

These Facts PROVE that HUTUWAI Tonic Gives
ķ
ĸ
w Completely Restored
to the Best of Health”
311 Murray RdL, PRESTON, VIC.
20th July, 1939.
Dear Sirs, —I was crippled with RHEUMATISM. My
nerves were affected, and I began to lose weight.
A friend of mine was good enough to advise me
to try Hutuwai. The result was amazing; I began to
sleep better, my nerves improved. The pain vanished.
lam completely restored to the best of health. There
are no signs of my former aches and pains.
—Yours faithfully, ROBERT HUMPHREYS.
HUTUWAI TONIC CONTAINS THE JUICE OF A VALUABLE HERBAL PLANT. This
plant has remarkable health-giving properties. HUTUWAI IS ALKALINE! Since
Hutuwai Tonic was first introduced to the Australian public thousands have written to
express their sincere thanks for the remarkable benefits they have received. Read and
consider the letters printed below . . . testimony such as this must give definite proof of
the marvellous health-restoring qualities of Hutuwai. Well, then, when there is Hutuwai
why suffer? The pain of Rheumatism, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Neuritis, Kidney Trouble,
Sciatica, Blood Pressure and Nerves makes you look old before your time . . . the agony
is registered in your face; your eyes lack sparkle, your step loses its briskness . . . you
lack enthusiasm . . . snap out of it! Break free from these age-giving, pleasure-robbing
bonds . . . benefit from the experience of others . . . drink Hutuwai. Health is Life!
:
MRS. S. W. TYLER.
Hutuwai is Health! Take Hutuwai . . . the tonic that
contains Herbal Plant Juices . . . and Live!
"All the Pain Has Gone”
BRISBANE, Q'LAND.
22nd August, 1939.
Dear Sirs, —My leg became very swollen, the pain was
very severe and distressing, and I could not put my foot
to the Boo**. One day 1 saw your advertisement for
Hutuwai Tonic, and immediately sent for a large bottle.
After having taken only eight bottles of Hutuwai
Tonic all the pain has gone, my leg is no longer swollen,
and I am able to walk without any assistance.
—Yours sincerely, (MRS.) S. W. TYLER.
Get rid
stiff joints
m
F
k
Gave Me New Life”
Annie St., DESHON,
WOOLLOONGABBA S 2,
BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
11th August, 1939.
Dear Sirs, —Your wonderful tonic, Hutuwai, has done
wonders for me. It has given my new life. I suffered
from Rheumatoid Arthritis and my hands, shoulders and
my legs, in fact, all my joints, were terribly swollen and
I suffered severe pain.
My friends had to lift me in and out of bed.
But thanks to Hutuwai Tonic my neighbors and
friends are astounded at the change. I am able to
walk about without assistance.
—Yours faithfully, (MRS.) L. SMOOTHEY.
•: :■ ■
m
m
m
ķ
"I Lost That Dreadful
Depressed Feeling ”
SURRY HILLS,
SYDNEY.
3rd March, 1939.
Dear Sirs,—I was told that all I could do was to build up my
health and overcome my NERVES; so I got a bottle of Hutuwai
and with that one bottle I began to improve. I was able to
eat and sleep, and I lost that dreadful depressed feeling.
Yours very gratefully,
(MRS.) E. LUCK.
PRONOUNCE
HOO-TOO-WY
LARGE BOTTLE 4/0
(Including Valuable DIET
CHART FREE.)
Also in 3/- size.
Sold and recommended by CHEMISTS and
STORES throughout Australia. If unob-
tainable locally, direct from Hutmvai
Distributing Co.. 210 George St., Sydney.
Postage 1/- extra per bottle.
,f M;y Joints Are
Now Free Again”
ST. IVES, N.S.W.
21st June, 1939.
Dear Sirs, —I was suddenly stricken with RHEU-
MATOID ARTHRITIS, which affected me so
badly that I was helpless, could neither walk nor
lift a cup to my lips.
After a course of this wonderful Hutuwai all
the pain has vanished and my joints, which have
been locked, are now free again. I am able to
walk quite well without any assistance at all. I
am deeply grateful to Hutuwai for the restoration
of my health.
—Yours very gratefully, A. HANSON.
31R. A. HANSON.
Read these letters, each a human document of
praise for the health-restoring qualities of Hutuwai.
*1
i
MRS. C. DAVIS.
"Hutuwai Worked
Wonders for Me”
“Florida,” Whithy St., SOUTHPORT, Q.
14th August, 1939.
Dear Sirs, —My nerves were in a dreadful
state; the children could do nothing right
and I was always at them, and 1 was ready
to cry at the least little thing.
I thought I would give Hutuwai a try.
It worked wonders for me. I now feel a
different woman.
I shall certainly recommend it to any*
one who is in need of a good nerve tonic.
Ypurs gratefully, (MRS.) C. DAVIS.
The Tonic that Contains Herbal Plant Juices
The Bulletin
Squandermania in N.S. W.
Vol. 60.—N0. 3113.
Wednesday, October 11, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
Freelance
Journalism
at HONE
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 239
“BATTLER’S” TALES OF EARLY
ROCKHAMPTON.
39 Chapters, 19 Photographs. Price 7/6.
May be had direct from the Author,
“The Sanctuary,” Rockhampton. Or
from K. M. Grant & Co., Commission
Agents. Rockhampton.
DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
"DRAMATISED" HISTORY.
Professor L. Schuman’s Europe on the
Eve (Hale; Angus and Robertson) is
nearly 600 pages of the shifts and moves
and double-dealing, assassinations and
brutalities of contemporary European
history, all gingered and pepped up by
a familiar technique. The literary style
is that of the film commentator ; the ap-
proach that of counsel for the prosecu-
tion.
The accused are leading statesmen of
all leading European countries, except
Russia. The charge is conspiracy over
the past decade to bring about the murder
of the creed of Liberalism and hasten
Europe’s “descent into night.” The active
plotting villains are the leaders of the
“Fascist Triplice”; French and British
statesmen are their passive accomplices.
Any pricks of conscience counsel may
have regarding his own U.S.A. are eased
in a few sentences of mild reproof, in
which the U.S.A. is allowed to be a sort
of accessory, but outside the conspiracy,
and, he has hopes, outside its contami-
nation. To the U.S.S.R. —that shining
stronghold of Liberalism —the role of
Caesar’s wife!
Professor Schuman makes the most of
his brief. His address is colored by
ideological bias; it is special pleading:
but it is extensive ; it goes with great
thoroughness into all the alleged acts,
motives and contributory crimes of the
accused. No doubt it is one of the glories
of democratic free speech that at the
present time an English publisher issues
a book in which a furious American says
of the leading statesman of Britain’s
ally:
By stupidity and cowardice he had be-
trayed the French Left. By stupidity and
cowardice he would later betray France
and Europe.
Translated from the cloudy language
of invective and abuse, that means that,
when France was at its lowest ebb of
’plane and other defence, Daladier had
declined to embark his country on one
of the sundry ideological wars urged by
preaching American demagogues, now
safely nootral.
In a preface written in January this
year, Professor Schuman mentions that
“in olden times the diplomatic historian
waited to tell all until the archives were
opened.” In times not so “olden” the
historian also preferred to deal with com-
pleted history, being canny about the pit-
falls in the way of the chronicler of his-
tory still in the making. Perhaps Pro-
fessor Schuman retains his high opinion
of the U.S.S.R. His savage hatred of
Nazi Germany might make that appear
improbable, but he presents the U.S.S.R.
in such a favorable light that maybe he
can reconcile the latest contribution of
that country to peace and Liberalism with
the grandiose vision he had of it last
January.
Even if he is equal to that—-others are
not finding it beyond them —he might
perhaps wish he could tone down, say,
this typical historical finding:
Since its economy is not contracting
but expanding, since its expansion is not a
product of robbery, conquest or prepara-
tion for war, the Soviet Union, for all its
dreams of a proletarian world, will never
in any presently visible future take the
sword against non-socialist States.
In his introduction Professor Schuman
says that, as a “social scientist,” he has
striven “in these pages for analysis, not
indictment. Sparing use is made of words
of praise or blame.” On his first page
he finds it not above the high credo of
a “social scientist” to hold physical de-
formity up to mockery and ridicule: “His
clubfoot and his dwarfish stature.... He
was lame, lop-eared, loose-mouthed.”
Goebbels, of course; and on that
account, shall we say, the Professor snig-
gering at the runt’s lameness is in a
different class from the yokels of olden
times laughing at the village
hunchback and halfwit?
Professor Schuman salts
all his villains like that; he
likes them pickled black.
Perhaps some day a literary
historian may find it of interest to inves-
tigate the present influence of Hollywood
about the shrine of Clio.
Ha Hi day's Holiday.
How to make a haggis and how to
keep a haggis in the home without giving
offence; how to trawl for herrings and
how to make a salt herring taste a little
less like seaweed.
How many children Flora MacDonald
had and how she broke her arm when
the Baliol, en route to America, was
attacked by a French privateer; how
Fionn of Barra married the Irish prin-
cess after she had murdered her father
and his principal followers; how an-
noyed Columba was when he opened
Odran’s grave three days after his burial
and Odran, still alive, announced “There
is no hell.”
How Mr. Taylor, an elder of the Free
Church of Prestonpans, had the second
sight and “saw” the train crash at the
Tay Bridge when he was driving in a
gig with the Rev. Patrick Mackay, D.D..
thirty miles away on the road to
Cockenzie ; and how Robert Kirk, M.A.,
walking about one evening in his night-
shirt, was taken by the fairies and may
be restored to earth at any time.
How Mr. McDoem wanted to charge
a solicitor £176 for three weeks’ grouse-
shooting on his moor; and how the
swans on Loch More punished a cob
who wanted to desert his injured mate by
wounding him so savagely that he
couldn’t fly away from her.
A few notes on tourist attractions, such
as Singing Sands and Standing Stones
and the Cave of Fingal; comments on
Stevenson’s best prose and Wordsworth’s
worst poetry; some irrelevancies about
tiger-shooting, Lapland and lunacy; and
then Halliday Sutherland has finished his
Hebridean Journey (Geoffrey Bles;
Angus and Robertson).
Though Sutherland travelled the West-
ern Highlands, Skye, Eigg, lona and the
Outer Hebrides, the book doesn’t get
anywhere in particular. Only when he
describes the herring fishers or touches
on unemployment amongst the crofters
has he any solid statement to make. In
his declared anxiety not to write a guide-
book he could almost, one feels, have
forgotten to write a book about the
Hebrides. He has failed to give any
clear picture of the Isles, but he has pro-
duced a very pleasant book, because his
mind, wherever it rambles, is alert and
humorous.
Three Celebrities.
One of those brisk Yankees who
write books on how to make a million
or how to be popular at parties could
concoct a complete recipe for becom-
ing a celebrity out of three recent auto-
biographies—Douglas Corrigan’s That's
My Story (Hale), Howard Spring’s
Heaven Lies About Us (Constable) and
John Gielgud’s Early Stages (Macmil-
lan ; all Angus and Robertson).
Corrigan leapt into fame with a spec-
tacular flight and a lie that amused the
world; Spring worked like a slave;
Gielgud had influence.
To be really front-page news it seems
a good idea to be born an American,
for Australian and Maoriland fliers,
though they have had their share of
publicity, have never had anything like
the paper snowstorm with which New
York greeted Corrigan when he came
back after flying the Atlantic, and none
of them could have taken fame so much
for granted as Corrigan does when, hav-
ing jumped up from complete obscurity,
he can write, “Mr. Cordell Hull, the
Secretary of State, received me at his
offices, as both the President and the
Vice-President were away from Washing-
ton that day.”
The long hop to Ireland is the last
chapter of That’s My Story; the earlier
portions are his mother’s and his own
struggle against poverty, odd jobs of all
sorts, a growing interest in aviation,
contacts with Lindbergh, a record-break-
ing nonstop flight across America which
was ignored, the determination to catch
the public’s eye with something really
spectacular.
It is all told simply and slangily in his
own language, and makes a book worth
reading on its own merits. His famous
fib —that he had set out from New York
to California and arrived in Ireland by
mistake —is typical of his engaging sense
of humor.
Gielgud’s book, though it will interest
those who know him as a distinguished
actor of Shakspeare, and though there
are notes on production that might be
valuable to amateur dramatic societies,
is disappointing. It has an extraordinary
likeness to Anton Dolin’s autobiography
which appeared last year, and shares with
it the disadvantages of solemnity, pre-
occupation with his personal successes
rather than with his art, reverence for
the names of celebrities instead of their
sayings and doings. Somebody should
warn these theatrical writers that Bernard
Shaw is news when he says something
funny, but not when he merely walks
into a room and walks out again.
Through his mother Gielgud is related
to the Terrys, and acting was in his
blood. He shares with Ellen Terry the
ability to shed real tears on the stage.
Early Stages takes him from the very early
stages of the toy theatre in the nursery,
through successes and failures in London
and the provinces, to triumph in the West
End in the great Shakspearean roles from
Hamlet to Lear. He has an informative
chapter on acting for the talkies —an
ordeal which he detests.
Of the three autobiographies, Howard
Spring’s is the least concerned with suc-
cess, and the only one that has any
literary value. He doesn’t even mention
the fact that he is one of London’s best-
known reviewers and critics. Like
Martin Armstrong in Victorian Child-
hood, he is recapturing the fears and de-
lights of boyhood, and the narrative stops
short when he sells his first story to a
magazine.
He recalls a poverty-stricken child-
hood, when he was never allowed to go
to the Other End of the street in which
they lived because the Other End stood
for hopeless squalor. His father was a
gardener, usually out of work, and when
he died the mother took in washing
and the boy, out of school hours, was
put to work for the greengrocer, the fish-
monger and the butcher in turn. But
the father was the type of gardener who
reads “Paradise Lost” to his family, and
Spring graduated from the tradesmen’s
carts to office work, and then, inevitably,
to newspaper offices.
He is able to look back on his child-
hood as a pleasant time in which the
incidents were abrupt and fantastic, and
the people gigantic and comic—Mr.
Hann, the confectioner, at whom a gang
of boys would screech
Hann, Hann,
Catch us if you can;
Mr. Flegg, the schoolmaster, who de-
manded instant immobility when he
blew his whistle in the playground and
was given literal obedience, all the pupils
freezing into the most grotesque atti-
tudes they could adopt; his first editor,
who greeted him with a thunderous
“Boy, how is it with your soul?” and
who used to ask the same embarrassing
question of his sub-editors at their desks
and of strangers in tramcars. A delight-
ful book, illustrated with some excellent
drawings by Gill-Lancaster,
Van Doren's "Franklin."
Attempting his big biography, Benja-
min Franklin (Putnam), Carl Van Doren
had considerable advantages over the
general run of biographers, and some
even over biographers of great men.
He had for his leading figure a great
and remarkable character; first in
science, letters and international reputa-
tion among Americans of his day, or of
any day; a lusty sage and most likeable
human being; a steady, curious, far-
sighted thinker and virile man of action ;
a more human and understanding Dr.
Johnson, possessing a searing satirical
wit which he employed effectively in
great causes, not for scoring over
nonentities.
America’s unofficial ambassador to
England when the first break between
those countries was lengthening and
widening out, and to France during the
War of Independence ; during his four
years in England an ardent empire-
builder in the face of insult, distrust and
discouragement, and, his effort there
failing, in France the leading figure
working against England in the Ameri-
cans’ struggle for independence ; printer
and cultural leader in backwoods Phila-
delphia ; colonel of his own militia
force against raiding Indians; trades-
man and statesman, Franklin stands in
this estimation as in many ways the
prototype of present American national
character
Van Doren had the added advantage
that Franklin was a voluminous,
vigorous and witty writer, and left such
complete accounts of his own doings
in journals, letters and numerous publi-
cations—that his biographer can mostly
watch over his hero’s shoulder and let
him tell his own story. Something like
half the 800 pages of close type must be
of Franklin’s own words. They alone
illuminate the work and make it live,
apart from the living character Van
Doren’s careful depiction re-creates.
One sample will show how that aids
the biographer. Making his satirical
suggestion that England, as a return for
the murderous criminals it was dumping
in the American colony, should accept
consignments of rattlesnakes, Franklin
pointed out how any damage the rattle-
snakes might do might be offset by their
good example:
May not the honest, rough British
gentry, by a familiarity with these reptiles,
learn' to creep and to insinuate and to
slaver and to wriggle into place (and per-
haps to poison such as stand in their
way): qualities of no small advantage to
courtiers.
In that style “Franklin sounded his
own earliest warning to the British Gov-
ernment of the colonies.” His subsequent
treatment in England, when he stood for
an hour or so at the inquiry into the
Massachusetts petition for recall of the
Governors, and kept his silence and his
temper in the face of a venomous and
vicious attack by counsel—one of those
abuses of Bar “privilege” which still
occasionally fill laymen with dread and
contempt —was a very thorough justifi-
cation of that early satire.
On the human side, which Van Doren’s
restrained writing brings out in full per-
spective, Franklin is seen as leading figure
of his Junto Club in Philadelphia, which
club of good citizenship and cultural in-
fluence he kept going for 30 years ; he
is seen inventing a stove; out flying his
specially-designed kite in a thunderstorm,
risking his life for his experiments in
electricity; getting up a lottery for the
building of a fort; continuing to wear
the quaint fur cap in which he landed
in France, because the French liked it,
despite that in it and spectacles he cut
an odd figure ; bringing up his illegitimate
son in his home, and, when his son pro-
duced the same sort of offspring, bring-
ing it up too. In his will he left his
ledgerful of business debts to a hospital
with the idea that those who had not
been impelled by their conscience to pay
him might be impelled by charitable feel-
ings to pay the hospital. They weren’t.
There seems to be no end to him as a
subject for a biography. His aphorisms,
sayings and maxims lighten up page after
page: “Fish and visitors smell in three
days” ; “None preaches better than the
ant, and she says nothing”; he said that
“Quacks” are the greatest liars in the
world, except their patients.” His bio-
graphy is also a master picture of two
worlds —the beginnings of the United
States, and England and France in the
time of Burke, Chatham, North and
George 111. He encountered nearly
all the great of the day, Boswell and
Johnson among them, and his own
life spread like a branching tree over
84 years.
Love in the Sun : Leo Walmsley (Col-
lins ; Angus and Robertson). Novel of
luv in a Cornish cottage. Fish and vege-
tables and creditors; then a successful
novel, £lOOO, and a child. Pleasant.
Nazi Nuggets: Clara Leiser (Gollancz).
Extract statements by Nazis or their
press employed to smite them. Consider-
ing the opportunity and object, it’s a
marvellous dull display of cheap tawdry.
It’s an Old Scottish Custom : Francis
Drake-Carnell (Peter Davies). Piping in
the haggis and other traditional customs
still practised in the Highlands.
The Music of Language: J. Campbell-
Mclnnes (Frederick Harris Co.). Brief
essay on the potentialities of speech, with
a few tips on elocution.
There Are Angels in Madrid:
Jonathan Davis (Hodder and Stoughton ;
Dymock’s). Novel on the life of Goya.
Genius, war, duchesses and the shadow
of Rafael Sabatini.
Pilate Pasha: Michael Fausset (Cape ;
Angus and Robertson). British rule in
the Sudan is rather cleverly compared
to Roman, rule over Palestine in this
novel. The British administrators play
polo and lay down the law until Gover-
nor (corresponding to Pontius Pilate) is
forced to execute a young Mahdi to pre-
vent a clash with orthodox Moham-
medans. It’s an interesting but unhappy
thought that the Roman officials —super-
ficially, at any rate —may have been the
Old School type that Fausset portrays.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act. . ''THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns’
Telegraphic Address:
“Hordernia”, Sydney
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
m
m
35/- DRESSING GOWNS AT
Weighty Art. Silk with satin back. Self figured
designs on Burgundy, Blue, Black, Bottle
Green and Dark Brown. Plain satin collar,
cuffs and pocket. Art. silk girdle to tone. 34
25/-
to 44 inch chest, Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 35/-
SPECIAL PRICE 25/.
\x
A
i
MG?/
x
£' as
r. £ *'/? <
me.
• 6 COAT
SHIRTS
76
British Poplin Coat Shirt
with collar attached, open
front. Blue and Grey strip-
ed designs. Size 14 to 17
inch. Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price, each 8/6
SPECIAL PRICE 7/6
10 6 Shir Is
Lounge Shirts in the new
slub weave with collar and
pocket attached and long
sleeves, button wrist. Blue,
Grey and Green effects
with pin flecks. 14? to 19
inch neck. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price,
each 10/6
SPECIAL PRICE 9/6
4 7 11 Sports
SHIRTS
For all outdoor sport—hik-
ing, boating or tennis—the
Chukka cellular Shirt is
ideal wear. Button looped
front or laced front in plain
colours: White, Grey, Saxe,
Light Green and Lemon.
Half sleeves. Small, med-
ium and OS. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price,
each 4/11
SPECIAL PRICE 4/6
Anthony Hordern & Sons Ltd.,
Sydney. - 'Phone: M 2401
*
w
u
■mmm.
55®
.4
¥
W’
READY TO WEAR SAC SUITS AT
Sixty-four fittings, so you can be sure of getting a perfect
fit. Smartly designed patterns in all wool Grey and Blue
worsted suiting. English styles, tailored by Anthony
Horderns' for 89/6
896
lightweight Alt Wool SPORTS COATS
Lightweight, airy and porous all wool worsteds . . . ideal
for Summer . . . tailored in two styles, belted action or
tailored backs. New shades this season: Maroon, Ox
Blood, London Tan, Lincoln Green, Atlantic Blue. At
Anthony Horderns'. Price, each 49/6
49/6
LIGHTWEIGHT SPORTS
TROUSERS
"Suregrip" self supporting waist, English cut, non-fray
seams, angle pockets, extended waist band, full cut. All
shades of Grey, Blue, Green and Fawn. Will match your
sports coat perfectly. At Anthony Horderns'. Price 24/6
2 l (i
3 6 HALF HOSE
Dependable Half Hose
in the new fancy cash-
mere. All the latest
check and jacquard
effects on Navy, Grey,
Fawn and Brown
grounds. 10 to 11| in.
Anthony Horderns'
Regular Price 3/6
SPECIAL PRICE ... 2/6
2/6
■
mm
mM


Mr. Slompack Slides Down the Bannisters
“THE FLOWERS THAT BOOM
IN THE SPRING”
BY HAROLD MERCER
DRAWINGS BY ARIA.
MY landlady held her finger in the air. “Spring!”
she said simply. Dimly from different direc-
tions I heard two doubtful sopranos, a con-
tralto, a tenor and a baritone lifting their
voices in song. The voices of amorous cats joined
the general symphony. The cry of a bottle-oh in the
street had a lilt in it.
“Everybody likes spring ; the time when, as the
poet says, the young man’s fancy slightly turns to
torture love,” said Mrs. Parsley. “But it’s a time
when landladies have to be very careful to see that
tenants don’t get into the wrong flats, and that hus-
bands don’t come looking for flats with other hus-
bands’ wives. Very upsetting it is to some people.
But the greatest surprise I ever got in my born life
was when Mr. Slompack went about singing ‘The
Flowers That Boom in the Spring, ha, ha’; and
one morning he came sliding down the banisters.”
“Mr. Slompack!” I exclaimed.
“Mr. Slompack,” repeated Mrs. Parsley solemnly.
“Of course Mr. Slompack is scarcely human like
other men, as the saying is ; but if it hadn’t been for
what he had said to me I am sure I would never have
expected him of the detention of getting married. It
was one day when I made a remark about him seem-
ing all different that he said that about the tidal wave
in the affairs of men which being nipped in the bud
makes his fortune.
“ ‘l’m making a big venture, Mrs. Parsley,’ he
says. ‘l’ve had a finger in many other people’s pies
and they’ve come off well. Now I’m going to have a
venture of my own.’
“ ‘Thinking of getting married, Mr. Slompack! ’
I exclaimed, all took aback.
“ ‘You’ll know all about it in a little while, Mrs.
Parsley,’ he laughs.
“Heaven knows I’m not one to talk about my
tenants’ affairs ; so it must have been that Mr. Slom-
pack told other people ; in a little time it seemed all
over the flats that Mr. Slompack was thinking of get-
ting married. Such excitement there was among the
women ; and among the men, too, for that matter.
Especially when he started to sing about them flowers
that boom and slide down the stairs. ‘Spring!’ he
says. ‘lt’s good to be alive a morning like this.’
“ ‘Too right it is,’ says Mr. Horssey, with a grin ;
and Mr. Slompack had hardly been gone down the
stairs and out before he says: ‘l’m laying two to one
the young filly, four to one either of the mares, six to
one no marriage and name your own ticket Miss
Perry.’
< i I T seemed most shocking to me to make bets on a
* scared subject, as they call it, like marriage ; but
I gave him ten shillings to go on little Miss Puffinbeck,
which he called the young filly. Mr. Horssey, who
had taken Number 17, was dissociated with the Turf,
as he called it, and he was ready to bet on anything.
As a lot of the other tenants had bets with him about
Mr. Slompack getting married, I thought I might as
well have an interest.
“ ‘I think,’ says Mrs. Wassail, sedimentally, ‘that
it ought to be Mrs. Puffinbeck he will marry. She
may not have youth on her side, but he belongs to
her in a sort of way. I’ll have another ten shillings
on Mrs. Puffinbeck.’
“Mrs. Puffinbeck coming to the flats had helped
all those aromas about Mr. Slompack. She hadn’t
been there more than a couple of hours before she
met him on the stairs.
“ ‘Why, Slommy! ” she cries, just as if her voice
was on the high seas, as the saying is. ‘Slommy!
Dear old Slommy! Who ever would have thought of
seeing you here?’
“Which all I can say is, if she hadn’t seen him
she might have been more surprised, for when she
had come looking at the flat, which she did twice
before taking it, she’d asked me both times if Mr.
Tom Slompack was staying here. There is a lot of
publicity, as they call it, about some women, and that
surprise was pure affection on her part. I must say
she did it very well; but Mr. Slompack was certainly
flappergasted.
“ ‘Don’t be ungallows enough to say you don’t
know me, Slommy dear,’ she says. ‘l’m not changed
as much as all that, am I?’
“ ‘Why of course you’re not, Kath; but it’s
astonishing to meet you,’ says Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘Why don’t you call me “Kitten” as you used
to, Slommy dear?’ she says.
“Which if ever he had called her ‘Kitten,’ I thinks
to myself, she must have grown a great deal since
then. But he might have, because from what they
said he had been her sweetheart in the years that the
moss has beaten, as the poet says, but she had mar-
ried someone else.
“ ‘Joe was always very good to me,’ she sighed,
‘but sometimes I wondered whether I made a mis-
take. You know I was always very fond of you,
Slommy. I often approached myself for having ruined
your life.’
“‘Oh, don’t worry over that, Kath,’ he says,
quick-like. Which if ever there was a man who didn’t
look as if his life was ruined, it was Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘But you never married,’ she whispers, all in
a kind of thrill. ‘Never mind, Slommy, we will be
able to see a lot of one another now, and make up
for lost time. Even to-night, perhaps, we might go
somewhere’
“ ‘Oh, I’m sorry, Kath,’ he says, ‘but I deranged
to go out to-night with —well, with Mrs. Towerbee, as
a matter of fact. And I wish you wouldn’t call me
Slommy.’
“It went like wildflowers all over the flats that
Mr. Slompack’s boyhood sweetheart had come to stay
in the flats ; and all them women was saying to one
another that if Mr. Slompack was intendering to get
married naturally he’d marry his old sweetheart. But
all them tittle-tattlers didn’t know what I did, that
that derangement with Mrs. Towerbee, which it had
surprised me to hear him mention it, had only been
an excuse to get away from that Mrs. Puffinbeck. For,
happening to be in the corridor, I heard Mr. Slom-
pack tap at the door of Mrs. Towerbee’s flat and ask
her if she’d care to go out to a theatre that night.
“It must have been a surprise to Mrs. Towerbee,
who hadn’t had much success up to then in getting
Mr. Slompack to take notice of her, though I must
say she tried ; proud as a peacock she looked as she
sailed out with him past the lounge, where a lot of the
tenants were. Little did Mr. Slompack know of the
implications that were depending ; for that night a
man came looking for Mrs. Towerbee.
“ ‘He wouldn’t give his name,’ I told them when
they came in, ‘but he’s just gone up to your flat, Mrs.
Towerbee.’
“Mrs. Towerbee went as pale as a damn mask,
as the saying is, though, myself, I think it a vulgar
phase.
“ ‘lt must be my ex-husband ; although I divorced
him, he still pesters me. I’m afraid he may make a
disturbance if I meet him. He still loves me, I think,
poor chap,’ says Mrs. Towerbee, smiling at Mr.
Slompack.
“‘Naturally; how could he help it?’ says Mr.
Slompack; and no one could say there was anything
ungallows about the way he said it.
“‘I wonder if we could go up to your flat until
he leaves?’ says Mrs. Towerbee, bold as them brass-
tacks. ‘Mrs. Parsley could tell him that I rang up to
say I was staying with friends; then he’ll go away.
I’m sure Mrs. Parsley won’t mind —will you, Mrs.
Parsley?’
“‘I daresay we’ll be able to hunt up a little
supper,’ says Mr. Slompack.
‘“My husband,’ I heard Mrs. Towerbee say as
they went upstairs, ‘says that if ever I marry again
he’ll shoot the man I marry.’
“After hearing that, which it gave me a shock,
I was very glad to get rid of Mr. Towerbee by telling
him his wife wasn’t going to be home.
uTHE flats, which got to know all about Mrs.
1 Towerbee having had supper in Mr. Slompack’s
flat, was inclined to back her against Mrs. Puffinbeck
on account of her looks, except those who was full
of sediment, which thought Mrs. Puffinbeck having
been his old sweetheart would tell in the long run
which has no turning. That’s when that Mr. Horssey,
which had only just come, started making those bets.
“And then there was that Miss Ruby Puffinbeck,
who was Mrs. Puffinbeck’s daughter and was not at all
affectioned like her mother. She was taking a domestic
silence course at a tactical college, so her mother had
told me ; and a very good thing it seemed to me for
any woman to take. The married couples Ive known
in these flats would be much better off if the wives
had taken one. It was the day after he d met his old
sweetheart that Mr. Slompack saw the daughter, too ,
and very depressed he seemed by her. And, I expect,
too, about hearing about the domestic silence course,
because Mr. Slompack knew as much about married
couples as myself almost, having been here a long
time. Experience does it, as they say.
“ ‘Why, Ruby can come with us to those pic-
tures to-night,’ says Mr. Slompack. Which it seemed
to me that he was glad of the thought, not being able
to get out of taking Mrs. Puffinbeck somewhere.
' “It’s good of you, Mr. Slompack ; but I’m sorry.
I’ve got an appointment,’ says Miss Ruby, and she
adds, just as if she was defiling her, when her mother
looks at her: ‘With Roy.’
“ ‘So you’ve let him know we’ve come here?’ says
Mrs. Puffinbeck, quite raffled. ‘I told you not to! I
told you you had to drop that young man.’ She
turned to Mr. Slompack. ‘lt’s absurd Ruby having a
boy hanging round at her age. Only seventeen.
“ ‘Oh, mother!’ says Miss Ruby.
“ ‘Oh course she is a big girl for her age; but
that’s all she is,’ says Mrs. Puffinbeck, hurried-like.
“And even if she was old enough to have a sweet-
heart, this Mr. Taylor hasn’t got any money, not even
a certain job.’
66 ‘lf he’s young, you never know how far he 11
go,’ says Mr. Slompack.
“That Mrs. Puffinbeck seemed to think shed
made a mistake in cactus, as they call it, for she
put her hand on his arm and looked coy.
“ ‘But he isn’t like you were when you were a
boy, Slommy,’ she says. ‘Everybody knew you would
get on. Don’t think I think money is everything,
but’
“ ‘Perhaps you could get this Roy to be my guest
to-night, too,’ says Mr. Slompack, like a drowning
man clutching at his straw hat, as they say in them
novels. But Mr. Slompack had to take Mrs. Puffinbeck
by herself that night, because it appeared there was
a previous derangement and Mrs. Puffinbeck was even
ready to let Miss Ruby go with her boy friend rather
than have her with them.
“Which it seemed to me that all Mr. Slompack
took Mrs. Towerbee out for was to have an excuse
for avoiding taking Mrs. Puffinbeck out sometimes;
and he had to take her out now and then, them
having been old sweethearts. Sometimes that Miss
Ruby went with them, too, but mostly she seemed to
be waiting for Mr. Taylor, which very nice it was to
see them together, though you could hear them talk-
ing hopelessly about Mrs. Puffinbeck not being a
dissenting party.
“Them women made it a swelter ; they knitted
ties for Mr. Slompack and socks and sweaters which
he didn’t wear; and they kept cooking little things
for him and asking him to have dinner in their flats.
One was always trying to get ahead of the other.
«< nr HERE was Mr. Slompack taking ladies out to
1 shows and parties nearly every night, which had
never been like him ; and he seemed a different man
altogether. He even asked both those women to go
out with him on some nights and brought another
man, Mr. Pogglewoggle, to make up four. A very
careworn-looking man Mr. Pogglewoggle was; and I
heard him ask Mrs. Puffinbeck if she was fond of
children. It seemed a strange thing to me for a man
to ask a woman when he’d hardly been introduced to
her. A most improperganda remark.
“Though I knew why Mr. Slompack had started
taking them women out, it looked to me as if they
had wore him down when Mr. Slompack went about
looking excited and happy and started singing that
about the flowers that boom in the spring.
“ ‘The women say the wedding-bells are going to
ring for you, Tom,’ says Mr. Wassail one morning.
‘You ought to let your pals know.’
“ ‘For me?’ cries Mr. Slompack. ‘I haven’t gone
mad yet—not quite.’
“Mrs. Wassail said that only proved it, because
men always said they weren’t going to get married
when they were. ‘Besides,’ she says, ‘didn’t he tell
you in an unguarded moment that he was going to
make the venture? Only, now, he’s fallen genuinely
in love; that’s what makes him so happy. And of


course it’s his boyhood sweetheart having come back
again, after all these years. He couldn’t help but
feel the survival of love, meeting her again!’
“It seemed to me she was right, at least except
about Mrs. Puffinbeck, which that woman seemed so
arty fishy to me, and she wasn’t nearly as good-looking
as Mrs. Towerbee. It made me quite scared when that
Mr. Towerbee, which she said was going to shoot her
husband, kept coming again.
“ ‘She seems to be avoiding me. Tell her I’ve got
to see her,’ he says, impatient-like.
“Mrs. Towerbee was with Mr. Slompack when I
told her about it.
“ ‘lt’s comforting to me,’ she says, looking up at
him as if she thought he was a sort of Horatius who
played bridge while Rome was burning, ‘to know I’ve
got a friend who will stand by me.’
“ ‘Why, of course,’ says Mr. Slompack. ‘He won’t
molest you while I am with you.’
“It made me quite upset to think that Mr. Slom-
pack, who had been such a good tenant, might be
shot, even if he meant to leave the establishment if he
got married. And to me it seemed plain that it must
be Mrs. Towerbee ; when all them bets were being
made I almost felt inclined to have a few shillings on
her. For one thing I didn’t think that he would like
the way that Mrs. Puffinbeck ordered that Mr. Taylor
out of the flats and not to see her daughter any more,
in spite of Miss Ruby being all in tears and defiling
her, too.
“ A ND then came implications. Miss Perry, who,
when first those aromas started about Mr. Slom-
pack intendering to get married, had turned out in a
new outfit, all girlish, mutton done up like lamb, as
Mrs. Wassail said, which she added that she must be
an opdermatist, had said it was scandalacious the way
Mrs. Puffinbeck and Mrs. Towerbee was setting their
caps at Mr. Slompack ; but she was more indigent
when she came home from town full of the news
how she had seen Miss Ruby and Mr. Slompack in a
tearoom.
“ ‘Scandalacious I call it! ’ she says. ‘There they
were sitting in a corner, screened by palms, him strok-
ing her hand. A man of his age with a girl like that —
even if it is ridiculous her mother saying she’s only
seventeen! ’
“There was some indigent meetings among the
women over that. And there was Mr. Slompack going
along the passages in the morning singing ‘The Flowers
That Boom in the Spring, ha, ha,’ as if he had the
pure heart that never reduces ; and Miss Ruby ran
down the stairs laughing as if she hadn’t been shed-
ding tears over that Mr. Roy Taylor, which hadn’t
been near the flats again, only a couple of days before.
“Not that them other women believed all that
Miss Perry said, when they talked it over. ‘lt’s only
natural that a man wants to be friendly with the girl
who’s going to be his stepdaughter,’ says Mrs. Wassail;
though there was others who said there was no fool
like an old fool, and they wouldn’t be surprised if Mr.
Slompack took to Miss Ruby despite the asperity in
their age ; which that was men all over, and it would
serve him right. And Mr. Horssey started making
them bets over Miss Ruby. But I wouldn’t have be-
lieved it myself if it hadn’t been for what I saw with
my own eyes.
“I was going to go upstairs when there was Mr.
Slompack and Miss Ruby at the top of the stairs,
having just come in.
“ ‘Well, you run along, dear,’ he says. ‘Don’t let
your mother know anything.’
“ ‘Oh, I won’t!’ she laughs, and she looks up at
him, leaning quite close. ‘Oh, Mr. Slompack, I think
you’re just wonderful!’
“And then she just throws her arms round his
neck and kisses him ; and away she runs laughing.
“It gave me a shock, I tell you. Playing up to a
man like Mr. Slompack like that; which, of course,
every man likes to be told he is wonderful by a young
woman, especially if he isn’t a young man ; but I
didn’t suspect it in a girl like Miss Ruby. Which it
seemed to me, after all, she was just as arty fishy as
her mother, willing to forget her Mr. Taylor if she
could get a man well-to-do like Mr. Slompack, who,
although he said he was a broker, was never broke.
Even if she wanted revenge by cutting out her mother
it didn’t make it any better.
“Shocked as I was, and very sorry that Mr. Slom-
pack should make a fool of himself, that's why I had
that ten-shillings bet on the young filly when Mr.
Slompack in the morning went about singing about
them flowers that boom more joyful than ever, just as
if he was in the seven havens of the right, and com-
ing sliding down the bannisters.
“The whole flats were on the tipcat of excite-
ment, although I didn’t tell anybody of what I had
seen. And when Mr. Slompack spoke to me later in
the day I felt quite a relief in the attention.
“ ‘l’m going away for three or four days,’ he said,
quiet-like, though I couldn’t help noticing that he was
all ablaze with excitement and happiness. Little did
I expect what was going to happen.
“IF seemed that the whole place was buzzing with
* excitement next day. Women came to me asking
what had happened.
“ ‘What has happened?’ I asked.
“ ‘Why, Mr. Slompack has gone,’ says Miss Perry.
“‘I know that; he’ll be back in a few days,’ I
says.
“ ‘And Miss Puffinbeck hasn’t been about for a
day,’ says Mrs. Wassail. ‘I call it a shameful disgrace
if he’s gone off with a girl like that —him who was
her mother’s sweetheart.’
“ ‘But Mrs. Towerbee has gone, too,’ says Miss
Perry. “There’s a note been on her door all day—it
was there yesterday —saying she’ll be back in a few
days.’
“Everybody seemed spelling-bound, wondering
which it was Mr. Slompack had married, and making
all sorts of spectacles about it, when Mrs. Puffinbeck
came poundering down them stairs as if she wanted
to break them down.
“ ‘l’m paid up to date. I’m leaving, Mrs. Parsley,’
she says, as if she’d like a row with me if a word was
said as long as if it was with someone. ‘At once. I’m
goin’ to Melbourne.’
“I couldn’t recover my breath to tell her that a
week’s notice was usual; and the way she looked
everyone got away and nobody asked her any ques-
tions. In half an hour she was gone, with all her lug-
gage. The whole place was teething with excitement,
and tenants had gathered round in the lounge asking
me if I knew which it was, Miss Ruby or Mrs. Tower-
bee, Mr. Slompack had married, which I wasn’t able
to tell them, when that Mr. Towerbee came in.
“ ‘Where’s she gone?’ he asked when I told him
about Mrs. Towerbee being absent.
“ ‘Nobody knows ; we think she’s gone to get mar-
ried,’ says Miss Perry.
“He seemed to jump in the air: there was them
emblazoned fires in his eyes. ‘Aha! My time has
come!’ he cries. And he went.
“And that Mr. Horssey was gone too. Which I
found that out when I went up to his flat, thinking
that if the bad news came through that Mr. Slom-
pack had married Miss Ruby I could collect my
money anyway. But there was the flat with the door
wide open, and not a thing of his left in it. And he
owed a week’s rent, too!
“ ‘A man’s a mug to have bet with a man like
that,’ says the Major. ‘Only yesterday he collected
another five bob from me to put on Mrs. Towerbee.
If Slompack has married her that’s six quid the cow
owes me.
“We was all up in the ear, as the saying goes.
There was even arguments which was nearly fights
about whether it would be Mrs. Towerbee or Miss
Ruby Mr. Slompack had married. But nobody could
say for certain, and everybody was on the horns of
a tenterhook wanting to know, although as the time
passed it seemed we never would until Mr. Slompack
came back —if he did come back.
“And then, just as our curiosity was giving way
to that painted assignation, there was a noise on the
stairs, which I went out to see what it was about, and
the first man I saw was Mr. Wassail, though a lot
of people seemed to be coming up the stairs after him.
“ ‘Here’s the probable, Mrs. Parsley! ’ calls out
Mr. Wassail.
“And there was Mr. Slompack, looking as if he’d
been drinking, and all excited. I heard him say ‘And
I made a clear five thousand pounds.’
“Then my heart stood in my mouth ; for there,
coming up at the back, was that Mr. Towerbee. He
went straight towards Mr. Slompack. I was going to
screech, when he held out his hand, quite friendly.
“ ‘Mr. Slompack?’ he said. ‘My name’s Towerbee.
I want to thank you.’
“ ‘Thank me?’ says Mr. Slompack all took aback.
‘“Too right!’ says Mr. Towerbee. ‘You intro-
duced my former wife to Mr. Pogglewoggle, I under-
stand.’
“ ‘Yes ; poor old Pogglewoggle was a widower
with six children who’d had a bad time with house-
keepers and wanted a wife,’ says Mr. Slompack, which
it discounted for that question about children that had
shocked me. ‘Mrs. Towerbee was willing to marry
him. You don’t want to shoot the poor fellow.’
“ ‘Shoot him! ’ shouts Mr. Towerbee. ‘l’ll thank
him! My wife promised me, when I let her have a
divorce, that she wouldn’t want my alimony for more
than six months; and just when I’d been trying to
get to her, to tell her she hadn’t played the game, I
got the good news that she was married. I felt I had
to thank you. No more alimony to be paid! It’s
a relief!’
“Well, I never did! So that fixed Mrs. Tower-
bee, which married to that six children she was, after
putting over that tale about her ex-husband being so
sorry to get rid of her. There’s no end to the
publicity of some women.
“‘Where’s the bride?’ I asks Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘Bride?’ he asks, looking blank. Then he
laughs. ‘Oh, you’re thinking of all the silly tales they
put about. I’m not married.’
“‘But you were so happy!’ I stammered. ‘And
taking those women about.’
“ ‘Wouldn’t you be, Mrs. Parsley?’ he says. ‘l’ve
done a lot of investering for other people. I decided
to have a venture of my own —I think I told you. I
got some shares down to a bob each which I
had a tip would come right. When they started to
move up, 1 was excited, I admit. I was glad of a
little perversion ; taking those women about. Those
shares went up and up. I sold at thirty-five shillings
each. I’ve made five thousand pounds, Mrs. Parsley!
Wouldn’t you be happy?’
“Naturally I was dumpfoundered. So it all turned
out to be them silly women making out that a man
had to be going to be married just because he was
happy and excited making a lot of money! It’s like
women, when you come to think of it; full of silly
sediment.
“ ‘But Miss Puffinbeck’ I says.
“ ‘She’s Mrs. Roy Taylor now,’ he says. ‘Mak-
ing money like that, I felt I ought to do something
for the young people. I got Roy a good job with a
firm in Melbourne. Of course there was trouble over
Mrs. Puffinbeck’s consent to the marriage, as she said
Ruby was only seventeen ; but I knew Mrs. Puffin-
beck some time ago and I felt she was more than that,
though she’d even made Ruby think she wasn’t. I
had a search made for the birth certificate, which
showed Ruby was just twenty-one’
“ ‘Well, Mrs. Wassail said that it was a shame
that Mr. Slompack didn’t marry his old sweetheart;
but, myself, I’ve no time for them arty fishy women.
Why, anyway, have women to be so deceitful about
their ages? Now I don’t care who knows my age.
I’m forty-nine and proud of it.”
“Of course, Mrs. Parsley,” I said' tactfully. I
shouldn’t say that Mrs. Parsley is more than sixty
anyway.
“I think,” said Mrs. Parsley reflectively, as she
gathered her brooms, “that that Mr. Wattlegrin is in
love. I hear him singing in his bath every morning.”
Which shows that experience doesn’t shake even
our Mrs. Parsleys from their “sediment.”
“ ‘Sitting in a corner, screened
by palms, him stroking her
hand.’ There was some indigent
meetings among the women over
that.”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
j 4 tfblt Him ofWie jnellmricdJ-ajidXvuq/ud
John Milton’s Statue.
Within the venerable walls of St.
Giles’ Church, Cripplegate, repose the
remains of one of the greatest orna-
ments of the race —John Milton, who in
majesty of diction, alike in prose and
verse, as well as in strenuousness of
moral effort, is unrivalled among
English writers. Few visitors to London,
from English-speaking lands especially,
fail to make a pilgrimage to the tomb
of Milton. Visitors from non-English-
speaking countries likewise take the
same journey, for this great man, “the
glory of the race” once designated, be-
longed, as he still belongs, to the world.
Dr. Knight, writing more than a century
ago in his “Life of Dean Colet,” speaking
of Milton among the scholars at St.
Paul’s School, observed that “none of
our poets were so well known abroad as
he ; so that before the Fire, in 1666, the
very house in Bread Street where he
was born was frequently, out of curi-
osity, visited by foreigners, of whom he
was held in the highest admiration.”
Within a stone’s-throw of the Bank of
England the Church of St. Giles is easily
found. It is said to have been built by
Alfune, Bishop of London, about 1030,
and, though demolished by fire in 1545,
its successor escaped the ordeal of the
Great Fire of 1666. Built of stone,
boulder and brick, it is spacious. Pillars,
arches and windows are of the modern
Gothic order. In 1791 the roof of the
church was raised, and, though the
architecture disagrees with the lower
part of the building, the result is
not displeasing. Many eminent persons
here find sepulture, none, of course,
possessing “the glory which is immortal”
of the “blind bard.” On the front of
the north gallery, under a fine head, may
be read on a tablet:
John Milton,
Author of Paradise Lost.
His father, John Milton, died March,
1646.
They were both interred in this Church.
In the Church register may also be
read that on August 20, 1620, Oliver
Cromwell was married to Elizabeth
Boucher.


INTO BATTLE.
“Opening the debate on neutrality, and urging repeal of the arms embargo, Senator Pittman said ‘There is now no cause for fear that we shall be drawn in by a brutal
widening of the conflict. We must be careful not to obstruct our exports any further. Further obstructions would bankrupt large sections of our people.”
“In you go, John, and save our democratic institooshuns! You kin see how I’m fixed; but you’re welcome to anything you like, c.o.d. Noo Yark.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Tus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 7 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly; 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inier-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months. 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
WHAT CAME BEFORE NOOTRALITY.
Two arguments stood out in the United States Senate
neutrality debate, both bottomed on cash: (a) If the
embargo on the export of arms was not repealed (on
a strictly come-and-get-it basis), Uncle Sam would go
broke ; ( b ) if the embargo was lifted, Uncle Sam
would be bilked. The first argument was advanced
by Senator Pittman, for the Administration, in favor
of repeal; the second by Senator Borah, in favor of
retention of the embargo.
Highfalutin sentiments were notably absent from
the debate. There was a remarkable paucity of moral
preachment. It was not always so. Hurling abuse
and invective at the “aggressor dictatorships” from a
pulpit of morals has been a staple of American utter-
ance from the highest to the lowest places for years
past. Two years back John S. Steele, of the Chicago
“Tribune,” pointed out in London “Times” that “oppo-
sition to the dictators is far more vocal and violent in
America than in England.” The President himself
gave the lead to that “opposition” in his quarantine
speech, delivered in the “Tribune’s” home town in
October, 1937.
The President declared that there was no escape
for the United States through mere isolation or
neutrality; the “peace-loving nations must make a
concerted effort” to quarantine and stop the
aggressors. Recalling the speech, the “Saturday
Evening Post” said in May this year:
Continuously thereafter the Roosevelt Administration,
seized every opportunity to implant hatred of foreign
nations where more than enough was seeding itself, and
to propagate the thought that, if Great Britain and
France were attacked, we should have to take part to
save democracy in the world, because American destiny,
too, would be involved.
Early in 1938 the world was being told that “com-
pulsions and pressures of events in the outer world”
were steadily bringing American public opinion into
line with the foreign policy enunciated by the President
and Secretary Hull. Mr. Hull was on the air in
March that year in what was served up in all leading
Australian dailies as “one of the most statesmanlike
utterances ever made by any Secretary of State”:
The momentous question is whether the doctrine of
force shall become enthroned again, or whether this
and other peaceful nations, fervently attached to the
principles which underlie international order, shall work
unceasingly to promote and preserve law, order,
morality and justice as unshakable bases of civilised
international relations.
What was at stake was “the future of fundamental
order as opposed to international anarchy.”
We want to live in a world in which the forces of
militarism, territorial aggression and international
anarchy in general will become utterly odious, revolting
and intolerable to the conscience of mankind To that
end we will continue to give full and sincere adherence
to the fundamental principles which underlie inter-
national order.
Again in June, 1938, Mr. Hull waded into those
responsible for “the use of armed force assuming an
aspect of scarcely imaginable brutality,” and declared
that Uncle Sam was prepared to join other nations in
good works. On the home front he attacked those
who would have the U.S.A. “seek safety and security
in a hermit-like existence among the nations of the
world.”' He told them that “the chances that inter-
national anarchy and lawlessness would be replaced
by order under law” would depend on the sincerity
and firmness with which some nations faced that issue ;
he wished for the United States “no more glorious
course than to be a leader in devotion to these prin-
ciples.”
President Roosevelt again took up the stoking to
tell Germany that the attacks on the Jews, after the
Paris assassination, produced “a profound reaction
among American people” ; he could “scarcely believe
that such things could occur in a twentieth-century
civilisation” ; he had “asked the Ambassador in Berlin
to return at once for report and consultation.” Mr.
Kennedy, the Ambassador in London, joined in:—
Germany’s anti-Jewish campaign is terrible, the most
terrible thing I ever heard of. In saying this I am only
sharing the sentiments of our President. Oh, how I
would like to say a lot more!
In Washington, Ickes, the Secretary for the
Interior, took up the shovel. Naming Ford and Lind-
bergh as having accepted German decorations, Mr.
Ickes demanded:
How can they pretend, in accepting shabby baubles
from a brutal dictator, that they are honoring a great
people whom the dictator has victimised and degraded?
When Germany protested, the Department of State
“emphatically rejected the protest”; Mr. Roosevelt
“dramatised his agreement with Mr. Ickes’s senti-
ments” by calling on Mr. and Mrs. Ickes; Mr.
Welles, as Acting Secretary of State, declared that
“recent policy pursued by Germany” had “shocked and
confounded public opinion in the United States more
profoundly than anything for the past decade.”
The year 1938 ended with Uncle Sam bristling
with all his whiskers up. Four days into the new
year, the President was at it again, harder than ever,
giving out what was hailed as “the straightest warn-
ing ever delivered by a President to other nations.”
The defence of religion, democracy and good faith
among nations is all the same fight. We must make up
our minds to save all. We no more than other nations
can afford to be surrounded by the enemies of our
faith and of our humanity. We have learned that
the God-fearing democracies of the world who observe
the sanctity of treaties and good faith in dealings with
other nations cannot safely be indifferent to international
lawlessness anywhere. Ihey cannot for ever let pass
without effective protest acts of aggression against sister-
nations, acts which automatically undermine us all.
- Words may be futile, but war is not the only means
of commanding a decent respect for the opinions of
mankind. There are many methods short of war, but
stronger and more effective than mere words, of bring-
ing home to aggressor Governments the aggregate senti-
ments of our people.
That sounded like, and was widely accepted as, a
specific promise on behalf of Uncle Sam. “There
comes a time in the affairs of men,” the President
thundered, “when they must prepare to defend not
only their homes, but the tenets of faith and humanity
whereon their churches, their government and their
very civilisation are founded.” Senator Pittman took
up the burden, to the effect that it was Uncle Sam’s
part to “aid the democracies in their fight against
these dictators.” Next hand at the shovel was Mr.
Stimson, a former Secretary of State, urging joint
naval action by the United States with Great Britain
and France “in the event of aggression by the Fascist
Powers on either of the two European democracies,”
the contribution being described by Mr. Hull as “a
very constructive statement.”
Then, in April this year, came Mr. Roosevelt’s
message, spoken “with the voice of strength and friend-
ship for mankind”: “in making this statement we as
Americans speak not from selfishness or fear or weak-
ness.” He asked Hitler and Mussolini if they were will-
ing to give “assurance that your armed forces will not
attack or invade the territory or possessions of the fol-
lowing independent nations,” naming 31—among them
Poland. He suggested a 10-years non-aggression agree-
ment, or quarter of a century if the dictators were
feeling extra amenable to Uncle Sam’s “warnings.”
Hitler wasn’t; whereupon the American attitude
became more hostile than ever. As recently as Sep-
tember 5, Erwin D. Canham was writing from Wash-
ington to London “Spectator”:
From Councils of State down to the man in the
street, emotions are precisely the same: “Hitler must be
stopped.”
No doubt he must. And how? The Washington
“News” put it this way:
Democracy must be upheld even to the last drop
of British and French blood, but do not ask us to
shed any. Let them splash themselves all over the
battlefields to make this a better world for us to live in.
In the meantime the New York correspondent of
London “Times” reports that “THE UNITED
STATES IS PREPARING ON A GREAT SCALE
FOR THE effective maintenance of its neutrality.”
Squandermania in N.S.W.
Mr. Mair, the N.S.W. Premier “without portfolio,”
who is bleeding State taxpayers for another £440,000
a month to maintain provincial expenditure on a
riotous scale, has been delivered of an Idea. The idea
is that there should be another conference of Pre-
miers—the second since the outbreak of war —not
to beg for loans this time, but to concert a plan
“whereby Australia and its various Governments could
act as one.”
It is only by a single effort that the Commonwealth
can win against the brutality of Hitler By the
elimination of division between State and Federal
authorities Australia can show the British Empire and
the world that it is one.
Everybody who knows what happens at Pre-
miers’ conferences can vision what kind of co-opera-
tion would result. And any bellman could think up a
better idea. One is that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment should appoint the State Auditors-General by
national-emergency regulation to go through the State
Governments’ estimates item by item, strike out those
which they consider superfluous and cut down those
which are demonstrably extravagant—in short, arm
them with powers to stop scandalous waste of the
citizens’ money and thus assist the nation’s war effort.
Hitherto the useful reports of these officers have in-
variably been ignored by the “Parliaments” to which
they are annually addressed.
A start should be made with N. S. Wales. Open-
ing the of Budget papers in which details of
the annual grab-and-squander are given, the investi-
gator could find examples of prodigal expenditure on
almost every page.
There is, for example, a Taxation Department
which had a staff of 764, now —when economy is the
watchword in every private business —to be increased
to 783. There is a State motor garage which is to
cost £25,201 and which has a salary list of £9163 —
£606 for a manager and £409 for an accountant, plus
wages for 38 employees outside. There is a Statis-
tician’s Department, with £13,000 to be provided for
salaries, plus provision for an economic adviser, plus
“honorariums” for professors at heavily-subsidised
universities —£167 for Professor Mills, £5O for Pro-
fessor Roberts and £122 for Professor Copland.
Reading on, the financial watchdog will come
across instances of departments treating themselves to
war-time luxuries such as “air-conditioning” of the
State lottery office for the benefit of its staff of 214.
That is to cost £270, but it is a trifle beside the £57,000
set aside to provide “conveyance without charge of
M.Ps., distinguished visitors and others.” From such
items, it is an easy progression to the Police Depart-
ment’s £260-a-week telephone bill, the £3OO p.a. for
Mr. Piddington, who also gets £2OO p.a. from Can-
berra, and the tomfool waste on the Theatres and
Films Commission.
That show has a chairman at £5OO p.a. —he is an
accountant in private life —and two other commis-
sioners sharing £7OO p.a. There is a secretary who gets
£6l6 —he was brought back from the London office
at a cost of £690 —with a typist at £2 10s. a week to
do the rest of the “work.” Last year’s expenditure on
the Theatres and Films Commission was £483 ; this
year £l9OO has been provided. And there is an un-
contradicted story that the Theatres and Films Com-
mission has advised the inept Government to guaran-
tee people who are making films up to £50,000 at
the bank.
Of a piece with Theatres and Films is Develop-
ment and Migration. It has a staff of one shorthand-
writer at £314 p.a. and one “regular temporary clerk,”
besides the Director. He draws £1487 p.a. to direct
development and migration—if either exists.
Stoppage of overseas travel and the British pur-
chases of produce have left Agents-General with
nothing to do but draw their salaries. But the salaries
go on —round £l6OO for the N.S.W. Agent-General and
£166 a week for a staff of 24. Mr. Bruxner shelters in
his Transport Department a neat little office peopled by
a directorate of National Emergency Services. To
this £5436 was allotted, and £40,000 has been added
for “precautionary measures.” There are a director at
£6OO p.a., an acting-lecturer at £262 p.a. and a “con-
sultant on air-raid precautions” at £lOO, plus six tem-
porary employees drawing from £7O to £232 per
annum. This is a Commonwealth job, and State
meddling has already resulted in a first-class mess ; but
State Governments delight in trespassing on Common-
wealth functions.
On the Premier’s Department list (Mr. Chamber-
lain has no department) are £lOO for a lady doctor for
“travel service, Australian guidebook,” and £3OO
towards the cost of taking Mr. Stevens’s private secre-
tary to London —£561 was provided for the same
gentleman in 1938-39. But such items are scarcely
worth mentioning when some of the lumped expendi-
tures are considered. Provision is made for £156,000
for cleaning—the Premier’s office alone costs £22 10s.
per week to clean ; £4175 for tea-money for staffs;
£282,000 for “travelling and removal expenses, in-
cluding hire charges” ; £46,000 for maintenance of
motor vehicles and launches ; £14,077 for books and
periodicals—last year’s estimate was £9500 and actual
expenditure £15,000 ; £49,973 for printing not done
by the Government Printing Office (under this head
last year the estimate was £20,972 and £55,000 was
spent); £690,000 for stores and provisions; £llB,OOO
for “allowances”; £81,625 for fees, commissions and
remuneration for services rendered —they overran the
constable by £16,000 last year; and roughly £120,000
for temporary assistance. All this with a 1938-39
deficit of £2,448,000 admitted —the real figure was
about twice that amount —and a 1939-40 deficit of
£1,500,000 anticipated ; and the public to be legally
looted of another £3,900,000 in nine months.
In seven years the public debt has increased by
£53,000,000, with the guaranteed borrowings of “semi-
Government authorities” to be added—the Sydney
Water Board alone is going through £3,000,000 p.a.
On the total of £360,000,000, interest of nearly
£13,000,000 p.a. has to be found, and it is going up
all the time. But this has not moved the financial
profligates of Macquarie-street to set an example of
economy even in their own Parliamentary lives.
The 1938-39 estimates had £16,724 for Ministerial
salaries, £52,448 for Assembly “allowances” and £3498
for the “President of the Council, etc.” Before the
Budget promising a mythical surplus had been debated,
Parliament raised Ministers’ salaries to £23,420
altogether, members’ salaries to £69,375 (£875
p.a. apiece) and the Council salary vote to £4690,
dating the increases back four months. At these levels
the figures remain. Thus taxpayers are to sweat to pay
members and Ministers £97,535, together with £39,882
for staff charges and £5812 for sundries —total
£143,229, and the Parliamentary printing bill to come.
Where the Commonwealth Parliament gets along
with 28 clerks and messengers, the squanderjoint in
Sydney employs 39. Apart from clerks concerned with
Parliamentary procedure, N.S.W. Assemblymen re-,
quire eight “clerks, typists and amanuenses” to attend
to their clerical needs, and 13 messengers to guard
them and run errands for them. The Council man-
ages with five messengers. This, however, is only the'
beginning of the retinue.
Canberra Parliament House supports a “domestic”
staff of nine—four stewards, two waiters, a chief cook,
an assistant cook and a kitchen assistant. The Mac-
quarie-street megaphones demand a steward, an
assistant steward, a chef, two watchmen and 20 “house
servants, waiters, etc.,” plus “a female staff of 10,” to
give them food and drink. There is not the least
reason why they shouldn’t walk across the road for
their meals.
Then there are a library staff of six, a reporting
staff of 13 and a printing bill averaging £15,000 p.a.
Motor hire for members after late sittings costs £4 a
week all the year round ; tea money for staff, £9 a
week ; books and periodicals to refresh the legislative
mind, £2O a week ; stamps for members, £53 a week ;
and “temporary assistance” for the 95 permanent em-
ployees who look after the tired politicians, £35 a week.
For recreation, apart from internal amenities, the
legislators have reserved for themselves a couple of


tennis courts with a main frontage to Macquane-
street. The land is worth at least £120,000.
His survey completed, our financial reformer could
usefully enter upon his course of action by reducing
Ministerial salaries 50 p.c. (there are 16 Ministers, and
10 are more than enough), by cutting members to
£3OO p.a. and by making them pay for transport ex-
cept when engaged on public business. He could then
tackle the departments and commissions, one by one
(naturally he would give special attention to the Rail-
way Department in the light of his own report that,
with “insufficient provision made for depreciation and
operating expenses temporarily relieved by loan ex-
penditure,” it accumulated a deficit of £23,215,600 in
13 years), closing such as cannot justify their existence
and dismissing persons with no claims on the State who
cannot be usefully employed. It will merely be a pre-
paration for what is to come. Though they may linger
superfluous for a time, six State Governments, six
State Parliaments, six Government Houses, six London
offices and a multitude of departments are doomed.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Parleys with Nazis?
As it seems to The Bulletin:
In the knowledge that the German Government was about
to offer peace terms, for what they might be worth, Mr.
Winston Churchill .hastened to remark that the offer would
come from a “group of gangsters whose hands are stained
with blood and sticky with corruption.” The sentiments were
echoed by Mr. Winston Churchill’s friends and admirers, to
whom the idea of a crusading war, to be fought and won by
heroes who never get their names in the papers—Tommies,
airmen, bluejackets and merchant seamen —has appealed for
years. In the Commons other notes were struck.
Mr. Attlee, the British Labor-leader, said “Britain must
carefully examine every proposal for peace, but mere rever-
sion to the situation of last year would not mean peace.”
Mr. Buchanan, of the Ind. Labor group, declared that
“if we had told the Poles that what we did was all we were
going to do, they would never have entered the war”; and he
spoke as one who had been to Poland and left it “in the last
ship from Gdynia.” Mr. Buchanan questioned the statement
that there was “a great and unanimous desire among the masses
for the war,” and ventured the opinion that if it developed
into “a colossal struggle”
you’d lose millions of lives, and at the end you’d have
to discuss matters, if not with Hitler, then with some-
body equally bad. Meet them now and discuss terms
to save humanity, and the world will look up to you!
Mr. Lloyd George, while agreeing that “a better guarantee
of peace is needed than Hitler’s word,” insisted that “the
whole matter requires the most careful consideration,” and
suggested “a secret session, which might discuss any more
detailed proposal than the present one.” He urged the House
also “to consider the possibility of an international confer-
ence, to include the United States.” For this he was scolded
by Mr. Duff Cooper and other diehards; but the Rev. James
Barr, a Scottish Labor member, praised his “noble and cour-
ageous utterance,” adding, “Some people almost seem to say
not peace at any price, but war at any price.”
Mr. Chamberlain refused to have a secret session, not
having “sufficient confidence in the secrecy of such a session” —
an obvious reference to the presence of a Communist member.
He reviewed the situation brought about by “the Russo-
German agreement and the partition of Poland”; and,
glancing at the Russo-German declaration, said it “appeared
to contain a suggestion of a peace proposal and a threat if
it were refused.”
No threat will induce Britain and France to abandon
their purpose... .and we can accept no mere assurances
from the German Government.
If proposals are made we will examine them in the
light of what I have just said.
Proposals were made —in the familiar form of a speech
to the Reichstag. It contained a lot of familiar stuff—assur-
ances that Nazi Germany had no designs on France, Holland,
Belgium, Switzerland, Scandinavia, Hungary, Yugoslavia or
the British Empire, save for the return of “the stolen colonies,
and “this claim is not an ultimatum but an appeal to justice
and reason.” There was also the familiar defiance of Mr.
Churchill and other “British statesmen afid journalists.”
Mr. Churchill may think Britain will win. I have
no doubt Germany will be victorious... .Even to-day
there can be peace in Europe only when Germany and
England come to an agreement.
Of Poland, Hitler said that it was “one of the worst-
managed States in Europe, which never had the support of
more than 15 per cent, of the population.” Its leaders were
“irresponsible, unscrupulous and incapable,” and all its armies
had been destroyed with small German losses.
The Poland of Versailles will never rise again. This
is guaranteed by Russia and Germany, by whom the
final question of the Polish State will be solved.
However, there would be a Polish State with, on _ the
German side, boundaries “doing justice to historical,
ethnographical and economic facts.” By arrangement between
Germany and Russia there would be “a moving of nationalities
in east and south-east Europe, to avoid further conflict in
those areas.” There would likewise be an attempt at a settle-
ment of the Jewish question, also in co-operation with Russia.
He had no ambitions in the Ukraine or the Urals, nor would
there be any clash of ideologies.
Russia remains Soviet Russia and we remain Nazi
Germany. The Reich in the east will always remain
peaceful. German desires are identical with Russian
desires.
All the Russian passages are new, very new. New also
was the proposal for “a general conference to settle the
problems of Europe before millions bleed to death.” But
“it is impossible for such a conference to assemble under the
roaring of guns, under the pressure of mobilised armies.”
In short, Hitler suggested an armistice, and he is
apparently anxious that President Roosevelt should make the
actual proposal and send a delegation to the conference, if
held. Failing President Roosevelt, Signor Mussolini would
evidently be accepted as an intervener, or Queen Wilhelmina
or General Franco. Hitler talked also of “reorganisation
of commerce, markets, banking regulations and currency
exchanges; absolute territorial guarantees; reduction of
armaments to a reasonable, economically-bearable leyel; and
limitation of the use of air forces, gas and submarine war-
fare” —ail, presumably, to be discussed at his conference.
In some respects Hitler’s mind curiously resembles that
of our Mr. J. T. Lang. There is the same complete uncon-
sciousness of self-contradictions; the same stubborn refusal
to admit the possibility that the speaker may be or may ever
have been wrong. And Hitler, like Mr. Lang, is followed
by masses of perfectly decent people who believe in him in
spite of everything. . , , . . . , ~
Shall we refuse to parley with him? Mr. Menzies
evidently thinks so. Mr. Menzies finds the Reichstag speech
“a blustering attempt to justify war.” “Is the independence
of Poland to be restored?” Mr. Menzies asks. Is the
national integrity of the Czechs and Slovaks to be restored?”
These “plain questions” suggest others of importance to the
Commonwealth. Are Australians to fight Russians so that
“the independence of Poland” may be restored? Does “the
national integrity of the Czechs and the Slovaks” mean
the restoration of Czechoslovakia as it was m 1937; and, if
so, are Australians to fight Hungarians, who grabbed part
of it, and Slovaks, who would have fought the Czechs as
they fought the Poles? And is Poland or Czechoslovakia to
have Teschen? „ . ~ ~ ,
No harm could come of parleying with Hitler. The Royal
Navy, the British Army, the R.A.F. and the merchant marine
stand ready should parleys fail. At the worst discussion
might stop the war in the west for four months, and in four
months anything could happen. For one thing, the Nazis
and the Bolshies might fall out over Finland.
Soldiers at Bargain Prices.
In 1914 the rate of pay in the A.I.F. was fixed at 6s. a
day—ss. a day “active” and Is. deferred, to be received
on discharge. The calculation was that this would
yield to full privates “the same return, when their
rations and lodging were taken into consideration, as
an average Australian worker obtained in the shape
of wages.” It was 2s. per day more than the local rate
for compulsory trainees. In 1915, an A.I.F. separation
allowance was instituted.
Recently when the militia was reorganised the
basic pay of privates was fixed at Bs. a day. For
officers, generally speaking, the pre-war compulsory-
training rates were adopted —lieutenants 155., captains
£1 2s. 6d. The increase for privates was obviously an
official confession of the fact that cost of living had
gone up, but it did not represent anything like the dif-
ference between average standard living expenses in
1914 and 1938 or 1939.
With the outbreak of another war and the enlist-
ment of a special-service force, new scales have been
announced after a characteristic delay. Special-service
men are to receive “A.I.F. rates,” as they are called.
Militiamen will continue to receive Bs. a day for a
month. After that the Government’s peace-time bar-
gain with them goes overboard, and their pay will be
reduced to “A.I.F. rates.”
Actually, officers’ pay in the special-service force
is lower than in 1914. At the beginning of the last
war lieutenants after embarkation received £1 Is. a day.
They are now to be paid 15s. a day on Australian
service and 17s. 6d., including 2s. 6d. deferred pay,
after embarking. A.I.F. captains received on embark-
ing £1 6s. a day. Their new rate, in common with
that of all officers above subaltern rank, is the same
for local or overseas service—£l 2s. 6d. —save that
when overseas 3s. 6d. will be deducted as deferred pay.
Privates will receive only ss. a day while in Australia,
with an extra Is. a day deferred pay while abroad.
Aircraftsmen and specialists will receive 9s. a day
upwards ; air officers’ pay is ss. or more higher than in
the A.I.F. Married men will receive 2s. 6d. a day
allowance for a wife and 9d. for each child, irrespective
of rank —it was 2s. and 6d. respectively in the last war
for men on less than 10s. per day.
Thus, leaving out of the question pay which can-
not be drawn till discharge, a family of five whose
breadwinner is risking his life for his country share
£3 Bs. 3d. a week, including money drawn by the
absent soldier.
Fighting is not like other dangerous trades. It
knows no award hours. If called upon to work 24
hours a day for six days, the soldier must obey. And
there are no industrial safeguards. His job may cost
him his life or his health.
“A.I.F. rates” won’t do. To “A.I.F. rates” must
be added full cover for the increased cost of living
since July, 1914. In respect of food “and groceries”
alone “the weighted average of six capital cities” on
June 30, 1939, was 42 p.c. more than in June, 1914 ;
and the figures are those of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s own statistician. A.I.F. rates plus 50 p.c.
are the least that should be offered to special-ser-
vice men and militiamen in camp alike. Anything less
is sweating. As Dr. Page puts it, the ninepence a day
for a child is “barely enough to buy a quart of milk.”
Perfect Stillness.
Australian Communists are still struggling to accom-
modate their “policy” to the manoeuvres of their
masters in Moscow.
First they announced (and in this they were sup-
ported by one of those “famous American corre-
spondents”) that the first Russo-German agreement
would be null and void if Germany became an
aggressor. When Germany attacked Poland, they fer-
vently championed the Poles and advised “comrades”
who had any stomach for fight to join an Australian
expeditionary force. When the Red Army of soldiers,
commissars and actors invaded Poland, the coast being
clear, they explained that it was because the White
Russian and Ukrainian minorities in Poland had to
be rescued from brutal Polish landowners, Poland
being a barbarous capitalist country dominated by a
reactionary military caste. The second Russo-German
agreement with its assurance of Russian material aid
for Germany and its threat of a military alliance
brought another “explanation.” Anti-Communists
watched these performances with amusement mingled
with contempt.
But in one quarter, which was vocal and patron-
ising for years, there is complete silence. Nothing has
been heard from those Friends of the Soviet and
Leagues Against War and Fascism and the like in which
suave Reds enrolled middle-class mugs of both sexes in
Australia, as well as in all other parts of the Eng-
lish-speaking world. Nothing from the Society for
the Promotion of Cultural Relations with Russia, which
was joined by at least one Australian archbishop,
several bishops and a flock of university professors.
Nothing from the Left Book Clubs —every capital city
had at least one —which boasted among their mem-
bership Labor politicians, many League ladies keen on
boycotting Japan and more university professors.
All these worthy people had their legs pulled by
the Stalinists. They fancied, being credulous, that
they were helping to promote peace and “world re-
generation” and strengthening the Democratic Front.
Now they see their Stalin helping to cut up Poland,
overawing the little Baltic States, threatening the
western democracies; in short, suddenly reviving
Russian imperialism in Europe and Asia. All the
good bishops, professors, lecturers and League ladies ;
all the Leftist writing boys and artists ; all the students
and dilettanti who lapped up the literature of the
Parlor Pinks, volumes praised by Laski and published
by Gollancz —all have been taken in by a vulgar
Eurasian conqueror, who is trying to do his con-
quering on the cheap, and they are silent because they
are ashamed to confess it.
What State Parliaments Are For.
Every week that passes gives N.S.W. taxpayers cause
to wonder what their State Assembly does for its
princely salaries (£875 p.a., raised £205 during the
year of the stupendous deficit) and its free passes
over all the Government railways, tramways
and motor-buses. It long ago surrendered control of
the public purse and set up boards to control milk,
eggs and other commodities, with legislative as well
as administrative powers. It gave legislative and
administrative powers also to the Railway and Trans-
port Commissions, and these powers have been em-
ployed to shackle commercial road transport, raise
salaries and go on overseas trips in luxury liners, all
being charged up to the taxpayer.
Not only has the alleged Parliament become
useless in such matters, but it accepts the humiliating
position. The disappearance of the Manly trams is a
case in point. Bills for the construction and equip-
ment of the lines had to be introduced and passed
and the money had to be voted. The alleged Parlia-
ment thus made itself responsible for the whole outfit.
Without reference to the alleged Parliament or to the
people of the district the trams have been scrapped,
and “their place taken by 70 motor-buses.”
Manly to the Spit and Manly to Harbord and
Narrabeen are the lines that have gone west. The
length was 11 miles 48 chains ; capital cost figures in
the 1937-38 report of the commission at just on
£224,000—£19,304 a mile; “book value of con-
struction and equipment” at £309,600. Allowing for
losses (£7240 in 1938), which the Government finances
on the Micawber plan, and for a proportion of the
general capital outlay (£8,312,900 to June 30, 1938),
at least a million of good loan money must have been
sunk in the extinguished enterprise, and this year—
and the Lord knows how many more years —the tax-
payers will have to find interest on the million.
For the commission coolly announces that its tram-
way and omnibus services will, on June 30, 1940,
show a loss of just on £48,000.
Government buses date from the advent of the
Stevens “anti-Socialist” Government. Even in Lang’s
time (though he snuffed them out) the public was
served by private concerns which paid substantial
taxation and were prepared to pay a great deal more
for controlled routes and security of tenure. Now
the Transport Commission has between 400 and 500
buses, and adds to the number when it feels that way.
It doesn’t pay taxes, and, although it claimed a net
profit of £17,000 on metropolitan buses for the year
to June 30, 1938, it admitted a loss of £9400 on the
Newcastle buses. And it employs a huge and growing
staff, all qualifying for superannuation payments.
Under Parliamentary government, as it is called,
N.S.W. is run by boards and commissions and taxed
up to the eyes.
Chance for a Northcliffe.
Hannen Swaffer, one of Northcliffe’s old men, claims
to have established communication with “the Chief”
in the life beyond. It is to be hoped that he won’t
distress the Old Master of propaganda by sending him
a full and particular account of the stuff that 8.8. C.
is distributing among the Germans or of the leaflets
rained on Naziland from the skies.
On one of these intrepid adventures an R.A.F.
detachment flew over Berlin and returned without loss.
That was splendid. But, according to one account,
the leaflets they unloaded dealt with the story of the
American reporter Knickerbocker that Ribbentrop,
Goebbels, Himmler and the rest have millions sterling
deposited in foreign banks ; and that was silly.
The “scoops” of American reporters are now
two-a-penny everywhere. Admitting the remote possi-
bility that the Knickerbocker narrative may be true
for once, to prove it and convey the proof convinc-
ingly by the leaflet medium is out of the question. In
any case, no German would believe it.
But no German (nor any Briton for that matter)
would like to feel that he has been “had,” or that the
security of everything he holds dear has been endan-
gered by a national leader’s betrayal of his own con-
victions as recorded in white and black.
Were Northcliffe alive to-day and in control of
propaganda, he would regard Mein Kampf as a god-
send. How eagerly he would pounce on the passages in
which Hitler expresses his undying hatred of Bolshev-
ism, and transcribe them, with telling comments. “See
what your Fiihrer wrote, you Germans. He protests that
he saved you from Bolshevism in 1933 ; and in 1939
you see him crushing the Poles, who stood between
you and the Red peril, and bringing it to your new
frontier. He gave you a pledge that he would never
shake hands with Stalin. We British have found that
we can’t trust his pledges. Can you trust them now?”
In Mein Kampf Hitler posed as a defender of
Western civilisation against Oriental barbarism. He
founded the Anti-Comintern Pact and sold the other
parties to it by allying himself with the director of
the Communist Internationale. Dmitrov, the secre-
tary of the Communist Internationale, is the man he
accused of firing the Reichstag building; and he is
the man who has been let loose in “Russian” Poland
to Bolshevise it and eradicate religion. When Hitler
sent airmen to Spain, he said it was to help the now-
horrified Franco to protect the Catholic Church
against Stalinist atheism. In all these things there is
ready-made propaganda which would drive Hitler into
a corner and could not be ignored or laughed away.
The Germans could be plied with it most effectively.
But it is a useless imperilling of precious lives to ply
them with flapper-paper “sensations.” .


Society
"AND ITS PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“And Wot’s more, mister, I've got an underground shelter .”
“Nakh”: One of the oddities of war-
time entertainment in Melbourne lately
was the introduction to a ballroom floor
of a performing elephant. During the
last war a showman at St. Kilda tried to
cash in on the quantities of Diggers who
perambulated the foreshore by offering
a “Wild Man from Borneo” for inspec-
tion. At his opening session he got an
excellent house, but when he exposed his
treasure and it turned out to be a retired
actor on a chain wearing artificial whis-
kers and growling like a goat the Dig-
gers in attendance became so insistent on
having their money back that the man-'
ager of the monster had to take extreme
measures. “I’ll let him off his chain,” he
screamed, “if you don’t leave quietly.”
Two minutes later St. Kilda was regaled
with the spectacle of the fierce Bornean
making for Sorrento with a brown cloud
of khaki after him.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A debt-collection agency of
Sydney has run up against the S.A. law
which forbids any privately-issued docu-
ment “reasonably capable of conveying
the impression that it was issued by, or
under the authority or sanction of, a
Court of Law.” This one was headed
merely “Final notice of intention to pro-
ceed to the Local Court for recovery of
debt.” But the Adelaide police court im-
posed a £l5 fine.
“D.”: 8.8. C. has its moments. On
2/10/’39 the announcer dealt with the
Nazi assertion that the British press is
Jew-controlled, notably the “Westminster
Gazette,” owned by Sir Alfred Mond.
The reply recounted impassively that the
“Westminster Gazette” ceased publica-
tion 11 years ago, that Sir Alfred Mond
died seven years ago, and that he had
never been even remotely connected with
the newspaper.
# * * *
“Lao-dah”: I am interested in the an-
nouncement of Melbourne’s Spring Car-
nival committee that the 180 ft. dragon to
be released on “China’s Night” must have
only full-blooded Celestials inside it, as
the mythical reptile has a deep religious
significance for Chinamen. All the full-
blooded Chinamen of my acquaintance
in Melbourne are Methodists, Presby-
terians or Seventh Day Adventists or
belong to one or another of the other
Christian denominations. The dragon is
purely a pagan symbol. It used to be
regarded with fear in antique days in
China, but, although there is always fear
where there is reverence, there is not
always reverence where there is fear, and
the Chinese feared the dragon because
he had a habit of sleeping underground
and turning over in his sleep without giv-
ing any notice, thus causing earthquakes
and other unpleasant phenomena. If a
community could afford it, he used to
be pinned down by a pagoda built in a
spot where his tail had been located by
the local Taoist necromancers. Nowa-
days the dragon is trotted out at the New
Year as a warning to debtors to pay their
bills and mortgagors to ante up their
interest or go insolvent. The number
of bankruptcies after the Dragon Boat
Festival in Canton is enormous, conse-
quently the Chinese feel about as reveren-
tial to the dragon as an Australian does
to a bill-collector.
* * * *
“Skinner”: A naturalists’ society in
Melbourne has been thrown into an awk-
ward predicament, the scene of their
annual study of bird behavior in spring-
time having been taken over by a nudists’
colony. Unless the bird-lovers can prove
that this is bad for the birds they will
have to do their contemplating elsewhere.
This recalls a happening of recent years
in a coastal town in Wales. A
wealthy citizen decided to present his
fellow-townsmen with a new pier, and to
add culture to utility and attract the tour-
sists he engaged a band to give concerts
on the end of it every Sunday evening.
The local church authorities declared that
he had brought the devil to England, and
as he owned the local paper a spirited
controversy began between press and
pulpit. When it was at its height some-
thing happened which united the two
organs of public opinion. One Sunday
a party of nudists walked along the prom-
enade in broad daylight, and it turned
out that there was nothing in English
law to prevent them.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Apropos these astrolo-
gers (B. 27/9/’39) and other prophets,
there seems to be one competent speci-
men, a Hungarian female seer, Boriska
Silbiger. Boriska’s effort in London
“News-Chronicle” on Jan. 19,1939, makes
Madame Tabouis’s guesses sound worth
about one pengo seven koronas. She
prophesied that this year Germany would
bump up against a great Power solidly
for the first time; that early in the year
Czechoslovakia would be in trouble
again, but that it “would soon be
settled” ; that Russia would start negotia-
tions which would suddenly terminate
when she found a powerful ally; that
this would be followed by an unexpected
alliance which would surprise the world ;
that the Palestine question would be
settled by outside interference; that
a world war would begin, but that the
Spanish war would be finished before
this happened ; that the year would be
fatal to a Balkan personage—M. Armand
Calinescu, of Rumania, has gone west.
I suspect that the British Cabinet must be
in close touch with her, Anyway, she
and Mr. Chamberlain are at one in think-
ing the great scrap will last three years,
after which “those who survive” will en-
joy lasting peace.
* * * *
“Bukharin’s Wraith”: I am getting dis-
gusted with this here Bolshevik movement
Stalin holds his purges in private,
and M. Maisky, the Soviet Ambassador,
just before the Russo-German pact was
signed in August was busy being photo-
graphed by a fashionable London weekly
“meditating in his delightful garden.”
Where are the brave Bohemian boys of
yesteryear of whom M. Beesedovsky,
once Soviet Ambassador to Paris, wrote
before he escaped the Ogpu over the
garden wall in the Rue de Grenelle?
Where is Vice-President Serbichenko, of
the Ukrainian Council of Commissars,
who earned the honored nickname
Steeplejack by climbing the spire of
Stregenska Church while drunk and
ringing the alarm bell for several hours?
Where is his fellow-Commissar Tchernov?
He, also drunk,
thought the hotel was on fire, and turned
on all the taps, flooding two storeys.
Then, going out into the street, he got
hold of two prostitutes and drowned one
of them in the bath.
These were the grand old pioneers who
built the Red Front against Fascism.
But I suppose, like another old pal of
M. Bessedovsky who earned his repu-
tation with the Ogpu by sending for his
own father and executing him, they have
become sacrifices for their bleeding
country.
* * * *
“Kolonel v. Bungsterputsch”: Cripes,
’Dolf, why don’t yer cop a bit o’ savvy
fer dealin’ with the British mob in its
little island off the coast? All yer’ve
gotter do is to divert the Gulf Stream an’
you’d ’ave the cows cold. Abserlootely,
Ad., yer would, ’cos then there wouldn’t
be no herrings following it acrost the
Atlantic, an’ once yer cut out kippers the
Britisher’s brekfus is sunk, an’ wivout
brekfus ’e’s sunk too. After that yer
could start shovin’ the South Pole abart
a bit in one of them speeches of yours
where you start blubbin’ an’ yer’d ’ave a
fair show of pilin’ up a stack of glaciers
on top of them flamin’ Aussies wot giv’
yer orficers such a lota lash w’en you
was just a bleedin’ Peggy private long
before yer got yer last step as corp. Then
yer might (Remainder deleted by
censor.)
* * * *
“Major McSneeze”: My old colonel,
who used to grace a Piccadilly window in
the days when brasshats exhibited them-
selves in club fronts like meat in a
butchery, would scarcely believe it, but
they actually have a Conscientious Objec-
tors’ Association in England, and, in the
perverse English manner which no Con-
tinental can fathom, seem to be proud
of it, since some of the London illustrated
weeklies have devoted pages to its doings
in the last few months. They have been
holding training courts to school their
young men in the art of becoming a suc-
cessful conchie. One turned up before the
real Court with a cartoon published at the
time of the Versailles Treaty, depicting
Lloyd George, Clemenceau and Wood-
row Wilson with a year-old child, marked
“1940 class,” and Clemenceau saying:
“Curious! I seem to hear a child weep-
ing.” The cartoon was one of the greatest
press features of the time, and the man
who drew it was The Bulletin’s old
artist .Will Dyson.
* * * *
“Hacksaw”: One of the most impres-
sive grog blossoms in Melbourne belongs
to a man-about-towri. He was in his
favorite pub the other evening when the
subject of war-time increases in the price
of liquor came up for discussion, and he
became extremely heated. In order to
pacify him the barmaid mildly suggested
that everybody had to make some sacri-
fice when the country was in danger.
“Sacrifices, yes.” he retorted, glaring at
her heavily-painted visage. “But why do
they want to tax the already most heavily-
taxed cosmetic on the market?”
“It's all right, gentlemen. It's Hitler I want , NOT you!"
THEN—AND NOW.
(After Kipling.)
“We must not forget that the Bolshevists are
bloodstained criminals, belonging to a race which
combines bestial cruelty with vast skill in lies, and
that Germany is the next great objective of Bol-
shevism.”—Hitler in “Mein Kampf.”
Mendacious butchers, known of old
To our indomitable line
As ruffians unfit to hold
The slightest talk with me and mine,
Your infamies we won’t be let,
If I can help it, to forget.
You stand in our Teutonic eyes
An outcast breed, a race apart.
Pastmasters in the foulest lies
Engendered by the blackest heart;
A charge it’s well in print to set,
Lest we forget, lest we forget.
Full well we’ve known for many a day
Your sinister and base desire
To make our Fatherland your prey,
To lay it waste with sword and fire,
An oft-reiterated threat
We may not readily forget.
Later, it seems, you aimed to loose
A subtler wallop at our jaw,
Your Bolshie creed that knows no use
For hest divine or human law,
A project you may safely bet
We’re never likely to forget.
Yet, now we’re joined in mutual trust
Who once were hot with hate so hard,
From recollection let us thrust
The names we’ve called each other, pard.
We may be sturdy cobbers yet
If you’ll forgive what we’d forget.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“If I wasn't a lady I'd kick your teeth down
your throat!"
“T.”: Circumstances have prevented
me from going to Yarra Bank for a fort-
night of Sundays; but I must revisit it,
even if I have to make a special trip
from Sydney. I want to gather round the
anti-Communist platform again. It is
(or was) conducted by a Digger who
strikingly resembles Ned Sparks, the
American film comedian, and is as game
as a bull-ant. The day I was there the
Communists —nearly all twice his size--
were maundering about the iniquities of
the national register. Clambering on a
form within biscuit-throw of theirs, the
little Digger gave out his text, which was
(and doubtless is) “Corns, are dingoes.”
In the course of half an hour he men-
tioned this quite twenty times, raising his
voice until it nearly cracked. Challenged
to prove that he was ever in the front
line in France —the challenger was an
elderly gentleman on the outskirts of the
growing crowd—he undertook to prove
it by putting a head on the challenger if
the latter would oblige by advancing
within smiting distance. This inter-
ruption over, a doctor upended himself
and started paying out Communist chin-
music. “Corns, are dingoes!” shouted
the dauntless defender of our institu-
tions ; and, addressing both audiences, he
gave them interesting, though doubtless
apocryphal, details of the medico’s
career. At that stage I had to leave.
As I walked smartly towards Prince’s
Bridge I heard the last words of his in-
dictment: “Corns, are dingoes.” There
must be a triumphal note in it since
Stalin twisted to Hitler or Hitler to Stalin
—the papers have it both ways.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: One of the habits
of Rose Rooney (B. 27/9/’39) was that
of paying calls upon her publican neigh-
bors. Most of them didn’t like it, sus-
pecting Rose of a desire to lure away
some of their regulars, and anyway not
caring about women drinking in their
bars. It was a processional sort of busi-
ness : Rose always had a couple of ladies-
in-waiting and three or four male fol-
lowers ; she seemed to take possession
when she swanked in and called for
drinks for the crowd. When I met Rose
on one of these royal progresses a mem-
ber of her retinue told me that she had
already visited nine other pubs. As she
insisted on shouting at all bars the pro-
gress showed some physical and financial
endurance ; looking in on her on her own
preserves towards six o’clock I was aston-
ished to see Rose still quite spry and
alert —and she had been drinking fair-
quantity gins. In spite of the suspicions
of her rivals I believe Rose regarded
these visitations as an exhibition of social
good-fellowship.
* * * *
“Jachris”: That contributor who com-
plained a few weeks back that poets and
songwriters hadn’t hastened to inflict their
war inspirations on a public suffering from
a surfeit of Hollywood love lyrics was a
little premature. The 8.8. C. shortly
afterwards began featuring a ditty,
“Hang Your Washing on the Sieg-
fried Line,” and Australian music
stores are already selling recorded
versions of “that grand new
patriotic song ‘We Won’t
Stand Back.’ ” This latter
may be had with “Ajax
Marches On” —“an ace-high
hit for an ace-high horse’’
—on the reverse side of the
record. Those who don’t
like to be reminded of war
but who’d like to sing the
champion prad’s praises can
get sheet music, together
with a four-color picture of
the horse and a list of his
winnings, for a couple of
bob.
* * *
“Ente Marid”: I have
been hearing so much about
Adolf that I begin to fear
for him. In three years he
has had serious abdominal
trouble, threatened cancer,
loss of voice, “dangerous
throat condition causinj
anxiety” and incipient mad-
ness, and now a “reliable”
chronicler tells us that
“people who know Hitler
and the conditions in Ger-
many rather expect him to
commit suicide if things go
against him.” In case Mr.
Chamberlain believes it, I
am going to write to him
and remind him of my old pal
and remind him of my old
pal Ah Foo, of Burke-
town (Q.), who decided
to run amuck, and was on his way to
see the local pubkeeper with a loaded
double-barrelled muzzle-loader with both
triggers cocked. A tactful copper inter-
cepted him. “Maski, you shootim that
one piecee man,” says he. “That one
been killee ’imself finish now—corn-
mittee suisai, allsame.” Ah Foo medi-
tated. “More better me shootee him,” he
remarked solemnly. “Might be he come
alive again. You never know,” he added
wisely.
* * * *
“Bill O’C.”: “Bilge’s” reference (B.
27/9/’39) to the danger of monkeying
with the valves, tanks, seacocks, etc., with
which every ship seems liberally supplied,
recalls my own one exploit in that direc-
tion. Travelling from Sydney in the Dim-
boola, I was annoyed by a rhythmic
squeak, common enough in all old ships,
which persisted all night and murdered
sleep. When I mentioned it to the chief
engineer he suavely replied: “Yes, we
know about that but can’t locate it. I’ll
have another try for you.” But nothing
happened until the night before reaching
my home port, when, driven frantic, I
got up in the middle of the night and did
a little exploration for myself. The noise
appeared to come from a large pipe that
ran along the alleyway. I tracked my
nuisance to a wheel valve where it was
at the maximum, and tried the experi-
ment of turning it off or on, I don’t
know which, but the squeak stopped at
once. Nothing happened, save that as
I stood at the rail waiting to leave the
ship the chief engineer came up and said
to me: “We’ve found that squeak for
you and stopped it.”
V * * *
“T.0.A.”: Choice specimen of misin-
formation from a Sydney “D.T.” par. on
Billy Hughes:
The English cartoonist, Low, on one
occasion depicted him orating and gesticu-
lating to a dumbfounded Cabinet, with the
Prime Minister (Mr. Asquith) beseeching
Mr. Lloyd George: “David, speak to him
in Welsh and pacify him.”
The “English cartoonist” is a native of
Maoriland. His “David, talk [not speak]
to him in Welsh” cartoon was drawn
in Australia for The Bulletin, on which
Low was a staff man, and appeared on
March 16, 1916. The original, as Ernest
Scott records in his Australia During the
War, was bought by a Scottish Governor-
General, Munro-Ferguson, “and pre-
sented to the Commonwealth Parliament;
it now hangs in the central hall at Parlia-
ment House, Canberra.” With Hughes’s
signature added, it was reproduced, with-
out acknowledgment to The Bulletin,
in the fourth volume of Lloyd George’s
War Memoirs. The words “orating and
gesticulating to a dumbfounded Cabi-
net” appear in Scott’s reference to “Low’s
richly humorous drawing” ; the “D.T.”
overlooked or ignored a biographical note
printed at the foot of the page: “D. Low,
Esq., cartoonist and caricaturist, b.
Dunedin, N.Z., 7 April, 1891.” But that’s
the “D.T.’s” way.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Another of those over-
worked words is “session.” I have
seen it applied to all manner of violent
exercises with fixed intervals in which
—the exercises, not the intervals —the
persons engaged are supposed to be on
their feet at least most of the time—
boxing bouts, hockey and football
matches, and so on. Now I read that
the six-day bike race in Sydney was
run in eight-hour “sessions.” Still,
I suppose this use of the term can be
defended, for in one “session”
“Franciose and Green slipped on the
steep banking and fell” ; twenty minutes
afterwards “Guyatt fell,” and “a lap
later Windon collided with Guyatt’s
bicycle and they also came down,
Guyatt being removed on a stretcher.
Guyatt indeed had several nasty falls,
and was out of the race for two hours
for ambulance attention.” Another
“session,” which had a brisk opening,
saw “the retirement of Eric Rogers with
a broken collarbone.” During nearly
every “session,” in fact, someone sat
down hurriedly and was carried off the
track, perhaps quoting Shakspeare:
When to the sessions of sweet silent
thought,
I summon up remembrance of things past.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Having dared the dangers
and discomforts of the jungle in New
Guinea for 18 months, an Australian
explorer returned to his home in Mel-
bourne. Being a man of uncommon ver-
satility, he started occupying his leisure
in working out a scheme which would
make manual labor on the wharves com-
pletely old-fashioned, and one afternoon
he slipped down to the foreshore to
gather certain data. He hadn’t bothered
to inform his family, and they became
alarmed when he didn’t turn up for
dinner. At 9.30 p.m. they rang up the
police. Many patrols were presently
hunting for him. They finally ran him
to earth at Port Melbourne sitting on a
bollard absorbed in contemplation. When
he learnt the reason for the eruption of
policemen he was more embarrassed than
if they had been a crowd of headhunting
tribesmen.
* * * *
“F.S.”: With the approach of the ex-
hibition of masterpieces of French
modernism, Melbourne “Herald,” which
sponsored the bringing out of the collec-
tion, has been full of information and
anecdotes about the gods of the moderns.
One it hasn’t related yet concerns the
father, himself an impressionistic painter,
of one of the artists represented in the
“Herald” gallery. He had a notion that
the drinking of mare’s milk, popular
among the Mongols, promoted longevity.
Each morning he would be seen riding
a huge mare in the Bois de Boulogne in
Paris. Precisely at eleven he would look
at his watch, dismount and, taking a
bottle out of his hip-pocket, would milk
his mount. Then he would climb back
into the saddle and toss down the elixir.
Another of the painters whose work will
be on exhibition was the mother of one
of the most reverenced of the moderns.
She was a very good painter, and some
of her son’s most valued opuses were
painted by her when he had been divert-
ing himself with Bacchus. He always
. believed himself to be their author, and
never lost his faith in Bacchus as an in-
spiration.
"Gad, Prendergast, if Hitler had Waited another month these oysters
Would be perfect!"
THE BEER-GLASS POSITION.
“A tour of Sydney hotels was made by tbe
N.S.W. Government Statistician to enable him to
furnish a report on the beer-glass position.'’
The whole wide world is racked and rent
With controversy hot and strong
And strepitatious argument
On what is right and what is wrong.
But even in the stress of war
There still .are knotty problems here
Our rulers may not dare ignore
And statisticians must explore,
And one of them’s the price of beer.
At duty’s call the round he made
Of bars that meet all thirsts and tastes,
Schooners appraisingly surveyed
And coldly fingered ladies’ waists.
He figured with unerring eye
How much should go into a pot
And whether, frothing overhigh,
It makes an equitable buy
For chaps like you and me, or not.
I see him, in the bottle-’n’-jug
Department, points like these attack:
The proper content of a mug,
And what a pint should set you back,
And whether in the liquor shops
Where jovial jossers sip and chat,
And counters furnish elbow-props,
An eight-ounce shot of malt and hops
Is overvalued at a sprat.
And if he’s hit upon a mean
Between the worker getting stung
And portly brewers growing lean
And Bungs in bunches going bung,
’Twill be a tribute to his power
And demonstrate, you’ll all agree,
That even statisticians dour
May fill a useful niche in our
Political economy.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


CRAVENA
m
El 868
10 for 9°
20 for 1/6
ķ
ĸ
k
ķ
M AD E
SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Something must have gone wrong with
the Tune-in-to-Britain apparatus on
October 4. Menzies, speaking at the
National Club, Sydney, “rejected the
German peace offensive.” Chamberlain,
speaking in the House of Commons, and
premising that Britain and France would
not be moved by Russo-German threats,
and would “accept no mere assurances”
from Nazi Germany, which has “too often
proved in the past that its undertakings
are worthless,” said “If peace proposals
are made, we will examine them in the
light of what I just said.” That is the
right attitude.
Australia is losing one of its un-
crowned kings: Mr. Brown, of the Post
Office. The average P.M.G. was quite
humble in the presence of Mr. Brown,
and if successors are to be of the same
stamp—no pun intended—they will feel
lost without Mr. Brown to give them in-
structions. Cameron was an exception ;
he was no rubber-stamp for Mr. Brown,
although he recognised Mr. Brown’s
ability.
A.I.F. rates are back again—but not
for politicians. Twenty-five years ago
Commonwealth members got £6OO p.a.
and N.S.W. Assemblymen £5OO p.a.; in
1939 they give themselves £lOOO and
£875. No return to 1914 for them.
The Prices Commissioner permitting,
tea is up 3d. a pound, “owing chiefly to
exchange and a 25 p.c. rise in freight
from Colombo.” But all the tea being
sold is pre-war, and in any case mosl
of it comes from Java. The Prices Com-
missioner—the Commonwealth man,
anyway—is a professor, and in political
and A.B.C. circles it is held that profes-
sors are authorities on everything.
Housewives will presently be questioning
it with asperity.
Whatever may be thought of some of
its measures—the latest places the Reserve
Bank under full political control —the
Maoriland Government doesn’t let “an-
other place” interfere with its taxation
programme or provincial bodies get in
first for their cuts. It has raised the
gold duty to 75 p.c. of the increase
in price between August 24 (then £9 ss.
Sd. Maoriland per fine ounce) and the
day when exported. The Menzies Gov-
ernment let the Senate reject its 75 p.c.
tax on the excess over £9, and then
made it 50 p.c. by regulation.
Thrilling item from New York:
The Institute of Public Opinion took a
referendum on the question “Should the
United States declare war on Germany
and send the army and navy abroad?”
Ninety-five per cent, answered no. Last
month 84 per cent, answered no and 16
per cent. yes.
As Wilson said after the Lusitania was
sunk, “There is such a thing as being too
proud to fight.” As he didn’t say,
“There is such a thing as being not too
proud to skite and make money out of
seeing others fight.”
Sydney possesses an army of Feminist
Leaders who will not be suppressed.
Recent events have temporarily subdued
the “sanctions” variety, which was
exuberantly pro-Russian, but its place
has been taken by a section which insists
that the Commonwealth Bank Board can
solve all our financial troubles by mak-
ing money and issuing it in unlimited
quantities. This section charged into a
public meeting called to protest against
the legalised robbery of N.S.W. tax-
payers and so embarrassed controllers
and audience that “the proceedings,” as
“S. M. Herald” put it, “ended in dis-
order.”
There was, however, an unmistakable
unanimity of bitter feeling against the in-
creased taxation, and roars of approval
greeted speakers who said it was time
State Parliaments were abolished.
Audited and-found correct.
Roberts, the professor with four jobs,
on the worst of his aversions, Hitler:
He said on Friday, “The German
colonies must be returned. Should Eng-
lish statesmen fail to see the issues in our
light, we will fight.”
Did anyone else hear the man say that?
Obviously Melbourne “Argus” didn’t:
He said that Germany had no demands
against Great Britain, with the exception
of the colonial problem, which was able to
be solved without force.
Nor did Brisbane “Courier-Mail”:
The most important German political
demand # is the return of her colonies.
This demand is not an ultimatum, and
should not be carried out by force.
Apropos, Sydney University still permits
this Pooh-Bah to associate its name with
his yelping nonsense.
An amazingly large proportion of the
war stuff published in Australian papers
comes from New York. In other words,
from a city which is two-sevenths Jewish,
and whose Jews are not only bitterly
“Hitler is expected to wait ten days for a reply to his peace terms.”
“Do not vorry, mein Fiihrer. Remember vot you said —you are too
great to be azzailed, iz id nod zo?”
anti-Nazi—only natural, of course—but
also very largely anti-Polish and pro-
Russian. And some of the correspon-
dents have a distinct Russian bias.
Glancing at the fourth partition of
Poland, Chamberlain pointed out that
“the final Russo-German frontier is con-
siderably more favorable to Germany
than the provisional line of military
occupation.” A flat contradiction of our
Glorious Press, which had awarded its
wonderful Russians “the lion’s share of
the booty.” Stand by now for the editors’
chorus, “Chamberlain Must Go.”
Since “the betrayal of Munich” editors
and radio commentators have had no use
for Birmingham’s son. Eden was their
hero ; but Eden has withdrawn to the
comfortable security of the Dominions
Office, whence he issues occasionally to
make a few feeble remarks over the air.
So enter Churchill as the Man of
Destiny.
Since September 1, the League that
was “to enforce peace” has been men-
tioned in the newspapers twice. The first
reference was to the probability of its
being chucked out of Switzerland if the
Swiss found its presence embarrassing ;
the second to the increased largesse the
Australian Government is finding for it
this war-year—just on £48,000 altogether.
For the £48,000 the universally-despised
show will do as much as the “National
Travel Association” will do for its
£20,000 —nothing.
Another Russian miracle, reported by
“Mr. G. R. Gedye, the Moscow corre-
spondent of the New York ‘Times’”:
The Red Army’s railroad staff and other
engineers have carried out an amazingly
technical adaptation in the Ukraine....
The Polish narrow gauges have been
adapted to the Russian broad gauge at
the rate of 50 miles a day, and they are
now carrying the broad-gauge traffic to the
final demarcation line.
For forty years Australian railway man-
agers and engineers one of whom,
at least, has an international reputation-
have been trying to think out a swift
and inexpensive solution of the conver-
sion-of-gauges problem; and these
wonder-working Russians have solved it
in a few minutes! Clapp will now hide
in a hollow log.
Queensland Labor is not increasing
State taxes. The Victorian Premier —he
is also Treasurer and Solicitor-General —
budgeted for another £350,000, but says
that will be the limit. Mair, the N.S.W.
Premier (“without portfolio”), protests
that he can’t do with a pound less than
another £3,900,000 —and in that he doesn’t
include the railway-fare and freight-rate
increase dating from March —nor cut his
expenditure by a pound.
N.S.W. Premier Mair, “justifying” his
£3,900,000 taxation programme, and re-
peating himself with unction.
Governmental expenditure is now one
of the main determinants of business con-
ditions.
It can also be one of the main determi-
nants of State bankruptcy. Any U.S.
Republican could tell him that, and if
challenged would refer him to the Demo-
cratic Senator Pittman’s main “argument”
for nootrality law amendment.
The Secretary to the Treasury strikes
a seldom-heard note.
At the end of last week a circular was
sent to all the departments reminding them
that the strictest economy must be exer-
cised over the whole field of public ex-
penditure, because of the imperative neces-
sity of husbanding financial resources so
as to make them available to the utmost
for war purposes.
But it was the Secretary to the British
Treasury. Australian Governments are
still proceeding on the assumption that
there is no limit to the public purse, nor
any necessity to set limits to what should
be dragged out of it in taxes and service
charges.
According to League theory (there was
only one attempt at practice) about 50
countries ought to be now at war with
Germany and Russia, They are all patrons
of the Geneva circus, and all are under a
pledge of a sort to help Poland, after
consultation, against aggressors with all
the men and money they can muster.
In the death-agony of their republic the
Poles didn’t even bother to ask them.
If the balance of trade grows worse
it may be difficult to finance tea imports,
and if the price is to be stepped up
every now and then tea will lose much of
its popularity. Then our good Aus-
tralian beverage wine may come into its
own. It is not likely to become dearer,
and it doesn't have to be brought on
possibly hazardous voyages from bad-
customer countries. No real European
would wash down a meal with tea when
he could get wine like a good Australian
hock or chablis for the equivalent of
6d. a half-pint from a quart bottle or
less from a keg.
According to a cable, the Japanese
claim to have captured Hanyang, “120
miles south of Hankow,” and it is said
that this is the first time the town has
been captured. That must be because
it is such a fast runner. Hanyang used
to be half a mile across the Han River
from Hankow.
Sydney “D.T.,” which reminded Roose-
velt that Austria was as important to
him as Panama, does a bit more remind-
ing.
The Allies, in their fight for democracy
and the decencies of American law, are
fighting America’s battle as surely as their
own.
This by way of imploring Roosevelt
“and other American realists” to “allow
belligerent nations to buy munitions, pay
for them in 90 days and carry them in
their own ships,” and thus “purchase
security at an attractive price.” It’s a
dreadful comedown. The “D.T.” assured
Australians a score of times that
the U.S.A. would fight their battles as
surely as its own.
“How well’ you’re looking!” said
Menzies to Parkhill and Stevens at the
National Club lunch ; and why shouldn’t
they look well? Parkhill is “resting,”
and presumably has been comfortable
financially since the party ( what was it
called then?) recognised his patriotic self-
effacement when he wanted to stand for
North Sydney in 1922 and Hughes got
in first. Stevens is also “resting” on a
member’s salary, raised £205 p.a.—to
£B75 —on his own motion, during the
twelvemonth in which revenue, as he
reckoned it, was about £5,000,000 short
of expenditure. And others are reap-
ing the harvest of objurgation that
Stevens sowed. “Tax and grow fat” is
one prescription for building up robust
health.
“Conscious of increasing isolation
from the mass of student opinion,” the
Sydney University branch of the League
of Nations Union is disbanding. The
Union itself is carrying on with a Can-
berra subsidy. Canberra grants subsi-
dies with a lavish hand even in war-time,
and however useless the object subsidised.
A distinguished newspaper proprietor
with interests in four States has two aver-
sions: (1) Menzies ; (2) Cameron. One of
the journals which survived his passion
for “amalgamations” gleefully reports
that “the Country party is now split into
five sections,” and that if “disintegration
continues with the same rapidity it will
cease to have any real strength or im-
portance.” A thought by Wish out of
Big Cityism.
Latest emanation of the N. S. Wales
Public Inquiry industry is a neat little
14s. volume of 400 pages entitled “Select
Committee Report on Inquiry into
Working Conditions of Employees of
Board of Fire Commissioners.” There
are no colored plates, but an intriguing
table gives lists of firemen who were
granted special leave in 1937 to attend
funerals, weddings, gift evenings, tennis-
association balls, band contests and the
dentist. This occupies 3| pages among
144 devoted to tables of a similar type.


DEAR OLD PALS, JOLLY OLD PALS!


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £28,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,200,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
WAR PRICES AND PROFITS
INVESTMENT PROSPECTS
THE GOLD QUESTION
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
October Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21 - PER COPY, or £11216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
SECURITY FOR
YOUR SAVINGS...
Careful investors will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
shares of 20 Companies.
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write far a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V„V, G P 0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
PERSONAL ITEMS
Maoriland Judge John Reed, retired
after 18 years on the Bench, is a Queens-
lander, born in Ipswich in 1864. He was
educated at Auckland Grammar School,
Victoria College, and Jersey and Clare
College, Cambridge. He was admitted
to the M.L. Bar in 1887, and first prac-
tised in the Bay of Islands. He went to
Auckland in 1896 and took silk in 1913.
He takes a keen interest in volunteering,
and has done good service in connection
with the Territorials. A knighthood came
his way a couple of years ago.
“R.V.”: For the last 12 months Vic-
torian listeners to 3UZ have heard every
Sunday night a dissertation on military
and political moves in international affairs
by an anonymous speaker who called
himself “The Sentinel,” and who seemed
to know something about it. “The Senti-
nel” has now gone off the air. He was
General Blarney.
Should the Fellowship of Australian
Writers ever decide to establish a branch
in England there is plenty of material
available in the shape of Australian-born
authors resident in the Old Country.
Sydney-born Prof. Gilbert Murray, one
of the foremost Greek scholars in Eng-
land, would make an ideal president if
he didn’t think that his 73 years were a
handicap. Frank Fox, once of The Bul-
letin and first editor of the “Lone
Hand,” would make a bustling secretary.
Among those who could lend weight to
an English F.A.W. would be Henry
Handel Richardson, Dale Collins, Helen
Simpson, Christina Stead, Phillip and
Jack Lindsay, W. J. Turner, Jack Mc-
Laren, Harrison Owen, Martin Mills,
Patrick White, Alice Grant Rosman,
Charles Rodda and Alan Villiers. Invi-
tations to join could be extended to
Albert Dorrington and Will H. Ogilvie,
who both spent many years and wrote in
Australia. The first meeting of such a
branch if it could be organised could
very well be devoted to the discussion of
why authors leave home.
A.W. HICKS, recently appointed to
N.S. Wales Public Service Board.
Dead in Adelaide, Dr. Gertrude
Halley. She was the daughter of a Pres-
byterian meenister, was educated at the
P.L.C., Melbourne, qualified at Melbourne
University, went to London for experi-
ence and then practised in Shanghai. Re-
turning to Melbourne, she went into part-
nership with Dr. Kent Hughes. She gave
up private practice for medical inspection
of schools, put the movement on its feet
in the Speck, and then did the same for
child medical service in South Australia.
She was the S.A. Education Department’s
first medical inspector.
Though he’s a staunch Anglican and
listened to with respect in Synod, Dean
Walter Berry, of Adelaide, is not a
D.W. BERRY.
parson, the Dean coming to him at the
baptismal font. He’s an architect, recently
elected president of the S.A.I.A. At
35 he has been a member of
the council of the institute for eight
years, and was its secretary for seven
years. He designed the Centennial Hall
and other important buildings, is a mem-
ber of the executive committee of the
C. of E. Boys’ Home and secretary of
the C. of E. Arts and Crafts Committee
in his State. A keen golfer, but not
likely to give up tennis for many years
yet.
“C.Q.R.”: Old Charlie Loch, who
passed out at Emerald (Q.) at 85, had
hard luck —he would probably have been
a centenarian if he had not been thrown
off a skittish horse last year. A native
of Goonoogoonoo (N.S.W.), he set out
to see the world in the late ’sixties, and
in ’77 turned up at St. Lawrence (N.Q.)
and started in the carrying trade when it
was an adventurer’s game. He carried
some of the first loads of wool which
came out of the richest grazing areas of
Central Queensland. When nobody else
was game • in the big droughts of the
’eighties, Charlie was always there with
his wagons. He bought Moodewarra,
near Emerald, more than 50 years ago,
was smashed by succeeding drought and
flood during the last war, rose gallantly
from the wreckage and died remembered
as a splendid citizen whose hand was
always in his pocket, and who had always
time to give to public affairs. His sons
carry on his tradition.
Vic. charities got some windfalls last
week. The late E. L. M. Baillieu cut up
for £416,577, four-fifths of which goes
to his brothers and nephews, and one-
fifth to an institution to be selected which
educates the youths of the State.
Executors are instructed to continue to
race his champion horse Ajax. Cancer
research gets a gift from the estate of
Emanuel Abrahams, who left £135,007.
Robertson and Mullens, Melbourne,
have just published a book of recollec-
tions by R. H. Croll, a goldmine of
bright anecdotes about people who write
or sketch. Croll, a Stawell (Vic.) native
in his 70th year, has shaken hands or ex-
changed letters with the majority of
Australia’s scribblers and daubers. A
civil servant —he has been with the Vic.
Education Dept, since 1892 —he has a
wide range of interests, an equally wide
range of honorary jobs, and eight or nine
books to his credit. He is a stalwart of
the Vic. Anthropological Soc., the Field
Naturalists’ Club, the Royal Austra-
lasian Ornithologists’ Union, the Vic.
Athletic Association and Melbourne
Walking Club. He is secretary of the
Australian Academy of Arts, was
assistant editor of the “Emu,” a bird-
lover’s journal, has wandered far and
wide in Central Australia, and is an
ardent collector of Australian books,
pictures and bookplates.
“El V.” on one of Britain’s fieriest
generals:
One of the refugees dredged up from the
slather of blood which used to be called Poland
is Britain’s most cosmopolitan general and one
of the very few Continentals to win the V.C.,
Adrian Carton de Wiart, scion of an aristo-
cratic Belgian financial and diplomatic family,
all of whom have a Three Musketeers touch
about them and connections which make them
free of all Europe. Born in Brussels like his
near relatives, Edmund and Henry, both lead-
ing diplomats, he graduated to the 4th
Dragoons by way of school in Neville Cham-
berlain’s suburb of Birmingham, Edgbaston,
and Balliol College, Oxford. He married into
the medieval financial Fugger family, fought
in S. Africa and was twice wounded, in
Somaliland in the early years of the last war,
where he was severely wounded, and in the
European war, in which he was eight times
wounded, lost an arm, won the V.C., D. 5.0.,
C.M.G. and C.B. He retired in 1923 somewhat
indignant that there were no more wars; then,
a linguist who spoke most European lan-
guages, retired to Poland to help Pilsudski in
the only country in which a man could then
find a bit of real excitement. When the present
scrap started he was attached officially to the
Polish Army as head of the British Military
Mission.
Dead in Adelaide, Miss Lucy Bull,
within three days of her 95th milestone.
Born at Balhannah, S.A., the second
daughter of John Wrathall Bull, she was
a doughty battler for
her father’s recognition
as the inventor of the
reaping machine. Dr.
George Sutton, late
Director of Agriculture
in W.A., who investi-
gated the subject, pub-
lished a pamphlet in
which he stated that
John Ridley built the
first machine from the
design of Bull’s model
exhibited at Payne’s
Hotel (now the Ex-
change) in 1843.
Collecting insects,
reptiles and plants for
the Victorian National
Museum on the islands
off North Arnhem Land
is Charles Barrett. For
many years he has been
Melbourne “Herald’s”
office naturalist, but he
has refreshed his ex-
perience by numerous
expeditions into the in-
terior. He is the author
of a raft of books on
ornithological subjects,
and was for seven years
co-editor of the Orni-
thological Society’s
“Emu.” An expert
color photographer, he
hopes to get pictures of
hitherto unseen native ceremonies. An-
other of his dreams is to snare specimens
of the flying dragon of those parts —a
lizard that volplanes.
William Duff us Hunt, dead in Wel-
lington, M.L., at 72, was born in the
Waikato, and started work as a rouse-
about on an Otago sheep station of
which he afterwards became manager.
He joined Wright, Stephenson’s loan
and agency business in 1891, and opened
up branches in various parts of M.L-
Services on royal commissions earned
him a knighthood in 1932.
Edwin Van-der-Vord Nixon, C.M.G-,
the latest appointee to the Government’s
war-time army of business advisers, owes
his middle name to the circumstance that
his parents were Channel Islanders. He
was born in Jersey in 1876, came to Aus-
tralia early in life, and was educated at
Brisbane. He is senior lecturer on ac-
countancy at Melbourne Uni., has sat on
a multitude of royal commissions, and
is a director of numerous companies. He
will be consultant to the Contract Board
of the Minister of Supply’s department.
Dead at 77 Prof. Charles William Eger-
ton, who for 40 years held the Chair
of English in Auckland University. A
native of Liverpool, he graduated at
Trinity College, Dublin. He took the
gold medal for literature in 1885, and
was awarded the vice-chancellor’s prize
for prose composition in 1889. He was
appointed lecturer on English language
and literature in Queen Margaret Col-
lege, Glasgow, in 1890. The call to Auck-
land came in 1894. About to retire
in 1932, he yielded to pressure and
stayed on another year. His hobbies were
music (he played the ’cello), tennis and
bowls.
The latest recruit to the journalistic
army of the Australian Ministry of In-
formation is C. R. Banfield. He goes
from the job of news editor of the
“Argus” in Melbourne.
Frith has been taking a look at The
Bulletin’s newest neighbor, Stan
McCabe, who has moved in next door in
George-street to open up a sports store
with Bill O’Reilly. The young man first
came to Sydney from Grenfell to school
at St. Joseph’s College. He learnt cricket,
and cricket has kept him in the city
since, except for three or four trips
abroad. He was 18 when he had his first
game with the N.S.W. side in 1928, and
he went to England in 1930 for his first
Test. As his cricket scores have gone up
STAN McCABE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
his golf handicap has come down—
thanks partly to Jim Ferrier (they’re both
Manly club members) —and his hair’s
got still thinner. McCabe’s best-re-
membered knock was the 187 he put to-
gether while Larwood pounded ’em down
at Sydney Cricket Ground in 1932, but
there have been plenty of other good
ones, and those who like the game
thank cricket gods chiefly that the little
fellow never sits on the splice.


m
,TTi7rtrfi|ifW
%
A
1
!«*
<P
ml
/
\
st:
i#«
ff| 'A
7i %
ii m
'i
i
.
m
ms
6\
t%P
sat
me.
««
9^B
ijt3.
\v%?
%
VA
ss
V,
m
m
>*
I
CSik
Sr
0^
9
ĸ


ABORIGINALITIES
“Carlo”: Those tight-fisted cockies
who have been paraded through these
pages are reckless spendthrifts compared
with old McHaggis next door. He
always melts butter before spreading it
with a fly-spray. A keen gardener, he is
the proud possessor of a wheelbarrow
with handles at both ends. When it’s
filled with weeds, etc., he yells for his
wife, and they carry the barrow,
stretcherwise, thus saving wear on the
wheel. The other day I found him with
both hands heavily bandaged. “Hullo!
What’s up?” I asked. “Och, I got an
expensive pair of new boots yesterday,”
he moaned wearily. “This mornin’ I
was takin’ a bit walk roon’ the yard wi’
them on when I trod on some glass.”
* * * *
“Yarra Ben”: Never mind where flies
go in the winter ; but what do insect-
eating birds eat during that lean period?
One kookaburra in Melbourne’s Fitzroy
Gardens reverts to his ancient kingfisher
ancestry and plunges in head first for
his dinner. Perched on a high central
ledge of a great round fountain, he
watches for a good choice among the
cultivated red carp. Then with a quick
dive he goes under, sweeping back up
on to the ledge to put an end to the
futile wriggling of the catch.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “The rabbits wus
cornin’ at me frum all sides,” said old
Speargrass, “so I gets busy an’ wire-
nets me fences. The rabbits ’ops up an’
down along the fence fer a bit, then the
ones on the inside starts burrerin’ out, an’
them on the outside burrers in, w’ich is
a way rabbits ’ave ; so I ain’t much better
orf. One day up comes the Gov’ment
inspector, an’ ’e ses ter me: ‘Yer flamin’
place is overrun with rabbits an’ ’oney-
combed with burrers. W’y don’t yer git
busy an’ dig ’em out?’ ‘’Ave a ’eart,
mister,’ ses I. ‘lf a bloke ’ad as many
lives as Methusaler ’e’d use ’em all up
diggin’ them burrers out.’ ‘Orright,’ ses
’e, ‘l’ll send yer out one o’ them ’sfyxia-
tors an’ some dope, so yer can suffercate
’em in the burrers.’ W’en the ’sfyxiator
arrives I loads ’er up an’ lights ’er, an’
after pumpin’ about five minutes I opens
up the burrer ter see ’ow she’s sparkin’.
Every rabbit wus as dead as Judas’s
carrot—fourteen of ’em. they wus. I
reckon the job’s as good as done; but
nex’ day w’en I opens up a coupla more
burrers there ain’t a solit’ry rabbit in
either of ’em or in the next. The cunnin’
cows ’ad tumbled ter me lurk, an’ wus
all livin’ out in the tussocks an’ thissel-
beds be the river ; so I’m euchred agen.”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: “Wabbalee” is a bit
wabbly on his facts (B. 20/9/’39) when
he speaks of the wavy-grained blackbutt
or stringybark. The blackbutt is a moun-
tain ash. “Wavy-grained” is his own
name for the peculiarly beautiful mal-
formation which centuries ago was named
“fiddleback” by some delighted old
violin-maker who first used it for such
an obvious purpose. “Fiddleback” grows
anywhere and in any kind of tree, and
yet is rare. Fine specimens are to be
found in Victoria’s hilly country —a good
bushman can pick the tree without
trouble. Some day enterprising furni-
ture manufacturers will be paying up-
wards of £5OO a log for fiddleback. Then
will another veneer be added to our
already large variety of handsome Aus-
tralian woods.
* * * *
“Happy Eyre”: The quaint old gin
took my eye as she pottered round Yan-
rey sheep station, out from Onslow
(W.A.). Her work was mostly sweeping
the homestead and doing a bit of weed-
ing. Her ancient buck, stone blind, oc-
cupied a shack away from the outbuild-
ings. Although the abo. was not a
Yanrey pensioner, Dora, who had been
on the station 40 years, was given tucker
for both of them. Fifty years ago, when
“I tell you it ain’t Goring .”
Dora was a sprightly young gin, Gori-
margi, then a manly young buck, wanted
her, and she him. The tribal heads
vetoed it. Gorimargi was sent away and
Dora given to an old man. Years rolled
by. The station came into existence.
Dora became a house gin and then a
widow. By some means —possibly the
blacks’ telegraph—Dora heard that Gori-
margi was in the Kimberleys deserted and
blind. She told no one —just demanded
pinki (abos.’ holiday), then departed. How
far she travelled nobody ever knew, but
four months later she piloted Gorimargi
back. The boss said the old man would
have to go to the Government camp. But
old Dora’s pluck and persistence finally
won out, and the old chap was allowed
to stay. Did I hear someone remark that
romance and loyalty were the exclusive
perquisites of the white race?
* * * *
“Waranbini”: The best cook I ever
struck on the overland was “Feathers.”
He carried a gun on the wagonette, and
was always on the lookout for game ; he
didn’t feel that he had done us justice
if he hadn’t a three-course meal ready
by sundown. Now and again he got a
turkey or a brace of ducks. Hitching
the reins in front of him or to his leg, he
plucked the game as the horses jogged
along, strewing feathers on the road for
miles —that was how he got his name.
Any drover following behind knew that
Feathers was cooking for the drovers in
front. When he got _to the camp the
game was ready to go into the pot or the
camp-oven. At the end of one trip, when
the “babbler” was a bit merry, the
drovers were praising him for the way
he had kept them supplied with soup.
“There was plenty of game,” said
Feathers modestly. “Only twice I had to
fall back on crow.”
* * * *
“Mulgo”: Brogan, the wayside publi-
can, could neither read nor write. Among
his regular customers were four squatters
who paid with cheques once a month.
Behind the bar Brogan kept a heap of
dead wooden matches, gathered from the
floor, and two bars of household soap,
each divided into two sections, which
were marked with the respective brands
of the squatters. When he had to put
down four drinks to Mr. Stockwhip, he
stuck four matches in the section bearing
that gentleman’s brand, and so on with
the rest. At settling-time the soap
bristled like porcupines, but there was
never any dispute when Brogan or his
missus counted the matches on the
counter. One washing-day, while Brogan
was away, the women were looking for
soap, and the gin-of-all-work seized a
quarter of the publican’s ledger. Brogan
discovered the loss the next day.
“Dammit, woman,” he said. “You’ve
gone an’ washed with Greenhide’s drink
account.”
* * * *
“Hereford”: Repeatedly I’ve seen this
happen among a mob of cows with
young calves, out on the downs in dingo
country, when the mothers have wanted
a drink and the offspring have been too
small to paddle in after them. All the
cows but one will stroll off, leaving
their babies behind under the care of the
guardian, who invariably has a calf
of her own. She’ll certainly show her
own piccaninny a bit of favoritism ; but
she won’t molest the other little blokes
left in her charge That matron stands
guard all the while, head up on the look-
out foi danger, and she’s fighting-mad
from the minute the other mothers go
until they return and she is free to go
and get her issue. The communal ar-
rangement seems to be worked out be-
forehand, for there is never confusion.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: I found Henare
busy pouring some cochineal over coarse
salt that he had in a small box. “What’s
the big idea?” I inquired. Henare
sighed. “Te sheep I buy off te high
country farm t’ink te coarse salt is just
snow,” he said. “Now I color it all te
same te birthday cake, an’ hope for te
best.”
H* H*
“Dukun”: How strong the ancient
Maori religion still is is shown by the
fact that the Christian village where six
children • were burned to death recently
has been declared taboo and evacuated
by the population. A similar custom runs
right through Polynesia, Malaya and
parts of India. The Jakuns, an aboriginal
tribe of the Malay Peninsula, evacuate
their villages immediately a death occurs,
whether from disease, accident or natural
causes. The result is that their villages
are of the most primitive description,
and most of them are continuously occu-
pied for seldom more than a few years.
The theory is that the house where the
death occurred is coveted by the spirits,
which will claim more victims if the
notice of eviction is treated with indiffer-
ence.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Of all the cantankerous
frauds that ever traded on an undeserved
reputation for thrift and industry, bees
are the worst. Except for making honey,
a highly expensive and very inferior
sweetening agent compared with sugar,
they are not only useless but a dangerous
public nuisance, and a flagrant example
of bad social morality as well. A hive
of bees is nothing but a collection of
nasty-tempered old maids, who thrust
on one unfortunate female the whole
duty of reproduction, maintain idle
gigolos and flappers to take on the job
when she wears out, and bring up 99.5
p.c. of her offspring to be either old
maids or gigolos. If tucker runs short
they murder the unlucky males and put
the infants on short commons long be-
fore they take a reef in their own appe-
tites. None but utter fools would go on
collecting and storing honey year after
year merely to see it taken away. Yes,
thanks, the bluebag has eased the pain
a lot.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Wandering a W.A. beach
I came on a school of bivalves out walk-
ing. Few of the tribe do this ; the oyster,
the mussel, the clam, all after a short
roving career as spat, take hold of some-
thing and stay anchored for the rest of
their natural. But these little chaps, not
larger than a threepenny-bit and resembling
cockles, have a foot. Slightly the shells
opened, the foot shot out, and its owner
skidded a fraction
of an inch along
the wet sand.
Periodically as a
wave swept up
they disappeared ;
but at the instant
of its recession
were up and off
again. So they
pushed along much
like several hundred
one-legged men all
anxious to get
somewhere. Uni-
valves, of course,
are noted walkers.
Take the W.A.
mutton-fish, cousin
to the limpet. At
high tide a beach
reef will be studded
with them, hoary
fellows half the
size of a man’s fist.
At low tide the
spot will be bare.
The muttony both
fastens on and
walks by means of
a powerful sucker.
Almost impercep-
tibly this sucker
inches along, carry-
ing the shell with
it. Some beach-
combers hold that
the muttony also
swims with it, but of that there is no
positive proof. But reefs will be found
altogether bare, both at high and low
tide, with no sign of the shellfish within
half a mile, yet a couple of tides later
the same reef will be well stocked.
* * * *
Stand up, “Dick Tafone”! In B.
20/9/’39 there was published, in all good
faith, a par. of yours concerning certain
dietetic experiments in Queensland. “The
demonstrators,” you wrote, “were two
white rats of identical age, named, for
the occasion, Dopey Dan and Hector the
Hero.”
All went to schedule for five weeks, when
Hector began to put on quite unexpected
weight and girth in spite of the altered diet.
The grave doubts which began to loom up
about vitamins were solved by Hector —
eight times, in fact. Hector proved indis-
putably that his name should have been
Hettie. Dan’s alleged dopiness is now con-
sidered to have been low deceitfulness.
It is now learned, on the highest official
authority, that the circumstantial narra-
tive had “no foundation whatever in
fact.” It was far from The Bulletin’s
intention to “cast unworthy reflections
upon the reliability of scientific work
conducted by the Queensland Nutrition
Council and by the University,” and, now
that it is acquainted with the facts of the
useful experiments, it apologises to all
concerned. But not to you, “Dick
Tafone,” you low slanderer of white rats
—white rats of regular habits and un-
blemished morals. “Dick Tafone,” stand
down!
THE WHEEL.
As on a road, a nameless road,
Beneath high stars I strayed,
I chanced upon a wayside group
In motley garb arrayed.
Dead trees stood round their camping-place,
Trees bare of leaf and bark,
And on each camper’s face Defeat
Had left his chisel-mark.
As I drew near their camping-place,
That knew not blade nor stem,
With waving hand and hailing voice
They bade me bide with them.
Ten paces from their fire I stood,
A lonesome traveller
Upon that nameless, aimless road —
And asked them who they were.
With one accord they answer made,
One-voiced they all replied—
“We ,are those folk of no account
Whom life has cast aside.”
Eyes downward looking, faces pale,
They cried in company—
“ These lifeless trees that ring us round
Are not more dead than we.”
They paused awhile, and then they said,
What time their eyes dull-glowed— ,
“There rolls a wheel, a ceaseless wheel,
Upon an endless road.
“Round, round, and round that great wheel
goes,
For ever circling thus:
We are but dust upon that wheel —
Naught cares that wheel for us.
“Grey dust were we upon the road
When it came whirling by
And caught us up; grey dust, anon,
Upon that road we’ll lie.
“We care not whither it may speed,
Indifferent we are
To what may be its destined goal—
What quagmire or what star.
“Dust, dust are we—dust on a wheel —
And willy-nilly we
Must turn with it —wherefore, step in
And join our company.”
I saw high stars by them unseen,
And quitting them I strode
Along that road, that was to me
No nameless, aimless road.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


“ HAERE-MAI" (1939).
“H.J.S.”: You can’t beat an enthusi-
astic unionist for blind faith. During
crib some underground workers were in-
dulging in leg-pulling as to the ultimate
result of the war. “Well,” said one, “it
won’t be long before you are all working
in these mines for a ‘bob’ a day under
foreign bosses.” “Yairs?” came the reply.
“And what do you think the union will
be doing?”
* sfc # %
“Gravelsnatcher”: For the next few
months millions of W.A.’s most efficient
insect-catchers will be at work. Ranging
in size from about a quarter of an inch
across to giants measuring an inch and
a half, these flowers, colloquially desig-
nated “fly-catchers,” must account for an
incalculable number each year. Varieties
vary in color, but all are similar in shape
and modus operandi. Two large petals
form an angle of 60deg. between them at
one end ; two smaller petals are similarly
placed at the other. At the junction of
the four petals is a small cup of dew
from which a sponge-tipped tongue curls
back between the larger petals, to spring
back and strike the insect that settles on
the cup, gradually returning to its former
position when the meal is disposed of.
The motive power for the accurate strike
appears to be a lightning nervous reaction
to the slightest pressure on the hairs sur-
rounding the cup. The flowers are man’s
allies, but for treachery to established
principles they must rank somewhere
between Stalin and Hitler. They simply
convert to a murderous use a bait which
all other fjbwers employ to ensure the
survival of their species. What provision
can the flower make for fertilisation of
the pollen, having murdered the friend
who would have carried out that duty?
* * * *
“A.M.C.”: The recently-mentioned
old bush custom of bedding the fire for
the night is still practised in some places,
one of the most popular woods used being
that peculiar fruit-tree the wild cherry.
With that it is unnecessary to heap ashes
on it, as when the first man up in the
morning arrives at the fire he will find a
solid mass of glowing red coals, often
still more or less in the shape of the
chunk put on the night before. A kick
with a boot-heel will give him a glowing
bed of coals which will quickly boil the
billy or set fire to the largest log. In
some cold localities it is considered a
crime to use cherrywood for anything
else but a night log, and woe betide the
chap who uses the babbler’s private stock
for anything else.
* * * *
“Sandgroper”: The smart Alec life-
of-the-party propounded the (to him) ab-
solutely ridiculous query “Do prawns
make good mothers?” I was able to
assure him they did —few better! It’s odd
the way the female crustacean raises her
family under her tail. Starting from the
thinnest spattering of spawn the eggs
grow until they arrive at minute exact
replicas of their parent, all the time, how-
ever, encased in a gelatinous bag. Then
each tiny bag bursts and the infant crus-
tacean swims away to begin an indepen-
dent existence. I have found shrimps so
tiny as to need observation through a
magnifying glass, and they were following
the same round of reproduction. I have
lifted huge crays loaded down in the
same way with young —and, of course,
have thrown them back. Little wonder
that crustacean life should so crowd the
seas when Nature has endowed the
species with such a faculty of protective
motherhood. Different entirely from the
fish that leave their spawn floating en-
tirely unprotected—to be devoured by
the million by crustaceans and other fish
before given even the chance to hatch
out.
* * * *
“Bop”: The Stony Creek fire engine
(converted from an old T model Ford)
came chugging down Stony Creek’s main
(and only) street to where the only pub
within miles was ablaze, watched
anxiously by the entire population.
Within a few minutes the pub was being
drenched by hoses manned by the galiant
brigade. Old Bony, the hard-case,
accosted the chief in charge of opera-
tions. “D’ye think you’ll save the pub?”
“Almost sure to,” replied the fireman.
“Well, how about playin’ the hose on the
slate behind the door?” he requested.
# * * *
“Wang”: “An ole cocky I noo once,”
remarked Dan, “had a dog what wus a
champeen at chasin’ his own tail. He
cud go spinnin’ round fer ten minits
at a time without stoppin’; seemed t’
got a helluva lota fun outa it. Then
the cocky noticed that sev’ral of his fruit-
trees wus dyin’,' an’ on examination
found they wus ringbarked ’bout a foot
from the ground. He blamed rabbits, till
he saw the tyke chasin’ his tail round
an apple-tree one day. He wus right in
agen the tree-butt, an’ the brass knobs on
his collar had cut the bark through. He
wus rushin’ up t’ the house t’ get a gun
t’ shoot the dog when I saw him stop
sudden. He’s got' a brainwave, he tells
me. He gets busy, an’ rigs up a collar
with long sharp steel spikes fixed in it;
reckons it’s gonna save him quids in
wages. He fastens it round the dog’s
neck an’ let’s ’im loose among a paddock
o’ bluegums he wants ringbarkin’. It
wus a great idear, all right. In less than
a week Towser has ringbarked a good
ten acres. But it would ’a’ been better fer
that cocky if he’d shot the mong when
he intended to. It put him in horspital
for six munce. How? Well, one day
the dog got that interested chasin’ his tail
round a tree that he sawed it right
through, an’ in failin’ it belted the cocky
on the melon.”
* * * *
“Billimilla”: Gus Machattie, one of
the oldest pioneers of East Kimberley,
had the cheapest and most efficient sta-
tion storekeeper in Australia. When
Gus took up a block of country a few
miles off the goldfields road from Wynd-
ham to Hall’s Creek, he had a few head
of cattle running round the rivers near
the Denham. He worked on the adjoin-
ing stations most of the year, taking
cattle instead of wages. Then he would
“ Remember, boays , if un ’ear a black-out siren put candles out."
come home to muster and brand, and
head in his cattle to the waterholes and
good grass. A cave in the sandstone
ranges contained a nigger skeleton in per-
fect preservation. Before old Gus rode
out to find a job after “the wet,” he
carted up all his stores to the back of the
■ cave, and draped the skeleton in ghastly
posture across the entrance. There his
flour and jam were safe for ever from
the blacks, who would far rather get into
holts with a crocodile than pass the
framework of a tribal brother; and no
white man ever stumbled across it.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: N.Q. abos.’ employment
of two different species of boomerangs
to-day supports the contention of
“Anthropop” (B. 2/8/’39) that different
terrains dictate Binghi’s choice of the
boomerang. Along Cape Yorke Penin-
sula, where the luxuriant growth of
coarse grasses too often conceals the
quarry from the stalker, he uses two
types. One which he knows as the
“hawk,” a right-angled Weapon which
from its floating trajectory resembles
that bird in flight, is used to start up
the winged quarry from the grass. The
other, obtusely angular in design, is the
killing weapon.
* * * *
“D. 0.”: Those Abo. firelighters who
have aired their knowledge in these pages
of how to get a blaze going in wet
weather apparently have never tried it in
a tropical mountain rain forest. Writer
knows of two scientists who spent a very
chilly week some five thousand feet up
because one claimed to be a bushman
who could get a fire going anytime or
anywhere, and induced his fellow-ex-
plorer to leave the primus at sea-level.
A real tropical growth of ferns, etc., and
almost constant rain and cloud will rot
the softwoods which compose such
forests in a Very short time, whether
the dead trees are fallen or standing, and
moss and fungi will keep the soft, pulpy
stuff wet till the next downpour. The
“scientist bushman” had ideas about
getting dry wood out of the heart of a
3ft. log, but two or three blows with an
axe, generally enough to cut right
through such a log, in the spongy pulp
convinced him there was no such thing
as dry wood anywhere thereabouts.
Elsewhere in another tropical rain forest
writer has seen natives manage to boil
the billy by using kauri gum, as recently
mentioned on this page, and pandanus
leaves vigorously thrashed against a tree
to shake out moisture. To remain
camped up there it was necessary to have
wood carried up from lower and less
damp areas.
* $ $ &
“Billy See”: Are there men really
gifted as horse wizards? Came across a
suburban street scene, a jibbing horse
attached to a woodcart. There were the
usual crowd, the exasperated driver and
the usual methods. Matters had gone so
far that one resident had departed to ring
up the police to come and stop the flog-
ging with which the stubborn equine was
being assailed—a flogging that was bring-
ing no other result than an impatient
shake of the equine head. There was
even an idiot who advised, “Drop a little
stone in his ear,
that’ll make him
go.” The driver’s
offsider was look-
ing for a nice little
stone when an
ancient driving a
bottle-oh cart ar-
rived. “What’s ther
matter horse
won’t go?” De-
scending wheezily,
he waved the flagel-
lating driver aside.
“Let me have a go
at him.” Taking
the jib’s head he
gently stroked his
nose and whispered
a few words. “He’s
right now. Get up
and take the reins,”
he instructed the
driver. Then with
a “Come on, boy,”
he led the now-
willing horse a few
yards, gave him a
final pat and sent
him on his way.
“How do you do
it?” asked the
policeman who at
that moment ar-
rived. “Dunn o,”
said the ancient. “I
just always had
that way with
horses.”


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
ķ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer,
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building. 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 149,755 5i p.c. =127,882 21,873 392,712
1930.. 162,726 6 „ „ 139,508 23,218 415,930
1931.. 112,756 4 „ „ 93,005 19,751 435,651
1932.. 119,427 4* „ ~ 104,631 14,796 450,477
1933.. 126,243 5 „ „ 116,257 9,986 460,463
1934.. 149,489 6 „ „ 139,508 9,981 470,444
1935.. 149,051 6 „ „ 139,508 10,143 480,587
1936.. 149,312 6 „ „ 189,503 9,804 490,391
1937.. 173,003 7 „ „ 162,759 10,244 500,635
1938.. 182,927 7 „ „ 162,759 20,168 520,803
1939.. 201,610 74 „ ~ 174,385 27,225 548,028
The Bundaleer, a new 4238-ton cargo
ship, took up the running in May, mak-
ing total vessels in the fleet 30, and
aggregate gross tonnage 76,694. Of the
fleet two, Manoora and Manunda, are in
the inter-State passenger service, while
three others (two on Spencer’s Gulf and
one on Port Phillip) carry passengers, and
the balance handles cargo, including
sugar under contract with the C.S.R.
Earnings of the fleet are supplemented
by takings from tugs, lighters, etc., and
by pickings from a number of outside
sources. These sources include a fine
wad of Government securities, deben-
tures and cash (£834,972 at June 30), as
well as 526,000-odd £1 shares in the
clumsily-named J. and A. Brown and
Abermain Seaham Collieries (paid capital
£1,900,007), which will pay 5 p.c. for the
year to June 30 last as against 3 p.c. and
2y p.c. for the two previous terms.
Among other interests are control of the
Waratah Tug and Salvage Co., operating
at Sydney and Newcastle, an unstated
holding with Birt and Co. in the New-
stead Wharves and Stevedoring Co., Bris-
bane, and an equal interest (49,998
shares) with Huddart Parker, Union
Steam, Orient Steam and Holyman Bros,
in Australian National Airways.
Last term all the co.’s ships were kept
busy handling an increased volume of
passenger and cargo traffic, and there
were no holdups on the waterfront. After
providing for contingencies, the board
figured net earnings at £176,610 (up
£13,683). That was after dropping
£15,000 (up £5000) into the insurance
account (£325,000) and £lO,OOO (same as
previous term) into the repairs, renewals
and replacement reserve (£220,000). The
“Wild Cat” believes these additions to
be genuine profit, and treats them accord-
ingly, making the year’s net earnings
equal to 8.6 p.c. on capital as against
7.8, 7.4, 6.4, 6.4, 6.3, 5.4, 5.1 and 4.8 p.c.
back to 1931. Half a point was added to
the div., making 1\ p.c. for the year, the
final being at the rate of 8 p.c. p.a.
The war isn’t likely to bring shrinkage
in the volume of inter-State cargoes, and
the fact that the Navy has taken over
some coastal craft has increased the
volume of business available for the re-
mainder. No ships have yet been lost to
the enemy in Australian waters. Marine
insurance premiums on inter-State risks,
however, have gone up with a jump, and
freight rates have been lifted to cover,
or help cover, them. Shipowners operat-
ing in State coastal waters have not yet
considered it necessary to insure against
war risks. The placing of shipping fares
and freights within the framework of
the Federal Government’s price-control
scheme won’t solve the problem from the
public’s point of view either. Unless
something unexpected happens, 8 p.c.
should not prove beyond the co.’s reach
at next balance, despite the lift in taxes
and other costs.
Finances are snug:
1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital . . £2,325,135 £2,325,135 £2,325,135
Sundry creditors. . 74,236 168,841 107,417
Provident fund . . 239,656 231,893 132,942
Steamers, properties,
etc 1,322,532 1,495,745 1,560,255
Shares in subsidiaries 136,500 ,136,500 136,500
S'tocks and stores 42,729 54,505 54,452
Book debts and in-
vestments . . 408,520 628,398 620,347
Consols, cash, etc. 1,279,089 1,024,528 834,972
A reduction of £98,951 in the provident
fund, of £61,424 in the amount coming
to sundry creditors and a net addition of
£64,510 in ship property, etc., were
accompanied by a contraction of £189,556
in Consols, cash, etc. The year’s shrink-
age in the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,269,412, excluding shares in sub-
sidiaries) was £37,285.
The market prices the pound shares,
covered by 245. Bd. in net tangibles, at
345. 3d. as against 335. a year ago. The
return at the higher figure is 4.4 p.c. on a
74 p.c. div. basis, or 4.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
distribution.
Australian Knitting Mills, Ltd.
Dividends. To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. and Ord. serves. Reserves.
1929.. 67,806 10 p.c. = 50,000 17,806 146,887
1930.. 51,980 8 „ ~ 40,000 11,980 158,867
1931.. 31,003 5* ~ „ 27.221 3,782 162,649
1932.. 27,138 5* „ ~ 27,750 162,037
July,
1933 t. 24,538 5* „ „ 27,750 158,825
Profit on sale of shares, £BBO3 .. 167,628
1934.. 59,445 74 p.c. = 41,312 18,133 185,761
1935.. 39,594 7* ~ ~38,550 1,344 187,105
1936.. 28,054 7* ~ ~ 32,583 182,576
Unexplained addition, £1708.. .. 184,284
1937.. 19,070 7-i* p.c.= 14,906 4,164 188,448
1938.'. 18,848 7i* „ ~14,906 3,942 192,390
1939.. 17,656 71* „ ~14,906 2,750 195,140
*Prefs. 74 p.c. tThirteen months.
About three years ago the co., which used
to be one of the Yarra Falls-A.K.M. tex-
tile group, decided to abandon its policy
of alliances for one of isolation. So it
distributed among those on the register
by way of return of capital its holding
of 308,000 f.-p. pound ords. in Yarra
Falls, 25,000 f.-p. £1 shares in Austral
Silk and Cotton, and £10,750 cash;
together £343,750, or 12s. 6d. per A.K.M.
share. That reduced paid capital to its
present figure (£206,250) in 10,000 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 540,000 ords., all of 7s.
6d. each. It also left the co.’s earnings de-
pendent upon the output and sale off its
factory products—fine-knitted woollen
and artificial-silk underwear, etc., for
men, women and children —to which full-
fashioned silk hosiery was added about
18 months ago.
Aggregate plant capacity for produc-
tion of fine woollens and hosiery in
Australia is capable of taking care of a
much larger demand than has thus far
been experienced. Among other things,
this means keen selling prices and narrow
profit margins. During the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, competi-
tion became aggressive, especially in the
hosiery section, where a shading of sell-
ing prices has been accompanied by a
rise of over 50 p.c. in the price of raw
silk. The cost of other materials and
wages increased, too. So, although the
1938 figures had to bear some non-
recurring expenditure connected with the
installation of hosiery plant from which
they got little benefit, the 1939 profit
was £1192 lighter at £17,656. This was
enough to pay the small pref. div. (£281)
and show 8.5 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 9.1, 10.1, 6, 7.2, 10.8 and 4.4
p.c. back to 1933. The div. was kept at
7j p.c.
As for the current term, the outlook
on the demand side seems bright enough,
but there have been stinging increases
in taxation, and costs generally are on
the up-grade. Much will depend upon
the course of competition.
Flere are balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £550,000 £206,250 £206,250 £206,250
Liabilities .. 22,525 45,313 67,133 24,231
Freeholds .. 109,511 112,602 112,840 110,104
Plant, etc. .. 72,005 101,699 102,042 96,397
Stocks.. .. 143,635 183,335 215,491 185.825
Book debts . . 45,520 49,750 42,177 29,985
Cash, etc. . . 15,998 442 1,040 11,325
Shaves in assoc.
cos. . . 384,936 198 198
Last term stocks were reduced by
£29,666 and debtors’ balances by £12,192,
while £42,902 was lopped off the outside
debt and the cash holding, etc., was
strengthened by £10,285. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£202,904) was £11,131.
The market prices the f.-p. 7s. 6d.
ords. at Bs. 3d. (9s. a year ago), at which
figure the return is 6.5 p.c. so long as the
1\ p.c. distribution continues. The well-
protected prefs. seldom come on to the
market. The net tangible cover is over
£4O per pref. share and 14s. 9d. for ords.
McWhirters, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net _ To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1929.. 75,000 10 p.c. = 55,000 20,000 115,000
1930.. 65,000 10 „ „ 55,000 10,000 125,000
1931.. 35,750 64,, ~ 35,750 125,000
1932.. 27,500 5 ~ „ 27,500 125,000
Loss.
1933.. 4,000 2 ~ „ 11,000 110,000
Profit.
1934.. 22,148 4 ~ „ 22,000 148 110,148
1935.. 26,200 44,, „ 24,750 1,450 111,598
1936.. 22,348 4i ~ „ 23,375 110,571
1937.. 23,331 4} ~ „ 23,375 110,527
1938.. 28.665 5 ~ ~ 27,500 1.165 111,692
1939.. 31,428 5 ~ „ 27,500 3,928 115,620
The co., which used to be a steady 10-
percenter, has an able management, as it
always has had ; and the store is in The
Valley, not long since the busiest shop-
ping area in Brisbane. The change came
about nine years ago, when the big break
in conditions brought increased competi-
tion from chain stores and others, and,
worst of all, a drift of the shopping public
to Queen-street. In these circumstances,
McWhirters has had to fight hard for
turnover, while margins have narrowed,
and, of course, earnings and divs, are not
what they used to be, though the posi-
tion is improving, as a glance at the table
shows.
Sales, both over the counter and by
mail order, continued to expand last term,
despite the fact that trading conditions
became increasingly difficult as the year
advanced. The spring in gross earnings
was £9051:
1928. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Gross profit. . £261,380 £166,779 £184,950 £194,001
Exes.* .. 186,379 140,431 149,785 153,756
Profit* '.. £75,001 £26,348 £35,165 £40,245
* Before providing for taxation.
Including provision for taxation (£8817),
exes, took all but £3763 of the gain,
leaving the net result at 5.7 p.c. on
capital, as against 5.2, 4.2, 4, 4.7, 4, a
loss, 5, 6.5, 11 and 13.6 p.c. back to
1929. The div. was kept at 5 p.c., and,
under existing conditions, it is doubtful
whether anything better need be looked
for.
The management, anticipating a short-
age of supplies in event of war in
Europe, bought heavily in overseas mar-
kets for cottons, linens, silk and rayon
goods long before the close of accounts.
It also stocked up with Australian-made
merchandise of which it considered there
might be a shortage. To-day the landed
cost of some lines is as much as 60 p.c.
more than the co. paid. This and other
things augur well for the current year’s
earnings ; costs are the unknown quan-
tity at the moment, and there has been a
100 p.c. increase in Federal company tax
—there was no further bleeding on behalf
of the State, as there has been in N. S.
Wales.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1930. 1932. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Overdraft . . 7,817 109,395 60,213 80.857
Creditors .. 50,153 37,917 45,552 41,650
Freehold and
plant . . 324.500 453,000 442,600 441,767
Stocks . . 296,908 262,092 *234,155 *248,613
Book debts . . 109,710 115,484 108,311 116,335
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 40,665 5,772 3,122 3,193
* Includes goods in transit, previously lumped with
cash, etc.
To carry an extra £14,458 of stocks, add
£8024 to debtors’ balances and reduce the
amount coming to sundry creditors by
£3902, the board went to its bankers for
an extra £20,674. Still, when the books
closed, more or less liquids exceeded out-
side liabilities by £245,604, up £5781 over
the twelvemonth.
Since the beginning of the year the
scrip has fluctuated between 15s. and
13s. 2d. on the market. The figure last
week-end was 13s. 5d., at which the
return is 7.4 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The cover is 245. 2d. in net tangibles.
Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
r ——Dividends ,
I'ret. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 20,435 4,000 8 p.c. = 16.000' 435 40,602
1930.. 16,260 4,000 6 ~ „ 12,000 260 40,862
Loss.
1931.. 6.027 2,000* Nil 32,835
1932.. 9,040 Nil Nil 23,795
1933.. 3,316 Nil Nil 20,479
1934.. 2.395 Nil Nil 18,084
1935.. 3.161. Nil Nil 14,923
Profit.
1936.. 3,527 Nil Nil 1 „ irl
Written off stock, £12,299.. \ ~
16 p.c.
1937.. 10,908 8,000 Nil 2908 9,059
20 p.c.
1938. .14,001 10,000 Nil 4001 13,060
1939. :12,319 10,000 Nil 2319 15,379
* Half-year.
Difficult to say exactly what the future
holds for the business. It was a steady
10 p.c. proposition for 13 years to the
close of accounts in 1925, with a bit
extra in the fattest periods. Then altera-
tions to the premises, to finance which
the co. went a bit into debt, caused dis-
location for a while, and the div. dropped
to 8 p.c. for the four years to 1929, and
to 6 p.c. in the following year. After that
a five-year patch of rough weather was
encountered, and the co. made leeway.
The outlook changed following altera-
tions in the management at the end of
1935, since when profits have been
earned ; arrears of pref. divs. are being
paid off, and the possibility of the ords.
getting a small return continues to im-
prove.
Last term turnover was slightly in
excess of the previous year’s, despite
adverse trading conditions. But increased
costs gobbled all the gains and more
besides, leaving net result £1682
lighter at £12,319. That was sufficient
to pay a year’s pref. div. (£4000) and
show 4.1 p.c. on the £200,000 of ord.
capital as against 5 p.c. for the previous
term. Actually, £lO,OOO was handed to
the prefs., reducing their arrears to £6OOO,
or 2s. 4d. per share.
As for the current term, there promises
to be more money about. But the Gov-
ernment will mop up most of the extra
spending power in taxes of one kind and
another and in loans, while costs will
continue to climb. So, although chances
of the prefs.’ slate being cleaned at the
end of the current term are encouraging,
it is too early yet to say when and to


i4/yn
n
he long hot days of summer—when so
much time is spent out-of-doors —are here.
Plan NOW to enjoy extra fun on your
Beach, picnic or week-end outing by buying
f J I I A . IX ** _ -* L I ® ma/Jlac
one of the new 1.4 volt
Many makes, many dif-
ferent models for you to
choose from.
'portable" radios.
■J or your next tennis
party what could be better
than a modern 1.4 volt
portable to provide music
between sets? Many makes,
many models for you to
choose from.
n
* ance, sing and enjoy
your week-end away from
home with a 1.4 volt port-
able radio. Easily, carried
because it is so light and
compact—always ready to
entertain you and your
friends.
14 Volt Models are Light-
Compact Require No Aerial
Power Point or Accumulator
Everywhere you 90 out-doors this season you will see one
of the sensational new 1.4 volt Portable Radios. Equipped
with the wonderful new 1.4 volt economy valves and
operated entirely from specially designed dry batteries
they are lighter and more compact than any other set
you have ever seen—require no power point, aerial or
accumulator, cost very little to run, and can be carried
and used anywhere. Just put it down and switch it on to
skim the cream of radio entertainment. In the bush, at
the seaside, even in the garden or as a "second" set
around the house a 1.4 volt Portable radio offers you and
your friends endless hours of fun and music, so see your
nearest radio dealer to-day and ask him to show you one
of the newest models—or write to Box 37, P. 0., Mascot,
for advance literature. Sent Free.
k
eVEREADy
W TJAD6 - MAJU4
EVEREADY C AUSTRALIA ) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY, N.S.JV.
ķ
POB
SUrfHft*
INSIST UPON
U6HI
ure
EVEREADy
TRADE - MARK
FLASHLIGHTS & BATTERIES
:
m
m
is
/*
P24A-1.116


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of' that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors'.
O. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND ■ W. G. HULL
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZO
m
*
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor— fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle
Superfine steel, ivory handle
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor,
3/G extra. Fits $ and | blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
INVESTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
jf; $ $ $
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 <3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
WHICH PATH
ARE YOU
TRAVELLING?
«ty
<M Mr
H
POVERTY
i ajraspi
LEJIMity
mmmm
ALL Young People in good health can
become members of the A.M.P.
Society, and, by weekly, monthly or
quarterly investment of small sums, make
immediate provision against the risk of
death while they are building up security
for their later years.
On an average one family in every
two in the Commonwealth and New
Zealand is now using the A.M.P. Society
in some measure to bring it content-
ment and security. ARE YOU? Are
you taking as much advantage of the
Society as you should?
The Society exists solely that its mem-
bers may use it to build up their assets.
It is the largest Mutual Life Office in
the Empire. Last year it distributed
£6,750,000 amongst its members or their
families.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. Office to send
you any or all of the following booklets,
which explain different phases of the
Society’s service to its members:
“Investing in Happiness.”
“Accept only the best in Life Assurance.”
“Life Assurance as an Asset.”
“Your children’s future,”
“Buying Money.”
“The Silent Partner.”
“For women: the way of independence.”
“A farmer’s experience of Life Assur-
ance.”
“Life Assurance v. other Investments.”
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
" QUALCAST "
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MOTOR
MOWER
k
JJ Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
Hundreds
have now
been sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qualcast" Lawnmowers
MODEL “H”: XOin. 12in. Win. 16in.
Bronze Bearing- .. 33/- 41/- 44/-
Ball Bearing .... 44/- 47/- 50/- 53/-
Super “7” Ball B. 56/- 60/- 64/-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY
ALL BEADING HARDWARE STORES
what extent the ords. will get into the
picture. Perhaps the greatest obstacle
in the co.’s path is the swing of the shop-
ping centre from Flinders-street to
Bourke-street.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1923. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities .. 86,327 183,352 207,298 208,521
Property .. 106,000 250,675 250,675 250,675
Plant, etc. .. 46,188 45,350 47,000 48,600
Stock.. .. 153,776 100,303 130,004 132,629
Book debts . . 69,833 42,975 53,879 53,221
Cash . . .. 8,202 200 200 821
Stocks (up £2625) are the vulner-
able point; they rppear at cost less
depreciation. When the books closed
outside liabilities, of which £115,000 is
mortgage loans, exceeded more or less
liquids by £21,850, an improvement of
£1365 over the twelvemonth. The float-
ing debt was approximately twice
covered.
Treating arrears of divs. as part return
of capital, the prefs. at 255. 3d. return
6.7 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis. The more
speculative ords. are priced at Bs. The
net tangible cover (book value) is £5 6s.
2d. prefs. and 21s. 6d. ords.
Kampong Lanjut Tin Dredging, Ltd.
This Malayan producer’s property,
which adjoins the Kuala Kampar area
at Mukum Kampar, Perak, is split
into two parts. In the first, some
33,000,000 c.y. is estimated to remain ;
the second appears to contain approx, a
further 39,000,000 c.y., but the wash is
low-grade and difficult to handle, a
limestone bottom existing in parts.
Respective values aren’t disclosed ; after
reboring, the average grade of the whole
property, then estimated to contain
90,000,000 c.y., was put at 0.261 b. in
March, 1936.
To avoid immediate handling of the
difficult low-grade ground, the co. pro-
poses to transfer its No. 1 dredge,
now idle, to the Wardieburn Rubber
Estate, five miles north-east of Kuala
Lumpur, over which a tribute has been
obtained through Anglo-Malayan De-
velopment, and where some adjoining
lots have been acquired outright. The
new area is estimated to contain
36,000,000 c.y., averaging 0.61 b. t. 0., and
to provide 10 years’ work, digging to
capacity. Anglo-Oriental (Malaya) bored
the property, and checkboring by Messrs.
Hannay and Steedman confirmed the
results.
Cost of dismantling and re-erecting the
dredge, etc., on the new site, including
electrification of the unit and installation
of clay-digging equipment, is expected to
use up all surplus cash and more besides,
to be found by way of overdraft. The
work will take 12 months. Meantime,
No. 2 plant will continue digging on the
old property, where, on full-time work-
ing, it has a 10-year task or more
ahead in No. 1 sector. Absence of details
of values here and the terms of the
tribute agreement leaves shareholders
somewhat in the dark as to prospects.
The heavy incidence of restriction —the
free domestic quota was reduced from
73.7 p.c. to 29.6 p.c. of assessment —
together with lower metal prices, reduced
income by two-thirds last term. After
providing £lO,OOO (down £15,826) for
depreciation, etc., and reserving £4200
for bucket-line renewal, the year’s sur-
plus was a nominal £1346, as against
£62,322 in the previous term:
Year , —Surplus— x , Divs. ,
Mar., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
£Stg. £Stg. £Stg. £Stg.
1937.. 145.246 88,940 56,306 3/9 2/6 37,500
1938.-158,000 95,678 62,322 4/2 4/- 60,000
1939.. 55,175 53,829 1,340 -/I -/6 7.500
* Including depreciation: £26,575. 1937; £25,826,
1938, £lO,OOO, 1939.
That was after taking in 63| tons of tin
metal contributed to the buffer pool at
cost of production (£9191). The div. was
hauled back from 20 p.c. to 2\ p.c.
The co. is assessed at 1482 tons t.o.
annually, and present 100 p.c. inter-
national quota is equivalent to a domestic
release of 71 p.c. Though both plants
were in low-grade ground last year,
it was still not possible to maintain full-
time working:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Domestic quota, p.c... 68.7 73.7 29.6
Cubic yards dredged 6,119,006 5,899,000 5,539,000
T. 0., tons .. .. 1074.1 1126.5 672.1
Recovery per cubic
yard, pound .. 0.39 0.43 0.27
Assay, p.c. .. .. 75.8 75.6 75.5
Costs per c.y., pence 2.05 *2.77 *2.65
Net ore real'll, ton.. £134/13/4 £139/3/5 £122/8/3
Singapore av. metallic
tin, ton .. .. £209/18/4 £219/9/7 £l9l/1/7
* Including provision for bucket-band renewal.
Recoveries since the close of accounts
have been roughly in line with last term’s
experience, No. 2 dredge having dug
2,069,000 c.y. in the five months to
August for 263 tons t.o. Costs exclude
depreciation; the rise in the figure over
the last two years is partly apparent, the
provision for bucket-line renewal being
now included in the item.
At 16s. early in September, Kampong
Lanjut’s pound shares have risen to 21s.
in the sharemarket; 300,000 are issued.
Thanks largely to a liberal depreciation
policy when profits were high, the co. at
March 31 held more or less liquids of
£143,854 stg., of which £82,892 was in
cash, and owed only £4671. Property
appears at £122,000, dredges £100,932,
other plant, etc., at £12,422. Reserve for
depreciation and depletion stands at
£35,000, and for bucket-line renewal at
£13,713.
United Provisions, the big holding co.
through which J. C. Hutton and Foggitt
Jones, the well-known ham, bacon and
food-canning people, amalgamated their
interests in 1927, is again handing 3 p.c.
to the ords., the price of which has
jumped from 7s. 9d. to 9s. 4d. in the
market over the last month or so. The
spring reflects a long-overdue move in
the trade toward price-stabilisation. Also
E. E. Forth (chairman of Huttons ana
one of Foggitt Jones’s directors) has
relinquished his appointment as govern-
ing director of the holding co. to become
its deputy-chairman, while A. B. Ander-
son (on the board of the holding co.) has
been appointed acting g,m. of each of the
operating cos.
4= * *
Fern Springs (B. 26/7/’39), 25 miles
west of Charters Towers (N.Q.), is pro-
ducing a new type of ore, similar to
Lolworth. On the Big Hit lease, held
by Parry and Case, two shafts have been
sunk in oxidised ore, of which 174 tons
averaged roughly 25dwt. fine gold. The
ore is a sericite granite, mineralised with
mundic, and, since no walls have been
found in either shaft, is probably the cap
of a big body of this formation. Far from
being a prospector’s reef, there are indi-
cations that warrant capital for man-size
development, of which the first item
should be location of boundaries between
ore and country. It has been suggested
that it is an opencut proposition as far
as the oxidised cap is concerned. Crush-
ing returns have resulted in the surround-
ing ground being pegged ; prospecting is
in the initial stages.
* * * *
The rise in monthly gold returns from
the Etheridge goldfield (N.Q.) has in-
duced the Queensland Mines Department
to modernise the Government battery
on the field. There are promising
groups of reefs round both Georgetown
and Forsayth, but battery-owners always
came in for trouble because of low
extraction. Most of the lodes carry lead,
and the bugbear in battery recovery has
been a persistent tail of lead carbonate
in the ore. Hence Chillagoe Smelters
has had most of the trade, but that
entails heavy transport costs. These have
been cut to the bone in an endeavor to
help the miner.
* * * *
Arahura’s dredge at Arahura (M.L.)
has got quickly into its stride, turnover
for September falling only 18,000 c.y.
short of rated capacity (400,000 c.y.
monthly). That compares with the best
monthly effort of 269,000 c.y. from the
sister-dredge of Kanieri, where the wash
is a bit more difficult. Kanieri, however,
has the advantage in the matter of re-
coveries—2.4gr., as against I.4gr. Both
properties were bored to average 3.1 gr.,
so there appears room for improvement
in Arahura returns. Kanieri shows a sur-
plus on working account of £38,625 for
the first half of its current term ; Ara-
hura’s figure for September was £6900.
* * * *
During 1938 London-controlled Tindals
Gold Mines increased its advances to
Consolidated Gold Mines, its wholly-
owned subsidiary, which controls 25 auri-
ferous blocks at Coolgardie (W.A.), from
£A186,470 to £A216,449. Erection of the
5000-tons-a-month treatment plant was
completed last May, but for financial
reasons development work had to be
curtailed. After a trial run crushing
started in June, and has continued with-
out interruption since ; mining consisted
of limited underground work and the
preparation for stoping. Proved and
partly-proved ore is figured at 319,646
tons, averaging 4.66dwt. At the end of
_ 1938 the co. had £20,843 in the bank, and
" the Westralian. Government had guaran-
teed an overdraft up to £A30,000 for the
subsidiary, secured by a mortgage over
its assets. For June and July Tindals
claimed profits of £A2507 and £A4378
respectively.
H*
Owning the old Edna May, Central,
Deeps, Consolidated and McMahon’s
mines, at Westonia (W.A.), Edna May
Amalg. shows net earnings of £17,529
(approx. per ss. share) for the
12 months to June 30; it com-
pares with £598 for the previous
term. No div. is recommended, £11,154
being utilised to write underwriting
exes, out of the accounts. The co.
treated 18,137 (up 6424) tons ore for a
return over the plates of 6.sdwt. gold, as
against 6.3dwt. for 1938, and recovered
5230 z. fine from approx, half that ton-
nage of tailings. Ore treatment has been
at the rate of 20,000 tons p.a. for the first
quarter of the current term, but battery
returns have been down to s.9dwt.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Fields of S. Africa,
which controls Lake View, Wiluna and
Gold Fields of Australia and a number
of big Transvaal and West African, min-
ing concerns, has appointed its former
deputy chairman, H. C. Porter, to suc-
ceed the late J. A. Agnew at the head of
the board table. Douglas Christopher-
son, recently chairman of Lake View,
will be deputy chairman. Both have
Rand experience, and sit upon the boards
of a number of cos. which Consolidated
owns or controls.
# * * *
Wiluna’s next-door neighbor and asso-
ciate, Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment, treated 26,700 tons from the Moon-
light group during June quarter for a
working profit of £15,749, and 752 tons
from the Kintore at Kunanalling for an
estimated surplus of £4640. Develop-
mental report, which deals exclusively
with the Moonlight, reads well.
* * * *
Lady Shenton (W.A.) has taken another
option, this time within sight of its old
Menzies mine. Purchase price is £5OOO,
payable by instalments over 21 months.
Present owners of the property extracted
and treated a little ore for an average
return of over the ounce. The co.
recently abandoned an option on an auri-
ferous area at Sandstone.
* * * *
Blue Bird (W.A.) still lays golden
though smaller eggs. The latest batch
weighed in the aggregate 4850 z., and
were worth between £4OOO and £5OOO.


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Only one minute from G.P.O. and four from
Wynyard Square Railway Station. Every com-
fort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from 11/
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
Modera a la. carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,’.’ Sydney.
33T
TT
ri
|;r
EH
• :
nr ;
SMOKE-OH!
“ ‘No alcohol while war lasts.’ Temperance
council’s proposal.”— “S. M. Herald.”
That would be one sure way to get
everyone fighting mad.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“The Australian Information Department has
been christened Dumb Dora.”
Her utterance seems to have been
strangled in her Gullett, so to speak.
4* 4> 4* 4 1
“Women write the best mystery stories.”
—Literary course.
Give them a single human hair on
their husband’s coat-lapel and they’ll
deduce where he was the night before.
4* 4b 4 1 4>
“Explain Petrol Position.” — “Daily News.”
Strike a light ! That’ll cause a flare-up.
“ Boogie , boogie , boogie !”
“Mr. S. Beers, of New Brunswick, U.S.A.,
claims to own the only dog that can count,
add and subtract.” — “World’s News.”
That’s nothing. We’ve a cat that can
multiply.
4* 4* 4* *s*
“There is one infallible sign of good table
manners —what is it?”— Women’s paper.
To warn the people on each side of
you to watch out for your elbows while
you are drinking out of your saucer.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lay head right, then left, then roll it
around. Finish by flopping head forward.”
—Beauty exercise in women’s paper.
Sounds more like the finish of the d.ts.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Cycling was booming in Great Britain
prior to the outbreak of war.”
— “World’s News.”
But when Hitler got off his bike they
decided to put a spoke in his wheel.
“Modern films are not inflammable.”
—Film blurb.
Nevertheless, they make many people
hot under the collar.
■4* * *
In spring a man s overhead expenses
are mainly his wife’s millinery bills.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Hell hath no fury like a woman mis-
informed.
This goose-step is playing ducks and
drakes with European frontiers.
4* 4* 4*
Looks as though the British Navy has
a half-nelson on the U-boats.
4* 4* *f*
“Marriage should be built on firm founda-
tions.” — Women’s mag.
Still, that’s poor consolation for being
on the rocks.
4* 4* 4*
“Hollywood is ready for war.” — Film blurb.
After all, they must have known that
talkie fans would revolt sooner or later.
•I* 4* 4*
“Jockey enlists in A.I.F.” — News item.
Probably he’ll be drafted to a field
battery.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
A “scoop” is what is used to ladle out
tripe into mugs.
•J*
“A once well-known actor is now the lead-
ing municipal authority in Antwerp.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
A sort of ham-burgher.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Most Australians are music-lovers.”
— Article.
They like to set things up in bars.
4* 4* 4* •F
“Politicians have the idea that money grows
on trees.” — Taxpayers’ Association.
Still, they never think of pruning their
own salaries.
4* 4* 4*
“Remove that dingy film.”
-—Toothpaste advt.
After all, that’s the censor’s job.
Calamity.
Where are the songs of yesteryear
That once we used to sing ?
Over your radio you’ll hear
Them massacred by “swing.”
PATON.
Stars and Strifes.
“He said that thousands of people were fol-
lowing blindly the advice of fortune-
tellers, stargazefs and others. There was a
danger of this blind obedience being exploited
politically.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Most politicians appear to do their
exploiting under the influence of the
planet Taurus (bull). It also has a re-
markable influence on people in broad-
casting studios.
Taxpayers know that they were born
and will die under the influence of Scor-
pio (scorpion, with sting attached).
When you see a man gazing with en-
thusiasm at three stars on a bottle you
can safely bet that his day is going to
be full of surprises.
Hollywood divorce lawyers reckon that
stars do influence your fortunes.
Some poor saps try to back horses by
the stars. They generally look for guid-
ance in the Milky Way, owing to the
superstition that most favorites finish be-
tween the shafts of a suburban milkcait.
Let one stargazing punter, walking home
from the racecourse under the starlit
heavens, have his say: —-
Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
What a blinking fraud you are.
Lucky? Yes, you so-and-so,
For the books who got my dough!
D. McM.
Maria Goes to War.
“I’ve enlisted!” Maria announced
proudly. She said it as if she were pro-
claiming that the last nail had been driven
into Hitler’s coffin.
I felt myself as if a blow had been
struck for freedom —my personal free-
dom, if Maria’s war activities would dis-
tract her attention from interference with
my liberty. “Good-oh!” I said.
“Good-oh!” she repeated scornfully.
“That’s all you can say, Aitchem! I
suppose you realise that this is a time
when every woman must be prepared to
do her bit?”
“Quite right,” I applauded. “And what
have you joined?”
“Well,” said Maria, “I’ve put my name
in for two things. I like the uniform of
the Women’s Afternoon-Tea-for-Soldiers’
Brigade, which will suit me to perfection ;
but if that horrid Mrs. Parsnips is going
to be given a captaincy I’ll withdraw—
that is, unless I can get a captaincy my-
self —and join the W.R.O.T. Corps. Their
forage cap is very becoming, and
the uniform is charming; and if Mrs.
Bungle is made colonel she’s bound, as
a friend of mine, to get me a commis-
sion. The only danger is that that cat Mrs.
Sniggers, who hates me like poison, will
get the colonelcy. But a lot of us are
ready to fight if anything like that hap-
pens. And, by the bye, of course I’ll
have to have a cheque so as to be able
to get whichever uniform”
“Couldn’t you manage to get that out
of your commission?” I suggested jest-
ingly. And, of course, was immediately
sorry.
“Have you no patriotism, Aitchem?
Are you such a worm that you are con-
tent to let Hitlerism”
That was only the start. Anyway,
Maria has definitely gone to war —against
Mrs. Parsnips and Mrs. Sniggers and for
a cheque for her uniform for a start;
but Hitler had better beware. If ever
he is foolish enough to come to Australia
he’ll face Maria here in the uniform she
thinks most becoming, complete with the
satchel she has herself designed to carry
lipstick and powder, and with a perfectly
new permanent wave to give her confi-
dence, prepared to give him a piece of
her mind.
And Hitler won’t like that. He’ll be
less able to stand it than I am, because
I’m used to it.
H.M.
The Purge.
A Play in Two Acts.
(Music adapted from Moussorgsky’s
“Song of the Morgue”)
“Hard on the heels of the invading Red
Army in East Poland came 3000 Soviet actors
to stage propaganda plays.”
[The following is one of the master-
pieces which earned its author the Order
of the Bullet, 2nd Class — Ist class having
been abolished as savoring of class-con-
sciousness—from Comrade Joe, who
often got the inspiration for a fresh purge
while viewing it at the Hammer and
Sickle Theatre, Moscow. It was the first
play staged in the newly-conquered terri-
tory.]
Dramatis Persons.
Ivan Orfelkoff ... A Collectivist Farmer
Yubitsch His Wife
Scratchuss Iymitchi,
His Suicide-complexed Grandfather
Serge Suitski An O.G.P.U. Agent
Nickoff Karntya .. A Trotskyist Wrecker
Chorus of “Liquidators” and Body-
burners.
Act I.
Scene: Kitchen of Ivan’s farmhouse in
Gagaloff.
Enter Ivan, Yubitsch, Scratchuss and
Nickoff.
Ivan: I see that Comrade Bumpemoff
has issued an order, under penalty of
death for disobedience, that all kitchen
fat must be sent to Moscow immedi-
ately to be used for soap.
Yubitsch: What’s that?
Ivan: Curse your deafness, Yubitsch! I
said that Comrade Bum
Yubitsch: I heard all that. But what’s
soap?
Nickoff: Oh, it’s some smellful stuff
the hated bourgeoisie use. But don’t
worry. They won’t make us use it;
it’s too valuable. It’s for export.
Ivan (to Yubitsch): Well, keep a spoon-
ful back when you send it. I souven-
ired half a collectivised egg from the
collectivised poultry-farm yesterday,
and I haven’t had a fried googski
Nickoff: Quick! Look at Scratchuss!
He’s trying to cut his throat.
Ivan: Well, it’s his throat, isn’t it? Any-
way, he doesn’t stand much chance of
getting through his jugular with that
knife. It’s the one I pinched from the
municipal restaurant.
Solo: Ivan.
It’s a Soviet rule that you’ve got to keep
cool,
And calm and collectivised, too,
When some physical wreck hacks his
head off his neck,
While to try to prevent it’s taboo.
Suicide’s a grand sport that has Stalin’s
support,
For a body without any breath
To a Tartar’s a joy unalloyed, and, oh,
boy !
Ain’t it goodski to revel in death!
Nickoff: Well, comrade, listening to that
has given me a thirst. Have you any
vodka —some good old vintage, I
mean?
Ivan: Yes, I’ve got some real mellow
stuff. I made it last Friday week. I’m
like you, Nickoff, I hate these new vin-
tages. I keep it buried where even the
secret police can’t find it. I’ll go and
get it. (Exit.)
Nickoff: Now’s your chance, Yubitsch,
to slip the prussic acid in his cup. He
won’t notice the taste with the vodka.
They’ll probably think he died of
scrofula.
(Yubitsch half-fills Ivan’s cup with the
acid, just getting the jar back on the shelf
before Ivan re-enters carrying an iron
bottle.)
Ivan (smacking his lips): This is the stuff
to give ’em! Made from the purest
offal and distilled mangelwurzel tops.
Duet: Ivan and Nickoff.
Ivan :
The capitalistic octopus that rides
So roughshod over wageplugs never
stops
To think he rots away his slaves’ insides
By selling them a drink that’s made of
hops .
Nickoff:
No cheap and nasty booze we Russkis
have.
It’s made .us what we are, and that’s a
fact.
Dear to the heart of every he-man Slav
Is vodka, which with T.N.T. is packed.
Both :
One spoonful, and you’re left without a
rudder.
It runs about six murders to the bottle.
It gives you such a gorgeous sort of
shudder
To feel it disappearing down your
throttle.
Ivan (taking up bottle and pouring): Say
when.
(Enter Serge disguised as an O.G.P.U.
agent. He looks around fearfully.)
Serge : Good day, Comrade.
Ivan: Who are you?
Serge: A gravedigger.
Recitative: Serge.
It’s with quite a mathematical precision
And a neatness that would rouse your
admiration
That I excavate each little subdivision
With a minimum of curse and perspira-
tion.
There are times —in point of fact, it’s
pretty often —
When I think my job is one that’s so
enchanting
That I meditate while sitting on the coffin
I’m as happy as the comrade l am
planting !
(To be continued.)
S.W.K.


MU
vv •>' ■;
• i/A-A
L \ -
/fr
/
In Kruger National Park
the World's greatest
( game sanctuary of 8,000
square miles, lions amble
, quietly along the road,
' or rest contentedly near
( your car, one is perfectly
' safe to travel along the
900 miles of the Pa k's
roadways, and see at
close quarters an amaz-
ing variety of fauna.
OF KRUG-ER
'fayfifo PAßK
SOUTH AFRICA is a land where the romance of the past
lends colour and vivid interest to the present, a travel
country of absorbing interest. Modern cities, mountain play-
grounds, sunsplashed beaches, scenic splendour, such as
the Victoria Falls, primitive native life, and countless venues
for outdoor sports, are but a few of the factors that draw an
everlasting throng to this country where the sun shines well
nigh every day—where holidaying is inexpensive and the
costs of modern transport services are quite moderate. The
voyage from Fremantle is only 10 days if you travel by the
27,000 tons luxury liner "Dominion Monarch.”
SM ®o]
Obtain full particulars to-day from all offices of
DALGETY AND COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Agents South African Railways throughout Australia and New Zealand
5A.339
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
' (Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street', E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Austraha, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Taxation Only Is Definite
Since war broke out there have been a
number of financial developments in
Australia largely in anticipation of things
to come or because in the confusion of
the moment it is hoped that the little “re-
arrangements” made here and there won’t
be noticed or objected to. In the second
category belongs the increased mulcting
of N. S. Wales taxpayers by their
“Government.” Additional taxes have
been clapped on to bolster up the Gov-
ernment’s rotten financial condition and
to keep “prosperity” going, but the war
has nothing to do with the difficulty of
the situation or the taxation being levied.
Car registrations and drivers’ license fees
have been singled out for special loading,
and wage-plugs haven’t escaped the tax-
ation scraper.
In the Federal realm taxes also have
been increased, and companies operating
in the Commonwealth and paying divs. to
shareholders in the U.S.A., etc., are to
bear a special tax. In the circumstances
few people will object to the introduction
of this levy. Most of the extra taxa-
tion, which includes additions to excise on
liquors and the tax on petrol, is ear-
marked for defence. The Loan Council
finds borrowing difficult, and the more
defence funds that can be raised by
reasonable taxation the better. To pay
as we go is better than paying later.
But those who have listened to the
nation’s mouthpiece on the question of
what is being done with this money have
been disappointed. Mr. Menzies has
very smoothly told us how much is to be
spent in a very short period, and has
taken credit to his Government for the
fact that the amount is a multiplication
of the sum expended during the same
period of the Great War; but little evi-
dence has been forthcoming to show that
the money is being laid out with the de-.
sired wisdom or effectiveness. To skite
about the amount one is going to spend is
typical of the Australian political mind.
It would seem sacrilege in Canberra to
suggest that less money be spent and
more results shown for the expenditure.
Cockatoo Dock, in Sydney Harbor,
which the Federal Government, as owner,
lost much cash over, is working at high
pressure and seemingly with satisfactory
results to the Davis (gelatine) people who
bought it. Some people are wondering
whether the Commonwealth, in the
present emergency, will try to buy the
dockyard back.
George Davis is also trying to estab-
lish-the Newnes-Capertee (N.S.W.) shale-
oil industry, and success would be re-
ceived with loud acclaim by every Aus-
tralian. The enterprise; which is full of
difficulties, is being pushed ahead.
National Shale Oil Pty., the Davis con-
cern, has received the protection of the
Commonwealth to the extent that the
industry is exempt from excise, up to
10,000,000 gallons of petrol a year, for a
term of 25 years. At the outset produc-
tion was anticipated in January last. It
has not yet been reached on a commer-
cial scale.
Attempts are being made to control
prices, which is a very difficult task. Fol-
lowing the outbreak of hostilities there
was a speedy move by some wholesalers to
charge inflated prices for many imported
goods, though up to that time importers
hadn’t had to pay any more for their
stocks. It has been encouraging to see
this conscienceless sort of profiteering
checked, though, as old stocks are used
up and new costs factors enter into the
price payable for additional imported and
Australian-made goods, some inflation in
prices may be impossible to avoid.
The petrol cos. have not raised prices
beyond the amount of new taxation im-
posed.
Professor D. B. Copland, Federal
Prices Commissioner, began “co-ordina-
tion of State price-control organisations”
last week.
The transfer of funds overseas has
been restricted to legitimate trading re-
quirements and the payment of interest,
dividends, etc. Australians abroad may
have only £5 a week of capital trans-
ferred to them.
The Federal gold tax (75 p.c. of the
price in excess of £9 Australian an ounce)
was blocked in the Senate ; but the Gov-
ernment has satisfied itself by imposing a
50 p.c. excise duty by regulation.
The wool clip is to be bought by the
British Government for the duration,
but the price up to the end of last week
had still to be announced. Several prices,
all different, including one that ran out
to several decimals of a penny, have
been given by the daily press as
“dinkum.”
An Australian Wheat Board has been
formed, with Clive McPherson as chair-
man, John Thomson (of Westralian
Farmers, Ltd.) as general manager and
C. J. Perrett, of the Department of Com-
merce, as secretary. The board’s opera-
tions are still a matter of the future
rather than the past.
Butter, sugar and meat are to be sub-
ject to purchase schemes. Metals are
still shrouded in the mystery of “maxi-
mum prices.”
The Stock Exchanges, after a period
of great speculative buoyancy for a week
or two following the outbreak of war,
are now in a state of sluggishness, though
industrial ord. shares (especially a large
proportion of those recommended on
these pages over the past few years—
8.H.P., Yarra Falls, Bradford Cotton,
Australasian and Cumberland Paper,
Adelaide Steam, North Coast Steam,
etc.) on the whole are still well held. The
interest rate on Government loans is
now definitely 4 p.c. or slightly more.
The last new loan carried under 4 p.c.
The Sydney Water Board £1,500,000 loan
which had the misfortune to be still try-
ing to float when war broke out was for
13 years and carried 4\ p.c. J. B. Were
and Son, the underwriters, were left with
£520,000 (34.7 p.c.) of it.
The Commonwealth, according to Can-
berra reports, isn’t likely to go on the
market for a defence loan during 1939.
The usual State “works” loans will be
given precedence, as. there is no imme-
diate need of money, outside that still
available, for the defence commitments
already undertaken by the Common-
wealth.
The most definite financial happening
in Australia since war broke out has been
the dazzlingly swift lift in taxation rates.
But no ironical cheering, please!
Among the more sought-after stocks
on Australian ’Changes since war broke
out have been those interested in the
manufacture of piecegoods, both woollen
and cotton. Yarra Falls has led the way
among woollen textile manufacturers,
and Bradford Cotton (Sydney) has
attracted most interest in the other
sphere. Davies, Coop and Co. (Melb.),
one of the largest cotton-spinners in the
Commonwealth, hasn’t seen so much
activity in its ord. shares, which are
stale at a quotation of about 235.
Bradford Cotton recently took over the
spinning mill of Austral Silk and Cotton,
in Melbourne, and, through a subsidiary
co., is expanding its canvas- and duck-
manufacturing activities. It is also ex-
ploiting the sanforising (pre-shrinking)
process in Australia, and it should find
a large demand :for most of its products
so long as the war continues. The co.’s
£1 ord. shares have risen from 375. to
425., and return 6 p.c. on a \2{ p.c. div.
basis.
Yarra Falls, Ltd., largest textile manu-
facturer in Australia, erected its original
mill at Abbotsford (Vic.) towards the
end of the Great War, and in 1929 it
acquired control of the Globe Worsted
Mills, Sydney. Both establishments are
highly prosperous —largely a result of
efficient management and careful
financing. A record profit for 1938-39
has just been announced, and the div.
remains steady at 10 p.c. From a lowest
price of 335. this year the shares have
risen to above 40s. The co.’s factories
spin yarn as well as turn out finely-
woven worsteds and other woollen
goods.
* '• -
A stock that weathered the “jitters”
period admirably but which has slumped
since war started is Gordon and Gotch
ords. From a highest price of 575. 6d.
this year there has been a drop to 455. 9d.,
the return to the investor lifting to 6.1
p.c. —so long as the 14 p.c. div. con-
tinues. Reason for present apprehension
seems to lie in the fact that the co.
depends largely on imported periodicals
for its turnover, and there are fears that
supplies may be interrupted. Except
so far as shipping and shipping space
have been requisitioned for war purposes,
there has been comparatively little inter-
ference with shipping to date, and
periodicals don’t constitute a bulky cargo.
The co. has been financed and developed
with care and judgment.
* * * *
There will be fits of temperament in
the sharemarkets from week to week, and
during such fits prices will fluctuate.
Shares in Adelaide Steam represent a
very sound investment in present circum-
stances, and when available at reduced
prices will be well worth attention. The
div. rate now is 1\ p.c., and at recent
quotes of 345. 6d. the scrip gives an im-
mediate return of 4.4 p.c. Apart from
coastal shipping, in respect of which
freight rates were recently lifted 20 p.c.,
the co. owns an extensive range of in-
vestments.
* * * *
Best news from the N. S. Wales Mait-
land coalfields in several years was the
announcement of a £94,911 profit by
J. and A. Brown and Abermain Seaham
Collieries, Ltd., for the year to June 30
last. The result was arrived at after
providing £60,000 for depreciation (up
£15,000) and setting aside £lO,OOO for
contingencies (up £5000). There was a
six weeks’ stoppage during the term. In
the preceding year £62,816 net was
earned and a 3 p.c. div. paid. For the
latest term a 5 p.c. distribution has been
declared; it calls for £B9 more than the
stated profit. But the co.’s liquid posi-
tion is very sound, and apparently in-
creased mechanisation of mining has en-
couraged the belief that the future of
collieries as earners is more secure. Prices
were better during the year, and Aber-
main No. 2 colliery, shut down for 2\
years, has been reopened. Adelaide
Steam is a large shareholder. At 13s. 3d.,
cum Is. div. payable on Oct. 17, J. and
A. Brown shares return 8 p.c. on a 5 p.c.
div. basis.
* * * *
J. B. Were and Son have underwritten
the £500,000 loan offered by the Vic-
torian Grain Elevators Board. The rate
is 4{- p.c. at par, term 10 years. Govern-
ment guarantees interest and principal.
v * * *
Wheat is still dirt cheap in Australia
notwithstanding the fact that Britain is
at war. Apparently there is plenty of
grain in America, and the U.S.A. and
Canada are nearer to Britain than is Aus-
tralia. Also, Britain itself isn’t a grain-
growing country, so its production hasn’t
been disturbed, nor have shipments to
Britain been greatly upset by submarine
attacks so far. Another factor that isn’t
favorable to a much-increased price for
wheat is that there isn’t likely to be a
greatly increased consumption because
of the war. Metals, etc., may become in
keen demand, but wheat has little use
other than its obvious one as a foodstuff.
* * * *
Tin keeps steady at the controlled price
of £229 16s. The world production quota
is now 100 p.c. of standard tonnages.
The F.M.S. domestic quota has been
lifted to 71 p.c., but on the present inter-
national release of 60 p.c. of production
the F.M.S. export quota is 42 p.c. Aus-
tralian producers continue to reap full
benefit of the better price, but they
derive no gain from the increased quota.
Production in the Commonwealth has
never been restricted.


THE NEW ZEALAND
INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in New Zealand).
Established 1859.
Capital £1,500,000.
Funds invested in Australia,
£1,620,976.
All Classes of FIRE, MARINE
and
ACCIDENT INSURANCES
effected at Lowest Current
Rates.
Head Office for New South Wales:
79-81 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
J. HARRISON, Manager.
Tel: 8W1931.
M
I
n
S i
•• •' ' •
; I
■■
*
Vr 2;4
t ' .K*
|
AUSTRALIA-ITALIA
SMBIP>IPDM© eOMIMB®? B.m
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
S: m
wm
m
m
W*
mm
wmmmm
m
VMM
m
acres
50,85°
99
a
acre
PER
d
1
COST
fuel
west Aus tralia
we** 1
<4 With our ‘Caterpillar’ RD6 Tractor, purchased in October, 1935,
we have worked 50,850 acres at an average fuel cost of 2%d. per
acre. The 50,850 acres comprised :
• 21,750 acres pulling 2 scarifiers cutting 20 feet.
• 11,900 acres pulling 2 Suntyne 24 Run Combines.
• 5,900 acres pulling 2 disc plows, cutting 13 or 14 feet.
• 11,300 acres with three 10-ft. Harvesters. Small amount
of belt work, principally chaffcutting and various small
haulage jobs.”
You can still make farming pay with a “Caterpillar” Diesel Tractor,
Mail the attached coupon for information and illustrated literature.
CATE RPILLAR
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company
Flinders St., Adelaide
Victoria & Tasmania:
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
Collins Street, Melbourne
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTRIBUTORS
West Australia:
Wigmores Limited
Wellington St., Perth
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty., Ltd.
Unwin's Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson
102 Melbourne Street,
Pty., Ltd.
, Brisbane
Mail the attached
-
coupon to-day
Address to your nearest State Distributor as above.
Please send me, without obligation, literature showing how I can cut my
costs with a "Caterpillar" Diesel.
NAME
ADDRESS
B 2.39.
In a substantial measure because of
the prodigal way the high income we
earned abroad during 1936 and 1937 was
spent, and because of the refusal to do
anything about the adverse balance of
payments during the lean years that have
followed, we are finding that the financ-
ing of defence purchases from abroad may
become difficult. Checks have already
been imposed on the transfer of capital
abroad, and tourists and absentees have
been rationed in the matter of travelling
exes, and spending money. Now a
register of all overseas securities and
credits held by Australians is to be com-
piled by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, for possible acquisition in order
to finance “defence purchases.” Aus-
tralians have invested a lot of money
on Wall-street in recent years; they hold
extensive Malayan tinmining interests;
they have mining investments registered
in Canada, S’Africa and other parts. And,
of course, from the time Australia be-
gan there have been holdings in British
stocks. The private thrift of Aus-
tralians may now have to be interfered
with in order to offset the national ex-
travagance. Marshalling of overseas
private securities in order to help finance
a war isn’t a new idea; Britain was
forced into that position during 1914-18.
But the plain facts so far as Australia is
concerned are that we were drifting into
a difficult external credit position before
war broke out, and we had already been
rebuffed in the London borrowing
market. The need for cashing-in on these
private securities now being registered
may never arise, especially since a better
income from wool and other of our export
products may be expected so long as the
war lasts ; but the precaution that has
become necessary is clearly a fruit
of the bungling expediency that governs
the “national” financial policy.
*** . *
B. S. B. Stevens, till lately Premier of
N. S. Wales, is urging the Commonwealth
Government “to consider the advisability
of an early expansion of credit to enable
all able-bodied men to be given full-time
employment on essential works, prefer-
ably of a defence nature. It is very im-
portant,” he adds, “to think of the
problem in terms of real resources rather
than of money.” Those who don’t be-
lieve that financial juggling is the com-
plete answer to increasing industrial
activity and employment have one
question to ask Mr. Stevens: What “real
resources” did Mr. Stevens and his
Government add to N. S. Wales during
a lengthy period of great prosperity that
allowed free borrowing and brought in
an unparalleled amount of tax revenue?
* * * *
Shares in Masonite Corp., which sold
at 13s. 6d. on Sept. 21, were sought after
by buyers at 16s. last week, sellers asking
18s. 3d. The C.S.R. is interested on the
marketing side (in conjunction with its
own product Cane-ite), and Australian
Glass acquired a “very substantial share-
holding” about 13 months ago. The co.
has been a disappointment to share-
holders so far; during the 6\ months to
June 30 last a trading loss of £llBB was
shown on a one-shift-alternate-week
working basis. Preliminary and other
exes, amounting to £20,425 have been
capitalised. The board hopes that orders
may soon increase so as to warrant the
factory’s working every week. Going at
full capacity,, “handsome profits” are
expected from the business. Possible dis-
location of timber supplies as a result of
the war may have had to do with the
recent spurt in prices for the shares.
* * * *
There has not yet been time for the
increased price of most imported goods
to find its way into the cost of living.
Actually, since war broke out, few ship-
ments of overseas products subject to
war-time charges have come to the Com-
monwealth. But we shall see higher
prices for a number of overseas raw
materials before long, and the increased
cost will intrude into the price of
the finished products those materials are
turned into in this country. Silk, rayon and
cotton goods are likely to be especially
affected, and already the demand for
jute (for sandbags) has caused a big
rise in the cost of cornsacks and wool-
packs. Manufactured goods and petro-
leum products coming in from the U.S.A.
and elsewhere will be inflated in cost by
the depreciation of the Australian pound
externally through its relation to sterling,
which is now on an £8 Bs.-an-ounce-fine-
gold basis, as against £7 Bs. for some
months prior to the war. It may soon
be difficult to buy English cars, owing to
the transfer of British manufacturing to
war needs. Since war broke out some
motor-car distributing concerns report , a
rush of business —that is, in comparison
with the depressed period that preceded
the commencement of hostilities.
Any increase in the cost of living thai
occurs as a result of the higher cost of
imports is likely, under our arbitration
system, to be almost immediately reflected
in the cost of labor. Increased wages
are then likely to produce still higher
costs for Australian-made products —and
so (unfortunately) on. It has been a
national tragedy that, without any im-
petus from overseas prices (if anything,
the trend of world prices before the out-
break of war should have meant lower
costs in Australia), the cost of living in
the Commonwealth rose very steeply
during the two years preceding outbreak
of the present war. No one really bene-
fited, and most people are bound to suffer
later.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Ward Price Talks to Germany.
[Ward Price, whose fair and honest reporting on
Germany for years past naturally made Left warmongers
call him Fascist, was asked by the 8.8. C. to broadcast
to the German people, and gave this talk —one much
more likely to have some effect than all the Stephen
King-Hall, Churchill brand of outpourings put together.]
I have had many opportunities of knowing and
liking the German people. Of all British journalists,
I think I may claim to be the one who has perhaps
done most to interpret the standpoint of the German
Government to the British public. I have done so
fairly and sincerely.
It is in the same spirit that I address the people
of Germany. Now that we have been forced by the
aggressive action of the National Socialist Govern-
ment to take up arms against you, I shall describe
the attitude of my fellow-countrymen to you with the
same frankness and straightforwardness as when I
wrote about Germany for British readers.
It is with great sorrow that I speak to the people
of Germany. My sorrow is not for my own country,
which is being visibly stimulated by the ordeal that
has been forced upon it. What I regret is the loss to
humanity as a whole of the services which a peaceful
Germany might have rendered to it.
In my many conversations with the Fiihrer he
had so often assured me of his desire to avoid war.
Yet, on September 1, he suddenly attacked his peace-
ful neighbors, the Poles, to whom, in January, 1934,
he had given a 10-years guarantee of non-aggression.
He had often quoted that guarantee to me as a proof
that he had no hostile intentions against non-German
peoples. The last time he did so was on the very
day that he proclaimed the Anschluss with Austria.
The Fiihrer said: —•
“Now comes a pause for digestion, during
which the Czech Government would do well
to approach me with acceptable propositions
about the Sudetens. If they need proof of my
peaceful intentions towards Germany’s neigh-
bors, let them remember the 10-years peace
pledge that I gave to Poland. I recognise fully
the need for a nation of 33,000,000, like the
Poles, to have direct access to the sea. It is
hard for Germany that such access can be
obtained only through territory predominantly
inhabited by Germans, but I have accepted
that situation, and I am determined to main-
tain good and peaceful relations with Poland.”
That is what he said to me in March,
1938. Yet, 18 months later, he has invaded
Poland. This is a tragic disaster, not only for
Germany, but for the whole of European civili-
sation. Before the German nation lies now
only the grim prospect of fighting (like the
last time, only under worse conditions) against
a world in arms, which is determined to end
the Nazi rule of force in Europe.
That rule of force, as you know well, was
first exercised on Germans. The Communists,
the Jews, the Catholics, the Social-Democrats,
the Protestant pastors —all have felt it. You
gave your liberty of mind and conscience into
the control of the Nazi party bosses because
you trusted them to make Germany a better
place to live in. What have they done with
that trust? They have invaded Poland on
fantastic pretexts invented by their propa-
ganda department, and are bringing upon you the
sufferings and misery of a hopeless war.
I am one who has written much about the Nazi
regime in books and newspapers published in Great
Britain. I have often been reproached by Left Wing
critics as being pro-Nazi. I know better, perhaps, than
many people in my country the resources and spirit of
the German people. Yet I say with complete con-
viction that this war will be carried on until the Nazi
regime has disappeared, and a free German Govern-
ment has taken its place. Never have I seen such stern
determination in any country as exists in Britain now.
The British nation, both men and women, remind
me in their bearing to-day of people setting out to
overcome some great public peril, like a forest fire.
There is no hatred for you in their hearts ; but that
will not weaken their resolve to carry on this war just
as long as the National Socialists remain in power.
To fight a prolonged campaign is much easier for
us than for you. Your leaders have always talked
airily of a Blitzkrieg and promised you swift and
cheap victory. You will recall that the Imperial
Crown Prince, at the outset of the last European con-
flict, also spoke of a frischer, frohlicher Krieg [“a
merry and bright war”], while his father, who is now
an exile at Doom, assured his troops that they would
be home again before the leaves fell in the autumn
of 1914.
The German people will remember the hunger
and wretchedness that they went through before
and after the Kaiser and Crown Prince eventually fled,
leaving them to pay the price of defeat. Under any
form of government, it is seldom the leaders who
suffer most for their misdeeds.
For you it will be a terribly hard war; for us it
will be not nearly so hard. Our Navy, as last time,
will secure to Britain uninterrupted communication
with the rest of the globe. Germany, who is now at
the peak of her efficiency and supplies, has a war-
potential which will steadily continue to decline. Our
own capacity for war is day by day enormously in-
creasing. How, under such conditions, can you ever
hope to win?
As a nation which is being led blindfold into a
disastrous war, you have my sympathy. But when
peace comes again, Germany, like the rest of Europe,
will have been freed from the Nazi rule of force.
Odds Against Hitler’s Gamble.
[The article here condensed from London “Times”
was therein acknowledged as “from a correspondent
lately in Germany,” 15/9/’39.]
To observers in Berlin there appeared little doubt
that action against Poland had been intended swiftly
after the signature of the German-Russian pact, pos-
sibly on the night of August 25, a day after Herr von
Ribbentrop’s return from Moscow. The firmness of
the Western Powers caused a postponement of plan,
and for a week Herr Hitler wrestled with himself.
His people had woven round him the legend of a
peaceful conqueror. History even promised him, if
he remained prudent enough, the rare fame of having
won territories without a blow. These were haloes
he was loth to abandon.
The motives which in the end prompted him were
no doubt confused. Pride seems to have entered
"De Zakenwereld," Amsterdam.
HITLER REINTRODUCES THE IRON CROSS.
largely into them: “It cannot be said that I know the
word ‘capitulation.’ ” Probably an element of despera-
tion, joined to an audacious trust in Providence, was
also astir. Many times he had counselled his fol-
lowers to do nothing without being certain of winning,
and never had he embarked upon a project with so
little chance of success. Yet, even though victory
was not clear, the struggle at any rate might be long,
and on that calculation he could go, and does go,
forward with the faith of a gambler—or of a person
in his own conviction charmed —in his luck.
At the Reichstag meeting on September 1 the
Deputies were in a state of mute bewilderment. Ten
days earlier they had been stupefied by the news that
a pact was to be signed with Marxist Russia. Many
of them had gloated over the cunning cynicism of
the move. Others, a small minority, had been shocked
by its bare faithlessness. But whether gloating or
shocked none had doubted that it meant peace. To
find after all that it led to war was for them a rude
disillusionment and for the Fiihrer a grave moral
defeat at the very outset of hostilities. He had
entered a European war deprived of the fire of a
moral cause.
Were the war limited to the campaign against
Poland the deficiency would not matter. But propa-
ganda has still to devise means to screw the nation
to the prospect of long fighting in the West. It has
summoned the people to defensive patriotism, forget-
ting that on March 15 the regime forfeited much
thoughtful patriotic support. Moreover, by resort
to the word “defensive” —a rare word in the National-
Socialist vocabulary—it reveals what in the long run
is the weakness of the regime’s position.
The German people entered war disconcerted to
find themselves fighting at all. They had been tossed
by the regime from crisis to crisis, and when the
greatest crisis of all arrived they were jaded and
strained. The severe personal restrictions since im-
posed—heavy penalties are imposed on those who
listen to foreign broadcasts or spread foreign propa-
ganda—are not calculated to raise listless spirits. More
than in peace the nation is being pressed under the
iron control of the National-Socialist movement. In
peace, however, a passive nation was not a drawback ;
for the thrustful prosecution of a war its active colla-
boration is needed. That collaboration does not at
present exist in any noticeable degree; under the
stress of long conflict in the West it is not likely to
increase.
The Moscow pact has no more historical reality
than the pact concluded with Warsaw five years ago,
and the National-Socialist elite know it full well. Yet
such is the predicament in which they have to-day
landed themselves that they are drawn as to a mirage
by the very illusion they have set for others. The
hopes placed in Russian friendship, and in the ability
of that friendship to supply the Reich with food and
raw' materials, are fantastically high. They are the
best proof, if proof were needed, that the regime has
caught itself in its own toils.
A similar growth of fanciful wishing on a base
of realistic knowledge is evident in the regime’s atti-
tude towards the West. That the Western democracies
are inseparable and that they are waging
this war for a thorough end is at bottom
realised. But propaganda demands that they
shall be pictured as half-hearted and divided,
and even the leaders become half-convinced
against themselves. It remains to be seen
whether the transient encouragement thus de-
rived will be compensation enough for the
bitterness of later disappointment. The
National-Socialist elite has had recent
moments of dismay, but has recovered itself,
and its cunning and ruthlessness are as they
were before. The reserves of the nation,
material and moral, are largely dissipated ;
the divergence between party and people is
probably greater than it has yet been. But
the party hopes to whirl the people far on
its own dynamism, crushing from the start
every attempt at active opposition and cling-
ing to the last to its power. In its career
towards its own destruction it will probably
destroy the few values that still remain
intact in Germany.
I Nazi Needs and Russian Resources.
r (Condensed from an article in the "Economist”)
1 Visions of Russia as a large reservoir of man-
power and of foodstuffs and raw materials have long
haunted and attracted the German general staff. On
a superficial view, the Russo-German pact has opened
the door to the treasures coveted by Germany. But
this is only the superficial view.
Russian materials will presumably not be pro-
vided as a free gift. The probability is that Ger-
many’s purchases from Russia would be limited to
what Germany could pay for; as she has neither gold
nor foreign exchange, payment would have to be
made in goods. Germany has no surplus available
for export of the raw materials Russia needs to buy,
so that the volume of trade would be limited by the
quantity of machinery that a war-laden German in-
dustry could provide for export. The difficulties
that German exporters are experiencing even now in
fulfilling their export contracts suggest that the volume *
would not be large.
Another obstacle is transport. The chief possible
means of communication between Germany and
Russia are three. There is first the Baltic Sea, which
they jointly dominate, but which is frozen at the Rus-
sian end for part of the year. Moreover, Leningrad
is a long way from most of the sources of raw
materials. Secondly, there is the Black Sea-Danube
waterway, which can be cut by Rumania, Yugoslavia,
Hungary or any nation whose fleet has access to the
Black Sea by way of Turkey. Thirdly, there are the
railways.
The distances from Germany to the chief sources
of supply of materials are enormous. So far as rail-
way equipment is concerned, the capacity of the lines
has not kept pace with the traffic to be carried. If
one-tenth of the available trucks were to be placed
at the exclusive disposition of the Germans and each
truck was loaded once a month (an optimistic esti-
mate in view of the distances) the total annual carry-
ing capacity would be less than Germany’s peace-
time imports of iron ore alone. The strain on the
railways has been very considerable in recent years ;
in fact, Russia can hardly put many additional rail-
way trucks at the disposal of Germany either for ex-
port by land or from her Baltic or Black Sea ports.
Moreover, owing to the difference in gauge, German
equipment would be useless.
As to the quantities available, Russia is scarcely
producing enough foodstuffs for herself, and the stand-
ard of nutrition of her population is still compara-
tively low. Her shipments of cereals have tended to
decline, but the actual quantity exported each year has
varied with the size of the crop. In an average year
Russia’s wheat crop yields about 30 million metric
tons, but during the five years from 1933 to 1937
exports varied from 236.000 metric tons to 920,000
metric tons. Germany’s import requirements are
equally variable ; in 1936 she was actually a net ex-
porter to the extent of 12,000 metric tons, while in
1937 she imported 1,278,500 metric tons. In barley the


position is very much the same. As the chief grain-
producing areas in Russia are in the south, shipments
are made mainly from Odessa, the Black Sea port,
and any large-scale diversion of exports by land or
through the Baltic would therefore impose a very
heavy additional strain on the transport system.
Apart from wheat and barley, Russia is an ex-
porter of butter, oilseeds and oil cake. The 1937
figures of Germany’s total imports and Russia’s total
exports of these commodities are as follows: —-
Germany’s Russia’s
Imports from Exports to
All Countries. All Countries.
(000 metric tons.)
Butter 87 15
Oilseeds .. .. .. .. 1471 41
Oil cake 109 38
Thus the assistance that Russia could give would be
of minor proportions.
Russia exports only small quantities of iron ore,
and the deposits are located in regions from which it
would be impossible with present transport facilities
appreciably to relieve Germany’s shortage. As in
the case of iron ore, a sudden expansion in exports
of pig-iron to Germany is impracticable ; Russia has
no exportable surplus. Russia has always been a lead-
ing producer and exporter of manganese and, if
transport were available, she could easily supply Ger-
many’s import requirements. On the other hand,
Russia is short of other steel alloys and of most of
the non-ferrous metals.
It is very unlikely that Germany would be able to
obtain vast quantities of oil from Russia, whose out-
put has not kept pace with her own requirements.
Russia has been compelled to curtail exports substan-
tially, from about six million tons in 1932 to 1,100,000
tons last year. Moreover, Russia exports her oil
through the Black Sea; owing to the shortage of rail-
way tank cars —in addition to the general strain on the
railways—it would be quite impossible to send large
quantities overland. Despite Germany’s efforts to
reduce her dependence on foreign oil supplies, her
peace-time import requirements are still about five
million tons per annum-—very much greater in war.
The extent to which Germany could supplement
her raw-material resources from Russia is therefore
strictly limited. Russia could supply Germany on a
large scale only if she were willing to reduce her own
consumption of raw materials and foodstuffs—that is,
to increase Germany’s war potential at the expense of
her own. But, even then, the volume of trade between
the two countries would be severely limited by lack
of transport facilities. In sum, it would take years of
preparation before Russia could make good some of
Germany’s principal deficiencies, and it would then
be possible only if she would grant large credits to
her voracious new friend.
One View of German Character.
(From a “Contemporary Review” article by George
Glasgow .)
It is necessary to concede a considerable weight
of argument to those who see in the character of the
German people something which makes difficult any
reasonable accommodation with them. It cannot be
wholly an accident that in our time Germany has
twice dislocated the entire business of British civilisa-
tion. It cannot be the case that Germany has been
wholly right and Britain wholly wrong in both cases.
The real difficulty that is encountered by fair-
minded British people is that with the best will in the
world we sooner or later discover in the character of
any single German that we know something that is
radically antagonistic. The familiar diagnosis of a
German affinity to the British character is true only
superficially. The people of every other race on earth
that one knows by personal contact are in a large
measure actuated by the same sort of broad human
feelings that actuate ourselves. In the German, above
a certain level, there is a like sort of common human-
ity ; but when one gets down to bedrock one is forced
to admit that there is a difference of kind.
At bottom the German race has never (in the
highest sense) been civilised nor Christianised. There
have been certain fruits, remarkable in themselves, of
the German intellect; in music, in letters, in science, in
scholarship. But we all know that pure intellect can
be, and mostly is, divorced from true humanity. It is
the case —let the crude fact be crudely stated—that
there is . something elementally insensitive and in-
transigent in the German character.
There is a type of British student of German
affairs who still refuses to believe that such a thing is
possible. During the last war it was the conventional
refuge of such students to pretend that the mass of
the German people were human beings very much
like ourselves, but owing to a too submis-
sive docility and an abused capacity for discipline, by
a madman. At that time it was the Kaiser who was
supposed to have established the monstrous lien over
them. To-day such people again argue, rather incor-
rigibly, a like case. The name of Hitler being sub-
stituted for that of Wilhelm 11., they say exactly the
same thing as before.
If cannot be true twice in living memory that a
whole race of people should be dominated against
their better will or judgment by a madman. There
must be, at any rate, some predisposing susceptibility.
One’s German friends of a quarter of a century’s
standing, who have always appeared to be reasonable
men, are now found in practice to be, all of them, up
to 100 per cent., the devotees of a materialist, atheist,
cunning, unscrupulous, fanatic agitator. The central
fact that Adolf Hitler is a German is the decisive ele-
ment in the several circumstances that have enabled
him to subdue the whole German race to his will. It
is a manifestation of patriotism that amounts to
dementia. There is something peculiar, and some-
thing terrifying, in such a race of people.
When Germany Dictated Terms.
(.From a “National Review” article by the regular
writer on foreign affairs for that publication who signs
himself “A.8.C., etc.”)
Consider just for a moment what terms the Ger-
mans imposed on their defeated foes in the 1914-18
war.
The Russians at Brest-Litovsk were given 48
hours in which to accept the partition of their coun-
try, and 72 hours in which to sign the complete treaty
then presented to them. Germany took the whole of
Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, the
Ukraine, part of White Russia, Georgia and Armenia.
Russia lost a third of her population, a third of her
agricultural land, nine-tenths of her coalmines, four-
fifths of her sugar beet. She had to demobilise com-
pletely— not only her old war army, but her new
workers’ army. Her fleet was td be interned. She
had to give the most explicit assurances to be of good
behavior towards Germany for the future.
Nor was that the end. When the Russians capi-
tulated and signed on March 3, 1918, the Germans
began to have qualms: perhaps they had not taken all
that they might? So they brought forward two more
treaties (or ultimatums) —the Supplementary Treaty of
August 27, 1918, taking more territory along the
Baltic, and imposing other stringent conditions ; and
the Financial Agreement of the same date, imposing
(in defiance of promises only a few weeks old) an in-
demnity of 6,000,000,000 marks and the surrender of
bank deposits and credits.
Russia was large. Only a third of her territory
could be occupied. Rumania was small; therefore the
whole of hers could be taken over and run for the
benefit of Germany. By the Treaty of Bucharest,
March 8, 1917, Rumania lost 10,000 square miles of
territory, with a population of nearly a million. Pro-
duce was requisitioned to the value of £50,000,000 —
never to be paid for. Germans were to be given liberty
to buy up Rumanian land as and when required. Ger-
many was given control of all railways, posts and
telegraphs. She was to control the Danube. She was
to buy petrol at her own price, duty free. Her troops
were to be free to garrison themselves in Rumania
at any time. Her engineers and experts were to be
brought in to run the industries. Rumania, in short,
was to become an annexe of Germany, a slave-State.
That was the mood of Germany triurtiphant.
Add to the mood of 1917 the specialised barbarism of
modern Germany—shown in the harsher discipline,
the tortures of the concentration camp, the larger lies,
the still more feverish planning for war—and then a
slight picture may be formed of the menace that now
faces Europe.
Billeting Children and Mothers.
[How the transfer of children and mothers from
London and other danger zones to places of safety
from air raids was organised and effected, and some
of its problems and disadvantages, as seen by one who
helped with the huge job at the receiving end, are out-
lined by R. C. K. Ensor in the article here condensed
from London “Spectator.”]
The evacuation of school-children, mothers with
young children and expectant mothers from the most
endangered British cities has in its planning and per-
formance constituted a remarkable feat.
Earlier in the year at the “reception” town in the
Home Counties where I live the local council was
called on to ascertain billeting capacity. It divided
the area into districts, appointed in each a local woman
resident as district officer, and arranged for her to
collect a staff of local women visitors—like herself,
unpaid volunteers. The visitors called at every house
in the area, saw the housewife, scheduled the number
of rooms and occupants, and settled how many each
would take voluntarily, or could be compelled to take
if compulsion were applied. In this way there was
built up not merely a record, but a corps of people
who had personal knowledge of the houses.
When the evacuation began, each district officer
and her staff were assembled in a convenient school-
room, to which the incomers were conveyed direct
from the station. The evacuation superintendent, in
consultation with her billeting officers, assigned each
case to its billet, taking into account any facts shown
on the papers or brought to her attention by the ac-
companying teachers. The children, with the billet-
ing officer concerned in each case, were then promptly
driven to their billets by owner-drivers who volun-
teered their cars for the work.
On the first day this machinery went like clock-
work. The incomers were mostly school-children with
teachers and escorts, and their numbers were well
within the accommodation. The spirit of helpfulness
shown all round was magnificent; the billeting officers,
the housewives and the car-owners all striving with
inexhaustible patience and good temper to fit the
pieces of the jigsaw puzzle together.
The next day brought a much severer strain.
Instead of the school-children and teachers for which
it was scheduled, the place suddenly had thrown at it
from London a mass of mothers with younger chil-
dren. Accommodating, say, two children or an adult
is every different from accommodatnig a mother with
children; and households ready for the one were
quite unequal to facing the other. What made it worse
was that many of the new arrivals were the lowest
grade of slum women —slatternly, malodorous tatter-
demalions trailing children to match—whereas most of
the houses in the reception area were those of pros-
perous artisans with neat, clean homes and habits of
refinement.
The receiving machinery was tasked near break-
ing-point. Few homes could even on paper take in
the newcomers, and most of those that could were in
arms against doing so. Only the infinite patience and
tact of the billeting officers achieved any solution at all.
A third stage was, on succeeding days, that of
revision and readjustment. A house which had
taken boys wanted to exchange with one near by
which had taken girls. Children from the same family
or the same class were brought together. The Lon-
don teachers, who had been round their children’s
billets, made many practical suggestions. Victims on
whom slum mothers had been billeted, and who had
already found their quarrelsomeness, acquisitiveness
and dirt utterly intolerable, insisted on and obtained
release.
So the evacuation is over. The policy of billeting
a large proportion of the nation’s children away from
their homes has been carried out. How will it work
in the sequel? That is a different matter. Many of
those who, at the country end, have worked hardest
and most loyally to carry the move through have
least belief in the policy involved.
It was hard to hear with patience the nonsense
of the popular Pangloss whom the 8.8. C. employed
to broadcast on this topic. Perhaps “cheerio” was the
only note to sound on such an occasion. But it would
have rung truer if it had not descended to such ab-
surdities as to claim that the London children as a
result of the move would be “better educated,” “better
behaved” and “healthier.” Better educated by being
deprived of all the splendid equipment of their L.C.C.
schools, and taught for half a day only in inferior
buildings! Better behaved by being taken from the
care of their parents and homes, and given in exchange,
not the discipline of an institution (such as boarding
schools give), but, to a large extent, no discipline
whatever! Healthier by sleeping overcrowded in
strangers’ houses!
Sound principles of daily life, whether in war or
peace, are that as far as possible the man should stay
by his work, the woman with the man, and the children
with the woman. We have abandoned these principles
on a vast scale for no valid reason but our dearth of
proper air shelters. As soon as that lack is remedied'
we ought to reconsider very seriously what we have
done.
The U.S.A. and Europe.
[Some of the most abusive and sneering criticism of
Britain and France over Czechoslovakia came from
America. In this extract from his book, Security —
Can We Retrieve It?, Sir Arthur Salter comments on
the U.S.A.’s position in regard to the deterioration in
European affairs since 1918. His comment is none the
less pointed for being diplomatic and restrained.]
I believe that I understand and appreciate the
causes which separated America from the attempt to
establish an effective League of Nations after the war,
and thus relieved her of the measure of responsibility
which rested upon Great Britain at the time of the
Czechoslovak crisis. Her interests, too, though ulti-
mately affected, were much more remote. She had no
commitments ; and certainly the President at that time
did all that he could, as he has done since, within the
limits set by the main lines of American policy and
by the traditional attitude of the American people,
to exert a helpful influence.
All that is true. But it is also true, of course,
that America was not in fact at that time assuming
any risk in respect of the defence of international law,
and that even if she had accepted a responsibility like
our own by being a member of the League of Nations,
her actual risks would have been very small indeed by
comparison with what was involved for European
States.
As a member of the League, she could by the
prospect of economic sanctions have exercised a de-
terrent influence which would probably have been de-
cisive and would probably have not involved her in a
war. And, even if war had come, it would have had
very much less serious consequences for a country
three thousand miles away than for those whose capi-
tals are within an hour of hostile bombers.
The reasons for America’s abstention from the
League system, and therefore from any effective re-
sponsibility in regard to a particular European crisis,
are easily to be understood. But should not that
abstention, I would respectfully suggest, at least induce
a certain hesitation and restraint in her criticism of
others?
To an Englishman or Frenchman, on the other
hand, who has felt bitterly sometimes that if all'the
democracies were together facing the challenge to all
alike all would be safe, I would say: “You know how
far you have gone in seeking an isolation from the
dangers of others, even where the geographical situa-
tion made such isolation, in the long run, patently
impossible. If there had been three thousands miles
of sea between you and the danger, would you in fact
have been in favor of intervention? Perhaps you
would have realised intellectually that you ought to,
and that it was in your interest to do so ; but are you
confident in fact that you would have?” An honest
answer would in most cases change their mood.
To an American, however, I would in turn say:
“Will you consider coolly what exactly was involved
in the action you are blaming others for not having
taken ; the extent of the risk that would have been
involved by your country taking an active part in the
maintenance of the peace system during the previous
years ; how small was the chance that it would bring
you into war, how small in comparison the loss and
sacrifice that war would involve for you, even if it
did? And do you not then understand why it is that
even if a Frenchman or an Englishman feels regret
and humiliation at the September decision, and may
listen with some shame, and without resentment, to
reproaches from any European, he cannot accept them
from an American?”


DID
YOU
KNOW
7
■
Did you know that Mr. L. J. Keast
used a standard Ultimate Radio
when compiling a log of over 400
short-wave stations?
. . . .That this short-wave log was
featured recently in “Wireless
Weekly”?
. . .That Ultimate Champion Radio
can enable you to listen to short-wave
stations you have never heard before,
can bring you news of the moment
easily, clearly, from overseas?
EUROPEAN STATIONS.
....That Germany, for instance,
broadcasts five news sessions in Eng-
lish every day?
.... That these sessions can be heard
on the following stations?
DJD — 25.49 metres —
5 a.m. and 7.10 a.m.
DJQ — 19.63 metres —
5 p.m., 10 p.m. and 12 midnight.
DJB — 19.74 metres —
10 p.m. and 12 midnight.
EASTERN STATIONS.
T hat news sessions in English
are broadcast over the following
Eastern stations?
JVWS Tokio — 25.6 metres—
-7.55 p.m.
Radio Saigon F.1.C. — 49.05 metres —
-9 p.m.
XGOY Chungkim — 2s.2 metres —
9.15 p.m.
ZHP Singapore — 3o.96 metres —
-10 p.m.
KZRM Manila — 3l.3s metres —
-10.50 p.m.
HEAR THESE
NEWS SESSIONS
ON
ULTIMATE
Champion RADIO
\
■
m
litf
$
:
m i s
HMH
Get OVERSEAS NEWS
as clearly as local broadcasts
" ,he ULTIMATE
Never has European history been stepped up to such a high tempo.
News to-day is entirely changed to-morrow. Keep in direct touch
with overseas situations with “ULTIMATE” Champion Radio.
“Ultimate” Champion Radio is custom-built to give matchless
performance. Every ultra-modern radio luxury is incorporated.
Overseas stations can be perfectly tuned, even by a child. Overseas
reception strength is equal to that obtained in ordinary sets from
local stations.
There is no “surge” . . . just crystal-clear reception, whether it’s
Moscow or Melbourne, Berlin or Adelaide. Models are available
for either A.C. or battery operation, and a cabinet choice of either
a full console or handsome mantel model. “Ultimate” Champion
radio costs nothing to test!
■ ■ /
r ■ Log Chart giving positive identification of over 400
m S overseas stations and details of “Ultimate” Champion
IfUir' • Rad, °■
JT NAME
|| ADDRESS
k
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD.,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Melbourne juveniles were publicly
tested for the first time at Flemington
on Saturday, when the V.R.C. held its
October meeting. No fewer than 64
youngsters, sported silk, there being 16
runners in each division of the Mari-
byrnong Trial Stakes for (1) fillies and (2)
colts and geldings.
Ten O’Clock (Manfred-Billenya) won
the first section of the fillies’ event at
25 to 1, but this was the only surprise,
track trials working out excellently other-
wise. Trained by D. Walsh, a trotting
reinsman, Ten O’Clock was picked up
for 80 guineas at the autumn sales by
Mrs. M. Strachan, of Bairnsdale, whose
father, E. Hannan, resides at Mackay
(Q.), and has been prominently
associated with the turf there for many
years.
Les Aldridge bred Ten O’Clock at his
Sunbury stud. The dam, Billenya, is by
Burrabadeen (son of Bobadil), and runs
back to Sufficiency, a sister of Abun-
dance. In the season of 1902-3 Abun-
dance swept the board of three-year-old
classics at Randwick and Flemington.
Poorly handled, he ran third in The
Victory’s Melbourne Cup.
As a breeder Aldridge was still more
gratified when The Aisle (Law Maker-
Bridal Path) made a dead-heat for first
with Heart’s Desire, by Ronsard, in the
second contest for fillies. Heart’s Desire
(3-to-l favorite) was in two points better
demand than her rival, but The Aisle
seemed to be travelling stronger on the
post. Law Maker, by Phalaris, promises
to be a fashionable sire if one can judge
by his first crop of thoroughbreds.
Both divisions of the Maribyrnong
Trial Stakes for colts and geldings were
appropriated by Gay Lothario colts.
Lucrative (out of Balkan Star) scored by
a neck from Florin (Christopher Robin-
Coinage), with whom he disputed
favoritism. This pair fought out an ex-
citing finish, but Procyon (out of Mizar)
completely outclassed his second division
rivals.
Procyon set up fastest time (54fsec.)
for the 4\ furlongs, and was never ex-
tended. He is the galloping “find”
among Victorian juveniles up to date.
Billy Bamford, former amateur rider
over fences, bought him for 450 guineas.
The dam, Mizar, is by Great Star (imp.)
from Beneficiary (imp.), and comes
from the same family as Solario, winner
of the English St. Leger and Ascot Gold
Cup.
Harry Freedman, trainer of Lucrative,
has done exceedingly well with
youngsters from the St. Albans stud at
Geelong, his chief success, of course,
being the Maribyrnong Plate of 1936 with
Sweet Memories. The joint purchase of
Lucrative by R. M. McLean and F. N.
Levin had a romantic background. They
became acquainted at the ringside.
Both wanted the Balkan Star colt. Freed-
man induced them to buy in conjunction.
McLean is a wholesale butcher at Dan-
denong ; Levin makes tin canisters and
other metalware at Carlton.
Last spring Ajax set up a Flemington
record of lmin. 35ysec. for one mile. It
was a pity that he did not compete in the
Melbourne Stakes on Saturday. Manrico,
the winner, scored, running away, and
would have been a thorn in the side of
Frank Musgrave’s champion. He was
only a second outside of Ajax’s time
figures and could have done better.
Manrico may prove as useful to Holt as
Sir Ibex and Highland were in years
gone by.
Because of his Quality Handicap
failure at Moonee Valley a week before,
when third to Crojick and Hilton —
beaten “long head ; half-head” —Manrico
was allowed to go out at 11 to 2. El
Golea and Hilton shared favoritism at
fours. However, the followers of Jack
Holt’s stable believed the “Valley” form
to be wrong, and they helped themselves
to nice odds about Manrico.
Drawn on almost the extreme outside
of a field of 15, Manrico did not reach
the front until nearly a furlong had been
traversed. After that he bounded away
in Phar Lap fashion, leading by eight
lengths at six furlongs. Glenfmo kept
nearest throughout and beat Hilton half
a head for second. Stamina is considered
to be the main forte of Glenfmo, and
this Portofino colt may have to be
reckoned with in the Melbourne Cup.
Fourth, two lengths behind the place-
getters, El Golea definitely is a good
deal below his Newmarket Handicap
form. None of the Cup candidates
shaped with much credit; the speed of
Manrico may have carried them off their
legs. Pageant and Gay Prince never
showed up, and Footmark whipped-in the
field. Marketable at sevens, Donaster put
in a strong run over the concluding two
furlongs and was fifth.
Lou Robertson, the Mordialloc trainer,
sustained two severe reverses. Zonda, his
Manifold Stakes representative, was
backed to evens, but struck her colors to
Border Lass, a stablemate of the third
filly, Snow White. In the Stand Handi-
cap odds of 11 to 4 were accepted about
Alarm after an opening quote of 9 to 2.
At no stage did Alarm look dangerous.
In generous galloping humor for once,
Carpentier (tens) landed the Stand Handi-
cap by a neck from Maikai, who came
on the scene a trifle too late. There
were 24 runners, who could not be ac-
commodated at the H miles barrier with
any degree of comfort. Several horses
got away badly, and others were seriously
hampered in the first few furlongs.
Harold Badger, who rode Carpentier,
had previously been successful on Procyon,
Border Lass and Manrico. These four
victories were in a row. Badger is on
the top of the wave as a jockey.
In a recent issue I commented on
Manrico’s great chance of winning the
Cantala Stakes, in which he has 8.5.
Some of the critics held that a mile at
Flemington was sure to stop him. In
the Melbourne Stakes he disposed of
that idea, as, with 9.3, he won as he
pleased in 1.361, time that compared
more than favorably with that recorded
in any other race during the afternoon.
Hilton, who had 91b. more than his
Cantala weight, was third, but there does
not seem much hope for El Golea in
the Flemington race. Compared with
Manrico he will be 131 b. worse off,
while the latter will also meet Ena 51b.
better. Keelie, who • evidently ran fairly
in the Melbourne Stakes with 8.12, drops
to 7.5, and Carpentier, winner of Satur-
day’s Stand Handicap with 7.13, has
7.9. He and Keelie may be among Man-
rico’s troublesome opponents, while of
the possible starters from Sydney
Bramol now reads as well as any. How-
ever, if there is anything in figures J.
M. Niall is well in line for a win with
Manrico.
* * * *
On what is known in Sydney of Bour-
bon, he is not a miler, but he was one
of the few backed at. a long price for
the Melbourne Stakes. He was never
dangerous, but as he had 9.8 he did fairly
to finish in the middle of the field. Bour-
bon still holds a prominent place in the
Caulfield Cup betting, but he impresses
me as having a better chance of shining
in the Melbourne Cup. He won the
Randwick Plate with 9st. in 3.25 for
the two miles, and then ran second
in the Melbourne Cup with 7.12. As
he subsequently won the V.R.C. Handi-
cap, li miles, with 8.10, there seems no
doubt as to his being up to his Cup
weight of 8.11.
That represents 81b. less than weight-
for-age, and he would probably have
found backing against Royal Chief and
Mosaic if it had been possible for him
to have met them on those terms in the
recent Randwick Plate. The trouble,
though, in ending doubles with Bourbon,
is that his connections evidently fancy
his chance of winning the first leg. If
he should run respectably at Caulfield,
though without winning, he will certainly
be worth a bet for the Melbourne Cup.
Totalisator investments for the four
days of the AJ.C. spring meeting aggre-
gated £181,057 10s. This was a falling
off as compared with last year, when a
total of £199,572 15s. was put through.
* * * *
On Monday Fearless and Feminist
were at the head of the Caulfield Cup
quotations, followed by Geebung,
Respirator and Reading. Then came
Bourbon and Rivette, succeeded by
Buzalong and Maikai. Mosaic was the
popular pick for the Melbourne Cup,
with Feminist next, and then Bourbon,
Reading and Wilson in that order. Next
week gives time for a final selection, but
I am giving Rivette preference. Of the
others, I have most liking for Geebung
and Feminist, though there is no getting
away from the fact of figures saying a
lot for Fearless.
In last week’s issue I wrote that the
day following the Derby Fligh Caste
looked none the worse for the hard tussle
he had in that race, and in the Craven
Plate he ran as if it had benefited him.
Entering the straight he was behind Gold
Rod, Beau Vite and Seven Fifty, who
were bunched, but a furlong from home
he came through in brilliant fashion, and
at the end was altogether too good for
Beau Vite, whose rider took him to the
leaders very sharply after passing the
three furlongs. However, it would not
have made any difference even if he had
waited a little longer.
Gold Rod peeked on jumping off, but
so quickly recovered himself that he led
before going 100 yards. Then Seven
Fifty joined him. It is improbable the
slight mistake affected Gold Rod’s
chance to any extent, and between him
and Beau Vite form worked out cor-
rectly. The latter, as in a shorter race,
the Canterbury Stakes, finished the better.
Beau Vite is not a big fellow, and was
probably feeling the effects of his Derby
effort more than High Caste, whose
trainer’s idea that he would continue to
improve with racing is working out cor-
rectly. ' While Gold Rod is nearly, if not
quite, as good as ever he was up to a
mile, age is not improving him as a
stayer. He was very tired at the finish,
as were Seven Fifty and St. Constant.
As the track was not really fast on
Wednesday, the time, 2.4, was excellent.
The final half-mile was timed to be run
in 48isec., and as that would be from the
leaders, Gold Rod and Seven Fifty,
High Caste did a little better. It is not a
race that has greatly favored three-year-
olds, and High Caste was the first winner
of that age since Phar Lap in 1931.
* * * *
Writing before acceptance day it is
hard to select certain runners for the
Toorak Handicap, for which El Golea
(8.11) and Ena (8.7) dead-heated last
year. Both are again engaged, but El
Golea has gone up 71b., and Ena only
21b. Both were backed for last Satur-
day’s Melbourne Stakes, in which they
met at level weights. Ena was promi-
ment for a long way, and, though El
Golea finished ahead of her, a difference
of 71b. as compared with that race
should give Ena an advantage in the
Toorak. Lower down Tetreen, Keelie,
Glenfino and Denis Girl are among
the possibilities, and I expect a place-
getter or two to come from Ena, Tetreen,
Denis Girl and Keelie. As the last-
mentioned two are in the same owner-
ship, it is unlikely both will run, but
whichever is the stable elect should take
a lot of beating.
* * * *
Randwick results must have exceeded
even B. Payten’s most sanguine antici-
pations. Seven wins, two seconds, a
third and £7630 in stakes is a record he
will find difficult to improve upon at
AJ.C. headquarters. Presumably he re-
ceives the customary 10 per cent, for
winners, in which case his reward would
be nearly £750. I am unaware whether
Payten bets to any extent, but it might
be safe to say he had something on each
of his winners, and grateful owners do
not, as a rule, restrict their payments to
bare fees.
W. Cook was associated with Payten
in five of his wins, and his return for
his four days’ work was sufficiently great
to make many members of the legal and
medical professions wish they could do
as well in a year. Cook is a high-class
rider, and was seen at his best. If he does
nearly as well in Melbourne he will have
good reason to be pleased that he de-
cided not to return to India, despite the
big retaining fee he would have com-
manded.
* * * *
In winning the Members’ Handicap
Katanga ran better than when success-
ful in the Trial Stakes on the opening
day at Randwick, and further demon-
strated that The Buzzard’s stock im-
prove with racing. A decision as to
whether Katanga is to be sent to Mel-
bourne or to Brisbane for the Q.T.C.
Derby will not be made until after next
Saturday.
• • • • • •
In the light of Dashing Cavalier’s
form against High Caste in the Clibborn
Stakes the northern trip might be advis-
able. When Katanga won the Members’
Handicap he was in receipt of 91b. from
Dashing Cavalier, who ran a fair third,
while in the Clibborn Stakes High Caste
had no difficulty in giving Dashing
Cavalier 101 b. As the latter only ran
sixth in the Derby it would appear that
Katanga still has a fairly wide gap to
bridge to take him up to the form neces-
sary for a Victoria Derby. It is, how-
ever, unwise to say much against win-
ning form. If Katanga should be sent
to Brisbane the Q.T.C. Derby is unlikely
to provide “easy money” for him. There
are at least a couple of good three-year-
olds there, and results have proved that
northern horses are hard to beat on their
own ground.
* * * *
The question of superiority between
High Caste and Reading has yet to be
decided. At a mile and a quarter my
vote would be definitely for the former,
but there is no getting away from the
fact that in the Derby Reading outstayed
High Caste after the latter looked like
disposing of him. At the same time I
think High Caste was a little better
when he won the Craven Plate than on
Derby Day. Anyhow, the run from the
three furlongs to the winning post at
Flemington will try both out as stayers
at a mile and a half. Beau Vite’s pros-
pects of beating either are not now in-
viting, but there is a general belief that
Wilson will improve.
High Caste and Reading will be com-
peting at Caulfield, and while the latter
may have a severer race in the Caulfield
Cup than the former in the Guineas he
will have a fortnight in which to recover.
Whether J. T. Cush can have Reading
in better condition than at the AJ.C.
meeting is doubtful, but, if he remains
as well, his owner and trainer will have
reason to be satisfied. Although I
expect High Caste to reverse AJ.C.
Derby positions in the Victoria Derby,
there cannot be much in it.
Reports vary as to how much H. E.
Tancred gave for High Caste, but it is
not improbable that £7OOO is fairly cor-
rect. Even at that figure he has proved
a good investment, his earnings for his
present owner being as under:
First, V.R.C. Sires’ Produce .. .. £2555
First, Ascot Vale Stakes .. .. .. 1050
Second, AJ.C. Sires’ Produce .. .. 600
First, AJ.C. Champagne .. .. .. 1900
First, Hobartville Stakes .. .. .. 600
First, Rosehill Guineas .. .. ~ 630
Third, Clarendon Stakes .. .. .. 30
Second, AJ.C. Derby .. .. .. 800
First, Craven Plate .. .. .. 1125
First, Clibborn Stakes .. .. .. 520
£9BlO
That is the amount High Caste has won
for his Australian owner, but his total
since his arrival in Victoria early this
year is £10,060, as the V.R.C. Sires’
FOR CAULFIELD.
(By “SENTRY")
Iolo Welter: Sir Harold, 1;
Eligible, 2; Soltoi, 3.
Debutant Stakes (colts and geld-
ings) : Procyon, 1 ; Aboriginal, 2 ;
Earl Marshal, 3.
Debutante Stakes (for fillies):
Rangi, 1 ; Heart’s Desire, 2; Much
to Say, 3.
Caulfield Guineas: High Caste,1 ;
Reading, 2 ; Wilson, 3.
Herbert Power Handicap: Or-
telle’s Star, 1 ; Respirator, 2;
Donor’s Hill, 3.
Toorak Handicap: Tetreen, 1 ;
Crojick, 2 ; Ena, 3.
FOR RANDWICK.
By "PILOT."
Novice Handicap: Gas, 1 ; Bel,
2; Melorada, 3.
Two-year-old Stakes: Victorine,
1 ; All Agog, 2; The Elk, 3.
Flying Handicap: Aureus, 1 ;
Caesar, 2 ; Denis, 3.
City Tattersall’s Handicap:
Osculum, 1 ; Pantler, 2; Braid-
wood Boy. 3.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Benburb, 1; Kooba, 2; The
Kaiser, 3.
Club Welter: Rex, 1 ; Nor-
mandy, 2 ; Windbrook, 3.


SAVE MONEY
■ ITS
THRIFTY
Cvßto install
new l!
CHAMPIONS
Bring FUEL ECONOMY
Worn plugs waste fuel. Install
new Champions. They ensure
fuller combustion of the fuel.
Less carbon. More power and a
smoother-running engine. Fuel
lasts longer and you soon are
repaid the cost of the spark
plugs ... and more! Champions
actually save you money.
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
\)
uu'.V
CITY TATTERS ALL’S CLUB
SPRING RACE MEETING.
RANDWICK,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14th, 1939.
FIRST RACE —1.30 p.m.
CITY TATTERS ALL’S HANDICAP OF £lOOO,
One Mile and a Quarter.
And Other Events.
SPFCIAL TRAMS DIRECT TO THE RACECOURSE.
IK -• « Cross and Bondi Junction to the
A Service of Buses will run from i.mg s <~ross ana d j
Racecourse. .
ALL RACES WILL BE DESCRIBED IN RUNNING THROUGH AMPLIFIERS.
Ad mi . S lo» Tickets
OFFICIAL STAND TICKETS' WILL BE SOLD ON THE RACECOURSE ONLY
OFFICIAL STAND TJCK r ENCLOSURES .
/ PAT O’LEARY, Secretary.
198-200 Pitt St., Sydney.
Produce Stakes gave A. J. McGovern
£lOO as nominator, and the A.J.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes £l5O.
* * * *
B. R. Payten formed a high opinion
of Trueness soon after he put her into
training, and the result of the Gimcrack
Stakes proved that it was warranted.
She was favorite throughout, but,
though she jumped away smartly, Happy
Bay and Dark Elegance outpaced her in
the first quarter-mile, and turning into
the straight her success seemed doubt-
ful. When the leading three passed
where I sat, half a furlong from home,
Happy Bay was a neck ahead of Dark
Elegance, with Trueness over a length
further away, and, though she was
struggling on gamely, it did not look as
if she would be able to make up her lee-
way.
It surprised me when her number went
up on top, and she must have put in
great work over the final fifty yards.
Victorine, Haridelle, Contestor and
Addition all ran fairly, the last-named
from a bad post position, but from the
top of the straight there did not appear
much likelihood of the winner coming
from anything outside the three that
filled the places. Bred by Sir Hugh
Denison, Trueness is a sister to Marengo,
being by the Blandford horse Harinero
(brother to the English Derby winner
Trigo) from Truest, by Treclare from
Guest, by Woorak. Mrs. M. J.
Mackay paid 550 guineas for her
as a yearling. Trueness is in the
Debutante Stakes at Caulfield on Satur-
day, and, though she has no penalty, the
fact of the distance being a furlong
shorter than the Gimcrack Stakes may
not be in her favor.
* * * *
The war is naturally contributing to
thriftiness, but, with the weather perfect
and the possibility of interesting racing, a
drop in the attendance at Randwick on
Saturday from the 36,500 of last spring
to 30,000 was surprising. The totalisator
turnover decreased from £40,873 ss. to
£37,547 10s. Gauged by Randwick the
outlook of the minor clubs is not nearly
so bright as a few months ago, and
owners’ anticipations of greatly-increased
prize-money may not be realised.
* * * *
Victorine, who gave J. E. Pike his
first Randwick win as a trainer, was a
cheap yearling, costing W. J. Smith only
l lOgns. He leased her to the two owners
who race in partnership as “A. H.
Serghes.” She is by Melfort from Gal-
lant Victory (Somme Kiss-Marie Gal-
ante). In the Gimcrack Stakes she had
a bad barrier position, but ran sufficiently
well to assure her favoritism for the
Canonbury Stakes, and, though behind
Miss Kuvera and The Elk (El Cacique-
Yule Cake) turning into the straight, was
too good for the latter at the finish. She
could have made her win more decisive.
Peruke, who ran third, is a half-brother,
by Veilmond, to Veilantif, and, as a
yearling, was bought privately by knight
Samuel Hordern.
He is sure to win races, as is All Agog,
an Excitement colt. From a position
wide out at the barrier he finished fourth.
Valve was too badly drawn to ever have
a look in, but Overjoyed (Grand Joy-
Golden Glory) made a promising show-
ing. He is one of A. G. Papworth’s team.
Out of the winning list since the 1938
Sydney Cup, L’Aiglon returned to it in
the Waverley Handicap, in which Munro
rode him a better-judged race than in the
Sydney Handicap on Wednesday. He did
not allow him to drop so far out in the
early part, and, second to the tiring
Young Crusader at the turn, he settled
the latter immediately the straight was
entered. L’Aiglon scored comfortably
from Head Check, whom he met only a
pound better than when she beat him
for second in the Sydney Handicap.
Vestal, though third, never looked a
winning possibility. I am afraid Young
Crusader can be numbered among the
“has-beens.” With the pace slow he
slipped away with a lead of half a dozen
lengths near the six furlongs, and, though
he had only 7.8, against 8.4 when he made
the Australian record of 2.55 in the cor-
responding race last year, he finished last
in 3.3|. Red Sails could not have looked
better, and never ran worse. He is not
to race in Melbourne.
Caesar’s performance in the Chester
Handicap was the best of the day. Last
at one stage, he came home in such bril-
liant fashion that he won easing up from
a smart field. Consistent Red Thespian
was second, followed by Benburb,
Brazandt and Beechwood. The last-
named had no luck in running, or would
have been closer. He will be worth fol-
lowing in Melbourne. It was in keeping
with G. Price’s luck at the meeting that
Normandy and Denis were drawn on the
outside. At one stage Normandy worked
up to fourth, but he had nothing to do
with the finish, nor had Denis, who was
forced out very wide entering the straight.
Olympus’s second at his first run in
Sydney evidently caused him to be over-
rated, but Aureus is again worth keeping
in mind. Belvoir made a wretched show-
ing, and, though The Kaiser and Merry
Smile did the pacemaking, they were
well back at the winning-post.
With only three starters it was antici-
pated the Randwick Plate would be
falsely run, and the pace was little more
than a canter when Mosaic led past the
judge’s box the first time round from
Royal Chief and Bristol in that order.
It improved six furlongs from home.
When Mosaic led into the straight from
Bristol, with Royal Chief last, and Bartle
hard at work on him, it seemed as if they
would finish in that order, but, though
Royal Chief had to go round the other
two beginning the final furlong, he raised
what seemed an almost impossible finish-
ing run, and beat Mosaic in the last
couple of strides. Royal Chief surprised
even his rider, E. Bartle.
A stronger pace throughout would
probably have been to Mosaic’s advan-
tage, and his failure should not be
counted greatly against his Melbourne
Cup chance. Half the prize-money re-
verted to the club, owing to the time
being against the prescribed limit
of 3.35. In 1934 the time was 3.45£, the
winner, Nightly, also being trained by
F. D. Jones, who has Royal Chief.
*•*•*■*;
High Caste made light of his 101 b.
penalty in the Clibborn Stakes. He
waited on Mettara and Binnia Hero until
the straight was reached, and after dis-
posing of those two inside the last fur-
long had no difficulty in stalling off Dash-
ing Cavalier, who is consistent, though
not first-class. On figures the race looked
a certainty for High Caste, and that
was how it turned out. It gave him his
fourth win of the season, and it is diffi-
cult to select anything likely to defeat
him in the Caulfield Guineas. There was
a little money for Penthides, but he was
outclassed. Last year Respirator, from
J. T. Jamieson’s stable, and also ridden
by E. Bartle, won the Clibborn Stakes.
The Final Handicap was a race of
several changes after the field turned into
the straight. At the Leger Breeze looked
a winner, but less than a hundred yards
from home Pen Name appeared likely to
give the surprise result of the meeting.
Then Leif and Braidwood Boy joined in,
and in a great finish the former won by
a neck, which, I suppose, gives her a
chance of a Melbourne trip. Salazar was
fourth without ever really threatening
danger, and as Speardale did not even
do as well as in the Suburban Handicap
his very late arrival by float from
Menangle must have adversely affected
him.
Adios got away badly, and, subse-
quently striking a deal of trouble, was
one of the whippers-in, completing an un-
lucky meeting for his trainer, who a
fortnight ago appeared to have particu-
larly bright prospects. But that is the
luck of racing.
$ >jc :> $
If Geebung can run a mile and a half
as well as he can a mile, he will be a
tough proposition for Feminist in the
Caulfield Cup. I doubt whether she
would have been equal to winning the
Epsom with B.lo—Geebung carried 7.10
—and a stone separates them at Caulfield.
Feminist has it in her favor that she has
shown she can get a mile and a half, and
we know nothing of Geebung beyond a
mile. Still, he is from a mare that stayed
fairly.
• •••**
As Marvel Loch and Maple won with
8.7, Feminist will not have to put up a
weight-carrying record for a mare in
order to succeed. At the same time, on
form shown at the A.J.C. meeting, she
will have three formidable opponents in
other Sydney horses —Geebung, Reading
and Fearless. The last-named meets her
211 b. better than in the Metropolitan,
and, applying the w.f.a. scale, Reading is
at a disadvantage of only 41b. with the
Pantheon mare. Reading beat High
Caste in the Derby, and, on w.f.a. terms,
the latter was too good for the older
horses, Gold Pan, Seven Fifty and St.
Constant, in the Craven Plate.
#••••*
It would be inadvisable to say that
success in the Caulfield Cup was. beyond
an improving mare like Feminist with
91b. more than her Metropolitan weight,
but, adding Bourbon, Respirator, Rivette
and Buzalong to those mentioned, it
will be realised that her task is going to
be difficult. Besides which she will be
lucky if she gets such a smooth run
throughout as in the Metropolitan.
* * * *
It was a coincidence that the last two
mares successful in the Metropolitan were
from dams who also won that race,
Jocelyn, the 1928 winner, was a daughter
of Maltine, both being owned by the
late J. S. Brunton. Maltine was greatly
fancied for the 1909 Epsom, but, though
ridden by J. Barden, 8.13 proved too
much for her. She finished third. A
mile and a half—the Metropolitan was
then that distance—was supposed to be
beyond her, and, though she had 91b.
less than in the Epsom, she started at 25
to 1. Ridden by W. Osborne, she won
nicely. J. Barden had a prior engagement
for Lord Nolan, who started favorite at
5 to 1, and was unplaced.
As is generally known, Loquacious, dam
of Feminist, was well backed for the 1929
Epsom, and, after missing a place in that
with 8.11, won the Metropolitan with the
same weight. The Epsom winner, Night
March (9.12), ran second, and subse-
quently pulled off the Melbourne Cup
with 9.2.
* * * *
Bookmakers did not have many bright
spots during the four days of the A.J.C.
meeting. Geebung suited them much
better in the Epsom Handicap (hart
would three or four others, and Reading s
Derby win was to their liking, but in the
minor races backers made few mistakes.
Climax and Leif were the only two that,
in those events, really benefited the Ring.
Pen Name would have given them a
great win if she had been successful in
the Final Handicap. As much as 50 to 1
was offered against her, but, as her news-
paper return was 20 to 1, presumably that
was the general quotation.
Relative to starting prices, I have
often heard it argued that the longest
odds offered should be taken as correct.
As “off-the-course” betting is illegal, it
does not greatly matter, but when the
position was somewhat different I never
held with the idea that the last-moment
odds offered by four or five books who
could afford to stretch out to some ex-
tent should completely outweigh those
of, say, nearly 100 others, especially as
a “fiver” would probably have stopped
most of those offering the longer odds.
* * * *
In the past 20 years Valais (Heroic
and Manfred), Limond (Ammon Ra and
Theo) and Pantheon (Peter Pan and
Avenger) are the sires with two winning
representatives in the A.J.C. Derby.
Reading is Marconigram’s first winner
in a Derby or St. Leger in Sydney or
Melbourne, but Marabou gave that sire
a win in the Melbourne Cup.
% % *
After all, weight-for-age racing at
Randwick was ordinary. Royal Chief
and Mosaic had the two longer races to
themselves, and the three-year-olds, High
Caste and Beau Vite, were too good
for the older division in the Craven Plate.
Seven Fifty was either tired or not quite
as good as supposed; probably the
former. If Ajax completely recovers
from his foot trouble, he should have a
good time in the w.f.a. races at Flem-
ington. It is doubtful whether any of
our older lot will trouble him. He should
repeat his victories of last year in the
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes, Linlithgow
Stakes and C. B. Fisher Stakes.
In the Linlithgow Stakes he will have
to keep moving to keep out of the way
of High Caste and Manrico, but it does
not read as if he will have serious opposi-
tion in the other two. At the close of
last season Ajax had £31,410 10s. to his
credit, and was eleventh in the list of
Australasia’s winning horses. Nothing is
certain in racing, but this season should
give him a fair chance of working up to
Limerick (£38,729 10s.) and Heroic
(£38,062 10s.), who are fourth and fifth
respectively. Those above them are Phar
Lap, Amounis and Gloaming.
$ * * *
Chatasan, winner of the Morphettville
Plate at the S.A.J.C. meeting (Adelaide)
last week, was bred at P. Miller’s Kia-
Ora stud in N.S.W., and was bought by
C. Wheeler for 300 guineas on behalf of
Mrs. Harold Bickford. Chatasan is by
Chatham from Cho Cho San, by Absurd
from Madam Butterfly, sister to several
good Maoriland winners. Another N. S.
Wales-bred winner in Adelaide on Satur-
day was Lusson (Melford—La Morna, by
Bardolph), who cost E. E. D. Clarke 650
guineas as a yearling, and is, of course,
trained by J. Scobie, whose first win in
that race was with Sir Rupert Clarke’s
Miltiades in 1900.
* * * *
The death took place last week of
“Jack” Samuel, one of my oldest Sydney
friends, and a man liked and respected
in Sydney and Melbourne sporting circles.
One of his many good qualities was that


MELBOURNE’S
Greatest JJloted
Stay at this great hotel in
the heart of Melbourne,
near shops and theatres,
convenient to trams and
trains. Boom-only tariffs:
Singles, 5/- to 7/d;
Doubles, 8/- to 16/-.
VICTORIA
PALACE
215 Little Collins Street,
(Next Town Hall), Melb.
"SS. «SU!
OEHTM- m -*‘ TES '
1 ci£&H as neW
BEFORE
Fill the cap of the tin
with 'Steradent’ and
pour the powder into a
glass containing sufficient
warm water (not hot) to
cover the dentures—Stir ,
well—Putin your dentures \
and leave them while you \
dress or overnight and take
them out and rinse thoroughly
under the tap. Stains vanish.
AFTER
Discoloured plates and 'gums’ regain their
natural-looking colour. Dull, yellow-tinged
teeth become clean—lustrous, like 'live’ teeth.
'Steradent’ is sold by all Chemists. Price 2/-,
double size 3/6.
IMPORTANT: Be sure you get 'Steradent'.
Dentists recommend it.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LIMITED
(Pharmaceutical Dept.), SYDNEY
Steradent
RECD. TRADE MARK
BRANDALERrS
m
S&5
0"
t*"*
*
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDACER A CO. Ltd.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
PENS
Take Mr. Chamberlain’s advice-
Help Britain
by keeping Australia
Busy and Prosperous
The British Prime Minister has in*
cheated that the best way in which
we cao assist is by maintaining our .
own industrial stability and con-
serving our own resources within
Australia. When you buy Tyres,
you can make a definite contribution
to Australian prosperity, and get the
greatest possible value for yourself,
by specifying Olympic, the all-
Australian Tyre.
OLYMPIC Tyres are made by
Australians in Australia,
and not one penny of wages
or dividends goes overseas
CHOOSE
Olympic
TYRES
Olympic Tyre Distributors
PTY. LTD.
Corner Crown & Stanley Streets, SYDNEY.
he was always ready to hold out a hand
to the man who was down. He raced
several horses, the best being Mooltan,
who, trained by H. Rayner, won the 1907
Metropolitan. He sold Mooltan before
the horse won that race the following
year. In partnership with W. Barry, he.
won the Caulfield Futurity Stakes of 1917
with Balarang, a high-class sprinter.
* * * *
A correspondent, signing himself
“Fairplay,” does not agree with my idea
that there was justification for the hurdles
being placed on the outside of the track
in the First Hurdle Race at Randwick.
He writes as follows:
Dear “Pilot,” —In your turf comment
(B. 4/10/’39) you say “The AJ.C. would
have shown weakness if it had in any way
submitted to the dictation from trainers or
jockeys as to where the jumps should be
placed in hurdle races on a soft track,”
etc. Did you ever know the autocratic
A.J.C. to take any notice of anyone’s
suggestions or advice, whether it was right
or wrong? In this instance the trainer
scratched his own horse and advised the
owner of the other one to do the same —-
however the owner decided to start his
horse, with the result that the horse was
seriously injured. Which goes to prove
that the trainer was right about the plac-
ing of the hurdles.
Why shouldn’t the owner or trainer of
a jumping horse receive as much considera-
tion as the owner of a flat-racer?
Although 99 out of every 100 racing men
would like to see the post positions drawn
for at acceptance time, the AJ.C. will not
adopt it. Why? J presume because the
V.R.C. adopted it first. If you can tell
me any valid reason for not doing so I’ll
be pleased. If it works satisfactorily in
Victoria why not in New South Wales?
I still hold that the A.J.C. was right
in respect of giving good flat-racers more
consideration than moderate hurdlers,
but now that the ruling body has gone
so far as to permit an early draw for
post positions on the course it might
reasonably go further. A draw at accept-
ance time, and insertion in the race-
books, would please the public.
* * * *
If time could always be relied on,
Melbourne’s two-year-old colts must be
superior to the fillies. Ten O’Clock won
her division of the Maribyrnong Trial
Stakes in 55|, and The Aisle dead-heated
Heart’s Desire for their division in 56f.
Lucrative won the first division of the
race for colts and geldings in 55|, and
Procyon the second in 54f. As Procyon
beat the second horse by three lengths
he must be a galloper out of the
ordinary. He is by Gay Lothario, and
was a 450-guineas yearling, as was
Lucrative, who is by the same sire.
* * * *
India greatly improves some Australian
horses. Ethics, who was moderate in
Sydney, developed first-class form over
there. Panaster is going on the same
way; at Poona last month he won the
Criterion, 6 furlongs, and the Trial
Plate, 1 mile. In the latter he was hr
receipt of only a pound from Gay Lover,
who finished first with 8.2 in the Epsom
at Randwick three years ago, but was
disqualified. Critics in India are pro-
phesying that Panaster will make a big
bid for some of the important races in
Calcutta in December and January.
A. Higgins, who trains Panaster and
has also done well with Levant, is very
enthusiastic concerning Australian horses.
In a letter to P. Miller, of Kia-Ora stud,
he wrote: “I have had the best from all
countries, and place the good Australian
horse in front of them all.” In his letter
Higgins expressed a desire to buy a
number of Kia-Ora brood mares for
India, as he expected breeding to take on
in India to a greater extent than in the
past. However, in racing and breeding
in India a great deal will depend upon
the progress of the war.
* * * *
At latest ex-Sydneyite W. Johnstone
was making good progress towards head-
ing the winning jockeys’ list in France
this season. In August he was rapidly
closing on the leader, Rochetti. About the
middle of that month Rochetti was first
with 56 wins, but Johnstone was only
eight behind, and eight ahead of Dupuit,
who was third.
* * * *
Silver Standard was second in the 1936
Metropolitan, Caulfield Cup and Mel-
bourne Cup. Feminist is expected to im-
prove upon that, and if she should win
the Caulfield Cup with 8.6 her favorit-
ism for the Melbourne Cup with 8.5,
inclusive of 101 b. penalty, would be prac-
tically certain. At present her weight,
with 81b. penalty, is 8.3, but the
handicapper could raise her another
21b. When Silver Standard scored
his three seconds he had 7.4 in
the Metropolitan, 7.10 in the Caulfield
Cup and 7.8 in the Melbourne Cup. The
chances are though that if he had won
the Metropolitan the resultant penalty
would have prevented him from figuring
so prominently in the Cups. In the last
two Cups mares in Sarcherie ran third
with 8.9, and Ortelle’s Star with 7.11. The
latter was four years old, and Sarcherie
—second in 1934 with 7.2, and in 1935
with 7.13 —seven.
* * * *
R. S. Sievier died in England last week.
He had a remarkable career, which in-
cluded bookmaking in Australia. After
his return to England he achieved promi-
nence in various ways, the principal one
being as the owner of Sceptre, for whom
he gave 10,000 guineas as a yearling. She
won many races for him, but gave him
a tremendous shock when she was un-
placed in the Derby, for which she was
reckoned a certainty. His journalistic
ventures included the ownership of a
racing paper, the “Winning Post,” state-
ments in which led to a libel action
against him by the Sydney owner, R.
Wootton, who was then training in Eng-
land.
* * * *
In stakes Pantheon headed the win-
ning sires at the A.J.C. meeting. He had
one winner, Feminist, and she contri-
buted £3BOO to his total of £4470. The
Buzzard led in number of wins, his total
being five. We often read about alleged
undesirable stallions Australia receives
from England, but The Buzzard is one
that is doing a lot for this country’s
bloodstock. Madagascar and Harinero,
both sons of Blandford, had a winner
each.
* * * *
Bramol’s form at the A.J.C. meeting
was good. He easily won the Kensing-
ton Handicap at seven furlongs, and was
generally accounted a trifle unlucky not
to have scored in the Members’ Handi-
cap, one mile, in which he was conced-
ing Red Thespian 101 b. It said a lot for
Bramol when Red Thespian subsequently
ran second in the Chester Handicap with
9.7 (minimum 7.7). Red Thespian, by
the way, must thrive on hard work. He
is seven years old, ran in 54 races in the
past two seasons, and never showed much
better form than during the current one.
He is as tough as any admirer of old-
time horses could wish.
* * * *
It is generally accepted that, untiTafter
the war, there will be no Parliamentary
move in connection with the conversion
of Sydney proprietary racing clubs to
non-proprietary. Not even then, perhaps,
as settling the war bill is likely to give all
Australian Parliaments a lot to think
about for a long time. Kensington, Ascot
and those provincial clubs which might
have been closed down are now safe, but
it is to be hoped plans for improvements
at some of the tracks will not be dropped.
They are necessary. Furthermore, it
seems as if the mid-week clubs may re-
tain their occasional Saturdays. It would
be a pity if such good tracks as Rose-
bery and Victor'a Park were to lo c e them.
$ % * *i
Judgment enters into yearling-buying
in Australia, but luck plays a greater
part. It is the same everywhere, and in
a recent issue of the American paper
the “Blood-Horse” a writer delivered
himself as follows:
This uncertainty this inextricable
scramble of luck and judgment, chance
and skill —is the great fascination of racing,
and it is nowhere more dramatically staged
than at Saratoga, where the pick of
America’s yearlings are brought for the
pick of America’s sportsmen to try their
—shall we say?—skill. (Let us leave to
everyone the privilege of calling it good
judgment if he is right, and chance if he
is wrong.) There one man may buy a
permanent maiden for upwards of £12,000,
and another may get a champion for £3OO,
or indeed a buyer may pay the price of a
good one and actually get a good one.
* * * *
In the way of time, the Victoria
Derby, like many other distance races at
Flemington, has shown considerable im-
provement over the last 35 years. The
best up to 1908 was Alawa’s 2.351, Bera-
goon reduced this by a quarter-second in
1913, and in 1925 Manfred did 2.311,
which put all previous efforts in the
shade. Since then Phar Lap, Hall Mark
and Feldspar have done 2.311, which has
yet to be improved upon. Last year Nuf-
field’s 2.341 was slightly on the slow
side, by comparison with Hua’s 2.32 f the
previous season.
* * * *
Although the death of that good horse
Windsor Lad was expected in England
some time ago, owing to a disease in the
head, for which he underwent an opera-
tion, he was still alive at the end of
August, and was being sent from a Lon-
don veterinary hospital to the country
for a spell. A decision as to his future
was to be made next month. At one
period he was in such a bad way that his
destruction was contemplated, but the
companies with which he was heavily
• insured were not in agreement with that
idea. Now there seems hope for him.
* * * *
For the current season the principal
winning horses in England up to August
20 were three-year-olds —namely: Blue
Peter, four races, £31,964; Galatea 11.,
three races, £16,131 ; and Heliopolis,
four races, £9670. Stardust, with three
races and £7582, headed the two-year-
olds, and Flyon’s £7700 for the Ascot
Gold Cup gave him first place among the
four-year-olds.
* * * *
In Australia some advertising tipsters
ran into a lot of money, but the most
successful were very small fry by com-
parison with Moses L. Annenberg, who
is stated to control most of America’s
racing papers and racing news services,
supplying betting selections and general
information to bookmakers and others
all over the country. For the five years
1932-36, Annenberg paid taxes on a net
income of £A296,000. It is claimed by
the Government that his income during
that period was approximately
£A1,559,000 (6,236,000 dollars).
The “Blood-Horse” says the Govern-
ment’s estimate was presented to an
Illinois grand jury, which, during nine
weeks of investigation, heard 227 wit-
nesses and took 11,747 pages of testi-
mony. The jury returned to the Federal
Judge an indictment of ten counts against
Annenberg, some of these including his
son and others for aiding and abetting
the alleged evasion. The Government
indictment seeks payment of taxes total-
ling approximately £A814,700, plus
£A572,300 in penalties and interest. It
is the largest criminal evasion tax suit
ever filed by the American Government.
* * * *
Maoriland-bred Tohunga, winner of
the Durban (S.A.) Gold Cup of £2500,
is by Posterity from Impetuous, and,
therefore, full-brother to Elanage, who
is expected to do well in Melbourne
this spring. Tohunga, now a four-year-
old, cost guineas as a yearling.
When Sir J. B. Robinson retired from
racing in South Africa last year, he made
presents of his horses to his trainers.
Whiteford, who was an ex-jockey,
received Tohunga. Some of the others
have won, but Tohunga’s Durban suc-
cess proved him the best of those dis-
tributed by his ex-owner.
* * * 9
American clubs put on some rich races
’for two- and three-year-olds, but there is
nothing cheap in competing for them.
The American Derby is to be revived at
Washington Park (Chicago) next year, the
added money being £AIO,OOO. Entries
close this month, the first payment being
£6 ss. In February there is a further
payment of £l2 10s., and in May a third
of £25, while it will cost an additional
£lB5 to start. Supplementary entries can
be made up to May 1 on payment of
1500 dollars (£A375). An owner would
need to have something particularly good
to come in that late. The paper from
which I take the figures does not
say whether the various payments will
be added to the stake, but that is the
custom with most big races in America.
& .t. §
The Bahram-Trustful colt for whom
J V. Rank gave 13,000 guineas as
a yearling in England last season made
a lowly entry into the winning list at
Salisbury at the end of August. It was
his second start, and in the Cranbourne
Plate for two-year-old maidens he was
an 11-to-10 favorite in a field of 27. He
won easily, but, as first money was only
£132, he did not do much towards wiping
off the high price paid for him. He is
said to be a fine-looking colt, though the
fact of having four white legs is held
against him by some of the critics.
* * * *
In some parts of India there are legis-
lators so strongly opposed to horseracing
that in the Madras Legislative Assembly
a few weeks ago a member asked per-
mission for the introduction of a bill to
prohibit the publication of news relating
to it. This was negatived by 124 votes
to 24. The Minister for Law was among
those who opposed the suggested bill,
and held that newspapers could not be
prevented from publishing racing news.
In his speech he said that people like
himself required news about the Derby
and other races. The Government, how-
ever, proposed to introduce legislation to
prevent secret betting on races.
* * * *
Yearlings were plentiful this year at
the sales in Dublin. Of the 713 cata-
logued, 639 were offered, and 463 sold


msM sdJill
Vday more than aver for any man of self-respect the daily shave
s an important matter. You can be sure too that tenses the
nethod that gives him the closest, smoothest, shave possible You
ronY find him experimenting with cheap blades-he knows tha *
alse economy. He uses Gillette, and he wdl go on using Gillette,
lecause he finds it the finest (and the most economical) shaving
system that money can buy.
No. 45 set contains the new Gillette
one-piece razor ( Popular Model)
no loose parts, no separate pieces
to assemble. Just twist the handle
and the blade is ready for cleaning
or replacement; twist again and the
razor is ready for use. Complete in
blue moulded case with three Blue
Gillette Blades Price 8/6.
GILLETTE SETS 1/9 TO 45/-
• BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
5 FOR 1/6 • STAINLESS
GILLETTE BLADES 5 FOR 2/-
no
Gut,
?lte
■ i
E
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
INVINCIBLE
since
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
Five Years’
ImDroved 1939 Models: 3 to 160 Horsepower. 1, 2, 4.
18 Improved sizes . all 4-cycle types Prompt
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock, hi
Onarantee A.11 Spares AvailaulG.
Guarantee a lu8trated catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record for
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they are, size for
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world's market to-day. a
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, III., U.S.A.
Established, in 1906 ,
at an average of slightly less than 124
guineas each. Buyers from England were
numerous, and H. Hartigan gave the
highest price of the sales for a colt by
Coup de Lyon out of Rose of Jericho, by
Spion Kop. The youngster realised 1750
guineas.
* * * *
Prior to running for the Hyperion
Stakes, of £1240, 1 mile 5 furlongs 40
yards, at Hurst Park in August, Lord
Derby’s Heliopolis was given a chance
of defeating Blue Peter and Pharis 11. in
the St. Leger. Backers laid 11 to 8 on
him for the Hurst Park race, and to their
surprise he only managed to get fourth
in a field of eight. Excuses were made
for him on the score of the slow pace,
but, if nearly as good as previously sup-
posed, he should have shown to greater
advantage over a long distance, with
runners so few. At York a few days later
Lord Derby unintentionally did backers
another bad turn. His filly Night Shift
(Trimdon-Selene) was so little fancied
for the Yorkshire Oaks, of £l5OO, 1|
miles, that, with only five opponents, she
went out at 20 to 1. She scored by a
neck from Scenery, another little-fancied
competitor, while Flyalley (5 to 4 on,
favorite) was fourth. The foregoing
results show that in England, as well as
Australia, leading owners and trainers
can often be astray in weighing up
the chances of their runners.
At the time the English St. Leger was
called off, Blue Peter was favorite at
11 to 8, succeeded by Pharis 11. at 9 to 4.
Nearest them were Heliopolis and Atout
Maitre at 10 to 1 each. If the race had
taken place there would have been a great
crowd of French visitors. Trips from
France to England were being organised
on the same lines as those which take
so many Englishmen to Paris to see the
Grand Prix.
* * * *
Up to the end of August English fol-
lowers of racing were doubtful whether
a really good two-year-old had been seen
out in that country this season. Stardust
seemed likely to stay better than the un-
named Rose of England colt, and may
give the Aga Khan the winter favorite for
the Derby. That race, as in previous
war-time, may have to be run at New-
market. Development is always possible
in two-year-olds, and, touching on that,
a contributor to the London “Sporting
Life” wrote as follows:
It should be remembered that at the
corresponding period 12 months ago, the
future Derby winner had not been in
public, and that in both of his deferred
appearances he Was on the losing side.
And Bois Roussel and Pharis 11. did not
see a racecourse until they were three years
of age.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
Royal Melbourne Club’s action in
cutting down the field for the Australian
championships was subjected to a tot of
criticism. The club gave the excuse that
a field of 180-odd entries was too large
to handle successfully.
While the club was quite within its
rights in rejecting some of the entries,
the root of the trouble really lay with
the Australian Golf Union. For years
now the union has taken little interest in
the actual running of the national meet-
ing, control having been passed on to
the committee of the club conducting the
event. The union is, naturally, not averse
to seeing large fields enter each year, for
the income from entry fees and the
amount of gate-money banked lately have
been very satisfactory. With the country so
golf-minded these days, and with so
many good players wishing to compete
in major championships, the time has
come for a revision of the conditions
under which Australian championships
are run.
Of all the overseas schemes for con-
ducting similiar events, the United States
Golf Association’s method appears to be
the best. Based on sectional qualifying
rounds, it is a sound way of reducing a
large field to a more desirable size.
District or State qualifying competitions
are held, with the leading players auto-
matically qualifying for the champion-
ship proper. In our own case each State
could be allotted a certain number of
places in a field of 120, which should be
about the maximum number to play off.
According to golfing strength, the
stronger States, such as New South
Wales and Victoria, could have the
greater number of places to be filled in.
A month or so prior to the champion-
ship each State would hold a 36-hole
stroke competition to give the entrants for
the open championship their chances to
find a place in the first 30, who would
qualify for the 72-hole test. This method
eliminates players now eligible to play on
their handicaps, although their chances of
success are very remote. A player fail-
ing to qualify in his State could not be
given much hope of winning the open.
In recent years most of the entrants
in Australian championship meetings are
amateurs living in the State in which
the meeting is held. Treating the event
as a golfing holiday, their numbers add
to the field so greatly that their presence
makes smooth control nearly impossible
for the club’s officials. National
championships should be treated as such,
and a field of quality and not quantity
should be sought after. The reduced
field of about 130 at Royal Melbourne
was’a nice number. No waiting on tees
or second shots was noticeable, and the
players voted it the best-conducted meet-
ing for several years.
Several officials suggested that the
three major events —the open, amateur
and professional championships —be split
into three individual meetings, to be held
at separate times of the year. This
suggestion is by no means yet feasible.
Inter-State entries for the championships
each year are not so strong as they might
be, and were the players asked to make
two trips a year instead of one the repre-
sentation would be weakened even more.
I am strongly in favor of the United
States idea of not asking the previous
year’s winner to qualify in all major
championships where qualifying is
necessary.
In studying the conditions that govern
many of our leading tournaments, one is
struck with the number of old-fashioned
rules under which play is conducted. Low
prize-money for professionals, and, when
an amateur is successful, substantially
reducing even these small professional
prizes, is another condition which should
be altered. Whether an amateur wins
or not, the professional should not nav
his reward cut down in any way. Diinng
the last two years, when I have, i -
tunately, had a most successful run, tne
professionals have lost much prize-money
by out-of-date rules. The whole s Y^ te
that controls Australian golf would be
greatly improved by an infusion
more progressive ideas.
With a magnificent last round of 67,
giving him an aggregate of 2|°> Nor ™
Von Nida won the N.S.W. close
championship at Concord He naa
entered upon that last round three strokes
behind Ferrier, who, falling away to a
74, finished second with 284. The bol
gers tied for third with 290.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: When George decided
to take up golf he set out one afternoon
to do his first round of our bush course
minus a caddie but leading a horse on
which was packed his bag of sticks, to-
gether with a tea billy and packet ot eat-
ables. George dislikes going afield with-
out taking materials for mid-afternoon
tea with him, and he couldn t see why
he should make any exceptions for the
royal and ancient game. He arrived
home at twilight, his horse loaded with
rabbits. When asked what he went round
in, George shook his head. “Just couldn t
say,” he replied. “I lost count after the
first coupla centuries. But you see this
jigger here”—and he pointed to a fur-spat-
tered driver —“one of the handiest flamin
things ever made. In them shaller burrers
up near the ninth hole you can yank
rabbits out with it like billy-o. It Id
have taken up golf ten years ago there
wouldn’t have been a damn rab, on this
joint to-day.” _________
Miscellaneous
Buckley and Parsons won the six-day
bike race at Sydney Sports Arena, Rogers
and Bloomfield finishing second, a lap to
the bad. All four are N.S.W. riders, and
both combinations exceeded 2036 miles.
Greig and Latta were third, a lap behind
the Rogers-Bloomfield pair. Spills were
numerous, and at times the place looked
like a casualty-clearing station.
* * * *
Though the N.S.W. police banned the
Goulburn-Sydney bikerace, Melbourne-
Warrnambool was run on Saturday.
South Australians Toseland, Moritz and
Thurgood, all off scratch, were first,
second and third—a sterling performance.
Toseland’s time for the 165 miles was
Bhr. 18min. 16sec., a record for the his-
toric race, and rather wonderful.
♦ * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Japan might as well
have gone ahead with preparations for
the 1940 Olympic Games: she abandoned
them because of the China war, but
Nippon itself must be about as peaceful
a spot now as anywhere on earth, except
for President Roosevelt’s great nootral
Republic. The cables have suggested that
Finland still hopes to hold them, but I
should say they’re as certain to be aban-
doned as were the 1916 Games allocated
to Berlin. If the Finns do hold them I
hope they repeat the Olympic torch
stunt: the tank traps and barbwire en-
tanglements of the frontiers should make
an interesting test for any athlete trying
to trot about Europe with a torch these
days.
* * * *
The N.S.W. schoolboys’ athletic
championships at Sydney Sports Ground
were chiefly interesting as a pipe-opener
to next Saturday’s G.P.S. events. The
G.P.S. boys had the “under 20” titles
practically to themselves. Ryan, the St.
Joseph’s footballer, took both the shorts,
the hundred in 10.1 seconds, and the
furlong in 23.8 seconds. Kaad, of
Sydney High, did a record broad-jump
(21ft. Ilf in.). The quarter went to
King’s, the half to St. Joseph’s and the
mile to Scots. R. G. Sheaffe, of Can-
berra, who putt the 121 b. shot 42ft. lfin.,
was the only outsider to collect. Apart
from Kaad’s, there were five other new
records in the other divisions. Receipts
for the meeting showed a £5 deficit.


ķ
ĸ
AT THE
me
THE WORLD-FAMOUS MILLS BROS.,
4 Boys and a Guitar.
New Oversea Stars.
NICK LiUCAS,
The Singing Troubador.
SCOTT SANDERS, Famous Comedian,
and New Stars,
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
Hitler or somebody must have de-
livered one under the belt to Sydney
talkie houses. Last week they were
going in for revivals in a way suggest-
ing a shortage of supply. The Lyceum
shook the moths out of “The Drum,”
and gave that splash of Indian color an
airing along with “The Gay Desperado.”
The Victory, till recently the standing
home of Shaw’s “Pygmalion,” turned to
“The Hardys Ride High,” notwithstand-
ing the new doings of the Hardy family
at the St. James; and the Savoy,
putting on its latest French product,
“Maternity,” dug up to support it the
English comedy “Storm in a Teacup.”
* * * *
“Hotel for Women”
New shows included the Embassy’s
“Hotel for Women” —a masterpiece of
the art of writing titles, and, as presented
in the ad. columns, of ad. writing, too.
There’s a lot of femininity of “The
Women” variety in it—-purring and
scratching with smiling sweetness. But
every one of these mostly young persons
has a heart of gold: the most blatant
gold-digger’s really a decent sort, and
shows it by helping a newcomer from
Syracuse to get a start; even the one who
goes in for a bit of shooting when that
newcomer looks like pinching her late
rich and elderly universal provider has
justification on her side.
The hotel life forms a lightly divert-
ing background to the well-worn story
of the country lass who comes to
the big city in pursuit of her former
fiance, who earlier left the country
address to try to do something as an
architect. Alas, absence has made his
heart grow blonder, and he’s as good as
forgotten the little brunette from the
backblocks. How she brings him round
to the final clinch includes her immediate
rise to international fame as a model for
a brand of gaspers and her instantaneous
attracting of rich males, including
former boy-friend’s boss, Jealousy doing
the dirty work for Cupid over a course
of dinners in posh restaurants, cocktail
parties and car rides. The hotel bedroom
dialogues, worked in for filling, are smart
and catty.
* * * #
Embassy supports include an extra-
ordinary war item. A German-made
film, apparently sent out by Germany for
propaganda purposes, it’s shown with
an English running commentary which
puts all the emphasis on those aspects of
the film which the German makers would
no doubt prefer not to be mentioned at
all. As presented, the only German pur-
pose that could have been served in issu-
ing it would be to emphasise the might
and ruthlessness of German arms. It
deals with the attack on the small coastal
fort where a couple of hundred Poles
held out for a week against concentrated
German attack, including an all-in on-
slaught by bombing ’planes and warship.
The ’planes are shown going over and
dropping their bombs, but the most strik-
ing part is the sustained heavy bombard-
ment by a large warship, heaving into the
fort at point-blank range with apparently
every gun aboard. This is given with
authentic sound effects —the roaring of
the guns and whining of the shells. If
anyone wants to know what it feels like
to be under a bombardment this will pro-
vide the sensation about as near as it can
be had short of the actual experience.
The commentator, of course, emphasises
the ruthlessness of the Germans and
the heroism of the handful of
defenders.
* * * *
“Juarez”
Paul Muni has been shorn of the beard
that usually decorates his features, but the
mat sprouts as a fine growth of blonde
fungus on the phiz of Brian Aherne as
the Mexican emperor Maximilian in
this Sydney Regent item. Aherne uses his
opportunities for a pretty fine perform-
ance as the Austrian archduke who,
wider pressure from Napoleon III., ac-
cepted the throne of Mexico when that
country was enjoying one of its choicest
revolutions.
According to the film, the Mexicans
were solidly behind an Indian leader,
Juarez, but were duped into voting for a
European monarch to rule them and kept
to their word by the French army. But
the main object of the film appears to be
to unload a string of political philosophy
based on the dogma that the Amurrican
system of government is the only one
worth thinking about. It pitches into
every political system that isn’t Uncle
Sam’s, but defeats its own end in pre-
senting a not-over-pretty picture of Uncle
hopping up on his perch and slangwhang-
ing everyone who doesn’t think as he
does.
There’s plenty of action —fighting and
firing squads and minor revolutions and
the like —and here and there a stretch of
good acting. Aherne has the best role
as the emperor. Muni merely has to es-
tablish himself as a sombre and quick-
witted Indian, and, though he maintains
Paul Muni ( Juarez ) and Brian
A heme ( Maximilian ) in a very
touching scene in “Juarez,” at
Sydney Regent.
the characterisation perfectly, it would
have been more interesting had he been
given the opportunity to show the de-
velopment of the character of Juarez, in-
stead of being confined mainly to letting
off platitudinous political lectures. Bette
Davis as the wife of Maximilian has the
weakest part in which this showman has
seen her, and, probably because of that,
overacts it most of the way.
* * * *
“Maternity”
To be able to enjoy the end of
“Maternity” at Sydney Savoy you have
to be able to swallow (1) a whale of a
coincidence, (2) sentiment piled on with
a shovel in a scene that combines mother-
luv and a deathbed. It seems a forced,
overstated ending to a film that’s very
nearly as pleasant a pastoral as “The
Grand Illusion.”
The story is the classic betrayal of
peasant girl by handsome traveller, and
her subsequent tribulations. She leaves
the farm, works as a washerwoman in
Paris, becomes servant to a wealthy
childless couple ; they want to adopt her
child, so she gives him up and goes away
and has more tribulations.
This part of it —and it’s the bulk of
the film —is simple and powerful. There
are beautiful shots of the old farm build-
ings, the fields, the lake and the moun-
tains. The girl and her wealthy employer
fighting bitterly for possession of the
child under a smokescreen of politeness
are vivid and moving. When the girl is
deciding to give way for the boy’s sake,
she is shown in a paroxysm of rage and
grief biting at a pair of shoes given him
by the other woman ; and the camera-
man, posing her in white against a black
background, holding the naked child in a
Madonna pose, makes quieter but no less
effective drama.
The boy becomes a famous engineer,
and somehow or another manages to run
over the mother in his car without know-
ing who she is. Deathbed to follow.
Hella Muller is the girl, a bit too much
of a dying swan. Fran9oise Rosay, the
haughty rich woman hungering for a
child, is excellent.
* * * *
“Maisie”
This lightly entertaining support at
Sydney St. James is the best of an f.a.q.
bill at that address. It deals pleasantly
with a ranch-manager, his boss and boss’s
wife and fiery particle of blonde who
descends upon them in all her fury, but
eventually sorts out all their troubles for
them. Robert Young and Ann Sothern
as manager and blonde handle the piece
easily and lightly. The featured item is
one of the Hardy family series, dealing
heavily with the amorous adventures of
Mickey Rooney as the youngest offspring
of the family. Bearable for those addicted
to such fare..
Stage and Concerts.
Most of the talent at Melbourne Tivoli
is concentrated on an unmusical musical
farce or something entitled “Business as
Usual,” whose author prefers to be
anonymous, possibly for fear of attract-
ing the attention of decontamination
squads of local wowsers. There is no
call for him to be alarmed on that score,
however, “Business as Usual” being the
usual business of the Tivoli.
It concerns the endeavors of comedian
George Wallace to gain a private audi-
ence with the engaging Gracie Emmerson,
said endeavors being constantly frus-
trated by her fiance, Eric Bush, her
father, Maurie Barling, three energetic
musicians who perform on the marimba,
Ruby Ring, a truly remarkable contor-
tionist, and frequent eruptions of that
army of semaphore signallers the Tiv.
ballet, dressed in anticipation of an ex-
ceptionally hot summer.
* * * *
War or no war, the Comedy Harmon-
ists sang to a packed Sydney Town Hall
on Friday. A programme selected largely
from modern American composers, plus
a sprinkling of folk songs, provided a
lively spread of the light fare in which
these artists specialise.
The particular talent of the Harmon-
ists is their ability to give new faces to
old favorites, including that lufly leetle
Australian volksong “Valtzing Mateelda.”
Others handled with some levity but not
abused were “Annie Laurie,” “Blue
Danube” and Dvorak’s “Humoresque.”
More modern froth included “Whistle
While You Work” and “The Dwarfs’
Song” from the Disney film, “Ti-Pi-Tin”
and a comic enactment of “Oh! Ma-
Ma.”
The excellent troupe isn’t merely as
good as ever it was—-it’s improving. The
crowd demanded some half-dozen en-
cores, and got ’em.
* * * *
Though Lord Lurgan has a beautiful
voice and uses it with accomplished art,
he failed to fill the Assembly Hall for
even the single concert he gave in Mel-
bourne: a noble lord isn’t expected to
be able to do anything, and when it
turns out he can he violates tradition.
His panel of English songs was uniformly
undramatic but full of delicate color and
variety, and some of the lyrics were
lovely, the Shakspearean numbers
especially so. He sang them with the
artistry to be expected of a protege of
Melba, whose proposed memorial is to
benefit from the takings.
* * * *
“Sleep to Wake,” Adelaide Repertory’s
most important show for the year, is
Cathrine Brownbill’s play on Colonel
Light and the founding of Adelaide (Dec.,
1836), which ran second to Max Alford’s
very similar drama in the competition at
S.A.’s centenary.
Cut for an acting version of reasonable
length, some of the lighter parts had to be
sacrificed, and it stands mainly as a
tragedy of divided control; of a soldier
surveyor having full power to settle the
capital site, and insisting on putting Adel-
aide just where it is, instead of where an
autocratic Governor —Admiral Hind-*
marsh, with quarter-deck manners-
wanted it to be.
With Stephen Church as Light, apd
Alex. Foster as Hindmarsh, acting was
of high standard. The author has even
managed a minor feminine interest, with
a young girl (Bettie Dickson, a charm-
ing newcomer) who regarded the Colonel
as a sort of big brother.
The title is daringly dragged in from
Browning’s famous swan-song ; Light is
supposed to have seen it in manuscript
about half a century before it was pub-
lished !
* * * *
Least interesting of all the Sargent
concerts in Australia was that at Sydney
Town Hall on Saturday night. Rossini’s
“Semiramide” overture —theatrical rather
than symphonic fare —was played with
an obvious effort to give the medley of
jigs and chansons more significance than
it possesses. Followed that heavy,
gloomy work, Glazounov’s F Minor
Pianoforte Concerto. Soloist Louise
Gargurevich did her dogged best with
it, but the clouds of smoke never burst
into fire. Elgar’s First Symphony,
probably the most tedious and undis-
tinguished work in the whole field of
symphonic literature, brought the pro-
ceedings to a close.
Artbursts,
If some of the ladies exhibiting at the
Melbourne Society of Women Painters’
show at the Athenaeum serve up dinners
as they serve up Nature, their husbands
will rush to enlist.
Polly Hurry has two admirable por-
traits, especially “Miss Katherine Green,”
which has a glow about it; but most of
the exhibitors are so concerned with flat-
tering their sitters that all they succeed
in doing is flattening them. A. M. Plante
is exempted from this criticism —there is
a quality of dyspeptic fierceness about
her “Head of a Man.” She is something
of. a modernist, and so is Sybil Craig,
whose fruits in No. 6 certainly look fresh.
Aileen Dent’s uncatalogued seascape gives
the character of its various objects excel-
lently.
The sculpture lacks adventurousness
and virility. Ola Cohn repeats her
Epsteinish formula in “Spirit of the Bush”
and a wooden “Angel”; in her “Adam
and Eve” she goes in for direct represen-
tation —a much more interesting effort.
In the modernist section of Vic. Artists’
Society’s spring show, George Bell sits,
metaphorically speaking,, surrounded by
his disciples. Both disciples and master
seem to be trying to recapture the inno-
cent eye of childhood, but they can no
more do it than a white Australian can
think like a primitive abo., and each
man’s work looks surprisingly like the
others’. Three landscapes by John
Heath give back an admirable impres-
sion of Nature, and Jack Murphy’s
“Brickworks” has a rough vigor about it.
Dora Searle gives some of the shimmer-
ing quality of a hot day in “Croydon in
Summer.” Ailsa Hadden’s “The Dictator”
looks like Bernard Heinze, but whether
the likeness is an accident or the title a
sly poke at the Ormond Professor of
Music isn’t stated. The Old Guard of
the society continue to shout defiance at
both contemporary art and Nature from
their dugouts.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
"L
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Spring wood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE BANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you tAat
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. nn.xr’sa
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist for DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used suc-
cessfully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will
help flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes.
So be sure you get DO AN S BACKACHE
kidney pills.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The skies sulked on Ladies’ Day, so
Fashion had that dip-in-the-jumble-bag
look. Everything had an airing, even
the fur coat. Fur capes were rampant.
Hats had tufts of veiling, more like de-
pressed trails of seaweed than ever after
being watered by the two or three
showers that spoiled the afternoon from
the point of dress display. Wimples and
snoods failed as joymakers. There were
girls who tied lengths of oiled silk hood-
wise over their ha„ts. There was a girl
who ran about with a pencil between her
teeth like the faithful retriever with a
stick. There was the girl who stood at
~the top of the official stand stairs and
said clearly: “What terrible legs Betty
Whosthis has!” There was Mrs. Wal-
lace Anderson, all in off-white linen, the
swing skirt of which had a wide band of
linen lace above its hem. Later in the
afternoon the sun came out to greet her.
Mrs. Lionel Dare’s small white toque
was made of small white flowers —a
pretty sight. Mrs. Douglas Levy’s long
gloves were madder red, and her high
black hat was snooded to her head.
Mrs. Ernest Watt’s pale-blue suit and
white hat were signposts on the road to
summer. The Knox lady was there, and
Mrs. Peter Poole, her daughter. Barbara
Knox was a sort of harmonious ensemble
in grey tailorings and a large black hat.
Attention was drawn to Robin Eakin’s
black Cossack hat banded in white, and
every woman liked the gold zippers that
ran from shoulder to cuff of Mrs.
Barney Utz’s bronze frock. Black sheer
and a red flower in the hat were Mrs.
Herbert Douglass’s contribution. A
black velvet uptilted hat and silver fox
were things noted as Mrs. Doll Clayton
passed. Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, Mrs.
Vincent Fairfax, the Thomas Gordon
lady and Faith Macarthur Onslow were
seen. Mrs. Alan McGregor’s white hat
was soft with white plumes. Young June
Chamberlain picked horses with a veteran
air, Mrs. George Duncan carried one of
the smartest umbrellas, and Mrs. Mollie
Mackay was all smiles over the win of
her filly Trueness.
For a summer-style summary, the holi-
day meeting was the one to be conned.
Here were the hat, bag, shoes and gloves
to match according to the fashion
prophets. Here were the initialled bag,
the heelless sandal, than which no more
helpless style can be imagined. Here
were all the new bright shades of blue.
Mrs. James Fairbairn, of Melbourne
(he’s the Civil Aviation Minister), sported
a redingote in one of these tones over
her flowered crepes. The swing skirt
proved itself definitely “in.” The Gover-
nor and Lady Wakehurst followed the
races in holiday mood, deep blue the
dominant tones of Lady Wakehurst’s
frocking, while the Hon. Henrietta Loder
wore a suit in a lighter shade. Among
the smart were Mrs. Buchanan, of Poka-
taroo, and Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar in
a suit of black taffeta.
There were Dim Sims and Chau Ki
See Min at their best in the Pekin Cafe
last Thursday. The lunch was to aid
China’s war orphans, and Archbishop
Mowll and his wife, who lived so long
in that ancient civilisation, were among
the 90 or more guests who gazed on the
bright mural painted by a Chinese artist
who had arrived from Melbourne only
the day before. Enormous pottery crocks,
girdled with a dragon design and lined
with a dull-green glaze, attracted the
gaze. Chopsticks, too, were fascinating
with their lettered greeting. The legend
on the front of the invitation read: “If
you have two loaves of bread, sell one
and buy a lily.” That is the inscription
on a wall of a mandarin’s garden,
Pekin.
China’s Consul-General Dr. Pao was
there and made a concise little speech in
reply to the one made by Archbishop
Mowll. Mrs. Pao served adeptly with
chopsticks to her surrounding neigh-
bors. Her mother, Mrs. Townend
McKee, helped in making the guests at
home. Mrs. O’Malley Wood entertained
a group of friends —pretty daughter Mrs.
Hall, from Dubbo, Mrs. Lorenz, with
her yellow torchon lace straw hat, and
Mrs. Vernon Coles, a symphony in
spring shades, among them. Mrs. Nor-
man McLeod, whose husband is Consul
for Latvia, mingled mauves and
chartreuse greens. The Julius, the
Butters, the Manning and Love ladies
were there; so were Mrs. J. L. Ruthven,
Miss Bailey and Mrs. Muscio. Lucille
Jansen, organiser Miss King and the
Moore Cosgraves were others. Slim
daughters of China in the long, straight-
fitting frocks of their country were clever
though amateur waitresses. The peacock
blues, golds and deep lilac they wore
added to the colorful scene.
Sydney women are eagerly showing
their willingness to be of help in national
emergency. Thousands are already en-
rolled on the Women’s Voluntary
National Register, and of this organisa-
tion Ruby Board (this is a Dayne picture
of her) is president. She is also chair-
man of the Women’s Voluntary
Services and of the National Council of
Women.
This Letter’s first censored mail arrived
from England last week. It was from
Jessica Lee, who was a keen war-worker
during 1914-18. -She tells of a fine group
of Australian ex-army nurses, radiolo-
gists, dispensers and trained V.A.Ds. who
are anxious to work in a woman’s unit of
national service. Mrs. Lee has been busy
for the last six months training cooks,
counter hands and bar attendants in the
Metropolitan Police Auxiliary Canteen
Service. Not a light job. The week before
war broke out she was doing 13-hour
shifts, with a break in the afternoon
when the bar was closed.
Mrs. Beatrice Macdonald (another
Sydney woman with a brain as bright
as a new pin) has put a scheme for using
overseas women now resident in England
before Dame Helen Gwynne-Vaughan,
of the War Office. Mrs. Lee did the
calling on Dame Helen, who said she
considered overseas women can be very
useful in any branch of service, and that
she would welcome such in her “Terri-
torial Army.” Dame Helen has a mili-
tary directness, is very clear 1 of skin and
bright of eye, and has hair of a becoming
iron-grey. She has a sense of fun, for
in conversation she remarked: “I was
considered too young for the last war,
and no doubt now there are some who
consider me too old for this one.” Dame
Beryl Oliver, commandant of the British
Red Cross, is another carrying a load of
responsibility. She knows her sex: “Pre-
serve me,” said she, “from women who
say they are good organisers but don’t
mind even washing dishes. Generally
such have only organised a village con-
cert, and made a mess of that.”
Giving a hand generally are Rosalie
Humphry, of Rose Bay (she’s stretcher-
bearing) ; one of the Peden girls (now
Mrs. Munro), an architect, designing air-
raid shelters ; Ruth Cortis-Jones, in the
W.A.A.F.; Mrs. Cortis-Jones (husband
is at Newington College), evacuating
children ; and son Beverley, helping at
a country hospital. Doris Hudson and
Rosemary Green are also helping in
evacuation duties.
The junior boys of St. Aloysius’ Col-
lege showed an ambitious spirit in tack-
ling the Gilsullivan “Yeomen of the
Guard” at the Con. But producer Perry
and conductor Bill Caspers were quite
sure of success. William Winzsit and
Roger Carne take the roles of Jack Point
and Elsie Maynard respectively ; and Pat
Donnelly plays Phoebe. Others in the
cast are R. Cody (Colonel Fairfax),
Desmond McCarthy (Shadbolt), Jack Hill
(Sergeant Meryll) and R. Hahn (Leonard).
On the opening night the Consul for
Poland (Mr. L. de Noskowski) launched
a public appeal for funds, and pro-
grammes were sold for the stricken
country.
When the Hon. Yvonne de Villiers
journeyed with her brother, Lord de Vil-
liers, from South Africa to Australia, she
was heading straight for romance. Last
week she became Mrs. Kenneth Hill by
blessing of St. Mark’s, Darling Point.
Bridegroom is Australian manager for
the celebrated English Coats cotton
firm. An ensemble in soft blue tonings,
a wide-brimmed Baku hat in off white
and a spray of orchids were worn by the
good-looking bride. Lord de Villiers, of
Wynberg House, Wynberg, South Africa,
gave his sister away. Lorraine Halse
Rogers, who also wore blue, was the
bridesmaid. The wedding, which was of the
unobtrusive kind, was a mid-morning one.
White flowers rose in regal profusion
from the centrepiece in the foyer of
the Trocadero. Here high standards
trailed white wistaria, and small
tables here and there were decked with
silver baskets brimming over with snowy
blooms. In the ballroom itself were cas-
cades of white wistaria, and a bandstand
turned a facade thickly woven with
lucent flowers to the gaze. Loveliest of
all, just inside the ballroom entrance
stood a small rose-tree, thick with bud
and open flower, on a plot of green
sward. The White Ball was in full swing.
Around nine o’clock so many Snow
Whites billowed or slinked into the room
that even Walt Disney would have turned
dizzy. The rule of the ball was white, or
black with white, for the ladies. About
ninety per cent, were in white.
Fishing for bottles, which came in with
the war, presumably as an entertain-
ment for the girls whose boys are in
camp, proved the sport of the evening.
“If you haven’t a boy have a bottle”
seems to be good advice, judging by the
shrieks of excitement that come from
those wielding rod and line. But, of
course, the sport isn’t exclusive to the
girls. Strong and expert males take a
hand. At two bob a time it’s good for
the cause. Liked the poster with its
cornerpiece of a bleary-eyed fish scuttling
off with a bottle under the fin. Regular
old soak he looked. Noreen Dangar
finally hooked a bottle of gin, and went
off to her table, her thick, white crepe
frock with its black eyelet embroidery
very pleasing. When simple pleasures
palled you could put. the tail on a bull,
practise your putting or have your for-
tune told.
One of the warmest smiles was flashed
by Mrs. Roy Buckland as she passed, all
white and silver and orchids. President of
the ball Mrs. A. V. Maxwell brought
white marocains and a large party. Among
her guests were the Charles Lloyd Jones
couple. Her frock had a skirt of flow-
ing black tulle. The top was made of
gold bands that shaped into the throat,
forming a short, straight Chinese collar.
Mrs. Lennox Bode had her black laces
banded in black velvet. Stiff with em-
broideries was Mrs. Cyril Ruwald’s all-
white shawl. June Chamberlain, in a
swirl of white tulle, was young romance
from the soft, fair curl on the top of her
head. Another nice girl, Betty Maxwell,
was a snowdrop in white satin and Arctic
fox.
The Industrial Blind Institute’s new
president Scott was there with daughter
Mrs. E. R. Raine. Heather Macleod was
proud of the touches of Irish crochet on
her frock. A silver sheen was on Mrs.
Henry Osborne’s bouffant laces. Pearl
and silver beads patterned Mrs. Wal
Anderson’s chiffons. Among the sweet
and complete was Mrs. Alan McGregor.
Ivory lace and satin mixed with a cun-
ning hand formed her frock. Mrs. Dick
Allen, Mrs. Lionel McFadyen, Mrs.
Colin Sinclair, Mrs. Dudley Hardy, Mrs.
Chick Bouvet and the Davidson lady
were others. Nea Arnott got a classic
effect with draped chiffon and a silver
girdle. Admirable was Mrs. Leonard
Darby’s tucked organza frock. It showed
the best points of an Alix model, from
the wide emerald-green shoulder-straps to
the spreading hem.
Shelves of the Bush Book Club were
replenished last week when the rooms
were open for the yearly collection.
Nearly eleven hundred books and a
mountain of magazines and illustrated
papers made secretary Beulah Bolton
content with her day. Both Lady Gowrie
and Lady Wakehurst were among the
generous donors of books that they had
enjoyed. The Hon. Henrietta Loder
accompainied her mother in the after-
noon call. The Hugh Denison lady, Miss
Bennie, Barbara Knox and Faith Mac-
arthur Onslow were on deck during the
day.
Admirers of Harry Dangar’s art were
so eager to buy at his show last week
that they couldn’t wait for manager Wal
Taylor to bring along the red seals.
They made red blobs on the frames with
lipstick. It’s a pleasant show, filled with
glimpses of country you’d like to see
when you gaze from your windows or
as you walk in meditative mood on
spring or autumn afternoon. Most in-
terested gazer was probably Mr. Niyogi,
a young Indian artist, who has just had a
show of his work at the Honolulu
Academy of Arts. Ke had started out
on a tour of the world, but since hos-
tilities have broken out he may make a
short stay here, and then return to his
native land. He studied his painting at
the Tagore school of art in Bengal.
The McKelvey lady, slim and trim
and in black from hat to shoe, was an
admirer. Mrs. Lambert Latham, Valerie
Purves, the sleeves of her frock. all
befurred, the artist’s wife, Jean Cheriton
and Mrs. Darling were a few of the
many who clapped Mrs. John D.
Moore’s opening speech. Mrs. Darling
was a buyer, too. All sales swell the
Mayor’s Patriotic Fund.
The group that calls itself “Friends
of France” turned up in great numbers
to the birthday party given to its 76-year-
old member and friend to everybody
Bernard King. The Carlton Hotel heard
the toasts and the applause which greeted
them. Some of the congratulators came
from Newcastle for the occasion.
The Lyceum Club pinned a posy into
the week-end with its flower show. The
clubrooms were fragrant with garden
and bush bloom, and for sixpence you
could walk with beauty for an afternoon.
Especially elegant were some of the
cacti flowers. One handsome creature
of a coral red had a tiny bloom that
looked like a'little daisy caught on its
lip. Here were the cool seriousness of
the flannel flower, and there the glowing
fires of red roses. The rhododendrons
were magnificent, and clever hands had
been busy setting out miniature gardens.
Mrs. Darsow had fashioned a brilliant
little Christmas tree.
The Amelie Salmon Scholarship Fund
and the Lord Mayor’s Patriotic and War
Fund will halve the profits of the Sancta
Sophia garden party. This will be held
at the college on Saturday, October 21,
and Dorothy McDonogh, the girl in this
photograph, who is a breezy and forceful
secretary, declares it is going to be great
fun. Certain that Rose Bay Convent
girls, present and past, even to the third
generation, will be there in numbers, as
the scholarship links the convent and
Sancta Sophia within the University.
There are to be a band, bridge,
tea and maybe a ballet, all for five shil-
lings. Dorothy is busy netting a catch
of celebrities, too. Dorothy was born in
Limerick, and as a small girl living in
London she learned all about air raids.
Later, when the family came to Sydney,
she became a pupil at the Sacred
Heart Convent, where her mother had
gone to school. Montgomery Dunn
photograph.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
St. George’s
Perth .. . 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Use., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Persona] and Missing Friends.
TO EILEEN WEST MITCHELL, Married
Woman, formerly of S»uth Yarra, in the
State of Victoria, but now of parts un-
known.
TAKE NOTICE that your Husband
CHARLES ALFRED MITCHELL has com-
menced divorce proceedings against you on the
ground of desertion during three years and
upwards. UNLESS you enter an appearance in
the office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court at Melbourne in the State of Victoria
on or before the 23rd day of October, 1939,
and file an answer in the said office on or
before the 6th day of November, 1939, the
suit may proceed in your absence.
K. CARGILL RANKIN, of 17 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BE 7 n f N HELENa'hERBERT Petitioner
T 0 «fRS E s a ond ri„
Windsor Road Paddington.
HFRRFRT N i? TICE that the said HELENA
a;, u has commenced a suit against you
in trus Honorable Court and is applying for
Lc d lu° Ut r° n °l rnarria 8c on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
hat you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Twentieth
day of December One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-mne and in the event of your not
doing so _ within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and
the suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 28th day of September, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
FRANCIS J. KEANE, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
STATE OF VICTORIA.
1939 No. 457.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction.
FLORENCE MARY JOHNSTONE Petitioner
And ERNEST JOHNSTONE Respondent.
TO ERNEST JOHNSTONE formerly of South
Melbourne in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown.
, TAKE NOTICE that your wife FLORENCE
MARY JOHNSTONE has commenced pro-
ceedings against you in the Supreme Court,
of the State of Victoria for a divorce on the
grounds of desertion Unless you enter an
appearance to the suit at the office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court Law Courts
William Street Melbourne by the 20th day of
October 1939 and cause an answer to be filed
at the abovenamed office by the 27th day of
October 1939 the suit will proceed in your
absence and you may be ordered to pay costs.
ROYSTON T. CAHIR, 440 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Proctor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1815 of 1939.
BETWEEN ETHEL VERA McHUGH (for-
merly McMahon) Petitioner
And WILLIAM McHUGH Respondent.
TO WILLIAM McHUGH late of Newtown.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ETHEL
VERA McHUGH has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-seventh day of December
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of October, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
N. J. BELL, PHILLIPS & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TO ALEXANDER COWAN YOUNG
PATERSON formerly of 99 Patty Street
Mentone now of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MURIEL
ANNIE PATERSON has instituted proceed-
ings against you for divorce on the ground of
desertion. Unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s office of the Supreme Court
at Melbourne on or before the 25th day of
October 1939 and file an answer on or before
the 6th day of November 1939 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.
SYLVIA ROTHSTADT, of 440 Little Collins
Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1883 of 1939.
IN RE WINIFRED EILEEN WELLS formerly
Waters) of No. 1 Flat La Court Alison
Road Randwick near Sydney in the State
of New South Wales wife of Arthur Nor-
man Wells whose present whereabouts are
unknown Jockey Petitioner
And the said ARTHUR NORMAN
WELLS Respondent
TO ARTHUR NORMAN WELLS whose
present whereabouts are unknown Jockey.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WINIFRED
EILEEN WELLS has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Ninth day
of November one thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the Petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of October, One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
VINCENT JOHN FLYNN, Solicitor for
the Petitioner, 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
A change from bridge on the right
and bridge on the left was last week’s
cabaret tea at the Palais in aid of the
Country People’s Holiday Camps at
Dromana. The “Under Your Hat”
people came down to dance and croon
and tell a string of stories censored and
suitable for sensitive ears. An elephant
appeared, and, after wiping his muddy
paws on the mat, entered the arena with
magician attached to go through his
routine of tricks in the detached way
elephants have. There was also a manne-
quin parade, but the time spaces between
the appearance of each garment were so
long that the audience almost consumed
the Iceland poppies with impatience.
A run on the lucky-dip exhausted sup-
plies by tea-time. Mrs. Lionel Spencer
was in charge, and is still dreaming of
the 700 brown-paper parcels she tied up
with her own hands. Those who dipped
at the right depth included Mrs. J. Phelan
(with Mrs. E. N. Armit, she ran the cigar-
ette stall), who carried off a couple of
ducks for the family dinner; Molly
Corben, who won black and gold coffee
cups; Emily Baird, who found herself
in possession of a handbag; and Mrs.
Keith Halley, who has the right to choose
something to dazzle the eye or gladden
the heart from a jewellery window.
Mrs. Alfred Fowler, passing by the silk-
stockings wheel, showed signs of marked
ability in salesmanship. The wheel had
for the moment languished, but Mrs.
Fowler, unloading boats at near-by tables,
soon had it revolving faster than ever at
the hands of Mrs. Marchant Penfold and
of Mrs. A. R. Bain, whose tiny black hat
accompanied a black skirt and white
cloque tunic. A flowerpot-plant-and-
seedling stall did well in the care of
Mrs. P. L. Coleman.
Much of the Spring Carnival has been
blown away on the ill winds of war,
but some features remain, including
“Hiawatha,” the Garden City, and the
Models Exhibition, which is to be held
in the Town Hall from November 11
to 18. For this fixture the Ship-model-
ling Society will be contributing about
50 ships which will thrill the hearts of
old sailors and of young lads who would
run away to sea to-morrow, submarines
or not.
There is no age limit for membership
among the Victorian Ship-modellers.
Boys and men from 15 to 70 belong
who are of the R.A.N., are engineers,
accountants, dentists, manufacturers,
cabinetmakers, housepainters, etc. Their
bond in common is that they love
ships. Their meetings, lectures, etc., are
held at the Model Dockyard in Swan-
ston-street, where Captain James is on
the bridge, and Colonel G. H. Mac-
Mullen is chairman of the board.
Members of the society are now fin-
ishing work on a model of the Edina,
which is to be shown at the Exhibition,
and will afterwards let down anchor in
the National Gallery. There will prob-
ably be several Golden Hinds and En-
deavours, and there’s to be the Bounty,
modelled by Walton Middleditch even
to its tiny ship’s bell. This Bounty is in
harbor at the Model Dockyard, but
without its bell, which is of such historic
value that it’s in a cache known only
to its owner. Mr. Middleditch made
the bell out of a piece of copper spike
given him by Lyster Jackson (well
known in Australian shipping, particu-
larly Mcllwraith’s). The spike was a
relic of the original Bounty and was
given to Mr. Jackson by Captain Hugo,
who brought it back from Pitcairn
Island 35 years ago.
Since the Fitzroy Gardens lost Diana
the Huntress, the god Apollo, several
plump Cupids and muscular gentlemen
who wrestled with snakes, and the rest
of their statuary, the Treasury Garden
have been undergoing changes as
preparations for Garden City. Arc
lamps have appeared at spaced intervals,
the gardens are gradually being fenced
otf, and there is a bamboo boundary
round the Japanese lake. By no means
a firm structure, it is still a deterrent to
those careless people who always seem to
fall into water when water is about.
Rehearsals after dark give a hint of
illuminated cascades and fountains and
glowworm lights among the bushes that
will turn the place into a mysterious
fairyland. Provided the weather doesn’t
turn dog on the whole project, Garden
City should be worth seeing from October
23 to November 18. Canvas protection
will cover areas twice the size of the
Town Hall. Among floral displays there
will be horticultural exhibits from all
over Australia.
“Hiawatha” in rehearsal is making the
rafters ring, for the cast numbers just
under 1000. The Exhibition Building,
which for some time has reverberated to
carpenters’ hammers, is taking on a new
interior appearance with additional
Hollywood Bowl seats and with prepara-
tions for the disappearance of organ-
loft and choir benches under the weight
of the Rocky Mountains. The season is
from October 21 to November 4. Profirs
over and above expenses will go to the
Red Cross and other war charities.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Meredith Buchanan, who recently became
engaged to Michael R. Buring, younger
son of Mr. A. Buring, of Hobart. Mere-
dith, who is the fourth daughter of the
superintendent of the E., S. and A. Bank
and of Mrs. Howard Buchanan, is fol-
lowing her sisters’ example in marrying
a Tasmanian ; Mrs. A. W. Knight’s home
is in Hobart and Mrs. Stuart Pixley’s is
among the lush-green pastures of Lym-
ington South, in the Huon district.
Michael and Meredith have known each
other since they rode scooters and kept
silkworms. Michael is a Staff Corps lieu-
tenant.
While the world’s at war there’s peace
on the artistic front. The cannons of
art are silent, the snipers of the paint-
brush have directed their attention else-
where. Knight Edward Cunningham,
while opening the Victorian Artists’
Society Exhibition, reminded his audi-
ence of these developments, also express-
ing the opinion that the cause of all
the trouble in the world is intolerance.
His personal preferences in art are
obviously inclined towards the conven-
tional, but he allows the innovator to
live and enjoy himself. According to
the Cunningham maxim the radical is
not a bad sort of fellow if he’s given
time. Like the early-morning rooster
he won’t always think that the sun rises
to hear him crow.
Among those present at the opening
were numerous artists and their better
halves (or husbands), including the Len
Annois couple, he tall enough to get un-
impeded views of everything over his
neighbors’ shoulders, she with a hand-
ful of monkey fur clamped upon her
little cocktail hat. Mrs. W. Sewell
toured the galleries with Mrs. Alan Ross.
The Freddy Gambles were there, also
Mrs. S. J. Buckland in the sort of coat
she could claim to have shot tiger by
tiger in some Indian jungle. Harry'
Fqrn worked himself into a state of per-
spiration carrying tanks of coffee from
kitchen to upstairs gallery.
Once again this year Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell spent a day writing to firms which
exhibited at the Show asking them for
left-over samples for her adopted family,
the 114 children at the Orthopaedic Hos-
pital at Frankston, the result being that
every young patient is receiving a parcel
bulging with oddments to eat, to drink
and just to look at. Each sample is a
pleasant surprise in itself and is greeted
with the same ecstatic smiles that are
attributes of the Christmas stocking.
The 20 older boys and girls who live
in the After-care Hostel went to the Show
and had a grand time. Though Mrs.
Mitchell is now very busy working for
the Red Cross entertainment which she is
organising, to be held at the Princess on
October 25, she is not letting down her
little “orthopaedics,” and is confident that
they will have as merry a Christmas as
usual and that the hospital will be able
to carry on successfully, notwithstanding
the necessities of war charities.
The brunette in Antoine’s photograph
is Rosemarie Kenny, elder daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. A. L. Kenny, a young
pianist of talent who gave a recital last
night (10th) in the Assembly Hall. The
war descended just as Rosemarie had
high hopes of her career, for Schnabel’s
interest had brought her into the public
eve. But her committee, which is well
endowed not only with influential names
but with the carry-on spirit, saw that
plans for the concert went ahead with
particular enthusiasm. Judging by the
booking last week there was every reason
to forecast a full house.
Rosemarie is a Bachelor of Music,
and her teacher is Rieke Parker. She’s
a past-pupil of Genazzano Convent, is
gifted with a literary mind, and, notwith-
standing her serious demeanor in this
studio portrait, has a piquant sense of
humor. She likes tennis and outdoor
games, having been trained in the rudi-
ments of speed and a straight eye during
her childhood, when two elder brothers
demanded football or cricket in the garden
after school. Younger sister Elizabeth
received the cheerful news last week that
she was successful in passing fourth-year
medicine at the University.
Mrs. W. R. Burston, who is transplant-
ing herself this week from Melbourne to
Forest Park, Upwey, was much fare-
welled in the process. One party was
given by Mrs. C. L. Kimpton under the
crystal stalactites of the ballroom in her
home in St. George’s-road. Accompany-
ing the cocktails were delectable morsels
(the cold ones placed around an imposing
Polar iceberg) which were achievements
of the hostess’s own culinary skill. Mrs.
Kimpton, who was a nurse before she
became the artistic cook she is to-day, is
at St. Vincent’s Hospital every morning
from nine till one, her confrere being
Mrs. John Grey. These two are brush-
ing up their nursing. They wear uniform
while on the job, and are interested par-
ticularly ip learning new practices in
splinting and giving injections. They
hope that if younger nurses are called up
for military service their refresher course
will stand them in good stead to carry on
in the others’ places.
Other farewells for Mrs. Burston in-
cluded good wishes from the St. Vincent’s
Past Nurses’ Association (founded by
Mrs. Burston) and a party at the Wind-
sor, where a number of women friends
partook of tea and of the presentation of
silver bowls. Among nurses past and
present at the party were Mrs. F. Gam-
betta, Mrs. Mick Healy, Mrs. Blackall,
Mrs. Tom King and Miss Considine. Mrs.
T. J. Ryan and Mrs. J. P. Casey sat on
each side of the guest of honor.
Mrs. Burston has been given a pet lamb
to amuse her at Forest Park. She’s also
taking with her her extraordinary cat,
alleged to be part possum. It has a
possum’s rear paws and tail, but is a cat
front- He prefers darkness to sun-
hght and his habits are purely nocturnal.
He s getting old and had some teeth out
last year, so his food these days has to
be soft and squashy.


¥;& aj
>*?%:** i- • **?
°ofz*s’ ;<t r ' i,; '' •
k 4 * ■ >:>
e G/'** /°*A.
*< »£>V
Co/ / Neu <■*-
T.JONES £ CO.
CHEMIST, 3ia George Street, Sydney.
PI4TI IPS
WAR ZONE MAP
Compiled by J. Mcßride.
A detailed map of the European Zone, with a special scale showing air-distances at a glance.
A map of Europe showing 1914 boundaries. A map of the world showing countries and
trade routes. A map of London District. A chart of air-distances between the principa
European towns. A population-area chart of chief European countries. A special
London and Australian TIME comparison for the whole 24 hours.
Size, 30in. x 36in. Printed in four colors. PRICE, 1/-, posted, 1/L
All Booksellers and Newsagents Throughout the Commonwealth, or direct
GEO. B. PHILIP & SON 451 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
There’s no “breakirig-im” period with the
Packard. From the first time you use it, you
will always be smoothly, closely shaved —with-
out soap, water, blades or brushes! The
Packard saves its initial cost many times over
a period of a year or two.
• INSTANTLY ADAPTABLE —operates from
6- or 12-volt car batteries or house-lighting
plants; also from 240-volt A.O. mains through
sneciallv approved step-down transformer.
• SAFE AS A TELEPHONE —Electrically
* PP SMOOTH, ROUND CUTTING HEAD gives
close shaves.
e 1,000,000 HAPPY USERS vote Packard the
best ' shave at any price.
• Price, £4/19/0, including step-down trans-
-1 former.
116-118 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telegrams; “Jonmar,” Sydney.
Telephone; 8W3109 (2 lines).
TH E SERVICE MAN
On the Western Front.
“If Austria didn’t exist it would have
to be invented,” the wise old saying ran.
Much the same principle has been applied
to the reporting of the campaign on the
Western Front. A public hungry for war
news has been fed with the best substi-
tute that fancy can paint and money buy.
There have been “tremendous artillery
duels,” fierce attacks and counter-attacks
and a persistent advance towards the Sieg-
fried Line by the French. Four days
after war was declared the Stunt Press
had “Saarbriicken (the principal town of
the Saar) completely evacuated,” and its
early occupation was foreshadowed.
Even then the Saar roads were “filled
with German military transports rushing
through to the front line,” and millions
of soldiers were on the point of joining
battle.
Presently it was given out that the
French were everywhere fighting on Ger-
man soil and had made substantial cap-
tures of territory. Given out in news-
papers fed by “famous American corre-
spondents,” but not in the official com-
muniques on either side. They were
all to the effect that nothing of parti-
cular importance had happened any-
where or any time.
At the end of a month of furious fan-
cies, the French published an official esti-
mate of the German losses. Were they
on the 1914 scale, frightful, immense?
No: “550 killed, 2500 wounded and 150
captured,” and “the French losses were
considerably less.” Say, 5000 or 5500
altogether. Our Fifth Division lost more
in one day—July 19, 1916 —in the first
A.I.F. hop-over in France.
For the month in question, no British
army losses are reported. In all proba-
bility the British army was not engaged.
Yet one group of newspapers had the
British army in action in the second
week.
Of the war in the air, also the subject
of a great deal of picturesque writing, the
official French account is that in 27 days
of September “the Germans lost more
than 30 ’planes and the French eight
fighters and several reconnaissance
machines.” A German story of Sep-
tember is that the French lost 45
machines and the British 27 “on the
Western Front.” No British statement
covering the month has appeared.
Accounts of British operations such as
the attacks on Kiel and on German war-
ships in Heligoland Bight suggest that
British airmen have been engaged to a
greater extent than the French, and the
fact that three R.A.F. men from Tara-
naki, a Maoriland province with a popu-
lation of about 80,000, were among the
early casualties, their relatives receiving
word in the space of a few days, indi-
cated that their losses had been greater.
It is clear, however, that there has been
surprisingly little fighting in the air, just
as there has been surprisingly little fight-
ing on land.
The position seems to be that each side
is waiting for the other to attack in force,
and this applies to both arms. Obviously
the enemy hopes to manoeuvre France
out of the war, and, with Russian assist-
ance in the propaganda department, is
making the most of the strong Com-
munist representation in the Chamber of
Deputies and in the municipal councils
of Paris’s Red Belt, which representation
can scarcely now be an actual reflection
of Communist strength in the French
army or nation. If France and Britain
cannot be divided, both, the enemy
imagines, can be induced to accept his
conquest of Poland and his vague promise
of armaments-reduction, coupled with a
probably idle threat of active Russian
assistance in the aerial war and of a repe-
tition of the old Russian menace to India,
if not other Asian territories in which
Britain has vital interests.
Meanwhile it remains a most mys-
terious war.
A Pocket Battleship Loose?
“Periscope Pete”: Conflicting stories
tell of the destruction of the British
freighter Clement oft the Brazilian coast.
An American United Press correspon-
dent at Bahia reported that a pocket
battleship had done the job. The captain
of a Swedish liner declared that he had
noticed a German cruiser headed for
Africa with a U-boat following. The
chief officer of the Clement attributes the
sinking to the pocket battleship Admiral
Scheer. The Admiralty is not convinced.
If it is a pocket battleship there will
have to be another Fisher-Sturdee coup.
Pocket battleships carry more armor
than our 10,000-ton cruisers, though
they are not so fast. They are
Diesel-engined and built for long-range,
slow cruising, and they mount six 11 in.
guns, each hurling a projectile weighing
6701 b. and eight 5.9 in. hurling 1001 b. shells.
“ Hey — that's no Way to chip potatoes!"
Rates of pay per day for the new
A.l.F.—and militia after the first month’s
camp —have been fixed:
De-
In Out of ferred
Rank. Australia. Australia. Pay.
£ s. d. £ s. d. s. d.
Major-general ..359 217 9 8 0
Brigadier .. ..250 IJ7 0
Colonel .. ..2 5 0 1 170 80
Lieut.-colonel .. 1 17 6 1 10 0 1 6
Major .. ..1 10 0 1 5 0 5 0
Captain .. ..126 0F 0 \ \
Lieutenant .. 015 0 015 0
Warrant-officer (1) 013 0 013 0 7 0
Warrant-officer (2) 0110 011 0 - 0
Staff sgt., sqd., bty. „ , , ,
or C.Q.M. sgt. 010 6 010 6 1 6
Sergeant .. .. 0.10 0 010 0 10
Corp. & Bom’dier 090 090 10
Artificer or special- • „ „ , .
ist, Group 1..080 080 10
Group 2 ..070 070 10
Group 3 ..060 06 0 10
Private •• ..05 0 0 50 1 0
Deferred pay is only for those on service
outside Australia. There is, in addition,
an allowance of 2s. 6d. a Gay for the
wives of all ranks and 9d, for each child.
The Bulletin sentiments are expressed
in a “Plain English” article.
* * * *
“T.” surveys the past:
The formation of a Polish Legion in France
is an interesting reversion to history. The
Poles supported Napoleon in his two wars
against the Russians, and many of them fol-
lowed him to France. Fie sent Polish Lancers
to the Peninsula to fight against Wellington’s
soldiers, and took Poles with him to Elba.
When he left that island on his last and most
spectacular adventure, 100 of the warriors who
accompanied him were Poles. Some of them
nearly spoiled his plans for a bloodless march
to Paris by trying to spiflicate Macdonald,
descendant of Scottish Jacobites, most faith-
ful of all his marshals in 1814, and one
of the few who were faithful to the Bourbons
after they took the oath of allegiance to that
family. Macdonald commanded the Bour-
bonist army sent to Lyons to defend that city
asainst Napoleon. Among the impedimenta
were the Count of Artois (afterwards King
Charles) and the Duke of Orleans (afterwards
King Louis Philippe); and, according to
Lamartine, both were “irresolute,’ ue., scared.
Anyway, the army went over to Napoleon, ana
Macdonald, the last man to leave, just missed
being grabbed and run through and through
bv Poles. He saved himself by taking a
flying leap on the back of a very swift horse.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: That new militia service uni-
form (B. 27/9/’39) is, in fact, considerably
different from the British outfit. It is
topped off by the old turned-up hat ot
the A.IiF. ; there are plenty of pockety
and the “plus four” pants come wed
below the knees, merging into gaiters
or puttees. In essentials it is a modifica-
tion of the old cadet uniform which we
used to wear at Brisbane Grammar
School nearly 40 years ago. As Lava rack
and Miles began their careers in the old
clobber it is easy to see where some ot.
the inspiration for the new uniform
originated
* * * *
Queensland horsed soldiers, artillery
and infantry, together with special-
ist units, were mobilised last week
for their first camp. Trains loaded
with N. S. Wales militiamen were on
the move, and on Monday 6000
troops went under canvas at Sey-
mour (Vic.) ready for full-scale battle
exercises. A second Victorian contin-
gent —2400 men—is scheduled to settle
down at Mt. Martha on Oct. 12, another
700 men going to Portsea and Sorrento.
Seymour units will be replaced by a
fresh batch of 4300 of the Third Division
on Nov. 9, and the second half of the
Fourth Division, 4700 in all, will take
over Mt. Martha and Ocean Grove on
Nov. 18.
* _ * * *
From everywhere come splendid
reports of the physical fitness of volun-
teers for the new A.I.F. —officially the
Sixth Division. Of 653 men who came
up in Victoria on one day, only 138 were
turned down —80 permanently.
* * * *
The Maoris have had their way with
the Government, which contemplated
forming them into a pioneer unit. A
Maori rifle battalion is being enlisted.
* # * *
“Dazzle”: * Camouflage, the art of
“making things seem what they ain’t,”
was known early in the last war as
“dazzle painting,” and in the last year or
so in the R.A.F. as “shadow painting.”
One of the most striking instances I ever
saw was a British freighter in the Eastern
Med. whicht had the silhouette of a
destroyer outlined in black along the
waterline, presumably with the idea that a
U-boat skipper would think twice before
attacking. It is recorded that in Flanders
the Germans concealed a whole village
under sheets of brown colored canvas.
Large numbers of troops were screened
by that effort until a ’plane, shot down in
combat, made a forced landing through
part of the canvas.
* * * *
“Atrax”: There are some queer faces
in the map of Europe which Hitler is
striving to alter. Germany thrusts a
lowering brow against the borders of the
Low Countries, and hangs a bulbous nose
over Switzerland. France glares savagely
back with a masterful nose pushing to-
wards Karlsruhe and a long fighting chin
set hard against north-eastern Italy. Eng-
land frowns across the Channel above a
Wellingtonian beak. Poland scowls a
the back of Germany’s head, forming tnt
head of a war-dancing female whom
Rumania continues to the waist Yugo-
slavia and Bulgaria provide with brief
skirts and what skirts cover, Italy with
one full-kicking leg, Greece with its fore-
shortened mate. The stern Roman profile
of Portugal gazes gravely out on the
Atlantic: Spain holds her retrousse nose
delicately over Northern Algeria, and
doesn’t seem to like the smell of it.
* * * *
Hitler claims that Poland was subdued
with only 44,194 casualties —10,572 dead,
30,222 wounded and 3400 missing.
* * * *
“J. Want”: The only two real battle-
ships Germany has in commission are the
Scharnhorst and the Gneisenau, named
after the cruisers that the R.A.N. drove
out of the Pacific, but 26,000-tonners.
There are two others building—3s,ooo-
- with 15-inch guns. Britain has
one 42,000-ton and two 32,000-ton battle-
cruisers, plus 12 battleships over 30,000
tons, two 35,000-tonners on point of com-
pletion, three more of the same vintage
and two over 40,000 tons under way.
It has 86 cruisers, built and building,
against Germany’s 13 —seven building.
* * * *
“Zedo”: - Walter Nairn, the Perth
M.H.R., asking in the House whether
restrictions had been imposed on rifle
clubs regarding the holding of competi-
tions, was told that, “at the suggestion
of the W.A. Rifle Association, certain
restrictions” were being enforced to save
ammunition. Archie Cameron wanted
to know whether output
was so meagre that restric-
tion had been found neces-
sary. Supply Minister
Casey replied that output
was by no means meagre,
but usage in war-time was
likely to be very great.
Some clubs, while willing
to drop competitions,
are against restriction of
ammunition. At Murwil-
lumbah (N.S.W.) the club
gives Saturday rifle-
instruction to anyone
bringing his own cart-
ridges. On the first after-
noon 36 strangers fired 16
rounds apiece. Why not develop light-
rifle shooting? A high-power .22, such
as many kangaroo-shooters use, with its
flat trajectory and tremendous smashing
power, will kill just as effectively as a
.303. If there should be an invasion the
light rifle would be a potent weapon,
especially in our heavily-scrubbed coasted
ranges.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: “In their action with regard
to merchant ships submarines must con-
form to the rules of international law to
which surface ships are subject.” Thus
Part IV of the London Treaty of 1930,
ratified by the British Empire, Japan and
the U.S.A., given the explicit assent of
Germany and France by the Geneva
Protocol of 1935, and not since annulled
by any of the five Powers concerned.
International rules for surface ships in-
clude visit and search, bringing all com-
mercial prizes before a prize court, sink-
ing only as an extraordinary measure,
and only then after full provision has
been made for safety of crew and pas-
sengers. Germany claims that she is
justified in sinking all enemy merchant
ships as a retaliation against the British
blockade just as in 1916, when there was
no international law on the subject. The
legal position is that every submarine
which sinks a merchant ship without
warning thereby becomes a common
pirate on the high seas. All her company
are liable to summary death penalty.


k
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
For the Fifth Successive Year,.. The
Most Beautiful Thing on Wheels
«
o'
\ sv
>*eo
tcv
\o
6<*
H
'f£W
"Running sv/eetly
as ever
x
\e*
a'
oo
0
<:::•
' 1
-
False?
T r ae or tn
* ; in import*"' 6 .* 0
N ext only «* maintaining
lubrication a car ts the
the long lt j e ° o \ ing the cyltn-
auestion of coot S dWJ0 »gi>
&r
‘ yiin
Is this correct?
'SO TROUBLE-FREE that it has
built up the Happiest Family
of Owners in the World
l*ontiac’s beauty and luxury attract most owners
to Pontiac in the first place . . . And Pontiac’s
unfailing freedom from trouble keeps them
enthusiastically loyal to their choice. Better
engineering is the secret. Take into account the
long trouble-free life that is assured by full-pressure
lubrication of the engine even to the piston pin
bearings (instead of oil spray lubrication of these
important bearings) ... complete surrounding of
cylinders with water instead of the cheaper method
of cooling cylinders in pairs with no water passage
between each pair . . . ventilation of the crank-
case against corrosive acid fumes .. . electro-plated
cast iron pistons... automatic choke... and many
other features.
The more you investigate it the more your
choice will be Pontiac.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Use the Convenient. Confidential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan.
V<mUac
The Most Trouble-free Car in the World
Ouy from your Local Pontiac Dealer
2888
Sold and Serviced by Pontiac Dealers throughout Australia.
THE FLYING COLUMN
Balloon Barrage.
“Don”: The present balloon defence
of London against air-raiders is a de-
velopment of the scheme evolved during
the last war.
Major-General Ashmore’s “apron” was
quite a simple project; several moored
balloons were linked by means of a
horizontal wire, from which weighted
streamers were suspended at intervals.
First trials were made in 1917 with five
Caquot balloons in Richmond Park. A
stiff breeze brought disaster, when sudden
strain jerked the “apron” aloft with two
men who had not had time to let go of
ropes. The present system has in-
volved considerable research in develop-
ing balloons capable of reaching the
necessary heights when carrying some
30,000 feet of steel cable.
The effectiveness of the scheme has
yet to be proved. It has been noted that
Berlin has something similar, and that
R.A.F. leaflet raiders recently got there
and back. It if does nothing else,
however, the sight of the balloons in the
sky day and night will give confidence
to the man in the street.
Bomber v. Fighter.
“Aren-As”: The fighter’s job is to
destroy hostile aircraft as quickly as pos-
sible ; the bomber’s aim is to find allotted
objectives and hit them. Bombers and
similar aircraft will try to avoid combat,
but, if forced into it, must be able to put
up a formidable defence.
To achieve his object, the fighter pilot
needs speed, climb, manoeuvrability and
fire-power; he needs to be able to attack
the bomber at his most vulnerable point
—where he is least able to return fire. In
recent years, bomber design has reduced
“blind-spots” to a minimum, but, against
that, fighters now carry eight guns, and
may have more.
Attacking bombers that are in forma-
tion, the fighter’s job is not so easy ; a
formation of bombers can be considered
to have concentrated fire-power. That is
true also of a fighter formation, though
it is somewhat difficult for fighter for-
mations to shoot in unison, their guns
being fixed.
It is essential for the bomber to re-
duce the fighter’s straight run to as short
a time as possible.
“Aldisite”: Fighting above the Sieg-
fried Line an R.A.F. reconnaissance
machine shot down two German Messer-
schmitt fighters. The Messerschmitt
fighter is a formidable job with a speed
around 400 m.p.h. The R.A.F. machines
carried rear gunners and were obviously
something of the Wellington bomber type.
What I can’t make out is why a recon-
naissance flight in these times should be
unaccompanied by fighters, flying at a
higher altitude.
“Skid”: That R.A.F. W/T operator-
gunner who got two Messerschmitts
from the back cockpit of a reconnais-
sance machine reminds me of a “two-
seater ace” of the last war: a Canadian,
Captain McKeever. Most of his work
was done in a Bristol fighter. On
two occasions he accounted for three
enemy machines in one day. In all,
McKeever scored 30 victories in two-
seaters, and in the space of five months
he had shot down 29 foes, a record never
equalled by any two-seater pilot. He
survived the war and was killed in a
skidding car on Christmas Day, 1919.
* * * *
“Don”: The aerodrome at Macquarie
Grove, near Camden (N.S.W.), declared
open by Minister Fairbairn, has hangars
and workshops that cost five figures. It
has been made available to the Common-
wealth by Edward Macarthur Onslow,
and with this public-spirited gift go
the services of engineers, aircraftsmen,
groundsmen and the use of a wide variety
of aircraft for training—D.H. Moths, a
twin-engined Dragon, an Avian, two
Pragas, two Genaircos. a B.A. Swallow
and a Comper Swift. Runways at Mac-
quarie Grove are long, with well-grassed
surfaces, and therefore usable in. any
kind of weather. The Macarthur Onslow
brothers are making plans for the accom-
modation of students.
J|s * * *
Civil Aviation Minister Fairbairn has
sent out an urgent call for commercial
pilots to act as instructors. The age limit
has been extended to 45 ; applicants must
have A or B licenses, have done at least
200 hours in the air, and have had recent
experience. They will rank as pilot offi-
cers, and first do a six to eight weeks’
special course.
* * * *
Supplementary R.A.A.F. schools have
lost no time getting down to work. The
first batch for training at Archerfield
(Brisbane) arrived for a two months’
course after a preliminary breaking-in at
Point Cook. They include farmers, bank
clerks and engineers, and hail from places
as far apart as W.A. and Atherton (N.Q.).
7 * * *
“Aren-As”: Before going overseas
the A.A.E.F. will undergo a course
of training. A few weeks’ experience
handling modern fighters and bombers
overseas will complete the preparation.
Men of the R.A.A.F. Reserve who have
held short-service commissions in Eng-
land should very quickly be able to take
charge of advanced types of aircraft.
* * * *
“Colonel B’st’r”: Hitler’s truculent
remarks about a new weapon which will
knock the stuffing out of all enemies with-
out any risk of reprisal are probably
based on more than bluff but much less
than proved experiment. “Death rays”
and other alleged devices for bringing
down aeroplanes or rendering artillery
unworkable are not scientifically practi-
cable. Even if they were their effects
would spread in all directions, and could
be reflected back on the attackers.
Bacterial warfare is equally impracticable
as far as any decisive effect is concerned.
The most likely bet seems to be the rocket
glider-bomb, which, released from ’planes
at high elevation, is claimed to have an
effective range up to 120 miles and suffi-
cient accuracy to score one hit in five
on a target the size of London. But
anti-Nazi experts experimented with the
tiring for many years, and dis-
carded it as hopelessly inaccurate.
“ Don't Worry , Bill; THEY cant shoot."
“D.8.K.”: In 1849 the Austrian army
attacked Venice from the air. An
officer, Uchatius, had a notion that
Montgolfier balloons filled wnn wax in
air could carry a bomb weighing up to
301 b. to a height of several hundred
metres and sustain it for at least 30
minutes. He allowed for 100 balloons, 50
stoves for heating, 100 bombs and a
windproof tent. From a warship, a
test balloon was first sent up and the
route marked on a map. Then the ship’s
position was changed, advantage being
taken of the direction of the wind, to
admit of the balloons arriving over the
most important strategic points, bombs
being dropped by an automatic re-
lease gadget.
The bombs
didn’t drop
where they were
intended. Some
which exploded
in St. Mark’s
Square caused a
panic among
the population.
But preparations
for every raid
took up so
much time that
in the intervals
the Venetians
recovered from
their fright.
Total result of
the raids was
four men killed,
26 wounded and
several houses
destroyed. The
most spectacular
result was pro-
vided by the
balloons, which,
after being aloft
for 30 minutes,
exploded in mid-
air.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn _it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. EiJ ‘ Ryan ’ Esq ' ;
F E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
nffll ir OnLm nd and Northern Rivers, New South Males, also representation
E « covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SHORTHAND
You will learn Dutton Shortjiand completely in
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 w.p.m. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson free without obligation.
DUTTON SHORTHAND (N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1644 P, Wellington, N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell - ’ or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Journalist (Sydney), just completed six years
on leading weekly, sub-editing, special writing,
make-up, etc., seeks change. Will go any-
where for right job. Refs. —4914.
To buy surveyor’s dumpy level. Send par-
ticulars to W.D., 48 Bell-street, South Towns-
ville, Q.—4918.
. English and German words to “Blue
Danube” waltz and to Mozart’s “Lullaby.”—
4920.
Information Sought.
What were the salient points of the Brest-
Litovsk treaty, signed between Russia and Ger-
many on March 3, 1918 ? —4910.
Russia had to cede all interest in Poland,
the Baltic provinces, Lithuania, the Ukraine
and Finland; also Ardahan, Kars and Batum —
regions captured from the Turks in 1887. The
fortifications on the Aland Islands were to be
removed and not subsequently rebuilt. The
territories relinquished were supposed to be
given the right of self-determination, but they
passed very much under the influence of Ger-
many or Austria. Russia lost 435,000 sq. m.
in Europe and a population of 55,000,000,
and commercial and economic treaties which
followed gave Germany free traffic through
Russia to Persia and Afghanistan.
* * * *
A brief outline of the history of Poland •
4902.
Poland’s recorded history begins somewhere
late in the tenth century when a number of
Slavonic tribes joined and settled in the basins
of the Vistula, the Warta and the Oder. The
State reached the peak of its power between
the fourteenth and sixteenth centuries, and be-
gan to totter in the seventeenth. By the three
partitions of 1772, 1793 and 1795 the Polish
Commonwealth was divided among Prussia,
Russia and Austria. Napoleon re-formed part
of it in 1807, but in 1815 it was repartitioned,
except for Cracow, which remained an inde-
pendent republic until it was annexed by
Austria in 1835. In 1915 the whole of Poland
was occupied by Austro-German forces and,
later, its independence proclaimed. In 1919
the Versailles Treaty recognised Poland’s in-
dependence and fixed its western frontier from
the sea to upper Silesia. The Polish-German
frontier was decided on after a plebiscite held
in upper Silesia and the territory east of the
Vistula according to the resolve of the Council
of Ambassadors, which also fixed the Lithu-
anian- and Czec'noslovak-Polish frontiers. The
eastern boundaries were fixed by the Treaty of
Riga, March 18, 1921. In recent weeks Poland
has been overrun and occupied by Germany
and Russia.
* * * *
Particulars of the two conscription referen-
durns submitted to Australia and the A.I.P ■
in France in 1916 and 1917 ? —4923.
The question submitted at the first referen-
dum was, “Are you in favor of the Govern-
ment having, in this grave emergency, the
same compulsory powers over citizens in regard
to requiring their military service, for the term
of this war, outside the Commonwealth, as it
now has with regard to military service within
the Commonwealth?” The voting in Australia
began on October 28, 1916, and resulted:
N.S.W., 356,805 for and 474,544 against;
Vic., 353,930 and 328,216; Q., 144,200 and
158,051 ; S.A., 87,924 and 119,236; W.A.,
94,069 and 40,884; Tas., 48,493 and 37,833;
Federal Territories, 2136 and 1269; total
1,087,557 for and 1,160,033 against. The
A.I.F. in France voted in the week beginning
October 16, 1916; the result was 72,399 for,
58,894 against and 2520 informal. The second
referendum asked, “Are you in favor of the
proposal of the Commonwealth Government
for reinforcing the Australian Imperial Forces
oversea?” Voting in Australia began on
December 20, 1917, and resulted: N.S.W.
341,256 for and 487,774 against; Vic., 329,772
and 332,490; Q., 132,771 and 168,875; S.A.,
86,663 and 106,364; W.A., 84,116 and
46,522; Tas., 38,8-81 and 38,502; Federal
Territories, 1700 and 1220; total 1,015,159 for
and 1,181,747 against. The A.I.F. in France
voted in the week beginning December 12,
1917; the result was 103,789 for, 93,910 against
and 1978 informal.
* * * *
(1) When were firearms first used in Europe ?
(2) Types of guns used prior to the introduc-
tion of the rifle ? (3) Advantages of the rifle
over the earlier weapons ? —4930.
(1) They were certainly used from 1325
onwards on both sea and land. Some of these
early guns were of very large calibre; one, the
Flemish “Dulle Griete,” fired a 25in. ball.
(2) Early hand guns were fired from a touch-
hole (1458) in which a match was brought down
to the touchhole by a trigger. Then came the
wheel-lock, in principle like the present-day
pocket-lighter. In the sixteenth century flint
and steel were introduced in the flintlock.
Ignition by percussion was invented by an
English clergyman, A. J. Forsyth, and the per-
cussion cap, employing fulminate, was invented
in America in 1814. (3) The bullet, owing
to the gyrostatic effect of the spin, maintains
a constant direction. The effect of the air on
its flight is definite and always the same.
* * * *
(1) Is writing by shorthand a very old
system ? (2) When was modern shorthand
instituted, in England ? (3) When was Pitman's
system originated ? —4BBl.
(1) Shorthand was practised, and brought to
a high state of perfection, by the Greeks and
Romans, and the Tironian system of the latter
survived to medieval times. (2) The first
system was that of Timothy Bright, in 1588,
but Pepys wrote his Diary in the system of
Thomas Shelton (1630). These, and many
other early systems, were based on ortho-
graphic spelling. (3) It first appeared in 1837,
and soon attracted attention by reason of its
methodical classification of speech sounds and
its use of abbreviations. It remains probably
the most widely used to-day. Pitman experts
have attained a speed of over 250 words per
minute.
* * * *
. What is the Sphinx in classical mythology ?
—4890.
A female monster with a woman’s head,
a dog’s body, serpent’s tail, bird’s wings, lion’s
feet and human voice. Sent by Juno to ravage
the country around Thebes, it could be turned
away only if the following riddle were
answered: What animal walks on four legs in
the morning, on two at midday and on three
in the evening? CEdipus delivered Thebes
from the Sphinx by answering as follows:
Man, for he crawls on four legs in his child-
hood (the morning of life), walks erect on
two legs in his prime (the noon), and walks
with the aid of a stick in his old age (the
evening). The Egyptian Sphinx was a lion
with a human head symbolising royal dignity.
* * * *
Would the reading of a published play by
a club where no admission fee is charged be
subject to the payment of royalty? —4B97.
Copyright in dramatic works means the sole
right to produce or reproduce a play, or any
substantial part of it. Whether a performance
is a public one or merely domestic depends
entirely upon the circumstances. That the
performance does not take place in a regular
theatre or hired hall, or that no charge for
admission is made, or that it is given before
members of a club or society and invited friends
does not make the performance other than
a public one. The practice is, however, to
allow such readings without payment of
royalties.
* * * *
Particulars, including inventor and date, of
the Martini-Henry action as used on .310 cadet
rifle's ? Can it be converted for a .32 cartridge ?
—4817.
The Martini rifle —an under lever action,
single-shot rifle--was invented by an Italian
during the reign of Queen Victoria. It carries
a 577-450 cartridge. The .310 rifle is an im-
provement on the Martini —the lock can be
removed by taking a split pin from the side.
Invented by Francotte, of Liege, this rifle can
be converted to take the .32 cartridge at very
little cost. The .310 cartridge can still be used
after conversion.
* * * *
What is “haggis” ? —4939.
A Scots dish consisting of sheep’s heart,
liver and tongue minced and mixed with oat-
meal, suet, onions and seasoning. This mixture
is placed in a sheep’s paunch and boiled slowly
for two or three hours. It is served from a
small hole cut in the skin.
* * * *
Origin of the expression “halcyon days” ?
4934.
Halcyone was the daughter of Aiolus. Her
husband Ceyx was drowned, and when she
found his body on the shore she cast herself
into the sea, and both she and Ceyx were
turned into birds. These birds (halcyons) build
their nests upon the water when it is calm;
hence “halcyon days” are days of peace and
security.
* * * *
The resistance to fracture or to bending by
a beam of wood or metal increases in propor-
tion to its width, but increases by the square
of the depth. Why is it that the resistance in-
creases by the square of the depth? —4694.
The origin of all such formulae is empirical;
therefore it is fair to assume that it has been
ascertained by experiment that timbers, on an
average, exert a resistance to fracture directly
proportional to width multiplied by the square
of the depth.
* * * *
A list of about 40 of the more important
Australian women novelists ?—• 4929.
Mrs. Campbell Praed, Catherine Helen
Spence, Mrs. M. T. Vidal, Caroline Leakey,
Ada Cambridge, Jessie Catherine Couvreur,
Barbara Baynton, Stella Miles Franklin,
Dorothea Mackellar, Ruth Bedford, Henry
Handel Richardson, Zora Cross, Katherine
Susannah Prichard, M. L. Skinner, Winifred
Birkett, M. Barnard Eldershaw, Dymphna
Cusack, Eleanor Dark, Henrietta Drake-Brock-
man, Mary Fullerton, G. B. Lancaster, Mary
Mitchell, Mary Marlowe, Alison McDougall,
Myra Morris, Georgia Rivers, Hilda Bridges,
Helen Simpson, Christina Stead, Kylie Tennant,
Jean Devanny, Beatrice Grimshaw, Mary
Gaunt, Alice Grant Rosman, Alys Brown,
Dulcie Deamer, Vera Dwyer, Doris Kerr,
Dorothy Langsford and Dorothy Cottrell.
* * * #
Definitions of (1) public holidays and (2)
restaurants under the N.S.W. Restaurant Em-
ployees’ Award ? —475 7.
(1) For the purpose of the award, the fol-
lowing days, or days observed as such, together
with all other days proclaimed as public holi-
days for the State, shall be public holidays:
New Year’s Day, Anniversary Day, Good
Friday, Easter Monday, Anzac Day, Kings
Birthday, Eight Hour Day, Christmas Day and
Boxing Day. (2) Restaurant means any meal-
room, grillroom, coffee shop, tea shop, oyster
shop, fish cafe, cafeteria, hamburger, and in-
cludes any place, building or part thereof,
stand, stall, tent, vehicle, boat in, on or from
which food is sold or served for consumption
on the premises.
* * * *
Some particulars concerning one of the
bower-birds, known as the regent-bird 4816.
The regent-bird ( Sericulus chrysocephalus),
the sole member of its genus, is confined to
the scrubs of south-eastern Queensland and
north-eastern N.S.W. The male—the most
handsome of all bower-birds —is velvety-black,
with head, neck, back and some of the wing
feathers a rich orange-yellow. The female is
brown above, with a whitish head and under-
parts, and black patches on the head and
throat. This species feeds on insects as well
as on berries and other fruits; its call is a
single whistle. The nest is a slender structure,
usually placed in a bunch of trailing creepers;
the eggs are yellowish, with blotches of brown
and grey and fine stripes and scrawls of red-
dish-brown. The bower is like that of the
satin-bird, but smaller and sometimes without
any platform of sticks. It is decorated chiefly
with berries, leaves and snail-shells.
• * * *
(1) What are dugong? Of what use are
they besides furnishing food for abos. ? (2)
Does the female suckle her young? —4924.
Dugong is the name commonly given to a
swimming mammal ( Halicare australis ) in-
habiting Malayan and North Australian waters.
The mature animal weighs 10001 b. to 12001 b.,
and is Bft. to 10ft. long. It is hunted by
Europeans for (a) the oil contained in the in-
ternal fat, which has medicinal value, especially
for lung complaints; ( b ) the hide, which can
be tanned into excellent leather; and (c) the
bones, which are said to make the best char-
coal for sugar-refining. A well-grown dugong
yields four to five gallons of oil; its hide,
when green, weighs nearly 2001 b. (2) Yes,
the baby—about 3ft. long when born —is
suckled through a nipple 2in. long situated
just beneath the flapper on each side.
* * * *
(1) Does mahogany grow wild in Australia ?
(2) If not, what is the salmon-colored native
wood sold under that name ? (3) Does teak
grow in Australia? (4) What is Pacific oak?
—4904.
(1) The mahoganies of Australia are euca-
lypts and grow in the mixed hardwood forests
of N.S.W. and Q’land. They are not identical
with the timber known as mahogany in Europe.
This comes from the West Indies, Honduras
and West Coast of Africa, and belongs botani-
cally to Cedrcelacece or cedar tribe. (2) Can’t
say on this information; but the red mahogany
of N.S.W. (Euc. resinfera ) is one of our prime
hardwoods. It is not a true mahogany. (3)
Australian teak ( Flindersia Australis ) is one
of the finest brushwoods of Australia, and is
of a dull yellowish color. In demand for car-
riage work. Distribution now very limited.
But, again, this is not the “teak” of British
commerce, which is obtained in British Burma
and is botanically Tectona grandis. (4) Pacific
oak is a trade name, and includes timbers of
the Pacific Islands, including Japan, with pro-
nounced oak figure, and is frequently a species
of true oak ( Quercus ).
* * * *
How to prune and cultivate Christmas-bush ?
—4919.
The best time to prune Christmas-bush is just
after flowering, which is from mid-November
to mid-December, when the seeds are ready
for sowing. When it is cut at Christmas-
time it is past its fundamental flowering stage
(a month or six weeks past), and the flowers
have all gone and only persistent colored
sepals remains. The seed should be sown
before the end of the year, as it becomes very
hard. Sow the seed in sandy soil in the open
ground to its own depth. After sowing lay
dry twigs or anything that will burn quickly
all over the ground and burn them, then
give the ground, while still warm, a good soak-
ing with water. When the seedlings are a few
inches high they should be transplanted into
tins or flowerpots before being planted out in
their permanent sites.
* * * *
How to kill a pepper-tree by poison ?
4913.
Ringbark the tree by cutting a frill around
the trunk by downward cuts with an axe, thus
forming a gutter into which an arsenic solu-
tion should be poured from an old teapot or
other convenient container. A suitable solution
is made by dissolving with gentle heat loz.
arsenic and 3oz. washing-soda in three pints
water. If only a few trees are to be treated,
it would be more convenient to purchase a
liquid arsenical weed-destroyer from a seeds-
man and use diluted 1 to 25 with water. These
solutions are highly poisonous, and great care
should be exercised in handling them.
* * * *
How to preserve fresh orange-juice? —4686.
It is barely possible to preserve orange-juice
in a fresh condition by home methods —even
after exhaustive investigation the preservation
of the juice for commercial production is not
entirely satisfactory. The commonly-used pre-
servative for liquid food products is potassium
metabisulphite, of which the N.S.W. Pure Food
Act prescribes a maximum concentration of 3|
grains per pint of fruit juice and fruit-juice
products. If you wish to attempt preservation
of the juice peel the oranges very cleanly and
add the preservative—one ounce would suf-
fice for 25 gallons juice, though a third of
that concentration of sulphite is apparent to
the taste. Juices must be handled only in glass,
enamel or stainless-steel vessels. Pasteurisa-
tion of citrus fruit-juices results in a definite
cooked flavor.
* * * *
The formulae of Fehling’s No. 1 and No. 2
solutions ?— 4922.
No. 1: Copper sulphate in crystals 36.64
grammes, sulphuric acid 0.50 millilitre, dis-
tilled water sufficient to produce 500 milli-
litres ; dissolve. No. 2: Sodium potassium tar-
trate 176 grammes, sodium hydroxide 77
grammes, distilled water sufficient to produce
500 millilitres. Mix equal volumes of solutions
No. 1 and No. 2 at the time of using.
Brief Answers.
AB • (1) There has always ben a steady
market’for fair-quality opal in Australia, and
of recent years this market has considerably
increased. (2) Prices vary according to the
quality, all the way from ss. to £5 per carat,
depending on color effect. (3) War should not
affect the market, save in its effect on tourist
tra ffi c R.L.8.: Know of no books on the
subject'' It is not a subject that can be learned
from books. Get a draughtsman or architect
to give you a few tips... .R.E.L.: Thornycroft
(Aust), 6 Wattle-street, Pyrmont, Sydney....
W.H.W.: Pigs, Their Breeding, Feeding and
Management, by Fishwick (13s. 6d.), obtainable
from Whitcombe and Tombs, Melbourne....
CH M : Franz Lehar is a Hungarian, born
in 1870. “The Merry Widow,” his first and
most successful comic opera, was first per-
formed in 1905. He has since composed
“Gipsy Love,” “The Count of Luxembourg,’
“Eva,” “Frasquita,” “Paganini,” “Frederika’
and “Land of Smiles”. ...J.R.M.: Write
W C Penfold and Co., 88 Pitt-street, Sydney.
AH • (1) M. J. Savage, Premier; P. C.
Webb, Minister for Mines; R. Semple, Public
Works Minister; W. E. Parry, Minister of
Internal Affairs—all of M.L. Labor Govern-
ment (2) All were born in Australia. (3)
All were miners and active in trade-union
movement. (4) That’s their business....
CW G : Apparently, on the facts stated, a
prosecution under the Secret Commissions
Prohibition Act would lie. No prosecution
under this Act must, however, be commenced
after the expiration of two years from the
commission of the offence charged or six
months from the first discovery thereof by
the principal or the person advised, as the
case may be, whichever expiration first hap-
pens. A prosecution under this Act would
require the consent of the Attorney-General.
R.D.: Fulton Stenographic Agency, 93-99
Nassau-street, Mackey Employment Agency,
55 West 42nd-street, General Place-
ment Bureau, 132 Nassau-street, Business
Vocational Service, 65 West 42nd-street, Van
Tyn Agency, 1 West 34th-street—all New York,
NY, U.S.A G.S.: The owner of the ad-
joining land has no legal claim against you
for the half-cost of the fence. It should have
been met by the then holder of the land when
the fence was put up D.M.C.: The
council’s recourse for unpaid rates is against
the land, and the information given by the
local-government official is correct. Pay-
ment of the rates will have to be met so long
as you hold the land G.G.: Write Under-
secretary, Dept, of Agriculture, Bridge-street,
Sydney J.J.W.: Get in touch with C. J. V.
Weaver, 11 Carlisle-street, Leichhardt
V. : H.M.S. Salamander, a paddle-wheel
sloop of 818 tons, 220 h.p., six guns, was
appointed to the Australian station in Decem-
ber, 1863, and recalled in June, 1867. There
is no record of her visiting Booby Island
W. : The correspondence course “The 54
Common Errors in English” is conducted by
E. H. Welford, 396 Flinders-lane, Melbourne.
... .F.H.: None of them is a returned soldier.
W.S.: There is no relationship F.H.G.:
See Whitaker’s Almanack for 1939 ... J.R.D.:
Frequent washing of the scalp is essential.
Use soap spirit, and then wash it out thoroughly
with two or three fresh washings. If this
fails send further particulars N.N.: See
R. J. Tillyard’s Insects of Australia and New
Zealand; also articles in The Australian Ency-
clopcedia T.F.C.: In the absence of good
reason to the contrary a father has the right
to determine the religion of his child. He can
only be deprived of that right by reason of
moral misconduct or if the Court is satisfied
that he is not a fit person to exercise it.
The right continues until the child attains full
age N.C.A.: The Bulletin Booklets were
issued between 1899 and 1903. In order of
publication they were: The Hidden Tide, by
Roderic! Quinn, A Rose of Regret, by James
Hebblethwaite, The Circling Hearths, by
Roderic Quinn, Dreams in Flower, by Louise
Mack, The West Wind, by Hubert Church,
and Downward ?, by Bernard O’Dowd. All six
were published together in 1904 under the title
of The Southern Garland.... T.E.C.: The
Department of Public Lands (Q.) makes no
charge to alter the name of a town, but be-
fore the alteration is made the postal authori-
ties must be satisfied that the proposed change
has widespread support. The opinions of
residents, the Shire Council and any other
local bodies should also be obtained.
... .F.C.M.P.: (1) Most of the benefit arises
from stimulation produced by rubbing. (2)
Not of special medicinal value....J.W.G.: A
popular misconception with no foundation in
fact.... .8.E.F.: If pain is acute and con-
tinuous, best plan is surgical removal. No
medical treatment is likely to effect a cure.
E.G.: Trouble is probably pruritus of the
anus. Unlikely to be caused by drugs. If you
do not suffer from diabetes or any other con-
stitutional disease, or from haemorrhoids or
fistula, try the effect of calamine lotion, with
one drachm of carbolic acid to every eight
ounces of calamine. Haemorrhoids are a
frequent cause of such trouble—.J.S.M.: If
study is a matter of necessity, and you are at
work all day, your best plan is to sleep for a
while during early evening and start work
later. Black coffee often helps. Cause is
either sheer fatigue or personal idiosyncrasy —
many students suffer in this way. . ..W.M.P.:
The accepted definition was given in the fewest
words. These contractions frequently occur
without any known cause as a personal
peculiarity ( e.g ., that in your right palm), but
they are often the result of injury with an in-
flammatory process as a sequel (e.g., the ail-
ment in your left hand). Don’t be persuaded
to waive your appeal regarding the latter.
W.R.B.: There are 707 species of birds,
including sea-birds, listed in the check list of
Australian birds. About 120 (including sea-
birds, ducks and coot) may be classed as water-
birds. (2) No record of the exact depth of
the Pyramids beneath the surface of the ground.
The measurement has varied considerably
during the years because of drifting sand, which
has, on occasions, almost covered the wind-
ward side.


mmm
■r
K c
7<
p ih
t
A?
it
A
ON
A*
H
ns
<*
$A
™ c ae fT£ 10!
■
H
J
■iSSS ' fci :
. ' : W.
.■'.mm
m
m
■
■ a
warn
i
HI I
:■
» :
£ Compact and
space saving.
£ Easy to regu-
late.
£ Accurate flush-
ing.
Q Attractive
appearance.
0 Wall free from
ugly fittings.
Installation above is at Macleay Regis Flats,
Potts Point, Sydney. The 87 flats are installed
as shown with “Hush” flushers and Neo
Chrome Bath sets. We also supplied the
builders’ hardware throughout, as well as
“White Rose” C.I. English Boilers and Pall
Mall Radiators for hot water supply and
central heating.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE OF “MODERN HOME FITTINGS.”
’PHONE: M 6505 (18 LINES). LATE SHOPPING, FRIDAY, 8.30 PM.
JOHN DANKS »»■> SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED nwoweMTEtnivtcTDiiti
324-330 Pitt Street, Sydney.
391-403 Bourke Street, Melbourne. ’Phone: M 2331.
JA V A Ba,i —Singapore
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. "MARELLA" and m.v. "MERKUR"
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board .is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folji No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 87901
\\
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
k
///
/
COME to Wellington, New Zealand only 2\ days’ sail!
■— and see the Greatest Exhibition ever held in the
Southern Hemisphere. Nearly 60 acres magnificently
planned ... 14 acres of buildings housing startling displays ...
10 acres of exciting Playland ... a thousand attractions to
welcome you to the wonderland of the Pacific. Never before
in the Southern Hemisphere have
there been such scenes .... such
splendour «... such pageantry ....
such fun!
Send to-day for the colourful illus-
trated folder free to the New
Zealand Government Tourist Bureau,
Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane, or to
any travel agency.
To assist those who cannot make their
own plans, accommodation may be
arranged through the Official Accom-
modation Bureau, P.O. Box 544,
Wellington, New Zealand.
mm>
N
1
At WELLINGTON
NEW ZEALAND
November 8, 1939
To May, 1940
m
5
'
w^#vww
BOOK NOW!
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
W.A.S.: You’ve been taking too much notice
of the films N.S.L. and N.S.: Both slight.
D.T.F.: Ugh! A.R.: Incredible
E.J.C.: Scored a grin, but that’s a 11....
A.8.C.: Not that dash of romance F.1.W.:
Not impressed by “The Deciding Factor”....
P M.: Too highly sensational K.E.K.: No
room for stories touching on insanity....
D.R.8.: N0....E.1.: Nicely handled, but we
rarely deal in murders, perfect or imperfect....
J.F.: An impossible sort of person...-S.M.:
“He got an eyeful of the blonde, adjusted his
tie and moving towards her” —fell into the
w.p.b A.C.: Send it to a temperance mag.
. ...J.H.: Can’t think where you’d place “Old
Ferranty,” though it has merit 1.J.C.: Keep
flying L.N.S.: If you must write about
battlefields see, at least, that they relate to
the present war....0.M.: Better suited to a
daily... .W.S.: Don’t want the two gentlemen
who plan smart tactics for their game of
bowls F.W.: An old one G.1.L.: Fic-
tion’s right.. ..8.A.K.: Nearly G.L.P.:
The West is littered with hearts that poets have
left behind them... .T. 8.: Don’t like the idea
of the sun putting on his nightshirt....
R.E.H.: This is no place for waggish verses
about a “Skite” who had “never, never ever
kissed a girl”... .E.D.: Should score elsewhere.
....E.W.K.: Both thin... .R.H.E.: Try “The
Old Rocking Chair” on an antique shop....
M.S.H.: Lightweights M.L.8.: Except for
the feeble joke at the end it’s all a repetition
of the first line S.R., G.E.A., Q. 8., J.L.S.:
Just managed to beat them off H.L.L.: It’s
irresistible:
R.H.L.: We don’t reprint... .P.H.: You’ve
done better... .E.M.0.: Melodrama too highly
flavored for our taste E.A.J.: It’s all very
unimportant... .N. 8.: No death rays, thanks.
N.O.S.: Feeble..C.K,: And everybody
lived happily, etc M.S.H.: Might suit a
women’s mag 0.M.C.: It’s a tract, not a
story.... .J.T.R.: “Make the grade?” Not even
downhill L.C.D.: Just a draught....
R.D.T.: “Fresh Eggs” scrambled in the
basket... .L.R.E.: Not even a glimmer....
R.W.C.: The title was suitable... .H.K.T. Dis-
patched that wild Latin and his pigsticker to
safer regions 8.T.P.: Style not bad, sub-
stance piffle... .G.R.: You’re the 673,933 rd
person who’s discovered Lasseter’s lost reef....
J.S.D.: Plot has been mouldering in literary
graveyards for twenty years G.H.R.: Weak.
8.1.R.: Excused as a first offence.
. ...8.R.A.: Have you ever heard of
punctuation? C.V.C.: Doesn’t make a
yarn... .L.T.M.: So the miner stayed to
watch his charges go off! What are you giving
us? N.E.Y.: Funny in spots, but too
slight... .M.R.D.: You’ve been reading
Treasure Island C.D.: Come again when
you’re not angry C.F.P.: Vague.
H.N.B.: A slight improvement, but still
a long way off N.T.C.: You must have
been pleased to untangle all those strings.
F.J.S.: Wrong address R.D.G.:
Started well, but just tottered to the finish.
. ...C.8.C.: That’s not the way to write any
kind of yarn M.W.P.: It’s more a wish
than a thought N.R.C.: Just a flicker
P.S.W.: No; handwriting will do if it’s legible
and on one side of the paper 0n1y... .F.F.:
Nothing new in any of them D.T.D.: We
suspected it would finish like that
F.A.McN.: Well, “Pageant is by Windbag,”
then. It wasn’t “Pilot’s” slip.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
D.P.L.: Your bathing girls are a striking
warning against the trend towards nudity in
beach fashions E.N.: Don’t let the
R.S.P.C.A. man see those horses T.H.: If
it’s meant to represent a London fog it’s a
fine effort J.P.: Style and gags belong
to a past era... .G.D.: Don’t want miniatures;
call in to see our stock of originals M.N.:
Think you might be better employed as a
bricklayer K.P.S.: Can think of no reason
why you should draw Hitler hiding under a
bed in which are Chamberlain and Stalin.
T.R..: The figures are carefully disguised
under a maze of cross-hatching W.H.: An
echo of a recent “Saturday Evening Post”
drawing... .E.8.A.: Caricatures have merit,
but none of the subjects is of sufficient im-
portance... .M.W.: Send the colored-crayon
fairies to a children’s paper G.L.: You’ve
made a fair effort of the lobster, but the drunk
and his missus never existed... .R.McN.: No,
we don’t print animal studies S.W.: That
“abo.” must have had an African negro for
grandparent H.R.: Long study at a good
art school might help 0.G.: Fashion-draw-
ing seems to be your mark 1.V.L.: Your
picture of Stalin and Hitler in bed arrived the
day after Norman Lindsay’s cartoon was on
the streets... .M.D.: Drawings show promise,
but the gags are a heavy load to carry.
K.H.: Once again, all work must be
original R.N., A. van 0., R.S., T.M.-R.:
A batch of misfits L.M: That scratchy
linework won’t reproduce.
Warsaw saw war was raw
Still sees war, is still Warsaw,
Still alive, not intact but in fact.
Allies, come quick
We’re still Wick,
Inflamed
But not tamed
And not shaqjjed.
Allies! Allon!
Come Along!


*
a
IMS
MK
llililltni/iii,
w;.
M
51 «
•a«u
■a
m
*
£
<s>
Insulate the building in
which you house stock,
poultry, etc. you'll get
healthier conditions and
higher output. Cane-ite,
the white-ant-proofed, non-
sagging, non-warping cane
insulation boards, are the
most inexpensive and high-
ly effective medium for
such profitable insulation.
o City smartness for country bathrooms
and kitchens! Gleaming beauty with
a very practical side to it! With Masonite Tem-
prtile—the non-splintering, non-cracking and won-
derfully durable "tile-effect" board—any intelli-
gent carpenter can transform the walls of kitchen
and bathroom so that they have all the appear-
ance of being expensively tiled. You can have
any colour finish you like . . . and Masonite
Temprtile is as easy to keep clean as if it were
marble. Masonite Temprtile in 4 ft. widths up
to 12 ft. in length is one of "the wonder boards
of 1000 uses" . . . grainless, splinterless, manu-
factured from Australian Timber at the Australian
Masonite Plant. Let the samples tell you their
own story.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Division)*.
Please send me free sample and details of □ MASONITE □ CANE-ITE
NAME.— -
'W^ffvourZe branch: Sydney,JMlbourne^ Adelaide, _ . .^24-9
EYE
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD.. King St„ Sydney
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Empire’s Greatest Landowner
“X.T.”: Queensland Government is the
greatest landowner in the Empire. Of
a total area of 430,000,000 acres, only
28,000,000 acres are alienated —a wide
strip along the coast in the south, a nar-
rower one along the north coast to just
beyond Cooktown, another narrow belt
which runs through the older settlement
area along the south-west railway, a few
patches in the pastoral lands of the far-
west. About 40,000,000 acres, nearly all
in Cape York Peninsula and along the
edges of Carpentaria Gulf and the N.T.
border, are unoccupied. The rest is all
under pastoral, grazing or perpetual lease.
Development is, therefore, orderly and
active. The Lands Administration Board
manages the whole of the Crown land.
It watches and quickly adjusts rents and
areas to conditions, and its record of
work each year is a heartening evidence
that a Government department can be
businesslike and progressive.
Under its modern schemes, develop-
ment of virgin areas for closer settlement
is not as rapid as it has been at times in
past history, but it is methodical, and
leaves little room for failures. In recent
years attention has been concentrated
on putting into use the rich scrub lands
of the North —where population is a de-
fensive as well as an economic asset: last
year on nine rich blocks totalling 74,200
acres from the Eungella Range, behind
Mackay, to the prosperous Daintree, just
south of Cooktown. The process fol-
lowed is survey into farm blocks, re-
moval of valuable timbers so that they
will not be wasted in clearing, and finally
the building of all-weather access roads.
The days when northerners carved their
way into the scrubs and brought their
supplies in on packhorses are over.
In pastoral districts, local small settlers
get-first benefit of resumptions nearest to
them when extra areas are needed.
Nearly 5,000,000 acres of resumed areas
were opened last year.
Established settlers are encouraged to
improve their properties —especially
Crown land —by a series of development
loans, the work being brigaded with un-
employed-relief. Last year 3800 farmers
and graziers borrowed in this way a total
of £665,000 at low interest for ringbark-
ing, scrub-falling, clearing, fencing and
water improvement.
And the graphs of land revenue show'
how the land industries adjust themselves
to conditions. Collections, despite inten-
sive growth of settlement, are lower than
in 1921-22. But, while the board sacri-
fices revenue, it expects in return that
properties shall be steadily improved. In
this way it is building up the assets-value
of Crown holdings. Various pastoral
and grazing holdings have conditions in
their leases which call for progressive im-
provement expenditures totalling about
£1,500,000 and the ringbarking of
2,644,000 acres. Requirements are very
often exceeded. The board's report this
year quotes one instance in which im-
provement covenants for £lO,OOO in three
years have been covered by an expendi-
ture of £lB,OOO in under two years ; an-
other where £lO,OOO has been spent in
two years on a covenant to spend £4400
in five years. Prickly-pear leases subject
to clearing conditions are merging into
ordinary leaseholds so far that, where in
1934 3276 sq. miles were under this
tenure, total pear leaseholds last year were
only 185 sq. miles.
Pear has ceased to be a first-class rural
problem in Queensland.
In all tenures, 1221 new selections were
acquired, totalling 15,805,000 acres—
more than twice the size of Belgium. ■
The roadbuildirig section of the public-
estate improvement had over 800 miles
of access highways under construction
during the year in 24
different areas, run-
ning the whole length
of the State. About
1100 men were em-
ployed.
Not only farm lands
are considered. Every-
thing is done to de-
velop country towns,
and to give each
district its own
metropolis. There
were thirty-eight town
water-supply schemes
and eight sewerage
schemes under way
last year, and stock-
route watering is
going ahead steadily.
Three well - watered
trunk routes 2500
miles .in length are
being developed, one
from Eromanga to
Burketown on the
Gulf, one from
Charleville to Nor-
manton and a third
from Clermont (C.Q.)
to the Gulf, with
bores, tanks and wind-
mills all the way.
Some irrigation facili-
ties are being pro-
vided along rivers.
Forestry is a sub-
department, with one
“It still ain't sweet enough !”
of the board members, trained overseas
—a Rhodes scholar, Victor Grenning—in
charge. It treats natural forests, provides
firebreaks and lookout posts, removes
valuable timber in front of settlement
and attends to replacement. In 1938-39
it planted 6,250,000 new trees.
And it is highly efficient, like the rest
of the board machinery. Crown sales
of mill logs last year totalled 18.6,000,000
super, feet. And the Forestry branch
wastes no chances of developing business. -
I wrote an inquiry the other day about
Queensland timbers, suitable for carving.
The prompt response was a parcel-of 24
samples with a letter describing their
qualities. Service of that sort is rare in
Government departments.
“Dungeness”: A major intellectual
problem in the life of a New Guinea
police recruit is to savvy plenty that
feller gravy. It has nothing to do with
diet or table manners, but arises when
musketry drill and target practice extend
beyond point-blank range. That feller
gravy ’im stop ’long ground, pullem
bullet down all time. No good look ’long
ground. Eye b’long you no can see that
feller gravy, ’im long way down ’long
ground. , Pullem down spear same feller.
Boy want sling spear long way ’im sling-
em up that spear, gravy ’im no catchem.
Boy want bullet go long way ’e slingem
up, that lillyTeller name b’long ’im back-
sight ’im tell that boy how far slingem
up. Thus does a Neolithic mind labori-
ously acquire, absorb and put into prac-
tice a knowledge of gravity and ballistics.
But, in rapid-sung pidgin, gravity remains
gravy,for nearly all.
* * * *
“E.H.M.”: The Tennant isn’t the only
N.T. town in which gold has been dis-
covered in the streets (B. 27/9/’39). In
Darwin years ago color was found at
the bottom of the police station and other
wells, and a reef was noticed careering
through the Residency grounds and com-
ing up for air on Fort Hill. The Admin-
istration sat down hard on attempts to
exploit the find, but there are still old
miners who lick their lips whenever they
look at Fort Hill —a military reserve,
closed to mining.
* * * *
“E.V.”: The Huge Wens may be in
a tangle over their war arrangements, but.
the little towns of the North are taking
the position seriously, and the A.R.P.
meeting has become a feature of northern
life. Even Moresby has made arrange-
ments for the removal of its women and
children in case of need. The shire of
Ingham (N.Q.) is divided into nine zones,
embracing the town itself —population
about 2700—and the rich sugar areas
round Macnade and Victoria Mills and
Halifax, where all chickens are galline
cooked. Sugar barracks (141), schools,
halls and churches have been care-
fully marked out on a map at
headquarters. Tully Shire, where Brice
Henry rules, has gone the whole
hog. Its population of 3000 joined
the other night in complete blackout exer-
cises with siren blasts for warnings. So
that no citizen living on the outskirts to
whom the siren’s call might be drowned
should have an excuse, the electricity was
turned off from the main switch at the
powerhouse. And all the anti-gas forces
turned out, including the fire brigade.
Psychologically, N.Q., with its large
foreign population, is much closer to the
war than the crowded South.
“Tennant”: The A.I.M. "flying-doctor
service gave its farewell broadcast from
Cloncurry (N.Q.) a few days ago. Clon-
curry was its birthplace, but when it
handed over to Aerial Medical. Services
it was operating also from Wyndham,
Port Hedland and Kalgoorlie (W.A.) and
Broken'Hill (N.S.W'.)y and was. on the
verge of opening another branch at Alice
Springs. The change does not mean that
Centralia and. the North will lose the
A.LM. altogether, however.. It will con-
tinue its 1 system- of bush-nursing homes,
patrol padres and its bush children’s
scheme. , ' :.
** : *
“Q.C.R.”: It won’t be long now before
it will be possible to motor in comfort
all the way from Perth to Cairns, thanks
to the final linkage of the Queensland
inland defence road, just started. Forgan
Smith suggested to the Commonwealth
Government that it should run from
Goondiwindi in the N.S.W. border coun-
try to Charters Towers, connecting with
the Bourke-to-Sydney highway, but the
Defence Department preferred some-
thing nearer the sea. Tourists will gain
by this arrangement in point of scenery.
The highway will run up the Brisbane
River, turn off from Esk to Nanango and
go on through the peanut and dairy coun-
try of Kingaroy-Gayndah-Mundubbera
to the mining fields of Cracow and Theo-
dore, thence to Bauhinia Downs, striking
the central' line at Duaringa, 70 miles
west of Rockhampton. I was carried
over the last 200 miles of that bit in a
one-horse dray 41 years ago,-and it took
us two months. From Duaringa the road
will swing inland to Emerald, giving
travellers a glimpse of the best of the
inner west, from there making through
pastoral country to Clermont, finally
arriving at Charters Towers and dropping
over the range to Townsville. The first
sections in the Brisbane Valley are
already under construction. -At many
points along the route, existing roads will
make deviation to the coast easy.
* * * *
“Ente”: Can’t make out why State
Governments don’t follow the fashion of
other civilised countries and encourage
the manufacture of local beverages. In
England you can still get home-brewed
ale, and in Australia in its early days a
lot of moonshining was stopped by appli-
cation of Macquarie’s dictum that it is
cheaper to license a distiller or brewer
than to catch him with an illicit still—
and more profitable, since under the
license system you get the fine out of him
anyway. Go to Turkey, Greece, Japan,
France, Spain, anywhere you like, and
you will find the local fruits and berries
and grains providing the alcohol of the
district. The pineapple and the mango
both make good wines—many a lady of
the old school in the North made a
specialty of her mango sherries, and in
the early days of the Hawkesbury the
peach provided most of the good liqucr
that comforted the original Cornstalks.
With judicious licensing a lot of waste
fruit might be turned to account in the
production of healthy wines. ___


The Richardson Chain Hotel
P-si
m
i mm
; .
ir
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: M 4 14 1 (10 lines).
Are you feeding the best mineral supplement?
offiuL- CxxJL'
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
is the most reliable source of calcium and phosphorus
for sheep, cattle, pigs, etc. It ensures early maturity,
maintains good health and increases production.
Tri-cal-os contains over 70 per cent, tricalcic
phosphate ... it costs the farmer less and goes further.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wrinkles and Skin.
“E.8.L.”: Recent complaints by over-
seas wool manufacturers about the in-
crease of skin in Australian wool would
seem to suggest that the quality of shearing
is deteriorating. The fact is that sheep on
the whole are much harder to shear now
than in former years. A number of
graziers are breeding sheep with more
body wrinkles, woolly faces, bad tails
and neck folds, which make clean shear-
ing difficult. The shearer must ride the
wrinkles or tip them if he keeps the
machine flat on the skin.
In some cases the shearer is at fault.
The habit of leaving a tassel of wool on
the whipping side and plucking it off
instead of using the machines invariably
tears away a small piece of skin.
Another factor which makes for skin
in wool is cutthroat competition. If
a grazier gives his shearing at a cheap
rate, the only chance the contractor has
of making a profit is by employing fast
shearers. Also the number of shed hands
is reduced, with the result that the wool
is not carefully handled, and bits of
skin go into the pieces, broken and fleece
lines. The extra expense of having the
job done properly is more than covered
by a better average price for the whole
clip.
Marketing the Clip.
“Murrawong”: The Central Wool
Committee appointed to handle Aus-
tralia’s war-time clips is starting on a
much better footing than the body which
did the job in 1916-18. It has all the tabu-
lated experience of the previous com-
mittee to build on.
As far as the grower is concerned,
there will be little departure, if any, from
his usual marketing routine. His price
will still depend on evenness in length,
quality and condition. Badly skirted
fleece lots or mixed types are impossible
to type. When two appraisers fail to agree,
the buyer will get the benefit of the doubt.
It is essential, therefore, that every pound
of the clip should be evenly prepared
before it is sent to the broker.
During the last war, such mixed lots
were appraised at a conservative price
per pound which the grower received.
Then the mixed and doubtful lines were
reclassed and reappraised, as a sale
value had to be fixed on them. A large
margin of profit accrued in this way. It
did not all go to the Government, nor to
the owner of the badly-classed wools, but
was divided among all growers.
Mixed bales or badly-classed lots
should be reclassed before appraisement.
If this is not done, the Australian wool-
grower will lose hundreds of thousands
of pounds. Scores of additional ap-
praisers will have to be employed in each
selling centre, the grower will have to
wait longer for his cheque and even then
he will not get the full value of his wool.
In 1922 John Higgins, chairman of
the last Wool Committee, stated that the
annual monetary advantage of recondi-
tioning such lines of the Australian clip
was estimated at £500,000. It is up to
Australian growers of to-day to save that
half-million for themselves. If the owner
can’t prepare his wool at home, he can
arrange with his broker to have it re-
classed before sending it to the show
floor.
Continual Dipping of Sheep.
“Tabulam”: That frequent dipping in
arsenical dips is not injurious to sheep
or damaging to their wool has been
demonstrated in the tick-quarantine areas
of the Upper Clarence (N.S.W.).
Small flocks were dipped at fortnightly
intervals for periods of nine months.
After two years the tip of the wool
samples was, in most instances, rather
wasty, but no unusual weakness of fibre
was observed. The color was remark-
ably good considering that the dips were
not cleaned regularly.
The McMaster Institute submitted the
samples to chemical and microscopic
examination. No evidence was found
that repeated dipping had damaged the
wool or interfered with its dyeing pro-
pensities.
Hide Standards in Maoriland.
“J.W.”: Maoriland has established
a standard for hides and calf-skins which
might well be adopted by the Common-
wealth.
The rules provide that a carcass must
be evenly opened to produce a square-
patterned hide ; that every hide must be
cooled before salting ; that ears, snout,
lower lips, dew
claws, long shanks
and all excess meat
and fat shall be
removed, and that
the hide shall be
evenly trimmed.
Salting must be
done with clean
salt within 24 hours
of skinning. The
hide is then to re-
main in the curing
stacks for not less
than 14 days.
Yearling and
mature skins are
to be drained for
24 hours before
weighing and offer
for sale, calf skins for 48 hours.
In weighing, a 41b. tare will be mini-
mum grading up to 701 b. on ox hides,
then 61b.; the same applies to three
weights of bull hides ; cow hides under
301 b. are rated for 21b. tare, over for
41b. tare. Yearling and calf skins range
from no tare up to s|lb. to 21b. for 171 b.
skins and upwards.
Grading recognises first- and second-
class abattoirs, first and second country
butchers, first and second farmers and
thirds for hides.
First grades in all classes must be free
from holes and gouge defects, from
unhealed gore wofinds or firebrands, and
from damage by tar- or liquid-brand in-
juries or disease damage. Defects within
6in. of belly edge or neck edge are not
counted. Second-grades must be free
from slippiness and from scabs and dis-
ease effects. Thirds are all other hides.
Calf-skin grades are first, second and
third sound, first and second cut, first
and second slippy and damaged. To
reach first grade, the skin must be good
pattern, clean-pelted, free of cuts and
meat and well cured.
The regulations should do a good deal
towards raising quality.
Minor Minerals for Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: In experiments at Wagin
(W.A.) on light sandy soils of compara-
tively low fertility, wheat responded
vigorously to copper sulphate (bluestone),
applied at the rate of 201 b. per acre.
Also, various other minor elements
produced the same response over the
whole of the copper-treated plots.
The 201 b. c.s. section gave the highest
yield—2s.6 bushels —the average for the
plots receiving copper (in combination)
was 23.9 bushels, and the plots with the
copper 20.1 bushels. Copper sulphate
mixed with sulphate of zinc or manganese
caused a general improvement in yields
of grain, and eliminated unevenness
due to soil variation and the develop-
ment of white and empty heads on
gravelly soils.
On a variety of soils in other districts
the outstanding result was the deleterious
effect of zinc sulphate at the rate of 201 b.
per acre. When used in mixtures with
other minor elements, zinc also reduced
yields and caused considerable and severe
shrinkage of the grain, especially in acidic
sandy soils.
The W.A. investigators contrast this
adverse effect with the improved yields
reported from experiment with zinc sul-
phate in the Wimmera (Vic.).
The conclusion was that the use of
minor mineral elements for wheat will
give improved returns only on certain
soil types and under certain conditions.
“Let ’im go before y' ’urt y'self, Ma!"
The Value of Pasture Improvement.
“Ghanam”: Results of recent experi-
ments by the Waite Institute (S.A.) near
Adelaide and Kybibolite point the value
of pasture improvement.
On each area two blocks were laid
down with Wimmera rye and sub. clover
and phalaris tuberosa and sub. clover.
Production was compared with that on
topdressed natural pasture.
The natural pasture carried 1.52
merino wethers per acre over the years
1935-38; the improved pasture blocks
exactly double that number.
The natural pasture produced 36cwt.
dry weight of herbage per acre each
year, the Wimmera and sub. clover
48.51 b. and the phalaris plot 38.91 b. Yet
the comparision of wool output was:
Lb. p.a. Value.
Natural pasture .. .. 20.9 295. 6d.
Wimmera and s.c. .. 41.6 595. lid.
Phalaris and s.c. .. 39.2 565. lid.
It is a pointed illustration of how
little bulk of pasture influences body and
wool growth. It is the nutritive qualities
that count.
Tomato Wilts.
“Wundai”: There is a lot of misunder-
standing about the tomato wilts men-
tioned by several M.O.L. writers lately;
plants may be resistant to one particular
disease and yet susceptible to the others.
There are three types of wilt, and each
has different characteristics.
Bacterial wilt starts with a single leaf,
then spreads. Embryo roots form on
the stems but remain at the nodule stage.
If the stems are cut through, the cut sur-
faces exude a slime and the sap channels
seem to be blackened. Finally, the plant
becomes a rotting mass.
Fusarium wilt, caused by a fungus,
attacks plants of all ages, reaching the
stems from the soil. The wilt itself is
due in the beginning to the failure of
the food supply to the branches and
leaves, which become sickly in color and
droop until the plant dies of dry rot.
Infection may come from the seedbed,
remaining latent till the plant is nearly
mature, but the bulk of it derives from
field soil.
Both these types of wilt should be
handled by preventive measures. Seed-
beds should be composed of virgin or
steam-sterilised soil. Crops should be
rotated where possible—giving seasons
clear of tomato- and potato-planting.
Infection should be watched for, and
when it appears the plant should be
burned. Insects should be carefully con-
trolled. There are a number of tomato


OFFICER’S BOOTS
STANDARD MILITARY PATTERN
45/ ■ Per Pair
• HIGH MILITARY LEG
• HEAVY DOUBLE
SOLE
• WATER - RESISTING
OOZE CALF UPPER
• WAT ERPRO OF
TONGUE
• CAL F-L I N E D
THROUGHOUT
Write for a Catalogue of
our stock of Country
Boots and Shoes.
8942.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St., 224 Pitt St., Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
“ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
li&giggg
.A
«8
SOB
®SVS
wMiWj^fSSfc^
tYSAGHT*
m
ORB
**ar
AUSTRALIA
if
In the manufacture of Galvanized
Iron at the Newcastle and Port
Kembla works of Lysaght’s,
165,000 tons of Australian steel,
16,000 tons of Australian zinc
and 502,000 tons of coal are
directly and indirectly used an-
nually in the production of their
yearly output of 12,000,000 sheets
. . . every sheet carrying Lysaght’s
guarantee.
JOHN LYSAGHT
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Sydney Brisbane Melbourne
Adelaide Fremantle
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
«
m
O
£
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils
and their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or
coal tar derivative. Healing, Soothing, Repellent.
NOT SOLUBLE, THEREFORE CANNOT WASH OUT
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
ENDORSED BY LEADING WOOLGROWERS
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY. LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St.,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
W. R. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St.,
CHIPPENDALE, N. S. WALES.
l7ie fexillelvn,
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It—Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold —Shell Co., 64 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
ķ
m
varieties strongly resistant to fusarium
wilt, but they cannot be guaranteed.
For bronze wilt, the N. S. Wales Agri-
cultural Department has been trying to
find resistant varieties. So far a com-
mercial one has not been discovered.
Some are promising, but all present com-
mercial varieties catch the sickness,
though egg tomatoes seem immune.
Bronze wilt starts usually on the fresh
terminals of young plants. The young
leaves near the ends of the shoots break
out in brown patches. On older leaves
greenish-brown spots appear between the
veins. The spots soon blacken and wither
as if burnt by fire. Fruit develops sink-
ing patches, stems blackish streaks. The
better constitutioned the plant the sooner
it seems to die. Sometimes death takes
days, sometimes weeks. Where the plant
survives it is not unusual for the affected
areas to send out new shoots which seem
disease-free.
All the chances are that bronze wilt is
insect-borne. Its cause is a virus—sap
from a bronze-wilt-sick plant will infect
a clean one; even sap taken on to the
out laterals can
ransfer the disease Seed does not carry
the trouble forward.
The only control measures possible are
to root out affected plants as soon as
disease appears, keep weeds down, keep
off insects with spray—nicotine sulphate
or Bordeaux—and keep plants staked and
well pruned.
Soil Fertility.
“Granova”: The war should provide
wheat-farmers with the opportunity to
restore fertility in their old cultivation
paddocks. While future wheat prices are
uncertain, markets for wool and mutton
are assured.
Unfortunately, in the under-20in.-
rainfall portions of the eastern N.S.W.
wheatbelt permanent pastures are im-
possible, and in these districts oats
will have to provide the bulk of
winter grazing. On small farms, oats
sown for grazing can be ploughed
in when the lambs are sold and
the land sown to wheat the following
year. Oat varieties such as Fulghum
sown in March can be fed olf until
August, and reasonable yields of grain
and hay can be harvested.
Encourage natural clover and sow an
area of lucerne, as legumes are essential
for the building up of old wheat land.
Oats and Wimmera rye make useful pas-
ture, and can be carried on for years by
allowing them to seed and working the
land lightly early in autumn. Early
strains of sub. clover are also worth a
trial.
Merino sheep are no good for grazing
on fodder crops, but Corriedales give
splendid results in the drier wheat areas
—the lambs make good suckers if they
are properly fed, and any surplus sheep
can be fattened and sold to butchers.
They are also very hardy, and will carry
lambs through dry autumns when hard
feeding is necessary. However, Corrie-
dales are difficult to buy, and in some
cases it may be a better proposition to
use merino ewes and long-wool rams.
“Sheepo”: Certainly far too much
wool leaves Australia in its raw state
(B. 20/9/’39). If not as tops, a good deal
more of the clip should be exported
scoured. It would mean increased em-
ployment, and a larger amount of yolk
would be available for chemical needs.
Scoured wool is harder to sort than
greasy, but the objections of buying in-
terests could easily be overcome by
arranging for sorting to be carried out
before scouring. If Bradford so desired
sorters could be sent out to do the work.
“Ghanam”: A. J. Studdy’s Wirindi
stud of Southdowns was founded near
Manilla (N.S.W.) only last year with the
L. P. Duncombe ram Mt. Tamar GaL-
worthy and a small flock of picked ewes
from southern Australian and Maori-
land studs. Afterwards, three M.L. rams
were added. So far Studdy has won 75
ribbons at country shows and sold 150
rams, lambs and ewes.
“Ovis”: There was an all-in rush for
a shipment of English stud mutton-sheep
which reached Melbourne last week. The
consignment was imported by W. R.
Ross, and war delayed their arrival for a
fortnight. When the ship did arrive,
buyers demanded a sale on the wharf,
but quarantine regulations forbade.
However, one Dorset Horn which won
the English Centennial Show champion-
ship was traded to Alleyns, of Wagga
(N.S.W.), for 250 guineas, and a South-
down ram was bought at the same figure
by Nancy Austin, of Two Hills, Yea
(Vic.). A syndicate from the Vic.
Western District is negotiating for a
Border Leicester ram for which 250
guineas was refused. The remainder will
be sold privately when they are out of
quarantine. There will be no more stud
imports till the war is over.
“Ghanam”: For the fourth year in
succession Australia and Maoriland be-
tween them will have over 4,000,000 bales
of wool to sell. In 20 years sheep
numbers in Australia have increased from
89,000,000 to 108,000,000 last year—
they reached their peak at 113,000,000 in
1937, but drought brought the numbers
down. In the same period, the M.L. in-
crease has been from 23,000,000 to
32,000,000. Wool output has doubled.
On N. S. Wales figures, estimates for
this season’s clip should be comfortably
exceeded. Graziers’ Co-op. estimates that
in 94 sheds which have been surveyed
1,433,000 sheep will be shorn against
1,377,000 last year, and the yield will
be 12,913,0001 b. against 10,463,0001 b.
Generally speaking, wool is much heavier
in condition than last year.
“Melba 99”: F. W. Johnston’s
Baerami Jersey stud, on the Hunter River
(N.S.W.), has produced its second 10001 b.
butter cow this year —the six-year-old
Macquarie Laurette. She produced
17,1721 b. milk and 928.591 b. fat, yielding
1132.421 b. commercial butter. The other
record-breaker, Oaklands Mildred, made
10731 b. butter. A third, which should
have managed the feat, died of snake-
bite. Johnston has 30 acres of irrigated
lucerne as a reserve for 50 milkers. His
record-breakers were all bought as calves
for £5 a head at a sale at Ingleburn.
“Zedo”:. The new wheat scheme will
create a strong demand for airtight tanks
for farm wheat storage. Ready-cut re-
ceptacles capable of holding 1000 bushels
can be had in the eastern States for about
£30 —£5 higher than the price of
8000-gallon galvanised water-tanks.
Storage at 7d. per bushel sounds pretty
heavy, but it may be cheaper than no
storage.
“Zedo”: Charcoal-gas units are be-
coming popular on N. S. Wales wheat-
farms, and the Agricultural Department
was recently able to collate the budgets
of 15 owners. Average costs working on
a full tractor load for a 10-hour day gave
6s. 6|d. for charcoal, compared with
255. Id. for kerosene. Oil with kerosene
working panned out at 4s. 4d., with char-
coal at Is. 6d. Charcoal, therefore, cost
21s. 4|d. less than kerosene. Charcoal
cost was reckoned at Is. 3d. per bag,
within 200 miles of burning plant, kero-
sene at Is. to Is. 3d. per gallon and
oil at ss. 4d. per gallon. One of the
experimenters claims that he and one
man can burn and sieve charcoal for 80
hours’ running in \\ days. The picture
is not all rosy. Charcoal is not a clean
fuel, the plant is bulky, and with normal
cylinder bore considerable power is lost.
On the other hand, charcoal plants are
simple to operate, there is less fear of
overheating an idling engine, and, gener-
ally speaking, engines run more silkily
and coolly than on kerosene and give off
no fumes.
“Canbelego”: Mitchell grass is grow-
ing luxuriantly in the far north-west
and west of N.S.W. following good rains.
Though usually a black-soil grass, it is
growing well on red soil around White
Cliffs. In the Milparinka and Tiboo-
burra districts Mitchell is growing strongly
in association with white lilac —a legume
which resembles purple vetch. Saltbush,
bluebush, crowfoot, copper burr, dan-
thonia, panic and love grass are all pro-
viding a great bulk of feed in the N.S.W.
west, where the rainfall to mid-Septem-
ber exceeded 20in., compared with the
average of about 6in. Spear grass is
very prevalent along stock routes.
Menindie clover grows well on low
country where there is any moisture —
with Mitchell it makes a good balanced
ration.
“Murphy”: Youngsters down around
Tumbarumba (N.S.W.) are putting their
elders to shame in the production of
potatoes. Young Jim Burgess won the
district junior open and reserve cham-
pionships with a total yield off 2\ acres
of 33| tons —£800 worth by last week's
Sydney market rates. He also turned over
one plot which won the State junior
championship with 15 tons to the acre.
Another youngster got an estimated out-
put of 15 tons 16cwt. to the acre, and
another 11 tons 6cwt. The average yield
per acre in the Commonwealth is under
2.5 tons —the lowest in the world. Some
European countries average eight to nine
tons. Their soil is no better than ours,
but they are lavish with one of the most
important ingredients of potato-growing
success —hard yakka.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Hitherto there has been a weekly prize of £3 35., plus space rates; and all other
letters printed have been paid for.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4ld. per line;
all others at 2 id. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published are not disqualified.
A strong plea for the drinking, in decent surroundings, of Australian beverage
wines—so highly praised by foreigners and by such travelled British writers as
J. H. Curie and Tom Clarke —earns a South Australian pride of place this week.
We Drink Like Cattle
Recently we celebrated Wine Week.
We were already supposed to know that
we produce some of the best wine in
the world, but during Wine Week extra
space was given to the subject in the
newspapers, and informative talks were
delivered over the air. This sort of thing
is all to the good, but it seems to me
to be a pity that such efforts to bolster
up the industry should ever be necessary.
Omar wondered “what the vintners
buy one-half so precious as the goods
they sell.” In England, where the climate
prevents the growing of vines, wine holds
a high and honored place among the
attributes of civilisation, and fortunes are
made in importing it from foreign shores.
Poets, connoisseurs, epicures, gourmets
and good-livers alike have sung its praises
from time immemorial—and justly so.
But what of the status of wine in this
country? Vintage wines are sold at
hotels at ss. per bottle, “pinky” at a fifth
of that sum. And the latter has the
readiest sale.
The fact is that wine-drinking is looked
upon askance by the majority of people
in Australia. They associate it almost
invariably with pinky-swilling. For it io
be known that one drinks wine is almost
to be stigmatised as some form of sot
or debauchee. This fact was demon-
strated to me only the other day,'when
I went to buy a bottle of wine at a
hotel. The publican knows me as a
moderate beer-drinker during the day-
time —his knowledge of my tastes in
drinks after 6 p.m. is, owing to our glori-
ous licensing laws, nil. Usually I get my
wine at wholesale rates from distributors,
but on this occasion I was right out, so
asked for a bottle. The publican said
to me, “Good Lord! Are you a Wyan-
dotte?”
I thought that that remark epito-
mised the whole attitude of the average
Australian to anyone who enjoys what
should be one of her proudest and most
esteemed products. He is considered a
“Wyandotte,” a name given to the most
depraved type of dipsomaniac who, as
I happen to know, would spurn a vintage
wine as having no “kick.”
The fact is—and we cannot escape it
—that we have been educated to drink
like "cattle, and we drink like cattle. We
line up on our hind legs to drink at the
trough, where more civilised folk drink
sitting down. In my own experience I
have heard a perfectly decent fellow
say when the common bar has been over-
crowded, “I’m not going into the lounge
to have a drink —I’d feel like a pansy.”
This perpendicular imbibing, taken in
conjunction with our execrable licensing
laws, is the curse of what should be one
of the most pleasant amenities of life. —
Nunc Est Bibendum (S.A.).
Name and address: R. F. Fairbrother,
Bordertown, S.A.
Aliens Should Do Their Part
It is pleasing to note that militia units
are being formed in Queensland in prepa-
ration for possible emergencies, but as
a result of inquiries I have gathered that
nothing is being done to enlist the
services of the numerous aliens in our
midst. These aliens in many cases are
already benefiting from the increased
price of sugar consequent upon condi-
tions overseas. The same applies to
mining.
I would suggest that all able-bodied
aliens should (in addition to being re-
quired to report to the authorities at
stated intervals) be called upon to work
on the projected defence road to tra-
verse a long route in Queensland. This
and other roads are of national impor-
tance, and there is urgent need for
speeding-up the construction of them.
As we cannot very well expect aliens to
shoulder arms in defence of our
country, we can make use of them from
a defence point of view in constructing
roads and performing other essential
services.
British canegrowers and miners who
enlist will be obliged to make the best
arrangements for the working of their
farms and mines during their absence.
The aliens would have to submit to the
same conditions and difficulties, other-
wise our industries would surely pass
right out of the hands of Britishers.
This should not be countenanced in
any circumstances.
The majority of the aliens here are
enterprising, and are deserving of credit
in that respect, but that is not a
sufficient reason for allowing our own
race to be crushed out of business. —
C.C. B. (N.Q.).
Aussies of German Descent
Hohndorf is a group settlement of
farmers of German descent in Australia.
For 100 years the people of Hohndorf
have been trying to be Australians, and
the third generation born here is grow-
ing up as completely Australian as it is
possible to be. But Hohndorf is now
under a cloud, and hysterical women in
the near-by town are shuddering at the
prospect of what those “awful Germans”
might do to them.
Old Grandad Schultz can hardly re-
member when he left Germany as a
young man who wanted the liberty he
could find only in a British country, but
he remembers clearly that he was in-
terned as an enemy alien in the last war
and trembles at the prospect of its hap-
pening again. He hopes that the authori-
ties will remember that he lost a son at
Gallipoli and fears that he might lose
some of his grandsons this time.
His son, William J. Schultz, is a promi-
nent man in the district. Everybody has
long respected him for his honesty, in-
dustry and public spirit. His credit is
good with every businessman in the town
and bank managers hold him up as an
example. He is a member of the shire
council, the “Show” committee and a
dozen other bodies, and wants to carry
on just like any other good Australian.
Sometimes, however, vague little things
happen in the attitude of people he meets,
especially if he states his views forcibly
(as he has always done) when acting on
one of his committees. He is beginning
to think that it might be advisable to re-
sign while the war is on, but hates the
idea because he never was a quitter, and
because it would amount to an admission
that, after all, he is not just the same as
his fellow-Australians. He is worried too
about his children.
Fred and Arthur are of military age
and members of the Light Horse militia.
Fine, big, upstanding young fellows, as
willing to fight for their country as any-
one. Fred is married and has a couple of
lovely kiddies, who don’t know enough
to worry about the war, but are outraged
because some children in the town called
them “Germans.”
It is the same with every other family
in Hohndorf. They hate the ways of
Hitler the same as everyone else, but they
have an additional fierce resentment —
Hitler has made it hard for them to go
on being just like other Australians. —
E. and O. (N.S.W.).
Australia Prepares
The president of our shire council
called a meeting in connection with the
National Emergency services. I attended.
We had the scheme explained to us by
a young man from the city. Among
other things he mentioned that there
was enough red-tape to send one to an
early grave. We learned also that the
Government is tackling the problem in
a very efficient manner—blue forms to
be filled in by men, pink by women.
A local-government official got up and
asked some questions. He informed the
meeting that when first he encountered
the proposals he considered the whole
thing a farce. But not now. He then
went on to explain to the meeting that
“decontamination” really meant “cleaning
up the mess.” Diggers present could have
told him otherwise. However, said official
was appointed warden for the town.
Questions were invited, but one —from
an old Digger, slightly blotto —was not
answered. It was, “Are the heads of
the town going to be the wardens, and
the others do the work?” Rather un-
necessary, I thought.
“Application to enrol” forms were dis-
tributed, but how many enrolled I don’t
know. Advance Australia! — The Tin
Hat (N.S.W.).
Ploughs AND Rifles
The suggestion of “Celt” (B. 27/9/’39)
would be more practicable if several
divisions of soldier-colonists were to be
recruited. They could be trained both
in the use of arms and the ways of agri-
culture, and then distributed over the
Commonwealth to hold strategic posi-
tions and to develop the agricultural
resources of surrounding country. These
would become military settlements in
the same way as at Port Essington more
than a hundred years ago.
In that way the Romans colonised
Britain, the soldiers being part-time
agriculturists. It would be an excellent
opportunity for giving hundreds of
young Australians, otherwise without
anchorage of any sort, a stake in the
country. At least they would have so
much to fight for.
The idea that military camps must be
near a city is absurd. If new camps
are to be constructed, why not in the
bush? Rural development, production
and defence could all be linked together
—if we had politicians with some faint
glimmering of vision.— Geedee (N.S.W.).
Waste
No one in Australia appears to have
given any attention to prevention of
waste during the war. Anything that can
be melted down, pulped or distilled into
some useful product is worth saving.
Thousands of tons of potential raw
materials are dumped or incinerated
every year, and the garbge tin and rub-
bish dumps are sources of wealth.
Old tins, toothpaste- and shaving-
cream-tubes, discarded saucepans, to say
nothing of broken or obsolete
machinery, represent valuable metals of
which the nation may easily run short.
Rags, old papers and cardboard car-
tons can be pulped and, possibly, used
for such things as machine-gun cartridge
belts, as well as serving other purposes.
Vegetable matter and scraps of meat and
bone could be converted into fertilisers.
The list is endless.
Although there may be no shortage
yet, immediate prevention of waste may
help many of our industries to continue
operations.— Jayem (N.S.W.).
Women and the War
I have viewed with amazement for the
past few. weeks the response women are
giving to their country’s call. Hundreds
of them at the outbreak of this war, even
weeks before, flocked to enlist as V.S.Ds.,
as ambulance drivers —in fact, as any-
thing that offered.
I have watched as they drilled in their
ugly costumes on the parade ground, seen
them give up one Saturday afternoon
after another to learn to drive, seen
selfish and ordinarily self-centred women
sacrifice two or three evenings a week to
attend lectures, seen ordinarily nervous
and timid women spend a whole week in
public hospitals to become what they
called “hardened.”
Meanwhile everyone nods his head ap-
provingly and says “Wonderful for'
women to be so eager to do their bit.”
But is it? Are they really more patriotic
than men?
In peace-time I find women almost
heartbreakingly apathetic when it comes
to solving the difficulties that beset their
own sisterhood. Try to interest them in
the appalling conditions of some of our
free maternity homes, in the high birth
mortality, in the high percentage of abor-
tions, or in the divorce laws that are so
inadequate. Do they fly to the colors
then?
I’m sure if the army were composed
of women instead of the stronger sex our
patriotic volunteers would be a very small
percentage of the female population.—-
Audrey F. Francis (S.A.).
Sporting Women
Sport for girls and women is considered
essential for their happiness these days.
Yet is it really as important as we are
led to believe?
Many sport devotees become selfish
and uninteresting as they grow older,
one of the reasons being that they are so
much occupied with physical exertion
that they have neither the time nor energy
to stimulate and develop their mental
faculties. The bogey of old age has many
terrors for them.
Love of sport leads to expense, dis-
cord, strained nerves and neglected duties
in many homes. Wives, eager to hurry
off to games, scramble through their
work feeling like martyrs all the time,
and, tired before they start their play,
return home weary and irritable.
The children of sporting women are
a problem. Their week-ends are rather
lonely affairs, during which they are left
to their own devices or inflicted upon
elderly friends or hired helps. They are
somewhat neglected youngsters.
Sporting invalids are another type.
These women are really not strong
enough to do useful work of any kind,
yet they have enough vitality to enjoy
strenuous games and, indeed, often
secure trophies for their prowess. They
are too delicate to wield a broom, but
they can swing a racquet with gusto. They
would die from exhaustion if they had
to run in and out to a clothesline a few
times once a week, yet they can tramp
round links without fatigue. They are
usually blest with long-suffering hus-
bands.
Sport for women is splendid in modera-
tion. But when it threatens to become a
fetish (as it does with many) it deserves
to be ranked as one of our modern social
evils. —P. R. (Vic.).
Easily Duped
We haven’t heard so much from these
fiery youths of ours on this page since
the youth of Germany, by their blind
adoration of an elderly housepainter with
the gift of the gab, have helped plunge
the world into its second great catas-
trophe within 25 years.
Perhaps those who rose in defence of
youth when it was belittled here some
time ago, being able to think, have
realised that it is young Germany that has
been taken in by a dictator who had no
children of his own, and sold the idea
that he can lead them to glory. Old
Germany, having fathered these auto-
matons in a time when blood, wounds,
starvation and other evils stalked the
earth, knows full well that the glory is
a sham, and the Fuhrer an angel of death.
Before international soolers got to work
in the last year or so of the always-shaky
peace, the world was flooded with anti-
war literature. Good, bad and indifferent
writers set out to show the young how
horrible, futile and degrading a thing was
war. There was no need to tell the old
—they knew! I’m not saying that youth
in Australia, Britain and other liberal
countries glorified war; I know they
didn’t, and I respect their bravery in
going in to this one so readily in defence
of their ideals.
But if Hitler is to blame, so is the
youth of Germany which follows him so
blindly. Perhaps it is just as well that
in the “democratic” countries the fire of
youth is kept in check by older, more ex-
perienced heads who were once young
themselves, and who know that a youth-
ridden world would be something like a
Nazified one. — Not Forty (N.S.W.).
“Sins” of Pioneers
“Eureka” (B. 20/9/’39) looks with a
jaundiced eye on the doings of our
pioneers. He mentions the destroying of
valuable timber without regard for those
who followed. How, in fortune’s name,
did those men, facing privations of all
kinds, know that others would be stout-
hearted enough to follow? And how
could any man cultivate thickly-timbered
country? The pioneers cultivated and
grew crops in isolated parts, and if they
could not sell the produce they could at
least keep their families from starving
without assistance from the Government.
As for destroying valuable timber, I
should like to take “E.” for a walk
through a certain scrub. There he would
see hundreds of feet of pine lying rotting
just because the tops or butts of the
trees were an inconvenient length, size
or shape for milling. The pioneers were
not responsible for this. —Miss X (Q.).
Milk and Cleanliness
Though the milk vendor is harassed
with a thousand regulations and an army
of inspectors, the main source of con-
taminated milk does not come from the
dairy. Most dairymen, for their own pro-
tection, insist on scrupulous cleanliness
—it’s part of their job and as natural
action with them as washing their own
faces.
What about these inspector fellows
earning their money by inspecting the
cleanliness, or the lack of it, of the tins,
jugs, billycans and what-nots which the
householder puts out to receive the milk?
Lately, and for some months, I’ve been
delivering milk, and the shocking condi-
tion of the majority of the receptacles has


astounded me. An open billy, with a
dog or a cat sleeping within easy reach,
is a common thing, and I’ll swear that
less than one in five employs clean
methods, let alone hygienic ones. When I
flash the torch into a jug I’m not sur-
prised to see a ring of sour milk at the
bottom of it —ants, dust and other rub-
bish are there as often as not.
Once I tried clean methods —I was so
disgusted with the filth of a jug that I
washed it at a near-by tap. Immediately
a window opened and “Ah! I caught
yer! Puttin’ water in it, are yer?”
The milk I deliver is pure, and if the
householder likes to swill with the pigs
he can have it his own way. But I have
a heap of things to tell the first inspector
who lodges a complaint with me. —
Milko (Q.).
A.B.C.
I don’t begrudge the A.B.C. my 21s ,
mainly because I can get reasonable en-
tertainment and information without
being told that I have bad breath, am
about to die from constipation, or that
my tonsils will be ruined unless I use
someone’s cigarettes. Further, I find that
my wife likes listening without being told
that the reason she burns the porridge is
because she doesn’t use someone’s oats
(which she does) or that her last chance
of buying new linen is between 9 and 10
on Thursday. We both think it well
worth less than a penny a day to be
spared these intrusions in our home —we
don’t object to advertisements in news-
papers, because we can skip them if we
wish to, or study them when in the mood.
Then we think the A.B.C. gives us re-
markable value for little more than three
farthings a day. We get most of the
essential news which would cost us 3d. a
day for one morning and one evening
paper—in fact, it enables us to cut out
the evening paper cheerfully, so that the
A.B.C. really saves us a day (a gain
of fd.). Every now and then it gives us
concerts by such as Brownlee, Eileen
Joyce and Marjorie Lawrence —Aus-
tralians who are worth a bob or two of
anyone’s money. And the Harmonists,
Lehmann, Tauber, Schnabel and the
dozens of foreign celebrities do improve
one’s standard of appreciation however
much The Bulletin barracks for the
local product.
If I don’t want to listen to Professor
Roberts I can switch off without loss,
but I would pay a zack as willingly for
Dr. Milliken or Professor Dakin as I
would for my Bulletin. And there are
others, too, so that even for talks I think
I would honestly claim to owe the A.B.C.
as much as I owe The Bulletin. The
kids seem to like the kids’ session, and
the bigger kids like Harry Bloom’s band.
All things considered, I say that I
would willingly pay the A.B.C. the five
bob a year less than I pay for The Bul-
letin for ( a ) the talks I listen to ( b ) the
music I listen to, (c) the news I listen
to and ( d) the rest of the stuff I and the
the family listen to.
If, therefore, I am to be honest, I
should pay the A.B.C. four guineas a
year. They give me this for a guinea,
plus a whole lot of tripe I don’t want,
but which I presume someone else wants
—bookies and punters, for example.
Therefore I don’t moan and I don’t think
The Bulletin should moan, because if ; t
is honest it cannot seriously maintain
that the A.B.C. gives less for its 21s. a
year than The Bully does for 265. a year.
But The Bully will prove itself more
broadminded than the A.B.C. if it
publishes this because I know
darned well that the A.B.C. wouldn’t
broadcast a similar defence of The
Bully. — Garetlod (N.S.W.).
A Queer Economy
One cultural service that the A.B.C.
did give for our guinea was to broadcast
lessons in foreign languages. But now —
September, 1939 —a request for its Ger-
man booklet has brought the Com-
mission’s regrets that, “owing to the inter-
national situation, the German session
has been cancelled.”
The fact is that this session was run by
Dr. Gerhard Neumann, German lecturer
at Sydney Teachers’ College, who is now,
according to the N.S.W. Parliament, “in
a place where he can do no harm.”
Apparently “the international situation”
is here merely a euphemism for “the in-
ternment of our lecturer.”
But why should the loss of one lecturer
cancel the entire session? Is no one else
in all. Australia capable of teaching Ger-
man over the air? Or are we expected
to drop all study of German “for the
duration”? The first proposition is so
much rot, and the second is manifestly
silly —ignorance of an enemy’s language
neither helps to win a war nor to make
a peace.—A. C. C. (Vic.).
Reduction for Quantities
Why is it that the poorer you are the
more you pay for the necessities of life?
A man with money can buy his goods
in large quantities and get a substantial
reduction, while the basic-wage earner
has to buy in small quantities without any
cut in price.
In every shop you see such things as
“potatoes, 3d. per pound or 12 pounds
for 2s. 6d.” ; “firewood, Is. 9d. per cwt.
or £1 per ton,” and everything else simi-
larly reduced for larger quantities.
Of course, selling in large quantities
means less handling; but that doesn’t do
away with the fact that it gives an unfair
discount to the man who least needs it.
There should be a fixed price to make it
fair for rich and poor alike.—W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
Married Men or Youths?
In other countries, all fit men are re-
quired to serve the nation. In Australia,
the young single man is picked as the
first line of defence.
Why should that be so? The married
man has lived his life to the full, has
children to carry on his name. Is it not
his place to defend those children?
The boy has had no experience of life.
Young, physically perfect (or he wouldn’t
be accepted), morally advanced (or he
wouldn’t be enlisting), he is the type the
nation needs to be father of the coming
generation.
The country that sends all its young
single men to war is bound to degenerate.
The physical and moral weaklings are
left to populate the nation, with a corre-
sponding fall in the quality of its children.
The married man, having experience of
life, is better fitted than the boy to stand
the perils and temptations that go with
war. Why should he send untried lads
into positions where their inexperience
would lead them into danger?
Give youth a chance, I say, and let the
older men be the first line of defence. —
Arev (Vic.).
Politicians and Employers
When a car runs over a duck, your
sympathies depend on whether it is your
car or your duck, and when the question
arises whether employers should make up
the difference in the pay of volunteers
while in camp, a lot depends on whether
you are the employer or the volunteer, or
whether you are a highly-paid politician
without a business and without em-
ployees.
To thousands of small employers the
extra outlay involved would be a crip-
pling addition to their costs of produc-
tion and an unfair handicap in compet-
ing with other firms with fewer or per-
haps no volunteers on their payroll.
To single out individual citizens and
demand from them contributions toward
the upkeep of our defence forces is
neither sound law nor sound ecdnomics.
To back up the demand with threats of
blacklists and boycotts is the reverse of
democratic. If our soldiers are worthy
of their hire, let them be paid in cash
by the Commonwealth and not in charity
extracted from the pockets of those who
are trying to carry on business as usual
under difficulties.
A demand that all politicians “volun-
tarily” sacrifice a portion of their salaries
for the duration would be very unpopu-
lar among all parties, and if the demand
were enforced by a blacklist or boycott
it would be condemned as an example of
mob rule or Communism.
“Stand-and-deliver” tactics would in-
fluence employers to curtail their staffs
or to employ only female labor that is
not liable to be called up. — Auntie
Soviet (S.A.).
An Obvious Futility
It took a war with Germany to demon-
strate the appalling futility of our State
Parliaments. With the Commonwealth
loading the people with a huge war
budget, the biggest of the six encum-
brances announced heavily increased
taxation for its own affairs, and its Trea-
surer had the face to blame the Com-
monwealth because it had cut down on
grants. If the Federal Government can
run a war, surely it can run a country
without the hindrance and expense of
six other Governments. 10/8/1900
(N.S.W.).
The Southern Front
Slinging handfuls of mullock has never
solved a single economic problem; in
fact, it often helps to confuse the issue
at stake. I refer to the thoughtless army
of “Pro Bono Publicos,” “Citizens,”
“Patriots” and the entire crew of Ex-
This and Ex-That that never fails to come
out like a public fester in any emergency.
Their letters (not paid for) are to be read
in the columns of any “great daily,” and
the range of their lay knowledge is tre-
mendous.
A typical day’s spate of this correspon-
dence included advice on how to peel
potatoes, win the war, deal with sots*
pay the militia, prevent the intimidation
of aliens, promote same, pray,
country. Here is a choice titbit: “All
foreigners should be compelled to wear
a badge denoting their nationality, these
to be purchased from the Government.”
An inherent weakness of democratic
rule is that it has no machinery with
which to put down the public nuisance
who abuses the liberty of free ex-
pression by spouting roaring nonsense.
“Maximum efficiency” means, primarily,
the doing of one’s own job to the best of
one’s ability, a necessary prerequisite
to which is the minding of one’s own
business.
The ultra-censorious attitude justifies
the contention that a man is only as big
as the things that annoy him. Common-
sense is at a premium at the best of
times; freely-given criticism is usually
easily come by.— Celt (N.S.W.).
Aliens and Australians
There is something seriously wrong
with a system that permits an army of
70,000 aliens to be wandering at sweet
will over the latitude and longitude of
Australia.
In one issue of the Sydney “Herald”
there were the names of 20 aliens mak-
ing zero-hour application for naturalisa-
tion. Some of them have been resident
in Australia 24, 25 and 26 years! A
system that permits this state of affairs is
as rotten as a last year’s egg.
Every Australian claiming manhood
has, under a 40-bob fine, to register as
an elector. Further, if the person moves
from one dwelling to another in the same
street he or she must inform the electoral
authorities of the move. Again, there
is a fine for non-compliance. I take it,
then, the alien is “sitting pretty” by not
becoming naturalised, and he has the
glorious advantage and satisfaction of not
having to vote for any political go-getter
of the moment. — Aussie (N.S.W.).
Partition
Although the greedy partition of
Poland may be maintained in the face
of Allied determination to restore that
luckless country, the unholy invaders will
find that there is more in subjugating a
country than marching into it. Germany,
in particular, is not going to find it easy.
Dominating as the Prussian may be,
there is something in the Polish make-up
which cannot be Prussianised. Perhaps it
is that intensely patriotic fervor which
welded Polish nationals together, al-
though their country was split in three
and ceased, politically, to exist for more
than a century. Whatever the reason,
the German, during his hundred years of
domination, found to his cost that the
Pole could not be made to see the great
benefits accruing to him under German
rule.
So little progress was made in German-
ising the Pole that the Prussian Govern-
ment was compelled to pass laws for-
bidding German officials to marry Polish
women. Experience taught them that
such marriages resulted in the German’s
succumbing to the Polish influence, and
that the children in such cases grew up,
not as Germans but as decided Poles.
The history of the Polish nation has
been a long story of rebellion against
the oppressor, and there seems no reason
to believe that the Pole has become
“effete.” It is quite on the cards that
Hitler, even if he succeeds in “leading”
Germany to victory, will find himself
faced with the determined opposition of
the rebellious Poles.
There is also the possibility that Com-
rade Joe is a better, and wilier, student
of history than his pal Adolf. It would
be superbly ironical to find the Red
Army swarming into Germany to protect
their brothers, the Polish minority!
Nairb (Vic.).
These Critics
Things haven’t changed greatly since
Lawson penned his pungent satire, To
My Cultured Critics. These days, for
every man of action there is a multitude
of fireside critics. Constructive criticism
is a necessity to anyone who wishes to
reach the top in any of the professions
or realms of sport; but there is little of
that.
Every book-reviewer in the Common-
wealth piously hopes that one day “the
great Australian novel” will be written,
but it is doubtful whether these worthy
gentlemen will be able to recognise it
when it comes to light. Meanwhile, they
themselves, by being unduly harsh in
their criticism of unknown writers’
works, are postponing the event. It
would be enlightening for the general
reader to know how many successful
books these literary critics themselves
have written, and what serious contribu-
tions they have made to the building up
of Australian literature.
Nowhere else is unwarranted criticism
at such a premium as in the world of
sport. When a man’s sporting prowess
has waned more often than not he
launches out as a commentator. Despite
the impressive list of shattered records
that modern athletes have to their credit,
these pessimists insist that all sport is
decadent, and that sportsmen of to-day
would cut a very poor figure if matched
against the champions of the past.
After all, it is well for the novice to
remember that any criticism is only one
man’s point of view. Even though that
man’s opinion may be bolstered up by
appearing in the pages of the widely
circulating newspapers and journals, it is
no guarantee that he is competent to
express a fair and worth-while opinion
of the subject.— Paton (Vic.).
Local Color?
It is not necessary to know any particu-
lar sphere of life intimately to write well
about it, as Janet Nelson argues (B.
30/8/ ’39).
A bedridden woman in England, a
cripple almost from childhood, wrote
many notable American romances
“which, from the point of view of inti-
mate detail, reveal scarcely a single error.”
Sax Rohmer, the creator of Fu-Manchu,
most of whose novels have a Far Eastern
setting—is a Londoner with no first-hand
knowledge of the scenes he writes of.
Magnificent descriptions of West
Indian and South American scenery are
a feature of Charles Kingsley’s classic,
Westward Ho, yet Kingsley never saw
the scenes he pictured so vividly till
several years after he had written the
book. W. H. G. Kingston, one of the
world’s greatest writers of sea stories, was
never a sailor, nor did he travel exten-
sively on the sea, yet his stories cover
practically the whole world. J. M. Bal-
lantyne, author of that boys’ classic The
Coral Island, never saw a Pacific islet.
Henry Handel Richardson, whose
Fortunes of Richard Mahony is con-
sidered by some to be Australia’s greatest
novel, left Australia as a young woman
to study music in Vienna, and later mar-
ried a London professor. As far as the
writer is aware, she has never revisited
Australia. The setting of much of
Richard Mahony is the Victorian gold-
fields in the “roaring days.”
So there is no reason why anyone
“whose geographical boundaries are to
be found in a King’s Cross flat” should
not write convincing stories of outback
Australia. —Den (N.S.W.).
Australians and Their Literature
With general opinions I know not how
I stand, but I hold that C. J. Dennis’s
Glugs of Gosh is a key to a wholesome
philosophy of life no less than The Senti-
mental Bloke. We quote Shakspeare
without knowing it in common tags of
conversation. Hardly ever do we see
tags of our own literature used even in
Australian publications. Is it because
they are not known and appreciated?
In The Glugs of Gosh Dennis created
the character “Joi.” Is he not our ideal
of a citizen? A man with a keen critical
observation, reaching to the enduring
matrix of nature, feeling his responsi-
bility, yet free. Joi, with the complement
of a cottage in the hills and the little red
dog, is happy in himself with Emily
Anne.
While we rant about “rural move-
ments” the country is being depopulated
for the towns. We growl amongst our-
selves about “social injustice” in the in-
dustrial system, and meanwhile offer no-
thing positive in its place. Eventually,
when an Australian feeling forges an
Australian culture, it must be based on
the recognition of man as he is: man
with his hungry hopes and appetites that
demand some satisfaction; “man” that
we work, or don’t work, with every day.
Dennis has contributed, I claim, a
hopeful and consistent philosophy of life
that will stand the test.
He laughs also at the stock illusions
which mankind has always cultivated.
We recognise climbing ambition at “the
snufflebust palm,” and can spare a grin
for “the feasible dog.” Dennis and Law-
son depict ideals and actualities of Aus-
tralian life, and to Australian ears they
ring true.
It is our own land they are portraying.
Their gospel fits us in every mood, and
realising its import we must laugh our
way forward as a nation.
MIKE
(N.S.W.),


“The key to a man’s Career” — Dr. F. W. Norwood, D.D.
“The results endure
m
Sir Herbert Barker.
“I am convinced that
benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who
will follow the
directions given in
the Pelman Course.
It is impossible to
speak too highly
of it.”
The Baroness Orczy.
“ Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference be-
tween a life of
mediocrity and dis-
appointment and
one of prosperity
and triumph.”
£
Canon Hannay,
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is not
for the elect few
only, but is valuable
to all men and
women ... the re-
sults endure. Cer-
tain habits of mind
are formed which
are of the very high-
est value in life.”
Dr. I l '. W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelraanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would' save any life
from futility. It
teaches that man
has the key to his
own career.”
Sir Arthur Quiiler-
Couch.
“I say, without
hesitation, that the
Pelman Course gave
me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in
youth, would have
saved me more time
and labor than I
can reckon.”
m-
mm
Dame Sybil
TliorndiJke.
“Pelmanism, I am
convinced, is the
‘Open Sesame’ that
smoothes away all
difficulties, giving
a mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them
rightly ”
Lord Baden Powell.
“I feel that no man
—no matter how
educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession who
seriously takes up
the Course, can go
through it without
improving himself.’"
COURAGE
and
PURPOSE
defined and affirmed.
COURAGE, firmness of spirit
and swell of soul in the face
of danger and difficulty.
PURPOSE, the inspiration to
effort, developing character
and increasing courage by
enlargement of confidence.
The following extracts are from
letters published in “The Efficient
Mind,” copies of which are
posted free: —
“I have become * much stronger in
Will Power, and I am now not afraid
to say ‘No’ when it is necessary to
do so.”
“My fears are things of the past.
I have gained in mental energy, in-
terest, alertness and concentration.”
“Fear is practically eliminated. The
Course has given me faith in my
abilities and the power of more per-
sistent effort.”
“Childish fear of ridicule has de-
stroyed or marred much of my work
in the past. Now Pelmanism has
shown me how to conquer that fail-
ing.”
“It gives one more self-confidence
and courage in expressing his opinion.”
“I have learnt the value of plan-
ning ahead, of having a settled pur-
pose, of consecutive thinking.”
“I now have a definite aim; my
powers of concentration, memory and
will have been greatly improved.”
“Occasions often arise when a sud-
den crisis, small or otherwise, is apt
to throw one off one’s balance. I
have found that the Pelman Course
is of the greatest benefit in helping
me to retain my equilibrium in such
cases.”
“My aim is clear and more defined.
My powers of observation are very
much keener all round. I gained very
much from the study of the Lesson on
Will Power.”
Pelmanism is Scientific Training of
Mind, Memory and Personality
What Pelmanism Does.
A course of Pelmanism brings out the
mind’s latent powers and develops them to
the highest point of efficiency. It banishes
such weaknesses and delects as:
Depression
Timidity
Forgetfulness
Boredom
The Worry Habit
Unnecessary Fears
Indefiniteness
Mind-Wandering
“Inferiority Complex”
Indecision
Weakness of Will
Pessimism
Procrastination
Inertia
Brain-fag
Morbid Thoughts
which interfere with the effective working
power of the mind, and in their place i
develops strong, positive, vital qualities sucl
as:
—Concentration
—Observation
—Perception
—Optimism
—Cheerfulness
—Judgment
—lnitiative
—Will Power
—Decision
—Originality
—Resourcefulness
—Organising Power
—Directive Ability
—Presence of Mind
—Courage
—Self-Confidence
—Self-Control
—Tact
—Reliability
—Driving Force
—Salesmanship
—Business Acumen
And a Reliable Memory.
By developing these qualities you add to
your Efficiency and consequently to your
Earning Power. In a word, Pelmanism
enables you to live a fuller, richer, happier
and more successful life.
Pelmanism is a sure way to success if
you will give it your loyal effort, your
honest endeavour, and a regular and definite
amount of time until you have completed
the Course. A sustained effort over a period
of but a few weeks will yield you dividends
that will last you your whole life through,
and the Textbooks and personal notes and
correspondence will remain in your posses-
sion, ready at any moment to give you a
steadying encouragement in times of stress,
indecision or fatigue. «
Pelmanism is a vital force, the most
powerful stimulus to success the world has
ever known. It seldom fails. The instruc-
tion is easy. Half an hour a day of spare
time for a few weeks is all that is required.
The benefits last a lifetime.
Pelmanism has stood the TEST OF TIME.
It is a scientific method of Mind and
Memory and Personality Training which, in
a few weeks, makes such an impression
that its followers take a different outlook
on life. Their character strengthens, their
minds improve, they gain confidence, and
this is soon noticeable in all their dealings.
Pelmanism fires you with energy and de-
termination, and shows you how to succceed.
It develops the qualities that mark you
out for promotion. It enables you to work
more quickly and efficiently. It makes you
worth more to your employer, and, therefore,
sooner or later —and perhaps sooner than
you expect—it enables you to earn more.
Pelmanism is tor every man ana every
woman, because every man and every
woman depends on his or her mind. The
Course is given by Correspondence, is easy
to follow, is for all Classes and all Ages.
The benefits are life-lasting.
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these over
40,000 have enrolled with the Institute
in Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 40 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in London, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, C.l, where
it has been established for 30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nam-y- - 1933. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but its purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is emphasised
by every one of the many opinions and
letters published in “The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free. Write
or call.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
To tlie Pelman Institute,, 3 Gloucester House,
386 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
81
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ĸ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
i enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
" BITERS
Robert Kaf\
256 Pages
(illustrated).
The Australian Cattle-dog,
the Kelpie, the Barb,
Bush Greyhounds, Fox-
terriers and many
others in this
splendid book
on Dogs.
Now reduced
to 2/2
(post
free).
w' c >
„ . . - it %, ‘
•>*v ,s
.\V®
o*
a^S af)
•' s o^
> <#
,e ol


YOU WOULD BE WELL ADVISED
TO HAVE
As Much Life Assurance
As You Can Secure
with
THE MUTUAL LIFE & CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
THE M.L.C.
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney
ITS FINANCIAL POSITION IS EXCEPTIONALLY STRONG
Assets Exceed £29,000,000
Annual Income Exceeds £4,300,000
