

■4?
*»»»«
Ot - . v
r
lr»
89
#
:
»
MANUFACTURING WIRELESS EQUIPMENT FOR
USE AT SEA, ON LAND, AND IN THE AIR.
WIRELESS IS
INDUSTRY
w
In the commercial and industrial world, wireless
is of national importance, being closely allied
with Australia’s local and overseas trading, the
press, international affairs, aviation, shipping,
and all arms of defence.
The industry was pioneered by Amalgamated
Wireless in 1913, and since then the Company
has been foremost in every phase of its develop-
ment.
Wireless communication services are available to
overseas countries, Papua, New Guinea and Fiji,
to ships and to aircraft.
A.W.A. is wholly self contained in the manu-
facture of every type of wireless equipment, a
factor of national value in times of peace and
invaluable when other conditions obtain.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
A U S T R A L I A’S
NATIONAL
WIRELESS
ORGANISATION
The Bulletin
Australian City Blackouts
Vol. 60.—No. 3101.
Wednesday, July 19, 1939.
\ Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY,
m
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised m the Sydney bULLEriN.
My Name • ■
My Address
S.B. 239 • •
The Red Page
THE SKELETON OF THE SESQUI.
It is rumored that Miles Franklin and Dymphna
Cusack wanted a design of broad arrows for their
Pioneers on Parade (Angus and Robertson) but were
advised against it. Something of the sort seems
to have happened to the whole book, for its purpose
of satirising the Sesqui. is smothered at the end in
kisses, wedding-bells, babies and a sermon about Aus-
tralia. It is not one book, but two —an amusing skit
on Sydney’s social climbers, and a Message about
the land.
On page 11, for instance, when Aunt Lucy is
invited to Sydney to represent pioneer women, the
authors record it with a chuckle: “Never having re-
ceived any honor in her life, not even the Jubilee
Medal she was deeply touched to be recognised
by the League of the Early Free.” But on the last
page Aunt Lucy reflects with an unrelieved solemnity:
“The land would be there for ever and ever; the hills
everlasting. The land would be there for William
and Lucy and their children, they could continue in
the sturdy Australian tradition which her people had
begun. No man could do more.” It’s like closing
a vaudeville show with “Advance Australia Fair.”
The moralising’s unnecessary because the success-
ful satirising of the snobs and title-hunters is in itself
sufficient to point the moral, and, in addition there is
the excellent character George, the businessman who
hankers for the land and whose dislike of his wife's
caperings in society grows stronger and stronger as
the Sesqui. circus proceeds. The principal charac-
ters, morever, are too successful as burlesques to be
dragged down to reality. Little Willie from the way-
backs and Lady Lucy Cravenburn, around whose
pursuit of Willie the story revolves, are about as
human as giraffes.
Taken as the farce, Pioneers on Parade is enter-
taining all the way. There are flashes of malicious
wit, such as the remark about the Jubilee Medal already
quoted, broadening into the humor of: “ ‘Little Willie
is away getting a new automobile to make his debut
in society,’ Lizzie reported. ‘He will never wash his
hand again after the Governor-General shakes it.’ ”
Society scrambles in Sydney are described with
pleasing venom, and when the scene shifts to the
country there is the comedy of Albert and Lizzie
spying with fieldglasses on Lucy’s painful wooing of
Little Willie.
Though he’s impossible-—and though he’s a frank
development of Dave —Willie at times is irresistibly
funny. He is as innocent as a little calf and so
desperately honorable that the completely amoral
Lucy, who at first merely wants an affair with him,
is forced to marry him.
The plot is a procession of such somersaults:
Lord Cravenburn, Lucy’s cynical parent, came to the
Sesqui. in search of Australians, but can only find
titled visitors and local imitations of them; George’s
ambitious wife despises the bush relatives, Willie and
Aunt Lucy, but finds the social spotlight shines on
her only when Aunt Lucy is honored as a pioneer
and when Lady Lucy falls in love with Willie ; Willie,
having had his pedigree looked up by the Society
for Purer History and finding convict forebears,
breaks with Lucy on the grounds of his unworthiness
to mate with the British aristocracy, but then, spurred
by Aunt Lucy, checks the aristocratic overtures for a
reconciliation because he is too proud to have any-
thing to do with people whose ancestors transported
felons for stealing a currant bun or sneaking a ride
on a draught-horse.
Two chilly nonentities, Prim and Greg, dragged
in to represent Young Australia, do their best to spoil
this programme of satire and slapstick, but neither
they nor the unhappy happy ending amount to more
than two or three wet days in the authors’ enjoyable
holiday from serious fiction.
Tours to Anywhere.
Lavender Dower and Noel Wynyard, Karel
Capek and John Worby are an odd assortment of
guides, but there’s plenty of entertainment to be had
following the first lady to Africa, the second to Siam,
the sprightly Czech to Norway or the Terrible Tramp
from dosshouse to the black places of Mayfair. There
are never too many literary Cooks.
The Lavender lady in Epic Failure (Blackwood)
records adventures in Tanganyika for readers who
like shootin’, a spot of fishin’ and the new sport of
photographin’ presented as “Blackwood’s Magazine”
presents such derrin’-do. She goes first to Germany,
apparently to confirm her dislike of the Nazi regime,
and at this stage of the book present pot-hunter
imagined her head between the hippopotamus and the
stuffed stickleback in the ancestral hall as Specimen
A of the Discontented Traveller. All she had to com-
plain about were the currency regulations, and they,
though they can be irritating enough ( vide Richard
Crooks) are emphatically a country’s own business.
But once in Africa it is a very much brighter
story. She, her husband and a friend, with the usual
retinue of boys, beaters, mosquitoes and vultures,
bump about wild places admiring the flora and bump-
ing off the fauna. They photograph indignant lions
and hippopotami, prompting the reflection that Nero,
if he really wanted sport, should have thrown the
lions to the Christians, instead of the Christians to
the lions. Nothing very much happens, except that
they nickname their boy Boiling Stomach and the cars
keep getting bogged in waterholes, but the book is
amusing all the way through.
Most writers of big-game books try to be bright;
Lavender Dower has succeeded where many a colonel
has crashed. The trip was an “epic failure” because
when she got back to England and took her films to
be developed, “out of 216 stills, 72 were complete
and vacant blanks which had, apparently, never seen
the light of day, 70 more Were divided neatly in the
centre and had a black pall of utter obscurity on one-
side and 16 were as though they were of ‘things seen
in a glass darkly.’”
Noel Wynyard’s Durian (Oxford University
Press) could do with a touch of the humor of Epic
Failure and, like that book, would be all the better
if its first chapter were dropped into the deep blue
sea. The Mediterranean and the Suez Canal have
been described 29,837,465 times before, and the sensi-
tive traveller is likely to leap overboard when he is
informed:
The long trip across the Indian Ocean and down
to Colombo was the dullest part of the journey, and
consequently things on board began to brighten up:
dances and sports, ping-pong and skittles champion-
ships, bathing in the newly-erected swimming-pool and,
finally, the fancy-dress ball that gave ample excuse for
revelry far into the night.
Ping-pong and skittles! But when she is tramp-
ing to her husband’s home miles from anywhere in
greenest Siam she is in a world so fascinating that
one realises why the Oxford Press chose to imprison
it in such exceptionally handsome covers. The decora-
tions for this fancy-dress ball are ferns, orchids,
malevolent-looking fungi; cicadas and strange birds
play the music ; monkeys do the Lambeth Walk, and
when it comes to shouting “Oi!” they have the ad-
vantage over the author’s former friends that their
voices are piercingly sweet —“in actuality clearer and
truer but in a way similar to the murmuring of doves.”
Noel Wynyard’s husband looked after a teak
forest, and for weeks at a time she had to live alone
in their house in the jungle. The solitude haunted
and harried her almost to the edge of insanity. When
her husband returned after her first experience of
loneliness he was so emaciated by fever that she
failed to recognise him at first sight. She had most of
the adventures with snakes, insects, animals and ser-
vants that are expected in books on tropical coun-
tries, and she relates them vividly.
Her account of the. foresting of teak is something
quite out-of-the-way: the careful selection of the tree
to be felled, the hauling by elephants-, the launching
of thousands of logs into the river when the rains
come, the laborious journey of the timber to the mill.
Logs are stranded as the floods subside; natives, find-
ing the channel blocked with timber, burn a passage
for their boats. With luck, she . says, a log may get
from stump to mill in five years. And with luck, too,
she and her husband, travelling by river, sometimes
got somewhere. If they weren’t being tipped out to
be half-drowned and to enjoy the hospitality of
natives who live on bad fish, the live fish were barking
at them, “perpendicularly,” she explains.
During Karel Capek’s travels, on the other hand,
he was afflicted by cows, mooing at him horizontally.
His Travels in the North (Allen and Unwin; per
Angus and Robertson) took him to Denmark, Nor-
way and Sweden, and he has a wholly delightful
fellow-feeling for landscapes and their bovine deco-
rations :
And then, after the alver and tunnels, comes Nor-
way ; and mountains and rocks; and hornless Norwegian
cows. I have already seen the hairy Scotch cattle, and
the huge, violet cattle of the Lake District, the black
Spanish bulls, red and white little Alpine cows, white
Magyar oxen, and Friesian cattle, dappled with black,
like beans; but cows without horns I saw for the
first time somewhere near Skotterud. They are small,
brown and bony.
Having said as much, he has drawn a picture of
the cows. He has drawn the mountains and the fiords,
the cottages and the firs, the square fields and the
square faces, and the humorous little formal designs
are as attractive as his writing. And, like his writing,
they have little to do with the hard world where Nazis
or hippopotami, fevers or foul fish disturb the traveller.
There is something about fir-trees and snow that,
even without Grimm and Hans Andersen, brings in
the air of fairyland, and Capek’s book reads exactly
like a fairytale. The cows are fairy cows, trolls live
in the mountains, the people seem to have cousins
hiding under stones and in hollow trees, and even the
American evangelists who haunted him aboard ship
have something of the charm of ogres. The method
of narration is fantastic, and the landscapes are alive:
The underwood continues to become thicker, it
is taller and shaggier, everywhere, as far as the eye
can see, the white little flames of birch stems, mingling
with them slim and glistening aspens, dark bushes
of alders, and silvery willows, and everywhere beneath
the willows, beneath the crowberries, beneath the birches
surges the peat, nothing but black, wet, shining peat.
It is a gay, delicate piece of writing, and the
only criticism to be made is that people don’t believe
in Santa Claus any more. There’s a limit to the
length to which a fairytale can go before the reader
wakes up, and this one, though the book isn’t very
long, does run on. Worby’s Spiv’s Progress (Dent; per
Angus and Robertson) makes a very good antidote ;
there’s more grime than Grimm here. Dosshouses,
burglary, racketeering, vice. Worby wrote The Other
Half, a low-life autobiography that became a best-
seller, and this is some more out of the same pot.
He begins, quite merrily, tramping through Eng-
land with a mate who burgles the country houses. He
works as a waiter, as a lorry-driver, as a confidence
trickster. He talks to prostitutes, and, when his booK
has made him famous, is introduced to Mayfair’s
more interesting vices. He is in touch with coiners ,
with an organisation which sends servants to houses
all over England to facilitate housebreaking; with a
young couple making a good living by collecting all
the vacuum-cleaners and typewriters that eager sales-
men will supply on trial, selling them to a fence, and
flitting. Frequently he rescues damsels in distress, in-
variably behaving like a perfect gentleman. An in-
triguing book, though one feels that burglars, like
doctors, Shouldn’t Tell. And if they do, they should
make it a bit more credible.
Cabell's Roman Holiday.
There is an autobiographical flavor to Branch
Cabell’s new novel The King Was in His Counting
House (Bodley Head), for in the introduction he states
with some pathos that he, and all men, find that an
excessive altruism overcomes them in middle-age so
that they can no longer please themselves what they
do as they could in the admirable selfishness of their
youth. The book (which is offered altruistically at
the English price of 7s. 6d.) is supposed to illustrate
that theory.
Altruism could scarcely go further than it does
in The King Was in His Counting House, for in the
public interest Cabell slaughters characters whom he
obviously loves at the rate of at least three a chapter,
opening with a magnificent burst of 50 corpses in the
first 10 pages. Duke Sigismund, the late tyrant of
Melphe in renaissance Italy, is prodded out of the
world with a dagger on page 2. On page 10 Cabell
reveals that this was part of a process by which Car-
neschi, the Machiavellian priest, removed some 50
relatives with better titles to the throne to make way
for his protege Ferdinand, the new Duke, Aided by
Carneschi, he says, “Death labored daily to remove
the deficiencies of Duke Ferdinand’s birth.’
A slight—purely altruistic —digression into the im-
proper occupies Cabell’s attention for a few pages,
but it is not long before two of Duke Ferdinand’s
sons are sorrowfully bumped off. Ferdinand bears
with fortitude the death from grief of a wife who had
never been faithful to him. A very little later, Car-
neschi, from whom Cabell must have parted with real
anguish, is executed with grateful ceremonial by a
Ferdinand who is rapidly developing a taste for this
kind of generosity.
After he has mutilated a couple of crooked Court
officials, Cabell rewards the Duke with marriage to a
girl who is in love with one of his surviving sons.
Death and Cabell continue to labor daily to
remove their acquaintances from the temptations of
the Court. One Castelli has his throat cut; Grimoard,
who had intended to liquidate the Duke, is allowed to
repent in the torture chamber; similar courtesies are
prepared for his accomplice, Andrea ; Lorenzo, son
of Ferdinand and heir to the throne, gently dispatches
an inconvenient wife, and Hypolita, who wishes to be
kind to the heir to the throne, hires an assassin to
lever her husband into a better world. For the good
of the story Cabell next consents to the death of the
Duke ; there is a slight weakening here in that Fer-
dinand dies from natural causes, but altruism comes
into its own again when Hypolita, trying to poison
her husband’s brother and rival, poisons Lorenzo by
mistake and then commits an elegant suicide. The
book ends with Cesario, the last of Ferdinand’s sons,
reflecting that he, too, is doomed to middle-age and
altruism.
Though he has an enchanted wood and has bor-
rowed a few of his characters from “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” this Roman Holiday of Cabell’s isn’t
another Jurgen. But his cynical wit is as fresh as ever,
and it is only an altruistic regard for the susceptibili-
ties of the censor that has made this review a mere
list of murders instead of a calendar of the more
tender adventures of Hypolita which are Cabell’s chief
concern.
In the European Jungle.
Germany never had a better friend than Yeats-
Brown. He represented the large number in British
countries—most Australian and Maoriland Diggers
among them—who harbored no grudge or hard feel-
ings against Germany, either on account of the Wai
or because of any dislike for Nazism. He visited
Germany and praised what has been done there
since Hitler came to power. Having a soldier’s mind,
he even liked the marching and pageantry and the
general regimentation of life there.
On the first page of his latest book —European
Jungle (Eyre and Spottiswoode; Angus and Robert-
son)—he says regarding Hitler that “without question
we must now be twice shy of his promises.”
His fault is writ large across a startled Europe.
None of his neighbors trusts him. The law of the
jungle prevails. With the breaking of his pledge at
Munich our recent hopes of disarmament and reconcilia-
tion lie shattered beyond the possibility of quick repair.
A page or two further on:
Germany, by her deliberate disregard of Mr. Cham-
berlain’s efforts to promote goodwill, has done her best
to make the most sinister prophecies of Madame
Tabouis, Mr. Vernon Bartlett and Commander Stephen
King-Hall come true.
He supports Mr. Chamberlain—“ Appeasement
was a sane and Christian policy; it is no discredit to
him that it has for the moment failed”—and he hits
(“ Red. Page”* continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” always.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
tfumj! £ale €h4a £atur4aif
mm
Mmm.
ORDER YOUR SUIT NOW!
at a Substantial SAVING
Our huge range of quality materials have been reduced. They
include latest shades and weaves, which will be tailored in our
new improved manner.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices—
-105- 115/- 126/- 147/- 168/- 189/- 210/-
SALE PRICES 94/6 104/6 115/- 135/- 155/- 168/- 189/-
63'- MEN’S TWEED
OVERCOATS
An Overcoat of all wool Grey tweed,
lined with art. silk which will give many
season's wear. Double breasted, form-
fitting style. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price _ :... :...: ;. 63/-
SALE PRICE 55/-
55/.
e
Best, quality material and best tailor-
ing in English Tweed Topcoats.
Smart new tones of Grey, Blue and
Fawn. Woven check back inside.
Raglans or Chesterfields in a range
of fittings which include regular,
135
/.
long, stout and corpulent, enabling you to get your overcoat
at once and a perfect fit is assured. Regular Price 147/-
SALE PRICE 135/-
STRONG WORK TROUSERS
NOW SALE PRICED
Standard quality Work Trousers reduced made in
Anthony Horderns' own workrooms all materials
guaranteed. Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices —
8/11 10/6 12/9 13/9 14/6 15/6 17/6
SALE PRICES 7/11 9/6 11/9 12/9 13/6 14/6 16/3
MAIL
YOUR
ORDER
EARLY
© Men’s Clothing—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
è
9 7 6 PYJAMAS
w
ŵ
e
611 Work SHIRTS
The "Bushman," an
outstanding line of
Work Shirts with,
double sewn seams.
Made in our own work-
rooms. Collar, and
56
pocket attached. Size 14£ to 19 inches.
Blue shade only. Regular Price 6/11
SALE PRICE 5/6
7 7 6 U'wear
Natural all wool
Underwear 'in a
light weight with
soft, warm finish.
Undershirts ha v e
short sleeves, and
4li
Underpants are ankle length. Size
34 to 44 chest or waist. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price 7/6
SALE PRICE 4/11
ANTHONY
Postal Address:
HORDERN & SONS LTD., SYDNEY
Box 2712 C, G.P.O. 'Phone M 2401, Day and Night
%
m
L^nT*
42'
37 7 6 Super Handcraft Shoes
''Tree'' brand super Handcraft Shoes made
from genuine imported zug, zebu and
French Calf. Brogues with extra stout soles,
and Whole Golosh models on the "Ace"
last. Black or Brown wide welts and
stitched heels. Full and half sizes.
326
Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices : 42/-, 37/6
SALE PRICE 32/6
® Men’s Shoes.—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight paid to all railway
stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.


FOR LOVE
OR MONEY
By Steve Bennett
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
AMBITIONS? Yes, I’ve had a few, but only
one worth rememberin’. It was long ago, when
I was sufferin’ from a badly-swelled head be-
cause I had just passed for my first mate’s
ticket an’ had just met John Spike’s twenty-year-old
daughter Florence. That certificate got me into the
crack ship of the line, the Harold Spike, an’ Florence
got me into a mental cyclone, with ideas bigger than
Tasman rollers tumblin’ in on me from all points o’
the compass.
It was aboard the Harold that I was introduced
to Florence, the agent in Sydney fetchin’ her down
the day after we arrived from Auckland on my first
trip. She was stayin’ with an aunt an’ finishin’ her
education, she told me; an’ she was so pleased to
meet such a slick young officer that I made the most
of my chance. Before I bowed her down the gang-
way I had her aunt’s address, an’ before she had bowed
me out o’ Sydney Harbor a fortnight later, with a
special message to her daddy in a little scented envelope
an’ a little photo, of herself in my locket, I was
dreamin’ greater dreams than she had ever read in her
pile of penny novelettes.
On that return trip I had Captain Crabbe won-
derin’ sometimes just who in hell actually was the
skipper; for I was full o’ ginger an’ bounce, feelin’
my feet not simply as first mate o’ the Harold Spike,
but as her future owner!
When we tied up in Auckland I beat the skipper
to the offices of John Spike an’ Co., an’ I bullied
those quill-drivers till they took me in to see the man
himself. John read the sweet-smellin’ note; an’ I
guessed, by the smilin’ way he laid it aside, it was a
lovin’ little letter of introduction.
“Mr. Brough,” he says, givin’ me a hand that felt
like a wet mop, “I am pleased to make your acquaint-
ance. I wish you luck, young man, and I can assure
you I will be quite interested in your future.”
He brought a whisky decanter to light, an’ we
had a couple together while I told him all worth tellin’
about Florence an’ her aunt an' the voyage. Then I
told him about my voyage to Alaska, an’ on the third
drink I had him half-way from Frisco to the Horn in
a Yankee schooner when in walks Captain Crabbe.
So I left him to report anythin’ I’d missed.
The Harold suited me right enough ; an’ I made
three more trips in her to Sydney, spendin’ all my
cash on presents an’ takin’ Florence an’ her aunt to
theatres, an’ all my knowledge of English in whis-
perin’ to Florence the sweetest nothin’s I could invent.
I wore a special go-ashore suit I’d had made in Auck-
land, with enough gold braid to decorate the com-
modore o’ the Chilean fleet, an’ a smart cap with the
Spike Co.’s emblem all a-glitter. Florence was very
proud o’ me, an’ durin’ that third stay in Sydney I
reckoned it time to pass her the towline.
When she said yes, sittin’ on the couch in her
aunt’s drawin’-room while the old girl nodded over
some knittin’, I kissed her like I’d seen noble heroes
kissin’ lovely heroines on her novelette covers. Aunty
looked a bit upset about the noise, but Florence was
game.
“Jack is goin’ to marry me,” she says, tyin’ reef-
knots in her fingers.
“Oh, indeed!” snarls Aunty very sour. “Mr.
Brough is rather hasty, is he not?”
“He is a true sailor,” answers Florence like you’ve
heard actresses on the stage.
“I won’t be hasty, Aunt,” says I, standin’ up to
look more heroic, although she snorted at the “Aunt.”
“I’ll chat Mr. John Spike about it within an hour of
fetchin’ Auckland.”
That quietened the old dear; an’ she was so
thoughtful as she shook hands when I was leavin’
that I reckoned she was scared about buttin’ in on the
private afFairs of the Spike family.
We were to sail four days later, so I trotted out
to see Florence each evenin’; an’ on my last visit, to
say a long an’ lovin’ farewell, she went hysterical at
sight o’ me.
“Oh, Jack!” she screeched. “Jack, my darling!
Daddy has cabled for me! lam going home in the
Harriett Spike! Won’t it be delightful!”
“Holy Moses!” I barked, forgettin’ myself. “De-
lightful ain’t the word! Can’t the old boy let you wait
for a steamer?”
“A steamer?” chips in Aunty, smilin’ more affable
than usual. “Oh, Mr. Brough, is there any romance
in a steamer?”
I didn’t think there’d be much about the Harriett,
anyhow; but I kept up the excitement by remindin’
them that I would be sailin’ in the Harold at the same
time, an’ it wouldn’t be many days before I’d see my
love once more.
Next mornin’ I was
havin’ a few farewell
whiskies with the skipper in
the bar o’ the Royal Duke,
when in walks old Cranky
Craig, of the Harriett Spike,
an’ Mr. Russell, his mate.
Craig looked as mad as a
bull-terrier, an’ came at us
wavin’ a slip o’ paper.
“Captain Crabbe,” says
he, “what the devil’s the
meanin’ o’ this? Has John Spike decided I’ve grown
so pappy in his service that I’m to take a job as a
damn’ nursemaid?”
It was a cablegram, givin’ hirru orders to take
charge of Florence ; but what made me jump for joy
an shout for drinks was the last few words : “Trans-
fer Russell to Harold, Brough to Harriett.”
“Here’s luck an’ long life to good old John Spike,”
says I. “An’ I’ll have you know, Captain Craig,” I
adds very dignified, “that Miss Spike is engaged to
me.”
Cranky Craig gulped his drink an’ shook himself
like a shaggy Newfoundland. “Engaged to you!”
he roared. “Then why in hell didn’t John put the
pampered, brainless little chit in your charge? An’
why transfer old Russell, the mate I’ve had for
four years, an’ shove on to me a bloody squib just
out o’ knickerbockers! Don’t stand gapin’—blast
your hide! Swaller your drink an’ come with me to
the agent’s!”
In the agent’s office he performed again ; but the
manager swore that John Spike’s word was law, an’ I
backed the manager up, reckonin’ it was really me to
be in charge o’ John’s daughter, an’ decidin’ to keep
a sharp lookout on this domineerin’ old bear. Then
the manager smiled very pleasant as he brought to
light another cable that ended the argument.
“Gentlemen,” says he. “I received this late yester-
day, an’ was intendin’ to communicate the news to
you at the time o’ sailin’, knowin’ it would cheer every-
body up... Mr. Spike offers twenty pounds to the cap-
tain who first reaches the Auckland wharf. It is to
be a fair race, gentlemen, an’ twenty pounds makes a
nice little addition to a captain’s pay.”
Before we’d got over our surprise he was bustlin’
us out with pats on the back. We made a beeline for
Mother Malond’s, an’ I was glad to see Cranky Craig
lookin’ more cheerful as he lined us up to shout.
“Well,” says he, “I’m sorry for John Spike. He’s
not near as old as me, but he’s goin’ ratty. I’ve been
sailin’ his ships for over ten years, an’ I never knew
the lousy skinflint to spend sixpence on a second-hand
ringbolt without weepin’ over it! Now he’s chuckin’
away twenty quid, after packin’ his spoiled brat
aboard my ship to save her fare! To collect an extra
cheque from a man like that, sonny, I’ll drive his old
wagon as she’s never been driven before!”
“An’ if I beat you for it,” laughs Captain Crabbe,
“I’ll frame it for the Auckland museum!”
We were all maggin’ very friendly about the
chances of both ships as we left the pub, but the
minute Craig stepped aboard his ship with me he lost
his shore manners.
“Get ready for sea at once, Mister,” he growled
like a surly mastiff. “Reeve off new topsail braces,
as well as any other runnin’ gear that looks weak. If
you need it, use up every fathom o’ new rope in the
locker —an’ make it lively!”
So I stirred up the second mate an’ the crew, an’
there was never more noise aboard the biggest home-
ward-bounder leavin’ port than when I had the crowd
in that little barque jumpin’ to it.
Just after dinner a cab pulled up at the wharf
an’ emptied out Florence an’ her aunt. They came
aboard, an’ I was as proud as any other prince in a
fairy story when Florence gave me her hand.
“Jack, you dear!” she murmurs. “You’ve changed
ships for my sake! How delightful!”
But I felt a bit worried about the Old Man.
“Come below with me,’ miss,” he chips in pretty sharp.
“I’ll show you your cabin. You get about your work,
Mister!”
Florence seemed scared at the whisky-soakin’ old
bully, but her aunty smiled an’ bowed as though he
was payin’ her compliments. They went below, an’
I could hear the Old Man’s voice raspin’ at the steward
for not havin’ everythin’ in order. Then I caught
his complaint myself, an’ started in to abuse the sailors
as the laziest bunch o’ stiffs that ever crawled about
a ship’s deck.
After a while one feller gave a bit o’ backslack ;
but he’d had nothin’ to put life into him, an’ I quiet-
ened him quick by hoppin’ across an’ threatenin’ to
break his damn’ neck. The Old Man heard that, an'
called me up to the poop.
“If you’re fightin’ anyone aboard my ship, Mr.
Mate,” says he, “let it be me! That man is one o’
the best afloat in these days of jumped-up Johnny-
come-lately mates ; an’ don’t forget, my young cock-
sparrer, you’ll be needin’ a cool head on this trip! ”
What could I say, with Aunty turnin’ back at the
gangway an’ gazin’ at the skipper as though she was
dyin’ to kiss him farewell, an’ Florence’s eyes poppin’
at me as if I was bein’ murdered!
WELL, we got away, an’ cleared the Heads in a
light nor’-easter. The Harold had an hour start,
an’ the Old Man chuckled to himself as we pointed
to windward of her. I took advantage of his good
humor to have a word with Florence ; but she’d lost
her gush an’ was fast losin’ her voice. She was be-
ginnin’ to look pretty green, an’ I suppose the sight
o’ me in workin’ rig didn’t improve her; but I might
have cheered her up if it hadn’t been for Cranky Craig.
“Can’t you see the kid is sick, Mister?” he says
very impatient. “An’ can’t you find somethin’ better
to do than maggin’ to the other passenger?”
So I found somethin’ at the lee braces for all hands
to do ; an’ I got even by bawlin’ that they were the
grumpiest crowd o’ hoodlums I’d ever sailed with!
Florence went below long before sunset; an’
although I was anxious to say good night, tappin’ on
her door while the Old Man was on deck, I got no
invitation. Then I tried to square the steward ; but
he just grinned, say in’ the skipper had given him
strict orders! So the first day at sea with my promised
bride was not too promisin’.
The second day was worse. Early in the forenoon
watch both ships rolled in a dead calm, but with every
sign of heavy weather from the west. Then we got a
few cat’s-paws, an’ old Cranky chuckled every time he
looked at those clouds bankin’ up astern. All hands
knew the race was on, an’ although they growled
because they couldn’t get a few bob on their own ship
they hopped into their work, keepin’ one eye on the
Harold an’ the other on the lookout for every little
puff. The whole crowd was whistlin’ for a good blow,
me bein’ the only man aboard with any feelin’s for
the poor little passenger lyin’ sick in her poky cabin.
Before midday I began to forget her myself,
lowerin’ away the royals an’ dancin’ from brace to
brace like a damn’ savage, with the Old Man watchin’
every move I made an’ roarin’ about any yard I left
an inch out o’ trim, an’ the watch staggerin’ from lee
to weather an’ back to lee, cursin’ the seas topplin’
inboard or cheerily singin’ to the freshenin’ breeze,
I even forgot my dinner; an’ when the second mate
an’ his watch came on deck at eight bells the only
thing in the world that mattered to me was the beatin’
of the Harold.
We took in the fore-to’gans’l, but Cranky hung
on to his main ; an’ when the second mate squealed
“I think, sir, we should take it in now,” the skipper
glared at him a minute, then laughed in his face.
“There’s grog below to steady your nerves,” says
he. “An’ you can have the lot, because this trip I’m
not drinkin’!”
Hearin’ that, I felt a lot more respect for this
Old Man ; an’ when at last I ducked below for my
grub, an’ the second mate sneaked after me lookin’
pretty glum, I mentioned it.
“I respect him more myself,” he mumbles, “when
he’s drinkin’ in moderation an’ sailin’ in moderation.
If he’s goin’ right off his grog it means he’s gettin’
back to his record-breakin’ days—an’ I’m sorry I
didn’t sign off in Sydney.”
“Sign off in hell!” I snapped. “Sailin’ ships are
built to be sailed, ain’t they, not trundled along like
bloody hand-trucks! Get on deck before he misses
you —you goddam jellyfish! ” An’ then I twigged the


steward cornin’ through the open doorway of
Florence’s cabin!
“Miss Spike is very seasick, Mister,” says he, pre-
tendin’ to be serious. “An’ she don’t get much relief,
so she says, from your disgustin’ language.”
“She’d get some relief on deck in the fresh air,”
I laughed, thinkin’ how funny she’d look tryin’ to
keep her feet with the spray washin’ the powder off
her nose. “Anyhow,” I says as the steward started
up the companionway, “if I want convertin’ I’ll see a
parson in Auckland. Your job aboard this hooker is
to see to the grub—an’ not waste too much time on
the wrong side o’ that flamin’ door!”
I rolled in for a spell, an’ rolled out again before
four o’clock. Judgin’ by the motion, the Old Man
was still hangin’ on to his canvas ; an’ as I stepped
into the saloon from my own cabin, I spotted him
there at the whisky bottle, which annoyed me.
“Thought you wasn’t drinkin’, sir?” says I.
“I’m not,” he answers, pourin’ out a decent whack.
“This is medicine for the passenger.”
He went into Florence’s cabin, an’ came out
grinnin’ with the empty glass.
“How is she?” I asked.
“Dyin’,” says he, grippin’ the table quick to save
his ribs. “Of fright.”
“Reckon we’d better shorten sail before night,
sir!” says I pretty smart —an’ loud enough for Flor-
ence to hear I was sympathetic.
“Reckon you’d better keep your mouth shut!”
snaps old Cranky.
The gale increased durin’ the dog-watches, an’
when Cranky at last began to notice his ship runnin’
like a submarine he gave the word. He was too late
to save the foresail, which blew to a hundred strips in
the clewin’ up, but we shortened down to lower an’
upper topsails, gettin’ half-drowned by seas that ham-
mered aboard an’ tangled fathoms o’ rope round our
legs. I roared myself hoarse urgin’ the crowd to it,
an’ they fought through that first watch like deep-sea
devils, never lettin’ up till everythin’ was snug aloft
an’ all ropes coiled an’ hitched up safe.
“It’s past eight bells, Mister,” says the Old Man
as I came gropin’ up the poop-ladder. “Call the hands
aft to splice the mainbrace!”
I served the grog myself an’, hearin’ the lads
crackin’ jokes as they hunched round the companion-
hatch, I made it an extra-stiff nobbier. Then we left
the second mate in charge, me an’ the Old Man goin’
below.
“They’re a fair crowd o’ men for’ard,” he says
as he dragged off his oilskin an’ sou’-wester an’
flopped on the settee. “An’ as a sailor, Mister, you
ain’t altogether hopeless yourself! Take a nip.”
I did, feelin’ too modest to answer his compli-
ment ; but when he suddenly sat forward an’ went
sentimental I nearly dropped the bottle..
“Listen, young man,” he says, anxious an’ all
ashake. “If you’ll stand by me on this run, like I’ve
stood by failin’ old skippers when I was your age,
I’ll halve John Spike’s cheque with you! ”
“I am standin’ by you, sir,” says I very friendly
an’ loyal, an’ proud it was the truth. “An’ after
makin’ a few trips with a fair-weather man like Cap-
tain Crabbe, just for my lousy pay, I’d stand by you
through hell itself for an extra tenner! ” Then I turned
in again, an’ was like a dead man in twenty seconds.
A T four in the mornin’ the ship had the staggers, an’
** I found the Old Man snarlin’ at the second mate
to go below an’ stay below if he wasn’t satisfied. Then
he turned on me.
“Stand by your tops’l halyards, Mister,” he
growled. “An’ keep all hands standin’ by! The
breeze is freshenin’.”
His breeze was a howlin’ gale, his ship was bury-
in’ her lee rails, an’ I risked my neck sneakin’ along
to the halyards an’ gettin’ the crew together. In the
same breath I was cursin’ the sea an’ seafarin’ an’
prayin’ the cargo wouldn’t shift.
I waited a few minutes, all ears. Then the Old
Man bellered like a mad bull, an’ I wasn’t slow in
slackin’ off. Down comes the yard to a noisy rattlin’
o’ the big blocks, the crew warblin’ the sea-water out
o’ their throats as they pulled on downhauls an’ bunt-
lines. But above the clatter an’ shout an’ the dronin’
o’ the shrouds aloft came the Old Man’s voice again
—an’ the hair stood up under my sou’-wester at his
opinion o’ me as a mate.
“Didn’t you say lower away, sir?” I yelled when
he stopped for breath.
“Lower away be damned! ” he blared back. “Can’t
you see that puff is gone? Now hoist your yard again
lively! ”
We hoisted it again—an’ I’ve never hoisted an-
other under the same conditions! The Old Man
went along quiet enough then, although he complained
too often of the wind haulin’ abeam, every complaint
meanin’ more brace-drill.
Daylight came with cold drivin’ mist, gallopin’
green seas poundin’ aboard, screamin’ squalls tearin’
at everythin’, aloft an’ the cook handin’ out cold grub
from a galley like a duck-pond an’ Cranky Craig
moanin’ a new song: “The wind is haulin’ ahead,
Mister—it’s haulin’ ahead!” An’ so we slaved on
until, even with yards sharp up, we could no longer
hold to our course.
Then the Old Man seemed to blame me. “Russell
is a mate of great experience,” he says. “Always very
careful an’ very cool.”
“Jack, Jack,” she- says, dingin' to
a stanchion an’ gaspin’ like a stranded
porpoise. “Can you not protect me?”
“An’ I suppose never bringin’ head winds!” I
growled back.
“What amounts to the same thing,” he goes on,
“never bringin’ women into ships built only for men.
Even in his young days Russell was never a ladies’
man.”
“Then he never wasted good whisky on one of
’em! ” I snorted. “How is she enjoyin’ her cough-
mixture?”
“She’s under lock an’ key for bein’ drunk,” he
says. “Came tearin’ out on deck like a wild she-cat,
just as that heavy puff had me thinkin’, clawin’ at me
an’ orderin’ me to stop the ship. I advised her twice
to go away ; but it was the third time, when I spoke
a bit plainer an’ bundled her down, that you thought
I said lower away.”
“What a damn’ shame! ” says I, feelin’ more sorry
for him than for myself. “An’ a fine old yarn she’ll
tell her daddy about you!”
“Don’t you worry about me,” he growled. “You
get in the slack o’ those weather braces!”
COR four days we beat against a head wind an’
* sea that made a man feel like a blowfly buzzin’
round a jug an’ gettin’ nowhere. There was always
somethin’ workin’ slack or cornin’ adrift. New rope
was stretchin’, old rope an’ canvas was snappin’ an’
splittm’, bolts were wobblin’ loose, blocks were
jammin’, timbers were strainin’, an’ when the crew
wasn’t doin’ somethin’ less amusin’ they were mannin’
the pumps!
Through it all the Old Man was as sharp as a
sail-needle. He watched his ship, he watched the com-
pass an’ he watched the weather. He watched the
wheelman an’ he watched me. He had eyes aloft, eyes
for’ard an’ aft, eyes everywhere on everythin’ an’ every-
body like a whiskery old goblin in a kid’s nightmare
threatenin’ to eat some poor mutt if he found a rope-
yarn out o’ place.
When he’d snatch a bit o’ rest in the saloon he’d
snore like a spoutin’ whale for an hour, then go
stampin’ out on deck as fresh as ever. He let me
take my four-hour watch on deck very regular, but
he wasn’t so darned regular about my watches below ;
an’ I began to kid myself that he liked my company.
The passenger was bein’ looked after well enough
by the steward ; an’ he never left the door of her cell
unlocked till, on the seventh day out, after the wind
had left us to roll ourselves dizzy in the heavy sea,
he dropped the key an’ went fumblin’ round on all
fours fishin’ for it. I was tryin’ to swaller what dinner
hadn’t been already scattered about the saloon ; an’
when Florence came tumblin’ out I was too busy for
speech-makin’, although she seemed to think she was
back in her dear old aunty’s drawin’-room.
“Jack —Jack,” she says, dingin’ to a stanchion
an’ gaspin’ like a stranded porpoise till I was ashamed
of her. “Can you not protect me?”
“Protect you? Dammit!” I shouted, as a slippery
spud dodged me an’ went bobbin’ down behind her
feet. “Every man aboard is protectin’ you! Better
take things more easy. Now go back to your room
till the sea steadies down or the ship steadies up or
you steady your nerves or somethin’.” An’ as I lovin’ly
hugged my plate to my breast with both arms, the
crazy old hooker bein’ right on her beam-ends, I adds
very coaxin’: “Florence dear, for the love o’ Mike
don’t bring us any more bad luck! ”
The silly, grinnin’ steward tried to help her back
to her cabin, when she goes all stagy again. “I defy
you,” she screeches. “I defy you all! ”
“Don’t stand there like a loon,” I yapped at him.
“Bung her in an’ fetch me some tea!”
It seems queer, but within ten minutes then we
got a fair wind ; an’ we piled on the canvas till there
wasn’t a pocket-handkerchief left to hang out. The
Old Man was actually laughin’, an’ he started in to
tell me yarns of his mad young days ; but he still kept
both eyes rollin’, an’ so did I —an’ it was God help
any careless wheelman!
With a stiff southerly we made the pace a cracker,
drivin’ into the dawn by Cape Maria like a scared
albatross an’ roundin’ the North Cape with yards
jammed hard on the backstays an’ all hands on the
jump. At eight o’clock we were ready to put her
about; an’ the Old Man was so pleased with every-
thin’ an’ everybody that he made his first mistake for
the voyage.
“Steward,” he says at breakfast, “in half an hour
bring Miss Spike on deck for a glimpse o’ New
Zealand.”
In half an hour I was for’ard at the braces. The
second mate was at the main, but the Old Man
seemed undecided whether to go about or go on
kiddin’ to Florence about the scenery.
At last, when the man at the wheel had been
stampin’ his feet for ten minutes, the skipper gave his
order —“Hard down, my lad! ” —very polite ; shouted
to us for’ard like Mother Malone offerin’ to pay for
drinks, brought his ship gently into the wind —an’
carried away his fore-topmast!
You never saw such a mess o’ tangled, danglin’
spars, canvas an’ cordage; an’ I’ll swear Florence
never heard such a tangled mess of English! What she
was squealin’ about this time, dancin’ round claspin’
her hands, I don’t know ; but Cranky kept his head,
an’ all hands stuck to their posts till we got the old
cripple round an’ hove to. Then we started to clean
up, an’ the thought of the Harold bein’ somewhere
handy made that cleanin’ up pretty brisk!
“You’d better let go anythin’ that might be dan-
gerous, Mr. Brough,” says the Old Man very cautious,
but with a squint in one eye that carried more weight
('Continued on page 7.)


PUCKY
PUNCH
BY A.C. HEADLEY.
ILLUSTRATED BY PHILLIPS.
SHE listened while he told her.
-Joe, he comes up to me, see? ’Like to go
a couple with Phil?’ he says. If Phil ain’t too
scared,’ is what I tell 'im an’ Joe laughs an’ Phil
laughs, and we stick on the gloves. ‘l’ll give im a
workout,’ I say. This Phil—he’s a good boy. Right
up the top, an’ ’e gits ’undreds of quids for a fight.
J go at ’im careful-like for the start, an’ Phil just taps
me around for a bit. I’m kind of feelin’ him out. I
let ’im ’ave it a coupla times, but he ain’t nowhere
near.
“Phil’s good orright Molly tricky an' fast AU
the time he keeps pickin me orf with the lefts I keep
thinkin’. An’ presently I’m thinkin’W funny it is
the way he brings his chin on top of is arm when e
leads. ’E does it an’ then ’e does it agin, but I’m
backmovin’, see? There ain’t nothin’ I can do. But
soon I’m thinkin’ that if I’m still there when that left
prods there might be room for a cross. So the next
time I take it an’ undo the strings on me right. I can
still feel ’is chin in me arm muscles. ’E jist got sort of
saggy an’ dropped down on ’is knees, an’ the next
minute ’e’s on ’is face in the middle of the ring an’
me an’ Joe is pickin’ ’im up. It’s funny like that; I
don’t know why, but I was beginnin’ to feel real
scared It ain’t right that a four-round prelim, like me
can beat a champ. That’s what I think first, an’ then
it comes to me about workin’ out ’ow the champ.
leaves ’is chin open an’ I can see it was brains an’
not no lucky swing. It was jist like them big fellers
do Molly—fight to a plan.” His voice trailed into a
brief self-consciousness. “You know, Molly, I could
beat ’im again Jist think of it—l could be champ.”
“You bin fightin’ four-rounders,” she reminded
him “and you lost your share of them. That don’t
sound to me like no champion.”
He shoved his hands into his trouser pockets, and
let his coat hang in two sharp corners through his
arms
“I jist been fightin’,” he said. “I ain’t been think-
in’. It’s different. You gotter study their weaknesses,
v ”
You gotter see do
A She , !! W ,\ T°a T % miiHs for
Think of the dough, Molly. nre q
l lst or ) e . fight. There dbe pitchers m e pap
everything, he to er -
Jackie, she said, Stan says ey wan men
the new job. ’E could git you taken on. It amt bad
money.
Get a job and give up fighting, and just after he d
k.o.’d the champion. He grinned suddenly and felt
that you could never understand women. ‘ Fightin s
a job, Molly. It’s a better job than diggin clay with
that brother of yours. int , ££l
dough than Stan already. What s bitin y .
“It’s all this you ’ear about puneh-drunks an bem
silly. It can’t last for ever, Jackie You cant keep
Mtin’ all y’rli e. Whaft gonner ’appen when you
cant get no more fights/
“I’m gonner git my share before that ’appens.
Listen, Molly, I beat the champ., didn’t I? Orright,
I can do it agin, can’t I?”
j t was an ac tual belief in his mind. He would
fi g ht his way up to the main fights and then the
champ, would lift his chin with the lead, and you only
had to take it and short-loop the right to the chin. It
was f unny thin King of it, and the crowd yelling, and
Phil Regan grad ually falling from his knees on to
his face.
“i t was jist a lucky punch, Jackie. You’d never
do it agata »
He wanted ‘to defend that. “I tell y’ I thought
d out. I see ’im the way ’e leaves ’is jaw open, an’
i worked it out.”
“Orright,” she said wearily.
* * * * *
jOE MATTHEWS said to him: “Phil tells me
you’ve got a bit of a punch, Jackie.”
“It ain’t bad.”
“I thought you might like a couple of six-
rounders.”
“It’ll do me.”
That was the way when you got a break. A
few fights in the sixes, and then maybe an eight, and
then on to the tens and so on.
“It’ll do me, Joe.” He thought of the way Phi!
Regan hoisted his chin over his glove, and grinned.
There were things to notice about other fighters
now, and he was winning his fights. It was his con-
fidence that was winning for him. Hadn’t he beaten
Phil Regan? These others were dirt. Where at one time
he could have been worried out of a fight it was im-
possible now. There was his right hand ready and
waiting, and always a chance to use it. He made the
“You and your lucky punches! You'll be
a ratbag, that’s what."
most of his opportunities, smacking it home even
when punches were thudding into his body.
“I told you it was brains, Molly. All y’ gotter
do in the fight game is to outthink ’em. Look at the
dough I’m coppin’ now. It ain’t all neither, Molly.
I’m gonner be champ. You an’ your talk about lucky
punches. I tell y’ I know just what I’m gonner do
when I git in that ring with Regan. ’E’s gonner come
at me —see? —an’ I’m gonner take ’is lead an’ slug ’im.
There’ll be a new champion, Molly, an’ it’ll be me. ’
“I wish you’d quit the fight game,” she said, “an’
git a regular job. You’ve got money. You could buy
a business or something.”
“It’d be throwin’ money away,” he defended.
“Look at what Phil Regan cops for a fight. What’s
wrong with fightin’?”
“Look at your ear an’ nose,” she said; “that’s
what’s wrong with it, an’ bein’ a punch-drunk.”
“Not if you got brains. It’s on’y the mugs that
git that way. Phil Regan ain’t no punchie, an’ ’e’s
been fightin’ a long time more than me.”
“You can ’ave brains an’ no money,” she said,
“an’ it’s the money you finish up wantin’ the most. ’
He could beat Phil Regan. He knew it. Some-
times now they were fighting on the same bill, and
after his fight was over he would hurry out of his
dressing-room to watch the champ. Phil was good.
He was a pretty fighter, dainty and clean. He always
won easily, looking as though he wasn’t really trying.
But Jackie was puzzled why some of the others had
not discovered the little trick about Regan’s chin. Sit-
ting there he could detect the weakness a dozen times.
It made him ache not to be in the ring, fighting.
“Molly, if I could jist git a chance. It ain’t that
I’m a better fighter than ’im, but I know how to beat
’im. I done it once. I can do it agin.”
* * * * *
T” HEN suddenly they were in the ring together.
*• Regan had not fought for the title for a long
time. The papers were beginning to play it up, forc-
ing him into a title match. It was natural he should
pick the least likely of the contenders for his opponent.
The fact that Jackie had scored a k.o. in a gym. scrap
he had almost forgotten, and anyway it had been a
fluke punch. He had seen Jackie fight and he was
not troubled by the prospect.
It was funny, Jackie thought, looking out at the
faces, stretching right back into the darkness of the
bleachers. He could see the grey smoke moving into
the ring lights. Across the ring Regan was sitting
easily in his corner.
Mertally was bending over Jackie. “ ’Ow y’ feel?”
“Scared as hell,” Jackie said, his throat dry.
Mertally grinned. “It’s a good sign.”
It was good having Jimmy Mertally in your
corner. He made you feel better. Jimmy had a head.
If you took notice of Jimmy you didn’t go far wrong.
He was saying something now. “Take it easy in the
first. Let Regan make the fight.”
Jackie nodded vaguely, thinking it was funny that
Jimmy had never been a fighter, seeing that he knew
so much about it. You were all right if you took
notice of Jimmy. He knew how to win a fight.
In the third round it might have happened. Jackie
was a trifle slow. Regan had led, his chin edged over
his arm ; there was speed in Jackie’s right cross, but
it was high, too high. It took Regan on the side of
the head.
Regan was beginning to punish him now, moving
around and picking him off, but he wasn’t making
any more mistakes with his chin.
Back in Jackie’s corner Mertally was still telling
him to stand off. “He’ll leave ’imself open before
long.”
Sure, he’d leave himself open. But he didn’t. He
was making Jackie angry the way he slipped and
rolled with the punches. There was no way of hitting
him properly. He was too clever. You had to wait
for something to happen, and nothing did happen.
Jackie was beginning to feel tired. Follow Mertally’s
advice —keep away from him. What good was it?
Suddenly he wanted to get in and throw punches.
It was something to stop these stinging lefts stabbing
into his face. He tightened and started to move in.
For a moment he had Regan in a corner and had the
satisfaction of his fists thudding hard to Regan’ body.
Then Regan was moving away around the ring. He
followed, hurling punches. Below him he heard Mer-
tally’s shouted exhortations to keep away from him,
but the crowd noise was filling his ears, and his punches
were thudding home. This was the way to win. It
was waste of time to wait for that chin weakness of
Regan’s. The best way was to pound him into un-
consciousness. He could feel the hard knot of his
muscles and the firmness of Phil Regan’s flesh as he
punched. He heard Mertally: “Stay away from ’im.”
He came back to consciousness with a second
slapping at his jaw. He opened his eyes and blinked
and felt the pain in his cut lip. He was still in the
ring. It couldn’t have been long. His first thought
was that the bell had saved him. He looked across
at the other corner, but Regan was gone.
“What ’appened?” . „
“A one-two,” Mertally told him briefly. ? 1 tol
you to keep away from ’im. Didn’t you ’ear me
yellin’ ” _ TT , .
He wasn’t listening to Mertally. He was stepping
out of the ropes, moving along the aisle to the dress-
ing-room, his mind still struggling to grasp what had
happened. Molly would be waiting for him outside.
He dressed quickly and went out.
“I dunno what ’appened, Molly, he said. 1
practically ’ad ’im. I was fightin’ all over ’im. It was
jist a lucky punch copped me.”


than fifty curses. An’ seein’ my old tenner also be-
ginnin' to float out o’ reach I was willin’ to agree that
half the blasted ship was dangerous!
Considerin’ the damage done an’ the gear we
ditched, I was sorry for the skipper’s chance of ever
sailin’ one o’ stingy John Spike’s ships again. We
spent hours on the job, then hobbled down the coast
like a broken-winged gull, takin’ three full days to
make port in a scanty breeze that set a man’s nerves
on edge.
I suppose Florence thought that part o’ the trip
delightful. Anyhow, she didn’t say so, unless it was
to the steward ; nor did she even say “Thank you”
to me an’ the skipper for bringin’ her in safe an’
sound when she strutted down the gangway, the minute
it was lowered, to meet a bunch o’ gigglin’ dames
an’ high-collared Gussies.
'T'HAT day, old Cranky wouldn’t go ashore without
1 me. “I’d sooner face the snortin’ Tasman at its
worst,” he says in the second pub on the way to the
office, “than John Spike in a dead calm. My nerves
go to pieces when I start up those cold stone steps.”
Then he grips my paw, his wrinkled, bushy mug fairly
collapsin’ in smiles, an’ his rumblin’ voice soundin’
sweeter to me than any pretty love-speech.
“You’ve done well, Mister,” he says. “Well in-
deed! Captain Crabbe won’t be in for a day or two
yet, because that mate of his is always like forty
deck-buckets towin’ astern. I can see now that it’s a
young mate I need, to keep me from growin’ as
mouldy as Russell himself. If I stay in Spike’s ships,”
he says, droppin’ a hand on my shoulder, “you’re
sailin’ with me!” Then he went up the cold steps,
me. standin’ by to put in the bounce when necessary.
They talked the ordinary business for a few
minutes, before the skipper began rubbin’ one leg
with the other heel an’ apologisin’ for the loss o’ the
topmast. Spike interrupted him.
“Ten years ago, Captain Craig,” he says very
cool, “you came to me with a splendid record for fast
passages. I have since found you a most trustworthy
shipmaster, you knowing me as a careful man always
anxious to economise. The extra expense of this
voyage, however, including a few cables to my agent
and my sister in Sydney, and this cheque, Captain, I
am putting down to my daughter’s education! Mr.
Brough,” he goes on like an echoin’ iceberg, his eyes
borin’ through me, “I gather, from what my daughter
has told me, that you also are an excellent seaman—
although that is hardly her exact statement! It might
encourage you to know that, should you continue in
my service, Mr. Brough, your prospects are now very
much brighter as a seaman than as a shipowner!”
“Yes,” she repeated dully, “it was a lucky punch.”
I ’ad it all over ’im in that last round. I’d ’ave
beat ’im in a couple more.”
I w * s h you’d stop fightin’,” she said. “You got
enough dough to set you up in somethin’, an’ you
won t git no chance at the title again for a long time.
You don t want to be no punch-drunk.”
I won’t.” He was confident. “There won’t be no
more lucky punches. I’ll pick up orright an’ then
111 git a smack at Regan, an’ this time I won’t cop
one of his Christmas punches.”
She looked at him and felt a desire to slap him
across the face. It was getting him, the fighting busi-
ness his jaw was beginning to flatten, and his eyes
were dull. He was all right now, but a few punches
could make a lot of change.
You and your lucky punches,” she said bitterly.
You re mad. Lucky punch—that’s what you been
building on all the time. That’s what it was that day
in the gym.” She paused. “You ain’t no champion,
but you 11 go on thinkin’ it right up to the day when
you git past thinkin’ and past understandin’ what
people are talkin’ about. You’ll be a rat-bag, that’s
what, an’ you’ll go right on thinkin’ about ’ow clever
you was to knock Phil Regan, an’ you won’t ever
know it was the worst thing you ever done in your
life. You’ll be punch-silly, Jackie. Punch-silly from
a lucky punch.”
He stood, his mouth dropping open, facing her.
You don’t know what you’re talkin’ about. It wasn’t
no lucky punch I copped Regan with. I near ’ad ’im
the same way to-night.”
‘You near ’ad ’im. You’ll always nearly ’ave ’im.
But you won’t. It ain’t ever you an’ Regan fightin’.
It s somethin’ inside of you. Somethin’ that tells
you about the time you k.o.’d him, and it won’t let you
iorget, until you ain’t capable of remembering any-
thing. You’ll be back fightin’ in the fours, an’ you’ll
always be tryin’ to git back on top so you can ’ave a
slap at Regan.”
He shoved his hands into his pocket, and let his
coat hang in two sharp corners through his arms.
“If you don’t like it,” he said, “you can go to
hell.”
He stared after her as she walked away unable
to decide whether he was glad or sorry. Lucky punch.
She didn’t know what she was talking about. There
hadn’t been any luck about it that day in the gym. He
could still remember how he had kept himself tucked
behind his gloves, watching for Regan’s chin to prop
over the lead. That wasn’t no luck. It was just he’d
been looking for an opening and he’d found it.
He started to walk along the street. He’d start in
training right away and it wouldn’t be long before he
got another go at Regan.
MEMOIRS OF A JUNIOR CLERK
BY LES ROBINSON
I SHALL always remember my first attempt at being
an employee. It was in a wool-and-hide store. How
I came to be employed there I forget now, but
I rather fancy that someone must have got the
job for me, because 1 bore little or no resemblance —-
I was always being told so, at all events —to the kind
of potential employee that employers were looking
for, and on that account seemed fated to experience
great difficulty in getting a job for myself.
I was there about a month. The stench was
awful. The other employees told me it was fattening.
They were so used to it that they breathed just as
freely and sang and whistled as much while they
worked as though their occupation was odorless. To
me, however, the effluvium seemed as all-pervasive
as it was abominable. I used to hold my breath as
often and as long as I could, and whenever possible
put my head out the window and inhaled deep
draughts of fresh air. What I very soon discovered
caused by far the largest amount of stench, for it
was part of my job to help sort them out, were con-
signments of bullocks’ horns and hoofs, designated
for trade purposes, if I remember rightly, “glue
pieces.”
Then came the Saturday when I was locked in.
Yes, imprisoned with all that stench. I had, I sup-
pose, been too intent upon my work to notice how
the time was slipping by. Perhaps the store, for some
reason or other, had closed a little earlier than usual.
At all events, when, thinking it must be nearly lunch-
time, I went to get my coat and hat, I found that all
the other coats and hats had disappeared, and shortly
afterwards discovered to my dismay that the front
door was bolted and barred.
To a juvenile, and a nervous one, it was most
alarming—like those predicaments, in fact, only en-
countered, as a rule, in nightmares. I thought the best
thing to do would be to summon the fire brigade, but
found that 1 couldn’t, because the only telephone was
in the manager’s private office, the door of which was
locked. Panic-stricken by the prospect of having to
spend the whole week-end in the store, I roamed
about it, seeking vainly, like a rat in a trap, for some
means of escape. It was not until about the middle
of the afternoon, at the risk of breaking my limbs
or neck, that I managed to squeeze through a venti-
lator about sixteen feet above ground level, and, after
what seemed an eternity spent in screwing up my
courage to essay the drop, shut my eyes, let go and
landed, contrary to expectations and with intense
relief, on the pavement.
Rightly or wrongly, the management decided
that a boy who could let himself be locked in like
that was in all probability eminently suited for some
entirely different occupation ; so for several months
I led a tranquil and carefree existence, only interrupted
by earnest endeavors (I fear, though, that they were
somewhat sporadic) to help with the work of the
world.
N 4 Y next job also had its drawbacks, 1 was fated to
** * discover in course of time, but they were
different. There were, for instance, only the mingled
odors of musty files and ledgers, office paste, moth
balls and merchandise of various kinds to contend
against. But a great many gummed labels were used
by that firm, and I was also placed in charge of
stamps.
On a mail day, after my tongue had travelled
several miles over gummed surfaces, I could taste
postage stamp in the soup when I was having my
dinner, and gummed label in the meat and pudding.
One afternoon Nature’s reservoir proved unequal to
the amount of business on hand, and, without asking
permission, I substituted a watering-can, but as soon
as he noticed that I had done so the supervisor of
the mail-order and forwarding department took it
away from me. He considered the method too slow.
Grabbing one of the very small labels and licking it
just to show me how much quicker licking was, he
left me to deal in (as he thought) a similar fashidti
with the remaining four hundred-odd. Often I wished
while thus employed that a calf, provided by the
management, was there to assist me.
One of the many and various ways that man
had of being a nuisance to me was by rushing out
of his private office in a fluster, real or simulated,
with a batch of letters in his hand for me to post in
time to catch a mail which closed within the next
ten minutes As the building we occupied was fully
fifteen minutes’ walk from the post office and not on
a tram or a bus route, I would have to run all the
way. He may have thought that I was a slow boy
and have done that sort of thing in order to smarten
me up. I suspected him of it at all events, and won-
dered also sometimes whether he made bets with the
accountant, whose sporting proclivities were no less
pronounced than his, on the results of those sprints
of mine.
The amount of rushing about that the junior clerk
in our department was called upon to endure would
perhaps have fitted him for a good position in the
fire brigade. As I had no leanings towards a fast
kind of life, and was always wondering too how,
when old age or fatness set in (I was as lean as a
lizard at the time), or when some other disability,
such as lameness or rheumatism, for instance, pre-
vented me from any longer emulating the antelope, 1
would continue to hold down the job, I was, there-
fore, made less disconsolate than I would otherwise
have been by a typewritten notification from the man-
agement, one fine morning, that, owing to a slump in
trade, my services would no longer be required.
Blissful weeks, spent in swimming, fishing and
other diversions, followed. Summer, in fact, had
ended and autumn was fast merging into winter
before I found myself connected with industry again
I was in the softgoods trade this time, and had
visions of attaining eminence in it. My foot was
now on the bottom rung of the ladder, so at least I
had been informed, and only hoped that the bottom
rung wouldn’t become unstuck or something. Per-
haps I’d have been in that warehouse to this day if
the manager of the packing department hadn’t mis-
laid his waistcoat.
The mishap occurred one morning when I was
busily engaged filling a large case with rolls of cloth.
When the case was about half-full, I suddenly remem-
bered that my cigarettes, the boards for the lid and
the hammer and nails were still inside it. I had
omitted to remove them before commencing to pack.
Despite the delay and the fatigue occasioned by hav-
ing to take out one by one all the bales of dress
material, I, well knowing that there was great need
for haste, soon had the work done and was hammer-
ing with unwonted precision and, if I remember
rightly, a certain inexplicable and peculiar satisfaction
as well, some very long nails through the lid, when
the manager of the packing department suddenly
appeared on the scene.
“Nails won’t do, my boy! Nails won’t do! ”he
exclaimed in an aggrieved tone of voice. “For
heaven’s sake use screws!” Thereupon, after taking
off his waistcoat, he grabbed the nail-extractor, and
after twenty minutes of strenuous endeavor succeeded
in removing one of the nails I had, with such verve
and gusto, hammered in. Saturated with perspiration,
his starched collar crumpled and soiled, he then
desisted, and, mumbling to himself, retired to his
private office in order to cool down, I suppose, leaving
me to pull out all the rest.
I had finished screwing the lid of the case down
and was painting “Use Fewer Hooks” with boot-
polish on the sides, when the manager, looking more
worried than ever, emerged from his private office
again.
“Have you seen my waistcoat anywhere about?”
he asked anxiously.
“No, sir,” I replied.
“Didn’t you see me take it off just a while ago
before giving you a hand there?”
“Now you mention it, sir, I believe I did.”
“Where is it then?” he demanded fiercely.
“I haven’t the faintest idea, sir,” I replied.
“I wish you’d look for it,” he growled fretfully.
“My keys are in one pocket.”
We all, with the utmost diligence, searched high
and low, but the waistcoat could not nevertheless be
found. Suddenly, however, a thought struck me.
“Perhaps, sir,” I suggested, “you left it inside the
case when you were showing me how to pull nails out,
and without noticing I may have”
“You screwed the lid down!” he snarled with un-
necessary vehemence and rancor.
“I did, I fear, sir,” I murmured regretfully.
“Get that lid off again!” he shouted, now very
wrathful indeed. “And be quick about it.”
Only partly by me, for by this time I was becom-
ing exhausted, the lid was removed at last. The
waistcoat, however, was not, as expected, on top of
the goods in the case after all. Quite by accident
I found it next morning while tidying up the cloak-
room. It had fallen off the peg upon which it had
been hanging into a bucket of disinfectant which hap-
pened to be below. The bunch of keys that helped
to sink it was still in one pocket. I was nevertheless
presented not long afterwards with another indetermi-
nate period of leisure. The proximity of spring, how-
ever, softened the blow.
WANTED:
New Story Writers
Each month The Bulletin ’ is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short 1500 to 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates
£2 2s. for each 1000 words.
Closing date for the second monthly com-
petition is August 7. The sooner entries are
sent in the sooner they can be read and the
judging completed.


the “propagandist press” on the raw. Because “we
hunt too many bagged foxes in our propagandist
press,” he says:
We thought wrong about the Abyssinian and the
Spanish wars. About Austria we were told that Dr.
von Schuschnigg had practically the whole country
behind him; and about Czechoslovakia that democratic
Dr. Benes was beloved by everyone except the tiresome,
swashbuckling Sudetens; and about Spain that Dr.
Negrin was a sort of Spanish Baldwin, bent on curbing
the passions of rival factions.
He holds that “for too long we have been trying
to fight the dictators with printers’ ink” splashed
about with that sort of purpose.
In face of all the evidence to the contrary, three-
quarters of our newspapers have been sending out a
flood of muddy misinformation and fraudulent flip-
pancy with regard to Germany, Italy and Nationalist
Spain 1 write this weighing my words, and with
first-hand experience of how rumors grow into “news-
stories” in the bars of foreign capitals, and how lunch-
time gossip becomes “the opinion of authoritative
sources.”
Some examples:
There was the recent rumor that Germany had asked
Rumania to dismantle all her industries, announced in
the Sunday papers, and denied in Bucharest and Paris
next day. There was the statement that Germany had
mobilised against Czechoslovakia on May 21, 1938: it
was given immense publicity, and its refutation very
little. So with the landing of 40,000 Germans in
Morocco, and the “massacre” at Badajoz, and the
“annihilation” of Guernica, and the last fairytale from
Spain, told by the Leader of the Liberal Opposition
in the House of Commons, and widely published, that
General Franco devised infernal machines to look like
chocolate boxes in order to maim the children of his
enemies... .Nothing is too fantastic to be printed, and
unfortunately to be believed.
His simple explanation of what must be to many
people a strange mystery:
The mischief-makers and malice-mongers have an
advantage over responsible writers. Lies are often
amusing or exciting, whereas the truth is frequently dull,
especially if we don’t want to hear it. A man who goes
to Germany and reports that the Ftihrer is loved by the
people is a bore, and may be a dupe, and, anyway, he is
certain to be unpopular in the present circumstances,
whereas one who reports that Hitler is going mad,
or has quarrelled with all his generals, is sure of an
interested public. We used to be told the same sort
of yarns about Mussolini at the beginning of the
Abyssinian war.... What would Left-Wing newspapers
have said, by the way, if there had been dozens of
bombs exploded in Germany, as there have been recently
in England?
He thinks that up to about March, 1938, “we
were more at fault in this wretched campaign of in-
vention and distortion than were the dictatorship
countries, but since then they have been repaying us
in our own coin ; repaying us with interest.”
We co-operate to stop drug-smuggling; why cannot
we do something to limit the currency of political dope
which arouses the most dangerous passions of man-
kind?
In a chapter dealing with Communist activities
in Europe since the War he makes it clear why those
Baltic States would rather fight than come under any
Moscow Pact. He instances that in 1918 some 6000
persons were murdered in Finland, or fell in the
struggle against Communism ; in Estonia Communists
shot 3000 small shopkeepers because they were “capi-
talists as recently as 1935 Lithuania had peasant
revolts inspired by Communists. After listing a fright-
ful record of murderous Communist activities in most
European countries, he mentions the recent apparent
changes in internal Soviet policy.
But has Stalin changed his skin? I do not believe it
for a moment; and, what is more important, the
neighbors of Russia do not believe it either. Stalin is
well aware that he has no chance of influencing the
Poles, Rumanians or the Baltic States, but he nopes
to be able to undermine the more distant democracies
from within by adopting their formulae and methods.
At heart, however, he remains a Marxian materialist,
the faithful follower of Lenin.
A little chapter of post-Lenin history:
When Lenin was buried on January 27, 1924, the
guard of honor standing by his hearse was changed
every 10 minutes. Little did those mourners anticipate
their fates!
The first guard consisted of Stalin and Kalinin, who
are living, and Zinoviev and Kamenev, who have both
been shot.
The second guard consisted of Molotov, who is
living, Bukharin and Rykov, who were shot, and
Tomsky, who committed suicide to escape the Ogpu.
The third guard consisted of Djerjinsky and
Chicherin, who both died, Petrovsky, who has dis-
appeared, and Sokolnikov, who is in prison.
The fourth guard consisted of Kourbaetcheff and
Orjonikidze, who died, and Piatakov and Jenekidze,
who were both shot.
Out of 16 Heroes of the Revolution only three are
living in freedom; six have been shot as traitors, and
one has “suicided,” four are dead, one a convict, and the
fate of one is doubtful.
Wandering through the general European jungle,
Yeats-Brown comes in time to Spain, and here is a
pleasant item from his Spanish collection:
In Malaga I met a girl who was waiting for the
trial of six men who had killed her father with an
axe, and had wounded her brother, and then finished
him by soaking his head in petrol and setting it alight.
They had soaked her clothes in petrol also, and wanted
their pleasure of her, otherwise there was a lighted
match She was mad with terror, and does not know
to this day how she was saved by Franco’s cavalry.
There, before my eyes, were the men accused of
having done these things. They, too, seemed half-
wits. Could she have invented the story? It is a
common story in this civil war, and it was corroborated
in this case by the sergeant who had rescued hen I do
not know the result of that particular trial, but when
I read that 16,000 priests have been murdered by the
Popular Front in Spain and some 300,000 other innocent
people, the majority shot without trial, and some
fiendishly mutilated and tortured, the aspect of those
prisoners in Malaga comes to my mind.
Another item from the Spanish collection:
Up to July 31, 1938, the Nationalists [Franco’s side]
had brought down 809 Russian aeroplanes and 139
French. Russian material captured included 84 tanks,
71 guns, 577 heavy machine-guns, 35,912 rifles, 91,000
shells, 60,425,000 rifle cartridges. French material cap-
tured included 24 armored cars, 85 guns, 112 heavy
machine-guns, 22,400 shells, 24,000,000 rifle cartridges.
After that date “enormous stores of artillery,
machine-guns, rifles, ammunition and aeroplane parts”
were captured, and “further immense supplies, suffi-
cient to have continued the fight in Catalonia for many
months, were taken by the Republican army across
the passes of the Pyrenees. There is no truth, as the
French can now see with their own eyes, in the state-
ment that Franco won his Ebro victory by weight of
material.”
In the considered opinion of Yeats-Brown, the
nigger in the European jungle all along has been,
and still is, Communism.
Injuns.
Though he’s closer to the G. A. Henty of the
fightin’ books for boys than to the Farnols and Geor-
gette Heyers of historical romance, John Jennings has
crowded so much love-making and derring-do into the
887 pages of Next to Valour (Hamish Hamilton) that
it’s at least a colorful performance. It is packed with
Scotsmen and beavers and Red Indians, and the girl
Jamie kisses on page 887 is called Purity.
Jamie, who tells the story in the first person, was
born in the Scottish Highlands, and in his teens saw
his father go riding off to the ’Forty-five ; he had an
exciting time himself helping a wounded Jacobite to
escape from the Duke of Cumberland’s redcoats. The
father was killed, and Jamie and his mother emigrated
to America. Jamie goes strolling about Boston by
night, and there, ahead of him in the darkness, is
Mistress Dorcas Drew. And there by the tavern dooi
are three drunken villains.
“ ’Od’s blood, Jonas,” he [not Jamie] hiccupped,
‘‘here’s an answer to thy prayers, man! As fine a wench
as ever lay abed! Come, lass, give us a kiss!”
It was Jamie’s cue.
“Leave be, ye dog! Leave be, or I’ll slit your gullet
to gie ye a taste o’ your ain blood!”
Dorcas wasn’t sufficiently grateful.
Her tone piqued me and I grew haughty.
“Madam” I began.
Penitent, Dorcas put her hand on his arm, and
she kept it there more or less till page 800, when
Purity at last came into her own.
Jamie and his mother left Boston for the back-
woods shortly after the doings by the tavern. They
settled down to pioneering, and Jamie was quite happy
sawmilling, trapping and piquing Purity ; but then —
psst! Injuns! Bad Injuns who drank firewater and
scalped the pioneers.
Between scalpings, Jamie married Dorcas, piquing
Purity as she had never been piqued before. But
much as he loved Dorcas, he loved Honor more, and
he dashed off to be in at the fall of Quebec. While
Dorcas sported with his shady cousin Hubert, Jamie
suffered hardships and wounds and the unjust accu-
sation of doing the spying for the French of which
Hubert was guilty. Unmasked, Hubert shot Dorcas
by mistake, leaving the way clear for what is to happen
on page 887.
The "Society of Irresponsibles."
In the Stephens-Furphy-Daley days of our
literature the Australian Society of Irresponsibles was
born —the brain child of A.G.S. Apparently the idea
was to bring writers into closer fellowship—a fellow-
ship not too rigidly bound by serious regulations.
A letter written me by Grant Hervey in 1903
bears the inscription in green and gold letters “Office
of the Australian Society of Irresponsibles,” with the
society’s truly irresponsible motto: “I frew him
against the tank!” The printed list of office-holders
was: President, A. G. Stephens ; vice-president, Albert
Dorrington ; musical director, Victor J. Daley ; resi-
dent secretary, Grant Hervey; treasurer, Archd.
Walker ; legal manager, Joseph Furphy.
Hervey (only recently recovered from a bout
with typhoid fever in Perth Hospital, W.A.) wrote:
“I came east a week or two ago to recuperate, and
A. G. Stephens having started the above society in
a Quixotic and truly irresponsible moment, lam going
to push the thing along ; and, believe me, lam some
pusher when I take a thing into my mind, as my
friends can testify.”
Although the movement obviously got beyond the
stage of nebulous discussion from which so many
similar things fail to emerge, it faded out, greatly to
Joseph Furphy’s regret. In a letter vaguely dated
“Jan. 6 ” he wrote: “It is a deplorable thing
that the A. 5.0.1. should fall through. The inception
of the idea, by A.G.S., was something like an in-
spiration. But it would require some sort of head-
centre, some Noble Grand, some Worshipful Pan-
jandrum—though this person’s authority would be
merely nominal, and his duties equivalent thereto.
Now, A.G.S. is too busy (moreover, though a fine
fellow, he is too despotic in manner); G.H. is incur-
ably volatile; VJ.D. is hopelessly lazy and negligent.
J. F. Archibald is absorbed in other matters ; Alex.
Montgomery is, I fancy, too exclusive and retiring.
Dorrington might take it on, or perhaps Norman
Lindsay. I had some thought of writing to the latter
about it. The business —such as it is—would be more
relaxation to an artist than to a writer. Of course,
G.H. would be the ideal Mumbo-Jumbo, if he could
only be steadied down.”
Some time later Furphy laid the matter before
Arthur Davis (“Steele Rudd”) and forwarded his reply
to me. Davis thought the idea of reviving the society
an excellent one as it “would provide a fine oppor-
tunity for fellowship and humor.” I believe he agreed
to accept the secretaryship.
In years of bush rambling I lost track of further
efforts, if any, to revive the society; but there should
be scribes and artists of other days who remember
its birth and demise.
C.H.W.
The Morrison Myth.
H. S. Montgomerie, whose book, William Bligh of
the Bounty in Fact and in Fable, was issued in 1937,
has now developed one of the arguments there used in
The Morrison Myth (R.P. 21/6/’39).
Mr. Montgomerie is a supporter of Bligh, and
the Journal of James Morrison, boatswain’s mate
of the Bounty, being one of the chief witnesses
against Bligh, meets with his unsparing condemnation.
There are 44 pages of text in The Morrison Myth,
and ten times Mr. Montgomerie refers to the Journal
as a “concoction.” He has seen it only in its published
form (Golden Cockerel Press, 1935), and its editor, Mr.
Owen Rutter, did not use the original, but a copy, lent
to him by the trustees of the Mitchell Library.
Mr. Montgomerie mentions the use of the Journal
in 1870 by Lady Belcher, and adds: “Then, after
a further period of total eclipse, the Journal (having
only the remotest connection with New South Wales)
appears in the Mitchell Library, where it had eluded
research for many years.”
One might ask what constitutes the total eclipse
of a manuscript. The history of this one is
well attested from the time it was given by
Morrison himself to Peter Heywood. From Heywood
it descended to his stepdaughter, Lady Belcher. She'
bequeathed it to the Rev. A. G. K. L’Estrange, who,
,in his turn, bequeathed it to the Public Library of
New South Wales. These facts are admitted by Mr.
Montgomerie, and it follows that the manuscript was
no more and no less eclipsed than any other in pri-
vate possession. After affirming that in the Mitchell
Library it “had eluded research for many years,” he
adds that “it is finally brought into the light of day
by Mr. Owen Rutter and the Golden Cockerel Press
in 1935.” It did not elude research in the Mitchell
Library, for publicity was given to its receipt by the
library in 1921. Because it was thought inadvisable
to dispatch the original from England during the war
years, a copy was made there in 1917 and sent out,
and it was this copy which was lent to Mr. Rutter.
And far from being totally eclipsed or eluding research
there, it had been on public display at various times,
and was very frequently shown to interested visitors.
As for its “remotest connection with New South
Wales” —the Mitchell Library already possessed Bligh’s
Remarks on Morrison’s Journal, and it was surely not
inappropriate that the Journal should join the answer.
Also in this institution are Bligh’s own Log of the
Bounty, his Providence log and sketchbook, Lieutenant
Tobin’s Providence log and sketchbook, the narrative
of Fryer, the Bounty’s master, and a mass of Bligh’s
letters and other documents, the whole constituting by
far the finest Bligh collection in existence. And there
is Bligh’s connection with New South Wales as its
Governor.
Much could be said regarding Mr. Montgomerie's
general criticisms of the Journal, but I must confine
myself to one point, his argument about the date of
its “concoction,” since there he joins issue with myself
as reviewer of his previous book (R.P. 16/6/’37). He
sticks to the assertion there made that the earliest
possible date of the Journal is 1795, and gives as a
proof that Edward Christian made no reference to it
in his Short Reply to Captain Bligh’s Answer, pub-
lished in 1795. Lack of reference thus becomes dis-
proof of existence, while my quotation of what must
be a direct reference, and of an earlier date, is cast
aside as of no value.
Quoting the letter in the Mitchell Library, which
I adduced as proof, in which the Rev. W. Howell
wrote to Captain Phillips on November 25, 1792, he
adds in parenthesis: “According to J.L.,” and again,
“There is (says J.L.) a postscript.” If he doubted the
authenticity of this letter, why did he not write to the
Mitchell Library for confirmation of it?
The letter concerns, firstly, Morrison’s Narrative,
which the writer says he will have in the course of a
few days, and will then send it to any place Captain
Phillips may wish. He then writes: “Morrison is get-
ting very forward with his publication, which will be
ready for the press in about six or seven weeks.” And
he indicates that it will not concern Bligh or the
mutiny, but only the subsequent events and the island
of Tahiti. He speaks of Banks’s good opinion of
Bligh and his own contrary one, and offers to let
Banks see the “publication” before it goes to press. As
Banks was evidently well known to both men, I sug-
gested in my review that it might be through Banks
that Bligh saw Morrison’s Journal and was in a posi-
tion to write his “Remarks” on it.
Mr. Montgomerie accuses me of careless reading
of this letter, which, he declares, could not have re-
ferred to the Journal, because it is stated that “nothing
will be mentioned that may tend to any disturbance
or reflect on any character.” But surely it is Mr.
Montgomerie who is careless. The writer referred to
two documents —the Narrative, which he would send
in a few days, and the publication, which was to be
ready for the press in six or seven weeks. And the
allusion in the first part to his own and Banks’s views
of Bligh’s character suggests that the Narrative was
concerned with it.
My further statement that the Journal must have
been in existence before 1795, since Bligh evidently
saw it and replied to it, is dismissed on the count of
date, since Bligh’s reply is undated, and my plea of its
authenticity on the count that Bligh was replying to
some other “concoction,” and not the one published
by the Golden Cockerel Press. To follow Mr. Mont-
gomerie through the latter argument would take far
too much space.
J.L.


The wise man says
on an evening gay,
sa
CCT*
IV/ see Johnnie Walker
walks my way!”
Stick to Johnnie Walker for an evening
and in the morning you’ll stride as
briskly as Johnnie Walker does himself.
Its specially clean and refreshing taste,
the purity and age of the fine whiskies
from which it is blended, make a meeting
with Johnnie Walker a pleasant one—
and pleasant to look back on.
-JOHNNIE
WANKER
walks away with it!
Obtainable in the famous square bottle
and in handy flasks of smaller size.
m
n
p
Born 1820
Still Going
Strong!
John Walker & Sons, Ltd., London, Kilmarnock, Sydney
JW.96.8


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ai/,
&
ALEXANDRA PALACE.
On the “highlands” to the north of London, though now almost an inner-suburb of the ever-growing Metropolis, is Muswell Hill, a
desirable locality with many charming residences, occupied chiefly by opulent “City” businessmen. Muswell Hill is very much in the
world’s limelight now, for here is located the Alexandra Palace, the headquarters of “the television industry,” which promises to
revolutionise the whole business of wireless as at present understood. Probably no great place intended for popular amusement has had
a less fortunate career. Completed in 1873, as a sort of north London rival to the Crystal Palace, it was destroyed a fortnight later
by fire. In May, 1874, a new Palace had arisen, and, though not on such pretentious lines as the south London rival, it had a fine hall
with a grand organ and every facility for musical festivals on a big scale. These did not eventuate. A theatre provided drama, and
outdoor and indoor fetes were held. Still the public did not patronise the Palace. A racecourse and well-laid-out cricket ground failed
to produce the desired change, though the race meetings came nearer success than any of the other aids to popularity. The meetings
were never regarded, socially at least, of the “A 1 order.” It is a depressing story continued up to the closing years of the last century,
when the Middlesex County Council and other administrative bodies secured the Palace with its seven acres, racecourse, cricket ground,
etc., etc., for somewhere about £160,000. In the war years it was put to other services, and since Armistice meandered on as it were to a
goal that seemed much a will-of-the-wisp. But the goal was nearer at hand than could be deemed possible. Baird had-plodded with his
television invention, and in due course this “new marvel of science” secured world recognition ; consequently Alexandra Palace is to-day no
longer a sort of Cinderella, but “Television Headquarters,” and visited by scientists and other interested people from every quarter of the
civilised globe. As the future of television, commercially, is not as yet known, though regarded as assured, so too the future of the
Alexandra Palace, owing to its association with the results of the genius of Baird, would appear to be also assured.


THE MIGHTY SOVIET WAR MACHINE SWINGS INTO ACTION.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch (Ails.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
POMP AND CIRCUMSTANCE.
A Federal system was necessary to Australia at the
beginning of the century, when no other sort of part-
nership would have been accepted. Unfortunately,
bad features of the colonial systems were preserved,
and in process of time they have grown worse, while
the Commonwealth Constitution, for various reasons
ambiguous wording, conflicting interpretations, un-
foreseen industrial developments and unforeseeable
mechanical inventions —has proved defective at many
points.
When the Afrikanders decided to come together,
after the great and generous gift of self-government
had been bestowed upon the people of the extin-
guished republics, they made it their business to find
out how the Federal system was working in Australia.
They decided that one Parliament with supreme and
unchallengeable powers would be plenty. Events have
proved that they were very wise.
It is not possible to do here and now what the
Britons and Boers of the sub-continent did in 1909,
but the same result could, and should, be achieved
gradually. That is to say, by the transfer of powers
and services to the Commonwealth ; by the strength-
ening and simplifying of the Constitution, at the
instance of the overburdened people, and by the sur-
render of duplicated departments like those of Health
and Navigation, and of botched jobs like education,
which surrender, by a proper exercise of the financial
control which has passed inevitably to the national
authority, could be forced.
The gaps in and the imperfections of the Com-
monwealth Constitution have been pointed out a
thousand times. They are brought home to the
traveller whenever he reaches a provincial border in a
privately-owned vehicle carrying passengers or goods,
although freedom of inter-State trade, commerce and
intercourse was supposed to have been guaranteed to
all citizens by Section 92. And what it costs to main-
tain seven Parliaments, seven Governments, seven
Government Houses and a multitude of departments,
courts, boards and commissions is maddeningly indi-
cated to every Australian who receives demands for
two, three or more taxes on the same income, taxes
which are often imposed on income which is never
received.
In the pass to which things have come, people
resident in some States are taxed for the upkeep of
grossly extravagant establishments in other States.
This aspect of the question has received a fantastic
illustration in Tasmania.
The area of Tasmania is 26,215 square miles, and
its population is reckoned at 234,000. It is less than
a fourth of the size of the Transvaal, and has less than
a sixth of the population. There are more people
in Johannesburg than there are in the whole of Tas-
mania. The Transvaal gets along with an Adminis-
trator (salary £2500 p.a.) and a Provincial Council of
57 members.
Tasmania has a Governor (British), at £3OOO p.a.,
and a Lieutenant-Governor who received £125 during
the year to June 30, 1938. During the same year
“his Excellency the Governor’s establishment” cost
£6444. Tasmania also has an Agent-General in Eng-
land whose show mopped up £5322 in 1937-38. There
are a Legislative Council with 18 members, elected
for six years, and a House of Assembly with 30
members, elected for five years. In “allowances” these
legislators receive £19,620 p.a., £250 for the leader of
the Opposition included. In other salaries and “con-
tingencies,” the Assembly absorbed £2847 in 1937-38
and the Council £1778.
Ministers share as members in the £19,620 men-
tioned and cut up another £6500. They are allowed,
in addition, “travelling expenses, car hire and miscel-
laneous expenses” (they can travel free as. well over
all Government railways in the Commonwealth and
M.L.), and in 1937-38 they spent in these directions
just on £2OO more than the authorised amount, which
was £l5OO.
In 1923, when the population was 219,000 (it
never increases much), there were four Ministers and
another without a portfolio. The Premier, Mr. Hayes,
was his own Minister of Lands, Works and Agricul-
ture, and the experience couldn’t have hurt him, for
he has since been a Senator for 16 years. There are
now nine- Ministers —a Premier “without portfolio,” a
Treasurer, an Attorney-General and Minister of Edu-
cation, a Minister of Land and Works, a Minister of
Agriculture and Forests, a Chief Secretary and Minister
of Transport and three others, called honoraries. Nine
Ministers for 234,000 people, and only provincial
matters to attend to!
This bad joke began when it was discovered that
Canberra could be written down as an unfailing source
of easy' money. From Canberra the Government
which has nine Ministers received in 1937-38, from
the proceeds of Commonwealth taxes, £575,000 in one
grant. This was 33.88 p.c. of the amount raised in local
taxes, £1,697,100, and of that £422,800 came from a
tax on lotteries, the greater part of which was paid
by mainland speculators. The Commonwealth also
contributed £266,800 towards Tasmania’s annual in-
terest and sinking-fund payments. It also supplied
large sums for expenditure on Federal-aid roads and
works (£175,000), forestry (£4980), mining (£1700),
apple and pear bounties (£30,500) and artificial-
manure subsidies (£23,300) and in other ways. It
periodically comes to light with contributions to the
losses on soldiers’ settlements, having thus provided
£667,700 when the subject was last mentioned, and it
has undertaken to find £360,000 for Tasmanian
farmers’ debts.
In fact, Tasmanian Government finance has
become chiefly a matter of biting the Commonwealth
Administration’s ear for as much as can be got. Nine
Ministers and two Houses of Parliament are not re-
quired for this function. Neither is Government House
nor the London office. Tasmania could be sufficiently
well served by a Provincial Council, with an Admin-
istrator, Australian by birth or adoption, at £l5OO to
£2OOO a year. The pomp of its current imitations of
Westminster and Buckingham Palace is wasteful and
ridiculous.
Australian City Blackouts.
Over in England just now they are experimenting
with city blackouts against the possibility of air raids
in another war. Quite unnecessary, this, in the Aus-
tralian cities of Melbourne and Sydney, where, as a
legacy from the last war, blackout occurs nightly as
a matter of course. Heralded by the ritualistic chant
of “Time-, gentlemen, please!” the six o’clock curfew
introduced as a necessary war-time measure is to this
day enforced, with the result that Australia’s two
greatest cities go dead immediately after dusk.
Information on the introduction of the curfew in
Melbourne is appropriately headed in the Victorian
Year-Book “Law, Crime, etc.” Prior to 1915 trading
hours of hotels in Victoria were from 6 a.m. to 11.30
p.m. That year they were reduced to 9 a.m. and 9.30
p.m. by Act. A patriotic public having taken this
assault on its liberties without grumbling, the next
assault —15 months later —fixed the closing hour at
6 p.m. “during the period of the war.” This also
meeting with little opposition, wowserdom decided to
hop in while the going was good, and a couple of
months later the curfew was made “permanent.” So
it has remained for 23 years.
In Sydney the measure was first introduced to
make control of military training camps easier. Under
the War Precautions Act, the Minister for Defence
early in 1916 ordered that all licensed premises m
the County of Cumberland, and in places within five
miles of any military training camp in the State, should
be closed at 6 p.m. On second thought this was con-
sidered too drastic, and the closing hour was advanced
to eight o’clock. But wowserdom had tasted blood,
and soon authorisation for a referendum was being
pushed through the State Parliament.
The referendum took place in June, 1916, the
electorate being given a choice of closing hours rang-
ing from 6 p.m. to 11 p.m. Only 54.02 p.c. of en-
rolled electors voted, a total of 347,494 plumping for
6 p.m. and a total of 209,404 for the later hours. On
the strength of that vote, carried on an appeal to
patriotism as a necessary war-time measure, Sydney,
like Melbourne, has for 23 years suffered the six
o’clock curfew.
Other States, which also restricted hotel trading
hours as a means of helping to win the war, have
sensibly extended them again, the latest being Tas-
mania, which makes a point of tourist attraction. It
is past time Victoria and N. S. Wales followed suit.
Huge sums are spent attracting tourists to both these
States also, but one look at their leading cities by
night is enough for most visitors from abroad. They
may venture ashore on the first night, but they usually
remain aboard ship for the rest of its stay in port.
Travellers, of course, don’t go ashore from a
well-appointed ship at night merely to get a drink.
What they look for is the general brightness of people
moving about, alive and enjoying themselves. In both
Sydney and Melbourne they wonder what sort of a
backwash they have drifted into. Instead of any
attraction in the sepulchral darkness, they find both
cities actually forbidding at night, though no more
so than do these cities’ inhabitants, by now so accus-
tomed to wowserdom’s curfew that they have com-
pletely forgotten the liberty they once enjoyed, and
would blink with astonishment at the bright night
aspect of any leading city abroad or even in the other
States.
If it was only to get a drink after curfew that
attracted tourists ashore or citizens abroad at night,
there would, of course, be plenty of people about.
Nobody believes the administration of the curfew law
to be anything but farcical. This is as good as ad-
mitted by high Authority. In Sydney, following
decisions in the courts, it is given out that “early
action will probably be taken by the State Cabinet,
either to amend the present Liquor Act or to
enforce it.”
It is known that the police would welcome such
action, because they consider that the present open
flouting of the Act in many clubs and hotels is bringing
the law generally into contempt.
The answer to this should be that the law is there,
and while it remains it should be enforced. The
responsible Minister is reported as having said that
“the law is not going to be strained unfairly against
decent citizens.” Neither it should be; but without
any straining it is certainly operating unfairly against
decent citizens. That is, unless —as might reasonably
be suspected—the curfew law is to be interpreted as
intended to restrict the liberties only of those who
can’t afford to pay double-price for drinks in the
lounges of hotels where the law is broken every night,
or belong to one of the increasing sly-grog clubs or
one of the drinking-clubs about which there is nothing
either sly or shy, with men, compelled by a law none
of them can respect, crowding six-deep nightly at
their bars.
The open truth of the matter is that, to those who
can afford it, there is no difficulty in getting drink after
hours in either city. The law is thus a complete
failure, which is the only reason why it is tolerated.
Wowserdom must be well aware of the failure, but
is probably too canny to insist on its law being even
half-enforced. Nothing would get rid of this blight on
two cities more quickly than rigid enforcement of
the Acts applying to them both.
Australians, most evidently, will put up with a
great deal, but they are getting to the limits of their
patience over this farcical after-hours business. In
Sydney it has come to the Commissioner of Police
writing to the responsible Minister “asking him for a
direction regarding allegations that liquor is illegally
served in clubs.” The Minister has replied that some
40 clubs are exempt from the Act; also that the law
was not aimed at preventing members of clubs from
keeping liquor in their lockers and asking a friend
along to help knock it off.
This means that when curfew sounds in Sydney
membership of some clubs, costing from the nominal
£1 Is. a year upwards, carries the privilege of drink-
ing from six o’clock onwards, which is denied to the
ordinary citizen —that is to say, the huge majority.
Some of these clubs can —legally, it seems —serve from
six o’clock onwards over the counters of their exten-
sive bars, within 50 yards of hotels which are com-
pelled by law to shut up when the curfew sounds.
No wonder a law which discriminates in that pre-
posterous fashion is broken right and left. Either
the curfew should be made general, without exception,
and the law enforced—which would quickly kill it —
or it should be abolished. Either enforced or given
the present farcical administration it is a discrimina-
tory law —in favor of those who can afford the price ;
and against all those who can’t afford to pay sly-grog
prices, to belong to law-exempt or lawbreaking clubs,
to frequent the sort of hotels in which the law is not
rigidly enforced —and where they would not be served
in any case —or to lay in stocks in their homes.
Apart from its vicious aspects —the criminal dens
it fosters have been in the limelight in both cities
recently—and its effect on tourist trade, the curfew
law boils down to a law operating against nobody
else but the ordinary wage-earner. It took a Labor
Government to put it out in Tasmania ; it may require
the same to put it out where it still flourishes, and
there it should help to put Labor Governments in.
The Unemployment Tragedy.
An “Argus” report of a Victorian Assembly debate on
unemployment was studded with the word
(“Laughter”). Mr. Zwar said to Minister Mackrell
“You are getting a thousand a year to solve the
problem.” (Laughter.) Mr. Cain said “The solution of
unemployment is employment.” (Laughter.) Mr. Kent
Hughes said he didn’t mind the Premier having a bath,
but “why should it come from unemployed-relief
funds?” (Laughter.) And “the debate ended in laugh-
ter when Mr. Everard pointed to the crowd in the
public gallery” in which there were “well-dressed
women and others obviously not of the unemployed.”
Australians laugh easily, but those who are not
politicians fail to find anything amusing in any aspect
of unemployment. On the contrary, they regard it as
a most serious matter, and the most recent effect of
it, the wave of juvenile crime, as alarming and tragic.
In Sydney especially, there has been a startling suc-
cession of burglaries, shop and garage holdups, gar-
rottings and other crimes of violence, all committed
by- boys (sometimes with girl associates) who have
never come under the discipline of a steady job, and
who have thus had all too much leisure for studying
American crime magazines, looking at the smutty pic-
tures in American periodicals, going to see gangster
films and listening to the mob-orator’s propaganda of
revolution.
Something will have to be done about it, and
laughter should be cut out of the discussions. The
borrowing-and-spending policy has broken down;
relatively, as well as actually, unemployment is worst
in the State whose Government has done most of the
borrowing and spending, and juvenile crime is worst
there also.
Evidently the people are going to be told, in
N. S. Wales and Victoria anyhow, that increase of
unemployed-relief taxes has become an urgent matter,
regardless of what the Commonwealth Government
will demand to finance its defence programme. But
the proceeds of the increased relief taxes will be spent
as uselessly as the proceeds of the present relief taxes
are spent. Better results would be got by reducing
them, conditionally on taxpayers spending the amount
remitted in giving work —their 1938-39 relief-tax pay-
ments might be taken as a standard. In the result
some men at least would be employed in occupations
for which they have been trained, and some boys put
in the way of learning useful callings. The present
relief-work policy is merely producing a multitude of
relief workers with nothing to look forward to but
more relief works when their generally-useless jobs
have cut out.
Industrial laws of which “the sack at 21 is the
bitter fruit also call for serious reconsideration. “The
sack at 21” looks utterly inhuman, and it has cer-
tainly been the cause of many bitter personal
tragedies; but the question ought to be studied in all


its bearings. “The sack-at-21” employer has never
been heard in his own defence ; and he ought to be
heard. The city-girl question will also have to be con-
sidered in a spirit remote from laughter in Parlia-
ment and from the false romance of the flapper press.
Why is there a shortage of labor in Germany
when, according to the calculations of financiers and
economists, Germany ought to be broke? Why are
there still 10,000,000 unemployed in the United States
when the U.S. national debt has been doubled in six
years, chiefly to give work to the workless? Is it part
of the explanation that in the country with 10,000,000
unemployed women have got men’s jobs, and that in
the country with the labor shortage they have been
expelled from men’s jobs? Such questions are disturb-
ing, the minds of Australians who have not the slight-
est sympathy with German methods of government —
no real Australian has —but those who have the order-
ing of their destinies ignore them.
On the evidence of the eyesight, the proportion of
young women employed in Australian cities con-
stantly increases. Between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. Wynyard
and Flinders-street stations look like the back-stage
effluent from scores of theatres. Against the employ-
ment of those who need the work and do it for fair
trade-union pay there can be no argument, but of
how many can these things be said? In most big
city offices (even in Government departments) mar-
ried women are to be found ; in all, girls whose entire
pay goes in making themselves look beautiful, as the
flapper press tells them they are.
It may be necessary in the larger interests of the
nation .to set definite limits to and prescribe new
rules for the employment of women in callings from
which they have ousted or are ousting men ; but a new
breed of politicians will be required to introduce and
enforce them.
WODGIL.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
"A Lull" on All Fronts.
Things were quiet in Europe last week —so quiet that
even “S. M. Herald” reported “a lull” and consigned
its last Major Crisis to oblivion. The next Major
Crisis is fixed for August, when “the German General
Staff, in the event of war, would have the benefit of
several weeks of fine weather to carry out... .a con-
tinuous initial offensive followed by rain,” having
first made all the necessary arrangements with J.
Pluvius.
Things were quiet in Tientsin also, though in
Japan Jingoes were letting off steam, as Jingoes do
everywhere when they feel like that. Tokio discus-
sions between the British representative and the
Japanese Foreign Minister had been arranged. “It is
believed” got a great airing during the uncanny “lull,”
and “it was believed” that the Japanese were putting
off the talks until the Moscow palavers had ended,
one way or another. Of those palavers, the Man-
chester “Guardian” remarked, with a hollow groan,
that the Russians “were deliberately procrastinating.”
There was no change for the better in the attitude
of the U.S.A. It was hoped by the Stunt Press that
the Senate would somehow overrule the House of
Representatives and accept for its country the part of
“positive” action assigned to it two years ago by the
Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” and more recently recom-
mended to it by “S. M. Herald” and a Mr. T. S. Gurr.
Vain hope ; Mr. Roosevelt, whose intentions are ex-
cellent, failed to secure a majority for Neutrality Act
revision even in the Foreign Affairs Committee of the
senior Chamber.
Mr. Chamberlain referred to the situation at
Danzig in a well-phrased speech—the speech of an
earnest man struggling with difficulties which are not
of his making. He repeated that “we have guaranteed
to give our assistance to Poland in the case of a clear
threat to her independence which she considered it
vital to resist with her national forces,” adding, with
emphasis, that “we are firmly resolved to carry out
this undertaking.” He admitted, however, that “the
present settlement may be capable of improvement”
and reminded Herr Hitler and Colonel Beck of
speeches in which they had expressed their willingness
to negotiate. He reminded Danzig also of the ancient
traditions of the Free City and of the proofs it has
afforded that “different nationalities can work together
when their real interests coincide,” while acknow-
ledging that “recent developments” have “disturbed
confidence” and “rendered it difficult at present to find
an atmosphere in which reasonable counsels can
prevail.”
Mr. Chamberlain remains a force for peace, and
there is nothing to show that the feelings of the West-
ern European peoples, who, though they have common
ties of race and religion, are unfortunately divided
into two groups, have changed since September.
Then it was made crystal-clear that none of
them wanted war. They know, and their leaders
know, that war would bring fearful sufferings
and calamities upon them all. In that knowledge
lies the greatest hopexff preserving peace and of bring-
ing about reduction of the crushing burden of arma-
ments. But what a blessing it would be if all the
propaganda machines and all the scaremongers and
all the snarlers could be silenced for at least a month!
Law or Disorder ?
Communists gave birth to the crazy notion that the
national register should be “boycotted”—that is, law-
lessly resisted. In Melbourne last week a show called
the A.C.T.U. executive and another described as “a
conference of key unions,” each consisting of brisk
boys from Trades and Labor Councils and the like,
ordered the general body of trade-unionists, without
previously consulting them, to defy the law and take
the consequences, undertaking to “support” them some-
how if they were fined or gaoled. Mr. Crofts, secre-
tary of the A.C.T.U., intimated that he was prepared
to be a martyr:
1 am an old man of 69, but I would stand three
months in prison rather than see my children brought
under the provisions of this Act.
Why Mr. Crofts should seek the crown of mar-
tyrdom in such a case it is hard to understand, unless
the old gentleman feels that he needs a rest from the
atmosphere of nark and grizzle which distinguishes
the A.C.T.U. There is nothing in the Act to justify
resistance to the point of illegality and self-sacrifice.
The only objection which might be offered with some
reason is that it is proposed to create another board.
Old gentlemen who have socked away Government
securities, hoping to dodge death duties, are growling
fiercely, but it was never before thought that the
A.C.T.U. and “the representatives of key unions”
would surge up as champions of them.
Briefly, the Act calls for the taking of two cen-
suses. Every male in the 18-65 group is to state his
age, country of birth, origin on both sides of the
house, marital condition and dependants, with ages
of children ; his state of health, if blind, deaf, dumb or
crippled ; whether an employer or an employee, un-
employed or a pensioner ; if employed, in what craft
or occupation ; if unemployed, for how long in the
past year. Mr. Crofts is exempt from filling in
that card.
A second card calls for a census of wealth on
June 30, 1939. It is to be filled in by individuals and
concerns with assets worth £5OO or more. Where
husband and wife jointly own property worth less
than £lOOO they both are exempt. All others are re-
quired to write down the assets they possessed on
June 30: —
Cash in hand; savings bank deposits; money at
current account in banks; fixed deposits in banks and
building societies; Government and public securities;
shares, debentures; amounts owing on mortgages or
otherwise; value of stock in trade; value of live-
stock, plant, machinery, tools, vehicles, rolling stock,
. furniture and fittings for trade purposes; value of land
and improvements separately, or of moieties therein;
net value of interests in leases; syndicate shares or
interests; value of household furniture, effects and
vehicles; value of interests in trust estates; value of
other property, outside life assurance and friendly
society policies.
The card-filler is expected to weigh his bank overdraft,
mortgage liabilities and debts, and strike a balance.
The cards have been issued, and the census —it
should have been called that —will close on July 29.
There is nothing terrible about it. It is simply part of
an effort to organise the nation for the defence of
its possessions and its liberties.
So resistance will be unpatriotic as well as law-
less. If practised to any extent it will compel the Gov-
ernment to resort to drastic measures to enforce a
law duly passed by the representatives of the people
and assented to by the representative of the Crown.
There will be cancellation of radio-station licenses and
refusal of the use of the mails. There may be a
general election. And a general election would place
Federal Labor at an immense disadvantage, even
though Federal Labor counsels acceptance of the law.
But neither drastic measures nor an appeal to the
country may be necessary. Already tails are drooping
and vicarious martyrs are looking for an easy exit.
Stevens Finance.
The Sydney Government has done some more reckon-
ing about the result of the 1938-39 financial year,
and there is still more to come. Its first estimate,
published at the end of September, was that there
would be a surplus of £7785. Correcting itself at Can-
berra it asked, first, that a deficit of £1,700,000 should,
in Mr. Micawber’s expression, be “provided for”;
then one of £2,800,000. When the twelvemonth
closed it gave the amount as £2,801,400. Last week
this had got down to £2,748,400, but “these,” the
principal U.A.P. organ states, “are approximate
figures, and when the accounts are finally made up
the deficit may be somewhat different.”
Last year the approximate figures showed a surplus
of £114,200, but the final figures reduced that surplus
to £53,800.
The Auditor-General “reduced” it out of sight. That
officer coldly reported a deficiency of £418,500, increas-
ing the accumulated deficiency to £30,643,900.
Details of revenue and expenditure do not bear
out Mr. Stevens’s assertion, quoted by the Prime
Minister to the Loan Council, that the “serious posi-
tion” had “developed during the last two or three
months.” Increased expenditure was the main trouble ;
excluding Hunter Water Board figures —the Hunter
Water Board was granted “financial autonomy” from
July 1, 1938, so that it might become a “semi-Govern-
ment borrower” —expenditure was up £1,757,100.
Government railway revenue was down £59,200, but
it was still £20,029,200. Railway expenditure was up
£1,138,700, and tramway and bus expenditure £251,900 ;
and “other Government departments” spent an addi-
tional £724,500. Interest on Australian loans shows
an increase of £203,800, an effect of the borrowing
and spending policy, though overseas interest, as a
result of Bruce conversions and national sinking-fund
operations, was down £236,800.
Wages tax and special income tax turned in
£6,363,900, a decline of £585,100. They were originally
imposed for unemployed relief, but the great thought
came to the Government that part of the proceeds
could be used for “social services,” chiefly family
endowment and widows’ pensions, and another part for
urgent general expenditure such as globe-trotting,
increase of Parliamentary pay and the like ; so the
unemployed’s share is not great. The significant fall
in last year’s yield was almost balanced by the drop
in expenditure on “social services,” which was reduced
by £574,500 to £5,261,200.
Details of the loan expenditure of the Govern-
ment and its “semi-Government authorities” are not
given. The Government is shrinkingly modest in
these matters, but the Sydney Water Board alone is
playing up £3,000,000 a year, guaranteed by the Gov-
ernment, and the latter went through £8,260,900 in
1937-38, £7,182,500 in 1936-37 and £9.491,108 in 1935-
36. During seven years to 1937-38 “the loan liability
to the Commonwealth increased by £66,058,500 to
£354,167,200,” the Auditor-General has noted. How-
ever, enough has been admitted in Macquarie-street
to engender the doubt whether N. S. Wales, .though
naturally one of the richest portions of the earth, can
stand State Parliaments and loan-drunk Governments
and the One Big City congestion policy, which stifles
the natural growth of country towns, without going
bung.
Wirraways in the Air.
The delivery of the first three Wirraway aeroplanes
built in Australia from an American model brings
within reach the moment when all the R.A.A.F. train-
ing machines will be produced in Australia.
For fighting purposes, the Wirraways are not
ideal for Australian conditions. They are general-
purpose two-seaters, wifh nine-cylinder engines de-
livering 600 h.p. at 7000 feet. By modern standards
they are not particularly fast —220 m.p.h. is about
their working limit at any height.
Nevertheless, they are excellent advanced train-
ing machines, and the 132 to be delivered by July next
year will be a substantial accession of strength for
the R.A.A.F., which already is drawing first-stage
trainers from De Havilland’s Tiger Moth factory in
Sydney.
Meanwhile, big advances have been made in the
reorganisation of the R.A.A.F. training system to meet
the needs of the new fast long-distance machines
which soon will be in use in the service—Lockheed
Hudsons, Beauforts and a secret fast fighter. Hitherto,
training has been restricted to two terms at Point
Cook (Vic.). The new schedule will begin in Sep-
tember and will extend over three terms each of 15
weeks. At the end of the second term, cadets will
receive their wings.
It is proposed to absorb 50 new students every
term and to turn out 100 to 120 pilots per annum.
This is better, but it is not good enough. Machines can
be built much faster than pilots can be trained. There
should be an ample reserve. Especially as the next
three or four years will see such an expansion of
civil flying that commercial air companies will be
scratching for pilots and ready to absorb the R.A.A.F.
surplus and keep them in form for emergencies.
The Wheeled Death in Victoria.
Last year there were 19,305 road accidents in Vic-
toria, involving death to 436 persons and more or less
serious injury to 7682 others. In the same time acci-
dents in factories numbered 2432. In such cases com-
pensation is provided for ; but as often as not nothing
can be recovered for the widow and the fatherless from
the killer in the car.
The Dunstan Ministry proposes to remedy this
situation by a system of compulsory insurance. Under
the bill compensation will be practically certain for
every sufferer by the negligence of a driver, even of
the hit-and-run persuasion, since the vehicle itself will
be insured. Personal responsibility of drivers for
their actions will not be affected. To guard against
the wild individual who may be inclined to take ad-
vantage of his financial immunity, insurance companies
will be permitted to apply for the suspension of the
license of a reckless driver or one too prone to use
his car as a lethal weapon.
Part of the plan provides for a Government
insurance office. Premiums will range from 30s. p.a.
for city cars and 20s. for cars used outside a metro-
politan radius. There will be a penalty of £lOO or
three months’ gaol for owners who permit the driv-
ing of uninsured vehicles.
At present a bare 50 p.c. of motor vehicles are
covered by insurance.
Paradise in the Pacific.
“Gain”: About the nearest approach to Paradise any-
where is Nauru. It consists almost entirely of phos-
phate, and it has no politicians, flapper newspapers,
Communists, debt or deficit; in fact, it has £53,000 of
accumulated capital from surpluses. Normally, the
Administration collects about £25,000 in revenue, and
expenditure is about the same. When £30,000 was
realised in 1937 from the sale of Coronation stamps,
tax-revenue for the year was all clear profit. Some of
the money went to provide an automatic telephone
exchange.
The happy native of Nauru has no cares. The
Commissioners pay the native landowners sd. per ton
royalty on phosphate. Another Hd. per ton is used
for the benefit of Nauruans, and 24d. per ton is in-
vested for the natives at compound interest. As the
price of phosphate goes up, the royalty increases.
Annual value of phosphate exported is round £550,000,
and as import needs are only £272,000 there is a
nice turnover. The return from phosphate sales is
equal to about £60,000 per square mile of the whole
area of the island.
There are 1684 Nauruans, and half of them have
savings bank accounts averaging £25. A total of
£47,000 also is invested for the landholders. About
£2 10s. per head is spent on native education. To
deal with deficiency diseases there is free distribution
of fresh onions, tinned tomato, pineapple and a yeast
product.
The Nauruan pays no taxes worth mentioning—
only £l7O last year from dog licenses and motor regis-
trations. He doesn’t even have to dig the phosphate he
draws royalty on. The Commissioners import Chinese
coolies to do that ungentlemanly task.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“De Facto”: “Save wisely that you
may spend wisely,” says the Common-
wealth Bank slogan on my last pay-
envelope. On the back is a recipe for
spending wisely on what are called nut-
ties. You start with half a pound of
butter, a cup of sugar and an egg and
go on with such imported delicacies as
cinnamon, dates, vanilla essence and
“chopped nuts” (exact variety not speci-
fied). There is even mention of a couple
of cups of flour. Previous week’s slogan
was: “Pence, Pounds, Prosperity,” and
on the back was a richer recipe which
began with nine eggs. Just the thing for
basic-wagers.
V 4* »»'
“C.Q.”: The Victorian Commission on
Bushfires did not attach any importance
to the focusing of the heat of the sun's
rays through glass or broken bottles as
a cause of conflagrations. Yet it is re-
ported from London that a girl walking
in Hyde Park suddenly burst into flames,
the explanation being that a glass orna-
ment on her hat had caused the trouble.
The temperature was 82deg., merely a
warm day in the Australian summer. The
temperature on Black Friday in Victoria
was nearer 120, and 115 is common in
some places.
* * * *
“Fedup”: Influx of Southern Euro-
peans? Nonsense. Haven’t we the assur-
ance of Commonwealth Ministers and
even of Dr. Earle Page, for good measure,
that the thing doesn’t exist? So it must
be purely coincidence that branches of
the Bank of N. S. Wales in Melbourne’s
“Little” streets, and even one in mighty
Bourke-street itself, display window-
cards appealing for fixed deposits in
Italian, Spanish, Greek and a couple of
other languages which look weird enough
to have hailed from the Balkan penin-
sula. There is no notice in Yiddish yet,
but that is probably on its way from the
printer.
* 4= « #
“Juris”: In a Sydney inquest on a man
who died of an overdose of picrotoxin,
a seldom-used drug, while undergoing
treatment for a brain ailment in Royal
Prince Alfred Hospital, the public learned
that, if a medical practitioner makes a
risky experiment on a patient and kills
him, the practitioner is not criminally
liable. In the case in question, the pro-
fessor in psychiatry at Sydney Uni., W. S.
Dawson, was in charge. He had read
reports of the use of picrotoxin in the
“8.M.J.” and American medical journals,
and though he had no personal experi-
ence of the drug’s effects he' considered
it safe to try it on his patient. The resi-
dent medical officer of the hospital, who
gave injections under Prof. Dawson’s in-
structions, and Dr. J. A. McGeorge, who
arranged for the patient’s admission to
hospital, disclaimed responsibility. The
coroner, remarking that the administra-
tion of the drug was “apparently largely
an experiment,” and that it was “an
extraordinary thing” that Prof. Dawson
“undertook to administer it without con-
sulting other members of his profession,”
returned a verdict of accidental poison-
ing. The professor’s mistake, he added,
was not the result of carelessness.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Considered as
a projectile, the average motor-car at fair
working speeds is rather a fearsome
affair But of course you can “stop her
in a wink,” and all that sort of thing.
Some stickybeaking quack has been tim-
ing winks, and finds that seven a second
is a high average limit —at 60 m.p.h.
nearly 10ft. per wink for the old bus.
Even at 30 she does 6ft. in every wink.
The moral is, don’t wink when driving.
Another idle-minded pill-merchant has
worked out the reaction time of an ordi-
nary normal sober person to an emergency.
It is seven-tenths of a second, increasing
at a disgusting rate after the n.p. has been
at grips with a spot or two. Even with-
out the spots and at a mere 30 m.p.h., it
means that he will have travelled 30.8 ft.
before the old hooks and hoofs begin to
get busy on wheel and brakes, or even
off the accelerator. Meanwhile the aver-
age 30001 b. bus puts in a 40 foot-ton
punch on any stationary object. The
moral is—oh, dammit, pick one for your-
self!
“You remind me of Itler!"
“Madero”: Australia is helping Mus-
solini and Balbo to revive the old Roman
glories of Libya. The three kinds of
trees that are being planted to hold back
the drifting sands and to reclaim the
wilderness round Tripoli and the site of
Leptis Magna are the eucalyptus, the
wattle and the local tamarisk. The
Italians have planted hundreds of thou-
sands of Australian gums and wattles,
which are doing a good job. One of the
things for which the trees are wanted is
to hold back the sands from the site of
the Carthaginian and Roman city of
Leptis Magna, which the Italians are
excavating.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Is there any fantastic
drivel about the Nazis and their leaders
that people won’t swallow? Sydney
“D.T.” records—on the front page—the
statement of a Yank professor on his
return home that Hitler keeps a staff of
five astrologers who advise him before he
makes important moves. Anyone who
imagines that the professor and the
“D.T.” aren’t having their legs pulled is
invited to consider the play cartoonists
would have made with the Fiihrer’s five
astrologers if there had been an atom
of truth in the story. The fact that a
daily will publish such colossal nonsense
helps me to understand the mentality of
a Sydney woman who said to me in a
discussion as to whether there was any
possible chance of Kingsford Smith’s still
being alive, “How do we know the Nazis
haven’t captured him and are making
him work for them?” She was perfectly
serious.
“S.T.S.”: The only two Lutheran col-
leges in S.A. (and, they believe, in Aus-
tralia) have been quick into the field to
repudiate any ghost of association with
the cheerful suggestion of the “Deutsche
Allgemeine Zeitung.” It is—as cabled —
that “60,000 Australian settlers of Ger-
man descent, who were once divided by
confessional feuds, are now organised
under the Swastika.” Immanuel College
says: “We have nothing to do with Hitler.
This is an Australian institution, and not
connected with Germany.” Concordia
says: “Our boys and girls would not un-
derstand German if we used it as a
medium. We teach it as a subject, as
do all the other schools.” As a fact, the
German settlers of S.A. came to Aus-
tralia close on a century ago to escape
Prussian domination and get religious
freedom. Their migration was financed
by the Englishman G. F. Angas, who
came here himself and founded a great
pastoral family. His importations from
Denmark and South Germany helped
largely to form the State’s admittedly
steady backbone; and its war memorials
everywhere are full of Mullers and
Schmidts who died for Australia.
* * $ *
“Rio del Ouro”: Gold teeth are
exempt from the census of gold to be
held in Japan. Like the gold nibs of
fountain-pens they are left out owing to
the difficulty of recovering the gold in
them. Yet in the aggregate gold to the
value of hundreds of millions of pounds
is buried in graveyards all over the globe
and every day adds to these dead de-
posits. A few years ago, when gold teeth
were commoner than they are now, a
dentist reckoned that on a rough esti-
mate the citizens of Australia were carry-
ing in their mouths over £500,000 worth
of gold. On that basis the people of the
U.S.A. were probably biting on over
£10,000,000 worth. Perhaps the gold is
no more useless buried in cemeteries than
it is in bank vaults.
* * * *
“D.F.”: A “S.M.H.” Saturday con-
tributor dismisses Australian epitaphs as
. a fl „• „
commonplace . and proceeds to give a
mixed lot of imported examples. None
of them comes up to the epitaph in the
old Bunnerong cemetery on a young
woman run down and killed by a pub-
lican driving home from the races:—
Oh, Hennessy, you did me kill,
And would not pay the doctor s bill.
At Esperance (Tas.) is a tombstone to
the memory of a man described on it
as “brutally and feloniously killed” by
another. The inscription adds: “A jury
acquitted him but Vengeance is mine, I
will Repay, saith the Lord.” A child’s
tombstone at Hamilton (Tas.) has:—
This little innocent child
To Sunday school had trod,
But sad to tell was burned to death
Within the House ot God.
* ‘ ’
Erua : A recently-reported case of a
young man who stole various attractive
trifles and presented them to the girl
friend for her glory-box had a distin-
guished parallel some years ago in
Maoriland. The M.L. youth was enam-
ored of the daughter of a well-to-do
country household, but the lady’s parent
lorbade marriage until there was evidence
that he could provide the girl with a
suitable home. The young man took a
cottage on the outskirts of the village
and announced his intention of furnish-
ing it. In six months he had a home so
complete with modern furnishings that
there was no excuse for postponing the
wedding. AH this time householders in
neighboring towns had been complaining
of the disappearance of rugs, chairs, pots,
china—in fact, anything portable—but no
suspicion attached to a worthy young
man known to be preparing a home for
his bride. And if the lady some weeks
after her marriage had not chanced to
hang out for an airing a very handsome
and unusual rug, just at the time the
rug’s rightful owner went motoring by
and recognised it, the tale might have
ended happily. As it was, a houseful
of stolen goods, a gaol sentence, the
young man’s escape and final disappear-
ance provided M.L. with an exciting
further six months.
'l* '!'
“Spokeshave”: Cole, of the Book
Arcade that is now no more, was
an extraordinary individual who would
have made a hit in any circumstances.
Born in Kent in 1832, he started
in a small way in Melbourne with
a modest turnover of three pounds
a week, which increased to £20,000. He
was full of ideals regarded as fantastic
in those days. He believed in the Brother-
hood of Man and the Federation of the
World, and was an implacable enemy
of the White Australia policy. All this
made him a public figure. One of the
chief attractions of his shop was a black
employee who slowly turned white during
the course of his service. In addition to
Cole’s Fun Doctor, there was a Cole’s
Book on Love, composed of snippets cut
from everywhere and anywhere by an'
assistant and lumped all together on the
ta ke your choice principle L°ng be "
fore the aeroplane came Cole had offered
£10(X) tQ the fim aviator to land in front
Q f shop, and when Harry Hawker
was maki flights at Caulfield one of
Cole > s daught ers was the first person to
with him. What with his cage
of mo nkeys, his ideals and his stunts,
Cole’s shop was an exciting place to
work in, and although Mrs. Cole used
to sack employees regularly once a
week most of them stayed on through-
out Cole’s lifetime,
* * * *
“Marsh”: A “special correspondent”
writes of a deadly new type of aerial
bomb that is being used for the first
time in history by the Japanese. The
bomb on exploding hurls its contents
laterally, none of the pellets rising more
than a f ew f ee t a b ove the ground. The
correspondent is about 23 years late, the
“daisy-cutter” type, as we used to call
jt ? having been used by Turco-German
airmen during the Palestine campaign,
When scores of camels had their legs
chopped off below the knees by
bombs dropped from an enemy air-
raiding squadron, the know-all of our
mob said that the bombs were British-
made and had come into Fritz’s hands
when Russia turned it in.
THE GLAMOR GIRL.
Who wouldn’t be a glamor girl, a certain-to-
enamor girl?
What joie de vivre in her life is given her to
cram,
The dinkum sex-appealing girl, the subtle-
charm-revealing girl,
’Mong men the havoc-dealing girl—in short,
the girl with glam.!
’Tis fine to be a pretty girl, or just a gay and
witty girl,
And obviously to be both is rightly counted
jam,
But even more desirable, and clearly less acquir-
able,
Ts that mysterious quality denominated glam.
Would Helen’s face-seductiveness have wrought
as much destructiveness,
Would Antony have followed Cleopatra like
a lamb,
Unless those ladies’ vanities for snaring male
humanities
, Had been associated with a quantum suff. of
glam.?
Who wouldn’t be a glamor girl, a downright
sickle-’n’-hammer girl,
Wherever there are hearts to raid or rival
craft to ram,
A feminine divinity for all in her vicinity,
An ever-sought affinity, the girl with heaps of
glam.!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Hawkshaw”: According to newspaper
accounts the search for the long-missing
Mr. Woolcott-Forbes, badly wanted in
Sydney to explain various peculiar finan-
cial transactions, is being conducted with
a blind sort of frenzy. In Paris a man
just like Woolcott-Forbes except that he
was seven stone lighter and six inches
shorter was haled out of his bed by
officers of the Surete. The industrious
Detective Nye, despite whose eagle eye
The Bullfighter ducked out of Bombay,
is reported to have been searching “half
Europe for three weeks,” but that must
be mere speculation, for that same re-
port says that “his movements mostly
have been so secret that not even Sydney
police headquarters have known them
all.” So far the trails of the indefatigable
Nye have led to persons who couldn’t
by the remotest stretch of imagination
be mistaken for the Dashing Punter who
wanted to come out as a U.A.P. candi-
date.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Talking of unusual Chris-
tian names (B. 21/6/’39), I know a lady
whose parents loaded her with six, the
initial letters making V.1.0.L.E.T. The
case is probably unique, outside royalty
and the like ; and then she married a
man who had four Christian names, this
also being of the rarest, and the “double”
almost incredible. I think something
severe ought to be done to parents who
inflict their sense of humor on the
innocent child. I have known a Halfpenny
who made his girl still more conspicuous
with the name Glorious ; and a Gabriel
“All clear down below? Give the 'arness a rub up while I'm mendin' this."
"I'll send this one home to the mater."
who called the daughter Angel. While
about it, I would hand out a heavy
sentence also to the unimaginative parent
who christens his boy William Charles
or the like.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: A new variety of
salesman interrupted me this morning.
As I opened the door he held up six
pencils and remarked in a “refined” voice:
“These, sir, are a totally different line
from anything offered by any other sales-
man. They are of absolutely rotten
quality, the lead always breaks, falls out,
or isn’t there. The only reasons which
induce me to sell them are that they
are easy to carry, and at the extortionate
price of 2d. each, which I ask, every
six I sell return me the price of a pot
of beer in addition to a handsome profit.
Half a dozen? Thank you, sir, one
shilling. Now, as I have explained, the
pencils are so utterly inferior that you
will never be able to make any use of
them whatever. I would therefore sug-
gest, in order to save you any later feel-
ings of grievance at having been taken
down, that you allow me to take them
away with me. I thank you for your
courtesy in a transaction which has dis-
gusted me as much as it doubtless has
you. Good morning.”
* * * *
“J.E.L.”: Sillier acts than that of
Percy Lindsay’s drunk feeding his pal
to a man-eating shark (B. 5/7/’39) have
been perpetrated by booze artists. Ten
years ago three marines from Portsmouth
Barracks, England, returned “on board”
in the happy but stupid stage of tipsiness.
One of them was firmly convinced that
he was William Tell and nothing less
than a rifle and apple would satisfy him.
Another sat the apple on his head and
invited a shot. The subsequent official
inquiry failed to discover how the rifle
came to have in it the bullet which,
with the right direction but an inch-low
elevation, sped to its billet.
¥ * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The second Saturday
in July saw the Grand National run in
Melbourne as usual, but 35 years ago it
also saw the finest neck-and-neck race
between windjammers ever witnessed in
Port Phillip. The Jessie Craig, Kathleen
Hilda, Hirotha and Emerald, all barques,
left various M.L. ports for Melbourne
late in June, 1904. After fighting head
winds all the way across the Tasman Sea
they reached the Heads practically to-
gether in the s.-e. gale in which the
steamer Nemesis was lost with all hands.
Anchoring inside until daylight they then
hoisted every available stitch and, with
the gale still in good going shape, boomed
up the Bay before it. News got round
Melbourne, and more people watched that
race than saw the Flemington event. At
Gellibrand Lightship, the finishing point,
Jessie Craig led Hirotha by three lengths,
with Kathleen Hilda close astern and
Emerald a bad last.
* * *
“Ming”: One of the most extraordi-
nary concert incidents on record occurred
in a Maoriland city some years ago when
a well-known negro singer, resident there
and a successful teacher of aspiring
vocalists, was listed to give his most im-
pressive performance, “The Erl King.”
The large hall was packed with music-
lovers, among them a local teacher who
had decided to give a 14-year-old niece
a treat by letting her hear some really
good stuff. The girl, a sensitive, impres-
sionable youngster, was totally unprepared
for the realism with which the dark vocalist
invested the eerie song, and early dis-
played symptoms of hysteria. As the
singer and orchestra became worked up
so did she, and presently her wild shriek-
ing vied with both. Her horrified rela-
tive made efforts to quieten her, and then
desperately began to drag her out of the
hall. Through all the commotion the
singer went on unperturbed, quite evi-
dently taking the incident as a tribute
to his power to sway his audience. The
final triumph was his, for, as the girl
reached the exit, and he finished the
song, he received the ovation of his
career.
* * * *
“Dhas”: Did some poor innocent de-
clare in last week’s Bulletin that “S. M.
Herald,” because she had added a skirt
to a photograph, was waging a war for
respectability? I can only refer him
delicately to her theatre advertisements
in the issue of July 14, where she has
perpetrated an error that really arouses
my sympathy for all concerned. Why
is it that when the old girl goes gay she
always does it so devastatingly that the
ribald are happy for weeks afterwards?
* * * #
“Lord Luvus”: As an art patron and
promoter of academies and the like, our
( Prime Minister has great prestige with
| the public, but at least one distinguished
artist does not share its high opinion.
Menzies was opening an exhibition of
the painter’s year’s work (containing, as
Whistler would have said, the knowledge
of a lifetime) at the Melbourne
Athenaeum, and, having eased himself of
the usual stream of platitudinous incon-
sequentialities, suddenly paused, glanced
at his watch and said with an engaging
smile: “Well, it’s 3.30, and I know you
all want to be at the M.C.C. watching the
Test match.” This quip from the great
man was received with genial approval by
some, but not by the painter. Goodness
knows what might have happened if the
rising Mr. Menzies hadn’t taken his own
hint and been one of the first to vanish
through the doorway.
* * * *
“K.P.”: Australia’s most useful string
of horses lives in Melbourne. It carries
no racing colors, and its component nags
are not distinguished for breed or beauty,
but it saves a lot of Australian lives
every year. Its job is to be inoculated
weekly for three months with increasing
doses of virulent diphtheria germs, and
then to be bled to a moderate degree.
The serum, containing the antibodies
which have developed in it, is separated
from the corpuscles, sterilised and tested
for potency against known strains of
diphtheria germs. The corpuscles are kept
alive in a warm incubator and returned
to their original owner, saving it the
strain of producing new ones. The whole
process is painless, the horses remain per-
fectly healthy and are treated as pets.
The serum reduces the human diphtheria
mortality rate from 50 p.c. to less than
10 p.c. in the average run of cases, more
when used at the earliest stages of onset.
For immunisation, formol-toxin is used,
containing no serum and needing no
animals.
PS FOR POLICEMEN.
“N.S.W. Police Commissioner Mackay has estab-
lished a training school where recruits are in-
structed in polish, personality and poise.”
Patience and pluck in plentiful amount
Are qualities that definitely count,
Combined with perspicacity, of course,
For pushing fellows forward in “The Force.”
To pack a pow’rful punch (in the event
Of need) is also an accomplishment
No person of perception will decry.
And further p’s Commissioner Mackay
Is now providing for his blue-clad boys
In polish, personality and poise.
To help a peeler up promotion’s step
A valuable attribute is pep.
He should exhibit, too, a proper pride
And pleasure in his calling dignified.
Promptness, moreover, he must plainly show
In laboring pro bono publico;
Presence of mind is also bound to tell,
And dogged pertinacity as well.
And to the list there now must added be
Polish and poise and personality.
To look the part and to prevent complaint,
He must be hard as nails and fresh as paint,
Whether pursuing bandits in the bush
Or dissipating some pugnacious “push.”
Fleetness of pace you may include, and sav-
Oir faire among the things he ought to have.
No petulance should make him “go off pop,”
But, oh! he’ll never be a perfect cop
Until all obstacles he can demolish
With poise and personality and polish.
No matter if they’re raiding fan-tan joints
Or plying their perfesh at traffic points.
Dealing with _ nightbirds homing in their cups
Or possibly impounding homeless pups,
Enforcing order or preserving peace,
They’re moving rapidly, the new police,
From those old codgers with the heavy hand,
All curt direction and the brusque command.
All past-and-gone delusions he destroys,
The bobby who persistently employs
Polish and personality and poise.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


9/Z Jo * 001
9/1 J °i 0?
01
JOJ
OS
JOl
a 6
■&r
W
m
Far greater
(
stnaking enjagment
••
CRAVENA
Voq
/
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Many crazy things have been done in
the name of “Industrial Labor” since
Left-wingers got control of the Sydney
Labor Council, and hence of the
A.C.T.U. executive. Workers have been
the sufferers, for the Reds have not only
lost elections, but have never won a boy-
cott or a strike. Workers won’t be the
only sufferers if lawless defiance of the
National Registration Act, recommended
to them by the Reds, becomes a reality.
For one thing, the T. and L.C. mob will
lose their 2KY broadcasting license again,
and this time they won’t get it back.
Lang’s “Century” describes the
A.C.T.U. “boycott” of the national regis-
ter as “political madness” and “a gift to
Menzies.” It is also a gift to Lang.
“There is a lull in Europe August will be the critical month.” — “S. M. Herald.”
“Yes, the patient is showing a decided improvement.”
“Oh, doctor, he’s sure to have a bad relapse next month.”
It has arrested the slump in his stocks
and given him a sword wherewith to
smite the Heffron faction, which has
sought refuge in silence.
Dr. Page, explaining once more why
he has given up the case:
The national leader must have courage,
judgment and loyalty. Mr. Menzies does
not possess these qualities.
So the doctor won’t consent to be called
in, even as a consultant.
In the years that the locust hath
eaten, Mr. Gullett referred to Dr. Page
as “the tragic Treasurer.” Afterwards
Mr. Gullett joined the Ministry in which
Dr. Page was the tragic Treasurer, and
the interesting pair were for four years
colleagues in another Ministry five
years altogether. During those five years
the feud was allowed to slumber, the
national interests demanding it. Now
Mr. Gullett has discovered that Dr. Page
is “the world’s worst loser.”
Billy has been sub-editing himself.
Curtin having said that the national Par-
liament is tragically deficient in national
powers, Billy agreed, but added a rider —
as reported in the third person and the
past tense: “One thing it could do —
and apparently was in a fair way of
doing it was to tax the unfortunate
citizen out of house and home.” That
appeared in an afternoon paper. In a
morning paper it was toned down to
“the power to tax....so wide that by
its exercise the individual and the com-
munity could be brought to their knees.”
The Rothermere and Beaverbrook
newspapers, the “Daily Mirror,” the
“Daily Telegraph,” the “Liberal”
organs (“Cronk-News” and Manchester
“Guardian”) and the Yorkshire “Post”
(which belongs mainly to the Eden
family) have been trying to force
Churchill on Chamberlain as a Minister.
House of Commons support has been
lacking, except in the case of Churchill’s
own clique—London “Truth,” quoted by
Sydney “Sun,” says they are known as
“The Glamor Boys”—and Churchill is
still a back-bencher. There could be
no more striking example of the Power
of the Press.
Discoveries of a radio announcer who
has been writing for a paper called the
“Gutzer,” or some such name:
New Zealand’s Finance Minister Nash is
more hopeml, generally, of the success of
his mission. Main objective is the renewal of
a loan of 17 millions. He proposes to use
the money, in the main, for the purchase of
commodities.
Hints of a Nazi minority in Queensland,
organised by 83 licensed Lutheran pastors,
caused disquiet.
Nobody bothered to point out that pur-
chase of commodities with the proceeds
of a renewal loan would be an operation
unique in finance. But the Nazi (and
very nasty) insinuation was denied by the
president of the Evangelical Lutheran
Synod, who said that the Synod for a
hundred years has been “loyal to the
British throne and the laws of Australia”
and .“would promptly discipline pastors
guilty of inaugurating and encouraging a
NaZ inA^ a ? lSa u lon -” . In Si dental , ly J there
are 19.000 Lutherans in Queensland.
Cheering item for N.S.W. taxpayers:
Mr. 8., of the Crown Solicitor’s office,
secretary of the N.S.W.
Government office in London, and will leave
Sydney at an early date. Mr. B. will succeed
Mr. W., who has been appointed secretary of
the Films Commission. Mr. R., secretary
to the Premier, was appointed to the staff
of the London office, and he left Sydney
with the Minister of Health, Mr. Fitz-
Simons, as his private secretary. When
Mr. FitzSimons concludes his European
tour Mr. R. will take up duties at the
London office and Mr. W. will return to
Sydney with Mr. FitzSimons as his private
secretary.
The N.S.W. Government office in Lon-
don, the Films Commission, Mr. Fitz-
Simons’s European tour, his two secre-
taries’ trips and his Ministry (one of
seven) are all superfluous. Thrice super-
fluous, as it were, seeing that Mr. Fitz-
Simons’s superfluous Government has
gone £2,800,000 to the bad in one year,
apart from borrowing.
Communists had high hopes last week
of working up an “Invergordon” in the
R.A.N. Their “Workers’ Weekly” rap-
turously announced that a stopwork
meeting of dissatisfied ratings would be
held on Monday morning at Circular
Quay, Sydney, and that, though Minister
Street and the Naval Board might not
be present by invitation, “nearly 2000”
a.w.l. bluejackets, presumably flashing
copies of the “W.W.,” would be. There
was no meeting, and the unrestrained
mirth of matlows swarming through Cir-
cular Quay to join their ships left the
impression that the R.A.N. pulled Com-
munism’s leg. Apropos, an Invergordon
ringleader was one of the heroes
of the Red International Brigade
(“the greatest fighting force the world
has ever seen”) which won so many
desperate newspaper battles in Spain till
there were no more newspaper battles
to be won.
Refugee-immigration figures are more
remarkable for variableness than exacti-
tude. A “special correspondent” of
“S. M. Herald,” which is grandmothering
the new arrivals, asserts that in three
months of this year 1316 arrived in
N.S.W., and that in four months 2985
came into the Commonwealth. The
annual limit is supposed to be 5000. In
the same issue it was mentioned that the
British Government is cancelling its
arrangement for admitting 7500 Jews
into Palestine “during the next quota
period, October 1 to March 31,” because
“there has been an organised traffic in
illegal immigrants.”
By collusion with inhabitants innumer-
able Jews are reaching Palestine in
foreign ships, owned and manned for the
most part.by our “allies” the Greeks.
Present circumstances are unfavorable to
that kind of thing in Australia, though
the possibility cannot be ruled out; but
there is nothing to prevent Jews arriving
as ordinary passengers and remaining in
the country disguised as Dooley and
Smith. In a City Court case in Mel-
bourne, in which a Mr. Callinan sued a
Mr. Springer for £35, alleged to be due
for “handling the applications of per-
sons desirous of entering Australia,” at
£5 a nose, the traffic in immigrants was
referred to by defendant’s counsel as a
“racket.” The case was dismissed, with
£8 18s. 6d. costs against Mr. Callinan.
Australian Government support for the
“pact” with that “great and powerful
nation” Russia is urged by Isaac Isaacs,
already a hero to Reds because he wrote
in a book that the Port Kembla (N.S.W.)
boycott of B.H.P. pig-iron sold to Japan
would “find a place in our history beside
the Eureka Stockade.” Possibly Isaac
Isaacs will be invited to find some his-
torical parallel to the “boycott” of the
national register. The same gang are
behind it.
Not all the wordspinners are in N. S.
Wales. Hamilton’s no-confidence amend-
ment in the Maoriland House was ex-
pressed in just on 600 words, the last
“count” (there were eight) containing 108.
Captain Davey, of the Awatea, has a
much terser style. The skipper is in
trouble for saying “Nobody works in this
blasted country,” though he says he was
referring to stowaways.
In Britain last week the price of wheat
fell to the lowest level for centuries.
Limitation of exports is suggested by
Canberra, and the Governments of three
wheatgrowing States are willing, though
not enthusiastic. But Dunstan says he
can’t see any good in it for Australia.
City politicians and newspapers have
a certain use for the woolgrower—always
when their thoughts turn to “sanctions”
they expect him to be the mug. Just
when the outlook for wool was brighten-
ing it occurred to “S. M. Herald” that
Japan could be brought to its knees by
an embargo on exports—British, Ameri-
can, Indian, Dutch and, of course, Aus-
tralian. Two days later it was reporting
that “50,000 Japanese, yelling anti-
British slogans, demonstrated for two
hours in part of the British Embassy in
Tokio.”
Before Premier Ogilvie died so sud-
denly it was thought in Tasmania that
he might succeed Harold Crisp as State
Chief Justice. Actually, the appointment
will go to J. D. Morris, who was
Ogilvie’s partner for nine years, joining
the firm at 27 —he is only 36 now. He
will be acting C.J. until Harold Crisp’s
retirement next April, but has already
entered on the duties of the office, the
C.J. having gone on long leave. Obvi-
ously the McCawley precedent was re-
membered. There was fierce opposition
in Queensland when McCawley was
named C.J., but he had lived it down
long before his too-early death.


RETURNS IN THE CARRYING BUSINESS.
“Jessie, the Taronga Park elephant, who has carried 60,000 children a year for 57 years, is reported to be going blind.”


BETTER AND
BETTER
EVERY DAY!
The mirror reflects doily improvement
in your complexion when you regu-
larly take Yeaston Tablets of pure
live yeast . . . they give that clear
lovely skin that denotes health from
within. Sparkling eyes . . . cheeks
glowing with health and color . . .
glamour that's natural . . . with
Yeaston's system - cleansing power!
Chemists everywhere sell Yeaston
Tablets: 36 for 2/-; 100 for 4/6.
YE ASTO N
YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age ? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian CATHOLIC Assurance Co., Ltd.,
commenced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since.
Few offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD..
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
* Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL..
Follow the hundreds who have
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V.- G.P’o., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
PERSONAL ITEM S
Hubert Leslie Primrose, who fills the
gap in the N. S. Wales Cabinet
occasioned by the demise of Minister for
Labor Hawkins, and who kicks off as
acting-Minister of Health (FitzSimons
being somewhere in Europe), was born at
Cootamundra, N. S. Wales, started as an
accountant on the Sydney City Council
staff, studied law, and became a full-
H.L. PRIMROSE.
fledged Gent. One in 1917. For six years,
1926-32, he was Mayor of North Sydney.
He’s a pillar of the N.R.M.A., a past
president of the A.A.A., plays golf, and,
as Dubois insists, likes to spend sunny
afternoons on bowling greens. He en-
tered Parliament as member for North
Sydney in the year he stopped mayoring.
Dan Green, dead in Sydney at 70, was
for 20 years its best-known man-about-
town. Bank clerk, clerk,
A.W.U. organiser, advertising man and
promoter of many things, from sporting
clubs to theatrical enterprises, he led
a full life and enjoyed it. He knew all
the political moves, and, while he
shunned self-advertisement, was re-
sponsible for more than one political
coup. In the height of his glory he had
a suite at the Australia and maintained
a flat in each of four cities. Dan had
a taste for letters, and poets mingled
with men from Tatt.’s Club and the
Stadium at the funeral.
M.L.C. for the northern district of
S.A. and chairman of directors of that
State’s important Farmers’ Union was
H. G. Hawkins, dead in Adelaide at 62.
Few men have known so much about
the land. He had practical experience in
the city in wool, livestock and auctioneer-
ing ; farmed 1700 acres himself, and had
gone to study dairying in M.L. and mar-
kets in Britain and the U.S.A. Like so
many other prominent South Australians,
he was an ardent Methodist.
A many-sided man was Henry
Havelock Ellis, dead at 80. He came of
English seafaring stock, and spent some
years of his boyhood at sea, mainly in
the Pacific, nevertheless picking up a
sound education in private schools ashore.
Between the ages of 26 and 30 he was
a schoolteacher in N. S. Wales. Return-
ing to England he qualified as a medico
and practised for a while, but then found
his bent was towards literature and re-
search. In addition to his monumental
work in reference to the psychology of
sex he was an authority on Elizabethan
dramatists, on Spanish literature and on
the history of economic theory, and wrote
various sociological treatises. His literary
style was attractive, whatever the sub-
ject, and though in his major works, like
Freud, he dealt extensively with sexual
abnormalities he was less inclined than
the Viennese theorist to forget that the
abnormalities do not constitute the whole
sum of experience.
John Demetrius Morris, Acting Chief
Justice of the Speck while Harold Crisp,
C.J., is on long leave, and assured of
the full appointment, is only 36. Born
in Melbourne, he passed through St. Pat-
rick’s College, graduating from the Uni.
in 1924. He was articled to Snowball,
M.L.A., and after practising as a bar-
rister crossed Bass Strait and rapidly
made a name for himself in Hobart. He
was a junior member of the firm of
which late Premier Ogilvie was the head
until last year, when he went on his own.
Henry Maitland Rolland, who is one
of the Big Five deputed to advise Can-
berra on defence works, has been Com-
monwealth Works Director in Adelaide
since 1927. He is the son of the reverend
principal of Geelong College, and was
born in Geelong. A wide knowledge of
Governmental architectural matters got
him the job of Chief Architect on the
Federal Capital Commission during the
biggest rush period of the growth of that
mushroom city, in 1925-27. He is 57.
Found dead last week in Melbourne
at the wheel of a car which narrowly
missed a constable on
point duty, Joseph Nathan,
who founded the Mel-
bourne furniture firm of
Maples, and was a partner
in some of the leading
automobile concerns in the
city. Two others of his
family, nephews, were
badly injured in a car col-
lision on the Hume High-
way recently. Horse-
racing and business were
the dead financier’s twin
interests.
Not the earliest, but the
oldest pioneer in Victoria,
Edward Bennett, of
Briagolong, celebrated his
one hundred and fifth
birthday the other day.
He has spent 88 of them
in Australia. No Vic-
torian centenarian’s life is
complete unless he has
met Ned Kelly, and the
Briagolong veteran when
he was a grazier at Ben-
alla, saw Ned mustering
cattle. Bennett owned the
old Turf Hotel at Sale in
the ’eighties.
E. T. Edwards, a Sydney
graduate in agricultural
science at present in the
U.S.A. on a Commonwealth Fund Fel-
lowship, has been awarded a Doctorate
in Philosophy at Wisconsin Uni. He was
Assistant Biologist in the N.S.W. Dept,
of Agriculture, and will return on the
completion of research studies abroad.
Britain’s new ambassador to Paris, Sir
Ronald Campbell, looks more like a
lieutenant-colonel of a line regiment than
a diplomat. He has a Sydney counterpart
who might be taken for him —Lt.-Colonel
Cosgrave, Canadian Trade Commis-
sioner. Campbell was practically born
and bred in the Foreign Office —his father
was an assistant Under-Secretary. And
he himself served as private secretary to
three noted diplomats and Ministers—
Lord Carnock, Lord Hardinge of Pens-
hurst and Lord Curzon. Then he went
to Paris as minister —there is a minister
assisting the ambassador —and held the
job for six years before being sent to
Belgrade as minister-plenipotentiary in
1935.
Australia’s adoption of the automatic
telephone system was due to the per-
suasive eloquence of Arthur A. Burch,
an American who became a naturalised
Australian. Burch, who died in Sydney
on Sunday at 63, was associated with
telephony in its early days in the U.S.A.,
and occupied important posts with well-
known telephone cos. In 1911 he came to
Australia as the emissary of the Auto-
matic Electric Co. with a working model
of the automatic telephone system, and
stayed on to supervise Australian instal-
lations, which preceded similar installa-
tions in Britain. In 1923 he became
chairman and managing director of Auto-
matic Electric Telephones, Ltd., Sydney,
and held those positions till the end.
Harry Lester, who succeeds George
Murphy as Sheriff of N. S. Wales, has
none of the characteristics usually asso-
ciated with sheriffry. Sheriffs are the
harbingers of doom in the law —the stern
fellows who hale the shrinking debtor to
the dungeon with a writ and who appear
in condemned cells before breakfast ad-
juring their victims to keep calm, as the
drop is only seven feet three. Lester,
after 40 years learning the trade, is still
a smiling philosopher, a believer in the
innate goodness of human nature. He
apparently imbibed something of the
spirit of his first official boss, the effer-
vescent Jack Want, K.C., whose life was
one long episode of good humor. No-
body in the department has seen him
SHERIFF LESTER.
(Modelled by Frith.)
really out of temper or heard him say
an unkind word about his fellowman.
He was born at Petersham (N.S.W.) 58
years ago, and literally has hundreds of
friends. Frith’s model is a striking like-
ness of him.
Roger Vine Hall, who succeeds Forbes
Mackay as general manager of the Syd-
ney County Council’s electricity under-
taking at £3OOO p.a., has had a long ex-
perience with the business both on the
technical and administrative sides. He
joined the service as an assistant engineer
35 years ago when it was inaugurated by
Sydney City Council, bringing with
him a degree of B.Eng. secured at Syd-
R. VINE HALL.
ney Uni. He became distribution super-
intendent in 1917, and later assistant to
Forbes Mackay, and when the County-
Council took over and Mackay became
g.m. Hall was appointed chief engineer.
He has acted as Mackay’s deputy on
various occasions, and has twice travelled
abroad to study new electrical develop-
ments.
•Tarlton Rayment, Victorian novelist
and naturalist, isn’t likely to be found
for a long time yet amongst the band
who complain that Australian writers
haven’t the necessary conditions. Begin-
ning his career as an art student, he gave
that up for the study of natural history
in Victoria. In 1935 he published through
The Bulletin’s Endeavour Press his A
Cluster of Bees, which gained him world-
wide recognition. Then he wrote The
Valley of the Sky, a novel of early Gipps-
land settlement. That remarkably suc-
cessful book gained him a British Em-
pire competition prize in 1937 and came
second in an international novel com-
petition. Then Warner Bros, bought the
film rights and, as several shots will have
to be made in Australia, authorised him
to organise the Australian end of the
picture.
Victoria’s new Governor, Sir Winston
Dugan, was billed to arrive in Melbourne
on Monday. Being a private who rose
to be a general, the new head of the Cab-
bage State must have stood to attention
as a ranker at lots of similar dull cere-
monies to the ones in which he has had
to take the leading role as Governor.
Probably he would have liked to make
them short and snappy, but he was
scheduled to go through the customary
manoeuvres, ending in civic addresses of
welcome on the steps of the Town Hall.
Dugan was popular during his term in
S.A., and he ought to be well liked in
Melbourne. He is over six feet tall and
good-looking, 62 and still an active
sportsman, an admirable speaker and so
accustomed to handling complicated
situations that when he presided over the
court-martial in the celebrated Baillie-
Stewart case he was likened to that legal
paragon Mr. Justice Avery.
S.A. gets a first-class flying-man in
G. A. Cooper, who has been an instruc-
tor at Point Cook and has arrived (just
married) in Adelaide to direct the Aero
Club there.


I’LL TELL YOU WHY I LIKE 333
w
U I like 333’s because, with
thousands upon thousands
of other smokers, I find
that 333’s always please.
e
44 4 Oh!’ you ask, ‘why?’
Because the secret is the
333’s blend—an exclusive
combining of finest Vir-
ginia tobacco which makes
333’s absolutely unique in
their qualities.
il
“If you wish to enjoy the
most in pleasure, in satis*
faction, in economy, you,
too, should ask please for
333’5.”
I
iSiS
yWjI;!
k
w


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: It was a quiet afternoon
in the Riverina town, and the self-made
man, having absorbed a few drinks, was
looking for some entertainment. Enter-
ing the parlor of one pub he found a
slim, dark young man sitting beside the
radio set, from which came the strains
of a rumba, or rhumba, or whatever
they call it. The big man sneered openly.
“That all y’ got t’ do?” The youngster
looked up. “I’m all right,” he said
mildly. “All right, all right!” fumed the
s.-m. one. “Sittin’ about doin’ nothin’!
Why, when I was your age I was seizin’
opportunities right an’ left. Before I was
as old as you I owned land and stock.
Look at me now. I got fifty thousand
acres out there [waving an arm], I got
motor-cars, I got twenty better men than
you workin’ for me. I got four race-
horses an’ a bank account like a blanket.
Do y’ think I got all that sittin’ round
pub parlors? You bet y’r life I didn’t.
I got it by gettin’ out an’ doin’ things.
An’ look at you—what have you got?”
The dark man rose, surveyed his inter-
locutor with a supercilious air, undulated
his hips slowly, and said crushingly, “I
got rhythm !”
* * * afe
“Darken”: Old Tom has a grievance
against mankind in general. I drove a
spike in the wall to hang a template on.
“You’re all the same,” he growled.
“Always at eye-level with your nails and
spikes. In dark corners a man risks
blindness in every barn and workshop
in the country. Can’t you go six inches
higher?”
“Don’t bother to get down to open the gate, Dad”
“Arev”: “The Guvvament’s pretty use-
less,” said old Jack, “but they did show
nous in bringin’ in the bill fer the preser-
vation o’ wildflowers. People useter
come up here from the city in carloads,
run all over the place, tear down
branches of wattle and go home with all
they could tie on their cars. If I went
ter town and helped meself to a few
branches of the street trees I’d be had
up. If they want bush flowers let ’em
pay fer ’em. I’ve got a good idea about
that. There’s no law against a man in
the country sellin’ the wattle he grows,
so I’m goin’ ter put up a notice: ‘Wattle-
blossom fer sale.’ I’ll have bunches all
ready picked, and I • oughter clean up.”
Garry Thomas drew the pipe from his
mouth. “Yer won’t make much sellin’
all yer get off them two trees on yer
block,” he said. Jack curled his lip.
“Two trees be blowed!” he said. “There’s
tons er the stuff down on the Guvvament
road near the creek.”
* * * *
“Leon”: It was winter, at the dark
hour preceding the dawn, and the new
hand was dispatched to the horseyard to
bring in the bay mare. Strawberry, who
had invaded the equine sanctuary in
error, was startled out of her usual
bovine placidity when the tyro came
upon her in the darkness and struggled
to force the bridle over her horns. “Yer
a long time fetchin’ the mare, ain’t yer?”
bellowed Dad impatiently from the
stable. Out of the gloom the new hand’s
voice wailed plaintively: “I can’t get the
bridle on —’er ears is froze.”
* * * *
“Ex-Gumsucker”: Located these past
40 years anywhere other than the Cab-
bage Garden, it makes me wonder to
hear present-day Gummies raving about
the iniquitous blackberry. I remember
how, in the central district of Victoria,
we kids ever so sedulously cultivated the
straggly blackberry that grew along the
back fence of my old man’s garden. What
visions we had of luscious blackberries!
But those dreams never came true, for
the wretched plant simply wouldn’t grow.
Now they tell me (still an exile from the
Garden) that it spreads over acres,
threatening to become almost as great
a pest as was the Queensland cactus-
even the goats revolt at the suggestion
of eating it. And I remember one fine
old English orchardist whose chief pride
was his blackberry hedge—better than
any electrified fence for keeping us kids
away from his cherries and apples. And
he used to make a bob or two selling
the ripe berries. On second thoughts,
, perhaps he was the original importer
of the pest. If so, then he in some
measure was responsible for at least one
death on Victoria’s Black Friday—when
a resident of the Buckland Valley, racing
the flames, got caught in a clump of
blackberry and perished.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat had news for
the boss. “Looks like a weddin’ between
young Smallfarm and old Broadacres’s
eldest daughter,” he said. “Oh,” re-
marked the boss, a good churchman,
“are the banns up yet?” Mat seemed
puzzled, and confessed that his infor-
mation didn’t go as far as that. Later
he asked me what a ban was. A couple
of days later he told the boss, “You was
askin’ about them banns for that wed-
din’. Well, they’re up all right. She’s
put a ban on him drinkin’ with the boys,
an’ we won’t see him in the nap school
any more.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: What is probably the only
live spotted-tail tiger-cat ever in cap-
tivity is the star boarder in St. John
Robertson’s private zoo at Mt. St. John
near Townsville (N.Q.). A carnivorous
marsupial, big and fierce enough to Kill
wallabies when put to it for food, but
living principally on birds and small
animals, it was taken in a wallaby snare
in the rough-timbered East Palmerston
country, westward of Innisfail. A pre-
vious specimen died soon after arrival
as a result of close confinement during
transit; but at last advices the newcomer
remains in excellent health, and there is
even hope that a family may be forth-
coming later on. An abo. yarn had it
that the animal was wont to lurk in trees
and jump down on passers-by with ex-
tremely destructive results to their upper-
works, but even amongst experienced
northern bushmen very few white men
Wp PVPr oppn a snecimen
have ever seen a specimen. #
“Kerriki”: A flying visit to the old
folk in Dingo Dell inspired me with a
lot of sympathy for the permanent
musketry instructor attached to the local
L.H. unit, just formed. Up our way,
since the memory of man, single-shot
rifles have been Bayards (a famous .22
of pre-magazine days), and .303’s are
naturally christened “big Bayards.” Lee-
Enfield and S.M.L.E. simply refuse to take
on as technical terms. The muskets have
the worst spin, though, when it comes
to cleaning. The lads pouch all G.S.
oil on issue to lubricate separators, and
treat their weapons as their fathers did
theirs in civvy life —with a squeeze of
lemon down the bore when the visibility
becomes hopeless. Effective, but a bit
hard on the bore.
$ Hi $ *
“P.F.”: At a Victorian butter factory
the grader advised one supplier per form
that the cream sent in one week had “a
foreign flavor.” On receiving it the sup-
plier said “I had an Italian on milking
that week. Fancy them being able to
tell by the cream!”
* # * ar
“Tom Willie”: Have never seen a
bushman appear in public without his
trousers (B. 28/6/’39), but in the days
when cheques were big and the rum more
or less rummy anything might have hap-
pened. The reason he never goes with-
out his hat is the simple instinct of self-
preservation. Put a timberman, a
forester, a cocky, or any other kind of
bushman among the trees and see how
much punishment he is saved by the
wearing of his hat. Twigs and small
branches bombard the man on the land,
but fall harmlessly on the sloping roof
of his Akubra. The hat also keeps wood-
adders and scorpions from falling into
his hair. It is always a felt hat, being
pressed into a multitude of services dur-
ing a single day. It acts as a seat, a
water-scoop and a bogey to frighten
stock into action. It makes a good riding-
whip, too, and supplies the correct buffer
between your head and Strawberry’s
flank at milking-time. And, most of all,
the hat is the bushman’s friend. It takes
equal place with his dog. He uses it to
express joy \ he kicks it to ea.se a bad
attack of worry ; and, finally, since the
hat contains so much of his own per-
sonality, he gives it a mansize job to
scare off crows and dingoes.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: Melbourne, usually the
Antarctic among Australia’s cities, has
been enjoying a series of Indian summers,
At the end of the autumn the elm-trees
in the Fitzroy Gardens threw out a fresh
crop of foliage as soon as the old leaves
had dropped. Now, in the mild wintei,
the poplars are putting out new buds and
shoots, and in a few. weeks ought to be
green in leaf. There is no precedent, and
tree-men cannot say what the trees will
do next if the late frosts kill the new
growth. Maybe they will s^ee P through
the summer and then dress themselves
when the next autumn rains come.
* * m
Herb D. : It Beef ® SjjfwS Jjf b
14/6/ 39) has any furt her j tr ° dble
bereaved kine while overlanding them,
him observe a method that I have
never known to fail. Scalp the calf,
taking a strip of hide four or five inches
wide down the middle of its back, m-
eluding the ears and tail. Double 1
over, keeping flesh sides opposite, fold
it up and take it on to the next camp,
and when the mob is rounded up for the
night spread that scalp on a small bush,
or on the ground, cut out the mother ot
the calf, andJmld her near he As
soon as she smelL it 'eave her, and sh
be there in the morning right enough.
BOOLIGAL BILL.
You have thrilled'to tales of the outside ways;
you have listened with bated breath
To the stories told of the “desperate chance”
and escape from the “jaws of death”;
Of the sailor’s battle in mountainous seas;
or, again, to the traveller’s tale
Of a wild affray in a jungle dim, where the
spears beat down like hail . . .
Well, this is a story to match them all, of
adventure stranger still;
Of a lonely swagman’s fight for life, as told by
Booligal Bill.
“I was makin’ for Hay,” said Booligal Bill,
“in the summer of nineteen-six,
When out near the edge of the Old Man Plain
the wind got up to its tricks.
From sunrise on through the scorching hours
there was whirligigs galore—
Them circling winds that swirl things up to the
height of a mile air’ more.
With the heat an’ dust, it was simply hell! I
remember the torture still —
But all of a sudden I caught me breath —an’
no wonder,” said Booligal Bill.
“For a tall grey column came out o’ the west,
a pillar o’ dust an’ sand
Built by the mightiest cyclone wind that ever
had swept the land!
Its head was up in the heavens aloft, as far
as the eye could see;
An’ as I gazed I grew wise to the fact it was
bearing down on me!
It rooted out fences an’ trees an’ things an’
whirled ’em around until
They looked like bits of a merry-go-round gone
mad,” said Booligal Bill.
“Clean fascinated, I watched the thing come
sweeping across the plain—
Some poor bush creatures had seen it too, an’
tried to escape in vain.
A bunch o’ merinos, a kangaroo, an emu or
two beside
Was lifted up like feathers to join in a ghastly
whirlwind ride.
For hundreds o’ yards its tentacles spread—
’twas a demon, out to kill!
An’ I seemed to hear it roarin’ at me:
'You’re next!’” said Booligal Bill.
“But it happens I come of a fighting stock
(though I’m never a man to boast),
An’ I thinks to meself ‘l’m not done yet!’ as
I grasps a big white post —
Worn smooth with the winds of years it was,
the last of a boundary line;
An’ to give meself courage I thinks for awhile
on them tough old dads o’ mine—
There was some of ’em fought -at Waterloo,
an’ a few at Hastings Hill:
So I looks meself square in the eyes an’ I
says: ‘Remember yer breeding, Bill!’
“Well, down it came with an awful rush, an’
the first thing that 1 knew
Me swag was torn from the shoulder strap an’
me hat had vanished too!
Then it ripped me coat an’ trousers away—yes,
tore ’em out by the roots —
Till I looked like a Cupid or Venus there —
that’s barrin’ me whiskers an’ boots!
But I clung on, bare as a babe new-born or
a rooster without a quill,
While the sands was peltin’ me tender hide . . .
It was tough!” said Booligal Bill.
“Then the centre o’ that there whirling mass
came right on the top o’ me;
But as I clung to the corner post a peculiar
thing I see—
The weight o’ the sand was holding me down!
Then, in spite of all I could do,
It started to spin me round an’ round —an
the old white post spun too!
Then me hobnails cut through the surface crust,
like a flamin’ electric drill,
An’ I found meself borin’ into the depths in
a circle!” said Booligal Bill.
“Well, me past deeds rose before me eyes (like
they do with a poor, doomed bloke),
The outlaws I’d rode, an’ the sheds I’d rung,
an’ the women whose hearts I’d broke.
Me boots ran hot as faster they bored; an’
me an’ the post went round
Till only me sand-filled whiskers showed on
top of the tortured ground.
All hope died out, an’ I shed a tear, an’ wished
I had made me will . . .
When all of a sudden the storm rolled on —
just in time!” said Booligal Bill.
“All sick an’ dizzy I clambered out to stagger
upon me way.
An’ —what do you think? —they shot me in as
soon as I got to Hay!
The magistrate called me a drunken swine, an’
some other things just as rude;
An’ the end of it was I got three months for
paradin’ in the nood!
‘Delirious trimmings,’ he said it was (that’s
French for ‘booze till you’re ill’),
An’ he snorted at me when I told my tale in
defence,” said Booligal Bill.
“Well, that’s, the story,” said Booligal Bill, “as
I’ve told it times galore;
I get dry as I think o’ me sufferings yet! An’
I tell you it hurts me sore
When some folks hint that they disbelieve —
though there’s one thing they won’t do:
That’s to take a trip on the track I tramped to
see if my words is true!
For I reckon they’d find the trench I made, an’
the top o’ the post there still —
That’s, o’ course, if the sand ain’t covered ’em
up . . . Here’s luck!” said Booligal Bill.
MAORILAND.
C.H. Winter.


“Wang”: Dad, mending a fence along-
side the road, looked up to see Hungry
Murphy approaching. “G’ day, Greybox,”
greeted Murphy. “ ’Day,” replied Dad,
sourly; “well, whatcher want now?”
“Not much this time,” said Murphy.
“Jist a plain ’spression of opinion from
yer. A coupla days ago one of them
blokes I have workin’ fer me wus
loadin’ a dray with straw, an’ let
a lighted match drop on it. He
managed t’ get the horse out in time ;
but the dray wus burnt t’ ashes. Now,
what’d yer do in a case like that?” “Sack
the cow,” said Dad promptly. “I did
that,” said Murphy ; “but what about the
dray? D’yer think I cud get anythin’
outa him fer burnin’ it?” “ ’Course you
can’t,” said Dad, secretly pleased at the
disaster; “the dray’s gorn, an’ it ain’t no
use moanin’ ’bout it. Best thing fer yer
t’ do is t’ ferget all about the bizness ;
that’s what I’d do.” “Glad t’ hear yer
say that, Greybox,” said Hungry; “I’ll
take yer advice. An’ you’ll ferget about
it too, I s’pose?” “Whatcher mean?”
cried Dad. “It was that dray yer lent me
six munce ago,” said Hungry, as he
moved off.
H* *s*
“Kellick”: It isn’t unusual for small
islands to “disappear” (B. 5/7/’39). In-
accuracy in the compilation of early
charts has been the major cause. On
one occasion an Australian cruiser was
bound for Gawa, just a speck in the
Pacific. To the amusement of all except
our navigator we made the island some
time earlier than expected. Our good-
natured banter sent Navvy away to in-
vestigate, and he asserted that the isle was
charted four miles out of position. Sub-
sequent survey proved his reckoning to
be correct.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Many birds have peculiar
fancies in the selection of material for
their nests. The white-eared honeyeater
likes blond hair for lining, and has been
known to fly at a woman’s head and tug
at the tempting thatch. Its cousin, the
yellow-faced honeyeater, also prefers
blondes, its nest being usually built of
gold-tinted moss. The mountain thrush
chooses shiny green moss. The yellow-
bob decks its cradle with spiders’ cocoons,
and the fantails line theirs with cobweb.
Several birds use cobweb for binding.
The mistletoe-bird mingles plant down
and cobwebs with sawdust from boring
grubs. Willie Wagtail appreciates the
warm softness of wool, and will pluck it
from a sheep’s back ; while the black-
chinned honeyeater selects possum fur
and hair for lining. Two curiosities are
the nurseries of the riflebird and the
crested bellbird. The first is decorated
with the sloughed skins of snakes, wound
about the top of the structure ; the latter
is adorned with the skins and dead bodies
of procession caterpillars—a hairy pest
that is repugnant to the feathered tribe.
* ❖ * JK
“Sam B.”: Fighting rams, is it? 1
was droving 1000 stud rams from
Coolaroy (N.S.W.) to Saltern Creek, Bar-
caldine (Q.). As we were passing a pub at
Tambo a pet ram, a fine big fellow,
came into the mob and stamped his foot
in challenge. The mob formed a ring,
the challenger in the centre, and one ram,
evidently the acknowledged leader,
stepped in. The two then (face to face)
backed to the edge of the ring, took
stock of each other and charged, meeting
head on with a resounding crash. They
backed to the edge of the ring again and
repeated this performance several times,
the ringed mob never moving, but baa-
ing their approval. After about the
seventh impact another of the mob de-
Are y ’ sure that's the bloke that pinched it?"
tached itself from the ring, galloped full
steam ahead at the stranger as he charged
towards his opponent and got him fair
in the ribs, turning him a couple of
somersaults. Stranger left hurriedly ; then
to my surprise the mob rushed the in-
terferer, who had played such a low-
down trick, and I had to put my oar
in to save him from their righteous in-
dignation. How’s that for clean sport,
anyway?
* ;fc :|c
“Nor’-west”: One sea food I never
can quite revel in is the whelk. English
literature of my boyhood used to be
full of such feeds —whelks, cockles, peri-
winkles. Struck a big sea-paddock full
of whelks on my first trip north of Roe-
buck Bay and decided that for the time
I would sup with Lucullus. But, though
we tried boiling for an hour, the much-
boomed whelk scarcely rose above the
tenderness and texture of a piece of
rubber tyre. Nevertheless, there was a
subtle flavor about it, extracted from its
shell and dipped in vinegar and pepper.
And they were sizable whelks, too —few
were smaller than a boy’s fist. All down
the W.A. coast I’ve found whelks, de-
creasing in size as the latitude went south.
The small ones south from Fremantle
didn’t cook too badly, but I never found
any that approached the much-acclaimed
succulence of the British variety. Nor
have I ever found the periwinkle. Does
that small mollusc find habitation any-
where around Australia?
* ■ * * *
“Cooee”: I asked Joe, who bore the
signs of battle on eye and ear, how he
had got on in the fight he’d had. His
opponent, I knew, had won it easily.
“He’d be easy to beat if he hadn’t some-
thing wrong with his lungs,” was the
reply. I bit, and asked what was wrong
with them. “Why, you can’t wind the
flamin’ cow!” he said.
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: Those 90-foot karri
sticks mentioned in a recent Bulletin
remind me of four 100-footers that once
were the delight of Mickey W., a W.A.
millowner. Mickey had been to the gold-
fields and, after a view of the towering
poppet-legs, knew just what was wanted.
For a couple of years he nursed these
sticks, personally writing every mining
co. about to start on a programme of
development. At last an order came —at
a fancy price. Delighted, Mickey wired
his bush mill to get the sticks loaded for
dispatch to Kalgoorlie, himself being a
bit too busy at the moment in Perth to
give the matter personal attention. Being
advised of the dispatch he in due time
was at the Perth shunting yard to see his
“Tap out a message ‘Dying of thirst—last keg empty.'"
karri wonders go through. He found
eight sticks each 50ft. Roaring at the
outrage he was officially informed that
for convenience of transport it had been
desirable that the length of his timber
should be reduced. His loading ganger
and his railway cobbers had never seen
poppet-legs!
* * *
“Golden Mile”: When “Skull Creek”
(B. 7/6/’39) goes off pop about the oil-
skin coat, surely he must have in mind
some of those rubberised fabrics dumped
on the market nowadays. I’ve worn oil-
skins —coat, pants, even a sou’-wester to
match —and never suffered any of those
alleged disabilities. Down in a water-
logged mine—old tweed overcoat no good
theer booay! Never was conscious of
any overplus of sweat either. And rig-
ging a rock-drill down at the bottom of
a thousand feet is calculated to make
one sweat.
% * *
“8.T.P.”: The passing of Isaac Cooper
in Nhill (Vic.) was the long-delayed
epilogue to a bush drama of 1865.
Gathering broom for mother to sweep
the mud floor of their shepherd’s hut in
the Mallee, and losing sense of direction,
Ike (9), Jane (7) and little Frankie (4)
wandered off. Eight days later an abo.
tracker, leading a party of searchers,
found them, unconscious, under a bush.
The girl had stripped herself at night to
keep little brother warm, she and Ike
taking turns to carry him. Frankie was
the only one who did not through life
bear traces of the trial. He died some
time ago in Queensland. Jane died in
Horsham in 1933.
* * *
“Watt Nextt”: Why is it that the
female animal is a better hunter than the
male? 1 mean the ordinary household
feline. In the bush an airy little wisp of
a tortoiseshell fummy will catch as many
mice and lizards as ten of her strutting
boy friends. All the warehouse medals
for rat-catching go to the flappers, yet
they are not appreciated at their full
value. In the city or the bush, where
rats, mice and snakes are the enemy of
man, the female cat is worth its weight
in gold as an exterminator. But the old
belief persists that Thomas is the family
defender, and 99 out of 100 female
kittens are drowned at birth. This leaves
Thomas practically a clear field to steal
from the larder or cry at the meal table
for scraps.
* * * *
“Koreelah”: A neighboring cocky
recently acquired a nondescript black
pup, which wasted no time in finding its
way to the dairy. Scorning a meat diet,
pup overindulged in some separated
milk. Moans and groans issued from
the rapidly-inflating pup until the kindly
farmer, at his wit’s end, inserted a trocar
at the appropriate spot. Pup quickly
returned to normal size, and in a day or
two appeared none the worse for a treat-
ment which, so far as I know, is unique
for a canine.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
ARE YOU GETTING CLEAR WATER?
e
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of ali descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, lee Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Dominion Breweries, Ltd. (M.L.)
To- Nominal
wards Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1931.. 4,392 Nil 4,392 4,392
1932.. 1,044 Nil 1,044 5,436
Loss. Deficit.
Goodwill disclosed, £19,100 .. .. 13,664
1933.. 14,002 Nil 27,666
Profit.
1934.. 2,436 Nil 2,436 25,230
1935.. 7,947 Nil 7,947 17,283
r~ Pref. and Ord.^,
1936.. 15,224 6* p.c. = 5,819 9,405 7,878
Reserves.
Share premiums, £17,235 .. ‘ .. 9,357
1937.. 22,039 9 p.c. = 12,298 9,741 19,098
Share premiums, £21,739 . . . . 40,837
1938.. 41,258 10 p.c. = 22,453 18,805 69,642
■ Share premiums, £12,500 .. .. 72,142
1939.. 65,477 . 12 p.c. = 32,600 32,877 105,019
This co. bought the Waitemata brewery
at Otahuhu, near Auckland, and
kicked off with an issued capital of
£75,000 in 1930. Immediately the econo-
mic barometer began to fall, and con-
tinued to do so for the next three or
four years. After that the business ex-
panded rapidly, following the manage-
ment’s policy of buying up hotel free-
holds and leaseholds, thus widening and
anchoring turnover, which has been fur-
ther assisted by the Government’s policy
of higher wages, shorter hours, extension
of social-service benefits and vigorous
spending on Government works, etc.
During the 12 months to the end of
March last the co. got in more capital,
further extended plant and bought up
more hotel freeholds. The leap in gross
earnings (£252,438) was £104,246. Includ-
ing provision for land, income and social
security taxes (£60,000, up £25,495) and
for depreciation (£28,330, up £15,297),
exes. (£186,961) took £80,027 of the in-
crease, leaving the net result £24,219
stronger at £65,477, or 24.1 p.c. on aver-
age capital (pref. and ord. combined)
as against 18.4, 16.1, 17, 10.1 and 3.1
p.c. back to 1934. The div., which began
at an all-round p.c. in 1936, followed
by 9 p.c. and then 10 p.c., was lifted
to 12 p.c., visibly leaving a little
more to be ploughed in than was dis-
tributed, and lifting reserves to £105,019,
after eliminating goodwill (£19,100) —
the intangible had not been treated as
an asset in the table. It is a very hearten-
ing performance, and a fine testimony to
the management, considering the amount
of new money, which has not yet had
a chance to develop full earning power,
invested in the business.
New share issues have been as follows:
No. Face Pre-
Shares. Value. Class, mium.
April, 1935 .. .. 40,000 £1 Pref.
Sept., 1936 .. .. 40,000 £1 Ord. 2/6
Feb., 1937 .. .. 40,000 £1 Ord. 7/6
Aug., 1937 .. .. 50,000 £1 Ord. 7/6
Sept., 1938 .. . . 50,000 £1 Ord. 5/-
In a little over four years those on the
register have thus put up £220,000 of
share capital, which has brought with it
over £51,000 of share premiums. The
new share and premium moneys, and a
lot more besides, have gone mostly into
hotel properties and the brewery and
plant: —•
„ 1934. 1936. 1938, 1939.
Paid capital.. £78,207 £108,582 £248,344 £300,000
S’undry creditors 9,575 18,084 46,533 77,272
Overdraft . . 19,226 59,425 41.085
Mortgages . . 239,442 258,294
Land and
buildings . . 11,405 16,177 438,277 506,929
Plant, etc. . . 31,885 47,487 135,260 194,085
Leaseholds, etc. 7,128 8.264 22,417 14,540
Stock . . . . 17,994 33,106 56,732 84,149
Sundry debtors 12,747 15,706 48,422 61,604
Cash, etc. . . 618 11,866
The £64,156 of new share and premium
moneys gathered last term, together with
an extra £30,739 from trade creditors
and a further £18,852 raised on mortgage,
was used to add £68,652 net to the book
value of properties, £58,825 to plant,
£27,418 to stocks and £13,182 to debtors’
balances. Leaseholds were £7877 lower,
and £18,340 was snipped off the over-
draft. When the books closed more or
less liquids exceeded the floating debt
by £27,396. Including mortgages, out-
side liabilities exceeded more or less
liquids by £230,898. Since the mortgages,
which are very helpful to shareholders
at the moment, could become a hin-
drance in bad times, no harm would be
done if more share capital was got in
and the debt reduced. '-Since the close
of accounts the co. has taken a lease of
the Sunshine brewery and two hotels.
The difficulties into which the Govern-
ment is getting itself in connection with
public finance make the outlook for trade
and industry in the Dominion confused
and uncertain. Among the ugly features
are extension of central bank credit on
Government account and continued
growth of costs.
The market, which notes the quick
growth of the business and the outside
debt, prices the ords. at 345. 6d. and the
prefs. at 365. 3d. At these prices the
return is 7 p.c. and 6.6 p.c. respectively
on a 12 p.c. div. basis. The net tangible
cover is £lO 2s. 6d. prefs. and 275. ords.
The prefs. carry a cumulative 5 p.c.,
advance with the ords. beyond that rate,
and share in surplus assets.
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends Towards
Net Pref. R e - Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 26,770 2700 9 p.c. ='14.983 9,087 1,336
1930.. 11,549 2700 4J „ „ 7,491 1,358 2,694
Loss. Deficit.
1931.. 11,988 1350* Nil 10,644
1932.. 9,550 Nil Nil 20,194
1933.. 3,116 Nil Nil 23,310
Profit.
1934.. 1,913 Nil Nil 1,913 21,397
1935.. 8,299 4741 f Nil 3,558 17,839
1936.. 20,090 7324 J 4 p.c. = 6,659 6,107 11,732
8 p.c.
1937.. 23,426 2400 8 „ „ 13,821 7,205 4,529
Reserves.
1938.. 28,945 2400 8 „ ~ 16,000 10,545 6,016
Loss realisation property, £1299 .. 4,717
1939.. 28,328 2400 8 p.c. = 16,000 9,928 14,645
* Six months. f 9 p.c. for 11 months to 30/9/’3l,
and 6.9 p.c. for 13 months to 31/10/’32.
t Includes all arrears.
The works, which turn out builders’ and
plumbers’ hardware, sanitaryware, dairy
utensils and hotel- and cafe-kitchen
equipment, are at Alexandria, near
Sydney, and there are five selling
branches in N. S. Wales and one at
Brisbane. Obviously earnings depend
largely upon activity in the building
trade. The value of building permits
issued in Sydney and its suburbs during
the last couple of years compares as
follows:
June 30, Citv. Suburbs. Total.
1938.. £2,388,125 £8,260,431 £10.648.556
1939.. 2,669,053 9,922,997 12,592,050
The recorded value of building activity
in Brisbane continued to advance, too.
So, after allowing for depreciation
(£3580, down £1049) and taxation (£B2OO,
up £700), the management was able to
write net earnings only £617 short of the
record figure of 1938, despite a sub-
stantial increase in costs, owing mainly
to wage* lifts. The £28,328 of profit
claimed was 12.3 p.c. on capital (pref.
and ord. combined) as against 12.5, 10.1
and 8.7 p.c. for the four preceding years.
That leaves out of the reckoning a loss
of £1299 on sale of a freehold at Hurst-
ville (N.S.W.), where the old premises
became too small and new ones have
been erected on adjacent land owned by
the co. The £9928 of the year’s net earn-
ings remaining in the business lifted re-
serves £14,645 in excess of goodwill, etc.
(£22,682), not treated as an asset herein.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1931. 1933. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £196,473 £196,473 £230,000 £230,000
Liabilities* . . 17,714 23,833 103,280 115,344
Freeholds . . 55,632 55,859 87,101 84,444
Leaseholds . . 17,272 15,680
Plant, etc. . . 40,304 40,820 48,712 50,094
Stock.. .. 54,772 50,960 89,276 97,048
Book debts . . 24,465 32,035 122,225 136,123
Cash, etc. . . 11,677 1,642 1,184 1,635
* Including provision for taxation.
Features which catch the eye are the
size of book debts and stocks (up £13,898
and £7772 respectively last term) and
the extent to which the board has gone
outside (£12,064 was added to the debt
last term) to finance expanding turnover.
It is a profitable policy on a rising mar-
ket, but might spell trouble on a falling
one. Including stock, the year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£119,462) was £10,057. On plant, upon
the efficiency of which much depends,
£1382 more was spent than was written
off; the drop in the freehold item was
£2657.
As for the current term, indications
are that building operations will be a
bit less active than they were during
the last one, and costs, including taxation,
remain on the up-grade. Still, there was
a wide margin between last year’s earn-
ings and distribution, so, unless some-
thing unexpected happens, the 8 p.c. div.
is not likely to be interfered with.
The prefs. at 235. 6d. return 6.8 p.c. on
an 8 p.c. distribution. They are 9 p.c.
cumulative, subject to the N. S. Wales
Interest Reduction Act, enjoy priority as
to capital and have the right to a pre-
mium of 2s. 6d. per share in the event
of a wind-up or return of their money.
The pound ords. are priced at par. The
net tangible cover is £8 3s. Id. prefs.
and 21s. sd. ords.
Carrier Air Conditioning, Ltd.
Gross Net Nominal
Dec. 31, Profit. Loss. Div. Reserves.*
1937.. £5,042 £24,487 Nil £40,202
Written off, £26,519 .. .. 13,683
1938.. 21,824 5,646 Nil 8.037
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £16,887 at Dec. 31, ’3B.
This co. has lately been a complete
flop so far as shareholders are con-
cerned. Formed in 1931, when the Aus-
tralian and Maoriland rights to the
patents of Carrier Engineering Corp.,
one of the leading air-conditioning organ-
isations in the U.S.A., were acquired, the
public became interested in July, 1937,
when the scrip was listed, follow-
ing the issue of 70,000 new £l ords.
at a premium of 11s. each. The issue
was underwritten and snapped, and early
sales of the f.-p. shares were recorded
at 335. 3d., this largely on the strength
of a prospectus which claimed profits of
£2573, £18,391 and £11,078 for the three
years to the end of 1936, and from which
divs. of 20 p.c., 20 p.c. and 10 p.c. respec-
tively were paid ; also, net earnings of
not less than 15 p.c. p.a. were spoken of.
The contraction of net earnings for
’36 was due “mainly to prohibition by
the Commonwealth Government of cer-
tain imports into Australia.” Because
of this the co. had to place work locally
at a cost higher than the imported pro-
duct. Still, the co. “had proved that the
products could be manufactured in Aus-
tralia at not more than the former landed
cost.” One purpose of the new capital,
etc., was to establish a manufacturing
unit to enable the co. to do this ; then
“the position of the co. would show an
improvement upon that ruling prior to
the prohibition.”
Actually trading in 1937 resulted in a
loss of £24,487, which the board attri-
buted mainly to (1) the Government’s
trade-diversion policy, which held up im-
portation of necessary parts and imposed
unforeseen costs; (2) loss of business to
competitors ; (3) adoption of a more con-
servative method of bookkeeping, which
eliminated profits on contracts until com-
pleted ; (4) servicing costs ; (5) expense
in setting up branch offices at Perth and
Adelaide, and in popularising air-condi-
tioning. The Government’s trade-diver-
sion policy, however, was in force in
1936, and an overhaul of the organisa-
tion (aftei the close of accounts in 1937)
disclosed that it was necessary to write
down some of the assets by £26,519. This
writing down was principally on account
of “obsolete and unsaleable stock, cus-
toms duty deposits found to be irrecover-
able, replacement and service costs in-
curred in 1938 but effected in respect of
installations completed prior to Dec. 31,
1937, debts found to be irrecoverable and
other small items.” In June, 1938, the
services of the managing director (N. P.
Hunt) were terminated by resolution of
the board, and he has since issued a writ
against the co., claiming £20,000 damages
for alleged wrongful dismissal —the pro-
ceedings are still pending.
Last year the co. and its subsidiaries
made a loss of £5646, of which £4016
was on account of the parent’s operations
and the balance in respect of the subsi-
diaries. For the last quarter of the term,
however, the parent claims a profit of
£3269 as against a loss of £7286 for the
preceding nine months. The profit was
at the rate of £13,076 p.a., or over 10
p.c. on capital. In March last contracts
on hand amounted to approximately
£lOO,OOO, or about 75 p.c. of the value
of contracts completed in 1938. Owing
to import difficulties and the high cost
of manufacturing portable self-contained
air-conditioning units, the co. has been
debarred from a sphere of operations in
which it had great hopes.
Here are the combined balance-sheet
figures of the parent and subsidiaries:
1937. 1938.
Paid capital .. .. . . £125,465 £126,007
Sundry creditors . . . . 23,942 24.02 S
Outstanding charges.. .. 3,253 6,219
Freehold, plant, etc. .•. 20,665 37,192
Stocks . . . . . . 54,038 46,753
Debtors 88,738 59,654
Owing by subsidiaries . . 125 3,152
Cash 12,674 652
Deferred assets . . ... 1,621 1,887
The reduction of £29,084 in debtors’
balances and £7285 in stocks was mainly
on account of the writing down already
referred to. On fixed assets £16,527 more
was spent than was written off. When
the books closed, stock, debtors’ balances
and cash together exceeded the debt (in-
cluding outstanding chargees) by £76,813.
Uncertain as to what the future holds
for the business, the market prices the
pound shares at 11s. After allowing for
goodwill (£15,000) and deferred charges
(£1887), the net tangible cover is 18s. 7d.
per share.


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
w
C <^o
*C Le
m ■
u
to
m
°^4
e
Country Producers’ Selling Co. (Sydney)
Bonus To
to Con- Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividend. signors, serves, serves.
£> £ w £ £ £
1928.. 22,404 10 p.c. = 7.500 11,251 3653 41,036
1929.. 24,146 10 „ „ 9,981 10,548 3617 44,653
1930.. 7,489 7 „ „ 7,000 Nil 489 45,142
1931.. 10,598 7 „ „ 7,000 1,233 2365 47,507
1932.. 7,766 5 „ „ 5,000 1,056 1710 49,217
1933.. 8,060 5 „ „ 5,000 2,300 760 49,977
1934.. 16,611 6 „ „ 6,000 4,583 6028 56,005
1935.. 6,772 5 „ „ 5,000 2,731 55,046
1936.. 19,635 10 „ „ 10,000 5,341 3294 59,340
1937.. 18,419 1.0 „ „ 10,000 5,275 3144 62,484
1938.. 14,384 8 „ „ 8,000 4,460 1924 64,408
1939.. 6,223 5 „ ~ 5,000 Nil 1223 65,631
The fall in prices for wool, sheep,
cattle, skins, hides and tallow, together
with the dry conditions which prevailed
during most of the term, and which
considerably reduced consignments, was
responsible for the sharp contraction of
£Bl6l in net earnings for the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts. The slip
would have been more pronounced had
not a heavy carryover of wool at the
previous balance enabled the co. to put
an extra 6161 bales under the hammer
last term:
Wool Gross
(bales). Sheep. Cattle. Earnings.
1920 . . 35,998 287,138 12,314 £49,158
1925 .. 38,164 118,343 21,415 51,042
1930 .. 88,707 392,371 14,632 73,581
1933 . . 91,457 411,830 11,673 65,825
1934 . . 82,541 340,801 10,938 78,750
1935 ... 58,100 341,480 13,862 65,921
1936 . . 87,267 276,466 12,589 93,317
1937 .. 63,182 356,202 20,008 92,726
1938 .. 64,874 387,687 23,826 88,589
1939 . . 71,035 359,562 17,538 75,379
Wool sold by the co. averaged £l3
os. Id. per bale as against £l7 os. lOd.
for the previous term, and 28,125 fewer
sheep and 6288 fewer cattle were auc-
tioned. The slip in gross earnings was
£13,210. Exes. (£69,155) were got back
£5050; but nothing was transferred to
the tax reserve, whereas £lBOO was so
put aside in the previous term. The
net result was £Bl6l lighter at 6.2 p.c.
on capital, the div. was lowered from
8 p.c. to 5 p.c., and, for the third time
since the co. set up in 1910, no rebate
or bonus was paid to consignors. For
the five preceding years the co. paid divs.
averaging a shade under 7.8 p.c., and
made rebates to consignors averaging
4.4 p.c. from net earnings averaging 15.2
p.c. on capital.
With all but £8745 of shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined)
represented by freehold and plant, the
co. has had to borrow to lend:
1933. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £100,124 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Sundry creditors 103,283 58,459 142,162 140,730
Freeholds, etc. 146,523 146,523 150,885 156,886
Shares in other
cos., etc. . . 12,372 5,366 10,074 9,445
Debtors & cash 102,488 79,909 155,410 145,038
Cash accounts for only £3OO of the
£145,038 in the last line of that table.
When the books closed the more or
less liquid surplus (£13,744) was £9578
lighter than at the previous balance,
owing to the outlay on fixed assets
(up £6OOl net) and payment of the
previous year’s div. Movements in the
figures during the slump suggest that
advances are, for the most part, made
against wool and produce, etc., on hand,
and therefore self-liquidating.
As for the current term, the seasonal
outlook is bright enough, but at the
moment it is doubtful whether much
improvement in wool prices need be
looked for, though last week’s London
sales were very heartening. Prospects
are that the 5 p.c. div. will be maintained,
with the possibility of bonuses to clients
being restored.
The pound shares paid to 10s. each,
and covered by 16s. 7d. in net tangibles,
are not listed on ’Change.
Kampong Kamunting Tin Dredging, Ltd.
First offshoot of Austral Malay, this
tin-dredger has little more than four
years’ work in sight at last term’s rate of
turnover, undredged ground at Dec. 31
amounting to 138| acres, of which 124]
acres lie within the selected area. So far
the co. has been unsuccessful in its quest
for a new property. Though there are
“several areas in Kedah which might
prove payable,” the Government has re-
fused to grant prospecting licenses for
them, the board says.
Nominal assessment is low at 260 tons
t.o. p.a., but, being situate in the un-
federated Malay States, the co. is not sub-
ject to the same degree of restriction as
F.M.S. producers. Portion of the area is
being worked by tributors. Last term the
contraction in both metal prices and per-
missible output combined to produce a
sharp fall of £16,120 stg. in net earnings,
after writing off £2749 for depreciation:
f —Surplus— v Divs.
Dec., Revenue. Exes. Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1936. . £43,395 £23,827 £19,568 2 /9i 1/9 £12,250
1937.. 51,907 27,826 24,081 3/5 3/- 21,000
1938.. 30,125 22,164 7,961 1/4 2/- 14,000
Div. was cut back to 2s. per share, of
which approx. Bd. came from reserves,
reducing the more or less liquid surplus to
£31,233 stg. That includes stores, etc.,
of £4605 and a £A6250 shareholding in
Austral N.Z. Mining.
Partly owing to the presence of old
workings, dredge recoveries have never
exceeded 88 p.c. of bore values:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Treated, c.y. .. 1,288,000 1,420,000 1,092,000
T. 0., tons (72 p.e.
assay basis) ~ 285.3 309.3 237.9
Av. per e.y., 1b... 0.50 0.49 0.49
Recovery, p.c. bores 88 73 67
Costs per c.y. .. 2.4 d. 2.52 d. 2.96 d.
Forward stg. price
metallic tin, ton £2OO/5/3 £240/18/- £lB9/18/11
Of last term’s output, permissible exports
amounted to 210.3 (down 64.2) tons t. 0.,
including 19.3 tons, taken in at cost of
production, contributed to the buffer
pool. The dredge was in tailings most of
the year. In the current term recoveries
have been averaging only 0.31 b. per c.y.,
and mine profit for the five months to
the end of May is down to £2900.
Market for the ss. stg. shares (140,000
are issued) stands around 9s. 9d. Aust., of
which ss. 6d. Aust. was represented by
surplus liquids at balance day. A 3d.
div. went out in February last.
As for the general outlook, the recent
5 p.c. lift in the international quota will
release approx, an additional 800 tons
of metal a month. Compared with May,
visible world stocks at the end of June
showed a reduction of 4603 tons, in-
cluding Straits carryover. At 23,982
tons, the figure compared with 30,989
tons at the beginning of the year, and an
average of 28,050 and 23,502 tons for
1938 and. ’37 respectively. Influences to
be taken into account in considering the
June reduction, however, are (1) steps
taken by offending countries (Bolivia has
been the chief) to eliminate over-exports,
and (2) the decreased output rate cus-
tomary in the last month of a quota
period to correct heavy production in the
initial months.
In Britain, fear of a price-rise owing
to a possible steel shortage as a result of
defence expenditure would • appear to
have constituted a bull point in the recent
recovery of the tinplate industry, where
production has stepped along this way:
Year, Cwt. Year, Cwt.
1929 . . 17,596,880 1935 . . 14,164,680
1930 . . 16,288,080 1936 .. 16,495,900
1931 . . 14,350,160 1937 . . 18,972,200
1932 . . 15,116,540 1938 . . 12,200,060
1933 .. 15,342,940 1939*.. 4,902,760
1934 . 14,959,060
* To May 1.
Appearances are that output has been
exceeding bookings, but no early relapse
is looked for. Expanding industrial ac-
tivity in France is a pleasing feature,
while in the U.S.A. the tinplate trade
remains the most active section of the
iron-and-steel industry, despite some
falling-away in auto, activity.
Mt. Morgan turned out over 6000 oz.
gold for the last four-week period, an
increase of over 20 p.c. on recent monthly
productions. The new smelting furnaces,
which since their inception a few months
back barely handled the volume of con-
centrates, have been gingered up by Jim
Horsburgh, and are now holding their
own. In this regard prospects appear
more satisfactory. Less certain is the
water supply; precipitations this year
have not been of the. dam-filling type,
and the management is concerned. The
recent increase in gold-production from
sulphide ore appears to synchronise with
a decrease in the ratio of overburden
from the opencut, and it is on the cards
that this will be held, or even progressively
improved, in the future. There is yet no
talk of resumption of dividends on ordi-
naries.
* * * *
A. J. Jones, Lord Mayor of Brisbane,
and his co-director, C. A. Byrne, have
just examined their Kelsey Creek mine,
near Proserpine (N.Q.), which has proved
a moneyspinner for all concerned. On
the spot is co-director Dr. Felix Dittmer,
who on a gold-foraging trip to the
Northern Territory found no better
option than that at his own back door.
Kelsey Creek was found by a group of
sugar-farmers, who pulled out of the mine
something over £30,000 in a couple of
years. Dr. Dittmer took over the option,
and a vigorous policy of development
since has produced a steady stream of
ore. While the 200 ft. level has not yet been
reached, this unusual lode has produced
something like 10,000 ounces of gold.
Although the tonnage is not large it has
averaged about 6oz. per ton, and the
end is not in sight yet. It is possibly
the only mine in Australia that has main-
tained such a rich grade of ore over a
period of years.
o Continued on next page.)


w
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of rare
minerals and metals.— Advt.
• * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
“CLIMAX” Air Tools are quicker and better.
William Adams and Company, Limited, 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney, agents for “CLIMAX” Rock Drills,
Riveting Hammers, Chipping and Caulking Hammers,
etc. Write to us for particulars.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phor.e: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelyab,” Melbourne.
SAFEGUARD
Self and Family
Wise men use A.M.P. Life Assur-
ance to make comfortable their
own old age as well as to safeguard
their families.
There are four stages to watch:
1. Aged 17-27.
When he is looking hopefully to
the future, the young man will be
assured with the A.M.P. for a
modest £5OO or £lOOO in anticipa-
tion of marrying. A good start.
Every man in work can make that
start.
2. Aged 27 onwards.
His wife and family will be pro-
tected with additional A.M.P.
policies, and there will be one for
his own old age. There will be a
sense of security and no worry
about the future.
3. Aged 60 onwards.
He will have the comfortable feel-
ing of financial independence made
possible through A.M.P. policies.
He will be grateful to the A.M.P.
representative who put his feet on
a sound path and kept them, there.
4. Aged 70.
His widow will be without cares
because of the protection . built
up by her husband when in his
twenties and thirties.
She will look back on a life
sweetened by their membership in
the A.M.P.
Make a start with this plan to-day.
Don’t put off doing something until
next week. Act, and the Society
will back you up.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to
send a representative to see you or,
if you prefer, send for a copy of
“Investing in Happiness” and other
booklets.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A W Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
Bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
Recent developments on the Talisman,
the mainstay of the Mt. Peter goldfield,
just outside Cairns (N.Q.), has shown
there is no diminution of values in depth.
Around tunnel level they averaged 2oz.
to 3oz. gold per ton, and the shaft-face,
200 ft. lower down, has disclosed assay
values up to 4oz. The Talisman has been
a steady producer of high-grade ore, and,
everything considered, would probably
be benefited by a more intensive scheme
of development.
* * * *
Production on Gold Mines of Parma s
Misima property for the 12 months ended
June was 30,556 tons, worth £35.725. or
235. 4d. a ton. As monthly outgo is in
the neighborhood of £3400 and recoveries
have recorded persistent decline over the
last few months —the June fieure was
I.7Bdwt. gold, and Bdwt. silver —the board
is considering discontinuing mining
operations and concentrating on pros-
pecting. The show has been a disappoint-
ment, and the f.-p. ss. shares (540,000
have been issued) go begging at 4d. or so.
Patchy distribution of the gold appears
to have had something to do with the
failure of recoveries to come anywhere
near assay values. The plant has been
doing a fairly efficient job, and the
sampling appears to have been carried
out with care. Ore reserves were
put at 400,000 tons above drainage
level, of which 250,000 tons consisted of
oxides estimated to average s.7dwt. With
costs at 21s. a ton, a £l-a-ton profit was
looked for, treating 3000 tons a month.
sfc * * *
North Broken Hill, whose new con-
centrating mill began on April 11, keeps
on increasing output. The lead and
silver contents of the lead concentrates
and the zinc content of the zinc concen-
trates compare as follows over the four
years to June 30:
Zinc
y— ljead
Year Ended Lead, Silver, Zinc,
June 30, Tons. Oz. -Tons.
1936 . . 68,412 3,264,214 40,872
1937 . . 59,380 3,312,534 39,125
1938 .. 64,092 3,546,765 42,900
1939 .. 69,866 3,797,693 47,107
Over the last two years the lead, silver
and zinc content of the concentrates has
increased by 14.9 p.c., 12.7 p.c. and 16.9
p.c. respectively. Last year’s increase in
production, however, will be more than
offset by the fall in metal prices. For the
12 months to June 30 the average Lon-
don price of lead was £l4 19s. sd. (down
£2 10s. Id.) per ton, and zinc £l4 os. 2d.
(down £2 13s. 3d.) per ton. There was
little change in silver at Is. 9.4 d. per
ounce. Costs, which have not yet felt
the full benefit of the new mill, were
adversely affected by a fatality at the
mine and by the dispute at the central
power station during the period, and by
a rise in the cost of supplies. The market
prices the 55.-paid shares at 435. as
against 51s. 9d. a year ago.
# * * *
With 50 tons or more of tin oxide
being won monthly and the higher tin
price now ruling for the metal, Briseis
Tin, sluicing at Derby (Tas.), continues
in the money, estimated mine working
profit for the first half of the current term
being £A34,890. Production was 320 tons
t.o. from 378,000 c.y., which works out
at 1.891 b. per c.y. Average for the full
’3B term was 1.681 b.
* ** *
Kalgoorlie Enterprise Mines (W.A.)
netted £21,026 and paid a 2| p.c. div.
(£6875) during 1938. That was after pro-
viding for taxation (£2085) and deprecia-
tion (£4745), and writing £3300 off mine
expenditure. Production began in April,
and a total‘of 39,015 tons of ore was
extracted and treated during the eight
months to the end of December, the
proceeds from bullion being £98,294,
equal to 50s. 4d. per ton. Ore
reserves (broken, proved and prob-
able) were figured at 438,900 tons,
averaging 7.2dwt. For the six months
to June 30 last, the co. treated 27,521 tons
for £77,299, an average of 565. 2d. per
ton. After paying for development, mine
profit was £33,646. A shilling div. is to
be sent out on August 5. The rate of
throughput is now 5000 tons a month.
Boulder Perseverance holds 70.5 p.c. of
the capital of Kalgoorlie Enterprise Gold
Mines, which in turn holds 92.5 p.c. of
the capital in Kalgoorlie Enterprise. The
balance of Enterprise’s capital is held by
Nigel Van Ryn Reefs, Ltd.
* * * *
Big Bell (W.A.), within two years of
when production began, has paid off
advances amounting to £A346,920, and
has declared a first interim div. of 3s. 6d.
per share on account of 1939.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.R.D.: Too soon yet to say what prospects
are. Write secretary and ask him to find a
buyer for you... .C.A.: (1) On June SJ. and P.
Coats ord. units were selling at 345. 9d. (2)
and (3) Prospects are good, but taxation
threatens to become heavier... .Aurum: Geo-
physical instruments do this, but special train-
ing is necessary to work them... . J.C.M.:
Write to the secretary and explain exactly what
you want to do, and ask him to forward a
transfer form. Legal assistance is unneces-
sary... .F.C.H.: (1) Commission ranges from
id. to 6d. per share according to selling price.
(2) If the co. is listed the seller pays the relevant
rates; if it is not listed, or a sale is made
at a net price, both buyer and seller pay. (3)
If the sale is not made ex div., the div. goes
to the buyer. (4) Fair prospect of divs. con-
tinuing. When arrears will be cleared depends
upon economic conditions... .W.C.: Write
liquidator, C. G. Swan, 58 Margaret-street,
Sydney.


AN ATTRACTIVE LONG TERM INVESTMENT IN GOLD
MIK.ONUI GOLD
DREDGING (N.Z.) LIMITED
*
CAPITAL £324,800
DIVIDED INTO A. 320,000 Ordinary Shares of £1 each, payable 2/6 per share, covering applica-
tion and allotment, and the balance in calls not exceeding 2/6 per share at
intervals of not less than two months.
B. 96,000 Deferred Shares of 1/- each.
DIRECTORS:
EDWIN GRIPPER BANKS, M. Inst., M.M.,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Australia, Consulting Mining
Engineer.
RONALD BURNS BANNERMAN, of 31
Mersey Street, Gore, New Zealand,
Barrister.
CECIL GEORGE McKELLAR, of 90
Hereford Street, Christchurch, New
Zealand, Public Accountant.
REGINALD WILLIAM STRINGER, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Australia, Company Manager.
WALTER JAMES WATKINS, of Com-
mercial Chambers, George Street,
Timaru, New Zealand, Mining Executive.
SOLICITORS:
BOWLER, BANNERMAN & HOWELLS,
Mersey Street, Gore, N.Z.
HADEN SMITH & FITCHETT, 405 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Australia.
g. r. w. McDonald & co., 1 64 Phillip
Street, Sydney, Australia.
AUSTRALIAN OFFICE AND REGISTRAR:
ALFRED J. PHILLIPS, of Stringer and
Phillips, Proprietary, Limited, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Australia.
IMMEDIATE OBJECTS.
The immediate objects of the Company
are to acquire a dredging property at Mikonui
(West Coast, N.Z.), comprising 412 acres
containing a selected area of 70,000,000
cubic yards of auriferous gravels, and to equip
this thoroughly prospected area with a
modern all-steel electric bucket-dredge
designed for a practical thruput of 4,500,000
cubic yards per annum.
VALUATION.
The drilling was conducted by N.Z.
Prospecting and Mining, Ltd., under the
capable supervision of Mr. F. L. Watts, 8.E.,
Superintendent Engineer of the Company,
with Mr. J. H. Williamson, M.Sc., A.0.5.M.,
as his associate, while the drilling plants were
controlled by experienced junior engineers,
all of whom were members of the Company’s
staff.
N.Z. Prospecting and Mining, Ltd., who
completely drilled the Ngahere area and
afterwards sponsored that flotation, is a sub-
sidiary of British Developments (N.Z.), Ltd.,
which organisation scout drilled the well-
known Kanieri and Arahura properties and
drilled the Marsden, Red Jacks, Mawheraiti
and Atarau properties more particularly
described in the prospectus of Associated
Gold Dredges (N.Z.), Limited.
MODERN GOLD DREDGING PRACTICE.
The success achieved in recent years by
Yuba Consolidated Goldfields, Inc., of
California, Bulolo Gold Dredging, Limited,
in New Guinea, Grey River Dredging
Company, Ltd., Kanieri Gold Dredging, Ltd.,
and Rimu Gold Dredging Company, Ltd., in
New Zealand, determines in no uncertain
manner the result that can be achieved by
capacity dredges of modern design, rugged
strength and mechanical efficiency.
POTENTIAL LIFE.
The reports disclose that the life of the
selected area will be approximately 1 6 years,
with a further 2 years from proved reserves
within the boundaries of the Special Dredging
Claim, together with additional life from
contiguous lands.
DREDGE DESIGN AND SUPPLY OF PLANS.
The design of the Mikonui Dredge is in
the capable hands of Mr. Paul R. Parker, who
designed the successful Rimu and Grey River
dredges and who possesses an intimate know-
ledge of New Zealand conditions.
Mr. Parker advises that he commenced
work on the design on the 6th April, 1939,
and anticipates being able to complete the
whole of the drawings within a period of 9
months. Hull and superstructure drawings
will be completed at earliest possible date to
enable a dredge contract to be placed in
New Zealand. It should be noted that
machinery drawings will be delivered pro-
gressively, allowing the placing of orders to
be undertaken at short date and in sequence
of requirements.
To avoid any loss of time British Develop-
ments (N.Z.), Limited, completed a contract
with Mr. Paul R. Parker on 3rd April, 1939,
and the benefits of this contract will be passed
on to the Mikonui Company.
As work has already commenced on the
drawings, one of the main causes of delay
usually associated with gold dredging com-
panies will be avoided, thus materially
shortening the period between incorporation
of the Company and production.
CAPITAL, STATISTICAL AND PROFIT
SCHEDULE.
MIKONUI.
Estimated Equipment Cost:
Property cost £40,000
Dredge erected complete, ready
for working, including plans,
specifications, and services
in ordering dredge machinery 230,000
Dredge pit, launching, build-
ings, roads, and power lines 10,000
Brokerage and preliminary ex-
penses 22,200
Working capital, including
stocks of essential spare parts 22,600
£324,800
STATISTICAL SCHEDULE.
Showing Estimated Profit:
Ground value in grains
per cubic yard . . 2.5 grains
Equivalent ground value
in pence per cubic
yard at realisation of
£8 per ounce . . 10 pence
Selected area in acres 412 acres
Volume of selected
yardage . . . . 70,000,000 cu. yds.
Estimated value of total
gold yield . . . . £2,916,666
Minimum thruput per
annum in cubic yards 4,500,000
Life of selected area . . 15 5/9 years
Estimated yield in
ounces per annum
based on 4,500,000
cubic yards of thruput 23,437 ounces
Value of estimated
annual yield at net
realisation of £8 per
ounce £187,500
Annual working and
administrative costs £50,000
Equivalent cost in pence
per cubic yard, based
on a thruput of
4,500,000 cubic
yards per annum . . 2.66 pence
Estimated annual net
profit £137,500
Estimated total net profit £2,138,889
ATTITUDE OF N.Z. GOVERNMENT.
The New Zealand Government is defi-
nitely favourably disposed towards the gold
dredging industry, which is evidenced by the
fact that they have not only made available
their Railway workshops for the purpose of
fabricating large dredges, but also at very
considerable cost have linked the West Coast
dredging areas with the main South Island
hydro-electric power supply.
The Directors have received assurance
that dividends payable will be paid irrespec-
tive of the domicile of the shareholder.
Brokerage at the rate of 5 per cent, is
payable to members of recognised Stock
Exchanges throughout Australia on the
nominal value of all ordinary shares allotted.
Application will be made for listing the
Company’s Shares on the Stock Exchanges
of Australia and New Zealand.
PROSPECTUS.
This announcement is not to be regarded
as a prospectus or as an invitation to the
public to apply for shares in the Company.
A prospectus may, however, be obtained
(1 ) At the Offices of the Registrar of
the Company.
(2) At the Offices of the Solicitors of
the Company.
(3) From members of the Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
Stock Exchanges.
Application for shares will be received
only on the application form accompanying
and endorsed upon a printed copy of the
prospectus.
Copies of all material contracts may be
inspected at the offices of the Solicitors of
the Company.


■ r
M Mf'
HI ■■' <a|pfil|H : '|s;
»«£*#
1
u
&
MY HOME
i is in
L£S
7-r^mm*
* This illustration was drawn in the Dining
Hall of the Victoria
Travellers from all over
w
the world come to the Victoria because of its
luxurious comfort and quietness and convenience.
It’s in the very centre of Melbourne, near theatres,
shops, trains, and trams. The completeness of its
services; the information gladly supplied about
Melbourne, and its friendly atmosphere, make the
Victoria an ideal home for the traveller.
In Melbourne, there is no service and comfort equal
to the Victoria’s. So when you come to Mel-
bourne, stay at the Victoria.
VICTORIA PALACE
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ROOM ONLY, DAILY
TARIFFS
Doubles, 8'- to 16/ -
Singles, 4'~ to 7/6
Sidney D. Horne, Manager
(Next Town Hall)
Write for illustrated Booklet
“ MELBOURNE HOLIDAY ”
to Room 136, Victoria Palace.
Send 2d. in stamps to cover postage
e
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Slump in De Bernales
The once-showy De Bernales gold-
mining hurdy-gurdy is losing its glitter
in many London eyes. The annual
meeting of Great Boulder Proprietary
was a very heated affair, and the
Grundt committee, which was out
for De Bernales’s scalp, missed getting
it by a margin that couldn’t have been
very reassuring to those in control. Now
the committee of London Stock Ex-
change has not only refused to relist
the scrip in Commonwealth Mining and
Finance, but it has wiped off the list all
dealings in Anglo-Australian Gold, Beryl
Gold, Great Boulder Mining and
Finance, Meekatharra Gold, Murchison
Gold, North Kalgurli United and
Southern Cross Gold. In 1935 the scrip
in these cos. was valued at £9,000,000
sterling; there is scarcely any market
now.
Dissatisfied shareholders since the
annual meeting have been pressing
for a Board of Trade investigation
into the affairs of Great Boulder
itself; now the “Financial Times”
recommends some such action to be
taken with regard to all the cos. de-
listed on July 12. There is quite enough
dissatisfaction evident among share-
holders to warrant an investigation by
an expert committee, and the sooner
De Bernales and his associates agree
to it the better it will be for all
concerned.
At the end of last week Mr. de Ber-
nales was asking for a Board of Trade
inquiry into the Stock Exchange ban.
A start should be made with Great
Boulder, in which dealings are still per-
mitted on ’Change ; it represents the most
worth-while asset of the bunch clustered
round the Kalgoorlie area. There were
references to Great Boulder’s tardiness
in reaching really remunerative produc-
tion in B. 19/4/’39, B. 26/4/’39 and
other issues since. Figures published
lately have been more promising.
Something in the nature of an Awful
Silence followed publication by the Com-
monwealth Bank of its memo, on credit
expansion and defence. The memo, was
in the first place addressed privately to
members of the Federal Government.
In essence (its details were published
fairly fully here last week) the memo-
randum stressed the fact that if we have
full employment the issue of more notes
or other forms of credit would do
little except raise prices and lower the
standard of living since, if the notes
were issued for financing defence, the
transfer of workers from the manufacture
of ordinary consumer goods to making
defence equipment would probably mean
a diminution in the quantity or quality
of the goods, etc., that go to make up
the necessities or luxuries of life, as
"I've never done any typing or shorthand, but I guess I'll pick it up in a couple of days."
workmen wouldn’t be fully available
to produce them. In the case of a
condition of considerable unemploy-
ment, the bank pointed out that a
judicious extension of credit by the
central authority might have a better
effect, since it wouldn’t necessarily take
workers already employed, out of their
present jobs for defence purposes, but
would absorb largely those, out of work.
The memo, took pains to explain, how-‘
ever, that such a measure was only one
of several courses available, and of the
several it was probably that best de-
scribed as an emergency one.
_ * ’ . ‘ * , ’ ,
Credit extension doesn t create trade
or give employment of itself. Trade and
money work hand-m-hand, certainly, but
the chief deduction from that tiuth is
that when the basis of trade is unsound
the base of credit (and currency) also be-
comes unsound. Therefore, if we have
already “lost equilibrium” between costs
and prices, inflation, even if on a small
or compensatory scale, can do no good
unless deflation in costs is already under
way. The assistance that the external
depreciation of our currency in 1930
gave to our export industries was only
effective because at that time the value
of our currency internally was appre-
ciating—in other . .words, costs of . pro-
duction were falling.
* % * *
The advice of R. G. Casey, Minister
for Supply and Development at Can-
berra, to the youth of Australia is to
“live dangerously.” When Mr. Casey
was a bit younger he had a lengthy
period as Federal Treasurer, j
,** * *
Not many shares have kept as' steady
in the market as those in Henry Jones.
Last week the scrip rose to 515., a, record
price for recent years, though the div.
in 1937-38 was no more than 10 p.c. ;
interim for the current term has been
at the same rate. A final ,is due in
October. The co. is one of the holding
variety, and all the investor has to go on
in appraising the scrip is the co.’s past
history, the quality of the management,
and his own native cunning. The co.’s
shares are undoubtedly a first-class stock
of their kind . jam> preS erves, etc., manu-
factured and sold both inside and out-
sjde Australia, are what dividends derive
tbe j r p ar ti C ular flavor from
*** ’ *
Australian Cement, Melbourne con-
trolling-half of Australian Portland
Cement Pty., has maintained its interim
div. at p.c. p.a. A declaration is
shortly due from the Kandos co., which
represents N. S. Wales shareholders,
* * * *
, The Victorian State Electricity Corn-
mission had its £900,000 4i p.c. loan
(offered at par) fully subscribed before
the closing date. Some authorities didn’t
anticipate such a prompt response, in
view of the poor support given to other
recent, public and semi-public borrowings.
The National Bank was the issuing house.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
United Provisions ords., on which a div.
is usually paid in October, recovered to Bs.
Support for Australasian Paper and Pulp
ords. was a trifle better at 285.; some scrip was
sold for London delivery.
Drug Houses ords. kept near 225. 6d., yield-
ing £5 15s. per cent, on a 6% p.c. div. basis.
The Boots concern has not yet announced a
definite intention to start operations in Aus-
tralia.
At 725. 3d., ex rights, the ords. in G. J.
Coles were relatively strong.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £28,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,200,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
LYSAGHT
*2& 4, ®C y >4""4- *»
of iff'<&%*
*S- r •**
wsmah/t# '
n«rtcr ttJ^^
% rff #f A
AUSTRALIA
ft'
L 6
OF YOUR WORK?
■
■
i
i—
mMHK
T
m
■
■
$>
m
m
3m»?
i
■
0
a
#«
mm
m
■■■■•
It's our experience that praising your own work
isn't a bad thing—sometimes. The man who
does a good job likes to talk about it . . . he's
interested in his work and proud of it. To
craftsmen of this kind—the men who measure
their work in accomplishment rather than
£.S.D.—we recommend Armco-Lysaght Iron
and Steel. Armco-Lysaght stock is made with
just one thing in mind: to give the craftsman
a finer stock for better work. Uniformity of
composition and Armco-Lysaght's specially
processed surfaces simplify fabrication and
make your finished products more saleable and
serviceable.
The following finishes are now being manufactured:—
MATT PICKLED: Single pickled sheets. SATIN: Full
pickled Sheets. VELVET: Full pickled two pass cold
rolled sheets. PLANISHED: Full pickled full cold rolled
sheets. MIRROR: Special cold rolled sheets. ENAMEL-
LING: Full pickled ingot iron enamelling sheets.
Complete technical information and advice is
willingly given to interested enquirers.
P T Y
LTD.
( THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION )
Born of
ARMCO
ARMCO-LYSAGHT SHEETS
KEMBLA Cr ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
Research
INGOT IRON
BORN OF RESEARCH
cn lO*g
Australian sharemarkets displayed con-
tinued improvement last week. Tone was
better than in London, and more or less
in keeping with New York. Recovery
was general, with Broken Hill Prop, lead-
ing the way. The fully-paids touched
645. on Friday. Australian Consolidated
Industries ords. were in an only slightly
less buoyant mood owing to the proposed
Tariff Board investigation ; they rose to
above 355. There was smart recovery
in Electrolytic Zinc, the metal market
being steady and a 15 p.c. div.
having been declared for the year.
Barriers kept near recent levels. Finney,
Isles, the Brisbane retailer, was outstand-
ingly firm in its section of the market;
in its class the scrip has probably shown
less price depreciation than any other.
David Jones, Farmer’s and Anthony Hor-
dern ords. in Sydney showed a firmer
trend. There wasn’t much doing in
Myer ords. (Melbourne), though the price
did strengthen a few pence (to 295.) late
in the week.
Morris, Hedstrom ords. slipped to
245. 6d. following a statement at the
annual meeting that the immediate future
didn’t promise much recovery in profits.
Last div. was 6 p.c., paid in Fiji currency.
Wunderlich ords. were among the weaker
construction-trades issues, selling at 3d.
below par. Australian Gypsum, up to
235. 6d. a short while ago, were dull
at near 21s. 6d. Felt and Textiles ords.
weakened to 29s. —this is another con-
cern interested in the extent of building
activity. The scrip was inclined to re-
cover towards the week-end.
Unlike some other stocks dependent
on construction activity, cement shares
were buoyant last week, Kandos fully-
paids changing hands at 30s. 6d. and
buyers offering 38 s. for Australian
Cement scrip. Standard shares were
sought after, though ords. in Goliath, the
prosperous Tasmanian concern, were
rather weaker at 245. There has been a
good deal of speculation in Goliath.
Adelaide Cement has had another good
year.
* * * *
The merger negotiations between
Bradford Cotton (Sydney) and Aus-
tral Silk and Cotton (Melbourne)
have advanced to a stage where
Bradford is making financial pro-
vision to arrange the absorption. Brad-
ford proposes issuing 93,167 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. and 43,000 ords., all fully paid up,
to the holders of 215,000 f.-p. ords. in
Austral Silk in exchange for their scrip.
On the basis of a market price of 225.
for Bradford prefs. and 375. 6d. for
the ords., that works out at just under
17s. per Austral Silk share—say a com-
fortable 16s. after allowing for selling
brokerage, if selling is contemplated.
Bradford has been expanding rapidly of
recent years, and it particularly wants
to extend the spinning side of its busi-
ness. Austral Silk’s spinning mill pre-
sented the opportunity at a time when
A.S. shares were about Bs. in the mar-
ket, so that the merger proposal should
be very acceptable to A.S. shareholders.
The manufacture of cotton goods in
Australia, though generally profitable, is
yet in its infancy. Bradford Cotton has
just introduced the sanforising (pre-
shrinking) process to Australia.
# * * *
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assur-
ance, Sydney, is making another bonus
issue. About two months ago £500,000
of new scrip was issued to the holders
of the £200,000 of capital then paid up
—five new shares for two. Now an
additional £300,000 of free shares is
going out, three for seven, and paid
capital will go up to £1,000,000. The
latest bunch of gift scrip will fall into a
different taxation year from the May lot,
of which 28 p.c. was non-taxable. The
whole of the just-announced issue is
taxable for Federal and State purposes,
subject to rebate at the company rate of
tax.
The raising of the M.L.C.’s share capi-
tal to £1,000,000 will not in any way
increase shareholders’ equity in the pro-
fits, which is not less than 10 p.c. nor
more than 15 p.c. in the 0.D., and not
more than 20 p.c. in the I.D. But as
the business expands—it has been going
ahead very strongly for several years—
the shareholders’ equity will represent an
expanding amount of £ s. d. also.
* =? * *
Morris, Hedstrom’s chairman at the
annual meeting in Suva told shareholders
that “it is unlikely that in the near future
the . co. will be able to earn profits equal
to those realised during the period ended
March 31, 1938 ; but at the same time
the co. is in a very sound position.”
Adequate provision, he said, had been
made for contingencies, and the directors
hoped that the current year’s trading
would produce results equal to those for
1938-39. The very low price of copra
has hit business in Fiji, despite the greater
activity in goldmining. Hedstrom’s busi-
ness is more susceptible to the price of
copra than Burns, Philp or W. R. Car-
penter, though B.P. (South Seas) is in
much the same boat.
* * * jc
Carpenters Investment Trustee Co.,
Sydney, paid capital £15,000, made a
net profit of £916 for the year to June
30, of which a 6 p.c. div. absorbs £9OO.
The investment portfolio (valued at
£16,731) is mainly represented by shares
in listed public cos.; it is economically
managed, but conditions during the year
haven’t been in favor of much profit
from turnover of stocks. There is a re-
serve of £3OO, created during the year,
against investment fluctuations, but the
board does not state whether this covers
“the temporary market depreciation”
existing at June 30. The co. has some
useful insurance agencies, etc.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“ENCIRCLEMENT.”
[To the cry of “German aggression” Germany replies
■with the cry of “encirclement.” This is a very real
fear in Germany, and by no means a new one. It is as
serious to Germans as the fear of German aggression
has become outside Germany. The result is a dangerous
deadlock, with Fear —the most potent of all causes of
war—the real dictator on each side. The seriousness of
this menace to peace is clearly acknowledged in the
repeated efforts of Mr. Chamberlain, Lord Halifax and
other British Ministers to reassure the German people
that there is no such British intention —efforts that have
led to discussion of “encirclement” in leader, letter and
other columns of the entire British press over several
weeks. Extracts from that discussion are here given
extensively, as the importance of the subject demands.]
{Sir Norman Angell, in a letter to the “Times.”)
If we are to arrive at an understanding with Ger-
many and persuade the German people that they have
nothing to fear from our Peace Front, then we must
be able to put ourselves in their place and see encircle-
ment with German eyes.
They see growing up a possible preponderance of
power on the part of Germany’s neighbors which
may place her at their mercy —as she was at Ver-
sailles. In any European combination of greater
potential power than her own she sees exposure to
the risk of suffering once more what she suffered on
the iast occasion when a hostile Alliance established its
preponderance. Informed Germans do not accuse us
of deliberate intention of war. But they urge that
once we and our allies have secured indubitable pre-
ponderance of power we can veto every move of
Germany’s policy which she regards as indispensable
to her life and welfare. We become judges of her
conduct and are 'in a position to impose our verdict.
It avails nothing to urge that we are prepared to
discuss grievances and will be fair. Germans point
out that we may have desired to be fair at Versailles,
but were not free agents and had to take account of
the desires of allies, and would have to do so again ;
that, already, decisions as to war and peace have, in
fact, passed out of our hands ; that it may well be
much more Poland’s conduct than Britain’s which pre-
cipitates war. The ultimate expression of Germany’s
case —given quite frankly by the Ftihrer —is that she
must dominate her neighbors as the only alternative
to being dominated by them, to facing another Ver-
sailles.
We have made it quite clear that we are not pre-
pared to accept Germany’s domination or preponder-
ance. So be it. Do we then ask her to accept ours
—or that of a combination whose decisions may be
forced by a Poland, or a Rumania, or a Russia?
This is no artificial dilemma or difficulty. Again
and again this last few years the British Government
itself has emphasised the risks of a Peace Front which
would seem to Germany provocative, divide Europe
into two armed camps, increase the risks of ideological
conflict, tend to turn every local dispute into a world
war. Equally have the dangers of committing our-
selves to the defence of prospective victims of aggres-
sion been emphasised. No later than last March in
the House of Commons Sir John Simon was urging
that such a method would place the virtual control of
our foreign policy in the hands of a number of foreign
Governments.
Both risks —that of appearing to ask Germany to
accept our preponderance while we refuse to accept
hers and the risk of becoming involved in a war pro-
voked by the possibly hasty action of some distant
ally —are still regarded by many supporters of the
Government as so heavy as to cause hesitations.
The dangers these critics urge are real. How are
they to be met? Certainly not by indecision and oscil-
lation, moving at one time towards a Peace Front
and then moving back. Having accepted the more
dangerous features of the collective method we must
go forward and add the conditions designed to attenu-
ate the undoubted risks by embodying in our policy
these principles:
(1) Our aid to prospective victims of aggression
must be subject to their readiness to observe certain
rules of international behavior {e.g., submission of
disputes to third-party judgment).
(2) In creating a Peace Front we must make it clear
that we do not ask Germany or the Axis to accept our
domination (since we refuse to accept theirs), but the
domination of the law or code by which we ourselves
are prepared to abide. What we ask for ourselves we
offer to Germany.
(3) The Peace Front is designed not merely to ensure
its members against violence but also to furnish the
basis of an instrument for the peaceful settlement of
disputes and particularly of peaceful change. Its under-
lying principle is that the political or economic securi-
ties which it seeks are open to those against whom its
power is directed, so that Germany can break her
“encirclement” by entering the circle.
Germany’s Case Examined
{From an article by Edward Bevan in the “Spectator.”)
Germans may fully recognise that our encircle-
ment is intended to be purely defensive, and neverthe-
less object to it on one or other of at least three
grounds. There are, in the first place, Germans who
do not believe that their present Government has any
further forcible expansion of German dominion in
mind. To attribute to the Nazi Government designs
of extending its dominion beyond these limits is, they
think, part of the British and French campaign of lies.
Defensive arrangements made by the allied States are
a standing false accusation of Germany, as if it har-
bored aggressive designs! Even if the intention of
the encircling Powers is purely defensive, this treat-
ing of Germany as a criminal to be confined may in
the end compel Germany to resort to force to break
the ring.
It is unnecessary here to rehearse all that may be
said on our side to show what good ground we have
for regarding further aggression by the Nazis as so
far from being unlikely that arrangements to counter
it are inevitable. But there is another German view,
the opposite of the one just described. These Ger-
mans do not deny that Germany will try, sooner or
later, to extend its dominion beyond its present
frontiers. Their contention is that the present frontiers
are unfair: they do not afford the German people
Lebensraum. If our encirclement is defensive, in the
sense that it seeks to perpetuate the status quo, it is a
constriction which Germans must feel intolerable.
Here again we have an abundant answer. What
is needed is to clear up the very confused notion of
Lebensraum. In what sense can any people in the
present world have a sphere at its disposal in which
every member of it can find work and livelihood?
Britain has, politically connected with it, a number of
great Dominions and colonies, but emigration into
them has been possible in recent years only on the
smallest scale, which could not relieve us of our un-
employment problem. Any expansion of German
rule beyond its present frontiers would mean the sub-
jugation of peoples who do not want to be German.
We feel that we do right in trying to prevent that. So
far, however, as the complaint means that Germany
is to-day at a disadvantage for procuring supplies from
outside, as compared with ourselves, it is no doubt
well that we should be ready to do anything we can
to equalise things. When our Government has made
up its mind what offers in this line it is prepared to
make (involving perhaps an extension of the Mandate
system to all our own colonies) it should put forward
these offers as precisely and publicly as possible.
A third ground on which Germans may complain
of our encirclement has been given by Count Pueckler,
who argues that close military arrangements between
a group of States, even if defensive at the outset, are
likely, sooner or later, to become offensive. Suppose,
he argues, any one State of the group makes an attack
“Angriff,” Berlin.
GERMAN VIEW OF ENCIRCLEMENT.
Chamberlain: “If that Soviet drummer will play
out of time, it’s going to spoil our whole beautiful
concert.”
on Germany, all the other States are certain to back
up the action of their aggressive ally. In reply to this
argument we should no doubt insist upon the fan-
tastic improbability of Britain or France or Poland or
Turkey wanting to attack Germany, so long as Ger-
many does not begin aggression ; and, secondly, we
should dispute the supposition that, if any State of the
group did fly off into aggressive action, Britain would
feel bound to back it up.
But the case is not quite so simple as that—
because the line between aggressive action and defen-
sive action is not always easy to draw. The Nazi
Government might, for instance, conceivably get pos-
session of Danzig without any overt military action,
and the Poles might then take military action which
the Germans would regard as aggressive, but which
we should regard as defensive. Thus the encirclement
would come into force, and the Germans would say
“See how right we were all along to object to it!”
If we are going to have a Ministry of Informa-
tion, for the enlightenment of the German people, it
will have to carry its demonstration a good deal farther
than ingeminating that encirclement is a “myth”
because it is defensive.
Bismarck Also Complained
{Lord Rennell, in a letter to the “Times.”)
The encirclement of Germany by hostile or un-
easy neighbors is not a myth, as it is coming to be
called in speeches and articles. What is mythical is
the attribution, so evident in German propaganda, to
ourselves of a responsibility for it which lies directly
with the leaders of policy and action in Germany.
The complaint of encirclement has been from
time to time renewed in order to influence opinion
there during the last 50 years. I first heard it put for-
ward, when at the Embassy at Berlin in the middle
eighties of the last century, by the then Chancellor,
Prince Bismarck. The Reich, he said, was encircled
by a ring of avowed enemies or doubtful friends. There
was then as yet no suggestion that we had promoted
that encirclement. The existence of such a ring, which
could not be contested, was, however, the direct, result
of the processes employed to establish the empire.
It was only after the Chancellor, for reasons of
internal policy, felt obliged to support colonising ambi-
tions, which he had not at the outset favored, that he
assumed towards us the attitude of the unappreciated
friend. After his dismissal the acquisition of colonies
served as a pretext for a large increase in the German
navy, and public opinion had to be stimulated by the
suggestion of British antagonism. When certain un-
friendly manifestations during the South African War
and other indications of policy had brought about a
new grouping of the Powers, we were indicated directly
as seeking to thwart German expansion and King
Edward VII. was represented as zealous in promoting
such an attitude.
The process of suggestion has recently been re-
newed with particular vigor, and it seems to have
taken a strong hold on certain sections of opinion in
Germany. It has, however, as the Secretary of State
for Foreign Affairs has pointed out, not been any
deliberate policy on our part, but recent action in
flagrant contradiction to assurances that Germany did
not seek the incorporation of non-Germans in the
Reich, which has shaken confidence and has led other
countries instinctively to draw together in order to
guard themselves against a menace to their independ-
ence. It has not been British instigation but German
action which is making defensive encirclement inevit-
able.
Who Will Break the Spell?
(W. R. Bisschop, writer of the letter here condensed f ron }
the “Times,” is a barrister, standing counsel to the Dutch
Legation and author of a number of books on legal aspects
of foreign affairs.)
Alliances are symptoms of war policy and will
never bring us nearer to a peaceful Europe. Even if
alliances are for defensive purposes only, they are
aimed at a potential enemy, and if Europe is divided
into two camps or two groups of allied Powers the
object or aim of either alliance is fairly obvious and
can hardly be said to be against a third party. The
facts themselves contradict any assurance to the con-
trary, and the more perfect the organisation becomes
the greater grows the antagonism and final exaspera-
tion not to be undone in the endeavor of either group
to remain the superior power.
Who will break the spell and call the European
sovereign States into conference for the recognition
of each other’s good will and willingness to sacrifice
for the common welfare? Such call itself will be more
convincing than any assurance of friendly intentions,
because it denotes the will to end the deadlock and
constitutes the act which brings the good will to life.
The German Chancellor has declared that he is
willing with any European neighbor to open negotia-
tions for a non-aggression pact. In that sense Great
Britain may be considered to constitute a neighboring
country.
On behalf of Great Britain the Prime Minister has
solemnly declared, and the Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs has affirmed it, that no encirclement
is intended and that no British action should be con -
sidered to have such aim.
Yet Germany feels it and is convinced that a
circle is drawn. What could be more natural to allay
distrust than a direct invitation from Great Britain —
if such feeling exists —for Germany to enter that imag-
inary circle and to become one of the participants of
the benefits which such encirclement may convey?
Why should the first step not come from here and
the spell be broken which hampers a clear under-
standing between the tw'o nations? Is not the existing
imbroglio sufficiently dangerous and threatening to
call for a magnanimous act; to open the door and
stretch out the hand: if we are suspected of harbor-
ing ill will and sinister plots, come in and see for your-
self that no such feelings exist, but, to the contrary,
a heartfelt desire for a friendly intercourse and the
preservation of peace between neighbors.
Sir Philip Gibbs Has Doubts
(From an article by Sir Philip Gibbs in the “Sunday
Referee.”)
There is something traditional in that fear of
encirclement. It is an old bogey which has reared up
its head again. Every German, however well educated,
believes in his very soul that we, with France and
Russia, did encircle Germany in the years before 1914,
and that the World War was forced upon Germany by
its desperate need to smash that stranglehold of hostile
Powers.
We, of course, believe precisely the opposite. But
Dr. Goebbels has an easy game now in the Propaganda
Ministry.
When Mr. Chamberlain decided to guarantee the
independence of Poland and other States after the
seizure of Czechoslovakia, and when, further, he
entered into negotiations for a military alliance with
Russia, he raised in the minds of the German people
that old bogey of encirclement which turns their blood
cold and makes them see red.
I must confess —though it matters to no one but
myse lf —that I regard our new commitments and alli-
ances with the greatest apprehension.
It seems to me that we give to Poland, for
instance, the power of involving us in war if its rulers
use our guarantee in order to refuse any reasonable
arrangement with Germany over Danzig and the
Polish Corridor—both ill-fated legacies of the Treaty
of Versailles, though now it is regarded as high treason
to say so. . .
The Russian alliance also is still uncertain, dan-
gerous and very doubtful in its results.
Hobbles on the War Horse.
{Beverley Baxter, M.P., hi the “Sunday Graphic.”)
To summarise Germany’s disadvantages is to see
at a glance why Herr Hitler must realise that he
cannot even hope to win a major war.
1 The German people have been told over and
over again by Dr. Goebbels that the rich democracies,
including America, are determined to destroy Germany.
In order to whip up resentment against Britain he has


persuaded the Germans that we have mobilised almost
the whole world against them.
2. The Germans don’t want to fight most of the
whole world. In no country in Europe is there such
a dread of war as in Germany to-day.
3. Herr Hitler claims that Germany is united
behind him to a man and a woman. Six years ago
there were five million Communists in Germany. Are
they all dead? In Austria there are many thousands
of men who intend to revenge Dollfuss and Schu-
schnigg. In Bohemia there are eight million Czechs. If
Germany went to war she would have to divide her
army into three parts —to fight on the Western Front,
the Eastern Front and the home front.
4. Germany’s oil and food supplies are inadequate
for a long war, and a short one is impossible.
5. Britain is stronger at sea than in 1914, and
sea power will win the war.
6. Germany has only one real ally, which is so
distrusted that German officers even in Italy do not
try to hide their contempt for the junior member of
the Axis.
7. In the Far East Japan can do no more than
bq a nuisance. In the Mediterranean Spain is trying
to regain her soul. In Central Europe Hungary and
Yugoslavia will not surrender their freedom.
Krivitsky “Exposed.”
fFour months back the “Saturday Evening Post”
began publication of an extraordinarily revealing series
of articles on Stalin’s Soviet Russia written by General
W. G. Krivitsky, the one leading Red Army officer
to escape the frightful purges of 1937. Digests of
several of these articles had appeared in “Uncabled
Additions” when the American Communist publication
‘New Masses” came out with an alleged “exposure” of"
Krivitsky which, as described in the accompanying panel
item, was given some publicity in Australia. The “Post”
published another of Krivitsky’s articles in the issue of
June 17, and next week came out with this crushing
retort to the so-called “exposure.”!
The May 9th issue of the “New Masses,” official
Communist party magazine, carried on its first page
the following challenge:
“General Krivitsky,” you are Shmelka Ginsberg.
You were never a general. You cannot even use a
rifle.
Vou never set eyes on Stalin or Voroshilov.
You are an Austrian, hailing from old Franz-Josef’s
Podvoletchiska. Your middle initial G. stands for
Ginsberg
You first turned up in Paris, where you are a
notorious bon vivcint, denizen of the night clubs, and
always in the dough. You invented your title and name
for Paris journalism when you promised to “tell all.”
Those who know you well will snicker at the idea
that your mind can absorb an iota of politics—the nights
in Paris are said to be too long. You are just the kind
of adventurer that the infamous Yagoda would pick for
his anti-Soviet dirty work.
You cannot even write. Isaac Don Levine, a lily in
his own right, ghosted the articles. They made a fine
product—Krivitsky, out of Levine, for the “Saturday
Evening Post.” It is an open secret that Suzanne La
Follette, Trotskyist stalwart, is lending .Levine a hand
in preparing the material for a book. Curtis Brown,
Inc., are the agents of Isaac Don Levine, Suzanne La
Follette and/or “General Krivitsky.” If anybody still
wants the book he can get it for $5OO.
“New Masses” has the facts.
That’s about all.
There are two striking details about this denial.
The first is that it was delayed four weeks after the
appearance of General Krivitsky’s first article in the
“Post.” The “New Masses” goes to press the day
before publication.
It states that the news of this imposture reached
it so late that it was necessary to remake the first
page. It does not state from where the news reached
it; this being evident.
Counting upon American ignorance of internal
Russian affairs, Moscow seems to have made up its
mind eventually to deny Krivitsky’s existence rather
than to attempt to refute his charges. To deny the
existence of a man who was the director of the Soviet’s
War Industries Institute in 1933-34, chief of its mili-
tary intelligence in Western Europe from 1935 to 1937,
might embarrass any but the Russian Government.
The second notable aspect of the denial is its
extraordinary anti-Semitism. “ ‘General Krivitsky,’
you are Shmelka Ginsberg.” You are a Galician
Jew. Contemptuously, the State rests.
The impudent falsity of the denial —except in two
irrelevant details —is characteristic. But it is true that
Krivitsky, knowing no English, had the aid of Isaac
Don Levine. It is true that “Krivitsky” is an alias.
The old Bolsheviki, with scarcely an exception,
took aliases. It was a needful precaution, for one
thing. Lenin’s name was Ulianov. Trotsky was Bron-
stein. Stalin’s name is Dzugashvili. Maxim Litvinov
really is Meyer Vallach.
The list is endless and the practice is not confined
to Russia. The editor of the Communist “Daily
Worker” is Mike Gold. His name is Isadore Granich.
The principal editors of the “New Masses” are Joseph
North and A. B. Magil. Joseph North’s name is
Seifert. As A. B. Magil is the son of a Philadelphia
rabbi, his last name presumably is an Anglicisation
of a Jewish name. The first three contributing editors
listed on the “New Masses” masthead are Theodore
Draper, Robert Forsythe and Joseph Freeman. Theo-
dore Draper is Teddy Dubinsky. Forsythe is Kyle
Crichton, also an editor of “Collier’s Weekly.” Joseph
Freeman is Yoshke Freidmann.
Truth and honor, like honest names, are vulgar
bourgeois virtues in Communist eyes. Hence it is both
needless and futile to reply. But we have been a little
startled at the multigraphing service at the ready dis-
posal of the Reds.
First Winchell [New York columnist] picks up
two details of the “New Masses” denial and prints
them as his own discovery. The “New Republic”
blandly accepts the “New Masses” denial, offering no
other authority, there being no other authority. The
“Witness,” published in New York by the Episcopal
Church, repeats not only the original “New Masses”
denial but the news story in the following week’s issue
—repeats them verbatim and offers them as the “Wit-
ness’s” own findings, “after investigation.” Nowhere
in this pious publication is the “New Masses” given
credit.
In Lewiston, Idaho, a prominent attorney writes
us a letter. “I have read the exposure of the Krivitsky
articles in the ‘New Masses.’ What have you to say
in reply?” he asks. Without waiting for our reply,
even before his letter is well on its way to Philadelphia,
he writes an open letter to the Lewiston “Tribune.” In
this letter he states that the “New Masses’! has ex-
posed the utter falsity of Krivitsky. He gives every
detail but one; he neglects to identify the “New
Masses” as an official organ of the Communist party.
He boasts that “you may bet that the ‘Saturday
Evening Post’ will not attempt to reply.” From Nova
Scotia to Oregon similar letters find their way into
the newspapers, but not once is the “New Masses”
described.
Baltic States Fear Soviet Protection.
[What those nearest to Soviet Russia think of its
“protection,” as pointed out by Arnold Wilson, M.P.,
in a letter to London “Times.”]
The diffidence of the Baltic States towards the
expressed desire of the U.S.S.R. to guarantee their in-
dependence, achieved 20 years ago with German aid at
the expense of Russia, is perhaps insufficiently under-
stood outside those States. The following facts deserve
to be well weighed.
On March 28 last the U.S.S.R., in a note verb-ale
addressed to Estonia, said that it would regard as a
violation of Russo-Estonian treaties “for which Estonia
must take the consequences” any agreement concluded
by Estonia with a third Power, of her own free will
or otherwise, which (a) diminished Estonian indepen-
dence, ( b ) granted exclusive privileges to such Power,
or (c) resulted in the economic, political or military
domination of Estonia by such Power.
In other words, Estonia was warned not to make
any pact for her protection against an invasion by
Soviet naval or military forces, on the pretext of pro-
tecting Estonian sovereignty.
The U.S.S.R. thus seeks to establish a form of
protectorate over the Baltic States, whose reply has
been (a) in Estonia, Latvia and Denmark, the conclu-
sion of pacts of non-aggression with Germany; ( b)
in Finland, a joint arrangement to refortify the Aland
Islands, despite the attempted veto of the U.S.S.R. at
Geneva, for which the Finnish Government and press
hold Britain also responsible.
These Baltic States might be of cardinal import-
ance to us in case of war; our negotiations with the
U.S.S.R. have pushed them into “reinsurance” agree-
ments with Germany. They clearly fear that, inspired
by the desire to protect them against Germany,
Britain may give involuntary assent to a Russian pro-
tectorate which they are determined to resist, prefer-
ring the prospect of German protection in case of war
to an incursion of Soviet troops under any pretext that
diplomatic ingenuity can devise. Their fears are not
vain, for the form of pact desired by the U.S.S.R. en-
ables that Government to declare aggression to be
“threatened” by a third Power, and on this ground to
embark upon a war which must involve us and from
which no “formula,” however skilfully worded, would
save us.
A pact with Moscow would be too dearly bought
at the cost of losing the good will of the Baltic States,
a courageous and determined body of neutrals. “Let
the guilty repent, we have never believed.” Instead
of pressing the Government to conclude at all costs
a pact with the U.S.S.R. we should urge it to make a
firm stand against any attempt on the part of Russia to
encroach upon the sovereignty of the Baltic States.
They are the best judges of their interests, which in
the ultimate resort are also ours.
The States' Forces
(From an article by London “Times” Warsaw
correspondent.)
All three States have announced individually and
collectively that they will remain neutral in case their
neighbors be at war, and that they will fight only in
defence of their own independence. Together they will
fight the State which violates their neutrality first.
Singly the Baltic States could not offer much
resistance to either Germany or Russia, but their
united forces would have to be taken into serious
account by any army which had its main forces heavily
engaged in another direction. Their combined popula-
tion is about 5,500,000 (Estonia 1,131,000, Latvia
2,000,000, Lithuania 2,400,000), with standing armies
of 60,000 (12,000, 25,000 and 23,000). Universal com-
pulsory service is the system throughout the entente,
and the armies could rapidly be expanded to a force
of 500,000 men. The armies are well trained, and
many of the officers have received supplementary ex-
perience abroad ; and well-organised auxiliary organi-
sations could almost immediately convert the three
republics into three nations in arms.
The human material is excellent. The older re-
serves include many who in their teens fought side by
side with their fathers and grandfathers during the war
which gave them their independence 20 years ago.
They have since received their own plots of land and
established their homes there. If these homes be in-
vaded or threatened their owners will fight at least as
well as they and their grandfathers did when they had
no land of their own to defend, with the advantage
that to-day they are well clothed, well shod, trained
and equipped. The three Presidents of tp-day—M.
“Nebelspalter,” Rohrschach.
CHAMBERLAIN AND STALIN: SWISS VIEW.
Konstantin Pats of Estonia, Dr. Karlis Ulmanis of
Latvia and Colonel Antanas Smetona of Lithuania —
who have steered their republics through the recent
period of constitutional reform are the same men who
led their nations into the first stage of independence 20
years ago.
Portugal, Spain and Peace.
(Condensed from an article by a London “Times” special
correspondent.)
Small as she is, Portugal weighs heavily in the
balance of power. Her privileged geographical situa-
tion on the south-western marches of Europe, her
staunch individuality as a people, and her possession
of the third largest colonial empire in the world are
factors that compel attention at all times. To-day,
recovering from a long lethargy, she is ready to exer-
cise a stabilising influence in a world struggling to
maintain the barriers against war. She can do this dis-
interestedly because she has no share in the rivalries
with which Europe is becoming distraught and because,
having recently had need to put her house in order,
she set about doing so by her own effort alone.
Portugal asks nothing. Indeed, her recovery
dates from the time when a League of Nations Com-
mittee went to Lisbon to report on reform. Rather
than submit to measures proposed by foreigners to
be carried out under foreign supervision she set about
restoring order herself. The remarkable manner in
which national introspection produced the strength to
do this is Portugal’s real triumph, for it placed the
Dictatorship on an unassailable basis. As a result
Portugal is mistress of her destinies and owes no
favors.
When the civil war broke out in Spain Portugal
was already anxious about the turn events had been
taking in that'country, not because the Republic was
potentially hostile, but because of the possible reper-
cussion at Lisbon of the disorders the Popular Front
Government was bringing. Lisbon dreaded even the
remembrance of a demagogic system that had con-
spicuously failed after a trial of 16 years to bring the
reforms trumpeted so vainly. Portugal therefore
readily espoused the cause of General Franco and
celebrates to-day his victory.
With the cessation of hostilities comes the chance
of a durable peace in the Peninsula. It is an excellent
augury, now that the same principles of social justice
based on an authoritarian regime find favor at both
Madrid and Lisbon, that the first act of the two coun-
tries has been to sign a treaty of peace and amity,
which treaty was immediately ratified and undoubtedly
responds to the intimate desires of the Iberian peoples.
Obviously, in the event of a war between Eng-
land and France on one side and Germany and Italy
on the other the treaty would come under a severe
strain. The test would be Spain’s neutrality, for it is
difficult to think of Portugal standing by with Spain
attacking or allowing to be attacked from her terri-
tory Gibraltar or French towns across the Pyrenees.
There is reason to believe that Burgos fully realises
this.
Portugal and Spain can do much by action in
common to secure stability in Western Europe, securing
Krivitsky!
In the article on this page headed “Krivitsky
‘Exposed’ ” the “Saturday Evening Post”
exposes the ■ alleged exposure.
One or two aspects of the alleged exposure
of Krivitsky touched on by the “Post” were
present also in A ustralian — or, at any rate,
Sydney— acceptance of the charges made in
the article originally published in the New
York Communist publication “New Masses.”
In Sydney, radio station 2UW made a great
mouthful of the alleged exposure. The Bulle-
tin is informed from that station that 2UW’s
contribution to the “exposure” was made on
the authority of the publications “Ken” and
“Life.” Evidently 2UW was unaware that the
Communist publication “New Masses” was the
only original authority. This ignorance on
2UW’s part is understandable, since, as the
“Post” points out, none of the publications
which rushed to take the Communist paper’s
word for it mentioned that paper as the source
of their information !
However, 2UW is now aware that the
“Post” has exposed the alleged “exposure,” and
perhaps by this time the station has acknow-
ledged the “Post’s” crushing retort, giving it,
out of ordinary fairness, the same measure of
publicity that was given to the so-called
“exposure” which originally emanated from
the Communist “New Masses.”
Sydney’s “Workers’ Weekly,” which wears
a hammer and sickle as its middle-name, was,
however, better informed. It acknowledged
the alleged exposure to “New Masses,” innocu-
ously described as “the American periodical.”
It, of course, accepted the “New Masses” “ex-
posure” as conclusive and cheered 2UW. It is
unlikely to be any more careful of similar
blundering in the future, but the radio station
which has earned its congratulations certainly
ought to be.


thereby for themselves the opportunity for peace-
ful development their peoples desire. War would be
disastrous, for it would upset in Portugal the far-
reaching plans of Senhor Oliveira Salazar and com-
plete the impoverishment of Spain caused by the civil
war.
What an opportunity for a new force to arise in
Christendom and for two great Catholic peoples to
demonstrate to Marxism and totalitarianism alike that
they can go one better in establishing a national pros-
perity based on justice to all. It might be a lesson to
the world at a turning point of civilisation.
Tientsin Realities.
(From an article in “Great Britain and the East.”)
The Japanese claim that China has never relin-
quished her sovereignty over the foreign Concessions,
and that, as they have conquered China, the control
of them automatically passes to Japan.
Apart from the fact that they have conspicuously
not conquered even the parts adjacent to Tientsin and
Peking, where they are supposed to be strongest, this
is preposterous. The Tientsin British Concession, like
others, came into being in 1860, under the Treaty of
1858, the British Government obtaining a perpetual
leasehold of the ground and sub-leasing it to British
merchants. The lease may be cancelled and the control
given up, .as at Hankow in 1927, but to the Chinese
Government, not to any precarious marauder.
In the course of years Tientsin has become the
channel of a very rich trade. Furs, hides and wool
from Mongolia, carpets, cotton, tobacco, bristles and
many other products pass through Tientsin, and of
these British merchants have handled an important
part, to a value of some £4,000,000 annually. This is
the real objective of the Japanese Army’s outrageous
blockade, which is the first move in a desperate
attempt to get something out of their gamble in China.
British interests in that country are generally
computed at between £200,000,000 and £300,000,000 ;
and not only the Japanese Army, but even some of
the Osaka merchants, believe that, if the British can
be driven out, all these rich spoils would be theirs.
Tientsin is a test case. There the Japanese believe
that they can isolate the British and bring them low,
and if they succeeded the doom of British interests
in China would be sealed.
Shanghai Next?
(From an “Evening Standard” article by Dudley Barker.)
It may be that the Japanese have blockaded the
British and French Concessions at Tientsin to begin
to thrust the British from China altogether. If the
British are to go at all, they must go also from Shang-
hai, greatest city of China, among the first half-dozen
ports of the world. Shanghai is a sea-gate for about
£300,000,000 of trade a year, half that of all China.
It is one thing to blockade the British conveni-
ently grouped in a Concession in Tientsin, quite an-
other to oppose them in Shanghai where they co-
operate, in an International Settlement, not only with
Americans and Chinese, but with the Japanese them-
selves. Of the £250,000,000 Britain has invested in
China, about £180,000,000 is in Shanghai.
Already Japanese have all the liberties and rights
that other foreigners enjoy in the International Settle-
ment. There are many Japanese in the police force.
Japanese troops can parade through the streets. Japa-
nese businessmen do trade there, as freely as the
traders of any other nation.
In the past the Chinese have always clamored
to eject the British and all the other foreigners with
extra-territorial rights on Chinese soil. Now it seems
it is the Japanese who would thrust us out.
When they come to Shanghai they will have no
legal or peaceful means to do so. A decisive chal-
lenge by power-politics must ensue —unless the Japa-
nese warhorse has already been hauled back on its
haunches at Tientsin.
Beaverbrook on America’s Attitude
(Statement by Lord Beaverbrook in the “Daily Express”)
I have always taken the view that the Americans
are not deeply concerned with the European situation,
and that it would not be easy to bring them back
again over the Atlantic in the defence of liberty.
But I am also convinced, as a native of that
American continent, and for long a resident on the
American boundary, that if war breaks out in the
Pacific Japan will have to face at once the American
naval forces and all the strength and resources of the
United States.
The reason is not far to seek. The Americans
will not permit that menace to become a terror.
A Zionist Misconception.
(From an article in “Great Britain and the East")
There is little doubt that much of the violence
now being manifested in the Holy Land derives from
a belief that Britain’s recently-announced policy can
be reversed. It is being suggested that the Zionists
have only to show a resolute and united front in order
to sabotage the policy that now has the sanction of
the British Parliament.
Such a reading of the situation is a profound
misconception, and the longer it is persisted in the
worse for all concerned. There is absolutely nothing
to indicate that Britain will overturn the policy on
which it has decided after exhaustive thought and
investigation. Far the wisest thing for all Jews in
Palestine would be to recognise, as such Jewish leaders
as Einstein have already recognised, that the Jewish
race has obstacles to face infinitely greater than that
alleged to have been created by the British Govern-
ment. American opinion, on which the official Zion-
ists banked heavily, has in the main shown no disposi-
tion to attack the Mandatory Power: it realises that
emotional talk of “betrayal” may betoken inaction
for the greater task of rescuing Jewry where it is
persecuted, and that the most urgent task for the
Jews in Palestine is to cultivate good relations with
the Arabs.
The British are not unsympathetic towards the
Jews. Neither the British people nor the British
Government are unmoved by their plight, and what
lies in their power reasonably to do will be done. But
neither our people nor our Government will counten-
ance the sacrifice of British soldiers to enforce in
Palestine a policy which meets with genuinely patriotic
resistance.
There could be a vast change in the general atmo-
sphere if the Jews, who seem unreasonably to com-
plain when collective punishments are meted out to
them as they have been meted out to the Arabs, would
dispassionately examine the possibilities of the policy
to which the Mandatory Power has irrevocably set its
hand. Many Jews have no need of such advice : their
“Reichswart,” Berlin.
ENGLAND AS A ROO.
With Poland, Turkey and France already in the Roo’s
pouch and the Soviet being beckoned, who, asks this
Berlin cartoonist, will succeed in catching whom?
perceptiveness has already seized them of the desir-
ability of co-operation. To other Jews this advice
may be unpopular, but time will vindicate its wisdom.
In Russia To-day.
(i Condensed from a London “Sunday Express” article by
Viscount Forbes.).
Since returning from Russia I am constantly
greeted with the phrase “I suppose they only showed
you what they wished you to see.” This seems to me
to be foolish, for the Russians will show you any-
thing except their military factories and organisation.
The visitor is free to wander where he wishes
through the streets of Moscow. He can see how the
people live and what accommodation they have. And
from the way the people live a fair estimate can be
gained of the prosperity of a country.
There are many large State-owned shops in the
city. The windows are attractively dressed. Outside
many of the shops are large queues, waiting for shoes
or dress, butter, milk or any other of the necessities
of life. There is a shortage in Moscow both of food
and of manufactured goods. The shortage is due
largely to distribution difficulties and to the fact that
the Soviet Union attempts to be entirely self-support-
ing. ...
The population of Moscow has increased rapidly
in the last few years, and is now four and a half mil-
lions. There is never enough of anything to go round.
If you wish to have a chicken for lunch you may
have to stand in a queue for three or four hours. A
shop which has a dress in stock which is popular may
have a queue of many hundreds waiting outside. A
girl in the Soviet Union is doing pretty well if she
can buy a dress every two years. One Russian told
me she was very sorry that the Spanish war was over
because now silk stockings were very hard to get. The
Spanish Government exchanged silk hose for Russian
guns.
The average wage of a worker is 285 roubles a
month, which is, according to the Soviet exchange, a
little under £l2 a month. That sounds pretty good
until you go shopping. A pair of shoes averages about
150 roubles, which is £6. A dress or coat costs be-
tween 500 and 700 roubles. The best butter costs
10s. a pound, cabbage ss. a pound, potatoes 3s. a
pound and a small loaf about Is. 6d.
Against this it must be borne in mind that rents
are extremely low in Moscow. Workers receive free
medical and other services. They have one month’s
holiday with pay and every sixth day is a rest day.
They work only seven hours a day.
In Moscow not every one earns the average wage.
Civil servants and officials, engineers, artists and the
intelligentsia do all right. Engineers _ are very well
paid. They earn a wage comparable with that paid in
England. Civil servants and officials also have many
benefits over the ordinary working man. These privi-
leged classes have special shops in which to buy their
clothes, and also special restaurants. When there is
a shortage among the workpeople, these privileged
classes are able to obtain what they require.
Artists and the intelligentsia can earn much the
same as in England. A film star or a good writer will
have everything that he or she requires. A writer
sells his books to the Soviet Book Trust and he re-
ceives royalty in just the same way as in a capitalist
country. With his money he can buy a car ; and he
can have a house of his own both in Moscow and in
the country. Army, air and naval officers are also
among the privileged classes, and receive high salaries.
I offered a three-year-old suit of mine to one of
the commission shops, in which it is possible to have
any article sold for a 10s. commission. The Govern-
ment shopkeeper assured me he could get £35 for it.
The biggest factory I saw builds cars and lorries.
It is supposed to be producing 15 Zis cars a day and
240 lorries. I counted the time it took for a lorry to
come off the production line, and it seemed to me
that they were producing something like 150 and not
240 lorries that day.
The cars and lorries which they are producing
are already out of date according to our standards,
but they work well. The production would not be
economical in either Europe or America. They employ
twice as many men to produce the same number of
units as we do.
Take, for instance, the Zis car —this factory is
producing only about 5000 of them a year. But to
produce 5000 cars the same amount of machinery is
used which could produce 50,000 at very little extra
cost. The Russians sell this car for about £4OO, and
I estimate it costs them £3OOO to produce it. But
economy does not seem to matter in Russia.
Study in Comparative Hysterics.
[Persistent harping on supposed British “degeneracy’'
—not by foreign propaganda instruments alone—
excuses this burst on the trumpet by Emrys Jones, in
London “Daily Mail.”]
For some years I have been watching the
reactions of foreign peoples to acts of terrorism and
political violence.
In a Czech village somebody takes a potshot at
a policeman, and within the hour there is a curfew ;
windows must be closed, otherwise the policemen will
fire through them. Armored cars are on the streets,
and you are unlucky if you happen to be out and
get caught. It may mean a bullet in the back.
I have seen another Continental nation almost
tear part of a town apart merely because two people
refused to stand to sing the National Anthem. Nearly
everywhere abroad you can work the people up into a
state of political hysteria at short notice.
In London political terrorists are throwing bombs.
What happens? A friend of mine is being driven
home from a cinema, and the cabby says, “I’m sorry,
sir, we’ll have to go down the ’Aymarket. They’ve
been throwing bombs in Piccadilly.” Just as if some-
body has been throwing confetti. No panic. No
alarm. Merely inconvenience. Then the cab pulls
up in a traffic block and a young man in a sports
car leans over and asks the cabby what all the fuss
is about. . .
“Somebody’s been throwing bombs in Piccadilly,
and they’ve had to divert the traffic.”
“Oh,” says the young man. “What a darn
nuisance.”
As for me, I’m having supper with hundreds of
other people in a restaurant. There is a loud report
outside. The people look at each other for a moment
in silence Somebody breaks it with a laughing “That’s
the I.R.A. boys again.” And we go on eating.
Well, the noise is made by bombs exploding just
outside. But nobody rushes in a panic into the restau-
rant to say what’s happened, nobody rushes out to
see for himself. From Berlin to Warsaw, from Bel-
grade to Budapest, the doors would have been closed,
sentries posted and the streets cleared. Not here. The
British public takes the whole business in its stride,
which means that if anybody abroad thinks that these
people are going to be easily panicked by raids, then
he may think again.
Look what the people on the spot remark. One
of the injured says: “A ginger-haired man jumped out
and threw something on the pavement. He immedi-
ately got into the cab, which drove off. One of my
friends said ‘That must be a bomb,’ and walked
towards it. As he did so the explosion took place.”
“He walked towards it!” Can you beat that?
Well, there was the man who the other week saw
something fizzing on Hammersmith Bridge, walked
towards it, saw it was a bomb, and hurled it into
the river. , . .
Now it needs a high sort of courage to do this
kind of thing, and we need not stress that any more.
Then how about that unfortunate story in the
newspapers not long back? Nicholas Comper, the
aircraft designer and pilot, was a practical joker, who
was seen to stoop to light something in the street at
Hythe, Kent. According to Samuel Reeves, a laborer,
Comper was heard to say “I am an I.R.A. man, so
Reeves ran forward and hit Comper on the jaw. He
fell and struck his head on the ground and died.
Now that is a regrettable ending to a practical
joke but the point here is that Reeves thought Comper
was kn I.R.A. man lighting a bomb. But instead of run-
ning away, he went to tackle a supposed enemy. And
don’t forget-that on the ground at his feet was some-
thing he thought was a bomb that might destroy him
at any moment. , . c ,
Reeves, charged with manslaughter, was found
This little account is written for the attention ol
foreigners who are busy telling their people how
easily the morale of the inhabitants of these island,
can be destroyed.
J. Bull's Policy.
The four basic principles of British policy,
as expounded by Lord Halifax and Mr.
Chamberlain:—
(/) Any of Germany’s claims is open to
consideration round the table. Great Britain
is only too anxious to see- rival claims adjusted
on a basis which may secure lasting peace.
(2) The British Government is not only
willing, but anxious, to explore the whole prob-
lem of economic living-room for Germany.
(3) Great Britain and France and the coun-
tries with which they have been in consultation
would never commit any act of aggression or
attempt by indirect means to undermine the
independence or security of another State.
(4 ) Further acts of aggression against the
independence of European States would be
resisted, if tie cess ary, by force of arms.


HAMPTON COURT
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
• Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
aiiai'iaipQ!
sasg
m mi ’efat rs\\ o\':'w\vlv
m rni mi r , roi 'rmjGMp\
en rrti ctj/; rr?/
□ flrr
'IV wn
all
SB&S
nFiMrnrwf
Qiiaiisias
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates: Single Room
with private bath
from 10/6 per
night. Suites from
£l/1/- per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
e
“Dancing feet can be a ready reckoner to
romance.” — Women’s paper.
When a girl dances about with a tough
problem she’s got to have her answers
ready.
4 4, 4. 4
“Stole £SO and Bolted.” —“Sunday Sun.”
The cops bridled when they found he’d
left no traces.
4. 4. 4. 4.
“Many authors put their wives in the books
they write.”— Essayist.
That’s one way of shutting them up.
4. 4. 4. 4.
“Every noted airman in America will be
present on this occasion.”— Cable.
All the birds of the air. *
4. 4. 4. 4.
“The police ridiculed the incoherent story of
the teller, who insisted that he had been held-up
and robbed.” —Court evidence.
Obviously his account was overdrawn.
“Many Sydney residents are awakened by
telephone early each morning.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
They can catch up on their sleep when
trying to put a call through later in the
day.
The world appears to be made up of
different hemisfears just at present.
-I* 4 *l* 4
“Measles Delay Landing.”— "Sun.”
Couldn’t find the right spot.
4 4 4 4
“Unbeatable bargains! A fine assortment of
dinner gongs.” —Pawnshop ad.
Apparently for ornamental purposes
only.
World Affairs.
E.L.R.
w
A Slight Explosion.
“Artillery Hold Ball.” —"Daily News.”
Quite a crowd were jammed into the
smoky hall, and there were so many
barrels that even experienced tanks got
shot.
However, all went well until one
gunner cannoned into another’s blonde
bombshell. The girl seemed disposed to
range, but her partner, who had blown-
up his cash on her, did not intend to
lever, as he knew there would be no re-
bound. So he told the offender that he
was up against a man of the right
calibre.
But the other still aimed at making a
hit with the girl, and his efforts to rifle
her were so flagrant that her rightful
escort was forced to let go a salvo at
his tormentor’s jaw. Immediately both
men began to subject each other to a
battery.
The upshot was they both got into
trouble with the big guns.
T.W.N.
Just a Few Words.
Whenever I think I Mve a victory it
is merely the calm that precedes the
storm. It was like that when I said “No”
firmly to Maria’s latest hat-desire, and
thought that the stern finality of my tone
had triumphed.
Much later I had declined to be had
by the newsboy’s pretence that he’d run
out of ha’pence and, after much search-
ing of pockets, had got my change.
“What a mean thing!” said Maria dis-
dainfully. “Why couldn’t you let the
poor boy have the ha’penny?”
“He’s worked the dodge too often,” I
said.
“It would do him more good than you.
He may be helping a poor struggling
mother. You know, you are a mean
man, Aitchem. And not only with
starving newsboys, either. What about
that hat I want?”
“What connection in the world is there
between a hat and starvation?” I pro-
tested ; but in a minute the conversation
(hers) was all hat and my shortcomings.
I was a mongrel, pigheaded and a lot
more.
Determined not to lose my temper, I
moved with dignity towards the door.
“We've never had the heart to uproot it !"
But hearing Maria’s “Take that!” I
dodged down behind the table. The clock
smashed the glass of a picture.
“Yes! You would try to sneak away
like a cur!” raved Maria, dashing to
intercept me at the door. Fortunately the
room had two doors. I went through
the other.
Just afterwards Ma-in-law arrived. It
was the sound of voices that drew me
back.
“All I did was to ask him to buy me
a hat, and look what happened!” Maria
was sobbing.
It was certainly something to look at
—the wreckage. And you really can’t
blame mothers-in-law when matters are
put that way.
Well —Maria has her hat. “Aitchem
and I had a few words, but he has such
a violent temper,” is the way she describes
the incident.
H.M.
Wise.
King Solomon had many wives
And yet remained benign.
The only explanation is
That he hadnone like mine.
PATON.
Craftsman.
“He always committed his burglaries by skil-
fully removing a window-pane.” —Crime story.
Though common burglars seek to rob
By breaking-in where others dwell,
This chap, more subtle on the job,
Took panes to do it well.
T.W.N.
How to Become a Handyman.
A Complete Guide.
XIV.
Whilst there is truth ,in the adage that
the man who is his own lawyer has a
fool for a client, the same does not neces-
sarily hold good of the man who essays
to become his own plumber. Admittedly,
there are a few tricky points in the game
which may be beyond the amateur, such
as putting in a hot-water service or wip-
ing a joint, but, by and large, anyone
can plumb if he uses ordinary nous. Cer-
tainly any ordinary plumbing jobs around
the house should be easy for the handy-
man.
The prudent fellow doesn’t wait until
rust-eaten holes in the guttering allow
the rain to cascade down his walls and
perhaps in through a window. He sub-
jects it to regular tests so as to renew
any weak parts before it gets to that
stage.
Best method is to take half a dozen
building bricks, tied together, up on to
the roof and, holding them about five
feet above it, drop them straight into
the guttering. If they go straight through
that portion obviously needs replacing.
If, on the other hand, it merely sags, the
time can be accounted ripe for the re-
newal of the galvanised clips that hold it
to the eaves. Go right around the house,
dropping the bricks, say, every three feet.
Be sure, though, to drop them only on
their flat side; if they fall on their edges
or a corner unsightly dents may be left
in the guttering.
Cut out all defective portions with the
tin snips. If it is very heavy-gauge iron
and these boggle at the job, try the tin-
opener ; this will give a better leverage.
If neither is successful —and in any case
the reinforced edge would defy all such
efforts —cut it through with the saw. A
ripsaw will prove less satisfactory than
a crosscut; remember you will be cutting
across, and not along, the grain of the
iron. The resetting of the saw later will
afford you excellent practice.
As a saw cutting through iron is bound
to set the teeth on edge, those who sport
hand-made sets of crockery would be well
advised to take them out before starting
this work. For the handyman who still
has his own tatts, stuffing his ears up with
cotton-wool will obviate this distressing
condition.
Having cut the defective part out —a
free, flowing stroke will ensure clean-
sawn edges—measure the gap carefully.
As guttering is usually obtained in
standard lengths, it follows that you will
have to cut these into the lengths you
have measured, thus getting that perfect
fit so necessary to take the soldering,
which is your next task.
To make sure that a red-hot soldering-
iron is right to your hand, get a roaring
brazier going—several holes punched in
the bottom and sides of the dustbin will
serve the purpose—and take this up on
the roof with you. If the pitch of the
roof is so steep that the brazier won’t
“stay put,” remove a tile close to the
edge, balance the edge of the brazier on
the sound portion of the guttering, and
connect the top of it to the batten in
the roof by a rigid piece of heavy wire.
You can either work upwards from
underneath the guttering while standing
on the ladder or downwards from the
roof. The former method, though
quicker, has the slight disadvantage that
blobs of red-hot solder are liable to fall
down your neck or in your eye, or run
down the handle of the iron on to your
arm. If you elect to operate from the
roof—and only those who don’t fear a
rush of blood to the head should tackle
this—don’t forget to loop one end of a
rope around an ankle, tying the other
end about the chimney.
Fill your garden spray with spirits of
salts and blow some liberally on to the
edges of the new guttering, which you
will have wedged into position. Then,
holding the hot soldering-iron against a
stick of solder, run it along where the
edges meet. Any blobs of solder that
break away and stick elsewhere along
the guttering can easily be removed with
a chisel when cold.
The renewal of a washer to stop a tap
from dripping is one of the commonest
tasks about a house, yet how few men
can do it efficiently!
It should be borne in mind that the
quicker you are over this job the less
messy it will be. Arrange everything
within hand’s reach before you start.
Turn the tap on full, and with your
footprint wrench unscrew it. Thus, in-
stead of the water squirting out fiercely
from all sides as the thread is loosened,
as it would if you were to have it turned
off, it will flow out steadily. Of course,
some water must necessarily fly around
with the turning tap, but most of this will
go down the sink.
As soon as you have the tap off whip
the old washer off and the new one on,
and run some strands of hemp around
the thread of the exposed pipe. Then,
holding the tap immediately in front of
the pipe, from which the water will now
be issuing, shut your eyes, clamp it on
and whirl it round and round until it
grips, and then finish the tightening up
with the footprints.
If you have been too liberal with the
hemp and the outlet of the tap finishes
by pointing to the ceiling, it will be
necessary to unscrew it again sufficiently
to allow extraction of some of the sur-
plus hemp and then retighten. Keep
doing this until the tap faces the proper
way again. It only remains to wipe
down the walls and mop up the floor
and the. job is complete.
S.W.K.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Clem Hill challenged criticism by some
of his allotments for events at Caulfield
last Saturday. For instance, he placed
Maikai on the minimum for the Mur-
rumbeena Handicap. The distance was
that of the Caulfield Cup ; Maikai had
Bst. 51b. in the Caulfield Cup and Bst. 41b.
in the Melbourne Cup. Admittedly the
Easter form of Maikai in Sydney, where
he was trained by Frank McGrath, was
poor; but at Caulfield on June 26 Hill
made him concede Rivette 121 b. in a mile
Welter. On Saturday these horses car-
ried 7st. 51b. each.
Maikai (Pantheon-Ornum) belongs to
W. J. Winterbottom, of Westralia. In
January, 1938, he won the Perth Cup
with 7st. 111 b. and annexed two weight-
for-age races at the same meeting. Frank
Godby, who trains him now, must have
been confident of success at Caulfield,
for the gelding firmed from tens to 11
to 2, closely pressing Rivette for
“We'll 'ave to move on again , Bert —'ere comes that copper .”
favoritism. Ridden with better judgment,
he would have won.
Last early, Maikai made up ground
too rapidly between the mile and half-
mile. He actually led into the straight
by a couple of lengths, but tired and lost
to Rivette by 1| lengths, with Rose
Prince a moderate third. Now that he
has regained form he will have to be re-
garded with respect in long-distance
races, for in the West he beat some good
horses.
Fred Hoysted, who trained Redditch
and other great jumpers, must have been
delighted to find Black Hook on 9st. in
the Godfrey Watson Steeple. As a hunter
Black Hook far excelled contemporaries
of that type, and he gave promise of
being a crackajack ’chaser. Fact of Black
Hook not having raced for months made
punters shy of supporting him, and he
eased from eights to twelves. He led
Deckard (2 to 1, favorite) by two lengths
at the mile and was almost on terms
with four furlongs to go. Lacking con-
dition, Black Hook was beaten by both
Deckard and Wakerife.
Deckard has fallen as often as he has
won. Remembering what happened in
the Grand National, backers gasped
when “S. A. Rawdon’s” neddy bungled
the second-last jump. In the run-home he
cleared away and lumped 12st. to the
easiest of victories.
In a sense Bonnington’s pronounced
failure in the second division of the
Malvina Welter justified Hill’s handicap-
ping. Bonnington is by way of being a
provincial champion, and in the present
season has won the Kyneton Cup, Caster-
ton Cup and Swan Hill Cup. Bookmakers
thought him a good thing with Bst. 91b.
(minimum Bst.), and offered 5 to 2 in
dolorous tones. However, C. T. Godby
and his followers made Country Party
oust Bonnington from favoritism. Neither
horse came up to expectations, Montaza
(tens) scoring brilliantly from Birdplay
and Great Saint.
Xavier, originally trained by George
Jones but now in the stable of Jack Fryer,
landed the Lillimur Two-year-old at the
substantial odds of 15 to 1, followed
home by Hectare and Pure Gold. Last-
named is a brother to Hall Mark, and it
won’t be long before he repays the care
of Jack Holt.
Pooley Bridge (13 to 8, favorite) fell
three furlongs from home in the Leam-
ington Hurdle. He wasn’t travelling like
a winner at the time. Spoils went to Sir
Gordon (11 to 2), who seems destined to
do Alex. Fullarton great credit as a
trainer of jumpers.
Footmark, third to Maikai in that Perth
Cup, came to light in the first division of
the Malvina Welter. Favorite at fours,
he squeezed home by half a head from
Gay Invader. He is a four-year-old son
of Defoe, the sire of Defaulter.
Caulfield punters did fairly well. Bur-
rabil (threes) and Delvino. (fours) were
favorites for their respective divisions of
the Kambrook Trial. Burrabil belongs
to J. M. Slattery, who used to be in the
top flight of amateur jockeys before
middle age and increasing weight crept
on him. Footmark, Burrabil and Mon-
taza are four-year-olds.
* *
Grey Derby used to be considered a
speedy squib. Since he joined Jim Pike’s
string the roan horse has improved in
looks and stamina, and his recent per-
formances have been very profitable to
the Tamworth owner, McLeod.
The Turf Club Handicap at Canter-
bury Park was worth £350, and provided
brisk betting. Grey Derby was favorite
at 5 to 1. Jones, on Blinky Bill, tried
to break up the field. He soon had the
little horse’s opponents strung out like a
camel train, and half a mile from home
Blinky Bill was five lengths in front. He
still had a good lead as he swung into
the straight, having been followed
throughout by Shipley and Grey Derby.
Beginning the last furlong, Fell brought
Grey Derby along on the outside, and,
finishing best, the favorite won cleverly
by three-quarters of a length, Shipley
being third, three lengths behind Blinky
Bill. It was a nine-furlongs race, run
in 1.53.
Korimako was backed, but the track
and the big field (of 16) did not suit the
Magpie mare. Cid was prominent to
the home turn, but had had enough at
the Leger. Tickle’s fourth was creditable,
for she could not get out of the ruck until
the race was practically over. Country
performers Val William and Dubonnet
were never in it, and Dulcedo was
beaten a long way from the judge.
Canterbury Park is Brazandt’s favorite
course, and he showed in the Flying Han-
dicap that he did not lose his pace during
that unfortunate sojourn in Melbourne.
McCarten secured a moving start on the
topweight. Just as well for those who
took the price (threes), as, though he led
throughout, Brazandt was all out to beat
the two-year-old, El Valor, by a head.
Kooba, last early, was third, two lengths
away. Royal Ensign faded after trying
to pace it with Brazandt, and they made
it too fast for Rathlin. “Six” in 1.12$
is nailing good time for Canterbury Park.
Brazandt has now won 16 races,
six of them at the Park. He has been
defeated only once there.
Buzzal, by The Buzzard-Salvia, has not
been hurried along. A big three-year-
old, he did not open his account until
last month. In the Campsie Handicap, of
11 furlongs, he was never off the bit.
Running past Australasia half a mile
from home, he was allowed to lob along
by Harvey; nevertheless he beat Mis-
chief and Australasia easily.
Buzzal was favorite, at 7 to 4. He has
7st. in the Metrop., and is to be trained
for that race. If he wins, the Melbourne
Cup may not be beyond him ; he has
7st. also at Flemington, and the penalty
could be only 101 b.
Another likely customer though
sprinting may be his forte —is Vergure,
by Flaming Orb-Ventolina. Winner of
two races in Ireland as a two-year-old,
he scored at his first attempt on the
Richmond (N.S.W.) course, and, saddled
up for the first division of the Park
Stakes, he did it again. He is not much
to look at, being plain and little more
than a pony, but he has speed and pluck
—as he showed in beating Bestop by
half a neck. Enatic was only a head
away, third. Vergure started at twos
after opening at 6 to 4 and easing to
threes.
Reception (Marconigram-Breezy) is
another three-year-old worthy of notice.
He has won at Wagga and Gundagai,
and he made hacks of his opponents in
the second division of the Park Stakes.
Backed at sevens, he was first out and
first home, winning by lengths from Fan
Dancer and Fanciful. Form pointed to
The Nineteenth, but he ran a poor race.
Keewong, who has 9.5 in the
V.A.T.C. Australian Hurdle, made light
of his 11.5 in the Brush Hurdle. He
led throughout, giving a flawless display
of jumping. In view of the form shown
by Cheery Jack and Winning Post, Kee-
wong should do well in Melbourne. He
is owned by pastoralist C. L. Weston.
Castalia (9 to 4) had too much toe
for her opponents in the first division
of the Juvenile. She romped home from
Climax and Royal Routine, Folk Song
and Hole in One—who had to race wide
all the way. The second division proved
a soft snap for Jazbeau. He eased in the
betting from twos to 7 to 2, but this un-
certainty did not stop the Rosehill-trained
colt, who defeated Novice and Metallic
with ease. Aldabra, a daughter of
Gloriole, had the box seat to the home
turn and then dropped out beaten.
* * * *
Sydney people have a high respect for
Thurles Lad as a six-furlongs horse, but
recent performances of the good-looking
son of Saltash-Hostess have been dis-
appointing. At Eagle Farm on Saturday
Thurles Lad was third to Schoolmate
and Tears in the Benevolent Handicap.
Favorite at 5 to 4, he finished a couple
of lengths behind the winner, whose time,
I.ll£, equalled the course record. W. J.
Shean, who trains Micawber for Alan
Cooper, was represented by a winner—
Sculptor, in the Benefit Handicap. Sculp-
tor went out at 9 to 2 in a field of six,
and hadn’t to be overexerted to beat
Teringa and the 5-to-4 favorite, Don-
arium.
It was Teringa’s third third in three
starts ; he occupied that position in Coor-
angle’s Carnival Handicap and Doomben
Cup. In a race before the Carnival Han-
dicap, the Birthday Handicap, he was
fourth, Sculptor being successful again.
Sculptor is an aged gelding by High
Art out of Lileacre, dam of several win-
ners. Teringa is a six-year-old gelding
by Windbag’s brother Bicolor-Lady
Romance.
* Sp * *
“T.”: Australian-bred sires scooped
the pool at the Port Adelaide club’s
meeting on Saturday. Of the six winners
Lady Sharine (Kambula Handicap) and
Pimlico (Tenterden Handicap) are by
Shakuni, First Brigade (Hurdle) by
Stand By, Curly Top (Trial Stakes) by
Colonel Aides, Salmar (Welter) by
Salatis, and Kaerleon (St. Clair Handi-
cap) by Amalfi. Shakuni is remembered
in Sydney as a pretty good two-year-
old. He didn’t train on, and was re-
tired to the stud early. He is making a
name for himself as a sire of sprinters.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Alan Copper talks of
running race meetings on his Hunter
River Valley property, which is being
fitted up as a course, with portable fit-
tings and refrigerators assuring an un-
limited supply of iced beer. It sounds
attractive, particularly the iced-beer part,
but if the plan provides for bookmakers
and totes there may be a difficulty about
getting a license. It has been written
that Cooper can get one from the A.J.C.,
but the AJ.C. can’t grant him immu-
nity from the anti-gaming laws, however
philanthropic his intentions may be. Why
doesn’t the man offer to come out as a
U.A.P. candidate?
* * * *
Maikai was not nominated for the
Metropolitan, never having cottoned on
to the Sydney way of galloping. He has
7.11 in the Caulfield Cup and the same
in the Melbourne Cup, and will now
come into the betting—on the two-miler,
anyhow. There are not many stayers
about.
* * * ©
Pike now cherishes hopes of winning
the Epsom with Grey Derby. Before
the lathy horse came into Pike’s hands
he could scarcely go seven furlongs;
now he has proved that a furlong beyond
the Epsom distance is not too far for
him. His Epsom weight is 7.4. It doesn't
look a strong field, and little Fell won’t
have to reduce.
$ fr-
“S.H.”: Xavier’s victory at Flemington
recalls that other prominent racehorse
owners besides the owner of that colt
(C. J. McCarthy) were educated at the
Melbourne college. Clive Leonard (chair-
man, V.A.T.C.) and his brother Charlie
were’ Xavier boys in the ’nineties, and
the three brothers who raced as “J. E.
Stanley” (O’Keefes) were old Xavierians.
The three brought to Australia, amongst
other horses, Traquair, sire of Woorak
and other good ones.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Ardmillan Handicap: Bonning-
ton ; next, Diaphane.
Kinross Handicap: Hilton : next.
Carpentier.
Boiardo Steeple: Wakerife ; next,
Bully Hayes.
Northwood Welter: Somerset:
next, Country Party.


SMOOTH SHAVE
II
E O
| Sole Agents: JOUBERT C- JOUBERT PTY. LTD.
G-IN-ONE
ll DENTAL CREAM
cleans both Natural and
Artificial teeth perfectly
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
LIONEL ISIBUY, famous Itifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmo?is Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice,
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
No. 45—COOEY “MOHAWK,”
• 22-cal., single shot, chambered
for short, long or long-rifle.
Barrel 27in., walnut stock, ele-
vating rear sight and silver bead
front sight. Overall length,
43 J inches. Weight, /
61b.
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front
sight; weight, j?a /I n /
about 4Jlb. £2/10/-
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action,
.22 calibre, rim-fire, 2 7in.
round blued steel barrel;
ladder rear sight, nty /in/
weight, 4-|lb.; *“/ ■*■"/"
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 32 —BROWNING
“TROMBONE” HAM-
MERLESS REPEATING
RIFLE, 22in. round steel
barrel; handles 22 short,
long or long-rifle cart-
ridges; screw rear and
open front sights;
length overall, 39in.;
weight over- _ /£ ,
all, 4 Jib.. . . £5/12/6
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G., top lever bar
action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke,
rebounding locks, crossbolt, snap fore-
end, half-pistol grip, walnut nt Cltty /
stock £l6/16/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 27 —B.S.A. D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
SHOT GUN, Wildfowling Model, 12G.,
30in. barrels, both choke; nitro-
proof automatic safety chambered for
3in. cartridges; weight, «?r»i lte\i
81b. £2l/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 —FABRIQUE NATION ALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip, - 1 /1 1 /
nitro proof; weight, about 7lb. £ll/11/’
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 A—FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
similar to No. 14, but very high-grade,
with ejector; weight,
about 71b £lO/10/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
Under the Whip
When Methuen won the Trial Hurdle
at Flemington on July 8 his jockey wore
the “blue, gold armbands and cap” which
The Parisian carried to victory in the
Melbourne Cup of 1911.
The Parisian belonged to the late J. F.
Kirby, whose son races Methuen. On
a visit to Queensland some months ago,
Fullarton bought two Spearfelt geldings
for E. O. Kirby. One was Methuen and
the other Shanghai.
Shanghai went out in better request
than his stablemate, Magnus, for the Bar-
won Hurdle at Geelong on Wednesday,
their respective prices being 9 to 2 and
eights. However, Magnus (Magpie-
Orofino) beat Kirby’s prad by nearly a
length.
Progeny of Spearfelt promise to prove
as useful over obstacles as they are on
the flat. Methuen may be in the lime-
light as a Grand National aspirant next
winter. Fullarton entered him for the
big events at the recent meetings, but
decided that he wasn’t seasoned enough.
Strange that three of the greatest race-
horses Australia has produced should
have suffered from split hoofs. Carbine
"I Wasn't going to let lumbago keep me from ski-ing."
was the first in this category; then came
Prince Foote and afterwards The
Parisian.
Charles Wheeler “set” The Parisian for
the Melbourne Cup of 1910, and at long
odds the son of Bobadil was backed for
a fortune. But he split a hoof and had
to be put by. The trouble recurred after
The Parisian’s success in the Australian
Cup of 1911, and he could not do himself
justice in Sydney that autumn. But he
triumphed in the Melbourne Cup that
year.
“Snowy” Wolters, who was foreman to
Eric Connolly in the days of Anna
Carlovna and Sea Prince, won a treble
for the M.L. sportsman, G. J. Barton,
at Geelong with horses formerly trained
by Jack Fryer.
He annexed the Juvenile Trial with
Bursary, the Barwon Novice with Cortina
and the first division of the Corio Welter
with Silver Bond. Bursary (9 to 4) and
Cortina (5 to 4) were favorites for their
races, but fives could be had about Silver
Bond.
Each of these horses had to be ridden
right out to win, Bursary scoring by half
a head, Cortina by half a neck and Silver
Bond by a head. Bursary and Silver
Bond are by Pink Coat-Victory Bond.
Second dam of Victory Bond is by The
Officer, who won a V.R.C. St. Leger for
S. G. Cook before going to the stud in
Maoriland.
Cortina is a three-year-old colt by
Limond from Curtain and cost Barton
lOOOgns. as a yearling. So far he has
repaid little of the purchase money, and
the Geelong win wasn’t very impressive.
Cortina is closely related to Veilmond.
* * * *
Apparently the success of Journal in
the Caulfield Cup of 1934 has prompted
J. T. Cush to support Reading (Marconi-
gram-Gravure) for that event this year.
A commission for Reading was launched
in Melbourne and Svdnev last week.
Reading - defeated High Caste in the
A.J.C. Sires’ Produce, and. although
tables were turned in the Chamnaane
Stakes, it is believed that he will be in
the forefront of Australian three-vear-
olds next spring. Reading’s dam is a
half-sister to Journal.
* * * 4=
“Condamine”: Dead in Toqwoomba
(Q.) at 79, James Taylor, one of the
best-known and most versatile graziers
in the North. Son of a pioneer Queens-
land M.L.C., Taylor was the first child
baptised in the Drayton Church of Eng-
land, and in his early days was one of
the best amateur horsemen on the Dar-
ling Downs. He was president of the
Downs Turf Club for 19 years, retiring
in 1928. His horses ranged far afield.
He won the Queensland Derby in 1906
and the A.J.C. Doncaster in 1908 with
Togo. In an earlier day he was captain
of the Toowoomba Polo Club, and the
Toowoomba Royal Show society recog-
nised his benefactions, which ran into
thousands of pounds, by naming a
pavilion after him. The Taylors held
one of the richest of the early Downs
stations. It was resumed by the Gov-
ernment, which paid £242,000 for it and
got a bargain at that.
* * * , *
Cooranga still has 8.3 in the Caulfield
Cup and 7.13 in the Melbourne Cup, the
handicappers having decided not to
penalise her for her Doomben Cup win.
The V.R.C. man seems to be taking a
risk. Third in the Metrop., Cooranga was
finishing faster than either Royal Chief
or Buzalong, and if she can be produced
in the same form at Flemington on No-
vember 7, or in the perhaps superior form
she showed at Doomben, she may make
a mess of his handicap. It will be eighteen
years on that day since Sister Olive
won the Cup, and the previous victory
for a mare was gained by Acrasia in 1904.
Cooranga has already given the impres-
sion that she is better than either.
Q $ ft
Very tardily the A.J.C. committee is
striking at bookmaker-control of Sydney
racing, which has been carried to lengths
not permitted in States where the sport is
much more prosperous. The committee
has become inquisitive about course
bookmakers who are “reputed” to run
s.p. businesses, and from the first of
August Tommies will be forbidden to
employ “runners.” If they want to back
horses against which they think they have
laid too much or because they are “fol-
lowing the money,” they “shall transact
such business themselves.” McShort-
odds is furious, but punters are pleased.
The odds laid on Sydney courses are
about the worst in the world, and “back-
ing back” by means of “clerks” employed
as runners is at least a contributory
cause.
* * * *
A poor lot of horses race at Wednes-
day meetings in Sydney. Taroo seems
to be an exception. A three-year-old
gelding by Scarlet Square-Anina, owned
and trained by Stuart, Taroo has had
three wins “in a row,” the latest at
Victoria Park. Favorite (at twos), with
Bianconi, for the Welter Mile, he was
out by himself at the home turn, and
in the straight it was a procession, with
second (Bramana) and third (Curiosity)
lengths behind the leader, galloping at
his leisure. If Taroo goes on improving
Stuart will be sorry he didn’t nominate
him for the rich spring handicaps.
* * * *
E. L. Baillieu, one of the three owners
of Ajax, is dead in Melbourne at 71.
Queenscliff (Vic.) was his birthplace, and
he was a director of many companies
and one of the wealthiest men in the
State. For half his life he was asso-
ciated with the turf. Almissa (Moonee
Valley, Williamstown and Australian
Cups) was a Baillieu horse; so were
Aleconner (Williamstown Cup,. Epsom
and Standish), Karuma (Doncaster),
Beechwood and Dark Sky. The Sydney
accountant who races as “Mr. Constable”
was his partner in Dark Sky as well as
in Ajax, whose dam, Medmenham, E. L.
Baillieu imported. He loved horses, and
was so fond of Ajax that he used to
show his fondness in quite a boyish
way. He never married.
and Rafferty
Henneberry Wins in England
Though a win over the chap he beat
in his first English contest was nothing
much to skite about, Fred Henneberry
was able to make a good impression on
pretty fair judges in the course of the
couple of rounds it lasted. Jimmy Wilde,
for one, declared him “a grand fighter.”
“He uses the short punch that I used to
use myself,” added Jimmy.
The fight was a massacre. The victim
—George Davis, England’s southern area
middleweight champ.—was down four
times in the second round, and the ref.
mercifully called it a night in the third.
Fred fought at his keenest and liveliest
from the word go.
Davis had 19 fights last year for 13
wins, two draws and four losses. Four
of his wins were on knockouts. Butcher
Gascoigne stopped him in four rounds,
but later he drew with the Butcher. He
was also beaten by Ginger Sadd, named
as a likely opponent for Fred.
The Henneberry-Davis encounter was
a curtain-raiser to the Harvey-McAvoy
light-heavy championship scrap over 15
rounds, won by Harvey on points, but
only after weathering a torrid fourteenth
round, opinion being that McAvoy was
desperately unlucky. McAvoy—also


SAVE MONEY
IT'S
THRIFTY!
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS,
o\SS^
f
sas
Sss
J^CHAMPIOIM
Bring BETTER ACCELERATION
Spits and jerks when accelerat-
ing put a strain on your car and
on your nerves. New Champions
improve acceleration and ena-
ble your car to pull smooth-
ly. This saves fuel, too. So
much, in fact, that you
soon are repaid the cost
of your new Champions
... and more! Champions
save you money.
An Empire, product—made in
Windsor, Canada
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
NATIONAL REGISTER
CENSUSES.
17th to 29th JULY, 1939.
Every Male Person aged 18 and
under 65 years must obtain and
furnish a Personal Card.
Every Person, irrespective of sex or
age (including corporate bodies and
he agents of persons overseas), who
awns or holds on trust Property of a
value not less than £5OO must obtain
and furnish one or more Property
Cards.
Cards, pre-addressed Envelopes, and
’nstruction Sheets will be available on
Jemand at all Post Offices from the
j 7th July to 29th July, 1939, inclusive.
PENALTY: A person failing to send
m the required form or forms, or
knowingly making a false statement
therein, is liable to a maximum penalty
af £5O, or 3 months’ imprisonment,
or both. roLAND WILSON,
Commonuca Ith St a tis tician.
Better, quicker way
to clean false teeth
‘My plates were getting quite black but after
the first rinsing with ‘Steradent’ they changed
back to the normal colour they were when new.
As for the teeth they certainly look a picture.
F. 8., London.
Fill the cap of the tin with 'Steradent’
and pour the powder into a glass containing
sufficient warm water (not hot) to cover the
dentures. Stir well. Put in your dentures and
leave them while you dress or overnight. 1 ake
them out and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
The cleaning is complete.
Stains vanish. The denture gums are
made wholesome. Dingy, yellow teeth become
'live,’ lustrous, natural-looking. Steradent
penetrates into the tiniest crevices, removing
every last particle of decomposed food which a
brush could never reach. Your plate is purified,
cool, smooth to the tongue, refreshed. Stera-
dent’ is harmless to dental materials. Price 2/-,
Double Size 3/6. At all chemists.
TRIAL OFFER: Send 2d. in stamps
for trial supply to Reckitts (Over Sea)
Ltd., Box 2515 8.8., G.P.0., . Sydney,
and mention the name of this paper.
Steradent
RECD. TRADE MARK
cleans and sterilises false teeth
named as an opponent for Fred —is the
British middleweight champ. He held
the cruiserweight title, too, but lost it
also to Harvey. That was the only scrap
he lost last year, but he fought only eight
times.
Melbourne, which prefers feather-
weights and which has produced so
many good ones from Nipper Peakes
down, is now reduced to witnessing
featherweight contests between Ameri-
cans of little account as boxers, though
game enough gameness is a quality
which almost every American pug known
in these parts has shown. At the Stadium
on Wednesday night, Marino, the Mexi-
can, was matched with Johnny Litto, a
recent arrival from the U.S.A. The
Mexican gave the Gringo a pound and
a pounding. Both use their heads briskly,
in the physical, not the intellectual, way,
and after the fifth round Marino bled
from the left eye. In the ninth his
opponent’s head was gashed. The flow
of gore was such that Litto weakened,
and in the tenth, while Marino was
punching him from pillar to post, Jack
Carroll stopped it.
**=!=*
Micky Miller has been licked again—•
by Danny La Verne, at Newcastle, this
time. The affair went the full 12 rounds,
and Miller’s methods failed to please the
crowd. He fought in patches, and the
customers wanted incessant action. Miller
seems to have lost his zest for the game.
Footbrawl
Saturday’s V.F.L. matches furnished
one great surprise. On July 8 Essendon
was beaten, for the eighth time in a
dozen matches, by Footscray, whose
second win it was. On July 15, the “Same
Old” ran rings round the leading team,
Melbourne, scoring 10.17 to 7.18. In the
result, Melbourne lost its position to St.
Kilda, which now has a one-win lead
over Melbourne and Collingwood, with
Richmond another win away fourth.
Carlton is trailing the Tigers and may
yet reach the semi-finals. It beat Gee-
long handily 14.14 to 12.5. Saints took
no risks with Fitzroy, and kicked 16.19
to 13.6.
Collingwood, at full strength again, had
little more than an exercise gallop against
“Sowth”: 19.11 to 8.13. Though often
astray in direction, Richmond hadn’t a
moment’s worry opposed to Footscray—
-13.25 to 7.7. North, coming good—too
late —overwhelmed Hawthorn 18.11 to
IU6.
For half a century it has been allowed
in Melbourne that “St. Kilda is very
hard to beat on its own ground.” But
almost every season Saints have played
like champions one week and like fourth-
raters the next Saturday. They have
never won a premiership, though they
once figured in a final. This season they
have been models of consistency, and if
they keep it up the long-withheld pen-
nant may be theirs at last.
* * * *
One point separates the first five teams
in Sydney’s Rugby Union competition.
Drummoyne, Gordon and North were
beaten on Saturday, and Randwick
moved up to share the lead with Drum-
moyne, leaving Gordon, North and
Western Suburbs together.
• • • • •-
West accounted for Drummoyne—by
a point: 17-16. It was a grand game.
The Reds were winning until the last
quarter-hour; then West made its run,
McLaughlin, at centre, twice rnau. Lues
for his winger, and it looks as if the
side for Britain will miss this man.
Against Gordon, East looked something
like a team again. Its forwards kept the
highlanders quiet, and its backs ran up
three tries tc. Gordon’s two, 16-14.
With Towers back in the team, Rand-
wick had too much polish for St. George,
and the traditional ’Wick methods —
throwing the ball about among the backs
—brought five tries, 19-9. In a scram-
bling game at Parramatta “Parra” beat
the ’Varsity lads by 14-6. Manly aston-
ished even itself by defeating North 31-9.
* * * *
“Sturt”: Union Rugby is steadily tak-
ing a hold in Adelaide. Of course, ex-
perience in other States counts for a lot.
Portus, now back .from Oxford, and
secretary to S.A. Law Society, is a shin-
ing light. And, on the little-known
East Torrens Club having a good run,
the main attacking force was found to
be Ward, of the Australian XT, who
learned the game in Sydney.
* * * *
Although beaten, 2 goals to 1, in the
second Soccer match against Australia at
Brisbane, Palestine showed to better
advantage than at Sydney. Though its at-
tacking play still tended to taper off
approaching the goal-mouth, the defence
improved out of sight. Particularly was
this the case with goalie and full-backs.
Sidi threw himself about spectacularly
but with greater efficiency ; Resnick, the
skipper, didn’t spare himself, and Beth-
Halevy’s feet and head got his team out
of some awkward predicaments.
Forward play on both sides too often
became “ragged.” Australia’s goals—one
was a near thing—were landed by Crow-
hurst and Hughes, both N.S.W. men.
They have —ironically—been dropped
from the third Test in Sydney next
Saturday.
* * # *
Goodyear, which has netted the N.S.W.
State League Soccer premiership for two
years, now has a clear seven-point- lead
over its nearest challengers, and only a
series of upsets in the remaining rounds
can loosen its stranglehold on the hat-
trick. Against Weston on Saturday the
skill of the tyre-makers was thoroughly
tested, and in an exhilarating match,
which see-sawed from start to finish they
just scrambled home 5-4.
Wallsend, in second place jointly with
Weston, played spiritedly to beat Adams-
town 4-1. Metters was always on top
against Leichhardt to win 4-2. In the
other games, in which the standard of
play fell away, Woonona-Bulli beat New-
castle 3-2 ; Cessnock downed Granville
3-1, and St. George landed the only goal
of the match against Gladesville.
* * * *
Playing effervescent League Rugby,
South Sydney defeated Canterbury-
Bankstown 17-12. Tactics of both
sides favored the opening-up of the
game, and spectators welcomed this
change from the cautious play that
has featured many League matches
of late. Cant.-Bankstown came back
strongly after each successful burst by
South, and even grabbed the lead on two
occasions, but the winners always had a
bit of dash in reserve. Johnson, the State
full-back, proved the greatest stumbling-
block to C.-B. hopes; his handling and
line-kicking were superb.
St. George, the competition leader,
had many anxious moments when West-
ern Suburbs put in a do-or-die finish
from a seemingly hopeless position. A
converted try was the reward, and the
final whistle was music to the ears of the
harried Dragons, who finished up with
a 17-14 lead. Balmain broke its run of
drawn games by comfortably beating
Eastern Suburbs 15-5, and Newtown re-
volted against the wooden spoon with a
smart 13-11 win over North Sydney.
Nineteenth Hole
It didn’t take Von Nida long to strike
form after his return to Sydney. Playing
in The Lakes Open, the little Queens-
lander began with a 73, and maintained
that average with a card of 292. He
looked home and dry till two birdies
brought Bill Bolger level with him. The
pair divided first and second money and
are to play off for the title. A great 69
in the third round had put Bolger in
sight of the £ s. d.
Babe Didrikson was a competitor, but
didn’t finish as such. She began with a
77, but tired, and picked up in the third
round, though on second thoughts she
kept going to entertain the gallery. Best
of the amateurs was Tanner, with 311
(78, 78, 77, 78).
Ferrier wasn’t in the field at The
Lakes. With Mrs. F. he was defending
their N.S.W. mixed foursomes title. The
Ferriers led with a 76 for the first round,
but followed it with an 84. Not good
enough for the 159 (82 and 77) of L.
Cohen and Mrs. Hore.
* * * *
“T.”: How could Babe Didrikson
really expect to beat the men at The
Lakes? She played at Ballarat on Thurs-
day, and then motored from the City of
Statues to Melbourne to catch the Syd-
ney train. On the all-night winter journey
she slept little, and she had had only a few
hours’ “rest” when she set out to tackle
some of the best pros, in Australia, play-
ing two days and walking about ten miles
a day. An impossible contract. A lady
golfer may win a championship in open
company some day, but never in circum-
stances like those.
* * * *
“H.H.M.”: The major event at the
Cup tournament held at Murrurundi
(N.S.W.), which has a nine-holes, par-70
course, resulted in a tie between Lysaght
and McGregor, both returning cards of
149. They played another 36 holes and
tied again, and again the score was 149.
I never heard of that happening before
in championship play.
* * * *
“John B.”: Norma George, of Lith-
gow (N.S.W.), and her father came
second in the mixed foursomes cham-
pionship of the Blue Mountains and
second in the handicap, having a card
of 88, 15 —73. Norma is 12. At 11
she and H. Hoy were second in the
Lithgow foursomes. Her father, who has
a sports store, makes her sticks. He is
on a State handicap of 7.
Miscellaneous
At Long Beach, California, the Aus-
tralians had another smooth passage
towards the Davis Cup final. Sanchez,
thought to be the best of the Filipinos,
fell to Quist in less than an hour: 6-1,
6-2, 6-2. Bromwich lingered longer
against Ampon, but was never in danger
(8-6, 9-7, 6-3); and playing the same
opponents the Australian pair collected
the doubles: 7-5, 6-4,6-2. Canada has to
be beaten before the big stuff starts with
the match against the European winners.
So far, the cables have had nothing to
say of any footfaulting by Quist.
* * * *
Don Bradman, now a busy share-
broker in Adelaide (in the firm of Harry
Hodgetts, of the Board of Control), has
an heir at last. The previous child was
born just as Allen’s English XI arrived
in Australia, but lived only a few days.
Mrs. Bradman was a Menzies, of Moss
Vale.
* * * *
“Mat”: Another alteration in the leg-
before-wicket law is to be tried in grade
cricket in S. Australia and Victoria, and.
the N.S.W.C.A. is going to discuss it.
A couple of years ago the M.C.C.
amended the l.b.w. rule to allow um-
pires to “out” stodgy fellows who play
off-break balls with pads; the alteration
is a threat to those who use their pads
against leg-breaks. It should be wel-
comed particularly by O’Reilly, Fleet-
wood-Smith and others capable of turn-
ing the ball either way, and “the Hill”
will rejoice. But, strange as it seems,
O’Reilly objects, his word for the change
being “silly.”
* * # *
“Bumpk”: An animal-lover released
60 hares that were waiting to be dismem-
bered and destroyed by coursing hounds
at Benalla (Vic.). The beasts were to
have performed the gladiatorial act at a
local “carnival” —so called because there
was nothing watery about it—and accord-
ing to the club president the releasing of
them spoilt the “carnival” and cost the
town thousands. Indignant appeals were
made to the police to take action, but it
turns out that hares are classed as vermin,
and to keep vermin in captivity is an
offence, technically speaking. Animal-
welfare leaguers expressed themselves as
delighted by this blow struck for the
lower creation. But there are plenty of
hares in the world, and fresh ones were
ordered.
% * * *
“Bumpk”: The law’s delays are as
nothing compared with the speed of
action of the Victorian A.A.A. The
chaps controlling athletics have just de-
cided that the 1918-19 premiership shall
be declared a tie between St. Stephen’s
and Carlton. The dispute has raged in-
termittently for two decades, and it was
once suggested that the clubs should stage
a special contest to decide the burning
issue.
* * * *
A Mildura rifleman, Les Hethering-
ton, made what is claimed to be a world’s
record in a spoon shoot by notching 67
consecutive bull’s-eyes at 500 yards under
normal conditions.


e
47 George
Street,
Sydney.
Canadian Oudlalab ian
Jim
59 William
Street,
Melbourne.
w
A Digger Reconstructs
[There are still room and opportunity
for pioneering; and the pioneering
spirit still survives. Nor is it con-
fined to youth. The depression years
fell hard on young men who, leav-
ing school, could find no regular jobs
waiting for them. But they fell harder
still on those older men, many of them
Diggers, who, thrown suddenly out of
employment, could have no hope that
when things were bettered they would be
able to compete against the many thou-
sands of youngsters anxious for work.
For many it meant the necessity of recon-
structing their lives, making jobs for
themselves, if they were to exist without
surrendering to the idea of remaining
always on “the dole.”
One such, himself a Digger, writes
of the manner in which he and his Eng-
lish wife faced up to the need for re-
building. It is not a new story—there
must have been hundreds like him in
Australia who met the same circum-
stances just as courageously—but it
typifies the fighting spirit and the will to
succeed of all his kind. He cannot speak
too highly of the courage and resource
of that English wife. “Of good, upper-
class stock and a wealthy family, she
never saw Australia before the depres-
sion. To watch her making lemon-cheese
over an open fire in the rain, with an
umbrella held up, was a lesson in good
management.” Of himself: “I was never
muscular, but I had good schooling and
musical training as a choirboy—more
valuable than might appear. Originally
headed as a draughtsman, I was able to
scheme things.”]
WE are reconstructing. It is not
the first time, but on this occa-
sion we have both tangible and
intangible assets —a few pounds
and peace of mind.
The depression began it, but we
climbed out. In fact, we walked out.
Hiking parties were then the popular
craze, and we went unnoticed. We wore
canvas shoes; my wife had no hat; our
capital was about £3. We carried blan-
kets, tent, cooking gear, maps, and we
headed for a large bay, over 200 miles
from the city. We got a few lifts occa-
sionally, but we begged nothing. In due
time we reached our new address. For
five shillings a year we got a “miner’s
right,” and took two acres of Crown
land into occupation.
Then a long climb up the hill.
A few cornsacks were opened and
sewn together for the walls of a one-
room house, a few sheets of corrugated
iron bought for the roof, a dray was
hired and our effects moved in. We
picked a wild bit of virgin bush on the
bank of a stream one mile from the
town. Uncleared bush with all the tangle
of logs, trees, stumps, shrubs, fern and
thick growth.
The house was of bush poles. We cut
the trees, carried the poles down the
hillside, removed the bark, dug the holes
and built our house.
A hay mattress was made of green
grass and clean hessian. A fireplace was
made, with a camp oven. We had only
an earth floor, but we were happy. Our
furniture was a double bed, our large
travelling trunks, a table and chairs and
two good cane lounge chairs.
In time we managed to get a floor and
a fireplace for inside, a door—even win-
dows. Next came a second room for
bedroom, a verandah and so complete
comfort.
Our garden thrived. Fence posts, of
course, came out of the trees around us.
A barrow was built, a crosscut saw paid
for itself, and an axe was acquired.
Garden tools and carpentry equipment
also arrived. Cooking utensils, too. It’s
marvellous what you can do if you don’t
smoke, don’t drink, don’t go to the pic-
tures, don’t follow the races, have no
rent beyond ss. per annum, and don’t go
shopping at all.
For a start, till the land began to
bring something in, there were relief work
and odd jobs in the town. We learnt
early in the piece that we had to do with-
out the baker and, sometimes, the
butcher as well.
From somewhere we got two very old
hens and one young bantam rooster. We
improved on that beginning very soon.
We began to sell our eggs to regular cus-
tomers, and kept books of account for
the poultry. As we never had “house-
hold scraps” for our chooks we had to
feed methodically. It paid, for they
kept themselves in food, kept us in wheat
for bread-making, and left a margin for
emergencies.
In time vegetables brought in a steady
income, but the first year we grew abso-
lutely nothing as the land needed lime
and fertilisers. Water in the creek, down
a steep 40ft. bank, was permanent, and
a hand-pump was installed.
Before the bushfire season I went
round the hillsides and burnt back all
the dead undergrowth, so we were never
in danger.
We bought a sack of milling wheat
which I ground into flour for bread. With
our own yeast, it cost a little under
per pound. Our food bill was kept about
11 s. per week (for both of us). This in-
cluded soap, kerosene, etc. We had
home-made jams in a very wide range,
good meals and plenty of fancy cooking
We incurred no debts of any kind.
We borrowed from nobody. We had no
help, no advice, no neighbors, no critics
and no intruders. We had many in-
terests: birds, lizards —we used to feed
two of them on the verandah —and wal-
labies, parrots, cockatoos and lyrebirds
were common. We had no wireless, but
never needed it. Neither did we see any
picture shows, races, dances or social
evenings. had we relief work
nor the dole.
We’re leaving the place now. The
profit of our several years there is best
represented by health and peace of mind.
Life there has been one long holiday.
Now we are about to reconstruct once
more. I am starting on a line of work
with which I had experience in other
years, and, having now a little capital,
it is possible to move ahead. But we
are not moving to the city. We realise
now that sound health and a good night’s
sleep are the only things worth striving
for—and you can’t buy them.
“Ologist” objects:
One of the most misused words in the lan-
guage is “prototype.” In comments on an
assertion that Silly Symphonies have a bad
effect on the morals of children, a columnist
wrote this sentence: “The time to take steps
will be when animals begin acting like their
Disney prototypes.” “Disney prototypes”!
Some such word as “imitations,” “caricatures”
or “burlesques” should have been used.
A prototype is the original person or thing
of which some later person or thing is a copy,
an imitation or an improved form. The first
locomotive and the first aeroplane were the
prototypes of the modern marvels that run on
rails or speed through the air; many legendary
and historical figures and characters in litera-
ture are the prototypes of later-in-time to
present-day men and women who bore or bear
a more or less close resemblance to the originals
in virtues or vices, habits, looks, deeds and
so on.
Driven almost off her rocker by the
“diplomacy” of the scared and slippery
Georgian at MoscoW) « S . M. Herald”
.., , t ~
s^ar^ cor *tiadlcting herself again. One
day she pleaded that delay in arriving at
an alliance was only “momentary.” The
next brought a long lamentation to the
effect that the Moscow attitude had
« given r ; se to ques tions, first, whether
• ~ ’ f . d
Kussia now really wants a pact, ana,
second, whether Russia wants a pact but
is deliberately slowing down the negotia-
tions.” This after the Old Girl has had
to swa llow all the anti-Soviet articles
~,u . , , • ,
she had published since 1917 thousands
of ’em.


e
BRANDALIERS
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUKB * CO- Ltd, BIRUIHOHAM. KSO
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—If the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys. .
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get.rid or
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being filtered out, wastes and acids get bacK-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep ana
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up Ask your chemist for DOAN S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving miiUons
for many years. If backache is
you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN S BACn.
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
With so much polo in the air, this
Letter had thought that Letty was a
horse. But Letty turned out to be
Charlotte Greenwood. You could,
perhaps, call her a hoofer, because
she’s frolicsomely light on her feet.
“Leaning on Letty,” the new show
at the Roval, doesn’t only lean on
Letty (C.G.), it is built around her.
Letty is the backbone of one of
those American households that seem to
run on the ball bearings of wisecracks.
All the usual first-nighters were in their
places when the curtain rose. Many of
them had been at the Minerva opening
on Thursday night. Soon they’ll all be
banded in one big brotherhood. New
faces in the audience were supplied by
Violet Carlson (this little sparkler was
in poinsettia reds coated in ermine), by
Angel Katrin Rosselle, all in snowy
white, and by the Will Mahoneys. Her
brightly-striped taffetas were among the
night’s likeable. . - .
Margot Ruthven was exquisite in
powder-blue satins caped in squirrel. An-
other nice young thing was Mildred
Winter from Maoriland. She came with
aunt Mrs. E. Baume. Mrs. Eva Wunder-
lich was there with son Theo and his
wife. Pretty Mrs. Farley was also in this
group. Mrs. Sep Levy was in the stalls
and Mrs. Bertie Kelly in her usual place
in the front of the circle. Later on
everybody turned up again at the Aus-
tralia, Romano’s or Prince’s. The last-
named put on a polo floor show. Heard
the Ashtons have offered a tremendous
price for the pony.
Long live the Eiffel Tower, the Arc de
Triomphe, the poplar-lined roads of
France! If there is any virtue in the
toasts drunk to the glory of the Tricolor
last Friday in Sydney, then they are
immortal. Friday, a soft and sunny day,
set in the midst of arctic winds, was a
pleasant surrounding for the French
gaieties. Consul-General Tremoulet s
reception filled the consulate with mem-
bers of the French community and with
friends of France, among these Sir Hugh
Poynter, his French decoration proudly
worn. There were representatives of
other countries, there were French
bankers and wool buyers and men of
great substance, but no prouder son of
France than Phillipe Wibart, 87 years
young, who had fought in the Franco-
Prussian War, and wore his bronze medal
to prove it.
On Friday evening the fall of the
Bastille was still further celebrated by a
ball. This, as always, was in Hordern
Brothers’, and the Tricolor was the star
event in the decorations. Once again “The
Marseillaise” proved itself the most
spine-thrilling of national anthems. To
its strains the Consul-General entered the
ballroom. With him was Sir Hugh Poyn-
ter, the president of the French Alliance.
Alfred Wunderlich and daughter Mar-
garet headed one of the largest parties.
Margaret’s shimmer of satin was in mul-
berry tones. Mrs. Clementel’s black
velvets had an old-world look with their
short puffed sleeves. Mrs. Felix Faure’s
white romaine frock gained further grace
from a long shoulder scarf. Ginette
Scamps was one of the night’s pretty
girls. Mrs. Pierre Scamps’s satins had
a silver sheen.
Polo at Kyeemagh in the brilliant sun-
shine of last week made a scene that
George Lambert would have loved to
paint. Heavens, how the sun shone!
The grass was green, the Norfolk pines
bordering the field were still, resting after
their week-long tussle with the wind.
The ponies were as keen as their riders.
Lots of worse ways of spending an
afternoon than sitting on someone else’s
reserved bench watching the flashing
sweep of the players from end to end
of the ground. The match between Goul-
burn and Town and Country on Thurs-
day drew quite a gallery, and to every-
body’s surprise the Ashton brothers were
beaten, but nobody was surprised, know-
ing the Ashtons, at Jim’s hearty con-
gratulations to the winners. And wives
and sweethearts of all polo players should
take up first-aid. A fractured ankle and
a broken’ collarbone respectively were
collected in two days by Dr. Soiling and
E. Sodersteen.
Mrs. Soiling, who had gone out in
smart green tweeds, made sorrowful
journey back to town following hus-
band’s ambulance to St. Luke’s. Very
concentrated on the play was Mrs. Roy
Buckland, who had her usual just-out-
of-the-bandbox look; blue her color
scheme. Mrs. Wallace Horsley was brave
in yellow; Mrs. Ken Mackay, whose
husband was one of the Wirragulla
stalwarts, added an attractive beige
swagger coat to her tweeds. Mrs. Jim
Ashton, senior, was there ; so were the
Frank Braggs and Mrs. Curtis Skene.
With Mrs. James Ashton, junior, came
small daughters Rosemary and Joan.
Lieut.-Col. and Mrs. Coles Osborne (he’s
on furlough from India) were among the
interested.
Kyeemagh, on Saturday, had its larg-
est gallery. Woollies for warmth seemed
to be the foundation of the dressing.
Mrs. Julian McKay broke from this
scheme, though, and was suited in dark-
brown suede. Jocelyn and Shirley Poyn-
ter, Mrs. James Macleod, Mrs. Frank
Crane and Noreen Dangar were keen fol-
lowers of the play. Mrs. Hector Clay-
ton’s grey suit and trig black hat were
one of the smartest outfits. Joan Tyler's
topcoat wore large checks. To be noted
was the swagger coat of white shorn
lamb. It looked as though it came from
Australian pastures. And why not? Too
many of these emigre lamb coats about,
altogether.
The writing of War and the Woman,
into which she has packed experience
gained as a nurse ih the Gieat
War and in her years of service as
secretary and lecturer to the St. John
Ambulance Association, brought Sister
A B. Parry to the notice of the Govern-
ment. Now she is attached as supervisor
of classes, organiser and lecturer to the
Government’s National Emergency Ser-
vice. In November of last year Sister
Parry decided to resign from St. John
Association, and go for a long overseas
holiday, but when the call came she just
dashed into the fray again.
Sister’s duties start at two in the after-
noon and go on till ten in the evening.
In that time she will organise and super-
vise anything from four to six classes.
The other day she whirled from Enfield
to Parramatta, then on to Westmead,
Rydalmere and Eastwood. The classes
cover air raids, first aid and such war
preparedness. In some there are as many
as 200. These, classes are free, and
women from the teens to the seventies
attend with the greatest fervor. Sister
Parry was one of the Australian war
nurses who served in Egypt. After the
war she went off to the U.S.A. to do
post-graduate work, and being on the
spot in the ’flu epidemic she enrolled in
the American Red Cross, and was in a
company of nurses sent to Alaska.
She feels she’s equipped to face even
the chill of Nome whenever she wears
the set of silver fox given in farewell to
her by the St. John Auxiliary. Other
gifts from the association were a de luxe
set, complete with clock, in chromium
for her writing-table, and one of those
new fob watches —all filigree and sparkle.
Photograph from Montgomery Dunn.
It was a new idea, and the Rajolas had
it, to serve cocktails in the midst of the
Royal Art Society’s show. This was a
five-to-seven last Friday, and artists were
thick among the guests. The case of
delicate cameos that you see in the outer
gallery is Mr. Rajola’s exhibit. The
cameos are of the finest, and are carvea
by the artist without the aid of any sort
of magnifying glass. Wine cocktails of
every variety, savories, olives and those
button onions that look so innocent and
yet arouse a Sahara thirst were in full
cry from the stroke of five. The Rajolas
were the perfect host and hostess. The
Will Ashtons, of the Gallery, came ; so
did Frank Medworth, of the Technical
College. Mrs. Andrews wore one of the
smartest turnouts, London tan the shade,
Mrs. Hanke, Mrs. Langker and Mrs.
Albert Sherman, whose husband’s pic-
tured roses and peonies added a glow to
the afternoon, were in a group.
Joseph Wolinski bewailed the closing
of the Royal Art Society’s school of
painting. This had lasted for 60 years,
and Lambert and many contemporaries
had their first training among the easels
and the equipment that have been scat-
tered among the artists. Rubery
Bennett, the Howard Barrons and Lister
Lister were others who dipped a beak
into the good Australian wine. Dawn,
a pretty youngster whose face smiles
from one of the Trindall paintings, was
an advocate of lemonade.
This is a Peter Pan photograph of
Mrs. J. C. Windeyer, of Wahroonga. One
of last week’s successes was the Univer-
sity Medical Society’s ball, of which she
was president. Books and bursaries are
the objective of these yearly functions.
Ross Thomas, Director of Education,
is taking a keen interest in developing
the art side of the schoolboy and -girl.
He is a warm supporter of the idea of
morning lectures by well-known artists,
which will be given every morning for a.
week, starting from to-day. These will
be in the Education Galleries, and already
a good audience of schoolchildren is
assured.
Director Elma Paul Perdriau must
have been gratified by the way the
Greenwood Tree players breezed through
Dodie Smith’s “Call It a Day.’ This
filled the Mosman Town Hall last Satur-
day night. Catherine Hilton (Judy Osbis-
ton) was a real glamor girl in the pink
taffeta dress in which she had her por-
trait painted. Betty Rothwell’s Joan
Collett was a good thumbnail sketch ;
and June Adams’s Muriel Weston kept
the house crackling with laughter. All
in all it was a bright show.
Lying ill in Elsmore private hospital,
Evans-road, Waverley, is “Vandorian, a
former writer of the Woman’s Letter.
“Vandorian’s” family name is Cox-
Taylor, and her brother, Col. Cox-Taylor,
was for many years stationed at Vic-
toria Barracks.
Don’t forget the Tulip Ball on the
Nieuw Zeeland this Saturday night. This
is to aid the Kenny Clinic Hostel, and
the steamer will be berthed at Dalgety s
wharf. The Royal Packet Navigation
Co. lends the ship for the good cause.
The only bottle not featured on the
tables at the Medical Society’s dance was
the medicine bottle. This, however, re-
ceived recognition when cardboard
models of it, with songs printed thereon,
were handed round. Trick cyclists put
a curl into the eleventh hour, and the
music was more bright than blue. Doc-
tors’ wives, minus husbands, were dotted
about the room, the hardest case being
that of the woman whose husband was
putting the last stud in his evening shirt
when he was snatched back to duty. This
was one of the friendliest dances of the
season, and David Jones s ballroom was
filled with bright groups around beauti-
fully decorated tables. Mrs. Garnet Hal-
loran was responsible for flower sym-
phony on the official board.
The decorations started at the steps
leading to the dance floor. Red posies
tied on the chromium rails were inviting.
All the decor was in red and white, the
society’s colors. Above the orchestra
burned the crest —vivid red waratah, over
which the usual B.M.A. serpent reared in
friendly fashion. The official table was
strewn with red poinsettia and carnations
and silver flax leaves. Tall red candles
in squat crystal holders dominated each
end. A tiny fan of red gauze, its centre
a white camellia, marked the place of
each woman guest. On Mrs. Berge’s table
a silver stork brooded over a nest with
five baby dolls in it. A doctor’s bag all
ready for the baby to be popped into was
near by. This was a silver bag, its
handles woven of flowers. There were
chimes at midnight.
The dressing was of the rarest, and
featured long pastel-tinted gloves, crino-
lines and even mittens. The young
women doctors know how to dress some-
thing besides a wound. Dr. Freda
Roach’s primrose taffeta was in crinoline
style. Her long gloves were pale blue
to match the pleated ruffle showing be-
neath the hem of the dress. An old-
fashioned chain and locket was another
touch of the ’eighties. Mrs. J. C. Win-
deyer was president of the ball, and with
her professor received the guests.
Mauves and pinks and blues rioted on
the hostess’s satin frock. Her ermine
cape and pearls were a nice partnership.
Dr. Dora McMahon’s blue and silver
lame and sister Dorothy’s white Chan-
tilly were among the night’s admired.
Beatrice McGirr’s black nets had trapped
splashes of sunlight. Her wrap was silver
fox. Mrs. K. B. Noad and Mrs. W.
Hotton shared the job of secretary, and
did it well. Mrs. Coen’s cyclamen chiffons
were graceful. Mrs. Hugh Poate’s color
was turquoise. The twins Patricia and
Joan Gibson were attractive in white
marquisette. Mrs. Ben Edye brought
daughter Stephanie, whose crinoline was
rose taffeta.
David Smyth has sold his house, No. 8
March-street, and is already busy prepar-
ing to return to England. The house
was left to him by the late Lord Beau-
champ, to whom David for several years
had been secretary. Towards the end,
and particularly during his last illness,
when David and Lady Dorothy Lygon
were in constant attendance, Earl Beau-
champ came to look upon him as one
of his own family. He will go by flying-
boat to Singapore. The marvellous sports
car that has been the envy of every car-
owner on the hill precedes David to
England. Some of the dogs go, too. A
cocktail party on Thursday will be the
farewell bit of hospitality on the part
of the present owner.
Letters from Mrs. Keith Morris tell of
a 2623-mile motor tour of England, Wales
and Scotland. In Forfar Captain Morris
called on Major-General McLaghlan,
who commanded an Australian division
during the war. They also visited the
depot of the Captain’s old regiment—the
Border —at the castle of Carlisle. It was
here Mary of Scots was imprisoned, and
it was from this fortress she made her
escape. The mess still treasures the table
which served as the altar in her oratory.
It is just a hand-hewn, solid block of
wood on two solid legs, held together
by wooden pegs.
Mrs. Morris had a close-up of the
Duchess of Kent at the Royal Empire
Society’s dinner at Grosvenor House;
and again one night when she happened
to walk down the steps of a theatre at
the same time. It is said in London
that the Duchess intends to make her
Australian regime the success of her life.
France, Belgium, Switzerland, Holland
are some of the countries the travellers
have visited. The Empress of Britain
will take them to Canada. New York,
the World’s Fair, San Francisco are in-
tended gaieties.


Personal and Missing Friends.
ELIZABETH RUSSELL, wife of Matthew
Russell, daughter of Timothy and Elizabeth
Dwyer, and sister of the late John Dwyer,
please communicate with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 934 of 1939.
BETWEEN MARY DUNBAR Petitioner
And JOHN CECIL BATES DUNBAR
Respondent.
TO JOHN CECIL BATES DUNBAR.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
DUNBAR has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-ninth day of
September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of July, a.d. 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
H. E. McINTOSH & ADRIAN, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 829 of 1939.
BETWEEN CLARENCE BIRT FORRESTER
Petitioner
And VERA PHYLLIS FORRESTER Re-
spondent
And DAVID ERIC SMITH Co-respondent.
TO DAVID ERIC SMITH late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CLARENCE
BIRT FORRESTER has commenced a suit
against the said VERA PHYLLIS FORRESTER
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the ground of
your adultery with the abovenamed Vera
Phyllis Forrester AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Twenty-ninth day
of September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not doing
so within the limited time or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this fifth day of July, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1038 of 1939.
BETWEEN ELLEN SELLICK KELLY Peti-
tioner
And REGINALD KELLY Respondent.
TO REGINALD KELLY late of Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELLEN SEL-
LICK KELLY has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and has applied for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Twenty-sixth day of September
next and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. Copy of the petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned free
of charge.
DATED this 29th day of June, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, Assembly
Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction,
ino. 1080 of 1939.
BETWEEN FRANCIS THOMAS HOSKIN
Petitioner
And MARGARET JANET HOSKIN
(formerly Margaret Janet Austin Spinster)
Respondent.
TO MARGARET JANET HOSKIN late of
Punchbowl in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said FRANCIS
THOMAS HOSKIN has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Sixth day
of October One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the Petition filed
herein may be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twelfth day of July, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
RALPH TAYLOR, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, Tenterfield, N.S.W.; by his Agents,
Turner, Nolan & Co., 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce.)
TO ALBERT EDWARD CHARLES READER
formerly of Hobart in Tasmania Laborer.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife KATHLEEN
ROBOTHAM READER has filed a Petition
for divorce against you on the ground of de-
sertion. If you wish to defend the matter you
must enter an appearance at the Supreme Court
Hobart within thirty days of this date.
(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
Melbourne
Chatter
The city of Melbourne came through
its musical inundation with amazing suc-
cess. In eight nights there were seven
major concerts in the Town Hall, given
alternately by Marjorie Lawrence and
Schnabel. Each concert attracted an ex-
cellent house of well over 2000 people,
with an overflow upon the stage. Each
night it was cold, and it was something
of an effort to leave warm fires at home.
Then came the Vienna Mozart Boys’
Choir only a day behind Schnabel’s last
concert. The end of the week also pro-
vided the first of Marjorie Lawrence’s
extra matinees. Her Friday-afternoon
house was something to remember, for
there couldn’t have been more than a
dozen vacant chairs in the Town Hall
when the singer swept on to the plat-
form in her gown of black flat crepe, its
wrist-length sleeves and wide frontal
panel glistening like a coat of mail with
golden sequins.
The audience represented all suburbs
and all walks of life. Miss Lawrence has
certainly made a hit in all circles of the
community. One woman in a prominent
position in the front row of the seats
upon the stage knitted right through the
programme ; the more excited she got
the faster she went. She only stopped
when Alfredo Luizzi sang “Drink to Me
Only With Thine Eyes,” but that was
because her wool had run out.
Melbourne is enjoying a boom in ice-
skating, augmented by the successful
season of “Switzerland,” the ice show
at His Majesty’s. Every morning “Switzer-
land’s” boys and girls can be seen prac-
tising at the Glaciarium, accompanied
very often by the amateur champion of
the world, Megan Taylor. When these
glittering stars shoot out upon the ice
the local talent by common consent takes
the rails and watches how it’s done. The
St. Moritz ice rink, which only opened
this year, is another incentive to the art
of skating and to what is claimed to be
the fastest game in the world, ice hockey.
The Glaciarium Rangers and the St.
Moritz Bombers have their spectator
fans, who seldom miss a match and who
are learning to barrack as strenuously as
the followers of League football.
Shirley Gauld, well known on the ice
before she went abroad nine months ago,
returned last week with yet another prize,
the London Bronze Medal, for dancing
on skates. Shirley says that ice-skating
and ice-hockey are both popular in Eng-
land, and that a few venturesome women
have formed ice-hockey teams. When
playing they wear shorts, long stockings
and kneepads.
Mrs. Anthony Barne got the skating
bug badly during her visit to her parents,
the P. C. Holmes Hunt couple. Mrs.
Barne, who is now on her way to Edin-
burgh to join her husband, Captain
Barne, of the Royal Dragoons, was guest
of honor at Mrs. Dudley Trenchard’s
morning-tea party down at the Glaci-
arium. While “The Women” co. was in
Melbourne for a short return season on
its way to Adelaide, Barbara Smith had
a daily appointment upon the ice. She
has only just taken up skating, but the
sooner she is back in a town with an ice-
rink the happier she’ll be.
A hitherto untried experience for Mel-
bourne was a “Come and be modernised”
musical party, news of which upset
Schnabel so much that he burst into
print. His sense of humor was not up
to the idea of anyone deliberately laugh-
ing at music, even the type that wasn’t
written to be appreciated in this genera-
tion. Invitations to the party, which was
held at Mrs. H. E. Spry’s home in Hey-
ington-place, were upon black cards
printed in white lettering. They looked
like passports to Father Divine’s newest
heaven, and they contained requests that
no missiles should be thrown at the per-
formers.
At this party nobody was expected to
be polite and listen to the music if he
or she didn’t want to. Talking and
laughter were encouraged during the per-
formance, and afterwards groans instead
of clapping were part of the picture and
the expectations of the artists. Those
participating have a theory that the most
radical of the modern composers can
only be assimilated without any repres-
sions imposed by politeness. They
also believe that a sense of humor is a
help. All the composers had unpro-
nounceable names, so their nationality
only was announced before the com-
mencement of each item. Some of these
composers seem to be surrealists of
sound. They like a lot of noise, and they
don’t worry about “shape” or theme.
All their compositions are very difficult
to play, and Mrs. Spry and Ada Free-
man must have worked hard at prepar-
ing their interpretation of a four-handed
arrangement which sounded like some-
one’s troubled dream. A deviation be-
fore supper was an invitation for brief
criticisms from everybody, consisting of
one adjective only and given without
duplication at lightning speed. Dr.
Floyd, Lorna Stirling, Harold Elvins and
Basil Hart were among those who offered
a few words to the assemblage. They,
like everybody else, voted the party an
exceptional success.
Schnabel, for some reason not
divulged, does not play “God Save the
King” at his concerts. At several con-
certs there was no anthem at all, but for
the last two of the season the organist
came to the rescue, climbing up into the
loft and bringing the mighty organ into
action. Dressing upon the last night for
both the hatted and the evening-gowned
presented such a sober, low-toned picture
that coats in varying shades of red were
particularly welcome to the roving eye.
Sue Dennett’s, of geranium taffeta, was
snugly quilted for warmth.
Mrs. Pat Cahill and Jessie Brookes
both chose long cloaks of deep-red
velvet. Bunty Schofield, who, like
several other Conservatorium people
present, brought her Beethoven score
with her, was wrapped in a coat
of dregs-of-wine boucle into which
gold threads were mingled. Jim Fairbairn
was there as guest of A.B.C. officials. Mrs.
Sydney Dalrymple, also a gues.t, wore
a honey-colored velvet coat. Madame
Schnabel is not out of countenance
through the Australian winter. She sat
without a wrap over her midnight-blue
gown, which shimmered with sequins
upon the shoulders and the elbow-length
sleeves.
In the Broothorn portrait is Gwen
Terry, younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Eric Terry, of South Camberwell, who
recently became engaged to Rohan
Deakin Rivett. Gwen, who was at Mel-
bourne Girls’ Grammar School, is now
doing second-year arts at the University.
Her fiance, who is the elder son of
David Rivett and his lady, inherits the
family brains. He’s an old boy of
Wesley, earned an arts degree at Mel-
bourne University, and is now at Balliol
College, Oxford, pursuing a course in
Modern Greats which covers a wide field
in history, economics and philosophy.
The warmest folk in Melbourne on
Saturday night were the bra’ Scottish who
danced the dances of their country down
in the South Melbourne Town Hall.
They came at the invitation of the chief
of the Gaelic Society of Victoria and
Mrs. Moffatt-Pender, a couple who are
well known for their Scottish enthu-
siasms. The South Melbourne Town
Hall, a building of which the mother city
of Melbourne would be proud, proved a
fortunate choice for a gathering of 400
strong. The Highland social evening
commenced at 6 p.m., and “Auld Lang
Syne” and “God Save the King” were
played about 10.30, so that members of
the Gaelic Society of Ballarat and the
Highland Dancing Circle of Macedon
could set out for their own banks and
braes while the night was still young.
Upon the programme of dances were
several “Dashing White Sergeants,” barn-
dances, sixteensomes and waltzes as they
used to do them. The dancers had that
sparkle in the eye that a Scotsman gets
when he sniffs heather in the breeze.
They enjoyed themselves enormously,
and although several generations were
represented on the wide expanse of floor
no one seemed to be unduly out of breath.
At a cursory glance it seems that Scottish
dancing must be good for figures ; small
w *Ms seemed to predominate among
both men and women. Four experts
danced “Na Gillean,” a reel o’ Tulloch, a
Gaelic choir sang Gaelic songs and Cap-
tain Moffatt-Pender and Judy Webb
danced Sean Truibhas (“Miss Sheila
Cameron’s Fancy”). No haggis appeared
with the buffet supper; none could be
procured large enough for the 400.
At the 14th July Alliance Fran9aise
Ball the Farandole was danced, but so
was the Big Apple, for the citizens of the
Republic like something modern and rol-
licking as well as traditional upon their
bill of fare. G. A. Watson, who was
treasurer of the committee, arrived at the
Lower Town Hall bright and early to do
some work upon a stepladder, draping
flags around the walls. One flag of which
the Alliance citizens are particularly proud
is a large banner whicf\* stretched right
across the street during the visit to Mel-
bourne of the King and Queen, then
Duke and Duchess of York.
All preparations for the dance were
completed by the time the first guests
arrived, and Mr. Watson was at hand to
present a tricolor of blue, white and red
flowers to Madame Puaux (wife of the
Consul for France), who also received a
bouquet from Madame Gay. Madame
Puaux, who is vivacious and the possessor
of a pair of sparkling brown eyes, wore
black chiffon appliqued around the hem
with blue velvet flowers. President of
the Alliance, M. Rene Vandekelen, did
the honors, unfortunately without the
support of his wife, who was absent
through illness. Other guests present in-
cluded the Consul for China, Mr. Tsao
(his wife was also ill and unable to be
present), the American Consul and Mrs.
Foote, Monsieur and Madame Perronne,
M. La Roache, Harold Perry and Pro-
fessor and Mrs. Chisholm.
In Athol Shmith’s photograph is
Shirley Carroll, who is one of the ticket
secretaries for the dance at the Embassy
next Friday night in aid of the Deaf and
Dumb Society. Mrs. Harvey Ansell is
also a secretary, and Mrs. Max Moffatt
is organiser. Shirley will go to Sydney
in a few days’ time to spend a short
holiday with her uncle and aunt, the
J. I. Carrolls, of Wentworth-road,
Vaucluse.
The young members of the Vienna
Mozart Boys’ Choir are permitted to be
little individualists with no sign upon
them of an unimaginative discipline. They
don’t march on to the stage like soldiers,
they just arrive and sort themselves out
in their prearranged places. It doesn’t
seem to be an unpardonable offence for
an occasional whisper to be exchanged
between songs, and merry smiles are often
handed around, especially in the second
and brighter part of the programme. For
the first part the lads wear suits of sap-
phire-blue velvet with knee breeches and
white stockings. After their mime or
costume excerpt, they change into khaki
slacks and white shirts. Their Town Hall
audiences are appreciative, but the fresh
and youthful artistry of these boys and
the work of their conductor would be
more enjoyable in a smaller and more
intimate setting.
Felicitations as well as welcome-home
greetings are being offered to Dr. Yrsa
Osborne, who became engaged to Dr.
Clive Hamilton Fitts a few days after her
return to Melbourne as ship’s surgeon
of the Taronga. Dr. Osborne was abroad
15 months, spending most of her time in
England, Italy and Switzerland. She’s
somewhat dazzling upon skis, and has
delighted the kindred snow-minded frater-
nity of Victoria with her opinion that the
snow slopes of Mt. Hotham are superior
to those of Swizerland, the longer day-
light and the less changeable weather of
the Australian snowfields being an im-
portant factor in their favor. Dr. Yrsa,
who is the second daughter of Professor
W. A. Osborne and Dr. Ethel Osborne,
took her medical course at Melbourne
University, and was a resident at Royal
Melbourne Hospital before she went
overseas for post-graduate study.


HOTFT
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Only one minute from G.P.O. and four from
Wynyard Square Railway Station. Every com-
fort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from D/~
Room and Breakfast, from .. • • '/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Graneentral,” Sydney.
MELBOURNE
Twice. Daihj - 2 / 5~ 0
The Empire’s Most Famous Jester,
GEORGE ROBEY,
and His Big New Company of Variety.
“HIGHEIGHTS FROM HOLLYWOOD.
ANNA MAY WONG,
the Famous Stage and Screen Star,
and Big New Company Stars.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Leaning on Letty ”
“Leaning on Letty,” at Sydney Royal,
opens sorrowfully. Then, slowly, the play
begins to crackle —it is Charlotte Green-
wood wisecrackling. Every time any
of the characters makes a remark there’s
an almost unbearable suspense ; then the
quiet, sardonic comment lights a fuse
of chuckling that runs through the
theatre. You realise that Charlotte
doesn’t depend on her height for her
humor; that she’s a natural comedian
and a topliner; and that she has a way
all of her own of putting over a wise-
crack.
And it’s not only Charlotte who is
sparking. Henpecked George, harried
upstairs and downstairs and all round the
house because the radio that won’t go is
always in Charlotte’s way, has developed
a little scream when tried too far that is
as effective as it is surprising. He has
confessed that once on a visit to England
he put in a few days at Dartmoor, be-
cause he lost his temper and hit some-
body. He is hoping—and the audience
with him —to lose it again one day: and
when he does, stumping the house in fury
after he has told a Mothers’ Guild meet-
ing what he thinks of them, it’s a moment
of delight. It is George, too, who delivers
the most priceless wisecrack of the whole
night—the just-not-printable one that
jumps out when Letty, having informally
adopted a kidnapped baby, reproaches
George and his wife with their childless-
ness.
And it’s not only Letty and George
who make the sparks fly. George’s wife,
simply by remaining as prim and gloomy
as she was in the beginning, is as funny
as the others, reaching her peaks in regis-
tering outrage or dudgeon when Letty is
too coarse or too commanding for her
taste. She and George are unpaying
guests in Letty’s boarding-house, and all
three are finding the position awkward:
when Letty orders George to take his
radio upstairs and tinker with it there,
the wifely “I am sure that any room
where my husband is in the way is no
place for me either” is superb. She’s
perpetually at the point of packing her
bags and leaving the house for ever.
And it’s not only Letty and George
and May who make this absurd melo-
drama about babies, kidnappers and
small-town gossip a grin from start to
finish. The point of the parson bleatina
about the place becomes shiningly clear
when Letty, pretending to the police that
the kidnapped baby is her own, claims
the rev. gent, as the father. There is a
washerwoman, snooping for gossip, who
snoops most wonderfully, and all of the
kidnapping gang are good.
With the aid of a crying doll, the gang
tricks Letty into thinking that the kid-
napped child has been born in the board-
ing-house ; it is supposed to be the illegi-
timate child of a girl whose father must
never learn of its existence. Letty decides
to adopt the waif, and scandalises the
neighborhood by saying she and the par-
son are the parents; then Letty learns
that the baby had been kidnapped, and
foils the kidnappers. That’s the story,
but what’s more important than the plot
is that Charlotte, Russell Fillmore
(George), Isabelle Withers (wife), Beat-
rice Esmond (washerwoman) and
Romaine Callender (parson) are all fine
character actors and fine comedians.
The play is short, and Charlotte plays
out time with a couple of songs—and
makes them, good as the play was, the
best part of the evening. Having shown
that she can act, she now shows she can
clown —and she knows the fooling busi-
ness so well that she had the house in
hysterics on the opening night. While the
Royal leans on Letty she won’t let it
down.
“Good Morning, Bill ”
In a way it’s “Good night, Bill,” for
there were optimists who thought Syd-
ney Minerva might soar to Shakspeare ;
and P. G. Wodehouse, though Oxford
has honored him with a D.Litt., isn’t
quite the same thing. “Idiot’s Delight”
was a good start, but there was nothing
to “Flossie Fewclothes,” and the new
one’s as light as a bill can be. Frank
Harvey, who produced it, dropped a hint
that solider things are coming.
As lightweights go, however, Wode-
house D. Litt. packs as neat a punch
“Watch the little dicky bird”
as any of them; he doesn’t often land
a knockout —present commentator came
nearest to taking the count when Barrett
Lennard dropped in to return an um-
brella he’d borrowed ten years previously
—but all the sparring is bright. Lennard
was the famous Wodehouse Ass, and did
the job so excellently that every time he
brayed his cheerful “Honky-tonk! and
trotted off for a thistle backstage the
best of the play went with him. Any-
one addicted to Wodehouse looks for the
Ass, so that Lennard’s responsibilities
weren’t light. He bore them with such
fitting resignation never overacting
that he brought to life all the magnificent
Donks. that graze in Wodehouse’s novels.
The rest of the cast managed to extract
plenty of nourishment from the pastures
Lennard had nibbled. Frank Bradley,
as Bill’s “aged relative,” suffering fronl
golf, sank every putt, excelling in cross-
talk with Henry Mollison’s competent
version of his nephew. Wodehouse’s
lunatic conversations, where the parties
reduce each other to stupefaction with
a bombardment of “Whats?”, are de-
vastating on the stage. Joy Howarth was
a Bad Blonde, smashing teacups and
conventions with equal gusto, and Lina
Basquette, as a female doctor, satisfac-
torily held Bill at thermometer’s-length.
Wodehouse’s people, apart, perhaps,
from the Ass, don’t really exist, and the
whole company did splendid work in
breathing so much life into his puppets.
The plot is of the flimsiest. Bill is
tired of living with Blonde; Blonde
smashes the crockery, and the two
doctors called in are Dr. Sally Smith and
Bill’s uncle, who is grabbed by chance
on his way to golf. Bill falls in love
with doctor, and goes to the country
with Unc. to pine for her. Unc. thinks
he’s pining for Blonde and telephones
her to come down ; Bill telephones for
his doctor to come down. They straighten
it out over the week-end; Unc. buys
the Blonde off, and the Blonde carries
the Ass off.
Something was missing from the last
act. Unc. and Blonde were due for a
row, and the umbrella, which the Ass
hated because it always landed him into
matrimony, wasn’t given the final flourish
the case demanded. It was a tame finish,
but the preceding comedy had atoned
for it in advance.
Szell in Sydney.
A musical event of last week was a
first performance in Sydney of a sym-
phony by an English composer, William
Walton, hitherto known only as a writer
of clever incidental music for stage and
cinema.
Conductor Georg Szell sponsors Wal-
ton’s symphonic outpouring —he con-
siders the music “distinguished”—so it
may be accepted that the work, at
a first hearing seems a nightmarish jumble
of moans and bellows interspersed with
fanfares of trumpets and cackles of
laughter, has some logical thematic de-
sign. Possibly it is destined to be a first
favorite with popular audiences in
coming years, when innumerable per-
formances have signposted all its
luscious titbits, but this writer is pre-
pared to take a shade of odds that unless
Mr. Szell insists on it it will never be
heard again in Australia.
Rest of the A.B.C. orchestra’s pro-
gramme at Sydney Town Hall on the
night of the Walton debut was Grieg’s
Pianoforte Concerto, with Sydney pianist
Lawrence Godfrey Smith as soloist. The
Grieg idiom is familiar and distinctive ;
pianist and band were in happy mood,
and the audience didn’t have to simulate
its appreciation. The sparkling “Carnaval
romain” of Berlioz brought the pro-
ceedings to a close.
On Thursday night the Szell pro-
gramme was made up of works by
Dvorak and Dvorak’s patron Smetana.
These melodious Bohemians (Czechs in
the modern fashion) were represented by
the well-knoWn “Bartered Bride” over-
ture of Smetana, the Violoncello Concerto
and “Carnival” overture of Dvorak, and
the less-familiar “symphonic poem”
“Vltava” of Smetana.
The Smetana works were happily pre-
sented, both the light-opera “Bride” and
the more seriously devised symphonic
piece, which also has many merry pas-
sages. Dvorak, another sort of horse,
wasn’t so lucky. Edmund Kurtz, the
concerto soloist, introduced the ’cello’s
voice as indifferently as a man chopping
sticks, and never really sang till, as it
seemed, the composer overpowered the
reluctance of the executant. The orches-
tral background also seemed to lack sym-
pathy. The “Carnival” overture, Dvorak
in his lightest vein, was dashed through
very effectively, but more has been made
of it on other occasions.
Melbourne's Music Marathon.
The marathon of musicians still pro-
ceeds at Melbourne Town Hall.
Schnabel snared splendid audiences for
his two final laps at the beginning of
last week. They were the most perfectly
disciplined audiences that have ever
assembled at the Town Hall. How the
austere little man succeeds in so com-
pletely capturing his listeners’ pysches
it is difficult to say. He is such an un-
pretentious performer that when he walks
on to the stage he could easily be taken
for the attendant who lifts the piano
cover.
But he has let it be known that he
doesn’t give encores; and he gets no
demands for encores. He has also let
it be known that he doesn’t care a
button for applause, and he now gets
so little of it that it could easily be
imagined that his audiences disapproved
of him if it were not for the fact that
he is listened to with such concentration
that his pauses between the movements
of a sonata are the signal for such an
extraordinary uproar of coughs, sneezes
and nose-blowing that it is a marvel
half a dozen suppressed music-lovers
don’t burst while he is playing; but
dead silence falls again the moment he
puts his fingers back on the keyboard.
Good-bye to all that —he has departed
after playing most of the giants of classi-
cal sonata literature. .
The Vienna Mozart Boys’ Choir has
succeeded with an entirely different kind
of show, 20 birdlike or flutelike voices


w
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postagt Stamp Merchants,
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
...v.y.X-vi^
:■: .■Ww^x^wx*;-.:««»;■.•.•.vtof.'vXJJßfctf • ww.
.<>*.# • S .C / .• *
j
ifevf
] /;
m
i
ini
¥:SSxS
m
m
rsgrv
3
- :
*S
e
The load compartment in Ford V-8 Utilities
it of special t celded steel construction integral
with the body for greater strength, longer life.
Tonneau cover standard equipment on straight-
side model only and choice of body colours
and interior colour ensembles is available.
A Great Stylist
A Great Worker
V-8 PASSENGER-CAR STYLE & COMFORT
PiUS LOAD CAPACITY OF LIGHT TRUCK
For work or play, Ford V-8, the ideal dual
purpose unit, offers more real value for the
money. Riding comfort and appointments
are the equal of a closed model passenger car
and include such features as: All-Steel pas-
senger compartment with safety glass all
round. New hydraulic “Quick-stop” brakes.
Four hydraulic double-acting shock absorbers.
New “Triple-cushioned” riding comfort. Ex-
clusive radio available at slight extra cost.
See your district Ford Dealer. Coupe Utility prices,
from £326. Standard Utilities from £314. (Prices
F. 0.8. Ford Plant, plus Sales Tax.)
1939
FORD MOTOR
FORD V 8 COUPS UTILITIES
BUY FROM YOUR LOCAL ToRD DEALER
PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
F73.27L
(one, incidentally, a new recruit from
Maoriland). Under Dr. Georg Gruber’s
sensitive conducting they manipulate old
English and old European folksongs and
ballads with a delicacy of accent and a
purity of tone which leave most adult
choirs far behind. But they lack some-
thing most adult singers have. There
is a strange inhuman perfection in their
singing which gives the impression that
there is no meaning in the songs except
the sound. Consequently, when they
sing some item which has been sur-
rounded with strong emotional associa-
tions by some celebrated singer of adult
years it sounds as if it came from an-
other world. On their opening evening
they sang a famous lullaby and it
sounded beautiful: but it did not sug-
gest mothers and babies at all.
They are marvellous part-singers, and
three or four of them are able to sing
solo admirably as well. Dressed in blue
coats and lace collars, and alternatively
in soft shirts and slacks, they stand like
expressionless automata and move like
tin soldiers, but come alive in song. On
Wednesday they dressed up and acted
a comedy operetta by Gluck passing well,
but they are most impressive when they
convey the ecclesiastical atmosphere in
which the great school from which they
come originated.
Curtain!
The closing down of “Yes, My Dar-
ling Daughter” at Melbourne King’s
and the disbanding of the imported com-
pany after a week’s run constitute a
new short-distance record in Australian
theatrical history.
The ill-health of leading-lady Pauline
Lord can be accepted as a fact, without
being granted as sufficient reason for the
withdrawal of the play. There are plenty
of local actresses who could have stepped
into her shoes. But only a confirmed
optimist would have imagined that the
play would have been a draw with a five-
times-better cast.
To be digested by a Melbourne audi-
ence, the sexual theme has to be treated
roughly, as in “The Women,” or suavely
and romantically, as in the ancient
lamented “Du Barry,” both of which en-
joyed long leases of life at the same play-
house which saw the sudden collapse of
“Yes, My Darling Daughter.” Treated
quasi-realistically, as it was in the last-
named, it did not even shock the audi-
ence —it merely bored them, like a bad
photograph.
Since the talkies destroyed their com-
placency, the entrepreneurs of legit, seem
to be pastmasters at backing the wrong
horse.
Ice Show Packs ’Em In,
The skaters and skaterinas still occupy
the ice at Melbourne His Majesty’s, and
if the entrepreneurs who minister to
JVfelbourne’s craving for legit, have made
a few mistakes elsewhere lately they
have made no mistake in this case, for
the playhouse is packed from floor to
ceiling nightly.
One of the things that contribute to
the enchantment of the icy ballets is the
dead silence of the dancers, which con-
trasts oddly with the noise that was made
by the Russian Ballet. The result is that
nothing comes between the marriage of
movement and music ; and the orchestral
part of the proceedings is of a high order.
Phil Taylor, the male star, combines
unusual grace of movement with amaz-
ing acrobatics. After flying like a bird
over half a dozen barrels he lands on
the few feet of ice remaining with his
poise unshaken. And some of the young
ladies are not far behind him. If dates
did not clash the address of Switzerland
would be Exhibition-street for a tew
months longer, judging by the public
interest.
An Amazing Success.
In view of the fact that she descended
on Melbourne in the middle of the most
prolonged tornado of music on local
record, the success of Marjorie Lawrence
continues to be amazing.
Packed houses have heard her evening
performances without affecting the
matinee attendances.
The Dean’s Marsh girl’s singing has
been remarkable in almost all depart-
ments, but most outstanding in grand
opera. At her final farewell at the
Princess Theatre to-night (Wednesday)
she is to appear in her most passionate
role as Salome in Strauss’s opera.
“Dramatic School”
Luise Rainer.
It’s a high compliment to a grand
little actress that this Sydney State offer-
ing can be rated a.n entertaining film.
For there is little enough to it, bar the
Rainer. Its rather cheap little human
problems and complexities are emphasised
out of proportion to their worth, and
its main statement —that to become a
great actress a girl must be fired by burn-
ing artistic zeal, and must personally
suffer somewhat in order to be able to
give real expression to emotions—is, after
all, a bit threadbare.
There is other overemphasis in the
piece, too, from which even the Rainer
doesn’t escape. She is a girl working by
night in a gas-meter factory and attend-
ing a dramatic school by day. What she
has to put up with at the school —from
a teacher and from other students—is
overdone. One elaborate scene, in which
she is invited to a party in order to be
confronted by a man about whom she
has been romanticising, is quite in-
credible. Incredible, also, the sudden
changes wrought in a number of sup-
porting characters. A girl who has been
maliciously persecuting her suddenly
turns and falls on her neck. The teacher
who has persecuted her and is going to
move for her expulsion from the school
changes overnight and recommends her
for the part of Joan of Arc. Other
characters similarly change in the most
miraculous fashion. Only Miss Rainer —
among the women, anyway remains
steadfast. Even she somewhat over-
emphasises the poor-put-upon-girl aspect
of her part. Her naturally plaintive
voice becomes a piteous wailing, and
a motherless mopoke has nothing on her
looks of misery.
The story has some good points, but
generally is thin. The factory-girl does
attract the attention of the man about
whom she has been romanticising and
by him is given a posh apartment. But
he’s a fly-by-night lover; soon tires of
the arrangement which has marriage
ahead ; and leaves her for a sprightlier
sprig of the cabarets. Through these
ups and downs she carries on at the
dramatic academy, and when she at last
succeeds as Joan the temporary lover
returns with ideas of carrying on again
from where they had left off. She,
however, prefers to sit on a bench
opposite the theatre and look at her
name written up in light globes.
That conclusion and other parts of
the story represent departure from the
hackneyed, but the narrative generally
is on the weak side. Certainly there is
nothing in it worthy of Miss Rainer’s
talent, but what there is she makes the
most of.
The film is from a Continental play,
and present scribe will bet his campfire
to a block of ice that Hollywood has
badly bowdlerised it.
“The Lady*s from Kentucky ”
Ellen Drew, George Raft .
Just as “S. M. Herald” suffers from
crises or children from measles, Holly-
wood, too, catches its complaints. Hav-
ing recovered from a bad attack of Nazi
spies, it now seems to be suffering with
Kentucky.
According to two films which have
just passed, another at Sydney Capitol
and this main current offering at Sydney
Prince Edward, Kentucky is populated
by a broken-down gentry which, though
it manages to own strings of neddies and
run luxurious limousines, is being
tragically ousted from the land of its
fathers by a commercial generation low
enough not to live for the horse, the
whole horse and nothing but the horse.
Miss Drew figures as the last of a
long line of Kentuckians and Mr. Raft
as an inveterate gambler who, by some
Hollywooden artifice, gains part owner-
ship of one of her best horses. It takes
approximately one hour and a quarter
for Mr. Raft to learn that nothing mat-
ters more than the horse, except, of
course, Miss Drew.
Film is a somewhat incredible but quite
harmless stretch of fiction, with Raft in
a role he could play in his sleep, while
Miss Drew displays a certain amount
of histrionic ability and photographs
with almost living naturalness.
“Broadway Serenade ”
Jeanette MacDonald, Lew Ayres.
Maybe it’s the recent cold spell or
something, or possibly Jeanette’s tonsils
are temporarily out of plumb, but neither
the M.-G.-M. nor the Sydney St. James
people have ever treated us quite as badly
as this before.
As a general rule, the story—whether
piffle, tophole or non-existent —in a good
musicomedy can be overlooked, but low-
grade musical frotherv with a lower-
grade plot is filmic torture pretty near
its worst. That’s the main trouble with
this present opus—the tunefulness never
amounting to anything out of the rut
and the story being a much-prolonged
and overemphasised rendering of one of
the first and worst plots Hollywood ever
thought of.
Plot offers Jeanette and husband Ayres
making a bare but pleasant existence by
wailing mournful ditties in beer gardens
and concert halls. Jeanette gets her
chance and becomes one of Broadway’s
brightest illuminations, while husband,
through a misunderstanding which could
have been cleared up with a couple of
words if anyone had thought to say
them, leaves her and drinks his way to
a garret. Anybody who doesn’t know
what happens after that has probably
never heard of Hollywood.
Frank Morgan and Franklin Pang-
bourne occasionally wrench a laugh out
of the proceedings, and there are a few
uninteresting ditties culminating in a
wholesale slaughtering of Tchaikowsky’s
“None but the Lonely Heart.”


TRANSMITTER DIALS.
w
Individually spun,
heavy solid nickel
dials with engraved
divisions and
handsome knob.
Diam. 4in.
Price, retail, 12/9.
W rite for leaflet
o n RAYMART
Transmitting Con-
densers. Everything
radio and electrical
at the Lowest
Prices in the State.
e
£u
c *
'•A/*;*
> **%,'%
c ®//:°^ v *+.
* or
*>,<*
'ft,
T.JONES & CO.
CH€MIST...3I4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
e»e
INCREASE TO
YOUR SALES
IS THROUGH
6 PM
6AM
6KG
Perth . .
500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth!
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
The Coaxial Aerial.
Introduced in U.S.A. by the W.E. Co.,
and recently described in its experimental
form in “QST,” the coaxial form of half-
wave aerial appears to be the nearest
approach yet to the perfect half-wave
radiator. It is being used with great
success for ultra-short-wave transmission
by several Australian experimenters.
An ideal aerial for ultra-high-frequency
applications is one which radiates uni-
Fig. 1. —High elevation is essential for
radio transmission at ultra-high
frequencies.
formly the strongest possible signal along
the surface of the earth. It must be
capable of being easily mounted at the
top of a high structure, to take full ad-
vantage of height. Furthermore, it must
be designed electrically to radiate most
efficiently in horizontal directions to make
the greatest use of R.F. power. Fig. 1
shows the importance of aerial height. In
the three cases the transmitter power is
adjusted to give equal signals at a fixed
distance for three heights of 100 ft., 320 ft.
and 1000 ft. To achieve this, the respec-
tive transmitter powers required are 500
watts, 50 watts and five watts. The effec-
tiveness is the same so far as the listener
is concerned, although there is a great
difference in power. Effective power is
proportional to the square of the height
above ground.
The coaxial aerial, outlined in Fig. 2,
represents a practical form of this new
aerial. The slender proportions, short
Fig. 2. —Method of terminating the lower
end of a coaxial aerial in a very high
impedance.
length, light weight and coaxial sym-
metry enable it to be applied easily tc
high poles of standard construction. In
ultra-high-frequency radio communica-
tion the aerial may be considered as
similar to a beacon light, except that ii
emits polarised radiations of a longer
wave-length.
In most cases radio equipment is
located at ground level in a building, and
is connected to a high aerial by means of
a transmission line. For the latter a low-
loss concentric type transmission line will
be necessary. In such a line the useful
current at ultra-high frequencies is carried
by two thin metallic conducting surfaces
—first, the skin surface of the -jin. copper
inner conductor, which may be con-
sidered as the outgoing conductor, and,
secondly, the inside skin surface of the
|in. copper sheath, which may be con-
sidered as the return conductor. The
outer surface of the lin. copper sheath
plays no part in this transfer of useful
energy.
Fig. 2 shows a cross-section of an ele-
mentary form of coaxial aerial in which
a new circuit element is evident. The
enclosed sheath of the transmission line
acts in conjunction with the inner surface
of the larger surrounding tube to form a
short-circuited quarter-wave concentric
line. The characteristics of this shorted
section of line cause an extremely high
impedance to be created across points A
and B. This is equivalent, by simple
analogy, to a high Q anti-resonant circuit
which isolates the pole below point B
from the aerial and reduces the stray
pole current to a minimum. Thus the
aerial can be erected on a metal pole
without fear of loss. When this aerial is
Fig. 3. —Coaxial aerial with reflector in
use at experimental station VK2NO,
Waverley, N.S.W., on 56mc.
supplied with power, its centre is at mini-
mum potential, the top at high potential,
and the bottom of the tube at high poten-
tial. The presence of the high Q anti-
resonance circuit element at the bottom
of the tube allows this high potential to
exist even in the immediate proximity of
the transmission line.
In the commercial application the con-
centric line which feeds the aerial is a
fin. diameter gas-tight line, and is placed
for mechanical strength inside a heavy
brass supporting pipe 2in. in diameter,
both terminating in a solid brass bushing
at the feedpoint, i.e., at the centre of the
aerial. A 3in. diameter coaxial tube is
attached solidly to this bushing at the
feedpoint, and is kept insulated from the
2in. pipe by internal ring insulators. The
quarter-wave rod projects through a
sturdy insulator at the feedpoint and is
connected there to the inner conductor of
the transmission line. Electrically, this
coaxial aerial is a centre-fed doublet, and
consequently closely matches the surge
impedance of a standard fin. concentric
line. The doublet, or dipole aerial, con-
sists of the quarter-wave rod and the
outer surface of the 3in. tube, which is
also a quarter-wave long, making a total
active radiator of one half-wave-length.
During tests for police radio communi-
tion in U.S.A., at a frequency of 35.6mc.,
a coaxial aerial was substituted directly
for a “J” type aerial, with comparative
field intensity measurements being taken
in two directions and at two positions
distant from the station. The measure-
ments showed an eight-decibel increase in
signal strength in favor of the coaxial
Fig. 4. —Similar aerial system at VK2EM,
Killara, N.S.W. Both aerials are fed with
Bassett type 64 / 200 concentric.
aerial for equal power input. To obtain
a similar increase in signal strength from
a 500-watt station by changing the carrier
power alone would require an increase
in the station power up to three kilowatts.
Construction of such a coaxial aerial
for ultra-high frequencies and even lower
frequencies is a simple proposition, pro-
vided that flexible concentric line of the
Bassett type 64/200 is used. Greatly
improved communication results can, be
expected on 56mc., 28mc. and 14mc. by
the use of such aerial systems.
D.B.K.
What's What in Radio.
After eight years of service the old
transmitter at 2KO, Newcastle, N.S.W.,
is to be replaced. The new station will
have a power of 500 watts on 213 metres,
and will employ Class-B modulation.
The ti'ansmitter will be coupled to the
radiating system through a buried con-
centric cable to a guyed lattice radiat-
ing tower situated 600 ft. from the trans-
mitter room. At the latter position an
extensive earth system will be laid. In-
cluded in the equipment will be an
R.C.A. type 96A volume-limiting ampli-
fier for maintenance of modulation at
the highest level consistent with the
musical capabilities of the new equip-
ment. To ensure complete service to
Newcastle, Maitland, Cessnock and
Hunter River areas a complete ground
conductivity survey was made by A.W.A.
engineers recently.
* *» * *
An interesting relic unearthed in 1936
by Dr. Koenig, of the Museum of Bag-
dad, near Tel-Ourar, has been placed as
originating during the period of Kuhuel
of Ctesiphon, or about the years a.d. 224
to 651, and appears to be a genuine
voltaic cell, capable of delivering a small
current at a little less than two volts. It is
a silver vase, 6in. high and about 3fin.
in diameter, with a circular opening
about fin. in diameter. In the inside is
a cylindrical copper tube about 4fin.
high, with an asphalt button about one-
sixteenth of an inch thick at the bottom.
An asphalt washer is placed at the junc-
tion of the neck of the cylinder and the
outside container. The inside of the
copper cylinder is traversed for almost
the full length by a bar of iron. Exami-
nation of the copper showed it to be of
very pure content, and it seems likely
that this relic was used for electroplating
small articles when chemically activated.
Careful chemical analysis may reveal
what solution or solutions may have been
used in the cell.
* * * *
Four N.G. towns —Lae, Salamaua,
Bulolo and Wau—have been linked by
radiophone. Connection is obtained be-
tween any two of the four townships by
the lifting of an ordinary handset tele-
phone and the pressing of a button.
Completion of conversation leaves the
equipment in readiness for calls to or
from the other stations. The
uses mechanical inversion or “scram-
bling” of speech, the signal as heard by
an ordinary radio receiver being unin-
telligible. A.W.A. looked after the
installation.
* * * *
A campaign is being conducted in
England by the Radio Manufacturers
Association to obtain an extension of the
8.8. C. television service to the provinces.
Birmingham is likely to be the next city
to enjoy television, but the financial
question is the immediate obstacle. In
order to radiate from Birmingham or
any other northern city the television pro-
grammes originating in London, either
coaxial cable or radio link will be
necessary, the latter being the least ex-
pensive.
Amateur Chatter.
VK2EM, of Killara, is the second
Sydney 56mc. station to use the coaxial-
type aerial. Results have shown vast
improvement over the previous two-
section BJK beam. Installation is similar
to that at VK2NO, with coaxial radiator
fed with concentric cable, backed by a
half-wave reflector spaced a quarter-wave
away. A good idea for mobile 56mc.
work would be a coaxial aerial in square
Reinartz form, such a system being com-
pact and possessing useful directive quali-
ties.
On 9/7/’39, whilst listening on 28mc.,
VK2PS, Croydon (N.S.W.), overheard a
ZL telling a K 6 that 56mc. stations from
Honolulu had been observed there, ap-
parent evidence that there is still hope
for 56mc, DX. VK2LZ and VK2NO
decided during communication on 56mc.
on the night of 8/7/’39 to change to
3.5mc. for a comparative test. As with
56mc., full-strength ’phone communi-
cation was obtained, but because of the
background noise and selective fading
on the low frequency the u.-h.-f. channel
proved far the better.
On 3.5mc. consistent trans-Tasman and
inter-State contacts are possible, with
very low power, provided that a good
aerial does the radiating. VKSBF, of
Murray Bridge (S.A.), was heard during
a round-table QSO with other VKs’s to
say that his input from the portable gear
was exactly three watts. QRP is the only
way to avoid BCL trouble when using
the band. •
GSKA relates in his “Long Skip” notes
in “Television and Short-wave World”
(Eng.) the unenviable experience of a
G 8 who is a keen portable-mobile ex-
perimenter on five and 160 metres. Whilst
out late one night working 160 metres
word was passed to the C.I.D. that “an
I.R.A. radio plant was touring London’s
streets.” The G 8 had a lot of explain-
ing to do next morning.
In England the R.A.F. Civilian Wire-
less Reserve is functioning smoothly, and
a number of well-known G amateurs
have been granted R.A.F.V.R. commis-
sions. They are: Kenneth lowers
(GSZJ), H. “C. Page (G6PA), John
Hunter (G2ZQ), H. A. M. Whyte
(G6WY), G. R. Scott-Farnie (GSFI),
S. G. Morgan (G6SM), J. W. Paddon
(G2IS), C. H. Parsons (GWBMP), W. M.
Craig (GM6JJ), C. S. Goode (G2OH),
W. G. Money (G2UP) and R. K. Budge
(GBXH).
The 8.8. C. list of Empire stations
shows GSU on 7.26mc. and GSW on
7.23mc., their frequencies being in the
7200-7300 kc. portion of the amateur 40-
metre band. The stations will not go
into action until September 1 this year.
They will have a carrier power of 50kw.,


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” lias been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
terfimcai nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DICES!, it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/- perycar,
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney. &
w
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year In
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney,
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of ail
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
and “may be used for service to Europe,
Australia and India.” In other words,
good-bye to the H.F. end of the old
band!
VK2NO.
U.-H.-F. Section, W.I.A.
(N.S.W. Division).
The second meeting of the recently-
formed ultra-liigh-frequency section of
the W.I.A. (N.S.W. Division) was held
at the Y.M.C.A., Pitt-street, Sydney, on
July 6.
The roster of stations scheduled for
56mc. transmissions weekly in Sydney
will remain as previously, though, in-
stead of maintaining an unbroken hour’s
transmission, stations may seek contacts
on the band at 15-minute intervals. As
the primary object of the schedules was
to ensure that at least one station shall
be active on the 56mc. band nightly, there
is no need to stick rigorously to the
hourly transmission if and when other
stations are available on the air for
general communication.
It was decided that more activity is
desirable during daylight hours at week-
ends, when possible DX conditions are
most likely to be advantageous because
of possible, listeners at distant locations.
It is emphasised that membership in
the u.-h.-f. section calls for membership
in the W.I.A. Apart from the desir-
ability of maintaining unity and close
co-operation with the W.I.A. council,
members receive the official magazine,
Amateur Radio,” and copies of “Radio-
tronics” (by A.W. Valve Co.), and their
QSL cards to U.S.A. are sent free of
charge.
It was announced that the “Australian
Radio News” Cup, originally com-
peted for annually in inter-club com-
petition, is now donated by The Bulle-
tin for competition in u.-h.-f. activities.
It will go to the member of W.I.A.
(N.S.W. Division) who shows evidence
ol the most valuable and consistent ex-
perimental work on the 56mc. band dur-
ing the period August 1, 1939, to July
31, 1940. The decision of the council for
this award will be final and binding.
Following a suggestion by vice-presi-
dent Ross Treharne (VK2IQ), it was ar-
ranged that the Division H.Q. station,
VK2WI, will commence ultra-high-fre-
quency news broadcasts on Sundays at
11 a.m. on a frequency of 7180 kc. in
order to pass the latest u.-h.-f. informa-
tion to stations at distant points. It is
suggested also that more use be made of
the 7mc. band for communication be-
tween distant stations for the purpose of
arranging and checking up on 56mc.
schedules.
For the benefit of stations seeking co-
operation on 56mc., these are the tele-
phone numbers of active Sydney sta-
tions : VK2IQ, UJ4465; VK2NO
FW2443 ; VK2WJ, FJ1222; VK2VN
XMT92B ; VK2AFM, UW8917 ; VK2Hp’
FX5768 ; VK2TI and VK2WI, FX3305 ;
VK2EM, JX3438.
E. Fanker (VK2HS), chief engineer of
Tasma Radio, will deliver a lecture at
the next meeting on August 3. His sub-
ject will be of keen interest to those plan-
ning suitable receivers to keep pace with
stabilised transmissions on 56mc.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
The Manila “Sunshine” station just
below 49 metres commences at 7 p.m.
with a weak signal, but by 8 p.m. strength
is well up. The callsign sounds like
KZEG, but no announcement has been
heard relating to frequency or wave-
length. I fluked W6XBE on 31.48 metres
at 5.15 p.m. on 2/7/’39, the signal being
very strong. The Swiss stations HBO
and HBJ have been heard well between
4 and 4.30 p.m., but did not equal the
best of the 19-metre stations. GSD is
the best station, and RNE has been very
strong at 3.30 p.m.
Two unknown stations have been
noted on 25.47 and 25.37 metres at
3.30 p.m., the latter strong. Just under
47 metres has been heard what might
have been the signal from the Madigan
expedition in Centralia, but not a word
could be understood because of the weak
signal and noise level. The Cloncurry
station, just below 35 metres, is heard
very strongly here, and I often hear the
pedal sets in the Far North, from as far
as Gregory Downs.
K.B.G. (Thargomindah).
Television in U.S.A.
On April 30 television made a formal
debut in U.S.A. when the N.B.C. trans-
mitted pictures of President Roosevelt
opening the New York World’s Fair. The
A.B.C. Wants to broadcast my sermon next Sunday
Tha's fine. They must take 'ee for a foreigner .”
system used was that developed by
R.C.A., and television programmes from
the same source are continuing twice a
week. Viewers 50 miles away received
the pictures clearly and steadily.
The N.B.C. mobile unit was placed
some 50ft. in front of the President’s
box. From there the images were sent
over coaxial cable to the control truck
and the ultra-short-wave transmitter
stationed at the Federal Government
building. The pictures were there trans-
mitted on a frequency of 177mc. and
picked up by a relay receiver at the
Empire State Tower, being passed on to
the W2XBS transmitter operating on
42.45mc. Sound was broadcast on
49.75mc.
Large - screen television receiving
apparatus made in England by the Baird
Co. is being installed in several New
York theatres. An interesting legal
problem has arisen. When large-screen
television is featured in any London
theatre, the rights have to be paid for
to the promoter of the televised event,
and 8.8. C. permission must be sought
for use of the transmitted signal. In
U.S.A. the transmitting stations can
make no claim. Once the programme
material is on the air the networks lose
their rights to the subject. Because of
this large-screen television should forge
ahead more rapidly in U.S.A. than in
England.
D.B.K.
Trade Notes.
Loudspeakers produced by the Rola
Co. now include a new feature described
as “permacentric construction.” Funda-
mentally, this consists of an inward ex-
tension of the cone housing raised so
as to form a support for the corrugated
fibrous spider. The support is perforated
and lined on the inside with a porous
dustproof material to provide thoroughly
efficient dustproofing. The spider is
firmly fixed to the top of this raised
support, and it is impossible to move the
diaphragm out of alignment except by
application of considerable force. The
12in. types Kl 2 and Fl 2 Rola speakers
are now fitted.
Considerations for
Constructors.
In the course of experimental work
with radio and electrical apparatus
of all kinds, many economical and
time-saving ideas are unearthed. Con-
structional readers are invited to sub-
mit contributions for this new section.
“0.P.W.”: A convenient way of lead-
ing in from an outside receiving aerial
is to use insulated wire, and to shut a
window on it. In time, trouble may
develop in the way of crackling noises
in the receiver, especially where stranded
wire is used. As the strands become
frayed the ends will make intermittent
contact, and the breakage is not usually
evident. It is better to use the correct
type of lead-in tube,
* * * *
“bry”. v i l ,
i V alve-base coils have been
lase<a . some considerable time by
those interested in short waves, but the
material of which the bases are moulded
is not always the best as an insulating
medium. The illustration shows a wav-
of treating valve bases for a double pur-
pose: to improve the Q of the coil and
to increase the diameter. Celluloid strips
are cemented into saw-cuts in the valve
base. Most of the coil data accompany-
ing American constructional articles are
for l|in. diameter coils, and as valve
bases are Ifin. diameter this idea is
particularly handy.
When testing accu-
mulators with a hydrometer,
it is important to remember
to return the acid to the cell
from which it was taken im-
mediately after the specific
gravity has been ascertained.
* * *
“Querex”: Several valves
at present available are in
effect combinations in one
envelope of the electrodes of
two or more valves. It is
often possible to use these
individually, ignoring the
electrodes relating to one sec-
tion. There are duo-diode-
pentodes with unusual char-
acteristics in the pentode sec-
tion, and it is possible to use
this as a straight pentode.
* * *
“Amrad”: Apart from
the safety aspect, 240-volt
A.C. mains leads to power
and lighting points on a radio
workbench need shielding
and earthing in conduit from
another viewpoint. A con-
structor I know spent con-
siderable time and patience
trying to eliminate a prom-
inent hum in a receiver.
Eventually the source turned
out to be the close proximity
to the aerial lead of the flex
for a pivot lamp. Removing
the flex a few feet from the
aerial removed the hum.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Details are needed of an aerial for use on
short waves with a five-valve dual-wave super-
het. I am on Flinders Island in Bass Strait,
on flat country three miles from the coast.
Height is about 150 ft. above sea-level. —794.
A wide resonance doublet should be suitable.
It should be 20ft. each side with a matching
triangle of 10ft. in the centre, with twisted pair
transmission line to the receiver. The trans-
mission line may be any convenient length,
and the aerial should be erected as high as pos-
sible, preferably between two poles placed
north and south.
* * * *
Particulars are needed of a dope suitable for
home-made coils, combining strength and good
R.F. insulation. —793.
Clear duco is as efficient as anything. Troli-
tul varnish can be obtained in Sydney from
Price’s Radio Service, Angel-place.


There are THOUSANDS of
e
IMPEBIAL
“GOOD COMPANION”
PORTABLES
In Use Throughout Australia.
Have you ever heard of one that ever
gave mechanical trouble? They re lowest
in price because they save the duty and
primage on foreign machines. Absolutely
complete because they have all the
features found on a full-sized office type-
writer. British made from British steel,
with in-built mechanical dependability.
Weigh only 12^1b.
FREE COURSE IN TYPEWRITING
—for every purchaser of a typewriter. A thoroughly
complete and concise Manual. Any student who
conscientiously completes this course - cannot fail to
become an expert typist.
Sheep Property for Sale.
GOOD Queensland Sheep Property, 6400 acres,
r.- and d.-netted, seven dams, 19 paddocks, two-
st. house, e.l. and water laid, s. shed, yards,
garage, etc. Rates £2O, rent free 17 years more,
no pear, 5000 sheep, many studs, other stocK.
£BOOO, half cash. ’Phone, wire or write 45,
GUNNEWIN, ROMA, QUEENSLAND.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
A New Ceylon
“Kaloa”: The Taylor patrol, with its
250 carriers, is home from the interior
of New Guinea. Criticised on the score
of cost —it was the largest expedition ever
sent out in Australasia —it justified the
outlay, because it has done in one bite,
knowledgeably and thoroughly, what it
might have needed 20 small expeditions
and the loss of many lives to accom-
plish. Because of the completeness of
its organisation, it was able to keep in
full radio touch with civilisation during
its progress, and when in difficulty had
recourse to aeroplane supplies.
The report of the expedition declares
that the central plateau between Mt.
Hagen and the Dutch border runs to
20,000 square miles, and is peopled by
a race with flourishing agriculture and
beautified villages and with a friendly
attitude towards whites. The uplands
are cool and healthy, the rainfall abun-
dant.
On the south-east the plateau is cut
off from the coast by the Bismarck
Range, of which the highest point is Mt.
Wilhelm, 14,000 ft., and by the Ramu
River, whose fertile valleys in the up-
lands run almost parallel with the coast.
In the north the Star Mountains run
along the Papuan border, reaching their
apex where Dutch, Papuan and Man-
dated territories join, and linking up with
the Victor Emmanuel Range, which some
of the party crossed, through an 11,500 ft.
pass, to discover the source of the Sepik
River.
This great stream runs right across the
northern Mandated Sepik Province, from
corner to corner, sending out or taking
in a multitude of tributaries, and making
the country one of the best-watered in
the world.
The Taylor expedition describes the
country as a new Kenya ; but it seems
rather a new Ceylon, since the climate is
insular instead of continental, and it is
devoid of the dangers of disease and of
the wild animals and savages which
beset interior Africa.
It is almost as big as Ceylon, which
carries nearly 5,000,000 people. Its
heights should have all the Ceylonese
facilities for producing tea as well as for
general agriculture. Its rivers give it a
means of cheap transport. Its high moun-
tains, which by air are not much more
than a day’s flight from the southern
Australian capitals, should help to make
it a great tourist resort, and its terrain
renders it one of the best naturally-
defended parts of Australian territory.
It is a prize which any overcrowded
nation might covet, and which any white
nation might colonise with success.
The future of this fine country should
be determined at once as a matter of
major policy. Its existence is one of the
strongest arguments for the establish-
ment of the Mandated Territory, along
with Papua, of which the uplands share
its blessings of fertility, as an integral
part of the Commonwealth.
“East Point”: When Darwin’s new
R.A.A.F.. station, five miles outside the
town, is completed, it will be one of the
biggest individual settlements in the
N.T., housing 600 people in a mile-
square model village. The two hangars
will hold three squadrons of ’planes. The
landing ground is being built to provide
larger scope than any other in the
Empire save Botwood in Newfoundland ;
runways will be a mile long. Bomb-
proof shelters, a hospital, a “school,” a
sportsground and underground work-
shops are being provided. About 100
men are on the job, the essential features
of which will cost £250,000.
* ■ * * *
“Aileron”: With the extension of ser-
vices, heavy expenditure on some
northern and central aerodromes is be-
coming urgent. Cairns needs about
£60,000 to make its landing ground
reasonably modern. At present, its 800-
yard runways are too short for comfort
with big machines, especially as there is
soft mangrove mud underneath. At
Alice Springs recently the mail ’plane
became bogged. Yet a few thousands
spent there would make a completeiy
watertight landing ground. Apart from
“ C’mon ; Ma — y’re ’ oldin me up!"
the value of passengers’ lives, the Lock-
heeds which are using it are worth
£30,000 each, and it is a vital half-way
stop for mail and defence flying.
¥ * * *
“Arnhem”: Nobody pretends to un-
derstand the administrative mind of
Darwin, but there is growing irritation
along the Arnhem Coast at the inactivity
of the patrols. The new police vessel
Kura, after taking a year to get to its
destination from the south, has been
seen lying in Darwin harbor for days
when the pearling season had begun.
The mission lugger Larrpan came in with
the news that 100 Japanese luggers were
sheltering with a mother ship near Cape
Stewart, 300 miles away. This means
that there are Japanese crews of about
1200 at work close to the Australian
coast. The only problem in the minds
of those who have followed the opera-
tions of the Government in dealing with
the visitors during the past few. years
is whether the Kuru would do more
harm at Cape Stewart than eating her
head off at Darwin. But if Darwin is
her proper station, why is she needed
at all?
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Brisbane Royal Show to be
held next month has a record entry of
cattle— p.c. greater than last year.
It shows that wool is no longer king
among the land industries in the north.
Dairying returns last year were larger
than those from fleece. Sugar beat both.
* *
“XT.”: Queensland does not seem to
be afflicted with the panic which has
filled vacant spaces in Sydney and Mel-
bourne with placards urging the regis-
tration of children for gasmasks and
concentration against bombing raids.
Health Minister Hanlon took a census
of protective facilities the other day. He
found that Queensland appeared to own
95 gasmasks. He has “asked the Federal
Government to expedite the supply of
equipment, but without success so far.”
*•* * *
“East Point”:. Darwin ideas of
economy are queer. One payment
authorised in a recent “Government
Gazette” is a bill for £237 for motor hire,
4740 miles—ls. a mile. There is surely
enough left over from other projects to
enable the Government to have a car or
two OfltS-OTto. .'Ha driver'is needed, it
wouW be good experience for a. member
of the garrison to drive it and so come
to know the roads. of the interior and
their nature and difficulties.
* *
; a ll a
Gouger : These old battlers still put
the youngsters to shame when they are
up against it. Bill Simmonds, 68, who
has been prospecting the gullies round
Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), fell down and broke
his hip. Crawling round, he found suf-
ficient sticks to splint the break. Then
he did another crawl of- several miles
through the bush to a and,
lighting his pipe at intervals, lay down
to, wait for succor. Eight days.later he
was rescued. He is now in .hospital
making a rapid recovery, though, the re-
port says, “suffering ■■ from exposure and
lack of food.” * >
* * * *
“Mataranka”: Tragedy has fallen on
the settlers of the Daly River (N.T.),
whose little harvest of peanuts provides
.. - +u ' r~ u u
them with sustenance. They have
struggled for years against seasonal dif-
Acuities and Kingaroy competition, and
iast year had a fairly good crop. The
old Maroubra arrived from Darwin tow-
mg a punt to lift 800 bags. The growers
took it that this vehicle was watertight
and loaded half the nuts. It was found
that the punt was leaking badly and the
nuts were soaked through. Meanwhile,
other consignments were arriving. The
Maroubra-suddenly darted off at full speed
about six knots to tow targets round
Darwin Harbor, leaving the cargo be-
hind. Rain fell and the nuts were fur-
ther saturated and spoilt. They had
been specially graded for the Sydney
market. Planting for the 1938-39 season
will he small
‘ # *
* * , *„
“Zedo”: The Queensland Government,
on the advice of its Co-ordinator General
of Development, has decided to take
first steps towards damming the Con-
damine (Darling Downs), Maclntyre
Brook and Barambah Creek for water
storage and irrigation. There is a good
deal to be said for the schemes, which
all touch good cattle-fattening and agri-
cultural country, and are. all. handy to
sources of reserve fodder and to some
of the dry areas. Water supply will soon
have to be taken in hand in the central-
west in a large way if the sheep industry
is to live.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Yarning with an old
Atherton Plateau (Q.) friend, we recalled
some of Harvey Jurd’s bullock-wagon
feats, and how he brought up the first
beer to Millaa Millaa’s first pub. “Those
were good days,” he said, “before the
walnut.” It is years since I last, heard
that purely Far-North expression. When
we were chopping farms out of the vast
rain forest which covered the Plateau a
man who had much walnut on his land
cursed his luck and it —for a cranky-
cutting, non-burning blankard of a vege-
table incubus. Then came a demand for
it as a first-rate timber for fine cabinet
work, prices rose and kept on rising, the
lazy ones who had put off from year to
year the hard yakka involved in clear-
ing the walnutty section discovered that
it was a money-spinner and loudly
praised their own foresight, and before
long there won’t be a walnut tree left
in the district.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: That “Expanding Air
Services” leader (B. 5/ 7 / ’39) hits the
mark. Here’s a month-old example. A
man on the Upper Fly River in furthest-
back Papua went down with acute
appendicitis on a Saturday afternoon.
n d river b launch> and
, ” . , 'i' A , 1
the facts transceivered to Poit Moresby,
A seaplane left Port at 5 next morning
with a doctor, refuelled at Daru, and
followed the Fly up for several hundred
mdes urd fi the launch was sighted. The
seaplane alighted, the patient was trans-
ferred, and before sundown was in Port
Moresby Hospital with every modern
surgical resource at his disposal. Also,
s * x hours of pain and worry had beep
spared him by skilful professional reliet
during the air-journey. Without the
’plane it would have been a week s
launch , voyage, much ol it in open water
w hh a stiff south-easterly breeze on the
beam.
. * * * . *
“Booraby”: A perennial subject of
bush jokes is the jackeroo, but the earlier
members of the confraternity added
much more to the joys of hut and camp-
fire than their modern counterparts. One
ol the best-remembered of t e o -
timers was a prodigal gent, who was
knQwn th h £ ut Queensland as “Lord
Wood » Af f er a br ief introduction to
stQck and station prob i e ms, he launched
on his own and made himse lf famous
having a string b and to meet him and
J cort hi m to his “ranch.” While there
he was the most generous squatter that
eyer handed QUt rations t 0 the wan dering
Je • whom he j oine d after he had
’ through a fortune of £BO,OOO in
record t j me i n bis later days he was
w harf-lumping at a Queensland port, and
subsequently a horse pitched him into
eternity on the Nebo-road, near Mackay.


The Bicliardson Chain Hotel
1
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from. . 12/6
’Phone: M 4141. (10 lines).
Be proud of your stock! Feed the best
mineral supplement —
ofyjL-Cbdi-OzL
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
The most reliable source of calcium and phosphorus
for sheep, cattle, pigs, etc. It ensures early maturity,
maintains good health and increases production.
Tri-cal-os contains over 70 per cent, tri-calcic phos-
phate ... it costs the farmer less and goes further.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.
Ask for, Tri-cal-os for sheep, cattle or pigs.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Year.
Ghanam”: The total value of Aus-
tralian wool sold during the season just
completed was £42,541,000, of which
£38,673,000 came from Australian sales
and the balance from business overseas.
In the Commonwealth sales totalled
2,929,548 bales —168,800 bales more than
last year—but the average price was only
10.57 d. against 12.73 d. in 1937-8.
The new clip will be heavier. Official
estimate is 3,096,000 bales, of which a
little over 2,800,000 will be offered within
the Commonwealth, and there are over
100,000 bales of carryover to be dealt
with 63,192 bales held in Sydney,
15,000 bales in Brisbane, 21,000 bales in
Victoria, 7000 bales in Adelaide, and
8300 bales in W.A.
The July market, usually quiet, is
active and promising ; but the fate of
the new season depends almost entirely
on the ability of Japan, Germany, U.S.A.
and Italy to absorb raw wool. The more
they need the stronger the competition.
There is little doubt that the past season’s
conditions would have been entirely dif-
ferent had there been strong buying
competition even from Japan alone. As
it was, the Japanese bought only 225,000
bales to May 31, 550,000 bales fewer than
they bought in 1935-36.
Footrot and Foot Abscess.
“J.R.D.”: The foot abscesses in sheep
described by “B-gar” (B. 5/7/’39) are
common all over southern and s.-w.
N.S.W. and Victoria.
The trouble originates above the hoof.
If the hoof is opened, as for footrot
treatment, it will be found full of
yellowy-green pus. As it affects sheep
similarly to footrot and as treatment of
both is the same, sheepmen are calling
the disease footrot; but the two diseases
are unlike both in incidence and origin.
Footrot is caused by a germ which
cannot exist without a host for longer
than a few weeks. It is possible to clean
up a property by spelling paddocks, treat-
ing outbreaks thoroughly and getting rid
of all lame sheep—the carriers. Footrot
is highly infectious. Sheep may get foot-
rot in two, three or all feet, and all ages
from young lambs may be affected.
Foot abscess is usually confined to one
or, at the most,' itwo feet, and usually
attacks grown sheep only, though some-
times a small percentage of hoggets are
affected.
Footrot usually begins between the toes
and attacks the heels, separating the horn
from the inner sole. When the horn is
cut away the foot is found to be greyish-
black inside.
Foot abscess is caused by a germ that
originates in the bowel. Infection comes
from the droppings, and sheep camps
are the most likely, areas of infection. The
germ finds its way through a crack in the
animal’s hoof and sets up an abscess—
usually near the toe. The hoof may
appear perfectly sound, but if sheep show
the least sign of lameness open the foot
and make sure. If this is not done, the
abscess will break out above the coronet.
Treatment of the open sores is not
enough—the seat of the trouble is inside
the hoof.
Foot abscess may cause greater imme-
diate losses than footrot. There have
been cases in which the abscess had
reached and destroyed parts of the bone
and tendons. In such cases the animal
is beyond treatment.
Isolate affected sheep in a small pad-
dock for frequent treatment. Open all-
affected hoofs with knife or secateurs.
Remove all diseased horn and tissue and
drain pockets of pus. Dress with anti-
mony butter, or 31b. bluestone dissolved
in one gallon water, applied with a brush.
Stand sheep for at least 15 minutes in a
footbath, 4in. deep, of 10 p.c. bluestone
(lib. to each gallon of water) or 5 p.c.
formalin (1 gallon to 20 gallons water).
Formalin is easier to mix and does not
stain the wool.
Repeat the treatment two or three times
a week. Put all sheep that have been in
“No Wonder she Wouldn't pull up the flamin' 'ill with that brat 'angin on."
contact with affected animals through
footbath once a week while the danger
period lasts.
You can’t hope to cure footrot or
abscess unless the hoof is completely
opened up.
Jetting v. Crutching.
“Colane”: “Warramulla” (B. 21/6/ ’39)
opposes jetting, but gives no satisfactory
alternative for an acute fly wave such as
western N.S.W. has just passed through.
Crutching once only would have been of
little avail; and if “Warramulla” got
away with it for nine out of the last ten
years it wasn’t without dead and missing
figuring in the stock book.
In a flush season, the channel soon be-
comes stained after crutching. Strikes
begin. Then yarding starts with the usual
chasing in paddock with bottle and
shears as the beginning of a losing fight.
Shearing is often put forward, while the
clip suffers from dust getting into fleeces
during the frequent yardings.
Jetting with an arsenic mixture will
give certain immunity for five weeks.
Strikes may occur, as with crutched ewes,
on the urine-stained channel, but instead
of being free to travel into the long wool
the maggots are either poisoned or, at
worst, are confined to a small area.
Where results after jetting have been
unsatisfactory, it is due either to the fluid
not penetrating to the skin or to hit-and-
miss tactics with the gun. The whole
crutch area, and over the tail, must be
systematically saturated. Careless mixing
of arsenic often accounts for failures
also. . .
Were I caught with ewes heavy in lamb
I would prefer the jetting race to the
board every time. I regularly jet 6500
stud ewes in a properly-constructed jet-
ting-race two weeks off lambing. This
carries them through the six weeks’ spring
lambing without losses from fly, without
the risk of mortality from turned
lambs and shearing-board infections that
follow crutching. In 1937 we marked
111 p.c. lambs from a mob of 900 jetted
ewes.
Blowfly oils and dressings are designed
to kill the maggot and repel the fly. If
they’re used during crutching or dressing
the fly, finding the swabbed area distaste-
ful, strikes a little off the edge of it in
the clean wool, and the maggots are free
to track into the fleece.
Arsenical jetting fluids are not repul-
sive to the fly. Sheep are frequently
blown after jetting, but the arsenic-
charged wool poisons any maggots that
may hatch.
Thoroughly-jetted flocks are literally
flytraps, and must minimise the fly prob-
lem on any property.
Pig-rearing Points.
“Berkshire”: To rear good suckers (B.
28/6/’39) they must be carefully fed even
before they are born. The sow needs
good feeding from half-time, eight weeks
after service.
Don’t depend too much on slops. Feed
concentrates in some form —pollard,
crushed or boiled grain—wheat, barley,
oats, maize in about that order, also
plenty of green feed, preferably clover
or lucerne. If these are not available a
plot of turnips, kale or chou-moellier
or silver beet will provide useful laxative
food.
The young pigs are a big drain on a
sow. She should get small amounts of
meat-meal regularly and have the run
of a shallow box containing charcoal
ashes and some slaked lime, the whole
well mixed. This will improve her diges-
tion and help to supply bone material to
the little chaps.
Near farrowing time, do not gorge the
sow. If she needs attention at farrowing
handle her for some days beforehand.
Scratch her quietly along the back, then
rub her gently along the belly, and she
will lie down, when she may be massaged
lightly along the belly.
Don’t use too much bedding. A rail
Bin. from the floor and 6in. from the
wall will prevent her jamming the little-
chaps against the wall. At farrowing
time have a kerosene-case handy with a
dry bag in the bottom. As they come
quietly place the young ones in the box,
where they will fight around, keep them-
selves warm and dry-out. After the sow
has finished give her a little warm drink.
Feed her carefully for a few days. A
full feed after farrowing may kill her.
At three weeks or a few days before
scatter a little pollard moistened with
sweetened new milk to induce the little
fellows to eat —preferably where the sow
cannot molest them. When they learn
to pick give them a little milk and pol-
lard three times a day, oftener as their
appetite increases. Be careful to give
only clean sweet food, as they scour
easily.
At six weeks, castrate the boars; at
eight weeks wean. Leave the two poorest
pigs on the sow for another two weeks
and reduce her ration to half-dry her off.
When the young ones are weaned she
usually comes into season. Sometimes,
indeed, before the pigs are weaned. If
not disposed of as suckers, feed them
liberally, and they will clean up a
varied diet. Don’t forget sties and plenty
of bedding.
Feeding Horses.
“Kyamba”: Here’s an experiment in
horse-feeding which tells its own story:
The daily feed for each mare and four-
months-old foal, weighing together about
20001 b., comprised wheaten chaff 351 b.,
green lucerne 201 b., peas 41b., wheat 21b.,
barley 21b. and linseed meal ylb. Nutri-
tive ratio was 1 to 7.5.
From Feb. 3 to Feb. 28 the foals in-
creased in weight at the rate of a


w
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
»S
m
%
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
E
M
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
ffluTfyxxlleZz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM-AEIOMVM M DOMiMFHEALni
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold—Shell Co., 64 Repeat order*
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
e
w
day and the mares by 4flb. a day. On
March 18 the weaning of the foals began,
and to this date the foals increased but
the mares remained steady. On weaning
(at age of five and a half to six months)
the foals averaged 7501 b., and were fed
on wheatened chaff 121 b., green lucerne
101 b., peas lib., wheat fib., barley fib.,
linseed meal fib.
Until April 8 the seven foals increased
by 3flb. daily. Thus they received no
check whatever. They were thrifty, sleek
and well-conditioned in appearance
throughout.
Premier Wheat State.
“A.A.D.”: The price level for N. S.
Wales wheat advanced last season to first
place in the U.K. market. The average
quotation for cargoes during the Decem-
ber-June period was 3d. a quarter above
the highest for other States.
The season’s f.a.q. proved under mill-
ing and baking tests to be of the highest
standard yet recorded. Favorable
seasonal conditions during the finishing
and harvesting periods were a factor in
the high-grade sample produced, but the
basis undoubtedly was the improved
varieties officially recommended and in
general cultivation.
South Australia ranked a close second
in the export market, but Westralia,
which had a reputation for uniformity of
grade, fell back several points. Victoria,
which has been on a lower market owing
to the preponderance of very weak flour
wheats grown—Free Gallipoli and Ranee
—was not. an exporter to U.K. owing
to crop-failure.
Queensland, the latest to join the ex-
porting States, with shipments totalling
If million bushels, has the lowest price
average, with sales down to 19s. 9d. a
quarter. This was not due to deficiency
in quality, which was first-class, but to
selling “afloat” instead of f.0.b., as was
general in the three major States.
Weeds and Soil Erosion.
“G.C.C.”: Pastoralists are apt to be-
come alarmed at the gradual increase of
some of our so-called noxious weeds. But
it appears to me that nature has provided
some of them for a very good purpose-
namely, to check soil erosion and re-
habilitate the natural pastures.
Consider galvanised burr or goat-
head, belonging to the bassia family. This
woody-like and scantily foliaged plant
grows over large areas of Queensland
and N.S.W. on sandy or claypan soil,
where there is little or no grass perhaps
as a result of overstocking.
The galvanised burr collects leaves and
grass-stems round its thorny branches.
Soil and sand heap up around it, and in
time seeds of different grasses germinate
in that loose subsoil. These seedlings are
protected by the plant from sun and
wind, and stock do not like penetrating
amongst the sharp thorns ; thus the grass
becomes firmly rooted.
Hence we see how erosion is checked
by this inedible (except by camels) plant.
In time, when those bare sandy patches
become covered with grass, this burr
slowly dies out.
Another of these useless fodder weeds
which is prevalent on the Peak Downs
of Central Queensland is what is com-
monly known as Mexican poppy or
thistle. It grows in heavy black or red
soil where the grass has been eaten out.
Its sharp, pointed, spiny leaves keep stock
away from it, unless they’re starving in
search of food. The same process of re-
habilitation can be credited to this as in
the case of galvanised burr.
Neither of these plants is detrimental
to the wool on the sheep, and I don’t
think that there is any cause for alarm
in the speading of these so-called noxious
weeds.
Hints for the Farm.
“Goulburn”: When hitching a horse
to a log or sled, fix the swingletree to
an old motor tyre tied to the snig rope
or chain. When the horse starts the pull,
the tyre gives and prevents jars from
obstructions. Try the same scheme when
breaking in a young horse. The feel of
the tyre when he begins to pull will make
the youngster a steady starter instead
of a plunger.
“Mullengah”: Mow and burn bracken,
or break down with a heavy roller, to
encourage stock to fossick amongst the
ferns for grass. Trampling helps to dis-
courage the pest. Sow some clover and
grass seeds, and topdress at the rate of
at least lcwt. of superphosphate per acre
to build up a dense sward of pasture that
will control the fern. Keep the bracken
cut as it grows, and topdress the area
with super, every year. Kikuyu grass
will dominate bracken, but don’t plant
it near cultivation land as it is difficult
to eradicate and spreads rapidly.
“Canbelego”: Don’t make much use
of bulls less than two years old for breed-
ing purposes. Keep the bull growing and
well cared for, but don’t overfeed him.
Don’t let him run with the cows. Give
him plenty of room for exercise, and let
him be in the open as much as possible.
Provide shelter in bad weather.
“Merino”: A mob of ewes at the
Bumbaldry Stud, Cowra, N.S.W.,
dropped five lambings in years, all
of which, as sucker lambs, brought top
prices. Further, the ewes never shore
less than nine pounds of wool. Well-
lucerned paddocks helped.
“Blade”: The California Woolgrowers’
Association has invited the Australasian
Corriedale Society to send fleeces to the
International Exposition at San Fran-
cisco, and J. M. Phelan, of Attunga
(N.S.W.), is to be asked to offer the fleece
with which he won the championship at
Sydney Show, with those from other
breeders for selection. Fleeces from the
Southern Hemisphere must have been
shorn on or after July 1, 1938, or at any
time during 1939. They should be of
12 months’ growth, but those of 13
months’ growth will be accepted. Prize-
winning fleeces in each section will be
given to the University of California to
be used for a permanent exhibit, and all
other fleeces will be sold by the Exposi-
tion to defray costs.
“Don Dorrigo”: Six times winner of
the district fodder conservation competi-
tion, W. R. Winkley, of North Dorrigo
(N.S.W.), places a high value on swedes
in the regular winter supplementary
ration of his milking cows. He is the
first farmer in the State to have included
turnips in competition reserves. This
season he has a 50-ton crop on acres.
When soil and climatic conditions are
right he considers this the best root crop
for the dairy-farmer. His own experience
is that the feeding of swedes has a
markedly beneficial effect on milk pro-
duction.
“Joe Bee”: At Jingellic I had some
experimental plots of Phalaris tuberosa
(B. 28 /6 / ’39) side by side. No. 1 was
a mixture of Akaroa cocksfoot, perennial
red clover and New Zealand wild white
clover. No. 2 was a mixture of Phalaris
and the two clovers. No. 3 was Wim-
mera rye grass alone. No. 4 was a mix-
ture of perennial rye and the two clovers.
Phalaris was easily first favorite and
cocksfoot, last with my cow, which was
allowed to graze on it at intervals. She
would walk over the No. 2 rye plots to
the Phalaris mixture till there was little
to eat. To get the cocksfoot mixture
eaten I had to stand there and keep
her on it.
“Observer”: On a farm at Kangaloon,
originally reclaimed from blackberry and
tussock grass, S. Churchill and his two
sons won the Berrima (N.S.W.) district
fodder-conservation competition with re-
serves consisting only of pasture silage
and meadow hay. The property is a
model in pasture-improvement and
heavy milk-production for the city trade.
Last year Churchill took the R.A.S. grass-
land management championship of the
coastal division. Italian rye grass and
red clover are favored.
“Yarrunga”: Stem rust is prevalent in
self-sown wheat crops in the north-
western and central-western N.S.W.
districts. It is likely to produce
wholesale infection of normal crops
in the spring if suitable conditions
are experienced. Get rid of these danger
crops. If too mature for silage, graze
them down and plough all residue under.
In this way rust-infection will be mini-
mised and soil fertility built up.
“John B.”: Mrs. E. Templeton, of Oxley
Island, won the R.A.S. fodder-conser-
vation championship of the North Coast
(N.S.W.). She had 275 tons of maize
silage, 26 of lucerne hay, 11 of maize
grain and three of meadow hay stored—
enough for 142 head of cattle, against
an estimated normal carrying capacity
of 41. Her property of 147 acres actu-
ally carries 70 cattle, four horses and 100
pigs. Twin silos, each of 85 tons capa-
city, give supplies for stall feeding.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
{Transferred from Service Department.)
Some time ago one of our horses developed
a hard lump on the side of his face about
midway between eye and nostril. After a time
it burst, and has been discharging freely with-
out getting any smaller. We had to pull out
his second pair of temporary incisors in the
upper jaw to let the permanent teeth come
through, and we thought they might have
caused the lump. Permanent teeth now seem
quite normal, apart from being a bit out of
line. Any cure known ? —3955.
The lump is actinomycotic probably, and
due to the ray fungus which grows on long
grass Give one-drachm doses of iodide of
potash daily for as long as it persists. It will
take about one pound or two pounds to clear
it up.
* * * *
(1) How to combat borers in fruit-trees ? (2)
An insecticide to replace corrosive sublimate in
the treatment of cabbage maggots ?— 3953.
(1) To control borers in fruit-trees, small
branches or twigs affected should be destroyed.
On larger branches, the larva may frequently
be reached and killed by inserting into the out-
ward hole a pointed piece of pliable wire, or
a plug of cotton-wool soaked in carbon bisul-
phide may be inserted into such a hole and
then sealed with grafting-wax, soap or clay.
(2) There is no alternative.


tn
mm
: . ut
a
I I
* *
wfc
t
SSSS
4-
te
iim
i
§
s
BB
a
»
gg;MteliPP';
s*g
W//////W//A
i «a
ii . W-
If beer is your drink, join the great
and growing company now calling for
"Double Brown” Ale, Tooth’s great
new winter drink. This full-bodied,
warming, sustaining beer— double rich
in malt and hops—is the drink for
the winter.
TOOTH’S
Ilf Ml BROWN ALE
The Winter Drink for the Beer Drinker!


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn _it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’.CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDJNS, LTD.. Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
- Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W H Hart, M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F E Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., O.M.U.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra Melbourne Sydney and 144 Receiving
-ffices throughout Queensland: andl Northern B;veM«w «1» rep
3 Sr H renenU banking
SHORTHAND
You will learn Dutton Shorthand completely in
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 w.p.m. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson free without obligation.
DUTTON SHORTHAND (N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1644 P, Wellington, N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
at(ach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To exchange From Silver to Steel, by Roy
Bridges (romance of Broken Hill Pty.), for
small encyclopaedia. Also want to buy second-
hand copies of Arnold Bennett’s How to Live
on 24 Hours a Day. —4095.
To buy Zimmerman’s World Resources. —•
4063.
Information Sought.
(1) What was the cause of the sudden slump
in the value of ambergris? What is the basis
now of good perfumes? (3) What was the
maximum price given for ambergris, and has
it any commercial value now? (4) When did
the slump occur'? —3696.
(1) and (2) Ambergris is not actually the basis
of good perfumes, but is the fixative body which
holds the constituents of a perfume in a uni-
form blend. Other fixatives of a resinous
nature are used to a great extent at the present
time. Ambergris will always be used for the
preparation of the highest class of floral per-
fume, but since other cheaper fixative materials
appear to have taken its place for general per-
fumery manufacture a slump in the market
for ambergris has occurred. (3) About £5 an
ounce. Only the finest grades are at present
of any value, the maximum retail price being
about £3 per ounce. (4) During the period
of the depression, 1930-32.
s*» H* H 1
(1) When, and by whom, was the mariner's
compass invented? (2) Upon what principle
does it operate ? —4060.
(1) The fact that a pivoted magnetised steel
needle will point north-south has been known
from very early times. It was once believed
to have been known to the Chinese as long ago
as 2600 b.c., but there is no authentic Chinese
record of an earlier date than the end of the
thirteenth century a.d. The use of the compass
by the Arabs was not authenticated until the
twelfth century, when the description was given
by Alexander Mackarn. From this period on-
ward numerous clear descriptions of the com-
pass are on record. (2) Two principles are used,
one depending upon the earth’s magnetic field,
and the other upon the rotation of the earth
upon its axis.
* :? *
A beetle crawling up a 12 in. rule crawls bin.
the first day, 3 in. on the second, 1 \in. on the
third, and so on, each day crawling half the dis-
tance he covered the day before. How long
will he take to reach the top ? —4064.
The unfortunate insect can never reach the
summit. The sum of the series 6,3, f, i,
etc., is 12 when the series is taken to infinity;
at anything short of infinity (i.e., at the end
of any finite number of terms, say a billion
billion) it will be short of 12.
* * * *
(1) What procedure has to be followed to
secure a landing permit for refugees from
Europe with a position available for them
when they land? (2) What is the landing
fee ? (3) How and where can permits be
obtained ? —3BOO.
(1) Application should be made to the De-
partment of the Interior, Canberra, for per-
mission for a refugee to enter the Common-
wealth. (2) £l. (3) Forms of application may
be obtained from the Secretary, Department of
the Interior, Canberra, or the Inspector, In-
vestigation Branch, Commonwealth Bank Build-
ings, Martin-place, Sydney.
* * * *
(1) To what vessel are boys 15 to 17 years
old first sent when they join Jhe ML. Navy ?
(2) Period of training? (3) Yearly holidays
given? (4) Is it possible for friends or relations
to have access to cadets when vessel is in port ?
(5) What wages are paid for the first 12
months ? —3853.
(1) H.M.S. Philomel, Devonport, Auckland.
(2) Twelve months in H.M.S. Philomel, when
they are drafted to seagoing ships to complete
training and are normally rated ordinary seamen
at 18. (3) Three leave periods of 14 days each
yearly at Christmas, Easter and in August while
in H.M.S. Philomel, and 28 days annually on
being drafted to seagoing ships. (4) Ratings under
training attached to seagoing ships are given
leave to visit their parents and friends when
H.M. ships are visiting their home ports. (5)
Wages payable to the various branches are as
set out in booklet posted.
¥ *
How to determine the polarity of a car
accumulator’s terminals without removing the
top ? —4054.
(a) Connect a direct current voltmeter across
the end terminals. If the meter shows no
reading reverse the connections. The terminal
marked “plus” on the meter is then connected
to the positive accumulator terminal, (b) Con-
nect a length of copper wire to each end of
accumulator terminal. Place the two ends in a
glass containing acidulated water, holding them
at least |in. apart. The end of the wire con-
nected to the negative terminal will gas most
freely.
* * * *
(1) Particulars of the construction of an
electric buzzer? (2) What voltage is required
io operate it? —4015.
(1) Full constructional details will be found
in Harmsworth’s Wireless Encyclopcedia under
“buzzer.” An electric bell can easily be con-
verted into a buzzer by removing the complete
armature and substituting a soft-iron strip about
lfin. long and |in. wide. Before mounting,
polish with fine emery paper. Buzzers may be
purchased at from 2s. 6d. upwards from leading
radio dealers. (2) One or two dry cells (1£
to 3 volts).
* * * *
How did Govett’s Leap, in the Blue Moun-
tains (N.S.W.), get its name? Nearly every
visitor has a different story to tell. Can you
settle the argument? —39os.
A tablet has recently been placed at the top
of the falls to refute the legends arising out
of the name of Govett’s Leap, which was so
named after William Romaine Govett, sur-
veyor, who discovered the falls while sur-
veying the district in 1831.
=l= * ■■■
Can you give me some details of a bream
reported to have been caught on the N.S.W.
South Coast 3ft. long and weighing 291 b.?
—3926.
The fish referred to was not a bream in the
true sense of the word, being in no way re-
lated to the fish which is commonly named as
bream in Australian waters, although it is usually
referred to as Ray’s bream. Scientific name is
Brama raii. It is the first time that a fish
of this species has been recorded on the Aus-
tralian coast with certainty, but it is widely
distributed throughout the world and is not un-
common in European waters.
* * * *
Dates of issues of The Bulletin in which
appeared criticisms of novels by the followmg
Australian authors: (1) Winifred Birkett, (2)
Seaforth Mackenzie, (3) Leonard Mann and
(4) Christina Stead ? —4104.
(1) Portrait of' Lucy (21/9/’3B), Earth’s
Quality (3/4/’35), Three Goats on a Bender
(11/7/’34). (2) Chosen People (12/10/’3B), The
Young Desire It (10/11/ ’37). (3) Mountain
Flat (5/7/’39), A Murder in Sydney (15/9/’37),
Flesh in Armour (2/11 /*32). A long article on
him by M. Barnard Eldershaw also appeared
in The Bulletin of November 24, 1937. (4)
House of All Nations (17/8 / ’3B), The Beauties
and Furies (7/10/’36), Seven Poor Men of
Sydney (28/11 /’34). A long article on her by
M. Barnard Eldershaw also appeared in The
Bulletin of November 3, 1937.
* * * *
Is the word meaning number of lines of
written or printed matter or payment for literary
work at so much a line spelt “linage” or
“lineage” ? —4099.
Webster gives the two forms, “linage” taking
precedence. Fowler says definitely to spell the
word without the middle e; “the other spelling,
though often seen in the newspapers, is, owing
to the existence of lineage descent, still less
desirable than other spellings with mute e.”
* * * *
(1) What is the best method of cleaning after
cordite in a .303 rifle ? (2) If a .303 rifle were
fired at an angle of 30 deg. what would be the
maximum range ? —3996.
(1) Burr’s 3.0 oil is a good preparation for
dealing with cordite and for cleansing rifle
barrels. (2) Mark VI cartridges would easily
travel two miles and Mark VII cartridges three
miles or more if elevated as mentioned.
te * * *
Seven are playing poker; they all buy cards.
The last man to buy, with only four cards left
to buy from, is buying to a routine flush with
both ends open. (1) What are the odds
against his making (a) his routine flush, (b) a
flush, (c) a straight ? (2) Are the odds altered
by the number of players and/or by the number
they buy? (3) How are the odds arrived at?
—3940.
(1) (a) A problem of this sort can be answered
only in light of the known factors. The
routine-flush seeker may, in fact, have no
chance of any sort of flush or straight, all
the needed cards being in other hands. But
he may estimate that as he holds four cards
and the location of all the other 48 is unknown,
and as he needs one of two cards to make his
routine flush, the chances are 48 to 2 against
him. ( b ) 48 to 9. (c) 48 to 8. (2) Not m
the least, from the standpoint of any particular
player. (3) The odds against in each case
are the number of cards in the pack, minus
the number held, to the number of cards in
the remainder of the pack that will fill the hand.
* * * *
(1) Cost of shoulder straps for round
shoulders and where obtainable ? (2) Sydney
agents for Sauerman Bros., Chicago, U.S.A. ?
(3) Firm or company which would undertake
the excavation of gold-bearing gravels by con-
tract ? —3815.
(1) 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. and 15s. 6d., obtainable
from Guyatt and Co., 255-257 a George-street,
Sydney. (2) Noyes Bros., 115 Clarence-street,
Sydney. (3) Get in touch with D. R. Solomon,
6 Wynyard-street, Sydney.
* * * *
Are there any orioles in Australia, and what
are their characteristics? —3942.
Two species occur in Australia —the green
oriole, found in the eastern and northern parts
of the continent, and the yellow oriole, confined
to the north. They frequent forest country,
and live principally on bush fruits, but also
devour insects. Their notes are varied and
melodious, and they mimic the songs and calls
of other birds. Their nests are neat, cup-
shaped structures, suspended from the forks of
horizontal or drooping boughs. The eggs, two
to four in number, are white, with dots and
blotches of various shades of brown.
* * * *
(1) What are the ingredients used in the
preparation with which insulating tape is im-
pregnated ? (2) Material used for the tape ?
(3) How is the insulation applied to the tape ?
—3BBl.
(1) Manufacturers use their own secret
formulae. Manufacturers’ Practical Recipes
quotes the following: Black wax 70 parts, crude
ozokerit 30 parts, gutta-percha 25 parts. (2)
It is a specially prepared cotton fabric. (3)
Treat as for waterproofing. The tape is then
run through the mixture, then through a die
into a drum, the process being repeated if
necessary. Considerable experience is required,
and the machinery is costly.
0. * #
(1) What details does an agent need to buy
a house and land or a block of land in Sydney
or its suburbs ? (2) Costs ? (3) Reliable valu-
ators ? —3647.
(1) Locality, approximate price, cash or
terms, accommodation, construction, approxi-
mate area of land, distance from transport to
the city, aspect and title. (2) Costs in con-
nection with purchase vary according to the
purchase price; N. S. Wales Government stamp
duty at the rate of 15s. in every £lOO of the
purchase money or part thereof; and legal costs,
also varying with the purchase price, but with
a minimum of, say, two guineas. (3) Any
leading Sydney firm of auctioneers and valu-
ators.
# j 3»
(1) What is the coloring of a pure-bred
dingo? (2) Are the teeth of a dingo any dif-
ferent from those of a domestic dog?- —3750.
(1) Pure dingoes are usually tawny with
greyish underfur; the top of the head and
back are generally darker, and the under parts
lighter; the tip of the tail is usually white, and
the feet and chest may also be that shade. A
white race, more or less suffused with tawny,
exists in the south-west of Australia, and black
specimens with tan points and face are often
met With. (2) No essential difference, except
that the teeth of the dingo are noticeably
larger. Thus in a dingo the average length of
the base of the skull is 177 millimetres (nearly
7in.), and the length of the upper flesh tooth
(the third tooth from the back in the upper
jaw) averages 20 millimetres (about £in.).
* * * *
Chances of employment in New Guinea for
a first-class oxy- and electric-welder able to read
and develop from scaled drawings ? —3BBO.
As far as the N.G. Administration is con-
cerned there are no vacancies at present, and
it is unlikely that there will be any in the near
future. When they occur, vacancies in general
in the N.G. service are advertised in the main
daily newspapers in Australian capital cities.
Private firms might offer some opportunity.
The main shipping and mining companies
operating in N.G. are Bulolo Gold Dredging,
Shell House, Carrington-street; New Guinea
Goldfields, 67 York-street; Burns, Philp, 7
Bridge-street; W. R. Carpenter, 19 O’Connell-
street —all Sydney. The Commonwealth
Customs authorities must be satisfied that
persons going to N.G. are assured of a job
there, have a return ticket or have sufficient
capital to keep them while they are there.
* * * *
Recipe for a good polish for a stained
hardwood floor that will not show marks,
crack, be greasy or unduly slippery? —3663.
All polishes show marks, but a beeswax
polish shows less than most and is easily
rubbed Up again; it cannot crack, as it is not
an impervious coating in one sheet; it has
no oil to become greasy; its slipperiness de-
pends on how high a polish you put on it —-
a moderate one is best. Take 4ozv dark bees-
wax and scrape or shred it into a tin, then
cover with turpentine and allow to stand until
dissolved; or dissolve over a closed fire—it
is very inflammable. Stir to a smooth mass
and allow to cool in a wide, shallow tin.
Apply to the floor with a folded piece of
flannel, rub in well and then polish with a
fresh woollen cloth either by hand or by tacking
the cloth over an old hair broom slightly
padded. The floor improves with polishing,
and this is one of the best of the old treat-
ments: it is also a preservative for the wood
and a good insecticide.
* * $ #
How to clean and preserve a leather jacket
of goatskin ?■ —3405.
To clean, if very dirty, wash in warm soapy
water containing one dessertspoon of ammonia
to the gallon, rinse plentifully in cold water,
and allow to become almost dry. Then rub
and work in the hands; and, if very stiff, lay it
over a folded cloth and pat with a flat piece of
wood. Finally press with a very cool iron and
brush out the hair if it has been left on. If
the coat is not very dirty, it may be sponged
with warm ammonia water instead of being
washed. To preserve, let it dry and then brush
well before being put away at any time. Hang
on a hanger, or fold with pieces of clean paper
between the folds, and add a few mothballs.
* * * *
A good recipe for axle grease ? —3693.
(1) Melt, but avoid boiling, 161 b. of fat and
dissolve in it 2£lb. of sugar of lead. Add
31b. black antimony and stir constantly until
cold. (2) Fat camphor loz. and black-
lead Rub the camphor in a mortar to
a paste with a small portion of the fat, then
add the remaining fat and blacklead and mix
thoroughly.
* * * *
In the fifth Test of the last Australian XI in
England (1) how long did Hutton bat in scoring
364 runs, (2) what were the bowling averages
of the Australians, and (3) who were the
umpires ? —3985.
(1) Hutton batted 13 hours 20min. for 364
runs. (2) Australian bowling figures were:
Overs. Maidens. Runs. Wickets.
Waite 72 16 150 1
McCabe .. 38 8 85 0
O’Reilly .. 85 26 178 3
F’wood-Smith 87 11 298 1
Barnes .. 38 3 84 1
Hassett 13 2 52 0
Bradman 3 2 6 0
(3) F. Chester and F. Walden.
Does Anybody Know?
Particulars .of any one-act play competitions
at present open to Australian authors? —4076.
Brief Answers.
F J.A.: Pure-bred fox-terriers are born with
long tails and should be docked when they
are a few days old. Take the tail between
the fingers of the left hand, pull the skin
towards the rump, then, with a pair of sharp
scissors sterilised in boiling water, cut off about
one-third and pull the skin away from the rump
to cover the wound. Do not let the mother see
the operation, but return the pups as soon as it
is over... .R.F.M.V.: Sailing vessels generally
load grain and leave S.A. ports from January
to May, but Crosby Mann, Adelaide agents,
advise that the s.v. Killoran is still loading at
Port Lincoln. They also advise that applica-
tions frequently received from aspiring pas-
sengers, apprentices and employees are all con-
sidered, but that there is little opportunity tor
employment except as an apprentice... .E.L.D.:
Know of no Australian cigarette manufacturers
who insert cards in cigarette packets....
G.L.Y.: Vacancies for licensed plumbers in
N.S.W. depend upon the building trade, which
has fluctuated considerably during the past 12
months. In normal times, however, there is a
scarcity of good plumbers. Submit your request
again, giving particulars of your brothers
qualifications... .D.D.: Full particulars will be
found in the Australian Authors and Artists
Handbook.. . .D.H.M.L.: Procedure would be
to draw up policy and constitution, enlist
sufficient sympathisers to form provisional com-
mittee, then make nation-wide appeal for sup-
porters. There would need to be branches
in each Federal electorate, and State and
Federal executives. Impossible to estimate
but it would run into thousands... .J.T.: “The
Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse” was
shown at the Strand Theatre, Melbourne, in
1921. The leading players were Rudolph
Valentino and Alice Terry, and the story was
set in Arabia. Supporting feature was the
Laurel and Hardy comedy “Mud and Sand.
H.W.T.: Gordon and Gotch (Austral-
asia), Barrack-street, Sydney... .A. 8.: Need
to know approximate year of arrival before
beginning search... .F.D.J.: For mange in
horses, a dressing of lime-sulphur should be
applied twice weekly. Take lOoz. of unslaked
lime and 12oz. of sulphur, mix to a paste
with water and add one gallon of water; boil
for two to three hours ,until the liquid turns
greenish-yellow; allow sediment to settle, then
pour off the liquid and make up to four gal-
lons K.R.A.: Cow is probably affected with
chronic mammitis. Strip completely every four
hours, or more frequently if possible and, after
stripping, massage the udder for 10 minutes,
using a lather of soap to reduce friction.
Always milk the affected cow last, and wash
the hands in a disinfectant solution after milk-
ing. Collect the milk from the affected quarter
in an old bucket and burn or bury deeply—
it probably contains virulent bacteria... .J.D.C.:
Mutton-bird oil can be obtained from H. J.
Holloway, Holloway’s Private Mail Bag, Lady
Barron, Flinders Island, Tasmania... .J.D.S.:
A. E. Smith, 9 Hunter-street, Sydney, could
supply the information... .J. 8.: (1) No, but it
should be widely advertised. (2) It is not
illegal, but undesirable, as proof of the change
might in the future cause considerable expense.
(3) The deed poll is registered with the Regis-
trar of Deaths and is available at any time to
show the change and when made.... J.C.F.: It
does not give the trustees power to vary the
provisions of the will, unless so provided by the
testator, nor does it give them any right to
dictate to the beneficiaries the form in which
their several shares under the will shall be
taken. The co. has no power to invest the
capital unless clothed by the will with power
to do so M.R.: Not if the properties in
question have been legally conveyed to the
sons of the first wife. They then cease to be
parts of the testator’s estate, but duty on their
value at his death might be levied. Should
the second wife or any of the children of the
second marriage survive him and be in necessi-
tous circumstances they could apply to the
Equity Court for provision to be made for
them out of the estate A.H.: The
purchase of the practice does not automatically
transfer the power of attorney. You are not
bound to accept the solicitor’s proposal. You
could inform him that you propose to call
tenders for the purchase of the place. If you
left the sale in his hands he would be entitled
to commission... .0.W.5.: It is in the nature
of a contract and may be traced back to
classical days. It is binding to the extent that
either party may sue the other in the event
of its violation for breach of promise to marry,
and recover damages... .0.W.H.: If you agreed
with the storekeeper that “all laybys more than
three months old shall be returned to stock
and deposits confiscated” you must abide by
that agreement, however foolish you were to
so agree, unless you are prepared to test its
fairness in a Court of Equity. If the article
was sold by accident you could claim not only
the refund of deposits but any loss you suf-
fered through the identical goods not being
forthcoming 8.R.: Manual of Elementary
Drill and the Infantry Section Leading are
suitable manuals, which may be obtained from
Dymock’s or Angus and Robertson, of Sydney.
R.B.: (1) There are two companies manufac-
turing lead pencils in Australia, the Columbia
Pencil and Crayon Co. and the Royal
Pencil Co. (Aust.), both of Sydney. (2)
Difficult to say, but it is probable that the
timber and the graphite, at least, are imported.
(3) There is keen competition between the
imported article and the Australian Product. The
Australian market is worth about £lOO,OOO p.a.
J.S.M.: Place the garment in warm but not
hot water, and when it has soaked for an hour
rub the stains gently. Remove to another tub
of warm water containing one teaspoon of
ammonia to every gallon of water, add a little
flaked soap previously dissolved in hot water,
and wash in the ordinary way. Rinse in warm
v/ater. If the suit cannot be washed, sponge
the stains with rather warm water and dry
with a warm iron applied over a piece of cloth.


Bali —Singapore
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. ''MARELLA'' and m.v. "MERKUR"
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE 87901
e
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE. FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
100 YEARS OF HISTORY
m m
mm m
m $
t*\k v::
Is
i V :
a
f.>'f
• X
*.'*&#?&s!
m
(yyyyivwt OJQOQOfloaaay ■ MflflSO (v ' , vy.
0 11
SII
jSSK
AMUSEM ENT
fife
MUSIC
"flu
*rn
SPORT
COME OVER, TOO
AND CELEBRATE
NEXT November the Greatest Exhibition ever
held in the Southern Hemisphere will be
opened to celebrate the New* Zealand Centennial.
Don’t miss the unique festivities the most spectac-
ular show ever presented south of the line. Visitors
from all parts of the world are already finalising
arrangements to enjoy the holiday of a lifetime.
Remember Wellington is only 2\ days’ sail from
Sydney. Send to-day for the beautifully illustrated
brochure featuring the attractions of this stupendous
enterprise. Address: New Zealand Government
Tourist Bureau, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane or all
travel agents.
WELLINGTON
QV
N
939
TO
TRANSPORTATIO
INDUSTRY
APL
1940
- . 4
HE
IS\T
TO
HP, y.
0 \N
N
N
Zi&LkW
ceSt®!^
L .«
• • ■"■•••••■ y.jyy •
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally
L.M.: Share your emotion, but not im-
pressed by your method of expressing it....
C. : Story of the Bigwab had us on the tip-
toe of expectation, but fizzled out in the sands
of disappointment... .M.R,: What on earth is
the use of submitting “a few thoughts con-
verted to paper without any pretence of literary
ability”? T.W.: “Regret” is a matter for
it... .J.L.H.: No cheque for “huffy Mrs.
O Duffey T.E.McC.: Love’s not good for
you... .C.D.: Lightweights... .C.H.N.: Pity
you tried to compete with Tennyson in your
first attempt”... .D.E.: Some feeling, but it’s
wooden verse... .L.R.L.: Those “three pairs of
eyes bobbing up all the time are too much
to bear... .N.J.D.: “Stridulous”? ... .G.C.G.:
ui? r , ece ived a letter from me old-time
cobber Joe. ’ Well, when you reply, tell him
„ s . a bore... .0.5.: Glad the orphans are
all right; but you’ll have to make a home for
the poem, t 00... .F.W.L.: Try a women’s
P a P? r - ‘Vi ■**'■ Castles are our beat
JN.M.: The opening is reminiscent of Yeats;
die rest, of Graves’s “Scapegoat”... .B.B.:
Knowledge” says nothing new G. 8.: Frail
blossoms... .8.H.: Might score elsewhere....
A-G.: “The Storm” has blown itself out
D. : It sounded a bit like Browning until
you came to: —
F'ngthened his stride in a way very plain
ihat proved him to be a remarkable horse....
Y T°U- Ve a „ t ? uc ! l of it; but if you meant
Each to himself is right” why not keep an eye
0n typewriter: “Each to himself is eight!”
■ - Another bard off to the bush!
• Gall again, but don’t bring those rats
aa ff skulls from “The Waste Land”... .C.A.:
R-fG v Need to be closer-knit to make
a stoiy ....N.M.K.: Don’t like “Stewed Apple.”
... .K.McK.: Not up.... D.G.: No interest
in Dignity s ablutions... .I.M.McC.: An old
one... .M.S.T.: It’s handled well, but it’s been
as weii handled a thousand times before....
mut'd no W.J.W.: Mechanical
N.H.T.8.: Yours t00....C.C.: No place for
the princess.... W.J.H.: Stodgy... .8.C.: We
can t pen your pigs either... .C.M.: Good
reporting, but it takes more than that to make
a story....W.K.M.: Du11....J.C.D.: If a
yarn s worth telling it doesn’t have to be told
over a whisky and soda in the club C.A S :
Fair in parts, but hardly a story F.W.M :
You re certainly very excited about it all
G.F.P.; Tame... .D. 8.: Yes, but what exactly
is Comparative Love”? N.R.P.: Arrived
with the rain... .G. 8.8.: Now that you’ve got
th a t off your chest, what about attempting a
y a rn? .. . .8.F.L.: All right for a while, but the
finish is dreadful... .N.F.M.: And you’ve
slaughtered what appears to have been a fair
enough p10t... .L.F.M.: Try an English
monthly magazine P.R.N.: Not bad of their
kind, but not for us... .V.F.L.: “I think I’ve
been trying to write a yarn for a record number
of years.” Well, you haven't broken the record
with that J.P.R.: Stories are eliminated as
they are read.... M.T.H.: “Old People” might
stand a chance at half that length U.M.P.:
That con. man has yet to loosen our purse-
strings L.E.K.: Any friend who read that
and remained a friend is worth sticking to
L.D.N.: There’s a yarn there, but the dialogue
js hopeless T.P.O’N.: Pay more attention
to writing... .8.R.D.: Resignedly awaiting
further inflictions... .8.T.H.: Please write on
one side of the paper only, and don’t stitch
the pages together with a sewing machine
T.1.R.: You’d stand a better chance with more
quality and less quantity G.N.R.: A daily
might consider it H.Y.: Has the distinc-
tion of being the worst we’ve read since Christ-
mas'. .. .H.N.E.: Fifteen murders in 3000 words
must be pretty close to a record... .D.P.R.:
A vast improvement on your last effort; come
again... .J.T.C., D.S.D., N.R., F.8.E.: Not
here T.H.: No A.D.: We had an aunt
like that ourselves J.8.M.: You can’t crash
in here with “Shock Tactics” J.H.: That
type of thing’s outdated L.S.: The “Old
Coach” rattles H.H.: Out E.J.8.: Can’t
stand “Snakes”... .C.W.8.: Not for u 5....
J.L.: Idea’s fair enough, but you don’t make
ago of it... .J.W.O’K.: They stumble, all of
them... .K.T.: Try a flapper mag....R.8.:
Just a wisp.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.F.: That traveller has pitched his tent in
our pages before... .C.L.: You have an eye for
decorative effect, but very little sense of humor.
F.W.: Backs of tram tickets next?
M.P.: It was a brave attempt, but it suffered
an inglorious end....T.R.; She shows promise,
but she could do with a course of training....
P.G.: Impossible to sort out the two sides in
your China-Japan cartoon... .C.S.: Art is not
your career; try plumbing K. 8.: Those
aren’t in our line, but y<pu should score 0.W.:
Johnny waiting outside private entrance of
cinema house has had his day H.T.F.: If
you must draw you might take a few lessons
beforehand... .A.8.R.: The four-and-twenty
bluebirds are now chirping in the w.p.b
C. 8.: A quick count revealed a dozen major
errors S.T.: Not impressed by the spectacle
of kangaroo clad in a swagman’s cast-off
clothing... .W.W.A.: Puns, very poor ones,
poorly illustrated T.E.: It might do as a
Christmas card, but it is of no use to us
E.L.: Even the wide range of fancy stipples
failed to interest us J.8.R.: Just another
undistinguished level-crossing joke... BB •
You don’t improve T.M.: Can only con-
clude that your hands were so frozen you
couldn’t handle the pen M.W.W.: Hopeless.
A.A.: Brush drawing is streaky and ugly!
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Devil Fish”: Australia’s John
Macarthur founded the Chinese Navy.
At any rate, the 168-ton brig Elizabeth,
originally a Spanish prize, which he
bought in 1806 for the sandalwood trade
between Fiji anti Canton, became in 1809
the first vessel of European construction
that the Chinese ever had. She was sold
to the Canton authorities, who turned her
into a brig-of-war fitted with 32-pound
guns, manned her with 60 Chinese and 40
Americans from Yankee trading vessels,
renamed her the Tigress and sent her
against the pirates of the West River.
* * * *
Lord Luvus”: Shaw’s new play,
“Geneva,” recently produced in Mel-
bourne, opens in the office of the Inter-
national Institute for Intellectual Co-
operation. It is a branch of the League,
but the League has forgotten its existence.
According to Shaw, this isn’t fiction.
The League had not long been born
when a Frenchman, perceiving that with-
out intellectual co-operation it could
do nothing but practise the old
diplomacy, founded a committee in
Paris. Everyone was delighted, and the
most eminent intellectuals in the world
gave their names as intellectual co-opera-
tors. That is all they did do. The
Frenchman gave a million francs to the
institute, the franc dropped from ten-
pence to twopence, and the institute was
stonybroke at the end of a month.
* * * *
“C. 8.”; The performance in full re-
galia of Coleridge-Taylor’s “Hiawatha,”
which is to be the highlight of the Mel-
bourne Spring Carnival, will possibly
have the services of a Red Indian Paul
Robeson. He is Os-Ke-Non-Ton, chief
of the once-dreaded Mohawks. Chief
Os-etc. has a magnificent voice for the
part of Hiawatha, which he has played
at the Albert Hall, London, annually-for
the past five years, and doesn’t need paint
to show the right tinge of bronze.
* * * *
Westralia’s old friend “Hail Columbia”
Hoover has been waiting six years for a
chance to get home on Roosevelt; and
now he has plenty of chances. He is
demanding a “formal declaration” by
the Government of the United States that
“it will not go to war with any European
nation unless the American continent is
attacked,” and in that he assuredly speaks
for the Republican party, which will
probably elect the next President. One
of the delusions of the Stunt Press, whose
blind faith in the Mighty Soviet Republic
has been so rudely shattered, was that
the U.S.A. would be in with Britain and
France the moment the guns went off.
* * * *
A receiver has been appointed to take
over the management of the Triumph
Co., motor manufacturers, of Coventry,
England. The concern is busy, especially
as orders for aero.-engine parts have been
coming from the Government; but the
appointment of a receiver, which fol-
lows Lord Nuffield’s acquisition of the
Riley concern in October last year, shows
that financial success doesn’t always go
hand in hand with the production of
good-quality motor-cars. There is really
a great gulf between the rich and the
poor in the motor-manufacturing busi-
ness. And often the secret of success
centres in that much-abused word
“organisation.”
* * # *
Hartley Grattan, who came to Aus-
tralia with the frank intention of writing
us up, and scolded us for not being
Roosevelt Democrats or something,
wasn’t back on his native soil long be-
fore he was noosed by Cupid. (Somehow
it seems more applicable that Cupid in
America should do his work with a lasso.)
The bride is a Philadelphia girl.
Production of diamonds in S. Africa
during 1938 was the best for the last six
years, the output Deing 1,238,608 carats,
valued at £3,496,243, compared with
1,030,433 carats, valued at £3,444,678, for
1937. But sales, 518,744 carats, compared
with 949,113 carats for 1937, were the
lowest for 25 years. Industrial diamonds
accounted for about two-thirds of the en-
tire output, but only for one-quarter of
total value. Sales of gem diamonds de-
pend upon the public demand for
luxuries


FIFTY YEARS AGO
AUSTRALIAN LIFE IN 1889, AS REFLECTED IN JULY
NUMBERS OF “THE BULLETIN,” WITH 1939 ADDITIONS.
LONG ago The Bulletin gave up
publishing advertisements for lot-
teries and “art unions.” It circu-
lates in all six States, in two of
which lotteries and “art unions” are
illegal; and even States which run lot-
teries ban lotteries run by other States as
“foreign.” In the ’eighties these fine
points of lottery law had not cropped up,
and The Bulletin had other ideas ; any-
way, the paper carried a lot of such
advertising.
There were first “ ‘TattersaH's’ Mon-
ster Consultations, conducted on all the
principal races throughout the year.”
“Full particulars” were to be found in
“Evening News” Brevities, and those who
didn’t read “Evening News” Brevities
could write to “Tattersall, care of Geo.
Adams, Pitt-street, Sydney.”
DEAKIN IN 1889.
Geo. Adams has been dead many
years, but he yet speaketh —a should-be-
obvious reference to Adams’s Hotel.
Then there were “Adam Bede’s Bene-
volent Consultations, twenty years before
the public,” and one-tenth of A.B. s
commission “devoted to charity.” Adam
Bede had a “consultation” on the July
Handicap, run at Rosehill, 4000 sub-
scribers at £1 each: first horse, £1600;
second horse, £600; third horse, £4OO ;
starters, £6OO ; non-starters, £BOO. Mr.
Bede claimed to have “the only fair
method of drawing: the names of the
holders of the winning tickets will on no
account whatever be divulged until after
the races have been run.”
And Mr. John Sands, of the new Fine
Art Gallery, 322 George-street, had
“arranged to dispose of his very large
and valuable collection of high-class en-
gravings, etchings, photogravures, etc.,
by means of an art union, officially sanc-
tioned by the Hon. the Attorney-
General.” Five thousand tickets at a
guinea, and 25 per cent, of the proceeds
to go to the Hospital for Sick Children,
Glebe Point. And the Sandhurst
Mechanics’ Institute announced an “art
union” which guaranteed a “Fortune for
10s. 6d.” First prize was £lOOO, second
price £5OO, and third £200; and there
were 597 other prizes ; total value, £2705.
“Art unions” were propping the decay-
ing grandeur of Sandhurst.
Sydney, in addition to Geo. Adams
and Adam Bede (there were no Eves in
the business), had a Square and Compass
Club ; “Motto, ‘Fair and Square.’ ” The
Square and Compass Club invited “an
unlimited number of members at ss.
each,” promising them 50 p.c. for the
first horse, 30 p.c. for the second horse
and 20 p.c. for the third horse. It drew
attention to “the dividends we paid on
the Doncaster Handicap: Russley, £95
3s. 6d.; Plutarch, £7 2s. 9d.; Lady Kings-
boro’, £l2 3s. lOd.” The Square and
Compass Club really ran a blind tote.
There were other “clubs” in the same
business ; one paid £122 10s. for ss. on
the A.J.C. Winter Stakes. The very be-
lated introduction of legalised racecourse
totes extinguished them all.
Those were the days of Carrington
Handicaps, and black Charlie Samuels
was king of the peds. At the Chicago
Cigar Store, 348 George-street, Sydney,
our grandfathers could get “£lOO to no-
thing.” There was a trifling preliminary
formula; grandfather had to subscribe
ss, to a “ ‘consultation’ on the Carring-
ton Handicap,” whereupon each sub-
scriber selecting a placed man “would
be entitled to select a double, Caulfield
and Melbourne Cup, at £lOO to nothing.
Chicago Cigar Store dividends on the lasi
Carrington Handicap had panned out at
“£5 11s. F. Martineer and £3 13s. 6d.
T. Bishop.”
Even then there were punters with a
lingering prejudice against putting their
money on anything that talked. For
such the Chicago Cigar Store had “ ‘con-
sultations’ open on the Moorefield races,
the Hurdle and Steeple at Randwick, the
V.R.C. G.N. Hurdle and Steeple, and all
forthcoming events.”
People were beginning to sniff at Car-
ringtons. “Sydney pedestrianism, The
Bulletin said, “must soon appear on the
track with a covering no more ample
than a Biblical figleaf, if a new phase of
‘cronk’ running be not put down. ‘Load-
ing,’ a dodge played-out at the other
end of the world, is now practised in
Australia. This consists in putting an
insole of lead in the ped.’s shoes, a heavy
belt filled with the same metal round his
waist and stitching it wherever it can be
concealed in his running costume. One
of the men most extensively backed for
a recent big handicap carried in this
manner many pounds of deadweight. By
this means a runner can try his utmost
without having the least chance of win-
ning, and the ground officials can do no-
thing. It is to prevent ‘loading’ that
Sheffield peds. are forced to run in the
scanty clothing which Hutchens once or
twice adopted while he was here.”
But the Turf was flourishing. Donald
Wallace and James White were among
the principal owners, and it was said that
Wallace, who had recently become a Vic-
torian M.L.C., contemplated sending
Carbine and Mentor to England. White,
for his part, was breeding horses to Eng-
lish time, having Epsom Derby aspira-
tions. There were already Australian-
bred horses in England; Ringmaster, for
one. Ringmaster had started in the
Ascot Stakes, and The Bulletin opined
that “if he was fit and doing his level
best, his performance” didn’t “make it
look as though any good Australian horse
could cut down a field in England by
simply pursuing his native tactics of rac-
ing from start to finish.”
In July, 1889, “Septimus Miller and his
brethren, already steeped in affluence,
brought off a big coup at the V.R.C.
meeting. The Miller division—-which is
mainly a family affair —backed Redleap
right out for the Grand National Hurdle
Race to win them more money than they
ever tried to win at one pop before, and
when Eaglet annexed the Steeple the
‘double’ was put on the ‘books’ with a
vengeance. With Renmark and Reny,
the wealthy firm also got there four
races out of the ten contested. The un-
usual dearness of the Redleap certainty
was attested to by Corythus, who won a
race, when no Redleap was in the field,
with ridiculous ease.”
“The new Epsom racecourse, likely to
be a worthy rival to Flemington and
Caulfield in the estimation of Melbourne
‘sports,’ ” had recently been “opened with
a considerable flourish of trumpets.
Epsom is close to Mordialloc, a station
within easy special train distance of the
glorious smells of Melbourne, and the
new club seems to have fixed things up
on scientific principles regardless of ex-
pense. It is rather a nice place to be in.
when you can keep on backing winners
—good course, elegant stand, wide ex-
panse of sloping lawn and everything
‘ong sweet,’ as they say in the highei
circles. The club started pluckily in the
matter of stakes, five races being worth
over £lOOO all told; £5OO went with
the Mordialloc Cup. It was annexed
by a good-looking three-year-old in
Knight of the Garter, who started at long
odds and won easily from a number of
distinguished animals desirous of losing
easily. In fact, only the inferior cattle
were backed for any money.
Even in that day Melbourne racing
clubs gave bigger prizemoney than Syd-
ney racing clubs, and Melbourne foot-
ball crowds were greater than Sydney
football crowds. “More than 20,000 lost
souls rolled up to a match between South
Melbourne and Carlton on the M.C.C.
ground. After the former had won
10,000 excited admirers (ladies ex-
cepted) spat for joy, and said they were
‘certain South ’ud put ’em through
again,’ while the other 10,000 said ‘Carl-
ton’ll W ell do ’em next time,’ and
spat for luck.”
“The most popular footballer in Mel-
bourne” was “the famous Dummy Muir--
deaf and dumb, recognised by his strange
head of thick hair, quite grey. It looks
like a cap at a little distance, but he never
wears a cap in the field. Dummy is a
splendid player, with Fitzroy—always
generous, gentlemanly and disinterested.
He is tall and thin.”
The Maoris, fresh from their 1888-89
tour of England, were playing in Sydney.
Their exhibition in their first match
against N.S.W. on the Association
ground was “disappointing,” in view of
“their British victories” and the inferior-
calibre of their opponents—not in top
form and “unquestionably weak, any-
how.” Moreover, they “seemed a pretty
bad-tempered lot, and cursed each other
freely during the game; cursed the
umpire also a good deal, and the other
side a little.”
During the first match, Maoris v.
N.S.W., “a little incident occurred. One
of the Maoris kept forcing his way, when
offside, through the N.S.W. men in the
scrimmages. At last a forward told him
not to do it, and the Maori replied that
he would please himself. Before long
the Maori came through as usual, and
was ‘kneed’ in the jaw, whereupon he hit
the N.S.W. forward with his fist, and the
white hit him on the ear ; and then peace
was made and the game went on.”
In the second match, “the N.S.W. men
got a touch-down which was allowed, to
the great surprise of the onlookers. The
decision was wrong, and the Maoris were
tremendously disgusted, and threatened
to leave the field. A goal was kicked
under protest, and the game went on,
but some of the Maoris were so sulky at
half-time that it seemed quite on the
cards they would refuse to play any
more. However, they came out for the
second half, and soon after beginning
Otway kicked a goal for N.S.W. Then
the blood of a thousand generations of
warrior ancestors boiled up in the New
Zealanders, and they simply charged the
Sydney team down and went through
them as if they were paper, winning by
16 points to 12.”
“Cauboy”: According to Frank Neil,
Australians have “inferiority complexes,
inasmuch as they always conclude that
an artist comes here only when he is
played out and has exhausted his over-
seas public. But aren’t they sometimes
right? When Little Tich came to Mel-
bourne his audiences refused to respond.
They yawned at his jokes, booed his
slapstick fooling and remained glum even
when he came out dressed as a dame and
fell for the fourteenth time over his train.
They thought he was imitating the old
stuff of some suburban comedian,
whereas the poor fellow was actually
repeating his own original compositions.
Finally they started throwing pennies on
the stage, the worst insult that can be
hurled at a histrion. Tich burst into
tears, broke his contract and shook the
dust ’of Australia for ever off the long
boots which had been copied ad lib. by
local performers.
“GREEK GODS“ 1889 VINTAGE.
They were “one of the regular attractions of the Manly pier.”


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
tor (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
For dealing thoughtfully with one aspect of a question hitherto shirked by
politicians but increasingly discussed by the people, a Westralian writer is awarded
the £3 3s. this week, and will be paid space rates as well.
Wage for Age
Australia has experimented with
“wage-for-age” legislation, and, partly as
a result, has a growing number of junior
employees and a decreasing number of
seniors in positions.
Is it that the annual increases are too
big, or are they badly spread, or are they
based wrongly?
Can anyone logically say why a boy-
man at 21 is worth twice as much on
the same work as he was at 20? Apply-
ing the same principle: A man buys a
pound of canary seed for 6d. from a girl
or boy of 14 behind a counter; should
he happen to be served by a man of 45
is a payment of 9d. asked?
A farmer of 24 years receives 2s. a
bushel for his wheat; do we pay a 32-
year-old farmer 35.? If not, why do we
pay on age for one thing and not on
another?
Most of the higher rates terminate at
21 years. Why at 21? Is a man at his
zenith at 21 —does he never learn any-
thing more afterwards?
Why not pay for the goods and ser-
vices at the rate for the services supplied
and not for the age of the supplier?
We seem to be paying a rotten price, in
a rotten period, for a rotten “principle.”
—Wageationist (W.A.).
“Wageationist”—placed first—is T. F.
(or F. F. or F. Y.) Cross, Y.M.C.A., Perth,
W.A. The initials baffled all hands.
Housing
One of my most vivid childhood mem-
ories is of peering through the garden
railings of a cottage that stood on the
outskirts of the Scottish city in which
I was born. There were children play-
ing in the garden, and I envied them the
freedom and privacy they enjoyed.
Like most of the working- and lower-
middle-class families in that city, we
lived in a flat—tenements, we called the
grim barracks where a number of fami-
lies shared the stairway, the laundry and
the square of paved drying-court that
was for some reason called “the green.”
We played about the streets and closes,
my mates and I. Parks there were, of
course, but there also were gravelled
paths and “Keep Off the Grass” notices.
A trip to the park was a sedate tour of
inspection, not a frolic.
When just 25 years ago my family
came to Australia, I was bewildered and
delighted to find that nearly every home
I saw was a cottage, complete with gar-
dens, lawns and verandahs. The place
seemed like a paradise.
To-day in my native city they are pull-
ing down the tenements as fast as they
can. In the last year or so the Town
Council has built more than 1500 cot-
tages for workingmen’s homes.
To-day, in Sydney, flats are being built
almost everywhere—and the Sydney Gov-
ernment has erected, and is proud of
having erected, a modern streamlined
version of the tenement I hated.
Now I wonder which housing scheme
is on the wrong track? — Taysider
(N.S.W.).
Council Tactics
This has been election day in our ward
and candidates have been promising us
everything, even reduction of rates. Cer-
tainly that would be very welcome, but,
thinking over the way we see municipal
matters managed, it will more likely be
an increase instead of a reduction.
No one could run a private business
on the council’s methods and make a suc-
cess of it.
In our district it takes three men to
sweep the street. One sits in state in the
dray and drives a few yards to where
another is ready to shovel the sweepings
into the cart after they have been swept
up by a third.
When the trees in the street need weed-
ing around, one man does the weeding
but leaves the heap beside the tree till an-
other arrives with a dray—usually about
a week later —and carts the heaps away.
Sometimes, before the second man ar-
rives, the rain comes and washes all the
heaps tinder the culvert in the street.
Result —a blocked drain and a flooded
roadway.
If these culverts had been regularly
cleaned they might not have become com-
pletely blocked by the debris, but this
on top of old accumulations results in
disaster. So along comes another gang
of six or eight men, and a hole is dug
in the bitumen roadway and the drain
cleared.
Shall we get our rates lowered? Not
till councils have to make their business
pay like any private concern. — Cown-
sell (S.A.).
Penny Wise?
“AJ.B.” (B. 28/6/’39) is likely to wait
a long time before he sees a smaller
penny. The size and weight of the
humble “brown” is fixed by stronger
laws than the whim of the Treasury.
To reduce the size of the penny to
that of the shilling would cost the tele-
phone department more than the mint
saved in copper—every public telephone
in Australia would have to be altered to
take the new-size pennies. After that
would come all the weighing-, peanut- and
chocolate-machines, not ’to mention the
penny peepshows on the beaches.
Then there are the numberless slot
latches in railway stations and private
firms. Add the cost of altering the penny
gas meters and the saving of a few tons
of copper becomes negligible. Anyway,
the mint can make £450 worth of pennies
from a ton of metal costing about £55. —
Denarius (N.S.W.).
An Italian Town in Australia
Ingham is situated on the northern
railway line, 67 miles from Townsville
(Q.)» in the centre of a sugarcane-farm-
ing district.
The following are a few statistics of
the nationalities and occupations of the
people of the district:
Population: About 10,000. Nationali-
ties of population: Italian about 6000,
others 4000. Canecutters, total 945:
Italian 681, British 240, Yugoslavs 24.
Cane-farmers: Italian 358, British 124,
other nationalities 20. Bakers: Italian 11,
British 2. Barbers: Italian 7, British 3.
Bootmakers: Italian 4. Restaurant-
keepers and fruitshop-keepers: Greek 6,
Italian 4. Hotelkeepers: British 6, Italian
2, Greek 1. Taxi-drivers: British 4,
Italian 4.
When I arrived in the district 20 years
ago there were only about two Italians
in business occupations in town. “The
drift to the city” evidently also applies to
the Italian.
Answers to the following question
would be interesting: What will the town
and district be like in ten years’ time as
regards nationalities? Old Resident
(Q.). ______
Still Pioneering
“Young ’Un” (B. 21/6/’39) does less
than justice to the younger generation as
pioneers. In the north-west of this con-
tinent properties are still being worked
by sons and grandsons of the pioneers.
Moreover, they have to deal with con-
ditions that their parents did not dream
of. Costs, through tariffs, increased
taxation, arbitration, navigation and
social welfare laws, etc., are from 100 to
250 p.c. higher than in 1912, while the
prices of wool and other outback pro-
ducts —except gold—are substantially the
same. Also, the last five years have seen
a drought that has taken half the stock
and two-thirds of the revenue. It is a
stout heart that continues under these
conditions.
And young men are still pioneering the
lands further out. Conditions and the
poorness of what country is left are very
much against them. Even so, a few do
succeed.
These people shun publicity, and in
any case cannot command the public
attention that war scares, Test matches
and glamor-girls do.
“Young ’Un” and his friend need not
be afraid. The young men are there,
doing their job quietly and unobtrusively.
—Another Young 'Un (W.A.).
“Self-Pronouncing Dictionaries”
Thanks to P. Fortescue (B. 24/5/’39)
for pointing out my erroneous use of the
conjunction “whilst,” but greater
familiarity with publishers’ blurb might
have helped him to recognise the source
of “that queer phrase ‘Self-pronouncing
dictionary.’ ”
Before crossword puzzles were in-
vented, dictionaries were used as an aid
to cultural development, and publishers’
announcements read after this style:
“The Student’s English Dictionary, ety-
mological and self-pronouncing, with
appendix containing words and phrases
from the Latin, Greek and modern
foreign languages.” “Self-pronouncing”
usually meant that the correct pronun-
ciation was indicated, not by the use of
phonetic script, but by accent marks and
vowel signs over each word given in
heavy type.
The title page of my most-recently-
acquired dictionary informs me that it
contains “illustrations in color and mono-
chrome, glossaries of technical and
sporting terms, events of importance in
English history and a very comprehen-
sive list of alternative words in use in
crosswords.” Dictionary-users nowadays,
apparently, are not expected to be con-
cerned with the origin or the pronuncia-
tion of a word ; so “self-pronouncing”
has been dumped by the publishers, along
with “etymological.” My critic, I am
afraid, has shown more zeal than dis-
cernment in questioning the rather obvi-
ous quotation of publishers’ jargon.—
D. J. G. (Vic.).
The Grain and the Chaff
Too many men holding land in the
N. S. Wales wheatbelt are wheat-
growers, not farmers. They cannot
think beyond bushels and the price
thereof as grain. Yet here and there,
both on the good country of the
north-west and on the marginal areas of
the south-west, you will find men who
are proving that wheat-farming can be
made to pay, provided a true farming
practice is followed. These men use
sheep, pigs, turkeys, poultry as sidelines ;
they have shown over and over again
that wheat sold as pork or poultry brings
a high price per bushel; that income
from their sidelines at least meets the
cost of wheat-production, thus leaving
the money received for the actual harvest
as clear profit.
These men apply commonsense prin-
ciples and concern themselves, not with
sowing as many acres as possible to get
as much wheat as possible, but with mak-
ing. every acre produce to its utmost an
income composed of returns for wheat,
wool, fat lambs, pigs, etc. Their machin-
ery is efficient and cared for; their stock
live well; they will not allow erosion to
rob them, nor will they themselves rob
the soil of its fertility without making
every effort to restore it.
They are quiet men generally, making
farming their lifework, and determined
to leave the land better than they found
it. You will not find their names among
the vociferous clamorers for bounties,
subsidies, stabilisation. But they can be
found. Before they find a means of pay-
ing out tax money to help men who won’t
help themselves, Menzies and Mair
should have a quiet chat with the real
farmers of the wheat country. — Ben
Cubbin (N.S.W.).
Let’s Hear More from Leaders
One of my grievances is that our real
leaders in the way of bankers and com-
pany directors have so little to say to
the ordinary man and woman. They
seldom trouble to explain anything or
make a serious attempt to reach the
workers with a message, and thus leave
the field open to political quacks.
If they want an example, let them
look at our various Departments of Agri-
culture, which are always explaining and
trying to show the primary producers how
to farm more economically and profit-
ably. These departments don’t expect
the other fellow always to come to them
for information or to hunt for it in the
pages of reports which are circulated only
among the shareholders of some particu-
lar concern.
Papers print all too little of remarks
like those of James Elder, quoted in
B 7/6/’39, yet by reading them one gets
a clear and unbiased view of our financial
situation.
An outstanding example of what 1
refer to occurred when Niemeyer came
here a few years ago. As one of the
world’s leading financiers, he knew quite
well that the sacrifices which he advo-
cated would not, and could not, fall on
one section of the community alone—
sooner or later the inescapable laws of
economics would ensure that everyone
bore his share.
But Niemeyer didn’t take the trouble to
explain this ; he merely made a few an-
nouncements about what should be done
and did all his talking to business and
banking heads behind closed doors. As
a result, the greater proportion of voters
rebelled against what appeared to be a
singling out of one section to bear the
brunt of the trouble, and voted windbags
like Lang into office. They received lots
of promises from politicians of that type,
but nothing else, and in the end they
saw that Niemeyer was right.
If our real leaders would only talk
more to us and explain why certain things
have to be done or cannot be done, fewer
incompetents would reach high office by
way of the ballot boxes and there’d be
less political quackery in the running of
this country.—Hal (S.A.).
Propaganda
Whpn are we going to inaugurate a
Ministry of Propaganda?
To-day, in Germany there is a propa-
ganda campaign such as the world has
never before witnessed. The older genera-
tion of Germans does not believe it in
the main, but there is no mistaking what
the German youth thinks about it. What-
ever else this propaganda does it is teach-
ing the young German to love and respect
his country, and he is blindly following
the lead given. He is convinced that the
Nazi form of government is unequalled
in the world’s history.
We are sometimes told that democracy
is the happiest form of government yet
devised, but a lot of us are asking where
is this democracy? The great mass of
public opinion is inadequately informed
of the real issues involved in the inter-
national conflict.
We should set up a Ministry of Propa-
ganda to enlighten our peoples politically
and educate them to believe that demo-
cratic rule is the best. A pamphlet may
save more lives than a bomb can take. —
Ell (N.S.W.).
R.A.A.F. Training School
It is interesting to note that the Aus-
tralian Government proposes to build at
Wagga (N.S.W.) an Air Force Training
School costing half a million. No doubt
that will be very nice for Wagga, but
isn’t there some doubt about the stability
of Burrinjuck Dam? And hasn’t the
N.S.W. Government prepared plans for
the evacuation of Wagga in the event of
a dam collapse? And in time of war
wouldn’t an enemy do his damnedest to
ensure such a collapse? And then
wouldn’t the A.F. Training School look
damn’ foolish? Or do they propose to
use amphibians at the new school? —
C. G. Salis (N.S.W.).
Truth and Make-believe
In condoning the public’s alleged lack
of appreciation of the realism of Aus-
tralian authors and defending with spirit
the literature of escape, “Father’s Voice”
(B. 5/7/’39) seems a little confused.
The trouble is not so much the realism
as the lack of romance in one’s own
backyard. But Australia is a big coun-
try, and few of us know it all. I have
just read a story of the Queensland coast
by one of our authors. Realism? Yes,
plenty of it; and a more romantic set-
ting could not be wished for.
None will deny the purely escapist
literature its place. Even the cop-chasing-
thug and happy-ever-after stories, when
well done, serve a good purpose in offer-
ing the reader a temporary escape from
Pay for Radio Plays
“Blah” (B. 5/7/’39) and his two
guineas for 2000 words for the A.B.C.
has nothing on one of the wealthy B-
class broadcasting corporations, accord-
ing to my experience. Emulating Alex-
ander (or was it Bernard Shaw?) I
sought new fields to conquer in the field
of radio plays, and my preliminary letter
to the station was promptly answered by
an invitation to visit the local manager
and bring some of my published matter
along. As a result of the interview I was
told that there was an enormous field
for Australian writers in producing serial
plays and short plays for radio-sponsor-
ing on the B-class circuits.
I was so interested in absorbing in-
structions that I didn’t pay much atten-
tion at the time to the ratio of the pay
to the volume of work, but when I had
spent a couple of week-ends on the job
and had been told by the local manager
that neither he nor his producer could
find a fault with my work I pointed out
that a guinea was out of the question.
The plays were so good that he was
delighted, could not fault them even from
a mechanical point of view, he had said
before he heard the price. But when I
put a fee of three guineas each on what
The Bulletin would pay six guineas
minimum for if used the deal was com-
pletely off.
I’d like someone to tell me if there is
any Jew clothing-maker cutting the stitch-
stitch-stitch price lower in proportion
than that.-
HORSEFACE (N.S.W.).


the worries of a hard, cold world. In
the cinema and radio, however, this class
of literature has two serious rivals whicn
have already undermined its position. As
dope they are more potent and mucn
more easily taken. The escapist writer
with an eye to the future might do well
to concentrate on drama for the ial ies
and the radio.
On the other hand, realism, the litera-
ture of truth, is unassailable and always
will be. And it is not limited to the stark
and sordid, but can be, and is, as wide
and limitless as truth itself I would sug-
gest to “Father’s Voice that his liteiaiy
gods, Dickens, Zola andi O. Henry,haye
prevailed not because of their facility in
yarn-spinning but because of their reai-
-1 And as for excitement and stimulation,
the kick to be got from the yarn
at its best is tame compared with the
excitement of discovering some new facet
of truth in the theme, or plot, or turn
of phrase, perhaps, of a piece of realism.
And, what is more, the reading public is
becoming alive to this very fact. Indi-
cations are that Australian authors who
have something to say and know how to
say it are getting their public with them,
even though the search for truth may lead
them into some disturbing places.
T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Plucky City-dwellers
Hats off to Australia’s city-dwellers
for enduring discomfort and hardship
with uncomplaining fortitude! I 11^ 1 *?
to occupy the suburban home ot Bris-
bane friends while they were on a cruise,
we looked forward to a complete change
and rest from the old farm. The change
we certainly got.
On the Saturday afternoon after our
arrival the combined sink and bath waste-
pipe plugged up. The City Council for-
bids any but a licensed drainer to touch
such things, and, anyhow, there were no
tools available. We did the best we u l a
with buckets and tins until one could be
got on Monday. The 1.d., a severe man
of Scottish descent, accused us of having
put tea-leaves down it, but could find
none, and we hadn’t, anyway. The real
trouble was a small spanner, which he
claimed as his property, mysteriously
missing after a former job on the prem-
ises. Clearly he suspected us of having
purloined it and hidden it in the pipe.
On the Tuesday, the second coldest day
on record, at 6.30 p.m. the electric light-
ing, heating and cooking system chose to
blow its main fuse. Only a certified elec-
trician may meddle with electrical holies,
and repeated telephoning failed to locate
one. We bought some candles, consumed
the —luckily just-cooked —dinner, and
went to bed to keep warm. Before the
electrician arrived next morning we
cooked breakfast over a fire under the
house—it was raining hard —made from
newspapers and a packing-case split with
a borrowed axe. The electrician was
also very severe, and announced that we
were lucky not to have had a call from
the fire brigade and a £2 2s. fine.
At home we seldom wake before six*
in winter, but in the rigorous city the
milkman was yodelling and clattering
cans on the verandah before 5 a.m. At
six, the baker stamped heavily up the
steps, usually singing. By seven, the
grocer’s lad was banging on the back
door for orders, whistling. From then
on to dark a procession of salesmen,
canvassers, rat-, gas-, electric- and sani-
tary-inspectors, and people wanting to
know where Mrs. Blobbs lived in the
street kept the door-bell busy.
Decent meat, real milk, bread which
did not seem to have been mixed with
either glue or sawdust, according as to
whether it was supposed to be white or
wholemeal, and fresh fruit were unobtain-
able-—at least as we recognise such
articles. Back again to assured warmth,
light, quiet, peace and eatable food, we
realise how well off we are compared
with the lot of our hardy, uncomplaining
city friends. But —we do admire their
pluck! — Bull-ant Bill (Q.).
Sex Troubles
I hate to shatter fond illusions, but
having been a student of sex troubles
as affecting crime and other disasters
from the press-box in the metropolitan
courts I can’t keep quiet any longer in
this O.F.M. argument. What everybody
so far seems to have overlooked is that
the less a child of either sex knows about
sexual matters the less it yearns to know
and the less harm the secret will do him
or her. This applies well into adoles-
cence, too.
I have brought up a family of both
sexes on that principle, and it has worked
like a charm, but I have an acquaintance
who has taught everything he can about
sex to his boy, who is now only four
years or so. The father is highly edu-
cated, a good citizen and neighbor, and
his wife likewise. But as a result of
having explained to him where the babies
come from, and seeing his parents in the
nude, etc., Baby Boy was caught in what
the police would have no trouble in prov-
ing an indecent assault on a female of
his own age, with a look of “intelligent
curiosity” in his baby eyes and a set of
determination to his baby chin. He-man
stuff; but if he were a little older it
would land him in gaol. It was not the
first time either, for it seems that he,
having gained knowledge, has an earnest
desire to put it into practice as far as he
can understand it and to impart it to
others.
I believe I was able to give the father
a view of the effect of sex education on
a baby’s mind which will result in a
change for the kid. If it doesn’t,-I can
see that boy in after life in the dock or
the witness-box mixed up with one of
the sex-trouble cases which are so closely
associated with crime.— Father’s Voice
(N.S.W.).
Whilst agreeing with “C.H.” (B.
28 / 6 / ’39) that the job of teaching sex to
children is for the parents themselves,
his talk about watchful parents “project-
ing” their own complexes, fixations, re-
pressions and suchlike on their unfortu-
nate offspring is just so much nonsense
to me.
Give me watchful parents every
time ; they are at least not too lax or
indifferent to try to bring their families
up to be decent, useful members of the
community in which they live, and, if
they don’t overdo the job, usually suc-
ceed.
My pioneer parents raised a brood of
six boys and six girls without the aid of
church, Sunday-school, Havelock Ellis,
Freud or D. H. Lawrence, and, although
I say it as shouldn’t, Australia is the
better for every one of them. Now mar-
ried and raising their families on the
formula set by the old people, they are
getting the same result —good citizens.
They simply set us a high standard of
morals and integrity, a creed that “any-
thing unchristian is wrong,” and saw to
it that we lived up to them.
We were never told any lies or in any
way given to understand that there was
any shame to be attached to sex matters ;
consequently the subject was not even
interesting. The unhealthy curiosities
of the children of our time were regarded
with complete indifference. But of repres-
sions we had plenty, and were all the
better for them. We were constantly
watched and corrected, we were expected
to, and did, go to our life partners with
clean moral records ; anything less was
unthinkable. We were encouraged to
read good literature, any trash being
burnt on sight.
These repressions caused many an in-
ward rage, but never lessened the respect
and affection we held for our parents,
and certainly helped in the building of
character. Looking back and judging by
results in my own growing family, I
have come to the conclusion that, to the
wise parent who sees to it that a clean,
healthy mind develops along with a clean,
healthy body, sex ceases to be a problem
at all.—L. M. (Vic.).
Science
What benefit have we derived from
science? Apart from any knowledge
gained by the medical profession, science
almost amounts to a curse to the present
generation. Though it may be saving
hundreds of lives in one direction, it
destroys just as many in another.
We'have the aeroplane. Apart from
the fact that we get our mail a bit
quicker —if we get it at all —I fail to see
where the aeroplane has been at all bene-
ficial. On the other hand, as an instru-
ment of war, it maims and destroys with-
out the victims having the slightest
chance of retaliating, and the victims
would in all- probability be women and
children. Even Indians kept their squaws
out of the fight.
We have the talkies, some of which
are good and others just trash. We all
go every week and help to support a
number of people whose morals are cer-
tainly not in accordance with our reli-
gious teachings. A good deal of our
money goes out of the country in sup-
porting this industry.
The wireless gives some good items
and some bad ones. I had the doubtful
pleasure the other evening of listening-
in when one man strangled another. It
had no effect on me —I’m too hard-boiled
—but the effect on a younger mind is
obvious.
Motors and tractors also come under
the scientific heading. Motors are in
opposition to the railways, the railways
don’t pay, and the jolly old taxpayer
makes up the deficiency. Tractors enable
the farmer to increase production, ano
he has got to that stage where he has
flooded the market and cannot get a
payable price for his crop. He turns to
the Government for assistance, which he
is given, and once again the taxpayer
toots the bill. Most of the money paid
for motors and tractors quietly leaves
these shores.
War materials, another scientific line.
The methods used in war to-day cannot
be classed as anything else but barbar-
ous. But a scientist works for years and
evolves a gas or a gun for the express
purpose of maiming or slaughtering his
fellows, and when he succeeds he is pro-
claimed by his Government and prob-
ably given an honor, when he should
be arraigned for murder. t .
When placed on record this “period,
which we are pleased to term “civilisa-
tion,” will be about the blackest mark
on the calendar. —L. J. West (S.A.).
• m
“Culture or Barbarism?”
Did “Shakspeare’s Ghost” (B.
21/6/’39) ever try walking the Adelaide-
Kalgoorlie section of the Trans, line dur-
ing the depression? Writer did it both
ways at the age of 17. Slept in the
desert one night, 300 miles east of Ival-
goorlie, with seven others like myselt.
Six of them were under 22 years of age.
Unwilling to sponge on our parents, and
preferring a thousand-mile hike in
of work to the dole, we were the “sissy
sons of “degenerates” who helped win
the Great War, pioneered airways of the
world and sang “Lily of Laguna.” Our
“degenerate” grandparents sang Yip-1-
Addy” and made Australia what it is—
the envy of many foreign Powers. To-
morrow the schoolboys of to-day will tly
non-stop Sydney to San Francisco
As boys we told the world There
Ain’t No Sense Sittin’ on the Fence, read
penny horribles —and Shakspeare be-
cause we had to. We’ve forgotten all
three, but if the call comes we’ll do
just as well amongst the Big Berthas
and Long Toms as “Shakspeare’s Ghost
—and a whole lot to save our cobbers.
So what’s wrong with our kids sing-
ing “Daisy” (as they did in the 1890 s)
and reading Seed Gawkins? Was not
Shakspeare’s Puck going to “put a girdle
round the earth in 40 minutes”? Thai
at a time when the circumference didn t
move as rapidly as the hub of to-day.
“Shakspeare’s Ghost” need harbor
no fears regarding posterity. For
example, the letters on this page, are
pretty good in view of the fact that they
emanate from brains of all ages, many
in the same category as those of— The
Other Ghost’s Mind (W.A.).
Pay for Food
“If everyone paid their bills,” said the
grocer, “we would be able to sell things
cheaper. As it is, the ones that do pay
also pay for the ones that won t.
His remark was very similar to what
I have heard from many other business-
men. And frequently we read in the
newspapers of bankrupts who could have
carried on if only they could have got
in their money.
Strangely enough, the people who run
up accounts with the grocer, butcher,
milkman, etc., are not down-and-outs or
people on a small wage, but well-paid
persons with good salaries. They have
“positions to keep up. Their money
often goes on cars, dress, entertainment,
etc., while their accounts mount up at
the food-provider’s.
We need some system to rectify this.
A law penalising the food-provider if
he extended credit for more than three
months to any person in receipt of a
salary over a certain amount would
ensure that those who could pay do pay.
-C. (Q.).
Foreign Doctors
Melbourne has been suddenly awak-
ened to the real issues of the “foreign
doctor” question by Professor Woodruff,
of Melbourne Uni. “A few more doc-
tors,” said the professor, “might be bad
for the 8.M.A., but would be goou
for medicine and science.” That is put-
ting the matter in a nutshell We have
been led to believe that it is a question of
protecting the public from an influx of
inferior men; but that does not enter
into it The real question is on what
terms, if any, foreign doctors of equal
qualifications with our own shall be ad-
mitted to practise in this State. On that
matter the B.M.A. stands pat. But the
more the B.M.A. states its case the more
does it give the show away.
The latest is that no doctor may
be expected to go to the bush without
an income of £lOOO a year, guaranteed
by subsidy or otherwise ; and so, because
the young cubs just out of school will not
go unless they are so handsomely spoon-
fed, and foreign doctors are not allowed
to go, bush hospitals are being closed
and the real Australian is without medi-
cal help.
R.L.S. once said, “When I think of
all the horrid medical students 1 know, I
cannot help wondering where all the nice
doctors come from.” There are “nice
doctors” in abundance. Hundreds of
them do a vast amount of good without
hope of reward, and in the end get
neither credit nor cash but only criticism.
But somehow when these men speak and
act as members of their powerful trade-
union they seem to develop a collective
consciousness in which much of their
individual “niceness” is submerged for
the time being. It is a pity that some of
these nice men could not be a little nicer
—a little more human, in short, where
their foreign colleagues, driven almost to
desperation, are concerned. —D. A. K.
(Vic.).
Status of Women
Many contributors speak of the im-
provement in the status of women. The
single woman is much better off than she
was last century, but what of the mar-
ried woman, the mother —is she as well
off as her grandmother was? The mother
in the last century certainly had a large
family, but domestic help was plentiful
and cheap, the cost and standard of liv-
ing not so high as at present. Where is
now the penurious, unmarried female
relative who was glad to help in return
for a home? She is earning a good
salary and filling the tourist resorts and
cruise-ships at holiday time. Where is
the capable person who for a nominal
sum would come for a day or a week
to do the family sewing and mending?
She is extinct.
And what has progress given the
mother to make up for this vanished
domestic help? The majority of women,
outside the cities, wash, cook, wash-up
and clean with tools very little improved
on those used by their grandmothers.
Ready-made clothing for children is very
expensive ; consequently the mother mus
save by doing, as much of the family
sewing as she can find time for.
The only way in which the married
couple can keep the family standard o*
living at a reasonable level is by refus-
ing to have more children than the wile
can cook, wash and sew for, nurse ana
care for in sickness and in health, single-
handed.
While the community considers the
work of a single woman teaching, nurs-
ing or typing to be worth good wages
and conditions, and the very important
work of a mother caring for a number
of young children to be worth exactly
nothing, can one wonder that the birt
rate continues to fall? — Tam O
(Vic.). . -
"Bulletin" Style
e
termed a “bookstall crawl” —every maga-
zine that I noticed bearing an Australian
address on it I bought. I was looking
for something in them, and I found it
only in The Bulletin. I’ve stuck to it ever
since. The Bulletin is, in my opinion,
the only magazine that realises the Aus-
tralian tradition is in existence. Others,
when they boast of being Australian, use
this boast to hurl abuse at every other
nation whose actions they take exception
to. The Bulletin seems aware not only
of the Digger tradition but what the
Diggers came from. It doesn’t treat the
men of a hundred years ago as “colonials
or “British settlers,” but as men of this
land in which we live.
I would like to see the new section,
“Fifty Years Ago,” added to by reprint-
ing the poems that were written for the
old numbers, and also some of the older
joke-blocks.
Long live The Bulletin, its traditions,
and its “new writers’ competition”!
JOYCE MARTIN SKINNER (N.S.W.)


w
A TRAINED MIND
observes, concentrates, is confident, expresses
itself, has courage, decision, and a reliable memory:
has greater earning power
and reaches out for success
yhe way to become mentally efficient, to train the mind, is to take a
Course of Pelmanism, the famous system of Mental Training that has
equipped more than half a million men and women for success in every
walk of life.
The Pelman System has stood the test, of time. For forty years in
London and for over thirty years in Melbourne it has been an unqualified
success in bringing the mental powers of men and women up to the
highest pitch of efficiency and making them successful at their work, and
outside their work. It gives an extension of personal power and makes
the individual’s life richer in every way.
Every student of Pelmanism gets the advantage of forty years’
experience in training the minds of men and women in all walks of life
and in advising upon practical needs and issues of the day. The Pelman
Training is closely individual and is particularised to the circumstances of
each student.
Successful living has its technique and the Pelman Course shows
what it is. This known and tried training of personal power brings
immediate and permanent results. It furbishes the mind, removes
hindrances to progress, eliminates fear and self-distrust and develops
the positive qualities of mind and character that make people leaders
instead of followers, individuals instead of self r effaced members of
the crowd.
THE PELMAN INSTITUTE
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street),
Melbourne, C.l. Telephone: MU2355.
We shall be glad to send
readers a copy of “The
Efficient Mind,” 76 pages,
post free. You can write us
fully, or you can make just
a bare application by using
or copying the form along-
side. Your inquiry will be
regarded as a confidential
communication; we have no ?
outside representatives.
TO THE PEL MAN INSTITUTE,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind."
Name
Address
97
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
e
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
i enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
■AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
IS? BITERS
s Jlr Robert / <u‘eski
256 Pages-
(illustrated)
The Australian Cattle-dog,
the Kelpie, the Barb,
Bush Greyhounds, Fox-
terriers and many
others in this
splendid book
on Dogs.
Xow reduced
to 2/2
(post
free).
&
&
&
&
&
c°
A*
&
w
OV*
0°
AV®
.•* v 0 'V^SiV e<


- “LYSAGHTS” -
100% Australian Made From Australian Material 100%
Ouf Name is a Guarantee that you get
only the Best Article
WIRE NETTING
RABBIT PROOF
MARSUPIAL
] with Centre Strand '
SHEEP J if desired -
POULTRY
BIRD
HITS
nrsa
¥a
PROOF
WIRE
(All Gauges 00 to 30)
FENCING WIRE
Black and Galvanised (all Gauges)
Ordinary, Soft and High Tensile
BALING WIRE
Black, Galvanised and Self-colored.
TINMAN’S WIRE
Soft and Hard.
NAIL WIRE
WIRE for MANUFACTUR-
ING PURPOSES
Soft and' Hard of all descriptions.
Ey
Look
for
our
in
w
e
w
12 1 and 14 Gauge.
Length per cwt.:
620 yards to 930 yards.
"SPECIAL"
•SPECIAL* - (Long Distance).
WIRE
NAILS
ALSO CLOUTS
STAPLES. BRADS,
PANEL PINS AND
SLATERS' NAILS.
e
ZINC
OXIDE
ALL GRADES USED
FOR MANUFACTURE
OF RUBBER, PAINTS,
ETC.
w
