

NO
f!
/p
A
K
r>
'S
'
s
r
y«*
\
/
V 2
s
W
/
A
Sk«®
Unk White, famous "Bulletin" artist,
gives us this impression of his
favourite phrase—"No, thanks. I'd
rather have a Red Capstan."
Better Buy
dsf
197-7-9
JetW* /
It's always time for a Capstan Special Mild in the RED Pack
10 for 6d. —2O for 1/- - - - Also flat and round fifties and hundreds
The Bulletin
Britain S Man-pOWcr “Uncabled Additions' (Pages 28-29)
Vol. 60.—N0. 3103.
Wednesday, August 2, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
nui
IUU
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free 16pp. R lustr ° te ?
Penmanship Prospectus explaining your Muscular Movement System oj
Writing, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 139 .
The Red Page
A VERY JOYCE MORSEL
If a writer, making the simplest and crudest of
puns, writes “mat” for “mate,” he conveys to the
reader not two sounds but three: the sound of “mate,”
the sound of “mat” and a wavering overtone that is
the sound of “mate” changing into “mat.” It is as if
a pianist, instead of striking a single note to represent
“mate” or a single note to represent “mat,” strikes
both notes together, producing a sound that is both
a blend of the originals and a reminiscence of each of
them. And that, simplified to its essentials, is the
method of the sound effects in James Joyce’s Finnegans
Wake (Faber; Angus and Robertson). The reader
has to listen for the overtone, read between the puns.
Such a pun as “mate” and “mat” is not particu-
larly confusing to the ear, yet it is sufficiently notice-
able to cause surprise or laughter. Multiply that small
shock enough times by a series of puns, forcing the
ear to acknowledge three sounds for each one, three
hundred for each hundred, and the effect becomes in-
describably confusing. Most of the important words
in Finnegans Wake are puns, and there are roughly
250,000 words. Anybody who tried to laugh 250,000
times reading one book would laugh himself into the
madhouse, and what actually happens in reading the
book is that after a time the mind simply refuses to
endure the cannonade of puns any longer. Either one
puts the book down, or else one reads it as nonsense,
refusing to try to translate it into sense. Here is a
paragraph, typical of what must be borne for 628
pages:—
The fall (bababadalgharaghtakamminarronnkonn-
bronntonnerronntuonnthunntrovarrhoun awnskawntoo-
hoohooordenenthumuk!) of a once-wallstrait oldparr is
retaled early in bed and later on life down through all
Christian minstrelsy. The great fall of the off wall
entailed at such short notice the pftjschute of Finne-
gan, erse solid man, that the humtyhillhead of humself
prumptly sends an unquiring one well to the west in
quest of his tumptytumtoes: and their upturnpike-
pointandplace is at the knockout in the park where
oranges have been laid to rust upon the green since
devlinsfirst loved livvy.
Here, apart from such obvious puns as “erse”
(“erstwhile” and “Irish”) and “rust” (“rest” and “rust-
colored”), are examples of most of the other purely
verbal difficulties of Finnegans Wake. There is the
invented word —the monstrous concoction in paren-
theses represents a thunderclap ; the words run to-
gether; the foreign word—Joyce has drawn on 50
languages; the distorted word, such as “prumptly”;
and the use of rhyme, both vowel and consonant
(“west” and “quest,” “loved” and “livvy”)—one of
the worst of all confusions when the ear is attuned
to prose rhythms.
These purely physical problems are almost enough
to make the book unreadable, but the impact of the
strange language on eye and ear is trifling compared
with the effect of the triple meaning of each pun upon
the understanding. Just as the “mat”-“mate” pun
involves three sounds, it evokes three images—the
image of “mate,” the image of “mat” and the idea
of “mate” as “mat,” a metaphor signifying, perhaps,
“downtrodden.” And when the brain has agreed to
grapple with three sounds for one, three meanings for
each word, the reader’s difficulties are still no more
than hinted at.
Joyce works throughout by associations, both of
sound and sense —as if from the sound “mat” one
proceeded to “might” and “mutt” and “meet,” and
from the image “mat” to “carpet,” “furniture,’
“house” or “Persia,” or anything else that happened
to come into one’s thoughts. Finnegan is “humself’
in the quotation above because, like Humpty Dumpty,
he fell off a wall and, being dead, is not quite him-
self. For another example, here is “Tern” becoming
“time” and “tom,” and “When he pleased” becoming
“Win and place”—both a pun and an association with
“bet” (spelt “butt”):
But, of course, he could call himself Tem, too, if
he had time to? You butt he could any tom. When he
pleased? Win and place.
“Tem”—if it help# at all —is probably the river
Thames.
Besides puns and associations, arbitrary or legiti-
mate, there is a great deal of verbal trickery deliber-
ately intended to be mystifying. An English critic
has investigated the passage:—-
All the vitalmines is beginning to sozzle in chewn
and the hormonies to clingleclangle, fudgem, kates and
eaps and naboc and erics and oinnos on kingclud and
xoxxoxo and xooxox xxoxoxxoxxx till I’m fustfed like
fungstif
Joyce is describing somebody talking with his mouth
full; the food as it is being masticated loses its shape,
so he rearranges the letters of each word in sympathy:
“steak” becomes “kates,” “peas” and “bacon” are
“eaps” and “naboc,” “duckling” is “kingclud.” So
far, Joyce is playing fair. But the last few items on
the menu have been chewed beyond the possibility of
recognition; the words full of o’s and x’s represent
“cabbage” and “boiled protestants” (potatoes), the
x’s standing for the consonants in those words and
the o’s for the vowels. It’s ingenious, but unless it is
explained it is a joke for the author only. And even
when it is explained, it isn’t particularly funny.
Is the whole book a joke at the public’s expense?
The present commentator’s opinion, based on a long
chapter in which Joyce gives a garbled “explanation”
of the work, is that fundamentally it is intended seri-
ously, but that with the serious intention goes both a
joke and a snarl at the public, because Joyce knew
that it could never be understood or appreciated, and
realised, perhaps, that his attempt to make prose do
the work of music was a failure. He states the book’s
purpose, the tremendous labor that went into it; he
anticipates the public reaction to “his last public mis-
appearance” and accepts with bitter humor the judg-
ment of the “blond cop who thought it was ink was
out of his depth but bright in the main”:
With this double dye, brought to blood heat, gallic
acid on iron ore, through the bowels of his misery,
flashly, faithly, nastily, appropriately, this Esuan
Menschavik and the first till last alshemist wrote over
every square inch of the only foolscap available, his
own body, till by its corrosive sublimation one continu-
ous present tense integument slowly unfolded all marry-
voising moodmoulded cyclewheeling history (thereby, he
said, reflecting from his own individual person life
unlivable, transaccidentated through the slow fires of
consciousness into a dividual chaos, perilous, potent,
common to allflesh, human only, mortal), but with each
word that would not pass away the squidself which he
had squirtscreened from the crystalline world waned
chagreenold and doriangrayer in its dudhud. This
exists that isits after having been said we know. And
dabal take dabnal. And the dal dabal dab aldanabal!
So perhaps, agglaggagglomeratively asaspenking, after
all and arklast fore arklyst on his last public misap-
pearance, circling the square, for the deathfete of Saint
Ignaceous Poisonivy of the Fickle Crowd (hopon the
sexth day of Hogsober, killim our king, layum low!)
and brandishing his bellbearing stylo, the shining keyman
of the wilds of change, if what is sauce for the zassy
is souse for the zazimas the blond cop who thought
it was ink was out of his depth but bright in the main.
That it is “bright in the main” can’t be disputed.
The puns and distortions are so amazingly ingenious
that essayists are likely to be quarrying it for many
years. When he wishes to say “girl friend,” because
the girl of whom he speaks is very young and silly,
the prose itself giggles—“gigirl frifriend” ; a “merry
Christmas,” because Christmas is the time of rain and
mud and because Christmas festivities are a crush and
a mess, becomes a “muddy crushmess”; a singer
whose sweet sounds are heard late and early sings “lute
and airly.”
For an example of words charged to the limit
with suggestion one can take the invocation:
In the name of Annah the Allmaziful, the Ever-
living, the bringer of Purabilities, haloed be her eve,
her singtime sung, her rill be run, unhemmed as it is
uneven.
“Annah” suggests “Allah” and the Mohammedan
faith; “her singtime sung” and the rhythm of the
concluding phrases suggest “Thy Kingdom Come”—
the Lord’s Prayer and the Christian religion; “All-
maziful” implies both ‘ All-merciful” and Coleridge s
“Five miles meandering with a mazy motion” —a
reference to the “sacred river” and to all rivers;
“Plurabilities,” the keyword to the sentence, suggests
the diversity of life, and reminds the, reader that
Joyce’s heroine is Anna Livia Plurabelle. Since Anna
is at once a woman and all women, Dublin’s river
Liffey and all rivers, the sentence is so packed with
meanings that to unravel each one and then to bring
them into the synthesis Joyce has already achieved
would take a book in itself.
The verbal dexterity of the Anna Livia Plurabelle
section, which was published in pamphlet form some
years ago, has been admired fairly widely. Present
commentator can’t see that it gives any clearer picture
of a river than Tennyson and Blunden have given
without any distortion of the language, but the way
Joyce can make his prose sway and swirl and chime
in imitation of the Liffey is at least interesting:
Well, arundgirond in a waveney lyne aringarouma
she pattered and swung and sidled, dribbling her
boulder through narrowa mosses, the diliskydrear on
our drier side and the vilde vetchvine agin us, curara
here, careero there, not knowing which medway or
weser to strike it, edereider, making Chattahoochee all
to her ain chichiu, like Santa Claus at the cree of the
pale and puny....
The blond cop, however, remains the authority.
When all the ingenuity is recognised, when one has
admitted the Rabelaisian humor of the interludes, so
nearly making sense, with which the narrative is gar-
nished, the book’s real purpose remains ink, remains
out of the reader’s depth, and the fault lies in the
method, not in the reader. The attempt to paint in
“one continuous present tense” all “marryvoising
moodmoulded cyclewheeling history” doesn’t work.
Finnegans Wake is a mirror in which the reflection
of the history of Dublin is a symbol of the story of
all mankind. Its sweep is from the Stone Age (“Ore
you astoneaged?”) to the present day. All peoples
are evoked, their myths and religions, their languages,
customs, cultures, their leading personalities—from
the Stone Age’s Mutt and Jeff to France’s Napoleon
and Dublin’s James Joyce. Its characters are uni-
versal : Anna, as has been stated, is all rivers and all
women, the feminine principle flowing through all
time, illuminating and (as Joyce shows by making the
first sentence of the book a completion of the last)
enclosing all life.
H. C. Earwicker, the leading male personality, is
all men. He is Here Comes Everybody. One of
Joyce’s inexplicable “explanations” seems to suggest
that Earwicker could represent “the word” —the male
power of speech which is the coal that has fired the
progress of human civilisation. “Earwig” wouldn’t be
a bad name for the personification of “word,” and the
struggle of man through the centuries might give
some justification for Joyce’s manipulation of the
language—but the theory is no more than a shot in
the dark. The usual explanation of the verbal circus
is that it’s “night-language,” the dream-distorted
mouthings of Earwicker as the story floats up into
his sleeping brain.
Joyce took his notion of presenting a history of
Dublin as an image of universal history from the
philosophy of the seventeenth-century Neapolitan,
Vico, who had in mind the writing of the story of
Rome as “a timeless, ideal history.” Finnegan was the
hero of a ballad who died and came to life again at
his own wake. Therefore Earwicker meditates on the
unchanging river of the female principle, and the per-
petual struggle, death and renewal of the male prin-
ciple. Since it is quite impossible to follow this drama
as an ordinary story in prose, the only way to accept
it (and the way the sound effects seem to derhand) is
as a musical theme and variations—not the “music
of the spheres,” but the earthy voice of Dublin and
the world we live in. And that is the final effect of
Finnegans Wake —a vast, coarse, complicated music.
Giving Joyce due credit for the magnitude of his con-
ception, wouldn’t one get almost exactly the same
result from reading the Encyclopedia Britannica back-
wards?
Shaw and the Dictators.
The older Shaw grows the more he looks like
Father Christmas and the more he allows a sort of
Yuletide jollity to soften the bite of his wit. In Geneva
(Constable; Angus and Robertson) he makes the
world a present of Hitler and Mussolini —not as
bogeys to frighten the young, but as a couple of tiny,
clockwork figures, comic and rather likeable. Behind
the genial beard, however, Shaw’s teeth are still sharp:
if the dictators are toys, England is represented by a
stupid, selif-satisfied flapper and a doddering fox-
hunter. And the implication that Shaw’s audience
likes to play with toys —will enjoy a play written for
children, with its weak jokes elaborately emphasised—
is the unkindest cut of all.
As a political statement it was worth making. It
says, in effect, that there will never be any real peace
until the inhabitants of Peckham lose the prejudice
that makes them look down on the inhabitants of the
neighboring London suburb of Camberwell and until
the flapper who despises Camberwell also loses such
notions as “Remember that England never lost a
battle, and that it does no harm to remind foreigners
of it when they get out of hand.” Stupidity, prejudice,
faith in national slogans, the fear and suspicion that
make understanding impossible —these are Shaw’s
Aunt Sallys, with Shavian humor to compensate for
their familiarity, and Shavian good-humor to make a
very pleasant change from the dreariness of plays such
as Auden and Isherwood’s On the Frontier or the hate-
propaganda of talkies such as “Confessions of a Nazi
Spy.”
Before the book reached Australia, Gregan
McMahon produced the play in Melbourne, and the
plot was outlined in Sundry Shows (B. 12/6/’39).
Hitler and Mussolini, disguised as Herr Battler and
Signor Bombardone are on trial in Geneva for offences
against humanity. Franco is up, too, but has onlyua
minor part. Characters in attendance are the flapper
and the British Foreign Secretary ; a Jew who states
the case against Hitler, but rather weakens it by rush-
ing out to make money when the end of the world
appears to be imminent; a wild woman from a South
American republic; an evangelical lady who wants
everybody to love everybody; and a bewildered
“colonial” who is convinced that everyone is mad.
The play appears to have been a success in Mei-
bourne, though from the book version it hardly seems
possible that there would have been a laugh in the first
act. The death of a bishop, on being told that “the
Russian Comintern is analagous to the Church of
England” and that there are no poor in Russia, is very
clumsy farce. Clumsy, too, is the end of the play
where Shaw extricates himself from the difficulties of
trying dictators by threatening a cosmic accident that
will mean the end of the world. But the reactions of
the characters to the threat are amusing—the Jew
darting off to make his pile while there is still time,
Hitler weeping because his dog will be killed, Musso.
wanting to die like a Roman, the Foreign Secretary in-
sisting that the rumor must be denied because it will
interfere with trade.
All the third act —the trial scene —is bright, most
of the laughs coming from play on the jealousy
between Hitler and Mussolini:
Bombardone: Mr. President, if you allow Ernest to
expatiate on the Jewish question we shall get no further
before bedtime. He should have waited for a lead from
me before meddling with it, and forcing me to banish
the Jews lest my people should be swamped by the
multitudes he has driven out. I say he should have
waited. I must add that I have no use forjeaders who
do not follow me.
Battler and Bombardone almost come to blows in
court; and even the imperturbable Foreign Secretary
is moved to violent protest when Battler, who has
been attacking democracy unreproved, mispronounces
a Latin word in a way Sir Orpheus considers is an
insult to his old school.
For a Shaw play it is poorly constructed and, in
the first two acts, more chirpy than witty. It passes
muster as a topical skit, and there is sound thinking
behind it. Feliks Topolski’s illustrations do it more
than justice—and, incidentally, Battler and Bombar-
done are drawn frankly as Hitler and Mussolini, not
disguised in heroic costumes as they were when the
play was staged in Melbourne.
Ireland's Days of Trouble.
Two new books on the same theme —Ireland in
the troubles —are Jim Phelan’s novel Green Volcano
(Peter Davies) and the autobiography of Maud Gonne
Macßride, A Servant of the Queen (Gollancz). By
an inversion of what seems the proper order, the
novel is realistic and the memoir romantic.
Green Volcano is a roaring book. It begins in
Glasgow in 1916 when Ben Robinson is betrayed by
(“Red Page” continued on page 8.)


ANTHONY HORDERNS
BETTER & CLEANER
«
£32
*25
*sf m? m
•v
TICKING
' *
PURE FELTED
COTTON
CURLED HAIR
STOUT CANVAS
SPIRAL SPRINGS
SPRINGS SEPARATELY
CASED
WE WILL GIVI
101
IB
i
;■
>4
£ >i
ifc
Hi
m
"HORDERNIAN" MATTRESS Illustrated at Top
This mattress represents the last word in modern mattress construction. Each
spring is encased in a separate pocket. Layers of fleecy felted cotton and
hair are placed on each side of the springs, thereby ensuring perfect comfort
and complete relaxation. The covering is of Belgian Ticking in various
colours and stripes. 2ft.6in. 3ft. 3ft.6in. 4ft. 4ft.6in.
Mattresses £5/19/6 £6/17/6 £7/17/6 £B/15/- £9/5/-
• Bedding—Third Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
WHAT WE DO AND WHAT YOU DO:
I.—YOU select your fresh bedding from our unrivalled
assortment, the prices being as always at Anthony Horderns'
the lowest possible, quality considered. BUT—note this!
Off our "Famous Low Prices" you receive a generous rebate
on your old bedding.
WE WILL ALLOW YOU £1 FOR YOUR OLD MATTRESS IF
YOU PURCHASE A NEW FULL SIZE ONE. If you decide on
a mattress smaller than 4ft. 6in. wide, WE WILL ALLOW
YOU 10/- off the price of a new one. This, of course, is off
our standard prices as quoted in our regular price list. We
do not include Flock or Fibre bedding in this offer, as we do
not recommend them as "Better Bedding".
WE WILL deliver your new Bedding without charge (if you
live in the Metropolitan Area), and special vans will pick up
your old Mattresses and remove them. COUNTRY
CUSTOMERS write for further particulars.
In exchange for your old Feather or Down Quilts, we will
allow you £1 off our marked prices on any Quilt from £5
upwards, and on Quilts from £3 to £5 we will allow you 10/-.
Take advantage of this splendid offer. It will remain open
during our Better Bedding Campaign only, and all old Quilts
sent in will be burnt.
HYGIENE CAMPAIGN:
In instituting this Campaign, Anthony Horderns' are mindful
of the immensely important bearing that Bedding has on
health—they know how easily bedding might become un-
hygienic. It is this fact that prompted the Government
practically to forbid the re-making of bedding (Kapok)
under the Public Health (Amendment) Act, 1921. In many
cases the old Mattresses which you have are not in any
sense an asset—they may be actually a liability and a
danger. You cannot have them re-made; you cannot sell
them; you would probably have to pay for them to be
removed. Take advantage of Anthony Horderns' Hygiene
Campaign to secure "Better and Cleaner" Bedding.
KAPOK EXHIBITION:
Kapok is so perfect as it comes from the hands of Nature that,
beyond being exposed to air and sun, and being freed of
the seeds it contains in the ripe pod, it is subjected to no
manufacturing process whatever. And to illustrate this, we
have arranged with the kind permission and with the co-
operation of the Consul for the Netherland Indies a very fine
Exhibition of Kapok in each of its various stages. You will
find this remarkably interesting Exhibition on the Third Floor,
adjacent to the Furnishing Drapery Department.
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LTD., SYDNEY. 'Phone M 2401 Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


THE TRESPASSER
By David Goodhart
This story—by David Goodhart, of 7 Harrow-road, St. Peters, South Australia—
was awarded the £5 prize in the first of “The Bulletin’s” New Writer competitions.
The other story on this page, “Not Married Any More,” was also written by a
newcomer to “The Bulletin.”
EVERY year he went out into the Pitchuritja
country. Why he went he did not know. It
was something more than dog-scalps, traded
from the blacks, that took him out there year
after year with his string, his camel-boxes and his
load of flour —across the Aboriginal Reserves and
into the desert, until he reached the Windaboolka
Ranges.
He followed his own old pad each year, skirting
the red central ranges and the immense tracts of mulga
scrub, leaving the fringe of the cattle country far
behind. Very few whites went out there. This year,
none at all.
He rode a camel in the lead, the string behind
him, loads swaying, nose-lines stretching or drooping,
with the one camel-boy bringing up the rear. This
year, leaving the railway line, he had seemed a little
grim, defiant, in his preparations.
“You’re an everlasting damn’ fool,” said Paddy
Milligan at the store. But he only grinned, as he
always did, when the boys in along the line threw
off at him.
“S’long, Paddy,” he said ; “I’ll be gettin’ along.”
That was all.
Two and a half miles an hour, a score of miles
a day, a hundred miles a week —he travelled three
weeks after leaving the fringe behind. He followed
one thin blue line of dwindling hills that speared the
desert, melting at their westerly tip into nothingness,
dripping heat. He stepped into a world flat as a
board, comprised entirely of red desert sand, its bril-
liant brick-red surface relieved only by the gracious
green clumps of giant spinifex and scattered desert
oak.
For five more days he rode, then on the sixth
day he sighted the Windaboolka Ranges.
“There y’are!” he said, and shifted himself com-
fortably on his saddle-blankets. “There y’are!” He
never sighted the Windaboolka Ranges without that
feeling of pride within him. About them, in their
desert-steeped unbelievable stillness, there was time-
lessness, endlessness, peace. They had always been
there. They always would be.
Old Mootchita would be there, with his dwindling
tribe, waiting for him at Oolculculka rock-hole, or
on his way to it. He would be there, as he was each
year, year after year.
“There y’are! ” His voice was triumphant.
Every year, wherever he’d been—in at the Alice, up
the top end or out at Tennant’s—they’d laugh at him,
those who knew him well enough, towards the end
of summer.
“Old Tom’s gettin’ walkabout fever again,” they’d
say. “The winter’s coming.”
But he didn’t mind. “See y’ later,” he’d grin at
them casually. “S’long.” But it was something more
than walkabout fever, he knew. It was something he
might have been able to explain, for a few fleeting
moments each year, as he sighted the Windaboolka
Ranges.
Rare enough, when he first came out here, was
a sight of white man to black. Big tribes, they’d
been, in those days. At his first night’s camp at
Oolculculka, a hundred muscular bucks, brandishing
spears, had descended on him. Not a gin or a wei in
sight. But he had a way with blacks. He played
the usual tricks —shone a mirror on stark red rocks,
demonstrated, with results startling even to himself,
for he had forgotten the echoings in the Oolculculka
Gorge, with a little gunfire.
There he had first met Mootchita, proud hunter,
fiercest of all the Pitchuritja people, who had told
him of killings, of stolen women, of duels and thigh-
wounds, of murderers’ slippers made of emu-down
that left no tracks, of mighty tribal wanderings across
the three great deserts. There had been the time
when he performed a rough surgical operation, dig-
ging spear-tips out of Mootchita’s festering thigh and
healing it with iodine.
After that they were blood brothers. And then
each year, respectfully, the scattered tribes came drift-
ing in like emus to water, walking like emus with
their cautious, stately tread, spears and wommeras
carried behind their backs, shoulders high, as is the
way with the black man who comes in peace, but
warily.
AT first he had been prospecting, but afterwards
he taught them to know the luxury of white flour,
and he taught them the value of dog-scalps in return
for little bags of it. And after that, with his string
and flour, every year he came.
He remembered the changing seasons, the years
when spinifex and mulga bloomed, heavy with per-
fume, in the track of the thunderstorms. Munyeroo
and parakelia, pussytail, mulga-grass, sprouting exul-
tantly from the red desert sand. Camps where the
native figs were ripe, where there were dark-brown
currants among green leaves. Other years when
nearly all the waters were choked with sand, and a
match flipped into the spinifex raised an inferno in
five seconds.
There was the first year he rode his camels twelve
days westwards without water, knowing, as he rode,
that if Oolculculka failed him he and his string would
perish. But Oolculculka had never failed him, any
more than it had failed the Pitchuritjas.
Sometimes the tribes were fat and healthy, and
game was plentiful, and Oolculculka prime emu
country. The bucks grew lazy and quarrelsome, but
the rocks around Oolculculka would echo and re-echo
with the laughter* of the idle ones bathing, splashing,
shrieking like children in the deep rock pools. And
sometimes the tribes were emaciated. There were no
young piccaninnies. Infanticide was rife, and Moot-
chita, as did the others, ate more than was good for
him of human flesh. The weak could not hunt, not
even the wild-dog, and the wild-dog hunted the weak
in the last extreme.
But Mootchita and his faithful ones reached the
Oolculculka rock-hole at the same time of year each
year. And even if they did not bring him scalps he
fed them from his load.
He learned to love the Pitchuritjas as the years
went by, though he never learned the full extent of
their wanderings. It did not matter. He knew they
would be at Oolculculka at his time of year.
“What way this time?” he would grin at old
Mootchita in their language he had learned. But the
old black would only grunt casually and wave his
hand perhaps westwards, southwards or northwards,
palm curved and outflung in the graceful, swanlike
gesture of his people.
And the Pitchuritjas respected him. Although
he witnessed their most secret and sacred dances, even
the Wanji-Wanji travel-dance, and initiation rites, he
never interfered either with their feuds or with their
lubras. And he never traded them clothing or tobacco,
only flour.
New-timers' were less particular. Competition
reached the Windaboolka Ranges. Other old-timers,
new-timers from inside the fringe, found their way
out there in good season. It made his blood boil to
see it coming—contamination and white man’s
diseases. The new-timers brought shirts for the bucks,
dresses for the gins, tobacco and clay pipes as well
as flour.
Drought saved the Pitchuritja people. For with
the drought the tribes broke westwards, and the
doggers returned into the inside areas. Only he of
them all went out to the Windaboolka Ranges. It
was not the thought of dog-scalps that took him out
there now. He carried medicines in his camel-boxes
as he plodded across the Reserves. He carried more
than he could afford to Carry, and although the tribes
dwindled he succored them year by year as best he
could.
A ND so, this year, he was there again, sitting down
** in the Windaboolka Ranges beside the deep rock-
hole Oolculculka, greeting old Mootchita happily,
chuckling and exchanging gossip in the Pitchuritja
language.
Old Mootchita had been waiting for him. It had
not needed a match flicked into the spinifex twenty
miles back to announce his coming. Gins and picca-
ninnies had gathered, shrieking, high on the granite
tors. The bucks came in from their hunting, greeting
him shyly but laughingly, spears, wommeras behind
their backs. And the old men chuckled, approaching
his camp, but not too close.
For months this year he lingered on at his camp
beside the Oolculculka rock-hole. The Pitchuritjas
were as myall as they had ever been. He was glad
they came and went. He traded his flour and doctored
their hurts, and the tribes drifted in and drifted out
again into far-flung hunting-grounds. They brought
him scalps and borrowed his pans, and went off jubi-
lantly a little way to their own camps to make their
precious cakes.
He lingered on this year, long after his trading
flour was gone. For this year was not as other years
when there had been no difficulty in procuring a
permit to enter the Reserves or to pass beyond them.
He was loath to leave.
The tribes grew restless and brought him no
more scalps, and soon they came and went, and some
returned no more. Even Mootchita turned longing
eyes westwards.
And then one morning when he awoke late he
heard no chatter of the gins, no piccaninnies’ laughter
resounding shrilly from their camps a little way off.
They were gone. The gorge was empty. He loaded
up his camels and started back.
For five days he rode. And on the sixth day
he saw the thread of hills piercing the desert like a
spear-tip, dripping heat. He followed his own pad
back the way he always went, skirting the red central
ranges and the seas of mulga scrub, until he was out
of the Great Aboriginal Reserves and back in the
inside areas.
He made no attempt to hide his tracks. It would
have been futile for him to try to do so. Jimmie
Pearson, on patrol, would pick them up in any case
months later. Jimmie knew his habits, knew his
riding camel’s pad. It was not Jimmie’s fault that
the Government had seen fit that year to close the
Reserves completely and to issue no permits from
now on, let alone to doggers. There had been talk
in southern newspapers of “contamination.”
He had no permit. He even agreed, generally
speaking, with the Government’s policy. Ha pleaded
guilty indifferently, and gave no explanations. Nor
did he blame the magistrate for fining him for tres-
passing on the Aboriginal Reserves, although he knew
it would not be easy to rake up enough funds to
make a trip next year.
“You’re an everlasting damn’ fool,” said Paddy
Mulligan to him afterwards. “Shure and it’ll teach
you a lesson, it will.”
He said nothing, only grinned.
NOT
MARRIED
ANY MORE
BY GLEN LAIRD.
FROM where he stood on a rise overlooking the
sea the boy watched the yellow roof of the bus
slide down the opposite hill, and wondered if
dad would be on this one. As it panted up the
rise to where he was waiting he knew it wasn’t dad's
bus, but he jumped on to the step.
“Get off there, Lionel,” shouted the driver ; “d’you
want to break your neck?” And as he obeyed the boy
asked, “What bus is dad on? Is he working to-day?”
“How should I know?” snapped the busman.
“Maybe he’s out chasing your mother, as usual.” The
only passenger winked at the driver and joined in his
laughter.
The bus turned the corner, and the boy went to
sit down on the grass to watch the sea again. It
seemed very close ; so close that if you took a good
long run you could dive right in. But Li knew it was
a fair run down the hill before you could jump on
to the warm sand, where on dad’s days off they used
to spend hours swimming and building castles. But
mum and Mary never used to come with them when
they went swimming or to the pictures, and once Mary
had said in a snooty way, “One of these days mum
and I will have lots more fun than going down to the
rotten old beach.” Mary was always saying things that
he couldn’t understand. But Mary was twelve.
That was before dad had left home to go and live
near the bus depot. He reckoned it would be nearer
his work. But once when the woman next door had
asked Li where his dad was living and he’d told her
she’d laughed and said, “Nearer his work or further
from his worry?”
He looked down the road again to see if the next
bus was coming. He hoped dad wouldn’t be too long,
for if Mary came along and saw him waiting at the
corner she’d want to know what he was doing. Once
before when he’d told her he was waiting for dad
she’d said, “Wait till I tell mum.” And when he’d got
home mum had asked him if he’d seen dad, and when
he’d said yes she’d wanted to know what dad had
said to him and what he’d told dad. He’d said he’d
told dad that Mr. Jim had taken them to the trots one
night, and mum had said, “I’ll teach you to run telling
tales,” and had smacked him twice on the cheek.
MUM had been so different since Mr. Jim had
come to live with them, and Mary too. They
seemed to fuss over Mr. Jim more than they had ever
done over, dad, and always laughed when he made
jokes, although Li couldn’t see anything funny in them.
Like the time Mr. Jim had said, “Wonder how the
bus-driver is to-night” and “Tickets, please!” in just
the way dad said it when passengers were getting on.
And mum and Mary had laughed in that funny way
they did when Mr. Jim said anything about dad.
A series of staccato toots jerked his head around,
and there, rushing up the hill towards him, was dad’s
bus. He always knew dad’s bus by the radiator,
which was painted yellow.
(i Continued on page 7.)


WANTED :
New Story Writers
Each month The Bulletin is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in The Bulletin are eligible.
Stories must be short—1500 to 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates
£2 2s. for each I 100 words.
Closing date for the second monthly com-
petition is August 7. The sooner entries are
sent in the sooner they can be read and the
judging completed.
A Surprising Young Man
OUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
BENNY THE BULL.
IT was raining the proverbial cats and dogs when
Mr. George Freebody, attorney-at-law, knocked
at the door of the Bunch o’ Grapes Tavern in
Sussex-street. He might have lifted the latch and
gone in, but Mr. Freebody was a very polite man,
and would as soon have entered without knocking as
neglect to address a' magistrate as “Y’r Worship” or a
Judge as “Y’r Honor.”
When the door at last swung back, and the wind
had pushed him across the threshold, he found him-
self in a great bare apartment which extended the
length of the housefront and went back to half its
depth. The room was crowded with rough-looking
men and misty with strong tobacco-smoke, and Mr.
Freebody coughed asthmatically as he approached the
bar, trailing little rivulets of water in his wake across
the sanded floor.
Michael Malone, the landlord, welcomed him
heartily, pouring out a stiff nobbier of rum, which he
filled with hot water from a black kettle and pushed
across the narrow', zinc-covered counter as the lawyer
came up to it. There was a note of surprise in his
welcome. “Glory be, Mr. Freebody—’tis the divil’s
own night, so it is. For the love o’ Mike, what brings
ye down this way, now, such a night as this?”
Mr. Freebody unbuttoned his dripping cloak,
took it off and threw it over the back of a chair before
he picked up the glass and sipped its steaming con-
tents. Presently he put it down, took a folded paper
from an inner pocket, adjusted big horn-rimmed spec-
tacles, opened the document, and peered at it for a
moment or two before he spoke. “I’m looking for a
man, Malone —a sailor —and was told I might find him
here. You are quite right—’tis a very unpleasant
evening.”
“Well, thin, y’r ’anner” —Mr. Malone showed a
trace of suspicion in his manner —“would it be to this
fellie’s harrum ye was a-lukkin’ out for’m? For if
’tis so, ye know well I’m not the lad’s a-goin’ to help
ye. Is that a summons to coort ye’ve got for’m?”
“Oh, no, Mick —nothing of that sort. On the
contrary, it’s good news for him, if I can find him.
Don’t let that worry you.”
“Ah!” —the landlord sighed with relief —“that’s
different, so it is. An’ what’ll be the name o’ the lad,
Mr. Freebody? A sailorman, ye said? If he’s that,
I make no doubt I’ll know something of him. Arl
the shellbacks along the waterside do be a-comin’ into
the Grapes, wan time or another.”
“His name is Benjamin Bullivant.”
Mr. Malone laid down his churchwarden pipe on
the bar with such sudden violence that its long stem
broke. He lifted a hand as though to shield himself
from a blow, from some sort of disaster. “Benny the
Bull! God save us arl! Benny the Bull! ’Tis him
ye’re afther? Glory be to God!”
“You seem surprised, Mick. What’s the matter?”
“As I’m a borrun sinner, Mr. Freebody, ’tis but
widin the hour the polis come an’ tuk’m—an’ him
fightin’ an’ rampagin’ like a mad bull. ’Tis in the
cells at the Watch-house he’ll be this very minute, so
it is. Och, the bad luck —an’ y’r ’anner’s silf wid the
glad news for’m. Might I be axin’, now, Mr. Free-
body, what manner o’ good luck’s come lukkin’ for
Benny the Bull?”
Mr. Freebody considered for a moment or two
before replying.
“Oh, well, Mick,” he said, lowering his voice
confidentially, “if you’re a friend of his I suppose
there’s no harm in telling you. He’s come in for a
fortune —quite a respectable one, too. But what is
his trouble with the police?”
“Well, thin, it seems there was a bit of a frolic
last night at a house down Jack the Miller’s way—
some cillybration or other —whin that long slab o’
mis’ry, Sergeant Martin, pokes his nose in the dure
for to see what ’twas arl about, an’ Benny the Bull
ups an’ raps’m wan, an’ lays’m out, so the thraps ha’
bin searchin’ Sydney town for’m the whole day long.
An’ they come here an’ tuk’m not a quarter afther
eight o’clock. ’Twas the great fight he put up. Six
o’ the blagyards it tuk for to lug’m t’rough the dure,
an’ not a wan o’ thim wasn’t some way marked. ’Tis
a brave boy’s that same Benny the Bull, but ’twill
go harrud wid’m in the marnin’, I’m thinkin’, when
Dicky Windeyer does be dalin’ wid’m. They do say
that same gintleman’s a howly terror to thim that
handles the polis a bit enthusiastic. ’Tis six mont’s
in Sydney gaol me bould Ben’ll be afther gettin’—
hullo, thin, an’ what’s your throuble, Bill Sparrow,
that ye come tearin’ into me house like a whirrul-
wind? Shut the dure, an’ be damned to ye! The
storrum’s betther outside than in, I’m thinkin’.”
The new arrival, who had burst into the taproom
with a blast of cold air that made the Are swirl and
smoke, was all agog with excitement. He came drip-
ping across to the bar with protruding eyes and in-
coherent exclamations. The landlord reached up to
the shelves behind him and took down a bottle. He
pushed it towards the man as he quizzed him. The
latter half-filled a tumbler and gulped the liquor down
before he found his tongue. “Holy wars, Micky, I’m
just come from the best fight I ever seed in me life.
One against six, it was—an’ the way he spread ’em
out! ’Twas a sight for sore eyes. I stood in the
rain an’ watched it to the finish.”
“Begob, ye luk it, too, so ye do. Take another,
Billy-me-bhoy, ’twill do ye no harrum, an’ y’silf as wet
as a drownded man. Sure, thin, we didn’t have to go
out into the rain for to see a fight. There was wan
here, me bhoyo, would ha’ done y’r hear-rt good.
Benny the Bull, he”
“’Twas Benny the Bull I saw fightin’ six police-
men in Market-street, this side o’ George. Stiffen
me, that feller’s a terror! Why, dammit, he done in
the lot o’ them an’ got clear away. Two of ’em he
left lyin’ on the ground, an’ them that went after
him didn’t seem too anxious to catch up. He gave
’em leg bail, all right.”
“Where did he go, thin? Sure, me brave Benny
the Bull’s med Sydney town too hot to hold him, I’m
thinkin’.”
“Right down Market-street, towards the Market
Wharf —that’s the way he was heading, Micky. I
caught a last glimpse of him as he passed under a
lamp not fifty yards from the waterside.”
“Oh, well, he’ll be making for some ship, I’ve
not a doubt of it. Good luck to him. Them polis-
men won’t forget him.”
Mr. Freebody picked up his cloak and slung it
across his stooped shoulders. He seemed to have
thought better of taking Mr. Malone into his confi-
dence about the man Bullivant.
“I’ll be going home, Malone,” he said. “I’m
almost wet to the skin. Some of these days I’ll tell
you all about the business. But, in the meanwhile,
if you hear any word of this man Bullivant I wish
you’d let me know. He must be found. Send word
to my office, will you, if you hear aught of him?”
“Ye’re sure ’tis for his own good, Mr. Freebody?”
asked the landlord, disappointed at not hearing more.
“ ’Tis the gran’ fighter, so he is—a man afther me
own hear-rt. Good luck to him. I’d do naught to dp
him an ill turn.”
“He’d be glad to be found,.Mick, I can assure you
of that.”
CT IX months after the bleak and rain-swept Sep-
tember evening in 1831 when Mr. George Free-
body had gone looking for a missing heir at the Bunch
o’ Grapes in Sussex-street, that respectable and worthy
gentleman embarked on the steam-packet William the
Fourth at the village of Morpeth on the Hunter River.
He had assisted in saving a gallows-bird from his
deserts at Maitland Quarter Sessions, and was looking
forward to an enjoyable trip back to Sydney.
He sprang on to the wooden gunwale arid
achieved a most astonishing jump.


It had been only in the previous year that steam
navigation had been inaugurated on the Australian
coast by the advent of that marvel of marine comfort,
speed and seaworthiness the Sophia Jane, the smart
and up-to-date steamer which Lieutenant Biddulph,
R.N. (Ret.), had navigated from England, and now
there were two such vessels in the trade. The William
the Fourth, popularly nicknamed, from the noise of
her exhaust, the “Puffing Billy,” had been locally built
and launched at Clarence Town a few months after
the arrival of Mr. Biddulph’s ship. The keenest com-
petition existed between the two, and most enthusiastic
wagers were laid on each voyage of either that its
time would be better for the sixty-mile run from
Heads to river-mouth than that of its rival. But
though the Sophia Jane was nearly always a winner,
the William the Fourth was the pride of Sydney and
the Hunter, for she was a “Currency Lass” of true
colonial birth.
This morning as she swung round
in the river to commence her run
downstream, Mr. Walker’s massive
stone store made a background for a
cheering crowd, for the wonder of
steam navigation was still a very great
wonder indeed. There was no navi-
gating bridge in those early steamers,
merely a narrow railed plank stretch-
ing athwart the ship from the top of
one paddle-box to the top of the other,
which was occupied by the master
only when arriving at or leaving the
wharf. When the graceful little ship
headed downstream Captain Tag-
gart descended from his vantage post and walked
aft to the wheel, where two of his crew attended
to the steering. One of them was a giant of a man,
young and good-looking, with a great brown beard
spreading over a brawny chest and the limbs and arms
of a Hercules. He relinquished the spokes as the
captain approached, and touched his peaked cap.
“Everything all right, sir,” he said quietly. “I’ll
go and look after the fore-hold, I think, sir. Those
hay bales need fixing.”
“Right you are, Benny,” answered the captain.
“Stand by again at the Terrace. Yes, get yon hay
levelled down a bit —we’ve a good deal of dunnage
to go on top of it at Newcastle.” He turned to Mr.
Freebody, who leaned against the taffrail. “Ah, Mr.
Freebody, sir, glad to see you. Quick work, eh? She s
as handy as a wheelbarrow ; you can twist her round
anywhere. I hear you got that damned scoundrel off?
A pity—though I don’t suppose you look at it that
way, eh? Ah, well, the rope’s waiting Tom Hogben
some time. Maybe he won’t be so lucky in his counsel
next time? 1 hear ’twas a great defence you put up
between you—you and Mr. Lawler, the barrister. Oh,
well! ”
Captain Taggart's “Oh, well!” implied a good
deal, and Mr. Freebody smiled whimsically. He fell
into step beside him as the master of the William the
Fourth began the twenty-five-mile walk that was cus-
tomary with him during the negotiation of the river
passage, up or down. They were old friends, for the
lawyer had often voyaged with him in the Lord Liver-
pool, the little sailing packet plying once a week
between Sydney and Port Hunter before the days of
steam.
“My client does not seem to possess your esteem,
Captain?” he laughed. “Perhaps you misjudge him.”
“Aye, Mr. Freebody—mebbe. But I know him —
1 know the damned scoondrel too well! But you
lawyers —oh, you lawyers! Why, you’d defend Judas
himself for a fee, an’ believe, quite honest-like, he was
an injured being, cruelly misjudged. That ye would!
Y’r ain side’s always innocent an’ free from blame.
But would ye ask Tom Hogben to dine wi’ ye?”
Mr. Freebody laughed and shrugged his shoulders
as he glanced overside at the moving panorama of
rich and fertile lands.
“Captain,” he asked, “where on earth did you
pick up that splendid specimen of manhood who re-
cently assisted at the wheel? Egad, I don’t know when
I’ve seen such a sample of vigorous youth.”
“Yon mighty big lad that went to attend to the
stowage o’ the hay in the fore-hold —is it him yc mean,
Mr. Freebody? A fine young man, an’ guid to look
at —aye, he’s all that, sir. And as guid as he looks. I
could do wi’ him as my chief officer, instead o' the
silly old loon I’ve got. He’s the bos’n—an’ a damned
guid bos’n, too. Benny the Bull they ca’ the lad—
because of his name, I suppose.”
“Benny the Bull—Benny the Bull?” repeated Mr.
Freebody in a puzzled fashion, striving to recall where
and when he had heard the nickname before.
“His name’s Benjamin Bullivant,” replied Cap-
tain Taggart, “and there’s some mystery aboot the
lad, I'm thinkin’. He’s no juist y’r common sailorman,
that Benny the Bull. I misdoot he’s something better.
Why, then, George Freebody, what’s ailing ye, then?”
“Heavens!” exclaimed Mr. Freebody. “I remem-
ber now. That night in Mick Malone’s Bunch o’
The Bunch o' Grapes Tavern —
a great, bare apartment, crowded
with rough-looking men and
misty with strong tobacco
smoke.
Grapes Tavern when I went looking for him, and they
told me of his fight with the constables!
“Come, Captain—come for’ard with me till I
interview this young man. I promise you’ll learn
something about him that’ll astound you. Well, well,
this is very fortunate! Very fortunate indeed!”
"THROUGH the little groups of top-hatted gentle-
-1 men and ample-skirted ladies in coal-scuttle
bonnets who stood by the paddle-boxes the captain and
Mr. Freebody made their way for’ard of the tall,
raking funnel abaft the paddles until they came to the
fore-hold. They looked over the low coaming of the
hatch down into the “Puffing Billy’s” interior. Juggling
heavy bales of hay as though they were bonnet-boxes
toiled the boatswain, stripped to his braces and a pair
of tarry canvas breeches that had once been white.
“Ben Bullivant!” bellowed the captain, cupping
his hands about his mouth to overcome the roaring
voice of the exhaust. “Benny, ma laddie! Come up
here —-this gentleman has a wor-rd or twa tae whisper
in y’r lug.”
The little settlement of Raymond Terrace, just
below the junction of the Williams River, was show-
ing across the level plains where there were gaps in
the forest, and the sight of the scattered village, half-
way house between Newcastle and the Australian
Agricultural Company’s headquarters at Stroud, re-
called the shipmaster to his duties.
“This is Mr. George Freebody, Ben —a Sydney
solicitor, who wants a wor-rd wi’ ye. I must awa’ up
on the paddle-boxes, for we’re nigh the Terrace. Be
ready wi’ the line directly—we’re no very far awa
frae yon wharf.”
The giant swung himself on deck with an agility
surprising in so big a man, and stood staring down at
the prim and precise little figure of the top-hatted,
black-coated solicitor. A bellow from the steam fog-
horn—which still sent the Hunter River children
screaming to their mothers’ skirts —greeted Raymond
Terrace.
“Stand by!” roared Captain Taggart down into
the open engine-room skylight. “Ease her!
“Stand by!” echoed his chorus on deck. “Ease
her!”
“Stand by!” shouted the engineer in his den.
“Ease her!”
“Good morning, sir,” said Mr. Freebody, affably
extending his hand to the young man. I believe I
have the honor of addressing Sir Benjamin Bullivant,
of Bullivant Hall in Kent. Very glad to make your
acquaintance at last, Sir Benjamin. I have long been
searching for you. Your late father’s solicitors, Messrs.
Giles and Bateson, of Gray’s Inn, communicated with
me last year, but hitherto I have been unable to find
any trace of you —except once, on the evening when
you had some slight difference with the police at
Michael Malone’s Bunch o’ Grapes Tavern. Then
you disappeared”
“As I’m damned well going to do now!” shouted
the big man, bending as he ran below Captain Tag-
gart’s thwartship promenade. He paused a moment
for’ard of the funnel to take his leave of the astonished
captain. “Good-bye to ye, Cap’n Taggart —I’m going
to cut my lucky.”
Paralysed with amazement, Mr. Freebody stared
at the flying figure, saw the half-naked man race aft
as the stern of the William the Fourth swung close
into the wharf, watched him spring on to the gunwale
and achieve a most astonishing jump to the wooden
quayside across what looked like fifteen feet of swirling,
muddy waters stirred up by the paddles as they went
astern.
He landed on the decking of the wharf with not
an inch to spare, stumbled forward on to hands and
knees, stood erect a moment, and then charged through
the little crowd of country folk congregated to gaze
upon the wonderful steamship, sweeping them aside
with his long arms and disappearing behind the huge
stone building.
From his elevated perch Captain Taggart saw him
run through the houses of the village into the scrub
behind it.
“Weel, I’ll be damned!” he gasped. “The like o
that, noo!”
“Ah, weel,” he said to Mr. Freebody later, seated
on his right hand at the long, narrow dinner-table in
the cabin, as they passed down the river by Tomago,
“I’m thinkin’, my friend, that yon’s the verra last view
ye’ll hae o’ Sirr Benjamin, or that I’ll hae o’ my guid
bos’n —warse luck! A splendid fellie, sir, a gran’
fellie! I know his sort, I’ve met ’em afore, a-knockin'
about the warld. A title and the estate in Kent don’t
count wi’ such as him against the freedom of his
manhood. In years tae come, mebbe, he’ll hae his
regrets, but not yet a while. ’Tis the open, free warld
wi’ such fellies as yon Benny the Bull.”
Feast Where You Will.
Crouched hi choirs above the town
The pungas and the pines look down,
Singing from the book of gorse
To the toitoi in its tassefled sheet
With wahine leaves around its feet,
Weeping, wailing with remorse.
O, Ratana sent two shepherds old to me:
Through the fern-hills by the hawthorn road they came,
Riding on dreaming horses, knee to knee,
Their dyed rugs mingling like the gorse aflame.
They put their wrinkled hands upon my breast,
And leant upon my neck and called me “Friend”;
They kissed me with the long kiss of unrest,
And spoke to me the language of Land’s End.
Their shadows lay among the river’s gold,
Their white beards and faint songs drew me away:
Warm were their gestures as they smiled and told
Of tribes and feasts at Ratana that day.
“Leave, leave,” they said, “the white man and the plough
That lies in rusty sleep upon the hill,
And come again to Ratana, remembering how
In plaited wheat the river’s mouth smiles still.
Kura of the ember hair will come,
And Tango of the open hand and mind,
And Ngotu with the great voice like a drum.
Then ride with us,” said they, “and leave behind
This city set in splendor by the sea.
No peace is here. Believe not those who praise.
Look to these skies where stands the tyranny
Of clocks and bells that measure out its days.
Time is a forest full of falling trees;
Who knows what man shall see when all are down?
Will God, the axeman, bring us to our knees
And mingle all the barks, white, black and brown?
Ask not, for peace is answering us so slow
That we shall all be dead before it tells.
Roads are wiser than questions. Let us go
Crying ‘E te tangata!’ to the long-lost wells.
The cooking fires unwrap their dusky scrolls,
Grass-robed, reed-voiced, the tribes await the meat.
For them the fish have ripened in their shoals,
And the apple made her flush more dark and sweet.”
I followed them by high road and by low,
Through hills that told the hours with fading looks,
Past fires that leapt like dancers on tiptoe,
Dancing to melodies of winds and brooks.
But never the roofs of Ratana saw I,
Never the red carved walls, the outflung door,
The happy tribe, the long smoke in the sky,
In the pah beside the sea-abandoned shore.
MAORILAND.
EVE LANGLEY.


He jumped up on to the step and saw dad grinning
down at him. “Can 1 come right up to town with
you, dad?” he said, sitting in next to the driver’s
seat.
“Did you tell your mother where you were
going?”
Li was about to say no, but felt that dad wouldn’t
like that. “Yes,” he lied, and knew that that was
what dad wanted him to say.
“What did she say?”
“She didn’t say nothin’.”
“All right then, I’ll take you up to town and
back.” And as the bus jerked forward, “Have you
been a good boy?”
“Yes. Can I have threepence to spend in town?”
“We’ll see. How’s Mary?”
“All right.”
“Does she ever ask after me?”
“Not often. Mr. Jim’s taking her and mum to
the conjuror’s to-night.”
“Oh? And what about you?”
“Mary said I was too young to understand it, and
Mr. Jim said it was too late coming ou't. What’s a
conjuror, dad?”
“Oh, just a man who makes things disappear,
and makes fools of people. There’s lots around.”
Li couldn’t understand why dad laughed at that.
‘ Gee, I’d like to see one. Couldn’t you and me go?”
“If your mother will let you come, I’ll take you
Saturday. It’s my day off.”
Sitting in Mr. Jim’s car, Li couldn’t help thinking
of the bonzer afternoon he’d had. Mum had let dad
take him to the conjuror’s, and he’d never thought
there was such magic in the world. How could any-
one saw a young lady in half and then stick her
together again? And the pigeons and ducks and white
rabbits all coming out of a hat. And turning ordinary
water into beer. Cripes, Mr. Jim would like to be
able to do that! Mr. Jim must have been thinking
of beer, too, for here they were pulling up outside the
hotel, near where dad’s bus started.
“Now don’t get out of the car,” said mum. “You
watch him, Mary. We won’t be long.”
A bus pulled in, and Li leaned out to see if dad
was on it.
“You needn’t worry,” said Mary, “he’s not on
to-night. That’s why we came round here.”
Why did Mary seem to hate dad? And why
didn’t mum and Mr. Jim want to see dad? Li with-
drew his head. “Anyhow, I’d sooner ride in dad’s
bus than this thing.”
“Mum says, if you take after him, you’ll probably
be driving a bus, too, one of these days. That’s about
all you’ll be good for.”
“I’d like to be a bus-driver, too. Dad gets plenty
of money for driving the bus.”
“He does not,” snapped Mary. “Mum says if it
wasn’t for Mr. Jim she’d have to go out to work.”
Li gave it up. Dad got a lot of money for driv-
ing the bus. Anyhow, why couldn’t dad live with
them as well as Mr. Jim? There was plenty of room
in the big new house they’d taken. “I’ll bet if mum
asked dad to come and live with us he’d do it like a
shot.”
Mary sniffed. “Not much chance of that. Mum
and dad aren’t married any more.”
Mum and dad not married any more? What did
Mary mean? How could— —
There was dad coming across the street. He’d
ask him if it was true that mum and him weren’t
married any more? “Dad . . . dad!”
But dad had turned and was striding towards the
hotel. He was out of the car and racing across the
street before Mary had time to stop him. And there
was dad standing in front of mum and Mr. Jim, and
shouting and waving his arms. “What’s the idea,
keeping my kids out till this time of night hanging
around a dirty pub!” dad was yelling.
And then Li hid his face, for dad and Mr. Jim
were tearing at each other, and mum was crying out
for someone to stop them, but nobody in the crowd
that had come surging round took any notice of her.
“Clean him up!” a man shouted, but Li didn’t know
whether he meant dad or Mr. Jim.
Li fled back to the car and, sobbing with fear
and shame, threw himself on the floor.
“It’ll serve him right if he gets pinched,” said
Mary. “Mum said she’d call a policeman next time he
spoke to her in the street.”
A FTER a while things seemed quieter, and, looking
** across the street, Li saw a policeman’s head above
the crowd. Mum was shouting, “It’s the last time he’ll
pester me in the street. The police told him to keep
away from me.”
“It’s not her, it’s my kids,” dad was shouting at
the policeman.
A gap opened in the crowd, through which the
policeman was leading dad, who was still shouting
and pointing at mum and Mr. Jim. They were going
to take him away! Li felt an uncontrollable terror
grip him. “Dad . . . dad!” he screamed, but Mr.
Jim, with blood on his face and shirt, was getting into
the car.
HIS PLACE
BY DON EDWARDS.
THE morning had been dull, with a grey sky that
drizzled a fine rain, but after midday the clouds
started to break and show patches of blue. From
where he sat, bent over the table, his big body
hunched and his shoulders drooping, he could see out
the window and across the wide verandah. He didn't
mind the rain, and he would have been outside long
before this if it hadn’t been for Nora. She seemed to
think he couldn’t look after himself, always fussing
about him, making him change his shoes, put on his
scarf, go to bed early, as if he was so old that he
couldn’t be trusted.
Slowly he stood up and walked to the door.
Water was dripping on to the verandah, making a wet,
uneven margin along its edge. The clouds were float-
ing apart, seeming to slide over the tops of the ranges.
Suddenly, the sun shone through, hot and glaring, to
send up humid mists from the gravel paths and the
ploughed strips in the orchard. He smiled, and care-
fully stepped on to the verandah. Now he would be
able to go outside.
“Father, father,” he could hear Nora calling, but
he didn’t answer. Shuffling along, he crossed the wet
boards and went down the steps to the garden. The
sound of Nora’s quick, determined footsteps came to
him as she entered the kitchen, and then her voice
saying, “Do you think you should go pottering about
outside, father? The ground is very wet.”
“I’m all right,” he said, in a voice that let her
know he was determined to go.
“If you see Richard down at the lucerne paddocks
tell him I want to see him before the visitors arrive,”
she said, shrugging her shoulders.
He wondered who were coming, and he had a mind
to ask her, but her request had made him suspicious
again that there was something afoot between her and
Richard. He couldn’t make out what it was, but he
had lived with his son and daughter-in-law long
enough to know when they were keeping something
from him. If it was important he would find out about
it soon enough, he thought.
A little way from the house the path divided
round a wooden hut made of rough slabs. A big.
stone chimney jutted from one wall, the small windows
were without glass and the door swung loose on rusted
hinges.
Before the hut he stopped and let the hot sun
sink into his body. For a long time he stood there
feeling the warmth as if it were trying to drive out
his age. He could smell the warm dampness of the
newly-turned earth, and the wet pine needles as pun-
gent as smouldering leaves. He could hear the water
still running from the roof into the big corrugated-
iron tank, with a whispering sound like the murmur
of the hot night breezes in summer. Everything re-
minded him of the vigorous, pulsing life about him
and of his own age.
He sheltered from the harshness of the contrast
by letting his thoughts go back to the time when he
had first come here as a young man. With the hut
before him this was always easy. Every part of it
had been built by him —the stone chimney, the great
corner beams he had cut in the valley near the falls,
the big sandstone doorstep from the gorge where the
river rushed in white rapids out of the ranges.
He sat down on the log that served as a seat, let-
ting his back rest against the rough slabs of the wall.
The orchard spread, green and orderly, to the creek,
beyond which the wheatfields climbed over the slopes.
In the distance were the blue ranges, with bars of
cloud cutting across them. He had come over those
mountains alone, leading his horses down the steep
slopes, turning back again and again from the cliffs at
the heads of the valleys, camping at night beside great
rocks or in the shelter of clumps of snow-gums.
He looked at the house with its wide verandahs
and appearance of comfort. His wife would have
liked it, would have appreciated it more than Richard
and Nora had. In those days the hut had been sur-
rounded by timber. There had been no orchard, no
fields of wheat, no cattle along the flats or woolshed
standing over near the limestone hill; only the hut,
solid and lonely and rough, with a clearing in front
of it, and on all sides the vigorous and hostile bush.
Others, not knowing the place as he had known
it, would never appreciate what he had achieved, but
as he looked at the big house he felt proud and almost
young again. He sat there allowing the sun to pour
warmth over him, and feeling the deep satisfaction
and contentment that he always felt when he visited
the hut.
He saw Nora walk on to the verandah and look
towards him in surprise. Then he heard her call to
him in a petulant voice, “What are you doing there,
father? I thought you were going to tell Richard I
wanted him.”
“I’ll go now,” he replied.
“The visitors will probably be here by the time
you get to Richard,” she said.
A FTER dinner he sat in the corner near the fire-
place, half-hidden from the others by the big arm-
chair. This was always his position. “Grandfather’s
corner,” the children called it. In winter he would
draw the chair closer to the fire and think of the frost-
bound countryside that lay without the room and
the snow deep on the tops of the ranges. When the
wind moaned about the house and rattled the windows
it reminded him of that first night he had spent on the
place. He had camped down near the river, in the
shelter of the bluff, and late at night the wind had
got up, showering the sparks from his fire and sighing
through the tossing branches of the she-oaks. Ever
since, a strong wind at night had brought back those
memories vividly, and he had recaptured the joy he
had felt on realising that this was to be his place and
that it was good country.
He dragged his attention back to the people in
the room and wondered what Tom Strong, his wife
and brother could be wanting. He knew that Richard
and Nora were friendly with them, and he supposed
it was only a friendly visit, but the Strongs lived in
town, over forty miles away, and that was a good dis-
tance to come late in the afternoon. He hoped they
wouldn’t stay for the night. He didn’t like Tom
Strong. Especially he disliked the fellow’s habit of
putting managers on his properties while he and his
wife lived in the town.
He looked at the others, suspicious again that there
was something on hand and wondering what it might
be, but their talk gave him no inkling of any sort, so
he tried to put aside his misgivings and join in the
conversation.
“That’s not so, Mr. Strong,” he said abruptly.
“It’s impossible to run cattle all the year up on the
high plains where the river rises. The land is marshy
and sour; besides it’s too cold in winter.”
They laughed, rather self-consciously, as if he
had said something wrong. Nora said quickly and
with a touch of annoyance in her voice, “Don’t take
any notice of father, Mr. Strong. He thinks he’s the
only one who knows anything about these parts.”
“I’ve been up there with cattle,” he said, “and
I know. The snow is feet deep in winter.”
Nora turned on him and said, “That was about
fifty years ago, father.”
He felt that this was no argument, and had a mind
to say so, but remained silent. Nora always seemed to
be intent on reminding him of his age. He sat there
silent, his head bent, gazing at the floor. Occasion-
ally they threw him a remark and he answered “Yes”
or “No,” without offering any opinions of his own.
After a while he said “I think I’ll go to bed.”
“Won’t you wait for supper?” his son asked.
“No, thanks. Good night.” He stood up and
shuffled slowly from the room.
Out in the hall he stopped and listened. The
talk in the room seemed to take on a livelier note as
if his departure had removed a restraining influence,
but it was all about life in the town, dances, shows
qnd races.
His bedroom was warm, so he did not go to bed
at once, but sat near the window looking out on the
moonlit night. From where he sat he could see the
black, serrated wall of the pines and, closer, the dark
clumps and masses of the garden shrubs and bushes,
with the old hut standing square in the centre of the
white gravel clearing where the paths met. He wan-
dered about the room, sat on the bed and listened to
the bursts of laughter and talk that came from the
lounge-room. There seemed to be no peace for him in
the house.
In the moonlight the hut looked quiet and peace-
ful. He had always been happy there, even in those
early days when success had seemed far off and the
work had been desperately hard. The hut meant more
to him than the others could ever understand. Only
his wife would have known its importance. It was a
symbol of his achievements, a tie binding him to the
past that was becoming more and more important to
him as the present grew less satisfactory. It was his
place in a world that seemed to have no other place
for him. Always he could find peace in it.
Carefully, so as not to make a sound, he left the
room, sidled slowly down the hall and went outside
towards the hut. The old door creaked on its hinges.
He shut it carefully. The moon shone through the
windows, lighting the interior dimly so that he could
see the shelves along the wall where they once kept
supplies, the places where the bunks had been, the
old furniture heaped in the comer. He put a chair in
the corner near the stone chimney and sat staring into
the black cavern of the fireplace.
A wind started to sigh through the pines and
murmur about the hut, whispering of the hills and
trees and crops outside. The moonlight slanted across
the darkness of the room, slowly creeping towards him
till it shone on his legs and body and face. A branch
outside, caught by the wind, took to brushing against
the wall, the sound of it coming soothingly through
the hut.
He had been sitting there a long time when a door
slammed up at the house. He heard voices, sounds
of laughter, the crunching of feet on gravel. Jumping
up he stepped to the window and saw the others com-
ing down the moonlit path towards the hut. He would
stand there quietly till they went past. Drawing back
into the gloom he waited.
They stopped outside, and he heard the latch rattle
and the door creak in opening as Nora’s voice, light
and apologetic, came to him. “I warn you, Mr.
Strong, that it’s all dirt and rubbish inside, but father
calls it his place, so we don’t like to touch it. Tt’s
an eyesore though, stuck right in the front of the
house, but when you take the property over you can
have it pulled down.”


a spy in his own party while running guns for Ireland.
It then jumps five years till 1921, when young Ben, his
son, goes to Ireland to find the man who sent his
father to 15 years’ imprisonment.
The book has most of the elements of the con-
ventional spy-hunt story, the shifts and dodges, the
suspense and surprises and the final victory of the
man in the right, but it is shown against a back-
ground of reality. The rush of events in Ireland, dur-
ing an acute period when the Black and Tans were
harrying the villages and the republican bands were
fighting in the hills, a law to themselves, serving out
their own rough justice, living dangerously on the
brink of famine and disaster, fills out the rather thin
plot.
The author is writing from personal experience
and with passion. It is a tormented book with its
quick spatter of events like bullets from a machine-
gun, its horde of continually changing characters and
racy, pelting dialogue. Through danger, murder and
flight life goes on. Ben survives and finds love.
Neither Ben nor any of the others has much character ;
they are dwarfed by events and the author has no
time for subtleties.
A Servant of the Queen is a larger, more leisurely
book, and if Ireland’s tragedy is its subject it is well
wrapped round with the author’s personal success.
Maud Gonne was a beautiful rebel, and the queen she
served was not Victoria, but Cathleen ni Houlihan, the
mystic personification of Ireland.
Her father was Irish, a colonel in a British regi-
ment, her mother was English and died young, and
she had, besides, an admixture of French and Scots
blood. She was born into a favored class, and her
conversion to the cause of Ireland came suddenly as
a thunderclap when she was a girl of 16 staying in
the house of one of Ireland’s great landowners. While
the house party was enjoying itself she discovered,
with horror, that some of her host’s evicted tenants
were dying of cold and hunger. She left immediately
and never acquiesced again in the life to which she
had been brought up.
Everything came to her with drama. She lived
with elan and was successful in everything she
attempted—except perhaps her marriage, and there
was a legend in the family that none of the daughters
of Gonne would be happy in marriage because of a
curse a wise woman had put on them for their sins
against the Irish land. Maud was one of the most
beautiful women of her day, and her influence was
immense. She ran like fire through the imagination
of everyone she met and persuaded them to work as
hard for the cause as she did herself.
First she threw herself and her fortune into the
relief of evicted tenants in Ireland, but realising that
this did not go to the root of the trouble she went to
Paris and began to ventilate Ireland’s wrongs on the
platform and in the press ; later she toured America
lecturing and raising funds. for the amnesty society
to liberate Irish political prisoners.
Visiting some of the men in Portland gaol she
told them confidently that they would be released and
when. The fight had only just begun, but her prophecy
in the dark was exactly fulfilled. Wherever there was
trouble there was Maud Gonne, the beautiful stormy
petrel. She broke a famine in Mayo by gathering a
huge crowd of the starving peasants, and with it black-
mailing the relief officers into doubling the dole from
6d. to Is. a day, changing the relief work from aim-
less digging to setting a new crop of potatoes. Her
political methods were unconventional and had a dash
and humor that added gaiety to a world full enough
of darkness.
She writes lightly and brightly of her experiences,
and only occasionally does the deeply-felt bitterness
break through, as when she points out that during
Queen Victoria’s reign, vaunted as one of the most
prosperous in history, “1,225,000 people died of famine
in Ireland; 4,186,000 emigrated ; 3,663,000 were
evicted from houses they or their fathers had built.”
There are many pages that read like melodrama.
Once a servant stole some of her private papers and
sent them to the editor of a scurrilous rag in Paris.
He proceeded to blackmail her with a threat of pub-
lication. She went to a rifle-range where he was
wont to amuse himself and suggested, as if on an im-
pulse, that they should have a contest. With three
shots she scored three bull’s-eyes. After this lesson
she told him that she was an enthusiastic supporter
of woman’s equality to man —even to duelling. She
heard no more of blackmail.
Once in Aix she was very short of funds for the
cause, but a fortune-teller whom she met casually told
her to go to the Casino that afternoon and play till
five o’clock. She did and won £4OOO. It was exactly
the sum she needed. When she played on her own
behalf she always lost. She believed herself to be
psychic. She suffered from insomnia brought on by
overwork, and began drugging herself rather heavily.
This was in Paris. Friends kept writing to her to say
they had seen her in London, in Dublin and else-
where, and why hadn’t she stopped to speak to them?
These “apparitions” always occurred when she was
lying in a drugged sleep.
Afterwards, she declares, she could will herself
to visit her friends first with the aid of the drug and
then without it. One man would not believe her until
she described his room, which she had never seen, and
even told him that he had worn red flannel round his
neck for a sore throat one night. Her cousin used to
hide the drug from her, but she always found it —
even when it was hidden under the ashes in the fire-
place in the maid’s room. She decided to give up the
habit, and did so at once.
She had, too, a familiar, or Ka, a beautiful dark
woman who had appeared to her now and then since
she was a child. At first she believed her to be an
aspect of herself, and would send her on errands
which she always accomplished. Then the Ka began
to take on a character of her own, and Maud noticed
that she hated children and had some other evil traits
which she certainly didn’t share. When she confessed
that she had murdered a child Maud tried to get rid
of her, but for a long time she was a great nuisance.
In Ireland Maud Gonne was loved and revered.
She was acclaimed as a woman of the Sidhe, and in
Mayo was thought to be the woman of Brian Ruadh’s
prophecy “that there would be a famine and that a
woman dressed in green would come and preach the
revolt.”
“Willie” (W. B.) Yeats was one of her most per-
sistent suitors, and he wrote The Countess Cathleen
for her, but she refused to act in it as she feared the
great pleasure it would give her would distract her
from her work. She married John Macßride, who
had fought for the Boers, just after that war. The
book ends with them going off to Spain for a revolu-
tionary renewal of their honeymoon. The story is
full of humor and anecdote with an undercurrent of
passion. It makes good reading.
"First Musician of the World."
That is the way Lawrence Gilman, music critic
of the New York “Herald-Tribune,” describes Arturo
Toscanini in Toscanini and Great Music (John Lane).
From which it may be gathered that Mr. Gilman
is an enthusiastic admirer of the conductor whose
interpretations of various symphonic masterpieces,
alas! come to Australia only through the seven veils
of gramophonic reproduction or the 17 veils of radio
broadcasts of these recordings. Mr. Gilman makes
no pretence of being critical. He places his hero on
a high altar and piles a galaxy of verbal wreaths
upon it.
Bernard Shaw, interested in reports of Toscanini’s
conducting, wrote to an American friend: “Tell me
about this man ; is he sober, honest and industrious?”
Mr. Gilman paints a picture of a musician who is
all these things and many more —a striver for perfec-
tion who realises, as did the mystic poet Blake, that
“the enormous and the minute are interchangeable
manifestations of the Eternal,” and who veritably
re-creates from the cold symbols of the scores the
living dream of an inspired composer.
The greater part of Toscanini and Great Music
is taken up with a leisurely disquisition upon those
works in which Toscanini’s genius has been best
exemplified—certain symphonies of Haydn, Beethoven,
Schubert, Brahms and Sibelius, the “La Mer” of
Debussy and the later Wagnerian operas. Commen-
tators such as Mr. Gilman, who combines boundless
zeal with a taste for anecdote, undoubtedly help the
good work of increasing the appreciation of great
music.
Ships That Sank.
In Abandon Ship (Hodder and Stoughton) Vice-
Admiral Gordon Campbell has written a completely
objective and very refreshing group of sea stories,
sedulously founded on fact and dealing with some of
the obscure shipwrecks in history. The tales include
piracy in Morocco, death on the ice when H.M.S.
Primrose went ashore on Neuwerk Island in 1799,
and a very long account of H.M. ship Alceste, which
suffered wreck, fire and capture off the China coast
in 1815.
The briefest and most telling of the stories is that
of H.M.Ss. St. George and Defence, wrecked in the
Baltic on convoy duty during the Napoleonic wars,
when England was blockading the Continent. The
disaster fell on Christmas Day, 1811. On that one day
England lost four ships—the St. George, with which
perished 853 men out of her crew of 865 ; the Defence,
from which only six were saved out of 544 ; the Hero,
with a loss of all but 12 ; and the Grasshopper, which
surrendered with ail hands.
In the story of the first two ships the book touches
tragic heights for the first and last time. In tempest
and darkness the St. George, with Admiral Reynolds
aboard, ran on an uncharted shoal off the Danish
coast. The mainmast was cut away, the ship lightened,
and she was refloated, but her rudder was gone and
she was unmanageable in heavy seas. The next night
she struck again. Helpless and defenceless, her crew
froze to death in heaps on her deck or were swept
into the sea. The rest of the flotilla sailed away to
safety except Captain David Atkins, -of the Defence,
who, refusing to desert the admiral he could not help,
stood by till his ship was piled up on the same reef.
His senseless and expensive valor found much favor
with the Admiralty. The finding of the court-martial
read: —•
The Defence was lost by getting ashore on the
west coast of Jutland in company with H.M.S. St.
George, in consequence of the noble and heroic deter-
mination of her captain to stay to the last by his
admiral at a moment of extreme danger and distress,
conduct which in the opinion of the Court will reflect
immortal honor on the dead Captain Atkins, and are
further of opinion that no blame whatever is imputable
to the officers and ship’s company or the survivors.
The captain had perished with his ship.
This is a divergence from the general tenor of the
book. Campbell can make naval disaster seem adven-
turously pleasant and strictly regular. His story of the
wreck of the East Indiaman Antelope, which opens the
book, is positively cosy. She ran aground in the Pelew
Islands in the South Seas, and Captain Wilson and his
crew got safely ashore on a beautiful island abounding
in natural food resources. Most of the valuables were
salvaged out of the ship and everyone behaved very
well. On one of their visits to the wreck a slight
incident occurred. “Scrambling over the. reefs had
been strenuous work, so Mr. Benger had served out a
tot of rum, but the subsequent heavy work of moving
stores had induced some of the crew to take more
spirit than was good for them, and having had nothing
to eat they inadvertently became intoxicated.” After
this lapse they agreed to have all the casks stove in.
When the natives appeared they turned out to be
savages of the noble variety. Their king, Abba Thule,
made a royal progress through the castaways’ camp
and was immensely impressed with everything, par-
ticularly the muskets. He was treated with all the
civility due to royalty, and his permission was asked
to build another vessel. Abba Thule granted it and
brought the castaways many presents. He also had
the wit to borrow armed sailors to help him against
his enemies, and during their sojourn polished off all
the surrounding islands to his immense satisfaction.
The sailors themselves seem to have found dab-
bling in native wars a good and quite harmless game.
Everybody was pleased except the king’s enemies, who
were not given the option. There is a lot of detail
about camp discipline and the building of the relief
ship, called Oroolong after the island, which has an
agreeable shipshape-cwm-Robinson Crusoe flavor
about it.
When the time came to part Abba Thule “wept
like a child and sent his son Lee 800 to be educated
in England.” Lee 800 had most exemplary manners.
“Gradually he became pleased to be dressed the same
as other seamen, and was so modest in his habits that
he would not even change his shirt in the presence of
other people.” He died of smallpox in London.
Writing books for boys seems to have given the
author a rather too tender solicitude for the morals of
his readers, and the present book has a purpose. “In
these days when it is customary to take everything for
granted, it is well to pause and ask what has made
us a great nation, and how can we preserve that great-
ness?” All the tales are about very pukka ships and
illustrate the virtues of the navy. The accompanying
pictures, from old woodcuts, are very appropriate to
the matter, and have that slightly toylike appearance
which goes very well with the objectivity and placid
assurance of the narrative.
Thrillers.
In The Man Who Didn’t Exist (Eyre and Spottis-
woode ; Dymock’s) Geoffrey Homes has a good idea
worked out to a fairly satisfactory finish. A young
reporter —American variety—discovers a coat lying
on a deserted beach, with footsteps leading from it
to the sea and none returning. To the coat is fastened
a short note intimating that the writer intends to
drown himself, and the note is signed with “the name
of one of the most widely-read writers of mystery"
novels in the world.”
Everyone knows that the name is a nom de plume,
but no one knows who really owns the nom de plume ;
not even the publisher of the novels, for they have
always been sent in anonymously with instructions to
send proofs or payment or any other communications
to a post-office box rented in the same mysterious
manner. Has there been a suicide at all, or is the whole
thing a publicity stunt? Who is the owner Of the nom
de plume; and, if that owner has committed suicide,
why? To these questions a little investigation by the
reporter adds others. Why has the body not turned
up? Has it been a case of murder? It becomes still
more complicated when three other deaths most
certainly murders —are added to the original doubtful
one. Robin Bishop, the reporter, and Mary, his wife,
both bright young people—a trifle too bright—solve
the mystery and win a scoop.
Death Has a Past (Michael Joseph ; F. W. Preece,
Ltd.) is Anita Boutell’s second thriller. If she con-
tinues to turn out others as good as this one and its
predecessor — Tell Death to Wait —it will not be long
before she is well known. She writes with skill and
polish, her plots are ingenious and her characters are
real people. Despite the fact that extracts from “a
confession of murder” are interpolated at various
points along the story, the solution (and, indeed, the
true nature of the mystery itself) is not revealed until
the very end, and the revelation then comes with that
complete surprise which is the hallmark of the good
thriller.
With one exception all the characters in Death
Has a Past are women ; all are members of the one
family, either by birth or marriage. Feuds and
struggles, jealousies and hates divide them, and the
tension is finely maintained throughout.
Albert Payson Terhune, the American writer,
usually writes a yarn concerned in some way or other
with dogs, and The Mystery of Grudge Mountain
(Chapman and Hall ; Dymock’s) follows precedent.
One of the leading “characters” is the dog Gray
Dawn, whose activities have already formed the theme
of a book bearing his name.
The plot of The Mystery of Grudge Mountain is
as involved as it is extravagant: secret treasures, lost
tribes, bandits, twin identities, unexplained and in-
explicable appearances and disappearances, beautiful
but mysterious girls and other melodramatic acces-
sories. There is too much altogether for the money.
It is a relief to turn from the Terhunian absurdi-
ties to the good-humored thrills of Cyril Alington’s
Crime on the Kennet (Collins ; Dymock’s). Mr. Aling-
ton is no less a personage than the Dean of Durham
Cathedral and was once headmaster of Eton ; he has
bridged the gulf between the cloth and the criminal
with remarkable success.
Crime on the Kennet, a brilliant bit of work,
lacks a corpse ; but at least murder threatens, and
there is a feast of minor pleasantries, ranging from
arson to theft and from abduction to blackmail. Miss
Susan Granham is a most pleasing amateur sleuth.
Her brother, too, the “Head” of Harton School, with
a penchant for puns, is a man to know. Mr. Gran-
ham’s opening remark that he has never kept a
cockatoo, but that he once had a gardener who kept
a hen or two, sets the tune. A person who lives in
what had been a “Manor House” naturally calls it
"Vir sive domus.” Mr. Alington needs educating on
the matter of the “Purple Cow.” The author of that
noble quatrain is not unknown ; Gellett Burgess, the
American poet, composed it; nor was it some other
anonymous party” who produced its almost equally-
famous sequel—it was Gellett Burgess who did that,
too.
Alington’s love of cricket, so often exhibited in
his previous writings, does not fail him here. His
chapter on a “Wiltshire Cricket Match” is a particu-
larly joyful interlude in an altogether charming book.


Y
/
>
/ /
/
X
A
%
w
/
/
e
/.
i
A
/!
ft"
A
9B
V
■■ 8
W
’msssssssrA
i
M
■
:v
#
m
mm
1
1 /
«
■
/ /
' /
/
/ /
/ /i
/
/ /
/
/
IT S NEW €N€RCY
/
/
* /
WITHIN YOU NEED
Fires and radiators are but a super-
ficial aid to warmth . . . Tooheys
Oatmeal Stout supplies essential
warmth to the whole body. It is
strengthening without fattening.
" Here's To'ee
/
MM
wm
m
n
B
~i ii T y7m, y rTC
mm
m
m
■ :
3 1
a
i*
$ I
■
m
... rS-iWOES;.
I
m
B
TOOHEYS
ST
V
yew*. p
f THE SAME
PRICE AS
OR DINARY
&.j£
u
STO
T
.
IN THE STOUT
W|SSSS& |j
U I ILL
■
iff


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
// fan'll ‘tyme fai/ie rnellcnv^neJ^unddvuquei
Port of London Authority Headquarters, Tower Hill.
Tt is appropriate that the executive
centre of the body which controls the
machinery by which the greatest com-
mercial shipping port the world has ever
known should be located in one of the
most magnificent buildings London pos-
sesses. The Port of London Authority,
constituted in 1908, has in the brief
period of 31 years performed a work
the extent of which it is well-nigh im-
possible to realise, save that it has not
alone saved London as a port from the
evils which divided it and the frequently
inept interests which threatened it, but
by a boldly-conceived and -executed plan
assured for the London of the future that
pre-eminence as a marine mercantile em-
porium she now enjoys. The small body
of 28 businessmen comprising the
Authority, with an army of highly-
qualified assistants, no less than an
equally loyal but equally vast army of
workers, has more than justified its exist-
ence. Great and outstanding as are the
results of its administration of ‘ the Port
of London” in the peaceful arena of
commerce, the mind, on contemplating
the beautiful building created by the
genius of Sir Edwin Cooper, reverts to
the historical associations bound up for
all time with the site. Tower Hill in the
past was the usual place of execution
for “State criminals.” Every inch of the
site is impregnated with the blood of
some of the noblest men the race has
produced. It was on Tower Hill Lady
Raleigh lodged while her husband was
confined within the Tower. Here among
the host of martyrs were executed Lord
Guildford Dudley, husband of Lady Jane
Grey (1533), the Earl of Stratford (1641),
Archbishop Laud (1644), Sir Henry
Vane (1662), the great Sir (now Saint)
Thomas More (1535), Sir Algernon Sid-
ney (1638) and Lord Lovat (1747). Lovat
was not only the last person beheaded on
Tower Hill, but, happily, the last person
decapitated in Great Britain. Tower Hill
to-day also forms an approach to the
new Tower Bridge, while more than half
a century ago it was the entrance to the
then new subway under the Thames, a
strong iron tube, seven feet in diameter
in which, drawn by a stationary engine,
trains ran across the bed of the river to
the Tooley Street entrance. It has been
correctly said that much of the history
of England is comprehended in the two
words “Tower Hill.”


AT LAST, OR DILIGENCE REWARDED.
“Mr. Hughes suggested that some action might be taken within a few days to counter any attempt.at Nazi or other alien espionage in Australia. ‘The Investigation Branch
of my department is keeping a close watch on all suspects,’ Mr. Hughes said, ‘so that we may take what measures are necessary to counter any espionage.”
—"S. M. Herald.”
BLACKTRACKER BILLY: “Py corry, ole girl, you the, champion!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : "Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London.
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THAT "BOYCOTT."
Collecting his registration card and examining it,
after having read in his newspaper that the A.C.T.U.
had abandoned the “boycott,” Melbourne Trades Hall
Council dissenting, the average Australian naturally
wondered what all the fuss was about. He found
that he had to set forth his age last birthday, country
of birth, nationality, marital state, condition of health,
grade of occupation or if unemployed, craft or occu-
pation and in what industry or profession employed.
Eager to do a great deal more than that towards
ensuring the safety of his country if only given the
lead, he filled in the card, feeling a bit impatient at
the performance of both parties to the boycott wrangle.
Among the sideshows of the wrangle, he prob-
ably noted the hammer-and-sickle flag flying free over
a Sydney Domain meeting of boycotters. It would
have struck him as remarkable that the “S. M. Herald,”
in a report of the meeting beginning “The demonstra-
tion in the Domain was orderly,” made no mention
of the flag.
The flag would stick in his mind. It explained a
lot, and yet wasn’t so helpful. Plainly the boycotting,
he would have decided, had the Communists’ backing
—but why? Were not these the same people who had
been urging the importance of getting mixed up in
every war that had broken out for years past? Wasn’t
it they —with the curious support of blind-eyed old
ladies —who held J. Bull and his tribe to be curs for
not wading into Italy, Franco and Japan? Isn’t it
they who still urge that a war against Germany is
vital in the interest of democracy? Isn’t it they who
insist on an alliance with their Soviet Utopia, on the
Soviet’s own terms, in order to make the war they
want against Germany more attractive?
• The average Australian would know what was the
answer to those questions. Yet he noted that the boy-
cotters’ ostensible objection to filling in the National
Register forms boiled down to a fear that the Register
represented conscription. He knew very well that if
any one of the advocated wars should get started, con-
scription would have to be introduced in Australia
instantly. The only possible reading of this contra-
dictory riddle, he would have to admit, was that the
Communist breed want their war all right, but they do
not mean to be personally involved in it. Once it was
got going it could be left to the mugs to fight it out;
and when misery and disillusionment, the slaying of
the flower of the nation and general ruin and destruc-
tion had brought people to the lowest pitch of despair,
there would be some chance of getting the hammer-
and-sickle flag flying over the wreckage.
In his free and easy way the average Australian
dismissed the boycotters as somewhat beneath his con-
tempt, and signed the Register. His action in doing
so was an acknowledgment of his readiness to serve
his country to the best of his capacity if the need to
defend it should occur. If he had any hesitation about
the signing, it was probably a result of resentment at
the performance of the other side. In his view, there
must have been something abject in the emphatic re-
iteration by the law-makers that the law being defied
had nothing to do with anything so contaminating
to the democratic principle as compulsory national
service. Mr. Menzies was very insistent on this.
I can only repeat that the National Register has
nothing to do with conscription of any kind, military
or industrial.
He was then reiterating it for the umpteenth time. He
even received a telegram from arch-enemy Dr. Page,
conveying “best wishes for success in removing mis-
understandings which might interfere with the suc-
cessful result of the National Register”—the said
“misunderstandings” boiling down to only one: a
professed fear that the Register might lead to the re-
introduction of national training and service.
The average Australian must have viewed all that
political performance with concern, if not with disgust.
He gives credit to those who deserve it for what has
been done in the past year or two, and for what is still
being done, but he is painfully aware that this does
not represent adequate defence for Australia. He
believes the leaders of the R.S.L. when they tell him
that Australia will remain ill-defended until every one
of its few enough available men is trained for its
defence. He sees —the National Register squabble
making it very clear —that it would require political
courage to reintroduce such national training. The per-
formance of the politicians concerned in the squabble,
while Mr. Menzies brought all his cleverness to bear
and Mr. Curtin exhibited his talent for persuasion,
gives him no confidence that they possess the requisite
courage.
Therefore, the position as he sees it is that Aus-
tralia is to go on depending on voluntary effort on the
man-power side of its defence. When this slackens
off —as it certainly will—-there will have to be per-
formances like the recent one of Mr. Hughes to whip
it up again. It will have to be again represented that
“war is thundering at our gates” and national safety
“hanging by a thread.” The position is not a bit
better now than when Mr. Hughes was doing his
thundering ; if anything it is worse ; but the thunder
has ceased, the makeshift political object of inducing
a comparative handful of men to undergo training
which all fit men in the land should undergo having
been accomplished.
Without at all accepting the catchpenny SCare-
mongering that disfigures daily journalism, the posi-
tion is that there are pressing problems among nations
which, if they cannot be settled by talk, may lead to
war. That is the danger, and it is there all the
time, with plenty of warmongers at hand insisting
that nothing shall be done to ease it, and every
attempt to do so heaped under with condemnation
and abuse. In such a world, the state of Australia's
defences is a standing disgrace. It amounts—as the
average Australian is fully aware —to a miserable de-
pendence on the strength of Britain. And that, despite
the heroic efforts now being made by J. Bull, must be
a very doubtful quality in the sort of war that might
get going.
Then, J. Bull would have his hands more than
full looking after his own defence and his recent reck-
less commitments. With the best of intentions, he
could not send the necessary battle fleet to Singapore.
Australia, in a war got going in the next two years,
would be left to its own resources. The Australian
who likes to think highly of his country and generally
has good reason for doing so, must view J. Bull's
colossal effort —knowing to what extent the safety of
his own country is dependent on that effort —with
some feeling of shame.
For the effort in Britain is not restricted —as it is
here —to the training of such patriotic young men as
care to enlist, and to expenditure on armaments. J.B.
has had to realise that even to-day, with all the
mechanising of warfare, men still represent a country’s
strength in war. And that means trained men. And
that in turn—as not only the totalitarian countries, but
the democracies not so apparently favorably placed
as dependent Australia have all discovered —means
compulsory national service.
With that instituted, J.B. is looking to the man-
power side of his defence in a way that makes Aus-
tralia’s National Register appear a mere weak evasion.
J.B. now has 1,170,000 men enlisted, and the training
of them is going forward as fast as can be managed.
The man-power resources are being marshalled at a
remarkable rate: 170,000 new Territorials recruited in
two and a half months ; three-quarters of a million
recruited for home defence in four months. The lists
are still mounting, and this is being achieved despite
the efforts of “Peace” societies—J.B.’s equivalent of
Australia’s National Register boycotters.
If war broke out to-morrow compulsory national
service would be reintroduced here overnight. There
would be a scramble to get men trained for the job of
defending their country. Training takes time ; so, if it
came to fighting, the fighting would have to be done
by untrained men, and that, as well as being ineffec-
tual, would be wanton murder. In the face of that,
the average Australian, signing his Registration paper,
could not but feel concerned at the performance of
both parties to the boycott wrangle—at the boycotters
preferring to see Australia remain ill-defended and
dependent on doubtful assistance rather than that their
paltry personal “liberties” should be so much as
glanced at; and at the politicians beseeching them to
be good boys and to take their word for it that
acceptance of the Registration Act would not mean
submission to national training and service.
Historical Sketch.
A most underrated most underrated of
English Kings—was Henry the Seventh- Though he
was unpopular in his lifetime and has been despised
since, his policies and achievements have affected the
course of British history for over four centuries. They
can be studied with profit even in these times and in
these countries, cursed as these countries are with inter-
ventionists and threatened with an “ally” which is a
trumpeter of sedition everywhere, promotion of civil
war being part of its religion.
When the first Tudor came to the throne, Eng-
land had wasted its substance in mad foreign and
civil wars. Had they gone on it might have fallen
to another conqueror from the Continent for sheer
lack, of manpower. As it was, the loss of life in the
French wars and the Wars of the Roses was so ter-
rific that even at the end of the eighteenth century the
population was small compared with that of France,
whose own civil and imperialist wars were then
redressing the balance.
On the field of Stoke Henry “quenched the lasi
fires of civil war.” And though he “used an outburst
of national feeling to raise money for war in France
to prevent the annexation of the Duchy of Brittany,'
he “allowed himself to be bought off.” “This policy,”
Golawin Smith wrote, “was not heroic, but it was
better than a renewal of the feud with France and
another diversion of the national force to the wild
pursuit of barren and short-lived glories on an alien
field.”
To prevent the consolidation of France was hope-
less. The counterpoise and antidote was the consolida-
tion of the island realm. With Scotland Henry
strove to make a lasting peace. His policy was diplo-
matic and pacific. Diplomacy prevailed, and the peace
was sealed by the marriage of Henry’s daughter with
the King of Scots, which paved the way for a union of
the crowns, and at last for the union of the nations.
Henry’s foreign policy was followed by his son,
wild as the son became —the Australian Dr. Maclaunn
was the first to suggest that his crimes were conse-
quences of tertiary syphilis —and by his granddaughter.
“No war, my Lords!” was Elizabeth’s repeated coun-
sel to her counsellors; and although foreign war
came in her time, and civil war under the feckless
Stuarts, it was not until the eighteenth century that
English blood was again shed like water on foreign
fields in foreign causes.
The eighteenth century brought John Churchill,
with his Grand Alliance—a counterpart of which,
name and all, another Churchill has demanded in our
own day, chiefly to prevent the consolidation of Ger-
many—his useless victories and his princely estate,
bought with the lives of a multitude of English lads
who were soon forgotten, “except”—as John Bright
said after another useless European war —“by their
mothers.” To that Churchill’s cold heart were per-
haps addressed the lines of the Countess of Winchelsea
on the soldier slain in battle:
For see! where on the bier before ye lies
The pale, the fallen, th’ untimely sacrifice
To your mistaken shrine, to your false idol Honor.
Not only did Henry abandon war as an instru-
ment of national policy. By various measures he
broke the power of the feudal lords, notably their
power to levy private armies; and, though a loyal
son of the Church, who found the money for the
building of one of the most beautiful chapels in the
world, he deprived it of its exemption from certain
secular laws. At the same time he strengthened the
privileges of the cities and the towns, so that they
became little commonwealths of freemen, and he en-
couraged the growth of a sturdy yeomanry of free-
holders and tenant farmers, whose tenure was made
“equally secure and heritable with freehold.” Such
was the father of whom Latimer wrote with such
pride: “He had a farm of three or four pound by
year, and hereupon he tilled so much as kept half a
dozen men. He had walk for a hundred sheep, and
my mother milked thirty kine. He was able and did
find the King a harness with himself and his horse
I buckled his harness when he went unto Blackheath
field. He kept me to school; he married my sisters
with five pound apiece, so that he brought them up
in godliness; he kept hospitality for his poor neigh-
bors, and some alms he gave to the poor ; and all this
he did of the said farm.”
Sheep-farming was then the foundation of the
national fortune, as it was to become in Australia.
Henry promoted it by, among other things, arranging
a commercial union with Flanders, then the great
market for English wool and unfinished cloth. A
protectionist in his way, he imported weavers “to teach
the backward West,” supported “manufactures of the
finer kind, glass, carpets, lace,” and, so that English
goods might be carried in English bottoms, he framed
the Navigation Act, the forerunner of our own. For
the infant navy, he built the first dockyard at Ports-
mouth. And he issued to the Cabots the letters patent
that set England on the path to imperial greatness,
and helped to finance the voyage that in the fullness of
time brought it Newfoundland, and gave it in the
meantime the cod-fisheries, “a goldmine richer than
those of Eldorado.”
To a great Englishman, Bacon, Henry was a
model of kingcraft, whose laws were “deep and not
vulgar; not made upon the spur of a particular occa-
sion for the present, but out of providence for the
future, to make the estate of his people still more and
more happy, after the manner of the legislators in
ancient and heroical times.” His people repaid him
with ingratitude, as peoples will; and, according
to Gojdwin Smith, “it was under the cloud of national
hatred that, after a life of indefatigable industry in
the public service, with careworn brow and melancholy
step he descended to the tomb.” The still-current im-
pression of this crowned Chamberlain who died 430
years ago is that he was a wretched miser who
added to his hoard by extortion, employing for this
purpose two stony-hearted attorneys, Empson and
Dudley, whom his son sent to the block.
TUART.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
For One Week Only.
For three days last week, the most expensive show in
Australia, which has —or thinks it has —a permanent
stand in Macquarie-street, Sydney, drew crowded
houses. As a rule it plays to almost empty benches
—especially on Wednesday afternoons, when the races
are on—-but on the three days mentioned every seat
was occupied, and there were queues from the shut
gallery doors to the pavement.
The attraction was a new piece, “Was the Budget
Faked?” That veteran of melodrama John Roscius
Lang, who had been driven to accept a minor role for
seven long years, cast himself for the part of the hero,
brushing aside the claims of a self-appointed under-
study, Bobby Heffron. “To fake the Budget and
manipulate the public accounts is a crime against the
people,” John Roscius roared. That was ' one for
Beerbohm Stevens’s nob. “On the other hand,” the
old actor-r proceeded, “to capitalise one’s position as
Assistant Treasurer and falsely allege that faking was
taking place when, in fact, it was not is equally repre-
hensible.” The second barrel was for George Rignold
Spooner. Then a thunderous climax: “They can’t both
be right. The one who is wrong must leave public
life.”
Each of the performers thus denounced denied
that he was the villain. George Rignold Spooner
pleaded that he had been “disturbed about the
finances” and had discussed with Beerbohm Stevens
‘ my conversation with” Master Betty Robson, but “on
three occasions since” Beerbohm Stevens “asked me to
abandon my intention to resign.” And although he
had “racked” his “mind” for a week, he couldn’t
remember having told Master Betty Robson that the
Budget was “faked.”
Beerbohm Stevens, declaiming for “an hour and
a half,” denied that the Budget was faked. Master
Betty Robson, he admitted, had told him that George
Rignold Spooner said it was faked, but George Rignold
Spooner, informed of this, declared that he had re-
moved the wrong impression from the Robson mind.
He (Beerbohm Stevens) was now convinced that
George Rignold Spooner had used the word and
“knew perfectly well that he was making an unjusti-
fiable attack on the Government to which he be-
longed.” Why, then, did Beerbohm Stevens continue
to employ George Rignold Spooner as a member of
the company, until the juvenile’s denunciation obliged
G. R. Spooner to resign, and why did Beerbohm
“express regret at his going”? Because ‘I wanted him
to play his part at a time of difficulty, just as he did
at the periods of ascending price-levels and easy
spending.”
In between the principal characters, minor per-
formers spoke their lines. “Those words were used,”
said Master Betty Robson, with something of the
gravity of Charles the First laying his head on the
block. “There is a dictatorship in New South Wales,”
quoth the Kogarah rebel, Ross. And Solomon the
Younger, echoing George Rignold Spooner, pleaded
that the whole thing was a matter for the party and
not for the State. The scene closed with Ross, Lee,
Chaffey and Shand—two former members of the
Stevens troupe —supporting John Roscius Lang and
George Rignold Spooner supporting Beerbohm Stevens.
There was one noteworthy omission from the per-
formance. Nobody mentioned that in the state of
mind produced by the unfounded expectation of a
surplus of £7785 the whole crowd had, a trifle over
three weeks after the Budget was presented, awarded
themselves a rise of £4 a week. Nor was the frequent
reference to the deficit of £2,Boo,ooo—and the rest-
followed by an undertaking in any quarter to return
any part of the money.
Check to the "New Order."
“F.S.”j Japan’s difficulties accumulate. Just when its
relations with Britain seemed to be improving—its
relations with the U.S.S.R. are so bad that they could
scarcely be worse —the Americans gave it six months’
notice of their intention to end their 28-year-old Treaty
of Commerce and Navigation with it. This means,
at the very least, that the building of a “new order”
in Asia has suffered another powerful check.
Up to date what the Japanese have sought to do
in China is what the European has already done in
Asia. The European took something from Asia which
the Asiatic didn’t want to give him, namely, his inde-
pendence, and consequently the Asiatic had to hate
the European. Some Asiatics react for and some
against their foreign masters ; but few love them.
The Asiatics who react against the Europeans have
to be brought to order, so the Europeans tend to
become repressive. The more repressive they become
the more the Asiatics react against them.
The Japanese are in the same situation relative
to the Chinese. China being a large country and the
Chinese a virile race, the results of this reaction may
be the development of China, as in the case of other
Asiatic countries.
But if the Japanese subjugate China it will be
necessary for them then to become more repressive in
China, and if they have to be repressive there they
will have to be repressive in their homeland. They
will thus be ruled for generations by more and more
conservative Governments, and the Japanese will be
predisposed to regard intellectual freedom as a
menace, because it might involve the loss of China.
They will thus tend to change from a progressive to
an unprogressive people.
But the Chinese will be predisposed to favor free-
dom, because freedom with them will be synonymous
with, the end of the hated Japanese domination. Hence
intellectual activity will be regarded, not as a menace
but as their savior. Every Chinese clerk will feel him-
self the intellectual superior of every conservative
Japanese official; and the official will feel the clerk’s
contempt and will hate him.
If such is to be the new order in Asia I am
heartily opposed to it for Japan’s sake.
Government by Officials.
Justice Maxwell has reported on the circumstances
in which the contract for additions to Sydney G.P.O.
was signed in the face of a specific Cabinet instruc-
tion that it should not be signed, and to Mr. Menzies
it is “gratifying that the Judge has found it possible
to speak highly of those concerned in the public
administration.” Others will not share the P.M.’s
gratification.
Mr. Thorby, while Minister for Works, decided
that the building to be erected should be faced with
sandstone. Mr. Thorby left office, and Senator Foil,
who succeeded him, changed the decision in favor of
terra-cotta facing, with the concurrence of Mr. Harri-
son, the new P.M.G. This change, which involved
giving the contract to another party, was a result of the
intervention of Mr. Brown, permanent head of the
Post Office.
The Judge credits Mr. Brown with the “very
strong and quite honest opinion that terra-cotta was
not merely suitable, but also desirable.” Mr. Win-
deyer, who assisted the commissioner, described Mr.
Brown’s interference as “officious,” and a lot of people
will agree with him. The Judge, while thinking Mr.
Brown’s action capable of being so regarded, was
“not prepared to adopt counsel’s comment,” though
he mentions that Mr. Brown’s “language to the Post-
master-General,” Mr. Harrison, was “emphatic.”
For the rest, it is recorded that the Chief Gov-
ernment Architect, who was found hanged after the
inquiry opened, had had an extraordinary amount of
work on his shoulders. Mr. Menzies himself assured
Parliament that Cabinet had given the order that the
contract should not be signed. In his method of con-
veying the order to Mr. Orwin, the Works Director
in Sydney, Mr. Mehaffey, the Director-General of
Works, was held by Mr. Maxwell “to have failed in
his duty,” although the Judge was “satisfied that he
believed he had taken such steps as would ensure com-
pliance with his instructions.” Anyway, the instruc-
tions did not reach Mr. Orwin, who was to sign on
behalf of the Government, till his name was on the
dotted line. An interview which Mr. Orwin had had
with a representative of Wunderlichs, the terra-cotta
firm, on the day tenders closed was found to be im-
proper, and for his part in it “Mr. Orwin cannot escape
serious criticism.” Nevertheless, “one fact emerges
from this inquiry”:
No one has suggested that there is even a suspicion
of bribery or of any sort of monetary consideration
involved in the actions of any person, Ministerial or
departmental.
Another fact that emerges is that this country is run
by officials whose methods are peculiar to officialdom.
And the more Ministers there are the more subservient
they seem to be to officials.
The Wisdom of the Maori.
There are Maoris to-day living in poverty and
squalor. The infant mortality rate is far too high and
tuberculosis is distressingly common. Natives with
money are preyed on by unscrupulous whites, and
there are Maoris with long memories who still bitterly
resent the loss of ancestral lands. Nevertheless, the
race is increasing, and the way Maoriland has treated
its minority is an example to colonial Powers.
Because there are colleges as good as Te Aute,
and because the Maori has all the privileges of citi-
zenship, Apirana Ngata was able to tell the House of
Representatives that his race was fortunate to have
been conquered by “the least unsympathetic represen-
tatives of Western civilisation.” As one of the con-
quered, he had every justification for reminding the
pakeha members that they were able to sit there and
ponder “aggression” because their forefathers, not
many years ago, conquered his and took their land.
Said this distinguished Maori:
The whole .trouble with the British Empire to-day
is that it has forgotten that it was founded on blood,
iron and rapine. An Empire which expanded by tread-
ing down primitive peoples is now saying to its rivals,
“You must accept the principles of Christianity.”
Of course, there was “uproar.” One of Labor s
parsonical members had been bleating that Britain was
going “from humiliation to humiliation,” and another
reverend gentleman had a sermon for the Japanese.
Only a few days previously the party had had to
defend its Mr. Jordan, whose moral fervor, the
Nationalists declared, had embarrassed even Mr. Eden.
Apirana Ngata, whose people fought side by side
with the pakeha in the last war, and will do so again
if the need comes, is a realist: “The Empire should
remember that it has been built on the gospel of
Might and that it will survive only so long as it keeps
its armor bright.”
What sort of a dream-world is Maoriland Labor
living in, if there’s “uproar” when a man speaks the
plain and obvious truth?
"War-scare Talk."
Resolutions adopted at a recent meeting of the
Federal Council of the Chambers of Automotive
Industries and forwarded to “editors of leading publi-
cations throughout the Commonwealth”:
(1) We are wholly in support of an adequate pro-
gramme of national defence.
(2) We deprecate the continuance of war-scare talk in
certain quarters and its overemphasis, whether
by exaggerated headlines or by unwarranted interpre-
tations.
(3) We sense the possibility of improved conditions if
the public and business generally are given a period
in which constructive news is given greatest promi-
nence, and in which all statements, whether from
local or overseas sources, are carefully weighed with
a view to the prevention of any news appearing that
will unnecessarily reduce confidence.
The Bulletin prints the resolutions with pleasure,
and suggests that copies should be sent to the con-
trollers of broadcasting stations, beginning with A.B.C.
They also are publications, and some of the wildest
alarmists do their alarming through “national”
stations.
Wheat and Restriction.
A China-to-Peru survey:
Years ago an International Wheat Committee was formed
to set the wheat world right. Don Quixote’s job with the
windmills was a small one compared with this, but the
committee has the quixotic spirit and it is still plugging along.
It started out to deal with conditions which were brought
about chiefly by Governmental interference with trade through-
out the world. Quotas were arranged, and were observed or
ignored according to the taste and fancy of the particular
wheatgrowing country. Argentina, in particular, continued
to export more wheat than its quota allowed.
Australia was permitted to export 115,000,000 bushels in
1934. To reward it for agreeing to this and for cutting down
the area under crop, it is asked to-accept another reduction
of 25,000,000 bushels. Meanwhile the price of wheat has
fallen to record low levels. In Sydney a few days ago it was
2s. OJld. a bushel, which means about Is. 3d. to the grower
at siding—in Westralia and parts of S.A. it is round Is. 7d.
Wheat held in Australia on farmers’ account is about 20,000,000
bushels. Private holders are reckoned to have another
10,000,000 bushels.
The caqses which have brought about the price-collapse—
Government interference with markets, fear of war, fear of
further Government interference —are such that nobody can
control them. The stunning fall in the sterling value of the
Chinese dollar has had Australian repercussions, since it further
restricts the Chinese power to buy, already restricted by the
Japanese blockade. Japan, too, is struggling with serious
difficulties.
Mr. Dunstan, the Premier of Victoria, has no use for a
quota of 90,000,000 bushels. He complains that the public
doesn’t even know the personnel of the committee. Mr.
Menzies says a confidential report was circulated to Premiers
last Marqh. Mr. Dunstan says he knows nothing of a con-
fidential document, but, “so far as I can ascertain,” the
proposal will call for State licensing of wheat-farmers, limi-
tation of wheat areas, a five-years’ agreement, to be signed
by exporting countries, not to sell quota wheat under 4s. a
bushel, f.0.b., or to fix a home-consumption price more than
10 per cent, above the export price; also, an arrangement that
export stocks should be held by exporting countries —in the
period proposed, that might leave Australia with 50,000,000
to 120,000,000 bushels on its hands. And “all wheat in excess
of requirements to be denatured or rendered unfit for human
consumption.”
While not denying Mr. Dunstan’s outline of the facts,
Mr. Menzies maintains that to guarantee a price without
restriction of production would be to encourage increase in
production. “Whether- or not an international wheat agree-
ment is obtained,” he adds, “Australia cannot continue on
the airy assumption that the world will buy all the wheat we
can grow.” Mr. Menzies has asked the Premiers to meet him
on August 10 and discuss the whole question.
Under the proposed agreement, there is compulsion on
exporting countries to fix a minimum f.o.b. price of 45., but
no compulsion on anybody to buy at that price. And,
according to Mr. Dunstan, no acreage restriction is suggested
for countries like Rumania, Russia and Bulgaria and there
is no way of compelling Argentina td fall in line, so we
seem likely to be the mugs, since two-thirds of our crop
needs to be exported.
The question which Australia needs to ask itself is the
same which a leading Canadian has recently propounded:
“Canada, before signing an agreement of this nature, must be
certain that the total returns to the nation from selling a
limited quantity of wheat, at not less than some agreed price,
will be greater than if both the volume of sales and price
were left to competition in the open market.... It is
doubtful whether by control of export prices and export
sales any substantial progress can be made towards the
solution of underlying problems.” Gross national income
is a factor of great importance. A price at which we could
sell our wheat, provided it returned even a small profit, would
suit Australia better than a price at which consuming countries
would buy little or nothing. If a five-years’ agreement is to
be entered into, it should be with countries specifically pre-
pared to buy Australian wheat.
At the same time, there are other avenues of wheat
marketing to be considered. There are big unsatisfied markets
for pig-meat and chilled beef overseas. And pig-meat and
beef, under properly organised conditions, are only other names'
for grain and straw on the hoof.
Do Governments Have to Entertain Us?
“Lord Luvus”: I can’t see any reason for it, except
the principle of panem et circenses evolved by the
Roman emperors in the decline of the empire.
What harm would have accrued if the Govern-
ment, when it took over the control of broadcasting,
had forbidden all stations but its own and confined
its activities to broadcasting only the best of music
and other matter? That is what it does when it
builds national galleries. It doesn’t hang comic strips
in them. It hangs only the best pictures or what its
officials think are the best. If people want comic
strips they have to get them elsewhere.
In other days Governments didn’t think that they
had to amuse the public in a wholesale fashion. Con-
sequently the public had to amuse itself, and it did
so very effectively. It might be said that wireless
is a boon to sick people ; and so, no doubt, it is. But the
nearest thing to a sick person is an individual who
sits in a room in a suburban villa twisting a knob
about while the Government, in competition with
private companies—out, not to amuse the public, but
to get advertisements —tries to entertain him.
The present situation would be a little worse only
if the State Governments had asserted their right to
entertain us. Then we would have had hundreds of
stations all competing with one another in polluting
the ether. Nobody would argue that it would be the
other way about, and that they would all be trying
to improve on one another. If that were so, A.B.C.
would be competing with the Commercial stations by
improving on them, not the other way about.
So long as the Government thinks it a sacred
duty to give the public what it thinks the public wants,
it will be compelled to go on chasing the commercial
stations downhill until it finds the 1 ">west common
denominator of public entertainment. When it finds
that it will have achieved the distinction of being the
prize bore of history.
Meanwhile, the lower the A.B.C. descends in its
endeavors to entertain the public the more magnificent
it becomes as a public institution. I was on the steps
of the Town Hall, Melbourne, when sortie visiting
celebrity turned up to give a concert. All the A.B.C.
hierarchy was present. The spectacle was well-nigh
blinding, and if a visitor from Mars had been present
and had been told that most of the time, energy and
brains of this official galaxy was devoted to dissemi-
nating through the ether what the A.B.C. does dissemi-
nate, he wouldn’t have believed you.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Lao-dah”: Melbourne “Argus,” which
set its face for years against the publi-
cation of photographs of topical events,
is now no whit behind its contemporaries
in presenting pictorial scoops. The other
day it was announced tjy cable that a
peasant boy of five living in a remote
village of a wild Chinese province had
duly been discovered to have the ten
marks of the reincarnated Buddha, and
was being transported to Lhasa to
assume the spiritual crown as 14th Dalai
Lama of Tibet. The next day the
“Argus” printed the new ruler’s photo-
graph, supplied to it by a missionary,
Inasmuch as the selection of a new Lama
is shrouded in deepest secrecy (he is re-
vealed only to a few members of the
priesthood), his election has to be en-
dorsed by the Chinese Government, and
has nowadays to be not unpleasing to the
British Indian Government, this is a scoop
indeed The scoop of a Perth evening
paper a few years ago was not so fortu-
nate. The Mundaring Weir had over-
flowed, and, as this was a periodical
occurrence, the rival morning paper was
asked to lend its block of a previous simi-
lar event.. It was duly published, and
the newspaper enjoyed much credit for
its enterprise until the morning, when its
obliging rival printed a brand-new photo-
graph Taken the day before. The even-
ing paper's print showed the flood framed
in luxuriant forest. The morning paper’s
picture showed a landscape completely
divested of foliage.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: “Lao-dah’s” historic mis-
print (B. 12/7/’39) reminds that when
Tennyson died most Australian papers
quoted “Crossing the Bar.” One Mel-
bourne paper came out with:
But such a tide as snoring seems to sleep.
# * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Some tactful repre-
sentations should be made by the Aus-
tralian press to explorer Hubert Wilkins
in the matter of standardising his face-
foliage. For years he kept to the square-
cut, collision-mat type of ziff, with beer-
strainer and cheek-hackles complete.
Then some divinity shaped its end to a
smart Vandyke point—anyhow, he mar-
ried a charming Australian lady soon
afterwards. Restricted stowage space
probably explained the clean-shaven dial
with which he astounded an admiring
world after his submarine trial at the
Arctic ice. It may be that the spinach
roots were irreparably damaged, or pos-
sibly his ziff-complex became loose on its
rockers, but since then that once-luxuriant
dial-thicket has never remained the same
“ E used t' be in a circus .”
for more than a few months at a time.
L as t press photographic advices indicate
.. . L u oc yi„,; n rll<»H in a mere smeared
mat it has dwindled to a mere smeared
Upper lip surmounting little more than a
c hj n tuft.
* * * *
a RS «. Melbourne Customs officers
impounded a book of art reproductions
called Les Contemporains the other day
on the ground that there were nudes in it
that were indecent. Asked why they
were regarded as indecent, an officer said
they were “too natural.” Les Contem-
porains has since been released, and turns
out to be nothing but a collection of
reproductions of the work of Matisse,
Modigliani and other modernists, some of
which are available in other publications,
Moreover, they are indistinguishable as
regards subject-matter from a collection
of students’ paintings which were lately
exhibited at Melbourne National Gallery
and excited no comment even from the
unco guid.
* * ..* _ . * ..
“Stalbot : Decided in S.A. Assembly
that the expression used by one member
about another, “You cannot expect any-
thing muckraking from a chocolate
soldier,” is not out of order. S.A. P ar '
liamentarians use very little of that sort
of talk, and the decision came as a sudden
test to Dunks, Deputy in the absence
through illness of Speaker Nicholls.
* * * *
“S.S.”: Re disappearing islands (B.
19/7/’39) and “inaccuracy of _ early
charts,” There is a fine globe in the
Public Library of Adelaide which years
ago was found to show an islapd, named,
in the deepest water of the Australian
Bight. The educational section of the
public protested against getting wrong in-
formation from an institution that pro-
fesses to instruct; but the Library Board
replied simply that it cannot possibly
guarantee the correctness of every detail
in its hundreds of thousands of books,
etc., so students must compare and de-
cide. While the argument still raged a
practical-minded objector used a thumb-
nail and removed the cause of offence, a
whitish patch remaining in the ocean to
this day where the paint was scratched
away. The Parliamentary Library of
Adelaide owns a globe that is twin to the
other; and this one still shows the island
that never was.
:jc
“Passenger”: A clashing supposed to
be impossible under modern regulations
has occurred at Port Adelaide, where two
ships named Westralia were berthed at
the same time. One is the familiar Hud-
dart Parker passenger vessel; the other,
bringing timber across the Pacific, is a
Danish motor ship, which can hardly be
prevented by our Board of Trade from
using the same name. Apropos, ‘'West-
ralia” was coined by The Bulletin. Un-
like “Maoriland,” it has had wide accept-
ance.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: A method of going into
the sulks in order to gain a concession
which has not been thought of by Holly-
wood was recently adopted by Shanta
Apte, the most popular star in Hindustan.
She went into a fast a la Gandhi, though
with not the same high goal in view, in-
asmuch as all she wanted from her em-
ployers was a paid vacation. Hosts of
sympathisers gathered round her coun-
try mansion appalled at the thought that
their darling might ruin her physical
appearance, but her medical adviser
warned her off before serious damage
was done. An Occidental version of her
gesture of self-pity was indulged in not
so long ago in Melbourne by an im-
ported actress. Disliking the play in
which she had been billed to appear,
or for some other reason, she played her
role so lifelessly that the rest of the cast,
local players, could not catch their cues,
and the performances were well-nigh dis-
located. On one evening she cheered up
momentarily, and the cast was delighted
at the prospect of seeing what the play
was really like for the first time ; but she
collapsed again. The annulling of her
contract terminated the exhibition.
“Mac Hoots”: Allegations of “telling
the newspapers” were made twice in the
barney which resulted in the names of
Lina Basquette and husband Henry Mol-
lison disappearing from the lights of Syd-
ney Minerva. According to the lady,
one of the prime causes of the fuss was
a charge against her by the theatre
mapager that she had told reporters about
Mollison having sprained an ankle. The
“Daily News” says she declared she “did
no such thing.” The same paper, quot-
ing the manager on his former leading
lady, has: “She said, ‘lt’s a terrible thing.
Joy Howarth cut her leg and it was ail
over the front pages of the newspapers.
Poop Henry nearly broke his foot and
there wasn’t a word about it.’ ” I
suppose these minor ailments and
squabblings have “human interest,” but
the glamor of stubbed toes won’t keep
the stage alive.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Salaried Australian
citizens in the income-tax-attracting
grades are beginning to wonder how 53
weekly paydays have got into two con-
secutive fiscal years. It is not that they
mind an extra one themselves, but the
nasty view taken by the income-tax
authorities concerning alleged conceal-
ment of income, and a repeated offence
at that, takes all the pleasure out of the
extra envelope. Astronomers, or whoever
it is that fixes up our idiotic calendar,
state that this kind of phenomenon occurs
whenever June 30 falls on either a Thurs-
day or a Friday, and that it will be quite
a while before it happens again.
* * * *
“Sea Pilot”: Regarding “Captain
Pintle’s” windjammers’ race up Port
Phillip in June, 1904 (B. 19/7/’39), the
four M.L. barques arrived off Port Phillip
in a s.-e. gale, and hove-to awaiting the
flood tide—not “anchoring inside until
daylight.” In sight of the P. and O.
liner Australia, wrecked on the Point
Nepean shore only a few hours before,
the vessels sailed through the Heads,
boomed up the bay and passed the Gelli-
brand Pile Light in the following order:
Kathleen Hilda 1, Jessie Craig 2, Hirotha
3, Emerald 4. “Captain Pintle’s” placing
is wrong. I was chief mate of Kathleen
Hilda on that thrilling occasion.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: My old friend Capt.
Shankpainter admitted to me that his last
gruelling round Wilson’s Promontory
against a gale had filled him with a deep
yearning for a shore life. “Pintle,” he
said, “I’d like to get a nice little farm
right in the centre of Australia at least
a thousand blanky miles from any blasted
seacoast.” Our job doesn’t include inland
geography if we can help it, but after
borrowing an atlas from his schoolboy
son he had to admit that his dream must
remain unfulfilled. The fact is that he
can’t get more than about 560 miles
from the coast anywhere in Australia,
even if he were to settle at Mt. Destruc-
tion in the Carnarvon Ranges, which his
wife certainly wouldn’t permit. Birds-
ville in s.-w. Queensland is reckoned
pretty far back, but it is only a mere 450
miles from Port Augusta.
t- * * . S
“Fiona”: Re the names chosen by
royalty (B. 26/7/’39), in England at least
kings and queens seem to have a mind
of their own on the subject. History re-
lates that Victoria coldly received a sug-
gestion that she should ascend the throne
with an English name, such as Mary or
Anne, and wisely stuck to her unusual
cognomen. But she in her turn wanted
her son to become Albert 1., a suggestion
he turned down in favor of his second
moniker, Edward. As for Princess Eliza-
beth, it is not likely she will become Vic-
toria, Britannia or Anne, as her name
happens to be Elizabeth Alexandra Mary.
* * * *
“Ming”: It’s just a quarter of a cen-
tury since Maoriland saw its first official
’plane, a Bristol, which was presented to
the Dominion in a spasm of gratitude
for something or other by the British
authorities. All Auckland turned out on
a fine Sunday morning to see the ’plan*=
gliding over the city, hospitals pushed
patients to windows, and in churches wor-
shippers tiptoed out unrebuked. A well-
known citizen swooned, and horses and
cows careered madly round their pad-
docks when the unknown terror sailed
overhead. Then the ’plane went on a
round of exhibition flights, and the next
news was the dire report that the De-
fence people had seized it and locked it
up because some tactless person had been
joyriding chorus-girls in it. We saw it
no more, but when war broke out shortly
after we heard that Britain had borrowed
it back. Its history after that is lost in
the battle-clouds.
* * !H *
“C.R.”: Reported by the “Argus”
that a woman sat on the platform dur-
ing a Marjorie Lawrence concert and
calmly knitted a jumper under the nose
of the distinguished singer for the major
part of the programme. The ordinary
music-lover would be inclined to regard
her behavior as a reflection on her sense
of values. Some women would be ready
enough to take their knitting to a con-
cert, but would they knit at a Govern-
ment House reception if they were in-
vjted to one or even in Mrs. Herbert
Brookes’s drawing-room? If they
wouldn’t knit there but would knit in
the presence of a distinguished singer I
would say that they regarded sassiety as
more important than music. The prac-
tice is growing in Melbourne, and
nothing is more likely than that in a
year or so there will be rows of the gals
letting their needles fly and murmuring
“purl,” “plain” at symphony concerts.
WHEN UNANIMITY IS ASSURED.
“Voting themselves increases in salaries seems to
be the only question on which members of all our
Parliamentary parties agree.”
—Letter to “S. M. Herald.”
They’ll differ bitterly on many and many
Points, you may confidently guarantee,
Scrap like the famous felines of Kilkenny,
Bicker like Tweedledum and Tweedledee,
Till one might fairly wonder if there’s any
Motion regarding which they’d all agree.
But if you keep a watch on them, my son,
You’ll mighty soon discover that there’s one.
Enactments which the Ins regard as needed
Are safe to prove anathema to Outs,
Provoking cold hostility, succeeded
By angry comments and derisive doubts,
With every reading but the first impeded
By personalities and jeers and flouts,
And certain to be fought, you may depend,
Down to the final ditch, the bitter end.
They clash as Greeks and Trojans once con-
tended,
Carthage and Rome, or Ghibelline and
Guelph,
Save when the measure that is recommended
Awards to one and all some extra pelf,
Then —only then —the jarring strife is ended
And faction relegated to the shelf,
And where opposing tribunes brawled and
warred
For once is harmony and sweet accord.
The lion and the lamb in full compliance
Co-operate. A common purpose curbs
Loud Labor tongues from bellowing defiance
At Capital, and Rus from slating Urbs.
In short, one notes a firm-and-fast alliance
Reached in an atmosphere that none disturbs
Between our Capulets and
Whenever comes a chance of
NSW
PIPARDS.


“Pawang”: According to the cable-
man, a wealthy cement manufacturer of
New York, having been given a month to
live, threw a party, at which he was the
jolliest member. Grinning philosophically,
he said: “The doctors give me a month to
live and then off I go to Flatbush ceme-
tery. Well, thousands die every minute.
When you gotta go, you gotta.” I would
not be in the least surprised to hear ten
years hence that the cement manufacturer
is still alive. I know a Melbourne man
who was told seven years ago that he
had diabetes and had only six months
to live. He decided to hava*a good time,
balanced his insulin with beer, .and is
still going strong. Another Melbourne
man was given a similar death sentence
of even shorter duration, and he filled
in the time with parties at his suburban
home. The parties were extremely wild,
a clergyman got to hear of it and
decided to call and exhort the poor fel-
low to attend to his spiritual state. He
turned up in the middle of a party and
found the condemned man in his bed-
room having oxygen pumped into him.
“Can I be of any assistance?” said the
parson, bending down and placing his
ear to the patient’s lips in order to catch
the reply. “Yes,” gasped the patient.
“Man the pumps.”
* * * *
“K.P.”: Recent investigations into ap-
pendicitis in England have produced some
curious and interesting results. The
deathrate has not altered appreciably
during the last 20 years. Fewer married
than single women die from it. Amongst
males between 20 and 65 the mortality
rate for upper and middle-class patients
is 15.1 p.c., intermediate classes 12.7 p.c.,
skilled workers 7.9 p.c., unskilled workers
6.2 p.c. Diet, particularly the absence
of green vegetable celluloses, appears to
be an important factor in eausation. but
it is not practically possible to obtain
sufficient alteration to influence the inci-
dence of the disease to any definite ex-
tent. Earlier entry to hospital for treat-
ment and avoidance of purgatives and
laxatives in cases which, suggest appen-
dicitis appear to afford the only hopeful
method of further reducing the mortality
rate.
* * * *
“P.D.R.”: Port Darwin is not what it
was. I read the other day that the new
"It's a.s much as me job's Worth to tell the skipper about this."
military reinforcements are apparently
such a teetotal lot that hogsheads of
liquor had to be poured away, having
been permitted to go sour. On one occa-
sion, when the N.T. port was not a link
in the scheme of Empire defence, two
Australian warships happened in in the
same month, each staying a week. The
consequent drain on the town’s drinking
supply was so great that the season was
dry in more senses than one, with still a
fortnight to go before the steamer from
south was due to arrive with relief. There
was not even a drop of samshu left in
Chinatown. The pubs still’ remained
open from force of habit, and one of
the saddest sights ever presented in the
town was at sundown, the hour when
tropical etiquette dictates that drinking
should begin. There were rows of
habitues in all the bars, each with a foot
on the brass rail, an elbow on the
counter, contemplating the empty shelves
with mournful eyes.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: That “foreign” flavor (B.
19/7/’39) in milk that was supposed to
be Italian suggests the similar word
“abroad,” which also has quite changed
from its old meaning of out of your
home. The poet who said “Whene’er I
take my walks abroad” certainly did not
intend to suggest travels in distant lands.
And I still recall the delight with which
as children we quoted from an old-time
book of etiquette that had somehow
lingered on into our day, “If you must
spit, go abroad to do it.”
* * * *
“Craiser”: A young solicitor of a con-
vivial turn arrived from Melbourne to
start a practice. The town had just
wakened up sufficiently to celebrate its
centenary and gone to sleep again. The
only congenial companion the young
solicitor could find was the magis-
trate, who was a member of the
club, the dullest for 100 miles
around. Eminent citizens stiff
with historical antecedents re-
paired there every evening to sit
over the fire and read their daily
paper. The sole place the magis-
trate and the solicitor could meet
at comfortably was the club, but
their cheerfulness and conviviality
struck a jarring note, and the other
members united instinctively to freeze
them out. The boon companions
stood it for a week or so ; then one night
they were seen to put their heads to-
gether. After a whispered colloquy, they
went out, and a few minutes afterwards
the club fires began to smoke. The con-
spirators had climbed on the roof, put
bags over the chimneys and gone home
to bed, first taking the precaution to lock
the doors.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: A youthful recruit to the
British diplomatic corps in China arrived
in Hong Kong. The first function he at-
tended was a banquet to a high British
official departing on furlough. He found
himself alongside a young Chinese of
about the same age, nicely garbed in cor-
rect European evening dress, and with the
Oriental gift of remaining silent. Having
had it ingrained into him by his seniors
that an important part of his duties was
fostering amicable relations with the
native population, he leant over after
, „ .
the first course and remarked to his
taciturn companion: “You likee
soupee?” The young Celestial nodded
gravely but made no comment. In
due course the speechmaking started,
and, after foreign .personages had ex-
pressed sentiments appropriate to the
occasion, the young diplomat’s neighbor
got on his feet and in accents trimmed
at Oxford launched into an oration re-
plete with quotations from Plato, the
Bible, Shakspeare and the works of the
Chinese sages. Sitting down amidst pro-
longed applause, he leant over and whis-
pered to the potential Empire-builder:
“You likee speechee?”
* * * *
“El V.”: The performance of Mr.
Fairbairn, Civil Aviation Minister, in
flying 5300 miles in four days’ actual
travelling must set a new record in Min-
isterial touring. The Minister started
from Melbourne, joined the Empire fly-
ing-boat at Sydney, hurtled up to
Darwin, picked up a Guinea Airways
Lockheed which took him to Dilli in
Timor and back in the same day—the
first double journey to a foreign country
from Australia and back. While in Dilli
he found time to give the Portuguese
Governor-General a flight. Next even-
ing he was in Adelaide. And, inciden-
tally, this is the twentieth anniversary
year of the use of aeroplanes by Minis-
ters. E. G. Theodore was the pioneer.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Mention of the Australian
eucalypts planted by Mussolini in Libya
(B. 19/8/*39) reminds me of the use the
natives of a high, freezingly-cold plateau
in Java have put the gums planted up the
slopes of the mountains by the Dutch
Government. Climbing up the ten-mile
track to the plateau I noticed the slender
trees lining the path. They all had tiny
tufts of leaves at the top, the lower
branches having been methodically
stripped off. Later, poking my nose into
some native houses I saw a strange sight.
There were three or four families in each
single-roomed dwelling dimly seen mov-
ing about like ghosts or squatting, cough-
ing, sneezing and weeping on the floor.
In the centre.of the room was a heap of
smoking gum leaves freshly plucked. The
amount of heat given forth from the
smouldering mass was negligible, but the
smoke and the medicinal smell of euca-
lyptus oil were something to marvel at.
The houses had no chimneys, and viewed
from without they were like heaps of
refuse themselves, steaming from every
crack in the kajang walls and atap roofs.
When I got a cold as a boy my head,
swathed in a towel, used to be thrust over
a jug of boiling water into which a couple
of drops of eucalyptus oil had been put.
Five seconds was enough.
* * * *
“J.V.R.”: There would seem to be
nothing quite so modern as the gas-mask,
but it dates back at least 150 years. Jean
Franqois de Rozier, by profession a bal-
loonist, demonstrated to the French
Academy of Science a “respirator or
apparatus, thanks to which one can de-
scend into foul air.” A tube of oiled silk
fortified by a spiral of brass wire led from
the nose to various protective reservoirs.
Glass eyepieces were provided. Wearers
of M. de Rozier’s mask were compelled
to breathe in through the nose and out
through the mouth.
“Wouldn't it be a better idea , dad, if we Was to chop it down first?"
ANOTHER CENTENARY.
“A celebration is being arranged'to commemorate
the achievement of Count Paul Strzelecki, who
climbed to the summit of the highest peak in Aus-
tralia and named it Mount Kosciusko on February
15, 1840.”
A hundred years away have slid —-
To miss the date would shame us—
Since gallant Paul Strzelecki did
The deed that made him famous.
A puzzling name—l have no rhyme
To which I could compel it;
In fact, it takes me all my time,
I frankly own, to spell it.
But fill a bumper to the Count
Who toiled from dawn till dusk-o!
To get atop our highest mount,
To conquer Kosciusko!
’Twas back when good Queen Vic was wed,
All England to exalt her,
The very week in which she led
Her Albert to the altar,
That Polish Paul, erect and high,
Upon a plateau icy,
Repeated Julius Caesar’s cry
Of “Veni, vicli, vici!”
The first of men to plant a hoof
And thus pre-empt a possie
On our Australia’s rugged roof
We’ve shortened into “Kossie.”
When he whose name adorns the mount
Took, in a manner o’ speaking,
His mortal knock, his earthly count,
It started Freedom shrieking;
But one might fancy, seeing Paul
His arduous climb completing,
That Knowledge whooped a cheerful call
And Science smiled a greeting.
Though lots of greater names are hailed
For dizzier heights by far assailed
From Everest to Cuzco,
We’ll not forget the Pole who scaled
And christened Kosciusko.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


CRAVENA
are kinder • .
to the throat
MADE SPECIALLY JO PREVENT SORE THROATS
iti
.
■m.
fs
2 ,
10 for 9° 50 for 3'9
20 for I'6 100 for 7'6
m
m
mm
m
2819
POLITICAL POINTS
Another week and no war! With a
calmness that infuriated the British
legion of alarmists, Chamberlain even
announced that Parliament is to have its
customary midsummer holidays. If this
sort of thing goes on, a lot of radio com-
mentators and international journalists
will find their occupations gone.
The A.C.T.U. has called the national-
register “boycott” off. Melbourne Trades
Hall Council voted for continuance, but
it was in a minority of one. Communists
are furious with the Sydney Labor
Council. On the other hand, the sorely
embarrassed Heffron Labor group is still
heaving huge sighs of relief.
The Budget-faking charge gave Lang
his long-awaited chance of getting home
on Stevens, and he made the most of it.
His censure motion was supported, not
only by Heffron Labor —very reluctantly,
for he had jumped Heffron's claim—but
“Despite his preoccupation with world affairs, Mr. Chamberlain has found time to assist a committee engaged in
observing birds in royal parks.”
“Here am I all ready and there's the old boy studying birds!”
by ex-Ministers Chaffey and Shand, and
by Ross and Lee, of the U.A.P. Spooner,
after a lame speech, voted with Stevens
and the majority. In short, Spooner
squibbed it.
In the winter of 1919 the Fremantle
Lumpers’ Union took forcible possession
of the local wharves, expelling not only
a so-called “national” organisation of
wharfies but a band of police headed by
the Commissioner and a party of volun-
teers (mostly Perth bagmen) led by the
Premier, Colebatch. In the melee a
lumper was knocked on the head, and on
the afternoon of the funeral there was
a Government train stoppage, that being
part of the peace terms. Last week,
while Curtin was trying to prevent the
national register “boycott,” the same
union (ordinarily quite sane) had another
rush of insurgence to the head and burnt
register cards. Poor Curtin! He is
member for Fremantle, and without the
support of the union and its womenfolk
he couldn’t get in.
“I think Mr. Spooner is finished,” said
Mr. Lee (U.A.P., Drummoyne), after Mr.
Spooner (U.A.P., Ryde) had resigned as
Minister, consequent upon his having
been taunted by Mr. Robson (U.A.P.,
Vaucluse) with saying that Mr. Stevens
(U.A.P., Croydon) had faked the Budget.
Anyway, Mr. Lee (U.A.P., Drummoyne)
was so reported. Next day Mr. Lee
(U.A.P., Drummoyne) was praising Mr.
Spooner (U.A.P., Ryde) to the skies;
“they spragged him because he was too
generous to the unemployed,” quoth Mr.
Lee. Mr. Lee’s first thought was right. Mr.
Spooner is finished, and so is Mr. Stevens.
Tasmanians were staggered when their
Labor Government asked Parliament to
vote £250 a year to the widow of Pre-
mier Ogilvie. A barrister for 25 years,
and for part of the time head of the firm
of which the Acting Chief Justice was a
member, Ogilvie was supposed to be a
wealthy man. Particulars of his estate
were disclosed to the Nationalists. Led
by Baker, they opposed the measure on
the ground that there would be sufficient
for the widow’s requirements ; but the
thing went through.
Sydney politicians and papers have said
very little about the fettlers’ strike which
stopped the running of trains to and
from Broken Hill. One result they
haven’t mentioned is that Adelaide re-
covered the trade which it lost when the
N.S.W. system was extended to the Bar-
rier ; and Adelaide seems likely to hold
at least portion of it.
Refugee immigration was sanctioned in
December and was supposed to begin in
January. Statements as to the number
admitted vary every time a Minister
opens his mouth or a sympathetic
chronicler puts pen to paper. Minister
Foil’s latest is that “the number of appli-
cations approved to date is practically in
accordance with the allotted quota of
15,000 in three years.” This is unbeauti-
fully vague; but then neither Foil nor
anyone else can be precise. Registration
of aliens, though promised last December,
may not be in force till next December.
Justice Starke, dissenting from the
High Court judgment which, in effect,
prohibits the sale of Victorian cream in
Sydney without the Sydney Milk Board’s
consent:
Judicial decisions are rapidly destroying
the effectiveness of the guarantee, contained
in Section 92, that trade and commerce
among the States shall be absolutely free.
Transport may be licensed; prices may be
controlled; trade in goods among the States
may be regulated.... and now the States
may compulsorily acquire commodities and
thus prevent or binder all trade in such
commodities among the States,
The framers of the Constitution never
dreamed that any of these things would
happen. In Britain, Maoriland and South
Africa, trade, commerce and intercourse
are free. In each country there is one
Parliament with supreme and unchal-
lengeable powers.
By the end of the year, the population
of Australia should have reached
7,000,000. The estimate at the end of
March was 6,946,400, the increase for the
quarter being 16,748 ; and a greater
number of new arrivals may be expected
in the ensuing nine months. If immigra-
tion were rightly ordered, the British
Government co-operating with the Com-
monwealth Government, new arrivals
would be almost wholly Britons. As it is,
they are almost wholly foreigners.
The Stre.tton report on the Victorian
bushfires led last week to a no-confidence
motion, tabled by Grandpa Argyle. Dun-
stan laughed at it (though the report itself
gave him nothing to laugh at), and the
numbers were on his side: 40 to 15.
Kirton, the member for tyTornington,
voted against his leader. This may be a
prelude to his joining the Qockies, and,
since Argyle is 72, it may be the doctor s
last flutter.
Hitherto the British public has taken
the I.R.A. threats and outrages very
calmly, even when informed of a plot to
succeed where Guy Fawkes failed. Its
attitude changed last week when bombs
were exploded in luggage-rooms at King's
Cross and Victoria stations, causing one
death and 17 cases of injuries, some of
them ghastly. In the result a Prevention
of Violence Bill was put through the
Commons without a division ; and if the
fiendish business goes on frenzied crowds
may take the law into their own hands.
A Canberra correspondent’s par.
printed in the “Sunday Sun” made Syd-
ney pressmen grin.
If, as Mr. Menzies formerly claimed,
the Government party should fight the
Country party in all electorates, Calare,
now insecurely held by Mr. Thorby, would
almost certainly go to Labor in a triangular
contest.
The “Sunday Sun” itself claims that the
Government party should fight the
Country party in all electorates, and its
editor himself has notions of carrying its
banner into the electorate that “would
almost certainly revert to Labor in a
triangular contest.” To the same Can-
berra correspondent Menzies is “a poli-
tical neophyte.”
The editor of the Sydney “Sun” calls
on Madame Tabouis.
It was a beautiful bright day of sun-
shine in June when I entered her apart-
ment. I was quite prepared when I left to
find the sky covered with black clouds
and an eerie wailing wind blowing coldly
down the road.
Lots of Australians have felt like that
after reading Madame’s marrow-freezers
in the “Sun” and its contemporaries. The
lady, it seems, “is not in favor with
French Ministers.”
They are indeed very hostile to her, and
they say that most of her information is
obtained from the Soviet Ambassador in
Paris.
No doubt. And for a Soviet Ambassador
it is not only permissible but laudable
to lie in the Cause.
The interventionist press no longer calls
Franco the Butcher, but it warns the fellow
that it is keeping an eye on him. As a sequel
to his statement that he didn’t believe
there would be a European war, and that
the peoples of the Peninsula wanted
peace, one Martelli let fly at him in two
ponderous articles, to the general effect
that proud Spain is in the grip of
“totalitarian thoroughness and ruthless-
ness,” Franco being only a name and a
uniform. Where does the interventionist
press dig up these know-alls with strange
foreign names, Martellis, Faragos and
Gunthers, who give Australia so much
instruction?
In previous years British trade-union
leaders were against the admission of the
Red Russians to the International Federa-
tion of Trade-unions. At the late
congress of that concern held in Swit-
zerland, Russian affiliation was proposed
by the British delegates. By 46 to 37
congress rejected it. Rejected also was a
motion proposing “collaboration for the
defence of peace and freedom on the
basis of an Anglo-French-Russian pact.”
The U.S. Federation of Labor and the
Swiss, Danish, Swedish and Finnish
delegates were on the no-use-for-Moscow
side.
The French have a short way with
mandates. Without bothering about
League sanction (not “sanctions”) they
ceded the so-called Hatay republic, which
Turks call the Sanjak of Alexandretta,
to Turkey, and they have apparently an-
nexed Syria—anyway they have “re-
placed the Syrian Parliament by a Coun-
cil of Directors, directly answerable to
the French High Commissioner.” The
capital of Syria is Danzig—beg pardon,
Damascus. Just on 21 years ago Westra-
lians of the Tenth Light Horse were
first into Damascus and marched through
the Street called Straight. The name
doesn’t seem to have influenced French
policy.


THE SPELL OF THE “SHOCKER.”
“The inclusion of ‘shockers’ in school libraries is advocated by a Tasmanian education officer.”


SECURITY FOR
yOUR SAVINGS...
Careful investors will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
shares of 20 Companies.
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
I Vr'rte for a free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V,V, G.P.0., SVDNEV
TELEPHONE: B 5294
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
JAPAN’S ECONOMIC CHALLENGE.
CHAIN STORES.
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING.
MINING NEWS FROM ALL FIELDS.
August Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by Tbs Bulletin Newspaper Co. pty.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
O. S. K.
DE LUXE
To AFRICA and SOUTH AMERICA
By FAST, NEW MOTOR SHIPS.
Ultra Modern
M.S. “ARGENTINA MARU”
and “BRASIL MARU.”
Designed for Tropical Travel. Appoint-
ments include De Luxe Suites, Indoor and
Outdoor Swimming Pools, Ballroom, etc.
Regular monthly sailings from Kobe via
Hongkong, Singapore, Colombo, Durban,
Capetown to South America.
Other New Motor Ships to East and West
African and South American ports.
For particulars apply:
Managing Agents in Australasia,
BIRT & COMPANY (PTY.), LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL ITEM
Edward Cunningham, doyen of Mel-
bourne journalists, celebrated his 80th
birthday the other day. The Cabbage
State was not 40 years old when he mi-
grated from the Speck and joined the
Bendigo “Advertiser” as a copy boy. He
became an “Argus” Parliamentary re-
porter -in 1881 when Deakin was in full
flower, and followed in the train of the
silver-tongued orator when he visited
Mexico and U.S.A. Cunningham sat in
the ‘Argus’s” editorial chair from 1906
to 1928, and has remained the paper’s
editorial adviser ever since.
Sol Bloom, who sponsored the Ameri-
can Neutrality Bill in the U.S.A. Con-
gress, was born in Melbourne, and
studied law at the University before he
went to America. The late Harrison
Moore, Law Professor from 1892 to 1927,
was his mentor, and Justice Martin was
a fellow-student.
Francis Stewart Boyce came to the
N. S. Wales Supreme Court Bench,
where, as Lusby delicately suggests, he
sits in Divorce, by way of a King’s Coun-
sellorship and a period as Attorney-
General of the State. He came into
public notice as a lawyer through his
defence of Jimmy Governor. Born at
Pepper’s Creek, Jumper’s Flat, Rockley
(N.S.W.), he was educated at The King’s
School, Parramatta, and got his degrees
at Sydney Uni. He took part in the fight
for Australian Federation under Barton’s
leadership as one of the secretaries of the
JUSTICE BOYCE.
N. S. Wales Federal Association. He
has been Deputy Grand Master of the
N. S. Wales Freemasons, is president of
the Prisoners’ Aid Association, and cele-
brated his 67th birthday last June.
Mark Fagan, who succeeds the ever-
green Carncross as Speaker of M.L.
Legislative Council, is a native of Tas-
mania, and started work as a pit boy.
Level-headed and practical, he derived
his political strength from the West Coast
coalminers, among whom he worked for
many years.
Maoriland police head, Commissioner
Cummings, who is attending the Com-
monwealth police conference in Brisbane
(it is the first time the Dominion has been
represented at these con-
ferences), stands 78 inches
in his socks, but modestly
admits that the force he
controls contains many
bigger men. He reports
that M.L. is not getting
many aliens, and that so
far there has been no talk
of spies over there.
There will be a rush of
youthful talent out of Vic-
toria in a day or so. In-
cluded in the migration
will be J. H. Chinner, the
forestry student who goes
to Oxford as 1939 Rhodes
scholar; Mollison Prize
winner Julian Wayden,
who goes to the Paris Sor-
bonne to study French;
C. R. Cochrane, who is
addressed to the same
famous university under a
French Government
scholarship; A. M. Mar-
diros, Cambridge Univer-
sity philosophy scholar, and
the Aitchison scholar in
English, W. A. G. Scott,
whose destination is
Oxford. L. B. Brand will
study economics in Lon-
don, and A. L. G. Beit in-
tends scientific research.
Music claims Noel Nick-
son, winner of the Clarke scholarship.
He is off to the Royal College of Music.
Skirted scholars include Nancy Hayward,
who is to study at the London School of
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
Nobody did more in the way of help-
ing Australians to see Australia first than
Albert Fewefl Ive, dead in Melbourne
at 64. He had been chief cinemato-
grapher to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment from 1913. Previous to that he
was producing news flicks for the J. D.
Williams concern when the films were in
their infancy.
At 25 Mervyn Austin, Victorian
Rhodes scholar of 1936, returns from
Oxford to become senior and honors
classics master at Melbourne Grammar
School, where he formerly was a pupil.
A graduate of Melbourne Uni., young
Austin is as conversant with Greek as
with his mother tongue. His recreation
is cricket. He captained Melbourne
Grammar a few years ago, and played
for University in Vic. district pennant
cricket before going to Oxford. A
younger brother is a master at the Sor-
bonne.
Melbourne inventor John Pomeroy,
who has been trying unsuccessfully to
interest the Commonwealth Defence
authorities in his new incendiary anti-
aircraft bullet, has found the U.S.A- War
Department less pernickety. The bullet
will be manufactured in the U.S.A. by the
Western Cartridge Co., parent of the
Winchester Repeating Arms Co., and in
40 other countries by various licensees.
Pomeroy sold a somewhat similar inven-
tion to Britain during the Great War, re-
ceiving £50,000. His new bullet is claimed
to have great penetrative power, and to
exude a large flame before bursting into
fragments.
The A.B.C. has hitherto confined its
“celebrities” imported from overseas to
the musical realm. Now it is to have
Dr. Robert Andrews Millikan, the well-
known American physicist, giving talks.
The first of a series of “celebrity talkers,”
there is no doubt of his credentials. He
won the Nobel Prize in 1923, discovered
the “cosmic ray,” and is chairman of the
executive council of the Norman Bridge
Laboratory of the Californian Techno-
logical Institute. He is 73.
In the old days of Queensland pioneer-
ing it used to be said that when a
traveller found a Cameron, Campbell,
Murray or MacPherson he knew that he
DONALD CAMERON.
(Modelled by Frith.)
had reached the edges of civilisation.
Donald Charles Cameron was one of the
early borderers of Central Queensland —
Barcaldine was his habitat. Of the next
generation was John Cameron, of Ken-
sington Downs, and the third is repre-
sented by Donald Charles Cameron,
K.C.M.G., who, born in 1879, looks no
more than 50. At 21, he went to the
S. African War and was mentioned by
Kitchener in dispatches for conspicuous
gallantry. When the Great War broke
out he was waiting on the doorstep,
served throughout, commanded the sth
Light Horse in the final two years, came
home with three wounds, the D. 5.0.,
C.M.G., the Order of the Nile and a
great reputation with his men. He imme-
diately won the Brisbane Federal seat, a
Labor stronghold, and held it till 1931.
He was twice a delegate to the League
Assembly—in ’23 and ’32, when he was
knighted. In the latter year he repre-
sented the Commonwealth before the
Mandates Commission. He came home
and held the Lilley (Q.) Federal seat for
another three years. He married a daugh-
ter of one' of the pioneering Jardines,
who made the first drive with cattle to
Cape York in 1865, and now, father con-
fessor to many a Digger and politician,
leader in Clan Cameron affairs in Aus-
tralia, he lives in Sydney.
John Willis, passed on in Sydney,
spent 61 of his 89 years as a work-
ing journalist. An article of his
appeared in the first issue of the
Singleton “Argus” (1874), and four years
later he bought the paper for £l2OO.
Later he established the Newcastle “Even-
ing Call.” Willis started again from scratch
on the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” in
1890. He was associated with other
papers, including the “S. M. Herald,”
before retiring in 1931.
Some August birthdays: -
Q’land's Gov. Wilson, 63, Justice Halse
Rogers (N.S.W.), 56, Coadjutor-Bishop Dixon
(Bris.), 70, and Prof. Robt. Wallace (Vice-
Chancellor, Syd. Uni.), 57, on Ist; S. H.
Smith (formerly N.S.W. Director of Educ.), 74,
on 2nd; merchant-knight Wallace Bruce (Adel.),
61, and Air Vice-Marshal Williams, 49,
on 3rd; author Brian Penton, 35, on 4th;
Federal Assistant Minister H. E. Holt, 31, on
sth; poetess Marie E. J. Pitt, former Gov.-Gen.
Isaacs, 84, knight Robert M. M. Anderson
(Syd.), 72, E. A. Southee (Hawkesbury Agric.
Coll.), 49, and Federal Minister for Commerce
S.A. Senator McLeay, 47, on 6th; author E. J-
Brady, 70, and knight Lennon Raws, 61, on
7th; knight E. T. Fisk (A.W.A.), 53, Federal
C.P. leader Earle Page, 59, and H. W. Cham-
pion (Papua), 59, on Bth; W.A. Premier John
Willcock, 60, on 9th; Speck’s former C.J.
Nicholls, 71, and Hugh McConaghy (chairman
C’wealth Tariff Board), 62, on 11th; knight
Frank Fox (London), 65, and knight Keith
Murdoch (Melb. “Herald”), 53, on 12th; Jock
Garden (Sydney), 57, on 13th; author Albert
Dorrington, 68, Prof. Morris Miller (Speck),
58, and Federal Minister for Health and Social
Services Fred Stewart, 55, on 14th; novelist
Erie Cox, 66, and Bishop Baker (Ridley Coll.),
57, on 15th; authors Marjorie Barnard and
Mary Gilmore on 16th; former Speck Senator
Payne, 73, on 17th; Prof. Stewart (Syd.), 70, on
18th; Prof. W. A. Laver (Melb.), 73, on 20th; poet
Will H. Ogilvie, 70, on 21st; just retired Judge
Curlewis (N.S.W.), 70, and former N.S.W. Min.
of Agric. Hugh Main, 56, on 22nd; Prof. F. A.
Bland (Sydney Uni.), 57, on 24th; Federal
Chief Justice Latham, 62, and W.A. Senator
MacDonald, 47, on 25th; Bishop Ash (Rock-
hampton), 57, Prof. T. R. Lyle, F.R.S. (Melb.),
79, Prof. W. A. Osborne (Melb.), 66, and author
Eleanor Dark, on 26th; Justice Dwyer (W.A.),
64, Prof. Angus (St. Andrew’s Coll., Syd.), 58,
and Archdale Parkhill (Syd.), 60, on 27th;
authors Vance Palmer, 54, and Winifred Bir-
kett, on 28th; Federal Minister of Supply and
Development R. G. Casey, 49, and author Doris
Kerr (“Capel Boake”), on 29th; R. Ewing,
of Federal Taxation celebrity, 68, and Am-
brose Pratt, 65, on 31st.
Thomas Roe Brinkworth, just ap-
pointed chairman of directors of the S.A.
Co-operative Farmers’ Union, comes of
pioneer farming stock. His grandfather,
with seven sons, came from England 100
years ago and took up land in S.A. T. H.
Brinkworth was born at Laura, S.A., 58
years ago ; got his first job on a farm
at five bob a week when 11, and at 20
started share-farming. He did well,
bought land, built up a prosperous farm-
ing and grazing property, and was able
T. R. BRINKWORTH.
to retire from life on the land at 40. He
became a director of the S.A.C.F.U. 17
years ago. He is also chairman of
Farmers’ Executive and Trustee Co., and
a director of the S.A. Co-operative Wheat
Pool and of the Co-operative Insurance
Co. of Australia. Is a notable bowler
and president of Toorak (S.A.) Bowling
Club.


“Here’s The Way
To Stop That Cold.
V''
H9WI
m
S'
V
<^s
V,
f
»V.\V>Vv ♦.wvvCvr.---. *.
I
&
Wolfe’s Schnapps contains
medicinal properties found
in no other spirit
The way to feel fit and well every day
is to take a daily glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps
—it sends a rich glow of health right
through the system.
Wolfe’s Schnapps contains unique medicinal
properties found in no other spirit and is
highly recommended to tone up the system.
Take it hot with lemon at bedtime and
you will wake bright and fresh in the
morning.
WOLFES
UtOMATZC
rSCMEHAM
pPHQOUCT or HOI4AMD.
smw««rja»
yj, <ojr r
g^sss&ssg:
UT!f rarifLßl.
In-
WOLFE'S
(zJrromdtic couii&da/r)
SCHNAPPS
For Y our
Health's Sake


ABORIGINALITIES
“Cam Cove”: Can we get together on
the ages of Australian trees? The Sepa-
ration Tree in Melbourne was an old-man
red-gum more than 100 years ago, and
he is a very sick old grandfather now,
doomed soon to join his ancestors. His
age is estimated variously up to 600 years.
In the Fitzroy Gardens the dead stump
carved by Ola Cohn as a fairyland for
children is said to be 700 years old, but
how long it has been dead no one can say.
There are many other old stumps in Mel-
bourne, but none so old as this. At War-
randyte (Vic.) a great red-gum has a
hoary record of 500 years. What is the
limit? And is there any possibility of an
original gum being extant? By that I
mean after the time they deserted the sea
sludge and took to living on dry land.
Bushmen speak of the second and third
generations of trees, but I have never been
able to fathom what that means. I want
to see a tree that has weathered the
storms for 1000 years or more. Is there
such a Methuselah anywhere in the con-
tinent?
* $ $
“Lespy”: “Yer must and it ter these
blokes wot tries ter get inter Parlerment,”
said old Ben, the handyman. “I’m work-
in’ fer a bloke one time wot wos standin’
fer our distric’. ’E ’ad good ideas, and
’e could tell ’em in ’is own way, but ’e
was no good at makin’ speeches, so ’e
goes ter one o’ these places where they
makes ’em up fer ’im. ’E gets two at a time
an’ ’e reads ’em out ter the mob wot
gathers round ’is soapbox. This goes on fer
a while till ’e gets the bill from the speech
joint. The speeches is costing too much,
so ’e ’as a bright idea. ’E only gets one
at a time, an’ ’e reads it out one night.
Next night ’e takes ’is false teeth out
and reads it again, an’ the mob thought
it was a different speech.”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: Is there any connec-
tion between deafness and temperament?
People who are very hard of hearing
generally speak in soft tones, and they are
often humorous and jolly. But the
“ What’s it loike in, Bill ?”
actually deaf people I have met in the
bush, while generous to the last degree,
were given to volcanic explosions of pas-
sion. Knew one George at the Pound
Bend (Vic.). He died at the age of 72,
and his life seems to have been a mer-
curial passage of bubbling temper, sub-
siding always into lamblike placidity.
He built a bark hut on the Bend. His
father came to live with him, but in a
few days’ time the old man went hurtling
out into the unsympathetic world, his be-
longings tumbling about his head. But
George was a simple soul. He devoted his
spare hours to teaching the deaf-and-dumb
language to little children, mostly at the
cradle stage. Before they were able to
speak they had learned to express them-
selves on their fingers, and they found
this a better way of making their
demands than howling for what they
wanted. They never saw George out of
sorts, but the adults remember him
always fussing about with his little finger
pointing down for “bad,” ready for arty
eventuality.
Hi * *
“Jabariau”: It was hot on the east
bank of the Daly River (N.T.), and en-
sconced within her bower of bamboo
Mrs. Pintpot was loath to be disturbed.
But her two piccaninnies were begging
and grizzling—if they’d been a couple
of white kids around a big city I’d have
sworn they were asking for ice-cream
or an icy pole. Their pleadings finally
won. Rising languidly, their lady mother
took a pitchi, together with a grinding-
stone, from her dillybag, and reached for
the nest of green ants that decorated a
near-by tree. A slight shake, and a
thousand greenies were wrestling in the
pitchi. Then deft work with the stone,
mashing up the centre mob and at the
same time flattening the several hundred
escapees that dashed for the edge of the
dish. All reduced to one final mash, ade-
quate water was added. More mashing
and stirring, and there it was —the N.T.
equivalent to raspberry vinegar or some-
thing similar. No white kids ever lapped
up ice-cream more gratefully. Then
more water added, and a further mash-
ing—and mamma refreshed herself. But
there was evidently still some virtue in
the ingredients ; with just a covering of
water the pitchi’s contents were laid
aside, possibly as a refresher for pa
should he arrive home thirsty from the
chase.
* * * *
“Chips”: “Strika da light,” Tony yelled
excitedly, “I bin liva dis countree da
12 year and spika da good Ing, da good
Auss as everybody, and whata I get, eh?
I getta da insul’. It’s lika dis. I go
in da competish to sing, gooda prizes
for da ladies and da gents. I sing lika da
Caruse, plenty da ’ooray when 1 finish.
Plenty more da blokes sing. Then da
wimmens yell, pulla da face, showa da
teeth. All ri\ Den da boss bloke holda
da hand up, spika da wins, Mr. Tony
Galotti winna da gents, Mrs. Maree
Brown da ladies. I smile and bow lika
hell, and da bloke say, ‘Tony, you lucky
da dog, you winna da first prize,’ and den
I go crook. ‘Dog, eh? You calla me
da dog?’ I yell. ‘For two pins I job you
fair between da nose, you’ Den
he say, ‘I don’t meana nodin’ lika dat;
it jus’ mean you da good fell’, an’ I
wanta you present da lady’s prize to
Mrs. da Brown.’ ‘Oh! righto,’ I say.
‘Dat da difference matter,’ an’ I do dat,
ver’ pleased. ‘Mrs. da Brown,’ I say,
and doa da bes’ smile, ‘youa da lucky
bitch, you winna da firs’ prize for da
ladies.’ Da nex’ minnit I doa da run
like de Ajax or I bin killa da stone dead.
Talka about me goa da crook!”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: When Phizgig asked me
for a good place to spend a holiday I
recommended the middle Murray River,
and fell to telling him yarns of the cod
I had caught in my time. Others tried
to wean him from the old river with tales
of wonder places, but I stuck to hini
right till the moment he got on the train
for Albury and points west. Three weeks
later he walked in, struck an attitude, and
displayed bulging muscles. Amazed, the
mob guessed he’d developed ’em rowing,
swinging the axe, swimming, deep-
breathing. Only I, the old river rat,
knew the truth. Phizgig had built ’em
up pulling in fish!
* *
“D. 0.”: There may not be enough
bread in a thousand acres of breadfruit
to make a poultice, as an Aboliar recently
asserted, but if he thinks they contain no
food he errs. On the drier, less-fertile
atolls of the Pacific they have a definite
food value. These islands are subject to
long droughts, and nearly everything else
but the pandanus suffers. The natives
open the fruit, which is shaped very
remotely like a breadfruit, and eat the
nuts. They also store them against lean
times, and sometimes live for a consider-
able time on them. They are starvation
diet and not very tasty, but they cer-
tainly form a valuable food reserve. In
the more fertile islands natives simply
won’t look at them ; in fact, on many
islands they consider them inedible.
$ $ * *
“Dungeness”: The old bush argument
as to whether ’roos or emus are the
faster over the ground rages once more
in N.Q. A carefully recorded observa-
tion by E. R. Manly, of Warrnambool
Downs (N.Q.), helps to clear up the
matter. Driving a speedy car over clear
level ground he came on a mixed mob
of some 100 ’roos in company with 50
emus feeding on a plain six miles long. A
fence enabled them to be kept from
breaking away. At 30 m.p.h. the big old
buck ’roos were caught and passed. At 35
m.p.h. the car kept pace with the emus.
The younger flying bucks and does were
drawing well away from the emus, and
after being overtaken by the car kept
on at 45 m.p.h. for two miles before
tiring. As they fell back the emus caught
up and maintained a steady 35 m.p.h. to
the end of the six-mile run. The con-
clusion reached was that, while the flying
bucks and does were speedier, the emus
were better stayers and would overhaul
any ’roo in a long run.
* * * *
“Double Dee”: Know a Westralian
bushman who gambles on cayenne pepper
as a sure remedy for the ’flu. Half. a
teaspoon in half a tumbler of water will,
according to him, either prevent its onset
or settle the demon even when it’s got a
good grip on a victim. He admits it s
“crook to take,” but, as he points out,
“so is everything else that does yer any
good.”
•f* * *
“Yarragundry”: Even a bull pup can
disorganise shearing operations. Slipping
its collar, it snuffled up against the leg of
a woolroller, who promptly joined the
fleece or) the table. B.P. then mounted
the three steps to the shearing board,
vastly interested in the machines. The
end man was just finishing a sheep, and
as B.P. stuck its nose into the shearer’s
face the barber yelled, dropped the hand-
piece. still in gear, and charged into his
catching pen. The boss appeared and
sent one ofthe hands off with B.P. to tie
it up. On the way it bit the rouse-
about on the hand and escaped, the
former omitting to mention the pup was
still at large when he returned. When
at lunchtime no cook or lunch appeared
the rep., investigating, found the babbler,
scared to death, shut in the storeroom and
the pup on the table wading into the
lunch.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: All tribes of aboriginals
were not equally proficient in the use of
the boomerang, the type of country
which constituted the tribal domains
having great influence in this direction.
Thus, on the open plains of the interior,
where few trees existed to hamper the
flight of the weapon, the abo. marksman
was marvellously accurate. He had to
be, since there was also little cover by
which he could creep near enough to the
game to put in good work with the spear.
In launching the kylie the thrower could
almost crouch, thus causing the minimum
of alarm to the prospective quarry, while
to ship a spear in a wommera meant that
the thrower rose to full height and then
launched the shaft. Which is why among
the dense karri and jarrah forests of
Westralia’s south-west the kylie was used
for little other than bringing down water-
fowl or striking at shoals of fish in shal-
low water. In the Kimberleys the kylie
also is used for little else than striking
at fish, the spear being quite the main
weapon. Here rock and tree predomi-
nate as landscape features, with obvious
advantage to the ambushed spearsman.
It is just because of this difference be-
tween tribes that some detribalised nigs
look absolute goats when asked to
demonstrate their skill with the boomer-
ang before city or overseas visitors.
Jfc * # *
“Heresone”: A blucher-boot may not
always turn a heavy axe blow (B.
12/7/’39), but that hardly means that
it offers little more protection to
the feet than canvas. My steel toe-
plates have many a time turned axes,
tomahawks, mattocks, brush-hooks and
cane-knives that would have qualified
me to draw compensation had I been
wearing sandshoes. I’ve seen maniacs
cutting cane barefooted but not for
me. And I think “M.V.S.” had his
leg well pulled with that white shoe yarn.
A woodcutter who watched his feet in-
stead of his work would soon lose a toe
—and deserve it. Add that the uppers of
sandshoes are not thornproof, nor are the
soles much protection against stones, and
they don’t support tired feet like thick
leather. Has “M.V.S.” ever heard of
soldiers marching in light footwear?
MURRUNDI.
(Murrundi was the Narnyeri tribe’s name for the
River Murray.)
Roll, Murrundi, roll
From the world’s white towering breast
Where never Narnyeri, the tribesmen, strode.
Where never canoes of the warriors rode,
Where Bari, the moon, has his starry abode.
Roll, Murrundi, roll
To the sea past the wolds of the west.
Roll, Murrundi, roll,
Cool and crystal and clear.
Cliff-face and gum cast their shadows mute,
Pierced by the carp in the sunbeam’s pursuit.
Or feathery wake of the shrill-throated coot.
Roll soft on your shoals,
No breakers may ever break here.
Roll, see the smoke roll,
Trailing your course from the north.
What are those omens of spirals upcurl’d?
Comes a strange people from top of the world!
Pass on the warnings with smoke-drifts un-
furled.
Roll, smoke-clouds, out-roll;
Narnyeri’s war-drums, roll forth!
Hold, Murrundi, hold;
Strange the canoes that you steer,
With sallow merkana adrift on your flood,
Pallid of skin over pallor of blood,
Soon to grow dark in your ebony mud.
Roll, Murrundi, roll,
Through ambush of pankettye and spear.
Watch, warriors, watch!
A thousand white eyeballs gleam through:
Above is the magpies’ corroboree heard,
Whilst here but the rustling of rushes, wind-
stirred,
A fugitive snake or a frighted marsh bird.
Watch, warriors, watch:
Murrundi fights with us, too.
Roll, Murrundi, roll,
Your stream now murky as tar.
Blood of the whites has polluted your tide.
The bream and the callop have sickened and
died,
The black duck has flown to the Coorong to
r, „ h i d , e - ~ „
the bar.
Roll, centuries, roll,
Mother of Life, roll on.
The folk of Narnyeri have now gone before,
Their youkees will ne’er again flash from the
shore. .
And, what of the White Man? He rides you
Roll, n Murrundi, roll,
To the ocean’s great gateway of stone.
s.a.
WALTER WESTCOTL


“Colonel B.”: Realising that it is only
a comfortable eight days by air from
London to Cloncurry (n.-w. Q.), an Eng-
lish friend took a run out to look at his
mining interests. Two days later he was in
Brisbane rejoicing over Australian loyalty.
“Y’know, Bungstarter,” he confided over
the second pre-prandial cocktail, “it isn’t
only that they’ve named the place
Duchess, but even the local pub is the
Countess Hotel. I call it really decent,
what with the Duke coming so soon as
Governor-General. Always thought you
Australians were a bit red-raggy an’ all
that sort of thing.” Now, could a mere
colonial explain, after that handsome
compliment to his countrymen, that
Duchess and Countess were the two pet
gins of the original pastoralist holder in
that area, and that John Henry’s mis-
chievous sense of humor had been respon-
sible for the perpetuation of their aristo-
cratic nicknames when mining followed?
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Who said the course of
true love never ran smooth? Ah amor-
ous pair, sitting in the moonlit doorway
of a little-used country lockup, spied the
constable moving across from the dance-
hall adjacent. Thoughtlessly they slipped
inside. Thoughtfully the man in blue
closed and locked the door and went
home to bed. And the moonstruck twain,
cast for contempt, did time till the rising
of the Law.
* * :;i
“Reefmonger”: If a man rambling
along the reef sees a hole a couple of
inches in diameter in a muddy patch,
around which is a collection of empty
shells, he needn’t hold a guessing bee:
that’s a reef octopus’s home. Possessing
tentacles up to about 2ft. 6in. in length,
with sucking-disks that could pull a swas-
tika off a Nazi, that insect takes the occu-
pants of those shells home to dinner.
When finished it arranges the domiciles
of the late departed in a neat little circle
round his front doorstep.
”So long, Ma, I'll be back with yous soon as I’ve settled this international shindy.”
“Gryllus”: To make an antbed tennis
court we have destroyed dozens of great
cities whose inhabitants have solved most
of the Social problems that vex us humans
so sorely, and Which may yet extinguish
our race. Sex problems have no terrors
for them —one great swollen queen lays
myriads of eggs for years after a single
honeymoon. Two Or three immature
supplementary queens are ready to take
up her duties in case of death; Her eggs
hatch to a uniform pattern of baby ter-
mite, from which the blind sexless
workers shape, by feeding, the material
for future building, food-collecting and
defence of the city, and for extension of
the species. Most become workers.
Others are made into sexless soldiers, in-
fantry with great shearing jaws, poison-
throwers With elongated beaks discharg-
ing a White fluid, living shields whose
broad heads can fill a breach against an
enemy attack. Yet others become Winged
males and females, leaving the nest on
marriage flights to found new cities, and
dropping their Wings into Our tea On
many a summer evening.
* * *
“C. G. Sails”: An old bush custom
that is dying out is the “beddihg-dbwn”
of the fire each night. The ashes were
raked away from the corner of the fire-
place and a solid, chunky piece Of wood
(box, for choice) was put there and
covered with the hot ashes. The early-
riser woke to find a Warm hearth, a
nucleus of glowing coals to start the day's
fire, and a kett’e of warm water that
quickly boiled to make the day’s best
cup of tea. From the first fire of autumn
to the last fire of spring the fireplace
never cooled. But modern fireplaces are
often too small to make the practice safe,
and often wood is not as plentiful as it
was. Probably the custom Was introduced
by Scottish and Irish pioneers who were
used to the peat fires of the home country
—fires which in some cases burned con-
tinuously in the granite fireplaces for
generations on end.
* * * *
“Keep Out”: Constable Denholm,
N.S.W. police, gave a demonstration with
trained Alsatians at Hawkesbury agri-
cultural conference. In the course of a
lecture he said the dogs mostly started
chasing sheep as a game. When the
sheep tired the dog nipped it, just to
liven it up, finally drew blood, and then
the game (and the sheep, presumably)
Was up. He said there Was a theory
that something in the yolk was attractive
to a dog. His other theory is that a
bitch works better for a man, and a dog
better for a woman.
* * 4= *
“B. A. Ker”: Boiling water may kill
makes, but I’m satisfied that a blue-
tongued lizard Would have to be boiled
personally before he’d punch the bundy.
A cocky’s city bride hailed me at the
Sliprails in breathless agitation. There
Was a death-adder down near the fowl-
rUns and hubby was away, and would I
come and kill him—the death-adder, not
hubby—and she’d trapped him so he
couldn’t get away and thrown boiling
Water over him and he wouldn’t die, etc.
The “death-adder,” a harmless old
"Stop being funny, Number Seven, or you'll be disqualified!”
“bluey,” was trapped all right—with a
rake on his back and an ingenious system
of logs on the handle weighing it down.
He’d been anointed with three kettlefuls
of boiling water, and, expecting to find
him fit for a blackfellow’s breakfast, I
released the applied mechanics. Old Bluey
put all his accumulated wrath into one
vicious snap at the rake, then belted it for
the scrub —and I always used to reckon
a bluey was slow!
* =H * *
“Ophir”: Every snake I’ve watched
take a meal used the end joints of its
tail to serve as feeder and pusher ; the
jaws pulling while the tail pushes at the
moments of labor. Though it isn’t gener-
ally known, those end joints are the
nerve-centre of its body—unless it gets
a grip with them it can’t constrict. Any
snake, if its tail is held so that it can’t
be curled, will wriggle and twist about
as flaccid as a bit of chewed string. But
let it get a grip with the tail, and the
muscles of its body will run up and down
as constrictive power comes into play.
* * * *
“Tiger”: Those fellows arguing on
hard work have missed an important
factor; the adaptability of the individual.
Some men can treat the most laborious
work as a trifle ; others, perhaps bigger
and stronger, will labor and stagger like
a leg-weary horse. Learning to shear
was the most gruelling experience I ever
had, and staying a bit of a mug at it I
turned it in. But give me a pick and bar
on any sort of face, muck or stone, and
the time lopes by like a hare in spring.
On the other hand, with finicky jobs
that require a bit of manipulating, such
as lagging steampipes, the clock assumes
an adamantine stare. But, next to shear-
ing, the most trying job I tackled was
learning to use a jackhammer. What
with the wattsr cutting out, sludge,
fitchery ground and pebbles running
down the hole, a man just feels the world
is conspiring against him.
* * * *
“Geraldton”: Mention in B. 5/7/’39
of the naming of Mt. Magnet (W.A.)
recalls that Austin in the same locality
put two other mounts on the map, Mt.
Charles and Mt. Farmer. These com-
memorate the tragic death of a member
of the expendition and the unsung faith-
fulness of a casual abo., Sambo. Water
was scarce around Mt. Magnet in ’54
and game by no means plentiful. Taking
a shotgun and Sambo as a tracker,
Charles Farmer set off to bring in a ’roo,
the rest of the party meanwhile keeping
on. Miles out, the trigger tangled in a
bush, and the charge of heavy shot
mangled Farmer’s arm right to the elbow.
Agonised, Farmer, who was only 22, was
soon unable even to stand. So the abo. ,
took him up pickaback. It was over
three days before they caught up with
the now-halted expedition. Farmer died
of tetanus, but lived long enough to tell
how Sambo had carried him all the way
and had given him all the water. They
had carried a single bottleful, thinking to
be out only a short time, and from this
throughout the whole three days the abo.
had refrained from even a sip, though
the weather was hot —so hot that ulti-
mately the entire party barely escaped
perishing from thirst.
FASHION NOTE.
“Outdoor America, as depicted on the screen, has
influenced the dress of outback Australia. On one
big station in south-west Queensland musterers favor
the well-cut riding breeches and short-sleeved silk
shirt so fashionable with the playboys of Holly-
wood. That’s the influence the film colony wields.’’
—Movie mag.
Where sheep and cattle have their habitation
The shearers’ cook now sports a marcel
wave ;
The bloke who rides the fences on the station
Wears silken hose and has his daily shave;
The well-creased jodhpur is an innovation
O’er which the musterers and stockmen rave.
A man these days, they claim, looks simply
dirt
In moleskins and a Balaclava shirt!
Old-timers, with their whiskers badly tarnished,
Who’ve fossicked, “done the sheds” and
humped their swags,
Will view askance the hair that’s highly var-
nished
On pickers-up and coves that cut off dags,
And “ringers” who the board have graced and
garnished
With polo sweaters and their Oxford bags.
The 0.-ts. reckoned they “was prop’ly dressed”
In hobnails, ancient strides and open vest.
But “hands” have now adopted an ambition
To dress like Cary Grant or Richard Dix;
They’ve entered into lively competition
To see which one sartorially “clicks.”
They trust thereby to gain some recognition
That they’re by no means mere bucolic
“hicks.”
You can’t achieve a Holly wooden poise
In bluchers, Jackie Howe and corduroys!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


sdf
Inspect the
IMPERIAL
“Good Companion”
Portable Typewriter
before you purchase a Typewriter and
YOU WONT BUY ANY OTHER
STATE DISTRIBUTORS.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Dobell Pty., Ltd., 107
Pitt Street, Sydney; Johnson & Hey, 37
Hunter Street, Newcastle. QUEENSLAND:
L. Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd., Creek Street,
Brisbane. VICTORIA: Geo. Raitt & Co-
Ltd., 40 Queen Street, Melbourne. S'OUTII
AUSTRALIA: Holdsworth & Coy., Ltd.. 51
Grenfell Street, Adelaide. WESTERN
AUSTRALIA: Burridge & Warren, Ltd., 69
King Street, Perth. TASMANIA: J. C.
MePhee Pty., Ltd., 99' Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND AGENTS: Armstrong A
Springhall, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wanganui.
£’s £’s £’s LOWER in Price.
POUNDS LIGHTER in Weight.
A COMPLETELY Standard Typewriter.
WILL OUTLAST any other Machine
(ask any user) and it’s made in ENG-
LAND.
FREE COURSE IN TYPEWRITING
—for every purchaser of a typewriter. A thoroughly
complete, and concise Manual. Any student who
conscientiously completes this course cannot fail to
become an expert typist.
ADAMS’ (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- ami 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from IS noon (Sunday. 12.15 p.in.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Offices Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £509,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929. . 137,898 10 p.e. = 84,232 53,666 323,579
1930.. 118.349 10 „ „ 84,232 34,117 357,696
1931.. 43,762 5 „ ~42,116 1,646 359,342
Written off shares in other cos., £10,000.. 349,342
1932.. 14,820 2i p.c. =21,058 343,104
1933.. 41,037 5 „ ~42,116 342.025
Profit on sale of Consols, £B5Bl .. 350,606
1934.. 40,479 6 p.c. = 40,432 47 350,653
Surplus on realisation of assets, £12,549.. 363,202
Prom doubtful debts reserve, £452.. 363,654
Written off shares in other cos., £6958.. 356,696
1935.. 76,471 p.c. = 50,540 25,931 382,627
From doubtful debts reserve, £193 .. 382,820
1936.. 78,015 10 p.e. = 67,386 10,629 393,449
Surplus on investment, £4044 .. .. 397,493
1937.. 83,108 10 p.c. = 67,386 15,722 413,215
Tax provision written back, £7368 .. 420,583
1938.. 97.101 124 p.c. =84,233 12,868 433,451
1939.. 98,340 124,, ~ 84,233 14,107 447,558
Continued expansion of building
activity, extension of water-supply and
irrigation schemes, reconstruction of
tram tracks, erection of new silos, con-
struction of defence works and the grow-
ing use of cement for domestic purposes
gave sales a further lift last term. More-
over, Australian Portland Cement (paid
capital £2,000,000), the operating concern
in which this co. (paid capital £673,862)
and Australian Cement, Ltd. (paid capital
£760,433), are equal partners, has lately
spent a considerable sum of money on
improvements and additions to plant;
and that ought to mean a lot so far as
costs, which are the bugbear of industry
at the moment, are concerned.
The Kandos works (capacity 200,000
tons p.a.) share the N. S. Wales market
with four other producers, total plant
capacity for the State being 720,000 tons
p.a., and yet another manufacturer is
preparing to enter the field. The only seri-
ous competitor of the Fyansford plant
(capacity lifted to over 300,000 tons p.a.
by installation of a new 100,000-ton unit
last term), which is the only producer in
Vic., ,is Goliath, of Railton, Tas. Plant
capacity of Australian Portland is now
nearly one-half total capacity of all plants
in N. S. Wales, Victoria and Tasmania.
The curtain is kept drawn over the
operating co.’s figures, which are made
up to the end of May ; such information
as is available suggests that substantial
allowances are made for depreciation,
etc., before anything is sent along to the
holding cos.
For the 12 months to the end of June
Kandos received enough to pay its own
exes., which are small, provide for taxa-
tion and show an extra £1239 of profit,
or £98,340 in all, equal to 14.5 p.c. on
capital, as against 14.4, 12.3, 11.5, 11.3,
4.8, 4.9 and 1.6 p.c. back to 1932, when
the bottom fell out of the construction
trades. The distribution was kept at
12} p.c.
As for the current term, costs are still
on the up-grade, owing to the lift in
wages, further prospective increase in
taxation and reduction of hours in the
industry, and 3s. per ton was recently
chipped off the price of cement f.o.b.
operating co.’s works. Still, increased
expenditure on defence works and main-
tenance of vigorous spending, especially
in N. S. Wales, on other public works
should further increase the demand for
cement.
The market notes this and the operating
co.’s recent improvements to plant, etc.,
and has lengthened its bid for Kandos
scrip, paid to 165., from 265. 3d. early in
1939 to 31s. last week-end. Over the same
period Australian Cement’s pound shares
moved up from 345. 6d. to 38s. Previ-
ously Kandos shares were undervalued
in relation to those of Australian
Cement; now the market for the two
is approximately in line, as the following
comparison shows: —•
Pace Net
Value Market Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, gibles.*
Kandos . . 16/- 31/- 124 p.c. 6.4 p.c. 33/3
Aust. Cement 20/- 38/- 124 „ 6.5 „ 28/1
* Per £ 1 of paid capital.
For each £lOO of its own capital Kan-
dos owns approximately £l4B and Aus-
tralian Cement £l3l of the operating co.’s
capital.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 24,002 10 p.c. = 21,000 3.002 55,111
1930.. 23,944 9 „ „ 18,900 5,044 60,155
1931.. 7,771 24 „ „ 5,250 2,521 62,676
1932.. S,SOS 3'„ „ 6,300 2,505 65,181
1933.. 13,522 5 „ „ 10,500 3,022 68,203
1934.. 18,757 74 „ ~ 15,750 3,007 71,210
Reserves capitalised, £42,001 .. 29,209
Unexplained addition, £750 .. 29,959
1935. . 22,152 74 p.c. =18,901 3,251 33,210
1936.. 25,143 8 „ ~ 20.161 4,982 38,192
1937.. 33,496 10 „ ~25,201 8,295 46,487
1938.. 31.732 10 „ ~25,201 6,531 53,018
1939.. 25,875 9 ~ ~22,681 3,194 56,212
The Metropole has always been a popu-
lar rendezvous for the man on the land
when he comes to the city. Its net earn-
ings, therefore, depend partly upon con-
ditions in the primary industries, as well
as upon the length of city payrolls,
Arbitration Court awards, which affect
the co.’s own wage bill, and the demands
of the taxgatherer. Still, the effect of the
fall in the prices of wool and wheat upon
the 1938 figures was largely offset by
Sydney’s sesquicentenary celebrations,
which brought a lot of visitors to the
city.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, prices for the staples just
mentioned remained low, which meant
that wool and wheat men were inclined to
spend less freely, while the wage and tax
bills continued to climb. After setting
aside £3OOO (same as for the previous
term) for depreciation, and £7500 (down
£500) for taxation, the board figured the
net result £5857 short of the previous
year’s at £25,875, or 10.2 p.c. on capital
as against 12.2, 13.3, 9.9 and 8.7 p.c. for
the four, preceding years. Since the board
considers the outlook to be very clouded,
a point was chipped off the div., reducing
it to 9 p.c.
For 20 years to the close of accounts
in 1929 shareholders got a steady
10 p.c., sweetened with £75,000 of
bonus scrip and special cash distributions
totalling £67,500. Then slump dried up
the flow of country visitors, the Harbor
Bridge further affected bar takings, and
the div. dropped to 2} p.c. in ’3l. Still,
by ’34 things looked good enough to
scatter a further £42,001 of bonus scrip,
and earnings kept on climbing till ’37.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1931. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £210,007 £252,010 £252,010 £252,010
Liabilities T . 30,331 11,504 11,194 9,510
Fixed assets.. 311,317 291,317 288.317 285,317
Stock.. .. 3,770 2,544 2,756 2,608
Book debts, cash,
etc 1,927 44,452 51,888 53,608
The year’s growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£46,706) was £3256, mak-
ing the improvement £71,340 since ’3l.
In this class of business much depends
upon what is spent on repairs, renewals
and renovations and charged against
earnings. The board regularly reports
that “the whole of the assets have been
maintained in every respect,” and the
co.’s history supports the claim.
Over the last two years the co.’s pound
shares have steadily receded from 365. to
31s. 6d. in the market. At the lower
figilre the return is 5.7 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis. The cover is 245. sd. in net
tangibles.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends >
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£> £/ £, £■ £
1929.. 26,211 26 121 p.c. =19,560 6,625 168,585
1930.. 20,123 26 10 „ „ 15,647 4,450 173,035
1931.. 16,012 23 10 „ ~ 15.647 339 173,374
Tax reserve drawn on, £2729.. .. 170,645
1932.. 9,737 26 8 p.c. = 12,518 167,838
Tax reserve drawn on, £1666 .. 166,172
1933.. 6,799 13 8 p.c. = 6,259 527 166,699
Tax reserve drawn on, £1249 .. .. 165,450
1934.. 10,123 8 p.c. = 6,259 3,864 169,314
Reserves capitalised, £26,080.. .. 143,234
Tax reserve drawn on, £1663 .. 141,571
1935.. 13,789 8 p.c. = 8,345 5,444 147,015
Tax reserve drawn on, £2490 . . 144,525
1936.. 18,333 8 p.c. = 8,345 9,988 154,513
Loss liquidation subsidiaries, £1993.. 152,520
Tax reserve drawn on, £2918 . . 149,602
1937.. 21,635 10 p.c. - 10,432 11,203 160,805
Tax reserve drawn on, £3BBB . . 156,917
1938.. 26,348 10 p.c. = 10,432 15,916 172,833
Reserves capitalised, £34,773 .. 138,060
Tax reserve drawn on, £5738 .. 132,322
1939.. 26,559 10 p.c. = 13,909 12,650 144,972
After General Motors’ agency was
relinquished in 1930, distributing rights
were acquired, covering Queensland and
the Northern Rivers of N. S. Wales, for
Morris cars and trucks, and agencies for
Nash and Studebaker cars, Philco and
Hollingsworth radios and ElectrlCE
refrigeration were later added to the list
—the Studebaker agency was acquired
toward the close of last accounts.
For many years more had been sent to
reserves and invested outside the business
than was distributed. Partly because of this
the div. never dropped below 8 p.c. during
the early and difficult 1930’5, and the
board was able to return the handful of
pref. capital and 10s. per ord. share
(£78,240) in 1933. During the decade
to the close of accounts in 1925, £60,000
was transferred from reserves to capital,
£26,080 was capitalised (one for three)
in 1934, and £34,773 'was similarly treated
(one for three) during the last term,
making paid capital £139,093, which had
the support and assistance of £144,972
of reserves when the books last closed.
Capital and reserves combined have
therefore to turn in only 4.9 p.c. in order
to show 10 p.c. on capital alone. The
average rate of div. for the seven years
to the close of accounts in 1931 was
13.2 p.c., and for the eight years since
8.7 p.c.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, sales of Morris cars and
commercial vehicles increased, and so did
turnover in the refrigeration and wire-
less sections of the business. The spring
in gross earnings (£119,180) was £5735.
Exes. (£92,621) took all but £2ll of
the increase, leaving the declared net
result at £26,559. Taking a net reduc-
tion of £5738 in the tax reserve into the
reckoning, the profit was £1639 lighter
at £20,821, or 14.9 p.c. on capital as it
now stands. On capital as it stood before
the last gift, the profit was 19.9 p.c., as
against 21.5, 17.5, 15.1 and 11.6 p.c. for
the four preceding terms. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., which was equal to 13.3
p.c. on capital as it stood immediately
prior to the gift issue just referred to.
Finances are very snug:
1932. 1935'. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £156,905 £104,320 £104,320 £139,093
Sundry creditors 2,557 36,538 47,035 44,867
Freehold . . '66,516 66,516 66,596 69,610
Plant, etc. . . 192 634 1,300 1.392
Stocks.. .. 61,178 93,975 76,870
Book debts, in-
vestments, etc. .202,236 163,960 171,830 188,456
Shares in sub-
sidiaries . . 54,517 3,390 v
Cash, etc. . . 16.383 540 919 6,514
Chief movements in last year’s figures
were a reduction of £17,105 in stocks
(they appear at or under cost) and a
growth of £16,626 in debtors’ balances
and investments —an untidy entry. The
more or less liquid surplus improved by
£7284, reaching £226,973, equal to 325.
Bd. per pound of paid capital.
The market, which at the moment can
see nothing likely to disturb the 10 p.c.
distribution, prices the pound shares,
covered by net tangibles with a book
value of 40s. 10d., at 355. 6d. At the
lastmentioned figure the return is 5.6 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 20,886 10 p.e. = 15,000 5,886 169,451
1930.. 9,528 74 „ ~11,250 167,729
1931.. 8,560 5 „ ~ 7,500 1,060 168,789
1932.. 17,051 6„ „ 9,000 8,051 176,840
-1933.. 13,840 7 „ ~10,500 3,340 180,180
1934.. 28,071 8 „ ~ 12,000 16,071 196,251
Reserves disappear, £107,677 .. 88,574
1935.. 13.533 9 p.c. = 13,500 33 88,607
1936.. 18,196 9 „ „ 13,500 4,696 93,303
June,
1937*. 7,660 10 „ „ 7,500 160 93,463
1938.. 15,037 124 t, ~18,750 89,750
1939.. 15,023 10 ~ „ 15,000 23 89,773
* Six months.
t Including- 21 p.c. sesquieentenary bonus.
The wide fluctuations in earnings since
1934 are more apparent than real, being
due mainly to alterations in the method
of bookkeeping and in the balancing date.
The co.’s vessels ply daily between Sydney
and Newcastle, and have done so since
1891, when the old Hunter River and
the Newcastle S.S. cos, were welded into
the present organisation. Rail, motor
and air transport have left the co. no
passenger traffic worth mentioning ; earn-
ings now depend mainly upon the length
of manifests, which are governed by the
state of industrial activity at Newcastle,
where commencement of wool sales a
few years back and the recent quicken-
ing of output by B.H. Prop, and others
in the heavy industries have increased
the volume of cargo offering, thus offset-
ting the effects of changed business con-
ditions on the coalfields.
The industrial trouble among the
miners had no effect upon last term’s
earnings. Certainly the board wrote the
net result £l4 short of the previous year’s,
but that was after paying larger wages
and tax bills and allowing £13,202 (up
£5937), equal to 9.7 p.c. of the book value
of fixed assets at June 30, for deprecia-
tion. The £15,023 of profit claimed was
1.0 p.c. on capital, compared with 10,
.5.1, (half-year), 12.1 and 9 p.c. for the
four preceding terms. The div. was kept
at 10 p.c.; the 2\ p.c. bonus sent out at
the close of the previous accounts to com-
memorate Sydney’s sesquieentenary was
not repeated.
For the dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1929 (before the sickness in
the coal trade became acute) a steady
10 p.c. was paid, sweetened with £20,000
of bonus scrip in 1920. Slump brought
the rate down to 5 p.c. in 1931, since
when it has climbed steadily, reaching
10 p.c. again for the June half of 1937.
There is nothing in sight at the moment
to suggest that, the 10 p.c. is likely to be
interfered with.
Finances are snug:—-
, December , June—• —,
1933. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Capital . . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities .. 9,895 19,673 16,511 16,907
Ship property 187,242 99,577 126,444 122,869
Freeholds, etc. 15,279 1,650 5,163 3,963
Plant, stores, etc. 9.287 5 209 8,604 8,587
Book debts . . 13,509 20,591 19,581 16,414
Consols, cash,
etc... .. 120,008 142,700 103,969 112,347
. During the year the Hunter, built in 1907,
was “sold at a satisfactory figure,” and
a 1600-ton cargo steamer, with limited
passenger accommodation, has been
ordered. A net reduction of £3575 in the
book value of ship property, of £l2OO in
premises and of £3167 in book debts are
reflected in a growth of £8378 in Con-
sols, cash, etc. The more or less liquid
surplus was £4815 stronger at £111,854,
equal to 15s. per share. During the year
the board reduced its holding of Aus-
tralian Consols from £90,276 to £6030
and increased its cash balances from
'£13,693 to £106,317, of which £A89,237
was held in London at June 30, appar-
ently to meet commitments on the new
cargo steamer.
Over the last two years the pound
shares have fluctuated between 455. and
41s. on the market. Last week-end the
figure was at 445., at which the return
is 4.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is 31s. lid. in net tangibles.
{“Wild. Cat” continued on page 24.)


sdf
df
fm
walks away with it!
Only the very finest whiskies from Scotland’s most famous
distilleries are good enough for Johnnie Walker. Mellowed
and matured by years in the wood, they are blended with
traditional skill. No wonder Johnnie Walker is the favourite,
and walks away with it!
Born 1820 —Still Going' Strong'
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
/
On your next trip to England , travel
one Way via "The Cape" and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAVILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
; *
V.
v ■
I
It
Nr„Ji§
li^.T.
: *==sac v
m
=?A. --:
%
2*e
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Meib.). —Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by. using the Hounsfield
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine—in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
THE YOUNG COUPLE’S
GREAT RISK
LIFE is good, and the future is full of
promise, but there is one great risk that
every young couple faces. It is that the
husband will die before he has made enough
money to provide for his wife’s care.
This risk can be guarded against through
the A.M.P. at a very small cost.
Matthew Fisk Johnson married early last
year and became a member of the Society,
assuring his life for £5OO, paying an annual
premium of £l3/8/4, a shade over 5/- a
week. He paid only one premium. As the
result of a fall, he died in May last, and
the young widow received the Society’s cheque
for £5OO. This was no compensation, ot
course, for the loss of her husband, but a
mighty help in her trouble.
Another member, a wheat-farmer, took out
a policy for £lOOO in 1924. He looked like
living for 40 years, but he died of pneumonia
last month. He had been paying a premium
of a shade over ten shillings a week.
Altogether he had paid in £386. Bonuses
brought the amount his widow received up
to £l4lO, so that she received the £lOOO
and all the premiums her husband had paid.
Thus do wise men and women cover them-
selves against the great risk.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to tell you
how you can safeguard your wife and family.
If you prefer, we shall send you booklets.
Ask to-day.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A W Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States,
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
After writing off £4804 for deprecia-
tion, development, etc., Sandy Creek
(New Guinea) earned £19,173 (up
£13,484) net for the 12 months ended
April, and div. goes up from 3d. to 6d.
per share. The co. is operating along
tributaries of the Bulolo ; two sluicing
plants are working and boxing is also
carried on at Upper Sandy Creek. Greatly
improved recoveries, bigger throughput
and a slight reduction in unit costs ali
contributed to last term’s better showing.
Results from the beginning:
Year Treated, Yield, Costs, Net / Divs.
April. C.y. C.y. C.y. Profit.* Share. Amt.
1936 f. 21,370 3/9'* £229 Nil Nil
1937.. 116,518 3/5* 1/7.8 5,216 Nil Nil
1938.. 190,500 2/54 1/3.7 5,689 -/3 £7,750
1939.. 206,751 3/9 1/3.2 19,173 -/6 15,500
* After writing off £3328, 1937; £3969, 1938;
£4804, 1939. f Four months.
Since the close of accounts heavy rains
have interfered with working, yields for
April and June averaging only Is. 7|d.
and costs Is., but better is now officially
expected. Including £lOOO invested in
Gold and Power, Ltd., a co. formed last
year to take over the old Upper Watut
leases, liquids at balance day amounted
to £14,341, subject to final div. of £7750,
and the debt to £2136. The co. holds a
big area, but little of it has been thor-
oughly tested, owing to the high cost
involved ; something like at least 12
months’ work appears in sight at Sandy
Creek, however, and four to five years’
at Poverty Creek. The market takes a
cautious view, pricing the 620,000 issued
2s. 6d. shares at Is. 6d. apiece.
* * * *
The stable price of tin at a satisfactory
level has created a marked revival in the
tin area of North Queensland. Unfor-
tunately the Cornishman, one of the
steadiest producers on the Herberton field,
has lost its ore-pipe, which was cut off by
a flat fault at 400 ft., in similar manner to
its neighbor, the Wild Irishman. The
Cornishman is cleaning up 8 p.c. oxide
ore around the 300 ft. level, but reserves
there are not likely to last long. A Cairns
syndicate recently paid £15,000 for a
group at Lappa, including the once-
famous Tommy Burns and the Xmas
Gift. The former produced close on
1500 tons of tin, but a tumbling market
knocked the lower values left at the
400 ft. level. The Xmas Gift has pro-
duced upwards of 300 tons above the
50ft. mark, and there is plenty of scope
for future development. A 10-head bat-
tery is being erected. That old mining
camp of John Moffatt’s, at Irvinebank, is
also in the running.
* * * *
Not satisfied with his efforts on the
outside mines at Charters Towers (N.Q.),
W. H. (Billy) Clark has had a concession
area granted to him by the Mines Depart-
ment on the Main Day Dawn line. This
takes in Wallis’s Day Dawn workings,
which were abandoned early in the cen-
tury at a depth of 750 ft. The 1905
returns show that 681 tons produced
10750 z. gold, but thereafter values
dropped to Bdwt., and this was not con-
sidered good enough in the Towers’s
palmy days. An ore-shoot in the adjoin-
ing D.D. mines produced some 60,0000 z.
at a loz. average. Clark reckons this
may make further west along the inter-
section of the footwall reef. He has now
a fair number of irons in the fire on the
famous old field.
The dumping of the old Oaks field
(N.Q.) by several of the strongest Aus-
tralian gold groups doesn’t deter local
syndicates from having a dig at the hill,
which contains a few million tons that
just decline to make the grade. Cliff
Rutledge once gave it a thorough tryout
under option, and it failed by about |dwt.
The State battery is there, but water
supply is an ever-recurring problem.
The holders of the Mountain King
recently cleaned up 400 tons for
per ton, and have another 200 tons at
grass, hoping for the best. But the Oaks
steadily refuses to go beyond the 3dwt.
mark, otherwise its great mass with that
network of tiny auriferous veinlets would
indubitably make it a follower of the
Big Bell (W.A.).
* * * *
Beechworth Alluvials, which recently
sold its Harrietville (Vic.) property to
Harrietville (Tronoh), Ltd., has turned
down areas in the Nesbitt and Leo River
districts (N.Q.) as being totally unsuited
for dredging. Hopes are that an area
on Meroo Creek, near Mudgee (N.S.W.),
which is now being prospected, will prove
suitable for the sluicing plant of the
Reedy Creek Co. (an offshoot of Beech-
worth), which shut down in January last.
Payment of a div. has been postponed
until prospecting results at Meroo Creek
are known.
❖ * $ ' $
Melbourne-controlled Borneo Options,
which deserted its first love in Dutch
West Borneo, has now leased its
manganese deposits at Kapa Kapa,
Papua, to other Melbourne interests for
seven years, with the right to renewal
for a further seven years. The terms are
(1) that the lessees are to mine and ship
a minimum of 7500 tons of manganese
ore annually ; (2) royalty payable to the
lessor is £2 per ton net on the first
5000 tons, 30s. per ton on the balance up
to an aggregate total of 10,000 tons, and
then 40s. per ton on all ore mined and
shipped in excess of 10,000 tons.
Royalties are payable as ore is shipped
from Port Moresby.
* * * «
De Bernales cos. asked for a Board
of Trade inquiry and have got one.
Ali officers and agents (bankers, solici-
tors, etc.) of a co. whose affairs are
being investigated by the B. of T. are
required to produce to an inspector all
relevant books and documents in their
custody. The inspector may examine on
oath the officers and agents of the co.
in relation to its business. If an officer
or agent refuses to produce a book or
document he runs the risk of being con-
victed for contempt. If on receipt of
the inspector’s report the Board of
Trade considers that any person is
criminally liable for anything he has done
it refers the matter to the Director of
Public Prosecutions. Concerning the
July 12 ban by the London Stock
Exchange committee on dealings in
shares of the De Bernales cos., it is
worth noting that, even if a Board of
Trade inspector acquits a co. of all alle-
gations of unsatisfactory conduct, the
Stock Exchange is under no obligation to
relist banned shares.
* * * *
Ora Banda South (W.A.), first domi-
ciled at Ora Banda and now operating
the Tassie Queen on the Comet line at
Marble Bar, reports that nearly £l5OO
has been paid oft the £5OOO purchase con-
sideration, and that things are going well.
Its cash cupboard, however, is nearly
bare. An earlier report stated that good
returns were being obtained, and that
additional plant was to be installed in
order to lower costs and raise production.
* * * *
In announcing another call of l|d.
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.) states that
since taking an option over the Wiluna
East considerable development has been
done, and the downward continuation of
the shoot proved to a depth of 210 ft.
Something is also said about installation
of an efficient treatment plant. The co.
first announced this acquisition last
March, when it claimed (1) to have got
something right in the heart of the main
Wiluna gold deposits, (2) to have an out-
crop at least 1000 ft. in length, and (3) to
have thousands of tons of ore ready for
extraction. Then a call of was
made.
* * * *
After weakening in Londop, Wilunas
(W.A.) have strengthened again on an
official report that a drive south on a
new shoot at 1200 ft. down in the Happy
Jack section, a mile or so north of the
main workings, exposed ore averaging
s.3dwt. for a length of 150 ft. and over
a width of Bft. A further announcement
that the face of the drive was still in
similar-grade stuff, and that a crosscut
not far away had intersected 16ft. of ore
averaging 4.3dwt., also helped the market.
* * * *
Chairman Marker has again told South
Kalgurli that there will be no further
return of capital at present. Without
turning a financial hair, the co. could
easily hand back 7s. 6d. a share; but the
board believes that for the time being re-
sources should be husbanded. Melbourn-
ites Rubinstein and Beattie went to Lon-
don last year and demanded reorganisa-
tion of the management with a view to
bigger recoveries, increased dividends and
return of capital. They were not suc-
cessful.
* * * *
Blue Bird West has got the option ex-
tended on its perch, which is next to
that of Blue Bird at Norseman (W.A.)-
Unlike.the Blue Bird, it hasn’t yet laid
any golden eggs; but it hopes to.
Adelaide-controlled, it was formerly
known as Bright Hope. Blasted Hope
might have more appropriate.
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian co. has pegged
an additional 400 acres abutting its Star-
light group at Wiluna (W.A.). The co.’s
other holdings, which adjoin Starlight,
are known as Moonlight Wiluna, where
the main workings are situated, and
Horseshoe Wiluna.
* * * *
The London crowd which controls Mt.
Magnet and Youanmi (W.A.) has made
some managerial changes. T. Peart has
been shifted from Magnet to Youanmi,
and I. Hoskin, formerly one of the Big
Bell staff, has taken his place. G. War-
rick, whom Peart succeeds, has retired.
P. Fitzgerald, general manager of You-
anmi and attorney for Mt. Magnet, is off
to London to confer with the boards of
the two cos.
Hi Hi * He
In the latest issue of the “Mining and
Geological Journal,” published by the
Victorian Mines Department, a special
article on the Bendigo field sets out the
operations of each of the active mines
there. Another feature is a simple ex-
planation of the basic principles of the
cyanide process ; the famous grey granites
of the Harcourt-Ravenswood district are
described, and their quarrying and com-
mercial applications are discussed, and so
are the black-coal resources of Victoria
and deep-lead mining methods.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
V.J.R.: No recent figures available, but not
recommended J.F.: (1) None. (2) Depends
on broker concerned; no definite standard laid
down. (3) No. (4) Technical College. (5) Ask
for an interview with any broker, who will
advise you... .P.L.S.: (1) Stocks and Shares,
by Hartley Withers. (2) Should prove satis-
factory holding. (3) No record of any bank
paying 12 p.c. at present. Please furnish name.
. ...M.A.J.: Try Austral Malay Tin, Ltd., 4
Martin-place, Sydney G.S.P.: (1) There are
50,000 f.-p. £2 5 p.c. cum. par. prefs. and
85,000 £2 ords. paid to 355. each. For 1938
the ords. received Is. 9d. and the prefs. 4s. per
share. At the end of March Is. on the prefs.
and on the ords. were sent out. (2) So
far as divs. are concerned, the prefs. are en-
titled to 2s. per share before the ords. get any-
thing, and then a further shilling for every 10? d.
paid to the ords. Cannot say exactly what
position is in event of wind-up. (3) Hold tor
the present. Co. has about 10 years work
ahead... .C.L.T.: Swap certainly, not recom-
mended.


HAMPTON COURT
KING’S CR OSS, S Y D N E Y, N. S. W.
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
•Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
JJj
pa
£3
rr!st
iTI
rn
mi
tn\
m
rrv
m/
*
rn
J
ana
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates: Single Room
with private bath
from 10/6 per
night. Suites from
£l/1/- per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
Is there anything that the small investor
can confidently buy for a rise.”
Correspondent in financial column.
Yeast.
“Shiny materials will be fashionable again
this year.” —Fashion note.
This will make it easier for husbands
to get another year’s wear out of their old
navy serge suits.
•j* *i* *2* *2*
“If you have perfectly-shaped hands you can
draw attention to them.” — Women’s paper.
Unless you're a pickpocket.
►2* -I* 4*
“Grievances of Rail Waitresses.”
—News heading.
Must have to eat the same food as the
customers.
t ♦ ♦ ♦
Japanese don’t want John Bull in the
China shop.
•2* *2* *2*
“The prisoner’s statement that the windows
were closed agreed with the police evidence.”
—Daily paper.
There was no frame up.
•2* *2* , *2* „
“Fresh butter is an excellent cure for lum-
bago.”—Medical note.
Give yourself a pat on the back.
•2* *2* *2*
“Hollywood will spend a million dollars on
a picture and think nothing of it.” —Film blurb.
Nor will anybody else, probably.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
“Pooley Bridge jumped three furlongs fast
and well.” — “Sun.”
He ought to take the Melbourne Cup
in his stride.
•2* *2* *2* *2*
Trial and Error.
“If you have offended your girl friend you
should go about a reconciliation scientifically.”
—Dorothy Dix.
Rot! I tried science with Lena after
breaking an appointment a few weeks
ago, and look what happened.
“You see,” I told her, “according to
Einstein there is no absolute space or
time. They are merely illusory concep-
tions based on our inaccurate mentations,
influenced by an obsolete Newtonian
theory. Hence, eight o’clock last Satur-
day week was in no sense absolute. Nor
was the corner of King and Pitt streets.
So, there being nothing absolute about
our appointment, you can’t possibly
blame” 1
That was when it happened. The
swelling is just beginning to go down.
T.W.N.
There are single men who haven’t a
shirt to their back and married men
who haven’t a back to their shirt.
*2* *2* *2* *2*
“Is there anything more pathetically helpless
than a newly-born baby?” —Nursing note.
How about a politician With a frac-
tured jaw?
•2* 4* *2* *2*
“The stewards complained that the severe
weather kept most passengers in their cabins
and consequently gratuities were few and far
between.” —Shipping column.
In short, the ship tipped but the pas-
sengers didn’t.
•2* *2* *2* 4*
“Former Test captain fined for speeding.”
—News item.
Caught on the drive.
"Hey! Y' forgot y'r knitting!"
“A cream, to take the place of stockings,
has been placed oil the market in the United
States.”—' “World’s News.”
“Uproar in Court. Accused Sing in Dock.”
—“ S.'M. Herald.”
Making a song about having to face
the music, no doubt.
4* &
“It’s foolish to write over your public’s
head.” —‘Literary course.
How about sky-writers?
“Lord Mayor Nock said schemes are sug-
gested by people who prophesy all sorts of good
from them, but he is compelled to refuse to
sanction them.” — “D.T.”
The fascination about modern poetry
is guessing what it is supposed to mean.
•F 4* *2*
“What do editors want?” — Writers’ guide.
Sympathy.
•2* *2* *2*
“American boxer to buy hotel and settle
down here.” —Sporting note.
He’ll be smiling after every round now.
A Game for Saps.
“A workman employed by the State Forestry
Department yearns to write poetry.”— “D.T.”
Though stately gum and lofty pine
May wake in you the spark divine,
Think, friend, the poet’s trade begets
Naught save an editor’s regrets.
Few listen to his tuneful lay ;
The weekly ghost ne’er walks his way —
Verses are penned by mugs like me;
Wise men have jobs in forestry,
LEON.
Solution.
“A constable told a Sydney Court that a
man he arrested in Hyde Park was eating pieces
of newspaper.”
It seems a curious sort of whim.
Perhaps by warlike brag
The paper had offended him,
And so he chewed the rag.
H.M.
The modern girls who cream their legs
Aren’t doing things by halves;
But even though the cream is good,
Skim-milk is best for calves.
ELM.
Enochs come knocking at the door
From morning till the nocturne
black;
Their schemes are fanciful and poor
And Nock’s the man to knock ’em
back.
H.M.
How to Become a Handyman.
A Complete Guide.
XVI.
In no way is a man’s mechanical
ability better tested than in the matter
of radio repairs. When the crooner’s
yawping is interrupted by a whistling
shriek followed by a sound like a platoon
of cats fighting on a galvanised-iron roof
in a dry thunderstorm, the hopeless in-
competent or the lazy man rings the
nearest radio dealer to come and fix it.
The true handyman does it himself.
The process of tracking the trouble
down is one of trial and error, and to
the man to whom the sound of a screw-
driver is as the breath of life nothing
could be more fascinating.
Try first the more easily accessible of
the vital parts. Start off, say, With the
aerial. If it has any kinks, detach it
and put it through the wringer and re-
connect. If it is of bare copper wire the
cold spell may be adversely affecting it;
cover it with adhesive tape. Should it
be of the indoor type that is poked up
in the picture-rail, examine the end of it.
If the silverfish have chewed it out of
shape snip off the end, sealing it with a
piece of chewing gum.
If the aerial is an outdoor one fast-
ened to a tall tree, the chimney or the
nearest telegraph-pole, get up on the roof
with an old mining windlass, if you can
borrow one, and, looping the slack part
around the drum, subject it to a pressure
of approximately to the square
inch. As this is under the standard
breaking-strain, collapse of the aerial will
prove a weakness that should be instantly
remedied.
If the receiver still won’t function, test
the “earth.” This wire connecting with
the set usually has the other end secured
to a water-pipe. A dry water-pipe is no
good. Possibly the Water Board has cut
off the supply from the main owing to
non-payment of rates, and your wife has
forgotten to tell you about it. If this is
so, and your prospects of early reconnec-
tion are remote, burrow under the divid-
ing fence (when it’s dark, of course) and
hook the earthwire to your neighbor’s
pipe. Should, however, your own pipe
be full, disconnect, burnish both pipe and
wire-end with any reputable polish and
retie wire in a neat sailor’s knot.
Should that not cure the trouble, the
fault lies in the set itself. The most likely
cause will be the valves. Pull all these
out and put them in different holes—
perhaps they will make better contact.
This is simple if your set is a modest
three-valver. But if you have gone in
for a flash 12-valve superhet job the
combinations and permutations which it
is possible to get by juggling these around
will test your patience. Do it methodi-
cally, putting down each combination in
a book after numbering the valves and
holes correspondingly. Thus: Valve 1 in
hole 1, valve 2 in hole 7, valve 9 in
hole 2, etc.
Should the only fruits of this exhaus-
tive test be a crop of “raspberries” from
the kids who have missed their favorite
bedtime serial, “The Blood-drinkers of
Bali,” you will at least have proved that
the trouble is confined to the inner works.
Turn the cabinet round so that there
are exposed the myriad wires connect-
ing with the various gadgets. Gather all
these together in one handful, and with
one strong tug disconnect the lot. This
saves fiddling about with each terminal
separately. You can now, as it were,
start off from taws.
Take the 20,000-ohm anode dropping-
resistor first. One cannot exclude the
possibility that long-continued oscillation
has boosted this up to 21,000 ohms with-
out your becoming aware of it. If it
fails to swing with an easy “b-r-r-rumpf”
sound, take a 1-21st off it with a three-
cornered file. It should then be con-
nected with the voltage-divider. These
parts can be recognised by comparison
with illustrations in any trade journal.
Particular care must be exercised when
handling the grid-resistor. Holding it
between the thumb and the little finger,
twirl it past the potentiometer. This
instrument is easily recognisable, as it
gives off an odor like broken glass when
oscillated. Both these parts offset the
shunting effect of the plate-resistance of
the audio valve, and help to decrease the
inverse feedback. The tuning condenser
should be ganged, but only lightly.
Were you carelessly to connect the
cathode tap to a megacycle instead of
through the 25mmfd. midget variable
condenser, you might cause a short circuit
in the R.F. valve plate, which may in
turn lead to a body knock in the coil
circuit. Make all your connections by
dropping a blob of solder accurately on
to the end of the wire where you are
holding it against the corresponding part.
Aim for neatness by making all the blobs
of a uniform shape and size.
When all the parts are connected again
turn on the juice. Should all the valves
momentarily glow and then give a hiss-
ing sort of noise, you will know that a
short circuit somewhere, due to a mis-
calculation, has “blown” all the valves.
If, on the other hand, the set starts to
hum, sniff around until you locate it. If
it is caused through one of the coils or
the transformer melting, or the audio
frequency starting to smoulder, switch it
off while you adjust it. A loud knock-
ing or endless “wah, wah, wahs” should
be viewed suspiciously. If they don’t
stop after you have violently shaken the
set check everything over again.
The probability is that this overhaul,
if carried out faithfully according to
directions, will enable you, when you
turn on the volume knob to its loudest, to
get a garble of indescribable sound. This
Will either be statics, a political speech
coming direct from Warsaw or the an-
nouncer at Maracaibo giving the eager
natives the latest Stock Exchange quota-
tions. The odds will be heavily on statics.
You Will do well to switch the set off
until atmospherics improve.
S.W.K.


tM
m
: Its
i *«
is
mmm
m
wl
Head Office .
Sydney, N.S.W,
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . . £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012, 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
London Office; 18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD
STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.;
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia. And at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
Relaxation, recrea-
tion, wide scenic
vistas and modern
comfort are assured
to travellers who
take the Canadian
Australasian route
to Europe.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF
N.Z., LTD:
(Incorporated in N.Z. ).
247 George Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
NEW ZEALAND
FIJLHONDLULU
Aimmsim
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Broken Hill Prop.
Australia’s great iron and steel indus-
try, which last year was responsible for
adding more than £2,000,000 Australian
to the value of our exports —an increas-
ing quantity of steel is going to Britain —
displays no actual regression as yet in
production or profits. B.H.P.’s New-
castle works during the co.’s term to
May 31 showed only a slight increase in
output compared with the preceding year,
certainly, but Australian Iron and Steel,
the Port Kembla subsidiary, is taking
over an increasing proportion of the
work, and AT. arid S; figures are not
published.
In spite of increased wages and other
production costs, Broken Hill Prop, in its
last term showed net profits £131,053
higher at £1,431,513. That was after
allowing £850,669 (against £709,954) for
depreciation. The net result represented
21.5 p.c. flat on capital as it stood at the
end of the co.’s year, compared with
22.4 p.c. in 1937-38, when the ratio to
average capital was 24.2 p.c. The div.
stays at 12y p.c.
It is especially pleasing to note that
B.H.P. is able to export a considerable
range of its products in competition with
the rest of the world. An efficient steel
industry is a great asset to any country.
B.H.P. is blessed by the high quality
of the manganiferous iron ore it gets
from Iron Knob in S.A., but that forms
only a fractional part in the story of its
success.
Maoriland went, hardly cap in hand,
to London seeking a conversion loan of
£16,000,000 and a new loan of something
like the same figure. An Australian loan
—term 25 years, interest 4 p.c., price £9B
10s. —about this time was 80 p.c. failure.
Last week the Bank of England invited
applications for the Maoriland conver-
sion loan, after the pros and cons of Mr.
Nash’s mission had been thrashed out in
the newspapers and in the City. The term
of the loan is short —six years —the rate
3-f p.c., and the issue price £99. The
issue was not underwritten, but full sub-
scription is assured. M.L. has to ear-
mark £2,000,000 out of exports as a.sink-
ing fund against the loan in 1940, and
£3,500,000 in each of the four following
years. The “Times” commented on the
arrangement thus,:/ —
The British Government is putting its . hand
in its pocket on behalf of New Zealand to such
an extent that it cannot be reproached with
lack of generosity, but the Dominion must
prove her worthiness if future assistance is to
be more easily forthcoming.
Britain has no desire to interfere with the
principles governing the administration of New
Zealand, but the Dominion must recognise that
she cannot again saddle Britain with the burden
of her own extravagances, and must order her
affairs accordingly.
The loan closes on August 5. After that
there is bound to be the question of a
new loan. But this is a matter to be
looked at in a different light from the
conversion, which involved the saving of
Maoriland’s financial face.
“ Don't ’ee touch un, lad. They things d' live ours after they re dead."
An unnamed syndicate has put up a
proposition to Smith’s Newspapers. It
suggests leasing the premises for three
years at £4OOO a year, and at the end
of that period buying the paper outright
for £40,000 cash “or in £1 shares to that
value.” There is also £12,000 of paper
stocks, etc., to be paid for, and the syndi-
cate would have to take over £35,000 of
mortgages. When all other liabilities
have been met by the old Smith’s co.,
however, there isn’t likely to be much
left for pref. shareholders—a good deal
depends on whether the Melbourne
premises can be disposed of. “Smith’s”
at present is losing £250 a week, and the.
“Referee” is a burden also. Shareholders
have given the directors authority to lease
or dispose of the co.’s undertaking.
* * * *
A chartered accountant has been ap-
pointed by the Board of Trade, London,
to inquire into the conduct and affairs
of Great Boulder Proprietary and other
De Bernales cos.
* * * *
The scrip in C.U.B. holding cos. was
very firm again in Melbourne last week.
Carlton lifted to 695. 9d., while there
were dealings in Melbourne Co-op. at
58s. 3d. and in Shamrock at 455. Foster
shares sold at 535. The relative positions
of these cos. were dealt with at length in
B. 21/6/’39.
* * * *
Melbourne Steamship’s final div. has
been lifted to 4} p.c., making a total of
8 p.c. for the year to June 30, which
compares with 7 p.c. in 1937-38. The
co.’s shares have been firming the last
two or three weeks and now stand at
305., returning 5.5 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis.
Wellington Alluvials, the N. S. Wales
gold-dredging subsidiary of 8.H.P., has
had another disappointing year. A div.
is not yet in sight. For the twelv'e months
to April 30, 2,710,000 c.y. (including
936,000 c.y. of barren overburden) was
handled by the dredge for a yield of
12,205 fine oz., sold for £110,077 net.
The average recovery was 2.16 grains
(9.75 d.) per yard of ground handled,
while working costs, totalling £62,217,, ran
to 5.51 d. a yard, leaving £47,860 (4.24 d.
a yard) mine profit. The net result, was
£28,981, after charging £14,656 of depre-
ciation. Close-boring ahead of the dredge
confirmed original bore values, but for
some unascertained reason the dredge’s
average recoveries have been only 72| p.c.
of bore values. Research and experiment
are resulting in some improvement, but
the real trouble hasn’t been fathomed
yet. There have been delays in the co.’s
programme owing to weakness in the
overburden stacker and the bucket band.
Digging has been harder than expected-
in dredging shows it nearly always is
harder than expected—and costs have
been high as a result. The stacking
equipment has been improved, and a new
bucket band has been installed since the
close of accounts, so that costs should
be lower during the current term. The
board aims to wipe out the overdraft
(£86,000) before paying dividends to
shareholders. The 2s. shares were at
3s. lid. last week, and there are 2,500,000
of them issued. At the flotation it was
estimated that 38,000,000 c.y. of 7+d.
ground (gold at £4 Aust.) was proved,
and that another 22,000,000 c.y. of dirt
could be treated profitably.
* * * *
Shareholders in Ravens, Ltd., last
week gave the directors permission to
complete the sale of the Town Hall
(Sydney) branch premises to Edments,
Ltd., the Melbourne-registered chain-
store concern. Price was
not disclosed. Edments is
asking its shareholders for
£52,500 of new 6| p.c.
pref. capital. That will
duplicate the share-register
total, a similar number of
ords. at present represent-
ing the entire capital. A
10 p.c. ord. div. was paid
by the co. last term, and
it has a promising future.
The ords,, cum rights, are
•at 30s. in Melbourne.
* * *
Australian Consolidated
Industries ords. were last
week bought regardless of
any consequences that
might be the outcome of
the Tariff Board’s inquiry.
In Sydney and Melbourne
on Friday 38s. was paid,
which is Is. 3d. higher
than the, previous top quote
for the scrip, and repre-
sented over £7 per old
Australian Glass share.
* * *
Meggitt, Ltd., the big-
gest manufacturer of lin-
seed products in Australia, showed
profits nearly £2500 higher during the
year to May 31. The £48,906 exhibited
represented 13.7 p.c. on ord. capital,
allowing for pref. requirements; the
10 p.c. ord. div. was repeated, and £3OOO
carried to a staff fund. Meggitts afe
interested in the manufacture of lino,
these days, and there is no longer a sur-
plus oil problem ; the industry finds that
the market for linseed meal is the more
fluctuating factor these times. The co. was
carrying light stocks at May 31, and the
financial position was comfortable. At 305.,
turn Is. div. (payable Aug. 24), the ords.
yield nearly 7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Melbourne City Council announced a public
issue of debentures amounting to £350,000, at
par, carrying interest at 4£ p.c. Another
£BO,OOO will be taken up by the council’s sink-
ing fund. The National Bank has under-
written the issue.
Associated Pulp shares were firmer at
20s. 3d, The Tariff Board has completed its
inquiry into the co.’s request for higher duties.
Menzies Hotel declared a div. of 4 p.c.,
payable August 31, as against 3 p.c. in 1937-38.
United Provisions ords. recovered to Bs. A
final div. is due in October.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Frobate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES ?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUK
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
York Minster d< ?? to . Edinburgh, 392
i orK minster. mi j es> m Bix h OUPB>
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
eastern railway.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, PHILP AND CO., LTD
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches
Agents throughout Australia.
sd
(J?i^
m
should be
accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man !
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PROBATE and
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
VVingelio House. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
««r
'\
x: ?
"1
_.M
#sm
i
S:
x> •>
«;
Some men spend a good deal of their time in the public
eye. They can never afford to neglect their personal
appearance. Others have less conspicuous jobs but
it’s just as important for them to create a good
impression. That’s why you’ll find that men who
matter, men who have a position to keep up, take no
chances with their daily shave. They know that a
fresh, well-shaven face will help them to look their
best (and feel their best) through the hardest day.
It’s not really surprising, then, that most of these
men use Gillette the finest, and the most
economical shaving system in the world !
GILLETTE SETS 1/9 TO 45/- • BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
5 FOR 1/6 • STAINLESS GILLETTE BLADES 5 FOR 2/-
The New York sharemarket was very
steady last week. The Dow-Jones indus-
trial share index varied very little above
or below 143 for several days, the firm-
ness evident in the preceding week being
consolidated. London showed decided
strength as the week wore on, industrials
rising to 101.5 on Friday—a lift of about
six points on the low level touched a few
weeks ago. Employment figures in
Britain just now are the best for years,
though the dubious stimulus of rearma-
ment has a lot to do with this. Base
metals were firmer, on the whole, lead
and spelter participating ; tin kept almost
uncannily steady at £229 18s. 9d. spot,
the influence of the Buffer Pool’s opera-
tions being evident. The forward price
was £5 a ton below spot. Copper was
firmer, and there was evidence of opti-
mism as regards most commodity prices,
wheat, perhaps, excepted.
The Australian sharemarkets were
more or less in sympathy with overseas
tone, though a certain amount of re-
straint has been noticeable lately owing
to our own peculiar economic problems.
Although British employment is on the
scale mentioned before, the cost of living
is falling. In Australia last week we
heard that unemployment in N. S. Wales
had shown rather a sharp increase ; at
almost the same time an increase in the
Queensland basic wage was announced.
Those two news items were, unfortu-
nately, only too representative of Austra-
lian economic conditions. The national
income has been falling, unemployment
has been increasing and costs have been
rising. We are slipping off our economic
balance, and nothing we have done so
far is likely to be useful in remedying the
trouble. Export prices during 1938-39
were 16.6 p.c. below the previous year's
average, which was down substantially on
1936-37. The cost of food and groceries
in the Commonwealth has risen 3 p.c.
over the last 12 months. The banks have
stretched their resources very notice-
ably during the past two years in
order to assist essential economic
industries suffering from the effects
of low export prices, and credit is
tightening all round. It would seem that
there are hopes that world trade will re-
cover in time to save Australia facing the
real problem ahead of it —that of coping
with inflating costs. The same complaint
coupled with the same political inertia
has crippled our economic position on
more than one occasion before, so our
present problem isn’t entirely new. But
it has its unusual aspects. One of them is
that we still have relics of the past depres-
sion, in the form of extraordinary taxa-
tion, depreciated currency, etc., still scat-
tered round the landscape, so that it is
hard to say whether we are up against a
really new problem or whether we are
having a return of the old one.
The lift in Australian Consolidated In-
dustries ords., mentioned elsewhere, was
the outstanding feature of the Australian
sharemarket. Announcement of B.H.P.’s
record profit had the effect of keeping
quotations steady, no surprise being dis-
played. British Tobacco ords. kept at
475. 6d., and bank shares remained dull.
Steamship issues were mostly firm. The
strength in Carlton and United issues pre-
ceding announcement of an unchanged
interim div. was peculiar among brewery
stocks. Tooth shares in Sydney have been
stale at 525. 6d. for weeks. Australasian
Paper ords. firmed slightly, selling at 285.,
on Saturday,'when there was turnover
also in Cumberland Paper ords. at the
unchanged rate of 255. 3d. Cement shares
were generally firm. Ord. shares in
, retail concerns were much the same as
they have been for weeks —steady, but
lifeless.
Largely because of rearmament acti-
vity, British employment at June 30 was
the highest since 1929. Since January
unemployment has fallen by 689,000.
William Adams, the Sydney co. that
secured a big contract from the Bun-
nerong powerhouse a couple of years
ago, showed a profit of £33,720 for the
year to April 30, only £432 less than in
the preceding year. The ord. div. is un-
changed at Is. sd. per 14s. share on the
increased capital.
* ❖ $
One of the surprises of last week was
the preliminary announcement of an in-
creased profit for 1938-39 by the Farmers
and Graziers’ Co-op., which has its head-
quarters in Sydney. This is a large wool-
and grain-broker, and in spite of the
deterioration that has taken place in
prices a net profit of around £55,000
will be shown, and the div. is going up
from 5 to 5£ p.c.
* * * *
Following the report of Browne, J., on
the operations of chain stores in N.S.W.,
the scrip in G. J. Coles, the Victorian-
registered co. that has an extensive chain
in N.S.W. as well as other parts of the
Commonwealth, firmed to 745. 6d. last
week. This co. recently declared an in-
creased final ord. div. (18f p.c. alto-
gether, against 17£ p.c.), which prob-
ably was a greater influence in the
stronger market than anything the
Judge had to say, though his remarks
were distinctly favorable to the “variety
chains.” In any case, the ords. in Wool-
worths, the other big Australian variety
chain, weakened slightly following pub-
lication of the report.
* * * *
Mort’s Dock, the Sydney engineering
concern that frequently provides the
sharemarket with palpitations associated
with rumors of a merger with B.H.P.
(so far they have never been more than
rumors), is paying a 6 p.c. div. in respect
of 1938-39. In ’37-38 a 5 p.c. div., plus
1{- p.c. bonus, went out. The co. has
been getting a lot of extra business this
last year or so owing to the fact that
reorganisation work has been going on
at Cockatoo Dock, the other dockyard
in Port Jackson (that used to belong to
the Commonwealth Government). Cocka-
too has had so much defence work to
do that Mort’s Dock has been getting
an unusually large share of the general
docking and engineering business avail-
able. At 15s. last week Mort’s fully-
paid £1 shares returned 8 p.c. on a 6 p.c,
div. basis.
o * *
Tableland Tin shares have an unofficial
market in Sydney at 10s., though little
business has been transacted lately. The
scrip is now called to 16s. ,6d., and the
co. is, going ahead with the construction
of its large new dredge on the Return
Creek (N.Q.) property. The small (re-
constructed) dredge is digging satisfac-
torily, and with tin at its present level
a profit of about £30,000 a year net is
looked for. There has been some con-
troversy as to whether the expenditure
on the smaller dredge wasn’t a mistake,
seeing that it has a limited capacity and
economic possibilities. But in view of
the great number of mistakes made in
Australian mining in the past by erect-
ing plant ahead of the mine, Tableland’s
board seems to deserve praise for its
cautiousness in testing the property with
the smaller dredge first. If, after such
testing, the property had shown itself to
be a dud, shareholders would have been
spared the outlay on a bigger but useless
dredge. As it is, the smaller machine
should do a fair bit towards paying for
the big dredge.
k *
Austral Silk and Cotton, the Mel-
bourne cotton-yarn-spinning concern that
Bradford Cotton (Sydney) proposes tak-
ing over, hasn’t been doing so well in
recent months. Very little profit for
1938-39 will be shown, and a div. is un-
likely. In the preceding term 2\ p.c. was
paid. Austral Silk directors consider
Bradford’s offer to be a fair one.
Jfc * jjt $
Westinghouse Rosebery, Ltd., Sydney,
representing a merger of the Australian
manufacturing and distributing rights
over Westinghouse products with the
Rosebery Engine Works, made a loss
of £28,567 during the term to April 30.
A profit of £9642 was shown in
the preceding term. No ord. div.
'is paid this term, whereas 6 p.c.
went o t in 1937-38. The loss is
attributed by the board to “difficult
conditions in the continued development
of the business.” Apart from Westing-
house and Rosebery products, the co.
turns out Buzacott pumps and engines,
it owns Wormald Bros., Ltd., and it took
over the Palmer Electric Mfg. Co. in
1935, and the radio factory of E. F. Wilks
and Co. in 1936. After previous sales at
165., sellers are ready to accept 13s. 6d.
for the co.’s ords.
* «
Port Jackson Steam, which runs
a cheap ferry service from Manly
to Sydney’s Circular Quay, didn’t do
so well in 1938-39 despite record heat
during the surfing season. Takings
were down, for which the co. blames
competition from Government buses,
privately owned cars and the dis-
traction caused by other forms of amuse-
ment offering to potential surfers. On the
other hand, costs and taxes increased,
with the result that net earnings dropped
from £33,070 to £24,638, barely covering
the 8 p.c. div. (unchanged). Profits have
fallen for the third year in succession.
At 15s. the co.’s 10s. shares yield
5.4 p.c. so long as the 8 p.c. div. is
maintained.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
J. BULL CALLS UP HIS MEN.
[A fair amount of publicity has been given to the
thumping millions J. Bull is spending on armaments;
here, condensed from various sources, are items showing
what is being done in what J.B. has realised —and his
allies, especially France, have insisted —is of equal
importance; that is, the calling up and the training of
all available man-power. The first item —portion of
a notable speech by Lord Halifax —deals with J.B.’s
general preparedness: the gist of it was given in cables;
it is here given unaltered in Lord Halifax’s own words,
both because of its own content and as a broad basis
to the other, more particularised, items.]
(From a speech by Lord Halifax .)
I believe that at no time since the war has there
been such national unity on the main essentials of our
foreign policy, and that with this spirit of unity goes
a deep and widespread determination to make that
policy effective. But I believe, too, that among all
classes of our people who, in virtue of their common
citizenship, are being called upon to defend their
country, and the causes for which it stands, there is
an increasing desire to look beyond the immediate
present, and to see before them some goal for which
they would willingly sacrifice their leisure and, if
need be, their lives.
We are already asking for great sacrifices from
all ages and classes in the call for national service.
In one way and another, every man and woman has
a part to play, and I know is prepared to do so. The
immense effort that the country is making in equip-
ping itself for defence at sea, in the air and on land
is without parallel in peace time.
We have an unchallengeable Navy. Our Air
Force, still undergoing an expansion which has out-
stripped all expectations of a few months ago, has
now nothing to fear from any other. I
have little doubt that its personnel, in
spirit and in skill, is superior to all others.
Our Army, once derided, but which sur-
vived to prove its worth so that it made
a boast of that derision, is, no doubt, small
in comparison with that of some other
countries. But, as happened once before,
we are creating here also a powerful
weapon for the defence of our own
liberty and that of other peoples. With
every week that passes, that effort gains
momentum, and on every side of life,
political, administrative, industrial, we
have abundant evidence of how firmly
this national effort is driven and sup-
ported by the people’s will.
Behind all our military effort stands
the British people, more united than ever
before, and at their service their wealth
and industrial resources. These again
are the object of contemptuous reference,
but they have been earned by the labor,
skill and courage of our people. None
of this formidable array of strength will
be called into play except in defence
against aggression. No blow will be[
struck, no shot fired. Of the truth of that, everyone in
this country is convinced. I believe myself that most
people in other countries really accept it, in spite of the
propaganda that dins into their ears the contrary. What
is also now fully and universally accepted in this coun-
try, but what may not even yet be as well understood
elsewhere, is that, in the event of further aggression,
we are resolved to use at once the whole of our
strength in fulfilment of our pledges to resist it.
These great changes in our national life could
not indeed be brought about were they not backed by
deep conviction, which is immensely strengthened by
what we hear and read almost daily from other parts
of the world. We are often told that, though once we
were a great nation, our ways are now old-fashioned,
,and that our democracy has no life in it. We read
the mischievous misrepresentations of our actions and
of our motives which some people in countries hold-
ing a different international philosophy from our own
think fit to make. We read them with resentment,
knowing that they are false and knowing that those
who make them know it too. These things do not
pass unnoticed here, nor, I may say, do provocative
insults offered to our fellow-countrymen further afield.
I can say at once that Great Britain is not prepared
to yield either to calumnies or force.
It may afford some satisfaction to those who
have pronounced our nation to be decadent to learn
that they themselves have found the cure —and one
most effective. Every insult that is offered to our
people, every rude challenge that is made to what we
value and are determined to defend, only unites us,
increases our determination and strengthens our
loyalty to those others who share our feelings and
aspirations.
“A Vast Citizen Army”
(Condensed from an article in the ‘‘Economist”)
All the recent speeches of Cabinet Ministers have
underlined the unprecedented peace-time size to which
the personnel of the fighting forces has already swollen.
It is a vast citizen army that has been made, in A.R.P.
and fire-fighting no less than in striking power on
land and sea and in the air; it has been done at a
time when activity in factory and workshop has been
rising to a new high pitch.
It is enough to say that 1,170,000 men are now
enlisted in the regular, reserve and auxiliary ranks of
the Army, Navy and Air Force, and 1,402,000 men
and 658,000 women in the civilian defence services, to
realise something of the magnitude of the effort that
has already been made. A total of three and a quarter
million citizens are at work on national defence for
all or part of their time. Their distribution and re-
spective roles are shown in the following two tables —
which can claim no final authority since recruits are
still flowing in daily and certain of the items have
necessarily been estimated.
The Armed Forces.
Army. Navy. Air Force. Total.
Regulars 204,000 133,000 118,000 455,000
Reserve and Auxiliaries .. 584,000 27,500 104,000 715,000
Total 788,000 160,500 222,000 1,170,000
Women 176,500 * 2,000
Civilian Defence.
Services. Men. Women. Total.
A.R.P 893,000 541,000 1,434,000
Auxiliary Fire 171,000 6,000 177,000
Women’s Voluntarv Services .. 91,000 91,000
Nurses .. ..' .. .. 11,000 11,000
Midwives .. .. .. .. 1,000 1,000
Land Army .. 8,000 8,000
Regular Fire .. .. .. 20,000 20,000
Regular Police .. .. .. 68,000 68,000
Auxiliary Police .. .. .. 232,000 232,000
Merchant Navy Reserve .. 10,000 10,000
Auxiliary Coastguard .. .. 1,000 1,000
National Wireless Register .. 2,000 2,000
General Reserve .. • • 5,000 5,000
Total (May 31, 1939) .. .. 1,402,000 658,000 2,060,000
It is an impressive picture. The regular strength
of the three armed forces of the Crown (excluding
the Army in India and Burma) stands not far short
of half a million; and their combined reserve and
auxiliary strength is nearing three-quarters of a million
—of whom about a tenth are to be called up this year
for an extended period under the new Reserve and
Auxiliary Forces Act.
Behind the 204,000 Regulars there are 139,000
Regular Reserves, 35,000 Supplementary Reserves and
410,000 Territorials (making 584,000 reserves and
auxiliaries who would be trained full-time soldiers in
—"Sunday Pictorial,” London.
“No, Adolf, not until you’ve learnt this lesson.”
war); besides them, there are the 220,000 militiamen
who are to be called up in batches of 20,000 for six
months’ training in the course of the next 12 months.
The total is a million men for the Army, and it has
lately grown with striking speed ; 170,000 new Terri-
torials have been recruited in only two and a half
months. The potential Army has been almost doubled
this year.
Indeed, it is the rapid uprising of the readiness to
serve that is chiefly noticeable in all branches of
defence work. On January 25 just on a million and
a quarter men and Women had volunteered for civilian
defence ; by May 31, four months later, the total had
passed two millions.
How the Men Enrolled
(Condensed from an article in the ‘‘National Review.”)
On June 3 the British conscript army enrolled.
In this country we have no machinery for calling men
for military service; the conscripts were therefore
invited to call themselves up by reporting at their near-
est Labor Exchanges. This they did with the utmost
cheerfulness, and in great numbers:
England .. .. 182,924
Scotland .. .. 24,490
Wales .. 12,550
Total .. .. 219,964
A very small number of men separated themselves
from their fellows by saying that they preferred not
to fight. These were distributed as follows:
England .. .. 2,951
Scotland .'. 374
Wales .. 450
Total .. 3,775
Reports from the Exchanges showed that the
vvilling young men came from their offices and their
games, that they answered the questions asked and
that they paid no attention to the Various “Peace”
organisations which distributed literature at the doors
of some of the Exchanges. The general note was the
men’s eagerness to do their bit.
Ever since the Government decided on compul-
sory military service the enemies of this country have
been busy. Hence expensive processions with “Peace”
banners. All the anti-British British, all the foreigners
Who hate England, all their agents, conscious and un-
conscious, walked in or paid for them. But the public
has its eyes open at last —it has been hoodwinked by
such stuff long enough. The literature offered in the
streets, the street meetings, had no effect; the men and
women outside the Exchanges on June 3 wasted their
time and other people’s money. Smiling, the young
men brushed them all aside. They were going to
serve and the shirkers could stay outside.
One instance of a last-minute effort to stop young
men from doing their duty was an article in the
magazine “Youth,” the organ of the Youth Group of
the League of Nations Union. In May this journal
tried to throw a spanner into the works in an article
called “Conscription Concerns You,” devoted to be-
littling the national effort. This article is particularly
mischievous, speaking of “the thin end of the wedge,”
industrial conscription, etc. It throws contempt upon
the conscripts:
Hitler has treated the calling up of 200,000 young
conscripts with the contempt that it deserves It may
not be within our power to oppose conscription through
the machinery of the League of Nations Union, so
another body has been formed to do this. The
National Youth Campaign has once again come for-
ward to present Youth’s view The referendum
which the National Youth Campaign is organising on
conscription will be taken up by young people.
Will it? We rather think not. But if any men
who consider their good names and preserve a sense
of patriotism are still members of the League of
Nations Union, had they better not reconsider their
position? Here is a society which, when its Royal
Charter prevents it from organising an anti-national
movement, gets some other body to take over the
running! Who is responsible for watching the activi-
ties of the societies which operate from behind the
cover of a Royal Charter?
Employment Problems Ahead
(i Condensed from an article in the ‘‘Spectator.”)
In the current year over £600,000,000 is to be
spent on arms. On June 12 the total number of
insured persons in employment was 12,810,000, the
highest number that has ever been reached in this
country, and the increase of 750,000 achieved since
January means that employment has risen at a higher
rate than ever before. The increase is
almost wholly due to expenditure on
arms ; for the seasonal rise to be expected
normally in the six months since January
has been counteracted by a “lack of con-
fidence” in normal business enterprise.
These figures are welcome as evi-
dence of intense industrial activity ; and
the fall in unemployment means that
there is so much less waste of human
lives and human labor. Yet this increase
in activity is also a warning of problems
that have to be faced.
Three months ago Mr. Keynes cal-
culated that arms expenditure, and its
indirect results, would create additional
employment of 750,000-1,000,000, and
predicted that during the year the prob-
lem of unemployment would be abolished
and give way to the problem of labor
scarcity. The latest figures more than
confirm his prediction. In six months
750,000 additional workers have been ab-
sorbed, and this process is likely to be
continued in the coming months, though
at a lower rate, and for so long as there
is no lessening in the tempo of rearma-
ment. In some industries, particularly engineering, a
labor shortage is already apparent and will become
more acute in the near future.
In the near future there is likely to be a short-
age of labor and capital, and without severe control
and intervention by the Government competition for
their use will set up the vicious spiral of increased
wages and increased costs. This is the most imme-
diate problem ; but in the long run rearmament will
create a difficulty of an even more serious nature. As
the Director of the International Labor Office has
emphasised in his latest report, the armaments race
can only create a problem of unemployment even more
serious than that which for the time being it has solved.
Its dimensions can be briefly indicated. The number
of workers in this country now directly or indirectly
dependent on rearmament activity is calculated at
5,000,000 ; for how many of these will there be work
when the blessed goal of disarmament is reached?
Thus the country is faced with two problems.
The first is to adjust an insufficient supply of capital
and labor to an excessive demand, the second will be
to adjust an excessive supply to an insufficient demand.
Are there means of solving the one without intensify-
ing the other, or does preparation for defence mean
that, with or Without war, we must finally meet with
a crisis which will weaken and perhaps destroy the
very basis of society? It may be added that, though
our arms are to defend peace, the sense that the future
holds insoluble problems is itself a powerful tempta-
tion to war. How much of Nazi recklessness in foreign
policy is due to the terrible difficulties they have to
face at home? A “short and successful war” has
always been the easiest remedy for the problems of
peace. _
The one method open to the Government is to
ensure that the transitions to be made, from “reces-
sion” to the arms boom and from the arms boom to
disarmament, take place under regulation and control.
Such regulation will diminish the difficulties both of
the present and the future: and unless that future is
kept in view, even while immediate problems press
for solution, war will be averted only at the cost of
creating a peace as menacing and dangerous as that
which we enjoy now.
Russia: Saviour of Civilisation!
fin the article here condensed from the “Contempo-
rary Review” George Glasgow lightly traces out the
history of Anglo-Russian relations since the war.]
We have reached the odd and perplexing pass
where Russia, in the opinion of a large body of the
British and French people, becomes a mam safeguard
of European civilisation.
The British Government, centre of an old,
practised and still powerful Empire, goes on its bended


knees to the Soviet Government, the self-appointed
destroyer of empires and of the capitalist system on
which empires are built, and the self-vaunted leader
of materialist atheism ; in such a posture the British
Government is snubbed and, as it were, kicked aside
by the Soviet Government; continues nevertheless to
crawl and to entreat, accepts more and more of the
rigid conditions imposed; to the end that the unholy
alliance of France, Soviet Russia and Great Britain
be duly constituted.
Within four years we have seen the great British
people drive out—some will maintain that there was
no alternative course open to them—the great Italian
people from our friendship, and substitute a people
whose Governmental practice during a quarter of a
century has been based upon the most brutal of all
the tyrannies.
Russia was previously an ally of Britain and
France in the precisely same policy of encircling
Germany which again engages our ingenuity: even
though we protest that such is not our object, now
or then. After a quarter of a century we have reverted
to type: but the type has had to triumph over vast
differences in the circumstances.
One result of the Busso-Franco-British military
victory over Germany was the bolshevisation of Russia
and attempted bolshevisation through the Third (Com-
munist) International of Europe and of the world.
Horrified by so unintentional a fruit of British victory,
the British people found themselves bitterly antagon-
ised to Russia and her works. They promptly fought
on one side of a civil war in Russia against the other.
The purpose now was to defeat the spectre we were
ourselves partly responsible for raising.
For more than 20 years after the Bolshevik usurpa-
tion of power in 1917 Britain and Russia never saw
eye to eye. After the war Mr. Lloyd George sue-
ceeded in bringing the two countries
within speaking distance of -each other,
but not in making them speak to each
other in any profitable sense. It was a
measure of his initial difficulty that when,
in,the spring of 1919, he started on the
adventure, he thought it tactful to pro-
pose that the Allies should meet the Rus-
sians on the island of Prinkipo, an out-
landish rendezvous which, as no doubt
he imagined, might temper the wind to
the shorn lambs huddled in Paris.
Certainly in 1919 no Russian official
could have set foot in Paris or in Lon-
don. Neither of those centres of civili-
sation could then have stomached so
unhallowed an intrusion. Even the
Prinkipo compromise was howled out of
court. Undismayed, the Prime Minister
in 1920 brought the Bolsheviks to
London, and negotiated a Trade Agree-
ment with them. In 1922 Mr. Lloyd
George took the Russians to Genoa,
where they showed how little they appre-
ciated the compliment by concluding with
Dr. Rathenau the Rapallo Treaty, which
was the worst service that Russia could
have performed for Mr. Lloyd George
at that time. It contributed to his down-
fall at the end of that year.
Throughout 1923 Anglo-Russian re
lations were mainly concerned with
mutual recrimination. A communication
in 1926 from-Lord Curzon ended with a
10-days ultimatum.
The post-war course of Anglo-Rus-
sian relations never ran smoothly. Even
when the charming Mr. Rakovsky was
appointed Russian diplomatic represen-
tative in London, the storms did not
cease. He was a man whom no sense of
office could restrain. The formal open-
ing of the 1924 Anglo-Russian Confer-
ence was delayed several hours because
he, the chief Russian delegate, could not
be found. He could not be found be-
cause he was engaged in slithering about
on the various devices provided for that
purpose by the Amusement Park of the
Wembley Exhibition. Just after he was
appointed to his post in London he de-
livered a speech at Kharkov (July, 1923)
in which he gleefully prophesied the col-
lapse of the British Empire and exulted
in the part he might play therein, to the
greater glory of the world revolution, from his posi-
tion of advantage in London.
. When he was captured from the Amusement
Park, Mr. Rakovsky made a speech in which he
declared magnificently that the conference now begun
would embrace in its scope “the fundamental prob-
lems of the political life of the whole world,” and in
particular he advocated in one breath the integral
revision of the Treaties of Versailles, Trianon, St.
Germain, Neuilly and Lausanne, as well as of the
League of Nations.
The conference, of course, did not settle the
fundamental problems of the whole world, nor any
problem whatsoever. It broke down. The real stum-
bling block was loans. Mr. Rakovsky thought it excel-
lent and proper that Russia, having repudiated her
existing debts, should start borrowing again with a
clean sheet, as it were, and firmly demanded new
loans. When the experts began adding up the figures
of the Russian debt, they soon reached the heights
congenial to them, thus:
(1) The pre-war debt £26,000,000
(2) The war debt 650,000,000
(3) The municipal debt 14,000,000
(4) Private debts (estimated) .. .. 350,000,000
Total £1,040,000,000
A treaty of sorts was negotiated, but was of
little interest and of less consequence. Russia, as
jester-in-chief to the world, continued to flourish.
The general strike of 1926 inevitably led to a violent
campaign of abuse against Russia for her attempt to
subsidise the Trades Union Council. After more abuse
and counter-abuse relations with Russia were broken
off in 1927.
After that climax there followed long years of
virtual “non-speaks” between Great Britain and Russia.
Suddenly, as a result of Nazi Germany’s resurgence
as a military threat to British imperialist predomin-
ance, a still more curious chapter in Anglo-Russian re-
lations was begun. After more than 20 years of mutual
abuse British opinion now turned to Russia.
The British people, in their fear of the particular
gangsters who dominate Germany, have taken to their
bosom the particular gangsters who were first in the
field and who have surpassed in barbarity anything
that has been experienced in any part of stricken post-
war Europe.
Dr. Schacht Visits India.
(From cm article in London “Times” Trade and
Engineering supplement.)
The visit of Dr. Schacht, former president of the
Reichsbank, and his seven weeks’ tour of India
aroused much discussion as to Germany’s intentions.
This discussion came to a head when a speech by
Dr. Schacht at Madras coincided with the appearance
of a number of articles in the German press announc-
ing the start of an intensive trade drive in the Indian
market.
Dr. Schacht’s speech was in the nature of a com-
plete contradiction of his previous protestations during
more than six weeks. Previously he had denied any
economic purpose of his visit, declaring that he was
here as a “simple tourist.” At Madras, however, he
came out into the open and stated that he had been
studying the mind of the Indian people to see whether
there was scope for co-operation between India and
Germany; also that India needed to develop her in-
dus tries and Germany was ready to assist her techni-
cally and by the sale /of capital goods, such as
machinery.
This revelation of German intentions received a
very hostile ‘ press” in India. Newspapers of all per-
suasions, British- and Indian-owned, moderate and ex-
tremist, attacked Dr. Schacht for his duplicity and
avowed India s intention not to be made an unwitting
accomplice in German political plans. Mr. Satya-
murthi, the Congress politician, who had spoken at the
same function as Dr. Schacht and seemed to sym-
pathise with his objectives, was violently assailed.
Public men of all parties denounced Nazi economic
aims and told Dr. Schacht that he had outstayed his
welcome.
Public sentiment was echoed by the “Times of
India,” which wrote editorially: “So long as Ger-
many is organised on a war basis, so long is" it obvious
that the purchase of bounty-fed German products
amounts to subsidising aggression. If Germany wishes
to stimulate her exports legitimately, she must first con-
vert her economy from a war basis to a peace basis and
show a genuine desire for international co-operation.”
Taken all round, there is small chance of the pro-
jected German trade drive succeeding. For while in
some cases it is possible that political sentiment will
be subordinated to the purchase of German machinery
at cheap rates, generally speaking German exports to
India are falling off steadily as the present international
tension raises doubts whether German manufacturers
can fulfil orders or maintain service after sales.
An Englishman Protests.
the letter here condensed from Manchester
Guardian,” J. C. Hardwick has a word on moral
lectures from U.S.A. —expressing feelings perhaps not
entirely confined to himself.]
A number of people in this country are becoming
weary of the continuous flow of moral lectures from
across the Atlantic. If Europe is in a bad way, a
good share of the responsibility must lie with the
State which was primarily responsible for the idea
of the League of Nations but which shirked all respon-
sibility for putting the idea into practice. That was
left to “selfish” States like Britain and France.
Americans are annoyed with us over Palestine,
but why did they not accept the mandate for Pales-
tine, which they might have had for the asking?
Again, they are annoyed with us over Spain. But
why did they not export arms to Government Spain?
No one would have dared to stop their ships. They
are annoyed with us for not going to war with Japan,
but how is it that Japan has received large supplies
of war material from the United States, especially
aeroplane engines, to enable her to crush China?
With regard to Abyssinia, Austria and Czechoslovakia,
why should it have been Britain’s task rather than that
of the United States to fight Italy and Germany on their
behalf? It may be answered that the interests of the
United States were not so vitally at stake, but mCral
lecturers ought not to talk about vital interests but
only about principles. If it was morally indefensible
for Britain to “betray” those nations, it was equally
indefensible for the United States to do so. Any
‘ commitments” we had undertaken were by reason
of our support of the League of Nations —“commit-
ments” which the Americans shirked altogether.
The real fact is, of course, that Americans have
never forgiven the European democracies for
Dictatorships
Autocracies
Democracies
There are no pure democracies, of course, and
no pure dictatorships. If the comparatively
democratic countries are marked white on this
map, it is not because any absolute virtue is
claimed for them. If the countries under dic-
tatorship are marked black, it is not because
they are uniformly retrogressive. Between the
democracies and the dictatorships, both politi-
cally and geographically, is a group of States
in which autocracy has so far stopped short of
totalitarianism. The Latvians hail Karlis
-Map and comment from “Time and Tide.”
Ulmanis as their leader. The Lithuanians have
made the head of their army their Premier. The
Poles and Hungarians are under their army
officers, who are drawn from the land-owning
aristocracy. In Rumania King Carol is trying
to immunise his people against the Nazi disease
by giving them totalitarianism in homoeopathic
doses. In Bulgaria and in Greece the military
rule —and in that latter country the military
rule has gone so far that we hesitate whether
to color it black.
Madame!
As Madame strikes the “Daily Mail”:—
Mme. Tabouis, leader of the Rumor School
of Journalism! Just now this school is a little
exhausted. Fact has lately been so much stranger
than rumor!
The Tabouis School address a slightly .in-
credulous world in the manner of Assop’s shep-
herd boy, who cried “Wolf” too often.
But Tabouis is full of information. Would
you know what Hitler said to Goring, what
passed at a British Cabinet meeting, the exact
nature of Germany’s military plans? Apply to
Madame. s
She once said that “French people are the
most undisciplined and talkative in the world.”
Maybe she was speaking for herself?
comment on Madame, recorded in
a Time and Tide” report of her appearance
and speech, of course—at a London literary
dinner:—
In the history books of the future, she said,
there will be a picture of .Adolf Hitler on the
day of his triumphal speech at Prague in March,
.1939, and underneath it will be written “This was
the beginning of his downfall. He was Fiihrer
of the German People from 1933-1940.”
Madame Tabouis stuck to her prophecy, undis-
turbed by Humbert Wolfe’s remark that he
himself had got five doubles the other day at
the dog races, only he did it with a pin.


defaulting over the war debts. May it not be that it
is the betrayal of the debt rather than the betrayal
of democracy which rankles? Is not this the source
of all the indignation and moral attitudinising? The
“idealist” financial bigwigs of the United States would
willingly preach us into a war, out of which they
would profit, in the present on a “cash and carry ’
basis and in the future by having a financially bank-
rupt world dependent for good upon Wall-street.
One further point—a delicate one. National
Socialist Germany is not the only State with a racial
minority that is discriminated against. I admit that
the Southern negro is not a Jew any more than the
Arab is. But he is a human being, and not even the
Jew is more than that.
Tragedy in China.
[These pages go to the printer with the Anglo-
Japanese talks over Tientsin still proceeding in Tokio,
Britain having admitted to “recognising the actual
situation in China,” and that “the Japanese forces have
special requirements for the purpose of safeguarding
their own security and maintaining order in the regions
they control” —in other words, that it is war, and that
it is the business of a neutral to be neutral. Mean-
while, a glimpse into that war is afforded by the items
here condensed. Though by no means extreme examples,
they represent realities of war, and so, while shocking
to anyone of ordinary human feelings, might serve to
steady the war-urgers, if these were at all capable of
facing up to like realities as the logical consequence
of their warmongering.]
The Wounded
(From a London “Times” article by a correspondent
in China.)
Within the last two months roads covering an
area the size of England and Wales have been entirely
destroyed. There are thousands of men working to
make rebuilding impossible. Every bridge and culvert
has been torn down or blown up. Trenches 10ft. deep
and 20ft. wide have been dug at intervals of 100 yards.
The most distressing result is the additional suf-
fering caused to the wounded. Because the swift
advance of the enemy has exposed the wounded to
the great danger of being captured, no attempt has
been made to do curative work until they are in a
place of safety, in this case at least 300 miles from the
battlefield.
Before, with the motor transport that was avail-
able, this distance could be covered with luck in two
or three days, and operative medical units and base
hospitals were established in places where it was hoped
they could carry on their work without fear. Under
the new roadless conditions, from five to fifteen days
must elapse before the wounded can get proper
attention.
Casualty List
(Fron an article by London “Times" Tokio corre-
spondent.)
Imperial General Headquarters in Tokio recently
published a detailed statement of the results of 23
months’ warfare, and it is substantially accurate to-
day. Chinese dead left on the battlefields between
July 7, 1937, and May 29, 1939, numbered 936,345.
The Japanese armies lost in the same period 59,988
killed.
Total Chinese casualties, including wounded, are
estimated at 2,300,000. No corresponding return of
Japanese casualties has been published, but, computed
at the same ratio as Imperial Headquarters employed
for the Chinese losses, they amount to 150,000. The
figure is very much smaller than estimates made in
China, the basis of which is unknown.
The disparity of losses seems explained by the
difference in fighting power and destructive equipment.
The Chinese never had the material of the Japanese,
and their training and leadership were inferior. The
loss by death is about three-quarters per cent, of the
total population of Japan; if the figures are correct
the Chinese losses against the Japanese are 15 to one.
Against Japan’s losses in life, Imperial Head-
quarters publishes a list of gains in territory. The
occupied area of China covers approximately two
and a half times the size of the Japanese empire. The
Japanese Navy claims that it has destroyed 1561
Chinese ’planes with a loss of only 116 Japanese air-
craft.
“Appalling Figures”
C From a London “Daily Express” article by O. D.
Gallagher. The war, of course, is not directly respon-
sible for all the figures here given.)
In China children and women and men continued
(and continue) to die nine every 30 secohds—lB a
minute —26,000 a day—lo,ooo,ooo a year—2o,ooo,ooo
since July 7, 1937. Simply—the China War is two
years old.
Do those figures stagger you? I wonder. They
are too big to fit easily into our Western reckonings
of such things. Can you visualise half the popula-
tion of Britain dying in two years?
Fifty million Chinese are homeless. Can you pic-
ture that? . . . The entire population of the British
Isles destitute, driven heaven knows where by war,
flood, disease and famine.
The greatest war had to come to China, country
with 4000 years of unbroken history. The country
where until quite recently they despised the soldier and
honored the scholar.
These appalling figures are only approximate. They
cannot be precise, never will be, because there is no
machinery to tick off each miserable Chinese coolie,
his wife and child as they are struck down. Before
the War it might have been possible to check the death-
rate around big towns from statistics from the coffin-
makers. To-day they cannot make ehough coffins.
Missionaries, relief organisations, army head-
quarters, Government offices, hospitals have been ques-
tioned about their own areas and the whole lot totted
up to give these tough estimates. The ones I quote
are the lowest. One authority says twenty-five, not
twenty, million have died, and that 150,000,000, not
50,000,000, are destitute. But only one thing is sure-
human beings have never died in war as they are dying
in China.
To many hundreds of thousands of Japanese back
home in their tight islands it has meant a small box of
White wood and a photograph. The ashes of a son,
brother, husband or father who died in China. Trans-
ports carry all these little boxes, about a foot square,
back home. When they are landed there is always a
big ceremony, and thousands of people turn out to
pray. Then they are readdressed and go by local tram
or bus or truck to some village where a small group of
— “Kladderadatsch,” Berlin.
GERMAN VIEW OF IT.
JOHN BULL: “This damn’ sun disturbs all my
encirclement.”
silent people receive the one that belongs to them
and carry it away.
For the ordinary Chinese the war has meant
degradation. Do you think you know anything about
poverty? You don’t until you have been to China.
An unlucky peasant could not have less than he
normally has and live. Which is one reason why the
Chinese death roll is somewhere around 20,000,000 in
two years. Even a dirty rag has a market price there.
I doubt if any people in the world eat less than Chinese
peasants.
If the war lasts another year, competent observers
there forecast the greatest famine of all time. Japan
has nominally occupied about 300,000 square miles
of the country and assumed authority over 142,000,000
people. Some 50,000,000 have fled to other parts,
mostly down to the south-west near Tibet, into coun-
try scarcely known to white men. The Chinese tills
and cultivates his plot of land mainly to feed his own
family. The 50,000,000 refugees have not been catered
for. They have no money to buy anything. Great
tracts of land that once yielded food have been devas-
tated by fire. China’s “scorched earth” policy. Firing
everything before retreating so as to leave nothing
but a pile of ashes for her invaders.
Observers say it will be a few months before this
reacts on the Chinese themselves. But when it does,
in the winter
And big floods are coming, too. Dykes and bar-
rages were broken by both sides in. the course of the
war. The winter floods of the great Yellow and
Yangtze Rivers will be uncontrollable
Also there is disease.
Danzig To-day.
[The flare-up in the Orient has been exercising all
the scare talents of daily newspaper headline writers,
to the almost total eclipse of Danzig; but, in the words
of an A.B.C. foreign affairs commentator, “der broblem
remaiiiss.” The items here condensed from acknow-
ledged sources give views on the situation as it is
to-day.]
(From a “Times” letter by Arnold Wilson, M.P.)
I have been in Danzig three times in the last four
years; I have watched the slow but natural process
of “reversion to type” which is now complete. It is
once more what it was in 1919, a microcosm of that
part of Prussia to which it belongs geographically and
racially.
The will to revert to Germany is, for whatever
reason, as strong as it was in the Saarland before the
plebiscite.
Herr. Hitler stated on April 28 that he had
proposed to Poland that Danzig should be incorpo-
rated within the Reich as a Free State.
Here is the basis of a settlement, if Germany
could satisfy Poland that the natural desire for a
corridor across Pomorze is not the precursor of a
demand for Pomorze and Posen, the loss of which
would reduce Poland to the unenviable status of
Slovakia.
The question of Danzig can be settled only
between Germany and Poland in direct negotiation,
which recent pacts have made more difficult. Given
a detente of a few weeks this may well happen, if
Germany will renew her once-made offer to guarantee
Poland’s present frontiers, subject to agreement on
Danzig and the German corridor. Events in Europe
might then take a new turn, for despite appearances
very cool calculation plays a larger part than heated
language in German policy.
(From a “Times" letter by Harold Callender .)
Is German annexation of Danzig in any sense
urgent? No Nazi pretends that it is. Is it a vital
issue? No Nazi contends it. Is not the German claim
to Danzig as a German city destroyed or at least
impaired by the seizure by Germany of two whole
provinces which contain 15 times as many Czechs as
there are Germans in Danzig? There are Nazis who
frankly admit that it is. Would not Danzig suffer eco-
nomically from annexation to the Reich? Nazis in
Danzig and Danzig businessmen agree that it would.
Do the people of Danzig desire to incur even a
remote risk of war in order to join the Reich? They
emphatically do not. (I recently asked a good many
of them that question.) They are already completely
governed by the Third Reich, through the Nazi party
(the Gauleiter of Danzig is a Bavarian).
What then is this tremendous “problem” which
excites all Europe? This was the' answer given
recently by a distinguished Nazi: “Danzig is neither
urgent nor vital; it is purely a question of power
politics.” It is, in other words, a question of dominion
over others. There is no misunderstanding. It is per-
fectly clear both to Nazis and to Poles that Germany
seeks dominion over Poland similar to that which she
has gained over the Czechs. In the case of the
Corridor she would not be recovering territory which
was historically German, but repeating an eighteenth-
century conquest of territory historically Polish. If
the Nazi Reich disdains negotiation, it is because it
obviously could not attain any such aims through
negotiation.
South African Compulsory Service.
(From an article by a South African correspondent in
London “Times")
All able-bodied South Africans can be called
upon, without any legislative preliminary, for mili-
tary service. The pother over conscription in Great
Britain has been regarded with mild astonishment by
South Africans, who have always been accustomed to
the idea of compulsory national service. Every South
African European boy must, on reaching the age of
17, register for military training, and every European
citizen between 17 and 60 can be called upon to serve
in defence of his country in any part of South Africa,
whether within or outside the Union.
This liability to render national service is part and
parcel of South African national life. Nobody thinks
of it as conscription, but it carries the same compul-
sion. The practice, significantly enough, was inherited
from the freedom-loving Republics of the Transvaal
and the Free State, whose citizens, from 16 to 60,
could at any time be called on by proclamation to
serve the State. The law sai<J 16 to 60; but boys of
14 and greybeards of 70 also counted it a duty to
shoulder arms for their country.
While every European male is liable to undergo
a course of peace training, not all who register on
reaching military age are posted to the Active Citizen
Forces. A quota of recruits is required annually for
each of the seven commands into which the Union
defence system is divided for administrative purposes,
and there are always more than enough volunteers to
keep the various citizen regiments at full strength.
But the young men not required for Active Citizen
Force training are not lightly permitted to slip through
the net. They are posted to Defence Rifle Associa-
tions, and must fire annually a prescribed course of
musketry. The rifle associations are popular and
largely sporting in character, but include some of the
best fighting material in the Union. They are the
nucleus of the voluntary “burger” (citizen) commandos
of the rural areas, famed for their mobility, know-
ledge of the country and marksmanship.
The burger commandos have a proud and ac-
knowledged place in South Africa’s defence scheme.
They can be mobilised almost within 24 hours, and,
lightly equipped, after the old Republican mobilisation
style, with “horse, rifle and mouth provision for three
days,” they can move and strike rapidly if need be.
Men trained in the citizen forces and burger com-
mandos form the citizen force reserve, but South
Africa also thinks in terms of a national reserve which
comprises all those citizens who, not being members
of any section of the forces, are liable to render ser-
vice in time of war. When the National Reserve
Register was opened, the Union’s Prime Minister and
Deputy Prime Minister, both veteran generals of the
Anglo-Boer War of 1899-1902, gave the country a
lead by being among the first to register.
No, Mr. Eden!
Cables, recently full of agitation to get
various ex-Ministers—including Mr. Eden—
back into the British Cabinet, curiously enough
did not include these comments from the “Daily
Express”:—
Should Mr. Eden be given a seat in the
Cabinet ?
No, no, a thousand times no.
There is something to be said for the men
who warned us of the German danger, but
nothing for the man who created the Italian
menace.
What made the Rome-Berlin Axis ? Mr.
Eden's policy.
The policy of sanctions ended Italy’s friend-
ship with this country, and made a temporary
separation between Britain and France. When
that cleavage took place Hitler marched into
the demilitarised zone. Due to Mr. Eden’s
policy.
When Mussolini was engaged with Abys-
sinia, Hitler annexed Austria. Mr. Eden’s
policy was responsible for that misfortune. It
could never have taken place if Italy had been
in a position to protect Austria.
Then Hitler bound the monarchy of Italy
to his chariot. Thai was the fault of Mr.
Eden's policy, which destroyed Britain’s age-
long friendship with Italy.
Then Prague was captured.
No, Mr. Eden, we don’t want you back
again.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
There was a nasty accident in the
Apprentices’ Novice Handicap at Ken-
sington (Sydney) on Wednesday. It was
a ten-furlongs race, and rounding the
first turn Sign On ran out, interfering
with Silmond, who interfered with Red
Hugh. A little further on, Sydney, the
leader, slowed down; the field, still un-
settled, bunched; Zulu Maid struck a
horse in front of her and fell, bringing
down Lasting, Silence and Exning. Of
ihe four jockeys only O’Connor was
knocked about much. He was taken to
hospital for a while. The other three,
Fell, Darke and N. Watterson, “escaped
with a shaking,” as the stewards put it,
but were not allowed to ride again that
afternoon. From the stand it looked as
though all four were lucky to escape with
their lives.
Sydney won the race easily from
Geradgery -and Sign On. Owned and
trained by Frank McGrath, he was ridden
by a little-known youngster named
McCann ; that notwithstanding, he was
favorite at twos. Now five years old, he
is by Heroic out of Fair Rosaleen, a
mare that did the veteran trainer good
service on the turf.
Reception’s Ascot form must have
been all wrong. The Marconigram chest-
nut had a very easy win in a division of
the Flying Handicap. He was ridden by
McCarten, who has shown detractors
lately that he can win on favorites. Re-
ception was favorite, at twos, with Royal
Ensign, who was second, though a bad
one. Search, a 6-to-4 favorite for the
second division, was runner-up to Casi-
casado, who, thought to be unready, was
allowed to go out at twelves. Casicasado
is a result of the mating of El Cacique
and Wedding Eve, a good little mare a
few years ago.
* * * *
At Moorefield on Saturday 12,000
people crammed paddock and Leger. The
N.S.W. jockeys’ premiership, not the
class of horse engaged, was the magnet;
after a contest marked by unusual
bustling for mounts, the honors went to
Maurice McCarten, with 88 wins.
McCarten and Lappin were level, with
87 wins, before the last race ; McCarten
was on the winner, Reception ; Lappin
couldn’t get a ride. McMenamin was
third with 85y wins. Colonel Bruxner
handed McCarten a £5O gold cup. The
Moorefield directors also gave a prize of
£lOO to Mead, the local trainer.
McMenamin had four mounts for two
seconds and a third. McCarten and
Lappin rode two winners apiece. One of
Lappin’s was Light Dragoon, by The
Night Patrol-Bareena, who beat seven
opponents pointless in the Rockdale Mile.
Grey Derby was favorite at threes, Light
Dragoon being at fours. A hot pace set
by Morning Gift had the field strung out
for five furlongs, but the mare had had
enough commencing the last furlong, and
Light Dragoon shot away. He beat
Kooba by two lengths, Morning Gift
being three-quarters of a length behind
F. W. Hughes’s horse. Grey Derby com-
menced smartly, but dropped back at the
half-mile and finished last. Many of his
supporters noisily asked the stewards to
take action, and they did. They found
that the roan horse had got on Kooba’s
heels and then refused to take hold of
the bit.
The race that made Lappin square
with McCarten was the Moorefield Han-
dicap. He was legged up on The Jilt,
who is trained on the course, but the
mare eased in the betting from sixes to
tens.. “Can’t stay the distance,” was the
verdict of punters, but her light weight
and solid racing condition, combined
with Lappin’s vigorous methods, enabled
her to win comfortably from Tickle and
Lithgow. Blinky Bill essayed to lead all
the way. He could not get a big enough
break. Lithgow ran past him going to
the three furlongs, but had no hope with
The Jilt when she put in her claim at the
home turn. McCarten was substituted
for the obliging Bartle on Kai Tere, but
Kai Tere would not gallop for him and
beat only four home.
Three wins in four starts is the Sydney
record of Gundagai-owned and -trained
Reception. He has been fortunate in
striking very weak fields. The withdrawal
of Brazandt, Salamyne, Politesse, Rex
and Mrs. Caudle in the Flying Welter
robbed the race of interest, other than
McCarten’s struggle with Lappin, who
saw the race from the stand, and “I’ll
take 6 to 4” was the cry —somewhat sub-
dued—of the Ring. McCarten rode the
favorite hard out of the barrier and never
let up. As a result, Reception scored by
three lengths from a 20-to-l chance,
Reremoa, who finished wide out. Beau
Cheval, who needed the run, was third,
H lengths away.
McCarten’s other winner was Radical
(5 to 2 on) in the Juvenile Handicap ;
but had Padua been a little more seasoned
he would have beaten Radical. The pair
raced together lengths clear of the field.
At the home turn Padua was under pun-
ishment. He looked well beaten in the
final furlong, but raised another effort
when Radical moved away to the middle
of the track, and Radical, flat out, beat
him by a head. Agrippa was third, and
a poor third ; still it was his best effort
for a long time. Harinesta went well
while her condition lasted.
Gold Deposit (7 to 1), a stablemate of
Blinky Bill, struggled on gamely in the
first division of the Sans Souci Trial and
just beat the unlucky Bestop. Sologram,
one of the last away, ran third after being
second-last at the half-mile. The second
division went to Mrs. Dolly Clayton’s
Mahmal, by Rivoli-Real Pearl. Mahmal
got a lucky run on the rails at the home
turn, where Mercedes carried the favor-
ite, Galtheon, almost into the Leger.
Mahmal, who started at 7 to 2, beat
Galtheon by half a neck, with Mercedes
half a length back. Galtheon is a Pan-
theon gelding, and not a bad sort.
A betting plunge was successful when
Fugitive, starting at 9 to 4, won the
Brush Hurdle. He was backed from
fours., Mag Mort looked to be “home and
dry” when he streaked away with a big
lead at the three furlongs, but he tired,
and the well-trained Fugitive defeated
him by three lengths.
* * * *
Billy Elliot, who rode Phar Lap in
the Agua Caliente Handicap, would have
topped the winning jockeys’ list in Mel-
bourne for the second year in succession
but for being disabled by a track acci-
dent seven weeks ago. Very soon now
Elliot will be able to get about on
crutches, but the right leg was broken
in two places, and it is doubtful whether
he will be able to ride at the spring
meetings.
Roy Cooper was a spectator at the Ascot
(Vic.) races on Wednesday. He said he
was ready to resume riding when offered
a worth-while mount. Cooper had a bad
smash at the Kyneton Cup meeting in
March.
Risks taken by flat-race jockeys would
appear to be as great as those that con-
front their crosscountry brethren. Billy
Duncan, when at the top of the tree as
a lightweight, had two bad falls, and
the second obliged him to retire.
Whereas Sydney jockeys had an ex-
citing tussle for premiership, in Mel-
bourne the result was beyond doubt be-
fore the last metropolitan meeting of
the season began. Harold Badger (48£
“On the contrary , Miss Monk, Mr. Hippo and I are ideal room-mates.
I cant wear his clothes and he cant wear mine.”
wins) was 6| in advance of Arthur Dew-
hurst, his nearest rival.
The winning trainers’ list in Melbourne
was headed by W. Burke, with 28 firsts,
18| seconds and 18 thirds, as against
20 firsts by F. W. Hoysted, 16 by F.
Musgrave and 15£ by H. Freedman.
Among the owners Burke also was on
top in point of wins (14). However,
these were worth only about £5500. The
Ajax syndicate collected exactly £lO,OOO.
For racing purposes the metropolitan
area of Melbourne is restricted to a
radius of 20 miles of the G.P.O. It ex-
cludes many courses that would be
termed “metropolitan” by the A.J.C.
This accounts for McCarten’s total being
so much greater than that of Badger.
Notwithstanding his victory there over
fences at the previous week-end, Last
End was allowed to go out at 25 to 1
for the A. V. Hiskens Steeple at Moonee
Valley. Race was worth £750 (inclusive
of trophy) to the winner, and people be-
hind the Adelaide horse made a fine
killing.
Higher quality of his rivals accounted
for Last End being so weak in the
market. Giant Killer, hero of the Grand
National, headed qubtes at threes, with
Mustella and Black Hook at 11 to 2 and
Deckard half a point longer.
After a stern tussle Last End scored
by a length from Giant Killer, with
Deckard half a length farther off.
Stewards dismissed a protest for inter-
ference coming to the last fence. It
seemed rather frivolous. Last End won
on his merits.
What value the form may have on
the forthcoming Australian Steeple is
problematical. Six of the 13 runners
failed to finish, among them being Black
Hook, Prime Seal, Brightello and Fire-
wood.
Firewood, crashing at the second fence,
brought down Black Hook and caused
Mustella to lose 20 lengths. The feat of
Mustella in finishing only two lengths be-
hind the place-getters was highly im-
pressive. This Page selected him to win,
and without doubt he ought to have
done so.
“Jerry” Moloney, of Warrnambool,
which was the home of jumpers in the
days of Tom Corrigan, has had exas-
perating luck. Mustella fell at Fleming-
ton in June and contracted a chill
through careering round the course.
Eased in work, he had to be scratched
for the Grand National, but landed a
minor steeplechase on the opening day of
the V.R.C. meeting. Moloney had him
in good fettle at Moonee Valley, and
the Lanius gelding ought to be fitter still
for the Australian Steeple.
Alec Fullarton was completely out of
luck at the Valley. Methuen, whom he
trains for E. O. Kirby, broke down in
the Aberfeldie Hurdle, for which he
started a hot favorite. On top of that
came a spill olf Black Hook in the A.
V. Hiskens Steeple.
Whernside (sevens) led all the way
over the battens. He belongs to A. G.
Silk, a banana merchant, and is trained
by Jim Pengilly, onetime foreman to
C. T. Godby and later in charge of A.
T. Creswick’s team at the Allendale
Stock Farm.
Each division of the juvenile handi-
cap ended in a boil-over, Rendezvous
taking the first at 20 to 1 and Aranui
the second at twelves. Getting a lucky
run on the rails, Rendezvous beat Lou
Robertson’s filly, Prairie Weed, by half
a head. In his race Aranui had half a
length to spare from Cairnsmore.
Only first favorites to score in seven
events were Rivette (7 to 4) in the Glen
Orla Handicap and Hilton (7 to 2) in
the Derrimut Handicap. Rivette is
coming into Caulfield Cup request.
Hilton also may shine in the spring.
Birdplay (threes) proved a false
favorite in the Sunset Welter. Bridge
Law, owned by P. G. Hay, the Richmond
brewer, squeezed home by half a head
from On Time, a 20-to-l shot. There was
fair support for the winner at sevens.
* * * *
Probably the last has been seen on the
turf of Black Mac (Beau Fils-Faluga).
Having developed shoulder trouble, he
has been returned by H. Leek to the
owner, P. Einsiedel. Ridden by the late
Ray Wilson, Black Mac won several high-
class events, including the V.A.T.C.
Memsie Stakes, beating Young Idea.
At that period he was held on
lease by E. McNaughton.
* * * *
King’s Head’s stud career was brief.
Lashing out on L. A. F. N.S.W.
property, Te Koona, he broke a hind leg
and had to be shot. By Bullhead-Fern
Tree, King’s Head was bred at Te Koona,
and his racing career was long and pro-
fitable. As a young horse he was rather
unlucky, running second after second,
notably in the 1935 Epsom—to Syna-
gogue. Success came when he matured,
and he won the Villiers, the ’3B Epsom
and 11 other races, earning £8366 in
prize-money for Haley. He was a fine-
looking horse and was expected to do
well as a sire.
# * * *
Exit Grey Derby from Epsom calcu-
lations. The roan horse has an attractive
weight, but last in the Moorefield Mile
lets him out. His previous form was
rather good, but he doesn’t seem able to
stand up to racing.
* * # *
George Price, who trains for E. J.
Watt, the A.J.C. committeeman, tops last
season’s list of N.S.W. trainers with 29
winners and £10,509 in prize-money. Mr.
Watt was first among N.S.W. owners.
He is the only sportsman left in the game
who races on a princely scale, and he
deserves to make it pay if he doesn’t —
and they say he doesn’t. He has 30
nominations for the big spring handicaps.
* * * *
After all, W. J. Smith, of A.C.1., didn’t
nominate for the vacancy on the A.J.C.
committee. Hugh Main did, the other
candidates being Dr. Utz and H. S.
Thompson. Hugh Main’s election is anti-
cipated. He was a Light Horseman,
M.L.A. for Temora and Minister of
Agriculture.
o Continued on page 32.)
FOR ROSEHILL.
Flying Handicap: Rodborough ;
next, Bonny Loch.
August Handicap: Buzzal; next,
Sydney.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap: Red Eagle; next, Kooba or
Rathlin.
Parramatta Mile: Morning Gift;
next, Kooba or Rathlin.
FOR CAULFIELD.
Australian Hurdle: Cheery Jack ;
next, Green Cape.
Balaclava Stakes: Maikai; next,
Diaphane.
Moondah Plate: Manrico ; next,
Hilton.
Mornington Welter: Footmark;
next, Carpentier.


SAVE MONEY
■ ITS
gH THRIFTY
INSTALL
HpM NEW g|
SSf
lU
J754^/r
CHAMPION
£/•//>? FUEL ECONOMY
Worn plugs waste fuel. Install
new Champions. They ensure
fuller combustion of the fuel.
Less carbon. More power and a
smoother-running engine. Fuel
lasts longer and you soon are
repaid the cost of the spark
plugs ... and more! Champions
actually save you money.
m
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
FOR BETTER SPIRITS
DRINK DANIEL
CRAWFORD'S
FINEST OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
d
s
FREE ! !
A SAMPLE OF
RE-NU
LIQUID
NU-METAL
Call, Write.
Just deposit through plug
holes; reconditions any engine while-U-drive.
Saves’ rebore, ends piston slap, oil, petrol
waste; restores compression, new power, top-
sneed ’zip etc. Guaranteed for 10,000 miles.
Harmless finest engine. TRIAL TUBE. 6/6;
or we send 0.0. D. or instal anywhere. Anyone
can use Nu-Metal, Advice, literature —free.
RE-NU, LTD., Op. Richmond Stn. —J 4797 (est.
1032). ’ Agents required; 70 other lines.
Free samples.
Under the Whip
Cheery Jack is a first acceptor for both
the Australian Hurdle and Australian
Steeple. He may have a shot at the
double. Ante-post bookmakers in Mel-
bourne are taking no risks with him in
the second “leg.”
The only horse from N.S.W. to land
the Australian Hurdle and Steeple in the
same year was Les Paddington iii 1923.
He had 10.9 in the Hurdle and 11.4 in
the Steeple. Imposts allotted Cheery Jack
are 10.7 and 10.13 respectively. He
could be penalised 71b. in the Steeple.
* * * *
Mount Gambier, a jumper from South
Aus., did Ascot (Vic.) bookmakers a good
turn on Wednesday by leading all the
way in the second division of the Ailes-
bury Trial Handicap. Starting at twelves,
he paid £4 17s. 6d. for ss. on the tote.
Last winter Mount Gambier gave a
poor display in the V.R.C. Maiden
Hurdle. Only recently he could finish no
nearer than third in the Jumpers’ Flat at
Ballarat. The Denacre gelding is engaged
over fences at Caulfield next Saturday.
Since his horses were transferred to the
stable of H. Wolters at Mentone, the
M.L. sportsman G. J. Barton has had a
welcome turn of fortune. Wolters won a
treble for him at Geelong on July 12 and
a double at Ascot on Wednesday last.
. • • • • *
Ascot winners for Barton were Cor-
tina in a division of the Ailesbury Trial
and Silver Bond in the Somerset Welter.
Each of these prads put in a fine finish-
ing run. Cortina (Limond-Curtain) is
beginning to justify his close relationship
to Veilmond. As a yearling he cost 1000
guineas.
Aladdin Lass fell at Ascot (Vic.) and
had to be destroyed. She belonged to
H. Dukes. The Gilt Edge mare was
travelling well when the accident oc-
curred, just after entering the straight.
• . . • * •
Dukes has hopes of Pamelus racing
again. The best Melbourne performance
of Pamelus was when he defeated Gold
Rod in the C. M. Lloyd Stakes. He also
won the William Reid Stakes and the
Quality Handicap at Moonee Valley, and
the Windsor Handicap and Oakleigh
Plate at Caulfield. Up to a mile Pamelus
was a very fine galloper.
* * * *
Country racing is flourishing in Vic-
toria. At 49 country meetings held
during the 1938-39 season, tote receipts
amounted to just on £94,000 —the best
figures for the country since the tote
was introduced. Metropolitan returns are
down a bit compared with 1937-38, when
£2,664,591 10s. was taken by the
machines, but it is expected that charities,
which in Victoria get the tote money
in N.S.W. is paid into the Treasury,
will have divided £191,000.
“Sturt”: Port Adelaide Racing Club
encourages trainers With a £75 prize each
y ear f or t fi e best tally of Winning or
pi ace d horses—on a 5-3-1 basis-—in flat
races a t its Cheltenham course. Reid
and B u fi er s fi are it for the past season
w fifi 32 points each, though NotthWay
was leading till the final afternoon. Brett
gets the £25 for trainer of most Winning
jumpers<
,
M Q and Rafferty
Osborne Makes Good
j t seems age s since Australia had a
first-class lightweight, but Bert Osborne,
yi c t o ria, looks the “makings.” Op-
ed t 0 \Vally Hally at West Melbourne,
he shoWed that he cou ld both give and
straight lefts and left hooks
” d now and then
came y to | igh , w j t h stiff rights to the
“Sorry!”
face and body. At infighting he was de-
cidedly superior.
The Victorian took some punishment,
for the Californian is no slouch; but
after the sixth round Hally was in mani-
fest trouble, and in the eighth the ref-
eree applied the closure. Hally had hurt
his hand —he had used it with some
effect in the seventh —but if both mem-
bers had been serviceable he would have
been licked, all the same.
This was the second meeting of the
pair. At Brisbane on July 7 the Ameri-
can was given the decision at the end of
twelve hot rounds. Osborne was so in-
censed that he pitched into the referee.
He had the crowd’s sympathy, and since
Hally should have been improved by
acclimatisation in the meantime the Bris-
bane verdict was at least doubtful.
La Verne Improves
Danny la Verne (9st. IRW showed
considerable improvement in his return
scrap with Frank Farrington (9st. 31b.)
at Leichhardt Stadium. In their previous
encounter Farrington took a points de-
cision, the Australian giving as good a
display as he’d done to that date. Danny,
in that and his other Arena scraps, struck
present scribe as no more than an earnest
bustler, who had probably left his best
fighting days behind him.
Then Danny journeyed to Newcastle,
and there beat Mickey Miller con-
clusively in what was reported to have
been a good fight, in which Danny was
said to have improved out of sight. The
truth probably is that Mickey has slipped
out of all reckoning; for, though Danny
gave an improved performance in easily
beating Farrington last week, he did
nothing to warrant changing the earlier
opinion of him.
It was a good, busy fight, With just
enough temper to impart some fire to it.
The first round was a clinker. They
came out mutually intent upon 1m-
mediate massacre, and went to it at once,
punching together, mixing it in a solid,
willing mill. In the first few clashes it
was evident that Danny had the better
direction ; he was not hitting hard, but
they were nice, true punches. If he is
nothing more, he’s a tradesman of the
ring. He has been here described as a
robot and an automaton, for his cease-
less, busy, jerky, mechanical action; but a
ribald voice in the bleachers put it better,
dubbing him a jitterbug. It doesn’t in
his case carry any imputation of scare:
he’s as game as he’s hard; but he does
jitter, like a marionette. And he keeps
on battling.
The way to beat him would be to keep
on beating him to the lead; but this
Farrington very rarely did. Frank pre-
fers the fight brought to him, as most
of the present crop of Australian scrap-
pers do, and that’s right into the hands of
a tough, bustling customer like Danny.
While Frank was fresh, he mixed it fairly
well. At the end of the first round-
in which they were both roused, as were
the onlookers, to a pretty wild pitch—
Frank vfras cautioned for using his head.
He missed with it; but the attempt no
doubt robbed him of about the only
round he really won.
After that savage bit of battling, the
second round looked tame ; but there
were hard punches in it all the same,
Danny always placing his the more ac-
curately. Frank was fighting more of a
rough than a good scrap. Thinking
would have been a better occupation for
his head more than once ; also, from
holding it pinned therej and us i n g
to jefk Danny violently t 0 him . This
doming, coupled with Frank’s penchant
for adopt j ng t h e stance of William Tell’s
statde and lett } ng Danny keep on making
the fight, did the scrap a good deal of
damage>
So m o St ] y j t became a matter of Danny
bustling at him, forcing him to a corner,
hitting away with a clockwork action,
w hile Frank, instantly the chance
occurred, would pin the left glove, and
W ade into the side with the other hand
un til ref. Pearson pulled them apart,
With these tactics in operation, the
further it went the further Danny forged
a head. The sixth was the last of the
good rounds. It was full of willing
battle; but after that it was no race,
Frank fought only in patches, despite
vociferous encouragement, and Danny
ran out the easiest of winners,
- 5
« , p. _„i_
Al Walkers Comeback
Tipping the beam at list. 5 •>
Walker engaged Charlie Kerr (tm.
heavier) in the main prelim, at Leich-
hardt. Al, who had had the stiff luck
to smash his right hand just when he
looked like the find of years, had been
out of the ring since losing a 10-rounder
on points to Darkie Abbott. He put
Darkie on the floor with his right early
in the piece, but after that the previously
damaged hand was useless. The little
finger was broken and the knuckle next
door smashed in.
Very evidently, the right fist is now
itself again. Also, he has meanwhile
learned to use his left. In fact, he began
against Charlie as if the left was his
natural fighting weapon. He fought the
first round with it till just on the bell;
then he leapt in and unloosed the right.
It took Charlie on the side of the jaw,
and down he went as the bell rang out.
He was out to the wide world ; but they
sallied across the ring and brought him
back, massaged his throat and gave him
a whiff of brain-clearer. Asked how he
felt after that, he said “Rotten,” and,
game as they make ’em, got up with the
bell and went into it again.
A right, not so well placed, sent him
down for “six.” He got up and weathered
some more, smothering up. A left hook
sat him down on the bottom rope, he
came up off it, and a right dropped him.
He got through the round, and was to
do even better. Fighting very gamely,
he made a splendid showing in the third,
without, however, doing any damage to


TB
H
MADE
IN
EFFIELD
BUY A COMPLETE NEW RADIO
SET THIS YEAR
When You Can Instal in Your Present Cabinet
A WORLD FAMOUS BRAND
CHASSIS, VALVES AND SPEAKER
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS:
® Seven-valve Dual-wave Superheterodyne.
• Class R Amplification.
• Automatic Volume Control.
• Pick-up for Gramophone.
• Etched Edgelit Glass giving all Station
Callsigns.
SAVE NEARLY £2O
SEND COUPON FOR DETAILS.
Fully Guaranteed for 12 Months.
-v-
FOR BATTERY OPERATION ONLY.
George Brown & Co. Pty.,Ltd
Electrical and Industrial Engineer,
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS: “BROWNLOCK,” SYDNEY.
COUPON.
Please post me details of Seven-valve Chassis, Valves and
Speaker.
NAME
ADDRESS
Al. The next round saw A 1 write finis
to Charlie. Fighting in splendid style, Al
quickly had him in trouble. The right
hand sent him crashing to the canvas.
He got up again, took an inside right to
the point and a left hook, and crumpled.
Auckland has buried Billy Murphy, the
greatest boxer that Maoriland ever pro-
duced. Though an eight-stoner, he
fought heavyweights in his native country
—one of his early opponents was the
half-Maori Laing, who boxed Slavin and
afterwards beat Joe Goddard. Coming to
Sydney, in the ’eighties, Murphy took
them on at all weights, and his one con-
queror was “Young Mitchell,” the Cali-
fornian welterweight, afterwards an
alderman of San Francisco. On his Aus-
tralian record and “Mitchell’s” recom-
mendation he got a match in 1890 with
Ike Weir, “the Belfast Spider,” and
stopped Weir in the fourteenth round.
That made him featherweight champion
of the world. He came back to Aus-
tralia with a title and a gold belt, the
gift of Fox, of the New York “Police
Gazette,” but in Sydney was twice beaten
by “Griffo,” who never worried about
championships or belts. Jim Barron also
defeated him, but Barron —now ailing in
Sydney—was fully a stone and a half
heavier. Murphy returned to the U.S.A.,
but never got another match for a title,
though in America and Australia he kept
going till he was past 40 —he was 77 at
the end. His brothers, Jimmy and Tim,
were also fine boxers. Jimmy became
lightweight champion of South Africa,
and Tim, for a time, was middleweight
and then heavyweight champion of Aus-
tralia. They, too, boxed in the U.S.A.,
but were not so successful there as Billy.
Footbrawl
Melbourne footballers rested from
V.F.L. premiership matches on Saturday,
but were by no means idle: the State
team had a go at South Australia at Mel-
bourne C.G., Carlton went to Sydney to
tackle N. S. Wales, Richmond and Col-
lingwood journeyed to Hobart to show
the Apple Islanders how the Australian
game should be played, and Ballarat and
Bendigo both saw boys from the Big
City in action.
The Croweaters began well. They
were faster for a time than their Vic-
torian opponents, and at the end of the
second quarter it was level pegging. After
that the S.A. forwards became rattled
and kicks went astray. Victoria kept
driving the ball down the centre and
kicking goals. In the last quarter the visi-
tors went to pieces, and at the final bell
they were 71 points behind —27.18 to
15.19. Their style of ’ball is pretty, but
not rugged enough for the Victorians
and the Westralians.
In Adelaide a “second” S.A. team and
Broken Hill had an interesting match.
Some very fine footballers have come
from the Barrier. But S.A. won: 19.14
to 16.17.
* * * *
Lack of grounds handy to the city is
against the national game in Sydney, but
the enthusiasts who keep it going always
get a fair crowd at the Cricket Ground.
There were 14,000 present when Carlton
met N.S.W. The Welshmen were beaten
but not disgraced. For three quarters
they helped to make things interesting,
though Carlton could have improved on
its final score (19.19 to 14.9). After-
wards, the visitors said N.S.W. form was
improving. But tourists from Melbourne
have been saying that every year or so for
half a century.
Canberra v. N.S.W. as a preliminary
didn’t have the same polish, but was
closer. Strength won —N.S.W. by 10.13
to 10.8.
* * * *
Many Sydney people think the best
Australian Rugby is to be seen in G.P.S.
games. St. Joseph’s v. King’s always
draws a crowd, and on Saturday there
were 8000 to cheer “Shpre” v. “Joeys.”
“Shore” opened with a penalty goal, and
had a bit the better of things till “Joeys’ ”
backs found their feet and three tries
came quickly—9-3 at half-time. A field
goal took “Shore” to within two points,
then another try and a goal to St.
Joseph’s made it 14-7. Shore then came
with a try (14-10), and was still attacking
at the finish.
* * * *
Tackling was the main factor in St.
Joseph’s success; apart from the winger,
Bruce Ryan, the college hasn’t any out-
standing personalities as in other years
The “Shore” forwards are as nicely-
trained a lot as could be seen anywhere.
* * * *
In the first-grade Union competition
Northern Suburbs very nearly slipped
on Saturday, Drummoyne running it
to a point. Gordon walloped Parra-
matta 15 -nil. North had to rely
on spoiling tactics, and scored only
one try against Drummoyne’s two;
Cornforth gave it the victory with a
fine field goal—l 2-11. Gordon has the
vigor of its forwards to thank again;
they never let “Parra.” settle down.
Randwick is third, one point behind
the leaders. It’s a somewhat disorgan-
ised Randwick. Towers tries hard to
impart polish to the back line, and the
forwards work honestly, but, although
East was accounted for 14-8 (four tries
to two), the smoothness characteristic of
'Wick methods has been missing since
the tourists left for Blighty. West, com-
ing at the right time and now just below
Randwick, is likely to be in the semi-
finals, at least. The Westerners ended a
run of Drummoyne successes a couple of
weeks ago, and on Saturday they
trounced St. George—2 B-8. And Uni.
may yet make the semi-finals. The
Students found Manly a little trouble-
some the first half, but walked away
during the second spell—27-15 (four tries
to two).
* * * *
Queensland completed the avenging of
its crushing Sydney defeats by again wal-
loping N.S.W. in the Rugby League game
at Brisbane ; this time it was 23-13. De-
spite rain-soaked ground and a heavy
ball, a fair pace was maintained. Whether
it had heads down or up the
Maroons’ pack was always superior. The
hooker, Little, again assured flying starts
for his back division, of whom Reardon
was the outstanding member. The Ma-
Staters were weakened by the absence
through injuries of skipper Prigg, the
hard-rucking Porter and Johnson. Kirk,
deputising in the citadel, was no match
for O’Connor, the Bananalander outkick-
ing him in the duels.
In the mid-week game against Ipswich
N.S.W. overcame the handicap of a mar-
gin of a dozen penalties and some wild
passing to win 22-18.
Playing at Newcastle, Australia
clinched the rubber by beating Palestine
in the fourth Soccer match, 4 goals to 1.
The home halves made their opponents
look like third-raters. Quill, who did his
usual stout job in the centre, brought
down the house when he landed a snap
goal from a hook shot over his own
head.
Goodyear - , the N.S.W. State Soccer
League premiers, has had its colors low-
ered only twice this season. Granville
had the honor on both occasions. On
Saturday the tyremakers slammed in a
brace of goals during the first 10 minutes.
Coming back full of fire, Granville made
a ding-dong game of it, to win 3-2. By
the same margin St. George beat Cess-
nock in a match in which vigor shaded
skill. Wallsend retained second place
in the competition by downing Glades-
ville 3-1 ; Leichhardt, with George Smith
in fine form, beat Woonona-Bulli 4-3.
Miscellaneous
The West Indians managed to make a
draw of their second match with Eng-
land: West Indians, 133 and four for
43 ; England, 164 and 128. Hammond
declared with seven wickets down in the
first innings and six in the second. Bowes
took six for 33 and one for 13. He
turned 31 during the match and cele-
brated his birthday by bagging 5 for 14.
* * * *
“Veteran”: Sutcliffe has passed his
50,000 runs in first-class cricket, and
joins Hobbs (61,221), Woolley (58,969),
Hendren (57,621), Mead (55,060) and
Grace (54,896) in a select circle. Ham-
mond, with 43,639 to the end of the last
season, should be the next to enter it.
* * * *
Bobby Locke is no wonder in open
competitions, but in match play for good
money he is in a class of his own. His
latest victim is Burton, winner of the
British open, whom he beat 10 and 9.
The slaughter took place on a Cheshire
course, and there was a side wager of
£250. Locke is now after Cotton.
* * * *
Walter Pate, the U.S.A.’s non-playing
Davis Cup skipper, must be in the throes
of a man-sized headache. At the Sea-
bright (N.J.) tournament he watched
Riggs and Cooke, winner and runner-up
respectively at Wimbledon, beaten set-
less by near-unknowns. “IBitsy” Grant,
w ; ho was dropped from last year’s team,
may force his way in. Little Grant has
never been beaten by an Australian, and
he has met them all over the last three
years; Crawford fell to him at Sea bright.


MELBOURNE I
Twice. Dji/w -2 /5~ 6 I
S5ll
n
AT TMl
The Empire’s Most Famous Jester,
GEORGE ROBEY,
and His Big: New Company of Variety.
“HIGHLIGHTS FROM HOLLYWOOD.’
ANNA MAY WONG,
(he Famous Stase and Screen Star,
and Big New Company Stars.
PAINFUL CORNS.
J?iS?s£yrfcffJK SZ S3R ft
or soft A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
LTD., Melbourne.
Have
you
Gums
immunized
Your
with
Morning
Th
0
5
D
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Miss Lawrence and the A.B.C.
Verdict of The Bulletin’s musical
critic on Miss Marjorie Lawrence:
“Up to the standard of any concert
artist who has ever visited Sydney.”
During Miss Lawrence’s Melbourne
season the Bulletin man there was
similarly enthusiastic:
In view of the fact that she descended
on Melbourne in the middle of the most
prolonged tornado of music on local
record, the success of Marjorie Lawrence
continues to be amazing.
Packed houses have heard her evening
performances without affecting the matinee
attendances. . . , ,
The Dean’s Marsh girl’s singing has been
remarkable in almost all departments, but
most outstanding in grand opera.
He had praised her just as highly in
previous notices. It was widely agreed by
critics that the Australian girl is a mag-
nificent singer.
Miss Lawrence moved on to Sydney,
and came up once more against the
A.B.C. opposition she had encountered
in Melbourne. Despite this, the Bulle-
tin man reported, the Town Hall was
fairly well filled for her opening concert.
But A.B.C. has the drop on the private
entrepreneur. As clash attractions against
Lawrence it has had two world-famed
concert performers —Schnabel, pianist;
Szell, conductor—and it has put them
on. not singly, but together.
A.B.C. has resources for advertising
its imports denied to the manager of an
Australian artist such as Miss Lawrence.
It can broadcast its free ads. over the
national stations, where the private en-
trepreneur cannot advertise even if he’s
prepared to pay. It is a very considerable
and very unfair advantage.
So this Australian singer, making a
return visit to her homeland after having
won world renown, has had to cancel
one of her Sydney concerts owing to
poor attendances. A similar cause would
not affect A.B.C. imports of foreigners.
The public would foot the bill out of its
£1 Is. license fee.
With very good reason, Miss Law-
rence had her say in a published inter-
view:—
It is heartbreaking. I gave up a great
deal to come to Australia, and this is the
reception I get in her biggest city.
I can only suppose that it is because I
am an Australian. Foreign .artists can
hold their 14 and 15 concerts—Sydney
people are not sufficiently interested in me
to come to five. It is a terrible feeling.
1 have been asked time and again to
change my name and my nationality, both
in the United States and in France, but I
am proud of being an Australian, and 1
refused. Apparently Australians are not
proud of me.
My audience on Saturday night was the
smallest I have ever had. There were many
more at the concert I gave in my tiny home
town, Winchelsea, which has a population
of 700. The average attendance at my
nine concerts in the Melbourne Town Hall
was 2800. .
Sydney people apparently are not interested
in Australian artists. It is an appalling
prospect for the many young Australian
artists who go abroad to train. Where is
their public going to be, if their own
country rejects them?
The concert which caused this ex-
pression of feeling was that of last
Saturday night. There have been better
attendances at Sydney Town Hall to
listen to collections of guitar-strummers.
The attendance was stated to have been
600 ; it looked less. It was all the more
remarkable because —apart from the
A.B.C. double-barrel bombardment in
opposition to Miss Lawrence —it is doubt-
ful if other. Sydney entertainment has
ever been at a lower level. The stage
offerings are a couple of light enter-
tainers, the one at the Royal good amuse-
ment. Films are mostly very ordinary.
Since none of these addresses have re-
ported cancellations, there would seem
to be something in the comment made on
behalf of Miss Lawrence: “It is not a
slur on Miss Lawrence, but on Sydney.”
In Sydney’s defence, it might be argued
that it has only a limited concertgoing
population, and A.B.C. has been hogging
the market. The cancelled concert was to
have taken place on Monday night.
Already A.B.C. was out with its adver-
tising—including its own “free” adver-
tising at the public’s expense—for its
latest import, the French organist Dupre.
Opening on Tuesday night at the Town
Hall, M. Dupre was billed for three con-
certs this week, and A.B.C. has an
orchestral concert for to-night (Wednes-
day)! . , ■ ,
So the Australian singer s Monday-
night concert was cancelled, and Miss
Lawrence is billed to sing her farewell to
Sydney to-morrow (Thursday) evening.
At her first Sydney concert Marjorie
Lawrence more than fulfilled all ex-
pectations. She has youth, vivacity, good
looks, a charming platform manner
and a voice which in all registers
can be produced at tremendous vol-
ume without any sign of strain.
In place of the serenity and poise of
Flagstad, a prima donna in very much
the same operatic field, Lawrence gives
an impression of fiery eagerness. She
sings some things with a fierce, almost
cruel joy. Flagstad’s “Erl King” is a
flickering of shadows; Lawrence makes
"GOOD-BYE, MR, CHIPS,” AT SYDNEY ST. JAMES.
it full-blooded drama, with the element
of horror well rammed home. It was so
that Patti and Nordica used to thrill their
lic^r^rs
The opening recital’s purplest patch,
according to the intentions of the pro-
gramme-maker, was the immolation scene
from “Gotterdammerung,” a vigorous
and pulse-raising piece of declamation,
which, nevertheless, should not be
divorced from its context and stage set-
ting. Schubert’s “Impatience,” sung with
a whole heart and boundless zeal, was, in
the circumstances, a better measure of a
great singer’s art. In the lighter vein
such ballads as “My Ain Folk, Cunnin
Little Thing” and “Doon the Burn,
Davie,” demonstrated Lawrence’s versa-
tility of mood. . . .
Supporting baritone Alfredo Luizzi (an
Australian lad for a’ that) sang Purcell
and Handel pleasantly, and showed a
strong flair for the histrionic in Rigo-
letto’s “Race of Courtiers, Vile Rabble.
Accompanist Felix Wolfes must be to
Lawrence a treasure and a jewel. Stead-
fast as the Rock of Gibraltar, as reliable
as a thrice-tested chronometer, he sits
in the shadow and weaves backgrounds
always exactly right in texture and
degree of assertiveness. Unobtrusive
tribute to the magnificence of his prin-
cipal’s tone-quality, the lid of the large
Bechstein stays up throughout the per-
formance.
M. Dupre, etc.
The musical tornado continued to rage
unabated in Melbourne last week, but
the shifting of the centre of the disturb-
ance to the State Theatre caused a
momentary lull at the Town Hall.
In conjunction with Deanna Durbin
and “Three Smart Girls,” Australian
bass-baritone Peter Dawson had no diffi-
culty in packing a playhouse which can
accommodate more amusement-seekers
even than the Town Hall. Dawson was
as facile as ever in his singing of the well-
worn Barber’s Song from “The Barbel
of Seville,” struck the sentimental note
with “I Travel the Road” and made Kip-
ling’s “Boots” live again. He chatted
familiarly with the audience, did some
impromptu business with a handkerchiel
and increased his prestige by refusing to
accede to the persistent demand for
encores.
Any notion that Melbourne’s music-
lovers would be unequal to the strain of
two or three dozen “celebrity” concerts
on end was dispelled when Marcel Dupre,
eminent French organist, succeeded the
Vienna Choir at the Town Hall. He
played Bach, Mozart, Handel and some
modem composers, including himself,
but it Was as an improvisator that he
proved one of the biggest draws Mel-
bourne has heard for years.
Improvising is popularly regarded as
a suspect art, but when on successive
evenings sundry local musicians, includ-
ing Dr. Floyd, of St. Paul’s, handed up
to Dupre sealed orders, so to speak, in
the shape of themes he had never seen
before, and after a few seconds’ contem-
plation and some preparatory manipula-
tions of the stops he plunged into pro-
longed-musical dissertations which lasted
almost as long as a symphony, the audi-
ence sat up amazed. When, after expert
musicians in the audience had concluded
that he had exhausted all possible varia-
tions of his theme, he launched without
a pause on an elaborate fugue, it was
generally concluded that he knew his
onions, and some even gave him the
credit for having produced in his last
improvisation on Thursday a new origi-
nal and outstanding work of art.
From the point of view of the average
listener these performances of his were
magical feats of mental arithmetic,
though, since he appears to know his
ponderous instrument inside out, they
were probably no more extraordinary
than the ability of a practised politician
to develop a long, logical argument about
imperialism or democracy in answer to
a question put to him by an unsophisti-
cated interviewer.
Big and tall for a Frenchman, Dupie
sits at his organ as relaxed as Schnabel
at his piano, and his feet appear to be
as responsive to his mind as his hands.
He can make the organ whimper and
bray, sound like a violin or a flute, and,
alternatively, simulate the whole range
of an orchestra. Some of the finales to
the symphonic works shook the balconies
without a single one of the themes being
drowned in the sea of sound. Starting
with poor houses, he finished with splen-
did ones.
The musical marathon at Melbourne
Town Hall was brought to a noble con-
clusion on Saturday evening, Artui
Schnabel and the Sydney String Quartet
being deputed to bring in the trophy. It
consisted of a fine performance of
Mozart’s quartet in G minor, Dvorak s
quintet in A major and the lovely F
minor quintet of Brahms. All the regu-
lar first-nighters rolled up to see the
finish.
Schnabel and Szell.
The swan-song of a notable musical
partnership was sung at Sydney Town
Hall on Wednesday night, when Georg
Szell, as conductor, had Artur Schnabel
as soloist in a performance of the Second
Pianoforte Concerto of Brahms. This
was the last of their appearances together
during the current Australian season.
The orchestra earlier in the evening
had given a well-rounded, carefully re-
hearsed performance of Brahms’s Fourth
Symphony, imparting to that work, usu-
ally considered so austere, many touches
of tenderness and even geniality.
The band came to the Concerto, there-
fore, in appropriate mood, and the result
was a supremely satisfying reading of a
remarkable work. The illuminative qual-
ity of Schnabel’s playing, particularly in
declamatory or meditative passages, was
never better exemplified.
New Theatre in Melbourne.
According to a foreword on the pro-
gramme of “The Sword Sung at the Cen-
tral Hall, Melbourne, “New Theatre, un-
like most theatres of to-day, has a pur-
pose— an aim apart from and yet closely
bound up to the art of the drama. .That
aim is not the box office, nor is it the
manufacture of dramatic drugs. The aim
is the restoration for the theatre of its
historic right of social criticism.”
Applying this criterion to Miss
Catherine Duncan’s opus is not a happy
task, because she completely contradicts
it. In her lengthy one-acter with its nine
non-progressive episodes there is scarcely a
breath of social criticism. There is not
as much social criticism in it as there is
in half a dozen lines of Shaw or even
much more mediocre bourgeois drama-
tists who regularly get a hearing in the
box-office theatre. To make all her bad
men bankers and parsons and all her
good ones workers is not social criticism
but political cartooning. The workers
all have aspirations for making the world
better; but who wouldn’t like to make
the world better?
The play appears to be the story of
the disillusionment of a soldier in the
next war. He is seen off by his wife at
the departure of a troopship, and she sub-
sequently exhorts the women to put a
stop to the war, though without telling
therh how to do it, and she is put into
prison. The soldier begins to have his
belief in his patriotic ideals shaken when
he meets his fellow-soldiers in the troop-
ship, and later, in the trenches, conies
in contact with a revolutionary, He is
put in charge of a prisoner who is to be
interrogated about the enemy positions,
allows him to escape and is machine-
gunned in the pursuit.
He is next seen in hospital and, having
been taken for a hero, is offered a medal.
He indignantly repudiates it, and the clos-
ing scene is the return of the troopship,
his reconcilement with his wife and a
pasan of all the workers in praise of get-
ting the wheels of industry going and
eliminating war and all its attendant
horrors. But, again, nothing is said as
to how to do it. There is plenty of
rhetoric in the play, but rhetoric hasn’t
done anything in the past and isn’t likely
to do anything in the future.
In the absence of anything remotely
resembling a human being among the
characters the cast of anonymous actors
had symbols to deal with, and as they
could not make the symbols live it was
difficult to make an audience feel the
situations. The play was carefully pro-
duced, however, and there was nothing
wrong with the methods of the play-
wright ; but if there is one thing she isn’t
being it is critical.
“Good-bye, Mr. Chips.”
Robert Donat.
At last Sydney’s long filmic drought
has broken with this uncommonly engag-
ing film at Sydney St. James. An
M.-G.-M. picturisation of James Hilton’s


Divorce Notice.
NOTICE OF CITATION.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN CHARLOTTE DAISY MURPHY
Petitioner
And ROY MURPHY, Respondent.
TO ROY MURPHY late of Marrickville in the
State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CHAR-
LOTTE DAISY MURPHY has commenced a
suit against you in this Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twentieth day of
October 1939 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twentieth day of July, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
LAMARO & McGRATH, Solicitors for the
Petitioner, 104 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Personal and Missing Friends.
VviLL FRED VERNON write to Mrs. Grigg
(Kit), Burra Creek, Robertstown, South Aus-
tralia, re legacy?
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
FEDERAL LAND TAX RETURNS NOW DUE.
31st August °l9*» nd heW at midnight on the 30th June, 3939 » are required to be lodged by
Land Tax Returns must be submitted by companies and persons resident in the
Commonwealth when the unimproved value of tbe land held is £4OOO or over, and by or
on mvTi ot al;,sen t ees when the unimproved value is One Pound or over.
1 his year, returns, showing full details of each parcel of land are required from all
persons liable to furnish returns, irrespective of whether or not any change in holdings
or values has taken place since furnishing previous year’s returns.
For holdings confined to New South Wales, Form A should be used. Where land is
owned m more than one State, the return should be made on Form B, and forwarded to
the Deputy federal Commissioner of Taxation, Box 769 G, G.P.0., Melbourne.
forms and full information may be obtaiped at the principal post offices or at
federal Taxation Office, 3rd Floor, Government Savings Bank Building, 21-23 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney—postal address: Box 4046 W, G.P.0., Sydney.
Penalty for late lodgment 10% additional tax —minimum £l.
Penalty for failure to lodge returns—£loo.
A. B. DOUGLAS-BROWN, Deputy Commissioner of Land Tax.
STAINS ON
FALSE TEETH
GONE!
'*^&sS*s£,
it is easy to use
’Steradent.’ Fill
the cap of the tin
with ‘Steradent’
and pour the pow-
der into a glass
containing suffici-
ent warm water
(not hot) to cover . -
the dentures. Stir AFTER
well. Put in your dentures and leave them
while you dress, or overnight. Take them
out and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Then your teeth and plates are clean-
clean where the brush can’t reach. Dull
teeth gleam white again. Plates regain
their natural colour. ‘Steradent’ is guar-
anteed harmless to dental materials. Sold by
all chemists. Price 2/-. Double size 3/6.
You are safe with ‘ Steradent.’ It is highly
recommended by the Dental profession.
RECKITTS <OVER SEA) LTD.
(Pharmaceutical Dept. ), Sydney.
BEFORE
Steradent
c leans and sterilizes false teeth
BRANDAIJERS
Xk
c*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKAHDABKR * CO, Ltd, BIUMISGtUM. EKO
OF
v:;
1y
cST?
'B3Z
One dbotninant
J-^urpoAe
One purpose underlies the
dealings of the Union Bank with
each customer: to try to make
the relationship advantageous to
both the customer and the Bank.
The Union Bank
of Australia Limited
Incorporated in England
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
book, it is one of the finest films, and
certainly the most skilful stretch of
characterisation, that this commentator
has witnessed.
A simple and dignified recording of
the life of an English schoolmaster, it is
conceived and presented, acted and
directed with a remarkable degree of skill,
and with a quietness and sincerity com-
pletely in accord with its theme. The
narrative is unfolded without strong
scenes and without dramatic highlights;
rich in sentiment as distinct from senti-
mentalism, it reveals an etching of
character that is deep, firm and beautiful
—the work of an actor as an artist,
recognising his profession as a true art.
Mr. Chipping comes to Brookfield
school as a dreaming young man,
divorced from reality and fired with the
impractical idealism of youth. A certain
measure of shyness causes him to fault
with his first class of boys and, appre-
hensive of failing again, he draws aloof,
preserving his authority by his remote-
ness from his pupils. Unable to find a
common bond of friendship with any-
one, he retires more and more into the
seclusion of his own thoughts, and re-
mains a lonely, wistful idealist. In
tolerance and patience, together with the
longing and ability to learn and under-
stand, he has qualities of greatness, but
they are suppressed and hidden by an
inherent shyness, and the barriers he
has set up frustrate him at every turn.
Mr. Chipping becomes prematurely old,
his careless and almost freakish
appearance isolating him still further and
concealing his hunger for human com-
panionship. Then, suddenly sensing his
loneliness, the German master takes him
on a walking tour of the Tyrol. The
recluse emerges from his retirement a
little, and his meeting with and marriage
to a sterling English girl who recognises
the qualities in him completes his trans-
formation. She instinctively breaks down
the barriers he has set up, and Mr. Chips
steps into a world of friendly, natural
human beings.
Enriched by human friendship, he
watches the passage of the years and
sees two or three generations pass
through the school. A year after his
marriage his wife dies and the tragedy
throws him closer to the school, his
pupils and associates. He sees the death
of Victoria, the Boer War and the Great
War, he sees his own ambitions fulfilled
or scattered, he enriches himself from the
experiences of every day and passes his
knowledge and understanding on to the
thousands of pupils who pass through his
hands.
In the hands of Donat the character of
Chips is a masterpiece. Painstaking and
thoughtful in detail, penetrating and
sympathetic in appreciation, and blended
with consummate skill to a finished work
of art, it is a performance that should
rank the actor among the screen’s best.
The dreaming youth, the retiring,
awkward middle-aged man and the bird-
like old person of the concluding scenes
are portrayed to the last degree of
accuracy.
As Chipping’s wife, Greer Garson not
only introduces a very finished actress,
but a type of woman that has rarely, if
ever, been seen on the screen. She seems
to be possessed of a depth and value that
make a greater and more lasting im-
pression than her undoubtedly very
charming outward appearance. As an
actress she is completely natural, and her
work is utterly devoid of effort.
The background of the film is filled
in with characters as perfectly cast and
as the principals. There’s a mag-
nificent headmaster —a walking counter-
part of W. G. Grace —who marches into
a room of yelling youngsters and barks
“The whole class will report at my office
in alphabetical order at three-minute
intervals” and marches out again with
nary a blink of an eyelid. Then there
are teachers and housekeepers excellently
portrayed, while all the youngsters —and
there seem to be thousands of ’em —are
extraordinarily natural, and with English
voices that are music on the ears after
the twanging of the Amurrican cheild.
The atmosphere of the school is
splendidly caught by arrestingly beauti-
ful photography, and there is about the
whole film, its people, its scenes and its
action, an almost breathing naturalness
that contributes largely to making ft the
masterpiece it is.
“Union Pacifier
Joel McCrea, Barbara Stanwyck.
A large sprawling Western of almost
exhaustive length and breadth, this main
item at Sydney Prince Edward works out
at a little better than most of its kind
most of the way and considerably better
in some of its good moments.
Story has to do with the building of
the Union Pacific railroad, which, for
some obscure reasons, had to reach Ogden
or somewhere before the Central Pacific
line got there. Unscrupulous financier
wanted it t’other way round, and paid
still more unscrupulous gambling boss to
disorganise the work of Union Pacific
with wine, women and song. U.P.
couldn’t put its finger on the pother, but
detailed Mr. McCrea to disorganise the
w., w. and s.
Mr. McCrea trussed himself up with
a couple of guns and stalked in and out
of gambling dens, shootin’ here and
fightin’ there, and ridin’ there and schem-
in’ here, and before long he’d found a
couple of remarkably villainous villains
and Miss Stanwyck, who was the engine-
driver’s daughter. With those four people
on the same beat, and with Mr. McCrea’s
two bodyguards supporting a couple of
guns in the offing, it’s a level bet that
there’ll be a spontaneous combustion
somewhere before fadeout.
At a matter of fact there are several
combustions. One between Injuns and
Mr. McCrea, a villain and Miss
Stanwyck; another between a moun-
tain, an engine, a shaky train bridge
and Mr. McCrea; one between Mr.
McCrea and one villain; another
between Mr. McCrea and the other
villain; then between the two villains,
thus leaving Mr. McCrea and Miss Stan-
wyck to manage the last combustion.
The story is threaded fairly coherently
through all that, and there’s a fair meas-
ure of action to keep it on the move.
Miss Stanwyck isn’t hard to look at, and
assumes an Irish brogue; Mr. McCrae
says little and does much; Robert Pres-
ton and Brian Donlevy make an excel-
lent brace of cads. Akim Tamiroff and
Lynne Overman as a couple of old-timers
furnish the best acting in the film.
Amateur Filmsmiths.
Until he saw Rupert the Cad leering
from the screen at the Teachers’ Federa-
tion Hall, Sydney, this Showman hadn’t
realised that any amateur with a cine-
camera can make ffis own melodramas
and invite the neighbors in to see villains
and heroines, dark plottings and virtue
rewarded—any story for which he can
find actors to help him out.
Frank Brooks, who took third prize
in the Australian Amateur Cine Society’s
competition with “What a Day,” had a
whale of a day with Algernon the Good
in his old car, and Rupert the Bad in his
new car, and Dorothea the Desirable in-
veigled into the new car, and the old
car rattling hell-for-leather to the beach
in the wake of the villain, and misunder-
standings, and Rupert the Rotter aban-
doning Dorothea to a shark, and Alger-
non to the rescue, and true love triumph-
ing, and Rupert registering rage. It took
the prize, presumably, for its excellent
shots of shore and sea rather than for
originality of plot, but it seemed to open
up the most bounding possibilities.
R. Lowe, winner of the first prize, was
the one who showed that in documentary,
at all events, the amateur has no need
to bow before the professional. His
“Coast Town,” recording a holiday at
Harrington (N.S.W.), would hold interest
in any theatre. The store, the local iden-
tities, the old fisherman, the bloke who
robbed the wild bees’ hive high up an old
gum were living pictures, and a shot of
fishermen hauling in a net full of garfish
was a gem. The only flaw, and that a
slight one, was that his commentator
seemed to have been brought up in the
same Sunday School as James A. Fitz-
patrick.
Color helped to sustain the interest in
L. H. Solomon’s day at Sydney Zoo—-
second-prize winner—which otherwise was
somewhat long-drawn-out. The opening
scene with monkeys 2in. long was dis-
concerting, but he’d managed to catch
the other inmates most naturally. In
the aquarium and in a group of brightly-
colored parrakeets he had the finest
moments of the evening. When he turned
his camera to Sydney over the water,
the picture of green gums, red flowers,
blue water and distant enchanted build-
ings was so beautiful that one almost
went home muttering about Our Harbor.
He’d had a good idea in working in the
adventures of a couple of youngsters to
hold the film together.
Fourth prize went to W. J. F. Stubbs
for a painstaking “Feathered Features.”
It must have been hard work making it,
and there wouldn’t be many audiences
who could resist the appeal of his
butcher-birds, the female feeding the
young, the male swooping in rage at the
cameraman.
The prizewinning films are going over-
seas to international competitions. Lowe’s
effort should have every chance of bring-
ing home the bacon, and Solomon’s, too,
might be good for a rasher.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
-If
-Yiy
ygg
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron afid staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney,
’Phone: 84771.
KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should pass 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter. , „ .
If your kidneys don t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss cf
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lay you up for many months.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist for DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney dis-
orders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN'S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
There was a reception at the French
Consulate on Saturday morning to wel-
come Mr. and Mrs, Dupre. There was
a tremendous “here we speak French”
air about the party. Every second guest
was a son or daughter of France. Consul-
General Tremoulet was the host. Ihe
Bertie Kellys were there, her wide and
shallow black hat a forerunner of spring.
Noticed pretty Mrs. Marr Thompson,
also Marjorie Lawrence, Mrs. Brenac
and the Charles Moses couple. Mrs.
Dupre’s coat was a lovely garment-
black and grey Persian lamb. Black was
her hat, black her veil, but it had pink
chenille spots on its border. The Dupres
have three homes. One at Meudon, one
at Biarritz and one at the seaside.
Singer Marjorie Lawrence, after de-
claring white her favorite platform frock-
ing, swam on to the Town Hall for her
first concert like a faintly blushing swan.
The frock was of marquisette, soft with
lace and flounces —a suggestion of the
apron effect we are threatened with in
the skirt. Behind the soft roll of fair
hair above her forehead, and higher than
it, was a coronet-like effect of pink camel-
lias—very tasty. She sang “The Linden
Tree” with exquisite sensibility. She
painted the light and shade ; you could
hear the trembling of the leaves. Every-
where in the big audience were girl
students who listened breathless to the
Brunnhilde number.
That non-stop was, of course, the final
number. In the interval there was such
buzz of excitement in the vestibule as
this writer has never before heard. The
singing elect were pouring out a sort of
Hallelujah Chorus. Lady Gowrie, her
poinsettia-red satins worn under a be-
furred velvet coat, came to the concert, in
her train a large party from Admiralty
House. Mayor Norman Nock and his
wife, her frock all pink and silver gleams,
were there. Noreen Dangar, who is keen
on the arts, was an intent listener. Mrs.
Ben Edye and daughter Stephanie
brought the loveliest clothes. Mrs. Nor-
man McLeod wrapped her turquoise
velvets in squirrel; the Charles Philips
came with Dolly Hollander Moore. Billy
Williams’s cape was of black velvet, and
swirled to the ground. Lute Drummond
brought an aviary. Sir Hugh Poynter was
there ; so were Mrs. Bertie Kelly, Mrs.
Pat Osborne, Mrs. Alan Foote and
France’s Consul-General Tremoulet, one
of whose greatest friends is also one of
Marjorie’s. He gave a supper party for
the singer in his Point Piper home after
the concert. After that Wagner outburst
Miss Lawrence must have needed a long,
long drink. Temperance enthusiasts need
not look askance. Marjorie’s drinks are
soft.
The official table at the Lewisham ball
repaid all the time and thought which
had been spent on it. There was a
settler’s little wattle-and-daub home sur-
rounded by flower-plots, farmyard and
bushland creatures and ponds. Progress
was represented by sulkies, motor-cars
and aeroplanes. There were also
dolls dressed in the uniform of the
Lewisham sisters. These had been
dressed by Miss Kate Egan, and one
went to Lady Gowrie, who with the
Governor-General attended the ball. But
the romantic touch was supplied with
high silver candlesticks in which slim tur-
quoise candles burned. On Mrs. M. J.
O’Neill’s table, too, candles in silver
holders shed soft glow over opulent
flower decorations.
Mrs. M. Flynn’s table went all Dutch
—tulips and hyacinths. A young Hol-
lander and his lass, her pail filled with
hyacinths, had a windmill for back-
ground. President Miss Kate Egan wore
marquisette —blue as a mountain haze.
Mrs. Walter Burfitt’s black velvets held
golden gleams. Mrs. Walter, junior,
also wore black velvet, but fine
white Mechlin lace was about its
neck and hem. Mrs. Bertie Kelly
was at the Waverley ball, receiving
debs., but son Carleton and his wife were
there to hear Dr. Burfitt announce Coun-
tess FreehilPs gift of £5OOO towards the
new wing. Which means more jobs for
good Australian workmen.
Publicity-secretary Mrs. C. Guiney was
among the night’s good-looking. Mrs. Joe
Coen was the centre of a bright group.
Mrs. A. W. D’Apice’s silks had a design
as gay as confetti. Salvia-red velvets
were worn by Mrs. V. J. McPhee. Doc-
tors and their wives were everywhere,
the tall Patterson couple among them.
Mrs. Toby Browne’s white woollen coat
was shot with silver. Her frock was of
hyacinth pink moire. A Russian ermine
coat is the lingering memory of Mrs.
John Woods’s outfit. Judge McTiernan
made one of his rare ballroom appear-
ances. Knight Henry Manning and his
wife and the banker Davidson couple
were in the group about the vice-regals.
Lady Gowrie’s frock shone silver and
blue under her red velvet coat.
Pauline Francais is the producer of
the ballets and ensembles in “Viktoria
and Her Hussar,” which will be pre-
sented at the Conservatorium on August
9 in aid of the Industrial Blind Institute.
It is nine years since Miss Fran?ais pro-
duced her first work—a French revue at
L’ceil de Paris. She has toured with
her own company of dancers through-
out Europe and America, and last year
she arranged the ballets for “Vers les
Etoiles” at the Alhambra in Paris. She
creates her own ballets and has named
one after her famed Russian teacher,
Astafieva. “Viktoria and Her Hussar”
will be the work of the Mosman Musi-
cal Society, whose shows are among the
best of Sydney’s amateur offerings.
Photograph by Wilemin.
The Red Cross is stepping out. A dinner
and dance at Prince’s was the manner
of its farewell to Lady Gowrie. The
thought of gas-masks and bandages was
thrown in the discard for the night, and
the Red Cross (don’t divide that with a
comma) chairman, the executive com-
mittee and members of the headquarters
branch went gala with a flower in the
buttonhole, an orchid on the shoulder.
The red and white flower posies were
sold for the cause by Rada Penfold
Hyland, later on one of the lightfooted
in the dance, and Mary Allworth. Lady
Gowrie spoke fair words to her hosts
on the work of the society, her smile
showing she meant every word.
There really was a grand muster, and
everybody looked happy in the bright
surroundings, from chairman Mackay
Sim down. Admiral and Mrs. Feakes
were there, and Kate Egan and Ruby
Storey were among the society’s stalwarts
at the official table. The Fairfax lady
was all black and silver glints. Faith
Macarthur Onslow, who was one of the
shekel-collectors, wore blue taffetas. Mrs.
Beresford Grant’s black frock was lighted
by a good voltage of diamente. Mrs.
Lorimer Dods’s blacks were sleekly cut.
The Langer Owen lady’s fair coloring
had nice contrast in her pale-pink ostrich
cape, her pastel-blue moires. Lady
Gowrie, who went from the dinner to the
Masonic Ball, covered her black, flower-
patterned lame with a coat of jade-green
velvet.
A pink card complete with jockey
riding through a horseshoe was the
heartening invitation to City Tattersall’s
Ball. As always, the money from this
night of fun went to various hospitals.
The racecourse atmosphere was con-
tinued. In the ballroom were the
saddling paddock gates from Randwick
(a mere copy, of course); there were
umbrellas, same as shade the weary
bookmaker on the stand, over each table.
These were in bright blue and gold.
Even the orchestra turned out to be a
group of jockeys, judging by their caps
and shirts. The scene in David Jones’s
ballroom was very spirited. Chairman
Gus Mooney entertained the official
party. Secretary Pat O’Leary and his wife
were host and hostess to another bright
party, and the Edward Johnston couple
(he was treasurer) did the honors at a
table surrounded by brightness.
It looked as if all highbrow Sydney,
even from the upper reaches of the
North Shore, had turned up at the Union
refectory last Thursday to down one with
the dons. The hosts were the Alexander
Gibsons, of Wollstonecraft. He is a
member of the University Senate. Per-
haps Sydney University is to become
as noted for its sherry parties as Oxford
and Cambridge. The surroundings
certainly lend themselves to the sipping
of mellow vintages and the exchange
of politenesses. Mrs. Gibson’s black
suit looked prosperous with Persian
lamb. The chou of white embroidered
muslin on daughter Kitty’s hat was a
prophecy of spring. Chancellor of the
Uni. Halse Rogers brought his lady. Her
choice in furs was blue fox. Among the
smart were Mrs. Hugh Poate and Mrs.
J. C. Windeyer. Gathered about the
buffet tables with their decorations of
golden flowers were practically all the
professors with their wives. Also present
were Mayor Nock and his wife.
Ada Baker, looking hale and hearty
in a black velvet ensemble and floral
satin coatee, last week celebrated her 50
years’ connection with the musical pro-
fession in Sydney. About 100 of her
students marked the occasion with a per-
formance of “Les Cloches de Corneville”
at the Con. Profits of a three nights’
season went to the Rachel Forster Hos-
pital. Eric Howell was producer, and
James Arcus conducted the orchestra.
Wal Goodman, who played Gaspard, re-
ceived a lobster, and Ada Baker was
handed several charming gifts.
Mrs. Molesworth (Mall Molesworth) is
one of our few women tennis champions
to turn professional coach. Mall, who
was ten times champion of Queensland,
has at various times held the champion-
ship of all the other States except West-
ralia. She has played international tennis,
too, in Holland, France, Germany. She
played for Australia at Wimbledon in
1934. Mall has just been invited by
N.S.W. women selectors to prepare a
“comprehensive scheme of thorough
coaching” for a picked group of girls,
the idea being to recapture the Wilson
Cup for this State. The Wilson Cup will
be contested about January next. Photo-
graph from Peter Pan.
“How beautiful are the feet!” The
words of the aria will lift themselves in
the heart when French organist Marcel
Dupre plays Sydney’s Town Hall instru-
ment (or should so mighty an organ be
referred to as an institution?). Marcel's
feet will have the spotlight full on them
during his concerts, so that one and all
can see the cunning of his pedalling. Also
he wears a velvet smoking jacket. Tails
interfere with the view. Marcel sounds
a likeable creature. He is ready to sink
the man in the organist. Does the world
hold a woman organist who would have
a spotlight turned on her feet, and don
a pair of shorts for the sake of art? Mr.
Dupre is claimed to be the world’s
supreme player of his pet instrument, and
if musicianship can be gauged by appear-
ances there’s justice in his title. He has a
distinguished air, a vivid yet musing
glance, fine hands.
St. Quinton Downer, who returned to
Australia in the Otranto last month, has
decided on a Sydney address; Cromer,
Phillip Street, will be his headquarters.
He will give lecture recitals in New
South Wales and Queensland, conduct
examinations for the A.M.E.8., and will
appear with the A.B.C. He left Aus-
tralia some years ago, and has been busy
with concert playing and broadcasting in
England, Ireland and South Africa. When
he was very young the erratic Pachman
gave him some priceless lessons. He
also studied with the great Busoni.
Just announced in London newspapers
is the engagement between Charles Brian
Swann, only son of Mr. and Mrs. Harold
Swann, of Standon Lordship, Ware, and
Vanessa Fiaschi Dalrymple, eldest daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. E. W. D. Tennant,
of the Vineyard, Saffron Walden. Mrs.
E. W. D. Tennant was formerly Eleonora
Fiaschi, of Sydney, second daughter of
Dr. Thomas Fiaschi, one of the most
celebrated doctors Sydney has known.
Still another spot to make merry in is
about to be opened. Florida, a lovely
home in Tivoli-avenue, the gardens of
which slope to the Harbor, is the chosen
spot. Florida has two ballrooms ; its archi-
tecture is Spanish, with a touch of South
American. The faintly pink marble
staircase is made of marble brought from
Lima in Peru. It has a doorway between
its lounges brought from Andalusia. It
is built on four planes, and is topped
by a penthouse.
All Marjorie Lawrence’s flower offer-
ings don’t appear front stage. Her dress-
ing-room was fragrant with sheaves and
posies of all sizes last Thursday. There
Marjorie stood in the midst of flowers
and admirers, the floating cherry mists of
her frock culminating in a cloud of
white ermine. The ermine, to be exact,
was a ground-length coat. Baritone
Luizzi was getting his meed of praise,
too. Ken Lawson, a concert addict, was
there talking to Marjorie about Edith
Walker (an opera coach of great renown
in Paris). An opera by Enesco in which
Marjorie had contemplated singing the
part of the Sphinx was chatted over. Ken
has a great collection of gramophone
records, many of them signed. Nellie
Melba’s name is on two of them.
Musicmakers of every calibre made
for the Lyceum Club last Friday. It was
a big day for the music circle. Its guests
were conductor Georg Szell and his wife,
the “Sun’s” Hugh Denison and lady, and
Clifford Huntsman, an English pianist
whose digits have demonstrated Debussy
to Mother India. Of course, he plays
other composers, but it’s convenient to
stick to the alliterative passage. Laur-
ence Godfrey Smith, who also plays De-
bussy, so that the notes sparkle like drops
from a fountain, was a luncher. He
made a speech. Hugh Denison also made
a speech. This foreshadowed a concert
hall of Wagnerian dimensions. He said
he hoped when next Szell came here
Sydney would be able to offer him a
National Hall of Music. The very phrase
conjures up a vision of the Mastersingers
in full cry.
Somewhere Barrie, speaking of a
woman character, says “If you have
charm you have all,” or words to that
effect. Well, that’s what Dodie Smith’s
plays have. “Dear Octopus,” the Inde-
pendents’ current show at the Conserva-
torium, meanders along, no earthquakes
in it, no soul-searing romance, but, like
good neighbors or a charmful friend,
you feel glad it’s come to your net. And
did the Independents do the girls of the
house proud in the matter of frocking!
When mother and dad’s golden wedding
party came on, there was Cynthia, just
returned from Paris and an unhappy love
affair, wearing a ravishment of white and
black. This was moulded to the figure
from the neckline to just above the
knees, and showed a flower pattern. Just
above the knees it flowed to the ground
free and untrammelled in a flounce of
white net over black.
Fenny, who gave the Cinderella touch,
looked pathetically pretty in periwinkle-
blue chiffons, while Laurel Randolph’s
black tulles, on which positively enor-
mous white marguerites raised their tri-
umphant heads, couldn’t fail to catch the
eye. This Letter’s friend Ailsa Suther-
land was delightful as the only contented
member of the family of which Doris
Fitton, in rosy and silver was
the understanding mother who thought
it was better “to lose a principle than to
lose a daughter,” and O. D. Bisset the
father.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 1107 of 1939.
BETWEEN GORDON PATRICK WILLIAM
LUTHJE Petitioner.
And DORIS EDNA LUTHJE Respondent.
FREDERICK STEPHEN BARR Co-re-
spondent.
TO FREDERICK STEPHEN BARR of West
Cowra.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GORDON
PATRICK WILLIAM LUTHJE has com-
menced a suit against his wife DORIS EDNA
LUTHJE in this Court and is applying for a
dssolution of marriage on the grounds of adul-
’ry wherein the said Gordon Patrick William
.uthje alleges that you have been guilty of
adultery with the abovenamed Doris Edna
Luthje AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-sixth day of October One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit will be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of July,
1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
L. R. WHITELEY, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Kendall Street, Cowra; by his Town
kgent, MAURICE J. McGRATH, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1338 of 1939.
BETWEEN IRENE ELLEN MARY NEWTON
Petitioner
And RALPH RONALD NEWTON Re-
spondent.
TO RALPH RONALD NEWTON late of
Young in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said IRENE ELLEN
MARY NEWTON has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance in the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Thirteenth day of October next and
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the said suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fourteenth day of July, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
„ Registrar.
E. ALLAN UTHER, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 350 George Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 970 of 1939.
BETWEEN GEORGE BEER Petitioner
GRACE EILEEN BEER (formerly McAviney)
Respondent
And PHILLIP SINCLAIR Co-respondent.
TO PHILLIP SINCLAIR (also known as
PHILLIP MARSDEN) late of Bathurst
n NOTICE that the said GEORGE
BEER has commenced a suit against the above-
named Respondent GRACE EILEEN BEER
m this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of her adultery
with you the abovenamed co-respondent AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Thirteenth
day of October One thousand nine hundred
and thirty-nine and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Seventeenth day of July, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
K B. SPONG & TAPERELL, Solratorefor
the Petitioner, 247 George Street, Sydney.
TO CHARLES PERCIVAL BARLOW for-
merly of Bulimba in the State of Queens-
land.
. TAKE NOTICE that a citation bearing date
the 19th day of June One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine has issued out of our
sam Court citing you to appear and answer
BEATRICE ADELINE
BARLOW of 94 Cambridge Street West Leeder-
ville m the State of Western Australia praying
tor a dissolution of her marriage with you on
the ground of desertion. In default of your
appearing the Court will proceed to hear and
determine the said charge and you will not
be allowed to address the Court THERE-
FORE TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within two months from
the date of this advertisement to attend in
person or by your Solicitors at the Central
Office of our said Court and there to enter
an appearance in a book provided for that
purpose. '
T. F. DAVIES,
RUSE & SHILLINGTON, WithneT Cham-
bers, Howard Street, Perth, Petitioner’s Solici-
tors.
To be inserted once in each of the folio wine
newspapers, The Bulletin and “The Aus-
tralasian.”
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 1259 of 1939.
BETWEEN NOEL PAXTON BACKHOUSE
Petitioner
And EDITH BACKHOUSE Respondent
TO EDITH BACKHOUSE late of Dulwich
Hill near Sydney in the State of New South
WaloS
TAKE NOTICE that the said NOEL
PAXTON BACKHOUSE has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
has applied for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse. AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-seventh day of October One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion for the hearing may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of July, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
„ r . Registrar.
N. V. MENLOVE, Solicitor, 160 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Something new in display stalls was the
chic canine department at No. 9 Darling-
street, the scene of Animal Welfare
League activities with a market in the
morning and a bridge-party in the after-
noon. Miss D. Moffat and Mrs. M.
Norwood (who owns three dogs) super-
vised the department for the dog-owner
who cares. Dog cushions were sold by
the score (some were so handsome that
it would be an abnormality to send them
kennelwards), as were rugs and coats. The
Fairbairn lady and Mrs. Keith Halley had
plied knitting needles busily for several
weeks turning out winter hug-me-tights
for dogs of all sizes.
There was a great run on butchers’
bones all fussed up in hygienic wrap-
pings of transparent paper, an idea
brought forward by Mrs. H. G.
Trace, who knows how her own shaggy
little half-and-half mongrel loves a bone
to growl over. Among young helpers
who did well selling dogs’ food, “ears-
out” drinking-dishes and week-enders
containing combs, brushes and biscuits
for the dog who travels were Diana
Foster Woods, a pink bow in her hair to
match her dusty-pink woollen frock, and
Kit Dixon and Amaelia Nathan in pink
printed smocks, the kind they find so use-
ful when on duty at the A.W.L. Hospital.
Mrs. Keith Halley also wore her smock,
which carried a topical design of doggy
pictures. The only things missing from
this canines’ corner were the dogs them-
selves, though a few were present as
visitors. Nancy Hewlett’s Scottie, in his
Scottish cummerbund, put in a brief ap-
pearance, and several interested voices
inquired if he was for sale.
Young people made merry last week at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. L. R. D.
Stahle in St. George’s-road, when Marie
Stahle and Sue Dennett organised a
dance in the interests of the Deaf and
Dumb. Supper in the dining-room was
served by candlelight, with flickering
flames emanating from beer-bottles mak-
ing a Mexican desert shadow show
among pots of spiky cacti. Balloons,
which enhanced the decorative scheme in
several rooms, presented a problem the
next day when the escapees had to be
pursued to the ceiling. Among dinnei
parties given before the dance was the
Fred Dennetts’, in their home, and
Audrey Buttfield’s party for a number
of her youthful friends. Both Marie and
Sue wore black, Marie adding a gift for
the occasion of languorous purple orchids
and Sue her festively-boxed surprise
packet of camellias. University students
were present in merry numbers owing to
Marie’s past association with that seat of
learning, and to her brother lan’s pres-
ence there as a med. student.
St. Vincent’s Hospital’s ex-nurses held
their annual dinner-dance last week at
the Australia, where every inch of floor
space was much in request. Busiest per-
son on the committee was Mrs. W. R.
Burston, who donated for disposal a
three-tiered pink wedding cake. Her
niece, Lilian Lyons, who has been trained
in the domestic arts at the Emily McPher-
son College, made the cake, which was
won by Miss J. O’Sullivan, of St. Vin-
cent’s office staff. An interlude of comedy
at the dance was a polka competition,
the gentlemen wearing terrible mous-
tachios, which was won by the Clive
Boxall couple. Among the dewy young
debutantes present was Meda Manly,
demurely clad in black velvet with motifs
of grandmother’s lace.
Yet another musical week was brought
to a close on Saturday night when
Schnabel and the Sydney String Quartet
were associated in the Town Hall. The
audience was large, attentive and appre-
ciative. The usual hundred-odd arrived
late and were only permitted inside the
doors at the conclusion of the Brahms
quintet (the only number which was
broadcast). The number of people who
miss getting their money’s worth would
be reduced considerably if an extra ticket
window were provided. One window is
quite inadequate for the long queues that
clamor for attention at the most impor-
lant concerts.
Peggy Nankivell and Graeme Skinner,
who were married last Friday, kept their
honeymoon destination a closely-guarded
secret, but the field narrowed consider-
ably when they were noticed waxing
their skis. Dr. Betty Nankivell was
bridesmaid for her sister, and brother
Dick came over from W.A. to give the
bride away. Dick went back to Perth in
a day, leaving Essendon early on the
morning following the wedding. He
finds aeroplanes excellent places for mak-
ing up arrears of sleep, and expected to
arrive in Perth fresh and hearty as a
spring morning just about dusk on
Saturday.
For weeks the students of Queen’s
College have been thinking, dreaming and
almost eating insects, which preoccupa-
tion came to a grand climax last week
with the college’s presentation of “The
Insect Play.” This excellent production
filled every seat in the University Union
Theatre for three highly diverting even-
ings. It was a notable achievement, well
above amateur grading, and all the in-
sects seemed to enjoy themselves mightily,
satirising their human prototypes con-
ceived in the brains of the Capek
brothers. As human nature never
changes, the play will never date. It was
written in 1922, and the ants are a per-
fect satire on 1939 developments. Edgar
Harcourt was the Tramp (and one to be
remembered) who with booze-glazed eyes
comments through the various scenes
upon the analogies between human beings
and insects.
Ruby May, as greedy Mrs. Beetle,
who amasses her “pile” of mud (her
beloved capital), was as nasty an old
harridan as one could meet, whether on
six legs or two. Douglas Atkinson was
a doting parent, the murderous Ichneu-
mon Fly (in evening dress, topper, daddy-
long-legs gait and ominous make-up) who
is kept busy killing other insects to feed
his nasty little larva (Erica Goldring, an
undulating white object all hunger and
huge purple mouth). Elizabeth Neate as
the chrysalis must have been pleased to
shake the cramp out of her limbs for a
brief period of flickering as a moth after
such a long, long time getting born.
There were various frivolous butter-
flies, black and yellow ants fighting over
a few inches of territory between two
blades of grass, happy newly-wedded
crickets who come to a sad end on the
umbrella of the Ichneumon Fly, two her-
maphroditic snails and some peasants.
The make-up—in this play particularly
important—was excellent. Costumes,
though simple, presented difficulties, but
they, too, were successfully thought out.
Production by Keith Macartney.
Mrs. Shenton Gordon (Broothorn
photograph) and Mrs. H. F. Maudsley
are receiving reservations of tables for
next Wedneseday afternoon (9th) for a
bridge party at Phelia Grimwade House,
Anderson-street, South Yarra. The party
is in aid of the Diocesan Mission of
Streets and Lanes, and its success will be
responsible for the replenishment of
woolly winter blankets upon the cribs of
the small people who sleep dreamlessly in
the Babies’ and Children’s Homes at
Brighton and Darling. The House of
Mercy, Cheltenham, where the Mission
sisters care for 135 young people every
year, will also benefit. Lady Dugan has
an afternoon-tea appointment at the
bridge party. There’s to be a market stall
under the care of Mrs. Lance Moore,
where an array of goods will catch ever,
eye trained in the arts of housekeeping.
Flying eggs (fresh ones to boot) are
among the principal interests of Carl
Jacobson, who has been visiting Mel-
bourne and his birthplace, Beechworth,
after an absence of many years. Mr.
Jacobson is a pioneer of Markham
Valley Producers, Ltd., whose farm is ten
miles from Lae, in New Guinea. He
experimented with a new industry in the
Mandated Territory when three years ago
he imported 2000 Australorp chickens
from Queensland to start a poultry farm.
No one else took the idea seriously, and
empty nests and long hours of boiling for
skinny, scraggy birds were foreseen by
friends and neighbors, but Mrs. Jacob-
son’s hunch was a winner; the fowls,
which had all been blood-tested and vac-
cinated, developed no diseases but throve
and grew fat and laid eggs as if their lives
depended upon it.
As the requirements of. the Morobe dis-
trict for eggs freighted by ’plane are sev-
eral thousands per week short of the sup-
ply, and as the citizens of that part of
the world are partial to tasty chicken for
their dinner, the faster the feathered in-
habitants of the Markham Valley Pro-
ducers propagate their species the happier
everyone will be. The firm recently
secured the assistance of Harley Armit-
stead, poultry instructor of Gatton Col-
lege in Queensland, who disembarked at
Lae with 130 noisy companions, stud
stock Australorps, new blood for the
farm.
Not a posy of violets nor a carton of
cream (donations from the little Jerseys
at Sunbury) was left unsold at the bridge
party at Yarrien held to defray expenses
for the gymkhana on October 2 at Pen-
insula in aid of the Kindergarten Union
and the Lady Northcote Free Kinder-
garten. During the afternoon lucky-
number tickets were sold also for a basket
of fruit and a mahogany chair (its
tapestry seat the work of Mrs. T. Grant-
ham). Among the salesgirls who turned
on their charm for the benefit of the good
cause were Mrs. Stephen Kimpton, her
sister, Moira Creswick, and Dorothy
Fraser (all of whom turned to various
shades of dregs-of-wine for their frocks,
all of lightweight woollen weaves); also
Helen Wood, Penelope Little and Noela
Adams. Noela decided, with her alliance
of navy blue crepe and off-white broderie
anglaise, that spring can’t be far behind.
Mrs. Harry Creswick had a thought for
spring too in the anemones which shared
with a silver fox’s tail tip the centre of
attention upon the flat crown of her
black hat.
In the Broothorn portrait is Madame
Xenia Borovansky, who danced the role
of the Marquise in her husband’s choreo-
graphic piece, “Petite Mozartiana,” which
figured upon the programme for the
National Theatre’s first season of ballet.
The National Theatre progresses. Last
week it filled the Princess for a two-
nights’ season of ballet, an interesting
achievement to which five dancing
schools contributed. Jennie Brenan’s
“Les Sylphides” (for which Laurel
Martyn was ballet mistress) was a charm-
ing production, and drew attention to two
clever children, Martin Rubinstein, as the
Prince, and an even smaller soloist,
Patricia Keating.
Edouard Borovansky’s “Petite Mozar-
tiana” and “Etude,” both his own choreo-
graphy, were remarkable achievements
even for a prominent and experienced
member of the Russian Ballet. The
former work, to Mozart’s music, painted
the picture in mime, color and dancing
of a reception at the home of an aristo-
cratic matriarch. “Etude,” wherein by
plastic movements and groupings De-
bussy s music is interpreted, was a note-
worthy experiment performed by eight
dancers. “Swan Lake,” a fantasy from
“A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and a
“Bolero,” produced respectively by
Dorothy Gladstone, Elsie James and
Madame Saronova, completed the pro-
gramme. Regarding the music, always
a problem for ballet, impressions of the
season were that the genuine flesh-and-
blood article is superior to the “dead-
ness” of records, that music as difficult
as that by Tschaikowsky in “Swan Lake”
is bound to be a failure without thorough
rehearsing, and that the idea of two or
more pianos in lieu of all other instru-
ments is an excellent one, but only if the
pianists are used to two-piano playing.


Fitness for defence against winter ail-
ments is only possible when your system
is free from health-destroying waste.
The morning drink of Golcryst in warm
water keeps you in perfect trim for work
or sport . . . gives you a keener zest
for living! Your chemist or store sells
Golcryst at 4d., Bd., 1/3.
TAKE
DAILY
AU S T HAM AN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production “
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies* Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Estate of Mary Ethel Mclntyre.
SMITH, JOHN THOMAS, bora 3/2/1914,
son of Thomas Benjamin Smith and Mary Ethel
Fitzpatrick, or any person knowing his where-
abouts, is requested to communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney, N.S.W. ,
In the Estate of Mary Ann Newman,
Deceased.
Re Frederick Thomas Reed Newman.
WILL FREDERICK THOMAS REED
NEWMAN, formerly residing at Woburn Sands,
in the County of Buckingham, England, who
sailed for Australia in or about the month of
April, 1906, communicate with the undersigned,
when he will hear of something to his advan-
tage? Information from any person which
would assist in tracing the above or which
would establish his death (who may have
assumed the name of Aubrey Chater) would be
greatly appreciated. Failing any information
being received by the undersigned by the 30th
day of September, 1939, application will be
made to presume his death.
W. H. SMITH & CO., Solicitors,
Woburn, Beds., England.
WOULD TREVOR HARRISON BAXTER,
late of Canterbury, New Zealand, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts, please communicate
with R. A. Young, Solicitor, Christchurch, New
Zealand?
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Commonwealth Railways
“E.V.”: The 1937-38 report of the
Commonwealth Railways just issued does
not make heartening reading. The 2201
miles—half on the Kalgoorlie-Port
Augusta section of the Transcontinental,
the rest in Central and Northern Aus-
tralia —so far have cost £17,063,000 in
capital investment. They employ only
1701 in total staff,-or less than a man to
a mile.
In the last year’s operation the Trans-
Australian section lost £27,587, the Cen-
tral Australian £40,317 and the North
Australian £2665. The few miles of
Federal capital railway weighed in a sur-
plus of £1992. As, however, a total in-
terest bill of £376,000 has to be added
to the £68,000 loss on working, the true
loss is £444,000—£2000 more than gross
earnings. In the last six years earnings
increased by £134,000 per annum and
working expenses by £163,000; and the
1937-38 deficit on working was equal to
the combined losses on working in the
previous three years.
The Commissioner blames abnormal
flood expenditure in Central Australia,
heavier maintenance on the Trans-Aus-
tralian route to meet the needs of the
fast express service, and rising prices of
fuel for the drift. On the other hand,
there has been reduction of livestock
rates on the Central Australian line. It
costs £42 4s. lid. to rail 18 head of cattle
in a bogie truck from Alice Springs to
Adelaide.
In February, 1938, during the Cen-
tralian floods, the department had to
board its passengers for Alice Springs at
Oodnadatta for 11 days and then send
them on at Government expense by aero-
plane.
The future of the Territorian railways
needs considering closely in the light of
advances in aerial and road transport
suitable for the outback.
“XT.”: Once more, though served by
railway, truck and ’plane, parts of Cen-
tral Australia have been isolated by rain.
Trains on the Alice Springs line were
hours late, food trucks for the Tennant
and Hatches Creek were held up, and
two aeroplanes were bogged on the
“new” aerodrome at Alice Springs. Yet
hundreds of thousands of pounds have
been spent on giving the Territory trans-
port during the last 15 years. The trouble
all along is the official habit of doing
things by halves and of changing Min-
isters and policies when the halves are
only half-done.
* * * *
“El V.”: Dead in Brisbane, at 95, Mrs.
Amelia Margaret McDonald. Few Aus-
tralians of her age were clearer in mind
and memory than Mrs. McDonald, and
few had such intimate recollections of the
crucial days of Australian development
70 and 80 years, ago. Her father, Sir
William Fancourt Mitchell, was Acting
Colonial Secretary of Van Diemen’s
Land in the ’thirties. He went to Vic-
toria in 1840, and settled at Barfold, near
Kyneton. When gold was discovered he
was appointed Chief Commissioner of
Police, holding the job till 1856 ; he was
in charge when the arrests were made
which led to Eureka. He entered the
first Victorian Ministry in ’57 when
Haines reconstructed it, and his daughter
knew all the early historic political char-
acters of Victoria —Haines, McCulloch,
Higinbotham, Verdon and the rest. Her
brother, knight Edward Fancourt Mit-
chell, K.C., now 84, led the Victorian
Bar for many years, and her niece, Mary
Mitchell, is a well-known novelist. Mrs.
McDonald was the wife of G. T. Mc-
Donald, district surveyor at Castlemaine
(Vic.), after whom the McDonald High-
way is named. The pair went to Queens-
land in the early ’eighties, and leave a
numerous progeny scattered throughout
the State. A daughter married Brigadier
Cecil Foott, son of Mary Hannay Foott,
the poet. A son was killed in France.
* * * *
“Suomi”: Southerners think of foreign
colonies in N. Queensland as almost
"When We get married I'll dig you a pretty little bombproof shelter. ”
wholly Italian, but there are pockets full
of other races. Finns, for instance ; they
have their Finnish Association, and a
pastor from the south has been visiting
them —always the occasion for a gather-
ing at which Finns assemble, and to which
those who cannot come send a flood of
greetings. The last was held at Tully,
with competitions, music and a day de-
voted to religion, at which confirmations,
marriages and baptisms were performed.
The Finns are a law-abiding people —the
courts of the North scarcely know them.
This year the theme of their chairman’s
address was the need for every Finnish
immigrant to become a good Australian.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Exit the Montoro. She was
built in Glasgow in 1911, and pessimists
shook their heads over the question,
whether Burns Philp wasn’t risking some-
thing in buying a liner of that size. She
served the Singapore and latterly the
Islands routes. Her last job was to take
a detachment of R.A.A.F. men to estab-
lish the nucleus of aerial defences at Dar-
win. She goes to Singapore and to an
English buyer. *
“Watu”: A grisly spot has been chosen
for the site of the trans-Pacific aerodrome
at Noumea—the He de Nou, which lies
across the harbor from the town. It once
had the reputation of being the grimmest
prison in the Pacific since Port Arthur.
The convict buildings remain, but the
convicts have been replaced by Tonkinese
and Javanese laborers. There was a time
when visitors were shown a guillotine
which was alleged to have cut off the
head of Marie Antoinette. The main
tourist features will soon be seaplane
rafts, a fuelling station, workshops and
passenger accommodation for those who
travel in the 72-passenger machines on
the San Francisco-Honolulu-Canton
Island-Noumea-Auckland route to Aus-
tralia.
Hs * #
“Gain”: Bird of paradise feathers are
not often heard of in these days. A
close watch is kept on export at the pro-
duction end, and, though New Guinea
and Papuan natives may flaunt them, they
are forbidden to sell them to tourists.
One Port Moresby lad learned this to
his cost the other day when he was fined
£1 or a month for indulging in the traffic.
The culprit said he had bought the
feathers from a native on the Fly River,
where he was working for an oil com-
pany.
* * * *
“X.T.”: These Japanese seem to be a
mystery people. A missionary reported
100 Japanese pearling boats near Cape
Stewart, off Arnhem Land, while the N.T.
Dreadnought Kuru was lying in harbor
at Darwin. Kuru left Darwin under
sealed orders, and, after a trip along the
Arnhem Land coast, returned empty-
handed. The captain reported that he
had not sighted a single foreign lugger,
and that the Japanese were not fishing for
pearlshell in this region this year.
While the Kuru was away the Lar-
rakia arrived “on board the steamer
Marella,” and will join her sister-ship in
the quest. Her voyage from the south
was much quicker than the year-long
odyssey of the Kuru, which essayed the
voyage from Sydney under her own
steam.
* * * *
“Brilliant”: Charters Towers Show had
a visit from Archie Wilson —hale and
hearty at 83. Wilson called the meeting
in 1880 which founded the show. He
founded a good many other things. In
the days when gold was king in those
parts he was secretary of the old Brilliant
P.C., and one of the periodic sights of the
town was his confident figure perched in
an open cab with £15,000 in sovereigns
and silver beside him to pay the staff. A
military man in those days, he served as
captain of the local corps of Queensland
Volunteers, and—a figure in municipal
government—as Mayor. Strangely
enough, the only other foundation mem-
ber of C.T. show committee made a tour
of the North this winter —Thomas Buck-
land, president of the ’Wales Bank Board,
once Mayor of Charters Towers and its
first assayer.
* * * *
“East Point”: Darwin intends in
October to celebrate the centenary of the
founding of the Northern Territory. The
time chosen may be as good as any,
though the N.T. had so many founda-
tions that only a mathematician with a
slide rule can make sure of counting
them. On September 20, 1824, Captain
Bremer landed from the 60-ton Tamar
and founded Port Essington. Lack ol
fresh water promptly unfounded it, and
Bremer left for Melville Island, where
he had another founding and imported
the first buffaloes from Timor. In 1827
another attempt was made on the main-
land at Raffles Bay. It lasted till 1830.
After a lull of seven years there were
rumors in England that the French con-
templated colonising the North, so Cap-
tain Bremer was sent out again in the
Alligator from Plymouth. On October
26, 1839, he arrived at Port Essington,
just beating Dumont d’Urville with his
two ships. In 1849, Essington was aban-
doned again, and it was not till the late
’sixties that there was any further real
settlement, though Finniss made one essay
which ended in a camp revolt. Darwin
dates from 1868, when Surveyor-General
Goyder laid it out—it was named
Palmerston. The arrival of the Overland
Telegraph line in 1871 and the discovery
of gold which followed gave the place
its real start, and the pastoral industry
was established within the next decade.


=4r
■■■ ■ -
SRSiar'
r
&
(r*
«*
1
p£
ANUFACTURINS WIRELESS EQUIPMENT FOR
SE AT SEA, ON LAND, AND IN THE AIR.
WIRELESS IS
INDUSTRY
In the commercial and industrial world, wireless
is of national importance, being closely allied
with Australia’s local and overseas trading, the
press, international affairs, aviation, shipping,
and all arms of defence.
The industry was pioneered by Amalgamated
Wireless in 1913, and since then the Company
has been foremost in every phase of its develop-
ment.
Wireless communication services are available to
overseas countries, Papua, New Guinea and Fiji,
to ships and to aircraft.
A.W.A. is wholly self contained in the manu-
facture of every type of wireless equipment, a
factor of national value in times of peace and
invaluable when other conditions obtain.
#
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIOHAL
WIRELESS
ORGANISATION


BANISH PREMATURE
OLD AGE ...
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
WRITE
TO-DAY
T.JONES e
CHEMIST...3I4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
RADIO NEWS.
DON B . KNOCK'S PAGES.
Coupling Concentric Feed
Lines to the Receiver.
Most modern communications receivers
are so designed that the input impedance
is from 300 to 500 ohms. This also
applies to factory-built pre-selectors.
These figures represent quite a high im-
peaance, into which a low-impedance
line, such as a coaxial feeder, must work.
A mismatch that such a condition would
present would be, on an average, 64, 34,
28 or 13 to 300-500 ohms, depending on
the ohmic impedance of the cable and
the input impedance of the receiver. The
difficulty can quite easily be overcome by
the use of an auto transformer to couple
the two impedances.
The writer has found the transformer
pictured in Fig. 1 to be highly satisfac-
tory. It gives surprising signal strength
gains—Ss signals are generally boosted
to S 9 and some receiver attenuation may
be necessary. Results obtained when
using a vertical coaxial 56mc. aerial with
Bassett concentric cable feed of 64 ohms
on a commercial communications re-
ceiver were rather disappointing when
first erected. The auto transformer was
tried on this band with a slight improve-
ment. However, it soon became apparent
that the recommended design was not
beneficial below 10 metres, and a better
matching means was sought for 56mc.
operations.
It is well known that the impedance of
a quarter-wave section of parallel copper
rods, known as a linear transformer, when
spaced the calculated distance, will result
in an algebraic mean between the im-
pedance at one end of the rods and the
impedance at the other end. The for-
mula for this calculation is to be found
with examples in the Radio Amateur’s
Handbook. By this means it is possible
to match, say, 500 ohms into 64 ohms
by merely varying the spacing between
the quarter-wave rods until the signals
are at maximum strength. When this
distance is found a pair of insulating
clamps should be made to keep the rods
at the correct spacing for all times. In
the writer’s case the spacing is lfin.
between centres.
The use of the linear transformer
brought local 56mc. signals up from S 5
to SB/9, and is considered a vital
coupling component to the receiver. Fig.
2 shows the design of the transformer.
VK3ML.
Amateur Chatter.
The report that M.L. is to have tele-
vision transmissions in action in the near
future is of great interest to the Australian
amateur. Establishment of a television
service across the Tasman should pro-
vide a sorely-needed impetus for Aus-
tralia. A station operating regularly on
42mc. in M.L. would also provide a signal
for VK u.-h.-f. men to look for. Recep-
tion in Australia of such a signal would
give a possible guide to VK-ZL com-
munication on 56mc.
To give country men an idea of the
reliability of 56mc. communication
around Sydney, an unusual relay was
undertaken on the morning of 23/7/’39.
When VK2WI commenced the W.I.A.
broadcast on 7200 kc. at 11 a.m.,
the transmission was rebroadcast on
56,134 kc. by VK2IQ. The 56mc. trans-
mission was received at VK2NO, and
then again rebroadcast on 7050 kc., and
56mc. ’phone from VK2NO was subse-
quently rebroadcast on the 7mc. band
by VK2IQ. A call from VK2AKP,
Moree, N.S.W., equipped with a 56mc.
converter and amateur-band receiver, re-
quested C.W. transmission by Sydney
stations on 56mc., as an unidentified
signal had been observed. Accordingly
VKs 2IQ, 2WJ and 2NO worked on
schedule, but nothing was heard. The
unidentified signal was subsequently
attributed to a phantom signal from the
I.F. channel in the receiver used with the
converter. There were only three 56mc.
active in Sydney that evening. During
tests with the Sky-Raider communica-
tions receiver the 80-metre band was
explored. There in full force were VKs
2LZ, 2HZ and 2VN, so VK2NO also
migrated to that band. Active at intervals
on this very useful band are to be found
VKs 2HC, 2NS, 2XQ and others. At
present the VK-ZL contest is in full
swing, so that the C.W. men are hard put
to it to attract attention.
In U.S.A., A.R.R.L. has requested the
F.C.C. to permit duplex transmission on
112mc. and higher frequencies. It is
rather surprising to note that special per-
mission must be obtained in U.S.A. for
such communication, the practice being
taken for granted by VKs on any band.
In England amateurs are permitted to
work under the same rules for duplex as
for one-way transmissions. They may
transmit for ten-minute periods during
any four hours of the day, but each
period of transmission must be followed
by a minimum of three minutes’ listening.
Quite a song and dance has been made
of the removal of Radio Mondiale
from the 7mc. band. Any early morning
in eastern VK, broadcasters between 7200
and 7300 kc. are running to R 8 from
European sources. It seems futile to
have removed temporarily a station which
appeared before September this year, as
from that, month it is an “open go.”
Amateur radio was ridden over rough-
shod at Cairo. The “Flam” loses, and
will go on losing until he make a real
stand.
An English amateur puts forward an
interesting theory of u.-h.-f. communica-
tion in “T. and R. Bulletin”:
This might explain the “freak” results
achieved at these low wave-lengths. Though
such results have been rare, they are too
numerous to be dismissed as freaks, and I am
not satisfied with any explanation based on
abnormal ionisation. Normally these waves
are not reflected back to earth in the useful
manner characteristic of waves of longer length,
nor probably are they absorbed or scattered,
though they may be refracted, at the various
reflecting surfaces. Consequently they travel
away from the earth, not excluding even the
ground wave which leaves at a tangent.
This has always appeared a drawback, and
high angle radiation has been ignored, even
though reflection from other bodies must occa-
sionally bring them, back to earth. In suggest-
ing that this is the explanation of freak re-
ception on u.-s.-w., I am not ignoring the
immensity of the distance in a return journey
even to the moon. Normally rays which are
reflected back are too weak to produce any
response, owing to the limits of sensitivity ot
our receivers, but when reflection is due to one
of our companions in the solar system freak
reception should be possible. The reflecting
properties of the sun may be problematical, but
a surface of volcapic ash such as exists on the
moon might make a good reflector, while Venus
offers an excellent surface by virtue of the
clouds of water vapor by which it is completely
surrounded.
As these waves have been called quasi-optical,
a reference to light waves will show that the
disturbances are not necessarily excessive. The
amount of blue and violet light received from
the sun diminishes rapidly with a decrease in
its altitude, while the longer waves of red
and particularly of infra-red are unaffected.
This is caused by the additional score or so or
miles necessitated by an oblique passage through
our atmosphere. The 90 million miles of free
space are insignificant compared with our
atmospheric envelope of a few miles.
If then the shorter waves of wireless radia-
tion are subject to the same discrimination,
their failure to cover long distances within the
limits of the upper reaches of the stratosphere
is explained. DX is only possible by a direct
route through the atmosphere taken by rays
at high angles to the earth’s surface. As the
return journey to the moon would only take
2jr seconds, the time lag could escape observa-
tion. Even if the moon or the sun were not at
its zenith, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter,
Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto are also
possible suspects, though the margin of error
is smaller, owing to the small angle they sub-
tend to us.
I have erected a high angle radiator and
hope soon to throw a misearble 10 watts verti-
cally upwards. Perhaps they will never re-
turn, but can anyone prove it without trial?
The G will be interested to learn that
three years ago a ZL got the same idea,
and used a 500-watt transmitter with
radiator beamed on the moon. A re-
ceiver was used some little distance away
with the object of hearing the reflected
signal impulses. Nothing was heard, but
the idea seems worth further investigation.
VK2NO.
“Oyez”: I recently made a T.R.F. high-
fidelity receiver for a friend, and during
my absence in the country trouble de-
veloped. First thing the user of the set
did was to visit the nearest dealer. A
youth popped the valves, one after an-
other, into an impressive-looking gadget
with a large indicator, and convinced the
seeker of information that “all the valves
were weak, around 55 to 60 p.c.” Fortu-
nately, the set-user awaited my return.
Those valves had been purchased only
two weeks previously, and when I tested
them they all showed 100 p.c. Trouble
lay elsewhere in the receiver circuit.
When in doubt about them, get your
valves tested at the headquarters of a
large and reputable valve agent if
possible.
WORLD-WIDE RADIO PREFIXES
Country. Prefix.
Aden
AZgean Islands
Afghanistan’ YA
Alaska K 7
Albania ZA
Aldabra Islands
Algeria FA
Andaman Islands
Andorra
Anglo-Egyptian Sudan ST
Angola !..., CR6
Argentina LU
Ascension Island ZDB
Australia VK
Azores Islands CT2
Bahama Islands VP7
Bahrien Islands VSB
Baker Island, Howland Island,
Am. Phoenix Islands KF6
Balearic Islands EA6
Baluchistan
Barbados VP6
Bechuanaland
Belgian Congo OQ
Belgium ON
Bermuda Islands VP9
Bhutan
Bolivia CP
Borneo, Netherlands PKS
Brazil PY
British Honduras VPI
British North Borneo VS4
Brunei
Bulgaria LZ
Burma XZ
Cameroons, French FEB
Canada VE
Canal Zone (K 5)
Canary Islands EAB
Cape Verde Islands CR4
Caroline Islands
Cayman Islands VPS
Celebes and Molucca Islands PK6
Ceylon VS7
Chagos Islands VQB
Channel Islands G
Chile CE
China XU
Chosen (Korea) J 8
Christmas Island ZC3
Clipperton Island
Cocos Island TI
Cocos Islands ZC2
Colombia HJ
Comoro Islands
Cook Islands ZKI
Corsica
Costa Rica TI
Crete SV
Cuba CM-CO
Cyprus ZC4
Czechoslovakia OK
Danzig YM
Denmark OZ
Dominican Republic HI
Easter Island
Ecuador HC
Country. Prefix.
Egypt SU
England G
Eritrea
Estonia ES
Ethiopia ET
Faeroes, The OY
Falkland Islands VPB
Fanning Island VR3
Federated Malay States ... VS2
Fiji Islands VR2
Finland OH
France F
French Equatorial Africa .. FQB
French India FN
French Indo-China FIB
French Oceania .. FOB
French West Africa FFB
Fridtjof Nansen Land {Franz
Josef Land) *..
Galapagos Islands
Gambia ZD3
Germany D
Gibraltar ZB2
Gilbert and Ellice Islands and
Ocean Island VRI
Goa (Portuguese India) .... CRB
Gold Coast (and British
Togoland) ZD4
Gough Island
Greece SV
Greenland OX
Guadeloupe FGB
Guam v KB6
Guatemala TG
Guiana, British VP3
Guiana, Netherlands (Suri-
nam) PZ
Guiana, French and Inini .. FYB
Guinea, Portuguese CRS
Guinea, Spanish
Haiti HH
Hawaiian Islands K 6
Hejaz HZ
Honduras HR
Hong Kong VS6
Hungary HA
Iceland TF
Ifni
India VU
Iran (Persia) EP
Iraq (Mesopotamia) Yl
Ireland, Northern Gf
Irish Free State El
Isle of Man G
Italy 1
Jamaica VPS
Jan Mayen Island OY
Japan J
Jarvis Island, Palmyra Group KG6
Java PK
Johnston Island KE6
Kenya VQ4
Kerguelen Islands
Kuweit
Laccadive Islands
Latvia YL
Leeward Islands VP2
Country. Prefix.
Liberia EL
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania LY
Luxembourg LX
Macau CR9
Madagascar FBB
Madeira Islands CT3
Maidive Islands VS9
Malta ZBI
Manchukuo (MX)
Marianas Islands
Marshall Islands J 9
Martinique FMB
Mauritius VQB
Mexico XE
Midway Island KD6
Miquelon and St. Pierre
Islands FPB
Monaco
Mongolia
Morocco, French CN
Morocco, Spanish EA9
Mozambique CR7
Nepal
Netherlands PA
Netherlands West Indies
(Curasao) PJ
New Caledonia FKB
Newfoundland and Labra-
dor VO
New Guinea, Netherlands .. PK6
New Guinea, Territory of.. VK9
New Hebrides FUB, YJ
New Zealand ZL
Nicaragua YN
Nicobar Islands
Nigeria (British Cameroons) ZD2
Niue ZK2
Non-Federated Malay States VS3
Norway LA
Nyasaland ZD6
Oman
Palau (Pelew) Islands
Palestine ZC6
Panama HP
Papua Territory VK4
Paraguay ZP
Peru OA
Philippine Islands KA
Phoenix Islands
Pitcairn Island VR6
Poland SP
Portugal CT
Principe and Sao Thome
Islands
Puerto Rico K 4
Reunion Island PRB
Rhodesia, Northern VQ2
Rhodesia, Southern ZE
Rio de Oro
Rumania YR
St. Helena ZD7
Salvador YS
Sardinia
Samoa, American KH
Country. Prefix.
Samoa, Western ZM
Sarawak VSS
Saudi Arabia
Scotland GM
Seychelles VQ9
Siam HS
Sierra Leone ZDI
Socotra
Solomon Islands VR4
Somaliland, British ... . VQ6
Somaliland, French FLB
Somaliland, Italian
South Georgia VPB
South Orkney Islands VPB
South Shetland Islands .... VPB
South-west Africa ZS3
Soviet Union:
European Russian Socialist
Federated Soviet Repub-
lic Ul-3-4-7
White Russian Soviet
Socialist Republic U 2
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic U 5
Transcaucasian Socialist
Federal Soviet Republic U 6
Uzbek Soviet Socialist Re-
public (Uzbekistan) .... U 8
Turkoman Soviet Socialist
Republic i U 8
Asiatic Russian S.F.-S.R. U 9-0
Spain EA
Straits Settlements VSI
Sumatra PK4
Svalbard (Spitzbergen) ....
Sweden SM
Switzerland HB
Syria *
Taiwan (Formosa) J 9
Tanganyika Territory VQ3
Tangier Zone
Tannu Tuva
Tasmania VK7
Tibet
Timor, Portuguese CRIO
Togoland, French FDB
Tokelau (Union) Islands ....
Tonga (Friendly) Islands .. VRS
Transjordan ZCI
Trinidad and Tobago VP4
Tristan da Cunha ZU9
Tunisia FT4
Turkey .' TA
Turks and Caicos Islands . VPS
Uganda VQS
Union of South Africa .... ZS
United States W (N)
Uruguay CX
Venezuela YV
. Virgin Islands KB4
Wake Group KC6
Wales GW
Windward Islands VP2
Wrangel Island
Yemen
Yugoslavia YT-YU
Zanzibar VQI
Blank spaces indicate those not vet allocated.


e»e
INCREASE TO
YOUR SALES
IS THROUGH
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth .. . 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
EMPIRE BROADCASTING SERVICE.
The following frequencies have been notified for use by the Empire station
at Daventry:
TRANSMISSION T.
Area Served.
GSI .. Oceania, New Zealand
GSD .. Western Canada
GSD .. Australia, New Zealand
GSB .. New Zealand
GSB .. Australia
TRANSMISSION 2.
GSJ .. India, Malaya, W. Australia,
West Indies
GSH .. Africa
GSV .. Far East
GSG .. India, Malaya, Australia
GSF .. India, Malaya, Australia
GRX .. Non-directional
TRANSMISSION 3.
GSJ .. India, Malaya, W. Australia,
West Indies
GSH .. Africa
GSV (to 4 p.m.) .. Far East
GSG .. India, Malaya, W. Australia
GSF .. India, Malaya, W. Australia
GRX .. Non-directional
TRANSMISSION 4.
Area Served.
5.25 —9 p.m.
GSG (to 6.35 p.m.) .. Africa
GSG (from 6.40 p.m.) .. Canada
GSP (from 6.15 p.m.) .. Africa
GSD .. Africa
GRX .. Non-directional
GSC (from 7 p.m.) .. East Africa
GSC (from 6.30 p.m.) .. Africa
GSA .. Non-directional
9.20 —11 p.m.
GSP .. Canada, North America
GSO .. South America
GSF .. West Indies
GSD .. Canada, North America
GRX .. Non-directional
GSC .. Africa
GSA .. Non-directional
TRANSMISSION 5.
GSE .. South America
GSD .. Canada, North America
GSB .. Canada, North America
GSB .. West Indies, India, Malaya
GSB .. South America
TRANSMISSION 6.
GSD .. Western Canada
GSC .. Western Canada
GSB .. Canada, North America
GSB . . West Indies
GSB .. South America
News bulletins in foreign languages:
Weekdays —
-7.15 p.m FRENCH
Short waves only
Short waves only
Short waves only
Medium and short waves
Medium and short waves
Medium and short waves
Short waves only
Short waves only
7.30 p.m GERMAN
7.45 p.m ITALIAN
9.0 p.m. FRENCH
9.15 p.m GERMAN
9.45 p.m ITALIAN
10.0 p.m PORTUGUESE
10.15 p.m. . . , . . SPANISH
Sundays —
As on weekdays, except that the French bulletin at 9 p.m. is broadcast on short waves
only and the second German bulletin begins 15 minutes later, at 9.30 p.m.
Short wave-lengths —
GRX 9.69mc 30.96 m.
GSA .. .. 6.05mc. .. . . .. 49.59 m.
Medium wave-lengths —
-267.4m., 296.2 m., 342.1 m., 373.1 m., 449.1 m.
LATIN-AMERICAN TRANSMISSION—II.2S p.m.-2.20 a.m.
GSO .. .. South America
GSC .. .. Central America
ARABIC TRANSMISSION—S.I7 p.m.-6.15 p.m. (approx.)
GSP .. .. North Africa
GSP .. .. Near East
All times are given in Greenwich Mean Time.
All programme details are given in Greenwich Mean Time. Correct to Local
Time as follows:
* During period of New Zealand
CEYLON
CHINA
EGYPT .. ..
HONG KONG
INDIA
IRAQ
KENYA
MALAYA ..
*NEW ZEALAND
NIGERIA
PALESTINE
SIERRA LEONE ..
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA
U.S.A. (See Canada)
Summer Time add 12 hours.
“BULLETIN” TEST REVIEW.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of attention
are tested and given an unbiased report in this section.)
Sky-raider DX9 Superhet Communications Receiver.
The so-called “communications” type
receiver was for a long time obtainable
only in America. Because of the vast
interest in public short-wave reception
American radio engineers were able to
concentrate on the production of special
receivers. The communications type were
necessarily “custom-built” ; at first they
could not be mass-produced. But, as
short-wave radio technique has advanced,
manufacturers, both American and Eng-
lish, have put out a number of high-
class receivers which a few years ago
would have been too costly to produce.
Even so, by the time customs duties
and freight have been tacked on to the
f.o.b. price some American productions
run to between £lOO and £250 in Aus-
tralia. Australian radio factories, busy
supplying good general-purpose duai-
wavers at prices only possible by cheese-
paring in manufacturing costs, have shied
clear of the communications-type re-
ceiver. One plea has been that of in-
sufficient demand ; another that the retail
price would need to be so high that few
would be interested.
That the production of a communica-
tions receiver of Australian design, fully
the equal of overseas jobs, and at a
reasonable price, is practicable is proved
by the very fine receiver illustrated. The
Reliance DX9 comunications superhet,
from Reliance Radio, Reliance House, 14
Barrack-street, Sydney, is the first
attempt by an Australian manufacturer
to produce something with all the quali-
fications of a “communications type.”
Having thoroughly tested its quality the
writer considers it quite the equal of
many American jobs that would sell here
at three times the price. An experienced
short-wave radio engineer can tell at a
glance just what standard of radio engi-
neering has gone into a receiver by the
general appearance and attention to
detail. This receiver looks an exceedingly
high-quality job, and it performs as well
as it looks.
It is a nine-valve 240-volt A.C.-
powered superheterodyne, covering, with
high efficiency, all waves from eight to
125 metres on the short-wave channels
and, if desired, up to the broadcast range.
Wave-change is by plug-in coils. There
are three coils for each range, with the
windings totally enclosed in a solid
moulded casing. Thus handling the coils
cannot injure the windings. Coils are in-
dividually padded. Evidence of the care
taken in construction is seen in the por-
tion enclosing the coil mountings. Metal
partitions are spot-welded in place with
a tight-fitting lid. There is no noise from
metal surfaces rubbing together ; helping
to ensure a noise level strikingly low for
such a comprehensive receiver.
The valves are: 6D6 R.F. amplifier
on all frequencies, 6L7G mixer with 6D6
oscillator, 6D6 first I.F. stage, 6D6 second
I.F. stage, 687 S diode detector-A.V.C.
and driver A.F. stage, 687 S beat fre-
quency oscillator and R meter amplifier,
6V6 beam power output stage to 2500-
ohm speaker, and 80 rectifier. Inter-
mediate frequency is 465 kc., with per-
meability tuning of transformers.
The controls comprise the handset con-
denser gang, operated by pointer knob
and graduated scale, bandspreader with
Eddystone dual-ratio tuning dial, re-
generation (on R.F. stage), tone control—
which incorporates speech switch, 8.F.0.
On-Off switch, A.V.C. On-Off switch,
8.F.0. pitch control, I.F. sensitivity and
audio volume control. A flush-type
microammeter is mounted on the panel,
which with the whole chassis is chromium
plated, and this signal-strength meter can
be set for individual calibration accord-
ing to the operator’s sense of audible
strength values. The meter is also a
visual tuning indicator. At the side of
the chassis are headphone terminals, with
speaker plug socket at the rear. Three
aerial terminals are provided, two for
doublet connection and a jumper to one
from earth when a plain aerial is used.
The coils are identified by colored dots
on the moulding.
' In action the receiver is delightful.
Once the station positions or band loca-
tions are noted on the handset control,
calibration is an easy matter, and,
although there are plenty of control
knobs on the panel, these, when once ad-
justed to the user’s needs, are seldom
touched. The I.F. gain and 8.F.0. con-
trols are the only ones to need checking
occasionally.
Initial tests on the
amateur 40 - metre
band at a period when
conditions were poor
for long-distance com-
munication allowed of
stations in the U.S.A.
and South America
being copied easily
above the background
—something that
could not be done
with an experimental
receiver the writer has
used regularly. South
American amateurs
were heard clearly on
telephony. On the
amateur 20- and 10-
metre bands the per-
formance is ideal, and
one cannot speak too
highly of the full, round quality obtain-
able from the main overseas broadcasters
around 19, 25, 31 and 48 metres. Many
American amateur ’phones were also
logged at night on 75 metres, and recep-
tion of the Siberian broadcaster on 70.2
metres was surprising for strength and
freedom from noise.
Full particulars of price and instalment
terms are obtainable from the makers,
and those in the Sydney area desirous of
hearing one in action may do so at the
writer’s experimental station.
D.B. KNOCK.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Since the last log, by dint of much con-
centration and hard listening, several
previously unknown signals have been
identified. There are plenty more still
to be cleared up. The 11-metre range
has been patchy, being good one day and
with nothing audible next day at the same
hour. Only five stations have been heard
there lately, these being W4XA, W6XKG,
WBXNU, W9XUP and W9XJL. News
at 11.30 a.m. from W4XA is fairly con-
sistent. Night reception is, on the whole,
bad, the 49-metre band being noisy as a
rule, but with KZEG Saigon, KZRH and
ZHJ in evidence. WBXAL is improving,
but still unpleasant to listen to. Stations
heard around 49 metres in the mornings
and identified are: CS2WD 50.2 metres,
RNE 50 metres, RV96, DJC, GSA, ZRH,
ZRK, SBO 49.46 metres, SP4B 48.85
metres, and LKJ. There are four other
stations, two being South Americans and
the others Rome and Manila. Stations in
the 41-metre band are CSW, TPB and
two Spanish-speaking stations. There is
one Oriental, probably a Japanese, and
a Spanish station is heard on 33 metres.
The 31-metre band shows EAQ (heard
once only and probably the station now
on 33 metres), CXAC (a regular at 7 a.m.),
SP3I, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., SBQ (or
SBU), TIPG and TGWA. Good stations
on 25 metres are SBP and HPSA. SPI9
has also been heard twice. At present
XEWW and HI2G are heard, closing at
3 p.m., with LYR on the same wave-
length as HI2G at 4 p.m. It was stated
that LYZ was testing on 15,310 kc., so this
is probably the mystery station heard so
well at 7 p.m. on 19.61 metres. TPZ3 is
heard at 5 p.m., but although the signal
is strong Morse interference rides over it.
WBXK is now very, good at 10 a.m. on
25.27 metres, and announced that antenna
direction is to be changed. Result here
since the change has been a drop of
strength by three points. RNE Moscow
has been heard at all hours of the day
on 25 metres, and is the outstanding
station from 9 a.m. News is given in
English at 2 p.m. No station listed has
been heard under R 6, and quite a number
are at R 9 and over. Of the more recent
arrivals Saigon on 49 metres and W6XBE
on 31.48 metres are probably the strong-
est. There are now so many short-wave
stations that it is a job to keep up with
them. Verifications here now total 160,
and the total logging is near 300, but
reports are not sent to all stations.
K.B.G.
Radio licenses in force in Australia
at the end of June this year totalled
1,131,860. Experimental licenses now
number 2074.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Enclosed is the circuit diagram of a
short-wave receiver I built recently. Would I
get better results by using a 287 as second
detector with A.V.C. plus first audio, removing
the 6N7 and using the 6H6 as noise sup-
pressor? (2) Present speaker is a midget, and
/ prefer the better reproduction from a larger
speaker. In this case would the 287-2A5
sequence be best or would it be better to use
the 6N7 in push-pull? (3) Would the 287
be good enough driver for the 6N7 in Class
B ? (4) The 8.F.0. fails to inject sufficient
voltage on certain ranges. It is true that the
-7 has seen better days, but why should this
a n ec t the R.F. tuning? (5) Regeneration in
the 6U7G R.F. stage is very mild and insuffi-
cient to cause oscillation, but it does seem to
contribute some gain. How can regeneration
be increased? —799.
(1) Yes. (2) Improved reproduction should
be possible with the 6N7 as Class B amplifier.
(3) Another driver after the 287 may be neces-
sary. (4) Replace the 27 by a 56. In any
case a triode 8.F.0. is likely to be unstable
and to cause frequency drift. Better to use
a pentode. (5) Looser aerial coupling should
improve regeneration, otherwise the grid coils
should be tapped higher above earth for in-
creased feedback.
* « * # *
(1) Have had trouble in my receiver, with,
an extra audio stage using a Philips C243N
valve. Good speaker reception is possible at
night time, but after a few minutes volume
begins to fade. It dies away to a whisper, then
increases again. N.S.W. stations are easier to
pick up than Queensland stations, although I
am only 45 miles from one big station and 70
miles from another. The two 45-volt heavy-
duty B batteries, the two-volt accumulator and
4\-volt C battery are all new, as are the 19
and 243 N valves. What is the cause of the
fading and how could it be stopped? (2)
What length of aerial would best suit my
requirements ? —BOO.
(1) From your description the fading appears
to be due to natural reception conditions, unless
it occurs simultaneously on all signals, when it
may be a regeneration control fault. Despite
your proximity to the two stations reception
at night time is likely to be poorer than in
daylight. This occurs in most country loca-
tions, and is an example of medium waves
showing the “skip” properties of short-waves.
(2) The best aerial can be determined only by
trial. Normally a plain wire of 100 ft. length
or more, including lead-in, erected as high as
possible and well insulated, should satisfy all
needs. In some cases it is an advantage to
use a counterpoise underneath the aerial in-
stead of an earth connection. This can consist
of two wires erected fan-wise underneath the
aerial about Bft. above earth, and well insulated.
Length of the two wires can be the same
as the aerial “flat-top” and taken in to the
receiver earth terminal at the point of the V.


%
x "mm
0^
sS exo\e
, , «#>&**?* V*® OSe ,e\v'
&**##£**«"’* *>\*
t'tr- ■"'
>axt
caw
fe° ttoW ■ ..* <* ®r::.a\, *«r; j***
Uc vo^ ea
XSoV" ote „,Vc«
TP*
x Uauu-- uUe - aian v
ovetv
to
ssexo
l 0 cte ottV x S ee dtf®’ a \
fob «P? * <B^ U 9 top ox
rtnoA S a
vuxxxe
ss**<*
'
■
MM
.
£ J
0
* ■'
„<4
y
\ :


The Richardson Chain Hotel
I!
r
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast .. from- 7/6
J^
IcTv
,A^'
■f*
I"
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing a Flock.
“Ghanam”: On small grazing proper-
ties in particular there is often great lack
of method in classing of flocks, and little
system in year-to-year culling and build-
ing up of herds.
The essence of success lies in classing
for type and healthiness and wool growth
and in a rigorous system of culling.
Classing should be done before shearing
when the sheep bear their characters on
their backs. They should be studied not
only for wool but for conformation and
constitution.
The job can be done systematically
and quickly. Look for a broad, strong
head, with a bright eye ; note specially
the nostrils, which should be wide. Note
the mouth and see that teeth meet
properly. Look for wide shoulders.,
slightly arched at the wither, and a long,
deep body which will give a maximum
area on which to grow wool. Back
should be strong and straight and level,
and the rump rounded without any sign
of droop. Underline should be straight
and deep in front, front legs wide apart
and rear ones wide at the hocks. Look
for wrinkly crutches and turn them out
at once—they are the blowfly homes.
Then look to the wool —the ideal is a
good length and good density and color
and evenness of cover over the whole
carcass.
Having got that far, be ruthless in cut-
ting out faulty sheep and constant in
following a breeding line which will keep
the type chosen normal and improving.
The man who chops and changes in his
choice of rams gets nowhere.
MaorilantPs Stud-sheep Exports.
“B-gar”: I can visualise the reception
Maoriland would give any suggestion
from this side to stop stud-sheep exports
(B. 5/7/’39). M.L. graziers have long
concentrated on dual-purpose sheep ; car-
casses are just as important as wool. With
Corriedales from Maoriland firmly estab-
lished in several overseas countries, where
would be the benefit of shutting the gate
now?
It would mean depriving breeders of a
lucrative market without any possible
gain. One shipment of Corriedale and
Romney Marsh sheep sent to Patagonia
in 1926, selected from various studs and
comprising both ewes and rams, was in-
sured for £30,000.
The only possible means to make the
production of the staple a payable pro-
position is for graziers to breed only
from the best.
War on Foxes.
“Bogaduck”: Foxes are always
troublesome at lambing time in parts of
southern Australia. The best preventive
is a fox-proof lambing paddock sur-
rounded by a fence of netting 6ft. high,
with a loose netting overhang or several
strands of barbed wire carried on cross-
arms to make the fence unclimbable. The
only drawback is that it can be used
only in districts where good rainfall and
improved pasture enable all the lambing
ewes to be put in it until the lambs are
big enough to look after themselves. In
poor seasons or in districts where feed is
scarce it is impracticable unless the ewes
are hand-fed. '
The next-best thing is to get busy with
poison baits, dog packs, decoy whistles
and traps in the early autumn, when
tucker is scarce and the foxes are too
poor to range far in search of food or to
be able to get away from the dogs. Once
the young rabbits or lambs provide a
food supply the spotlight and gun at
night is the only remedy.
We use utility trucks fitted with power-
ful spotlights and work in teams of
“Seein' yer 'ands are a bit soft y’ can knock orf when y' get up to the ridge”
three: one to manipulate the light, one
to drive and one to shoot. We place an
empty square 200 gal. water-tank, nor-
mally part of the fire-fighting equipment,
on the tray of the truck and lash it
securely in place. To secure it further,
and to make the truck ride steadier, a
couple of hundredweight of sand is
placed in the bottom of the tank. The
shooter stands in the tank, with the rim
of the manhole reaching to his waist;
this gives him perfect support, but leaves,
his hands free ; he can wheel, to fire in
any direction, and he can.keep the gun
steady enough for accurate shooting even
on rough ground.
The truck is driven around the lamb-
ing ewes about an hour after sunset and
again near midnight; as soon as a fox us
picked up the man using the light keeps
it on the lamb-killer and the driver heads
for it as fast as the nature, of the ground
will let him, steadying down as soon as
the range is short enough. Then every-,
thing depends on the man'with the gun,
but we find that a decent shot, after a
bit of practice, can account for about
60 per cent, in direct kills.
The highest tally to date for a night’s
shooting is 13, and the average is five,
but after a week or so you are lucky to
get one or two. At first we thought this
indicated that the foxes had grown too
cunning to be caught, but the way in
which the losses of lambs have dimin-
ished, together with the fact that so few
can now be heard at night, seems to show
that we have either killed all but odd
ones or that those not shot have been
scared away.
Crossbred Beef.
“Mookau”: Dr. John Hammond, of
the Cambridge Animal Research Insti-
tute, has been saying that Australian
beefbreeders will have to take a point
from the sheepmen if they wish to suc-
ceed in the English market.
He is right. Smithfield prizes for steers
are nearly always taken by Aberdeen
Angus crossbreds, but mixed breeding
need not necessarily be confined to any
specific two breeds, though the Angus
has the qualities which put body, short-
ness of leg and squareness into a carcass.
Hammond was struck by the possi-
bilities of Australian dairying districts
for beef production. He saw here, he says,
culled Illawarra cows mated with good
beef bulls and producing first-class ten-
months-old weaners which he looked on
as excellent export carcasses. He advo-
■ cates a liaison between the beefbreeder
and the dairyman.
So long as the idea is confined to the
Illawarra producing districts, it is good.
The Illawarras themselves were bred
•from the greatest strains of Bates and
Booth, which, in the slump in the beef
business which followed the great boom
of the seventies of last century, found
their way in droves to the country be-
tween the Shoalhaven and Bulli. There,
choice Townley Butterflies and Booth
Robin Hoods became small farmers’
cattle, and their progeny can be recog-
nised to the present day.
Save Your Bacon.
“Pappamosca”: A careless flick with a
whip can make a first-clas pig carcass
second-rate.
Wrong lifting is another way to
damage a pig. Grip Dennis firmly by the
near hind leg below the hock with the
right hand, then support the front of him
with hand and forearm under the breast,
passing between his front legs. If he is
too heavy to handle in this way, try lock-
ing both arms around his chest just be-
hind the forelegs.
No whips or sticks should be allowed
near sale pigs, and animals which are to
be trucked should first be classed so that
each truck will hold stock all of a size.
And loading races are essential —they do
away with handling and bruising almost
entirely.
Zinc Sulphate on Cereals.
“Curlew”: In 1936 the Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture conducted ex-
periments on C. P. Dahlenberg’s farm at
Nhill to control eelworm and root-rot
disease of cereals.
Zinc sulphate gave surprising results.
General growth and depth of color were
outstanding; maturity was speeded up
by about a fortnight, and 311 b. of zinc
sulphate with 1051 b. of super, gave about
nine bushels per acre more than did
super, alone.
As the zinc can be bought at 2d. per
pound, the cost was about 65., or Bd. per
bushel on the excess grain. Root de-
velopment was good, though no differ-
ence in eelworm infestation was noted.
Root-rot lesions were less severe, though
cultures gave growths of seven different
fungi.
Further experiments the following year
showed that zinc sulphate alone had no
beneficial effects, but 151 b. and 301 b.
with super, again showed good results.
Similar results were obtained with Mulga
oats, but at Walpeup, on new ground,
practically no improved yields were ob-
tained with either 151 b. or 301 b. zinc.
Baking tests, of zinc-grown wheats
showed no appreciable differences from
similar varieties grown free from zinc.
Last year, owing largely to drought, re-
sults were not so positive. It appears


3
'Af\
AWT
is
2933.
Ideal far Hard Country Wear
A full brogued Shoe made witH imported Scotch. Zebu Leather. Heavy
double sole and welted heel with good quality leather back linings.
Stocked in full and half sizes in medium fittings. PRICE 37/6.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe"
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
INCREASE YOUR PROPERTIES’
EARNING CAPACITY
m
7 .
9K* '•
; ,v
USE CONCRETE
ELIMINATE RECURRING MAINTENANCE COSTS'
METHOD OF MAKING CONCRETE LEAKING TANKS CONQUERED
CONCRETE FENCE POSTS WITH CONCRETE
CONCRETE SILOS CONCRETE FOR FARMS
WRITE TO US OR ANY CEMENT CO. FOR THE ABOVE BOOKLETS
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT MANUFACTURERS
ASSOCIATION
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON STREET, SYDNEY.
82471.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
f
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM— ARRROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It—AutoniaUc^ Overflow Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold —Shell Co., 6-1 Repeat
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Aeents all States.
•1
that some soils and districts respond
more generously to zinc dressings. Pos-
sibly zinc dressings will give good re-
sults with potatoes, which are particularly
susceptible to fungus attacks.
Electric Fencing.
“Ghanam”: Electric fencing, improved
in efficiency, seems to have come to stay.
Wires must be 12 or 14 gauge x 6,
barbed, and are usually best placed at
6in., 16in. and 38in. from the ground,
completely insulated. The only heavy
posts needed are end posts, which
should be put in solidly, and though
wires must be taut it is unnecessary
to strain them as in ordinary fences.
Best intermediate posts are galvanised-
steel standards. From two to five per
chain are needed, according to the lie
of the land. Egg insulators are used on
the end posts, and on intermediate posts
cup insulators. If the posts are wooden,
nail the insulator on with a leather pad
between insulator and the nail head. With
iron standards bolt the insulator on,
separated from the post by a leather or
lubber washer—old tyres cut up make
good washers. Rustproof the bolt before
using. In dips, lay the barbed wire under
the insulator, on rises over it. Tie on
tightly with binding wire.
The controllers need to be spaced at
every five miles. The power supply is a
six-volt battery—a car accumulator
makes a good one —and the voltage is
stepped up by transformer to 110 volts.
A trickle charger—costing upwards from
£3 10s. —is a good buy. Without boosting
of the battery, current for five miles of
fence will cost not more than 10s. p.a.;
with occasional boosting, perhaps 3s.
There is no discharge from the battery,
save when wires are earthed when stock
makes contact with them.
Material for an electric fence should
not cost more than 6s. or 7s. a chain at
the outside. There are no strainers ; posts
are at longer intervals than in a normal
fence. No footing is needed in dips and
there is less wear and tear, since stock do
not rub against an electric wire after one
lesson. Gates are simply three wires or
more on battens, with the current carried
overhead on a high line from one side of
the entry to the other.
Take care when buying the controller
to secure one with a flash lamp, which
gives variable strength of shock for sig-
nalling faults.
For temporary subdivisions with small
animals one or two wires will do the job.
Hints for the Farm.
“Willeroo”: Morning hurry in harnes-
sing up without grooming is the cause of
many sore shoulders on farm horses.
Dried sweat, which contains grit, is irri-
tating, and leads to the development of
tendet spots. To save time, brush the
shoulders, and also wipe the collars when
the horses are unharnesed.
“John O’G.”: Better than arsenic (B.
5/7/’39) for keeping sheepskins from
weevils is one tablespoonful of Cooper’s
dipping powder mixed with one pint of
water. The skin should be laid on a
flat surface in a shed protected from sun.
To paint a skin all over with arsenic
is always dangerous. The mixture men-
tioned can be made up as it’s required.
“Ploto”: Sometimes it is necessary to
yoke two horses of unequal strength on
the same swingletree. Unless the leverage
is adjusted the stronger horse will appear
to do all the work, though the seemingly
unwilling one really bears more than its
share. Before yoking up take out the
centre hook and reset it two or three
inches nearer to the stronger animal.
“E.V.”: To cure ringworm in cattle,
remove scabs with warm soap and water,
dry off, and apply iodine or methylated
spirits or kerosene. Take care in handling
-—humans can contract the disease from
animals.
Bone-chewing can usually
be cured. Where stock are watered at
troughs, give six drams of phosphoric
acid to every 10 gallons of water. Add a
bran-and-chaff ration. On large holdings
try a lick of two parts sterilised bonemeal
to one of coarse salt, with a little molasses
to give the medicine a taste.
“Jayem”: Before cementing a leaky
tank, clean it of mud and rust inside and
out. Punch holes in the walls about 12in.
apart, and put lin. wire netting around
both inside and out, the bottom layer
overlapping the walls about 6in. Lace
both layers through the holes with fine
tie-wire. Cement the bottom of large
tanks first, overlapping the walls about
6in. Allow cement to harden before
plastering the walls. Brush on a neat
cement wash before plastering to pro-
vide a bond between tank and plaster.
Make a mixture of one part of cement
and two parts of fine clean sand, with
just enough water for a stiff but work-
able mix. Apply to a thickness of half
an inch. When almost hard, score the
surface to give a bond for the next coat.
Allow each coat to harden. Damp-cure
for two days. Thoroughly moisten each
coat before applying the succeeding coat.
Start at the bottom and work up. Don’t
use the tank for at least seven days after
the job is completed. A 1000-gallon tank
will hold 80 gallons less when cemented.
“Mt. Boppy”: To check attacks by
caterpillars on pastures use a poison bait
made of 241 b. of bran, ilb. of arsenate
of soda, ilb. of salt and lib. of treacle
or molasses. Mix the ingredients in
water (2gal. to 3gal.) sufficient to make a
crumbly mass. Spread the mixture
around the outside edges of grass where
caterpillars are operating. Keep stock
away from the treated pastures for a few
days or until rain has fallen.
“Mullengah”: If a newly-born foal
won’t suck the mare, hold the youngster
up to the teat and squirt some of the milk
into its mouth. It is important that the
foal should get the first milk. If the foal
does not, or cannot, take to the teat at
once, milk the mare and give the milk to
the foal from a bottle. A normal foal
should make for the teat within an hour
of birth, or soon after it is able to stand.
“Observer”: Toole Bros., one of the
pioneering farming families of Tarana
(N.S.W.), have grown a 20-ton crop of
swedes on 10 acres. Weights were for
clean-trimmed roots. Graziers in New
England and Monaro, who have gone
in extensively for swedes for winter feed
for sheep, struck a dry summer season
for early growth, and also aphis trouble.
“X.T.”: Capeweed can be a thorough
pest once it gets a start. Although
cattle will eat the weed when young, they
never graze it closely, and it springs up
continually from seeds which it scatters
profusely. Best cure is continual mow-
ing before the seeding stage.
“Chelwood”: The backblocks aren’t
completely cluttered up with imbecile
Dads and Daves. In the Vic. eastern
Mallee, Arthur Brain, a wheat-farmer at
Curyo, was helpless with rheumatoid
arthritis. His neighbors in the Birchip
district organised a working bee and arc
working his 900 acres for him until he is
well enough to get behind a plough. On
one day 70 men took turns on the ploughs
and tractors, and finished a 220-acre pad-
dock between 7 a.m. and 4 p.m. They
didn’t even stop to change teams. Women
provided lunch for off-shift workers, and
local publicans added their contribution
generously. Crippled Arthur Brain sat
watching his neighbors bog in from his
wheel chair perched on a lorry ; 15 four-
furrowed ploughs behind 15 tractors soon
tore through the 220-acre paddock. In
the cities a man in Brain’s position might
have landed in Queer-street. Few would
have known or worried about his plight.
In the bush they usually translate fellow-
feeling into practical action.
“Weed”: The Maoriland Department
of Agriculture has been giving extensive
attention to the control of ragwort, which
has spread like wildfire in some districts,
and notably at Waikato. It has been
found that when the weed is pulled at
flowering stage a 55 to 65 per cent, con-
trol can be established. The method,
however, is economic only when the pest
is scattered. Pulling of rosettes was tried,
but in' the rosette stage the roots are
vigorous and sprout easily. Pulling is
inclined to spread the plants. When
flowering, however, the stalks give a
better handgrip, and the soil is usually
more friable.
“Q.C.R.”: About 29,700 acres of Man-
eroo (C.Q.) have been resumed and will
be ballotted for on September 7 at Long-
reach, which is about 40 miles away.
Grasses are Mitchell, button and Flinders,
and carrying capacity is about one sheep
to four acres. The country is good
for fattening and woolgrowing, but
only moderate breeding country. The
property is completely fenced, and is
ready for immediate stocking. It has
several good waterholes and a tank of
about 17,500 cubic yards. Rent has been
fixed at 2±d. per acre.
“Observer”: The most successful grass
“find” in N.S.W. in recent years is the
drought-resistant Giant Panic, a species
indigenous to north-western Australia.
Tried out at Trangie Experiment Farm
during the last two or three years in
driest periods it was the only green grass
in the plots. Farmers and graziers in N. S.
Wales central plains and the outer south-
west who had small trial lots also found
that it stood up to dry spells better than
any other native species. It has a
vigorous root system and makes good
growth when other grasses brown off.
The seed is readily viable, and, unlike
most native species, it germinates freely
under spring and summer rainfall con-
ditions.
“C. G. Salis”: Admittedly galvanised
burr (B. 19/7/’39) is more easily removed
from wool than some other burrs, but its
presence affects the yield, and buyers are
always likely to err in their own favor
when estimating. The sharp spines, too,
make handling burry sheep difficult. Its
efficacy as a controller of soil-erosion
is open to doubt. It becomes brittle in
dry weather and a breeze will break it
off at the ground and blow it for miles.
The only good point I have noticed dbout
the thing is that its color makes it easily
distinguishable.


SUPERB FOR A HOLIDAY
★
LAPSTONE HOTEL
Here is service and cuisine that compares with
the world’s best . . . here, too, is everything
the most discriminating guest can demand . . .
Private Swimming Pool, Private Golf Course,
Brilliant Ballroom, Billiard Room, Library,
Tennis Courts, together with a feature that no other
hotel in the world can offer . . . “The Million Acre
Panorama View” ... a breathtaking vista of the
glorious Nepean .Valley.
Only one hour’s drive from Sydney. Special Winter
Tariff from £4/4/- weekly. From 15/- daily.
Now Under Distinctive Management
LAPSTONE HOTEL
City Booking Office: No. 38 Martin Place. ’Phone: 8W1553.
Telegrams and Cables: “LAPSTONE,” Glenbrook.
Management: J. P. CROWE.
PHYSICAL CULTURE
■ ■■ i
' 1 ; _
K
m
E ::
mmi
«
i
m
in
V :
MEN
WOMEN
CHILDREN
BJELKE - PETERSEN
112 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Australia's oldest , largest and most modern Physical Culture
Institution.
The continued growth of our School has decided us to extend
our activities to country centres.
Schools and Clubs, etc., are advised to WRITE US NOW
for information regarding Classes and Special Teachers’
Course.
We now give instruction to 12,000 pupils weekly.
The Early Bird Catches Them
Sqa^is
EARLY BIRD
Drencher
Is a precision instrument with a dose range of from 5 c.c. to
one ounce. It is built to withstand the corrosive action of
bluestone and all other drenches.
The Early Bird holds just on a quart, and
It Drenches
It Sprays
It Jets
Price, 55 r -
Complete with
Drenching and
Spraying Nozzles.
Obtainable everywhere.
Manufactured by
SAYERS, ALLPORT Pty., Ltd., 53-55 Macquarie St., Sydney.
-
m
HI
: - ■
m
i ■ i
HI
:
■
V
w
;
. ■ Wim!s& I
ill
Ml
.
■
This popular Chapman Cabin
Launch will open up (or you a
new world of adventure. Cruise
where you will without the restric-
tions of motoring.
These Special Terms mean imme-
diate delivery of this sturdily-
built, comfortable Cabin Launch.
The spacious cabin provides sleep-
ing accommodation for two. Just
the craft for happy picnics, keen
fishing, a cruise-camp holiday.
Powered with a famous Chapman
Master Pup Engine of 3 h.p.
Speed 6 to 7 miles per hour.
CHAPMAN &
SHERACK
26 Clara Street,
ERSKINEVIUE, N.S.W. L 3351
Vou ltan Area lei «
-ce p , £
tZ lo »°d yOUt - kuTu***
£*•?>
C ° sts leZ SO _ tn Sm e
£ycl e to Ss than P S -~.
f°* furtU*' Un - ty l -b tnot ° t ''
an7 Pens 'vT -*? cts of ?°»
t d °PeZ, n *s tn h ° w
La «nc h te aCh ° v »
CA a Pni


SHORTHAND
You will learn Dutton Shorthand completely in
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 w.p.m. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson free without obligation.
DUTTON SHORTHAND (N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1644 P, Wellington, N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.'; ffm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
J dices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
cnis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general hanking business.
m
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants.
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, English, lecturer, organising ability,
some journalistic exp., seeks position in Sydney.
—4249.
Young man, Sydney, would like to invest
capital in small manufacturing business likely
to expand.—42so.
Young man, Sydney, journalist, seeks posi-
tion. —4220. . .
Partner, man or woman, for artistic venture
in Sydney.—4lBs.
To buy Tenison-Woods's North Australia or
any early books, pamphlets or reports dealing
with the Northern Territory.—42o7.
To buy or borrow handbook for 1928 Dodge
Senior Six.—42ol.
To buy Jasrahland Jingles, by E. G. (‘"Dry-
blower”) Murphy.—422s.
To buy engraving “Mutineers Turning Bligh
Adrift in the Open Boat.” —4199.
To buy Scapegoat of the Empire, by Whitton.
—4194.
To buy holey dolar, also sea shells. —4178.
Drummer-boy (17) in British Army in India
would like to correspond with young Aus-
tralians. (To Boy E. Pethers, 2nd Welsh Regi-
ment, Akbar Barracks, Agra, U.P., India.)
Words of poem “Vagabond House,” by Don
Blanding.—4l74.
Information Sought.
(1) How long did the Spanish civil war last ?
(2) When did Great Britain recognise the Franco
Government as the Government of Spain ?
(3) Who is the Spanish Ambassador to Great
Britain ? (4) Who is the English Ambassador
to Spain? (5) Where was the administration of
General Franco’s Government carried on during
the civil war? —4245.
(1) Fron July, 1936, until March 28, 1939,
when Madrid surrendered to the Franco forces.
The remaining towns then in possession of the
Government forces likewise surrendered, and on
March 29 the civil war was officially declared
to have ended. (2) On February 27, 1939.
(3) The Duke of Alba, appointed March 19,
1939. (4) Sir Maurice Drummond, appointed
March 4, 1939. (5) Partly at Burgos and partly
at Valladolid.
* * * *
(1) Are unmanned stratosphere balloons cap-
tive or free? (2) In the latter case, how do
they return to earth ? (3) Do they increase in
size as the atmospheric pressure decreases on
their surface owing to their rising? (4) Would
they finally burst, the recording instruments
returning to earth by parachute? —4191.
(1) They are free. (2), (3) and (4) The earliest
balloons used for this work burst as the air
pressure became less. The instruments fell and
chanced a lucky landing. Later, small para-
chutes were fitted so that when the balloon
burst they opened, floating down to earth with
the instruments. In thickly-populated countries
like America and Germany this method was
fairly successful, ingenious undercarriages and
shock-absorbers being constructed to take the
blow and save the instruments. But the data
so obtained were a poor substitute for personal
exploration, and in recent years stratosphere
flights have been made by Prof. Pickard, Capts.
Anderson and Stevens, Dr. Cosyns, Christop-
zille, Prilutski, Varigo and others.
* * # *
(1) Correct way to spell the German title of
Herr Hitler? Have seen it printed variously as
Fiihrer, Fuhrer, Fuehrer and Feuhrer. (2)
Correct way to spell the name of the former
Central European republic—Czechoslovakia or
Czechoslovakia ? —4211.
(1) The spelling with the German umlaut —
“Fuhrer” —is strickly correct. Failing the
use of the umlaut —and few newspapers have
linotype founts equipped with accented letters
—the spelling “Fuehrer” has to be adopted,
“ue” (not “eu”) approximating nearest to a
vowel that has no exact corresponding sound
in English. (2) The spelling “Czechoslovakia”
is backed by the authority of the Consul-
General in Sydney, and the one-word form is
also used by the Encyclopcedia Britannica,
Statesman’s Year-Book, Whitaker’s Almanack
and other authorities.
Hs * * *
I intend writing a thesis on “The Renais-
sance of the Australian Novel.” Can you give
me a list of about 40 or 50 Australian novelists
who have had novels published since 1928 and
whose works will repay serious study? —42Bo.
Novels by the following authors would need
to be studied: “Brent of Bin Bin,” Winifred
Birkett, F. E. Baume, Godfrey Blunden, Ber-
nard Cronin, Dymphna Cusack, Dale Collins,
Eleanor Dark, John Bede Dailey, Henrietta
Drake Brockman, Jean Devaney, Frank Dalby
Davison, M. Barnard Eldershaw, John K.
Ewers, Stella Miles Franklin, Mary Fullerton,
Xavier Herbert, Frederick Howard, J. J. Hardie,
William Hatfield, F. S. Hibble, Stewart
Howard, lon Idriess, Louis Kaye, Eric Lowe,
G. B. Lancaster, Will Lawson, Norman Lind-
say, Seaforth Mackenzie, Leonard Mann,
Mary Mitchell, Frederic Manning, Martin Mills,
Alison McDougall, Myra Morris, Vance Palmer,
Brian Penton, Katharine Susannah Prichard,
Henry Handel Richardson, Helen Simpson,
Christina Stead, Gilbert M. Turnbull, Kylie
Tennant, Robert Desmond Tate, Paul Wenz
and Patrick White. The foregoing is not a
complete list of Australian novelists who have
had novels published since 1928, but only the
generally recognised more important ones whose
works have appeared during the last 12 years.
* * * : ' c
What was the origin of the Red Page of
The Bulletin? —4208.
Until the end of August, 1894, the inside
of the front cover carried advertisements. On
September 1, 1894, there appeared a page
headed “Books of the Day,” an advertise-
ment for The Bulletin Book Exchange, one
of the paper’s sidelines. The heading was
afterwards changed to “The Bulletin Book
Exchange,” and the feature was continued until
February 22, 1896. During the period there is
evidence of a tendency towards criticism of the
books offered for sale. On February 29, 1896,
the feature was replaced by a page of reviews
and paragraphs entitled “Literary Items.” This
heading was employed, with an occasional
change to “Items” and “Chiefly About Books,”
until August 1, 1896. The following week the
heading was “For the Red Page,” and on
August 29, 1896, this was shortened to the
present title.
* He *
(1) Names of the men who accompanied
Bligh on his 3618-miles journey from Tofoa
to Timor after the Bounty mutiny? (2) Names
of those who died before Bligh and his men
returned to England?— 424l.
(1) John Fryer, master; Thomas Ledward,
acting surgeon; David Nelson, botanist; Wil-
liam Peckover, gunner; William Cole, boat-
swain; William Purcell, carpenter; William El-
phinstone, master’s mate ; Thomas Hayward and
John Hallett, midshipmen; John Norton and
Peter Linkletter, quartermasters; John Smith
and Thomas Hall, cooks; George Simpson,
quartermaster’s mate; Robert Tinkler, a boy;
Robert Lamb, butcher; and Mr. Samuel, clerk.
(2) Norton was killed by natives at Tofoa;
Nelson died at Coupang; Elphinstone, Link-
letter and Hall died at Batavia; and Lamb
died on the homeward voyage to England.
* 4= *
Name of author and title of verse begin-
ning “Texas Jack, you are amusing?” —422l.
“A Word to Texas Jack,” by Henry Lawson.
Verse will be found in his book Verses, Popular
and Humorous.
* * * *
Before a clergyman can celebrate a marriage
in N. S. Wales he must be registered for that
purpose with the Registrar-General. Is there
any definition under the N.S.W. Marriage Act
as to what constitutes a minister of religion,
and is provision made in the Act for the
registration of ministers of new religions? —
4171.
Neither the Marriage Act, 1899-1934, nor the
Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages
Act, 1899-1934, contains a definition of “minister
of religion.” Requests for registration of a
minister for the celebration of marriages are
usually made by the head of the denomination
with which the minister is associated. In cases,
however, in which the person seeking registra-
tion is not a minister of a recognised religious
organisation the application should be supported
by a requisition signed by at least 12 adult
members of the congregation and evidence that
the person is a minister of religion ordinarily
officiating as such. Particulars of the nature
of the services conducted and the average
attendances at those services would also be
required.
* * * *
Were the interests of Cobb end Co. con-
fined to coaching ? —4236.
No. As early as 1864 the co. bought the
well-known station Buckinguy in the western
district (which was held by Rutherford at his
death) and other properties in N. S. Wales
and Victoria. It also developed the jarrah
trade between Western Australia and India, and
was contractor for the Glen lnnes to Tenter-
field railway line, which involved the co. in
heavy loss. Rutherford gradually acquired for
himself extensive pastoral properties in
N. S. Wales and Queensland and imported
prize stock on a large scale; he also founded
and financed the Esbank ironworks at Lithgow
which were ultimately sold to G. and C.
Hoskins.
v V •>'
Some details regarding Thomas Barry
Sullivan, a Shakspearean actor who played for
some years in Melbourne during the sixties
of last century? —4227.
Born in Birmingham on July 5, 1824, and
educated at Bristol, at 14 he entered an
attorney’s office but diverted to the stage and
became an actor of minor Shakspearean parts.
He soon rose to eminence in this type of
drama, worked his way through Ireland, Scot-
land and the English provinces to London by
1852 and New York by 1858. In 1862-6 he
starred in Australia, devoting most of his time
to Shakspearean revivals, which were made
especially interesting by the simultaneous
appearance of Charles Kean at a rival theatre
(often in the same part). From 1863 to 1866
he managed the Theatre Royal, Melbourne, and
made a small fortune mainly by his policy of
securing good players to support him; Kean,
a better actor with a poorer company, could
not endanger Sullivan’s popularity. A vigorous
and declamatory actor, Sullivan suited the
provinces and colonies better than London,
though he repeatedly challenged its verdict and
often with success. He died at Brighton,
England, on May 3, 1891.
* * * *
(1) What is the precise meaning of “and/or”
as used in commercial contracts ? (2) The term
has been inveighed against by leading American
Justices. What is the English legal opinion?
(3) Has it been subject to litigation or its legiti-
macy questioned in English courts? (4) If pos-
sible, any American superior Court ruling or
verdict making use of the term ? —4102.
(1) and (2) An authority in the U.S.A., where
the expression “and/or” has a wide vogue, de-
tines it as “a symbol used in law and commerce
for the purpose of avoiding circumlocution.”
It has been condemned as “a hideous inven-
tion, a verbal monstrosity born in defiance of
the laws of philology.” It is, however, ex-
tensively used. In defence of its usage it is
urged that inasmuch as the idea conveyed by
it is one of alternative option “the symbol
is entitled to toleration until something better
is devised” (F. H. Vizetelly). (3) and (4) There
is no record of its having been “subject to liti-
gation” in the English courts, and, though it has
been the subject of harsh criticism in the Ameri-
can courts, no actual damage is recorded.
* * * *
' To what extent is Welsh spoken in Wales
and Gaelic in Scotland? —4254.
In 1931 in Wales and Monmouthshire (pop.
2,640,638) 197,932 persons three years of age
and upwards were able to speak Welsh only,
and 811,329 able to speak Welsh and English.
In Scotland (pop. 4,882,497) in 1931 6716
persons three years of age and upwards could
speak Gaelic only, and 129,419 could speak
Gaelic and English.
, * * *
Is there any arrangement between Great
Britain and Egypt regarding the defence of the
Suez Canal?— 424B.
According to the terms of Article 8 of the
Anglo-Egyptian Treaty of Alliance, 1936, Egypt
authorises, without prejudice to her sovereign
rights, British forces to station in the vicinity
of the Canal, to ensure, temporarily in co-
operation with the Egyptian forces, the defence
of the Canal until the Egyptian army is in a
position to ensure by its own resources such
defence.
* * *
(1) National dividend of Australia, based
upon method adopted by J. T. Sutcliffe, for
the last 10 years? (2) Has the Commonwealth
Bureau of Census and Statistics ever estimated
the national dividend, and what opinion does
that bureau hold regarding the Sutcliffe
method ? —3925.
(1) 1928-29, £644.7 million; 1929-30, £565.9
million; 1930-31, £459.8 million; 1931-32,
£438 million; 1932-33, £458.4 million; 1933-34,
£512.3 million; 1934-35, £517.7 million; 1935-36,
£588.8 million; 1936-37, £661.5 million; 1937-
38 (provisional), £700.4 million. (2) No official
estimates of the national dividend have ever
been made by the bureau, and it declines to
express an opinion as to the validity of the
method adopted by Mr. Sutcliffe.
* le * *
Is it desirable that the committee of a society
should be empowered to confirm the minutes of
an annual general meeting at its first meeting
after the annual meeting? —4l7o.
Yes, as a year elapses before the next annual
general meeting, and memory cannot be trusted
as to what was done a year before. Provision
for confirmation at an ordinary meeting should
be made in the rules.
* * * *
What is the disease of the inner ear known
as labyrinthitis? Is it rare, what are its pos-
sible causes, and does it leave a weakness in
the head after its abatement ? —4103.
This inflammation of the inner ear involves
the important structures known as the cochlea,
the vestibule and the semicircular canals, and
is relatively common in the practice of aurists.
The acute form is usually due to the extension
of inflammation from the neighboring middle
ear, to hemorrhage into the labyrinth (such as
occurs after severe injury), to some form of
anaemia or to arterial changes. After recovery
the patient may have attacks of giddiness, ring-
ing in the ears or nerve deafness.
* :Jc ❖ ijc
What are the following complaints: (1)
Dupuytren’s contraction, (2) inguinal hernia,
(3) X-ray bronchitis ? —3979.
(1) A contracted or shrunken condition of
the fingers and palm of the hand, following
upon an inflammatory overgrowth of their
tissues. Named after the celebrated French
surgeon who first described it. (2) A hernia
is the protrusion of part of a bodily organ
through an abnormal opening, or through an
opening which should not normally admit it.
In the inguinal variety, portion of the bowel
passes into the tube known as the inguinal
canal. (3) An inflammatory condition of the
bronchial tubes due to continued exposure to
the rays without proper precautions.
« * »
A few particulars concerning poet John Shaw
Neilson, with a list of his publications ? —4229.
Son of John Neilson, a farmer and con-
tractor, he was born at Penola (S.A.) on Feb-
ruary 22, 1872. He had little schooling, and
after going to live in Victoria at the age of
nine he followed the life of the ordinary bush
worker. Publications include Heart of Spring
(1919), Ballad and Lyrical Poems (1923), New
Poems (1927), Collected Poems (1934), The
Men of the ’Fifties (1938) and Beauty Im-
poses (1938).
* $ * 4
(1) What English publishers of children’s
annuals accept contributions from freelance
writers? (2) Where could I find their editorial
requirements and rates of payment ? —4234.
(1) Amalgamated Press, Ltd., Farringdon-
street, E.C.4; Hutchinson and Co., 3 Pater-
noster-row, E.C.4; Thomas Nelson and Sons.,
Ltd., 35 Paternoster-row, E.C.4; Oxford
University Press, Warwick-square, E.C.4;
Simpkin Marshall, Stationers’ Hall Court,
E.C.4—all London; Blackie and Son., Ltd.,
17 Stanhope-street, and Wm. Collins, Sons and
Co., 144 Cathedral-street —both Glasgow; Basil
Blackwell, Ltd., 49 Broad-street, Oxford. (2)
The Authors’ Handbook or The Writers and
Artists’ Year-Book.
Does Anybody Know?
History of sailing ship Caroline Castle, at one
time commanded by Capt. Austin Cooper,
which traded between London to Sydney?—
4144.
Brief Answers.
H. 8.: See G. B. Barton’s Literature in New
South Wales (Sydney, 1866) and J. Moore-
Robinson’s Chronological List of Tasmanian
Newspapers from 1810 to 1933 (Hobart, 1933).
....G.H.: Was possible with the old cylindri-
cal records (Edison type), but is impracticable
with modern disks. (2), (3) and (4) An attach-
ment with cutter, microphone and head is
obtainable for use on acetate disks, which are
generally employed by amateurs and broadcast-
ing studios. Approximate cost £8 Bs. For all
information and literature, write J. Stanley
Johnson, Ltd., 437 George-street, Sydney
J.M.: In Sydney, Dr. J. McGeorge or Dr.
D. W. H. Arnott, both of Macquarie-street.
Any general practitioner will recommend a
suitable man in Brisbane A.G.: Persons re-
peatedly bitten by this and other insects, such
as mosquitoes, very often acquire a natural
immunity with the passage of time, but this
cannot be brought about artificially so far.
Following a bite, pain is relieved by hot fomen-
tations, the application of weak ammonia
solutions or ointments containing menthol....
W.A.: (1) From your description of the rash
and the suggested remedies, you appear to
be suffering from the skin condition called
psosiasis, but this is mere guesswork. Best plan
would be to consult a local skin-specialist. (2)
“Rheumatics” is a vague term; impossible to
suggest a likely remedy without further details.
.... J.M.: The treatment is obtainable in Syd-
ney, and is very valuable in suitable cases,
having the approval of the best experts. It
cannot be administered to out-patients, as it
necessitates rest in bed in a hospital. Your
best plan, as a preliminary, would be to
undergo examination by a nerve specialist at
one of the public hospitals. Surely this could
be done in Townsville? ... .C.J.C.: In order to
save needless outlay, best plan is to place the
formula before some large firm of manufactur-
ing chemists, such as Elliotts and Australian
Drug Co. Impossible to estimate cost without
knowledge of ingredients and proposed produc-
tion W.A.M.C.: It won’t cure deafness, but
is obtainable from most chemists; price, about
4s. 6d. per bottle... .T.J.L.: His address is
Hengrove Hall, 193 Macquarie-street, Sydney.
M.O.D.: Inglebar means “crayfish hole’’;
Jerriga, “reedy swamp”; Kundabung, “wild
apples”; Moonbileen, “a dry creek”; Quipolly,
“waterhole containing fish”; Tallawarra, “a
slippery high place”; Nilloring, “honey run-
ning from a tree”; Yarrunga, “large trees”;
Kunama, “snow”; Bangaroo, “a native bear”
—all are N.S.W. abo. place-names A.C.C.:
(1) The duration of N.S.W. Parliaments from
1856 to 1874 was limited to five years, but in
1874 the Triennial Parliaments Act was passed,
which altered the duration to three years. (2)
An opinion was given in 1916 by the Crown
Law officers that the N.S.W. Parliament ex-
pires three years after the day prior to the
original date of the return of writs...-L-T.:
The Taj Mahal is a marble mausoleum built
(1631-45) at Agra, India, by the Mogul Em-
peror Shah-Jahan in memory of his favorite
wife. In beauty of design and rich decorative
detail it is one of the best examples of Sara-
cenic architecture... .G. 8.: A portmanteau
word is one formed by arbitrary combination of
two words so as to suggest something of the
sense of each; so called by Lewis Carroll, and
applied especially to semi-nonsensical coinages
(slithy from slimy and lithe) .... 8.H.: Unless
you are a tradesman (fitter, boilermaker) you
are too old for entry to the navy. Normal age
is 16+ to 18 years. The District Naval Officer,
Ed ward-street, Brisbane, is the recruiting officer
for Queensland... .C.D.: An application for a
widow’s pension may be made to the Widows'
Pensions Office, Macquarie-street, Sydney. In
order to be residentially qualified the widow
must be residing in N. S. Wales and have been
continuously so resident during the period of
three years immediately preceding the date of
the application, and the widow and her late
husband must have been domiciled in this
State at the time of death of the husband
R.M.8.: Angus and Robertson, Sydney, can
supply the following books by Walter de la
Mare: Poems, 1901-1918 (31s. 6d.), Poems,
1919-34 (125.), Stories, Essays and Poems (35.).
J.P.: At a census taken in the Australian
Capital Territory on June 30, 1938, there were
6286 males and 5276 females, making a total
of 11,562 and representing an increase of 29
p.c. since the 1933 census... .E.8.C.: Lingua-
phone (Australia) Institute, 350 George-street,
Sydney H.T.: Write Director, Lighthouse
Services, C’wealth Navigation Department,
Customs House, Circular Quay, Sydney A.A.:
Apparently the turkeys are affected with fowl
pox. This disease can be prevented by vacci-
nation carried out before December... .L.W.:
A solution of lime sulphur can be used —3oz.
each of lime and sulphur being boiled up in a
pint of water until the solution is bright-
red in color R.F.: Yes, for the balance
of rent unpaid G.M.A.: Yes, in the U.S.A.,
but not in Australia R.W.C.: They are not
legitimate “nephews and nieces” of the testator,
but wills are interpreted by the Court, not on
their strictly legal reading but, so far as can
be ascertained, on a reasonable presumption
of the testator’s intention. The Court might
therefore construe the expression “all nieces and
nephews” to include the illegitimately as well
as the legitimately born T. 8.8.: No infor-
mation available as to the relative abundance
of the water-rat in various rivers. Water-rats
are to be found all over Australia (there are
several species), in rivers, swamps, lakes and-
lagoons, wherever the environment suits them.
R.A.F.: A .303 bullet discharged from the
rifle would, in all probability, be effective up
to a maximum of three miles, but the distance
mentioned by you is most improbable; the
range is beyond all reasonable limits
V.P.N.: At four months a red setter puppy
should have three meals per day, about 11
a.m., 4 p.m. and 8 p.m. The first could con-
sist of cooked meat with broken dog biscuit
or dried, rebaked slices of wholemeal bread;
at 4 p.m. give only a light meal of an egg
beaten in a little milk with broken dog bis-
cuit; at 8 p.m. he should have raw beef. The
amount should be a little less than he can
eat. At six months cut out the 4 p.m. meal
CS J : Write Deputy-Commissioner, Repatria-
tion Department, Chalmers-street, Sydney
PE,; Write Secretary, Australian Naval Board,
Victoria Barracks, Melbourne. ■


HONGKONG
Wonderful holiday tour to this
port of mystery and charm, by-
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports, with
additional calls at Saigon and
Madang. The m.v. “NEP-
TUNA” sails regularly from
Melbourne and Sydney. Excel-
lent cuisine and service—sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . : .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BURNS,PHILF
& CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
m
V
i
■
i
¥t
K
m
m
Sr
BP
mm
P pP
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
128 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Prudential Building, Wellington, N.Z.
HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Only one minute from G.P.O. and four from
Wynyard Square Railway Station. Every com-
fort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
Modern a la carle Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
‘Grancentral,” Sydney
The “Billabong”
Portable Pumping Unit
FOR GOLD PROSPECTORS, ROAD CON-
TRACTORS, BUILDERS and PASTORALISTS
It consists of a “Billabong”
Centrifugal Pump and Petrol
Engine. The capacity is up to 100
gallons and the unit is light and
portable and provided with handles
for carrying.
Write here for
BUILDING and IRRIGATION
SUPPLIES
■
91
m
m
JOHN DARIKS AMD SOM
PROPRIETARY LIMITED J incorporated in victoria I
’Phone M 6505 324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
’Phone M 2381 391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally
John H.: Watch your metaphors. You’ve
given her cross eyes F.R.K.: It’s hardly
momentous enough to address to “Adolf
Hitler”... .G.M.: She sounds a nice girl
A-C.F.: It is hard to write good poetry about
Mr. Stevens... .J. 8.8.: Do you really think
y° u 4° justice to “The Universe”?... .J.R.:
‘ Facile forces filching futile gains” fleeing
home with their fearful f’5....G.G.: How old
y° u ? M.W.: An interesting letter
, Your rhymes are dreadful
’ Uo kick in that cocktail....
T.E McC. : A sad case... .A.1.C.: We hear the
idle twit” of too many birds... .H.E.W.:
Meandering” is just that... .F.J.D.: Every
line of “The Battle of Burning Toil” shows
signs of infernal struggle M.R.: Raw,
indeed.... .E.E.: No news there... .A.E.D.: It
does not... .A.S.: No, but it has some power.
E.C.: It may do for an eisteddfod, but it
won tdo here... .A.M.: It’s only the beginning
° * A.G.V.: This is no place for
A Child s Thoughts”... .T.L.: Very patriotic
and very encouraging, but very ordinary....
C.M.K.: “Personality, Polish and Poise” lacks
all three... .1.M.G.: Thin... .P.W.: Can’t find
anything in “Eternal Quest” S.M.: Call
again R.H.: It’s all right in the middle,
but the ending’s conventional N.M.: You’re
never far off L.M.H. and M. 8.: Try a
woman s; paper... .W.K .: Happy little piece,
isn t it?... .G.F.C.: Unsuitable J.C.: Has
its moments, but it doesn’t make a yarn....
F. 8.0.: But how did you find out about them?
L.M.: Not up J.T.N.: All right in
spots, but it rambles too much J.M.T.:
Not adopting “His Son” 8.A.: Try it
elsewhere... .F.E.C.: The anecdotes might boil
down to a few pars., the yarns miss....
K.M.S.: The office-boy has it N.L.: Those
pearls are hidden in that water-bottle about
twice every week... .C.K.R.: We’re still trying
to reckon it out... .8.T.R.: The covering letter
was nicely written E.8.W.: Old stuff....
N.A.D.: So you’ve caught the drought com-
plex, too V.C.: Not for us G. 8.:
“Chicken Feed” is just that L.H.: Lunacy
doesn’t give point to a yarn... .K.P.R.: It’s
about the worst “nightmare” we’ve had to
date... .V.T.L.: The “forceful climax” is only
a hiccup... .T.N.E.: Where did you learn
about prospecting? 8.H.L.: “At least I’ve
never written anything worse than this.” And
you probably never wi11... .H.J.D.: Your
sense of humor has a bad kink in it 8.T.L.;
That old bush flivver has failed to make the
grade a thousand times L.S.T.: Horrible.
B.S.C.: Can’t decipher it C.L.G.:
Sticky J.8.F.: Yes, it’s an unusual contri-
bution —thank goodness H.F.P.: Not that
one, but come again C.R.D.: The mere
thought of “a genuine horror story” makes us
shudder C.R.S.: No handout for “Swaggie.”
... X.E.J.: As we see it, the chap who was
murdered in the first place wasn’t murdered
at all, but was the detective who solved the
first murder which wasn’t committed after all,
so why hang Reginald?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.W.M.: Sending them back for repairs
D.G.: Chap in gaiters and bowler is certainly
not an Australian cocky, nor is the yokel in
the smock an Australian farmhand S.S.:
Hard to say which we disliked the more —the
smudged charcoal sketch or the streaky wash
drawing S.M.J.: Tidy, but that’s all
A.8.A.: Jest made its debut during the early
days of radio M.M.: Yes, they must be
original L.M.8.: A wooden lot P.R.:
What are John Bull and Young Australia
shaking hands about? C.C.: You’re still
making the same old mistakes, and your humor
gets no brighter K.H.: From the grand
old hit-or-miss school... .W.V.: Among this
week’s most promising.... A.W.8.: The sooner
you declare a sit-down strike the better
H.S.: The car finished on the scrapheap, and
its driver in' the office morgue J.D.: A dull
and murky attempt to illustrate a very stale
chestnut... .K.J.: "Hop” got in before you
by about 50 years T.8.M.: Use Indian ink
and white drawing paper, and write the gag
on the back of the drawing E.P.: His
Worship has mouthed an ancient legal quip.
T.C.: Conversation between articles of
clothing on clothesline was pointless K.L.:
After the job you have made of him we
wouldn’t be surprised if the axeman turned on
you G.H.C.: Convict is an old friend....
R.H.8.: You’re making progress; drawings
need more balance A.D.: Ornamental
borders are all very well, but it is what is
within them that counts.. . .P.M.: Missed
again J.L.8.: Shapely maidens, but they
prattle tamely N. 8.: Couldn’t see the
characters for the labels and signposts
0.5.: That’s no way to depict a noble animal.
A MIXED GRILL.
“Insomnia”: A proposal to register
cats as well as dogs has been seriously
debated, in Melbourne, as a method of
reducing the feline population in the in-
terests of bird life. There are approxi-
mately a million cats in the metropolis
and suburbs to every adult inhabitant,
and if the owners of only a tithe of them
paid fees for their pets it would go a
long way towards removing the Govern-
ment’s £BOO,OOO deficit. The Dunstans
have thought of less practicable ways of
collecting revenue.
* $ * X
“E.S.”: How did the Australian
modernists get it into their heads that
they are revolutionaries and radicals tilt-
ing against the established order? Per-
sonal acquaintance with the art move-
ments of Europe assures me that they are
as completely fashionable as any Austra-
lian young lady. All the accepted con-
temporary painters in Europe are
moderns and some have netted fortunes.
Utrillo made millions of francs out of
the kind of picture that young men
and girls are painting. Moreover,
modernism in Australia is as fashion-
able as it is in Europe. I went
into a city magnate’s office the other
day. It had just been veneered in the
latest style from Hollywood, and on the
walls, where formerly etchings by Victor
Cobb or oils by Streeton would have
been hanging, were a couple of strange
canvases bought from the show of the
Contemporaries.
* X * *
“Cal”: The comparative strenuousness
of various sports has now been measured
in calorie expenditure, the rate for ordi-
nary living being about 100 cals, per
hour. Walking at 3| m.p.h., you use
300 cals. p.h.; if you increase speed to
5.3 m.p.h. you burn 650 cals., though
running at the same speed you would
burn only 570 cals. If you walk upstairs
at 5.3 m.p.h. you burn 1300 cals. p.h. A
racing cyclist spins along at 600 cals., and
swimmers at 2 m.p.h. use 624 cals.
Mountain-climbing is the most strenuous
of all —about 800 cals. p.h. for a 15,000 ft.
climb.
% % % %
As long ago as 1925 Bruce said the
Digger had done his job and younger
men should take up the burden. As an
ignoble alternative to universal training,
Diggers now in middle life, and even
those who have grown old, have been in-
vited to join the A.M.F. as reservists.
The Victorian R.S.L. executive has
coldly replied that “no spontaneous re-
sponse to the appeal for reservists can
be expected unless the Government im-
plements the League’s policy of universal
military training to ensure equality of
service in the spheres for which all able-
bodied men are fitted.”
% * * *
“Tosh”: Died in a mental home in
England, artist Souter’s prototype, cat-
painter Louis Wain, aged 78, Fifty years
ago there was scarcely an issue of any
children’s paper which did not contain
one or more of Wain’s cats. He drew
150,000 cats; started the National Cat
Club in England and was its president
before his reason failed.
X * X X
“D.”: It is reported that some British
rayon producers have approached the
Federal Government for a tariff to protect
a proposed branch art.-silk factory in the
Commonwealth. Some little while back
there was talk also of Australian Paper
Manufacturers becoming interested in the
production of rayon or other cellulose
products, the basis of such products be-
ing woodpulp, of which A.P.M. is about
to begin manufacture on a commercial
scale for its paper and board mills. So
far as Courtauld’s and the like are con-
cerned, if they like to come here and
manufacture under protection of a
reasonable tariff, that is all right. But
Australian investors should be very care-
ful about putting up money to finance
art.-silk manufacture. Other textile
fibres aren’t in it with rayon for tempera-
mental behavior in course of production,
Several British factories went broke for
no other reason than that the plant just
wouldn’t turn out satisfactory rayon from
facture of the stuff nowadays shows that
in the ultimate patience and capital will
prevail over the eccentricities of rnanu-
facture. But patience and capital are
often the things that new cos. don t
possess on a large scale.
*
“X.S.”: At the annual meeting of the
Victorian Cold Tea party it was revealed
that £30,000 was spent in putting the case
for Cold Tea in 1938. The net result was
an overwhelming vote against Cold Tea
and an Act abolishing the eight-yearly
referendum. Cold Tea advocates re-
main unconvinced, and the campaign
is to proceed on the assumption,
expressed by one enthusiast, that the
opposition to six o’clock closing and pro-
hibition comes not from the public but
from the liquor trade. Evidently the
enthusiast never goes into a pub before
or after hours,
* * * *
The young chords of ,h=
Vienna Mozart Choir are all the rage in
Melbourne, but there is an old choirboy
who is just as game as when he started
singing Te Deums in his babyhood. He
j s Fred Frewin, ex-sec. of the Choristers’
Association. At 80 he has just gone off
on his third world tour, and had to resign
his position in several musical organisa-
tions to get the necessary liberty.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
Written, according to the author, with the worst pen in captivity, and looking
like it, this week’s winner takes the prize for the clarity, plus original approach, of
his statement on a subject usually made unintelligible by financial jargon and
general wordy obscurity.
Now It’s “Inflate”
I wonder what the average Australian
citizen who lends such a ready ear to
the inflation policy of political get-rich-
quick cranks would say if asked to take
part in a game of poker under the fol-
lowing rules: Two packs of cards used,
from one of which the Aussie player s
hand is dealt only “jack-high”; the
other, used to deal hands to his oppo-
nent, “ace-high” and “four-low. 1
There is no necessity to point out the
inevitable result of such a game to any
gambling Australian, and still less need
to insult his intelligence by suggesting that
he would take part in it. But the result
will be the same whether that particular
Aussie is willing to play poker under
crank rules or willing to gamble his shirt
on a national policy of monetary infla-
tion, or “credit extension” if you like.
For the benefit of a great many others
who prefer a different type of gamble
but who are nevertheless only too ready
and willing to support an inflationist
policy, I’ll put the proposition in another
form. Suppose two trading companies
were to be floated for the purpose of
buying Australian-produced goods and
selling them abroad in the world’s
markets. Company No. 1, floated on the
English money market, has a trading
capital of £lOOO sterling. Company
No. 2, in which Australian capital is in-
vested, has a trading capital of £lOOO
Australian. No. 1 can buy 1250 units
of Australian goods at £1 per unit in
Australian currency, and by selling these
goods at a net profit of 8 p.c. show a
profit of £lOO sterling on the deal. No. 2
can buy only 1000 units of similar goods
at the same price, and would have to
make a profit of 10 p.c. net in order to
make a profit of £lOO in Australian
money. The company using the capital
which has the greater buying power, or,
in other words, the form of money which
has suffered least from a policy of cur-
rency inflation, thus has the “edge 1 in
either buying or selling, and is in a posi-
tion not only to undersell its rival in a
highly competitive market, but to even-
tually eliminate that rival in either buy-
ing market or selling market.
The pages of the world’s history con-
tain the records of many races who tried
to get rich by using cowrie-shells as a
trading medium in competition with
money of greater value, but relics of such
peoples are mostly to be found in
museums to-day.
Australians as a race are very likely
to be added to the number if they con-
tinue to “lay the odds” in the race for
the world’s trade. —H. Lake.
This is the winner’s name. His address
is Woods Reef, Barraba, N.S.W.
Universal Peace Now ?
Away back, round about the year dot,
the wise men of that time were discuss-
ing the possibilities of universal peace.
What came of their deliberations is
easily seen in just one glance at any
standard history-book.
War has followed war in rapid succes-
sion, and each war has been more san-
guinary than the previous one. The losses
in the fighting round Verdun in the last
war exceeded the total losses in the
Napoleonic Wars. And so on. Although
countless other examples could be
proffered, no doubt one should suffice.
Perhaps then only a fool —or else an
idealist —would cherish hopes for univer-
sal peace in our time. A peace without
ending, during which the Biblical phrase
about “beating swords into ploughshares”
will have become a reality.
It must be remembered, however, that
the hates and grievances that make for
evil in the modern world are not natural
to man, but are really part of his inherited
culture.
We regard as barbarism what William
the Conqueror regarded as culture. And
the fact that mankind has progressed to
such an extent during a thousand years is
most encouraging. For not only were
the good characteristics developed and
handed on to unborn generations, but the
bad characteristics were subdued also one
by one.
Whereas the people of the ancient
world glorified war, we moderns are
beginning to realise that co-operation
between nations is a better means to a
mutual understanding than competition.
For proof of that, note the increas-
ing popularity of trade pacts. America
and Britain, for instance, just to mention
two nations. It must be obvious, there-
fore, that mankind is starting to acquire
“gumption.” Not only is it beginning to
realise the futility of war, but it is now
in the position to estimate the cost —
in lives as well as in money.
During the last 12 months we have
witnessed the most momentous war in
the history of mankind. We have wit-
nessed a war that will go down in his-
tory as a war between the advocates of
war and the advocates of peace. And
yet the masses still stand aloof, flinch
from war, even though lashed day and
night by war propaganda issued by irre-
sponsible radio stations and newspapers.
So what does this prove? It simply
means that man’s inherited culture (which
received a polishing by every successive
generation) is starting to triumph at last.
In short, man’s thoughts and impulses
are no longer swayed by the thousands
of years that his ancestors spent in bar-
barism.
Mankind stands on the threshold of
universal peace. So perhaps, after all, the
last war was Armageddon, and the mil-
lions of sacrifices were not in vain.—
R. Conquest (Q.).
Rackets
All this blither about poker machines
being a racket (that’s what N.S.W. Chief
Secretary Gollan terms them) leaves
me cold. They are no more a racket than
lotteries, raffles for motor-cars or 6d.
competitions organised by newspapers.
The Minister declares that the
ratio returned to the player is Is. in
16s. In State lotteries the odds against
you are much worse, but politicians don’t
declare these lotteries “a menace, a
gambling evil and a definite racket.”
And will somebody tell me of a bigger
racket than increasing politicians’ pay
when the State discloses a deficit of
£2,748,409 for 1938-39, or paying into
consolidated revenue a tax specifically
collected to ease the burden of the un-
employed? The “pea and thimble” and
“find the lady” tricks are Sunday-school
picnic games compared with them.
Let’s have something done about Aus-
tralia’s biggest racket —the dismissing of
our 18-21 boys and girls from employ-
ment and the substitution of the 14-17
group. But is there a paid politician
game to take up this “racket”? — Aussie
(N.S.W.).
Australia’s Parliament
The right time to have started the
gradual elimination of the State Legisla-
tures was 40 years ago, when Federation
was established. It took many years to
obtain support of the majority of voters
to that proposal, which had higher poli-
tical attractions than ever previously in
existence in Australia, so that the build-
ing of a Federated State was easy com-
pared with the disestablishment of the
original Parliaments of the various States,
the roots of which are still very strongly
embedded, and which will need tremen-
dous force (Bob Semple’s bulldozers by
the thousands) to uproot.
I should like to hear something of the
methods proposed to bring about the
much-needed reform, and meantime sug-
gest a start by reducing the number of
State members each election by from five
to ten members, compensating each State
so reduced by the election of one mem-
ber to the Federal Parliament, until the
State Parliaments are reduced to an
agreed number, and then eventually abol-
ished. This process would take years
to finalise, but any such scheme must be
extended over a long period.
There is a full-time job ahead of a
big man possessed of astounding faith,
infinite patience and endurance, in colla-
boration with a team of loyal and effi-
cient men and women, of whom Aus-
tralia possesses many qualified to help
in the great work. —H. A. Deighton
(M.L.).
Refugees at Kuitpo
We thought the Jewish immigrants
were not to take the place of Australians,
but already 16 have been taken into
Kuitpo colony, Adelaide’s training-camp
for unemployed men. The foreigners are
being paid for, certainly, but, paid for or
not, they are taking the places that could
be used by that number of our own too-
numerous unfortunate lads.
These refugees are helpless people in
a strange land, but our ow.n are helpless,
too, and require just as much training to
be the useful citizens the Jews are going
to make.
Feeling runs high in Adelaide. Surely
we don’t want any more race hatred.
Although competition can never be
avoided where work is concerned, those
responsible for Jewish immigrants could
help in this matter considerably by start-
ing training colonies of their own, and
forming communities such as those of
our useful German farmers. Nota
Bene (S.A.).
Shearers and' Communism
The stagnant pool of shearing-shed life
is a great breeding-ground for the germ
6f extreme radical thought. The shear-
ing fraternity harbors more Communists
pro rata than any other body of workers
in Australia. It’s paradoxical, too, that
such a bulwark of capitalism as horse-
racing should be indirectly responsible
for the growth of this lamentably con-
tagious disease.
It’s like this. In outback Australia,
where distances are enormous and mails
infrequent, the shearer often finds him-
self cut off for considerable periods from
his national literature —the pink, blue,
yellow and piebald racing sheets and
supplements. What then does he read
during his wet-weather and week-end
leisure? Strangely there is always the
inevitable Bolshie in the shed with a
portmanteau chockablock with revolu-
tionary literature.
Usually the average shearer would
scarcely be concerned with such abstract
things as Marxism or political economy
—not whilst such concrete things as a
radio and an s.p. bloke are around the
corner. But in these circumstances —
exiled hundreds of miles from the de-
sired amenities—the books move quickly
around the huts and the seeds fall on
very fertile and absorbent ground. —W. S.
Howard (N.S.W.).
Macriland’s Militia
Maoriland Government is taking steps
to prepare a trained body of men to
meet any invasion by increasing the
volunteer force and by strengthening the
air arm. One inducement to young men
to join the Territorials is that they will
not be asked to fight beyond our shores.
Unless the spirit and courage of M.L.
manhood is radically different from what
it was in 1914, it would seem that a better
plea would be to tell them that they
might be called upon to fight abroad.
The best defence of Fernland will be,
not in the Dominion, but where the
Empire, including Enzed, can best be
defended. Our frontiers in 1914 were
in France, Belgium, Gallipoli, Egypt and
elsewhere ; they are the same now, with
the addition of Poland, Turkey, Singa-
pore, Darwin —anywhere that the aggres-
sor can best be met. Why should Japan
or any other Power seek to invade our
shores directly? If Britain and her allies,
including Maoriland, are defeated in any
war, and are in the position in which
Germany and her allies were in 1919,
there will be no need for such an in-
vasion: our fate will have been decided.
If the Empire wins the war, as it will, no
such invasion would take place.
It is apparently thought that, say, Japan
would attempt such a move. But would
she send a vast flotilla of troopships, war-
ships and supply ships thousands of miles
from any base unless her sea lines of
communication were intact and could not
be assailed by any sea Power —that is,
unless Britain and France and Holland,
etc., were impotent in the Pacific? This
means that those Powers must already
have been defeated, and our fate already
sealed, except for such small defence as
we might put up. An attack by sea on
a land position is one of the most diffi-
cult, dangerous and complicated of war-
like operations, as the Anzacs know only
too well. The Government is not taking
any steps to provide air-raid defences,
gas masks, etc., for the civil population.
Our Territorials will not be called upon
to fight an invader on our shores ; but
they may well be of service, once trained,
beyond the Tasman. E. T. Herington
(M.L.).
National Unity
Speaking in the N.S.W. Leg. Assem-
bly in 1891, Edmund Barton declared:
“There is one thing which, above all
others, actuates me in my political life,
and will actuate me until it is accom-
plished, and that is the union of the Aus-
tralian colonies.” Last Friday in Mel-
bourne the present Prime Minister stated:
“One thing impressed me above all others
—that we are not even yet a united Aus-
tralian people.”
The United Australia party so far has
been a misnomer. Conceived at a time
when parochialism was an ever-growing
menace, the name has been quite obliter-
ated by increasing prejudice and suspicion
between the States, and, at a time when
national unity is of paramount import-
ance, the country is being torn apart by
purely local issues and party rivalry.
Mere thought of the secession move-
ment in Westralia, the bun-rush to the
Loan Council, or the hundred and one
political State boundaries should con-
vince anyone that State Parliaments
should be abolished. Six hundred and
ten politicians have combined to produce
a terrible muddle within the nation, rep-
resenting, as they do, approximately six
hundred and ten conflicting ideas and
party prejudices.
If the Constitution carries flaws which
stand in the way of national unity, then
the obvious thing to do is to change the
Constitution. Only in a country where
intelligence and progress have been swal-
lowed up in a mist of political oppor-
tunism could such a state of affairs exist.
—William Lynch (N.S.W.).
Register Aliens
I note that The Bulletin occasionally
quotes from the “Saturday Evening Post.”
May I draw your attention to an article
in that publication, dated May 9, 1939,
written by I. A. R. Wylie. Therein, after
analysing her own reactions to a sojourn
in U.S.A. of—off and on—2o years, she
suggests the idea that all immigrants of
alien race should be registered -during
lifetime as resident aliens, and that only
their children born in the new country
be considered nationals of that country.
In the present day of world migration
and racial hatreds, the question appears
to me of great importance. Innis-
FAILIAN (N.Q.).
Improving the Militia
“Peter Piper” overlooks fares and pay
when he suggests improving militia train-
ing by holding bi-weekly evening parades
(B. 5/7/’39). Tram fares, in Adelaide,
at least, are quite an item to the normal
wage-earner, who has to wait at least three
months for them to be repaid. The
amounts allowed vary considerably ; even
the accountants in our crowd consider
they are being robbed —one in particular
receives sixpence for an eighteenpenny
fare, and that’s hard to reconcile.
The trainees grouch at similar pin-
pricks, put up with them as something
alien from their civilian life, learn their
“stuff,” but make a mental resolve to
pass out at the end of the three-year
term.
vShort weight, real or imaginary, in
fares and pay helps to create the “wast-
age” deplored by the authorities. It is
hard to see where “P.P.’s” extra evening
is coming from. My unit, in common
with others, runs an extra voluntary even-
ing parade (no fares or pay) for special-
ists each week ; these are, as a rule, well
.attended. An n.c.os.’ class (voluntary)
takes up the third evening, not leaving
many nights for the brightlights or home.
The prevalent feeling is that the keen-
ness shown might be reciprocated with
at least fares. The irony of it is that we
learn more on the voluntary than on the
ceremonial nights.
I strongly suggest week-end bivouacs
to increase the efficiency of the troops.
A little extra cost, certainly, but there
is nothing like camp-life to bring the
crowd together, and they are certainly
keen enough to sacrifice an occasional
v/eek-end. —Johnny Nuts (S.A.).
Wheat Bounty
Australia is a land of muddlers. Take
this flour tax and wheat bounty as an
instance. The wheat bounty is a com-
pensation to poor farmers for the low
market price of wheat. That sounds
splendid in principle. But, speaking
from experience of conditions in nor-


western N. S. Wales, the true state of
affairs is altogether different.
We experienced a bumper harvest here
last year, and on an average the yield was
from two to 2} times the usual one. The
bulk of this wheat was sold at 2s. 2d. per
bushel. Certainly a poor price, but, tak-
ing the double yield into consideration, it
works out at roughly 4s. a bushel as per
general years. On top of that the poor
farmer gets the wheat bounty.
The farcical situation is that a wealthy
man with thousands of bags of wheat
collects a large cheque from the Govern-
ment. I may state that quite a few poor
wealthy farmers have acquired new cars
since the arrival of the bounty cheques.
Now, then, contrast this with the poor
beggars in other districts. Their crops
were practically a failure, and some aver-
aged only about half the usual yield.
Therefore the low price of wheat was a
tragedy to them, and the wheat bounty
paid as per the pitiful bushel-yield was
a mere pittance. So once again the
worker pays for his dear loaf of bread
so that the Government may reimburse
the wealthy man with the price of a
couple of new limousines. — Bounty
(N.S.W.).
Foreign Doctors
If the law permits a man to enter the
country, it should allow him to follow
his occupation, whatever it may be, pro-
vided, of course, he satisfies the authori-
ties of his competency.
Are we to say to the refugee brick-
layer, “Yes, you may lay bricks,” and
to the refugee doctor, “No, you can’t
doctor, but you may lay bricks”?
A man is contented only doing the
work he knows best. If we allow these
refugee doctors in, let us give them a
chance to make a living and become use-
ful members of the community rather
than discontents. Debar them a liveli-
hood and ultimately they become a
charge on the country.
Too much deference is paid to the
medical profession. Its members seem to
think that a degree entitles them to a
standard of living far beyond that of
others. Instance their attitude over national
insurance ; their brothers the chemists ac-
cepted without demur the scale of fees
for medicines fixed by the national in-
surance authorities, but not so the
B.M.A. It held up the gun.
A little competition in the medical field
would do a lot of good.—F. F. B. (Q.).
“D.A.K.’s” plea for foreign doctors (B.
19/7/’39) didn’t further their cause. He
eulogises the already charitable general
practitioner, but castigates the g.p.’s much-
maligned body, the 8.M.A., which, he
contends, refuses to countenance a privi-
lege that is never reciprocated in the
countries of the foreign doctors’ origin,
whilst our own kith and kin are clamor-
ing to enter the portals of this humane
profession.
To refer to our young doctors as young
cubs just out of school being spoonfed
when these same young men are willing
to accept the munificent salary of 325. 9d.
pfer week in this State —whilst acting as
junior residents in our hospitals—is bunk.
In justice to our young manhood, the
potential defenders of our land, let us
give them a fair go, even at this late
stage. They certainly deserve some recog-
nition in times of peace, as seemingly
they are a national asset of the first im-
portance when hoary “has-beens” want
them to “have a go” on their behalf.—
W. E. C. (N.S.W.).
Parliament on the Air
With reference to the article by
“V.A.K.” (B. 5/7/’39), I rather think that,
if he were to come across to Maoriland
and listen-in to part (I don’t think any-
one could listen to the whole) of a ses-
sion of Parliament being broadcast, he
would change his mind. When one con-
siders the enormous expense to which the
country is put and then listens to the
terrific number of puerile interjections,
repetition of catchcries, backslapping of
colleagues by each other, smothering
coughs and derisive hoots that make any
attempt at constructive criticism almost
impossible, the whole thing loses its
aspect of dignity and closely resembles
a comedy of errors or a glorified election
campaign.
We in Maoriland are at present blessed
(so we are told repeatedly) by having a
Labor Government to manage our coun-
try. This party came into power after
the depression, and many attempts at
criticism by the Opposition are met with
a reply “That’s better than you could do
during the depression,” which bright re-
mark, together with a roar of laughter,
costs several pounds and gets us nowhere.
It is bad enough to know that the
country is spending so much money a
minute to enable politicians to indulge
in trifling persiflage, evasion of issues and
electioneering, but to sit and listen to
them doing it is almost impossible; and
my advice to “V.A.K.” and any other
Australians of the same opinion is not
to press too hard for such broadcasting
unless they are prepared to be greatly
disillusioned and extremely annoyed.—
J. B. B. (M.L.).
“Dead-end Jobs”?
I hear a lot these times about “dead-
end jobs” and their evil effect on youth,
and I remember that 40 years ago I was
a voluntary dead-ender. By virtue of
scholarships won in Victorian State
schools I had the opportunity for a scien-
tific education, or by my father’s influ-
ence I could have become a blacksmith,
but I abandoned both for the “call of
the Golden West.”
Since then, as a dead-ender, I’ve pros-
pected for gold, both by shaft-sinking on
deep leads and by punching oonts around
the outer-back mulga. I’ve punched beef
along the rim of the Kimberleys, and
sought for pearls in the near-by ocean.
Later I worked in mines for wages.
I’ve known foundries and engineering
works, and I’ve swung the sledge for both
smiths and boilermakers; I’ve heated
rivets on a hand forge, and “held them
up” while the boilermaker belted them
down ; I’ve melted hundreds of tons of
cast-iron in the largest of roaring cupolas,
“I’m afraid I musf as& you to leave, sir.”
“dressed” hundreds of tons of castings,
both with hammer and chisel and emery-
wheel, and I’ve sieved and mixed hun-
dreds of tons of sand for ironmoulders.
I’ve had odd spells at railroad repair
and, diversely, boiler-cleaning ; I’ve fished
commercially on both river and ocean;
I’ve canvassed for ads. and compiled elec-
toral rolls.
And there have been other jobs and
other jobs until finally, at the age of 50,
I taught myself to punch the typewriter
with all my fingers. Now I rake in a
crust as a freelance writer.
I haven’t been alone on my dead-
end pilgrimage— at the innocent age of
22 I linked double harness with a long-
haired mate, who is still with me, and
had the baby bonus been in force all
through she would have claimed it five
times.
Do I regret my dead-ending? The
blokes, I find, who envy me are those
who, starting at the time I did, got into
permanent jobs and positions, civil ser-
vice and suchlike. After a lifetime of
such they claim that their jobs have
been the real “dead-enders.” — Williami
(W.A.).
What’s Wrong with Taxes?
At a time like the present I get heartily
sick of hearing people with good incomes
from property or personal exertion sneer-
ing at the tax collector and the people
who employ him. Is it a pose, intended
to convey the impression that the sneerer
is well heeled financially, or is it a real
grouch at having to pay for services ren-
dered by the State to the individual?
Surely Australians get good value for
their money spent on Governmental
activities compared with other peoples.
We do not hesitate to tell the world that
this is the best country on earth, which it
most certainly is. Why, then, pull a long
face and snarl over a measly £25 or so
a year out of a good, comfortable
income?
These wailers should take a squint at
the newspapers which record the eager-
ness of thousands of people of high in-
telligence and considerable attainment
who would jump at the chance to come
here and live and pay their taxes smil-
ingly if the Government would let them.
Let us be dinkum Australians and admit
for once in a while that this country and
its privileges and freedom are well worth
the money that is taken from our income
in taxes. After all, our national motto is
“A fair go,” and the tax-collector is as
much entitled to it as anyone else.—
Plain Bill (N.S.W.).
Municipal Government
“Cownsell” (B. 19/7/’39) condemns all
municipal government in S.A. because
of an isolated case that came under
his notice. The municipal employee
hasn’t a very enviable job, anyhow.
Often he gets blamed for the doings of
relief workers who, employed for a day
or two for Government clothing grants,
naturally have not the same interest or
skill. He is constantly under the public
eye, and, like the old chap who claimed
the right, as one of the owners, to accom-
pany the Admiral of the British Fleet to
sea, there are individual citizens who
assume an air of proprietorship over his
activities. On the other hand, as one
directly interested in the affairs of this
particular S.A. city of over 30,000 inhabi-
tants, I have often been asked to convey
commendation of the workmanlike
manner of its employees whether under
immediate supervision or not.
The total income of the city is £61,000.
Its activities range from collecting the
humble garbage-tin to building modern
roads. It administers Dog Acts, Build-
ing Acts, Town-planning Acts, Weights
and Measures and other Acts galore for
the State Government. It controls public
halls, cemeteries, ferries and beaches. It
spends over £5OOO a year in safeguarding
public health, £3500 a year in upkeep of
public reserves and street plantations, and
over £4OOO in street lighting. It con-
tributes £3OOO annually to fire brigades,
£l2OO to infectious diseases hospitals,
while it has only recently been relieved
of £5OOO a year towards cost of police.
After administration and other expen-
diture there remains about £19,000 annu-
ally to maintain well over 100 miles of
made roads, more than 120 miles of foot-
ways, and carry out essential new works.
This last absorbed about £7OOO in the
past year, leaving £12,000 to maintain
and drain this great network of roads.
The annual rates, on homes, mind
you, for all these facilities range from
ss. upwards.
Think it over, “Cownsell,” and those
of like mind. From time to time Thf
Bulletin has commended certain muni-
cipalities for living somewhere within
their income. This city to which I refer
has virtually no bonded debt. In fact, it
is Port Adelaide. — Jae (S.A.).
Green Old Age
‘ Hear, hear! ” to R. Conquest’s long-
life plea (B. 12/7/’39); but efficiency and
happiness in the last lap of life are even
more desirable than lengthening of days.
Mental attitude is the determining factor.
A will not discipline himself,
strive towards a goal, if he does not
believe that goal possible of attainment.
Fullness of life until its close is demon-
strated by the few. Active statesmen,
scientists, Judges and writers there are,
in years qualified as 0.-a. pensioners, yet
giving royally of their talents. What the
few have done most could do in their
own spheres.
Great would be the national and indi-
vidual gain if that second period of child-
like dependence in life could be avoided.
Probably women have progressed
further along these lines in the past cen-
tury than men. Once, her usefulness as
a bearer of children over, she was
dumped on a kind of armchair scrap-
heap. Shackles of superfluous and un-
wieldy clothing were reflections of inane
rules and customs which prisoned the
latent ability of the mind. The very term
“old woman” acquired a patina of con-
tempt.
To-day quite often, her family grown
up, the older woman enters a larger and
freer epoch of life. She consolidates her
experience and skills, works in other
spheres and, by use instead of atrophy
of her qualities, keeps young longer.—
L’F. (Vic.).
Propaganda
Except in war-time there should be
no need to establish a Ministry for
spreading the type of propaganda that
“Ell” describes (B. 19/7/’39).
A changed policy, firstly, on the part
of most of our newspapers which are
publishing “hate” propaganda and giving
the main issues at stake scant attention,
and, secondly, on the part of our Educa-
tion Departments, which are allowing
thousands of young Australians to grow
up with a very hazy conception of what
is expected of them as patriots, and of
what the Diggers died for in 1914-18,
would obviate the necessity for such
propaganda.
The sort of propaganda needed in Aus-
tralia to-day is similar to that which The
Bulletin has been using—that of keep-
ing alive an interest in our own culture
and national affairs and rousing us from
an apathetic indifference towards the wel-
fare of our industries and industrial
workers, artists and writers. — Petek
Piper (N.S.W.).
Slush-lamps and Stars
Far be it for a lowbrow like me to
lock horns with one so sincere and evi-
dently well informed on matters of litera-
ture as “T.E.P.” (B. 19/7/’39) on the
ethics of literary genius, but as one who
has made a good living from my pen for
a quarter of a century in Australia, and
who has helped many an author to pay his
rent by buying or hiring his books to the
extent of thousands of volumes over the


same period, I respectfully claim the right
to point out that the bookshops and
libraries in Australia are teeming with
books from overseas, while the Australian
writer would be starving if he had to
depend on what he can make from his
books—with, of course, the rare excep-
tion in every case.
As a general reader I look with eager
anticipation in my Bulletin each week
for another Reacher-Outer-Bringer-
Backer story by J. B. Blair, or a punch-
drunk yarn of the ring by A. C. Headley,
or even something of the past from my
old and appreciated entertainer, Mr.
Abbott; but I confess without shame
that when I go to the bookshop or the
library and see an Australian on the
shelf my first and almost overmastering
impulse is to pass it by as having either
little entertainment value or something
objectionable in the theme.
Where can I find a current Australian
novel with the charm, or even a sugges-
tion of the charm, of The Good Com-
panions, or a book of essays approaching
in literary entertainment, say, Charles
Lamb? We have writers who can use
their pen technically as well as either of
these, but the book lacks the soul, the
cheery smile of warm life, the clean-cut
issue of intellectual stimulus. Tell me
where there is a novel by an Australian
with the hearty manhood and robust
womanhood, with all the vital qualities
of Australian life in them which I can
find in the verses of Banjo Paterson, a
real Australian if ever there was one, and
nearer the spirit of the nation than any
writer in prose or poesy we have seen.
Granting all that “T.E.P.” says about
realism and escapist books, the joke is on
Australian writers, and the hard cash is
going abroad, and who has a better right
to call the tune than the reader who pays
the piper? Facts are convincing, and
when our novelists wake up to them they
will not need to try to enlist the legis-
lators to put a ban on overseas com-
petitors, as one organisation did recently.
—Father’s Voice (N.S.W.).
Community Singing
It is so easy for us to condemn simple
common pleasures for no better reason
than that we do not care for them our-
selves. As I grow more mature I find I
have to revise my ideas about many
things which, from the arrogance of
youth, or priggishness or pseudo-intel-
lectual snobbishness, I have hitherto
despised.
To give one small example, I have
always felt distaste for such manifesta-
tions of the herd instinct as “community
sings.” I have never been able to under-
stand why people went to these sings or
listened-in to them. Nor have I been
able to understand the mentality of those
who part with a bob or two in order to
have a “Cheerio” sent to them over the
air by hearty “song-leaders.” I' have
recognised that these earnest song-leaders
give up much time to raise funds for
charity, but I have also suspected that
they are more than repaid by the
applause and the giggles of the girls whom
they entertain with their buffoonery.
My attitude towards community sing-
ing and everything connected with it has,
therefore, been frankly cynical. But
recently I forced myself, in an endeavor
to understand, to listen-in to the broad-
cast of a lunch-hour community sing-
song. I found that, though unable to
overcome my personal dislike, I had been
ignoring one most important point.
The people attending the community
sing were enjoying it.
Even to a sceptical listener-in there
could be no doubt about that.. The
singers, probably in the main girls from
shops, offices and factories, were finding
happiness in a temporary escape from the
colorless monotony of their work and
perhaps of their homes. For an hour
they were taken out of themselves, and
probably went back to their work with
an exhilaration that carried them through
the afternoon and perhaps transmitted
itself to others around them.
Happiness is all too rare for most
people, and anything that gives them
even transitory pleasure must be counted
as worth while—for them. — Heretaunga
(M.L.).
The Problem of Parents
The problem of the parent, aged or
otherwise, who lives with its offspring of
either sex is one legislators, humanitarians
and philosophers equally fight shy of. If
the quiver has been a full one it is usually
the eldest or youngest daughter who has
to “look after father” or mother. If the
daughter be an only one she is practi-
cally earmarked from birth for the sac-
rifice. In a middling-sized family it is the
most generous-minded and kindest-
hearted girl, the “fool” of the bunch, who
is denied the privilege that her parents
obviously took.
It is invariably on the woman, daugh-
ter or son’s wife, that the burden of the
parent falls. Her temper is tried, her
vitality drained and her individuality
dimmed.
Living constantly with its originators
has a stultifying effect upon any dis-
criminating person. It sees the faults of
the elder’s character come out in itself,
and has little chance of regulating defi-
ciencies or rectifying errors that are con-
stantly recurrent.
Sex jealousies, called “looking after the
children’s future,” occur. The mother,
by devious methods (largely subcon-
scious certainly, but equally sure) keeps
marriageable females at a distance. The
father, also half-subconsciously, scares
away the young men.
No normal child “loves” its parents.
(Did you “love” yours?) It awards them
tolerance mixed with scorn and respect.
Respect for their good qualities, scorn
for their muddle-headedness and spiritual
untruthfulness.
As the years go on and the parent
becomes older and more nearly helpless
the child, middle-aged by now, is caught
closer than ever, till, when at last “poor
old Mr. Smith” dies at the age of 80 or
90, he leaves Miss Smith, now 50 to 70
and untrained except in domestic and
home-nursing duties, in which she is only
self-trained, to begin to “live her own life.”
What can be done about it? Short of
euthanasia for the old and the cultivation
of self-protective selfishness by the
young, there could be a law prohibiting
the cohabitation of different generations.
Let the old live with each other, their
coevals, and, if they must be cared for,/
let them pay strangers to do it for them.
—Miss Smith (N.S.W.).
These Glamor Girls
Reading the various letters anent
glamor v. industry in young womanhood,
it seems to me that your correspondents
have so far missed the main point.
Isn’t it a fact that the basic reason Tor
marriage is the propagation of the species
and equally true that the greater the
stimulus to the male the finer and more
numerous the resulting progeny?
Now I don’t think that any other fellow
will deny that the average glamor girl is
much more exciting physically than the
most industrious “home body” imagin-
able —and there’s the point.
When the domesticated girl learns to
interest a man as much as her glamorous
sister does, she’ll get him. It’s no good
blaming men for their preferences. They,
like the glamor girls, are obeying natural
laws.
As for the good, industrious, thrifty,
etc., girls, all these laudatory adjectives
can be condensed—at least, in the case
of those of the species I have met—into
“undersexed.” 1 put them down as an
unfortunate by-product of civilisation. —
Alan R. Belford (W.A.).
Letters to Trainees
One practice of the Australian military
authorities is calculated to scare potential
recruits away rather than attract them.
It is the sending of communications to
the trainee in open envelopes.
Lately a friend of mine received a
financial intimation of some personal im-
portance from the officer commanding
his unit. The envelope was unsealed,
and anyone through whose hands the
letter passed could read the contents.
Provision was made for the national
register cards to be sent free through the
post. Why shouldn’t communications
from the military authorities to trainees
receive similar treatment?— Tom (N.S.W.).
Working Hours and Leisure
One argument for a shorter working
week is that, in this machine age,
when all our requirements, and more, can
be produced just as efficiently and far
more quickly than was the case when the
world relied upon man-power, the
workers should be given the benefit of
the saving of time for purposes of more
recreation and leisure.
Of course, it is realised that, leaving
out the question of financial difficulties,
a shorter working week of 40 or 36 hours
naturally would increase employment to
a certain extent; but the further question
arises as to whether it would be desirable
from a psychological point of view to
introduce legislation to this effect purely
for the purpose of allowing additional
time for recreation and leisure.
How many people at the present time
are able happily or wisely to make use
of the period already available for this
purpose? I dare to say that such people
are in the vast minority, and that the
average person finds such free time
hangs rather heavily. In any case, what
facilities are there? Certainly in the
summer we have the beaches, and dur-
ing all seasons the picture theatres, and
some of us have cars; but all these
pleasures require the expenditure of
money before we can enjoy them, and on
a small income, which in the majority of
cases barely is sufficient to meet living
expenses, of what use are these facilities
to us? Of course, a certain percentage of
us would be quite happy to spend addi-
tional hours in the garden day after day,
but the great bulk of us would be left
with time to spend and nothing to spend
it on.
Looked at in this light, it appears to
me that with more leisure we need more
income and, above all, education in the
manner wisely and contentedly of using
such free time as we may have at our
own disposal.— Langdon (N.S.W.).
Many a coy debutante toys with a
cigarette just for something to do, young
bloods indulge in wild drinking to stave
off boredom, poodle-pampering matrons
haunt the bridge-tables in order.to pass
a few fleeting hours. Such misused
hours result because people cannot profit-
ably use their leisure. It seems -that this
is a glaring deficiency in our educational
system. Mental training is necessary,
physical training is essential, but no less
important is training for leisure.
Legislation is drawn up regulating the
working conditions of men and women,
and little is done to regulate the condi-
tions under which they play. However,
this is not a matter for legislators; the
remedy seems to be with the schools.
Music, reading,, writing—all hobbies
should be cultivated and encouraged.
'Youth would then be fitted for leisure,
and the night club would cease to be the
popular rendezvous for leisure hours and
the goal of all adventuring.
Time, said a cynic, was made for slaves.
But leisure was made for men and
women. They have leisure and not the
slightest idea what to do with it. Let us
then educate for leisure, so that the mil-
lions of people trained in elaborate kin-
dergartens, educated in the world’s most
expensive educational system, with un-
dreamed-of ■ leisure offered them by
modern science, may not be hopelessly
lost when thrown on their own resources.
—Aeram (N.S.W.).
Up to Forty Years
The age for army recruits should be
extended to 40 years. In M.L., at any
rate, volunteers are only accepted for
territorial training up to 35 years. Few
men between 35 and 40 saw service in
the Great War, and the vast majority
have had no military training at all. After
all, a man is still regarded as young until
he has passed his fortieth milestone, and
is quite capable of doing his bit with
men a few years younger. — Oscar (M.L.).
Windbags
Why are so many of our intelligent
younger men so apathetic about public
affairs? It is not that politics are unen-
durably dull —far from it. But many
young men take up the study and enter
the arena full of enthusiasm and infor-
mation, and after attending a few public
meetings are reduced to despair. They
work off their suppressed enthusiasm in
some other avenue —generally sport.
The reason is that over every public
meeting there hangs a dense fog of igno-
rance, prejudice and unreceptiveness,
which neither reason nor wisdom can
penetrate. The only thing which can
move it is a strong blast of air from a
powerful windbag.
The windbag always gets his way. He
can appeal to self-interest and call it
Patriotism ; he can exploit sectarianism
and call it Purity, or he can work on
prejudices left over from the last war
and call it Loyalty. It all goes down be-
cause his audience is composed of lesser
windbags, each capable of a fair blast on
his own little dunghill. From the smallest
local committee to responsible public
bodies it is the same.
If the newcomer is persistent he pushes
his ideas forward often enough and hard
enough, and eventually a glimmer of
• light enters the brain of one of the wind-
bags, who becomes so enamored of the
idea that he adopts it for his own and
gets it carried out. Perhaps the origi-
nator gets a tiny morsel of credit and
perhaps not.
But he is an ambitious young man, and
it takes a lot to discourage him. Nothing
will stop him from bringing forward
more new ideas or condemning bad old
ones. He makes a host of enemies
among the windbags; personal antago-
nisms hamper him at every turn; and red-
tape and ignorance hold up his schemes
even after they are adopted. Windbags
beat him in the contest for public recog-
nition ; they get into positions of author-
ity where they can checkmate him ; he
has to amend, compromise and almost
crawl to get a universally beneficial plan
adopted, while old Strongblast Cyclone
gets his through without difficulty.
If the young newcomer has the heart
of several lions, public recognition will
eventually hoist him above the fog ; but
not many can stand up to it.
Meanwhile the windbags of this world
have a lot to answer for. —E. O. S.
(N.S.W.).
Nationhood
Adopt unification in Australia, bring
into operation the Statute of Westminster,
perform any feat of political juggling
you like, and still Australia will not
achieve nationhood. We should have
unification and absolute legislative auton-
omy in accordance with the Statute of
Westminster, but that is a mere formality,
and would not make us a nation.
A nation is built and not created by
the making or repealing of an Act of
Parliament.
Give the local governing bodies power
to provide for more energetic local gov-
ernment and mutual community interests
and foster secondary industries in the
interior,' which at the moment is little
more than a geographical expression.
If Australia is lacking as a nation it
is because we have not sought to know
her, industrially or in culture. —W. L.
(N.S.W.).
“The Men, God Bless Them!”
The other fellow’s mind has always
interested me greatly. If we could only
know what others are thinking, and why
they think that way—well, it might even
end wars! One war that seems to have
gone on since the beginning of time, the
war between the sexes, puzzles me
greatly.
Why do women marry men and then
.moan about it? Yes, I’m a woman and
the mother of six children, but that
doesn’t make me understand what women
have to moan about.
One of my flapper daughters said to
me the other day, “Poor old mother, you
do think men are wonderful, don’t you?”
And she was right——l do.
In spite of their being in many ways
the weaker sex (or perhaps because of it),
I am ready to be on the man’s side every
time. Women are splendid (of course
they are), but a lot of them seem to think
they are doing a man such a favor in
marrying him at all.
Almost any woman’s paper loves to
publish little knocks at men: “One for
his nob.” Tales of downtrodden wives,
men who are unfaithful, or, best of all,
tales of women scoring a win over their
menfolk. If a woman can’t look up to
and respect her mate, I think she should
keep quiet about it, for she is admitting
herself a failure. She had her choice,
didn’t she? She didn’t have to marry the
brute —or I hope she didn’t.
For my son, I hope for the wife with
an “understanding heart,” and for my
daughters I ask “may they be good
enough to be wives and mothers.” —
Pilbarra (W.A.).
Great Dailies’ English
Don’t take the Great Dailies for
exemplars if you desire to speak or write
well! In my opinion much of the de-
basement of the language is due to the
slovenly nature of the writing, in details
and in composition as a whole, that the
daily newspapers use.
I am supported in my opinion by A. T,
Rickard, an American mining engineer
who became an editor of technical maga-
zines and an author. Rickard early noted
the slipshod, error-making way in which
students and members of the engineering
profession spoke and wrote English, and
one of his aims in life has been to secure
improvement in what he feels to be a
very important matter. “Indeed,” he
says, “the engineer does bungle language
deplorably. He makes a fetish of effi-
ciency, yet he shows no regard for the
effective use of one of his most impor-
tant tools —the pen ; he believes devoutly
in accuracy, yet he employs an instru-
ment of precision as carelessly as a small
boy handles a gun.” With some acquaint-
ance with their reports, articles, etc., I
believe the same can be said of the Aus-
tralian engineer and other men of tech-
nology.
I am quoting from Rickard’s Technical
Writing. In his second paragraph he
charges the newspapers with tending “to
spoil the student’s taste for good Eng-
lish” ; a few pages after he says that cer-
tain blunders he has instanced, all per-
petrated by scientists and technicians in
various writings, “come from ignorance
of good usage, and from reading an
illiterate daily press.” On the next page
he says: “If so many of our young engi-
neers write uncouthly, it is because they
read so little good literature.”
He concludes: “If you would absorb
style subconsciously read Huxley’s essays
and Froude’s short studies ; read Ruskin
and Stevenson; read Defoe’s Robinson
Crusoe again, and Dana’s Two Years
Before the Mast; read Washington Irv-
ing’s Alhambra and John Muir’s Climb-
ing the Sierras; but in order to appre-
ciate such books, and learn from them,
you must read intensively—the kind of
reading that learns its lesson when done
once, and once only.”
And, say I, don’t waste too much time
on the Great Dailies— Roswil (N.S.W.).


1
HOW ARE
YOU TO-DAY?
D° you feel sufficiently fit to grapple with the
problems of the day? Do you possess that keen yet
cheerful nature which helps you through?
When feeling well you can face the position with much
more equanimity than the one who is handicapped by
indifferent health.
Remember the condition of the liver largely influences one’s
outlook on life. Therefore, the first essential is to keep the
liver and other organs of digestion in a regular condition, thus
ensuring the clear, balanced vision and active brain that are
so necessary to cope with the difficulties which are constantly
arising.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills enjoy an unrivalled reputation
as an everyday remedy. They stir the liver, act on the stomach,
and promote regular action of the bowels in a gentle yet
thorough manner.
dtmorse’s
ROd
They Make You
Feel Brighter
sdf
sdf
sd
fsd
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss ol weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
f
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
J enclose 24/- {plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
If AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
BITERS
Rt?bizrt K.afgsM*
25 6 Pages
(illustrated).
The Australian Cattle-dog,
the Kelpie, the Barb,
Bush Greyhounds, Fox-
terriers and many
others in this
splendid book
on Dcgs.
Now reduced
to 2/2
(post
free).
$
0^
*0
Ip
ISP
cP
&
\3 V
0
0
a*
c°
e
,1 5®
v\ 6
■*■>## 0
ctf vO $^S* e ’
#
'c^.'S^W'’
V*


MANY STUDENTS EARN £6, f 7, f 7101-
A WEEK After Few Months’ TRAINING
.
L
%i
•1
TRAIN AT HOME
For An Interesting Position In
DIESEL ENGINEERING
Many Diesel Engineering College students have
completed their courses in as short a period as four
months- —qualifying for £6, £7, £7/10/- a week
jobs.
To-day is the Diesel Age! Mines, ships, buses,
trains, aeroplanes—more and more power-users
in every industry are changing to Diesel, the
modern, highly efficient, more economical power.
As a result, new, well-paid jobs are opening up
every day to Diesel-trained men. Still more men
will be wanted in the future in Diesel operation,
service, maintenance and sales, and positions in
other power fields will become scarcer. Post the
coupon below NOW for free booklet explaining
this new motive power, and get the facts about
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE home
study course . . . See how YOU can fit your-
self for a position in this new industry of to-diy
and to-morrow by qualifying for the D.E.C.
Diploma.
NO EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
No Previous Engineering Knowledge Needed
Because of the professional standing of the
College, the practical method of training
and its proved record with 1700 students
throughout Australasia, the D.E.C. course
offers the surest way to success in the
Diesel field.
The lessons in the course are briefly and simply written
by highly-qualified and specially-trained engineers. They
are illustrated with clear, easily-understood diagrams, etc.,
which everyone can follow. You can read them as easily
as your newspaper. Each lesson is checked by competent
examiners, who take a personal interest in every student,
and to whom students may write about any problem
connected with the Course.
IHi
Successful
Remember the motor industry, radio, talkies! Those who
got in early got the best jobs. YOU can get in early in the
Diesel field if you act now. The simple act of sending for
this free Diesel booklet may be the turning point in your life.
The D.E.C. Primary Course deals with the whole subject from
the ground up. It covers the two main sections of Diesel
engineering—TRACTION DIESEL (tractors, motor buses,
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
lorries, etc.) and STATIONARY DIESEL (mining and other power
plants). The fees are low, and may be paid by easy instalments or
in cash, whichever you wish.
Get This
FREE BOOKLET...
This interesting booklet by Mr. W. Kingsford Smith,
Principal of the College, provides you with full particulars
about this simple and efficient Training Course. Sending
for it means no obligation to anyone, but you owe it to
yourself to have the facts. Tear off and post the
coupon NOW.
"•JWWWMII
Si
Va
The Only College
Teaching Diesel Only.
Therefore Concentrating on Diesel Students.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
*>6o
B~ 2 / 8 /’39.
DIESEL
ENGINEERING COLLEGE
SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE,
BRISBANE.
PERTH,
NEWCASTLE.
