

“I’LL TELL YOU WHY I LIKE
S
■
n
.
;:
mmgmmiMmmwmmm
.
■
81
*sim&bsm
mtmk
-
m
%
EXPO'S
CORK TIPPED
AND PLAIN
ft
ft
A
e -■
-
t*
“I like 333’s because, with thousands
upon thousands of other smokers, I find
that 333’s always please.
“ ‘Oh!’ you ask, ‘why?’ Because the
secret is the 333’s blend —an exclusive
combining of finest Virginia tobacco
which makes 333’s absolutely unique in
their qualities.
“If you wish to enjoy the most in
pleasure, in satisfaction, in economy,
you, too, should ask please for 333’5.”
9 - 6d.,
STATE EXPRESS
VIRIiIVIA CIGARBTTEScxra^
_ 1/-, 27 1/6 - - . . Also flat fifties, square hundreds and round airtight fifties
136-6-9
The Bulletin
One Parliament , One Destiny
Vol. 60.—N0. 3105.
Wednesday, August 16, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to f
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Storu^otmq
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 339
The Red Page
"AUSTRALIAN JOURNEY."
Adelaide’s Paul McGuire, who drives the oddly-
matched steeds of poetry and detective fiction, and
handles them very well, has harnessed both to his
chariot for his A ustralian Journey (Heinemann ; Angus
and Robertson). The detective in him has kept an
eye on facts and figures and the orderly presentation
of a case; the poet gives him his wit, his love of the
country and his habit of gloomy prophecy. Together
they have produced a remarkably complete picture of
the Australian scene.
For overseas readers it could hardly be bettered:
he has condensed into its 400 pages all that need be
known of the geography of the country, city and bush,
and of the history, both practical and picturesque; a
study of contemporary life —art, literature, religion,
morals, laws, politics, farming and industrial problems
and tendencies; and a forecast of the great future
that is possible if the dangers of the falling birthrate
and the advancing deserts are overcome. It is a
crowded book, but because it is not divided stiffly into
sections, but flows along like good conversation, the
serious mingling with the amusing, ideas with anec-
dotes, it is never dull or academic.
For Australian readers it has the disadvantage
that too much of the material is familiar. Tasman
and Cook, Phillip and Batman have been heard of
before. So have the Kellys, the abos., Melbourne foot-
ball and Sydney beaches; and the population of
Perth is available in the Commonwealth Year-Book.
Nevertheless, the marshalling of the well-known facts
is of value in clarifying one’s picture of the continent,
and McGuire’s running fire of comment partly re-
deems his borrowings from the guide-books.
Readers here will find most interest in his criti-
cisms of contemporary life. He writes frankly from
the Catholic viewpoint, but he won’t raise any sec-
tarian issues when he says: —
Australia at this time needs above everything else
a vigorous Australianism, a regeneration of her own
spirit: the unions which did so much to create it might
re-create it: but they will need to return to the national
radicalism of Lawson, not to the alien intellectualism of
Marx.
He finds domestic politics a “Mad Hatter world”
of borrowing, bickering and bureaucracy: —
The bureaucracies become more and more the real
governing power, as they are in Berlin and in Moscow
and in Rome. One need not wear a black shirt or a
red tie to turn totalitarian. With every benefit that
the State extends, it extends, too, its discipline. Aus-
tralia already swarms with inspectors of this or that,
and the fife of the Australian, from the cradle to the
grave, is close-bound by the State. It is presumably
what most people want.
In foreign affairs, he suggests that Australian
nationalism, though still strong, has declined, giving
way to imperialism because “Australia’s existence
depends upon British policy.” Perhaps because he
believes that Australia and Maoriland, with “few
friends in a world that grows dark,” are much more
attached to Britain than Britain is to them, he doesn’t
discuss the necessity for them, against whatever diffi-
culties, to have some say in shaping the policy on
which their existence hangs, but he does stress the
folly of ignorant belligerence: —
I do not know any people which has, as a whole,
less sympathy and understanding for alien blood. It
even appears in what should be responsible organs of
opinion, in the press and radio commentaries. Nowhere
have I heard such ill-informed and ill-mannered com-
ment upon the affairs and personalities of other peoples
as in Australia It is an ugly temper, and a dan-
gerous one.
In literature, as in politics, he awaits some spiritual
renewal. Perhaps he is correct in his theory that some
vast new impetus is needed, but the present commen-
tator will contest, equally “stubbornly,” his “stubborn
belief that there is not, in Australian life, sufficient
spiritual nutriment for the full-grown artist.” Great
art, as he says, won’t spring from aping Bloomsbury
or looking for values in'Marx: but it can, at any
time, rise out of solitude or the turmoil of cities, and
there’s no need to go abroad for either. He finds
Australia lacking a synthesis, yet in the closing sen-
tence of his own book there is suggested a synthesis
of more than adequate spiritual power: —
One thinks in exile of the wide land, of the great
sun and the iron hills and the illimitable plains, of the
bluegums by the creeks and the little townships and
the long, dusty roads; and one thinks of the lean,
brown men and the strong women who belong to that
country and to no other; and then one hopes above
all things for life, their life, not death.
A Passionate Victorian.
The further away the past the more dignity it
acquires; it is always the immediate past, the thing
we have just outgrown, that is ridiculous and a licensed
stamping-ground for wits. A few years ago the
great Victorian age was comic side up; all ranting
papas, unmentionables, mutton-chop whiskers, what-
nots and other stage properties. Now it is the
Edwardians who are funny, playing at sophistication
in hats like harvest festivals.
The reign of Victoria may now be taken seri-
ously. Biographers are busy raking it oyer for treasure,
and they are having a great time, for it was the great
age of diaries and letter-writing and of the sentiment
that preserved these things. One of the latest “dis-
coveries” is Margaret Armstrong’s Fanny Kemble:
A Passionate Victorian (Macmillan), a large volume
which not only gives a very full account of a famous
actress, but also of the world she lived in.
Fanny was the second child of Charles Kemble,
the debonair actor-manager of Covent Garden, and
Marie Thdrfcse De Camp, a French actress. As a
child entertainer she delighted the Prince Regent,
whose most amiable trait seems to have been his fond-
ness for and gentleness with children. The Kembles
were the aristocrats of the stage. Mrs. Siddons, “the
tragic muse” who in private life “could curdle the
blood of her servants with a simple Bring me the
beer!’” was her aunt, and “Glorious John” Kemble
was her uncle. People took their theatres very seri-
ously in those days. Covent Garden became the
centre of riots when “Glorious John,” to cover the
expense of a more than usually elaborate production,
raised the price of seats by a shilling. Fanny was
born in the midst of these “Old Price Riots” in 1809,
and they were to affect her whole life.
She was a sprightly little girl, habitually naughty.
When asked, “Fanny, why don’t you pray to God to
make you better?” she answered, “So I do, and He
makes me worse and worse.” To sober her she was
sent, while staying in Boulogne, to witness an execu-
tion. “Perhaps the governess was squeamish, for
they arrived at the Grand Place after the actual
beheading was over, so Fanny did not derive the full
benefit of the scene; but the gutter still ran with
blood, which was pointed out to her, and she was told
that a sad-looking boy near the scaffold was the
executioner’s son, and though she said nothing her
pallor showed that some impression had been made.”
Covent Garden never really recovered from the
Old Price Riots. By the time Fanny was 17 her
father was toppling on the brink of ruin, and she was
thinking of taking a job as governess to help the
family. She wrote a romantic tragedy instead, and
read it to her family. The idea occurred to her mother
that she might have the Kemble gift for acting, and
her father decided to try to stimulate fortune with one
more experiment —another Kemble on the stage.
Almost without preparation Fanny was bustled into
the part of Juliet, and had an enormous instant suc-
cess. She saved Covent Garden for the time being.
She liked success well enough, but she hated the stage.
She loved dancing, riding, the beauties of nature and
her own way.
By 1830, what with the Chartists and an epidemic
of cholera, London had other things to think of than
going to the theatre, and Covent Garden was again
in difficulties. A further sacrifice was demanded of
Fanny. She must go on tour to America. Accom-
panied by her father and an aunt, she set off on the
perilous journey amid the condolences of her friends
to what everyone still thought of as the outer wilder-
ncs3.
She found New York as inelegant as she expected,
“The whole town had an unkempt air; the grass in
the little square enclosed in white palings they called
the City Hall Park had not been cut ; the street was
rough with ruts and mud holes, the sidewalks broken,
and pigs rooted in the gutters.” There were bugs in
the best hotel but no bathrooms; soup, fish and meat
were served simultaneously, and there were no finger-
bowls because, as she was informed when she com-
plained of this, swilling out the mouth at table was
thought to be a disgusting habit. But the people were
kind, and Fanny had immense success.
New York was soon as littered with sighing young
men clutching bouquets as London had been. There
was one young man from Philadelphia, Pierce Butler,
who persisted. He followed Fanny wherever she
went, and won her romantic heart by showing her
waterfalls, for which she had a passion. Niagara
clinched it. Saddened by the death of her aunt, and
hating life on the stage, Fanny accepted him, and he
took her back to Philadelphia.
Fanny had always lived on the top of the world,
a happy home life, a fairy-tale success, adulation from
morning till night, freedom for every whim—but now
she had broken the crust. The Butler family dis-
approved of the marriage. Pierce had chosen a wife
beneath him. They thought her stage career a matter
of shame, her candor vulgar, everything she did “un-
suitable.” To make matters worse, her last action
before her marriage had been to publish her diary,
which contained some very frank comments on Ameri-
can life and manners, to raise money for her father.
Everybody in Philadelphia cold-shouldered her. She
discovered, too, that Pierce made his money out of
a cotton plantation worked by slaves. This horrified
her.
Husband and wife were early estranged, and her
only happiness was in her two baby girls. In her
impetuous way, Fanny demanded to be taken to the
plantation to see the state of the slaves for herself.
It was an epic journey. “All day the train had been
crawling like a discouraged caterpillar through fire-
scarred country, robbed of natural beauty by the rail-
road and not yet civilised; there was not a single
town; ffie few farms looked starved.” Sometimes the
railroad skirted stagnant cypress swamps and pine
barrens. The end of the line was reached at mid-
night. By the red flares of pine-knot torches held
by grinning negroes, the passengers had to descend
and get into stagecoaches. It was bitterly cold in the
crowded vehicles, which plunged through bog and
rocked over patches of corduroy. Bridges were so
insecure that the passengers had to alight and cross
on foot. The journey lasted all the following day.
Meals consisted of fried eggs “swimming in black
grease.” Fanny managed this journey encumbered
with her two children.
In Georgia she threw herself heart and soul into
alleviating the lot of the slaves. She only succeeded
in doing harm. She gave her husband no peace, and
he was sick to death of her. Arrived back in Phila-
delphia, he took the children out of her care and
finally forced her to leave his house. She returned
to England and, perforce, to the stage. Her husband
claimed that her earnings were legally now his, After
two years he divorced her for desertion, and the law
gave him custody of the children.
Fanny touched the bedrock of her tragedy, but
she rallied and remade her life. She left the stage, and
instead gave readings from Shakspeare. In this--
there was a mid-Victorian passion for readings —she
was even more successful than on the boards and
much happier. Shakspeare was her ruling intellectual
passion. Her daughters, as soon as they were of age,
returned to her, and she was happy again. She lived
to be 83, brave, eager and indiscreet to the last.
The style of A Passionate Victorian is somewhat
florid, but it is packed with matter. Fanny Kemble
was a voluminous writer of reminiscences and letters
—all available to the author. She uses her ample
material dexterously, and saves to herself only a
marked feminist tendency
Good Short Stories.
Norah Hoult’s Nine Years Is a Long Time (Heine-
mann) is a collection of 16 short stories —all good.
This writer could take anything, even a lump of coal,
and give it power and interest. The reason, appa-
rently, is that she is writing always because she really
is interested and not because it’s time to produce
another short story.
The plots are slight—an elderly man saying good-
bye to his cronies in a Dublin pub because he is going
into the country to see his very old mother and feels
that he won’t return; a party that misfired for no
particular reason, and disappointed everyone except
the girl who got so drunk that she didn’t know what
happened; a little boy buying a birthday present for
his sister; a woman who hates her husband so much
that she drives him out of the house, only to find she
has lost her life interest; a competition in vanity be-
tween schoolgirls ; a study in failing hope; a village
seduction.
There is poetry in the stories, but it is. homely.
There are acumen and understanding with it, and a
friendly prose style with comfortable similes like
that describing the young priest who didn’t know the
world, “knowing as little of real life as a green pea
in a pod.” . M
The name story, “Nine Years Is a Long Time,’
tells of a woman who has lost her lover after nine
years, and who sees suddenly, through her daughter s
eyes, that she is ageing ; between her and her husband,
out of this conventionally painful complex, there
arise sympathy and understanding. As Norah Hoult
tells it, it is very convincing. She can break the con-
ventions without a false note, and she tackles a deli-
cate problem in psychology without prejudice. “Nine
Years Is a Long Time” has a deep inward beauty and
pathos, and the whole collection has unusual merit.
Hilarious Tragedy.
Angry Man’s Tale, by Peter de Polnay (Seeker
and Warburg), a first novel, is one of those bitterly
funny tormented books about love and the incredibly
low tricks life can play a man, from getting him
arrested for a murder he didn’t commit to feeding him
bad fish at a prince’s table. It is written in the first
person, the victim speaking. It begins in Majorca,
hops in and out of Madrid and Barcelona and ends
m Portugal. The Spanish war doesn’t come into it.
Anthony Trent is a young Englishman of some-
what decayed fortunes who once wrote a book and
hasn’t done anything since. In Madrid he met a
young art student, Constance Smith, and she fell in
love with him. They had two happy months together
and by the end of them Constance was out of love
and Anthony was in. He knew she was commonplace,
stupid, greedy and vain, but that didn’t make any dif-
ference. The book begins with him trying to forget
in Majorca and making a very bad job of it. Con-
stance is written all over the landscape. He wanders
in a labyrinth of hope and fear, and a fat old man,
the familiar he has invented for his own torture, stands
at his elbow all the time making sardonic remarks
about his ridiculous state.
Constance sees him again, tantalises him, promises
to marry him and then changes her mind. The round-
about begins again. On the island he meets a pleasant
English couple, the Gaileys—the husband much older
than the wife —and a man, Fenwick, who is in love
with Marjorie Gailey and stoking his passion with
Wuthering Heights. The reader is turned against Fen-
wick from the start. “Fenwick always wore a tie
in the evening: I never did. He wore to-night his
Old Etonian tie and you could see he was sorry he
couldn’t wear simultaneously his Brigade of Guards
tie Fenwick was a V.C., but that didn’t bother
him much: anybody could get that.”
Fenwick murders Gailey with a hammer one
night. To Trent, falsely accused, this is just one more
inconsequent twist of the nightmare. He finds him-
self in gaol bound hand and foot with Spanish red-
tape. It is all very uncomfortable, but nothing to the
trouble Constance is giving him. Eventually he gets
out and officialdom decides that the murder was an
accident—because a real murder would be injurious
to the tourist trade. Trent finds himself more or less
saddled with the beautiful widow. He takes no
("Red Page” continued on page 8.)


\
a
.
%
m
s §
#il
•
/ < ■’ ,
it \
12G. D.B. Breech Loading Hammerless Gun
W. Cashmore's Hammerless Pigeon Gun.
Cross bolt action, side clips, automatic
safety bolt, steel barrels, choke bored, flat
dead level file cut rib, dark well-figured
walnut pistol grip stock, fine finish, high
£2Bio-
quality. Chambered for 2fin. cases, weight 1\ to 71 lbs.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' i -
£2B/10/-
12 Gauge D.B. B.L Special Hammerless Gun
Charles Boswell's Special Hammerless Pigeon Gun. Anson
and Deeley action, side clips, 30in. steel barrels, both full
choked bored, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, high flat file t
cut rib, Greener cross bolt, proved for Nitro powders.
Walnut stock. AT ANTHONY HORDERNS'. PRICE .... £45
£45
GREENER'S D.B. B.L GUNS AT
Hammerless Gun, made
on W. W. Greener's
Facile Princeps system
of breech mechanism.
Side safe, 30in. steel
£37io'
barrels, both choke, engine-turned rib, with Greener's
patent treble wedge fast cross bolt; chambered for 2fin.
cases, proved for alt nitro powders, walnut heart stock,
neatly engraved. A good pigeon gun. Weight 7|lbs.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' £37/10/-
12 Gauge D.B. Hammerless Gun
Hollis & Sons’ 12 gauge
Anson & Deeley Pattern
Hammerless Gun, treble
bolted action on 'the cross
bolt principle, left choke
/in/
bored, automatic safety bolt, Walnut heart stock, half
pistol grip, Deeley-Edge fore-end. 30in. barrels, side
clips, chambered. For 2|in. cases.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' - £l9/15/-
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
WELL KNOWN BRITISH
CARTRIDGES
BEST
'SMOK eles s_
CARTR ID GE-
Made in Fnfj/ondi
SPARTAN
4 x 6 18-
BOX OF PER
25 100
THE CHEAPEST CARTRIDGE IN AUSTRALIA
The Spartan Smokeless Cartridge is made in England. This well known
make is offered by Anthony Horderns' at, Box of 25, 4/6; Per 100, 18/-
i ARTR IDG
Made in England
Steel-lined Cartridges made by the famous
English makers, Grimsby, England.
At Anthony Horderns—
Box of 25 5/6 Per 100 22/-
H
u
p
ER
RAN
GE
HEAVY LOAD
The Trent Super Range, also made at
Grimsby, England, is a 2\" Cartridge with
2|in. load (U oz. shot). At Anthony Hor-
derns'# Box of 25, 5/6 Per 100, 22/-
TRENT
STEEL LINED
CARTRIDGES
s'g 22 7 -
BOX OF PER
25 100
TRENT
SUPER RANGE
s'e 22'-
BOX OF PER
25 100
THERE ARE ONLY TWO FIRMS IN GREAT BRITAIN
MAKING SPORTING CARTRIDGES, ONE OF THEM
IS TRENT GUNS AND CARTRIDGES LTD., ■
GRIMSBY, ENGLAND.
A HIGH CLASS RIFLE
310 B.S.A. CADET MARTINI ACTION, 25in. BARREL
Rifle 25in. barrel, military rear and front sights. Range 600 yards.
In perfect condition. Weight 6 lbs. A good kangaroo or wild pig
rifle, at a very low price.
AT ANTHONY HORDERNS' 27/6
Same as above, with a new barrel and in new condition ... 50/-
310 Smokeless Cartridges, per 100 19/6
j
• Guns and Cartridges—Lower Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED, SYDNEY
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY 'PHONE M 2401. DAY OR NIGHT


"Reffugitives—Paramours on the Face of the Earth”
The MAILED FISH
BY HAROLD MERCER
DRAWINGS BY ARIA.
‘ ‘ r\ LL about them reffugitives is very terrible,”
f \ said Mrs. Parsley, pausing in her work after
I \ a side-glance at the headlines staring from
the paper open on my table. “Just fancy agri-
cultured people being turned out of their homes to be
prosecuted like they are, and become paramours on
the face of the earth, like the dove of peace that was
let out of the Ark.
“A couple of the poor creatures (not that they
looked poor) came here yesterday ; but I had to tell
them I was full. If I let people like that into the
place, it would become a regular Tower of Babble,
Apart from that, I know all about them prosecutions,
because of what happened to Mr. Smith, who was
Number Eleven ; and I’m not going to risk having my
tenants blown out of their beds by them bombs, as
I thought might happen at one time.
“Had I been told,” pursued Mrs. Parsley, now defi-
nitely abandoning the implements she had brought in
for the purpose of giving my apartments their “doing
out,” “that Mr. Smith’s name wasn’t Smith when hs
came and that he was one of them reffugitives, he
would not have got that flat. Especially if I had been
told that he had been a dipsomaniac co-respondent
writing for the papers in Europe.
“I’m a broadminded woman, and in a general
way I don’t mind co-respondents, who can’t help
themselves very well, husbands being so unreasonable.
But people who live in grass houses shouldn’t be the
first to cast a stone ; and it was very foolish for that
Mr. Smith to have said nasty things about them
Nasties when he was a co-respondent and all!
‘ ‘ |W| R. SMITH seemed a very quiet man, and Mrs.
Smith was a very charming woman ; but there
appeared to be something queer about them from the
start, what with him going all of a tremble sometimes
when he got letters and looking out of the front door
as if he expected someone he didn’t want to see to
come, and one day running through the place and
out of the back gate, as if all the Deemings (which
a terribly bad murderer that Deeming was!) was after
him. Not until Mr. Grobbleboy got that letter, though,
did we know that Mr. Smith was a prosecuted reffugi-
tive. The letter was in German, but Mr. Grobbleboy
had it transplanted into English.
“A very kind and synthetic man Mr. Grobbleboy
seemed. Only for him it might not have come out
about Mr. Smith, leastways until he and that wife
of his woke up one morning and found they were
dead corpses in their bed. He had just received one
of them letters that made him shake like an aspirin ;
they were all marked across the envelope where they
had been re-redressed to him.
“ ‘Excuse me if I protrude,’ says Mr. Grobbleboy
in that polite way of his. ‘I notice you seem to be
upset; and seeing we were neighbors in a way, if I
could do anything’
“‘Me upset? Where did you get that idea?’ says
Mr. Smith, as if he was frightened to own up how
frightened he was. But soon he must have, because
the two of them went out together, Mr. Grobbleboy
having asked him to have a whisky to settle his nerves.
“It was after that that we learnt all about them
Smiths being reffugitives.
“‘I told Mr. Biersgarmstein—l mean Mr. Smith
—that he ought to take at least some of the tenants
into his confidence trick,’ says Mr. Grobbleboy. ‘We
are British, and we won’t stand for a man being prose-
cuted for his opinions like this.’
“ ‘lt certainly looks like the mailed fish,’ says Mr.
Slompack.
“A pretty kettle of fish and chips it seemed! That
Mr. Smith when he had been a dipsomaniac co-re-
spondent, Mr. Grobbleboy said, had written in-
descrately before the new regiment came into power.
He had barely exceeded in escaping from Europe and
saving Mrs. Smith from indignation at the hands of
them Nasties. But they was determined to punish him.
“Them Nasty agents were following them with their
prosecutions ; so that’s why they had to become Smiths.
Them letters was to tell them that them agents were
» on the long trail a-winding, as the song says ; and they
said that if Mr. Smith and his wife gave themselves
up they would be sent back to Europe for a fair trial
of strength ; which, Mr. Grobbleboy said, meant they
would disappear overboard and none would dare ask
what had become of them. And they said, if they
didn’t give themselves up, a bomb might be thrown
under their bed one night which would be the end of
them.
“ ‘l’ll have no bombs in my establishment,’ I says.
‘Anybody who tries to bring bombs in here will do it
only over my dead corpse.’
“ ‘The police ought to be told,’ says Mr. Wassail.
“ ‘Oh, no, no,’ says Mr. Smith, and Mr. Grobble-
boy says that Mr. Smith’s Anne was tied, which it
appeared was a relative of his. Them Nasties were
holding Mr. Smith’s relatives as ostriches ; and if Mr.
Smith went to the police terrible things might happen
to them.
“ ‘Maybe dey vill be shodt,’ says Mr. Smith, which
it was the first time I’d noticed he spoke like that,
which maybe I would’ve if I’d thought he wasn’t
really Mr. Smith, but Mr. Biersgarmstein, as Mr.
Grobbleboy said. And after that I noticed, too, he
called himself ‘Smidt.’
“ ‘Besides that would not save him,’ says Mr.
Grobbleboy. ‘The only thing for them poor people to
do is to keep hidden —to retire the chase, so to speak.
I am sure we will all be prepared to help them.’
< ‘ D UT it was not until I had told them about the
J? man who had come up, very rude and corrupt
in his manner, if you could say he had any manners,
to ask for Mr. Smith that Mr. Slompack and the
other were really depressed.
“After what Mr. Grobbleboy had said, I was
on my garden, as they say.
“ ‘Smith?’ I says. ‘I never heard the name.
“‘What?’ he sneers. 'Never heard the name of
Smith?’
“ ‘There’s no person of that name in this estab-
lishment,’ I said, which, as their name was Biersgarm-
stein, it was a wide lie, as they call it.
“‘Oh, Freetz!’ cries Mrs. Smith, when I told
them, ‘you mus’ fly! You mus’ ged away! Nefer
mind aboud me ; I vill be ’appy eef you vos safe.’
“Which it sounded very noble of her, and showed
how devotered she was; but Mr. Grobbleboy said
that a better plan would be to throw the enemies off
the scent.
“ ‘The Smiths had better go up to my flat,’ he
says. ‘I will go into Number Eleven. If anybody
comes, I am Mr. Smith.’
“ ‘And if anybody merely drops a bomb in for
Mr. Smith, that is your funeral,’ remarks Mr. Slom-
pack.
“‘I am prepared to take the risk,’ said Mr.
Grobbleboy, nobly; and that Mrs. Smith was so
overcome that she took his hand and kissed it, saying
‘Tank you! Tank you, our frien’!’
“Which it seemed very fortunate that it was no
sooner said than done in the eye when them two men
came asking for Mr. Smith, both of them speaking
with that gutter assent which the Major said showed
that they were really Germans. And the way they
went on, after we had sent them to Number Eleven,
as Mr. Grobbleboy had wanted us to do.
“ ‘Gentlemen, you seem annoyed because I am
not the Mr. Smith you are looking for,’ says that Mr.
Grobbleboy, as cool as anything.
“ ‘The Misder Smidt ve vant is nod Mr. Smidt;
and ve know he liffs here,’ one of the men said very
angry. ‘Vere is he? Bevare, my friendt, how you
inderfere in pizziness vich is no goncern of yours.’
“ ‘I tell you this is my flat, an’ my name is Smith,’
says Mr. Grobbleboy, very loud. ‘Now you are satis-
fied’
“ ‘Ve are nod sadisfied,’ says the man.
“ ‘Well, I’ll trouble you to leave my flat, anyway,’
says Mr. Grobbleboy.
“ ‘I would never have thought it possible that
such things would happen in a free country! Why
those men were absolutely threatening,’ says Mr.
Slompack. Which he went on to say that he had
thought what had been said about Mr. and Mrs.
Smith was a grocer’s exaggeration, but he was now
convinced.
“ ‘Well, you see how dangerous their position is,'
says Mr. Grobbleboy. ‘The only thing is for Mr.
Smith to keep very dark ; he’ll have to be virtuously
a prisoner. Fortunately he has some goods he
smuggled out of Germany—rugs and carpets. He
couldn’t take his money out for fear of rousing aus-
picions. They’re really valuable, though, and I think
I’ll be able to help him dispose of them, though it
will have to be done quietly.’
“ ‘We’ll all help,’ says Mr. Wassail. And that
is what they did.
‘‘ A WAVE of symphony went through the flats for
those poor creatures who was in terror of their
lives ; anyway them carpets was very good, and they
were very cheap ; and Mr. Slompack, after he had got
a friend to buy one, sold quite a lot. I bought one
myself for the lounge.
“It seemed terrible them poor people having to
stay in hiding from the inflictions of that prosecution ;
at least he did. Mr. Grobbleboy said that probably
their enemies didn’t know Mrs. Smith so well, and as
long as she was well wrapped up there was no reason
she couldn’t go out now and then. Which he took her
to the pictures.
“The ears of them Nasties must have burned with
what was said about them at the indigernation meet-
ings the tenants used to hold, especially as there was
more of what Mr. Slompack called the mailed fish,
them letters arriving without having to be re-redressed
now. It was terrible to me, when I thought of what
had been said about blowing people up with bombs,
which it seemed ’to be likely to happen any day. I
was on the horns of a tenderhook, not knowing when
the Gordon knot would be cut and that sword of
Occles would fall on us all; but I couldn’t very well
ask them Smiths to go, though I wished they would.
And there was them two men coming again to see
Mr. Grobbleboy, and hinting that he knew where Mr.
Smith was and it would be the worse for him if he
didn’t tell them.
“ ‘But this is nonsense! You could get the police
about that,’ said Mr. Slompack. ‘lf you did it, that
wouldn’t give the Nasties an excuse for visiting dis-
tribution on Smith’s relatives.’
“ ‘You don’t know,’ says Mr. Grobbleboy. Tve
put my soldiers to the wheel of chance and it’s as well
to do the things properly.’
“But one night Mr. Grobbleboy came in, all
excited, from taking Mrs. Smith to the pictures, and
she fell on my shoulder, crying, when she saw me,
which I was just having a few words with Mr. Slom-
pack and the Wassails in the lounge.
“ ‘We’ve been follered —all night,’ says Mr.
Grobbleboy. ‘Those two men ; they sat behind us in
the theatre. They were following us —tried to stop and
speak to us. But I whisked Mrs. Smith into a taxi and
we came home.’
WANTED :
New Story Writers
Each month “The Bulletin” is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in “The Bulletin" are eligible.
Stories must be short —1500 to 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates
£2 2s. for each 1 100 words.
Closing date for the third monthly com-
petition is September 7. The sooner entries are
sent in the sooner they can be read the
judging completed.


“He walked, nervously like, to the top of the
stairs, but he came back as quick as a flash in the
pan.
“‘Quick! You get to your flat, Greta —by the
other stairs,’ he says to Mrs. Smith ; and then to us,
‘Let’s be talking as if nothing has happened.’
“And there was them two men again, tuckulent
as ever, as Mr. Slompack said about them.
“ ‘Mr. Smidt, ve vant a vord mit you,’ says one of
them. ‘Dot lady mit you dis night—she is der Mrs.
Smidt whose Mr. Smidt ve vas looking for.’
“ ‘That lady,’ says Mr. Grobbleboy, ‘is neither
my Mrs. Smith or anyone else’s Mrs. Smith. I don’t
have to explain about any lady who was in my com-
pany to anyone.’
“‘Oh dacity!’ said Mr. Slompack. ‘How dare
you come here and’ ‘ i
“ ‘Ve vant to see dot lady,’ said the man.
“ ‘You’ll see no lady here,’ roared Mr. Slompack.
‘Get out, or we’ll call the police.’
“ ‘And throw you downstairs! ’ said Mr. Wassail.
“‘So! Bud ve gome back. Now ve know!’ says
the man.
“Directly they were gone, which I was glad they
did go, there was such a bustle and to-do as you
never saw.
“ ‘They know definably that Mr. Biersgarmstein
is here now,’ says Mr. Grobbleboy. ‘We must get Mr.
and Mrs. Smith away. Apart from their own safety,
we have to consider Mrs. Parsley; she doesn’t want
anything terrible to happen in her flats.’ Which I was
very glad to hear him say that. ‘Let us go up and see
the Smiths, gentlemen—and Mrs. Wassail. Mrs.
Parsley, don’t let those men into the flats if they come
back.’
i < A LL excitement was Mr. Grobbleboy; and so
was the others ; I heard about what happened
when they came back later, the men having deranged
to take it in turns to keep watch so that them men
couldn’t get into the place during the night. It seemed
that Mr. Smith was terrified, but he didn’t have the
money to get away ; all the money he had been get-
ting had been sent to a solicitude in England to pay
his billy costs for getting some of Mr. Smith’s prop-
erty which was there, though why them billy costs
should be so heavy I don’t know. But them solicitudes
are terrible for charging fees.
“ ‘This is all the money I have,’ says Mr. Grobble-
boy, handing over a roll from his pocket. ‘l’m going
to give it to Mrs. Smith ; it might be safer with her.
You can leave me a note to get some of your carpets
if you like. I’ll see that the rest are sent after you. Not
that I care about the carpets as long as I can help you
from this prosecution.’
“ ‘Tom,’ says Mrs. Wassail to her husband, ‘you
can’t let Mr. Grobbleboy do all the generosity.’
“ ‘l’m certainly willing to help, too,’ says Mr.
Slompack. ‘I can let you have a cheque ; you can
cash it in the morning.’
People came rushing from everywhere to pick
them up and tear them apart
“The Major was willing to help, too; and so
were some of the other tenants. And very glad was
I when them Smiths were gone in the morning, leav-
ing their carpets —which it seemed they had quite
a stack of them in that flat —with the different people,
which they all reckoned they could get their money
back even if they sold them cheap.
“I felt like the Pilgrim’s Progress when the bunion
rolled from his back next day when them Smiths
was gone ; which Mr. Smith was smuggled out of
the back gate early in the morning, and Mr. Grobble-
boy smuggled Mrs. Smith out later the other way to
lay a fall’s tail, as he put it, if they were followed,
and meet Mrs. Smith at the boat. It seemed to me
that matters might divert to the even tendon of their
way now they had gone.
“But never was there such weeping and wailing
or snatching of teeth, as the Bible says pietically, as
there was that evening. It didn’t happen until that
evening, and it began when that man who had first
come up and asked so corruptly for Mr. Smith came
again, and said he happened to know he was living
here. So I sent him along to Mr. Grobbleboy in
Number Eleven, thinking there could be no harm now,
especially as it was only Mr. Grobbleboy he would
see.
“But it appears Mr. Grobbleboy wasn’t there. I
knew that before the tumor occurred, because them
two men we thought was Germans had come, giving
me quite a start, especially when they didn’t speak
with that gutter assent any more, like Germans.
“ ‘Where’s this Grobbleboy, Mrs. Parsley?’ says
the bigger one. ‘He seems to have done a flit. His
flat’s open, an’ there ain’t nothing in it.’
“‘ ’E owes me money, Mrs. Parsley,’ says the
other man.
“ ‘Owes you money!’ I exclaminated.
“ ‘Too right he does,’ said the other. ‘Ten quid
each ’e promised us for coming an’ talking like ’Uns
and ’anging about the place ; an’ all ’e’s given us’
“Before he had included what he had to say, there
was such a tumor upstairs as you never heard, with
the whole place shaking and rocking ; and then that
Mr. Smith and the man who had come asking for him
came falling down the stairs, punching at one another.
“People came rushing from everywhere to pick
them up and tear them apart. Their faces was all
bleeding.
“ ‘Ask him what he’s done with my wife!’ panted
the man who had been fighting with Mr. Smith.
“ ‘You’d better ask Grobbleboy,’ says Mr. Smith,
bitter-like. ‘She left you to run away with me ; and
now she’s run off with another man. They didn’t meet
me at the boat; that means they’ve gone off together.
And they’ve taken all the money. He was cunning
when he said that Greta’d be the best to hold it.’
“ ‘What?’ cries Mr. Wassail, which was there,
with Mr. Slompack, too. ‘You mean the money we
gave you for carpets?’
“ ‘Carpets?’ says somebody; and then I saw
that Detective Cassidy was there and a couple of
others who looked like detectives too, as it seemed
they were, and another man. ‘That’s what were here
about. Hey! This carpet on the floor looks rather
like what we are looking for, doesn’t it, Cousins?’
“Which that other man with them has a look at
it and says, ‘lt’s one of ’em, all right.’
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr. Cassidy, ‘l’m sorry.
I daresay you bought that carpet in good faith ; but
it’s one of a big lot lifted from a warehouse in Mel-
bourne. We only received information yesterday that
they were being sold in Sydney.’
“‘Stolen!’ I cries; and it didn’t seem needful
for me to keep dark about anything with this pretty
kettle of fish. ‘Why, Mr. Smith there, who is Mr. Biers-
garmstein really, and a prosecuted reffugitive, told me
that carpet came from Germany.’
‘“I didn’t!’ he retortoised. ‘lt was Grobbleboy
who put over all them tales about Germany. My
name ain’t Biersgarmstein ; it’s plain Smith; but that
Grobbleboy told me if I’d pretend to be a reffugitive,
which’d help him to sell his carpets, he’d give me
enough money to get to New Zealand
with Greta.”
“ ‘All the same,’ says Mr. Slompack,
looking real upset, which was no doubt
about that pile of carpets which he had
in his flat for the cheque he had given,
‘there was a letter in German.’
“ ‘Grobbleboy fixed that,’ says Mr.
Smith, which it seems his name was Smith
after all. ‘He got the whole idea from
seeing me upset when I got letters from
Dixon there, Greta’s husband, saying he
was going to find us wherever we had
got to.’
‘<\WELL, with all that, I didn’t know
whether I was standing on my
head or my tail. It seemed that that Mr.
Grobbleboy that had seemed such a puf-
fict gentleman and so kind and synthetic
was known to the police as Slim Joe, and
was a sort of Mustard Mind, as they call
it. Mr. Cassidy said they would soon
get him, but I never heard that they did.
The tenants had a lot of trouble about
deceiving stolen goods, but that Detective
Cassidy is a nice man, and he left me out
of it, although I lost my carpet.
“ ‘lt’s a funny thing, Mrs. Parsley,’ says Mr.
Slompack, ‘that the only one who had any luck out
of the whole business is most upset about it. That Mr.
Dixon ought to be very glad to be rid of a woman
who wants to run off with a new man every few
months. But he isn’t.’
“ ‘Anyway, I’ll think a long time before I believe
the next extrocity story,’ says Mr. Slompack. And
of course, as it turns out, them Smiths weren’t reffugi-
tives at all; as a matter of fact the vice was worser,
as the saying goes. But ‘Experience does it’ is a good
motter ; and I’m not going to risk having reffugitives
in my place after all that happening.”
Dreams Reach Their Ends.
Shadow greets shadow.
Voice responds to voice.
Each little wind contrives
A busy noise.
A shutter rattles here.
A board creaks there.
A star gleams through the lattice
On the stair.
The sleepers toss and turn,
While shadows brood
Like beasts in crouching
And expectant mood.
Dreams reach their ends.
Each dreamer wakes to see
Full moonlight on the lake
Beyond a cypress-tree.
N.S.W.
PETER HOPEGOOD.
Rain in the Night.
A sea of sound pours hissing through the room.
But I allow the languid luxury
Of drowsy warmth to soak me with foretaste
Of sleep . . . ah, sleep that fastens kings and clowns;
Smooth-flowing sleep; the long, slow climbing up
An infinite precipice ... a sudden foot-slip . . . down . . .
Down . . . torrent of blood and liquid consciousness.
Listen. The swishing, hurling cold outside.
And dead wet leaves splattered against the panes.
Sleep . . . sleep . . . The marble cliffs grin open; forms
Parade the endless masque; innumerable,
The strange, the strange, sad pageant: time’s grimace.
The pillars tremble —“Lord, we look for a sign.
We look . . .” White daggers crisscross on the sky.
A peal like thunder shudders through the room.
“O Lord, we look . . .” The voices' fade, confused.
Listen. The rain sweeps stuttering by the wall,
And the big wind follows, bragging among the trees.
N.S.W.
A. LESTER McINTYRE.


Old Peter and the
LOAFERS ON
DUGONG ISLAND
BY FREEMAN SANDOM.
DRAWING BY SUCH
IT was designed by Economist and built with the
leisured aid of Fiddler and Larry O’Neil. Circular
in shape, with roof resembling the peaked hat of
a Chinese coolie, it was constructed of blady grass
laid on slender mangrove saplings. Th. walls stopped
short four feet from the floor, which was the hard-
packed sand of the beach. It was cool, comfortable
and, above all, easy to erect. “The minimum of work
for the maximum of comfort,” said Economist, and the
principle was whole-heartedly endorsed by his com-
panions.
For work was their bugbear. “Unnecessary wear
and tear of the human tissues is conducive to a patho-
logical state,” Fiddler was wont to say. Economist
put the thesis in the blunter language of the soapbox
orator. “Under the present damnable system only
boneheads work,” he contended. Larry O’Neil, a
simple man, rested satisfied to be just plain lazy. The
relief-work ganger put his opinion on record in a
conversation with the council’s engineer: “Them two,”
he said, pointing a derisive finger, “are the laziest
blokes I’ve ever come acrost, and the third feller is
the absoloot, blarsted, impossible limit.” The third
was Fiddler.
Fiddler spent most of his ample leisure —the time
of rest after meals and sleeps—violin under chin. He
sat now on an upturned kerosene-case experimenting
with a new variation on that catchy air from “Tales of
Hoffman” oblivious of his surroundings. Economist
sprawled dozing in a home-made easy-chair. Larry
rested his bulky frame on a stretcher much the worse
for wear, his generous sit-upon protruding through a
hole in the wire mattress as if straining for the extra
support promised by the solid floor. He sucked a cold
pipe—cold because, the day being the last before relief
pay was due, the camp had long since been combed in
vain for overlooked cigarette butts and pipe dottles.
He stirred sluggishly and got rid of a wandering
thought which disturbed the placidity of his mind.
“How’re we gettin’ in to-morrer?” he asked of the
roof. “Row?”.
Economist managed to grunt at him. “Row!
Are you dippy? We’re going with Bill Flowers, as
usual, of course.”
“It’s old Pete’s trip to-morrer.”
Economist sat up with a jerk. “How d'ye know?”
“Bill tol’ me this mqrnin’.”
“This morning! Why the blazes didn’t you say
so before?”
“Dunno,” said the lackadaisical Larry. “Didn’t
think of it, mebbe.”
Economist eyed the boomerang-imitating six-
footer with disfavor. “Bonehead!” he said, but under
his breath, and turned to the musician: “Say, Fiddler,
wake up!”
The news having been transmitted, Fiddler reluc-
tantly dropped Offenbach. The situation was a serious
one. To row the six miles to town was unthinkable
labor. The old flattie given them a few weeks ago, the
possession of which had put the idea in their minds
of using Dugong Island as a temporary place of resi-
dence, was intended as a standby only. For convey-
ance to and from town once a week they had counted
on the goodwill of the permanent residents. “Three
fishermen out there,” Economist had said confidently,
“with three motor-boats. No trouble to get in and
out —the boneheads’ll be only too glad of intelligent
company.”
Bill Flowers had accepted the position nobly.
Charlie Thompson, as long as he was soft-soaped
with a pot or two of the right stuff, turned out to be
a moderately willing carrier. But old Peter Holzkopf
baulked, definitely and profanely. He disapproved
of them: he had seen them at work. An obliging
council had given them the job of building a stone
seawall in front of a coconut-planted picnic ground
on the island —probably holding that as they did no-
thing under the ganger’s eye they could do no less
away from it.
Peter would have none of relief-work. In his
time a man made his own job, he contended. “I
peche-de-mer, I dive vor shell oont bearls, I dig in
der ground vor gold oont din, oont I save mine
moneys, else I schdarve.”
“What the hell’re we going to do?” asked
Economist.
“One of us could be sick,” suggested Larry. “Have
heart-failure or typhoid or somethink.”
Economist snorted. “Peter might take the sick
feller in—or he mightn’t. But the other two’ll be left
behind—that’s sure.”
“Couldn’t we all have typhoid? It’s catchin’,
ain’t it? Or measles?”
“German measles, hey?” sneered Economist.
“All of us as right as rain to-day—measles to-morrer
—just in time for the trip!”
Fiddler, having found reality an unpleasant busi-
ness, had turned to his music for escape. He was
playing “On Wings of Song,” humming the words
caressingly—“and gently Ganges f10w5....”
“What tune’s that?” asked Economist suddenly.
“Ganges —that’s a river in Germany, ain’t it?”
“You’re thinking of the Rhine.”
“Yeah, that’s it. Know a tune about that creek?”
“Die Lorelei,” said Fiddler promptly. He played
a few bars of the composition, singing in a pleasant
baritone: “Und ruhig fliesst der Rhein.” He stopped,
thought for a moment, then struck up a rousing
martial air. “Die Wacht am Rhein,” he remarked at
the conclusion.
Economist slapped his thigh. “Got it!” he jubi-
lated. “Got it!”
He explained, and between them they wrought
the idea into a practical plan of campaign.
WHEN Bill Flowers hinted to Peter that he might
have passengers for the morning’s trip, the old
man said angrily: “Led ’em bull! Dey haf von vladdie
oont oars oont arms vor to bull mit, ain’t id?” So
when that night, shortly after Bill had gone back
to his own shack, “der plokes vrom der round hut”
turned up on his verandah, he frowned forbiddingly
and got ready to blast them with invective.
He was forestalled by Economist, who, disregard-
ing the frown, dripped wordy honey. Then: “We’ve
had an argument, Peter, and would like you to settle
it.”
“You being an authority on the subject, no
doubt,” said Fiddler.
Before Peter could give tongue, Fiddler swung
the violin into position and began to play, then to sing.
Peter knew the song well. He saw again the
Rhine flowing placidly between castle-crowned hills,
their green slopes splashed with gold of the evening
sunshine, heard the Lorelei
sing her siren notes that
lured sailors to destruction.
The wistful, plaintive air,
throbbing with nostalgia
for “the things that never
were,” reached beneath his
grim, hard-bitten outer
shell and fanned into
flame the sentimental
spark glowing there. Be-
fore the song was half-
way through he was pars-
ing his gnarled, work-dis-
figured hand across his
eyes, furtively, as if
ashamed of the moisture
gathering there.
Larry, too, was visibly affected by the me o y
charm. Economist studied Peter’s reactions W 1
calculating eye, and when towards the end ot t c s -
the old man abandoned all attempts at camouflage-
and, sitting stiffly upright in his chair all °^.
tears to roll unchecked down his wrm e ,
bea ten face, he was prepared to stake h.s shir
tbe succesb o£ hls sc eme ' , , aD
The last sobbing notes died as a so .
against German rocks, and seemed to be born g
** the gentle swish of wavelets on the beach i outside
There was a long stlence. “Do vasgootl sa.d Petti
last ' oung veer, you ay ', e
Vor vv vou loaf in dis blace about;
yy . c
“The artistic temperament, Peter, rep ie
mist on Fiddlers behalt. He can t ptos
§ en i us on tbe abal °f commercia ism.
“Ach so ?” said Peter vaguely, not compiehen mg
a word of this. “Also you schpeak der Sheiman goo
mine poy.”
“Learned German in school, Petei.
“Besides his mother was a German,” lied Econo-
mist, eager to cement the gatheiing friends ip.
on ’ Fiddler! ,
“Die Wacht am Rhein,” announced Fiddei, an
played—stirring martial music, clash of steel on steel,
challenge of trumpet and bugle, war-cries of trium-
phant warriors and bitter challenge to enemies. He
played “Deutschland Über Alles” and “The Horst
Wessel Song,
Economist, watching Peter’s face as a cat watches
a mouse, was puzzled. The flashing eye and height-
ened color which might have betrayed the stir o
patriotic passion were absent. Instead he saw a hard,
grim mask which his understanding could not pene-
trate.
Suddenly Peter spoke. “Oont you say your
modder von Sherman vas?”
a. flash of comprehension came to Economist,
course t The old man, being among Australians,
was chary of flaunting his patriotic sentiment. Econo-
m;st } though he felt by then that next day’s passage
was in the j r poc hets, decided to clinch matters beyond
doubt
« Sure! » he lie d glibly. “Myself, too, have a bit
of good German blood in me veins—at least, a branch
Qf the family German _ cous i n a big-gun in the
Nazi organisation—trusted lieutenant of Hitler’s, in
ac ' ~ . .
. P f ™ cunously So? He
pointed to Earry. on is voun = ve ei,
man also, ya.


Economist laughed. “Nix.” he said. “Larry is
an Irishman—the next-best thing.” He winked with
the air of a conspirator, and put a warning finger to
his lips. “Hush!” he whispered. “We’re all in the
same boat, mate. Heil Hitler!”
He rose abruptly, his experience as a soapbox
debater warning him that this was the note on which
to leave. “Well, I reckon you’ll want to go to bed,
Peter, so we’ll leave you to it. And, by the way, 1
suppose you c’n give us a lift to-morrer? Fine!
Seven sharp, hey? We’ll be there sharp as razor-
bJades. Well, good night.”
“Got him!” he jubilated on their way back to
camp. “Thrown, hog-tied, branded and earmarked,
and no mistake! Notice the way I played him? Work
on the boneheads’ patriotic sentiment and you c’n
drive ’em to drink slopwater thinking it’s champagne.”
duck-shooting, Peter?” Economist
• pointed to a battered-looking double-barrelled
shotgun snuggling in the cockpit by the old man’s side.
“Berrabs,” grunted Peter, humoring the launch
through a choppy head sea. “Or pirrds vrom anodder
veader, berrabs.”
The three comrades were bunched at the for’ard
end of the cockpit, sprawling at ease, having experi-
mented and found positions imposing the least possible
hardship on the human frame.
“Ducks,” said Larry under his breath, “or burrs
from a wether! The old feller’s dippy.”
“We should worry!” murmured Economist
sleepily, toasting his bared back in the warm sun.
“This weather’ll do me.”
It was a morning to remember—blue sky, blue
sea, golden sunshine over all. Fiddler got out his
violin, played and sang rollicking deep-sea chanteys.
And time passed pleasantly.
Suddenly the peace was shattered by an exclama-
tion from Economist, who had happened to look over
the combing. The others saw now that the launch
was making straight for the naked town beach instead
of following the usual course for the wharf-clad stretch
of shore. They were already in shallower water, as
shown by the change in color from blue to muddy
grey.
“Hey, Peter,” he called, “you’ll be ashore in a
miunit!”
The old man, grim and imperturbable at the tiller,
grunted: “Yoost so.”
The comrades regarded one another in conster-
nation.
“Mad as a hatter!” said Larry.
“Is he trying to ram the police station?” specu-
lated Fiddler.
“Pity he couldn’t,” murmured Economist.
Larry, who could not swim, peered fearfully over
the side. In the muddy water he saw no bottom. He
grabbed one of the set of oars, carried for use against
engine trouble, and lifted it, prepared to jump clear
if the launch should founder.
To Peter this seemed the first move of mutiny.
He grabbed the battered shotgun and pointed it
towards Larry’s ample stomach. “Drob dot oar!”
Larry saw rust caking the barrel. But he saw
also the black, yawning hole which the rust enclosed.
He felt there was ample space to permit a sufficiency
of lead pellets to erupt. He dropped the oar and
sat down with no loss of time. “Ratty!” he thought,
quaking.
“Sling der hoog over,” commanded Peter. “Der
angor, vool!” he explained as he saw their puzzle-
ment. He bent forward and turned off the engine.
Larry crawled round the housing, fumbled with
shaking fingers and managed to push the anchor over
the side. The boat jerked to a standstill and, driven by
tide and wind, swung stern-shorewards. Peter climbed
over the side into waist-deep water and waded ashore,
gun in hand. “Gome on!” he commanded.
Hurriedly the trio obeyed, shivering at the contact
of the cold water added to the nerve-shattering menace
of the gun in the madman’s hands.
“Quig marsh!”
They bunched together for comfort and trooped
up the beach towards the red-bricked police station,
which now seemed to beckon friendlily under the
spreading flame-trees, promising refuge from the
raving lunatic in their rear.
D ILL FLOWERS, returning to Dugong Island the
following day, had three passengers who had
much to tell him.
“At the point of his rusty old gun! ” It was Econo-
mist leading the chorus.
“Me pants drippin’ water,” said Larry.
“Carrying my fiddle shoulder-high to keep it
dry,” said Fiddler.
“Half the kids in town enjoying it,” said Econo-
mist, “not to mention boneheaded adults of both
sexes.”
“And dogs.”
“Blacktrackers and policemen popping out of
every doorway.”
(Continued at foot of next column.)
“Poppin’ their silly, fat heads out of every
window.”
“Grins a yard wide all round.”
Bill chuckled. “I’ve missed something, I see.
What did the sergeant say?”
“He gaped to begin with,” said Economist. “Then
Peter grounded his gun and stood to attention as if he
was on parade. ‘Dis mens,’ said Peter, ‘iss schbies,
Sherman schbies. Dey haf to me convessed,’ he said,
‘Dey play der “Horst Wessel Song” oont “Die Wacht
am Rhein,” oont dalk dreason mit Auschtralia,’ he said,
Then he points to Fiddler and explains that he’s half-
German. Larry, he reckons, is a dyed-in-the-wool
I.R.A. man. And I, if you please, am related to Von
Ribbentrop or Goebbels, or both of ’em. We’re pre-
paring plans of North Queensland fortifications, and
taking soundings at Dugong Island with a view to
landina a German army there if war comes.
“Then he smacks himself in the ribs like a mum-
mified gorilla. ‘Von Sherman mans porn,’ said he.
‘But I haf in Auschtralia fordy years schtobbed, oont
von Auschtralian mans begome. Ven I in Shermany
schdob I vight vor Hitler,’ he piped, ‘but now Ausch-
tralia mine goundry iss, oont I vight vor him.
Bill laughed. “I should’ve warned you not to
monkey with the old man. And the sergeant?
“Oh, he gavfe Peter a fine lather of soft soap. And
when the old fool had gone he told us to clear out
before we swamped the station.
“Get back to your wall,” he said, thinking him-
self funny, “and when it’s built your cousin can land
his army under the coconut-trees. You’re too lazy
to be spies or anything else.”
Economist chuckled. “Me lazyV’ he said. “Us
lazy! Why, I’ve stood on a soapbox spruiking half
a day at a stretch, and if that’s not hard work I’d
like to know what is. And Fiddler”—he pointed to
the violinist, who was picking dreamily at his
instrument—“practising from daylight to dark,” he
whispered.
SHEEP! SHEEP! COME HOME
BY E.O. SCHLUNKE.
I’VE seen blokes sacked for all sorts of funny
reasons, but only one for taking too big an interest
in his job.
It happened when I was working on a sheep
station belonging to a chap called Turpin.
Turpin was a pretty tough customer, and proud
of his sheep. He was always drafting them and pick-
ing out the bad ones until you’d’ve thought they was
all perfect. One day, just before shearing, he’s at it
again. The weather is hot and the sheep is stubborn.
The dogs and men was tired and fed up ; they couldn’t
get the sheep to move through the race, and if they
did get a decent run on Turpin would spoil it by
stopping a sheep to see if it was only ninety-nine per
cent, perfect. Things was in a bad way, and Turpin
was cursing everybody and everything when a
stranger hove in sight, carrying a swag.
He never said a word about wanting a job, just
dumped his swag, jumped over the fence amongst the,
sheep, and started to shout and holler in such a cheer-
ful, enthusiastic voice that all the dogs was up and
barking and racing about as if he was the only man
they ever worked for in all their lives. The sheep
seemed to catch the excitement, too ; and when Turpin
tried to stop any of them in the race he nearly got
knocked. The job was finished in record time, and
the stranger got a job on the spot. Ben Richards
was his name.
Just then Larkins, the bloke who owned the place
next door, came riding up. He was an easygoing, care-
less sort of chap who never had enough feed on his
place or kept his fences in order, so there was a good
bit of trouble between them, and Turpin hated him
like poison.
“Ha,” Larkins says, jovial-like, “culling them
again? What’s wrong with this lot? Eyebrows not
properly arched, or is there something wrong with
their table manners?”
“Have a look for yourself,” Turpin says, very
short.
Well, Larkins has a good look, while Turpin
glares at him until he seems to get an idea. When
Larkins says he can’t see anything wrong with the
sheep Turpin has culled out, he says, “Yes, they’re
all right, long fine wool, big frames; and, as for con-
stitooshun, the best sheep you’ve got is a consump-
tive, sickly, devil-gripped cripple compared with them.
What about buying them?”
He said it in a nasty sarcastic way as if he thought
that a bloke who was as careless as Larkins was
wouldn’t be able to afford to buy good sheep. It
was just to rile him into taking them, because even
a fool like Larkins knew that buying sheep off of a
next-door neighbor was the wrong thing to do.
So Larkins bought them—-at Turpin’s price, of
course —and thought he’d got a good enough bargain ;
and so he would have if it hadn’t been for the under-
tow in the works, so to speak.
The point of it all was in the kind of sheep Turpin
sold him. All he said about them was true ; they was
perfect sheep. The only thing that was wrong with
them was, as Larkins said in his joke, their manners.
They was real outlaws who got through any fence
that was the slightest bit weak. Turpin was going
to truck them away to the market, but when Larkins
came on the scene he’d thought of a way he could
sell them twice. He knew they wouldn’t be satisfied
with the poor feed on Larkins’s place, or be stopped
by his poor fences, but would be back in a few days;
because a sheep might be a silly sort of animal, but
it always remembers where it got a good feed. Once
they got back, seeing they had the same brand and
earmark as the rest of Turpin’s sheep, Larkins wouldn'f
be able to pick them out.
Turpin only knew them by their faces ; he was
so used to seeing them in the wrong paddocks and
had a terrible good memory for sheep, being that kind
of man. So Larkins took the sheep home, and Turpin
just waited.
KJ OW this fellow Ben Richards no sooner has his
N job than he sets out to prove what a wonderful effi-
cient worker he is. The next morning the boss gave
him his work for the day and then went to town. Ben
finished his job by dinner-time and then looked round
for something else to do. He remembered the sheep
deal, and he got a wire-strainer, and tightened up the
boundary fence on Larkins’s side so tight that you
could play a tune on the wires. When Turpin came
home he told him what he’d done, expecting to be
praised a lot more than he was.
But Turpin wasn’t so easily beat. The next day
he set fire to some dry trees alongside Larkins’s fence.
Ben came in very late that day with a look on his face
like a dog that’s caught a rabbit and expects to be
patted. He says to the boss: “When I was coming
home I noticed that one of the trees that was lit was
likely to fall over the fence, so I fastened a couple of
strong wires to pull it round when it falls.”
The boss only grunted. But Ben was so worried
about that fence that next morning he was up early
before breakfast to have a look at it. He reports that
the wires has broke and let the tree fall over the
fence after all. He was quite worked up about it;
couldn’t make out how the wires could break like they
did, and wanted to go and mend the fence straight
away. But Turpin said, sarcastic like, that he could
attend to that, and sent Ben to put a mob of wethers
in that paddock. So Ben went off with a worried look
on his face.
It was only a few days later that Larkins come
over to report that the sheep he bought has dis-
appeared.
“Don’t come looking here,” says Turpin ; “didn’t
you notice that I strained my boundary fence specially
to keep them out?”
“Yes, but,” Larkins says, “I saw where a tree
fell across it. They might have got through there
before you mended it.”
“Impossible,” Turpin says. “I had that repaired
before the echoes of the tree falling down had died
away. But if you like you can have a look for ’em
in the mob in my paddock.” And he grinned to him-
self because he knew that the sheep he put there was
exactly the same as the ones he sold Larkins. Larkins
knew he had no hope of picking them out, and realised
that Turpin had put one over him and that he was
likely to be the laughingstock of the district.
There he stood, chewing at his pipe and kicking
the ground and looking very , wild for an easygoing
man, when up comes Ben in his bustling, efficient
way. “If you’re looking for your sheep,” he says to
Larkins, “they’re in the paddock next to your place.
You’ll be able to pick them out because I marked
ours with raddle when I put them in. I expected some-
thing like this to happen.”
THAT was how he got the sack for taking too big
an interest in his job. Larkins was glad enough to
put him on after that, but he didn’t last long there
either. He took charge of the place, and ran it so well
that he made Larkins feel like a useless loafer ; and he
couldn’t stand that, even if he was terrible easygoing.


REASONS FOR THE PHENOMENAL SALES OF THE
IMPERIAL COMPANION” PORTABLE
STATE DISTRIBUTORS.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Dobell Pty., Ltd., 107
Pitt Street, Sydney; Johnson & Hey, 37
Hunter Street, Newcastle. QUEENSLAND:
L. Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd., Creek Street,
Brisbane. VICTORIA: Geo. Raitt & Co.,
Ltd., 40 Queen Street, Melbourne. S'OUTH
AUSTRALIA: Holdsworth & Coy., Ltd., 51
Grenfell Street, Adelaide. WESTERN
AUSTRALIA: Burridge & Warren, Ltd., G 9
King Street, Perth. TASMANIA: J. C.
McPhee Pty., Ltd., 99' Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND AGENTS: Armstrong &
Springhall, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wanganui.
BECAUSE It’s the lowest in price. No 20 per
cent. DUTY or 10 i>er cent. PRIMAGE,
and this is passed on to the pur-
chaser.
BECAUSE It’s the best made. Made from
BRITISH steel. We have yet to
hear of an Imperial Portable that
ever let a user down mechanically.
BECAUSE It’s COMPEETEEY Standard. Special
keyboards and any special type 5s
available at no extra price.
BECAUSE of its light weight. Weighs only
12JIb. and yet NO fealure is sacri-
ficed.
BRITISH MADE—AND THE BEST IN THE
WORLD.
FREE COURSE IN TYPEWRITING—
for every purchaser of a typewriter. A thoroughly
complete and concise Manual. Any student who con-
scientiously completes this course cannot fail to
become an expert typist.
sr o
Safe and Profitable—
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
ffice directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (26/1 /’3B). Policy-
olders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Corner King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Buit,ding, 118-12 G Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
special notice. More adventures befall him, ail
humiliating, and in Portugal he gets typhoid fever.
The real delirium is not so very different from
what went before. Marjorie Gailey is now able to
show her devotion. Trent realises that she is in love
with him. He asks her to marry him as there doesn’t
seem anything better to do. She is very happy, but
the reader knows well enough that she will soon find
out that the love is all on one side and that then her
torture will begin and it will be the same story ail
over again.
This isn’t realism, but it is very real in spots. It
doesn’t pretend to portray the objective world but just
a slant of it through the eyes of someone who has
been very severely upset. It is written with studied in-
consequence, no explanations, no long descriptions ; a
person or a scene is caught in a sentence, often a
very adequate one like this: “The train thundered on
and the landscape got browner and browner, like
going into the Spanish rooms after the Italians at the
Louvre.” Or the Chief of Police, “He looked like
a prosperous American banker, or a man that had a
chain of drug stores in the Bible Belt with an old
mother thrown in.”
People and objects float about. The author leaves
it to the reader. There is a toothbrush that is always
cropping up and a Kerry dog of character who is
quite the most pleasant person in the book. You
might almost think that Trent married Marjorie Gailey
for her dog. It is a long book, and an effective one.
Ethel Mannin's Autobiography.
Ethel Mannin says of her Privileged Spectator
(Jarrolds ; Angus and Robertson) that it is mainly
about herself as a writer, a description which indi-
cates fairly accurately its interest and its limitations.
It is not another Confessions and Impressions aimed
at the public in general, but a notebook on her literary
life and on her novels for the attention of readers she
has already won.
It is not, of course, without its share of general
interest —literary anecdotes, travel notes, political dis-
cussions ; some account of the embarrassments she
suffered after the too-personal Confessions, and the
story of her marriage in 1938, made “for this and that
family reason” as “the supreme concession to conven-
tion.” She writes of the Confessions .
Perhaps what I am most impatient of to-day in
regard to this book by which I am so persistently
judged is its youthful cocksureness, its flamboyance
of style and its emotionalism of manner. This, however,
is no apologia. What I have written I have written;
for good or ill the book was an entirely honest piece
of work... .Certain things still stand the opposi-
tion it expresses to the mass-production mentality, the
corruptness of the existing social system I still main-
tain that behind all the taboos and moral strictures
concerning sex there is the hate and fear of sex pro-
duced by frustration.
Politically, the author says she is passionately an
Anarcho-Syndicalist—a creed which, however alarm-
ing it sounds, allows her to cherish a photograph of
the Duke of Windsor, to approve of Mr. Chamber-
lain and to disapprove very strongly of Stalin, the
Left Book Club, and Messrs. Eden, Churchill and
Duff-Cooper. She has obviously been influenced by
Aldous Huxley, and if her pacifism, like his, won't
change the course of a wicked world, it is, at least,
genuinely pacific. Commenting on the Czechoslovakian
crisis, she is indignant at the gang who talked peace
but asked for war:
If we had been plunged into a second world war
over a few strips of land no bigger than a blade
of grass, would the Labor party “Socialists” and the
Communists all have marched to the nearest recruiting
office, headed by Harry Pollitt, Victor Gollancz, Harold
Laski and Uncle Tom Cobley and all? “Save Peace,
Save Democracy!” had been their clamorous cry on
half a million leaflets and at innumerable public
meetings before the event; but suppose it hadn’t saved
peace after all? Would they then have said, “Oh, I
say, it’s come to a war, we didn’t mean that, you
know; of course we’re against war”?
Besides observing Leftist phenomena, Miss
Mannin has been a “privileged spectator” of coun-
tries from London to Lapland, and of literary circles
from that of Hodge the taxi-driver to Llewelyn Powys’s
retreat in Dorset and the Yeats-Gogarty-Higgins group
in Dublin. She discusses A. S. M. Neill and educa-
tional theories, Herbert Read and Anarchism. It would
be a better book if she had selected her material more
carefully, and if she could refrain, at critical moments,
from going off into a swoon of dots . . .
Novel with Banners.
Mary Dunstan’s Banners in Bavaria (Heinemann),
is a cold novel that tries to warm itself up by being
topical. It begins as pure fiction, gets as close to the
European situation as it can, stuffs itself out with
propaganda, then takes another turn and is just a
novel after all.
The story is ingenuous enough, but not as in-
genuous as the characterisation. Julian Eagle is a
British captain of industry who makes super motor-
cars at a large profit and cares for nothing else in the
world. He gets an idea for a new sort of car that will
make even more super profits, but he needs a super
chemist to help him. There is only one man in the
world who can do it, and that is the Bavarian Dr.
Max Rehling, who is not only a super chemist but a
super doctor and a super psychologist.
Eagle discovers him in a little village with his
wife Martha and his daughter Hanne eking out a
scanty living with a guest-house. He is politically
under a cloud for independence of thought and speech
and has lost all his university appointments. Eagle
is amazed that he does not jump at the handsome
offer he makes him. He stays on, and with Martha’s
help tries to persuade him to leave the Germany he
loves and work for filthy lucre in England.
Gradually Eagle discovers the family secrets.
Hanne is in love with a Jewish painter, Pepi, who is a
fugitive in the hills, forbidden alike to leave the coun-
try and to make a living in it. A guest whose advances
Hanne had refused eavesdrops, discovers her secret
meeting with Pepi and informs the police. The family
is in danger. Rehling consents to go to England so
that he can earn money to buy Pepi out of Germany.
The great nobility of the old man’s character works
on Eagle’s hard surface. The doctor practises psy-
chology on him. He wakes up to human values, and the
awakening is so abrupt and violent that Eagle murders
the Chief of Police in Munich when he refuses to give
up Pepi’s passport.
There are no witnesses, and the murder passes as
suicide. Eagle gets Hanne and Pepi over the Swiss
border, then returns and confesses to Rehling. The
doctor advises spiritual restitution. Eagle need not
give himself up to the police ; he can pay his debt to
mankind at large by a reformed life and by dedicating
himself to service instead of gain. There is no need
for Rehling to go to England now; he can remain m
his village retreat poor but happy in the thought that
all things are working toward Germany’s regeneration.
The story —disregarding lengthy discussions of
European affairs —ties up to the Bible story of the rich
young man who was bidden sell all he had and give it
to the poor. The characters are all ideas illustrating
this and that, never allowed to become human beings.
The sentiment is laid on thickly.
The Condition of Australian Education.
Review of Education in Australia in 193 S (Mel-
bourne Uni. Press) is a publication of the Aus-
tralian Council for Educational Research—a solid
tome that deals faithfully with its subject.
It would appear that methods are keeping more
or less abreast of the times. Radio broadcasts to
schools, initiated by the A.B.C. in 1932, were heard m
1600 schools last year. Talks for primary schools
dealt with history, English, art, music, science, nature
study, current events, health and geography, and there
were also evening sessions devoted to the teaching of
Japanese, French and German. In Victoria some
schools combine radio talks with pictures from a film
strip projector—a “film strip” being a collection of still
pictures edited to demonstrate effectively some educa-
tional subject. In addition to these, in all States, a
fairly large library of “movies,” some with sound-on-
film, is being built up, and the care and management
of the cinematographic projector and its fodder have
been added to the teachers’ training syllabus.
Less flattering is the report on the condition of
school libraries and of library facilities generally. Pro-
gress is being made, but slowly, following the damning
indictments in the Pitt-Munn report. This is impor-
tant. A great educationist in the specialised field of
music, Von Biilow, used to declare: “Good teachers?
There’s no such thing. There are good pupils.” An-
other, more general authority in a candid moment
declared that there were two sorts of pupils in schools
—those who did their best to avoid being educated, and
those who couldn’t be prevented from getting an edu-
cation so long as they could get books to read. It is
the latter class that seems most important, and for its
needs it must have books —the more the better.
Reviewed Briefly
Fiction . , .
The Goldfish : Ann Stair (Robert Hale). In Russia
on a holiday she was charmed by the scenery and fell
in love with a party leader, only to realise at the
bitter end that East is East and West is West and never
the twain should wed.
Three Went West: Gilbert Anstruther (Angus and
Robertson). Australian love and adventure story set
mainly in Far West and Red Centre mining settlements.
Begins with a man shooting a young woman, sister of
the girl he loves, with a bullet intended for his brother,
who is his rival in love. The feud goes on for 20 years
and ends happily—or at any rate satisfactorily —in
a mining camp on the northern edge of the Nullarbor
Plain. The author always has the threads of his story
well in hand, and knows how to keep things moving.
He seems to know the life. His details are convinc-
ing and some of his descriptions rather striking. An
aeroplane smash strikes an authentic note of modern-
ity in the Centralian landscape.
The Violent Take It by Storm: Dorothy Mac-
kinder (Sheed and Ward). Devout and reverent story
of what a famous actress did for the soul of a very
worldly Monsignor in return for what he had done for
her in the days when he was an obscure priest and she
a street-walker.
Verse . , .
Into the Desert: Paul Hasluck (Freshwater Bay
Press, Claremont, W.A.). Mixed bag of lyrics and
Whitmanesque orations, sentimentality marring one
type and lack of form the other, but neither without
their moments of grace or genuine emotion. A song
on “An Old Australian Churchyard”: —
And, lo, at noon, where sunlight falls
Trembling on shaded stone,
The careless wind of English leaves
A golden wreath has thrown.
And “Discontent in the Suburbs,” between “a palisade
of skinny poles and whining wires”: —
Accumulating heaps have shut us in; we have no music
but their labelling names.
Wood, brick, steel, cloth, the germ-imprisoning grain,
wheat, oats and rye.
Whose green waves filled a field voluptuously,
Are entries in a book, a thing to sell, and no more
fill the brain with the birds’ cry.
General . . .
Christianity or the New Paganism ?: Henry
Brinton (Frederick Miller). Yet another essay urging
that Britons should liberalise and rationalise Chris-
tianity so as to make it an offset to the pagan ideals
of totalitarian States. Mr. Brinton only succeeds in
showing that the task is pretty hopeless.
How to Travel at Home and Abroad: published
in Sydney by Will Lawson. A handy little booklet
which won’t take up much room in the traveller’s
pocket and take only sixpence out. It covers all
routes to England—one wandering round by China —
with details of hotels and places to visit; food, drink,
passports, barbers and vaccination.
Christopher Brennan : H. M. Green (Angus and
Robertson). “To give some general indication of the
framework of Brennan’s discourse in order to help
break down the mainly imaginary bar between Austra-
lian readers and the finest of Australian poets.” It’s
a careful, intelligent study, but a new, cheap edition
of Brennan’s poetry is the only way of breaking down
the barriers.
“Art in New Zealand”: Book reviews have dis-
appeared from the June issue. There’s an article on
Schubert, reviews of art shows and notes on the pro-
posed centennial exhibition. Illustrations of Margaret
Butler’s sculptures of Maori heads are .interesting.
“Australia”: Ure Smith Pty., Ltd., Sydney. Art,
architecture, furnishing, book reviews and general
articles on Australian life. An attractive new quar-
terly.
I, too, remember the birth of the Aus-
tralian Society of Irresponsibles (B. 19/7/’39). Writ-
ing to me on the green-and-gold enscrolled paper of
the society, Joseph Furphy lamented that because of
my ‘ recessed eyes” there was no hope of member-
ship for me. Furphy had a genius for linking like to
like. He would forward me a poem or short story of
some aspirant for fame with the injunction, “You are
requested to comment on the enclosed. Send me the
result of your cogitations, and post the ‘pome’ to
lizer-Jane for her consideration.” Thus a group of
people, some of whom never met, merrily (and/or
otherwise) engaged in an interchange of thoughts. Of
that happy group of writing friends of Joseph Furphy
but two are left.


■tew
V.,
isis^s
m-
*■:■<:
£*J&
'ssaS&vW
■
«S* -St
i« e
-
9M: :
aow»i»if«SS
M
. ‘
am* wm *
#
* ■■ >
■
5,-
*s ...
TOWARD THE
T TIGHWAYS are a positive symbol of a people’s progress. For
where roads are being built there commerce, industry and
agriculture thrive! Yet to move the products of farm and factory
more swiftly and economically, to bind Australia even closer together,
for both development and defence, there is need for still more and
better roads in this land of ours.
Pictured here are scenes which could be duplicated many times
throughout Australia to-day. And they tvould he scenes, not only
of road construction, but of " Caterpillar ” Diesel equipment engaged
in the task.
In fact, numerous roads are now in the making largely because of
economies effected by "Caterpillar” Diesel Equipment.
With sure-footed, ground-gripping tracks . . . tremendous power
. . . unusual stamina . . . and a sparing use of low cost fuel,
"Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors accomplish sufficient savings on one
road to encourage and aid in building others!
But there is more to making a highway than uprooting trees,
clearing land, moving earth and bulldozing rocks with tractors.
Surfaces require blading and grading . . . shoulders have to be
made . . . and ditches and banks cut. ... In all these operations
"Caterpillar” Road Machines and Diesel Engines contribute additional
savings!
I
rr
ii
ap
,
KS
m
H gg
.; /■■sr.y -j.'
WaU^**'
4:! <*CPpk^
■ ~■.& -
> <: *' „ ■
m ■ *
itfMkl
■
SB
In fact, the greater the use of "Caterpillar” Equipment in Australia,
the further your money as a taxpayer will go . . . whilst the heaviest
work of construction is taken from the backs of men and placed on
machines . . . where it belongs.
Truly, new highways are a prophecy of the Commonwealth of
To-morrow ... of greater security and more abundant prosperity.
From them grow increased primary production . . . quicker access
to markets . . . irrigation schemes . . . airports . . . railroads . . .
bridges and dams, built with the aid of "Caterpillar” Diesel Power.
And the uses of "Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors are not limited to
road construction. You’ll see "Caterpillars” at work in agriculture
... in timber, mines, quarries and manufacturing plants . . .
wherever operating economy and dependability point the way to
lower costs and greater profits.
The upper picture shows a "Caterpillar” D 8 Tractor with LeTourneau
Bulldozer, carving a road through rugged bush country, pushing
rocks and earth before it at a fuel cost of only £1 per 8-hour day.
The lower picture is of a "Caterpillar ” D 7 Tractor and 8 cubic-yard
LeTourneau scraper, owned by the Victoria Country Roads Board,
working on Hume Highway near Broadford. This outfit is moving
earth at a new record low cost, and will completely pay for itself in
a few months in the savings effected on this 90,000 cubic-yard job.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTRIBUTORS
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty.,
Ltd.,
102-124 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane, S.l.
P.O. Box 21, South
Brisbane.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty.,
Ltd.,
Unwin's Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Victoria Or Tasmania:
William Adams &
Company Limited,
521-523 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box No. 4304,
Melbourne, C.l.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor
Company,
231-239 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 524 E.
Western Australia:
Wigmores Limited,
613 Wellington Street,
Perth.
Box 883, G.P.O.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
9blt li'me tflate viellcwne&sandlouqwt
IN THE "LAND" OF CHARLES DIBDIN
A visitor to London taking the tram at King’s Cross Station and proceeding a short distance along the Peiitonville-road will alight at St.
John-street, on the right, and one block down will come upon part of the site occupied by Sadler’s Wells Theatre, famed of old, and
now enjoying a sort of “Indian Summer,” the main entrance of which is in Rosebery-avenue, part of an improvement scheme in this
not too lovely locality, and named after the first chairman of the London County Council. In 1683 a musical-hall owner named Sadler
found a mineral spring close by his premises. It became a fashionable resort, and so remained till 1770, the vaudeville “show” proving
an additional attraction. Towards the end of the eighteenth century, fashion deserted it; still, with the famous clown, Grimaldi, the theatre
remained popular with the masses. From 1842, Shakespeare’s plays were staged for 20 years, when a decline set in leading to a “twice-
nightly vaudeville show.” So it went on, and in the main is still going on, with occasional attempts in more serious musical directions. The
chief interest in the locality lies just at the back of the Theatre in Myddleton Square, where, at No. 6, Charles Dibdin, famed as the
author of “Tom Bowling” and other songs, lived, but died at Camden Town in 1814. Myddleton Square belongs to the past, but not
so the work of the great songster who resided there. The sea songs of Charles Dibdin constitute an inheritance the British race is never
likely to undervalue. Whatever form naval warfare may assume, however the technicalities of the maritime profession may be altered, the
spirit of the British seaman has shown itself to be unchangeable. He is still the same hearty, fearless, generous, simple being Dibdm
described him. Dibdin’s songs have done much to keep up the esprit de corps, and may yet do still more in perpetuating that chivalrous
spirit so marked a feature in the profession of Nelson, Duncan, Jervis, Blake, Beresford, Jellicoe, Scott and Beatty, to instance a very
few. In these times of stress and uncertainty, they have a double value, first as a means of preserving the sense of our old maritime
humor, and second as a descriptive of the habits and feelings of those heroes of all ranks who did so much for the flag and in building
the Empire. Few are not familiar with some at least of Dibdin's songs. Who has not heard of “Tom Bowling,” “ ’Twas in the Good
Ship, the Rover,” “The Jolly Young Waterman” and “Poor Jack.” Charles Dibdin has been called the Walter Scott of sea-song writers.
Posterity owes him a big debt. During the long wars of the Napoleonic era his naval songs conduced more than anything else to the
satisfactory manning of the fleet.


BLOCKING THE TRAFFIC.
“Australia is a nation divided....speaking with several voices and shackled by constitutional limitations.”— Minister Harrison.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252138; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon <& Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth:
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
ONE PARLIAMENT. ONE DESTINY.
Mr. Spender, M.H.R., who is assisting Mr. Menzies
in the Commonwealth Treasury, by way of qualifying
for a higher post, spoke in Sydney last week at a meet-
ing which introduced the Political Vigilance Organisa-
tion. After saying there were too many old men in
jobs and too many young men without jobs (“no
party or Parliament has yet faced up to the problem
of youth unemployment”), he was asked whether he
believed in State Parliaments. He answered very
decidedly in the negative: “I am in ' favor of the
abolition of State Parliaments ; and if everyone is
not sick of them by now I am greatly surprised.”
Not everyone is sick of them, for there are 498
State politicians, of whom 59 are members of Gov-
ernments, and unnumbered thousands of Government
employees who get their living by ministering to them
in unnumbered ways ; but a great many people are.
Particularly in the State to which Mr. Spender belongs.
No N.S.W. taxpayer who is not part of the system can
contemplate the financial plight to which the State
has been reduced in spite of swingeing taxation, or
consider the serious increase in the number of unem-
ployed in spite of magnificent industrial developments,
or read the speeches of Mr. Stevens, Mr. Spooner,
Mr. Mair and Mr. Lang on the calamitous Budget, and
on the political “crisis” it brought about, without a
feeling of nausea.
Mr. Spooner told Mr. Robson that the Budget
was faked, though Mr. Spooner can’t remember hav-
ing used the word. Mr. Stevens denies that it was
faked. Mr. Lang repeats and amplifies the charge.
In a sense all State Budgets are faked. No State
Budget ever gives the people a true picture of the
public accounts, such as would enable them to judge
whether ordinary expenditure for which taxes are
levied has or has not been defrayed out of loans.
Faked or not, the N.S.W. Budget, presented at the
end of September, promised the country a surplus of
£7785, with reduction of railway charges. By the
beginning of March, railway charges had been dras-
tically increased with the admitted object of bringing in
10 p.c. more railway revenue, and in four months they
had brought in another £300,000. About the same
time the Loan Council was asked for £1,700,000 to
finance a corresponding deficit; then for another
£1,100,000.
When the financial year closed., Mr. Mair said
the deficit amounted to £2,804,400. Mr. Stevens has
since reduced this to £2,750,000 ; Mr. Spooner has in-
creased it to £3,750,000, £1,000,000 voted by Parlia-
ment for unemployed-relief having, he says, been
“replaced” by £1,000,000 borrowed from the Super-
annuation Board ; Mr. Lang’s version is that “the true
deficit was £4,350,000.” The Auditor-General has yet
to be heard from. He may make it £5,000,000 or
more. If he follows the American practice of calling
loan expenditure deficit, he may make it £10,000,000
to £12,000,000.
There are 90 members of the N.S.W. Assembly.
Shortly after the Budget was presented, and even
before it was debated, they voted themselves another
£205 a year, making their salaries £875 p.a., and dated
the increases back to July 1. Ministers and officers
of both Houses shared in the good things provided,
Mr. Stevens explaining that the back-pay provision
was “in accordance with a promise I personally
made to my colleagues,” Mr. Spooner among them.
Though dozens of members have spoken with
acrimony on the Budget collapse, which has landed
the State in so serious a position, not one voice has
been heard offering to return to the Treasury, as ill-
gotten gains, these thumping increases, which were
voted without popular sanction or forewarning, and
in a hurry so indecent that the measure was whisked
through second-reading and committee stages in 16
minutes. Neither has any member suggested that re-
duction of the vast deficit anticipated for 1939-40
should begin with reversion to 1937-38 salaries. Just
as there was perfect agreement on the salary grab,
there is perfect agreement on the point that there wiil
have to be huge additional taxation.
Already, because of the seven Parliaments and the
seven Governments and the seven Government Houses
and the multitude of departments and boards and
commissions, taxation is higher than it is in any other
Dominion. From £lOOO of income from property the
taxgatherers took last year as much as £142 Is. 6d. in
N.S.W., £144 17s. 9d. in Tasmania, £l4B 12s. Id. in
Westralia, £153 Os. sd. in Victoria, £173 Os. sd. in
South Australia and £204 3s. 9d. in Queensland. Taxes
on higher incomes approach 50 p.c., and in one case
exceed that figure—in Queensland, a person with a
nominal £5OOO of property income has to yield up
£2594 ss. lOd.
As it happens, though not because high taxation
makes for prosperity—in Queensland it has stifled the
growth of manufacturing industries —Queensland is
the one State without a 1938-39 deficit, and it may
have the one Government which will not make new
demands on the taxpayer. The Commonwealth Gov-
ernment will certainly do so, to pay for part of its
defence programme, and when some of the other
Governments get to work many taxpayers will wish
themselves in Jersey, or in some country where, if a
man draws a moderate income from, say, six provinces,
it is not necessary, as it is in Australia, to make out
seven separate returns of income and wait to be stung
by seven sets of taxgatherers.
A country which has seen commodity prices go
to pot can no longer afford to sacrifice so large a part
of the national income to maintain 13 Houses of
Parliament and the grandiose establishments that
surround them ; but there are other evil results of the
system. It assists provincialism and Big-City centrali-
sation, instead of promoting nationalism. It breeds
sloth and irresponsibleness. When things need to be
done in the national interest, and are not done,
Commonwealth Governments protest that it is because
they have to consult State Governments or because
action would be unconstitutional. When State Gov-
ernments shirk a necessary job, they plead that “it is a
Federal matter.”
Unemployment should have been a national re-
sponsibility from the first; and it was so accepted in
the U.S.A. Our Federal Governments have contented
themselves with finding loans and grants for State
Governments to squander on provincial works, such as
Mr. Spooner’s swimming pools and scenic roads, which
have added nothing to the wealth of the nation. On
the contrary, such temporary relief work as the unem-
ployed have had has been bought at the price of
increased rates and taxes. Farm-relief, rightly taken,
is another national responsibility. In Australia we have
tardy half-measures, the latest being a stillborn Can-
berra proposal that wheat-farmers should be guaran-
teed 3s. 4d. a bushel at ports, Canberra to find half and
Sydney, Melbourne (hostile), Adelaide, Perth, Bris-
bane (indifferent) and Hobart (unfriendly from the be-
ginning) to share the other half out of their loan funds.
In quarters favorable to the seven Parliaments
and the seven Governments and the seven Government
Houses and the multitude of departments and boards
and commissions, it is complained that there is a
“defence-works lag.” Nothing of the kind has been
reported from Britain, where there is one Parliament
to pass the necessary votes and one Government to
see that they are expended as swiftly and efficiently
as the case requires or take the consequences, or in
South Africa. In that country, which has a popula-
tion, European and non-European, nearly three mil-
lions greater than that of Australia, local self-govern-
ment is attended to mainly by four provincial coun-
cils and four Administrators —two at £2500 p.a. and
two at £2OOO p.a. There is one Parliament, and in the
one Government there are 13 Ministers, one of whom
has no portfolio.
And if there is any sign of a “defence-works
lag” in Germany, the army of correspondents hasn’t
discovered it. A hostile world allows that the new
Germany has become menacingly strong, and is in
no mood for tracing the sources from which this
strength is derived ; but unification is clearly one.
The Weimar Republic, a German Minister (Dr.
Frick) has written, fell because it tried to stagger along
with “seventeen Parliamentary bodies, each of which
nullified the will of the German people by creating
artificial antagonisms and fomenting party dissension.”
In the result “it was found quite impossible to form
a Government really capable of governing the country.”
The rallying of the nation behind Hitler dates from a
Reichstag law passed on January 31, 1934, beginning
with the words “The Parliaments of the individual
States are abolished ; the sovereign rights of the States
are transferred to the Reich.”
It is not in the nature of Australians to be Nazis
or to copy dictatorial measures, but it has become
necessary for them to strive for national union under
one supreme and unchallengeable Parliament by the
methods prescribed in the Commonwealth Constitu-
tion. Powers can be surrendered by the States ; the
Constitution can be amended by way of the
referendum.
Tried by the supreme test of war, the Australians
became one people. The slogan that thrilled their
fathers should be altered to “One Flag, One
Parliament, One Destiny.”
Boomerang Abuse.
lN his ch before the Re i ch stag last January Herr
Hitler gave out what amounted to a direction to the
p ress an( j public speakers of Germany. Complaining
tbe na jj ons G f England, America and France were
« continually being st i r red up to hatred of Germany
and the German people,” he added:
should the warmongers achieve what they are
aiming at, our own people would be landed in a
situation for which they would be psychologically quite
unprepared and which they would l °
ouf pubhcftyTnTour presTshould always make a point
D f answering these attacks, and, above all, bring them to
the notice of the German people,
Six months later, Mr. Chamberlain had every
cause to complain about the very thing that had peeved
Herr Hitler:
The future of Europe is being poisoned to-day by
the propagation of false and unfounded suspicions,
He mentioned the German people specifically as being
“drenched day and night” with that brand of poison.
Judged by the samples of the poison copiously ex-
hibited in the British press, it is a heady sort of brew
with a violent kick in a sniff of it. But it has the
disadvantage of having a lively effect on British people
also —that is, on the potential, or envisaged, enemy.
As when a London paper serves up this dosage
administered by Dr. Ley, the leader of the Nazi
Labor Front, in Dr. Goebbels’s publication “Angriff’ :
England buys Poland as cannon-fodder and wants to
buy Soviet Russia, too. England will fight for herself
only if she does not find soldiers to fight for her. Eng-
land wishes to use her moneybags and her superior
economic position to wear you down, to let you
to force you to your knees, to violate your honor. We
know these sadistic methods. We know with what
ruthlessness the English.—those pious people ranging
from the Archbishop of Canterbury to the most godless
Communist —carried out the blockade during the war.
Or take Dr. Goebbels himself, in what is served
up for British consumption as “his weekly diatribe
against Britain”:
We know for sure that the English, if they could,
would march into Germany, hurl us to the ground and
then, perhaps, ask us to pray with them and praise
the Lord who so wisely ordained all things on earth.
We would consider it more honorable if London
admitted quite openly: “We hate you Germans; you
started being a nuisance to us. Now we wish to encircle
you to destroy you.” For that is what the British are
doing. Why, then, do they want to talk of peace?
Why do they want to appear before us in piousness and
prayer? We have had about a stomachful of all that.
The same propagandist’s comment on Munich,
as served up for British consumption in the “Times,
labelled “Dr. Goebbels’s Sneer”:
There are people who say “What would you have
done if there had been war in September, if Chamber-
lain had not come to Munich?” I can only reply, “But
he did come. He did not come for amusement, but
because he knew no other way out. We had him so
cornered that he was checkmated.”
Another fair sample from the official German
News Agency, labelled “England the Slave-driver of
Europe. England the Financier of Death.”
The absolute shamelessness of the financially, capital-
istically run democracies is expressed in the measure
planned by England for the cold-blooded purchase of _
European cannon-fodder for England’s injustice and
perfidy.
Nothing but the morality of a shopkeeper charac-
terises the British action. Nobody can doubt that the
British believe they can hire others to bleed and die
for them should the British war propaganda finally
achieve the catastrophe for which it is working.
In other samples served up daily in English
newspapers the British are taunted with “losing theii
nerve” ; “every symptom of galloping con-
sumption is now manifest in Britain.” “To-day,” runs
another dose, “Britain has so little respect left that
she cannot lose much more.”
Similarly hot and heady brew is being dished out
daily in British newspapers from the factories owned
by the other partner to the Axis. The “Times”
describes Italian feeling towards Britain, as expressed
by the Italian press —an important qualification—as
“characterised by daily repetitions of abuse, vilification,
sneers and insults,” which “could hardly be more
hostile.” The samples given are generally much more
colorful than the German brew, but have nothing like
the sting. The effect of the whole boiling, however,
could not but be the very opposite from anything the
brew’s manufacturers could possibly desire. It gives
the British everywhere something to feel fighting mad
about.
The same, of course, applies to the poison brewed
in England, and duly brought, by Flerr Hitler’s per-
sonal direction, to the notice of the German people.
A typical example brewed by J. B. Priestley, the
fiction writer, in the “News-Chronicle”:
These men, and their Axis allies, are engaged in a
gigantic campaign of filibustering. It is useless to ask
them to settle down and become nice peaceful neighbors.
They couldn’t do it even if they wanted to. You might
as well have asked A 1 Capone to have settled down as
the proprietor of a soda-fountain.
In hundreds of references “gangsters” is the
accepted term for Hitler and Mussolini; Hitler is fre-
quently “a certifiable lunatic,” “a megalomaniac” and
other terms denoting degrees of madness.
Low has a cartoon showing a clenched fist
labelled “We Shall Fight” knocking over Hitler and
troupe. Another English cartoonist has a Crucifixion
scene, with the shadow of the swastika fallen over
the nailed figure and the caption, referring to a German
art-show: “Would Hitler exhibit this?” (The answer
to that one might, perhaps, be: “Rejected on historical
grounds.”) But of all the brew of this sort concocted
in England, the output with the most potent boomerang
kick in it was “Labor Peace Appeal to the German
People.” This was not left for German propagandists
to import for their own purposes ; it was exported in
large quantity to Germany, and London’s Labor daily
was proud to report the assistance given to its British
Labor sponsors by refugees in Paris, who helped in
spilling it over the border.
This ingenuous document, after expressing suit-
able pious sentiments under the sensible heading.
“Why kill each other?” went on to persuade thf
German people in these terms:
Both Herr Hitler and Signor Mussolini and their
leading associates have repeatedly made warlike and
threatening speeches which were bound to cause appre-
hension in other nations, and were indeed largely made
for that purpose in the hope that they would frighten
other peoples as well as their own into accepting their
dictation.
This must have made even peace-loving Germans
and Italians see red. The tactful “appeal” proceeded:
War threatens you not from outside but from inside
your own country, and the responsibility for that threat
belongs to Herr Hitler and his Government.
The “Peace” appealers added a threat on their
own account:
What we cannot submit to is that we should be
blackmailed and threatened by egotistic dictators.
The effect of this, like the German and Italian
press strafing of England, is naturally the opposite to
that desired. It provokes and enrages. And it unites.
War, according to the scribes, is as good as certain
this year. If the conflagration does break out, the
concocters of the potent Boomerang brand propa-
ganda poison will have good reason to be proud of
their brew.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Another Week Without War.
Temporarily eclipsed by Hitler, Mussolini stormed
into the news again last week. He had a heart attack ;
he had no heart attack ; he appeared in public to
show there was nothing wrong with him, and he gave
marching orders to the correspondent responsible for
the report —an American.
The German and Italian Foreign Ministers met at
Salzburg, and went on to see Hitler at Berchtes-
gaden. Among them they arranged to give Poland,
Hungary, Rumania and Yugoslavia beans and also
to “offer the democracies a compromise” and Poland
a renewal of the anti-aggression pact —the authority
in the latter case is Madame Two-Blues!
While all this was going on, British newsagents
refused to sell an issue of the American newspaper
“Time” containing a vile attack, presumably written
by another American reporter, on Mussolini’s daugh-
ter, who is married to the Italian Foreign Minister
and has children. Other American reporters on
“Time” “saw” the King and Queen drive through
Quebec in a bullet-proof car. Much of the foreign
“news” which comes to Australia in one way and
another is served up by American reporters. Some of
them are the biggest liars unhung and Left Wing Jews
are the worst.
In Eastern Europe the war of words continued. At
Danzig Foerster, the Nazi leader, made a much-
heralded speech in which he said “Danzigers are abso-
lutely clear and firm in the conviction that their libera-
tion is at hand and that Danzig will again return to
the Reich.” He quoted a Churchill speech, delivered in
1932, in which revision of the Corridor and Danzig
arrangements was demanded; but then Churchill
speeches could be quoted in support of almost any
programme or belief, except that the moon is made
of green cheese.
“A sudden and concerted press campaign against
Poland, growing more bitter every hour,” was
“featured” in British newspapers. Polish newspapers
were not behindhand; “the combined Polish press
launched the wildest attacks on Germany,” one organ
remarking that “Carthage must be destroyed.” This
outbreak startled even Roberts, the Pooh-Bah pro-
fessor, who took Poland under his wing when Czecho-
slovakia made nonsense of his assertion that it was
“enormously wealthy and strong” and could, if
attacked by Hitler, “hold the ridges from Eger to the
Oder.” The Pooh-Bah professor has been driven to
admit that “unfortunately sections of the Polish press,
presumably in an effort to keep up the people’s
morale, gave way to peculiar exuberance.” This
“exuberance” has been characteristic of the Poles all
through their stormy history, and it is a very poor
foundation for the British guarantee which gives them
the right to invoke British aid if, in their “exuber-
ance,” they consider their independence in danger.
In the Far East, British seamen from a destroyer
fell on a cheeky Chinese mob at Swatow and dis-
tributed some hearty British punches. The Japanese
Consul demanded an apology, and the British Consul
and the commander of the destroyer “expressed regret
at the fact that the incident arose from the presence
of British sailors.”
Resumption of the Tokio talks was expected,
especially as the British Government had given orders
that the Chinese suspects, held by police in the con-
cession at Tientsin after the murder of the Chinese
Superintendent of Customs, should be handed over to
the Japanese. The evidence against them was, it seems,
submitted to “high British legal authorities,” who ad-
vised that a prima-facie case had been made out. If
this course had been taken in the first place British
justice, which the whole world respects, might have
become a moderating factor months ago.
The Franco-British military mission arrived at
Leningrad in the wake of an “official denial,” issued
at Warsaw, that “Poland would participate in the dis-
cussions” —this, it was explained, would “close the
door to negotiations with Germany”! If the discus-
sions lead to an alliance, Japan, it is fairly clear, will
ally itself with the Axis. The mercantile classes are
still friendly to Britain, and the Navy evidently wants
to continue the old harmonious relations, but a British
alliance with the U.S.S.R. might make it impossible
for them to stand up to the pro-Axis party.
Curtailing the Flying Services.
Imperial Airways announced on August 8 that,
largely because of shortage of aircraft, it had decided
to reduce substantially the accommodation on its
22,000 miles of Empire air routes.
Part of the trouble is due to*a “singularly unfor-
tunate” series of flying-boat losses. No blame can
attach to the Australian end of the organisation.
Only two flying-boats under the aegis of Qantas have
met with mishaps. Despite the disabilities under
which pilots labor, at this end of the run the fleet is
at normal strength.
Mr. Fairbairn, the Minister for Civil Aviation, was
“staggered” at the news from England. Well he
might be. Not the slightest hint of such a prospect
had been given. In May, the British Overseas Trade
Department Bulletin reported that Short Brothers were
hard at work on ships of the 32-ton Golden Hind
class to succeed the Canopus type—six were “in active
construction.”
And on June 12 came a bill designed to enable
a Government corporation to take over Imperial Air-
ways and British Airways and—with a Treasury
guarantee of £10,000,000 and a subsidy of £4,000,000
p.a. till 1953 —to arrange rapid expansion of services
and resources.
Australia will have to consider its position care-
fully. Presumably, under the new scheme the British
Government corporation will take over interests inter-
locking between Imperial Airways and Qantas imperial
Airways, and Australian interests will need to be
guarded.
British Civil Aviation construction needs fresh
blood and fresh ideas. Australia could provide them.
If the Dominions had been included in the building
programmes three years ago, when flying-boat con-
struction began, there would be no shortage. Also,
we should not be in the position of having to go to
U.S.A. to machine our inter-capital routes.
At present a Q.E.A. machine which leaves Sydney
at 7 a.m. on Tuesday gets its passengers out of Singa-
pore at 3 p.m. on the following Friday. A Dutch
machine leaves Sydney at 5.30 a.m. on Sunday and
leaves Singapore at 3 p.m. on Tuesday. Distances
are 4676 miles by Qantas and 4496 miles by Inter-
continental.
The first reaction of K.L.M. to the Imperial Air-
ways curtailment was to call a directors’ meeting at
The Hague to consider whether the situation could not
be capitalised by increasing the Amsterdam-Australia
service.
The C.P. and Military Training.
At its conference held last week, the N.S.W. Country
Party adopted a resolution of which this was part:
That a plank of the policy of the United Country
party be the introduction of some system of universal
training for home defence.
It should encourage the Government to take a
logical step which would be supported in Australia
as the corresponding step has been supported in
Britain. There, the opposition that looked so formid-
able disappeared in a few weeks.
In the Parliamentary Manner.
“Nakhoda”: As The Bulletin predicted, now that
the bushfires in Victoria have ceased to be front-page
stuff and have gone, so to speak, into committee, the
old situation remains undisturbed.
In a debate on a U.A.P. no-confidence motion in
the Victorian Assembly Judge Stretton’s report came
under consideration. Paton (U.C.P.) said he could see
no reason for the motion, and Hayes (Lab.) agreed that
it was a lot of hooey. Paton went on to remark that
the U.A.P. had accused everyone of passing the buck
for the bushfires, and now was trying to pass the buck
itself on to the Government. A number of country
reps, then got on their legs and started airing their pet
theories as to how fires could be prevented and on
forest matters generally, and city members stretched
themselves out on the benches and sank into profound
slumber. They were awakened by the voice of Forests
Minister Lind calling Oldham (U.A.P.) a sissy, and in
the subsequent uproar Oldham could be heard saying
“it would take a better man than you to do that” —
what Minister Lind was being challenged to do having
been lost in carefree laughter.
Finally, the Speaker was admonished to put the
motion before someone else got up, the motion was
put and lost, and the weary Titans went home to
breakfast.
In the Great War common or garden majors and
captains did bigger jobs of reorganisation and recon-
struction than are required to put the Victorian forests
in order, but they didn’t have to do it in the Parlia-
mentary manner.
Thirty-two Thousand—For What ?
An excrescence called the Australian National Travel
Association claims to have been the means of bringing
“about £2,000,000” worth of tourist trade to Aus-
tralia last year on an income of £32,000. The income
is real enough, since Canberra’s ear was chewed for
the lot, but the “about £2,000,000” is mere guesswork.
Nevertheless, without subjecting the figures to any
sort of examination —without even questioning the
assertion that “permanent new arrivals last year num-
bered 19,548,” although the Commonwealth Statistician
says exodus exceeded influx in the case of people
of British stock —Sydney “Sun” blithered as follows
in a front-page editorial:
Australia spent £32,000 on tourist publicity last year.
The return was £2,000,000 of tourist money.
An excellent dividend.
The report of the Australian National Travel Associa-
tion is a reminder not only of the excellent work it is
doing....
£2,000,000 for £32,000 !
Returns like this are worth even a good deal of
trouble.
Where does the “Sun” keep its eyes? Within a hun-
dred yards of its office there are four State Govern-
ment tourist offices, all spending public money on
“tourist publicity.” Each of the six State Govern-
ments maintains tourist offices in Australian cities,
and some of them have combined to open another.
The High Commissioner’s office in London has pub-
licity and intelligence branches, and in the latest annual
report from Australia House it is mentioned, among
other things, that “a special exhibit of pictures and
transparencies of Australian scenery, life and industry
was arranged at Charing Cross underground station,”
also that “the number of inquiries received from
persons wishing to invest money in Australia or to
settle in one or another of the States was greater than
in previous years.”
The Commonwealth Government also supports
offices in the U.S.A., Canada, Maoriland and various
other Pacific countries, and the States support six in
London. The occupants are all expected to do some-
thing in the tourist-publicity line ; if they didn’t there
would be danger of caretakers or typists finding some
of the bosses lifeless in their swivel chairs, dead of
inertia and boredom.
Then, of course, passenger shipping and airline
companies run keenly competitive tourist services of
their own, paying for the “publicity” themselves.
“The Australian National Travel Association”
provides cushy jobs and glorious trips for a selected
few, and may be the means of bringing a bit of busi-
ness to this or that fashionable hotel or ragshop. From
the taxpayer’s point of view it is merely another costly
incubus doing “work” for which he is already main-
taining expensive organisations, themselves far too
numerous.
Canberra is cautiously announcing its new taxa-
tion programme, and as usual the first to get it in the
neck will be the worker, who is to be charged more
for his beer (already 9d. a pint in the cities because
excise is Is. 9d. per gallon) and tobacco, which is
at least double the pre-war price. Before another shil-
ling is added to the tax-burden wholly unjustified ex-
penditure on frills should be wiped out, and a start
should be made with the “Australian National Travel
Association.”
A Hidden Enemy.
“Puyyaka”: As a feature of Australian statistical
mortality influenza is a rather insignificant affair. The
highest recorded number of deaths from it in any one
year in the 1932-37 period was 615. Consumption,
various forms of heart disease, pneumonia and kidney
diseases outclassed it completely. But its fre-
quency as an antecedent to pneumonia, particularly
the more virulent and fatal form, is a commonplace
of medical practice. So is its evil effect upon weak-
ened or diseased heart-muscles, on damaged lungs or
kidneys, on chronic antrums or ■ middle ears which
may have remained quiescent for years.
It is not necessary to be a doctor to recall how
So-and-so has never been the same since that dose of
’flu last year. When So-and-so dies suddenly of a
heart attack, or more slowly from the lung which she
thought had been cured years ago, friends and rela-
tives are apt to mention the fact. Statistically he would
be recorded under Other Myocardial Degenerations
(3589 males in 1937), she under Tuberculosis of the
Respiratory System (924 females, 1937). Actually, it
was the old familiar ’flu which lit up the pre-existing
conditions and shortened their lives.
Australia is richly provided with all modern
facilities for the investigation and control of disease.
There is a Commonwealth Serum Laboratory with a
world-wide reputation for research. There are 12
Health Laboratories, ranging from Darwin to Laun-
ceston, a Commonwealth School of Hygiene, six State
bacteriological laboratories and four universities
equipped for medical teaching and research. Also,
such endowed centres as the Hall Institute.
A Commonwealth Health Department and six
State Health Departments are co-ordinated with the
medical profession in general by the National Health
and Medical Research Council. And there are no land
boundaries across which disease may enter insidiously
with unnoticed travellers. Every incomer to Australia
is examined by a well-organised Commonwealth
Quarantine Service. No other country is in such a
strong position with respect to disease-investigation
and disease-control.
Yet, year in, year out, the disease popularly be-
littled under the name of “ ’flu” continues to impose a
toll of disablement, grave after-effects and death upon
Australians of all ages, occupations and localities.
And nothing is done about it. With our wide scientific
resources and a clear field in which to apply them, the
prospects of early and conclusive success are better
than those of any other country.
The job of bringing this hidden enemy into the
light in all its ugliness is a mere matter of planning,
co-ordination and correlation of results which the
National Health Council, with the Commonwealth
Department of Health as executive, is eminently quali-
fied to undertake. Given accurate knowledge of what
it is doing, and how, organised laboratory and clinical
research may be depended on confidently to devise
means of prevention or cure, or both, if possible
within the limits of medical knowledge of to-day. The
cost would be small, the benefits of incalculable
national value.
"Roadside Inquiries."
From “N.S.W. Relief Worker”:
While I was swinging my banjo a man near me was
sacked for not doing enough work. Without a doubt, the
charge was merited —he wouldn’t have lasted half an hour
with a private contractor. However, he was a Red. Half
a dozen of his mates, also Reds, made the usual claim of
victimisation. Next day, bulldozing the other men, they
staged an incipient strike, an outcome of which was the
promise of a “roadside inquiry.”
Some days later the Inquiry arrived in the shape of the
Chief Metropolitan Engineer, his second-in-command and
three other salaried officials from other departments. Taking
over one of the sheds on the job the Inquiry got under way.
Job engineer, riding ganger and witnesses called by the
accused were examined separately, the whole business occupy-
ing the best part of five hours. Eventually a compromise
verdict was reached.
No matter for what reason a man is carpeted, suspended
or sacked, two or three Reds with the gift of the gab get
together, organise a protest meeting, give a garbled version
of the affair to the other men, play upon working-class
sympathies, moan about the starving wife and children, prey
upon the fear of being branded as a “scab,” ’phone the local
member and get in touch with Trades Hall.
I have yet to meet the genuinely willing worker who has
been sacked out of hand. And let me say that the huge
majority of relief workers are genuine: they are unfeignedly
glad to get the work and, making allowances for physical
unfitness of a few, work well under commonsense supervision.
The trouble is that most are not vocal, in the mass they do
not reason logically, and they are far too easily scared by the
ever-present Red cry of “scab.” Those few who make the
most noise are usually the most tired of all —unless, of course,
they happen to be engaged on propaganda work for the party:
their energy then is surprising.
Roadside inquiries are going to be a costly business to the
State. The net result of the one detailed —nothing, except
a little assiduously manufactured ammunition for the Red
element. Then we wonder why State finances are in a parlous
condition.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Colonel Bungstarter”: If anything
had been needed to abolish the last hope
of success for the Brisbane putsch- party
at Parliament House it was the leader's
question to Premier Forgan Smith as to
whether he had ever heard of Culloden
and the leader’s claim to an ancestor who
fought there. The mere mention of Cul-
loden to any Scot is dangerous at any
time, but when it conveys an insinuation
that he’s never even heard of that historic
scrap it drives him to frenzy. Add to it
the base inference that none of his
ancestors swung a dirty claymore in it
and you create a fighting entity compared
with which Viking berserkers, amuck
Malays and Sulu pirates full of arrack
are mere cooing babes in arms. Had not
the Smith kilt been lost in the 1918
cyclone at Mackay, not a putscher would
have survived the insult.
♦ *#.)!
“Qwert Yuiop”: Who says that
courtesy is a thing of the past among
politicians? When those Leaguers for
Social Justice gate-crashed Labor’s pre-
sessional meeting at Queensland’s Parlia-
ment House, one of them dropped his
baton. Attorney-General Mullan picked
it up. Did he dong the intruder with it?
Not a dong. Handing it politely back
to its owner, he remarked with a charm-
ing smile, “You’ll want this, won’t you?”
And the cool old Parliamentary hand is
just on 68.
* '* :jc V:
“Mayo”: The news that trains are now
utilised for opening purloined safes (B.
9/ 8 / ’39) is of particular interest to one
who in a variegated youth found the rail-
way line a great asset in crime. A train
could be relied on to turn two crossed
pins into an excellent imitation of a pair
of scissors, and it would in a trice flatten
a coin to twice its normal size, so that a
sixpence, not too closely scrutinised, be-
came a shilling. They still tell the story in
Christchurch (M.L.) of the kids who placed
a threepenny piece on a rail and awaited
the passing of the next train. Instead of
an enlarged coin there was a blank space.
They had overlooked the fact that that
southern-bound train came from Dun-
edin. It stuck to thruppences.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Australian epitaphs? Here is
a nomination:
Never trust, and hold your own.
Then no one can break up your home.
It is an old-timer in West-terrace ceme-
tery, Adelaide. One would suppose at
first sight that it was the widow getting
back at some other woman who had done
the home-breaking. But inquiry shows
that it was less romantic than this. De-
ceased was a suburban hotelkeeper who
had given too much credit and so got into
financial trouble, which his wife thought
had hastened his end. Also, there is a
very old and small stone at Brighton
(S.A.) inscribed just “Little Mary.”
Simple and pathetic—and how could the
bereaved parents guess that, years later,
J. M. Barrie would come along to make
the term for ever comic?
* * * *
“Straight”: Bill was a good salesman,
and knew it, and wouldn’t take slack
from anyone. So when Bertie Depoo
said “Ai don’t like your manner, my
man; Ai think Ai will go elsewhere,”
Bill replied blandly, “As far as I’m con-
cerned, you can go to blazes.” Three
minutes later he answered a summons
to the manager’s office and found Bertie
there. “Jones,” the manager barked,
“I’ve already had occasion to speak to
you about showing courtesy to our
clients. Did you tell this gentleman to —
er—to—er” “Yes,” Bill snapped, “I
did. And if you don’t like it you can
go to blazes, too.” The managing-
director, walking in at that moment,
overheard Bill’s remark, and thought
that the situation demanded the exercise
of a little authority. But Bill wasn’t in
the mood for it. “Aw, you go and have
a bath,” he snapped, and slammed the
door. A horrified trio stood aghast for
a moment, and when B. Depoo, Esq., left
he had received a promise that Bill
should be dismissed. The m.d., however,
was a cautious man, and summoned a
clerk. “What’s Jones’s record of sales?”
he asked. “How many cars did he sell
last week?” “Twenty, sir.” “Good
heavens! And the week before?”
“Thirty, sir.” The m.d. thought the
matter over carefully, and then silently
walked to the door. “Well,” asked the
manager, “what are we going to do
about Jones?” “For my part,” replied
the m.d. softly, “I’m going to have a
bath. You can make your own arrange-
ments.”
* 3 *
“A.R.”: “Bohemian” (B. 2/8/’39) is
wrong in attributing “But such a tide as
snoring seems asleep” to a Melbourne
paper. Reference to the “Society” page
(B. 15/10/’92) shows that the howler was
perpetrated by the Sydney “Morning
Herald.”
* * O :>
“R.R.”: In the deportation proceed-
ings against Australian Labor-leader
“Harry” Bridges in the U.S.A., the prose-
cution, outlining his Australian history,
said he sold ribbon in a departmental
store. That isn’t correct. Bridges, whose
given names are Alfred Renton Brian,
got his first job with Sands and Mc-
Dougall, Melbourne. After some years
of clerking there (he left with an excel-
lent reference) he went to sea, became an
A. 8., and remained one for some time,
experiencing at least two wrecks. In
1920, at 19, he went to the U.S.A. as a
seaman on the Ysabel, subsequently estab-
tablishing himself in ’Frisco, where he
joined the longshoremen; and then set
himself to improve conditions among his
wharfies. “Harry” is a nickname be-
stowed on the much-discussed Australian
by former workmates. He himself pre-
fers his second Christian name, Renton,
which was the name of his uncle, a Labor
stalwart who was killed in the Great War.
Naturalisation has been denied Bridges,
so he remains an Australian. His daugh-
ter Bessie, now about 14, would like to
see her grandparents. Whether she will
or not is a moot point.
“S.”: There have been dark goings-on
in the bush at Narrabeen, near Sydney,
where German sailors are taken for
picnics by their Sydney compatriots.
Near the rock-carving of the swastika
that so infuriated a Sydney paper a while
ago, some gallant Comrade has cut the
hammer-and-sickle. Thinking of those
two stony symbols, glaring at each other
in helpless animosity, I’m tempted to
send my nephew, also a slogan-writer, to
mediate in his usual terse style with
“Adolf XXX Joe.”
*
“El Verdugo”: Notice that General
Franco has reintroduced the garrotte as
a machine for transferring ladies and
gentlemen to another sphere. It should
cause a disinclination in a lot of faint-
hearted people to come within the
clutches of the Spanish law. The execu-
tioner, with most of the crude engines
used for destroying life, has no control
over his weapon when it is in action.
The most a headsman could do was to
resort to the practice of the gent, in the
Bab Ballads:
He chipped it with a hammer and he
chopped it with a bill,
He poured sulphuric acid on the edge of it
until
The terrible avenger of the majesty of law
Was far less like a hatchet than a dissipated
saw.
But a garrotte is a cat of another color.
It consists of an iron hoop to go round
the front of its victim’s neck, a board
to go across the back with a spike in the
middle to penetrate the spine—it looks
like the tack that cartoonists draw for
politicians to sit on. Compression is
applied by a screw. The pace of the
execution depends on the rate at which
the operator turns the screw. It was wise
to have a spare quid on you to slip
Nosey Bob before the doings, when you
went to be bumped off in Alfonso’s
time. Otherwise, departure was apt to be
slow and painful.
* •* * -f
“Oxmead”: The claim that The Bul-
letin coined the word “Westralia” (B.
2/ 8 / ’39) may be queried. No doubt it
was the first newspaper to employ the
abbreviation and put it into general cir-
culation, but the actual “coining” was
done in the Telegraph Department of the
“colony” (as it then was) concerned. I
had this over 40 years ago from a man
who was in that department in the middle
’eighties. Officialdom, it seems, frowned
a little on the innovation at first, but its
utility was soon recognised.
* * * *
“C.R.”: The biggest model town ever
projected in Victoria will soon be under
construction at Beaumaris, the seaside
resort about 20 miles along the coast of
Port Phillip bay. Creators will be the
Dunlop Perdriau people, who have been
faced with the problem of rebuilding
their rubber factory at Montague or
making a fresh start. Town is to ac-
commodate 10,000 employees, their wives
and families; there will be shopping
centres, theatre, libran', sports ground
and perhaps a hospital. Community
services will be on an ambitious scale,
and will include creches, laundries,
health centres and kindergartens. The
cost will be over a million pounds, and
the only obstacle is the reluctance of a
few owners to sell their blocks. Site is
at present a tea-tree-covered wilderness.
It was in this vicinity, by the way, that
that remarkable artist Clarice Beckett
painted for close on 30 years, never
stirring more than a mile from her front
gate in search of subject matter, up to
her death a few years ago.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: London “Punch” tells of a
modern woman complaining of a first-
aid examination being put off till next
afternoon, because “Now we shall have
to remember it all for another day.” This
seems a bit far-fetched, but it doesn’t
come up to what I am assured is a
genuine recent incident —an Australian
girl’s reply in an examination for the
Red Cross. Question: What would you
do if you found a man with his head cut
off? Answer: I should try artificial
respiration.
* * $ *
“S.V.”: Nothing used to anger Melba
more, after she got her dameship, than
to be called by her title. She became
reconciled to it later, but when the order
first came into existence it had an incon-
gruous sound, owing to the fact that it
had no distinguished associations and its
American associations, familiar to Aus-
tralia, were vulgar rather than elegant.
But the recipients of the title were not
in as awkward a predicament as the wife
of a former British Ambassador in
Turkey was put into by the late Sultan.
The successful completion of a loan had
predisposed the Sultan in the diplomat’s
favor, and he wanted to pay him a compli-
ment without drawing too much attention
to the financial reason for it, which was
unpopular among the masses. The
Ambassador was unofficially informed
that his wife was to be given a most
coveted distinction. The Ambassador’s
lady was delighted beyond measure, till
she read the gazette announcing that the
Sultan had been pleased to grant her
the Order of Chastity, Second Class!
% * * «
“Pawang”: A Melbourne suburbanite,
hurrying to the tram to go to the evening
session of the pictures, overtook a young
man, a neighbor, who was carrying under
his arm a large object wrapped up
in newspaper. “What have you got in
the bundle?” asked the citizen. “Half
the body of a man,” casually remarked
his cbmpanion. The citizen felt a tighten-
ing of his heart strings. “What in the
world are you doing with half a human
body?” “Well, you see,” said the young
man, “I have to sit for my finals to-
morrow, and after attending a dissection
at the medical school the other day I felt
I was a bit behind, so I borrowed half the
professor’s subject matter.” “But isn’t
that against the regulations?” “Too right
it is!” said the student, lowering one of
his eyelids. A few days later they met
again. “How did you get on in the
exam.?” asked the citizen. “Home and
dry on my homework,” grinned the
medical student.
“This is the one we've got to git the impression of, Spike!"
ALL GONE.
Where are the hansom cabs that rolled
Hither and yon in the long ago?
Where are the tokens of minted gold
That in our kicks we were wont to stow
Before the bundles of paper dough
Became the stock of the bank cashier?
Where is the waxed mustachio
And where is the ziff of yesteryear?
Where are the taverns we sought of old,
The joints where all was glitter and glow
And potent liquors were bought and sold
Till close on the midnight hour or so
Without impairing Bung’s status quo
Or causing a cop to interfere?
Where is the ziff men used to grow
And where the whiskers of yesteryear?
Where are the poet souls who trolled
Staves with a swing and a rhythmic flow? •
Where are the painters whose pictures told
All there was need thereon to know?
Where are the coaches of Cobb and Co.
And the clipper ships with their straining
gear
Set for the fiercest winds that blow?
And where are the ziffs of yesteryear?
Where are the drinks we used to know,
The o.p. rum and the pre-war beer?
And, though one should search for them
high and low,
Where are the ziffs of yesteryear?
N.S.W.
T. THE R


“Key”: A thief of the no-respecter
variety turned up at Wellington (M.L.)
while the Diocesan Synod was in session.
He went into the lobby in which the
clergy had parked their hats and coats
and made a clean sweep ; apparently he
then returned to see if he had missed
anything, and was caught by a parson.
His tale was a good one, and he was
allowed to go on a promise to return
the goods. The police brought them
back later. The explanation of the
leniency of the Synod was that it had
been engaged in watching a film that
showed the reformation of two hardened
burglars by a clergyman.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: The customary run
of agony-ad. items was refreshingly
varied in a recent Brisbane daily by:
Donald Duck. All not forgiven, don’t
come home, all in good health. Watson.
The suggestion of Sherlock Holmes con-
veyed by the sender’s moniker gives it
a pleasant added flavor of mystery.
* * * *
“Nakh”: A monumental mason met
a friend in a bar in Melbourne and was
shocked to be told that his friend’s
father was dying. They commiserated
over a couple of beers until the subject
was exhausted and they began to talk
of other matters. It turned out that the
mason could put his friend in the way of
a big deal in the carrying business. Then
he remembered that his friend’s father
was extremely wealthy, and his profes-
sional instincts triumphed over his
humanity. “Don’t think I want a quid
pro quo” he remarked, “but your old
man’s memory ought
to be fittingly com-
memorated. What
about a decent-look-
ing tombstone?” His
friend agreed; and
the upshot was that
the mason booked
an order for a monu-
ment to cost not
more than £l5O. On
the following Satur-
day the monumental
mason read the an-
nouncement of the
old man’s demise in
the “Argus.” He
spent Sunday design-
ing a handsome
memorial and be-
came so fired with
artistic . enthusiasm
that he completely
forgot the financial
aspect of his inspira-
tion. But he remem-
bered it on Monday
when he read in the “Argus” that the
deceased had been cremated.
* * * *
“C. 8.”; Medical death sentences
don’t always have a happy outcome (B.
2/8 /’39). A few years ago a Melbourne
girl was informed by her medical man
that she had not long to live. She had
rich and indulgent parents and she de-
manded that they should give a farewell
party. It was a magnificent affair and
all her friends and relations were invited.
During the banquet she kept lifting her
glass, looking in the direction of one
“ Hey, mate, does this train stop at Wyalkatchem?”
guest or another, and saying: “A short
life and a gay one!” One by one the
guests excused themselves and left, but
she continued to call for the toast until
the last had departed. She didn’t recover.
* * *
“D.A.”: My favorite pastime these cold
mornings in Sydney is spotting refugees.
As soon as I see a magnificent overcoat
of the Raglan type walking down the
street, the skirt finishing closer to the
ankles than the knees, 1 take 40 points.
When I get closer to the overcoat and
study the complexion between it and the
hat I take another 20 points if it is too
sallow, too swarthy or too pink to be
classified as Australian. When the over-
coats are in pairs or multiples, as they
often are, I add another 40 points to my
score if the language being spoken has a
Continental tone about it. I sometimes
think, however, that it would be fairer
scoring if I took 50 or 60 points for
the overcoat test. It’s almost infallible.
* * * *
“K.P.”: The pre-school scheme', de-
signed for bridging the break between
home and first-school child life, has
brought out some quite unanticipated
difficulties for young mothers. One such
of my acquaintance sent her small two
along, and they enjoyed it completely.
So did she, being able to resume the
tennis, golf and bridge which their whole-
time presence had made unjustifiable in
her eyes. Now they are back home.
“They’ll have to educate some of those
old cats in this suburb before nursery
schools can work,” she remarked sav-
agely. “They were putting it all over the
place that I was getting them off to
school all day, so that I could have a
good time with some sheik, and that the
next thing in this family would be a
divorce. Bill’s boss’s blasted old wife
was the worst of the lot, so I had to
chuck it for fear of his job. The poor
little devils of kids are howling still be-
cause I won’t let them go back.”
* * * *
“Craiser”: In a recent discussion in
The Bulletin about the almost Chinese
love of learning displayed by some of
the art students at the Vic. National Gal-
lery, the case was mentioned of a student,
aged 60, who acted as such an inspiration
to his son that the son became a pupil
at the age of 40. At a party in Mel-
bourne similar phenomena at the Univer-
sity were under discussion. The example
was quoted by someone of a girl whose
father wanted her to take up a profes-
sion, and who spent 11 years at the medi-
cal school without getting through her
finals. “That doesn’t equal Skimp’s
record,” said another. “He was there
fifteen years.” “Ah, but he was running
an s.p. business,” remarked a medical
student.
# * * *
“General Prac.”: Epidemics of colds
(or ’flu) like that which recently plagued
Sydney seem to have met their master in
the new drugs of the sulphanilamide
group. The dyestuffs are lethal to various
streptococci and to the causal germs of
“ That's the one, sir; it whistles me every time I pass."
pneumonia, and during the last four years
have brought about dramatic recoveries
in cases of meningitis, blood-poisoning,
smallpox, erysipelas, gonorrhoea and
child-bed fever, amongst other dangerous
ailments. I know of a medico who can
abort a cold inside two days by swal-
lowing eight sulphanilamide
tablets, taken two at a time at four-hour
intervals. There are many good reasons
for hailing these agents as the biggest
advance made in treatment since Ehrlich
invented his “606.” But, as always,
there’s a catch in it —some people are
susceptible to the toxic effects of the
drug ; in such unfortunates, nausea and
dizziness may be very severe, and danger-
ous forms of ansmia not unknown. Yet
the drug may be bought by all and sun-
dry over any chemist's counter. When
somebody dies of an overdose we’ll prob-
ably decide to make the sulphanilamides
obtainable only when prescribed by a
medical man.
* * * *
“S.V.”: The sacredness of wills is
likely to be challenged if a bill now
before Vic. Leg. Ass. becomes law.
One of its provisions will give power
to the Public Trustee to open the wills
of mentally and (in some cases) physi-
cally infirm persons during their life-
time. Chief Sec. Bailey explained that
the Master in Equity had complained of
difficulties that arose in administering
the estate of a mentally infirm person.
The lawyers in the Assembly were
startled out of their soulcases and de-
manded a postponement of the clause
on the ground that the terms of a
person’s will might become public
during his lifetime, though it isn’t quite
clear why this should be considered so
terrible. Anyway, about the most pro-
lific sources of litigation in Victoria are
disputed wills, and most of them were
made by individuals who by no stretch
of the imagination could be said to have
been mentally infirm.
# -X Jj» Ot
“Pons”: From the balcony of my Syd-
ney harborside home I look down upon
those trim, grey sister cruisers Sydney
and Hobart, soon to become triplets. No
need here to wind my clocks, for from
dawn till late at night the ships’ bells give
me the time. The flag is hoisted at 8 a.m.,
and then the beat of drums and the music
of bands float over the grey water.
Through the day, silver bugles and the
shrill pipes of the boatswains send the
men at the double along the decks.
Huge voices, using loudspeakers, say
“Awa-a-a-ay, jollyboat!” or summon
the mariners to prayer. A royal birth-
day comes along, bunting whirls to the
mastheads, and many culverins and bow-
chasers are loosed off. On any fine
morning, the cruisers’ seaplanes, clack-
ing like a million Venetian blinds, soar
and dip above my head. “You can’t
beat those ships,” I to the man next
door. “What discipline! How effi-
ciently those men do their jobs!” The
man next door comes from Chicago.
“Say,” he inquired, “I wonder what was
the matter with that guy who christened
your navy the Silent Service?”
HONI SOIT.
“The disclosure that, only 34 of 49 Labor voters
supported the Labor nominee in the election to tiil a
vacancy in the N.S.W. Leg. Council led to ‘allega-
tions.’ ”
’Tis a mad world, my masters —that’s notori-
ous—
Wherein wc heirs of all the ages dwell,
And one that's overapt to be censorious,
Where politicians are concerned, as well.
You'll never dodge, whate’er your reputation,
Though chaste as ice and pure as snow you
be,
The shafts of slanderous insinuation,
The slings of calumny.
They may have been impartially unable
To feel convinced, and by their votes attest
The view, that he who bore the Labor label
Was really the fittest and the best.
Belike ’twas sturdy patriotism made them
For once impervious to faction’s call.
In short, they picked their choice as conscience
bade them—
And nothing else at all.
Tis sad that men should place such harsh con-
structions
On little things like these as is their wont,
And seek to draw such damaging deductions
From all our politicians do —or don’t.
Why should wild tongues be loosed when any
section,
Deferring to a sense of duty strong,
Dares to ignore that positive direction:
“My party—right or wrong!”
Take heart, you honest souls maligned and
slandered,
Reflect that when such bitterness is shown
Your sour detractors judge you by the standard
lhat would in like conditions be their own.
Malicious rumor, as in times primeval,
Still worthy acts with basest motives links.
Come, comrades, let us drink together—“ Evil
To him that evil thinks!”
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


■%>
m
ov*
a
10 for
20 for 1/0
■ V
GRAVE **j^
arc so much smoother
Nl
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE T HROATS
j
ĵ
POLITICAL POINTS
Page and Menzies were at it again last
week. The doctor characterised the drop-
ping of the standing-army plan as “the
height of folly,” and intimated that his
naval policy was “to buy two American
battleships immediately.” Menzies replied
tartly that if the Americans were willing
to sell one battleship, which he doubted,
it couldn’t be docked before 1943 ; for
the rest, he and his Ministers were not “in
any way obliged to subordinate our own
considered judgment of any problem to
the effervescent enthusiasm of Sir Earle
Page.”
After ail, we are the Government. Per-
haps that is the trouble.
What a nasty P.M. he can be when he
likes!
Several tons of politicians and officials
were in Melbourne last week for another
of those conferences which get nowhere
in particular though they always add to
the outrageous cost of government. The
proposition, advanced by Menzies, was
that the Commonwealth and State Gov-
ernments should guarantee the wheat-
growers 3s. 4d. a bushel at ports on a
fifty-fifty basis, cost being reckoned at
£3,500,000, plus what the flour tax brings
in. Four State Governments were will-
ing, though not enthusiastic, but Dun-
stan (Victoria) stood out, principally on
the ground that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment should bear the whole cost. The
gentlemen are to meet again towards the
end of the month.
“The wheat industry is national in
character, and the responsibility for
assisting it in a time of grave emergency
is one exclusively for the national Gov-
ernment.” —Premier Dunstan. One-Par-
liament men are of the same opinion,
but they marvel at a provincial Premier
resorting to an argument which, carried
to its logical conclusion, disposes of the
case for the preservation of provincial
Premiers.
“T.”: Why don’t Dunstan and the other
superfluities offer to carry all export
wheat to ports for 4d. a bushel? This
will be done anyhow in parts of West-
ralia, and if fourpence were the flat rate
in all wheatgrowing States such opposi-
tion to the Menzies plan as remained
would be nakedly political.
One of the things that the Spooner
revolt against Stevens has left dizzy is
the U.A.P. bob-a-nob pre-selection sys-
tem. Federal Minister Spender has em-
phasised the fact by announcing that he
will ignore it when he goes up for War-
ringah again. His colleague Stewart im-
proved the shining hour by intimating
that he will support Spender in Warrin-
gah against all-comers. This infuri-
ated Archie Parkhill, who has set his
heart on regaining the seat that was his
for 10 years, and the worthy knights spent
the week-end yapping at one another.
They were colleagues for two years.
N.S.W. land men who have been visit-
ing Sydney for annual conferences of
their organisations talked seriously of
starting a Sydney daily of their own.
They are very tired of reading in the
“Telegraph” that the party they support
is “the Standover party,” and in the
“Herald” that this or that country should
be boycotted or blockaded, and that if
they don’t sacrifice their markets to suit
“Herald” politics Granny will disown
them.
A slight departure from customary
procedure was made in Brisbane when
the Premier read the Governor’s speech
in a fine r-rolling Scots burr-r. An acci-
dent with a golf ball had put the vice-
regal larynx temporarily out of action.
Thirteen projected bills were announced,
the variety of subjects covered ranging
from admission of refugee doctors to
practise in hospitals to local self-govern-
ment for Torres Strait islanders. After
some bloodcurdling revelations concern-
ing the attempted depopulation of
Queensland by Nazis who let loose clouds
of influenza germs, proceedings closed
with a 40-minute lecture on Townsville
by its new member.
London “Times” is “certain” that
Stevens “will remain an important poli-
tical figure, because his fight against Mr.
Lang made him a popular hero, even
throughout Australia.” Almost as good
as the Fitzpatrick “travelogue” descrip-
tion of him as “a typical hardworking
Australian.”
Thoroughly approving of Bruxner’s
attitude during the “crisis,” the N.S.W.
“From August 26 Langism will be buried for ever.” —Heffron Labor party’s secretary.
“Better men than you have dug bigger holes than yours and they couldn’t
chuck me in !”
Agrarians at their annual conference
agreed to continue the arrangement by
virtue of which their Parliamentary
parties decide whether they should co-
operate with the U.A.P. or stay out of
U.A.P. Governments. But there is to be
no more selection of candidates by party
leaders or charter of immunity for U.A.P.
country members: “Conference agreed
unanimously that electorate councils
should have the right to run candidates
for any electorate.”
It is an unwritten law in Sydney that
the Premier must be a Sydney man. In
35 years, the tradition has been broken
thrice —by Waddell, Dooley and Mair.
Dooley’s Ministry lasted five months and
three weeks, Waddell’s 10 weeks.
Ominous!
A team of Sydney surfers is back from
Honolulu, and the “Daily Telegraph”
welcomed it home in a rapturous leader,
while protesting that “the Government”
should have borne the whole cost. The
“D.T.” had to share it with “the Austra-
lian National Travel Association,” and
“it cost us £2000.” But if it was partly
a Travel Association stunt, the taxpayers
contributed. The Travel Association got
£32,000 p.a. of easy money from Can-
berra last year.
A member of the surfers’ pilgrimage to
Honolulu, “sponsored by the ‘Daily
Telegraph’ and the National Travel
Association,” had to be left behind to
argue things out with a film actress.
According to his own account, “the boys”
were “playfully tossing a bottle round”
at a mixed lawn party, and the film
actress “joined in the fun.”
Just as I tossed the bottle she turned
and it hit her cheekbone She
attended a party at the Royal Hawaiian
Hotel two nights later and appeared all
right; but she swore a warrant for my
arrest for assault and battery. Later she
filed a suit for $20,000 damages. The
incident was entirely accidental and might
have happened to anyone.
The W.C.T.U. denies that it “might have
happened to anyone,” and insists that the
incident had no parallel in the home life
of Queen Victoria.
“S. M. Herald’s” thoughts now run to
“a long-range blockade of Japan, from
the North American western coast south
and around to Singapore.” This, plus
“the withdrawal of all British shipping
chartered by Japan for her campaign in
China,” would, it seems, be “the logical
and necessary answer to a continuation
or extension of the present Japanese in-
sults and aggression, and Australia should
be prepared willingly to play her part.”
With what weapons? And if the thing
came off this year, what would be the
consequence next year, or five or ten
years hence? Success would be doubt-
ful, and could be gained only at the price
of eternal enmity.
A beautiful example of the Labor
unity spirit was given in Macquarie-
street, Sydney, at the election of a suc-
cessor to the late Hawkins, M.L.C. Lang
Labor nominated Dan Cameron, there
being four other candidates —all, in th®
jargon of both Labor groups, “Tories.
Forty-nine Labor votes were cast, and
Dan got 34. K. G. Brookes, a New-
castle mining man and manufacturer,
was an easy winner.
Rumors such as distinguished the first
election to the “reformed” N.S.W. Leg.
Council were revived after last week’s
affair, it being alleged that some person
unknown went round offering as much
as £25 for votes. A horrified section of the
Sydney press demands that they should
be sifted to the bottom —presumably by
a Judge with a royal commission. If
anyone was really crazy enough to
offer money for a seat in a doomed
House, a commission of lunacy would
be more appropriate.
It happened so recently that an account
of it is preserved in the August edition
of the U.A.P. monthly:
Nearly 500 people met on the show-
boat Kalang on July 4 to do honor to
Mr. Spooner.... At the function Mr.
Spooner received a handsome walnut cock-
tail bar and crystal cocktail set; the pres-
entations were made by the Premier, Mr.
Stevens.... Mr. Spooner said he had found
inspiration in the friendship and co-opera-
tion of all members of the Ministry and
the U.A.P. and Country Parliamentary
parties.
On August 4, perhaps, he paced up to
the walnut cocktail bar and drank con-
fusion to the friends and co-operators,
having the previous day blown up the
Stevens ship and branded the skipper as
a coward.
Canberra has promised to bounty-
feed the construction of small ships, and
a British expert has been touring the
Big Cities looking for sites for a naval
dock capable of accommodating battle-
ships. It is taken for granted in Sydney
that Sydney will get the battleship dock
and build the ships. In the larger in-
terests of Australia it would be better
to have them built in a place like
Bowen (Q.) or Port Lincoln (S.A.) and
give the battleship dock to Albany
(W.A.); but those ports have no “pull."
Congress completed a very bad
session for the President by dishing his
latest lending-and-spending programme,
which was “to ease the country over the
economic slump” he expects. Roosevelt
has been allowed to do in a colossal way
what Stevens —fortunately with restricted
opportunities—tried to do in N.S.W.,
and the results have thoroughly alarmed
the Americans. He has, moreover, been
bitterly attacked for surrounding himself
with Jewish advisers: Morgen than,
Baruch, Frankfurter, Cohen and Lehman.
Deplorable as it is, this outbreak of anti-
Semitism has contributed to the Startling
slump in his stocks.
The N.S.W. C.P. conference asked the
Sydney Government to do something for
the very sick N.S.W. wine industry—
permit light wines to be served in “ap-
proved restaurants” up to 8 p.m. If
something of the sort isn’t done, a lot
of returned soldiers who were repatriated
on wine-grape holdings and assured that
they would make competences in the pro-
cess of establishing a big industry—and
big it would be if the licensing laws
were reasonable enough to admit of the
lingering prejudice against good Aus-
tralian wines being broken down —will
face blue ruin. Stevens was a stumbling-
block. As a representative of the
Riverina, more is expected of Mair.
Kirton, the Mornington (Vic.) man
who voted against Argyle’s censure
motion, has joined the Country party.
His accession enables Dunstan, now in
his fifth year of office, to claim that he
leads the biggest party in the House.
Self and followers number 22, whereas
there are 21 Laborites, 18 U.A.P. and
four Independents.


ROMANCE UP TO DATE.


- O. S. K. -
DE LUXE
To AFRICA and SOUTH AMERICA
By FAST, NEW MOTOR SHIPS.
Ultra Modern
M.S. "ARGENTINA MARU”
and “BRASIL MARU.”
Designed for Tropical Travel. Appoint-
ments include De Luxe Suites, Indoor and
Outdoor Swimming Pools, Ballroom, etc.
Regular monthly sailings from Kobe via
Hongkong, Singapore, Colombo, Durban,
Capetown to South America.
Other New Motor Ships to East and West
African and South American ports.
T'or particulars apply:
Managing Agents in Australasia,
BIRT & COMPANY (PTY.), LTD.,
i Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
JAPAN’S ECONOMIC CHALLENGE.
CHAIN STORES.
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING.
MINING NEWS FROM ALL FIELDS.
August Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 21 - PER COPY, or £ll2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States
The Mutual Life and Citizens 1
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £28,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,200,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
PERSONAL ITEM S
It is hard to believe that Big George
Donald, secretary of Australia’s oldest
hospital (Sydney General), is dead,
Tall, heavy-shouldered, always bright
and good-humored, he was the very
impersonation of life itself. He was
one of the many six-foot Townsville
men who made their mark in Sydney,
His early years were spent in the sugar
industry, but when the war broke out
he was one of the members of the
Kennedy Regiment who were rushed
away to Thursday Island as a garrison,
and he died on the 25th anniversary of
his departure on that expedition. He
went to the front in 1916 as an artillery
officer after serving for sorpe time at
Pt Cook (Vic.), and had been in charge
of the affairs of Sydney Hospital since
his return from the war in 1919. He
passed at 51.
Arthur Telford Donnelly, of Maori-
t j u- \ f *u- r> 3
land, subject of this Roman-Emperonsh
Frith sculptu , s .
Krests. Hes chairman of the
N.Z., a director of all sorts of concerns
—breweries, moving pictures, drapery,
etc. —a member of the board of gover-
nors of Canterbury College, an ex-presi-
dent of the N.Z. Racing Conference and
ex-managing commissioner of the N.Z.
Cricket Council. He has acted as arbi-
trator in industrial disputes which, be-
cause they had resulted in strikes, couldn’t
be dealt with by the Arbitration Court,
and is remembered in his home town,
Christchurch, as the fairest Crown Prose-
A.T. DONNELLY.
(Modelled by Frith.)
cutor the city ever had. Save in his
legal capacity, Donnelly lays no claim
to special knowledge. “I’m just a lawyer
who happened to get mixed up in these
things” is his way of putting it. The
measure of his wide interests is a measure
of the confidence of his country in his
judgment and integrity.
Fred Dennet, Melbourne tailor, has
been preparing local males for the advent
of royalty by informing them that their
fashions are sadly out of date, such im-
portant details as what flower to wear
in the buttonhole being practically ig-
nored in Vic. No proper Englishman, he
says, would regard himself as otherwise
than naked if he did not carry a red
carnation, artificial or real, when wearing
a dress suit. Dennet ought to know. He
is an Englishman, and was educated there
as a musician. He toured the world as
a solo pianist, visited Melbourne and then
returned to settle down in the tailoring
trade. As governing director of Henry
Buck, Ltd., he knows both the selling
and the buying side of men’s civilised
habiliments, and what he says about
tendencies in dress goes generally for Mel-
bourne nowadays.
Lieut.-Col. Harry Murray, appointed
to command the recently-formed militia
battalion in Western Queensland, is the
Harry Murray who holds the V.C.,
C.M.G., D.S.O. (with bar), D.C.M. and
Croix de Guerre. Hailing from the
Speck, he enlisted as a private in W.A.
in 1914, made his name in the 16th Bat-
talion, and attained his present rank four
years later. Since the war he has been
woolgrowing in Queensland. He is 53.
Signing off next November will be
E. C. Bluett, secretary of the N.S.W.
Local Government Association for the
last 30 years. A solicitor, he has been
guide and philosopher to city and coun-
try Bumbles in all their worries, and his
coaching college has put many young
men (and not a few women) on the
right local government track. Bluett
took over in 1909 when the association
had 33 members and
its bank balance was
£2 13s. 7d.; to-day it
is one of the strongest
organisations of its kind
in the world.
Just-dead novelist
Leonard Merrick was
the chronicler of Paris’s
Montmartre, but he had
some slight connection
with Australia. He
spent some months in
Melbourne a few years
ago recuperating his
health for fresh labors.
He was one of those
writers who had the
misfortune to be given
a label by another dis-
tinguished writer. J. M.
Barrie called him “a
novelist’s novelist.” It
was as absurd a distinc-
tion as to call a sur-
geon a surgeon’s sur-
geon, but it stuck to
him and affected his
popularity with the
public.
Gregan McMahon,
who is preparing a fresh
series of plays for Mel-
bourne’s Christmas, in-
cluding a new outbreak
from the pen of Shaw,
started the repertory idea in this
country 27 years ago, and there are
graduates from his school of act-
ing with “shops” in New York,
Hollywood and London. Two of his
proteges to hit the eye of London pro-
ducers recently have been Ken Tuck-
field and Jos Ambler —the latter in films.
The whole of the cast of 15 now per-
forming “Libel” at Melbourne Comedy
have been under his direction, from
Reginald Newson, who started with him
in 1912. to the enormous Alec Pratt, his
latest discovery.
Robert Keith Wood, newly installed as
president of the S.A. Chamber of Com-
merce, is South Australian by birth. On
leaving school he went into the family
business —G. Wood, Son and Co. —-
founded by his grandfather, and starting
on the bottom rung in 19ip climbed to
a directorship in 1921 and chairmanship
of the co. in 1926. He is also a director
of various other companies. Used to be
Commissioner for Toe H in Australia,
R. KEITH WOOD.
and in the war served in the French
Army, earning the Croix de Guerre. He’s
48, plays golf, and enjoys a hard-fought
set at tennis.
From “Seventeen Years”:
James MacCallum Smith, whom Perth knew
for 35 years as MacCallum Smith of the
“Sunday Times,” died last week, aged 71. A raw
young Scot from Inverness, he came to Sydney
close on 50 years ago and got a bit of ex-
perience on the commercial side of journalism.
Going to Coolgardie (W.A.), he ran a paper
with one of the Hockings, and then moved on
to Kalgoorlie, where, with the late Arthur
Reid as partner, he started the “Sun.” It was
a moneyspinner from the beginning, and the
partners put some of their profits into the
“Sunday Times,” buying it from the widow of
the eloquent and still-remembered Vosper,
M.L.A. Reid dropped out of the partnership,
and the “Sun” was eclipsed during the long
Kalgoorlie slump; but the “Sunday Times”
prospered, and because of his association with
it Smith became M.L.A. for North Perth, 1914-
1939. Two or three years ago he sold his con-
trolling interest in the paper to Jack Simons
and Victor Courtney. They changed the policy
from rabid separatism to Australianism of
the kind for which Deakin stood, and without
its backing Smith —who had carried the secesh.
petition to Westminster —lost his hold on North
Perth. He had other interests —a stud farm
on which he bred Suffolk Punches, wheat-
farms, cattle- and she;;- an partnerships and
city investments, and a. director of the old
W.A. Bank he helped to sell it to the ’Wales.
Twice married, he died childless.
Bas'l Burdett, Melbourne “Herald’s”
art critic, has returned from Europe with
a loan collection of 200 modern paint-
ings arranged for by his paper, and local
modernists are agog about it. Works by
Cezanne, Van Gogh, Gauguin, Matisse
and others will be among them. The Van
Gogh is said to be insured for £400,000.
Epstein will be represented amongst the
sculpture, and also Maurice Lambert, son
of George Lambert. The first show will
be held in Adelaide.
Capt. A. E. Bencke, who sailed beyond
the sunset in Brisbane at 63, had an un-
usually varied life-spell. After a Con-
way training he did several years of
marine surveying on the coast of China,
with many queer adventures ashore and
afloat. He came to Australia in 1906 as
mate of a tramp, and was commanding
one of Howard Smith’s passenger ships
eight years later, when the war came
and he took the Canberra oversea on
transport duty. After three years of post-
war service in the same line he swal-
lowed the anchor in 1922 to become a
Brisbane executive for the Ford motor
organisation, and later on manager o!
Austral Motors. Shortly before his un-
expected death he took over the secretary-
ship of the Queensland Blind Institute.
A lifelong bibliophile, he owned one ot
the best private libraries in the State,
picked up volume by volume in halt
the ports of the world.
George Ritchie, after three months’
illness following a fall, has resigned his
post of Chief Secretary in the Playford
Cabinet of S.A. He is 75, and has had
37 years in Parliament, occupying latterly
almost every Ministerial position in turn.
Agriculture as connected with finance is
his special strong suit. McEwin, who
succeeds him at 42, is another practical
farmer and stockbreeder from the north-
ern part of the State. He is an old Prince
Alfred College boy, and has been in the
Legislative Council only since 1934.
E. J. Hanson, Queensland’s new
Speaker, brings to the job seven years
experience as Chairman of Committees
and 15 as a member, not to speak of a
couple previously in the old Leg. Council.
He succeeded John ’Uxham in the Bui-
anda seat when that legislator went to
London as Agent-General. E.J. is given
to modest reticence concerning one stage
of his early career—he was a Queensland
Mounted Infantryman in the Boer War.
was mentioned with distinction in dis-
patches and collected the Queen Victoria
medal with five clasps.
Probably no event in the last 20
years has caused so much joy in
N. S. Wales criminal circles as the
retirement from the Bench of Dis-
trict Court Judge Curlewis. Since 1917,
when he first donned a Judge’s wig in
the criminal jurisdiction (he had been an
Industrial Court Judge before that), he
has expressed his detestation of mean,
cowardly and cruel crime in forthright
manner, though, as might be expected of
one who, off the Bench, was the kindliest
of men, he knew how to temper justice
with mercy. But he showed no mercy to
DISTRICT JUDGE CURLEWIS.
counsel who misused the King’s English.
Born at Bondi 70 years ago, the Judge
got his law degrees at Sydney Uni.,
where he was- Challis lecturer from 1911
to 1917. He married novelist Ethel
Turner, and has a son and a grandson.


“Here’s The Way
To StoD That Cold.
• • O
k
/
Wolfe’s Schnapps contains
medicinal properties found
in no other spirit
The way to feel fit and well every day
is to take a daily glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps
—it sends a rich glow of health right
through the system.
Wolfe’s Schnapps contains unique medicinal
properties found in no other spirit and is
highly recommended to tone up the system.
Take it hot with lemon at bedtime and
r
you will wake bright and fresh in the
morning.
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
For Your
Health’s Sake


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: When old “Dash-me-rags”
Smith took his family into the bend and
started to swing Douglas among the grey
box, stacking the result on the river bank
for sundry steamers to pick up, he little
expected the squatter’s lady to descend
upon him with the following: “Mr.
Smith, I know you could not be like the
other men about here, who work hard
and then spend their money on drink
and betting. Not with a wife and those
dear little children. As you know, we
have a savings bank branch at the post
office at the homestead. I’d like you to
rise it. Might I inquire where you have
been depositing?” The old woodcutter
surveyed the far bank of the river
thoughtfully. “Well, missus,” he said,
“I get Bs. a ton for the wood an’ stack
about 12 ton a week. Some o’ the
money goes t’ support the missus an’
kids, some f’r axes ’n’ files ’n’ horse-
feed. Most o’ what’s left I keep in chaff
bags, ’n’ when they’re full I generally
have t’ borrer a woolpack or two. I
s’pose it’d be all right f’r me t’ get a
couple at the station” But the
visitor had departed.
“Merino”: On my farm this lambing
season a black ewe gave birth to a black
lamb. In 40 years’ experience on the
land I have never seen or heard of this
before. Has any other Abo. reader, I
wonder.
* * * *
“Swampy”: During heavy midwinter
rains the swampy part of my N.S.W.
farm was under water and, as usual in
a wet year, the home of numerous swans,
cranes and ducks of all descriptions ; but
this time two seagulls have been calmly
walking around one of the paddocks.
With the fog over the swamp, the noise
the swans make closely resembling a fog-
horn, and the seagulls, it wasn’t hard to
imagine oneself at the coast instead of
200 miles inland. Evidently the seagulls
mistook it for the sea also.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: Away up in the Mellick-
Mungie Mountains (Vic.), a man can be
lost in the seven-acre open timber maze
and never find his way out. There are
snow-gum patches and dense scrub,
plateaux and rugged mountains, and the
State’s greatest waterfalls. Unless you
happen to be one of the few men who
know the way you’d better not try to get
there. And if you have heard of the
great fishing be still more on your guard.
Where scrub-mad cattle and wild dogs
can go so can the Fisheries Inspector.
With his crime staring him in the face
a youth sat in a small clear pocket hold-
ing, his rod over the bank, when the in-
spector broke through. “What are you
doing there?” he asked. “Trying to get
an eel,” was the reply. “An eel! Then
why have you got that trout tethered in
the river?” “Oh, that cow! He kept
taking me bait, so I tied him up till I’d
finished me fishing!”
* * * 9
“Benn”: Yes, “Cam Cove” (B.
2/8/’39), there is a tree in Australia at
least 1000 years old if science is right.
It is the macrozamia palm, known as
Grandfather Peter, at Tamborine, in
South Queensland. A lot of hokum was
spoken about its being the oldest living
thing, older than the Californian red-
woods. A conservative estimate, how-
ever, fixes its age at anything from 5000
to 15,000 years. Some time ago vandals
chopped down the ancient; but, re-
planted, it still flourishes. Incidentally,
Grandfather Peter is a female of the
species. Near by, in Lamington National
Park, are a number of Arctic beeches,
unique outside the actual Arctic regions.
They are believed to be immensely old,
certainly more than a mere few centuries.
* * * *
“W.8.D.”: This business of Cassidy
saying “moile,” foine” and the loike (B.
26/7/’39), leaves me cold. I’ve listened
to hundreds straight out from the “Dis-
thressful Oisle” —no, Isle —and haven’t
heard it from one of them ; only stage-
and “Punch”-Irish talk that way. Brogue,
altered positions of words in sentences
(H. V. Morton has a good word to say
for this practice in his In Search of Ire-
land) and mispronunciations (some of
which are survivals of old forms, once
correct) —yes! But for the love o’ Mike
let’s drop this “Oireland” and similar
nonsense.
* * * *
“Old Charlie”: “I was fishin’ down
the river from Bourke one time,” said
Harry, “when I got a tremendous bite.
Being unable to shift me line, I fastened
it to a tree close, gets me ’orse, and,
’itchin’ the line to the saddle, I tries pull-
in’ in the catch. Me nag’s just bein’
yanked into the river when a bloke comes
along with his team o’ fourteen bullicks.
It was a tough go, but we managed to land
that there Murray cod. Probably would’ve
brought a few quid if I could’ve got it
into Bourke, but the bloke wouldn’t risk
knockin’ up ’is bullicks. Still, it comes
in useful, even now. Any time I’m
campin’ down that way I don’t ’ave to
bother pitchin’ a tent. I just chuck a
tarpaulin over the skeleton an’ crawl
inside.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: J. H. M.
Abbott (B. 26/7/’39) has cleared up a
culinary mystery which has puzzled me
for 40 years —how or whether the giant
clam of the Barrier Reef ever came to be
converted into a palatable food. Cook,
Banks and Solander all refer to their
appreciation of it as served on the En-
deavour while in those waters. After re-
peated efforts, which included everything
from continuous stewing for 48 hours to
soaking in vinegar and mincing as patties,
continued over years, I came to the con-
clusion that they must either have mis-
taken some other shellfish for it or were
ornate blanky liars. Now is revealed the
culinary genius who wrought that miracle
—John Thompson, cook of the Endeav-
our, whose baked shark and cuttlefish soup
also brought praise from the epicurean
Banks. Alas, that death should have
claimed him before he could return to
put eighteenth-century England on the
gastronomic map! More “alas!” still,
that his secret died with him.
* * * V
“E.S.”: The old fable of the frogs
and the well has an Australian parallel
in real life. A teamster who was carry-
ing to and from the Neardie (Q.) anti-
mony mines one morning while muster-
ing the team discovered his best bullock
at the bottom of an old mining shaft,
30ft. deep. The shaft went straight down,
with barely standing room in it for the
tumbled beast. Having neither ropes nor
blocking tackle, the owner decided to
raise the bulky form to the surface with
a pick and shovel. Breaking the bank
away on one side only so as to lessen
the filling by making a slope, he care-
fully shovelled the earth down into the
shaft. Straggler obligingly lifted his feet
as the accumulation crept up his legs
and threatened to bog him. It was a
long job, but the bullock gradually rose
and finally walked out.
'Hey, you—lend us your bailer /”
“Admiral”: We are a sociable crowd,
and no one minds the fact that Phillip 1S
a terror to talk, but unfortunately he
babbles of such foolish things at such
incongruous times and asks such inane
questions with such unfailing regularity
that he is in danger of becoming a by-
word among us. Ernie summed up his
trouble thus: “He doesn’t wait to make
sure his mind is turning over before he
puts his mouth in gear.”
*
“Golden Point”: Old-time alluvial
diggers invariably held the opinion that
their nuggets were shed from a mother
lode and washed over and over downhill
by some turbulent stream. Some un-
doubtedly were. But modern geology,
assisted by crystallography, has decided
that most nuggets grew, and grow, right
where found, in situ. The chief solvent
of gold is chlorine, existent in prodigious
quantities in common salt. Given an
earth containing sulphur and a percent-
age of manganese oxide, common enough
almost everywhere, a shower of rain
will liberate chlorine. Given gold, the
more finely divided the better, and a
chloride of gold is formed —to be washed
along with surface runlets, anywheie.
Given a nucleus of metallic gold, how-
ever small, and electrolytic action will do
the rest —a nugget will start to grow.
By such interaction of natural elements
and compounds such a nugget as the
Westralian Golden Eagle was formed, 70
pounds solid weight of gold. Diggers
might spend lifetimes seeking the mother
lode that shed that mass.
# * * *
“Bardoc”: If the Italians really are
using the eucalypt and the wattle to re-
claim the desert sands of Libya (B.
19/7/’39) they are overlooking the tree
that can really do the job. And it isn't
an Australian, either. Forty years ago,
when firewood demands started the rapid
denuding of the thin forests of the W.A.
goldfields, municipal authorities turned to
the Chinese pepper-tree. That proved to
be the real tree for the desert. Beauti-
fully umbrageous, it will grow and spread
until big enough to shade a camel team,
and vie with the spinifex in survival
through the toughest drought. To-day it
has practically become a new flora, re-
plenishing areas where probably the
salmon gum and the gimlet would grow
no more. Old abandoned mining camps,
once flourishing little municipalities with
annual arbor days, are now developing
into forests ; everything else has vanished,
but the peppers that once lined streets
optimistically thought to be permanent
live on.
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: The snake has to bow
to the go. as an immerser. In the N.T.
the giant plain goannas can exist com-
fortably on the bottom of a sheet of
water for 24 hours and more. Accord-
ing to H. M. Hale, Director of the Adel-
aide Museum, one tested in South Aus-
tralia came up as lively as a cricket after
seeing the clock round twice on the
bottom of a pool.
* * * *
“Flight”: It’s almost possible to tell
whether a bird’s an insect-eater or a seed-
swallower by the manner of its flight.
Take the insect-snappers first. It’s part
of their job to grab the elusive insect on
the wing. With some of them that means
quick doubling, dodging and twisting.
The bird’s flight is adapted accordingly,
and even when he isn’t on the job he
flies as if he is. His flight is in short
jerks, a few flaps, a turn and twist. Take,
for instance, the flight of the willie-wag-
tail. That bloke flies from place to place
in much the same manner that he chases
a fly. In fact, that jerky flight can readily
be turned from a trip to a hunt on the
pressing of a trigger. Next take the
herbivora. Those fellows haven’t got
to stalk wary game on the wing. Their
job is only to get from place to place as
quickly as possible and to dodge sudden
death from the skies in the shape of
hawks while they’re travelling. They
don’t indulge in jerks and fancy twists.
Their mission in life doesn’t call for it —
take as examples pigeons, finches and
parrots.
* * * *
“Sea-foodster”: A beachcombing dere-
lict on a stretch of desolate W.A. coast,
Old Joe took all that Nature and fortune
sent him. He had two drum nets sunk in
the pools inside the just-offshore reefs.
These caught fish in plenty, and an occa-
sional shag. Diving down into 20ft. of
water the shag, enticed by the imprisoned
fish, would somehow wriggle through the
narrow, funnel-shaped entrance; and
once inside the wire-netting cage it was
doomed. Trapped, it drowned. Skinned,
it filled Old Joe’s pot. He called it
poultry, though the aroma of its cooking
was a meal in itself for the average
human stomach. Joe snorted when I de-
clined a second helping. “Some o’ youse
blokes is too dainty, turnin’ down good
seafowl. What I’d really like ter get
you eatin’ is a feed of stewed alligator.”
THE BUDGERIGARS.
The budgerigars are here again,
A glimpse of green in the seeded grain,
And a bevy of dainty shapes that spill
A mist of spring on the distant hill.
The budgerigars are here; the sun
Has caught them lightly and tossed them on
As they rode the wings of a winter wind
With the careless courage that marks their
kind.
The budgerigars are here; the rain
Has lured them back to the open plain,
Where at dusk of day the river’s brim
Is loud with praise of their evening hymn
Till tall trees gather them, one by one,
As grey mists shutter the sinking sun,
Whose last effulgence seems to hold
The world in thrall to a gift of gold.
The budgerigars are here, I know;
I heard them twittering sweet and low
In the soft excited way they do
To the old grey gums as they rustled through.
And ere their emerald jewels were flung
To the open sky like a necklet strung
Of living gems, the silver lace
Of the mulgas came to match their grace.
The budgerigars are here again,
A shower of voices bright as rain,
A flash of delight that has set aflame
The land and my heart since the day they
came.
QUEENSLAND.
E.R. MURRAY.


“So long, Claudius — l'll be seein yer!"
“Dungeness”: When Ginger Reilly
finished his customary ninth-beer story
of how Bluey, faithfullest of dogs, had
howled and died at the exact moment
when his former master had stopped a
bullet on Gallipoli, a stranger, whose
appearance suggested salt water, butted
in. “When didger say the dorg started
’owlin’, mister?” he inquired. “Just on
ten at night,” replied Ginger. “An’ w’en
was the bloke scuppered?” went on the
stranger. “Same time, same night—got a
letter from a mate of ’is sayin’ so,” re-
plied Ginger in a superior tone. “Some-
thin’ wrong somewhere,” said the
stranger. “Gallipoli’s about eight hours
behind ’ere on Greenwich time. That
there dorg muster bin a ruddy prophet,
mister—ten at night there’s about six
next mornin’ ’ere.” Ginger eyed him
sourly for a moment and smothered a
hiccup. “Well, yer silly goanna,” he
asked, “wot’s wrong about that —didn’t
I bury the pore old dorg at six the next
flamin’ mornin’?”
H= * * H=
“Tid’apa”: Yes, and if the reef-dodger
looks closely at the collection of shells
lined outside the home of the reef octopus
(B. 2/8/’39) he will find at least one shell
or carapace that has a considerable
amount of flesh left attached. This bait
attracts other crustaceans that quietly
settle down to the unexpected meal until
death, in the shape of a long tentacle,
snakes out of the hole like a streak of
lubricated lightning. Then the trap is
reset, and octo. settles back and awaits
the next meal ticket.
* * * jfe
“Denham”: For all the advance of
science in the development of electrical
phenomena, from vast power-stations to
radio and splitting the atom, no one yet
has satisfactorily explained the electric
ray, or (more commonly) the numb-fish.
Wandering through the shallows of Shark
Bay (W.A.) I accidentally trod on one. Salt
water made the best of contacts —but
not for long. My pals momentarily
thought I was practising the highjump.
Later we found these fish fairly plenti-
ful, so much that one needed to be
careful in handling the long net. They
were darkish in color, over a foot long,
and something like a cross between a
flathead and a stingray. Dissected several
in the attempt to solve the source of
electrical supply, but found only a mul-
titude of what the professor called cells,
hundreds of them packed along both
sides of the head ; said cells shaped much
like fleshy honeycomb. Filling these
was a kind of jelly. But there were no
metal or carbon poles such as man finds
necessary for the production of a battery
current.
* * * *
“Fong Tsz”: Dr. G. W. Goddard told
the Queensland Royal Geographical
Society recently that the early Euro-
pean explorers who discovered Aus-
tralia were antedated by John China-
man. He is translating the records of
the Emperor Ying Sung, or such of
them as were left intact after the Boxer
Rebellion, and it appears that a num-
ber of kong kongs sailed round Aus-
tralia and in 1431 presented a map of
it to Sing which was “better than those
made by Cook, the early Dutch and
Portuguese explorers.” Might be —cer-
tainly there were Chinese here at some
time or another because some of the
northern tribes have a good many
Chinese words in their languages ; but
there must have been, also, a lot of other
Asiatic visitors in the dark ages. In
Kalkadoon, for instance, punde, the name
of the wattle flower, is Tamil for yellow
and gold, and the word for flowing water
is kamu (Turkish, yamurgh, rain) and
for a billabong kulla (Turkish, geul, a
lake).
* * * *
“Nit Ellub”: The new hand was down
bright and early for his first day’s work.
After receiving theoretical instruction in
the method of adjusting a bridle and bit,
he was sent to a far paddock to bring
up the grey mare. We were beginning
to get worried as the day wore on and
he didn’t turn up, and we were just about
to set out to search for him when he
put in an appearance sans mare. He
said he had searched everywhere but
couldn’t find her. All hands ceased work,
and a search party was formed. When
we got down to the paddocks there was
the missing one in her usual place. Taxed
for his apparent lack of veracity, the n.h.
said: “Cripes, I saw her all right, but
you said you wanted a grey mare. That
one’s white!”
“Bogaduck”: I’ll
nominate clear-
ing heavily-timbered
land by hand labor
as one of the hardest
tasks that a man
tackles. You begin
by wading into the
trees with an axe
and a can of poison,
and for weeks you
chop frills low on
the trunks and pour
the poison into them,
always walking in
circles, with the re-
sult that you get so
giddy you lose all
sense of direction,
and you have to stop
to get your bearings
before you go to the
next tree. Then when
the timber is dead
follows another
seemingly endless
task burning off.
Day after day the
endless circuit of the
fires, levering logs
together, bobbing up
and down like a
feeding emu as you
pick up sticks and
toss them into the blazing heaps, and
stoking up those hard and obstinate
stumps. And then—here’s the hardest
part—when, three seasons later, if the
rains have been normal, you are rewarded
by a dense stand of clover and grass,
some idiot who can never visualise what
it was like when you began to work on
it says: “My word, you were lucky to
get a place with such a nice big lump of
open country in the middle of all this
thick scrub! ”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: How is it that such an in-
sinuatingly self-assertive animal as the
cat failed to secure for itself any men-
tion in the Old Testament, though numer-
ous kinds of birds, beasts and fishes are
mentioned? Even if it was not a favored
animal in Palestine, or amongst the
numerous peoples with whom the Heb-
rews were in regular contact, the
Egyptian captivity must have made it
familiar to them. There cats were re-
garded with respect, even reverence, as
being specially associated with the god
Bubastis, and with the moon. Embalmed
cats have been found in many Egyptian
tombs, some in lavishly ornamented
coffin-cases. India and China were well
acquainted with cats in periods coeval
with the ancient Hebrews. There were
plenty of mice or rats in Palestine—wit-
ness the obviously rat-conveyed plague
which smote the stealers of the Ark.
* * He *
“Enmac”: “Bogaduck’s” drover (B.
26/7/’39) would abandon his strips of
rubber as a fire-lighting device if he lived
in Gippsland (Vic.), where in winter
wood is sodden as soaked damper. Fred’s
supply of old tubing would do little more
than burn a hole in the middle of a heap
of sticks, leaving the ends steaming and
smoking but without flame. Petrol brings
that hot drink in a quarter of the time
with a tenth of the trouble.
When we were hauling
bananas to the packing-shed, a bag
had to be sent out to cover a
bunch with a large carpet snake
coiled in it. The snake was only
removed by cutting the bananas from the
bunch, and was sent back in the bag on
the overhead carrier with a note, “Please
let me loose.” The next bunch came in,
covered again, with a note, “Look out
for her baby.” A small “carpet” was re-
moved and returned in the bag with a
note: “Where is its twin?” What was
my surprise when, suspended in a loop
on the carrier on its next haul to the
shed was a frilled lizard! A note went
back: “You win.”
* * * *
“D. 0.”: I have seen canoes in many
parts of the South Seas, from the sea-
going Santa Cruz ones with houses on
the outrigger, complete with wife, kids,
pigs, dogs and fowls, to the crazy affairs
built by some islanders which tip over
or sink if a passenger bats an eyelid out
of dead centre ; but nowhere have I seen
better canoe-building than on the Island
of Futuna, in the New Hebrides. On
that isle there is not a tree more than
15in. in diameter, and the longest barrel
you could find would be 20ft., yet they
build canoes to carry up to 20 and more
men. Years ago, when on a steamer that
called there, I measured two canoes on
the beach, 82ft. and 91ft. in length
respectively, and both 3ft. 6in. deep. I
was told they built them even longer in
the old days. To see the way they scarfed
the tree-trunks together, which formed
the bottom, and locked them with a per-
fectly fitting three-block-and-T mortise,
bored, dowelled, laced and bound with
coconut-fibre rope, was a lesson in wood-
fitting. They carry the sides up with
planks cut from the trees to the required
height, these also strongly fitted and
bored and laced with coconut-fibre rope.
After being caulked off with breadfruit-
tree sap, the craft was dry, strong and
seaworthy. But the most amazing thing
about the building effort was that all the
timber had to be brought down from a
2000 ft. high plateau with cliffs on all
sides, having to be let down with native
ropes. This meant having to dress all
the trunks and planks down to the desired
shape and dimensions before lowering to
bring the weight down to manageable
proportions. Tools were sharp shells,
stone axes, hot stones, firesticks and
so on.
* * ■■¥ *i
“Mundowie”: Cockroach, a rabbit-
poisoner on a nor’-western N.S.W. run,
went into town once a fortnight “to gei
the phosphorus out of his system,” and
very rarely got through the process with-
out a fight or two, the result of some
thoughtless person insulting his dog.
Sometimes he was run in, dog and all,
and when he returned to camp he belted
Barker, an ugly mongrel whose only
use was to keep Cockroach company.
“Why don’t you leave the dog at the
camp when you go to town?” he was
asked. “Well,” he said, blinking out of
one eye, “I don’t feel at home without
him—like a bloke that’s lost his walking-
stick.”
“If y' don't come up in five minits we'll pull the plug out!"
THE TRIUMPH.
It was an August morning,
And all was wondrous still,
And silence fell—-we felt it fall —
On hollow and on hill.
Yet through the ferns and bracken
We came with sounding tread
To wake the ancient echoes,
And dew the grass with red.
Peace did we come to slaughter,
And fine it is to tell
We mowed her down, we saw her fall,
And gloried when she fell.
Then, as, athirst, red vintage—
Fine wine, rich wine—we quaffed,
The ancient cynic echoes,
Aroused from slumber, laughed.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


\\VxaV
4#'!
<
If you were suddenly empowered by a deceased
friend’s will to manage liis estate, what would
you do?
On the other hand, what would your friend do
if you placed him in a similar position?
These and other perplexing problems are avoided
by the appointment of The Trustees Executors &
Agency Company Ltd. as Executor or Co-
Executor. The Company has had over 61 years’
experience of estate administration and offers
undoubted security for the performance of its
duties.
Full information will be afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
yOR
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
1-5 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
and at
401 & 403 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £959,810
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
ADAMS' CTATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- aiul 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone MIGOI.
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-50 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart. __
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney
Dividends, Written
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Off. Reserves.
1929. . 655,194 473,901 50,000 4,271,508
1930.. 637,619 473,901 50,000 4,385,226
81 p.c.
1931.. 441,816 402,816 4,424,226
51 p.c.
1932.. 253,866 280.646 4,417,446
5 p.c.
1933.. 259,077 236,950 20,000 4,419,573
1934.. 256.731 236,951 20,000 4,419,353
1935.. 263,937 236,951 25,000 4,421,339
6 p.c.
1936.. 298,227 284,341 25,000 4,410,225
61 p.c.
1937.. 342,041 308,035 25,000 4,419,231
7 p.c.
1938.. 365,975 331.730 35,000 4,418,476
1939.. 377,454 331,730 35,000 4,429.200
Last week James Ashton, who succeeded
George Judah Cohen at the head of the
board table about six years ago, died ;
his place has been taken by E. R. Knox,
who is also chairman of the big C.S.R.
The late Mr. Ashton was also chairman
of the Mutual Life and Citizens’ until
he retired about a month ago for health
reasons.
The very solid C.B.S. is second biggest
of the associated trading banks in Aus-
tralia, and for close on a century it con-
fined its activity to its home State and
Queensland. But in 1927, when it took
over the Bank of Victoria, it gained a
very substantial business in the southern
State, with small and growing connec-
tions in South Australia. During the 12
months covered by the latest accounts,
there was a sharp fall in export prices,
especially for wheat, wool and base
metals, which is reflected in a contraction
of £945,381 in the co.’s deposits, of
which about 61.7 p.c. is interest-bearing
as against 60.6 p.c. at the previous
balance: —-
1932. 1938. 1939.
Notes .. .. £13,815 £13,621 £13.602
Bills .. .. 1,158,933 1.349,094 1,154,948
Deposits* .. 44,466,426 54,659,194 53,713,813
Liquids .. 18,952,981 22,344,911 20,895,574
Advances . . 34,643,037 41.795,388 42,114,246
Premises, etc... 1,818,090 1,204,965 1,206,620
* including provision for contingencies.
To meet this shrinkage in deposits—it
affected the extent to which the co. could
extend its lending connections —and add
only £318,858 net to advances, liquids
were drawn upon for £1,449,337, reduc-
ing them to 38.1 p.c. of liabilities to the
public as against 39.8 p.c. a year earlier.
When the books closed, advances were
78.4 p.c. of deposits, compared with
76.4 p.c. in ’3B and 73.8 p.c. in ’29. Also,
the bank was holding approximately £6
of the public’s money for every pound of
its own.
It all means that, according to the
accepted canons of banking in Aus-
tralia, the co.’s resources are just about
fully employed. Obviously any further
reduction in the co.’s cash resources
would have further restricted its capacity
as a lender, which is its chief service to
the community. In these circumstances,
compulsory deposits with the central
bank would probably have driven this
trading bank to borrow from the central
institution, thus increasing the trading
bank’s overhead, with the consequent
danger to its own borrowing customers
of a higher price being charged for loans.
Apart from this, the chief effect would be
to make the central bank feel more like a
dictator.
Locally trade continued to expand till
about the last quarter of the term. So,
despite conditions conducive to smaller
earnings in the exchange market, the
management, after allowing for contin-
gencies, was able to write net earnings
£11,479 better than the previous year’s
at 7.9 p.c. on the £4,739,012 of capital,
compared with 7.7, 7.2, 6.2, 5.5, 5.4, 5.7,
5.3, 9.3 and 13.7 p.c. back to 1930. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was only 4.1
p.c., which is little better than the return
to be had from Australian Consols. The
div. was kept at 7 p.c. For the first 30
years of this century a steady 10 p.c. was
paid. But those days have gone, and, so
far as bank earnings are concerned, it is
difficult to say when, if ever, they are
likely to return.
Over the last couple of years the price
of the £25 shares paid to £l2 10s. (the
other half is reserve liability callable only
in the event of liquidation) has fallen
steadily in the market from £2l ss. to
£lB 17s. At £lB 17s. the return is 4.6 p.c.
on a 7 p.c. div. basis. The visible cover
is £24 3s. Bd. in net tangibles.
As for the current term, much will
depend upon the effects of taxation, upon
seasonal conditions and prices, Govern-
ment borrowing and international de-
velopments.
Berlei, Ltd. v
t Dividends ,
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1929.. 16,595 2635 Iftp.c. = 12,479 1481 29.577
1930. . 13,064 3712 74,, „ 9,361 29,568
U.S. A. rights sold; intangibles reduced.
£1965 31,533
1931.. 17,629 4000 71 p.c. = 9,361 4268 35,801
Unexplained additions to reserves, £2300.. 38,101
1932.. 15,650 4000 8 p.c. = 9,985 1665 39,766
Unexplained reductions, £2300 .. .. 37,466
1933.. 14,675 4000 8 p.c. =10,352 323 37,789
Unexplained additions to reserves, £1500.. 39,289
1934.. 19,645 4000 8 p.c. =11,005 4640 43,929
1935.. 19,245 4000 8 „ ~11,005 4240 48,169
Bonus scrip M.L. subsidiary, £2560 .. 50,729
1936.. 25,182 4000 10 p.c. =13,756 7426 58,155
1937.. 25,463 4000 10 „ ~13,756 7707 65,862
1938.. 26,282 4000 10 ~ ~13,756 8526 74,388
1939.. 21,278 4000 10 ~ ~13,756 3522 77,910
This 30-year-old and its two subsidiaries
—one in Maoriland, which set up in
1923, and another in Victoria, where
manufacture began in 1927—-supply most
of the women of Australia and the
Dominion with their corset and brassiere
requirements. Following its anthropo-
metrical survey of Australian women
about a dozen years ago, the co. evolved
standard type garments and a mechanical
indicator, thus increasing the efficiency of
its service and widening its goodwill, of
which no account is taken in the books.
Excepting the slump period, which inter-
rupted a flow of 10 p.c. divs., the business
has never looked back since. For the
10 years to the close of last accounts,
divs. averaged 8.7 p.c., the lowest being
7.5 p.c. The tariff and exchange adjust-
ments provided the management with
fresh opportunities, of which it made the
most, and as conditions improved sales
increased, unit costs came down, earn-
ings benefited and selling prices were
lowered.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts business is reported well
maintained, but higher production costs,
owing to new wage awards and bigger
tax payments, are reflected in a contrac-
tion of £5004 in declared net earnings.
The yictorian pup, over whose figures the
curtain is kept drawn, “had a successful
year and contributed the usual quota” to
the parent’s profit. The Maoriland sub-
sidiary paid the customary \l\ p.c. from
declared net earnings equal to 21.3 p.c. on
its £50,000 of capital. Another offshoot,
Berlei (U.K.), Ltd., formed in London
about the end of 1929, has not yet con-
tributed to the pool, though it has made
good technical progress and is earning
small profits.
The £21,278 of profit claimed by the
parent was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 12.5 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 15.9, 15.3, 15.1, 11, 11.3, 8.2, 8.7,
10.9 and 7.4 p.c. back to 1930. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c. Although the immedi-
ate outlook suggests a slackening rather
than a quickening of trade activity, and
costs, including taxation, are still climb-
ing, prospects of the 10 p.c. div. being
maintained are encouraging.
Finances are comfortable:
1933. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £189,824 £190,057 £190,057 £190,057
Overdraft . . 28,067 32,133
Sundry creditors 6,431 9,571 24,429 19,194
Freeholds .. '32,910* 60,863 62,374 62,792
Plant . . 11,182 10,563 10,383 10,964
Investments-)-. . 53,174 80,383 89,043 89,854
Stocks .. 87,517 58,848 100,938 105,757
Book debts . . 48,426 34,680 60,852 54,507
Cash, etc. . . 8,194 9,961 2,228 4,297
* Less mortgage, f Shares in subsidiaries.
The growth of £4819 in stocks —they are
the largest item in the sheet and appear
at or under cost —and contraction of
£6345 in debtors’ balances suggests thal
trade was less brisk than it was a yeai
ago. Fixed assets, however, are reported
in first-class condition; and much de-
pends upon that. The more or less liquid
surplus (£113,234) was £1712 stronger
than at the previous balance.
The' drop in earnings surprised the
market, which shortened its bid for the
f.-p. pound ords. from 40s. a few weeks
back to 365. 3d. following publication of
the accounts. At the lower figure the
return is 5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
On the same basis the 10s.-paid contribs.
at 18s. 6d. yield 5.4 p.c. and the prefs. at
30s. return 5.3 p.c. The net tangible
cover per pound of paid capital is £5 7s.
2d. prefs. and 31s. Id. ords.
Millaquin Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1929.. 62,428 10 p.c. = 50,000 12,428 209,106
1930.. 62,657 9 „ ~ 45,000 17,657 226,763
1931.. 65,251 9 „ 45,000 20,251 247,014
1932.. 66,195 9 ~ „ 45,000 21,195 268,209
Loss.
1933.. 6,627 6 „ „ 30,000 231,582
Profit.
1934.. 63,168 7 ~ „ 35,000 28,168 259,750
1935.. 65,123 8 ~ ~ 40,000 25,123 284,873
1936.. 72.364 9 „ ~ 45,000 27,364 312,237
1937.. 57,569 9 ~ 45,000 12,569 324,806
1938. .. 59,437 11 .. 55,000 4,437 329,243
1939. . 62,640 11 ~ „ 55,000 7.640 336,883
Milling is the backbone of earnings,
which are supplemented by returns from
refining and from a fine wad of invest-
ments (£396,562) outside the business.
The investments consist mainly of Aus-
tralian Consols (£319,588), shares in
Bundaberg Distillery (in at £64,951, or
£43,000-odd below face value) and fixed
deposits (£lO,OOO, down £35,000). The
distillery was destroyed by fire in 1936
and rebuilt during the following year,
when 8 p.c. was distributed, with en-
couraging prospects of more later. Re-
fining (about 12,500 tons) is done under
contract with the Government, and the
profit therefrom is moderate.
Millaquin doesn’t disclose the quantity
of cane it puts through the rollers, either
from its own plantations or from out-
siders. But last season was a bumper
one, and other mills in the Bundaberg
district reported record crushings. Despite
a drop of approximately 12s. per ton in
the average price for all raws, exclud-
ing excess sugar, and after providing
£18,693 (up £118) for depreciation, the
co.’s declared net earnings were £3203
better at 12.5 p.c. on capital as against
11.8, 11.5, 14.4, 13 and 12.6 p.c. back to
1934. The div. was kept at 11 p.c.
The price of raw sugar in Australia is
fixed at a high level in order to cover
loss on the surplus exported and so pro-
vide a payable average price for the
whole crop. The next table shows what
has happened in this connection over
the last eight years:
Total
Purchased, Export, Australian Average
Season. Tons. p.c. Price. Price.*
1931.. 605,000' 50 £26 19 0 £lB 6 6
1932.. 533,000 37 25 2 3 19 6 1
1933.. 667,000 48 23 18 6 17 4 3
1934.. 642.000 51 24 0 0 16 10 11
1935.. 647,000 48 24 0 0 16 17 0
1936.. 782,000 54 24 2 0 17 1 4
1937.. 810,000 55 24 0 'O 17 11 0
1938.. 822,000 56 24 0 0 1619 1
* Excluding excess sugar.
With exports now restricted under inter-
national agreement and home consump-
tion fairly steady, the continued growth
of production has called for more effective
control than the Peak Year scheme pro-
vided. So the Government has decided
to pay a single pool price for allotted mill
quotas (737,000 tons), which are suffi-
cient to meet present home consumption
plus international export quota, with a
bit extra to five small mills. For the
1939 season, additional production up to
7 p.c. of mill quotas will be allowed, and
paid for at export price, to cover the
recent increase in the international quota.
Any further production in excess of mill
quota will be paid for at the nominal
rate of 10s. per ton.
On the basis of mill quotas and in-
cluding the extra 7 p.c. already referred


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Tabi
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
r'V'rjprjfeijQ
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SOUTH AFRICA
- -n-iMttfiiii
m
F°r
BREATHTAKING.
EVER RANGING
Above:
The mighty Victoria
Falls the world's
greatest twice as
wide, and over two
and a half times as
high a$ Niagara.
Information obtainable from all offices of
The new 27,155 ton Sha w
Sav i l l M. Vessel
“Dominion Monarch” calls at Sydney,
Melbourne and Fremantle en route to
Durban and Capetown,
Durban is only 10 days from Fremantle
by this Fast Luxury Liner.
DDLGETV & CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
Agents for South African Railways throughout Australia and New Zealand
METROPOLITAN WATER, SEWERAGE AND
DRAINAGE BOARD, SYDNEY
£1,500,000 LOAN
GUARANTEED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Interest 4i% p.n. Price of Issue Pur (£100)
Repayable Ist September, 1952
The Loan is secured upon the income of the Board
from whatever source arising and is a Trustee Security
in New South Wales. Queensland and Tasmania.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE RECEIVED at any of the offices in
Australia of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia and the Bank
of New South Wales or through members of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
THE MINIMUM AMOUNT that may be applied for and allotted
is £lOO, and applications for amounts in excess of £lOO must
be for multiples of £lOO.
APPLICATION MONEY AND INSTALMENTS will be accepted
free of exchange at any of the offices in Australia of the Com-
monwealth Bank of Australia and the Bank of New South Wales.
INTEREST at the rate of 4i% per annum will be payable
half-yearly on Ist March and Ist September in each year. The
first interest payment to be on Ist March. 1940.
CASH SUBSCRIBED TO THE LOAN shall be paid in accordance
with any of the following options:—
OPTION No. I—ln full when the application is lodged.
OPTION No. 2—A deposit of 10% with the application, and the
balance by instalments as under:—
30% by 9th October, 1939.
30% by 6th November. 1939.
30% by 4th December, 1939.
OPTION No. 3—A deposit of 10% with the application and the
balance of 90% or any balance outstanding at any time paid
in full upon any of the abovementioned dates or any
intervening date.
The Loan has been underwritten by Messrs. J. B. Were
& Son (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
375 Collins Street Melbourne; 44 Martin Place. Sydney,
and 39 Lombard Street, London.
Copies of the Prospectus and Forms of Application may be
obtained from the Commonwealth Bank of Australia or the Bank
of New South Wales at any of their offices in Australia, or
from the Board's Head Office. 45 Reservoir Street, Sydney, and
Branches.
LOAN NOW OPEN
and will close not later than sth September. 1939, but the Board
reserves the right to close without notice at any prior date.
Metropolitan Water, Sewerage
and Drainage Board
45 Reservoir Street
SYDNEY
T. HAYNES UPTON. President
W. O. C. DAY. Secretary
to, and assuming that exports average
£8 ss. per ton, the 1939 season’s all-
round average price would be £l6 13s.
sd. for the five small mills and £l5 for
all other mills. Excluding the extra
7 p.c. the prices would be £l6 14s. 6d.
and £l5 19s. 6d. respectively.
Millaquin’s mill quota has not been
broadcast. Appearances are that there
will be some reduction in earnings during
the current term, but the 11 p.c. distri-
bution (4 p.c. of it is labelled special
bonus, paid from returns from invest-
ments) might not be interfered with.
Much will depend upon seasonal develop-
ments.
Finances are snug:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital . . . . £500,000 £500,000 £500,000
Sundry creditors . . 102,814 95,962 104,617
Freeholds, refinery, etc. 333,580 327,508 329,360
Plantation, etc... * .. 58,036 58,248 58,181
Railways and tramways 33,213 34,611 32,542
Stocks 88,541 91,653 89,143
Book debts . . . . 9,909 9,379 10,085
Investments . . . . 426,762 431,762 396,562
Cash 7,579 12,044 63,12 7
Outstanding movement during the year
was the transfer of £35,000 from fixed
deposit to current account, which moved
up £51,083. The board gives no hint
as to what it wants the extra ready cash
for. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£454,300,
equal to 18s. 2d. per share) was £5424.
The market sees no cloud in the co.’s
sky and prices the £1 shares, covered by
335. sd. in net tangibles, at 40s. 6d. At
this figure the return is 5.4 p.c. on an
11 p.c. distribution.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends. Written To Re-
June, Profit. 12 i p.c. Off, Etc. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929 .. 39,626 25,000 2000 12,626 206,976
1930 .. 37,911 25,000 2000 10,911 217,887
9 p.c.
1931 .. 25,427 18,000 1000 6-427 224,314
7 p.c.
1932 .. 22,186 14,000 1000 7,186 231,500
1933 .. 20,760 14,000 1000 5,760 237,260
8 p.c.
1934 . . 24,947 16,000 3000 5,947 243,207
1935 .. 25,842 16,000 5000 4,842 248,049
101 p.c. M
1936 .. 29,212 21,000 4000 4,212 '252,261
Staff ins. reserve taken in, £10,000.. 262,261
10 p.c.
1937 .. 27,021 20,000 6000 2,021 264,282
1938 .. 28,400 20,000 6000 3,400 267,682
1939 . . 31,419 20,000 5000 . 6,419 274,101
This is the biggest trustee co. in Aus-
tralia and one of the largest in the world
as well, and a very solid and progressive
institution it is, too. When the books
last closed the £200,000 of paid capital
had the support and assistance of
£274,101 of reserves ; so the two com-
bined need turn in only 4.2 p.c. to pay
10 p.c. on capital alone, and that leaves
returns from the trustee and agency sec-
tion of the business out of the reckoning
altogether. Further, apart from the small
chance the co. takes when investing its own
funds, it hasn’t got to risk much. When-
ever there is doubt about the interpre-
tation of a will there is always the Court
to go to for instruction. The co.’s own
funds, together with £24,567 (down
£2232) coming to outsiders, are repre-
sented by well-let premises, etc., with a
book value of £113,967 (down £2468),
Government securities £202,495 (up
£2930), mortgages, etc., £108,136 (down
£4379), debtors’ balances £4765 (down
£1245), cash £59,305 (up £6859) and
£20,000 on deposit with the State
Treasury.
For many years this and other trustee
cos. had to fight hard to overcome
prejudice. But as the advantages of the
corporate over the private trustee became
known more business came their
way, and still more has been driven
into their care by recent legislation
winch has complicated the administration
of estates. During the last dozen years
the Perpetual—it was formed in 1886—
has put on almost as much weight as it
did during the preceding 41 years:
Exes.
Gross Ex- p.c. of
Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1911 . . £8,853,862 £27,895 £16,850 60.4
1921 . . 18,432.862 77,404 65,261 71.4
1927 .. 29,967,269 115,512 86,509 74.8
1929 .. 36,358,047 138,092 104,397 75.6
1930 .. 39,023,614 147,893 115,555 78.1
1931 .. 41,152,590 143,665 120,141 83.6
1932 .. 42,364,572 127,070 110,115 86.6
1933 . . 43,910,904 126,230 109,727 86.9
1934 .. 45,812,450 132,468 112,379 84.8
1935 .. 48,115,327 140,427 118,543 84.4
1936 . . 49,843,142 150,994 125,983 83.4
1937 .. 61,675,485 158,379 133,581 84.5
1938 . . 54,068,638 168,225 143,019 85.0
1939 .. 57,144,759 178,385 152,299 85.3
Last term the value of estates put on the
books exceeded the value of those wound
up by £3,076,121. Income from all
sources moved up £10,160, and exes,
took £9280 of the increase. Including
£5333 added to the commission reserved
account (£126,276) —it is the unearned
portion of the corpus commission—but
deducting the £5OOO (£2500 written off
premises and £2500 sent to the staff
fund) shown as written off in the table,
the net result was £3019 better at 13.2
p.c. on capital as against 11.7, 11, 12.5,
10.4, 10.9, 9.8, 10.5, 12.2 and 17.9 p.c.
back to 1930. The div. was kept at 10
p.c.; it had been steady at 12i p.c. for
the dozen years to the close of accounts
in 1930, since when the lowest paid was.
7 p.c. in ’32 and ’33.
Though money promises to be tighter
and values may ease a little, increased
taxation will probably affect the net
earnings of these trustee cos. more than
anything else. Still, unless something
unexpected happens it is unlikely that the
Perpetual’s 10 p.c. will be interfered
with.
The market prices the £lO shares paid
to £2 —the other £8 is a reserve liability
callable only in the event of liquidation
—at 955., at which figure the return is
4.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis, with
possibilities as a long-term investment.
The cover is 945. lOd. in net tangibles.
Standard Portland Cement, Ltd. (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1029.. 47,268 8 p.c. = 33.936 13,332 28.535
1930.. 47,872 8 „ ~34.690* 13,182 41.717
1931.. 39,451 5i „ ~ 27,459 11,992 53,709
1932.. 22,257 4 „ „ 19,970 2,287 55,996
1933.. 42,810 6 „ ~29,955 12,855 68,851
1934.. 56,666 7£ „ ~ 37,444 19,222 88,073
1935.. 52,134 7 „ ~ 34,948 17,186 105,259
1936.. 42,973 7J „ ~33,450 9,523 114,782
1937.. 44,881 8 „ „ 31,952 12.929 127.711
1938. . 59,853 10 „ „ 39",941 19,912 147,623
1939.. 48,233 10 „ „ 39,941 8,292 155,915
•Includes 1 p.c. on deferreds.
This is the co. which kicked off in 1926
with a Government contract and a
100,000-ton-p.a. plant, which it put up
on the Mudgee line about 150 miles
from Sydney. Divs. began to flow in
1929, and have not ceased since, despite
slump and aggressive competition, the
average for the last 11 years being 7.4
p.c., with wide margins for reserves ; and
that was after making what looks like
liberal allowance for depreciation.
The co. shares the N. S. Wales market
with four other producers, aggregate
plant capacity for the State being over
720,000 tons, and another co. is preparing
to come on to the market. Last year’s
sales of cement throughout the State
totalled 430,000 tons (up 7000 tons).
Standard, however, found it difficult to
keep its order-book as full as in the previ-
ous term, and the board wrote net earn-
ings £11,620 lighter at 12 p.c. on capital
as against 14.9, 11.2, 10.7, 10.4, 11.3,
8.5 and 4.4 p.c. back to 1932, the worst
year of the slump. That was after allow-
ing £40,000 for depreciation as against
£40,000 and £25,000 for the two preced-
ing terms. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.,
and the £8292 that remained lifted free
reserves to £155,915, equal to 6s. 3d.
per share. .
As for the current term, the price of
cement was reduced toward the close Of
last accounts, and costs, including taxa-
tion, continue on the up-grade, while


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does be possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
Directors'.
0 E FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
E V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L. SHAM, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY 7 , T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metal's, Scrap, ‘ or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
For the best value in ENGINEERS’ TOOLS—
William Adams & Company, Limited. These tools
fully, illustrated and priced in, our 1939 General
Catalogue. Write to 17.5 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
your free copy, — Advt.
OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD.
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED 30TH JUNE, 1939.
The Estimated Mine Profit is from permitted quota sales before providing depreciation and
DOES YOUR
WIFE KNOW
YOUR
FINANCIAL
POSITION ?
THERE are two ways of ap-
proaching this question: (1) a
tearful way, and (2) a cheerful way.
The cheerful way is to say: “My
dear, I’m assured for only £5OO.
That would not give you and the
youngsters nearly enough to live
on should anything happen to me.
I propose to ask the A.M.P. to
increase it to £lOOO now, and more
when I can afford it. Should I die,
that would pay off the mortgage
on the cottage and any small debts
I might have, and give you a
chance to battle along.”
Would she object to the slightly
increased outlay? We think not.
Later she might encourage you to
take out an additional policy to
protect your own old age.
On an average, one family in two
is now using the A.M.P. to protect
it in some measure. Peace of mind
comes with adequate protection.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to
send a man to tell you how cheaply
this peace of mind may be bought.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phor„e: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
increased expenditure on defence works
should strengthen the demand for cement.
Still, the 10 p.c. div. might not be inter-
fered with. Much will depend upon
maintenance of Government spending.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1927. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £466,691 £499,257 £399,406 £399,406
Creditors . . 169,248 32,315 43,150 40,046
Freeholds and
plant . . 522,335 399,773 328,711 375,059
Investments . . 35,009 35,009 35,009 35,009
Stores a n d
stocks . . 35,774 32,922 38,399 43,794
Book debts and
cash . . 22,160 186,601 209,439 160,875
The programme of plant modernisation
was continued during the year, the out-
lay on equipment being £46,948 more
than was written off, which ought to
mean much so far as costs are concerned.
The contraction in the more or less
liquid surplus (£164,623) was £40,065.
Since the beginning of 1939 the 16s.
shares have fluctuated between 235. and
20s. 6d. on the market. Last week-end
the figure was 225. 6d., at which the
return is 7.1 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c.
div. continues. The backing is 225. 3d.
in net tangibles.
Sydney Water Board Loan
Sydney Metropolitan Water, Sewerage
and Drainage Board is on the market
again, this time with £1,500,000 4% p.c.
13-year stock or debentures at par. The
loan, which is a trustee security in N. S.
Wales, Queensland and Tas., is secured
upon the income of the board, and both
principal and interest are guaranteed by
the State Government. At June 30 capi-
tal indebtedness of the board was
£43,371,687, of which £20,748,228 was
owed to the Federal and State Govern-
ments, and the balance was raised on
the market. A sinking fund at the rate
of 10s. p.c. p.a. has been created against
all loans raised, and under its Act the
board is empowered to charge Is. 6d. in
the pound each for water and sewerage
services. The actual rates charged for
1938-39 were 9}d. and Bfd. respectively.
The loan has been underwritten by
J. B. Were and Son, and the Common-
wealth Bank and the Bank of N. S. Wales
are jointly acting as issuing houses.
There has been some criticism of the
board for forcing up the rate of interest,
which is about 2s. 6d. p.c. above the
market rate obtainable from other Water
Board securities having a 10-year cur-
rency. Allowing for this and for the
general upward trend of interest rates
and other market conditions, together
with the fact that the issue has been
underwritten —a substantial part of the
previous par issue of £1,000,000 in May
at p.c. for 10 years was left on the
underwriter’s hands it is doubtful
whether the board could have done much
better. Truth is that when the supply
of new money savings is smaller than
the demand for loans at given rates of
interest, then the rates will tend to move
upwards. The opposite movement takes
place when new savings exceed the effec-
tive demand of borrowers. Lately Gov-
ernment and other public-body borrow-
ers have mopped up all the spare funds
available, and the demand promises to
gain rather than lose strength during
the next 12 months. The effect upon in-
terest rates will partly depend upon the
technique of the authorities responsible
for management of the market. No sharp
rise in rates need be expected.
The Swedenborg mine. Charters
Towers (N.Q.), is not looking so well
these days, and prospects are less favor-
able than in 1937-38, when Is. 6d. was
distributed in dividends. Operations
have been stopped on the bottom level,
No. 6 north, on 9in. of poor white stone.
Faulting on the south side of the shaft,
besides being a nuisance, didn’t lead to
an improvement in ore values. Three
feet of quartz has been tried out south
of the fault, but it was too poor even to
send to the battery. The stopes around
No. 2 south are still producing some
heavy mineralised ore, and 50 tons was
raised during the past fortnight. About
100 tons is now in the ore paddock,
while small parcels of prill go forward
to Chillagoe. The last six tons averaged
over Boz. per ton, but this is only a
drop in the bucket, and average mine
values don’t make a resumption of divi-
dends look too promising.
* * * *
The last crushing at New Gympie (Q.)
was not up to the former throughput, but
70 tons yielded 50oz. smelted gold from
No. 5 reef. These crushings should settle
the arguments of some of the old Gympie
miners that the gold did not go past the
Lady Mary crosscourse. While not rich,
they are an added encouragement to look
for the heavier plumbago beds, where
reef intersections are expected to yield a
heavier gold return.
* * * *
Gympie (Q.) in its decadent days
may well turn over to dredging.
Theories have been rife from early days
that the richest portion of the field was
swept by tributaries into the Mary River.
Stanley Hudson was a great believer in
this, and he had a lot to do with the
spadework that led to the formation
of Gympie Concentrates, Ltd., which is
to build a dredge of 500 tons capacity
per diem. It takes over the old interests
which have spent years in testing the bed
of the Mary with at times promising bore
tests. M. R. Hornibrook must be con-
vinced there is something in it, since he
is one of the new directors.
Hs % sfc %
The old Mareeba goldfield in the Far
North (Q.) is being scratched over again
by a few parties. It was a low-grade
field formerly, chief crushings averag-
ing only sdwt. to lOdwt. Small crush-
ings are now being sent to Chillagoe
Smelters, the best going 26dwt. gold per
ton. The shoots seem to be erratic, and
operations up to the present are all above
100 ft. depth. The reefs occur as inter-
laminated veins in schist as well as in true
fissures.
* ;Js :c
Latest profit of £11,205 of Gola Mines
of Australia, a prospecting and finance
float 62.3 p.c. owned by Gold Exploration
and Finance, London, reduces the accu-
mulated p. and 1. deficit to £73,524. Re-
construction is contemplated, involving
cancellation of capital unrepresented by
assets and distribution to those on the
register of major portion of the follow-
ing principal shareholdings: —-
G.M.A.’s Paid Market
Co. Holding. To. Value.
Vic. Gold Dredging .. 24,557 10/- £44,200
Triton Gold Mines .. 90,000 10/- 37,100
Morning Star .. . . 100,000 4/- Io.OUO
Over G.M.A.’s issue of 417,750 lOs.-paid
shares, priced at ss. Id. apiece in the
sharemarket, current value of that lot is
equal to 4s. 7d. per share. Taking a hold-
ing of 19,600 shares in Mt. Coolon (Q.)
in at Is. Id. each, the co. at March 31
held other net liquids, mainly deposits, of
£33,700-odd, or another Is. 7d. per
share; fixed assets figured at £8505.
The board is at present testing river flats,
held jointly with Gold Exploration and
Finance, downstream from Victoria
Gold Dredging at Newstead (Vic.);
where an extension of low-grade but
profitable wash has been proved. During
the year, approximately 60 other pros-
pects were examined without anything
worth while turning up.
* * * *
Central Gold (Adelaide) owns the
quarter-share in the Cox’s Find not held
by Western Mining Corp. The mine lies
some 45 miles north of Laverton (W.A.),
the ore-body occurring in the vicinity of
a drag fold in a bed of sedimentary rock
between lavas. Its remoteness and the
difficulty of avoiding ore dilution with
the soft surrounding graphitic schist and
other sedimentaries has made the co. a
high-cost producer. Last term working
costs alone jurnped 10s. lid, a ton:
Year Tons Gold, Dwt., Costs,
Mar., Treated. Oz. ’ Ton, Ton.*
1938. . 17,509 15,304 17.5 60/9'
1939.. 17,863 16,759 18.8 71/8
* Excluding development.
Recoveries, however, were approx. Udwt.
better, and before providing for deprecia-
tion profit from the mine was £2615 up
at £73,346. Developed ore above No. 4
level is put at 25,700 tons, assaying 18dwt.,
an increase of 12,700 tons in quantity but
a decrease of s.sdwt. in grade on the
figure 12 months earlier. For the first
four months of the current term re-
coveries have slipped to an average
14dwt.
* * * *
Western Mining Corp., holder of 81
p.c. of the share capital of Central Norse-
man, at Norseman, and 75 p.c. of Cox’s
Find, Erlistoun (W.A.), and itself almost
completely owned by Gold Exploration
and Finance, shows £39,358 (up £1058)
of profit for the year to March 31 after
providing for taxation ; all but the odd
£358 is reserved against properties and
investments, as against £49,500 in the pre-
ceding year. Most of the profit was con-
tributed by the Erlistoun mine, where
rich returns, though not as good as they
were, continue to be won. The Norse-
man co. has not yet reached a profitable
basis. Last term’s unfavorable showing
was £11,981 (up £593), but throughput
has been lifted to 8500 tons monthly,
and the outlook at depth, according to
technical managing director G. Lind es Y
Clark, has shown improvement. Also,
new vertical shaft (Ajax), to be con
nected up with the Phoenix inclined sha * ’
2200 ft. north, has been commenced witn
the idea of further increase in mill caP a '
city. While the ore-body has diminished
in size at depth, values are reported
“quite satisfactory.” Since the close o
accounts the Corp. has purchased the
Mistletoe mine, near Bullfinch, and other
small shows are being tested. At balance
date the co. had more or less liquids ot
£25,119 and owed £70,646, of which
£66,027 was coming to Gold Exploration
and Finance. In consideration for these
advances, the Finance co. has been given
an option over 150,000 10s. W.M.C.
shares at par until Sept. 30, 1940, and
over another 150,000 on the same terms
to Sept. 30, 1941, the options to remain
in force until the loans are wiped oft.
* * * *
Two wandering Adelaide cos. Apex
and Paris —have taken options on the
Blue Spec line at Nullagine (W.A.). Apex
has tried and found wanting several ven-
tures in its time, and Paris has also had
some experience in duds.
* * * *
Last month Triton’s milling results
were affected by damage to the shaft
through an accident to one of the skips.
Yield was £19,150 from 6013 tons. Still,
a 6d. div., the eighth, will be sent out on
Sent. 25.


HAMPTON COURT
KING’S CROSS,
N. S. W.
SYDNEY,
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
• Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
[lf
BEE
rs
m
FEE
Ct
EBP
FEE
ra
FEB
n
rop
FEE
ra
FF
erf
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates: Single Room
with private bath
from 10/6 per
night. Suites from
£l/1/- per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARUNGHURST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
Some old hens are inclined to think
that all men are rotten eggs.
*b *b
“Message-boy Now Postal Director.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Something to write home about.
■b *b *b *b
“Elephants Perform in Ballroom.”
—News item.
We’ve danced with them.
*b "b *b *b
A politician is a man who stands for
something that the public falls for.
*b *b *b
Most women are luckier than men when it
comes to backing horses.” —-Sporting paper.
But not when backing cars.
•b *b *b I *b
“Stunt-men for the films get £7 for being
hit on the head with a walking-stick.”
—Movie mag.
It would be easy money for a mar-
ried man.
•b *b »!*< «b
“Prisoners Form Orchestra.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Performers will still be nervous when
they see the baton being wielded again.
“British nationals have been advised to watch
their step in China.” —Sydney paper.
Many of them are too busy watching
their strides.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Some nations are talking a lot of
moonshine about their place in the sun.
•b 4* 4* 4*
“Our new Premier was a blacksmith in his
younger days.”— “Sun.”
He’s forged ahead since then.
4* 4' 4* 4*
“Whatever did Maisie have in view when
she appeared on the stage as a chorus girl.”
—Extract from nove}.
A row of bald heads, probably.
“How can I prevent myself from blushing
in company?” asks correspondent.
Try a wad of cotton-wool in each ear.
•F 4*
“When a woman is in love, you can read it
in her face.” — Women’s mag.
With a man, of course, you can read it
in his bank-book^
“’Oo said anythin ’bout fish? I'm showin' ’ee the width of the lode We struck yesterday.”
“Famous movie star was sacked from her
first job for amusing her fellow-employees.”
—Film mag.
And she’s never made the same mis-
take since.
4* *f*
“Men who risk lives for soup.”
— “World’s Nnvs.”
Cafetaria diners?
1*
If a girl’s looks are not just right she’ll
often be left.
4* ■i 1 4 1 4*
“Art Works Rejected by Germany.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
Strange! We thought Germany had
a fondness for collecting foreign land-
scapes.
•F 4* *i»
“Thieves take cough mixture.” — “D.T.”
Evidently their bark was worse than
their bite.
“Many famous birds are not represented in
any of the world zoological gardens.”
—Magazine item.
For instance, there are the stool-
pigeons, gaol-, blue-, gay-old birds,
bridge-table magpies and the big swal-
lows to be seen any afternoon between
5.45 and 6 —no, 6.20.
Experts.
“A sportswoman said that when a sporting
girl is in love she plays with greater zest.’'
—“Sydney Sun."
That sporting girls in love can be
More sporty is not news to me;
For they are quick to spot a catch,
And always keen to make a match.
For ring events they’re always fit
And know when they have scored a hit;
To reach one goal they always strive —
To set out on the wedding drive.
D. McM.
• a k V
“Typists in Quest to Aid Charity.’’— “Sun.”
The typist gave to charity,
But slipped a cog to-day ;
For, speaking to the boss’s wife,
She gave the boss away.
E.
Bright Times.
“Party Lost in Snow.”—' "Daily News.”
I’ve never been to that kind of party.
I’ve attended one where “snow” was lost
in the party, but that was very different,
because there it was terribly hot. It was
one of Cocaine Kit’s affairs up at the
Cross. The only cold things about it
were a couple of the guests, after Kit
went berserk when the “snow” was re-
ported missing.
I’ve also been to several parties lost
in a fog. These are pretty good, but
there’s always the element of danger, for
nobody knows exactly what’s going on,
and there’s liable to be collisions, etc.
It generally takes a few days and a lot
of gargling to get the fog out of your
head. '
Anyhow, I’d like to try one of these
that get lost in the snow. It’s such fun
getting that lost feeling at any sort of
party!
T.W.N.
She swore the man she wed must not
Be fickle, but a shining light.
Alas, the one at last she got
Was lit up half the day and night!
D. MC.
Culinary Carpentry.
“German scientists hope to produce an
edible synthetic meat from wood.”
A praiseworthy experiment this, which
will be even more so if they succeed in
making palatable the fried chips which
should go with a porterhouse from a
poplar. But actually my wife beat these
German savants to this idea long since.
She’s been handing out toast made
from buttered three-ply ever since we were
married, and my breakfast sausage is, I’m
sure, constructed from garden hose filled
with seasoned sawdust.
Pseudo sweets or desserts aren’t off,
either. Office clag, the yolk of one egg,
some milk and one half teacupful of
white beads brought to the boil make
our tapioca pudding. And chopped-up
toy balloons, pulped brown paper and
raisins mixed with flour, shellac and a
tablespoon of turps, steamed for two
hours, knocks genuine plumduff stiff at
our house.
Indeed, I have sufficient material at
hand to publish a compendium of syn-
thetic recipes, but my wife is jealous of
her art and I’m too chronic a dyspeptic
to make the effort.
P.O.M.C.
How to Become a Handyman.
A Complete Guide.
XVIII.
Where electrical power is at your dis-
posal, harness it whenever possible to the
odd job you are doing. Instead of tedi-
ously plying a small brush to enamel the
kitchen chair, rig up the “blower” of the
vacuum cleaner and spray it on. To
save a lot of bending and walking around
the chair while you are doing the job,
balance the chair on the turntable of
the gramophone, which you can get one
of the kids to keep winding. Regulate
the speed according to the number of
coats you propose putting on. If the
wallpaper in the room happens to clash
with the shade of enamel you are spray-
ing with, it will be easier to take the
gramophone out into the woodshed than
to try to get the enamel off the paper
afterwards.
There is a lot of rubbish talked about
the alleged dangers that may attend the
doing of your own electrical repairs.
Tackle them steadily—and with the
current switched off —and you’ll be all
right.
Concentrate on one article at a time.
One man I know who had a go simul-
taneously at practically every power
device in his home mended and re-
assembled them, as he thought, perfectly.
But when they got into action the toaster
started yawping a Bing Crosby number,
the radio sucked up into the loudspeaker
every mat that was within reach, the
vacuum had icicles all over-the bag, and
he finished up by making the toast in the
refrigerator.
When making a flyproof door for the
kitchen, don’t fool around taking
measurements for the frame. There is
always risk of mucking the whole thing
up by transposing figures, say 2ft.
instead of 6ft. 2jin., with the result that
when it is erected you have to get down
on your knees and crawl through the
door.
A better way is to take the kitchen
door olf its hinges, lay it down flat and
nail some inch-wide timber on to the
extreme edge of sides, top and bottom,
mitreing the corners. Thus, on pulling
the nails out, your frame must be the
exact size. Either tack or glue these
together.
Staple one end of the roll of flywire
to the top end of your door frame, tack-
ing the other end to the mangle. This,
on being given a few turns, will make it
taut and eliminate those unsightly creases
that always get into hand-stretched doors.
Lash the handle of the mangle so that
it won’t slip while you tack the wire on
to the bottom of the door. After tack-
ing down both sides, get the scissors and
snip off any surplus wire that is hang-
ing over the edges.
If you are depending on the ordinary
type of hinge that fits on to the edge of
the frame, no strengthening crosspieces
will be necessary, but should you prefer
to play safe and use large T-hinges, cut
a couple of pieces of timber wide enough
to take the hinges and long enough so
that when they are hammered between
the sides of the door they will fit snugly
in place without nails.
A poor flow of gas coming through
the taps in the stove indicates either a
serious leak somewhere or that the pipes
have become choked up. Test for the
former first, using only safety matches.
If, in spite of this, the meter goes up
through the verandah roof after you have
explored it with a lighted match, don’t
worry. That part of it is the gas co.’s
pigeon.
If no leak is detected it must be that
the pipes need de-choking. Cut the gas
off at the meter, and with the footprints
unscrew in turn each length of pipe,
starting from the meter end. Hold it up
and look through it. If you can see
only a pinpoint of light, put a cartridge
in your shotgun and, holding the barrel
in the pipe-end, pull the trigger. The
pellets should loosen most of the obstruc-
tions.
Now take the pipe up to the top of
the extension ladder and drop it on to
something hard that will not crack —an
ironbark stump will do. Be sure that it
falls cleanly on its end so that the thread
will not be burred. Repeat until it is
clear. Finally, pour some undiluted
muriatic acid down the pipe, which should
rest in a vessel so that the acid, after
being strained, can be used again.
When each pipe has been treated, test
it by screwing- it on to the meter outlet;
turn on the master tap and hold a light
to the end of the pipe. If your work
has been thoroughly done, a long blue
flame will shoot out. When they are all
in order, screw them all back. Office
gum painted around the joints will pre-
vent any leakage there. If any shotgun
pellets have penetrated weak parts of the
pipe the holes can be bound round tightly
with rag and painted over with thick
whitelead and oil.
S.W.K.


' •
:■ ■: .
1 s
:
m
m
•m
m
£9
3
AUSTRALIA-ITALIA
SHOWN]© ©§«AIW Qm
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .... £4,739,0.12 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. •• 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the, business) ; .. .
RESERVE CAPITAL • • 4,739,012 10 0
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Mend Our Ways
In Australia we have reached the stage
where we have to mend our ways or look
out for trouble. There is no doubt about
it. We are now on a much reduced
national income, and have been so for
the best part of two years (the present
time being the worst stretch to date).
But our costs are still rising, to the bene-
fit of nobody. What Australians must
make up their minds about, and make
them up quickly, is whether we are going
to start doing something voluntarily to
right the position, or whether we are
going to allow the mad dance of costs
inflation to go on until it crashes down
under its own weight. Voluntarily we
can do something in an orderly way,
without wide dislocation of business and
employment. If we wait until we have
to do something, it will be simply be-
cause disorder and chaos have forced us
into that position.
With export prices down to the lowest
level since 1933, when the average of
prices in Australian currency was 616
in the Statistician’s index, against 630 in
May this year and 648 in June, our costs
of production are not only higher than
in 1933, but higher also than in 1936 or
1937, when we were experiencing a
period of great prosperity. Wages are
up about 121 p.c. on 1936 rates, whereas
export prices for June this year were
down 20 p.c. compared with 1936, and
down 30 p.c. compared with 1937.
Looked at in another way, from the
recovery “peak” of April, 1937, to June,
1939, there was a fall in export prices, in
terms of Australian currency, of 35 p.c.,
which compares with a fall of 45 p.c.
from the boom of 1928 to the depth of
slump in 1931-32. Clearly, if world
prices show any further substantial fall,
we shall find ourselves with a slump-
time income, but with costs at a full-
blown boom level. Such a position would
be obviously bound to collapse. It just
wouldn’t' stand up. And a crash would
bring widespread wretchedness.
Latest available statistics are those for
June. July will be worse, probably,
owing to the slump in wheat to the
lowest level since the reign of Queen
Elizabeth, though a hardening in base
metal prices—lead and zinc principally
—may have a stabilising effect. In any
case, it was a bad month, and during its
31 days the Queensland basic wage went
up—a move altogether out of keeping
with our income. But, as invariably
happens in a critical period like the
present, arbitration bodies have to base
wage rates on inflating costs, not on the
falling national income.
There was a period —about the middle
of 1937—when the Federal Arbitration
Court took a different line, and awarded,
on the recommendation of economist
Reddaway, a “prosperity” addition of €s.
a week to the basic wage. It was not
based on the cost of living. This “extra”
was granted as a share in the national
prosperity during 1937, and it was hoped
that it would help to “damp down a
boom.” The idea that workers should
share in the prevailing prosperity was
excellent; but in practice the award has
been a disaster.
Early in 1937 President Roosevelt be-
came alarmed at soaring commodity
prices to the extent that he threatened to
deflate the dollar and brake down the
boom. The boom was bursting then, in
any case. In Australia the Reddaway
“Ace high; come on, 'and over your helmet .”
award became fully operative before the
end of 1937, and-we have had it; and the'
further increases that it has-been partly
instrumental in breeding, during 1938
and so far duringT939..
The Reddaway . award was a .well-in-
tentioned mistake. The cost of all items
of household expenditure, as computed
by the Commonwealth, Statistician, rose
8 p.c. between June, 1933, and June,
1937—a period of four years. In the 21
months from June, 1937, to March, 1939,
there was a further rise of 6 p.c. on the
1933 figure. While our national income
was rising steeply, in other words, our
costs rose slowly; since our national in-
come started to fall heavily our costs
have risen swiftly. A more threatening
association of dangers it would be hard to
visualise. Our economic strength has
been largely dissipated—gone with the
wind that accompanied war scares. As
The Bulletin pointed out time and
again when our present difficulties were
in the infant stage, the boom of the war-
scare drum was distracting us unduly
from our own affairs. All the
defence preparation we have made so
far could have been attended to without
the shameful neglect of the national
economy that has been evident during
the interval
me uucr ai.
Now squawking Premiers and
Treasurers scatter the landscape. They
haven't enough revenue; they haven't
enough loan-money ; their Budgets look
from sickiy to deathly. The cost, of
borrowing, has gone up, like everything
else,; and money is tight; so the squawk-
ing rises to a tumult each time'the Loan
Council meets on “important business."
Economics are so wrapped up with
government these days-that, primer facie,
politicians are . largely to blame for our
present predicament. Nobody has asked
them to stretch the deadening influence
of State-control to the enormous. lengths
it has gone ; heaven only knows why they
have been at such pains to complicate
laws, regulations and “control” to the
point where private enterprise is frus-
trated of its energy and shaken in its
moral fibre. National enterprise and self-
respect have suffered abominably at the
hands of Governments,
But Australia is a democratic country.
The people have their remedies, even it
the Y to stand for Parliament tem
s^ ves - Without standing for lar 1
diey can do a lot. A nation-wide »
nitl 9 n o 1 present economic *
Cljdt, es would be an excellent star .
then consideration oi some sacri
by those who can best aflord ie •
ast depression a genera re
m inflated figures brought us qmc y
t^ie woods, and to those who
eno . u gh 1° work during e i >
P en °d whatever was forgone g ,
sl urn P was repaid, in the mai ,
somely.
In Melbourne last week:
G. J. Coles and Co. announced a record
net profit of £255,361, up £12,984. An 18* p.c.
for the year had already been declared.
Qwing to the uncertainty about the future
of Barnet Glass preference shareholders (there
is a possibility of their being repaid or asked
to accept scrip in Dunlop Perdriau), the scrip
slumped to 235., recovering to 245. 6d. Not so
long ago there were quotes at 335.
Holeproof Hosiery, which makes both men's
and women’s hosiery, maintained its interim
ord. div. at 4 p.c. Last year it paid a final
of 6 p.c.
New Broken Hill Consolidated rose Is.,
to 16s. 6d. This interesting silver-lead stock
was mentioned in B. 9/8/’39.
Beau Monde’s profit slumped from £28,209
to £12,809, and the div. has dropped from 20
p.c. 'to 10 p.c. Fierce competition and high
prices for silk are blamed.
Milano, latest Westralian gold flutter, con-
tinued active at near £6 a share.
United Provisions ords. changed hands at
the firm price of Bs. 2d. A div. is due in
October.
Australian Distillery Co. announced a div.
of 3 p.c. There was no distribution in 1937-
38, and in 1936-37 the rate was 2\ p.c.


ARE yOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST
mmmmmmsmm
If not you owe it to yourself and
family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UtflT TRUST
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd*
Write for a Free Booklet to
, the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
and clean
Sheet steel isn't just "so much steel" unless it's
intelligently produced with an intimate know-
ledge of your needs.
That is why every man in the modem well-
equipped plant of Commonwealth Rolling Mills
is in a sense, your own employee. The word
is passed along about WHAT you want and
HOW you want it—and you get it.
Armco-Lysaght sheets bring cost savings and
greater profits from operations they punch
clean—they extend die life—they are backed
by a metallurgical skill that has been famous
throughout the world for over 30 years.
Finishes now being manufactured include Matt
Pickled, Satin, Velvet, Planished, Mirror and
Enamelling Iron.
Tell us about your problems and our technical
staff will gladly co-operate.
V
P T Y. LTD.
KEMBLA ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
'VP
( THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION )
ARMCO-LYSAGHT SHEETS
CRI4-9
BORN or RESEARCH
Sydney Stock Exchange has revised its
brokerage rates. Buyers and sellers of
industrial shares will both pay commis-
sion after Sept. 1, instead of only the
seller, as at present. The result will be
a slightly increased revenue to brokers.
For instance, at present the commission
paid by the seller on shares priced ( from
30s. Id. to 40s. is 6d. a share. Buyer
and seller will, after Sept. 1, each pay
4d. a share, total commission involved
being Bd., against 6d. In the case of
mining scrip, where both-ways commis-
sion has always been the rule, some
reductions have been made, though on
shares priced at 15s. or under no defi-
nite concessions operate. But if a
buyer sells mining scrip within six
weeks of date of purchase no selling'
commission will be charged in future.
This is a fairer arrangement than existed
previously, though, unfortunately, it will
encourage Stock Exchange dealings at
the wrong end—the gambling end.
Under a new (and desirable) regulation
scrip will be quoted “ex div.” the day
after the transfer books close, instead
of on the day the div. is paid.
Stock Exchanges are feeling the weight
of investment depression very keenly just
now. Three or four years ago, when
both gold and industrial shares were
booming, membership of an Australian
Stock Exchange was a most lucrative
post, and up to £5OOO was paid for a
seat in Sydney. Now the ’Change boom
is “all past and dead and gone,” and
some new brokers who paid high prices
for their seats have a capital investment
disproportionate to the income they are
now receiving. But another spring will
come—some day.
Brisbane ’Change has adopted commis-
sion rates similar to Sydney’s new table.
Melbourne hasn’t yet made up its mind.
* * * *
The report of the new Producers and
General Finance board, expected two or
three weeks ago, came out on August 5.
It was presented to shareholders yester-
day (15th). On taking over, the new
board found the co. in a dangerous finan-
cial position; it had been overtrading,
and the bank overdraft had got beyond
the stipulated limit. The co.’s activities
also were of a sprawling nature ; in the
words of the new control,
It was impossible, with the funds avail-
able, for the co. to carry on its en-.
deavors to build up a large cash-order
and hire-purchase business for both furni-
ture _ and motor-cars, to conduct the
activities of the Colonial Finance Co. Pty.
[a subsidiary], and, in addition, to find the -
capital required for furniture merchan-
dising through Bear and Co. Pty. [an-
other subsidiary].
The co. still has a substantial amount of
its funds locked up in Primary Producers’
Bank securities acquired, though a num-
ber of these were wholly or partly liqui-
dated soon after taking over, when wool
and wheat rose in price. Part of the
£200,000 parcel acquired by P. and G.
also found its way, apparently through
the graces of John Woolcott-Forbes, to
the regrettable Scottish Loan and Finance
concern. Woolcott-Forbes owes the
P. and G. something like £65,000, against
which the co. has only the security of
some partly-paid shares. Examination of
P. and G.’s accounts, it is stated,
revealed many instances of inefficiency and
extravagance, including excessive field and
office staff, high-salaried executives out of
all proportion to the profit-earning capacity
of the co., a cumbersome accounting sys-
tem, and unnecessarily large and expensive
premises.
The position of Bear and Co. has been
found unsatisfactory, the accounting sys-
tem until recently being inefficient. Colo-
nial Finance was in a chaotic state when
first looked into. \Vinding up is recom-
mended in this case. P. and G. £1 ords.
are at 2s. in the market, while the prefs.
are at 9s. Woolcott-Forbes is still “in
smoke.”
* * * *
In addition to arranging a conversion
of the £16,000,000 of Maoriland loans
falling due (the terms were 3£ p.c., six
years, £99), London granted fresh credits
to ML. to the extent of £9,000,000 ster-
ling. Handled through the Export Credits
Department, £5,000,000 of the money has
been earmarked for the Government’s
own purchases, presumably defence
equipment, and £4,000,000 will be avail-
able to cover “approved” exports from
Britain to Maoriland on behalf of private
importers in M.L. The arrangement is
described as “short-term,” but it will clear
away, for the time being, anyway, the
danger of a default in London interest
commitments. The Savage Government
is finding it very, very difficult to play a
lone Utopian hand in a hard, hard world.
* * * *
A new Sydney float of interesting size
is Ready Mixed Concrete, Ltd. Knight
Thomas Gordon, F. W. Newson (of Con-
crete Constructions) and W. A. Freeman
(of Placer Development) comprise the
board. The idea of the co. is to deliver
ready-mixed concrete'; to contractors in
accordance with specifications, Sydney
being the first field of operations. The
service which the co. proposes to render
has a wide vogue in the U.S.A. and Britain,
and has promise of being quite profit-
able on a reasonable turnover in Sydney.
By the formation of subsidiary cos. the
activities may be extended. The public
is offered 15,000 £1 ords. and 7500 8-TO
p.c. £1 cum. prefs. Cash payments of
£lOll will be made for plans, services
already rendered, etc., and F. W. Newson
will be entitled to apply for 5000 shares
(ord. or pref.) for cash any time within
five years after operations commence. He
will also for 10 years be entitled to 6d.
a cubic yard on all concrete sold by the
co. or its'subsidiaries, provided an 8 p.c.
div. has been jpaid for the year on all
share capital. R. Wood has been brought
from Canada on a five-year contract at
£1416 a year, plus 3d. per yard on all
concrete sold in years where an 8 p.c.
div. has been declared. Plant is estimated
to cost £lO,OOO, preliminary exes, are put
at £2250, and £5250 is set down as the
working capital if the co. goes to allot-
ment on the minimum subscription of
£17,500. It is actually asking for £22,500.
The promoters and management should
understand the business, and the small
capital, considered to be adequate, should
permit reasonable divs. from a compara-.
tively small turnover. Lamplough and
Wharton, of Sydney ’Change, are hand-
ling the scrip.
* * * *
Overseas the markets for most things
were dull at the end of last week. Base
metals were still at a comparatively good
price, but reaction was generally evident.
The sharemarkets were weak both in
London and New York, and in Australia
they followed suit. On Wednesday after-
noon Sydney “Sun” published a cable
to the effect that Russia was going to
lend China £28,000,000 (whether the cur-
rency was to -be in the form of dried
heads of ex-commissars, ex-comrades, etc.,
or not, wasn’t specified), and some
’’Change operators regarded it as good
news, and paid more for shares as a
result. But, though the tale was repeated
in the “Herald’! next morning, the market
had, overnight, time to reflect and repent,
and staleness was again the keynote on
Thursday and Friday.
* * * *
Argus and. Australasian, Ltd., has
sprung a pleasant surprise in the news-
paper world by showing a profit. After
allowing £14,327 for depreciation the net
result for the 12 months to July 1 was
£12,098, compared with a loss of £46,057
in the preceding year, which followed
acquisition and reorganisation of the co.’s
papers. Newsprint stocks have risen
£86,770 over the 12 months, reaching the
substantial figure of £157,103. This move
has been in keeping with current publish-
ing practice—the disturbed conditions
overseas justifying substantial buying
against future requirements of newsprint.
The co.'s outside liabilities (£165,563)
rose £60,359 as a result of financing the
increased stocks. Including establishment
account, etc., of the co.’s broadcasting
subsidiary, there were intangibles of
£185,898 net in the business at balance
day. Paid capital is £655,000 in 150,000
cum. prefs., 150,000 preferred ords.,
255,000 ords. and 100,000 deferred ords.
* * * *
Huddart Parker’s ord. interim div. for
the current term has been lifted to 7 p.c.
In the preceding year both interim and
final were of 6 p.c. each, but a 2 p.c.
bonus with the final made 14 p.c. for the
year. The sharemarket has firmed again
to 535. 9d. buyer.
Adelaide Steam shares, frequently
recommended here, were firm at 325. 3d.
last week, returning £4 7s. per cent, on a
7 p.c. div. basis. In 1937-38 an interim
of 3 p.c. and a final of 4 p.c. went out.
This term’s interim was 3\ p.c. A final
is due in September. Melbourne Steam
recently increased its distribution from
7 p.c. to 8 p.c.
* * * *
The return for July from Tableland
Tin’s No. 1 dredge at Mt. Garnet (N.Q.)
was 26 tons of concentrate from 60,000
c.y.—about .971 b. of concentrate to the
yard. Total value of the yield is put at
£4900, costs at £2500 and net profit at
£2400. The ord. shares, paid to 16s. 6d.,
have an unofficial market at 10s.
* * ■ * *
Australia has started the 1939-40 finan-
cial year with an adverse trade balance
of £1,337,000 for the first month. July
is always a bad month on balance, be-
cause it is a between-seasons period for
wool, shipments of which won’t begin
again on a large scale until well into
September.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“ Familiar Tactics” Over Danzig.
[The German “peace message” to the effect that
official Germany expected the Danzig affair to be
“settled peacefully 1 ' and did not expect an “August
crisis,” mentioned in an “Uncabled Additions” item
last week, drew from London “Times,” under the
heading “Familiar Tactics,” the “once-bitten” leader
comment here condensed.]
The “pacific” pronouncement made in Berlin on
the subject of Danzig has only made the nations most
closely concerned more than ever determined to remain
keenly alert and closely united. Their Governments
have not quite such short memories as German official
spokesmen sometimes seem to imagine; and they
remember clearly that last September, on the very eve
of action against Czechoslovakia, Herr Hitler an-
nounced that he approached “all seemingly impossible
problems” with a firm determination “to solve them,
if conceivably possible, in a peaceful way,” and that
the incorporation of the Sudeten Germans was “the
last territorial claim which I have to make in Europe.”
By the mingled threat and use of violence he has made
and satisfied two more claims since that occasion ;
and now he is making another.
This question also, we are told, “can be solved
peacefully.” But “Danzig must return to the Reich
unconditionally,” and is not “a subject of barter.” In
other words, transfer of Danzig must be uncon-
ditional ; negotiation on any such subject is “barter,”
and therefore beneath the dignity of the Reich.
Diplomacy must disappear before the mailed fist.
These views naturally commend themselves to no
other nation at all. They stand indeed self-condemned.
For in the same official statement the quid pro quo
to be granted by Germany was said to be “a long-
term guarantee of the Polish frontiers.” Who if not
Germany is in the least likely to attack the Polish
frontiers? And why should a new German guarantee
have any more value than the old, which was given
for 10 years and arbitrarily withdrawn after five?
It is extraordinary in the propagandists of Berlin to
suppose that their neighbors, after all that has hap-
pened, will pay more attention to words than to deeds.
In Warsaw the answer is a calm reaffirmation of
an attitude which has by now become axiomatic.
While the Polish Government is ready to settle by
peaceful methods outstanding questions connected
with Danzig, the country would at once be forced to
resort to arms if Germany realised her plan of annex-
ing the place, because she would know that she was
fighting “not for Danzig, but for her own indepen-
dence.” This view is wholly shared by the Govern-
ment and people of Great Britain.
Great Britain is determined and ready to stand by
Poland, not simply for the sake of the actual future
of the seaport, but because, if it were forcibly seized
and militarised by Germany, it would place Poland
first economically and then politically at the mercy
of the Reich. Both strategically and politically the
issue reaches much further than the allegiance of the
Danzigers. They for their part are traditionally self
governing and might well prefer, were they free to
express their inmost feelings, to be left with the status
and the Constitution allotted to and willingly adopted
by themselves after the war. However that may be,
the Free City was then demilitarised. Fortified and
in German hands, it would tip the balance of sea-
power in the Baltic in favor of Germany, and on the
land side command the approach of Poland to ner
only seaboard.
“The frontiers of Germany,” Herr Hitler writes
in Mein Kampf, “are fortuitous and temporary limits
in the course of the eterndl political struggle.” “The
boundaries of States are the work of men and are
changed by them” ; and “without an expansion of
territory a great nation seems doomed to go under.”
These dicta of the Fiihrer, and his policy since he
has ruled the Reich, leave little doubt that the seizure
of Danzig would not be the end of an adventure, but
a new beginning which might speedily lead to German
domination in Europe.
It is perfectly realised in Great Britain, except
by those who are wilfully blind, that the ultimate
challenge would then be to the British Empire, and
to everything that Great Britain stands for. The suc-
cess of Nazi Germany along these lines would be the
success of methods which have long been discredited
in civilised countries, and would set back spiritual
progress and the freedom of nations and of individuals
for an indefinite period. Great Britain and her friends
and allies are wholeheartedly determined to uphold
these causes ; and they believe that a surrender to
force at Danzig would be the loss of a vital bastion
in the defence of them.
The way to negotiation lies open; and, since
Germany is the party desiring a change, it is for Ger-
many to initiate diplomatic negotiation.
In the meantime in the Free City all available
labor is being used for building fortifications; young
men in large numbers are being trained in barracks;
new barracks are being erected ; and the police force
is being augmented. The military expenditure has
already had the most serious effects on the solvency
and prosperity of the City State. At the beginning of
July the Senate announced its inability to meet ts
foreign debts ; and many articles of popular con-
sumption are becoming scarce. Several of the minor
luxuries of life which had become rare in the Reich
were until quite recently still being enjoyed by the
Danzigers, but they too are now finding out what
the preference for guns over butter implies for the
ordinary citizen.
It is, and always has been, open to the Danzigers
to practise Nazism if they wish. But, when Nazism
claims the right to subject a non-German people to
the German will, there is a plain duty upon civilised
nations to resist it.
Aspects of the Jewish Problem.
[The items here condensed from various acknow-
ledged sources give some further information or the
views of those indicated on this thorny, if not utterly
insoluble, problem.]
{From a London “Sunday Times” leader.)
In Europe there are thousands of men and
women without country, possessions or calculable
future —living ghosts whose identity and existence
must sometimes seem dubious even to themselves.
Some 40,000 refugees have been accommodated
in Britain. Some of them, especially among the earliest
arrivals, may be regarded as a reinforcement of the
intellectual life of the nation ; and the Home Secre-
tary has quoted figures to show that these newcomers
have not ousted British labor, but have, on the con-
trary, established several thousands in employment.
But the refugee dilemma is too big to be solved
in that way —even if a steadily increasing Jewish popu-
lation did not arouse the hostility that Lord Dufferin,
the Under-Secretary for the Colonies, feared the other
day. In the Greater Reich alone there are still 850,000
Jews, and a problem which may persist for decades
can be met only by selecting vacant territory where the
ranks of the persecuted can begin life anew.
The cost of such community settlement is high,
and the burden of finding both money and suitable
land must not rest on the British Empire alone.
Britain has, alone among nations, already been essay-
“Haagsche Post,” The Hague.
TAKING HIM FOR A RIDE.
“Don’t go so fast, Adolf!”
mg colonising in Palestine ; but that single area, not
equal in size to Wales, cannot contain a tithe of the
Jews who now need a home.
Protest in South Africa
{From a “Rand Daily Mail’’ report .)
In a speech in the House of Assembly Mr. Eric
Louw said it should be the policy of the Union to see
that immigrants who intended to become permanent
residents must be of the kind who would be an asset
in the future. The most important aspect of the ques-
tion was that (he matter of selection should be regarded
from an ethnological point of view. The people who
came in should be more or less of the same ethno-
logical type as the two great races—the English and
Afrikaans sections —in South Africa. Immigrants
should be of the same type as the French Huguenots
and German immigrants of the past who had been
completely absorbed by the South African people.
What was wanted was the class of people who would
become one with South Africans and not exist as a
separate race group.
This problem only became important when the
numbers became great. There were many races in
South Africa whose numbers were so small that they
caused no problem. There had been no Jewish
problem in the past because the numbers of the Jews
had not been sufficient to cause one. But because
Jewish immigration had been too great, the Jewish
population in South Africa was now too large, and
Jewish immigration was continuing on a great scale.
Between 1928 and 1938, according to official
figures, there had been 16,882 Jewish immigrants, who
did not include British Jews and illegal immigrants,
who existed in great numbers. It had been expected
that the Aliens Act of 1937 would greatly reduce
Jewish immigration, but in that year there had been
1118 Jewish immigrants, this figure again excluding
British Jews and illegal immigrants.
In the first four months of the present year 528
Jewish immigrants had entered the country for per-
manent residence, and 449 Jews had come in on
temporary permits. A ship had just arrived carry-
ing 52 Jewish immigrants and this process was going
on continually. The time had come to put a stop to
that kind of immigration.
The people felt very strongly over the patter as
they saw this race gaining control of business ana p
fessions and callings. He received numerous letters
complaint about Jewish immigration, and nine °u
10 of these letters came from English-speaking pe p. •
Members of the Government party, both inside an
outside the House, felt strongly on the matter.
Nationalist party’s victory in the Paarl by-election
largely attributable to public feeling on Jewisn im-
migration. Failure to act on the part of the yov
ment was bound to lead to grave trouble ultimately.
“Illegal Immigration”
{From a speech by Mr. Malcolm MacDoruild in t ie
House of Commons, reported in the limes. )
“The majority of the Jews going into Palestine
illegally are refugees from Central Europe, but t a
is not the whole picture. Forty per cent, are from
Poland and Rumania. The British public does not
regard those people as coming within the term
refugee. Many of them have been resident in Polan
for years past. They are being organised and in-
structed by those responsible for the traffic when they
got on board ship to throw their papers overboard so
that when they got to Palestine there was no proot
whatever on which they could be accepted back in
their countries of origin. Those Jews going into
Palestine illegally are keeping out refugees trom
Central Europe whom one would like to see going in.
“What is going on about the immigration of
Polish and Rumanian Jews makes it perfectly clear
that this is an organised movement to break the im-
migration law of Palestine for the sake of breaking
it. It is an organised movement to try to, smash the
White Paper policy. I say that is a position we cannot
tolerate. Every country has got its immigration laws,
and no country will allow its immigration laws to be
broken with impunity. Palestine has got its immi-
gration law, and we cannot allow a situation to de-
velop in which that law is broken wholesale with
impunity.” . „
Colonel Wedgwood (Lab.): “You cannot stop it.
Mr. MacDonald: “I am only stating the facts.
The breaking of this law in Palestine is even more
serious in the circumstances than it would have been
for other countries. Colonel Wedgwood smiles. He
knows it and is glad. This illegal immigration is
creating a most grave situation in Palestine. It is
producing most grave unrest among the Arab popu-
lation, aggravating the bitter hostility and hatred that
exist between the Arabs and the Jews.
“I do not hide from the House, and the House
does not need reminding by me, that the people who
can have the greatest control over this illegal immi-
gration are the Jewish leaders and the Jewish people
themselves. (Cheers.) If they were so minded they
could reduce this illegal immigration very greatly
indeed. I think that we are entitled to ask for their
co-operation in this matter.”
Mr. T. Williams: “Does the right hon. gentleman
even hint that the official Jewish Agency in Palestine
is in any way responsible for this organised illegality?”
Mr. MacDonald: “I would not go so far as
definitely to say that. But there are other Jewish
authorities besides the Jewish Agency. There are
many sections of Jewish opinion inside the Agency as
well as outside it. Some of them are responsible in
part for this, and even the Jewish Agency itself,
although it may not be directly responsible for organis-
ing this illegal traffic, I think has condoned and en-
couraged it in some of the statements it has published.
I say that we are entitled to appeal to the Jewish
authorities and the Jewish people to put a check
upon this.”
A Visitor on To-day’s Italy.
{Condensed from a London “ Spectator” article by Sir
Evelyn Wrench.)
For the first time in my life I have left Italian
soil with a sigh of relief. Hitherto holidays spent in
Italy had always been a joy undiluted.
During a fortnight’s visit I sought every oppor
tunity of personal contact with Italians of all classes.
I take away with me an overwhelming impression ol
the friendliness of the Italian people. They went out
of their way to express their regard for Great Britain,
and their dislike of political conditions which are
estranging them from Great Britain and France. They
also expressed a cordial dislike of their increasingly
close association with Germany.
The other major impression that I carry away is
of the bitterness of the Italian press, acting doubtless
under instructions from the Government. It was a
painful experience for a lifelong friend of Italy to
find anti-British feeling expressed in almost every
column dealing with foreign news. The two chief
topics receiving attention were Anglo-Japanese tension
in the Far East and the Anglo-Soviet discussions at
Moscow. Headlines, right across the front page, in-
formed the reader of each new humiliation inflicted
on Great Britain by Japan, of London’s depression, ot
the new German revelations of the “warlike aims”
of the democracies. There were almost daily photo-
graphs of Japanese troops in action.
I looked in vain for any attempt to explain fairly
to Italian readers the British point of view. It was
difficult to reconcile the treatment meted out to Great
Britain in the press with the signing of the Anglo-
Italian Pact 15 months ago. The visit of Mr. Cham-
berlain and Lord Halifax to Rome seemed to belong
to another age. The travelling Englishman can surety
be excused if he thinks that the policy of Appeasement
has not had much effect on official Italy! The briei-
est of mentions was given to the visit of the King and
Queen to Canada and the United States. Every ex-
pression of opinion by Dr. Goebbels was cabled in


full, and current events were recorded from the angle
of the German Government.
If, however, the contact of the British visitor with
Italy through its press was unpleasant, the friendliness
of the Italian people stood out all the more. Italians
were only too ready to express their admiration for
British institutions, to deplore the lack of British
visitors and to criticise the political direction of their
own country. It’s difficult to know how much import-
ance to attach to these casual discussions ; my wan-
derings were confined to a tourist region in Northern
Italy, where obviously the lamentable state of the
tourist industry is keenly felt. In one small town,
familiar to British visitors, in mid-June there were three
guests in one hotel and one in the other. In another
tourist centre a far-famed hostelry, capable of accom-
modating 250 people, had but 20 guests, and similar
conditions prevailed elsewhere.
Wherever I went I was struck by the number of
children to be seen, compared with the small families
in most democratic countries. In the last 30 years
the population of Italy has increased by nearly ten
millions ; if the present rate of progress continues, in
a very few years there will be more Italians in Europe
than Britons. It is no wonder that the Italian Govern-
ment, relying on so much man-power, looks forward
to the future with confidence.
One Sunday morning I went to High Mass,
oppressed by reading the Italian papers. The church
was full to overflowing, and the congregation listened
with rapt attention to the eloquent sermon, which had
for its text the subject of Divine Love. The preacher,
aflame with his theme, kept on reiterating that it was
the world, the whole world, without barriers of
nationality, that Christ died for; that hate achieved
nothing, that love alone could do the impossible and
unite mankind. As I left Italy I kept pondering on this
message of hope. Surely there must be hundreds of
thousands* of Italians who still give their allegiance
to ideals such as these.
J. Bull in China.
[Compare with “Scrutator’s” article, here condensed
from London “Sunday Times,” last week’s “S. M.
Herald” leader (8/8/’39) advocating a “long-range
blockade of Japan” and railing at Mr.
Menzies for not being of the same idiotic
mind. While “Granny” could not be
more belligerent if Australia were the
best-armed country in the world, the
“S.T.” writer has enough sense to realise
that, bad as the provocation has been,
J. Bull, strong as he is now, must do his
utmost to avoid being embroiled in wars
in several parts of the world at once.]
That Britain should assist Japan in
her campaign in China would be a viola-
tion of neutral duty, but equally it would
be a violation to let sympathies with
China color interpretation of rights as
against Japan. However strong feelings
may be about the injustice of Japan’s
war, the strictest neutrality is still incum-
bent on Britain unless Britain is prepared
to take the Chinese side.
If peace were assured in Europe,
Japan would hardly have raised the issue
of Tientsin in its present form, and might
indeed never have gone to war with
China. But the main effort of diplomacy
should be to unhitch Tientsin from any
more direct connection with our Euro-
pean problems. We shall be wise to take
note of the warning Tientsin gives us that if we enlarge
our responsibilities unduly we may be forced to neglect
interests that are far more vital to us.
We should, in the first instance, so present our
case to Japan as not to force her into an alliance
with Germany which she has so far declined. One
way to do that is to confine interest in China to our
commercial and trading rights. We may deplore the
methods of Japan in China, and think them as unwise
in her own interests as they are cruel to China. But
it is fair, after all, to remember that Japan has interests
in China of a kind that no other country has.
If any nation seemed marked out as the natural
protector of China, guardian and helper in her
troubles, it was surely Japan. Moreover, it is not
generally realised how small a country Japan is, and
how great is the pressure of her population. Her
area is less than that of the single State of Texas:
her population is now nearly one hundred millions,
has doubled in the last 60 years, and is increasing at
the rate of nearly a million a year. She is not a
country of great natural resources, and if she is to main-
tain herself it can only be by the expansion of her
trade and industries. The density of her population
is four times as great as England’s and twice as great
as Belgium’s. She has no great colonial empire for
her expanding population. It is not only natural that
she should look to China for her future ; it is, on
the whole, in the interests of other Powers that she
should look there rather than anywhere else.
It is generally assumed that the establishment of
Chinese provincial administrations friendly to Japan
would inevitably mean the destruction of British
trade, but some statistics do not support that view.
After 1932, when the Manchukuo Administration was
set up, British exports to the province increased from
eight million yen to 11 million yen in 1937. In the
same period American exports to Manchukuo ex-
panded from 20 million to over 57 million yen. On
the other hand, British exports into the rest of China,
which in 1906 amounted to 43 million pounds, had
dwindled to 13 millions in 1936 before the war began,
and the exports from the British Empire into Japan
in the same period rose from 17 millions to 49 millions.
By far the most important factor in the encourage-
ment of trade is the establishment of .settled peace.
In the defence of our commercial rights we should
concentrate on the policy summed up in the phrase,
“the open door.” That means equal commercial
opportunity for the enterprise of all nations. We
should resist, by every means in our power, any
unfair preference that political change might give
to the trade of the nation; but we should also resign
all thought of special political advantages or any
commercial preference that they might entail.
That would be a continuance of our old com-
mercial policy in China, under which we sought for
no selfish commercial advantage that we were not
prepared to share with the enterprise of every other
nation. It is a policy in which we can count on the
wholehearted co-operation of the United States. To
concentrate on it should be the main objective.
{“Times” comment .) I .
The very frank explanations of the Japanese press,
which is under war-time control, and of the Japanese
soldiers, who are under no particular control when
British subjects, and interests are concerned, leave
little room for doubt as to the programme of the
Japanese army —persuading the British Government
by negotiation if possible to alter their policy in
China and to co-operate at least passively with Japan
in her invasion of that country.
If negotiation fails, then other forms of pressure,
such as anti-British riots by obedient Chinese mobs,
may be organised. In that case there would be no point
in keeping British citizens in danger at Tientsin, but
there would be every reason to give the Chinese
Republic the full benefit of a very friendly neutrality.
The Japanese demand for such concessions can-
not succeed if the British Government stands by its
refusal to become the passive accomplice of the
Japanese militarists. It has neither the desire for such
an adventure nor the authority of the nations that have
signed the Nine-Power Pact, and have kept their pledge
“to respect the sovereignty, the independence, and the
territorial and administrative integrity of China.”
Action Against the I.R.A.
[Except for a few minor repetitions and non-
essentials, this is the complete speech made by the
Elome Secretary, Sir Samuel Hoare, in introducing the
Prevention of Violence Bill (directed against the 1.R.A.)
in the House of Commons The speech is here repro-
duced from . the “Times” Parliamentary reports.]
The first move in the terrorist attempts was in
January, when the Foreign Secretary received an
“Daily Herald,” London.
JAPAN’S “OPEN DOOR” POLICY IN CHINA.
ultimatum from the so-called Irish Republican Army
demanding an instant withdrawal of British troops
from Northern Ireland, giving a limit of four
days for their departure, and threatening reprisals if
the ultimatum was not accepted.
Shortly after this ultimatum there began these
terrorist attempts, and among the documents dis-
covered by the police in their searches was one known
as Plan S. It was a very remarkable document —not
the kind of irresponsible, melodramatic document that
one sometimes discovered in these police searches, but
a very carefully worked out staff plan, setting out in
detail the way in which an extensive campaign of
sabotage could be successfully carried out against
England. It ran into many thousands of words, dealt
with practically every aspect of the problem, the
moment to strike. Here was a sentence from Part 3
of the plan:
It must be shown that this is the time to strike, that
England has never been in so critical a condition, barred
as she is by political tradition from adopting the only
measures that would ensure her strength—namely,
totalitarian methods.
A diagram set out in detail the various methods
of sabotage, and there was a chapter dealing with the
methods of direct action and setting out that a
legitimate but probably very inaccessible aim could be
the destruction or sabotaging of aeroplane factories
and stores, munition factories and stores, etc. These
would probably be so well guarded that success would be
chancy.
The third target, and this would probably be the most
important, because the most effective, the most unequi-
vocal, and the most justifiable, is the public services.
It went on to deal with a number of other
categories, and the chapter ended with this paragraph :
The last group to be considered might prove to be
an important one, especially if adopted as punitive
action for incitement to repressive violence against our
campaign, or merely for the spreading of injurious
propaganda about the revolutionaries and Ireland gener-
ally. This is the large-circulation English press.
In a series of paragraphs dealing with the essential
services there was one dealing with water, not indeed
giving any instruction for the pollution of water sup-
plies, but giving instruction for damage to water sup-
plies. There was a paragraph about drainage giving
instructions as to how a drainage system could be
effectively interfered with; a paragraph about fire
brigades, pointing to the advantages of destroying
supplies of hose.
Perhaps the most remarkable of any of the para-
graphs in the document was a very long one dealing
with the electricity supply, giving a number of details
about key points, about the system of the grid, point-
ing to a number of ways in which these essential ser-
Vlc ;f‘ s t( L! he comir *iinity might be brought to a stand-
s . lh er e was a paragraph about attempts
within Government offices. Lastly, there was a long
paragraph dealing with the transport system, and deal-
ing also with key industries in some detail, pointing,
°r mstance, to the importance of magneto factories
and so on.
The sinister fact about the document, which, it
would be seen, was based on accurate information,
was that the numerous attempts that had been made
since last January had one and all been based on this
or that instruction given in the document.
Since January there have been no fewer than 127
terrorist outrages, 57 in London and 70 in the prov-
inces. So far there has been a very limited loss of life •
indeed, in the document from which I quoted and
other documents that have come into our hands, it
is clear that in the early chapter of the campaign the
attempt was intended against property and not against
human life. Nevertheless, during the period of these
outrages one man was killed in Manchester, one man
lost his eye in Piccadilly the other day and 55 persons
have been seriously, or less seriously, injured. These
outrages were within an inch of inflicting very serious
damage upon the community.
The outrages in Piccadilly on June 24 show us
the miracle that has taken place in avoiding the loss
of human lives. Let me say this of the police, not
only in London, but in the great cities of the prov-
inces where outrages have also taken place: they
could not have behaved more efficiently or more
courageously. They have brought a large number of
these tenorists to trial. No fewer than 66 terrorists
have been convicted. In addition, the police have
seized 1500 sticks of gelignite, 1000 detonators, two
tons of potassium chlorate and oxide of.iron, seven
gallons of sulphuric acid, and 4cwt. of aluminium
powder, enough to cause millions of pounds worth of
damage, and, what is more important than damage
to property, the loss of at least 1000 men and women.
“The further powers provided by the bill are
necessary because the terrorists are now becoming
more astute. They are careful not to be caught with
arms and explosives upon them. They
move quickly from place to place. They
are here to-day and gone to-morrow. As
a rule, they leave no written instructions,
but give their orders by word of mouth.
Time after time the police have been
baulked by the absence of power to
search and control suspects whom they
were convinced were terrorists.
“Experience has shown that further
powers are essential if grave loss of life
and property is to be avoided. But there
are two other reasons why we need these
further powers. Several cases have been
brought to our notice to show that the
campaign henceforth is to be much more
ruthless and is not to take account of
human life. Also, and perhaps this is the
most important reason why these powers
are urgently required, we have in our
possession reliable information that the
campaign is being closely watched and
actively stimulated by foreign organisa-
tions. I would ask the House not to press
me for details. It would not be in the
public interest to divulge them, but
members must accept my assurance that these are
not unchecked suspicions founded upon gossip, but
definite conclusions reached upon reliable data.
“Suppose that in August or September we weie
faced with war or an emergency of some kind, the
danger of serious sabotage would be immeasurably in-
creased by these terrorist outrages. They were within
an inch of blowing up Hammersmith Bridge ; they
were within an inch of blowing up Southwark power
station ; they were within an inch of blowing up the
aqueduct of the North Circular-road ; they have care-
fully surveyed the more important bridges, railway
works, munition dumps, war factories and aerodromes.
They have been engaged upon a plan to blow up the
Houses of Parliament.
“If a series of outrages such as these took place m
the critical days of an emergency, how serious it would
be for the country. I am certain that the country
approves and demands more drastic action against the
plotters and perpetrators of these crimes against the
community. The Government’s proposals are doubly
urgent both on the ground of order and security and
on the ground of even graver risk in a war
emergency.”
Sources of Funds
[This item from the “Sunday Dispatch” has interest
in view of Sir Samuel Hoare’s references to “foreign
intrigue.”]
In an I.R.A. document headed “Issued from
Dublin by the Irish Republican Army, acting on be-
half of the Government of the Republic of Ireland.
Irish Bulletin (English edition) No. 2,” and intended
for circulation through secret channels to I.R.A.
members in Britain, a list of all I.R.A. outrages this
year states that nearly 100 members have been cap-
tured and three killed “through explosions.”
Denying the charge made, among others, by Mr.
De Valera that German money has financed the
campaign, the bulletin states: “Not one penny has
been received from any country outside Ireland, with
the exception of America and England.”
“Our secret intelligence has informed us exactly
of the evidence at Mr. De Valera’s disposal,” it is
added. “It is merely the inspection by his Govern-
ment’s secret agents of the bank account of one of the
leading Germans in this country which over a period
has shown a quite inappreciable expenditure over and
above what that individual might be expected to re-
quire for his own needs. The amount in question,


Wishful Thinking.
From London “Evening Standard”: —
Don't be deluded by those who tell you
that Germany is on the brink of economic
collapse. According to these prophets she. has
been hovering on this precipice for the past
five years.
In fact, German trade figures show a
large increase. Imports are. heavier, exports
heavier still. They went up in May by
£4,000,000—a rise of 11 per cent, on the
figures for April.
The story that Germany is heading for
financial catastrophe, is largely prompted by
wishful thinking.
even had it been handed over to the I.R.A. —which it
never has been —would be an absolutely negligible
amount compared with the demands on the I.R.A.’s
treasury made by its rapidly expanding organisation.”
In acknowledging the help of the Clan Na Gael
of America “both in money and material,” the
bulletin adds that without this “we should hardly
have been able to embark upon our present policy,
and certainly should not have been able to sustain
it.”
With England’s Fascists.
[London “Picture Post,” publishing this account of
a meeting of British Fascists, adds in a footnote:
“ ‘Picture Post’ has no connection with any
political party. It believes in publishing the facts
about all parties.”
Most of the “Post” questionnaire has been cut, as of
minor importance. Ihe report of the meeting is given
more fully.]
When we agreed to report the Fascist meeting at
Earl's Court on July 16, we wrote to the British
Union explaining that we wished to present a com-
pletely unbiased report, and for this reason we put
questions which the Union’s Director-General has
answered:
Question: What is your membership? Answer:
On the foundation of our movement it was stated
that the total number of our membership would never
be published. We have always adhered to this.
(Q.) What pledges or undertakings are given by
your members on joining? (A.) The following under-
taking is given by members on joining: “I, the under-
signed, being a British citizen, loyal to King and
Empire, hereby enrol as a member of the British
Union. I accept the principles and constitution of the
British Union and will be loyal to its leadership.”
(Q.) Do your members go through any form of
physical training or drilling? (A.) Drilling is foi-
bidden. It is prohibited by the Public
Order Act. Our members are encouraged
to keep fit by all forms of athletics.
(Q.) How does the British Union
contemplate getting into power? (A.)
As stated in our constitution and rules,
“The object of the British Union is to
win power by vote of the people at a
general election.”
(Q.) What are the contacts between
the British Union and the National
Socialist party of Germany and the
Fascist party of Italy? (A.) Nil. We are
a national and not an international move-
ment and, therefore, are not organised in
any international manner. Our only in-
terest in foreign statesmen or foreign
movements is to preserve friendship in
order to establish peace.
(Q.) Does your party support the
foreign as well as the internal policy of
Germany and Italy? (A.) The sugges-
tion that our movement, either in internal
or foreign policy, has any foreign model
is completely untrue.
A reporter who is not a member of
any political party was sent to cover the
meeting. This is his story:
This was the British Union’s first big
indoor meeting in London for over three
years. A blue-badged steward told me
that they budgeted for an audience
of 30,000 people, that everyone had to pay for tickets.
The “Daily Mirror” and the “Daily Express” reported
next day that a few minutes after the meeting had
begun officials shouted “There are plenty of free
seats,” and the crowds rushed in. The “News-
Chronicle” said there were 20,000 people present. The
“Daily Mirror” said “about 10,000 convinced Black-
shirts.” The “Times” said the hall, estimated to hold
30,000, was “fairly well-filled.”
The crowds were already flooding into their
places at six-thirty. I should say that they seemed
to be a younger than average crowd and —perhaps
because they were wearing Sunday suits —better
dressed. In the first 15 rows (where the seats cost
10s. 6d.) there were a few of the fashion-plate type
of clubman. The proportion of men to women seemed
to be about two to one. I was told that about 5000
stewards were on hand.
By ten minutes past seven most of the crowd
were in their seats and community singing started.
The hall was arranged on a red, white and blue color
scheme with large slogans such as “Britons Fight for
Britain Only” and “Unite for Peace and People.” At
the front of the hall was a flight of white cloth-
covered steps, stretching from one side to the other,
and in the middle was a large pulpit about 20ft. high
from w'hich Sir Oswald Mosley was to speak.
At seven-forty, action began. First came the
Fascist drum-and-fife band. This was followed in
succession by a man carrying a grimy Union Jack
(used at the earliest meetings), men (rather poorly
dressed) carrying red, white and blue Fascist banners,
drummer girls in blue and grey (the girls on the out-
side edge being the more attractive), men again in
street clothes carrying black and yellow Fascist
banners, men carrying Fascist pennants, and, finally,
a man carrying a forked ecclesiastical-looking pennant.
After a fanfare, Mosley walked the length of the
hall. He was dressed in a grey flannel suit. As he
passed, you noted the deep-set eyes, twinkling smile,
short white teeth, thick neck, well-pomaded black hair.
The audience cheered and most saluted.
“Fellow-Britons,” said Mosley after he had
mounted the rostrum, “to-night the British people are
here.” The big meeting was on.
Most of the time I sat next to Mr. and Mrs.
B ; B is a civil engineer. “Don’t mention
my name, please,” he asked. It was the first Fascist
meeting he had been to. He had paid ten shillings for
his seats and had come up from Carshalton.
“I have a great belief in Fascist things,” he said.
“Is there much Communism in Carshalton?” I
asked.
“No,” he said, “but there is an invasion of Jewish
refugees and cut-price shops there. Terrible it is.”
But the Leader was speaking. Mosley’s voice,
loud and compelling, gradually ascended the register
as each of his sentences developed, rather in the
manner of a car speeding up to the next gear-change.
His chief gesture is a slow forward movement of the
hand as of one who seeks to score a double-twenty on
the dart board. His voice had its occasional hoarse
breaks, but none of the rasp of Hitler’s ; his hoarser
passages were bayed rather than shouted.
In most cases the applause that he got appeared
entirely genuine, though once or twice it started before
most of the audience could have seen the point of the
remark he was about to make.
Mosley’s arguments were clearly put. He attacked
the press because it ignored him. “According to the
press, you don’t exist at all,” he told his audience. He
attacked the present political system because “it
divides the nation on issues that don’t exist at all” and
the financiers because, he said, they cqntrol both the
press and Parliament. He would like to make the
British Empire entirely self-sufficient. He would like
to give Hitler a free hand in Eastern Europe (“If any-
one can keep order there, good luck to them”), return
the Mandated Territories and call a disarmament con-
ference.
He also referred to the Jewish forces working heie
“to bring about a world war.” At this point Mr. B
applauded so vigorously that his hat fell to the ground.
All through the evening the anti-Jewish outbursts
were the lines that got the big applause.
Mosley ended his speech with a phrase bringing
in “This vow which we have made for to-night . . .
“Daily Express London.
THE BEGGAR.
“Last month Mars was closer to earth than it had been since 1924,
MISS PLANET: “Better not get too near, Mars. The fellows quite mad."
for to-morrow . . . for ever.” It sounded impressive,
even if you were not quite sure what vow you had
taken. Then came the anthem “Britain Awake and
the procession, the band, the blue and grey girls, the
men with the banners and the pennant.
Finally the Leader himself followed them and
went through a door. The big meeting was over.
Owed to J. Bull.
(From London “Daily Express.”)
Guatemala, announcing that she isn’t going to
pay her debts running back to 1895, brings the total
of defaulting countries where Britain has investments
to ten They are: Brazil, Greece, Paraguay, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Russia and Salvador.
And, as makeweight, Mississippi.
The £3400 million Britain has invested abroad m
foreign stocks was valued at £620 million last March
—so we have apparently dropped nearly £3OOO mil-
lion down the foreign drain. -.
Here are the details of the distribution of British
capital invested outside the United Kingdom at par:
K Millions
of £s.
The Em ire 2000
The World (exclusive of Europe and the Empire) .. 1300
Europe ,
The importance of the Empire stands out. Also
the importance of British investments in the two
Americas. European investments are a fleabite in
comparison. . ,
The details of the three figures given above are
the following: —■
THE EMPIRE.
Millions of £s.
Australia ••
SS* :: : : :: :: ' • ■
South Africa
New Zealand .. ■ ■ t ■ •
Malaya •• 59
East Africa • ■ • • • ■ • • • •
West Africa
The rest is distributed over a large number ot
colonial possessions.
THE WORLD.
Millions of £s.
United States 22 jj
Argentina • •
Chile 29
Mexico .. • •
Cuba
Other American States
China u
The rest is distributed ov*r a numbei ot le-s
important investments.
EUROPE.
Millions of £s.
Germany (with annexed countries) . . •. 60
France .. .. .. •• •• 30
Greece .. .. .. .. . • • •
Hungary .. .. .. .. • • 18
Belgium . . .. .. .. . - • • 12
Rumania .. .. .. .. .. • • 14
Turkey (with new credits) .. • ■ • ■ 25
Spain .. .. .. .. • ■ ■ • 30
Holland 12
Sweden .. .. .. . • • • ■ • 10
Norway .. .. .. . • • • 10
Denmark .. .. .. • • • • 8
Italy .. .. .. • • • • • • 3
The rest of the total is distributed among othei
European countries. The Russian investment is written
off as nought. Poland, in view of the present negotia-
tions, is a question-mark.
All the figures are given in round numbers and
with a tendency to underestimation. Even then some
of them —for example, that given for China are over-
estimated in view of the political losses.
Glamor Leaves the Highlands.
[This debunking of popular romantic notions about
the Highlands of Scotland, with a realistic depiction
of present-day conditions there, is condensed from a
London “Daily Express” article by Alastair Macneill
Weir.]
There are two common ideas about the High-
lands. One pictures the Highlands as the most
romantic district in the British Isles. The other is the
idea of the Highlands as the land where the natives
scorn the conventional camouflage of the trouser, pre
ferring the naked truth of the kilt, wherd bagpipes
are an instrument of aggression, and the
staple diet is whisky and haggis. Both
these beliefs are as false as the one that
a deer forest is covered with trees.
Now the Highlands’ glamor is wear-
ing thin, and such incidents as Lady
Astor’s offer to give David Kirkwood a
farm there for nothing, made in the
House of Commons, give the public an
occasional glimpse of what is really hap-
pening in the Highlands, and the desola-
tion and decay that are found there.
Unemployment in the Highlands is
50 per cent, worse than in the officially
recognised “special areas.” The worst
single county is Ross and Cromarty
[represented in the House of Commons
by Mr. Malcolm MacDonald!] with 49.5
per cent, of the insured population out
of work.
Our countryside is littered with evi-
dence of our incredible history. We have
about the best collection of historic
castles, but an even better collection of
rural slums. We make the finest whisky
in the world, but many of our distilleries
are shut down. Our granite and slate
quarries produce the best articles in
Britain, but the paving-stones and slates
remain in the north. Our herring are the
finest in the world, yet our fishing fleet
steadily gets smaller.
Some of our lairds are among the richest people
in the world, but last year Oban gave more than
10,000 free meals to its necessitous children. A survey
of 233 houses was made in the parish of Tarbat, Ross-
shire. Thirty-three had an inside water supply, and
only eight had baths. In just under half the houses
the housewife had to carry all the water used for
cooking and cleaning from 25 yards to more than
half a mile.
The handicaps of farming are not made any less
by the transport charges. In the islands freight charges
in the steamers are a tax on existence. It costs more
to send a ton of goods from Glasgow to the Inner
Hebrides than to Australia or the Argentine.
Agriculture suffers severe handicaps from the
ravages of deer and bracken. They are like a disease
that is slowly spreading over the land. Deer forests
sterilise 5000 square miles of the Highlands, and it is
a saying that bracken covers the rest.
At a time when Britain is lending £100,000,000
to foreign allies, £5,000,000 would ensure the defence
of its food supply and employment of the great
natural resources of the Highlands on remunerative
production. The Highlands could be one of the main
sources of home-produced food. The huge reserves
of hydro-electric power which could be developed
would be an emergency supply beyond the reach of
bombers. By setting up evacuation holiday camps and
increasing accommodation in the Highlands local in-
dustries would benefit, and in the event of war children
could be sent to the safest place in Britain.


SPORTING NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLESS!
Under the Whip
Ajax was taken out of both Cups on
Thursday. The previous day bookmakers
were offering 66 to 1 Ajax and Defaulter
for the two Cups, but some of them
handsomely admit that not many mugs
were caught. The owners intimate that
their chestnut, whom future turf his-
torians will class as a cottonwool cham-
pion, will be kept for weight-for-age
races because big weights might jeopar-
dise his stud career. Carbine and Spear-
felt carried bigger weights than those
imposed on Ajax over longer distances
than he has been asked to travel, and it
didn’t hurt them a bit. In fact, Carbine
imparted his stamina to generation after
generation of his descendants, and dur-
ing the past twelvemonth they have been
racing with success in at least three con-
tinents.
* * * *
With Giant Killer scratched by Burke
because he was a bit off-color, Mustella
was the logical favorite for the Austra-
lian Steeplechase at Caulfield, especially
as the going was heavy ; and the Lanius
gelding opened at 3 to 1 in a field of 10.
For some reason or other the price
drifted to fives. Deckard, who had to
give Mustella 171 b., came to 11 to 4, Last
End and National Debt, the South Aus-
tralian hopes, being the same odds as
Mustella. South Australia had a poor
run for its money; Last End lost his
rider at the third fence and National
Debt unseated his on the flat when they
had gone a mile or so.
The outsider of the party was Musical
David, 50 to 1. There was no encourage-
ment to back him, for, although he ran
second to old Wakerife at Warrnambool
m May, his recent racing had been
done on the flat, and it was rather in-
glorious. But Musical David nearly
brought off a surprise.
Brinsley took him to the front and
made the pace a cracker. Jumping beau-
tifully, the David gelding set up a tre-
mendous lead, and it looked as if he
would never be caught. Even when three
miles of the long journey had been
traversed, the Ring was telling itself he
was sure to give them a “skinner” if he
stood up. From that point, however,
Mustella came into the picture rapidly.
Driven along for all both were worth by
Mclnnes, he was in striking distance as
they entered the straight, and a grand
finish saw Mustella beat Musical David
by 2\ lengths, Deckard being third an-
other 3jr lengths away.
The favorite ran an excellent race, but
weight, going and pace—the race was run
in 6.58, only 2} seconds worse than
Tongalla's fastest time—were too much
tor him. Considering his severe exer-
tions, Musical David finished wonder-
-1 ully well. Only on the Friday was it de-
cided that he should run in the Australian
instead of the Knowsley Steeplechase.
Mclnnes made it two for Jerry
Moloney and Warrnambool by riding
Cape Lilock to victory in the Knowsley.
There were many Warrnambool people
present, and they gave trainer, jockey and
horses a great reception. Cape Lilock
was second favorite at 7 to 2, Jolly Boy
being favorite at threes. Again the crowd
saw a good finish, old Fulham (8 to 1)
making a race of it with the second leg
of the Moloney double. Nimshi (33 to 1)
was third.
Lou Robertson has a pretty good three-
year-old in Alarm, a chestnut colt by
Marconigram-Swiftspear. Unthought of
by the generality of punters because his
two-year-old form was poor, Alarm was
backed from a long price to sevens, and
the others couldn’t get near him at the
finish of a mile, run in 1.44£, though
Grand Patrol and the favorite, Hectare,
did their utmost.
The Malakoff Stakes was a good bet-
ting race, 5 to 1 the field being called. It
was unexpectedly easy for Pibroch
(Windbag-North Star), who beat Pan-
toon (10 to 1) by a couple of lengths,
Beaustone (14 to 1) being third. Ply-
mouth Hoe, Montaza and Panax were
all preferred by punters to Pibroch. He
had run third to Rivette and Cackle in
the Balaclava Stakes on the previous
Saturday, giving Rivette a pound.
Carpentier furnished the surprise of the
day—in the St. Aubin Welter. Backers
couldn’t have him on his second-last,
at 25 to 1, in the Mornington Welter
seven days before, and the same price
could be got, although the finishing quote
was returned at 20 to 1. Eric Connolly
was confident of Eligible, that seldom-
raced animal being backed for a parcel
at fours and better, but Eligible could
not pace it with Carpentier in the run
home, though the margin was only a
“long” neck. Diablote was a poor third.
Sticky as the track was, the Gay Lothario
stallion ran the mile in 1.42{, so he must
be a good miler, and a longer distance
may be within his compass.
* * * *
A very unlucky Sydney mare is Miss
Linbul. She is a smart miler, but run-
ning second seems to have become a
habit with her. She filled that position
in the second race that Mosaic won last
season, a Novice Handicap at Rand-
wick ; she was second to Rex in the
Welter Handicap at Warwick Farm on
August 7, and second to Sign On in the
Apprentices’ Trial at Ascot (Sydney) two
days later. Favorite at Ascot, she was
slow to get going, and though she finished
fast she was too late to catch Sign On,
who is a five-year-old gelding by 'Bull-
head-Fern Bee Bee.
* * * *
The Rosebery club had a crowd of
10,000-odd at its Sydney course on Satur-
day. Early-spring weather brought a lot
of people out, and the appearance of a
number of high-class horses in exhibi-
tion gallops was another attraction. But
those who punted on favorites paid dearly
for their pleasure, five going under.
Winning form at Ascot was neglected
by many, to their sorrow. Sign On and
Grand Boy, who carried penalties for
successes on the Wednesday, won their
divisions of the Lakes Welter in capital
style. Sign On was allowed to go out at
10 to 1; hitting the front three furlongs
from home, he held off Might Not and
Perimond at the finish. The favorite,
Parlance, was fourth. He was slightly
sore when doing his preliminary. Sign
On is to be put aside for the summer
racing at Randwick. The Villiers may be
his mission.
Grand Boy, who is owned and trained
at Mudgee, opened at twos in the second
division, eased to fours and came to
threes. The big chestnut got a break on
the field, and scored with a lot in hand.
Young Crusader, looking surprisingly
well considering all the racing he has had,
was second and Bombala third. Glori-
ous, a maiden performer owned by an
Inverell man, had good backing, but was
outclassed.
Grand Boy has 7.5 in the Epsom. If
he gets to the front early he will take
some running down.
Four firsts and two thirds in nine starts
was Tel Asur’s record as a two-year-old,
and his first race as a three-year-old
brought another success. Though he
wore his winter coat and looked big, he
was favorite, at twos, for the first divi-
sion of the Cape Solander Handicap, and
didn’t have to be overexerted to beat
Hole in One and Valmiki. Athboy made
the running, and that suited Tel Asur,
who came away in the straight. Trained
by Jimmy Munro, the Marconigram-
Intuition gelding is in the Epsom with
7.7, the Caulfield Cup with 7.6 and the
Melbourne Cup with 7.2, and Munro
says he’ll win one of them.
Dashing Cavalier also gave good
promise as a two-year-old. By Constant
Son-Dashing, he has grown into a hand-
some fellow who will not be troubled by
a bit of weight, and F. W. Hughes has
hopes that he will train on into a Derby
colt. Starting at sevens, he won the
second division easily in time (1.14 i)
faster by half a second than Tel Asur
made. Her succession of three wins not-
withstanding, Castalia was beaten into
third place; she stopped quickly in the
long straight. Padua was a 5-to-4 favor-
ite ; he nearly hit the outside fence at
the home turn, and, after losing lengths,
ran on gamely, and was second, two
lengths behind Dashing Cavalier.
Katanga, a big son of The Buzzard, came
home very strongly in fourth position.
When Fernclod hits the front and is
allowed to make his own running, he
stays fairly well. In the Sir Joseph Banks
Handicap O’Sullivan rode him hard for
two furlongs, slowed down the field, and
stole the race at the home turn. Actually
Own Folk (6 to 4) caught and passed him
near the judge’s box, but when Own Folk
had apparently done his job he shifted
his head, and that shift cost him the
race ; Fernclod beat him by half a head.
Lappin, Own Folk’s rider, was blamed
by the favorite’s backers, for he pal-
pably stopped riding, but he said if he
hadn’t done so Own Folk would have
cannoned into Fernclod. The latter was
at 20 to 1 in a field of seven. Mischief
was third.
O’Sullivan was on another outsider in
the Fourteen-Two —Miss Armidale, 14 to
1 This time he had an easy ride, Miss
Armidale winning by three lengths, and
equalling the course record for 5| fur-
longs—l.l2. In the places were other
outsiders : Belle Ballerina (20 to 1) and
Salbury (12 to 1).
Rathlin (Glenariff-Tibbie) has raced
consistently since he was bought by
former bookmaker Shaw and trainer
Clune. Four to one for the Kingsford
Handicap, he scored with a lot in hand
from Fox Foote (7 to 1) and Light
Dragon (5 to 2), who was kept too far
out of his ground. The favorite, Stalin,
went sourly. Stalins are like that.
* * * • *
Alan Cooper’s hoodoo left him alone
when he bought Micawber. It was
thought for a time that the Tippler
horse’s severe race in the Doomben Cup
might leave ill effects, but they must have
been very brief, if any.
In the Ascot Handicap at the Q.T.C.
meeting on Saturday, Micawber returned
to sprinting, and, making light of his
9.2, he won brilliantly in 1.12}. Second,
beaten two lengths, was The Albatross,
who occupied the same position in the
Doomben Newmarket and in the Flying
Handicap won by Trimmer at the same
meeting. The consistent Bahwing (6 to 1)
was third. Thurles Lad was one of the
unplaced lot.
Substantial as his Brisbane prizes have
been, Micawber has incurred no penalty
for the Epsom or the Cantala Stakes. He
has Bst. at Randwick and 8.2 at Fleming-
ton, and he is familiar with both courses.
He was trained for Saturday’s event by
one Shean and ridden by another.
Seven Fifty (The Buzzard-Stable Girl)
proved the best of the w.f.a. horses in
the National Plate, but his opponents
are not really in the w.f.a. class, though
the "runner-up, Tragopan (The Buzzard-
High Cover), is by no means a bad horse.
• •••<.
Sydney had a representative, Tickle,
in the Winter Handicap, and she beat
everything bar Cannoli (Rivoli-Rose
o’ Canning), who went out at 6 to 1. She
was handicapped to give him 81b. Can-
noli was rushed down to Sydney for the
summer meetings at Randwick; he
shaped well in one race and then lost
his condition. Randwick observers voted
him a decent kind of a horse. The dis-
tance of the Winter Handicap was nine
furlongs, and he is probably better at a
mile and a half.
* * * *
"t hough he had no two-year-olds to
assist his record last season, Heroic was
once more the leading sire—he has
topped the list for seven years running,
a feat which stands alone. His stock
won 100 races and dead-heated in
another, prize-money amounting to
£35,496. The Buzzard was second with
104 wins and £33,523, and Spearfelt
third with 101 y and £24,096. Both are,
of course, descendants of Carbine, and
most of their progeny raced in Queens-
land, where opportunities are limited
compared with those afforded in Vic-
toria and N.S.W., though Brisbane prize-
money is very good. Windbag (87 and
£19,821) was sixth, and Manfred (80 and
£19,597) seventh, so Australian-bred sires
did remarkably well again.
With Heroic out of action, The
Buzzard looks likely to top the list this
season, he has so many good horses
coming on. His owner has received an
offer for him from the U.S.A. The reply
was that no money will buy The
Buzzard.
* * * *
The A.J.C. reports a surplus of
£15,027 for its 1938-39 season, and chair-
man George Main is pleased, for it is
the best for years. The win-and-place
totes, with a reduction to the ss. unit in
the paddock, helped materially, receipts
having been £897,377, compared with
£791,029 in 1937-38, and an extra racing
day (32 altogether) did not account for
the difference. More prize-money at
Warwick Farm is promised, and the
Randwick racing track will have been
regraded when the spring meeting comes
round. Trainers complain bitterly about
the condition of training tracks, and
some of those at Randwick frequently
take their horses to other courses. It is
a grievance that ought to be remedied,
although the club can’t be accused of
skimping at Randwick or the Farm ;
during the year it spent £33,886 on race-
courses and property.
* * * *
The V.R.C. made a profit of £20,847
last season, but alterations and improve-
ments to tracks and buildings took all
that and £7500 more. When drought or
“recession” comes, or both, it is the habit
of Victorians to economise on racing,
and Flemington attendances were down,
and so, of course, were tote receipts ;
and bookmakers’ fees fell again. They
have been falling ever since the machines
were introduced in 1931. Tommies pro-
test that they are overtaxed; some
threaten to migrate to Sydney and others
to give up the game altogether.
In the V.R.C. report there are ap-
preciative references to the work done by
E. L. Baillieu, who, when he died last
month had been treasurer for 11 years
and member of the committee for 24
years, and by J. M. Niall, who was a
committeeman for 21 years. The Golds-
brough Mort man resigned for health
reasons. It was a blow to him, for he
had a great love for racing and an active
interest in the administrative side of it.
The V.R.C. has always been fortunate
in the quality of its committees. Some
of the keenest brains in Victoria have
been placed at its service, and the for-
tunes of the community have been pretty
well reflected in the annual prize-money
distributed.
* * *
Mildura and Feminist are becoming a
popular Epsom-Metrop. double in
Sydney, and it is the double this Page
fancies at the moment. Feminist’s cre-
dentials were mentioned last week, and
Mildura hasn’t been out of a place this
year, except in the Doncaster, won by
his stablemate Gold Rod. At Rand-
wick he won the Bondi Handicap, seven
furlongs, giving Trimmer 111 b. and a
beating, and the Bronte Handicap, de-
feating Micawber. At Warwick Farm he
was second in the Denham Handicap to
Creditor, and in Brisbane he captured
the Q.T.C. Cleveland Handicap and
Moreton Handicap. In the Cleveland
Handicap he carried 111 b. more than his
Epsom weight, Bst. 31b., and ran the
mile in 1.36f —good enough for an
average Epsom. He is a four-year-old
bay stallion by Manfred-Miss Meadows,
and the weight won’t trouble him if his
condition is right.
('Continued on page 32.)
Morley, the one Westralian in the race
for the 10,000 metres crosscountry cham-
pionship of Australia at Hobart, won it,
leading all the way. His time on a heavy
course was 34.17 2-5. The Victorians
retained the teams championship.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Laluma Handicap: Pure Gold;
next, Hectare.
Melrose Steeple: Musical David ;
next, Bully Hayes.
Glenora Handicap: Diaphane ;
n,ext, Pantoon.
Kiata Handicap: Manrico ; next,
Coronation Day.
Argyle Welter: Nightguard ; next,
French Gem.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Kogarah Stakes: Miss Linbul;
next, Sologram.
Carlton Mile: Rex or Rodbor-
ough ; next, Rathlin.
Moorefield Handicap: Rex or
Fox Foote ; next, Laurel G.
Flying Welter: Moaveil; next,
Bodley Head.


SAVE MONEY
ITS
THRIFTY^
TO "-g
NEW
CHAMPIONS
Im,
CHAMPIONS
Bring SMOOTH MOTORING
If your engine is not pulling
smoothly and evenly be sure
to check the spark plugs. Fouled
and worn spark plugs may be
robbing you of the economy
and pleasure of a smooth-
running engine. Install new
Champions for greatest speed
and power, and for the real
economy that only these su-
perior spark plugs can give.
An Empire Product—made in Windsor, Can.
IN VINCIBLP
since
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
18 Improved 1939 Models: 3 to 160 Horsepower. 1,2, 4,
6. 8 and 12 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: 300* Engines always in stock. Five Years
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record for
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they are, size for
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world’s market to-day.
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Established in 1906,
Under the Whip
Cheery Jack is to be spelled for two
months in Victoria and then placed in
the hands of M. T. McGrath. McGrath
has done well with his own jumper, Turf
Boy. As a trainer of gallopers he won
the Australian Cup (1914) with Wallalo,
the Can tala Stakes (1920) with Ethiopian
and the Doncaster (1928) with Simeon’s
Fort. He ought to get the best out of
J. M. C. Forsayth’s timber-topper.
Forsayth is wholly bewildered as to the
Australian Hurdle display of Cheery
Jack. He discounts the theory of kidney
trouble, as the gelding appeared as fit as
a fiddle on the following day, and has
been eating heartily since.
Chatting at Moonee Valley last Wed-
nesday, the sportsman from Vaucluse
said: “I regard Cheery Jack as capable
of winning on Australian Steeplechase
day, but just imagine the outcry if he
did!”
Cackle, who had come into Caulfield
Cup favor in consequence of recent good
form, accepted for the middle-distance
Epping Handicap at Moonee Valley, but
did not start. She is undersized, and 9.2
on a heavy track was deemed too heavy
a burden. In her absence Gay Invader
(Gay Lothario-Heliostar) was made a
5-to-4 favorite. Leading all the way, this
useful chestnut carried 8.13 to easy vic-
tory in advance of Morvren and Mamil-
lius. Last-named put in a remarkable
finishing run after being tailed off.
Gay Invader belongs to the St. Albans
studmasters Raymond and Ranken, who
recently bought the Flemington stables
where Meritor, Carbine, Newhaven and a
host of other equine stars were prepared
by the late W. S. Hickenbotham. Name
of the establishment has been changed
from Coreena to Mersey Lodge. Mersey,
the dam of Carbine, was buried at St.
Albans during the regime of W. R. Wil-
son, who brought her across from Maori-
land.
Newspaperman “S. A. Rawdon” was in
the limelight again as an owner of
jumpers at Moonee Valley. “Rawdon”
nags Tifone and Collier finished first and
second in the Findon Hunt Steeplechase.
Both are “Rawdon”-bred. Tifone started
at 7 to 2, and her companion was half
a point longer. Punters made Charmore
their first choice at 9 to 4, but the Delo-
raine (Tas.) Steeple winner came a
cropper at the second fence.
• ••••«
Tifone, like Deckard, who graduated
in the hunters’ ranks, may soon figure in
open company. Just turned five years
old, she is an exceptionally big mare by
Drake from Ouragan, by Lanius (sire of
Deckard) from Onega. Races won by
Ruach, a brother to Tifone, included the
Adelaide Guineas, A.R.C. Birthday Cup
and S.A.J.C. St. Leger.
Further evidence of the value of hunt-
ing in developing ’chasers was furnished
“Hop out and see if there's anything coming round the corner .”
when Bold Brat (Thrice-Belle Joie)
landed the Woolert Steeple with a lot in
hand. He had been second to Tifone in
the Yarra Glen and Lilydale Hunt Steeple
a week before. Being only a little ’un, he
appreciated the drop of about' 2st. in
weight. Bold Brat is trained by J. M.
Bence, who for many years served as
foreman with the late Justin Curr. Great
jumpers turned out by Curr included
Confederate and Ungala, each of whom
won an Australian Steeple.
* * * *
Sydney was amused when a resort of
Corinthians called the Leagues’ Club
joined in the campaign against s.p. bet-
ting, and associated itself with a depu-
tation to the Minister. A Macquarie-
street politician failed to see the humor
of it and denounced the club in Parlia-
ment, saying that it was a hotbed of the
very parasitism it professed to be anxious
to stonker. There was a long-distance
sequel last week, when four gents some-
what stricken in years were potted for
running an s.p. joint on Leagues’ Club
premises. The police found records of
306 bets. Incidentally, Miller, the
Leagues’ Club secretary, has resigned.
He is also secretary of the Rugby
League, which stages professional
football matches, and a few months
ago it was belatedly discovered that
for one man to be secretary to two
clubs was against “Labor principles” or
something, though when the thing was
put to the vote “Labor principles” went
down. He is to remain secretary of
the Rugby League.
* * * V
For the third year Catalogue has won
the Winter Cup at Riccarton (M.L.). It
is a mile race, and the old fellow carried
8.13 in 1937 —he was “aged” even then
—9.10 in 1938 and 10.3 last week. He
will most probably be sent to Melbourne
to try to win another Cup. He is up
101 b. for his success last year with 8.4;
Bourbon, second then with 7.12, has
131 b. more. Bourbon is reported to be
doing well in Melbourne, but the handi-
capper seems to have taken his measure,
and that of Catalogue as well.
* v r *
“E.R.”: For the eleventh time R. C.
(“Mick”) Medhurst has headed the
jockeys’ list in S.A., with a total of 33
winners. M'edhurst came to Adelaide
from the south-east in 1921, and mainly
through the efforts of trainer Reid com-
menced riding without being apprenticed.
Since his first win in 1921 on Annexit,
Medhurst has ridden 456 winners in and
about Adelaide.
M O. an 4 Raffpr hr
Osborne Still on Top
Black Johnnie Hutchinson has a high
rating among American featherweights.
He has put on weight in Australia, as
nearly all American boxers do (the clas-
sic example was “Cyclone” Thompson,
a lightweight in his own country, who
became a light-heavyweight in Australia),
and when he stepped into the West Mel-
bourne Stadium ring on Wednesday night
to box Bert Osborne Hutchinson went
9.8|-. Osborne gave him 21b. and a beat-
ing.
It was a splendid scrap. So long as
he could stick to boxing proper Hutchin-
son was manifestly superior, having a
decided advantage in reach and being
very accurate with his straight lefts, but
after the first round the Victorian car-
ried the fight to the negro and stung him
with left hooks. Awkwardly clever, he
got under Hutchinson’s leads, and in the
sixth round had the black worried. And
so it went on to the twelfth, with patches
of beautiful boxing by the black and
round after round of relentless fighting
by the white. The twelfth was fought
toe to toe. Osborne had the better of it,
and referee Jack Carroll gave him the
decision. There was not much in it.
lan Ellis’s progress to a championship
was checked by Snowy Thompson, who
stopped him —or rather Carroll did in
the seventh round. Ellis was down six
times and took a fearful hammering
stoically. He weighed s£lb. more than
Thompson, who is a real 10.4 man.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) people can’t un-
derstand why Alan Westbury doesn t get
a fight in Sydney. He has whipped all
the leading Sydney welters, Bennell, Mc-
Laughlin, Purcell and co., in short order,
but the Stadium management seems
blind to his merits. It is recalled bitterly
that Darcy had the same experience until
vision was somehow restored to sight-
less eyes.
Fooibrawl
Wild was the scene at the North Mel-
bourne ground on Saturday when the
cease-fire signal was given. Urged on
by representatives of the “softer ’ sex,
North barrackers clambered over the
fence, aimed mud at the Richmond
Tigers and pursued the umpires. Police
surrounded the field umpire and led him
away ; but one of the boundary men had
to sprint for it, and another wasn’t fast
enough to dodge a boot. Bentley, the
Richmond captain, was a casualty, and
a North player has been carpeted for
kicking him in the back; Forbes, the
North captain, was also reported for lan-
guage. Richmond had won the hard,
rough game by 18.8 to 15.11. .
Carlton has joined “the four,” St.
Kilda having been licked by Essen-
don. The Dons got down to business
early and made a sure thing of it, 18.14
to 13.13. Carlton’s defeat of Hawthorn,
18.16 to 7.20, put it level with Saints on
competition points, and ahead of them
on percentage. So it’s Melbourne, Col-
lingwood, Richmond and Carlton now',
with Carlton to play Richmond next.
Carlton, very consistent of late, swears
it will tame the Tigers.
Melbourne, though it leads from
’Wood on percentages only, has been
playing grand football. Against Geelong
Melbourne collected the day’s best tally—
-22.16 to 13.17. Collingwood’s 16.8 to
10.13 against Fitzroy was not so im-
pressive, but the club’s wonderful record
of premierships is an abiding inspiration
to ’Wood. And the old system rarely
fails.
Footscray has handed on its wooden
spoon at last. ’Scray had its third win
of the season —over “Sowth,” next above
it on the list—and now percentages have
raised it to second-last position. Each
of the 19 goals ’Scray kicked brought
deafening cheers from the faithful —it
was 19.15 to 13.17.
* * * *
“Sturt”: S.A. Football League has had
to decide an odd point. In a hotly-
contested match, the barracking at the
end was so loud that neither central um-
pire nor players could hear the bell when
it was rung by the timekeepers. Play
went on for quite 10 seconds; the losing
side acquired the ball, kicked a goal and
became the winners. The side that had
suffered appealed with some confidence.
But the K.C. at the head of the League
has ruled that the umpire is in supreme
control, the bellringing being only a
signal to him that time is up, and that,
as he did not hear it and stop the play —
although it was bad luck, and a more
effective bell must be got —the result has
to stand.
* * * *
Gordon was beaten on Saturday by
the improving Western Suburbs and re-
duced from first to third on the Sydney
Rugby Union premiership table, one
point below Randwick and Northern
Suburbs. West’s forwards did a grand
job, and turned the ball back to keep
the side attacking. Without the ball
Gordon could do nothing but defend its
line, and that it did in the first half, lead-
ing 3 -nil. But West broke through for
three tries in the second half, and Barnes’s
kicking did the rest: 16-3. West trails
Gordon in fourth place on the table, one
point lower down.
Randwick reached the top again after
a sterling tussle with Drummoyne. The
Reds were in front at 8-6, then ’Wick
at 9-8, Drummoyne again at 13-9, and


Advance Australia
on all-Australian
OLYMPIC
tyres
You do a national service and
secure a personal benefit by fit-
ting Olympic—-the all-Australian
tyres. They give you long ser-
vice and trouble-free motoring,
what you save stays in your own
pocket—what you spend stays in
your own country. Olympic Tyres
are owned and produced by Aus-
tralians, financed with Australian
capital, directed by Australian
executives.
Refit whh Olympics
at join* local dealer
OLYMPIC TYRE
DISTRIBUTORS
PTY. LTD.
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts.
Sydney
Olympic tyres
STAINS ON
FALSE TEETH
GONE!
z:’ m
BEFORE
r
it
It is easy to use
‘Steradent.’ Fill
the cap of the tin
with ‘Steradent’
and pour the pow-
der into a glass
containing suffici-
ent warm water
(not hot) to cover .. -
the dentures. Stir AFTER
well. Put in your dentures and leave them
whde you dress, or overnight. Take them
out and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
then your teeth and plates are clean—
clean where the brush can’t reach. Dull
teeth gleam white again. Plates regain
their natural colour. ‘Steradent’ is guar-
anteed harmless to dental materials. Sold by
all chemists. Price 2/-. Double size 3/6.
You are safe with ‘ Steradent.’ It is highly
recommended by the Dental profession.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LTD.
(Pharmaceutical Dept.), Sydney.
Steradent
deans and sterilizes false teeth
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRAN DA DICE * CO, Ltd., BIRMINGHAM, ENG
PENS
Every point
guaranteed-
FOR BETTER SPIRITS
DRINK DANIEL
CSAWFODDS
FINEST OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
LIONEL BIBBY, famous Rifle and UevoLuer Hhot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Miclc
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice .
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
ĵ
No. 44—COOEY MODEL 39,
.22 calibre, bolt action, single
shot, for short, long or long-rifle.
Walnut stock; safety feature,
20in. barrel. Weight, 41b.
Elevating rear /in/
sight XI/IU/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 2 7in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front
sight; weight, .CO/1«/
about X^/IU/“
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action,
.22 calibre, rim-fire, 27in.
round blued steel barrel;
ladder rear sight, gey /■% /
weight, 4ilb.; X */ IU /“
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 32 —BROWNING
“TROMBONE” HAM-
MERLESS REPEATING
RIFLE, 22in. round steel
barrel; handles 22 short,
long or long-rifle cart-
ridges; screw rear and
open front sights;
length overall, 39in.;
weight over- ... - . -
all, 4ilb.. . . £5/12/6
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE'
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G., top Jever ba
action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke,
rebounding locks, crossbolt, snap fore
end, half-pistol grip, walnut r? 1 c /1<? /
stock xlb/lb/
Carriage Paid.
No. 27 —B.S.A. D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
SHOT GUN, Wildfowling Model, 12G.,
30in. barrels, both choke; nitro-
proof automatic safety chambered for
3in. cartridges; weight, ite\i
31b. XZI/10 /-
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 —FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip, 1/11/
nitro proof; weight, about 71b. * * 1 / 1 1 / *
Carriage Paid.
No. 14A—FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
similar to No. 14, but very high-grade,
with ejector; weight, r»i o/i o /
about 71b 3.16/16/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
’Wick finally 19-13 (five tries to three).
The Randwick back-line is settling down
again to something like an attacking
force. North has had more close calls
than any other team this season, and East,
though it couldn’t manage a try, ran it
to 14-12.
University, Parramatta and Drum-
moyne are all together just below “the
four,” and with two rounds still to be
played any of them may reach the semi-
finals. The Students defeated St. George
24-17, and Manly could give the ’Mattans
only a practice gallop—2l-9.
Barnes has notched his 100 points in
the season for the fifth time since he
began with Western Suburbs as a young-
ster in 1932.
* * * *
“Yreva”: Disqualification by both the
Rugby League and Rugby Union bodies
in Toowoomba was the recent lot of
Vince Bermingham, who played Union
Rugby for Queensland and Australia.
His offence was figuring in Union and
League matches on the same day. A
letter of apology to the R.L., together
with an assurance of loyalty, gained the
Downs farmer reinstatement with that
body; but in his first match after the
reconciliation Bermingham was a party
to a “Donnybrook,” and was suspended
for two playing Saturdays.
* * * *
Running neck-and-neck for the Sydney
Rugby League premiership, Balmain and
St. George staged a slashing game at
headquarters before a crowd of 17,000-
odd. ’Main won 11-10, but if it hadn’t
lapsed into a quarter-hour period of play-
ing the man instead of the ball Saints
might have come out on top. Down
11-4 just after the resumption, Saints
pulled up their socks. Forwards worked
tigerishly, and backs ran strongly
and handled with precision. The black-
and-gold thirteen stood up to the ham-
mering well, and even had time to crash
home a few counter-attacks; one of
them must have yielded three, possibly
five, points only for bad judgment by
Bourke. The Balmain centre actually got
over, but in delaying grounding so as to
plant it between the sticks he was held off
the sward by Smith, the St. George skip-
per, and eventually dropped the ball.
South Sydney ran all over North Syd-
ney to put up the biggest club score of
the season—s 3 to nil. Eastern Suburbs,
though it hoisted a 24-14 victory over
Newtown, failed to reach the semi-finals.
Playing a man short almost throughout.,
Canterburv-Bankstown had no trouble in
pounding Western Suburbs 32-5.
* * * *
In one of the best games of the season
Metters toppled the State League Soccer
premiers, Goodyear, by three goals to
one, and by doing so keeps alive the faint
hope held by Wallsend, in second place
four points away, of overhauling the
leaders. Superiority in passing, capped
by resoluteness at the goal-mouth,
weighed heavily in the stovemen’s favor.
Davidson, deputising for Monagle in the
centre, infused life into the attack. Full-
backs Tennant and Wallace cut swathes
through Goodyear’s slower-moving for-
ward rushes, in which robustness too
often gave place to overstressed finessing.
The tyremakers fought hard, but on the
day Metters was ahead in all departments
except the custodian’s—Conquest gave his
usual sound display.
Granville couldn’t keep up the pace it
set when initial success came with a brace
of goals; St. George, playing steadily,
found the weak spots to finish up with a
4- lead. Wallsend swamped Woonona-
Bulli 8-2 ; Cessnock similarly had mat-
ters all its own way with Newcastle to
win 7-0; Weston trounced Adamstown
5- and Leichhardt defeated Granville-
Ryde 3-1.
Nineteenth Hole
First and second in the qualifying
rounds, Miss Joan Lewis and Miss Bar-
bara Crago were in the same positions
in the final of the Australian women’s
golf championship at Kooyonga (S.A.).
The Victorian girl, who has an unbeaten
record this season, defeated Miss Crago
2 and 1, but Miss Crago’s golf was very
fine. She is only 18. She and Miss
Rankin will represent N.S.W. in the
Australian team to play for the Tasman
Cup beyond the sea of that name next
month ; Miss Lewis will have Miss Ker-
not for a Victorian partner, and Miss
Shepherd (S.A.) makes up the team.
He jp
“Sturt”: Rymill, who had already
beaten the local pros, in the golf cham-
pionship of S.A., has added to this the
amateur title. He won the final from
Ross Sawers, 8 and 7 ; but his real test
had come in the semi-final, where Ack-
land-Horman took him to the 36th. In
the pro. championship, Rufus Stewart
beat Robertson, also 8 and 7 ; Harvey,
holder of the title, had lost to Robertson
in a semi-final.
* * * *
It is so long since an Australian won a
foreign title that John Baillieu’s achieve-
ment is worthy of record. The Mel-
bourne golfer has become champion of
Belgium. King Leopold handed him the
trophy—the King himself was a com-
petitor.
Miscellaneous
American predictions that Australia
would eliminate Cuba from the Davis
Cup without losing a set went close to
being upset when Aguero got to within
a point of snatching the opening set from
Bromwich, who, short of the solid match
practice on which his game thrives,
started raggedly. Australia’s No. 1 man
then woke up and proceeded methodically
to stroke his opponent off the court; it
was 8-6, 6-0, 6-2 at the finish. Quist, just
over a bout of asthma, was more impres-
sive ; within 29 minutes of the initial
rally he was shaking hands with Morales,
after having made a hash of the Cuban
star, 6-0, 6-2, 6-2. Still a bit shaky in
the pins, Adrian wisely eschewed any
net-charging.
In the doubles Quist was again the
strong man, Bromwich’s overhead work
being far from satisfactory. It was, never-
theless, a cakewalk for Australia:
6-1, 6-0, 6-3. Morales and Nodarse were
the defeated pair.
* * * *
Indicative of the absence from Ameri-
can tennis of a world-beating amateur
is the selection of seven men —Riggs,
Parker, Grant, Wood, Mako, McNeill and
Cooke—from whom the final quartet will
be chosen to defend the Davis Cup. Each
player named has repeatedly been beaten
in recent tourneys by either one of his
team mates or by someone comparatively
unknown. Performances in the national
doubles, now in progress, will determine
the combination to face Bromwich-Quist
—assuming what the Yanks take as a
foregone conclusion, that Yugoslavia will
fail to survive the Antipodean onslaught.
Singles will be a toss-up right until the
deadline-even Riggs, the Wimbledon
winner, will have to show improved form
to make the final two. But one thing is
certain—broad smiles will be seen in the
Australian camp if Grant doesn’t appear
on the other side of the net.
* * * *
“1839”: The Sussex County Cricket
Club, the oldest in existence, celebrates
its centenaiy this year. It was formerly
known as Royal Sussex County Cricket
Club, owing to the interest George IV.,
as Prince of Wales, took in cricket in
1791, when he presented land for a
cricket ground to Brighton. Sussex’s first
match with the M.C.C. at Lord’s also
took place in 1839. William Lillywhite,
who played for Sussex, wore on that
occasion black shoes, white trousers, white
shirt, stiff collar, black tie, white braces and
a shiny top-hat—which possibly helped
him to bat right through and achieve
42 not out. Tom Box, another Sussexer,
made the same occasion memorable by
sporting a smart white top-hat.
* * * *
' Had an eightieth birthday in Adelaide,
A. M. Pettinger, who helped the Giffens,
Lyons and Jarvis to put S.A. on the
cricket map half a century back. He has
also in his time played lacrosse and bowls
for S.A.; and he is still an active golfer.
* * * *
“Gooramala”: In 1937 a horse named
Plain Bill belied his name and put up a
world’s record by clearing Bft. 3|in. in
the high jump at the Cairns (Q.) annual
show. This year one Flyaway lived up
to his name by beating it by half an inch.
It has been suggested that the tonic
effect of the Cairns air at this season of
the year is responsible for these remark-
able performances. But a more likely
explanation is the absence of shadows on
the grounds, and the aid to the sight of
the horses that is provided by the dark
background of the Cairns Range which
the hurdle faces. At city shows, where
invariably the high jump is competed for
in the late afternoon, horses have to con-
tend with the tricky effects of grand-
stand shadows falling across the hurdle
or the approach to it, and with the dis-
turbing influence of vast crowds.


OUL 'ry^
j
TMWtolfcli
ĵ
Commencing Monday Next (August 21)
NICK L.CCAS, the Singing Troubadour
and World’s Greatest Guitarist.
NEW OVERSEA VARIETY STARS.
Last Days
'‘HIGHLIGHTS FROM HOLLYWOOD.
ANNA MAY WONG
and Big Company Stars.
Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn—it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
rnrn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD.. Melbourne.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Beggar Student
Carola Hoehn, Bert hold Ebbeck.
There is nothing that is not good about
“The Beggar Student” at Sydney Savoy.
As with most of the other Continental
films that have come to that address, it
excels in “atmosphere”; the actors look
at home in their medieval Polish cos-
tumes, and the settings, whether it’s a
glittering ballroom, a dungeon or the
garden of a noble estate, are attractive
and convincing. As in “La Kermesse
Heroique,” the cameraman has a poet’s
affection for old stone buildings and an
architect’s appreciation of what is charm-
ing or dramatic in alleys and battlements.
The actors live up to their suroundings.
Berthold Ebbeck, the beggar student who
is a duke in disguise, has virile good
looks and a splendid tenor voice, and
Carola Hoehn, who looks not unlike
Winifred Shotter, has both the looks
and the voice to make a success of their
duets. Frank Kampers, a blustering
military governor, and Ida Wust, a
countess looking for rich husbands for
her daughters, are good comics, and
Marika Roekk, the younger daughter
with a tremendous appetite for fooling
and food, is as funny as they make
them. She announces at the beginning
that, in spite of a figure that’s already
on the broad side, she’s going to eat as
much as she wants to, and enough play
is made on her appetite through the film
to make the last "scene, where she fishes
in her purse for a handkerchief to dry
her tears and produces instead a biscuit
which she nibbles as she sobs, a little
gem of comedy.
Some of the Continental films, partly
because of the language difficulties and
the gaps between captions, partly be-
cause the cameras like to linger on build-
ings and landscapes, seem to move a
trifle too slowly, but that criticism
doesn’t apply to “The Beggar Student.
Language is no bar to enjoyment of the
singing, and the humor, because Marika
Roekk and some of the others are genu-
ine comedians, comes out in gesture, ex-
pression and situation without the need
of the captions.
It flows along so cheerfully as comedy
that every time it turns itself into
musical comedy, which is only at odd
intervals, one gets a surprise that seems
to make it all the funnier. The countess
and her two daughters, flurrying to get
dressed for a reception, seem perfectly
normal human beings, and then all of a
sudden they decide to sing their agita-
tion. The governor, outside a dungeon
where the prisoners are singing a mock-
ing song about him, looks very naturally
annoyed ; then, abruptly, he joins in the
chorus.
The plot, dealing with the liberation of
Poland from Saxon domination, might
seem to be propaganda, but —the film
was made by a German firm! The
treatment is purely romantic. The
countess and her daughters are Polish
patriots, and the elder daughter, when
the Saxon governor makes love to her,
slaps his face. Governor, for revenge,
digs the beggar student out of prison, dis-
guises him as a duke and makes him woo
the face-slapper. The wedding of slapper
and pseudo-duke is to be the gov.’s
triumph, but, this being musical comedy,
pseudo-duke was a real duke all the
time ; and while he was making love a
comrade was intriguing with other beggar
students, and after the wedding the
country is freed from the oppressor.
This is all as flimsy as the.usual musi-
comedy fairy tale, yet the quality of
acting and atmosphere make it some-
thing more than a skeleton on which a
few songs are draped. It seems to be
comedy first, and musical by accident.
“East Side of Heaven ”
Joan Blondell, Bing Crosby, Mischa Auer.
With Marjorie Lawrence on stage and
this lightweight comedy on screen, Syd-
ney State’s current programme is enter-
taining enough to necessitate a six-foot
John Hop to keep crowds moving along
the pavement outside.
Though Miss Lawrence is, of course,
the main attraction, the filmic half of the
programme at least fritters away an hour
or so without leaving the slightest trace
of hangover. It’s a willy-nilly sort of
yarn, with Bing figuring as a yawping
telephonist and then as a ditto taxi-
driver ; into his ken floats a sassiety lass
trying to avoid her pa-in-law, find her
husband and leave her babe in safe keep-
ing while so doing. She deposits the
infant in Bing’s taxi to his and to the
later and greater consternation of Mischa,
Bing’s room-mate.
Not exactly a novel or original set-up,
but what Bing and, more particularly,
Mischa and the babe make of it is a
Bing Crosby (with baby) and Mischa Auer wondering which of them is making
that noise in “East Side of Heaven,” at Sydney State.
highly-amusing stretch of Hollywooden
comedy. The babe, featured on the ads.
as “Sandy,” is an uncommonly attractive
infant of some months and one of the
very few screen juveniles who can be
rated as definitely entertaining.
Bing fits these sentimental comedy
roles like a foot in a sock, and Mischa,
probably because he seems not to fit any-
where, is always Mischa (see impression
by Frith). Jerome Cowan furnishes a
neat skit as a columnist; Irene Hervey
as the sassiety wench and Joan Blondeil
as Bing’s trouble add the feminine touch.
“A Girl Must Live.”
George Robey, Margaret Lockwood.
This part of the all-British bill at Syd-
ney Embassy is a quite pleasant stretch
of light comedy, agreeable and amusing
all the way, and in patches hilarious.
The appearance of Robey in it could
have been better timed, with George now
in these parts in person. He hasn’t much
of a role in the film, and he doesn’t make
a great deal of it. He is an elderly patron
of the snappy little London gold-diggers
whose doings are the main interest of
the film. If it was anyone else doing
the part it could be passed as a good sup-
port job ; but anybody who has bellowed
at George’s stage get-up and throaty voice
will be astonished at how little the film-
George induces him to laugh.
There are, however, plenty of laughs
in the piece. It is a sprawling sort of
story in the English comedy manner-
all about chorus girls on the everlasting
hunt after a male specimen with boodle.
Mostly they are ultra-sophisticated lasses,
and most of the laughs come from their
hard-boiled comments and their efforts
to beat one another to the prey. The
track of it all begins to take a direct
route with the arrival of a young peer
who has been out somewhere in the
wilds and hasn’t seen a white woman
for seven years. Two of the chorus
make a dead set for him ; but there’s a
dark horse in the party, in the form of
a lass who bolted from boarding-school
to try a stage career and is masquerading
under an assumed moniker.
Any betting as to who will land the
peer is strictly prohibited under the
N.S.W. Gaming Act.
As is the English way, there is a lot
in the film that has nothing at all to do
with it, but —also in the English way—
it is nevertheless quite bearable. Alto-
gether, the film can be guaranteed to kill
an hour or so painlessly, and tickle the
ribs considerably every now and then.
Much the same can be said of the sup-
port opus —an Edgar Wallace story given
a comedy interpretation by Gordon
Harker.
“Grand Illusion.”
This film, reviewed at length on this
page some months ago, has turned up in
Melbourne at the Savoy, the recondi-
tioned theatre which has set out to show
what Continental film-confectors are
made of.
The Bulletin’s Sydney critic made
the observation that it was unfair to
compare the exceptional film that comes
from Europe with the general run of
Hollywood productions, and this picture
more than confirms him —it is possibly
equal to the very best that come from
Hollywood, though no better than “The
Citadel”; but it is also immeasurably
superior to the two French films that pre-
ceded it at the same showhouse.
The producers have been faced with
the problem of making a story interest-
ing in which women make only an inci-
dental appearance. It requires a more
than ordinary playwright to dispense with
the man-woman conflict. Shakspeare did
it in “Julius Ctesar,” but he had an extra-
ordinary individual to deal with. Some-
body did it in “The Mutiny of the
Bounty,” but Bligh was also not an ordi-
nary individual. The people in “Grand
Illusion” are average human beings, and
the producers have succeeded in creating
a moving drama by having no favorites.
German gaolers and French prisoners
are equally tyrannised over by the same
conception as to how they are to live on
the same continent together. The wai
machine their conceptions have created
oppresses both parties with complete im-
partiality; in fact, the prisoners look
jollier than their gaolers, because they
have their illusion that if they can escape
they will in some way or other attain to
freedom. But when two of them do
escape one of them is immediately con-
fronted with a situation which he can
solve only by either deserting his coun-
try or deserting the German woman who
has befriended him.
The acting of Eric von Stroheim, Jean
Gabin, Pierre Fresnay, Miss Parlo and
the others is so convincingly natural that
you seem to be looking at the actual
events as they are unfolded, and the
leisurely development conveys dreariness
and boredom without making the ob-
server feel bored or dreary. One mistake
the French producers never seem to make
-—they never try to convey the horror of
war by filling the screen with shell ex-
plosions. There is no scene of actual
fighting in “La Grande Illusion,” but the
war’s existence hangs over the film from
start to finish.
"Big Town Czar,” at Sydney Capitol,
is a highly-sentimental sermon with
“Crime-Does-Not-Pay” as its text. Barton
Mac Lane, as boss of the underworld,
takes his young brother into the gangster
firm, sees him moidered by rival gang
and is finally riddled with lead himself,
dying with a supplication to all and sun-
dry to avoid the paths of crime. Holly-
wood has probably made as much money
out of this kind of gangster piffle as
gangsters have made out of the Amurri-
can public.
“Fixer Dugan,” at Sydney Cameo and
Civic, concerns circus publicity gent, and
female lion-tamer who take a pore little
circus orfan under their joint wing. Wel-
fare homes, escaped lions and crooks try-
ing to lift the lady’s lions all culminate
in a fadeout clinch.
“Devil on Wheels,” at Sydney Cameo
and Civic, has Pat O’Brien as tough rac-
ing motorist making sufficient oof to give
his young brother a cahledge education.
Y.b. turns down books and learnin’ for
motor-cars, and fights with his brother
about it until the pair of them are recon-
ciled in time to bag the Indianapolis
championship or something. Double-
barrelled lurv-interest and f.a.q. excite-
ment throughout.
Comedy Harmonists.
The crowds continued to pursue the
Comedy Harmonists at Melbourne Town
Hall last week, and five merry-andrews,
imported ostensibly for radio broadcast-
ing purposes by the A.8.C., continued to
put cap and bells on a vast variety of
songs, anc. and mod., with a fine regard
for rhythm and harmony and a complete
disrespect for tradition.
Their capacity to harmonise is remark-
able ; they could probably harmonise a
collision between a motor-lorry and a
tin shed. One of the disconcerting things
about them is that, whether he likes it or
not, the highbrow listener can’t get some
of their tunes out of his head, such as
“The Umbrella Man,” short of taking a
dose of chloroform. The rest of the popu-
lation doesn’t want to, and encores are
two a penny at the Town Hall at the
moment.
Lord Lurgan f s Recitals.
The young British peer, Baron Lurgan
(he succeeded to the title two years ago,
being previously known as W. G. E.
Brownlow), was scheduled to give his
first public song recital in Sydney yes-
terday.
He has been broadcast in Adelaide and
in Sydney. His voice is a light baritone
of pleasant timbre, and his enunciation
is remarkably clear. His mission to Aus-
tralia, he says, is to make more widely
known the works of contemporary and
bygone British song-composers.
On Sunday night he carolled a bracket
of Roger Quilter’s lyrics—words by
Shakspeare, William Blake and so forth
and very successfully welded high
poesy to expressive music.
Marjorie Lawrence.
Felix Wolfes, Marjorie Lawrence’s ac-
companist, conducted the A.B.C. Orches-
tra at Sydney Town Hall one night last
week for the soprano’s appearance with
orchestral backing. The house was a fair
one, and evinced enough enthusiasm and
appreciation for one twice its size.
The singer came up to all expectations.
Her voice is of the calibre that seems to


Three new floors of
bedrooms, all with
private bathrooms— 24-
hour hot water service
and telephones.
In
Sydney
• • •
Stay
at the
EL I
We NTWq
m
'WW^WWWJjh;
p
y-r
m
m
i:
m
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality.
You are treated with the consideration you would
meet with in your own home. Although close to
business and social centres, the Wentworth is situ-
ated in an elevated position away from trams,
trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms, all with private bath-
rooms—-24-hour hot water service and telephones.
Wentworth Hotel
C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
“fIWATEfi”
the Union Company’s
23-kgot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awstea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. ITB.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
j
call for an adequate instrumental setting,
and she delivered her two great operatic
specialties, Salome’s address to the head
ol John the Baptist, from the Richard
Strauss opera, and Brunnhilde’s immola-
tion scene from “Gotterdammerung,”
with tremendous vitality.
Orchestral fare included Strauss’s
“Death and Transfiguration,” the Good
Friday music from “Parsifal,” Siegfried’s
Journey to the Rhine and a tuneful over-
ture by Pfitzner. Wolfes is a good con-
ductor, and Wagnerians and admirers of
Strauss in his pseudo-Wagnerian manner
had a surfeit of meaty emotion.
A Ban jollity.
It is axiomatic that one bagpipe has
not the cacophonic virulence of two bag-
pipes ; a score of them will make a noise
that sounds very nice when they are
played on a distant mountain-top with
the wind blowing the other way; a few
hundred of them being agitated at once is
a horror at which the imagination reels.
Strangely, the reverse is the case with
the banjo. Played solo, its strumming
would, if put forward by the defence as
the reason for homicide, undoubtedly
bring an acquittal on the ground of
justifiability. A plurality of them is
slightly less unsoothing, while 300, which
was the number in action together at
the Sydrfey Town Hall when the Associ-
ated Banjo Clubs decided to give the
welkin some curry, produces almost a
mellow euphony.
Such an instrument was never in-
tended for the interpretation of works
higher in the musical scale than those of
A 1 Pinkenhammer and Sammy Conk-
stein, so the fare provided was naturally
of the very lightest. Claude Holland, as
M.C., kept the ball rolling, and a host
°f associate artists, including Heather
Kinnaird, Alexia Hart and a tiny but
gifted youngster, Joy King, diversified
the spate of gut-twanging. Altogether a
good time was had by all.
Musical Snacks.
In a desperate endeavor to reconcile
the demands of the Muse with the re-
quirements of Mammon, Melb. City
Council has shuffled the times of its free
midday musical snacks, the first part of
the programme starting at 12.25 and con-
cluding at five to one, the second part
following thereafter. But last week the
crowds continued to flow in and out of
the Town Hall as their affairs elsewhere
dictated, without, however, unduly tread-
ing on the tail of the fine succession of
English compositions through which
Joseph Post, the A.B.C. conductor,
steered his orchestra.
A delectable item was the eighteenth-
century overture, “Love in a Village,”
°* P r * .Arne, and there was excellent
playing in the “St. Paul’s Suite” for strings
ol Gustav Holst. Edouard Lambert was
leader. The “free, gratis, for nothing'
audiences are admirable listeners.
Photo. Exhibition.
“F.S.” on the Victorian Salon show:
The annual exhibition of the Victorian
Certainly the'Coiffeur of the Papuan male .show#
original i ty —- but for something -healjx NEW we
tBUst—as ■ usual— Ioof\ to ' the fetnaI®.
Salon of Photography at Melbourne
Athenaeum contains specimens of the
cameraman’s craft from Burma, China,
Japan, Britain, the Soviet and the Mel-
bourne press.
Without wishing to discount the labors
of the photographic societies, I like best
the work of my colleagues of the press.
The press photographer hasn’t any notion
in his head of producing a work of art.
He is after news, precisely as is his
brother of the pen, and he is prepared to
let Nature dictate her own terms. He
doesn’t think that .he could arrange a
string of cyclists on a board track better
than Nature, so his work has a freshness,
a spontaneity and a quality of surprise
which it would certainly lose if he had
a lot of theories about design and com-
position standing in his way.
In that, he is more in sympathy with
the realistic painter than with the artists
who share with the art photographers
the idea that Nature has to be manipu-
lated in order to produce pleasing pat-
terns of light and shade. Nothing is
more fallacious, except perhaps the
notion that the art photographer learns
the same things about Nature from press-
ing a button that a painter learns from
endeavoring to define relationships of
color, tone and form. He does nothing
of the sort. What he learns is how to
take a photograph. If a man makes a
plaster cast of a human body he does
not learn anything about sculpture; he
learns only something about making
plaster casts. The result may be more
like Nature than nine-tenths of the sculp-
ture about the city and in the National
Gallery ; but it does not represent any
knowledge other than that the cast-maker
has got about making a plaster cast.
The cameraman gives you facts about
Nature which few painters could ; he has
access to subject-matter which is hope-
lessly beyond the painter’s reach, and
some of his photos, look more like
Nature than many of the pictures some
painters paint. But if he took a million
photos., however lifelike the result, he
would not thereby gain the same kind of
knowledge as a Corot or a Constable.
And if he fakes a photo, to look more
like Nature, it will look like Nature only
if he knows what Nature looks like ; and
that is the painter’s job.
Current exhibits largely follow current
trends. In “Curves,” W. R. Garrett, of
Victoria, has a design composed of motor
wheels; in “Impassioned Clay,” Max
Dupain, of N.S.W., goes in for Epstein-
ish distortions of the human form. Lo
Tak-Cho, of China, shows a “Poor Man”
climbing up a flight of stairs which would
make an effective poster for a Refugee
Relief campaign. A straightforward
Cazneaux portrait of Norman Lindsay
is one of the most interesting.
Nudity in Art and Elsewhere.
“C. 8.,” his analysis:
The opinion passed by a police officer
in Sydney that the nudes hung in the
Society of Artists’ exhibition are not in-
decent is purely a matter of fashion. He
remarked that the pictures had been
painted by distinguished artists and did
not infringe any law; but if the circum-
stances had been different the same pic-
tures would probably have shocked him.
If this were properly understood the
public would be far more sympathetic to
the artist. Few people ever ask them-
selves what is conditioning the different
feelings they have regarding different
sorts of nudes, and that is why the law
and the public come to such contradic-
tory decisions as to what is decent or in-
decent. It is done for a painter to paint
a female nude. It is not done for him
to paint men completely naked, except
perhaps in allegorical subjects. What is
even more paradoxical, it is done for a
sculptor to model male as well as female
nakedness. It is done for their works
to be shown in exhibitions, and it is done
for the public to come and look at them
in exhibitions.
If people believe only in their feelings
—and most people believe implicitly in
their feelings—they can think that what
is decent in one environment is indecent
in another. But a thing cannot be both
decent and indecent, so something of
which they are quite unconscious must
be conditioning their feelings.
What conditions the feelings of the
public at an exhibition is a fashion. It
looks at its feelings through the eyes of
this fashion, and so long as it can believe
in the fashion there is no necessity for
it to ask itself any questions about its
feelings. Do the old ladies who enthusi-
astically collect Norman Lindsay’s etch-
ings ask themselves any questions? Thirty
years or so ago I was present at the
opening of the first Society of Artists’
show in Sydney after the great secession
from the Royals. Julian Ashton was, I
think, president, and the great event was
a display of Lindsay’s illustrations to the
Memoirs of Casanova. Old ladies and
their daughters sat around sipping coffee
and munching cream cakes, and not even
daring to glance at the drawings and etch-
ings which decorated the walls behind
them. The other day in Melbourne I
saw the same sort of old ladies eagerly
inspecting a show of Lindsay’s etchings,
some of them the same etchings, and bar-
gaining with the dealer for their posses-
sion. Lindsay’s subject-matter hasn’t
altered, nor has his treatment. The only
thing that has altered is the fashion.
But an artist is not concerned with ful-
filling any fashion. If he were, he would
not be an artist; he would be a manu-
facturer, and artistically of no use to the
community whatever. If he were re-
garded as indecent every time he did
something that was not in fashion there
could be no progress in art from the point
of view of public appreciation. A great
deal of what is now fashionable in art
was once regarded as indecent, and a
great deal that was considered ugly is
now considered beautiful.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
’•i Ji
Si
CIS
, ■. ■ -
-f/
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
Personal.
EUROPEAN DOCTOR, age 33 years, with
M.S. Diploma and good testimonials, seeks
position any description in Hospital, Sana-
torium or Health Institution. Moderate re-
muneration. Please write STEPHEN MILCH,
39 Queen's Gate, London, 5.W.7, England.
Missing Friends.
WILL anyone knowing the present address of
CHARLES WEST KIMBER, formerly of
Meekatharra (W.A.), please write to H. S. W.
LAWSON & CO., Solicitors, Castlemaine
(Vic:)? '
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you H»at
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting. The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. T.rt»n.T>c
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist for DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used sue-
cessfully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will
help flush out the 15 miles of tubes.
So be sure you get DOAN S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Excitement and admiration burst into
bravos, a stamping of feet, a waving of
programmes at the end of Marjorie Law-
rence’s concert in company with orches-
tra last week. The Town Hall rocked on
its foundations with the thunders of
appreciation. Never in this Letter’s
knowledge has woman singer been so
acclaimed. Coming out, complete stran-
gers congratulated one another on their
luck in being present. Marjorie, in her
white chiffons, looked about as heavy-
weight as a bit of thistledown ; and there-
fore all the more amazing is her voice
of heroic, of triumphant quality.
The house, in spite of the fare offered,
was not crowded out, especially in the
more expensive rows. Social lights were
noticeably absent. After the concert
the artist was besieged by congratu-
lators and autograph collectors. She
looked as radiant as the berries on her
frock. Her brother, Felix Wolfes (who
had conducted the orchestra) and Alfredo
Luizzi were all in the room enjoying
Marjorie’s triumph.
Graceful Ruby Adams, who studied
for grand opera, was in the audience.
Thomas Gordon’s lady brought dyed
ermine and soft satins. Mrs. Crawford
Vaughan was with niece Joan. Others
present were Mrs. Rex Bennett, Lute
Drummond, Ruth Pearce Jones, busy
rehearsing for her own recital, and
the tall Mrs Richard Dreyer, cloaked
in black velvet, who declared she
had heard the Salome and Brunnhilde
numbers in Paris, New York and Berlin,
but had never heard them sung better.
Old .Sydney friends make merry in
London: —
Clifford Hay, Agent-General for N. S. Wales,
and his wife gave a sherry party at their Craven
Hill residence, within coo-ee of Hyde Park,
before they left for the Royal Court. Mrs.
Hay’s classic gown of cream and gold brocade,
enhanced by her pearls and lovely white feather
fan, was greatly admired by those who came
to drink their health and bow before Clifford’s
gold braid. Amongst the guests were several
Agents-General and their wives: Charles Mc-
Cann and his lady, of S.A., Mr. and Mrs.
Bussau, Victoria, and Mr. and Mrs. Pike,
Queensland. The Burrows and Henderson
ladies were there,. Capable little Mrs. Beatrice
Macdonald, still busy with her good works,
Mrs. G. T. Doberer and her. pretty daughter
Mary, Belle Fosbery, Patricia Wheatley and
Marjorie Moir were among the younger folk
who attended.
Died recently at 88, Mrs. Sarah
Theresa Makinson, a gentle and loved
resident of Neutral Bay. Mrs. Makinson
had family connections in several States.
Her father was Arthur Fox, of Mary-
bank, Hectorville, S.A. Three daughters
and two sons mourn.
Louise Behar, a distinguished French-
woman who has been visiting the Charles
Philips, of Lindfield, was the reason for
a sherry party of great dimensions last
Sunday. Louise, small, dark and vivid,
goes back to Alexandria, where she is
in charge of the girls’ branch of the
Jewish school. Miss Behar, besides other
academic honors, is an officer of the
French Academy. Her decoration is a
wreath of palms with a broad, rich purple
ribbon. Every year in her three months’
holiday she visits a different part of the
world. This time she has added Maori-
land and Australia to her list. Besides
sherry there was music, Dagmar Roberts,
Lionel Cecil, Gladys Verona and G. Nas-
soor supplying piano and song notes.
To this party came some who had earlier
forgathered at Belgian Consul-General
Jansen’s place. There were a number of
guests at the Bellevue Hill party. Mrs.
Jansen and daughter Lucille wore lovely
dresses of thick black silk embroidered
in creamy tones. Anna May Wong was
a guest, wearing her luxurious almost
ankle-length mink coat. The Arini boys
played on demand any kind of music on
their inspired guitars.
Mrs. F. J. Davy, who takes the first
part of her journey with the Women’s
Overseas Hockey team this week, took
time off from a hundred and one
meetings, parties, hat fittings and what
not, to rush out to Mascot to greet Dr.
Grace Cuthbert. The Director of In-
fant and Maternal Welfare has been to
Europe and back and done an immense
amount of sightseeing and looking into
the infant and maternal welfare of other
countries within 10 weeks. Which makes
that holiday in Europe seem a more
easily-managed thing after all. Dr.
Grace visited Holland, France, England,
Scotland. She had a journey down the
Seine Valley, and paid a visit to her
old home in Scotland, staying with
relations. A golden wedding in the
family was another item in the 10 weeks.
She was a delegate to the B.M.A. Con-
ference in Aberdeen. Sounds like a record.
Those busy girls of the Kooroora Club
find time to lend a helping hand. St.
Luke’s, the hospital in which they are
most keenly interested, will benefit by
the party held in the Pickwick Club last
Thursday. The rooms were crowded
out with enthusiasts trying their luck at
bridge. Tripoli, Chinese checkers and
every card game in between. Sweet-
sellers did a great trade, and altogether
Alice Buddee (of this picture) and Mar-
jorie Gordon have a right to be proud of
the night they organised. Photograph
from Falk.
The first brick towards an Australian
national opera house has been made.
Franco Izal, one-time baritone to
Caruso’s tenor, is the proud maker. This
scheme to hold a national opera season
each year was put forward by him, was
enthusiastically seized upon by a group
of music-lovers headed by Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax, the Halse Rogers lady, pretty
Mrs. C. T. Lorenz and others, and the
inaugural meeting was the most im-
portant thing that happened in a week
otherwise dull to the point of stagnation.
The launching of this idea would be
important though the week had been
bristling with events.
Briefly, the idea is to commence with
a three weeks’ season next year, the cast
to be all professionals. But Australian
professionals. The exception will be the
leading tenor. He will come from over-
seas, and. will probably be one whom
the A.B.C. is bringing. Mr. Izal will take
over the business end, as well as the
production. As he has already toured
Australia and Tasmania with an opera
co. he has experience to back his singing
knowledge. The idea is to launch a
fund for the building of an opera house.
The first six nights’ takings of next
year’s season will go to various charities;
after that the fund proper will benefit.
The first meeting brought about 50
to the Australia. Roland Foster, Lute
Drummond, Ruth Pearce-Jones, Laurence
Macaulay, Mrs. Hubert Fairfax, the
Julius lady, the wife of the University’s
chancellor Halse 'Rogers, Mrs. Baldock
and Mrs. Vernon Coles were among en-
thusiasts. The committee, once formed,
is not to be disbanded. It is to be an
all-the-year-and-every-year working bee.
It is hoped to get the other States in-
terested in the scheme. Organising secre-
tary Mrs. Lorenz is full of ideas.
There was an atmosphere of pleasurable
excitement in the Independent Theatre
clubrooms last Friday, all hands being
pleased over their show, “1066 and All
That,” being turned into a real profes-
sional production at the Theatre Royal.
The show will strike the new stage
with very few changes, and these only
where members of the cast at the Con-
servatorium are not available. Pauline
Fran?ais, who arranged the dances and
the ensembles, is rushing around pluck-
ing a mannequin here, a beach beauty
and a ballet dancer there. The extra
space at the Royal calls for greater
numbers. Otherwise all her part will be
as before. The costumes were done by
Ethelwyn Kirk and Ethel Gabriel, and
they will enjoy seeing their designs in
an honest-to-goodness theatre setting.
Doris Fitton is at the helm. The show
goes on on August 18, and continues on
both the afternoon and evening of the 19th.
The Moreton Bay will bear away as
nice a group of women hockey players
as can be imagined. This time the team
will go first to England in time for a
sort of world jamboree of girl hockey
players. Teams from all parts of the
Empire, from Denmark and from the
U.S.A. will fight to a finish on the fields
of Bournemouth. They will then tour
England as the guests of the All England
Association. They visit Scotland and will
play in Amsterdam, Brussels and Paris,
and may then dash off to Leipzig or
Berlin. Lest they get stiff on the voyage,
they’ll play night hockey at Colombo.
This will round off a day of entertain-
ment and sight-seeing.
The tournament at Bournemouth will
be honored by royal spectators. But
this won’t make our girls nervous. Pretty
Mrs. Davy, managing her fourth overseas
tour, has told her charges how easy and
pleasant Kings and Queens can be. Still
outstanding in her memory is the kindly
fashion in which the late King George
and Queen Mary received the girls’
hockey team which visited England some
years ago. Before leaving Australia the
team will take part in the inter-State
tournament. Members of the team in-
clude University graduates, girls in com-
mercial jobs and girls from sheep stations.
A lass from Victoria is hostess at a
fashionable bridge club.
This is the latest photograph of Mrs.
Vrisakis, wife of the Consul-General for
Greece. With her husband she is on a
motor trip to the North. Photograph
from Falk.
China’s Consul-General Pao and his
handsome wife took in Marjorie Law-
rence’s concert on their way to the Anna
May Wong Ball. Kingfisher-blue was
the gleam of her frock beneath a ground-
length black velvet cape. This had its
shoulders squared and crusted with
iridiscent sequins. The ball was at the
Wentworth, and had many colorful
touches. One was the flower arch above
the official table in which the Chinese
actress’s name was emblazoned. Miss
Wong is pretty in the way of some ex-
quisite ivory. Her dress, cut on the
straight lines adopted by the women of
China, was of thick cream silk, embroid-
ered in gold butterflies. Her ornaments
were jade. The ball was organised by
the Young Chinese Relief Movement.
Anna May worked hard autographing her
own photographs for the cause, making
pounds and pounds.
Any guest who has read that fascinat-
ing little book Cha-No-Yu, the Japanese
Tea Ceremony, by A. L. Sadler, Profes-
sor of Oriental Studies at our own Uni-
versity, was delighted to find him at the
Australia last Wednesday. The professor
was the commentator on the Tea Cere-
mony which was being performed with
due elaboration by five ladies of Japan
in the Kent room. This was a Pacific
Islands Club function, and the ritual was
gone through from the boiling of the
water over a charcoal brazier. Miss
Okada was the hostess, and the wife of
Japan’s Consul-General was one of the
guests. All members of the little party
were in national dress. Unless the door
in the Kent room could be regarded as
a hole in the wall, nobody entered in the
traditional manner. When next you enjoy
your four-o’clock reflect that you owe
your light refreshment to Drauma, a
Buddhist monk whose eyelashes drifted
to earth, and immediately sprang up as
tea plants. _
Pictures of Myrine Collins in her bridal
finery have just reached Sydney. Myrine
looks like a Spanish senorita, and hus-
band Jimmy Harten is a tall, slim figure.
St. Peter’s, where the twain were wed, is
known as “the Mother Church ot
Catholic New York,” and it was built in
1874. Recently the “New Yorker” had
an article of many columns devoted to
it and to the street which it dominates.
Like St. Patrick’s on Church Hill, St.
Peter’s is constantly thronged with city
workers. Many of its week-day visitants
are workers from the City Hall (the
’groom, you remember, is on the muni-
cipal staff) and from. Wall-street. St.
Peter’s parishioners once numbered a
quarter of a million, but the growth of
the city and big business have seen the
withdrawal of private homes. Now the
largest congregations gather on week
days.
Margaret Windeyer’s death (it hap-
pened last week-end) removes a striking
personality from the life of Sydney.
Margaret, who was a daughter of the
late Judge Windeyer, had a brain that
outstripped the narrow confines of the
“Be good, sweet maid, and let who will
be clever” dictum that prevailed in her
girlhood. She was both. She was the
founder of the National Council of
Women, and she was one of the pioneer
women librarians of Australia. She had
gone to the U.S.A. to take a course of
instruction in library work, and on her
return was appointed to the staff of the
public library. She had been a younger
member of a circle that included the
famed Rose Scott. She was a clear, de-
cisive and witty speaker, and this Letter
last saw and heard her at the Camellia
Show in Macquarie Galleries. There
her reminiscences slipped back to the old
camellia grove, one of the joys of Sydney
of the ’nineties, now engulfed in an in-
dustrial suburb. Perhaps (and may it be
so) she has once again found the camellia
grove of her memory.
Strathfield Musical Comedy Society,
a band of pretty girls and happy
beaux, has always to journey as far
as Ashfield, and even Auburn, to
stage its shows. Surely such a
fashionable and progressive suburb
could give these societies a stage
with more leg room. Former shows
“High' Jinks” and “Our Miss Gibbs”
were followed by a very creditable
performance of “The Arcadians” dur-
ing last week. Fully 500 seats were
booked for the second night, and from
two performances with about £BO ex-
penses a profit is anticipated. Eisteddfod
champions Mervyn Matthews and Merle
Nicholls led in association with Henry
McLaughlin, Lorna Dane and Marjorie
Burkitt.
When the Orama left on Saturday a
heavy weight of brains was installed on
her various decks. L. S. Goddard, B.Sc.,
goes off to Cambridge with the Barker
Travelling and John Coutts Scholarships.
Further study in mathematics leading up
to the Mathematical Tripos is his object.
Another clever traveller is K. F. Walker.
He has already bagged, with his arts
degree, the University medal in psy-
chology. Cambridge and a higher de-
gree in psychology are his goals. Then
there’s Rita Harradence, M.Sc. Her sub-
ject is organic chemistry. First-class
honors, the University medal and the
John Coutts Scholarship are a few of her
glittering achievements. Oxford, of
course, and Professor Sir Robert Robin-
son, the high priest of organic chemistry
in that university, will direct her deeper
study. R. R. Cunninghame, M.A., rs
another student facing either Oxford or
Cam bridge.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1319 of 1939.
BETWEEN DOROTHY ANN GORTON Peti-
tioner
And ALEXANDER GEORGE GORTON
Respondent.
TO ALEXANDER GEORGE GORTON late
of Woolgoolga. 7
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
ANN GORTON has commenced a. suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground of non-com-
pliance with a Decree of Restitution of Con-
jugal Rights AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper • office of this Court on or
before the Thirty-first day of October One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Second day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
N. J. BELL, PHILLIPS & CO., Solicitors,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 557 of 1939.
BETWEEN HARRIETT TAYLOR Petitioner
Arid FREDERICK WILLIAM TAYLOR
Respondent.
TO FREDERICK WILLIAM TAYLOR for-
merly of Tuncurry.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HARRIETT
TAYLOR has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the First day of November
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fourth day of August, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
GEORGE R. VINCENT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1156 of 1939.
BETWEEN LILLIAN ESTHER MAY HARRIS
Petitioner
And LEONARD VINCENT HARRIS
Respondent.
TO LEONARD VINCENT HARRIS of
Carrington Streeet Waverley.
TAKE NOTICE that the said LILLIAN
ESTHER MAY HARRIS has commenced a
suit against you in this Court and is applying
for dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Third day of November One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and this suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had upon
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Ninth day of August One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. E. WHATMORE, G. C. M. GEE & CO.,
Solicitors, 14 Spring Street, Sydney, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1391 of 1939.
BETWEEN EMILY MONICA O’DOHERTY
Petitioner
And JAMES O’DOHERTY Respondent.
TO JAMES O’DOHERTY late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMILY
MONICA O’DOHERTY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Ninth day
of November 1939 and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of August, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
HUGH W. S. JERMYN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 12 O’Connell Strfeet, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The last day of the steeplechase meet-
ing at Caulfield, which marks the end
of the jumping season, is like the turn of
the year, for, once it’s over, there, just
beyond the horizon, is the Cup, with its
attendant circumstances of spring clothes,
summer hats and other warmer weather
generalities. Out at Caulfield on Satur-
day the braziers were as popular as ever
and excited the particular interest of
the American visitors present, who ex-
pressed their approval of the course, with
a special mention of this season’s new
glass-window luncheon room.
Checks had a day out; so did swing-
back coats. The coming spring will cer-
tainly be full of swings, with either raglan
shoulders or those that are squared and
padded, especially designed for the taller,
slimmer people. An American visitor
wore a box-back tweed coat, a passport
to sportsmanship with its loose non-
chalant lines and high built-up shoulders,
in a design of blue, green and yellow
check. Kathleen Grant Hay was in a
short check coat of fruit-juice red and
turquoise, with hat and skirt of the
former color. Sister Alison wore a green-
and-white check suit. To a grey suit
Mrs. J. B. Hawkes, of Geelong, added
very successfully a dash of scarlet for
accessories and for ribbons aloft and
as an anchorage for her tip-tilted grey
hat.
Mrs. Herbert Benton was noticeable
among the well-turned-out people in
black. Her facecloth coat was orna-
mented down the sides of the sleeves
with fringes made of the same material.
Mrs. Normoyle (Sydney) was in navy
blue and lucky mascots of three zebra
face buttons down the front of her coat.
One tall young woman, obviously a visi-
tor to Melbourne, created a furore
among people with cameras, whether
professional or amateur, for, like the
birds and the spring flowers who made
a mistake this season and started October
activities early in June, she came along
dressed for a summer day. Her frock
of Marina-blue and white pussywillow was
accompanied by a straw hat trimmed
with violets and blue ribbons and by
white bag, shoes and gloves ; her only
layer of warmth being two platinum
foxes. It didn’t rain, so her luck was
in and the fragile frock was saved from
ruin, but the shoes must have suffered.
The grass stood up nobly to the thou-
sands of tramping feet, but by the end
of the day the low-lying lawns oozed
moisture with every step.
Summonses were issued at the
R.A.C.V. Ball held in the Palais, but the
penalties were light—fines at the lucky-
dip windows, which were paid with alac-
rity, particularly by those who appreciated
the contrast (they having had in the past
the experience of a real piece of blue
paper). At the dance the “policemen”
wore helmets and carried truncheons, but
looked as if they were open to bribery
in the matter of raffle tickets all for the
good cause. Among them were Margaret
Tucker (very slim in her moonlight-blue
satin gown), Jean Paterson (also in blue),
Lorna Potter (in summer sunshade stripes),
Bob Rose, Sid Blair and Diana Foster
Woods (in primrose taffeta sprigged with
flowers and an orchid in her hair). Hope-
fully she pursued an air trip to Sydney
in the lucky dip, but her best effort was
a free shampoo and set.
Mrs. Harry Bloch won a camera in
the dip, Mrs. E. W. Cox silk stockings
and A. J. Terdich several tins of cocoa
and pairs of braces. He was the owner
of the 1903 motor-buggy shown in the
hall as a contrast to a 1939 car. The
buggy, which was given a coat of paint
especially for this Automobile Club Ball,
can still get along on its own power at
the breathless pace of 20 miles an hour.
Proceeds from the dance, at which there
were 1200 present, go to the M.D.N.S.
and the After-care Hospital.
The 1939 “Show Boat” was launched
at the Palais, St. Kilda, with what was
perhaps the largest afternoon bridge
party for charity held in Melbourne.
Aboard were 280 reserved tables. Many
of the players brought rugs, and were
envied by their neighbors. Considering
the number of chatterboxes present it
wouldn’t have been surprising if the
vibrations had rattled the rafters off the
roof, but it’s a high roof, and it was quite
possible to hear most of the bids and
even do a spot of serious thinking.
The crew of the “Show Boat” pull off
their annual voyage with amiable smiles
and honeyed words, and never a flash of
the emerald eye of jealousy, which is
rather remarkable considering that four
committees are concerned (the St. Kilda
auxiliaries of the Alfred, the Children’s
and the Eye and Ear Hospitals and the
Balaclava and East St. Kilda Free Kin-
dergarten). The president, Mrs. Archie
Michaelis, presented to the lucky dip
some of her handwork, including a tapes-
try fire screen and a cushion cover of
many merry colors in appliqued felt.
Mrs. C. H. Peryman’s gift of “to-mor-
row’s dinner” gave every competent
home-maker a twitter of personal interest
in her own kitchen. A beach bag of gay
blue linen for one of next summer’s
beach girls came from Mrs. Arthur Old-
ham.
A gift from Mrs. F. D. Michaelis was
a set of accessories so hard to find when
shopping for them —handbag, gloves and
belt all matching. Miss D. Taylor’s gift
was an embroidered supper-cloth, and
Mrs. John Levi’s a linen stocking bag
(incentive towards finding legs to match
and not just odd orphans in the early-
morning rush). Mrs. G. Rodd was once
again secretary of the bridge party.
A newcomer and the only man present
(except for the decorators climbing lad-
ders to reach the heads of giant sun-
flowers which would face dancers at one
of the week’s balls) was the treasurer,
H. F. McCrae, of the staff of the Alfred
Hospital. Mrs. D. J. Sloman’s produce
stall sold out before the party was over.
A committee of girls, including kinder-
garten voluntary helpers, sold sweets and
handed around tea. An innovation was
that each table’s sandwiches were sealed
in hygienic packets. Through the influ-
ence of Mrs. Abe Harris, the Palace was
donated free of charge, so that, with
other donations, profits should equal
gross takings.
In the Broothorn photograph is Mrs.
Hugh McCubbin, who is well known in
Melbourne for her black-and-white por-
traiture of children. Before her marriage
Mrs. McCubbin studied art at the
National Gallery. Though her first suc-
cess came with line she has always felt
an urge for color, and now that son John
is 12 and the twins are .eight, she is making
more time to devote to this interest. Mrs.
McCubbin says that the children have
given her a lot of encouragement in her
work, and have been useful experimental
material for her in her preparation of a
course of lectures and practical work for
students on the subject of color (not only
in art but as an everyday accompaniment
of life).
Her husband, too, assisted, for, as Mrs.
McCubbin assimilated theories on color
from artists and philosophers such as
Leonardo da Vinci, Goethe and Schopen-
hauer, he experimented with a rotary
wheel for displaying color combinations
and studied the work of scientists who
have made discoveries about color, start-
ing with Newton and progressing to Wil-
helm Ostwald (who did famous research
on color, won the Nobel Prize for
Physics and died 1932). Mrs. McCubbin
believes that through the study of color
interesting advances will be made in such
subjects as decorating, furnishing, house-
painting, individual taste in clothes, etc.
To pacify its bank manager the Free
Kindergarten Union is bestirring itself to
do something about its overdraft, hence
the advent of “The Breadwinner” in the
Union Theatre last week. The show was
part of a virtuous (as distinct from a
vicious) circle, for it was the Combined
Banks’ Dramatic Club which put it on
with the help of Terence Crisp producing.
The Somerset Maugham play enjoyed a
two nights’ season, proceeds from the
second evening going to the Banks’
Dramatic Club.
The kindergartens were unlucky in that
on their night every road became a river,
the gutters were rushing torrents and the
audience to a man and a woman arrived
with splashed ankles or worse damage.
Wrapped in black velvet, Mrs. Geoffrey
Walker supervised the sales of pro-
grammes in the foyer. Mrs. Louis Smith
and Miss M. Emmerton spread propa-
ganda about sweets hidden in the hearts
of decorative posies, the artful handwork
of Mrs. L. C. McCallum, which were
sold in the interval by the papier mache
trayful carried among the rows of seats
by Mrs. Marshall Alsop (of Sydney) in a
gown of pastel-blue satin, its sunray pleat-
ings a challenge to the dampness in the
air.
Gwenda Carney’s commission was the
filling up of books of tickets for a dinner
dance. After the show, Mrs. T. A.
a’Beckett mounted the platform to
murmur “God bless you” to all con-
cerned, particularly the bank boys and
girls. Regarding the play itself, Frederick
May showed a talent far removed from
adding up piles of money ; his Charles
was such a natural and convincing Bread-
winner for his parasitic family that none
of the pitfalls of the part were ever
noticed. Douglas Mcßride, as Alfred,
the second husband and father, also gave
help. The girls in the show evidently
had their own way in the matter of
make-up, for they all looked the same
generation irrespective of the fact that
they were interpreting two mothers and
their two daughters.
A Broothorn camera made this portrait
of Lawre Falkiner, younger daughter of
the Otway Falkiners, of Boonoke North,
Widgiewa (N.S.W.), whose marriage will
be celebrated at St. John’s on August 31.
The bridegroom, to whom Lawre became
engaged while on a holiday visit to India
earlier in the year, is Major Bruce Steer,
2-15 Punjab Regiment, only son of the
late Captain Bruce Steer, D. 5.0., and of
Mrs. Steer, whose home is Lydstep, Mine-
head, Somerset, England.
A friendship which budded in Univer-
sity days while John Woodward was
doing medicine and Cecily Timmins
science blossomed forth last week with a
fussless wedding at St. Joseph’s Church,
Malvern. Dr. Woodward, who has been
away from Australia for 15 months, made
good use of his return to Melbourne on
leave. He was only here for three weeks,
but in that time he managed to persuade
Cecily to accept from him both a
diamond ring and a wedding ring and a
passport to accompany him to Karachi,
where he is attached to the Indian Army
Medical Service. Davern Wright, who
while studying law was one of the
’groom’s contemporaries up at the
“Shop,” was best man, and Prue Timmins
flew over from Sydney to hold her sister’s
flowers and glove at the opportune
moment. The bride’s attire was charming
as it was simple—frock and coat of white
sheer, with a summer garden of flowers
piled high upon the crown of a white
straw hat.
Mrs. Oswald Gibson has made an-
other dolls’ house, her most ambitious
so far, for this time it is a two-storeyed
mansion containing 20 rooms ; also swim-
ming pool and courtyard, lily pond, sun
porches and a piazza where a band could
play upon summer evenings. No article
of furniture or furnishings has been for-
gotten. Mrs. Gibson made a petit-point
rug for one of the rooms. In the “den”
there is a leopard-skin rug made from the
genuine article which Mrs. Gibson col-
lected on her travels in South Africa
and worked upon so that now it has
a tiny feline face and sharp needle
points of teeth.
Mrs. Gibson bought numbers of things
for her house, which she calls Lilliput
Mansion, in London in the Burlington
Arcade, but they were not cheap (it is
easy to see how the house has cost over
£150). The grand piano was £l, and
several of the doll inhabitants were 30s.
each, but Mrs. Gibson considers that they
are worth it, for they are adjustable. One
young man is playing billiards. In
Houndsditch she discovered a tiny type-
writer, and in the Chinese quarter of
San Francisco several curios and useful
oddments which were fair game for her
inventive genius.
The electric radiators are made from
buttons; so are the plates upon the
Lilliput family’s dining-table. Whisky
and brandy decanters were once a
pair of doll’s field glasses. Walton
Middleditch built the house, did the
electric wiring and made the refrigerator.
Evelyn Syme donated a tiny picture, and
a ship acquaintance of the Ascanius em-
broidered a footstool. All the other
properties are Mrs. Gibson’s gifts or
handwork. From to-day (16th) the house
will be on view at Buckley’s in aid of
the Ministering Children’s League and
other charities.


SMILE THROUGH
W**t*!_
Treot colds, 'flu and
catarrh where the trouble
starts ... in the nose
and throat . . . with
Nazol the germ - de-/-.I
stroying application that
gives instant relief and
rapidly ends infection. Nazol soothes
while it heals! Use Nazol liberally at
the first sign of winter ills and you'll
smile through winter! Nazol costs 2/6
for a big supply . . . ask your chemist!
u
9*o
AUST R A L » A. N
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages-—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom-—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Reef Vandals
Something should be
done, and done soon, by the Queens-
land Government to stop the stupid
destruction of coral and other reef-life
by visitors to the few accessible islands
off the N.Q. coast. The idea, of course,
is just a few bits to take home and show
them what it’s like—the result the mar-
ring of glorious submarine flower
gardens.
A stout gentleman armed with a
tyre-lever and a sugar-bag put the matter
in a clamshell, so to speak. “There’s tons
of it here,” he said. “A bit for our
sitting-room to show the visitors won’t
make any difference.” Whereupon he
prized off several branches from the
centre of a perfect live staghorn and put
them in the bag. I drew attention to
the beauties of cone shells, but unfor-
tunately could not find one of the sting-
ing species for him to play about with.
The usual history of such self-made
collections of “curios” is that they soon
begin to smell and are chucked away in
a few days. Dead coral has a niff of its
very own, and even if the collector takes
the trouble to boil them it is not a wel-
come act to anyone within nose-range.
Probably not one in every score pieces of
vandalised coral is ever gazed on by the
envious eye of the visitors.
All reef-island tourist resorts and ad-
joining reefs and islands should be
gazetted as sanctuaries, the proprietors
made wardens, and notices displayed at
the boarding-houses warning visitors
not to touch or destroy coral or other
reef products. Or to shoot birds —an-
other idiotic activity of the reef-vandal.
Proprietors should be made responsible
for seeing that the notices are obeyed.
Proprietors of boats taking visitors out
to unoccupied islands should be similarly
instructed and empowered as a condition
of license. A plainclothes policeman
disguised as a f.a.q. tourist might well
pay a round visit during the tourist
season to make sure that the ordinances
are observed, and to ensure that suitable
examples are made of those who infringe
them deliberately, visitors or otherwise.
“X.T.”: Darwin’s new administrative
building is to cost £60,000. It looks like
the Palace of the League of Nations at
Geneva. The £60,000 would have built
a decent road across Arnhem Land or
down the Roper from the railway to the
Gulf or established a cheap motor trans-
port service for the inland. However,
it is good to see that the Government
does something thoroughly. There are
180 public servants in the Territory,
according to last estimates, including the
Administrator and 46 police, and there
are roughly 180 windows in the projected
palace. So even if the whole force were
to assemble in the capital at one time,
everybody, including the office boy, would
have a casement from which to gaze
proudly on the new silent cops, the new
pub and a young Ah Hop reading
Spadger’s tips for Randwick on the pave-
ment.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: One of the worst air acci-
dents New Guinea can remember oc-
curred when a single-engined Fokker
crashed at the Alexishafen Mission when
taking off. The machine was bought for
the mission by Ray Parer in Adelaide a
few months ago. Inspector Taylor has
reported to the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment that it was overloaded. Father
Franz Kirschbaum, Father Jakob Weyer
—vicar to the Bishop of Alexishafen —
Father Otto Bader, a mission teacher,
Pilot Schaffbausen and a native lost their
lives.
The death of Father Kirschbaum de-
prives the world of anthropology of a
wealth of first-hand experience. Origi-
nally attached to Marienberg, on the
Sepik, he travelled most of the uncon-
trolled areas along the north coast of
New Guinea, and the New Guinea
Official Handbook records “no other
white man living knows the Sepik as does
this missionary.” For many years he had
access to places where no white man
could go with safety. Years ago a stir was
made in the scientific world by Father
Kirschbaum’s discovery of the Aforo, a
race of pigmy agriculturists in the moun-
tains from which the headwaters of the
Ramu issue.
* * * *
“A.C.”: Marrakai, Vesteys’ station,
100 miles from Darwin, has been much
visited of late. Headed by William Ves-
tey, son of one of the brothers whose
£1,000,000 enterprise now houses the
“You Ward to be careful, mister! The road ain't so good further on.”
“Glamor Boys,” as the irreverent Dar-
winite has christened the soldiery, the list
of recent visitors includes Minister Casey,
one Smith, representing Canadian lum-
bering interests, and several army officers.
Buffalo, numerous on the station, have
been the chief lure, although manager
Patterson declined to give most of the
visitors permission to shoot them, be-
cause he felt it would be encroaching on
the preserves of the professional. Stott,
Vesteys’ shooter, is in Darwin public
hospital, having lost an eye.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Townsville Harbor has had
a busy year. About 120,000 tons of sugar,
valued at £1,788,935, was 'the largest
export; wool, worth £1,600,000, came
next; then metals, 102,000 tons, roughly
£1,300,000, and meat, tallow and hides,
more than £1,000,000. In all, out-
ward trade was worth about £6,000,000,
“Zedo”: Brisbane will shortly have its
first R.A.F. squadron in residence at
Archerfield. For a beginning it will con-
sist of 15 machines—Avro Ansons and
training Moths—and 170 men.
* * * *
“Ricardo”: Many notorious killers
finished on the gallows at Boggo-road,
Brisbane. Now, at the instance of Min-
ister Hanlon, the lethal platform is to be
demolished as unworthy of a State that
abolished capital punishment in 1922. It
was a commodious structure, built to
hold a round dozen. Actually, the gal-
lows claimed the last murderer —a half-
caste —in 1913. About the last bush-
ranger to go to his doom—one of the
Kenniffs finished on Boggo-road’s
gloomy stage.
* * 4= *
“Ente Marid”: Premier Forgan Smith
opened Brisbane’s new medical school
last week. The building is a dignified
porticoed rectangle of Renaissance brick
and stone. Its lecture-room is fitted for
cinema demonstrations, and there is a
fipe museum which the gravediggers of
Hamlet would love —one section consists
of 1000 skulls and other anatomical bits
and pieces which J. V. Duhig has been
hoarding up for a couple of decades.
The professors are J. V. Duhig (patho-
logy), Raphael Cilento (social and tropi-
cal medicine), Alex. Murphy (medicine),
Neville Sutton (surgery), H. J. Wilkinson
(anatomy) and S. Adam (obstetrics and
gynaecology), mostly Queenslanders.
* * * *
“O. de V.”: Leaning against the bar of
a country pub in New Caledonia I com-
pared the assortment of beverages with
what may be found in an Australian
bush pub. That N.C. bar displayed over
120 bottles of different drinks and not
more than two or three—well-known
whiskies —would be on tap in the bush.
Our two staple beverages —beer and
whisky—are not in great demand in the
French colonies, although bottled beer,
French and Japanese, is popular. In New
Caledonia, wines are not only good and
cheap, but you can get a drink at practi-
cally any hour of the day or night, and
the only time anyone is to be found under
the influence is when a tourist steamer
calls at Noumea. Local tastes cover a
wide range of aperitifs —quinquinas , ver-
mouth, absinthe, the prelude to lunch or
dinner —and an equally large choice of
liqueurs to top off the cafe noir. Curi-
ously enough, sherry is practically un-
known there, while port, which we bring
in after dinner, is included among the
aperitifs. Drinking there is a leisurely,
unhurried affair. There is no need to
keep one eye on the clock, no five-to-six
rush, no drunks.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: As a model of terse
expression in vivid Australian, the young
Inky Wayfarer may well study the
Bowen Notes of the “N.Q. Register.”
Alluding to the Town Council’s little joke
of tarring the streets just as Show Week
began, Our Own comments: “Some of
the remarks would give a parrot a para-
lytic stroke, and be very useful to a
sergeant-major.” Censuring a paucity
of postal facilities he refers to “tele-
phone girls and telegrams—all of whom
are as flat-out as a frilled lizard.” De-
nouncing the low prices received for
locally-grown tomatoes, he alludes to
“our large sitting army of well-paid
politicians,” and goes on to say that
“the price of a pot was regulated long
ago {by specifying the size of pot), but
then, of course, beer is a necessity of
life.” The Commonwealth Meteorolo-
gist, too, might well study this gem of
weather forecasting: “... .probably when
old-man Moon takes charge of the
heavenly citadel the clouds will fold up
their blankets and clear out.”
* * * *
“East Point”: Dead in Sydney, Mrs.
May (“Ma”) Brown —to old-timers Mrs.
“Wolfram” Brown-—one of the most
extraordinary women the North has
known. When she and her brothers were
in the Pine Creek (N.T.) district she
owned one of the biggest wolfram mines
in the Commonwealth. She was a shrewd
businesswoman, and in the days when
she kept the Playford Club Hotel, at Pine
Creek, and the Victoria, in Darwin, many
a down-and-out was the better for a few
shillings and a few feeds through her
kindness. Her pet hate was the Admin-
istration, and she had quaint ways ot
expression. Gazing at a gathering of
civil servants one day, she said: “Lay
’em in a row and the boys would think
you were putting down a new railway!
A wild and woolly young meat-worker
was making a hullabaloo in the annexe
to the Victoria. He refused to budge til!
“Ma” sent him a message asking him to
visit the bar. “I got something to say to
you,” she said. “Oh, have you?” replied
the brash young m.w. “What?” “That,”
said “Ma,” crowning him heavily with
the bottom of a pewter pot. Another
day at Pine Creek a Chinese half-caste
showed signs of running amuck. He
arrived in the bar with a knife about a
foot long. Customers moved rapidly,
but Mrs. B.’s gait as she came round the
counter was stately. She strolled up to
the half-caste, looked at the knife with
interest, took it out of his hand and
snorted: “Too blunt! Go to the kitchen
and tell Ah Foo to give you a sharp
one.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: In what might be termed
the fibre handicrafts the Kimberley black
is clever, Most native peoples depend for
cords and ropes on the green hides of
animals. Binghi had skins, but never
the knife to slit them with. So he and
she fell back on fibre. Lacking flax or
sisal, they turned to the bark of trees and
roots. Mostly the fibre derived from root
bark is superior, giving a longer and more
pliable staple. Strong enough to hang
a man or moor a boat is the pencil-
thick rope that Mrs. Binghi twists from
the root bark of the wild fig, and as
neat-looking as hemp clothesline. Have
known whites to argue that abo.
rope was actually a length of clothes-
line obtained from some mission store
and merely dyed green. Nor does
the abo. weaver use a rope-walk. Her
only tools —it is invariably a she —are a
stick for a bobbin, her hand and her not
overplump thigh. Squatting alongside a
heap of fibre Mrs. Binghi will roll rope
by the hour. And string the same way;
string as strong and as neat as, and barely
detectable from, the macrame string that
our maiden aunts used so diligently to
weave into mostly useless bags. As
material for such string, Mrs. B. takes
the unpromising spinifex blade, soaks it,
pounds it, extracts the fibre, and her deft
fingers do the rest. And she can weave it
inio a bag as neat as that left by the late
Aunt Jessica.


SHEARERS’
DRINKING MUGS
Hygienic and Durable
FOWLER WARE
l
MUGS of Finest Quality,
Semi-vitreous EARTHENWARE
Perfectly smooth
No curled edges
Do not stain or rust
No lodgment for food remnants to putrefy
Retains liquid temperatures longer
Made specially for industrial and rural use
Will withstand plenty of hard usage
Always clean and glistening
Merchants throughout Australia stock Fowler Products —
Household Crockery and Stoneware, Sanitaryware ,
Wall and Flooring Tiles.
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Potters for more than a Century
Marrickville, N.S.W. - Thomastown, Vic. - Brisbane, Qld.
v:
£
a
j
MS*
4
m
is
L
“Bellevue” Pedestal Basin, Rd. 10926. “Marrick” Suite Rd. 10372.
DESIGN FOR A MODERN BATHROOM.
The past twenty years have seen a rapid evolution of the
bathroom from just a necessary adjunct of the home to the
most important room in the house. To-day, comfort,
convenience and brightness are all carefully planned.
The illustration above indicates the advantages of furnishing
a bathroom with Fowler glazed earthenware—more generally
known as Fowler Ware—which provides a wide choice of
Pedestal and Wall Basins, Toilet Suites and earthenware
accessories such as sponge and soap holders, shower roses,
tooth-brush holders, faucet outlets, towel rails, robe hooks, etc.
Fowler floor and wall tiles, obtainable in great variety,
complete the modern bathroom.
The enduring quality and mirror-like glazed finish of Fowler
Ware ensures lifetime satisfaction and labor-saving advantages.
Inspect the modern designs in Fowler Ware stocked by hard-
ware and builders’ suppliers throughout the Commonwealth.
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Manufacturers of ceramics for over a century
FITZROY STREET, MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
THOMASTOWN, VICTORIA. ALDERLEY, QUEENSLAND.
J
1
e
POETRV IN CHINA 1
Tea Sets
Dinner Sets
After-dinner
Coffee Sets
with
Electric Table
Lamps to
Match
Shelley is Poetry in Chinctivare
Send 3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage and packing
for beautifully-colored catalogue and name of nearest
distributor.
T. W. HEATH Pty. Ltd.
G.P.O. Box 1389 J, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Stop That Tap Dripping!
Registered Number 9425,
TAP WASHER
PERFECT NON-DRIP—EASY TO FIT-
LONG LIFE !
Slightest pressure cuts off water supply.
£in. and fin., THREE for 6d.
lin., TWO for 6d.
If unobtainable locally, three Washers on a card
giving full instructions will be mailed on receipt
of six penny stamps. State size of Tap. £in. or
ifin., Three for 6d. lin., Two for 6d.
Holdtite, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Canteens of Cutlery
by
COOPER BROS. OF SHEFFIELD
World-famous Cutlers and
Silversmiths since 1866.
"LlUslils,
II
MMC.
SA: \-£££ry£/.
«.\25
Obtainable from all
leading stores and
jewellers.
Trade inquiries to
BOX 1389 J,
SYDNEY.


Most Valuable
Radio Books
Ever Published!
In those books, you secure the circuits and
relevant data of Australia’s Standard
Receivers in addition to a wealth of handy
sendee and reference material. There
are two volumes of, the Australian Official
Radio Service Manual. Vol. 1 (392 pages)
contains the circuits of 1937 standard
receivers and Vol. 2 (412 pages) the
1938 circuits.
Price of either volume, 7/6 (with limp
covers) and' 10/-' (with stiff covers).
Postage Bd.
Australian Official
Radio Service Manual
Obtainable from electrical and radio
wholesalers, booksellers or the publishers,
“The Electrical and Radio World,’’
Box 1538-V, G.P.0., Brisbane.
“SELL”
WITH METROPOLITAN, PRIMARY
PRODUCING & GOLDFIELDS
—COVERAGE—
6PM
6AM
6KG
St. George’s
Perth .. . 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Hse., St. George’s Tee., Pertli
[?
X
w.
OMI <3ok
Wsfch
|ai|inai
Like the
old musician, valves become
worn after constant playing.
Enjoy pleasurable radio . . .
Revalve with
m.
z
Sealed for your protection
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Faraday-shielded Loop for
Broadcast Reception.
Many years ago broadcast radio re-
ceivers were dependent upon more than
a reasonable amount of signal gain from
the aerial itself, for the reason that valve
gain was low. A few feet of wire around
a picture-rail was unthinkable as an
aerial, and the receivers of those days
sported large-diameter tuning coils, in-
cluding the aerial coupler, which was
tuned with the aerial to resonance at the
signal frequency. The aerial itself was
as high as possible, and not less than
100 ft. long. Even in the light of present-
day achievement, remarkably good results
were obtained, but as radio has pro-
gressed valves give R.F. and audio ampli-
fication to spare with receivers of com-
pact dimensions. Coils are no longer
3in. in diameter ; they are of the iron-
cored type, in small screening cans. With
all this, the aerial coupler is, pro rata, a
very inefficient part of the modern re-
ceiver, but it serves the purpose, be-
cause the receiver itself makes up the
deficiency. Years ago the loop or frame
aerial was popular, when the early super-
hets made an appearance and such gad-
Fig. 1. —The appearance of the completed
assembly of the Faraday-shielded broad-
cast loop aerial.
gets formed an unsightly affair placed on
top of coffinlike cabinets. They had ad-
vantages, however, as they contributed
to selectivity by reason of directivity, the
early superhet being quite inselective in-
herently.
In U.S.A. the Gernsback publication
“Radio-Craft” recently introduced an in-
teresting and obviously very efficient
adaptation of the old loop in modern
form, naming it the “Beam-a-scope,” and
the idea is well worth consideration, both
experimentally and commercially. It in-
volves the application of the Faraday-
shield principle to a loop aerial for
broadcast reception.
The aerial problem is acute with most
broadcast receivers used in metropolitan
areas, for the reason that plain aerials
will pick up unwanted electrical noise and
outside interference. Much of the elec-
trical disturbance created in and around
the home is conducted through the elec-
trie-light wiring, and radiates to the aerial
and lead-in. This Faraday-shielded loop
is designed to reduce such noise to a
minimum, if not completely eliminate it.
The directional characteristic of a loop
aerial is one of the properties used for
noise-reduction in this method. This is
done by so, orienting the loop that the
principal source of noise is in the direc-
tion of zero response of the loop. In
addition to this, however, the loop is
surrounded by an electrostatic shield,
thus eliminating the capacity between
loop and earth. By this means noise
Fig. 2. —Explaining the function of a
shielded aerial system.
which would otherwise be picked up in
the earth-return path of the aerial is
eliminated.
Construction.
The electrostatic shield around a loop
aerial in this scheme is cylindrical in
form, as shown in Fig. 1, the ends being
two metal disks. The side consists of a
woven material in which the vertical
threads are metallic. All vertical threads
make contact with the top disk, but only
one of the threads makes contact with
the bottom disk. In this way there are
no closed conducting circuits parallel to
the loop, so that the Q or efficiency of
the loop is not impaired, and the mag-
netic pickup of signals is still possible.
Ordinarily, the sensitivity of a loop would
be small, but in this construction the sen-
sitivity of a normal indoor aerial is re-
tained because the loop is tuned. Since
the loop size is determined in the design
of the receiver, the condenser tuning it
can be ganged with the condensers tuning
R.F. and oscillator sections. Besides the
noise-reduction obtainable with this de-
velopment, there is also the practical ad-
vantage that no external aerial or earth
connection is necessary with the receiver.
The “Beam-a-scope” is designed solely
for use on the broadcast wave-lengths,
and no noise-reduction properties are
Fig. 3. —A skeleton illustration of the
construction.
claimed for it on the short-wave bands.
Fig. 1 is an illustration of the completed
assembly; the circuit of Fig. 2 shows
how it functions, and Fig. 3 is an exag-
gerated outline of the principle of con-
struction. In use, the unit is placed under
the chassis shelf in a console cabinet.
D.B.K.
U.-H.-F. Section. W.I.A.
(N.S.W. Division.)
The third meeting of the ultra-high-
frequency section of the Wireless Insti-
tute of Australia, N. S. Wales Divi-
sion, was held in Sydney on August 3.
The chair was taken by the president,
those present being VKs 2IQ, 2HZ, 2VN,
2MQ, 2AIK, 2NG, 2BJ, 2EM, 2TI,
2PX, 2PF, 2AFJ, 2AJO and R. Ruther-
ford. Visitors included W. Zech
(VK2ACP), C. Wilson and C. Clark
(R.A.N.).
Correspondence dealt with included a
letter from ZL4HM, operator on the
Union Co.’s s.s. Kairanga, offering to co-
operate with the section in any forthcom-
ing seagoing 56mc. tests between VK
and ZL. This matter will be taken up in
the summer.
The secretary was instructed to write
Philips Lamps thanking that co. for the
gift of a special 500-watt projector lamp
for use in the episcope recently made for
the section by Ron Rutherford.
VK2TI emphasised the importance of
W.I.A. members attending the monthly
general meeting of the division, as well
as the u.-h.-f. section meetings.
The coming Newcastle Convention was
also discussed by VK2TI. This convention
takes place on September 9 and 10, and
promises to be the largest get-together of
N.S.W. amateurs yet arranged. There
will be many interesting events and con-
tests for which prizes will be awarded.
Vice-president VK2HZ suggested the
establishment of a relay chain of 56mc.
stations, covering an area from New-
castle to Wollongong. Experience shows
that such a chain would be a practical
possibility if stations will co-operate, and
the chain could be extended much
further, taking in the Blue Mountains,
Bathurst, Orange and Singleton,
An announcement of general import-
ance to N.S.W. experimenters is that the
Radio Inspector’s office is now prepared
to give frequency checks from the receiv-
ing station at Middle Head. Times dur-
ing which this service can be given are
Wednesdays between 4 and 5 p.m. and
Thursdays between 12.15 and 1 p.m.
In view of the success in relays of
56mc. transmissions recently, as under-
taken by VKs 2NO and 2IQ, it was de-
cided to communicate with the Victorian
u.-h.-f. section, suggesting that, by the
use of 80, 40 or 20 metres, round-table
conferences could be arranged between
the two States, with two key stations re-
laying local 56mc. transmissions. Such
communication would arouse consider-
able interest for u.-h.-f. men and
observers on the other bands.
Eric Fanker (VK2HS), chief engineer
of Tasma Radio, was guest speaker,
and dealt at length with important points
in the design and construction of u.-h.-f.
superheterodyne receivers.
The weekly roster of Sydney 56mc.
stations for nightly transmission is main-
tained, with the exception that VK2NO
and VK2VN have changed nights, the
former operating on the Tuesday-night
schedule and 2VN on Wednesday nights.
D.B.K.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
The 10-metre amateurs have been
doing much better than the 11-metre
broadcasters lately. The 49-metre band
is excellent in the mornings ; night re-
ception, however, is noisy at that fre-
quency, although the two Manila stations,
Manchukuo and Saigon override the
noise.
Stations heard between 46.metres and
50 metres are CS2WD, RNE, RV96,
GSA, DJC, DJY (no doubt the old
Vienna OER2), ZRH, ZRK, SBO, LKJ,
SP4B, 2ROI, OLR2B and YVA. The
latter was heard twice, closing at 7 a.m.
after announcements in several languages.
Others in this region are OAX4Z, XEUZ,
TGWB, HJIABG and CJRO.
Two stations logged on 31 metres are
OAXSC and OAX4J, the former at R 6
and the latter heard only on Sundays
between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. Some of these
stations are good “finds,” and well repay
the long waiting for identification. More
than 60 different stations have been heard
in the morning hours.
K.B.G.
Amateur Chatter.
DX is so much an everyday affair at
present that it is interesting to see what
was happening 10 years or so ago. A
few jottings from the old N.S.W.R.T.L.
magazine *CQ”:
On 23/9/’2B OA3CP and OZIAN worked
two-way for the first VK-ZL 10-metre contact.
Time was 1.20 p.m. Auckland time and signals
Q 5 RB-C.W. ... r a nr T
In August, 1928, N.S.W. Division of A.R-l-E.
was merged in the W.I.A.
Philips A 442 screen-grid valve was mtio-
duced in 1928 and in general use in amateur
receivers in 1929. .
First short-wave all-metal receiver using
A 442 S.G. R.F. amplifier designed and de-
scribed by Don B. Knock in 1928.
1929.—A.C. valves came into being.
Extensive aviation-radio tests undertaken tor
N.S.W. Aero Club by Syd Colville during 1929.
In July, 1929, N.S.W. amateur stations form-
ing R.A.A.F. reserve chain were OAs
2HC, 2NO, 2WK, 2AW, 2KB, 2CH, 2WP
and 2JQ. ,
In 1928 A2DY and A2IJ conducted success-
ful five-metre tests between Sydney and Bow-
ral, N.S.W. . ,
Ten years ago an Australian worked a
Japanese for the first time on 10 metres, lhe
stations were VKSHG and J2BY.
The Victorians responsible for the
W.I.A. publication “Amateur Radio”
have made a first-rate job of recasting
the paper. “Amateur Radio ’ is posted.
It always contains news of the inter-State
doings of the various u.-h.-f. sections.
Amateur radio was officially repre-
sented at the farewell luncheon in Sydney
to Jim Malone, for many years chief R.I.
and now deputy P.M.G. for Queensland,
by VK2TI. Other amateurs present were
VKs 2RA, 2NO and 2AFJ.
VK2NO.
The Question Box.
Having several two-volt battery valves on
hand, including types 34, 32 and 30, I intend
making up a short-wave portable to cover
waves between 15 and 90 metres. A circuit
diagram for such a receiver is wanted, with
dry-cell operation throughout. —801.
The circuit diagram is of a four-valve receiver
using a 34 as untuned R.F. amplifier, 32 screen-
grid detector, 32 high-gain audio amplifier, and
30 output valve for headphones. Note that the
filaments are wired in series-parallel and the
connections of grid returns are such that, for
the first audio stage and output valve, advan-
tage is taken of a drop of 2.25 volts across
the filament in each of these two instances.
Filament supply is from a 4.5-volt battery, and
for limited periods of operation three or four
4.5 grid bias batteries can be connected in
parallel. With 135 volts of light-duty batteries
for plate supply, the lot can be housed with
the receiver in the carrying case. The six-volt
biasing battery on the output valve, plus the
2.25-volts filament drop, gives 8.25 volts, near
enough to the prescribed nine volts. Note that
the plate supply to the R.F. valve is fed
through the detector-grid coil. The usual short-
wave coil data will apply to the detector, using
a ,00014mfd. tuning condenser.


BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
'bocfors soy your virility and vig-
our depend greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. B21 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extroct. Will: definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAY.
T. J O N E S £ CO.
CHEMIST...314 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
j
THE FLYING COLUMN
Learning to Fly.
Flying must be learned “from the
ground up.”
The high percentage of eliminations
trom Air Force training selections is be-
cause of the type of flying to be done. Air
Force pilots are required to fly extremely
fast machines, perform aerobatics in dog-
fights, take part in high-speed attacks at
low altitudes, and fly in formation for
long periods. Because candidates are
eliminated it does not follow that they
would fail in civil aviation. The stand-
ards are different. .
In learning to fly privately, you can
choose your instructor, and you need
only learn as far as you feel safe in going.
Take a trial flight and then decide. If
in you undergo a medical test for
your “A” license, after which you begin
training at once. You commence with
straight flying, then slow turns, both
climbing and gliding, followed by take-
offs, then approaches to aerodrome, after
which you make the landings, then ap-
proaches from various altitudes.
You are recommended to take lessons
of about 20 minutes each every few days.
Depending on your capabilities, about
five hours of dual training should make
you right for your first solo —once around
the ’drome and land.
Before the license test it is necessary
to complete a minimum of three hours’
solo, with a total of not less than ten fly-
ing hours altogether. When the 'in-
structor thinks you’re up to standard the
control officer from the control tower
watches you make your circuits and ap-
proaches to the ’drome from 500 ft., with
the engine on, and one without the engine
on from 2000 ft. If you have passed in
this, questions on air rules and general
regulations are asked. All going well,
you become an “A” ticket-holder, per-
mitting you to fly solo within three miles
of the aerodrome without passengers.
The next step is the “A” advance,
which permits the carrying of passengers.
To reach this stage you must con-
tinue with dual instruction for vertical
turns (with and without motor), side
Well-known cyclists plan a day’s fun aloft at Kingsford-Smith ’drome, Sydney.
They are: Stan Steen and Stan Parsons (holding map), Duncan Gray and pilot
Lionel Watson, who on ground is Bennett and Wood’s advertising chief.
slips right and left, side-slip landings,
spins (also by misuse of controls, with
and without motor), stall turns, loops,
figure eights, forced landings and a dual
and solo crosscountry flight of not less
than 50 miles. Each of the manoeuvres
mentioned must be practised solo, and
when mastered is checked over by an
instructor who, if satisfied, and if you
have completed 25 hours’ solo, endorses
your “A” certificate for carrying pas-
sengers.
Following the “A” advance, a total of
60 hours will permit you to sit for the
“B” commercial theory exam., covering
air legislation, meteorology, navigation
and engineering. The practical side of
the exam, includes blind flying, night
flying and navigation tests. Before the
certificate comes into force 100 hours’
solo must be completed.
The cost of dual training is approxi-
mately £3 per hour, and of solo flying
£2 per hour, which, for the possibilities
it holds, makes flying a less costly career
than most other professions. But to go
right through requires full-time study.
State your case clearly to some reput-
able flying club —how much you would
be prepared to spend, what type of flying
you want to do, whether private, com-
mercial or mail service, and what time
you could devote. It’s well worth while.
Lionel Watson, Pilot.
“D.8.K.”: That press report of a
mild panic at Jervis Bay, N.S.W., when
a practice bomb accidentally fell on to
a slipway from the bomb-rack of an
amphibian has had parallels, some with
disastrous results. On the R.N.A.S.
Squadron with which I served in the
Eastern Med. in 1918, my job was that
of armorer. D.H.9 dawn patrols on
submarine hunts generally took two 65-
pounders in the wing-racks and a blunt-
nosed 230-pounder under the fuselage.
If no sub. was spotted the first job of
the dufy armorer when a machine re-
turned was to collect the safety pins
from the observer and put them in the
bombs. One man could lift down a 65-'
pounder from the rack with comparative
ease, but the 230-pounder was another
matter. One morning, nobody else being
handy, I asked an engineer-mechanic to
lend a hand. “No fear,” he said, “I’m
not touching those things— not my job.”
Pin in place, I leaned over in the back
cockpit and pulled the release lever, the
bomb thudding heavily with the drop
of three feet or so to the soil. The
engineer took one look after hearing the
thud and his feet went across the ’drome
like a kid’s stick along palings. Many
was the bomb that armorers removed
from racks in such fashion in those days.
Theoretically and practically, the deto-
nator in the exploder was safe with the
pin inserted, but the game was played
once too often on a squadron in Mace-
donia. An armorer in a hurry did
the same thing we had done so often —
two machines and four men were miss-
ing a moment later.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: The first air corps in
the world was formed in France in
1793 by a citizen soldier, Jourdain. His
equipment consisted of balloons, and his
air force was recruited from the
engineers. The first use made of the
outfit was during the siege of Mentz.
The balloons were sent up. The
engineers were armed with darts and bits
of paper of several colors. They spied
on the enemy and fired down their dis-
positions in code. After Mentz, this pro-
cedure resulted in the fall of the fortress
of Ehrenbreitstein. The first open battle
in which it was used was Fleur us (June
26, 1794) on the plains of Belgium, next
door to Ligny, and the aeronauts from
their eerie must have been able to see
the whole of the world’s bloodiest ground
from Mons to Waterloo. Then the
game was tried on General Latour, with
his Austrians. He protested loudly at the
new methods of war. But the French
revolutionary soldiers knew nothing of
the rules of war. That was the year they
refused to give British officers leave
passes through their lines so that they
could go home for Christmas.
* * * *
“V.E.”: Britain’s air export lists of
fighting ’planes are a little bewildering.
While Australia is waiting for Lockheed
Hudsons and is building Wirraways,
Britain has been selling some of
its best fighters and bombers to at
least a dozen foreign countries, as well as
other Dominions. Belgium, Canada,
Yugoslavia and S. Africa all have the
Hawker Hurricane, the eight-gun fighter
The Short-Sunderland four-engined flying-boat is used for an important
section of the marine activities of the Royal Air Force. It is a combatant
version of Imperial Airways flying-boats. A number of Short-Sunderlands
will shortly be' taken over by the R.A.A.F.
which has flown at over 400 m.p.h. S.
Africa, Finland, Turkey have the new
fast Blenheim bombers, from which will
be developed the Beaufort that is to
be built in Australia. Portugal and Nor-
way have Gloster Gladiators, the fastest
biplane fighters ever built for the R.A.F.
Three Hampden bombers were sold to
Sweden recently, and flew non-stop to
Stockholm, 1100 miles, under reduced
power, in five hours. But Australia and
Greece so far have been favored only
with Ansons.
* * * *
It is suggested that Hawker Hurricanes
will follow Bristol Beauforts into pro-
duction in the Commonwealth. With
Short Sunderlands, Blenheims, Hudsons
and Hurricanes in action, the Common-
wealth will have a modern air force.
* * * *
Lockheed’s latest bomber has flown
from Los Angeles to New York, about
2400 miles, in just over seven hours.
* * * #
There is talk of the new Douglas D.C.4
being placed on Australian air runs, but
it will be an expensive business. No
orders have yet been placed by U.S.A.
companies for the type. The D.C.3,
which is in use on inter-capital runs
here, costs $llO,OOO in U.S.A., but the
price of the four-engined jobs will be
between $400,000 and $500,000, which
probably means a minimum of £150,000
Australian. All our aerodromes would
need to be enlarged to carry D.C.4’s.
* * * *
The new Short Sunderland flying battle-
ships which Australia should see within
the next three months—a squadron has
been at Singapore for some time —are
four tons heavier than the Empire flying-
boats, have a wing span of 112 ft., carry
a crew of eight, bombs and seven guns.
Their top speed is 210 m.p.h. At 6250
feet they can cruise from Australia to
Singapore or from New Guinea to Hong
Kong non-stop. They will at first be
stationed at Port Moresby after they
have visited the south.
* * *
“Prop II”: In U.S.A. companies which
have always concentrated on commercial
passenger ’planes are now building for
the private buyer of small means. Stin-
son, for instance, is turning out a new
Reliant and the “105.” The Reliant has
dual wheel control, can land in 250 feet,
and its rear seat has accommodation for
three passengers. The “105,” which is
sold on terms of one-third down for
2995 dollars, has slots, flaps and hydraulic
brakes, cruises at 105 m.p.h., and has a
petrol consumption of 25 m.p.g. These
are “luxury” types. Cubs can be bought
from 1250 dollars up to 2000 dollars.
They carry all normal instruments,
hydraulic brakes, cabin heaters, dash-
board carburettor control, 42-inch seats,
baggage compartments and 16-gallon
tanks. When Florida held an “aerocade”
the other day, 700 fliers turned up in
machines which rarely exceeded 100
m.p.h. in speed. Over 25 per cent, of the
fliers were girls, and some of the boys
were only 17.
* * * *
Aien-As’: The report that Imperial
Airways has found it necessary to make
drastic reduction in passenger accommo-
dation on Empire air routes comes as a
surprise. Mail matter carried increased
from 1,400,0001 b. in the first six months
of last year to 2,116,0001 b. in the same
period of 1939. All ordinary mail from
Britain to the Commonwealth comes by
Imperial Airways service. At the Sydney
end, Hudson Fysh, of Q.E.A., says that
passenger bookings to Europe are un-
altered. It is unlikely that an airways
concern such as Imperial will be re-
stricted in any way for long.
* * * *
“P.A.A.”: The new Yankee Clippers
which are to be put on the Atlantic and
M.L. service are double-deckers carrying
74 passengers. Their size may be judged
from the fact that their central alleyway
is 85ft. long. There are five main com-
partments, including sleeping-rooms on
the lower deck, with a dining-room
which would do credit to a country
hotel, a bar and a bridal suite. They
expect to leave New York at 10.30 a.m.
on the trans-ocean voyage of 3417 miles.
The Clipper will make calls in New
Brunswick (Canada), Botwood in New-
foundland and Foynes in Eire, and will
deposit her passengers at Southampton
at 10.30 a.m. the following day. The
actual hop across the Atlantic will
begin at 7 p.m., half an hour before a
full-course dinner is served, and the
Foynes (Eire) landing will be made at
7.30 a.m.
Consolidated —the firm which built the
Guba in which P. G. Taylor made his
Indian Ocean crossing—has planned a
boat to carry 100 passengers ; the dining-
room will hold 18 people at a time.
Boeing also has a 100-passenger boat
on the draftsman’s table ; so has Sikorsky
—both these leviathans are planned fox
six engines. But the Seversky company
has them all beaten. Its newest, already
designed, will have two fuselages. Its
wing span will be 250 ft. It will have
eight liquid-cooled engines—16,000 h.p.
in all. The range will be 5000 miles.
It is designed to carry a payload of
43,0001 b. Its dining-room will seat 50 ;
the passenger complement will be 120,
and the promenade decks will accom-
modate 60 people. It’s to be made of
shot-welded stainless steel throughout.
3? * #
“Zedo”: Flying has ceased to be
purely a young man’s game. The oldest
pilots in Australian service are not far
off their half-century; but there are
many older men flying their own ’planes.
When English pressmen recently visited
Rome for the first conference of aero-
nautical journalists, they were piloted
in an S.Bl tri-motor Savoia bomber by
the veteran knight Benito Mussolini —
yes, he’s a G.C.B. all right. Mussolini
was Minister of Aviation from 1926 to
1929, learned to fly as a preliminary,
and had his sons follow in his footsteps.


ĵ
V
\Wm
r
L . fcg
%
m
';d*
;: '
Jo}f^
sms
■i'.V
" 5*
dairyiarmers
OBTAIN ,•
PROFIT -
Four carefully controlled tests were conducted to determine the actual return obtained from
feeding Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal. Each test was conducted as follows:
Cows in milk for less than six months were selected and divided into two groups. Bot
groups were as even as possible in production and lactation period, and were treated in
exactly the same way, except that the cows in only one group were fed Meggitt s.
Later a comparison of the production of the two groups was made, to show the increase
obtained from the use of Meggitt s. ' . .
Here are the results. Commercial butter is calculated at 12 3 d. per lb., and skim milk at
fd. per gallon. .
j
Estate of the Late Norman Brett,
Esq., Meadow View StHd, Pelican
Island.
5 Cows Fed
Meggitt’s.
Cows Not Fed
Meggitt’s.
Production Before .Feeding:
92.491 b. fat per
month.
TC.Oolb. . fat
. month.
per
Production AH or Feeding:
100.81 b.. . ' fat per
, , month. •
Ration' .for 5 .cows,'
. -71 b.. • Meggitt’s'
per clay.
61.141 b. fat' per
month.
Value of increased production, including skim
milk, £l/15/0.38 = £l6/18/5 per ton
NOTE: In
- -of Meggitt’s fed.
this test both groups received an
adequate bulk of roughage.
ĵ
G. Pund, Bellembopinni, Macleay
River.
4 Cows Fed
Meggitt’s.
4 Cows Not I’etL
Meggitt’s.
'Production Before Feeding:
109.561 b. fat per
month.
111.91 b. fat
month.
per
Production After Feeding:
102.011 b. fat ' per
montli.
Ration for 4 cows,
711 b. Meggitt’s
per ’ day.
79.21 b. fat per
month.
Value of increased production, including
skim milk, = £l4/5/3 per
ton "of Meggitt’s fed.
NOTE: Cows apparently had adequate roughage,
but as it was spread in paddocks, some cows may
not have received their full quantity.
u .
C. Brown, Raleigh.
7 Cows Feci
Meggitt’s.
7 Cows' Not Cert
- MeggitCs.-
Production Before ; Feeding:
153. :78.1b. fat
■month.
149.191 b. fat
1 month.'
per
Production After Feeding: .
155.581b.* .fat per
month:
Ration ‘l'or 7 cows,"
-5m.. Meggitt’s
per day. .
Value o'f increased
132.061 b. fat per
month.,
production, including
skim milk,' .£l/5/11.29 = , £l5/14/3 t
’ per ton of. Meggitt’s fed;
NOTE: Insufficient roughage fed.; Results would
have been even better had an adequate bulk of
corn, etc., been available.
j
R. B. S. Ide, Coff’s Harbour
5 Cows Fed
Megrgitt’s.
Cows Jfot Fed
Meggitt’s.
Production Before Feeding:
86.851 b; fat
month.
per
87.991 b. fat
month.
per
Production After Feeding:
100.81 b. fat per
month.
Ration for 5 cows,
71b. Meggitfs
per day.
811 b. fat per
month.
Value of increased production,' including
- skim milk, £17.8/0$ = £l3/7/3 per ton
of Meggitt’s fed. .
NOTE: Inadequate roughage available. Had it
been possible to supply a full feed of roughage,
returns would undoubtedly have been greater.
AVERAGE RETURN
FOR THE FOUR GROUPS
£l5/1/4
PER TON OF
MEGGITT'S FED
These figures are calculated on butterfat basis. On yields
given in these tests Dairy Farmers receiving 1/- per gallon
for milk would obtain a return of approximately £l9
per ton.
ĵ
-V.
<*>
*1
0
% V
meggh\y*
AUSTRO
THESE ADDITIONAL BENEFITS!
If the actual return from feeding had only been sufficient to pay for the cost
of the Meggitt’s'used in these tests, the result would still have been highly
profitable—-because the cows fed Meggitt’s are now in very much better
condition arid on higher production than the other cows. The fed cows will
therefore produce very much more satisfactorily when spring pastures become
available, after handfeeding is finished.
This advantage is the most important source of profit from feeding Meggitt’s
Linseed Oil Meal.
You can obtain similar results. A few weeks’ feeding will convince you that
Meggitt’s can give you an immediate increase in profits.
For months after the feeding period has ended,-the improved production and
better health and condition of your stock will continue to pay you dividends.
LINSEED OIL MEAL
Meggitt, Ltd., Head Office, 67 York St.,
Sydney. Box 1555 E, G.P.0., Sydney.
Works: Parramatta, Melbourne, Adelaide.
ADVISORY DEPARTMENT.
Write to Meggitt, Ltd., for free
ration advice. Enclose particulars
of • pasture conditions, feed, etc.


The Kicbardson Chain Hotel
m
} ■'
m
■ i
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite liaiHvay Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
'Phone: M 4 14 1 (10 lines).
ULU, £>yY^cL '
zh'- A*t,
tC^d
f ~
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lamb Export.
Ghanam”: Seasonal conditions were
reflected in the meat export trade for the
year ended June 30. Only 985,000 sheep
were exported from N.S.W., as against
1,748,000 during the previous term. Lamb
exports fell from 2,251,000 to 1,980,000,
but this gives little clue to the true export
figures “owing to the high percentage of
rejections and the practice of some
operators of transfering large numbers of
carcasses which have been passed for ex-
port into local channels.”
The Meat Board report says:
Except in the latter portion of the
1938-39 season (May and June) the general
standard of quality of N.S.W. sheep and
lambs was poor, and the usual difficulties
jn carrying out standardised grading were
encountered.
Queensland showed an increase in lamb
numbers “submitted”—to 76,377—and in
mutton figures a 17 p.c. decline to
208,000, but quality of lambs showed
improvement, and there was no ground
for adverse criticism of the grading.
S. Australian lamb figures jumped from
401,815 to 696,000. The success of the
industry there is indicated by the recent
rush of S Africans to buy S. Australian
British-breed rams. Again, the figures
are not a true measure of actual export,
because large numbers of S.A. export
lambs are handled from Victoria. S.A.,
of course, was particularly favored by the
season, but there is no doubt that S. Aus-
tralians are on the right track—the board
declares that little fault can be found
either with grading or quality.
Victoria, the biggest lamb-exporting
State, suffered from drought. Numbers fell
from 3,409,424 to 2,888,758. Considering
the weather, the showing was excellent all
round, though there was a bad falling off
in quality after November.
The manner in which the sheep in
general weathered the season leads the
board to remark on the obvious
superiority of ewes of chiefly merino
blood over the long-woolled breeds.
Tasmania’s exports are not large, but
the 57,124 lambs graded were double the
number in the previous year. Growers
have difficulty in keeping their weights
down to expoi requirements, but some-
thing might be done about this with a
little experimenting with ewe types. At
the same time, Tasmanian lambs are uni-
form and choice quality, and there is a
large market for them at high prices.
Grading is easy.
Westralia offers the best example
of what can be done with lamb-
breeding. A decade ago the idea that
that State could develop such a trade
might have appeared laughable. Last
year exports increased by 100,000 to
378,000. The board reports that a slightly
large number of carcasses inclined to be
leggy were included in the second and
third grades, and that this is “possibly due
to the larger number of lambs treated
and the wider areas from which they
come.” It might have added that much
of the development has been done with
ewes not entirely suitable to the pro-
duction of export lamb, and noted the
impossibility of determining the ram-
type requirements of some districts
without much greater experience than
can be obtained in two or three seasons.
But
The standards of quality maintained in
the W.A. works were quite satisfactory and
left little or no cause for complaint on the
part of the buyers.
Wheatgrowers on marginal areas in all
parts of Australia might well take the
W.A. and S.A. experiences to heart.
It must be remembered that the over-
seas lamb market is far from unlimited
and fast approaching saturation point.
Prices will be down in the present season
in consonance with increased supply, and
“ Careful, Ma, in case it’s catchin!”
British restrictions must always be' kept
in mind. The ideal, therefore, is smaller
and better carcasses. Australian first
quality sells about Id. per pound below
N.Z. first quality on Smithfield. And
every year it becomes , more necessary
to improve our shipments.
Sheep Sales and Show in Melbourne.
“J. Want”: In spite of the rise.in wool,
prices at Melbourne stud ram sales
were lower than last year. John Taylor,
Winton (Tas.), scored the highest for a
merino ram—22o guineas. It carried a
heavy superfine fleece, and Melbourne
“Argus” remarked that it was “nothing
less than a tragedy that studmasters
with a limited market in Australia should
be debarred the S. African market for
this type of animal.”
Where the tragedy does lie is that many
districts which are capable of growing
superfine wool do not make the effort to
increase their carrying capacity and de-
velop the demand for the type to such
an extent that the business should bene-
fit Australia instead of S’Africa.
Obviously, if. the S’Africans cannot
supply, there is only one source from
which supers could possibly come.
At the show, in conjunction with
which the sales were held, J. F. Guthrie
put up a magnificent exhibit of Corrie-
dales, and lost only one point in the
judging of all his classes. He has won
every Corriedale trophy at Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide and Perth, and is to
the breed now what Robert Clark was
to the Shorthorns a generation ago.
All the leading British breeds sold
well, and there was a heavy demand
from W.A. The stock, however, lacked
uniformity. A Polwarth ram sold for
50 guineas.
Wool and* the U.S.A.
J. F. Brett, a well-known
Queensland businessman who has just
returned from a world tour, says that,
provided the 34 cents duty on Australian
wool which rules in U.S.A. can be re-
moved or reduced, there is an “enormous
market” for Australian wool in Uncie
Sam’s country. The effect of the duty
has been to protect synthetic products
rather than wool, and he thinks that, with
the additional lever which the Common-
wealth has in the fact that the U.S.A.’s
favorable trade balance with us was
60,109,000 dollars last year, it should be
possible to negotiate a trade agreement.
U.S.A. has only 54,000,000 sheep and
Australia 110,000,000. Last year Uncle
Sam produced 435,000,0001 b. of wool and
imported 23,623,0001 b., of which Aus-
tralia contributed about 5,000,0001 b.
American wool comes mainly from the
western States, and the sheep are chiefly
based on the merino. Fleece wools are
mostly crossbred; nowhere does the
U.S.A. produce the fine merino types
suitable for feminine apparel which can
be grown in abundance here.
Canada, too, offers a growing market.
The bulk of her wool comes from the
U.K., scoured or as worsted tops, and a
great deal more certainly could be
bought from Australia. Last year—to
March 31, 1938—direct wool imports
trom Australia were worth only 3,000,000
bn „ the f rade balance was
20,251,000 dollars in Canada’s favor
Canada has only 3,500,000 sheep.
There is a joint interest between Aus-
tralian and U.S.A. sheepbreeders; and
a joint effort to see some of the substi-
tutes flooding the country displaced by
Australian and other British Dominion
wool and a general expansion brought
about in the usage of crossbred wools
would be worth while.
Polled Merino Rams.
“Valerin”: The hornless merino rams
advocated by a few breeders will never
meet with general approval. It is claimed
for them that the heads are more easily
shorn and less susceptible to fly attack,
but this would apply only to animals
whose horns are clamped to their jaws—-
they should have their throats cut,
It has never been proved that the
weight of the horns has any harmful
effect on the condition of the sheep. In
fact, all the evidence is that an animal
suffers for the loss of horn. In a merino
ram the horn is a reliable indication of
character and masculinity—or otherwise
—and the corrugations on them a guide
to the type of wool the animal grows.
Gheesy Gland.
“Observer”: Condobolin (N.S.W.)
stock inspector reports mortality in lambs
from caseous lymphadenitis (cheesy
gland), a condition mainly affecting
grown sheep.
A few years ago U.K. authorities ob-
jected to the export'of infected carcasses.
The disorder has continued fairly preva-
lent.
To safeguard lambs, especially at this
season, drop the marked lambs into a
grass paddock instead of on to dusty
ground. Keep them away from the
yards. Always shear young sheep first.
{Continued, on next page.)


AFTER-STOCKTAKING
BARGAINS
Box Calf OXFORDS
144
29/6
REDUCED
TO
22/6
Good quality selected Black Box Calf Oxford Shoes now selling at.' 22/6.
Made with a broad round toe and strong welted sole. Stocked in full and
half sizes.
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street,
224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY .”
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
m
i
:: g ' E '
m
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
I
Fn
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
JOHN DANKS & SON Ptj. Ltd.
( Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY
’Phone: CB3BO.
’Phone: M 6505.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A VILF-CUXTllMil' HAM IT AKy HYSTbM Al'h’KtiV Vb n\ HOARD Oh UKALTB
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
ijirmin
■
' i.
At all ages, cull any with visible enlarged
glands.
If care is taken in marking and shear-
ing, the incidence of the disease can be
cut down considerably. Observe cleanli-
ness in yards and shed, minimise cutting
of the skin, and don’t shear too close.
Foxes.
“Valerin”: Until skin values improve
100 p.c., plans for checking foxes aren’t
worth while.
As for netting-in lambing paddocks (B.
2 / 8 / ’39), apart from the prohibitive cost,
I have yet to see the fence that will keep
Reynard out. The best one can do is to
clear up all cover, and that includes
standing hollow trees—foxes are good
climbers. They cannot be handled like
rabbits. They travel long distances to
slaughter lambs and poultry, and slink
home before daylight.
Several N.S.W. P.P. Boards advocate
a boaus for foxskins. It might be worth
a trial.
T.B. and Stud Cattle.
“Mookau”: It was suggested at a
recent meeting of the Polled Shorthorn
Society (N.S.W.) that cattle should be
group-tested for t.b. before exhibition at
metropolitan shows. The cost is so low
that it would be worth while to exhibit
animals to have them tested and receive
clear certificates.
It costs £5 14s. to test ten animals ;
20 can be tested for £6 95., 30 for £7 195.,
40 for £9 95., 50 for £lO 195., 60 for £l2
9d. and 100 for £lB 95., not including
travelling expenses. A clear certificate
placing animals beyond suspicion of
tuber, for from 4s. to 6s. a head is worth
anybody’s while.
There is, of course, controversy as to
how much infection actually matters. If
it matters to nobody else it affects the
breeder. A carrier, showing no signs of
serious infection itself, may transmit weak
chests and poor constitutions to the next
generation. One tuberous cow or bull in
a large herd, bred into the leading pedi-
grees, might cause ruin to a whole breed-
ing line.
Anybody who has made a close study
of pedigrees of leading Shorthorns
over a Long period will notice that
lines occasionally wilt and die out
suddenly. I strongly suspect that this
is often due to tuber, concentration in
families which have been “weaxened b>
close breeding—normally clean strength
bred to clean strength should produce
more clean strength. Unfortunately it
does not produce resistance to disease.
Too closely breed a family which is com-
pletely healthy and free from inoculation
germs, and the first introduction of out-
side blood with the slightest taint has
fatal results..
If I had a cattle stud, beef or dairy, I
wouldn’t have an animal in it that was
not tubercle-tested.
“High” Rice Yields.
“A.A.D.”: The Australian rice crop,
all of it grown on the Murrumbidgee irri-
gation areas, will this season yield a
surplus for export. About 52,000 tons
is expected from 23,437 acres (a limit
of 80 acres to individual growers), and
this despite heat-waves, shortage of irri-
gation water from Burrinjuck and flood
rains at the critical period. Previous
record was 43,171 tons in 1937.
The expected average yield of 112
bushels (2.2 tons) per acre compares with
the previous highest, 107.39, in 1934, and
an average of 89.5 over the last ten years.
Australia has the highest average yield
of any ricegrowing country in the world,
and the rise in the last four years is
mainly due to the increasing use of high-
yielding strains produced by the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture.
Australia needs 23,500 to 25,000 tons,
and seed requirements are 1100 tons,
leaving an exportable surplus of moie
than 25,000 tons, which probably will re-
turn £3 to £4 less than the fixed home
price of £ll.
“X.T.”: There is a better demand for
sheep, and particularly store sheep, every-
where. The market is particularly bright
in Queensland. Southern buyers have
contributed to a substantial rise in prices.
In Central Queensland young wethers
have improved from 7s. 6d. to 9s. and
over, and in the south-west, where the
southerners are mostly operating, 10s. is
common and up to 12s. has been paid.
Prices will obviously go higher. Full-
woolled wethers have brought up to 225.
Rain over wide pastoral areas has im-
proved prospects considerably.
“Ghanam”: N. S. Wales wool clip
this season will show an increase of about
10 p.c. Early clips already in Sydney
stores are of broader quality and show
better growth and length. Queensland
will shear over 20,000,000 sheep, N. S.
Wales around 49,000,000, Victoria
18,000,000, S.A. 9,000,000, W.A.
8,500.000 and Tasmania 2,500,000. Tops
prices are steady in Bradford, but Ant-
werp futures show an upward trend for
the late months of this year and the early
months of 1940.
“G.L.H.”: In spite of what “Dam-
ram” (B. 5/5/’39) says, jetting won’t keep
wrinkly sheep free from flies for a fort-
night. I have tried it with full-strength
mixture. Further, though I’ve had 35
years’ experience, I have yet to see a
wrinkly sheep cut more wool than a
plain sheep. They cut more grease.
“Yeno Ham”: W. Brooks, of Seaham
(N.S.W.), two years ago subdivided his
paddocks into two-acre to five-acre lots, put
a rotary hoe through the paspalum, and
cut the surface soil to a fine tilth. Then
scwt. of lime per acre went in ahead of
a mixture of sub. clover and Wimmera
rye (which suits the light loam), with
2cwt. of super, per acre. Annual top-
dressing with super, is at the same rate.
Now there is almost 100 acres of im-
proved grassland. The rye with the sub.
is strong and vigorous, and the heavy
topdressing has stimulated the growth of
white, ball and suckling clovers already
existent in the sward but lacking develop-
ment because of low soil fertility.
Lucerne was added to the sub. clover
and Wimmera sown on a paddock
cropped continuously for 40 years, and
the super, topdressing has produced a
bulk of feed too heavy for cattle to cope
with in the flush season. Meadow hay
is made from the surplus. There is a
noticeable increase in yields when the
grade Jerseys go on the improved areas.
He rugs his best producers, and stall-
feeds all cows from March until Sep-
tember inclusive. The ration is a mix-
lure of 241 b. of maize silage, bran and
pollard for each cow daily.
“Ovis”: To educate Australians on
the needs of the U.K.. market, the Aus-
tralian Meat Board has decided to order
models of standard lambs and pigs. The
beef model was ordered by the Argen-
tine, and the lamb model is from a Tas-
manian carcass sent to Smithfield. 1
advocated this system in the M.O.L. page
a long time ago. Denmark has it in
relation to pigs, and uses silver replicas
of the models as competition prizes.
“Porcine”: Liquid concentrated butter-
milk, a new by-product of Norco’s fac-
tory, is being widely sold for pig feed in
non-dairying districts. A Grenfell stud-
breeder who pays 847 miles rail freight
says that extra cost is not prohibitive.
“A.A.D.”: The use of fertilisers has a
large bearing on potato yields. It has
been found in N.S.W. that three parts
super, and one of sulphate of ammonia,
at the rate of four to five tons an acre,
is most efficient for general use. A
heavier dressing may be used in coastal
plateau districts of high rainfall. Some
growers in the warmer tablelands cut
the application down one-half, but
economy does not always pay. A series
of small experimental plots on typical
soil pays on a potato farm. In Tasmania
lOcwt. per acre of complete fertiliser
(super., sulphate and potash) is claimed to
give profitable maximum yields under
heavy rainfall conditions.
“Yeno Ham”: In March of this year
S. O. Masters sowed three acres at Mor-
peth (N.S.W.) with a mixture of 121 b.
of Italian rye grass and 31b. of red clover.
The pasture was ready for grazing within
three* weeks. Milk yields when the cows
are grazed on the rye-clover pasture are
higher than when wheat or green oats
are used, according to Masters. The
sward is dense, and a heavy body of
feed is available. Italian rye-red clover
mixture is recommended for temporary
pastures, giving two years of good graz-
ing. Best results are obtained when pad-
docks are small and the pasture harrow
is used immediately after grazing. Soil
fertility is stepped up by the pasture,
which does best when topdressed with
super. Other crops grown in a system
of rotation show the benefit of the in-
creased fertility. Sowing early in March
is best, as the pasture will then provide
winter feed.
“K.Mc.”: The N.S.W. Government
has refused to assist individual shires to
eradicate noxious weeds. Three or more
shires must group to form a “county
council,” which is subsidised £ for £. The
P.P. Boards, each of which embraces
about three shires, and which are under
the administration of the Agricultural
Department, should be given control of
the job.
“Mulgo”: Tomato-growing on a mar-
keting scale commenced in the N.S.W.
mid-coastal districts only about 10 years
ago. Now a strip 70 miles long by 10
miles wide, between Woolgoolga and
Macksville, is devoted almost solely
to tomatoes, and gross returns in some
cases are over £lOOO an acre. That looks
good ; but the tomato is a troublesome
crop ; it is subject to many pests and
diseases, must be constantly tended, have
the right aspect and adequate water for
irrigation. Spraying material and spray-
ing cost up to £l3O an acre ; planting,
staking, topdressing, picking and casing
are also costly items. Even then the loss
through insects is estimated at 25 per
cent. Best rewards are gained from early
crops. But the plants when young must
be protected from south winds with
strips of calico. Plants average about
8000 per acre with a stake to each, and
it requires thousands of yards of calico.
The total outlay is reckoned at £4OO an
acre.


()
////////um
sr
W.
8 8
—TX^ijamr
yw
HOME HOSPITALITY!
/
■m
M
Mi
M
r
m
■
m=
*
/ 1 :
K
m
*0
/
(
s
Sydney Bitter Ale satisfies more
tastes among men than any other
beer. Sydney Bitter Ale has all
those qualities that distinguish a
particularly rich brew—and hospi-
tality is expressed perfectly when
you say "Have a glass of Sydney
Bitter.”
TOOTH’S
SYDNEY BITTER
ALE
Always Keep a Few Bottles in the Home


SHORTHAND *
You will learn Dutton Shorthand completely in
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 w.p.m. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson • free without obligation.
DUTTON SHORTHAND (N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1644 P, Wellington, N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK*
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors—James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; VV H Han, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Urn. A. Jolly, Esq C.M.U.
Prviriiai M \nagi*:ii —D. S. hOUHKS. , .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne.Sydnej; andl U 4 Branches and Becavug
•flees throughout Queensland and Northern Ri Vers..New&oug d , *
,on though the- leading , ,„ r _
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage, Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Banker*: The Union.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Typist, Sydney, used to handling authors’
manuscripts, seeks work; neat and accurate,
moderate charges.—4380.
Lady, English, travelled, organising and
lecturing exp., seeks position in Sydney or
other Australian capital city.—4330.
Respectable man, clean, active, temperate,
exp. kitchen, house, garden, wants casual or
full-time work. Refs. —4316.
Lift-driver, middle-aged, wants position in
Sydney. Refs. —4379.
Words of recitation “The Whitest Man I
Know.” —4078.
To buy or borrow Studies in Australian
Crimes (two vols.), by Fitzgerald, copy of the
“Steering Wheel and Society,” May, 1933, and
copy of the same magazine containing refer-
ences to the Persses of Tabragalba (Q.) and
the Collinses of Nindooimbah (Q.); also a
good book on legends of the Australian
a borigines .—43 58.
To buy History of 1th A.L.H. Regt., A.I.F.,
by J. D. Richardson. —4368.
To buy Barron Field’s First Fruits of Aus-
tralian Poetry. —4317.
To buy copies of the “Saturday Evening
Post” prior to April, 1936. Quote vols. and
numbers, with price.—4315.
Words of verse entitled “Brannigan,” be-
ginning “Brannigan was a single man and the
things he said were strange.”—4352.
Words of verse “The Kerrigan Boys.”—4319.
Seat in car Melbourne to Brisbane and return.
—4258.
Information Sought.
Somebody has said that he attributes his
longevity to the study of “Yoga.” What is
“Yoga"?— 4354.
“Yoga” is the Indian name applied to the
fourth of the six systems of Hindu philosophy,
and sometimes to any form of ascetic practice
or mortification. It acknowledges Ishvara, or
a supreme being. The reputed author is Patan-
jali, who teaches the means by which the
human soul may attain perfect union with the
Supreme Soul. The actual practice frequently
takes the form of respiratory exercises and sell-
hypnotism. The name has been adopted by
Western theosophists, whose “yoga’ corre-
sponds in many ways with the cult of contem-
plation employed by some Christian ascetics
or mystics.
* * * *
/ am 79; heart, lungs, kidneys apparently
sound; no domestic or financial worries, But,
naturally no doubt, / am always tired, often
feeling that I am approaching the passing-out
stage. Could you recommend a good tonic or
suggest a food diet which might relieve the
tired feeling? I walk three miles a day.—
4152.
As a tonic, nux vomica 10 minims, cafieine
citrate two grains, spirits of chloroform five
minims, elixir of calisaya half a drachm, in-
fusion of gentian half an ounce. Take three
times daily before meals. Diet should not in-
clude too much cooked meat, but liberal sup-
plies of milk, cream, butter, eggs, vegetables
and fruits. Poultry and fish are useful foods.
Alcohol at bedtime is conducive to sleep. Exer-
cise (walking) should not be sufficient to cause
fatigue.
* * * *
(1) A brief outline of the evolution of
photography ? (2) When was the first photo-
graphic portrait made? —4361.
(1) In 1791 Wedgwood commenced a series
of experiments in “sun-printing” by placing
leaves, lace, etc., in close contact with a sheet
of paper coated with silver nitrate. After
exposing to the sun, the uncovered portions
darkened, leaving a white silhouette of the
object imprinted on the paper. These sun-prints
were not permanent. In the beginning of the
nineteenth century the Frenchman Niepce (1765-
1833) succeeded in producing a picture on bitu-
men which was non-fading. In December, 1829,
Niepce formed a partnership with Daguerre,
the outcome of which was the daguerrotype
process. After Niepce’s death in 1833 his son
Isodore entered into a new agreement with
Daguerre, who published details of the process
in 1839. (2) Prof. J. W. Draper is believed
to have made the first portrait in New York
in 1840 of his sister, Miss D. C. Draper.
* * * *
(1) What is a Pitot tube? (2) How does it
operate ?-— 4355. .
(1) It is an instrument for measuring the
velocity of water or air. (2) Invented by Henri
Pitot in 1730, it consists of a vertical tube
having a right-angled bend placed so as to
bring the open lower end directly opposite to
the flow of the fluid. The impact of the fluid
on this open end forces a column of liquid up
the vertical part of the tube, the height to
which it rises being a measure of the speed of
flow. Nearly all air-speed indicators for air-
craft use a Pitot tube carried on a wing-tip
or strut.
jj: * * *
What is a sun compass? —4318.
A compass which, when a flight is main-
tained on a given meridian (as evidenced by
the presence of an image of the sun on a frosted
plate provided for the purp9se), indicates true
north, a clockwork mechanism being used to
correct automatically for the change in the
sun’s hour angle. Usually, the compass con-
sists of a compass dial above which is mounted
on horizontal trunnions a clock in such a way
that when the instrument is set to the course
desired all the avigator need do is to keep the
sun’s image ever present on the frosted plate.
H: * * *
(1) What is the position of a man finding oil
in payable quantities on privately-owned land.
(2) What is the owner of the property entitled
to ? (3) What procedure would you advise the
finder and the owner of the land to take to
protect their interest in the event of oil being
struck ~4115.
(1) (2) and (3) Any person desiring to pros-
pect for oil on private land in N.S.W. should first
apply to the nearest mining warden for authority
to enter the land. Before granting the author-
ity the warden would assess the rent and com-
pensation payable by the applicant to the owner
of the land. In the event of oil being dis-
covered in payable quantities the holder of the
authority would be required to apply for a
lease of the land in terms of Part IV of the
Mining Act, 1906-1935. Any lease granted
would be subject to the payment by the lessee
to the owner of the land of a rental of £1 par
acre per annum in respect only of that portion
of the surface leased. In the event of the
mineral being reserved to the Crown, the lease
would provide for the payment by the lessee to
the Crown of a royalty of 1 p.c. of the value
of the oil won; in the event of the mineral not
being reserved to the Crown the lessee would
be required to pay to the Crown a royalty
of 1| P-c. of the gross value of oil won, and
the sum so paid, less one-ninth, would then be
payable by the Crown to the owner of the
mineral. Suggest that you obtain from Mines
Department, Sydney, copy of Guide to the
Mining Laws of N. S. Wales (price 4d.).
* * * *
(1) When and where was the play “Under
Fire” staged in Sydney ? (2) How long did it
run? (3) Names of principal actors? —4312.
(1) At the Criterion Theatre on Feb. 5,
1916. (2) Ten weeks. (3) Beatrice Holloway,
Emma Temple, Sylvia B-emner, Lizette Parkes,
Frank Harvey, Louis k oall, G. K.. Souper,
lan Maclaren, Robert Greig, Cyril Mackay and
Hugh Huntley.
* * <& *
(1) Are used Commonwealth Id. and 2d.
stamps of commercial value when sold in large
quantities? (2) Can the Commemorative issues
be sold under these conditions ? (3) Likely
buyers ? —4264.
(1) Dealers pay 6d. per thousand for these
stamps if removed from the envelopes. |d.,
Hd., 3d. and 4d. George VI. and 3d.,
4d. and sd. George V. fetch about 6d. per
hundred. (2) 2d. Commemoratives fetch about
ss. per thousand; 3d. Commemoratives, about
6s. per hundred. (3) Try A. F. K.ulner, Nelson
Bay (N.S.W.), and Laseron, 21 Royal-arcade,
Sydney.
* * * *
In what numbers of the “Motor Ship”
( London ) are the Dutch Diesel lugs Zwarte Zee
and Thames described? —4077.
Zwarte Zee, November, 1933, page 278. Can
find no record of lhames. The tug Cullamix,
which runs on the Thames, is described in the
September, 1938, issue.
* * * *
Who was Piers Plowman? —4181.
Piers Plowman is the title personage and
short title of the “Vision of Piers Piovman,"
an allegorical poem, in alliterative verse, written
about 1362, possibly by an author named Wil-
liam Langland, and revised and enlarged, prob-
ably by others, before 1400. It is in part a
satire on the religious and social evils of the
time. Piers, in the first version, typifies the
simple, pious English laborer. Another shorter
poem, “Piers Plowman’s Credo,” was written
in the same style about 1400.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning Helen de
Guerry Simpson, Australian author, with a
list of her publications ? —4193.
She is the daughter of the late E. P. Simpson,
of Sydney, was educated at Oxford University,
and has lived in England the greater part of
her life. Publications include Acquittal (1925),
The Baseless Fabric (1928), Cups, Wands and
Swords (1928), The Desolate House (1930),
Vantage Striker (1931), Boomerang (1932), The
Woman on the Beast (1933), Henry _ VIII.
(1934), Under Capricorn (1937), and, in col-
laboration with Clemence Dane, Enter Sir
John, Printer’s Devil and Re-enter Sir John.
* * * *
If the mean effective pressure exerted on the
24 in. diameter piston of a single-cylinder
double-acting steam engine is 80 lb. per sq. in.,
the length of the stroke 4ft., and if there are
60 strokes per minute, what horse-power will it
develop ? —4130.
To find the h.p. developed by a steam engine,
divide P L A N by 33,000, where P is the
mean effective pressure in pounds per sq. in. on
the piston; L, the length of the stroke, in feet;
A, the area of the piston, in sq. in.; and N,
the number of strokes. If the piston diameter
is 24in., its area will be 452 sq. in. Then,
80 X 4 X 452 X 60 equals 8,678,400, which,
divided by 33,000, gives 263 h.p.
* * * *
A Sydney sporting writer in a recent article
gave it as his opinion that a certain suggestion
would “receive short shift” at a meeting of the
sporting body concerned. Isn’t “shift” incor-
rect ?—-4294.
“Shift” is incorrect; the right word is
“shrift.” Here is the explanation of the term
as given by the Shorter Oxford Dictionary:
“ Short shrift, originally a brief space of time
allowed for a criminal to make his confession
before execution; hence, a brief respite; to
give short shrift to, to make short work of.”
* * * *
Composition of lacquer applied to brass
scientific instruments, such as microscopes, com-
passes, etc., and method of application ? —4278.
The lacquer is made by dissolving orange
shellac in methylated spirit and then straining
through filter paper, "the article to be treated
is first thoroughly cleaned by either graining
the surface by the application of a very fine
grain of emery or by buffing and polishing.
After cleaning it must be handled with clean
tissue paper, leather gloves, etc. The article is
warmed slightly and the lacquer applied quickly
and evenly with a small tiat sable orush. Atter
application, it is held in a warm oven for a
few minutes until the lacquer has set and then
left in the oven to dry. Ihe lacquer can be re-
moved by washing in methylated spirit.
* * * *
How many species of zebra are there, and
in what manner do they differ from each other ?
—4198.
There are three species, rapidly approaching
extinction. The true or mountain zebra {Equus,
or Hippotigris, zebra) of the mountains of Cape
Province, South Africa, has the body and
legs striped, but the belly plain. Burchell’s
zebra ( E. burchelli, after W. J. Burchell, an
English naturalist) is any of several varieties
inhabiting the plains in central and eastern
Africa, having the body and belly striped, but
the legs plain or nearly so. By some it is
regarded as a race of the quagga. Grevy’s
zebra ( E. grevyi), the largest species, inhabits
mountains of north-east Africa. It has the
stripes on both body and legs, narrower and
more numerous, and has the ears long and
fringed with hair.
* * * *
A few particulars about the bony bream ?
4154.
The so-called bony bream ( Nematalosa erebi)
is a fresh-water herring, plentiful in many
streams in the eastern and central portions of
the continent, and apparently extending west-
wards also. It is closely allied to an estuarine
form, Nematalosa come, which occurs in
tropical parts of Australia and in the Indio-
Australian archipelago. Both are extremely
bony, and of little value as food; they are
sometimes called “hairbacked herrings” in
allusion to a long, slender ray that projects
backwards from the dorsal fin.
* * * *
(1) Time and (2) method of sowing ciner-
aria ? —4173.
(1) To keep up a succession of bloom, sow
seed at intervals from September to the first
week in January. Early-sown seedlings, how-
ever, are often attacked by a pest known as
the celery fly, whereas plants raised from
seed sown from the middle of December up
to the first week in January generally appear to
be immune. (2) Sow the seed thinly in a seed
pan filled with a compost of light, loamy soil
and sandy peat. To distribute the seed evenly
whilst sowing, mix it with some dry silver sand;
and to prevent the possibility of soil insects,
bake both the seed pan and the compost in
an oven before using. After the seed is sown,
cover the pan with a sheet of frosted or white-
washed glass, and stand it in a shallow dish of
water, allowing the moisture to percolate right
through to the top until it comes to the sur-
face.
* * * *
A few general hints on growing ferns in a
room ? —4168.
Ferns when grown inside require plenty of
light and air, and will not thrive in a draughty
place. While direct sunlight must be avoided,
take care that the plants are not overshaded.
Good drainage and a fair amount of moisture
are absolutely necessary. The plants may be
repotted every spring in a mixture of leaf
mould and peat, with some well-decayed and
thoroughly-pulverised cow manure, mixed
through the compost. When once thoroughly
established, an occasional watering with liquid
sulphate of ammonia, at the rate of soz. to a
gallon of water, will help to keep the plants
in a good, healthy condition. Ferns grown in-
doors do not keep their condition in the winter,
but soon revive again after being repotted in
the spring.
* * * *
(1) Did Joe Hall win the featherweight
championship of Australia ? (2) If so, from
whom? (3) Has Mickey Miller ever beaten
Hall ? (4) How many times have Hall and
Miller met? When and where did the contests
take place, and how did they result ? —4370.
(1) and (2) No. He defeated Mickey Miller
on two occasions when Miller held the 9st.
title, but when championship conditions—
weight, etc. —were not observed. (3) No. (4)
Twice. Hall won on a foul from Miller in
nine rounds at Fitzroy (Vic.) on October 8,
1937. and outpointed Miller in 12 rounds at
the Sydney Stadium on February 28, 1938.
* V * *
How many times have Fred Henneberry and
Ron Richards fought each other., when and
where did the contests take place, and what
were the ■ results and weights of each boxer?
—4351.
They met seven times. Dates and results
are: January 16, 1933, 12 rounds draw; March
20, 1933, Richards won on a foul in 13 rounds;
June 5, 1933, Henneberry outpointed Richards
in 10 rounds, all at Sydney Stadium. May
26, 1934, and November 10, 1934, Henneberry
outpointed Richards in 15 rounds; August
25, 1934, Richards won on a foul in four
rounds, all at Brisbane Stadium. At the Sydney
Stadium on December 21, 1936, Richards col-
lapsed in the tenth round and Henneberry won
on a technical knockout. As they fought for
the Australian middleweight championship each
time they met, neither weighed more than the
middleweight limit (list. 61b.) in any of the
contests.
* * * *
When and where did Peter Jackson fight
Jim Corbett, and what was the result of then-
contest ?— 4071.
They fought in San Francisco on May 21,
1891 After 61 rounds both boxers were ex-
hausted, and the referee,, deciding neither was
fit to carry on, declared “no fight.” The
decision was later changed to a draw.
Brief Answers.
J.A.: The story was called “On the
and appeared in the “Sydney Mail” of P
29, 1931... .E.W.S.: Forms of application
admission as a cadet to the Royal M 1 1
College of Australia- can be obtained from
District Base Commandant at the military hea
quarters in the capital city of each State. • ■ •
W.M.D.: Cannot determine value withou
spection J.W.: From four to six weeks...*
P.R.: Write Under-Secretary, Department ot
Territories, Canberra, A.C.U....J-P.F.. -
ney Municipal Library, Q.V. Building, G g
street, Sydney... .W.B.G.: Would Prefer “
see story before advising R.F.. CD
direct; list of agencies will be found in
fied section of Telephone Directory. f t
Agencies are generally prepared to c °“;
original ideas... .W.P.R.: Germany s former
Pacihc colonies were New Guinea an
marck Archipelago, acquired 1885-86, c<^* e
Britain and allotted to Australia ; Samoa,
acquired 1889-99, ceded to M.L.; and Caroline,
Marshall and Yap islands, acquired
ceded to Japan.,..C.B.: Baroness Orczys
address is Villa Bijou, Monte Carlo, M
W.D.: Ranger (U.S.A.) beat Endeavour I
(England) by four races to nil for the Ame
ca’s Cup in August, 1937... .J.B W : KCI-E
stands for Knight Commander of the
the Indian Empire... .F.M.D : Search electoral
roll, inquire local police and
ment in local newspaper... .E.N.. The jewnsn
of Western Australia {Glaucosoma hebiaicum)
is a deep-bodied, perch-like fish which reaches
a length of over 30 inches, and is *
fish. It is related to the pearl perch (G. scapu-
lare) of N.S.W N.R.: The southernmost
point in Victoria, and in the whole of the Aus
tralian continent, is Wilsons Promontory,
which lies in latitude 39deg. 8mm. south,
longitude 146deg. 26min. east- • ;- HJ ’* ,,
Fox was the first editor of the Lone nancl.
Fie was followed by Arthur H. Adams, who
was succeeded by Bertram Stevens... • ”• ••
Specimen sent is a thin locust (Acrida tut) it a).
It varies in color from- a delicate green, with
pale stripes, to an almost uniform pale brown.
It does not congregate in masses, even when
numerous, and makes a curious rattling noise
during its short flight... .S.P.R.B.: Write
Nurses’ Registration Board, Wmchcombe
House, Bridge-street, Sydney....E.F.: Beyond
the City Gates, by Jack Moses B.L..
Guide for the Chairman and the Secretary, by
J. P. Monro... .K.M.C.: It is expected that the
1940 edition of the Australian Authors and
Artists’ Handbook will be issued towards the
end of this year....A.S.: Write Kingsley Fair-
bridge Farm School of W.A., Atlas Building,
Esplanade, Perth N.B.: Curtis Brown, Ltd.,
6 Henrietta-street, Covent Garden, London.
..E.J.: The state of the parties in the House
of Commons after the general election ot
November, 1935, was as follows:—Govern-
ment: Conservative 387, Liberal National 33,
National Labor 8, National 3. Opposition :
Labor 154, Liberal 17, Independent Liberal 4,
Independent Labor party 4, Independent 4,
Communist 1....W.J.M.: Grace Darling was
almost 23 when she assisted her father in the
rescue of the Forfarshire survivors. She died
of consumption on October 20, 1842, a month
before her 27th birthday... .G B : The Art
and Craft of Writing, by J W. Marriott (7s.
6d.). Living by the Pen, by Cecil Hunt (7s.
6d), and the Writing Way, by John Streeksma
(6 S .) C.W.W.: The “Australian Stamp
Monthly” (6d. monthly), Box 1944, G.P.O.,
Melbourne A.G.H.: Write Ned Young,
secretary, Dramatists Club of Australia, . 2
Cope-street, Heidelberg, Vic K.R.: Obtain-
able from Will Andrade, 173 Pitt-street, Syd-
ney N.J.: No objection to handwritten con-
tributions provided writing is legible.. ..R.S.:
Moisten the spots with a damp cloth and
remove as much as possible with a piece of
blunt wood. Clean off the remainder with a
rag dipped in olive oil and wipe clean. Polish
with a furniture or linoleum cream applied
with a flannel and finish with a silk cloth.
.K.V.C.: To one pint water add two tea-
spoons formalin and spray in the usual manner.
It is said to be not quite so useful and
simple to handle as the common oil and petrol
sprays....G.D.: Many of the violins branded
Hopf are commonplace and of little value.
Others are of a better quality, up to £20 or a
little higher. A. E. Smith & Co., 9 Hunter-
street, Sydney, could let you have further
information... .J.P.T.: (1) It would be advis-
able to call a special general meeting, the
object of which all members of the club should
individually be advised before taking the step
you propose. (2) The Law and Ptocedwe . at
Meetings in Australia. The respective points
of view of the chairman, the .secretary, the
debater and the lawyer are considered. Write
to the Law Book Co., 140 Phillip-street, Sydney.
Price 6s. 4d., post free L.B.: All depends
on the terms of the trust, but speaking gener-
ally, the step you propose would be a very
risky one and not to be advised... .C.M.L..
She could pass the law matriculation examina-
tion without attending a university and after-
wards be articled to a solicitor, who probably
would require a fee. During her articles she
could pass the necessary, legal exams.,, and at
their conclusion be admitted to practice. It
a fee has been paid to the solicitor it is usual
for him to make the clerk a monetary allow-
ance The term of articles in N. S. Wales is
five years H.M.B.: If the council has not
made the concrete path reasonably secure for
passengers it would be actionable for damages
done to any person lawfully using it.....
A C K : Write secretary, Taxpayers’ Associa-
tion’of N.S.W., 11c Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
M.B.: Meanings of native names of Manly
ferries mentioned are Bellubera, a beautiful
woman; Barrenjoey, a young kangaroo; Bara-
soola, flood tide. Balgowlah is the native name
for North Harbor, Manly, and Burra-Bra the
native name for Clontarf, Middle Harbor
N W • Paul Wenz’s nom de plume is Paul
Warrego ” Among his better-known works are
Au Pays de Lews, Contes Australiens,
T’Frharde. L’Homme du Soleil Couchant, Le
jar din des Coraux and A l’Autre Bout du
Monde .M.A.: The British Empire has an
area of 13,358,952 square miles and a popu-
lation of 500,774,000.


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Only one minute from G.P.O. and four from
Wynyard Square Railway Station. Every com-
fort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney
\/ Bali —Singapore
Bathed in glorious tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. ''MARELLA” and m.v. "MERKUR”
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE B 7901
MM
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND
$ is
tlie Gin
made as Gin
should be
made'- the
secret of the
House of
Gordon since
1769
a APffi'/ITMtHT
r
I
i
m
«
i
- /
O'-?
STl
o*°
0§?
>-:■
Hflg
ff!2
Ht”
6?
tsl
GW
m
m'
?5&
li3®
t ®
#
I
IS
d&9
RSI
10
ijou value ijinA health-InSiit on
Gordon’s
,■■■. w Air Wri
!|mux.neI|ixondon gin
TANQUERAY.GORDON & CO.,
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND
Zlhe latest gin diMilleAi in the wolld
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
W.L.M. (Adelaide): Welcome to try your
luck, but zero hour is midday Monday....
D. : It didn’t live up to “Oh, moon, go bag
your head”... .J.S. Spend another “ ’arf-a-mo”
polishing it... .N.J.D.: You can always get a
terry to Manly... .John H.: They’d be all the
better if you st9pped apostrophising the Deity
every alternate line... .J.D.: Love found a very
old way... .M.D.: Thin... .E.K.: It jogs
along all right, but the pun’s feeble... .H.G.D.:
Slick without being very funny J. 8.8.: Pass-
ing thoughts... .R.E.: Shed a lonely tear if you
must, but don’t post it 0n... .A.S.A.: Both
T llBB- • • *E.D.: Doesn’t get there... .C.M.:
jDidn t exactly roar with laughter at “Smilin’
‘I 11-0 • • ••8.V.: Not with that “scarf”-
’ laugh rhyme... .J.S.: The Religious Editor
damned it... .H.C.8.: Pity you had to come to
that ‘real pathos” N.M.: Try something
not quite so angry... .J.D.S.: Too obviously
an imitation of Dennis H.D.: Not here.
* a PP e aling, verse appalling.
V • .W.G.D.: Can’t cope with Binkie Boy and
the dying swagman.... R.A.G.: ’Orrid
K.T.G.: “Farewell friends, I must leave you
now , t:s the calling of the West.” Farewell,
then... .R.W.: You’re getting further away.
G.H.S.: Incredible C.A.8.: Nearly
made the grade J.N.: Too sweet J.S.M.:
Quite a lot about little... .R.E.: It’s been
attempted dozens of times before E.M.:
Just so 50... .8.J.8.: Slick, but it slipped
E. Not here J.C.: Childish P.F.:
Nothing new in it....E.W.: You may place
it elsewhere K.F.: Failed N.M.K. : The
funny little fat man wasn’t funny... .P.McM.:
0ut....D.W.; “Return Ticket” —for an old,
old trip... .J.F.: You didn’t catch anything
with “Fishin’ ”... .J.W.: Passed 0ut....
0.D.A.: A lightweight J.D.C.: You’ve called
at the wrong address... .R.F.: They all run true
to type... .P.R.: 5ad....P.K.: Have you no
other way of filling in time? G. 1.: Hardly
a yarn... .N.T.P.: That newchum has ridden
that buckjumper in that same manner about
999,999 times... .V.L.S.: Send “Spies Amongst
Us” to Billy Hughes N.J.T.: “Purple
Patches” is apt... .L.T.8.: Too wordy....
8.T.L.: Pl9t poor, style dreadful, handwriting
almost illegible... .K.D.S.: Five hundred words
would have made that point H.T.S.: We’ve
been haunted by those ghosts ever since we
started publishing short stories J.T.S.:
You’re not the first to write as you please.
C.L.R.: Ideas are useful, but it takes hard
work to get there N.R.F.: Others have
written it, but none quite as badly J.S.F.:
Piffle 8.R.D.: Missed by a short head
V.C.R.: There is no reasonable excuse for per-
petrating that sort of outrage C.L.S.:
They’ll haunt you in your old age T.N.E.:
They all find gold, they all murder their mates,
and they all die of thirst in the desert
8.R.L.: “What Are We Waiting For?” In-
spiration, by the look of it....L.R.: Harold
Mercer has pegged that claim D.L.T.:
There’s a yarn there if you handle it tne right
way G.S.R.: You’re oif the rails L.R.S.:
Since when have you been appointed “Aus-
tralia’s Number One Mystery Writer”?....
H.T.C.: It’s broody.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENT.
G.H.S.: A course with a life class would
be helpful 8.R.D.: The point of the gag
must have escaped en route. .. .C.K.: Lifeless
sketch and jest that saw the light at the be-
ginning of this century A.8.J.: We will try
to struggle along without your masterpieces.
....R.N.: Schoolteacher needs to be rebuilt.
. ...W.D.: Idea hackneyed and treatment
poor E.M.N.: No need to tell us that it is
a first affort... .K.M.: Gent, coiled around
telegraph pole is an old friend W.H.S.:
Can’t see you replacing any of our regulars.
A.L.B.: The last time we saw that joke
it was in an American funny paper H.M.:
An untidy batch C.R.8.: It may have
raised a laugh at your end but it was received
in cold silence here A.S.A.: Well enough
done, but very much off o.ur beat D.W.:
That gag had a vogue in the early days of the
hiking craze C.H.C.: Sending back the
picture of the Chinaman being swung around
by his pigtail S.L.W.: Not in the market
for adventure strips J.J.D.: It didn’t last
the first round.... .E.W.M.: Those misfits made
a good meal for the office crocodile C.T.:
If the sketch had been as good as the gag it
would have earned you a cheque... .K.A.: You
are still among the also-rans H.J.S.: A
variation almost as stale as the original gag.
W.H.: Call and collect them N.S.:
Promising.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Latest Antipodean to score in the
R.A.F. promotions is Group-Captain
Arthur Coningham, who . takes over No.
4 Group in the Home Command in place
of Air Commodore C. H. B. Blount.
Coningham is a Maorilander who enlisted
as a trooper in the N.Z.E.F. at 19, served
in Samoa at the taking of the Territory
and on Gallipoli. In 1916 he joined the
R.F.C., and in the next 18 months won
the D. 5.0., M.C. and D.F.C. In 1923
he commanded No. 55 Squadron in Iraq,
was mentioned in dispatches for his part
in the Kurdistan affair in 1924, served in
the Egyptian Command, won the A.F.C.
in 1926, was a Wing Commander at 36,
commanded the big station at Calshot,
and is now ripe for Air Commodore’s
rank.
o * * *
“Captain Pintle”: Whenever I see a
poster inviting Australians to visit the
beautiful Dutch Indies it recalls memories
of why and how that fine old Scot-Aus-
tralian James Burns bumped them two
centuries ahead by an international arbi-
tration case. In January, 1888, his
Sydney whaler, Costa Rica Packet, J. B.
Carpenter master, took 13 cases of native
spirits and a tin of kerosene from a
derelict prau north of Boeroe Island, on
the high seas. At Ternate in November,
1891, the ship was seized and Captain
Carpenter gaoled by the Dutch Resident
on a charge of malicious appropriation
of the goods within territorial waters.
Burns took the matter up with the British
Government, and in 1897 was awarded
£11,082 by an international arbitrator
selected by the Tsar of Russia. The
decision affirmed the principle that a
private vessel on the high seas is subject,
save in exceptional cases, only to the
jurisdiction and control of the State to
which she belongs. Also, it forced the
Indies Government to remodel its 200-
year-old shipping law, and earned
millions for the Dutch.
* *
“C.Q.”: I am much struck by a recent
announcement of one of the innumerable
departments of the League of Nations. It
has found the ideal diet—one pint of
milk, one egg, 2oz. of butter, one serving
of green vegetables, one serving of pota-
toes and some other vegetable, two serv-
ings of fruit (one raw) and one serve of
meat. All these items should be eaten
each day by adults, says the League. It
doesn’t explain how the adult is to get
it if he hasn’t the means, or whether he.
will be allowed to take it from his neigh-
bor, contrary to the League Covenant.
But perhaps the League intends to apply
sanctions to the individual who has two
eggs if he refuses to share with a fellow-
citizen who has none.
* ■* gs ft
“Yellowplush”: “The Friends of the
Duke of Windsor in America” have had
a swell dinner at the New York Fair.
It cost a dollar a nob, and judging by a
report of the proceedings received in
Sydney a pleasant time was had by all.
That stalwart Anglo-Saxon Mirza Ahmad
Sohrab was in the chair (he’s the secre-
tary-treasurer of the “Friends”). Mrs.
Lewis Stuyvesant Chanler, the president,
made a flowery oration recommending the
immediate formation of a Peace Depart-
ment of the World, with the Duke as
leader. Bhupesh Guha danced, in the
Hindu manner, his justly-celebrated
terpsichorean creation ‘'Farewell to
Force,” and the Balmoral Trio, which
sang to music provided by that stern
Caledonian Karl Schulz, suddenly be-
came instrumental and performed “for
the first time in America” a march entitled
“Le Retour du Due de Windsor.” Dr.
Jacques de Marquette (of Paris, France)
claimed attention of the meeting and the
Duke for his “Youth International
Friendship Camps.” A rousing address
by a radio announcer and sundry recipes
for world-regeneration filled in the rest
of the time.
* . .
S.T.S. : When Kipling warned Britain
to beware of the Bear (B. 26/7/ 39), it
was in his early years, and he was merely
echoing a tradition that had lasted into
his time, especially for his Anglo-Indian
connections. With veterans of the
Crimea still about everywhere, and with
Russia powerful and exploratory and
railway-building in Central Asia, India
was regarded as constantly in danger,
and the Khyber Pass, the only obvious
way of approach, was always in the
news, instead of being heard of only on
the films as now. When the recklessly
brave Burnaby was killed in an Egyptian
fight against “Fuzzy-Wuzzy,” Andrew
Lan S wr ote a fine sonnet about how a
life so valuable should have been, “not
thrown away in a desert skirmish, but
kept for the Day of Reckoning when
grey greatcoats come down the Pass”
To come much nearer home, the Adel-
aide dailies now occasionally record a
50-year-old item when the scare of
(entirely improbable) “Russian cruisers
in the Gulf” would set the S.A. defence
forces feverishly mounting big guns in
the sandhills at Glenelg, and planning
how the city itself could be defended
from a landing force.


FIFTY YEARS AGO
AUSTRALIAN LIFE IN 1889, AS REFLECTED in august
NUMBERS OF “THE BULLETIN,” WITH 1939 ADDITIONS.
THE year that closed on June 30,
1939, was a year of deficits, as
N. S. Wales has been reminded by
3- diversity of politicians. The
1888-89 financial year was a good one,
and if Premier Dunstan evei dips into
the history of those times he must sigh at
the»comparative affluence of his 1888-89
predecessor. Duncan Gillies had a sur-
plus of a million and a half.
There was a Country group in those
, j
days and hen, as now, ,t objected to
spending all the money in the Big City.
So did The Bulletin. A paragraph
dated August 10, 1889:-
„ r . . , ~
Premier Gillies, of Victoria has a big
surplus, and the Country party raises its
back over the style in which he proposes
to knock it down. “Roads and'bridges,
PHIL MAY GOES SKATING.
There was a skating boom 50 years ago, as there is to-day.
be !” says Dunky. He is going to hand
over £90,000 for the completion of Mel-
bourne Public Library and over £90,000 for
propping up the tumbledown University.
Sir Salmon Wilson chucked away £40,000
there building the useless Wilson Hall, a
monument of pride and folly, while the
University itself is falling to pieces like a
rotten tombstone.
Gillies talked a parcel of trash in his
Budget speech about the University being
for the benefit of the Working Man. One
in a thousand may squeeze a boy in there,
but in reality the taxpayers’ money goes
for the benefit of the Rich. The co-called
Working Man’s College is to get a com-
paratively small slice out of the surplus.
This is almost entirely a middle-class insti-
tution.
Country members will slaughter the
Gillies idea of pouring the surplus on
bloated Melbourne. All the money is to
go to the plate-glass window. Never mind
about the back premises!
What’s the hurry over spending this
million and a half? Why not apply it to
Irrigation? Surely that is more immedi-
ately pressing than the Public Library, Uni-
versity and Leopold College, as Mr.
Ormond persisted in calling it in his will.
The college is leopoldy all over; the Leo-
pold will never be washed out again.
In October, 1938, the 90 N.S.W.
Assemblymen increased their salaries
from £670 p.a. to £875 p.a., and dated the
rise back to July 1. Certain of these
gentlemen are now troubled in their
minds over the fact that the accounts
show a deficit of £2,800,000, and at least
one has suggested that another million
really went west. Fifty years ago, N.S.W.
Assemblymen were not paid.
“For ten years past,” said The Bulle-
tin of August 10, 1889, “a majority of
New South Wales electors have favored
payment of members, but measures to
effect that reform, passed in the Lower
House, have, time after time, been
slaughtered in the Council” —with the
approval of Henry Parkes. Parkes and
the Sydney daily press objected to what
they called the “professional politician.”
To The Bulletin, the professional poli-
tician was “the only politician; the rest
are amateurs and make-believes. Parkes
is a professional politician.”
why d;d parkes g . ye N _ sthe Edu .
cat . Qn Act? Because he j s a professional
po ii t i c j an , and he had to do something
vigorous or quit the position. Why did
he take so firm a stand on the Chinese
Restriction Act? Because he is a pro-
politician. Why does he now
speak so decidedly about the desecration of
Hyde Park, Sydney? Because he is a pro-
fessional politician, and because he knows
P ’ echoing a big popular
. .
’ . .
, wh '' e “erasing to the full hisprivi-
lege of nominating members to the old
Le gi s l a tive Council—he once described
& t 4 „
th e members as my creatures Parkes
wanted to make it an elective Chamber,
and raised the question from time to
time. He did it again in 1889 and found
many associates and sympathisers. But
The Bulletin pronounced the agitation
“half-hearted” and the agitators “only
half in earnest. They know what they
desire to abolish, but don’t clearly recog-
nise what would advantageously fill the
vacancy.” The Bulletin was for aboli-
tion of the “worse than worthless en-
cumbrance” ; but proposed that it should
be gradual.
If, for instance, it were enacted that a
measure passed in two successive Parlia-
ments through the Assembly should become
law upon the second passage, nominee
obstinacy would be reft of its power of
effectual rebellion against the popular will,
while, on the other hand, there would be
efficient provision against incautious legis-
lation.
Twenty-two years later, the supremacy
of the Commons over the Lords was
established in this way.
Parkes predicted that he would outlive
the nominee Council. He died 37 years
before it was abolished and a sort-of-a-
kind of elective House substituted. The
first electors were members of. the expir-
ing Council and members of the con-
tinuing Assembly, and Sydney was full
of stories to the effect that electors were
offered fantastic wagers, such as £lOO to
6d. and £5O to a used postage stamp,
that So-and-so wouldn’t be elected. Then
is was that Arthur Griffith, W. A. Hol-
man’s Minister of Works and Secretary
for Education, protested in The
Bulletin that N.S.W. would get “as
good a Legislative Council as money
could buy.”
Fifty years ago Boyd Dunlop More-
head was Premier of Queensland. His
immediate predecessors were Samuel
Griffith and Thomas Mcllwraith, and
they were to be his immediate successors.
Morehead was a native of Sydney, edu-
cated at Sydney Grammar School and
Sydney University. After three years
as a clerk in the Bank of N.S.W. he went
north and became associated with Scot-
tish Australian Investment as inspector
of stations. In 1871, at the age of 2b,
he was elected for Mitchell as a repre-
sentative of the squatting interest, and
he was Premier for two years, 1888-1890.
Mo rehead had a majority as command-
ing as that of Forgan Smith to-day, and
the Opposition, for the most part, con-
tented itself with concurring. After a
day at the Assembly a visitor wrote, “I
have never seen such a happy family.
The Government introduces proposals,
and the Opposition, almost to a man,
approves of them, occasionally suggest-
ing a few unimportant amendments by
way of letting people know that the sem-
blance of an Opposition really exists.
Now and then an orator who is .rambling
on all points except the one at issue will
be called to order. He merely retorts
‘Order be damned!’ and again urges on
his wild career.”
Even then Queensland had Sugar Com-
missioners. A pen-picture: “Willyum
Heneree Groom is medium-sized, in-
clined to a paunch ; clean-shaved lip and
chin, with exiguous black whiskers;
pince-nez glasses, a saponaceous amble
and a more than saponaceous smile.
Cowley is a small, swarthy man, with a
small, thick black moustache, and sugar-
planter written all over him from his
square-toed boots to his drab slouch hat.
King is a tall, narrow-shouldered, stoop-
ing, fossiliferous man, with a family like-
ness to Rip Van Winkle. He walks at
a run, and he salutes no man by the
way. He was Speaker before Groom’s
day, and one of the few Queensland
Ms.L.A. who were Protectionists by con-
viction from the start.”
Morehead’s Treasurer was “Billy Patti-
son, the Mount Morgan milionaire, a
small fat man, with a general resem-
blance to a peg-top.” He had a “clean-
shaved face with side whiskers and a
curved nose, on which (not exclusively
on the nose)” were “written in legible
characters shrewdness and decision. He
spent a frightful amount of labor over
getting ready his Budget, and, though
there was a glacial west wind blowing at
the time, took off his coat to it.” Patti-
son “administered his department with
vigor,” and didn’t like “the Deluge in his
Mackay rum.”
Another “Mount Morgan millionaire”
was William Knox D’Arcy, afterwards
known in every continent for his contri-
bution to the founding of Anglo-Persian
Oil. Mrs. D’Arcy had “knocked all the
Brisbane people out of time by appearing
in the Ladies’ Gallery, at the opening
of the Queensland Parliament, in a Paris
dress of ruby hues.” The D’Arcys
had gone to London and taken rooms
which General Boulanger was subse-
quently to occupy.
D’Arcy was a Devon man. The lady
who “knocked all the Brisbane people”
was a Queensland girl, daughter of S. B.
Birkbeck, of Glenmore. She died in
1897, and D’Arcy married another
Queensland girl: Nina, daughter of A. L.
Boucicault.
Other millionaires had died: “old Tom”
Monahan, of Erindale, and J. B. Watson,
of Bendigo. Of Watson it was written
HOWARD WILLOUGHBY, Editor of
the Melbourne “Argus.”
that, “although he made all his stupen-
dous wealth by quartz-mining, he never
invested one single penny in prospecting
the district, and during his lifetime gave
nothing to Bendigo charities. He left
his married daughters sums of various
amounts yearly, such amounts to be
doubled upon the death of their hus-
bands.” One of the husbands was Billy
Murdoch, the cricketer, captain of four
Australian Elevens.
Monahan’s Victorian estate was proved
at just on a million, and he owned large
properties in N.S.W. as well. It all went
to grandchildren, chiefly the children of
J. A. Wallace, M.L.C., a noted Victorian
mining man of the period. “Old Tom
had no use for lawyers ; his will pro-
vided that, should any legatee go to law
with the executors, all his or her in-
terests should be forfeited to Melbourne
hospitals.”
It was proposed to carry the railway through Hyde Park, Sydney. Parkes
wouldn’t have it.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
For a brisk defence, touched with irony, of the girl-in-business, a Victorian will
get a cheque for £3 35., with 2 4 per line added.
Woman the Goldmine
Many who take up the subject of
women in men’s jobs talk with tongue in
cheek. Apart from women being cheaper
to employ, a boon to the employer as an
individual, they are grand spenders—a
blessing to business in the mass.
I have had four daughters on the em-
ployment market. (Off now, all mar-
ried.) Had they been willing to take them
from me, only a salary-earner myself,
I could not have given them clothes,
amusements and pocket money up to the
frills and fancies the education I had
given them made them rank as needs.
So they had to earn. Educated for frills,
they did not, of course, choose poor jobs.
From ’teen age to marriage my four
made good money—in a few years better
in net amount than I could. Did they
save? Did they invest? Did they give
one thought to to-morrow? They did
not. They spent.
They had everything their money could
get them: clothes, clubs, cosmetics,
cruises (two went round the world), trips,
theatres, fancy frills and friends, costly
habits and pastimes. Everything that had
been luxuries to their mother and me
were necessities to them. (And good luck
to their enterprise, / say!)
Then, having exhausted experience so
far as their years permitted, they handed
themselves over, virtually penniless, to
the keeping of four men —who will do
the moneymaking henceforth while the
girls (of necessity) now begin to learn
economy and economics.
That which my girls did other girls
are doing. From the 205.-a-week shop
junior or facto'ry lass giving her laborer’s-
wife mum 7s. 6d. to 10s. for her keep,
via the 605.-a-weeker giving her salary-
earner’s-wife mamma 205., to the 100 s-
.-weeker running her own flat, they are
(in the main, the occasional home-sup-
porter always excepted) all spending with-
out thought of any morrow but that
which holds a man provider, and every
branch of business is absorbed in luring
them to keep at it.
You have only to look at ads., shop
windows, magazines, etc., to see that all
selling energy is directed at the money-
flush girl. vShe is having the time of her
life, and isn’t she making a welter of it!
For community good—or evil? I don’t
know; I merely mention my own case.
But I do say that half this protesting
against the woman employee is blah;
the lass is a general goldmine. Person-
ally, I think the State should take a cut
from anything above what the earning
girl really needs for living or safeguard-
ing her future —I could never stomach
the idea of charging my own daughters
board —if only as, a compulsory insur-
ance. It is not fair that business should
get the lot. — Quadriparens (Vic.).
The writer of the foregoing, R. Maude,
Windsor-crescent, Mont Albert, Victoria,
wins the £3 35., plus space rates.
Modem Wives
“£ove” (B. 14/6/’39), who alleges that
modern girls think more of making a
“splash” on their wedding day than of
helping to build a home, appears to have
a very limited knowledge of the ways
of present-day young couples.
My own case is typical of many young
men whom I know. The depression
meant that our marriage had to be post-
poned for some years, and it would have
been delayed still longer if my wife had
not saved from her earnings and helped
to buy furniture and other necessities.
Of course, she had her trousseau, but
far from being a waste, as “£ove” infers,
it meant that very little indeed had to be
spent on clothes during the first year of
married life.
Like many, or indeed most, young
women of to-day, my wife had to meet
all sorts of expenses out of the income
she earned before marriage. The result
is that she knows the need for careful
budgeting and avoidance of the t.p. sys-
tem as a general principle, and there are
no “bickering and rows over the pay
envelope.”
From my observation of others who
have married in these post-depression
years, we are typical of many young
Australians who have emerged from one
of the leanest periods in our economic
history with the determination to build
on sound foundations. “£ove’s” brick-
bats would have been better directed at
the “social leaders” who squander small
fortunes on their daughters’ Wedding-day
displays.—J. Gold (Vic.).
Modern “Art”
Seeing that we are allowed a free press,
and also that The Bulletin invites frank
criticism, might 1 say I consider it about
time that people woke up and stopped
calling this so-called “surrealism” modern
“art”? How anyone in his or her right
senses could attach the word “art” to
such pure, unadulterated trash is beyond
me. I pride myself on being averagely
intelligent, but after viewing the display
of “British contemporary art” at Adel-
aide National Gallery I found myself
wondering seriously if it were 1 who was
crazy or the surrealist artist who was
responsible for the (I considered) insult
to a person’s intelligence. Surely people
couldn’t view these nightmares and in ail
truth call them art! If it’s art, then Rem-
brandt must have been wrong.
I’m a young modern myself, but if
this is an example of modern twentieth-
century art then I suggest that these
artists forget all they’ve done and begin
to study all over again. Perhaps in time
we shall learn to forgive and forget, too,
—Arty (S.A.).
Industries in Country Towns
The idea of encouraging industries in
country towns merits some serious
thought, particularly in Queensland,
where the wealth is not concentrated in
a single city, but spread over the coast-
line in Bundaberg, Rockhampton and
Townsville.
The prosperity of inland towns is deter-
mined by the price of wheat and wool,
and therefore assumes a somewhat Pro-
tean face. They depend entirely upon
the rural industries for sustenance. In
Toowoomba, which once proudly bore
the title of “Queen of. the Darling
Downs,” there has been a decidedly
downward trend in the last five years,
the reason being that landowners, mov-
ing farther west, have made Dalby the
centre of the Darling Downs.
Industries would give body and per-
manence to towns such as Toowoomba.
The wealth of raw materials to be found
on the Downs offers abundant scope for
development, and the Ipswich coalmines
are within convenient distance. New in-
dustries could easily be started and de-
veloped.
And, lastly, Queensland country towns
make little or no provision for the tourist
trade. Attractive guest-houses in pleasant
surroundings, instead of the usual “pub,”
would do much to assist in this respect.
—Janet Nelson (Q.).
Good Old John Bull
I can never understand why Austra-
lians, above all persons, are not more
ready to give three hearty cheers for the
diplomats, Cabinet Ministers and other
wise men who serve John Bull in the
cause of peace so skilfully, courageously
and loyally that, in spite of everything
that has happened in the past few years,
we are still able to live at peace within
the shores of the Empire.
Surely there never was a time since
John Bull was born into the world when
men gave greater service to their nation
than these who have steered us through
the treacherous waters of international
relations, where even the crews and the
petty officers lose their heads and try to
quarrel with the navigation officers about
the course that is being steered for their
safety.
Chamberlain and the men about him
have been abused, bullied, ridiculed by
Britons ; they have been enticed, intimi-
dated, threatened by foreign Powers;
and they have been betrayed and held up
to public scorn by critics of the I-told-
you-so breed. Yet they have never lost
faith, never shown the white feather and
never let go the helm, no matter what
twistings and backing of water were
necessary to avoid another catastrophe.
And they are still working away, un-
daunted by all the threats of political
earthquakes or by screaming and schem-
ing enemies within and without their own
camp.
It certai,nly can’t be the pay they
receive. Surely then it is the fundamental
manhood that resides in hearts of oak —
the real stuff of which statesmen are
made. Why don’t we take off our hats
and cheer good old John Bull as we
never cheered before? We are the people
for whom he is doing it all. — Plain Bill
(N.S.W.).
The Queensland Basic Wage
Queensland has just had an increase in
the basic wage. My first acquaintance
with the new order was made when a
load of fruit cases arrived from a large
mill near by. The carrier remarked how
fortunate we were to have had the cases
ordered. ‘ Now that the basic wage has
gone up the boss has had to raise the
price twopence per case, and has had to
put off three men.” — Admiral (Q.).
Country Hotels
“Jannell” (B. 12/7/’39) must inhabit
inferior pubs. I live in hotels, and have
done so, off and on, for years through-
out N.S.W. and Vic., and I’ve never
yet been wakened before 8.30 a.m. ex-
cept to be given' morning tea. I have
never been asked for my sheet, either
top or bottom or both. I have not had to
wait later than 8 a.m. for breakfast on
a working day.
In most hotels I get hot and cold
water laid on to my bedroom, good
beds and good meals served on time.
If I delay in the bar beyond reasonable
hours 1 do not moan if 1 have to go to
the “wop.”— Pine Scrub (N.S.W.).
“Live on Less!”
The tendency to “control” in recent
years, whether it be in relation to poli-
tics, business or sport, eventually means
that authority is vested in one person or
a few, and it seems to be difficult for the
one or the selected few to remember that
those affected by their decisions, etc., are
entitled to some recognition or hearing.
In general, the masses in Australia are
honest and law-abiding citizens who go
about their different callings in an atmo-
sphere of trust in the spoken word rather
than the literal meaning of the written ;
generally their outlook does not descend
to a suspicious examination of every
word in a statement.
Looking back on the N.S.W. political
shindy, can we say we are satisfied that
past Government statements have been
carried out to the letter? I think there
was hardly an exception, at the begin-
ning, to the imposition of a wages tax,
because we were told, or led to believe,
that the money was for a fellow-citizen
out of a job.
Whatever may be the arguments as to
where the money should appear in the
public accounts, Parliament, as servant
of the people, to my mind, fails in dis-
charging its duty if it spends the money
in any other way. If the Government
is short of revenue it should face up to
the possible criticism of its “master” by
obtaining the shortage by specific taxa-
tion.
When we look back over the years
since 1931 can we find any evidence of
effort by Governments to “live on less,”
as they told private industry to do? We
all thought the expenses of our businesses
had been so combed that no appreciable
savings were possible ; what a different
position we found when we were forced
to find economies! I maintain that Gov-
ernments might find very many sources of
new employment in private enterprise if
they lived on less themselves. —J. W.
Anderson (N.S.W.).
Propaganda—and Truth
“Ell” (B. 19/7/’39) would inflict a
Ministry of Propaganda upon Aus-
tralians to teach them all about politics,
and cites Germany’s experiment as a
model. Does “Ell” realise all that propa-
ganda means?
During the “war to end war” propa-
gandists on both sides were kept busy
painting the enemy in gruesome colors
and composing gory fictions about him.
All this was designed to lash the people
of one country into hatred against the
people of another. It succeeded so well
that after 20 years of peace there is still
estrangement apart from recognised
political differences—between two of the
greatest nations. To-day, mischievous
distortion of facts keeps the ball rolling.
A science which hardens the hearts
and minds of one section of humanity
towards another isn’t education but an
instrument or a potential instrument of
war. A diet of truth, in place of the
dressed-up stuff the people get, would re-
move much dangerous ignorance and
suspicion.
I, for one, wouldn’t listen to the bray-
ing of a Minister of Propaganda. I’d
know him to be telling me only what he
thought I should know.— Arthur Falk
(Vic.).
In the Right Direction
The Bulletin’s views on the displace-
ment of young men in employment by
“mincing imitations of Joan Crawford”
(B. 26/7/’39) find agreement in this fel-
low’s mind.
Here’s a chance for Government and
municipal departments, so fond of
pioneering shorter working weeks at the
tax- and ratepayer’s expense, to give a
lead in the right direction. Let them
pioneer a movement to put young men
with qualifications back in the work they
need for stability and security. Many
young chaps, out of work altogether or
filling in time o.n temporary work, are of
the steady type and, given a chance,
would stick into a job and treat it
seriously—not just as something rather
amusing to hold on to only until
“Prince Charming” comes along.
The opportunity is there —will it be
seized? —R. H. A. (W.A.).
The B.M.A.
There is something in what “D.A.K.”
(B. 19/7/’39) says about young doctors
tending to stick round the cities. This
is partly due to over-urbanisation of
the whole community. The recent
graduate in the city after his resident
days are over still, as a rule, only earns
a mere pittance, but he receives in com-
pensation the opportunity of gaining
knowledge from the masters of the pro-
fession. This is encouraged by such a
body as the College of Surgeons, which
voices a belief in a kind of apprentice-
ship. This may be good, but too-early
specialisation has its dangers.
The matter of medical incomes needs
examination. Figures quoted are usually
gross receipts, and £lOOO a year, less ex-
penses, is by no means princely.
Twenty-five per cent, for running the
practice would be a very moderate esti-
mate, and when it is considered that the
doctor, particularly in the isolated
settlement with no colleagues, is on
duty for 24 hours a day it would seem
that he is working (at £750 net) for £250
p.a. per eight-hour shift.
Comparatively few men have entered
the medical profession for what they can
get out of it. It is quite true that from
the strictly business point of view a
medical education is a poor investment.'
The B.M.A. wishes to serve the com-
munity by maintaining a standard of
living in the profession, so that it will
continue to attract men who make “nice
doctors.” Price-cutting in medicine has
been a rarity in Australia, and if the in-
flux of foreign doctors, be their scien-
tific attainments what they may, is going
A “Bulletin” Club?
Please make no mistake regarding the
motive behind this letter. The tough
going of practical experience has taught
me there is only one sure method of
influencing editors —it is to send them the
copy they want. Anyway, those I’ve met
are totally immune from flattery.
I take in many magazines and periodi-
cals —or else they take me in. Most of
these run some form of club where mem-
bers interested in the periodical’s activi-
ties can meet each other, even if it is only
to talk, chatter, discuss and be sociable.
The exception to the rule is The Bul-
letin.
Certainly its readers are scattered far
and wide, but in every city in the Com-
monwealth there must be many Bul-
letin readers living within easy reach
of a common centre. In those cities
clubs could be formed under a common
constitution varying only in circumstan-
tial domestic rules. Country members
could be affiliated. Activities would vary
according to locality, the one real bond
holding the members together being a
common interest in literature generally,
Australian literature in particular.
Membership would not imply that one
agrees with everything printed in The
Bulletin. Personally, it would be a sad
week for me if there was nothing in the
paper I could grouse about. The main
thing is that the general influence of The
Bulletin is decidedly Australian. What
more could one wish?
There would be a badge, of course-
why not? It would prove an acquisition
and an introduction to any member
travelling outside his own home town.
In any case, right or wrong, it’s an
idea.-
T.J. Palmer
(N.S.W.).


to introduce this, it will be a sotry day for
our sick. If people want foreign doctors
they will get thern, but before laising
an outcry let it be remembered that the
local article may be better than the
much-vaunted imported goods. Also,
the B.M.A. should not be criticised, on
mercenary grounds, for striving to pro-
tect the high professional standards
(from which the public reaps more bene-
fit than the doctors) it has done so much
to build up. —H. M. S. (N.Q.).
Doctors for Isolated Parts
The real solution of the medical prob-
lem in isolated centres is the extension
of the A.I.M. flying-doctor service. In
this service it is realised that they must
get good doctors ; they must provide an
adequate salary and reasonable living
conditions ; study leave and recreation
leave are necessary ; and no man must
be allowed to remain for a long time in
a place with small scope for practice, as
otherwise he will cease to be a good prac-
titioner.
Rapid transport by aeroplane is essen-
tial, as many of the ismaller centresi
cannot, and, in fact, should not, hold a
medical man. The temporary expedient
of using the misfortunes of refugees to
make them pay for registration by ac-
cepting low salaries and poor conditions
is merely postponing the time when the
problem must be considered seriously. It
is also accepting a principle which will
be extremely dangerous if extended to
other workers.
The flying-doctor solution of the prob-
lem is a permanent solution. — Isolated
(Q-).
Dead-end Jobs and Dailies
One of the most unpleasant features
of the dead-end job problem is the hypo-
critical attitude of the Great Dailies.
In print they loudly attack the system
and suggest a host of possible solutions.
Within their offices the system operates
as anywhere else. Newspapers can be
of invaluable assistance in stamping out
evils of this type, but their influence
could be greatly extended by some
practical reformation. Such action on
the part of the newspapers, together with
the publicity they could give it, would
certainly lead, if not force, other public-
spirited business firms to follow suit. —
A. M. (N.S.W.).
Alcohol and Road Accidents
Not being a wowser I enjoy an occa-
sional glass of beer or harder fare, and
I find that mentally I am not as good
after a glass or two as I was before I
had them. There is no question of being
drunk, though on occasion I can hold
my own with the boys and still walk
home and find the keyhole without
trouble. But after a glass or two my
mental processes have become just a
little dulled, and my powers of concen-
tration have weakened. In that condi-
tion I consider myself unfit for driving,
especially in traffic. What about other
men?
Motor-driving to-day requires great
concentration and mental alertness and
a capacity for split-second decisions
which are impossible when the mental
processes are slowed up, no matter how
slightly. Consequently I suggest that the
occasional glass may be the cause of a
proportion of the road accidents. —
E. R. S. (Vic.).
Preface to Peace
I often wonder what people really
mean when they talk and write of peace.
I understand peace to mean, not merely
absence of war or a breathing space be-
tween wars, but a condition of real fra-
ternity on earth, animated by positive
goodwill.
Does anyone really imagine that real
peace will be brought about by “pacts,'’
or defensive alliances of any sort? I
smile whenever I read of nations enter-
ing into an agreement undertaking not to
go to war with one another for 10 or 15
years. Just imagine my entering into an
agreement with my neighbor Snooks not
to murder him during the years 1940-
1950. That would be very peaceful,
wouldn’t it?
Personally, I don’t think peace can
possibly eventuate until we manage to
translate some of the Christian ethics
into practice. After all, collective
“security” of any sort which intends to
use violence in case of extreme necessity
is bound to fail —because it is ultimately
relying on the very factor it hopes to
eliminate. How can peace come that
way?
I don’t see that peace will ever come
until there is a change in public morality.
The alternative is really between the*re-
ligion of the spiritual and the religion of
the material. If we reject spiritual dis-
cernment in this matter we might eventu-
ally outlaw war on the purely material
grounds that it was too destructive and
wasteful, but would the outcome really
be peace? Unless we can manage to do
something positive in the way of good-
will, I don’t see that there will ever be
real peace on earth.— Solon (N.S.W.).
Improving the Militia
My experience in the militia has been
on all fours with that of “Johnny Nuts”
(B. 2/8/’39); but he should have men-
tioned the lack of equipment. After
eight months I am still without a
uniform, and the specialist unit to
which I belong has to do its work
with borrowed instruments —when and
where we can get them. I am con-
vinced that night training of soldiers is
a wearisome business, involving much
wasted effort. Our show does its most
effective work on Sunday mornings.
And, by way of a postscript, I do not
think it unreasonable to suggest that
employers, in the interests of national
defence, should not object to some of the
home training being done in their time
—one afternoon a week, perhaps. —
Chlora Form (Q.).
The Gambling Craze
It seems that Australians have gone
gambling crazy. Invited to a card party
you must play for money, no matter
whether the game be bridge, whist, poker,
nap, euchre or just old-maid. At private
parties in homes, or at charity organisa-
tions held in public halls, there are always
housie-housie, chocolate wheels and other
forms of gambling, and unless these
attractions are present the public will not
bother to attend.
Every second newspaper conducts
some sort of competition which is merely
a legal form of gambling requiring a
small amount of skill and a large amount
of chance. Radio stations cater for the
gambling craze in order to retain their
listeners. Nightly, there are all sorts of
quiz contests, jackpots and various other
forms of competitions which are merely
another form of gambling. Even at the
Sunday-school picnic it’s ten to one you’ll
find someone with a bottle of peas invit-
ing you to guess the number in the bottle.
Add to those forms of gambling horse-
and dog-racing and all the gambling
attached thereto, and you’ll see how hope-
less it is to try to stop the Australian
from gambling merely by having a drive
against s.p. betting. S.p. is no greater an
evil than newspaper and radio competi-
tions, house-party gambling or any other
form of gambling.
With the Australian-gambling starts in
the primary schools and advances to the
Stock Exchange. Instead of endeavoring
to abolish it, it would be far better to
allow all forms of gambling, but con-
trolled so that the public would have a
reasonable chance of winning.
Give the public that reasonable chance
and the promotors of any form of
gambling will soon discover that they
haven’t a get-rich-quick scheme and the
public itself will wipe it out. — Eureka
(N.S.W.).
Capital Punishment
While the “Mother of Parliaments” is
debating the wisdom, or otherwise, of
abdlishing capital punishment, Maori-
iand is quietly proving that the fewer the
hangings the fewer the murders. Capi-
tal and corporal punishment still form
part of the criminal code on this side of
the Tasman, but since the advent of the
Labor Government five years ago,
although sentences have been passed
ordering it, no person has been hanged
or flogged here. And now for the result.
The Dominion has never been freer from
grave crime. Never before in all the
country’s history has a like period given
so few homicide cases. Maorilanders
have not become saints, but the result of
suspending the two gravest sentences
in the code is indeed illuminating.—
Winton Keay (M.L.).
Apathy
Why are we apathetic about public
affairs? is a question that has been asked
a dozen times in the 0.F.M., and the most
general explanation seems to be that we
are too interested in sport or what-have-
you.
But the average man is not apathetic
about his Government. He wants good
government, and he is willing to pay for
it despite his jokes about the tax-collector.
It’s bad logic to say that, because a man
is keen on football or racing, he hasn’t
got brains enough to know when he is
getting a raw deal from his newspapers
and the party men. His difficulty is that
he has no way of voicing his desire for
a change in the system because the press
and the politicians are doing very well
as they are.
I mix with men in differing walks of
life and with differing political opinions,
and all of them sneer when our system
of government is mentioned. They do
not want State Parliaments, and they all
believe that one Parliament would do the
work better and more cheaply. That is
The Bulletin’s creed. The man in the
street that I know is not apathetic—he is
only helpless and waiting for someone
who will tell him how we can get rid of
our political proudflesh. B. P. P.
(N.S.W.).
The Bolshie Complex
The trouble with the world at present
is that it’s got a Bolshie complex. Every
man, woman or child is for or against
the Soviet. Confining ourselves to Aus-
tralia, we have two factions —anti-
Bolshie and pro-Bolshie. The pro-
Bolshies insist that the Soviet can lick
creation, the other mob retaliates by in-
sisting that it would have to be a dashed
small creation.
But, speaking personally (and I did go
to school, and I do read an occasional
history book), I doubt if the Soviet army
could fight its way out of a paper-bag.
Because—and even though the Soviet
may possess super-tanks, super-guns and
super-’planes—even friend Stalin can t
change human nature.
Whereas the average Scotchman or
Frenchman would sooner miss his break-
fast than a fight, the average Russian
from the year dot has been notorious for
missing them, especially if the odds
looked a bit against him. Yet —and this
must be admitted —even a Frenchman or
a German can’t hold a candle to the
Russian when it comes to starting fights.
And that is the whole trouble.
Indirectly or directly, the Soviet is
well on its way to starting another grand
world brawl. It was the fear of Bolshie
propaganda that brought Hitler and his
cobber Musso to light in the first place.
They didn’t exactly fear the Bolshie
army, but just the propaganda. It was
the fear of propaganda and the Soviet
influence that put lapan into China, and
as for the war in Spain—well, isn’t that
still a poignant memory?
It’s hard to say what we are going
to do about it, but I do know this much
—if I were Chamberlain I would much
rather play hands with a death-adder
than go hobnobbing with friend Stalin.
I may be wrong, of course, and per-
haps I am a bit biased, but it is an old
saying on Tyneside, in England, that the
three things men must never trust are
“mineowners, women and Russians.”
And Tyneside comes into contact with
a lot of Russians—R. Conquest (Q.).
Dust, Thou Art . . .
Marjorie Lawrence, described by The
Bulletin’s music critic as being “up to
the standard of any concert artist who
has ever visited Sydney”—and that covers
a big field—recently cancelled a concert
because of public apathy.
In the same week the inventor of a
high-velocity explosive bullet, lohn
Pomeroy, of Melbourne, said that he will
“get up to 20 p.c. royalties on sales to
40 countries,” a tidy figure, especially
if any of the 40 countries happens to be
experiencing those “local incidents” of
whiqh we read so much.
The moral is plain—if you happen to
possess creative or inventive talent, the
world offers huge rewards for the instru-
ments of death.
I feel compelled to draw R. Con-
quest’s attention to the foregoing so that
he might compare it with his optimistic
fiat (B. 2/ 8 / ’39), “Man’s inherited cul-
ture (which received a polishing by
every successive generation) is starting
to triumph at last. In short, man’s
thoughts and impulses are no longer
swayed by the thousands of years that
his ancestors spent in barbarism.”
Greek barbarians, who somehow for-
got to decorate their historical copybook
with a war of aggression, were talking
like that in Plato’s time. William
Lynch (N.S.W.).
Climate and Literature
“Could there be a spot on earth more
melancholy than the rainswept bit of
Scottish bleakness that gave us the creator
of Peter Pan?” asks N. A. Dunn (B.
28/6/’39), and the Southron goes on to
describe “Thrums” as “a drab little
Scottish village.” Well, of course, there s
no accounting for tastes, but I hazard
the guess that “N.A.D.” has never visited
Kirriemuir or he would not have classed
as the most melancholy spot on earth the
picturesque little town that stands in the
gateway to the beautiful glens of Angus.
As for being rainswept, the west coast of
“N.A.D.’s” own Tasmania can give Kirrie
points and a beating. Australians are be-
coming as bad as Californians in their
pride of climate, and will soon be as
notorious. I wish I could have dumped
“N.A.D.” in Gin Gin or Quambone or
some such village in western N.S.W.
during the last drought. He would have
revised his notions of the most melan-
choly spot on earth. — Taysider (N.S.W.).
Women and Their Own Sex
The nursing profession no longer has
waiting lists, and good general servants
are almost non-existent. Shorter hours
and labor-saving devices seem to make
very little difference, and I am reluctantly
compelled to believe that the cause lies
with women themselves. There are, of
course, exceptions, but most women when
placed in authority over their own sex
are shrewish and persistent naggers. The
worst offenders are those who have risen
from subordinate positions.
Every nurse has vivid recollections of
bitter anguish caused by her seniors’
caustic comments during her early train-
ing. In many cases these young girls
have just finished their school life, and
the mere facing of the grim realities of
disease and death is hard enough without
the lash of vitriolic tongues.
Intelligent persons realise that most
people respond better to kindness, con-
sideration and encouragement than to
everlasting criticism and censure.
The same argument applies to the rela-
tion between mistress and maid. When
constant complaints are made regarding
the shortcomings of subordinates or em-
ployees, it is fairly safe to assume that
the grumbler is at fault herself.
If this shortage of nurses and servants
is to be overcome, the first thing for
women to learn is to treat their own sex
as they would wish to be treated. Young
nurses and domestics have no courts of
appeal, and if things get absolutely un-
bearable the only remedy is to leave and
seek other employment. —N atone (Tas.).
Science
L. J. West’s tirade against science (B.
19/7/’39) should not go unchallenged—
it’s the misuse of scientific discoveries
that should be condemned. There is no-
thing inherently evil in science, and in
the long run each new invention and dis-
covery has improved the material condi-
tions of life.
Benefits which accrue from science far
outweigh the disadvantages ; its medical
achievements have been of inestimable
value, and alone justify scientific re-
search, discovery and application. The
improvement of living conditions and the
wider spread of culture and learning have
gone hand in hand with the development
of science.
Misuse of science has produced such
things as the bomber, poison gas and all
the vicious range of modern armaments.
The radio, the newspaper and the “talkie,”
instead of being used to disseminate
knowledge, are often used as the mediums
to stir up hatreds against persons and
peoples, and to cater for ignorance and
superstition. But is that the fault of
the radio, the newspaper and the talkie?
It’s now up to science to discover a
social system that will make for better
relations between nations and between in-
dividuals. And that state of society
might make man use his inventions and
discoveries for the right ends. — Keith
Ross (N.S.W.).
Australian Literature
There seems too much of a muchness
about Australian life to give the writer
wide scope. Ned Kelly being dead,
editors now cast steely eyes at anything
pertaining to gum-trees and kangaroos.
We haven’t three distinct classes of
people to play with as has the English
writer; it’s hard to pick a man of big
business from one of his clerks. Nor
can be scrape up a castle to be haunted,
a younger son to scheme, or a traditional
curse to live down. We haven’t the ad-
vantage of the picturesque quaintness of
the English village and its people,
whereby the most hackneyed plot may
be freshened and set in county after
county, with local peculiarities and a
little homely dialect thrown in.
To overcome our difficulties we are
driven to the bizarre, the underworld,
the slums, the sharps. And that is not
a fair sample of contemporary Australian
life. We are exhorted to get away from
the hackneyed plot, yet almost every
Australian publication we pick up
features it; they don’t seem keen on
anything else. And I’m rather credulous
of the short-story-course advertisement
holding out possibilities of fame and
fortune for a single short story, though
I know that I’ve been paid as much as
twenty-five bob for one of three thousand
words.-
H.G.
(S.A.).


The 54 Common
Errors in English
The lip-perfect method of correction
by imitation, repetition
and reasoning.
A Tuitional Course by E. H. Welford,
Director of the Pelman Institute, and joint
author with A. W. B. Welford, M.A. (Cantab),
of the Welford Course in English.
There are 54 errors in the use of English
heard sufficiently often to justify the term
“common.” Most of them can be corrected
easily when the speaker knows that they are
errors.
This course of training corrects the errors
so definitely and conclusively that the pupil
speaks correctly as un-selfconsciously as
hitherto he has spoken incorrectly. In the
chapter on “Easy Speaking” he is shown how
to find the pitch at which he speaks most
agreeably and how to improve his intonation,
resonance and accent.
Not Grammar
The course is not a grammar. It is simply
a means by which the 54 corrlmon errors in the
use of English can be corrected in the shortest
possible time. We speak English, good or bad,
not grammar, good or bad, and to speak easily
we must speak without conscious attention to
grammar. -That is, in fact, how we do speak
when we are at ease.
We may speak fluently but still speak badly
if those with whom we associate, or have
associated, speak badly. This course provides
a corrective to bad speech associations by
providing correct models for imitation. The
methods are excellent and have proved effec-
tive, in isolation, with many thousands of
men and women. They are now gathered to-
gether in a complete and consistent course.
Each one of at least thirty of the errors listed
can be corrected in from three to four minutes,
and thereafter the student will use the correct
form habitually without thought and without
self-consciousness. It is true that he will not
master the thirty correct forms in one hundred
and twenty consecutive minutes. That is too
big a charge on the attention. He will master
two or three a day, however, and complete
the lessons in six weeks.
There is entertainment in the course, but its
purpose is the practical one of training people
quickly to speak good English habitually with-
out self-consciousness or affectation. This
purpose is achieved.
The fee for the Course is £2. There are
no extras. Enrolment can be made by using
the form below or by copying it. Please
address communications to —
E. H.
396 Flinders
Melbourne, C.l.
ENROLMENT FORM.
To E. H. Welford,
396 Flinders Lane;, Melbourne, C.l.
Please enrol me for the complete tuitional course,
“The 54 Common Errors in English,” by E. H.
Welford, with the full service by correspondence
thereon, at the fee of £2. 1 enclose this amount.
NAME
ADDRESS
Cheques and Money Orders should be made payable
to E. Hi Welford.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
A Practical Course for Practical People
Pelmanism is the Science of Living, of making every day a full day, a
day of enterprise and satisfaction. It deals with fundamental personal
attributes and qualities which, when developed, establish mental and
physical health, making life pleasant, harmonious and successful.
Fortunately the qualities are inherent in every normal man or woman.
The most important are
Self-Confidence
Concentration
Decisiveness
Self-Control
Judgment
Will-Power
Tact
Initiative
Social Ease
• • I
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices and
useful data of every kind.
DELMANISM is so universally
1 successful largely because it sets
out to train rather than to teach.
It knows that, according to the
nature and the strength of the indi-
vidual’s habits of mind and will, so
are his personal efficiency and his
standing with his fellows. If these
habits are bad he will be ineffective
personally; if they are good he will
be strong, happy, and successful.
A Doctor writes: “Pelmanism has shown
me how to observe instead of merely seeing.
That alone is worth the price of the course.”
A Clerk writes: “I have been able to get
a definite aim, and have abolished drifting.
I feel happier and better in myself. I can
concentrate much better. 1 am losing my
horrible self-consciousness.”
A Salesman reports: “Results gained—a
healthier state of mind and body, more self-
confidence, a better memory, a feeling of
ability and keenness in business, a desire
always to employ my spare time to some use
and a systematic style of working.”
A Secretary writes: “1 am forming
good habits and choking bad habits. I have
more self-control and self-reliance. I enjoy
life more. I feel better physically and men-
tally. 1 am easier to live with. I do not
brood.”
A Nurse writes: “Fits of depression are
far less frequent, and these are soon over-
come. Certainly much happier.”
A Musician writes: “I have a brighter
outlook on life, and I am not as apt to
become easily depressed as formerly. I realise
my aim, and have more self-confidence in
my work.”
A Shorthand-Typist writes: 1 have
energy enough for two, and the will to carry
out to the finish that which I pursue.”
A Draughtsman writes: “When T
started the course I was suffering from
severe worries. I have completely got over
these.”
A Motor Mechanic writes: “1 now
gratefully realise that without a sound know-
ledge of the principles as set out by the
Pelman Institute we cannot hope to make the
best of ourselves. I myself have overcome
Shyness, Lack of Confidence, Mind-Wander-
ing.”
A Teacher writes: “Increase in my
powers of Concentration and Memory. In-
crease in Self-Confidence. Great interest in
people and in my surroundings.”
A Bank Officer writes: “Self-Conscious-
ness has given place to Self-Confidence. I am
able to work harder and concentrate more.”
A Builder writes: “I have developed
confidence in myself and a broader outlook
on life. My life has changed from a listless,
drifting one to one of purpose. I now have
a mental and bodily health I did not have
before.”
We shall be glad to send you a copy of “The Efficient Mindy
76 pages, post free. You can write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using or copying the form below.
In any case, your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and
Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street),
Melbourne.
Telephone: MU23SS.
mm
Sir Arthur Quiller-Coucb,
King Edward VII. Processor of English
Literature at the University of Cambridge ,
England, writes —
“l say, without hesitation, that the
Pelman Course gave me practical
hints which, if they had come my
way in youth, would have saved
me more time and labor than 1 can
reckon.”
You are sure to be interested in at
least one of the people who, in
“The Efficient Mind,” speak highly
of Pelmanism from practical ex-
perience. It may be a prominent
personality who has captured your
imagination, or it may be a neighbor
who has earned your respect. Get
a copy of “The Efficient Mind” now
—write at once.
Pelmanism may be mastered by
giving to it half an hour a day for
about four months. There are 15
lessons in the Course. It is intensely
interesting, and the results begin to
show within a week. It is taught
by post.
The Pelman Institute is a world-
wide organisation of 40 years’
standing. Its headquarters are
in London. The Institute in
Melbourne was established 30
years ago.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
40,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to the Pelman Institute.
Ließe - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1932. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It
teaches many things, but its purpose
is to train qualities and attributes.
This is emphasised by every one of
the many opinions and letters pub-
lished in “The Efficient Mind.”
Copies of this book are posted free.
Write or call.
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a
copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
98
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
* -
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
address
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
* AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
‘ BITERS
Robert Kctfa
256 Pages
(illustrated).
The Australian Cattle-dog,
the Kelpie, the Barb,
Bush Greyhounds, Fox-
terriers and many
others in this
splendid book
on Dogs.
Now reduced
to 2/2
(post
free).
&
3/'
V /
o°,
0
\\ e
ttf-:
.*■ .** .••* s°
.•*
.•* A **t> e V*
, •’’ •'* o^S e o


FLU S COLDS
,:v
I
m
■
■
i*pPP|plii
Him
II :
■
.
FIGHT
THEM
with
%
l
HERE is a new way a better way
of smashing Flu and Colds in record
j
This modem 3-Way Method of fighting Flu-Colds
is quick and certain, but be sure that you use
genuine Double “D” Eucalyptus, which is extra
strong, extra pure, and kills Flu-Cold germs.
9d. Enormous Sales 1/3.
KS4
I®
■m.
9
m
m
*
m
m
THE PURE STRONG EUCALYPTUS WITH THE SWEET FRESH SMELL
