

1
(H
/r- •• ' »
: YrV^
S : .
T.'. iqJv .' V. -;
f-'i Ca • • **t.y**
It? '\
,j.«;:
-is- v*
r*S»
-«?
=3 c?
5.
V-
fi
7 1 ' •«’ ’
ri'
-A <
Wu
rF.-#V y
d-v.-v
»• •• * • *• ;»■
I'**~V*£
i /'-y.
■;’>r:ro^y.
■ 'r':v f( 1
‘ -/ .
fj
a
* 1 !(
: a
&C- ;- . '•
6-sS*
:
psll
f.'vKS
jf||l
u
t'v
•Jrtfj‘'/,ii-ii¥.-i t
!!E!»
f p 11
;
5
Wryij
K/* RM
HOST HOLBROOK says:
"The Green Dragon, Alderbury, Wiltshire, is an
interesting old inn on Salisbury Plain.
Many a soldier of the Great War will remember
with greater affection the hospitality of such inns, and
the tankard of ale quaffed in the company of his mates,
than the monumental wonders of nearby Stonehenge.
The meals one enjoys most are those that have
been perfected by the addition of a few drops of my
Worcestershire Sauce, which stimulates the appetite and
aids digestion.”
¥A
bass
CVRRIF.S.ORAVIE
yjAAtcuik
IJ
SpMSWORCESTEWg I .
AiUTs IN »U T»l ■’‘O* ll
,^IN«»i»NO.CAMAO* i J‘ , I J' , I#*
jri'A'ti* SOUTH AHealCA*"'
IRS IN THE* UnTtEOKINC/QO” 'JS&
* 4 * l « teuton uxamucw.
HOLBROOKS
SAUCE
E 1.2.7,.2.7,
The Bulletin
S. H. Prior Memorial Prize Award
Vol. 60.—N0. 3106.
Wednesday, August 23, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free, to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Judges’ Award, 1939.
We recommend that the Fifth (1939) S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize be awarded to
WHO WAS JOSEPH FURPHY?
but without accumulations, and that the fol-
lowing (the list is in alphabetical order, not
necessarily order of merit) be commended:
AUSTRALIA’S MAJOR POETS
BULLAWARRA
THE PAPUAN ACHIEVEMENT
WORDS OF THE EARTH
We should like to add that manuscript No.
62 would certainly have been awarded the prize,
and with accumulations, if it had been sent in
a complete state, documented and with all the
references checked and corrected.
H. M. Green.
Frank Dalby Davison.
Louis Esson.
The authors of WHO WAS JOSEPH
FURPHY ? are Miles Franklin, 26 Grey-street,
Carlton, N.S.W., and Kate Baker, 47 Pascoe-
street, Williamstown, Vic.
Names and addresses of writers whose
manuscripts were commended are : —
“Australia’s Major Poets”: T. Inglis
Moore, 9 Karuah-road, Turramurra, N.S.W.
“Bullawarra”: Eric Lowe, 79 Pitt-street,
Sydney.
“The Papuan Achievemenf ’: Lewis Lett,
Port Moresby, Papua.
“Words of the Earth” : A. W. Ashworth,
Buralyang, via Barmedman, N.S.W.
An announcement in connection with the
1940 S. H. Prior Prize will be made in next
week’s Bulletin (Aug. 30).
ttund'vTUffi
This Book
FREE to YOU
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free 10pp. Illustrated
Penmanship Prospectus explaining your Muscular Movement System of
Writing, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B. JL39
The Red Page
"ANZAC SQUAWK."
It was the word “Anzac” that drew my eye,
printed large in a sheet I hadn’t seen before. The
headline read, “Anzac Exec Visions Ambish.” New
York in the date line was a clue, and the front page
disclosed that the paper was “Variety,” devoted to
news of radio, screen and stage. Gumption suggested
that the headline intimated that an Australian film
producer had been interviewed on the subject of his
hopes for the industry in Australia. This supposition
proved correct —or should I write, “supposish 0.K.”?
“Variety’s” style made an interesting change from
crossword puzzles. Careful perusal of a half-column
under the heading “Quints Must Parlez Anglais for
20-Fox; Ires Canuck Gov’t” disclosed that the
Canadian Government is indignant at learning that
the French-speaking Dionne quintuplets will have to
study English under the terms of their contract with
the Twentieth Century Fox Film Company. A banner
headline, “Blast Hoodlum Pix-Radio,” means that a
conference of clergymen, Boy Scout leaders and
juvenile-court officials passed a resolution condemn-
ing gangster films and radio broadcasts of similar type
(crimers). Apparently the press supported the idea.
An exhibitor who defended such items of entertain-
ment “landed himself a scad of type lavishly spread
under a three-column headline.” A protracted discus-
sion, by the way, is a “talkathon.”
“Pic’s Biog Rush Has Lawyers Jumpy” means
that a current outbreak of biographical films, with
resulting suits for libel —of which De Lesseps’s de-
scendants’ case in respect of “Suez” is an instance —
has the film company lawyers going over scripts with
a microscope for possible grounds for action. “Touchy
relatives bugaboos to studios” is a racy way of put-
ting it. Under the heading “Frisco Has 8.0. Fog,
but No Biz,” a San Francisco contributor begins with
the succinct remark “Biz is still on the skids here.” It
appears that though ’Frisco was under fog for some
days, which usually drives the populace to the picture
houses, there was a counter-attraction in the shape of
a Folies Bergeres show. It knocked the pic exhibs cold.
The importance of the Australian film trade to
America is indicated by the. following quite simple
triple-tier headline, “N. S. Wales Exhibs Blame
Shortage of Quality Pictures from Hollywood for
Box-office Collapse Down Under.” Too much slap-
stick is blamed. “Early slapstick copped a take but
the rest slithered by the wayside.”
“Cincy Has Alibis, But Durbin Big 14G Despite
’Em” means that Cincinnati is explaining why busi-
ness is bad, but that box-office receipts for the Durbin
picture “Three Smart ran to 4000 dollars for
the week, notwithstanding. “Cincy’s” explanations
of scanty audiences are seasonal in character and
introduce a charming domestic note: * “Cincy exhibs
are consoling themselves with these alibis : Early-
Eastcr shopping ; real estate and auto tax-paying time ;
pre-seasonal warmth plus spring house-cleaning ; home
lawn and garden chores.” I like also “Variety’s” com-
plete candor, as evidenced in an enthusiastic write-up
from Philadelphia headed “Philly Biz Blah.”
Australian writers should be interested to know
that “Writers, Producers Near Embracing” is a hyper-
bolical intimation that the log presented to the pro-
ducers by the Hollywood fiction-writers’ union is pretty
close to being accepted. And musical people should
be gratified to learn that “H’Wood Bally Hypes Stoki’s
Podium B.O.” “Stoki” is Leopold Stokowski, leader
of the Philadelphia Symphony Orchestra. “B.O.”
here changes from its customary meaning ; taken to-
gether with “Podium” it refers to Stokowski’s box-
office receipts from his regular orchestral concerts.
These, so the first three words imply, have greatly
benefited from his appearances on the screen.
“Variety” is no side-street publication, but a
leader of its kind. Right in the front of one number
is a facsimile letter from President Roosevelt—in
English—wishing the paper long life in its good work.
Anyone who thinks I may have made an unfair
selection of lines can amuse himself with these:
“Tough Sales Grind Looms” ; “Nat Platt and Frau
Readying for Coast Trip” ; “Whyfore of UA’s Pro-
duct Scramble” ; “Merchants Support Philly Indies’
Plea for Better Clearance on Novel Theory Timber
Pix Get Good Biz.”
A second Australian complaint of bad pictures
from Hollywood is elegantly headed “Anzac Squawk.”
D.
Slessor's "Five Bells."
The explosive power of the consonant “b” is fully
recognised in the less polite ranges of language, but
Kenneth Slessor is perhaps the first writer to exploit
it to the full in poetry. If English lacked its “b” he
would have had to adopt an entirely new set of images,
both serious and comic, for his most delicate effects
come from bubbles and bells, and his broader fan-
tasies are centred on bumps and bumpkins. Two good
examples can be found in extracts quoted by Ronald
McCuaig in a recent Red Page article on Slessor’s
earlier verse, the humorous
Country towns, with your willows and squares
And farmers bouncing on barrel mares,
and the lovely
Cold, cold are the birds, that, bubbling out of night,
Cried once to my ears their unremembered tune.
In his new booklet Five Bells (decorated by
Norman Lindsay and published by Frank C. Johnson,
Ltd., Sydney, at the praiseworthy price of two shillings)
the consonant still swarms. Eleven lines of the title
poem hive the words beat, bawl, bells, bumpkin, bones,
beer, buttons —a motley collection when the words
are dragged out of their context, but effective in the
poem, and an indication of Slessor’s command of a
homely, Rabelaisian imagery.
As in the earlier works, Slessor appears in Five
Bells in two roles, the humorist or satirist and the
serious poet. The satirist is savage in the lines on
Samuel Marsden with his “litany of whips,” lightly
mocking and self-mocking in the opening of the
address to Hugh McCrae, whom he compares to
Uncles who burst on childhood, from the East,
Blown from air, like bearded ghosts arriving;
and comic as usual in his rural observations:
But this gaunt country, filled with mills and saws,
With butter-works and railway stations
And public institutions
And scornful rumps of cows.
The lighter poems bounce in full daylight; the
serious poems, partly because of Slessor’s preoccupa-
tion with Sydney Harbor, partly because it is the way
he sees reality, move in a cold submarine light, sug-
gesting, in “Last Trams” and “Sleep” as well as in
the memorial “Five Bells,” some netherworld* to
which the door is death. One looks from the windows
of the last trams:
And shapes look out, or bodies pass,
Between the darkness and the flare,
Between the curtain and the glass,
Of men and women moving there.
In “Sleep,” with its ingenious alliterations and internal
rhymes, somewhat reminiscent of Robert Graves’s
technique:
And you shall cling and clamber there
And slumber there, in that dumb chamber,
Beat with my blood’s beat, hear my heart move....
And the end of “Five Bells”:
I looked out of my window in the dark
At waves with diamond quills and combs of light
That arched their mackerel-backs and smacked the sand
In the moon’s drench, that straight, enormous glaze,
And ships far off asleep, and Harbor-buoys
Tossing their fireballs wearily, each to each,
And tried to hear your voice, but all I heard
Was a boat’s whistle, and the scraping squeal
Of seabirds’ voices far away, and bells,
Five bells. Five bells coldly ringing out.
When it is crammed with such uncompromisingly
real objects as trousers in pawnshop windows and
the hindquarters of cows, it is not easy to show that
Slessor’s satiric verse is less actual than his twilight
poems, yet with all its merits it has a literary glaze
that weakens its impact. But when trees look like
“rain gone wooden,” or a man is drowned in
“memory, the flood that does not flow,” or a metal
civilisation streams along the tramlines to the dark-
ness with its “sickness of carbon,” the images strike
home with the directness of true poetry.
Curiosities in Africa.
W. R. Leigh’s Frontiers of Enchantment (Harrap ;
Angus and Robertson), about American naturalists
and the native fauna in Africa, is a book that bounds
with enthusiasm. “We met at the appointed hour, and
Akeley told me he wanted the whole-hearted co-
operation of the greatest artist he could get,” Leigh
remarks pleasantly of his engagement by the natural-
ist Carl Akeley as artist on a museum expedition to
the Dark Continent. .
And Akeley, too, is introduced with a flourish.
He had discovered a new way of stuffing animals and,
says the artist, “rumors of his accomplishments spread.
The Field Museum in Chicago summoned him. It
was from there that this extraordinary man first com-
pelled the notice of a preoccupied world.”
But some of the world still focused its attention
on its trivial affairs, and Akeley, with his dream of
mounting animals in their habitat groups, met with
continued “cynical scepticism and hostility” ; at last,
happy to say, “with the purest logic and soundest
taste he routed his opponents.” Opposition diminished,
“the financial lords of the community, the press, the
intelligence of the nation began to be stirred.” And
success didn’t stop short on the shores of America.
At the end of one more paragraph, “the possibilities
of the habitat group began to dawn on the minds
of men.”
With their capacities thus freely revealed, these
two stalwart sons of Uncle Sam, sitting in a tent in
the middle of Africa, decided —“frankly,” as Leigh
justly puts it —“I know you and I together could make
it the finest thing of its kind in the world.” As Akeley
had observed on the previous page, “only masters can
adequately handle the problems involved.”
It wouldn’t be fair to suggest that Leigh’s enthu-
siasm is confined to himself, his chief and the habitat
group scheme. The minute he got the “genius of
Africa” to himself, he “flung out his arms” and
cuddled it.
Contemplating the livestock, too, he is moved to
rapture. A lizard, six inches long, is stalking a grass-
hopper :
With consummate cunning and skill the little killer
crept nearer, while the unsuspecting prey chirruped
merrily, blithely waving his antennae, oblivious of
danger. The lizard paused, gathered himself, and then
propelled his body like a tiny rocket, landing on top
of the grasshopper Here in miniature I saw enacted
one of those' terrific scenes of the dim Cretaceous
period, when the monstrous tyrannosaurus, leaping into
the air, descended upon the defenceless duck-billed
trachodon.
The baboons, watching Leigh as he studied the
grasshopper and thought about his duck-billed friend,
kept saying “Oho! Oho! Oho!”
It was a remark not altogether justified, for, among
the animals, Leigh is genuinely interested and
genuinely interesting. He watches monkeys doing
their trapeze act from bough to bough through the
forest at breakneck speed; he meets gorillas and
hippopotami; he describes pygmies hunting elephants,
native herdsmen fencing with lions that have leaped
into the corral, the cunning and ferocity of the black
buffalo, the ghoulish battles of hyenas and jackals and
foxes over the carcass of a dead beast. At a remote
lake he saw something of fantastic beauty—thousands
of flamingoes, in groups about a mile long, forming
bright pink patterns on the glimmering water. The
book is illustrated with a great many excellent pen-
and-ink drawings of animals and landscapes.
O'Faolaln Writes a Play.
Sean O’Faolain, novelist, story-teller, biographer
and student of the Gaelic, has, as the Irish litterateur
inevitably does, tried his hand at a play, She Had to
Do Something (Cape), a light comedy and something
more. It is a conglomerate; farce of the inconse-
quential French kind, a series of burlesque situations
tossed energetically over the footlights—full of sur-
prise hits, volte-faces, epigrams and miscellaneous buf-
foonery. The story itself is pure farce.
Maxine, a vivacious Frenchwoman, is tethered to
a small Irish provincial town where Patrick Arnold,
her husband, is church organist. To vary the intoler-
able monotony Of life she —aided and abetted by her
lively daughter Julie —tries one sort of social dynamite
after another. This time it is a third-rate Russian
ballet, which she has brought to the town for a week’s
season.
She has persuaded her friends to guarantee the
necessary £2OO. The ballet arrives and the church, in
the person of Canon Kane, bans it. The young men
of the village make a purity demonstration. The
guarantors withdraw their support, the ballet is turned
out of the hotel because it can’t pay its bill. Its
members pile in on top of the Arnolds. Julie -spends
the night in the park with the leading dancer, Peter
Petroff, and ends up in gaol after fighting in the street
with another woman —congratulating herself the while
on a grand release from all the inhibitions.
Everyone gets mixed up with everyone else, and
amid the turmoil the Canon and the Frenchwoman
wage the battle of puritanism and art. The Canon
wins. He buys off Patrick Arnold by promising to
raise his salary with back money. Madame relaxes
and begins to plan how they will spend the money —
a trip to Paris, freedom for Julie —only to discover
that it will all have to be spent in getting rid of the
ballet. The commotion gradually dies down. No
bones have been broken after all. Maxine reflects
cheerfully that at any rate the Canon hasn’t found
(“Red Page” continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
- t*
* <1!
AT EiOHT VVJ
dinner
I
wmmm
ST
mm
,v,.,...-...
%
im?*****
mm
in
-
«£:
illWiW
MAJOR
COOKERS
HEAT STORAGE
FOR MODERN KITCHENS
Anyone can be an expert with the "Esse" Heat
Storage Cooker. It will produce excellent baking
results, because it is one of the most dependable
Cookers made. The "Esse" gives you new com-
pactness to save floor space, new economy to
reduce fuel bills, new labour saving features and
extra strength. The "Esse" Premier with auxil-
iary oven is designed for larger residences
and it burns ordinary gas coke continuously,
thus daily re - lighting is eliminated. At
Anthony Horderns'. PRICE £175/-/-
OTU/ruA;
AS NEW AS TOMORROW
The "Esse" Minor Heat Storage Cooker provides delicious cooking and has
larger ovens, boiling and simmering space than supplied in any other
Cooker designed for kitchens of modest proportions. Burning ordinary gas
coke continuously, the "Esse" Minor provides an efficient and economical
method of cooking which reduces expenditure on fuel by several pounds
annually. At Anthony Horderns'. PRICE £lOO/10/-
Smaller models also available. Prices from .... £75
r
S2S
f
i
L
//
The COMPLETE COOKER
• Domestic models fitted
with Thermostat heat control .
• These cookers are also
available with hot water unit .
LUE NOZZLt
BOILING PLATE & HEAT ACCUMULATOR
BOLSTER OR COVER FOR RETAINING
HEAT
INSPECTION PLU
TOP PLATE
FUEL HOPPER
THERMOSTAT
j
ASHPIT
The illustration at the left points out the principal technical features of
the "ESSE" PREMIER Heat Storage Cooker. The fire never comes into
direct contact with the oven sides or with the food. The right amount
of heat is distributed to each part of the Cooker by controlled radiation
and conduction, and is retained by heavy insulation. The indestruct-
ible Heat Accumulator is of immense thickness. Only the best materials
are used, and the design of the Cooker contributes to its hard-wearing
qualities. The insulating material is enduring and the "ESSE" Cooker
throughout is built to give permanent, efficient service.
DEMONSTRATION DAILY IN THE KITCHENWARE DEPT.-
GROIJND FLOOR—PITT STREET. Booklet Sent on Request.
• “Esse" Cookers —Lower Ground Floor —Pitt Street. Delivered free only within our
delivery area. Installation extra, according to locality.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
'Phone M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C G.P.0., Sydney


A Plaything of "The System”
OUT OF THE
PAST
J .H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
THE TREADMILL.
IN his old days Timothy Scantlebury, a member of
the Legislative Council after the inauguration of
responsible government in New South Wales, and
a rich retired storekeeper, used often to laugh at
the many amusing things that had happened to him
in his youth.
But he didn’t laugh at them at the time by any
manner of means. They were not amusing.
There was nothing funny in the story of a poor Surrey
yokel who had snared a rabbit under a hedge and
been himself snared under the deck of a convict trans- '
port sailing him off to the Antipodes from all he ever
cared about. Nor was there anything to laugh about
in the actual acquiring of that horrible degree of learn-
ing called Colonial Experience.
Those first five years changed him, and thousands
like him, from simple adolescents into hard, stiff men
with as little mercy to their fellows left in their souls
as had been dealt out to them in the police courts, the
Lumber Yard, the iron-gangs, the stockades on the
mountain roads, the Limeburners’ Camp at the Coal
River, or the Treadmill at Carter’s Barracks. There
had been nothing amusing about it all in those days.
It was only when as an old man Tim Scantlebury
could drive in his carriage along roads to whose con-
struction he had contributed aching, sweating, driven
days and perishing nights of hungry misery in windy
huts, or go and hire servants in the Immigration Bar-
racks where formerly in its convict depot days his own
labor had been bargained for without any terms of
wages and hours and conditions of toil, that he could
afford to smile at the recollection.
There wasn’t an experience he couldn’t vividly
recall —the Sessions House, Newgate, the transport
Admiral Gambier and her stinking ’tween-decks, the
sunny morning they came up Port Jackson and the
sudden realisation of slavery when settlers came aboard
in Sydney Cove and handled their muscles as if they
had been draughthorses. The harshness of the Prin-
cipal Superintendent of Convicts’ welcome when he'd
tersely announced “We’ll give you hell,” the bloody
nose he’d dealt out to his first master and the bloody
sore back he got for it, the stockade at Castle Hill,
were still all quite fresh in his memory.
of these remembrances of bygone evil only
made Tim Scantlebury laugh in later days, but
there was one which always made him swear.
“The horrible uselessness of it!” he’d say. “We
ground wheat, but it was better ground in the wind-
mills, and cheaper. Convict labor cost nothing they
said? By God it did! It cost the country all that was
worth anything while it lasted. Nothing cheap about
slavery. That bloody Treadmill!”
He recalled the day when the Police Magistrate
gave him three months of the Treadmill at Carter’s
Barracks up beyond the Brickfields. An infernal
place, a devilish machine. The Treadmill stood for
all that was worst in the dying convict system, all that
made men into brutes and denied them any hope of
salvation. The inexorable dulling, grinding, walking
upstairs and never getting to the landing at the top —
there had been nothing so paralysing in all the history
of “the System.” Brutish, senseless, useless!
It was a sunny morning in September, with the
smell of the wattles in Hyde Park and cottage gardens
along the streets, when Tim Scantlebury and a dozen
others had walked out of the watch-house, under a
guard of a corporal and three soldiers with fixed
bayonets, to go to Carter’s Barracks.
“Well, Corporal Martin,” said the doorkeeper as
he admitted them into the barracks, “another little
lot, hey? More steam for the engine! But, Gawd
save us, what a han’ful o’ scrags! W’y can’t ye get
in a few likely customers once in a way?”
The guard marched off and the door closed behind
Tim Scantlebury and his mates, and presently came
the Superintendent, Mr. Michael Merton, to call the
roll and take stock of his labor reinforcement. Not
too highly delighted did he seem to be with its collec-
tive appearance.
“Lord!” he remarked, whilst Doorkeeper Martin
nodded approval and agreement. “A day in the stocks
is about all the ’ard work most of you coveys is fit
for. Well, come on in, an’ we‘ll see what y’re made of.”
In the big shed at the back where the treadmills
were, its inside almost dazzling with fresh whitewash,
the crews of the two mills had been
having a brief spell whilst the Super-
intendent took over his new charges.
“Now, then, get to it again,” he
commanded. “You new lot can
watch for a shift an’ see how it
works. Your turn'll come next. An’
just remember that any loafin’ in the
Held him up until a boat saved us.
game’ll take you to Hyde Park Barracks with a recom-
mendation for a Botany Bay dozen. Ye’ve got to
earn y’r rations at Carter’s, an’ ye’d best larn it sooner
than later.”
The prisoners slouched to the four big drums,
something like the enormous paddle-wheels of the
steamships of the day. They stood against the rear
wall of the shed and their axles went though holes in
the two ends of it to turn the grinding machinery
outside. Each treadmill consisted of two drums side
by side, and the steps trodden by the men who worked
them were stout boards about nine inches apart. In
front of each drum, and close to its circumference,
was a horizontal wooden bar which the prisoner
grasped with both hands. The larger mill employed
thirty-six men, eighteen on a drum, and the smaller
twenty, divided into two lots of ten. A shift on the big
mill lasted for thirty-six minutes, when the gang was
relieved by another lot for twenty-four. On the smaller
the working period in each hour was forty minutes,
with twenty minutes’ rest. Between August 30, 1824,
and January 15, 1825, the two mills ground 657,765
pounds of grain.
“We watched the old hands,” said Tim Scantle-
bury, “and some of ’em seemed to fare better than
others, somehow. Like every other sort of hard work
there was a trick in it for those who knew how to
play it. It didn’t amount to much, though. On the
mill you simply had to keep moving, and to try to
dodge doing your share was almost as hard as really
doing it. To some extent you could obtain a little
ease by supporting your weight on the horizontal-bar
you grasped with both hands and letting your mates
do most of the treading, but the overseers soon got
to mark any men who did that, and punished the
whole crew equally by increasing the pace, shouting
out ‘One, two, one, two,’ as the men’s feet pressed
down the steps.
“Then if the overseer in charge thought some
men were taking it easy he would spell a few of
those who were doing their bit—just call ’em down
to the floor —and let the loafers keep the mill turning.
There weren’t many ways you could dodge work at
Carter’s, and you wouldn’t dodge it long.”
So Tim and his comrades in adversity grasped
the bar and began their grinding. The roar and rumble
of the huge, clumsy machinery shook the shed, and
the noise of the slowly-revolving mill wheels outside
kept up a constant din terrifying in its monotonous
regularity.
At first the work did not seem so hard, but after
half of their spell was over the newcomers began to
realise that labor on the roads, or labor anywhere
else, was a diversion compared with this. They
sweated and gasped, and the perspiration ran into
their eyes, but still the great wheels went round and
round, and the ceaseless din smote their eardrums
until they felt like bursting. When the end of their
spell on the steps came, the overseer yelled, “Relief!”
The great wheels did not slow down or cease to
turn —the men simply dropped off their perches at
the wooden rail and the next
shift, standing by in readiness,
took their places.
Freed from the constant
stepping and downward thrust
of their feet on the moving
treads, their legs gave under
them, and not a few of them
tumbled down on hands and
knees as they came off the
wheel. Never in his life, old
Tim used to say, had thirty-
six minutes seemed so long, or
the twenty-four while they
rested so short and fleeting.
Stiff and cramped and
aching, they resumed their
trampling toil at the end of the
spell, and the second shift was
twice as back as the first, and
the third and subsequent turns
almost too terrible to remem-
ber. When dinner-time came,
and the hideous din and up-
roar ceased for an hour, he
was too weary to want food.
They could please themselves
about eating the rough rations
provided in the big messroom


WANTED :
New Story Writers
Each month “The Bulletin” is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in "The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short—1500 t'o 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates —
£2 2s. for each 1100 words.
Closing date for the third monthly com-
petition is September 7. The sooner entries are
sent in the sooner they can be read and the
judging completed.
alongside the shed, but promptly at one o’clock they
went back to the ever-descending steps and the griprail.
The uproar and clatter began again, and all through the
afternoon the rumble of the great engines went on
without stopping, and they worked and sweated in a
kind of semi-conscious daze, their clothing damp with
sweat and their muscles one interminable ache.
When he came down for the last time that day
Tim Scantlebury fell in a heap on the floor, and only
the heavy boot of the overseer could bring him to
his feet again. He hardly knew how he shuffled out
of the shed and into the messroom for the scanty
bowl of hominy and chunk of coarse bread that was
the evening meal.
“There was only one mercy,” he would say.
“Water wasn’t stinted. You could drink as much as
you liked, dipping it out of a big wooden tub that was
kept full almost to the brim. ’ At first you drank
gallons of it. Later on, when you got hardened a
bit, you didn’t drink so much. By the time my three
months was up I’d have, say, only one drink in the
forenoon and one after dinner. But I was pretty
tough by that time—tougher than I’d ever been before
or have been since.”
T'HE mental effect of the treadmill seems to have
* been peculiar. After months of the monotonous
labor they were hard as nails bodily, but they were
dazed and uncertain of themselves in the unusual quiet
when their sentences came to an end, and it took a
week or two to recover their balance and become ordi-
nary human beings again.
“We missed that infernal row,” said Tim —all this
came me from an old man whom he used to enter-
tain as a youth with his tales of the early days—“and
at first didn’t seem to be able to get along without
it. We were almost too bewildered by the quietness
of things to think about what we’d been through. But
when we got back to our ordinary selves, the feeling
that got me was one of a most tremendous hatred for
the Treadmill, and for all who had to do with it.
“I hated the Police Magistrate who’d sent me
there, I hated the Superihtendent of Carter’s Barracks,
I hated the other prisoners who’d worked there with
me —but most of all I hated Overseer Clancy, the
chap who’d been in charge of the relief I’d belonged
to. As soon as I came to myself I began to nurse
a particular hatred for that little red-headed Irish-
man. There was nothing I wasn’t ready to do to
Clancy. Nothing at all. Actually, I began to plot
and contrive how I could do Clancy in. Murder.
That was what I was thinking about.
“He’d been a perfect devil to me. For some
reason best known to himself, I must have been a sort
of red rag to a bull to Overseer Clancy. He seenied to
hate the very sight of me from our first meeting the
morning I came with the others to Carter’s Barracks.
“ ‘As for you, ye big ugly gossoon,’ he said to
me when he was taking our names, ‘l’ll make ye shweat
blood afoor I’ve done wid ye. Ye’ll not forgit Paddy
Clancy in a hurry, me bhoyo—that ye won’t.’ ' I
didn’t. I’ve never forgotten him.”
Tim Scantlebury seems always to have been a
good fellow, and one whom other men couldn’t help
liking. He was not a convict long. The little bit
of hasty insubordination in the Lumber Yard that had
landed him on the Treadmill was never repeated, and
in another three months he had his ticket again, and
in two years a conditional pardon, which meant that
he was altogether free in New South Wales, but
couldn’t go back to England. However, in five years
he was completely at liberty, and might go where he
chose. But he stayed in Australia, and was never
sorry for it.
“And did he get even with Clancy?” I asked his
old friend.
“Well, he said he didn’t —but I always thought he
did.
“More than fifteen years after he’d had his experi-
ence of Carter’s Barracks, Tim was storekeeping at
Clarence Town, on the Williams River, and had to
come down to Sydney on some business matter or
other. In those days he had to go overland to the
Green Hills at the head of navigation on the Hunter,
and there catch the steamer for Sydney. The packet
left in the morning, about eight o’clock, made a call
at Newcastle before putting to sea, and arrived in
Sydney at the end of the day. Tim rode across coun-
try from Clarence Town, stayed the night at one of
the Green Hills inns, and went aboard in the morning.
As soon as he got up on deck the very first fellow he
saw was Mr. Patrick Clancy, and, though he’d never
seen him since he left Carter’s Barracks, Tim said he
felt all the old hatred revive, and used to swear that
he immediately made up his mind to push the Irishman
overboard somehow as soon as they got to sea.
“ ‘Watch him?’ he said to me. ‘I think I did watch
him! You can’t have any idea as to how I felt about
that man ; I’d not forgotten a single thing. All the
misery the fellow had put me through came back to
me as strong as if it had happened only yesterday.
I loathed the very sight of him, and what I’d like to
have done as we were steaming down the river to
Newcastle was to have walked up to him as he stood
smoking there on deck, taken him round the throat
and neck with my two hands and carried him to the
rail for’ard of one of the steamer’s paddle-boxes.
Then I’d have said to him, just before I dropped him
overboard to be chewed up by the paddle, ‘There’s
another sort of a wheel for you to try, Mister Clancy.
I hope you’ll like it!
“ ‘But I reckoned I had to go careful,’ Tim said.
‘I wasn’t long married, and didn’t want to be hanged
for murder. So I made up my mind to do the job
A dozen of them, a handful of scrags —more
fuel for the engine.
delicately. It mightn’t be quite as satisfactory, but
’twould be safer for me. I’d have to make up to him
and get him down in the boat’s starn, where I might
have a chance of emptying him into the ocean when
no one was looking. It would be dark before we got
to Sydney Heads, and somewhere down there would
do. I could tip the little fellow over and get away
from the steamer in Sydney before he was missed.
“ ‘So I talked with him,’ Tim said, ‘and found him
quite a good companion. He seemed a lot milder and
pleasanter than when we were at Carter’s Barracks
long before. We drank together at the steward’s little
bar in the saloon, and took a couple of bottles on
deck and drank ’em down in the starn by the rail.
It began to get dusk when we were off Broken Bay,
and was quite dark as we began to turn round North
Head. I got him to the rail, a-looking down at the
steamer’s wake, all aglow with phosphorescence. And
then I took him by the collar of the coat and the slack
of his pantaloons and tipped him into the sea. As he
grabbed at the rail and hung there a moment, he cried
out “I can’t swim!” but I banged his fingers with
my fist, and he dropped into the creamy foam.’ ”
“ ‘And he drowned, I suppose?’ I said to Tim.
“ ‘No,’ he said, shaking his head. ‘Y’ see, I hadn’t
quite recovered from the Treadmill, even after all
those years. I was still a bit barmy, I think. I
jumped in, too, and held him up until a boat saved
us. A man never quite gets over that damned Tread-
mill.’ ”
ATTACKED AT DAWN
BY LES ROBINSON.
ALTHOUGH it is bitterly cold and not yet day-
light I am still in bed, and, what’s more, am
glad my clock has stopped and intend staying
there for two solid hours at least. Do I realise
that heaps of my fellow men and women are already
at work, or up and about making the few rapid and
necessary preparations which will enable them to
catch early morning boats, trains, buses or trams?
Their example is lost on me.
If I was a milkman, I’d have been up and noisily
busy hours ago. Look at the motor-cars they are
able to buy! If a soldier, I’d be up and tripping over
tent-ropes, getting in the way of tanks, field-guns,
ammunition wagons and intending belligerents on
both sides. If a sailor, I’d be hosing down and holy-
stoning decks, polishing brasswork or trying to avoid
colliding with ferries. If a street-sweeper, I’d have
finished the whole of George-street by this time. If
a farmer, I’d be holding a lantern at this very minute
so that pigs, cows and other livestock could see to eat.
“Very soon now it will be daylight,” the voice of
conscience continues, reproachfully. “You cannot
hope to conquer the world, you know, by lying in bed.
Mussolini and Hitler were up hours ago, probably,
annexing countries inhabited by people who, lulled
into restfulness by peace, non-intervention and anti-
aggression promises and pacts, were, like you, sleep-
ing their heads off. Snore, snore, snore! That’s all
you can do. What have you ever done to earn the
right to lie in bed? Nothing whatsoever, so, by wil-
fully enjoying privileges which have not been well
earned and to which, therefore, you are not entitled,
you are little better, actually, than an embezzler or a
parasite. Your idea that if it wasn’t for bed-lovers (a
euphemism on your part for sluggards like yourself)
fewer beds would be required, and, in consequence,
manufacturers would be subjected to loss, inconveni-
ence and the discomforts of compulsory economy and
self-denial, is nothing more than one of those trans-
parent and specious attempts to justify yourself at
which you excel.
“What is the use of all these night-long talks of
mine to you? You never alter. You even have the
impertinence to dream as well while I’m admonishing
you. And of what do you dream? Never of arduous
toil. Never of progress or achievement. Never of
anything sensible. All your chimeras are inconsequent
and futile. At this very moment you are probably
dreaming of finding ambergris or buried treasure ; of
peering through the plate-glass windows of a diving-
bell at the bottom of the sea ; of slipping, sliding,
climbing, falling; of being pursued by entomologists,
fossil-hunters, keepers, warders, park-rangers, alterers,
examiners and adjusters. If an astrologer told you,
or an evening paper prophesied, that the world would
enc } w ithin the next ten minutes, you wouldn’t leap
OU f 0 f bed. You’d lie there trying to devise a means
c f ncd being amo ng those destined to be inconveni-
enced by the disaster »
j haye just remembered> wilh a sigh o( relief .
(hat Sund
.. whichthe voice of conscience severely ,
„ . , t . u ~ , ,
as you only became aware of it by accident and know
weU that other d in the week might be
abo y ut t 0 dawn inst y adj is n 0 excuse whatever ."
~ , ,
. Birda are now 'witter,ng and there are other mdi-
cations that a way of preventing day .rom rea ing
as not een thought of during the night. Althoug
the voice of conscience, more abusive than ever, vvith
tireless persistence seemingly, and almost fanatical
zeal, still continues to enumerate bitterly and expatiate
upon my superabundant shortcomings, I nevertheless
succeed in adding to my infamy by falling sound
asleep.


THE
FAR
ACRE
BY J. SOMERVILLE BEST.
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY.
THEY called him “Old Peas Jefferson” or “Peas
Almighty,” and made jokes about him behind his
back. He knew that, but he didn’t care. He’d
grown a bed of peas that beat them all. Two
hundred bushels he’d pulled off it; and got six to
eleven bob a bushel all round.
He marched into the store with the air of a con-
queror, a little shrivelled mite of a man, his right
shoulder drawn forward in a perpetual droop from
long years of hoeing. The storekeeper remembered
how in the old days, before he grew his peas, when
he was just a laborer working around for his neigh-
bors, he used to shuffle in shyly, as if he thought he
had no right to be there.
“A good worker,” they’d always said of him,
“and a first-rate man with the hoe.” Then he began
to get old, and jobs were not so frequent; and he
settled down with his married daughter, giving his
son-in-law “a hand about the place.” That was how
he came to grow his bed o’ peas.
He nodded to the group of gossips round the
door and went to the counter to give his weekly order:
“Two ounces of the usual.”
They had their weekly joke when Simpson
reached down the wrong brand of tobacco.
“What —that stuff?” he snorted. “Wouldn’t spoil
a good pipe!”
“WqII, I dunno. Some of them reckon it’s better,
than the other.”
“Who reckons it is?”
“Well, Barney Crockett for one”
“Him? He don’t know a good smoke when he
gets it.”
“He knew a good girl,” said Simpson slyly, “when
he went after your Mary.”
“He did that. But he didn’t get her. Maybe I
wouldn’t’ve had me bed o’ peas if she’d married
Barney Crockett.”
Thought of his peas made him feel rich and ex-
travagant. “I’ll take a box o’ them bon-bon things
for Mary. She likes somethink sweet to chew while
she’s listening in on that wireless set I give her.”
“Pay for them now? Or”
“Book it up,” said the old man with a wave of
his hand. It gave him a sense of importance to pay
his small account regularly every month.
He opened the new tin of tobacco and filled his
pipe, moving slowly towards the group by the door.
They were talking about beans; Brown Beauty
versus Canadian Wonder. He listened in silence, look-
ing from one to another. Having settled the question
of type in favor of Brown Beauty, the conversation
passed to fertilisers. There was his chance. He piped
up happily: “When I grew that bed o’ peas four
years ago”
He told them what kind of fertiliser he used, and
how much of it, and how many tins he pulled to the
row ; ending up with a resume of prices at different
periods and a modest reference to the prize he won
in the local Show.
One by one the group dispersed. The old man
found himself left alone With Barney Crockett. He
looked him up and down with a hint of patronage in
his pale old gaze. “Well, young feller, how are they
treatin’ you?”
“Oh, not so bad. No use growling. Plenty of
work to do and not much to show for it.”
The old man nodded. “Mary and Hugh was
down by your place on Sunday afternoon. Hugh said
the couch was gettin’ away from you.”
The big fellow flushed darkly. “That’s all right
about Hugh. I ain’t got cheap labor to keep my place
clean.” >
The old man shuffled his feet uneasily. There d
been quite a few of these allusions lately. He didn’t
know exactly what they meant. “What d’you mean
—cheap labor?” he mumbled.
“You, you poor old mutt! You’re always blow-
ing about Hugh and what a good sort he is. Can’t
you see how he’s making use of you? I’ll bet his
place wouldn’t be so spick and span if he didn’t have
you to do his hoeing for him.”
“Well, o’ course I give ’im a hand about the
place.”
“I’ll say. And what’s he ever given you, that’s
what I’d like to know?”
“Give me all I want,” said the old man defen-
sively. “A bed, an’ tucker”
“Reckon he might do that for his wife’s father
anyway.”
“And give me me bed o’ peas!” he thrust in tri-
umphantly. “He give me the far acre to grow me bed
o’ peas.”
Barney Crockett laughed scornfully. “Yeah, and
why? Because it suited him. You don’t tell me he
done it out o’ the kindness of his heart. He knew,
same as the rest of us, that bit of ground wasn’t no
good to him or anyone else, all stumps and stones
and matted with couch the way it was. He let you
have it for a crop so’s he’d get it cleared. An’ as soon
as you’d done it he took it back again, didn’t he, and
put out a bed of trees. There’s your bloody good-
’earted son-in-law for you!”
The old man spluttered, groping for a retort.
What Barney said was right enough, no doubt; and
the shock of it was like a dash of cold water in his
face. But some deep spring of loyalty to his daugh-
ter’s husband welled up in him, urging him not to
show the shame and disappointment that he felt.
There was his chance: “When I grew that
bed o’ peas four years ago ”- He told them
what kind of fertiliser he used, and how much
of it, and how many tins he pulled to the row.
“Made use o’ me, did he?” He forced a hollow
chuckle. “Well, why shouldn’t he? That’s the way
to get on in the world. The trouble with most of you
young chaps to-day is you don’t make the best o
your opportoonities. Hugh’s a smart one, there s no
get out about it. An’ as for being good-’earted . . •
he’s good-’earted enough to suit me an his wife, an>-
ways.”
Having had the last word he called out Good
night” towards the group at the other end of the
counter and started for home. But with every yard
that he walked his step grew heavier and slower, and
his grey old head wagged the more sorrowfully. Hugh
was a smart one right enough ; too smart! He d made
a nice fool of him, and him so grateful to him over
the peas. He’d thought a lot of Hugh because of them
peas, and boasted about him, just like Barney said . . .
Well, there it was.
HE felt bad about it, right down bad. He’d been so
pleased and proud of his bed o’ peas, the only
crop he’d ever had for himself. Now all the shine was
gone off it, because he’d been made a fool of. That
was a nice thing for Mary’s husband to do to her old
pa. It was like a heavy cloud hanging over him.
Plodding drearily, he came in the twilight to that
“far acre” where the peas had been. There were trees
there now ; Valencias. Barney was right enough. As
soon as he’d got the ground in good condition Hugh d
taken it back and planted trees. And he wasn’t doing
too good with them, either, be cripes! A measiy-
lookin’ lot they were for four-year-olds. Wouldn’t
ever be much good, by the looks of them.
He leaned on the fence, surveying them moodily.
A nice block o’ ground since he cleaned it up. A bit
different now from the way it was when he took it
over. All stumps and stones and couch grass it had
been then, just like Barney said. Leaning there he
remembered how he’d worked at it. Ploughing and
cross-ploughing and harrowing and then ploughing
again.
Leaning on the fence with his pipe gone dead
between his teeth, he fell into a sort of trance of happy
memory ; feeling again the heat of the sun on his back.
He’d worked it up well and then whacked in the fer-
tiliser. Blood and bone he’d used, and plenty of it. . .
He paused in his thought and slapped his clenched
fist on the rail until it jumped. Be cripes, that’s what
was the matter with them trees! He’d warned Hugh,
now he came to think of it, but o’ course the boy
knew better. He’d put them in too soon on top o'
that manure. Well, serve ’im right. That’s what come
o’ being too darned smart . . .
He went back into his trance again. Long green
waves of vines ; two hundred bushels to the bed, and
six to eleven bob a bushel all round.
HE didn’t feel quite so badly as he turned and went
towards the house. The cloud was still there,
hanging over him ; but now the edges of it were lit
a little with remembered glory. He’d had a great time
growing that bed o’ peas . . .
There was a light in the living-room and he could
hear the wireless. Mary would be waiting for the
evening story. He came to the window and looked in
and saw her sitting in the big easy chair he’d bought
her. He’d been able to do a lot for her with the
money he’d made from his peas.
Hugh was sitting at the table,
frowning over some accounts. He
looked up and spoke to Mary. The
old man heard his voice against the
background of music.
“I can’t make out what’s wrong
with those young Valencias in the
far acre. They’re not doing a bit of
good and don’t look as if they ever
will”
He was going to march in and
say “I told you so.” But Hugh
took the words out of his mouth.
“I reckon what the old boy said
was right. I put them in too soon
on top of his manure.”
“And isn’t there anything you
can do to them?” Mary asked.
“Dig them out,” he said grimly.
“It’ll be best and cheapest in the
long run.”
“What a shame! But you 11
replant?”
“Some time or other, I hope.
We can’t run into any more ex-
pense just now. P’raps the old
man’d like to grow another bed of
peas.”
The old man’s heart leapt. The
cloud receded a little. Then slowly
he shook his head. Maybe if he
did grow more peas they wouldn’t do so well. Maybe
he was gettin’ a bit old for the game. Anyways,
orchard was a better proposition in the long run. It
Hugh replanted them Valencias he’d have a sure thing
for half a lifetime. What was a bed o’ peas, after all?
Here to-day and gone to-morrow. He stumped noisily
on to the verandah and appeared at the door.
o Continued on next page.)


Hugh looked up and nodded. Mary smiled. “Oh,
there you are, Pa. You’re just in time for the story.
Come and sit down.”
’A warm glow encompassed him. The cloud rolled
back a little more. She looked so pretty and happy
sitting there. Maybe it didn’t matter what Barney said.
Maybe he was just jealous.
He went inside and stood looking down at Hugh
with an impish grin. “I’ve just been out the far acre
havin’ a look at them young Valencias.”
Hugh grunted. “Not much to look at, are they?
I was just saying to Mary I think we’d better dig
them out.”
The old man said innocently, “I wonder what
happened to ’em. Must’ve been crook stock.”
“Too much manure on those blanky peas of
yours!” Hugh grinned sheepishly. “Now go ahead and
say you knew it all the time! ”
The last lingering shreds of resentment were
swallowed up in a wave of satisfaction. The cloud
dissolved in a blaze of sunset light. Maybe he wasn’t
such a fool after all! He said, “You replant that bed
and I’ll shout you the new trees.”
Hugh gasped, “I say!”
Mary cried: “Oh, Pa! You do so much for us.”
He sat down beside her and patted her hand.
‘ Well, that’s what I’m here for, ain’t it, to give you a
lift when I can? Here’s somethink I bought you out
of the money I got left over from me bed o’ peas.”
In good-humored exasperation Hugh exclaimed:
’“For the love o’ mike, Pa, aren’t we ever going to hear
the last of those peas?”
The old man looked at Mary and her wireless
and the box of bon-bons in her lap. He remembered
the far acre and the long green waves of vines. “Well,
anyways, they was a good bed o’ peas! ” he said.
A GAMBLER’S CHANCE
BY WILL LAWSON .
Of eighty-three souls on board the treasure
ship General Grant, lost on the Auckland
Islands in 1866, only fifteen succeeded in
making a landing on the ironbound coasts of
the islands. Of that fifteen, five eventually
were rescued through the means described in
this story.
THE lookout in the main hoops of the whaling
brig Amherst was watching the blue, foam-
capped, tossing seas for signs of whales, well
south of Stewart Island. Johnny Wain had
keen eyes. The young third mate, in the hoops with
Johnny to see that he did not doze off, had stronger
eyesight yet did not see what the old whaler saw' —
strange sea-birds, porpoise scarcely breaking water
in the jumble of seas, jumpers, grampus, spouts of
finback or sulphur-bottom whales, a marauding
shark or a killer ; not till Johnny pointed them out
did the young third mate see them, though he would
have spotted the sperm whales they were searching for
fast enough.
“There’s a big fish down there, just on the star-
board bow,” Johnny said. “I can see his track on
top.”
All the mate could see was a cauldron of wind-
swept waters till Johnny pointed out an elusive shadow
moving swiftly. Even then the mate was sceptical.
When a whale came up with a rush, blew a column
of spray and dived in a panic, he yelled: “Ah!
Blow! . . . Blackskin!”
Nobody on deck took any notice, since hump-
backs were not wanted.
After a time Johnny spoke again. “There’s
something rummy out over there.” He pointed into
the wind, the Amherst being close-hauled, beating her
way south towards the Solanders. “Looks like flot-
sam or drift of some kind. See it?”
“Where? I see nothing.”
“Somethin’ floatin’, like a tiny boat. My oath,
it’s a model boat with a sail.”
“What are you talking about? A model boat?”
While the mate failed to see the object, Johnny’s
pointing hand had attracted the attention of the
watchful skipper, who hailed, “Main hoops ahoy!
What do you see?”
“I see it,” the third mate said at that moment.
“Keep your eye on it, Johnny, and I’ll go down and
tell him. Coming down, sir,” he yelled as he started
down the swaying mast.
“It’s a little boat, like a model,” he told the
captain. “Johnny has the bearing if you want to-
pick it up.”
“A model boat? Sounds crazy to me,” Captain
Gilroy said. The mate, with him on the poop,
nodded agreement, and yelled to the masthead,
“Where away?”
Johnny’s hand and arm were extended at an
angle to the brig’s course.
“We’ll have to put her about —can’t haul her any
closer up. Sure you and Johnny didn’t imagine
it?” the captain added, looking at the third.
“No, sir. Johnny saw it first, then I did. A small
boat about three feet long, with a mast, stepped well
forward, and a sail. It’s running before the wind.
Wonder the sail isn’t blown to ribbons.”
The mate laughed sceptically. “We’ll find its
a mollyhawk, dead and drifting upside down, I’ll
bet,” he said.
The captain did not reply to his comment. “Get
Number Three boat ready, mister,” he told him.
“Number Three boat,” the mate’s voice rang
out.
Men came running, five of them, and got into the
boat. A boatsteerer followed more leisurely. In a
few seconds they were being lowered and then went
off in the direction marked by Johnny up aloft, the
boatsteerer standing to keep an eye on it. While the
brig went about, the boat drove into the seas, sending
spray flying.
Suddenly the boatsteerer slewed the boat, and
while she shipped a sea he grabbed the little boat,
then turned his whaleboat and flew back to the ship
with the wind. He handed up the flotsam while the
falls were being hooked on, and Captain Gilroy
examined it.
“No wonder the sail stands up to it,” he said.
“They’re made of tin or zinc. Hullo, here’s a message
scratched on it. What’s this?” He bent his brows
together trying to decipher the words and read out:
“ ‘Help for survivors of General Grant on Auckland
Islands 400 miles south of Dunedin.’ Must be a
hoax.”
“That’s the big Yankee that went missing last
year,” the mate volunteered. “Said to have gold in
her. On the Aucklands? What would she be doing
down there? I don’t believe it’s a genuine message.”
“You won’t believe it when Gabriel blows his
trumpet,” the skipper said cynically. “Maybe it’s a
hoax; some silly passenger on a liner playing tricks.
But not many liners come as far south as the Auck-
lands, so why would he think of that? We’ll go and
see. I’ll give you the course.”
| T was a dead slog to windward by the course he
* gave the mate, and ten days passed before the
Amherst raised the lofty hills of the Aucklands.
Slowly the peaks changed into a large mass of land,
thirty miles long, over which the westerly was driving
low clouds.
“The message didn’t say which island,” the mate
said —“Enderby or Adams or which of the little ones.”
“I’ll make for Port Ross in Enderby,” the skipper
said.
On a dull, cold afternoon he took the brig into
the big harbor where long before there had been a
settlement of south-sea whalers and some farms. Now
it was bleak and deserted, not a building there. But
on the beach beneath the high hills the astounded
ship’s company saw a group of five strange-looking
creatures. They stood still at first, and when no
move came from the men in the brig they began
running about, waving their arms and shouting. They
looked more like huge penguins than human beings;
their clothing waved and flapped as they ran, save
on one of them, who looked like a huge seal, fat
and short.
Captain Gilroy took the brig close in to examine
them. A more disreputable-looking band could not
be imagined. Their faces were black and framed in
long black whiskers and beards. “I’m not taking
them on board, even if they are human beings,” he
said. “They’re either lunatics or lepers left here by
some ship, and here they can stay. Starboard your
helm, we’re going out again.”
“What about that message?” the mate asked.
“I don’t care about any message. I’m going.”
As the ship paid off and gathered way wild yells
and screams came from the beach. The five ran to a
boat and got in, then began rowing furiously after
the brig. Suddenly one of the brig’s crew who was
in the rigging watching the strange sight shouted:
“I know one of them, sir, that big fellow in the stern.
He’s Jack Teer that used to sail with us.”
“Jack Teer?” the mate scoffed. “He went mining
in Victoria.”
“It’s him, sir! I’d know Jack anywhere.”
“Let’m come alongside. Back your mainyard,
mister,” the skipper said, leaning over the taffrail
to watch the approaching boat. It came alongside,
and from it stared grimy, anxious faces.
“You can’t leave us here, skipper,” the big man
said. “I’m Jack Teer. We’re all that’s left of the
General Grant. What’s the date?” he pleaded.
“We’ve been here over a year.”
“This is November 21, 1867,” the mate told him.
“The General Grant was lost on May 14, 1866.
All gone but us. Take us on board.”
“All right, but you look like a lot of loony pen-
guins. Get them on board,” he said. “Poor devils.
They must have had a hell of a time.”
They had, indeed.
Becalmed on a fine day some miles from the
Aucklands, on her way from Melbourne to London
via Dunedin, the General Grant drifted at night, head-
on, into an enormous cavern in the beetling cliffs
of Enderby Island. Nobody knew where she was,
till a peculiar lapping and echoing of the waters caused
her crew to lower a light over the side. They saw
their ship was in a cave, her masts grazing the roof.
The foremast brought down a shower of rocks which
smashed in her foredeck. Nothing could be done
till day came. Meanwhile the swells were lifting and
rocking the ship. The foremast came down, the main-
mast was driven through the bottom of the ship.
At last three boats got away, all crowded. Some
of the passengers who had large sums of gold with
them chose to remain with the captain on the ship.
None of them were saved. In the open sea, the
crowded longboat capsized, drowning all but three of
her occupants. They were picked up by the boat in
which were the first mate, Bartholomew Browne, and
Jack Teer, the ex-whaler. How to make a landing
was the problem, for the cliffs rose like iron ramparts-
to a height of four hundred feet, offering no chance
to the people in the boats; only one of the three
boats landed anywhere; the other, crowded with
people, vanished, while the longboat drifted ashore
later.
The surviving boat, with fifteen people in her,
eventually found a beach on a small rocky island
which was deep in snow. The calm had given way to a
storm, with cutting wind and sleet. In the boat were
salt pork and beef, tinned food and some odds and
ends of boxes and sacks.
As soon as they landed Jack Teer took charge.
At last some matches were found, slightly damp, but
Teer dried them in his hair and started a fire. Over
it he set sentries to see that it never went out, and for
months, till they got to Enderby and found flints, this
watch was maintained over the fire.
There were a few goats on the island. Teer in-
vented a trap to catch them. Also he caught some old
seals, whose skins were used for clothing. A com-
plete dress was made for Mrs. Jewell, the one woman
among them. When the weather moderated the party
managed to get to Enderby Island, where they found
old sealers’ huts and a cache where food had been
placed by the New Zealand Government. But the
food had been taken. Pigs were plentiful, though
their flesh tasted of the fern-roots and seaweed on
which they fed. Teer caught young ones with a line
and hook made from a nail. Some old axes were
found, too.
The urgent thing was to communicate somehow
with the nearest inhabited land or with ships. The
mate and four other men volunteered to try to
reach New Zealand. In the longboat, without com-
pass or chart, they sailed away into the grey distance.
The boat was never seen again.
Jack Teer never rested. When scurvy came upon
them and five died, he kept the others walking and
running about, using a whip to those who wanted to
lie down and die.
He got pigs’ bladders and inflated them, tying
messages on wood to them. These were set adrift
from both sides of the island. Seabirds immediately
pounced on them and pecked holes till all sank. Then
Teer thought of sending small wooden boats out as
messengers bearing SOS calls. The sails were made of
zinc from the lining of a small box, and anxiously the
messages were scratched on them. With their masts
set well forward, they would run before the westerly
that always blows in those latitudes.
It was a gambler’s chance and it won.
A S though the lost ship and her gold fascinated him,
** Teer returned again and again after the rescue,
guiding parties who tried to retrieve the gold from a
depth of sixteen fathoms in that huge sea-cave. Its
value was estimated variously from £20,000 to
£2,000,000. Though only two boxes appeared on the
manifest as containing gold, there was nine tons of
spelter shown. Spelter was not made in Australia
then, and many believed that this was all gold, or gold
and other metals together. Also there were 174 pack-
ages whose contents nobody knew. That, too, may
have been gold. This idea was borne out by the fact
that the steamer London was to have taken a huge
shipment of gold. The London was lost in the Bay of
Biscay on her way out to Melbourne. So the General
Grant was made the treasure ship, and she passed by
the Aucklands because she had to pick up more gold
at Dunedin.
Soon after the rescue, a boat from a whaleship
tried to enter the cave, but she vanished in the deeps.
In 1869 a party in the tug Southland tried without
success, in 1870 another attempt was made in the
schooner Daphne, again in 1877 the steamer Gazelle
took a party to the Aucklands, but still the cave re-
fused to give up its wealth, though divers found the
hull buried under fallen rocks. In 1916 Captain Cat-
ling, of the Enterprise, tried to form a company to
go after it.
Another company was formed in 1923, but the
gold and the General Grant are still lying at the Auck-
lands in a company of lost ships, including the Rifle-
man, lost in 1833 ; the Grafton, 1864; Invercauld,
1864; Derry Castle, 1887; Compadre, 1891; Marie
Alice, 1895; Angou, 1904; and Dundonald, 1907.
To-day few ships pass near the Aucklands, where the
great cliffs have at their bases still the wreckage of
ships lost over many years.
Jack Teer was found dead in his hotel bedroom
in Melbourne in 1888, a poor man. Yet when the
New Zealand Government offered him a large sum
of money for his work in rescuing the survivors, he
refused, unless the same amount was paid to every-
one else in the party. A gold ring and a gold watch
were all he would accept.


at this
great
hotel »»
near
Stay al Melbourne,
the »«“” theatres,
sh ° PS tto trams and trains.
venrent to s ingl es ’ 4 '
Boom - 011 doubles,'»/-*» 16/ "
2 15 Little CoWg fßb.
(Next Town Halt).
The Smallest, Lightest and Most Complete
Portable in the World
"T he Baby”
EMPIRE
No other typewriter at this price
can give you all these features.
• Completely standard keyboard
• Interlineator
• Paper support
• Right and Left Margins and release
• English STEEL typebars
• Card holder and paper bail
• FULL length cylinder
• FULL length ribbon
• Automatic ribbon reverse
Weighs B£lb. Made in England, and it’s
RUST resisting.
m
' r'
Price,
£1212/-
Cash or Easy Terms.
Roneo Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
21 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Jackson & O’Sullivan,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
John Withers & Son Pty., Ltd.,
210 Queen Street, Melbourne
L. Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
43 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Holdsworth & Co., Ltd.,
A.D.C. Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
J. Walsh & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
130 Macquarie Street, Hobart.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
out that she and Patrick are not married, and begins
to plan, as her next diversion, a tour of Swedish
acrobats.
Taken fast, with all the verbal trimmings, this is
very amusing. The characters—the feather-brained
but human and very charming Maxine ; her over-
whelmed husband; Julie, essentially innocent, who
mimes all the frivolity of her mother’s pose; the
Canon, who tries to pose simultaneously as a man of
the world and a strict churchman ; and his unbalanced
nephew Neddy —are all excellently drawn. Neddy
parodies the Canon just as Julie echoes her mother,
but on a plane of comedy rather than of farce.
If the story is farce the treatment isn’t, or at
any rate it is farce as the ballet dances it, with light-
ness, grace and a touch of poetry. It is real life, in
fancy dress and playing the clown. Under the frivolity
there is exasperation. The conflict between art and
Puritanism is real; the author is serious about it even
though he presents it in burlesque. The French farce
is shot through with genuine Irish comedy, the incon-
sequence touched, just touched, with frenzy. There
! s something grand about it.
In the book the author adds to its weight with a
preface in which —in a manner not quite Shavian —
he sets out his views on the drama in general and his
experiences with this particular play, his first. Drama,
he feels, should emancipate itself from the traditions
of the theatre, and a national theatre —such as the
Abbey—should stand out against the coercion of the
audience. The traditions of the theatre are the hard-
and-fast rules of the well-made play that it has sought
to clamp upon the drama —a well-defined plot divided
into theme,, development, climax and resolution.
Plot, Development and Theme are to me the three
bamboozling Graces of the drama. You look at the
three and you forget that life doesn’t have such things
as Central Characters.... you forget likewise that things
do not Develop but simply go on and on if Plot,
Development and Theme light up like a traffic beacon —
which is what so many critics want —there is not going
to be so much of that primal and essential quality left;
to wit, natural continuity.
In presentation, too, he deplores the hegemony of
any one style of acting. To apply the naturalistic
style to a play not written for it, or in it, is as big a
barbarism as ranting. After saying that a national
theatre should mould taste, not follow it, he accuses
the Abbey Theatre of shaping its policy and its plays
to suit its audiences, or of having so long given them
one sort of meat that it is now bound by its own
traditions.
With She Had to Do Something he had the
curious experience of seeing his play stolen from the
actors by the audience. It was rehearsed in one style,
lightly and quickly, as he wanted it to be, and played
in quite a different one. The players, sensitive to
the temper of the audience and aware that the play
was hanging fire, spontaneously and almost subcon-
sciously adapted it then and there to popular taste,
playing it broadly and boisterously. Like most
authors, O’Faolain is of the opinion that the play is
the most important consideration. It should be pre-
sented as the author intended and along its own
artistic lines. If the audience doesn’t like it, it should
be left to lump it.
Youth Stories.
Youth is the theme that links the 12 stories in
James Stern’s Something Wrong (Seeker and Warburg),
and that, after all, is a world in itself. It is a far cry
from the quarrelling Kaffir boys of “The Man Who
Knew” to the little boy of the namepiece who had
nightmares because of the deep-seated jealousy which
centred first on his mother and then on his nurse —
or from the blasting family realism of “The Holiday,”
in which no stone is left unthrown, to the delicately
suggested tragedy of “Our Father.”
The horrors of family life are perhaps the main-
stay of the collection and no one can better portray
the overtender mother, the managing wife and the
pernickety father. These types are offset by others
that are lovable or pathetic, such as the tough old
colonel struggling in vain to show his affection for his
12-year-old daughter.
On the whole James Stern uses a blatant tech-
nique on the people he doesn’t like and a subtle and
delicate one for those he does. Vices are shouted and
virtues go by inference. This mingling of fine and
coarse grain, apparently dependent on the author’s
prejudices, is throughout the book and accounts for
some of the inequality of appeal in the stories. An-
other thing which comes between the reader and the
tale is that most of the characters talk in what to the
lay ear appears to be exaggerated dialect. The mouth-
ings of the little boy in “Traveller’s Tears” would
seem to call for intervention from the American
Consul, and everyone else is afflicted with extreme
youth or illiteracy or some other impediment.
In a few of the stories —“The Broken Leg,” for
instance, in which a hunting accident sustained by
his mother has violent repercussions in a small boy’s
life, or “On the Sabbath,” in which a young man’s
embarrassed awkwardness before the girls and his
secret longing for their company lead to his death —
the psychology textbook is rather too obviously dis-
played. On the whole, the rather damping truth about
these stories is that the author achieves most when
he attempts least.
Irish in Chicago.
In No Star Is Lost (Constable) James T. Farrell
continues the saga of the O’Neills and O’Flahertys
which he began in A World I Never Made, welcomed
on this page a year ago. Like its predecessor, No
Star Is Lost is a day-to-day account of two Irish
families in Chicago. It brings the record up to 1915,
taking nearly 500 pages to cover two years.
Here are people living lives highly individual in
detail but governed in all essentials from without.
Except the strong-minded grandmother, Mrs.
O’Flaherty, pious and belligerent, all her thoughts con-
centrated on her family, they are all badly adjusted.
She is in contact with life only through her children
and grandchildren ; they are her buffers against it,
■and so she is safe in her enclosed world. All the
others have an exposed vulnerable side, an incapacity
for dealing with life that leaves them at its mercy.
The book is a picture of life and circumstance
eroding a mass of helpless or nearly helpless human
material. There is A 1 O’Flaherty, the good son who
travels in ladies’ shoes and dreams always of going
up in the world, reach-me-down dreams which have
in themselves no impetus toward fulfilment; his sister
Peg, still young and handsome, cashier in a hotel,
whose unstable disposition has landed her in an affair
with a married man. When he tires of her she has no
sheet anchor and her nerves drag her into a dreary and
humiliating circle of drunkenness and repentance. She,
too, has nothing but dreams with which to shore up
her life.
Lizzy, the old woman’s third child, is married to
Jim O’Neill, the wagoner, and is involved in her own
cycle of damnation, endless childbearing and poverty.
Unstable, pious and violent, she blunders through life
on square wheels. The O’Neill children also —Bill,
Danny, Dennis, Little Margaret, Catherine, Bob and
Arty—trace their haphazard, zigzag pattern through
the pages. Danny and Little Margaret live with their
grandmother, exposed to their aunt’s alternate bouts
of suffocating affection and drunken violence ; the
other children, at home, are always on the edge of
hunger and equally at the mercy of violence and affec-
tion. They fight blindly against it all, but they have
no hope of escape. They, too, have their constant
diet of dreams.
The book moves slowly—slowly drawing in on
its characters and with gentle persistence exposing
them down to the quick. Nothing escapes its fine
mesh. It is cruel in its insistence, yet gentle, too. It
is hard to recall a child portrait in literature mox;e
beautifully done than that of the two-year-old Arty.
All the characters are understandable, even when
they are not likeable. Most of the story is in dialogue,
much of it touched with Irish blarney and imagination.
Toward the end, where specific tragedy takes the place
of slow stifling tragedy, the pace of the story speeds
up. With two exceptions the families survive a sudden
onset of misfortune. It is just one more casual cuff
from life and then the stream goes relentlessly on
again.
Though complete in itself, No Star Is Lost is just
a slice from a very large loaf. There is no reason
why the story of the O’Neills and O’Flahertys
shouldn’t go on. It’s worth it.
Mysteries and Murders.
John Rhode’s Death on the Board and Invisible
Weapons were both excellent, and Carter Dickson’s
Judas Window was a really fine specimen of crime-
detection fiction. These two authors have now success-
fully collaborated in Drop to His Death (Heinemann ;
Dymock’s).
The yarn is as full of interest as it is lacking i* 1
all evidence of two-handed authorship. It relates the
strange happenings in a publisher’s office as the result
of which the publisher is found murdered in a lift
into which he entered at the top floor in full health.
No one else was in the lift at any stage of the journey,
nor did it stop at any intermediate floor ; and to com-
plete the problem the doors on each floor can neither
be opened nor permit the entrance of any person or
any missile during the descent. The mystery is well
worked out, like a vocal quartet, in four parts, each
part covering the descent of one or other of the persons
of the drama. There is the “Descent of a Publisher,”
the “Descent of a Detective,” the “Descent of a
Ghost” and, finally, the “Descent of a Murderer.” A
good story, with some fine character drawing and
many thrills.
Who Was the Killer?, by James Corbett (Herbert
Jenkins ; Dymock’s), is, in both senses of the phrase,
quite a different story. It is melodramatic and incred-
ible. The problem which Inspector Melford, of Scot-
land Yard, and Detective Spencer, his assistant, are
called upon to solve is the identity of the murderer
of Richard Bancroft, a mystery man with a queer
premonition of his own death. Bancroft has a sister
whose actions are as mysterious as is the murder
itself ; and he has about a score of enemies any one
of whom might have been justified in wiping him
out. The trouble about this book is that there are too
many facets to its problem—both in the multiplicity
of its suspects and in the wildness of its incidents
there is confusion.
Body Unknown, by Bruce Graeme (Hutchinson ;
Dymock’s), is a well-constructed story. The identity
of the murderer is revealed in the first chapter. A
strange and subtle turn is given by making the mur-
derer a doctor who is called in by Scotland Yard to
help the police, and who has to assist at the post-
mortem on the body of his victim.
The doctor is a notable figure in medical circles ;
but a man whose carefully-hidden excesses force him
to kill a beautiful widow. He has killed her deliber-
ately and with every precaution imaginative foresight
can suggest. But, like most criminals, he has made
one small mistake; an American detective, Brian
Young Heck —naturally nicknamed “By Heck” —who
has come to England on a search for a missing woman,
discovers that small error, and proves that the mur-
derer is Doctor Crispe, despite the incredulity and
opposition of Inspector Stevens, who knows Crispe
not only as an official assistant, but also as a personal
friend. The doctor’s growing fear of discovery, the
mental and physical anguish thereby created, and the
gradual piling of one clue upon another until the
crime is clearly proven are finely done.
The Mystery of Martha's Vineyard, by George
Dyer (Heinemann ; Dymock’s), is an American story
of the Cape Cod district, “Martha’s Vineyard” being
the name of an island off the Massachusetts coast. It
is concerned with secret service and the doings of
international spies and crooks.
Most of the action takes place on board a boat
of one kind or another. It might well have been
written by Victor Bridges—if one can envisage a
Victor Bridges with an American accent, style and
vocabulary. The adventures are told with gusto and
some humor; there are the utterly unscrupulous vil-
lains, the careless, likeable hero, with the usual capacity
for getting into —and out of —trouble, and the usual
girl.
“Crowsnest”: The Fellowship of Australian
Writers has been successful in securing direct repre-
sentation for imaginative literature on the Advisory
Board of the Australian Literary Fund. The Fellow-
ship tried for a complete reconstitution of the board.
The Government agreed to increasing the personnel,
from three to five, by two creative writers, one each
from Sydney and Melbourne ; also that the writers
should be allowed to nominate their own representa-
tives. The Fellowship, as inaugurator of the proposal
for a fund and as a widely-representative body, was
assumed to be competent to act in this for writers
generally. Nominated, Flora Eldershaw, Sydney;
Frank Wilmot (Furnley Maurice), Melbourne. Both
accepted. The fund, though a small item in the
national Budget, is a social experiment of considerable
interest and importance. The job doesn’t end with its
establishment and the appointment of the board. The
proceedings of the board —except in so far as they
treat confidentially of the affairs of individual writers
—should be made public so that they can be the object
of the helpful criticism of the community of letters
generally. A Bulletin leader, by the way, was very
helpful in securing representation for creative writers.


THE “UNBLUSHING EAST” IN
ALL ITS PAGAN SPLENDOUR!
Now you can enjoy the thrills of the REAL Arabian
Nights at less than half the original cost
Here is the full text of the
original 16-volume set, priced
at £16(16/- . ... ft 7
Complete in 4 volumes at dUf I
Of all available versions of “The Thousand Nights and
One Night,” most fail because they are abridged and
incomplete. Others which are complete are the work
of scholars at whose hands the stories have lost their
freshness and delicacy and have been overburdened with
lengthy scientific notes. But the French translation of
Dr. J. C. Mardrus, unexpurgated and unabridged, is the
closest and most vigorous reproduction in any modern
language of the simple, passionate, tender, Rabelaisian
tales that have come down to us from the nameless
storytellers of the enchanted East, This French version,
deftly translated into English by E. Powys Mathers, is
an unspoiled artistic achievement. “In ‘The Thousand
Nights and One Night’ the tale, after all, is the thing,
and the tale is better told by Mardrus.”—London
“Times.”
“INCOMPARABLY THE BEST”
The London “Review of Reviews” welcomes this edition
as “. . . .Incomparably the best we have ever had and
Mr. Mathers has given the English-speaking races a
revelation of new beauty in these marvellous tales,
hitherto handled only by the leaden fingers of experts,
but now just revealed as they are in the original.”
fiXffk
ISfc
:
THE STORY OF THE ARABIAN NIGHTS
For the origin of this enthralling work, we must go back to a
period between the eighth and tenth centuries—to medieval
Cairo in the days of the Mameluke Sultans and to Baghdad in
the Golden Age of the immortal Haroun Al-Rachid. Books
were unknown, and to these simple people, with their love
for marvellous stories, the professional storyteller was a most
important institution. These spinners of tales, or rawys, had
for their audiences no placid, conventional people, but rather
the sheiks, the camel drivers, the soldiers, the porters—hot-
blooded, unrestrained Orientals with their love of amazing
adventure and amorous intrigue, their belief in supernatural
beings and events, their utter frankness in matters that the
colder Western World hides behind a veil of convention. With
such audiences ready to reward the teller of a gripping story,
or to turn away from the teller of an insipid one, the rawys
drew upon all their stock of fervid imagination, of folk-lore,
of royal scandal, of romantic episodes in the incredibly free
and voluptuous life of their day, and devised tales of love
and passion, of sorcery and black magic, of horror and heroism,
that drove their hearers into frenzies of excitement. For
hundreds of years the best of these tales were handed down
from generation to generation, until about the fifteenth century
when they were first recorded in the original Arabic manuscript.
In this, the greatest classic of Easterri literature, the Oriental
mind and heart are revealed with astonishing candor; the
modes of life of all classes, from beggars to princes, are
intimately portrayed. You see the Sheiks of the desert in
tent and in saddle. You see the seductive beauties of the
harem as they set at naught the devices of their jealous lords.
You see the all powerful Sultans, one moment loading a
favorite with gold and the next sending him to the impaling
stake. You see the ingenious thieves, the impudent poets, the
scheming slave dealers. You follow rich caravans from Cairo
to Damascus. You attend the abandoned carousals of fabul-
ously wealthy rakes. You hear the bidding at turbulent girl-
auctions. You are admitted to amazing marriage ceremonies
—formal and informal. The religion and superstition of the
Moslems become an open book to you. You frequent the
bazaars and the public baths, the judicial hearings and fantastic
public executions. And the love-scenes you witness are
indescribable. Only among the Orientals could love blaze so
suddenly, so intensely, and drive men and women to such
desperate measures to win their desire!
FIRST PUBLISHED IN 16 VOLUMES
Mathers’s English translation of Dr. Mardrus’s version was first published
in 16 vdlumes priced at £l6/16/-. It has now been revised and repro-
duced, COMPLETE, in four handsome volumes of approximately eight
hundred pages each, printed on dpaque, ivory-surfaced paper of high
quality, with bindings of heavy blue buckram lettered in gold leaf. This
new edition covers exactly the same text as the original ... and ia
offered at less than half the former price . . .
£7/0/0
Never before has a complete and unabridged version been made avail-
able in such convenient and inexpensive form. This edition gives you
everything . . . the real character and atmosphere of the Arabic original.
And you can enjoy immediate possession on payment of a small deposit.
SEND THE FORM TO SECURE YOUR SET
Easy terms are allowed if required. A deposit of 15/- ensures prompt
despatch to any address . . . for convenience, use the form beneath.
THE BOOK of a THOUSAND
NIGHTS AND ONE NIGHT
MARDRUS AND MATHERS
4 volumes. 3250 pages. Complete and unabridged.
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD., SYDNEY
ORDER FORM
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
Please send me the complete Mardrus translation of “THE BOOK OF
A THOUSAND NIGHTS AND ONE NIGHT,” for which I enclose a deposit
of 15/- and agree to make 11 further monthly instalments of 12/6 —£7/12/6
in all. Or I will pay the full cash price of £7 within 30 days of delivery.
NAME OCCUPATION
PRIVATE ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS
Delivery free in capital cities and suburbs. Elsewhere freight is extra, but
charged at minimum rates
“Bulletin” 23/8/’39.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
jytfbitwM
THE NOBLE DORIC ARCH AT EUSTON STATION.
Railway stations, in popular conception,
make little appeal to the aesthetic. Their duty
is to demonstrate utilitarianism, which
as a general rule clashes with the aesthetic.
Attempts have been made to blend the
two, but with indifferent, if any, success.
London’s railway stations are legion in
number and poles apart in size and form.
While in the Euston Road, Sir Gilbert
Scott gave to the front of St. Pancras
Station, so familiar to all Australian and
New Zealand travellers, a touch of
“Gothic magnificence, somewhat out of
place,” possibly the most renowned
station in the metropolis is Euston, from
whence the traveller reaches the Mid-
lands and North-West of England, Scot-
land, Wales and Ireland. Lying off
Euston Square, and hidden from the main
thoroughfare by the Euston Hotel, is the
world-famous station. There is probably
no one word in our language which con-
veys to the true Londoner a clearer
meaning than “Euston.” Call any taxi-
driver within a ten- or twenty-mile radius
of Charing Cross, utter the single word
“Euston” clearly and decisively, and with-
out comment he will drive direct to that
spacious courtyard, across the surface of
which falls the shadow from what is
probably the most magnificent Doric
Archway in the world. The dark-grey
granite stands out in severe simplicity
and beauty, a memento of solidity and
good taste. The arch has been criticised
as “gigantic and very absurd.” Still,
few Londoners would see such “a sight”
of their City removed. It was built in
1840, and cost £35,000. Euston Station
is now the headquarters of the London,
Midland and Scottish Railways. No
station in the world possesses so purely
classical a feature.


BUSINESS AS USUAL.
“A report that the Axis Powers might present a peace plan had a bad Press.”
“You get back to your dovecote, you white nark!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
~d. per copy. Ur.ited Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
HOW THE MONEY GOES.
Mr. Mair, the stopgap N.S.W. Premier, has inherited
a State debt of £410,000,000 or so, of which, “as at”
June 30, 1938, £354,100,000 was due to the Common-
wealth, the rest having been borrowed, under State
Government guarantee, by various “semi-Government
authorities. ’ Mr. Mair has also taken over from his
predecessor a 1938-39 deficit reckoned by that gentle-
man at £2,750,000, by one of his late Ministers
at £3,750,000, and by the leader of the Opposition at
£4,350,000; and if Mr. Mair ever reads the Auditor-
General’s reports he will find on page 7 of the one
for 1937-38 that there was “an accumulated deficiency
at June 30, 1938,” of £30,643,900. But is Mr. Mair
downhearted? No, no, no, no, no ; the moneylender
or the tax-gatherer or the receiver or somebody will
be there.
Mr. Mair blithely announced last week that his
Cabinet had been surveying the prospect of “additional
taxation over a very wide field” and that, as a result,
“the public will be asked to dip rather deeply into
their pockets.” On the same day, glancing meditatively
at the public’s pockets, Mr. Menzies mentioned that
his Government “is spending £32,000,000 on national
defence” in 1939-40, “as against £13,500,000 in 1938-
39,” and gave this as a reason for refusing to find
more than £7,000,000 for the wheatgrowers—
£3,7so,ooo of flour tax, plus £2,000,000 of supplemen-
tary assistance, plus almost £1,500,000 for farmers’-
debts adjustment.” On the same day also the N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers carried a motion for the abolition
of State Parliaments.
It is supposed in Macquarie-street, Sydney, and
in U.A.P. newspaper offices that “the public will be
asked to dip rather deeply into their pockets” for
another £4,000,000, if Mr. Mair can get it. That will
be the difficulty, for everything taxable, except
boomerangs and armorial bearings, is taxed already.
The State income-tax law is a maze of legal jargon
and arithmetical posers, baffling to all but trained
puzzle-solvers, but it seems that State income tax starts
at about in the £ and rises to 4s. 3d. in the £. Then
there is “special” income tax and wages tax, beginning
at 3d. in the £ and rising to lOd. Then Common-
wealth income tax, beginning at sd. plus a wilderness
of decimals, and soaring to 7s. 9.15 d.
Canberra is expected to restore the “special”
impost on property income clapped on during the
depression and abolished when it was thought there
would never be anything of the kind again. In any
case, Commonwealth requirements will take so much
out of the pockets on which Mr. Mair has fixed his
glittering eye that dipping will be of little service to
him ; he will have to dig.
The Commonwealth is also expected to increase
sales tax, excise on beer, spirits and tobacco, and
customs duties on a number of imported articles, be-
ginning with drinks. Those who like something with
a stick in it are always the first to be smitten, though
the beverages of their preference are either made in
Australia or are imported from good-customer coun-
tries. This is not the case with that favored article
tea, vast quantities of which are imported from bad-
customer countries. If the balance of trade continues
unfavorable tea imports may be difficult to finance.
On a kite thrown up from Macquarie-street the
words “Death duties” are written. Unfortunately for
Mr. Mair, they are already very stiff, ranging in the
State from 2 p.c. on small estates to 25 p.c. on large
ones, and in the Commonwealth, which taxes the
balance, from 1 p.c. to 15 p.c. Stamp duties, like post-
age, are also heavy—2d. on a cheque form, the same
on a receipt for £2, 3d. on “every £25 and every frac-
tional part of £25” mentioned in a promissory note,
4d. on “every £lOO and every fractional part of £100”
stated in a fire or hail insurance policy (even in the
case of renewals), and so on in the same extortionate
or punitive spirit.
And the incidence of local-government rates
cannot —or, rather, should not —be ignored. They have
gone up sharply, especially in districts blessed with
Spooner works. In Canterbury, for example, the rise
has been from 6d. in the £ of unimproved capital value
to Bd.; in Bankstown, from 7d. to 10.6 d. It was alleged
that Spooner works would “promote development”
Mr. Mair, defending Mr. Stevens, gave examples
of the kind of “development” that they have promoted
—dressing sheds, showground buildings, bowling
greens, clubhouses, a casino and dance floor, an art
pavilion, a dog-and-poultry pavilion and a crowd of
tourist roads, one of which cost £lOO,OOO, though
“not five cars pass across it in a day.”
The N.S.W. Parliament is nominally in control
of the public purse, and it is thus responsible for this
fantastic expenditure; responsible also for the dan-
gerous and disgraceful condition into which the
finances have been allowed to drift Being the sort of
Parliament it is, it is probably useless to remind it of
its duty to the people ; but before it sanctions an-
other tax or an addition to any existing impost it
should go through the Auditor-General’s reports and
the Estimates item by item and cut out all unwarranted
expenditure, recurring or projected. And because it
had the effrontery to raise its own salaries and those
of Ministers and officers of both Houses, even before
it began to debate the Stevens Budget—the Budget
that promised the people a surplus of £7785, instead
of which there was a deficit of at least a pound per
head of population, and probably a great deal more
—it should begin with those salaries which, adding
impudence to injury, it increased by £205 p.a. (to
£875 p.a.) in a merry October quarter-hour from the
first day of July. If it fails to make reduction of
salaries to the 1937-38 rates its first job—though, going
on the Auditor-General’s report that the alleged sur-
plus for that twelvemonth was an actual deficiency of
£418,500, even the 1937-38 rates were excessive—the
people will know they have nothing to expect of it but
political brigandage.
When (or if) the salary grab is attended to, the
cost of transporting politicians, officials and ladies
not in the country’s service should be cut by at least
half. What it amounts to no man can say until the
Auditor-General or a responsible member of his staff
is deputed to collect and present all pertinent infor-
mation as to annual expenditure on motor vehicles,
replacements, repairs, fuel and oil in all the depart-
ments ; but, judging by the number of deadheads who
ride in Government trains, trams and buses, and in
Government cars and hire-cars, it must be enormous.
There are 150 members of the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, and they are all privileged to travel free over
the Government railways of the Commonwealth, the
six States and Maoriland, which are all kept going
with barrels of tax-money ; premising that “insufficient
provision has been made for depreciation” and that
“operating expenses have been temporarily relieved by
loan expenditure on reconditioning,” die Auditor-
General calculated “accumulated losses” on the N.S.W.
railways for 14 years to June 30, 1938, at £23,164,100.
The 150 gentlemen and swarms of officials as well
are also privileged to ride on the nod in N.S.W. Gov-
ernment trams and buses —the buses have been added
since 1932, and a new fleet of them is placed on the
roads every month or so. There is a Government
motor garage which attends to “repair services to
Government motor vehicles” and sells tyres to “officers
of the public service who are authorised to use their
own cars on official business,” and which “charges
sufficient only to recoup cost” ; and there are “Minis-
terial motor services” which, for the year to June 30,
were estimated to run away with £15,800. And not
only Ministers are “served.” In Sydney, legislators
of no importance and minor functionaries can be seen
doing the grand in Government and “semi-Govern-
ment” cars.
An absolute veto on unnecessary “investigations,”
overseas jaunts and the like should also precede the
imposition of any more taxation. The Auditor-
General gives an incomplete list of 1937-38 expendi-
ture under these heads —incomplete because the globe-
trotting of officers employed in departments like Rail-
ways and Road Transport, which are run by Commis-
sioners, are supposed to be no concern of the tax-
payers, albeit the cost is always charged up to them —
and supplementary items figure in the Estimates:
Royal Commissions—
Betting (three years) £19,469
Industrial Undertakings 4,095
Investigations—
Electricity Supplies (two years) .. .. 18,281
Burrinjuck Dam 5,980
Reservoirs and Structures .. .. .. .. 632
Fruit Industry (with a lot more to come) .. 1,449
Trips Abroad —
Minister of Transport 797
Under-Secretary, Treasury .. .. .. .. 675
New Agent-General .. .. .. .. .. 560
Director of Education (with a lot more to come) 217
His Chief Clerk .. .. . , .. .. 189
S. W. Jones, Works Department .. .. .. 942
Senior Geological Surveyor .. .. .. .. 211
Engineer Water Supply .. .. .. .. 242
Chief Vet ■ .. .. 256
Return trip, old Agent-General 560
The hand of a Joseph Hume or a George Turner
would also fall heavily on items like the following:
Pension, A. B. Piddington, K.C £3OO
Film, “A Nation Is Built” 4168
Booklet, “New South Wales —Land of Sunshine and
Opportunity” ..2180
Special report for Cabinet (on holidays!) .. .. 1000
Empire Parliamentary Association sub 300
Grant to clerk attending E.P.A. Conference .. .. 75
Honorariums—
Prof. Mills, Consultant in Economics .. .. 250
Prof. Roberts, Economic Investigations .. .. 150
Fees, Prof. Copland 133
Liquidation of guaranteed overdraft, Muswellbrook
swimming baths 5061
In Salaries, Maintenance and Working Expenses
and Other Services, the Governor’s establishment was
estimated to cost £10,400 last year. The Other Services
included “purchase of car for the official use of his
Excellency, £925.” If the aspiration of the Farmers
and Settlers is realised, Australia will have one Par-
liament, one Government and one Government House ;
one Works department, one Health department, one
Taxation department, one Navigation department, one
Treasurer’s department, one Railway department and
one Attorney-General’s department, instead of seven
of each ; one Education department, one Lands depart-
ment, one Mines department and one department of
Agriculture, instead of six of each ; and six Premiers’
departments will disappear with six Premiers. Aus-
tralia needs no more than one Parliament, one
Administration and one Governor, with provincial
councils to look after local self-government; and the
time has come when it can stand no more.
Too Much for J. Bull.
Up in Tokio J. Bull’s official spokesman has his work
cut out to uphold J.B.’s position and prestige in China.
He is attending to more than that. He is doing a job
that should be to the advantage of every other country
having interests in China. The U.S.A., France, Hol-
land and others all stand to gain if J.B. holds the posi-
tion, and to lose if he fails.
Except for the gesture of giving Nippon six
months’ notice that a trade-and-commerce treaty may
be ditched, Uncle Sam is pleased to leave all the hard
work on the spot, and the odium certain to accrue
from one side or the other however it goes, to the
willing animal. So, without any exception, are the
other nations concerned.
Then there is the refugee business. J. Bull has
done more and is doing more in this regard than any
other country. Uncle Sam, despite his having the
largest Jewish population ever massed together in one
country—or it may be because of that —is sticking to
his quota. Since the refugee troubles started J.B. has
knowingly welcomed some 40,000. That is one esti-
mate. Others put it considerably higher; counting in
those not officially welcomed, it certainly is a great
deal higher. The influx is already causing serious
rumblings. An unbiased reporter at a meeting of
Mosley Fascists in London —attended by some 30,000
people—recorded that it was the anti-Jewish declama-
tion in the speeches that evoked most applause.
Last year a responsible Minister in the House of
Commons—Sir Samuel Hoare, the Home Secretary—
declared: “It is a fact —and the House had better
face these facts frankly—that below the surface, and
I know this from my own experience, there is the mak-
ings of a definite anti-Jewish movement.” The official
figure usually puts the number of Jews in Britain at
350,000; the writer of one of the increasingly numer-
ous anti-Jewish books now appearing in England gives
2,000,000 as a Jewish estimate, “apart from an unes-
timated number of half-Jews.” Even so, J. Bull takes
the lead in trying to find homes for the refugees. Yet
he is assailed for not doing enough. Australia for
taking 15,000 in three years—that is, officially—is also
assailed; but J.B. is the chief target.
He is particularly a target over his attempts to
make something of the Palestine mandate. Uncle
Sam will not, and never would, touch this job with a
barge-pole ; but the most violent criticism of J.B.’s
handling of it emanates from Uncle Sam’s country.
Nor are Jews to whom J.B. has given refuge helpful.
Poland has 1,000,000 Jews it wants to export, and the
illegal immigrants lately being dumped on Palestine,
without cash or passport, have been mainly Polish—
not German, as is commonly believed. J.B. is helping
Poland with a fine share of the £ 100,000,000-odd dis-
tributed to appease and assist his new and clamorous
allies, but that makes no difference to this traffic,
which Mr. Malcolm MacDonald told the House of
Commons is unquestionably organised.
Mr. MacDonald said that Jews and Jewish organi-
sations in England were in part responsible—which
statement, with British Tommies being killed in the
attempts to keep peace in the thankless mandate job.
is not likely to make refugees in England any more
popular. Others apart from those mentioned by Mr.
MacDonald have been helping to make Palestine as
tough a job for J.B. as possible. Others still—includ-
ing many of his own race —hold that such thankless
jobs are properly J.B.’s, and that the more he can be
abused over them the better.
All the foregoing arises from the notion of J.
Bull as the world’s policeman ; and from this further
arises the notion that J.B. should barge into every
war that madness or rapacity gets going. By the same
set of cranks he was urged to fight Italy over Abys-
sinia ; he was urged to barge into Spain and turn the
civil war there into a world war; he was urged to
fight Hitler and co. over Czechoslovakia—this being
only one of many inducements for him to enter the
lists against the same team. And now there is Danzig.
But that is not nearly enough for those who ask
everything of J. Bull, while making no such demands
of, say, Uncle Sam. Nor is it enough for them that
J.B. is doing the hard work for a lot of nations—
including Uncle Sam’s —up in Tokio. No —they want
him to fight Japan and Germany and Italy. They
want him to fight all these all at once. It is past time
this shrieking chorus of imbeciles came to their senses,
if only sufficiently to realise that what they ask of
J. Bull is not merely idiotic, but utterly impossible.
With Uncle Sam determined to be neutral —to
the extent of only selling to J.B. what J.B. could go
and fetch in his own ships, paying cash on the nail —
J.B. could not hope to win such a fantastic war.
Strong as he is—and he is now enormously strong for
his own defence —he could hardly make a draw of
such a war. The odds are that he would lose it.
It is forgotten, apparently, that with Japan and
America and Italy on his side he did not win the last
war by such a wonderful margin. He went within
an ace of losing it in 1917, when there were mutinies
in the French army, and wfren he himself was brought
perilously close to an enforced peace by the submarine
campaign.
So far, on J.B.’s behalf, one man —backed by the
good sense of the general run of people—has held off
a repetition of all that In the process J.B.’s dignity
would seem to have suffered somewhat. What of it?
It was a false dignity—a vanity, rather, puffed up by
the ludicrous notion of J.B. as the world’s meddling
busybody and John Hop. If, through recent happen-
ings, that silly notion has been pricked, that will be
no bad thing for J.B. He has long been asked to do,
in many fields, what he could never hope to do. He
still has his own enormous estates to look after. Look-
ing after them is a man-size job in itself.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
IS It “Darkening"?
Seeking a brief respite from his many worries, Mr.
Menzies found it in Brisbane at Show-time. There,
for a few placid days, he moved among hearty
Queenslanders who refused to be depressed with cares
or war scares, speaking of the immediate past and
present with satisfaction, and of the future without
fear. They didn’t once pester the visitor with a com-
plaint or try to “touch” him for a grant.
Grateful for this good company, and still under
its impulse, the P.M. came to Sydney, and succeeded
in being cheerful even at a U.A.P. rally in the lost
electorate of Hurstville. “Let us be optimistic and talk
about peace and happiness,” he said. “Let us give up
talking about the inevitability of war. If everybody
talks like that we will certainly have war, and the world
will be a sorry place.” No doubt he hoped that these
cheering sentences would have some effect on the
gloomy minds of editors, ink-shedding professors and
radio commentators. He must have abandoned the
hope when a copy of “S. M. Herald” was brought to
him and he turned from the rather skimpy report of his
speech to the leading article. It began in this strain:
THE DARKENING SCENE IN EUROPE.
With gathering speed, events in Europe are moving
to a new crisis.
Perhaps the disregarded optimist called for the two
previous issues of the Fairfax paper. If so, his gaze
shifted from the Darkening Scene in Europe to an-
other issue of stormy weather in the Fast East. Japan
had delivered a new Threat to Hong Kong by landing
a small force “on the borders of the Kowloon terri-
tory,” giving the British 48 hours’ notice. The detach-
ment did not encroach on British territory, but the
“Herald” saw in its appearance “a demonstration of
co-operation with the culminating German troop con-
centrations in Central Europe.”
Still worse happened. An elderly American
woman, described as a missionary “who augments her
slender income by selling fruit and vegetables” at
Tientsin, got into an argument with a Japanese sentry,
who slapped her face. The Japanese authorities
apologised, pleading that the offender was an ignorant
rustic. The Americans, no doubt, thought him
an ill-conditioned ruffian. But they were much less
excited by the outrage than the “Herald,” which called
upon them to show “resentment” and “retaliation” and
warned “the Japanese fighting services” that they
“might find themselves with some less pleasant occu-
pation than slapping defenceless women’s faces if a
Russian air fleet threatened the Japanese naval dock-
yards.”
Meanwhile a certain Major-General Muto, who
took part in the Tokio talks, contrived to speak soberly
even of the blockade of Tientsin ; he said “it was not
intended to exert pressure on Britain,” being essentially
“a military action arising out of the need for preserv-
ing order in China.” And on behalf of the Navy it was
denied that a blockade of Hong Kong was projected ;
“Japan does not intend fresh international complica-
tions with a friendly Power.”
In Eastern Europe there have been more obscure
frontier shootings and movements of troops, and the
hearts of the Dismal Jeremiahs began bleeding for
Hungary because a Hungarian count, alleged to be
agitated, travelled to Salzburg, and then to Rome. But
there have also been discussions between German and
Polish officials at Danzig and the High Commissioner,
a Swiss ; and to Minister Gullett it is “beyond doubt
that Italy does not desire war and that Signor Musso-
lini, through Count Ciano, has been bringing strong
restraining influence to bear on Herr Hitler.” More-
over, the American Congressman Hamilton Fish,
after personal interviews with British, French and
German Foreign Ministers, came out with a proposal
for “a thirty days’ political truce, during which the
Foreign Ministers would try to find a solution.” A
member of a historical American family who may
become a Republican President, Mr. Fish’s exertions
cannot well be ignored by any of the Governments so
unhappily divided, except perhaps by the mysterious
mob at Moscow.
A report that Germany, because of “the existing
situation,” had “taken military possession of Slovakia”
made the week-end unpleasant for nervous people. It
was attributed to “the radio station at Bratislava.”
The radio station at Bratislava denied that it had made
any such announcement; but the denial was dismissed
in a few lines, and in the meantime the alarmist
brotherhood had done its worst. In the race with
truth, liars and alarmists always give themselves a
long start.
Wheat-subsidy Schemes.
Mr. Menzies proposed a guaranteed price of 3s. 4d.
f.0.r., the Commonwealth bearing half the cost (over
and above what the flour tax brings in) and the States
the other half. First payment in May, 1940, second
and final in December.
At the Premiers’ Conference the Prime Minister
offered to contribute more towards the cost, but Pre-
mier Dunstan spoke strongly against the whole thing;
and the conference was adjourned till August 28.
Mr. Dunstan, with the organised Victorian wheat-
farmers behind him, wants the Commonwealth to
assume the whole financial responsibility. In an
opinion read by the Premier in the State Assembly
Fullager, K.C., questions the constitutionality of the
Menzies plan.
There would be no constitutional impediment if
the Commonwealth Government made itself respon-
sible for the subsidy and the States for transport—
and subsidised wheat should be carried to ports at a
flat rate of 4d. a bushel. In any case, discussion at
the next conference should not be confined to one par-
ticular plan. The P.M. would be the last to claim
perfection for his plan.
Drastic A.M.F. Changes.
The standing-army proposal of Lieut.-General Squires,
which commended itself to Minister Street, was re-
jected by the Cabinet, presumably at the instance of
the Prime Minister. But the Anglo-Indian general,
again seconded by the admiring Street, has had his
way in respect of the reduction of military retiring
ages as a preliminary to changes in senior commands,
and last week an astonishing number of retirements
and promotions was announced.
Some of the changes were anticipated. The
scrapping of the national training system or what was
left of it —a calamitous blunder for which Australia
has had to pay dearly in many ways, not the least in
condemning to donkey work thousands of lads who
could have been employed usefully in the army —left
the A.M.F. with a congested staff. In the process of
years round pegs were fixed in square holes and
legitimately ambitious young men found the path to
promotion blocked. In the degree to which the altera-
tions will remove these obstacles to an efficiently-
officered army, they are justified, and certainly Aus-
tralia has been well served by the men who have been
raised to higher posts.
But things that were not bargained for have hap-
pened. It was never imagined, in Parliament at any
rate, that distinguished A.I.F. commanders like Major-
Generals Jess and Phillips would be “transferred to the
unattached list” —Jess at 55 and Phillips at 57,
although the new retiring age for major-generals is
60. Neither was it imagined that high A.M.F. com-
mands were to be reserved for professional soldiers,
which seems to be the intention. Monash was a
citizen soldier, and there is a growing opinion, even
in Britain, that in the armies that served the King in
1914-18 there was no abler general.
Diggers are discussing these things in no sub-
missive spirit. They are also asking whether Aus-
tralia will really benefit from an arbitrary arrange-
ment of retiring ages which would have ruled out
Hindenburg and Foch. In fact, the veterans of Villers-
Bret. and Mont St. Quentin question the whole busi-
ness of importing British officers to overhaul the Aus-
tralian forces, and come out with reports and pro-
posals which they would never be commissioned to do
in respect of the corresponding British forces. It is a
rather humiliating reversion to the colonial spirit and
the exploded belief in the infallibility of the War Office.
A Queensland Cadet Corps.
“El V.” goes back to school:
Some of the recent A.M.F. appointments evidence the
value of good cadet corps. Brisbane Grammar School has
had one since 1878, when it was formed, 50 strong, by R. H.
Roe, a fine old Oxford blue and pupil of Jowett.
About the time of the Boer War membership was
over 100—about half the school. Many lads studying for
scholarships and tied in other ways could not give time
to the work. Entry into the corps was entirely voluntary
and dependent on an annual subscription of 10s. After
a few years command was taken over by Captain Gross,
the German and gymnastic master, who had served his
military term in hi% native Zurich.
Drill was not onerous, though there was always an
old sergeant-major from the British Army as drill sergeant.
War exercises were stern. On one occasion when the com-
mander came upon one of his men with a luckless foe up
a tree, he shouted: “Shoodt der blighter—ve don’t take
brisoners! ”
But rifle-shooting was the strong suit of the corps. An
Intercolonial Schools Competition, open throughout Australia
and Maoriland, was instituted in 1887; B.G.S. won it four
times in succession, carrying off the Sargood Shield and
closing the competition for good. In 1903 the B.G.S. team
of eight won the Empire Cup against 42 British, 12 Aus-
tralian and 14 S’African public schools. In the next three
years it was twice first and once second among the Aus-
tralian schools, and in 1907 it won against the Empire
again. Its name stands on the Prince of Wales Cup, gained
that year against Empire competition, and it did well right
to 1914.
Compulsory training had then arrived. In 1914 B.G.S.
owned the champion cadet company of the Commonwealth —
shooting, inspection, physical drill and march past were all
considered.
When war broke out there were about 1500 old boys of
military age. Of these 1009 served. Youngsters in their
twenties volunteered virtually to a man; one fifth form of
24 sent 22 men into the A.I.F. or special war service. Decora-
tions and mentions in dispatches awarded were in the pro-
portion of one to every five men enlisted. The school pro-
vided 307 officers, over 50 of field rank, including five generals
of brigade—Cannan, Coxen, Foott, Sellheim and Wilson—
besides a number of officers of the type of Donald Cameron,
who calmly took 7000 surrendering Turks under the wing of
his 200 Light Horsemen in Palestine. At the Landing eight
B.G.S. youngsters were killed.
Naturally, such an institution sent a lot of men into the
permanent forces, and particularly into commissions in the
R.A.A. The names of four of them of the vintage of 1900-04
appear in the recent list of senior army appointments. Major-
General Lavarack remains Chief of the General Staff. To
the Southern Command goes his old schoolfellow Brigadier-
General Miles. Another B.G.S. contemporary, the Westralian-
born Colonel Jackson, is placed in command of the Ist
Division. Colonel Eric Plant, member of one of the winning
Empire Cup rifle teams, takes command of Duntroon. Plant
was one of three soldier sons of a soldier father. An elder
brother, also an Empire Cup man, was killed at Pozieres.
There was probably nothing in the Brisbane boys superior
to the quality of other young Australians; but early tradition
and military training counted.
Where Individualism Tells.
“Pawang” : The other night in Melbourne I attended
a lecture on the Flying Doctor Service by its local
secretary, J. W. Collings, who has completed a 2500-
mile tour of inspection of that remarkable organisa-
tion. As a lecturer Mr. Collings has no adornments,
and there must be millions of better photographers.
But his simple narrative, illustrated by lantern slides
which were largely incomprehensible, went to the
hearts of an audience that included vice-regal and
other distinguished personages.
It went to their hearts simply because it was an
account of individual endeavor, and there isn’t a soul
in the world who can resist the appeal of successful
individual endeavor, even when it takes the grotesque
form of Popeye the Sailor.
The pictures, for all their incoherence, revealed
the drabbest-looking area of Mother Earth it is pos-
sible to imagine, with the drabbest-looking aboriginal
population. The evidences of the white man’s struggle
to master Nature in its most overwhelming aspect were
tin pubs with hundreds of miles between them, tin
shanties and tin hospitals. They covered an area ex-
ceeding Europe.
But this area is crisscrossed with air routes,
covered daily by the flying doctors transporting
patients, regardless of color, from howling wildernesses
into centres of comparative civilisation. And the flying
doctors are kept in touch with isolated settlers' and
their families by means of the most ingenious method
of communication ever devised to perform miracles
at a cost low enough to make them available to the
users —the pedal wireless.
All this had its origin in the brain and resolution
of John Flynn, a missionary, and it is supported mainly
by voluntary contributions, most of which come from
Melbourne. When Mr. Collings spoke of unexpected
cheques his voice shook with feeling.
No profession could have founded the Flying-
Doctor service. A profession, as a profession, could
never even have thought of it, because a professional
body is a committee, and no committee ever produced
a new idea. New ideas always come from individuals
like John Flynn. John Flynn didn’t ask a committee
to think up ways of bringing sick settlers or their
pregnant wives into civilisation from the Never Never
or of sending medical advice through the ether to
lonely cattle stations. He thought them up himself.
The bright lads of the medical school at Mel-
bourne University passed a motion in favor of main-
taining without relaxation the law which makes it
obligatory on alien doctors to take the five-year
course, even if the alien is a Freud or some world-
famous surgeon. I got a headache when I read that.
I lost it when I listened to Mr. Collings’s lantern lec-
ture, despite his photography.
The Trans-Pacific Airmail.
The Aotearoa, first of the sky-ships to serve the
Sydney-Auckland airmail route, is well on her way to
Auckland from London, which she left on August 16.
She is about four tons heavier than the class at present
in use on the London-Australia route. Other vessels
are nearly ready. It is proposed —if possible —to have
the service running before the year is out, but there
seems to be no certainty about anything connected
with the business. There is no accommodation at the
Australian end fully suitable for a 21-ton flying-boat,
and plans seem to be sketchy. It is time there was
some finality, especially about the place of the trans-
Tasman mail in the trans-Pacific mail scheme.
It is exactly four years since the Pacific service
was first seriously discussed consequent upon the offer
of Pan-American Airways to the Maoriland Govern-
ment to link the Dominion with California, condition-
ally upon the granting of landing rights at Auckland.
The Americans expected to establish a maximum four-
day voyage and to carry mail and passengers without
Maoriland subsidy. An agreement was signed in
November, 1935, the co. undertaking to establish a
service in December, 1936, via Honolulu and Pago
Pago to Auckland. It failed to keep the agreement,
and an extension-of-time clause deferred the service
till December, 1937.
The Government and the company were still
wrangling about details in March, 1937. However, a
service flight was made in December, 1937. An attempt
at a second flight, under Captain Musick, ended when
the Clipper blew up at Pago Pago.
It was then decided to reorganise the whole
Pacific scheme in the light of weather knowledge
gained and the lengthening range of commercial air-
craft. Kingman Reef and Pago Pago have been cut
out, and Canton Island has become the main inter-
mediate base between Honolulu and Auckland. This
divides the voyage from Hawaii into two hops of
2700 miles and 2500 miles, but the Americans have
elected to make a deviation to within 850 miles of the
Queensland coast at Noumea. They are putting in
a big aerodrome there, though there is no justifica-
tion for it that can be observed, since the co. swears
that it has no intention of flying to Australia.
An Australian company, backed with United
States money, might possibly be smitten with the
inspiration to short-circuit the Auckland-Australian-
British trans-Pacific service for one which would, in
effect, be an all-Yankee show. It is certain that accom-
modation for Boeing 42-passenger machines is not
being provided at Noumea merely because the pro-
moters of the base think New Caledonia a picturesque
resting place for pilots. There seems to be room for
a lot more bargaining yet before the trans-Pacific
agreement is allowed full force.
Politicians are all too apt to regard the estab-
lishment of the U.S.A. section of the route as a gener-
ous gesture by a kindly sister-nation. It would be a
good idea to ask the sister-nation whether her Gov-
ernment will allow Australian and British commercial
’planes landing rights at Honolulu and the Golden
Gate.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: I record a happy coinci-
dence in the lives of Sydney’s two Sab-
bath newspapers, “Terewth” and the
“Sunday Sun.” The “S.S.” announced
one week that on the following Sunday
it would begin to elevate its readers with
a serial of The Man Who Killed Hitler,
the merry little Yankee tome that reeks
of blood like an abattoir. Sunday
dawned, and the first rays of the sun
showed the “S.S.” posters Reclaiming
THE MAN WHO KILLED HITLER.
And just a little further down the street
glittered the “Terewth” placards: THE
MAN WHO KILLED HITLER. Some-
one on “Terewth” with a positive genius
for coincidence had written a full-page
review of the book with copious quota-
tions, conveying the whole story very
nearly as adequately as did the actual
reprinting of it in the columns of its
great contemporary. And I suppose the
“Sunday Sun” had had to pay good
money for its serial rights.
* * # *
“Oxmead”: .Sydney “Sun,” in an
editorial combating the fallacy that men’s
mental vigor invariably lessens with the
weight of years, informs us that “Cicero,
it is related, learned Greek at 70.” I
wonder where it is related, and by whom,
or whether the “Sun” hasn’t mixed up
Cicero with Cato, who, I seem to remem-
ber, was credited with the above feat by
his contemporaries, not at 70, but at 80.
Cicero, it would seem likely, learned his
Greek at school. In any case, he couldn’t
have learned it at 70, for he was but 63
when the soldiers of Mark Antony mur-
dered him.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: August dates contain
a lot of interesting history. Julius Caesar
landed in Britain on August 27, 55 b.c.
On August 3, 1492, Columbus sailed
from Palos in Spain to reach India from
the west, and discovered America, for
the sole reason that he couldn’t possibly
miss it on that course. The Greenwich
Observatory was founded on August 10,
1675. Cook left England in the Endea-
vour on August 25, 1768. Napoleon
Bonaparte was born on August 15, 1769,
and on August 10, 1792, saw the Paris
mob overturn the ancient monarchy of
France. On August 15, 1812, the Comet,
first steamboat to ply for hire in Euro-
pean waters, began a tri-weekly service
between Glasgow and Greenock. On
August 1, 1834, the 770,280 slaves in
British colonies were emancipated as
“apprentice laborers.” Johnny Fawk-
ner’s first party reached the Yarra in
August, 1835. Krakatoa volcano blew
up on August 26, 1883. And on August
4, 1914—we haven’t recovered yet from
that explosion.
¥ * 4 *
“F.S.”: When I contemplate the
Aphrodite statue at the Vic. National
Gallery, I can’t help feeling a sneaking
admiration for the young French artist
who has risked a heavy sentence by steal-
ing Watteau’s £20,000 picture “L’lndif-
ferent” because he wanted to draw atten-
tion to the shocking way the Louvre
authorities had restored it. The left leg
of Aphrodite in Melbourne has been re-
stored, and anybody who runs his eye
down the contours of the body and
doesn’t get a painful shock when he
reaches the spot where the restorer started
to do his dirty work must be utterly in-
sensitive to female beauty. If the young
Frenchman’s action saves the Watteau
from further “restoration” at the hands
of the authorities he ought to be given,
not a spell in gaol, but the ribbon of the
Legion of Honor.
* H= * $
“Ek Dum”: Nice sense of deference
some of our flapper reporters have. Dur-
ing any influenza epidemic you may read
in the Sydney press that “Hon. W. H.
Blutwurst is absent from his office
through illness,” or “The Premier, Hon.
C. A. Towser, is confined to his bed till
Wednesday,” but when the really great
are stricken by irreverent germs, here’s
the way we do it:
An acute attack of influenza has dis-
appointed Mr. Zukor Q. Garbo, managing
director of Doreen Films, and Million
C' h members, to whom he was to lecture,
alike.
“C.R.”: Melbourne’s skirted police are
nothing if not versatile. When the
Monterey was moving off from Port Mel-
bourne bound for U.S.A. the other after-
noon a well-dressed girl tore to the wharf
edge and began screaming a name that
presumably belonged to a member of
the crew, who were lining the ship’s side
taking a deep interest in the proceedings.
After nearly falling into the water the
distracted creature began to run to and
fro along the wharf looking for the
gentleman, and she was so oblivious of
all else that a huge electric travelling
crane nearly rah over her. At this point
she was rescued by the policewomen,
who led her away, murmuring words of
comfort in her ear, if any words are
comforting in such a situation. At about
the same time two other women con-
stables were breaking up a brawl in front
of a neighboring pub and arresting three
muscular fighters.
* * * #
“One Ma”: In his rush from Sydney
to Adelaide and back, Adolph Zukor,
from Hollywood, found time to step off
in Melbourne and inspect the gadget of
a suburban inventor, H. B. Manderson,
of Hawthorn, who for the last four years
has been working in his back premises
on a device for giving solidity and the
illusion of distance to the objects on the
screen. No so-called three-dimensional
device hitherto has given the illusion of
distance which is produced by the cor-
rect defining of tonal relationships. All
that has been done is to make films
stereoscopic, which means separating its
parts into planes more sharply. But
planes in Nature aren’t separated like
that, they merge into one another. If
the Hawthorn inventor has made films
truly three-dimensional he has solved a
problem that has been obsessing painters
for a thousand years and Hollywood
engineers for a decade. What Mr. Zukor
thought of the Manderson method hasn’t
been divulged.
* * * *
“Old Opencut”: A businessman re-
ceived a telegram from his wife advising
of her departure by a certain train. To-
wards the end of its journey this train
would traverse a section of the country
which was in a state of unrest. The man
consulted a local authority. He was coldly
informed that if his wife was discovered
on the train in the affected area his busi-
ness would be closed forthwith. A Jew
in Central Europe? Oh, no! Merely a
good Australian in Broken Hill (N.S.W.).
His wife proposed to travel on a “black”
train between Ivanhoe and Menindie.
Had she done so his business would
have been declared “black” and his
premises picketed ; and when that
happens in the Hill you close up
and get out. This man got over the diffi-
culty by wiring to the police at Ivanhoe
to remove his wife from the train. A
motor trip of 520 miles saw her safely
home. Heil!
* * *
“C.R.” : He was an assertive little pas-
senger, and he seemed to know every-
thing about everything. One day he
challenged the fourth officer’s knowledge
“Remember now , all you've got to do is bleat like a lamb."
of seamanship. “You’ll be telling
that 1 don't know how to tie a knot
next?” roared the fourth officer.
suppose you can,” was the answer. “But
I’ll let you lash me to a chair as tight as
you like, and if I’m not free inside thirty
seconds I’ll shout you a bottle.” The
wager was accepted, there was an ad-
journment to the boat deck, and before
a large assemblage the fourth officer
tied his tormentor into a chair, using a
multitude of bends and hitches and twist-
ing the rope savagely over wrists and
ankles. Then a sheet was held up
in front of the performer. Twenty
seconds later it was torn from the grasp
of the two sailors holding it, and the little
man was revealed standing at freedom.
He was a retired “escapologist” who
once had himself thrown over the
Princes Bridge, Melbourne, encased
in a strait-waistcoat and three portman-
teaus, one inside the other.
* * * *
“Tosh”: Australia may be 98 p.c.
British, but the 2 p.c. that isn’t of
Anglo-Saxon derivation pulls a strong
oar. Here are a few of the names in a
recent Commonwealth “Gazette” of
people who had passed exams, for en-
trance to the public service or for promo-
tion within the service: Kuhn, Walstab.
Pedrina, Garcia, Schreiber, Rosenskjar,
Winkler, Du Rieu, Baehnisch, Houstein.
Brocker, Sakrzewski, Ansaldo, Kreis.
Schmidt, Zerner, Wehrle, Jansen and
Carelio.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: This city has had an odd
charge of baby-abandonment under the
Children’s Protection Act. An infant of
10 days was left on a hedge on a cold
night. The defence was that it was
warmly wrapped up and put in a place
where it was pretty sure to be found
soon: “I thought it would be better off
with someone else.” In view of an un-
happy domestic life, the mother got off
with two months. The police then men-
tioned that last year the same woman
sent a baby to them by her mother, who
said she had found it on the racecourse.
* * He $
“Spokeshave”: The centennial celebra-
tion committee of Wellington (M.L.) is
up against a problem, sundry people hav-
ing been shocked at the title “The Blood)
Tower” being applied to a replica of the
Tower of London, which for some vague
reason is part of its celebratory efforts.
Right-thinking people are the same the
world over, and when the A.B.C. in Mel-
bourne put over a studio performance of
Shakspeare’s “King John” it was stag-
gered to find next morning that its well-
intentioned effort had produced the
largest collection of abusive letters in its
history. Thousands of listeners had been
moved to passionate protest against one
of the characters having the title of
“Bastard.” This was a title of nobility
with a recognised order of precedence for
the illegitimate sons of English monarchs,
and in the Bard’s day was just as respect-
able as “bloody.”
* * * #
“Kerys”: George, the sergeant at our
local police station, had stayed up late
to finish a report. It \vas well after mid-
night when the door opened and a worthy
citizen known to George by sight only
sidled in. From his general air and the
aroma that arrived with him, it was
evident to George that his visitor had
been among the flagons. Tiptoeing to
the table and breathing heavily and beer-
ily down George’s back, he said apolo-
getically : “Sergeant, I’ve been to a parshy
up the streesh, and my wife makes sush
a damn’ fuss I want you to wrish me a
note for being lashe.” George, being a
good sport, took a sheet of paper and
wrote: “Please excuse bearer for being
late home. He has a good reason for
it,” and told his caller to get along. He
toddled off happily, in a back-to-child-
hood dream, with the note clutched in
his hand. And his wife, being a sport
also, accepted the note, and contributed
a cup of coffee towards his rehabilitation-
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: Who fired the
first shot for the British Empire in the
Great War? Ex-Bombardier Purdue
then of the R.A.G.A., now an inspector
to the Munitions Supply Board at Mari-
byrnong (Vic.), was the firing gunlayer
who put a shot across the bows of the
German steamer Pfalz shortly before 1
p.m. on August 5, 1914, from Fort
Nepean as she was steaming towards
Port Phillip Heads from Melbourne.
That happened about three hours after
the declaration of war by Great Britain
on Germany, and was the only shot fired
on a potential enemy in Australia during
the war. She stopped, and a naval board-
ing party took her back to Melbourne.
Sergeant Carter of that gun-crew is now
a W.O. at Queenscliff, and Corporal
Birtnell is sergeant-storeman at Broad-
meadows Camp.
PRE-SPRING BALLAD.
“An early spring is predicted by N.S.W. meteoro-
logist Mares.”
Come, youthful gallants, let your fancies stray
To thoughts of love (lightly or otherwise);
Come, burnished doves, and cheerily display
A livelier iris to our waiting eyes;
Come, blokes who smite the lyre, awake,
arise!
Prepare your vernal melodies to sing,
For Mares, our keenest watcher of the skies,
Is laying odds upon an early spring.
The daffodils are here, so gold and gay,
Beating the swallow as he hither flies;
Nearer there draws the season day by day
That warms the sanguine hearts of racing
guys.
Soon will we hear the strepitatious cries
That mark the operations of the Ring,
And women’s hats and frocks will advertise
The welcome presence of an early spring.
Come, Boniface, and put the rum away!
As sure as chilly August wanes and dies,
Will beer return to reassert its sway
And ample pots of brewery supplies
Be bottomed with appreciative sighs
From misty morn to dewy evening.
For Mares, the cutest of the weatherwise,
Firmly prognosticates an early spring.
He’s not invariably right, you’ll say,
And likes at times to keep us on a string.
But this is definite, downright, O.K.—
Mares confidently tips an early spring.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“She must have got into the lucerne paddock, Dad.”
“X.S.”: An 18-year-oid prisoner, in
Pentridge (Vic.) for illegal car-using, was
asked as a pupil in the gaol school to
write-an essay on the theme “If I Were
Rich.” Ninety-nine out of a hundred per-
sons in his position would write some-
thing they thought would be pleasing to
their gaolers, but this young man pro-
duced the following:
If I were born rich I would travel the
world, especially the wild west, where I
would try to meet up with the gun-slick
hombres and pay them to cause a little
gun-playing, so that I could be a spectator.
Then to America to meet up with the
underworld, and perhaps help them. And
if I hit the pen 1 would do my time the
same as others —and as I am now. I
think every man should spend about six
months of his life in gaol, because a man
learns more there in six months than he
does on the outer in twelve.
His teachers sent this evidence of moral
turpitude on to higher authorities, and
Melbourne “Argus” solemnly remarked
that he “may modify his views after an
interview yet to be arranged with the
Inspector-general.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: That a motor smash can for
once be funny has been shown in a
country town of S.A. A motorist drove
away from his club, and down the street
turned a sharp corner, hearing a crash
behind him the next instant. He went
back to investigate, and found tangled in
the wires of a park fence the car of a
friend whom he had left at the club. So
he went back to report theft and wreck-
ing and abandonment by miscreants un-
known. Yet, when it was made public,
bystanders declared that the discoverer
of the crime had driven down the street
himself towing the other car, which at
the corner broke loose and carried on
into the fence. The front bumper-bar
of the injured car must have been left
entangled with the other’s rear one.
“Selma”: Here’s another test of the
refugee. They like walking three or four
abreast, chatting animatedly, and when
they meet a girl or woman there is no
slowing up of their stride; they obvi-
ously expect her to step aside to let them
pass. The Australian, no matter what his
station in life or his manners generally,
does not dispute the sidepath with a
woman. It is not a deliberate practice
with our guests from overseas; it is merely
that they have largely come from countries
where the women step aside as a matter
of course. When they realise that the
Australian woman has no intention of
forsaking the pavement they make way
themselves, willingly, and usually with a
surprised word of apology.
* * * *
“Stan”: Two barnstorming aeroplanists
came to our village last week, and the
younger enjoyed considerable popularity
at the brass rail whenever he cared to open
up on the flying game. “Yes,” he assured
a breathless audience, “man has flown a
long way since he first put on wings.
Even the birds can’t teach him anything
now.” “Maybe you’re right,” agreed old
Joe, “but I’ve yet ter see the bloke who
can sit comfortable on a barb-wire
fence.”
“Jachris”: I came back from lunch to
find that someone had walked off with
my overcoat, evidently under the impres-
sion that his need was greater than mine.
I rang the Force, explained my trouble
to half a dozen different people, and
half an hour later two six-footers, both
of them in plainclothes, arrived with
notebooks They took particulars —
when I’d bought the coat, distinguishing
marks, estimated value, original value.
But after they’d gone away and I heard
nothing for a couple of weeks I thought
my little trouble must have been for-
gotten in the rush of anti-s.p. activity.
Then the other morning I was called to
the ’phone. “Detective Blank here” ;
“Ah, yes!” said I; “Wait a moment,
please.” He was back again shortly with
a bright “Don’t suppose you’ve heard
anything about your coat?” “Not
thing,” I answered expectantly. “Well,”
he said, “I circularised all pawnbrokers
first, then the second-hand shops, and I
haven’t heard a thing about it either. If
I do I’ll let you know.”
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: When some nervously
voluble lad with shiny elbows and fallen
arches sends your muse scuttling for
cover in order to sell you a hydraulic
jew’s-harp or a pocket washing-machine
on a nominal deposit and absurdly easy
terms, don’t commit mayhem or even
use violent language. He wouldn’t be
the bond slave of .a go-getter firm if he
could find any other way of earning a
crust. The go-getters pay him a nominal
retainer, usually £1 p.w., but, by a mere
formality in the contract, only if the
profit on that week’s sales equals or ex-
ceeds that amount. Also, in my State
at least, he has to hand over in
cash a “fidelity bond” to whatever
amount he can extract from relatives
and/or friends, usually from £lO to £25,
and sign on the dotted line. If he finds
that the job is a complete washout, he
very soon discovers that, under an un-
obtrusive clause over the same old dotted
line, he has signed away his deposit. It
is a cruel form of swindling for which
there should be drastic legal remedies.
* * * *
“Hamer”: As a long-distance money-
spinner, that fraud the “Convict Ship
Success” would take a lot of beating.
When I was only ten my parents took me
to have a look over the floating horror,
which attracted crowds at a bob a time,
threepence for children, when it was
berthed at the Circular Quay, Sydney, in
1893 ; and apparently it is going strong
in America even unto to-day. The Aus-
tralian Government is being urged to
back the protests occasionally made
against the fake by Australians in
Yankeeland. Actually the Success landed
in 1840 at Moulmein, carried two lots
of immigrants to Australia, and in 1852
was bought by the Victorian Government
to be fitted as a prison ship—the gold
rush had caused a rush on the gaol
accommodation. Sold later and brought
to Sydney as a hulk, the vessel sank in
the harbor in 1885, but was raised five
years later and fitted out for exhibition
is a convict ship. The cramped punish-
ment cells, manacles and flogging
triangles that gave me shivers as a kid
were pure showmen’s additions. Yet
Melbourne, as well as Sydney, accepted
the fake as genuine 46 years ago, and the
world has been accepting it ever since.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A young Melbourne
medico who has been serving with the
Army Medical Corps at Karachi has
come back with a new respect for
the powers of the Indian yogi. One day
one of the fraternity turned up at the
military hospital and offered to demon-
strate that he could stop and start his
heart by mental processes only. Immedi-
ately he had half a dozen stethoscopes
planted on him, and six young scientists
listened-in while the man who had tran-
scended Nature by contemplating his
navel shut his eyes and stopped breath-
ing. After a few moments his heart
stopped beating, starting up again after
three minutes. In other words, he appar-
ently did something that is theoretically
impossible, for there is no indigenous
bodily mechanism which can replenish
the supply of oxygen to the brain which
would have enabled the yogi to think
himself alive again, even after five
seconds. After the demonstration the
yogi get up and walked out in his loin-
cloth to disappear into the mysterious
chaos of India.
"We must be travelling very fast, Martha; we're still in front ”
POPULAR NAMES.
“A review of ‘S. M. Herald’ birth notices for the
first six months of the year shows that one boy in
every six was named John and one girl in every
10 was named Margaret.”
The fashions ever subtly change,
Like modes in frocks or styles in hair,
When fond progenitors arrange
What monikers their kids shall wear.
One name alone still holds its own
As firmly as in days agone
And views no rival near the throne —
One boy in six is christened John.
William and Robert, George and James,
Though stayers all, make scant pretence
Of interfering with his claims
Or challenging his eminence.
Thomas and Henry —Richard, too —
Though sturdily they struggle on,
Can never draw, as once they drew,
Within a dozen lengths of John.
Yet Mary, once as popular,
By some inexplicable fate
Has just as surely got a jar
And fallen from her high estate.
’Tis not as when within our ken
On ev’ry side she might be met,
For now one infant girl in ten,
It seems, is labelled Margaret.
She’s shown a turn of speed somehow
That wins for her the pride of place.
Ah, where are Joan and Helen now,
Edith and Ethel, Jane and Grace?
Where are Elizabeth and Ann?
Where Catherine and where Lynette?
All in the ranks of “also ran,”
Far in the wake of Margaret.
Well, here’s to all the he’s and she’s
Whose names are in conjunction set,
From Abelard and Heloise
To Romeo and Juliet!
And, for a happier fate designed,
Let’s hope that in the years anon
Every Jack his Peg wifi find.
And ev’ry Margaret her John.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


fd
10 for 9°
20 for I'6
50 for 3'9
100 for 7/6
for greater
smoking enjogment
CRAVENA
■fa/
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
2817
POLITICAL POINTS
Mair has confessed himself a stopgap
Premier. Going to a U.A.P. rally at
Croydon, he burbled, “I look forward
to and pray for the day when Mr.
Stevens will once again be Premier of
New South Wales.” His prayer might
be answered if he omitted two words
and substituted for the last five “Chair-
man of the County of Cumberland
Council.”
Mair has put Treatt (Woollahra) and
Tonking (Orange) in his Ministry, trans-
ferred Richardson from Labor and In-
dustry to the Treasury, and shifted Mar-
tin and Gollan about. Martin goes from
Justice to Works and Local Government
and Gollan to Labor and Industry;
Treatt succeeds Martin, and Tonking
Gollan. In effect, Mair becomes Premier
without portfolio, the same as Mr.
Stevens (in his last phase) and Mr.
Dwyer-Gray, of Hobart, and Mr. Cham-
berlain.
The ridiculous Hobart and Sydney imi-
tations of Westminster practice have no
effect on Dunstan. That uncompromis-
ing person remains Premier, Minister of
Works and Solicitor-General. As such,
he is now in his fifth year, and there is
no sign that his powers have suffered —
in fact, Canberra complains that he is
too dashed energetic.
When military retiring ages were re-
duced at the instance of Lieut.-General
Squires, it was known at Canberra that
certain heads would roll into the basket,
but it was never imagined that those of
Jess, the Adjutant-General, and Phillips,
the Q.M.G., would be among them.- Had
the faintest hint that these officers were
doomed been given, Minister Street
would have had to answer to Parliament.
Actually, as a commander in the field,
Jess had more experience against a first-
class enemy than Street’s adviser.
A song was made about youth getting
its chance when Viscount Gort was
placed at the head of the British Army,
and Australia was urged to profit by the
example. Major-General Jess, to be
compulsorily retired, is two years older
than Viscount Gort and two years
younger than Lieut.-General Squires.
When Parkhill came out for Warringah
in 1927 he had Bruce, Latham (then
Bruce’s Attorney-General), Hughes and
Marr to speak for him and explain that
Archie was the only genuine branded
“Nationalist” in the field, the rival
“Nationalist” being bogus—they were all
“Nationalists” then. Spender was bogus
last time, but he beat Archie, and
Menzies and Stewart have already
promised to speak for Spender next
time ; and Billy, if available, will be on
the platform also, it being a tradition
with Billy to shout with the larger crowd.
So Archie will have to risk apoplexy and
fracture of the voicebox protesting that
he isn’t bogus. It isn’t fair!
Mair says he is willing to have the
Woolcott-Forbes mystery probed, and as
soon as present proceedings permit the
thing should be done thoroughly. Not
by a royal commission spread over two
or three years, with wigged word-
spinners addressing the Commissioner
for days or weeks, but by a select com-
mittee ; no dogs or lawyers admitted.
What a roar would have gone up from
the U.A.P. press had the big fish that
got away been a Labor fish, and had
the politicians with whom he had trans-
actions or associations been Labor, not
U.A.P.!
“Leave of absence on urgent private
business” was granted to Bertie Lloyd,
the U.A.P. member for Mosman, when
he was called upon to answer a criminal
charge—he did it to the satisfaction of
the jury—based on his connection with
a company that struck trouble. Pre-
sumably the same procedure will be
necessary in the case of R. B. Walker,
the U.A.P. member for Hawkesbuoy,
who has been arrested on a conspiracy
charge in which Woolcott-Forbes is
named. Walker is under remand to
appear at Sydney Central Police Court
on September 18, on bail of £lOOO.
Mair to the newspapers “after Minis-
ters had completed their consideration
of additional taxation”:
The public will be asked to dip rather
deeply into their pockets.
State politicians dipped rather deeply
into their pockets last October, after it
“Mr. Hughes has embarrassed the Government again by talking of ‘a lightning-like
German swoop on Rumania, Poland and Yugoslavia.’”
“ That’s not to keep gas out, Billy, but to keep it IN!”
was alleged that there would be a surplus
of just on £BOOO, instead of which there
was a deficit of at least £2,750,000, prob-
ably understated by a million. The grab
was dated back four months. To ask
for restitution would be like appealing
to a vulture to drag itself off its prey ;
but if repeal of the Grab Act doesn’t
precede “additional taxation” the grab-
bers will have written the death warrant
of their so-called Parliament.
Roberts, the know-all professor, has
discovered that “the Foreign Minister of
Hungary, the unhappy Count Czaky, is
undergoing the martyrdom of Schu-
schnigg,” of Austria, “and Hacha,” of
Czechoslovakia —as a preliminary to
Hitler annexing Hungary or something
like that. At the same time Hungarians
are attending German army manoeuvres.
Roberts doesn’t mention this trifling cir-
cumstance, though it has been stated in
cables and over the air.
The secretary of Sydney’s Howard
Reform League has gone on a hunger
strike, mitigated with spinach juice, as a
protest against the hanging of an un-
speakable ruffian who killed a Tenterfield
(N.S.W.) station girl and nearly killed her
brother in unspeakably revolting circum-
stances. People would be much more
profoundly impressed if all the members
of the League went on a hunger strike
as a protest against murder. Possibly
messieurs les assassins would be so
affected that there would be no more
beastly killings.
Victoria is to have a grand new Gov-
ernment Tourist Bureau G.H.Q. in
Collins-street, Melbourne, air-conditioned
at a cost of £4BOO, and furnished and
equipped regardless of expense. The
premises have been taken on a 20 years’
lease at £B5OO p.a,—the rent of the prem-
ises from which the concern is moving
was “about” £3270 p.a., the arrangement
having been made by the Railway
Department, which has an annual deficit
of truly royal dimensions. Possibly the
“Australian National Travel Association”
will be invited to take up its quarters in
the air-conditioned palace. It enjoys Rail-
way Department patronage, and got
£32,000 last year from Canberra for
“tourist publicity,” overseas trips and
cushy jobs included.
“The famous French commentator
‘Pertinax’ ” explains why “Axis efforts to
advance a peace plan are not likely to
succeed.”
In the first place, Poland has become
sole arbiter in the Peace Front concerning
the future of Danzig, and in the second
place the Democracies will not negotiate
unless Russia is included.
So that’s the position, is it? Then the
part assigned to the British Empire in the
Peace Front is to accept humbly what-
ever the superior Poles and French
choose to prescribe for it.
A break with the Country party was
proposed last week at a tempestuous
meeting of the U.A.P. Council in Syd-
ney, and it is to be put to a vote of that
body next month. It is backed by the
Spooner faction, Peter Loughlin and
Marr, M.H.R.—Marr, supporting it, de-
scribed the C.P. as a “menace,” Marr
himself being, of course, a political gift
of God to the nation. Well, there’s no
law against parties committing suicide.
Funeral notice in advance, from the
“World’s Press News”:
“Ken,” American weekly, published by
the “Esquire-Coronet” group, will suspend
publication with the August 3 issue. It
was changed from fortnightly to weekly
publication early in the spring, and declin-
ing circulation since then is given as the
reason for the suspension.
So the American public didn’t really like
the Left Wing stuff that Australian papers
lapped up so readily. And not so many
pimpled youths can be seen carrying
“Esquire” about as formerly. “Esquire”
combines Left Wing stuff with smut, and
there is no staying power in either.
The Federal Arbitration Court has laid
it down that 44 hours is to be the stand-
ard working week, or “norm,” and that
anyone who wants a variation from the
“norm” will have to apply for it —and
presumably take his chance of the appli-
cation being lost in “the Serbonian bog”
for years. Whether the country as a
whole or particular industries can afford
the 44-hour week was not discussed. In-
dustrial tribunals have ceased to go into
such questions.
Zionists are calling on “Jews through-
out the world” to “unite against the
British Government because of its Pales-
tine policy.” Presumably the impulse
comes from the American Zionist organi-
sation, which has never had much use
for British Governments. When the
wSupreme Council of the Allies was draw-
ing up the boundaries of Palestine,
Judges Brandeis, of the U.S. Supreme
Court, sent it an American Zionist ulti-
matum studded with the word “must.”
Berthelot, of France, commented drily
that Mr. Brandeis had “a much exag-
gerated sense of his own importance.”
From the June Memorandum of the
Imperial Policy Group, quoted in B.
9/8/’39:
An observer in Palestine stresses the
great efficiency of the Jewish forces. There
are about 50,000 well-drilled men, and
arms experts, formerly employed in the
Skoda works, are producing machine-guns.
There are between 8000 and 9000 automatic
arms, including machine-guns and Lewis
guns, in the hands of the Jewish popula-
tion..also between 40 and 60 regis-
tered pilots. If Weizmann and the moder-
ate members of the Zionist Council were
to resign the more extreme elements would
control these forces. Considering the
growing bitterness against Britain and the
recent developments, this is possible.
On the other hand, eloquent gentle-
men from Palestine who come to Aus-
tralia seeking concessions are positive
that all the Palestine Jews, few of whom
are British, would die for Britain.
The chairman of the Chambers of
Automotive Industries, which protested
against “the continuance of war-scare
talk and its overemphasis by exagger-
ated headlines or unwarranted interpre-
tations,” got home heavily on Sydney
“Sunday Sun,” which had sneered that
his concern wanted a censorship. “For
12 months,” he wrote, “we have been
given a very full measure of alarming
articles, many based on pure specula-
tion” ; and he quoted examples. The
paper came back with a string of
assertions, one being that “calm judgment
on the facts alone is reflected in every
publication. On the very next day Mel-
bourne “Age,” in effect, rejected this
sorry fustian :
To guide civilisation back to a state of
sanity and of safety there may be need
for certain groups of democratic politi-
cians and certain sensation-mongering sec-
tions of the democratic press to be less
inflammatory in their propaganda, less
bellicose in their spirit and less flagrant
in their distortions of facts.
That is decent journalism.


SAILORS DON’T CARE.
“Two policewomen at Port Melbourne walked courageously into a group of brawling sailors outside a hotel and quickly had three of the disputants well under control.


O. S. K.
DE LUXE
To AFRICA and SOUTH AMERICA
By FAST, NEW MOTOR SHIPS.
Ultra Modern
M.S. “ARGENTINA MARU”
and “BRASIL MARU.”
Designed for Tropical Travel. Appoint-
ments include De Luxe Suites, Indoor and
Outdoor Swimming Pools, Ballroom, etc.
Regular monthly sailings from Kobe via
Hongkong, Singapore, Colombo, Durban,
Capetown to South America.
Other New Motor Ships to East and West
African and South American ports.
For particulars apply: ,
Managing: Agents in Australasia,
BIRT & COMPANY (PTY.), LTD.,
i Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
yqg SECURITY
SHYEST THIS MODERN WAY
By Buying FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES you secure a “spread” for your
money over 20 leading Companies known through-:
out Australia. You also obtain a yield of over
5 % p.a., potential capital appreciation and trustee
safeguards through the Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 is yours on request to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED,
PERSONAL ITEM!
Leonard Vivian Biggs, editor of Mel-
bourne “Age” from 1927 until his re-
tirement recently, is an Englishman, and
got his first Inky Way experience on
English journals, including London
“Critic.” Came to Australia and
the “Age” in 1899. He was chief of
staff from 1914 to 1920, resigned then to
become secretary of the National Union,
and returned to the “Age” in 1926, to
become editor a few months later. Is
L.V. BIGGS.
a staunch Anglican and a pillar of Synods,
loves debating and plays chess, golf and
bridge.
Poor Frank Wild, who died almost
forgotten by his generation in S’Africa,
was born about 300 years too late for
real fame. He came out of an Eliza-
bethan mould. He paid his first visit to
Australia as a naval trainee on the old
Sobraon in ’B9. The Antarctic always
held a fascination for him —perhaps he
inherited something from his ancestor
Captain Cook, the first explorer to cross
the Antarctic Circle. He won his spurs
as an Admirable Crichton with .Scott’s
first expedition—from dog-feeding and
management to writing a neat report,
Wild could do anything, and became an
inevitable ingredient in almost every
Antarctic expedition, though he missed
Scott’s second one through having re-
turned too late from Shackleton’s 1907-09
show. He was with Mawson, 1911-13,
with the Imperial Trans-Antarctic Ex-
pedition in ’l4, did his bit in the Great
War and was second in command
of the Quest in ’2l. After that he mar-
ried and left exploration with a record
of having spent a decade amid the
southern ice—longer than any other man.
With his marriage and his editing of the
history of Shackleton’s last trip, his con-
nection with ice floes ceased. In 1924 the
R.G.S. gave him its Patron’s Medal.
Exit a Labor stalwart:
The death of W. H. Demaine (80), Nestor
of Queensland Labor, brings back a lot of
memories. In the early days of T. J. Ryan,
when he became head of the Q.C.E. of his
party and the spearhead of the organised fight
against the Leg. Council, everybody in Queens-
land came to know Demaine. To the old-time
dailies he was the Red Menace incarnate, and
Jim Philp wrote verses about him. Billy took
a great pride in his reputation, and, being a
Yorkshireman, it spurred his stubborn nature
to stronger effort. Labor first remembered Billy
as a spry young fellow in his early twenties
who had turned up in Maryborough after a
rcmng boyhood. In 1882 he was discovered
rounding one of the first unions in Maryborough
and shouting for an eight-hour day in his
Ain °* J° iner y- He was a pioneer of the
A.L.P secretary for 51 years of the Mary-
borough branch, and one of the most enjoyable
interludes of his early days was the maritime
strike. In 1917 he became Q.C.E. president. With
it J„ on “ 1S hands and the production of
Alert, a Marybprough paper on which he
was almost everything from general manager to
printer s devil, plus the Mayoralty of one of
the largest rural cities in Queensland (to which
he was unanimously elected in 1933), he passed
a busy old age, but not too busy to allow him
to stand at a by-election when he was 78 and
win the seat left vacant by the death of
Jimmy Stopford, Queensland Mines Minister.
His only other essay at Parliamentary politics
was during his term as a member of the “sui-
cide club”—the Labor-appointed majority which
destroyed the Leg. Council. He was the last
of the old Union Guard in Queensland, a
kindly, determined old man whom everybody
m later years had treated affectionately as a
sort of living national memorial to the birth
of unionism.
South African and A.I.F. veterans regret
the passing, in Mosman (Sydney), of Dr.
Charles Mattei. Member of an old
Maltese family, Dr. Mattei came to Aus-
tralia so long ago as to have been one
of the first medicoes at Kalgoorlie; and
he was in the British Colonial Service be-
fore that When the Boer War called
him he was medico-magistrate at Wynd-
ham, the young Sir Alexander Cockburn-
Campbell being then the lion of the
place. In the Great War he served in
France (he was at Fromelles), Flanders
and Italy. Afterwards he was a Repat.
doctor at Brisbane. His widow, a capital
platform speaker, did a lot of organising
work for the Country party in W.A., and
founded the Westralian Association in
Sydney.
Professor A. D. Ross, attending the
conference of vice-chancellors of Austra-
lian universities in Mel-
bourne, had a dis-
tinguished academic
career in the Old Dart
before he came to Aus-
tralia to occupy the
Chair of Mathematics
at Perth’s free univer-
sity in 1912. His re-
searches in spectro-
scopy, astrophysics and
other matters have had
a world-wide public,
and he was the first to
receive the Kelvin
Medal for researches in
natural philosophy at
Glasgow University,
that institution’s big-
gest distinction in
science.
The patron saint of
dentists (Apollonia, an
elderly virgin who got
all her teeth knocked
out by Roman soldiers
and was acclaimed a
martyr) is being wor-
shipped at the moment
by upwards of 400
gum-diggers from all
parts of the world who
have assembled at Mel-
bourne Uni. Doyen of
the conference is Prof.
W, H. Gilmour, of
Liverpool, who, before
professors of dental
surgery were even
thought of, fought orthodoxy in
England in the interests of the national
molars. He was the first dental profes-
sor in Great Britain. Dr. Robert Strang,
chief visitor from the U.S.A., is the suc-
cessor to Dr. Angle, the orthodontist
who fought the profession in America
for 30 years on the subject of straighten-
ing teeth in childhood. Strang runs the
school which was bought for Angle by
his pupils. Head of the conference is
Prof. Arthur Amies, president of the
Aust. Dental Association.
A reference in last week’s Bulletin to
E. C. Bluett got him tangled up with his
brother, A. R. Bluett. It is A. R. Bluett
who is a solicitor and is secretary to the
Local Government Association. He has
not resigned from that post. E. C. Bluett,
who is not a solicitor, has resigned from
the secretaryship of the Association of
Local Government Clerks. It is he, and
not his brother, who runs a coaching col-
lege for local government officers.
Ernest Lawton Davis, 16 times chair-
man of Sydney Stock Exchange, who
died in Sydney the other day at 81, was
the son of Rabbi Davis. He was born in
Jamaica, but came to Australia young
enough to attend Sydney Grammar
School. He helped to float war loans
during 1914-18 and was associated with
the firm of Hoffnung and Co., Pitt-street.
Dental-surgeon William Stewart Ziele,
of Sydney’s Macquarie-street, who sus-
tained terribly severe injuries in a motor
accident on Sunday, is a Maorilander,
born in Dunedin. His DD.S. came from
Pennsylvania Uni. He is chairman of the
Big Brother movement, a director of
Associated Newspapers, and senior hon.
dental surgeon of Sydney Hospital. Prin-
cipal relaxations, golf and gardening.
Ernest Fisk is in every way one of
Australia’s most remarkable citizens.
Nobody would credit him with his 53
years—he has the athletic make-up of
a man of 35, preserved largely by his
daily swim taken winter and summer
before breakfast. A scientist wholly
devoted to science, he has none of the
scientist’s absentmindedness or exclusive-
ness. He is a crack motor-driver, is good
company, well informed on general
affairs, and brigades his inventiveness
with a keen business brain. He has been
in wireless since he was in knicker-
bockers. At 20 he joined the Marconi
FISK, OF THE A.W.A.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Co., and three years later was sent on
an experimental mission with the North
Pacific sealing fleets. In 1910 he came to
Australia and crystallised the pioneer
effort of a small group of citizens (who
included Macleod of the Bulletin) into
Amalgamated Wireless A/sia, Ltd.,
steered the show to the point where it
became a semi-national utility, backed
by a huge manufacturing plant, pioneered
practical radio and received the first
wireless messages from Britain to be
picked up in Australia in 1918. In Mar-
coni’s later years Fisk was his bosom
friend, in constant telephone communica-
tion with him.
One of the oldest identities of Cairns
(0.) is Alexander, better known as Sandy,
Wilson. He’s getting near the 80 mark
"SANDY” WILSON.
now. He has had 50 years in N.Q., and
built the first rolling stock of the Cairns
railway for Walkers, Ltd., of Mary-
borough. Born in Scotland, he came to
Australia 65 years ago. A son runs the
Sydney office of the Queensland Tourist
Bureau.
Queensland’s only home-grown earl,
fifth of Ducie, Baron Ducie (1763) and
Baron Moreton (1837), of Tortworth
Court, Falfield, Glos, and his equally
dinkum-Aussie Countess, have returned
after a 14 years’ absence to renew old
family and friendly associations. Queens-
land knew him best as Harry—short for
Capel Henry Berkeley—Moreton, son of
B. B. Moreton, who represented the
Maryborough district for many years in
the Leg. Council. The Earl played a
good game of cricket in the 1890’s, and
was a fine amateur horseman. His
Countess is a daughter of the late
Frederick Bryant, also of Maryborough.
The heir to the title is A. H. Moreton, of
Falfield station, in the Nikenbah (C.Q.)
district.
“P.G.”: To Dr. J. Monahan Lewis,
president of the Dental Congress which
has attracted 500 dentists to Melbourne,
dentists the world over are indebted for
the discovery of the real nature of the
worst scourge they have to deal with. It
was Dr. Lewis who first located pyorrhoea
in the gums and gave it its name of
“pyorrhoea gingivce.”
John Brownlee, the Geelong chorister
who became one of the world’s leading
baritones, has returned to Melbourne for
an Australian season. On his previous
visit his birthplace was pretty near
emptied on the nights when he appeared
in grand opera at His Majesty’s in the
metropolis. His cherished project is to
see the Glyndebourne opera co. perform-
ing in this country. Some of his biggest
successes were made with it. But the
A.B.C. has an opera company under its
hat for next year, as well as dozens of
virtuosi, and unless there is more co-
ordination between entrepreneurs in the
future than there has been lately the
chances of the English organisation ven-
turing on the voyage are of the slightest.


Tfa, 9 szt of iJIvA
‘Vn»i£/ 0 JU-K& *fc(lW ....
The fascination of a Feltex floor grows stronger as
you live with it and discover more and more its
good points. Feltex, in plain colours or marbled
effects, lends luxury to floors, is silent and soft to
the tread, and makes “Home Sweet Home.” Feltex is
economical too —don’t forget, it’s 50 inches wide. It
is easily cleaned with FELTEX DUAL CLEANER and is
reversible.
See the range at any good furniture store, or write for fret
pattern card to Department SG, Box 3281 PP., G.P.0., Sydney.
Insist on Genuine FELTEX—Look for the Name!
fG24B
r'
/
.if iv..'
ft
eg
|j|
sn
'"Wx/,
i
.
•«.
*5
: '®v :
H
sa -■
|:
SV*PS
:«1
lillllll
«
Hi
S
|M|gg
■
Sf
■■
:
■ i : . I
0
s.&3*ioafmmA
m
*Wm* p€|M
jL g**s& y* /; T
v * ' S-'
P^ M
IfwS s» mpl Ay
P
>7
\ <&
' ** * > *
W •>
_ > .
ilSli
ISfowwa
T 1 ® 5
ll
■hi
-
H
»•


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The old boss was never
one to get himself up in flash duds, and
any stranger coming to the station could
be pardoned for mistaking him for one
of the hands. Thus the perambulating
parson, arriving on a Sunday and seeing
a man in dungarees clipping a horse, saw
the field of endeavor open before him.
“I suppose you know which command-
ment you break by working on a Sun-
day?” he asked. “No-o,” said the boss.
He was told. Then the parson asked him
more questions. Finally the boss said,
“Now, mister, how many sheep an acre
you reckon this place’ll carry?” The
minister didn’t know. “Well, if y’ did,”
snapped the boss, “y’d know that in a
dry spell like this we gotter work night
an’ day, an’ do odd jobs on Sunday. So
it’s either bust commandments or lose
y’r sheep. Every man t’ his job, mister,
an’ mine is runnin’ sheep, not keepin’
commandments. You go up t’ the house
an’ get a cup o’ tea ; y’ll find we ain’t
really wicked here—we’re only sinners.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Owe the Council a
humble apology. Slip of the tongue in
B. 9/8/’39 made me say I’d found “a
cod exactly 31b. 20z.” inside a black-and-
white shag on the Murray. What I meant
to say was “cod exactly 31b. 20z.” (four
separate fish).
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: “I’ve put up fences all
over the Commonwealth,” old Dan told
us, “but the only time I reely enjoyed the
job was when me an’ a mate was shovin’
up half a mile of post-an’-rail down near
the bottom end of the South Oss border.
Talk about good sinkin’! Marshy ground
it was, with some sort of suction in it;
jist had to stand your post up, stick
your foot in the bottom mortise hole,
give a shove downwards an’ your post
was up. Matter er fact, she was jist a
bit too easy. When we brought the boss
down to pass the job the mornin’ after
we finished, blast me if the flamin’ fence
ain’t disappeared completely. A mob of
starlin’s had camped on it durin’ the
night an’ pushed the whole damn’ line
down to ground level!”
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: Talking of bush foot-
wear (B. 2 / 8 / ’39), a cocky down our way
always keeps handy a pair of what he
calls “hikin’ boots.” They are ordinary
bluchers, with a flat, sharpened strip of
iron bolted so that about 2in. projects
beyond the toecap. He dons them when-
ever he has occasion to walk through
“CHEAT!"
his domain, and it takes only a sharp
klck to dlslod g e . the Stoutest thistle or
burr. To see him in double-footed action
amongst a thick patch of noxious weeds
jf en . to rouse the env y of the fastest
hoe-handler.
* * *• *
“Bushy Park”: If the folk of the coastal
,• . • ~ , •, . , ,
districts ever decide to erect a statue
to th eir greatest benefactor, the unsung
hero who perfected rubber kneeboots
should be the one selected for the honor,
I don’t know his name or race, but he has
banished the untold misery of sopping
socks and wet feet that was once the
lot of most wet-district dwellers during
the winters. Even to-day there are a
few diehards who prefer to slop through
cow- and horseyards with the slush ooz-
ing over and through their leather boots
(I’ve never yet struck a leather boot that
was actually watertight); but 90 p.c. use
gumboots.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Birds like the wild duck
have no wireless system of their own (B.
26/7/’39). They are guided by the same
senses that we possess. Watch ducks on
a lagoon during a dry spell, and you’ll
notice that they keep pretty quiet as long
as the weather is hot and dry, but the
least hint of sultriness in the air makes
them restless, and on their usual nightly
wing-stretching they will-fly higher than
usual. The reflection of distant lightning
can be seen for astonishingly long dis-
tances at night; from a hilltop near Adel-
aide I have seen the lightning of a storm
which I later discovered was near Port
Augusta, over 200 miles away. Ducks
know by instinct what that faint, quiver-
ing glow on the horizon means, and they
head for it at once ; if the storm is a
dry one they’ll be back again before
dawn. A flight of 400 miles or so is
nothing to them.
* * * *
“Den”: “Son Downer” (B. 9/8/’39) is
apparently unaware that, in the Ma State
at any rate, a regulation of the Bushfires
Act forbids the lighting of a fire in a
hollow tree.
* * * *
“The Detonator”: The story “Grab-
bing a Bloke” (B. 26/7/’39) reminds
me of a man I had working on the plan-
tation. Granny had met him and pro-
claimed him “one of Nature’s gentlemen,”
which was not much of a recommenda-
tion, but as a hand was wanted on the
planting machine he got the job. For
the first acre or so he went well, but
afterwards he had a faraway look and
missed with the plants. Finally, at the
end of the drill he was told the job was
finished as far as he was concerned. He
took it as a perfect “Nature’s gentleman”
would, and explained that he had been
working out how many gallons of rum
could be produced from the final returns
of that field, rum being his first and fore-
most thought.
* * * »
“Leon”: “Talkin’ about dorgs,” said
old Dan, “I ’ad a retriever once w’en I
was livin’ in Melbourne, an’ I never
knew what the name meant till one night
the ’ouse catches fire. Me an’ the
missus each grabs an armful o’ kids an’
rushes out into the yard, when the missus
yells ’Cripes! Alfie ain’t ’ere!’ Before
anyone could move the dorg, ’oo was
follerin’ us out, turns round an’ rushes
back into the blazin’ ’ouse an’ in two
shakes ’e comes out agen carryin’ the
missin’ kid. Well, everyone’s standin’
round the dorg congratulatin’ ’im an’
pattin’ ’im when ’e suddenly breaks away
an’ dashes back into the flames agen, an’
we’re all wonderin’ if the excitement’s
gorn to ’is ’ead like, an’ w’ether ’e’d
gorn to commit sooicide or somethin,’ but
in a coupla minutes ’e comes out uv the
smoke waggin’ ’is rudder an’ drops some-
thin’ at me feet. An’ what d’yer think
it was? The fire insurance policy
wrapped up in a damp towel! By cripes,
I’ll never get a dorg like ’im agen.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: In spite of the fact that
for centuries Englishmen have killed
rabbits with the traditional clip from the
edge of the open palm on the neck, I’m
satisfied the method is slower and less
humane than the Aussie practice of hold-
ing the victim by the back legs, gripping
the back of his skull (fingers under the
jaw) with the other hand and quickly
pulling downwards, at the same time
twisting the wrist up. Bumped off thus
it is dead before its body hits the ground.
Once heard a heated argument between
an elderly Scot and an Aussie youth on
the merits of each mode of dispatch. To
settle the resultant bet 53 live rabbits
collected from the fence pit-traps were
put into a big wire-netting crow-trap,
and the contestants got in with ’em. Each
man picked a corner to throw his “bag”
in, and the massacre started. It lasted
something under a minute ; final scores:
Australia 32, Scotland 21.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: That enterprising
Australian Sister Fitzgerald is back in
Queensland with her trailer outfit and
a string of fine horses for the Show
season. A nurse in Orange (N.S.W.),
she had a health breakdown and de-
cided for an open-air life. Her father
is a successful horsebreeder, so she had
a 28ft. trailer built to accommodate 15
animals, and with a staff of three men,
two cattle-dogs, four poms., a magpie
and a cockatoo she travels the shows
from Victoria to North Queensland, ex-
hibiting and selling the family horses.
The trailer enables night travel to be
avoided, the horses arrive unfatigued and
fresh, and they can be spelled whenever
necessary. A cleated floor bedded well
with sawdust and straw allowls good
speeds to be maintained. Steep hills are
the only difficulty, as the animals are
apt to lose their balance on the slope,
but it is a minor one compared with
the advantages.
* * * *
“K.”: “Cam Cove” (B. 9/8/’39) sur-
prises me in not having heard white
pfeller make gumleaf music. The art is
easily acquired by holding one side of
a leaf on the bottom lip and humming
the tune from the stomach, putting
plenty of “brrrrrr” into it to make the
free half of the leaf vibrate against the
upper lip. White Brother mostly prefers
a comb and cigarette-paper, which are
played on the same principle—humming
on the paper to make it vibrate on the
comb.
* * * *
“Seafoodster”: Though “Nor’-west”
(B. 19/7/’39) may fail to appreciate the
many virtues of the whelk, there are
other inhabitants of this continent that
do. Camped a full quarter-mile inland
from a nor’-west W.A. beach we were
much disturbed the first night by a most
infernal rattling around in the dark. Too
weary to leave “nap” to investigate, we
left the matter till daylight But sun-up
revealed nothing resembling ghostly
visitors. Next night no sooner were we
rugged up than the rattling began again.
This time the city bloke, always pretty
“windy” when in lonely places, reckoned
the place was haunted. “Wouldn’t be
surprised but what some of them old
Dutch sailors might have been murdered
round about a place like this,” he stut-
tered. “Well, if they are I’ll settle ’em!”
snapped Darky, lighting a newspaper
torch he had prepared. It took some
time to find the “ghosts” even then. But
ultimately we ran them to earth—those
whelk shells of “Nor’-west’s,” inhabited
by an outsize in hermit crabs. How these
crustaceans got so far from the beach,
and what they lived on, we couldn’t
fathom ; but there they were, roaming
around at night, each with his second-
hand dwelling on him. Came daylight
and there was nothing but a few weather-
beaten whelk shells lying around the
landscape.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: Has a 100 ft. whale ever
been captured? The biggest I know of
was a monster finback that was beached
by killers at East Boyd Bay (N.S.W.)
in ’OB. The carcass, 97ft. long, was taken
to Kiah whaling station. In 1920 an
87-footer of the blue species was washed
ashore at Streaky Bay ; its skeleton went
to the Adelaide Museum. Some years
earlier the skeleton of a mammoth was
cast ashore at Okarito (M.L.); when put
together it measured 85ft. Maorilanders
claimed this was the largest whale on
record. Of course, the complete whale
is longer than its skeleton, but the
Maorilander in life could not have
reached near the dimensions of the
N.S.W. monster.
* * * *
“Chelaka”: Right throughout the East
one comes in contact with Australian
eucalypts (B. 2/8/’39). Singapore island
has three groves; Johore boasts a thriv-
ing kampong sprawling beneath gums
planted years ago in a fever hole of a
swamp, while many swampy areas in
Negri Sembilan and Perak have been
made habitable and healthy by dense
groves of eucalypts. But there is one
gum growing alone in the jungle about
two miles from the Crag Hotel, Penang,
the origin of which will remain a mys-
tery. Writer came across it while con-
valescing in the hills, and a week later
took along another exiled Australian to
see our countryman. He nearly wept
with mingled joy and homesickness.
SKY HUNT.
The tawny half-moon is a fox; there’s a slant
to his eye;
He is older than man but as young as the
gods—and as sly
As the cloven-hoofed satyrs, brown-breasted
and hairy of thigh.
His brush is as yellow as beeswax; his lolling
tongue drips
With shining saliva of dew as slinking he slips
Through the wide rolling meadows and azure
hills high of the sky.
The clouds are young, eager-eyed huntsmen in
white coats of wonder
Who ride untamed stallions of wind, silver-
tafled, silver-maned;
The lightning’s the gleam of the wild horses’
eyes; and the thunder,
The echoing clamor of galloping hoofs, un-
restrained.
And the stars are the hounds, a seething, white,
whimpering pack
Whose jaws slaver mist, and whose pads are
ringed with soft glow;
With keen noses questing they patiently range
forth and back
Till they find the hot scent, when with musical
crying they go
Where the sky harebells bloom and the tides
of the Milky Way flow.
The Master of Hounds winds his magic horn
fashioned of air—
“ Gone away—gone away!” peals the echo, and
down a dale fair
They trample the lunar yines low, for ahead
is a gleam
Of the gold-pelted quarry that flees like a
figment of dream.
So c^ s ? B° es on > dll the ashes of
To blur the hot vision of huntsman and hard-
ridden horse;
The weary hounds drop from the scent as
And foamTckfd and* panfing and harried, the
fpx goes to earth;
And if there is blood on his pads he will lick
Ac hi up? y ;n h'c t f • u u
As he lies in his covert of rainbows through-
out the long day!
Tasmania.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Timmy Willie”: I had taken old
Gudgee George, an unpolished diamond,
out to a property to inspect a mob of
bullocks with a view to buying. What
with gate-opening and the senility of
my car, we didn’t arrive until after dark.
At the rather ceremonious dinner to
which we were bidden by the hospitable
station folk my prospective buyer of
bullocks, to my confusion, tore into the
soup, not waiting for “grace,” through-
out which rite his loud gurglings re-
sounded. But worse was to come. The
station-owner’s two sturdy daughters
happened to be late for the meal, and
when they appeared and were duly in-
troduced, old Gudgee rose to his feet,
stuck out a horny paw and exclaimed
heartily, “By cripes, boss, if yer bullocks
are as in prime condition as yer fillies
’ere they’ll do me!”
* * * *
“Eupodotis”: Game laws? The flout-
ing of them is done almost openly out of
sight of a cop by the very people who
would derive most benefit from their
observance. One spot where such things
simply don’t matter is Longreach (C.Q.).
On my arrival in the Queen Village of
the West a cove informed me that he
had “a couple of corker kookaburras” in
captivity (“captivity” is right—l saw, the
miserable specimens later!). “Aren’t
jackies protected out here?” I asked, and
before the jackies’ keeper had time to re-
spond a chap in the group interjected,
“Holy smoke! Old Fleecerofl’ll be going
crook —I forgot to burn the plain-turkey
feathers. There’s plenty of turks. here now,
and we have ’em for dinner every night
at this time of the year.” “This time of
year,” incidentally, happens to be the
nesting season in Queensland’s west and
nor’-west; and the ironic part about it is
that it was birdman Bernie, of Barcarolle,
Longreach, who was instrumental in hav-
ing the bustard totally protected.
* * *= *
“Murlonga”: “Colonel B.” errs a shade
about the naming of the mining town of
Duchess (B. 2/8/’39). “Old Man” Ken-
nedy named the mine Duchess —after a
station gin! Similar titles followed —The
Countess, Lady Fanny, etc. Marchioness
was tried on one show, but, being long
and cumbersome, was discarded.
“The heater still leaks , Mrs. Mulligan."
“Eureka”: A South Coast (N.S.W.)
abo. had a novel way of catching fish
until he was warned off. Wading out into
the tidal lake at low tide, he would set
a number of spring rabbit-traps with suit-
able fish bait attached to the plates. He
scored consistently, too.
# * * *
“Williami”: Old sundowners tramped
their tracks year in and year out with
never a question as to the quality of the
water; whether they found it in puddles,
dams or streams, it was always good raw
material for tea. Travelled from the
N. S. Wales border over the Toowoomba
mountains to Brisbane recently, and was
scared off the water all the way. Sug-
gestion is a deadly thing in the bush, and,
though I knew the water to be good, we
thirsted between houses until we could
fill the billies. Now that newchums are
masters of the track, wholesome clean
water will continue to be suspect. But
there is a safe and simple test. Never
mind the color of the water, and don’t
worry if it isn’t running. Look for the
little black spidery beetles and take their
word for it. If they are darting about
on the surface you can bet on the water’s
purity.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Watched a whistling
eagle climbing. After fooling about for
a while with his missus he set off for
the blue, soaring in circles about 200
yards wide. Down-wind and across-
wind he kept a smooth, level course, but
turning into the breeze he lifted like
thistledown, flattening out again as he
banked away to the left. At first he
stayed above the valley, but later moved
over the ridge, probably to take advan-
tage of currents which played in those
parts; yet his speed never varied, his
pinions remained rigid. Stiff at full
spread the wings were held as he went
up and up, till he was the faintest speck
against a dome of depthless blue, till
he could be followed only by cupping
the hands to shield the eyes, till he was
out of sight to anybody who had not
followed him from the start. Then,
when to look away would have meant
to lose him, a silver wedge flashed from
the west and passed over his head. White
ibis! How high do those fellows go when
on the move —does anyone know? Can
anyone know?
* * * *
“Langdon”: Two swagmen who were
recently hauled, exhausted and half-
frozen, from underneath a carriage on
the sou’-west mail after travelling for
nine hours from Narrandera to Goulburn
(N.S.W.) on the battery boxes give an-
other proof of the pertinacity or these
products of the present economic system.
Writer has known of many determined
and amusing exploits in this direction.
Occasionally they get in more cramped
positions, as witness the two determined
travellers who in a western N.S.W.
station hopped out of a coffin compart-
ment when it was opened by an under-
taker. But the most impudent trip of all
was made a few years ago by several
“jumpers” who arrived at Narrandera
riding on the rear observation platform
“Quite sure it bombproof now , Boori?”
of the Commis-
sioner’s special train
which was touring
the district on annual
inspection. As the
train drew into the
platform the un-
official guests nimbly
jumped off and got
clear away from the
station staff, who ap-
peared to be stunned
by such a display of
colossal nerve.
* * *
“Dungeness”: A
photograph showing
a gleaming lake
from whose sloping
grassy banks great
trees lean over to
watch their reflected
images in its glassy
waters has convinced
me that, if the
camera doesn’t lie,
it is at least as liable
to be mistaken as is
the human eye. The
picture was taken by
an expert with a
telephoto lens on
the driest stretch of
the Croydon - For-
sayth track (N.Q.)
in the driest season
of a dry year, and
the locality is plainly
identifiable from a
queerly shaped low
hill in the background. It is a picture
of a mirage, a common enough sight in
those parts. The nearest real water is at
'‘Joe’s Joke,” 70 miles further on. When
Joe Hirschberg had a newchum passenger
on the coach marvelling at the mirages,
he would tell him of the beauty they’d
see later. As they neared the pretty billa-
bong and tree-clump the passenger would
wonder more and more at its apparent
reality. “Yes,” Joe would say as they
trotted through it. “Took a wheel orf
’ere once against a stump, it’s that real.”
* * * *
“Yarri”: Not many of the original
Myall tribe of blacks who inhabited the
Bogan country are left, but the name
myall, now a general term for wild, will
always keep them in remembrance. They
were the wildest and fiercest tribe in
N.S.W. Many white men were killed
by them, including Richard Cunningham,
the botanist, and two bullock-drivers who
accompanied Mitchell. They were hated
by neighboring tribes, for, powerful,
savage fighters as they were, they were
always causing trouble. Old hands tell
of a battle with a Murrumbidgee mob,
during which a Myall killed two oppo-
nents with one spear. They were stand-
ing one behind the other, and the spear
went through both. A boomerang thrown
by another Myall cut the head clean off
an adversary.
$ * * *
“Sou’-west”: Like a vast park is the
karri forest, so scanty the undergrowth ;
slum growth, as it were, blotted out by
the voracious giants which need all the
soil nourishment and sunlight for them-
selves. Straight and clean the vast trunks
rise, few to less than 150 feet before
granting life to the first branch. And
from there the leafy top may sweep up-
wards another hundred feet. At the
butts, at shoulder height, four, five, six
and even more men with outstretched
arms it takes to girdle them. Growing
amidst these ancients will be the young
—mere saplings, straight as fishing-rods,
aspiring upwards towards the two
hundred feet. And countless thou-
sands of both old and young, clean
shining trunks that stretch on and
on as though one gazed down the end-
less aisles of a vast Druidic cathedral.
Solid wood, too, is the karri; only rarely
is the most ancient specimen anyway
punky.
* * * <T
“Gumsucker”: Dog kill snake, is it?
Two eight-year-olds were out around
Lake Burrumbeet (Vic.) with a big
black retriever. They were paralysed with
fright when a big black snake suddenly
rose from the grass and swayed a wicked
head at them. A black thunderbolt as
the retriever dashes in. A minute of
writhing snake and snarling dog. Then
a dead snake. Then “Good old Jock!”
as the kids pour otit their gratitude. But
Jock is interested in something else.
More minutes pass, and he starts to cut
capers, running around rubbing his jowls
on the grass; jumping into the air.
whining plaintively. Fifteen minutes and
Jock is dead. The old man holds a post-
mortem. Bit on the tongue. The snake
knew his mark. Doubtful of being able
to get his fangs home through the re-
triever’s thick black hair, he had shot
for the tongue, striking just as the dog
grabbed. I was one of the kids.
THE SEASONS ARE CHANGING.
You’ll hear it, this wearisome phrase,
From cities where humans congest
To realms the lone myall surveys,
And parts loosely known as “Out West.
The scores who repeat it attest
It has potent, if specious, allure,
And this is the burden that’s stressed:
“The seasons are changing, I’m sure!”
Let two or three bright, sunny days
Which make us feel chock-full of zest
Be followed by one that displays
A bleakness that leaves us depressed;
Let chill winds the country invest
In spring, and we have to endure
The opinion on all sides expressed:
“The seasons are changing, I’m sure!”
When your haystack or house is ablaze
And some singular bonehead, possessed
Of strong inquisitional traits
Wants to know what is up, he’s a pest
But really no worse, I suggest,
Than the bird who must always adjure
You to heed, as he gets off his chest:
“The seasons are changing, I’m sure!”
Envoi.
Prince, humbly I plead to be blest;
Just lend me a pickaxe to cure
The next who, in earnest or jest,
Says “The seasons are changing, I’m sure!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE. PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
g
fdg
fdg
dfg
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
KITCHING’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER GOODS.
Leather
Portfolios with
Zipper Fastener.
Sizes:
15in. x lOin.
and 16in. x llin.
Prices from:
16/6 to 32/6.
df
Ideal for
Documents,
Catalogues,
Music,
Reports.
C. E. KITCHING
Pty., Ltd.,
3X9 George Street,
Sydney.
Tel.: 8W7133.
(Near Wynyard
Station.')
GLADSTONE'S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
r Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ a
1930.. 78.057 12,000 124 p.c. = 49,100 16,957 43,000
1931. .66,944 12,000 10 „„ 47,690 7,254 50,254
Premiums on new shfres, £4500 .. 54,754
1932.. 80.535 12,000 10 p.c. = 48,500 20,035 74,789
Premiums on new shares, £44,050 .. 118,839
1933.104,135 12,000 10 p.c. = 56,525 35,610 154.449
Written off, £5OO 153,949
1934.109,777 12,000 10 p.c. = 70,860 26,917 180,866
Premiums on new shares, £22,500 .. 203,366
1935.146,445 12,000 124 p.c. = 89,700 44,745 248,111
Premiums on new shares, £9630 .. 257,741
Bonus scrip issued, £72,360 ( £54,000
from reserve against goodwill, not
treated as an asset herein) .. .. 185,381
1936.168,925 12,000 124 p.c. = 99,856 57,069 242,450
Share premiums, £192,230 .. .. 434,680
1937.240,028 12,000 18J p.c.=171,224 56,804 491,484
Bonus scrip issued, £97,840 . . . . 393,644
1938.261,408 12,000 171 p.e.=188,347 61,061 454.705
1939.274,704 12,000 18f „ „ 201,800 60,904 515,609
Over two years ago the Stevens Govern-
ment appointed Mr. Justice Browne, of
the State Industrial Commission, to in-
quire into the chain-store method of trad-
ing, etc. His report was delivered last
month. The variety chains, of which Coles
is one, have emerged from the investi-
gation with the Judge’s approval; furni-
ture, drapery and frock-and-coat chains
escape adverse comment, but some criti-
cal remarks are made, and remedies sug-
gested, in connection with grocery chains.
Speaking generally, it was found that the
profits of chains on turnover had not been
excessive, and that they had not indulged
in undue price-cutting or restraint of
trade or unfair exploitation of female or
juvenile labor or intimidation of manu-
facturers. “The success of the variety
chains in N. S. Wales which have been
a success is due,” his Honor says, “not to
any improper practices, nor to scurvy
treatment of employees, but to brains,
organisation, competence and fair deal-
ing. all of which have won the confidence
of a very large section of the purchasing
public.”
An ugly aspect of the position, not only
in connection with chain stores, but in
connection with some other businesses,
too, is the increasing employment of
juniors whose services are dispensed with
before they become entitled to a senior’s
wage. This calamitous source of unem-
ployment needs thorough investigation
with a view to appropriate remedies being
provided.
Outstanding feature of Coles’s latest
accounts is further marked expansion
and consolidation of the business, which
is spread throughout metropolitan and
country centres in all the Australian
States. During the year 16 new stores
were added to the chain, making the total
80. Of the 16 eight were in N. S. Wales,
four in Victoria, two in Tasmania and
one each in South Australia and West-
ralia ; and none of them had developed
full earning power before the books
closed. There was some remodelling and
extension of existing stores, chiefly in
Melbourne and Sydney, and freeholds
were bought in Rundle-street, Adelaide,
and in Adelaide-street, Brisbane, the price
mentioned being £155,000 and £50,000
respectively. Remodelling and extension
of the Little Collins-street, Melbourne,
store, as yet incomplete, are expected to
cost between £60,000 and £70,000.
As for trading conditions, the result
of the year’s operations has not, in the
opinion of the directors, been materially
affected by any items of an abnormal
nature. After paying all exes., etc., set-
ting aside £70,000 (up £13,000) for the
taxgatherer, and including £19,343 added
to the freehold depreciation reserve
(£129,076), the board figured net earn-
ings £13,296 better at £274,704, which
was sufficient to pay the pref. div. and
show 24.4 p.c. on ord. capital as against
21.4 p.c. for the preceding term, when
£97,840 of bonus scrip was scattered. The
div. was lifted from 17} p.c. to 18| p.c.,
and 18| p.c. is worth 20.5 p.c. on ord.
capital as it stood before the gift just
referred to. Also, an ord. issue of one
for five at par just before the close of
accounts was in the nature of a bonus
to shareholders, the scrip commanding a
high premium in the market.
Balance-sheet figures reflect the pur-
chase of freeholds and extensions and
alterations to premises and the opening
of new stores already mentioned:
Capital— 1931. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Ord. . . £480,000 £800,775 £1,076,265 £1,094.528
Pref. . . 150,000 150,00-0 150,000 150,000
Overdraft 62,730
Sundry
creditors 37,146* 106,650* 67,392* 116,565*
Employees’
funds 23,635 20,£ 1 '" 37,585
Freeholds 331,817* 572,181* 660,707* 888,506*
Leaseholds 61,214 174,919 217,757 252,917
Fittings, etc. 94,087 251,251 321,832 378,405
Stock . . 224.345 484,645 516,295 532,514
Debtors . . 1,448 3,603 13,072 10,875
Cash, etc. 40,489 8,467 234,810 *69,208
* Not including balance of unpaid purchase money-
on freeholds: 1931-34, £130,000 ; 1936, £144,130 ;
1938, £130,000; 1939, £197,000.
To add £294,799 to the book value of
freeholds, £35,160 to leaseholds, £56,573
to fittings, etc., and £16,219 to stocks, the
board went outside for an extra £128,232,
making the debt £351,150, cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £165,602, and £18,263
was received in prepayments on the new
share-issue —215,250 £1 ords. at par, pay-
able 10s. in July and 10s. in January next.
The shrinkage in the more or less liquid
surplus (£261,447) was £279,812.
When all the money on the new issue
is in, paid capital will be £1,441,515 in
150,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and 1,291,515
ords. On that lot the pref. div., plus
18i p.c. to the ords., would call for
£254,159, or £20,545 less profit than was
shown last term.
The prefs. at 335. 6d. yield 4.7 p.c.,
while the f.-p. pound ords. at 71s. 6d.
return 5.2 p.c. on an 18| p.c. div. basis.
The lOs.-paid contribs. at 58s. 6d. are
worth consideration.
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co,
• To Re — Re—
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 13,945 6J p.c. = 12,324 1,621 2,445
1936.. 34,017 10 „ „ 18,317 15,700 18,145
1937.. 55,259 12jt „ „ 27,268 27,991 46,136
1938.. 82,346 13§ „ ~ 42,969 39,377 85,513
1939.. 98,220 141 „ ~ 55,580 42,640 128,153
This Australian tyre-manufacturing co.,
whose business now extends throughout
all the Australian States and Maoriland,
has put up an extraordinarily good per-
formance. It set up at Melbourne in
1933, just as the economic tide turned
and began to flood again ; and that has
meant much so far as capital, operating
and other costs and the development of
turnover are concerned. To finance ex-
panding turnover over the last five years,
£292,500 has been added to paid capital
(£392,500), which had the support and
assistance of £128,153 of reserves at June
30 —there is no loading for goodwill—
and that after paying dividends aggre-
gating 57 p.c., an average of 11.4 p.c. p.a.
Last term conditions in the trade be-
came more difficult. For the nine
months to the end of March last a drop
of £436,688 in the value of Australian
crude rubber imports (£893,061) was ac-
companied by a rise in the price of this
commodity. Over the same period
chassis imports (£5,405,443) were down
£718,396, and there was a contraction of
4986 in the number of new motor
vehicles registered (63,217) and of 48,218
in the total number of vehicles registered
(846,031). Owing to time lag, the full
effects of all this had not been felt by
tyre manufacturers at June 30. Indeed,
after setting aside £11,956 for deprecia-
tion, Olympic appears to have substan-
tially increased its turnover during the 12
months to that date. Declared net earn-
ings were £15,874 better at £98,220, or
25.1 p.c. on average capital as against
26.3, 25.3 and 18.6 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding terms —the slip in earning power
last term was due to the larger amount
of average capital employed and bigger
wage and tax bills, etc. Half a point
was added to the div., making it 14} p.c.,
the final being at the rate of 15 p.c. p.a.
As for the current term, prospects are
that business in the tyre and other sec-
tions of the motor trade will be less
active. Still, the wide margin between
this co.’s earnings and distributions, the
efficiency of its plant and its satisfactory
financial structure suggest that a 15 p.c.
div. may not prove beyond reach.
The market prices the pound shares
at 50s. 6d. as against 475. a year ago. At
the higher figure the return is 5.6 p.c. on
a 14} p.c. div. basis, or 5.9 p.c. on a 15
p,c. distribution. The net tangible cover
per pound of paid capital is 265. 6d., of
which 19s. sd. is in surplus liquids.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1935. 1937. 1938 1939
Paid capital. . £173,343 £240,500 £387,500 £392,500
Overdraft . . 15,592 5,125 4,244
Sundry creditors 16,560 95,190 26,004 107,929
Premises . . 18,669 39,887 47,248 78,119
Plant, etc. . . 59,248 76,841 98,940 115,707
Stocks . . 81,099 174,532 255,761 244,359
Debtors, etc... 55,642 124,480 142,943 245,448
To wipe out the overdraft (£4244 at the
previous balance), add £30,871 to prem-
ises, £16,767 to plant and carry an extra
£97,347 of debtors’ balances (£238,740),
the board went outside for a further
£81,925 and reduced stocks by £11,402.
The £5OOO of capital gathered was in
respect of employees’ shares, on which
there is still £12,500 to come. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£381,878) was £13,422.
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £t £> £>
1930.. 43,680 8 p.c. = 23,866 19,814 108,765
1931.. 37,713 8 „ „ 24,133 13,580 122,345
Inner reserves disclosed, £86,000 .. 208,345
1932.. 33,631 8 p.c. = 24,133 9,498 217,843
1933.. 34,105 8 „ „ 24,133 9,972 227,815
1934.. 36,391 8 „ „ 24,133 12,258 240,073
Renewal reserve disappears, £28,075.. 211,998
1935.. 43,685 10 p.c. = 39,600 4,085 216,083
Investment reserve disappears, £lO,OOO. . 206,083
1936.. 68,079 8 p.c. = 47,362 20,717 226,800
Superannuation fund, £2500 .. .. 224,300
To inner reserves, £19,469 .. .. 204,831
Share premiums, £10,375 .. .. 215,206
1937.. 100,585 9 p.c. = 60,616 39,969 255,175
Superannuation fund, £3OOO .. .. 252,175
To inner reserves, £30,535 .. .. 221,640
Share premiums, £61,250 ■ • ... 282,890
Written off investments, £61,250 . . 221,640
1938.. 111,373 10 p.c. = 74,000 37,373 259,013
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. .. 257,013
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 247,013
Share premiums, £12,250 .. . . 259,263
Written off investments, £12,250 .. 247,013
1939.. 115,281 10'p.c. = 76,250 39,031 286,044
Superannuation fund, £2OOO .. .. 284,044
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 274,044
Outstanding feature in the history of
this 25-year-old island-trading, shipping
and airways, etc., co. has been the rapid
expansion of the business, by absorption
and otherwise, over the last half-dozen
years. Of the £850,000 of issued capi-
tal, £548,233 ( = 64.5 p.c.) has been put
out since 1933. It brought with it-£83,875
of share premiums, these mainly in con-
nection with the purchase of other busi-
nesses. The last 110,000 new pound
shares were issued during the 12 months
to the close of last accounts 10,000
carried £12,250 of premium money, and
shareholders took the balance, on which
ss. each had been paid at June 30, at
par.
The new capital, share premiums
and a lot more besides have gone into
the co.’s London-Pacific Island shipping
service—now operated by a subsidiary,
W. R. Carpenter Oversea Shipping, Ltd.
—into extension of the co.’s aerial fleet,
including the Government - subsidised
Sydney-New Guinea service, expansion
of its own plantation business, purchase
of shares in On Chong and Co., Gilbert
Islands, and acquisition of the assets of
Cocoanut Plantations, Ltd., including a
desiccated coconut factory. Also, the
100,000 £1 pref. shares in W. R. Car-
penter (Solomon Islands), Ltd., were
bought, and so were the 49,440 £1 ords.
in Brown and Joske, Fiji, in which the
public holds 20,000 £1 7 p.c. prefs. Then,
to make insurance a family matter,
Southern Pacific Insurance was formed,
and has paid 6 p.c. for each of the last
three terms ; and a controlling interest
was acquired in Bulolo Hotel, Ltd., and
Wau Hotel, Ltd., on the New Guinea
goldfields.
For the investor it all raises the ques-
tion whether the expansion has been too
rapid. There is nothing in the published
figures to suggest that the co. has over-
reached itself. The building has been
on carefully-prepared foundations, and
shareholders have the comforting assur-
ance of the board, which has followed a
safety-first policy so far as trading and
finance are concerned, that “the co. is
engaged in so many different branches
of activity that the management can
look with a certain degree of calmness
upon any vicissitudes in the market.”
During the last term a new vessel, the
Suva, took up the running in the Lon-
don-Pacific Island service, and another
subsidiary, W. R. Carpenter and Co.
(London), Ltd., was formed to assist in
handling the business of the group at
that end. After setting aside £18,513,
or more than double the previous year’s
allowance (£8767), for depreciation, de-
clared net earnings (up £3908) were 15T
p.c. on average capital as against 15,
14.9, 11.5, 11.4, 12 and 11.2 p.c. back
to 1933. Better might have been ex-
pected, considering the amount of capi-
tal that was not earning anything dur-
ing the previous term. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c., and, if the past can be
accepted as a guide to the future in this
connection, it is doubtful whether much
better need be looked for —for a while,
at any rate. Also, £2OOO was sent to the
staff fund and £lO,OOO to contingencies
reserve, which isn’t visible in the pub-
lished accounts. Last year’s declared profit
takes no account of £3505 struck off
from inner reserves to cover losses from
volcanic eruption, etc. Also, the £12,250
of share premiums was whisked away to
inner reserves, being written off the book
value of investments.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1931. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £301,667 £673,500 £740,000 £775,000
Liabilities . . 7,333 104,287 139,291 152,278
Shipping property 16,075 }„ „ 7fil 10 7
Freeholds, plant, etc. 750 ) 7 ’ 701 ,J 73 ’ 61U 387,350
Investments, etc. 118,114 393,100 497,264 527.680
Stocks .. 1,238 101,612 125.941 104,434
Debtors, etc... 261,774 168,955 169,487 208,926
Cash, etc. .. 45,460 55,210 9,102 23,666
Last term £35,000 of fresh capital was


Mining Notices.
THREE MINING LEASES at Bamford, North
Queensland, and 21 acres, including the famous
Haymaker. This mine is now producing
wolfram, bismuth and molybdenite. Fully
equipped, winder drills, blacksmith shop, ore-
dressing plant. Better than any gold proposi-
tion. Sacrifice £l5OO or offer.—FßED
WINTERS, Petford, North Queensland.
Triton Gold Mines, No Liability.
Registered Office:
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
NOTICE is hereby given that a Dividend (the
Bth) of Sixpence (6d.) per share has been de-
clared on all the issued shares in the capital
of the Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the
Registered Office of the Company on Monday,
the 25th day of September, 1939.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Monday, the 4th day of Septem-
ber, 1939, and reopen at 9 a.m. on Wednesday,
the 6th day of September, 1939, and share-
holders registered on Tuesday, the sth day of
September, 1939, will be entitled to receive
tire dividend.
By Order of the Board,
L. EDWARDS, Manager.
August 12, 1939.
Western Gold Mines, No Liability.
THE Manager of WESTERN GOLD MINES
NO LIABILITY advises that a dividend (the
4th) of One Shilling (1/-) per share has been
declared on all the shares in the capital of the
Company.
The dividend is due and payable at the Regis-
tered Office of the Company on Tuesday, the
26th day of September, 1939.
Transfer Books and Share Registers will close
at 5 p.m. on Thursday, the 14th day of Sep-
tember, 1939, and reopen at 9 a.m. on Saturday,
the 16th day of September, 1939, and share-
holders registered on Friday, the 15th day of
September, 1939, will be entitled to receive
the dividend.
L. EDWARDS, Manager.
Melbourne, August 15, 1939.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: JU1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yeloab” Melbourne.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O'CONNELL si (EEf
SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: .Tames Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The requirements of Section 34 of the Victorian Companies Act 1938 have not been fully complied with
in this advertisement. A Copy of the Full Prospectus has been lodged with the Registrar-General.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
BROOKLANDS FUILCREAM MILK PRODUCTS
(AUSTRALIA) LTD.
Registered Under the Victorian Companies Act 1928.
Registered Office,
Chancery House
(Ground Floor),
440 Little Collins St,
Melbourne.
Telephone
MU4850
Factory and Warehouse
(Adjoining Kailway Station Yards),
Dandenong.
Nominal Capital: £50,000, Divided into 43,000 Ordinary Shares and 7000 Cumulative 7 per cent.
Preference Shares of £ 1 each .. .. '
15,000 Shares have already been allotted, and a further
16,000 Shares are now offered for subscription, payable 5/ per Share on application, and
5/- per Share on allotment, and balance in calls of 2/0 per share at intervals of
three months.
20,000 Ordinary Shares are held in reserve for future issue.
60,000
60,000
OBJECTS
(1) To employ the whole of the proceeds af this issue of 15,000 Shares to the purchase of new
machinery and Milk-drying Plant (exclusive rights for Australia have been purchased and paid for by this
Company), less amount required for Working Capital and Brokerage.
(2) To Manufacture at Pandenong and elsewhere in Australia FULLCREAM MILK POWDER. which,
when added to water in the same proportion as cows’ standard quality milk, gives to the consumer a pure
Australian Whole Milk equal to best Standard Quality Whole Milk now supplied daily to consumers of
fresh milk in Australia.
(3) To establish in the East, particularly at Singapore, Colombo and Battavia, selling organisations
for the purpose of marketing Pure Australian Milk in powder form. For the first time millions of people
in tire East will be provided with a permanent supply of pure fullcream milk, always fresh and at hand
at any hour of the day or night.
(4) To instal at the Dandenong Factory a Refrigerating Plant capable of recharging Icebound Milk-
cans (the exclusive right to make, use, arid vend these Icebound Cans has been purqhased and paid for by
this Company). These cans are new equipment and provide for the first time an effective means on
the farm to cool, and keep cool, fresh milk from the time it is drawn from the cow’s udder to the time
it is received at the factory. Only milk of the highest grade can be used for the successful manufacture
of FULLCREAM MILK POWDER, hence the evolution of Icebound Milkeans.
(5) To establish subsidiary Companies in other States, in which case this Company will be the
Parent Company.
(6) To inaugurate an Industrial Research Laboratory at Dandenong with the object of developing the
Company’s exclusive processes, and generally to assist producers to overcome existing difficulties in supplying
the factory with highest grade milk.
WHAT HAS BEEN DONE
The Company has purchased the improved property at Dandenong, comprising 3:1 acres of land, fenced
and drained. A very fine factory is erected on the property. It was designed to meet all the conditions
of an up-to-date Milk Products establishment. Included in the purchase are two 110-h.p. Boilers, also
other installations and equipment. Water is laid on, also electric light and power. The Company has
also purchased and has paid for the exclusive rights and licence for Australia to manufacture:—
(a) Fullcream Milk Powder.
(b) To make, use and vend Icebound Milkeans.
(e) A new process and equipment for storage and transport of Fresh Milk from Producer to Consumer.
(d) Other processes in course of development.
DESCRIPTION
Fullcream Milk Powder is a new product. It is destined to become the normal Milk Supply of
millions in the East, in the world of shipping, in outback areas, and will also prove a boon to many city
dwellers. Fullcream Milk. Powder Is pure fullcream milk with only the water content extracted or
evaporated. To make Fullcream Milk Powder into liquid milk, all that is necessary is to add water m
the same proportion as contained in cows’ milk. Cows* milk of the best contains about S 5 pci
cent, water. Could anything be more simple, satisfying, and safe? It is the surest way of enabling-
householders to have on hand a constant supply of pure fresh milk.
SOURCES OF REVENUE
It will be readily seen that there are many ways of exploiting the Company’s process. Revenue will
be dt , l a , ) ve^ a and sale of FULLCREAM MILK POWDER, Skim Milk Powder, “Bonolac” (Infants’
Food), Malted Milk, and Reduced Cream.
(b) Export of Chilled Butter to the East.
(c) Manufacture and sale of exclusive equipment to Subsidiary Companies.
(d) Dividends and revenue from Subsidiary Companies. „ , ri
(e) Development of a new process for Storage and Transport of Milk from Producer to Consumer.
ALLOTMENT
Allotment will be made as Share Applications are received. Application Money (if any) reoeived
in excess of the number of shares to be allotted will be returned in full.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES
Amilications for Shares must be made on the Application Form printed in the Company’s Prospectus
copies of which may be obtained at the Company’s office, or fill in and post the aouprn subscribed
hereunder, when a prospectus will be sent by return mail.
2159
The Secretary,
Brooklands Fulleream Milk Products (Aust.), Ltd.,
Chancery House (Ground Floor),
440 Little Collins Street, Melbourne:
Please forward without obligation Copy of your Company s 1 rospectus.
NAME
(Mrs., Miss or Mr.)
FULL ADDRESS .
The following information is supplied as required by the provisions of the Victorian Companies Act
1938 The Company has already gone to allotment. The whole of the proceeds received from the presen -
issue of shares, Li working «stfl £7OOO, and brokerage £lOOO, will be applied to the•purame of new
plant (Milk Drying Plant) and machinery. The names, descriptions and addresses of the Directois are
as follows: T. M. Pomeroy, Director, Bowen and Pomeroy Pty Ltd.,, St. Leonard'* I *»*J»** JJ"’
John Guymer, Master Grocer and Group Buyer for the Grocers Association of y'ctona.OowperS
l’ootscray ; L. M. Sticklan, Investor, Glyndon Road, Camberwell; J. D. and B^me^
Manager, 140 Queen Street, Melbourne; Desmond Fogarty, F.1.1.A., Accountant, 440 Little Collins Street,
M elbou me.
Bankers: The Union Bank of Australia, Ltd., Collins Street, Melbourne.
Auditor: D. R. Nicholls, F.1.C.A., A.A.1.5., L.C.A., Chancery House, 485 Bourke Street, Melb.urne,
Solicitor: E. Hamilton Serle, 0.8. E., 379 Collins Street, Melbourne. Mo?h™irrw»
Consulting Dairy Technologist: T. S. Bellair. B. Agr. Sc.. 52 Collins Street, Melbourne
PATENT ATTORNETt'L:
Messrs. Phillips, Ormonde, Le Plastrier, and Kelson, Collins Street, Melbourne.
gathered, £12,987 was added to liabili-
ties and stocks were reduced by £21,507.
The money that thus became available,
together with surplus earnings, was used
to add £13,480 to shipping property,
plant, etc., £30,422 to investments,
£39,439 to debtors’ balances, etc., and
£14,564 to cash, etc. Excluding invest-
ments (they are mainly shares in sub-
sidiaries), the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£184,748)
was £19,509.
Over the last 12 months the market
for the f.-p. pound ords. has fluctuated
between 40s. and 435. Last week-end
the figure was 425., at which the return
is 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. The
cover is visibly 275. per pound of paid
capital.
Producers and General Finance
, Dividends a Towards
Pref. Re-
June, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
Goodwill, etc., £111,235 111.23 a
Establishment exes., etc., £14,696 . • 125,5)31
1937.. 63,446 7853 14 p.c. = 47,133 8460 117,471
•Unexplained addition, £l2B .. •• 117,343
Loss.
1938.. 67.881 4375 s Nil 189,599
Assets adjustment, etc., £211,201 .. 400,800
Dec.,
1938 s . 5,931 Nil Nil 406,731
* Half-year.
The sad but revealing history of this
business and the distressing state of the
co.’s affairs at June 30, 1938, were ex-
amined by the “Wild Cat” in B.
16/11 /’3S. At the annual meeting a
few days later (Nov. 22), a new board
was appointed to further examine the
position, report the result, and do what
it could in* the way of salvage and res-
toration. The report (dated 4/8/’39)
shows the position at the end of 1938
to be worse than that disclosed six
months earlier. Nearly five-sixths of the
ord. capital has gone down the
sink or otherwise disappeared, the
police are on the hunt for the co.’s
former managing director, J. Woolcott-
Forbes, and the co.’s standing and credit
were badly shaken by disclosures follow-
ing publication of the June, 1938,
accounts and subsequent happenings.
The new board, however, appears to
be going the right way about things.
Since it took control the policy has been
to reduce outgoings and conserve such
of the assets as remained. Average
monthly expenditure was reduced
from £6719 for the last half of 1938 to
£4141 for the second quarter of 1939,
thanks largely to eradication of extrava-
gant and inefficient business methods.
Also, prompt action was taken to
extricate the co. from the precarious
position into which it had been driven
through overtrading this latter, to-
gether with other things, contributed
to the financial embarrassment of share-
holders.
A feature not previously disclosed is
“special advances and sundry debtors,
£65,355.” This mostly represents ad-
vances by the co. to J. Woolcott-Forbes
and accounts guaranteed by him. All
but the odd £355.is classed as doubt-
ful debts,” and has been deducted from
the book value of the asset in the sheet.
Another disclosure is that holders of
61,425 contributing shares, on which calls
in arrears amount to £25,696, have been
found to be either nominees of J.
Woolcott-Forbes or to be fictitious, the
chairman says. These shares are liable
to forfeiture, and the amount paid
thereon will thus be partial com-
pensation for the loss on special ad-
vances. The co. expects to suffer no
monetary loss on account of the legal
action now being taken by the Crown
in connection with some of the co.’s
scrip.
Although Bear and Co., the furniture
subsidiary, had a “satisfactory” turnover
when the present board took control,
it had scarcely a financial feather of its
own that one could see to fly with;
disclosures already referred to affected
its standing in the eyes of those with
credit to sell, and the parent had to come
to its assistance. But to support Bear s
trade requirements adequately would
deplete the parent’s own financial re-
sources. Since the profit-earning pros-
pects of the furniture co. —it made a
loss of £3392 for the last half of 1938,
and a further loss is expected for the
first half of 1939 aren’t considered
good enough, efforts are being made to
sell the business. Its position at Dec.
31 was as follows:
• Bear and Co.
Paid capital .. .. • • •• ..£105,167
Reserves .. • • • ■ • • • • ',162
Outside liabilities:
Overdraft .. •• •• £ls.>,oBj
Deposits, etc. . . • • 47,584
P. and G. Finance.. 16,400
79,069
•Assets *
Equipment, fittings, etc. .. • • • • Jj*,93B
Stock 5 3 ,725
Debtors’ balances, etc. .. .. ••
Cash .. .. • .. .. . . 817
Goodwill ( £80.158) and other intangibles 101,647
Net tangibles (£10,682) are practically
wiped out by the anticipated loss
(£10,000) on advances from the parent.
Of the £105,167 of share capital,
£90,158 represents bonus scrip, scat-
tered after writing up goodwill and
leasehold and before sale of 99,977
£1 shares at par to P. and G. Finance,
which has now written down its
holding to £l. The board attaches
no value to the pup’s lease, and the
£15,313 at which it appeared has been
written off. To remove possible obstacles
to the sale of the business, the parent
intends to give priority to. all other
creditors. Failing sale, the holding co.
proposes to guarantee some or all of
Bear's trade debts, and/or appoint a
receiver, according to how the wind
blows.
The other offshoot, Colonial Finance,
whose 20,000 £1 shares are all owned
by P. and G. Finance, which paid
£21,993 for them, was found to be in
“a chaotic state,” and is being wound
up. Its position at Dec. 31 was as fol-
lows :
Colonial Finance.
Paid capital .. .. •• •• ..£20,000
Outside liabilities:
Sundry creditors, etc. .. £231
P. and G. Finance .. . . 45,554
45,785
Assets;
Equipment "J®
Advances .. .. • ■ • • • • 31,414
Cash .. .. .. • • • • • • 96
Intangibles . . - • • • • • •« 33,760
Since the co.’s debts exceeded the book
value of its tangible assets by £13,759,
and intangibles totted up to £33,760, the
parent has written off all but £1 of the
capital as well as £13,646 of the £45,554
coming to it as a trade creditor.
The parent's deficit of £189,599 on
shareholders’ account at June 30, 1938,
was made up in this way:
Prelim, exes, and establishment account .. £14.696
Goodwill .. .. .. 93,735
Contract rights Bear and Co., unexpired.. 16,000
Profit and loss debit .. . • • • • • 65,168
■ Total deficit, 30/6/’3S £189,599
The £217,132 added to the deficit at the
end of December, 1938, was made up
of: —
Written-off account:
Divs. not received .. .. .. •• £3,627
Doubtful debts, extra provision .. .. 72,807
Bear and Co.:
Shareholding .. .. ..£84,450
Advances .. .. • • 10,000
94,450
Colonial Finance .shares .. .. •• 21,992
Equipment, .. ..
Contingencies .. .. • • • • “V
Loss six' months to 31/12/’3S .. ■ . 6,931
Deficit at 30/6/’3B .. .. .. : • IS 9 - 599
Total deficit 31/12/’BB £406,731
The effect of all this upon the parent’s
balance-sheet figures is seen in the next
table:
, .Tune “a Dec.,
Paid capital— 1937. 1938. 1938.
Prof V .. .. £124,909 £125.000 £125.000
Ord.’ *.. .. 437.523 479.736 479,939
Overdraft .. •• 68,891 57,285 62,594
reserve^ tor . 3 . } 29 ’ 807 {'o.OSO 16*J«
Contingency reserve .. 2 ' so °
Sundry advances •• 376,555 322,990 265,674
Shares and advances,
subsidiaries .. •• 171,881 160,446 38,310
Equipment .. •• 13,774 13.838 6,000
Cash, etc. .. •• 647 8.428 1.019
Leaving the tax reserve and provision
for contingencies out of the reckoning,
net tangibles at Dec. 31 had a book
value of £216,552. After deducting the
pref. capital, the balance (£91,552) was
equal to 3s. lOd. per pound of paid-up
ord. capital.
Small profits are reported to have been
made for May and June, and, the chair-
man says, the co. is now in a position
to discharge all its commitments on due
date. Further, the board feels confident
that “reasonable profits can be earned
on shareholders’ equity in the business.”
The co.’s field, however, is a crowded
one, and competition for first-class risks
therefore very keen.
The market speculates in the ords. at
2s. 3d. and in the prefs. at 10s.
Considerable activity in mining de-
velopment is in evidence at Lolworth
(N.Q.), one of Queensland’s newest fields,
on which the Midas and Mons Megs
have held pride of place over the last few
years. The Brilliant Brumby is in the
testing stage, the main shaft being down
62ft. No. 4 has revealed Ift. of over loz.
stone at 40ft., and the last crushing of
76 tons produced 102 oz. smelted gold.
The Mt. Stewart Surprise shows promise
at the 74ft. level, with a good supply of
backs in sight. The Midas is in a pipe
of heavy mineral ore, which has to be
treated at Chillagoe Smelters, while the
Mons Meg is developing a big body.
Its last crushing of 252 tons aver-
aged over 7dwt., which was, however,
well below earlier values. Altogether the
extensive belt of mineralisation at Lol-
worth appears to indicate a useful field in
the offing.
# * * *
Tinmining is very active in North
Queensland, and discovery of a new area
at Mt. Helen, eight miles south of
Ingham, has created much interest. It is
still in the embryonic prospecting stage,
but one of the early birds located a
chlorite lode, Bft. wide, from which a
three-ton trial crushing gave a 20 p.c.
return of tin oxide. Like most chloritic
lodes, the concentrate is on the dirty side
—magnetite is the trouble—but the 20 p.c.


Are You About to Travel?
IF you are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
absence, you cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited,
to act as Attorney or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details of your affairs. It can arrange to make regular
payments to you in any part of the world. You are invited to make an appointment
with a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge. You might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS;
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, 11. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
SCSI
<5%
MODERNISES A BEDROOM
r/ss**'.
k '
; fr
’rt,
r)
i
It was a bedroom of the dear dead days;
out-moded; over-"decorated"; fussily ceil-
inged, cracked; as to walls. Pasee.
’.*■**. ■
r-> T -
-- v
7
if
r*.
r
"There’s only one answer," said Builder
Brown, gazing on ancient plaster, cracks,
holes and shabbiness. "Cane-ite right away!"
"The more limited your budget, the
'more you'll appreciate the infinite
possibilities of modernising with
Cane-ite. I can quote you an attrac-
tive price for re-vamping a room
or a home because Cane-ite itself
is economical and because a Cane-
ite job can be done quickly as
well as faultlessly. By modernising
with Cane-ite you get rooms which
are PEACEFUL as well as comfort-
able. Cane-ite deadens sound just
as effectively as it neutralises ex-
tremes in temperature . . and it
lends itself to every up-to-date de-
corative scheme under the sun."
BUILDER BROWN
Transformation! In came the handy-
sized, easily-worked, white-ant-proofed
Cane-ite sheets. Insulation and decora-
tion began in one inexpensive operation.
Cane-ite walls and ceiling . . the walls
colour-washed in delightful graded blue
. . the ceiling left in attractive natural
Cane-ite. A new room for an old!
R
■n
1
mmummssk
Your builder can achieve
further miracles of moderni-
sation with MASONITE, "The
Wonder Board of 1000 Uses."
Ask him about Masonite
Presdwood, Tempered Presd-
wood and Masonite Temprtile
. . grainless, steel-strong, non-
warping and ECONOMICAL.
THE CANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY
I THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY ■
I LIMITED (Building Materials Division)*
I Please send me sample and literature on I
| □ MASONITE □ CANE-ITE
I NAME. I
| ADDRESS _ ™ ■
I * Mail to your nearest branch—Sydney, Melbourne, |
I Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. 8-23-8 CA-3-9 I
L.............................J
PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & CQLI.ISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
Wasted heat costs you money! Have all boilers
and steam pipes “lagged” by William Adams and
Company, Limited, 175 Clarence Street. Sydney.
Quotations given for materials or finished work.
Write for your free copy of our latest General
Catalogue.— Advt.
FROM FACTORY«=»
qran
Freslv • Fra
TOBACCO
.AT MEW low prices/
Smokers !
Enjoy the World's Best
Empire-grown Tobaccos
These beautiful smoking blends give that extra
satisfaction and coolness which makes all the
difference. Made from the finest Empire-grown
leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Postage Free in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other States.
COMBINED GROW ERS‘
12 COMMERCIAL RD„ VALLEY, BRISBANE.
grade leaves a big margin for cleaning
up and profit. The first efforts are con-
sidered to be encouraging, but a good
deal of development work will have to
be done before revealing whether it is a
mere flash in the pan.
* * * *
Mackay (N.Q.) interests are testing out
an oil shale area on Plevna Holding, just
outside the limits of Forgan Smith’s elec-
torate. Dr. Wade and Dr. Keith Ward
recently cast an eye over the property,
but advised that there were no prospects
of natural petroleum being found there.
Since their visit G. Tremble has been
drilling the shale, and reports 35ft. of
it, tests ranging from 24 to 44 gallons
of crude oil per ton. The delineation
of the area under shale will be a neces-
sary complement to the drilling tests if
anything is to be done with a distillation
project.
* * * *
Secretary for Mines J. B. Scott reckons
the Speck’s mineral production for 1938
to be worth £2,294,735 5tg.—£359,090 less
than for 1937, owing to lower metal
prices. Main details are:
t 1937 N f 1938 ,
Quantity. Value. Quantity. Value.
Gold, fine oz.. . 20,276 £143,138 22,199 £158,022
Copper, tons. . 12,420 759',332 12,729 580,238
Lead, tons . . 9,116 212,492 10,652 163,102
Tin, tons .. 1,090 260,673 1,278 244,037
Zinc, tons . . 23,481 525,824 25,366 356,452
Carbide, cement,
limes tone,
tons .. 393,311 442,247 374,809 463,882
Lead and zinc figures are for Tasmanian
ores only. At its Rosebery mines, Elec-
trolytic Zinc employed an average 265
men during the year, and a further 1051
men at its Risdon works, while names on
Lyell’s pay-roll averaged 1847. The Island
State is at present the chief producer of
tin in the Commonwealth, and increased
activity is expected as a result of exten-
sion of hydro-electric power to the north-
eastern districts.
* * * *
Though an anticipated saving in costs
failed to materialise, Hill 50 (W.A.),
assisted by a higher price for gold, shows
net earnings £2978 higher at £11,127 for
the year to May 31 after reserving £BOO
for taxes and £2946 for depreciation.
That was after capitalising £1519 of shaft-
sinking expenditure. The co. is working
the former Sirdar property at Mt. Mag-
net. Results back to the beginning of
regular crushing in Sept., 1936:
Year Treated, Gold, Value, Costs, Net
May, Tons. Oz. Ton. Ton.* Profit.
1937 f. 14,8X0 46/ 41/5 £2,209
1938.. 24,960 6119 42/7 35/2 8,149
1939.. 24,664 6127 45/8 36/1 11,127
* All-in, less taxes, f 9 months.
Most pleasing feature lately has been the
mine’s response to development. Stab-
bing of four large lenses of ore—extent
not yet fully proved—is reflected in a jump
in estimated ore reserves from 66,200 tons
to 220,000 tons —79,540 tons, assaying
5.87dwt., proved—overall grade of the lot
being put at 5.79dwt. Drilling shows
both ore and values to be living down.
At May 31 the debt had been reduced to
£2064 ; liquids then amounted to £10,141,
of which a second 6d. div. —the first was
in Jan., 1938 —absorbs £6250. Output
is being pushed up to a minimum 3000
tons monthly, and on that basis divs. of
Is. 6d. share annually appear a possi-
bility with costs at last year’s figure. The
sharemarket has taken the f.-p. 4s. shares,
which could be picked up at 3s. Bd.
earlier this year, to around 75.; the issue
(250,000) isn’t big. Crushings for the first
two months of the current year have been
worth 525. 9d. a ton.
Gold Mines of Australia’s reconstruc-
tion plan involves cancellation of
£77,284 (3.75. per share) of capital lost
and return of 3.85. per share by distri-
bution of five Victoria Dredging and
20 each of Triton and Morning Star
shares for every 100 of its own. At
present market prices the capital return
actually represents 4s. 2d. per share.
That will reduce paid capital to £52,219
in 417,750 2s. 6d. shares, and leave
G.M.A. principally with 3670 Victoria
Dredging, 6450 Triton, 16,450 Morning
Star and 19,600 Mt. Coolon shares, as
well as other liquids, mainly cash, of
£33,964, the lot being equal to 2s. 3d.
per share. At ss. 4d. G.M.A. scrip is
thus nearly Is. a share undervalued by
the market compared with its present
liquid position. As general manager,
etc., of other cos., G.M.A. has an in-
come (£3450 last year) which should
permit it to carry on its prospecting
activities. In leases held jointly with
Gold Exploration and Finance at New-
stead (Vic.) an extension of low-grade
but profitable wash has been proved,
and in conjunction with Alluvial Gold
(Aust.) the co. has taken an option over
Mt. Martin Gold’s Macquarie River
leases, near Wellington (N.S.W.).
* * * *
Wiluna’s July return shows a working
surplus of £A24,966, compared with
£A23,669 for June ; surplus earnings are
tipped to remain about this level for some
time. Developments in the northern
(Happy Jack) block are still shaping well
at depth, although the extent of ore is
not so great as in the main (southern)
workings, from which most of the gold so
far. produced has been extracted, and
which has become mostly unpayable in
the deepest levels.
* * * *
Lake View and Star, biggest producer
in the West, forges ahead. Current term
opened with a record throughput of
59,467 tons ore for July. It was worth
£A 132,186, of which £57,033 was profit,
after charging ordinary development of
£8520. On that basis revenue for the
full year would come to well over a
million and a half; it fell short of that
by £16,795 last term.
* * * *
Western Gold, N.L., whose main
source of income is its 200,000 share
holding in Triton (W.A.), will distribute
Is. a share on Sept. 26, making 4s. 9d.
to date; Triton itself will hand out 6d.
a share, its first div. since December, on
Sept. 4. Western Gold owns the Rand
leases, some i-mile north of the Triton
workings, now being developed by
the two cos. conjointly. Preliminary
means of attack consists in sinking of a
shaft and driving of levels at 125 ft. and
250 ft. in the North Rand sector to pros-
pect an intersection of 38ft. of 9.7dwt.
ore encountered in diamond-drilling.
* * * *
Little Linden, near Wiluna (W.A.),
reckons it has struck something of “major
importance” on the 240 ft. level, near No.
4 shaft, where lOdwt. stone is showing
over a width of 7ft. Ore deposits com-
prise groups of quartz lenses. On
throughput of between 700-850 tons per
four-weekly period, recoveries for many
months till April hung round the 7-7ydwt.
mark, but there has been a sharp fall
since, the last crushing yielding only
3.73dwt. Even that showed a small profit
of £233. Latterly mining and milling have
been costing around 255. 3d. a ton. The
co. has two 6d. divs. to its credit, dis-
bursed Dec. and June last respectively.
* * *
Proposed offer by Norseman (W.A.)
of 100,000 ss. shares at. 16s. is some-
thing. of a surprise. Certainly a lot of
money has gone into plant extensions
lately, with further additions planned,
but the board reported earlier in the
year that no difficulty was expected in
financing the necessary requirements and
still maintaining present regular divi-
dends, which last term increased to 80 p.c.
The offer is one for four to those on
the register on Sept 15. Up to 28s. 6d.
a few weeks back, the old shares have
come back to 255., giving rights to the
new issue a paper value of 9s. The co.
is now handling 13,000 tons ore monthly
on its own account and 2000 tons on
behalf of Norseman Developments.
Working surplus for the first nine
months of the current term has been
£108,700, as against £94,500 for the cor-
responding period last term.
* * * *
Lady Shenton, late of Menzies, has
abandoned its option over the Goldstone
at Sandstone (W.A.). Goldmining pros-
pects good enough for a co. to gamble
on are getting scarcer and scarcer in the
West. Western Mining Corp., the De
Bernales group and other London in-
terests have had, and still have, represen-
tatives roaming the fields in search of
another Yellowdine or better. But apart
from one or two shows which look
promising they haven’t had any luck.
* * * *
Nullagine, an old goldmining centre on
the distant Pilbara field (W.A.), is the
Mecca of a few small Adelaide-controlled
cos. at the moment, and others are in-
clined to trek there, too. Nullagine is
best known for its short, shallow-seated
enrichments and for its blanket deposits,
many of which are too low-grade to mine
at a profit under present conditions.
There are also some alluvial deposits, but
none good enough to tackle has yet been
found.
* * * *
Swan Bitter (W.A.) is completing pur-
chase of the Broken Bond, Mt.' Magnet
(W.A.). The vendors have received £5OOO
from crushings, and the co. will borrow
£BOOO to pay the balance. A start has
been made to prospect below present
workings with the drill.
* * * *
After telling shareholders again and
again that Federal and State" pound-for-
pound subsidies were assured on £16,893
of call money, Freney Oil Co. (W.A.)
has made the belated discovery that
such subsidies are not given on “certain
essential expenditure,” which must be
borne by the co. To meet this outlay
and take advantage of the subsidies the
co. is issuing 23,000 of its reserved shares
at par (65.). The market is still guess-
ing as to when boring will com-
mence. On May 5, the secretary
said it would be about the end of
July; on June 15 he stated that the pro-
gramme at the drill site was well up to
schedule ; on July 20 the superintendent
reported that it was difficult to estimate
when the drill would start, but he hoped
“to give a close idea shortly.” Some
think that it will be near the end of the
year before boring begins.


HAMPTON COURT
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
/
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
•Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
p
a
in
mi
ED
m
mi
031
11
II
S
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates: Single Room
with private bath
from 10/6 per
night. Suites from
£l/1/- per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARUNGHURST. SYDNEY
N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
The optimist is sure that something
will turn up even if it’s only his toes.
4* 4* 4> +
These days the only waves that are
permanent are crime-waves.
4* 4*
“Movie stars are intensely superstitious.”
—Film blurb.
They draw the line at being married
13 times.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Domestic says she is treated as one of the
family.”
So that’s the trouble!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He plays his sax. in a wardrobe.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Evidently it’s more effective than moth-
balls and insect-sprays.
*4* *4*
Every cloud has a silver lining, but
there’s nothing in an air-pocket.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Nine-years-old Darwin boy writes left-hand,
upside down, from right to left and from
the bottom to the top of a page.”
-—Melbourne “Herald.
He has the makings of a successful
doctor.
4* 4* 4* *4*
“It takes the bride a few months to settle
clown in her new environment.”
— Women’s mag.
Meanwhile the bridegroom is busy
settling up.
“Can a girl have any sentiment who uses
a typewriter instead of penning her personal
letters?” — Women’s paper.
True. When she finds the key to a
man’s heart she just pounds it.
4* * 4*
“Why do so many women like to invent
mythical romances?” — Women’s paper.
“From the bench a magistrate , sees the
seamy side of life.” — Women’s paper.
From the dock the prisoner sees he’s
in for a rough patch.
•F »F *F "F
“A new summer fashion —the fish-net beach
suit.” —“Picture Post.”
At least it’s a more humane method
than the old one of hooking a man.
“A nagging toothache made him ready for
a quarrel.”— “Sun.”
He should have had it out with the
dentist.
4* 4 1 4*
“Do glasses alter a person’s appearance?”
—Monthly mag.
It depends how many he has.
4* 4> 4» 4 1
“It’s nice to get something by post on your
birthday.”— Advt.
With authors, however, it’s a case of
many unhappy returns.
“Are you certain we're on the right track , boys?"
Many a man wishes that his old flames
would burn his love letters.
•i* '!■ 4* 4 1
“A woman should not be moody when buy-
ing a hat.” —Fashion writer.
That’s left for the husband.
4*
“Every boxer should do early-morning train-
ing.” —Ring notes.
Most of them like to get up before ten.
4* 4* + +
“The good stories of the world have been
told and retold.” — Women’s paper.
But if they’re reeled off for long
enough even the best of yarns get spun
out.
t ♦ ♦ ♦
“Pianists must practise regularly every day
if they want to "get on.” —Musical mag.
Not with the neighbors.
•4* *4* *4* *4*
“Boy swallows a shilling without ill effects.”
—News item.
There was no apparent change in him.
4* 4* 4* +
All Hotted Up.
“Only a week before she had seen him in
prison. Gwen, as he spoke words of love to
her, felt that the room was getting hot.”
— Women’s paper story.
Little wonder! When first she had
met him he had got himself into the soup.
Later, when he was in a proper stew, she
had spoken to him through a grille.
He had boiled with indignation over
his predicament, but her visit had warmed
his heart, and now there was the flame
of love in-his eyes and burning passion
in his voice. He spoke words of fire,
and it was evident he nursed the smoul-
derings of resentment for what he had
suffered.
No wonder the room was hot. And
it was liable to become hotter any
moment, for her husband, hearing that
they were together, was approaching,
seething with fury.
In fact, everything was getting so hot
that I didn’t wait for the flaming end.
Harold.
“Some women are walking paint-pots.”
— Debater.
And if you upset them they’re just as
hard to get off your hands.
•4* *4* *4* *4*
“Buy the car that’s a year ahead.”-— Advt.
Of your income?
A Slip Off the Deep.
“When a brawl started among a dozen
drunken sailors at Port Melbourne two police-
women patrolling the waterfront dragged some
of them apart and arrested three. The others
ran away.”
Loudly the yells of a dozen drunks ring ;
A.Bs., well shot, stoush and surge, clout
and cling.
Sailors, beware! Sailors, take care!
Women don’t fear ye, beware, beware !
Soon two brave hearts will be deep in
that heap,
So beware, be-ware!
Proudly the belles of the Force duck a
swing,
Sidestep a dong and get under a ding.
Sailors, beware! Sailors, take care!
P’lice gals are near ye, beware, beware!
Coppers beskirted will lug you to jug,
So beware, be-he-he-ware !
BO.
They call the old spinster an angler
Because, be it ev’ning or day,
With conceit she is fond of describing
The catches that ‘‘just got away.”
ELM.
The Way of Women.
“1 hate Bondi,” said Maria. “I simply
loathe the whole place and the people
in it.”
“You were fond of saying that there
was no place in the whole world like it;
and the people”
No further than that was I allowed to
go. On usual form, I was lucky to get
so far.
“Only a fool could talk like that,” said
Maria sharply. “We’ve been here two
years. Can’t you see that a woman gels
fired of living in the same place all that
time? Besides, it costs eightpence in tram
fares every time I go to town, and ’
So that’s why, after all the toil and
trouble of the removal, we are living at
a place where it now costs one and four-
pence for the return train fare, and we
have to shakedown to new acquaintances
and new circumstances generally. One
of the circumstances is a garden, and,
the Sunday dawning sunny and bright, I
felt the old Adam spirit getting busy. I
borrowed a spade from next door.
But Maria said it was a lovely day
and a shame to waste it by staying at
home. “Let’s go to Bondi for the day! ”
she suggested brightly.
H.M.
Defiance.
(Lines composed while in a slight state of
confusion.)
Out of my sight, you shnarling elf!
You’re far too hoshtile. Shoo (hie) !
Go. Run away and bite yourshelf.
I’m not afraid of you (hie)!
Why should I be ? With mosh sublime
Contempt / — hie —can treat you.
You’re jush a little dingbat; I’m
A BUNYIP ! Grr / I’ll eat you !
T.W.N.
Footnote.
“My wife is starting to complain because
she has to clean and polish my working-boots
each night.” — Correspondent, “D.T.”
They all agreed he was a heel,
A tight-laced sort of coot ;
He called his wife his sole-mate,
And then she got the boot.
ELM.
Big Business Analysed.
I.
Directors’ Work.
Companies, except those launched by
prospectus fanciers who wear white edges
to their vests, usually result from a pro-
cess of evolution. Jos. Smith, for in-
stance, might start out as a backyard
manufacturer of self-knocking door-
knobs. When, by being content with
225 p.c. gross profit, he gains the con-
fidence of the buying public and starts
to get on his feet, the thought strikes
his wife that the legend “Jos. Smith.
Prop.” is no longer in keeping with the
dignity of her new set of silver foxes.
So he calls himself “The Jos. Smith
Manufacturing Co.” and moves to a
higger house and factory.
Then someone points out to him that
in the event of his coming an umbilical
thud in the business, his creditors could
soak him right down to the clobber he
stands up in, and that putting his wad in
his wife’s name, his house in his son’s and
his car in his mother-in-law’s is a tedi-
ous business, so he forms “The Jos.
Smythe Hardware Co., Ltd.,” and gets
six members of his family to sign the
memorandum with him and take one
share each. He is then J. Smythe, man-
aging director.
From that eminence it is but a short
step to a merger, with J. Psmythe as gov-
erning director of Amalgamated Door-
knobs, Ltd. He has arrived at really Big
Business, and can now talk in hundred-
thousands while playing golf four after-
noons a week with other g.ds.
Governing directors can be recognised
immediately by their gloomy expressions,
due to ingrowing ambitions. This is
understandable, because ambition, which
has driven them to where they are, is
still digging the spurs in, and they simply
can’t get any higher than they are. This
puts more hobnails in their livers than all
the seven-course light lunches they par-
take of at the club each day.
Sometimes a governing director gets to
the stage of embonpoint where the only
way he can hit the golf ball the caddie
has teed up somewhere in front of his
feet is from memory. It is then that he
starts making a nuisance of himself by
wanting to have a look around the con-
cern.
Escorted around the factory by the
general manager, he will stop alongside
a workman who is busy screwing up a
nut, and will demand to be told what he
is doing. The g.m. hollers for the fore-
man to come and explain. Then the g.d.
wanders back into his sumptuous sanc-
tum satisfied with a good morning’s work.
The managing director is one rung
down the ladder of Big Business from
the g.d. He is not allowed to govern,
but he manages and directs —that is, he
manages to get only three afternoons to
play golf, and directs that the co.’s work
go on just the same whether he is having
an important conference on the seventh
green, attending a luncheon at which a
talk on a big deal is to be adroitly side-
stepped, or away on a six months’ tour
of England that coincides with the arrival
there of the Australian XI.
There is also the chairman of direc-
tors, whose job it is to preside at the
weekly meeting of the board and squash
persistently-inquiring shareholders at all
ordinary and extraordinary general meet-
ings. .
Strict rules govern his conduct thereat.
He must never rise from his swivel chair
without a paper in his hand, a grave
expression on his face and an open box
of double Corona cigars at his elbow.
Also the first word he utters, also gravely,
must be “Gentlemen.”
So far, the higher flights of Big Busi-
ness have been spared the ruthless prun-
ing and streamlining that have been ap-
plied to all other phases of it, but the
haunting fear is ever present that the
blow may fall on old tradition. One can
imagine the horror etched on the faces ol
directors as they draw noughts and
crosses on otherwise immaculate blotting-
pads if the Efficiency Expert whom
they had brought in to reorganise their
organisation were to suggest that the
chairman could save time, and therefore
money, by emulating the Railway
Department and substituting the simpler
“men” for “gentlemen.”
S.W.K.


m
and
STILL
M
P
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 68-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 166 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett ft Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
COMPANY DIRECTORS - - do you know
your DUTIES and RESPONSIBILITIES?
These are fully covered in the new
“Directors and Secretaries ’ Manual”
7/6 per copy (postage 2d.).
Compiled with special reference to the Companies Act, 1936, by
G. E. Seaton, LL.B. (Barrister-at-Law), and Alan T. Stewart, LL.B.
(Solicitor). This pocket manual is invaluable to Directors, Secretaries
and Accountants, giving essential information in condensed form, with
references to the Act where needful. Get a copy at once from the
publishers: SCOTOW'PRESS, 5 1-5 7 Goulburn Street, Sydney; or from
Dymocks, Swains, N.S.W. Bookstalls, Angus and Robertson.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Hon. Dr. F. E. Wall, M.L.C.;
Wm. White; Sydney ■ Sampson. It. A. MANZIE, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 1573G1. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Our Real Problem
Although the level of prices for things
we export at the moment is only 15 p.c.
above the average for 1931 and 1932,
worst years of the slump, and are below
the average for 1934 and 1935, manu-
facturing activity has remained at a high
level, though it shows a sign of slacken-
ing off in some directions now. Factories
have been, and will continue to be, a
great factor in our economy, tending to
balance up the shortcomings of our ex-
ternal buying power when low prices or
reduced quantities hit our export in-
come. We saw during the big slump
how, when rationing of imports, pro-
hibitive duties and exchange costs, etc.,
reduced the people’s capacity to buy
overseas goods, our own factories rushed
into the market thus made available and
supplied Australian-made products where
imported stuff had been the rule before.
This internal manufacturing activity
gave new employment, and employment
created additional demands for goods.
Between 1931-32 and 1935-36 Australian
factory output grew from £291,645,785
in value to £414,688,455. The 1935-36
year, too, benefited only partly from the
big recovery that had taken place in wool,
wheat, metal and butter prices. The
balance-wheel effect of the factories
themselves had a great deal to do with
the recovery in their figures. And by
this time again imports were coming into
the country at a great pace, though they
were largely in the shape of machinery,
etc., to make further expansion in Aus-
tralian factories possible, or in the form
of luxury or ordinary goods and raw
materials that weren’t made or produced
in Australia. That the importing was
overdone in some directions doesn’t come
into this story for the moment.
During 1936 and 1937 good prices for
wool, wheat and most other items of
Australian primary production were at a
highly remunerative figure to producers.
Factory outputs continued to expand,
and the value rose to £451,829,278 in
1936-37, to £499,200,000 in 1937-38. In
this latter term export prices were on a
decline, but our economic strength,
which was largely due to stable and
reasonable production costs, overcame
the resulting difficulties, and manufactur-
ing activity was at a record level within
the Commonwealth.
Once Australia was almost entirely
dependent on returns from its exports
for clothing, hardware and luxuries. It
bought most of its manufactured goods
overseas, and if its overseas income fell
away its buying fell away—unless it bol-
stered up its “income” by borrowing, as
was the case in the 1920’5. The expansion
of manufacturing within the Common-
wealth did a lot to remove this vulner-
ability ; the following table shows how:
Export Value of Index of
Price Factory Money
Index,* Output.t Wages.*
1932 .. 566 £291,645,000 1639
1933 .. 616 304,797,000 1584
1934 .. 653 330,134,000 1590
1935 .. 656 365,210,000 1609
1936 .. 805 414,688,000 1635
1937 .. 923 451,829,000 1704
1938 .. 699 499,200,000 1795
* Calendar year, t Year to June 30.
The index of export prices represents
a means of showing at a glance the com-
“By gosh, Mawther, I blieve it's a trap!”
parative monetary returns we have re-
ceived in various years for our principal
export products—in terms of Australian
currency. The index applies to the year
ended Dec. 31, whereas factory outputs
(in the next column) relate to the finan-
cial periods ended on June 30 in the year
stated. The two first columns, taken to-
gether, show that up to June, 1938, the
shock-absorbers provided by factories
largely smoothed out the irregularities
caused by dipping export prices. Em-
ployment in factories (and all employ-
ment) reached its highest point in March,
1938. Since then it has dropped,
but, on the average, figures for
1937-38 and 1938-39 have kept fairly
steady at about 7 p.c. above 1936-37.
The current year has opened less encour-
agingly.
The chief reason why a decline in fac-
tory activity is now evident is seen in the
third column of the foregoing table.
Money wages and all other costs have
inflated at a rapid rate since 1936. We
have lost the stability that was so helpful
during the recovery period from the
middle of 1933 to the end of 1936. It is
now taking more money to pay wages
that will buy little or no more than they
would in 1936.
The Bulletin has made a point, in its
articles on the national economy, of
stressing the importance of our factories
in maintaining a balance between em-
ployment and production. In doing so
it has aimed at dispelling the old idea of
our almost total dependence on exports
for a living. Once we were nearly wholly
dependent on our exports ; but since we
have developed from a purely primary-
producing “colony” to a semi-manufac-
turing nation a vast change has occurred
in our outlook.
But, of course, we still have vulnerable
points. We always shall have. And
though this paper has been at pains to
stress how we strengthened our economy
during the recovery period, it has been
loud in its condemnation of the inflation
in costs that threatened us following the
introduction of the Reddaway award,
bounties, etc., and the actual inflation
that has since occurred.
Perhaps it will be said that manufac-
turing is an internal activity, and that
costs inflation is an internal process, so
that manufacturing should be able to
cope with inflation. It can’t. The reason
is plain enough. Inflating costs of pro-
duction during a period in which cur-
rency is deflating or in which credit is
tight burden manufacturers for home con-
sumption as well as exporters because of
the difficulty of even maintaining sales
at present prices, let alone raising prices
to combat increased cost and taxes.
Owing to inflating costs, political ex-
travagance and excessive taxation, our
economic strength has turned flabby. The
outlook grows increasingly disturbing as
Governments fail to grapple with the real
problems confronting them. They throw
a sop here and a sop there ; they scratch
around and spend pounds looking for
another ha’p’orth of taxation ; they in-
creasingly socialise trade and industry
and load them with deadheads ; they have
long outworn their welcome as borrowers
in the Australian investment market, and
London doesn’t want them.
The main problem—that of costs and
of overcapitalised farming areas —is
shrinkingly avoided. It calls for courage
and clearheadedness in being dealt with.
Meanwhile costs continue to undermine
our credit and our employment position.
If costs were at the 1936 level many ex-
porters and manufacturers now showing
a loss could show a very reasonable
profit. That in itself points an answer
to the question of what can we do to-
wards coping with the fallen national
income.
The N.S.W. Railways have accepted
tenders for the supply of coal for the
12 months from Oct. 1. Tendered cost
for 1,499,650 tons of large and small coal
for the period will be £1,025,404, but to
that figure must be added the incidence
of an increase in coalminers’ wages. Last
year the tendered cost for 1,493,300 tons
was £958,856, so that the average cost
per ton has risen about 5\ p.c. The
highest price being paid for large coal
is 18s. 6d. for a small parcel of 2500 tons
from Aberdare Collieries, but more
representative of the higher charges is
17s. 7d. a ton for Greta coal from
J. and A. Brown’s Abermain, Cale-
donian’s Aberdare, and Hebburn’s No. 2
colliery. Western coal is the cheapest,
averaging about 12s. 6d. a ton for large,
and 775,850 tons altogether will be
drawn from the Lithgow and Wal-
lerawang areas. South Coast coal is
being bought at from 14s. to 16s. 3d.
Average tendered price for small and
large coal is 13s. Bd. a ton, so cost of
coal isn’t a legitimate reason for the
State’s railways being in a non-paying
condition.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Australasian Paper ords. were one of the
few issues to show strength in the sharemarket.
They sold at 295. on Wednesday and were later
quoted at 295. 3d. buyer, 295. 9d. seller. The
Gippsland pulp mill is due to help earnings, if
plans come up to expectations.
Electrolytic Zinc ords. were bought at the
firm price of 51s. Their highest price in 1937
was 695. 3d., their lowest in 1938 335. 3d. The
co.’s div. for 1938-39 has been maintained at
15 p.c. A final of 9 p.c. (Is. 9.6 d.) is payable
on Sept. 15. A new issue is spoken of.
Australian Consolidated Industries ords.
were up to 365. again, cum rights to the new
issue. But Broken Hill Prop, shares were dull
oh the publication of accounts.
Huddart, Parker ords. were turned over at
565. following announcement of the increased
interim div. (7 p.c., against 6 p.c.). Adelaide
Steam shares were also bought.


g
PACKS S SUITS
IN A TEW MINUTES
In a non-crushing, lightweight
Globite 5-Suiter, anyone can
pack 3-piece suits like an
expert. Available all stores.
i:
wJiJM
Wmm
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street 1 , E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd..
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
tmi
wm
m
In many things the man with money has the advantage.
But in one thing the daily shave all men can be
equal. Moreover, every man owes it to himself to use
the method which gives him the cleanest, closest shave
possible. To buy cheap blades may seem an economy
at first but it’s when you come to use your razor
for the third or fourth time that you realise that Gillette
is not only the most efficient, but the most economical
shaving system ever devised.
GILLETTE SETS 1/9 TO 45/- • BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
5 FOR 1/6 • STAINLESS GILLETTE BLADES 5 FOR 2/-
Although the British Board of Trade
last week announced that industrial
activity for the quarter ended June 30
showed an increase of 9.6 p.c. on ihe
corresponding period of 1938, thus repre-
senting the best figure since the “peak”
reached in the December quarter of 1937,
the London Stock Exchange continued
to show weak support for industrial
shares. Staleness was evident all round,
with the index lifeless near 98.5 on
Friday. New York ’Change was more
erratic, and uncertainty was the keynote.
In Australia the markets were fairly firm
during the first half of the week, but in-
terest faded noticeably on Friday, when
the tone of the markets was very sub-
dued. Some Melbourne stocks
(mentioned elsewhere) moved against the
general trend and registered gains for
the week, but support for Sydney cos.
was particularly dull. Castlemaine Per-
kins scrip in Brisbane moved up sharply
to 245. (after being near or below 225.
for months) following announcement of
improved results by Queensland Brewery
and talk of a new issue from Castlemaine.
* * * *
The merger of Austral Silk (Melb.)
with Bradford Cotton (Sydney) has gone
through, more than the requisite number
of shareholders in Austral Silk (94 p.c.
were in favor) having agreed to accept
93,167 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and 43,000
ords., all fully paid, in exchange
for their 215,000 f.-p. ords. The joining
of forces should be of great benefit to
Bradford Cotton —it gets a well-equipped
spinning mill without the delay of erect-
ing one from scratch at considerably
greater cost —and it has pleased share-
holders in Austral Silk, who have seen
their scrip almost double in price since
merger negotiations were announced.
When the merger is complete Bradford
Cotton will have an issued capital of
£358,909 in 205,742 ords., 60,000 6 p.c.
first prefs. and 93,167 second prefs. Brad-
ford ords. are near 38s. 6d. on‘’Change,
and they yield 6| p.c. on a 12| p.c. div.
basis. The co. has recently formed a sub-
sidiary to pre-shrink cotton cloths by the
sanforising process.
* * * *
In 1937-38 there were 24 p.c. more
people working in Australian factories
than in 1928-29, and 7 p.c. more than
in 1936-37. The highest peak in factory
employment was reached in March, 1938.
It seems that figures for the year which
closed on June 30, 1939, may be slightly
lower than those for the preceding term.
In May, 1939, for instance, Common-
wealth factory employment was 2.4 p.c.
lower than in May, 1938.
Average employment in retail stores
for 1937-38 was 28 p.c. up on the figure
for July, 1933, and 2 p.c. higher than
the average for 1936-37. Employment for
the year to June 30 last should hold its
own in relation to 1937-38, but a taper-
ing-off has been evident more recently.
General trade-union unemployment
throughout Australia reached its greatest
extent (30 p.c.) during the June quarter
of 1932. Continuous improvement was
then shown until the March quarter of
1938, when the index dropped to 8 p.c.,
the lowest figure since August, 1927,
when the index stood at 6.7 p.c. During
1938 unemployment increased in the
second and third quarters, dropped
slightly during the three months which
included Christmas, and rose sharply
from 8.9 p.c. to 9.8 p.c. during the first
quarter of 1939. The figure for the June
quarter was 9.7 p.c., a welcome steadying
having occurred. In March, 1929, there
were 420,304 trade-unionists registered
within the Commonwealth; in June,
1939, the figure was 478,250.
* * * *
At present there is roughly 26,000,000
bushels of last season’s wheat on hand
in the Commonwealth. About 20,000,000
bushels of it is unsold —has still to be
marketed overseas. It is a large surplus
to have on hand at this stage, with har-
vesting no great distance off in some
areas, and with the grain down to a very
low price in all markets of the world.
The following table shows how a bad
growing season and a reluctance to sell
owing to low prices affected exports of
wheat and flour last year:
1936-37. 1937-38. 1938-39.
Wheat. Bushels. Bushels. Bushels.
Victoria .. 17,147,445 21,900,298 202,601
N S Wales 18,894,441 15,343,813 13,469,065
South Aust: 15,437,701 26,102,877 12,210,979
Westralia .. 10,676,949 22,837,374 19,068,827
Queensland 2,276,689
Total .. 62,156,536 86,184,362 47,228,161
Flour. Tons. Tons. Tons.
Victoria .. 150,765 196,083 172,130
N. S. Wales 129,381 148,426 228,097
South Aust. 41,268 52,747 57,624
Westralia.. 52,961 55,589 65,119
Total .. 374,375 452,845 522,970
The increased orders for flour have some-
thing to do with the disturbance in the
Too-Near “East.”
* * * *
Mt. Kasi (Fiji) shares have been weak
at 3s. lately. The mine, though it
had 211,700 tons of milling-grade ore-
proved and partly proved at last balance
day, has reached a crucial stage in its
career. It has to prove more ore
(which the directors, on May 8, held
hopes of finding below No. 4 level) or
else again prove to be a disappointment.
The ore-body has a habit of cutting off,
or becoming unpayable by reason of,
overburden, but if the proved and prob-
able ore as at date of last report can be
mined for the same rate of profit as was
shown in 1938, shareholders should be
reasonably sure of their capital (3s. a
share, Fiji) being returned to them over
five years. That is, provided new ore
developed pays for any additional capital
outlay found to be necessary.
The production figures of Mt. Kasi
from the beginning of 1939 to Aug. 9
showed a return of 5129 fine ounces from
23,276 tons, which compares with 50500 z.
from 23,389 tons for the same period of
last year. The average price of gold so
far for 1939 is 6s. sterling an ounce
higher than for 1938. If production is
maintained and gold keeps steady, the
higher price should mean an additional
£3OOO (Fiji) for Kasi this year.
* * * *
Adelaide Steam (B. 16/8/’39) declared
its final div. last week, payable on Sept.
12. It is the same as last year —4 p.c. —
but with increased interim of 3| p.c. the
year’s total distribution is 1\ p.c., against
7 p.c. At 325. 6d., cum 9.6 d. div., the
yield to the investor is £4 14s. 6d. per
cent. The scrip is of a solid type, with
good long-term prospects, and the yield
is quite fair, everything considered.
* * * *
Queensland now holds over a million
people. Brisbane’s share is 326,000 —
something under a third. The metropoli-
tan populations in N.S.W., Victoria,
South Aus. and Westralia average about
half the total for the respective States.
Queensland and Tasmania have the
largest proportionate rural population of
all the States.
* * * *
F.R.S. Ideal Spring Co., manufactur-
ing coil springs, etc., in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, has produced a pretty balance
sheet, but profits for the 12 months to
June 30 were little more than those for
the preceding six months. The busi-
ness was handed over to a public co.
as from Jan. 1, 1938 ; in the preceding
3i years earnings of the old co. had
equalled an average of 12 p.c. p.a. on
the new co.’s capital. In the new co.’s
first 18 months (to June 30 last) net
earnings were £13,394, representing 17.8
p.c. p.a. on the capital of £50,000. For
the first six of the 18 months (when
£6024 was netted) a div. at rate of 10 p.c.
p.a. was paid; for the final 12 months
(£7370 netted) 12 p.c. has been de-
clared. Preliminary exes, of £2281 have
been written off, the staff has been handed
a bonus of £3BB, and £2225 goes to re-
serve. Goodwill, trade marks, etc., are
in at £12,802, so that, deducting re-
serves, about 4s. per £1 share is repre-
sented by intangible assets. Fixed assets
represent only £14,328 in the books, and
outsiders are owed no more than £lBO4.
Cash, Consols, etc., total £8678. At
265. 3d., cum div., the shares yield 9.6 p.c.
on a 12 p.c. basis.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WAR OF WORDS.
[Bulletini leader and Plain English comment last
week -dealt with some recent outbursts in the Great War
ot Words—-the bickering and snarling and mutual abuse
tnat is helping to poison public opinion everywhere.
Here are more examples of what, in its cumulative
eitect, represents one ot the very worst dangers to peace.
As bad a crop, or worse, could now be clipped from
much the same sources for every day in every week.
Cartoonists are also doing their bit. A few of these
extracts are given, not as part of the “war of words,”
but as comment on the increasing danger of it.]
The future of Europe is being poisoned to-day
by the propagation of false and unfounded suspicions.”
—Mr. Chamberlain.
Propaganda’ and the faith in its efficacy are
among the vilest legacies of the war.— London “Times”
leader.
It is plain that the Fiihrer is insane ; he shows all
the symptoms of a recognised form of sex mania, the
jealous fear and hate of the great raping black man—
who in his case becomes the Jew. Since in his case the
obsession endangers the lives of people about him, he
should be certified and put under restraint. — H. G.
Wells, in his new book, “The Fate of Homo Sapiens,”
quoted by London “Daily Herald.”
In general, German newspapers try to give the
impression that the British Empire is being hit from
all sides, and that the Reich conceives its functions as
being to pursue it unmercifully to the grave. —London
“Times” Berlin correspondent.
Hitler disappointed thousands of visitors to
Munich who expected him to attend to watch the
horserace for the Fiihrer’s Brown Riband
of Germany. Instead, Hitler remained at
Bayreuth to listen to operas by Richard
Wagner. It is thought that Hitler stayed
away from to-day’s race to avoid the dis-
appointment of seeing a foreign victory.
The Brown Riband went to a Frenchman
for the second year in succession. —London
“Doily Express”
The attitude of Italy towards Great
Britain as expressed in the press is charac-
terised by daily repetitions of abuse, vilifi-
cation, sneers and insults, and could hardly
be more hostile. The intensity and com-
pleteness of this press campaign are puzzling
to British people who find themselves in
Italy, either as residents or visitors. It does
not correspond to the attitude of the Italian
people themselves, either the agents of the
Government or the man in the street. They
are as polite and charming to the English-
man as ever. —London "Times.”
Supposing the 1200-mile flight [of
British bombers over France] had been made
over Germany and Italy: Starting from
East Anglia and avoiding Holland a 600-
mile radius would have taken in Stettin,
Berlin, Leipzig, Salzburg, Innsbruck and
\yf .*l n • .. rZ. . - _ • .
Milan. Supposing the flight had been made from
France east and south over the Mediterranean: Starting
from Nancy, near the Franco-German border, a 600-
mile radius would take in Prague, Vienna, Yugoslavia,
Rome, northern Sardinia. —London “Daily Express."
[These gentle “supposings” were not cabled, but an
Axis newspaper reply, pointing out how Axis ’planes
could strike, was duly served up.]
“We have listened to the boasts of England about
how conscripts rushed to the colors. Some turned
up with their wives and insisted that they be allowed
to stay with them at the cost of the Government.
The wives were housed in good hotels and treated
as prosperous tourists. Their husbands are enjoying
five meals a day and receive higher pay than they did
in civilian life.” —A Rome broadcast, as reported by
London “Daily Herald.”
To-day, for the first time for many months, Polish
papers refrain from using the violent anti-German
language one has become almost accustomed to read.
Derogatory jokes about Herr Hitler and Dr. Goebbels,
which have been for weeks a regular feature in official
papers, did not appear. —London “News-Chronicle”
[How prevalent the Polish press attacks on Germany
had been could not be better indicated than by the
fact that their cessation for one day last month was
“news” to the “News-Chronicle’s” Warsaw correspon-
dent. More recently, of course, the attacks have been
redoubled.]
The correspondent of the official German News
Agency in Haifa, in a message published with great
prominence through the Reich, alleges fresh “deeds
of glory” (in the German phrase) against British troops
in Palestine. Women, children and old people, it is
stated, were “bestially maltreated” by soldiers of the
West Yorkshire Regiment during the search of Beit
Inan, a village near Ramallah. Three women, whose
names are given, are said to have been beaten, a young
Arab had his teeth smashed, and an arm of the mayor
of the village was broken.— London “Times” Berlin
correspondent.
The “Times” recently reported that the Fiihrer
had gone to meet the Duce in secret on the frontier.
This dispatch was based on the fact that Signor
Mussolini had not been seen anywhere else. Four
days later the “Times” published a denial. —London
“Evening Standard’s” gossip-column writer.
A people [the British] which is guided by so
inept a political caste is clearly not capable of taking
charge—as it would like to do—of the whole planet,
it is not worthy of victory, and, however great the
armaments which it may produce, it will not achieve
it in a war fought with weapons. It is supremely
unjust that a people like this should continue to digest
its five fat meals a day while young and highly-
civilised nations are faced with the terrible day-to-day
problem of procuring themselves one. There must
be an end to this state of affairs, and an end there
will surely be before very long. Let no one doubt it.
From an article■ in “Regime Fascista,” Rome, re-
printed in London “Times.”
The German and Italian press have howled with
delight at the weakness which, they claim, Japan has
exposed. Great Britain stands like an idiot,” says
Dr. Goebbels, adding that if Britain should ’try to
threaten Germany it will not matter, as there is no
force behind the threat. For, according to Dr.
Goebbels s propaganda, Great Britain is not only an
idiot but a malevolent\idiot —London “Spectator”
The British Government will shortly have to de-
cide whether they are to approve the activities of their
money-grubbing, war-mongering arms industry in put-
ting through a dishonest Act in an unscrupulous
business deal which may pave the way to a new mass
murder. What care these merchants of death —who
merely seek markets for their cannons, aeroplanes,
tanks and battleships—for the blood which spatters
their shirt-fronts? Will the members of Parliament
in London ever realise the abysmal cowardice of fight-
ing with money while others shed their blood. —The
German News Agency’s comment on the British ad-
vances of up to £150,000,000 to allied countries for
trade and defence, reprinted in London “Daily Mail.”
Berlin describes as “ridiculous” the report that
Field-Marshal Goring had been shot at and wounded
in Berlin. It was pointed out that the marshal was
“Le Populaire.” Paris.
TEMPTATION.
“After all, nobody has thought of guaranteeing her integrity so far!”
not in the capital—he is touring Central German
waterways in his private yacht—and that the report
was merely “more Polish propaganda.” —London
“Daily Herald ”
The time is over when, if anyone pulled a hair
out of an Englishman’s head or even merely served
him with an inferior brand of whisky, a warship
would have been sent post-haste to the spot. To-day
either there are not enough warships—or the English
have no more hair to be pulled. —“Popolo ctltalia,”
Rome, reprinted in London “Daily Herald.”
“I would say mobilise the Fleet and the Regular
Army at once. Then send to France, if necessary, as
many of our Air Force as you would if war broke
out. Only then will Hitler realise that we really are
serious.” — Mr. L. S. Amery, M.P.
- The frantic Nazi chorus of encouragement to
Japan and sneers at Britain over the Tientsin incident
continue unabated. Berlin’s anti-British campaign
could hardly be more violent if war had already been
declared. The entire press seems to be devoted to
stressing Britain’s weakness, humiliation and impotence
in China, in Palestine, and even in London, where the
bomb outrages furnish excellent material. —London
“Daily Express” Berlin correspondent.
The Soviet people tranquilly watch the criminal
activities of the Fascist warmongers.— “ Pravda,” Mos-
cow; reprinted in London “Times.”
The Ilford A.R.P. workers are holding a bombing
exercise on Sunday. They have given the “enemy”
the name of “Mussoadolfia.” —London “Daily Mail”
In the Great War British propaganda fell to a
particularly low level of vulgarity. One need only
recall the legends of “hacked-off children’s hands,”
of “crucified Canadians,” and of the use of dead for
fat (corpse lies). The British press gives ample proof
that these methods are still current. But the British
will have noticed that there are other people as clever
as they are, and that British efforts to poison world
opinion meet to-day with a counter action incom-
parably stronger, more able, and more effective than
in the world war. —“Volkischer Beobachter,” Berlin,
reprinted in London “Times.”
“Several English newspapers, apparently indepen-
dent of one another, simultaneously reported plans for
a German putsch, concentrations of German troops
and so forth. By this means the public was brought
to a state of hysteria, a preliminary to the success of
the encirclement policy. If the putsch failed to come
off, then Hitler was said to have cold feet.” —London
“Daily Telegraph," reporting a Berlin broadcast.
“Japan would not dare to force a conflict with
the British Empire. She cannot possibly be so short-
sighted as to believe that, if Germany is rash enough
to force a war on the British Empire, France, Poland,
Turkey and our other allies, Germany would escape
overwhelming defeat in the end ; then the ‘Rising Sun’
of Japan would suffer eclipse as surely as night follows
day.” —Admiral Sir Roger Keyes, M.P.
It would not be the first time that the Bible lovers
in Downing-street acted according to the principle that
their right hand should not know what their left is
doing. They are certainly partly responsible for the
terrible insulting suggestion which has been directed
against our feeling of honor and our healthy common-
sense. Monstrous and insulting.— “Borsenzeitung,”
Berlin, commenting on reports of a proposed huge
British loan to Germany, quoted by London “Daily
Express.”
“The most discouraging feature recently has been
the hostility which the mere talk of a comprehensive
agreed settlement between Germany and Britain has
aroused in the newspapers both of Germany and
Britain. It is increasingly clear that in the present
temper of the press on both sides it is almost impos-
sible for any conversations on any subject to take
place.” —Sir Arnold Wilson, M.P., in the House of
Commons; “Times” report.
As far as he had heard, the Labor manifesto had
done a great deal of good. There was tremendous
encouragement in the fact that since Munich there
has been a great increase in sabotage in German
factories. —Manchester “Guardian,” reporting a speech
by Mr. Vernon Bartlett, M.P.
A question which is beginning to exercise the
public mind more and more is the irrespon-
sibility of a section of the press in England
in dealing with international affairs. The
Government has had a wonderful response
to the appeal for volunteers for the Terri-
torials and various Defence Services, and
has conscripted hundreds of thousands of
our youth. Have not all these, and their
parents, the right to demand that their lives
should not. be jeopardised by the sale of
false news for profit, and that the Govern-
ment should take some steps to that end? —
Guy M. Kindersley, in a letter to London
“Times' ’
“Unhappily, bad feeling between
nations is fomented daily by poisonous pro-
paganda in the press and by other means.
I cannot help feeling that if only we could
halt this war of words and if, in addition
to that, some action could be taken which
would tend to restore the confidence of the
people in the peaceful intentions of all States
in Europe, then I know of no question that
could not and should not be solved by
peaceful discussion.
“If that could be done the gains for
all of us would be incalculable. We could
look forward, I am firmly convinced, to
a period of increasing and unexampled pros-
perity in international industry and agriculture
which would result in a general improvement
of the conditions of the people. On the other hand,
if war should come, whichever side may claim the
ultimate victory, nothing is more certain than this —
that victor and vanquished alike would glean a grue-
some harvest of human suffering and misery. I do
believe that this great fundamental truth is beginning
to get down to the minds of peoples and rulers alike.
It is on that belief that I base my hope that we may
yet find a way of escape from the present nightmare
and come once again into the sunlight of peace.’’
(Loud and prolonged cheers.) — Mr. Chamberlain, in
the House of Commons; from the “Times” report.
G. Ward Price Sums Up,
[The “war of words” is alarming no one more than
journalists, who see in it a double menace —to peace,
and to the repute of their own profession. What many
journalists are feeling is fairly well expressed in this
(condensed) “World’s Press News” review of well-known
journalist G. Ward Price’s new book, Year of Reckon-
ing.]
In his latest book G. Ward Price has a good deal
to say of the influence of the press in present-day inter-
national affairs, including these statements:
“1 recognise with regret that the press of the
present day tends to intensify international strain. This
is a result of the greater pressure under which political
news is collected and printed.
“That, in turn, is mainly due to the multiplication
of highly competitive news agencies throughout
Europe, which ‘flash’ rumors of speculative reports of
any kind to London without having time to investigate
them.
“Whereas the permanent press correspondents
abroad used in pre-war days to be the main source of
information for the newspapers they represented, their
time is now largely taken up in attempting to verify
the stream of agency messages constantly pouring
into London from overseas.
“Mutual recrimination between countries on
matters of internal administration has no practical
effect except to breed international hatred. Barbarity
is widespread in modern times. Those newspapers
which constantly reproach Germany with it paid no
similar attention to the outrages committed in Republi-
can Spain and Soviet Russia.”
Ward Price is critical of certain sections of the
British Press in their attitude towards German affairs.
After recalling one phase of the German press attacks
on this country earlier this year, when the newspapers
were “content to carry out the instructions of the


Propaganda Ministry by calling the British Govern-
ment and people hypocrites, robbers and narrow-
minded, jealous intriguers in as many different ways as
possible,” he goes on: —
“To this the British press responded in some cases
with equal violence. A weekly gossip paper may not
perhaps represent the cream of British journalism, but,
for the purpose of quotation in the German press as
an example of what Fleet-street was publishing about
Germany, the following passage could be made to
serve as well as if it had been taken from a newspaper
of international standing: —
“ ‘Drunk with the heady wine of power,’ said
this publication, ‘Adolf Hitler hiccoughed his way to
the very gates of Rumania this week with swaggering
recklessness,’ and it referred to Hitler a few lines
further down as ‘the greatest liar since Ananias.’
“Whether the cause of international peace is ad-
vanced by vituperation of this kind,” comments Ward
Price, “is an open question, but it must be admitted
that the journalistic excesses of the German press have
been, to a large extent, paralleled by some of the less
responsible British organs'.”
He also criticises that development of recent years,
“the ‘knowing’ style of journalism”: —
“This is largely founded on the example of cer-
tain French political correspondents who, at certain
times and for specific purposes, are given access to
official or semi-official information reaching Paris. So
greedy is the public for ‘inside news’ and so short is
its memory that any newspaperman who is bold
enough to follow this example and write about secret
diplomatic negotiations in a style of intimate know-
ledge can count upon making a hit with the public.
“Many newspaper correspondents abroad have
too much sense of responsibility to adopt this ‘behind
the scenes’ pose in dealing with political news. But
those who assume it set a standard of apparent astute-
ness which affects the whole of a competitive profes-
sion.
“It is curious,” Ward Price comments, “to re-
member that London newspapers which, at the time
when a group of ‘Mayfair bandits’ was the main topic
of public attention, were quite unable to ascertain
whether these young men in a prison five miles from
their editorial offices had undergone a flogging sen-
tence or not are nevertheless prepared to publish
with every appearance of confidence the most jealously
guarded secrets of foreign capitals.”
“Collective Failure.”
(From a London “Sunday Times” article by
J. A. Spender .)
To tell the truth, I do not feel sick, as Sir Archi-
bald Sinclair does, when the word Munich is men-
tioned ; I feel only a slight irritation when Professor
Toynbee tells me that the “peace medal” which I
wear has bars on which are engraved “Manchuria,”
“Abyssinia,” “Spain,” “China,” “Czechoslovakia” ; I
do not see “disgrace abounding,” at all events not for
Great Britain more than for other people ; I even read
Lord Cecil’s letter to “The Times” interpreting Article
10 of the Covenant as compelling us to “respect and
preserve” everybody’s political independence and ter-
ritorial integrity with a feeling of relief that those
who have been in charge of our destinies in recent
years have not interpreted our duty in this way.
Indeed I go farther and I think it high time that
the British people spoke up for themselves, instead
of submitting to be pilloried all over the world as the
one backslider and defaulter among the democratic
Powers. So far as moral censure is implied, practi-
cally the whole of the case against them hangs on the
assumption that the obligation of the Covenant is a
separate individual obligation binding each and every
member of the League to action, even to the length
of military measures, whatever other members may
do or not do.
Undoubtedly by this test we stand condemned. But
if it were accepted it would, as Sir John Fischer Wil-
liams has pointed out, make the Covenant a death-
trap for an honest member of the League. It seems
to me that any theory of international morality which
in this way makes virtuous conduct ruinous or impos-
sible needs radical re-examination, and that in any
move towards a more stable kind of collective security
such a re-examination must be one of the preliminaries.
But in the meantime it is unnecessarily damaging
to our good name that we alone should be singled
out as moral defaulters, and that we should have to
sit in silence while other nations which have either
wholly or in large part detached themselves from the
obligations of the League Covenant upbraid us as
cowards and backsliders because we are unable to dis-
charge them single-handed. Much as we may value
good relations with the United States, it is a severe
trial to patience that we should be obliged to listen
to the scoffs of American newspapers because with
the power at our disposal we are unequal to tasks
which the American people have deliberately declined
to share. Everybody else, it seems, may without re-
proach play for safety and consider their own in-
terests paramount, but if Great Britain does it with
her much greater liabilities and obligations she is to
bear the reproaches of all.
I think we may fairly protest against these judg-
ments. Lamentable as it may be, the failure of the
collective security contemplated by the founders of
the League is a collective failure. No generally accept-
able judgment about that is possible at present, but it
may be said with great confidence that any judgment
which places the sole responsibility upon one British
Government or one British Prime Minister will be dis-
missed hereafter as a historical absurdity.
When the time comes for judgment, the question
which is likely to be asked is whether the world was
ripe for the treatment of international affairs on the
juridical basis of judgment and sentence being
passed by a group of Powers upon one or more
of their neighbors convicted as aggressors. In
fact, it is the persistence of the belief that France
and Britain are under a duty to perform this
part, though their neighbors have declined it and
have been obviously without the power to per-
form it—it is this which has hung over the whole
scene in recent years and prevented a return to
the hitherto normal method of mediation, negotia-
tion and appeasement.
Justice at Versailles.
(From a “Contemporary Review” article by Victor
Wallace Germains .)
To many people the explanation of Germany’s
frame of mind is the “injustices” of the Peace of Ver-
sailles. The German people, we are told, are mad-
dened by intolerable wrongs. Appease these wrongs
and you will get peace, fail to appease them and the
best you will get will be a war, which will mean new
wrongs and new wars in the course of time, even if
you are victorious.
My personal feeling, based upon eight years of
intimate knowledge of Germany and the Germans, is
that the alleged wrongs of the Peace of Versailles have
very little to do with present-day German intransi-
gence.
First of all, the Peace of Versailles was, under the
conditions of the times, the only peace possible. After
four and a half years of war with Germany, with
public passion whipped up by savage outrages —and
the memory of what Germany actually did in Bel-
gium and in Northern France has too easily passed
from mind —no British or French Government could
actually have shown greater generosity to Germany.
It would merely have been kicked out of office if it
had tried. Secondly, no British or French Govern-
ment could actually have waged war against Poland
or Czechoslovakia for the sake of the revision of terms
deemed onerous or unjust by Germany.
Thus, all this talk of the “injustice” or otherwise
of the Peace of Versailles is academic. Incidentally,
the Peace of Versailles was very much more generous
to Germany than any conceivable terms that would
have been offered by Germany had she been vic-
torious, and is much more generous than the terms
dictated by Hitler to Czechoslovakia at the sword’s
point. One doesn’t quite see why we should always be
running round in sackcloth and ashes, lamenting over
our alleged deficiencies at Versailles. The terms given
were less hard than Germany really deserved.
The truth of the matter seems to me that if a
Government wishes to attack its neighbors in greed,
whether of territory or of gold, it will always be able
to manufacture some pretext convincing to its own
people, if not to the world at large. Had Germany
been treated more generously at Versailles, we should
not have avoided the present crisis ; it would only
have come earlier, and perhaps upon a more intense
scale. For the really unpardonable crime perpetrated
by England and France in the last war is that they
won it, and Germany lost.
Views on the China Mess.
[Here condensed from various acknowledged sources
are further views and items of information on the war
in China and its repercussions elsewhere.]
Shy Uncle Sam
(From a “Contemporary Re\'iew” article by S. K.
• Ratcliff e.)
Britain’s position in the Far East is that of a
commercial Power, plainly subject to rapid change
and before long to serious modification. The nineteenth-
century system of treaty ports and extra-territorial
privilege is already doomed. Great Britain, in a word,
cannot be a Great Power on the Pacific. The United
States, on the contrary, is that by ineluctable destiny.
The United States has now been established
in the Philippines for 40 years. By the Act of Inde-
pendence the Filipinos should be cut off, in 1946, from
the power and the money of Uncle Sam. Can that
happen amid the developments in the Pacific that we
have witnessed in the past decade? Or, if we turn
to the American record in China, since the transition
from the earlier missions to the wonderfully varied
American enterprises in education, technical training
and public health, with the unique contribution of the
g Tea t American foundations—is it conceivable that
United States should propose or accept a policy
0 £ a bandonment? That would seem to me fantastic,
New china js , arge|y , he creation of America. And
. j s impossible to deny or to minimise the evi-
-3 . * 3 . , ...
in support of withdrawal that is to be met with
ln sections of the United States,
How is it that writers and speakers are content
to take refuge in a ritual phrase? “Pulling England’s
chestnuts out of the fire”: how singular and baffling
that an expression so trivial should haunt the pub-
heists of three continents, and come as naturally to
“Schwarze Korps,” Berlin.
GERMAN COMMENT ON J. BULL.
“If he reached for his weapons, he would lose half
the world.”
the tongue of Governor La Follette in Wisconsin or
that brilliant New York writer, Mr. Lewis Mumford,
as to that of a Hearst employee or Herr Hitler him-
self! What has the new China to do with England’s
chestnuts? The future of the Philippines, with their
incalculable potentialities, the swift expansion of the
Pacific air-routes, with the pivotal islands scattered
over the ocean, the momentous and inevitable appor-
tionment of vast spheres of activity and development
between the white races and the brown? Let us all
think again, study large maps and find other and
more adequate forms of speech for the movements
and forces which, before our own eyes, are breaking
and reshaping the world.
Face-saving Move
{“Straits Times,” Singapore, reprinted in “World
Review.”)
Japan has renewed the attempts to provoke Great
Britain, France or the United States —or all three of
them —to some drastic action whereby the face of
Japanese militarism could be saved. Throughout the
struggle, whenever things have gone wrong for Japan,
she has adopted the same tactics. It is a policy of
desperation which would be more dangerous if it were
not so transparent.
If Japan could engineer a situation in which
Great Britain, the United States and France inter-
vened actively in China, she could claim that her
present mission to “spread the new order in East
Asia” had had to be suspended owing to the action
of the Powers, and thus avoid an admission of defeat
by China. This aspect of the situation needs to be
borne in mind when we are tempted to ask how many
more insults we are to accept before administering to
Japan the corrective she so richly deserves.
Consolation Prize
{“North-China Daily News,” Shanghai, reprinted in
“World Review.”)
To the Japanese it seemed that it might be pos-
sible to drive wedges between the Americans, British
and French, and at the same time divert public atten-
tion in Japan itself from the fact that, despite two
years’ warfare, what was to have been a matter of a
few months now presents the likelihood of taking two
or even three years more.
The Japanese armies have overrun vast areas of
China, but their occupation is of the scantiest, their
authority running little further than the range of a
rifle bullet. The army has to have something to
present to Japan to justify the blood and money
which has been lavishly poured out in an attempt to
secure a military, political and economic hegemony
over a country upon which it has long had its eyes.
The Chinese have not been particularly accommodat-
ing in the matter, and the indications are that the
Japanese army would like to present the British and
French Concessions in Tientsin to their nation as an
earnest of their achievement, and a promise of bigger
things to come.
J. Bull’s Mistakes
{From London "National Review”).
At this humiliating juncture it is pertinent to
remind ourselves that the present dangerous situation
in the Far East has been brought about largely as
Heil!
From London “Daily Express”:—
Opening a case of Danish eggs in his grocer’s
shop in East-street, Farnham, near Aider-
shot, Mr. Mansey found two eggs marked
in indelible pencil: “Heil Hitler.”
Other eggs in the case were marked with a
swastika.
Mr. Mansey reported his discovery to Peter
Keevil, Ltd., of Edgware-road, London, who
supplied the eggs. They told Ladefoged and
Co., of Tooley-street, London, from whom
they obtained the eggs.
Mr. Hermansen, of Ladefoged and Co., said
the eggs were packed on their farm at Varn-
drup, near the German frontier, where a
Nazi movement is strong.
A telephone call from the Danish Legation in
London sent a Danish Government inspector
from Copenhagen to the egg-packing farm
at Varndrup.
A “Heil Hitler” egg was handed to Mr.
Gustav Rasmussen at the Danish Legation
in London last night.
Mr. Rasmussen said: “The egg will be for-
warded to the Danish Minister of Agricul-
ture, who will investigate.”


the result of the persistence with which three succes-
sive British Governments have pursued in China a
policy based on fundamental errors, unpractical ideal-
ism and doctrinaire delusions.
Amongst the mistakes which have conspicuously
misled our policy since the rise to power of Chiang
Kai-shek in 1926 is that, under his rulership, the
modern type of Western-educated Chinese official has
achieved the administrative efficiency, unity and
honesty of purpose, combined with the moral quali-
ties, requisite for carrying out a comprehensive pro-
gramme of genuine national reorganisation. Belief
in the reality of political unity in China under Chiang
Kai-shek or any other leader has always been a fal-
lacy inspired by wishful thinking, for the simple reason
that the Cantonese party has never abandoned either
its traditional attitude of hostile independence or its
inveterate instincts of political intrigue.
Moreover, as regards China as a whole, there has
never been any valid ground for the assumption that
the “problem of the rice-bowl,” as Lin Yutang calls
it, has been eliminated from its dominant position in
Chinese politics. It is this factor which has enabled
the Japanese to set up puppet Governments and to
organise anti-British movements at 50 different points
in the Yangtze valley and far inland.
Lacking direct knowledge of things Oriental, suc-
cessive British Cabinets since 1926 have allowed their
Far Eastern policy to be initiated and guided in large
measure by the Chatham House group of doctrinaires.
Persistently proclaimed by these enthusiasts, and
widely supported by a well-organised press propa-
ganda, faith in the vision of a New China, regenerate
and pledged to national unity and progressive admin-
istration, has become the corner-stone of Britain’s
China policy—a fitting substitute for the Covenant of
the League.
Uncle Sam’s Neutrality.
[As viewed by American journalist Harold Callender
in a London “Time and Tide” article from which this
extract is taken.]
Anatole France once remarked that “the law, in
its majestic impartiality, forbids rich and poor alike
to sleep under bridges, to beg in the streets or to steal
bread.” The American neutrality policy, if it adhered
to the strictly legal and traditional practices authorised
by international law, would display the same majestic
impartiality in permitting democracies and dictators
to buy arms and cotton and wheat and oil on exactly
equal terms in the American market in war-time.
This would mean, of course, that the democracies
could avail themselves of American raw materials and
technical skill to the limit of their purchasing power,
while the dictators would have no access at all to
these resources ; for the democracies alone would pos-
sess the funds, the ships and the naval power neces-
sary to obtain American supplies. It is this kind of
neutrality which the President advocates.
The present Neutrality Law is based upon the
assumption that if America sells arms to nations at
war she is sure to get into difficulties if not into war,
because her ships will be attacked without too fine
distinctions and her industry will quickly acquire a
vested interest in the victory of those nations to whom
it sells. It is to such causes that some attribute
America’s entrance into the war in 1917 —rather than
to a less directly materialistic American desire foi the
success of Britain, France, Russia and Japan et al, or
of the democratic principles which the first two (more
or less) represented ; rather than to an American de-
cision, after due reflection, that on the whole it would
be preferable to preserve the British Empire and the
British Fleet which had so long and (at any rate in
recent generations) so agreeably stood between the
United States and Europe and thus contributed to
America’s security.
Mr. Hull argues that the present law is unsound
because, while it forbids the export of arms and muni-
tions to belligerents in order to avoid implication in
a conflict, it places no restrictions upon the export of
equally essential raw materials. Yet if the submarines
of totalitaria should blow up American ships full of
wheat or oil or British ships full of American pas-
sengers, the results would be quite as unpleasant and as
hazardous for American neutrality as if the ships had
been filled with machine-guns and shells. The logical
course, on this principle, would be to place an em-
bargo upon all commerce or upon none at all.
There is an equally valid argument which Mr.
Hull, in his official capacity, can hardly advance. It
is that the first totalitarian bomb which marred Lon-
don architecture and slaughtered women and children
would shatter the most ingenious neutrality law that
Senators could devise. No safety-first legislation
would survive the first surge of anger which would
sweep over the United States the very moment that
barbarism, 1939 model with many technical improve-
ments, began its mechanical massacres.
Even isolationist Senators have been known to
admit that Americans have this odd prejudice and
would be incapable of maintaining a coolly neutral
mood. Some in Washington predict that these same
Senators would be among the first to respond to, and
to share, the feeling of the nation. Herr Hitler should
have no doubt on this point, if his translators of
foreign periodicals have done their work properly.
New Ways with Opium.
(Condensed from an article by a London “Times”
correspondent.)
The world’s present annual production of opium
is estimated at about 2300 tons, excluding the huge
quantity produced in areas over which no sort of
check can be kept. The chief of these areas are
Afghanistan and large paHs of China and Manctiu-
kuo, where the Japanese Government has made no
effort to co-operate in the work of the special com-
“Haagsche Courant,” The Hague.
THE PACT-SEEKERS IN HOLLAND.
“Madam, we guarantee”
“Bah! I don’t need that from anyone!”
mittee of the League of Nations which is attempting
to cope with the drug menace.
Only 300 tons of raw opium are required each
year for the world’s medical needs ; about the same
quantity is required to supply the present needs of
opium-smoking monopolies, and about 500 tons are
required for other non-medical consumption. The
vast quantity left over constitutes a standing invita-
tion to drug traffickers. The Near East, with its low
standard of education and its mixture of races, is
naturally a thriving market for their wares.
By the discovery of a new method of taking it,
opium is rapidly supplanting the hashish, of former
times. Until a year or two ago opium was smoked
or chewed. To-day crude opium is boiled in water,
and the resulting concoction is injected by means of
a hypodermic syringe. Thirty-six Egyptian whole-
salers sold 74,344 syringes and 414,000 needles last
year. Of these at least 49,000 syringes were sold to
the “non-professional” public, so rapid has been the
spread of the new fashion.
Palestine was formerly merely a transit country
for the drug trade between Syria and Egypt, but now
it is itself rapidly becoming a market for the drugs.
Several rich people who have brought capital from
Europe and have not seen any chance to invest it
profitably have been attracted by the huge profits and
have set themselves to create a market for “while
drugs” among the Jews.
There has always been a certain limited market
for hashish and opium among the Arabs, but the con-
sumption of white drugs by the Jews is a new develop-
ment. Cafds in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem are known
to be distributing centres, but, although the police could
easily make a number of small hauls, large quantities
are never kept on the premises and the identity of the
organisers behind these petty distributors remains
UDk M™'of all nationalities are eager to engage in the
drug traffic. Donkey-cart wheels, hollow sandwich
potatoes, B thesoleTof shoes! Tur'kth sweeps, aeon-
wheel fixed on the back of a car are among the hiding
places used by the smugglers to bring the drugs across
the frontiers.
Aeroplanes are being used in Egypt to spot the
fields of opium, with its pale mauve flowers.
Discourse on Equality.
(From a London “Sunday Express" article by Captain
Barnabe Rich.)
In Britain our great need is equality. Men here
are not born equal. They do not live equal.
I read in a newspaper that the third Earl Gran-
ville has just died. He was our Ambassador in Brus-
sels until 1933 ; but if he had not been born an earl s
son in succession to two famous diplomats he would
never have become Britain’s Ambassador in Brussels.
Not a chance. None at all. Birth, not worth, gave
him his start in life.
A peer’s son should have no start over a plough-
man’s son. But instead privilege governs the destinies
of our young men.
There is the Honorable Charles Wood, son ol
Lord Halifax. He is an amiable fellow of charming
disposition, a member of Parliament for York. He
has shown no great distinction in his political activities,
and yet has been appointed as Parliamentary Private
Secretary to a Minister. And at the age of 60 I sup-
pose we will find him succeeding to the Foreign
Secretaryship as a matter of tradition and holding
as his heritage the fate of the nation in his hands.
But the privilege of class extends in Britain
far beyond mere political advancement. It touches
almost every aspect of our national life, and
reaches into every cranny in the land.
The circle of persons invited to Buckingham
Palace to meet the King and Queen is a narrow
one. Very narrow, indeed. You can climb inside
it only if you have ancient lineage or money,
however recently acquired. If you are well enough
off to buy a Court dress for yourself costing
anything up to £4O, as well as one for the person
who takes you to Court (part of the usual price
of presentation is that the presentee has to give
the presenter a dress), you can get on the tele-
phone and hire a buggy. Then you join the long
procession,- plumed and perfumed, which rolls
up the Mall towards the Palace gates.
Of course, occasionally a man of science
without the blood of a Sackville or the money
of a Guinness, lacking the qualifications of either
breeding or brewing, is received at the Palace.
And a man like Sir Horace Wilson, although his
father was only a furniture-maker in Bourne-
mouth, and although his earned income is but
£3500 a year, gets asked to the Palace. Bureau-
cracy is always admitted.
When night falls and Piccadilly glitters with
lights, then, too, inequality can be found. The
pleasures of the night in Britain are not preserved
for the well-born. The rich come first. Places
which are for entertainment in the hours of dark-
ness, music and song and feasting, are reserved
for those men and women who are able to spend
£lO or so a head on their evening’s entertain-
ment.
In the system of men’s clubs there is no
pretence at equality. A man of the common
people has no hope at all of being elected to
membership of a good London club. Unless,
of course, he becomes so wealthy that the influen-
tial members of the club committee bow down
to him.
When an untried, unknown youngster with aris-
tocratic lineage makes application for membership
at any of the fashionable clubs he is admitted at once,
It is quite possible that before long he will be tried
and convicted of some motoring offence. Or possibly
sent to prison for manslaughter,
At the very same meeting of the club committee
a bank manager who has lived a useful and respect-
able life, a credit to the community, an example to
young men, is rejected or his name is withdrawn at
the request of his sponsors.
Inequality of the grossest kind can be found in
our legal system. The rich man can afford to pay to a
barrister a fee of perhaps £lOOO a day to appear in
court and put his case for him. He buys at this price
the best legal brains and ability. But a poor man
has to put up with a cheap and second-rate counsel to
p i ea d for him before the Judge. And every day cases
are i ost j n CoU rt which might have been won if they
had been conducted by more learned barristers,
Qn the race track privileges are extended to the
we ll-born and the rich which the lowly and the poor
can never hope to secure . During the Ascot race
meeti ial en is scl aside tor , he mighty. It
' ; ; , t inside the Royal Enclosure.
y . f B • eil i, ______
eve y* y° u aie r y py A t 1 y H
be certain of your place there. A gent eman c l
the Master of the King’s Horse has the duty of seeing
ffi at unacceptable people do not pass that way.
But, in the midst of the picture of gloom, the
canvas of British life which is blotched and marred
by privilege of wealth and birth, now shines a dazzling
ra y 0 f hope. For the first time a serious attempt is
being made to secure equality for the youth of Britain,
It . g true tbat the at tempt will not affect the situa-
lion when babies are born The baron’s son will still
fo “under
" h n^ ew *j5 tia both wilf be grabbed from their
en—nt and throwm into the army together. A
H“a, is achieved it will bring more bench, to
us than any other reform of this generati n.
Since Munich.
J. A. Spender, in London “Sunday Times”:—
It would be absurd to claim for Mr. Chamberlain
that he has never made mistakes or never missed
an opportunity; but after many debates l am still
not clear in my mind what his critics wished him to
do or what they themselves would have done on the
occasions on which he is most criticised. Munich,
for example.
At the end of a year, a war postponed is still
a war averted. If by breaking his engagements with
Mr. Chamberlain Herr Hitler has destroyed Czecho-
slovakia and annexed its munition factories, there is
an immense contra account. He has raised against
him the opinion of the greater part of the world;
he has aroused antagonisms which have given us a
new opportunity of organising resistance to him and
his methods; of bringing Poland, Rumania, Turkey,
Greece and, as now seems probable, Russia into
our “peace front."
Not less important, we have employed the year
since Munich in bringing our own preparations to
the point at which whatever hopes Herr Hitler or his
partner may have placed in the "knock-out blow”
have passed out of the picture. This British achieve-
ment has been a splendid one which entirely dis-
poses of the idea, so sedulously circulated by our
enemies, that we are a spiritless and decadent people.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Winter racing in Sydney virtually
closed at Moorefield on Saturday. In
six flat races there were 53 starters, and
punters wouldn’t care if they never saw
at least 43 again. Spring racing will be
ushered in at Warwick Farm next Satur-
day—the chronology may be a bit out,
but signs of an early spring are evident
everywhere. Defaulter, Royal Chief,
Gold Rod, High Caste, Reading, Tel
Asur, Dashing Cavalier, Te Hero and
Peerless are expected to be among the
starters, but Spear Chief will unfortu-
nately be an absentee. He is in the vet.’s
hands for some trouble of which two
different accounts have been given.
* * * *
Clever riding on McMenamin’s part
enabled Royal Prince to lead all the way
in the Carlton Mile at Moorefield. He
set a pace that suited his mount, who
knows the track thoroughly, but was an
unknown quantity at a mile. Rod-
borough, who was a 6-to-4 favorite,
turned it up approaching the home turn,
and it was left to Light Dragoon to chal-
lenge Royal Prince. He joined the Royal
Sun horse in the last half-furlong, but
Royal Prince, battling on gamely under
the whip, beat him by a head. Stalin
was a poor third and Rodborough fourth.
Royal Prince started at 12 to 1. He
has 8.5 in the Epsom. Randwick’s long
straight may find him out, but his owner,
Frauenfelder, has backed him.
Enatic, trained at Hawkesbury by
E. V. Walker, is a five-year-old gelding
by Heroic-Desdale, and races in the
colors of Mrs. C. C. Galbraith. His per-
formance in the Moorefield Handicap
started as much talk as that of Royal
Prince, for he made his opponents look
cheap. He took charge half a mile from
home, got a break at the home turn,
and won with his head on his chest.
Second, two lengths away, was the early
pacemaker Alice Springs ; Mustapha was
third.
Enatic was backed from sixes to 7 to 2.
It was his third win in succession. He
ran 10 furlongs in 2.7} —not bad for
Moorefield. Royal Prince’s mile was
traversed in 1.42 J-.
Dashing. Cavalier, F. W. Hughes and
E. A. Coghlan’s Derby candidate, had
an easy race in the first division of the
Three-year-old. Carrying 9st., he won by
a neck from The Kaiser, to whom he was
conceding a stone and a half. The back-
ing of The Kaiser enabled the Dashing
Cavalier people to get 5 to 2, a really
good price in view of his recent win at
Rosebery. Pannade, a nice son of Pan-
theon, ran a useful race and earned third
money for his owner. He will be im-
proved by the run. Perhaps Blue Baron
settled the chances of The Kaiser by rac-
ing in front with him for the first half-
mile. On the other hand, Coutts eased
up Dashing Cavalier and was repri-
manded by the chief steward on that ac-
count. If he starts in the Hobartville
Stakes at Warwick Farm Dashing
Cavalier will be no mean opponent for
High Caste and Reading.
Ridden out of the barrier by Darby
Munro and never allowed to loaf, Sir
Hugh (9 to 2) won the second division,
but hadn’t much to beat. No doubt Edi-
fice and Innisfail, the placegetters, will
improve with experience. Innisfail, a
son of Chatham, took the turns badly,
and Edifice also ran like a green ’un.
Pantler (Pantheon-Lile Queen) was
ridden very confidently in the Kogarah
Stakes. After jumping away well this
Rosehill - trained four - year - old was
allowed to drop back to last. He began
his run on the outside of the field (of
seven) three furlongs from home, and he
won by a neck from Asnazu, the third
horse, Four All being lengths away. Solo-
gram was beaten after going six furlongs.
He was backed, but looked rather light.
Pantler is supposed to have a Metrop.
chance. He is in the race with 6.12.
The locally-trained Table Talk had the
rails position in the Flying Welter, and
Darby Munro was her jockey. Heavily
supported, she closed at 5 to 4, after 5
to 2 had been laid. The good thing came
off, but it was only by a neck that she
beat the unlucky Bestop, who met with
interference again. Moaveil was third.
She was hard-ridden all the way, and the
weight—B.7 —told on the small mare.
Carrying the colors made famous by
Poitrel, Legionilla (5 to 4) made a one-
horse race of the Brush Hurdle. His
jumping will have to be improved, but he
has a lot of pace and a bit of weight
won’t trouble him.
* * * *
Hall Mark’s brother, Pure Gold, re-
ceived solid stable support for the Caul-
field Cup in Melbourne on Friday. This
leaked out, and in the race for three-
year-olds at Moonee Valley a day later
Pure Gold opened at evens, easing to
5 to 4.
His Valley display lowered the public
estimate of Pure Gold’s calibre. Taken
to the front three furlongs from home,
'the chestnut looked a “moral” until the
Maoriland-bred colt Grandson challenged
at the straight-entrance. With half a fur-
long to go Badger grew anxious and gave
Pure Gold a cut with the whip. His
“Got ’ im!"
mount immediately dived towards the
inner rail. An accident was avoided by
Badger’s alertness in straightening Pure
Gold, who lost to Grandson by half a
neck.
It was the third occasion on which Pure
Gold had shown waywardness. He had
the Gibson Carmichael Stakes practically
won at Flemington last autumn when he
swerved and, colliding with the running
rail, parted company with O’Sullivan.
That spectacular happening was attri-
buted to the inheritance of Valais tem-
perament. Yet Pure Gold isn’t hard to
manage at the post. He faced the tapes
with the immobility of a trooper’s horse
on Saturday. In future races Pure Gold
may be ridden without a whip.
Grandson, who belongs to W. R. Kem-
ball, was backed from eights down to
fives. He was in receipt of 91b. from Pure
Gold, and this discounts the merit of
a win that cannot be considered clear-
cut. Kemball has a fondness for the
progeny of Bonrina, Grandson’s dam.
With Greenhorn he landed a Bagot Han-
dicap, while Bellevue scored twice at
Moonee Valley. Bonrina is by Boniform
from Desrina (imp.), by Desmond. Grand-
son is by Siegfried, the sire of Wotan,
winner of the Melbourne Cup of 1936,
and of Wilson, a stable companion of
Ajax. Latter was given a special gallop
at Moonee Valley on Saturday in com-
pany with Beechwood. Six furlongs occu-
pied 1.17 i, the champion being held in
restraint.
Dick O’Donnell, who prepared Balloon
King for a Victoria Derby victory in
1930. had a welcome change of luck when
Bathing Beauty (twos) accounted for
Diaphane (6 to 4, favorite) in the Glenara
Handicap. She gave Diaphane a long
start over the final half-mile of a middle-
distance journey.
Backed to favoritism at threes, Bow
Tie, a Beau Fils mare, squeezed home by
half a neck from Ajon in the first divi-
sion of the Kiata Handicap. The finish
of the second division was even closer, Con
Naru (9 to 2) defeating Frank Bullock’s
imported gelding Contact by half a head.
Denis Girl (4 to 1, favorite) led all the
way in the Argyle Welter. Her owner is
V. J. Plumb—“ Vernon Winn.” An early
rush brought Denis Girl to 5 to 2, but for
some unaccountable reason she drifted.
Her win was the easiest of the afternoon.
Glenlonan (9 to 4, favorite) followed
up his Caulfield victory by annexing the
Plenty Hurdle, but had only half a neck
to spare from Sweet Lullaby. The Mel-
rose Steeple resulted in another close
finish, Bully Hayes (eights) scoring by a
neck from the outsider, Galvano, with
Musical David a poor third. Musical
David jumped wretchedly.
W. A. Tucker, who owns and trains
Seven Fifty, didn’t nominate him for the
spring handicaps at Randwick, Caulfield
or Flemington, which is a pity. Seven
Fifty proved in the Q.T.C. National Plate
that he could run a fast mile and a
quarter, and in the Metropolitan Handi-
cap on the second day of the meeting he
showed that a mile and a half was well
within his compass. He was favorite at
7 to 4 on, and with McCarten up and
9st. to carry he made a one-horse race
of it. In a field of eight, it was 6 to 1
bar one, and Sculptor (12 to 1) pipped
Tragopan (7 to 1) for second place.
In the Highweight Handicap Mc-
Carten rode the next winner, Operatic
(2 to 1), but had to ride for all he was
worth to hold off Pagan Song (3 to 1).
A very popular win was that of The
Albatross (4 to 1), who beat another con-
sistent animal in Bahwing (2 to 1) and
Cashman in the Open Handicap. An-
other son of The Buzzard, who has a
good start on other sires for supremacy
this season, The Albatross is owned by
the outspoken Q.T.C, chairman, P. J.
O’Shea.
Raised to 9.9 in the Exhibition Handi-
cap on Saturday, and favorite at 6 to 4,
Seven Fifty failed to run into a place.
He seems to go better for McCarten than
for any other jockey, and McCarten had
engagements in Sydney. Sculptor, who,
compared with Metropolitan handicap
figures, was meeting him on 81b. better
terms, was an easy winner, old Brown
Force, who had shown no recent form,
being second, and Bahwing, tried for the
first time at a middle distance, a close
third.
Sculptor went out at the astonishing
price of 14 to 1. It is impossible to
imagine any Sydney bookmaker laying
that price about a horse that was runner-
up in a good handicap three days before
and a close second in another race fhree
weeks previously. Sculptor is owned and
trained by W. J. Shean.
Bahwing was withdrawn from the Fly-
ing Handicap, which went to Thurles
Lad, though it was only by a short head
that he beat The Albatross. That honest
horse, who has been second, second,
second, first and second in his last five
starts, was favorite at 6 to 4, Thurles
Lad being at 5 to 2. King Merlin was
third. Arabia was an also-ran. The grey
has had three races in Brisbane, and on
his track work has been backed heavily
twice. Before he left Sydney it was evi-
dent that he had lost all his relish for
the game, and obviously he hasn’t re-
gained it with change of scene and
climate.
* * * *
Scobie took Lusson over to Adelaide
for the Guineas, and had Skidmore to
ride the Melfort colt. Lusson ran a fair
race, but was no match for the S.A. filly
Dreamsome, by Merab-Happy Dream,
who defeated him by a couple of lengths,
Sligo being a so-so third.
Dreamsome, whose S.A. form is ex-
cellent, was not nominated for any of
the big Melbourne or Sydney handicaps.
Tempest, of course, was, and that good
Windbag horse showed that he was going
on all right in his preparation by carry-
ing lOst. to a comfortable success in the
Lightning Handicap, a seven-furlongs
race. Hegemonic was a starter, Triple
Chief splitting the pair. Tempest was
favorite at 6 to 4. He has 8.10 in the
Caulfield Cup and a pound less in the
Melbourne Cup.
The death of J. S.
Feehan has deprived
Victorian racing of
one of its oldest and
best - liked patrons.
Feehan won the
Grand National
Steeple in 1921 and
1922 with Mountain
God; and Middle
Watch, who beat
Ammon Ra in the
1932 V.R.C. St.
Leger and A.J.C. St.
Leger, was a Feehan
horse. Blindness
obliged J.S.F. to re-
tire from the committee of the V.R.C.,
on which he had sat for many years.' Yet
he rarely missed a metropolitan race
meeting of any importance, being led
around the birdcage and, through some
extra sense, drinking in the beauty of
thoroughbred horseflesh,
¥ * * *
Defaulter is back at Randwick, look-
ing really immense and galloping very
well, and ready to meet Ajax at any time.
Unfortunately the Ajax people don’t
seem keen on sending their horse to
Sydney, and when he was in Sydney in
the autumn he was taken out of races
in which Defaulter figured. Even if both
are in Melbourne in the spring and both
fit, it is by no means certain that there
will be an Ajax-Defaulter contest. A
series of races such as those in which
Cruciform and Wakeful and Gloaming
and Beauford engaged would be of im-
mense interest to the people of both
Dominions, and —in Australia at least —•
the sport could do with the stimulus
which would thereby be given. Owners
of a champion horse owe something to
the public which enables them to make
big money easily, and should not be con-
tent to reserve him for races that look
easy.
Ajax was nominated for the Under-
wood Stakes to be run at Williamstown
next Saturday ; El Golea is in it also, and
Pure Gold. “Backward in condition”
was mentioned in an apparently authori-
tative communication to the effect that
Ajax was an unlikely starter in Sydney,
but he was forward enough to gallop
seven furlongs in 1.31 on the steeplechase
course at Caulfield on Tuesday of last
week. On the same day Defaulter went
“four” in S(H on the course proper at
Randwick.
(Continued on next page.)
FOR WARWICK FARM.
Campbelltown Handicap: Pen-
thides; next, Caesar.
Hobartville Stakes: Dashing
Cavalier ; next, Reading.
Warwick Stakes: Gold Rod;
next, Defaulter.
Spring Handicap: Own Folk;
next, Pantler.
Glenlee Handicap: Perimond;
next, Rex.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
Underwood Stakes: Ajax; next,
El Golea.
August Handicap: Carpentier ;
next, Diaphane.
Truganina Handicap: Night-
guard ; next, Coronation Day.
Manor Welter: Panax; next.
Plymouth Hoe.


IF YOU ROLL YOUR
CIGARETTES
USE THE BEST
PAPERS \V
YOU CAN BUY\J
OWN
WAX
TIPPED
3 d and 6°
PACKET
SAVE MONEY
CHAMPIONS
Bring GREATEST
ENGINE EFFICIENCY
Throughout your car’s life,
Champions will keep the engine
up to its best power, speed
and economy ready to serve
you dependably—because
Champions provide the strong
hot sparks that ensure fuller
combustion of the fuel.
Champions save you money!
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Can.
fJXY IT'S
Tt j) TO INSTALL
/ , NEW
-?/ CHAMPIONS
3
m
s
: 11
“He TOOK that hurdle all right”
Under the Whip
Darby Munro returned to the saddle
at Ascot, Sydney, on Wednesday and rode
Beau Cheval in the Flying Welter. His
mount was not well placed at the home
turn, but Munro came with his customary
strong finish and Beau Cheval cut down
McMenamin’s mount, Royal Ensign, who
a hundred yards from the judge’s box
looked a good thing. The pair were at
the same price, 9 to 2. Martindale, an
outsider, was third.
Glad to see Munro back and in form,
the crowd cheered him, and those who
backed Beau Cheval played up at least
some of their winnings on Fox Foote,
ridden by Munro in a division of the
Ascot Handicap. But Fox Foote finished
fourth, Lithgow (6 to 1) winning from
Housemaster (7 to 1) and the favorite,
Ponto. Nord, who was second to
Rogilla in the 1933 Sydney Clip, started
in Lithgow’s race and had some support,
but left the barrier slowly and wound up
seventh in a field of 10. Heracles, another
Kelso cast-off, was last.
s** * \
“Sturt”: S.A. Jockey Club’s annual re-
port was admitted by chairman W. B.
Carr as unsatisfactory, but the practical
interest in racing announced by the new
occupants of Government House is ex-
pected to help things on. The club lost
£36 on the year, without counting depre-
ciation. Gate-money and tote receipts
were both down a little, even from last
year. As for the happy past, the Adel-
aide Cup meeting of 1926 topped that
of 1939 by £6OOO in gate-money and
£lOO,OOO in tote takings.
• •••«*
S.A. Jockey Club had an unusually
brisk election for committee, there being
two extra vacancies through the death
of H. P. McLachlan and the resignation
of Frank Whyte. From the seven can-
didates, Lapthome (of the Hunt Club)
and Stanley Murray, the retiring mem-
bers, were returned comfortably; the
vacancies went to Sidney Ayers, formerly
secretary of Clare Racing Club, and the
less-known A. K. Lawson from the south-
east.
tfs * # I?
Whatever the reason, racehorses seem
to last longer in Westralia than else-
where, and the climate and the feed or
something has a way of toughening
animals taken to other States after several
seasons in the West. Ballandallock, who
won the July Handicap at Ballarat, is a
case in point. Ballandallock ran second
in the 1933 Perth Cup to Cueesun, who
has since been racing over fences in
South Australia. It was a very close
finish, and many of the spectators thought
Ballandallock had won. Third in that
Cup was Prince Paladin, who was ridden
by Elliot, and Elliot thought he should
have won. Prince Paladin, now 15, is
in Westralia training again for country
racing. Maoriland-bred, he arrived in
1928, and has been racing off and on
ever since.
* # * #
On recent performances, Rivette is
wonderfully well handicapped in the
Caulfield Cup with 6.13; and the
Ronsard mare has the same weight in the
Melbourne Cup. In her last five starts
she hasn’t been out of a place, and she
has won thrice in succession—the
V.A.T.C. Murrumbeena Handicap, with
7.5, over the Caulfield Cup distance
(Maikai was second, with the same
weight), the Glen Orla Handicap at
Moonee Valley, with 8.9, less 51b.
for an apprentice rider, and the V.A.T.C.
Balaclava Stakes, with 9st., less 51b.
(in that, of course, she dead-heated with
Cackle). All the same, these winter
stars rarely do well in the Caulfield
Cup. Either the form is untrustworthy
or they fail to keep their condition. In
1934 Sir Simper, with 7.5, looked an
even better Caulfield Cup proposition
than Rivette does to-day, but Sir
Simper was beaten into third place by
Journal (7.13) and Farndale (7.5), who
wasn’t much of a three-year-old.
' a * * $
Canterbury Park reports a profit of
£10,527 on six meetings. If this goes on
holders of Canterbury Park debentures
will be assured of steady dividends. The
course can be reached from the city by
fivepenny tram, and railways fares are
also comparatively cheap compared with
what the department charges to take
people to and from Warwick Farm.
Shareholders in other Sydney clubs envy
Canterbury Park this advantage and also
the facility with which it has transformed
itself from proprietary into non-
proprietary. Pound shares in another
concern are quoted an the market at
two bob.
* u :* -t
Te Hero has been backed for the
Epsom, in which he has B.4—he is also
in the Metrop. with 8.2, the Caulfield
Cup with 7.13 and the Melbourne Cup
with 7.12. A four-year-old bay horse by
Heroic-Prodice, he is now trained at
Randwick by Dan Lewis, but he has done
all his racing in Maoriland. As a two-
year-old he had five races for four wins
and a second. As a three-year-old he was
not so fortunate ; though he dead-heated
for first in the Shorts at Wellington and
ran two seconds and a third, he was out
of a place on nine occasions. His best
performance was in the Trentham Stakes
at Wellington, in which, with level weights,
he was runner-up to Defaulter. The dis-
tance was a mile and the time 1.41. Syd-
ney has four-year-olds with superior
records, notably Early Bird and Mildura,
and Micawber, with Bst. in the Epsom,
looks much better handicapped.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Easy far Richards
Obviously Ron Richards knows just
how to fight Americans. Possibly he
has a good spy service ; more probably
he is a quick thinker and divines the
weak points of his American adver-
saries very soon after they shape up.
Anyway, he was swift to discover that
Ray Actis was wide open to a right
cross, and out went Actis in the first
round. Against Lesnevich Ron’s methods
were more gradual but just as effectual.
The Italian-American Angelo Puglisi
was the Australian’s latest opponent
from the other side of the water. Ron
soon found he was an easy mark for a
straight left, and with that member he
gave Puglisi plenty. With the right also,
although noticeably careful with it, he
landed where and when he liked, Pug-
lisi’s defences being poor—his only con-
siderable asset was gameness. After the
third round Richards carried him, but
in the seventh the referee intervened
in the stranger’s interests.
Puglisi says Richards would beat any
other light-heavyweight in the world;
and, considering LesnevichV deeds since
he returned to his native country, this
seems rather more than an excuse for
a bad beating.
Either Australian boxing form is im-
proving or the U.S. pugs brought out
in the last crate are a poor lot. Two
have been sent home hurriedly after
failing against Australians. In Sydney
last week one Litto, boxing in a pre-
liminary to one of those grappling
affairs, was knocked out in a couple of
rounds by Billy Fundess. It was his
third experience of the kind; all the
same, Fundess is a nice young feather-
weight.
“Bop”: Claude Varner is becoming
an Australian citizen, and when he was
outpointed by Dave Lefton at Brisbane
he says he was fighting as one. He en-
tered into a Stadium contract for 12
contests. After more than 12 months
residence he has qualified for a shot
at Mickey Miller’s title, and he will soon
be pressing for that match. He now
runs a pub in Melbourne and owns
racehorses. But Claude has had very
bad luck as regards accidents. Playing
football in Melbourne he dislocated a
shoulder. Then he tore some chest
muscles while training, and after a few
more fights a germ attacked a cut on
his face, necessitating an operation. The
chapter of accidents was interspersed
with injuries to his eye and hand. How-
ever, it would take more than a few
injuries to put Claude out of his stride.
Footbrawl
Carlton lasted one week only in the
V.F.L. “four.” On Saturday it failed
miserably against Richmond. The Tigers
were never in trouble, and few people
bothered to look at the score-board when
the massacre was over—l3.lo to 6.13. If
“Sowth” can beat St. Kilda in next Satur-
day’s final round Carlton will reach the
semi-finals, but indications are that
Melbourne, Collingwood, Richmond and
St. Kilda will be “the four.”
Apart from that Richmond-Carlton
debacle, Saturday’s matches were very
close. Carlton is praying that “Sowth”
will play as well against St. Kilda as
against Melbourne, which beat it by a
mere four points. Collingwood finished
eight points ahead of Hawthorn, and
against Fitzroy Footscray failed by a
mere three points to notch its fourth win
of the season.
St. Kilda journeyed to Geelong and
climbed back to “the four” by scoring
12.12 to 7.17.
Melbourne v. “Sowth” was really
exciting. “Sowth” actually had more
shots for goal than Melbourne, and
it was only 12.12 to 11.14 in Melbourne’s
favor at the cease-fire. Collingwood’s
marksmanship was at fault against Haw-
thorn, 7.17 to 6.15 ; and ’Wood will need
to improve in that department in the


THE BEST TIP
FOR TO-DAY
DANS L
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
What is YOUB all-in cost per mile ?
More and more, careful car buyers who take
all factors into account when budgeting car
expenses, are changing to Ford V-8. Ford
V-8 is remarkably low priced. It is a big,
good-looking comfortable car. It runs 22
to 25 miles to a gallon of petrol. It uses no
oil between periodical changes. You can
expect 15,000 to 20,000 miles to a set of
tyres. Resale value is high because of Ford
V-B’s modern appearance and precision
engineering design. Ford V-8 gives you
everything you need for dependable, comfort-
able motoring —and at less cost . On all
counts Ford V-8 is a good motor car
investment. See your local Ford Dealer.
Easy purchase terms available.
FORD CARS ARE BUILT TO GIVE GREATEST ROOMI-
NESS, COMFORT AND LUXURY V-8 PERFORMANCE-
AT LOWEST POSSIBLE ALL-IN COST PER MILE
PRICES from £335
(F. 0.8. Ford Plant,
Plus Sales Tax)
it*:
m
FORD V-8 cars
*
bTTy from your local ford dealer
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA)
Ford 8 H.P. . . , “Prefect” . . . Ford V-B’s . . . Mercury . . . Lincoln-Zenhyr . . . Lincoln V-12 F36.27V
sterner games ahead. Essendon ran up
the day’s best tally (14.17) against North
(9.7), and the two Fs had an interesting
tussle: Fitzroy 10.10, Footscray 10.8.
* * * *
North Melbourne had to play without
its captain, Forbes, on Saturday, the
V.F.L. tribunal having stood Forbes
down for six playing Saturdays for
arguing with the field umpire in that
North-Richmond match (B. 16/ 8/’39).
He also “jostled” the umpire, Morgan,
and, according to the latter, said “You
won’t get off the ground alive.” Forbes
denied the impeachment, and protested
that his word was “as good as Mor-
gan’s” ; but out he went. The player
who was charged with having deliber-
ately kicked Bentley, the Richmond cap-
tain, in the back was let off. It was ex-
plained that when marking he had an
odd habit of “bringing his legs up with
a kicking action,” and this he unfortu-
nately did when Bentley’s back was in
the way.
* * * *
South Melbourne is in financial dif-
ficulties. It has to find over £lOO a week
for players, coach and staff, and nowa-
days it has no Skinner to act the princely
patron or Monteath to come to light
with jobs. Neither among the leather-
chasers has it men like Sonny Elms,
Windley and Peter Burns of old. Gland
treatment might possibly make a differ-
ence, but “Sowth” can’t stand the racket.
Perhaps it needs a palace revolution such
as was effected in the case of St. Kilda.
* * * *
“Pom”: The English Rugby Union has
given notice to touring footballers, Aus-
tralian and others, that it will not foot
bills for breakfast in bed. When the
Britons were in Maoriland in 1930 some
of them made a welter of breakfast in
bed. One member of the team also billed
the M.L. Union with taxi fare for taking
round self and a lot of companions. And
this in a country which cherishes the
grand old tradeetions o’ Scotia!
* * * *
Though grade competition teams were
battling for places in the semi-finals the
Rugby Union game that attracted the big-
gest crowd and provided the best foot-
ball in Sydney on Saturday was Com-
bined G.P.S. v. Royal Military College.
It was hard-fought and fast all the time,
and in the second half it developed polish
and precision. The Schools’ team was
having its only game together, and for a
start the backline creaked and jolted;
the ball rarely got as far as the wings
and the centres left gaping holes in de-
fence. The lads were in front once only,
but once was enough, it being the finish
—l3-11 ; two tries to the R.M.C.’s three.
Ryan, Schools’ captain and left-winger,
notched both tries, each of them a gem.
For the first he took the ball at the end of
a passing rush and beat off four men to
score ; for the second, he went inside,
picked the ball up in the loose, broke
through a ruck, then dashed 80 yards past
winger and full-back. No better display
has been given by any flank man this
season, and the youngster is only 17 ;
but he says he is giving up football for
athletics. In the first half his cover
defence had kept out the Military College
backs.
With one more round to be played
North, Gordon and Randwick are sure
of their places in the semi-finals ; for the
fourth place, Uni., Parramatta and West
are level on points. Gordon rehabilitated
itself against Randwick ; once more the
forwards (and O’Brien’s goal-kicking) did
the job. The ’Wick three-quarters
scarcely saw the ball the first half, but
managed to even things at 9-9 late in the
second spell. A third penalty goal from
O’Brien ended it, 12-9, though ’Wick led
two to one on tries. Gordon plays the
leader, North, in the final round. North
had the easiest of Saturday’s games —
against St. George —but was behind six-
nil before it settled down to a 16-9 win.
University is expected to be in “the
four.” West led the Students 14-9, but
couldn’t hold them over the final bit —
19-14, four tries each. Parramatta gained
its points against Drummoyne, 23-17,
and East frolicked with Manly, 20-6.
In the first Sydney Rugby League
semi-final Balmain came from behind to
snatch victory from last year’s premiers,
Canterbury-Bankstown, by 13 to 9. In
the final analysis it depended on kick-
ing. Kirk, who had put the hyphenateds
in front by guiding the leather over the
bar thrice —all difficult shots —lapsed in
the easiest kick of the day; on the other
hand, Johnson, who had been failing with
the boot earlier, came to light with a
superb goal to give ’Main the lead for
the first time —a lead which it hung to
grimly until the long whistle.
The cement-hard turf of the S.C.G
caused a heavy crop of injuries, C.-B.
being the chief sufferer. Anderson, the
five-eighth, took a shoulder jolt of such
severity as to relegate him to the second
row of the “pigs,” which meant a weak-
ening reshuffle. Both sides slung the ball
about freely, with the result that the
back divisions took charge of the game.
Day, guarding ’Main’s uprights, was a
Day out. Handling surely, he ran his
backs into position and found the line
with rare judgment. Quealey, too, con-
tributed much to the victory by the
cleverness of his deceptive work and his
co-ordination with Goodwin, who shot
across twice in his best opportunist style.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: North Queensland foot-
ball is acquiring a picturesquely inter-
national character. A Soccer team
from Mt. Isa, 600-odd miles west
of Townsville, recently completed a
1400-mile round trip for a match with
their opposite numbers at Ingham, all
amongst the coastal sugar lands. Ingham
(beaten 2 to 4) was composed of nine
Italians, a Spaniard and a Chinese. No
repercussions from the Axis Powers are
anticipated.
# * * *
In the second round of the N.S.W.
Soccer League Cup close finishes marked
two of the matches. Metters and Weston
put on a thriller. With several Test men
in action, the game, hard and skilful
throughout, see-sawed until it was one-all
with only half a minute to go. Then
Simons, leader of the Geordies’ vanguard,
let fly with a “speculator” outside the
stovemen’s goalmouth, and it came off.
Granville similarly notched a 4-3 win
over Woonona-Bulli. Goodyear was
given a good run by Cessnock, but
the tyremen always had a bit in hand
to win 2-1. The other team to enter
the semi-finals was Wallsend, which beat
Adamstown 4-2.
Miscellaneous
mI , , ..
The already numerous corrugations on
the brows of American tennis heads were
etched deeper by the results m the U.S.
national doubles, in which Australia
made history by having the final to itself.
It was not so much the matter of the
failure of the leading U.S. combinations
as the manner of it.
• • • • •
The debacle started when Bromwich
and Quist conceded Mako and Tidball
only five games in straight sets. Then
the second string, Crawford and Hop-
man, vanquished another potential Cup
pair, Parker and McNeill, 6-4, 4-6, 6-3,
6-2. The coup de grace came with Brom-
wich-Quist’s crushing defeat —in 54
minutes—of the Wimbledon champions,
Riggs and Cooke, 6-1, 6-4, 6-0. The
Americans tossed high in an endeavor to
confound Bromwich, who is supposed to
be anaemic overhead, but the ambidex-
trous one bashed the pill back at their
feet with dreadful monotony.
• • • • • *
The Aussies’ all-round superiority is
strikingly reflected in the analysis: 46
placements to their opponents’ 22. Even
greater accuracy marked their match
against Tidball and Mako—ls games had
been played before Bromwich found the
net, and 10 before Quist hit the wrong
side of the lines.
“Foozler’s Offsider”: Norman von
Nida will need every bit of the self-con-
fidence which has so often stood him in
good stead in match play if he is to
justify his forthright prophecy in the
Sydney “Sunday Sun” that he will clean up
the open, which drives off at Royal Mel-
bourne to-morrow. He will have a power
of opposition, some of the toughest of
which should come from Ferrier. The
Sydneysider is in fine form with the long
irons, and is putting uncommonly well.
And if E. Naismith hits the form that he
displayed in the 36-hole professional
purse at Heidelberg, when he beat Von
Nida with six strokes to spare, he will
prove a pain in the neck to the Banana-
lander. Bolger, Cremin, Richardson,
Waterson. Williams are others who are
capable of turning out something round
290.
* * * *
Ron Oxenham has bowled his last over
in Queensland, at 49. His last years were
sad ; a motor smash had him on the brink
of the grave for months, and when he had
got over the effects a mortal sickness sent
him back to hospital. Oxenham was the
mainstay of the Queensland eleven for
many years, and the State has had no
better all-rounder. He was a plucky bat,
very useful in a pinch, and a first-class
slow-to-medium right-hand bowler, with
great command of length and spin. Had
he lived in a southern State he would
have gone to England for a certainty, and
he did play in Test matches, and played
well. But he was underrated by southern
selectors, partly, no doubt, because he was
judged on Sheffield Shield averages, which
suffered because, though he could keep
up an end for hours and puzzle the best
of them, he rarely had much support at
the other end. When past his prime he
went to India with Tarrant’s team in
1935-36, took 100 wickets, and made
Anglo-Indians and Indians, as well as
Australians, marvel that he had never
been considered good enough to be sent
to England.


-yC ~
MELBOURNE
Twicn Da i/u -2 75~ <9
* AT THI
iriV«>lLll
3VICK LUCAS, the Singing Troubadour
and World Famous Guitarist.
NEW OVERSEA VARIETY STARS.
GEORGE ROBEY,
The Prime Minister of Mirth
And His All Star Company.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Brownlee in Melbourne.
There was no need for John Brownlee
to look around for excuses at the Town
Hall, Melbourne, on Saturday. He was
on friendly terms with the audience
before he opened his mouth, and he
jumped into full appreciation by his
robust singing of his first number, “Good
Fellows, Be Merry,” from Bach’s “Peasant
Cantata.” It was a grace before meat
which showed him to be an exceptionally
good programme-builder. He followed
it with the “Where’er You Walk” of
Handel, one of those test pieces which
make most listeners cock their ears and
start making comparisons.
A panel of French songs by Duparc,
Clergue, Dupont and Ravel showed off
the ringing quality of his baritone to per-
fection, and he rounded off the first part
of his programme with the “Eri Tu” of
Verdi’s “Ballo in Maschera.” It is as a.
Mozart interpreter, however, that the
Geelong singer has been adding fresh
laurels to his fame abroad, and he earned
them here by singing the aria “Non piu
Andrai” from “Figaro” and two from
“Don Giovanni” superbly.
Having reached this exalted point most
singers would find themselves without a
shot left in their lockers. Brownlee,
however, started on a fresh career of
conquest with a collection of English
songs which ranged through all states of
feeling, from the joyousness of Peter
Warlock’s “Piggesnie” to the solemnity
of Armstrong Gibbs’s “By a Bier-side.” In
all these numbers he seemed able to
strike the right note without effort, and
throughout his programme he threw in
attractive little encore numbers with the
same effortless precision.
Brownlee seems to have a natural
dramatic talent, and the confidence this
gives him allows his audience to react to
whatever he is singing. His “Simon the
Cellarer” is a stock item at Melbourne
smoke concerts, bbt when sung by
Brownlee it seemed like a new experience.
He threw the house on its beam ends by
singing “God Save the King” at the con-
clusion —it didn’t know whether to respect
the patriotic sentiment or applaud the
vocal performance.
Accompanist Ivor Newton had a little
party on his own account which was as
successful in kind as his principal’s.
Schnabel’s Farewell.
Quite the best of the many concerts
and recitals in which Artur Schnabel has
taken part in Sydney during a long season
was the performance of pianoforte-and-
strings chamber music at the Con. Hall
on Wednesday night, which brought his
Australian season to a close. The Sydney
String Quartet (George White, Robert
Miller, William Krasnik and Cedric Ash-
ton) collaborated with the Viennese musi-
cian in the Brahms F Minor Quintet, and
the result was admirable. For once in
a way the reserved and imperturbable
Schnabel seemed to glory in the music,
and the other instrumentalists played as
they have never played before.
Mozart’s G Minor Quartet (K 478),
which ranks with the symphonies in
merit, was given the sort of performance
its elegance and suave beauty demand.
Schnabel is the ideal Mozart-player (he
can make even a simple Alberti bass
sound distinctive), and his manner, as in
the Brahms, infected his associates, so
that each voice had its say in exactly the
right accents. Dvorak’s sensuously
melodic Quintet in A (Op. 81) brought a
notable evening to a close.
The attendance, though it crowded the
Con. Hall, whose normal seating arrange-
ments were extended, was not nearly of
Town Hall dimensions, but it was quite
obviously an intensely musical audience,
and its sympathy and appreciation had
their effect upon the performers.
Linda Phillips’s Music.
The musical compositions of local
composer Linda Phillips exclusively occu-
pied the programme at an Assembly Hall
concert in Melbourne the other evening.
Executants included Sylvia Fisher,
soprano, ’cellist David Sisserman, violin-
ist Hyman Lenzer and a ladies’ choir
which used the broadcasting technique
with very pleasing effect. There was a
sort of floating tone about it which the
microphone evidently picks up easily.
Musical word-painting is a favorite device
of the composer, and it appeared with
particular impressiveness in the panel of
songs set to James Joyce’s poetry. “Arise,
My' Dove” was an exceptionally nice
number, and “The Charioteers” had flash-
ing drama. Many of the songs could be
Ralph Richardson (from “Storm Over Europe”), as perturbed as Alfred Drayton
and Robertson Hare by the latter’s missus engaged in a spot of sleepwalking in
"So This Is London,” at Sydney Mayfair.
included with benefit in any programme,
and the instrumental pieces, though they
seemed somewhat loosely knit and lack-
ing in crises, were easy to listen to. Per-
formers gave excellent assistance.
Lord Lurgan.
Lord Lurgan’s first public recital in
Sydney, at the Con. Hall one night last
week, was mostly made up of the works
of contemporary British song-writers.
The singer’s voice was pleasant and skil-
fully managed, but the general impres-
sion given was that there is a great same-
ness about modern English art songs,
and that most of them suffer from too
much preciousness and too little genuine
inspiration. Possibly the lack of vanity
in the singer’s method of approach and
in the very-much-subdued accompani-
ments of John Hannell had something
to do with the apparent uniformity.
Pianist Clifford Huntsman played
Schumann and Debussy very daintily
and prettily;
Australian One-act Plays.
A group of Sydney repertory theatres
combined last week to present five one-
act plays at the Independent Theatre.
Dymphna Cusack’s “Shallow Cups,”
staged by the Sydney University
Dramatic Society, was the best of the
bag. Bryant’s Playhouse was responsible
for Louis Esson’s “The Lion Tamer,” a
slice of slum life in Melbourne. Sydney
Tomholt’s “Leading Lady,” put on by the
Independent Theatre, gave good oppor-
tunity for vigorous acting, while Betty
Roland’s “Morning” was smoothly
presented and acted by the New Theatre
League. Lionel Shave’s amusing skit on
mystery dramas, “That’s Murder,”
played by the Sydney Players’ Club,
scored the laughs of the evening.
“No More Music/ 9
“No More Music,” put on by the Syd-
ney Thirty-eight Theatre at St. James
Hall, is about a duke and a duchess
holidaying in Switzerland; the duke,
who’s a bit of a boundah, pays attention
to a beautiful, repressed young school-
mistress who falls for him good and
hard, but the duchess is worldly-wise and
the duke doesn’t really care, so the beau-
tiful young lady chucks herself good and
hard from the top of the Matterhorn.
Or else it’s about a group of Priestley
bores cooped up on a yacht bound for
the South Seas; the fatuous majah and
his acidulous lady, the comic old woman
and the dear old man, plus a nerve-
racked novelist and his worldly-wise
female secretary and the innocent niece
of the comic old girl; and under the
glamor of the tropic night the novelist
philanders with the niece, but the sec-
retary is the one he turns to for comfort
in the hurricane, so the poor young gel
hangs herself from the yardarm.
Or else it’s about a comic party of
tourists at the Zoo, and the exotic odors
of the jungle and the baying of the
platypuses set a dark fire burning in the
veins of the elderly poet and the leader
of the Girl Guides ; fortunately the *poet
has one of those worldly-wise wives, and
he runs to her when the hippopotamus
escapes, so the poor Girl Guide chucks
herself horribly to the tigers.
As a matter of fact, it’s about the
guests at a small private hotel on an
island in the West Indies, and the nerve-
racked philanderer is an artist, and the
gel leaps over a cliff at the end of Act 111.
Laura West, as gel, made as good a
job as was possible of a part that no
one could make credible. John Bushelle,
artist, seemed ideal for the part in the
first act, but after that he overdid the
jitters. Surely even those wild men
who paint pictures don’t boil like a
whistling kettle for two whole acts for
no more valid reason than that they’ve
the choice of two very desirable women.
Like artist and gel, all the other
characters came out of stock; but the
casting was splendid and the acting of
genuine quality. Tom Farley was the
ancient with a taste for whisky, Anne
Carlson delightful as the sort of aunt
whose conversation consists entirely of
platitudes and operations, Don Mac-
Gregor and Margaret Farquharson, a
bright pair as the colonel and his biting
better-half, Betty Coller very polished
and assured as the woman-who-won.
The play had humor, but its values
were those of the flapper mags., and a
few Freudian commonplaces did nothing
to redeem it. Can’t the Thirty-eight
Theatre find a better playwright than
Rosamond Lehmann?
Amateur Gilsullivan.
“The Gondoliers” tripped lightly from
its Venetian craft on to the boards of the
Sydney Conservatorium on Saturday
night, when the Sydney Musical Society
gave Gilbert and Sullivan’s backhander
to moth-eaten aristocracy an airing.
A very creditable performance, it
started off in rather subdued fashion, but
as the players warmed up to their parts
the mists of restraint cleared away. This
was particularly so with Weveney West
and Bonnie Judd, whose stilted beginning
as the gondoliers’ wives gave little indi-
cation of the sterling performances that
were to follow. Nan Shoreham and
Marcia Schofield as Casilda and the
Duchess respectively brought poise and
sound vocal equipment to their roles.
But the show’s success was mainly due
to Stan Buddie’s interpretation of the
Grand Inquisitor. Not only was there a
rich resonance in both his singing and
speaking voices—even in top speed his
enunciation was crystal-clear—but he in-
vested the part with a droll humor, the
spontaneity of which seemed to inspire
his fellow-players to better efforts. Leo
Darnton, whose long experience has thor-
oughly steeped him in the best D’Oyley
Carte tradition, sang capitally and acted
with zest. Reg Willoughby, Charles
Allan and Joel Joseph filled other roles
with moderate success. Choruses mostly
were vigorous and the orchestra “orched”
to Ivan Rixon’s capably-swung baton.
Amateurs at Sydney Royal.
When Doris Fitton’s Independents in-
vaded the Theatre Royal for two nights
last week they could have picked better
than “1066 and All That.” The parody
on English history reads well and has
plenty of laughs, but dramatised it’s a
tedious business which can’t be closed
and put aside for a while. The good
bits come too seldom.
Best of them were “The Four
Georges,” “fine old Englische gentle-
mens” goose-stepping and singing Ger-
man folk songs; a bit with Nelson.
Napoleon and Wellington; King John
and a Robert the Bruce bearing a close
resemblance to Harry Lauder. They
brought laughs, but not nearly so con-
sistently as did O. D. Bisset, who com-
pered the show and covered a lot Of
the ground in monologue.
Characters through the 23 scenes were
individually good, but most were lost
in a mass of irrelevancy.
“Song of the Plains.”
Virginia Bruce, Nelson Eddy.
It’s a plume in Mr. Eddy’s tile that
he gets along much better without the
bewchus Jeanette MacDonald than she
does without him. In the recently-shown
“Broadway Serenade” Jeanette was like
a seal in the desert without her Nelson ;
in this current Sydney Liberty offering
Nelson warbles on his lonesome without
any visible signs of distress, taking Miss
Bruce to his wigwam to comfort him
in muter moments.
Apart from giving Mr. Eddy space
to ventilate his tonsils, film has to do
with bad old days in Gahd’s Own when
rascally Wall-street barons were exploit-
ing poor simple settlers who had land
adjoining the new railroad. Mr. Eddy
returns from learning to be a lawyer at
college and finds land-sharks in control
of his home town and about to snaffle
the estate of his ailing parents ; forth-
with he gets very drunk and tuneful and
throws in his lot with the crooks, to the
confusion, sorrow and anger of parents
and sundry other settlers, including Vir-
ginia.
There’s much plotting, stoush and
other dark doings, and there’s a mysteri-
ous cave in the mountains where is
printed a mysterious paper in which are
published mysterious articles written by
a mysterious person called “The Wasp”
and attacking the rascally,land-grabbers.
Of course “The Wasp” is as much the
hero of the settlers as Mr. Eddy is their
black sheep, and of course Mr. Eddy is
“The Wasp” all the time. It follows just
as naturally that Mr. Eddy sends the
land-sharks packing, and still more
naturally that Virginia, duly penitent,
returns to his bosom before fadeout.
Mr. Eddy throws out his chest and
pours out a ditty whenever circumstances
permit. Edward Arnold offers some


HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Caused by Tired Kidneys
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can
be relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are one of Nature’s chief ways
of taking acids and wastes out of the blood.
A healthy person should pass about 3 pints a
day and so get rid of more than 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don’t work well, this poisonous waste stays in
the body. It may start nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Don’t let it lay you up.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of peoDte. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the IS
miles of kidney tubes. So be sure you get
VO AN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
HISTANTIY/
w
what
Oh
A
efiffe rence
Benzol mokes
a
/
mm.
. Plus
roB SttP ® \j ate 0 ,
Jr C co l Ita* *-££* Ben l°l
pe«ol= J? “
Ss&Sc£S
■rt£Srffa ,a ~
oxean
tftean W ° .
/
C173.275P
r cOL
s upJ f
£Tfl YL
. :
CP
THERE’S A GRADE .TO —SUIT YOUR GAR
fdg
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.) Incorporated in Victoria
credible and colorful villainy, Lionel
Barrymore a sentimental sketch as an
old settler, and Victor McLaglen turns
in a magnificent, hard-drinking and
hard-fighting boss of the railroad con-
struction gang.
“Clouds Over Europe/*
Ralph Richardson, Lawrence Olivier.
Except for the acting of Richardson
and Olivier, there’s little to this main
Sydney Mayfair item that can’t be seen
almost any day of the week down Syd-
ney Capitol way. Espionage and sabotage
in R.A.F. are its theme, and it’s padded
out to the approved length with a moider
or two, a mysterious ray which brings
down ’planes as easily as that, and a
grand all-in stoush with machine-guns,
a salvage boat and destroyer at the finish.
Richardson holds the opus on a note
of light comedy all the way. He’s among
the best of English actors and needs no
resort to artifice or lines to help him
along. Though he manages quite capably
here, Olivier appears to be better suited
to more dramatic fare.
Support at the Mayfair, “So This Is
London,” is a comedy of rib-damaging
dimensions, with Robertson Hare threat-
ening most of the damage. Mr. Hare
mellows and improves with time, and if
he goes on at this rate he’ll become a
menace to theatre foundations.
“ Ex-Champ/*
Victor McLaglen, Tom Brown.
At Sydney Capitol, and all about the
fightin’ game, but with Tom Brown
instead of Mr. McLaglen handing out
the stoush and revelling in every minute
of it.
Butt of every hard-up in town, Mc-
Laglen is an ex-pug turned commissionaire,
and living in the fading glories of his
prime as a bruiser and in the future of
his son, whom, by sacrifice of every-
thing but the last button on his pants,
he has placed in the front row of Wall-
street. But the young cove turns out a
snooty young boundah, and, figuratively,
repays him with a broadside of straight
lefts placed well below his not-incon-
siderable belt.
As salvation from the fleshpots—the
scene in which he becomes blithered
from despondency is one of the best of
its kind yet seen —the disillusioned Mc-
Laglen is coaxed to give a rising young
battler a leg-up the boxing tree. Mean-
time, son gets into a tight spot by
monkeying on the ’Change with a client’s
funds, and it takes a 60,000 dahlar bet-
ting coup on young pug’s championship
fight to save family honor.
Film is lifted from the rut by Mc-
La glen’s fine characterisation —a study
in complete contrast to his boisterous
portrayal in the latest Eddy opus. Pity
lie’s not reserved more for the weightier
stuff; Hollywood seems to have for-
gotten “The Informer.”
“Hotel Imperial/*
Isa Miranda, Ray Milland, Reginald Owen.
Sydney Prince Edward lets loose this
mildly-entertaining opus as an introduc-
tion to Miss Miranda. She’s not hard
on the eyes—though there are dozens
who are easier—but her histrionic ability
amounts to slightly less than gazing pen-
sively at the camera or seemingly throw-
ing back her head as if to test the elas-
ticity of her gullet.
Film has to do with the war-time
goings-on in a pub situated in a small
village which swaps hands between the
Russians and the Austrians about half
a dozen times per week. The town —
mainly the pub—is occupied by Russians,
but Austrian officer Mr. Milland
couldn’t get away in time, so stays on
disguised as a waiter. Miss Miranda
stays on too, because she thinks he’s the
bloke who wronged her little sister,
A Russian spy returning from the Aus-
trian lines spots Mr. Milland, who bumps
him off and then hops it to save his
brethren from walking into a Russian
trap; Miss Miranda heroically takes
blame for spy’s death and is about to
be shot when Mr. Milland gallops back
at the head of the Austrian army—or at
least of some of it. Clinch.
Reginald Owen makes an amusing but
impossible Russian general, J. Carrol
Naish a spy of similar characteristics,
and there’s an item or two from the
Don Cossack Chorus.
“The Pyjama Girl/ *
A feature of the show at Sydney’s
State Theatrette is “The Pyjama Girl,”
a short dealing with the five-year-old
Albury tragedy which has been worn
threadbare by the flapper press. It is
produced in collaboration with the N. S.
Wales Police Department under the
supervision of the “Chief Crime Inves-
tigator” of Associated News, who speaks
the dialogue.
For those who like Yankee detective
magazines of the type now banned from
the Commonwealth it will come like a
breath of spring after a long winter. It
shows the spot marked “X” and plenty
of detectives.
The rest is a revel of horror —picture
of the post-mortem in progress with
surgeon extracting bullet, reconstructed
and unreconstructed pictures (the latter
a loathsome sight) of the victim, of
mannequin posing in her reconstructed
clothes, of detectives in bare feet wading
in drained lagoon and of horrified ladies
and gents strolling past the body in the
Sydney University Anatomy School, their
faces suddenly registering their natural
emotions at the shocking sight.
“A Royal Divorce.**
Ruth Chatterton, Pierre Blanchard.
The fact that it’s the story of
Napoleon and Josephine gives this Syd-
ney Victory offering some interest; but
it seems to have been designed to show
how inappropriate casting and naive
direction can ruin a great theme. Ruth
Chatterton, supposed to be exotically
beautiful, looks haggard; Blanchard’s
Napoleon looks more like a witch than
a soldier, and is sombre without being
powerful.
There are a few dramatic scenes, but
there are too many large full-moon close-
ups as a substitute for action, and the
scene where Josephine tells Napoleon
not to wave his arms about and teaches
him the stance that is celebrated in
his portraits is childish.
Some Neo-Classics.
These are at David Jones’s Market-
street store, Sydney, a prosaic setting
for such superlative flights of artis-
tic fancy. The pictures, most of
which seem to have been done with a
tongue stuck roguishly in the cheek, are
in the modes made familiar years ago
by the cubists, the vorticists, the da-daists
and the ga-gaists.
So far as the exhibits are describable,
attention may be directed to the signifi-
cance of the turquoise-blue arms of the
female in Ralph Balson’s “Holiday,” and
the piebald condition of the cuticle of
the woman in Grace Crowley’s “Annun-
ciation.” Miss Crowley has also a pair of
camels eating a mowing-machine in sym-
bolisation.of “Harvest,” and a green dog
which doubtless contributes a lot to the
psychoanalysis of her “Squatter’s Daugh-
ter.” Rah Fizelle’s symbolisation of
“Movement” as a one-eyed female of
Epsteinian physique squatting as immov-
ably as the Rock of Gibraltar is a par-
ticularly happy piece of insight. Frank
Hinder’s “Lake Fishermen” is a case
where the potter’s hand has slipped, the
picture, taking everything into considera-
tion, suggesting no more than its title.
’ bb 6
. a ™. some sculptures, too, some
'« *■« Epstem manner, others in various
“ nusual mate ™ ls - J us < dmly suggest-
J n S »"» r “? mbla "? e after one , h “
ea ™ d '» le - ,° be I rw,sa „°“ e m 'S bt
take Gerald Lewers s Ploughi for a dol-
phtn or a trdobde, and h,s Bunytp for
a fa ' Sbm ng J'ke a good deed in
a aa VS h| y w°dd is Margel Hinders
capably-carved Mother and Child (in
ironbark), and her “Doves” do at least
« x P ress the cherubic chubbiness of the
subjects. .
Justice Evatt mentioned with satis-
faction in his opening address that the
works of Matisse and Modigliani some-
times realise in these glad days 200 times
as much as do the works of such poor
dubs as Orpen. But Modigliani was not
an abstractionist. His specialty was
painting recognisable things so revolt-
jngjy as to U p Se t the strongest-stomached
cat
Robert Campbells Show.
r
Robert Campbell, a show of whose oils
and water-colors graces the walls of the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, impresses.
by his ability and sincerity. He has ad-
vanced considerably since his last show
in the same gallery some years ago. He
is, as every worth-while painter must be,
still a student, still an explorer of new
fields, and some of his work is not quite
mature. But where he has made good
his foundations, as in “Red Rocks ai
Morning,” “At Long Reef,” “A New
House, Collaroy” and “The Lagoon,
Afternoon,” he fills his canvases with
shimmering light and life. His sea
studies, too, either in oils or water-color,
give the fruits of long study of this dif-
ficult and ever-changing subject. His
style in oils is crisp and vigorous; in
water-colors, suave and sensitive.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
$0
m
40
’ J .' s.
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S*pringwood; or ,particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
Statutory Notice to Next-of-kin.
Re ROBERT STEPHEN BROWN late of
Kingaroy in the State of Queensland Re-
tired Merchant deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that FORREST
RALPH BROWN and all persons claiming
through him to be next-of-kin of the above-
named ROBERT STEPHEN RROWN late of
Kingaroy in the State of Queensland deceased
who died on or about the Twenty-seventh day
of September 1930 a.d. at Kingaroy aforesaid
are hereby required to forward proof of their
relationship to THE PUBLIC CURATOR
Brisbane on or before the Thirtieth day of
November 1939 AND that after the expiration
of the lastmentioned date the Public Curator
will proceed to distribute the assets of the
said deceased among the parties entitled thereto
having regard only to the claims of which he
shall then have had notice.
DATED this Eleventh day of August, 1939.
R. J. S. BARNETT, Public Curator,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Personal and Missing Friends.
REWARD of £lO is offered for information
as to present address of PETER HOWARD
GAYE (Englishman), age about 27, last heard
of doing farm work at Gunnedah and Totten-
ham, New South Wales. His friends have
important news for him. Communicate V.R.,
Box 784 J, G.P.0., Melbourne.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Marcel Dupres were the guests
of the International Society last week,
and the gentle French musician told the
assemblage how lovely Sydney was, how
lovely our harbor, how magnificent our
Town Halt organ, and how in playing
it he had fulfilled an ambition of twenty,
thirty, or maybe forty years’ standing.
A lady near by wanted to know if he had
ever played the organ at Salt Lake City.
But his reply was inaudible. There was
lots of fun in the air. The Snowden
lady and Mrs. Munger made many in-
troductions. The profile of Miss Tenny-
son Miller was distinguished under her
small black hat. Dolly Hollander-
Moore’s hat was a tiny pillbox in bur-
gundy felt. Mrs. Carey, Mrs. Denison
Miller and Mrs. Kingsley Graham, Mrs.
Nelson Cox, Mrs. Florence Taylor, good-
looking Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre and Valerie
Nute were some who toasted France and
the Dupres. Aubrey Halloran brought
a breeze of laughter with his quotation
from the board outside a church (he
said it was Canon Hammond’s). The
exhortation was “Face - powder may
attract a man, but it’s baking-powder
that keeps him.”
Bulletin readers still remember that
delightful Chunuma, by Elizabeth and
Mary Durack, of Argyle station, near
Wyndham (W.A.). Well, Elizabeth came
to town to be the guest of the Governor-
General and Lady Gowrie, and sud-
denly decided last week-end to get
married. Bridegroom was Francis
Clancy, Sydney journalist and author.
The wedding was at St. Mary’s, and
Lady Gowrie, plus a catch of guests
from Admiralty House, attended. Cap-
tain Llewellyn Palmer, A.D.C., gave the
bride away. Later there was a lunch
party at Admiralty House.
Guess who was absorbed by “Mr.
Chips” on Saturday! Prime Minis-
ter Menzies, and he was enjoying the
gentle story as much as anybody could.
He was the guest of the Charles Lloyd
Jones couple, with whom he had lunched.
Rachel Holcer, the Polish actress, was
the bright star of the Lyceum Club’s
cocktail party last Friday. It was really
an Arts Circle gaiety, and many painters
and poets were there nibbling savories
that ran from lobster to those multi-
colored onions, and slaking their thirst
with sherry. Director of the National
Gallery Will Ashton was there with his
wife, her hat one of the new shovel-
brimmed, in beige tones. Near by sat
Theo Cowan, who represented sculp-
ture. This was her first public appear-
ance in some months, and everybody was
complimenting her on her return to good
health. Mrs. A. G. Thomas and Mrs.
Darsow helped to welcome the guests
into a room heady with spring—tall
spikes of rosy peach blossom were in
tall vase and low bowl on the little dais
and on the long tables. Rachel Holcer,
her clear-cut features defined by a snugly-
fitting toque of Persian lamb, told of the
20 theatres in Warsaw where they like
drama much more than they like opera.
“Joe” Collins was at the party ; so was
Mrs. William Moore, squired by a jour-
nalist brother-in-law from Melbourne.
Nancy Bird, who looks as though the
fairies might have cradled her in an
acorn, so small is she, was the reason
for dozens of strong big men climbing
the hill to Petty’s last Thursday.
Newly returned from England and
America George Fitz Patrick was the
host, and Nancy had knight Hugh
Denison on her left and banker knight
Buckland (in the nineties, and almost as
bright of eye as the little airwoman her-
self) two down on the right. Many poli-
ticians were at the party, and George
paid them a compliment by saying that
not even in the Capitol at Washington
nor in the House of Commons had he
seen their superiors. Hugh Denison
spoke soothly to the guest, and his praise
of her exploits was even as a starry
banner. Then on behalf of the assem-
blage he handed over a sheaf of daffo-
dils nearly as big as Nancy herself. Her
outline of her coming exhibition show-
ing up-to-the-minute working of civil
aviation in all the countries of the world
was one of the highlights of a bright
party.
Even if you do not take the exhibition
in David Jones’s Market-street gallery
to your heart, you will at least be in-
terested in it. Interest was the dominant
feeling at the opening, which was done in
masterly way by Justice Evatt. He is an
admirer of this nea-classicism, and
proves it with a cheque. Two paintings
in this show are his. One of Ralph
Balson’s is newly acquired ; the other, by
Grace Crowley, is an old friend. An
inner thought that brought the gleam of
pleasure to his keen legal eye was the
completion of his biography of William
Holman. Mrs. Holman, who was at the
show, and he had quite a congratulatory
five minutes over the work, which is said
to be very human and gripping.
Mrs. Evatt was with her husband, a
pretty figure in a black suit on which a
great cluster of lily of the valley bloomed.
Mrs. Nassoor admired, as did everybody,
Margaret Hinder’s carving, ironbark the
medium, “Mother and Child.” This Let-
ter’s favor was entirely gained by the
head of Rah Fizelle’s “Emily.” Ralph
Balson’s “Girl in Pink” and Frank Hin-
der’s “Lake Fishermen” were next in
order. Julian Ashton (89 this year, he
whispered) was greeted by many. Mrs.
Gerald Lewers, whose husband is an
exhibitor, was one of the fur-caped. The
Francis Anderson couple were visitors.
Mary Clarke is one of the junior
treasurers for the Cerise and Blue Ball,
the yearly forgathering of St. Joseph’s
College Old Boys’ Union. This will be
in the State ballroom to-morrow night,
when nearly 500 will dance to the glory
of Joey’s and to the benefit of the bur-
sary fund. Star event of the night will
be the presentation of the honor caps to
the football premiers for 1939. This is
the fifth year “Joey’s” has won the G.P.S.
football premiership, and this year there
have been no defeats at all. Dr. De
Moncheaux will present the caps. Photo-
graph from Falk.
The Guild of Empire is still striving for
better housing in the industrial suburbs,
and the subject discussed at last Friday’s
lunch was timber as a home-builder. The
case was in the hands of J. M. Gosper
and Mr. Huddlestone. These two experts
in forestry dispelled all the objections the
Australians have against the timber
house. Instances of a church in Sweden,
wooden even to the very pins that hold
its joints, which has endured the wind
and the rain of several hundred years,
of the piles of old London Bridge, found
to be in perfect condition, of George
Washington’s home on the Potomac
recently visited by the King and Queen,
were given as evidence of the longevity
of well-seasoned wood. In various coun-
tries of the world there is a movement,
often backed by the Government or the
municipal bodies, to build timber houses
for the worker. Many of these are
examples of fine architectural art, and
as they can be built at a lower cost than
those of brick or stone the rental to the
worker is very low. Such houses would
certainly encourage a higher birthrate.
The speakers pointed out that Australia
is noted for its hardwoods, and, treated
with resistant resins, these can defy even
the borer and the white-ant. Mr. Huddle-
stone touched a poetic truth when
he said: “The only fault with timber is
that for too long it has been the faithful
servant of man. In other words, we fail
to appreciate what is freely offered.”
Ruth Pearce-Jones lifted her lyric
soprano in the Assembly Hall, Federation
House, on the same night as Lord
Lurgan’s recital in the Con. The result
was that many listeners half-timed at
each. This was Ruth’s first public ap-
pearance since her studies in Vienna and
Paris, and her always worth-while voice
has now an extra polish and a roundness
to it. Ruth’s white chiffons were weighted
by a deep, deep border of white satin,
and her flower offerings were rich and
many. This little hall is a cosy place.
Its chairs are leather upholstered, and it
is suitable for the intimate entertainment.
The hall was crowded with the musical-
minded from the heights of North Shore.
Phyllis Arnott was among these. Phyllis
is busy preparing her own first concert
since her years in Europe. The Charles
Philip couple, Mrs. Pickworth, whose
daughter Constance is again studying
singing in Italy, the Williams sisters, Sir
Hugh Poynter, Ruby Adams and Mrs.
Rex Bennett were others.
No group in Sydney has done such
good work in stimulating interest in the
ballet as the Mischa Burlakov First Aus-
tralian Russian Ballet. The school of
dancing flourishes above Henrietta-lane,
near the Quay, and has given some very
graceful interpretations of the classic bal-
lets. On August 24 its offerings are “The
Swan Lake” and “Camaval.” The former
will be presented in the full four acts.
Barbara MacDonell, the girl in this
picture, will be the leading ballerina, and
is also responsible for the decor. Bar-
bara has designed the scenery, and with
Mischa Burlakov’s help she is now busy
painting it on enormous canvases. Bar-
bara has studied art with Fred Leist,
Phyllis Shillito and Rayner Hoff, who at
the time of his death was art director of
Sydney Technical College. ’Cellist An-
tonio Sorgato will conduct the orchestra,
and Jean Hoban, student of the Con-
servatorium, will play the full'pianoforte
accompaniment.
Not many wealthy women living on
unearned increment give a donation of
£l4O in one smack to a charity. Then
consider the noble generosity of singing-
teacher Ada Baker, who handed over
this amount at the annual meeting of the
Rachel Forster Hospital. The handsome
cheque was the result of a three nights’
season of “Les Cloches de Corneville,”
put on by Ada’s pupils and admirers to
celebrate her fiftieth anniversary as a
teacher. The meeting out at the Women’s
College was a crowded affair, and per-
haps in compliment to Mr. Primrose,
who did not appear, many of the com-
mittee ladies had these gentle blooms
pinned in their coats. Lady Gowrie came
to the meeting, which hadn’t a dull
moment.
Mrs. Read, president of this hospital,
which does great work, for the poor
women and children of the city, threw
out a suggestion about a ten-bob present
from every woman in the State. This
would make the building plans certain of
achievement. At the moment, for lack
of space, the iron lung presented by Lord
Nuffield is being lodged out, till the R.F.
has its new building and a taller roof-
tree. Noted that all those burgundy and
mulberry tones seemed first favorite with
social welfare workers. Even the flowers
in Dr. Grace Cuthbert’s hat were shaded
in these colors. Mrs. F. J. Davy, the un-
tiring, was at the meeting, though that
night she and her hockey girls took train
for Adelaide.
The Monterey went off loaded with
such a mixture as Charlotte Greenwood,
Anna May Wong, Artur Schnabel (with
wife, of course) and the gold-leafed Du
Ponts. What a crowd to be emptied out
on a desert island! At least the rest of
the passenger castaways would have
plenty of entertainment. The Du Ponts,
though, would not be able to have their
exclusive and expensive suites. Money
only talks in civilisation.
Good-looking Mary Makinson, well-
known member of the Forum Club, and
a constant attendant at the city’s art
shows, died last week after a short ill-
ness. Her death followed that of her
mother by about three weeks. A wide
circle of friends and two brothers and
two sisters are sorrowing.
Two masters of the Crown-street Boys
Commercial School trained a few boys
in the art of acting. The original idea
of a penny school concert grew in size
till the Maccabean Hall was needed for
the audience. Over 700 tickets were sold
for the school’s first play night. A
diminutive piano-accordionist and a
choir sang songs at a campfire “in front,”
while, unaided, the boys stage-managed,
manipulated electrics, and arranged
home-made scenery of crayons and wall-
paper, etc., for the hero of the night,
William Campbell, in “A Night at an
Inn.” “Pickwick,” “Lucrezia Borgia”
and a Scotch playlet revealed much
talent.
One of these days Lord Lurgan will
grow tired of wandering about the earth
murmuring respectfully “Come, Kiss Me,
Sweet and Twenty.” Even the coy little
kitten in the dairy may lose its allure,
and then he will settle comfortably in
his place in the House of Lords. Lord
Lurgan is upstanding, with a pleasing
look and way with him. His voice is
small to Sydney ears. But goodness,
how innumerable were the spotless
white kid gloves present to applaud!
The Conservatorium buzzed with ex-
citement as well-known after well-
known rustled to his or her place. If
the recital, as a musical occasion, was
not so bon, it certainly was the society
rally of the week.
The Governor-General and Lady
Gowrie came to the concert. The singer
and pianist Clifford Huntsman had both
been guests at Admiralty House. Lady
Gowrie, a gleam of blue and silver and
the gold of daffodils as she passed to her
seat, looked very attractive. The vice-
regals brought a great party with them,
Mrs. Fred Payne, Ivie Price and
America’s Consul-General Wilson among
them. The chairman of the Broadcasting
Commission (it was an A.B.C. concert),
with Mrs. Cleary, received the Admiralty
House group. The Bertie Kellys, Miss
Elizabeth Plummer, the Julius lady and
Mrs. J. L. Ruthven were noted. Rada
Penfold Hyland was one of the pretty
young things. Hazel King, a singer her-
self, was there with her mother, the Kelso
King lady. Noreen Dangar wore one of
the prettiest frocks —pale-grey chiffons.
The M. J. Slatterys, of Woollahra, are
still being praised for the party they put
on in honor of the 21st birthday of eldest
son Bill. The big fires in the reception
rooms were no warmer than the welcome.
Mrs. Slattery wore a lovely frock of
white romaine, which, as the night was
very cold, she covered with a mink cape.
The heir’s sisters, Mary, home from
school for the occasion, in a green taffeta
old-world frock, and Margaret, in white
organza, with a sash and hair ribbon of
leaf-green, helped to look after their
friends, most of them sons and daughters
of the judiciary and of medical well-
knowns.
Pianist St. Quinton Downer puts up
something of a record for admirals in
the family. Admiral Sulivan (he was
Captain Sulivan in the Renown, in which
the King and Queen, then the royal
Yorks, came to Australia) is the ninth
admiral in his mother’s family. His great-
grandfather was first Sea Lord and Gov-
ernor of Gibraltar. He captured two
Spanish vessels in the Napoleonic Wars
and received £130,000 prize-money. He
earned it, too, 24 chests of Spanish gold
doubloons being through his efforts
housed in Dover Castle. St. Quinton
Downer’s father was chaplain to King
Edward VII. at Biarritz, and as a youth
the musician, at his command, played
for the monarch. This was a few weeks
before Edward’s death.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1332 of 1939.
BETWEEN SUSAN WILSON Petitioner
And WILLIAM WILSON Respondent.
TO WILLIAM WILSON late of Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said SUSAN
WILSON has commenced a suit against you
in this Court and has applied for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Sixteenth day of November next and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. Copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Eighteenth day of August. 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
Peti-
Rc-
1N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 917 of 1934.
BETWEEN MARY ETHEL SMITH
doner
And JOHN CHARLES SMITH
spondent.
TO JOHN CHARLES SMITH formerly of
Broadmeadow in the State of New South
TAKE ’NOTICE that the said MARY
ETHEL SMITH has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court
on or before the Third day of November a.d.
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
AND in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this sixteenth day of August a.d.
1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
GILBERT C. MURDOCH, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 133 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1222 of 1939.
BETWEEN AVENIA JANE YERBURY
(formerly AVENIA JANE KITSON)
Petitioner
And ARCHIBALD EDWARD YERBURY
Respondent.
TO ARCHIBALD EDWARD YERBURY late
of Hillston Leeton and Griffith.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AVENIA
JANE YERBURY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Tenth day
of November One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Sixteenth day of August, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
For the Registrar,
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
C. D’A. ROBERTS, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 56 Young Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1240 of 1939.
BETWEEN MARY ANN FISHER Petitioner
And WALTER FISHER Respondent.
TO WALTER FISHER late of Canowindra
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY ANN
FISHER has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Tenth day of
November 1939 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 15th day of August, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. S. DAVIES, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1391 of 1939.
BETWEEN EMILY MONICA O’DOHERTY
Petitioner
And JAMES O’DOHERTY Respondent.
TO JAMES O’DOHERTY late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said EMILY
MONICA O’DOHERTY has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Ninth day
of November 1939 and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Tenth day of August, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
HUGH W. S. JERMYN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 12 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
One hundred and forty young folk
went a-truckin’ in the ballroom of The
Grange, lona-avenue, the home of the
F. W. Sprys, to aid the Deaf and Dumb.
Expenses were nil, for the 16 girls on the
committee had had so many tennis parties
and picture parties to cope with any bills
accruing that the debit column was empty
in the final reckoning. Yvonne Spry
(who wore for the party a lovely frock
of mist-blue moire with narrow shoulder-
straps and tiny buttons down the front
of the corsage) and Joan Anderson
(whose ensemble consisted of fan pleats
and navy blue and white stripes and a
little navy jacket) had run a successful
tennis party on Joan Dunstan’s court.
Jean Prentice (who wore black velvet)
and Marjorie Howe (whose lace sleeves
were a frivolous note upon her black
frock) had held a similar afternoon in
the open air on the D. A. Prentices’ court
at Kew. Pat Armstrong (who danced in
blue and green lame) had access recently
to another Kew court for the good cause,
the possession of the E. L. Piesse couple
and their half-dozen offspring.
Shirley Watson’s dance frock was a
midnight sky of black tulle sparkling with
golden stars. Also in black were Peg
Robinson.and Betty Harrison. Marion
Barton was all for the contrast of lipstick-
red with white spots. Biddy Irwin allied
a striped lame tunic with crinkle crepe
skirt, while Margaret McNamara bor-
rowed an idea from an era of starched
muslins for the beading threaded with
velvet ribbon around the off-the-shoulder
neckline of her white frock.
Among lads who assisted were
Howard Spry (often known as “Sam”),
who saw that thirsts were assuaged
in his den, a room with character,
imparted thereto by an array of
silver cups and college snapshots and
a Geelong Grammar oar strung up on
the wall. Helping also were Jim Govett,
Jock Cockrill, John Davey, Jack Green
and Don Wood. Decorations throughout
the house were pink and white blossoms,
“begged, borrowed or stolen,” and a men-
agerie of quaint animals collected by
Yvonne in various parts of the world and
allowed to disport themselves for the
evening over the fireplace in the ball-
room.
Special guests at the dinner-dance of
the Society of Westralians in Victoria
were several golfers out of the W-A.
team, here to represent their State in the
open championships now being played at
Royal Melbourne. Among scratch men
present who brought their wives to the
party were Dr. Norman Robinson, Ted
Hantke and Bob Ainslie. Present also
were Ted Taylor and Gordon Smith.
Some of these mighty swipers arrived
late, for not knowing St. Kilda they went
looking in the wrong direction for the
Prince of Wales, where the dinner was
held. But Dr. Robinson’s delay was the
hand of Fate, thumbs down—a borrowed
car, a puncture, and a jack that wouldn’t fit.
John Roydhouse, of Geelong, made
a speech and revived amusing associa-
tions of the days when, as sportsmaster
at Hale School in Perth, he had laid
heavy hands upon some of those present,
then small, skinny boys, which remark
brought a look pregnant with emotion
from Gra Rosser, who stroked Hale
School crew not so many years ago, and
who now carries around 17 stone. Among
others present at the party were Mrs. K.
Joel, in a black gown with a fichu of
guipure lace upon its corsage, Captain
and Mrs. Edgar Johnstone, the Pat
Trouchets and Mrs. Leith Gillespie, who
claimed a fair share of color in the room
with her cape of tangerine feathers.
Standing on the stairs between Ferdi-
nand the Bull and Yellow Dog Dingo,
John Brownlee made his first official ap-
pearance during his present visit to Mel-
bourne when he opened the Opportunity
Shop in Collins-street, which is to aid
the Deaf and Dumb Fund for a fortnight
on the old stance of Newman’s jewellery
premises. Mrs. Brownlee, who accom-
panied her husband, was a heart-lifting
picture for a dull, wet day in a beauti-
fully cut black coat, black Mexican hat
and generous supply of mauve orchids.
The couple resisted the appeal of the toy
stall (cabin space round the world for
their children’s toys is already a prob-
lem), but they invested heavily in lucky
tickets for a baby doll.
The chairman of the Opportunity Shop
committee, Mrs. Walter Carnegie, was
there to do the honors. Present also were
various other committee people and their
friends, lassoed for both selling and buy-
ing. Mrs. Harold Clapp introduced a
spot of color, a persimmon coat over a
blue frock ; so did Mary Stephens, with
her violet scarf to match a giddy little
bow upon her mist-blue beret. Mary,
with Mrs. Bob Gove, was attached to
the toy stall. Mrs. John McCahon had
a squirrel coat to keep her warm while
selling babies’ woollies at the children’s
stall, where Marie Stahle was also active
while brightening the landscape of her
black, frock with a necklace of purple
shells.
Among those over at the “produce”
were Mrs. Essington Lewis, Mrs. George
Stevenson and Mrs. O. F. Phillips, who
had begged lemons from her friends’ trees
and eggs “straight from the nest.” .Help-
ing also behind the counter was Mrs.
Ted Milford, who felt, as she sank a
knife into the whopping big Western Dis-
trict cheese, that she was once again
playing the part of leading lady at a mili-
tary wedding, cutting the cake with her
husband’s sword. Vaire Wilkinson, in
black, and Mrs. Bruce Carnegie, in a
sporting suit of black skirt and sulphur-
yellow jacket, were among those attached
to the “oddments” stall. Mrs. David
Syme, a brunette vision in periwinkle-
blue, sister Bonnie Lawrance and Diana
Campbell sold permits for fishing in the
lucky dip. Upstairs Sue f)ennett let her
head go in the matter of a flower-stall,
trailing ivy round the balcony, filling the
windows with potted shrubs, and any
other nooks and crannies with gum-leaves,
pussywillow (from her own garden) and
springtime wattle.
In this Jack Cato photograph is Vera
Grist, who gave a dance recital last night
(22nd) at Central Hall in Collins-street.
This young dancer organised and made
a success of her first recital three months
ago, and has once more been on the job
for a more ambitious programme, also
attending herself to the small details that
crop up over booking arrangements,
printing of programmes, etc. Vera is
ambitious and immensely interested in her
work. Anton Dolin saw her dance several
times, and gave her a most encouraging
verdict Assisting artists at the recital
we're pianist Valda Johnstone, tenor
Kevin Plant and violinist Carlo Briglia,
also some of Madame Saronova’s pupils.
The most excited person in John
Brownlee’s audience on Saturday night
was Rita Miller, who five years ago was
the Australian baritone’s associate artist.
As well as hearing her good friend John
sing again, she also knows and appre-
ciates his accomplished pianist, Ivor New-
ton. Old Father Time hasn’t made notice-
able demands upon Brownlee. All his
old dash is there, his histrionic command
of opera and his delicate sense of comedy
in putting over such ballads as “Sing a
Song of Sixpence” and “Simon the
Cellarer.” He’s as well built as ever, with
no sign of superfluous spread, and his
hair is as thick.
At the concert Mrs. Brownlee was as
striking as a beauteous brunette can be
when she wears all-white, even to ermine
coat, pearl earrings and necklace. John
Brownlee’s two sisters were there, receiv-
ing proxy congratulations on their
brother’s return. Mrs. R. G. Casey
brought a large party. The Raymond
Lamberts were present, Mrs. Lambert
looking as beautifully groomed as ever,
with her hair done a new way in pot-
hook curls on the top of her fyead, and
wearing a black gown which rustled and
sparkled with sequins.
Peggy Fraser and Elspeth Mackenzie
were together. Veda Manly was a pic-
ture of youth and charm in her long
black velvet coat and muff to match, to
which she had pinned white camellias.
Nancy Hewlett combined a mist-blue
frock with a fuchsia jacket Mrs. Charlie
Lane, who was accompanied by her hus-
band, covered a violet chiffon gown with
a long coat of turquoise satin. Another
couple who enjoyed the concert were the
Tristan Buessts, Mrs. Buesst in black
gown and long black gloves and short
swing-backed coat of persimmon taffeta.
In the Broothorn portrait is Suzanne
Crane, elder daughter of Captain and
Mrs. H. B. Crane, who with her parents
and younger sister Henrietta came to
Australia recently as a result of Captain
Crane’s two years’ appointment as super-
intendent of training at Flinders Naval
Base. Suzanne likes this country and its
climate, which gives her the opportunity
of out-of-doors sports. She is also in-
terested in languages. Her younger sister
is at school at Toorak College.
Accounts have been audited and books
balanced, whereupon the American
Women’s Auxiliary has handed a cheque
for £950, profit of the Golden Gate
Fiesta, to the Latham lady, the president
of the Children’s Hospital. As the size
of the cheque was a reason for rejoicing,
it having overshot the 1938 ball profits
by £3O, it made an excellent excuse for
a party as well as an auxiliary meeting at
Mrs. Wales Signor’s home in Glen-road,
Toorak. Mrs. G. W. Campbell was co-
hostess with Mrs. Signor, and Mrs. Jimmy
Clymer made the official presentation of
the all-important piece of paper. Last
year the American Ball helped consider-
ably in the establishment of a new model-
diet kitchen; this year general expenses
will probably absorb most of the money.
The American Women’s Auxiliary main-
tains a ward of six beds, plus two addi-
tional beds, in the Children’s Hospital,
also a bed in the children’s branch of the
Orthopaedic Hospital at Frankston.
Deputising for Mrs. Bob Menzies,
whom duty called to the side of the Prime
Minister on his journey by air to Sydney,
R. H. Croll opened Dora Wilson’s exhi-
bition of pictures at the Sedon Galleries.
Mr. Croll was only just getting his land
legs, having a few hours previously
stepped off the ship at the end of his
Barrier Reef holiday. He and Mrs. Croll
enjoyed part of the vacation very much,
but not all of it, for, although they have
always thought themselves fair sailors,
they now have grim memories of a cross-
ing between Gladstone and Heron Island.
Among thdse present at the exhibition
was Mrs. Harry Box, who presented to
Miss Wilson the daffodils which deco-
rated the gallery. An absentee was Mrs.
W. R. Sedon, who was married only a
few days previously. Her husband said
he couldn’t manage to persuade her to
appear and “face the music” of meeting
so many strangers on the one afternoon.
Before her marriage Mrs. Sedon was Mrs.
F. Wiley, formerly of Brisbane, but she
also has many friends in Sydney, for she
lived at the Hotel Australia for some
years. Like her husband, she is a keen
contract bridge player.
Miss Wilson, who knows the city of
Melbourne so well from the level of an
artist’s camp-stool, says tljat one can
learn a lot about humanity from that
lowly height. Passers-by, some of whom
look cold and hungry, often offer her
pennies. A well-meaning platinum blonde
in spring was volubly admiring one of
Miss Wilson’s canvases in the making.
She promised to buy some of “them nice
pictures” for Is. 6d. each if the artist
would “hike ’em up some time” to an
address in Richmond.
On a visit to Sydney, when Miss Wil-
son was painting by the waterfront in
Pyrmont, she was invited by a kind-
hearted woman to have a cup of tea in
a cottage near by. Later on a greater
honor was bestowed when the wharf-
laborers greeted her as a comrade, they,
after much deliberation, having decided
that she was one of the world’s workers.
One of Miss Wilson’s very few unpleasant
experiences came from a feminine zealot
who called down upon her head the wrath
of God, fire and brimstone because she
dared to paint on a Sabbath morning a
charming picture of Wesley Church.


4*
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
JAPAN’S ECONOMIC CHALLENGE.
CHAIN STORES.
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING.
MINING NEWS FROM ALL FIELDS.
August Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.. 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Brisbane Show and Some Showmen
Brisbane Show is over again,
and, as usual, a record —first-day attend-
ances doubled in five years. It is like no
other exhibition in the Commonwealth —
perhaps in the world. It is not by any
means the biggest in attendances, but it
usually has the greatest galaxy of
breeders and the best facilities for bringing
them together. It had a cattlemen’s club
on the grounds more than 20 years ago.
Sydney and Melbourne have not achieved
one yet.
Brisbane ring arrangements are ultra-
modern. And displays have been
improving year by year, until now, par-
ticularly in the cattle sections, they are
among the world’s largest.
This year there were more than 1300
dairy cattle entered —more than at Syd-
ney—and, of course, Australia’s own
breeds, the Illawarra Shorthorns, had
pride of place—doubly so because the
best blood from which they are bred
has been Queensland blood for genera-
tions.
Arthur Snell, of S. Australia, who
judged them, remarked: “The best way
I can think of of improving dairy-cattle
breeding in Australia would be to use
Brisbane .Show as a school for breeders.”
He characterised the champion cow as
“the most typical cow of the breed in
Australia —as near the ideal as it is
possible to get.”
Another factor which makes Brisbane
Show different from others is the
breeders. They are a more adven-
turous type. Among the southern
shows, dairy exhibits usually come
from near at hand, and from farms
held by families for the better part of a
century. The Queensland Show tradition
has been largely built up in a little over
a generation, and in a pioneering spirit,
by men who came up from the south and
carved out their herds as they carved
out their farms—from the scrub, so to
speak. Sometimes they started with a few
head of poor cows and a good bull, and
“built up” under conditions which would
make a British or American studbreeder
go pale. They have, with little more than
application and a superb breeding know-
ledge, .turned out herds which in other
parts of the world would be thought pos-
sible only for millionaires.
There is Alex. Hunt up at Maleny, on
the Blackall Range, with cattle-lore bred
into his bone, who used the profits of his
store to breed a superb little stud.
And there is Arthur Pickels. Arthur
came from the South Coast of N.S.W.
before the war, frail and sickly, with
little capital and a handful of choice
stock, bought with knowledge rather than
with money. He went into the almost
virgin Mundubbera scrub country. He
constructed for himself a show team and
made it known by the simple process of
carrying it round from show to show in
a railway truck. Sometimes it meant 20
hours’ travelling, with 20 hours’ solid
grooming, feeding, titivating and the
strain of putting a dozen classes before
a judge to follow.
I have known him arrive so ill at a
showground that he had to be helped
out of the train, and I have known him
go into a ring when it was necessary
for him to use a leaning hand to steady
himself during static moments of the
judging.
Yet his job has given him health. It
is over 20 years since judges were saying
the same about his leading cow as this
year’s judge said about the champion, and
he has a team which would have won
Shorthorn prizes anywhere. To-day no
list of champions in Queensland is com-
plete without some of his blood —this
year’s Brisbane Illawarra reserve cham-
pions originated from his stock, and the
prize lists are thick with the name of his
stud, Blacklands.
But some of the pioneer names are
missing—that of Mr. Burton, of the Red
Bull, for instance. Mr. Burton was a
typical pre-war farmer *with abundant
whiskers. His pride was his bull —a real
Australian Illawarra. Early one morn-
ing, after his habit, Queensland Governor
William MacGregor was inspecting cattle
at a country show. He paused before a
stall and said: “Wull, wull, wull, an’ I
haena beforre sin a, Red Lincoln in the
country, an’ a bonnie fella he is the noo,
a bonnie fella.”
His meditations were interrupted by
an avalanche of whiskers, in which a
large roast chicken seemed to be en-
tangled. “Insulting me bull!” the break-
fasting apparition explained to the placa-
tory officials; “calling me bull a Lin-
coln!” “Shush!” whispered the p.os.
“It’s his Excellency the Governor.”
“Governor, is he?” shouted Mr. Burton.
“Even the King ought to know an Illa-
warra when he sees one! ”
But he, too, might have been excused
his asperity. Forty-eight hours’ toil on
end was nothing to Burton if there was
a blue ribbon waiting.
“Dungeness”: Port Moresby’s “one
o’clock gun” no longer sounds from the
Lands Office verandah to remind citizens
that it is time for —well, whatever one
does about then in Port. It wasn’t really
a gun, but a rifle and blank, and the
practice dated back for many years—
some old hands say to MacGregor days,
or even earlier. It has been replaced
“The alarm-clock's gone crook on us, so I've got im as a substitute."
as a time signal by the whistle from
the powerhouse operated by an electric
clock designed by the engineer in charge.
That modern contraption sounds also at
5 a.m., and 2, 5 and 9 p.m., the last
issue being supposed to warn all natives
who have no passes to get out of the
town area immediately. If its inventor
could add something in the way of a
heartily-applied boot about 10 minutes
later to ensure that proper notice is taken
of the warning by all persons concerned
he would earn the gratitude of white
women.
* * H= *
“X.T.”: Premier Forgan Smith set a
new Queensland record in office without
all the junketing and blather about states-
manship which distinguished Mr.
Stevens’s triumph of political longevity
in N.S.W. Forgan Smith has been
Premier of Queensland longer in one
term than any other and longer in aggre-
gate terms —he has just beaten S. W.
Griffith’s seven years two months 15
days. He holds the long-term record for
leadership of the Labor party, which has
been out of office for only one term in
24 years.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: Little Minister Foil
flew breathlessly to Darwin (N.T.) and
as breathlessly back so that he would be
in time for Brisbane Show. After a brief
glimpse round his Territorian capital, he
recognised that the Territory was isolated
but was sure with sympathetic govern-
ment it could be pushed ahead more
rapidly than in the past; he hoped beef
prices would improve, and he was hopeful
that there would be big mining develop-
ment. The one original remark which
he made was that he regarded the re-
moval of the town business centre —the
Navy is trying to collar the best part of
the business section —with misgiving.
* * * *
“Ching Do”: The climate of Mareeba
(N.Q.) seems to have little effect on that
hardy Parramattan Ted Troughton, who
has been in Queensland a matter of 80
out of his 101 years. The old boy was
racing horses in Central Queensland so
soon as there was a clear space there to
race on. Gold lured him to the North,
and he did a bit of racing in Cairns in
the days before there was a course there
named after his native town —the days
when the prads fought it out in Abbott-
street. Then he went carrying to the
more northerly goldfields and timber-
getting in the fastnesses of the Daintree,
and helped to pioneer the thriving town
of Mossman. A couple of months ago
he saw the two days of the Mareeba
winter race meeting through from end
to end, and turned up as a busy critic at
Mareeba Show. And he says he can still
laugh—-especially at the modern horse-
man, whom he regards as an amateur
beside the Old Hands of his boyhood.
***'«•
“X.T.”: A human echo of William
Lane’s cry for a Utopia was stilled when
Samuel Paynter Rundell died in Cairns,
at 83. A Cousin Jack, he left Cornwall
as a youngster to work at Charters
Towers, then flitted to S’Africa’s diamond
fields, but came back to Australia to
leave with his young wife for Paraguay
with Lane. When the settlement failed
he returned to Queensland and became
an underground manager at Mt. Game .
Chillagoe sent him once more to ->•
America to report on properties in wnic.
it was interested. Most of his later years
were spent running a pub at Stannary
Hills.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: Brisbane housewives are
knitting their brows over what seems to
be an insoluble puzzle. Wheat is quoted
in the local press at round 2s. 3d.
but flour is £l3 a ton, and the Price-
fixing Commissioner has decided that an
extra, jd. for a 21b. loaf will be justified.
The Bread Manufacturers’ Association
says the rise is warranted, “particularly
because thp recent increase in the basic
wage, increase in flour prices and a
general increase in overhead expenses
have made the position of the baker ex-
tremely difficult.” I’ve been thinking of
buying a couple of stones and grinding
my own flour, but I gloomily reflect that
some bureaucrat or another would prob-
ably rise up and declare me a noxious
weed or a prohibited dingo or something.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: For the world’s most
cheerless journal, I nominate the “Malaria
Monthly,” published in Amsterdam.
Cover and paper are yellow, and the
wrapper is decorated with a picture of a
large and gloomy anopheles in a miasmic
swamp. It is strange that Australia is the
least-affected continent. More than 50
per cent, of the United States, nearly all
S. America, all Africa save the southern
parts of the S’African Union, the Sahara
and higher Abyssinia, are plagued with
the disease. From the Himlayas south-
ward all India and Indo-China suffer. A
malaria belt, partly endemic, partly
hyperendemic, runs right across the
centre of Asia and Europe. Italy, south
of, Rome, is all hyperendemic country.
The littoral of Spain and Portugal carries
the anopheles in abundance. Malaria has
killed not merely countless humans but
empires. Professor Reiner Muller esti-
mates that even now there are 800,000,000
malaria sufferers annually, and that the
world’s annual deathrate from the disease
is 3,500,000. Australia, however, has only
a narrow malarial belt which stretches
slightly south of Carpentaria, and the
hyperendemic type is unknown here. One
curious fact is that curative and prophy-
lactic methods are advancing little. De-
spite much-vaunted American panaceas,
the Malaria Commission of the League of
Nations remarks (in 1938) that “so far
no drug reduces fever and clears the
blood of malaria parasites as quickly as
quinine.”
* * * r
“Marrakai”: The adventures of Min-
ister Casey which are being chronicled in
the Darwin press make me wonder
whether the North might not provide
occupations for a few of our discarded
Cabineteers. Mr. C. during his wander-
ings shot two dingoes, and, having made
application to the police, received 15s.
for the scalps. He also took out a license
and shot a buffalo. Astounded on-
lookers marked that Mr. Casey was “a
crack shot.” He just up with his gun
and potted each dingo as it loped along
150 yards away. Seems to me a little
experiment would be worth while to dis-
cover whether many of our honorables
would not be more useful to the country
as dingo-shooters.


Costs less to
cure that
COUGH
with
'heenzo.
the famous money-saving
3 in ONE family remedy for
INFLUENZA
COUGHS—COLDS
PATADDU
LA I /\J\lYn
BRONCHITIS
SORE THROATS
\'>l
v\\ll///
\
SSf-i
is all
you pay for
ONE PINT
of this world’s best
remedy for
CHEST—NOSE
and THROAT
I
m
>;• • •
m
TWINS THRIVED
thanks to
HEENZO
ALL PARENTS SHOULD READ THIS
LETTER FROM THE MOTHER OF THESE
BEAUTIFUL TWINS
22 Janies Crescent,
Gladesville, N.S.W.
The Manager, “Heenzo .**
Dear Sir, —
Enclosed please find a photograph of my twin son and daughter.
Since earliest infancy, whenever they showed signs of a cold, I
have used your “Heenzo” with extraordinary beneficial results.
They are now two years old, and are bonnie babies, thanks to
the help of freedom from colds, etc., due to the use of “Heenzo *
regularly.—Yours in all sincerity,
(Mrs.) Geo. Winch.
Save lots of money by simply, in your own home, adding
a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO to
sweetened water, thus making ONE PINT of the world s
best family remedy, equally good and safe for children
and adults, as a speedy and pleasant cure for chest, nose
and throat ailments.
By taking made-up HEENZO internally you quickly
soothe and banish COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP,
BRONCHITIS and INFLUENZA. Experiments
have proved that the most effective and economical treat-
ment for CATARRH and COLDS IN THE HEAD
is placing a few drops of made-up HEENZO up each
nostril, night and morning. To gain instant relief from
SORE and SMOKERS’ THROATS, gargle with
made-up HEENZO whenever the irritation is felt.
HEENZO, being pure and free from poisons or harsh
drugs, cannot upset the digestion of even the youngest
baby. You can also rely on HEENZO as a safeguard
against catching the ills of winter chills by taking a dose
before venturing out into crowds, or cold, wet and windy-
weather.
HEENZO.
AILMENTS the best costs less


The Most Useful
Radio Book of all
Only 7/6
Imagine it! The circuits of Aus-
tralia’s Standard Receivers with all
relevant data carefully compiled and
indexed for immediate reference.
. Vol. 1 Australian Official Radio
Service Manual (392 pages) contains
1937 circuits, and Vol. 2 (412 pages)
the 1938 circuits. Price of either
volume 7/6 (limp covers) and 10/-
(stiff covers) ; postage Bd. In addition
to the circuits there’s chapter upon
chapter of invaluable radio data.
Australian Official
Radio Service Manual
Obtainable from radio and electrical
wholesalers, booksellers or the
publishers, “The Electrical & Radio
World,” Box 1538-V, G.P.0., Brisbane.
CD
ills
///<
: :
»■ • <
y
Half the
pleasure
of listening is lost when
valves are too weak to
drive out Tone Bogy
RE-VALVE WITH
m \
E
z
Sealed for your protection
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Constant Voltage Power Unit.
There are several schemes for voltage
stabilisation in receivers and other radio
equipment, some using neon or gaseous
regulator valves. The circuit diagram,
from “Television and Short-wave World”
(Eng.), shows a completely new system,
not employing D.C. saturated chokes, gas
discharge tubes or baretters. The equip-
ment is simple, comprising essentially
only a rectifier, two transformers and
condenser. In addition to compensating
for load variations, the scheme provides
a remarkable degree of compensation for
variations in input voltage.
Low percentage ripple in the output
circuit is achieved by the circuit not only
providing constancy of mean voltage, but
also constancy of instantaneous voltage
by conversion of single-phase to three-
phase power at medium and large loads,
and by reproduction of a flat-topped
rectifier input wave at light loads and
open circuit.
There are two transformers and a con-
denser connected in parallel with one of
them. The design is such that at full
load the E.M.F. of one transformer leads
the mains voltage by 45 degrees, thus
producing two transformer voltages at 90
degrees to one another. The secondaries
are connected as shown, and the three
output connections lead to a normal
three-phase bridge rectifier. As the load
is reduced, the phase displacement
diminishes, so that the balanced three-
phase condition is progressively lost. The
mean output can be arranged to fall to
the same extent as the reduction in inter-
nal resistance of the rectifier, thus main-
taining a constant output voltage. Fluc-
tuations of the mains voltages produce
similar compensating effects. Action is
instantaneous. The scheme seems worth
experimental application to short- and
ultra-short-wave receivers.
D.B.K.
Unusual European 56mc. DX
Contacts.
During the last three years amateurs
in the U.S.A. using the 56mc. band have
enjoyed long-distance contacts from May
to the end of July and sometimes later.
In Europe the 56mc. band is now well
populated, and last June several stations
reaped the benefit of their continued
efforts on the band. The “Short-wave
Magazine” for July records the contacts
and details of signals heard.
On June 1 Italian lIIRA heard English
stations GSMP, GSMQ and G6DH be-
tween 1800 and 1900 8.5. T., and on June
13 G6CW and GBJV worked two-way
with IIFA and IISS. Signals were R 8
both ways between 2115 and 2130 B.S.T.
On June 24 IIFA worked with GBKD
at 2005, G2MV at 2020 and G6XM
shortly after. The latter station heard
the French FBAA and Italians II BE and
IISS. G2MV heard an R 6 harmonic
from the commercial transmitter at Addis
Ababa, and G6YL logged telephony
from FBVC and IIIRA, all on the even-
ing of June 24. On the 25th G2MR
worked with Italian IITKM, and G2MV
heard I IRS at 1150 that morning. The
Italians and some unidentified European
’phones were heard by G2XC, G3FA,
G3HW, GW6AA, G6IH, GBNM, and
others. Inside England, a new local
record was established when G2ZV and
G6CW established contact over a distance
of 150 miles.
Listeners played a big part also, R. J.
Lee at Heathfield hearing many Euro-
peans and G2WS at 156 miles. In eight
days, G6CW had thirteen contacts over
the 100-mile mark with six different G
stations. The results obtained are a
tribute to the tenacity of the 56mc. ex-
perimenters concerned, and it is interest-
ing to note that low power made some of
the contacts. G2MR uses only 10 watts
and a simple T.R.F. receiver for recep-
tion.
Inside England, during this “open”
period for 56mc., there were many con-
tacts ranging from 20 miles to 160 miles.
Despite the continued efforts of a few
VKs, Australia is now sadly behind in
world DX records on 56mc., at least so
far as two-way working goes. The in-
stances of one-way reports, however, show
that, if only co-operation had been forth-
coming during the last three years, inter-
state and trans-Tasman two-way contacts
on 56mc. would have been a certainty.
VK2NO was heard several times in
Wellington, M.L., by a listener, and in
July, 1937 was logged in Deniliquin,
N.S.W., by VK2DN ;
distances of 1500 miles
and 380 miles respec-
tively. VKSZU, of
Prospect, S.A., was
logged on 13 / 3 / ’3B by
ZL4DQ in Dunedin,
and this year VK2AKI
in Tar e e, N.S.W.,
using very low power,
was heard one morn-
ing in Sydney by C.
Bambury, a listener.
The only two - way
contacts over the 100-mile range re-
corded in N. S. Wales are between
VK2LZ, 3000 ft. high at Wentworth Falls,
and VK2VU, Singleton, a distance of
105 miles airline. The latter can be con-
sidered as direct path communication
owing to the high elevation of VK2LZ.
In Sydney, the recently-formed u.-h.-f.
section of the W.I.A. is making stout
efforts to co-ordinate increased activity
on 56mc. with advanced apparatus, and
similar work is being done in Victoria.
In the Northern Hemisphere the
majority of DX contacts on 56mc. occur
during early summer, and it is not un-
reasonable to expect similar conditions
in the south. Now is the time to get
equipment of a useful nature on the air
and to show the rest of the world that
Australian experimenters are doing their
share in developing this band.
At one time 28mc. was likewise unex-
plored, and weary years of continued
calling and listening were necessary be-
fore the band came to life. Eventually,
VKs worked with Gs. It is by no means
overoptimistic to look for similar results
on 56mc. Two years ago a listener in
North Wales reported hearing 56mc.
telephony from VK2NO, Sydney, and,
although his account checked accurately
with the log at the transmitting end, the
report was doubted in England. The
thing for VKs to do now is to get on the
air on 56mc. whenever possible ; to use
C.W. calls as much as possible, and to
draw up transmitting schedules in all
States and to stick to them rigorously.
D.B.K. (VK2NO).
Radio Comment.
“Enno”: The 1.4-volt dry-cell valves
are increasingly popular for reasons other
than economy of battery-operation. Chief
radio engineer of a leading Sydney radio
factory informed me that his experience
is that the valves cannot be surpassed for
quietness in operation. Tests in his
laboratory whilst comparing a five-valve
1.4-volt broadcast superhet with a five-
valve A.C. model showed that inter-State
broadcasters could be heard over the
1.4-volt receiver clearly in daylight—
whereas such signals were submerged in
the background of the A.C. set, despite
line filters and noise-reducing aerial on
the latter. Amateur band superhets de-
signed around the “one-fours” should find
favor with amateur operators for that
reason alone.
* * * *
“D.B.K.”: Malcolm Frost, B.B.C.’s
Director of Intelligence, announced
through Empire stations on 5/8/’39 that
the title of the B.B.C.’s publication will be
changed from “Empire Broadcasting” to
“London Calling” as from 21/8/’39. The
new publication will be considerably en-
larged, and editions are to be published
in German and French for listeners
outside the Empire. Annual subscrip-
tion remains the same as for “Empire
Broadcasting.” “London Calling” con-
tains the Empire programmes four and
a half weeks in advance, and reaches
subscribers by airmail. Sub. is 10s. ster-
ling, and address Broadcasting House,
London, Wl.
* * * *
A new law in Canada rules that no new
privately-owned broadcasting station shall
be allowed to erect a transmitter exceed-
ing a power of one kilowatt. On the other
hand, the programme laid down by the
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation is
being completed as quickly as possible.
Two 50-kilowatt transmitters, namely,
CBL, Ontario, and CBF, Quebec, were
opened in 1937 ; another station of the
same power, CBA (Maritime Provinces),
was opened on April 8 last, and CBK
(Prairies) is now ready to work. The
power of CBR (British Columbia) has
been increased to five kilowatts, and it is
hoped to install in the near future five
more stations in the provinces of Ontario
and Quebec.
* * * *
Public hospitals at Broken Hill and
Temora (N.S.W.) are to be fitted with
receiver equipment by A.W.A. A master
receiver will be used in both instances.
The Temora hospital will have four loud-
speakers and 65 pairs of headphones for
bedside use, and Broken Hill hospital
will have 19 loudspeakers and 58 pairs of
headphones.
Amateur Chatter.
Remarkable results are obtained with
an indoor coaxial 56mc. aerial at VK2ZH.
From his location in North Bondi, Syd-
ney, his signal is R 8 in all directions over
long distances. Much trouble has been
taken to ensure that the aerial is resonant
at the exact crystal frequency.
A W 8 found that his aerial current
jumped from .2 ampere to 3 amperes
when he removed the nice metal frame
from his rack-and-panel 75-metre ’phone
transmitter. He states that no coils or
leads were within 4in. of the framework.
A sound argument in favor of wooden
frame assembly.
Bob Wilson, VK2AFS, formerly of
Moree (N.S.W.) and very active on 7mc.
The circuit diagram of a four-valve T.R.F. two-volt valve receiver (No. 801,
B. 16/8/’39) was omitted from the description. The diagram is illustrated here.
’phone during the last year, is now resi-
dent in Sydney, and will be back on the
air when he has settled down.
Interesting figures were revealed in a
recent “QST” article on the input resist-
ance of valves at various frequencies. It
is surprising to note that in this respect
the 6K7 and 6J7 are actually more effi-
cient valves than the 1851, 1852 and 1853
series. In practice, however, the odds are
on the latter valves, as valve gain alters
matters. For the ultra-highs, the acorn
valves are the best proposition, being far
ahead of any other known valves. If
one intends to get the utmost from an
R.F. amplifier in a 56mc. receiver, the
logical choice therefore is either the 954
or 956. The comparative input resist-
ance of various types is as follows:
Input Resistance, Ohms.
Fre-
quency. 954. 6K7,6J7. 1853. 1851, 1852.
7mc.. 4,080,000 220,000 189,000 118,000
14mc.. 1,020,000 71,400 59,000 33,700
28mc.. 255,000 21.000 16,900 9,050
56mc.. 63,700 5,850 4,530 2,360
Tests on 80 metres during daylight
hours show it to be at present superior
to 40 metres for general communication.
Stations 300 miles distant can be worked,
and the absence of QRM is a relief from
the medley on other bands. VK2CI,
Merewether (N.S.W.), has received a
report from Manjimup (W.A.) reporting
his 80-metre ’phone at R 6 at 11 p.m.
E.A.T. VK6’s are seldom heard in the
east on this band, but probably few are
active. During the field day held by Zero
Beat Radio Club on 6/ 8 / ’39 the club’s
portable station signing VK2AEE at
Cheltenham (N.S.W.) was R 9 on ’phone
on 80 metres. Power used was only seven
watts, and VK2GI, of Clarence River,
reported the signal at R 6. An old hand
back on this band is VK2LS, once known
as VK2CR before that call was allocated
to a regional broadcaster.
Further proof that 80 metres is increas-
ingly useful for long-distance contacts,
and particularly for inter-State working,
is shown in a contact by VK2VU, Single-
ton (N.S.W.), with VK6RW in Wagin
(W.A.) on telephony at midnight E.A.T.
on 6/8/’39.


fdg
m WfAK M£N AND WOMtN
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLANO TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
821
GLAND
TONIC
TABLETS
TELL your story
in the WEST
Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth
.. . 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Use., St. George’s Tee.,
The AIRCRAFT
INDUSTRY says:—
“There is a demand for A.E.S.
Graduates.”
This is the ONLY School providing
INDIVIDUAL
INSTRUCTION
with PRACTICAL TRAINING on
IN-LINE and MODERN RADIAL
ENGINES
Students are trained to fill responsible
positions with a course including:
AIRCRAFT ENGINE OVERHAUL
AIRCRAFT METAL WORK
AIRCRAFT DRAFTING
AIRCRAFT AND ENGINE
MAINTENANCE
Only Students who, on graduation, Will
be an asset to themselves, the Aircraft
Industry and the School are enrolled.
VVe have Government Licensed Engineers
of high repute as instructors.
Our Aero. Engine Training Equipment
is more comprehensive than in any
other school in Australia.
A.E.S. graduates have been placed
within the Aircraft Industry inside our
first year of operations.
Write or call on
THE AERONAUTICAL
ENGINEERING SCHOOL,
30 Cleland Street, Mascot, N.S.W.
THE FLYING COLUMN
G.B. to Australia, 300 m.p.h.
Though the United States and Ger-
many were first in the field with luxury
commercial machines, Britain has usually
led the way with inventions which have
made for progress and development of
the flying industry.
De Havillands, for instance, had an
experimental air-service stratosphere
’plane as far back as 1920. Slotted wings
and feathered propellers had been ex-
perimented with for years in England
before foreigners thrust them suddenly
upon the world. Most of the initial work
with special durable aluminiums was
done in England; so was most of the
engine development which made high
speeds and low weight-to-power ratio
possible. Geodetic construction is an
English invention which is revolution-
ising building, load factor and range of
flying machines. The multi-engined
machine and flying-boats as a commer-
cial standard were other English inno-
vations.
The beginnings of modern British avia-
tion came with the expansion of Im-
perial routes. On its Indian run —the
first of the long ones overseas—lmperial
Airways introduced heavy, slow passen-
ger and mail ’planes, economical to fly
and with a high safety factor. It has
enabled the growth of highly-trained
technical and flying staffs, which when
the time came were able to meet the com-
petition of fast modern and American
machines without undue strain.
The old Heracles, of the I.A. cross-
Channel service, began flying on Sep-
tember 11, 1931. She has just been taken
off the route, has covered 1,300,000 miles
and carried 95,000 passengers without
mishap. Alongside her are flying the
latest Ensigns and Frobishers, which are
equal in every way to the latest Ameri-
can commercial ’planes and German Con-
dors, and which have covered the 200
miles to Brussels with a full load in 48
minutes.
While the four-engined, nine-passenger
D.H.B6’s, which initiated the London-
Australia run in 1934, are still in exten-
sive operation, the long-distance services
are about to be served with “G”-class
Short seaplanes—32-tonners, with four
engines, which develop 5500 h.p., can
carry a 12-ton load (160 11-stone pas-
sengers) over stages of 1000 miles and fly
3200 miles non-stop ; on 70 per cent,
engine power they can cruise at 180
m.p.h. Beside them are being built three
31-ton landplanes, the 14/38’s. These
are designed for fast, long-stage journeys
on the London-Sydney run —“four stops
to Sydney.” Their safe working range
is 2000 miles, but they can fly non-stop
with load of 14 to 18 passengers for 3000
miles. Their maximum speed at 5000
feet will be about 280 m.p.h., and their
cruising speed 250 m.p.h.
The Air Ministry also has decided
that the time has come to con-
sider the separation of mail and
passenger carriage, so one experimen-
tal Short 31-tonner is being constructed
chiefly to carry mail. Six passengers will
live in a sealed cabin in which the air
is kept at low density at 25,000 feet, the
normal flying height. Cruising speed
will be 280 m.p.h. and maximum
speed 330 m.p.h. The engines will be
sleeve-valved, as in other new Short boats
A SEVERSKY DESIGN FOR A SUPER-CLIPPER.
It is designed to carry a pay-load of 43,000 pounds for a range of 5000 miles of
a minimum cruising speed of 250 m.p.h., 120 passengers and a crew of 16. Wing
span is 250 feet, and there are eight liquid-cooled engines, each rated at 2000
h.p., developing 2300 h.p. for take-off.
Flying time to Sydney from London
will normally be about 48 hours.
This machine could bring Perth and
Melbourne within seven hours’ flight of
each other. It is, however, far from the
ultimate of what can be achieved. At
least three companies—including Napier
in Britain and Allison in U.S.A. —are
already operating 24-cylinder “X” type
single engines of over 2000 h.p. When
power plants of that type come into use
there is nothing to prevent cruising speeds
of over 300 m.p.h. in heavy-passenger and
mail machines flying in the stratosphere
without interruption from the weather.
AILERON.
“Aren-As 5 ’: The Cygnet, produced
by General Aircraft Co., and demon-
strated at Hanworth, Middlesex, is ex-
pected to reduce training time in the Civil
Air Guard by at least half. Outstanding
feature is the tricycle undercart, by which
the machine, when on the ground, rests
"Cripes, it Was a lucky day for us when Dave joined the Air Force!"
at flying position, with the nose on a
wheel under the motor. The machine
drives along the ground like an auto-
mobile. With speed increased to 50
m.p.h. and the stick eased back, the
Cygnet takes the air without any swing
such as is experienced with ordinary air-
craft, and continues to fly straight at any
throttle setting. It is one of the first
British aeroplanes to be fitted with double
rudders and fins, and is
the only British all-
metal, stressed-skin light
aeroplane. Motor is
rated at 130 h.p.; it
carries two passengers
at 135 m.p.h., and has
a range of 600 miles.
* *
“Aileron”: Britain is
now building 1000 war-
planes per month, a
rate which no other
country is likely to be
able to exceed effec-
tively. With later de-
velopments in speed
every new machine
built adds to pilot prob-
lems. About one man
in ten fit for the R.F.C.
in the last war can be
expected to have ade-
quate physical equip-
ment to handle some-
thing which hurtles along at from 300
to 400—and before long at 500 —m.p.h.
# * * He
“D.8.K.”: Saw a reference to the
bombing of Constantinople by. the
H.P.O/400, prototype of all heavy
bombers. A squadron in which I was
armorer did much more damage to
Constantinople in 1918 with flights of
DH9’s. It was C squadron, based at
Mudros, and numbered J. W. B. Grig-
son, now Wing Commander in India,
and O. R. Gayford, who commanded
the recent flight of Vickers-Wellesleys to
Australia, among its pilots. If my
memory serves, the H.P.O/400 mentioned
made a forced landing late in 1917 in
the sea somewhere off Nagara ; the crew
swam ashore and dried off in the sun
until taken prisoners by a Turkish patrol.
We didn’t have it all our own way at
Mudros, for two nights before the armis-
tice two Turkish ’planes blew sky-high
a hangar at the seaplane base in which
were two Shorts ready bombed-up for
a raid on Constantinople. The raiders
flew straight down the beam of a search-
light, circled at about 300 ft., and
dropped their pills accurately. The
observers waved their hands derisively
as they made off in a splatter of archie
and Vickers fire from below.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Civil Aviation Aerodrome
control officers are agitating for better
conditions. At Rose Bay, Sydney, the
officer is a naval commander known for
his exploration work, and joint pro-
ducer of one of the finest section maps
ever made in Australia —that of the
Mackay Expedition in Centralia. He is
called on to control the movements of
the largest aircraft which come to Aus-
tralia. The bay in which these vessels
anchor is at times filled with motor-boats
and yachts, moored and unmoored, but
his powers to deal with craft which dis-
obey orders have never been defined.
There is no radio beacon. Salary? Oh,
yes—£6 a week. Civil Aviation draughts-
men average £420 a year, against an aver-
age of £3BB for control officers. The dif-
ference between the salaries of aerodrome
caretaker groundsmen and highly-trained
control officers is often less than £1 per
week. As senior aircraft inspectors get
only £5OO a year, the N.S.W. District
Superintendent of Aviation £598 and the
Commonwealth Superintendent of Aero-
dromes £694, or less than the poorest-
paid senior mail pilot on the inter-
capital services, it is evident that this is
one avenue in which Government expen-
diture is not lavish.
* JH * *
“A 42”: The latest Moth Minor to
land in Australia is something remark-
able in the light ’plane field —a low-
wing two-seater. Fully aerobatic, it is
fitted with a 90-h.p. engine. Top speed
is 118 m.p.h.; petrol costs about
2d. per mile. The De Havilland Co.
intends making 12 machines of the same
type at Mascot.


FIFTY YEARS AGO
AUSTRALIAN LIFE IN 1889, AS REFLECTED IN AUGUST
NUMBERS OF “THE BULLETIN,” WITH 1939 ADDITIONS.
/] VISITOR to Australia fifty years
ago was David Christie Murray,
| the novelist. His impressions
were favorable; among other
things, he wrote that “Australians
have all the characteristics of the Eng-
lishman in them, but slightly accentuated
and, I dare say, for good—certainly not
for evil. They are bigger and sturdier
WILLIAM CHARLES WINDEYER.
N.S.W. Attorney-General and Judge, and
the son and father of eminent barristers.
men, but, best of all, they have that
bluff frankness and open-hearted wel-
come in all their greetings and in all
their doings which mark the Englishman
above every other race in the world.”
John Masefield formed much the same
opinions in Gallipoli in 1915, and did
not alter them after acquiring a more
general knowledge of Australians and
Australia in 1935.
Before Christie Murray departed from
London Australians in that city enter-
tained him at a dinner. Among them
were Haddon Chambers, the playwright,;
Dr. Caffyn, now perhaps forgotten, but
writer of a novel, Miss Milne and I,
that had a considerable sale; Brennan,
inventor of the torpedo named after him,
and Henniker Heaton, sometime town
clerk (of Parramatta), Sydney journalist,
compiler of the Australian Dictionary
of Dates, M.P. for Canterbury (Eng-
land), and father of penny postage.
Murray, it was said,-gained his liter-
ary experience as police-court reporter
and his knowledge of life’s drama as a.
homeless, hungry roamer in London
streets.
The Bulletin on Murray as a plat-
form man:
Mr. David Christie Murray has lectured at
Melbourne Town Hall with sufficient success to
justify him in being there, and without enough
results to justify him« in doing it again for the
next century. He has lots of heavily-entertain-
ing things to say, and he lets them off with due
solemnity. As a speaker, Mr. Murray reminds
one of the sexton ringing the village bell when
the evening sun is low or the sad sea waves
are delivering a sermon.
He is an earnest, prematurely-old man cast
somewhat in the -Wilkie Collins mould. But
for his experiences in the army and as a war-
correspondent, he might have been a modest
Republican with a nice taste in dynamite. As
it is, Christie Murray worships the memory of
John Bright, and has reluctantly > fallen away
from Gladstone since he took > up with Home
Rule. This is particularly harrowing to both
parties. The dramatic force of many-passages
in Mr. Murray’s novels is apparent in his best
platform bits, and he shows a good turn for
mimicry. Yet his own innate sense of humor is
no keener than a flatiron. He cannot knock
one joke out of his stonebroke experiences,
when he slept on the Thames Embankment and
victualled free at drinking-fountains. He merely
thanks heaven that he can now put himself
outside a pound of steak whenever the spirit
moves him.
This notice concludes right here with the
Doxology.
But Murray “told a really funny story
in the course of that first lecture in
Melbourne. It was an unpremeditated
joke, and he never saw it himself. The
audience being mostly Scottish, ye ken,
only laid hold of it in rare instances, yet
the jest stuck out far enough, and the
moral dangled from its extremest point.
Murray had, as lie explained, just left the
gorgeous mahogany dinner table of
Speaker Davies. Duncan Gillies, Macßain
and other colossal intellects were of the
party. ‘Mr. Gillies asked me,’ said the
lecturer, ‘my opinion of Mr. Gladstone,
and from the general tone prevailing at
the table I gathered that Gladstone was
regarded in Australia as an extinct vol-
cano.’ What a many-sided bit of humor!
Davies, Gillies and Macßain smiling in
pity when they spoke of the Grand Old
Man, while the sober-going Mr. Murray
accepted their Tory cackle as an expres-
sion of public opinion. Put not your
trust in ‘representative men,’ Mr.
Murray, or you will soon come to the
conclusion that Australia is a land flow-
ing with ignorance and grovel!”
In the same month of August three
years later the Extinct Volcano formed
his fourth Ministry.
On July 25, 1889, Gladstone celebrated
his golden wedding. Somebody mentioned
the fact to the Shah of Persia, who was
then visiting Britain. “Ah,” said Nasr-
ed-Din, evidently thinking of his well-
stocked harem at Teheran, “it is better
to live with one wife for fifty years than
with fifty wives for one year.”
Those were prosperous days for novel-
ists, and Australia was represented among
the good-sellers by Fergus Hume, author
of The Mystery of a Hansom Cab, and
Mrs. Campbell Praed. In August, 1889,
Mrs. Campbell Praed was'collaborating
with Justin McCarthy, M.P., in the
authorship of a book on picturesque
aspects of London life. An edition de
luxe was published, with illustrations by
Mortimer Menpes, the South Australian.
It was a literary age altogether. Poets
commanded an attention they never get
nowadays. London was discussing the
quarrel between Fitzgerald, the trans-
lator of Omar, and Browning, and The
Bulletin of August 31, published
the choicest bits, forgotten nowadays.
In one of Edward Fitzgerald’s Letters,
published under that title, the following
passage occurred:
Mrs: Browning’s 'death is rather a relief
to me, I must say; no more “Aurora
Leighs,” thank God! A woman of real
genius, I know; but what is the upshot of
it all? She and her sex had better mind
the kitchen.
Browning replied in verse in the
“Athenaeum”: — - .. .
TO EDWARD FITZGERALD.
I chanced upon a new book yesterday;
I opened it, 'and, where my finger lay " ; ~
’Twixt page and uncut page, these words I
read— , V . " . ' .
Some -six or seven at most—and learned }
- thereby : I ; f .. ;'
That you," Fitzgerald, whpm-by ear and .eye r
She never knew,- thank' ,G6d ,-ihy '.wife, is
dead. - ' . • *-
Ay dead! ' And were yourself alive, good •
Fitz, , „ . •••
How' to return you" thanks would; task,my '
wits: •• v '• 4
Kicking you seems the'common,, lot of .
curs— ' !
While more appropriate greeting lends you
grace:
Surely to spit-there glorifies! your face- —
, Spitting—from lips once sanctified by hers.
Cabs have gone from Melbourne and
cable trams are going. Fifty years ago
there were not only cabs by the hundred
but a cabmen’s organisation. The death
of George Boanas, secretary of the Mel-
bourne Cabmen’s Union, is recorded in
B. 24/8/’B9; “he was followed to his
grave by a line of cabs about a mile long.
A thoroughly useful man, he was not one
of those who merely work for wages. He
had a lynx eye for the cabmen’s interest,
and did more than anyone else to. weld
them into,.the sort of;union they had.”
And they needed his championship, for
“Panton and co.” (Panton was the city
magistrate) “sat heavily on the cabbies,”
some of whom were accused of being
corrupters of golden— not yet flaming—
youth.
Melbourne had a Clapp as well as cabs.
“Riding in a Melbourne tramcar you”
might “see Clapp paying his 3d. He”
BENJAMIN BENJAMIN .
Mayor of Melbourne, 1887-88 and 1888-
89. He was-knighted during his second
term—the first. Melbourne Mayor to get
a knighthood
was; “the company’s manager, getting
£3OOO. a year, -as Speight, the head
ofj all ' the . Victorian'' railways.' He was.
promised £5OOO ,for an : early rise when
he came,, but the Windsor railway acci-
dent stopped it; and now there have been a
lot more. Clapp manages the trams more
satisfactorily, though they are so horribly
dangerous, and the conductors expect
every minute to have to pull out their
printed books of forms of inquiry tor
witnesses of accidents.” These “horribly
dangerous” caravans were cable trams!
Clapp was described as “one of Mel-
bourne’s level-headed men. He was
mixed up somehow in the old concern
of Cobb and Co., which furnished Aus-
tralia with coaches. The cabs ran every
omnibus off the road in Melbourne by
the year 1869. Clapp and his partners
boldly started the Richmond line of
buses, the pioneers of all the others apd
of the tramways. The whole job is still
a gorgeous monopoly, like the atrocious
Melbourne gas.”
A son of that Clapp was one of
Speight’s successors as Chairman of the
Victorian Railway Commissioners, and,
not too old at 64, has gone into the air-
craft-manufacturing business. Speight sued
David Syme, of the “Age,” which had
flayed his administration, in a memorable
action which ruined him. Friends (Syme
helping surreptitiously) helped him to
migrate to Westralia, where for a time he
became a politician—M.L.A. for North
Perth. He was fated never to return to
railway management. .
Amongst the men who lost a job and
the ancient title of alderman in Mel-
bourne by the operation of the new law
abolishing the office was ex-Lord Mayor
Stephen Morell, whose years of municipal
service, fell just short of . 40. He has. a
knighthood and a Spanish decoration,
arid is a director of Carlton and United
Breweries. Frank Stapley, the father of
the City Council and also of Melbourne’s
parks and gardens (he has seen the
amount spent,on their maintenance rise
from: £lOOO p.a. to £100,000), has had
38 years. of it. E. C. Treadwell and
G. H. C. Crespin wore the aldermanic
chain without, having to contest an elec-
tion for 28 and 20 years respectively.
C. F. Carden and J. M. Lewis were the
babies of.the body.
Dead in Adelaide at 72, George Lind-
say, who played a part in Australian
exploration. As a lad of .18 he accom-
panied David'Lindsay across Australia
from sbuth to north to survey the stations
on the Barkly Tableland. The party
attempted to take a short cut through
what has since been christened the
Simpson Desert and had to turn back
half-way, having a tough fight to reach
water again before their camels collapsed.
Later George Lindsay worked as a stock-
man on Brunette Downs, Thylungra and
Keerongooloo cattle stations, filling in
time with opal gouging and droving. He
was a member of the Elder expedition,
prospected in the north-west of West-
ralia, and in company with David Lind-
say, Joe Tregear and Jim O’Neil took
the first mob of camels across the
Nullarbor from S.A. When the rush to
Coolgardie-started he found a couple of
decent shows. Sold both, but later lost
most of his money backing mining ven-
tures. He joined the Adelaide Tram-
ways Trust as comptroller of stores in
1908 and held the job until he retired
a. few years ago.
CALLED FROM THE BAR.
(Note the 1889 saloon-bar fashions .)


Sts
LYS
ft
PROor
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
M
m
x>
»%S
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Stock in South Australia.
“J. Want”: S'. Australia made big
strides last year with its sheep despite
the season. The previous year’s census
showed a record of 8,904,000 head ; last
year there were 9,936,000 head. The
lamb marking was over 3,000,000 against
2,476,000 the year before, and this year,
including spring breeding, the number of
ewes put to ram will probably come
close to 4,500,000.
The shearing covered about 9,950,000
head, and the clip rose by 13,452,0001 b.
to 88,345,0001 b. Low prices —9. Id.
against 11.28 d. the year before—brought
the return from wool down from
£4,070,000 to £3,800,000. The increases
in yield were distributed over every
woolgrowing division of the State, and,
except in the upper north, where there
was a slight decline, the average weight
per fleece showed an advance.
It says something for the quality of
S. Australian sheep that average weight
of fleece is 8.891 b. In N.S.W. it has not
been above 8.31 b. since 1932-3. The
Queensland cut probably averages 7.51 b.
this year, and in a good year may run
to 81b.
There is a growing variety of English
breeds in the southern State, and their
quality is attested by the eagerness with
which S’African buyers come after them.
Cattle showed a slight decrease to
318,000 ; and there are only 71,000 pigs.
The pig industry is one to which S. Aus-
tralians might devote more attention. If
they could do as well with it as they have
with lambs the industry would become
a big asset.
Sheep-classing Hints.
“Sheepo”: “Ghanam’s” advice (B.
2/8/’39) is good, but his method can be
simplified for the smaller graziers.
As each sheep is being shorn, inspect
for age, constitution, frame and wool
covering. Any ewe not up to stand-
ard can be raddled on the face. Draft
off culls before the shorn sheep are
turnea bush.
Barren ewes or those constitutionally
weak or with narrow and wrinkly
crutches are not worth keeping even
though they may cut a good fleece. Wool
should not be the chief consideration.
Fix a standard, combining wool covering
with good breeding features and cull any-
thing below it. Don’t breed from the
culls under any consideration ; get rid of
them.
If classing is carried out in the yards
a lot of time will be saved if the rear
portion of the ewe is inspected first. It’s
not much good looking at the good
points first; they always show out. Look
at the spot where weakness is likely to
be apparent and mark as culls all
“breechy” ewes and any narrow or
wrinkly in the crutch. The latter will be
the first to attract blowflies.
More Self-help—More Vets.
“Valerin”: Long-continued grazing of
country is presenting stockowners, par-
ticularly sheepmen, with some pretty
problems.
The increase of parasitic diseases is
due mainly to mineral deficiency in soils
and reduced nutritional value of native
grasses and herbage which breaks down
the disease resistance of stock. Top-
dressing, pasture improvement, drenches,
licks and tonics have in some cases merely
intensified the trouble.
Expert advice is urgently needed.
Research stations are doing excellent
work, but in country areas trained ob-
servers are few and far between, so it is
hopeless to expect them to keep tab on
outbreaks of disease.
What is needed for a beginning is the
appointment of a trained veterinarian to
every P.P. Board or local pastoral or
agricultural supervisory body. A slight
increase in rates would provide the neces-
sary funds. Graziers must forget the
“natural-loss” cry and get on to the job
themselves.
Zebus in America.
“Mookau”: There is considerable dif-
ference of opinion as to the value of the
zebu as a beef animal. Great progress
has been made in the last few years in
the United States with the development
of the mixed types, and in S. America,
“I once noo an ol girl who could tell y'r forchun by readin' the lines on yr feet."
f f Brazil where' the zebu ; s
a f ready common, Indian cattle have many
advoc ’ les one o£ them is an Austra-
]j an p H Finch of Estancia.Garruchos,
{ the’ province ’of Corrientes, now in
Amtralia
' h converted by the
on the breeds
Texa where fi wodd’f greatest
’’J d eSablshbd by J D
Brahman stud was esraoiisneu oy j. jj,
Hudgins at. Hungerford. Hudgins has 50
herds which over a number of years have
been bred to uniformity. Bulls are sold
throughout the southern cattle areas of
U.S.A., and are bred both with Here-
fords and Shorthorns—the ideal appears
to be a mixture of five-eighths Shorthorn
with three-eighths Brahman, achieved by
gradual breeding up. From a proper
combination of blood, it is quite usual
to turn out 12-month steers which turn
the scale at 12001 b. From photographs
there seems to be no doubt about the size
and quality and conformation, of this
stock, and' Finch is enthusiastic about
their hardiness and ability to produce
persistence of type.
Many.years ago the United States Agri-
cultural Department made exhaustive
tests of zebus and: zebu crosses. On a
fori an‘rtiri° f we“ht a wlT)' ‘shorthorn
14851 b), Brahman-Shorthorn, first genera-
tion (5841 b) and second generation
(5471 b) wefe used. Fed on hay, grain
and cottonseed, the Herefords made a
gain of 2331 b., the Shorthorns 2561 b.,
the first- and second-cross Brahmans
2261 b. each. But the first-generation
Brahman mixture ate 2001 b. more grain
per 1001 b. gain than the pure Shorthorns
-7641 b. against 5611 b.-and 1551 b.
cottonseed cake against 1201 b. eaten by
the pure Shorthorns. Also, they con-
sumed 1631 b. of hay against 1041 b. by
t ,«,lb Sh ga , n°[„ nS weighr P “
A second experiment gave much the
cump r PC „Ik-_
s ‘
In the last 30 days of the second yeai ,
the non-Brahmans excelled the part-Brah-
mans in average daily gains by 24 per
cent.; whereas during the following year,
for the entire feeding period, the corre-
sponding gain was. less than 3 per cent.
On the whole, the daily gains of the Here-
fords and Shorthorns were moderately
greater than those of the Brahman cross-
breeds.
The summing-up of the department
was that the pure British breeds excelled
moderately in daily gain of weight,
economical use of concentrates and ,ap : .
praised value of carcasses per 1001 b. The
mixed breeds showed marked superiority
in dressed weight and a very slight superi-
ority in regard to shrinkage between feed
lot and market. And
The experiments (over three years) indi-
cate that as a rule steers of Brahman
breeding wil not gain weight so rapidly in
feed lots during a long feeding period as
Herefords and Shorthorns,
The question to an Australian is
primarily one of suiting the British
market, and particularly the chilled
market. When I see a signed statement
by the authorities at Smithfield market
that the British buyer prefers zebu car-
casses to others I’ll be all for them. Till
then, the introduction of a humped breed
seems merely a menace to existing export
standards,
*
Beef “New Caledonia.
Bulago . Aftei a long depression
Ihe cattle industry in New Caledonia is
getting on its feet again. The island, 250
miles long by about 30 miles wide car-
■'« about 100,000 head. Most herds
show a mixture of breeds, and colors
are wash y- ,AH ploughing and heavy
draught work is done by bullocks,
, The old Limousin breed is still in evi-
dence ,r, spite of Shorthorn, Devon and
Hereford imports. The Devon does well
the mountainous country, but has no
been persevered with. Herefords don t
SS paVic^
cellent results have been obtained from
g° od IHawarra bulls, which have Im-
proved milking quality enormously.
Some time ago an Aberdeen-Angus
. ® u , r u . ® lr
bull was imported, but most ot his stock
developed t.b. and were condemned.
As a result of that unfortunate experi-
ence no one in New Caledonia will look
at anything resembling a black poll.
Actually, there is very little disease
among cattle. Local butchers take most
of the bullocks, and there is a canning
works at Ouaco on the n.-w. coast. The
chain system is in use, Javanese labor
being employed, and the standard of
cleanliness is even higher than in many
similar works in Australia. Only one
beast in a run of 1500 killed under
veterinary inspection was condemned,
and that for t.b. Occasional losses are
caused by “circling disease,” which occurs
only on the east coast, and a sickness


AFTER-STOCKTAKING
BARGAINS
Box Calf OXFORDS
29/6
REDUCED
TO
22/6
1»
8144
Good quality selected Black Box Calf Oxford Shoes now selling at 22/6.
Made with a broad round toe and strong welted sole. Stocked in full and
half sizes.
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
nr
or P
-
FIRST
STEPS
A CHILD taking its first steps moves carefully to avoid
failing. This is one of life's earliest lessons —-to
undertake new ventures cautiously.
A man or woman investing for the first time must move
with the same care and caution. In the investment world
all is not gold that glitters. A safe, first investment is one
which offers sound security with reasonable returns on the
money invested.
To the person making first steps*in investment, an interest-
bearing Fixed Deposit in the Rural Bank is highly recom-
mended. The security is unquestioned and current bank-
ing rates of interest are paid on sums of from £5 upwards
deposited for 3,6, 12 or 24 months. The investment is
easy to make in the first instance and requires no atten-
tion afterwards.
Fixed Deposits may be made at all branches of the Rural
Bank. Also, you may open a Current Account which
enables you to make payments conveniently by cheque.
RuOtaLßank
OF nE UU SOUTH UJ AIE S .
Head Office: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
The Rural Bank is YOUR Bank —Serving you—Serving
the State.
iTurfy-alleZz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
WOOL GROWERS!
Read what the “Wool Record & Textile World' '*
dated 6th April says about the London March Sales
“It is obvious that those who disposed of their
wools in London during the last Series, whether
ordinary topmaking greasy fleece, or special types
of scoureds, have no reason to be disappointed with
the proceeds in comparison with what they would
have obtained in any other selling centre in the
world.”
CONSIGN THROUGH YOUR USUAL BANK OR AGENT
THE ASSOCIATED LONDON
SELLING WOOL BROKERS
Balme & Thomas
Buxton, Ronald, Du Croz & Co.
Hughes, Willans, Irwell & Co.
Jacomb Hoare & Co.
Schwartze Buchanan & Co.
Windeler & Co.
which affects certain animals under
droving conditions but from which they
recover if spelled.
The cattle industry of New Caledonia
is capable of considerable development.
At present most properties are overrun
with lantana and guava scrub, beef prices
have been ridiculously low and the cattle-
men are not organised. Given another
year or two of good markets there should
be a demand for bulls which should
benefit Australian breeders.
Wheats in S.A.
“A.A.D.”: The Victorian-bred wheat
Ranee is the most extensively grown
variety in S. Australia; last season it
occupied 773,647 acres, or 23.13 p.c. of
the 3,344,264 acres sown. A good yield-
ing weak-flour wheat, susceptible to flag
smut and to stem rust, it is recommended
in N.S.W. only for south-western
Riverina.
Of the nine leading varieties in S.A.,
which represent 76.9 p.c. of the total
area, eight are of weak-flour class, Dun-
dee (medium hard) being fifth in order
of popularity. Two Westralians, Nabawa
and Bencubbin, rank second and third
with 330,090 acres and 293,198 acres re-
spectively. Then follow Sword, 292,073
acres; Dundee, 276,468 acres; Waratah,
176,844 acres; Gluyas, 168,931 acres;
Ford, 131,468 acres ; and Ghurka, 129,081
acres.
The only Farrer variety listed is
Florence (medium strong), which is six-
teenth in order with 34,172 acres. In
N.S.W. it has been relegated to green
fodder and hay purposes in coastal dis-
tricts.
It is surprising to see Ford, produced
at Roseworthy College (S.A.) in 1916, so
low on the list in its own State. Ten
years ago it was in the lead, while in
that period it has advanced to premier
place in N.S.W., occupying nearly a mil-
lion acres. >
In the U.K. market this year South
Australian wheat has ranked second to
N.S.W. in quality and price, Westralia
and Victoria following in trade prefer-
ence.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bovis”: For fluke in cattle try 2 c.c.
to 4 c.c. of carbon tet. in 10 c.c. of liquid
paraffin, repeated after about three weeks.
An alternative is 2dr. alloin, ldr. calo-
mel, two tablespoons of treacle and one
pint warm water. If there is no im-
provement in two months destroy the
animal.
“H.F.S.”: Try this as a rough test to
determine whether or no a cow is in
calf: Take a clean glass of rain water
and stand in steady position. Then draw
milk from the cow on to your finger
and allow a drop to fall into the water.
If the milk goes down to the bottom of
the glass in practically one piece, she is
in calf. If the milk separates and looks
cloudy in the water she is not pregnant.
“Booraby”: The grass-tick or cudgeree
is regarded in some places as a worse
pest than the scrub- or bottle-tick. It is
very small, but appears in great numbers
like mites, and fastens on to humans,
animals and chickens. I have known
whole clutches of fledged chickens to die
from their attacks. A few of the young
fowls should be caught from time to
time in infested localities and examined
under the wings. Kerosene should be
applied after any ticks have been pulled
out. The pest is common in the N.S.W.
north-eastern districts, and seems to be
more partial to farm weeds than open
grass country. The best remedy is to
burn its harbors, making a clean sweep
of weeds, grass and ferns.
“Wandi”: Efforts have been made re-
cently to have the wild radish declared a
noxious weed, but evidence as to its
fodder value has outweighed other con-
siderations. On the N.S.W. northern
rivers, we knew it as redweed. Though
a nuisance on cultivated lands, its lus-
cious green leaves make splendid pig
feed. I have known pigs to be almost
solely fed on it for weeks at a time. It
was also often used by farmers as a
vegetable.
“Uramao”: It is proposed to com-
memorate the evolution of Corrie-
dales in Maoriland by erecting a
memorial on the highway to Corriedale
Estate, about a dozen miles inland from
Oamaru, where Thomas Little, a shep-
herd lad from Scotland on Dr. Webster’s
estate, combined the best qualities of
Homeland sheep by inbreeding to suit
M.L. conditions. In the late’sixties Thomas
Little crossed the merino with Long-
wools, and succeeded in maintaining an
inbred half-bred type without reverting
to either the merino or Longwool. For
15 years a controversy raged concerning
the name, the Australian and N.Z. Land
Co. sticking out for “Southern Cross,” but
eventually the title of the estate, “Corrie-
dale” (named after the Scottish estate),
was recognised.
“J.E.8.”: The Australian Cattle Coun-
cil has appealed to the Agricultural Coun-
cil for £4OOO a year for research into
cattle diseases. • It is estimated that the
annual loss from mastitis and contagious
abortion is £3,000,000 p.a. It might first
be worth asking what the six State Agri-
cultural Departments are doing towards
eliminating the diseases.
“Shorthorn”: The destruction of old
Mt. Noorat homestead, Terang (Vic.),
wipes out one of the most spacious pas-
toral homes in the Commonwealth. The
old bluestone palace has walls 18in. thick,
the rooms are about 20ft. high and there
are 38 of them. The place was built in
the days of the great Shorthorn boom in
’7B by Neil Black, who was among Aus-
tralia’s Shorthorn pioneers. He came out
as a partner of W. E. Gladstone to take
up land under grant in Victoria in 1842,
and many a prime line of reds and roans
is descended from his cattle. And many
a young breeder learnt his lesson from
him, among them A. J. Simpson, to-day
the acknowledged Nestor of the Shorthorns
in Australia, whose breeding changed the
faces of all Australian beef show-rings
before the war.
“Hog”: For the year ended June 10,
1939, the Queensland Co-operative Bacon
Assoc., Ltd., treated 56,930 pigs. The
weekly average was 1905 pigs, returning
to suppliers 5.52 d. a pound. Trade with
the East is expanding, but the U.K.
market has been chary, Londoners being
stand-offish with overfat frozen pork.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
Treatment wanted for young sheep scouring ?
The green shoots entice them, and the sheep
become weak. —43l4.
Probably it is a case of hairworms. Affected
sheep lose condition and exhibit a dark green
to almost black diarrhoea. A diagnosis may be
made by killing an affected sheep and ex-
amining the stomach and intestines for the
presence of these worms. Drench with blue-
stone lib., nicotine sulph. (Blackleaf 40) 16 fl. oz.,
water three gallons. Dissolve the bluestone in
hot water, add the Blackleaf 40. Doses are:
Grown sheep loz., two-tooth foz., 6-12 months
loz., under six months loz. Get in touch with
the local stock inspector for diagnosis.
* * * *
Who introduced the Cactoblastis into Queens-
land ?— 4326.
Cactoblastis cactorum was brought to .Aus-
tralia by members of a travelling commission
in 1914. The consignment died out subse-
quently. Further consignments were introduced
from overseas in 1925 by A. P. Dodd,
Officer-in-Charge, Prickly Pear Board, Brisbane.
* * * *
(1) Can you suggest any form or methods
of preventing wilt in tomatoes just fruiting?
(2) What does prepared lime and sulphur pre-
vent when sprinkled on the plants? (3) My
Ponderosa plants have curled leaves, and the
veins in the leaves are red. What causes this,
and how can I cure it? (4) The best way
to make manure water for tomatoes from cow
manure; what strength should it be? —4305.
(1) There are three wilt diseases affecting
tomatoes. Once a plant becomes attacked by
any one of these there is no treatment worth
while. (2) Lime-sulphur spray is used for the
control of a number of different diseases,
common amongst which are the mildews and
rusts. (3) Send one or two diseased Ponderosa
plants to Agricultural Department for diagnosis.
(4) To make liquid manure, soak a sugar-bag
of fresh cow manure in 40-50 gallons water for
a week. Use the solution at the rate of one
part to three parts of fresh water. Fill the cask
again, and when the manure has soaked a
week use the solution one part to one part
of water. The process may be repeated again
and the solution used neat. This form of
liquid manure is safe and may be used once a
week, four gallons being sufficient for 18ft. of
a running row. Do not apply to very dry soil,
but water first.
❖ $ rft
A London daily recently reported that firms
in U.S.A. are selling ready-packaged nutrient
chemicals in their correct proportions for “tray-
farmingand that State-run agricultural stations
are supplying inquirers gratis with formulce.
Can you tell me what these formulce are or
where 1 could get them ? —4334.
Suggest you secure a copy of Soilless Growth
of Plants, by Ellis and Swaney, which deals
fully with latest technique.


Werner's offer their
patrons distinctive and
modern eyewear in styles
to suit every facial type.
11l B n felß D’C
ft E ML mm E K SP
PTY LTD.
336 Collins Street, Melbourne "
Member of the Q.O.S.
K
“THE WOMAN'S MIRROR” COOKERY BOOK
400 Pages
3000 Recipes
Acclaimed by Australian Housewives
“THE BEST RECIPE BOOK EVER”
OVER 15,000 COPIES SOLD!
m
> ?■>
m
If
X
m
•li
■ I
V>-
X'
re
m >
II ■
III;-- . *
1 % M
<F
i‘£>.
PM
... - •
1 PI
m
*
//
m
1 m
sw s
8 :
Well bound with a stiff cover of
washable Fabrex Leather-cloth, this
book has been made possible by the
accumulated experience of Mirror
cooks. Every recipe in the book has
been tested and in most cases the
food value of the dishes has been
calculated by a well-known Woman
Doctor and is shown alongside the
recipe. Thus in addition to being
the most complete and reliable
cookery book ever offered to the
housewives of Australia and New
Zealand it is also invaluable to those
whose health demands a measured
or balanced diet.
Price
(postage extra)
from all Booksellers and Newsagents,
or direct from the Publishers.
Mark envelope “Mirror Cookery Book
and address to the Manager, The
Australian Woman’s Mirror, Box 252 188,
Sydney, N.S.W. (Post free, 3/8).
New Zealand readers should send their
orders to the "Mirror’s” Wellington office,
Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
(Post free, 3/8.)


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Coma have worried you—now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN'
SULK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
Them. How comfortable your feet feel after ACORN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORK
SILK at Cd. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMM ADE & OLE RUINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General . Manager— D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
Jtfices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa •
cion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
cats Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE - - 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
11 . 1 . right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, used to handling
manuscripts, seeks typing work, novels, articles,
stories, etc. Neat and accurate; moderate
charges.—4440.
Lad (18), Vic., exp. with sheep, wants job
on sheep property.—4409.
Gentleman, Sydney, requires accommodation
for three weeks with private family on farm
in quiet spot not more than 100 miles from
city.—4449.
To buy Illustrated History of Botany Bay, by
Frank J. Donohue (Arthur Gayll), published
by The Bulletin in 1888.—4447.
To buy music for violin, viola and piano,
two violins and piano, violin and viola, and
two violins. —4443.
To buy book containing poem “Mary Le-
maine”; also other cattle-duffing and bush-
ranging verses. —4423.
Information Sought.
What British naval vessels are being built or
are to be built under the (1) 1936-37, (2)
1937- (3) 1938-39 and (4) 1939-40 Estimates,
with names and tonnages of the principal
classes of vessels ? —4456.
Under the 1936-37 Estimates there are com-
pleting two battleships of 35,000 tons (King
George V. and Prince of Wales), five cruisers
of 5450 tons (Dido, Euryalus, Naiad, Phoebe,
Sirius), two aircraft carriers (Illustrious, Vic-
torious), eight destroyers and four submarines.
(2) Under the 1937-38 Estimates there are
building three battleships of 35,000 tons (Duke
of York, Jellicoe and Beatty), five cruisers of
8000 tons (Fiji, Kenya, Mauritius, Nigeria,
Trinidad) and two of 5450 tons (Bonaventure,
Hermione), two aircraft carriers (Formidable;
Indomitable), 16 destroyers, seven submarines,
two escort vessels, four minesweepers, three
patrol vessels and a depot ship. (3) Under the
1938- Estimates there are building two battle-
ships of 40,000 tons (Lion, Temeraire), four
cruisers of 8000 tons (Ceylon, Gambia,
Jamaica, Uganda) and three of 5450 tons
(Charybdis, Cleopatra, Scylla), one aircraft
carrier (Implacable), three submarines, three
minelayers, 12 torpedo boats, two gunboats, two
depot ships and an aircraft supply ship. (4)
Under the 1939-40 Estimates there are to be
built two battleships of 40,000 tons, four
cruisers of 8000 tons, one aircraft carrier, 16
destroyers, four submarines, one minelayer, 22
escort vessels, 10 minesweepers, one depot ship,
six torpedo boats and one gunboat.
x * * *
(1) What constitutes a city in New South
Wales ? (2) How many cities are there in
N.S.W.? (3) When was Lismore {N.S.W.)
made a city? —4450.
(1) Section 11 (2) of the N.S.W. Local
Government Act, 1919, provides that the
Governor may proclaim as a city a municipality
which has during the five years next preceding
such proclamation had an average population
of at least 15,000; has during the period had
an average gross income from all sources of at
least £20,000, and is an independent centre of
population, not a suburb, whether residential,
industrial, commercial or maritime, of any other
municipality or centre of population. (2) Eight:
Sydney, Armidale, Bathurst, Goulburn, Grafton,
Greater Newcastle, Broken Hill and Parramatta.
The five first-mentioned were notified as cities
under the Crown Lands Act on March 20,
1885. The city of Broken Hill was proclaimed
under the Local Government Act, 1906, on
July 17, 1907, and the city of Greater New-
castle was constituted under the Greater New-
castle Act, 1937. Parramatta was proclaimed
a city by the Local Government (City of Parra-
matta) Act, 1938. (3) The Lismore munici-
pality has not been proclaimed a city under
the Act.
* * * *
Why is it that Scottish pipe bands don’t play
the National Anthem? —4271.
There are eight notes on a pipe chanter,
with no sharps or fiats, and it is only a piece
of music written within the range of these notes
that can be played on the pipes, and then only
in the key the pipes are set to.
* * *
(1) When was' the last Q’land State election
held? (2) Number of members of the various
parties elected? (3) Number of votes cast?
(4) Total votes cast for the various parties? —
4464.
(1) April 2, 1938. (2) 42 Labor members, 12
United Country, four United Australia and one
Protestant Labor party member were elected,
while two Labor members and one United
Country party member were returned un-
opposed. (3) 539,037. (4) Labor 250,943,
Country 117,694, U.A.P. 69,205, Social Credit
25.234, Protestant Labor 46,568, others 22,335.
* * # *
A few particulars about Harold Septimus
Power, the Australian painter? —4466.
Born at Dunedin (M.L.) in 1878, he studied
in Melbourne and at Julien’s Academie, Paris,
and painted in Vic. and S.A. before he went
to Europe and made a name for himself as a
painter of animals and hunting pictures. He
was official artist to the A.I.F., with rank of
lieutenant, and his canvas depicting the 1st
Australian Divisional Artillery going into action
before Ypres, July 31, 1917, was described as
the most convincing war picture in the Royal
Academy, 1919. He was commissioned with
W. B. Mclnnes to paint the opening of the
Federal Parliament at Canberra in 1927. Aus-
trahan gallery pictures include “The Light
Horse,” “Enemy in Sight,” Sydney; “The Stag
Hunt,” “Exmoor,” Melbourne; “After a Day’s
roil,” “Battle Before Villers-Bretonneux,
August 8, 1918,” Adelaide. His “Ambulance
Train, France,” was purchased for the Im-
perial War Museum, 1919, and his “On the
Moors” was bought for the National Gallery,
London, in 1927, for 1000 guineas.
* * * x
How did Forty Baskets beach (Sydney
Harbor) get its name ? —4244.
According to the secretary of the Manly,
Warringah and Pittwater Historical Society, the
surveyor making the original survey in the
locality named the beach. He called it Forty
Baskets beach owing to the fishermen at the
time obtaining a record of 40 baskets of fish
off the beach.
* * * *
Brief biography of Dame Mary Gilmore, with
list of her published works and other achieve-
ments ? —4357.
Daughter of Donal Cameron, she was born
near Goulburn (N.S.W.), and was a school-
teacher. She joined and was the leading woman
in the New Australia movement, and went
with William Lane and his colonists to Para-
guay in 1895. She remained there for five
years, and went thence to the Argentine, where
she was later teacher of English in Patagonia,
and wrote for Buenos Ayres papers. Returning
to Australia in 1902, she wrote verse, stories
and essays, interested herself in various indus-
trial, cultural and sociological movements, and
joined the staff of the “Australian Worker.”
Publications include Marri’d and Other Verses,
The Passionate Heart, The Tale of Tiddley
Winks, The Tilted Cart, The Wild Swan, Battle-
fields, The Rue Tree and Under the Wilgas—
all verse; Hound of the Road (essays); Old
Days, Old Ways and More Recollections.
What salaries are paid to members of (1)
the English House of Commons, (2) French
Senate and Chamber of Deputies, (3) U.S.A.
Senate and House of Representatives, and (4)
Canadian House of Commons ?— 4428.
(1) £6OO p.a. (2) Both 90,000 francs p.a.
(3) Both 10,000 dollars p.a., plus 5000 dollars
p.a. for clerical hire. (4) 4000 dollars per ses-
sion, subject to deductions for non-attendance.
* * * *
By whom was Malta held before the English
gained possession of the island? —4425.
Malta was held in turn by Phoenicians,
Greeks, Carthaginians and Romans, and was
conquered by Arabs in 870. From 1090 it
was joined to Sicily until 1530, when it was
handed over to the knights of St. John, who
ruled until dispersed by Napoleon in 1798.
The Maltese rose in rebellion against the French,
and the island was subsequently blockaded by
the British Fleet, aided by the Maltese, from
1798 to 1800, and with the free will of the
Maltese was finally annexed to the British
Crown by the Treaty of Paris in 1814.
* * * *
(1) Where can I get plans and specifications
of a charcoal gas producer plant suitable for
a Buick Standard Six? (2) Where can I buy
a suitable plant? (3) Probable cost? (4) How
long is it necessary to wait before starting for
gas to generate? (5) Miles per cornsack of
charcoal ? —4304.
(1) Much general information will be obtain-
able from a brochure on producer-gas-driven
vehicles which will shortly be issued by the
Department of Defence. Many drawings,
sketch plans, etc., of different types of pro-
ducers have been published in the technical
press. Any of the larger public libraries would
be able to give references to these, but in the
meantime useful articles, with diagrams, appear
in the “Transactions of the Institution of
Engineers, Australia,” March, 1938, page 89,
and vol. 11, 1930, page 101. (2) Australian
manufacturers of producer-gas equipment for
motor vehicles are Powell Gas Producers, 94
Beaufort-street, Perth; Buzacotts, 7-11 Market-
street, Sydney; Howard Auto-Cultivators, Wind-
sor-road, Northmead (N.S.W.); Transport Power
Gas (Aust.), 37 Queen-street, Melbourne; and
Wishart Gas Producers, 128 Moreland-road,
East Brunswick (Vic.). (3) Roughly £BO. (4)
From three to five minutes would be required
after lighting the fire in the generator before
the engine would' start. (5) In general, 161 b. of
charcoal is equivalent to one gallon of petrol.
* * * *
(1) Did the late S. Myer found the School
of Commerce, Melbourne? (2) What is the
Australian Council of Educational Research ?
4293.
(1) No. It simply arose as a necessary adjunct
to the University. The Sidney Myer Profes-
sorship of Commerce was founded as a memo-
rial to Sidney Myer, who made many
gifts to the Uni. (2) It is an organisation of a
Federal character founded 10 years ago with
an endowment from the Carnegie Foundation.
It makes educational inquiries and reports, sub-
sidises investigators and makes investigations on
its own account. It has issued about 60 reports,
the latest being the first number of the annual
Review of Australian Education. Address:
145 Collins-street, Melbourne.
* * * *
A and B are N.S.W. holders of freehold lands
adjoining. A announces his intention of renew-
ing the boundary fence between them. B
cannot afford to do his share. Can he apply
to the local Land Board for extended terms for
payment of his share of cost? If this is not
the case, has B any other recourse? —4329
In the case of freehold lands, cannot see
how the local Land Board could intervene
between the parties. If A were approached in
an amicable spirit he might agree to payment
over an extended period, but no provision is
made in the Act in this direction. Should B
lail to pay his share A could sue him for it.
1 he magistrate on giving judgment for A might
in the exercise of his discretion allow B time
m which to _ pay the amount sued for and any
legal costs incurred. B should try to fix the
matter up on a friendly basis. He cannot evade
the responsibility
* * * *
It is proposed to instal a memorial clock
having three dials (4 ft. hands) in a tower.
Would you recommend a turret clock or a
master c10ck? —4393.
The turret clock, although more expensive
than the master clock, is preferable in several
ways. The dials in the former are mechanically
linked, whereas in the master system they are
electrically linked, making it less certain that
they will register uniform time. Generally
speaking, the turret system requires less atten-
tion in the long run, and is more economical.
Most of the larger and better clocks throughout
Tasmania are centre-movement turret clocks.
* * * *
(1) A few details concerning Australia’s first
postmaster? (2) Where was the first post-
office located? (3) When was the present Syd-
ney G.P.O. opened for business? (4) When
were stamps first issued in Australia, and by
which State ? —4437.
(1) Isaac Nichols (17707-1819) was trans-
ported to N.S.W. in 1791, but was soon freed,
and in 1796 was appointed overseer of convict
gangs in Sydney. In 1802 he became assistant
to the Superintendent of Customs, and in April,
1809, was authorised by Paterson to act as post-
master for the colony, this appointment being
confirmed by Macquarie. (2) The first office
for the reception of mail matter was located
in George-street to the immediate north of the
present fire station at Circular Quay. (3) The
George-street end was opened on September 1,
1874, but the extension to Pitt-street was not
completed until 1887. (4) By N. S. Wales in
January, 1850, when the Id., 2d. and 3d.
locally-printed Sydney Views were issued, but
stamped covers were issued as early as 1838 for
use within the Sydney area.
* * * *
Did Deeming, the murderer of several wives,
visit ’Frisco between 1893 and 1895 ? —4226.
Can find no record of Deeming having ever
visited ’Frisco, but he had travelled widely,
and used to boast about his exploits in America
amongst other places. He could not have visited
’Frisco between 1893 and 1895, for he was
executed in Melbourne Gaol on July 23, 1892.
Possibly you are confusing Deeming with Butler,
who was arrested on arrival in ’Frisco on
February 2, 1897.
* * * *
In cribbage, what do four fives and a jack
score, and how is the score made up?— 4392.
The score is 28, made up of four fifteens
made with the fives (excluding one of them in
each combination), four fifteens made with jack
and a five, and 12 for the quadruplet (out
of which six different pairs can be made). The
jack would score a point if one of the suit
turned up.
* * * #
Receipts and profits of the Q’land Golden
Casket for the last five years? —44s3.
1933-34, receipts £1,301,094, profits £322,401;
1934- receipts £1,337,404, profits £313,967;
1935- receipts £1,579,438, profits £359,643 ;
1936- receipts £1.474,496, profits £335,635;
1937- receipts £1,742,351, profits £397,931.
* * * ¥
How to make resin compound for use as a
spray in the garden? —444B.
The recipe is: Resin 21b., soda crystals 21b.
and soft soap lib., water to make 10 gallons.
This gives |lb. solids to one gallon of spray.
First crush the resin fairly small, the smaller
the better. Boil one or two gallons of water
and add the soda. Keep the water boiling, and
gradually add the resin while keeping the mix-
ture stirred. When the resin is thoroughly dis-
solved, stir in the soft so’ap and water to make
10 gallons of spray.
* * * *
When Ossie Stewart defeated Ron Richards
in Melbourne recently did he win the Aus-
tralian middleweight championship ? Jackie
Wilson claims to have won the Autsralian
featherweight championship when he defeated
Joe Hall and Mickey Miller. Were these con-
tests for the Australian featherweight title, and
does Wilson hold it ? —4009.
Neither Stewart’s contest with Richards nor
Wilson’s bouts with Hall and Miller were adver-
tised as Australian championships. Rules con-
cerning Australian championships were formed a
few years ago, and one of them states that only
British subjects (after 12 months’ residence in
this country) are eligible to fight for an Aus-
tralian title. Stewart and Wilson are both
colored Americans, so their claims to an Aus-
tralian championship cannot be recognised.
* * * *
(1) When did Bob Fitzsimmons leave M.L.
and Australia for America ? (2) How long was
Fitzsimmons living in the U.S.Aj before he
won the world’s heavyweight championship in
1897 •’’t 4226 -
Fitzsimmons left M.L. for Australia late in
1881, and after having 14 boxing contests in
Sydney, the last of which was with Jim Hall
on February 10, 1890, he went to ’Frisco and
fought Australian Billy McCarthy there on May
29, 1890. From then on, Fitzsimmons lived in
the U.S.A. (except for a short visit to Aus-
tralia in 1909, during which Bill Lang beat him
in 12 rounds at Sydney on December 27, 1909)
until his death at Portland, Ore., on October
23, 1917. So Fitzsimmons was living in the
United States seven years before he won the
world’s heavyweight championship from Jim
Corbett at Carson City, Nev., on March 17,
1897.
* * * *
Recipe for an egg preservative ? —4387.
Dissolve sodium silicate in boiling water to
about the consistency of a syrup, approximately
one part silicate to three parts water. Material
can be obtained from all wholesale chemists.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of native word “Karmala,” name
of A.I.F. transport?—43BB.
Brief Answers.
J.8.W.: A sun bittern is either of two
peculiar Central and South American birds
(Eurypyga helias and E. major) allied to the
herons, rails and cranes. The plumage is
variously barred, mottled and vermiculated with
brown, black, white and buff, most strikingly
displayed on certain parts of the wings and
tail only when the bird is excited... .E.E.:
(1) Cannot undertake to provide arguments for
a debate. (2) Call and consult our files....
J.L.W.: Application form was posted. It has
apparently gone astray. Write Lands Dept.,
Brisbane, for another D.W.: The Royal
Canadian Navy has four mine-sweepers, two
destroyers of the A class (Skeena and
Saquenay), which were delivered from England
in 1930-31, and four of the C type (Fraser,
St. Laurent, Restigouche and Ottawa), acquired
in 1937-38... .E. 8.: (1) A clarence was a four-
wheeled carriage with seats for four inside
and a seat for the driver outside, so-called in
honor of the Duke of Clarence, later William
IV. of England. (2) A brougham was a light,
closed carriage with seats inside for two or
four, and with the fore wheels so arranged as
to turn short, so called after the first Lord
Brougham (1778-1868) R.L.: Robert Des-
mond Tate, author of The Doughman, was
born at Melbourne in 1889, and was educated
at the Timaru (M.L.) High School. He fol-
lowed a roving career and is now resident in
Sydney... .D.8.A.: Dale Collins’s address is
c/o Pearn, Pollinger and Higham, 6 Norfolk-
stfeet, London, W.C.2... .G.W.: The native
name for Fiske River (S.A.) is Lirambenda,
meaning a creek... .T.D.: Wilruna means
sunset; Baapanannia, sunrise; Eli-elwah, the
rising sun; Euroka and Walcha, the sun; and
Wirringgulla, sunshine... .A.D.L.: Write Chief
Warden, National Emergency Services, Town
Hall, George-street, Sydney... .W.M.: Billy
Grime was former feather-, light- and welter-
weight champion of Australia. He was born at
Young (N.S.W.) on April 27, 1902; height, sft.
6£in.; reach, 69in R.F.: A university
tutorial class for the study of psychology was
opened in Epping (Sydney) on April 26 last,
and has been meeting each Wednesday evening
at 8 p.m. since that date in the Epping School
of Arts. The tutor is W. M. O’Neil, M.A.
A.W.R.: Write Angus and Robertson, 89
Castlefeagh-street, Sydney... .F.C.T.: Write
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Agriculture, Mel-
bourne... .G.E.8.: Appointments to the nurs-
ing staff of the Fiji Administration are made
through the N.Z. Dept, of Health, Wellington.
To be eligible for such appointment a nurse
must be registered in M.L. and must hold, in
addition to her general nursing certificate, a
certificate as a midwife or a maternity nurse.
In most instances the nurses selected for these
positions go on loan from the service of a
Hospital Board or the Department of Health
in ML. for two years H.F.H.: (1) The cor-
rect version is:—
’Tis not in mortals to command success,
But we’ll do more, Sempronius; we’ll deserve it.
The quotation is from Addison’s “Cato,” Act
I, Scene 2. (2) The quotation should run:
“Fortune brings in some boats that are not
steered.” It is the last line of Pisanio's
soliloquy in Shakspeare’s “Cymbeline,” Act
IV, Scene 3....A.A.: History of England, by
Andre Maurois and The Greatness and Decline
of the Celts, by Henri Hubert... .J.R.F.: (1)
and (2) Far too much. Tobacco should be
interdicted for all sufferers from gastric ulcer.
(3) Self-control and the use of a mouth-wash
of silver nitrate (5 p.c.) diluted with four times
the quantity of water. Do not allow the solu-
tion to touch porcelain sinks or linen, as it
produces permanent black stains C.S.: A
good general formula for a soap base is caustic
soda 1201 b., lard 501 b., olive oil 401 b., alcohol
121 b., sodium chloride 201 b., soda ash 31b., water
2801 b. A suitable method of manufacturing
eucalyptus soap would be to add 1.5 kilograms
of the oil to 48 kilograms of the base. (A kilo-
gram equals 2.21 b.) Further details can be
obtained from the Chemical Formulary, Bennett,
VII, 1935, available in N.S.W. Public Library.
W.W.T.: Climatic conditions during the
summer months in Tasmania do not favor sun-
drying of stone fruits, and artificial methods of
dehydration would need to be employed. The
cost of maintaining a dehydration plant of
small capacity would not be warranted. The
cheapest and most convenient method to pre-
serve stone fruits for home use would be by
bottling... .W.A.K.: L. W. Lower has written
two books, Here’s Luck and Here’s Another.
. ...J.A.G.: Barker’s, Adelaide-street, Bris-
bane. .. .W.W.: See Commonwealth Official
Year-Book, available all public libraries....
H.A.D.: The Anzac Memorial, Sydney, was
opened by the Duke of Gloucester on Novem-
ber 24. 1934; cost was approximately £BO,OOO.
J.H.C.: Kingsford Smith on his Pacific
flight navigated to Suva by dead reckoning and
previous astronomical observations. There is
no beam at Suva D. 8.0.: Communicate
with the production manager, General Motors-
Holden’s, Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne, who
will be able to supply complete details....
D.L.: (1) The Bunker group is at the southern
end of the Great Barrier Reef, the nearest main-
land port being Bundaberg. The islands are
similar to the many other coral isles along the
Outer Barrier. The group consists of Lady
Musgrave, Fairfax and Hoskyn islands.
Slightly north-west of the Bunker group is
the Capricorn group. (2) See S. Elliot Napier’s
On the Barrier Reef... .E.V.T.: (1) Aust.
Broadcasting Commission declines to furnish
figures. (2) The Commission states that one
announcer only reads the cable news R.H.:
Get in touch with either McPherson’s, Ltd.,
51 Bathurst-street, or H. P. Gregory and Co.,
74 Clarence-street —both Sydney G.T.: B
is offside. In no circumstances can an
offside player standing within five yards of an
opponent Waiting for the ball be placed on-
side. He must retire outside the five-yard
radius J. 8.: Write Royal Agricultural
Society of N.S.W., Endeavour House, Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney W.W.G.A.: There is
nothing to prevent a landowner claiming inter-
est on compensation moneys due to him for
a resumption for main-road purposes, but in
assessing the compensation to be paid the
Q’land Commissioner of Main Roads is bound
by the provisions of the Public Works Land
Resumption Acts, 1906-1938, in which there is
no mention of interest payment.


fdg
THE
No. 161
"TUMBA"
CATTLE
DROVER
POLEY
£B/3/9
(BARE)
£9/7/6
(MOUNTED)
/
It has Hogskin Seat
and Kip Flaps, and
the Stirrup Bars are free.
N.S.W. Rail Freight on Saddles Paid
for Cash With Order.
Write for Copy of Our New Saddlery Catalogue,
Just Published.
WALTHER & STEVEMSOM
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
PTT.
LTD.
liUlUt
11.
V
Z77777777ZT
ii
mu ilrnlhu in >> >r
=*? " -rtf
~~ ■: 111 I I ITT"
83 years in BATHURST
On February 12, 1851, Edward Hargreaves went prospecting for gold
and found it on a tributary of the Macquarie River at what is now Ophir,
not far from Bathurst. By the end of April Sydney was ringing with the
news, and the first Australian gold-rush started.
The Bank of New South Wales opened a branch at Bathurst on September
8, 1856. A large proportion of the gold taken from the Sofala, Hill End,
and Sunny Corner gold-fields was deposited with this Bank, from where it
was carried to Sydney by coach under the old gold escorts.
The Bank of New South Wales, from the early gold-rush days, has been
closely associated with the development of Bathurst, which is now the
centre of a district famous for the wealth of its pastoral and agricultural
produce.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
491A.1939
Relaxation, recrea-
tion, wide scenic
vistas and modern
comfort are assured
to travellers who
take the Canadian
Australasian route
to Europe.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF
N.Z., LTD.
( Incorporated, in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
fukope
r\
x
fdg
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
ho notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re ccmtri u
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. shouia
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
A.T.: “The Tree” begins well but does
not fulfil its promise.... A.N.G.: It’s hard to
say whether you’re worse when you force your
rhymes in “Monotony” or when you give up
the ghost in “Complaint” A. 8.: Was he a
Red Indian?.... J.M.: It’s not screamingly
funny... .J.H.1.: Admonished the “wicked”
wind A.M.N.: Milton did it better
K. There’s no real beef in “Ode to An
0x”... .T.E.McC.: It’s always exciting to hear
from you, but can’t you lose that green note-
paper? ... .H.P.S.: That one got away, t 00....
P.'N.R.: Try a women’s paper F. 8.: Crude,
. ...M.L.G.: The first verse is dreadful....
J.G.8.: Nothing new in “Knowledge”....
S.H.W.: This is no place for picking daisies.
. ...S.A.S.: Nine questions don’t make a poem,
.. . .J.G.: That’s the first time anyone has seen
Sylvanus dreeing in Australia L.M.: Slight.
... .A.J.MacN.: “A Prodigal Verse,” beginning
“Sweet Solitude! How beautiful the quiet
state of your power,” is coming home....
L. A lightweight.... J.H.: Why use such
very earthy metaphors when it’s “A Drama in
a Cosmic Setting”? R.E.R.: Pretty, but that’s
all J.M.: Unreal L.J.M.: “Memories”
is an old friend... .8.J.D.: They’re full of
hackneyed phrases.... A.A.8.: “Laugh and
be happy! Be balanced and sane!” We’ll try
to D.8.0’C.: It doesn’t say enough for its
length M.H.: Promising, but too mannered,
and you’ve borrowed the manner... .P.R.: Sur-
prising the number of those “Romantic In-
terludes” we hear about K.E.K.: Labored.
N.F.: Might suit a women’s magazine
W.K.: The difficulty is always to make that
sort of thing credible—yours isn’t... .E.S.:
Not up A.A.H.: Much too slight E.L.:
Out... .H.R.S.: Saw it about a year ago; it
isn’t any better now... .8.A.C.: Nothing to it.
. ...W.S.D.: Not for u5....8.N.: Read the
type of stories we publish... .A.P.: You can’t
do that G.W.: Not even on pink paper....
0.W.: The oldster didn’t impress... .T.V.C.:
Not a chuckle... .J.F.: “Never a Chance” was
right D.R.: And “Hard Work” wasn’t
worth it G.H.S.: Buffalo-shooter; gun
jams; buffalo chases him; shooter climbs tree;
buffalo knocks it down, kneels on shooter
tangled in branches—“ln a few moments the
man ceased to live.” Please!... .L.W.: “The
Outcast” cast out C.A.8.: Not that one,
D.H.G.: If you must send stuff all the
way from England why not see to it that it’s
of the type we use? D.E.C.C.: Lightweight,
V.K.: It’s been better handled before
A.A.: Sending Sarah home 1.C.E.: Come
again, but without the bellerdrammer... .F. 8.:
For flappers only.. .G.F.N.: At least you’re an
optimist G.W.: An old idea D.C.; Too
pretty W.J.S.: That doesn’t get a place,
but you seem to have some usable material
on hand W.F.U.: A frayed thread....
F.L.C.: Carry the yarn a bit further and you
should place it elsewhere F.J.W.: You,
too L.R.8.: “Remarkable Reginald” re-
markably ragged... .J.N.P.: You don’t make
a yarn by slamming half a dozen incidents
together H'.N.R.: “The Prize Orpington”
is sitting on a dud clutch... .B.R.S. : Hor-
rible... .H.S.D.: If you’re a “mental telepa-
thist” you’ll know by now exactly what we re
thinking... .J.N.R.: Are all contributors in
the same boat. No, some are floundering.
. ...B/T.D.: No need to say it was written
m a hurry... .J.P.R.: You could hardly say
less in 5000 words.. . .N.T.D.: Yes, it s a
“long, long road, and you re a long, long
way off it... .N.R.C.: You amaze u 5....
8.R.8.: Its terrible what a winter goes
through when he writes. Yes, we go
through what he writes.... M.N.C.: We ve
thrown that drunk off these premises a thou-
times... .G.8.R.; “Samson ’ weak....
8.V.R.: Gave Jimmy Boy his return ticket.
... .C.D.L.: Good short stories arent dashed
off at odd moments ....N.R.L.: That sleuth
is a weekly visitor. ...N.R.D.: A titter....
D.L.R.: Send it to Musso.... .G.8.R.: Hiey
all have whiskers... .D.P.W.: The office
morgue is littered with that breed .. .C.G.L.:
Stick to your fretwork... .F.O M.: An old
nuisance... .8.L.D.: Cut and call again....
R.D.: Disappointed to learn that that ghost
still walks C.D.L.: If that’s the best you
can manage in the way of handwriting, you
need a typewriter... .M.T.: Dreadful....
G.L.W.: Have you ever seen an abo.? ..
N.F.R., L.T., F.L., N.N.D., R.0.L.: Missed,
TO a RTISYTC fAND INARTISTIC!
10 A
COKKESrUJNDEJN 10.
W. 8.: It was not the masterpiece that the
covering letter led us to expect... .C.S.: The
old lady appears to have been put through a
mangle G.S.R.: You managed Joe Stalin’s
moustache, but made a mess of the rest of him.
. ...N.M.: Why didn’t you apply the finishing
touches before sending it in?....H.8.: You
might learn to draw before attempting scraper-
board work P.P.: That wheeze has been
served too often for our taste... .G.C.: You’ve
picked up a few tricks, but you’re no artist.
M.D.: Arrival of that old friend heralds
the approach of spring L.S.: Get more
action into your pictures T.W.: The only
spare corner we can give it is a spare corner
in the office dungeon M.W.: If you must
pun in that juvenile fashion, do it elsewhere.
R.D.D.: All your men go at the knees....
K.S.: One of the oldest of the level-crossing
school of gags J. 8.: You’re better with
the pen than with the brush A.A.: Danzig
idea has been exploited in other quarters
E.R.J.: You must have drawn it in a dentist’s
parlor while waiting to have a tooth extracted.
F.C.: A sheer waste of good drawing
paper... .M.G.A.: Mental-asylum jokes are
barred, also gags dealing with physical deformi-
ties... .R. 8.: Gags need to be more crisp,
linework more bold C.F.: You should land
the bacon if you study hard for the next few
years W.D.: Another injustice to Ireland.
K.8.A.: Take out the ugly background
and try again E.M.: Caricatures haven’t a
national interest. Sell them locally... .W.H.S.:
The full moon and the telegraph pole were
not so bad. The rest was awful.
A MIXED GRILL.
E. J. Gravestock, onetime J.C.W. direc-
tor and impresario for many singers
and executants, is now up to his ears in
preparations for Melbourne’s Mardi Gras
or Spring Carnival, which will leap be-
fore the astonished gaze of citizens on
Caulfield Cup day, and is guaranteed to
maintain a full turn of speed for four
weeks thereafter. Greatest amongst a
multitude of attractions will be the
performance of “Hiawatha,” on which
the City Council will spend £9600.
Gravestock also is associated with
the projected Garden City, for which
14 acres of the Treasury Gardens
are to be fenced off and filled with
floral carpets, one of which will con-
tain 100,000 flowers. There will be
street processions, an all-Australia car
rally, an Air Derby, an abo. display
and a pageant of 50 nations.
* * * *
“Dhas”: The Australian popular poets
from “Banjo” Paterson to C. J. Dennis
have always been available in cheap
editions, but Brennan, Hugh McCrae
and some later writers have all been
locked away in luxury or limited edi-
tions, often ridiculously expensive and
sometimes too pretty to look at to be
comfortable to read. The publication
recently of Hugh McCrae’s collected
Poems at six shillings and of Kenneth
Slessor’s Five Bells at two shillings looks
like the start of a sensible attempt to get
the work to the public. The price of
Five Bells is all the more remarkable in
that it carries half a dozen of the Norman
Lindsay illustrations that have helped
to keep prices high in the past.
* * * *
Communists have been trying in vain
to elect a member for about 20 years,
and have nearly always lost their deposits
where deposits had to be lodged, but
that doesn’t prevent them from profess-
ing to speak for Australia and Britain.
According to their “Weekly,” “the people
of Britain and Australia are demanding
that the Chamberlain Government at
once sign the Anglo-Soviet pact instead
of attempting to make treacherous bar-
gains with the Fascists.” “No doubt but
ye are the people.”
* * #
Having placed the Report on the Fruit
Industry (£2 25.) at the service of the
nation, the Sydney Government has gone
into the cheap-book business. A handy
pocket volume of the Report on the
Safety and Health of Workers in Coal
Mines, by Davidson (J.), McKensey and
Lowden, is now available at 15s. It runs
to 408 closely-printed foolscap pages,
with a dozen or so plans, maps and
tables, and two men can proudly claim
that they have read every word. They
are proofreaders.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The magistrate in a Mel-
bourne suburban court was arguing with
a medical witness about intoxication tests.
Accused, charged with being drunk in
charge of a motor vehicle, was standing
in the dock showing no apparent interest
in the discussion. The doctor was
advancing the latest scientific opinions
based on exhaustive tests. A gleam of
understanding came into the eye of the
accused, and he leant over confidentially.
“Drunk! I’ve never been what yer might
call drunk, Y’onah. I’ve never been in
the gutter, pulling the water over me,
thinking it was a blanket.”
* * * *
“Carrick, A. 8.”: Destroyer hulls are
of no use to shipbreakers because there is
practically nothing in them (B. 26/7/’39).
The plating is not much thicker than a
penny, and the framework is built up
after the style of an aeroplane wing, with
everything rigidly cut down to save
weight. When you see a partly-built
destroyer on the stocks you cannot help
marvelling that such a flimsy thing can
stand up to rough seas and the strains
and stresses imposed by speeds around 40
knots. Not only do they stand up to
them but they often take an extra-
ordinary amount of sinking by gunfire.
Light cruisers are even harder to sink ;
some of them have remained afloat after
receiving a terrible hammering.
* * * #
“D.F.”: A recent mild stir about
ecclesiastical vestments recalls a violent
upheaval on the subject in Sydney a cen-
tury ago. Dr. Broughton, Anglican
Bishop of Australia, wrote to Gipps to
express his horror and indignation at
having witnessed the public admission
and reception at the Governor’s levee
of Dr. J. B. Polding, “wearing those
habiliments appropriate to a Bishop of
the Church of Rome.” This he opposed
as an effort to obtain recognition of Dr.
Polding as a bishop, and “thereby of
the jurisdiction of the Bishop of Rome
within this realm.” Dr. Polding replied
that what he wore was a mantilla, a
vestment not exclusively episcopal, and
indeed not worn by a bishop when on
duty, so to speak.
* * * *
“Key”: The sailor’s yearning for “a
nice little farm” is extraordinarily wide-
spread. I knew five sailors, captains all,
whose lifelong ambition it was to have
one when they retired: four of them
achieved it. The fifth was a captain who
for years took passenger ships up and
down the Maoriland coast from Auck-
land to Dunedin. One morning when
we were passing the outer shores of
Coromandel Peninsula he pointed out to
us a horseshoe of yellow sand, a little
bay with bush to the water’s edge, and a
grassy point running in to the sea. That
spot, he said, was his chosen retreat, and
when he retired he meant to settle there,
build his house on the point, and have
a small farm behind. His other am-
bition was to end his seafaring career
without a disaster against his name, and
he did. He died in harness. The small
beach is still as beautiful and lonely
as it was when he looked at it so long-
ingly.


“Battler" Recolleetions of MockLampton
<< n ND so was born the city of sin,
sweat and sorrow,” declares J.
/ \ Grant Pattison, concluding the
first chapter of his just-published
“ Battler” Tales of Early Rockhampton.
His own family apparently had a full
experience of the sweat and sorrow. His
yarns are good for a’ that.
Among their leading figures is the “Billy
Pattison, the Mount Morgan million-
aire,” who was mentioned in the last
instalment of “Fifty Years Ago,” and
who. as Queensland Treasurer under
Morehead, “administered his department
with vigor, and didn’t like the Deluge in
his Mackay rum.” The Pattison family
arrived in Rockhampton in 1865, the
place at that time being “mostly bog,
sandy blight and malaria.” Its site had
been discovered by the Archers: J.G.P.
finds it hard to understand why they
named the river “after such a man as
Sir Charles Augustus Fitzroy, when there
were a number of reputable pioneers the
river could have been called after.”
Of the unholy trio of bog, blight and
malaria, the bog impressed the author
most vividly: he refers several times to
ladies losing their shoes crossing the
streets; gives a picture, also, of the dear
souls sailing down street with crinolines
•lifted to half-mast.
The Pattison fortune was high and
flourishing when Mount Morgan was dis-
covered. Deals over that were disastrous
to more than the Pattisons. Also William
Pattison was elected member for Black-
all, and “his life in Brisbane was like
that of a chicken among a strong flight
of hawks.”
The author gives his address as
The Sanctuary, Nerimbera, Rockhamp-
ton. The book is brief —-only 152 pages—
but he could have spread it out to three
times the length if he was given to pad-
ding. He is rather given to abruptness;
and the sense of humor which has no
doubt helped him to battle through life
is evident on every page.
Good yarns pretty well all his chapters
are. There’s a free and open-handed bush
quality about the telling; they’re full of
meat —sometimes literally ; the author
was, among other things, proprietor of
boiling-down works. A strong, broad pic-
ture of a former-day life emerges, freely
peopled with characters of the time and
place—mostly “characters” in the full
bush sense of the word—and indirectly,
through the outlook on life indicated, as
well as directly from autobiographical
odds and ends, the reader gets also a
fair idea of the author —evidently one of
the most remarkable characters of them
all.
He insists that rum isn’t what it used
to be: “They have the brand to-day, but
not the rum,” is his finding on a well-
known line of the potion. Still, he reads
as if it would be good to meet him over
a tot or two of the best that may be had,
unless he is to be taken literally when he
remarks, apropos of a captain who had
“liked a drop of rum in moderation”:
“We old-timers generally get religious
when we get tinny in the stomach.” He
surmises that that was why “the skipper
joined the Salvation Army.” His finding
on another skipper is an example of his
style of giving honor where honor is due:
“Captain Sykes was the last of the band
to slip his cable. We were particular
friends ; he was one of the finest men
as ever said ‘Here’s how!’ when the sun
was over the yardarm.” But he insists
that they can’t bowl the demon over now
as they used to:
In the early days of Rockhampton easily
90 p.c. of the people imbibed. Some of
the clergy drank. Some of the teetotallers
drank. Most of the businessmen drank,
and most of their clerks also.
In those days—when, incidentally, “it
was possible to get accommodated, at
the Telegraph Office counter, with a bet,
straight out or a double” —there were 40
hotels, “counting from East-street to the
Port Curtis crossing,” and his memory
may have “slipped one or two”! A
funeral was a high drinking occasion,
with a stirrup-cup (abundantly) before-
hand, calls at the pubs en route, and an
all-out race on horseback back to town
to continue the celebrations afterwards.
The stuff they drank evidently wasn’t all
of the merit of the favorably-remembered
rum. There was a brand of whisky “put
on the market by a hotelkeeper who liked
kosher meat.”
That whisky was manufactured some-
where between Gracemere and Gladstone;
there was a headache in a sniff of it. The
vendor approached my old man one day
to buy a case; the reply was: “Damn you,
sir, do you want me to poison my
friends?”
For the fair dispensers of Nelson’s Blood
(and its minor rivals) he has a respect
which, to the credit of all parties, is char-
acteristic of pretty well all old-timers:
If the young man of the present day
wants a sensible wife, and one who has a
good, wide knowledge of human nature,
he can do no better than take one from
behind a bar.
He is glad to be able to record that
“some of our leading citizens were of
the same opinion,” and he testifies to
having “met some very fine ladies among
them.” “What,” he wonders, “would the
old town have been without the girls and
the horses?” The horses he knew par-
ticularly well, having raced a number of
them: he had £lOOO on Megaphone when
that good galloper was beaten by Bunge-
bar in the Epsom (1890). The “girls” he
observed generally and curiously, always,
no matter what their repute, with the
bushman’s brand of protective chivalry.
“It seemed a shame to let all these good posts go to Waste."
In Rocky’s Mutton Alley—to the then
inhabitants of which he hands the biscuit
as the lowest scum he had ever set eyes
on —he saw “women chopped to pieces
and others drop dead,” whether from
fright, overindulgence or just feminine
contrariness he doesn’t say. “My
mother,” he adds, “was an ultra-religious
Scot, but that mob were too far gone
for her prayers.”
In a chapter devoted to “The Ladies —
God Bless Them” he includes the remark-
able fashion note that he cannot remem-
ber “a respectable woman who wore blue
silk” —in Rockhampton, that is. Blue
silk, it appears, was the style favored by
what he terms “the women of the under-
world.” The arrival one day of three
of these ladies, “their bright-blue silks
glistening in the sun,” at the Rockhamp-
ton Races, just before the running of the
Big Handicap, nearly wrecked the whole
proceedings. “There was consternation
among the boys of the village” ; some of
the male population discreetly withdrew
from the foreground; at last a steward
was ordered forth to turn the party back.
“The salute he received would take a lot
of explaining to his better half,” but,
“after expressing their opinion of some
of the stewards in particular and the lot
in general,” the ladies consented to retire,
and “half the male occupants of the stand
breathed freely again.”
Showing af devotion to fashion which
seems to survive, in different shape, to
the present day, and as strong as ever,
the ladies (using the word now embrac-
ingly) stuck to crinolines so long as they
remained the vogue, despite boggy streets
and other circumstances which must have
made theirs a most trying martyrdom,
Then,
Suddenly the news came from overseas,
“Crinolines are out.” In 24 hours they
were dumped, and there was a lot more
room m East-street. The discarded hoops
were turned into chicken coops or rose-
bush protectors.
They were, however, succeeded by the
bustle; and the only “decent” use he
can recall a bustle having been put to
“was when one of our merchants
levanted. His better-half had the notes
they were getting away with sewn up
in her bustle.” A rude policeman found
them.
So much for the ladies, here, perhaps,
given space a trifle out of proportion,
for the author is more concerned with the
male species. There was, he declares, a
lively mob in Rockhampton in the ’six-
ties; some of them would stop at no-
thing, from headin’ ’em to manslaughter.”
He might be interested to hear that the
present writer saw a school headin’ ’em
in thp nrvpn in Sudn P v Drimnin nnlv ln<u
in the open in bydney Domain only last
week ; and as for manslaughter—well, the
only difference seems to be that now they
use motor-cars.
Still, as far as is known, Sydney hasn’t
now anything quite in the class of the
Scandinavian Hall, where the seating
accommodation “was generally Hobart
Town apple cases,” because “in the
rough-ups chairs would not have stood
the racket.” And perhaps the author,
though he admires many of the grand
characters and the fine ways of a rough
but splendid past, would admit that in
some things there has been improvement,
since, for instance, “in those days it took
very little to put a man in gaol, whether
he belted an editor or could not pay his
debts.” Also, it would be hard to find
a match now for his picture of the City
of Sin, Sweat and Sorrow just after the
discovery of gold at Canoona.
Population was increasing slowly, when
suddenly the township was overwhelmed
with a rush of people, estimated from
20,000 to 30,000. There were some rough
uns amongst them—fighting men, thugs,
bullies and a lot of the riffraff of the
southern cities. The flat the town was
built on was covered with tents, and the
rowdy mob were kept in order by police-
men marching through them with fixed
bayonets.
Of his individual characters, Walter
Reid, formerly shopwalker for Buckley
and Nunn, Melbourne, and later a Rock-
hampton businessman, deserves mention
for one occurrence. He was out walking
one day when a bullet came across the
river and wounded him in the hand. “The
culprit was brought before him, and on
saying he was sorry Reid said: “I’m
sorry, too, but don’t do it again; you
can go.” There was another who shot
his partner out at the saleyards; “the
general opinion was he should have
killed him.” Also, there was “the usual
younger scion of a proud and ancient
race.” One of the most notable of the
breed had a house on very high blocks,
with a pull-up ladder; the shutters and
door of the house were reinforced with
iron, and when he was out trap guns
were fixed at each shutter. “If the shutter
went up the invader went down.”
Jackson, our cattle-buyer, used to go up
to pick bullocks. On one occasion, just
as they started j t looked like rain. Baker
sa j d) “Wait a moment, Jack Son, I’ll get
rny wet-weather suit.” He went into the hut
and came out in his bare pelt, climbed into
the saddle and rode away,
Turning his attention to cattle- and
horse-thieves, the author makes the m-
teresting Biblical reading: ‘ Jacob, the
son-in-law of Laban, was the first poddy-
dodger mentioned in history, and his
mantle must have fallen on the shoulders
of a forefather of an Australian.”
Cattle-stealing was quite an industry
“ en Ce t n o % Q cS" s lhSnk “ eir ,U f?refathm
for being goo d judges of another man’s
stock.
Horse-stealing was “an acknowledged
profession.”
I remember a well-known merchant
asking Jimmy Rutherford what he paid a
notorious horse-planter for recovering his
horses- j; replied> “ We pay him one
pound, but you will have to pay him two
pounds, as we are wholesale.”
In his own personal defence, as it were,
the author declares that, “regarding
station deals, I never tried to put over
any jokes until the other party started.
It did not pay to be a dunce when up
against the heroes of the rope and brand.”
There is a fair parade of such “heroes”
in his book. His real heroes are, among
men, good, honest battlers; among
horses, honest gallopers. His breezy
recollections have a feel about them of
having been written going over the
steeplechase fences. “Ike,” a publican,
“cursed us from Moses down to Beacons-
field,” is a literary Grand National if
ever a pen travelled one. More in sorrow
than in anger he sets down regarding a
iockey on a horse that didn’t win:
“I was strongly of opinion that the
b °y °h my entry had listened to
reason.” Needing a horse for a jump-
ing event, he “called on old man Schil-
ling, a t Westwood, to borrow Cornstalk,
Th old c PV entv vears nf aee
in f,° lQ man, men seventy years oi age,
P him °y er the yard gates to show me
he would jump. ’
Such is the breed of his heroes. His
villains are mostly paraded in his Mount
Morgan chapters. Without going over
his details, the author’s finding on the
Mount is that it “was responsible for
more chicanery and more broken old-
time friendships than any other business,
mining or otherwise, Australia was ever
interested in.” In these chapters he hits
out wherever he sees a head ; but it is
like him that there’s a final chapter in
which he is back again, in rousing good
humor, telling of how a divorce case
broke up the town’s polo-clubs, and of the
curious knowledge acquired by cabbies,
and other such general lore acquired by
himself during seventy years in and about
the City of Sin, Sweat and Sorrow —now,
of course, civilised and reputable, but in
its day, judging by the thesis this student
of it submits, as sound an Alma Mater
as any honest “battler” ever attended.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
Prize, plus 2ld. a line, goes this week to a South Australian—presumably a lady
—for expressing, in four pungent paragraphs, what many loyal Australians are
thinking.
Hats and Horses
. . . ~ • ,
At a time when the world groans with
the pains of unemployment and economic
distress and the tear of war hangs like
a cloud over the future, it seems a little
incongruous, to say the least of it that
we in Australia are expected to be in-
terested in the hats the future Governor-
General’s wife is bringing with her and
the horses the royal pair will race.
In view of the hard times, it might be
advisable for the press to give a little
more prominence to the plea for sim-
plicity which the Duke and Duchess have
urged the people of Australia to observe
in connection with their stay here. In-
stead of lengthy paragraphs on the ex-
ternal trappings of the royal lady, why
not mention a few of her qualifications
for this important role? And she seems
to have plenty. As an artist, a linguist,
a lover of good music and books, her
presence and patronage should be a
stimulus to struggling cultural societies.
This distortion by the daily press of
the personalities of those representing the
King, innocent as it may be, is not only
misleading but dangerous. Wewantintel-
lectual bread and not social circuses,
When every man, woman and child has
enough to live comfortably on and with-
out fear for the future, then we shall be
in a position to appreciate more amply
'oress £***“” ,he dai ' y
If Australia is to be more firmly united
with the Motherland it will not be done
via hats and horses, -Christel Treloaß
/ S A x
The winner’s address is 20 Fiuroy-
terrace, Prospect, S.A.
-
“Final Extra”
Evening newspapers ought to be made
to mark their respective editions more
clearly and precisely. Every afternoon
paper, according to the external evidence
of the colored label on it, is positively
the last. Of course, if you think you’ve
got the last paper for the day at about
three in the afternoon, you’re fool enough
to deserve to suffer. But when you hand
over your hard-earned pence to some
stentorian midget with an eye of native
cunning at six pip emma and have a
four-thirty thrust into your unsuspecting
hand it’s a bit beyond a joke. Trouble is,
of course, you don’t wake up to the ruse
until relaxing in train, tram or bus. —
J B. (Q.).
“Encirclement”
The German has a remarkable skill in
yokmg the horse behind he cart, and get-
tmg away with the falsehood If he
does not believe it himself he can always
get others to. In “Uncabled Additions”
(B. 2/8/’39) G. Glasgow is quoted:
“Russia was previously an ally of Britain
and France in precisely the same policy
of encircling Germany which again en-
gages our ingenuity. After a quarter of
a century we have reverted to type.”
In the early years of this century it
was France that was encircled. A re-
public surrounded by haughty imperial
dynasties, France had not a friend,
Hemmed in by the hostile Triple Alliance,
with Britain aloof in cold neutrality,
France was encircled in very truth: and
that encirclement was the work of Ger-
many. Threatened with destruction, the
French in their extremity turned to
Russia, and the Romanoff had reasons
for condescending to the republic; he
wanted backing against Hapsburg ambi-
tion in the Balkans; and he wanted ac-
cess to France’s moneybags. This align-
ment conformed to the British policy of
the balance of power, and looked well
enough until Russia collapsed in the
Japanese war; this, coupled with the
threatening demeanor of Germany,
awoke British statesmen to the fact that,
if there was to be a balance of power,
Britain would have to come in and make
weight. So, scrapping the pro-German
sympathies of the late Victoria, King
Edward led his country into the Entente,
There was no policy of encirclement
engaging our ingenuity a quarter of a
century ago. The Germans had no cause
to fe f u the Entente then. That was
nroved bv the test of war. If we had not
Jby detach our old fr i en d Italy
h Triple Alliance, we would
h ave f asted QUt four years of
a he nt “encirclement,” if it
is d £ e t 0 the German men ace of
. * A • . n f n D H
‘ o ±, y “ d ‘ s not the CaUSe ot U ' U ‘
'''
M» r iorie Lawrence
J . ~ , hut
Perhaps I m a nasty-minded bloke,
I can t help thinking the poor recep
Marjorie Lawrence got in Sydney was
due as much to snobbery as to the p e-
thora of rival shows on at the time. os
of what is generously termed musical
Sydney goes to these shows because
Jts socialite mind ; its knowle ge o
leaves much to be desired,
Miss Lawrence was only a counry
§ ir l w h° had made good. There was
ballyhoo for her in the society columns,
and the mob that gushes over tenth-rate
film stars when they mfest these
shores couldn t be bothered attending hei
concerts. Had she been Marjorama
Lorencio, photographed from coas o
coast, paragraphed from breakfast to bed,
featured meeting A.B.C panjandrums on
the incoming liner, and quoted say g
something disparaging about our train ,
or hotels, or manners, she d have been a
Being TuTmlss Lawrence, a very
splendid Australian, her name to that
bunch was just mud. She J s J
abroad as an artist of most excellen
quality, and had the Sydney crowd really
possessed the musical appreciation it
claims it would have packed her con-
certs, though there had been 20 other
attractions offering.—The Nark (N.S.W.).
The A.N.T.A,
On my return from the Continent I
noticed your remarks re the Australian
National Travel Association in The Bul-
letin. There is quite a lot of truth in
them. On our trip from Switzerland to
Belgium we passed over some mountains
about 5000 ft. high, and when we pulled
up at a station amongst these peaks cov-
ered with beautiful pine-trees, years old,
we noticed on the platform an advertise-
ment for Australia. It dealt with Vic-
torian and the picture was illustrat-
ing the largest trees in the British Empire
—at Marysville (Vic.),
For an advertisement of trees, etc., to
be affixed on a platform which was sur-
rounded with wonderful mountains,
peaks, scenery and trees seemed out of
P lace re , someone could use common .
J associat j n g with these “calls to
Australia ., suitable scenes of our country,
a Morris n on don)
KEITH A * morris (London;.
„
rost '“ mice £jXiras
Does the Post Office function as a
public utility or merely as a taxing
machine? Every writer knows the little
joke of when he wants to send return
postage with an overseas story. Inter-
national postage coupon ; 7d., no less,
l° r one U.S.A. postal unit a five-cent
stamp. Well over 100 p.c. extra. Don’t
pay it, scribblers; do as I do and buy
unused U.S.A. stamps from local stamp
dealers—they’ll only charge you the bare
100 p.c. But even more in the spirit of
the late Edward Kelly is the “conveni-
ence” of part-airmail to New York. “One
and sevenpence, please.” This is how it
works out: sd. airmail to London, then
lzd. shipmail across the Atlantic, total
6id. Who grabs the overcharge of
Is. id.? And on a half-ounce letter!
Grub-street (W.A.).
# # #
Our Politicians
“Pol” (B. 5/7/’39) wonders why poli-
ticians should not be legally punished for
breaking their promises. The poor poli-
tician is the Aunt Sally par excellence;
the fascination of shying things at him
never wanes. But is the politician, who
is a mere human like his critics, really
deserving of all this obloquy? Do not
the electors expect him to reach them
the sun and the moon and the stars? A
candidate cannot win votes unless he
promises to do so-and-so. Can he with
decency be blamed when he fails to
deliver the goods?
“Pol” says that electors should get what
they buy with their votes. This vote-
selling is the root cause of trouble, be-
cause the elector will sell to the highest
bidder. Rather than curse because poli-
tical promises are not fulfilled, we should
thank heaven they are not! If politicians
did all that they promised the country
would be in a worse state than it is now.
The average elector, and it is the aver-
age elector whom the politician must
endeavor to satisfy, considers only his
own interests. As far as he is concerned
the general welfare of the country can go
hang:. He is gratified, though he thinks
it may be too good to be true, when his
representative declares that he will cham-
pion the interests of his constituency first
and the interests of the general public
next. At last Woop Woop will get a
square deal, says the elector.
There will never be sound administra-
tion while there is a universal franchise
electing representatives on a population
and district basis. Let industries, profes-
sions and occupations elect their repre-
sentatives to Parliament, and we shall
be on the highroad to good government.
—Ailsa (Q.).
Criticism
Having rubbed shoulders with men in
various walks of life I have found very
few who can stand up to criticism. It
is something that we all need, and if it
comes from a friend so much the better.
But the critic’s task is a thankless one.
“My best friend is he who tells me my
faults” —so runs the adage. But if you
value your friend don’t criticise him.
This question, however, has a wider
meaning. Unless we are prepared to face
up to mutual criticism, how dare we call
ourselves democrats? Many in the com-
munity fail to realise this.
Some time ago I was present at a
meeting the purpose of which was to
defend the right of free speech. The
proceedings ran smoothly until one of
the speakers happened to make a critical
reference to Soviet Russia. He was at
once howled down by “champions of free
speech.”
We prize the right to criticise others ;
we revel in criticism when it is directed
against persons and things that we dis-
like. But it is a different story when
it is directed against ourselves and things
that we hold dear.
Toleration is our vital need. That is
the acid test of the sincerity of our demo-
cratic principles.—J. Hart (S.A.).
The Refugee
Met a refugee for the first time re-
cently, a young German girl with a Uni-
versity education, many degrees and a
sense of humor. Up till then I had
no set ideas on the refugee question, but
this one contact set me thinking.
Here was a girl who could speak four
languages, who knew Europe, and
who by virtue of her high education must
be a social and intellectual asset in any
country. Although she had been only
a few months in Australia she had made
marvellous progress with the language,
and conversation with her was not only
plain sailing but definitely mentally up-
lifting. Her liking for Australia seemed
quite genuine. She had a job, of course.
She was the type who would have a job
if she wanted it. The thought struck me
that the personality, plus ability, plus
energy this girl possessed must make for
the good of any community in which she
mixed.
This is just an individual case, granted.
But, after all, isn’t the whole refugee case
a matter of the individual? No sweeping
statement can cover the question. It all
goes back to the everlasting human
truth that there is good in the worst of
us and bad in the best of us and wherever
we are and whatever we’re doing it’ll
keep cropping up. —S. C. W. (Q.).
Shearers and Communism
I disagree with W. S. Howard in B.
2/8/’39 when he says that the shearing
fraternity harbors more Communists, pro
rata, than any other body of workers. In
effect, he says that, through being unable
to procure their racing papers and in-
dulge in their s.p. bets, they become
susceptible to revolutionary teachings.
In my opinion the average shearer
takes about as much interest in Marxist
doctrines as an aboriginal in Central Aus-
tralia does in the theory of relativity.
Of their tastes in literature, I would place
Western stories an easy winner, and any-
thing relating to political economy an
also-ran.
Racing is a popular subject with lots
of shearers. And if the Bolshie has made
his appearance in the sheds with the
advent of the wireless, so has the s.p.
bookie.—T. P. M. (N.S.W.).
The shearing industry is a stout link
in the economic life of Australia and
Maoriland, and it behoves the many
people who attack it so frequently and
viciously to think before they write. The
average shearer has too much work to
do to be influenced by such things as
Communism. His spare time is fully
occupied with various odd jobs, such as
washing and mending his clothes and
making his temporary abode more habit-
able.
If there is any Communism in the back
country it is confined to the bagmen’s
hut, the occupants of which call them-
selves shearers when all the jumbucks are
shorn. If W. S. Howard were to make
such statements in the many sheds I have
been in he would receive prompt and effi-
cient attention. —J. Hallsworth (M.L.).
Abolish State Parliaments
The Stevens-Spooner brawl is another
sound argument for the abolition of State
Parliaments.
Loan Council meetings are financial
dogfights—every man for his Budget and
to hell with the other States. It’s stupid
to talk about national unity while six
Premiers are playing their own hands.
Wipe out State politicians and take a
lesson from Sweden, the best-run non-
totalitarian nation. There, 380 Riksdag
members receive a travelling allowance
and are paid for sittings only. No gold
passes and no free jaunts to London.
The Riksdag is usually in session for
140 days. Members are elected by the
proportional representation system.
Liquor and tobacco are State monopolies
and not in the hands of vested interests.
Cabinet comprises heads of departments
and not more than ten Ministers with
portfolios. More businesslike than shov-
ing a farmer or a greengrocer into the
Defence Department.
With six and a quarter million people
Sweden’s national debt is one-eighth that
of Australia’s. Federal politicians would
benefit from Swedish exercises in more
ways than one. — Blurtinaxe (N.S.W.).
“Work-shy?”
A. Daly’s statements that young Aus-
tralians are “work-shy” (B. 26/7/’39) are,
to say the least, misleading. Admittedly
“the farmer, like the city housewife, seeks
in vain for workers,” but young Aus-
tralians are not wholly to blame. They
are not unwilling to work, nor are they
shy of it. They are simply carrying out
what seems to them quite legitimate
ambition.
If a boy is given what is known as “a
good education” he cannot help growing
up with the firm conviction that there is
no future for him in manual labor. To
take on such work, he thinks, is merely
consigning himself to a life of hard work,
small wages and little or no prospect of
advancement. His education has made
him believe he is fitted for something
better; his parents, in nine cases out of
ten, have always hoped he would believe
so, and have encouraged his belief (quite
naturally), and his teachers have done
likewise.
The answer to the question “Who is
going to do the spadework?” can only
be solved by a revision of the educational
system, which at present has the effect of
persuading impressionable youth that they
should seek “white-collar jobs,” and a
reconstruction of a social system that
Hearse-tralia?
Could it be possible that the Austra-
lian writer takes a gloomy view of life
in Australia because life in Australia is
gloomy? Look at Sydney after work-
ing hours, or on a Saturday afternoon
or Sunday; Melbourne is a trifle more
depressing ; Hobart even more so ; Perth
is not quite so bad, but Adelaide is tomb-
like.
That’s not all Australia, of course, but
go bush and what do you find? A
dead level of similarity—north or south,
east or west. The people are alike, they
make exactly the same remarks, and they
have the same outlook.
There is no background in Australia,
so there is no consciousness of anything
like “an Australian idea.” Australia has
no history that is Australian ; it has no-
thing it has not borrowed. There is no
record of a fight for liberty of any sort;
no revolution —nothing to show that any-
thing in the nature of an ideal ever
moved the people.
The average Australian may be cheer-
ful, but this, in itself, is rather a nega-
tive characteristic. The Australian may
be cheerful, but he is also dull. He is
not pliable material for a writer to
handle. If I say he is not all there I
only mean he is not alert or wideawake.
Nationally speaking, the Australian really
does not know where he is, what he
means or where he is going. And he
gives the impression that he is too
damned lazy to do anything about it. —
FGERALD DILLON
(N.S.W.).


gives negligible protection to manual
laborers.
A close and practical study should be
made of social conditions, with particular
emphasis on the facts that performing
manual labor is not a disgrace, and that
manual laborers are a necessity to the
State. Further, and more important, a
decent living wage for manual laborers
should be fixed, and something done
about the removal of the unemployment
spectre.— Desmond Thornton (Q.).
Criminal Youth
A stipendiary magistrate at Parramatta,
sentencing two unemployed young men to
six months’ “hard,” sentences to be
pended, said that the unemployment
excuse had been done to death. “I
often wonder,” added the S.M., “Whether
the imposition of a short term in gaol
is not the proper manner in which to
deal with you young men, and so make
you appreciate your responsibilities in
life. All are criminals, and they offer
unemployment as an excuse.”
Right next to this report (“5.M.H.,”
10/8/’39) appear the headlines “Youth’s
Suicide. Tragic Note Left. ‘No Work,
No Money, No Friends, No Brains.’ ”
Followed the report of a coroner’s in-
quest on a dead youth who had written
“There’s nothing in this world for me.”
Apparently he had carelessly overlooked
his “responsibilities.”
It is interesting to compare the utter-
ance of the S.M. with that of George
Smith, former prison governor, with
years’ of gaol experience behind him.
Addressing the Y.M.C.A. on August 9
he said: “Poor homes and bad environ-
ment are the chief causes of crime. Out
of 400 young men under 25 years of age,
sentenced to two years’ imprisonment and
over, the criminal records of only 37
could not be traced to their home life.”
It is not, of course, the first time that
the youth problem has been ventilated in
the 0.F.M., but of all that have fallen
into the melting-pot this problem is un-
doubtedly the most pressing. It must be
hard for young men to appreciate their
responsibilities when they look round
them and see the leaders of the country
flagrantly neglecting theirs. An ever-
widening barrier is being created between
the unemployed and the more fortunate
members of the community, until, aided
and abetted by Red literature, any man
with a good job is, to them, just another
blasted capitalist.
It surely must strike philosophers as
odd that a country like this should harbor
so many unemployed. But where is the
solution? Give them jobs! Even if it
costs every penny in the Treasury, give
them something to do. In the long run
it would be a far better investment than
wheat bounties and State Parliaments.
Every lad out of a job is a patriot lost
to Australia, and if ever a country needed
patriots this one does. — Celt (N.S.W.).
No Uniforms
Although the position has improved,
there are still thousands of militiamen
without uniforms or incompletely out-
fitted.
Mustn’t it be a source of great amuse-
ment to other countries to learn that the
world’s greatest wool-producing country
is experiencing considerable difficulty in
providing its soldiers with uniforms? —
Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Mallee Farming
How hopeless does this “farming” in
the poorer mallee areas appear in the
eyes of the interested onlooker! As one
who takes a keen interest in the affairs
of my district I am both sorry and in-
dignant at the one time. Sorry for poor
old Sam Smith who has been put on a
1500-acre block which has already sent
two good farmers to the wall, and in-
dignant at a meddling Lands Department
that put him there.
Once set up on this miniature Hades
he is the target for agents who load him
up with sheep on (for them) a gilt-edged
mortgage. Half the time he is not aware
of the terms of his contract, and after
lambing and shearing very often finds
himself with nary a penny for the work
he has put in tending the jumbucks, to
say nothing of the pasturage on “his”
estate.
When he has spent a couple of years
shoot-cutting, scratching over the soil
with worn-out implements and clearing
up a few more hundred acres of scrub,
he is pushed off the block by some land-
hungry coot who wishes to put in an
additional 500 acres so that he will beat
his neighbor, who last year had 1251
acres of wheat.
Oh, yes, this is going on every month
of the year in these areas, and will con-
tinue to do so until some “human beings”
with an intimate knowledge of the con-
ditions are installed in place of the auto-
matons who constitute our present Lands
Department.—Res Observo (S.A.).
“Men’s” Jobs?
Women in men’s jobs” is again the
burden of many recent articles in the
press, so would it not be well to con-
sider the question dispassionately? That
some adjustment is necessary few will
deny, but the actual parrot-cry with its
unfair implications has little to recom-
mend it. Consider the aspects:
1. Men are the recognised providers for
the family, and as such (but only as such)
they should receive additional payment.
2. Men and women are equally citizens
of the State, and therefore each has an
equal right to work for his or her living
without discrimination.
3. Under existing conditions no father in
ordinary circumstances could contemplate
with equanimity the support of a family of
girls who did not contribute to the family
purse. Recently I heard the proprietor of
a large business exclaim bitterly: “Five
women to support! It wears a man to the
grave /”
4. The big majority of women taking
“men’s” jobs do so from force of circum-
stances, and here a pertinent query might
not be amiss, namely: “Who relegated the
interesting and progressive jobs to men,
and the irksome, unremunerative jobs to
women?” ' As regards married women, I
think the anger often expressed would
soften into admiration if it were realised
that a man’s earnings are often hopelessly
inadequate to provide for extra education if
his children are not to remain in a rut or
if unexpected illnesses come, at times to
undermine his health or leave a mountain
of bills behind.
5. The point is mostly overlooked—and
I notice by many male contributors to
The Bulletin —that most fond fathers
would feel extremely depressed if the only
avenue open to their well-educated
daughters was the dead-end one of house-
work—and why, indeed, should this be
considered the sole lit and proper place in
which a woman may exercise her am-
bitions? As constituted at present, a' girl
cannot enter into this work to earn hef
living without loss of prestige; the con-
ditions are chaotic, for there is no kind of
wages board. And, what is more important,
a girl in any kind -of domestic work has
little chance of forming friendships with
boys in callings which would make them
“good providers”—or not nearly to the
same extent as her sister going out into
the world to her work.
Equal pay for equal work would largely
solve the probem. Then competence,
whether in man or woman, would be
adequately paid for., and girls would not
oust their brothers by the mere fact of
cheapness. —Margaret Day (Tas.).
The Pioneers
Anent the pioneers, so freely men-
tioned in “0.F.M.” lately, I like the
forthright honesty of Syd, a newchum
who, suffering some privation and plenty
of hard work with us on a Riverina
clearing job, and constantly adjured to
remember what the pioneers put up with,
burst out one day: “Blank the blanky
pioneers! If they were fools enough
to do it, I’m not. And I won’t! They
had to put up with it in those days.
Things is different now. You can have
your ruddy job!” It made some of us
hardened bushwhackers do a bit of solid
thinking.—MB (N.S.W.).
I agree with “P.G.K.” (Q.) that
pedestailing the pioneer is all bunk. The
hardships they endured are city bright-
lights compared with the agony suffered
by workless men on the dole to-day.
In any case, where can the youth of
to-day pioneer? There’s not a damn’
spot between sunrise and sunset that
hasn’t been raked fore and aft by either
politicians looking for votes or go-getters
selling shares in crook companies. Just
fancy any man setting out now with the
proverbial bob in his “kick,” reaching
the sun behind the trees and staggering
home 25 years later with his whiskers
dripping diamonds and nuggets of gold.
—Aussie (N.S.W.).
What’s in a Name?
“A rose by any other name” may smell
as sweet, but a novel needs an attractive
name to help it across. Looking down
the list of entries for the S. H. Prior
Competition one title alone strikes me as
attractive. Many of the titles would
prejudice their chance of popularity.
Who would lift The Most Beautiful
Thing from the library shelf? Anyone?
Probably Hope and Treasure would also
remain untouched. Many a good book
has failed to attract readers because of
a poor title. Given this list in a library
circular, the book I would choose would
be And All the Trees Are Green, and,
failing that, Singing Valley, Leaves in the
Wind or The Rivers Run West. —F. U. F.
(W.A.).
Watchdogs of Democracy
Objections raised in Britain to a Par-
liamentary vacation of under two
months are a reminder of the fact that
our Federal Parliament is out of session
for half of each year. They manage
these things better in South America. In
Brazil, Chile and Uruguay a permanent
committee of the Congress goes on sit-
ting during the recess to keep an eye on
things. If we really believe in Parlia-
mentary government there ought to be
something of the kind in the Common-
wealth. And as long as we keep six State
Governments as well it might be as well
to have such a body to keep a watch on
Ministers during the vacations. — Tierra
del Sur (N.S.W.).
Why Blame Democracy?
No doubt we have too many Parlia-
ments, no doubt we are really amazing
blunderers, no doubt we are financially
unstable and mentally unsound, but why
blame democracy?
When things don’t go quite as we think
they should we straightway look for a
victim. The “Government” and “vested
interests” are the time-honored and easiest
of marks, for they are so beautifully
vague and nebulous.
However, in our new deep knowledge
of governmental systems, gleaned from
“Special Commentators” and similar ex-
perts on world affairs, we delve even
deeper into the mystic, and find “democ-
racy” to be the cause of all evils, past,
present and to come. Its conception is the
vaguest of all, and inane criticism really
can’t do it much harm, although a won-
derful outlet is provided for pent-up re-
pressions and dislikes. You can blame
anything on it from armament to Arma-
geddon.
I don’t uphold democracy as an end
in itself —I agree that it is only a road
by which we travel —but, though it is full
of ruts and potholes and false turnings,
it is, nevertheless, a serviceable and
reasonably comfortable road. Under
autocracy, aristocracy, tyranny,, liberal-
ism or anarchy, we should still have the
same evils and grievances that we have
now. In all probability we should have
many more with them.
It is not democracy that is responsible
for our troubles—it’s the democrats. —
Pip (Vic.).
Italian Immigrants
Where does “Ha-Ha Pigeon” (B.
9/8/’39) get the idea that no Australian
ever invites an alien from southern
Europe to his home as a visitor of
equal status to himself? And who told
him no Australian lad is game to brave
the ridicule of his crowd and love and
marry a girl from southern European
parents? If “Ha-Ha Pigeon” will pay
fares or lend me his gold pass I’ll take
him to a hundred houses in Sydney and
its suburbs where there are happy mar-
ried Aussie-Italian couples rearing all-
wool-and-a-yard-wide Aussiettes.
There is no line of demarcation be-
tween Australians and Italians such as
he insinuates ; it’s a furphy exploded by
those who have lived amongst Italians.
I’m one of them, and speak of a long
residence in North Queensland. The
public service, medical, legal and re-
ligious professions of Australia are
Studded with brilliant “cuttings” from
grafted Aussie-Italian stock. M. N.
(N.S.W.).
Homes and Defence
Placards in prominent places appeal
to the man in the street to join in the
defence of his home and country, a per-
fectly rational appeal—provided all
things are equal. Here in Queensland,
thanks to the Premier, in conjunction
with the co-ordinator-general, inter-
mittent relief-work has been abolished.
Hence many who for years just existed,
and whose status in this land savored of
the pariah,' now do an honest week’s
work for a fitting basic wage, and wives
who for a very long period struggled hard
to balance the weekly budget, find that
task now much less desperate.
But the men are generally sent to road-
construction works, mostly many miles
from their homes. It is an admitted
fact that their camps are comfortable
and everything possible, is done for their
welfare ; but on week-ends (work ceases
Friday night, - resuming Monday, morn-
ing) most of them can’t get home. The
nearest pub, the poker-schools all have
great attraction for men with idle hours;
often more is spent than they can
afford. * ; , : - , " -
In my opinion this could be remedied
by issuing cheap return train tickets
either monthly or bi-weekly.:.
Train services run to timetable
whether carriages: are full or not, and
often a trip shows a loss. Cheap fares
would in such cases help the railways
and help the relief-workers.
The sequel to the plan would be an
incentive for a man to enlist to protect
the home he sees and not the one he
dreams about. —J. McMillan (Q.).
Why They Didn’t Fight
The answer to “L.E.’s” question, “Why
didn’t the people of Czechoslovakia fight
when challenged by Hitler?” is: Czecho-
slovakia was not a national State.
It was' a synthetic creation, carved
from the old Hapsburg Empire at the
end of the Great War at the behest of
a clique of Czech intriguers who had
great influence with President Wilson.
He was primarily responsible for Czecho-
slovakia-
Three Slavonic peoples the Czechs,
Slovaks and Ruthenes were incor-
porated in the new State, as well as many
Germans, Poles and Hungarians the
last three sections living mainly in dis-
tricts on the borders of Germany, Poland
and Hungary respectively.
None of the races that formed the
population of Czechoslovakia was in the
majority. The Czechs constituted the
largest minority. When the State was
created they contrived to get control of
the machinery of government. The other
races resented Czech domination. Ger-
mans, Poles and Hungarians wanted the
districts in which they predominated to
be ceded to those countries. Slovaks and
Ruthenes, who, though cousins to the
Czechs, hated them, wanted autonomy.
All were prepared to support Germany
and her associates, Poland and Hungary,
last September, when they threatened to
invade Czechoslovakia unless the Ger-
man, Polish and Hungarian areas were
surrendered.
As Czechoslovakia was surrounded by
these countries —except for a small
stretch of border contiguous with
Rumania—and they could bring over-
whelming force against the Czech
minority, the latter would simply have
committed suicide had it sought to resist.
Czechoslovakia’s end in March this
year was due to continued dissensions
between the Czechs and the Slovaks and
Ruthenes, which gave Germany, Poland
and Hungary the excuse to intervene and
cut up the country. — Den (N.S.W.).
Commonsense
I agree with “The Grin” (B. 21/6/’39)
that, many an ugly situation can be saved
by a. timely joke and its consequent
laughter. But commonsense is the most
valuable asset at critical discussions.
Some commonsense Europeans should
attend the meetings of their war-lords
and say: “Aren’t we fools? Fools to
send our valiant youth to certain death?
Fools to condemn our people to
agonies of mind and body? Fools to
incite wholesale murder? Fools to al-
low our priceless irreplaceable treasures
to be destroyed? This way madness lies.
Aren’t we fools'?”—F.G.F. (W.A.).
Bees and Trees ,
One is often forced to wonder why
various movements that have some of
their interests parallel do not co-operate
more. For instance, the various wild-life-
preservation and save-the-trees campaigns
might well co-operate with the commer-
cial • “eat-more-honey” movement.
The more trees there are the better it
would be for the apiarists. The more
honey eaten the more bees the apiarists
would keep ; consequently more blossoms
would be fertilised. Also, apiarists would
be encouraged to support schemes for
planting and preserving trees.
Indeed, should the tree and flora move-
ments put this idea into practice and co-
operate with the eat-more-honey move-
ment, we may yet see the toasts at the
annual dinners of their societies being
drunk in mead, the traditional beverage
made of honey.— Bee-Eater (S.A.).
Vocational Guidance
Among other suggestions recently ad-
vanced for alleviating youth unemploy-
ment was a system of vocational guid-
ance. If it resembles the guidance given
me by the N.S.W. Department of Labor
and Industry in 1934 it will be waste of
money.
After filling in a form requiring the
usual particulars I was given an ex-
amination paper consisting mainly of
elementary mental and ordinary arith-
metical surps and a simple dictation test.
Then I was asked to assemble a bicycle
bell, a lock, and a couple of other
“mechanical” jobs that any observant
child could have done with ease. An
eyesight test and a gauging of the
strength of both hands followed. Finally,
there was a personal interview with the
supervisor.
I was asked to write down what (a)
my father and (h) my mother wanted
me to be. When I said that I wanted
to be a journalist he was plainly dis-
concerted. The test had failed to reveal
that I possessed any aptitude for that
vocation, and I considered it of no bene-
fit whatever in determining what pro-
fession I should endeavor to enter.
Anyway, it would be futile to allocate
expenditure for vocational guidance
when there are multitudes of unemployed
youths who, whatever especial ability
they may possess, are willing to take any
sort of a job in preference to idleness. —
Petermac (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
“SUPER BARLING,”
22/6 Value for 14/11.
fdg
This “Super Barling” contains _a self-
cleansing and cooling system. Special Price
to “Bulletin” Readers W/ll
Genuine Vienna Meerschaum Pipe. Beauti-
fully packed. Honestly worth 30/-.
Special Price to “Bulletin” Readers, 17/6.
Goods Sent C.O.D. Rail or Post.
Good Tobacco Cheap.
Send Gd. stamps for Liberal Sample of
“Levysown” Quality Tobacco in Fine Cut
or Pipe at 7/- lb. Honestly worth 10/- lb.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 lvs. pkt., 2/4 doz. pkts
Zig-Zag Cigarette-making Machine, 1/-.
CHI I 17\/V Tobacconist. Est. 88 Years.
DkJL* LiCd V I t 713 George St., Sydney.
THE HANOMAG DIESEL
TRACTOR
1
Uses cheap
fuel.
The most
e c onomical
tractor o n
the market.
•
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. Pty., Ltd.,
243 Cleveland St., 355 William St.,
Bedfern, N.S.W. West Melbourne, Vic.
LAMBS SAVED
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord —
other hand closes instru-
ment. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe—and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
Trom all Agents or—
DAROUX EMASCULATORS,
74 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
1/
is
ifi
Mi
mm
'■ •>
JYINCftKUR
TWIN-SERVICE
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-Cell, 1500 ft.
Range
35/-
Range .... W-
Ceinplete with Batteries.
COWLES & DUNN,
7! KING Sl# SYDNEY.
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
A PERFECT TIMEKEEPER
*
DUSTPROOF
WATERPROOF
SHOCKPROOF
•
Ideal for Outdoors,
Sport, etc. Essen-
tially a man’s
watch. Not affected
by tropical climes. Guaranteed 10 Years.
Usually 75/-. Special to
“Bulletin” Readers, Post Free.fJ 4 ' O
Send for free illustrated watch and
diamond ring catalogue.
DIAMOND
& WATCH
SPECIALISTS
fd
112 MARKET 51
I SYDNEY.
OPR DAVIDJONES
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CASTLEBEAGH STREET, SYDNEY
[ THE WIGWAG CLOCK
THE PERFECT
TIME-KEEPER
VERY PRETTY AND
QUAINT
NO KEY NEEDED
Wound in a moment
by pulling the chain.
Price if 'post free, jj
Weight and chain
clocks have a great aci-
vantage over ail other
docks of being free
from Spring troubles
and lost keys. When
once regulated the old
fashioned weight and
chain clock can be de.
pended on to keep ac-
curate time for the rest
of its existence. Made
in the Black Forest 1
regulated before issue.
A
Each dock is carefully timed and
Obtainable only from
UNION MFG. & AGENCY CO, 299 Elizabeth St, Melb.
MEHow*Uh EASE
Memorise With Ease.
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes. -
Master Lodge Ritual.
Command Men and Affairs.
Tbe Stott Centre, 100 llussell Street,
Melbourne. Please forward free book
re the Lecds-liowlands Method.
Name
Address
S.B.
T .
A
ARZAN'S GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
ts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tamil's Grip Manufacturing
Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Willoughby Road,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES, 1/-
gfd
FOR HARD FINGER and
TOE NAILS 6/6
0
POSTED FREE FOR CASH.
W.JNO. BAKER
pxv.,
LTD.
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The Cutlery Specialists
m m
comfort.
STOPyour Rupture
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because 1 consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
14 DAYS FREE TRIAL
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27). 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CRICKET...
Bert Oldfield has just landeu
his 1939-40 range of fi
Cricket Material.
BATS
17/6
Best English
Willow, Treble
Rubber Handles, at
prices ranging from ....
Autograph Beg Guards, Balls, Wicket-
keeping Gloves, etc., comprise the most
up-to-date Stocks in Sydney.
Write for 1939-40 Cricket Catalogue.
W. A. OLDFIELD PTY., LTD.,
54 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
•r
BRIGGS sSTRATTON
AIK-COOLED
4-CYCLE
SINGLE-CYLINDER
PETROL MOTORS.
A to 5 HORSEPOWER
From £l7/10/-
Agents all States.
Price List gladly
forwarded.
gfd
aMPLIOh (A/SIA) PTY. LIMITED
382 Kent St.
IiPAGE:'
STOVES
» wmm%. $
BUNGALOWS i
pOUBLEIpyENS!:|
MKSltj
ffiEELONCB/ICI
FOR CgSYj!
,1 PAGE MFgTcOM^
cajEsao*
LAMB De-Tailer
(DAROUX PAT.)
A Surgical Instrument for Docking
Lambs. Saves lot' of blood by
closing blood vessels and glands.
Lessens Infection from Flies or
Germs, Heals Quickly, Reduces
Mortality, and Freezers say
improves carcases.
Price, £3/5/-
SEND FOR PAMPHLETS.
COUNTRY AGENTS WANTED.
DAROUX EMASCULATORS,
7-4 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
1
1
TIMBER KILLER !
KILIS TREES AND
STUMPS, Targe or Small,
IN 15 DAYS, FROM
ROOTS TO TOP. New
Method. NO RINGBARK-
ING NECESSARY. Quick,
Safe and Sure, 5/6 Tin,
Post Free, with full in-
structions. N.S.W. SEED
CO., 17A Pitt St., Sydney.
Mr. T. Murray, “Quandong Park,” Gilgandra,
writes: “The three tins of Timber Killer I
purchased from you a month ago I have had
really good results with. Please send me six
more tins.”
Mrs. M. Dawson, South Belgrave, Victoria,
writes: “I received the Timber Killer and am
well satisfied with the result. The trees are all
dead.”
N.S.W. SEEP CO., 17A Pitt Street, Sydney.
TREASURE
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
g
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
TUC
HANOI
PUMPLESS
IRON,
Price, 35 j m
DEMON
KEROSENE
STOVES.
dfg
KRONOS INCANDESCENT BURNERS
for Glass Bowl Lamps, Crude Oil Bath
Heaters. The latest invention. Write
for catalogue.
J. W. SANDS, 387 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
PIANO ACCORDEONS
Easy to play. Easy to learn.
12 Bass, 25 Piano Keys .. . £7
14 Bass, 31 Piano Keys . . . £l2
By Maggi & Co., of Italy:
80 Bass, 39 Piano Keys,
Coupler £lB
120 Bass, 41 Piano Keys,
Coupler £2O
Other Models from £25 to £75.
Guaranteed 6 months. Steel Seeds.
WE PAY FREIGHT.
D. J. MACARTNEY & CO.
14 Basement, Kembla Building,
58 Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
Te&tfoilfHcttfk
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible—
No wires—No batter'cs
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting: rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
I Suite HOIK, City Mutual
Building:, cnr. Hunter & Bligli Sts., Sydney ;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
m
A
Wrrto for Boole!
The GREAT WESTERN SADDLE
75/- BARE
(Mounts 101— extra.)
A splendidly - made
saddle into which the
best workmanship and
materials have gone.
Note the deep channel
illustrated in the sec-
tional drawing. This
enables a cool draught
of air to pass along
the horse’s back.
Freight Free in N.S.W.
Write for FREE
Saddlery Catalogue.
fdg
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
IH-3Q WILSON ST., NEWTOWN, N.S.W.
BALDNESS
Can Be
CURED!
Yeats of specialised
training and ex-
perience in treating
all types of bald-
ness have made
Edwin Holland one
of the most famous
— \
• V
- t
Hair Specialists in Australia, Write him
to-day with your hair problems.
EDWIN HOLLAND
349 Little Collins Street, Melbourne,
, (J.t.
0.11.1.
POST THI!
NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN" SERVICE COUPON
23/8/’39 (See Page 46)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants" to the Service Department, “The Bulletin ’’
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


DID
YOU
KNOW
7
■
Did you know that Mr. L. J. Keast
used a standard Ultimate Radio
when compiling a log of over 400
short-wave stations?
. . . . That this short-wave log was
featured recently in “Wireless
Weekly”?
. . . .That Ultimate Champion Radio
can enable you to listen to short-wave
stations you have never heard before,
can bring you news of the moment
easily, clearly, from overseas?
EUROPEAN STATIONS.
.. . .That Germany , for instance
broadcasts five news sessions in Eng-
lish every day?
. . . . That these sessions can be heard
on the following stations?
DJD—25.49 metres—
-5 a.m. and 7.10 a.m.
DJQ — 19.63 metres —
5 p.m., 10 p.m. and 12 midnight.
DJ8 — 19.74 metres —
10 p.m. and 12 midnight.
EASTERN STATIONS.
. . . . That news sessions in English
are broadcast over the following
Eastern stations?
JVWS T0ki0 — 25.6 metres —
-7.55 p.m.
Radio Saigon F.1.C. — 49.05 metres —
-9 p.m.
XGOY Chungkim — 2s.2 metres—
-9.15 p.m.
ZHP Singapore — 3o.96 metres—
-10 p.m.
KZRM Manila — 3l.3s metres —
-10.50 p.m.
HEAR THESE
NEWS SESSIONS
ON
ULTIMATE
Champion RADIO
-V:®
' '
\
■■■
wmmmm
o\'
,
PL
WmM ' .
W'
.
Get OVERSEAS NEWS
as clearly as local broadcasts
on the
ULTIMATE
Never has European history been stepped up to such a high tempo.
News to-day is entirely changed to-morrow. Keep in direct touch
with overseas situations with “ULTIMATE” Champion Radio.
“Ultimate” Champion Radio is custom-built to give matchless
performance. Every ultra-modern radio luxury is incorporated.
Overseas stations can be perfectly tuned, even by a child. Overseas
reception strength is equal to that obtained in ordinary sets from
local stations.
There is no “surge” „. . just crystal-clear reception, whether it’s
Moscow or Melbourne, Berlin or Adelaide. Models are available
for either A.C. or battery operation, and a cabinet choice of either
a full console or handsome mantel model. “Ultimate” Champion
radio costs nothing to test!
fLog Chart giving positive identification of over 400
overseas stations and details of “Ultimate” Champion
0 Radio.
NAME
ADDRESS
m m
k V i I
i
GEORGE BROWN &
267
CO. PTY., LTD.,
SYDNEY.
