

/
1
L
THAN®,
if
m
rrri nnmnumi
have#
n
lH tuf"*'
75
7
m
L
7
IM
I
ijV'-S
f
v/• is?## 1 *s»- /
*
ft
(Sjg
/ ri/
o
vs-9
r>?
* r
Fw3
' •*. 3
M
7s
< jt
7
£
1
f
/.
y
z
r r
"O
J
i/
,1
c/V
a
tJm
sit.
y*'®
y;
&
\
A
&5
&i
/
sifc
7
M
7
Ted Scorfield, famous "Bulletin"
artist, gives us this impression of his
favourite phrase "No, thanks. I'd
rather have a Red Capstan."
j
-o
k
m
SC
/
It's always time for a Capstan Special Mild in the RED Pack
10 for 6d. -20 for 1/- - Also flat and round fifties and hundreds
The Bulletin
Stalin Appeases Hitler—Uncabled Additions (Pages 28, 29)
Vol. 60. —No. 3095.
Wednesday, June 7, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S new library catalogue
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
W«eJog|£
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 239
The Red Page
YEATS THE ARISTOCRAT.
We that have done and thought,
That have thought and done,
wrote W. B. Yeats when he anticipated with horror
the withering of his talent in old age,
Must ramble, and thin out
Like milk spilt on a stone.
All his life he had wished to paint in verse the por-
trait of a man more passionately alive in body and
mind than the common run of humanity. “I carry
from my mother’s womb a fanatic heart,” he wrote
of himself as the political animal; “Love is like the
lion’s tooth” was the image in which he summarised
the life of the body ; “Everything that is not God”
was to be “consumed with intellectual fire” to satisfy
the fastidiousness of his mind. Was it all to be lost,
not tragically and heroically as he might have wished,
but grotesquely and sordidly in the indignity of
physical decay?
The fear was always with him. As a young man
he cried
All things uncomely and broken, all things worn out
and old,
Are wronging your image that blossoms a rose in the
deeps of my heart,
and 20 years before he died he was complaining
But I grow old among dreams,
A weather-worn marble triton
Among the streams.
Like Herrick, who made lyric after lyric on the theme
that he couldn’t make lyrics any more, Yeats beat his
fears into a song:
I thought no more was needed
Youth to prolong
Than dumb-bell and foil
To keep the body young.
O who could have foretold
That the heart grows old?
Yet the truth about Yeats, the fact that assured
him of lasting reputation, is that he never
“rambled and thinned out.” His heart never grew
old, and because he never allowed it to he was able
to make more exciting poetry out of the things “un-
comely and broken” he once despised than he was
ever able to draw from the image of “the- earth and
the sky and the water re-made like a casket of gold”
that gripped his imagination in his youth.
Here, in one of the loveliest of his early lyrics,
is the world “re-made,” reality lost in a poetic image:
Although you hide in the ebb and flow
Of the pale tide when the moon has set,
The people of coming days will know
About the casting out of my net,
And how you have leaped times out of mind
Over the little silver cords,
And think that you were hard and unkind,
And blame you with many bitter words.
And here, an echo years later of the same tragic love
affair, is the uncomely and broken thing not dimmed
in the Celtic Twilight but faced in the hard light of
day, transmuted, because he kept his heart young,
from ash and embers into living flame:
When day begins to break
I count my good and bad,
Being wakeful for her sake,
Remembering what she had,
What eagle look still shows,
While up from my heart’s root
So great a sweetness flows
I shake from head to foot.
In spite of his occasional lamentations, he knew,
or hoped, that in reality he had nothing to fear from
old age. In “The Tower” he faced his fear and stated
for himself the conclusion that his works prove
correct: —
What shall I do with this absurdity—
O heart, O troubled heart—this caricature,
Decrepit age that has been tied to me
As to a dog’s tail?
Never had I more
Excited ? passionate, fantastical
Imagination, nor an ear and eye
That more expected the impossible.
And the impossible happened. One would have to
go back to “Kubla Khan” to find anything more
“excited, passionate, fantastical” than “Byzantium”
in Yeats’s last published book, The Winding Stair : —
Astraddle on the dolphin’s mire and blood,
Spirit after spirit! The smithies break the flood,
The golden smithies of the Emperor!
Marbles of the dancing floor
Break bitter furies of complexity,
Those images that yet
Fresh images beget,
That dolphin-torn, that gong-tormented sea.
To the very end he refused to yield to his years.
Many poems written after The Winding Stair (there
will certainly be a posthumous book) were published
in the London “Mercury,” and the editor writes in
an obituary notice, “All who saw W. B. Yeats from
time to time in his last year of life agree that his
was a splendid ending, the masterly conclusion to a
life filled with poetry and poetic living from early
manhood to the end. No flagging in his mental
power, no poetic repetition, but a constant passing on
from one phase of imaginative excitement to an-
other.” Certainly there was no lack of fire in the
recent poem that built out of the commonplace
image of a coat on a coathanger all the terror of
death —
Fifteen apparitions have I seen,
The worst a coat upon a coathanger—
nor in a last acceptance of the bitterness of life (was
the concluding metaphor unconsciously borrowed
from Edith Sitwell’s “Gold Coast Customs”?):
Now that my ladder’s gone
I must lie down where all the ladders start
In the foul rag-and-bone shop of the heart.
Because he would not “cease from mental fight
even in his old age, Yeats was credited in an intro-
duction to an anthology of contemporary verse with
having “bridged the gap between the old century
and the new,” and he has had a great deal of admira-
tion from new writers for the achievement. It is true
that he is profound enough to interest the keenest of
contemporary intellects, but it is utterly false to
relate him to any “movements” that have affected
poetry since he outgrew the school of Dowson and
Johnson. His was a personal poetry. Whatever he
may have suggested to the contrary in his introduction
to the Oxford Book of Modern Verse, his own writing,
intimate and aristocratic, is diametrically opposed to
the impersonal and “proletarian” poetry that is
fashionable to-day.
Asked for a war poem, he answered:
I think it better that in times like these
A poet’s mouth be silent, for in truth
We have no gift to set a statesman right;
He has had enough of meddling who can please
A young girl in the indolence of her youth,
Or an old man upon a winter’s night.
If he had been asked for a “crisis” poem, he had his
answer already written:
We, who seven years ago
Talked of honor and of truth,
Shriek with pleasure if we show
The weasel’s twist, the weasel’s tooth.
As for “the masses,” he could take a romantic’s
delight in rogues and beggars, but when he had had
to endure “the daily spite of this unmannerly town,”
when “indignant at the fumbling wits, the obscure
spite” of old Paudeen in his shop he had sought relief
among the stones and thorn-trees, he had more know-
ledge of human ill-nature than “faith in human
nature.” He wrote, “Upon a House Shaken by the
Land Agitation”:
Although
Mean rooftrees were the sturdier for its fall,
How should their luck run high enough to reach
The gifts that govern men, and after these
To gradual time’s last gift, a written speech
Wrought of high laughter, loveliness and ease.
The core of his social philosophy and the best esti-
mate of his contribution to letters lie in the verse:
I know what wages beauty gives,
How hard a life her servant lives,
Yet praise the winter’s gone:
There’s not a fool can call me friend,
And I may dine at journey’s end
With Landor and with Donne.
Beneath his veneer of good manners, Yeats was
as violently opposed to the spirit of this age as is
that Wild Colonial Boy Roy Campbell. That he
should hate the rabble is easy enough to understand ;
but where did he get the worship of aristocracy that
sometimes makes him look like a survival from the
eighteenth century? How did he contrive to retain
his integrity against the onslaughts of the steam-
engine and the motor-car, the tank and the aeroplane,
Hopkins, Kaiser Bill, the Georgians, Pound and Eliot,
Hitler and Mussolini, Marx and the Communist
poets? The question is as interesting as the other
“problem” of Yeats’s poetry —the phenomenon of his
increase of lyrical power in his old age. These are
aspects of the same riddle, and the answer to it,
simple enough, is stated a score of times in his verse
and in his autobiography. It was a matter of pose;
he believed with all the intensity of which he was
capable that both life and art could and should be
regulated by deliberate choice:
I was about to learn that if a man is to write lyric
poetry he must be shaped by nature and art to some
one of half a dozen traditional poses, and be lover
or saint, sage or sensualist, or mere mocker of all
life.
All of Yeats’s merits as a poet, and all his faults,
are implicit in that credo. A poet by nature, he strove
to be even more of a poet by art; passionate by
nature, he cultivated passion; a mystic, he cultivated
mysticism to such an extent that his Vision is prac-
tically unreadable ; a hater of the mob, he made a
cult of aristocracy. Sometimes his art imposes too
obviously on nature and the verse becomes artificial.
A poem will become merely a fayade. Here is Yeats
in the great traditional pose of unhappy lover, here
is Yeats in the great traditional pose of aristocrat in
art and life —but where is Yeats the man?
History will never give to Hopkins the honored
place that will be reserved for Yeats, but the placing
of one of Hopkins’s sonnets against the Yeats of
The Wind Among the Reeds demonstrates how one,
expressing naked agony, made poetry, and how the
other, watering down his despair to suit the idiom
of the Rhymers’ Club, made it soft and sad and a
much lesser thing, however beautiful. Hopkins is
Man in travail:
I wake and feel the fell of dark, not day.
What hours, O what black hours we have spent
This night! what sights you, heart, saw; ways you went!
lam gall, lam heartburn. God’s most deep decree
Bitter would have me taste: My taste was me;
Bones built in me, flesh-filled, blood-brimmed the curse.
Self-yeast of spirit a dull dough sours. I see
The lost are like this, and their scourge to be
As I am mine, their sweating selves; but worse.
Yeats, out of emotion that may have been as great,
produces a fine poem, but it is too “literary” to be
major art:
When you are old and grey and full of sleep,
And nodding by the fire, take down this book,
And slowly read, and dream of the soft look
Your eyes once had, and of their shadows deep;
And bending down beside the glowing bars,
Murmur, a little sadly, how Love fled
And paced upon the mountains overhead
And hid his face among a crowd of stars.
Yeats himself knew the artificiality of this first
pose, in which —sometimes imitating Swinburne (I
would that we were, my beloved, white birds on the
foam of the sea”), more often lost in his own Celtic
Twilight and the professional melancholy of Dowson
and Johnson—he wrote his faery narrative poems and
his early lyrics. But it was a natural pose— as inevit-
able in a young poet of his time as the lock of blacK
hair he let hang over his eyebrow and the huge blue-
black bow-tie he wore to match.
The next stage was that of the aristocrat. The
earlier stand is justified and the new one established
in:
We were the last romantics—chose for theme
Traditional sanctity and loveliness;
Whatever’s written in what poets name
The book of the people; whatever most can bless
The mind of man or elevate a rhyme ;
But all is changed, that high horse riderless,
Though mounted in that saddle Homer rode
Where the swan drifts upon a darkening flood.
It was a curious phase. Yeats seemed always to be
having afternoon-tea with distinguished old ladies:
Though Margery is stricken dumb
If thrown in Madge’s way,
We three make up a solitude;
For none alive to-day
Can know the stories that we know
Or say the things we say.
If he had taken up his attitudes without real
feeling behind them, history might say of him as it
says of Gray, “He never spoke out.” One recalls
the rigid suppression from his autobiography of every-
thing relating to his love affairs. As he put it himself:
I could recover if I shrieked
My heart’s agony
To passing bird, but I am dumb
From human dignity.
But always there was genuine feeling beneath the
pose. Sometimes he did “shriek.” Out of the mists
of the Twilight broke lyrics as pure as:
I wander by the edge
Of this desolate lake
Where wind cries in the sedge:
Until the axle break
That keeps the stars in their round
And hands hurl in the deep
The banners of East and West,
And the girdle of light is unbound,
Your breast will not lie by the breast
Of your beloved in sleep.
And the aristocrat, on a political prisoner who had
fed a seagull from the window of her cell, had this
to say:
When long ago I saw her ride
Under Ben Bulben to the meet,
The beauty of her countryside
With all youth’s lonely wildness stirred
She seemed to have grown clean and sweet
Like any rock-bred, sea-borne bird:
Sea-borne, or balanced on the air,
When first it sprang out of the nest
Upon some lofty rock to stare
Upon the cloudy canopy,
While under its storm-beaten breast
Cried out the hollows of the sea.
Here the two poses, romantic and aristocrat,
meet and are one. To explain the fire and freedom
of The Winding Stair and the later lyrics, it can be
suggested that in Yeats’s old age art and nature,
pose and the man coalesced. He had cultivated pas-
sion, aristocracy, philosophy: now, at last, “the fin-
ished man” was passionate, noble and wise. Except
to the extent that he had absorbed his poses, more-
over, the need to pose was gone. His reputation was
established; he had an old man’s detachment; for
the first time he could say exactly what he liked, and
the years of spiritual and technical discipline enabled
him to say it with marvellous power.
All the dark side of his nature, the accumulated
bitterness of his experience, suppressed until the years
had let him discover the beauty in “things uncomely
and broken,” flamed into speech. The “Words for
Music, Perhaps,” with their refrains that really do
sound like wild truths cried to him by the familiar
spirits of whose existence he was so confident, are
unique in English poetry:
Curse as you may, I sing it through;
What matter if the knave
That the most could pleasure you,
The children that he gave,
Are somewhere sleeping like a top
Under a marble flag?
I carry the sun in a golden cup,
The moon in a silver bag.
There is this last splendid manifesto, at once an
acceptance and a defiance of the common human
experience:
I am content to live it all again
And yet again, if it be life to pitch
Into the frog-spawn of a blind man’s ditch,
A blind man battering blind men;
Or into that most fecund ditch of all,
The folly that man does
Or must suffer, if he woos
A proud woman not kindred of his soul.
I am content to follow to its source
Every event in action or in thought;
Measure the lot; forgive myself the lot!
When such as I cast out remorse
So great a sweetness flows into the breast
We must laugh and we must sing,
We are blest by everything,
Everything we look upon is blest.
In this poem he is truly the aristocrat; not
merely the admirer of great houses “where all’s ac-
customed, ceremonious,” but an aristocrat of the
human spirit, invincibly gay, magnificently arrogant
Was it not the knowledge that he was “speaking out
fully for the first time that kept Yeats working in a
fever to the end? By so doing he made a complete
statement—one that must satisfy not only the girl in
the indolence of her youth, but the critic on the
bleakest of winter nights.
(“Red Page” continued on page 8.)


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
ANTHONY
HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
OUR HUGE STOCK OF
WORK TROUSERS
AT SALE PRICES
Standard qualities, renowned for their
dependability. When ordering please
state side or cross pockets. 30 to 46 in.
waists. Larger sizes a little extra.
Regularly—
-8/11 10/6 12/9 14/6 16/9 17/9 21/- 25/-
SALE—
-7/11 9/6 11/9 13/6 15/6 16/6 19/6 23/6
!6 X 9 LUMBER JACKETS
All Wool Lumber Jackets, warm and com-
fortable. Button Cuffs, elastic waist, two
pockets, smart lumber checks. Price 16/9
SALE PRICE 14/9
14/9
■m
*>
m
m
m
m*
v
til
m
m
m
m
m
' $
m
m
m
m
fil
m
m
Mi
m
m
mm
m
m
m
<m
m
&&&
m
' V V
m
m
m
/
4
\
\
*
¥
mW
r\
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
•Phone M 2401, Day or Night.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
HALF
YEARLY
GENUINE
SALE
NOW ON
£B / 8 / -
TO
£lO/10/-
SUITINCS
TO MEASURE
SALE PRICE
£6 / 9 / 6
English, Scotch and
Australian suitings.
All new patterns and
colours, best quality
throughout, tailored
in our best possible
manner. Be early and
secure the best
selection.
Regular Prices —
£B/8/- to £lO/10/-
SALE PRICE ... £6/9/6
Sale of OVERCOATS
84/- ALL WOOL TWEFD TOPCOATS AT
Well tailored double or single breasted
styles, art. silk linings, all 1939 Coats. New
Greys, Fawns, Browns, etc. Price 847-
SALE PRICE 49/6
49'6
75/- NAVY BLUE D.B. TOPCOATS NOW
All wool, fast navy dye, smart form fitting
styles, tailored in our best possible manner.
A smart, dressy, warm, overcoat. Price, 75/-
SALE PRICE 59/6
59 / g
84/- LEATHER OVERCOATS NOW AT
Real Hide, dark brown in colour. Double breasted
style, with storm collar and belt. Strong linings.
Big selection of these popular Coats all reduced.
Prices 84/- 90/- 110/- 126/- 147/-
SALE PRICES 79/6 84/- 105/- 115/- 135/-
79/6
55/- ALL WOOL TWEED TOPCOATS NOW
A real bargain that cannot be repeated, splendid
quality in these all wool Tweeds. Double breasted
form fitting styles, neat patterns, and art. silk
linings. Price - 55/-
SALE PRICE 39/6
39/6
• Men’s Clothing and Tailoring—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.


Bright Comedy
THE
FIRE-ENGINE
OF
TREACLE
CREEK
by J. B. Blair
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
WHEN the fire-engine arrived in Treacle Creek,
Mallyon, who had originally inspired the
fund to buy it, had been dead twenty-five
years. He had been the first manager of
the sugar-crushing mill in the early years of the cen-
tury, and with confident hopes for the future growth
of the town he had persuaded his company to guar-
antee a pound-for-pound subscription towards the
cost of an up-to-date fire-engine, the balance to be
raised by public-spirited citizens.
After a first enthusiastic burst of generosity sub-
scriptions came along very tardily. Mallyon went
to his grave saddened by the knowledge that the fund
was still far below the total required, and that, with
modern advancements in fire-fighting appliances, the
cost of the projected engine was soaring every year.
With Mallyon was buried most of the enthusiasm
for his scheme. The money collected stayed in the
bank, and for a few years was increased at infrequent
intervals by small sums raised by whist drives, euchre
parties and other innocuous means. Then came the
war, and even these sources failed, so that gradually
the fund itself was almost forgotten except by the
savings-bank clerk whose job it was to add the interest
to the account from year to year.
Through the services of this young man, time
and compound interest would probably have one
day given the town its fire-engine without further
donations, but, just as the death of Mallyon had slowed
up the accumulation of the necessary money, so the
death of Patrick Carew made further waiting unneces-
sary. Carew, dying in South Africa, bequeathed a
sum “sufficient to complete the purchase of the Mall-
yon fire-engine for the town of Treacle Creek.”
The bequest, the lawyers pointed out, should have
been paid over five years previously, but it had taken
all that time to locate Treacle Creek. “Why didn’t
they ask me? 1 ” said old Peter Lambkin, the night-
watchman at the sugar mill. “I could’ve told ’em.
Thirty-seven year I been here. Why didn’t they come
to me?”
However apathetic the citizens of the Creek might
have been on the subject of fire-prevention in the
past, their enthusiasm now that the price was forth-
coming was unbounded. A deputation to the mill-
owners was assured that the company would honor
its thirty-year-old promise, and a volunteer fire
brigade was formed. There was much telegraphing,
’phoning and cabling, and the legal firm handling the
Carew estate agreed to attend to the purchase of the
engine—“the most up-to-date procurable, together with
all necessary apparatus.”
The day the engine arrived was a gala day in the
history of Treacle Creek. The members of the brigade
quickly unpacked the case of uniforms which accom-
panied it, and, attired in full regalia, assisted with will-
ing hands and wagging tongues to unload their engine.
The fire-engine’s first journey through the town
was in the nature of a triumphal progress. Frequent
stops were necessary for the purpose of listening to
speeches of praise and encouragement by leading citi-
zens, and the engine was christened not once but
many times before it reached its new home.
TO this day a large body of opinion in Treacle
Creek maintains that the engine should never have
been used until its crew had been properly trained and
had become thoroughly conversant with their job.
Another school of thought, while admitting the sound
principle behind this opinion, asks how any self-
respecting fire brigade with the latest and most up-to-
date fire-fighting equipment at their disposal could pos-
sibly be expected to stand idjy by when houses were
going up in flames and smoke on all sides.
The philosophers of the town, to whom the career
of the fire-engine now appears as merely a transitory
incident in the history of the Creek, maintain that it
was just a prank of Providence that an epidemic of
fires occurred immediately after the arrival of the
engine.
The first conflagration was reported not half an
hour after the new engine had drawn up outside the
station.
“Taylor’s shop’s on fire! Fetch the brigade! ’
came the urgent cry.
The brigade, resplendent in their new uniforms,
were busy examining their engine. Captain Sullivan
at once became the man of action.
“Stand back there. Man the engine!”
The crew obeyed—not exactly with the precision
born of long practice, but at any rate with alacrity.
That is to say, four of them fought for the honor of
driving, and big Jock Donaldson won. The other
three crowded in near him in the apparent hope that
he might fall out on the way to the fire, and the rest
of the crew leaped aboard and hung on in whatever
position seemed to them to give the greatest impres-
sion of devil-may-care recklessness.
Captain Sullivan, from a position just behind the
four drivers, gave the word ; the engine plunged for-
ward, and with siren screeching and gongs a-clatter
dashed off towards the main street, followed by those
of the crowd who had been unable to secure a hand-
or foothold before she started.
The scene of the fire was soon reached—and
passed. Driver Donaldson was so enjoying the novelty
of driving all out with everyone making way for him
that he had gone a hundred yards past Taylor’s burn-
ing store before he reluctantly brought the vehicle to
a standstill.
“Not here, you fool!” shouted Sullivan. “Take
her back!” Donaldson turned his charge and raced
back to the fire.
The brigade had so far managed without a mishap.
As any schoolboy knows, it doesn’t take much training
to ride a fire-engine. Handling fire-hose, however, is
a different matter. Half the crew gave the impression
that they were paying out a lifeline to a drowning
man, and the other half seemed to think they were
engaged in a tug-o’-war. The fact that the crowd of
onlookers were pressing in upon the brigade did not
help matters much. The hose, held, tugged and pushed
by eager but awkward hands, threaded its way through
the crowd like a huge snake.
Meanwhile Taylor’s shop was providing as good
a blaze as had ever been seen in the town. Like most
of the buildings in Treacle Creek, it was of wood and
iron.
The town’s method of coping with fires had
hitherto been simple, if ineffective. It was based on
the cardinal assumption that a house on fire was a
house destroyed, and that attempts to save it were
useless. All efforts, therefore, were concentrated on
saving as much as possible of the movables and
preventing the spread of the fire to adjoining buildings.
Taylor’s fire marked an abandonment of this
policy. Although the proprietor and his two assistants
worked feverishly rescuing things from the shop, the
townspeople, who ordinarily would have rushed to
their aid as a matter of course, stood idly by waiting
for the arrival of the brigade. There seemed to be a
feeling that to adopt the usual tactics would be equiva-
lent to doubting the new engine’s ability to cope with
the situation.
“She’ll be out in no time,” said one honest Treacle
Creeker when the brigade at last arrived.
“Yes,” agreed another. “A drop of water’ll soon
fix ’er.”
The crew were still struggling with the hose. The
water main had been located, and an attempt was
being made to attach the hose.
“Hurry! Hurry!” called Sullivan. “Look smart
there. Connect it! ”
He seized the nozzle and stood ready. The crowd
watched expectantly. Then all of a sudden the hose
came to life. More like a giant snake than ever, it
writhed and twisted as the sudden force of water
rushed through it, virtually wrenching itself from the
grip of its holders, bowling them over in its contor-
tions.
Sullivan had no warning of what was coming.
To use bis own words when he was later recounting
the episode, “There was I holding the nozzle firmlike,
pointing her at the flames and waiting for the water
to come through. All of a sudden she gives a hell of
a twitch, and I get the whole issue full in the chest.
I’m knocked down by the force, see —winded —and
that damned hose twists itself round and souses me
again while I’m lying on the ground.”
The captain was helped to his feet, his helpers
themselves getting drenched in the act. Various per-
sons attempted to seize the hose near the nozzle, but
as others were trampling on it further back it con-
tinued to act like a live thing, squirting a powerful
jet of water now this way and now that, until most
of the crowd were wet to the skin.
Up to this stage no water at all had reached the
flames, though a considerable quantity had played
upon the goods and furniture that Taylor and his
assistants had managed to save from the blaze. Cap-
tain Sullivan with difficulty recovered his breath and
endeavored to instil some order into the enthusiastic
but awkward efforts of his henchmen.
“Steady now, boys! Take it easy! Stand back
there. Back, please. Now, come on, hold her. You,
Tom and Mac, lend me a hand here.”
The hose was gradually got under control and
directed towards the burning building.
There was a loud cheer as the stream of water
at last reached its objective, but this quickly gave
way to a shout of apprehension.
“Look out! She’s falling.”
Simultaneously the front wall collapsed and the
roof fell in. The spectators and the brigade retreated
just in time to escape the falling debris. Flames leapt
high into the air.
“You flaming fools!” shrieked Taylor above the
din. “You’ve knocked it down!”
The brigade ignored his protests, and once again
directed the hose towards the doomed building.
4 < | T’S practice we need,” the captain told his men
' after they had dried themselves and the engine
was safely installed in its shed.
He meant the sort of practice that consists of
drill and training, but Fate seemed to think that prac-
tice under active-service conditions would be more
effective, for the very next day, when the brigade had
just assembled for their first drill, a second urgent
alarm was sounded.
“A dwelling in Crystal-street,” announced Sulli-
van. “Spring to it, boys.”
Crystal-street was in the less prosperous part of
the town, and was inhabited mainly by Italian and
Southern European millworkers. The was
in a perpetual state of disrepair, and the street, a very
narrow one to start with, had been made more so by
the habit its residents had developed of encroaching
on the road with their verandahs and lean-tos. It was
a feat demanding considerable skill and nerve to steer
even a baby car down Crystal-street; to a truck or
lorry the passage was impossible. This fact did not
deter the fire brigade; probably it did not even occur
to them. The call came, and within a few minutes
they were turning at top speed into Crystal-street.
As the road narrowed Captain Sullivan began to
have his doubts. “Steady down,” he said to Driver
Donaldson. “We can’t get through.”
Donaldson replied by shoving the accelerator
down hard.
Two verandah posts were carried away, and the
crew dodged smartly as the galvanised-iron roof clat-
tered down on the engine and bounced off on to the
road. Donaldson veered to the left, and down came
a verandah on that side of the street. Excited and
indignant Italians shrieked their disapproval. Shaking
itself free of the obstruction, the engine kept on its
course. Twenty yards of picket fence went down like
matchwood ; but by now the fire was in sight, and
with the smell of smoke in their nostrils the brigade
were determined to save the burning house even if
they had to smash every other place in the street to
get to it.
Heedless of the barrage' of imprecations in all
the languages Crystal-street could muster, they battered
their way through the few remaining obstructions and,
leaving behind them a trail resembling the wake of
a tornado, arrived at the fire and sprang eagerly into
action.
The house was blazing merrily. Out came the
hose, eager hands rushing it across the street.
Sullivan spurred them on. “Quick! Screw her
on, boys. Where’s that hydrant?”


This was just what the boys were beginning to
wonder.
“The hydrant!” repeated Sullivan, appealing to
the crowd.
Uncomprehending faces stared at him. Heads
were shaken.
“Hydrant!” he said again. “Tap! Water!
Where’s the main?”
“Wasser? No wasser this-a street,” he was told.
“What! No water at all?”
“No. No wasser. Plenty in Saccharine-street.
No wasser here.”
Saccharine-street was a quarter of a mile away,
and even though the engine was the most up-to-date
model in Australia the captain doubted its ability
to throw a stream of water that distance with any
degree of accuracy.
“No go, boys,” he said glumly. “Put the hose
back.”
The onlookers, who had crowded round the fire-
engine eager to see it in action, registered noisy dis-
approval. The fire chief defended his crew and appa-
ratus as best he could. “How d’you expect us to put
out a fire without water?” he demanded.
“Plenty wasser in Saccharine-street.”
“Well, go and drown y’rself in it,” returned one
of the crew.
“Stow it, boys. We’ll have to clear the joint next
door.”
Clearing meant stripping the house of all mov-
ables in case the fire should spread to it. The crowd
had made no attempt to do this, trusting to the arrival
of the brigade to put out the first house before the
fire spread.
Anxious to do something to justify their presence,
the firemen rushed into the adjoining house and set
to work. Tables, chairs, beds, crockery, pots and
pans rapidly emerged from the house and were stacked
in the road. Two shiftworkers who had slept through
the noise of the fire next door and the din outside
were rudely awakened by eager helpers anxious to
get their beds outside. Hastily tumbling into some
clothes, they followed the furniture-removers into the
daylight, still half-asleep and struggling to make up
their minds whether they were the victims of an evic-
tion or merely an air raid.
Beds, blankets, bedding and curtains were added
to the collection. A wardrobe had presented some
difficulty, so the drawers had been taken out of it
and carried separately, shedding clothes and oddments
all over the road. The rescuers were determined that
nothing that could possibly be saved should be left
to the flames.
“Up with those linos,” ordered the captain. “Grab
that dresser.”
Three men staggered out with a kitchen side-
board, on the top of which open tins of jam, a dish
of butter, milk, half a loaf of bread and portion of
a leg of lamb were mingled in glorious confusion.
Others brought out linoleum which, obedient to Iheir
leader’s order, they had ripped from the floor. Puff-
ing and triumphant they turned once more to the fire
as if to say “There! Spread to that house if you want
to. We’ve saved the contents.”
The burning house now presented a very different
aspect from that of a few minutes previous. The
symphony of a conflagration in wood and iron is set
at a very rapid tempo. It rises quickly to a crescendo
of flame and fury promising great things ; the move-
ment culminates suddenly in a crashing entry of walls
and roof; it wavers, rallies a little, then fades away
into a medley of smouldering debris.
The Crystal-street fire was approaching the height
of its crescendo when the brigade began their rescue
work. The crash had occurred somewhere between
the mattress and the jam, and when the firefighters
had time to look once more at the burning house it
had reached the anticlimax stage, and two Italians, in
a spirit that must have seemed to any fair-minded out-
sider very like kicking an enemy when he was down,
were spraying it with chemical fire-extinguishers.
There was clearly no possibility of its spreading to the
house next door.
Superintendent Sullivan wasted no time. “Come
on, boys, get aboard,” he said. “We’ll go back to
the station.”
“What about these things, chief?” asked one of
the crew. “Hadn’t we better help put ’em back?”
“Put ’em back be damned!” roared Sullivan. “We
got them out, didn’t we? Let someone else put ’em
back! We’re firemen, not blasted interior decorators.”
FA URING the next few days the brigade practised
in earnest and began to feel that, given a supply
of water and a street wide enough to manoeuvre in,
they could give a good account of themselves. They
were, therefore, quite jubilant when they were called
out to a fire in the sugar shed at the mill.
“Plenty of water there and stacks of room to work
in,” said Sullivan as they hurried to the scene.
It was two o’clock in the morning, but the crew
had responded nobly to the call. The two men on
duty had the engine out of the shed when Sullivan
and the others arrived, and they wasted no time in
speeding to the burning shed.
It was well ablaze ; the fire had got a good grip
before it was noticed, and it seemed that the most
the firefighters could hope to do would be to confine
the damage to the portion already alight, and prevent
the flames from spreading to the thousands of sacks
of sugar stacked on the wharf.
The hose was run out in a workmanlike manner;
then the men paused. It looked as though the Crystal-
street experience was about to be repeated.
“Where’s the hydrant, chief?”
“Just over there. Hurry!”
The hosemen hurried there, and again drew a
blank. Then everyone began to offer advice. The
hydrant was near the shed. Search failed to reveal it.
It was on the far end of the wharf. It was not. It was
in the middle. No, not quite the middle. A little
further down. Had they tried that corner? This
side? That end? It was there last week. Meanwhile
the fire blazed on.
“Hang it all. There must be a hydrant some-
where,” said Sullivan. “I’ve seen it myself dozens
of times.”
A storeman supplied the solution. The sugar
had been stacked on top of it. It ought to be about
twenty yards from the shed. All hands set to work
to shift the sugar, and after ten minutes a small por-
tion of the wharf flooring was revealed. A larger
space was rapidly cleared, but not a trace of the
hydrant could be seen.
A mill official came to their assistance. “You’re
too near the shed. Try about ten yards further
down.”
Cursing all sugar-stackers, the firefighters fol-
lowed his advice, but without success. A third and a
fourth assault were made on the stack following further
helpful suggestions as to the location of the main.
Then someone had a brainwave. “You’ve got a
pump. Why not use salt water from the creek?”
No sooner said than done. The largest of the
breaches in the stack was widened a little more, and
the engine forced its way through to the edge of
the wharf. Once inside the stack they took it along
as near as possible to the blazing shed and got the
pump into action.
Loud cheers went up as a steady stream of water
was seen playing upon the flames. Treacle Creek’s
fire-engine was at last in action. The fire would
soon be under control.
Rejoicing, however, was short-lived, as very soon
the steady stream became a wavering one ; it rose and
fell, rose again, then, after a couple of valiant spurts,
petered out.
“The intake must be choked,” said Sullivan.
“Anyone know anything about these things?”
No one did, but everyone was prepared to learn,
and very shortly the pump was in process of being dis-
mantled.
Crash!
“Hell, what’s that?” Sullivan looked round.
The conveyer gear from the top floor of the shed
had fallen in flames on to the wharf.
“Can’t do anything till we get the pump going.
Keep at it.”
Ten precious minutes went by before the pump
was cleared and ready for action again. Once more
the hose was directed at the blaze, and hopes rose high
again. Then, as before, the stream wavered and died.
“Blast it! Another jam. Dismantle her, boys.”
The fire seemed to be biding its time, waiting for
holdups such as these. Hardly was the pump dis-
mantled when an outer wall of the building collapsed
and a mass of bursting, burning sacks of sugar
streamed down on the wharf.
Hastily the brigade withdrew its engine a few
yards. The portion of the wharf near the shed was
a blaze of flame. Molten sugar was creeping steadily
towards the engine, and pouring through cracks into
the water below the wharf. The fire on the wharf
was continually being reinforced by fresh avalanches
of sugar from the top floor, and the position of the
firefighters was rapidly becoming untenable. They
worked desperately to clear the pump.
Crash!
Another shower of burning sacks assailed them.
“All aboard!” cried Sullivan. “We’ll have to
clear out.”
Donaldson started the engine, then immediately
stopped. The sugar stacks through which they had
forced their way in were also ablaze, and a steady
wall of flame was advancing along the wharf towards
them from that end also. They were trapped.
“We’ll have to fix that pump!” Sullivan roared.
“Give me a hand.”
Donaldson leapt from his seat to aid his chief,
and rushed back to retrieve a vital part of the pump
which was lying near the edge of the wharf. As he
stooped to pick it up a sudden tongue of flame darted
up from beneath the wharf. With a yell of agony
Donaldson leapt high in the air, endeavored to regain
his balance, failed and toppled over into the water
with the pump part in his hands. When he came to
the surface his hands were empty.
The fire had gained so rapidly that it was impos-
sible to remain any longer on the wharf. With retreat
cut off and the last hope of fixing the pump gone,
Sullivan told his crew to follow Donaldson, and one
by one they plunged into the creek, the superintendent,
like a true captain, being the last to leave his post.
As he struck the water a loud explosion betokened
that the flames had reached the engine’s petrol tank.
From the cool conjfort of fishermen’s dinghies the
crew watched the end of their pride and joy. A while
longer and the little wharf yielded before the onslaught
and allowed the wrecked engine, accompanied by
several tons of blazing sacks, to slither gently into
the water.
Hr HE creek is very deep alongside the new mill —
* much deeper than is required to accommodate
the small river steamers that are the only callers at
the new concrete wharf —and dredging has never
been necessary there.
If you look over the edge of the new wharf on a
calm clear day you will see in the depths a queer
mass of twisted metal. It is all that remains of the
fire-engine of Treacle Creek.
Taylor s fire marked an abandonment of
the policy previously adopted for coping
with fires in Treacle Creek.


"WE CAN
GIT
MARRIED"
by A. C. Headley
ILLUSTRATED BY PHILLIPS.
DOWN at the ringside she watched him. The
board swinging over his corner offered the
information that he was Jim Meaney, nine-
stone three, and the length of the fight as
four rounds. Around her the blue cloud of cigar-
ette-smoke was thick. Men were talking, their voices
louder than necessary, waiting for the fight to begin.
“Used to be a pretty good boy once. ’Ad a coupla
goes for the championship.” They were talking
about Jim. “Drink an’ women, I s’pose, like the
rest of ’em. Back into four-rounders an’ takin’ beat-
in’s at that.”
Her eyes, steady on his corner, watched him.
She was conscious of her body knotting with the force
of nervousness. It was always like that when he
fought. He sat in the corner, staring dully at the
floor of the ring. His face was flat, his jaw heavy,
his eyes doubled back into his head sheltered behind
the two-jointed crumple of his nose. The ear close
to her was covered with knotted skin. He went to
the centre of the ring when the referee called them
together and stood listening with his head down, his
gloves tapping together ; a touch of gloves with his
opponent, a quick turn, and he was back in his
corner limbering with the ropes awaiting the bell.
She watched, her throat taut as he came out,
his feet sliding purposefully over the canvas. His
left propped, caught itself on a glove, and a retali-
atory punch hissed into the firm muscles of his body.
A quick shift and he scored with a left hook. Then
they were together, arms shortening to the body. He
danced away, drawing his opponent, his left stab-
bing. quickly, scoring. His back touched the ropes
and he was away, his body weaving through frenzied
gloves. A space now of wariness. They moved
around each other, waiting for the first movement.
Above the small noise of the crowd the sound of feet
on the canvas was audible. Jim led, but the other
slipped the punch and scored high to the head. Then
they were together for a sharp flurry of punches,
hard and quick. The bell!
The girl watched him come back to his corner.
Someone said, “Clever, ain’t ’e?”
SHE had met him before he had started fighting.
It was at a dance, a shilling dance, and he had
wanted to see her home. She could think of it now,
his nervousness. She had wondered whether he would
want to kiss her. They all did, and she had come
to accept it as an inevitable part of being “seen
home.” But he had stood there, shy and moving his
feet, talking about his job. And “Well, I s’pose I
better be goin’.” He had said it half a dozen times
before he turned away, walking slowly as though
aware of something left undone,
After that there were more nights after the
dance, and an occasional talkie, and at intervals he
would bring out, sheepishly, from somewhere in his
coat, a box of chocolates.
“Listen, Sadie, when I’m on full money we can
git married.” There was that, and she found no
fault with it. There was a year to wait until he was
twenty-one. Plenty of time for consideration ; not
that it was necessary, but people did sometimes
change their minds. A year to wait until he was on
full money, but it was something he never got.
That was the time people were beginning to talk
about the depression. It was different, not just like
business being bad, but the word had come in as a
living thought. Depression. Blame the depression
for everything, droughts and floods and underfed
kids. Depression. There were boys of seventeen who
could do his job for a lot less than full money,
It was easy to sit on the gas-box, with the wall
of the tiny house firm against your back, and talk of
getting a job. There would be a dozen places glad
of a man like him. “I know me job, Sadie. I’ll be
back in'work in no time, you see. I’ll go over
to Barker Brothers t’-morrer. I know Tommy Larkin.
’E’s a foreman. I might even git a start right away.”
He was still talking like that three months after,
but from there it tailed off into the inevitable depres-
sion talk. It was easier and as effective to play cards
with the groups in the parks as it was listening to
foremen saying they were sorry, and telling him how
many men were going off on Wednesday. There
were no jobs any more, no work for anyone,
That was when he started telling her lies about
looking for work. She knew they were lies, but she
said nothing, and bought tobacco for him. There
was a long time like this, and then he got the idea of
fighting. . . . - u . u 0
Some of the boys in the park were He
was w^en he told her. It s orright, Sadie.
She faced him, her mind fierce and tight. She
suddenly wanted to hurt him. “Jimmy,” she
said, “I’m sick of it. I’m sick of you Sick
to hell.”
I’ll be able to cop a bit of dough. There’s some of
’em I could beat wiv me ’and tied behind me back.
They git thirty bob for a four-rounder. An’ if you
git up to the top in this game, that’s where the
real dough is. Maybe I’ll be lucky.”
She knew nothing of fights and fighters, but she
listened to his rising enthusiasm and felt glad. It
was a change from the bitterness that had become
part of him.
“If I do orright we can git married.”
He had joined up with a gymnasium, and there
was a different attitude about him. Something clean
and resolute. There was something for him to look
forward to, and the comforting thought of money.
THEY came out from their corner-posts ready to
fight. But abruptly there was a difference. She
watched him. His hitting was sure, more certain,
and there were half a dozen punches before the other
boy laid a hand on him. His head bobbed and he
threw a punch to the other’s body. She could hear
the hiss of wind as it thudded home. Then he was
dancing away.
He was back quickly, stepping inside a looping
right, throwing quick punches. Her eyes were fixed
on him. It was a long time since he had fought like
this. When the round finished she heard someone
say “He’s good orright.”
SHE remembered his first fight, how nervous he’d
been. It was funny seeing him climb through
the ropes and stand blinking in the hard white light.
She remembered thinking that his boxing trunks
looked too big for him, and she had more than a
vague fear when she saw his opponent. He looked
ever so much bigger than Jim. But Jim won. It was
a knockout, sudden and unexpected. She had felt
like laughing at the relief of it, watching him, standing
back, waiting, his body glistening with sweat while the
referee counted. There was the roar of the crowd as
he shook hands with himself. They liked him.
There were more fights —sometimes three and
four a week. At thirty bob a four it wasn’t bad
money. His fighting was improving all the time.
“Soon’s I can pick up a bit of a bank we 11 git
married. Rudgart is gonna fix me up with a couple
of six-rounders. I might git a main fight soon.
The main bouts came. Mostly, though, they
were at the smaller suburban stadiums, but the money
was good compared with what he was getting from
the six-rounders.
There was talk of a championship match.
“If I git the championship we’ll git married
right away.”
But there’s a difference in fighting your way
through a series of ten-rounders and matching your-
self with a boy at the top. It was a short fight, and
from her seat at the ringside she saw him crumple
in the fifth round. It was funny to see him lying
there, still, with his eyes open, starring.
“I’ll git another fight with ’im, Sadie. A lucky
punch, that’s wot it was. I’ll beat ’im, Sadie. I’ll
beat ’im.”
"THEY were coming out for the third round. It
1 was a one-sided fight now. He was on top,
moving round stabbing punches into weakened
defences. The other boy was obviously out of con-
dition ; he was making an attempt to fight back, but
the very force was bringing him on to his opponent s
ready gloves. His mouth was cut, and a trickle of
blood creased the corner. It would be over soon,
she decided. But she sat on her chair watching
without any relaxation of tension. The round
finished at last, and she realised that only a knockout
could beat Jim, but he was fresh, confident, while
in the other corner seconds were busy sponging and
slapping his opponent.
"p HERE had been another fight with the champion.
I He had fought his way into it, winning a sequence
of fights. He had lasted longer in the second fight,
but it made no difference.
Something had happened to him then. It was
a long slide dropping down the lists eights, sixes,
and now here in the four-rounders. He seemed to
have lost something; it was like the time he had
been out of work. He was getting the look; she
had seen it on the faces of the men who stood on
the doors of the stadiums. His face was flattening
and his nose had started to buckle.^
“I’ll git a job ’n’ git out of it.”
“I wish you would.” She said it for him, Then
we could get married.”
But it seemed the depression was never going
to end, and it was easier to muck around in the gym-
than look for a job. There were plenty of four-
rounders. Things stayed like that for a long time.
They were still like it. “When I git a job we can
git married.” The thought of it made her feel hard
and bitter.
HER eyes followed him round the ring.. He was
fighting hard now, hitting wherever he wanted to.
The other boy was done. His head was smothered
in his arms. He was making no attempt to return
the fight. The bell sounded and the referee touched
Jim on the head. Crowd noise and excitement
dropped. He was slipping out through the ropes.
She heard someone say, “He ain’t finished yet, no
be a long way.”
"THEY walked home, the dark softness of the night
f moving with them. She could feel the soli so
ness of him against her arm, hear the husky sound


of his low whistle. He was happy—she could sense
the feel of it—and the thought crushed her into a
sudden bitterness. She had not spoken since they had
left the stadium. She had not wanted to speak. It
was better walking like this, feeling the full savor
of that bitterness inside.
“Sadie”—his voice held the full quality of
triumph—“l’m rightin' like I useter. Didn’ y’ notice?
Ifs me timin'. Sadie, I got it again. I ain't stayin’
in „o four-rounders. Im gom up. Look whos
champion now. Tommy McCarty. I beat im,
didn’ I? I can beat ’im again. I’m gonna be the
champ, Sade. And then his voice found a sudden
diffidence an then we can git married.
She looked at him, but he was too intent on the
future.
“I know I been sayin’ it a long time, but I
mean it, Sade. I always mean it. It’s just that
things don’t ’appen.”
She faced him then, her mind fierce and tight,
She suddenly wanted to hurt him. She could feel
the rush of heat at the back of her eyes,
“Jimmy,” she said, “I’m sick of it. I’m sick of
y° u - Sick to hell. Marry you? I might have one
time not now. I ain t mad. She could feel the
orce er anger ’ desire to hurt him.
d^ r k r ,. y ,, yOU? she repeated ; 1 don ‘ marr >' P unch -
Punch drunk . Not , but m comi she
could see jt jn , he dead stare of his eyes \ fcw
m ore fights and it would take him a long time to
comprehend things. He was standing there in front
G f ]-, er> looking sheepish, reminding her of the first
night he had seen her home. He was so ready to be
hurt. She laughed suddenly,
“Marry you?” she said again ; “I ain’t mad.”
But all the time she knew she was going to marry
him. She wondered what he would say when she
told him she was going to have a baby.
SHEEP SALE
BY E. O’SULLIVAN.
THE sheep ran through the gateway, stirring up a
cloud of dust, and a man leaned on the gatepost
watching them intently, a wide-brimmed felt hat
pulled low down over his eyes. The last one
ran through, and he shut the gate, spat out a little
mud, and turned to Dick Henley.
“Thousand?” he queried.
“Right.” Dick had started a thousand from the
reserve that morning, but he couldn’t count them as
quickly as this man. “I’ll go down town now and
get a feed,” he said.
“Will Smith be in to see ’em sold, or are you in
charge?”
“No. Boss’ll be in,” answered Dick, and walked
down the lane to where he had tied the sleepy-looking
brown horse. He took the saddle off, and turned him
loose in the yard. His dog lay down beside the saddle
and appeared to doze.
He vaulted the fence, and was crossing the road
when a big car came slowly round the corner and
pulled up beside him. It was the boss, his seventeen-
year-old son Alan driving. Dick put a foot on the
running-board.
“Good-day,” murmured the boss, his eyes run-
ning over the yards. “Get ’em in all right?”
•“Good-day, Mr. Smith. Yes, they’re all there.”
“Many sheep in?”
“A good few.” Dick, too, turned and regarded
the yards. “There’s nothing like as good as the
wethers.”
“All right, Dick. I’d like you to wait; they may
have to start back again. Meet me here at three and
I’ll let you know.”
“All right, Mr. Smith ; three o’clock.”
The car went on to the saleyards.
"T HE sale had been advertised for two o’clock, but
* at two-fifteen men were still clustered in the lanes
between the yards smoking and yarning or drifting
from one yard to another, climbing fences to examine
teeth and skin, introducing and being introduced. A
hum of low talk rose, together with a little cloud of
dust, stirred up by thousands of hard little feet. Groups
of men formed and broke up, to re-form differently.
And dogs everywhere, each indifferent to any man
save one, running about amongst men’s feet on their
own business.
The auctioneer appeared at the head of the centre
lane and came slowly down. He stopped to talk with
someone or other, picking out prospective buyers.
There was Hay, the dealer ; no knowing what he might
want. And old Henderson there was in need of sheep.
And Johnstone ; but the dry spell had hit him pretty
hard, and finance might be low. The usual butchers
were there ; other graziers there to see people, to note
values, or simply from habit.
The auctioneer approached a white-haired, portly
old man who was leaning against the fence filling his
pipe.
“Good day, Mr. Henderson. Did you see that
lot of sheep of Smith’s in the top yard? They’re good
sheep to buy.”
The old man struck a match.
“Yes,” he said slowly, “I saw them.”
“Good sheep to buy, sir,” the auctioneer repeated.
“Worth any money.”
Crying “Sale-oh! Sale-oh! Come along, buyers,
come along!” he climbed the fence and stood in the
first yard, coatless, an old felt hat on his head, his
large hands restless.
Leaning over the corner-post, young Alan Smith
barely heard the “terms and conditions of sale” read
at a breathless, unintelligible speed ; nor did Hay, the
dealer, wondering how much he would have to pay
for the young wethers in the top yard.
Old Henderson was also thinking of the young
wethers. There was no other lot as good in the yards,
and he know of no others anywhere. Good one-
year-old wethers ; he could pay, say, seventeen shil-
lings, perhaps seventeen and six
The auctioneer was shouting: “Only nine and
eleven for the ewes, gentlemen, and it’s bound to rain
to-morrow. Are you done, sir? Done?” He brought
his hands together—“ Nine and eleven, Mr. Evans.”
Then he climbed into the next yard.
The crowd followed, laughing at his jokes, brush-
ing the flies away. Some lots were sold, some left
with the owners to be returned to their paddocks.
He came at last to the top yard and stood for a
moment wiping his brown forehead with a handker-
chief. Then he replaced his hat, returned the handker-
chief to a pocket and commenced.
“And here, gentlemen, is as fine a lot of young
wethers as you’ll see in any yards in the State to-day.
Bred on Mr. Frank Smith’s Awinia property, they’re
fine, well-grown sheep, and they’ll cut a lot o’ wool
next year, gentlemen, a lot of good wool. Make no
mistake, gentlemen, they’re as fine a lot of young
sheep as you’ll see in the State. You don’t see sheep
like that offered every day. There’s a thousand there,
gentlemen, and every one in tiptop condition. And
what am I offered? They’re worth nineteen bob if
they’re worth a penny, and what am I offered for the
Awinia wethers?” His voice settled down to the
monotonous chant of auctioneers everywhere.
“Come along, gentlemen, you ought to be proud
to put in a bid for sheep like these. Is there eighteen
shillings anywhere? Seventeen? Sixteen? Fifteen,
then? Fifteen? Fifteen shillings! Thank you, sir” —
that was Johnstone’s bid. “Fifteen and three, and
six, and nine—fifteen and nine.”
Neither Hay nor Henderson had made a sign
yet, though one of the agent’s men was watching each
of them intently, ready to snap up a bid ; but now
Henderson, eyeing the young fellow standing in the
yard, tilted his head back a little and emitted a long
puff of smoke.
The young man suddenly stood very erect, crying
“Yes.”
“Sixteen,” continued the auctioneer; “sixteen
and three” He eyed Hay across the mob ; Hay
winked. “And six . . . sixteen and six . . . sixteen and
a half” He was watching Johnstone, but as
Johnstone gave no sign he turned again to Hender-
son ; another puff of smoke. “And nine” An-
other wink. “Seventeen.”
There was a lull. Alan Smith, leaning over the
gate, wondered who was bidding ; he scanned faces
but could find out nothing. His father, looking dis-
appointed, climbed the fence and conversed in low
tones with the auctioneer, who again, hat in hand,
was mopping his brow.
His voice began again. “Gentlemen, these sheep
are worth every penny of nineteen bob to-day, and
if it rains to-morrow, and I believe there’s a forecast
for rain, prices will go up to blazes. And seventeen
shillings is all I’m offered. Seventeen bob for a thou-
sand young sheep. Seventeen shillings for the Awinia
wethers! Come along, sir. And three —seventeen and
three! At seventeen and three they go!” The large
hands were raised towards the dealer, threatening,
entreating, and lowered. He turned to Mr. Smith.
“What shall I do, sir?”
Mr. Smith looked so disgusted that young Alan
felt profoundly sorry. “It’s not much of a price,”
he said.
“I’m going to sell them, gentlemen, though, as
the owner says, it’s not much of a price. These sheep
are worth nineteen bob, and I’ll take a penny bid.
Seventeen and three.” A wink from Hay, another
puff of smoke from Henderson’s lips, a lot more
cajolery, and finally: “No advance on seventeen and
five? Done? Done? To Mr. Henderson.” And he
brought his hands together.
The auctioneer moved on, begging, threatening,
promising rain. The crowd moved with him, laughing
still at his jokes, delaying over bids. Dick Henley
left the crowd and walked across to the boss. “Sold
’em, Mr. Smith?”
“Yes. You can go, Dick.” He turned to the boy.
“Come on, Alan.”
They walked to the car and started off. They
had gone some miles before Alan asked his father:
“Was it a good sale, dad?”
The reply was non-committal. “Oh, not too
bad, son.”
At about the same time the auctioneer, preparing
to go home himself, answered the question.
He was putting on his coat when one of his men
came up to him. “Not a bad sale at all, eh, boss?”
“A good sale, Jack, a good sale. Especially those
little wethers of old Smith’s.”
DEAD CERT
BY NORMAN LOCKE.
SLIM looked up at the faint knock. Angy’s
wizened head poked round the edge of the door.
He squinted round the dim-lit room, whispered
to Skeeter to come in, then turned the key.
“Well?” snorted Slim.
“Dustbox,” says Angy. “Can’t be beat.”
“D-d-d-dead cert,” says Skeeter. “He’s”
“Dead cert me foot,” chips in Slim. “Didn’t I
see ’im break times that made me look at me stop-
watch twice? Finished the mile an’ a quarter with
'is ears in the air, ’e did, an’ would ’ave run round
agen if Skeeter ’adn’t pulled him tight. An’, stone the
crows, on Cup day, When ’e ’ad ’em all licked to a
frazzle at the straight, he got struck with infantile
paraletics. Stopped dead ter see the finish. Put yer
own shirt on ’im.”
Which was fair enough. Dustbox somehow had
a kink in his make-up. All right till he entered the
straight—usually lengths ahead —then
Perhaps, as Slim put it, he wanted to see the finish
•of the race.
“Hold hard, Slim,” says Angy. “Listen” He
pulled a chair up opposite Slim and divulged the plan.
‘ ‘ L_| ’M. Looks a bit big,” says Slim the following
* * night when Bill Lovelace, the mine electrician,
deposited his handiwork among the pots of beer on
the table.
“She’ll be all right,” Angy assured him as he
locked the door.
Bill wasn’t interested much. He was busy fiddling
with a milled screw at the end of the contraption.
There was a sudden buzz. Everyone but Bill scattered.
Slim picked up the chair he had knocked over.
Skeeter turned beady eyes on the buzzing terror.
“Cripes,” laughed Angy, “that oughter make the
blankard go.”
“What about the stewards?” says Slim, scratching
his head.
“Everything’s fixed up,” says Angy.
“Righto,” says Slim. “You can ’ave the money.”
SO Dustbox goes to the post in a field of twenty-
one. There were a couple of fairish nine-stoners
from Timaroo, a likely-looking prad from Orange,
and the rest little more than station hacks carrying
the odd seven-stone or seven-stone-six.
The books stood on their boxes beefing out the
odds. The crowd milled round, stirring up the dust.
You couldn’t get more than seven to two Pax, four to
one Hummer, six to one Redwing, and the rest in easy
steps to Dustbox, quoted at fifteens. Then —gently
at first, like the few spots before the deluge—the word
went round.
“Fifteen to one Dustbox, four to one the favorite,”
rasped one bookie. And before you could sink a
couple of pints the deluge came. Every Joe, Arthur,
Ronald and Rose was whispering that Dustbox was
the goods. “Got a battery on. Back him.”
At first the books thought it was a cinch, but
as the mob surged round thrusting deeners, notes, even
fivers, under their noses, they tightened up. So Dust-
box tumbles down to tens ... eights ... sixes . . .
fives . . . threes. Some of the books closed their bags.
Others lengthened the odds on the rest of the field,
bawling “Six to one, bar Dustbox. I’ll lay six to
one the field, bar Dustbox.”
And there’s Dustbox at the barrier, Skeeter sitting
aboard calm as you like, with a big bulge under his
cerise and white. And if the stewards thought it a bit
hot that someone should be shouting “Back Dustbox ;
he’s got a battery on,” they couldn’t say much, be-
cause they’d backed him themselves.
“They’re^off! ” yelled the mob. You couldn’t see
much to begin with because of the dust. Round they
thundered, Dustbox leading as usual. Then came Red-
wing, a length in front of Pax, with Hummer buzzing
into her ears. The rest of the field were just sorting
themselves out.
As they went out of sight at the back of the
course the mob clustered round the entrance to the
straight. They knew Dustbox would be all right till
he reached that point. If the battery, applied at the
critical moment, overcame Dustbox’s whim then
heaven help the books.
Round they came, Dustbox still in front. Pax
had forced Redwing to the rails and was creeping up.
Hummer still buzzed into Pax’s ear, but seemed to
be feeling his weight. The mob stood open-mouthed.
They saw Skeeter was bothered. The battery was
bobbing up and down in his blouse, nearly pulling
it off. Then Dustbox spotted the straight.
Skeeter did his stuff. The mob held their breath.
Dustbox seemed about to put on a spurt. You could
hear the deep sigh of relief from the mob. Then some-
thing happened. Out go Dustbox’s front legs, stiff-like,
digging in the dust. Suddenly there seem to be dozens
of legs and cerise and white all mixed up in a sort
of Catherine wheel. And the rest of the field gallops on.
Silence blankets the mob. Up rushes the ambu-
lance. Skeeter picks himself up and ducks into the
ambulance. He isn’t taking any risk with the mob.
Dustbox scrambles up and with a resentful sort
of snort gallops off after the field.
The mob were stunned, particularly Slim and
Angy. Bill Lovelace, walking off the course between
them listening to their moans, didn’t say anything.
Bill doesn’t know anything about horses. Electri-
city is his line, and he reckoned that battery carried
enough juice to stop an elephant. That’s why he
backed Pax.


You’ll Appreciate the Quality of Jno ♦ Baker’s Cutlery!
i
6in. blade
Butchers’
knife,
3/3 ea.
Post. Gd.
Ladies’
Pruning
Secateur,
Cutting-out
Scissors,
7in. overall,
7/6 ea.
Write for our illustrated catalogue.
Posted Pree.
‘Open Easy” Pocket Knife saves the
fingernails,
3/9 ea.
Baker’s six-blade Station Knife, for
Country use, 3Ain. Stag bait,
17/6 ea.
W. JNO. BAKER
EX
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“The Cutlery Specialists.”
Hikers’
Knife,
SAin.
blade,
Ordinary
Steel
Meat
Carvers,
28/6
per pr.
Poultry
Secateur
for table
Christopher Hollis’s Foreigners Aren’t Knaves
(Longmans Green ; per Angus and Robertson) is a
series of letters exchanged between “Bobby” and
“Algernon,” discussing the world situation since
Munich. In the circumstances the device seems curi-
ously light, and it isn’t even meant to be convincing ;
but it does give the writer a chance to introduce a
little elasticity into his treatment. If he doesn’t always
make a bull’s-eye he supplies his reader with enough
data to make a few for himself.
He is at his best on the subjects of war and the
colonies. He agrees that Europe to-day is in a most
deplorable condition, but would war, however vic-
torious for the democracies, improve matters? He
answers with a round “No.” On the humanitarian
level: “We read pitiable tales of Sudeten refugees, of
sufferers in concentration camps, of homeless Jews.
Such stories are beyond words horrible, but can any-
one pretend that the sufferings of humanity would
not be merely multiplied by a hundred if a world war
were launched in order to rescue them?”
From the point of view of democracy he shows
that war by its nature cannot strengthen the demo-»
cratic principle, for it has always meant the surrender
of internal liberty on the altar of efficiency. War
for the democracies to-day would mean an abandon-
ment of democracy—of the ideal we would be fighting
for —and the road back would be long and difficult;
perhaps impossible. When he thinks of the future
Hollis comes to the crux of his argument:
As the Powers are now lined up, it is generally
agreed that we can only beat Germany by using Russia
as our a11y.... but those who talk of a Russian alliance in
order to defeat Germany are in reality abandoning any
platform or principle at all and, whatever their phrase-
ology, are talking nothing but power politics. Nor are
they even talking'sense. For no sane man can pretend
that, if in such a war Germany was brought to her
knees by the blockade of the British fleet, then the
Russians would meekly retire from Central Europe and
leave it to the liberalism which they so utterly hate and
despise.
No victory, he believes, can be a fruitful or a safe
victory that is made through “unholy” alliances. We
would be destroyed by our allies if not by our enemies.
What then of peace? He asks for calm and im-
partial justice, the rectification of wrongs done at
Versailles as a first step or a guarantee of good
faith. The League of Nations failed to bring peace
to Europe not because the idea of a League was
wrong, but because it was misused: a League and
alliances, he says, cannot exist side by side. If a
League is to function, the old alliance system must be
abandoned, as they are mutually exclusive. One of
the functions of the League was to revise treaties. It
never exercised the function while there was time.
Collective security won’t work without faith and sac-
rifice. “If we are to get rid of war, if collective
security is to be made to work, then nations have got
to be prepared to make peaceful sacrifices where
previously they would have fought.”
As for the forces for peace to-day, Hollis has a
rather heartening list. There is a world-wide popular
desire for peace, even, he believes, in the totalitarian
countries. Dictators being more dependent on popu-
larity than any other type of ruler, Hitler cannot
afford to disregard this desire among his people.
Mussolini, he feels sure, desires peace and will throw
the weight of Italy against war in his alliance with
Germany. Reason is against war, and reason is some-
times heard. If aggression is to come from the Fascist
States the balance of strength is still against them,
and their leaders must know it.
From war Hollis passes to the sometime German
colonies. His point about them is that they are
German no longer:
For 20 years the ex-German colonies have been under
the mandate of new masters. New settlers have gone to
them, trusting in the permanence of the new arrange-
ments, and have sunk capital there. There were very
few German settlers in the German colonies before 1914
—less than 20,000 in all, of whom more than half were
in South-west Africa. It is only in South-west Africa
that there is any important number of German settlers
to-day. These Germans protested indeed against the
original cession of their home to South Africa in 1918,
but in 1924 made a freely negotiated settlement with
General Smuts as a result of which all who accepted the
new state of affairs received the full status of British
subjects. All but 261 out of 3489 adults in the colony
accepted this arrangement. Meanwhile the non-German
settlers in every one of these colonies to-day greatly
outnumber the German settlers. In South-west Africa
there are about 10,000 German-speaking people out of
a total population of 31,000. In Tanganyika 300
Germans to 8000 other Europeans and 32,000 Indians.
The same thing obtains in Germany’s non-African
colonies. In New Guinea there are 2500 British to 379
Germans.
Germany’s colonies, he says, aren’t worth a war
to Hitler. Africa isn’t worth a war to Europe. It
only produces 3 p.c. of the world’s raw material. As
a field of immigration it is more likely to serve India
than Europe. Hollis optimistically sketches a couple
of plans for the settlement of Africa. He thinks it
might be handed over to the U.S.A. and brougnt
under an extension of the Monroe Doctrine, an open
door to all Europe, monopoly for no country. Or
it might be disposed of as a Mandate B under a recon-
stituted League.
The "Pink ’Un" World.
The London “Sporting Times” or “Pink ’Un”
petered out about a quarter of a century ago,
reminiscences about the paper and its staff and the
sporting and dramatic and Bohemian life of late-Vic-
torian and Edwardian days have already furnished
J. B. Booth with material for at least five books. Like
its predecessors, the latest of them is brightly and
jerkily written and well illustrated.
That venerable sportsman Lord Lonsdale con-
tributes a foreword certifying it as excellent. But this
business of raking old bones over and over again in-
volves a certain amount of repetition, and the book is
anything but free from it. There are chestnuts with a
musty flavor, and some of the witticisms, real and
alleged, of the celebrities and notorieties of a genera-
tion and more ago seem a trifle feeble nowadays.
Which is not to say there are not bright spots and
stories that are worth retelling. Preserved in the hand-
writing of Sir Frank Lockwood, Q.C., is a dialogue
as he heard it related before the Parnell Commission
of 1888:
“An’ what did he say to ye?”
“He tould me to go to Hell.”
“Are ye going to start? Cos I’ll back ye for a
place.”
The space devoted to the “Pink ’Un” itself in
Sporting Times (T. Werner Laurie) is comparatively
small. The author didn’t join the staff till early in the
present century, and the bulk of his memories are
hardly first-hand. Yet he seems to retain kindly
memories of the proprietor-editor, John Corlett, who
was deservedly castigated in a previous book for sell-
ing the paper over the staff’s heads, and he recalls with
a certain pensive pride having accompanied “Master”
to Epsom in 1912 when the old man watched his fiftieth
successive Derby.
Nearly half of the book is taken up with stories
of the stage and the music-halls. The turf comes in a
good second. A biography of Fred Archer lauded
him not only as the most capable and successful of ail
English jockeys, but one of the straightest. Mr. Booth
would appear to differ:
In the Fred Archer days, when that jockey was
the adviser of a backing confederacy, betting was brought
almost to a certainty, for when he was riding himself
in a race he could always name two or three horses
he was certain to beat, one or two whose riders he
might be able to square, and others that would be going
for him. No wonder his friends were able to make a
good deal of money.
After which it is a little startling to read, a few
pages later, that “Archer towards the close of his life
lost a small fortune by betting.”
Phil May, “a cherished member of the ‘Pink ’Un’
coterie,” gets a few pages. His early struggle to make
a living “when he slept on the Embankment and under
market carts at Covent Garden” told on Ais constitu-
tion and was largely responsible for what Booth calls
the “cheerful financial chaos” of May’s later years.
Things had already begun to improve when the artist
accepted a three years’ engagement on The Bulletin,
and on his return to London money soon began to
pour in—and to be poured out as fast. There were no
wingless coins for Phil. A dozen papers and maga-
zines competed for almost anything he chose to draw:
At the “Sketch” office it was a rule that a five-pound-
note was always to be kept ready to exchange, at any
hour, for any drawing, however slight, Mr. May might
leave. The result was that, night after night, finding
himself short of ready cash, May would draw on a
restaurant table or bar counter a sketch of a single
figure that had suddenly appealed to him and send it
round by hand to be “cashed.”
An accommodating newspaper office! One
gathers that most of May’s earnings in his closing years
went to spongers and parasites.
Wanted: New Story Writers.
The Other Fellow’s Mind Competition has
brought in contributors The Bulletin had not
heard from before —contributors it wanted to
hear from ; new writers with new ideas ; young
writers. It wants, too, to see the work of new
writers of fiction.
Previous Bulletin short-story competitions
have been designed largely with that intention.
But they have been “open” competitions, and
beginners have had to compete with established
story-tellers. So it has been decided to devote
a page in the fiction section every month to
stories and sketches by writers whose names
have not appeared there before. Writers of
paragraphs, verse, “Other Fellow’s Mind”
articles are all eligible ; only those who have
had stories published by The Bulletin are
barred.
The conditions are simple:
Stories must be short —1500 to 3000
words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short
Story Competition.”
The competition will be judged each month.
The winning story will be awarded a prize of
£5, plus Bulletin rates of £2 2s. for each 1100
words. Any other stories published will be
paid for at Bulletin rates.
The stories or sketches should be Austra-
lasian in character ; they may be serious or
humorous ; but they must be original.
The first competition will close on July 7.s
The earlier entries are sent in, the sooner they s
can be read and the judging completed.
Reviewed Briefly.
Fiction . r .
Roughanapes: William McDowell (Hodder and
Stoughton). Prize novel set in a great English ship-
building yard. The author has a sure touch in deal-
ing with his background, but not much insight into
human character.
Far as the Breeze: Margaret Ferguson (Robert
Hale). Very traditional but well-written story of three
gently-bred young Englishwomen who brave the rigors
of India for love and for the Empire. Period, mid-
Victorian.
Lamp of Heaven : John Barclay (Robert Hale).
'Big business, political trickery, senoritas with lips
“full, red and beautifully moulded,” sudden death and
narrow squeaks in Bolivia. A good light yarn.
We Married an Englishman: Ruth and Helen
Hoffman (Robert Hale; Angus and Robertson).
Travels and domestic adventures of an American girl
—and her sister —married to an English official sta-
tioned in Palestine. Lightly amusing. Studiously
feminine.
The Forbidden Ground: Neil H. Swanson
(Harrap). A fairly robust love-and-adventure story set
in a fur-trading post at the time of the American War
of Independence.
Golden Grove: Dorothy Lambert (Collins).
Cheerful light yarn about a young woman left with a
fine old country home and little else. She takes paying
guests, most of whom are either falling in or out of
love.
Once to Every Man : Fanny Heaslip Lea (Robert
Hale). A man, his wife and the other woman in small-
town America, by an author who has been immensely
successful with a public fond of a disturbing situation
with a reassuring solution.
7 Carry the Wood: Bridget Lowry (Methuen). A
young doctor’s struggle with poverty and ill-health
due to a war injury, and his final renunciation of suc-
cess for human service. Medium-weight.
General . . .
Essential Christianity, Prof. S. Angus (Angus and
Robertson), is a plea to Christians to put up a
united front in a world whose moral values are wan-
ing. Theology, he says, divides (and who should better
be able to testify in that respect?); religion unites.
Essentialism, anonymous, published by Essential-
ism, London, is a series of loud typographical shrieks
calling the world to repentance and regeneration. Every
page is set out with copious black display lines and
dozens of asterisks. The material spread so lavishly
all originates in half a dozen Biblical texts. Sound
enough morally, but not likely to raise more than a
ripple of interest in a world well used to revivalists.
We Crucify, Ronald Gurner (Dent), tells the
Gospel story in modern phraseology in the guise of
minutes of the Sanhedrin of Jerusalem. Written with
imagination and with a pawky sort of humor that
brightens the oft-told tale.


j
the BIGGEST name
in the Battery World
The first car ,
starting battery.
V ■-
The first S.O.S.
/
r\
Great Aeroplane Flights.
Polar Exploration.
:dL .
c\'
&
• 1C ft?
Historic Broadcasts.
I
m
JSH
Telephone Exchanges.
.M.S. "Queen Mary.”
Nine out of ten British
ships are Exide equipped.
| i* OR more than 50 years Exide Batteries have made a very real
contribution to the advancement of civilisation and to the
preservation of human life.
Exide provided the first electric starting, lighting and ignition
batteries for motor cars.
Exide has accompanied explorers into the deserts and is the first and
only battery to have reached both poles.
An Exide Battery sent the first S.O.S. message in 1909 from the
sinking S.S. Republic, saving 750 lives. Since then 9 out of 10
British ships have been equipped with Exide Batteries.
The motion picture industry depends increasingly on Exide.
Broadcasts of important world events are sent out to the four
corners of the earth by the 8.8. C. with the help of Exide Batteries.
Hospitals throughout the world depend on Exide for emergency
lighting. Telephone Exchanges, Fire Brigades and Ambulances also
rely on Exide.
In these and numerous other instances Exide speaks a universal
language of dependability, so that after 5 0 years of progress Exide
continues to be "the biggest name in the battery world.”
t BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
FOR CARS, RADIO, MOTOR CYCLES, HOME - LIGHTING
OBTAINABLE FROM DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA


ROYAL
PURPLE. PARA
yiffbtt Wie mellcwneMmidlmiqmi
While the Mansion House may be re-
garded as the domestic and social centre
of the City of London, as represented
by its Lord Mayor, the Guildhall, the
front “gateway” of which runs across
King-street, a short opening from the
north side of Cheapside, is the head-
quarters of the City’s civic administrative
work. In the time of Athelstan (925-
940) records state that the executives
of certain guilds met in their Guildhall.
The derivation of the name is thus ex-
plained. The Guildhall, built by sub-
scription and begun in 1411, represents
the first serious architectural attempt
of the citizens of London. The
roof being destroyed, with nearly the
whole city, by the Great Fire of 1666,
the interior was patched up by Sir
Christopher Wren, and again in the
eighteenth century by Dance, architect
of the Mansion House, who added the
present front “gateway.” The famous
hall, in which the Lord Mayor gives the
great annual banquet on Lord Mayor’s
Day, one of the most important national
functions of the year, is, after West-
minster Hall, regarded as the noblest in
England. The style is Gothic, and at the
west end in the angles are placed the
two colossal wooden images, Gog and
Magog, painted in gay colors, one habited
in Roman costume and the other, in all
probability, the effigy of an ancient
Briton. The chief monuments are dedi-
cated to Nelson, the eminent Lord Mayor
Bickford, Chatham and Pitt. The Court
of Aldermen is a small apartment, richly
decorated, divided into five compart-
ments, with a profusion of gilding and
a highly-ornamental ceiling. Allegorical
representations of Prudence, Justice,
Temperance and Fortitude occupy four'
small compartments, while over the
chimneypiece is another allegory com-
posed of figures relating to the import-
ance of the City of London, imitative
of a bronze casting. In the Court of
Common Council, on the west side, in
the centre on an elevated pedestal, is
a statue of George 111. by Chautrey. On
the right hand is a full-length painting
of Queen Victoria in her State robes by
Haytor. On the opposite side are half-
length paintings of Caroline, wife of
George IV., and her daughter, the Prin-
cess Charlotte, both by Lonsdale. In
the angles are busts of Nelson and
Wellington. The principal part of the
pictures once preserved in this room
was presented by Alderman Boydell.
one of the great founders of art in
England, and whose long and successful
labors as a publisher of copperplate
engravings are well remembered. The
new Council Chamber was built in 1883.
There is also the Guildhall Art Gallery
THE GUILDHALL.
a Library, while below is housed the Guildhall Museum, which no one anxious to learn something of the early history of the Empire’s
Capital should fail to visit. The Guildhall is the Parliament of the City of London, or rather, there is housed its administrative machinery,
not entirely dissimilar in many phases of its working with the Imperial “establishment” at Westminster. Gog and Magog, whose statues
have just been referred to, are traditionally the last two descendants of a race of giants who were conquered by Brut the Trojan, who made
the two prisoners porters in his palace in London. In the Bible Magog is sometimes a man and sometimes a country, as in Ezekiel (xxxviii).
In Revelation (xx) Gog and Magog together represent the nations opposing the triumph of the Kingdom of God. The Gog-Magog Hills, near
which are traces of a Roman camp, are in south-east Cambridgeshire.


WAITING AT THE CHURCH.
“When it was thought everything had been arranged, Stalin rejected Chamberlain’s offer of an alliance.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Ails.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
EVERYBODY WANTS PEACE.
Who can doubt it? “Peace” has become the most
hackneyed word in the language. Taking all the news-
papers of the world, it is set up some millions of times
every day. It has more common currency in conver-
sation than the weather. No radio programme is
complete without it. Every day the leader of one
country or another tells the world that his nation is
all for peace. Or there will be three or four of them
telling the world the same thing in chorus.
At the same time there has never been such
preparation for war. Nor was it ever more certain that
peace must be smashed unless something different is
done to save it than merely paying it lip-service.
France wants peace. “When France talks peace,
declared M. Daladier (cable 30/5/39), “she devotes
her efforts to promote it; she hopes that a world
catastrophe will thus be avoided.” Earlier last month,
France was reported to have had 2,000,000 men under
arms. The Maginot Line was “fully manned” ; “the
forces on the Pyrenean and Italian frontiers have been
strengthened.” France’s air force is “unduly weak”—
estimated at only between 3000 and 3800 first-line
Warplanes. But “she is building 5000. She possesses
the second-largest navy in Europe,” and, “under the
stress of Italian competition,” is “building more ships.”
But nobody must suppose from that that France
is in a warlike mood. France wants peace. So does
Italy. “Signor Mussolini” (cable same date as the
Daladier peace pronouncement) “says that Italy anti-
cipates a long peace. The Duce does not intend to
initiate any action endangering peace.” Italy’s trained
man-power is estimated at 3,500,000 ready at once ,
some estimates put the figure up to 5,000,000. “Boys
between eight and 14 are trained by the Balilla, or
youth organisation.” Catch them young! From “18
to 21 training is of a military character” ; they
become liable to compulsory military service,” serving
for 18 months. The navy totals 680,000 tons. War-
planes are put at from 4200 to 5800. Upwards of
“60,000 workers in many factories are employed on
the construction of ’planes and ’plane engines.”
Signor Mussolini again speaking: “The aims of
our policy are clear. We want peace ; peace with
everyone.”
So does Germany. Last week’s cable (30/5/39)
also credited Herr Hitler with the same intention of
not initiating “any action endangering peace.” Ger-
many’s trained soldiers “who could be effective at once
in time of war” are put at 6,000,000. There is an “im-
mense number of tanks”—reckoned at 7000. “The
army has once more become the most conspicuous
feature of German national life ; its grey uniform is
to be seen all over the country.” Germany’s “air arm
is no less powerful, the aim being to create by 1940
no fewer than 8000 to 10,000 first-line machines.” The
present figure is estimated at between 5000 and 8000.
But, of course, Germany wants peace. The Ger-
man leader concluded his last speech with a most
moving reference to “that for which we are all con-
cerned—namely, the justice, well-being, progress and
peace of the whole human community.” Heil Hitler!
And so does Britain want peace. Mr. Chamber-
lain: “We have done and are doing all that men can
do to preserve peace.” Through the aid of conscrip-
tion, Britain’s forces will total upwards of 1,021,000
men under arms before the end of this year. As
reported from London:
No foreigner visiting England now could fail to
notice the defence preparations; it seems to stagger
the Americans, who have been far from any likely seat
of war. In every train you go in there seem to be
Territorials. You come on squads of cleiks in mufti
drilling in city byways.
Britain’s navy is put at 2,062,000 tons. Warships
are being added at the rate of one a week. Dockyards
will be engaged this year in building some 200 addi-
tional warships. “Armor-plate is being produced at
10 times the rate at which it was produced in 1935.”
“The output of heavy guns has increased twentytold.
It was said in March: “Never before has any nation
been able to devote £580,000,000 to its defence forces
in a single year without dislocating its economic
nachinery.” Before April was out that total had been
.aised to £630,000,000. The air force has been put at
jetween 4000 and 5700 first-line ’planes. Expenditure
jn warplane production was stated in the House of
Commons in March to equal £250,000 a day, and
would rise to a yet higher level.”
But who will question that Britain is not all for
peace? Mr. Eden speaking: “As a people there is
scarcely any material price we would not pay that
,var might become as antiquated as duelling. Sir
Kingsley Wood (Air Minister): “We are fellow-
corkers in the same cause —to see that right, justice
ind peace prevail throughout the world.”
Britain’s proposals to Russia, rejected by the Gov-
ernment of that country, were stated by “S. M.
Herald” to be for a “Peace Pact.” So Russia, pre-
sumably, is for peace. Russia is estimated to have
11,000,000 men trained as soldiers, and anything be-
tween 5000 and 10,000 first-line warplanes. But:
“ ‘Moscow is a custodian of peace without which the
circle of peace-lovers would be dangerously incom-
plete,’ declared Mr. George Dallas, presiding at the
Labor party’s annual conference” (cable, 30 / 5 / ’39 ; the
day Messrs. Daladier, Mussolini and Hitler also were
for peace).
All the other nations —leviathan, sprat and
tiddler ; separately and collectively—are all for peace.
Japan will soon be able to boast of 6,000,000 trained
men, and is using a fair number of them because
“Japan wants peace in China.” The United States is
all for peace, and has doubled expenditure on arms.
Poland is all for peace, and has 2,500,000 trained
soldiers ready. Turkey has 1,000,000 trained soldiers ;
Greece, 600,000; Rumania, 1,500,000; Hungary,
700,000 ; Belgium is building a Maginot Line ; so is
Switzerland —and they are all for peace.
By way of comment on all this, a meeting of the
Anglo-German-French Committee of the Imperial
War Graves Commission, held in London on May 15.
“Each delegate placed a wreath on the tomb of the
Unknown Warrior and stood in silence at the foot
of the tomb.” Welcoming the delegates Lord
Trenchard said:
After the work of 20 years, we have not quite
finished covering with beauty and consolation the human
loss and destruction of four short years of war. But
here, among ourselves, we have learnt to be guided by
one principle. We have not fenced off our dead of
the Great War by frontiers.
General Hure (France) said:
It is the sad privilege of my own country that in
her soil are the graves of 3,000,000 dead, of 20 nations.
These men, of every nation, had one motive in common.
So to-day the peoples of all countries again have
one motive in common. Once more they are all for
peace. Ready to fight for it.
What has been set forth here represents what the
nations are doing. What the peoples of these same
nations are thinking is notably expressed in the resolu-
tion carried by the peace meeting of 60,000 in Mel-
bourne : —-
That this mass meeting of citizens of Victoria,
remembering with horror the slaughter and futile de-
struction of the World War, appalled at the threat
of yet another world catastrophe, the end of which
would be the doom of European civilisation, and refus-
ing to believe that such a war in inevitable, calls upon
the leaders of the nations to abandon the competi-
tion of armaments, to stamp out the spirit of force
and war, and to submit international problems to the
arbitrament of reason and friendly discussion.
That resolution is the voice of the general body of
the people of all countries. It is, rightly, being for-
warded to the heads of all nations.
Real Action at Last.
It is surprising how quickly a few men who know
their jobs and have a reasonably free hand can change
the aspect of a policy or a department.
For years, the nature of Australia’s aerial defence
policy —if policy it could be called—has given cause
for anxiety. The R.A.A.F. has had a miscellaneous
collection of mostly obsolescent machines which
seemed to serve no concerted strategic purpose or any
definite or constructive plan of defence. It was with-
out adequate bases where bases were most needed.
There was no force capable of going out of Aus-
tralia to meet an approaching enemy. British flying-
boats patrolled our northern seas. But the R.A.A.F.,
though scurvily treated by politicians and sensational
newspapers, had, and has always had, excellent human
material and commanders—fighters with long records
of successful combat, most of them—whose advice as
to service needs and strategy has been sound.
The businesslike visit of the British Aerial Mis-
sion added a heartening chapter to the development
of Australian defence. It brought into the arena the
best mechanical and industrial brains in the Com-
monwealth. Other things have happened in the last
few months—things necessary and inspiriting. The
wornout “follow-Salmond” scheme has been scrapped.
An active Minister has arrived.
Mr. Fairbairn is the first Minister in control of
aerial affairs with real knowledge of his job. He
cannot claim credit for some of the great innova-
tions which are being made, but it is a blessed reliet
for the R.A.A.F. and the nation to have a Minister
who knows what is wanted and how to get it done.
At the beginning of the year, the Commonwealth
had no scheme in keeping with the dictum, accepted
in Europe and America, that there shall be outlying
defended bases far removed from salient industrial
and settlement points and as near as can be to likely
routes by which. enemies might reach the country.
There were no fast, long-range flying-boats, though
the sea must be the first zone of national air defence.
Now, in the sixth month, a concerted and logical
plan is being put into operation. To meet weaknesses
in training, an additional flying school is being estab-
lished at Wagga (N.S.W.). There are also to be facili-
ties which will admit of young fliers learning the varied
atmosphere of the whole of the Australian coast from
actual service experience. A possible cause of many
accidents to valuable young officers —obsolescent
machines unequipped with adequate instruments for
night and fog flying—is being removed rapidly. The
prompt and businesslike introduction of night beam
flying on commercial routes is a salient defence
measure as well as a civil measure. The rationalisation
of civil flying now in progress and the concerting of
some fighting types with civil types is a strong safe-
guard. But it is in the major field of building high-
power capacity for resistance to an invader that the
new Government is scoring best.
An outer ring of big, fortified flying-boat bases
is being built round the continent, at Port Moresby,
Darwin, Port Hedland, Port Phillip and Lake Mac-
quarie, equipped to service and operate the biggest
long-range aircraft in the world. Sandwiched between
these stations will be emergency sea bases and new
aerodromes for land craft. With the concerting of
types of Australian naval sea fighters with those of the
R.A.N. and the vast extension of operation-range
which has taken place in the last few years, Singapore
and Hong Kong virtually become Australian defensive
outposts, from which the new Australian northern
bases can be reached in an overnight flight.
An invader from Europe would have to run the
gauntlet not only of the Middle Eastern R.A.F., which
has been turned into a first-class command, but a
dozen others on the way to the Commonwealth, all
of great strength. And an invader bent on attacking
the North Australian coast would, before he reached
it, find himself inside a ring of aerial stations
each equipped with exceptionally powerful fighting
machines.
To the north-east and east another ring could be
completed. It will come into being when Fiji becomes
an R.A.F. centre and Maoriland’s contemplated de-
velopments are complete. Maoriland orders include
30 Wellington bombers, with a range of something
like 8000 miles non-stop and with considerably heavier
armament than the Wellesleys—they are grown-up
brothers—which broke the world’s long-distance
record in their flight from Ismailia to Darwin.
The Menzies Government is not hesitating to
spend money to make the outer sea bases adequate and
efficient. No Australian will cavil at that. They are a
bargain at the price—£400,000 in the case of Lake
Macquarie, the cost of a large naval destroyer.
In place of a lot of light machines the first line of
defence will become an aerial battle fleet of Short
Sunderlands. There will be one squadron of them to
begin with ; Britain has another squadron or so at
Singapore. Short Sunderlands are a larger naval edi-
tion of the civil mailcraft. In the servicing of them
civilian facilities can be applied, and every civilian
airmail base can be turned into an emergency aerial
battleship base, every mail pilot made available for
defence purposes.
The engines in these giants develop 4000 horse-
power at the take-off. Each machine weighs 50,0001 b.
and can carry 2000 gallons of fuel. Their non-stop
range with a military load is 2875 miles.
Short Sunderlands are heavily armed with power-
operated guns firing explosive shells. As bombers their
destructive power is enormous. They could sink a small
cruiser with one direct hit. And a single squadron
could move two battalions of infantry from Sydney
to Brisbane, or Brisbane to Townsville, or Port
Moresby to any outlying N.G. post, in 24 hours.
These Short Sunderlands will be supported by sub-
sidiary shorter-range craft —a deadly series of fighting
units. The first of these to arrive will be the Ameri-
can Lockheed Hudsons, of which there will be at least
50, ranking in modernity, efficiency and speed with any-
thing in the same category on earth. They have appar-
ently been chosen because they are military counter-
parts of the long-distance civil Lockheeds now on cross-
Australian Guinea Airways routes and on those of
the K.N.I.L.M. They are thus provided already—like
the Sunderlands —with a nucleus of service bases, apart
from the military bases to be established.
Following these will come British Beauforts.
Beauforts are capable of fighting at a 1500-mile range,
are powerfully armed, among the fastest and latest of
the world’s types, and entirely suitable for Australian
conditions of defence. What their numbers will be
is not known ; but they and other new types will bring
the first line up to 212 within three years. And, best
of all, Australia, through the establishment of works
to turn them out, not only for local use but for the
use of the R.A.F. and British Navy in Asia, will com-
mand its own supply.
Behind this front-door blockade of formidable
battle machines there will be a second line, less
modern, lighter in type, adaptable for training and for
hastily mobilised forces in time of war. And 900
men are to be enlisted each year till 1941 to make up
the quota, virtually doubling the effective personnel of
the R.A.A.F. The new policy will give work to many
thousands of Australians —aerodrome workmen,
miners, metal workers, mechanics. It will provide an
outlet for the energy and initiative of masses of lads
from technical schools and universities.
This is the aerial defence that Australia needs. It
is all the more welcome since it provides a scheme
which should meet the requirements not only of the
Government and the defence authorities but of the
Federal Labor party. If the same energy is applied to
the development of the C.M.F. and the navy, Aus-
tralia will have good cause to be satisfied.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Is Moscow Scored Stiff?
To the dazed astonishment of Russian-alliance poli-
ticians, professors, editors and pickers-up of foreign
“news,” Moscow has rejected the British offer of a
defensive alliance, made in terms approved of by the
French. The rejection was announced by Molotov,
Litvinov’s successor, to the Chamber (or whatever it
is) in the Red capital, and the Chamber “endorsed
the Minister’s statement of policy by unanimous vote.”
Only scraps of Molotov’s speech have been re-
ported —perhaps the gentleman said too much, or
perhaps the reporters were too staggered to take
down more than scraps. But there is no doubt that
Molotov, whose principal was present, banged the
door on the British proposals, though some of the
Russian-alliance gentry are sure that it will be opened
if Mr. Chamberlain goes down on his knees and
knocks.
According to the scraps, as pieced together,
Molotov “caustically described the Anglo-French
efforts to build a peace front as insufficient and in-
effective,” and suggested that Britain and France
don’t really want “to end aggression.” To get the
U.S.S.R. into a peace pact they must guarantee “all
the countries on its western border” ; and Finland',
Latvia and Estonia have made it horribly plain that
they object to being guaranteed. “The Italo-German
alliance,” Molotov went on, “establishes the principle
of absolute reciprocity,” and though the Anglo-French
proposals accepted reciprocity (without the adjective)
in principle “several qualifications” were added.
Turning to Japan, Molotov defied that country
and boasted that his country would defend “the
frontiers of Outer Mongolia,” once a Chinese prov-
ince but now Sovietised. His reference to the Axis
was significant—“the U.S.S.R.’s relations with Italy
have improved, and it has not refused to improve
trade relations with Germany ; negotiations have been
interrupted but may be resumed.”
“We stand for peace,” quoth Stalin’s mouth-
piece, “but we must be careful” ; and Molotov was
exceedingly careful. Russia is such an enigma to the
Western world, and Russian minds work so mysteri-
ously, that distant observers can only guess at the
Red Government’s reasons for being caution incar-
nate ; so these guesses are in order:
The internal situation is bad. A Government which
has had to shoot so many of its generals and commis-
sars must have troops of enemies. It couldn’t shoot all
their friends and supporters.
Hitler has got Stalin scared stiff.
In spite of the famines, the war on the kulaks and
the purges, there must still be millions of men in
the medley of republics who remember how they were
licked and cowed by the Germans, and who don’t want
to fight Germans again.
The Spanish war showed that Russian ’planes and
tanks were inferior to those of the Axis Powers, and
the familiar brag about the immensity of Russian
armament production may be mostly blah.
Japan has been fighting the Chinese with only part
of its army, and that not the best part. Molotov
admitted that the Soviet has been backing the Chinese
and the Outer Mongolians, and there is always the
possibility that this support may bring on war. A war
on two fronts, with almost the width of two continents
between, would be a war lost.
Alliance with France and Britain did not prevent
a frontier shooting, followed by the threat of a punitive
expedition, from blazing into a general war, nor did it
prevent Old Russia from being horribly defeated. A new
alliance might mean 1914 over again without Japan,
Finland, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Serbia and Monte-
negro on the Russian side. It might mean 1915 and
1916 over again without Italy.
It would be so much more comfortable to stand
aside and see the Axis Powers and the two Western
Democracies batter each other to pieces, and then step
in and Bolshevise the winners and losers —beginning, of
course, with the losers.
“A cardinal feature of the Russian case,” Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” blithers, “is that we should guaran-
tee the ‘squeeze’ Baltic States, Lithuania, Latvia and
Estonia, as well as Poland. Why not?” But why ;
and who are “we”? In a statement reported by the
“Age” and the Sydney “Sun,” though not by the
Sydney morning papers, the Australian Minister
for External Affairs said: “I am in a posi-
tion to repudiate any suggestion that either the British
Government or the Commonwealth Government
would enter into any agreement prejudicial to the in-
terests of Japan” ; and that is what matters most to Us.
“S. M. Herald,” “arguing,” as does its Professor
Roberts, that the proud British Commonwealth of
Nations should do the Moscow crawl, refers scorn-
fully to “the defunct policy of appeasement.” That
policy survives, although the “Herald’s” own policy
is rotting in the gutter. “Appeasement” is not much
of a word, but, rightly taken, it means peace by nego-
tiation ; and that is what the plain people of all the
nations want. Peace by negotiation ; expulsion of the
fear of war and of want from the hearts of decent and
kindly men and women; a long farewell to the insane
competition in armaments which threatens to ruin
us all! The cause is noble, and it will prevail.
Slum Abolition in Melbourne.
A start has been made on slum abolition in Mel-
bourne. The Housing Commission has half a million
to spend annually on providing decent homes for
people who at present cannot be evicted from insani-
tary hovels because Government and councils know
perfectly well they have nowhere else to go. It
was estimated some years ago that there were 10,000
dwellings in Melbourne which did not fulfil coun-
cils’ requirements, but health officers could do no-
thing about it because to eliminate a slum in one
place only produced a worse slum in another.
Two schemes are under way. About 400 houses
are to be erected at Fishermen’s Bend, where there is
already a State scheme in operation. The houses could
be better architecturally, but they are bright, fresh,
clean, colorful and reasonably roomy. The effect on
the occupants is shown in the well-kept appearance
or the gardens in the ten-year-old State scheme. They
are in sharp contrast to the tramp’s-pants appearance
of the horrible dwellings with 20-foot frontages which
line all the railways running out to the better suburbs.
Another scheme will harbor 150 families from
the northern suburbs, and there will be a group for
the accommodation of large families.
The commission has a plan which purports to
negative creation of fresh slums through badly-con-
ceived projects for expansion of the city. Municipali-
ties have been divided into zones for shopping, resi-
dential and manufacturing purposes. It remains to
be seen how this will work out in practice. One effect
of the model suburbs hitherto erected has been to
raise the rents of ramshackle areas adjacent, and this
has led to the crowding of more and more poor
families into a smaller and smaller space.
Government by Officials.
Australia has seven Parliaments, seven Governments
and seven Government Houses, and six of each are
superfluous. The Governments are constantly com-
plaining that their powers are insufficient, and in the
case of the Commonwealth Government this is true.
Yet the Commonwealth Government, like all the
others, has, with the consent of the Commonwealth
Parliament, delegated excessive powers to departments,
boards and commissions ; and Mr. Menzies has been
sorely embarrassed by sorry examples of the subser-
vient spirit which this is apt to breed even in respon-
sible Ministers of the Crown.
Sydney has a Milk Board which years ago, in
effect, fixed the retail price of milk at a penny a quart
more than Londoners pay and never alters it. In good
seasons and bad the price of milk remains at 7d. a
quart. The board also exercises a variety of other
powers, such as arbitrarily compelling dairymen to
shift their quarters, and granting or refusing licenses
and supplies. When the Minister of Health was chal-
lenged to justify certain of these proceedings, he
pleaded that he couldn’t legally interfere.
N.S.W. has a Transport Commission which has
seized motor-lorries on the King’s highway and airily
sentences this or that tramway, authorised by Parlia-
ment, to the scrap-heap. From time to time Transport
Commissioners and Railway Commissioners go abroad.
What these trips cost the public never learns —the
information is not divulged, even to Parliament,
although the cost is charged up to the taxpayer. The
taxpayer has also had to foot the bill for staff pay-
increases granted by the Commissioner of Railways.
And the Commonwealth has a Broadcasting
Commission. This commission runs concerts in com-
petition with taxpayers, and—again in competition
with taxpayers—it is going to run papers, “like 8.8. C.”
It never tells Parliament how the concerts panned out,
and, without reference to Parliament and without call-
ing for applications, it appointed an editor at £l5OO
a year.
These newspaper ventures were challenged in
Parliament. After shuffling for a couple of weeks, the
P.M.G. replied that the proposed journal (a commis-
sion employee says there are to be two) “is of the
kind which the commission may properly determine
to publish, and the Government is not prepared to ask
Parliament to prevent such publication.”
The question is whether Parliament is prepared
to let the commission get away with this impudent
abuse of its authority and to sanction the Minister’s
ignoble acquiescence in it. One very effective way of
objecting would be to make a cut in the annual fee
charged for a listener’s license, from a guinea to 15s.
The fact that the commission wants to run papers is
prima-facie evidence that the fee is extortionate. If
the commission’s income were reasonable instead of
being excessive—so much so that it has amassed a
surplus of £302,000 in six years—it would not want
to run papers or go in for grandiose building schemes.
But the affair of the A.B.C. papers has been
overshadowed by the affair of the Sydney G.P.O.
contract.
After consultation with departmental officers, and
with colleagues Cameron (then P.M.G.) and Harri-
son (P.M.G. now, Assistant Minister then), Mr.
Thorby, when Minister of Works, approved of a con-
tract being given to Grant and Sons for construction
of a building with a sandstone finish on the upper
storeys. The date was April 18 ; Grants’ tender was
for* £410,776, and it was the lowest received. On
May 16, Mr. Thorby, now a private member, was
informed in answer to a question that H. G. Whittle
and Sons had been “notified of the acceptance of
their tender,” which was for a building, faced with
terra-cotta, the price being £1451 more than Grants
specified. He brought the circumstances before the
House on a motion for adjournment. Mr. Perkins,
“representing the Minister for the Interior in this
House,” pleaded that the architect, the Director-
General of Works, the Minister for the Interior
(Senator Foil) and the new P.M.G. “favored terra-
cotta facing.” Mr. Harrison amplified this ignomini-
ous “argument”: “the departmental officers, all
those experts who have considered the matter, have
recommended to the Minister that terra-cotta be used.”
Members of both Houses were so dissatisfied
with these “explanations,” and the situation became so
embarrassing, that the P.M. himself intervened, prom-
ising that no contract would be signed till the Gov-
ernment had “investigated the position.” Two days
later, he had to admit, with obvious chagrin, that,
notwithstanding his undertaking, the Whittle contract
had been signed, and to say that the affair would have
to be inquired into immediately by a royal commis-
sion, headed by a Judge.
Government by officials is a greater danger to
this democracy than all the “isms.”
The Stevens Slump.
Certified by the Sydney U.A.P. Press as a financial
genius, and as a leader urgently needed by an im-
perilled nation —as Prime Minister or at least Treas-
urer—Mr. Stevens, the N.S.W. Premier, introduced
his Budget on September 27, the third month of the
financial year. British Budgets are introduced in the
first month of the financial year, and the Chancellor
of the Exchequer has to range over a field almost
beyond Mr. Stevens’s conception. His estimates of
revenue and expenditure are generally pretty right
Mr. Stevens’s have proved wildly wrong.
Mr. Stevens blithely predicted a surplus —of
£7785. He reported with “great satisfaction” that “all
business undertakings included in the Budget” had done
well in 1937-38, the Government railways in particular.
That concern had produced a “working surplus of
£6,631,400, available to meet interest, sinking fund and
exchange,” and the “working surplus” for 1938-39
was expected to reach £6,802,000. Mr. Stevens prom-
ised “further reductions” in workmen’s weekly fares.
The Premier mentioned incidentally that the
acknowledged State public debt had increased from
£306,525,500 in 1932 to £354,167,200 in 1938. He did
not mention what had been borrowed, with his
blessing, by “semi-Governmental authorities,” that
being the new way of getting round the Financial
Agreement, but a carping Queensland member has
pointed out that “semi-Governmental borrowings”
have increased from £6,000,000 in 1934-35 to
£15,000,000 in 1937-38, whereas loans from State
Governments amounted to £21,000,000 in 1934-35 and
£13,000,000 in 1937-38. The “semi-Governmental
borrowings” were mostly for N.S.W.
After a few further remarks on his wise financial
administration, Mr. Stevens retired to await the call
from Canberra that never came. Anticipating it, he
handed over the Treasury to Mr. Mair. His last act
as Treasurer was to produce a bill increasing the
salaries of Ministers and members by £14,000 p.a.,
and dating the increases back to the first of July.
Except that the salary was increased when he
entered upon his new duties, Mr. Mair was “the mug.”
Pleading for Canberra to carry him, he has had to
confess that the Stevens “surplus” has gone down
the wind, and that the deficiency will run into mil-
lions. On the Government railways “a loss of
£1,400,000 is expected,” although, in spite of the
promised reduction in workmen’s weekly ticket
charges, fares and freight rates were substantially
increased on March 1. These increases were designed
to bring in 10 p.c. more revenue, but it is dolorously
confessed that there has been a further drift, people
stung by high service.charges being more and more
addicted to providing their own transport.
The anticipated loss of £1,400,000 means, if
realised, that between two and three millions will have
gone west. Railway revenue is annually swelled by
£BOO,OOO from the taxes, and by other concessions of
the kind, while the department is having the use,
tax-free, of millions borrowed by the State Govern-
ment round 4 p.c. Moreover, the Auditor-General
annually reports that provision for depreciation, in-
surance and so forth is farcical.
While Mr. Stevens and Mr. Mair were gloomily
considering the railway accounts, the Leg. Assembly
intervened with a demand for concessions to wages
men in the department (there are 35,000), concessions
which, however reasonable in good times, would, if
the railways were privately owned, result in the early
appointment of a receiver. The motion was: —•
That, m the opinion of this House, the Government
Railways Act should be amended to provide for two
weeks’ annual pay, in lieu of one week, as at present,
and three months’ extended leave on full pay after
20 years’ service, is stead of one month.
It was carried against the Government by 47 to 27,
14 Ministerialists voting for it. Not apparently
because they expect the additional leave to be
granted, but as a sign of their general dissatisfaction
with the drift to high prices, steep service charges and
financial chaos under the Stevens regime.
Mr. Stevens is due for a long rest. New South
Wales is almost as sick of him as it is of Mr. Lang.
The Way They Run Russia.
“T.P.”: There are two Foreign Offices. One is
the Communist International, housed by the Govern-
ment and concerned with many and diverse brotherly
tasks, such as preventing national training in Australia.
The “national” Foreign Office could till 1927
scarcely be called an office at all. In that year the
illness of Stresemann seemed to open the way for a
Communist revolution in Germany, and Litvinov
seemed just the man to keep democratic countries
quiet during the revoluting process while Radek,
Dmitrov and others attended to the revolution.
So Litvinov was pushed into the limelight. He
was useful for years, especially in France during the
Blum period. But he was not in the first flight of
commissars or even a member of the real Govern-
ment. He was just another member of the rank and
file in the large Central Committee of the Communist
party.
The real rulers of U.S.S.R. are small committees.
They are elected by the Central Committee and have
the last word in control not only of the Communist
party —to whose congresses and not to the U.S.S.R.
Parliament detailed public reports of the country's
rulers are made —but of the U.S.S.R. itself.
Members of the Central Political Bureau are
Comrades Andreyev, Kaganovich, Kalinin, Kruschev,
Mikoyan, Molotov, Stalin, Voroshilov and Zhdanov,
with two substitutes, Beria and Shvernik.
These men include the executive head of the
C.P. (Stalin), the working head of the U.S.S.R.
(Molotov), the working head of the Russian Republic
proper (Kalinin), the working head of the Red Army
(Voroshilov) and their principal assistants.
Then there is the secretariat of the committee:
Andreyev, chairman of the Communist party,
Malenkov, Stalin and Zhdanov. Stalin is general
secretary. He holds no Cabinet office in the national
Government of Russia at all, and only one very minor
official Parliamentary position. But he is the Big Boss.
He gives the order for purges, the medicine being
administered at the back of the neck.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T ”; “Temperamental,” a good word
once, is nowadays vilely misused. Some
minx of the films behaves like a spoilt
child or gives an absurd exhibition of
wounded vanity in public or on “the set.”
Is she ill-bred, ill-conditioned, ill-man-
nered, stuck up or anything like that?
No ; merely “temperamental.” Some
swelled-headed brat of the tennis courts
questions a linesman’s decision, throws
his racquet on the ground, singles out
a spectator for a supercilious look or
demonstrates his withering contempt for
the ball-boy. He also is “temperamen-
tal.” Now Mr. Gorman, M.L.A., an-
swering a very belated charge that, when
a Glebe (Sydney) alderman, he cut up a
commission with a municipal engineer,
has found another significance for the
ill-treated adjective:
The statement suggesting that I re-
ceived money is untrue in every particular,
and made by a very temperamental and
unreliable person with whom I have never
been at all friendly, and to whom I had
occasion to point out in 1931 that if he
persisted in intemperance I would, as
Acting Mayor, have to suspend him, and
as Mayor in 1933, in the exercise of my
duty, I also clashed with him.
So you are “temperamental” in Glebe
(or is it Annandale?) if you hit the bottle
too hard.
“E.E.”: Perhaps it’s just as well that
George and Elizabeth, of the modern
generation, are visiting Canada, and not
dear old Queen Vic. She would never
have stood the breeziness of the
Canadians. There is a story that at a
public function in the ’eighties the Queen
sent an equerry to inquire the name of
the tune played by the band. The em-
barrassed official was obliged to inform
Victoria that the tune was called “Come
Where the Booze Is Cheaper.” The
Queen turned a frigid eye upon her un-
happy attendant, “And what are booze?”
she inquired in icy tones.
“D.E.”: The astounding contempt for
Ministers of the Crown and members of
Parliament shown in the affairs of the
A.B.C. paper and the Sydney Post Office
contract is no plant of recent growth. Visit-
ing Melbourne once, I met the member for
our district, who said he had some busi-
ness to do in the P.M.G.’s department,
and invited me to accompany him. He
asked for Mr. Z, and after some delay
Mr. Z consented to see him. In the
House my M.H.R. acquaintance was
considered a bit of a firebrand. In the
presence of Mr. Z he wasn’t even a Japa-
nese match. One would have thought
that the attendance of a third party, and
him a strange newspaperman, would have
made some difference; but no: Mr. Z
coolly assumed the position of superior,
and the member humbly accepted that of
subordinate. It was a revelation to me
of the extent to which there had de-
veloped even then the arrogance of non-
elected persons and the servility of the
elected.
:|s sit :> *
“Hawkshaw”: Every now and then,
when there’s nothing doing in the Pyjama
Girl Case, the N. S. Wales police get a
spot of publicity by resurrecting an un-
served summons of vast antiquity and
haling some puzzled individual before a
court to account for a peccadillo he has
long forgotten. Latest instance was at
Lithgow, where a respectable citizen
named Hyham, who had lived in the
“I've counted this lot , boss. There be eight of 'em!”
district all his life save when he was
getting wounded at Gallipoli and in
France, was brought up on a thirty-year-
old warrant charging him with an assault
during the “Peter Bowling strike,” a con-
sequence of the Wade Government’s
gaoling of miners’ president Bowling.
Why it took thirty years to find Hyham
and why, when he was found, the old
charge was brought without any evidence
to support it (“the police had no evidence
to offer and the accused was discharged”)
are just some more mysteries to add to
the long catalogue of much more serious
criminal enigmas which remain unsolved
in the senior State.
“Runa”: That patron of the telegraph
service who hated to see waste and filled
in the allotted spaces with “Hoorays”
(B. 31/5/’39) had a parallel in a Maori-
land damsel who received a proposal of
marriage by letter with the request that
she telegraph her reply to the anxious
swain. As the lady had been brought up
in Dunedin, and the department
allowed twelve words for sixpence, she
could not bear to send a mere “Yes.”
Allowing for four words in the address
and one for the signature she satisfied her
thrifty disposition by filling in with seven
“Yeses.” Bridegroom-to-be kept that
telegram, and nowadays in moments of
domestic stress, when his wife regrets
that she ever met him, he produces it.
v *■ * ' ' *
“Toekang Gigi”: Professional con-
sideration of Mr. Chamberlain’s tense and
clenched though kindly facial expression
does not suggest iron determination
underlying a friendly nature so much as
somewhat misfitting dental plates. To
such a man the perfect set would make
no difference except one of personal
comfort but amongst weaker natures the
alteration of facial expression sometimes
created as an unintentional sideline of
dental art may produce some curious
effects I once had a patient with large
Diacid features and a disposition to
match until he was able to display
proudly the full uppers and lowers which
rheumatic disturbances had wished upon
him through medical advice. His
daughter doing a Uni. history course,
insisted that he had become an exact
facial reproduction of Nero, and proved
it to him from pictures in her textbooks,
For many months he became Nero, to
the great distress of his family, but to the
best of his ability short of arson and
fiddling. It wasn’t until he Nero’d some
chance bar acquaintance into busting
the teeth that I was able to stop it. Now
he looks more like Buddha, an essentially
peaceable person, and behaves accord-
ingly, thanks to my mechanic.
* * * *
“Koura”: Let the high moral tone of
the talkies never again be called into
question. In “Idiot’s Delight” as it’s
played at Sydney Minerva, hero, meeting
an old flame and touched that she should
remember the place of their first en-
counter has the line “To think that out
of all the hundreds of sordid hotel bed-
rooms you’ve been in you should
remember ” But in the talkie version
at the St. James they have refined it to
“Of all the hundreds of sordid hotels ”
There was a similar taboo on the wicked
word “bedroom” on a Maoriland weekly
for which I once reported divorce courts,
but I never agreed that copy sprinkled
with references to “a certain room” —
the official circumlocution —looked any
the less sinister.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide’s most lifelike
statue is down for repairs. It is the
figure of a house-painter, slung in a
“bos’n’s chair” high up on the side of a
wall, and has been there for 25 years.
Lifelike it certainly is, and before it
became a familiar landmark it is reputed
to have caused complaints about over-
time-working, Sabbath-breaking, and
so on.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A smart bit of business or rob-
bery was done at White City, Melbourne,
the other night. Two men posing as de-
tectives arrested a youth, and, telling him
that he was too young to be squandering
his pittance on the dogs, took a betting
ticket away from him. While the youth
was raising objections to the arrest, one
“detective” passed the ticket to his com-
panion, who promptly disappeared. The
dog on which the bet was laid had won.
* ❖ v *
“F.S.”: Irruption of the question of
sleep into recent talk about Australian
defences has resulted in the circulation of
some erroneous ideas about insomnia.
Inability to sleep, as all sufferers ought to
know, is due, if not to physical derange-
ment, to some conflict in the patient
which he hasn’t the understanding to re-
solve. Hence it is Nature’s way of warn-
ing him that he should be not sleeping
but thinking. When Newton was on the
eve of his epoch-making discovery he
could not sleep at all. George Reid did
an enormous amount of work, and his
extraordinarily alert mind' subsisted on
almost no sleep at all. But when he was
flitting from one political meeting to
another he could sleep anywhere in cab
or tram. He could even sleep standing on
his feet; and a ten minutes’ nap would
completely restore his thinking powers,
He had a mountain of fat to maintain as
well, and was perpetually stoking it with
food, but he never complained of lack of
Nature’s alleged balm to hurt minds,
* *
“C.R.”: A well-to-do Indian resident
of Kaniva (Percy Leason’s birthplace) in
the Vic. Wimmera district has left the
kids at the State school a typically
Oriental legacy. They are to eat sweets
in his memory twice a year, on his birth-
day and the anniversary of his death.
There is a trust fund of £l5O to provide
the confectionery to all eternity.
*** , * ,
“Mac Hoots : The strange fellow who
wandered about Sydney looking for the
“angel” out of the show at the Roya
until the police thwarted his matrimonial
intentions could hardly be said to typify
the Australian’s reaction to a stage per-
sonality, but there have been a couple
of more significant incidents recently.
When Lotte Lehmann, suffering from a
cold at the Town Hall, said “I feel sick
that I sing so rotten,” the audience, obvi-
ously reacting to a bull’s-eye, clapped
and cheered in sympathetic amusement;
but when Lina Basquette, after the
premiere of “Idiot’s Delight” at the
Minerva, blew a kiss to the dress-circle
I saw no boiled shirts palpitating visibly
in the uncomfortable pause that followed.
The lady is both beautiful and clever, but
it was too theatrical a gesture, especially
after a play designed to make the im-
pressionable go home burning against
armament-manufacturers rather than
filled with erotic impulses.
“Spokeshave”: Vic. State Government
has approved of Stonnington, Malvern,
the one-time vice-regal residence, going
under the hammer. The Hogan Ministry
bought it from the trustees of the Wagner
estate in 1928 for £35,000. It was leased
to the Federal Government for the
Governor-General’s use, then reverted to
the State Government, which let it on
lease to become a school for girls. In the
infantile paralysis epidemic it became an
emergency hospital. Its most popular
tenants were the Stradbrokes, whose last
function in it was a luncheon to the press.
A pressman arrived late and found
Lady Stradbroke waiting on the door-
step with a fierce light in her eye. “I
had a terrible time finding your place,
your Excellency,” he blushingly ex-
plained. “Yes,” said her Excellency,
“it is extraordinary how little the Mel-
bourne taxi-drivers know about their
own city.” The pressman didn’t refute
this slur on an honorable profession, but
he had arrived by tram.
THE BIRTHRATE.
“Mr. Hughes said that peace, security, standards
of living—-all the things that Australians u.ost
valued —were threatened by the fall in the birth-
rate.”
There is many an injunction, pressed on us
with earnest unction,
Touching what we ought to eat and drink
and wear,
But it’s seldom that suggestions upon these
important questions
Have a totally disinterested air.
Here’s some sound advice, however, you can
readily dissever
From devices used for raking in the quids,
Billy Hughes’s exhortation to a careless, casual
nation:
“Have More Kids!”
“Wear More Wool” in tones sonorous sturdy
pastoralists chorus,
While the cattle kings would have us “Eat
More Meat”;
And it still is recollected how the cockies were
directed
Not so very long ago to “Grow More
Wheat”
(Though this doubtless well-intentioned counsel
is no longer mentioned
Since the market started going down the
skids);
But a goodlier production is conveyed in the
instruction
Have More Kids.
“Drink More Beer” you’re recommended at
the joints wherein it’s vended—
Thus you do your bit in boosting brewery
shares—
And the chaps who raise our shellfish obviously
aren’t unselfish
When they shout abroad the merits of their
wares.
But you’ll serve your country better, make her
presently your debtor,
If you disregard the oysters and the tids;
For the problem which we’ve now to concen-
trate upon is how to
Have More Kids.
“Eat More Apples” is the dictum of the
blokes who’ve grown and picked ’em;
“Drink More Wine” by vineyard-owners
was designed;
And it wouldn’t draw disclaimers from the
tribe of slogan-framers
Should you hint they’ve axes of their own
to grind.
But it’s clear that no such chilly imputation
rests on Billy
When his negligent compatriots he bids
Sharply to be more prolific —or, in plain, blunt
terms specific—
Have Mere Kids!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Hossec”: We were working back at
the local branch of the bank, calling over
figures as part of a hunt for an elusive
balance. Simultaneously two carpenters
were earning some overtime erecting
extra partitions for the tellers and cleri-
cal staff. My mate’s voice droned on,
the monotony thereof being broken by
an occasional “fort - eye - five - three,”
“twent - eye - seven - two,” “nint-eye-one-
eleven,” etc. The hammer-and-nail
lads did not realise the significance
of the long “I” sound a common
means employed when calling figures
of differentiating between, say, ninety
and nineteen. They regarded it as an ob-
jectionable affectation, for, after suffering
in silence for some hour or more/ one
of them, in carefully modulated tones,
addressed the other thus: “Ai sai, Bill,
pass the blank-eye putt-eye, will you?”
* * %
“Nakh”: Some Melbourne citizens
are to be deprived of a source of inno-
cent enjoyment shortly when the Com-
monwealth Bank in Collins-street re-
moves its swastika-embellished floor-
covering and substitutes a new one.
Hitherto when their daily paper head-
lines have made them purple with indig-
nation against the Fiihrer they could al-
ways repair to the institution and trample
the Nazi emblem underfoot. The bank
authorities laid down the floor design
when the swastika was no more than an
ancient symbol for good luck. When
Hitler rose to power Germans came to
believe that the bank had paid their
nation a delicate compliment. When
the dictator became a trifle unpopular
they complained that ultra-patriots were
using it as a.n opportunity for exercising
their spleen. The patriots asserted that
they were merely expressing their
opinion symbolically. To settle the
matter once and for all the bank has
ordered a new floor design decorated
with simple squares. Nobody can object
to a square.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: How little importance
can be given to the opinions of wit-
nesses about speed, distance and time in
an accident was shown in a cross-exami-
nation in the Anson bomber tragedy in-
quiry in Melbourne. A witness stated
positively that he had heard the ’plane’s
engines four or five minutes before he
saw the doomed craft. Then he thought
for a moment and said it was five
minutes. Judge Piper’s assistant promptly
pulled out his watch and asked the wit-
ness to measure mentally the time that
elapsed between his hearing the ’plane
and seeing it. The court fell so silent that
the ticking was quite
audible. After 30 seconds
the witness shouted, “That’s
it!”
* * *
“X.S.”: Matrimonial
complications are increasing
in Victoria with the influx
of aliens, and the quaint
usages of the law help in the
bad cause. Recently a
Czech (or a Slovak) was up
for bigamy in Prahran.
But the Gent. Ones couldn’t
prove that he had been
legally married in his home-
land, because it couldn’t
legally be proved that
Czechoslovakia upholds
monogamy. There was no
evidence available but com-
mon knowledge and report,
so the allegedly bigamous
gentleman got off without
a stain on his character.
The same situation arose in
1879 in England when Scotland was re-
garded as a foreign land. A man could
“Are you a heavy smoker?"
marry in Scotland and then take unto
himself an English bride because there
was no legal evidence that Scotland
wasn’t polygamously or even poly-
andrously inclined,
* * * *
“s.T.S.” : The fall of the mighty. An
Ade laide general-knowledge “bee” on
p o p U ] a r lines lately asked for the names
0 £ an y fj ve hooks by Dickens. £3 10s.
h on the ans wer. The lady to whom
the ques tion fell got out David Copper-
fte[d without much hesitation, but then
s t uc h—hazarded Mrs. Wiggs of the
Cabbage-Patch— and the umpire said
ut ‘
* *
Scat * d belt an y. c . ove tke ? ar
who sa V s that , two individuals who think
ahke sho V ld IIIY l 1 l Yf J , und f r T , the same f oof ’
Since early childhood Ive insisted on
dein S first ln the bathroom every morn-
,n B— ll , saves , S ro P in § unde , r t he bath,
"bere the other chap usually drops the
soa P- Now, in the diggings I moved to
some months ago, there s another chap
who nourishes the same habit. It was
ad n §b* for a while he used to take his
s^°Y/ . ei at \ a ; m 7 so . sneaked m a ]\ ead
dI P a £ d took P 1 ! 116 ?^ ex
morning, however I heard him warbling
under the_ spray at 6.30, so I replied with
, 6 - 15 i he f following morning. It wen on
bke that for. a while, until the landlady
kl( * ed about us setting off alarm-clocks
and taking showers somewhere in the
vicinity of midnight. I pacified her with
a bunch of roses, and went back to work
earnest s h owering at 11t45 p . m .
Horace answered that with 11.30 the fol-
lowing evening, and soon we were tear-
ing home from work to have to-morrow
morning’s shower ahead of each other.
It’s been going on like that for some time
now, and this morning I had the shower
which I should rightly have in three
weeks’ time. But it isn’t that that’s worry-
ing me. To-morrow Horace is leaving
the boarding-house to be married, so
now, to return to my normal routine,
I’ll have to go without a shower for three
weeks.
* * * *
“Dhas”: When A. J. Cronin was
attacked on the Red Page some time ago
for writing too fulsome an introduction
to a biography of a Yankee surgeon I
thought he might have been excused on
the grounds of medical if not literary
etiquette. But now he’s taken to writing
“provocative articles” which, like the
vaporings of Beverley Nicholls, are grac-
ing Australian flapper mags. A Sydney
weekly offers Cronin on “The Secret of
Holding Your Man,” quoting his breath-
taking discovery that “men are still
attracted by womanliness.” Is the author
of Hatter's Castle gathering material for
a new tragedy ; or can it be that the
writer who attacked money-grubbing in
the medical profession so strongly in The
Citadel sees no harm in going the Grub-
street way in journalism?
$ # ❖ ❖
“Spokeshave”: Recent references in
The Bulletin to Australians as linguists
recall a sad case. A Melbourne land-
scape painter prepared himself for a
“Stand clear , Elsie — it'll be down any minute .”
sojourn in Paris by learn-
ing the language per
medium of gramophone
records, of which he
could only obtain a
couple. By continual re-
iteration he acquired an
almost perfect accent and
a stock of phrases in the
best Parisian manner. He
duly arrived in Par's and
started to use his equip-
ment. Nobody could
take exception to his ac-
cent, his grammar or his
idiomatic use of the lan-
guage. It could not have
been bettered in the best
native circles. But after
a while he noticed that
the French people in his
pension were beginning
to look at him strangely,
and he observed signs
that he was being
avoided. Unable to ex-
plain this queer behavior
he asked the proprietress
about it. “Well, you see,
monsieur,” she said, “you
wear a beard, you look
like a Parisian and you
speak the language to perfection. But you
know so little of it that everybody con-
cludes you are mentally deficient.”
“Whitehall”: In spite of the abolition
of flogging in the R.N. (B. 26/4/’39) one
cat still remains on official Admiralty
strength—drawing an allowance for milk
and cat’s meat of Is. 6d. a week! The
sum used to be Is. only, but after the
Great War one of the Admiralty office
“chars” petitioned for a rise on behalf
of the cat. Lord Lee of Fareham, then
First Lord, sounded his colleagues on
the matter, and one suggested that, in
view of the need for economy arul the
high price of skins, this type of destroyer
should be liquidated. The matter was
then referred to the Financial Secretary
(as his first predecessor in office, Samuel
Pepys, had noted that “not even a cat
should swing in the navy office but he
should know it”), and finally Lord Lee
minuted: “Considerations of humanity
preclude any further delay in coming to
a decision in this matter.” So the
Admiralty cat saved her skin, got her
extra zack and is still one of the 4000
members of the Admiralty staff.
* >;c
“Heresone”: “Affair” hardly goes far
enough in his debunking of astrology (B.
17/5/’39). The Babylonian astrologers
connected each planet with one of their
gods, and their interpreunion of the
planets’ influence on men’s lives thus
depended on the character of the god. As
modern astrologers have adopted their
beliefs almost unchanged from their
early forerunners, they are, if they take
their profession seriously, in a sense
priests of one of the most degraded and
sensual cults in history, and their dupes
are paying homage to deities in whose
honor men were emasculated, women
prostituted and babies burned alive.
* * * *
“Fiona”: The humble spud years ago
got an unexpected advertisement from a
lady journalist who was visiting M.L.
She had, she said in an interview,
travelled by coach, and had marvelled at
the skin and coloring possessed by the
coach-driver. When asked to account for
his schoolgirl complexion he had
solemnly replied, “I put it down to raw
potatoes. I eat one every day, and have
done so for the past twenty years.” For
a while every hopeful flapper included
a potato in her daily ration: discussion
waxed keen as to whether they were
better grated or just chewed. Then it
leaked out that the coach-driver, an in-
veterate leg-puller, had since advocated
as beauty aids raw cabbage, boiled
thistles and sour milk. That finished the
potato boom.
* * * *
“Miro”: Mention of duplication in
city names reminds me that I personally
once suffered. The M.L. postal authorities,
usually reasonable enough, decreed that
any mail addressed to a town, village
or city should go to the nearest possessor
of the name if the country was not stated
in the address. I addressed my letter to
London, and six months later wrote in-
dignantly to know why it had been
ignored. Before the reply came I re-
ceived the letter back from a then-un-
known-to-me London, Ontario, and
learned from the Auckland P.O. of the
ruling under which it had gone there.
The rule was rescinded hastily after a
politician received a letter back from the
same Canadian village and discovered it
had happened because he had omitted the
“England.” His unpleasant remarks
restored sanity.
THE GOODS THEY SELL.
“The Commonwealth Statistician credits - Austi alian
breweries with the production of 80,500,000 gallons
of beer last year.”
Lilt me a lyric of malt and hop,
Build me a ballad of nut-brown ale,
Set to the music of corks that pop
And the swish of pumps that pull their tale
When- and wherever are set for sale
The pots that hearten, the pints that cheer,
And the clink of coin that the “peters” nail
For eighty million gallons of beer!.
Paint me a tankard with foam atop,
Limn me a barrel the great drays hale
From brewery gates for the stay and prop
Of whomsoever should thirst assail,
Tough and burly or fair and frail,
Young and active or in the sere,
In town or country, by hill or dale—
Eighty million gallons of beer!
Snap me a shot'of the swanky shop,
The thick-thronged counter where men regale
Till the warning “Time, gents,” calls a stop
And feet are dragged from the restful rail,
And legs are braced for the homeward trail!
Sling me a stave of the stocks and gear
That help our brewers to tip the scale
With eighty million gallons of beer!
Prince, wool may cheapen and wool may fan,
But one drought at least we need never fear,
Year in, year out, while our Bungs retail
Eighty million gallons of beer!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


'jsagg&zs
fes.
. -v-i
o
10 for 9d. 20 for V 6.
E 1865
It’s their extra touch of quality
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
76, «*•»%'
SPECIALLY
POLITICAL POINTS
There was very little cross-voting in
Wilmot (Tas.), but Labor got 514 of the
Independent’s 799 preferences, and that
put Spurr in with a majority of 69 over
Lyons’s associate, Guy. It means that
the Opposition has won the last three
by-elections, Wakefield (S.A.), Griffith
(Q.) and Wilmot. But with only eight
votes to the good in Griffith and 69 in
Wilmot, it can’t depend on holding
either; and the peculiar circumstances
which led to its gaining Wakefield for
the first time are not at all likely to be
repeated.
Except in Tasmania, the A.L.P. has
never cared for preferential voting and
the open go, but the democratic combi-
nation is a preventive of sectarian break-
aways, such as are disturbing the party
bosses in Queensland, and a cure for the
factionism which has scourged the N. S.
Wales branch. In Tasmania it has en-
abled Labor to win the last three con-
tested Senate seats and four of the five
Doing the Moscow Crawl (Oil).
seats in the House —and the fifth is held
by a precarious majority.
In the scrutiny of Wilmot preferences,
Weston, the second Labor candidate, got
249 from the Independent Watson, and
in the last count 97.5 of Weston’s prefer-
ences went to Spurr, a Catholic. Queens-
land Labor should study the Wilmot
figures instead of talking nonsense about
dishing Webb’s Protestant Labs, by abol-
ishing preferential voting.
Answering the periodical demand, for
the 40-hour week, Minister McLeay
pointed out that only U.S.A., France and
Maoriland have adopted it, and France
has had to lengthen the hours in arma-
ment factories and the like. McLeay
might have pointed the moral, which is
that all three countries got into difficul-
ties, those of France having actually im-
perilled the country; and that in U.S.A.
the 40-hour week has had no more effect
on unemployment than the substitution
of Esperanto for English would have.
“S. M. Herald” was dreadfully dis-
appointed at Moscow’s rejection of its
darling alliance, but it consoled itself with
the thought that the Reds might relent
if Chamberlain and Daladier crawled on
their mid-regions to them. Moscow, it
seems, doesn’t trust Chamberlain or
Daladier:
That mistrust is one of the legacies of
Munich and of the defunct policy of
appeasement... .The price she [Russia] asks
for a pact is higher than it would be if
no such misgivings lingered. Britain and
France almost certainly will be obliged
to pay it Prudence dictates the closing
of the gap without a day’s unnecessary
delay.
“Prudence”? Cowardice the old girl
means.
Beasley is right: the sorry proceedings
in the Department of the Interior and
the P.M.G.’s department in the matter of
the Sydney G.P.O. tenders —and in the
matter of the A.B.C. papers as well —
show how “Ministers have ceased to
function as the administrative heads of
their departments.” Menzies will have to
drop Harrison, Foil and Perkins.
The Japanese in Manchukuo claim to
have shot down 42 ’planes and repulsed
1000 troops from Outer Mongolia. Outer
Mongolia used to be a Chinese province,
but is now under Soviet Russian eontrol.
The same is true of Sinkiang, on which
the Russians have strengthened their hold
since 1937. Not only Japanese imperial-
ism but Russian imperialism is on the
march in Asia.
Wealth produced in Westralia during
the year to June 30 was valued at
£27,839,600, and the Government Statis-
tician can’t remember a higher figure.
Produce of mines and quarries advanced
from £5,803,300 to £7,170,600, and the
wheat yield increased by 14,675,800
bushels to 36,224,800 bushels, 1936-37
having been a bad year. Unfortunately
prices have been so low that the
36,000,000-bushel harvest was unpayable.
Growers are hooing against hope that
Menzies will put them in the way of
making their farming pay.
A Melbourne crook recently broke into
a house. In investigating the crime the
police were struck by the care with which
he had obliterated his fingerprints and
footmarks on window-sills and garden.
Nothing daunted, they tracked the des-
perado down —and discovered a child of
12. When he was asked where he learnt
his mature methods of escaping detec-
tion he replied: “From one of those
crime magazines, o’ course.” Recent
trials indicate that far graver crimes have
been suggested by sex-and-horror maga-
zines, imports of which were supposed to
have been stopped.
From Molongloside:—-
Before he left Canberra for a spell, Earle
Page explained to the House, in denying
a newspaper report of another crisis—not the
periodical European furphy- —that he was “suf-
fering from a severe attack of hemicrania.”
Not five per cent, of members knew what
hemicrania is. Whatever it may be, the doctor
has returned to business looking all the better
for his rest. His temper has improved, too.
He was quite amiable to Menzies when the
P.M. explained, with obvious chagrin, that
some jack-in-office had signed a binding con-
tract for the Sydney G.P.O. additions, in spite
of the P.M.’s own undertaking that no contract
would be signed until the Government —mean-
ing Menzies himself —had gone into the whole
question. Page won’t join the Government,
nor could he be asked to join, but he mightn’t
now object to Cameron and McEwen becom-
ing Ministers —Fadden, no longer attending
party meetings, can please himself.
“What are the names of persons em-
ployed by A.B.C. in broadcasting state-
ments on foreign affairs?” asked Archie
Cameron, curious, no doubt, as to why
Chamberlain has had no friends on the
A.B.C. circuit. In reply he was given a
long list of university professors, univer-
sity lecturers, past and present, and other
pundits, the names of these learned gentle-
men being rounded off with those of two
journalists. “The Watchman” is not
included—he must be on the staff —but
there is a Mr. E. E. Ewart who was
“Doctor of Political Science at the Uni-
i versity of Innsbruck” ; also Mr. Kurt
Offenburg, who, it seems, was “Lecturer
in Political Economy, Sociology and
Statistics at the University, Frankfurt-on
the-Maine.” Minister Harrison has also
referred to this. gentleman as “an inter-
national journalist.” What exactly is an
international journalist?
“Justapar” in reply:
There has been no “sharp slump in Heffron
stocks” (B. 24/5/’39) among the unions.
Heffron officials have found opposition to the
basis of representation at the unity confer-
ence a winner in consolidating doubtful union
support. Unions which until now have been
with Lang, notably the Amalgamated Engineers’
and the A.W.U., are backing Heffron’s boycott
of the conference unless representation is
altered to a one-vote-one-value basis. The basis
fixed gives 500 A.L.P. League members 10
votes; 500 A.L.P. union members one vote.
British electorates are, of course, pre-
dominantly feminine, and many of the
ladies —and, for that matter, a lot of the
men —never bother to vote. In the Ken-
nington (London) by-election 59.6 p.c.
kept away from the polling booths—a
very poor advertisement for a democracy
challenged by other systems. Though its
general election vote fell from 11,856
to 10,715, Labor gained the seat, the
Conservative vote dropping from 12,401
to 7119. Another effort is to be made
to introduce compulsory voting.
Robust optimism is now affected by
newspapers which until recently were all
for sensationalism and scaremongering.
Sydney “Sunday Sun,” discoverer of the
Black Box in which Mussolini planted
his plot for sinking the Royal Navy, was
the first to strike the new note, and before
the bad news came from Moscow the
“D.T.” discovered that “we can afford
to relax and to be a bit optimistic for a
change.” Gilbey’s pointed the moral
cleverly in a full-page anti-jitters adver-
tisement reproducing a forest of scare
headlines. Most of them were from the
“D.T.”
In one of those pallid articles which
are syndicated in Dominion newspapers,
although he never mentions the
Dominions, Eden describes the new
British foreign policy as “an effort to re-
create a system of collective security.”
Seeing that Scandinavia, Finland, the Low
Countries, Spain, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia,
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and the
South American republics, as well as
Japan and Italy, are out of it, even if
Russia comes i.n, it can’t possibly “re-
create” that. When Eden wrote there
was nothing more than a triple alliance
against a dual alliance, Britain, France
and Poland against Germany and Italy.
Savage to his people:
The Government knew that ultimately
it would be forced into difficulty as a
result of its policy of increasing purchasing
power by increasing wages.
Savage’s Government never let the elec-
tors know what it “knew” until it was
safe for another three years.
Since 1917 N.S.W. has had two Labor
parties, off and on, and generally out.
Before long it will have a third: Lang
Labor, Heffron Labor and Protestant
Labor. A southward extension of
Queensland’s Protestant Labor group is
a certain result of its strong polls in
by-elections. As a rule, Protestant
Laborism starts in N.S.W. and tries to
spread to other States. Hitherto it has
never succeeded in doing that, new has
it ever lasted long, but it embarrassed
the other Labor party or parties while it
did last.
On a pretty kettle of fish:
The troubles of Glebe (Sydney) council,
which has been running the affairs of the
municipality on a 40-hour-week basis, with
local trimmings, came to a head last week
when the 1939 aldermen were “removed” by
proclamation and an officer of the Local
Government Department placed in control
as administrator. Most of the aldermen
had already been “removed” from the
Heffron Labor party for deciding to get
streets cleaned and rubbish shifted for
about half of what it cost on the day-labor
plan, Heffron Labor being against the
contract system, though it has no linger-
ing prejudice in favor of municipal bank-
ruptcy.
The present administrator found that the
council had spent £lll5 on plumbing with a
man who owes it £354 for rates. Accountants
discovered that commissions were paid to
an engineer, “although his salary was in ex-
cess of the award rate.” The engineer
asserted that payment of commissions was
a regular thing, and that he had shared with
former aldermen —£135 out of £282 in 1928 ;
£125 out of “about” £325 in 1929; “about”
£3B 10s. out of £125 in 1936 (“about”
£3 10s., he alleged, being placed in an
envelope for each of 11 aldermen), and £l5O
out of £302 in 1937. He went on to allege
that Alderman Gorman, “who was waiting
in a hotel at Railway-square,” got “either
£lOO or £105” of the 1928 distribution, and
that the 1937 £l5O went to. the then mayor,
Dr. Foley—he “understood that Alderman
Foley intended to pay some of it to the
other aldermen.”
Gorman is Lang Labor M.L.A. for
Annandale, and Foley was a Heffron Labor
candidate for Glebe. Both have denied the
charges, and, according to Lang, the maker
of them disappeared, possibly disguised as
Woolcott-Forbes. But he assures the “D.T."
that he hasn’t disappeared.


POINTS OF VIEW.
“Fashion experts say that women’s dresses will be transparent next summer.”


GOING TO LONDON?
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
GLOUCESTER RD., LONDON, 5.W.7
This renowned London Family Hotel
offers everything the overseas visitor
requires. Close to Tube and Underground
stations, yet quiet and undisturbed by
traffic noise. Within ten minutes of
London’s famous West End and theatres,
and convenient for Earl’s Court, Olympia,
Kensington Gardens, Hyde Park and
the Museums and Institutes of South
Kensington. Inclusive terms or room with
breakfast only. All types of accommodation
from single rooms to suites, including
private bathrooms and sitting rooms.
Illustrated brochure free from
Bulletin, Sydney.
j
j
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
INTEREST RATES:
WHY THEY RISE AND FALL.
OUTLOOK FOR SECURITY PRICES
FINANCING THE DEFENCE PROGRAMME.
June Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Captain H. B. K. Oram, commander
of the Fifth Submarine Flotilla, one of
the four survivors of the wreck of the
submarine Thetis, is an old hand with
submarines. He was in Ll 2 when she
was damaged in a collision in 1929.
Twenty-one lives were lost on that occa-
sion. In the case of the Thetis the death-
roll is just one short of a hundred. Oram
escaped because he risked his life to
rise to the surface to call for help. At
the time he left there was every pros-
pect that the people left behind could
make a safe if slow escape by means of
the Davis apparatus. Three did so. What
happened after they left is a matter for
conjecture. The Thetis was on her trials
when she dived, struck bottom in 132 ft.
of water, and then remained helpless,
canted at an acute angle, her stern out
of water. Attempts at rescue were foiled
by action of tide and current. Fol-
lowing on the heels of the similar Squalus
disaster in the U.S.A., the tragedy em-
phasises that the best-thought-out pre-
cautions can’t prevent submarining being
a very risky business. Cammell, Laird
and Co., builders of the Thetis, are still
her owners, the ship not having been
taken over by the Admiralty, and 25 of
the firm’s men, together with other
civilian technicians, are among the vic-
tims.
Philip Crawshaw, in Australia as travel-
ling secretary of the Overseas League, was
born in Yorkshire, England, 27 years
ago and has since grown to a height
well over 72 inches. He’s one of twin
PHILH C'RAWSHAW.
brothers, and the other chap is even taller
than Philip. The Overseas League man
was educated at Repton College, and
was for a while a schoolmaster. He’s
fond of music, and plays golf.
It has been estimated by a very
cautious actuary well versed in the sales
records of gramophone disks that at
no time during the last 10 years has there
been a moment when
the voice of Peter Daw-
son singing “The Floral
Dance” has not been
heard somewhere on
the face of the globe.
However that may be,
the singer, whose
classic lineaments are
here quaintly inter-
preted by Frith, has,
though he isn’t yet 60,
been before the public
for decades and de-
cades, and his resonant
baritone has ploughed
tiny ridges in more
gramophone records
than any other singer
can put to his or her
credit. It’s no deroga-
tion of a mighty fine
voice to say that two-
thirds of Dawson’s suc-
cess is due to personal-
ity and hard work.
He’s an Australian, of
course, Adelaide-born,
and is revisiting his
native land to give
concerts and sing over
the broadcasting net-
work not for the
A.8.C., which seems to
prefer foreigners. Daw-
son did his bit in the
Great War with the
24th Brigade A.1.F., and besides that
did a tremendous lot of singing for
the benefit of Diggers. Next time
he returns to Sydney he says he’ll stay
there for good. A brother has a manu-
facturing business at Camperdown—he
makes tin cans —and thinks that Peter,
with his unrivalled experience of canned
balladry, would be a valuable partner.
One of the most versatile scientists in
Australia is knight George Julius, who
has just collected this year’s Kernot
Medal presented by Melbourne Uni. for
distinguished engineering research. The
courteous Kt. Bach, is chairman of the
C.S. and 1.R., chairman of the Standards
Association, president of the Aust. Nat.
Research Council and author of authori-
tative works on all sorts of topics,
from Australian hardwoods to economics.
But he is best known in the home
of the Melbourne Cup as the in-
ventor of the automatic tote. He
was born in Norwich (Eng.), and his
father became Bishop of Christchurch
and later Archbishop and Primate of
M.L. George Julius was educated at
Melbourne Grammar, N.Z. Uni. and
Sydney. He is 66.
Nearly four decades of students of
Dookie Agricultural College (Vic.) knew
A. C. Drevermann, who passed over in
Melbourne at 61 the other day. He was
one of the first students at the farmers'
university, was dux in 1892, science mas-
ter in 1900 and principal from 1927. He
was a sound agriculturist, and thousands
of young Vic. farmers owe their firm
grip of the soil to him, also the dozens
of Dookie graduates who occupy impor-
tant positions in other lands.
The Wellcome Gold Medal for
anthropological research goes to Dr.
Donald Ferguson Thomson, leading
authoritv on the abo. tribes of the North.
He’s 38,' Melbourne-borm and his degree
is D.Sc. (Melb.). He lived among the
Cape York abos. for several years, and
then repeated the experience with the
Arnhem Land natives. The Walter and
Eliza Hall Institute retains him as a
biologist to advise on snake problems,
and he’s a Research Fellow (in anthro-
pology) of Melb. Uni. The David Syme
Research Prize came his way three years
ago.
PETER DAWSON.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Lloyd Dumas, president of this year’s
Australian Newspaper Conference in
Brisbane, was born beside a type case —
his father founded the Mt. Barker (S.A.)
“Courier.” He was one of the youngest
Parliamentary Gallery men on record
(18), and, with Tom Dunbabin and a
couple of other choice spirits, was a
foundation member —there were 20
others —of the Press Poultry Club, limited
to scribes who had seen the Warwick
egg thrown. His tour as W. M. Hughes’s
publicity man in the second conscription
campaign gave him his real start in life.
W.M.H. took him to England. Dumas
returned to become “Argus” chief-of-
staff, editor of the “Sun News-Pictorial”
in Melbourne, editor of the Australian
Newspapers’ cable service and in 1929
managing editor and a director of Adel-
aide “Advertiser,” on which he had begun
his career 22 years before.
Judge Edmund Alfred Barton, of the
N. S. Wales District Court, whose
appointment as an acting-justice of the
Supreme Court has been recommended,
is a son of the Commonwealth’s first
Prime Minister. E. A. Barton was born
in Sydney 60 years ago, educated at The
King’s School, Parramatta, and at Ox-
ford, and was called to the N. S. Wales
Bar in 1906. He became a District Judge
in 1933. An enthusiastic golfer, often
on the Royal Sydney links.
Judge Herbert Raine Curlewis, of the
N. S. Wales District Court, due to retire
next month (he’ll be 70 in August), has
made his mark on the Bench as a stickler
for the correct use of English. But he
used to know the Australian vernacular
as well as anyone, as witness the verses
in slang he used to contribute to The
Bulletin. He married Ethel Turner, who
probably has more readers than any
other Australian author. They have a
pretty home at Mosman. ’Sonah’s hobby
is golf, and if he addresses the ball as
severely as he deals it out to impenitent
offenders his drives must be epoch-
making.
“Mort”: Alexander Slater, contractor
for S.A.’s newly-completed granite and
marble-fronted £250,000 Parliament
House, is a native of the Orkneys who
arrived in S. Aus. in 1912 with a wife,
three bairns, two strong arms and a good
knowledge of the building trade. He
got a job as builder’s foreman on many
Government contracts in Adelaide, and
after a few years launched out as a
mason sub-contractor on S.A.’s big hos-
pital projects in the city and outer
suburbs, eventually becoming a master
builder himself. When the depression came
he took up land in the State’s verdant
south-east, did well and sold out after
4} years for double the amount he put
into the property. He returned to con-
tracting again. His early Scottish train-
ing in stonework came in handy on the
Parliament House job, on which he set
every stone with his own hands.
Philip Sassoon, Bart., dead at 51, was
one of the last of the old guard to own
a house in Park-lane. Son of a financial
family whose ambit embraces every
centre of trade from Shanghai to the
Middle East, he owned the additional
advantage of having a Rothschild mother.
He was Douglas Haig’s private secretary
during the war, was later on Lloyd
George’s secretarial staff, and later still
went into politics. Bright, birdlike and
intellectually highly polished, the atmo-
sphere of politics did not suit him well.
For a time he was Under-Secretary for
Air, but his real interests were in art.
If there had been a Ministry for National
Galleries, he would have been an ideal
incumbent. Since 1937 he had been
Britain’s First Commissioner of Works,
a job which gave more play than the Air
Office to his artistic talent.
O. T. Lempriere, well known in tin-
mining circles for the last 40 years, and
latterly a figure on the Turf, was the
founder of the firm of O. T. Lempriere
and Co., of Melbourne, and established
O. T. LEMPRIERE.
tin-smelting works in Sydney in 1923.
His mining and metallurgical experience
has been gained in W.A., at Broken Hill,
and at Chillagoe and Herberton in
Queensland. Since 1908 he’s been a
Melbourne resident. He plays golf on
Royal Melbourne links, and is a mem-
ber of the V.R.C. and Moonee Valley
R.C.


To Ward Off a Cold
Wolfe’s Schnapp
hot with
lemon!
L
SFi
m
/
%s
/i
S£/
\
I
&
At the first sign of a cold or the ’flu, drink a glass
of Wolfe’s Schnapps hot with lemon before
going to bed it’s a pleasing, time-proven
remedy for winter ailments. Containing
medicinal properties not found in other spirits,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is unequalled as a health
drink and diuretic to tone and strengthen the
system.
Keep out Winter
Ills and Chills...
Drink
Wolfe’s Schnapps
WOLFE'S
<zi^omdllcSzkkdcinj
SCHNAPPS
As Good For Women As For Men
OLFE
=Eg»OPUCT OF HOLLAND. ==
1-1
. THIS a
ggSIATIC ALCOHOLIC I
BwwwiXaclored %Kdu*ively lnl
Bs®a«l not only- pure^roi]
quality .2 •••**.
<g=Ta> attention of AnMU«ai
w united to the
rv-- 1-itu-rf- j.,.l | 0 *hc Title or
ji-.'itmtie.Cot dial. cmboBw*l*f>S
b-J
t/f/l*
ntlini wdaud Uwinf r.n^
ET: 1 PUf I Ft. 02
obtainable in
Schn.JP* -° b si „ bott le 5
a, S .,t-W““ d A^ysk .ep.'x> ttle
it all hotels. Alway
: n the home.


ABORIGINALITIES
“ That'll stop your fidgeting !”
“Old-timer”: Having, by devious
means and the aid of a lucky ticket in a
“certain consultation” raised himself to a
position of affluence, Piangil Peter in-
vested in a comfortable little pubbery on
the back road from Balranald to Hay
(N.S.W.). Those were the days of the
horse, when travellers sought little but
tucker and drink and bunk. Came the
motor-car and a new kind of commercial
—one who demanded soap, hot water
and other services foreign to establish-
ments such as Pete’s. One such, having
placed a pair of dusty boots outside his
door and finding them still maculate in
the morning, descended on Pete. “Here,”
he roared, “didn’t anybody see these out-
side my door?” “Everybody in the pub
saw ’em,” answered Pete. “Then why the
—what the” howled the guest. “What
do you suppose I put them out for!”
“Well, I’m blanked if I know,” replied
la""™ 8 “
youd had * f *
“Cobbra”: I can’t tell “Mundowie”
where all the vast accumulation which
pours into Lake Eyre (B. 24/5/’39) goes
—that is if it is so vast by the time it gets
there —but I know where a lot of it dis-
appears to. The area of the lake at full
stretch is 3000 square miles, and it takes
a good deal of water to put even an inch
on to the surface of that and very little
summer evaporation to remove it. I sup-
pose there are few drier and hotter
regions in the world than the champion-
ship centres around the lake, and if there
is any atmosphere which absorbs mois-
ture more rapidly lead me to it. Kano-
wama, between the Barcoo and Inna-
rnincka and not far from where Burke and
Wills died, gets an average of just over
4in. of rain p.a., and you can count on
getting most of it in winter. Yet if you
drop in on the Tirari “desert,” where the
Diamantina runs through it on the north-
east in spring, you may find green sam-
phire for miles, and miles of waterholes
crowded with birds. Had one of the best
holidays of my life out that way.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: The only Australian warm-
blooded animal which really hibernates
through the winter is the dormouse-
opossum, one of the smallest of the
flying possums, and not much bigger
than a mouse. Through the summer it
is an active little sprite, scampering and
sailing through the branches of biggish
trees in search of honey and insects, or
bringing up its tiny youngsters in a neat
bark nest in a hollow bough. As autumn
draws on it steadily becomes stout and
sluggish, and its long and once-slender
tail develops into a thick, heavy tube
of fat-glands nearly as big as its whole
summer-model body. At the first smart
onset of winter it curls up in a trunk
hollow and, nourished by its store of
fat, sleeps until spring, to emerge once
more slim, active and graceful in another
summer transformation. With the de-
struction of the great southern forests it
has become rare, like many another
small, elusive inhabitant of the big trees.
* f: * *
“Jumbuck”: Rams when fighting often
cause injuries to one another) about the
heads, but I’d never heard or seen of a
ram outing another for keeps until the
other day, when with a “king” butt a
young ram caught an old fellow right
over the heart. Staggering a few yards
after receiving the unexpected blow, the
old ram collapsed, and within two
minutes he was crow-tucker. No post-
mortem was held, but we agreed the
wallop must have stopped his ticker.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: I agree with “F. Blue”
(B. 10/5/’39) re the general awfulness of
damper. Still, some sod-punchers are
worse than others. The old-timer who
instructed my youth told me always to
aim for a biscuit dough, and not a bread
paste. That’s where most sodmakers
crash—they get the dough too wet. A
stiff biscuit dough doesn’t take up too
much ash Then due care in selecting
a hearth getting a brisk fire going, and
later sweeping the hearth clean before
dumping the sod down. Also careful
selection of ash and embers to go on top.
Some hearty blokes don’t mind a half-
shovelful of sand. Ash isn’t so bad to
bite into—but sand! But, like frying-
pan work which invariably accompanies
damper-making, it all depends on the
man Some pan artists can guarantee
indigestion after every meal, while others
with just the same outfit and ingredients
can produce delicacies that leave not a
twinge of stomach revolt in their wake,
Still,° show me the padflogger who
wouldn’t swap a sod as big as a cartwheel
for just one loaf of baker’s bread.
I ** * *
“No 1 Bench” • My theory about the
formation of curly jarrah (B. 10/5/’39)
is cross-pollination. As timber-sorter to
a bie W A planing mill I could lay my
hand on at'least a dozen distinct varieties
of jarrah, ranging from the mellowness
of a hard cedar to the rough toughness
of a piece of bad karri. The latter variety
probably was the result of a cross be-
tween a jarrah and a karri flower. As
a bushman, I could point to a rather
rare variety of jarrah, quite worthless
commercially, which grows stuntediy on
almost barren sandpatches, sometimes
quite near to the most luxuriant growths,
Carrying a harsh splintery bark, this
variety is useless even as firewood, be-
cause of its intensely curly, almost un-
splittable, grain. But it flowers-and the
busy bee might easi y carry t s P°
a tree of the almost-cedar type ; result,
a cross with the modified characteristics
ot both a mel ow curliness of grain.
Against this is the theory of the W.A.
, . . ,
Forestry Department that curly jarrah
is simply a freak. But a freak is a freak
only so long as it remains a single in-
stance ; when it is multiplied ten thou-
sand times it becomes a, distinct vanety
-and to me such varieties are produced
by cross-pollmation just as a man will
ruin his crop of watermelons by permit-
ting pie- or p.g-melons to flower in the
vicinitv. *
“Edjudina”: If ever Australia acquires
a “Western” literature, what galaxies of
names writers of the day will have to
juggle with! Romance in every syllable
of them. Southern Cross, Coolgardie,
Boulder, Mt. Magnet, Queen of the West,
Day Dawn, Broad Arrow, Black Flag
and White Feather—just to name a few.
And the romance of origins! Southei n
Cross because the prospectors, travel-
ling well after nightfall were guided to
their camping-place (and gold) by the
stars which have become one of Aus-
tralia’s national emblems. Broad Arrow
—the prospector, to guide his mates to
the new find, marked the way with big
broad arrows drawn in the sand, and,
incidentally, guided others as well. White
Feather —before the place had a name a
dispute arose between two Irishmen, one
big and soft, the other small and fiery.
Dancing around the giant, the midget
challenged him to fight. But the big fellow
showed the white feather, funked it. And
personal names —Arizona Bill, famous in
the Old Camp ; Micky the Priest; Rus-
sian Jack ; German Charlie ; Pigweed
Harry ; Posthole Joe ; Whisky Bill; Peter
the Goat; Herring-gut Mick. How they
got their names and what they did would
fill many a book —and will when some
day Australians realise that Australia is
the land they live in and its stories are
just as fine as those of some distant
eldorado across the seas.
* * * *
“Fisner”: There seems to be something
about professional fishing that brings out
the worst in a man —possibly the cussed-
ness of fish. Recently I ran up the full
navigable length of a coastal river in a
launch on a working day, passing dozens
of prawners and fishermen with nets out.
Not one attempted to pass the time of
day, as drovers or timbermen would,
beyond two snarls from incompetents
who hauled their corks under water with
the apparent intention of defeating my
best efforts to keep my propeller-blades
out of their mesh, a matter of mutual
advantage. Only contrast came from a
pair of full-blooded abos., hauling hard.
They stopped work long enough to flour-
ish their hats in a greeting, and cheerily
yelled “Nice day” from five chains up
a bay. What is it —the city touch
spreading?
% ♦
“E.S.S.” : Wirewhiskers was looking at
a wedge-tailed eagle that was perched on
a stump a short distance away. “Tell
you what happened to me one day,” he
said. “I’d skinned a rabbit down on the
Warri Warri an’ put it on a bark plate,
dinnerware de luxe bein’ scarce while I
was swaggin’ it. Me only blanket was
spread on the grass close by, and I set
the plate on it so that the ants wouldn’t
get at it while I went for a billy of water.
When I gets about half-way back I sees
a wedge-tailed eagle flyin’ off with the
blanket—an’ he got away over the tree-
tops in a great hurry. He’d dropped
down to inspect the rabbit, an’ his long
talons had got stuck in the blanket, an’
he couldn’t get ’em out. In his twistin’
about he’d wrapped up the meat, and all
he’d left me was the bark.”
$ . * * *
“Norther”: Add to the list of unusual
bush, deaths that of Alf Collier, a
pensioner who fell asleep on the bank of
Goonoo Goonoo Creek, near Tamworth
(N.S.W.), rolled into the water and
drowned because his arms plunged into
thick mud and he was unable to free
them.
Up ijc ]p
“Skull Creek”: Strange how bushmen
still wear the oilskin coat —surely one
of the most uncomfortable
garments ever designed. In
wet weather, if the unfor-
tunate wearer is afoot, he
soon finds that his trouser
bottoms are soaked and his
boots full of water from the
steady stream running down
his coat, and if he wears
leggings the oilskin clings to
them with such fiendish
tenacity that walking be-
comes an effort. On horse-
back, the thing is just as
objectionable the rain
seems always to find some
inlet, and if you chance to be
on a lively nag the coat skirts
manage to work loose and
flap alarmingly at the wrong
moment. I’ve yet to see the
oilskin-wearer who can get
through a wire fence without at least one
minor tear, while in most cases the buttons
pull out after a few months’ use, taking
portions of the garment with them, and
it’s almost impossible to replace them
properly. As for working in it, any
exertion makes the oilskin the next-best
thing to a Turkish bath for inducing per-
spiration and general clamminess that
I knoW of. The old tweed overcoat,
even if it is tied up with binder-twine
and an odd nail or two, is more service-
able than any oiler —fancy fixings
thrown in.
“Trevdee”: It’s not only in the out-
back that long and tiring journeys are
looked upon as an any-old-day
occurrence. In Dandenong (Vic.) lives
a workman who toils in the Newport
railway workshops. This is 25 miles
from his home. Every working day in
every year, for several years past, he has
ridden his bike to and from work ; and
that work —boilermaking—is arduous.
Yet the daily 50-mile bike-ride has
apparently had no other effect than to
make him one of the healthiest men in
the shop.
THE COACH-DRIVERS.
“A pilgrimage has lately been arranged to the
grave of ‘Cabbage Tree’ Ned Devine, one of the
last and best of Cobb and C'o.’s old coach-drivers.”
—News item.
As every day to the dawn was true,
So the drivers carried the coaches through
Like birds to their homeland coming—
Back to the West, to a world awake
To the first faint echo of whip and brake
And the thrill of the hard hooves drumming.
And there at a distant loose-latched gate
The lone selector thanked his fate,
When a resting coach had found him,
For the fellowmen and the well-filled pipe,
The rum’s warm glow and the hour grown
ripe,
And the strangers’ talk around him —
The talk of towns, or a hero’s tale
Of the lonely ways, and the lights that fail
On the long way’s darkest quarter,
Where men and beast may be sorely pressed
With the long fear’s load on the mind obsessed,
The fear of the dried-up water.
There was talk of flood, or the fear that sprang
Like a frightened bird when the “Hold-up”
rang—
The “halt” at forty paces
When, “hell for leather” or lose the lot,
The whip cracks echoed the pistol shot.
And the horses leapt to the traces.
So, whether you come from the open plain
Or the roaring square and the crowded lane,
Remember the driver’s daring;
And give him an epitaph—just a. line —
“May the springs ride easy for you, Devine,
On the lonely road you’re faring.”
QUEENSLAND.
E. R. MURRAY.


“Ellenvale”: As Old Bill dumped his
swag I noticed he was rather distrait,
but it wasn’t until he had half-emptied
my tobacco pouch that he unburdened
himself. “Thought I’d struck a decent
track-mate at last,” he said sorrow-
fully. “I picked up with a young bloke
back on the border, and I reckoned he
was the best I ever travelled with. Real
good in camp, an’, although he always
kicked agen bitin’ cockies for scran, as
soon as we came to a town he’d go off
an’ come back with a full tucker-bag in
no time. Crikey, we lived well. I
thought he was a fair dinkum mate, but
I found him out in the end —the no-
good cow.” Bill sighed and fell into a
mournful reverie.. “Well,” I asked,
“what did he do —take you down for
something?” The old chap shook his
head. “Worse’n that,” he told me. “I
follered him into a township one day to
do some bottin’ on me own account, an’
I found the swine buyin’ tucker at the
store —actually buyin’ it, mind yer.
Seems he’d been holdin’ and doin’ the
same thing all along—fifteen quid he’d
wasted on tucker, an’ us passin’
dozens of pubs. Me feelin’s was too
hurt to even tell him what I thought of
him. I jist waited till he was asleep that
night, took the rest of his cash an’ left
the deceivin’ swine. It taught me a
lesson, anyways; you can’t trust no one
these days.”
“Atrax”: It isn’t only humans who
get conscripted for military service.
General Franco has been raising a bat-
talion of cats to clean up the myriad
rats and mice bred during the siege
years in Madrid. In the Flanders
trenches many thousands of British cats
did their bit nobly, not only by dealing
it out to the rats but, on occasion, using
their keen scent and general alertness to
notable military advantage as gas-
alarms. They served in the Navy, too,
both ashore and afloat in everything from
submarines to storehouses. The Air
Force had its cat-detail also, officially
only on the ground, although several
bright young birds tried taking a black
cat aloft on the quiet as a mascot. Hun-
dreds of cats are still on the strength in
all three services at the expense of the
British taxpayer, and thousands more
would be added in the event of war.
“Bull-ant Bill”: I took a load of fire-
wood and a trifle of o.p. along to Old
Joe, now that the evenings are getting
cold. “Ever tell y’ ’bout Stringy Skinner
an’ the Noo South bloke an’ the splittin’-
an’-loadin’ bet they ’ad?” he asked after
sampling. “Y’see, Stringy wus a bloke as
used ’is block, an’ the Noo South bloke
wus allers lookin’ fer a mug ter take
down. The bloke starts skitin’ at the
pub as ’ow ’e’d load wood on a dray
faster than wot any cove could split it
outa sawed blocks. Stringy takes ’im
on fer a fiver, an’ next day we all rolls
up ter see the match. Conditions wus
that every bit uv split stuff ’ad ter be
loaded. Stringy starts, an’ the bloke fair
whips it inter ther dray, but while ’e’s
pickin’ up the second lot Stringy picks up
*a couple too an’ slings ’em a ’undred
yards orf. * ’Ere,’ ses the bloke, ‘wot-
yer gettin’ at?’ Stringy ses, ‘Every bit
inter the dray, mate,’ an’ ’eaves another
lump on the pub roof. Bloke near run
’imself ter death ’fore ’e give in, an’
Stringy’s sittin’ on the wood’eap ’avin’ a
smoke by then.”
# * *
“N7Y”: One of the best working
boys I ever had was Jack Wilde. The
“As you may see , madam, the springs are perfect .”
harder Jack worked the faster he talked.
He and 1 were pulling down the headgear
of an old mill on a 15ft. tower. Luckily
it was only 15ft. Jack was going like
blazes as usual with hands, feet and
mouth when someone below pulled the
wrong rope at an inappropriate moment,
sweeping us both off the platform. As
if we’d been fired by the same shot from
double barrels, we kept together in the
air. When we were some feet from the
ground, facing each other, a few inches
apart, falling parallel, Jack looked at me
and grinned. “Fine pair of smart young
fellers, ain’t we?” he asked. For a mid-
air conversation I reckon that took beat-
ing. No, I hadn’t thought of a gem of
repartee before we hit the ground, feet
first and only shaken.
*■ * * *
“Bishti”: Jaybee was one of the most
powerful oarsmen I have seen ; a 20-mile
row with three or four on board was
nothing to him. Camped one night at
the mouth of the Glenelg (Vic.) we de-
cided to shift some gear across the river
for an early start next morning. Six-
teen stone and as strong as a bullock,
Jaybee scarcely made that boat move.
Getting across at last, we dumped the
gear and turned for home. I took the
oars, with injunctions from the others to
“keep her nose upstream or we’ll be out
to sea. There’s a helluva of a runout!”
I threw my 13-stone into the job, but
she wouldn’t move. It was then that we
found that the anchor was out.
“Cooee”: Looking through the sheep
trucks one night with the aid of a torch
for “sheep down,” discovered a grizzled
old-timer rattler-jumper in the middle
of a top pen. As my light flashed on
him he solemnly closed one eye and
“baa-a-a’d” most unrealistically. I told
the guard to “let her go.”
* * * *
“Ex-Alexis”: “Nor’-west’s” par. (B.
29/3/’39) contains a rather sweeping
statement about lost value of the cowrie
shell to the “sophisticated South Sea
Islander.” On the beaches, yes, the
cowrie shell is just a shell to the natives,
but inland, especially in the mountains,
the shell is still valuable and is the ordi-
nary currency. I have just returned from
15 months’ mission service in the Madang
district (N.G.), and can vouch for the
value the inland natives place on the cow-
rie shell. In the Bismarck Mountains it is
the only currency. Would “Nor’-west”
be surprised to know that four small
cowrie shells will buy a bag of potatoes?
“I used t ’ drink an swear an beat my wife, but neow, Loard, tez the
other Way ’bout
The native women delight in adorning
themselves with this shell money, and
one’s wealth and standing in the tribe are
judged from the amount of cowrie shells
one can exhibit. Further inland, in the
Mt. Hagen area, the mother-o’-pearl and
the gold-lip shell are greatly prized. Quite
recently on the Taylor Expedition, away
beyond Mt. Hagen, the Catholic Mission
at Alexishafen came to the rescue of this
party by sending them out a large con-
signment of the Girri-Girri shell by
’plane. The Tambu shell (small variety)
is also highly prized, and is hung in fes-
toons from small sticks inserted into the
sides of the nostrils.
“Nakh”: A fresh victim of the January
bushfires in Victoria has been found near
the Toorongo Forest, north of Noojee.
It is the tallest known hardwood tree in
the world, a mountain ash which was
uprooted apparently in Black Friday’s
gale. The tallest standing tree in the
world is a Californian redwood, 364 ft.
high. The fallen Gippsland giant was a
mere 331 ft. If it stood in the heart of
Melbourne there is only one thing that
could look down on it—the main spire,
just completed, of St. Patrick’s Cathedral.
It is 9ft. higher. There was 23,000 super,
feet of millable timber in the colossus,
which, as it had fallen across a forest
track, had to be sawn through.
V * * *
“E. & O.”: Bill Hitchcock used to be
a familiar figure in the Gundagai
(N.S.W.) saleyards, where he, bought
sheep; not ordinary ones, but sheep of
character. If a ram charged the auc-
tioneer Bill bought it; he bought every
ewe that put the dogs out of the yards.
And an extraordinarily virile flock he
built up, which was still thriving when
the neighbors were picking up the dead
wool. Bill claimed that his mob even
chewed down trees to get at edible leaves ;
certainly the mutton tasted strongly of
eucalyptus. He used Alsatian dogs to
work them, and at lamb-marking the
catchers had to be protected from the in-
furiated ewes by a man with a heavy
pole. They got wilder each year, till in
the shearing-shed it took two rouseabouts
to overcome and subdue each sheep, and
still there was always a danger of the
shearers being bitten. Even the Alsatians
couldn't handle them, so Bill developed
an Alsatian-Russian wolfhound cross —
big fierce brutes that scared the life out
of anyone who happened to call at his
place. There are two theories about Bill’s
end. Some say that the sheep started on
the rabbits, even digging them out of the
burrows, and that once they got the taste
of blood nothing could stop them. Others
say it was his dogs. Anyhow, all that
remains of Bill is the mystery and his
rubber boots.
* * *
“Matje”: “One-trip Cassidy” is re-
garded with reverence by every frying-
pan toter north of 28. His technique is
inimitable, his cuisine invariable and his
time irreducible. Two logs placed end
to end and edged together maintain eter-
nal fire. Everything is willin’d up the
night before—the billy on the fire,
bread cut, eggs and bacon in the pan
and the tools at the stand-to. We start
at seven —the alarm goes at half-past six.
Cassidy steps into his pants and boots,
grabs the lot, and the next study of him
is squatting at the fire.
“Red Jacket”: But can a properly-
constructed compass be influenced by local
magnetic masses such as a large spanner
(B. 3/5/’39)? When I was taught the
principles of electricity and magnetism
I learned that a marine compass should
be encircled with a wide band of brass,
which serves to in-
sulate all local influ-
ences while still
leaving the magnet-
ised needle open to
the peculiar mag-
netic influences of
the earth. In the
’nineties a steamer
crashed on a South
Westralian reef. The
skipper’s theory,
accepted by the
Marine Board, was
that a large boiler
carried as deck
cargo had caused
such a diversion of
the compass as to
lead him too far
north. But since
then hundreds of
voyages have been
made across the
Bight with boilers as
deck cargo and
without -any serious diverting of the com-
pass. The compass-needle acts perfectly
even on such masses of iron as H.M.S.
Nelson and the Queen Mary.
EXIT JOE.
When Joe McGuffy went to Osodull he
Took up a small selection; hill and plain
Were dotted thick with trees, as was the gully
Which formed the boundary of his domain.
To get the land prepared for cultivation
He started in the scrub to fell and burn
Around the homestead; then the extirpation
Of stumps was Joe’s immediate concern.
The ease with which a tree’s life he could settle
Whene’er an axe’s handle graced his paw
Quite fascinated Joe; and, in high fettle,
He started “ringing” every tree he saw.
Sardonic neighbors asked — you know those
neighbors —
When he was going to “ring” the baby’s cot.
Unshaken, he proceeded with his labors,
Saying he knoo —none better —wot was wot.
One day, months later, down the gully loping,
His trusty axe held tightly in his fist,
Joe went with eager footsteps, blithely hoping
To find a sapling that he might have missed.
But no such likely victim there he spotted;
And, as he turned and sadly made for home,
A tree, its roots white-anted and rain-rotted,
Heeled over, donging Joseph on the dome.
No breeze that rustled verdant branches
gently
Made requiem; no leaves were left to sigh
Or swear. Old Joe was “stonkered accident’ly”
They said. It set me wondering; and I
In fancy heard those trees, stark, stripped of
clobber,
Chuckle, a little drily, at the joke,
Nodding approval at their fallen cobber
And softly murmuring, “Good on you,
bloke! ”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Farramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available,
v intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS,
lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.). Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
Insure with ttie
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1572.
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE: OF
INTEREST
II not you owe it to yourself and
-'family to enquire about
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees , Union
Insurance Society of Canton ltd.
Write lor a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends v
Pref. To Re- Re -
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
1929.. 76,272 16,374 10 p.c. = 50,000 9,898 288.525
Reserve adjustment, £7500 .. .. 281,025
1930.. 61,359 16,374 8 p.c. = 40,000 4,985 286,010
Reserve adjustment, £25,500.. .. 260,510
Loss.
1931.. 20,806 16,374 Nil 223,330
Reserve adjustment, £4500 .. .. 218,830
1932.. 37.652 Nil Nil 181,178
Capital assets reserve, £16,800 .. 197,978
1933.. 19,391 Nil Nil 178,587
Feb.,
Capital assets reserve, £10.868 . . 189,455
1934.. 7,390 Nil Nil 188.065
Unexplained reductions, £2885 . . 179,180
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £1792 . . 177,38 S
Profit. 54 p.c.
1935.. 2,642 15,123 Nil 164,907
To Staff vVelfale Reserve, £lOl7 . . 163,890
5 p.e.
1936.. 54.341 54,011* 5 p.c. = 27,018 137,202
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £385 . . 136,817
Added Tax Reserve, £2OOO . . . . 138,817
6 p.c.
1937.. 60,025 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,229 150,046
Profit sale property, £827 .. .. 150,873
Written off Target Woollen Mills
account, £16,734 134,139
1938.. 61,564 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 12,768 146,907
1939.. 62,005 16,374 6 „ „ 32,422 13,209 160,116
* Includes £40,367 of arrears paid by issue of ord.
scrip.
For Sydney retailers the tide of pros-
perity has been on the flood since the
third quarter of 1933. The following
table, compiled by the N. S. Wales Retail
Traders’ Association Research Bureau,
shows the percentage change in the value
of retail sales compared with the previous
year and the corresponding portions
thereof:
Average of three months ended
f A -5 Av. 12
Period. Sept. Dec. March. June. mths.
1933- . . —l.B +3.3 +3.3 +7.7 +3.2
1934- . . +9.8 +6.3 +3.2 +7.1 +6.6
1935- .. +5.0 +8.3- +7.6 +6.5 +6.9
1936- . . +6.5 +4.6 +4;5 +5./ +5.3
1937- . . +B.l +11.7 +6.3 +6.7 +8.3
1938- . . +4.7 +2.3 -
The rate of growth reached its peak dur-
ing the last quarter of 1937, since when
the expansion has been steadily losing
momentum, though it picked up a bit
again since the close of 1938.
The effects of last year’s dry spell in
the country and of the drop in export
income, owing to lower wool and wheat
prices, was more than offset by the lift in
wages, which increased the spending
power of many shoppers. But the wage-
lift also increased traders’ outgoings.
Thus all but £441 of the gain in Foy’s
gross earnings (£379,539, up £18,972) was
offset by an increase in exes. (£317,534,
up £18,531), which include an unspecified
provision (up £3482) for taxation and
£15,373 (up £1878) for depreciation. The
£62,005 of profit that remained was
enough to pay the prefs. their full con-
tract rate of 6 p.c. and show 8.4 p.c.
on ord. capital, as against 8.1 p.c. and
8 p.c. for the two preceding terms. The
div. was kept at 6 p.c., and £13,209 was
visibly put on the shelf, making the lay-
by £160,116.
For the half-dozen years to the close
of accounts in 1928 the ords. got a steady
15 p.c. Then the co. ran into a crop of
troubles, beginning with reconstruction
of the main premises, followed by slump,
difficulty with stocks and aggressive com-
petition, partly from chain stores which
have set up near by. Losses aggregating
£85,239 were recorded for the four years
to the close of accounts in 1934. Further
adjustment of stock values spoiled results
in the following term, but the prefs. got
into the picture again (after a three years’
wait) with 5| p.c. . In the next term-
arrears of pref. divs. were wiped out (by
issue of 40,367 f.-p. ords.) and an all-
round 5 p.c. was paid, followed by 6 p.c.
for each of the last three years.
It is doubtful whether any very marked
improvement in net earnings need be
looked for for a while. Rains at the
close of accounts brightened the seasonal
outlook, and expenditure on defence
should mean that there will be a bit more
money about, but costs are still climbing,
taxation is on the up-grade, and so are
interest rates.
At 20s. 6d. the prefs. yield 5.8 p.c.
Their div. was 3| times covered by last
year’s net earnings, and they are backed
by £3 11s. Id. in net tangibles. At
17s. 9d. (235. 3d. a year ago) the ords.
return 6.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div. basis. The
backing is 255. lid. in net tangibles.
Balance-sheet movements are encour-
aging—they suggest preparation for much
keener trading:
1932. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £772,902 £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Liabilities . . 390,054 337,823 388,977 333,341
Property . . 731,386 723,352 726,484 727,285
Plant, etc. . . 163,320 145,427 137,894 129,739
Stocks . . 399.943 362,370 414,243 348,266
Book debts . . 30,716 79.961 79,813 93,061
Cash, etc. .. 12,769 11,024 15,116 32,772
To lop £55,636 off the outside debt and
add £13,248 to debtors’ balances and
£17,656 to cash, etc., stocks were reduced
by £65,977, and £8155 more was written
off than was spent on plant. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£140,758) was £20,563.
Fairymead Sugar Co. (Q.)
To Re— Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1928 . . 39,225 8 p.c. = 21,200 18,025 167,820
1929 . . 39,142 8 „ „ 21,200 17,942 185,762
1930 .. 45,445 8 „ „ 21,200 24,245 210,007
1931 . . 48,469 8 „ „ 21,200 27,269 237,276
1932 . . 30,344 8 „ „ 21,200 9,144 246,420
1933 .. 45,807 10 „ „ 26,500 19,307 265,727
1934 . . 35,921 10 „ „ 26,500 9,421 275,148
Drop in replacement reserve, £16,245.. 258,903
1935 . . 29,857 10 p.c. = 26,500 3,357 262,260
' From inner reserves, £40,500 .. ,302,760
Reserves capitalised, £132,500 . . 170,260
1936 .. 42,079 8 p.c. = 39,400 2,679 172,939
Insurance reserve, £913 . . . . 173,852
Added replacement reserve, £11,897.. 185,749
1937 . . 47,185 9 p.c. = 44,325 2,860 188,609
Added replacement reserve. £12,582.. 201,191
1938 .. 49,812 10 p.c. = 49,250 562 201,753
Partly because Germany hasn’t re-
leased Czechoslovakia’s international
quota of sugar since it recently seized
that country the price of raws in Lon-
don (f.o.b. Continental ports) moved up
a couple of pounds per ton, reaching
over £8 Bs. about a month ago ; the
figure had fallen to £7 12s. last week.
Also, the International Sugar Council,
which had lowered Australia’s export
quota from 400,000 tons to 396,000 tons,
has lifted the figure to 408,000 tons for
the current season, and hopes are that
a further increase will be granted later
in the year. All this has rendered the
question of overproduction and its re-
lated problem of mill quota, etc., in Aus-
tralia less acute —for the present, at any
rate —and, since over half the Aus-
tralian output of raws is exported and
sold at world prices as against a fixed
£24 per ton for home consumption, a
lift in world prices means a better
average return on the whole Australian
crop. So investors have lengthened
their bids for sugar scrip.
The f.-p. pound shares of this Bunda-
berg grower and miller —it is also
interested in copra, having absorbed the
Malayta Co., operating in the British
Solomons —now fetch 365. in the market
as against 30s. a few months ago. The
return at 365. is 5.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis—the div. was 1 p.c. more than for
the previous year, and that helped to
lift the price, too. The backing is 28s. 9d.
in net tangibles.
Returns from copra and sugar are not
separated in the published accounts ; but
the spring (£2627) in last year’s net earn-
ings appears to have come from a bigger
outturn of sugar (the co. doesn’t broad-
cast its production), following good
seasonal conditions. But most of what
the co. gained on the swings it seems
to have lost on the roundabouts. There
was a substantial drop in the price of
copra, and the return from No. 1 pool
sugar is expected to be 13s. lighter at
£l6 18s. per ton, while the average re-
turn from exports, including British
preference and exchange, will be about
£7 2s. per ton, down 6s. 6d. The £49,812
of profit claimed was 10 p.c. on capital
as against 9.5 p.c. and 8.5 p.c. for the
two preceding terms. That was after
sending £12,583 (up £685) net to the
replacement reserve, making it
This heap was raided for part of the
£132,500 of bonus scrip scattered (one
for two) about three years ago- This
bonus issue makes 10 p.c. worth 13.6 p.c.
on old holdings.
As for the current term, another good
crushing is in prospect, and the mill s
peak tonnage is to be increased a trifle
production in excess of the peak figure
is paid for at export, not home-con-
sumption, price. Much will depend upon
the course of prices in the world market
for sugar. In this respect forward trans-
actions suggest that the recent rise may
not be sustained very long. The trend
of copra prices has been upward since
the close of accounts. At the moment
appearances are that the co. will be able
to maintain the 10 p.c. div.
Balance-sheet movements suggest that
the management is keeping abreast of
modern developments in equipment, etc.,
and that ought to mean much so far as
costs, and therefore profits, are con-
cerned :
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £265,000 £265,000 £492,500 £492,500
Liabilities* . . 28,640 59,034 57,579 84,484
Estates . . 226,908 224,014 318,279 330,681
Factories, etc. 102,111 180,6681
Railways, etc. 54,993 55,832 J-334,876 360,124
Plant, etc. . . 43,355 55,214 J
S'tocks, etc. . . 17,814 7,045 22,183 45,648
Book debts .. 1 10 f . rR j 73,251 71,464 85,066
Cash, etc. .. f 19 ’ 606 1 16,769 11,585 6,408
* Including something for taxation.
During the year £12,402 was added
to the book value of estates, £25,248 to
plant, etc., £23,465 to stocks and £13,602
to debtors’ balances, while £20,905 was
added to the amount coming to out-
siders. Still, including stocks, the im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£52,698) was £5045, despite the
net outlay (£37,650) on fixed assets.
Bon Marche, Ltd. (Sydney)
, -Dividends N Towards
Net Pref. Re- Be—
Jan., Profit. 7J p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Assets written up. £25,000 . . . . 17,047
1928.. 22,352 6540 8 p.c. = 8000 7,812 24.859
1929.. 15,650 7500 8 „ „ 8000 150 25,009
1930.. 11,140 7500 6 „ ~ 6000 22,649
Loss.
1931.. 9,858 3750* Nil 9.041
1932.. 7,913 Nil Nil 1,128
Deficit.
Written off investments, £2625 .. 1,497
1933.. 17,875 Nil Nil _ 19,372
Insurance reserve (£5000) taken in .. 14,372
1934.. 7,353 Nil Nil 21,725
1935.. 1,573 Nil Nil 23,298
Profit.
1936.. 8,335 Nil Nil 8,335 14,963
1937.. 8,766 7500 Nil 1,266 13,697
1938.. 8,840 6,094 Nil 2,746 10,951
1939.. 10,362 5,812 Nil 4.550 6,401
* Half-year’s div. to August, 1930.
This co., which runs a department store
on a t.p. basis, is an offshoot of Marcus
Clark and Co., in Railway-square, a few
hundred yards down the street. The
£200,000 of capital is one-half prefs. and
the other half ords. The parent owns
the ords., which are not listed, direct
public interest being confined to the prefs.
They carry a cumulative 1\ p.c., reduced
to 5.8 p.c. under the N. S. Wales Interest
Reduction Act, with the right to advance
with the ords. beyond the reduced to
the original contract rate.
Difficult to say when the prefs.’ par-
ticipating rights are likely to be worth
anything. Although profits have showed
up for each of the last four years, and
payment of the prefs.’ annual require-
ments was resumed in April, 1937, there
was still nearly £32,000 (5| years) arrears
of divs. coming to them, while £6401
of capital was unrepresented by tangibles
—goodwill figures at £60,000 —when the
books closed. So far, the board has given
no hint as to what it proposes to do
about these arrears. During the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, there was
a steady increase in sales, and, despite
higher wage and tax bills, net earnings
sprang £1522, reaching £10,362, or £4550
more than the minimum pref. div. called
for.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures show it:
1930. 1934. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities . . 82,098 95,399 128,407 127,066
Freheabls and
leaseholds . . 124,205 122,762 121.989 121,527
Plant, etc. . . 18,144 15,332 13,649 13,024
Stock . . . . 40,856 26,360 22,154 24,886
Book debts . . 126,350 108,735 164,958 166,037
Investments,
cash, etc. . . 9,943 484 800 1,003
Including stocks (up £2732), the improve-
ment in the year’s more or less liquid
surplus (£64,860) was £5355. The
features which catch the eye are debtors’
balances (up £1079) and the amount com-
ing to outsiders (down £1341). Obviously
much depends upon the soundness of
debtors’ balances, and that in turn de-
pends partly upon the general level of
prosperity and employment.
As for the current term, costs, includ-
ing taxation, are still on the up-grade.
But the seasonal outlook is satisfactory,
and the scattering of loan moneys in
defence and other public works should
help. The co. reports sales for the
first quarter in excess of those for the
corresponding period of the preceding
term.
After sales at 12s. 6d. (13s. a year ago),
sellers ask 14s. for the pound shares,
without buyers declaring. The return
at 12s. 6d. is 9.1 p.c. on a 5.8 p.c. div.
basis. The cover is 38s. Bd. in net tan-
gibles
Illawzirra Steam (N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Reserves taken in, £12,500 .. • • 15,198
1929 .. 23.561 8 p.c. = 8,000 15,561 30,759
1930 . . 18,875 9 „ „ 9,000 9,875 40,634
1931 .. 10,099 10 „ „ 10,000 99 40,733
1932 .. 8,058 8 „ „ 8,000 58 40,791
1933 . . 8,050 8 „ „ 8,000 50 40,841
1934 . . 8,253 8 ,-, „ 8,000 _ 253 41,094
Unexplained additions reserves, £3500.. 44,594
1935 .. 8,480 8 p.c. = 8,000 480 45,074
Unexpiained additions reserves, £3401.. 48,474
1936 . . 8,346 8 p.c. = 8,000 346 48,820
Tax and bad debts reserves written
back, £2500 51,320
1937 .. 11,871 8 p.c. = 8.000 3,871 55,191
insurance adjustment, £2llB . . . . 57,309
1938 . . 14,581 9 p.c. = 9,000 5,581 62,890
1939 10,905 9 ~ „ 9,000 1,905 64,795
The position is more comfortable than
a summary of p. and 1. figures alone sug-
gests, and its attractiveness continues to
grow. Consider these figures:
1929. 1934. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital . . £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £ 100,0t)0 £lOO,OOO
Liabilities . . 8,052 11,413 8,034 7,740
Ship property 44,993 48,980 31,130 28,000
Freeholds and
leaseholds 2,095 2,595 2,475 2,4^5
Plant, stocks,
etc. .. 2.315 1,674 1,423 1,8(4
Book debts . . 13,519 8,704 15,836 13,818
Public securi-
ties, cash, etc. 79,889 94,554 125,559 130,868
When the books closed the £lOO,OOO of
share capital (it includes £25,000 of bonus
scrip, issued in 1920) and £30,868 besides
were represented outside the business in
Consols (£103,259, up £3030) and cash
(£27,609, up £2279). Book debts alone
(down £1518) nearly twice covered the
amount coming to sundry creditors. The
more or less liquid surplus (£136,946, up
£4085) was equal to 275. 4d. per share,
the improvement amounting to 10s. 4d.
over the last decade. On ship property
£3130 more was written off than was
spent during the year, and the book value
of the fleet (five ships, aggregating 2329
tons) is not much more than £ll per
ton, a very conservative figure.
What shareholders would like to know
is how the board ultimately proposes to
deal with excess accumulations for which
it can find no employment in the busi-
ness. Appearances are that it could
return about half the capital without seri-
ously affecting earnings, or without ham-
stringing the co.
Apart from competition from road
transport, the co.’s ships, reported in good


1888—1939
j
THIS COMPANY
OFFERS
FIFTY YEARS’
EXPERIENCE
PLUS
SPECIALISED
ORGANISATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward F. Mitchell, K.C.M.G.,
K.C., Chairman.
Sir Stephen Morell, K. 8., Vice-
Chairman.
Sir Alan Currie, K. 8., M.L.C.
E. F. Herring, Esq., K.C.
Allan Spowers, Esq.
F. R. WOOD, Manager.
ROBERT MONEY, Asst. Manager.
The EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY
472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
!
z%v
sgsaaagjiggs:
H
km
mmmsm
flPfepfo
k : s t c~- J*£g
LOAN FOR
PUBLIC WORKS
The sound development of Australia is of primary
importance, and it is of particular importance that
such public works as will further this aim should be
proceeded with.
To this end the Commonwealth and States are
asking for £4,750,000 to cover urgent needs.
While the appeal by the Australian Loan Council
has a national significance, the issue is one that
commends itself as a sound and profitable invest-
ment for the individual as much as for the
Institution.
The return is good and the security for the invest-
ment is Australia itself.
The Loan is issued at £99 per £lOO of investment,
a discount of £1 per cent, over the whole term.
As the interest rate is 3f% the average annual
yield will be £3/19/2 per cent, per annum.
COMMONWEALTH
Make your
investment
now.
LOAN
Closes
not later than
14th June.
Apply to any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order
Post Office or Stockbroker.
ROBERT G. MENZIES,
Treasurer.
order and covered by insurance have a
monopoly of the carrying trade between
Nowra, where the railway ends, and t e
Vic border and Sydney. The apparent
riron of £3676 in last year’s profit was
due P partly to inclusion of £2llB (it arose
out of a change of due date in insurance
premiums) non-recurring profit in the
1938 figure, and partly to a dry spell,
which diminished cargoes offering, and
to higher wages, coal costs, etc. Still,
there was enough to show 10.9 p.c. on
capital as against 14.5, 11.8, 8.3, 8.4, 8.2,
8 and 8 p.c. back to 1932. The div. was
kept at 9 p.c., and, unless something un-
expected happens, it looks like remaining
t h cre _for the present, at any rate.
The market, which has a keen eye for
sound securities these days, prices the
pound shares at 445. 3d. (40s. a year ago),
or 1 Is 4d. more than the book value of
the net tangible backing. The return at
445. 3d. is 4 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis,
with possibilities.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
f Dividends ,
Pref. Writ-
Dee., Loss. 7 p.c. Ordinary, ten Off. Deficit.
19°8 79,628 Nil Nil 33,155 382,773
1929’.’. 47,943 Nil Nil 29,869 460,585
Profit.
1930.. 13,782 Nil Nil 28,716 475,519
Loss.
1931.. 24,566 Nil Nil 24,915 525,000
Capital written off, £525,000 ..
1932.. 14,839 Nil Nil 14,191 29,030
Profit.
1933.. 15.672 Nil Nil 15,317 28,675
1934.. 12.573 Nil Nil 12,025 27,827
Loss.
1935.. 16,603 Nil Nil 16,610 61,040
Profit.
1936.. 1,316 Nil Nil 10,353 70,077
1937.. 42,632 Nil Nil 10,468 37,913
1938.. 10,249 15,000 Nil 10,147 52,811
The run-owner in the far west of
Queensland gambles largely with Nature ;
and the odds have been heavily against
this one, which holds seven leaseholds,
aggregating 10,968 square miles, mostly
down the Cooper, and three freeholds—
Milton (15,129 acres), Taromeo (14,715
acres) and Yabba (16,407 acres) —in the
Gladstone, Nanango and Kilcoy districts
respectively. Last year 238 square miles
of leasehold was resumed.
Paid capital is £325,000 in 250,000 £1
prefs. and 600,000 ords. of 2s. 6d. each
—l7s. 6d. (£525,000) was struck off the
ords. in 1932 to wipe out accumulated
losses. A year or so ago the Q.N. Bank
owned most of the ords. and about one-
sixth of the prefs. —the properties had
fallen into the bank’s hands after the
crash of the ’nineties. In August last the
prefs. agreed to cancel arrears of
(£192,500, or 15s. sd. a share) to the end
of 1936, and to reduce the rate of aiv.
from 7 p.c. to 6 p.c. cumulative. In
return they gained the right to elect two
directors, and to share in surplus assets,
if any, in the event of a wind-up. Also, a
year’s div. (£15,000) was paid in respect
of 1937, though the overdraft had to be
increased to do it.
Last year the season in the west of
Queensland opened with more promise
than usual, but after February things grew
steadily worse, and so continued till after
the close of accounts, when the country
was in a bad way, Stock losses on the
co.’s far western runs continued at an in-
creasing rate until about the middle of
February, 1939, when good relief rains fell.
At the close of accounts the co. had
written off on account of deaths 8974
cattle and 15,265 sheep, leaving 96,955
cattle and 83,910 sheep on the runs at
the end of December, 1938. This, a
smaller turn-off of stock, a market for
stores which had practically collapsed in
the west, and lower prices for wool are
reflected in a contraction of £24,759 in
gross earnings (£107,118). Exes. (£107,016)
were up £7302, owing to drought and a
lift in wages. After allowing for de-
preciation, shown as written off in the
table, the net result was a profit of £lO2,
down £32,062. But the payment to the
prefs. already referred to lifted the
amount of capital unrepresented by tan-
gibles in the books at the end of Decem-
ber to £52,811, or Is. 9d. per ord. share.
The year’s misfortunes are again re-
flected in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Capital . . £850,000 £325,000 £325,000 £325,000
Liabilities .. 241,390 231,130 157,425 191,563
Freeholds .. 68,774 68,774 28,083 28,083
Leaseholds . . 237,070 154,857 139,050 133,947
Plant, etc. .. 70,780 60,569 62,823 60,131
Livestock . . 231,391 198,648 202,649' 218,809
Wool .. .. 5,830 10,338 10,542 14,245
Debtors, cash, etc, 2,027 1,904 1,364 8,537
To add £16,160 to the book value of
livestock (the value of lambs and calves
exceeded the loss from mortality), £7173
to debtors’ balances, etc., £3703 to the
value of wool on hand, and pay the pref.
div., £34,138 was added to the amount
coming to outsiders, including the bank.
Including livestock, more or less liquids
exceeded the outside debt by £50,019
when the books closed, or £7lll less than
at the previous balance.
As for the current term, recent rains
have grassed the runs, and stock is now
putting on condition, but further falls are
wanted to make the properties comfort-
able over the winter. Subject to seasonal
and market developments, the outlook at
the moment seems more promising for
cattle than for sheep and wool. The
prefs.’ prospects have receded before the
mounting debt.
The prefs., covered by 21s. 9d. in net
tangibles, are now offered at 9s. Last
year they sold at 11s. 6d. The market
takes a speculative interest in the ords.
at a penny each,
Concreters, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Dli it.
& iC £ £
1928.. 283 Nil 459
Nominal
Reserves.*
1929.. 8,204 15 p.c. = 4246 395 S 3,499
1930.. 13,292 15 „ „ 4249 9043 12.542
1931.. 5,726 10 „ „ 2833 2893 15,435
1932.. 5,050 10 „ „ 2833 2217 17,652
1933.. 5,429 10 „ „ 2833 2596 20,248
1934.. 3,397 71,, ~ 2124 1273 21,521
Loss. v
1935.. 7,889 Nil 13,632
Unexplained addition, £5ll .. .. 14,143
Profit.
1936.. 1,510 5 p.c. = 1416 94 14,237
1937.. 4,007 10 „ „ 2833 1174 15,411
1938.. 6,107 15 „ „ 4599 1508 16.919
*Subject to patent rights, processes, etc., £21,408
at Sept. 30, 1938.
Thus far this little co. has given a very
satisfactory account of itself. It was
formed in Sydney late in 1927 to operate
a patent for turning out concrete pipes,
etc., for the Government and other public
bodies. For the rights it paid away
£20,008 of its then £28,327 of capital.
Still, for the seven years to the close of
accounts in 1934, it earned enough to
pay divs, aggregating 67.5 p.c. (an aver-
age of 9.6 p.c. p.a.), and at the same time
to accumulate £21,521 of reserves. Then
the Government decided to carry out
drainage work, etc., by day labor instead
of under contract as formerly, and a loss
of £7889 showed up in the co.’s accounts
for 1935. Soon, however, the Govern-
ment abandoned day labor and restored
the contract system, and the co.’s earn-
ings responded promptly.
Last year the business began to spread.
The patents for the pneumatic core plant
of Concreters (Vic.), Ltd., were bought
for £3500 in f.-p. shares, and several im-
portant contracts were completed in the
southern State. Also an office was opened
in Brisbane, where some profitable
work was obtained. Net earnings
sprang £2lOO, reaching £6107, equal to
19.9 p.c. on average capital, as against
14.1, 5.3, a loss, 12 and 19.1 p.c. back
to 1933. The div., which had been
stepped up from 5 p.c. in ’36 to 10 p.c.
in ’37, was kept at the higher figure, and
a 5 p.c. bonus was added, making 15


in nil
Mi
■
rnv&ki
WMM
m
Head Office
Sydney, N.S.W.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL £4,739,012, 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Hegd Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
London Office: 18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD
STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Etd.; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.;
National Provincial Bank, Etd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia. And at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
For the best value in ENGINEERS’ TOOLS —
William Adams & Company, Limited. These tools
are fully illustrated and priced in our latest General
Catalogue. Write to 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
your free copy.— Advt.
* # ■ ’ * *
RARE MINERALS AND METALS—Ask 0. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.. LTD.. Collins House,
Melbourne, and Bowden Street, Alexandria, Sydney,
for advice regarding value and marketing of, rare
minerals and metals. —Advt,
* * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
■ —Advt.
* * * :>
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
WHO 9
PAYS •
Naturally, it is your responsibility
as a husband and father always
to protect your dependents. You
will be able to rest in content-
ment knowing that their futures
are secure if you are wise enough
to assure your life. Give them
the security they expect from
you—assure yourself to-day with
the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane,
IV in gel lo Mouse. Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
Public Notice.
CUTHBERT’S MISIMA GOLDMINE
LIMITED.
NOTICE is hereby given that an Interim Divi-
dend (No. 10) of 1/- per share has been
authorised by the Directors payable on the
23rd June, 1939. The Share Transfer Books
of the Company will be closed from the 17th
to the 24th June, 1939, both dates inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
CHAS. C. BOWN,
Secretary.
22 Bridge Street, Sydney,
2nd June, 1939.
THE BEST TIME OF
YOUR LIFE
WHEN you are in your twenties,
sir, you can secure A.M.P. Life
Assurance at 1 a lower rate than you
will as you get older. It is the best
time of your life.
Ask any older man of your
acquaintance and he will almost cer-
tainly tell you that he REGRETS
not having taken out more A.M.P.
policies when he was young. He
could have done it—he could have
afforded it but he just didn’t do it.
Said a man of 60 recently: “If I
had known as much about A.M.P.
policies when I was in my twenties
as I do to-day, I should be able to
retire now. There never was a time
when 1 could not have afforded
more.”
Profit by this experience. Ask the
nearest A.M.P. office to send you a
representative to talk this matter
over with you. Give him your con-
fidence. He will respect it and his
advice will be sound.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire. .
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
p.c. for the year. The £l5OB that re-
mained reduced the amount of capital
unrepresented by tangibles to £4489
patents, etc., figure at £21,408, up £l4OO.
There is nothing uneasy about the
finances: —-
• 1931. 1935. 1937. 1935.
Paid capital .. £28,327 £28,327 £28,327 £31,827
Liabilities . . 8,441 12,653 10,469 5,681
Patent rights, etc. 20,008 20,008 20,008 21,408
Freehold, fittings, etc. 2,517 4,065 3,973 5,212
Stocks .. .. 997 6,801 9.024 7,743
Debtors .. . . 32.036 22,399 18.438 14,944
Cash, etc 346 1,851 3,472 7,506
The addition of £3500 to capital and of
£l4OO to patent rights were on account of
the Victorian business taken over. Of
the growth of £4034 in cash, etc., £3678
was in respect of deposits on contracts
in hand when the books closed. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£24,512) was £4047.
Subject to continued public spending
on concrete pipes, maintenance of the
contract system, and to the absence of
competition in the form of other patents,
the co. looks like continuing to do well.
The market sums up the position by pay-
ing 265. for the pound shares, covered by
17s. 2d. in net tangibles. The return at
265. would be 11.5 p.c. if the 15 p.c.
distribution continues, or 7.6 p.c. on a
bare 10 p.c. div. basis.
First weekly return from the Grey
River Co.’s dredge, operating at Ikama-
tua (M.L.), shows that the machine turned
over 90,795 c.y. in 126 hours for 4290 z.
gold, an average of 2.26 gr. per yard.
Costs, etc., are not mentioned. The
plant, which is of the all-electric spud
type, is equipped with 16-c.f. buckets,
and is designed to handle 4,500,000 c.y.
of dirt annually, or 375,000 c.y. monthly.
The area to be dredged covers some eight
miles of river flats, containing approxi-
mately 63,000,000 c.y., averaging 2gr.
gold. The maximum depth is 43ft., mini-
mum 15ft., average 28ft. The co., which
is an offshoot of Rimu Gold Dredging,
an American-controlled prospecting con-
cern, has an issued capital of £300,000
in 10s. shares, of which Rimu holds
320,000, including 200,000 paids received
as vendor’s consideration. The market
prices the scrip at 17s. or thereabouts.
* * ❖ *
Although Tennant Creek goldfield,
Centralia, is not yet sufficiently developed
to enable a definite statement to be made
concerning the origin of its ores, authori-
ties on the subject consider it improbable
that the hematite ore-bodies will give
place to sulphides at depth. It is thought
that the lenses of hematite might possibly
represent bodies of magnetite which
formed during the regional meta-
morphism of the area, and that these
lenses subsequently guided hydrothermal
solutions, which deposited gold and bus-
muth in their present positions. It is con-
sidered that a large part of the hematite
developed from oxidation of the magne-
tite that is present throughout the field,
and that possibly such hematite will pass
into the magnetite at depth.
* * * *
Blue Mountains Gold, a Cairns show
operating on the Blue Mountains field, 35
miles n.-e. of Coen, Cape York Penin-
sula, earned £147 for the 10 months
ended April 30, and exes, totalled £2458,
thus raising the p. and 1. debit to £10,031,
which has been charged to development,
making the book value of the leases
£18,960. Plant figures at £6278 ; stores,
£344 ; gold in transit, £lO4. The amount
coming to outsiders was £1377, of which
£396 was undrawn directors’ fees. Paid
capital is £24,310 in 100,000 shares of ss.
each. The unfavorable result was due
mainly to the steam winding and com-
pressor plant not again reaching the field
(it was returned south for repairs after
arriving damaged in June last) till the end
of November, when the heaviest wet
season for 10 years set in—about 900 in.
fell between December and April, mak-
ing the deep shafts unsafe for working.
Meanwhile, the property has been offered
to London interests at a price that, if
realised, will return the prefs. around 9s.
and the ords. about 4s. per share. To
enable the co. to push ahead with de-
velopment between now and July, when
London’s engineer is due to inspect,
shareholders are now asked to take up
20,000 new ss. redeemable prefs. These
shares are preferential for divs. to the
extent of the amount called up ; when this
amount has been paid in divs., the shares
automatically become ords.
V * * *
At Bee Creek diggings, near Eungella
(Q.), there is a parallel system of almost
east-west fractures over a width of at
least half a mile, says District Geologist
J. H. Reid, who considers the deposits
to be of an insignificant type, useful only
for gouging by prospectors. This is be-
cause the shoots, in which gold values
are quite poor, are narrow, short and
separated by considerable distances.
* * * *
The recently-located deep lead at
Kikoira, 45 miles W.N.W. of West Wya-
long (N.S.W.), is regarded by A. J. Reid,
of O. T. Lenipriere, as one of the most
important discoveries of tin in the Com-
monwealth of recent years. The extent
to which the old watercourse meandered
through this belt of granite country
before the 50ft. to 60ft. of alluvium
buried its treasure has not yet been de-
termined ; but it has been proved for
over two miles, with prospectors hot on
its trail for a further three. Actual
width of the lead is also still in doubt,
but J. Gibson has driven 300 ft. across it
from his prospecting shaft, indicating a
width of over four chains at this point.
The necessarily primitive methods of
treatment have limited prospectors to ex-
traction of the bottom 2ft. of wash, from
which the first 2000 c-y. treated averaged
401 b. per c.y. This leaves a foot of top
wash carrying 101 b. per c.y.; so the aver-
age value of wash so far proved can be
taken as 301 b. per c.y. over a thickness
of 3ft. Gibson credits his location of
the lead to the divining rod.
* * * *
Lady Shenton, hopeful of adding a
second string to its auriferous bow in
Westralia, has contracted with Goldstone,
Ltd., to test the latter’s mine at Sand-
stone. The agreement provides that,
should the property turn out to be worth
having, a new co. is to be formed in which
the Shenton and the Goldstone will hold
equal amounts of capital. There is also
an arrangement whereby 'the Shenton
undertakes to dispose of its Menzies
plant, and the Goldstone its mine and
sundry plant, to the new co. if and when
formed. Opencutting and a little driving
at a depth of approximately 50ft. have
shown the gold-carrying formation in the
Goldstone to be of payable value and
good width.
* * * *
Mt. Ida Gold Mines. Ltd. (W.A.),
formed in Perth towards the end of 1936,
first acquired the assets of a co. of the
same name operating at Mt. Ida, north of
Menzies, and later purchased the property
and plant of Timoni, in the same district.
For the 12 months to the end of June,
1938, unsatisfactory results were reported,
owing, the directors said, to lack of capi-
tal necessary to complete the installation
of a cyanide plant and extra power.
Funds at that time approximated £lOOO,
and ore reserves, proved, probable and
possible, were estimated at 20,000 tons.
Since then the way of the co. has been
hard.
* * * *
First Hit, Menzies (W.A.), announces
a dividend of 3d. and the discovery of a
reef assaying 2oz. over 4ft. at the 670 ft.
level of the Queensland Menzies shaft.
The find is thought to be a continuation
of one of three made years ago by the
old Queensland Menzies Co. and success-
fully worked by that now-long-defunct
concern in a higher level. First Hit’s
April return showed a working surplus of
£1370, which is considered very satisfac-
tory for a small venture.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) has re-
solved to give holders a 4s. share in ex-
change for every four Is. shares now
held. Issued capital of the co. since 1937
has been £224,820 in 4,496,400 Is. shares.
There are 3600 shares in reserve.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
H.G.: (1) and (2) Deposits fairly plentiful
in the Eastern States. Fifield, Attunga and
Barraba (N.S.W.) have been worked. (3) (a)
Yes; ( b ) great depths are uneconomic. (4)
Principally steel industry as basic lining for
furnaces and refractory bricks. (5) Big users
have own deposits. Try B.H.P. Co., Newcastle,
Fifield Magnesite and Refractories Co., Gran-
vills, N.S.W. (6) Approximately £3 p.t. de-
livered Sydney for 95f p.c. and over. (7)
The composition is magnesium carbonate,
usually white, greyish-white or yellowish in
color, transparent to opaque. Effervesces with
hot acids. Turns pink after heating on char-
coal, moistened with cobalt nitrate and re-
heated... .R.G.F.: (1) Stone and Cox Bonus
Tables (Overseas Edition) for 1938 will give
all the information required. (2) Yes, but a
co. might have improved its position so that pros-
pects are better than past results indicate, or vice
versa. .. .J.S.L.: No record of co. mentioned.
If you supply address we will make inquiries.
. ...J.E.S.: Write secretary Eoloma (Fiji) Gold
Mines, 360 Collins-street, Melbourne Sam:
Hold one and two, sell three. Bendigo Brew-
ing worth consideration... .J.R.808 : Latest
information is that co. is producing osmiridium
from a lode and reports promising prospects.
....W.A.A.: (1) The N.Z. forestry bonds have
a market value, generally lower than what was
paid for them; scope for selling is restricted.
We know of no market for the other bonds
mentioned. (2) The First Australian Unit
Trust appears a very fair proposition of its
type, and there is a regular market for the
units,


SMOKE-OH!
“Should wives tell their husbands everything
before marriage?” — Women’s mag.
Why not? They always do afterwards.
•b 4‘ 4* 4*
“How do women react to cruel behavior
on the part of their husbands?”
— Psychologist’s report.
Some respond. Others co-respond.
•b 4* 4* 4*
“There is nothing that can travel as many
miles without water as the camel.”
—Nature note.
Unless it is a roller-towel in a board-
ing-house.
►b *b -b 4*
“The new lipstick is the exact shade of red
as that used in automatic traffic signals.”
—Fashion note.
However, it doesn’t mean “stop.”
4* .4* 4* 4*
Some women put every penny their
husbands earn on their backs, and they’re
still bare.
4« 4* 4« 4*
“Thieves Drink Baby’s Milk.”
—Melbourne “Argus.”
Cat-burglars.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“There is a class of people who can never
take a hint.” — Women’s mag.
Those who persist in going to a film
after seeing the trailer the week before.
•b *b *b 4*
“A strange wanderlust causes some people
to move from place to place.”
— Anthropologist’s lecture.
With others it’s merely arrears of rent.
*b *b *b 4* \-
“Australian bagpipes repairers prefer kan-
garoo skin to sheep skin for repairing bag-
pipes.”—News item.
Isn’t it a bit risky mixing hops with the
Scotch?
4* 4' 4* 4*
“As he stood in the wings and listened to
his two favorite pupils seeking to impress the
judges with a tremulous rendition of the
immortal aria with its difficult passages of
top notes, Tony the Italian singing-master mut-
tered a fervent little prayer.”
—Extract from novel.
For those in peril on the high Cs?
4 1 4‘ 4* 4 1
“There is room for improvement in the
modern flat.” — Building magazine.
That’s about all there is room for.
“Hop in, Jacky — you'll be all right."
“ I'm all plurry right now, thanks, boss”
“Stern Measures —Drunken Motorist Given
Six Strokes of the Cane.” — “Argus.”
Come, come!
“Airliner Skids 300 Yards.”
• —Melbourne “Argus.”
It isn’t likely that taxi-drivers will
allow this record to stand unchallenged.
4* *h 4* 4*
“Car stood at his door for 52 days.”
—“Sun.”
And then his wife yelled, “Only an-
other minute, dear ; I’m nearly ready! ”
“The man was taken to the watch-house on
a stretcher.” — Daily paper.
Having been on a bender.
“ He'll make that mistake once too often."
Give a woman an inch and she’ll think
she is a ruler.
4 1
“You simply put the bulbs in the ground
and shortly up they come!” — Gardening note.
Especially if you’ve got a dog.
Out of the Wood.
“He cured himself of intense melancholia
by taking an interest in the cultivation of
trees.” — Medical report.
Deep-rooted sorrow spoilt his nights
And made him pine for slumber’s
balm ;
He cared no fig for life’s delights;
For gloominess he took the palm.
Yet he, resolving not to bough,
Saying, “By gum, I won’t be broke !”
Branched out to study trees; and now
His doctor has declared him oak!
T. W. NATHAN.
Aboriginallesame Classic.
“Aboriginal names [suggested as an alterna-
tive to Blacktown, N.S.W.] include Alpha (the
first or beginning).”— “Sun.”
This seems to confirm the claim by
Professor Bitdotti that Australia was really
discovered first by the early Italians. Long
before Dampier was ever heard of, he
says, an expedition organised by the then
Ministry for Propaganda and Enlighten-
ment set out from Genoa with a cargo
of dictionaries of Greek and Latin
phrases. These he exchanged for fish-
and-chip and fruit concessions in the
Great South Land.
From the early grounding in the
classics thus gained by our abos. can
undoubtedly be traced their fondness for
the cry of “Ad unum omnes!” yelled by
the bucks in chorus when threatened with
attack; the lubra’s softly-voiced “Amor
vincit omnia !” as she was dragged along
by the hair by the victorious warrior who
had won her in combat; the Myall’s
terror-stricken “Arcana Celestial” as he
shied away from a debbil-debbil hole ;
and the philosophic “Auctor pretiosa
facit” of a later Binghi which accom-
panied his thanks for “bit tabac.”
It also explains Cook’s amazement
at the east coast natives’ advanced educa-
tion. On the explorer’s giving an assur-
ance that his intentions were peaceful, the
chief murmured something about swal-
lowing that tale cum grano salis; and
on knocking back an invitation to a
blowout on stewed death-adder on the
shores of Botany Bay Cook had to take
the chief’s sarcastic “De gustibus non
est disputandum” on the chin.
The great influence of the Greek and
Latin tongues on the abo. is strikingly
manifested in the short speech which was
made to his tribe by King Quartpot ai
Governor Phillip’s landing, and which
is now preserved in the Mitchell
Library:
“Big white pfeller boss him come longa big
boat, mirabile dictu! That pfeller makit him
mag, him say black brother no chuckum spear,
no chuckum boomerang, him no chuckum
bullet. Me big king and big white chief
bimeby par nobile fractrum. Plenty corrobo-
ree, plenty gammon fight, plenty rum mine
tinkit. Big white chief takum feed longa tribe
ab ovo usque ad mala.” *
And who among Sydney’s beer-chewers
hasn’t heard even a half-caste refer to
the old First and Last pub at Circular
Quay as the Alpha and Omega?
BO.
Just a Moment.
D. C. H.
“Just a moment,’’ she said,
“While I powder my nose.”
’Twas before we were wed,
So l sat there and waited —and waited.
Then at last I rebelled,
And 1 slammed fast the door,
But I found myself held •
By my beard —which had grown as /
waited.
How to Become a Handyman.
A COMPIETE GUIDE.
VIII.
Whilst outside panning may give the
handyman a chance to bring off certain
effects of rugged beauty, indoor decorat-
ing will give the fullest scope to his
artistic talents. Much more preparatory
work is essential in this sphere, however.
Assume you want to do out a bedroom,
walls and ceiling. The first thing is to
clean the fibrous plaster ceiling. It can
be painted over, flakes and all, but the
kalsomine has an annoying tendency to
drip off the points of the flakes.
Get the hedge shears and clip off all
these flakes neatly. This will give you an
open go to sandpaper the rest of it.
This is best done by putting a plank
between two stepladders. Wrap a piece of
coarse sandpaper around the spade and
walk along the plank (which should be
the length of the room) holding the edge
of the spade tightly against the ceiling.
This will cut a
swathe through the
old kalsomine, and
by shifting the plank
a spade-width at a
time across the room
the whole of the
ceiling will be done
systematically. T o
prevent getting the
eyes full of falling
dust and kalsomine
take a good look
both at the plank
and the ceiling so as
to get an idea where
to put your feet and
the spade, and then
walk along it with
the eyes shut. A
couple of bed tick-
ings under the plank
will break any falls
should you walk off
it.
Having gone over the whole of the
ceiling with the sandpaper, take the cur-
tains off the rods and lightly sweep off
what remains of the old kalsomine. The
curtains will already have been covered
with the fine powder, so a bit more on
them will not be noticed.
Preparation of the new kalsomine is
important. The tradesman who charges
a fancy price for putting it on always
makes it of the consistency of milk, and
gives it two coats. He does this, of
course, so that it won’t stay on very long,
a circumstance which will obviously
react to his future benefit.
As your object is naturally to make it
last as long as possible, it follows that
the best results will be obtained not only
by making the mixture as thick as you
can but also by giving it a glutinous
qualify.
Melt in a saucepan everything you can
find about the place possessing viscid
properties—old bits of glue, office paste,
tapioca (the “doll’s eyes” to be removed
unless they can be crushed), drippings
from the cocky’s-joy tin, seccatine and
any burgoo left over from breakfast.
Mix in three packets of kalsomine, and
add just sufficient water to render it
liquid.
Certain alleged handymen are content
to pursue the out-of-date method of slap-
ping kalsomine on with a heavy brush
while balancing precariously on the top
step of a ladder, their necks stretched out
like a mopoke’s, and ears, eyes and hair
clogged with the drippings. It is no un-
common thing for them to require several
weeks of massage treatment to get the
resultant marcel waves out of their necks.
All wrong. Simply chop the fuzzy end
off the Turk’s-head broom (this can easily
be glued back on afterwards), and nail
the bath sponge to the end of the long
handle. Dip this in the bucket, and dab
evenly all over the ceiling until it is com-
pletely covered. To prevent the kalso-
mine running down the handle on to the
carpet and being wasted, rest the end of
the handle in a jam-jar; this can be
emptied into the bucket as it gets full.
The dado can be similarly treated, but,
as this is plaster over brick and pot absor-
bent, it will be necessary to thin out the
kalsomine, the adhesive quality of which
should make it cling on to both ceiling
and dado for years.
Regarding the walls, don’t waste time
washing the old kalsomine off. By fol-
lowing a good coat of size with a couple
of solid coats of kalsomine, the old color
should not show through.
Time can be saved by getting the kids
to spray the size on with the garden
spray. Pour some boiling water over a
few pounds of gelatine, and stir until dis-
solved. While your offspring are enjoy-
ing themselves shooting this all over the
walls, mix your kalsomine —this time it
will need to be thin.
When the size is dry, get an old towel,
dip it in the bucket and slop it on, start-
ing from the picture-rail and working
down. It will surprise you how large an
area can be covered quickly. Moreover,
your work will not be marred by brush-
marks, which would be the case if you
put it on with a whitewash brush. Re-
member, though, that if the towel is not
drawn down the wall in a perfectly
straight line, the kalsomine will show an
unsightly wave.
Don’t mess about with a wet rag try-
ing to remove the kalsomine which has
fallen on door-jambs, skirting, furniture,
etc. This will only cause it to go dull
and smudgy. Wait until it has dried,
when it can be easily scraped off with a
safety-razor blade.
S. W. K.


v;V * t\
o \ -V-
-y-.jyss. *
1
m
m.
TO GIVE THE SAME DEGREE
OF INSULATION AS
CAIiEITE!
NO home is modern. unless it is
insulated ! Unless it can defy
Winter's cold and Summer's heat.
Now LOOK AT THE PICTURE
ABOVE ! The secret lies, of course,
in the tens of thousands of tiny dead-
air cells which are imprisoned in
Cane-ite. These cells remain com-
pletely indifferent to changes in tem-
perature. Heat and cold find it
impossible to penetrate them. And
the same thing applies to sound.
That is why Cane-ite keeps a room
peaceful as well as comfortable.
Cane-ite is made in handy-sized,
easily handled, white-ant-proofed
boards of just the right thicknesses
for all purposes. It can be used in
either of its normal, colours (Natural
or Ivory —to give maximum light re-
flection) or it can be colour-finished
in any tone desired. Most important
of all, Cane-ite is NOT EXPENSIVE.
ANOTHER REMINDER . . . Furniture
made from Masonite Presdwood or Tem-
pered Presdwood is the latest vogue.
Masonite boards are grainless, splinterless,
and properly applied, cannot crack or warp.
Cfl£§-£*E
THE CANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. (Building Materials Div.)*.
Please send me free sample and details of □ CANE-ITE Q MASONITE
NAME . : H±
ADDRESS „...._ -
* Write to your nearest branch: Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. CA-15-9
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY
m
9
/A
4.
e A
■ e mn mtM^ V
1$
•$»
Are you preparing for a possible time of
adversity?
If you are wise, you will progressively
strengthen your position in order to withstand
any contingencies that might arise, thus
assuring your future financial security.
There is no safer method of doing this than
by placing your savings on interest-bearing
deposit with the Union Bank.
These deposits are accepted in sums of £5
and upwards at any Branch.
%
UNION BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1837
(Incorporated, in England)
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND
Business, Rollery.etc.
Australia’s Present Difficulties
It is no use blinking at the fact that
Australia has come to another delicate
stage in its career. Though a young and
vigorous country, times are hard with us
once more, and, particularly as traders
with the rest of the world, we are up
against difficult problems. But the low
prices we are getting for what we have
to sell abroad are not our only trouble.
A few years ago such prices would have
shown a profit to producers in some
cases where they are now showing a loss.
Within our own coastline, during a period
of undoubted progress, we have been
creating burdens for ourselves, princi-
pally in the shape of increasing costs that
are the result of political and economic
expediency, and of an inherent streak in
human nature that seeks unearned incre-
ment as a right, and which is prone to
be generous with other people’s money.
To people who are in the habit of read-
ing this paper the changing circum-
stances of the country will not be real-
ised now with a sense of shock. The
increasing seriousness of the cost of
living, the cost of money, the tightening
of credit and the contracting margin of
landmen’s profits has been stressed on this
page from time to time. It is one thing
to be optimistic when an unavoidable
difficulty has arisen ; it is another to shut
the eye and gloss over our own short-
comings when such errors can only lead
tc trouble. This page, for instance, never
did feel happy about the probable effect
of the award advocated by Mr. Redda-
away in 1937. Though the award added
6s. a week to the worker’s weekly wage,
time is proving that the worker is not 6s.
a week better off. But the more
struggling types of industry have really
suffered from the burden of this award,
and the general tendency now is toward
greater unemployment.
Last week knight James Elder, chair-
man of the National Bank of Australasia,
gave a banker’s view of the situation. It
was a clear-headed address. He
emphasised our difficulties and our weak-
nesses, but didn’t overlook our advan-
tages and our strength.
The percentage of workers employed for last
quarter was little below that of the corre-
sponding months of 1938, which, in the circum-
stances, may be said to be satisfactory, but
not altogether pleasing.
Output of manufacturing industries was
maintained at a high rate for most of the
year, but there are indications of some falling-
off during recent months. The value of build-
ing permits issued in the six capital cities dur-
ing the last quarter was approximately equal to
that for the corresponding period of last year.
The value of retail sales appears to have
kept up remarkably well, the monetary turn-
over being probably about the same as 12
months ago, but price rises may be masking
some decrease in volume.
Clearly, the fundamental reason for the
comparative stability of internal activity is the
enforced reorganisation of our finances in
1930-32, when Australia boldly faced unpre-
cedented problems and readjusted her economy
on a sound basis. Her determination then to
ensure national solvency and to reduce costs
has brought its reward. Her world credit was
enhanced, efficiency in production was de-
, veloped to a marked degree, and industry ex-
panded on her own financial resources. These
factors contributed materially to our economic
rehabilitation and are standing us in good
stead in these days of low export values.
Stable internal conditions have encouraged
an inflow of overseas capital for private enter-
prise, assisting materially toward the develop-
ment, of our secondary industries. Nearly 43
p.c. of the total recorded national production
for the financial year 1937-38 was derived from
secondary industries, compared with 35 p.c.
for 1927-28, a notable expansion which has
given us a much better balanced economy than
that of 10 years ago.
The last two paragraphs are full of
relevant fact. The frontal attack on in-
flated costs, etc., during the worst period
of the slump was a courageous but defi-
nite step towards recovery. However,
the sacrifices made then, and their obvi-
ous benefits, should not have been so
easily forgotten by many of us. The
National Bank’s chairman again:
By reason of heavy "unproductive Govern-
mental expenditure our internal activity is dis-
posed to become ill-balanced, some secondary
industries being stimulated at the expense ol
others and, in particular, I- am afraid, at the
expense of the primary industries.
There is no simple measure of costs, but
both wholesale and retail prices are now at
about their pre-depression level, while export
prices are 35 p.c. below the figure of that
period; this indicates a wide disparity between
costs and prices for the primary producer and
emphasises an urgent need for increasing effici-
ency and keeping costs to a minimum in all
industry if the primary producer is to be given
relief on a sound basis.
As to our internal credit situation, Sir
James gave his opinion on something that
has exercised many shrewd brains for
some time. Why, since export prices
have fallen so steeply, haven’t we felt a
greater slump in employment, etc., than
has actually occurred? As The Bulletin
has pointed out many times hitherto,
and Sir James last week, secondary in-
dustries have become a sort of balance-
wheel in our economy. But the banker
made another point:
A comparative tranquillity of Governmental
policies and absence of major political changes
within this country have definitely assisted
towards the smooth working of our economy
of late years. Also, the banking authorities
have wisely refrained from taking a short-
term view of the falling value of our exports
or of the difficulties created by international
tension.
The lower value of exports and the con-
sequent decline in London funds could quite
conceivably have brought about a restriction
of credit, but the policy of the trading banks
has been, and still is, to meet the reasonable
requirements of borrowing clients, granting new
advances with discretion and with the object
of directing investment into ventures likely to
be of maximum service to the country.
We should feel comforted that our economy,
for a period at least, has proved capable of
weathering a difficult situation.
We have overcome greater difficulties than
any I envisage in the months immediately
ahead.
The chairman also touched on the diffi-
culty of raising loan money in Australia
and the impossibility of getting in much
further revenue by way of taxation —this
at a time when a defence programme
was under way.
It appears that Australia must consider the
questions of London borrowing and of ex-
panding internal credit. There are objections
to both courses, but the need of funds for
defence purposes is so essential and urgent
that we are forced to tread unpleasant paths.
If there is no other way out of this
credit difficulty than by borrowing over-
seas, then the Loan Council should be
forced to sign the poison book every time
it gives an lOU in London, and to use the
proceeds strictly as medicine. Our posi-
tion may be difficult, but with a bountiful
season indicated in most parts next year,
and private industry still reasonably
healthy, it is by no means desperate. If
it were allowed to become desperate Lon-
don lenders wouldn’t have us on any
more than our investors would.
Broken Hill Prop.’s financial year
closed at the end of May, and it seems
that pig-iron output will be about 1 p.c.
up on 1937-38 figures when final results
are available, with a rise of about 2\
p.c. in ingot steel. A greater part of the
Commonwealth steel production is com-
ing from the A.I. and S. mills at Port
Kembla, and these B.H.P. also controls.
But it isn’t getting any divs. from A.I.
and S. yet. There are still pref. div.
arrears to be cleared off. Net earnings
during B.H.P.’s last term should be pretty
close to the 1937-38 record, though costs
have been rising.
Australian iron and steel output is
being assisted by a demand from Britain.
The Newcastle works now have a steel
capacity of 1,000,000 tons a year, and
Port Kembla is expanding, too. Produc-
tion of pig-iron and tinplate in South
Aus. is also contemplated.
Sf: Jfc #
In Melbourne last week:
Yellow Cabs 7s. 6d. shares rose strongly
to I.os. lOd. A 12 p.c. div. was paid last term
(interim 4 p.c., final 8 p.c.), and an interim of
5 p.c. has been declared in respect of the
current term. Especially in Sydney, the cab
business is reasonably prosperous. Yellow
works in with cab-drivers on a percentage basis.
’Change continued to be interested in
Solomon Islands gold issues. Solomon Gold
Mines, which is interested near the areas
looked at by Percy Penman on behalf of the
Prattens, and by Davis and Ault on behalf of
Pioneer Gold interests, saw £2O paid for its
£5 shares. Valikorta Ridge was quoted at 455.
Holders of 91 p.c. of the shares in B.R.
(Radio), Ltd., agreed to the sale of their
scrip to Universal Guarantee. The merger
will now go through.
Embarrassment was caused by the premature
announcement of two new loans —a £900,000
State Electricity loan at 4f p.c., and a
£650,000 Tramways Board loan at 43 p.c. —at
a time when the Commonwealth and States
are asking for £4,475,000 at £3 19s. 2d. p.c.
The Loan Council took a “serious view” of
the matter.


United Provisions.
Very dull in last week’s buoyant
market, the ord. shares in United
Provisions, the Hutton-Foggitt-
Jones merger, returned 8.4 p.c. at
7s. 2d. —assuming that the 3 p.c.
div. be continued. The chief draw-
back to this stock is that the
business is overcapitalised. But it
is quite healthy, and, though earn-
ings fluctuate, finances are kept in
excellent condition.
a
.UCA
BRITISH W MADE.
THERE IS A
BATTERY
<*2£>
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
aiBM
m
%
/o
<*»
I
*»*
LUCAS Quality Batteries
are Warranted for 2 Years!
OBTAINABLE FROM DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Bennett & Wood Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company,
15 Goulburn Street,
SYDNEY.
Hannan Bros., Ltd.,
58-62 EJinders Street, :
ADELAIDE.
W. T. Burns,
46 Brisbane Street,
HOBART.
Bell’s Auto Electrical Service,
166 Brisbane Street,
LAUNCESTON.
Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd.,
156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
Cr. Adelaide and Wharf Streets,
BRISBANE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
15 East Street,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
Sturt Street,
TOWNSVILLE.
Elphinstones Pty., Ltd.,
6 Alpin Street,
CAIRNS.
Joseph Lucas (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 627-639 Wellington Street, PERTH.
j
The sharemarket continued to show a
bright face well into last week. B. H.
Prop, was very firm ex div., and so was
A.C.I. ord. scrip. Yet it was difficult to
see how the general run of investments
were worth more than they were six
weeks ago. Then they were too low,
probably, so that recent rises on ’Change
may be no more than a re-establishment
of values that had previously been on
sacrifice. The economic position within
Australia has not improved one per cent,
over the past six weeks. Costs are still
eating into values at a disturbing rate,
and export prices are at stagnation point.
There isn’t much use in being alarmed
about the situation, because “scare” does
no good to anyone. But the seriousness
of the position demands that we try to
put our economic house in order. In
the midst of low wool and wheat prices
and increasing unemployment, the
average Federal basic wage rose a shil-
ling last week. Such rises are doing no
one any good ; it is simply the dog chas-
ing its tail. During the murky period of
“international situations” we have been
drifting further into such difficulties as
these.
Russia’s rejection of the Anglo-French
advances last week had the immediate
effect of knocking B.H.P. shares back by
a shilling and A.C.I. and British Tobacco
ords. by 6d. each. Barrier mines and
Electro. Zinc dropped more sharply—in
London the metals slumped following the
“disappointing”. news from Moscow.
Metals firmed again in London on
Friday, and Australian ’Changes showed
some recovery.
* ;k jfc *
Australasian Paper ords., considerably
mentioned here as a remunerative invest-
ment, are an exasperating market stock.
Early in 1938 they looked' cheap' at
around 31s. (Before the £1,000,000 pref.
issue by A.P.M. they had been over 405.)
Somebody’s estate was being disposed of
about that time, and A.P. and P. ords.
were among the assets. Everything
pointed to better earnings when the new
Botany cardboard mill started working;
but estate-selling or something kept the
scrip weak. There were a couple of ral-
lies, but every now and then the shares
dropped to a 6-p.c.-yield basis. Scare
stories about the new S.A. cardboard
and cellulose projects had an effect,
though A.P.M. announced that its prices
were competitive even with overseas
manufacturers, and,that it feared no local
competition. A few weeks ago A.P. and
P. ords. were within a penny or two of
275. Suddenly interest reawakened in the
stock. Sales' took place in Sydney and
Melbourne at quotes as much as 6d. a
share different, and last week the general
behavior of the stock suggested that it
was quite unaccustomed to such interest
and activity. On Wednesday and Thurs-
day 1827 shares changed hands. They
finished up at 295. 9d., returning
5.4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The new pulp mill of the working co. in
Gippsland is scheduled to start next
month. This may be responsible for the
sudden awakening. There were also
vague rumors of some “amalgamation”
or another drifting round the share-
markets last week.
Cumberland Paper ords. looked sadly
neglected in last week’s improved
market for Australasian Paper ords.
Cumberland and A.P. and P. are inter-
ested in one and the same operating co.,
but, whereas A.P. and P. ords. have lifted
about 2s. a share in a couple of weeks,
Cumberland ords. have actually been
weaker at near 245. 9d. It is indicative
of the crack-brained attitude adopted
generally wherever these twp stocks are
concerned. At present a difference of
2s. a share between Cumberland and
A.P. and P. might be justified. But not
a difference of nearly ss.
* * * #
An agreeable development last week
in an inflating economy was the an-
nounced reduction of 3s. a ton in the
price of cement in Sydney. It will be
£4 7s. a ton on rail. The highest single
item of cost in cement manufactured in
N. S. Wales is freight from Kandos,
Portland, Berrima, etc. It averages
about 20s. a ton, and, though it costs
roughly half that to ship cement from
England to Australia, the State rail-
ways still don’t pay.
Kandos Cement 16s. shares rose to
a record price of 31s. on Thursday of
last week. This page has always pre-
ferred Kandos scrip to that of Aus-
tralian Cement, Melbourne. Both cos.
are interested in a common manu-
facturing concern, but Kandos, with a
smaller capital, has a proportionately
greater equity. The sharemarket has
nearly always taken a different view,
the Melbourne co.’s £1 shares usually
being priced on a higher basis than
Kandos 16s. scrip. Last week Kandos
took the lead. The stock was often
recommended in these pages when near
245.
* * * H=
Bonus issues being in fashion again
(Australian Glass and the M.L.C. both
stepping out), the sharemarket seems to
have renewed its hopes in the case of
Mauri Bros, and Thomson. Here is a
very well-in trader that has built up a
wide goodwill; it has no monopoly, but
it earns succulent profits from its high-
class products. It has subsidiaries which
don’t distribute all their earnings either.
But on disclosed profits the parent con-
cern could pay almost twice the 15 p.c.
div. that has been a regular thing for the
past four years. Last week market sup-
porters pushed the £1 ord. shares up to
715., at which figure they return £4 6s.
per cent, on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Highest
quote has been 75s. —in 1937. During
one period of jitters the ords. fell to 60s.
* * * *
Just as the emergency tariff, exchange,
etc., forced British exporters into setting
up factories in Australia, so are Maori-
land’s financial troubles forcing Aus-
tralian manufacturers to establish works
across the Tasman. Felt and Textiles, the
large Commonwealth maker of felts,
carpets, etc., which used to distribute
in M.L. through its subsidiary, John
Grant and Co., has decided to set up a
factory across the Tasman. Extensions
to their M.L. plant by Prestige, the
hosiery people, have also been a result of
the difficulty of getting goods into, and
money out of, Maoriland. These de-
velopments are but the beginning or'
others similar. The “black” exchange
rate between Australia and Maoriland is
now more than 10 p.c. against M.L.
**- * *
Some strictly banking facts from the
address of. James Elder, the National
Bank’s chairman: —■
For the March quarter of this year advances
and discounts of the nine trading banks
totalled £284.9 millions, having moved up by
£8.3 millions in the 12 months. Deposits
stand at £321.6 millions—a record figure and
an increase of £1.6 millions for the year,
I . However, the substantial demand for bank-
ing loans has brought the ratio of advances
to deposits •to an uncomfortably high point,
and some reduction is desirable. Cash and
securities held, £81.9 millions, represent 25.5
p.c. of deposits, compared with 25.8 p.c. last
year, but during the . past month or so there
has been a sharp decline in the liquid position
of the trading banks.
The value of bank clearings for the quarter
just ended was 3 p.c. below that of the first
quarter of 1938.
At the present time Australian export
revenue is small owing to the wool clip
having been mostly sold. This also
affects the volume of funds flowing to
the trading banks.
* * * *
During a period in which Melbourne
shareholders have been unusually critical
of sale or amalgamation proposals (take
the cases of Compressed Medical and
Industrial Gases, B.R. Radio, etc.),
shareholders in Ansett Airways, at an
extraordinary meeting last week, rejected
the offer of £56,000 made by Australian
National Airways for their undertaking.
Managing director R. M. Ansett, who op-
posed the sale, after the meeting said that
shareholders representing 91,605 shares
had voted against the proposal, and that
one holder of 1751 shares was in favor
of it. Hope of further Government
subsidies was one reason why share-
holders were in favor of carrying on.
* ❖ * *
The improved tone in the share-
markets generally is reflected in the price
of First Australian Unit Trust certifi-
cates. A representative portfolio of in-
dustrial and other shares is held, and at
the end of April the certificates were
quoted at 18s. 3d. buyers, 19s. 3d. sellers.
Last week quotes were a shilling higher
—representing roughly a 5 p.c. rise in
the market price of the stocks held. A
yield of about 5} p.c. is offering, which
is quite attractive.
* * * *
Mt. Kasi (Fiji) expects to pay a div.
this year. Though in some respects
1938 wasn’t as good as anticipated,
operations resulted in enough cash being
earned to pay for all necessary develop-
ment and equipment and to leave the
co. with a growing credit balance.
Sellers offer the .3s; shares at 3s. 9d. They
have their points as a gold spec.'


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
0 . A ¥¥ . .
Stahn Appeases Hitler.
, [This fur,her article by General Krivitsky, condensed
from the “Saturday Evening Post,” is more fully dealt
with in the panel item “Stalin’s Game.”]
„
In Western Europe and America, Hitler’s 1934
purge of the group led by Captain Rohm was inter-
preled as a weakening of the Nazi power. Stalin
had no such illusions He suirmied up:- . .
The events in Germany do not at all indicate
the collapse of the Nazi regime. On the contrary,
they are bound to lead to the consolidation of that
legime, of its administrative powers, and thereby pro-
mote further the strengthening of Hitler himself.”
Ihe course of Soviet policy toward Nazi Germany
followed from Stalin’s analysis. The Politbureau
decided to induce Hitler at all costs to make a deal
with the Soviet Government, to redouble all past
efforts to appease and befriend Hitler.
I here is probably no more widespread myth in
the world to-day than the one which presents Hitler
and Stalin as mortal and irreconcilable enemies. It is
distorted, perverted picture. The true picture is
u al °u a Ipersistent suitor who will not be discouraged
by rebuffs. Stalin is that suitor. There is enmity
on the side ot Hitler. On the side of Stalin there is
t ear. . . .
When the great myth of the Hitler-Stalin feud is
exploded and the story of their relations is traced in
their true light, the facts will show:—
a u o S ’ . stnce dead \ of Lenin, been the first
among the Soviet leaders to favor close co-operation
with Germany. If one can speak of a pro-German
in the Kremlin, Stalin has been that figure all along.
Stalin did not alter his basic attitude toward
Germany upon Hitler s rise to power. On the con-
trary, the triumph of the Nazis strengthened him in
his quest foi closer bonds with Berlin. From the very
beginning of the Hitler dictatorship, Stalin pursued
a policy of appeasement toward the Third Reich, In
this pursuit he was spurred on by the crossfire of the
Japanese menace in the Far East and the growing
power of Nazi Germany in the West,
Stahn s international policy during the last six
years has been a series of manoeuvres designed to
place him in a favorable position for a deal with
Hitler. W hen he joined the League of Nations, when
he pioposed the system of collective security, when
he sought the hand or France, flirted with Poland,
courted Great Britain, intervened in Spain, he ealeu-
ated his every move with an eye upon Berlin in the
hope that Hitler would find it advantageous to meet
his advances. . . . .
A high-water mark in this Stalin policy was
reached late in 1936, upon the conclusion of a secret
German-Japanese agreement, negotiated behind the
smoke screen of the Anti-Comintern Pact. The terms
ot that secret agreement, which came into Stalin s
nossession mainlv through mv effort* incited Stalin
possession mainly tnrougn my efforts, incited Matin
to a desperate attempt to drive a bargain with Hitler
at all costs Earlv in 1937 such a deal was actuallv
at all costs tarty in Wit suen a deal was actually
pending between Moscow and Berlin.
The record of Stalin’s noliev of anneasement of
TT . , in ® recora or Claims policy or appeasement or
Hitler—both the open and the secret record—reveals
that the more aggressive Hitler grew, both at home and
abroad, the more Stalin pressed his courtship. And
the more strenuous became Stalin’s wooing, the greater
was Hitler s appetite. Every time Hitler struck hard
at Russia, directly or indirectly, Stalin strove the
harder to appease him. .
Hitler s fulminations against Bolshevism were con-
sidered somewhat in the same light as some of oui
own Comintern fulminations against Fascism. They
haci their functions. But they could not change the
basic national interests of the two countries, which
were bound to make for mutual co-operation.
Following the rise of Hitler, Stalin made no effort
to break the secret Berlin-Moscow tie. On the con-
trary, he endeavored to keep it in force as long as
possible. It was Hitler who, during the next three
years, gradually dissolved the intimate links between
the Red Army and the Germany Army. But this
did not discourage Stalin. In fact, it impelled him
more than ever to pursue Hitler’s friendship.
On December 28, 1933, 11 months after Hitler
had become Chancellor, Molotov, speaking before
the Congress of Soviets, reiterated Stalin’s adherence
to the former German policy. Our relations with
Germany have always occupied a distinct place in
international relations. The Soviet Union has no
cause on its part for any change of policy towards
Germany.”
Stalins outstretched hand was still ignored in
Berlin, but he would not be discouraged. Without
changing his basic aim to reach an accord with Hitler,
he decided upon a change of method. Henceforth,
the Soviet Government would appear as an upholder
of the Versailles system, would join the League of
Nations, and even associate with the anti-German
bloc of nations. Stalin felt that such a course would
be enough of a threat to bring Hitler to his senses.
Stalin picked Karl Radek to pave the way for
this somersault. It must be remembered that the
entire Soviet generation had been raised in the belief
that the Versailles Treaty was the most pernicious
instrument ever devised, and that its authors were a
band of pirates. It was no simple task to dress the
Soviet Government as defender of Versailles.
Litvinov went off on a tour of the European capi-
tals, ostensibly in the interests of the so-called Eastern
Locarno pact which was to insure the boundaries of
the nations in Eastern Europe. He visited Geneva,
The world was echoing with reports of the coming
Franco-Russian rapprochement. Radek’s articles had
laid the foundation for the Soviet entry into the League
of Nations.
At this time, Stalin continued doggedly to assert
at the sessions of the Politbureau: “And, nevertheless,
we must come to terms with the Germans.”
Stalin continued simultaneously his two courses
of action. The series of manoeuvres he executed on
the surface is largely a matter of open record. He
consolidated the relations with France by a special
treaty and pressed for an alliance. He ewtered into
a mutual-assistance pact with Czechoslovakia. He
launched the united-front campaign throughout the
world. He had Litvinov inaugurate the crusade for
collective security, designed to align all the great and
small Powers of the world in the defence of the Soviet
Union from German-Japanese aggression. He inter-
vened in Spain in order to forge a closer link with
Paris and London.
All of these moves were intimately connected
with his subsurface operations. Stalin’s underground
manoeuvres had one aim: To anchor his ship of State
in the waters of Germany. No sooner was the Ger-
man-Japanese pact signed than Stalin commissioned
the trade envoy in Berlin, his personal emissary, David
Kandelaki, to exert every effort toward making a deal
with Hitler. At a meeting of the Politbureau held
at this time, Stalin gave the word to all his lieutenants :
“In the nearest future we shall consummate an agree-
ment with Germany,”
In December, 1936, I received orders to apply the
brakes on our secret network within Germany, and
the first months of 1937 passed in expectancy of a
favorable outcome of Kandelaki’s secret negotiations.
But Hitler continued to rebuff Stalin’s advances.
By the end of 1937, with the collapse of the Stalin
plans in Spain and the Japanese invasion of China,
the international isolation of the Soviet Union became
self-evident. Stalin retreated to a position of seeming
neutrality in the rivalry between the two camps of
major Powers in the Old World.
Stalin remained silent during the tremendously
eventful year of 1938, But signs were not wanting
since Munich of a renewal of Stalin’s wooing of Hitler.
On January 12, 1939, there took place before the
entire diplomatic corps in Berlin the cordial and
demonstrative chat of Hitler with the new Soviet am-
bassador. A week later an item appeared in the
London “News-Chronicle” reporting a coming rap-
prochement between Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia.
It was immediately and prominently reprinted, without
comment and without refutation, in the Moscow
“Pravda,” Stalin’s mouthpiece.
On January 25, W. N. Ewer, the diplomatic corre-
spondent of the London “Daily Herald,” leading
British Labor paper, reported that the Nazi Govern-
ment was “now almost convinced that, in the event
of a European war, the Soviet Union would adopt a
policy of neutrality and non-intervention,” and that a
German trade delegation whose “objects are political
rather than commercial” was on the way to Moscow.
Early in February it was disclosed that Moscow
had made a deal to sell its oil only to Italy and Ger-
many and to those nations friendly to Ihe Rome-Berlin
axis, that for the first time in its history the Soviet
Government had stopped the sale of oil to private
foreign corporations, and that the new policy would
provide supplies vital to Italy and Germany in case
of war with Great Britain and France.
Then, on Friday, March 10, 1939, Stalin at last
spoke up for the first time since the annexation of
Austria and of the Sudeten lands by Hitler. He dis-
played remarkable good humor toward Hitler. He
excoriated the democracies for plotting to “poison the
atmosphere and provoke a conflict” between Germany
and Soviet Russia, for which, he said, there were “no
visible grounds.”
Three days after Stalin’s speech, Hitler dismem-
bered Czechoslovakia. Two days later, he extinguished
Czechoslovakia altogether. The world now knows that
such is the price of Chamberlain’s policy of appease-
ment. But what it does not yet fully realise is that this
price is shared also by Stalin’s policy of appeasement.
It follows from the record that Stalin is now play-
ing the Rome-Berlin axis against the London-Paris
axis. Stalin thinks that he will succeed by his policy
in keeping Hitler away from the Ukraine and the rest
of the Soviet Union. Stalin’s predilection has always
been for Germany.
Stalin hopes that he may divert Hitler from the
Ukraine and steer him elsewhere. Stalin wants to
avoid war at any cost. He fears war most. If Hitler
will assure him peace, even at the price of important
economic concessions, he will appease Hitler further
and give him a free hand in all other directions.
Hitler Out-blunders Napoleon.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by
Demaree Bess.)
The German people, however firmly regimented,
possess no more than their proper share of fools and
simpletons. The German people cannot forget that
Hitler declared only last September that he “wanted
no Czechs or other aliens within the Reich.” On
this pretext, he had justified even his harsh treatment
of Jews, saying he wanted to force their emigration
in order to keep the Reich “pure.” We may be sure
that thousands of Germans, persuaded to accept the
Nazi scheme of a united and “purified” Germany,
are utterly bewildered by the repudiation of the whole
Nazi philosophy which characterised the annexation
of Bohemia and Moravia.
By his March move Hitler damaged his regime
in four vital respects: He made it impossible for
British and French statesmen to acquiesce openly any
longer in his eastward expansion ; he solidified the
hostility of the small States of Europe ; he weakened
the loyalty of his own people ; and he provided all his
enemies with a moral issue, clear-cut and unmistak-
able, upon which they might form a powerful coali-
tion against his regime.
Napoleon made mighty blunders, which eventu-
ally brought him to St. Helena, but Napoleon never
made such a blunder as this. At a single stroke, in
three days, the German dictator handed over to his
chief antagonists the moral issue for which they were
desperately searching, and the issue was so sharp and
clear-cut that the British and French nations could
unite upon it and be confident of the moral support
of the entire independent world. By this piece of
incredible stupidity, the Nazi dictator provided the
means for that encirclement of Germany the fear of
which has always haunted him and his associates. If
a trap had been laid for him, and he had walked into
it, he could not have done more to weaken Germany’s
position. But Hitler jumped into a trap which he
himself had laid.
Since Hitler’s rise to power in 1933, a French
historian in a London university, quietly pursuing
careful studies in an atmosphere remote from the
hurly-burly of contemporary politics, has followed
with increasing alarm the course of events in Europe.
With every move which the Nazi dictator made, the
historian thoughtfully consulted the records of the
past, and his concern became more intense. This man
Hitler, by restricting himself to the idea of incorporat-
ing only the people of a single race within one super-
state, seemed to have got hold of a far more logical
and more persuasive idea than all the Napoleons and
would-be Napoleons of the past.
But when Hitler annexed the Czech provinces last
March, the French historian, Nicolas de Mont-neuf,
drew a profound sigh of relief. He sat down and
wrote a letter to an English newspaper which may be
summarised as follows: “At last the familiar pattern
of the past is asserting itself. This Austrian corporal
is not, as he seemed to be, uniquely different from
Napoleon-minded types who preceded him. And now
we see him slipping into that phase which no dic-
tator has yet been able to avoid —namely, the continu-
ance of doing the same thing after the need for doing
it has passed away.”
Napoleon made a similar move after Austerlitz,
when he annexed Austrian land and peoples. And in
1939, by the annexation of two Czech provinces, the
French historian argued that Hitler set his foot at last
upon the path which has led all previous would-be
European conquerors to their destruction.
Japan and Australia.
[This article by Commander Geoffrey Rawson
(Retd.), Melbourne, is condensed from the “National
Review.” having originally appeared in “Pacific Affairs”
(U.S.A.).J
Without a single British battleship operating
beyond Singapore it cannot be claimed that Britain
commands even the fringe of the Pacific. Japan has
nine or ten battleships in these waters and could secure
naval command at any moment. Britain has 15
modern or modernised battleships, five more being
built and two projected, a total of 22 for the next
four or five years. Only then will it be seen whether
Britain will feel strong enough in the West to detach
a battle squadron for permanent service in the East,
based on Singapore and strong enough to prevent
an attack on Australia and New Zealand. This is
rather too distant and indefinite a future to reassure
Australia and New Zealand, which are pressingly con-
cerned with 1939 and 1940 —the “dangerous interval. ’
The British Navy List of August, 1938, shows
the following total British strength in Eastern waters:
the Fifth Cruiser Squadron in China Waters (four
8-inch gun cruisers); the Eighth Destroyer Flotilla
(eight vessels); the Fourth Submarine Flotilla (14
vessels). In addition there is the Australian Cruiser
Squadron of three ships, plus two New Zealand
cruisers. The total combined strength is quite in-
adequate for serious resistance to the Japanese Navy.
All of the cruisers would be obliged to seek safety in
flight and the destroyer and submarine Aofffias would
be overwhelmed. For the present and immediate
Stalin’s Game.
In ’‘Uncabled Additions” of May 10
appeared an article, condensed from the■ ‘‘Satur-
day Evening Post,” in which General W. G
Krivitsky, the one leading Red Army general
to escape the Soviet purge• of 1937, explained
that purge and also held that “Stalin’s policy
has always been friendship with Hitler.”
In another long “Post” article General
Krivitsky expanded on this “friendship” theme,
following out in close detail step by step
Stalin’s repeated attempts over many years to
make favorable arrangements with Germany,
or, at the worst, to keep on the safe side.
The rejection by the Soviet last week of
the pact offer by Britain and France gives
special point to General Krivitsky’s account,
and it is therefore here condensed from the
“Post” ( 29/4/’39 ) under its original heading,
“Stalin Appeases Hitler.”
Because of the extreme length of the original-
article —it would fill out much more than the
whole of these two pages —only the writer’s
general argument is here given. In the original
he ekes it out with columns of conversation
and a wealth of detail supporting his account
of Stalin’s many attempts to “appease” Hitler.
The “Post” published a series of at least four
of these articles, each of them packed with
extraordinary statements, coming from one
with intimate inside knowledge of Soviet affairs.


future Japan commands the Eastern seas. Attack on
Australia and New Zealand could either take the form
of military invasion on a large scale or attack on
trade routes and shipping, blockade and the bombing
and bombardment of ports.
Invasion in force may be discounted. It would
necessitate a gigantic armada of transports, troopships
and “train.” The line of communications would be
long, the effort great and protracted, almost the
entire Japanese merchant fleet would have to be em-
ployed, the strain on Japanese resources and national
fabric would be intolerable, and there would be no
guarantee of ultimate success. The other form of hos-
tile action would be more favorable for Japan. A
portion of its great fleet could isolate Australia.
The Japanese would first have to clear the seas
of British cruisers, whose commanders could not hope
to oppose the Japanese battleships successfully and
would therefore be obliged to evade action. Japan
could thus cut the Australian trade routes at will,
tie up all shipping and blockade the “nodal points”
where overseas and coastal shipping converge. The
complete stoppage of oil imports into Australia would
be a serious deprivation, and in addition Newcastle,
Sydney, Melbourne and other cities would be exposed
to bombing and bombardment.
The sea-borne export and import trade of Aus-
tralia would be suddenly interrupted. Australia de-
pends on exports of wool, wheat, meat, metals and
other products, on which the whole structure of the
Commonwealth is based. Australia could still survive,
however. It could not be starved or forced into sub-
mission within a few months or even a few years.
Except for oil, its economy could be made self-
sufficient. In a prolonged blockade the strain on
Japan would gradually become more serious than on
Australia, because the Japanese vessels, cruisers and
supplies would have to be maintained at war level in
all weathers on the high seas, at great distances from
home bases. Even if Britain or some other Power
were not ultimately able to intervene, the result would
probably be negative, with Australia suffering but not
subdued, ruined but not destroyed.
Australian spirit and morale might be stiffened
and strengthened by the experience, although on the
other hand the devastating effects on the national
structure, especially if Britain were long prevented
from intervening, might be sufficiently depressing to
lead to negotiations between Australia and Japan. In
that case what demands would Japan make? Although
it has never seriously pressed them, Japan has com-
plaints against Australia both in the matter of trade
and in the matter of immigration.
Trade relations have been both friendly and un-
friendly. Japanese bidding at the annual Australian
wool sales helps to keep up the price of wool. Japan
has always bought more from Australia than Aus-
tralia from Japan. On the other hand, the Australian
tariff on Japanese rayon, cotton and other goods is
high. Finally, Australia hopes for an increasing future
market in Japan, the “New China” and other eastern
areas for its export surplus, the principal Australian
export market in Britain having reached the satura-
tion point. Japan might therefore demand a lower
tariff and improved markets for Japanese goods in
Australia, or even an exclusive market.
There remains the fundamental question of
Japanese immigration and settlement in Australia,
which might even involve a demand for the cession of
territory. On this fundamental issue there is no indi-
cation that Australia is likely to yield. “White Aus-
tralia” is the foundation of Australian policy. Not
unless utterly defeated would Australia agree to a
breach in that inviolable law. It is at least conceivable,
however, that a naval blockade might so ruin the
economic fabric and political structure of Australia
that it would be unable to prevent the landing and
settlement of large numbers of Japanese.
A Suggested Policy for Britain.
[ln his new book Security—Can We Retrieve It?,
Sir Arthur Salter, M.P. (Independent representing Ox-
ford University), suggests that the British Government
should publish to the whole world a manifesto setting
forth its policy. His suggestion is for a policy on the
lines laid down in the condensation of his book here
given from London “Daily Herald.”]
We propose to state with complete candor the
British attitude towards the Versailles settlement. As
Germany claims, that settlement was not in any true
sense negotiated but imposed. We fully recognise the
fact that the temporary inferiority of strength of Ger-
many to a combined opposition no longer exists. There
can be no question now of any inequality of status or
of rights. Any remaining injustice and inequality
in the Versailles Treaty provisions should now be
removed.
This does not mean that everything in the Treaty
must now be cancelled. It is obviously impracticable,
and would presumably not be desired by Germany,
that the 1914 political structure of Europe should be
re-established. Germany has already secured the re-
moval of many of the unequal provisions of the
Treaty. Reparation is ended ; there are no unequal
disarmament restrictions or inferiority as regards arma-
ment preparations ; the Rhineland demilitarisation is
ended ; the Saar has returned to Germany. In addi-
tion, Germany has incorporated in the Reich what
was not before within her sovereignty.
These changes may reasonably be taken into
account, as some offset against remaining inequalities
imposed by the Treaty. For what may remain to
complete the account, we are prepared to make a sub-
stantial contribution.
The acceptance of the war-guilt clause by Ger-
many cannot be regarded as a voluntary admission of
responsibility, since Germany had no option but to
sign the Treaty. We are prepared to propose a formal
cancellation of the war-guilt clause.
We recognise that the period of the Versailles
Treaty has ended, and we would assent to the nego-
tiation of a new Treaty and to the formal cancella-
tion of the existing Treaty simultaneously with the
entry into force of the new one. The best procedure
would appear to be that, after a period of negotia-
tions between the principal Powers concerned and
due prior preparation, there should be a World Con-
ference with a view to a European settlement to be
embodied in a new treaty or treaties. In such a con-
ference the opposed belligerents in the last war would
negotiate upon equal terms together with each other
and with countries which were neutral in that war.
At such a conference international trade would
be discussed. We should be willing to co-operate with
Germany in finding methods of meeting her particular
requirements which are adjusted to her economic and
financial system. It is possible that the solution may
be found in part in the recognition of spheres of
special economic influence. We recognise, for
example, the naturally complementary character of
the economic relations of Germany and a number
of the countries in the south-east of Europe.
The part of Germany’s claims which most directly
affects Great Britain is that which relates to colonies.
We propose to discuss the conditions under which we
consider that this problem could be dealt with as part
of a general settlement. Otherwise what is suggested
would be impracticable. Britain would be prepared
to consider allocating certain colonial areas to Ger-
many. She would also favor extending the Mandate
system as widely as possible and not merely confining
it to the pre-war German colonies.
Great Britain and France and the U.S.A. are
democracies, governed through representative institu-
tions. There is no necessity for the pattern of gov-
ernment for all countries to be the same ; and it is
quite possible for countries which are governed under
fundamentally different systems to live together in
peace. The indispensable condition of this, however,
is that each country should deal with the others on the
basis of what is relevant to their foreign relations,
and should refrain from attempts to impose, by
force or by intrigue, their own form of government
upon countries which live under another.
Whilst Great Britain is willing to make offers to
Germany, she cannot make surrenders under menace.
It is evident that if the present competitive race
in armaments continues it must lead to a general war.
No settlement therefore is of any real value unless
it includes a reduction and limitation of armaments.
All the proposals in this announcement are, of course,
dependent upon a settlement which includes this as an
indispensable element.
We consider that the principle of arms limitation
should be, in the broadest terms, that of equality of
strength for countries of comparable status and re-
sources. What is needed is not an impracticable
arithmetical parity, but what may be called a “political
parity”—that is, a sufficient approximation to parity
to give the political result of equality. Each country
should be so strong that it need not fear attack by
any other country. No country should be so strong
that it would feel itself strong enough to attack.
As regards the air, Great Britain would welcome
negotiations (as once suggested by Germany), for
the elimination of bombing aircraft altogether, but
coupled with a suitable control of civil aircraft to pre-
vent substitution.
The British people are pacific, and have, in the
last few years, as in the years that preceded 1914, dis-
played this characteristic in a way which has sometimes
created the illusion that they will yield indefinitely to
a strong menace or even that they have lost some of
their ancient virility. The four years that succeeded
1914 showed how fallacious was any such belief; and
if the test should again be repeated, the same stiffening
of the national will to meet a challenge, the same
determination to carry through to the end, would be
found again.
The Position of the Baltic States.
[Russia rejected the Anglo-French pact proposals
because they “were silent about the defence of the
Baltic countries on Russia’s north-western frontier.”
In the article here condensed from London “Daily
Telegraph,” Wolfram Gottlieb, London correspondent
of Latvian and Lithuanian newspapers, describes the
present situation in those various Baltic States.]
Russia’s reported request to Britain to pledge the
security of Latvia and Estonia is a reminder that the
Baltic States have not been included in the new
Eastern European safety belt because of their policy
of strict neutrality. It is well to remember, however,
that this policy is not of long standing, for it was pre-
ceded by a long period of loyalty to the League of
Nations.
Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia have long realised
that the establishment of an exclusive superiority by
any Power in their regions might become a deadly
threat to their independence. Limited in resources,
with wide open frontiers and coasts, they never felt
able to withstand an enemy single-handed, and there-
fore supported all League action, even at the risk of
being drawn into the conflicts of other nations.
But the melancholy lesson of Geneva’s failure
was not lost on the Baltic countries. The League had
only left them at odds with certain States without
offering the slightest protection. And since, as the
League declined, Germany grew in might and ruthless-
ness, the Baltic republics—with the exception of
Lithuania, which still struggled to keep Memel—de-
cided to avoid any policy that might entail a break
with the Reich.
They knew their territories figured as German on
Nazi maps and that every move in favor of any State
which Berlin chose to regard as unfriendly might lead
to intervention. Similarly it was clear than an align-
ment with Germany might have a dangerous reaction
in Russia. Therefore, finding themselves between these
two fires, they reverted to absolute neutrality.
Certain influential circles in Estonia object to
their country’s having thrown in its lot with the Lat-
vians. They think a German push through the
Baltic would involve Latvia but leave Estonia un-
touched if she remained neutral. But the Estonian
Government sees eye to eye with the Latvian. The
leaders of both countries have lately officially re-
affirmed their military and diplomatic unity.
This unity is likely to be strengthened by the
recent changes in Lithuania’s destiny. Having given
in to Poland and Germany, Lithuania rid herself of
the two intricate problems which separated her from
full solidarity with Latvia and Estonia. All three
countries can now collaborate wholeheartedly, and if
Germany does not succeed in her attempts to force
Lithuania to break away the Baltic Entente may be
regarded as an important bulwark in the east.
Relations with Russia are based on comprehensive
economic agreements and the non-aggression Pacts of
1932, which, in spite of ideological differences, pro-
duced an atmosphere of mutual trust. After the
annexation of Memel by Germany, an informal ex-
change of views took place between Latvia and Estonia
on the one hand and Moscow on the other. It is
obvious that Russia, if Germany pushes further into
the Baltic, cannot maintain the role of a complacent
observer, but will have to defend the States which are
her natural bulwark.
Officially Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania profess
not to be afraid of Germany. Yet every responsible
person feels that, if danger comes, it wifi come from
Germany. After Czechoslovakia a feeling of pessim-
ism seized the Baltic countries, and they had to re-
orientate their policy. And this meant a tendency to
come to terms with Berlin.
It could not be otherwise while the West held
aloof, while Russia was isolated and Warsaw’s position
undecided. But as soon as Poland ceased to “sit on
the fence” the Baltic situation was changed. Poland,
the third great neighbor of the three small States, is of
decisive importance. A Poland friendly to Germany
spelt doom for them, since Poland might demand all
their great ports as compensation for giving up Dan-
zig and the Corridor. But when Warsaw definitely
rallied to the West and began further negotiations with
Russia, the position of the Baltic States was radically
improved.
This is where the new British guarantee comes
in. London’s assistance will naturally stiffen Polish
resistance to Berlin. When Col. Beck, the Polish
Foreign Secretary, was in England, my principal in-
quiry was how far the new position affected the
Baltic States. The answer was that the British guaran-
tee would hold good not only if Poland fought for the
defence of her territory, but also if she fought to
defend her vital interests. The Baltic region, the only
large frontier the Poles have, except with Russia, which
is not controlled by Germany, is a vital Polish interest.
In case of an attack, the Poles would have to defend
it at once, even without previous arrangements to that
effect.
At New York World’s Fair.
(From an article by London “Times” New York .
correspondent.)
The largest pavilion Great Britain has yet had
at a foreign exhibition stands at the New York World’s
Fair. The building solidly fills about 170,000 sq. ft.,
if the parts occupied by Australia, New Zealand and
the Colonial Empire are included.
This size is in just proportion to the expanse of
the Fair —3| miles long and \\ miles wide. The
pavilion stands on the Lagoon of Nations and near
the Court of Peace. The Court of Peace accommo-
dates 50,000 persons, and for six months will be the
centre of lavish ceremony and continuous celebration.
It is given out that about 2,000,000 children will
be going to the fair. A world of their own awaits
them. Also something new in fan dancing and its
allied arts.
In the American way of piling statistic on statistic,
we are told that 15,000,000 visitors will come to New
York for the fair, that they will spend in the city the
giganltic sum of one billion dollars, and that
$250,000,000 of this amount will go on entertainment
alone. Anyone who can imagine £50,000,000 being
spent just on entertainment in London by visitors to
one spectacle lasting seven or eight months will appre-
ciate the optimism of this forecast.
It is said further that $155,000,000 has been in-
vested by all concerned/and that New York City’s
share is $20,000,000. This last is a little less than the
sum considered to have been spent by the exhibiting
foreign Governments, which number more than 60 in
all, including the League.
The Fair Corporation itself claims to have spent
some $50,000,000, and expects to be recouped by about
20,000,000 persons paying for three visits to take in
all that the vast grounds contain. Ordinary adult
admission is about 75 cents (35.) a head, though reduc-
tions for tickets bought in books are available. The
price of admission will seem high to people abroad,
but is in keeping with general expenses in New York.
Mass Opinion.
As it strikes London “Daily Express,” whose
foreign policy for Britain is that it “doesn’t want
alliances with anybody”:—
The people all want to march in step with
Stalin, so march it is. We have a nation of
47 million foreign secretaries. Their voice will
prevail.
“Slumkey for ever!” roared the crowd.
“Slumkey for ever !” echoed Mr. Pickwick.
“Who is Slumkey?” whispered Mr. Tup-
man.
“I don’t know,” replied Mr. Pickwick.
“Hush. Don’t ask any questions. It’s always
best on these occasions to do what the mob
does.”
“But suppose there are two mobs ?” sug-
gested Mr. Snodgrass. “Shout with the largest,”
replied Mr. Pickwick.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES VOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Autumn still lingers in Sydney, and the
A.J.C. had an excellent crowd at War-
wick Farm ; secretary Rowe estimated it
at 10,000. Course and surroundings were
in excellent order; the track was so
fast that Jocular cut the Farm record
for seven furlongs to 1.25 - in the
George’s River Handicap.
Jocular could never win for Harold
Cooper, but Sydney businessman E. R.
Williams has found the Queensland-bred
brown a good proposition since he
bought Cooper’s half-interest —they raced
the nag in partnership for a time. Jocu-
lar has scored three times in the Williams
colors —at Rosebery, Rosehill and War-
wick Farm. There was no fluke about
his win on Saturday, and the price was
eights. Though he had a bad position
at the barrier, McCarten got him away
well, kept him in third place to the top of
the straight and then let him go. In the
result, Jocular easily held off Disalto,
Rummage, who came fast, being a close
third. Moaveil was in a cranky mood,
and was sent to the outside from No. 2
position. She finished fifth, just behind
Grey Derby, the favorite, who was
blocked in the straight. Benburb was
fourth.
Legion Bird, from Rylstone, did the
bookmakers a good turn when he won
the Homestead Handicap at 20 to 1. A
five-year-old chestnut gelding, nothing to
look at, he is owned and trained by A. J.
Holt, a miner, who contrives to train
horses and work in a Kandos pit as well;
and his condition was a credit to Holt.
But Gold Spark would have won if young
Lappin hadn’t been so anxious to head
the pacemaker, Cheery Jack. O’Sullivan,
Legion Bird’s rider, let the pair race
themselves to a standstill, and when
Gold Spark beat off Cheery Jack she had
nothing in reserve. Legion Bird beat
her cleverly by a head, with Will Rogers
a length away and Vestal fourth.
Ezra Norton’s good-looking English
horse Amaranthus was backed like a cer-
tainty for the Welter Handicap—from
threes to 7 to 4. He was no certainty,
and his backers got many thrills. Morn-
ing Gift had such a commanding lead at
the top of the straight that defeat seemed
out of the question. But Amaranthus,
who was ridden by Hughes, went in
pursuit of the runaway from the Leger ;
he responded gamely to the whip, and
struggled home by a neck. Flamari was
two lengths back third. Evidently
Amaranthus requires to be ridden
patiently. In previous races he was
bustled from the start, and weakened in
the run home.
F. W. Hughes, who took up racing
late in life:, must be making his hobby
pay. At the Farm he won a double with
the two-year-olds Opportunist and Good
Morning. Opportunist cost him 55
guineas, Good Morning 800 guineas.
Opportunist has won two events and
Good Morning four. In the colts and
geldings’ division of the Nursery Oppor-
tunist, a plain-looking gelding by Bara-
long-Orient Star, scored comfortably
from Hole in One and Billposter. He
started at twos, and the price would
have been much shorter but for the
backing of El Valor, who was anchored
by his 9.3.
In the fillies’ division Good Morning
odds receded from twos to 9 to 2,
although her owner was confident. In-
stead of leading, as she had done at
Canterbury, the filly was held in behind
the pacemakers. She shot away in the
last furlong, and the Winooka filly
Merry Smile, who was badly handi-
capped at 9.7, could not get on terms.
Deanna, owned by pastoralist Haley, was
third. Her six supporters on the pad-
dock and Leger totes got £33 Bs. 6d. (for
10s.) and £l6 os. 6d. respectively.
Walgett prevailed in the Amateur
Cup; the owner and the trainer of
the winner, Sir Lorient (12 to 1),
and the rider, all Webers, belong
to that district. The runner-up was
Wild Oats, an Albury galloper, and
Chunuma and General Monash ran a
dead-heat for third. Sir Lorient’s jockey
is Ken Weber, who won the amateur
event on Sir Land at Randwick and who
could get plenty of riding if he turned
pro., but the lad —he is only 16—says he
won’t. Sir Lorient was soon in front,
and dashing away at the home turn, with
young Weber sitting still, he beat the
spun-out Wild Oats by nearly a length.
The distance was six furlongs. Some of
the amateurs —there were 17—wish it
had been six miles.
* * :fc
This Page selected Pooley Bridge to
win the York Hurdle at Flemington last
Saturday. “Bert” Foulsham’s gallant old
gelding fulfilled his task in grand style.
Lumping 12st. 21b. on a track made very
heavy by recent rain, Pooley Bridge ran
past Dornford and Restford at the final
flight.
Later in the afternoon it took The
Trump 2min. 14|sec. to cover \\ miles
on the flat; course record is 2min. 2sec.
Pooley Bridge set 3min. 49|sec. for two
miles over hurdles; course-record time
is 3min. 34isec.
Compare these figures and it will be
found that there was no loitering at any
stage of the York Hurdle. After using
up energy to overhaul the leaders, Pooley
Bridge naturally began to tire, and Mc-
Kee had to ride him out to stall off the
strong-finishing Cape Race.
The York Hurdle was regarded as so
open that Pooley Bridge shared favorit-
ism with Kevastar and Green Cape at 6
to 1 in a field of 11. Kevestar jumped
erratically and cut his near foreleg by
striking a hurdle. Green Cape dropped
back at the mile, but improved towards
the finish.
Koke King, who had been favorite for
the G. N. Hurdle in doubles, beat only
one rival. According to Ron Sweetnam
he showed no confidence in the early part
of the jumping. Opinion of trainer Torr
is that the horse needs sharpening up.
Stable outlook was reflected by 20 to 1
being on offer.
Last winter, when trained by F. G.
Doran, Restford started favorite for the
Grand National, but acquitted himself
poorly. Now in the stable of Fullarton,
who rode him on Saturday, the half-
brother to Yarramba —runner-up to Peter
Pan in the Melbourne Cup of 1932 —
may be Fullarton’s elect on the first
Saturday in July.
At fours, Deckard (Lanius-Pistilla)
was a point better favorite than Giant
Killer and Brightello for the Hopetoun
Steeple. Except for a blunder opposite
the stand, he jumped faultlessly and
romped home in front of Firewood and
Shere Khan.
It may be too early to assert that Bill
Burke has erred as a trainer in switching
Green Cape to hurdling and Giant Killer
to ’chasing. These horses failed in their
new roles. Giant Killer got round safely
in the Hopetoun Steeple, but was un-
impressive.
On Saturday’s form Deckard is logical
first choice for the Grand National
Steeple, in which he was defeated 12
months ago by Green Cape. A fly in
the ointment is that the Lanius gelding
fell on three occasions in his last six
starts before Saturday’s success.
Carbine blood, so prized by breeders,
crops up in the pedigree of Deckard. His
dam, Pistilla, is by St. Spasa (imp.) from
Pistol Belle, by Pistol, an imported son
of “Old Jack.” Farther back We find
Astarte (sister to Richmond) and
Melesina {ancestress of Wallace, Melos,
Uncle Sam and Peter Pan).
Winner of the middle-distance Sand-
ringham Handicap at eights, The Trump
met with a great reception. This midget
wonder scored in something approaching
his 1937 form. The Rothsay Handicap
victory of The Progeny wasn’t popular
with flatites, who could not reconcile it
with his Valley failure a week before.
The Progeny again started a pro-
nounced favorite, 5 to 2 being the closing
quote. Apparently suited by the Fleming-
ton track, he won in runaway fashion.
Toscanini (eights) and Considerate (sixes)
filled the minor places. Archie Crofts’s
Lo Zingaro colt Romany Chief showed
vast improvement by running a close
fourth.
A Ballarat-trained filly, The Decora-
tion is a sprinting “find.” Well backed
at 11 to 2, she made her Royal Handicap
opponents look cheap, reaching the judge
lengths in advance of Kanuri, with Stoic
a moderate third. Keelie (3 to 1, favorite)
was unsighted over the last half of the
journey.
Squeezed back soon after the start of
the Buckingham Handicap, Gladstone let
his army of backers down by floundering
in the soft going and finishing only sixth.
Gallant Lad (sevens) won comfortably
from Carry Over and Lord Syce. A
Devonshire colt, he belongs to F. P.
Smith, of the V.R.C. committee, and E.
A. Underwood, proprietor of the
Warlaby stud.
* * * *
Harry Torr has engaged Ron Sweet-
nam to ride Koke King in the Grand
National Hurdle. Last year the Stand
By gelding was piloted by W. Smith, a
veteran jockey who had been associated
with his South Australian victories.
Sweetnam is having a very successful
season as a jumping rider, and Torr con-
siders that his vigorous methods will suit
Koke King.
Since his wonderful “spin” in 1923-4
with Wynette, who captured the Caulfield
Cup, Williamstown Cup and Adelaide
Cup, Torr has had a somewhat lean time
as trainer. For the most part Harry de-
voted himself to gallopers. Minterne
passed through his hands in that role
before being educated by Jack Sing as
a ’chaser.
Minterne was such an outstanding per-
former over fences that J. A. MacLeod
and his friend Lempriere—both of whom
have passed away—could not resist an
offer of over £3OOO made by a Sydney
owner. In the new colors he failed re-
peatedly. Acquired afterwards at a bar-
gain price by the late J. H. Trenoweth,
he landed the Australian Steeplechase,
then run over a distance of four miles,
with list. 101b-
* "C * *
Charley Quinn went cold on the offer
he made to take £4OO for Beau Placid
after that son of Beau Fils had won the
steeplechase at Moonee Valley on May
27- When approached by a prospective
buyer Quinn put up his price.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: It is easy to start an
argument in a company of Australian
racing men who have visited India during
the last 18 months or so by declaring
that Ajax is a better horse than Finalist,
or vice versa. Each horse has his hot
adherents among Australians who have
seen both, and as the question of superi-
ority is never likely to be decided on a
racecourse the argument will go on. In
any case, the comparison is by no means
unflattering to Ajax. Before he went to
India, Finalist had a first-class reputation
in England, having won there the
Britannia Stakes at Ascot, the Newbury
Spring Cup, the Newmarket Select Stakes
and the Goodwood Chesterfield Cup, and
having been handicapped at 9.10 in the
Lincolnshire. His successes in India in-
clude the Hughes Memorial Plate, the
King-Emperor’s Cup, the Viceroy’s Cup
and the Wellesley Plate. Rising seven
by English time, Finalist is by the Eng-
lish Winalot-Finery, by Pommern-
Santa Fina, by St. Frusquin-Grigg.
Santa Fina, the Wellington “Dominion”
recalls, was a sister to St. Anton, who
sired many good horses in South Aus-
tralia, and whose descendants are racing
with success on the flat and over sticks
and big timber.
* * * <:
Mick Poison hasn’t had a good horse
in his Randwick stable since Winooka
was retired to the stud, but he has an
apprentice jockey whom every other
Randwick trainer would like to have on
his premises—Lappin. Though still only
an urchin, Lappin has everything that a
high-class jockey requires—a cool head,
good hands, an easy seat, judgment of
pace and ability to ride a punishing finish.
During the week which ended on May
27, Lappin, riding on four days, was on
eight winners, and in each case he had,
as it were, to study the idiosyncrasies of
the animal. At Canterbury Park his
mounts were Politesse and Cable Boy.
Politesse has been left at the barrier as
often as not. In the Park Stakes at Can-
terbury she was on her toes, and it looked
as if she would be left again, but Lappin
got her away first on the outside, shifted
to the rails when she was the required
two lengths ahead, kept her there and
was never passed. In the Ashbury Stakes
he had to cope with the problem of a
slug who is very awkward in a field.
That meant that he had to nurse Cable
Boy and keep him for a final run ; and
this the lad did admirably, his timing
being perfect. Old hands at Randwick
are already comparing him with the
young Jimmy Pike. Strange as it may
seem nowadays, Pike was about the
smallest boy that ever got a start as a
Randwick jockey. Lappin is a sturdier
youngster, but may not grow so tall.
* $ *
St. Constant is beginning to gallop well
at Randwick in preparation for his
Queensland engagements. Spear Chief
has never shown quite his best form at
Doomben, and people who know that
course are doubtful whether it will suit
St. Constant, with his long late run which
has answered so well at Rosehill and
Randwick. Anyway, indications are that
the pound horse will lack nothing on
the score of condition ; and, though he
has failed as a stayer, the Doomben Cup
distance, a mile and three furlongs, is
well within his compass.
(Continued on page 32.)
“Mundowie”: One of the much-talked-
of feats of years ago, which no one
attempts these times, was jumping the
crosscut saw with the teeth upwards.
There were plenty who, over an ordinary
bar, could top the height of the freak
jumpers, but few had nerve enough to
tackle the bristling steel teeth. At a sports
meeting held at Hendon, on the Darling
Downs (Q.), one St. Ledger backed him-
self to jump the saw at sft. lOin. Before a
big crowd the grim-looking hurdle was set
up and safely negotiated. The height
was not a record, for in the ’nineties a
Croydon (Q.) miner and all-round athlete
named Chapman cleared the saw teeth
at 6ft. —another wager-inspired leap
which stood for years until an abo.
whose name I have forgotten, but who
also belonged to Croydon, beat it by
clearing the saw at 6ft. 2in. Though
these are days of record-smashing, no
one has tried to beat that one.
* * =P
“J.W.S.”: “Bumpkin’s” reference (B.
10/5/’39) to the mass singing of Welsh
football crowds recalls two instances. 1
was deputy-captain of the 1905 All
Blacks, and line umpire the day Wales in-
flicted on them their only defeat. When
the Welshmen, led by Gwyn Nicholls (he
died just a few weeks ago), preceded the
Maorilanders on to the area on Cardiff
Arms Park 50,000 Welshmen rose as one,
and burst into the anthem, “Land of my
Fathers, Land of the Free,” with a volume
like a huge organ. It was spontaneous,
yet the singing could not have been ex-
celled had it been rehearsed. Whether
it contributed to our licking I can’t say,
but it may have. Years later I was lead-
ing a Maori team against a province in
the far south of M.L. We were eight
points down and ten minutes to go when
a group of wahines, sitting on the high
bank of an enclosing cycle-track, sud-
denly struck up a lilting melody from the
haka “Be brave.” The effect was magical
in its results on my Maoris, and we made
a draw of it.
FOR MELBOURNE EVENTS.
WILLIAMSTOWN.
Spotswood Trial: Carry Over ;
next, Hartigan.
Port Phillip Hurdle: Dornford ;
next, Davanthus.
Point Cook Handicap: Panax;
next, Mutable,
Esplanade Welter: Gladstone;
next, Somerset.
FLEMINGTON.
Royal Steeple: Mustella ; next,
Grantley.
Birthday Handicap: Dignitary ;
next, The Trump.
Lancaster Handicap: Bow Tie ;
next, Stoic. .
Cornwall Handicap: Gladstone;
next, Somerset.
FOR RANDWICK.
Amateur Cup: Sir Land ; next,
Wild Oats.
A.J.C. Hurdle: Cheery Jack;
next, Frassadale.
June Plate: Disalto; next,
Tolerant.
Ellesmere Handicap: Amaran-
thus or Head Check ; next, Gold
Spark.
June Novice: Politesse or
Trumpeter.
Botany Handicap: Amaranth us
or Hybol.
Exeter Handicap: Amaranthus
or Morning Gift.
Winter Plate: Hilarious or Gold
Spark.


before
• •• -wwav^v..• •' •■ ■•> -•■ ;•<■"■• .., w ...,.,..„ r^;
•, - ! k 4 /M I,;. t ' * ? C '' 0 U
s >m > xssssm m s $Wm , > - ' ™ $ ps % - > - §|g M%
’
C/3
iliiiiiiiiiiiiil
ai
C/3
Ml
■ww a.obo w»o jfoT 1 WWiW^
rfdl |>J
U-*
■ <
e/5
Sf-l
m
m
co
wmmmmm
'll
w ~
Br HU
or?
"fW
&
H
a**
tJ! I
-ft
■mm
m
'
m <rs
s e
H
I
O
03
■S
03
*3r
03
o?
Ml
■7
<5l
>
<
¥
I
vn
m
s <D
> 3
MODEL 2240
(At left)
For World-Wide Reception
Available in similar design
MODEL 1044 —BATTERY O PER ATI
23 Gns.
< o
>
£
<
_ "S O
00
O
o
m <d C7l
K>
>
m a
The Symbol
of Qualify!
OBTAINABLE FROM
PHILIPS ACCREDITED RETAILERS IN
CITIES, SUBURBS & COUNTRY TOWNS
PHILIPS
IT'S a thrill in store for YOU ! New Tonal Realism . . .
Greater Sensitivity and Selectivity . . . Super Efficient
Circuits . . . New "Legi-line" Tuning.
Why not buy a new Philips Radioplayer and give your-
self and your family the thrill of Philips "NEW
LISTENING"? It makes the most of every minute in
radio programme ... both from Australian and Overseas
stations.
Remember Radioplayers are backed by the biggest
name in radio PHILIPS.
wadlfphlfeM
THE MAKERS OF THE FAMOUS PHILIPS LAMPS AND VALVES
Advt. of Philips Lamps (A / asia) Ply., Ltd. (.Head Office), 69-73 Clarence Street.
9R21


MERCHANDIS
ĵ
j
Comprising General
Samples, Textiles, Office
E<j« i p m ent, Furniture,
Spurts Goods, Photo-
graphic, Engineering and
Building Fairs.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL
WILL BE EXHIBITED.
If you buy for future reselling ... if your business depends upon the
latest in mechanical equipment ... if you are engaged in any phase of
commercial enterprise . . . then Leipzig Trade Fair is necessary to
your success.
Twice yearly 10,000 manufacturers from 23 countries assemble in this
historical German city to meet the demands of a quarter of a million
purchasers from all parts of the world.
LEIPZIG
INTERNATIONAL
INDUSTRIES
*■ JK I B
I* AI K
COMMENCES AUGUST 27th, 1939.
Information (including Travel Marks and Aski Trading Marks) and
Letters of Introduction available of Lars G. Brundahl, Commissioner in
Australia . for the Leipzig Trade Fair. Challis House, Martin Place,
G P.O Box 3127 P. Sydney; C. N. Keppel, Temple Court, 422 Collins
Street, Melbourne; J. M. Beiers, 305 Queen Street, Brisbane;
11. C. Ittershagen, Shenton Park, West Australia.
Australians are always welcome in Greater Germany.
j
J! child can do it!
The Kismet Foot Pump is no muscie-
builder in fact, it isn’t even exercise!
A simple foot’ pressure operates the
double-cylinder (supercharger) action to
put a double charge of air into the tyre
at each stroke. Twice the air in half the
time means only a few minutes to inflate
all four tyres. You check them accurately
with the built-in Kismet' Gauge.
PRICE 95/-.
KISMET
2 CYLINDER-2 STAOt
FOOT PUMP
Factory Representative in Australia
JOHN ARNOLD,
G.P.O. BOX 71,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
Made by a famous firm of pneumatic engineers—built
to rigorous standards of precision to give many years
of easy, exact service. Judge for yourself —at
your dealer’s.
WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENG.
Under the Whip
Writing to a relative before the Vic-
torian jumping season opened in 1938,
“Jerry” Moloney, the Western District
trainer, pronounced Mustella to be a
better horse than Belar, with whom he
captured the Grand National Hurdle of
1933 in the record time of smin. 29|sec.
for three miles over the battens.
Mustella did not immediately impress
as a ’chaser in metropolitan company,
but Moloney exercised patience, and at
the last Melbourne Cup meeting Mustella
romped home in the J. A. MacLeod
Steeple, setting 4min. 46sec. for 2\ miles
—half a second slower than the course
record. Now rising six years old and
thoroughly seasoned, Mustella is favorite
for the second “leg” of the Grand
National double.
Methuen has come pretty strongly into
Grand National Hurdle discussions, de-
spite the warning issued by his trainer,
Alex. Fullarton, that the Queensland-bred
gelding may not start. Fullarton’s fear
that Methuen isn’t seasoned enough at
four years does not hold water. Red-
leap, Fossil, Obi, Fiscom, Pildin and
Longlands won at that age. The Yeo-
man scored for S. G. Cook in 1887 when
only three years.
“Take it, Bill!”
Tasmanian-owned Lord Lytton (Ver-
bius-Oakdene) directed attention to his
Grand National prospects by annexing
the Hurdle Race at Dowling Forest, Bal-
larat, on Wednesday with great ease.
_ ' '
Baanya, who finished third to Belar
in the National Hurdle of
1933, was the best Tasmanian represen-
tative since Bribery, winner in 1907. Bay
Eagle credited S. M. Wilson, Hobart
newspaper proprietor, with the G.N.
Steeple of 1902.
Melbourne turf scribes tipped P. G.
Hay, the Richmond brewer, to win a
treble at Ballarat. Prime Seal was with-
drawn from the steeplechase, Wick ran
unplaced in a division of the Novice
Handicap and The Card had to be con-
tent with third honors in the Flying
HunHiran
• P ' • • • •
Guy Raymond, of the V.R.C. com-
rnittee, and H. R. Ranken, his partner
in the St. Albans stud, won the Forest
Handicap at Ballarat with Rose Princess,
a three-year-old sister to Balkan King,
who was third in Wotan’s Melbourne
Cup. Second favorite at 5 to 2, she
scored with a lot in hand from Santa
Anita and Du Maurier.
* * * *
“Lespy”: “I’m puttin’ in pipes up at
the cemertree one time,” said old Ben
the handyman, “an’ a funeral comes
erlong—it’s a racin’ bloke they’re
plantin’. I see a coupla fellers ’angin’
erbout there and I gits maggin’ to ’em.
They tells me the turf joker was a friend
o’ theirs ; they useter work fer ’im on
the racecourses. Tick-tackers they were
—them blokes wot waves their arms
erbout to signal the odds. We knocks
orf when the service is on, and I’m
standin’ close to the coves. The dead
bloke was in one o’ them lodges, 'cos
there’s lots o’ birds wearin’ collars and
aprons and things. At the end o’ the
service the ’ead bloke starts makin’
queer passes with ’is ’ands, and I ’eard
one o’ the tick-tackers say, ‘Blimey,
’Arry, there’s odds fer you!—’e’s fifty
ter one! ’ ”
M.Q. and Rafferty
Young Too Hot for Hall
Such doubts as remained after the first
meeting of Joe Hall and the American-
Chinese scrapper Kui Kong Young were
most conclusively dissolved in their- en-
counter at Sydney Arena last week. Kui
put it all over Joe.
The choice bit of China is a terrific
puncher; a southpaw with a deadly left
h and- j n their first engagement he ripped
j t j nto j oe ’ s tummy, bending him double
and ou ting him; and it was distressingly
ev jdent that Joe remembered. He tried
to keep away from it, and for the first
round succee ded. After that it was a
grievous exhibition.
At die beghmi of the second Kui got
IS n P home, and a heavy right to
the jaw. Another left to the body, and
J° e was m , tr £ u V e * He h un S ? n >
coasted, and had recovered a bit, when
a left-hook dropped him in his corner
He got up at nine, sidestepped, and
moved out to mid-ring. There he man-
aged to hold Kui off for a while, but
another charging attack made him beat
a retreat, and just as the ropes stopped
him from going on and perhaps out to
sea, a long left-hook reached his jaw.
Down he went again, and nothing seemed
more certain than that he was going to
stay there, when the bell clanged.
His corner rushed out and gathered
him up. They lifted him bodily and
carted him back, poured bottles of water
over him, massaged him and pummelled
him. So’ they got him ready for some
more of what he couldn’t take.
He came into the centre of the ring and
made a clinch of it. Kui thereupon rab-
bited him, and was reprimanded by the
ref., but it was inoffensive tapping. Sepa-
rated, Joe was seen to be in desperate
straits. He had given up all idea of fight-
ing, was moving away, trying to keep out
of trouble. Nothing could have better
suited Kui. Another peach of a left-hook
crumpled Joe. Then a left rip appeared
to hit him in the ribs. It didn’t look
much of a punch ; also, Joe was moving
away when it landed ; but, nevertheless,
down he went, and out.
Kui (Bst. 71b.) gave him half a stone,
seemed to have the edge on him properly
and made him look child’s-play. Joe’s
showing must be put down as pitiful to
witness, but that must not detract from
Kui’s performance. This dandy little
fighter has now won all his seven or eight
Arena scraps, and had never fought better
than on this occasion. He fairly flung
himself into the fray. He was sure of
himself, game, and pretty to watch.
Miller Beaten
The night Hall bit the dust also saw
Micky Miller, Australian bantam and
featherweight champ., very easily beaten
by another topnotch import, the pocket
American negro Jackie Wilson. In recent
fights Miller has given the impression of
having had enough of stoushing. At his
fighting top he’s right up to the best of
them, but when the mood against fight-
ing is on him he’s not of much account.
He made occasional attempts to mix it
with Wilson, but Jackie was too fly for
him.
t- * * *
“T.”: Australia has a promising crop
of welterweights, among them Alan
Westbury, of Newcastle, • who has
whipped Bennell, Purcell and Cook,
the former Olympic representative;
lan Ellis, of Melbourne, who has
a nice style, and Ern Clingham, a
smart, well-set-up Sydney lad, who has
knocked over nearly 30 opponents in
short order. In fact, there are so many
welterweights about that the best of them
are getting plenty of practice. This neces-
sary part of the education of accom-
plished boxers was overlooked in past
years, one result being that youngsters
who were novices by American standards
were billed as champions and served up
to be slaughtered by experienced foreign-
ers. Old Bill Squires is taking an interest
in Westbury. Bill himself would have
been a better fighter if he had done a lot
more boxing in his young days. When
Bill went to California in 1907, Barney
Reynolds, who managed the adventure
for Wren, Was advised by shrewd heads
that Bill knew nothing about infighting,
and Barney engaged a skilful ’Frisco
lightweight to teach him. “He wouldn’t
be taught,” Barney groaned in a letter
to his patron. “He wanted to be the
teacher.”
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The old argu-
ment as to whether the proper place for
a referee is inside or outside the ring has
been revived. The London National
Sporting Club sticks to its tradition of
outside, but I’ve seen some dirty work
done there which escaped even Eugene
Corri’s eagle eye. It was always brought
off when the offender had manoeuvred
himself and opponent so as to have his
own back full on to the referee’s chair.
Olympic and Empire amateur contests
also see the ref. outside, but leave the
decision to three judges, each seated on
one of the other sides. The same system
will be used at the Australian tests for
Olympic selection. The referee can dis-
qualify any contestant who disobeys his
spoken orders or commits a foul, in his
opinion, deliberately. After a fair ex-
perience of each method, I plump un-
hesitatingly for beside the boxers as the
only place from which to get a clear view
of everything that goes on, clean, dirty,
or accidental.
Sarron, who was featherweight cham-
pion before Armstrong and a few
months after beating him the negro had
captured the lightweight and welter-
weight titles —wants to revisit Maoriland
during the Exhibition period. He was
there nine years ago, and though he had


VICTORIA RACING CLUB
GRAND NATIONAL
STEEPLECHASE MEETING,
1939
General entries CLOSE on TUESDAY, June IS,
1539, at 3 p.m. at the offices of the V.R.C., Mel-
bourne, A.J.C., Sydney, S.A.J.C., Adelaide, W.A.T.C.,
Perth, QT.C., Brisbane, 0.J.C., Christchurch, W.R.C.,
Wellington, A.R.C., Auckland, D.J.C., ■ Dunedin,
T.R.C., Hobart, and T.T.C., Launceston.
First Day—Saturday, July 1, 1939.
MAIDEN HURDLE RACE, two miles £4OO
MYROSS HANDICAP, six furlongs (for two-
year-olds) £5OO
KENSINGTON STEEPLECHASE, about two
miles and half a furlong £5OO
WINTER HANDICAP, one mile and a half . . £5OO
IRAMOO HANDICAP, seven furlongs £5OO
Second Day—Wednesday, July 5, 1939.
KEILOR HURDLE RACE, two miles £5OO
LA4VN HANDICAP, six furlongs £5OO
GEORGE WATSON HUNTERS’ CUP, about
two miles and half a furlong £2OO
and a half (lowest handicap weight 9st.) £4OO
GOOPARLE HANDICAP, one mile £5OO
BRAYBROOK HANDICAP, one mile and
a quarter £5OO
Third Day—Saturday, July 8, 1939.
DOUTTA QALLA HURDLE RACE, two miles
and a quarter £5OO
THE TWO-YEAR-OLD MILE, one mile £5OO
TRIAL HURDLE RACE, two miles £4OO
FOOTSCRAY STEEPLECHASE, about two
miles and half a furlong £5OO
JUL\ HANDICAP, one mile (lowest handicap
weight 7st.) £5OO
All Entries to be accompanied by £l.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary, V.R.C.
TB
fQ*
MADE'IN
EFFIELD, E
j
FREE! !
A SAMPLE OF
RE-NU
LIQUID
NU-METAL.
Write, ’Phone.
Just deposit tnrougn pius noies; reum-
ditions any engine while-U-drive. Saves
re-bore, ends piston slap, oil, petrol
waste; restores compression, new power,
top-speed, zip, etc. Guaranteed for 10,000
miles. Harmless finest engine. TRIAL
TUBE, 6/6; or we send C.O.D. or install
anywhere. Anyone can use Nu-Metal.
Advice, Literature—free. KE-NC, LTD.,
Opp. Richmond Stn., Melbourne. J 4797
(est. 1932). Agents required. 70 other
lines. Free samples.
Open Late Friday Nights.
BEFORE
V\* e
&
a*®
ts
Better, quicker way
to clean false teeth
‘My plates were getting quite black but after
the first rinsing with ‘Steradent’ they changed
back to the normal colour they were when new.
As for the teeth they certainly look a picture.
F. 8., London.
Fill the cap of the tin with 'Steradent’
and pour the powder into a glass containing
sufficient warm water (not hot) to cover the
dentures. Stir well. Put in your dentures and
leave them while you dress or overnight. Take
them out and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
The cleaning is complete.
Stains vanish. The denture gums are
made wholesome. Dingy, yellow teeth become
'live,’ lustrous, natural-looking. 'Steradent
penetrates into the tiniest crevices, removing
every last particle of decomposed food which a
brush could never reach. Your plate is purified,
cool, smooth to the tongue, refreshed. 'Stera-
dent’ is harmless to dental materials. Price 2/-,
Double Size 3/6. At all chemists.
TRIAL OFFER: Send 2d. in stamps
for trial supply to Reckitts (Over Sea)
Ltd., Box 2515 8.8., G.P.0., . Sydney,
and mention the name of this paper.
Steradent
RECD. TRADE MARK
cleans and sterilise s false teeth
A
o*
hi
y
BURMAN’S NEW MODEL ENCLOSED
CEAR-TYPE POWER HORSE CLIPPER
A great favorite here and in England.
Very powerful and strongly constructed. All spindles are
supported on roller bearings.
The clipping head is carried on a spiral flexible shaft 5 ft.
9in. long.
Surpasses all others.
Price complete . . .
61/6
Horse hand shears
12/9 pr.
SEND FOR ONE.
PHONE M 6505 (16 LINE'S) LATE SHOPPING. FRIDAY. 810 PM.
JOHN DANKS AND SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED (INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA I
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
’PHONE: M 6505.
’PHONE: M 2381.
carried all before him in Australia he
fost three decisions to Tommy Donovan
-one on a foul. As he was probably as
200 d then as when he became the leading
“fedder ” a potential world champion
was lost in Donovan, whom we never
saw in Australia, and who did not stay
long in the game. Sarron is of Syrian
extraction, like a number of very good
footballers in Sydney.
Foofbrawl
Richmond has lost a match at last.
Collingwood did the job on Richmond’s
ground, and did it handsomely—by 89
to 53 (12-17 to 6-17). As a result the
Tigers tumbled from their position at
the top of the table to a crowded third
place just below Melbourne and ’Wood.
The three clubs are level in competition
points, but Melbourne leads on percent-
ages. Melbourne put up the day’s highest
tally (122 points) against Fitzroy, but
found ’Roy tough—l B-14 to 14-15.
St. Kilda makes up “the four,” one
win behind the others. The Saints de-
feated “Sowth” 13-17 to 8-14. Carlton
overcame Essendon, but had anxious
moments; goals were even, 10-18 to
10-12. Geelong returned to the list
of winners at the expense of North,
17-13 to 14-13, and Hawthorn kept
Footscray licking its wooden spoon,
12-15 to 7-23. ’Scray has lost its seven
matches, though its percentage record is
better than “Sowth’s,” next above it on
the list.
* # ❖ *
“S.”: In S.A., as I write, Norwood is
the only unbeaten team, every other having
been beaten at least twice. This is Aus-
tralian-rules football, of course. Rugby
and Soccer are played ; but in Adelaide
“also run,” along with hockey, lacrosse
and baseball. The controllers of some of
these pastimes have not yet adopted the
district system, and will never get much
further till they do. When a side calls
itself by some fancy name like Aroha,
or, as in one incredible case, Northumber-
land and Durham, its success or failure
can be a matter of interest only to the
players and their relatives and friends.
$ $ $ $
First of the Sydney trials for the
Rugby Union team to go to England was
Saturday’s City v. Country match —
stodgy in the first half, and after that a
rout. The countrymen tired badly, and it
was 40-12 against them at the finish.
Ramalli, the little half-back, had a hand
in most of the City movements, shooting
the ball swiftly to his line or cutting
through himself when the opportunity
came. Oxenham, an active young break-
away from University, did things too, and
McLaughlin ran hard and well in the
centre. Kelaher, on one of the country-
men’s wings, grew dog-weary like the
rest, and Hills rarely showed out.
Kelaher and two of the Country for-
wards, Purnell (Bathurst) and Goodwin
(Newcastle), get another chance to show
their, paces in a preliminary to to-day’s
Queensland-Victoria trial. Westralian
forwards (Robertson and Green) are in
also. On Saturday N.S.W. fields two
teams, one to play Victoria, the other
Queensland.
There’s been an upheaval on the Syd-
ney Rugby Union premiership table.
Eastern Suburbs, still unable to field its
best fifteen, has slipped. North is on top
now, leading by two points from Gor-
don ; but it will need to improve to hold
the position, even though its margin over
St. George was considerable: 19-3, five
tries to none. Gordon, which held Rand-
wick, minus Towers and Richards, to a
tryless draw, 12 all, is improving all the
time, and seems more likely to stay up
among the leaders. Gordon’s forwards
are doing a grand job.
East shares third position with ’Wick
and Drummoyne. Drummoyne ac-
counted for Parramatta, and had to play
good solid football to do so —14-9 was
the margin, and tries were even, two
each. University gave a glimpse of its
old-time form in piling up five tries to
West’s three —31-20. And East was
trounced—by Manly. For once this season
the Villagers threw the ball about to
some purpose, and at the finish had four
tries to East’s one —22-12.
* * * if
The hatchet having been buried in
the feud between City and Country
Rugby Leagues—though both factions
remain within strategical reach of the
handle —the happy occasion was marked
by a match at the S.C.G. It was just
a match. There were far too many faults
by both back divisions. Forwards were
solid and worked well. Country had the
better of it for a time, but the effort to
gain their half-time lead of 17-13 seemed
to burn the countrymen out, for on the
resumption City had matters all its own
way. The forwards, hunting in a moun-
tainous pack, mopped up the opposition
in the open, and in the scrums the ball
came out to Thompson monotonously.
The urban thirteen piled on 25 points
while the lads from the provinces got
nary a sniff of one, so it was 38 to 17 in
City’s favor at the finish. Felsch, the
City skipper, who was to have captained
N.S.W. against Queensland on Saturday,
suffered a broken nose. There was an
excellent attendance —32,000-odd.
The City v Country Seconds was a
ragged affair. The hardest-worked man on
the ground was “Zambuk,” the sideline
at times resembling a casualty clearing
station. Sydney prevailed 27-8.
* if * *
Though jointly occupying only fifth
place in the N.S.W. State Soccer League
premiership, Adamstown and Metters put
on as good a game as has been seen this
season, strong determined rushes being
a feature. Hefty forwards were still ram-
paging up the field when the long blast
sounded at 3 all. Goodyear maintained
its 3-point lead, helping itself to a 5-0
win at Woonona-Bulli’s expense. Walls-
end romped away from Granville 4-1 ;
Cessnock outplayed Gladesville 3-0 ; St.
George downed Newcastle 3-1, and the
consistent Weston put up 4 to Leich-
hardt’s 2.
* :i= * *
“Chutemon”: When the Palestinians
trip on the green shores of Westralia on
June 13 they will meet one set of players
akin to themselves, the Maccabeans, of
Perth. The Maccabeans have this season
reached the senior League and are per-
forming very creditably, among their
trophies being the scalps of Caledonians,
the big Cup winners. Starting as juniors,
they have progressed season by season
to their present eminent position. Their
ranks were lately added to by a couple
of Jewish refugees, and one, Kurtz, is a
star player.
Miscellaneous
Reid, Queensland’s representative, had
no opponents in what was to have been
a race for the inter-State ’Varsity sculling
championship on the Nepean (N.S.W.),
but five eights took the water. Melbourne,
the most powerful crew, pulled its way
to the front after the first mile, and the
other two miles saw it lengths ahead.
In the end Melbourne beat Sydney by a
length and a half, with Adelaide seven
lengths away and Perth and Brisbane out
of it. The time was 16min. 38sec—very
good indeed, and Victorian rowing is
well on the way to regaining its old repu-
tation.
* * * *
For the third time Jim Ferrier has
won the Queensland open and amateur
golf championships. In the open his
aggregate of 290 was six strokes more
than he took last year when he defeated
Walker, the State professional champion,
by 15 strokes, and thereby equalled Von
Nida’s record 284. This time Walker,
again runner-up, was six strokes away,
with Brown in third place with an aggre-
gate of 300. Ferrier and Von Nida now
share honors in the event —three wins
each.
In the amateur Ferrier clinched matters
with a sound 7 and 5 over A. H. Col-
ledge, of Brisbane, though the loser
played well throughout. The Sydney
man was forced to play under scratch
figures to win—no easy matter at Yeer-
ongpilly. Waterson, conqueror of
Ferrier for the N.S.W. amateur title, did
not go to Brisbane.
Cremin, the Australian professional
champion, won his second Yeerongpillv
Purse with rounds of 71-70, having three
strokes to spare from E. W. Anderson.
Walker, with 144, beat Cremin by four
strokes for the Gailes Purse. Colledge
and McAskill easily won the State four-
somes with 150, beating O’Sullivan and
Thompson, last year’s runners-up, and
Bertlesen-Green by five strokes.


PAINFUL CORNS.
No matter how many, or liow big, or how long
they have made their abode with you, whether hard
or soft, A’CORN SILK will settle them and give you
glorious foot comfort. Applied with postage stamp
simplicity, A’CORN SILK kills corns while you sleep,
no trouble —no mess—no pain. The way corns dis-
appear is magical—a sixpenny packet will suffice.
Ask your chemist for A’CORN SILK —only one price,
6d. Packed by FULTON, ORIMWADE & DUERDINS,
LTD.) Melbourne,
ĵ
Twice. Da ih/ -2'30-Q
AT THE
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-8
Last Days "Broadway Hot Shots.”
Comm, Mon., June 13. Big: New Company,
featuring' ANNA MAY WONG.
Last Days
“The Laugh Round-up/’ featuring
AVILL MAHONEY and Company.
SHADOW
SHOWS
“Idiot’s Delight”: Play and
Talkie
Comparisons between “Idiot’s Delight”
as a play at Sydney Minerva and as a
talkie at Sydney St. James, instead of
being odious enough to spoil either show,
make both more interesting. The Min-
erva effort, against all that Hollywood
can do for the other, remains a first-class
play ; at the St. James, against the appeal
of a flesh-and-blood show, there’s a first-
class talkie to be seen.
The talkie serves to demonstrate the
very high quality of the play. Though
Clark Gable and Norma Shearer, more
vivid on the screen than Henry Mollison
and Lina Basquette are on the stage, lift
the talkie’s entertainment value consider-
ably, they’re not so very far ahead of
the Minerva pair.
Norma Shearer, pallid in the early
scenes, develops later on the sense of
Eric von Stroheim welcomes French officer prisoners M. Fresnay and Cabin in “Grand Illusion,” at Sydney Savoy.
comedy that the other lady, on the first
night anyhow, lacked. But seeing the
Shearer dreamily Julietting at the begin-
ning showed clearly how difficult a part
it is. The girl portrayed—a Yankee no-
body posing as a Russian princess and
taking her pose half-seriously—is an im-
possible character. Lina Basquette made
her too serious to be as funny as she
might have been ; the Shearer makes her
funny enough at the end, but at the be-
ginning she’s only convincing as a pain
in the neck.
Gable, the Yank who is touring Europe
with a bunch of blondes, turns on plenty
of amusement. He has two advantages
over Mollison: the first that the talkie,
by giving scenes from his early life that
aren’t in the play, makes it easy for him
to portray a lighthearted rover, and the
second that when he dances with his
blondes you laugh automatically at the
famous Clark Gable in such a ridiculous
role —a laugh that has nothing whatever
to do with the play Sherwood wrote. But
there’s no need to make allowances for
Mollison; Gable is better, of course, but
not so much better that he can make
the total effect of the talkie any more im-
pressive than that of the play.
Present commentator will swear on
oath if necessary that the supporting cast
at the Minerva is actually better than the
aides-de-camp of Gable and Shearer.
Honors are about even for the role of the
Y Communist Lloyd Lamble made
11 eas y for himself at the Minerva by
y ell, ng blue murder all the time, but he
yelled very effectively. Burgess Mere-
dith works up to a climax more skilfully,
but he doesn’t scream loudly enough to
justify the Italian Air Force gents haul-
ing him off to be shot. The Minerva’s
honeymooners were much more effec-
tive than the film’s; Wm. O’Neal, both
in looks and in comedy, fitted the part of
Air Force officer better than does Joseph
Schildkraut; Charles Zoli, both comic
and pathetic as a waiter, appealed more
than does the film’s character, who is
merely pathetic; and Frank Bradley is
streets ahead of Charles Coburn as a
German scientist. And the Minerva’s
blondes, en masse, have no need, if they
happen to have the ability, to blush be-
fore Gable’s goils.
Whether, player for player, the talkie
actors haven’t the more impressive quali-
fications isn’t the point. Nor does it
matter that their acting may be more
polished. In effect on the audience,
which is what does matter, the play, as
far as the secondary characters are con-
cerned, strikes home in comedy where
the talkie misses.
In conveying the feeling of tension, the
talkie wins easily. It has sirens and
bombers to help, the dialogue has been
cut and the action is swifter, more ner-
vous. Gable and Norma Shearer, the
Little People whom the war is to destroy,
play out their scene among the crashing
of bombs with a fine sense of drama.
But then Hollywood did what Holly-
wood would do, and refused to kill Clark
Gable and refused to let anyone go home
thinking, as Sherwood wanted them to
think, that war is quite a serious matter.
If they’d only dropped a bomb on
Clark and Norma the talkie, as drama,
must have licked the play. As it is, the
St. James show finishes humorously but
weakly with its stars safe and happy, and
the Minerva, leaving the audience to sup-
pose that the pleasant Henry Mollison
and the glamorous Lina Basquette have
been, or are about to be, blown to smith-
ereens, gets its own back with a strong
finish.
Schnabel Recitals.
At Sydney Town Hall last week Artur
Schnabel continued to tell the truth, the
whole truth and nothing but the truth
about certain pianoforte works by Beet-
hoven, Bach, Schubert and Mozart.
His attitude towards his audiences has
remained unbending, even frigid. He
plays exactly what his evening’s pro-
gramme calls for, omitting not even the
tiniest fugitive demisemiquaver, and
then calls it a day. People who wait
around expecting him to dash back
wreathed in smiles to play Chopin’s
“Minute Waltz” or a little thing of his
own are sadly disillusioned. Mr. Schna-
bel, if he has ever read Dale Carnegie’s
monumental work, has been unimpressed
by it. He feels no need to make friends,
and cares not how he influences people
so long as they stay quiet while he is
playing.
On Saturday night.he had an inaus-
picious beginning. His first item was a
Bach toccata. He was just getting it into
its stride when there came a fizz and a
flash as of lightning. A photographer
leaning over the balcony had done the
fell deed. Schnabel, rudely awakened,
played on for a few bars, then stopped
abruptly, muttered several fierce denun-
ciations in a foreign tongue, and when
a little calmer started all over again. He
was quite justified in being angry. Any-
one who would intrude on Schnabel play-
ing Bach would start a game of skittles
in the aisle of Westminster Abbey.
The Beethoven sonatas have been the
feature of the week’s proceedings. The
selection has ranged from the untroubled
gaiety of Op. 79 to the turbulence and
profundity of the very last one, the won-
derful Op. 111, the serenity of Op. 109
and the elegance and eloquence of Op. 31,
No. 2. These sonatas, like all the others
of the week’s collection save the “Pathe-
tique” have no nicknames, only numbers.
The numbers mean nothing save to the
musical, and the music is like that too,
speaking its own language. Schnabel is
master of its accent and idiom, and his
evident conviction that it has meaning,
and that the meaning is vitally important,
is infective.
To sum Schnabel up, he’s the most
reverent musician, the most perfectly
equipped pianoforte technician and the
most austere performer in public (with
the possible exception of Heifetz) who
has visited Sydney for years and years
and years.
The A.B.C. doesn’t seem to have made
a very judicious selection of the halves
of Schnabel programmes it has allowed
its subscribers, the listeners, to hear. The
“Waldstein” and the “Pathetique,” the
only Beethoven sonatas which the aver-
age lisiener could even identify, were re-
served for ticket-buyers.
Richard Crooks in Melbourne.
Richard Crooks had no difficulty in re-
peating his former triumphs at Mel-
bourne Town Hall last week.
Crooks is the perfect concert per-
former. He is physically impressive, looks
nice and affable and expansive, pats the
piano as if it were a friendly St. Bernard,
regards his audience as if he knew them
and they knew him—as most of them
do, having heard him on the records—
and, when he opens his mouth, sings like
an angel. But he never makes undue de-
mands upon his hearers. He doesn't
bounce upon the stage like other operatic
tenors with an expression on his face as
if he were saying “You’ve got to like
me.” He waits until he has engendered
the feeling, and then he becomes as jolly
as his audience.
This occurred on Thursday after he
had sung magnificently three fine songs
by Handel and followed them with a
string of encores which culminated in the
“Serenade” of Schubert. After that all
was plain sailing ; but on Saturday,
when there was a smaller audience, Mel-
bourne having had a surfeit of concerts
lately, the critical moment didn’t come
till well past half-time. Then the demands
of the audience became so insistent that
in the end they wanted him more than he
wanted them, apparently, because he
closed the proceedings at 10.30 by getting
his accompanist, Schauwecker, to play
the National Anthem.
He seemed to sing as easily as a lark
does. His diction was as admirable as his
phrasing, his whispers carried as well as
his fortes, and his fortes were as velvety
as his pianissimos. There are certain
songs in his repertoire which are taboo
in high musical circles, but Crooks could
give almost anything a passport into the
company of Mozart and Wagner.
Karoly Szenassy, his assistant, is a
handsome young Hungarian who wears a
black Russian blouse and plays the
violin with unusually mature distinction,
but the long, dry Paganini concerto with
which he regaled the audience on Satur-
day, coming after Crooks, was like hop-
ping out of a warm, scented bath for a
dip in the briny at St. Kilda in mid-
winter. At that, he got an ovation almost
as prolonged as Crooks did.
Szell Conducts the Verdi
“Requiem.”
Verdi’s magnificent “Requiem,”
written on the death of the poet
Manzoni, brought the Philharmonics,
the Symphony Orchestra and Georg
Szell together on Melb. Town Hall plat-
form last week.
The effects the Czech conductor
drew out of his battalions were tre-
mendously dramatic, and sometimes the
volume of sound threatened to burst the
walls of the building ; but generally the
various parts were as well differentiated
as the characters in an opera.
Heather Kinnaird’s mezzo-soprano,
blown about like a feather in the tempest,
sounded nice in the “Lux dßterna.” Thea
Philips’s soprano was equal to the
occasion, and was extraordinarily effec-
tive in the solemn chant and air of the
final “Libera Me.” Raymond Beatty, bass,
and tenor Lionello Cecil and the two
other soloists were under the watchful
eye of the conductor, who didn’t
scruple to give them a touch of the
spur, metaphorically speaking, when he
thought their gait required it. Behind
the scenes was George English, Sydney’s
future choir director, who was respon-
sible for kneading the Philharmonic clay
into condition.
“Grand Illusion.”
A second inspection of this latest Con-
tinental film at Sydney Savoy found it
even better in some respects than at the
first viewing.
They speak French, German and some
bits of English in it, and for those who
haven’t a command of sundry languages
printed translations are run across the
lower part of the screen. This works
well, but it distracts the eye from what
is being presented above, especially in
the earlier sequences ; after the film has
progressed a bit the action alone is
enough to convey what’s being depicted.
Even so, at a first viewing the eye tends
to drop automatically to each new
printed line thrown on the screen. At a
second viewing the film can be watched
without reference to the print at all.
Practically every scene in it is an
arresting composition. The depth is re-
markable. There is always distance to
look back into. Sometimes it recedes for
miles, and there is nearly always some-
thing far off that is of interest. There


MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which
the books are published in London. Prices
outside the British Isles must be fixed by
the importing bookseller.
Cheap Edition Now Ready.
“GONE WITH
THE WIND”
The famous story of the American
Civil War, by Margaret Mitchell.
Holiday Edition Only —
ORDER EARLY.
(Overseas Library.)
New Novels
(Overseas Library)
A. G. MACDONELL:
“The Spanish Pistol
and Other Stories.”
NAOMI ROYDE SMITH:
“The Altar-piece.”
ANNA GORDON KEOWN:
“Wickhams Fancy.”
RICHMAL CROMPTON:
“Merlin Bay.”
E. M. DEL AFIELD:
“Three Marriages.”
To be obtained from all
booksellers and
MACMILLAN & CO. Ltd.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one way via “The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
11
Mill
ww*
L.
i ' H <1 >
Ill'll' 1
K
c. <
hi a
S!Mi 111 I II
\V>
• •
UUI
-UfW
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
fU
will be one of these deep scenes, with the
main business happening about the fore-
ground and then a squad of soldiers will
Sarch across the background Where
they have come from or where they
might be going is of no account; they
are just local color. There is continually
something like this going on with no
direct bearing on the film except to
create atmosphere. Then the proportions
are so good, and the acting so natural,
that for long stretches the eye is caught
with the illusion of watching living
people, scenes and occurrences.
It is a very long film, and all scenes in
it are presented with a lingering regard
for detail, but there are remarkable in-
stances of economy in it, too. For
example, two French officers set out to
fly over’the German lines, are brought
down, made prisoners and taken to lunch
in the German flying officers’ mess, yet
no sign of any ’plane appears in the film.
Or there is the taking of the prisoners
half-across Germany by train, but with
no time-wasting depictions of the train ;
the camera concentrates on the passing
landscape.
Though there is always a very close
depiction of detail in the scenes, it is
always interesting detail. These Conti-
nental filmsmiths have a real feeling for
landscape and architecture. When the
prisoners are taken to an old castle the
audience follows them being shown over
the place, and by the time the inspection
is over knows the castle inside and out,
every stone and door, room and window
in it. It is the same when two of the
prisoners are escaping across country-
The audiences follows them trudging
along, and not only feels the trudge as
they are feeling it, but feels as well the
earth they lie on and sleep on.
Mostly the film moves on an even
level —as a documentary record of actual
happenings. But every now and then it
becomes intensely alive with dramatic
power. An example of these inspired
moments is the quarrel between the two
escaping prisoners after they have been
trudging for days. Their tempers are
frayed by the strain ; they’ve got to the
stage where they hate each other. A re-
mark or two as they trudge along a
muddy road build up into mutual abuse.
They savagely decide to separate. One
says this makes him so happy he could
sing. He sits down on a muddy mound
and starts singing a light song. The other
strides off angrily across the fields, also
singing. When he’s out of the other’s
hearing he stops; and then gradually
the whole folly and madness of what
they’re doing occurs to both of them.
The one who had strode off returns;
there’s an almost wordless reconciliation,
and they go on again together.
The film has many such scenes oc-
curring at intervals through it, every one
of them on its own a powerful dramatic
statement. As a whole the production
has the same powerful quality, while
being as natural and convincing as it
would seem possible for any film to be.
“Fisherman’s Wharf.”
Bobby Breen, Leo Carrillo, Henry Armetta.
Though it’s strictly for Breen addicts,
and any other persons viewing it do so
at their own risk, it must be said for
this main current item at Sydney
Lyceum that it’s about as well con-
structed and as well acted as a length
of sentimentalism can be. And it must
also be said of the Breen that, although
he’s still the same soulful yawper, his
acting has improved tremendously and
he turns on the waterworks less fre-
quently than hitherto.
Film kicks off with the cheild and
Messrs. Carrillo and Armetta hauling
fish and crabs into their boat and sing-
ing their heads off to the accompani-
ment of an ethereal orchestra. That
sample is a pretty fair indication of the
whole film. Carrillo is a fisherman,
Breen his adopted son and Armetta his
staunch offsider. Into their circle drift
Carrillo’s sister and her child, both of
’em particularly nasty specimens who set
about reorganising Carrillo’s business
and household to the extent of telling
master Breen he’s an orphan, which
makes him light out for parts unknown.
It all solves itself, of course, according
to Hollywood’s most familiar conven-
tions, and at fadeout there’s a beauti-
ful clinch between master Robert and
Carrillo.
Carrillo and Armetta lighten it con-
siderably with their explosiveness and
their vocal contortions, and there’s also
a trained seal who’s a better actor than
any of ’em.
“Wife, Husband and Friend
Loretta Young, Warner Baxter, Binnie Barnes.
This Sydney Embassy item is fast-
moving comedy some of the way, slow
the rest, lightly amusing in spots, dull
in others.
It’s all about a respectable married
gent, whose domestic happiness is
threatened by wife’s aspirations to a
career as a warbler. Wife has no voice
to speak of, and husband, by Holly-
wooden coincidence, suddenly discovers
he is possessed of a first-class baritone.
Solution to his troubles, as he sees it,
is to gain sufficient reputation to allow
him to confront his spouse across the
footlights and show her that even when
it comes to singing he’s still boss of his
household.
With Miss Barnes as an opera singer
interested in Mr. Baxter, it’s not a bad
set-up for a while, but the filmsmiths
wear it to a shadow towards the finish.
In the last ten minutes the film de-
generates into crude slapstick which
could easily have been dropped alto-
gether.
Baxter appears to have dropped a few
pounds, and years with them, though he
is still incapable of giving an amusing
or convincing depiction of a man on a
bender. Miss Young is, as usual, not
hard to watch, and Miss Barnes remains
her charming, unruffled self. George
Barbier, Helen Westley and Eugene
Pallette supply the best laughs.
ARTBURSTS.
Melbourne
Despite obvious endeavors to be
original and unique, work of the Plastic
Group at the Vic. Artists’ Society re-
calls sculptural bric-a-brac of our Vic-
torian grandmothers.
There is no lack of variety of
materials, since they include stone, lime-
stone, wood, alabaster, terra-cotta,
marble and plaster, but the observer
isn’t made to forget the material. After
looking at Ola Cohn’s plaster figure
“Pioneer Woman,” present viewer went
away thinking, not of pioneer women,
but of plaster; and the same applies to
Clive Stephens, Edith Hughston, Moya
Carey, Ethel Reynolds, W. M. Mathews
and the rest.
The most amusing, because the least
pretentious, is Val Blogg’s effigy of a
dentist looking down his patient’s throat.
His head of a censor with a real pair
of spectacles on his nose is not so good.
* * * *
Isolation has done no harm yet to the
art of Noel Wood, who owns and inhabits
a mile-square island on the Barrier.
Although, for some reason or other,
he is acclaimed as a member of the
modern school, what distinguishes his
show at Riddell’s Galleries, Melbourne,
is its relative freedom from any influ-
ence other than Nature’s own. A little
tuition in Adelaide has apparently slipped
off his back as easily as southern clothes
are slipped off in the tropical North.
Some of his pictures tend to be flat
and more inventories of facts than im-
pressions, but in the best of them there
is a quality of light and air which would
be gratefully received if it were present
more in city-living painters’ shows. His
greens are dark and his shadows heavy
and often almost black, and people who
have never seen the tropics will cavil at
the solidity of his tones ; but he seldom
misses an effect of atmosphere. Sin-
cerity like this is the rarest thing in the
world.
Mr. Wood fishes and hunts for his
food, and lives in a self-built house and
doesn’t worry, apparently, about art
“movements” at all.
"j- *i* '!■
Septimus Power, who is up once again
for inspection at Melbourne Athenaeum,
has not varied his style, but the modern-
ists have taken the wind out of the sails
of his once-popular formula. They are
all there —the dogs, the horses and the
topographical displays, the largest but
not the most important being a vast land-
scape of Mount Buffalo.
A better picture, and one which the
artist must have enjoyed painting more,
is a little sketch of Samoan natives
against a background of sun and sea, in
which there is five times more light and
air than in the big canvases.
From his last exhibition the National
Gallery carried away the picture of the
man and the girl and dog which cost the
Felton Bequest 1000 guineas. The cost-
liest canvas in the present show is priced
at 700 less.
* * * *
Adelaide
Adelaide National Gallery is having a
feast of fresh pictures. The Melbourne
Gallery has lent a picked dozen of its
own best, including the “Bent Tree” by
Corot.
In two other rooms is the current
Academy show —the first time it has been
seen in Adelaide. A mixed lot, with per-
haps special interest in the portrait-paint-
ing section, a branch in which S.A. is
not yet prominent —barring Nora Hey-
sen’s much-discussed Archibald Prize
winner, which is one of the exhibits.
A Sundry Showman last week credited
the Australian play “Wives Have Their
Uses” to the wrong Gwen. The play’s
author is Gwen Meredith. Her play was
put on by the Chelsea Club, Sydney, as
one of the Australian Drama Month
offerings, and one of the best of estab-
lished Australian playwrights, who is also
a keen critic, rates Miss Meredith’s work
among the very best offered during the
month.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
0
Specially
Qualified
founded lor convalescent women invalids,
matron and staff. Every possible coinfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney,
’Phone: 84771.
j
York Minster.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOCK TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways ol
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the flrsl
streamlined train—Lon-
don to Edinburgh, 30'!
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS, FHILP AND CO., LTD.,
•J Bridge Street. Sydney, and Branches
Agents throughout Australia.
KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they disco
that the real cause of their trouble maj be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidnejs
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters wnicn
strain the waste and acids from the blood,
healthy person should pass 3 pints a da>
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
m kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisons,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains- h „ 0
pep and energy, getting up nights, 1 urn g
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness un
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It
lay you up for many months. tiOAN’S
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist for DOAN
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . .. used J U^ le
fully the world over by millions of I
suffering with backache and other hum. .
. orders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kffiney tub • " EY
sure you get DOAN'S BACKACHE
PILLS.
A WOMANS
LETTER
There was a moon full blast above
the aloof University halls, there were
the chimes of the carillon and waves
of organ music. In short, everything was
on hand at the Halse Rogers party at
the University, except Vice-Chancellor
Wallace, who was still aboard the
Aorangi. There were 400 guests, who
made entry through the Great Hall but
drained their cups in the Union Refec-
tory. And probably director of our
National Gallery Will Ashton was one
of the few lifting eyes to the beauty of
the paintings on the walls. This wasn’t
a young people’s party ; neither was it
very old—just a touch of autumn, say ;
but youth cropped up here and there.
Judith and Lorraine Halse Rogers
(daughters of the host and hostess)
brought spring into the long room.
Judith was hatless, and there was a
touch of cornelian velvet on her deep-
blue frock.
Mrs. Halse Rogers’s frock of gold-
patterned black romaine was ground-
length, and in her dark furs she wore
yellow roses. The Isaacs lady was there ;
so were the Mayoral Nocks. The Julius
lady was among the afternoon’s good-
lookers. Mrs. Cecil and Mrs. Harold
Weigall and the H. S. Dettmanns were
noted. The Major-General Hardies,'
knights Tom Bavin and Mungo Mac-
Callum, professors. Judges and doctors
(Dame Constance D’Arcy among these),
Mrs. David Cohen, Mary Makinson, one
of the few women not in black, the
Consuls and their wives and Mrs. Walter
Burfitt were of the 400.
Philip, the elder son of this State’s
former Governor Sir Philip Game, was
married in London last week to Sydney
girl Vera Blackburn, daughter of our
eminent medical knight Charles Black-
burn.
The Charles Lloyd Jones family came
back in the Aorangi, and on Sunday
night all the members of the clan dropped
into Rosemont for a family supper party.
They’ve travelled in the U.S.A., the
south of France, and in England. They
went to receptions where they saw the
fairest women, and to race meetings
where they saw the finest horses the
several countries could produce. They
saw the great dress-designers of the
world busy in their workshops, and they
spent hours in the Louvre and the
Luxembourg galleries. The boys were,
for part of the time, at school in France.
They report the passage from America
in the Aorangi, except for the delay in
landing, perfect—forty-three passengers,
all congenial.
Canberra has had quite a few of the
Taylor family sampling its gaieties and
scenic effects. Besides Captain Pat
Taylor, of the Guba company, the
Federal Capital recently held his mother,
Mrs. Pat Taylor, senior, and Mrs. Don
Taylor, his sister-in-law. This Letter
doesn’t know how it will strike their
airman’s mind when the crew of the
’plane and the angel behind the
enterprise, Richard Archbold, are flying
between sea and sky, but to her the
cumulus-packed dome seems one of
Nature’s best aesthetic efforts. Libraries
and air-minded, please note that Captain
Taylor is writing another book.
Battleships drawing a long wake of
crested foam, motor torpedo boats cream-
ing through the waves, and the mighty
Repulse, in the harbor at Malta, are a
few of the stirring photographs on view
in David Jones’s auditorium. This
camera exhibition of “Britain’s naval
might” shows the men of the navy at
work and occasionally at play. The
types are splendid, clean-cut as to figure,
and spafklingly intelligent about the face
and the eyes. “Ship’s Tobacco,” “Lighter
Moments,” “Ship’s Tailor” and “Handy
Man” are a neat combination of good
photography and fine subjects.
There’s neither idleness nor mess in
H.M.’s Navy, judging by pictured miles
of holystoned deck and gleaming gun-
nery, as seen in “Official Cali” and
“Ready for Action.” If there is a poet
aboard he’ll treasure such sights as
“Dawn at Sea” and “Turning 16 Points
to Starboard,” with its sweeping rhythm.
The Navy turned up in some numbers
to the opening, which was done by
Admiral Custance in shipshape manner.
Mrs. Custance did the rounds of the
70 pictures with him, making a special
pause in front of the Rodney, which has
old familiar interest for the admiral. The
pictured records are the work of Charles
E. Browne, official photographer to the
Royal Navy, and are on a goodwill tour
of the Empire.
David Smythe, just returned from
Maoriland, motored Philip Crawshaw,
travelling secretary of the Overseas
League, up to Brisbane last week-end.
David has become an airman, and spends
time at Mascot when he is not interview-
ing possible buyers of his lovely house,
No. 8 March-street, Bellevue Hill. Up
in Brisbane Philip Crawshaw will give a
number of lectures.
Marcelle Poate is one of Sydney’s
attractive teen-olds. With her mother
(her parents are Dr. and Mrs. Hugh
Poate, of Bellevue Hill) she has lately
sampled the joys of a cruise up the Nile,
and still more recently she has been holi-
daying at the family’s country home at
Burradoo. Marcelle is about to take up
kindergarten work. When not lending a
helping hand to the city’s toddlers she
will indulge in her favorite ice-skating—
she is one of our graceful intrepids.
Photograph by Monte Luke.
Ivory lace, a family heirloom, formed
the exquisite wedding-dress of Lady
Mary Lygon, the youngest daughter of
Australia’s old friend Earl Beauchamp.
Her bridegroom, Prince Vsevolode
Romanoff, a member of the erstwhile
Russian royalty, had often been the guest
of Lady Mary’s father at Madresfield,
and was a great favorite. Princess Helen,
the ’groom’s mother, is devoted to Lady
Mary, and has given her many priceless
jewels, outstanding among them being
a solitaire diamond ring, once the posses-
sion of Catherine the Second of Russia.
The wedding was twofold, first at the
registrar’s and the next day at the Rus-
sian Church in Belgravia. This was a
magnificent spectacle, and a movie was
taken. Presents included a vanity com-
pact from Queen Mary, with all the
gadgets for make-up, plus a cigarette-
lighter. The compact is thickly set with
sapphires, and Lady Mary told her late
father’s secretary, David Smythe, when he
’phoned his good wishes from Sydney to
her in London, that it was truly lovely,
and one of her favorite gifts. Lady Mary
will now be known in circles that refuse
to recognise the Soviet regime as her
Serene Highness Catherina.
There was a tang of the heather when
the 30th Battalion (Scottish Regiment)
swung into action in the Pompadour ball-
room. This yearly ball of the officers’
mess was sturdy with green kilts and red
coats, and pictorial with the crinoline
frocks worn by many of the women.
There were eightsome reels and Highland
schottisches, and one of the fleet of foot
was Mrs. R. L. Snelling, who partnered her
lieutenant husband’s kilt flower-
scattered pale-blue crinoline, there were
drummers and pipers and a when the
regiment’s Colonel made his entrance.
Major and Mrs. Russell received, her
frock of gold lame one of the night’s
most striking. Black velvet was Mrs.
Norrie’s choice ; moonlight blue Mrs. K.
Patrick’s
All the Bertie Kellys’ children are now
married. Son Carleton and his Gwen
Cheesman were wed quietly, and were
in the midst of their honeymoon at Lap-
stone last week when the news broke.
Elder son Tom and his wife live Camden
way. Tom helps father with his business
all the week, and at the week-end be-
comes a model farmer. Daughter Beat-
rice, who is a clever painter, is Mrs. Mac-
phillamy, of Bathurst. Another daughter,
Mrs. Volterra, lives in Italy. Her hus-
band and she are both brilliant pianists,
and it was she who translated The Story
of San Michele into Italian, winning great
notices for her sensitive rendering.
The sth Heavy Brigade of the Royal
Australian Artillery (M.) will get into
position at the Trocadero for its annual
ball on June 8. Time, nine o’clock.
On June 17 the Blaxland Galleries will
hover between the garden of Eden and
a surrealist’s dream. The journalists have
marked the night down for fun, and from
nine the clock won’t be the only cuckoo
in the nest. In fact, it’s going to be the
sort of night when everyone will go a
little bit the other side of the moon. It’s
to be a night you will remember, even
though, like the doctor, you never tell.
Tickets are only 10s. 6d., and you can
get them at Paling’s, the Australia and
the Carlton.
Readers of the “Australian Woman’s
Mirror” still vividly remember the serial
“Driftwood Isle.” The author of this,
Canadian writer Beryl Gray, is now in
Sydney. She has spent most of her life
in Vancouver, but knows both England
and Australia, so that accounts for the
changing background of her story. She
is,a writer of short stories for such well-
known papers in Canada as “Maclean’s,’’
“Chatelaine” and the “Canadian.”
Photograph from Raymond Sawyer.
Schnabel has pedalled his way into the
heart of this concert season. Not to admire
Artur’s playing of Beethoven, Schubert,
Mozart and the rest would put you
artistically completely on the outer. Lots
of pretty girls continue to turn up regu-
larly. Fair-haired Clara Butter, who is
quite a piano-tamer herself, is a constant;
so is pretty dark-haired Jessica Chard,
another arpeggio argument - winner.
Jessica arrived one night last week wear-
ing a little ermine coat over black velvet
and carrying a geranium-red ostrich
feather fan. Its sticks were of red
lacquer, and carried a design in gold leaf.
Ir has been in the family for a hundred
years or so. Joan Wentworth, in apple-
green satin, Hope Weston, Lorraine
Halse Rogers and Mary Baillie, of Mel-
bourne (a pupil of Schnabel) were other
young admirers. Alice Bryant was there,
the Ernest Empsons and, of course, Mrs.
Eva Wunderlich.
Sheilagh Dalton, the middle one of the
three pretty daughters of the Mick Dal-
tons, of Kangaroobie, Orange, was wed
last week without any of the usual pre-
liminary fussings. Pat Hardy was the
man of her choice, and toasts were drunk
at a dinner party given by Mrs. Playfair
(the ’groom’s sister) and husband Colonel
Playfair at their Double Bay home. All
the Dalton girls can cook like chefs, sew
and embroider, and arrange flowers with
an almost professional touch. Kanga-
roobie, one of the loveliest of our station
homes, is famed for its hospitality, and
has often entertained vice-royalty.
Everybody likes the Richard Crooks
couple, and there was quite a crowd of
old friends down to greet them when the
Awatea brought them back to Australia.
This time they have brought their son
Richard, just a young schoolboy, with
them. Daughter Patricia, who is 17, will
arrive in Sydney in August, and will go
on. to Paris to study dress-designing. Dick
is bound, at the end of father’s season,
for school in Switzerland.
Mrs. A. W. Keighly, good-looking
president of the women’s section of the
Sane Democracy League, had Sir Hugh
Poynter on her left and Dr. Frank
Louat on her right hand at last week’s
meeting. Mrs. Keighly, just back from
travels in Europe, had snared a promise
from D. R. Hall to speak of his recent
experiences in England and America, but
duty and Alice Springs claimed the Sena-
tor. Dr. Louat was the afternoon’s
speaker. It was a grey day, and, already
depressed by umbrella and raincoat, at
least one listener grew almost mouldy
with suppressed gloom when the doctor
gave a too-comprehensive resume of the
cause celebre Democracy versus the Dic-
tator. The cup failed to cheer, and even
a schooner of beer would have been in-
adequate.
A Sydney woman goes to the fifteenth
yearly concert of Lloyd’s, of London:
“This is the only occasion in the year
when woman is allowed the privilege of
entering the underwriters’ room. The
old Lutine bell, which tolls once for dis-
aster in the shipping world, rang out
twice to denote the ‘All’s well!’ when
the doors were flung wide for the guests.
The underwriters’ room is lofty, and a
noted piece of furniture is the rostrum
(the original Lloyd’s rostrum is in the
London museum). This is backed by a
splash of vivid blue —the firm’s war
memorial.
“From the centre of the rostrum hangs
the ship’s bell from the French frigate
La Lutine, seized in 1785, when Hood
captured Toulon. On the ceiling are four
brightly-colored modern paintings, and
round the walls are golden medallions
of heads of famous men of the sea, from
Drake to Jellicoe. The concertgoers sat
at the underwriters’ desks —solid mahog-
any tables with pewlike seats each side,
so that unfortunate latecomers sat with
their backs to the orchestra.”
Singer Richard Crooks arrived in Syd-
ney from Enzed reporting only four shil-
lings spending money. Though it will be
in his possession later he wasn’t able to
carry off the loot from his concert season
in the Savage Isles. But that shouldn’t
worry one who has been a choir singer.
A Maoriland friend always declares that
“Maoriland is God’s own country.” How
soothing for Mr. Crooks to reflect that
he has treasure laid up in heaven.
In London one really wet day last
month a Sydney woman walked the
length of Oxford-street trying to buy
goloshes. She tried 15 different shops,
and, believe it or believe it not, she
couldn’t get a pair in any. A woman
just returned from Russia sympathised,
and said it was admittedly hard to get
goloshes in Russia, but easier to get them
in Moscow than in London.
Kate Baker, who has been over since
December keeping Miles Franklin com-
pany, gave a farewell tea-party to some
of her friends. Tea-drinkers were Miles
Franklin, Dame Mary Gilmore, Mrs
Dowell O’Reilly, Mrs. A. B. Crowther,
Mrs. H. and Miss Bridle, Miss Lampe
and niece Marion Baker. On each plate
were a buttonhole of flowers and a card
of remembrance with some delightfully
chosen verse or paragraph. Kate had her
arms full of violets given by her friends.
Betty Morgan, a former student of
A. Dattilo-Rubbo’s art school, is return-
ing home in the Oronsay after 12 months
spent on the Continent. Betty last year
came second in the N.S.W. ravelling
Art Scholarship, after which she went to
London and studied there in several art
schools. At the beginning of January
she went to Paris and attended the French
schools, of which she is a great admirer.


DEAF
Hearing is now being restored in every
condition of deafness or defective hearing
from causes such as Catarrhal Deafness,
Relaxed or Sunken Drums, Thickened
Drums, Roaring and Hissing Sounds.
Perforated, Wholly or Partially Destroyed
Drums, Discharge from Ears, etc.
WILSON'S EAR DRUMS
effectively replace what is lacking or
defective in the natural ear drums. They
are simple devices, which the wearer
easily fits into the ears, where they art-
invisible. Soft, safe and comfortable.
Write to-day for our FREE booklet, or
order by post. The price is %%/-.
WILSON EAR DRUM CO.
279 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Personal and Missing Friends.
UNCLAIMED MONEY—MISSING
HEIRS—NEXT-OF-KIN.
BAKER.—George Clarke David Baker, of
Lygon-street, near Melbourne, Victoria,
prior to 1919.
CLARK.—Donald Mclver Clark, arrived Aus-
tralia about 75 years ago. Had sister
Jessie Helen.
CURRYER. —George Stockley Curryer and
Thomas Ernest Curryer, sons of Thomas
Curryer, deceased.
HALE.—Frederick or Frederick Thomas Hale,
believed born in Melbourne, 1896, son of
Frederick Hale.
HlLLER.—Reginald Rudolph Hiller.
HOGG.—David Hogg, formerly of Fonah,
Forfar, Scotland.
MOODY. —James William Moody, who resided
at Ascot-street, Ballarat, Victoria, until 1931.
McKENZIE. —John McKenzie, born at Here-
kino, New Zealand, 1904.
PATERSON. —John and William McFarlane
Paterson, son and grandson of Mrs. Jessie
Paterson.
RICHARDSON. —David Richardson, son of
David and Margaret Richardson, believed
landed Sydney, 1920.
RILEY. —William McLaren Riley, born in
England, 1879, and of South Africa and
Queensland.
SMITH. —John Delaney Smith, of Broxburn,
Scotland, one-time Chief Petty Officer
Mechanician, R.N.
STEWARD. —Edward Joseph Steward, born
about 1890, formerly of Whitehaven, Cum-
berland, England.
USHER. —William and Thomas Usher
(brothers), of Adelaide or Kooringa, S.A.,
in 1871.
YOUNG. —Robert Young, born about 1883,
late of Oxted, Surrey, England.
The abovenamed persons or their descendants
write MR. TELFER, 16 Pirie Street, Adelaide,
immediately. .
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF VICTORIA.
Divorce and Matrimonial Causes
Jurisdiction.
No. 302 of 1939.
EBBA DORA BILLINGE Petitioner
And FRANCIS REGINALD BILLINGE
Respondent.
TO FRANCIS REGINALD BILLINGE
formerly of 64 Bondi Road and 59 Old
South Head Road Waverley in the State
of New South Wales Salesman.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife EBBA
DORA BILLINGE of 45 Mathoura Road
Toorak in the State of Victoria Married
Woman has instituted proceedings against you
for Divorce on the grounds of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the Protho-
notary’s Office of the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria Law Courts William Street Melbourne
in the State of Victoria within twenty-one days
from the 7th day of June 1939 the said suit
will proceed in your absence and a decree for
dissolution of marriage may be granted and
you may be ordered to pay costs.
DATED this 31st day of May, 1939.
JAMES M. N. MtINTYRE, Solicitor, of
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne, in the State
of Victoria, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 866 of 1939.
BETWEEN THELMA ELIZABETH LORNA
RILEY Petitioner
And CLIFFORD LLOYD RILEY (also
known as Francis Clifford Lloyd Riley)
Respondent
TO CLIFFORD LLOYD RILEY (also known
as Francis Clifford Lloyd Riley) late of
Harrington in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said Thelma
Elizabeth Lorna Riley has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court, and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
ground that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse have left her continuously
so deserted during three years and upwards
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-fifth day of August 1939
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will ptoceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this-Twenty-sixth day of May, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ALFRED J. T. BLAKE, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Diversions of the week other than
those musical included the Rotary Club
Ball at which nearly one thousand
Rotarians and others danced at the Palais
in aid of the Royal Melbourne Hospital
building, now rising upon the old pig-
market site. . ..
Among the pink-coated people the
Findon Harriers’ opening meet of the
• season was of supreme importance. Mem-
bers of the club had been looking foi-
ward to the pride of possession, for for
the first time for over half a century they
were to hunt from their own kennels at
Woodstock, but the same rain that is
threatening floods in the country did
them a bad turn, swamping the surround-
ing area to the state of a morass nego-
tiable for four-legged but not four-
wheeled traffic. Visitors watched from a
distance, and afterwards gathered at the
Woolert Hall for the traditional tea given
by the acting-master and Mrs. R. M.
Cuthbertson, with Mrs. Ray Young and
Kathleen and Georgie Bunting assisting
in seeing that justice was done to open-
air appetites.
When the need is so urgent that the
wolf can be heard sharpening his teeth
on the doorstep and the bailiffs are seen
coming round the corner, their black
derbies pushed hard upon their protrud-
ing ears, human machinery can and does
move fast. It certainly has in the case
of the financial distress of the Children’s
Hospital and the threat to close the
babies’ ward. In the space of one weeK
a gala entertainment at the Princess
Theatre was organised as a knockout
punch for the end-of-June financial
spectre. As the committee got under
way so did several philanthropists with
their chequebooks, and it now looks as
if the babies will be safe and snug in
their cribs after all.
To start the ball rolling for the night
at the Princess, the Latham lady gave a
sherry party at Flete, which she arranged
only one day beforehand. At the party
she addressed her guests from what she
felt was her closest acquaintance up to
date with a soapbox—a stepladder., its
proletarian anatomy disguised under a
Chinese shawl. G. Scott Lang followed
up the ladder to exhibit a donation from
Mrs. Wallace for disposal at the Prin-
cess, a gorgeous basket covered outside
with flowers and containing within an
assortment of bottles of liquid refresh-
ment guaranteed to warm the cockles of
the heart and of the inner man.
Among others present at the party
was the host, forgetting the cares of the
Chief Justice of the High Court of Aus-
tralia. Russian dancers Tchinarova, Abri-
cossova and Geglovsky were there ; also
a group of young students who went
through their paces recently at the Uni-
versity revue. They all assisted at the
Princess ; so did Larry Adler, whose help
was accepted on his spontaneous offer per
telephone. He was accompanied to the
party by his wife, who gave a' glamorous
illustration of the wimple, hers being of
mulberry sheer. Mrs. Adler, who is so
often seen wearing hothouse blooms, was
intrigued with Nancy Hewlett’s button-
hole of daphne. She fell in love with its
perfume, and will no doubt be wearing
its sprigs a lot in the future.
Noticed also within range of the log
fire were Mrs. Fred Dennett and daugh-
ter Sue, just back from a caravan tour
which included a pitching-tent stance
right on the winning post for the boat-
races down at Geelong. Legal people
present included Justice McTiernan and,
from Perth, Ross McDonald, M.L.A. In
charge of the box-plan window in the
hall were Barbara. Bayles, Beryl Cowper
and Celia Fogarty, who had a substan-
tial bundle of cheques and Treasury
notes to show for their efforts by the end
of the evening.
Richard Crooks doesn’t bother very
much about tricks of showmanship. His
manner is approachable and pleasant (he
stepped out of his way to pick up a
handkerchief dropped upon the stage by
a member of the stage-chairs audience)
but direct and straight from the shoulder.
He gives the people the songs they want
to hear, but with no waving of arms or
display of sentiment. His first concert
audience was a cosmopolitan one, as
simply dressed as has appeared at a large
Town Hall concert this season. The
general pubic had turned up in full force
in spite of a wet day followed by a drizzly
night. Crooks adopted the neatest
method of terminating his concert —
“God Save the King,” played after the
encores (“Old Mother Hubbard,” of
Handel-like technique, “Mother of
Mine” and “The Lord’s Prayer”).
The audience presented a black- or
sombre-shouldered picture, but Mrs.
Crooks, who sat with several members of
the Tait family for' the first part of the
programme (at the interval she slipped
away offstage), wore an elaborate gown
of white crepe and a magnificent white
ermine coat with a high guardsman’s
collar. In white satin was Mrs. C. L.
Kimpton, who added as accessories a
diamond tiara and a gold vanity case.
The Bob Hamiltons, who seldom miss a
concert, were there, Mrs. Hamilton with
red roses placed at the neck of her black
velvet gown.
Mrs. Richard Crooks was not to be
seen at Saturday’s concert, but remained
backstage, as she so often does when her
husband is singing. It was an excellent
house, containing a goodly percentage of
furs as well of all-weather coats and small
hats. Aylene Conway wore white foxes
reaching to her knees over a trained
silver gown. Army representatives in-
cluded General Jess, with his lady, in a
black coat collared in silver fox, and
daughter Betty, in sapphire velvet; also
Major-General O. F. Phillips and his
wife, who wore a fur wrap, moon-blue
sequins and an orchid or two. Mrs. Roy
Holdenson and Mrs. Lou Parkes were
noticed, also Phillis Hope Robertson, who
is lingering in Melbourne for radio en-
gagements on her way homewards to
Perth. A long coat of burgundy velvet
and a pastel-blue ribbon in her hair were
worn by daughter Valerie, who accom-
panied her mother, Mrs. J. G. Purves.
In the Spencer Shier portrait is Betty,
eldest of the Dal Adams couple’s four
young daughters, who last week was
married to John Lindsay Jenkins at the
Littlejohn Memorial Chapel. Following
the ceremony the bride’s parents gave a
buffet dinner-party at No. 9 Darling-
street, after which everybody danced
merrily until round about midnight. For
the last round of good-byes and felici-
tations the bride exchanged her white
gown, cut with classical simplicity, for a
frock of rose- and gold-shot taffeta and
a fox cape. A flat at Hawthorn awaits
the newly-married couple, who are at
present enjoying a leisurely motoring
trip in the country.
A sport in which the Richard Crooks
family of four participate is trout-fishing.
Tenor Richard has a “stag party” every
year up at his Canadian camp, Loon
Ledge, for which Mrs. Crooks (who
appears to be one of the world’s perfect
wives) prepares with a visit beforehand
to the camp. She sees that everything
is in order, that the stores are right, that
the staff is contented and all is well at
the house, which is really a series of log
cabins. The property of Loon Ledge,
which is 50 miles from the Atlantic coast,
includes a large track of forest country
and several miles of frontage on a river
that in that district is the boundary be-
tween Canada and the United States.
Up there the Crooks family is lost to
the world. The children, Patsy and Dick,
and their parents are up at break of day
for a swim and a breakfast cooked by
themselves out of doors. They also
enjoy canoeing, and Richard sen. and
jun. compete with one another target-
shooting. They are humanitarians, and
never hunt wild game ; the forest is full
of bear and deer. Mrs. Crooks has fur-
nished the Loon Ledge cabins with home-
spun rugs and curtains. She and her
guests drink from pewter mugs, and meals
are served upon wooden platters. So far
no photographs have ever been published
of Loon Ledge, it being the one nook
in the hearts of the Crooks family that
they keep to themselves.
One of last week’s fair-haired brides
was Judith Burston (Spencer Shier photo-
graph), who is now Mrs. Grahame
Davey. She is the eldest daughter of the
J. S. Burston couple, of Clowes-street,
South Yarra. Sister Noel, Lois Gotch,
Mollie Murray and Betty Thomson
were in the ice-blue wedding picture at
Melbourne Grammar School Chapel, for
the bride and her ’maids wore the
softest and palest shades of blue for
their satin gowns and tulle veils. The
’groom’s cavaliers were Ted Webb,
Donald Macrae, Phil Braddock and
Geoff Webster.
Those who work for the Prince Henry
Hospital building fund no longer have
the chance of forgetting for very long
the object of their affections, for the hos-
pital, now up 11 storeys, is a landmark
around the countryside. It was even
seen from the top deck of the Nestor, on
which ship the Building Fund Soc. held
a bridge party one afternoon last week.
It was too cold to play outside, so
tables were wedged into the smoke-
rooms and lounges and every snug nook
and cranny that could be found on board
the vessel. Mrs. Edward Campbell pro-
vided the flowers which decorated the
tables in the dining-room, where every-
body went for a much-appreciated tea.
Mrs. H. S. K. Ward produced bouquets
for the official guests. Among players
and concert addicts (there was music for
those who prefer to listen rather than to
have a mild flutter among the cards) little
fur capes were prevalent, and proved
particularly useful, for few but the newest
ships are as warm as they might be.
A brigade of young folk sold trifles to eat
and to smoke, also lucky-number tickets,
and seemed to do well in the matter of
handfuls of silver. Among those whose
lucky days and lucky numbers synchro-
nised were Mrs. W. H. Roddick, Miss
Angliss and Mrs. E. A. Smith, Mrs.
Smith’s prize being a letter-writing and
note-taking incentive in the form of twin
pen and pencil. Ticket secretaries for
the successful party were Mrs. E. A. Ben-
nett, who was all in black, Mrs. W.
Mackay, in a nautical shade of blue, and
Kathleen Wilson, who played a brick-
dust blouse as a contrasting note for her
teal-blue suit.
Cockroaches and other wild creatures
have had to find new homes and hunting-
grounds since the old Imperial in
Russell-street has been groomed and
renovated, so that the dismal catacomb
of the past has become a pleasant and
presentable theatre of intimate size
known as the Savoy. The old seats have
been rooted out and comfortable chairs
installed, the distempered walls have had
facial massage and stale damp air has
been whisked away by a modern system
of heating and ventilation. The Savoy
even ran to a red carpet over the rain-
splashed footpath on the opening night
of its, new career, devoted to the
presentation of Continental .films. For
the gala debut there was allotted the
priceless piece of humor “La Kermesse
Heroique.”
The audience, present by invitation, in-
cluded a sprinkling of the wealthy, the
social and the musical, those who speak
French, some intellectuals and some re-
fugees. The French Consul, M. Puaux,
introduced by the theatre’s general man-
ager, Peter Dawson (not to be confused
with the singer), made opening speeches
in two languages. He was accompanied
by Madame Puaux, obviously delighted
with her presentation bouquet. Others
present who appreciated the French
idiom of the film included M. Paul
Bibron, Mrs. H. K. Reddin and Collette,
and Raymond Lambert. General Blarney
was there with his wife, who wore black
with splashes of turquoise upon the skirt.
Tom Minogue brought fiancee Thelma
Bucknell, who had twisted a fillet of gold
into her dark hair. Judge and Mrs.
Foster were there, and the Robert Best
couple brought their niece, Joan Cleery,
the top of her head a cluster of curls and
her slim figure graceful in a long bro-
caded coat.
The Raynes Dicksons were seen, Mrs.
Dickson in black, with a cluster of mauve
and pink flowers at the base of her heart-
shaped neckline. Anne and Joan Fal-
kiner came along in furs of quality.
Rechid Bey, who escorted Judy Chirn-
side, added as an afterthought a red car-
nation for himself while purchasing gar-
denias for his fiancee earlier in the day.
Mrs. David Syme’s botanical touch ran
to a magnificent orchid and feathery
fronds of maidenhair. Sylvia Lane’s
preference was for a cottage-garden hand-
ful of gerberas, some in her hair, others
upon her corsage.


Enjoy more xest for work ond sport
~ . see your system is kept in
perfect regularity with that needed
drink of Gofcryst in warm
water. Golcryst works wonders in
keeping things right .. . itV safe,
pleasant, sure! Golcryst at 4d.,
Bd, and 1/3 from any chemist or
storel
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting ail
classes of Idle Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Missionaries in the North
“X.T.”: A missionary with an unusual
outlook on the abo. problem is the Rev.
Isabelle Merry, a Victorian Congrega-
tionalist.
According to the Rev. Merry, although
some abos. may be efficient police
workers, agriculturists, even Christians,
these disciplines make no real impression
on them, and they are incapable, in a
few years, of adopting a culture which
has destroyed their own.
She declares that all attempts to de-
tribalise the natives should be stopped,
and deprecates interfering with native
customs, putting blacks into pants and
encouraging them to gather round mis-
sion stations.
She advocates the segregation of
natives in inviolable reserves, to enable
them to preserve their culture and
organisation.
The lady admits that segregation would
not solve the problem permanently, be-
cause, inevitably, there would arise the
alternative between white settlement and
invasion by crowded exterior populations.
But she thinks that the policy would
serve for at least a century ; and she sees
no reason why the abo. should not ulti-
mately live, like the Maori, separated
from but side by side with the white
race.
In the Rev. Merry’s opinion, the abo.
problem would be much worse in some
ways but for the missions, but in other
ways it is much worse because of them.
A very unusual missionary indeed, and
her views must have startled the gather-
ing of fellow-missionaries to whom they
were delivered.
“X.T.”: The first job the new Native
Affairs Director takes on in the N.T. is
inspection of missions, which have
promised “full co-operation” with the
department. There are things in which
co-operation will not be possible, if the
N.A.D. does its job. Missions cannot
function without interfering with native
customs and native life in general. Labor
must be dredged from native tribes to
keep missions going. It is no use calling
Arnhem Land a native reserve if missions
are allowed to operate there on a large
scale —especially if the hint which has
been dropped, according to the Interior
Department, that “the missions might
extend operations and accommodation
if the Government offered financial assist-
ance,” bears fruit. The simple peoples
of Arnhem Land should be left in their
simplicity.
“Phildee”: You can’t beat northern
resourcefulness. Rob Hunter, who carries
the mail by boat between Broome and
Cape Leveque lighthouse, 160 miles further
north, was 40 miles or so from Broome
on his homeward trip when he saw a
ketch washed up on the beach. He
landed, followed footprints for about 100
yards, and discovered a bundle of sail
inscribed “Note under here.” Unable to
read or write, Hunter copied the words
on the bundle and the name of the ketch
—“Juanita, Townsville” —on to a piece
of board, and sailed to Broome. He
reached there on Wednesday evening, and
next morning policeman Merry and a
blacktracker hurried to the scene by
truck. A short search found half the
crew —Mrs. A. N. Johnson—after she
had been without water for 26 hours ; the
other half, her husband, was found four
hours later. They had been bound from
Sourabaya to Darwin when storms drove
them off their course ; they were becalmed
for three days, and then ran out of petrol,
so came ashore to seek aid. They owe
their lives to Hunter, Merry and the
tracker.
“Munni”: Hands up for Constable
Barkie Sailor, of Palm Island (N.Q.)!
Several natives, among them one of his
own boys, went missing in mid-May in
heavy south-easterly squall weather.
Barkie hopped into a sea full of sharks
and other terrors, swam four miles and
ran two miles to give the alarm. It saved
five lives and left the hero of the incident
a sick man.
* * * *
“Warrego”: In parts of western
Queensland juries blessed with a keen
sense of local patriotism long since
earned the reputation of never convict-
ing a local man. Macrossan, J., burst
out on a panel in a Quilpie breaking-
and-entering case: “It’s your verdict,
not mine. I do not think you are fit
to be a jury. You are discharged from
future attendance with a stigma on
“Hey, Ma! Wantcher t ’ meet me ol' shearin' mate!"
your names as having brought in a de-
liberately dishonest verdict.” But criticised
verdicts are usually not the result of
dishonesty. All plainsmen born suffer
from claustrophobia—l do myself after
a good many years away from the west.
The thought of locking a cove up in-
side walls makes a western juryman
shudder. I remember the attitude being
well exemplified many years ago when
a good man and true stood up in the
jurybox at Roma (Q.) and asked plain-
tively : “Can’t some of us give the poor
cow a good hiding and let him go?”
Judge said “No.” The jury let him go.
* * * *
“East Point”: Darwin still continues
to grow in civilisation. The Police
Magistrate’s job has been a casual affair.
C. J. Pigott held it down well, but he
is a high and busy official of The Lands
Department and had to give it up. The
clerk of courts, J. W. Nichols, then
started to combine his own billet with
that of magistrate, but overwork beat
him as well. C. K. Ward, a Sydney
barrister, has now taken over the office
as a whole-time job.
$ * * *
“Ek D.”: All the North has gone
mad on “rodeos.” At Rockhampton
fC.Q.) 20,000 people are expected to
view this year’s burst of. bucking, and
there is a prize schedule of £5OO. A
proposal is afoot to establish a regular
troupe to make an organised circuit of
the shows. Seems all right to me, if a
little variety could be introduced. If
there is anything more monotonous than
seeing the same sort of youth being
chucked off the same sort of flank-roped
and frightened steer or pony, or any-
thing less risky for those riders who
understand the job, I don’t know it. In-
troduce a few really dangerous sports
like catching the cock emu for amateurs
or a Mac Donnell Range eagle-carrying
handicap for ladies, and make the thing
go with a real bang.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Great expansion is taking
place in northern mail services. From
last week the Sydney-Salamaua services
have been duplicated. Mails for New
Guinea now leave Sydney on Wednes-
days and Sundays. Three days a week
there will be extra services between Bris-
bane and Sydney, and Cairns and Towns-
ville will have a double service every
day. Cairns and Sydney are almost
within the limits of a daylight run in
summer. Passengers can now leave at
7.30 a.m.. and land in Sydney, 1375 miles
away, at 8.30 p.m. And on the Brisbane-
Sydney run the first night passenger
service is working.
* * * *
“Gain”: The air is bringing New
Guinea a lot of luxuries which its jaded
exiles have hitherto looked on as the
appanages only of southern holidays. It
is scarcely possible for anybody who
knew the loneliness and isolation even
of the ports in the German time to
imagine the denizens of Wewak eating
fresh oysters from the Hawkesbury. Yet
that is the kind of thing which is hap-
pening. One consignment of 3501 b. was
distributed round the islands a week or
so ago, and fruit and cream go up almost
every trip.
Jfc * ❖ *
“Noosa Bill” : A little story from the
North shows the difference between fish-
ing and Fishing the capital is in
honor of Mr. Zane Grey and his school
of anglers. A Cairns waterside worker
went out in a boat and hooked an lift.
6in. shark. The shark objected. He took
the boat, kellick and all, and left for
the horizon. The two fishermen had two
hours’ ride without the trouble of row-
ing. Then the shark threw in the towel.
I’m thinking of organising a competition,
Australian style, to see how the inter-
nationals would get on with it —hand-
lines, stingaree or squid bait, no reels
allowed ; venue, round the Albany Pass,
where there are six sharks to the square
foot. It would be the talk of the world.
# * * *
“Ex-Mister”: Plans for the official
opening of the new harbor at Mackay
(N.Q.) on July 8 have been set back by
the disturbing discovery that the avail-
able depth in the basin is sft. short of
the 33ft. needed. The hitch has arisen
mainly because industrial trouble on Bris-
bane bucket-dredges has prevented them
from being taken north to help the Harbor
Board’s suction dredge, which is unable
to do the job unaided. Postponement
will involve lightering the season’s sugar
crop until the required depth is attained,
probably at least two months from the
opening of the crushing season early in
July. It will be an expensive job.
* * . • $ *
“Kaloa”: The Prime Minister says
that Australia will abide by the terms
of the Mandate which prohibit the for-
tification of New Guinea. Well, it’s great
to stick to your word. The only un-
fortunate fact is that there is no clause
in the Mandate to prevent any nation
with an avidity for colonial expansion
from invading mandated islands. Will
Mr. Menzies please have the omission
rectified?
*jt Jjt
“X.T.”: The more I see of northern
journalism the more I like it. Its
votaries can be more descriptive than
any special correspondent in Europe,
Asia, Africa or S. America when they
set their minds to it. Hark to our special
at Mt. Isa:
The days and nights are reminiscent of
something which Gilbert Frankau might
write anent the Riviera at the height of
the season and when he is in a good mood.
There are no rains, but, like Barkis, we
are quite willin’.
But I hand the palm to a scribe of
Innisfail:
A man while using a cane knife on
Tuesday evening suffered an incision to
the right great toe. He was transported by
ambulance to a private hospital.
I’ll say he was. A Queensland cane
knife —not to be compared with any
other cane knife —is just the instrument
to make an incision in the big toe or
neck. To perform operation on neck,
swing instrument with thumb and finger
in right hand and follow through, ele-
vating left hand as in Fascist salute to
catch spinning coconut of the incised.
The weapon is more deadly than a
kukri.
* * * *
“E.”: Who said Cooktown was so far
down on the list for a rifle club that
it would take 12 years to get a permit?
After Canberra heard that every eligible
youngster in the district was a volunteer
it gave in. Half the town turned up at
the first meeting.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: From last annual re-
port of the Sheriff of Darwin:
The approximate daily cost of mainten-
ance in the gaol, including clothing, is as
follows: Hard-labor prisoners, other than
abos., Is. sd.
What’s the recipe for getting into Darwin
gaol?
❖ >!< ❖ ❖
“Aileron”: Amazing the change which
has taken place in the Northern Terri-
tory attitude on transport. I remember
—vividly how in 1924 a Centralian
about the size of Mt. Gillen took his coat
off and offered to fight me because I
said I was not in favor of the Adelaide-
Darwin line. Now, no Territorian would
travel in a train north of the Alice if
there was one. The motor-lorry holds
sway. It gets over the ground quicker.
You can pack 40 men on a Territorian
lorry.
* ■ * * *
■ J.M.C.”: In one W.Q. township a
weekly event was the arrival for his mail
of a selector who owned a car but con-
sidered it too expensive to run. His
rather arresting substitute was a buck-
board drawn by a trotting cob and a
camel. The queer team was a great
success until in venturesome mood the
selector decided to discard the horse and
ride the camel. He reached town safely,
but forgot the necessary word of com-
mand to make the brute kneel. After
exhausting his vocabulary and disregard-
ing the offer of an enthusiastic member
of the fire brigade to bring a blanket,
he eventually manoeuvred close to a tele-
phone pole and slid down. His next
trip for mail was in the car.


j
ĵ
The Whisky that
gets “round”!
How does a whisky get “round”? It’s a matter of time and skill-
time for the whiskies to mature in the wood, skill to blend them all
in perfect harmony. Many, many whiskies are needed to give
Johnnie Walker its subtle perfection, its “roundness” and smooth-
ness. Reputations “get round” too. That’s why you’ll hear so many
people ask for Johnnie Walker by name, and it’s a good example to
follow if you want Scotch Whisky at its best and smoothest.
I /SBJsH
\
JOHNNIE
WAhKER
walks away with it!
BORN 1820— STILL GOING STRONG
%
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY


BRANDAIJERrS
m
6<T.V
FPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BRAHDADKK * CO.. LUL. BIRMINGHAM. UNO
COVERAGE
COUNTS!
ITS CERTAIN THROUGH
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. Georgt’s Tee., Perth
ft
y*&:s
Q " o>y **■
°y . n*
H>.
T. JONES e CO.
CHEMIST...3I4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Radio Remote Control.
When push-button tuning for broad-
cast receivers was introduced opinions
were conflicting as to the need for such
an innovation. But for receivers
designed for use in the main city centres
push-button has come to stay. There
are so many programme items of
interest calling for speedy change from
one station to another that the quick
tuning the method gives is handy in the
extreme.
The most interesting development in
modern broadcast receiver tuning con-
trols is the Philco “mystery control.” It
Arrangement of the Philco remote
control unit.
has been dealt with at length in
American technical publications, and the
scheme is outlined briefly here. Funda-
mentally the idea is simplicity itself. It
is a method of remotely controlling the
tuning of a broadcast receiver by means
of a device which is not line-connected
to the receiver in any way. The receiver
can be tuned automatically to any one
of a predetermined number of stations,
the volume level adjusted and the band
switching altered, all from a unit less
than 12in. square.
The system is arranged for the remote
tuning of eight stations. In order to
tune in a station a telephone type dial
is operated, and within 15 seconds die
receiver is tuned to the station dialled.
Should the volume be excessive or too
low, this can be adjusted by using the
soft or loud controls on the dial.
As the circuit shows, the controller is
an oscillator complete with its own
power supply. The dial, which has 10
positions, is connected to a pulsating
mechanism which times the return on
the dial so that connection is made to
different points at regular intervals. The
dial acts also as an on-off switch, for
immediately it is rotated the filament
supply is connected to the oscillator.
After the dial has been rotated it returns
to normal, but connects the oscillator
grid intermittently to the filament. This
sets up an oscillation in the primary
inductor for each stop on the pulser
mechanism. As the dial stops it auto-
matically disconnects the filament
supply, for by that time the station will
have been accurately tuned in.
A large frame aerial is fitted to the
base of the receiver cabinet and tuned to
the frequency of the controller oscil-
lator. In this way pulses from the oscil-
lator are picked up and amplified by
means of a 78 and 6J7G. A 6ZYSG
diode is used as an A.V.C. valve to
maintain an even input to a 2A4G
Thyratron, with the second diode used as
an attenuator to strong peaks which
might cause the Thyratron valve to
function over too long a period. Out-
put stage of the control amplifier is also
an argon-filled Thyratron, similar to a
conventional gas-filled rectifier with a
grid. A rectifier passes current during
the entire portion of the A.C. cycle in
which the plate is positive with respect
to the cathode. A grid inserted between
plate and cathode permits current flow
only during that portion of the cycle in
which the grid has correct bias.
If both grid and plate voltages are
taken from the same A.C. source, their
phase difference can be arranged so that
the grid will permit current flow during
the half-cycle in which the plate is posi-
tive with respect to the cathode, so that
no plate current will flow between these
limits. Plate current of the 2A4G
energises the holding relay and permits
operation of the stopping relay. The
stepper assembly houses a holding and
a stepping relay. When the Thyratron
lights, the holding relay closes and the
stepping relay switches a ratchet as many
times as the pulses originated in the con-
trol box. There are primary and
secondary ratchets, and the stepper relay
operates the primary ratchet, which is
connected to the primary switch. This
switch controls the volume control
motor and shorts the speech coil of the
speaker to earth in the station-selecting
positions. A switch which connects the
plates of the output valves together is
closed during the operation. The re-
ceiver operates during changes in
volume, but is muted as the secondary
ratchet returns to the home position and
climbs to the station dialled. •
T. S. W. R.
Rewinding Field Coils.
Universal adoption of 2500-ohm and
lower-resistance field coils for use in
filters of electric receivers, power ampli-
fiers, etc., has made obsolete many
speakers capable of good performance.
These are often either of the high-resist-
ance field type (7500 or 8000 ohms) or
of the A.C. variety, incorporating very
low-resistance fields fed from step-down
transformers and rectifiers. Rewinding
is often worth while, and can easily be
done with a lathe or coil-winder.
The size of the speaker and the amount,
of audio it has to handle determine the
wattage to be dissipated in setting up the
necessary magnetic flux in the air-gap.
For instance, in an A.C. speaker measured
voltage across the field shows six while
the current passing is two amps. This
gives 12 watts, and this figure must be
maintained, no matter to what new re-
sistance the field is wound. The current
to be passed in a 2500-ohm field to dissi-
pate 12 watts is given by
/w / 12
V or /
r 2500
or, reduced to milliamps., approximately
69.
Reference to a wire table shows that,
working to 1000 amps, per sq. in. of sec-
tional area, 32 s.w.g. is the nearest even
gauge suitable (33 would do, but odd
sizes are often hard to obtain). To make
up 2500 ohms in this size, nearly lu
pounds of wire would be needed. Since
this amount would call for a very large
“pot” it is better to work at 1200 amps,
per sq. in. (quite a safe figure in this
instance, although not always applicable
to power transformer design), which per-
mits the use of five pounds of 34 s.w.g.
to reach 2500 ohms.
Since such a field coil would be of use
only in comparatively small power packs
passing about 60ma. or 70ma., better use
could no doubt be found for the speaker
with a 1000- or 1250-ohm field. The
same procedure, however, is followed,
and, as example, a 12-watt field of 1000
ohms would call for seven pounds of
30 s.w.g. (at 1000 amps, per sq. in.) or
four pounds of 32 s.w.g. (at 1200 amps,
per sq. in.).
A 7500-ohm field presents no difficulty.
A typical case of one requiring 1\ watts
means rewinding with 3| pounds of 35
s.w.g. (1000 amps, per sq. in.) or 2{
pounds of 36 s.w.g. (1200 amps, per sq.
in.) to reach 2500 ohms.
It is interesting to note in passing that
the tendency in sound equipment where
high levels are handled is away from the
electro-dynamic speaker and towards the
permanent-magnet type in its larger sizes.
When worked at high flux densities the
energised type nearly always becomes
hot, and this fact, together with power
wastage and the need for extra wiring
to carry field current, makes it unpopu-
lar. Furthermore, it is harder to engi-
neer field coils into the filter systems of
high-power audio equipment than those
of broadcast receivers.
R. H. A.
Radio Comment.
“Valdemar”: There have been a few
instances of humans who claim to be
able to hear radio broadcast programmes
without the aid of a radio receiver. Per-
haps the most interesting case is that of
a man now being sought by an American
broadcasting concern. In May, 1938, the
broadcasting co.’s engineers investigated
a complaint by one John Morskowsky
that their programmes kept him awake
through no fault of his own. Conclusion
was that his teeth were the sensitive
element. In the course of his daily work
as a knife-sharpener, carborundum col-
lected in the teeth fillings and functioned
as detectors on the principle of a crystal
receiver. Switching off a bedside reading-
lamp removed a partial circuit caused
by the filament, and the metal bedstead
.then became an efficient aerial. Musical
items heard by Morskowsky were
checked and tallied with the programmes
from the co.’s station near by. Mor-
skowsky left America for Czechoslovakia,
and the broadcasting co. has a repre-
sentative searching for him throughout
Europe.
* * * *
“Cluny”: Why won’t the “sixpence-a-
week-service” people tackle A.C.-D.C.
jobs? I’ve heard one reason —that the
valve filaments are wired up in series,
instead of parallel, so that “one blown”
means “all blown.” The same does not
apply to battery sets, where a blown
valve-filament usually amounts to little
more than a break in the circuit unless
B-current is hitched into the wrong
circuit. But is that the only reason?
[Failure of the filament of one valve
in a series wired circuit doesn’t neces-
sarily mean that the remaining valves
are blown. That would be likely only
in the case of a sudden high voltage over-
load, but protection against that is
afforded by the barretter valve. One
filament failure will put the receiver out
of action, but replacement of the dead
valve will put things right. The
A.C./D.C. receiver is really a com-
promise, and servicemen regard it as a
nuisance. Basically, it is as sound as any
other receiver, with the difference that
the performance does not quite com-
pare with that of the A.C. receiver from
an engineering viewpoint.—Ed.]
* * * *
“L.McD.” writes of a New Guinea
radio problem:
Australians in N.G. using short-wave re-
ceivers for news of doings at home are experi-
encing in mild form the trials in store for
short-wave communications during war-time.
They rely on Lyndhurst (VLR) for daily
transmissions from Australia, but for nearly
a year a Morse background from Japan has
interfered seriously with reception of the Vic-
torian station.
A.B.C. has relayed complaints from the
Territory to radio experts of the P.M.G.’s De-
parment; these technicians have appealed to
Tokio, so far without much result. Tokio
authorities have eased the interference slightly,
but the available ether is already crammed with
international short-wave broadcasters. Until
it is enlarged short-wave reception the world
over looks like being subject to accidental
interference.
Cairo’s International Telecommunications
Conference of 1938 shied at the touchy job of
reallotting short-wave rights. It is a task that
must soon be tackled by some sort of world
conference, for the bureau in Berne (Switzer-
land) which registers national claims to the
limited number of wave-lengths is being inun-
dated with “interference” complaints from
every country.
Fair allocation of wave-length rights would
minimise this interference in times of peace.
In war-time success will go to the strongest-
powered transmitters. It might be a good idea
as a defence project for the Commonwealth
to establish a more powerful Lyndhurst. It
would have the peace-time advantage, too, of
giving Australian listeners in the tropics a
better chance of smothering interference from
foreign transmitters wobbling into the Aus-
tralian short-wave band.
* * * *
“Norwood”: Valve-sockets have been
improved upon but little. In the old-
time four-prong days, sockets were made
with snap-springs that ruled out most
chances of a loose contact, but to secure
electrical and mechanical tension on
upwards of seven pins something more
than a vertical grip is required. I always
spread the holders out from or in
towards the centre before mounting a
valve, to secure lateral tension, which
works quite satisfactorily. The matter
should be taken care of in the factory
designing-room, instead of at the instal-
lation end.
[With the introduction of the octal-
base, valve sockets have improved con-
siderably, and little trouble is encoun-
tered with the wafer-type in this respect.
The earlier wafer sockets of local manu-
facture for four-, five-, six- and seven-
pin valves were troublesome largely be-
cause of unsuitable spring metal. The
contacts exert very little pressure on the
valve pins, and after a little use leave an
open circuit. The modern American
ceramic or polystrene octal socket is
faultless —but 4s. 6d. a time is far too
much for a socket. —Ed.]
Amateur Chatter.
On the lower frequencies poor con-
ditions prevail generally, signals on 7mc.
in particular being characterised by
seasonal patchiness. The usual strong
signals from ZLs on 3.5mc. have been
lost in a noisy band, but 28mc. shows
for long periods very strong signals from
Americans, Hawaiians and Maorilanders.
Just now this band is open from around
8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Sydney time. There
are scarcely any C.W. telegraphy signals
on the band, and the man hopefully
seeking DX or other contacts by medium
of the key is likely to burn up a lot
of power to little effect.
VK2ACP is the station of W. Zech,
located at Megalong-street, Katoomba,
Blue Mountains (N.S.W.). “Bill” Zech
is an old hand in N.S.W. amateur radio.
Recently he lost his eyesight. The trans-
mitter pictured here is heard daily on
C.W. in the 7000 kc. band, and is a two-
stage crystal-controlled rig using 6L6Gs.
In previous years Zech was well known
under the call VK2WZ. Plans are under
way to equip VK2ACP with 56mc. appa-
ratus in the near future.
Plans are in hand at VK2AHM
for a 56mc. station using 6V6G crystal
oscillator with 807 power-doubler, and
a few other country VK2’s are reported
to be constructing equipment for the
band. VK2AHM plans a 16-wavelengths
horizontally polarised V beam for C.W.
transmission on 56mc. Bruce Mann, of
VK3BM, now has a 56mc. transmitter,
engineered recently by VK2IQ, and
something is expected from this station’s
many high and lengthy aerial systems. A
receiver is under way for 3BM in the
workshop of VK3KU.
Current issue of “Break-In,” official
organ of N.Z.A.R.T., contains informa-
tion that ZLs 3KB and 2VM intend
shortly to put a 100-watt crystal-
controlled 56mc., automatically-keyed
transmitter on top of Mount Victoria
(M.L.), with beams directed on Sydney
and San Francisco, to see what can be
done.
Convention agenda items of major im-
portance for W.I.A. policy for the ensu-
ing year include a request for bands at
112mc. and 224mc., extension of port-


MICROPHONES
j
Get the utmost pleasure
from your Radio Set by
fitting a Microphone to
do your own broadcast-
ing. Thousands already
in use.
Made from standard
P.M.G. parts. Also suit-
able for public address
work. Complete witli
Transformer, Battery
a.nd F’exib’e Cord.
Original price .. 22/t
50 only to
clear at
Post Free.
12/6
WILLIAM BLOGG (Est. 1926),
. ... Telephone Engineer,
Australia House, Wynyard Square, Sydney.
NO TROUBLE
CARRY
'.V*
mm,
mfc
m*
am
WMMm
wMsik
mk
mmm*
©
ĵ
A modern electric torch weighs but
a few ounces —is no trouble to carry
—and yet think of the fumbling and
stumbling its friendly brilliance saves
you "after dark!" Every motorist
should keep one in the side pocket
of his car; every outdoor man should
keep one in his pack. Even around
the house it has a thousand and one
practical uses. .
Whether you have a torch,
or buy a new "Ever Ready”
to-morrow, remember that
it is useless while it is
empty. Remove used bat-
teries promptly and re-
place with "factory fresh”
Ever Ready Torch Refills.
Ever Ready
TORCHES AND TORCH REFILLS
T2fi
able permits for defined periods, Federal
co-ordination of 56mc. activity and appli-
cation for increased power at 28mc. and
higher frequencies.
Considerable interference is being ex-
perienced by Sydney Western Suburbs
56mc. stations VK2IQ and VK2PS, com-
munication during important aerial tests
being disrupted by strongly radiating
super-regenerative receivers in the
vicinity. If super-regen. receivers must
be used temporarily, they should be of
the type incorporating a separate quench
oscillator. Those of the self-interrupting
type are hopeless radiators, approximat-
ing in behavior a low-power transmitter
of a very unstable character. In any
case, super-regen. receivers should not in
any circumstances be used these days
without an R.F. or aerial-coupling valve
ahead of the detector. Although little
R.F. gain may be contributed thereby,
the receiver can be used with the know-
ledge that it causes little or no interfer-
ence to other experimenters. The writer
had an experience of very bad super-
regen. interference, during which the
entire band on a seven-valve superhet
was wrecked for reception. Mention oi
the matter through the transmitter micro-
phone fixed things up, and next day the
offender put in a personal appearance
with an apology. He was located nearly
two miles distant, and was using a
squegger receiver with no aerial what-
ever connected. If such a receiver can
cause havoc minus an aerial, it is easy to
realise the widespread nature of such
interference with a high and well-con-
structed aerial attached.
Winter conditions are noticeable on
the lower frequencies. There is no night
reception on 7mc. of many local and
country stations familiar a few weeks
ago. But the band is by no means dead.
Those who like to push a key with the
many Americans audible can get across
with very little trouble. It is as useful
aDX band as ever. DX still goes along
on 14mc., but signs are not lacking of
the drift to generally unfavorable condi-
tions. ’Phone contacts with Europeans
and even Americans are difficult, but
C.W. goes through as well as ever. It’s
a consoling thought for the keyman that
he will, even when the 11-year cycle is
at the DX minimum, be able to raise DX
at intervals, as his forerunners did during
the “dead” 14mc. period of 1929-1936.
By about 1942 the “20-metre fones” will
probably have disappeared.
M.L.’s “Break-In” has some revealing
things to say about feeder-spreader
leakages. ZL4FX is located at Cape
Saunders lighthouse, and stations in such
locations have problems all their own.
Being exposed to the sea and salt, spray
in the air will attack aluminium con-
densers, etc. At Cape Saunders after a
southerly gale the resistance of the
paraffined dowel feeder spreader drops
to 5000 ohms only. This is due to the
salt spray on them. Think what a short-
ing circuiting resistance this would be
with, say, 20 spreaders! Even with
isolantite it is necessary after a southerly
buster to take down the feeders and
scrub the spreaders unless rain does the
job beforehand. One day the resistance
of all the paralleled spreaders was
150,000 ohms, according to a com-
mercial analyser.
VK2AHM, of Wentworth (N.S.W.),
will commence transmission shortly on
56mc. Frequency will be 56,620 kc. from
a Bliley-type HF2 crystal. R. J. White
intends to operate this station at some
time during every 24 hours, with
schedules on Saturdays and Sundays
from 3 p.m. Sydney time. Transmission
will be both C.W. and ’phone.
Following the scheme outlined in the
article “VK2NO 56mc. Crystal Exciter”
(B. 19/4/’39), VK3YT has altered a
doubler from parallel to series tuning
with greatly-increased output. This trans-
mitter uses a 6V6G crystal oscillator with
a 40-metre crystal, followed by 6L6G,
6L6 and 807 as a straight 56mc. final
stage.
At Singleton (N.S.W.), VK2VU still
receives the 56mc. transmissions from
Con Bischoff’s Wentworth Falls station,
VK2LZ, consistently—speech is RB, tele-
graphy R 9. Despite the fact that VK2VU
now has a vertical two-section BJK beam
array, and is on 56mc. with crystal-con-
trolled C.W. transmission, nothing has
yet been heard of any signal from the
Singleton end. It is conjectured that
VK2VU has hit an inter-
mediate harmonic, and is
not actually radiating in the
56mc. band. Time and in-
vestigation alone will tell.
More stations are appear-
ing on 56mc. around Syd-
ney, latest being VK2HZ,
who commenced with C.W.
on 29/5/’39. Gear at
VK2HZ is reported to be of
the electro n-oscillator
variety, starting off at 160
metres through an array of
stages and winding up with
a power doubler at 56mc.
VK2PS, of Croydon
(N.S.W.), is heard at the
writer’s location with a
strong signal on speech and
C.W. The signal from this
station is an object-lesson
to those who find crystal-controlled trans-
mitters something of a bogey.
VK2NO.
"Bulletin" Test Review.
( Manufacturers’ products considered worthy of
attention are tested and given an unbiased
report in this section.)
Philips Model 1952 Radioplayer.
A combination of designs is embodied
in Philips type 1952 receiver in the new
1939 series. In B. 3/5/’39 the 1941
broadcast range mantel model was re-
viewed, followed by the 1852 dual-range
console in B. 17/5/’39. The 1952 model
illustrated here is actually an 1852 chassis
fitted to the same attractive type of
moulded mantel cabinet as the 1941. The
performance is identical with the first-
rate operation of the 1852, with the ad-
vantage of compactness and portability.
Outwardly, the receiver cannot be dis-
tinguished at first appearances from the
MODEL 1925.
1941 model, but closer inspection shows
that the dial is calibrated for short-wave
coverage between 13 and 33 metres in
addition to the broadcast range, and that
there is an extra knob at the right of the
cabinet for wave-change.
The receiver is intended for 240-volt
A.C. supply, with provision by the makers
for operation from 220-volt or 260-volt
supply if required. The adjustment can
be made quickly, but it must be made by
a competent service mechanic.
The 1952 model tested in a Sydney
location was sensitive enough to play
the major overseas stations around 31,
25, 19 and 16 metres at more than re-
quisite volume with a very small aerial.
Everything marked on the broadcast
range could be heard under similar con-
ditions, including 2YA (Maoriland), and
later at night several Westralian broad-
casters. In every way the performance
was excellent and the audio quality of
good calibre.
Valves used in the design are: EK2G
octode mixer-oscillator, 6U7G R.F. pen-
tode as I.F. amplifier, 686 G duo-diode-
triode second detector, EL3G audio
power pentode and SY3G rectifier. The
conversion gain of the EK2G octode is
well demonstrated by the short-wave sen-
sitivity, for this is the input valve at
signal frequency. There is no R.F.
amplifier ahead of this, and inclusion of
such a stage would be a waste of com-
ponents by virtue of the high efficiency
of the octode.
As with the receivers reviewed previ-
ously, the hallmark of 1939 radio engi-
neering practice stamps the chassis.
Examination reveals features such as
girder suspension in live rubber, air-
trimmed tuned circuits and rigorous pre-
cautions against moist climatic condi-
tions.
With the receiver is a booklet dealing
with installation, operation and mainten-
ance, though really, after removal from
the packing carton, all that is necessary
is to connect an aerial and earth, plug in
the power connector, and tune in. Price
is 17 guineas. Further particulars are
obtainable from Philips Lamps (Austral-
asia), Philips House, 69-73 Clarence-
street, Sydney.
The Question Box.
(i) j’ m bringing a receiver to Sydney from
New Guinea for overhaul. Tuning is trouble-
some, the dial being small and marked in
degrees, but results are fairly good. Would it
be possible to have the receiver made easier
/q tune.? (2) As l shall be remaining in Syd-
ney, could the receiver be altered for 240 volts
A - c - operation?— 7Bl.
0) and (2) Yes Best thing is to discuss the
matter with the radio editor at this office, when
rece j ver can b e inspected and further ad-
vice given.


The Richardson Chain Hotel
M
I
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
A
„J w
Mr*
P>
lx?
‘l/3
d-1 £ r"
?
A*
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £4,000,000.
FIRE ... MARINE ...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
" DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
More Stud Export.
“Ghanam”: Baulked by the Australian
export embargo on merinos, overseas
competitors are turning to Corriedales.
The U.S.A. has already established the
breed with stud sheep from Australia and
M.L.; and Japan has bought several
thousand for Korea. A few days ago
30 stud Corriedale ewes went from S.
Australia to Cape Province, S. Africa.
Corriedales are .comparatively unim-
portant in Australia, but what should
interest us is what overseas buyers can
make of them. What might be the effect
on the general market if overseas growers
began to produce the finer types of
Corriedale fleece on a large scale?
No stud sheep good enough for any
outsider to covet should be allowed to
leave Australia—except, of course, the
purely English or other breeds already
well established or obtainable in quan-
tity elsewhere.
Jetting Efficiency.
“Sheepo”: Jetting was first ,introduced
in Queensland, and early results caused
optimists to see the end of their blowfly
troubles. Now few stations bother about
the operation.
With crutching, jetting gives protection
for a period, but it won’t prevent sheep
becoming daggy, and it is risky to jet
with arsenical mixtures until six weeks
after crutching. If shear cuts have not
healed, jetting fluid applied at high pres-
sure is apt to open up the wounds.
The secret of dealing with strike seems
to lie in the close clipping of wool from
and about the affected parts, dislodging
the maggots and dressing the wound.
Crutching twice a year in normal seasons
gives the best results in dealing with
struck sheep ; in abnormal seasons, when
flies will strike anywhere, jetting serves
a useful purpose if carried out before
crutching, and not earlier than six weeks
after.
Drenching for Worms.
“Bungaree”: Drenching may be un-
successful w'ith heavy infestations of
worm parasites unless the sheep are put
into clean paddocks. The only way to
save sheep is to drench often.
Certain drenches are effective against
mature worms. The C.S. and I.R. experi-
mented recently to determine their effect
against immature parasites, particularly
the large stomach worm (Hcemonchus
contortus). Carbon tet., bluestone, blue-
stone and sodium arsenite and bluestone
and nicotine sulphate were tested.
It was found that a percentage of
Hcemonchus contortus reached the egg-
producing stage when 15 days old,
although most took 25 to 30 days.
Drenching, therefore, could succeed only
when carried out at such short intervals
as to prevent continuous infestation of
pastures —say every 10 or 14 days for
sheep on heavily-stocked country where
spelled paddocks are not available.
The experiment proved that no drench
would work in the same way against
young worms as against mature, ones..
Bluestone solution had practically no
effect against young Hcemonchus con-
tortus. Carbon tet. gave better results,
but is not so good as a mixture of blue-
stone and sodium arsenite. .Best results
were obtained with a mixture of blue-
stone and nic. sulph.
Queensland Exports Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Queensland first exported
wheat 35 years ago, when in the bumper
season following the 1902-03 drought
some parcels were consigned to the U.K.
Since then N.S.W. has regularly been
drawn upon to supply the home-produc-
tion deficiency, but this season the north-
ern State has shipped nearly \\ million
“Now that old Dobbin Won't be usin' it any more, we might as Well make a bit extra dough.
bushels of its record crop of 8| million
bushels.
Of 439,540 acres (including hay crops)
sown last year 60 p.c. were of Queens-
land-bred varieties produced by R. E.
Soutter at Roma. Four of his varieties
were among the first half-dozen in the
last acreage census —Flora 58,659 acres,
C.C.C. 41,967 acres, Seafoam 37,669
acres and Novo 34,692 acres. Farrer’s
Florence ranked second with 43,272
acres, and the Indian Pusa 4 fourth with
39,945 acres. Ford (most popular variety
in N.S.W.) filled seventh position with
31,445 acres.
C.C.C. and Seafoam (Cretan x Come-
back x Comeback) have a double cross
of Farrer, and Novo is a cross between
Bobs and Comeback, two of Farrer’s
best.
The average yield from 400,000 acres
harvested for grain was 21| bushels per
acre.
The Queensland crop is vested in the
Wheat Board, which has operated a com-
pulsory pool for several years. By special
arrangement under the Commonwealth
home-consumption scheme, the board’s
selling price to millers is fixed on Sydney
f.o.b. value, plus 2\d. per bushel.
W.A. Wheats.
“Gluten”: The 1938 census of the acre-
age of wheat varieties in Westralia indi-
cates an 85 p.c. concentration on weak-
flour types that have made the State’s
reputation for uniform quality of grain.
Six of the seven most favored varieties
are W.A.-bred, and two of them have
given excellent results in N.S.W.
Bencubbin heads the list with 1,306,895
acres, or 30 p.c. of- the total area of
3,561,728 acres. Its replacement of
Nabawa, which a few years ago repre-
sented 50 p.c. of the acreage, is being
rapidly followed in NiS.W. -
Gluclub (494,039 acres), Merridin
(306,522), Gluyas Early (205,315), Tota-
gin (203,371), Noongar (195,086) follow,
with Nabawa (169j802) seventh. .
Highly resistant to flagsmut, Nabawa
and Bencubbin have been of great ser-
vice to the industry'in N.S.W. as well as
in the Wert. Totagin is also resistant,
and is still under trial in N.S.W. as an
early wheat for the dry districts.
Lucerne on the Coast.
“Lam”: Don’t try mixtures with N. S.
Wales and Queensland coastal lucerne.
Mixed grazing paddocks have their uses,
but when dealing with a sown winter
.pasture the less variety the better. On
higher sub-coastal country a combina-
tion with the suitable ryes, phalaris and
—further north —Rhodes grass is sound
but nearer the sea stick to
lucerne straight.
Lucerne needs a firm under-surface to
its soil and a well-tilled, free-top surface,
and it is best sown after a long fallow.
Good drainage is more necessary than
with most, fodders. A gentle slope with
no seepages is ; better than a flat, unless
there is great depth of soil and ready
seepage. /
With the seed—say 81b. to 1 lib. an
acre—sow bacterial culture, which any
Agricultural Department, will supply, and
2cwt. super. On light soils, y-ton To the
acre carbonate of lime every third year;
on all land, super, every spring.
Further north, an experiment with a
winter dressing of 401 b. to of sul-
phate of . ammonium is worth trying.
Never cut lucerne before leaf buds
have developed thoroughly at the base
of the plants, unless drought makes top-
ping-off needful. Once the leaf-bud stage
is reached moderate grazing or cutting
helps, 1 but never leave stock too long in
a lucerne patch.
As for weeds —lucerne will do its own
eradication, if it is properly sown and
given a fair chance to establish itself.
Pasture Tests in S.A.
“J. Want”: The C.S. and I.R. has
been making interesting experiments with
pasture in the 20in.-rainfall country
round Clare - (S.A.) —Anama (Central
Bungaree) is. the centre of operations.
The soils are red and redrbrown, fer-
tile sandy or clay loams. There are stone
outcrops on an undulating terrain. Rain
comes . about April and continues for
seven months. -
The country is savannah woodland
carrying sheep. There, are several useful
native grasses, but the bulk of the spring
grazing is provided by. introduced
annuals. Barley grass, soft brome grass,
wild oats, clovers in several varieties and
some odd growths are interlarded heavily
with Cape tulip, which has killed many
a strange sheep—local woollies pass it by.
The main objection to it where sheep are
home-bred is that it reduces carrying
capacity. .
Recent trials were made with the
Hunter River grass Pkalaris tuberosa,
perennial rye and Wimmera rye, put
down with early Dwalganup and Mt.
Barker (mid-season) sub. clovers. The
ryes went in at the rate of 61b. to the
acre, phalaris at -41 b. Super, was drilled
in before sowing—2cwt. to the acre. The
ground was well fallowed. Seeds were
raked in on-several plots in 1935.
Four samplings have been taken since,
each followed by grazing. Phalaris and
Dwalganup gave a better gross yield .of
feed after, having been in three years,
though it must be admitted that the last
year was a year.for rain—24.3in. against
a normal average, of just over 20in. Wim-
mera gave a better grass yield than
(i Continued on page 44.)


iIMITI
in the Safest car you can drive
mm
m
m
v
bsggg?;’ m
•mi
-Xi;
mm
UNDERmFOC
- m »»»SAFE puce
* EMERGENCY
•* w , tnl,|r ‘mi
'We be of°“ W f ' Vha ‘ ch ®
*™* e and stop • ' 5 ,1,8 for **a
Hudson —and only ?"" J ,n,e? In
mechanical em ,> * a IIll(^o n ~ 0i
« beJ °Mgs—n /I</^ e " C7 l,rake is nh ej
Safe Hydraulics. J foot/ °oubh
rake is ««ed OMj for eaSy ' actin S ham
parking.
'HUDSON’S
HTWIO
OOUBI[-
SAFI
FOR 1939
1939 Hudson Eight “ One-Twenty-TWo” Country Club Sedan.
# There isn’t another car on the road with quite this same
style appeal. Fresh, new. . .without a hint of the common-
place. . .Hudson’s own! Nor is there another car so rich
in new and important ideas that add to your comfort,
your satisfaction. . .and your safety. . .while you motor.
Only Hudson gives you the extra protection of Double-
Safe Hydraulics (described at right). Only Hudson pro-
vides Auto-Poise Control to help you hold the wheels to
their course automatically, even if a tyre blows out!
LOWEST PRICED
HUDSONS IN HISTORY
HUDSON “ONE-TWELVE”
HUDSON “ONE-EIGHTEEN”
HUDSON COUNTRY CLUB SERIES
Hudson Motor-car Company.
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED
(Incorporated in England),
Sir John Young Crescent,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney.
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS, LTD.,
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
(Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide.)
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
West Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland Distributors:
OVERLAND, LTD.,
Cnr. Constance & Wickham Sts.,
Brisbane.
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-73 Bathurst Street, Hobart,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.


mm
3248,
j
We don’t wish to brag about our Footwear, but this Boot is really worth
mentioning. Double Soles, Water-resisting Ooze Calf Uppers, reinforced
Elastic in sides and Leather lining throughout.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in wide and extra-wide fittings.
Price 47/6 in Brown.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe."
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
CONCRETE SILOS
INCREASE FARM PROFITS
Ensilage and
fodder con-
servation in-
crease the
profits derived
from the
farm. The
dangers
of crop and
pasture short-
age through
drought are
nearly entirely
eliminated by
the possession
of a perma-
nent concrete
silo, and its
owner is also
p r otected
against loss
of stored feed
supply
through fire
or storm.
ĵ
Because of its
freedom from
maintenance
the first cost
of a concrete
silo is the
only cost. For
satis factory
service over
the longest
period of
time the con-
crete silo is
s u pre m e.
There are
three com-
mon types of
concrete Silos
monolithic,
block and
concrete
stave.
Write to Us or to Individual Member Cement Companies for the following
Booklets:
CONCRETE FOR FARM AND CONCRETE REPAIRS LEAKING TANKS
STATION
CONCRETE TROUGHS, TANKS AND
METHOD OF MAKING CONCRETE WELLS
CONCRETE SILOS CONCRETE FENCE POSTS
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT MANUFACTURERS
ASSOCIATION
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON STREET, SYDNEY. 'PHONE: 82471.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPRO VLD BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It—Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 850 Sold—Shell Co., 60 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., 15.
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
I
-vf'
r>hr,i u t u i ii t
phalanx, but phalaris seasonally mates up
with the sub. clover better. The experi-
menters recommend 31b. phalaris to 51b.
clover.
Perennial rye and early species of sub.
clover are comparative failures. It will
be worth watching to see what happens
to the Cape tulip.
Sowing Maize.
“Hortus”: Are widely-spaced rows
more susceptible to insect attack and
disease infection?
TOC TT . o .
In Sydney RAX competition (N.
Tablelands) a Wellingrove crop on a very
old chocolate-loam cultivation took one
of the awards. Mouldboard-ploughed
6in. in February, it was reploughed late in
November, harrowed and sown on
November 23. Seed was dropped two
grains every 30in. behind plough, and
covered. Rows were sft. apart. Very
little insect attack and slight Fusarium
cob rot follow f d c i own cr j“*- The
season was very dry. Estimated yield was
40 bushels.
A Hickory King crop on a medium-
.■, \ • T
}°™’ mouldboard-ploughed m June
J^ as harrowed, rolled, cross-ploughed and
harrowed in October, and sown on
October 10. It was check-sown in rows,
3ft - B * n - a P art > with three grams per hill.
Super., |cwt., was added. Crop was parti-
cularly clean, having been scuffled four
times. There was noticeable earworm
attack and secondary cob rot. Too high
a percentage of the 10-row type of
Hickory King was the result, and there
was another 40-bushel crop
Tibe winning crop on heavy black oa.n,
had a yield of 65 bushels, using Wellin-
grove seed. Mouldboard-ploughed sin. in
August, it was scarified and harrowed
twice before sowing in late October. This
crop was check-sown at 3ft. Bin., three
grains being dropped at each hill. No fer-
tiliser was used. Maize earworm caused
a lot of damage. Water had entered
through worm punctures, causing second-
ary infection of cob rot. There was also
some root rot.
More Rotat!on ; .... „ .
“K.Mc.”: Fallowing ana fertilising ao
not prevent farm lands becoming “worn
out” unless crop rotation is practised.
and maize field competitions show
™he K ind matte held.compe
mat 'forbears outyield those continu-
lare 101 w y
a Continual cropping robs the soil of
organ j c ma tter, and humus is not re-
pj acec j. This results in a change of the
crumb structure, and the soil becomes a
prey to botb w jnd and water.
v Suitable rotations vary according to
soil and C n m ate. For Condobolin dis-
trict (N.s.W.), wheat, grazing oats,
fallow is recommended, repeated four
12 years-and followed
by grazing lucerne for four years.
The system calls for mixed farming,
an d, in addition to handing to posterity
lands as fertile as when first cultivated, it
would ease a little the present overpro-
duction of wheat.
Stock are a necessity to the continu-
ance of the land’s fertility and capacity
to produce.
u* r arm
H,nts tor f
“Dobbin”: To prevent horses feet
from scalding or cracking, coat the hoofs
once a week with equal parts of soft fat,
yellow wax, linseed oil, turpentine and
tar. Melt the wax separately before
mixing.
“Werrimee”: There are many excel-
lent tanning barks Resides wattle Blood-
\vo°d is the best of all A.ivifnlh, , n rt'
leather comes out beautifully soft,
whereas wattle, or the tannin extract,
leaves it hard. Creek oak yields another
good *’?’*' It was the first mateml
s P°“ ed by “ rher Australians a a tannin-
P r , od V'? er ' Mangrove bark is suable for
all skins and hides IniSlew England
50 t 0 used to b e paid for the bark
of the native hickory-tree, which is found
from the coastal scrubs to the table-
lands; white leathers tanned with blue-
and redgum barks have taken prizes at
manv shows
“L&o" C.S. and I.R. has come to
the conclusion that carbon bisulphide is
the best poison for meat-ants. Dig a
hole a foot deep in the middle of the
mound. Pour in half a pint for nests
up to 4ft. diameter, a full pint for those
larger. Then throw a shovelful of earth
on the chemical and stamp it down,
Early morning, when all the ants are at
home, is best—and be sure to treat all
the nests.
“B-gar” : With blowflies active as they
are at present, the heads of merino rams
running with the ewes should be regu-
! arl /, examined. Any ram that isolates
itself is almost certain to be troubled by
maggots about the base of the horns. As
a safeguard, all rams with much growth
of wool should be shorn about the heads
before being joined. It makes treatment
e a sier if wounds brought about by fight-
ing become maggot-infested. Though it
stains wool, I ve found Milestone the best
for dressing head strike in rams.
“Observer”: Aiming to encourage
more diversified farming, increased lamb
raising and improvement of soil fer-
Ji lity > ., th . e Narraburra (N.S.W.) Shire
Council is sponsoring a competition em-
bracing pasture improvement, growing
and conservmg fodder crops and so.l
c ?" se ™‘ lon - Hitherto, the districts in-
A b p. k Ag "c ltu 1 Societies are
Co “Ghananf ’: July-February Australian
Meat Board lamb competitions, judged at
Smithfield, gave the championship in the
Down class to Roseworthy Agricultural
College (S.A.) for a Southdown cross
Dorset Horn merino, which also collected
the grand championship. W. H. New-
man, Hoyleton (S.A.), and T. Ridgway,
Fitzroy (S.A.), next in order, used the
same mixture. Ryeland-Suffolk-Dorset
Horn class was won by W. S. Kelly,
Tarlee (S.A.), with Dorset on Dorset
Horn merino. Lincoln-Leicester-Rom-
ney honors went to H. Shillabeer, Oak-
bank (S.A.). Other States scarcely had
a look in. .
“Lachlan”: Abnormalities of the
season in the outer western districts of
N.S.W. have produced results in cereal
crops not previously experienced. At
Condobolin and Trangie State Farms,
self . sown wbeat and G at crons as well
“ lf e “£“ so 's“ , h”ve r u„ t 0 at 10
weeks ' TVo-month-old crops have
, . , , for silaap The
f or ”?d Lsa oroblaf as the
• - t of LJ. wil i ne £ sraz in g G ff if
, X „ ra : n „ r wn hav There
. p f , B , th tk Y '
... P
1 ’ ....
“Jamberoo”: The Victorian dairy
factory managers’ conference heard a lot
about factory grading of butter. Out
°f 857,000 boxes submitted as choicest
for export grading last year, 191,000
f a ji ed make the grade. The senior
grad i ng officer, W. Laffan, said that
f OO much inferior cream was apparently
used in making alleged choicest butters.
About 65 pc of a n i ast year’s export
supplies were graded choicest against
gg g p.c. last year.
“ G . Hop”: Opposition to compulsory
grasshopper poisoning is gaining ground
. N.S.W. In Sydney recently the Graziers’
conference voted 47-27 in favor of repeal
of the Noxious Insects Act , and the p.p.
Boards - Convention 27-17. The Shires'
Conference voted 47 . 40 for enforcement
f he , aw . It has become a battle be-
h large pastoralist and the
farmer razier *’ difficuUies of bait-
. . t . finn<! „ rp rprnff
>”* ho PPf s , M„fee PP Board hS
, , , ■ f V T
J*JJ”® lnSt^ at< Vnnnnharahan are other dis
worth and Coonabaraban are other dis
S,and f ° r ,he fhU ° £
‘ _ .
Q.C.R. : Queensland Agricultural
Department has a word of warning
about the so-called winter- or frost-
resisting Rhodes grass. It has a high
prussic-acid content at some stages of
growth, though there is not enough ex-
perience to say exactly at what stage
it is dangerous. Probably it varies with
district or season. Anyway, it is a fodder
to be grazed cautiously, and it is far
better done without in districts where
other good winter grasses and clovers
are available.
« Zamia - . The rabbit vir us which was
to make a clean swe of bunny has s 0
£ ar proved a f a ilure—so soon as a rabbit
ge(:s s j ck S ne a ks out of its burrow, leav-
j ng f r j ends an d relations uninfected.
Charles Martin, who has been investigat-
j ng o y er seas, is getting much the same
resu j ts as tbe Australian experimenters
at Wardang Is i and ( S .A.). He finds the
on j y sbor tcoming of the virus is its “in-
sufficient infectivity”; he is persevering
only in case virus may be needed for
further experiment in Australia.
.. Mulgo ... A £arm worked by one
(amily f or over 80 years is Kinloch, at
Nort| ( j erry> fc oolamon (M.S.W.).
Tho hj( h > as bee ' n car i wheat con .
|inuo J sly since 1857 wi J h t are f u , man -
r ment and £er,ilisers jt s,iil yields
heavy crops.
take 100,000 tons of Argentine wheat and
8000 tons of Argentine wool in exchange
for 900 railway cars and 60 locomotives,
She is buying and storing eggs on a large
scale—about 4,000,000 dozen were
bought recently from Eire and Holland,
“Endor”: Answering a question at
Canberra, Mr. Casey said that a Russian
gr ass was “doing good work” in the Vic.
Mallee towards checking erosion. If Mr.
c. has such a grass he should give it to
the waiting world. All other experts
have long since decided that permanent
revegetation is not feasible without intro-
ducing timber. When grasses stop sand
movement they destroy their own natural
conditions. Australia has about the best
basic sand-stoppers of the lot—the
acacias. A good motto for Ministers
(and others) bent on sand-stopping in
this continent is: “Back to the Mulga.”


//
/
0«£
<D>\
'// / I \ \
is all you
pay for
ONE PINT
of the world’s best remedy for
COUCHS
COLDS
CATARRH
INFLUENZA
m
BRONCHITIS
SORE THROATS
m
m
WADC UP
IN VOUR
oWN HOME
CHEST AILMENTS
FOR ALL CHEST
AILMENTS—TAKE
HEENZO INTERNALLY.
HEENZO
is good and safe for
CHILDREN
and
ADULTS
Cannot upset even
a baby’s digestion.
NO POISONS
Save lots of money by
simply, in your own home,
adding a two - shilling
bottle o f concentrated
HEENZO to sweetened
water, thus making ONE
PINT of the world’s best
family remedy,
equally good and
safe for children
and adults as a
speedy and
pleasant cure for
......
88
Mr. PETER DAWSON,
the world’s famous baritone, writes:—
“A few doses of HEENZO quickly
dispelled a cold that had troubled me
for some weeks.”
chest, nose, and throat ailments.
By taking made-up HEENZO internally you
quickly soothe and banish COUGHS, COLDS,
CROUP, BRONCHITIS, and INFLUENZA.
Experiments have proved that the
most effective and economical
treatment for CATARRH and
COLDS IN THE HEAD is placing
a few drops of made-up HEENZO
up each nostril, night and morning.
To gain instant relief
from SORE AND
SMOKERS’ THROATS,
gargle with made-up
HEENZO whenever the
irritation is felt.
HEENZO, being pure,
and free from poisons
or harsh drugs, cannot
upset the digestion of even the youngest baby.
You can also rely on HEENZO as a safeguard
against catching the ills of winter chills by
taking a dose before venturing out into
crowds, or cold, wet, and windy weather.
WHEN YOU HEAR COUGH REMEDIES
MENTIONED REMEMBER TO BUY HEENZO
j
THE BEST—COSTS LESS
:>
K
MADE UP
|M YOUR
)WN HOME
k
„B®c
4
Also COLDS in HEAD. Place
a few drops of made-up
HEENZO up each nostril—
night and morning.
ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES IN
AUSTRALIA SELL
HEENZO
JL.J .jHIISZOI
GARCLEf|
SORE THROATS
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.


ĵ
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Free.
Established 49 years.
Hankers: The Union
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
P. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm, A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 143 Branches and Receiving
jtfiees throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
mis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SHORTHAND
You will learn Hutton Stiortiiand compteteij in
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 w.p.ra. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson free without obligation.
DUTTON SHORTHAND (N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1644P, Wellington. N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Lady, Sydney, seeks position as receptionist,
doctor’s waiting-r00m.—3619.
Gentleman, Sydney, middle-aged, returned
soldier, seeks position, clerical work, inter-
viewing.—3620.
Responsible position required by cattle-
station manager (46). Exp. in North and
Central Queensland. Refs. —3599.
Lecturer on Australian literature seeks
engagements evenings, Sydney and suburbs.
Has addressed leading Sydney literary bodies.
Moderate fee. —3629.
To buy Barron Field’s First Fruits of Aus-
tralian Poetry and Wild Notes from the Lyre
of a Native Minstrel, by Charles Tompson. —■
3628.
To buy books of reminiscences by Australian
racehorse owners, trainers and jockeys.—3476.
To buy books containing mathematical
absurdities similar to Lewis Carroll’s Curiosa
Mathematica. —3454.
Words of verse of which the following is
part: —•
Then the bugle rang out. Och, I ne’er heard the
like, but wan aisy could tell
They’d ha’ lep’ all the locked gates of heaven to
ride with that music to hell!
—3612.
Information Sought.
What is the history of an old stone foun-
tain now standing in disuse at the corner of
Anzac-parade and Dacey-avenue, Sydney ?
3452.
The fountain originally stood at the old Toll
Bar on the Sydney-Randwick road. This toll
bar was the last in the metropolitan district,
and the site of it is marked by the small
triangular park on the boundary of the Sydney
and Randwick municipalities, Moore Park.
The fountain is dated 1869, but was probably
not erected until the following year, as it is
sometimes called the Rennie Fountain, named
after the Mayor of that time.
¥ * ¥ ¥
When, where and by whom the Boy
Scouts’ movement formed, and what are its
objects ? —3664.
Founded in 1908, as a result of an experi-
mental camp held the previous summer at
Brownslea Island, Dorsetshire, the movement
was organised by Lord Baden-Powell, Chief
Scout, to develop good citizenship among
boys by forming their character —training
them in habits of observation, obedience and
self-reliance, inculcating loyalty and thought-
fulness for others; teaching them services use-
ful to the public and handicrafts useful to
themselves, and promoting their physical de-
velopment and hygiene.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
When was the change to the Gregorian
calendar made and how was it effected ?
3651.
The change from the Julian system, or Old
Style, to the Gregorian system, or New Style,
was made in England in September, 1752,
when the eleven days 3rd to 13th inclusive
were omitted and Wednesday, Sept. 2, was im-
mediately followed by Thursday, Sept. 14.
Other countries made the change at dates
varying from 1582 to 1923.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
(1) Meaning of the expression “bringing an
aeroplane in on a beam” when landing? (2)
Principle of operation? (3) By what visible
means is this beam received on the ’plane ?
—3547.
(1) A system of wireless telegraphy whereby
the transmitter, located near the landing
ground, sends out a highly directional beam,
somewhat similar to the visual beam of a
searchlight. This radio beam guides the aero-
plane safely to the landing ground. (2) The
beam is picked up on an ultra-short-wave
receiver located on the aircraft and is ampli-
fied and passed on to an instrument called a
course indicator. (3) By means of the course
indicator, which comprises a dial carrying two
pointers, one horizontal and the other vertical.
These pointers indicate any deviation of the
aeroplane from the beam, either vertical or
lateral.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
How do hours of work per day compare in
the U.K., France, the U.S.A., Germany and
Russia? —3532.
The average normal period of work in Great
Britain is about 46 to 48 hours per week; in
France, 40 hours (with numerous decrees ex-
tending that period in industries producing
military equipment). In the U.S.A. it varies in
different industries and in different localities;
in the building industries and other highly-
skilled occupations, from 35 to 40 hours per
week. In Germany, 48 hours per week, with
a strong tendency by decrees to permit over-
time; in March, coalminers’ hours increased
45 minutes per shift, which is now 8 hours
45 minutes. In Russia, seven-hour day in force
since 1927, when it was eight hours per day.
Actual hours of work statistics collected by
the International Labor Office are not suitable
for international comparisons owing to the
different methods of compilation. With this
warning they are given as follows: As at
December, 1938 —in Germany, 7.89 hours per
day; in United States, 36.6 hours per week;
France, 40.4 hours p.w.; Great Britain, 47.8
hours p.w.; Russia, not known. The latest
report of the International Labor Office states
that the movement in favor of a reduction of
hours of work in industry and commerce to
less than 48 in the week has been held up,
or even suffered a setback, in many countries,
and has lost much of its vigor in France.
¥ ¥ * ¥
Details concerning statues of (1) Capt. Chas
Sturt and. (2) John McDouall Stuart, both in
Victoria-square, Adelaide. Names of sculptors,
of what material are the statues, including
pedestal, who erected them, who paid for them
and when were they unveiled? —-3630.
(1) The sculptor was J. White. The figure
is of Carrara marble, from a plaster model by
W. J. Maxwell. The pedestal is of Sydney
trachyte designed by the sculptor, and erected
by W. Torode. It was paid for by public
subscription and presented by the Caledonian
Society. It was unveiled on June 4, 1904. (2)
The sculptor was Capt. Adrian Jones and the
figure is of bronze. The pedestal is of Murray
Bridge granite and Angaston marble. It was
erected by C. E. Morgan, paid for by public
subscription and unveiled on December 21,
1916.
* * * *
Ministers comprising the Menzies Govern-
ment ?— 3632.
R. G. Menzies (Prime Minister and
Treasurer), W. M. Hughes (Attorney-General
and Industry), R. G. Casey (Supply and De-
velopment), G. A. Street (Defence), H. S.
Gullett (External Affairs), George McLeay
(Commerce), Hattil Foil (Interior), E. J. Har-
rison (Postmaster-General and Repatriation),
J. N. Lawson (Trade and Customs), Frederick
Stewart (Health and Social Services), J. V.
Fairbairn (Vice-Pres., Executive Council, Civil
Aviation and assisting Minister for Defence),
J. A. Perkins (External Territories), P. C.
Spender (Assistant Treasurer), P. A. M. Mc-
Bride (Assistant Minister for Commerce), H. B.
Collett (War Service Homes, and H. E. Holt
(Assistant Minister for Supply and Develop-
ment).
¥ ¥ ¥ He
I understand that Sydney is the 21 st largest
city in the world. What 20 cities have a larger
population ? Dates of taking their popula-
tions ?— 3548.
London (1937) 8,655,000, New York (1937)
7,434,000, Tokio (1937) 6,274,000, Berlin (1936)
4,251,000, Moscow (1936) 3,642,000, Chicago
(1934) 3,491,000, Shanghai (1936) 3,490,000,
Osaka (1937) 3,213,000, Paris (1936) 2,830,000,
Leningrad (1936) 2,740,000, Buenos Aires
(1937) 2,291,000, Philadelphia (1934) 2,004,000,
Vienna (1936) 1,836,000, Rio de Janeiro (1936)
1,711,000, Peiping (1936) 1,556,000, Detroit
(1934) 1,487,000, Calcutta (1931) 1,486,000,
Cairo (1937) 1,307,000, Tientsin (1936)
1,292,000, Los Angeles (1934) 1,283,000.
=i= ¥ ¥ *
(1) In what comic opera, and when, did
William Elton last appear ? (2) What was his
first appearance ? (3) When did George
Lauri first appear? —3s64.
(1) At the Lyceum Theatre, Pitt-street,
Sydney, in the musical comedy “Morocco
Bound” in 1894. Later he appeared in “Our
Boys” and other non-musical comedies. (2)
As Ben Barnacle in Stephens and Solomon’s
comic opera “Billee Taylor” at Sydney
Theatre Royal on October 9, 1886. (3) At Her
Majesty’s Theatre, Sydney, on July 6, 1892, as
Gosric in Walter Slaughter’s comic opera
“Marjorie.”
¥ * ¥ ¥
(1) Will crayfish live in an aquarium ? (2)
What amount of air is required to aerate the
water ? (3) How often is it necessary to
change the water ? (4) Where can literature
dealing with the subject be obtained ? —3418.
(1) Taronga Park Zoo, Sydney, only has
salt-water crayfish in its aquarium. The keep-
ing of salt-water specimens entails a great
amount of work, such as providing running
fresh salt-water, which it is rarely possible
for amateurs to supply. (2) Aeration is not
necessary. (3) At Taronga Park the salt-
water in the crayfish tank is running con-
tinually in and out the whole day. (4) Write
to Angus and Robertson or Dymocks, both
Sydney, and inquire what books are available.
Roughley’s The Keeping of Goldfish is a good
publication. Also write to the Aquarium
Society of N.S.W., U.S.I. Building, 8 Young-
street, Sydney, and obtain information on the
publications which should best suit your pur-
pose. Then again, you might become a sub-
scriber to the “Amateur Aquarist,” a London
periodical, the address of which is care
Chapman, 17 Tottenham-road, London, W.l.
* * * ¥
Was the Sydney Municipal Council ever dis-
missed and ruled by a Commission substi-
tuted ? If so, when and by whom was the
change made, and who were the Commis-
sioners ? —3546.
The city has been administered by Com-
missioners on two occasions from and
after 31st December, 1853, until 10th April,
1857, and from 3rd January, 1928, to 30th
June, 1930, inclusive. On the first occasion,
by reason of the passing of an Act (17
Victoriae No. 33) assented to on the 29th
October, 1853, the Body Corporate then
known by the title “Mayor, Aldermen,
Councillors and Citizens of the City of
Sydney” was dissolved from and after the 31st
December, 1853, and “The Commissioners for
the City of Sydney” appointed. The Com-
missioners were Gilbert Eliott, Frederick
Orme Darvall and John Rae, who held office
until the 10th April, 1857, when an election of
aldermen was held under the provisions of
Act 20 Victoriae No. 36 assented to on the 18th
March, 1857. On the second occasion, in
accordance with the provisions of the Sydney
Corporation (Commissioners) Act 1927, the
City of Sydney was, from the 3rd January,
1928, administered by three Commissioners,
E. P. Fleming, J. Garlick and H. E. Morton.
Following the death of Chief Commissioner
Fleming in October, 1928, John Garlick was
appointed Chief Commissioner and Brigadier-
General H. Gordon Bennett was appointed
a Commissioner. The Commissioners held
office until the 30th June, 1930, when the
aldermen elected in accordance with the pro-
visions of the Sydney Corporation (Amend-
ment) Act 1929 assumed office.
* * * *
Route taken by Imperial Airways on its
service from Sydney to Southampton, also the
places at which the ’planes stop ? —3456.
The flying-boat service operates thrice
weekly in each direction between Southampton
and Sydney, the section between Southampton
and Singapore being operated by Imperial
Airways, Ltd., and the section between
Singapore and Sydney by Qantas Empire
Airways, Ltd. The intermediate stopping
places are Marseilles, Rome, Brindisi, Athens,
Alexandria, Tiberias, Habbaniyeh, Basra,
Bahrein, Dabai, Gwadar, Karachi, Raj
Samand, Gwalior, Allahabad, Calcutta,
Akyab, Rangoon, Bangkok, Penang, Singapore,
Batavia, Sourabaya, Bima, Koepang, Darwin,
Groote Eylandt, Karumba, Townsville, Glad-
stone and Brisbane. On the outward trip
from Southampton overnight stops are made
at Athens, Basra, Karachi, Calcutta, Bangkok,
Singapore, Sourabaya, Darwin and Towns-
ville, whilst on the return journey the over-
night stops are made at Townsville, Darwin,
Sourabaya, Penang, Calcutta, Karachi, Basra,
Alexandria and Marseilles.
* * * *
Average number of carcasses of (a) sheep,
( b ) cattle consumed monthly by the people
of Sydney and suburbs ? —3465.
During the month of April, 1939, the
killings of cattle and sheep (including lambs)
for local consumption at premises situated
within the metropolitan abattoir area were
15,491 and 180,516 carcasses respectively. In
addition 11,355 carcasses of beef and 17,597
carcasses of mutton and lamb were introduced
into the area from inter-State and country
centres.
* * * x
How to make a claim on the Accident
Fund of the Victorian Bush Fire Brigades
Assoc, for injuries received by a voluntary
worker whilst fire-fighting in Victoria during
last summer’s fires ? —3518.
The fund provides for the payment of
compensation to persons who are injured
whilst assisting a registered bush fire brigade
which is a contributor to the fund. If you
were incapacitated whilst so acting the
necessary forms for completion by yourself
and the secretary and captain of your brigade
will be forwarded on application to the
secretary, V.8.F.8. Assoc., care Forests Com-
mission of Victoria, Treasury Buildings, Mel-
bourne. The rules provide that claims must be
submitted within 28 days of the occurrence of
the accident.
* * * .
I am 42 and the muscles under my chin are
becoming slack and the skin inclined to sag.
What neck exercises would help to strengthen
the muscles? —3466.
Massage with some good skin food with the
ball of the thumb drawn from the centre of
the chin outwards towards both ears may effect
some improvement. But the trouble is not
wholly due to muscular defect; it may be due
to slackness of skin, following absorption of
underlying fatty tissue, a common occurrence
in middle life.
* * * *
(1) Recipe of a white or cream embrocation,
thick, in nature, after the type of Ellerman’s ?
(2) Cause of the whiteness and thickness in
embrocations ? —3391.
(1) Mix 3oz. solution of potash (British
Pharmacopoeia, ’9B) with 3oz. water in a bottle,
add 7dr. oleic acid previously mixed with 3oz.
oil of turpentine, and mix gently. To this
emulsion add lOoz. oil of turpentine, with
loz. camphor dissolved in it, in portions of loz.
or more at a time. Knowledge of the art of
dispensing is necessary. (2) It is due to the
emulsification of the oil or soap contained in
them.
* * * *
(1) Will equal quantities of peroxide and
ammonia bleach and eventually rot the growth
of superfluous hair on the face if applied
regularly? (2) If so, about how long would
this take? (3) What disadvantages has this
method? (4) Why is ammonia labelled dan-
gerous ? —3122.
(1) The application will cause dark hair to
assume a lighter tint, but will not “rot” it.
(2) The bleaching effect becomes apparent after
the first few applications. (3) It is temporary
only, and the results are so imperfect as to
deceive nobody. (4) Small concentrations pro-
duce irritation of the throat, nose and eyes,
with watering of eyes, sneezing, salivation and
sore throat. High concentrations cause cough-
ing and difficulty in breathing. Strong solu-
tions in contact with the skin result in blis-
tering and burning.
* * * *
Some details concerning a painter named
Paul Bril ?— 3649.
Paul Bril, a Flemish painter, was born at
Antwerp in 1554 and died in 1626. The success
of his elder brother Matthew (1550-1584) in the
Vatican induced him to go to Rome to live.
On the death of Matthew, Paul, who far sur-
passed him as an artist, succeeded to his
pensions and employments. He painted
landscapes with a depth of chiaroscuro then
little practised in Italy, and introduced into
them figures well drawn and finely colored.
One of his best compositions is the “Martyr-
dom of St. Clement,” in the Sala Clementina
of the Vatican.
* * * *
How to prepare sauerkraut? —3530.
Cut a cabbage into slices and put these into
a large basin with water for half an hour.
Then drain and place the slices in a casserole
in which a finely-minced onion has just been
lightly fried in oil. Blend well and moisten
with strong wine-vinegar. Continue cooking
on not too quick a fire for an hour and a
Brief Answers.
Wagga: In the opinion of the N.S.W. De-
partment of Labor and Industry a girl whose
duties are to sit in an office and answer the
’phone, and who for the major portion of her
time is engaged reading or sewing, is not sub-
ject to the provisions of any State award. The
fact that a small portion of her time is occu-
pied in typing will not have the effect of
bringing her under the provisions of any clerks’
award E.R.K.: Dr. Thompson, Fisheries
Section, Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, Marine Laboratory, Cronulla (N.S.W.).
W.J.R.: These lesions are now believed, on
very good grounds, to be contagious and due
to a virus. Use no caustic reagents on them,
but keep the child away from school. As local
treatment, try bathing the affected parts with
a saturated solution of Epsom salts dis-
solved in water... .A.N.: If the X-ray
diagnosis is correct the condition needs opera-
tion, since the polypus may cause obstruction
in the stomach. It is not likely to become
cancerous... .M.R.: Yes; it will form part of
the estate of the person to whom the car was
given. In N. S. Wales estates under £5OO are
not liable to duty, and estates between £5OO
and £lOOO where the property passes to a
widow and/or children under 21 years of age
are also exempt from duty.... V.R.: (1) No.
(2) Only so far as the lease may stipulate in
that respect. (3) “A lease is a contract for the
exclusive possession of land or tenements for
some definite number of years or other deter-
mined period” (Broom), and the duty of the
trustees is to see that the terms and conditions
of the lease are faithfully carried 0ut....
B. : A copy of Edward Knoblauch’s My
Lady’s Dress is obtainable from Will Andrade,
173 Pitt-street, Sydney; 4s. 6d R.S.T.:
As in both cases the contractors employ other
labor, payments made by you should be free
from wages-tax deduction. You should note
in your records, however, the names and
addresses of the contractors... .R.A.S.: Most
quinces will strike readily from cuttings. In
cases where a good take is not possible, they
may be either budded or grafted on stocks
raised from quince seeds... .G.G.C.: The
Oxford English Dictionary contains 414,828
words; 240,165 are main words, 67,105 sub-
ordinate words, 47,800 special combinations
and 59,755 obvious combinations. Of the
240,165 main words, 177,970 are current, 52,464
obsolete and 9731 alien... .T.M.: The follow-
ing native words mean “platypus”: Billadu-
rong, Boondaburra, Charnbung, Mullin-gong,
Noyumboon, and, for “red platypus,” Mullan-
gundry. The word used by a tribe inhabiting
the Richmond ■ River, on which Casino is situ-
ated, is “Boondaburra”... .J.E.F.: So far as
can be traced Cuthbert Fetherstonehaugh did
not publish a second volume of After Many
Days D.L.: See The Bulletin, May 22,
1935, page 15....H.T.: Bassett Hull, Box 704,
G.P.0., Sydney... .S.E.D.: Cannot trace quo-
tation C.W.: (1) Over 100 have been sold,
mostly to beginners, for whom it is specially
designed. (2) Rail to Geelong, 16s. 6d. (3)
Anthony Horderns are sending a booklet
C. : Silverton Tramway Co.’s terminal is
at Broken Hill, and the length of line 35 miles.
For the other particulars, write direct to theco.
S.E.B.: Yes, the Shaw Savill Line operates
a service of cargo vessels carrying a limited
number of passengers between the U.K. and
Australia and M.L. via Panama Canal, the
Cape of Good Hope or the Suez Canal. Sail-
ings are fairly frequent, and fares range from
£6O to £75, English currency, the accommo-
dation comprising single- and two-berth
cabins... .M.K.: Home of Peace, Addi-
son-road, Sydney; Home of Peace, Subiaco
(W.A.); Hospice for the Dying, Dar-
linghurst, Sydney... .J.A.S.: It is esti-
mated that there are about 1,849,500,000
people in the world... .G.E.P.: Write Lecturer-
in-charge, Tanning School, Bourke-street,
Waterloo (N.5.W.)... .G.R.: It is open to you
to lodge an application for any available N.S.W.
Crown land which you consider to be ■suit-
able for your purpose. It is suggested that
you write to the Lands Department, Sydney,
with a view to becoming registered as a land
seeker and receiving the monthly bulletin
of lands becoming available for settlement....
L.H.: No opportunities in Australia... .R.N.:
Technological Museum, Harris-street, Sydney,
will send you a leaflet outlining steps to take
if you write for it H.L.: Since 155
Australians have played in Tests v. England
the search to find at what schools they were
educated is too extensive. N.S.W., Vic., S.A.
and Q. Cricket Associations may help you to
the information... .J.C.W.: M. W. Tate (Eng-
land), 38 wickets, average 23.18, and A. Mailey
(Australia), 36 wickets, average 26.27, have
taken most wickets in a rubber in Tests
F.T.G.: Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence
Department, Melbourne... .J.M.: Write Secre-
tary, Naval Board, Defence Department, Mel-
bourne K.M.: “Bohemia” (3d., monthly),
132 Cubit-street, Richmond, Vic D.D. :
(1) Agent for biscuits is C. Collins, Box 27,
Commercial Travellers’ Association, Martin-
place, Sydney. (2) They are obtainable retail
from Anthony Hordern and Sons, Brickfield
Hill, Sydney A.M.S.: Can’t trace “Miss
Milligan.” You will find the rules of nine
solitaire card games in Hoyle Up-to-Date,
obtainable from any bookseller, price about
3s H.P.P.: Cannot advise concerning in-
gredients of explosives. Manufacture of these
is illegal in N. S. Wales save under license....
K.D.: The Johnson Cup was run at Cessnock
(N.S.W.) and resulted: Building Castles 1,
Garry Micawber 2, Sweet Louise 3....F.0.:
Write Under-Secretary, Department of Terri-
tories, Canberra, A.C.T S.M.R.: Write
Secretary, Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research, 314 Albert-street, East Melbourne
W.T.: Write Buttonhole Fancy Costume Co.,
116 Liverpool-street, Sydney H.K.H.: (1)
Yes. (2) Three first prizes of £20,000, tickets
21s. each; three first prizes of £9,000, tickets
10s. 6d. each; and one first prize of £7500,
tickets 10s. 6d. each E.V.: (1) Cannot locate
any source of supply. (2) Inquire at the
French Club, Room 508, 42 Bridge-street, Syd-
ney, or at the French Consulate-General, Wyn-
yard-street, Sydney.


PSlfSlflig
vs
V
Ip
T 1
I
s
ft
>Wyi
m
.: .. :
Wonderful holiday tour to this
port of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
ing via the same ports, with
additional calls at Saigon and
Madang. The m.v. “NEP-
TUNA” sails regularly from
Melbourne and Sydney. Excel-
lent cuisine and service—sports
deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
Fares are free of exchange.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
S. CD. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: B 790!
BMI
312 Collins Street, Melbourne
128 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Prudential Building, Wellington, N.Z
NEW ZEALAND
CENTENNIAL
EXHIBITION
m
m
m
■
,v>
J
rjH'wjwivj^ihi
mmmigr*
m
m
Ww***
MOV. 1939
fa APRIL 194
New ZEALAND invites you to attend in Wellington
the most spectacular festivities ever arranged south of
the line! One hundred years of colonization are to be
celebrated by the Greatest Exhibition ever held in the
Southern Hemisphere. Come to the Wonderland of the
Pacific —only 2£ days’ sail from Sydney —and enjoy the
pageantry, impressive displays, colossal entertainment,
sports meetings, magnificent scenery, and a thousand
unique attractions that will hold you enthralled. Full
particulars are available in a beautifully illustrated brochure
in colour. Write for your copy to: New Zealand Govern-
ment Tourist Bureau, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane or all
travel agents.
BOOK NOW!
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of a hostile chamcter ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
DT.B.: They drifted away on the “tide of
forgotten things” H. 8.5.:, Not those “5000
humble w0rd5”....P.8.5.: “Inspired by the
surrounding scenery.” Suggest that you move
to other parts L.D.T.: “Tweet, Tweet a
twitter ...C.D.L.: Your thunder failed to stir
even the office cat 8.5. L.: Cut to 1000
words it might stand a chance RGB.:
What are you driving at? G. 5.1.: “Cnpes,
n 0 L.T.D.: For the umpteenth time, we
want yarns in Australian or island settings....
F.C.S.: You have the distinction of having
written something so arrestingly dreadful that
we were compelled to read it right through
J.T.C.: Practice is your most urgent need
B. : A series of those is one of the most
awful things we can think 0f... .8.D.P.:
Drivel....S.T.H.: Spring has never done that
t 0 us V.R.W.: You can’t grind that axe
here L.C.T.: Cut it—mainly at the start-
drop a few characters and then try again....
C. : “Strike” didn’t... .8.R.W.: You
write too much about too little... .K.L.s..
The finish spoils it 8.D.C.: A familiar
lightweight... .F.D.: That’s one of the old
friends we’re not pleased to see.... V.b.F.:
“Black Friday” made it so 1.M.b.: U.
Henry anticipated you by a few years
L C.T.: “I have decided to become a con-
tributor to The Bulletin.” Well, we usually
have something to say about that.... J.T.8.:
Even our doormat bristles at the sight ot
thirsty prospectors... .M.D.L.: Swain and his
wench still bickering in the w.p.b.... .T.8.D.:
Are you sure that the market is to blame /... ..
VF.C.: A stamp will rescue “The Lifesaver.
B.T.A.: Speaking conservatively, we’d say
it was terrible... .S.N.: You’ll have to do that
sort of thing better than Gavin S. Casey to
place it here... .D.M.R.: Steady, steady....
H.8.R., V.E.L., J.P., A.N.D., L.F. and P.C.:
Try them elsewhere... .J.S.: Well off our beat.
A.C.P.: Ho! for “the boys from Woll-
stonecraft”.... G.T.: The second line is dread-
ful ...T.E.McC.: All right then, we won’t
chuck off at “Little Mickey Rooney”; but
we’ll have to chuck him out A.L.H.: The
ending fails... .L.G.K.: It has its moments.
R C.: Why must every fourth story we get
be titled “Sales Talk”? ... .T.W.N.: Not up.
B.C.: Need to be much shorter and
snappier to get by... .A.N.: Cut to a very old
pattern P.D.: Not here; you may place it
elsewhere... .A.W.U.: Not that one... .M.K..
Out' N.R.N.: Serve him right, too
T.M.M.: Nothing to it 1.H.: Poem “after
attempting faithfully to carry out for several
sessions at 7 a.m. physical jerks instructions
broadcast from national stations” is a -weightier
indictment than you thought... .8.C.:
“Passers-by” going for the lick of their lives.
..J.E.F.: Thousands will moan with you:
. ...H.F.: Can’t crown that L.H.: Alfred
Lord Tennyson has a corner in Gamelot....
L.M.K.: Write less, write better, and watch
what the women’s magazines publish....
G.R.R.: At least it’s free from Junes and
tunes... .P.K.: Hastily returning “Bombshell.”
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.K.: What tomb of dead gags have you
found? G.H.: Not bad in a slapdash
fashion, but we want them better than that....
8.L.: Chairman and speaker appear to be
painted on the backcloth... .W.C.D.: “Worth
a full-page?” Not a corner the size of a
postage stamp F.A.: You don’t improve
with the years, do you? L.W.: A political
cartoon should be clear and forceful; yours is
neither M.M.: More like a problem in
geometry than a humorous drawing T.H.:
Searched for an hour and still failed to locate
the point of that gag 8.R.: The crosscut
saw looks like a crosscut saw but the men at
the ends are a libel on the human race
S.J.N.: If you want to draw with crayon select
a less highly-polished paper D.T.8.: Looks
like an all-in fight between all the signs of
the Zodiac N.W.: The lady is shapely
enough but her humor is low-grade T.N.:
Garage-mechanic needs overhauling every bit
as much as the old car... .H.E.S.: We don’t
doubt your word but we do doubt your
artistic ability... .8.Y.: The riding-master’s
nightmare did not equal that of the Art
Editor’s after looking at the drawing W.T.:
If your motto is “Safety First” we suggest
that you cease drawing P.M.D.: The boy
shows promise, but he should be persuaded
not to copy F.L.: Both gags and drawings
belong to another age W.D.: You’ve given
us a Zulu when the gag called for an abo.
T.M.: There is hope for you if you’re
prepared to polish your drawings before sub-
mitting. ... A.F.: Wild Irishman looks comic
enough, but his remarks were unprintable.
I sit and I wonder
Where “Bellerive” has flown ;
My lips as I ponder
Kmit a sad moan.
For he’s exquisite lines
Flyeth swift from he’s pen
Everybody must pray for
He’s return to our ken.
He’s fluency facile
Jealous envy mocketh
Cheer up Melbourne’s poet
And let them all know it
Your challenge to all men
’Tis here that you show it.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
Artur Schnabel, latest importation of
the A.8.C., was an Austrian till Austria
was —what is our Great Dailies nasty
word for it? He got his musical educa-
tion at Vienna from Leschetizky, and was
first notable as a Brahms and then as a
Beethoven exponent. He has one son
a composer and another an actor. His
wife, who is with him, has had a suc-
cessful career as a singer of lieder.
Schnabel is 57.
i\i sjs * *
“C. 8.”: A Melbourne medico with
literary leanings recently took a trip to
England with letters of introduction
which enabled him to mix in the most
rarefied intellectual and artistic circles in
London. One evening at a party he was
introduced to a poet whose works are
familiar to readers of those modernistic
reviews which print lines upside down
and eschew capital letters. The poet,
unlike his verses, turned out to be a quiet,
unaffected little man so easy to get along
with that before the evening was out the
doctor had received an invitation to
spend a week-end at the Englishman s
home in the country. He duly arrived
at a pleasant little mansion, was shown
by his host to his bedroom, and told that
there was an hour to go to dinner, and
perhaps he might like to hear some music
in the music-room. “It’s just through the
bathroom,” remarked the poet. A few
moments later the host met his guest
looking for him in a state of great agita-
tion. “Didn’t you find the bathroom?”
asked the poet. “Yes, I did,” said the
Australian, “but there’s a horse in it.”
“Yes, there generally is,” said the poet
gravely.
* * :|i *
“Ysbrantsz”: Those who think that
the Pacific, or parts of it, might be made
a neutral zone in the next war should
look up what happened in the last one.
As early as August 3, 1914, China asked
the U.S.A. Government to try to get the
European Powers to undertake not to
fight in Chinese territory or waters, or
in leased Chinese territory. By August 7
the U.S.A. had asked the belligerent
Powers if they would agree to neutralise
the Pacific Ocean. On August 11 the
British Government notified Ambassador
Page that it approved the plan of observ-
ing the status quo in China, but had
rejected the neutralisation of the Pacific.
Germany came in a little belatedly on
August 13 with an acceptance of the idea
of an agreement between Britain, Ger-
many and Japan that none of the three
should attack warships, colonies, terri-
tory or commerce of the others in the
Far East or in the whole of the Pacific
as far as Cape Horn. In those days
Germany had something to lose in the
Pacific. On August 14, however, Japan
sent an ultimatum to Germany, and on
August 23 she declared war, so that the
whole of the neutrality plan went smash.
# * * *
“Nakh”: Recently a Victorian town-
ship wanted to change its name, and the
argument which broke out was amicably
settled when the council started a prize
competition. The same procedure has
been followed by the Bumbles of Black-
town (N.S.W.), who consider “Black-
town” insufficiently select, or some-
thing. These things are managed differ-
ently in Mother India. There were
riots in Mysore, and one Tagadur
Ramachandra Rao was arrested and
charged with violence and aggression, in-
asmuch as he had indulged in a fast to
force the hands of the Government. In
sentencing prisoner to one year’s im-
prisonment, the Babu magistrate vented
himself thus: “The statement of accused
gives me an irresistible impression that
he is a person who would not respect
lawful authority, but would strive his
best to break the law, incite the peaceful
public to do seditious acts and thereafter
gloat over the dire disturbances that
would ensue as a result of the subversive
and revolutionary ideas conceived by his
morbid mind and put into execution.
Such men are indeed dangerous to the
well-being of society.” The matter in dis-
pute was whether a police station should
be given the name of “Hamilton.”
* * * *
“Elsinore” : Stauning, of Denmark, the
only Prime Minister in Europe who has
no use for a razor, has just put through
a new Constitution which is an advance
in democracy even for a country where
the King appears in the Copenhagen tele-
phone book under the Ks. It abolishes
the speech from the throne ; in future
the Prime Minister will open the Rigsdag
by setting out the programme of the
Ministry. The Second Chamber of Par-
liament becomes a superior Standing
Corfimittee on things in general rather
than a House of Review. Incidentally,
voters in Denmark have .to be 23. Staun-
ing has a nephew in Victoria, and says
that he would like to come out and look
us over, but fears that it would take him
too long to learn English at his age.


the
perfect
pair
The purest gin Wended
with the juices of the
finest oranges and
lemons makes the per-
fect pair 1
You will find
Gordon’s Orange Gin
and Gordon’s Lemon
Gin exhilarating as
a cocktail, refresh-
ing as a long drink.
i/ *s
™ r ed \e'
c«r
>t Specis'ty ~jj}>
W NO
°°'ed from lV
*"» >
k.’»OfWNC^°
*
GO*
e otS u" erV
GoboOJJ 5
L
§ Have you tried 3 parts
Gordon’s Orange Gin to 1
part Lime Juice Cordial ?
It’s delicious*
Gordon's
ORANGECINLEMONGIN
TANQUERAY, GORDON & CO. LTD., GIN DISTILLERS, LONDON
jfhe UthgeSt gin diStiliM in the woiLd
FOR TANK SINKERS and
ROAD-MAKING CONTRACTORS
U
nuiHitflim
n !
m
iCS. 4 fpj
Lut
>
T*t
ALUS CHALMERS MODEL “K.O ”
The most reliable Oil Tractor, always ready
for Constant Hard Work.
One Owner Writes:
“As your records will show I purchased from you an
Allis Chalmers Model ‘K.O.’ Tractor to handle the larger
types of Road Machinery, such as Graders, Rooters and
Scoops, in connection with my road contracts.
“This tractor has been subjected to the hardest work
that a Track Tractor could be given, but, notwithstanding this
fact, after two years of such service it is still none the worse
for this treatment
“Performing just as well as ever —starts as readily and is
in perfect mechanical condition. I have the highest praise
for this machine.”
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
&S.4SA-
N-QBranch
STURT
TOWNSVIUT
ENGINEERING Slppiy C9of AIJSTRAUA L TD
A MIXED GRILL.
“Cauboy”: You never can tell in the
show game. After struggling to interest
the Melbourne public in modern plays
presented by imported companies, the J. C.
Williamson concern was induced to try
Boucicault’s mouldy old melodrama
“The Streets of London” at the King’s
at the hands of a home-grown co. Re-
sult was houses so packed that the
tattered old opus was removed to the
ornate interior of His Majesty’s four
days later. But Melbourne was only re-
peating a New York experience. In. a
mood of despair an entrepreneur revived
“Ten Nights in a Bar-room” six years
ago, and the piece is still running. More-
over, it has set such a boom going that
the theatrical pigeonholes have been
ransacked for more of the pieces over
which our grandmothers shed tears, and
road shows are taking them all over the
Republic. Can anybody explain it?
* * * *■
“Pawang”: A scene reminiscent of
American- legal methods was recently en-
acted at Prince Alfred Hospital in Mel-
bourne. Sundry legal lights sat in a glass
box and watched a major operation per-
formed on a patient, with surgeons,
anaesthetists and nurses so completely
absorbed in their work as to forget the
unusualness of the circumstances. Reason
was that a knotty point had arisen, in a
case of workers’ compensation. A man
who had slipped while unloading oil-
drums at a railway siding had laid a
claim for compensation for hernia.
Members of the board wanted to satisfy
themselves as to sundry gaps in their
knowledge of surgical procedure.
* * * *
“El V.”: One of my growls about this
country is that when a bit of real talent
turns up so little is done to encourage
it. Take that bright young Australian
of Erskineville (N.S.W.) —a suburb
named after a good soldier, by the way
—who had a celebration of Empire Day
all his own. Taking his little magnifying-
glass, he hied him to a sunny street,
paused by a shop window and focused
his glass, no doubt with a silent
toast to Queen Victoria, on the wicks
of an alluring display of crackers. The
rest is written in the annals of the fire
brigade. Wouldn’t a versatile lad like
that be likely to have some bright and
useful thoughts in a tight corner in a
front trench? They ought to bag him
for the mortars before he gets discour-
aged.
* * * *
“Zedo”: There’s a fortune waiting for
somebody who can invent a device which
will make it clear when a gun is or is
not loaded. There was another case the
other day in Queensland —two youths
skylarking, one picks up rifle, pushes it
against the other’s chest and pulls trigger.
One death and one prosecution for man-
slaughter. A safeguard should be fairly
easy and cheap. Some sort of set-signal
device operated from the cartridge-rim
seems as promising as anything.
* * *
“F.S.”: Paul Cezanne, archpriest of
the modernist movement in painting, was
a queer gun. He thought so little of his
pictures as pictures that after he had
painted them he would drop them in the
grass and pass on to another subject.
His wife, thinking of the family budget,
would follow after, pick them up and
put them away. A few dealers
took a fancy to him and, buying his
works for a pittance, stored them
until he became “known.” Now
the lowest price a work of his can be
bought for is £BOOO, the figure is rising,
he has become a fashion and is regarded
in some European circles as not merely
a great artist but the greatest of all. The
French Government has lately put one
of his self-portraits on a stamp issue, a
gesture which may suggest an idea to
a post office which appears to be still
wedded to the belief that Australia’s
most distinguished products are kanga-
roos, kookaburras and emus.
ST. HILDA ROAD
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
MELBOURNE’S St. Kilda-road
would be hard to beat as an
urban highway anywhere, and
Melbourne people are justly
proud of it, but it isn’t likely many of
them know its scandalous past in dalli-
ance with bushrangers. Eighty-seven
years ago a couple of “Vandemonian ”
ex-convicts, on a Saturday afternoon in
October, carried out a very effective
sticking-up on the dusty cart-track
through tea-tree scrub that the road was
then, and made quite a name for them-
selves amongst the heterogeneous popu-
lation seething about the Yarra in the
early days of the gold rushes.
Mr. Keel and Mr. Robinson, driving
out to their homes at Brighton in a gig,
noticed a couple of men carrying guns
ahead of them looking into the upper
foliage of wayside trees as though they
were out bird-shooting. But as the
vehicle came up behind them they sud-
denly wheeled round and covered its
astonished and incredulous occupants
with a couple of muskets.
“Keep still or we’ll blow your brains
out!” one of them shouted.
“That’s a good ’un!” laughed Mr.
Keel.
“Pair o’ cards! ” agreed Mr. Robinson.
But presently they found it wasn’t a
“sell” when they were ordered to drive
into the scrub, where they were speedily
and individually relieved of all respon-
sibility for £23 and £46. Two assistant
banditti mounted guard over them, and
during the next couple of hours a few
other victims came into the tea-tree, and
the four bushrangers reaped a profitable
dividend. As sunset approached they
decided to call it a day, just after a way-
farer named Moody, refusing to be bailed
up, had wheeled his horse round and
galloped off towards Melbourne. So
Tom Williams and Jack Flanagan, the
leading bushrangers, released their
prisoners and went off into the scrub.
They were not destined for a long
career as highwaymen, and were after-
wards to haunt the roads in much less
romantic capacity as members of chain-
gangs.
Neither had attempted any sort of dis-
guise, and the police were supplied with
good personal descriptions of the bush-
rangers. A day or two after the St.
Kilda-road affair they were seen near
Bacchus Marsh, and a little later robbed
a party of diggers on their way from
Bendigo to Melbourne at a place known
as Aitken’s Gap. The police decided on
a policy of watching and waiting, con-
fident that the bandits would sooner or
later come into Melbourne on the spree
or else to take ship for distant shores, and
were not disappointed.
Soon after twelve o’clock one night
some detectives encountered them on
horseback in Flinders-lane and acted
promptly. They were dragged from their
saddles, handcuffed and taken to the
watch-house. When searched, Williams
had £55 in gold and notes and Flanagan
£47 10s. Both of them were recognised
as old convicts from Van Diemen’s Land,
and also identified by some of their
quondam captives as the heroes of St.
Kilda-road. The jury brought in a ver-
dict of “guilty” when they were tried,
and each of them received three cumu-
lative sentences amounting to 30 years’
hard labor “on the roads.” Williams was
serving his sentence in the prison hulks
anchored off Williamstown, five years
afterwards, when John Price, Inspector-
General of Penal Establishments, was
murdered in the quarries, and took a
prominent part in the affair, for which
he was duly hanged outside Melbourne
Gaol. Concerning his mate history is
mute.
Although Victoria had never been a
convict settlement, the colony was singu-
larly unfortunate in having to put up with
the “old lags” who flocked to the gold-
fields from Van Diemen’s Land, and for
many years immigrant felonry provided
the province with difficult problems. In
the next generation the Kellys and their
kind were a legacy from this migration
across Bass Strait.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition will be continued until further notice. While it lasts two pages
•11 _ =. third may be added from time to time.
WI very 'week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates^
“Half the world doesn’t know how the other half lives. For the thoughtful
suggestion, aptly illustrated, that this ignorance is too complacent, a Bundaberg (Q.)
writer gets this week’s first prize.
The Other Fellow’s Life
Supposedly living in the “broadest” of
all ages, are we really broadminded when
people generally are satisfied with condi-
tions only which affect them immedi-
ately? They have their award rates, their
union's, their own interests and their own
friends, and they are content to leave the
running of society to those who will.
We are supposed to be a democratic
race, but how many of us know, or want
to know, how the other fellow lives.
I’m not advocating a general mobilisa-
tion of stickybeaks, but wouldn’t some
knowledge of what goes on in sustenance
offices, in juvenile courts and in hos-
pital out-patients’ departments make
for a broader view of things and give us
a better understanding of life?
How many people of our acquaintance
can say they have ever visited an old-age
home, a pawnbroker’s shop, a crippled
children’s home, a. miner’s cottage?
People these days are too busy even to
think outside their own four walls. One
of the fundamentals of living is recipro-
city, but how can this be practised to
advantage if we are instilled with the
doctrine of “I am not my brother s
keeper”?—S. Wilmington (Q.).
S. Wilmington, Box 36, Bundaberg
(Q.), wins the £3 35., plus space rates.
The Java Dutch and Us
It may seem strange to The Bulletin
to get a letter from Java, but if it weren’t
for the fact that the pink-covered paper
is sent from home in a batch of four
every month the few Australians in Soura-
baya would lose touch with the doings
down home. Not only do the Austra-
lians covet The Bully, but we now have
Dutchmen waiting for us to finish it so
they can take it home and ponder over it.
It is a surprising thing how much the
Dutch in the East know about our coun-
try. They are all hungry for news
about Sydney, and it seems to be one
ambition of theirs to see “Our Bridge”
and “Our Harbor.”
I think that the Dutch were more upset
by the death of Joe Lyons than we
were ourselves, and the way they follow
Australian politics and the situation over-
seas makes us feel a bit ashamed, and
wonder if we pay as much attention as
we should.
I might add that the most laughable
thing in Australia, according to their
views, are the drinking laws, which, after
all, make us (when home) feel self-con-
scious.—T. McCourt (Sourabaya, Java).
Cocktail Parties
Janet Nelson (B. 7/5/’39) prefers to
take her drink in comfort and at her
leisure. So do I, as I suppose does every-
one else who drinks. There is no argu-
ment about that. My kick was that
society’s drinking was perpetually
featured in the daily press, presumably
as something interesting, entertaining,
laudable and worthy of emulation.
While of the opinion that it might in-
terest society, it had no interest for the
majority of the reading public, and if the
press considers these happenings news
there is no more excuse for illustrating
them than there is for featuring society
going to bed.
After all, drinking intoxicants is not
novel, but is common to all races down
the ages, and whatever else it is it is not
a laudable practice or something to brag
about —at least, not to a P.M. in a police
court if one is unfortunate enough to be
involved in a motor accident whilst driv-
ing a car or when looking for a job.
As for society’s part in the next war,
I have no doubt the cocktail-drinkers will
be found playing their part along-
side the fellows who slip into the pub
at 5.50 p.m. and swallow a few quick
ones, as well as all the other good fellows
who take their tiddly at the milk-bar. —
F. A. N. (N.S.W.).
Start on the Young
I believe that every boy and girl on
commencing to earn wages should pay a
little income tax, even if only a penny in
the pound weekly. It would make them
understand that the country’s revenue is
derived mainly from taxation; conse-
quently, they would take a keener in-
terest in government, pay more attention
at election time, and know more about
whom and what we vote for. A better
class of politics and politicians would be
a result.
In addition to the amount of income
tax, I think a scheme could be arranged to
everyone’s satisfaction that we should all
pay a further small amount per week to-
wards sickness, unemployment and retir-
ing pension funds.
Contributing to these various funds,
everybody’s burden would be lightened,
"Who filled this thing with hydrogen ?”
and we should feel independent, knowing
that there was security ahead in times of
sickness, unemployment and old age. —
Gertrude Coates (Q.).
S.P. Parasites
The s.p. bookie appears to be harm-
less to the community, and so does the
snail which lives about the ponds in the
grazier’s paddock. But the snail is the
host for the dreaded liver-fluke, and the
s.p. bookie also breeds a swarm of
obnoxious parasites.
My new farmhand (done out of a job
as s.p. bookie’s “runner” by the new
tighter legislation) tells me of his ex-
boss’s “standover man,” who had the
amiable habit of poking a lighted cigar-
ette in his victim’s eye if his fiver a week
was not forthcoming. He also told me
of the gang of loutish youths who used
to follow him round and try to crowd
him into a corner when they knew he
was carrying betting money.
He earned his money easily in those
days, but now is glad to “get away from
the scum that follows the racing game.”
But the game goes on, and if we are not
careful we shall have our “racketeering”
problem just like the U.S.A. E. O.
Schlunke (N.S.W.).
Imported Singers
“W.P.T.” (B. 17/ 5/ ’39), usually a
reasonably-minded commentator, ap-
proaches the subject of foreigners com-
ing here to broadcast with some preju-
dice which js unjustified. Australia may
have artists quite as good, even better,
but “W.P.T.” might tell us where they
are. I am sure the A.B.C. would be quite
pleased to utilise their talents and trust
to their listeners to give them fair play.
Take two of the more recent “impor-
tations,” Tibbett and Lotte Lehmann. Is
it not rather the partisan view to claim
that Australia has two to compare with
them? There was unanimous endorse-
ment by the public of the critics’ praise,
in every case without qualifications.
'Trained in the hard schools of keenest
competition, London, Paris, New York,
Berlin, Vienna, such artists come with
ability to sing as perfectly finished singers,
and Australia’s musical culture is en-
riched thereby— Symph (W.A.).
A Bit of Engineering
We are threatened with another addi-
tion to the list of rackets. This time it is
an Australian-manufactured car. It is
already being suggested that a Govern-
ment bounty of £5O per car on a pro-
duction basis of 20,000 cars annually
would be required. That is £1,000,000
per annum to be met from Federal
revenue. The retail price of the car is
to be £350,
So the whole nation is to be saddled
with this burden to supply an engine that
we can already obtain, if we can afford
to buy one, more cheaply in England
and America.
Car-buyers are being told to-day that
85 p.c. of the car they purchase is made
in Australia, yet the retail price for an
American car is about three times as
much as in the country of origin. The
Australian price for an English car is
more than double the English price. Ex-
change and freight, etc., on the imported
15 p.c. cannot account for this vast price
difference. There ought to be room here
for an enterprising company to produce
an all-Australian car and get the legiti-
mate benefits ,of tariff protection.
Any secondary industry which cannot
exist without Government support is a
racket.
It is no answer to say that these engines
are needed for defence. If this were the
case the Government could buy a reserve
of engines and store them. They would
not go bad. If our engine supply were
cut off in war-time this reserve would
last as long as the petrol supply. There
is no need for this, however, as every car
on the road is a reserve engine in case
G f war
Someone will soon be looking for
£1,000,000 per annum. When such
mighty axes are being ground is it any
wonder that we need 13 grindstones?—
t>T nxo (NSW!
a capital proposal
the abolition of the capital (B.
24/5/’39) may have some virtues about
it but there is one grave objection, about
85 p.c. of our knowledge comes through
the eye, and the look of things is hence
of great importance to the development
of the human animal.
if governors king, bligh and macquarie
scattered capitals all over the pages of
their letters they may have had a sound,
if unconscious, reason for it. the capi-
tals gave a pleasing variety, which, no
doubt, added to the impressiveness of
an official dispatch to london and helped
to capture the attention of some bored
colonial office official. the lovers of
ancient days not only used capitals in
profusion but italics and every other
device to catch the eye of the beloved.
that verse writers and advertisers may
have abandoned capitals is no argument,
verse writers have merely adopted a
reverse method of attracting attention,
and advertisers seek variety in a million
other ways formerly unavailable, most
modern printing is monotonous compared
with gothic and early english.
if “sans-serif” doubts the capital value
of the capital let him compare the look
of this bit of print with that of those
surrounding it. —s. g .m. (vie.).
Ties of the Empiah
Being a good Australian, I hied to the
Martin-place, Sydney, gathering on
Empire Day. A number of gentlemen
with the best Oxford bleat harangued the
crowd about our Glorious Empiah and
what we owed to England. I was afraid
they would bring up something about
our national debt, but their decency in
this respect was probably due to igno-
rance of what it really is.
What really arrested my attention was
the number of Homburg and Italian hats
that hid the bald heads of these one-day-
in-the-year Empiah men. Some smoked
French and Italian briar pipes filled with
American tobacco, others stuck Havana
cigars and Egyptian cigarettes between
their teeth and came and went in Ameri-
can- and Italian-built cars. — Aussie
(N.S.W.).
Chiang Kai-shek
It is rather difficult to understand why
The Bulletin, usually fair-minded, so
persistently “knocks” China. The latest
knock is in “Uncabled Additions” (B.
26 /4/’39) under the heading of “China’s
Wily Diplomats” (condensed from the
“National Review”).
Of course they have been wily. I have
always thought it was part of the diplo-
matic same, but I hardly think that this
is a monopoly of the
Chinese. A few recent
examples of this wiliness
within the past few
months are, perhaps,
better not recalled.
The emergence of
Chiang Kai-shek as a
leader is, I think, due to
his inherent abilities,
which few will dispute,
and in a lesser degree to
his marriage to Soong
Mei Lin. That the
success of his regime has
brought riches to some is
not denied. The same thing has also
happened in other countries, but China,
being China, takes it as no more than
was expected.
What was not expected—and herein lies
the foundation of Chiang’s popularity
was the benefits that accrued to the coun-
try as a whole. They included the exten-
sion of the authority of the Central Gov-
ernment, the abolition of the war lords,
the inauguration of a road, railway and
air programme (bringing immediate bene-
fits to a country in dire need of trans-
portation facilities), the increasing volume
of manufactures, and, above all, the
stabilisation of the currency. These last
two items, currency control and increas-
ing manufactures, were a pain in the neck
to Japan, who had visions of not only
losing her China market but having a
competitor in world trade that could more
than meet her on her own ground of
cheap-labor costs.
The conquest of the northern provinces
and their addition to Manchukuo was
Japan’s method of obtaining the assured
market that she required, and which, for
the time being, would have satisfied her
needs. That this line of action, so easy
and successful in the past, would involve
her in a major war was the last thing
that Japan expected. Time alone will
tell if it was wise on the part of China.
That China would have the guts to fight
back, and, at the present moment, after
nearly two years of major hostilities,
would still be fighting back, was never
even dreamt of by anyone, and the awak-
ening for Japan has been far from
pleasant. This spirit and this unity, from
whatever source they come —whether
leadership or Japanese bombings—have
surprised the Chinese as much as they
have other nations, and for as long as they
continue Japan has a hard row to hoe.
Whether she will fulfil her imperial des-
tiny or break her imperial neck I don’t
know.
The mention of Cantonese opposition
to Chiang Kai-shek and his policy is well
worth noting. In Chinese affairs the
Cantonese occupy a position analogous
to that of the N. S. Walesers in Aus-
tralia-just plain —— narks. It is


possible that they will turn the scales—
which way, I hardly think they know
themselves. As in Noo South, the Can-
tonese are like that.— O-Mei-Shan (Hong
Kong).
War Pensions
Many who chewed hard over the
Lyons grant did not belong to the legion-
of-the-paltry (B. 24/5/ ’39). They com-
mended Federal members on their
promptitude and generosity in so honor-
ing an Australian whose service to his
country no doubt shortened his years.
But they remembered the families of
other Australians whose service to their
country in 1914-1918 undoubtedly short-
ened their years.
Crowds of returned men, broken in
health to-day, cannot secure adequate
pensions to keep them and their depen-
dants because they cannot produce abso-
lute evidence of a definite link between
their present sufferings and some war-
time symptoms, even though they were
trained, fit men and as hard as nails in
those days.
In a similar spirit of generosity Fed-
eral members might well demand that
the onus of proving their cases be taken
from these war wrecks. Let it be incum-
bent on pension tribunals to prove that
service to their country could not have
caused their present condition. —A. W. L.
(N.S.W.).
“Freedom”
Freedom of the press (B. 17/5/’39), or
freedom of anything else in our society
to-day, is a myth.
The nearest approach to freedom is
savagery. Even the naked savage is sub-
ject to the rule of a physically stronger
tribesman —equivalent to a military dic-
tatorship. He also has his jujus and
witch doctors, and is thus dominated by
religious influences. And the savage dic-
tator is probably henpecked.
In any organised society there must be
control. It is only a matter of choosing
the control that best serves the com-
munity as a whole.
There could be political control. This,
after all, is control by the people’s duly-
elected representatives. There could be
control by capital as represented by banks
and financial interests. There could be
religious control by the paid propagan-
dists of any or all religious cults. There
could be military control or control by
any of a hundred minorities all ambitious
for power.
As far as the press is concerend, prob-
ably a blending of the many is the best.
The public as individuals are not always
the best judges, as witness the periodical
rise to huge circulation, until suppressed,
of the vilest sort of publication.— Ack.
D. (Q.).
Australian Air Routes
All of us are aware that every air route
to and from this country has been
pioneered by Australian aviators. They
were a gallant and capable band, and the
names of Ross and Keith Smith, Kings-
ford Smith, Hinkler and others are house-
hold words. Yet unless Qantas Imperial
Airways will pass muster as a fully Aus-
tralian company, not one of the routes
over which our own pilots were the first
to take all risks has been reserved for
Australian-owned companies to carry on
the services.
Kingsford Smith tried very hard to
get the right to the Tasman route kept
for his fellow-countrymen, and, at least,
that service should have been regarded as
the concern only of an Australian and
Maoriland company. Nevertheless, the
contract was handed to the English, and
the delays and postponements are what
might have been expected in consequence.
Now an Australian, Captain P. G.
Taylor, after great efforts has succeeded
in arranging, through the Commonwealth
Government, and with the co-operation
of the American owner of the flying-
boat Guba, a survey flight of a new route
across the Indian Ocean. With ordinary
good fortune this will be successfully
accomplished. What then? Will the
right to fly this route also be barred to
Australian enterprise? For heaven’s sake
let us at least keep it for Captain Taylor
and his fellow-countrymen, and let us be
a little more shy of the word “Imperial”!
That word now seems to indicate: “For
British Exploitation Only.”—A. C.
Willis (N.S.W.).
Dollypot or Dole
In these days of liberal education
various technical colleges and trade
schools are fully equipped to turn out
competent tradesmen and artisans. These
trained men can then, if they wish, im-
prove their education by attending uni-
versity extension lectures or W.E.A.
courses. So far, so good. Such artisans
are dependent upon established industries
for a livelihood. But what of the man
who opens up new fields of employment
—the prospector? Why not a school for
prospectors? The world’s master pros-
pectors, Captain Trelawney and his
fellow Cousin Jacks, have mostly gone
underground for the last time. Many of
the fields they pioneered have passed
into the hands of farmers. And in those
districts the use of dish and dollypot is
a forgotten art.
A young chap stranded in the city or
unemployed in a mining town could do
much worse than roll up his swag and ge
out prospecting. But what reasonable
chance has he of success? The days of
the gold rushes when bank clerks,
counterjumpers and other white-collared
gentry blundered into wealth by sheer
luck are long past. The present-day pros-
pector has generally to glean the leavings
of the old-timers. And anyone who has
ratted over an old mining camp knows
just how thorough old Cap’n Jan and his
cronies were.
A school for prospectors, run by
practical men, could work wonders for
any youngster with a dash of adventure
in his veins. Dry technicalities could be
avoided and strict attention paid to the
practical aspects of prospecting. A train-
ing scheme for prospectors in British
Columbia includes instruction in cooking,
darning, mending and similar household
occupations. The average young Aus-
tralian need hardly be taught these ele-
mentary adjuncts to outback life.
Even if young prospectors didn’t strike
it rich, what of it? They would be quali-
fied to open up new mineral areas or dis-
prove old ones, and their apprenticeship
would give them a flying start in getting
a job in the mining industry. Graduates
of such a school could be given practical
assistance in the form of a subsidy to
cover cost of tucker and tools while out
working at their trade. Better the dolly-
pot than the dole.— Telluride (N.S.W.).
Graded Wireless Fees
License fees for wireless sets should
vary according to the range of reception
of the model for which it is obtained.
Thus a minimum fee could be set at
10s. a year for a cabinet model, 7s. 6d.
for a mantel model, ss. for a car radio
and 2s. 6d. for a crystal set. The license
fee for any model could then be calcu-
lated on this basis, according to its re-
ceptive range.
An arrangement suclf as this would
obviate what to me is the most flagrant
injustice in the heavy license fee—at
present the charge is the same for the
huge worldwide-reception model run by
Mr. Tunsuvoof and for the crystal set,
bringing in, at best, four or five stations,
run by Mr. Amateur. —A. J. Humphries
(Tas.).
Minority Rules
Who started the yarn that majority
rules? In these days we hear more about
minorities—minorities in this country,
minorities in that, even minorities in
trade-unions (B. 24/ 5/ ’39). And when it
comes down to tin-tacks the minority
rules practically everything.
Take politics, for instance. The
majority of people vote for their pet
party regardless of whether the candidate
is a genius or a half-wit. What, then,
brings about a change of Government?
The swing vote —in other words, the
minority!
Further, take the Federal Government.
At any tick of the clock the minority
(the C.P.) could overthrow the majority
(the U.A.P.). Once again minority
rules.
In sport we have the same thing, A
hundred or two loud-mouthed louts in
a crowd of thousands, and visiting
sportsmen leave Australia with a poor
opinion of our sportsmanship.
Yet one more example a little closer
home: I recently went to a Sunday
charity concert. An excellent show, the
hundreds of listeners would have enjoyed
the items if a very small minority hadn’t
decided to get in a bit of whistling
practice, combined with a lot of alleged
funny remarks, completely drowning the
artists. The result: One per cent, enjoyed
themselves, ninety-nine per cent, didn't.
Then one solitary policeman entered
the building, and instantly peace reigned
supreme. Once again the minority
ruled.—B. A. Ker (N.S.W.).
Children and Sex
So many people talk about exercising
a little commonsense before “plunging
into marriage” (B. 12/4/’39) that I
wonder why so many parents shirk their
responsibilities as to the education of
their offspring in the important subject
of sex.
To my way of thinking children should
be answered truthfully when they are old
enough to ask questions seriously. They
are naturally clean-minded, and if
answered in a straightforward, sincere
way they will be satisfied and will come
to you when they wish to know more. If
you keep putting them off with silly little
lies they will soon cease to bother you,
but will go elsewhere for their infor-
mation, only to be told a lot of half-
truths in a manner that is not so clean.
Keep the children carefree, light-
hearted and gay certainly—in fact, be a
child yourself with them —but if you
value their love and the trust they have
in you don’t let them grow up in
ignorance.— Judith (Q.).
The Younger Man
What is urgently required in Australia
is a standard retiring age for every man
in the country. Too many in the com-
munity are emulating Lang, who says “I
will not resign!” At present a laborer
must retire at 65, but a politician may sit
in Parliament until he is an octogenarian,
provided he can get sufficient votes.
Why make flesh of one and fish of
another? If my idea became general,
thousands of men would find employ-
ment. Whether or not a man at 65 is in
his prime (intellectually) is immaterial.
The fact is that he is standing in the way
of a younger man. Is it not a fearful
indictment against the nation that an
overwhelming proportion of men on the
dole are youthful?
No man, however learned, is indispen-
sable. If, for instance, the mortality was
particularly heavy among the judiciary,
the cause of justice would not be im-
peded. There are numerous brilliant legal
men awaiting their opportunity but
denied it because of an I-am-indispen-
sable attitude.
When Mr. Menzies formed his Cabinet
his first remark was: “The young men
have been given their chance.” That
statement could emanate only from a
statesman. But what a thousand pities
that it is limited to Canberra!—A. Daly
(S.A.).
British Conscription 1918 and Now
Conscription in Britain is a move in
the right direction and should tend to
halt aggression. Had conscription been
in force in Britain in 1914 the Great
War might have been averted.
Some writers appear to have the idea
that the conscript British army was
mainly responsible for the winning of
the Great War, and in support of this
idea the fact is instanced (“Britain Faces
Compulsion,” B. 3/5/’39) that “the
greatest successes of the war were
obtained in 1918, by which time the
British army had become a conscript
force.”
To my mind the principal factors re-
sponsible for the British successes in
July-November, 1918, were: The ap-
pointment of Foch as Generalissimo of
the Allied force on the Western Front
and consequent adoption of superior
battle tactics; near-starvation in Ger-
many, and weakening of German morale
owing to the inability of the Govern-
ment to gull the people any longer ; the
increasing force of American troops in
the battle line; and American loan
money to Britain.
There is no doubt that the morale of
the conscript British army was far from
strong in 1918 ; the men were generally
“fed-up,” and “end the war at any price”
had caught on they had been over-
disciplined and were consequently
cowed.
Such a state of affairs never existed'
in the splendid fighting units of the
volunteer A.LF., in which the morale
was never higher than in 1918.
Twenty-odd years is a long time ago,
and I have no doubt that the men of
Britain’s 1939 conscript army will be
well and efficiently trained without bully-
ing and browbeating, and will be the
equal at least of any other conscript
force. —A. J. H. (Q.).
Is it Any Wonder?
In a speech at Murwillumbah (N.S.W.)
General Glasgow expressed surprise that
the Murwillumbah unit of the 41st Bat-
talion had not yet reached its full
strength.
The reason is not far to seek. For
the past ten years or more young men
have been thrown out of employment by'
parsimonious employers when they have
reached the age of 21. Hundreds tramp
the roads between one State and another
seeking vainly for work and subsisting on
food relief; others hang about street
corners and pubs absorbing the clap-
trap philosophies of half-baked intellects,
who draw odious comparisons between
the shortage of labor in Germany and
Italy and the unemployment figures in
Australia and other parts of the British
Empire.
These young fellows prove fertile
ground in which to implant the seed of
subservient creeds and consequent dis-
loyalty.—E. H. Morgan (N.S.W.).
Rifle-club Training
I disagree with the statement by
“G.V.R.” (B. 10/5/’39) that riflemen are
only brought to “an elementary stage of
training.” As a militiaman, I have found
my rifle-club training of inestimable value
to me, and it is noticeable that most crack
militia marksmen are riflemen.
As for peep-sights and slings, these are
necessary for accurate shooting over such
long ranges as 800, 900 and 1000 yards;
furthermore, on active service one would
be shooting from trenches or concealed
positions and have sandbags, etc., as rests
—a greater advantage than the sling.
Under these circumstances it would be
quite easy for snipers to use peep-sights,
as was done frequently during the Great
War.
Riflemen’s efficiency in snap-shooting
may be judged from the following. With
28 points out of 35 I was not placed in
the first 317 in a snap-shooting match at
Williamstown (Vic.) recently, and S. H.
Stephens, of Wangarafta, who scored a
possible in the same match, has a record
of 29 consecutive bull’s-eyes in this type
of shooting.
In conclusion, let me mention General
lan Hamilton as one of many military
leaders to state publicly his respect for
the high standard of efficiency amongst
riflemen. — Simon Scrawler (Vic.).
Racing
I went to several race meetings lately
and noticed lots of happy faces, especially
on the horses. After all, racing is done
for the horses’ benefit, and I was par-
ticularly pleased to notice they were
grateful.
There is no doubt that we Australians
are a great horse-loving community,
otherwise why should thousands toil out
to these racecourses if it were not for the
sake of improving the breed? I mean
the horse breed.
As for betting—some does go on, I
expect, but it’s only for the sake of en-
couraging the horses. A horse runs
much better if he knows there is a few'
shillings behind him. And who is to say
that this is wrong? I asked a bookmaker
about it, and he said he wasn’t fussy.
No. Horseracing has been going on
in Australia for the past 110 years, and
everyone can see what fine horses we
have as a result of it. In the words of
Michael Angelo, or Michael Arlen, or
Michael Collins (I forget which politician
it was) —“If you want to see my monu-
ment, look around y0u....” Fred
Starcher (N.S.W.).
Protect Local Writers
A member of the reading public re-
cently complained that in buying an
English, an American and an Australian
magazine he paid for the same story
three times over. The Australian writer
complains that this same practice of
using syndicated material from other
papers is cutting his legitimate market
from under his feet.
Some mitigation of both evils might
be accomplished by adopting a form of
trade-mark.
A small notice:in red print that “first
rights were held by Magazine, Eng-
land,” would be a warning to the wary,
and an indication as to which Australian
publications supported local industry and
were therefore most deserving of local
support.— Red Ink (Vic.).
Australia and Japan
Recent cables from Asia suggest
that the Japanese Government is realis-
ing that to make a military alliance with
Germany and Italy against the democ-
racies would undoubtedly lose for lapan
some of her best customers, notably Aus-
tralia, India and South Africa. Japanese
spokesmen have' frequently stated that
Japan’s military efforts are solely to
obtain peaceful markets for her manu-
factures ; but also to be noted is the fact
that the army and the businessmen are
not in agreement about the method of
getting markets.
At present the military party is the
stronger, and herein lies a point that Aus-
tralians may well take to heart —one of
vital interest to us all. Refuse to buy
Japanese goods, throw Japanese factory
operatives out of work, and what will
happen? To save them from starvation
the logical course is to turn them into
munition workers and soldiers, intensify-
ing the struggle for markets with guns
and bombs. That we should continue to
be good customers, even to increase our
custom, means support for the peaceable
Japanese tradesman, and is surely a
policy of commonsense for Australia. Let
us talk no more of boycott! —D. E. H.
(S.A.).


(VVx
T "t r *
Mi
a
£
;f^
t/
;
r>
I
SI
Qe
w
%FOOLISH
FORTIES
Are Sometimes Serious .
When we reach the forty-year mark, many of us are inclined to be
humorous about it. We talk about “the foolish forties,” and refer to ourselves
as the older generation.
Just the same, reaching the half-way mark in life is not. funny. Some
people are inclined to try to keep young by doing the foolish things they did
in youth. Others feel melancholy and take little interest in life. A few are
sensible, adjusting their pleasures to their age and enjoying the companion-
ship of their family and friends.
But the great majority, even the sensible few, do not recognise the great
danger of the forties. They realise that they sometimes have little endurance
or energy, that their nights are frequently sleepless, that their complexion is
poor, that they wake feeling tired. But they blame their ailments on
middle age.
They are only partly right. The real probability is that they are slightly
and continually constipated. Their constipation is due to their age—to a
slowing down of physical activity—to altered habits or mode of living—
sometimes to changes in bodily constitution. And the danger is that their
lowered vitality reduces their resistance to serious, or even fatal, diseases and
ailments.
The first essential to health and happiness in the forties is proper
elimination. The number of bowel movements necessary each day varies with
different people, but should not be materially less than in youth. When they
are less, you should act at once. Do not wait until your constipation becomes
chronic.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills afford an excellent relief from middle-age
constipation. They sire made entirely of herbs, containing no harsh salts or*
synthetic drugs. You can easily regulate the dosage to your requirements,
with entire safety and freedom from pain or griping.
Try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills when next you feel the symptoms of
constipation. They are more than a good laxative. They stimulate the
digestive organs and assist your system in getting back to normal.
Dr.MCRSES
k
A\ADE IN AUSTRALIA
PILLS
for Simple Constipation and Attendant Ills .
No More Work
Roughened Hands
To keep the hands soft and white
it is essential that they should not be
wetted too frequently. Household
duties of all kinds, to say nothing of
factory work, are detrimental, and
once the hands are thoroughly
roughened it is a difficult matter to
restore the natural softness and
whiteness, and still continue work-
ing. However, with care and atten-
tion a great deal can be done to
prevent an unsightly appearance.
After any hard work they should be
well cleaned with good soap and
warm water, and when thoroughly
dried Mirpil rubbed well into the
skin, repeating the operation two or
three times on each occasion.
Mirpil is also soothing for Sun-
burn, Windburn, After Shaving, and
provides an excellent powder base.
Try rubbing on soles of sore, tired
feet before retiring at night.
Obtainable from all leading
chemists and stores or from The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney, N.S.W., or 6 Farish
Street, Wellington, N.Z. Price 2/6
per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
j
'fO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
i enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
AUSTRALIAN
BURKSES
rAND BITERS]
The Australian Cattle-dog, *i-
the Kelpie, the Barb, /
Bush Greyhounds, Fox-
terriers and many .
C- ' - AyX
others
this
splendid book
on Dogs.
V’
IS Xow reduced ol
Xi to 2/2 - Y
Robert KafesAi \ (l'ost
« s free). .ft,
. '
256 Pages
(illustrated)
GO**
,t T9 -c,e e ..
,«4#
.• *• c *0$l


Nurse finds immediate relief in
m
against
Croup, Colds
Bronc hit is,
Coughs,
Wonderful results in the safe, certain, rapid' treatment against
these complaints are reported by Nurse Williams, of North Sydney,
who says:—
“I am continually exposed to infection and must keep myself in
the pink of good health. I have found a really reliable remedy in
'Mountain Peppermint.’ The formula is excellent as 1 know from
my nursing experience, It may be given with safety to young
children or to anyone who needs its special benefits.”
(Signed) Nurse Williams, Nth. Sydney, 18/3/’39.
Works Through Bloodstream!
Soothes, Relieves, Heals!
This amazing triple-acting com-
pound of Carrageen, Peppermint
and Thymus contains all the vital
extracts needed to banish these
complaints. Its unique bloodstream
action carries its active ingredients
to every part of the lungs, air pas-
sages and catarrhal mucous mem-
branes. It sweeps away respiratory
disorders and impregnates the
membrane cells with anti-germ
properties. Thus it gives genuine
•v:-.
m?.
■&
relief stops coughing, relieves
pain, loosens accumulated phlegm,
eases breathing, speeds recovery.
SAFE FOR CHILDREN, TOO!
Safe enough even for baby,
tain Peppermint 11 ’ is the ideal family
remedy. Read this letter from a
mother:—■
“Living as I do in the country, my
children on long walks to school
and playing in the orchard are ex-
posed to all weathers and always
had sniffling colds from April to
November-—sometimes sore throats
and bronchitis, too. This year I
gave them ‘Mountain Peppermint’
and coughs disappeared completely
and I was amazed at the instan-
taneous relief given them.”
(Signed) Mrs. E. White,
“Dinya,” Kurrajong, 18/3/’39.
j
ĵ
Manufactured in one
of the most up-to-
date hygienic
laboratories in the
Southern Hemi-
sphere, to which is
attached a fully
qualified doctor of
Medicine, and under
the control of Chemists who were
trained in the most modern and largest
English Laboratories in the world.
■
k
Family Size,
Boz. bottle,
64
DOSES. d'O
THE
bq l*m
AKE
CONTENTS
a FLUID ozs.
HER
DEFENCE
&■" N
riNFLUENZAk
WHOOPING COUGH
CROUP
* BRONCHITIS
VCOUGHSeCOLOSJ
mm
ETC
DOSE; Adults. I to 2 teaspoonsfuf;
Children, 5 to 15 years, 1 teaspoonful;
« to 5 years, f teaspoonful; under
J year, 5 to 10 drops. To be sipped
slowly every 3 hours or as directions
the enclosed pamphlet,
includes Ammonium,
10 VITAL
BENEFITS
1. Stops pain in
throat and chest.
2. Reduces tem-
perature eases
headaches.
3. Loosens phlegm.
4. Stops coughing.
5. Ends sniffling.
6. Clears nos e,
throat and
bronchial tubes of
germ-laden mucus.
7. Soothes inflamed
mucous membranes.
8. Makes breathing
easy.
9. Assists digestion.
10. Soothes tickling
nerves brings
sweet sleep.
Manufactured in the famous
BIDOMAK Laboratories.
,/s
V'-A
.•■■• ..
*j£\ .1
\ ■
, N
■ . '
A
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES.
Product of the Douglas Drug Company, Sydney, Adelaide, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth. Sole Wholesale Agents for lasmania: L. Fairthorne & Son Pty., Ltd., Launceston
