

*
m
CORRECT EASY ADJUSTMENT
INCORPORATED WITH POCKET
mm
IB
m
m
¥
.
■4
:
Si
m
m
FOR SPORTS AND EVERYDAY WEAR
Q
regd
jf Self-supporting —NO ELASTIC
¥ Perfect waist fitting
4 No puckering —guaranteed
4" Comfort and ease ... for every need
TO GOLFERS
Reduce your golf handicap by reducing
your waist handicap —
Wear BREKS
NO ELASTIC to pucker or perish
Procurable at all progressive stores. Any difficulty in
this direction should be referred to
BOX 1617 8.8., G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W., or
BOX 262, G.P.0., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
The Bulletin
Randwick Races—Page 30
Vol. 60.—N0. 3087.
Wednesday, April 12, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1939.
<£.300
The Prize is open this year to any
prose work —fiction, biography, autobiography,
history, etc.
Authors will assist if they will forward
entries as soon as they are ready and not wait
until the last few days. The earlier MSS. are
forwarded the earlier the judges will be able
to announce their decision.
Each MS. must be entered with author’s
pen-name attached ; full name and address to
accompany it in a sealed envelope, which will
not be opened until after the judges have
reached their decision.
Intending competitors have now only eight
weeks to complete and enter MSS.
ķ
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free BooUet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised m the Sydney cOLLti •
My Name
My Address
S.B. 339
The Red Page
POETS IN SHOALS.
It may be observed by the biologist that chil-
dren, certain types of fishes and English poets con-
gregate in schools. D. Kilham Roberts and Geoffrey
Grigson offer a report on the year’s work in The
Year’s Poetry, 1938 (Bodley Head). Everybody, their
preface indicates, is a bit larky this year, but none
the worse for that! Poets will be boys, God bless
’em!
“Waiting for the end, boys, waiting for the end,”
says W. Empson, having his just smack at Auden (and
other poets) on page 48. But there is less of that par-
ticular kind of gloom in the selections we have made
this year. All these 65 poems are not crisis poetry....
There is a smell of light verse about....To quote one
of the poets, “Everyone is at times cynical or irritated
or frivolous or good-humoredly or bad-humorediy
critical or whimsical or lightly philosophical or merely
full of animal high spirits. Such common and natural
moods find their expression in the lighter kinds of
poetry.” Poets admit once more that they have common
and natural moods. Surely this is a good thing.
The statement is not quite clear on one fairly
important point. Was the air so charged with the
scent of light verse, so reeking (to use their own
terminology) with fun and bonhomie, that Mr. Roberts
and Mr. Grigson were forced to make a merry
anthology; or is it that these frolicsome editors,
wanting light verse, were assiduous in sniffing it out?
Did they nose about Russell-square? If so, Mr. Eliot
couldn’t have been feeling cheerful this year, for he
isn’t included. Did they hunt Roy Campbell up in
Spain, and did he tell them he kept a bull especially
for tail-waggers? He, too, is absent.
What really happened is that Auden and Louis
MacNeice, two good poets, both wrote some excel-
lent light verse, and the rest followed suit. Auden
had been experimenting with Byron’s stanza, had
written the fine “Six Crippled Beggars,” and some
thinnish pieces which are included in The Year’s
Poetry. MacNeice wrote his amazingly ingenious
“Bagpipe Music” (reprinted in the anthology). Hence
“poets admit once more that they have common and
natural moods.” Slums are off/dictators are off, and
hats will be worn mad this year. How boyish
the boys can be is exemplified by Empson’s title
“Just a Smack at Auden.” It’s quite a good poem
and quite a good satire, and carrying on the cama-
raderie of the quad, into adult life may be all very
well; but the day some bloodhound of jollity dis-
covers an unknown manuscript of Keats’s entitled
“Just a Smack at Shelley” present commentator will
jolly well complain to the Head.
It is more “surely a good thing” that the poets in
this anthology are becoming less obscure. The young
Dylan Thomas, who in Twenty-five Poems (Dent)
showed a magnificent command of language and an
even more magnificent command of obscurity, has
something here about Ann Jones with a meaning as
plain as her name. Charles Madge, who used to
write algebra, is lucid on the subject of bicycles. The
book, indeed, isn’t nearly as full of animal high spirits
and whimsicality as the editors suggest. Yeats is in,
and Day Lewis.
Lewis is in another recent anthology, Icarus, an
Anthology of Flight (Macmillan), a collection obvi-
ously intended to be read by the air-minded and
selected in the extraordinary belief that aviators would
be interested in Keats on goldfinches, Milton on the
flight of Satan, and the psalm beginning “Oh that
I had wings like a dove!” Day Lewis’s account of
Parer and Mclntosh flying to Australia is the best of
the poems that have to do with aviation. A bit
about aeroplanes is dragged out of Michael Roberts’s
“Elegy for the Fallen Climbers,” but the three young
Air Force cadets who prepared the anthology
shouldn’t have vivisected the poem. The extract in
no way indicates that as a whole it is one of the
loveliest things that has been written in England for
a long time.
Icarus is assuredly not a good thing. The Col-
lected Poems of Hart Crane, very handsomely turned
out by Boriswood, are a good thing, though they are
hard work. It used to be said of a poet in an awed
whisper, “Mr. Wordsworth is engaged on ‘a poem of
some length’ ” ; now it can be said, with the same
note of reverence, “Mr. X is busy on ‘a poem of
some obscurity.’ ” Crane’s long poem “The Bridge,”
despite an introduction explaining it, is a poem of
great obscurity. As in “The Waste Land,” past and
present are the same Time, so that Columbus and
Bert Williams, Pocahontas and Mr. Powitzsky, Walt
Whitman and Aunt Sally Simpson are symbols in
the same myth, with the Bridge intended to “synthe-
sise the world of chaos.”
Individual sections in “The Bridge” are clear
enough, and there are passages of much beauty. In
the close-wrought lyrics grouped under, the title
“White Buildings” there are poems admired in Eng-
land as well as in America, including the famous:
Look steadily—how the wind feasts and spins
The brain’s disk shivered against lust. Then watch
While darkness, like an ape’s face, falls away,
And gradually white buildings answer day.
Crane, a mystic, perpetually uses the s#a as an
emblem of the absolute. A few years ago, when a
symbolic unity with the deep waters could not satisfy
him (his feeling for the sea greatly resembles Walt
Whitman’s wooing of it as a symbol of death in “Out
of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking”), he leapt to his
death from the deck of a steamer.
His verse is at once harsher and shallower than
that of the German mystic, Rainer Maria Rilke,
whose Later Poems, translated by J. B. Leishman,
come from the Hogarth Press. Rilke, a poet of the
first importance, attains a fine clarity of thought and
image. In his earlier work there were short poems
with the directness of:
Whoever wanders somewhere in the world
Wanders in vain in the world
Wanders to me.
Whoever dies somewhere in the world
Dies without cause in the world
Looks at me.
In the present book there is the simplicity of “Early
Spring”:
Harshness gone. And sudden mitigation
Laid upon the field’s uncovered grey.
Little runnels change their intonation.
Tentative caresses stray
Round the still earth from immensity.
Roads run far into the land, foretelling.
Unexpectedly you find it, welling
Upwards in the empty tree.
There are war poems (odd reading at the moment),
religious poems, nature poems, the sparkling lyrics
of “The Landscape of Love,” and the translation,
apart from a few remarkable gaucheries, is sym-
pathetic.
Last on the list, and not merely a “good thing”
but a beautiful one, is The Holy Sonnets of John
Donne, with four engravings by Eric Gill, published
by Dent for Hague and Gill. Bound in a black cloth,
printed on rag paper in Gill’s 14pt. Bunyan type, and
in an edition limited to 500, it’s a superb setting for
the hard, clean sonnets.
Batter my heart, three person’d God; for you
As yet but knocke, breathe, shine, and seeke to mend;
That I may rise, and stand, o’erthrow mee, and bend
Your force, to breake, blowe, burn and make me new.
The English price is 10s. 6d.
Popular Australian Books.
From New Century Press come two books that
should appeal to those who like a local setting and
a yarn that is firm but doesn’t make excessive de-
mands of the reader, In Ben Boyd’s Day, by Will
Lawson, and Apron Strings, by Mary Kelaher.
The first tells the story of Ben Boyd in Australia,
“with romantic additions to illustrate the strong pur-
pose of the man and also his weaknesses.” Among
the latter, apparently, was a leaning toward the ladies.
Boyd was more than a whaler ; he was a romantic
adventurer with, at least at the beginning of his Aus-
tralian experiences, a fairly deep purse. He sailed
from Britain in his own yacht Wanderer, established
himself at Twofold Bay, where he went in for whal-
ing, trading and squatting. He made a road to his
properties in the Monaro and built in stone the be-
ginnings of what, with better luck or saner manage-
ment, might have developed into a considerable city.
He established his own bank at Boydtown, ship-
yards at Sydney, did a little company promoting and
experimented very unsuccessfully with Kanaka labor.
Boydtown reached a population of 500 and was
a busy place, but Boyd was a born wild-catter and
overreached himself in all directions. Bad times in
New South Wales, just before the discovery of gold,
helped to finish him. He attempted to stave off defeat
with a spot of local inflation, issuing paper money
from his Boydtown bank.
He sailed from Australia in the Wanderer and, still
in his best vein, attempted to establish a federation
of South Sea Islands. He went ashore at Guadal-
canar and failed to return to his ship. He was
searched for but never found. The Wanderer, too, was
lost, being wrecked on the return voyage to Sydney.
Lawson could not have found a real-life story better
suited to his gifts. Boyd comes to life in his hands,
ashore and afloat the atmosphere is convincing, the
tale moves swiftly and with reasonable fidelity to
historic fact, despite the “romantic additions,” which
can be guessed at by the reader.
David Warren, the leading character of Mary
Kelaher’s Apron Strings, was lovingly but thoroughly
bullied by a too-possessive mother from the day of
his birth. She chose his friends for him in childhood,
and his wife when he grew up. She then married a
picturesque waster, which cost him the station prop-
erty he might have inherited. His wife took over
reins and whip from his mother. She chose where
they should live, their manner of life and, with the
exception of one disastrous venture when he received
a small legacy, the means by which he should earn
his living. When he was in trouble with his em-
ployer he was in trouble with his wife for not being
a successful man like his brother-in-law. His daugh-
ters took their cue from their mother and went one
better in that they had scant affection for him while
she had a good deal in a misguided way.
The book opens when David, stricken before his
time, is on his deathbed. It tells his life story in
retrospect and concludes with a scene in which David’s
last muttered words are taken by his wife to indi-
cate his devotion to her. They are nothing of the
kind.
This story might have been very drab in the
telling, but it is saved from that by the sympathetic
nature of the leading figure. It stirs no deeps but,
like the author’s previous novels, The Green Years
and Lost Enchantment, it is handled with skill. The
background, a good deal of it rural, is touched
deftly and agreeably. The minor characters share
reality equally with the major ones. Joan, the
younger daughter, soft and lovable as a child, had
“hardened in a modernity that David could not
reach even if he wanted to.” Monica, the elder,
stage-managed David’s death scene as she stage-
managed everything, “storing up reserves of self-
applause that she might enjoy later.”
Sheila Kaye-Smith's Autobiography.
All her life Sheila Kaye-Smith has had three
refuges—religion, authorship and the Sussex country-
side —and so she calls her autobiography Three Ways
Home (Cassell). It is the story of a life of happy ful-
filment, full, perhaps, of spiritual adventures but
outwardly placid and fortunate.
She was the elder daughter of a Hastings doctor.
A plain little girl with a forehead that took up more
than half her face, she was making up stories long
before she learned to write. She invented a little girl
called Trimmer with whom she shared imaginary
adventures. Trimmer had a brother called Adrien di
Caesar who, detaching himself from the homely scene,
became a figure of high romance living on the slopes
of Mt. Vesuvius.
A little later, Sheila was buying penny notebooks
and writing down in them the names and chapter
headings of her “novels.” The novels themselves she
used to compose and declaim aloud standing in a
field or some other private place. Forty-two such
skeletons survive. In her last years at school she was
writing novels at the rate of six a year with great
gusto, all strongly influenced by Edna Lyall. She
had already that strong predilection for heroes over
heroines that she retained far into her career. She
knew no man except her father, so her imagination was
delightfully free.
At 19 she had left school and been presented to
society at the local hunt club ball, absentmindedly
dancing through the evening in her goloshes. Her
first published novel was The Tramping Methodist,
intended only for presentation to her mother in manu-
script. But when it was finished she recognised it
as somehow different from its predecessors and sent
it to the Society of Authors for criticism. To raise
the fee of a guinea out of an income of a shilling
a week was a herculean labor, but she did it and got
far more than her money’s worth in help and advice.
The society advised publication. Three pounds twelve
for typing caused another crisis, but eventually the
book came out. The reviews were kind and 800
copies were sold. Royalties were to have begun with
the sale of the first 1000.
Starbrace, the tragic romance of a young high-
wayman, followed quickly, and was not quite as suc-
cessful. Her agent advised her to see more life. Her
mother accordingly arranged for her to join an ultra-
respectable women’s club in London. She stayed
there for a fortnight, very miserable, speaking to no
one ; then she returned home, glad to escape from
life. In Hastings she appeared as a very dashing
young person. The old ladies of the parish thought
it very daring and unfeminine of her to write so
freely about men, and she quickly got the reputation,
quite groundlessly, of being a suffragette. When the
house of the borough member, opposite her home,
was burned down she was suspected. Several firemen
even declared that they had seen her at her window
laughing at them and shouting “Votes for women!”
Her father had some difficulty in extricating her from
a charge of arson.
Three more novels followed Starbrace with
moderate success, but with none of them did she earn
more than sixty pounds. Nor did «he get on very fast
with her study of life. She was generally hard up
and took to making her own clothes. Her cutting-
out methods were primitive. She spread the material
on the floor, lay on it, and cut out the dress “to
fit” with a pair of nail-scissors. Shortly before the
war she met W. L. George, a Frenchman who wrote
English novels, and he had great influence on her
work. He suggested the theme of Sussex Gorse, her
first really successful book, and criticised it helpfully
at every point.
Then came the war, war work, a creditable
absence from war fever, a novel of escape called
Challenge to Sirius', then Tamarisk Town and in
1917 a war novel, Little England. “I calculate,” she
writes, “that it takes four years for an outside event
(Continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING" —in
all sincerity.
'THE SENIOR STORE”
A
[U
Ln
©
Inn
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
GENUINE
AUTUMN
ĸ
AOSMOI HVO -/01/ZJ
mm
m iiii
iiii
91
m
m
Finished a medium oak colour.
Interior fittings include four slid-
ing trays on right hand side and
two shelves*— balance, hanging
space. Trouser rail and mirror
behind door.
I
1
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £7/10/
SALE PRICE £4/19/6
Deposit 10/-. 6 Monthly Payments of 15/9.
b*s
swf?
IL
Sj
m
»
c<
m
:'M \
y.'r~ x.
rs«
©
!*
£ll/10'- 3 PIECE LOUNGE SUITE
Consisting of a Settee and two Chairs, upholstered
in selected tapestry and finished a nut brown colour.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £ll/10/
SALE PRICE - £6/19/6
Deposit 14/-. 6 Monthly Payments of £l/1/5.
/
/
i
m-
ms
m
m
m
m
£5 Drop Side CHILD'S COT
The "Kitty” Drop Side Wood Cot is the
safest made. The two • sides have special
depth to give. extra safety for small chil-
dren. It is' constructed of Pacific Oak and
Wax Maple, with close woven 2-ply rust-
less wire mattress, and oxidized drop side
/
fittings. Sizes, ft. ins
Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices
SALE PRICES
4.0x2.0
£5/-/-
£4/10/-
4.6x2.6
£5/5/-
£4/15/-
15W6 Spring Filled Mattress
The "Hordernian" Spring-filled Mattress is made
for extra comfort and better sleep. Manufactured
in our own Bedding Factory, the double bed size
has 408 springs in separate pockets, covered with
hair and soft fleecy felt, and encased in best Belgian
k
Ticking.
Sizes, ft. ins 2.6
Regular Prices £5/19/6
SALE PRICES £5/13/6
3.0
£6/17/6
£6/10/6
3.6
£7/17/6
£7/10/-
4.0
£B/15/-
£B/6/6
4.6
£9/5/-
£B/14/6
• Furniture—Third and Fourth Floors. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
'Phone M2401; Day or Night. Postal Address; Box 2712C G.P.D


Treasure Trove
A
RUM
GO
FOR forty years Peter Holzkopf had worked
desperately hard, spurred onward by an intense
desire to accumulate enough money to enable
him to sit back and take it easy. He had pearled,
beche-de-mer’d, blackbirded, mined and at various
times felt from the satisfying bulge of his money-belt
that his ambition was about to be realised. But knock-
ing about in his adopted country Peter had acquired a
taste for rum, supplementing his inherent German
liking for beer. And rum so stimulated his normally
reckless disposition that the wildest of wild-cat ventures
beckoned with irresistible force to the crinkling, im-
patient bills around his middle. Consequently his ac-
quired capital invariably melted away as butter in
the Cairns sun.
In his sixties, however, one of his smaller invest-
ments unexpectedly romped home, and Peter broke
for Dugong Island —earmarked long ago as a sanctuary
—one hop, step and jump ahead of booze, card-
sharpers and confidence men. Here he acquired a
fishtrap for the purpose of providing a modicum of
work to give zest to his enjoyment of leisure. He
picked a shady tree, and settled down with telescope,
a pipe and a thirst, expecting perfect bliss to come
and stay.
But forty years’ a-rolling had made the stone too
rounded to fit into a narrow groove. Before long
Peter tired of inaction, and to drown the misery of his
happy, carefree existence he would hit the rum with
a will, until, in due course, the very real misery
following overindulgence in alcohol brought remorse
and a fresh appreciation of his life on Dugong Island.
"■p O Bill Flowers, who ran the adjoining fishtrap,
1 these rum cures for the blues were the source of
much trouble. When pink lizards and vermilion ser-
pents flocked to Peter’s cottage it became his job to
shoo them away. As he complained to Tubby Morton
one day on the town wharf: “Peter gets all the fun
out of the booze. I’m the mug standing by for the
jim-jams, chicken broth in one fist, pink drinks in the
other.”
Tubby arranged his broad face to register sym-
pathy. “Can’t you stop him getting the stuff? Tie
him up or something, dope him.”
Bill snorted. “Tie up a tiger-cat! And dope—
the old man would chase me with a gun when he
came to! ”
With weighty deliberation Tubby hauled in his
line, shrugged philosophically when he saw the hook
had been bare of bait, and came over to inspect the
other’s well-filled basket.
Tubby had the name of being smart. He used to
follow the profession of relief-work before that cut
out in Queensland. Then he concentrated on the draw-
ing of rations, eked out by a bit of somnolent wharf
fishing and frequent collections of largesse from ac-
quaintances, or rather tribute, for Tubby, as he said,
gave quid pro quo always—even if it was only good
advice or a cheery word.
“Old man fretting for a booze-up now?” he
asked, fishing at the same time a five-pound salmon
from Bill’s basket and weighing it speculatively in
one hand.
“Looks like it,” said Bill. “This morning he
started pacing the verandah like a stiff-legged old
dingo in a cage. ‘Vine mornings!’ he said when I
spoke to him. ‘Oont vot can you mit von vine morn-
By Freeman Sandom
ILLUSTRATED BY SUCH.
ings do? Eat him? Trink him? Noddings! In dis
verdamber blace noddings is vot ve all der dime do.
Oont ve say vine mornings mit von anodder like der
Sunday-school teacher —ya! ’ ”
“Bad sign!” said Tubby, still weighing the
salmon lovingly. “One of me customers asked for a
fish like this just the other day,” he murmured, “and
I sez, ‘Fishing ain’t what it used to be, brother. A
man wears the seats of his pants out waiting for a
bite.’ ”
He scratched his head reflectively and murmured
softly, “A quid pro quo, now.” Then briskly: “Look
here, Bill, I think I can think up a scheme to keep old
man Peter off the booze.”
“If you can,” said Bill, understanding perfectly,
“you can keep the salmon. And a couple more if
your scheme works.”
“Right,” said Tubby, stowing the fish into his
bag. “The thing is simple enough. The old feller’s
pining for something to do, ain’t he? Well, give him
action! He used to do pearling and prospecting?
Right! Treasure-hunting’s in his blood. Set him
digging for it, sweat out the rum craving. Spanish
treasure ships are strewn all over the Barrier Reef.
Why not on Dugong Island? He won’t be the first
old codger who’s dug his guts out on the strength of
an old map! Come up to Lehfelt’s pub and I’ll make
you one in a jiffy.”
T* HE following day Bill and Peter were proceeding
* towards the traps, intending to fish them, when
the first-mentioned stubbed his bare toe against a
bottle partly buried in the sand and swore. Picking
it up to hurl it away he whistled in surprise.
“Corked and sealed!” he ejaculated. He held it
up to the sun. “Something’s in it. Bit of paper, I
think.”
“Pit vrom viddleschticks! ” said Peter impatiently.
“Shuck it oont goom to der draps!”
“Wait a minute,” objected Bill. “Might be a
message from someone in trouble.”
He produced a pocketknife-corkscrew com-
bination, which a happy after-thought had made him
pocket before leaving, and presently held in his hand
a sheet of paper, yellowed as with age. Something was
written on it, easily deciphered, though the message
was an awkward scrawl, and the ink was faded and
had run in places. Bill worked his way through the
writing and whistled.
“Peter,” he said, “listen to this!
“ ‘This map marks the spot where a wreck is buried
in the sand. Mebbe she got yellow stuff in her in-
nards being a Spaniard which she looks like. The
bloke who finds this is welcome to the stuff cause I
am done for.
“ ‘One-armed Yorkie.’ ”
Peter let out a high-pitched yelp like a terrier on
the tail of a goanna.
“Von-armed Yorkie!” he squeaked. “I haf mit
der Spitzbub’ sailed, peche-de-mer’d mit him dirthy
years ago. As good mans as efer dere vas in der
Nord. Gif me dot baber! ”
Grabbing fiercely, he held it close to his nose, then
snorted impatiently: “Zehntausendteufel, mitout mine
sbegs I gannod read. But I gander mab see, ya!
Der gross oont der drees —oont dot is Shark’s Pay,
Pill—oont Shark’s Pay dot is here!”
Bill shrugged. “Some joker having a bit of fun,
I reckon. Chuck it away and let’s fish the traps be-
fore the tide gets too high.”
“Damn der draps!” shouted Peter. “Dis means
moneys vor me oont you, Pill. I dell you I knew
One-armed Yorkie. He live on dis verdamber island
oont he die here.”
“If there had been gold in the wreck —if there is
a wreck —Yorkie would have got it out himself,
wouldn’t he?”
“One-armed Yorkie could nod get id. He vos
done vor, so! ”
“All right,” Bill capitulated. “We’ll go and have
a look-see. But we fish the traps first!”
TWO hours later it became clear to Bill that this
1 was not his old partner’s first experience in digging
a beach for buried treasure. He had pat the complete
technique: the systematic mapping of lines for
trenches, the excavating of these, and the use of the
long, thin sounding rods which searched to the maxi-
mum of depth with the minimum of work. Peter
tackled the job with the greatest enthusiasm. He be-
came young again as he measured and marked and
wielded the shovel and rod, and sweated and puffed
in the hot sun. He swore fluently in pure German
and impure English at Bill’s want of enthuisasm and
his “verdamber Government schtroke.”
The discovery of a cedar log encrusted with dead
oysters in the second trench, two fathoms below the
surface, goaded him to still more furious efforts. It
proved that great quantities of sand had been heaped
up, enough to bury the wrecks of a whole armada.
And Bill realised that he had let himself in for more
than he had anticipated, being no more fond of hard
work in the blazing sun than most. He worked a go-
slow policy as much as he could when Peter was not
looking, stopped often to wipe the sweat from his
face and neck, to roll a cigarette and to stretch his
aching back.
Resting thus he heard footsteps over the sand and
swung around. A big man in shorts and a battered
straw hat had emerged from the mangrove scrub at


the head of the beach and came towards him. The
man took up a position, straddle-legged, at the edge
of the trench.
“Gardenin’, Bill?” He spoke round the stem of a
short, black pipe. There was a sardonic glint in the
slit of grey eyes under heavy brows.
A swift glance showed Bill that Peter was at the
other end of the trench well out of hearing. “Look
here, Charlie,” he said, “you’ll think I’m dotty, but
this is just a stunt to keep the old man off the booze.”
He explained Tubby’s scheme.
Charlie listened in stolid silence. At the close of
the recital he blew smoke to the sky. “Not so bad,
Bill Flowers! Not -so bad at all.”
“You don’t believe me?” Bill was genuinely sur-
prised.
“Like hell, I do! Only three of us on this here
island and you play to do me out of a good thing.”
Bill knew Charlie Thompson. He shrugged re-
signedly. “All right, then. Come in with us if you
must. Only don’t blame me when it turns out a
frost.”
There was a shout from the other end of the
trench. Peter came stumping along at his fastest pace
to deal with the intruder.
“Hello, Pete!” Charlie greeted him. “I’ve come
to give you a hand.”
Peter glared. Then turned to Bill. “All der dime
schnooping about,” he complained bitterly. “Der pig
gorilla can nefer schtop in his dree.” He swung on
Charlie. “Ged oud!” he shouted, “or I pust you
von pig schmack in der nose.”
Charlie laughed and eyed the dried-up old-timer
contemptuously.
Bill smiled. “Take it easy, Peter,” he soothed.
“Charlie’s a good man with the shovel, and there’s
plenty of digging before us. Plenty of treasure for
three, also —if we find it.”
After much talk up and down and roundabout,
Peter was made to see the advantage of having a third
shoveller. Then he brought up the question of the
sharing of the spoils. He offered Charlie a fifth.
“A third or nothing! ” said Charlie firmly.
“Noddings is right,” piped up Peter in another
rage; “you schpeak der drue ding vor von dime,
Sharlie!”
On this theme the bickering was played at length
until Bill became fed up.
“Look here,” he said, “Charlie can have my share.
I’m going home.”
The announcement brought consternation to
Peter.
“Oont nod to dig?” he piped indignantly. “You
schtop in der shade oont ve must in der sun schweat! ”
For once Charlie agreed with the old man.
He eyed the wide expanse of hot sand which
it might be necessary to explore with shovel
and rod. “Come on, Bill,” he said per-
suasively. “Don’t be a shirker!”
“I’m not shirking. I’m giving you my
share. And I’m leaving you two to it. That’s
fair enough, isn’t it?”
“Rot!” said Charlie. “We couldn’t do
you out of your share. There’s plenty for
all.” He turned to Peter fiercely, “Ain’t it,
old feller?”
Peter hesitated, then gave in, nodding
sulkily.
Bill was defeated. “All right, all right,”
he said, “I’m in again.”
WORK began once more, Charlie fresh and
strong of arm, Peter trying hard to keep
his pace, and Bill making a fair show, con-
sidering he knew what he knew. After an
hour’s hectic work he began to wonder if he
could develop a crick in the back as an excuse
to retire from the whole affair. He rolled
and smoked cigarettes continually, and it was
during such an interval that he saw the fish-
ing lugger.
It had cleared the southern horn of the
bay and was setting a course due north,
apparently making for the Great Barrier
Reef. Bill welcomed the chance of diversion.
“Jimmy Samuels, I reckon,” he said, point-
ing seawards, knowing it was not Jimmy
Samuels.
Simultaneously the two others shaded
eyes with hands and stared in the direction
indicated. Presently Peter turned and snorted
contemptuously:
“Shimmy Samuels —noddings. Dot’s Sharlie
Sailor.”
“Sure it’s Charlie Sailor,” agreed Charlie. “What’s
wrong with your eyes, Bill?”
“I don’t think” began Bill.
“Ged on mit der digging!” shouted Peter.
His scheme blocked, Bill prepared to resume
work, but instead gave a shout of surprise and pointed.
The lugger had swung round and was heading straight
for the beach.
“Zehntausendteufel! ” Peter threw down his
shovel and kicked it savagely. “More mens to share
der dreasure!”
“Four of them!” said Charlie.
“Seven to dig!” said Bill. The other glared at
him.
In stony silence they watched the lugger come to
a standstill as the throb of the engine ceased. The
anchor went overboard, a dinghy was launched, and
men tumbled into it and rowed towards shore.
“Four of ’em all right,” growled Charlie, his big
hands clenching and unclenching.
“Four big men,” said Bill suggestively.
“Vour robber mens,” contributed Peter, picking
up his shovel, holding it like a club, and looking very
fierce.
Bill saw that trouble was brewing and determined
to try to head it off.
“I’ll go to meet ’em,” he said. “Maybe I can
spin ’em a yarn that’ll make ’em go away.”
The dinghy had grounded high on the beach on
the back of a creaming roller ; the four men sprang
out and dragged it clear of the backwash. Bill knew
them all. Charlie Sailor, half-caste Murray Islander,
powerfully built, not very tall but with an enormous
breadth of shoulders and deep chest. Two of the
others were big men, Irish, twins, a& like as two peas.
The third was Scratcher Cardwell. He was slightly
built, stringy, a boxer of considerable reputation.
The knowledge gave Bill a lot of satisfaction. When
one of two opposing forces is numerically superior, in
addition to being devastatingly superior in strength, the
weaker side is unlikely to initiate trouble.
“Bound for the Reef, Sailor?” asked Bill after
the proper greetings had been exchanged.
“Yeah.” Sailor was a man of few words. He
smiled pleasantly, rolled a cigarette, lit it. Bill waited.
Sailor smoked. His crew smoked. The silence im-
plied a request for an explanation, and Bill knew it.
“Look here, Sailor,” he said at last, “I suppose
you wonder what we’re up to. Well, it’s just a bit of
a joke.”
Sailor blew smoke through his nose. “Yeah?” he
asked politely.
“Yes. It’s like this, Sailor” He explained
Tubby Morton’s scheme.
At the end of the recital Sailor nodded. “And
Charlie Thompson?”
Bill swore. “A fool. He won’t believe it’s all a
joke.”
“I see. Peter digs. Charlie digs. You dig. Why
you dig?”
Bill threw in the towel. “All right,” he said, “I
see I can’t put anything over you, Sailor. Come and
dig, too, and bring your crew.”
They trooped along to the end of the trench,
where Peter and Charlie greeted the newcomers
Chanting in his squeaky, quavering, old-man’s
voice to a tune of his own.
surlily without stopping their work. Bill said nothing,
took his shovel and used it. He was satisfied to let
things take their course.
Sailor and his crew squatted in the sand, smoked
and watched in silence. They were used to passing
whole nights fishing, line in hand, with perhaps only
half a dozen words being exchanged, and had small
need for speech now. They had also unlimited
patience.
Ten minutes of this and Charlie threw down his
shovel with an oath. “I reckon you fellers want your
share of what we find, so you better set to work
earnin’ it.”
“We’ll work,” said Sailor promptly, and his crew
nodded agreement. *
“Ve bay you goot,” said Peter, making a desperate
play for the lion’s share, “ven ve find der dreasure.”
“Oh, shut up, Peter!” Charlie was disgusted.
“Can’t you see how the land lies? It’s work and share
alike.”
Eli OR a couple of hours work went on, the seven
1 taking turn and turn about with the shovels.
Trench after trench was opened and the bottom
sounded with the rod. Another cedar log was un-
earthed. They found a length of dressed oak plank-
ing which could have belonged to a steamer, part of
the railing perhaps of some ill-fated vessel wrecked
on the Barrier many years ago. Also three square
bottles, gin bottles without a doubt —empty. But they
had found nothing else and the sun was low in the
western sky. Bill dropped his shovel and climbed out
of the trench.
“I’m going home to cook supper for the lot of
you,” he announced. “I’ll expect you about dark.”
Bill’s conscience had been pricking him a little.
Six men were toiling in the sun, digging for treasure
which existed only in his imagination, or rather in
Tubby Morton’s imagination. To a certain extent he
was responsible. The least he could do was to cook
them a slap-up, ding-dong supper. He rowed out to
the trap and took the choicest fish in the live-box, a
twelve-pound barramundi. He got fresh eggs from the
fowl-run, a couple of head of cabbage, lettuce and
tomatoes from the garden, also pawpaws and custard
apples. With half a ham, fresh butter, bread and
cheese it was a meal not to be sneezed at.
Bill contemplated the bulging table with the satis-
faction of an artist who knows he has accomplished a
good piece of work, then lit his pipe and sat down on
the verandah to await the treasure-hunters. Dusk was
falling ; soon it would be too dark to shovel, but Bill
knew the gold-lust would keep them busy right up to
the last possible moment.
He woke with a start at the wailing cry of a
curlew. He thought he must have dozed for half an
hour or so because it was now quite dark. From his
chair he could see the radium-painted dial of. the alarm
clock in the kitchen: it showed eight twenty-three.
He had slept for an hour and a half. What the devil
had happened to the diggers? He rose and gazed to-
wards Shark’s Bay hidden from view by a clump of
mangroves. He fancied he saw the faint reflection of
a fire above the treetops.
Bill went to investigate. The night was
pitch black and he picked his way carefully
over the narrow track through the mangrove
swamp. Suddenly he was aware of a strange
note among the medley of familiar sounds
of the swamp. For a moment he was unable
to place it. It was a far-away, high-pitched,
reedy note, punctuated by a rhythmic boom-
boom, as if coming from an aboriginal log-
drum, only that it possessed a metallic quality.
As he went he apparently came closer to
where the noise originated, for it became
steadily louder, and presently he recognised
it. It was an Irish jig, or at least it was
meant to represent an Irish jig. Bill had heard
the tune before. It was an old favorite of
Charlie Thompson’s. In the exuberance of
spirits when the fish were coming into the
traps thickly after heavy rain or rough
weather at the Reef, Charlie was wont to
whistle it, morning, noon and night. Bill
made a bet with himself, right hand against
left, that Charlie was the musician now.
When he arrived at the edge of the swamp
he found that his right had won.
But he saw a different Charlie from the
earnest treasure-seeker of a few hours ago.
A Charlie who had for the moment dropped
the cares of the gold-hunter and had constituted
himself a one-man band. He was sprawling
on his back in the sand within the light from
a briskly burning campfire, and was wresting
the jig out of a leaf which he held to his
mouth between cupped hands, the while he
accompanied himself by vigorously kicking a
kerosene-tin swung from a forked stick.
. .
The scene acted before Bijil might have been from
a musical comedy. While Charlie took the part of the
orchestra, Sailor and his crew constituted the chorus —
f° ur gentlemen of the chorus, clearly in a state of
considerable inebriation, treading the light fantastic
with the immense gravity of the immensely drunk.
But old Peter Holzkopf was occupying the centre
of the stage. He sat straddle-legged on a cask, one
hand holding a pannikin with which he weaved intn-
cate patterns in the sky. The other was pressed firmly
against the cask, apparently to ensure extra stability,
* n tke manner of a sitting kangaroo using its tail as
( Continued on page 7.)


A Dyed-in-the-wool Scoundrel
OUT OF THE PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY .
THE MYSTERY OF
SURGEON BASS.
IN July of the year 1817 the whaling vessel Pride
of Boston came into Port Jackson full of oil and
villains. Hardly a member of her crew, from
Captain Ebenezer Holyoake to Long Island Sam,
the cook, could possibly be libelled by being termed
a villain, but if there was any dyed-in-the-wool scoun-
drel aboard it was the mate, Thomas Peabody, a
Lincolnshire man and as great a rogue as ever landed
in Sydney Cove.
A bluff, hearty mariner, blunt, forthright, honest
as the day—that was the impression Mr. Peabody
liked to make upon people whom he encountered in
the course of his nefarious career up and down the
waters of the earth, and that was the impression he
always did make in the beginning. At the end of
their contact and dealings with him, many men had
had good and abundant reason to regard him as the
wiliest, wickedest and most unforgivable scoundrel
whom the Creator had ever disguised as an honest
man.
Right breezily and cheerfully Tom Peabody came
ashore in Sydney the day after the Pride of Boston’s
arrival in the Cove to take a look round Sydney Town,
a place which he regarded with peculiar interest since
the time when, about the beginning of the century, he
had been on the verge of coming there himself over
a trifle of evildoing perpetrated in London. To his
amazed astonishment, the Old Bailey jury had
acquitted him, and the Judge had shared that aston-
ishment, and had conveyed as much to Mr. Peabody
by sarcastically congratulating him and the jury when
he gave him his discharge.
“You are, Peabody, and you, too, gentlemen,
individually and collectively, the luckiest men unhung.
You are fortunate in having been born without con-
sciences. Prisoner, you are discharged. Some day,
perhaps, you will have better luck, though I cannot
imagine how.”
It was dusk when the mate of the Pride of Boston
set foot on shore in Sydney, and, being a sailorman,
his first investigation was of the quality of the licensed
houses adjacent to the waterside. There were many
taverns in Sydney in T7 —fifty-two of them to a popu-
lation of about 7000 —so Mr. Peabody had not far
to go to provide himself with spirituous welcome to
the Territory. The Jolly Sailor, as was fitting, was
his first house of call, the well-known and long-
established rummery at the lower end of George-street
kept by Mr. Isaac Nichols, who was quite one of
Sydney’s leading citizens, and had had his license
since 1798. The Cherry Tree, the Cat and Fiddle,
the Speed the Plough and the Pine Apple all
had a share of Mr. Peabody’s patronage, and it was
nearly nine o’clock before, mellow and convivial, he
arrived at Timothy Naylan’s Spotted Dog, a quiet
hostelry nearly opposite the main gate of the military
barracks in George-street.
Here he was welcomed by host Naylan, a red-
headed Irishman with a fringe of auburn beard below
his chin. There were two or three people in the tap-
room, who did not appeal to Mr. Peabody’s some-
what fastidious taste, so he asked the landlord whether
he hadn’t another room where a tired man might
take his ease.
“Guess thishyer walkin’ about ashore don’ agree
too well with one as is used to shipboard life” —Mr.
Peabody’s English had been a little Americanised
during the years he had spent in New England whal-
ing ships. “Ain’t ye got some goddam place whar a
man can set an’ think of his sins, Mister Ginger?”
“Begorra, thin, I have,” responded Timothy geni-
ally, by no means put out by the stranger’s familiarity.
“Will ye not come into me back room, sorr? There’s
on’y a coupla officer gintlemin in there, an’ they’ll
be glad to know ye, so they will. Two o’ th’ best, sorr.
Ye’ll find ’em hearty comp’ny.” He ushered the sea-
man into that back room which had become the
favorite rendezvous of that engaging trio Messrs.
Calder, Wilks and Pilkington during their hours of
leisure.
"THE two first-named were seated at a round table
* discussing a pint of rum by the light of a tallow
candle stuck in a bottle. Ensign Calder hailed Mr.
Naylan. “Well, Tim, who’s your friend? I thought
you kept this room for us?”
“Faith, thin, sorr, so I do. But I was thinkin’
ye might like to have a crack wi’ this gintleman, who’s
off th’ whale ship just in from th’ fisheries. Good
company he is, I’ll be bound, an’ll be able to tell ye
what’s a-doin’ in the Sou’ Seas. I’ll bring ye a chair,
sorr,” said Tim. “This is Ensign Calder, o’ th’ Forty-
sixt’, and this Lootinant Wicks, o’ th’ Ryle Navee.
Make y’silf at home, thin. They’ll be glad o’ y’r
comp’ny, sorr.”
“Pleased to meet ye, gents,” said Mr. Peabody,
grasping in turn the right hand of each of the young
officers, which he wrung with evident heartiness. “An-
other bottle, landlord. Gents, I hope ye’ll join me.
I’m all alone and lonely, and this is my first acquaint-
ance with Sydney Town. I think your harbor’s lovely.
Knocks Rio into a mud puddle, gents —a goddam
mud puddle! ”
“You have said what is expected of you, sir,”
laughed Mr. Wicks. “Our Beautiful Harbor is all
we have —though there’s rum in the bottle and baccy
in the jar, and maybe a wench or two to pleasure
an honest man. You’ve not been here before, sir,
then?”
“Nary a visit, young sir. And Sydney’s always
been my desire for to see because of my old friend
Surgeon George Bass. Almost my fellow-townsman,
that one. Him an’ Cap’n Flinders, th’ navigator.”
Mr. Wicks swung round in his chair at the men-
tion of these names, and gazed wonderingly at the
man of the Pride of Boston.
“Right you are, sirree. Agreed and unnerstood. We’ll save George Bass By hell, we will I"
“You know Dr. Bass, sir?”
“As if we was brothers, sir. And ’tis only in
the last year or two I’ve almost been in touch with
him. In South Ameriky, sir. That’s whar my old
friend is now. Surgeon George Bass, of his Britannic
Majesty’s Ryle Na-vee. These damn’ dagoes, sir—
they’s got him by th’ heels, as they’ve had him this
many a year.”
“Bass —Bass? Who is this George Bass?” asked
Mr. Calder curiously. Mr. Wicks gave his friend a
glance of contempt. Mr. Peabody made it a grunt.
“George Bass, sir, comes from my part of the
world —from Lincolnshire, sir. One of the great
navigators, either re-garded with or without his friend
Matthew Flinders. And now these Gawdless Span-
ishes have him working in the mines, in Peru, or
Chili, or some such wheres. It makes a man sick to
think of it. Hellishly sick, sir. If I was King George
of England, or President of the United States of
Ameriky, I’d say to them there dagoes, ‘Look here,
you let that man go—elst there’ll be trouble, and I’m
a-tellin’ ye! ’ ”
“Well, what do you know of him, Gregory?”
Mr. Calder asked his friend, as though a little sus-
picious of a stranger’s introduction to Dr. Bass.
“Everybody in our service knows about him,”
said Mr. Wicks. “But soldiers —they know nothing.
He and Flinders found that New Holland and Van
Diemen’s Land were separate, for one thing, and the
strait is named after him. And he discovered Western
Port, down near Port Phillip. And soon after that
he disappeared.”
“Disappeared?”
“He went home in 1799 and got married, and
bought a brig, the Venus, to go a-trading in the South
Seas. She got here in the middle of the following
year, and was chartered by Government to fetch a
cargo of pork from Otaheiti. He went a couple
more voyages of the same sort, but found it all a
bit humdrum, so made a proposal to Governor King
that he should buy a Government vessel then lying
wrecked on one of the Otaheitan islands, and be given
a lease of the southern coastline of New Zealand for
the establishment there of whaling and sealing stations.
He intended, after salving the wrecked brig, to run
across to the coast of Peru for a cargo of guano.
The Venus sailed from Sydney at the beginning of
1803, and that was the last that was ever heard of
Dr. Bass.”
“Sir,” said Mr. Peabody, “I’ll correct ye there.
He’s been heard of since. Indeed, I know a man who’s
seen him and spoken with him.”
“You don’t mean to say so!”
“Yep, sirree, I do. George Bass is alive and well,
and the man who’s seen him is a member of the crew
of the Pride o’ Boston, of which stinkin’ ole hooker
I happen to be chief officer. Like me, thishyer fellie’s
a friend o’ Surgeon Bass, an’ was one o’ th’ hands
o’ th’ Venus when them dagoes took her an’ con-
demned her for a-carryin’ contrabandista, an’ sent
George Bass and his men to work in their goddam
silver-mines. He’s got a idea, and I’ve got a idea, that
something wants to be done about it —right here in
Sydney Town, whar Dr. Bass was well an’ fav’rably
known, an’ th’ scheme’d have a chance o’ becomin
a practical workin’ success. Ye take my meanin’?
Nothing less, it is, than raisin’ funds for to charter, or
buy, a vessel, an’ to go and rescue th’ Doctor out
o’ the clutches o’ them goddam dagoes.
“How d’ye think a plan like that would be taken
on in Sydney Town, lootenant?” he asked Mr. Wicks,
who immediately became all interest and enthusiasm.
“By Heavens, sir,” he said, “I believe ’twould
be most acceptable in this place. Surgeon Bass hasn t
been forgotten in Sydney. I think I could get together
at least half a dozen people of substance who’d be
only too willing to assist in such an enterprise. Could
you bring your man here to meet them, Mister
Mate?”
“I’ll be honored to do so, whenever you like,
Lootenant. To raise a fund, you mean? That’s the
notion, is it?”
“Yes, by George! I’d put in a month s pay
myself,” cried Mr. Wicks delightedly. “I’m sure
something practical could be done. Of course, I
never had the honor of knowing Dr. Bass personally
—but I know all about his great work on these coasts
and its real value. I’d do all I could to assist m his
rescue. When d’ye think you could bring your man


rear support. In his squeaky, quavering, old-man
voice he was chanting some German ditty to a tune
of his own, sublimely indifferent to the orchestra’s
efforts.
Catching sight of Bill, Peter whooped a cordial
greeting and waved invitation to step up to the cask.
“Gome on, Pill, mein altes Spitzbub’,” he bawled ;
“gome oont haf von men’s trink wit goot mens oont
drue. Haf ve nod von gask mit rum updigged—der
bestest dreasure in der vorrld! Oonter dree vaddoms
mit sand, mein poy, ve haf Shamaica gefunden
Shamaica, goot oont schweet oont schtrong like hell.
Vill üb! Trink üb! Prosit!”
It was a wonderful Jamaica, velvet to the tongue
and potent. It ought to be, Bill reflected, having
matured for twenty years at least in the spot where
the treasure-hunters had found it. Had it been washed
ashore from a wrecked vessel of long ago? Bill
wondered as he took his second drink, and then, feel-
ing the powerful stuff rise to his head, he sneaked
away. One man had to remain sober.
For a week or two —as long as the rum lasted —
there would be three fishtraps to look after, besides
old man Peter, who would be a handful in himself.
So Bill went home and did what justice he could to
a slap-up supper prepared for seven.
HE came across Tubby Morton, anchored as usual
on the town wharf, the following morning.
“Your scheme was a great success, Tubby,” he
replied to a query. “Help yourself to the fish you
want —no, not out of that basket—those over there —
it’s Charlie’s and Peter’s lot —they’re shouting.”
“So my scheme was a success, eh?” said Tubby
contentedly. “I thought it would be. Use a bit of
brains and you can lead a man exactly where you
want him. See how easy it was in old-man Holz-
kopf’s case! Life, Bill, is a rum go, all right.’
“You said it!” said Bill.
to a meeting here so that he could
acquaint us with what he knows
of the Doctor’s present situation?”
“This is Thursday, sir. What
about Saturday night—the day
after to-morrow? We could come
to this place in the evening, me
and my man —he’s the bos’n of the
Pride o’ Boston, an’ a most reliable
character, I do assure ye, gentle-
men. I could bring him here on
Saturday night.”
“Good!” cried Mr. Wicks.
“I’ll canvass some people of in-
fluence whom I know in the town,
and I’m sure I can get together a
company of well-to-do persons
who’ll be interested in hearing of
Surgeon Bass, Mr. —by the way
what is your name? You have the
advantage of us, sir.”
“Tom Peabody, Lootenant.
Chief officer o’ the whaler Pride
o’ Boston, at y’r sarvice. An’ at
the sarvice o’ that great man and old friend Dr.
George Bass.”
“Well, then, Mr. Peabody, Saturday night? ’Tis
agreed between us?”
“Right you are, sirree. Agreed and unnerstood.
We’ll save George Bass from them dagoes. By hell,
we will! ”
A PLEASANT evening Messrs. Wicks and Calder
spent in the entertaining company of Mr. Thomas
Peabody, whose fund of reminiscence concerning the
early life of the unfortunate Surgeon Bass, R.N.,
would have astonished the hero of it. It was mid-
night when they took a last drink to the luck of the
Doctor and parted, Messrs. Wicks and Calder to
lurch to the latter’s quarters in the Barracks, and
Mr. Peabody to walk, quite untroubled by Timothy
Naylan’s Bengal rum, to Sydney Cove, from the
shores of which historic inlet a waterman ferried
him to his ship.
“In the morning,” he muttered as he sought his
berth, “I’ll introduce George Bass to the bos’n. A
very good night’s work!”
“CT O you see, Sam,” said Mr. Peabody to the boat-
swain in the following forenoon, as they con-
cluded a lengthy conference on the poop of the
Pride of Boston, “that’s where you met this here
George Bass in South Ameriky. In Callao, when they
was a-takin’ him to Lima to be investigated by the
Viceroy. You can tell these gents this spry naval cock-
chafer’s a-goin’ to get together that a rescue’d be
easy. They don’t know where them mines is. You
can make it a spot down the coast. I think there’ll
be good pickings. I’m a-goin’ for to be the secketary
o’ thishyer combination, and if I can get my hands
on the funds they collect you and me’ll make a rise
in fortoon. See? You takes a third and me two-
thirds, on account o’ me havin’ found the goldmine.”
“No,” said the boatswain gently, eyeing his
superior officer’s features with distrust —“not when
me name’s McNab, Mr. Peabody. I’m a Scotchman.
It’s halves or”
“Or what?”
“The scheme don’t work —see? This Lootenant
Wicks gets put wise. Halves —see!”
“Oh, damn you, then, Sam McNab —halves. We
won’t quarrel about it. That’ll be all right.”
“Well, take care it is, sir. This Gov’nor Mac-
quarie’s a countryman o’ mine. He’ll see as I get
justice. No funny work, mind. A fair an’ square
halves.”
“All right, Sam. You tell y’r tale well on Satur-
day night, and we’ll be right. I’ll play fair with ye,
have no fear o’ that.”
YY N the last evening of the week the frowsy back
room of the Spotted Dog contained much
more important inhabitants of Sydney than it had ever
contained before —representatives and leaders in the
shipping and mercantile world of Australia’s capital
gathered together by the enthusiastic Gregory Wicks.
Several of them were “free by servitude,” but were
nonetheless men of weight and standing in a com-
munity so strongly imbued with the pioneer spirit as
not to be overcrifical as to the earlier careers of its
outstanding personalities.
Mr. Simeon Lord was there, Mr. Underwood and
his partner Mr. Kable, Mr. Isaac Nichols, Mr. John
Macarthur, newly-arrived home after the long exile
the Bligh rebellion cost him, Mr. Robert Campbell, a
representative of Mrs. Mary Reibey, far too respect-
able herself for the Spotted Dog, Mr. Pilkington,
of the Commissariat, and half a dozen others who
in all their diversity had been friends and admirers of
the young naval surgeon whose feats of exploration
no less than his fascinating personality had endeared
him to all who had ever come across him during his
career in New South Wales. Messrs. Calder and
Wicks, of course, were also present, and Mr. Thomas
Peabody had brought with him the boatswain of the
Pride of Boston, well advertised to all the others by
Mr. Wicks as the last man to meet Dr. George Bass.
Mr. Thomas Peabody, chief officer of the Ameri-
can whaler, having been formally introduced to the
gathering by Mr. Wicks, proceeded in turn to intro-
He stood there —a tall, thin, white-goateed gentleman with a fiery eye and an alcoholic breath.
duce to the gentlemen present that redoubtable per-
sonage Mr. Samuel McNab. But before doing so
he had a whispered word or two with the boatswain.
“The old man?” he inquired anxiously. “What’s
he a-doin’ of?”
• “Drinkin’,” replied Sam McNab below his breath.
“Hard?”
“Pumpin’ it in.”
“Hope to God he don’t turn up, then. All right,
Sam, stand by to do y’r stuff. It all depends on you.”
“Gentlemen” —he rose to his feet and addressed
the assemblage. “Guess Lootenant Wicks has told
ye what thishyer meetin’s about, so I won’t beat about
th’ bush, an’ will call on Bos’n McNab to tell you
of the lamentable situation of our friend and country-
man Doctor George Bass, whom he has seen as lately
as last year in Callao, Peru. Ye can trust Samuel
McNab, if never before ye never trusted any man.
He don’t exaggerate, an’ he don’t underrate, and
what he says ye can take for gospel. That’s Sam.
Tell’m, Sam —tell th’ gents all ye know of th’ mystery
o’ Surgeon Bass.”
Then up stood that most remarkable of liars Mr.
Samuel McNab, boatswain of the Pride of Boston. So
intent was the chief officer of that unsavory craft
the effect of Samuel’s tale upon the gathering
that he failed t 0 observe the entry into the room of a
tall> thin? white-goateed gentleman with a fiery eye
and an alcoholic breath that well accounted for it.
jj e s t oo d by the door and glared at his eloquent boat-
SW ain across the heads of that gentleman’s seated
audience.
Despite his name, the boatswain’s Scots was not
go pronounced as it might have been. He told his
tale plainly and well, and ended up, “So that’s how
i me t the Doctor, gentleman—in the plaza at Callao
this time last year, juist afore we come south into
these latitoods. Sorrowful he was, an’ sad, an’ his
last words to me as he shook me hand was, ‘I depend
on ye, Mr. McNab, to do all that’s possible to effect
my rescue. I know you will send help to me.’ That’s
all I can teil ye, gentlemen, of the mystery of Surgeon
Bass. What’s to be done must be left to his friends, of
whom I see so many present the nicht.”
“Liar!” came from the tall person by the door.
“Oh, you b y liar, Sam McNab.”
There was a noise of scraping feet and pushed-
back chairs as all the company turned to look at this
critic. Captain Holyoake stood with lean arms folded
across his chest, glaring at his mate and boatswain.
“A pair of ’em! ” he shouted. “Don’t believe a word
th’ goddam liars ha’ told ye, misters.”
“Sir! A moment,” shouted Mr. Peabody above
the murmur of amused surprise that stirred the gather-
ing. The answer came swiftly.
“Tom Peabody!” roared the Yankee skipper.
“Get back aboard the Pride o’ Boston and take this
goddam liar with ye. Callao a year ago! Suff’rin’
snakes, gents, the Pride’s never been to Callao since
she were launched. Just twelve months ago we were
at the Falklands, and my logbook’ll prove it. Mystery
o’ Surgeon Bass be jiggered. The on’y mystery is
how folks like you can come to listen to sich a rip-
roarin’ pair o’ tale-tellers as Tom Peabody and Sam
McNab. There ain’t neither of ’em has larned to tell
the truth since first he knoo how to talk. Ye can
take it from me. That’s all’s to be said.”
Messrs. Peabody and McNab slipped unosten-
tatiously away. Some of the others remained to drink
with Captain Holyoake.
“Tell me then, Ihir,” asked Mr. Pilkington of that
indignant mariner, “why you found it nethethavty
to give your thyipmateth away tho completely?”
“Why, sirree,” said Captain Holyoake, as though
astonished at the simplicity of such a question, “th’
goddam selfish skunks left me out of it! ”
The Lake.
have put down hands
Hammer and mind’s sickle
To be this lake’s black circle,
For water wants no friend’s
Work Qr child>s hve even
Uncaring cold streams suckle
The cold uncaring circle,
Rains find a bleak haven.
Lake water has no friends
And wants no lovers either.
Chill rushes talk together,
Grassblade to grassblade bends,
The rock grows warm in the sun.
But t^s its eep s P rin 8 s wither
Is past the power of weather,
Of sun or moon or man.
g 0 j have put down mind’s
Sickle and hand’s hammer;
loys Q f spr i ng and summer
And a u t h at cuts or menc Js
Among the grass can rust.
While I am this black dreamer,
Come wind, come wings, come swimmer,
Nothing can break my rest.
N g w
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Have you seen our Special Country Window Display!
“Monarch” Cabinet, fitted
pieces Baker’s best quality
and Silverware
with 50
Knives
£l6/12/0
Camping ,
Knife.
siin. blade,
fi/6 each.
Studlock (Regd.) Sheep Ear
Labels, 15/- per 100.
Large range of Sheep and Cattle Earmarkers in stock.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue, Posted Free.
W. JNO. BAKER
PTY., LTD.,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The Voyager
Manicure Set,
fitted with
clipper, scissor,
file and tweezer,
21/6 complete.
Mml
Baker’s Three-blade Stock Knife,
best Sheffield Steel, 7/6 each.
HI
Trapper’s Skinning Knife, two
blades, 4/6 each.
to reach that part of me which turns life into litera-
ture.”
This was Sheila Kaye-Smith’s peak period.
Came Green Apple Harvest, which she believes to be
her best novel; then Joanna Godden, her best-known
piece. George Moore admired Green Apple Harvest
so much that he begged her to rewrite it with his
assistance. Between them they wrote the first three
paragraphs, and then the scheme was dropped.
After Joanna Godden a change comes over her
work. The End of the House of Alard, which is a
piece of Anglo-Catholic propaganda, is different in
tone and quality from her earlier work. She explains
it herself by saying that somewhere in the thirties
she grew up. All her earlier novels were improved
versions of her childish daydreams. They were
emotional and imaginative, and they came out of her
subconscious rather than out of her mind. When
this artesian basin dried up she was forced to rely on
mind alone.
Her novels to-day are highly competent, but they
lack the fire and tenderness of her youth. This loss
of power was not the grief to her that it would once
have been, for by this time her great interest and
source of inspiration was religion. It is probably
this change of focus that makes it possible for her
to analyse her writing so candidly. Marriage and
conversion to the Catholic Church round out a life
that appears to have been rarely happy.
Much of this narrative is given over to discussing
the author’s spiritual evolution, a subject so intimate
as to be embarrassing to the lay reader. The book
stands a little aside from others of its genre ; it tells
a quiet story with humor and charm, but just
occasionally the reader wonders why it was written
at all.
Last Days of Rome.
In a story of the last days of the Roman Empire,
Night Falls on Rome (Peter Davies), Thomas Ryan,
a young American writer, has taken a large canvas.
He depicts the tragedy of a dying civilisation and,
involved in its ruin, his hero, Togonius, one of the
last men in whom rpoved the old Roman spirit.
Togonius was born in Rome in 1120 a.d. and
grew up a lad of shining promise. All his life he
was a victim of the world into which he was born.
As a boy his ambition was to sail round Africa, still
unknown save for a few Arab tales, and to found
in the Cool Lands that he believed to lie south of the
Hot Lands a new Rome, pagan, republican and
strong.
He found a rich patron to fit out the enterprise,
bought his ship, the Alma Stella, and was on the eve
of sailing when his mother was stricken with plague.
The doors of the house were sealed by public
authority and all within left to die. Togonius nursed
his mother and miraculously escaped infection. He
vowed to her that if she recovered he would give up
his voyage, to which she had been bitterly opposed.
On the seventh day of the illness he believed her to
be dying, and in an agony of grief flung himself
down in front of a crucifix and prayed for the first
time in his life. In his exhaustion he saw the cruci-
fix glow with light. In the same hour his mother
began to recover.
A miracle had happened. News of it spread
abroad. Togonius himself was converted and, to his
mother’s joy, became a monk. The Bishop of Rome
interested himself in his career and promised him
quick advancement in the Church. Togonius went to
an island monastery where the rule was very strict.
For three years he kept it and earned a great reputa-
tion for holiness. One day he fell into temptation,
and in the moment of his black remorse learned that
the abbot whom he had admired was still a pagan and
believed nothing of what he taught. Disillusion
drove him from the monastery. The shock and an
effort that he had made to mutilate himself brought
on periodic fits of unconsciousness which he called
“dust storms.” For years he sat at home a prey to
his mysterious malady.
An old patron, Stilicho, guardian of the young
Emperor Honorius, and regent of the Western Empire,
drew him into public life again. For a time he was
tutor to the Emperor, a weak-minded and pathetic
boy of 16. Togonius was the man of the moment,
feted and sought after by everyone, but his infirmity
was discovered and he was removed from his post.
The world fell away from him again, and Lollia, the
girl he loved, tried to make use of him in an intrigue
against Stilicho.
At this time came the barbarian invasion, over-
whelming all personal considerations. Alaric, the
king of the Goths, marched into Italy. Stilicho de-
feated him at Pollentis, but had no troops to follow
up his advantage. He resorted to buying off the
Goths and spun out the life of Rome for a few more
Cvisil^f"" 8S ! rU \ gled !° bu ,‘ ld . up his ag ?‘"-
1 fte vision of a girl, whom he called Alma Stella after
Jf gan ha “ nt bi f. - He bis faith
t “ 5’ wV° I dls . co y er that tbis wh ° m
’ n 10 / e ’ ™. h,S SlSter Re gIUa ’ W t°
± j ost £ fa ™ l] y “ a since t she
'ZI ? S J e under a dispensation
fu h + imSel / I mv g r lved m a gullt 7
™ * 5? could ” ot .<: ontrol - He became an out '
laW t ln hls oTwn. 0 T wn . famil y- _ _. v
drn J? lgh • ™ aS d ° Slng “°" R °T CltlZ6nS
s a? out t as , a l raitor ’ and then they were
3' S ; a Alanc took Rome twice, looted it and
away * J b * third time he was at the gates
L t be f aye ? tbe £ ty t 0 bim “ nder P™ mise that
w °uld not sack it. His soldiers broke the promise.
R ?™ ™ bu ™ ed and I? gonias ™ among th ®
?f • ™ che A d „ a r y ', Alanc died and was buned
V nver bed ; A 1 the sla Y es ’ amon S them Togomus,
wbo saw tbe burial were slam.
rtf *!l ht Fal ! s °. n Rome f S?* 811 ’ 1 reach the standard
The £nv / e £ onstructl ° n as
l,- B ° y fr T A P“ lla ’Jhe Jew of Rome or Count
F t ? r , °“ e , thmg the author’s republican
„ Httl l^ C tnn C nft biaS him Y to P? mtin . s
lht Yr ft Y r anot I h . er 1S
u- t OI Jf * be P e^ ln S that he is working with a
t ?bJ b ? h °j;Y ° ne han f d a ma T & , of P s y cbolo gy
the other serious faults, though the book as a
wh ° le hangS together and holds interest,
Nenthead to Munich,
Of three new books, Pilgrimage from Nenthead
(Methuen), Who Is for Liberty ? (Michael Joseph) and
Four Days (Heinemann, per Angus and Robertson),
the first is much the most interesting from a literary
point of view, and if its direct political content is less,
its human significance is as great as that of the others.
All three are likely to be fairly widely read, the
Pilgrimage because it is something quite out of the
way in autobiographies, Who Is for Liberty? becausS
it’s written by an up-and-coming Socialist M.P., and
Four Days because the story of the September crisis,
despite more recent adventures in Europe, hasn’t yet
gone down to limbo.
Pilgrimage from Nenthead resembles Florence
White’s Autobiography of a Cook (Dent), which was
recommended on this page last year for the accurate
picture it gave of an ordinary life. Chester Armstrong,
a much less sophisticated character than the cook, is
a 70-year-old miner who is spending his retirement
pottering about his garden and waiting hopefully for
someone to publish his monumental work on “Social
Freedom, or the Terms of a Progressive Order.” He
was born in a remote Northumbrian village, and his
pilgrimage through space and time, which he submits
deliberately as a mirror of the pilgrimage of Everyman,
took him merely as far as the colliery town of Ashing-
ton and through 52 years of monotonous labor.
He notes that he had parents who quarrelled a bit
but got along somehow, that he married and was the
father of one of those astronomical families that
are the dream of Mr. Hughes, that he was happy
and unhappy, and that most of the time he was worried
about money. He concludes, “Whilst there is nothing
in my life that may be strikingly eventful, I look
back upon it as a great adventure, and romantic in
the best sense of that word.”
Winding with this common pilgrimage, and illu-
minated by such beacons as the founding of the
Ashington Debating and Literary Improvement Society
and his joining of the Temperance Brass and Reed
Band, was the mental pilgrimage which is the sub-
stance of the book, and which, if it amounted to
little more than an anguished parting with the Primi-
tive Methodists when he was 40, was —as he has the
perspicacity to observe—a counterpart of the pro-
gress of scientific thought since the days of Darwin.
Such acuteness gives the book something more
than the mere charm of naivete, but it’s the latter
quality that makes it a literary rarity. If it hasn’t
the merriment of Pepys or the tranquillity of Walton,
it has at least some of their freshness. Its carefully
polysyllabic style alone is a complete self-portrait.
Add to that this statement of Armstrong’s reactions
on getting a job at the colliery:
I experienced the sensation of having been pitched
into a literal pit of iniquity in which swearing in its
most abominable forms and a hundred and one un-
speakable obscenities were its ordinary manifestations;
and, almost incredibly:
Bad language was common, and though I have
always acknowledged its appropriateness to the con-
ditions of employment as being the only mode of
expression that fitted into the circumstances,, such was
my dislike of it that I found it easy to refrain;
add his earnest hope that he is not descended from the
“lawless” Armstrongs of the Border, and there is a
portrait of a character that a novelist would sell his
socks to have created.
Beneath the deliberate placidity of his writing,
there are, too, tremendous situations of which a
novelist would make full use, but which are none
the less powerful for being understated. The grim
Northumbrian village, the passionately evangelical
father, the sceptical mother, the terrible struggle with
poverty, the dangers of the mine, the funeral that had
to be delayed because the sexton, away on a drunken
spree, had forgotten to dig the grave—all these are
the framework of exciting narrative, and Armstrong’s
half-finished structure has a rugged appeal all of its
own.
Politically he is interesting because his spiritual
pilgrimage led him to Socialism. Slow-thinking but
intelligent, slow-moving but determined, tremendously
in earnest, he is typical of the Voter to whom Hugh
Ross Williamson is appealing in Who Is for Liberty ?
Williamson, who is in a great hurry for Socialism,
and who wants Parliamentary Labor freed from the
conservatism of Transport House control, would
probably not have the attraction for him of John
Scanlon, who in Cast Off All Fooling (R.P.
22/3 / ’39) blamed the Parliamentarians for Labor’s
troubles, and pinned all his faith on the trade-unions.
Australia isn’t the only country with Labor factions
at loggerheads.
In his anxiety to prove his case against the Con-
servative party and against the monarchy as the bul-
wark of Conservatism, as well as against the T.U.C.,
Williamson falls into the usual overstatements of the
politician. His own brand of Socialism is white,
everything else is black. But at least when he is
attacking the Tory dailies for the suppression and
distortion of news (he gives some illuminating
instances), he accuses the Left Press (again docu-
menting the case) of the same crimes.
In his attack on the “Five Acts” —the Official
Secrets Act, the Emergency Powers Act, the Trades
Disputes and Trade-unions Act, the Incitement to
Disaffection Act and the Public Order Act —he is on
familiar ground. But in his attempt to prove that
democracy is really “demoplutocracy” (Mussolini’s
gibe) he has dug up some facts and figures that aren’t
so frequently aired: “At the beginning of the
1935 Parliament there were 800 company director-
ships held by Tories in the House of Commons”;
“In 1931 the House of Lords contained 246 land-
owners, 67 bank directors, 64 railway directors, 49
directors of engineering works and 112 directors of
insurance companies.” Without any wild allegations
of graft, he makes such statistics the framework of
his argument.
Who Is for Liberty ? is so controversial that one
comes to the cheerful conclusion that anyone reading
it, whatever his opinions, will find at least one chapter
with which he violently disagrees. Williamson’s view
of the Abdication, for instance, is that it was purely
and simply a “plot” by the Conservatives to get rid
of a King who had sympathised, with the unemployed.
He dislikes the Left Book Club, and will annoy
Socialists still further by sympathising with Mosley,
who he considers was driven unwillingly out of the
Labor movement by the obtuseness of Transport House.
When he added a “topical afterword” on the
September crisis, Williamson must have thought he
was bringing the book right up to date. After his
excellent analysis of the bogey-word “Fascism” and
of the crusading madness, he reverts to the old Labor
scheme of a general strike on the outbreak of war
as the only means of securing peace. Unfortunately
for Williamson —and the world —the situation has
changed so much since September that the chapter
needs rewriting.
The 'authors of Four Days have struck it un-
lucky in much the same way. If Europe had settled
down after Munich, the book would almost certainly
have been a best-seller ; it is “a symposium by leading
journalists from the major European capitals and the
United States of what they felt and saw during those
September days, after weeks of tension, when the
world’s peace was at stake.” Lord Killanin, of Lon-
don “Daily Mail” and “Sunday Dispatch,” tells what
he knows of Cabinet and diplomatic manoeuvres,
what Londoners thought and said and what London
looked like; Baron von Rheinbaben talks about
Hitler and Berlin ; Luigi Barzini on Mussolini and
Rome ; others on Prague, Paris and Washington.
None of them has any starting “revelations”
to make, but the book gives a very clear picture of
four days that shook the world. Two things, both of
which have been said many times before, emerge
from it: every one of these journalists believed or
hoped that Munich meant a new era of peace for
Europe ; and all the peoples for whom they speak —
all the “pilgrims from Nenthead” —were profoundly
thankful.


T
l
O
V
4
w
t
N
fc
H
1
E
\
MSi
■;>-x' :•: ••
83a
": 8
M
ms
m
■
JT
r
*
2
★
t/.
n*
IS
/ 7
v
-c?
*?
★
T/p
7'
□
V
’
V.:.Sv\
V. >
-~u
CTO
A $?,
4/..V
T^Msgr*
★
►v-'
i
i
W€/m
\ri v y
- 47
Dance, sing and enjoy
your week-end away from
home with a 1.4 volt port-
able radio. Easily car-
ried because it is so light
and compact always
ready to entertain you and
your friends.
For your next tennis parly
what could be better than
a modern 1.4 volt port-
able to provide music
between sets? Many
makes, many models for
you to choose from.
Bush picnics and outings
are made ten times more
enjoyable when someone
has a 1.4 volt portable
radio to provide music
and entertainment. Take
one on your next trip.
EASILY CARRIED, SMARTLY
DESIGNED, AMAZINGLY EFFICIENT
Wherever you go this year—whatever you plan to do outdoors—add to
the enjoyment of yourself and your friends by taking one of the wonderful
new 1.4 volt portable radios along. Designed on entirely NEW lines and
incorporating the recently introduced 1.4 volt valve, it is lighter, more com-
pact, more efficient and more economical than any other type of portable
radio you've ever seen. Operates entirely on dry batteries—the smoothest
and most dependable source of power for portable sets —and costs as little
as Id. PER HOUR to run! Requiring no power-point, no earth, and no
outside aerial, you can carry and use it anywhere. Many well-known
makes, many smartly designed models available for you to choose from.
See them to-day at any good radio store, or if you have any difficulty
write direct to Box 37, Mascot, N.S.W., for complete details of latest types.
1.4 VOLT RADIO IS EQUIPPED WITH
FVER READY
mummammaam I vbhhbhhbi
RADIO BATTERIES
k


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
t/fffblt Tneilcmme^mulJwuq/uei/
Of all the royal residences in London,
St. James’s Palace occupies a unique
position. It figures in the annals of
Court ceremonial, no less than in those
associated with the diplomatic work of
the Empire. Indeed, it may be said to
be a sort of royal and political, in the
diplomatic sense, centre. The building,
situate at the foot of St. James’s-street
that debouches from Piccadilly, forms a
continuation of Pall Mall, which “joins”
St. James’s-street “at the Palace front-
age.” Despite its “mixture of utilities,”
St. James’s Palace occupies an extremely
important place in those functions of
State which may be said to be “exclu-
sively confined to Royalty.” The Palace,
architecturally unattractive, has an attrac-
tiveness which appeals to antiquarians in
so much that it has not proved a “victim”
to the efforts of “modernists.” Originally
a hospital, founded prior to the Norman
invasion (1066) “for fourteen sister
maidens who were-leprous,” in 1532 it
was surrendered to Henry VIII., who
purchased also, to quote the old
chronicler, “all the meadows about St.
James s, and there made a mansion and
a park for his greater accommodation and
pleasure. ’ The Palace is an extensive
but irregular pile, principally of brick,
with very little remaining of the old
palace save the gateway, as illustrated
For certain royal functions the rooms
used have windows overlooking St.
James s Park, and are of considerable
dimensions. The furniture is handsome,
but hardly in consonance with ideas of
royal magnificence associated with such
a vast Empire as the British. For all
of that, the Palace will repay inspection
by the visitor. The State apartments are
not the least attractive from their his-
torical associations. In the chief drawing-
room a magnificent chandelier of silver
gilt excites admiration. At the entrance
to the Palace in 1786 an attempt was
made on the life of George 111. by a
woman found to be insane. In what is
called the Stable Yard are the offices of
highly-placed Court officials, and at the
office of the Lord Chamberlain here
located applications by visitors to view the
Palace have to be made. The collection
St. James’s Palace.
ol pictures housed at the Palace is notable ; though changed in comparatively recent years, still works by Holbein, Vandyck, Zucchers, Jones,
awrence an ot er eminent ar fists are to be seen. When Whitehall was destroyed by fire in 1697 to the time George IV. occupied Buckingham
a^ e ’ T *' amess Palace was the official home of Royalty. While a Palace it has also been a prison, as the history of that unfortunate monarch,
ares ~ ie ates. An especial ceremonial performed daily at 11 a.m. on the parade ground always has proved popular with visitors —the changing
o t e guard. The crimson tunics of the soldiers add a touch of brightness to the brown brick background of the Palace edged with its white
attkments. The music of the Guards’ band also “plays its part” in adding to the attractiveness of the ceremony.


THE CHAMBERLAIN EASTER EGG.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; *Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 2 s.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE NEW "COLLECTIVE SECURITY."
“That my people might turn their backs on the Con-
tinent and point their prows for the setting sun and the
fortunate isles of the blest! "—Words of a much underrated
English king, Henry VII., as wise to-day as when they
were uttered.
To Lord Arnold, the pledge that the British Gov-
ernment has given to the Polish Government is “the
most dangerous commitment” in British history. To
Mr. Lloyd George it is “a startling commitment” and
“the consequences cannot be foreseen.” Mr. Cham-
berlain himself acknowledges that “it is a new and
tremendous departure in British policy” ; and he might
have added that in his father’s age and in all previous
ages such a departure would have been inconceivable.
Britain has fought many wars, some of them
very foolish. It is now universally allowed that the
Crimean War was one of those blunders that are
worse than crimes. “They are ringing their bells now,
they will soon be wringing their hands” —such was
Walpole’s cry when he was forced into a war with
Spain by the Edens and Churchills of the period ; and
his prophecy was borne out to the letter. But “since
the gold dragon of the Wessex kings on Hastings
field went down” there has never been an English or
a British war for Czechs or Poles. Many armies have
marched and fought over the country between Prague
and Warsaw: Bohemian, Swedish, Lithuanian, Russian
and French armies ; armies led by Teutonic knights,
by Prussian princes and kings, by German princes,
kings and emperors ; but not one British army.
The last King of Bohemia was the son-in-law of
an English king from Scotland, but neither English
nor Scotch were asked to shed their blood in his
cause. There were three separate partitions of Poland.
Britain did not challenge any of them, nor did it
champion Poland in the settlements effected after
Waterloo. In the seventeenth, eighteenth and nine-
teenth centuries, crusading in distant parts of the Con-
tinent was not in fashion. If it had been there would
have 'been no British Empire.
Now all is changed. The Sydney “Morning
Herald,” while admitting in a sober moment that the
“new and tremendous departure” involves “risks”
that are “great and evident,” welcomes it as “a return
to collective restraint of the aggressor.” Yes, it is a
return in principle to what, in circumstances much
more favorable, was tried with utter and humiliating
failure in 1935-36. If the Poles give the signal,
“restraint” is to be tried against an “aggressor” with
far greater military resources than Italy and a far
stronger military position ; and if it is tried Sweden,
Norway, Denmark, Holland, Belgium, Switzerland,
Greece, Bulgaria, Rumania, Yugoslavia, Esthonia,
Finland, Lithuania and Latvia, which were all in the
line-up last time, will be missing. Moreover, the new
aggressor is allied with the old aggressor, and —partly
to secure the Adriatic for the Axis and overawe Yugo-
slavia and Greece —the old aggressor has seized
Albania. So the method of “restraint” cannot now
be “sanctions” without bloodshed. It means bloody
war.
And how is the Empire prepared to take such a
war? Relatively to the German, the Royal Navy is
much stronger than it was in 1914 —thanks, in part, to
the Anglo-German Naval Agreement, which would
be blown out of existence by the first salvo. A daring
British admiral might conceivably be able to force
his way into the Baltic, as Nelson did in 1801 and
Napier in 1854 (though Napier achieved nothing of
any consequence) and Fisher hoped to do. But
naval supremacy would be doubtful if Italy and
Japan, our allies in 1914-18, came in on the other
side. This Italy would certainly do, and so, it is all
too probable, would Japan if Britain entered into
another Russian alliance.
Although it is proposed to double the strength of
the Territorials and plan for the dispatch of 19 divi-
sions to France, the British Army could not put into
the field forces such as it assembled in 1916, 1917 and
1918. There will be no million Dominion soldiers next
time, if there is a next time. No Dominion Govern-
ment would dare to send troopships to Europe when
safe passage could not be guaranteed. Nor will there be
any Belgian army unless Belgium is attacked. As for
France, its striking power may be cancelled out;
France would have to face the grim possibility of a
defensive war on three fronts. And the strength of
its air arm is gravely doubted. During the hectic
Blum-Cot-40-hour-week period the French building
programme went to pot, and in international races
French machines were beaten by hours. It is improb-
able that air power would be the decisive factor, and
the chances are that the French defensive measures
are as adequate as those of the British seem to
be ; but in the air, as on land, pronounced superiority
cannot be claimed.
On the other hand, the German Army is relatively
as strong as it was in 1914-18. Although it is without
northern and southern Slavs —the Russians are with-
out Finns, Poles, Letts, Lithuanians, Bessarabians and
millions of Ukrainians —it has lost the disadvantage of
divided leadership.
The Poles have no navy and not much of an
air force. A high value is set on their army by remote
observers, addicted to believing what they wish to
believe, but they have no record of victory over the
Germans, though they encountered Germans often
enough in 1914-16. After 1918 they fought Czechs,
Ukrainians and Lithuanians, and in 1920 they hurled
the Red invaders back to Russia, inflicting on that
country the third defeat it had suffered in 16 years.
But they have a long and indefensible frontier ; their
racial minorities are as dissatisfied as were those of
Czechoslovakia, and since 1919 they have not lived
down their old reputation for instability.
It was because of this instability that they lost
their independence. They used to put their crown
up for sale, and it was bought by foreigners —
French, Swedish, Hungarian, Saxon —with suffi-
cient to grease the requisite number of palms. In
their Diet they went in for the liberum veto, a counter-
part of the modern club’s “one blackball disqualifies,”
though it went much farther. The vote of one repre-
sentative, often a corrupt landlord, could not only
reject a measure submitted to the Diet, but nullify
all the measures passed that session, or, if the gentle-
man persisted, any subsequent session.
In the Polish State, as reconstructed after 123
years, a wedge of territory—the too-famous Corridor —-
separates one part of Prussia from another. The
apparatus of Parliamentary government exists, but
even “S. M. Herald” admits that the army runs the
country.
In the speech delivered at Ottawa when the
Canadian Government knew what was impending, Mr.
Mackenzie King paid a just tribute to “Mr. Cham-
berlain’s great contribution to peace at Munich”:
He followed exactly the right course to prevent war.
He never lost his faith, his temper or his head.
And he, of course, refused to give the Czech Gov-
ernment an unconditional offer of assistance which
would have admitted of its carrying the British
Empire into a war. But has not this been done in the
case of the Poles? May not the General Staff of
that country construe the Chamberlain pledge as
placing in their hands the terrible power which was
rightly refused to the Czechs? “In the event of action
which clearly threatened Polish independence, and
which the Poles considered it vital to resist, the
British Government would feel bound to lend Poland
all the support in its power” —do not those words
leave the decision to the military rulers of an explosive
and unstable race?
It is the universal judgment of the English-
speaking world that the suppression of the Czech
republic was an act of betrayal. Disappointment, in-
dignation, bitterness, is a natural British reaction. But
was the British Government therefore justified in
accepting the policy of the Ginger Group, in promis-
ing armed assistance to Poland if Poland elects to
consider that its “independence” is “threatened,” in
sanctioning a course of action which, if it involved
the Dominions in war, would expose at least two of
them to immediate perils —loss of their sea-borne
trade and attack by sea and air? When the Canadian
Prime Minister characterised as “a nightmare” the
“idea that Canada should risk the lives of its citizens
every twenty years... .to help to run a continent
which cannot run itself,” surely he gave Canada’s
answer in advance.
“The common business of life,” said Mr. Cham-
berlain, “cannot be carried on in a state of uncer-
tainty” ; and that is true. These repeated shocks
from the Mad Continent are damaging business and
disturbing minds everywhere, and the armaments race
threatens all the nations with bankruptcy ; but is there
no way out but war? Suppose it is true that Ger-
many aims at subjugating Europe, which Hitler denies.
In an age when finance, trade and commerce are so
interdependent, when terrible weapons can be con-
cealed in coat-pockets, and when the boycott and
passive resistance have been reduced to fine arts, there
are limits to what any conquering nation can do and
to what any conquered nation will suffer. Very defi-
nite limits are imposed by mortality and time.
Ours is an old empire with settled institutions.
It has seen many conquerors and many dictators
come and go. It is dealing now with leaders who
are fanatics, and whose leadership has made their
peoples fanatical. There has never been a shred of
real evidence that either wants to attack the British
or even the French, though it is now only too plain
that both resent and fear what they regard as a
British resurrection of the French alliances that col-
lapsed last year. Consultation gained something for
the Empire and the world ; it gained time when time
was precious. What has been gained, what can be
gained, by Warning Germany?
Warning Italy was tried by Mr. Eden, and Warn-
ing Germany has been the “remedy” of that gentle-
man and Mr. Churchill for years. It has no sound
psychological basis or good historical precedent. Sup-
pose the Scots were in the position that these Ger-
mans occupy, what on earth would be the use of
Warning the Scots? At best, Warnings plus the im-
provisation of alliances with remote peoples who
demand their price could produce only a temporary
effect. We have been denied even this poor satisfac-
tion. “Return to collective restraint of the aggressor”
has already brought more trouble. The situation has
grown worse instead of better.
Is there no hope, then, for the race? Must it
drift into another catastrophe? Shall the future of
these young countries, now so fair, be endangered,
and perhaps darkened indefinitely? Surely not!
Faith in consultation has been shaken, but the method
has not been exhausted. Let it be applied under
other auspices—those of the President of the United
States and the President of the Argentine Republic,
for example. Call in the New World to correct the
blunders of the Old. To a committee nominated by
these Presidents and by the leaders of the great reli-
gions and the rulers of Scandinavia, none of the
Governments concerned could, without grave moral
weakening of its case, refuse to refer the issues that
divide them. But there is not a moment to be lost.
The Passing of J.A. Lyons.
On April 7, with a suddenness which shocked the
people of Australia, Joseph Aloysius Lyons, the tenth
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth, died in St. Vin-
cent’s Hospital, Sydney. He had driven from Can-
berra on the Tuesday evening to attend the official
luncheon of the Royal Agricultural Society. Never
one to complain without cause, he complained of ill-
ness. On Wednesday morning, his private secretary
took him to the hospital.
The doctors discovered an occlusion of the
coronary artery, an affection to which overworried
elderly men are subject. It is usually fatal when they
are over 50. Mr. Lyons put up a strong fight for life,
but at 10.40 a.m. on Good Friday he breathed his last.
His death has inspired a deep and genuine grief.
The Prime Minister was a man for whom everybody,
of whatever party, felt a good-natured affection; for
he himself was a good-natured man. He had none
of the ruthless qualities of mind and will which go
with outstanding greatness, and none of the fanati-
cism which breeds fixed enmity. His adversaries could
not fear him or detest him. When his Ministries
were rent with dissension, even complete political
breach with a colleague made little difference to
mutual personal relations.
In no sense a great man, Mr. Lyons was a good
man. Clever he was not, but he had what is better
than cleverness —character. He was a plain Austra-
lian, simple in speech, manner and tastes, and com-
pletely without pretentiousness. He was always ready
to sacrifice himself and his health and comfort to
his job.
His interests were bounded almost entirely by
his home and his office. Very happy in his family
life, he was proud of his wife and his 11 children.
They meant more to him than his work, and their
future was one of his constant worries, for, although
he was Premier of Tasmania for five years and Prime
Minister for 7| years, he died poor. Not even his
strongest opponents could find, or would have tried
to find, cause to suggest that he had ever in his public
life been guided in the slightest particular by self-
interest.
His deputy, and now his successor, has made it
clear that the Commonwealth Government will see
the bereaved family provided for. There is plenty
of precedent. Four years ago a special bill was
passed to confer a pension on the widow of Walter
Kingsmill, who had been 36 years in the Westraliart
and Commonwealth Parliaments. Provision in the
Lyons case should be made generously in keeping
with Mr. Lyons’s long service and with the national
dignity.
Such is the nature of British methods of govern-
ment that the rare death of a Prime Minister in office
—unprecedented in the Commonwealth Parliament,
though Palmerston and Campbell Bannerman died as
British Premiers —does little to interrupt the course of
executive government. A few new commissions have
to be issued, but public life runs on in an even stream
unperturbed by the revolutions and the fireworks
which would inevitably follow such a situation
in many Continental States. Immediately Mr. Lyons
had died, Dr. Earle Page and a new Ministry were
sworn in, to hold office till their parties can make
another arrangement. The political situation is little
changed intrinsically. It had been evident for some
time that the Lyons Ministry was nearing the end
of its natural life.
Since an appeal to the country cannot be long
delayed, to choose a leader is to summon him to an
early sacrifice. Party considerations will prevent Dr.
Page from remaining Prime Minister. There is no
such impediment in the case of Mr. Cameron, who
is supported in S.A. by the Liberal and Country
League, but the U.A.P. bosses turn pale at the
thought of the plum falling into the lap of a man
who has trodden on so many corns, and who has such
strong convictions about the need for national train-
ing and service. The U.A.P. press thinks well of the
chances of Mr. W. M. Hughes, who is U.A.P. now
and rising 74.
If expediency demands a U.A.P. Prime Minister,
Mr. Menzies has claims far superior to those of Mr.
Hughes. A much younger man and an abler speaker,
he at least has not forgotten that national training was
Australian law and practice for 18 years, or that the
national obligation to service in time of emergency
remains. Nor does Mr. Menzies imagine that the
gravest problems can be solved by stale platitudes
and dated invective. But The Bulletin supports Mr.
Cameron for Prime Minister. He has given proofs
of a capacity for leadership, and he is the only pos-
sible P.M. who can be relied upon to reintroduce
and extend national training, whatever the conse-
quences to himself.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Foreign Competition in the Air.
A few months ago the Dutch asked for permission
to compete with Imperial Airways in passenger traffic
on the London-Australia route.
Presently the public was informed that the
British mail schedule would be cut down by half a
day, so that mails would be delivered from London
in Sydney in 9| days instead cf 10.
Practice does not follow theory. Of two flying-
boats due last week, one was 48 hours and one 24
hours late. Nothing new about either circumstance
—late arrivals have been common.
A great deal of time was wasted by our Gov-
ernments in dreary discussions as to the machines to
be employed. Thus the flying-boat service found
itself up against faster competitors. It is now said
that the need to combine a passenger service with a
mail service slows up the schedule. The reply of the
Dutch is a projected K.L.M. passenger service—four
days London to Sydney, day- and night-flying— next
year. The machines they propose to use when in
full swing will be D.C. Douglas 4’s, capable of
230 m.p.h. and accommodating 20 passengers.
In London, the British Air Ministry “has in
mind” the establishment of a service which will take
2j days—giant landplanes this time, making only four
stops en route. This means that in a couple of years
we may be even with the Dutch.
Meanwhile Australians have been informed in a
two-line par. that the Japanese have established “a
regular passenger service between Yokohama and
Palau, in the Caroline Islands.”
In Six Months or So.
The subject is the N.S.W. Stevens Government’s
finance: —
September 27.—“ A surplus of £7785 is estimated for
1938-39. The working surplus of the railways for 1937-38 was
£6,631,439, and a further improvement of £170,531 is ex-
pected in 1938-39. Further reductions in workmen’s weekly
fares will be made.” — Mr. Stevens’s Budget speech.
October 14. —Mr. Stevens, addressing the people over
the air, demands a Drive for National Security, an Advance
on All Fronts. Proposed advance of Mr. Stevens into the
Commonwealth Cabinet rejected.
October 18.—Mr. Stevens hands over the Treasury to
Mr. Mair.
October 19.—Mr. Stevens, still Premier, though no
longer Treasurer, moves for “leave to bring in a bill to
make further provision in regard to the allowances to
members of the Legislative Assembly and the salaries of
Ministers of the Crown and of certain other persons” —in
other words, to distribute another £14,000 p.a. among
Ministers, members and officers of the House. “The bill,”
said Mr. Stevens, “is to become operative as from the first
day of the financial year,” i.e., July 1, “the object in so
dating it being to permit the Government to keep faith with
a promise that I personally made to my colleagues last June.”
And, of course, to give all hands and the cook four months’
back pay at the increased rate. One of them was not a
member on July 1.
October 20. —The Minister of Justice introduces the
Salary Grab Bill. It is switched through second-reading and
committee stages in 16 minutes.
January 4—Mr. Mair announces that expenditure for
six months exceeds revenue by £5,083,600.
March I.—Thumping increase in railway fares and freight-
rates. Calculated, it is alleged, to bring in “10 p.c. more
revenue,” the schedule doubles some fares and adds from
16 2-3 p.c. to 50 p.c. to others.
April I.—“ln Loan Council discussions at Canberra it
is admitted that the N.S.W. deficit for 1938-39 will be ap-
proximately £1,800,000.”
Clever Mr. Stevens!
Short History of Albania.
A clarion call from Yahmourtah Beg:
All class-conscious Australians should be ready to peti-
tion their Government to fight for Albania at the shortest
notice. It is a little country, and there are two kinds of
Albanian. One wears a plaited skirt and the other doesn t,
and there is never any local fighting in Albania itself save
when one kind of Albanian meets the other kind of Albanian;
or when both sorts of Albanian meet a stranger from over
the Yugoslavian line. They train on sheep’s-milk cheese.
What a fine country it is for peaceful democracies to support
actively the following summary of its history will indicate:
Fifth century, Goths overran it. Sixth century, Justinian
(and Albanians) overran Goths. Seventh century, Byzantines
and Albanians overrun by Serbs. Eighth and ninth centuries,
Bulgarians, Albanians, Byzantines and Serbs had a free-for-
all, at the end of which overruns were so confused that
it is difficult to follow them. There were at least five parties
to the scraps. , , ,
At the end of the fourteenth century, the smoke cleared
away a bit and a Norman gentleman, Balsa, was noted poking
various strangers oif the hillsides with the aid of Albanians,
while Venetians were dropping interlopers into the Adriatic
along tire fertile coastal belt.
A few years afterwards assorted Albanians and Venetians
were pushing back the Turk. Another generation saw the
Turks in charge. That was in 1478. Except for half a
dozen revolts of Albanians every year, nothing happened in
Albania till 1760. Then the North Albanians “threw off the
Turkish yoke.” The Turks threw it back.
Life in North Albania became like a hardly-contested
game of deck tennis. In 1831, the North Albanians threw in
the towel and went off to console the South Albanians. They
had been beaten in love games in the last set of the yoke-
throwing by the Ottoman in 1822, after only 72 years of play
on their court. They started earlier than the Northerners.
In 1879, the Albanian League was formed to prevent the
Great Powers uniting Albania to Greece and Montenegro.
Except for fighting the Old Turks, the Young Turks, the Serbs
and a few others, and practically starting the Balkan War, and
nearly starting the Great War a year before its time, Albania
had no fun in 34 years. At the end of that time it acquired
independence and Prince Wilhelm of Wied as King. He landed
on March 7, 1914. The fastest Albanian just missed him by
a whisker as he leapt the borderline into safer territory the
following September.
During the subsequent hostilities, some of the people who
occupied bits or all of Albania were the Italians, French,
Greeks, Serbs, Bulgars and Montenegrins. Britain did no
occupying—just settled the frequent arguments.
In 1917, the Italians declared Albania independent under
their protection, quashing or repudiating an agreement of
guarantee made by the Powers in 1913.
In 1918, after a mixed Government had been estab-
lished at Scutari by various allies, the Albanians chucked
the Italians into Valona Harbor. The Italians swam home.
The rest'of the Allies knocked off work to restrain the Yugo-
slavs from marching on Tirana. Nobody wanted anything
to happen to the Yugoslavs. Albania was compensated for
not being allowed to kill a few thousand of them by
being admitted to the League.
The modern history of Albania now begins—thus:
On December 25, 1921, Djaper Ypi formed the sixth post-
Great War Albanian constitutional Ministry, with Ahmed Zogu
as Minister for the Interior. In 1924, the Government dis-
covering that Zogu was up to no good, the latter broke
Wilhelm of Wied’s record across the border easily. In 1925,
he came back on a dark night, and next day there was a
republic with Zogu as President. In 1926, the Yugoslavs pre-
pared to invade North Albania. The Italians marched in and
signed the collaboration treaty of Tirana with the Albanians.
Yugoslavia prepared to walk in and overthrow Zogu and
Italians. The League pulled Yugoslavia off and averted “a
grave international crisis.”
In November, 1927, Italy and Albania signed a defensive
alliance and Zog became King. King Zog married a Hun-
garian countess who used to sell postcards in a Budapest
museum.
The democratic world is agreed that the latest invasion
of Albania is a detestable business, but invasion of Albania
has never been a paying proposition. There are a million
Albanians and they have looked after themselves pretty
well considering their situation and the untold hosts of their
surrounding enemies. They are firmly convinced intervention-
ists —when the other fellow does the intervening. Tirana
mightn’t be a bad place for our next political delegation to
visit, just to see what can be done in the way of resistance
by a determined people.
Preparedness and a Prophet.
There was an entertainment aboard an aircraft car-
rier, the Ark Royal, at Portsmouth last Wednesday
evening and Earl Stanhope held forth. Films were
on the programme, one being “Trouble Brewing.”
His Lordship anticipated the screening of it in these
terms:
Unfortunately, others are not here to-night, because,
shortly before 1 left the Admiralty, it was necessary
to give orders to man the Fleet anti-aircraft guns in
order to be ready for anything that might happen. Long
before our guests came on board the Ark Royal 16
anti-aircraft guns could have given a warm welcome
to anyone who happened this way.
Earl Stanhope is First Lord of the Admiralty. Never-
theless the First Sea Lord and his colleagues cen-
sored the speech. It had, however, been broadcast
and got into first editions of some newspapers. Learn-
ing this, Mr. Chamberlain asked the Press not to
publish it.
There followed debates in the Commons and the
Lords. Mr. Chamberlain, who is ill-served by some
of his colleagues, let Earl Stanhope down very lightly,
saying it was “normal practice in time of tension” to
keep men on board their own ships. His Lordship,
full of regrets, explained that his remarks were
“intended to emphasise the readiness of the Royal
Navy for all eventualities.”
On this side of the world Defence Minister
Street was saying in a broadcast, also on Wednesday
evening (difference in time understood and allowed
for), that the “risk of war is very deadly and very
near.”
Possibly both gentlemen had been reading copies
of a letter written by a prophet to The Bulletin from
a Perth bank. The prophet gave his name but pre-
fers to be known as “Ex-Special Reservist, R.S.R.”
The long-expected World War will commence with
an air raid delivered by the Italian Air Force upon London
on the afternoon of the Oxford and Cambridge boat-
race. Besides bombing railway termini, power stations,
telegraph and telephone exchanges, the crowds watching
the “race” will also be bombed, and probably with
gas. Even if the race is over before they arrive, it
generally takes until after midnight for everybody to get
away.
Germany, for the first month or so and perhaps
longer, will not attempt to advance on land past her
western frontiers, but have just sufficient forces to hold
her fortifications against France. But she will carry out
air raids and submarine attacks westward. The whole
of her other available land and air forces will be con-
centrated in a tremendous “Push” through to the Black
Sea along both sides of the Danube, thus capturing
the Rumanian oil wells and being able to transfer
submarines, destroyers and possibly cruisers as well from
the Baltic, via the Rhine-Oder-Danube canal, to the
Black Sea and Mediterranean.
Owing to the success of this Push, Turkey and the
other Balkan States will be .frightened into either becom-
ing Germany’s Allies or Benevolent Neutrals.
Having enormous quantities of armaments and
munitions ready, Germany will be ready to fortify a
line north of the Danube to stop the Russians advancing
in that direction.
The eastern Mediterranean will be entirely cut off
from British and French influence for a time, and Ger-
many and Italy will be able to take Egypt and the Suez
Canal.
Australian Troops will be sent to Africa, probably
to Kenya, for the purpose of taking Abyssinia and/or
defending the Sudan and Uganda.
There will also be Trouble in India, another Mutiny
perhaps, which will either prevent the British Army
leaving there or, if they have already left, Australia will
have to send an army there also.
If the Italo-German preparations are not quite ready
by the date of the boatrace, then some other big function
which attracts everybody’s attention in England in the
very near future will be chosen.
In any case, it will start with an Italian air raid upon
London, and the other events will follow as set out
above.
So far the prophet has been moderately right on
one point only. The boatrace was only a race.
Cambridge won hands down.
Teuton v. Slav.
Things which invite the scorn of all Sydney morning-
paper editors and radio commentators were said dur-
ing a House of Lords debate on foreign affairs: —
Lord Hastings opposed co-operation with Russia.
“Britain’s prime interests,” he said, “are to regain the
friendship with Italy and to promote friendship with
Sp^in.”
Lord Phillimore: “I do not desire to see Russia out-
lawed, but there are other friends we might make.”
Lord Cato: “I do not wish to see Britain involved
in the ages-old Teuton-Slav rivalry. ‘Collective security’
with France and Russia precipitated the Great War.”
These remarks unquestionably reflect the views of a
great many Britons, although such views rarely get
into print on this 'side of the world. Philip Gibbs,
writing in Ordeal in England, published in 1937, pre-
visioned “what is called by the intelligentsia ‘the
sacrifice of Czechoslovakia,’ ” and defended it on the
ground that “no statesman worth the name is justi-
fied in subjecting the whole of liberal civilisation to
collapse and destruction for the sake of a small syn-
thetic nation, of no history and no social unity, which
was set up at Versailles merely as a political buffer
State.” And he saw the Germans and Russians mov-
ing towards war and had no rush of interventionism
to the head. On the contrary, he wrote: —
If there must be a war, let it occur in the wastes of
Asia. In short, if Germany and Japan want to have a go
at Russia, let any obstacles to their desires be cleared away.
The advantages of such a solution are obvious.
The two doctrines of Communism and Fascism, to-
gether with Japanese imperialism, should be induced to
expend their strength on one another. It is extremely
improbable that either Russia, on the one hand, or the
German-Japanese alliance, on the other, would be com-
pletely defeated. It is probable that on both east and
west Russia’s extremities would suffer.... There would
be created a situation in which democracy as a whole
might exercise the balance of power for years to come.
The British kept their European predominance for a
hundred years by playing off France against Germany.
It is now time for democracy to play off Fascism
against Communism. It does not require an alliance.
It demands only that the democratic Powers do that
in which they most excel, which is to say, do nothing.
There is the continual refrain of the French that
force must be used to prevent a Teutonic bloc in
central Europe. It must be either the force of the
democratic countries or the force of the Slavs. From
all points of view, it ought to be left to the Slavs.
Are these merely the callous opinions of a veteran
cynic? No ; Gibbs closes on a passionate note: —
We lost the fine flower of our race in the last war
—a million of our best. Those who would have been
our leaders now went down into the mud of Flanders
and the Somme. Are we to complete our ruin by bloody
adventures on behalf of Russia or Czechoslovakia?
All his days Philip Gibbs has been a man of peace,
and he is accepted in Britain as an idealist.
Population and Power.
“Yezo” on our northern neighbor: —
In 1927 the Japanese Bureau of Statistics made an estimate
of future population which has been nearly correct so far.
According to this, the home population of Japan will reach
80,000.000 in 1950 and 90,000,000 in 1959. Beyond this the
estimate, which was prepared for the Population and Food
Commission, did not go.
Yasumaro Shimojo, a former director of the Bureau,
made elaborate calculations showing a slightly lower increase
and concluded that the population would reach a maximum
of 85,542,100 in 1970 and would then cease to grow.
Shimojo found that the Japanese trend followed the
German, lagging behind a few decades. He based
his figures largely on the assumption, legitimate
when he made it, that the German increase would
reach zero in 1947. This is not likely to be the case in view
of the recent rise in the German birthrate, so that the basis
may prove unsound.
On the other hand there is little to support the alarmist
estimates of a Japanese population rising m geometrical
progression. Discussing the future of the rice supply the
Department of Agriculture in 1917 estimated that the popula-
tion would reach 98,000,000 in 1957, 113,000,000 in 1967 and
228,000,000 in 2017. The estimate was based on the rate of
growth for 1909-1913, but the figure for 1937 proved to be
6,000,000 too high.
Between 1872 and 1935 Japan’s home population practically
doubled, rising 99 per cent. But before that it had been
nearly stationary for over two centuries. It has been esti-
mated that in 1580 the population was 18,000,000, and a rough
census made in 1721 gave 26,000,000. The curve of Japanese
population does in fact follow fairly closely that of
and of other industrialised nations of north-west Europe,
except that the rise began later. By analogy it should go
° n Xike their Triangle partners, the Japanese give more
attention to population as a matter of high national poncy
than do the democracies. Tokugoro Nakabashi put a much
older idea in words in 1907 when he discussed the population
needed by a world Power. He concluded that, while from
30,000,000 to 50,000,000 were enough to make anation a
world Power in the nineteenth century, from 80,000,000 to
100 000,000 would be needed by the end of the present century.
As far back as 1872 “child-rearing funds” were sponsored by
the Government. . . ... f .,
A curious by-product of the interest in the quality of the
population was the movement for racial admixture which was
much agitated and discussed in Japan in the eighties and
’nineties Prime Minister Ito even sought the opinion of
Herbert Spencer on the question of encouraging intermarriage
with Europeans. Spencer advised against it, though he
describes it as “one of the most difficult problems of the day.
In National Insurance's Home.
Cabled extracts from the report of a British Gov-
ernment committee: —
Overcrowding is worse than anything to be found
in Shanghai. It includes houses which baffle description.
Hundreds of them were uninhabitable years ago,
but are not yet demolished. Many are only 8ft. high
and are partitioned into two rooms. Children are.
placed in beds vacated by tuberculosis patients ...
Many local authorities even are not aware that they
possess powers in connection with sanitation. .
People have not changed their homes and liaoits
for generations. Few housewives even trouble to make
soups or stews. Families have adopted a staple diet
of tea, bread, and jam, with practically no vegetables.
Malnutrition therefore is widespread. f
The tuberculosis deathrate among females of trom
15 to 25 is described as “distressingly high.
Was the Government committee describing con-
ditions in the worst areas of war-ridden China. Or
in the “Mother India” of Katherine Mayo? Not at
all. They are what now exist in the depressed
areas” of Wales, home of Mr. Lloyd George, who -
years ago carried through the National Insurance
Act, on which Mr. Casey’s measure was modelled.
Not Banned.
In B. 29/3/’39 there was printed a letter
from the Melbourne office asking that copies
ordered for delivery to Bavaria should be
addressed to France, information having been
received that “the entry of The Bulletin
into Germany is banned.”
Dr. Asmis, the German Consul-General,
writes:
“I beg to inform you that I cabled to the
Ministry for Foreign Affairs in Berlin, and
have received the reply that there does not
exist any ban on The Bulletin in Germany.
I should be very pleased if you would kindly
rectify the statement.”
According to custom, The Bulletin gives
the same prominence to the correction as to
the misstatement.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Hawkshaw”: There is a flavor of
Mark Twain’s burlesque detective story
“The Stolen White Elephant” about the
incidents surrounding the disappearance
of Woolcott-Forbes. W.-Forbes, against
whom a warrant was issued (on a charge
of fraudulent conversion of scrip) after
he had left this country, is a large, definite
person. His nickname is “The Bull-
fighter,” he looks like a professional
wrestler, and once seen is not likely to
be forgotten. The Bombay police plucked
him from the Strathnaver on January 14,
charged him, and adjourned the case to
March 30, as there was then no one in
Bombay to apply for extradition on be-
half of the Australian authorities. Forbes
was allowed bail. In due course there
arrived in Bombay a detective-sergeant
from Sydney. What sort of surveillance,
if any, he applied to Forbes is not stated,
but while down on the wharf welcoming
a friend this policeman noticed that
Forbes’s bail-man was returning to Aus-
tralia, and informed the Bombay police,
who then discovered that Forbes had
skipped. N. S. Wales police threw the
whole blame on Bombay ; their own man,
apparently, just went there to pursue his
social occasions. Some said Forbes had
gone to Goa ; some said he had flown
to London. Scotland Yard got busy and
clapped the darbies on a Sydney man,
H. R. Diamond, on a visit to London.
He had no more resemblance to Forbes
than a Pomeranian has to a Dachshund,
was well known at Australia House, and
several highly-respectable ex-Australians
now in London arose to vouch for his
identity. When Forbes’s fingerprints
arrived from Australia Diamond was re-
leased with explosive suddenness. The
epitaph is supplied by a Sydney journal
which has been following the case with
feverish eagerness: “There is a growing
feeling in police circles that Woolcott-
Forbes will never return to Australia.”
We’re used to such performances in Syd-
ney; but Scotland Yard!
“S.”: Curious that two men so much
in the public eye as McKay, of the
“Bones” case, and Woolcott-Forbes
should both have tucked themselves away
from tte vulgar gaze so thoroughly, and
that both should have been associated
with claims of mistaken identity. The
police still claim that the man who said
he isn’t McKay is McKay, but the man
arrested in London as Forbes definitely
isn’t. Two good news stories would
come to light if the M.L. police
told how they found McKay and the
N.S.W. police disclosed how on earth
they managed to lose track of the other
chap.
* * * *
“Whitey”: “Trevdee’s” family of 22
(B. 29/3/’39) is surpassed by at least two
families in N.S.W., which have reached
the two-dozen mark; in fact, a twenty-
fifth child was born to one of these fami-
lies at Oberon in 1917, but it survived only
a few days. The second family is that of
a teacher employed by the Department
of Education. While on the subject, let
me mention Condobolin (N.S.W.), which
boasts seven families, living within a
stone’s-throw of each other, which own
an aggregate of 126 nippers.
* * * *
“Beaumaris”: It was Ruskin who de-
clined several invitations to visit America
“I could have sworn , sir, it Was the Yarra.”
on the ground that he could not even
for a couple of months live in a country
so miserable as to possess no castles.
Australia does possess one or two modern
“castles,” of which Dailey’s “Castle” at
Manly (N.S.W.) and Yugilbar, on the
Clarence, are somewhat typical speci-
mens ; but now Dailey’s is to make room
for a block of flats, and the heights of
Manly will be robbed of their “defences.”
In England at one period there were at
least 1500 castles, of which some beau-
tiful ruins still remain, and it has been
estimated that Beaumaris Castle, the
culminating achievement of the military
architect, cost at least £280,000 to erect,
in money values of to-day. The use of
artillery as a siege weapon ended the
castle-building era in England. The mod-
ern “castle” is, of course, merely a
fapade of no more architectural sig-
nificance than the canvas ramparts of
the stage.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The surgeons missed tak-
ing their share in the centenary business
in Victoria last week. April 4 was the
hundredth anniversary of the first recorded
operation by a surgeon in Melbourne,
abo. sawbones excepted. Occasion for
it was the explosion of an ancient
blunderbuss which a certain Isaac Smith
filled with gunpowder and discharged in
honor of Lady Franklin, wife of the
Lieut.-Governor of Tasmania, then visit-
ing the settlement. The unfortunate cele-
brator was taken to John Pascoe Fawk-
ner’s celebrated hostelry, where his arm
was removed at the elbow by Dr. P.
Cussen. Cussen was first president of
Victoria’s medical association and later
of the first Board of Health.
“S.V.”: Almost anything may happen
in the sacred cause of public entertain-
ment. A travelling circus put on a show
at a Victorian country centre which in-
cluded the descent by a youth of 19 per
parachute from an aeroplane. A thou-
sand spectators watched the lad make
his leap at 2500 ft., while a radio an-
nouncer counted the seconds before the
parachute opened. He stopped at 13,
and the horrified crowd saw the per-
former desperately struggling to open his
parachute, which remained a hopelessly-
tossing ball until he disappeared into a
mangrove swamp. His body was found
almost completely buried. Death was
instantaneous. Civil Aviation officials
assert that the dead man infringed three
regulations, inasmuch as he had only
one parachute, did not apply for per-
mission, and packed the parachute him-
self instead of having it packed for him
by a licensed person.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A dog was crossing a subur-
ban railway line in Melbourne when it
was hit by a passing train. Through
some inadvertence, when the news
reached Russell-street the victim had be-
come a man. The police patrol arrived
on the scene followed by a civil ambu-
lance, and there was a consultation over
the writhing body of the animal. It
was remembered that under the Justices
Act and the Police Offences Act an
ownerless dog cannot be put out of its
misery without the authority of two
Js.P. After considerable delay two jus-
tices were brought hurrying to the scene,
whereupon a constable dispatched the
beast with a bullet through the brain,
The animal was of no particular parent-
age. A very convincing demonstration
of the sacredness of animal life. But in
the first quarter of 1939 122 people were
killed in traffic accidents largely due to
motor vehicles and of the motor-cars
which passed through Safety Lane a
week before Easter only 27 p.c. were in
complete order. There is nothing yet on
the statute books suggesting the com-
pulsory checking of the efficiency of
motor-cars.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The Dutch system invented
by the old East India Co. of marriage by
proxy for its servants in the tropics is
being used by European refugees as a
passport to Australia. With the Dutch
all that was necessary was for the swain
to send a glove to his prospective fiancee
in Holland, she made a similar gift, and
the marriage was confirmed when the
odd gloves became pairs again under the
Equator. In the present case the mar-
riages are arranged on a more official
basis, and they don’t always work out
• q union
in the direction of a permanent union.
Some refugees have their passages facili-
tated by arranging marriages with natu-
ralised Australians, but their interest in
their spouses ceases on their arrival in
the country of their adoption. Conse-
quently h/a few years’ time there are
Hkely to be some strange complications
if the soi-disant wife objects to being
merely a momentary convenience. An-
other method is for Australian mothers
of alien nationality to nominate refugees
for admission to the country, hoping
against hope that gratitude or Eros or
something will produce the result desired
by all matrons with marriageable
daughters.
* * * *
“T.”: Westralians do not share the
prevalent opinion that Jews are exclu-
sively town-dwellers. They remember
the Emanuels, who ran Kimberley cattle
stations, and the Davises, who founded
Karridale, being the pioneer sawmillers
there. “Karri” Davis, one of the sons,
went to South Africa, where he became
a leader of the Uitlanders. He was a
major in the force that was to have joined
hands with Jameson’s Raiders, and
Kruger grabbed him when the raid had
spluttered out. Unlike other Uitlanders,
whose tactics were distinctly safety-first,
Davis was a real fighter, as he de-
monstrated during the Boer War.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: What is it about Mr.
Lang that drives leader-writers to hurl
the extraordinary noun “taradiddle” at
his utterances? Some time ago we had
Granny doing her dear old damnedest
with, “Mr. Lang’s bid for political sup-
port with a bizarre taradiddle about a
Fascist-Communist plot argues a desper-
ate plight” ; now we have the “Daily
News” thundering, “The taradiddle em-
ployed by Mr. Lang and his desperate
heelers in the Inner Group about the
‘Daily News’ and its supposed backing
by the Bank of New South Wales.” These
associations of the dim past and the
nursery give Mr. Lang’s political career
an Alice in Wonderland flavor—a tara-
diddle that is told, as it were.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The thoughtful gift by
Rudyard Kipling’s widow of the MSS.
of « The Five Na fions” to the National
Library, Canberra, evoked a somewhat
en ' rous not i ce by Kenneth Scott in
“5.M.H.,” wherein “The Young
Queen ” penned for the inauguration of
Com monwealth, was dismissed as “a
s j- thing with a certain sentimental
va^ue ” Another piece was stigmatised
as “ do gg e rel,” and a third as “sheer
bombast.” The criticism may be justified
—highbrows never have much time for
popular poets—but where was the neces-
sjty to look a gift horse in the mouth?
To my mind a much more interesting
thing about “The Young Queen” is some
c f the emendations that were made after
the poem was published in the “Times”
and was cabled to Australia (in Novem-
her, 1900) and before it appeared in book
form. For instance, in the original ver-
s j on two lines ran:
“How can I crown thee further? I know
whose standard flies
Where the clean surge takes the Leeuwin
and the notched Kaikouras rise .”
tt „ „
In the d b £° k < n °f wrier? 1 ”
replaced by coral barriers
no great difference to the sense, and Kip
ling was probably quite aware that the
mountains referred to were in MX but
it may have b#l represented to hmt that
people would think hirn guilty of a geo
graphical Ha-ttjoJgg
tion. But I suppose that the notched
Kaikouras" still figure in the manusenpt.
ALPHABETICAL EMINENCE (OR
THE A’S HAVE IT).
If ever you have it in your mind to make a
bid for a Senate seat
And cherish the thought of filling a place
among stately Canberra’s elite,
With a firm belief in your party creed (what-
ever it is) and zeal for The Cause,
And a thousand a year for the pleasant job
of making, maiming or mangling laws,
Don’t kid yourself that an iron jaw and
leather lungs will pull you through,
Though they have their uses admittedly—and
so has a platform “presence,” too.
But a better asset than each or both in a
hotly-fought election fray,
And a surer winning card for votes, is a
moniker that starts with an A.
A ringing voice and a happy wit and a repu-
tation for talking straight
Are far from negligible aids for a Senatorial
candidate;
And, even before the dullest crowd, some
hustings merit there need must be
In a gift for coining a pungent phrase or an
aptitude for repartee;
And it’s just as certain there’s something that
always impresses and attracts
In a ready tongue and a mastery of telling
figures and frozen facts,
Yet, whosoever the man may be, a higher
value the know-alls set
On a name that starts with a letter from the
topmost drawer of the alphabet.
There were times when budding tribunes
wished, whenever for votes they had to
plead,
For a trifle of Deakin’s eloquence, a scrap of
the wizardry of Reid,
But the day is past for such lures as those.
They count no more with the modern Lab.
Than the biting logic of Billy Hughes or Dr.
Page’s gift of the gab.
He scorns such adventitious helps to the goal
he aims at, well content
To put his faith in a surer way of crashing the
doors of Parliament.
Let wild reformers rant and rage, demagogues
thunder whate’er they wist,
Little he cares if he gets his name at the top
of the ballot-paper list.
It’s a queer development, verily, a mighty
quaint and curious touch,
And one that hardly credits the free and inde-
pendent with overmuch
Ability to exercise, weighing and choosing as
else they might,
The voter’s hard-won privilege, the freeman’s
immemorial right.
They’d think it a joke in other lands, I fancy,
but it seems in this
Neck of the woods, whatever else a would-be
Senator may miss
In qualifications for his job, he can face the
polling blithe and gay
And take a ticket on himself—if only his
name begins with A.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Wodgil”: The estate of Walter Kings-
mill, sometime President of the West-
ralian Upper House and of the Senate,
figured in a queer Probate Court case
in Sydney last week. “Kingy,” an en-
thusiastic amateur naturalist, always had
the notion that possums could be bred
for profit on islands in Westralian rivers
or off the coast, and he backed a venture
on a Blackwood River island, his partner
being a former Belgian Consul, Ed.
Antoine. The difficulty was to keep the
possums on the island ; they persisted in
swimming to the shore and losing them-
selves in the big bush. Finally they all
left, and the fur farm was abandoned.
Kingsmill died in 1935 owing Antoine
(now also dead) £327, and Antoine’s
executors claimed this amount from
Kingsmill’s executors —a proportion
really,' for Kingsmill’s assets were valued
at £447 and his debts at £566. The
Judge ruled that the claim was statute-
barred. Most amiable of politicians,
Kingsmill held good positions for nearly
40 years, with one brief break, but he
had no money-sense, and spent his salary
almost as fast as it came in. The Gov-
ernment made an allowance to his widow,
who did not long survive him. It was
remarked at the time that the authorities
went to unusual lengths to satisfy them-
selves that the lady was without means.
They had, it transpired, granted a sub-
stantial pension to the widow of another
politician, only to discover that he was
a wealthy man.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: J. H. M. Abbott’s
article on the Sobraon (B. 29/ 3/’39)
evokes the memory of a visit in appren-
tice days to a cousin who was a cadet
in her ; no apprentices were allowed to
infest that stately craft. Only the con-
sciousness of six months’ sea-seniority
an d a brand-new reefer saved me from
‘™" S a feeing of Inferiority at the
sight ol such overwhelming sea luxury.
Her deck was a perfect farm of milking
cows, sheep, pigs, cattle and poultry ;
fresh v«ge&l£ g Were carried it? special
rooms, and even the cadets got fresh
bread and butter daily! On the rare
occasions on which our skipper deigned
"Quick! Make me look like this."
to refer to us denizens of the half-deck
it was as those young unpublishables.
Those lordly lads lived in real rooms with
chests of drawers and wash-basins, and
officially were young gentlemen. But
they got a first-rate sea training all the
same. Now the famous Devitt Moore
houseflag flies only over Pangbourne Col-
lege and its 202 sea apprentices fl’m
sorry, cadets!) on shore training.
* * * *
“Uramao”: The latest Maoriland jour-
nal to fall by the wayside is the Timaru
“Post,” an evening journal run by the
people who control the “Herald” of the
same town. The rapidity of transport
that enables city journals to be rushed
all over the country is blamed for the
“Post’s” demise, plus mounting costs of
production, increased wages and heavy
taxation, but its doom was sounded as
soon as it began to tell the same political
tale as its morning contemporary.
"It don't soot me jigger. I prefer the Raglan."
“Ex-Mister”: The disappearance of
the Waratah and her 211 souls off
South Africa in July, 1909, only nine
months after her completion under
Lloyd’s highest classification, and on her
second voyage, has never been explained,
but at least two other mid-ocean sudden
founderings suggest what probably
occurred. One was the Trevessa, whose
holds filled rapidly, and necessitated the
most adventurous boat voyage since
Bligh’s. Another was the Shahzada, a
modern steamer of 3237 tons, recently
re-surveyed, which left Calcutta on July
13, 1927, and early next morning foun-
dered in the Bay of Bengal in a calm
sea, so rapidly that boats could not be
lowered or men called up from below.
Four minutes after the chief officer had
taken a star observation from the bridge
the sea was pouring over her starboard
rails. Only proximity of other ships
enabled 50 of her crew of 71 to be saved.
A Marine Court could find no reason
for it.
* * * *
“De Fine”: Whoever persuaded Vic-
torian Premier Dunstan that 15,000,000
tons of charcoal might be gathered up
where the Victorian bushfires raged has
a sense of humor. There is plenty of
good charcoal about after a good fire.
Country blacksmiths go out and collect
enough to keep the forges going through
the winter. But 15,000,000 tons would
mean a ton of charcoal to the acre over
nearly 25,000 square miles, more than a
quarter of the area of the State, and
nothing like that was burned over,
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Stealing rides on
trains cannot be a particularly pleasant
method of travel at any time, but three
lads, collected in Brisbane from a Sydney
mail train, have decided that they would
sooner walk than repeat their experience.
Two had waited at Dungog (N.S.W.)
on a heavily-raining night, and made
for the corpse chamber at the rear of
the guard’s van. Moans proceeding from
within scared them, but the lights of an
approaching train obliged them to shove
in, somehow, against a body which occu-
pied most of the 6ft. by 3ft. space. Ten-
sion relaxed when it remarked: “Tight
fit, mates!” and announced that it had
begun its funeral at Newcastle, but the
subsequent 461-mile journey was a night-
mare. They lay sideways on an iron
grid, could not sleep, were nearly suf-
focated, and at every stop expected a
coffin to be pushed in on top of them.
They had Bd. between them, and a kindly
Brisbane Beak made it 24 hours, which
meant three meals apiece and beds.
* * * *
“Lyndo”: To statues not too happily
placed add that of Queen Victoria in
Queen’s-square, Sydney. The royal lady
has contemptuously turned her back on
the city and the near-by church and law
courts, and, looking haughtily past an
exclusive social club on one side and
Hyde Park on the other, has fixed her
august gaze on the only building that
ever had a chance to share the right to
“royal” as a prefix, to wit, the ex-Mint.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: In the interests
of common decency I have been re-
arranging my bookshelves. It is really
surprising to realise what happens in
literary circles if one does not maintain
a regular chaperonage. Sylvia Scarlett
was snuggling up to Tom Brown at
Oxford, no fit company for that rather
tediously virtuous Young English Gentle-
man. Jane Austen and the Baron de
Marbot, gay soldier of Napoleon, had
contrived a meeting from one bookcase
—hers, I regret to say —to another. That
Jacques Casanova should adjoin Last
Days with Cleopatra was not, perhaps,
surprising, but the lady was well able
to look after herself when she wanted
to, and they would have many subjects
of mutual interest. Why Tom Cringle’s
Log should seek Lady Audley’s Secret
is puzzling, but even the most respectable
Victorian lady of title needs protection
against bold, bad sailor boys, so Tom
goes back to his proper berth between
the Cruise of the Cachalot and Hakluyt’s
Voyages.
* * * *
“Visitor”: Whyalla (S.A.), the port of
Iron Knob from which the B.H.P. quar-
ries its ore, has always been worried by
the absence of deep water close in. The
co. is accordingly well on with the job
of reclaiming some 75 acres from the sea
for a blast furnace to stand alongside
a wharf with a 27ft. depth of water.
Incidentally, S.A. insists that, being 200
miles up Spencer’s Gulf, this will be far
safer from any possible enemy attack
than any other Australian blast furnace.
The reclamation work is being done
mainly by the big dredger, English-made,
which Melbourne Harbor Trust bought
from Bombay. Estimated cost of the
work, a million and a half j date to be
ready, some time in 1940.
A WORD TO WOMEN.
“To succeed in politics a woman must be as wise
as a serpent and as gentle as a dove. Woman
candidate for Waverley.
She must have all the wisdom and cunning,
I take it—ascribed to a snake,
The woman who’d be in the running
Where statesmen their tasks undertake.
And, atop of her qualities mental,
To give her the requisite shove
To the front she must needs be as gentle
And mild as a dove.
Not “harmless” —the Biblical lection
Of the label applied to the bird
Employed in the present connection,
It’s clear, would be ultra-absurd.
’Twill be half of her job to be harming
The creeds she abhors and eschews,
But she’ll settle opponents with charming
And Columbine coos.
She’ll need points, the political madam,
In common, one well may believe,
With the reptile which agonised Adam
(With the co-operation of Eve).
But her hands, like the claws of Grimalkin,
Must be sheathed in a velvety glove;
Whatever she feels, she must talk in
The tones of a dove.
The woman who goes M.L.A.-ing
Should never get worried or wild;
She must say what she has to be saying
Like a gentle and well-mannered child.
She must firmly forswear termagancy
And never aggrieve or offend . . ..
Though it’s scarce through such methods, I
fancy,
That England’s redoubtable “Nancy”
Has kept up her end!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


L'Tr/
You'll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
«***
m
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
E 1866
k
POLITICAL POINTS
September and April were Lyons’s
fateful months. In September, 1879, he
was born ; in September, 1923, he cam-
paigned for the Tasmanian election which
resulted in his becoming Premier; in
September, 1929, he resigned from the
Tasmanian Assembly to enter the Com-
monwealth Parliament (dissolved on Sep-
tember 16); in September, 1934, his
U.A.P. was returned at the polls, with
himself as P.M.; and September, 1937,
saw the dissolution of Parliament and
the beginnings of another victorious cam-
paign. In April, 1914, Lyons became
a Minister for the first time ; in April,
1915, he married (the best day’s work
he ever did), and, his party having been
defeated, he resigned office in April,
“Hees face-a —it annoy me!”
1916. And the crisis of September, 1938,
started the worry that killed him in April,
1939.
In the retrospect, it might have been
better for Lyons himself had Parliament
been reassembled in February. It could
have discussed constitutional reform
(now, no doubt, to be shelved indefi-
nitely), nor would an occasional de-
bate on foreign affairs in a familiar set-
ting have taken so much out of the poor
P.M. as did those broadcast speeches of
a plainly agitated man. The considerate
Curtin would not have added to his
worries.
This paper was the first to mention
Archie Cameron as a possible P.M.
Lang’s “Century” and the Heffron Labor
paper, divided on almost every other sub-
ject, followed suit. Now “S. M. Herald’s”
Canberra correspondent draws attention
to “Mr. Cameron’s Claims,” allowing
that, “in a Parliament where leadership
is a rare quality,” the man from Barker
“stands out as an impressive and unusual
figure.”
If there is one thing certain about con-
temporary Europe it is that Russian Com-
munism is hated from Finland to Portu-
gal, and from to Spain to Greece, leaving
out France. And if there is one thing
certain about France it is that it
needs national unity as much as it did
in 1914. Yet last week its crazy Com-
munist party tried to prevent the re-elec-
tion of President Lebrun. It put up its
own candidate, the notorious Cachin,
and Deputies and Senators gave him 74
votes. The immediate result was that
Franco signed the Anti-Comintern Pact.
Before Lyons died Forgan Smith said
he wouldn’t stand for the Griffith Fed-
eral seat, rendered vacant by Baker’s
tragic exit. Baker’s last majority was
reduced to 324 on a largely sectarian vote.
That probably means that there will be a
Protestant Labor candidate.
Perhaps Forgan Smith is deterred by the
experiences of other Queensland Premiers
who went into Commonwealth politics,
Dawson became an original Senator, but
by 1906 he had quarrelled with the party
and, left off the ticket, he bottomed the
poll. Ryan transferred to West Sydney
in 1919, but in two years and eight
months was dead—at 45. Theodore stood
for Herbert in 1925 and was beaten by
Dr. Nott, now practising his profession
at Canberra. Bill Mahony gave up his
Dailey (N.S.W.) seat to Theo. in Feb-
ruary, 1927, three months after Bill had
made his pile by backing the Cup winner.
The end of 1931 saw Theodore a bad
third in a field of five, defeated not only
by Lang Labor s Rosevear, still the man
m possession, but by a U.A.P. nominee.
And, like Dawson, he never came back,
The National Council, “composed of
the Prime Minister and the various
Premiers,” is to have a Secretariat of its
very own. That, of course, means a
grand new department with an Under-
Secretary and an Under-Secretary’s sec-
retary, and, as the thing grows and mul-
tiplies, an Under-Secretary’s secretary’s
secretary.
Parkes knew the habits of Government
clerks when he said that “Give one a
table, a chair and a file, and he will
erect them into a department in no
time.” The pomp of provincial politi-
cians has accelerated this process ; as a
result Premiers’ Departments have shot
up everywhere, and the Prime Minister’s
Department has become a lordly concern.
Westralian Labor has a lot to thank
the State electoral boundaries for. It got
its first big majority in 1911 on the cry
that the Wilson Government was rigging
them. In point of fact, the arrangement
of electorates has so consistently favored
Labor that it can gain or retain office
with a minority vote. The “Sunday
Times” has worked it out that 94,456
out of 204,908 votes polled on March
18 gave it 27 Assembly seats, whereas
64,753 votes returned only nine National-
ists.
Before Colonel Beck, of Poland, en-
tered upon his talks with Lord Halifax
it was thoughtfully suggested by a Lon-
don correspondent that the Dominions
could promote the harmony thereof by
offering to take 50,000 Polish Jews per
year. “The noblest answer unto such is
perfect stillness when they bawl” —and
that was the answer.
“The Age,” which never fdrgets that
it is Australian, though it may sometimes
imagine that Australia’s northern boun-
dary is the Murray, was worried from
the first over the pledge to Poland. Syd-
ney “D.T.” was at first enthusiastic.
The democracies have taken the initiative
against the aggressive Powers. They have
cried “halt” to the march of the Nazi
jackboot across Europe. The cry should
rally the wavering smaller European States
behind them.
It should, no doubt, but the indications
are that Hitler has got “the wavering
smaller European States” scared stiff.
“The International Peace Campaign,
the Spanish Relief Committee and the
N.S.W. Council for Relief of Spanish
Distress” have invited the Australian
Government to take an unspecified num-
ber of refugees, presumably Reds, from
Spain. They undertake to place “adults”
in “suitable occupations.” There are
thousands of Australians who would like
to be placed in “suitable occupations,”
but evidently foreign comrades come
first.
The price of milk is down a halfpenny
a quart in Melbourne. Flush season or
drought, it never falls in Sydney, where
bottled milk is Bd. a quart. With the
most copious supply in the world to draw
from, Sydney has the dearest milk in
the world, and this will always be the
case until the Milk Board is deprived
of its unconscionable powers.
Under the Treaty of London, which
brought Italy into the war, the Italians
were promised, among other things, “all
the islands of the Adriatic,” except four,
“Northern Dalmatia, down to Cape
Palanka, Valona and an enclave round
it,” and “a protectorate over Central
Albania.” So Lloyd George recalls in
his Truth About the Peace Treaties. It
is no excuse for what happened last week,
but it is illuminating.
In 1917 an Italian commander pro-
claimed the independence of Albania, also
known as Shquiperia. In 1919 the
Albanians fought Italians and Yugoslavs;
next year the independence of Albania
was proclaimed again, and Albania joined
the League. In 1925 it was proclaimed a
republic ; in 1929 Ahmed Beg Zogu, who
had been President of the republic, was
proclaimed king. Previously he had
signed a defensive alliance with Italy, to
last till 1947. The population at the last
census (1930) was 1,003,124, 688,280
being Moslems, like King Zog. What
the Moslem world thinks of the latest
Italian descent on Albania hasn’t been
set on record, but it can be understood.
The favorite recreation of the
Albanians is oiling their guns. Until last
week, that of Ghazi, King of Iraq, was
driving cars at 90 m.p.h. Last week
Ghazi died on one of these excursions,
and an Iraqi mob murdered the British
representative. The Government has
apologised. This is considered a great
concession to the conventions East of
Suez.
In warning Westminister that he would
on no account send soldiers to Eastern
Europe, the Canadian Prime Minister was
running true to form. In May last year
he issued a proclamation of non-inter-
vention in the Sino-Japanese conflict.
Correspondents who dish up foreign news
for the Empire—many of them are
Americans—didn’t bother to mention it.
“An expansion of credit to finance de-
fence needs and provide full employment
for every able-bodied worker in Australia”
is demanded by Stevens and his dutiful
“Sun.” Stevens’s defence programme
for N.S.W. has not been published, but
it is understood to include the Sutherland-
Cronulla railway (estimated loss £22,000
p.a.), the Sandy Hollow-Maryvale rail-
way (estimated loss £40,000 p.a.), 250
more Olympic swimming-pools and an-
other £5,000,000 for sand-shifting, foot-
path-chipping and scenic roads for hikers.
Lang Labor, whose four-A ticket pre-
vailed at the last N.S.W. Senate elections,
may run a three-A ticket next time.
Ashley, the fourth A, who was elected
for three years, is after another nomina-
tion, and with him are three other As.
In a total of 19, there are five Bs, three
Cs, one D, three Fs and two Gs. One
of the ironies of this alphabetical busi-
ness is that prior to 1937 N.S.W. had
in 36 years sent only two As to the
Senate: Percy Phipps Abbott in 1925
and Macartney Abbott in 1934. Two Ws
(Walker, 1900-13) and Watson had pre-
ceded them and so had five Gs (Gould,
1901-17, Gray, Gardiner, Grant and
Green).


DECISION DISPUTED.
“Keen interest was taken in the judging of the Clydesdales.”


THE NEW ZEALAND
INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in New Zealand).
Established 1859.
Capital £1,500,000.
Funds invested in Australia,
£1,620,976.
All Classes of FIRE, MARINE
and
ACCIDENT INSURANCES
effected at Lowest Current
Rates.
Head. Office for New South Wales:
79-81 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
J. HARRISON, Manager.
Tel.: 8W1931.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
SHARE PRICES—WHY THEY FLUCTUATE
N.Z. EXCHANGE
GOLD—TIN—COPPER
WHAT’S GOOD TO BUY AND SELL
April Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/ - PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL..
Follow the hundreds who hove
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P'O, SypNEy
TELEPHONE: B 5294
PERSONAL ITEM S
J- A. Lyons’s political career was
unique in its way. Till he was 30 he was
an assistant teacher in Tasmanian schools.
At 35 he was Treasurer of Tasmania and
leader of the Tasmanian Labor party.
With one year’s break, during which
Scullin made a show of leading him, he
was head of a party continuously from
J. A. LYONS.
1916. to 1939, and the head of Govern-
ments (Tas., 1923-1928 ; Commonwealth,
December, 1931-April, 1939) for nearly
13 out of his last 20 years. In a political
career of 30 years he held Ministerial
office for 15. Though he did not marry
till 36, he had a family of 11, and was
an enthusiastic home-lover. Personally,
he was quiet, unassuming, courteous, but
very few of his associates achieved close
intimacy with him. When he was Premier
of Tasmania, it was no uncommon thing
to see him walking bareheaded across
the square in Hobart to consult some
official whose work he would not dis-
turb by sending for him. In his younger
days he was an athlete, but a serious rail-
way accident ten years ago gave him a
limp which limited his exercise. “I often
wish,” he said last September during the
Czech crisis, “that I could take my bike
and get away to the hills. I did all my
young political thinking on a bike.” That
was the measure of the man’s simplicity.
Red Page contributor Alan D. Meikle
has returned to Melbourne after an
absence of six years pushing a freelance
pen in distracted Europe. He found
London no place for a writing man and
tried Majorca, but the Spanish war started
and he moved to Brussels, where he found
only one topic of conversation —Hitler.
Meikle has had a dozen books put be-
tween covers by English publishers, in-
cluding The Pilgrimage of Peer, a novel,
and Pemmican Pete, a book for the kids.
His critical analysis of Eugene O’Neill’s
plays got an interested reader in the
American playwright himself.
Frank Silverman, now doing a lot of
work as general secretary of the Aus-
tralian Jewish Welfare Society—it was
through him that the application of 96
refugees from Germany and Austria to
be allowed to enlist in the militia came
—is an ex-Digger. He served with the
Light Horse in Palestine, and because
of his knowledge of Hebrew and Arabic
was put on Allenby’s staff as interpreter.
An enthusiastic Zionist, he took his dis-
charge in Palestine, where he started busi-
ness, but the call of Australia was too
strong for him. He runs an orchard and
farm near Sydney, and does voluntary
work for many good causes.
When Maoriland Parliament assembles
this year the Speaker of the Legislative
Council will step down from the lofty
perch he has occupied for 21 years. Wil-
liam Carncross was born at Bendigo
(Vic.) 84 years ago, went to M.L. when
a lad and, half a century back, emerged
from that nursery of statesmen the com-
posing-room of a newspaper a full-
blown editor-proprietor of country
papers and politician. Flis connection
with M.L. politics has been unbroken for
49 years. Represented Taieri 1890-1902,
retired and was called to the Leg. Coun-
cil, where he still flourishes. A knight-
hood came his way in 1922. His 21
years as Speaker constitutes an Empire
record.
Next spring Melbourne’s fancy will
turn to carnival, and the organiser of the
musical, floral and
sporting frenzy will be
E. J. Gravestock, late
general manager for
Victoria of J.C.W.
Gravestock organised
the Cavalcade of Em-
pire Pageant at Sydney
Town Hall at the time
of George Five’s jubilee.
He came to Australia
in 1912 as secretary of
the Quinlan Grand
Opera Co., and has
since brought a whole
host of virtuosi and
theatrical companies
here. The £750-p.a. job
will be a fixture if the
carnival becomes an
annual affair.
Peter Laing, who at
78 moves from Mount
Pleasant (S.A.) to
Sm i t hfield (N.S.W.),
told his farewellers that
as a child he tended
cows and goats in the
now busy Victoria-
square, Adelaide, saw
the Duke of Edinburgh
lay the foundation-stone
of Adelaide G.P.O. in
1867, and carried the
spade when the Gover-
nor of Victoria turned
the first sod of the
G.B.S. FALKINER.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Portland-to-Hamilton railway line. Also
he carried horseback mails between
Heywood and Dartmoor (Vic.). He
declares he often went to the store
in Euroa on errands for the Kelly
gang: “Ned Kelly always gave me
sixpence or a shilling.”
In Melbourne on furlough is Dr.
Michael Neylon, British Consular Agent
at Assouan, Egypt. He has lived amongst
the Arab tribes of the Upper Nile for 30
years, except for five years of war service.
Born in Victoria, he was at a military
camp at Queenscliff 52 years ago with
a corporal named John Monash.
Sir Basil Hume Thomson, passed over
at 77, achieved notoriety in his declining
years by reason of a Hyde Park snooper’s
accusation, but he was a man of many
parts, and during his long public career
earned many rewards. The son of an
Archbishop of York, educated at
Eton and Oxford, he entered the
Colonial Service, and one of his
earliest appointments was a term as
Governor of Tonga. Then he was
governor first of Dartmoor Prison
and then of Wormwood Scrubs, his
police service culminating with six
years as Assistant Commissioner of
Metropolitan Police. In the first
post-war years he acted as Director
of Intelligence, a job that took him
to Poland. In one of his many
books he tells that the Poles, though
they spared their rank-and-file
Bolshie prisoners, shot Commissars
out of hand. He was knighted in
1919. Among his literary exercises
was a series of detective, stories,
very brightly written.
Franc Sadleir Falkiner, born of tht
Falkiners, of Beechwood House, Co. Tip-
perary, and of the versatile Irish family
of pioneering and literary Sadleirs, came
to Victoria in 1853 and later founded the
Boonoke merino stud, near Conargo
(N.S.W.). He passed on the manage-
ment to his son Franc Brereton Sadleir,
who had been educated at Geelong and
(in sheep) at Boonoke. F. 8.5., who was
to become M.H.R. for Riverina and
Hume, and member of the Central
Wool Committee during the war,
branched out on his own account
with Haddon Rig, Warren (N.S.W.), and
Foxlow, Bungendore, after helping to
build up Boonoke, Moonbria, Widgiewa,
Wanganella and Tuppal. The final refine-
ment of the dynasty, here pictured, is
George Brereton Sadleir Falkiner, 32
years old, carrying on the work of his
father and grandfather at Haddon Rig,
whose stud merinos vie among the world’s
best with the other family products of
Boonoke North and Widgiewa, managed
by Uncle Otway Falkiner. But’where his
grandfather leant to the bullock-dray as
a pioneering vehicle, G.B.S. is an en-
thusiastic flying man, one of the few
graziers to hold a commercial license,
He is a councillor of the N.S.W. Sheep
Breeders’ Association, a university man,
and finds time for golf at Royal Sydney,
H. A. M. Campbell newly-appointed
editor of Melbourne “Age” in succession
H.A.M. CAMPBELL.
to L. V. Biggs, started his career on the
Inky Way on Victorian country papers,
gravitated to Perth “Daily News,” left
that for active service in France, returned
to Melbourne “Herald” and finally ended
up on the Syme journal. He was “Age”
Federal roundsman, led its Federal Par-
liamentary staff before the exodus to Can-
berra, and succeeded George Cockerill as
chief leader-writer. An efficient jour-
nalist with a clear and logical mind and
an ingratiating literary style, he is, at
45, the youngest editor the “Age” has
had.
Rupert Walter Hornabrook, a small
man with a bright eye and a lively step,
was born in Adelaide, and in his 63
years has traversed a large area of
this planet. Educated in London and at
St. Peter’s, Adelaide, he took his degrees
in surgery and medicine at Adelaide Uni.
in 1896. He went to London, added
M.R.C.S. to his degrees, and the India
Office sent him to Bombay as special
Plague Officer, in which capacity he went
thence to the Transvaal, where he was a
medical officer in the Natal Mounted
Rifles and the Royal Medical Corps. He
was at Elandslaagte and at the siege of
Ladysmith, and returned to Australia in
1901 to marry the daughter of Frederick
Sargood, first Commonwealth Minister
for Defence. Hornabrook was in the
Great War as surgeon on H.M.A.S. Aus-
tralia, and in France and Belgium. Since
then he has been in private practice in
Melbourne, but has found time to visit
Europe, Japan, Korea, Manchukuo,
North and Central China, Inner Mon-
golia, Hokkaido and Siam. He doesn’t
think that the Japanese have any designs
on Australia at the moment, but reckons
we’ll lose a good neighbor if we annoy
them.
Andrew D. Young is one of the new
£1250 a year directors of Cellulose Aust.,
Ltd., a wood-pulp concern in which the
S.A. Government is investing £25,000.
Chairman of the Stock Exchange and
director of Savery’s Pianos, S.A. Cold
Stores and the State Bank, this ex-
Caledonian chief’s pet hobby is presid-
ing at the S.A. Gilsullivan Society’s opera
socials. He starred as a vocalist recently
when he taught members how to sing
“Auld Lang Syne” with rhythmic move-
ments in Highland style.


smmt
| ASK please
I for "THREE-THMES
I niniiir
kmimi
V>
k
VXViVM
mm
m v
s*s
Kr-S
• m •■• M l»i M i :
wmmmmrnwmm
m
m
torn
Zh
W////
(
m
m
■m
m
m
ml
m
1
m
m
V,
1
mm
L
ts
i
win
i
55S
'M
mm.
N\?i
i
&\\\\\
\W
181
Ml
///
i
W&yiB§s
Igljgfgl
!'>
sJSs
111
HI
SBSSSS
\S
'XsjA
sitw
W
k
w.w®
i
mu#
“absolutely
k
ķ
Cork Tipped and Plain, 9-6 d.: 18-1/-: 27-1/6. Also Flat Fifties, Square Hundreds, and Round Air-tight Fifties.
9335 F-3-9


ABORIGINALITIES
“Am I too late to enter my darling in the Scotch-terrier section?”
“Old-timer”: The Murray River was
hidden in one of those white fogs of
early spring, and the skipper of the
Invincible, feeling his way towards Mil-
dura, leaned out of the wheelhouse try-
ing to see through the white blanket
and ready for anything. Suddenly rails
loomed out of the fog, with a figure
leaning carelessly against them. “Hey!”
roared the alarmed skipper, “what inell
you doing! Don’t you know the river
rule? Take y’ blanky boat out o’ that!”
The figure remained calm. “Boat be
damned,” it said dispassionately; “this
is the wharf at Mildura!”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “The Royal Agricultural
Society of N.S.W. is confident that it
has successfully organised a rodeo which
will capture the spirit of the back country
to even a greater extent than last year.”
—Somerville, secretary of R.A.S., speak-
ing. It will be news to Australians that
steer-riding contests, wild-cow milking
ditto, American cowgirls, Red Indian
bareback races, chuck-wagon ditto,
and bulldogging are typical of our
outback. All we need to make the
programme complete is a gum-chewing
championship, a pole-sitting contest, a
long-spitting trial, a hog-calling event,
and a bathing-beauty parade.
* * * *
“Tired Tim”: Our manager brought
home a newly-born jumbuck and offered
it to young Alf of the calves with an in-
quiring lift of the eyebrow. The orphan
was reared on the bucket, and in the full-
ness of time turned out with a draft of
weaners. Although sheep were running
in the same paddock that lamb failed to
recognise its species, and at the approach
of the woollies would kick up a pair of
heels and frisk away in exact and ludi-
crous imitation of its foster brethren —an
attitude, by the way, reminiscent of those
pictures you’ve seen of a chamois in mid-
air on the Alps. The boss sentenced the
unnatural beastie to the kitchen, with
mum the word so far as the dairy lads
were concerned. Alf, as usual, backed
in his cart for more: “My, missus, that’s
good veal! ”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: When we first took
up a section of the old Earliston station,
between the Earliston and Mistake rivers,
out from Laverton (W.A.), some 40 years
ago, we could just distinguish traces of
what appeared to be rough brush fences
or drives. They were constructed in zig-
zag form, and were evidently the work
of the blacks, to whom I appealed for
information. An old buck explained that
the drives were used to trap the murraroo,
a type of kangaroo-rat, once very plenti-
ful. At each point on the zig side of
the zigzag a small opening was left
through which the murraroo, beaten up
by the tribe, bounded straight into the
expertly wielded waddy of a hunter
crouched behind a small bush. The
method must have produced some good
feasts, because years before we arrived
the animal had become too scarce to be
worth hunting.
* * * *
“Cocky-I”: He was an old cocky, and
had milked thousands of cows by hand,
but for a bit of comfort in his old age
he bought a second-hand milking-
machine. Sometimes it puzzled him a bit.
After a few weeks’ work he and the hand
dismantled the whole outfit for inspec-
tion and the usual clean-up. The machine
was one of those fitted with an air
chamber (or vacuum tank) to keep the
pressure from fluctuating. This also came
in for inspection. At the bottom was
an accumulation of putrid milky water
which should not have been there. The
old man didn’t quite grasp the situation,
but to be on the safe side he emptied the
mixture into a bucket, carefully saving
every drop. When the chamber was
thoroughly scoured out the hand wanted
to know if he’d throw “this stinkin’ stuff
out.” “Throw it nowheres, idiot!” “Wot-
yer goin’ to do with it?” “Put it back
where it come from, stoopid. That’s wot
yer dpes with anything yer takes from a
machine.” “But it’s only stinkin’ milk,
boss,” insisted the hand. “Look ’ere,
lad,” the cocky replied, “that’s a special
solution, and this ’ere machine won’t milk
cows without it. Back it goes!”
* * * *
“Mei”: Bill had set a hen, but as she
had been on the nest for a fortnight
before he put the eggs under her' she
grew tired of the job and left the nest
a week before the chickens were due.
“I’ll fix her,” said Bill. He tied two half-
bricks on to the ends of a short piece of
string and put it over the hen’s back so
that she could not get up. I asked him
later how the idea had worked. “Not
much good,” said Bill. “She broke all
the eggs. But,” he added brightly, “it
cured her of clucking!”
* * * #
“Reef Dodger” (Noumea): In Mela-
nesia waterspouts are common, but rarely
do they touch land, generally sheering
sideways round an island, probably be-
cause of side- and up-currents of air
caused by high mountains close to the
coast. On one island, at the aperitif hour,
an argument arose about these pheno-
mena and became heated. Bill, a neigh-
bor of 20 years’ residence in the group
and the local walking encyclopaedia and
self-appointed final authority on all mat-
ters, was appealed to. He replied, “They
are only a thin mist of sea vapor—no body
in them at all. Nothing would happen
if one hit a cutter as long as the sails
weren’t up.” That settled the argument
—as far as Bill was concerned, anyway.
A month later business took me back
that way, and on approaching land I
thought Bill must have discovered gold
on his property, as it looked as if exten-
sive sluicing had been in progress. Half
the hills at the back and about 2000 of
his coconut palms had been washed away,
merely the result of a million or two
tons of seawater dropped by a water-
spout when it broke on reaching the
land near his plantation. During that
evening’s conversation waterspouts
weren’t mentioned, but volcanoes were,
and Bill ventured another final opinion.
I am wondering what his place will look
like next time I go along that way.
* * * *
“Drone”: I’ve seen English bees make
their hive in a crevice of rock and in
the splinter of a lightning-struck tree;
but the queerest place I ever saw a swarm
at work was in the trash of standing
sugarcane. They had bound dead leaves
together, cemented them with wax, and
had a couple of small combs in full
operation. Though the bees were busy,
with cells formed and good progress
being made, they hadn’t started to put
any honey in them when the stalk of
cane was cut and their home was sent
crashing to the ground.
* * * *
“Towser”: “Valerin” can have his
“ ‘handy’ dog that’s mostly mong” (B.
22/3/’39). Give me the Australian sheep-
dog. It is bred for its stamina, for hard
work, including long hours without a
drink, many miles over burning ground,
a track over burrs. Does “V.” seriously
claim that poms, pointers, greyhounds
are any good at that sort of stuff? I’ve
seen pointers and greyhounds working,
though I’ll admit “V.” has it over me if
he’s seen a pom handling sheep. The
only way the pointer or the greyhound
would work was when the ground was
wet, the air damp and the grass green
after rain. Each of them, too, had to
have a bit in its mouth to prevent biting.
The work was just what one would
expect from a mong. After all, would
you expect a sheep-dog to be any good
at pointing quail or coursing in an en-
closure?
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Who says that the old
bush recitation is scorned by this car-
and-wireless outback generation? Only
last night, in company with an enthusi-
astic audience, mostly young, I received
the full voltage of “The Squatter’s
Daughter” from a youth who really saw
himself as the case-hardened young stock-
man whom the proud old squatter found
kissing the girl from the idle Upper Ten.
Proudly defying the world to say that he
was a crimson cur, he bade farewell to
his mates while the very station dogs
howled on their chains for misery at
losing him, and went on the wallaby
where good men often go. The jackeroo
toff bragged of his rank and relations
and drove her tandem across the plain,
assorting the reins with gold-studded
fingers until he basely abandoned her in
the bushfire, “clutching the buggy wheels
as a last resource.” But the c.-h.y. stock-
man swam the gulfing waters to her
rescue, the proud old squatter renounced
the Upper Ten, and, in spite of the flames
still roaring on the property, gave her
to the working hero, his only and best-
loved daughter.
* * * *
“M 8”: “And what’s growing there?”
asked the charming city visitor, indicat-
ing a green patch. “Swede turnips,”
said Dad. “I s’pose y’ know what they
are?” “Oh, yes,” gushed she ; “that’s
what suede shoes an’ gloves an’ things
are made of, isn’t it?”
* * *
“Mulyan”: In big-timbered regions
the hollow log can be adapted to as many
uses as treeforks and the übiquitous kero-
sene-tin. A selector on the Richmond
River (N.S.W.) made two water-casks
with 6ft. lengths of a gum log by fitting
a pine bottom, coated with pitch, into the
big end of each. Two washing tubs, a
meat-cask, dog-kennel, coops for sitting
hens and several fern- and flowerpots
were got out of the next cuts. Sections
near the top, split in two, furnished pig-
and fowl-troughs. He also made bins for
holding grain, flour and chaff and feed-
troughs for horses out of hollow logs.
In the creek where he dipped water a
wide butt was sunk, forming a good well
that could not fill with sand. From clean
hollow limbs he made buckets. This
man would haul a hollow log miles to
his home to be cut up in his spare time.
* * if. *
“Tired Tim”: Dan was 25, the corn
was in, and the breadwinner didn’t think
he ran any great risk when he went to
work on the roads in order to keep a
large and shiftless family in idleness at
home. Yet there was always an odd
chance, so before leaving he led his first-
born aside. “Now, Danny, me boy, keep
that corn well scuffled while I’m away.”
The lout promised, and to all appear-
ances kept his word. The crop throve,
the cobs swelled and ripened, and not
until dad had actually started pulling
was the awful truth revealed. A chain
from the headland the golden harvest
ended and the weeds began. “A char-
acter, that Dan,” was the old man’s com-
ment as he told the tale.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: When we got out that
list of hard yakka (B. 29/3/’39) me an’
Mat looked at stone-napping having
done some on Riverina granite at Junee
(N.S.W.) in midsummer, on contract;
but we excluded it because, though the
first two days were hard, an old-timer
gave us a few hints that took most of
the hard work out of it. You don’t have
to hit your stone hard to crack it; fol-
low the grain and it’ll crack like mallee
roots do when you follow their grain.
Our list was of jobs that keep on being
hard, no matter how long y’re at ’em.
* * * *
“Weka”: If “Puffinus” (B. 29/3/’39)
had observed the Maoriland pukeko, the
blue-plumaged, red-legged fowl that in-
habits northern swamps, he would have
found that their sentries, not content with
merely watching, build a platform on
which to stand. Years ago pukekos in
unusual numbers invaded the Waikato
swamps, and found much to occupy them
among oat crops near by. What per-
turbed farmers was not the amount of
grain they ate, the birds being interested
in insects also, but their habit of bending
the stalks, as they did the rushes of their
natural habitat, to make a safe obser-
vation platform. Standing on this the
sentry was always able to give the feed-
ing flock ample warning of the approach
of a suspected enemy. Not that the
farmers dealt drastically with the hand-
some birds. The pukeko is rare and
rigidly protected.
BASE INGRATITUDE.
“Too many coves in this ’ere world, y’ll find,”
said Mick the Screw,
“Ain’t got no gratitude at all for anythink y’
do;
The cows’ll take it all an’, while some empty
thanks y’ll earn, .
Y’ll whistle when y’r wantin’ somethin’ done,
say, in return.
“The worst I ever see o’ that was down at
Bobtail Flat:
Two trappin’ jokers come there —‘Strike Me’
Steve an’ Joe the Rat —
An’ this ’ere Joe, a scrawny bloke ’oo kids
’imself a bit,
Starts trackin’ with a tart down there, an’
thinks ’e’s made a hit.
“But wot Joe doesn’t know is that ’er ole
man’s got a down
On sooters; that ’e’s fought—an’ beat—near
ev’ry coot in town.
One Saturdee Joe’s maggin’ to the tab outside
the store;
"Er father comes along, pipes Joe, then inter
’im ’e tore.
“’E made a mess o’ Joe all right; ’e dam’
near broke ’is conk;
For days Joe gits around the traps just like
a spavined donk.
Keen on revenge, ’e kidded Steve —a toby with
’is mitts —
To clean this fightin’ father up; ’e’ll sorta
feel ’e’s quits.
“ ’E gives ’is mate a knock-down to the skirt,
then does a bunk:
’Er ole man come along, an’ Steve makes out
’e’s in a funk — ,
But when ’er parent swung a right to open
the dispute
Steve side-steps in a flash an’ knocks ’im
rotten with a beaut.
“But ’ere’s the queerest thing about it: when
’er dad comes to,
’E don’t fly orf the ’andle like y’d think a
bloke’d do;
Instead, ’e seems quite proud o’ Steve an’
shouts ’im to a booze,
An’ then insists ’e visits ’em —Steve’s one ’oo
can’t refuse.
“It ain’t too long before it’s clear poor Steve
is in the toils;
Within a month ’e’s in the demon Matri-
mony’s coils.
An’ did the cause of it —’is so-called mate —
do anythink
To ’elp ’im out? Not on y’r life! ’E let
the poor cow sink!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


“Wang”: “When me ole dog Rover
got bit be a snake an’ died, I sed, ‘There
goes the most intellergent dorg in Aus-
tralyer,’ ” related Dan. “But I needn’t
have worried so much —he’d left plenty
of his brains behind him. He had mated
with a cattle-bitch the cocky I wus work-
in’ for at the time owned, an’ a week or
so after old Rover had wriggled out she
’as a litter of pups, six of ’em. When
the little beggars were old enough t’
toddle about they’d come inter the
kitchen at meal times an’ squat around
watchin’ us an’ lisenin’ to us yappin’, cute
as yer like. Then one day I get the
shock of me life t’ see one of the pups
draggin’ a freshly-killed pullet across the
yard, an’ push it under his mother’s nose.
Another pup’s sittin’ on top of ’er snap-
pin’ at ev’ry fly that tried to lob on her.
Then another pup appears draggin’ the
bag what wus used as a mat at the back
door, an’ nosed it under the ole girl.
I’m gawpin’ at this performance when
Number Four comes along with a leg of
mutton he’d pinched from somewhere,
an’ then I’m blest if the other two of the
six don’t hove in sight with a billycan of
milk. They ain’t big enough t’ carry it
be the handle, so they push it erlong the
ground slow an’ steady so’s they won’t
spill any. Be this time the cocky an’ his
missus has arrived an’ is standin’ watchin’
the goin’s-on, wonderin’. Then the missus
let’s out a pleased sorta yelp. ‘Why!
bless their little ’earts, I know what it
is,’ she ses; ‘they heard us talkin’ at
dinner-time ’bout t’ day bein’ Mother’s
Day.’ ”
H= H= H= *
“Old-timer”: As one who filed and
swung Douglas more times than he cares
to remember, let me rise in support of
“Bushy Park,” and confound “Wilber”
(B. 29/3/’39) with the statement that we
always used the file on a new axe to
take down the thickness of the blade
near the edge. Approved method was
to hold axe down with one foot, hold
file handle hard against side of axe-head
"Help! I Want t ’ sneeze !”
with one hand and, using the other hand
as lever, sweep the file back and forth
roughly parallel with the blade edge.
Our axes were always Kelly or Plumb.
* * * *
“Doubting T.”: What sort of a
“thicket” was that “Calypso” found be-
tween Port Augusta and Alice Springs
(B. 29 / 3/’39) with a hole in it into which
he had to crawl on hands and knees?
And how did the wild cat which was so
big it put the wind up him snatch up all
the kittens at one go and bolt with them?
I’ve seen some big cats in the bush, but
never one big enough to frighten a man
or able to carry more than one kitten.
“Cal.” is believing his dreams.
* * * *
“Old Campster”: Clarifying, muddy
water by means of wood-ash isn’t always
to be recommended. The ash of some
woods, notably some on the W.A. desert
country, is apt to run high in potash
and similar substances, which when fresh
from the fire are again apt to be caustic,
making the cure worse than the com-
plaint. Back in early Coolgardie days
swampers overcame the suspended-mud
difficulty by using a handful or so of
kopi, which substance Nature, with seem-
ingly benevolent forethought, had inyari-
ably placed close at hand. Kopi is a
powdery form of gypsum, whole hills
and ranges of it dotting the landscape
east from Coolgardie and Boulder. But
even kopi was injurious unless used in
extreme moderation. For, together with
a diet of tinned dog and damper, it bred
a dysentery that too often was the prelude
to typhoid. But many a man drank
kopied water without knowing it, since
water-carters, dipping from handy clay-
pans soon after rain, were much in-
clined to put a shovelful of the gypsum
into their tanks just to improve the ap-
pearance of the commodity. It is highly
probable that the first outbreak of
typhoid in the Old Camp was mostly
due to kopied water —and once fever
starts on a dry goldfield it goes on and
on. In fact, typhoid wasn’t really brought
under control on those goldfields until the
big water scheme was put through.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Westralian vignerons
successfully cultivate vines on country
such as “Botono” describes (B. 15/3/’39).
A charge of gelignite at each planting-
place shatters the capatone generally
coffee-rock—and gives the roots access
to food and water.
* * * *
“First Blue”: Judging by recent de-
velopments in some of the outer parts
of Gippsland (Vic.), it won’t be long
before that one-time essential of every
cocky’s get-up the horsewhip is a thing
of the past. Going into a store the other
day I was amazed to see most of the
young lads arguing eagerly over the
merits of various types of magnifying-
glasses for urging Dobbin to increase
his speed. My suggestion that the means
was a bit on the cruel side was dis-
missed with a curt rejoinder that the
horsewhip wasn’t any too pleasant either.
The idea may be all right, but, being
conservative at heart, I still cling to the
old-fashioned method. After all, a man
“ Ain't y' ever goin' t’ forget yer circus days?"
would look a bit of an Alec assailing
an unwanted suitor with a magnifying-
glass or threatening a hostile editor with
a good flogging when the only imple-
ment he has at hand is a darned thing
about four inches long with a hunk of
circular glass set in one end.
* * * *
“Fancar”: If “Tired Tim” wants to
park his bones on the Darling Downs
(B. 8/3/’39) he’ll have no trouble to
find a couch of bluebells, but buttercups
—no. The bluebell has hardily with-
stood cultivation, overstocking and
droughts, all of which have nearly wiped
out the buttercup. As a schoolchild I
picked my last bunch of buttercups on
the Westbrook plain in 1916, and though
I’ve never left the farm lands of the
Downs I’ve seen very few since. Other
wild-growing flowers which made
pleasurable splashes of color on the
Downs, and which have followed the
buttercup into banishment there, were
the giant wide-petalled daisies (little in-
ferior to their cousins the garden
shastas), the paper daisies which clothed
for long an eastern Downs ridge, the
little yellow pansies and the scented
spider lilies, all childhood delights. But
my own kiddies have seen none of them.
He * ft *
“Nor’-west”: That terrible parrot beak
of the squid and the octopus, so beloved
of the sea novelist, isn’t really a fiction,
though anyone casually observing either
of the two species of tentacle-wearers
might think it was. So, when on exam-
ining a freshly-caught squid and discover-
ing its mouth, it distinctly isn’t good busi-
ness to shove a finger in just to show that
one knows that those fiction writers were
liars. For there is a parrot beak in there.
And, moreover, the round, invariably
tightly-shut mouth is equipped with a
powerful sphincter muscle which assists
in grasping while the tearing parrot beak
gets in its murderous work. And it is
curiously shaped just like a parrot’s beak,
the upper section overhanging with a
sharp tearing point, the lower fitting in
beneath with just that action that enables
Cocky to crack a nut so ably. And can
the squid bite! With the recently-cap-
tured four-foot specimen now apparently
dead, the usual mug shoved his finger
into its mouth just to see, etc. Result:
the nail and top of a forefinger bitten
completely off. Even when a squid’s
tentacles are cut up into sections they
will still cling to the fingers that put them
on the hook.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: “Nap’s” par. (B.
8 / 3 / ’39) reminds me of the time Spinifex
Sam and 1 got a job digging mallee roots
for a cocky. Sam wasn’t busting himself
till the boss sauntered up and waxed
sarcastic about “not overdoin’ it.” Later
the cocky’s wife arrived down with the
lunch-basket, but beat a hasty retreat
on seeing Sam toiling manfully in the
nude. When old Wiregrass arrived and
demanded an explanation, Sam was
smoking in the shade, normally attired.
Blowing a cloud of smoke, he drawled
casually, “I was naked because I was
workin’, and I ain’t workin’ now because
I'm dressed. I reckon if a bloke’s got
to work like a horse he might as well
be dressed like one.”
LOAMING.
Vic.
He’s teaming on the hillside;
He holds the firm belief
That somewhere pretty handy
He’s bound to strike the reef.
He’ll strike it maybe “Mondee,
If everything goes well;
He’s had a “coupla colors’-
As yet, though, “ ’ard to tell.
He’s teaming, striking westward;
His mind is firmly set
That he is getting nearer,
That he will find it yet.
He’ll strike it maybe “Wensdee ;
He’s paid “particler heed”
To this part of the country,
And maybe there’s a lead.
He’s teaming down the gully,
The reef might be that way.
Somehow he must have missed it —•
Been close to it each day.
He’ll find it ’fore the year ends,
The white quartz bright with gold.
He’ll take out half a million,
Then let the mine be sold.
He’s teaming, still he’s teaming;
He’s bound to strike the reef
That waits for man to find it;
That is his firm belief.
He’ll find it maybe some day
And “give them a surprise”;
He’ll find it if he has to
Keep teaming till he dies.
JAMES HACKSTON.


oCifte
uou
your will is valid ?
Home-made wills, printed will forms, neglect of
regular will revision, all contribute to the defeat of
the will-maker's intentions. Therefore, it is wise to
engage a solicitor in drafting a will.
Many thoughtful men and women appoint THE
TRUSTEES EXECUTORS & AGENCY COMPANY
LTD. as Executor. At a fixed and moderate charge
the Company places at your disposal over 60
years' practical experience in estate adminis-
tration.
If unable to call, we suggest you write for
explanatory booklet without obligation.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves
and Undivided Profits. £959,810.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd.
1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
and at
TRUSTEES CHAMBERS, 401 & 403 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Maj.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G.
Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
W.R. 4-16-38
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carto.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Lunch from 12 noon . (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
City Mutual Life
Writ- Added to
ten Assurance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Fund.
£ £ £ £ £
1900 .. 55,713 24,450 16,266 1,950 13,048
1910 . . 121,588 39,352 28,961 7,388 45,887
1915 .. 230,727 107,188 33,740 9.G29 80,770
1920 .. 464,079 158,487 70,134 665 234,793
1927 .. 1,094,045 441,648 116,964 11,488 523,945
1929 . . 1,362,027 588,700 153,978 2,580 616,769
1930 .. 1,419,440 696,604 141,922 31,080 549,834
1931 .. 1,303,300 780,703 155,069 13,401 l 234 127
Reserved for contingencies, £120,000 J
1932 .. 1,316,891 767,756 163,556 762 ) 254817
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO )
1933 . . 1,236,329 755,195 149,766 2,700 ? 2 >,G6B
Reserved for contingencies, £lOO,OOO )
1934 .. 1,039.535 512,522 111,306 8,356 407,351
1935 .. 1,152,200 509,602 134,961 25,700 481,937
1936 .. 1,240,053 519,098 150,892 20,596 1
From bonus equalisation account, 579,467
£30,000 J
1937 .. 1,290,641 543,115 165,354 H,289 1 5C5 gB3
To staff fund, £5OOO . . .. • • 1 ’
1938 . . 1,355,548 600,753 160,031 19,208 ] _
To bonus equalisation account, £30,000 [- 540,496
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . • • J
With the close of last accounts the City
Mutual, youngest of Australia’s five big
mutual life offices, celebrated its diamond
jubilee. At the half-way mark in 1909
its annual premium income was only
£72,182 ; last year the figure was £866,603,
or over 12 times the 1909 figure. This
extraordinary progress during the .last
29 years has been due largely to the
handsome bonuses the society paid, fol-
lowing a revision of premium charges
(practically non-profit rates had been
charged until the early part of this cen-
tury), and a policy of mortgage and
property investment on a rising market.
Moreover, such a policy was very help-
ful in securing a lot of new business at
moderate cost.
Then slump and its concomitants
brought an abrupt contraction in the
sale of new contracts and reduced the
margin available for bonuses, as in all
life offices ; and, since the moratorium
in N. S. Wales had rendered some of
this society’s mortgages nugatory, for a
while at any rate, the said margin was
further reduced by substantial provision
for contingencies.
However, with the improvement in
conditions generally, the gap which
for a while appeared between market
and book value of some of the assets
has either wholly or substantially
disappeared, leaving returns from re-
serves created against this contingency
available to swell the margin for dis-
tribution among policy-holders—there are
no shareholders. So, although bonus
rates have been reduced, they are still
very handsome, commencing at £2 10s.
p.c. and rising to £4 ss. p.c. after 45
years under table A, and commencing
at £1 17s. 6d. p.c. and rising to £3 12s. 6d.
p.c. after 45 years under table E.
Revenue and balance-sheet figures re-
flect steady progress. Last year’s drought,
the fall in wool and wheat prices, and
psychological reaction to international
developments are reflected in a contrac-
tion of £51,316 in the amount of new
business put on the books:
1934. 1937. 1938.
Policies . . . . 4,737 6,771 6,501
Assuring . . . . £1,657,050 £2,'592.507 £2,541,191
First premiums . . 54,387 87,566 89,504
Renewal premiums 636,701 731,569 777,099
Annuities .. .. 24,895 33,220 22,758
Interest,- etc. . . 323,552 438,285 466,188
There was. a shrinkage of £10,462 in
consideration for annuities. The growth
in net premium income was £47,467, and
in interest and rents £27,902, making net
expansion of total income £64,907. The
average per policy was £390, as against
£383 for 1937. All exes, other than
.depreciation (£19,268, up £7979) took
11.8 p.c. of total income as against 12.8
p.c. for the previous term. Deducting
both taxes, etc. (£16,917, down £11,142),
and depreciation, and allowing 3 p.c.
for consideration for annuities, the
balance of exes, took 16.4 p.c. of the
year’s net premiums, compared with 16.6
p.c. in 1937.
After paying all legitimate claims
(largest contributing factor in death
claims was organic diseases of the heart,
followed by automobile and other acci-
dents) and exes., striking off £19,268 for
depreciation, sending £5OOO to the staff
fund and £30,000 to the reserve for the
equalisation of bonuses (now £100,000),
£540,496 was added to the assurance
fund, making it £9,330,027. In addition
to this fund, which more than covers
liabilities under policies, there are £452,950
reserved for contingencies and the bonus
reserve just referred to, together equal
to 5.9 p.c. of the fund.
Interest and rents appear to be the
source from which the co. scores heaviest.
After deducting taxes, etc., last year’s net
effective return was 5.08 p.c. on the life
fund, as against 4.94 p.c. for the previ-
ous term. Practically all the letting space
in the society’s fine new headquarters
premises, at the comer of Hunter and
Elizabeth streets, Sydney, is taken, and
the building is turning in about 5 p.c. net.
The next table shows how funds are
placed:
1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
Govt, securities. . £2,188,110 23.2 £2,278.602 22.7
Mortgages, etc... 3,127,466 33.1 3,402,139 33.9
Loans on policies 1,223.502 12.9 1.193,670 11.9
Properties.. .. 1,970,400 20.9 2,116,504 21.1
Shares and
debentures, . etc. 764,890 8.1 855,350 8.6
Cash and sundries 168,734 1.8 180,884 1.8
At the end of 1928 Government securi-
ties and mortgages accounted for 16.1
p.c. and 57.7 p.c. respectively of total
assets ; at the close of last accounts the
ratios were 22.7 p.c. and 33.9 p.c. respec-
tively.
Lustre Hosiery, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends N To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 39.590 5 p.c. 5 p.c. 10,050 29,540 38,654
Added intangibles, £s9' .. .. 38,595
1930 . . 8,981 Nil Nil 8,981 47,576
Added intangibles, £9O .. .. 47,486
1931. .10,429 10 p.c. Nil 8,005 2,424 49.910
Added intangibles, £8 .. •• 49,902
1932. 14.4 p.c. Nil 12,030 2,800 52,702
Added intangibles, £64 . . . . 52,638
1933. .24,578 15.6 p.c. 5 p.c. 21,250 3,328 55,966
1934.. 32.331 7f „ 7f „ 19.375 12,956 68,922
1935.. 29,824 7f 7§ „ 19,375 10,449 79,371
Intangibles disappear, £196 .. .. 79,567
Insurance policies surrendered,
£2OOB 77,559
Written off, £2900 74,659
1936.-20,931 7|- p.c. 73 p.c. 22,822 72,768
Added intangibles, £3O . . • • 72,738
1937.. 31.857 7i p.c. 75 p.c. 24,412 7,445 80,183
Added intangibles, £39 . . . • 80,144
1938.. 29,476 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 24,800 4,676 84,820
Pref. div. subject 225 P-c. cut from 1/10/'3l.
*Six months.
This 18-year-old turns out a variety of
hosiery, underwear and other artificial
silk fabrics from its modern and efficient
plant at Boundary-street, Sydney. Selling
branches have been set up at Melbourne
and Brisbane, and there is a small manu-
facturing subsidiary at Wellington,
Maoriland. From the start the business
developed rapidly, and soon looked like
becoming a steady 10 percenter; but
slump and domestic troubles intervened.
However, the co. never failed to earn a
profit, though the pref. div. fell a little
into arrears and the ords. went without
for the three years to the end of 1932,
money being wanted to carry debtors
and reduce outside liabilities.
With economic and other troubles out
of the way, earnings responded, but the
outlook had changed, and everywhere
one could hear a knife being sharpened
in the trade. Realising that it would be
increased efficiency, mechanical and
otherwise, that would enable the Aus-
tralian hosiery manufacturer to reduce
costs and win satisfactory profits in a
highly competitive market, a new mill
and plant were installed in 1936. Delay
in completion of the new mill building
affected the 1936 figures, but those for
1937 were robust enough.
Business held well until the third
quarter of the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, when events in central
Europe, together with local defence
preparations, prospective increases in
taxation, and low prices for wool and
wheat, caused trade turnovers generally
to slacken a little. Also, Lustre reports
severe competition in the full-fashioned
hosiery section of the trade, which means
price - cutting; “full production and
sales were maintained” by the co.
Further, the Maoriland offshoot, which
registered a profit in 1937, made a loss
of £548 last year —recent restrictions im-
posed by the Dominion Government
should now help manufacturers there.
The slip in the parent’s gross earnings
(£148,012) was £3593. Including £24,565
(up £3773) for depreciation and an un-
specified provision for taxation, exes.
(£113,373) were £llB2 lighter. Allowing
for a small unexplained addition to re-
serves, the net result (down £2381) was
sufficient to pay the prefs. their full con-
tract rate (10 p.c.—£8333) and show 9.3
p.c. on ord. capital as against 10.3 p.c.
for the previous term. Actually an all-
round 8 p.c. was distributed as against
7| p.c. for the previous term. Under
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act
the prefs. are entitled to advance with
the ords. from 1\ p.c. to their original
contract rate.
Difficulties during the last quarter are
further reflected in a growth of £11,128
in debtors’ balances, £8165 in stocks and
of £19,074 in the overdraft:
1934. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Ord. capital. . £166,667 £226.667 £226.667 £226,667
Pref. capital.. 83,333 83,333 83,333 83,333
Mortgages . . 31,928 31,928 31,928
Overdraft . . 27,483 45,718 53,666 72,740
Creditors . . 40,163 26,324 40,721 37,016
Freeholds . . 45,626* 120,148 123,547 122,381
Plant.. .. 142.732 158,990 162,722 164,725
Stocks . . 127,689 133,572 150,993 159,158
Debtors . . 97.770 85,463 97,147 108,275
Cash, etc. . . 2,722 481 474 509
Investments . . 10,777 11,000 10,452
* Less mortgage.
Including stocks, reported sound' and not
excessive, the year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£126,258)
was £3959.
Last month a conference of manufac-
turers was held in Melbourne with the
object of stabilising prices of full-
fashioned hosiery. Still, the market,
doubtful of the future, notes the
crowded state of the trade, and
prices the pound ords. at 19s. 6d.
as against 225. 6d. a year ago. At the
lower figure the return is 8.2 p.c. on a
8 p.c. div. basis. On the same basis the
prefs. at 235. 6d. yield 6.8 p.c. Net tan-
gible backing is £4 14s. 9d. prefs., 275. sd.
ords.
London Stores, Ltd. (Melb.)
, —Dividends— N Writ-
Pref. Ord. ten' To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 9 p.c. 12i p.c. Off. serves, serves.
1929.. 9OOO 770 2,214 91,213
1930.. 47,445 9000 25,000 782 12,663 103,876
1931.. 3,406 9000 Nil 731 97,551
5 p.c.
1932.. 11,168 9000 10,000 683 89,036
1933.. 19,774 9000 10,000 710 64 89,100
3£ p.c.
1934.. 17,311 9000 7,500 769 42 89,142
5 p.c.
1935.. 20,807 9000 10,000 1015 792 89,934
7i p.c.
1936.. 29,912 9000 15,000 987 4.925 94,859
10 p.c.
1937.. 31,012 9000 20,000 968 1,044 95,903
1938.. 33.962 9000 20,000 1001 3,961 99,864
1939.. 30,022 9000 20,000 911 111 99,975
For many years this co. had nothing
invested in bricks and mortar, and was
able to get along with a handful of
capital (£70,000) and pay handsome divs.
(an average of 18| p.c. for the five years
to the close of accounts in 1925). Then
shareholders put up £lOO,OOO of pref.
money and £129,000 was raised on
mortgage to buy the present freehold and
erect a new 11-storeyed building thereon.
Meanwhile £lOO,OOO of bonus scrip was
handed to the ords., raising paid capital
to its present figure.
After that satisfactory earnings largely
depended upon the livening of turn-
over and reduction of unit costs,
which meant shrewd buying and a
tight hold upon outgoings. Judged
by the figures the management has been
successful in both directions. For
the two years to the close of accounts in
1930 the ords. got 12| p.c. Then, with
the sudden change in outlook, they were
passed by in 1931, but got back into the
picture with 5 p.c. in ’32, followed by
5, 31, 5, 7| and then three lots of 10 p.c.
to the close of last accounts. The fact
that the co., which specialises largely in
men’s wear, buys and sells mostly on a
cash basis, and that its big and attrac-
tive store is at the corner of Bourke and
Elizabeth streets, opposite the G.P.0.,
around which the shopping crowd flows,
means much.
During the 12 mohths covered by the
latest accounts, business generally in
Victoria was affected by lower-than-
average rainfall, lower prices for wool
and wheat, and rising costs, while inter-
national developments affected the psy-
chology of markets the world over. Still,
after making whatever provision was
considered necessary for contingencies,
this co.’s board wrote net earnings only
£3850 lighter than the previous year’s
at £29,111, or enough to pay the pref.
div. (£9000) and show a shade over 10
p.c. on ord. capital as against approxi-
mately 12 p.c., 10.5, 9.9, 5.4, 3.7 and 5
p.c. back to 1933. The div. was kept at
10 p.c., and visibly there was only £lll
to spare, which lifted the lay-by £99,975
in excess of goodwill (£16,659), not
treated as an asset herein.
There was no change worth mention-
ing in balance-sheet figures:
1920. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £70,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300.000
Liabilities . . 30,100 105,052 105,774 105,222
Property, etc. 40,199 412,253 412,253 412,253
Plant, etc. .. 4,714 7,036 7,637 7,0 n
Shares in other
cos . . 5,804 5.804 5,804
Stocks . . 98,819 79,278 85,676 85,493
Book debts . . 5,054 5.492 4,979 5,724
Cash, etc. .. 20,465 16,091 14.289 13,84 i
Of the outside liabilities £99,000 consists


THE EASY
SHAVING
RAZOR
I
*
ft
k
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor —fully
guaranteed and kept in order for two years,
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/6
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/6
Superfine steel, ivory handle 21/-
ALL POST FREE.
Guard to convert the Plum into a safety razor,
_ 3/6 extra. Fits t and f blades.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
UCA
BRITISH W MADE.
THERE IS A
BATTERY
FOR EVERY PURPOSE
c
*0
9 B
s.
Co <2% >
%
/o
a
LUCAS Quality Batteries
are Warranted tor 2 Years!
OBTAINABLE FROM DEALERS THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
of mortgages on freeholds, so the floating
debt is well covered.
As for the current term, recent rains
have brightened the seasonal outlook,
but costs continue to climb, export prices
are still at low levels, and more taxation
for defence is promised. Still, business
activity generally continues at a satis-
factory level. Doubtful whether last
term’s rate of distribution will be main-
tained, the market prices the ords. at
28s. 3d. as against 30s. a year ago. The
return at the lower figure is 7 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div. basis, or 5.6 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
distribution. The prefs. at 335. 6d. yield
5.3 p.c. The net tangible backing is £4
prefs. and 30s. ords.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Added to Re-
Dec.. Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928 .. 18,546 133 E-e. = 19,467 23,558
Transferred from tax reserve, £lOOO.. 24,558
Loss. Deficit-
-1929 .. 101,686 Nil 77.122
1930 .. 35.570 Nil 112,692
Profit.
1931 .. 3,063 Nil 3,063 109,629
1932 .. 3,902 Nil 3,902 105,727
1933 .. 236 Nil 236 105,491
1934 .. 23,843 Nil 23,843 81,648
1935 .. 24,224 3.3 p.c. = 8,111 16,113 65,535
1936 .. 44,680 10 „ „ 24,333 20,347 45,188
1937 .. 45,512 11.6,, „ 28,389 17,123 28,065
1938 . . 3,089 Nil 3,089 24,976
Squatting out west in N. S. Wales and
over the border in Queensland, where
this co. has been a run-owner for more
than half a century, is a precarious busi-
ness. The big gamble is seasons and
prices, and seldom is there a favorable
combination of the two. When such a
happy state of affairs does occur, as in
’36 and ’37, attractive returns are won.
Still, for the investor, scrip in this class
of business is a question of average rather
than immediate return.
After sales at 235., buyers now offer
175., with sellers standing off at 215., for
the f-.p. 30s. shares, which sold at 355.
a year ago. At 19s. the return would be
5 p.c. on a 3 p.c. div. basis. The net
tangible backing (book value) is 265. lid.
per share —15s. Bd. in surplus liquids and
the balance in Crown leases in N. S.
Wales and Queensland. Of the Queens-
land leases, known as Thurulgoona
station, one-third was resumed in March,
1937, leaving a balance of 735 sq. miles,
of which 275 sq. miles is to be resumed
at the end of 1939; the remaining
460 sq. miles is to revert to the Crown
at the end of 1944. About four years ago
Quantambone, the N.S. Wales property,
was brought under a new Act, which
provided for extension of the western land-
lease until 1968-73, subject to resump-
tions of one-fourth at the beginning of
1937, one-eighth in 1943 and another
eighth in 1948. The 1937 resumptions
reduced the area of the two properties
combined from 1670 sq. miles to 1160
sq. miles.
Divs. averaged 4\ p.c. for 23 years
to the close of accounts in 1923. Then
half the capital was jettisoned to cover
amortisation of leases. On the other half
(£146,002) an average of 20.7 p.c. was
paid for the five years to the end of 1928.
Then £275,000 of fresh capital was gath-
ered to buy Quantambone ; the figures
since tell the story of fluctuating seasonal
conditions and prices.
Drought and low prices for wool and
livestock were the trouble last term, when
a lot of sheep had to be sold, and most
of the breeding ewes that remained had
to be hand-fed or put on agistment. There
was a contraction of 42,191 in the num-
ber of sheep put over the board, the
clip was 1678 bales lighter, and the aver-
age per bale was down £5 ss. 4d.:
t Sheep >,
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1928.. 82,567 176,747 1887 £43,856 £23/4/10
1929.. 115,450 96,820 2534 38,627 15/4/10
1930.. 100,011 139,644 2298 25.300 11/0/2
1931.. 137,428 172,620 3826 44,681 11/10/4
1932.. 166,757 192,281 4626 55,719 12/0/11
1933.. 173,260 137,904 3820 74,274 19/8/10
1934.. 155,935 184,469 4205 54,395 12/18/8
1935.. 150,220 148,691 4086 69,075 16/18/-
1936.. 131,167 160,344 3912 76,769 19/12/5
1937.. 116,696 104,589 3520 67,198 19/1/9
1938.. 74,505 98,618 1842 25,455 13/16/5
Gross returns from all sources (£45,320)
were down £62,484, of which £20,062 was
offset by a saving in exes. (£42,231), leav-
ing the net result £42,422 lighter at £3089.
No div. was paid.
The remarkable recuperative power
of pastoral properties is shown in the
improvement in the co.’s financial posi-
tion between 1930 and 1935:
1930. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Capital .. £243,338 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities .. 151,689 7,332 1,179' 318
Stations, plant,
etc. .. 192,522 125,141 107,718 102,019
Sheep, cattle,
horses .. 87,150 75,599 62,132 51,506
Wool unsold,. 1,900 1,317 10,267
Cash, etc. .. 2,085 3,189 81,612 75,654
At the close of last accounts the more
or less liquid surplus (£126,842) was
£25,990 lighter than at the previous
balance, owing mainly to payment of the
previous year’s final div. The comfort-
able cash holding should enable the man-
agement to stock up again without hav-
ing to go to its bankers for much, if
anything, in the way of assistance.
Although useful storms have recently
broken over both properties, present
seasonal conditions are only fair, and
the current year’s results will depend
upon further satisfactory falls.
Caledonian Collieries, Ltd.
Nominal
Net t Dividends N To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1925.. 89,242 6 p.c. 6 p.c. = 89,274 102,032
1926.. 76,147 6 „ 4„ „ 68,802 7,345 109,377
1927.. 58,859 6 „ 3„ „ 58,566 293 109,670
1928.. 79,105 6 „ 5„ „ 79,038 67 109,737
Loss.
1929.. 54,193 Nil Nil 55,544
Profit.
1930.. 675 Nil Nil 675 56,219
19*.. 15,975 Nil Nil 15,975 72,194
1932.. 12,585 Nil Nil 12,585 84,779
1933.. 13,279 Nil Nil 13,279 98,058
1934.. 12,322 Nil Nil 12,322 110,380
10-?',.. 10.415 Nil Nil 10,415 120.795
1936.. 702 Nil Nil 702 121,497
1937.. 353 Nil Nil 353 121,850
It/oi!.. Nil Nil Nil Nil 121,850
This co., which took over from Glasgow
interests, including the cotton Coateses,
in 1914, has a paid capital of £1,487,894
in 464,295 6 p.c. cum. prefs. and
1,023,599 ords. Howard Smith owns
about 70 p.c. of the prefs. and 85 p.c. of
the ords. The collieries —the four Aber-
dares (Greta seam, one of the least ex-
pensive to work in the State), the Wara-
tah (Burwood seam) and West Wallsend
and Killingworth (Borehole seam) —are
on the northern N.S.W. field. Under boom
conditions in the trade, the ords. aver-
aged 6 p.c. (worth a lot more to original
holders, owing to a capitalisation at the
start) for the 10 years to the end of 1928.
Then came a 15 months’ stoppage, owing
to industrial trouble, followed by slump,
and transport and industry turned their
attention from high-cost coal to lower-
cost oil and electricity. Thus, despite
casualties, there are still too many in the
trade for the volume of business avail-
able, and neither class of Caledonian’s
shareholders has had a div. during the
last decade.
A year or so ago there appeared to be
a sporting chance of the prefs. getting
back into the picture—under the N. S.
Wales Interest Reduction Act their div.
has been reduced to 5 p.c. (= £23,213).
But again the forays of the miners stood
in the way of any return on capital. Fol-
lowing a six weeks’ stoppage at the co.’s
Aberdare pits in August last, there was
a six weeks’ strike of all collieries which
ended on Oct. 24. These two stoppages
caused an estimated loss to the co. of
293,000 tons of coal; and then, in
November, a fire occurred at the Waratah
colliery which also affected the year’s
earnings. The affected area has been
sealed off, and work at Waratah was re-
sumed at the beginning of January. The
profit claimed was £26,004 lighter at
£19,349, all of which was struck off for
depreciation, allowance for which was
£45,000 and £29,323 for the two -pre-
ceding terms.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1929. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Pref capital. . £464,295 £464,295 £464,295 £464,295
Ord. capital. . 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599 1,023,599
Creditors .. 219,972 122,106 116,546 96,837
Overdraft . . 98,365 54,961 17,114
Collieries, etc. 1,738,708 1,609,125 1,569,751 1,583,104
Stores .. 61,555 49,967 57,443 65,910
Coal stocks .. 758 11,061 11,536 8,784
Book debts . . 9,074 57,726 29,457 7,965
Shares .. 51,302 57,631 57,631 57,631
Cash, etc. .. 378 246 473 300
The year’s surplus earnings, together
with £17,114 from the bank, a reduction
of £21,492 in debtors’ balances and
£2752 in coal stocks, enabled £13,353 to
be added to fixed assets, £8467 to stores
and £19,709 to be snipped off the amount
o Continued on page 24.)


FINE COUNTRY HOME
At GLEN INNES
Suitable For Retired Gentleman.
J
mm
v '
” v '.'.'.'Z y !gmi
• Residence contains Drawing Room. Dining Room, Hall, 4 Redruoms, and Dressing
Room, Office. Sun Room, Front Verandah, and Rack Glassed-in Verandah, Kitchen,
2 Pantries, Storeroom, Laundry.
All Modern Conveniences, including Electric Light, Septic System. Telephone, Tennis
Court, Rush House, Orchard, Flower and Vegetable Garden, Maids’ Quarters with
2 Redrooms and Sitting Room, Dairy, Woodshed, with Engine and Circular Saw,
Stables, Garage for 2 Cars, Ruggy Shed, Fowl Runs, Pigsty, Permanent Water
Supplied to House and Outbuildings by Windmill from River, Swimming Pool,
■Situated on Area of Approximately 100 Acres, New England Highway 6 miles from
Glen Innes, N.S.W. For further particulars * 1
Apply “Country Home,” Box 240 D, G.P.0., Brisbane.
pH
WHICH
OF
tS
*
fST
1837
Policies must change to meet chang-
ing conditions, but sound principles
endure.
For more than a century certain
fundamentals have governed the
Union Bank.
IN BANKING —co-operation with customers
in good times and bad, whether their
needs be large or small, and a primary
regard for the safety of deposits.
IN ALL RELATlONS —emphasis on quality
of service, designed to make the Bank a
constructive influence in the affairs of its
customers and the business of the Nation.
These principles endure.
The Union Bank
of Australia Limited
(Incorporated in England)
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L, B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
ORES.—Try O. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders, Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * #
FERRODOR (Anti-corrosive) PAINT has saved
many thousands of pounds in repairs and repaintings.
For all wooden, steel or iron structures. Will not
blister or crack. Sole Agents, William Adams and
Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.— Advt.
SEND YOUR
ENQUIRIES FOR
MINING MACHINERY
STAMP BATTERIES
CONCENTRATORS
MAGNETIC SEPARATORS
AMALGAMATING TABLES
WATER FILTERS
EVERLASTING VALVES
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
MOTORS AND SWITCHGEAR
GARBAGE DESTRUCTORS
ALL CLASSES OF TOOLS.
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10*12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney.
THE UNEXPECTEDLY
EMPTY CHAIR
Not the title of a novel, but a
cheerful discussion of an
ever-present problem
A CHEERFUL discussion, because we offer
a happy solution. First of all, a ques-
tion: If you should die to-morrow, would
your widow be able to carry on?
If you should die to-morrow —or next
year—what would be the minimum income
that she would need ? Two pounds a week —
three, four ? Think it out. Don’t under-
estimate the amount. Let us say three
pounds. You can arrange with the A.M.P.
to-day that she shall have that income for
life, even though you .should die next year,
next week, or even to-morrow. Alternatively,
you can arrange that, after you reach 60, the
pair of you shall have that income as long
as you live, and then pass three or four
thousand pounds on to your children.
You do not have to wait till you have
saved the necessary capital to make certain
of this income; you can make certain of it
to-day and pay for it at convenient periods
so long as you live.
A cheerful thought? Then act on it. Ask
the nearest A.M.P. office to send an experi-
enced man to show you how little this com-
fort will cost you. Do it to-day. Even
to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
SAM B. BAGLEY &; SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne*
coming to trade creditors. Including
stores, the more or less liquid surplus
(£26,639) was £13,325 lighter than at the
previous balance. Judged on the basis of
what they can earn, fixed assets are obvi-
ously not worth anything approaching
their book value.
What the future holds for the industry
it is difficult to say. While it remains
overcrowded, selling prices are likely to
be pared to the bone ; and the ghost of
industrial trouble always stalks in the
background. There appears to be little
prospect of low-temperature carbonisa-
tion becoming established here, owing to
the difficulty of finding a market for the
by-product, smokeless fuel. Hydrogena-
tion seemed to hold better prospects,
owing to its higher yield of liquid fuels ;
but heavy capital and maintenance costs
stand in the way.
Since the beginning of 1938 the price
of the ords. has fluctuated in the market
between 3s. 3d. and 2s. 6d., while the
figure for the prefs, has moved between
10s. 9d. and Bs. Recent quotes were
9s. lid. prefs. and 2s. 7d. ords. At the-
moment there appears to be little chance
of arrears of pref. divs. (£244,907, or
10s. 6|d. per share, at the close of last
accounts) ever being wiped out from
earnings.
Kanieri’s £10,300 working surplus for
March should keep supporters’ stocks up.
It raises the tally for three months’ dig-
ging to £21,090. Turnover is improving,
but has not yet reached anything like
rated capacity of the plant; the March
effort was 207,000 c.y.
* * * *
Barrytown Gold’s year ended on March
31. A working surplus of £24,750 is indi-
cated on turnover of 2,469,000 c.y.
March’s contribution was £4OO0 —the best
showing of recent months. The recovery
factor is the problem here, the gold,
lying in black sands, being of extreme
fineness.
* * #
Gems to the value of £2166 were sold
on the Anakie (Q.) field last year. First
blues realised £1574, but it was difficult
to sell other classes of sapphires, includ-
ing fancy and machine stones, corundum
and zircons. Out of a parcel sent to
the U.S.A., one yellow stone fetched £B5
and a blue one £6O. A little prospecting
for gems is also carried on at Rubyvale,
near Iguana Flat, in the vicinity of Reid’s
Waterholes.
* * * *
From July 11, when production began,
to the close of the financial period in
March, Victoria Gold Dredging’s record
is 1,210,550 c.y. dredged, including over-
burden and tailings, for 10,6560 z. fine
gold, or 4.6 gr. per c.y. Divs. of 4s. per
10s. share were paid. The co.’s
property is at Newstead (Vic.). Bor-
ing proved 19,000,000 c.y. of 3.69 gr.
dirt, of which Mines Department per-
mission to dig 15,000,000 c.y. valued at
3.64 gr. was obtained. A feature of the
Australian - built 175,000 - c.y. - monthly
dredge is its resoiling equipment, which
“remakes” the ground as dug. Thd suc-
cess of the co. promises to enliven invest-
ment confidence in Victorian dredging,
somewhat shaken by failure of one or
two recent smaller floats to live up to
expectations. Gold Exploration and
Finance and Gold Mines of Aust. own
over 80 p.c. of the Victoria co.’s capital.
* * * *
Star Explorations, Ltd., proposes to
lop £70,000 off capital, reducing the
figure to £30,000, by writing 3s. 6d. off
each of the 400,000 ss. issued shares. The
Is. 6d. shares will then be consolidated
into 300,000 2s. shares, and the nominal
capital is to be increased to £lOO,OOO by
creation of 700,000 2s. shares. The slash
in capital is to enable the board to write
down the co.’s investments to their
approximate market value. At Oct.
31, 1938, their value was shown in
the accounts at £191,279; market
value was £127,243. Further deprecia-
tion reduced their book value at
Feb. 17, 1939, to £176,529 ; market value
was then £85,095. Overdraft has been
reduced since Oct. 31 last from £57,619
to £49,943. The co.’s first venture was
the re-treatment of tailings at Boulder ;
then it started and has since carried on a
financial and exploration business, chiefly
in connection with mining. At present
it is interested in Australasian, South and
West African, Rhodesian and Malayan
gold and base-metal mining, etc. Loss
for year ended Oct. 31, 1938, was £1902
(for previous year a profit of £10,573 was
claimed), reducing the credit balance car-
ried forward to £12,221. Last div. (10
p.c., less tax) was in respect of the 12
months to Oct. 31, 1936. The market
prices the ss. shares at 2s. or thereabouts.
* * * *
Having sold out at Kalgoorlie (W.A.)
to the Paringa Co., G.M. Block 45 is now
shifting to the Norseman field. A 12
months’ option has been taken over the
Empire leases, which is an “outstanding
mining speculation” and “the best thing
outside the Blue Bird,” according to
O. James, underground manager of
Norseman G.M. The lode is schist. Eight
shafts, deepest 80ft., have been put down
over 300 ft., and 6dwt. to 9dwt. values
are mentioned over a width of sft. The
co. has about £2OOO liquid, and, in hopes
of raising a further £lOOO or so, intends
offering 91,000 forfeited shares to those
on the register at 3d. each. There are
340,000 shares issued.
* * * *
Official announcement that North Kal-
gurli (W.A.) proposes to erect a treat-
ment plant on the Croesus Prop, block,
half a mile north of the main North Kal-
gurli group and separated from it by
North Kalgurli United, is a surprise to
many investors. Croesus Prop, was
worked for 10 years prior to 1937 on a
profit-sharing basis by South Kalgurli,
which gave up because it couldn’t make
ends meet. The result of subsequent
developments, down to No. 10 level, by
North Kalgurli have not been starred.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Heat Wave: (1) Yes. (2) Shares not listed.
Write secretary, Darling Building, Franklin-
street, Adelaide... .A.A.McG.: Liquidators took
control in 1931. Last of the co.’s debtors’
balances sold to Cranwells in 1935. Share-
holders rescued nothing from the wreck
J.A.R.: Unable to obtain balance sheet from
Associated Dominions, which, a few years ago,
was not in a very robust condition... .Canny:
Appears to be a reasonable swap at the
moment. Paper co. might, however, meet with
opposition later 0n.... Kurrajong: N 0....
G.C.: If safety of capital is important, look
the other way E. 8.: Chief cos. on the hunt
at the moment are (1) Australasian Petroleum,
issued capital £405,000 in £1 shares, of which
Oil Search, the Vacuum Co. and Anglo-Iranian
each hold 135,000. Oil Search’s lot were
issued as fully paid; the rest were to be paid in
cash as required. (2) Papuan Apinaipi Petro-
leum, issued capital £62,500 in ss. shares, of
which 110,654 are fully paid and the balance
paid to Is. 6d. each.


SHOKE-OH!
“Crooners are a dying race,” declares visit-
ing band-leader.
They sound like it.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“Good writers can write about nothing.”
—Literary course.
They often do.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Butchers very seldom advertise over the
wireless.” —Radio mag.
Probably consider there’s enough tripe
on the air.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It is doubtful whether aeroplanes will ever
be able to travel quicker than sound.”
—Scientific journal.
Then there’s no escape from the saxo-
phone?
4* 4* 4* 4*
Women make-up in haste and repaint
at leisure.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He was awakened in the early hours of
the morning by a monotonous scratching noise
that seemed to emanate from the kitchen.”
—Extract from short story.
Obviously his wife scraping the toast.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Are you troubled with a sense of fullness
after your evening meal?” — Advt.
No —we’re boarding.
4* 4* Af 4b
“Whilst driving his taxi-cab, Joe would
compose little verses.” —Short story.
Used to scan the metre?
Too Much.
“Respondent said his wife accused him of
faults and nagged so much about them that
he was forced to leave. The marriage was
a result of a matrimonial advertisement.”
She advertised “with view to mat.” ;
But when he fell an easy prey
He thought not for a moment that
He’d have to toe it every day.
H. M.
4 1 •i* 4* 4*
“Charlie Chaplin now owns several laundries
in Hollywood.”-— Film blurb.
Not content with splitting people’s sides
he’s now turned his attention to shirts.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The average man’s clothes weigh four
times as much as the average woman’s.”
—Tailoring journal.
Yet, the average woman has more to
show for it.
4* 4* 4> 4 1
“The stars influence businessmen.”
—Astrological blurb.
Hollywood divorce lawyers, for
instance.
“Why didn't y' say it Was goin' t' be a FORMAL turnout?"
“Eggs should always be packed in layers.”
—Poultry magazine.
And onions in tiers.
•b r l* *B* *B*
“On one occasion her husband threw the
breakfast steak at her “—Divorce evidence.
We often wondered why butchers ad-
vertised “chuck steak.”
•5* *B* *B* *B*
“What is the proposed ‘remote control’ on
a radio set?” — Correspondent.
The wife yelling from the kitchen,
“Turn that thing off!”
“I'd like a pint for every time I've sung this one, Joe!"
“New” journalism’s slogan: All is gold
that jitters.
•8* *b *B* *B*
Vehicular.
“We all of us use some vehicles of thought.”
• —“5. M. Herald.”
We are put on the road to knowledge
early, but some stray on the primrose
paths. Many of us miss the bus, but we
get our trains of thought, and all of us
experience some hardships in our travels
through life. Some of us ride the high
horse, and others get home on the pig’s
back; we are
prone to get up
in the air after
small successes,
and fly to ex-
tremes ; but when
trouble hits us we
realise we are all
in the same boat.
We embark on
rash enterprises ;
but it is to the
slowcoaches that
the most solid
progress often
comes.
We are liable to be carried away by
our feelings or by an epidemic when it
comes along. Even if we escape that to
continue our restless search for an oppor-
tunity to rest, we are finally borne to
rest without any impulse of our own.
That is our funeral.
H. M.
jf/> •!*
“It is quite certain that fewer women than
men go grey.”—' “S. M. Herald.”
Women don’t get a chance—they dye
off so quickly.
•}• •!• ■!• •J*
“In the event of war every Pole will be at
his post.” — “Sun.”
And there, no doubt, will stick up for
his country.
A Curs-ory Review.
I’m confused by the flux of the myth
“status quo,”
By tipsters like Madame Two-Blues;
But the Reich (this I know ) won’t have
Semites, and so
Democracy’s getting its Jews.
The Irish won’t panic, the Scots will not
shout,
John Bull stands as stout and as
steady ;
In Moscow, no doubt, there’s much
Russian about —
1 fear they are Red but not ready.
The French are resentful; it rouses their
Gaul
Seeing sample-size countries diminish.
Can Berlin go on without getting a fall ?
Will Hitler’s next move be the
Finnish ?
SOL.
Unashamed.
“Alice, darling! You’re the very per-
son I’ve been dying to see. I wanted
to warn you not to call on these new
people who’ve bought Benson’s place,
My dear, I have a cousin who lives in
the same town as a Mr. and Mrs. Har-
ford, and she tells me that they were
always the scandal of the whole district,
These people only arrived yesterday, and
I’m not sure that they’re the same Har-
fords, but I always think that one can’t
be too careful. When she tried to speak
to me yesterday I cut her dead. You
never know where these things will end.
“I believe she gives him an absolutely
fearful time, and that the language she
uses is simply dreadful. She once slapped
his face at the Golf Club Ball —right in
the middle of the dance floor, too. Then
she publicly accused the doctor’s wife of
trying to steal her husband. She should
have been glad from what I’ve seen of
him, not that she seems any better.
“Oh! hello, Mabel. I was just telling
Alice a few facts about the Harfords, our
new neighbors. What! You’ve just come
from calling and their name’s Harring-
ton. You know, Alice, I thought all
along that those dreadful Harfords I
spoke about couldn’t be the same people.
Mrs. Harrington looks so refined some-
how!”
MEOW.
"....See Next Week’s Instalment.”
“This strip,” said the comic-strip artist
to the editor of the Great Daily, “will
raise the circulation to the million mark.
It goes like this:
“Mystery surrounds the Albert Park
lake, lights are seen hovering over the
water, yabbies are dying in thousands,
phantom figures float through the night
sky, the C. 1.8. is baffled and the ‘Daily
Blah’ sends its ace-reporter, Munchausen
Moloney, to investigate.
“He is kidnapped by the Little Men
with Pink Toenails and dragged to their
underground city beneath the Yarra.
Here he is brought before the Arch-Dic-
tator Mustapha Worre and learns of the
infamous plot to wreck Australia by means
P°i soned hamburgers,
“Ermyntrude, the beautiful daughter of
Mustapha, and Munchausen fly. Re-
captured by the One-Legged-Flying-Fish,
they are thrown to the Man-Eating
Yabbie, which Munchausen successfully
throttles with his old school tie. Escaping
from the Pit of a Thousand Holes and the
Torture of 19,999 Pins, they are betrayed
into the hands of the High Priest, Pot-
tana Dashe, who tortures Munchausen
with his diabolical Crooning Machine.
“Finally they are washed up on the
shores of Albert Park, where Munchau-
sen is stunned by a low-flying golf ball
and Ermyntrude drags him to the safety
of the nearest Boy Scout hostel. Then
we could send Munchausen off to Central
Australia to investigate the mystery of
the Missing Oasis”
“Good!” interrupted the Great Man.
“That’ll do for a start. Get into it! ”
A.H.F.R.
The Wrecker.
On hoard the schooner Hesperus
that sailed the wintry sea
The skipper sat into a game of cards
for companee.
The way he scooped up kitty gave the
boys some awful shocks —
In fact, it was the crew and not the
ship went on the rocks!
McM.
The Art of Politics.
VIII.
Adaptability to meet changing con-
ditions is essential to the politician.
A lofty conception of his duty to his
masters and a self-expressed belief that
in his new sphere he can best serve his
country, invariably mark a member’s de-
cision to change his allegiance from one
party to another. Certain crude minds,
blind to the idealism which has spurred
him to do it, may say that it is just
plain “ratting,” point to the fact that he
is exchanging a wobbly seat for one that
is regarded in the party he is joining as
a lay-down misere, and harshly opine
that, afraid of getting booted out, he
“dingoed” a fight.
These critics lose sight of the fact
that he is big enough to put State before
party. Had he stayed any longer and
been kicked out of the old party, might
not his rich experience in statecraft have
been lost to the country? In any case,
a safe seat, with its freedom from cam-
wQu|d a „ ow him more
<o study the pressing problems con-
fronting us. Moreover, it proved his
broadmindedness to see the other party’s
point of view. His change of views must
inevitably bring to him a wider political
concept.
Exigencies— e.g., a row with the party
bosses—may demand that a member ex-
change one electorate for another when
an election comes round. It may also
happen that a member who at the last
election romped home with a majority
of 20,000 votes will find that seat closed
to him, and he will be compelled to con-
test on his party’s behalf a seat with a
bad “swing.” This will be a graceful
compliment to his “fighting qualities,”
and there will be expressed in the party
rooms the opinion that, “if the seat is
to be saved, he can save it!”
While the changing from one seat to
another gives a man great experience, it
throws a tremendous strain on his wits,
and for the careless member a host of
troubles is a possibility.
A case in point was Jimmy (“Bottle-
nose”) Magger, who had been in every
party, including some he’d formed him-
self, and whose electorates had ranged
from the mulga and spinifex to those
exclusive ones where voters use finger-
bowls and dine at 8.30.
Jimmy’s memory didn’t improve with
the years, and the speed with which he
changed from one electorate to another
eventually got him rattled. After some
years of representing a very industrial
suburb he got in for a middle-class resi-
dential district. Invited to open a church
bun-rush affair, he staggered the parson’s
wife by thoughtlessly asking her how
her old man had done at the dogs.
But a faux pas he committed on com-
ing straight from a long spell in a cow-
cockying district to a highly-respectable
Melbourne electorate settled his political
hash. Meeting a suburban dowager
duchess who was walking along with her
nose in the air and two Dalmatians on
a lead, he absentmindedly roared out,
“Well, missus, yer calves are lookin’ in
grand condition to-day!” What made it
doubly unfortunate for Jimmy was that
the sexagenarian society beauty happened
to be wearing a skirt in the prevailing
short mode, displaying beef-to-the-heels
legs.
The first speech that a successful can-
didate makes when he gets into Parlia-
ment is called his preliminary maiden
speech. It commences with the cryptic
word “Wattayahavin,” and, if success-
fully delivered, will add fluency to the
real maiden speech which follows.
Politicians of an older school used to
pick on a highly contentious subject for
a maiden speech, burn the midnight oil
for weeks polishing it up, and get their
friends to help them stagger into the
House with the sheaves of paper they
had written.
All that foolishness has been dispensed
with. Nowadays it is an easy matter
of tossing ten bob to an out-of-work
journalist, who will supply a good
maiden speech, well salted with abuse,
which can be learned off parrot-fashion.
S.W.K.


//
/'
//^
1
f
f
0 0
„
W3?i
Waratah fires faster . . . has speedier get-away . . .
resulting in reduced engine wear , . . it’s the high efficiency
cold weather motor spirit.
I HE most gruelling test of petrol is when your car or truck
is running under terrific loads at sustained speeds. For that
extra power use the BEST . . . Waratah.
WaRATAH gives you the utmost mileage per gallon. It*
takes you further at greater speed . . . Demand it!
WHETHER you drive a car or control fleets of commercial
vehicles, for efficiency and economy of operation it is essential
to use Waratah . . . Waratah definitely saves running costs.
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY PIT LIP
[INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.] ALL STATES
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Tin Pool
The 40 p.c. quota (second quarter of
1939) for tin production among coun-
. . . x . o, .
tries subject to operation of the restric-
tion and buffer-pool schemes will weigh
heavily enough on those large-scale low-
grade producers in the Malay States,
Siam, etc. What a chop there has been
in quotas since early in 1937, when the
~ _ ’ ,
figure stood at 110 p.c.! But some people
were expecting a quota as low as 35 p.c.
The buffer pool aims at acquiring 15,000
tons of tin by the end of this month, and
apparently everything is running to
schedule in that regard. With a quota of
35 p.c., plus 10 p.c. for the pool, world
stocks of the metal had been rising for
some months ; consumption has been low
and erratic.
At the end of February visible tin sup-
plies, including the Straits carryover,
totalled 32,036 tons, as against 27,047
tons three months earlier. At the end
oi March stocks had declined slightly,
to 30,994 tons, and consumption for
March (8110 tons) was the best for
several months.
The buffer-pool idea is to buy tin when
it falls below £2OO and sell if it rises
above £230 sterling. The metal hasn’t
reached the selling figure yet, but has
kept fairly steady at near the mean of
those quotes.
As 35 p.c. was the free quota for the
first quarter of 1939 (the other 10 p.c.
being tor the pool), the present 40 p.c.
free ff uota will mean an increase of 5 p.c.
°“ standard tonnages available for the
open market. The question arises, of
course> win the market easily absorb
this extra? Assuming that the visible
world supplies as published by the Tin
Committee include additions to the buffer
P°°T then it is possible that demand will
cope with what is actually a reduced pro-
duction but a 5 p.c. greater marketing,
Certainly the pr £ e of tin has firmed
slightly following the latest revision, and
that was contrary to some London market
opinion, which, before the latest cut,
thought that a 40 p.c. quota might equal
consumption, but that the price wouldn’t
hold in such circumstances,
stocks at the end of February stood at
about 16)000 tons more than they were a
year ear h' e r,when the price of tin was more
i ike £lBO than last week’s £216. It may
be that some addition to the buffer pool’s
stocks is still going on out of April sup-
plies . but, if that is so, then when the
J5 5 000 tons is reached there is hardly
any question about further additions to
this stock. The pool has been unable to
turn any of its tin into cash, the selling
price of £230 not having been reached
so far, and consequently it has no re-
sources to support the market further,
In effect, the only weapon it would now
appear to possess against lower prices
for the metal is its power to reduce the
production quota still further. And that
raises the question of how ready the
countries signatory to the agreement will
be prepared to follow the committee in
this respect.
There are indications that since August
last U.S.A. consumers have largely
stopped buying forward, and have been
living on their stocks. It was believed
by some that a 35 p.c. quota would have
been intimidating enough to have brought
such consumers into the market because
of fear of a sudden rise in the price. (Mere
talk of this may have been partly respon-
sible for the heavier buying in March.)
Such a movement might have enabled the
pool to get rid of some ©f its stocks at
the price it set itself, thus giving it cash
to support the market again in the future,
but it would hardly have altered the
long-term view. For, in the end, con-
sumption of the metal must govern its
price.
Quite a few observers were in favor
of a 35 p.c. quota, especially as the “in-
ternational situation” happened to make
deliberations very difficult on March 23,
but the committee said 40 p.c., and, as
already noted, the price has not yet weak-
ened as a result.
We have seen that in the U.S.A. a con-
cession in the price of steel has been fol-
lowed by increased output of motor-cars.
In Britain something similar has been
done with steel prices, and there, too,
motor-car manufacturing has shown re-
covery. The drop in the price of steel
may have been no incentive to increase
production, but it quite likely turned out
to be a real help when the manufac-
turers of cars were putting a price on
their new models. And the steel cos.
have increased their outputs as a result.
The Tin Committee may have had
some such parallel in mind when it fixed
the quota at 40 p.c. instead of 35 p.c.
With rearmament and ordinary manu-
facturing activity shaping as it is at
present in Britain and the U.S.A., wide*
use of tin may be encouraged if the price
keeps stable near its present level.
America, indeed, is reported to be con-
templating building up reserves of war
materials, and from them tin could hardly
be excluded.
The ord. shares in Australian Con-
solidated Industries (Australian Glass to
you, perhaps) were pointed out here iri
B. 22/3/’39 as representing one case of a
splitting-up of capital where no market
appreciation had taken place following
what virtually represented a subdivision
of the equities in the concern, though the
equities still possessed the same face
value of £1 each. The scrip, it was
remarked, was worth attention at 30s.
Almost immediately there was a slump
to 28s. 6d. following Hitler’s invasion of
Czechoslovakia, and for a week or two
quotes were generally below 30s. Lately,
however, there has been marked im-
provement in support for the stock, and
325. was paid before Easter.
Accounts closed on March 31. If 7 p.c.
goes out on the new scrip next term the
yield would be £4 7s. 6d. per cent. A
7 p.c. rate would represent 26i p.c. on
the old capital, which would be within
the capacity of earnings as disclosed for
1937-38.
* * * *
B.H.P. ords., B. 29/3/’39 at 555., fell
lower for a few days while the Polish
talks were on, but last week they stepped
up to 565. British Tobacco ord. shares,
also weak for a time, have recovered to
475. 9d., ex div. There have been some
other notable comebacks among indus-
trial issues, but bank shares are at the
lowest ebb for several years.
* * * *
Trade trends in the U.S.A. are, on the
surface, a good deal brighter than a year
ago. Motor-car output, always a watched-
for sign, is well up (about 65 p.c.),
and steel output has risen approximately
90 p.c. since March, 1938. Reduction
in the price of steel has apparently helped
to stimulate demand for cars, and the
new models have been widely advertised.
As usual, refinements, such as “remote”
gear-changing and independent springing,
have been pushed rapidly down the price-
scale, so that cheaper makes of cars in
many cases now have these attractions
to the “gadget-minded” motorist,
accelerating switch-overs from old to new
models and increasing manufacturers’
turnovers.
Notwithstanding the recovery from
conditions of a year ago, there is con-
siderable disappointment in the U.S.A.
with the way business is shaping. A
period of moderate prosperity was looked
for in 1939, whereas conditions now,
though much better than a year ago, are
still subject, apparently, to the shadow
of European affairs. “Profound uncer-
tainty” is how one authority sums up the
outlook. If war-scare shocks continue
to unsettle public confidence a position
may arise where manufacturers will find
themselves stocked up to excess ; though
this can be met in the motor industry
by closing down the works and selling
out of stock only, it all means stagnation
of trade.
While the New York (Dow-Jones) in-
dustrial share index fell from 141.1 on
March 27 to 129.8 on April 4, the Lon-
don industrial index came down only
from 99.1 to 98.1. Australian ’Changes
have kept more in step with London,
though, really, they have been, steadier
than any of the overseas markets, and
probably with good reason. Wool dur-
ing March kept close to the average price
for the season so far.
* * J '*
Osmiridium (Tas.) reports that for the
fortnight to March 18, 37 tons was milled
from the shaft, the drive yielding lloz.
lOdwt., sold at £2O an ounce (£230). The
drive at the 50ft. level is in 17ft., and
the manager reports that the quality of
ore is very good. Of the crushing, 12
tons represented very hard ore, of low
grade. It is exceptionally dry at Adams-
field. The tunnel is now only 75ft. from
the shaft; when this is completed a larger
weekly tonnage will be milled. Some
thousands of tons of ore are reported
to be in sight.
* * * *
Imperial Chemical Industries (Great
Britain) is linking up with Courtaulds,
the rayon people, for the purpose of
manufacturing in the U.K. nylon yarns
and fabrics, based on a new synthetic
material patented by E. I. du Pont de
Nemours and Co., of the U.S.A. “Nylon ’
is described as an entirely new synthetic
fibre, the main ingredients of which are
coal, air and water. It is claimed to
be “fully equal to real silk,” and is
cheaper to produce, though it is con-
siderably more expensive than rayon,
which is made from wood-pulp. The
more complicated method of manufac-
ture probably accounts for 1.C.1.’s interest
in the proposition.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors;
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Wmß. " ‘ l \
±-* • k . *
■9s * i ’
• * %
,-
y ’f
‘ %•,
M&. :X, ~ . : 'jf ■ ,
B . d£
k
£_
pipiHll|i!i!i!il
i «
i §
-
_
.
: :
. ■/:;■■/ . V
.
&
mm
111
I
; «. ,
&
■
■ i
/.. .
1
*'■•■■ :
m
s ■■■
mm
;
a
5,0 0 0 miLES
OF STEEL,
P l E A 5 E!“
During the next twelve months, Australian in-
dustry will absorb some 30,000 tons of sheet
steel and iron produced by the Armco-Lysaght
organisation at the Commonwealth Rolling Mills,
Port Kembla ... roughly, 5,000 miles of flawless
SHEET AND STRIP.
Yet the Armco-Lysaght organisation can be some-
thing more to you than just a supplier; it can be
a partner in progress. Behind this alliance of two
great undertakings are vast resources for re-
search, a fund of accurate knowledge based on
direct experience in every field of industry . . .
a wealth of practical information which is at the
prompt disposal of Australian manufacturers.
Armco-Lysaght offers you service in its most
practical and constructive sense . . . sheets con-
forming to the world's highest standards ... and
an assurance that their interest carries through to
successful application of the metal and the
profitable achievement of YOUR objective.
Y.
D.
THE ARMCO-LYSAGHT ORGANISATION
KEMBLA
ROAD, PORT KEMBLA
ARMCO-LYSAGHT STEEL
<. . . »■ • . •
k
BORN OF RESEARCH
CR-’r-V.
Mt. Morgan and Occidental
“Out West”: It is interesting to com-
pare the two goldmining companies that
have had so much publicity lately,
namely, Mt. Morgan and New Occiden-
tal Gold Mines. The shareholders and
directors of both cos. have had anxious
moments during the last few years.
Mt. Morgan seems to have solved most
of its technical problems and has now
reached a quiescent state after many
changes in management, directorate and
policy. New Occidental has not yet
solved all its technical problems. The
co. has a shareholders’ committee about
to investigate its affairs generally.
Interested in the outlook of both cos.,
I have made some calculations. The
following is a comparison (not intended
to be odious) of my estimate of results
during the prospective lives of the two
cos.:
Mt. Morgan. New Occidental.
Ord. shares.. 2,348,000 (2s. 6d.) 1,012,500 (55.)
Pref. shares.. 200,000 (£1) 202,200 (55.)
Ore reserves,
tons .. 7,000,000 700,000
Assaying .. 4.25dwt. gold B.2dwt. gold
(N. 0.)
7.odwt. gold
(N.C.)
1.79 p.c. copper 1.3 p.c. copper
Approx, average
extraction 30s. 61s.
(Av. of both mines)
Ratio of con-
centration,
sulphide ore 20-1 9-1
Treatment of
concentrate Smelted at mine. Shipped to
Pt. Kembla.
All-in costs 20s. 41s.
(Av. of both mines)
Profit per ton 10s. „ 20s.
Profit per ord.
share over
apparent life
of mine* 28s. 12s. lOd.
Life of mine,
years .. 15 5
Profit per share
p.a. after
deduction of
present price Is. 2.4 d., or 9.2 d„ or
12 p.c. 8.5 p.c.
* Allowing for return of pref. capital.
Looking at the two propositions in
another way, Mt. Morgan’s total recover-
able metal value is about £10,000,000,
against Occidental’s £2,100,000. The
relative costs of winning these metal
values will probably be £7,000,000,
against £1,400,000, showing a profit of
£3,000,000 to Mt. Morgan, and £700,000
to Occidental. It will be seen that the
probable profit to Mt. Morgan with
twice as many shares is four times that
of Occidental.
Mt. Morgan ore reserves are positive ;
New Occidental ore reserves, for the pur-
pose of these calculations, have been
taken as positive, plus half probable.
Likewise Mt. Morgan oxidised ore has
not been taken into account; the profit
of this can be set over against the cost
of overburden-removal.
Mt. Morgan will soon have the benefit
of two important factors, namely, (1) a
well-balanced co. and mine organisation
with a definite policy, and (2) the smelt-
ing of concentrates by the co. instead of
shipping them overseas.
New Occidental will be laboring under
four adverse factors, viz., (1) repercus-
sions from board’s recent differences ; (2)
the co. has a select committee investi-
gating its past doings (though this may
eventually help the co., for the present
it is likely to slow things up); (3)
there are unsolved mining and treatment
problems ; (4) ore reserves appear to be
limited.
At present prices I know which mine
my money would go into—if I wanted
to put cash into a goldmine.
During March base metal prices, taken
all round, were the firmest since Decem-
ber. April has opened with nervousness
evident, conditions overseas being dis-
turbing still:
Electro.
Copper, Lead, Spelter, Tin, Gold,
Ton. Ton. Ton. Ton. Fine Oz.
June ..£39.8 £14.0 £12.9 £177.6 140 s. 9d.
July .. 44.8 14.9 14.1 192.7 141 s. 3d.
Aug. .. 46.3 14.8 13.5 193.1 1425. 6d.
Sept. .. 47.6 15.2 14.0 193.9 1445. 6d.
Oct. .. 51.7 16.2 15.1 207.1 1455. 9d.
Nov. .. 51.5 16.1 14.4 214.0 1475. 7d.
Dec. ..49.4 15.1 13.7 214.6 148 s. lOd.
Jan. ..48.9 14.5 13.7 215.6 148 s. lid.
Feb. .. 47.8 14.3 13.5 214.0 148 s. 4d.
Mar. .. 48.6 14.7 13.7 215.5 148 s. sd.
April 5 49.0 14.2 13.1 215.1 148 s. 6d.
As leading metal producers have pointed
out before, war does the mining industry
no good in the long run. “Peace and
prosperity” is best. However, should
war break out, it is not unlikely that
present metal quotes will give way to
higher prices.
* * * *
For the nine months to the end of
March greasy wool sold in Sydney aver-
aged 10.5 d. a pound. The mean price
for greasy and scoured was 10.8 d., and
the cheque for the 995,640 bales realised
was £13,370,730, as against proceeds of
£15,310,151 from 922,981 bales during
the corresponding period of the previous
term.
Papua Oil Development, a subsidiary
of the Shell Co., having announced its
abandonment of the search for oil in
Papua after spending more than £430,000
since Sept., 1936, there were reactions
last week in the shape of weakened sup-
port for the shares in Oil Search and
Papuan Apinaipi. These two concerns
have no connection with the Shell enter-
prise, and have permits covering different
areas of land. Oil Search ss. shares fell
9d., to 4s. 3d., on April 1, and Papuan
Apinaipi 55.-paids dropped from ss. 6d.-
6s. to 45.-ss. 6d., sales being made eventu-
ally at ss. 6d. On Wednesday of last
week there were sales of Oil Search scrip
at 4s. Bd., 6s. being paid for Apinaipi old
shares, the new scrip changing hands at
ss. The difference indicated a “scrip
position” rather than a variation in the
intrinsic worth of the two classes of
Apinaipi paper.
Australasian Petroleum, which is look-
ing for oil in Papua and the Mandated
Territory, announced that the throwing-
in of the spqnge by the Shell people had
“no bearing” on its programme in New
Guinea. Oil Search (through Nominated
Holdings Pty.) owns 135,000 ords. in Aus-
tralasian Petroleum (it got this parcel,
plus £45,000 cash, for the work done and
interests held in New Guinea); Vacuum
Oil and Anglo-Iranian interests each took
135,000 £1 ords. for cash. Vacuum has the
right to introduce another shareholder,
who may come in on subscribing for a
further 135,000 ords. at par. Share-
holders in Oriomo Oil are interested by
reason of that co.’s interest in Oil Search,
equal to approximately 2\ Oil Search
shares for each Oriomo share.
According to E. P. Griffin, managing
director of Oil Search,
Australasian Petroleum is pursuing an
energetic policy, and it is believed that the
results so far obtained are sufficiently en-
couraging to warrant expectation of a
drilling recommendation in Papua within
the next few months. Australasian Petro-
leum, in addition to its Papuan permits,
also holds an area of 20,000 square miles
in the Mandated Territory, where investi-
gations are being pushed ahead as rapidly
as possible.
The general manager of Papuan Api-
naipi, Launcelot Owen, denied that the
search for oil in Papua had failed to
produce satisfactory results.
Very favorable structures have been dis-
covered by Papuan Apinaipi in Papua, and
the petroliferous nature of the underlying
strata at widely separated locations has
been proved by scout drilling.
The search is still in its early stages. No
drilling, other than scout drilling, which
is performed to discover or confirm struc-
ture and to determine the nature of the
strata overlying the possible sources of
commercial oil, has yet been accomplished.
The existence of commercial quantities
of oil can be proved only by major drilling
operations, and it is proposed to test the
area soon by such means. The Oiapu
structure was recommended by me for
deep drilling a year ago, and I have now
fixed the site for the first deep well.
Oil Search has 1,332,046 ss. shares out ;
Papuan Apinaipi’s issue is 250,000.
139,346 of the shares being only partly
paid-up.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Britain’s Commitment to France.
[Views similar to those expressed in this condensed
London “Sunday Times” article by “Scrutator” have
been widely aired in English newspapers since Mr.
Hore-Belisha said in effect that the British Army was
now a foreign service army, ready to put 19 divisions
in the field, compared with only six when war began
in 1914. “Scrutator,” in common with the military
correspondent of the “Times” (daily) and others, dis-
misses the fact that the most insistent call in the last
war was for man-power; they all argue on the sup-
position that the next war will be altogether different,
and contend, also, that J. Bull’s power could have
been better used in the last.]
Britain is now in close alliance with France, Mr.
Chamberlain having laid it down that “the solidarity
of interest by which France and this country are
united is such that any threat to the vital interests of
France, from whatever quarter it came, must evoke
the immediate co-operation of this country.” The
threat to vital French interests may arise out of a
quarrel in which our views are not identical with hers,
but, 5 whatever its origins, the moment she is in real
danger her danger is also ours.
That is' an argument for a close concert between
the foreign policies of our two countries ; but it is
also an argument for concerting all the military
preparations that will enable us to fulfil our obliga-
tions. Peace or war will no longer depend solely
on what we think our best policy, but on the existence
of danger to France, even though it may have been
caused by what we think is her unwise policy.
There is no such thing as limited liability in war.
If we go to war in these circumstances, the whole
of our resources are engaged to secure victory for
France as well as ourselves ; and there must be a
military understanding in advance for that object;
in war he helps twice who helps quickly. The sole
question is in what form can our help be best given.
The instinctive answer of the French is, of course,
“By fighting side by side with us as you did in the
last war.” Only, they sometimes add, let your help
come quicker than last time. They would like Britain
to adopt conscription, so that the two allies could
develop their full power at the first shock of war.
And they point out that in the next war —should
there be a next —their frontiers may be longer than
in the last and, in spite of the Maginot Lines, more
difficult to defend.
Already in Britain there is a section of opinion
which is prepared to accept the French view of the
best use to which Britain could put its army. All
the “Westerners” who thought the last war could only
be decided in France, where the enemy was strongest,
and that all efforts to shift our attack to his extremi-
ties where he was weaker were only “sideshows” ; all
the victims of the common military delusion that the
next war will be like the last; all those who are con-
vinced of the inevitability of war, and those, besides,
who regard a war between Fascism and the democratic
Powers as a holy war to be undertaken in the glee of
comradeship rather than avoided by commonsense
and reason —all these elements are more than half-
disposed to subordinate Britain’s insular traditional
strategy to the Continental conceptions of France. It
would be a calamity both to peace and to success,
should war come, if these views were to prevail.
Perhaps the strongest argument from the British
point of view is that no nation can both maintain the
mastery of the seas, take an equal part in air war-
fare and dominate finance, and at the same time
make itself a great military Power. Certainly Britain
cannot with safety, either to itself or to its friends,
again run the risk.
But lest it be thought that this is too selfish an
argument let us look at the problem from the French
point of view. Is it not possible that if Sir Henry
Wilson before the Great War had expressed the British
point of view more strongly, France, for all her in-
stinctive enthusiasm for the offensive in war, might
have avoided leaving her northern frontier almost
naked to the attacks of the enemy through Belgium?
At any rate, perfect frankness now might have a
parallel effect on a future war. It would certainly
discourage her from a repetition of the premature
offensives on the Western Front, from whose failure
the French army never completely recovered even to
th'e end of the war.
The decisive battles in the last war might have
been fought in Gallipoli or in front of Antwerp if we
had not been the left wing of the French Army.
Victory at either of those points would have shortened
the war, and been of far greater service to France
and to the common cause. Nor must it be objected
that victory in a war is not to be obtained by purely
defensive means. One great disadvantage of a war
fought out again in France is that it must last longer
not only for military but for political reasons. A
war fought in the West must inevitably be long,
because no political compromise is possible there,
but a war fought out in the East would be shorter,
if only for the reason that it would lend itself to
compromise and could be called off sooner. Nor
need the war there be a purely defensive war, for it
would be fought in conjunction with our fleet, which
by reason of its mobility can choose its point of
attack and escape the frozen war of the trenches
which prolonged the agony last time.
Great soldiers such as France has produced in
larger numbers than any country have this common
failing, that they rarely understand the nature of
sea-power and the conditions of its most effective
employment. Britain’s Navy now is stronger rela-
tively than it has ever been in European waters, and
it is at the service of France. We shall play our old
part in finance, and we shall be an equal Power with
her in the air both in numbers and in efficiency.
Beyond that our best service to the common
cause should be twofold. First, we should be wise
to keep an open mind on the best place in which to
deploy our military strength. And, secondly, we must
steadily prosecute our policy of appeasement and,
while we continue the preparations for war, draw on
our own and on French ingenuity and goodwill to
heal the secular discords of France and Germany and
to lay the foundations of a permanent peace.
War is not inevitable, and the worst disservice
that we can possibly render France is to speak and
act as if it were. On the contrary, the time may be
near when a concerted attack may be made on the
unrest which makes monstrous and crazy expenditure
on armaments necessary.
The Royal Visit to U.S.A.
[“Uncabled Additions” two weeks back included a
digest of a London “Daily Express” article by Peter
Howard directing attention to attacks in the U.S.A. on
the pending royal visit. In a London “Sunday Times”
letter, here condensed, Lord Kemsley discounts the
attacks, and points to advantages of the visit.]
Those of us who have any close knowledge of
America realise that despite all that we may read to
the contrary the British Empire and the U.S.A. are
fundamentally closer together than they have ever
been, for now we are really thinking on the same
lines.
A better moment than this could not occur for
the royal visit. The first visit of a reigning British
monarch, who has the kind of character which
Americans appreciate, at once symbolises the friend-
liness between the two countries and will go far to
foster community of thought and feeling.
The reception their Majesties will receive in
Canada and the United States will provide a striking
demonstration of the close friendship of the great
democracies, a vindication of our common ideals and
a complete rebuttal of propaganda abroad about anti-
British feeling in America.
The importance of the visit to Canada at this
moment cannot be overestimated. The welcome there
will show how strong are the bonds of the British
Commonwealth, but there is one other point which
makes the visit of special importance and timeliness.
Canada, during this year and next,-will be fight-
ing over again the battle of confederation. Provin-
cial feeling, as everyone knows, has always been
strong there: geography, racial and religious differ-
ences made it essential that Canada’s Constitution
should be a federal one if opposing forces were to be
reconciled. For some time now it has been evident
that the distribution of powers as between the
Dominion and the separate Provinces under the
British North America Act is working badly, and there
will have to be a fresh deal. A good deal of the
“provincialism” in Canada is undoubtedly short-
sighted, and the time has come for the readjustment
of powers. The presence of their Majesties at this
time will be a reminder of the importance of Canada
as a unit not only in internal affairs but as part of
the British Empire.
Hitler’s Collection-box Taxation.
(Condensed from a London “Daily Telegraph” article
by Anthony Mann.)
Germany’s Winter Relief Organisation is a compli-
cated financial machine, which resembles an iceberg
in that only a small proportion of it is visible on
the surface. It is a highly important integral part of
the involved internal economic structure of the Third
Reich. . „
The W.H.W. (as the Winter Relief Fund is called)
collected during the winter season 1937-38 the enor-
mous total of £35,000,000 in cash or kind.
Methods of collecting are, in name, at least, volun-
tary, but it is significant that the two categories which
have produced by far the greatest income every year
are “Sacrifices from Wages and Salaries” and “Sub-
scriptions from Firms and Organisations.” During
the six months from October, 1937, to March, 1938,
the former category produced approximately
£6,710,000, and the latter category £8,630,000.
Since workers of every description in Germany
are united under the control either of Labor Front or
National Socialist organisations, deductions from
income can be made on a collective basis at a fixed
rate. It would be difficult indeed for an employee to
protest against the collection at source of his “volun-
tary sacrifice.”
Enormous sums are collected as levies on firms
and professional men —in fact, anyone who makes a
profit on his business. During the winter 1937-38
the sum of approximately £6,408,400 was collected
under the allied heads: One-pot Sundays, £2,891,700 ;
street collections, £2,850,000; Day of National Soli-
darity, £666,700.
On “One-pot Sundays,” once a month, every
householder is supposed to substitute for his Sunday
lunch a single dish, all the constituents of which are
cooked in one pot, the most common type being
potato soup containing a sausage. The difference in
value between the cheap meal and the usual menu is
collected by the W.H.W. Although the majority of
families give the money without adhering to the “one-
pot” rule, this practice is officially denounced.
German restaurants on these Sundays serve no-
thing but “one-pot” and bread between the hours of
12 and 5 p.m. Approximately one-third of the price
paid goes to the W.H.W.
Regular monthly collections are made throughout
the Reich in the streets, trains, shops, restaurants
and hotels by thousands of uniformed Nazis armed
with scarlet collecting-tins. The collections usually
begin in the streets on Friday night and extend over
Saturday and Sunday.
Shopkeepers and householders are subjected to
periodical visitations by collectors —a nuisance from
which they can only free themselves by commuting
for a lump sum, thus obtaining the right to stick a
numbered “Collecting Ban” on their door. When
travellers ask for tickets at the booking-offices of rail-
way stations, they are immediately offered another
“ticket” for 10 pfennig—for the W.H.W.
On the “Day of National Solidarity” members
of the Cabinet, film actresses, Nazi members of the
House of Hohenzollern, racing motorists, comedians,
District Leaders of the Nazi party, and other well-
known Germans collect for the fund in the larger
cities and towns.
The question arises, what is done with the enor-
mous sums which are amassed every year in this way?
There can be no doubt whatsoever that by far
the greatest number of persons receiving assistance
from the W.H.W. are those who “earn insufficient” to
enable them to exist without supplementary help dur-
ing the winter—the men employed by the State to
work on the Western fortifications, the Reich motor
highways and other national undertakings. The wage
levels paid to these men are so low that their families
would inevitably starve if assistance were not forth-
coming. Industry and business, therefore, are taxed
to provide a compensation fund from which the Reich
can subsidise the workers who are unable to eke
out an existence on the wages paid by the State. It
is the task of the W.H.W. to act as taxgatherer.
Uncle Sam’s Labor Camps.
[South Africa’s Special Service Battalions for un-
employed youth have been described in two “Uncabled
Additions” articles; in the article here condensed from
London “Spectator” Erwin D. Canham describes the
working of Uncle Sam’s version of much the same
idea.]
The Civilian Conservation Corps is one of the
most remarkable and generally praised achievements
of the Roosevelt Administration. It illustrates
democracy’s planning at its best; it is the regenera-
tion of foot-loose, despondent youth without the least
flavor of endoctrination.
From city street corners, from hobo jungles,
from idleness and worse, no fewer than 2,000,000
young American men have been taken during the last
six years, sent to the fields, forests and mountains,
given training, work and education for periods run-
ning from six months to two years, and returned to
civilian life bronzed, clear-eyed, keen citizens. Stretch-
ing from Alaska to the Caribbean, from Maine to
Hawaii, are more than 4000 separate camps where
300,000 young men between the ages of 17 and 24
are continuously enrolled.
They are working 40 hours a week at various
forms of conservation: afforestation, erosion control,
road- and trad-building, bridge-construction, fire-fight-
ing and -prevention, park-building. They are study-
ing many hours a week at different forms of carefully-
planned educational and vocational training. They
are visibly improving the face of America, and almost
as visibly taking care of youth at the most dangerous
point in its cycle, and the economic cycle as well.
The regular C.C.C. enrollees are paid S3O a
month, and of this not less than $22 must be allotted
to dependants or placed on deposit. On the average,
each C.C.C. lad is helping to care for slightly more
than four dependants. He receives, of course, full
subsistence, equipment, educational facilities and
transportation. Since its inception a few weeks after
President Roosevelt’s inauguration in 1933, the entire
programme has cost just under $2,000,000,000. It has
supported and trained 2,250,000 men, including some
war veterans, Indians and territorials in addition to
the regular youths. Of the total expenditure, over
half has gone for wages, and of that sum about five-
sixths has assisted directly in the support of depen-
dants outside the corps.
The value of the physical conservation work
done has been very great, although it is difficult to esti-
mate. The value of human moral conservation is
far greater. To-day there is an outlet for the energies
of any American youth between the ages of 17 and
24, an opportunity for a splendid outdoor life, excel-
lent education and practical vocational training.
The C.C.C. is, of course, peculiarly adapted to
the United States, which has a great deal of conserva-
tion work to do, and a vast area of public domain
which needs improvement. The C.C.C. lads work on
this land chiefly.
Enrolment—entirely voluntary and handled by
the United States Employment Service and affiliated
State agencies—is for a period of six months, and lads
may re-enrol up to a total of two years’ service. A
separate Governmental agency handles the corps,
although the War Department is responsible for
administration of the camps. Each camp is directed
by a camp commander, usually a reserve officer of
the army, navy or marine corps, of the army rank
of captain or first lieutenant, who has been called
from civilian life for duty.
The work done by the camps is determined
through co-operation with many Governmental
agencies, such as the Forest Service, the National
Park Service and the Soil Conservation Service. The
educational programmes are in charge of the United
States Office of Education. No military training is
offered. There will be a camp formation once a day,
but no regular drill. Discipline is not so rigid as in
military units ; life is generally pretty carefree.
However, it is obvious that C.C.C. enrollees have
undergone much of the physical conditioning, da ll !'
ing in communal life and general preparation which
is essential to military training. They would make
the finest possible sort of army recruits, and much
of their practical training would be useful to military
service. The C.C.C. boys have gained self-reliance,
their educational background has been filled ou
along practical lines, they have travelled and lived in
camp, they have learned to use many machines, in
economic advantages lie not only in the rescue an
regeneration of youths at a critical stage in
lives, not only in the conservation work done in ever.


i:
1
to
New Guinea
& Papua
At your request we shall
be pleased, to forward
Folder No. 99.
Four and a half weeks’ tour of the South
Sea Islands crowded with a succession of
picturesque vistas, novel and amusing inci-
dents and the delights of a sea voyage
under the best conditions.
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages and
colourful native life, offer a never-ending
source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses —you live on
the vessel throughout. Fares are free of
exchange.
BURNS, PHILP
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
CO. LTD.
• Telephone: 87901
AUSTRALIA TO EUROPE
VIA AMERICA
Travel across the Atlantic
by the Giant Vessels of the
COMPAGNIE GENERALE TRANSLANTIQUE
(French Line)
From NEW YORK TO ENGLAND.
I 3th May, 1939—“1ie de France,” from New York
25th ~ 1939—“ Champlain,” ~ ~ ~
*3lst ~ 1939 “Normandie,” ~ ~ ~
6th June, 1939—“1ie de France,” ~ ~ ~
13th ~ 1939—" Champlain,” ~ ~ ~
* 14th ~ 1939—“Normandie,” ~ ~ ~
21st ~ 1939—“1ie de France," ~ ~ ~
27th „ 1939—“ De Grasse,” „ „ „
*2Bth ~ 1939—“Normandie,” ~ ~ ~
Ist July, 1939—“ Champlain,” ~ ~ ~
* “Normandie,” largest vessel in the world.
Travel from Australia to England via America
—book your reservations before leaving.
Accommodation and full particulars:
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
Travel Department 7 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 87901
and at
Melbourne, Adelaide, Fremantle, Brisbane, Auckland, N.Z., Wellington, N.Z.
corner of the country, but in their future earning value
to the nation. From untrained, unconditioned street-
and pub-loungers, they have been turned into men
equipped to earn their living.
Italy’s Strength in Africa.
(i Condensed from a London “Spectator” article by
George Steer.)
It is the common view among the experts in Eng-
land that Ethiopia will be a total loss to Italy in the
event of general war. Ethiopia, they say, guarantees
that Italy will not fight. If she does, her garrison in
the highlands will be smashed by tribal revolt within
a few weeks ; we will arm the brave Ethiopians and
it will all be as easy as running away.
The experts are always wrong. They were wrong
about the organised Italo-Ethiopian war, which they
said would last for two years (when the disregarded
people who had actually seen Ethiopia and the
Ethiopians and their arms supplies told London that
it would last six months). They are wrong about
Ethiopian resistance to-day, for the same reason that
they will not listen to the only competents on the
spot, the French. They are wrong about the future.
Ethiopian resistance, though widespread and
bitter, will not be able to tie the Italian army to the
plateau for two reasons, of which more in a moment.
For a third, which is the shortness of their supply,
the Italians would be bound to take the offensive.
Fqr the fourth, which is our own indolence, they
might very well beat us.
The Ethiopian insurgents in time of war would be
powerless to halt an invasion of the Anglo-Egyptian
Sudan or of French Somaliland because its com-
munications do not traverse their area, and because
they have learnt the folly of attacking entrenched and
wired positions without artillery. Italy, in case of
war, can without difficulty detach as many as 40,000
men for an offensive operation outside the boundaries
of Italian East Africa.
France is already taking her precautions. She
has multiplied the garrison of Djibouti by four ; the
little sandy bay bristles with anti-aircraft batteries ;
she has heavy artillery and much war material in
store ; and she has dug yet one more ligne Maginot.
She cannot be rushed, and can defend herself for a
long time. Not so the British. The defencelessness
of the Sudan has to be seen to be believed. An abso-
lute maximum of 10,000 men, including only two
British battalions, could be mustered for the defence
of Khartoum ; 3000 of these would take about a
week to concentrate ; the aircraft ready for battle is
a squadron of old Vickers-Vincents which could not
take the air against the Italian types.
Between Khartoum and Kassala, opposite Tes-
senei, 300 miles of road stretch over easy country,
inviting Italy to come by charabanc to Kitchener’s
city, the capital of the Sudan! The Italians have been
for this sort of ride before. In January, 1936, General
Graziani inflicted upon the Ethiopians, commanded
by Ras Desta, their first defeat of the war. He broke
them after three days’ fighting north of Dolo, then
pursued them to their base at Negelli, over 200 miles
away, with a motorised column that was protected by
fighting and reconnaissance ’planes. The column cov-
ered 50 miles a day along a barely recognisable track.
I have never exaggerated the value of the Italian
infantry. They are poor material compared with our
Sudanese and their English officers. But it is not
martial spirit, it is cold units of firepower and air-
power that can disperse our army in the Sudan, and
bare the road to Khartoum ; and 300 miles means a
week. The Italian army in East Africa would be
forced to break out of Ethiopia in time of war;
because war will mean more violent indiscipline in the
plateau, cutting off stores of grain and fodder ; and
because Italy is believed to have stored only two to
three months’ supplies of food and petrol for her
costly garrison. To fight a defensive war means
starvation and paralysis in the short run.
But to take Khartoum, which is so easy, means
not only enormous prestige in the Nile Valley, terror-
ising Egypt into neutrality before a threat of invasion
from the south which she has never planned to meet;
it holds out the final hope that contact may be made
with the forces in Libya, by whom alone the Ethiopian
army can be fed. The transfer of one British division
to the Sudan to-day would reduce to nothing the
threat to Khartoum and therefore to Djibouti. One
would have thought that the transfer of 30,000 troops
to Libya would give the Imperial Government the
opportunity, to take this step without an appearance
of aggression.
The Soviet Puts It Over J. Bull.
[Before getting down to arranging new business
on his visit to Moscow, Mr. R. S. Hudson, Secretary
to the Department of Overseas Trade, would have
some straightening out to do on the existing one-
sided arrangements, as indicated by Montague Smith
in this condensed London “Daily Mail” article.]
No one in Britain with a knowledge of the situa-
tion thinks that the present state of British trade rela-
tions with Russia is satisfactory. The Federation of
British Industries and the Chambers of Commerce
have been hammering away at the Government for
many months to get it altered. They complain that
the Soviet keeps the letter of an agreement, but not
the spirit, and also seeks to make one-sided bargains.
The mistake made in the 1934 agreement was in
specifying “payments” without relation to what they
might be for. Undoubtedly the other side got the
better of Britain in that agreement. For the fact is
that, while Russia sold Britain goods to the value of
£19,000,000 and bought in return goods to the value of
£16,500,000, only £6,500,000 worth were British manu-
factures. The rest —£10,000,000 worth —were what
the economists call “re-exports,” that is to say, goods
bought and sold in transit through Britain, and which
hardly gave any employment to British workmen.
On the other hand, the principal item in British
purchases from Russia was timber —to the value of
approximately £5,750,000 —which needs extensive
labor to hew and ship. All the goods Britain bought
from Russia were Russian products.
' Also, in arriving at the balance of “payments”
the Russians include such items as the cost of main-
taining their trade delegation in London, and these
devices have enabled them to assert with truth that
they have kept the letter of the bargain.
There is another matter, too, in which there
should be a radical alteration. More of the mer-
chandise passing between the two countries must be
carried in British ships. The present position is
ludicrous and humiliating. The Russian Government
insists that all the goods purchased in Great Britain
shall be carried to Russia in Russian ships and Rus-
sian ships only, while in the reverse direction nearly
three-quarters of the cargoes carried from Russia to
Britain are also in Russian vessels.
Thus, mainly at Britain’s expense, Russian ship-
ping—as a Government monopoly —increased from
301,000 tons in 1927 to 1,254,000 tons in 1937 —an
increase of 300 per cent, in 10 years.
When Mr. Hudson has got these two matters
straightened out —a better balance of trade in manu-
factured goods, and fair play for British shipping—
he might also deal with one other serious hindrance
to good trade between the two countries. It seems
almost incredible, but is a fact, that the Russian Gov-
ernment refuses to allow the appointment of British
Consuls in Russia, and appoints none of her own in
Britain! If a British trader wants to go to Russia to
do business he can only do so by going first to some
foreign capital, such as Paris, to get his passport
visa’d at the Russian office there. And the Russian
coming to Britain has to go to Berlin or somewhere
else first.
The time is ripe for the removal of these —shall
we say?—misunderstandings.
Flaws in the Colonies Claim.
[The article here condensed from London "Daily
Telegraph” is by George L. Steer, who recently visited
all the former German colonies in Africa specially for
that paper.]
Raw materials and living room are the stock in
trade of the Nazi phrasemakefs in the colonial cam-
paign. That campaign warms up in winter, when the
concepts of raw materials and living room carry most
significance for the German people. For it is in the
cold weather that they feel most the pressure of the
four-year plan on their lives, exerted by a reduction
of quality, if not quantity, of clothing, food, fuel.
Raw materials ; living room. How much of each
is there in old German Africa? The German Empire,
it is fair to remember, was almost entirely in Africa ;
and Herr Hitler himself has excluded the rest by
saying that he does not want colonies in Asia.
A lot of fancies about colonies need pricking.
Particularly buoyant is the view that colonies are the
sources of the world’s raw materials. They are not.
The League of Nations Committee on Raw Materials
of 1937 found that only 3 p.c. of the world’s raw
materials were produced by colonies, the rest by
sovereign States.
If all her former colonies in Africa were returned
to her, Germany would, on the face of it, receive
£23,000,000 extra foreign trade. On the face of it
only ; for she is not fitted to manufacture the prin-
cipal African imports, cheap cotton cloths and rubber
shoes and other forms of “civilised” wearing apparel,
the purchase of which is the native’s sole inducement
to produce for a cash economy. Nor can she absorb,
for instance, as much as half the sisal that Tangan-
yika produces.
Destruction of the freetrade system in all the
mandated territories except South-West Africa (which
is subject to the South African tariff) would lead to
reprisals against Germany’s trade in the rest of Africa.
The mark is a sensitive plant, and Germany would
have to close the colonial door against us in order
that it should survive ;we would then close ours; the
day of colonial visiting would be over, as much to
Germany’s damage as to ours.
The figure of £23,000,000, therefore, is very much
a maximum for the benefit which would accrue to
Germany following a total surrender of colonies.
Given a ruthless labor law which took no account
of native rights, and on the assumption that German
military expenditure to enforce it would be nil —a
most doubtful provision after 20 years of native
economic liberty—the exports and imports of South-
West Africa could be increased to one and a half
times their present value ; those of Tanganyika could
be about doubled ; and those of the Cameroons a
little less than doubled.
The military expenditure to give this 7 p.c. to the
Reich would really be very heavy indeed. The
severest measures would have to be used to wring
work out of the native. And even to-day in Tangan-
yika and the Cameroons alike the sources of native
labor have dried up ; there are not enough men to go
round.
To turn to the question of “living room,” within
the next generation the former German Empire in
Africa will be able to maintain less than 90,000
whites —will be able to give living room to one-tenth
per cent, of the total population of the new German
Empire in Europe to-day. In other and franker words,
“raw materials” and “living room” are equal non-
sense ; the economic recovery promised to the Ger-
man public by the colonial propaganda will be proved
a myth if the colonies are surrendered ; and Germany
will therefore remain unsatisfied, her territorial glut-
tony unfed.
But two of the richest areas in Africa would lie
within the range of her bombing ’planes: the Rand,
with its £70,000,000 of gold a year, a bottomless gold
reserve in the vaults of Nature herself ; the Katanga
mines, ready to supply more than the annual require-
ments of Germany in copper, which is one of her six
essential raw-material needs.
The temptation to “cash in” on the new colonial
position and on an unchallenged air supremacy will
be great. In the view of the Union and Rhodesian
Governments, as of British settlers in East Africa,
Nazi resistance to temptation will be no less feeble
than it has proved in Europe.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
In a review of the weights here printed
on March 15, The Bulletin picked
Gold Rod for the Doncaster, and other
expressions of its confidence in him
appeared on March 29 and April 5. With
63,000 people looking on, the big
chestnut justified them at Rand-
wick on Saturday. Having had a long
preparation he never looked better, and
evidently he could have gone to the
front at any stage of the journey, which
was traversed in 1.37.
For weeks before the race, eights and
better could be got about Gold Rod,
and eights were laid at Williamstown
on Saturday. At Randwick when betting
opened 6 to 1 was the general quotation,
but sevens could be heard. When it was
seen that McCarten’s mount would start
from No. 4 position, the Ring shortened
the odds to fours. Some bookmakers
asked 7to 2, and even threes; but Gold
Rod backers would not take those prices,
and back he went to fours. Tote divi-
dends for ss. were £1 7s. s.o. and 14s.
for a place.
Bookmakers expected The Trump to
start favorite, and made their arrange-
ments accordingly. But the public
wouldn’t have him, and Eccles’s little
horse drifted to eights. St. Constant was
solid at sixes, and there was support for
Caesar (at tens), Korimako and Bobby
(twelves), Creditor, Bramol and Mildura
(fourteens).
Gold Rod left the barrier smartly,
and McCarten allowed him to run along
behind the pacemakers, Heroic Faith and
Creditor, to the top of the straight. When
Heroic Faith had had enough, Creditor
shot to the front, but Gold Rod soon
settled him, as he did King’s Head—
second with a furlong to go. Then Kori-
mako and St. Constant came into the pic-
ture. Both ran on gamely, but neither
ever looked like catching Gold Rod, who
won well by half a length from Kori-
mako, who was a length and a half ahead
of St. Constant. Creditor was fourth,
Bramol fifth —there was little between
them—King’s Head, Bradford, Hamurah
and Bobby next; Mildura, Gold Rod’s
stable companion, was last —of 18.
Among the also-rans Bobby’s per-
formance was the most striking. The
stable couldn’t get a strong boy, and the
apprentice, Clinton, was of little use to
him. The Newcastle horse was a long
way out of his ground to the home turn.
The three Melbourne horses shaped
poorly ; but Bradford’s run suggested an
early win. He had to be checked off
Amiable’s heels.
Gold Rod is owned by A.J.C. com-
mitteeman E. J. Watt and is trained by
George Price, who prepared Cuddle when
she scored in 1936. The son of Chief
Ruler-Oreum has now won 14 races
and, in prize-money, £IB,OOO. McCarten
rode a perfect race, which is more than
can be said for his riding of Spear Chief.
This Page has twice picked Spear
Chief to beat Defaulter, and each race
has left it with the conviction that he
was unlucky not to do it. It doesn’t
regard him as a better horse, but at
Warwick Farm he was in better condi-
tion, and this was also the case at Rand-
wick, though the Maoriland colt had
obviously improved in the meantime.
At Warwick Farm, Spear Chief lost
the Chipping Norton Stakes by half a
neck, and McCarten vainly protested. At
Randwick the Queensland horse was just
about to make things interesting for
Defaulter and Allunga when, trying to
move up on the inside, he struck the rail
hard. He wasn’t badly hurt, but he
dropped back immediately and couldn’t
raise another effort. Had he got that
narrow passage, or had McCarten taken
him to the outside when Defaulter and
Allunga were fighting it out, he would
probably have done what he did on the
Rosehill course at Ajax’s expense.
As at the Farm, Ellis, on Defaulter,
made the running, and made it slow.
Munro, on Allunga, kept close to him,
and when Spear Chief met with his
mishap Defaulter’s advantage over
Allunga was only half a length. At the
home turn Munro drove the old horse
hard, and he quickly ran to Defaulter.
Approaching the last furlong Allunga
got his head in front, and up went the
old cry, “The favorite’s beat.” He
wasn’t; he raised another effort and won
by a head. A game performance, but
anything but a great one. L’Aiglon,
lengths away, was a fair third. The time
was slow — Defaulter was 3 to 1
on.
If High Caste really cost Tancred
7000 guineas he wasn’t worth it. Though
the immense colt won two races in Mel-
bourne, he failed at Warwick Farm,
and his second in the Sires’ Produce
Stakes was anything but impressive.
Starting at 9 to 4 on, he was fairly and
squarely beaten by Reading, who was a
14-to-l chance. Reading showed bril-
liancy at the beginning, and hung on
stoutly when challenged by the favorite.
He scored comfortably by half a length,
Cardinal Puff being 2\ lengths back third.
Wilson, Victorian-owned and -trained,
was last early, and that was the end of
him in a fast-run seven furlongs (1.25|);
he ran on pretty well and finished sixth.
The reverse way of running obviously
bothered him, as he did not stride out
until the straight was in sight.
Reading is raced by Gordon Luscombe,
known as the owner of Gold Digger, and
by a Mendooran businessman, F. P. J.
Manusu. He is trained by J. T. Cush
at Moorefield.
On a bad day for Tancred and
Jamieson, High Caste’s stablemate, Res-
pirator, 10 to 9 for the St. Leger, went
down badly. Windbag’s son essayed to
lead throughout, and was never com-
fortable. Limulet had his measure two
furlongs from home. But it was reserved
for Mosaic, with the last run, to down
both. Mosaic, who has grown into a
nice colt, was ridden by McCarten and
started at twos. The others, Anpapejo,
Aristocrat and Astounding, were out-
classed.
Barrels of money were lost on
Sedunum, who was supported from
sevens to 7 to 2 in the Vaucluse Handi-
cap. He also was ridden by McCarten,
but finished nearer last than first. Little
Diamond Wedding (6 to 1) dashed off
with the lead from the rails and was
never caught; eased up by Lappin, she
won by four lengths from Tuhitarata,
with Bodley Head third. Parlance was
fourth, and Arabia showed pace while
his condition lasted. Diamond Wedding
is owned by A.J.C. committeeman Reg
Allen. Although on the small side she
has a lot of pace.
If the A.J.C. had done its own picking
it couldn’t have had more delightful
weather for the second day of the
autumn meeting on Monday. Bar a
pocket-handkerchief cloud or two, it was
a clear sky and bright sunshine with a
cool breeze when the eight fillies went to
the post for the Easter Plate, run over
“seven,” the first test of some of them
over a moderate bit of distance. It went
to Sydney’s best proved two-year-old filly,
Waireka (Waikare-Miss Molong), an-
other winner for Gold Rod’s owner.
The Winooka-Anne Veronica filly
Anne ran up to her good Melbourne per-
formances, making something of a race
of it over the last bit to go down by
half a length, after being the first out,
but then checked a couple of times. The
Gimcrack Stakes winner, Merry Smile,
led to the turn from Anne and Waireka,
but into the straight McCarten shot
Waireka to the front, and she won like
a good ’un. The Harinero-Corsage filly
Bona Fide sustained a good finishing run
to take third money.
Handily down in the weights with 7.4,
Bodley Head further demonstrated his
liking for the Randwick “six” by winning
the La Perouse Handicap from the top-
weight, Hamurah, and Micawber in a
fairly close finish and the good time
of lmin. l(Hsec. One of the smartest
out, Bodley Head was quickly passed by
Creditor, Heroic Faith and Delmestor.
Heroic Faith was in front at the,turn, but
on straightening up Munro took Creditor
to the front, with Bodley Head pressing
him, Hamurah and Micawber close up
and Caesar making a great run from last
to be up with the leaders. Caesar failed
over the last bit, but was close to the
place-getters. Official margins, half-
length, a length.
With only 21b. increase on the weight
she carried in a runaway victory on the
Saturday, and Creditor and Tuhitarata
course scratchings, Diamond Wiedding
looked to have a mortgage on the Bira-
ganbil; but the figures came undone, and
Pen Name, who also missed a place, had
most to do with it. Kept going with
Diamond Wedding over the first half of
the distance, Pen Name made the El
Cacique mare carry all her 9st., and shot
away from her, to lead by three lengths
into the straight. There Diamond Wed-
ding was floundering, and Pen Name, too,
quickly turned it in when challenged by
The Squire, who went on to string up
another win for the highly-successful
Watts-Price-McCarten combination, with
Baveon second and Pantier third.
Despite his 71b. penalty for winning
the St. Leger, Mosaic (Posterity-Inlaid)
won the Sydney Cup for his owner-
trainer, J. H. Abbs, clipping quarter
of a second off the record. Bartle
rode a nicely-judged race on the
winner, coming from a fair way back
to join the leaders, L’Aiglon and
Malagigi, with about a furlong to go.
Malagigi showed momentarily in front,
but the two miles found him out —the
Maorilander had not had quite enough
racing. The other Maorilander, De-
faulter, never at any stage looked like
sharing in the prize-money, but he was
set a tremendous task, and his owner
showed the right spirit in letting him
tackle it.
McCarten, on Young Crusader, was
responsible for no loafing on the way.
Racing quickly to the front, Young
Crusader led Jan Baz and Feminist out
of the straight, but was never allowed to
get much of a break on the field. Young
Crusader bowled along in front to near-
ing the turn, where L’Aiglon ran past
him, to lead Jan Baz, Malagigi and Femi-
nist, with Mosaic setting out after them.
With a furlong to go, Malagigi had a
slight lead from Mosaic and L’Aiglon,
but soon after weakened, and Mosaic,
finishing splendidly, was a length and a
half clear from L’Aiglon at the judge’s
box, with Malagigi another length and
a half away, and Feminist in fourth place.
Time, 3.21£.
Feminist was favorite at fives. She ran
a peculiar race shifted about a lot,
though always one of the first four.
Mosaic was at tens and twelves.
The second race of the day for
youngsters, the Wentworth Handicap,
went to the topweight, Bonny Loch
(Rampion-Bonnie Valerie), carrying the
tidy burden of 9st. 51b., and nicely ridden
by Munro, with Fortune second and
Tobasco third.
* * * *
Regular Bachelor, winner of the
Futurity Stakes and Newmarket Handi-
cap of 1936, has run his last race, and
will go to the stud next season. R. P.
Trihey patched him up after trouble in
one fetlock joint, but when the other
also gave way he realised the futility of
persevering with a stallion that is rising
eight years. While in training Regular
Bachelor served a couple of mares, who
have colt foals at foot resembling their
sire in color. One of these mares, Maid
of Kentdale, by imported Fourth Hand,
belongs to P. G. Hay, the Richmond
brewer, with whom Trihey has a half-
interest in the progeny.
* * * *
Harry Boan, the Perth (W.A.) draper,
put a pound on Gem for the second divi-
sion of the Maiden Two-year-old at Wil-
liamstown purely out of sentiment. Boan
won the Williamstown Cup of 1934 with
Gothic Gem, who sired the little filly.
Towards the close of his racing career
Gothic Gem was trained by the late A.
Ferguson, whose son, S.B., was given per-
mission to mate Reeflaw with the black
stallion. Reeflaw is the dam of Gem.
Yearlings by Gothic Gem will come under
the hammer in Perth this week ; he is in
the stud of D. E. Grant, who raced
Mistico.
Gem’s victory was one of many Wil-
liamstown surprises. Starting at sixes,
she downed the 5-to-4-on favorite,
Cavante. The first-division winner, Tos-
canini (Madagascar-Dame Opera), paid
£8 17s. for 5s. on the tote. She belongs
to T. C. Manifold, of the V.R.C. com-
mittee, who is attending the Easter races
in Sydney.
Favorite (at 6 to 4) for Toscanini’s race
was Hullabaloo, an Excitement gelding
trained by Des McCormick. He failed
to show true form, but may do better
soon. Birthday Girl, dam of Hullabaloo,
was sent out from England by Robinson
and Clark. She broke down in training
King Gee simply cannot “break it” in
Melbourne. With only 7.13—the appren-
tice claimed 71b.—he ought to have
accounted for Easter Stakes rivals at Wil-
liamstown. Melbourne punters have tired
of backing the Violoncello stallion. He
started at sevens and just missed a place.
The only short-priced winner of the
afternoon was Sir Grey (5 to 2), who
beat Mutable and Plymouth Hoe in the
Easter Stakes very comfortably. At one
time banned on metropolitan courses, Sir
Grey has mended his manners wonder-
fully since Ted Temby took him in hand.
Mutable, the runner-up, is coming back
to the form that enabled him to win the
Australian Cup of 1937. Other unplaced
horses revealed some promise. Sir Regent
did most of the pacemaking. Prairie
Moon (Oaks, 1937) ran up to him at the
half-mile after being last.
The Werribee Highweight went to
Hautboy, trained by Bill Burke for W. P.
Mein. Early in the season this fellow
landed the Epsom Cup, but he sustained
injury during the spring meetings and
subsequently had an attack of tonsilitis.
Silver Reign (tens) looked to have the
race in hand until Hautboy challenged.
The third horse, Fearnought, was rather
unlucky, but no excuse can be offered for
Our Boy (5 to 2, favorite). He labored
in the rear far too long.
Ronolive (Ronsard-Mount of Olives),
whose dam is a half-sister to Manolive,
was next in demand to Red Morn for
the Seaside Handicap. She brilliantly
beat Larissa by half a length, with Red
Morn a moderate third.
First division of the Point Cook Trial
was annexed by the well-backed Bob Oh.
By half a head Ellison defeated F. P.
Smith’s Queen Esther in the second divi-
sion, but a protest for interference was
upheld. Panto’s brother, Swettenham,
once more proved a false favorite. E. A.
Underwood, who races Swettenham, told
a friend before the race “He’s a cow of
a horse.” Whereupon the friend added,
“Yes, more cow than horse.”
The Monday meeting at Williamstown
opened with Dornford giving his backers
a wonderful run for their money over
the battens. Leading practically from
the start, he beat off five separate chal-
lengers who ranged up to him succes-
sively over the last mile, and, though he
blundered a bit at the final jump, still
won nicely from North Cape, with Peter
Thrice a long way back and none of the
others in sight. *
Williamstown’s Easter Cup, run over
1| miles, was won by Son of Aurous,
who joined the pacemaker, Lautus, at
the three-furlongs and had a handy lead
when they turned for home. Mutable,
close up in second or third position
throughout, made a run at the leaaei
half-way down the straight, but with
his much lighter burden Son of Aurous
was not really troubled to run ,, ome -.r
comfortable winner from Mutable, wit
Lautus third.
C Continued on page 32.)
FOR RANDWICK.
All-Aged Plate: Ajax ; next, Gold
Rod.
Coogee Handicap: St. Constant
or Bobby ; next, Sedunum.
Bronte Handicap: Micawber;
next, Let Slip.
Cumberland Plate: L’Aiglon;
next, Spear Chief.
City Handicap: St. Constant or
Feminist; next, Bristol.
C. W. Cropper Plate: Ajax ; next,
Gold Rod.
A.J.C. Plate: L’Aiglon; next,
Spear Chief.
Rous Handicap: Bradford or
Bodley Head.
Woollahra Handicap: Bradford
or Bramol.
Dangar Handicap: Feminist or
Marauder.
Final Handicap: Cooranga or
Sedunum.
FOR MENTONE.
Powerscourt Handicap: Ply-
mouth Hoe ; next, Gladiolious.
Boisdale Welter: Hautboy ; next,
Silver Reign.
Tinamba Handicap: Kanuri ;
next, Temple Coyn.


!U
Here’s a favourite
that’s always a winner!
Your most - fancied horse may fail you, but Johnnie
Walker is always true to form. Many fine whiskies, each
one specially chosen for its distinctive character, each
one fully matured in the wood, meet together in the
blend of Johnnie Walker. The result is always the same
—Scotch Whisky at its best and smoothest. Always ask
for Johnnie Walker by name. Johnnie Walker is
obtainable in the famous square bottle and in handy
flasks of smaller size.
JOHNNIE
WAhKER
wallas away with it!
BORN 1820- STILL GOING STRONG
John Walker & Sons Ltd., London, Kilmarnock, Sydney
J.W. 95.8


sss s
iSSSi,
■
::uf'&Zrni
¥\
you can depend on
CHAMPION wts
for SPEED
Speed, properly used, increases
the pleasure of motoring. To get
the best speed from your car
without sacrificing economy, in-
stall new Champions. These are
the plugs racing champions use
with constant success on land,
in the air and on the water.
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Can..
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
•'"CHECK AND CLEAN-SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL ,r-
tz
6
'ltvue tkecM
hall the tune
It’s easier to walk than to work —and using a Kismet Foot
Pump is just like walking! You simply “step on it” and the
patent double-cylinder action operates with a supercharger
effect to inflate tyres in half the usual time. No bending-
no puffing—no time-wasting! There’s an accurate Kismet
Gauge fitted for correct pressure-checking, too.
PRICE 95/-.
An eng.ncer’s job—built to outlast several cars.
A real investment for any motorist.
2 CYLINDER-2 STAGE
FOOT PUMP
Manufactured by WM. TURNER & BRO., LTD., SHEFFIELD, ENG.
Factory Representative in Australia:
JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. BOX 71,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
KISMET
Under the Whip
It was half expected by ad-
mirers of Woolcott-Forbes, that shattered
idol of racing reporters, that he would
bob up at Randwick on Doncaster day ;
but he wasn’t sighted. When it trans-
pired that the bird had flown from Bom-
bay, it was surmised that he had gone
to Goa. Possibly he has disguised him-
self as a P. and O. steward, the Goanese,
who has a dash of Pork-and-beans blood,
being traditionally the mainstay of the
P. and O. food-earrying department. A
difficulty is that Forbes or Brandei or
whatever his name is is a thought massive
for the part.
* * * *
“Chatter”: One of those celebrities
whom sporting scribes follow round the
ring, and refer to with deep respect as
“dashing punters,” is known as ‘“The
Jap.” Fie is a Sydney silk merchant, and
he is alleged to have brought off some
spectacular coups. It is questionable,
however, whether he has ever been so
much ahead of it as a syndicate of Thurs-
day Island Japanese who drew Carbine
' in Tatt.’s sweep on the most memorable
of all Cups, and divided £24,000. It was
headed by a hash-house keeper, and
“Thirsty” was so impressed with his muni-
ficence that it solemnly petitioned Bris-
bane to make him a J.P. Three of his
partners returned to Japan by the first
boat, first going on a roaring drunk. They
were still sozzled when their ship came
in, and “Thirsty,” a bit that way itself,
gave them a proud and sad farewell. The
Sydney punter, they say, never touches it.
Nothing unusual in that; “stone ginger”
is the favorite tipple of hundreds of
others who try to pick ’em—on race-days,
anyway.
* * * *
Many Doncaster-Sydney Cup doubles
went west when Early Bird was scratched.
The filly was knocked about in the Chip-
ping Norton Plate at Warwick Farm,
and her injuries, though not serious, did
not respond to treatment in time. It
is improbable that she would have won
the Doncaster with Valicare’s weight,
but an Epsom or even a Caulfield Cup
should not be beyond her, provided she
trains on. She is a daughter of The
Buzzard, and nearly all the progeny of
that now-established sire improve with
age.
$ * * *
“Jamwood”: The owners of Spear
Chief were reported to have said last week
that they were willing to back their stout
descendant of Carbine against Ajax in
a special race for £2OOO a side, and that
at Ajax’s favorite distance, a mile and
a quarter. Harris hastened to deny it,
but he needn’t have worried, it being
so obviously the intention to reserve
Ajax for the cottonwool champion-
ship or something. Memories of the
magnificent contests between Cruciform
and Wakeful and the thrilling Beaufort-
Gloaming series were revived when it
was known that Defaulter was to be sent
to Australia by the younger Greenwood,
but to the disgust of the club and of the
Australian public, without whose support
there would have been no huge prize-
money for the Ajax syndicate, there is
to be no repetition—this autumn, at any
rate. Harris, by the way, used to be
known in Randwick as “Joe, the grocer-
boy,” and doesn’t mind admitting it.
“Bite me, would y'?”
Alan Cooper gave Sydney another look
at his £19,000 horse, Talking, bringing
him down from Segenhoe for the thor-
oughbred competition at the Show. The
judge was Dick Wootton, and the veteran
placed Talking third to Hua and Break
Up. He wasn’t in good show condition,
and Wootton commented that his de-
velopment had obviously bden retarded
by the leg injury that caused premature
retirement from racing, but pronounced
him “most attractive from the front.” The
old-timer (he is that now, for it is 40
years since he took a team to South
Africa) had nothing but praise for Hua,
who has grown into a magnificent horse.
There is small doubt that these stallions
will carry on the good work done by
Valais and Magpie, who have helped so
noticeably to restore the old renown of
the Australian racehorse.
* * * *
A. W. Coles, Melbourne’s Lord Mayor,
is the latest moneyed man in that city
to become a turf patron. Knight Harold
Luxton, who filled the mayoral chair for
several years, gave 400 guineas on behalf
of the present occupant for a yearling
colt by Gay Lothario. Luxton himself
has had no luck as an owner. Gengoult
Smith, when Lord Mayor, leased a filly
from C. B. Kellow and raced it in his
wife’s name, James Scobie being the
trainer. As Princess Cynthia, this young-
ster won a two-year-old handicap, but
it was weedy, and did not train on. Gen-
goult’s father, Dr. L. L. Smith, had an
absorbing passion for racing, and was
a capable amateur jockey. Old-timers will
remember Lady Manners Sutton as hav-
ing carried his colors. Asa fledgling
“Brownie” Carslake often rode for Smith,
pere.
* * * *
V.R.C. secretary A. V. Kewney is re-
turning the autumn visit paid to him by
George Rowe, head of the A.I.C. secre-
tariat. He followed Rowe’s example by
motoring across.
* * * *
Among those present at Randwick as
representatives of the V.A.T.C. are M. S.
Cooper and D. M. Taylor, members of
the committee. Cooper won the Wil-
liamstown Cup of 1924 with San An-
tonio. The last horse he raced was Silver
Reign, now the property of H. Leek. In
partnership with his brother, D. M.
Taylor owns Donaster and other gal-
lopers.
* * * *
The rain which delayed the start of
racing at Kyneton (Vic.) last Wednesday
was welcomed on all sides. Successive
weeks of drought had hardened training
tracks, which now may return to normal
condition.
Dick Bradfield, who prepared so many
Melbourne Cup winners, is “sitting back
in the traces” nowadays, and has a strictly
limited team. However, the veteran
picked up the Welter Handicap at Kyne-
ton with Gaybrooke (Gay Lothario-Tor-
brooke), who shared favoritism with Beau
Boy at threes.
David and Friarsdale, who did Otway
Falkiner good service on the turf, have
sired many excellent jumpers. H. R.
McCormick, the Mentone trainer, is par-
tial to the progeny of these stallions. He
captured the Trial Hurdle at Kyneton
with Nimshi, by Friarsdale. Odds of
10 to 9 were laid on Nimshi. He scored
in a manner suggestive of metropolitan
success soon.
* * * *
“J.M.”: A par. to the effect that Mus-
grave intended to try “a cheeker with
blunted tacks” to keep Court Gossip
on the tracks (B. 1/ 3 / ’39) took my
memory back 42 years. Ned Doherty,
brother of Bill Doherty the bruiser, was
training a chestnut at Drouin, Gippsland.
The horse, called Passion Fruit, could
not be kept on the course long enough
to win, though a fast and clean jumper ;
so Ned had one of those gadgets made.
It acted all right till the prad returned
to scale, when a vet. brought the police
sergeant along. Result, 20 of the best
and costs. I’d strongly advise Mus-
grave to think again before he tries that.
* * * *
“T.”: If I were a bookie I would
have fielded heavily against High Caste
at Warwick Farm. He looked big enough
for plough work. The Farm, with a
sharp turn into a short straight, is de-
cidedly not suited to a young horse with
an enormous frame in a six-furlongs
sprint with 17 starters, and it wasn’t
to be expected that High Caste would
batter his way through. The colt looked
a bit better at Randwick. There is talk
of his proving a worthy antagonist for
Ajax and Defaulter next season. My
prediction, here ventured for what it’s
worth, is that he won’t even develop into
a Derby colt. He is too monstrous
already.
M.Q. and Rafferty
La Verne Beats Gildo
The newest import, Danny La Verne
(9st. 2£lb.), hadn’t much trouble account-
ing for one of the oldest, Young Gildo
(9st. 21b.), at Sydney Arena. It was
mostly a matter of the Filipino not being
as young as when they hung his ring
moniker on him. At his top he would
have walked in. As it was, he won an
early round or two, employed headwork
good enough to make La Verne’s missing
look ridiculous, but took solid punish-
ment before it was all over.
La Verne might turn out a solid little
fighter ; he might even be a better boxer
than he looked, because, though Gildo’s
past his prime, the Filipino is still fast


& BEST BRITISH
MADE'IN
M
EFFIELD, E
<^<v
6
ifc
6-
Personal and Missing Friends.
SCOGGINS or FREEMAN.
Information is wanted regarding CHARLES
JOHN SCOGGINS and ALFRED THOMAS
SCOGGINS (believed latter sometime went
under name of Freeman), who both went to
Australia many years ago, sons of JOHN
SCOGGINS, Corn Dealer, London, and MRS.
HARRIET FREEMAN or SCOGGINS. They
or their heirs will hear of something to their
advantage if they will communicate with the
undersigned, who will also be glad to hear
from anyone who can give information.
MACKAY & BOYD, Solicitors, 50 Welling-
ton Street, Glasgow, Scotland.
Will FELIX DISERENS, otherwise James
Walker, last heard of at Sydney, New South
Wales, please communicate with Wilkinson
Bowen & Co., Solicitors, 34 Nicholas Lane,
London, E.C.3?
Legal Notice.
TO JOHN COLENSO NAYLOR a practi-
tioner of the Supreme Court of South
Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that the Law Society of
South Australia Incorporated has pursuant to
The Legal Practitioners Act 1936 referrred to
the Statutory Committee questions as to your
conduct which appear to the Council of the
said Society to require investigation to wit
charges that you did:
1. Fraudulently convert to your own use
moneys to the value of £946 4s. lOd. the
property of one Nellie Evelyn Hall.
2. Fail to obey orders of the Supreme Court
of South Australia made respectively on the
22nd day of December 1938 and the 25th
day of January 1939.
The Statutory Committee will sit at the Supreme
Court House Adelaide on the sth day of June
1939 at 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon to in-
quire into these matters and should you fail
to attend the Committee may proceed in your
absence. A copy of the Questions and Charges
referred to the Statutory Committee may be
had on application to the undersigned.
DATED this sth day of April, 1939.
J. H. PORTUS,
Secretary to the Law Society of South Australia
Incorporated.
P r esenting
THE
MERCURY
AN ENTIRELY NEW CAR
A new name ... a new car ... a new value. Big, low and of superb streamlined beauty.
Unusually wide with exceptional room . . . Quiet beyond belief . . . Touch-stop hydraulic
brakes . . . Body of welded steel and safety glass. Designed by Ford and Lincoln engineers
to the high standards which have made famous the Lincoln V-12 and the Lincoln-Zephyr, the
Mercury gives the greatest value ever offered in its price class. Ford Motor Company and its
dealer organisation cordially invite you to make a personal test of this new car.
m
mamma
PRODUCT OF MERCURY DIVISION—FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (Inc. In Vic.) F48.27M
and foxy enough to make most boxers
look slow. The latest from Gahd’s Own
has a curious jerky style; all his move-
ments are jerky —a robot of the ring.
China Still Winning
Kui Kong Young (Bst. 81b.) easily
made his Sydney wins five in a row by
beating Maxie Richards nicely at the
Arena, despite 61b. in Maxie’s favor. The
pocket-edition Richards lasted the dis-
tance, which was more than any of the
others had been able to do, but he did
it mainly by stalling. He won an early
round and one near the finish, but for
the rest Kui kept the fight going and
was from Surry Hills to Canton ahead
when the final bell went.
Notwithstanding all that, it was an
interesting scrap. Even though Kui has
won all his scraps comfortably, his box-
ing style and determined aggressiveness
have always been worth looking at on
their own account. He is a dandy little
battler, and Maxie was at least good
enough to give his skill a real testing. A
funny thing about the scrap was the dirt
that got mixed up in it. These speedy
little fellows ought to leave that sort of
thing to the big and clumsy. There were
not single punches below but whole bat-
teries of them. There was elbowing and
there was massaging with the glove-
laces. None of it had any effect, except
to rile the crowd. At the finish Maxie
was showing a bit of scarlet about the
lips, but otherwise there was no damage
done, and the pair of ’em hugged each
other at the end of hostilities.
Footbrawl
“Back”: The latest of many Victorian
efforts to improve the Australian game
by altering the rules has crashed. Vic-
toria wanted the holding rule amended;
Westralia supported it, but S.A., Tas-
mania, Queensland and N.S.W. objected.
S.A., for its part, proposed the amend-
ment of the handball rule, desiring “the
reintroduction of the clenched fist.” West-
ralia and N.S.W. were with it; Victoria,
Queensland and Tasmania were against.
When they read about this in Moscow
they will be convinced that Victoria, Tas-
mania and Queensland are hopelessly
borjoice.
* * * *
“Boola”: Money in Victorian country
football (B. 22/3/’39), you say? Yarram,
136 miles from Melbourne, gave it out
that it was putting up £ll a match for
a representative Melbourne player, and
15 applied. Only fifteen! A correspond-
ing offer in N.S.W. would have drawn
applications from the entire playing per-
sonnel of the Rugby League. Hearn, of
Fitzroy, was one of the 15, and was asked
to meet the Yarram president in Mel-
bourne, but “in the same mail,” as a
Melbourne paper reports, he “secured the
information that he had received employ-
ment with one of the most important
commercial organisations in the city, and
he decided to accept the city appoint-
ment.” Flowery language for a heavy-
weight leatherchaser? Not a bit of it.
In Melbourne, football and Macaulay-
flowers of rhetoric go together. No Mel-
bourne match is considered complete
unless it is rounded off with half a dozen
speeches in the dressing-room, and four-
fifths of the speakers talk just like that.
* * * *
Wigan was beaten on Saturday week
in a League Rugby semi-final, and on
the Monday the owners of the collection
of prime beef on the hoof decided to
cancel the proposed tour of N.S.W. and
Queensland. The loss of the match was
not given as the reason for cancellation,
but it must have influenced the decision,
since it would have affected gates; and,
as Harry Sunderland mentioned with a
groan which could almost be heard at a
distance of 12,000 miles, “no guarantee
was put up in Australia.” “The whole
affair is very sad,” poor Sunderland pro-
ceeded ; “it reveals a lack of enterprise
and imagination at a time when the game
badly needs both.” Truer words were
never spoken of a pastime which has be-
come a business that isn’t prospering.
* * * *
The controllers of British Union Rugby
are pardoning the French Union, which
they disqualified years ago for permit-
ting rough and foul play and acts of
professionalism. So far there are no
French matches on the programme ar-
ranged for the Australians, but one or
two may now be slipped in. If so, Aub
Hodgson, the 15-stone Manly forward,
whose left fist is almost as cunning as
his left foot, will need to be in good
shape, for the Gauls are unlikely to have
altered their habits. When the Waratahs
played in France a Gallic forward swung
a right at one of the Tancred brothers,
members of the family now associated
with the ownership of High Caste, and
Tancred had to be carried to the side-
line feet first. When the scrum formed
up again “Bluey” Greatorex, nowadays
a Sydney “Sun” sporting writer, swung
a right at the offender, and he had to be
carried to the sideline feet first. The
war was resumed after agitated reminders
on the part of officials that there really
was an entente cordiale.,
Miscellaneous
The straight griffin from London
“Sporting and Dramatic”: —
Don Tallon, of Queensland, is rapidly
heading for the title of world’s wicket-
keeper No. 1. He equalled a world’s
record by dismissing 12 N.S.W. batsmen
in a* l innings—-nine caught three stumped
The thirteenth man mus
out * # *
Moss, of St. George, lifted from third
grade last year, topped the batting aver-
ages in Sydney’s first-grade competition
with 52.1 in 12 innings (two not-outs).
Chegwyn, of Randwick, was next with
51.85, and got most runs (726 in 14
completed innings). Neither approached
Andrews’s record made in 1929-30—1150.
O’Reilly led the bowling with 46 wickets
at 6.89 (he took 53 at 6.77 last year),
M. Cohen bagged most wickets—s 6 at
13 42
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The silliest show of the
year in Melbourne occurred in Acland-
street, St. Kilda. An excited crowd of
30,000 thronged the thoroughfare, stuck
their heads through windows, stood on
verandah roofs and festooned housetops.
Mounted police and 30 constables tried
to keep order, and the press was so great
that five women and one strong man
fainted. The cause of the excitement was
the inauguration of the Victorian Soap-
box Derby. The winner, an 11-year-old
pupil of Melbourne Grammar, drove a
streamlined truck designed and built by a
city motor firm, and, in accordance with
adult precedent, there were injuries
amongst the spectators. One boy tripped
on a pair of wheels which had escaped
from a soapbox and fractured his skull,
and a woman sustained a broken leg
through one vehicle getting out of control
and knocking her over. It is proposed to
make the preposterous affair a yearly fix-
ture, and to let the little girls in on it.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: E. S. Paterson, his wife, his
son and his daughter all played in the
polo tournament at Adelaide. And in
the final gymkana, as a team of four,
they won the relay-race. Record?
“Dhas”: If fbr most of us out here
the Poles are as remote as the rods
and perches whose company they share
in the arithmetic book, there’s one Maori-
lander who should be vastly interested in
the present doings in Europe—“ Count”
Geoffrey Potocki de Montfort, who lays
claim to the throne of Poland. I thought
Wyndham Lewis had said the last word
on that long-haired wanderer when,
imagining the worst possible doom that
could befall a writer, he wept,
My fame no more than Montalk’s —if as much,
but Geoffrey is coming on ; recently he
achieved the distinction of being featured
in “Pix,” and now, perhaps, if the Poles
would let him lead them to victory in
his scarlet nightgown, he really could cut
the Byronic dash he hungers after.
Otherwise he must resume his progress
along “The Golden Road to Samarkand,”
which he indicated to a Maoriland Beak
as his future itinerary.
* * * *
The A.A.S.C. is to hold its annual
luncheon after Sydney’s Anzac Day ser-
vice at the Railway Institute, corner of
Chalmers-street and Devonshire-street.
Tickets cost 4s. —at the door. It’s due
to commence at 12.30 p.m., and all Dig-
gers will be welcome. Before that —im-
mediately after the Domain service—
there’ll be the ceremony of laying a
wreath on the Cenotaph “in memory of
departed comrades.” A.S.C. men are to
fall in opposite the Metropole, facing
O’Connell-street.


OXXJry^.
r.HiiMihm
Twicp Daily -2'30-Q
AT THt
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-Q
“THE LAUGH ROUND-UP,'
featuring
WILL MAHONEY.
And 10 Other Acts.
“YOUNG BLOODS OF VARIETY,”
featuring
BUSTER WEST and LUCILLE PAGE.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
The Big Show.
Seen at (he week-end, the annual
R.A.S. outburst at Sydney Showground
looked to be breaking all records. As
a matter of fact, that day it wasn’t. The
crowd was reported to be close on 12,000
short of the tally for the same day last
year. Nobody getting jammed up in it
would have thought so. It was only a
fraction short of 140,000, including—
without the assistance of Sharman’s varie-
gated pugs and the inhabitants of other
sideshows —every identifiable species of
homo sapiens and some as yet unclassi-
fied varieties.
It was a perfect day, and among other
notable sights the ladies were to be seen
at their best, literally scores of ’em scat-
tered through the ringside crowds stand-
ing with shoes elegantly gripped into
armpits and stockinged toes dug firmly
into the dirt. Put to the test of trying
to cart their owners round to see merely
a hundredth part of what offers, the old
tootsies simply can’t take it.
What was going on in the ring was as
good as ever, and if anything livelier.
The Grand Parade was the big event, and
by the sheer force of its spectacular
appeal brought round on round of
applause from the standing-room-only
mass. Every handsome beast in the
State, decked out in all the ribbons ever
won, looked to be in that spiral slow-
motion pattern. They call halts in it
now for the benefit of amateur photo-
graphers, and the clicking of cameras is
like machine-gun fire.
What with steer-riders, Red Indians, a
funnyman and the like, they’re injecting
more circus into the ring than ever, and
the crowd seems to prefer it so. The
Grand Parade, anyway, was proof
enough that the proper function of the
show is not being neglected in these
efforts to keep it up to current taste in
entertainment. In sparkling sunshine it
was a splendid spectacle.
Plenty more proof of that sort in the
pavilions, where the district exhibits of
agriculture and the fruit, flower and
other displays provide a harvest festival
background to the tumult of the side-
shows and the horsemanship, the parades
and the circus of the ring.
They’ve brought the running of it, of
course, to a fine art; so much so that it
all seems to move forward now on its
own account, though the people con-
ducting it could no doubt tell you an-
other, and perhaps a more profane, story.
At all events, they do a great job, and
so do the 20,000 or so others in all the
parts that go to build up what is nothing
other than a big annual folk-play which
always remains much the same, yet man-
ages to be a bit better in some way or
other every year.
Melbourne's Worst Show.
As seen by “C. 8.”:
As a consistent playgoer it seemed to
me that the worst show of the week or
any week in Melbourne was the de-
parture of Lord Huntingfield.
His Excellency arrived, accurately
timed, at the front steps of the Town
Hall in an ancient horse-drawn carriage,
complete with equerries, outriders, fore-
riders and backriders and a team of
magnificent glossy black horses. The
procession was completed by a posse of
young Light Horsemen and police on
motor-cycles. The ceremony consisted
of an exchange of salvoes of mutual ad-
miration between his Ex. and his Wor-
ship the Lud Mayor of Melbourne.
The thing that struck me about the
performance was that it lacked all the
qualities of a good production. In any
decent stage play the audience is suc-
cessfully bamboozled into the belief that
nobody on the stage knows what is going
to happen. Nobody is thinking that when
the hero puts the hard word on the
heroine he and she and everybody
else about the property already know the
answer. If they did, suspense, the funda-
mental basis of all good drama, would
be entirely lacking. So sensible pro-
ducers use every cunning device to de-
ceive the audience into forgetting that
what is happening has been rehearsed
times out of number.
But in the Huntingfield performance
this emotional factor was absent. By the
sublimity of his expression the Lud
Mayor conveyed that he not only knew
what his lieutenant was going to read
from the official parchment he held
before him but had heard it so often
that he was bored to extinction by it.
Being of a cheerful, amiable and affec-
tionate disposition, Lord Huntingfield
conveyed a more spontaneous effect, in-
asmuch as he wore the bland expectant
smile of a child who is about to be given
a chocolate and doesn’t know whether it
will be a soft or a hard centre —different
but equally delightful. Unfortunately,
however, he gave the show away by hold-
ing his prepared reply conspicuously dis-
played.
The ritual was concluded by the Lud
Mayor and the Governor exchanging
Sydney Wheeler and Don Nicol in “A Waltz Dream,” at Sydney Royal.
documents, like the manager and the
typist. They then handed them to their
sidekicks, no doubt to have the punctua-
tion corrected and put into cold storage
for use on a subsequent occasion.
The only element of suspense provided
by the producers was their insisting that
it was essential to the dignity of the
proceedings for the departing Governor
to stand stiffly upright on the floor of
his carriage while he listened to the
valedictory speeches. If the Government
House horses had moved —but everybody
knew they wouldn’t, even if the earth-
quake that occurred two days later had
placed an unpremeditated fullstop in the
middle of the Lud Mayor’s discourse.
They were too fully imbued with the im-
portance of the occasion.
“Black Limelight.”
Edgar Wallace would turn in his grave
if he could see some of the ingredients
Gordon Sherry has poured into the
framework of that hallowed institution
the murder mystery play in “Black Lime-
light” (Melbourne Comedy).
Plot consists of a frenzied hunt by
police, press and public for the assassina-
tor of Lily James, mistress of Peter
Charrington, who keeps his light of love
in a week-end bungalow somewhere in
England while his devoted wife and
family are at his home in London. Sus-
picion which grows into certainty points
at husband, whose wife believes in his
innocence, not as regards marital fidelity
but as regards the murder, and shelters
him while she is worming the story out
of him. By a process of ratiocination
too marvellous to bear logical analysis,
she comes to the conclusion that the real
assassin is a friend of the family,
Laurence Manfred, who is naturally
adapted to homicide inasmuch as, owing
to an optical disease, he can see in the
dark, has a phobia which urges him to
commit murder under the associational
stimulus of moonlight and roses, is also
in love with Mrs. Charrington and is
dogging her husband in order to gain
proof of his infidelity so that he can in-
gratiate himself with Mrs. Charrington.
She proceeds to play on the homicidal
maniac’s weakness by staging a situation
where he will attempt to murder her,
while the inevitable police inspector is
concealed behind the arras. She gets the
husband taken away safely into custody
on a charge of murder and is saved by
Inspector Tanner just as the maniac-
lover’s fingers are closing round her
throttle.
Mr. Sherry throws in one scene so
charged with emotion that it gripped the
audience to the momentary exclusion of
the mystery motive. Lily confesses to
her lover that she is going to have a baby
and wants to go on with it, but Peter
doesn’t. At this point the murder switches
the attention back to the much less in-
teresting mystery motive.
Lina Basquette not only played the
role of the betrayed wife lexcellently
but doubled the part of her youthful
rival so convincingly, even to changed
voice and gesture, that present critic, who
had not studied the programme closely,
thought she was another actress. Henry
Mollison was also admirably suited to
the husband shocked out of one painful
situation into another. Frank Harvey
gave the audience the jitters as the homi-
cidal maniac. Guy Hastings was a stock
police inspector, and Beatrice Esmond a
stock sympathetic housekeeper.
London Casino Revue.
It is pretty safe to say that this con-
fection, which opened at the King’s, Mel-
bourne, on Saturday, effaced in the minds
of the majority of those present the
memory of all previous revues, bareback
and more so, that have been seen in the
Yarra city.
Ernest Rolls may have torn a leaf out
of the book of the Folies Berg£res, Paris,
and if so he didn’t worsen his instruc-
tion, and possibly bettered it. At the
risk of being stigmatised a lowbrow,
present writer is prepared to maintain
that the Machine scene and the Gold
scene, in which the effects of machine-
and Mammon-worship on the industrial
proletariat and society in general are
illustrated by torrents of female dancers
in scanty raiment and floods of male per-
formers painted with goldsize, boldly
invited comparison with the most ornate
productions of the Russian Ballet.
If there was any difference in the
quality of the dancing a microscope
would have to be brought on to discover
it, and the setting, a blaze of yellow, with
golden pillars and carvings, plus a sculp-
tured group of living bodies in the middle
distance, was more considered and artistic
and less precious and arty than the
Russian institution. George Upward, the
King’s scenic-painter, may have fewer
intellectual conceits in his head than the
Slav choreographers, but, being a painter,
has more knowledge of appearances, and
consequently his effects do less damage
to the eye and violence to the intelligence
than those excessively arty-crafty Rus-
sians.
“Elijah” in Melbourne.
Exceptionally good solo singing was
the chief feature of the sixtieth perform-
ance by Melbourne Phil, of “Elijah” at
the Town Hall on Friday.
It is a long time since sweeter singing
than English soprano Thea Philips’s ren-
dering of “Hear Ye, Israel,” has been
heard in oratorio in Melbourne, and the
“O Rest in the Lord” of contralto Etta
Barnard ran her a good second. Elijah’s
servant Obadiah was similarly fortunate
in having Lionello Cecil’s tenor at his
disposal, and the “Lift Up Thine Eyes”
of the angel trio was alone well worth
the price of admission.
St. Matthew's Passion.
A notable musical event was the per-
formance at Sydney Con. Hall one night
last week of the St. Matthew’s Passion,
Bach’s greatest choral work.
First performed at the Church of St.
Thomas in Leipzig in 1729, with the
cantor himself at the organ, it was a
feature of that church’s Easter services
for 60 or 70 years. Mendelssohn brought
it back to notice in 1829. Then there
was another eclipse until the Bach revival
in England and Germany placed it in the
repertoire of every great choir in those
countries. Until Wednesday night it had
not been heard in Sydney.
The performance, under Dr. Edgar
Bainton’s baton, was better orchestrally
than chorally, and better chorally than
in solos. The long recitatives, full of
dramatic fervor, and the elaborate solo
arias were in the hands of Isolde Hill,
Winifred Gardiner, Godfrey Stirling (The
Evangelist), Sydney de Vries and Oliver
King, none of whom was particularly
impressive. But some of the elaborate
double choruses were enjoyable pieces of
contrapuntal vocalism, and the organist,
whoever it was, showed fine discretion.
The final chorus, “Here Yet Awhile,” de-
serves special praise.
The A.B.C. broadcast the entire per-
formance, reserving the Lotte Lehmann
recital of the same evening for its box-
office patrons.
Sydney Phil.’s Easter Concert.
The pioneer sponsored programme of
Australia —the concert given each Good
Friday by the Sydney Philharmonic
Society at the R.A.S. Show under the
Schweppes banner —this year filled the
Burma Pavilion handsomely.
The fare was Gounod’s “Messe Solen-
nelle” and Rossini’s “Stabat Mater”;
conductor Vern Barnett. Both works
were well sung, arid they afforded an
interesting contrast in style. Gounod,
that devout organist, had the religious
style in his bones ; Rossini with difficulty
attuned to ecclesiastical purposes a gift
of melodic invention more easily applied
to lighter matters. Soloists included
Isolda Hill, Eileen Boyd, Godfrey Stirling
and Walter Kingsley.
Lotte Lehmann.
There was not much new material in
Madame Lehmann’s Sydney recitals of
last week ; indeed, Sydney seems by now
to have heard most of her extensive
repertoire. Highlights of the two con-
cluding Sydney recitals were Mimi’s song
from “La Boheme” and a liberal allow-
ance of Schumann lieder. She returns
to Sydney for another recital on May 16.
“The Citadel"
Robert Donat, Rosalind Russell.
From a general shoddy level the stand-
ard of films has suddenly shot upwards
with this Sydney St. James offering, based
on A. J. Cronin’s arresting novel, and
made in England by the American
M.-G.-M. firm, touching a very high
mark. .
It is extra strong in story; it is finely
acted by the principals and others; it
sets down what Cronin had to say about
the medical profession in England fairly
completely and very clearly. Because
Cronin is far from being a great
dramatist, the play made from his novel
is somewhat loose and not well defined.
It seeks to say too much for it to say any
one thing with dramatic finality. There
is a lot of merit in what it does say about
poorly qualified medicoes with no real
vocation for their work, but other of its
statements seem questionable.
One of its probable—though no doubt
unintended —results may be to give a great
boost to charlatanism. An important


1 insist j
* V.O.H *f*
plus —* s
3,im»*'
§IP :
ķ
ĸ
PETROLS
There's a grade to suit your car
SUPER PIUS
Super Plus is the only Ethyl petrol that also contains
benzol and offers you exceptionally high anti-
knock quality together with amazing mileage.
Plus BENZOL
Petrol -benzol blends are sold in other markets
at premium rates but Plus Benzol is available in
Australia at the standard grade price.
pgR
S u
m
1 V ■
m
1333333
LOOK FOR THE RED, WHITE & RLUE PUMPS
C162/27/SP
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Incorporated in Victoria with Branches at MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH, HOBART
point in its plot turns on the position of
an American expert in t.b. who, because
he had never taken degrees, is right out-
side the pale to the controllers of the
profession. Cronin, of course, puts great
emphasis on the outsider’s real qualifi-
cations, and restricted to its own ground
the statement is flawless. That it will
be restricted to its own ground isn’t at
all likely. The use of this “quack” to
make the medical profession look ridicu-
lous will more probably be taken as a
warrant for all quacks. The same effect
would be got by taking a patent medicine,
which might be a good patent medicine,
and using it to ridicule medicines pre-
scribed by doctors.
Another thing. With the exception of
the one solitary medico represented by
Donat and a chemist who is a dipso.,
every man of medicine or surgery repre-
sented is a muddled fool or a licensed
slayer. This unfair, not to say pre-
posterous, representation is probably
nothing more than a result of Cronin’s
shortcomings in the craft he drifted into
from the medical profession. He is so
bent on attack that he paints a distorted
picture.
He does better attacking a small clique
of specialists battening on rich clients in
London. These being set in circum-
stances peculiar to themselves, his caustic
statement on them can’t be stretched to
any wider application, which certainly
cannot be said about his other statements
on his late profession.
Apart from his leading character’s
good works, there, of course, isn’t a word
about the unrewarded service to the
community that is going on all the time.
The fact would appear to be that Cronin
is so intent on putting bad medicoes on
the rack that he has to pillory the whole
profession in doing so. Even his one
shining example has a period in which
he is no better than any of them, until
a purely accidental set of circumstances,
coupled with the efforts of a remarkable
wife, lead him back again to a proper
sense of a doctor’s duty to humanity.
But whatever may be said about the
story on such grounds, there’s no ques-
tion that a fine film has been made of
it—one that holds interest pinned from
beginning to end.
Donat very earnest as the good doctor ;
Miss Russell very intense as his wife.
Support, including Rex Harrison and
Emlyn Williams, well up to the general
standard.
“Mr. Chedworth Steps Out”
Cecil Kellaway.
Of Australian films present writer has
witnessed, all except one have been built
on broad comedy or vigorous action.
The exception was “The Broken
Melody,” in which Cinesound ventured
somewhat self-consciously into city and
suburban scenes.
In this present offering that self-
consciousness has disappeared ; charac-
ters, story and settings are accepted with
complete confidence and depicted easily,
naturally and sincerely. It represents one
of the biggest steps forward that Aus-
tralian filmdom has made and one that
even Australian novelists have yet to
master.
The story is a complex affair. The
main line of narrative concerns the
emancipation of an inoffensive little pen-
pusher from warming an office stool to
prosperous independence, and from
domestic subservience to master of his
household. His rise is brought about by
highly fictional devices, such as a £lOOO
to £5 double and a parcel of shares in
a wildcat mine which suddenly comes
good, but, backed by capable acting, they
serve the purpose of the story.
It is strengthened by much other
material, including Chedworth’s pother
with a bagful of forged notes and the
forgers’ attempts to recover them; by
heart-interest between his daughter and
sleuth attempting to track down the
forgeries ; by youngest daughter’s aspira-
tions to a career as a songster ; by bouts
of domestic strife with his spouse, and
sundry other entertaining bits and pieces.
Ken G. Hall, directing, did an admir-
able job in weaving all the material into
the one broad canvas and presenting it
as a coherent and smoothly-paced film.
One criticism that might be levelled
is that there is a tendency to lay too
much stress on individual scenes which,
though quite good in themselves, have
insufficient bearing on the film as a whole
to warrant being treated at any length.
Acting is particularly good all round,
with Kellaway in fine form and equally
good in serious or in humorous moments.
He makes of Chedworth a very live and
human character, and a much more
natural husband and father than is gener-
ally depicted in “family films.” A pity
he can’t be kept in Australia.
Another useful person leaving here
for other parts is James Raglan, who is
off to England. He turns in a creditable
performance as the sleuth who, in search
of forged notes, cobbers up with Ched-
worth and falls for his daughter. That
lass, as played by an attractive Aus-
tralienne called Joan Deering, is reason
enough to take any sleuth’s mind off his
job.
Jean Hatton, the much-heralded 16-
year-old songster, is a very taking
youngster not unlike Deanna Durbin
and with a pleasing voice which should
gain in strength and quality as she grows
older. Rita Pauncefort as Chedworth’s
troublesome spouse turns in some nice
work, and Ronald Whelan, Sydney
Wheeler and Peter Finch are others who
make up a sound supporting cast in an
entertaining film.
“Stablemates”
Wallace Beery, Mickey Rooney.
With the rugged contours of his face
occasionally disappearing in an all-
engulfing grin and with his pants hung
precariously on his massive paunch, Mr.
Beery differs from all other screen pretty-
boys in being really attractive. In fact,
after the likes of Mr. Power and Mr.
Taylor he comes as good brown ale after
sarsaparilla.
In this current offering at Sydney State
he is extra good Mr. Beery all the way—
Mr. Beery driving a prehistoric auto-
mobile at considerable risk to himself
and bystanders; Mr. Beery upending a
gin bottle with characteristic ease; Mr.
Beery singing lustily in the most dreadful
of dreadful voices ; Mr. Beery beating a
hasty retreat from being almost coerced
into matrimony as the sixth husband of
an angular spinster; Mr. Beery very
drunk and, best of all, Mr. Beery leering
blearily around any corners there are to
be leered around, including the corners
of his eyes.
Much the same may be said for young
Rooney, who, although he’s growing up
a bit, still acts as a powerful antidote to
surfeits of the Breen and Temple ilk.
As a jockey he is given a moke of erratic
temperament by an exasperated owner
who has tried everything within his
knowledge to bring the hoss home first.
Enter Mr. Beery as a deadbeat vet. barred
from practising and wanted by the law.
He cures the moke’s complaint, and
thereafter the film consists of the trials
and vicissitudes of Rooney and Beery as
they train their hoss and try to raise
the oof to enter him in the race which
he naturally wins in due course.
“Zaza”
Claudette Colbert, Herbert Marshall.
Although admirers of Miss Colbert
will find little about her performance in
this Sydney Prince Edward offering to
detract from their opinion of her, they
will be inclined to weep at seeing her
talents as a dramatic actress wasted on
such threadbare material.
The lady of the title is a coquettish
music-hall artist who has the uneven
tenor of her way still further disturbed
by the advent of a polished and wealthy
gent, who presumably falls as hard for
her as she does for him. Ensues a torrid
romance until Mamsell Zaza discovers
that the object of her affections is already
married and with a youngster to bless
the union. Poor goil renounces heart-
interest for hard work, and becomes a
leading attraction in Paris theatres within
two or three years, and fadeout finds
her singing a sad farewell from the stage
while wealthy gent, gazes wistfully from
his box.
Keen directing keeps the film moving,
while Miss Colbert’s fine acting gives it
some backbone and holds interest almost
to the finish. Marshall also offers a
finely-shaded performance until, towards
the finish, he begins to suffer, and when
that happens the rest of the cast as well
as the audience generally join him in his
agony.
Supporting features include Bert
Howell —who, if recollection serves aright,
once conducted an orchestra in front of
a ballet in the Ambassadors Theatre in
Perth (W.A.) and who has since travelled
a good deal and gained much by ex-
perience-conducting his “Shell Show”
band, and “Disbarred,” a crime opus.
“Kentucky”
Walter Brennan, Loretta Young, Richard
Greene.
Yet another example of what techni-
color can make of ordinary material,
this main offering at Sydney Regent is
lifted by its color from f.a.q. rating to
a film of many arresting qualities.
It has to do largely with horseracing,
and there are some unforgettable de-
pictions of the neddies, one especially of
a spirited bunch galloping over green
pastures through light timber. Man-o’-
War and other animals almost as famous
figure in it. The fadeout —a study of
horses, trees, grass and sky, etc. —is one
of the most beautiful scenes yet filmed in
technicolor.
The film kicks off with a spot of
bloodshed in Kentucky during the Ameri-
can Civil War, then leaps to present day,
with the feud still running hot between
rival families. Though somewhat familiar,
it’s not a bad set-up, and the color gives
it new life.
Walter Brennan dominates the piece
with a keen and faultless portrayal of
an irascible old horse-fancier. Miss
Young makes a charming Southern belle,
and Greene offers his best performance
to date.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
'
Mite
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 ,S'p ring wood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
NORLAND NURSING COLLEGE
mm
CHOOSE NURSING AS A CAREER.
A steadily increasing demand ensures a highly-paid
position for a Norland nurse.
The Norland certificate is given at the end of a year s
training, and three appointments are guaranteed.
Under carefully selected qualified teachers the probationer
is taught invalid and children’s cookery, First Aid and
Ambulance work.
NORLAND NURSES are respected and recognised every-
where as being highly capable.
ENROL NOW for the April Term.
The NORLAND NURSERIES, which are attached to the
College, provide an ideal home for infants and children.
Full particulars from THE MATRON, NORLAND NURSING
COLLEGE, 68 Charlotte Street, Ashfleld, N.S.W.
A
KEEP
OtCUcaUu
Ode A....
Take Golcryst regu-
X larly to ensure vig-
orous health. These
golden crystals of
health are pleasant
to take and tone up
the whole system.
FOR RHEUMATISM, NEURITISJTC.
THE PERFECT MORNING SALTS
ALL CHEMISTS 4* . B • » •
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The wave of sadness that passed over
the city at the news of Prime Minister
Lyons’s death after his short, sharp ill-
ness washed out the gladness of the
Easter gaieties. Mr. Lyons was more
than a name, a picture or a cartoonist’s
caricature to the people of Australia. He
was a real man, a family man. He and
his beloved and clever wife, Dame Enid
Lyons, stood in the imagination of the
Commonwealth as the symbol of domes-
tic happiness, and even those who had
lost such happiness, or had never known
it, liked to feel that the paternal touch
was there in the guidance of the nation’s
destinies. After all, the iffea of the
patriarch is deep founded in the human
mind.
There is not a woman’s club or society
in Australia but mourns with Dame Enid.
She has visited them in the hours of her
husband’s success. Her happy smile has
been infectious, her speeches have always
provided matter for deep thought. At
St. Vincent’s Hospital, where her hus-
band had died, Mrs. Lyons was cared for
till it was time for her departure for
Tasmania. She had, too, comforting her,
several of her children.
Messages of sympathy came from the
King and Queen, from the Duke and
Duchess of Kent, Queen Mary, from the
Pope, from Rabbis, from Governors,
from the great and from the obscure.
Mussolini sent a cable.
From ten o’clock on Monday morning
to ten in the evening the body of the
late Prime Minister lay in state at St.
Mary’s Cathedral. All day long the vast
church was thronged by friends and ad-
mirers paying their last respects, praying
for the soul of one who had throughout
his life been a devoted follower of his
Church. All day long the wreaths and
flower tributes mounted. Yesterday
morning there was a solemn Requiem
Mass in St. Mary’s, the celebrant being
the Apostolic Delegate, Dr. Panico, the
preacher Monsignor King. The poignant
and grave music was sung by students
from St. Patrick’s College, Manly,
directed by Father Musset Ferrer. From
the cathedral the funeral procession, the
gun-carriage escorted by the Royal Aus-
tralian Garrison Artillery, passed along
College- and Park-street, and finally by
way of George-street and Martin-place
into Macquarie-street. At the Quay
H.M.A.S. Vendetta became the reposi-
tory of the body of him who was so
lately our first citizen, and bore him
across the Tasman to his home town,
Devonport, in Tasmania.
All day last Monday Joseph Aloysius
Lyons lay in state behind the High Altar
of St. Mary’s. He lay clothed as for a
reception, his medals and orders glittering
across his breast. By ten o’clock, when
the public was admitted, there were hun-
dreds waiting at the College-street en-
trance and across in Hyde Park. Dame
Enid Lyons, four of her daughters and
two of her sons had been in the cathedral
earlier. Lord Gowrie and all members
of the Cabinet had been present when
the body was borne into the cathedral.
Beside the purple-draped bier that was
placed beneath the shadow of a great
golden crucifix stood first a guard of
the Air Force, second one from the Navy,
and lastly one from the Royal Australian
Artillery.
There were no vice-regals at Randwick
last Saturday because of the death of the
Prime Minister. There was, too, an
absence of sartorial splendor about the
men, and the hot day prevented a dis-
play of their new winter suits by the
women. But they were not to be
divorced from their autumn hats. These
sprang up, high-crowned and feathered,
pushed down over one eye, very small,
and moored by a cable of bandeau to
the back of the head. Some of them
were clasped to the head by one of those
snoods, like a fragment of ornamental
string bag. Feathers were all! Ostrich
tips, quills, soaring wings upsweeping
from very tiny birds. If you didn’t wear
a feather you might just as well have
copied the ostrich and hidden your
head in the sand.
In spite of the heat new furs clung to
the shoulders of their owners as cosily
as a shell to its clam. Muffs, too, kept
the threat of chilblain away from their
wearers. Muffs are a fashion this Letter
cheers. A girl from Melbourne brought
one of these in dark smooth fur to Rand-
wick. Before the first race the vintage
hues (roughly that takes in the shades
between burgundy and mulberry) had
become tiresome in their repetition.
Hard, too, to get a stocking that tones
soothly with them. Cornelian-red was
Mrs. Byron Wrigley’s trig outfit. Her
winged beret was of velvet, and with
bag, gloves and shoes made the com-
plete color composition. Time plus
money was also indicated in the dress-
ing of Mrs. Doug Levy and the McKelvey
lady. Mrs. Levy’s hat was high-crowned
and befeathered; the latter wore hers
wide-brimmed and flat. Her black frock
showed the new, fine pleating.
Lord and Lady Gifford were a centre
of interest, and they were kept busy with
farewells. With her frock of berry-red
marocain she wore a small blue velvet
hat. Mrs. John Collins’s color scheme
was the ciel-blue of her fancy. In navy
was Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre, who had with
her niece Dorothy Broun. Powder-blue
was chosen by Mrs. Archie Baker, of
Bundarra, Armidale. Mrs. Laidley Dow-
ling came with daughter Mrs. Blake Pelly,
an ermine collar on her pale-blue coat.
There was a burst of feathers cascading
over the back of the high crown of
Betty Culpan’s black velvet hat. A
straight-brimmed doll’s hat of yellow
feathers was one of the afternoon’s
brightest happenings. The big event
of the day, not counting Gold Rod’s
win, was the Pat Osbornes’ lunch party.
About 70 guests were about the richly-
flowered table. Mrs. M. H. Baillieu, of
Melbourne, and the Louis Nelkens, of
the southern capital, were among the
guests.
“The first thing women must do, if
they aim for public life, is to discipline
their expression and learn to hide their
emotions,” said Mrs. E. M. Waddell when
talking to this Letter about her political
aspirations. Mrs. Waddell is the endorsed
U.A.P. candidate for the Waverley by-
election. If she wins her seat Mrs.
Waddell will succeed her husband as
Parliamentary representative of the elec-
torate. She is against the increase in
tramfares, and she advocates the building
of the Eastern Suburbs railway. She is,
too, a very attractive-looking woman, as
you can tell by this Dorothy Welding
photograph. The Feminists gave her a
luncheon last week, and the rooms were
crowded to the door. Witty Grace
Scobie, who would make a distinguished
M.L.A. herself, was there to give the sup-
port of her word and smile.
For 20 years the R.A.S. has languished
without a special Women’s Section for
the display of needlework, preserves and
cakes. This year the entries for the
Women’s Industries Section numbered
1000, so perhaps next year the prizes will
be somewhat higher. One pound as first
prize for a child’s dress, muslin or linen,
hand-embroidered, does not stagger the
mind with its opulence. Some of the
first prizes offered for hand-embroidered
objects are only 10s. The women of this
State who broider and stitch, and in
many cases have shown ingenuity, can-
not be at all mercenary, for they have
sent in hundreds of examples of their
craft, all of them good, many exquisite.
The best first prize, £lO, was offered
for an afternoon frock costing not more
than 10s. The winner was a black chif-
fon suitable for late afternoon. This had
long sleeves which were stitched with
rows and rows of silver beads, and which
also showed a design in drawn-thread
work.
Was there a woman at the Show who
did not prowl about the Hall of Agri-
culture? Oh, the nose-twitching savors,
the feeling of absolute repletion that
comes from merely looking at the dis-
tricts’ exhibits! Housewives but now
emerging from the vegetable shortage
smiled as they greeted the early cauli-
flower and caught the eye of the potato.
One mother who had read her catalogue
wondered if honey might breed Fascist
notions in her young—so many of the
queen bees seemed to be Italian. Our
old friends the apples were there in
pyramids. But why this monotony of
display? Why not, for instance, use
the Democrats to outline the history of
William Tell? Rome Beauty and Lon-
don Pippin might build up the story of
Paris and Aphrodite; while Granny
Smith, as the oldest inhabitant, might be
used in that of Adam and Eve. Just a
suggestion, of course!
Red and white pennants fluttering
against the greying day put a dash of
color into the arrival of the Governor-
General at the Show last Wednesday.
He had come to declare it open, which
he did briefly and concisely after he had
inspected the R.A.A. guard of honor,
who, it must be said, looked just as smart
if not as showy as other events of the
afternoon. Two whom you simply had
to give a loud hand to during the after-
noon were Mrs. I. Whitney, of Coomb-
ing Park, Carcoar, and S. J. Leach, of
the Royal Canadian Mounted. Mrs.
Whitney has just celebrated her 94th
birthday, and was there in person to
collect the silver cup on behalf of her
grand champion Shorthorn bull.
Constable Leach was magnificent. He
rode a spirited grey, and he carried an
immense Union Jack. Then, shades of
Fenimore Cooper, behind him rode real
Red Indians, feathered headdress, war-
paint and all. As for the cowgirls, they
drew forth the sigh of admiration as
fearless and brilliant in their reds, yel-
lows and greens they rode their horses in
every way excepting standing on their
noses. Well, they may even have done
that.
Lady Gowrie came, her pink frock
covered by a coat of black sheer. Earlier
in the week she had done her bit towards
the success of the Show by tying the blue
ribbon on Austral Cowslip Royal, the
grand champion dairy cow. Lord
Wakehurst was there, also Tasmania’s
Governor, Sir Ernest Clark, with
Lady Clark. Premier Stevens’s wife
wore an ensemble in burgundy tones.
Noreen Dangar, Mrs. Harry Meeks, Her-
mione Helme Pott, from Melbourne,
Mayoress Nock, Mrs. H. C. Mclntyre,
Lord arid Lady Gifford, Thelma Mc-
Master and Mary Baillieu, Sir Geoffrey
and Lady Whiskard and the Sam
Hordern lady were among the enthusiasts.
The big event of the Women Pioneers’
Easter party was the announcement of
the engagement of Helen McLean,
daughter of the William McLeans, of
Rose Bay, and Lome MacDougall. Helen
and Lome are kinsfolk. Both have
among their forebears Andrew Mac-
Dougall, that naval officer who came to
Australia in 1798 and got a grant of land
out beyond Parramatta, naming the dis-
trict Baulkham Hills, after the hills close
by his old English home. Carlotta Doyle,
former secretary of the Pioneers, had a
special interest in toasting the two, since
she also is kin.
The guest of honor was Hubert
Murray, Lieut.-Governor of Papua. The
club’s president, Mrs. Wentworth Gray-
son, wore floor-length teal-blue crepes,
a diamond glittering at the high-
swathed neckline. Among the smartly-
hatted were Mrs. M. Dixon and Mrs.
Kingsley Graham. Pretty Mrs. Lorenz
contributed a tiny fitting black hat thickly
bordered with colored flowers. Jeanie
Ranken spoke up about the club dance
dated for June.
News of Kathleen Clemens’s success
has just reached her people in Neutral
Bay. Kathleen went off to see the world
last year, and after holidaying in Ireland
and on the Continent she returned to
London to do post-graduate work at
Hammersmith Hospital. This was fol-
lowed by an appointment in Newcastle -
on-Tyne as assistant pathologist in the
Public Health laboratory, King’s Col-
lege, connected with the University. She
still holds this job, which she gained in
competition with a number of candidates.
Betty (Valerie Elizabeth) Quinlin be-
came Mrs. John Kingsford Smith last
Wednesday. John is a nephew of the
famous airman, and is a pretty good flier
himself. He has just made a new altitude
record for Australia. St. James’s Church
in King-street gave its blessing. The
bride’s frock was of silver lame; her veil
was of tulle and heirloom lace. Three
bridesmaids followed the long and gleam-
ing train. They were Sheila Quinlin, the
bride’s sister, Alice Sweaney, of Inverell,
and Nancy Dodd. Their frocks of blue
marquisette over cyclamen gained a
jacaranda effect; their blue sapphire
pendants were the gifts of the bride-
groom. The wedding party was at the
State Assembly, where Mr. and Mrs.
Marcus Quinlin received about 70 guests.
Barbara Glasgow’s coming-out dance
made Saturday a big night in the lives
of the teen-olds. This was at the Royal
Sydney Golf Club, and nobody went
home till nearly two o’clock. Barbara,
her frock all white and silver, looked
lovely, and carried lily-of-the-valley.
Spreading black net made Helen Brux-
ner’s frock. Pamela Darling’s pale-blue
chiffons were strapless, and had a glit-
tering sequin bodice. Jessica Chard also
glittered above the waistline. Her bolero
of silver and jacaranda-blue topped a
swirl of jacaranda-blue chiffons. Mrs.
Carl Glasgow, mother of the brand-new
butterfly, wore silver-grey satin with lilac
velvet shoulder straps. Over a hundred
guests were there, including Thelma
Harris, another of Easter Week s just-
outs.
All set up with a red Swiss chalet for
the band, the “Glassy” opens for its ice-
skating season next Thursday.


ULTIMATE WORLD RADIO
“Precision Built for Performance—The slight extra cost is worth it”
OUTSTANDING RELEASES FOR
1939
ULTIMATE has always led the radio parade... last year’s cabinets, spin dial, extended tuning
range, battery economy switches, and visible controls are only now being adopted by other
manufacturers! 1939 models still contain those features plus other necessary refinements such as
six-gang tuning condensers, all-wave coverage, inbuilt power switch on volume control, new type
dials, etc., etc
YOU SHOULD KNOW THESE FACTS ABOUT
ULTIMATE
(a) A standard 6v. A.C. “Ultimate” holds the world’s record for the greatest number of verified stations
received—79B on the Broadcast Band.
(b) An “Ultimate” Battery Set has created a record in logging 531 verified stations.
(c) An “Ultimate” in New Zealand holds Nine Champion of Champions Awards.
(d) “Ultimate” was used by Commander R. E. Byrd in his expedition to the South Pole.
(e) Mr. R. N. Shaw, of Wauchope, uses an Bv. A.C. All-wave “Ultimate” for compiling “Wireless
Weekly” Short-wave Notes.
(f) Dr. Sinclair, of Eastwood, official advisor to the 8.8. C. on Australian Short-wave Reception, uses
“Ultimates” exclusively.
(g) Mr. Keast, of Randwick, advisor to technical publications on short-wave reception, uses an Bv.
A.C. “Ultimate.”
k
■V* **•*
m
«.v 1 ;
'.M
j I : .
mm
M
-7
THE “CENTURY.”
1939 ULTIMATE RADIO
RECEIVERS
COUNTRY MODELS.
MANTELS—
7-valve All-wave Vibrator.
7-valve All-wave Battery.
CONSOLES—
7-valve All-wave Vibrator in Regent Cabinet.
7-valve All-wave Vibrator in Century Cabinet.
7-valve All-wave Battery in Regent Cabinet.
7-valve All-wave Battery in Century Cabinet.
PORTABLE—
5-valve Broadcast Vibrator.
ELECTRIC MODELS.
MANTELS—
-- Dual-wave.
8- All-wave.
CONSOLES—
7-valve Dual-wave in Regent Cabinet'.
7- Dual-wave in Century Cabinet.
8- All-wave in Regent Cabinet.
8-valve All-wave in Century Cabinet.
13-valve All-wave in Regent Cabinet.
RADIOGRAMS —Electric Models—
-- Dual-wave.
8- All-wave.
1 3-valve All-wave.
RADIOGRAMS —Country Models—
7-valve All-wave Vibrator powered.
7-valve All-wave Battery powered.
THE “REGENT.”
ULTIMATE PORTABLE.
Ideal for operation in your car on
journeys to the camp or week-ender.
Extremely economical in use, and
transportable to any location.
Two set adaptability and performance
for the price of one.
mm
PRICE
25 Guineas.
23 Guineas Less Battery.
BE FAIR TO YOURSELF WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
Sole Australian Concessionaires:
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY., LTD.
Electrical and Industrial Engineers,
267 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Cable, Radio and Telegrams: “Brownlock,” SYDNEY.
’Phones: M 2544 (3 lines).
Please send me, without obligation, details of the Special New De
Luxe “ULTIMATE” RECEIVERS.
NAME
ADDRESS
(State whether battery or electric and voltage and type of current of
power supply.)


KIDNEYS
CAUSE OF
MANY BACKACHES
Flush Out 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 miles of tiny tubes or filters which
strain the waste and acids from the blood. A
healthy person should' pass 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in. the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. It may
lay you up for many months.
Don’t wait ! Ask your chemist for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . used success-
fully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney dis-
orders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 214 of 1939.
BETWEEN MORA CAMPBELL BUTLER
Petitioner
And WILLIAM LESLIE JAMES BUTLER
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM LESLIE JAMES BUTLER
formerly of Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MORA CAMP-
BELL BUTLER has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twentieth day of June One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of March,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, 2 York
Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 406 of 1938.
BETWEEN DOREEN THELMA FRANCES
GARTLAN Petitioner
And. WILLIAM GEORGE GARTLAN
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM GEORGE GARTLAN the
abovenamed respondent.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOREEN
THELMA FRANCES GARTLAN has com-
menced a suit against you in this Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause of excuse And take
notice that you are required enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Third day of July One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine, and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may. be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Third day of April, a.d. 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
BRAYE, CRAGG & COHEN, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Bolton Street, Newcastle; by
their Agents, BRAYE & MALCOMSON,
Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1716 of 1938.
BETWEEN JANET ROBINSON WESTCOTT-
BURROWS Petitioner nti TT . n ,rc
And LESLIE HENRY JOSEPH CHARLES
WESTCOTT-BURROWS Respondent
TO LESLIE HENRY JOSEPH CHARLES
WESTCOTT-BURROWS late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales
TAKE NOTICE that the said JANEI
ROBINSON WESTCOTT-BURROWS has
commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the ground of your desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and
Upwards AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the saia
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Ninth day of June On
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in
the event of your not doing so within tn
limited time or obtaining further time the Pe
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard
determined your absence notwithstanding,
copy of the petition filed herein may.be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
Ch DATED the .Fifth day of Aprd, 1939^
(L ' S ' ) ‘ ' Registrar.
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
When Major-General Blarney and his
son Tom issued invitations for a joint
cocktail party only a small percentage of
the several hundred guests invited guessed
that a wedding was in the air. Tom, sen.,
and Olga Farnsworth (with Tom, jun., as
best man and keeper of the ring) had
been married earlier in the afternoon at
St John’s, Toorak. It was a large and
merry party at the West Brighton Club,
with all the old brigade present to wish
the General luck. He made a speech, and
was allowed to finish it. Fire Chief John
Wilkins also proposed a toast arfiidst the
ringing of bells and several false alarms
of fire. John Williams, with his movie
camera, recorded several of the congratu-
latory scenes. General Blarney’s bride
has made a name for herself in, Mel-
bourne as a very successful commercial
artist. One of this city’s largest stores
attributes a number of the brightest spots
upon its balance sheet to her skill in
drawing and laying out advertisements.
The Fleet is in port, and there is a burst
of parties on board the ships, with din-
ners and other preliminaries on shore to
help put everybody in a festive mood.
The cruisers have brought an epidemic
of beards to Melbourne. In such a prac-
tical age officers and men are finding
shaving a bore when away at sea, and a
crop of whiskers on shore (so they say)
is of as much interest as a smart girl’s
smartest hat. At the Ballet one evening
Lieut.-Commander Bacon, of the Sydney,
gave the audience a close-up of his black
beard which didn’t quite hide his pleasant
smile. In a box at the same perform-
ance was Krafft Christian Tesdorpf, tall
and unusually vivacious for a German.
He was accompanied by his fiancee,
Nancy Griffiths. The Peter Manifolds were
present, she in black, pearls and silver
foxes. Mrs. Hamish Macdonald wore
black sheer figured in shilling-sized white
spots.
Wives are wanted down at Dromana.
The Douglas Pickings and their family
will answer all inquiries, and are ready
to welcome new inhabitants for their
Fauna Park. A mallee fowl and a bush
turkey are particularly lonely bachelors
with homes all ready and going to waste ;
a mound of earth in one pen, a warm
and comfortable patch of leaf-mould in
the other. There are husbands also wait-
ing for emus and peafowls. (A rattle-
brained little domestic fowl once fell
badly for one of the peacocks, who was
bored by the whole affair, and rather
annoyed that a member of the lower
classes should have been so presump-
tuous.) New blood is also urgently wanted
among the wombats, two of whom dislike
each other so intensely that their lives
are ruined.
Another reserved bachelor is a crow.
He could, of course, go courting in the
bush if he wanted to, but he’s too lazy.
The giant petrel has no future of con-
nubial bliss to look forward to, for by
rights he should be sitting on an iceberg
down below the Antarctic forties. He was
blown on to Dromana beach with an in-
jured wing and brought to the Fauna
Park for medical attention. When con-
valescent, Mr. Picking took him down to
the beach to see him off on his long fly
south towards the Polar regions, but the
petrel wasn’t having any, and waddled
along the sand in the footsteps of his first
human friend.
Acting on the principle of the early
bird catching the fattest worm, the
American Women’s Auxiliary is already
fluffing up its feathers for the Fourth of
July Ball. Regarding the date, realism
succumbs to imagination, for the fourth
falls on a Tuesday, and Friday, with a
week-end lying-by for recovery, is un-
questionably the best night for a big
spree, so the ball is to be held on June
30, in the Palais as usual. It will be
called the Golden Gate Siesta, appropri-
ate to the season of the ’Frisco Ex-
hibition, souvenirs from which will be
among novelties for sale.
Mrs. Norman Picot is hon. organiser
of the ball and Mrs. Luigi Luiggi propa-
gandist-in-chief. She has recently re-
turned from the U.S.A. Other auxiliary
members with overseas voyages just be-
hind them are Mrs. Jud Holt and Mrs.
James Welker. Mrs. Douglas Jeppe, who
will be doing the round for lucky-dip
stock, is off to the U.S.A. in the near
future, but with any luck her date of
sailing will be after the Siesta.
One of to-day’s brides is Margaret
Wright (Spencer Shier photograph),
daughter of Lieut.-Colonel and Mrs.
F. H. Wright, who is to be married to
Ron Marriott. The ceremony in the
church will be very quiet, but afterwards
there will be congratulations in plenty at
Darling-street. The honeymooners will
embark on the Monterey for the U.S.A.,
and will travel round the world before
they return to Melbourne in six months’
time. Mr. Marriott is a much-travelled
young man and will be revisiting many
places, but his bride, although she went
to Europe after she left school, is look-
ing forward to America with all the an-
ticipation of an explorer bound for an
unknown country.
Every year room for students at the
University becomes more of a problem.
Although there has been a considerable
expansion of buildings, the growth in
bricks and mortar isn’t fast enough for
the increase in population. When lec-
tures commenced for 1939 the profes-
sorial board pondered upon how all the
freshers were going to be accommodated,
the students in their turn hoped for pews
to sit upon, and members of the staff
made rough calculations on the small
percentage of the students they would
have a chance of getting to know during
the year’s work. An alteration made at
the University Council’s last monthly
meeting affects deceased soldiers’ children
in that, whereas in the past there were
six bursaries available, there are now
only three.
The William Mortills left last week
for abroad in the Ceramic, having
changed their plans. They had intended
travelling in French ships, with an early
change over in Noumea. While Mr.
Mortill has an urge to seek the sunny
shores of the Mediterranean and the
romantic beauties and historical associa-
tions of the isles of Greece, Madame is
bound for a colder, flatter region in
northern Europe —Riga and the Baltic
States. It is in Riga that her relatives
are living.
So fast on the steps of the Ballet that
performances overlapped came the Casino
Revue at the King’s, “Black Limelight”
at the Comedy (both had opening nights
on Easter Saturday) and Lotte Lehmann’s
first concert in the Town Hall on Tues-
day (11th). The field for Easter was
further widened by the Phil.’s perform-
ance of “Elijah” on Good Friday, by the
final Goluboff recital at the Town Hall,
and by a display of magicianship from
Nicola at the Princess.
The Ballet’s - short return season was
an undisputed success, with excellent
houses and a large percentage of bare
shoulders and boiled shirts. Mrs. D. J.
S. Mackinnon, of Skipton, was noticed
at one change of programme wearing her
gorgeous diamonds with kindred luxuries
of a full-length coat of silver fox, orchids
and a further embellishment of green
ostrich feathers aloft in her hair. The
same evening the Ken Von Bibras were
there, Mrs. Ken in an ankle-length coat
of black velvet.
Other lads of that generation present
included John Guest with fiancee
Prudence Fairbairn, Dr. Bill King with his
father, E. W. King, .and Jim Watt, who
escorted his mother, whose lovely gown
of rose-dust chiffon was studded with nail-
head beads. An Adelaide visitor who en-
joyed the programme was Mrs. G. H.
West. Alison Syme was there, having
plucked her color scheme from the vine-
yard—a leaf-green coat over a frock of
purple-grape taffeta. Gwenda Carney’s
dimples were in evidence ; so were her
blue taffeta coat and simple frock of
white sheer, sprinkled with pastel spots.
Mrs. Ford Guthrie’s lovely white satin
gown had a square-cut back ; Mrs. Daryl
Best wore black and, always a safe
choice, a handful of gardenias.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Zelma Sprague, youngest daughter of the
Leslie Spragues, of Charlemont, Geelong,
who was leading lady in a Geelong wed-
ding solemnised yesterday (Tuesday).
Bridegroom Jack Essington King motored
down from Ipswich, Queensland, for the
ceremony.
Those invited to witness a demonstra-
tion of the Cecchetti method of classical
dancing in Nicholas Buildings had the
rare experience of hearing M. Dandre
speak in public. It is something of an
occasion that causes him to break the
habits of many years. M. Dandre has no
social leanings, and he takes no joy in
publicity, but he knew Cecchetti well, for
the old maestro was Pavlova’s friend and
teacher. Pat Dolin also spoke. It was
one of his good days, when he wore a
twinkle in his eye. He referred to
Cecchetti in laudatory terms, but admitted
that he was “difficult,” and hinted that
there were times when he wore horns
and a tail. M. Algeranoff (“Algie” to
his friends) was also a speaker, and he
gave the audience the chance of seeing
him as he really is, minus the character
make-up under which he hides in practi-
cally ever ballet.
Madame Lucie Saronova and Clair
Aytoun organised the display of Cecchetti
methods, summarised from first exercises
to advanced work. The children taking
part came from half a dozen schools
which teach from the Cecchetti syllabus,
the smaller pupils in their white tunics
of classical simplicity, the elder girls in
black tights and green tunics. The finale
of the afternoon was an example of the
finished ballerina, a solo from “Aurora’s
Wedding,” performed by Mdlle Sanina
(of the Russian Ballet, who was a
Cecchetti student). Lisa Serova and Jan
Hoyer also hoped to come and give the
young students a treat, but the clock
and rehearsals were against them, and
they couldn’t manage it. Another bal-
lerina present was Helen Wolska, whose
sprained ankle has prevented her dancing
for several weeks. She is the Helen
Forbes referred to so favorably in Dolin’s
Ballet-Go-Round.
The Russian Ballet is leaving behind
in Melbourne one of its versatile mem-
bers, Edward Borovansky, who will open
a studio of dancing on May 1. He is
definite about the date, though he has not
yet decided upon the locality. M. Boro-
vansky shows little sign of the wear and
tear of travel, though he has been living
in suitcases for 15 years. He is fair-
skinned, doesn’t look much over 30, and
is of medium height with wide, square
shoulders and a serious demeanor, which
perhaps is augmented by the politics of
the time. He’s a Czech, and all news is
bad news which he receives from his own
country.
Another spot of dancing gossip is that
Phillida Cooper has been taken to the
hearts of Osato, Denisova, Sobinova and
some other young members of the Ballet.
She will have them as travelling com-
panions in the Orford, and on the train
from Toulon to Paris, for they also are
bound for more study at Egorova’s
school.
Melbourne’s first-nighters reacted rather
coldly to the Casino Revue’s “Follies
d’Amour” until the arrival of the Six
Danwells, when the audience suddenly
arose from its lethargy and clapped the
skin off its hands applauding the acro-
bats’ skill and balance. Climax of the
act was when a member of the troupe
shot from a springboard, turned two
somersaults in mid-air and landed on the
shoulders of another man, who in his
turn was already balanced on the shoul-
ders of yet another acrobat. The scene,
programmed as “Under the Sea” was
an elaborate copy of the Folies Bergeres
act with the pearl, the diver, mermaids
and sea monsters, a net full of fish, dim
lights and seaweedy scenery.
Critics of the show whose opinion
was of interest to one another in-
cluded a foursome in one box, Jennie
and Eileen Brennan, Pat Dolin and
Otis Pearce. In the audience some
white frocks came in for particular
admiration, among them Albion
Walklev’s gown of blistered crepes and
Freda Connolly’s clouds of tulle, like an
orange-tree in blossom. Lady Colvin’s
frock verged towards the cyclamens and
the violets. Yvonne Richardson’s lean-
ings towards midnight-blue found an
echo of two bluebirds in her hair. Mrs.
Dan Reddan wore white gardenias in her
fair locks.


MACMILLANS
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the books are
published in London. Prices outside the British
isles must be fixed by the importing bookseller.
New Novels
(Overseas Library)
E. M. DEL AFIELD:
“Three Marriages.”
“Good entertainment.”
—“Yorkshire Post.”
A. G. MACDONELL:
“The Spanish Pistol
and Other Stories.”
“He has rarely been in better form.”
— “Observer”
ANNA GORDON KEOWN:
“Wickham’s Fancy.”
“A lovely story.”— “British Weekly.”
NAOMI ROYDE SMITH:
“The Altar-piece.”
“A very good story.”
—“Yorkshire Post.”
RICHMAL CROMPTON:
“Merlin Bay.”
A lively seaside story.
COTTAGE LIBRARY,
New Volumes,
2s. and 2s. 6d.
By THOMAS HARDY:
“The Woodlanders.”
“The Mayor of Casterbridge.”
To. be obtained from all
booksellers and
MACMILLAN & CO. Ltd.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Stomach
Distress
and
Acidity
NEW TREATMENT ENDS CAUSE.
Stomach distress, acidity and constipation
are at last being successfully overcome by a
new method that is simple, natural and
scientific. Specialists now say that acid
stomach does not result from just indigestion,
for this, too, is only a condition arising from
a real cause. Stomach acidity is actually due
to self-poisoning—i.e.—a clogged colon. That
is why “stomach medicines” fail to give
lasting relief. As a result of inactivity of
the colon (large intestine), all the food
refuse is not passed out of the body. Instead,
it encrusts on the colon walls and there fer-
ments and putrefies. Virulent poisons and
acids seep into the bloodstream and are then
carried throughout the body, making the
whole system acid.
These fermenting, irritating poisons in the
colon develop gas and acids which penetrate
to the stomach and inflame its delicate lin-
ing. Food instead of being digested
“sours,” causing indigestion, bloating, belch-
ing, soreness and burning, sickness, heart-
burn, acidity, ulcers and constipation.
To get rid of stomach acidity for good, you
must first cleanse away the fermenting, acid-
developing waste from the colon. Ordinary
bowel movements cannot do this—the walls
of the colon become too weak and sluggish.
Opening medicines only purge the lower end
of the bowel. So drink warm water and
‘COLOSEPTIC’ every morning. This cleanses
the stomach and colon of all irritating waste,
tones up the colon walls, giving them back
their full normal action. It corrects all acid
conditions in the stomach and bowels,
soothes inflamed, irritated tissues and re-
stores the body’s alkaline reserve. ‘COLO-
SEPTIC’ also activates the action of the
kidneys, pores of the skin and the lungs—
other vital organs which eliminate acids and
poisons from the system.
‘COLOSEPTIC’ —the better internal cleanser
—builds a new kind of stomach health. It
checks self-poisoning, thus enabling your
food to nourish you and add firm flesh and
muscle. At all chemists. Individual size,
2/9; economy size, 5/6. FREE SAMPLE—
Send 3d. stamps for postage, a liberal Free
Trial Sample and interesting, intimate book
will be sent you—COLOSEPTIC (Aust.) Ltd.,
26 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
“Kaloa”: The Salamaua-Wau road
(N.G.) is approved but not built yet. Sur-
veyors are still busy, and it will be three
months before tenders are called for the
first section. It is intended first to spend
18 months cutting down a track which
will let traffic get through to the fields.
Then solid work will be begun where
heavy construction is necessary. There
are 600 members of the N.G. Mining
Association, and they are to find as much
of the £150,000 needed as they can (in-
terest 4 p.c.), the Administration produc-
ing the rest. In view of the importance
of the job to defence and development
of the hill and valley country behind, the
Commonwealth might shout the Terri-
tory a decent large-scale road plant, and
subsidise further construction. Since gold
is the only thing which at present keeps
the Mandate out of the Bankruptcy
Court, every effort should be made to
help extend the fields.
* * * Jjs
“J. Want”: The withdrawal of Papua
Oil Development from New Guinea gives
a big knock to hopes of finding oil in
the island. The co. was a Shell con-
cern, and the first to begin operations
after the revision of the oil law in 1936.
It has spent £430,000. However, Aus-
tralasian Petroleum, which amalgamates
Anglo-Iranian, Vacuum and Oil Search,
is going on with the job, and E. F.
Griffin, of Oil Search, “expects to be
able to make a drilling recommendation
within the next few months.”
* * * *
“Victoria R.”: All this wet weather
has been a glorious time for Brother
Croc. Around the Johnstone River
(N.Q.) country you are liable to meet
saurians taking constitutionals every-
where. There is a rumor that one went
down the main street of Halifax the
other night. Horses and cattle have been
several times lost. But no tail-wagger
has yet dared the feat of one that climbed
out of Ross Creek just after the war
and, strolling into the Townsville post
office arcade just before midnight, nearly
frightened to death a policeman who met
it while posting a letter.
* * * *
“X.T.”: C. T. Madigan may lead an
expedition across the so-called Simpson
Desert (B. 5/4/’39) but I doubt if he
will be the first white man to cross it.
It is a painfully casual characteristic
about the outback Australian that he
sometimes does things unofficially, for-
gets to mention it, and then afterwards
quietly laughs when an “expedition” does
it. Knowing some of the lads of the
village round the Cooper and the, Geor-
gina 30 years ago, I have. my doubts
about there being much pioneering to
be done. Even when the heroes who
crossed the Blue Mountains climbed
those forbidding they found 60
miles from Sydney a cairn of rocks, since
attributed by guesswork to Caley
and Bass, and they found cross-tracks
further back. Also, they were shown
“Better chase that goanna before ’e drinks the dam dry , Ma."
the way up the hills by kangaroo-
shooters, to whom no acknowledgment
appears in their diaries. And, two years
before, Flinders, a careful and workman-
like person, had given evidence before a
House of Commons Committee in Lon-
don that he had been 60 miles inland in
N. S. Wales, and that he knew other
persons who had been 100 miles inland
(Blaxland travelled about 90 miles).
Incidentally, there was a little-recorded
expedition which followed Blaxland and
Lawson —five convicts who found their
way by another route into the B.M-, and
without even decent footwear, much less
food, horses or servants, succeeded in
staying there as long as the “three gentle-
men from South Creek.” They were
rewarded officially for their hardihood
and the vaunting ambition which had led
them to attempt to reach the western sea,
build a boat and sail to England—loo
lashes each and a period in irons, if I
remember rightly.
* * * *
“El V.”: From Brisbane “Courier-
Mail”: —
Miss Blank, who is 37 years of age,
was formerly a typist in an insurance
office in Melbourne While on a
visit to medical missionaries in India in
1928, she won distinction as one of the
first white women to travel alone across that
country.
The “37” may be a misprint for 137 and
the “1928” for 1828.
* * * *
“Munni”: There should not be much
cheering, though a good deal of cynical
laughter in the North, at the report of
the Aerial Geological and Geophysical
Survey, which has cost the Common-
wealth £128,000 in three years. It is run
by a committee of three Ministers, two
consultant geologists, a field staff of six,
a secretary and a section of the R.A.A.F.
The survey has extended to Pilbara,
East Kimberley and Wiluna (W.A.),
and to Croydon field (Q.), which
is 100 miles from Normanton, and
from which just on a million ounces
of poor gold —£2 Bs. 6d. per ounce
—has already been taken from half a
million tons of ore. There “fresh evi-
dence has been obtained of the struc-
tural features controlling the ore-shoots,”
and “the area should be included in the
programme of search by mining organ-
isations looking for possible gold prop-
erties.” A little magnetic probing might
now be done at the Commonwealth
Treasury to see whether the public purse
can reasonably stand the racket of an
organisation which, since 1935, does not
seem to have put mineral production up
an ounce.
* * * *
“Dip”: Agree with “X.T.” (B. 5/4/’39)
that there is some splendid military
material going to waste in Centralia —as
good as could be found anywhere. There
are few who can’t handle a rifle with
telling accuracy ; there are potential trans-
port drivers of the first order in the men
who think nothing of a 300-mile stretch
at the wheels of five-, six- and seven-ton
trucks over country which at times is as
bad as, if not worse than, a battlefield
Then there are miners, with all the in-
genuity, capacity for work and courage
typical of their breed. Above all, many
are Diggers, and most are good, shrewd
Australians, hard, tough fellows with
guts.
* * * •
“Dick Tafone”: In the heat of debate
over a Government-vetoed sanitary con-
tract, Brisbane’s City Fathers got off some
pretty mixed metaphors. “It’s time we
got down to bedrock and dived into the
job,” one said. “Don’t listen to that
parrot over there,” advised another,
clearly no ornithologist. ‘‘He talks like
a nest of crows.” They don’t equal the
burst of patriotism with which a late
member informed Queensland’s solitary
House: “So long as Britain stands firmly
on the seas, holding the Navy in one
hand and the Dominions in the other,
she will never be knocked off her perch.”
* * * *
“Dungeness”: In former days brother
Binghi regarded the arrival of twins as
definite proof that Mrs. B. had been up
to games of an undesirable kind, and
promptly suppressed the evidence —
usually Mrs. B. as well. Now the out-
look has changed completely, particu-
larly since the Queensland Aboriginal
Department has taken to making a
present to the mother of several quid and
some dress material for herself and the
newcomers. During the last two years
two sets have been born at Mornington
Island, in the Gulf of Carpentaria, the
second to a mother who already had
ten children and was the grandmother of
13. Weipa station contributed another
set, Richmond two in succession from one
mother, and Cherbourg settlement yet
another. Now Atherton has come on the
map with a seventh set. All parents are
full-bloods.
* * * *
“Scat”: N.T. Administrator Abbott,
returning to the subject of those fuel
tanks at Darwin:
They are tucked away behind a hill and
could not possibly be hit by a shell. They
could be destroyed only by a land force or
a submarine, or by a destroyer which had
entered Darwin harbor.
By Mr. Abbott’s reasoning, Australia
could be attacked only by warships,
’planes and armies, and therefore we have
nothing to worry about.
* * * *
“Melville”: The Commonwealth patrol
boat Kuru, much photographed by the
Sydney press last year, and advertised as
a terror of the seas, had been so un-
obtrusive in her movements the last few
months that some believed her to have
been souvenired. Actually she has been
on the stocks at Townsville since Septem-
ber, when she broke down. She went out
on a trial cruise at the end of March, but
limped home with her skipper muttering
that the engine would “need more ad-
justments” before she put to sea. Most
of her crew have been manning the
Larrakia, and that unlucky vessel will
now be brought to Sydney for over-
haul and reconditioning. They are bring-
ing her on the Montoro’s deck.
* * Jfc #
“Clayfield”: Anybody who wishes to
attend the Anzac Day dawn ceremony
in Brisbane will have to get into training
early. It is a service which has more
symbolical significance than any other
connected with Anzac Day; but the
logical Tramway Department has de-
cided that, if men of the A.I.F. could
walk ashore at Anzac in 1915, they can
walk to the ceremony. Anyway, there
are to be no trams. If there were it
might cost the Government a few bob
in overtime, and, as everybody knows,
our Government is a highly economical
institution —sometimes. The Anzac march
will be led by Lieut.-Gen. Squires, who
will be in Queensland at the time, but,
as usual, William Glasgow will com-
mand.
* * * *
“Tropicus”: All the clinical effort, the
expensive hospitals, the regimented medi-
cal services don’t seem to be doing much
to increase the population of Queensland.
There were fewer children born in the
State last year than the year before. Bris-
bane birthrate was the lowest per 1000 in
the State —15.9. The marriage rate was
the highest in history (2219 out of 8850
brides were minors), but the natural in-
crease was 9791 —under 1 p.c. of the
population. Infant mortality was 42 per
1000 live births—nearly seven per 1000
more than in 1937.


BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
Sectors say your virility and vig-
our depond greatly on your Hor-
mone Glands. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAT.
T.JONES £ CO.
CHEMIST...3I4 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
ķ
88% OF THE TOTAL
LICENCES IN THE WEST
are within 50 miles of
6PM
6KG
6AM
Perth .. .
Kalgoorlie
Northam. .
500 watts
500 watts
2000 watts
St. George’s House, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
flft
rmr-
The most perfect
PATENTED
TOOL-
HAMMER
with boring appara-
tus and drill chuck
for drills up to
sm/m.
Good article for
propaganda a n u
presents.
Indispensable for
anybody.
Very practicable for
Radio-set amateurs, for
car-owners and cyclists,
decorators and en-
gineers, for travel,
hunting, sport an d
household.
made of steel, all the
tools are of steel and
hardened, finely polishes
and nickelplated.
The tube of the tool-
liammer contains 1
tools with sm/m shank: l.dnll h l
reamer, 1 countersink, 1 rl f’P nfe ' ch ah .
awl, 1 broad and narrow seiew'Jnvei
Hammer which can be screwed , jht
hole and nail-lifter. Tool hammer wram
drill chuck
With drill chuck
WILLIS, BARRETT & DUNCAN, Ltd.
Indent Buyers, Shippers, Exporters
Importers, j
Masons Buildings, Sugden Place,
Melbourne, Victoria.
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Plate Detector Tuning
Indicator.
From “Radio” comes a simple scheme
for using a 6E5 “eye” valve as a tuning
indicator in the cathode circuit of the
second detector of an amateur band or
short-wave superhet. Many receivers
designed for maximum weak-signal re-
sponse use cathode-biased detectors. In
such receivers there is usually no source
of A.V.C. voltage suitable for operating
a tuning indicator of the “magic eye”
type. The circuit diagram shows how
an indicator of the 6E5 cathode-ray type
may be added to any receiver using such
a second detector.
Current flowing through the resistors
R 3 and R 4 places a practically fixed bias
on the 6E5. When a signal is received
the second detector cathode current flow-
ing through Rl and R 2 increases. This
action increases the voltage across R 2.
The increased voltage here is applied to
the 6E5 triode section grid, and balances
out the fixed bias, allowing the eye to
open. The action is the reverse of that
obtained when the eye is operated from
an A.V.C. line ; the eye opens on signals
and closes when no signal is being re-
ceived.
Rl can be the regular cathode resis-
tor, since the addition of the compara-
tively small resistance R 2 will have little
effect on the operation of the detector.
The 6E5 has a fairly linear relation
between shadow angle and grid bias
when the bias is varied from 0 to 6
volts, so R 2 should be of such a value
that the change in voltage developed
across it is six volts when going from
zero signal to the strongest received.
On 56, 6C5 and 6J7 valves used as bias
detectors, the variation in cathode cur-
rent when going from no-signal to full-
signal conditions will be not more than
one milliampere.
Assuming a variation of 0.8 milli-
ampere, and a voltage change of six
volts, the value of R 2 is 7500 ohms.
The value of R 3 is such that it will
develop across its terminals a voltage
of six, plus the no-signal voltage de-
veloped across R 2. Assuming a
no-signal current of 0.2 milliam-
pere through R 2 and Rl, the no-
signal voltage across R 2 is 1.5 volts.
Total voltage that must be de-
veloped across R 3 is thus six plus 1.5,
or 7.5 volts. Since the voltage across
R 3 and R 4 is 250 volts, the voltage across
R 4 must be 250 minus 7.5, or 242.5 volts.
Current through R 3 and R 4 (neglecting
the 6E5 cathode current flowing through
R 4 only, which is negligible) is therefore
242.5 divided by 50,000, or 4.9 milli-
amperes.
R 3 must be of a value to cause a drop
of 7.5 volts with 4.9 milliamperes
(0.0049 amperes) flowing through it; five
divided by 0.0049 is 1020. A 1500-ohm
resistor will be satisfactory. It must be
emphasised that eye valves such as the
6G5 and 6U5 will not work satisfactorily
in this circuit, as they are of the remote
cut-off type, and the shadow-angle, does
not vary linearly with bias voltage.
V.H.V.
Microphone Pre-amplifier
Grid Circuit Conditions.
When crystal microphones are used a
load impedance of about five megohms
is frequently specified. As is well known,
maximum resistance normally permissible
in the grid circuit of a valve is one
megohm, which may be increased to two
megohms for certain valve types when
resistance coupling is used.
It has been found possible to increase
the grid circuit resistance still further with
certain valves provided that the heater
voltage is decreased and that resistance
coupling is employed. Radiotron 6J7-G
(6C6) has completed extended-life tests
with a heater voltage of 4.5 volts.
Although under these conditions the
mutual conductance shows a slight de-
“You have just been listening to a talk by Professor Knowall entitled
Australia's Imminent Peril. ”
crease, this is comparatively unimportant,
and the valve has a long life when used
with limited plate current. No other
valve types are at present recommended
for this application, since their operation
with reduced voltages may be unsatis-
factory. The plate supply voltage should
not exceed 250 volts and the plate load
resistor should not be less than .25 meg-
ohm. The screen voltage should be de-
rived from a screen dropping resistor of
1.5 megohm from the plate supply volt-
age. Under these conditions the cathode
bias resistor should be 2000 ohms.
Smaller values of plate load resistor may
be used provided that the plate current
does not in any circumstances exceed
lma. A plate supply voltage lower than
250 volts is desirable in such cases. The
stage gain may be taken as being approxi-
mately the same as for full heater voltage.
High values of grid circuit resistance
are restricted because in all valves there
is a certain negative grid current flowing
under normal operating conditions. The
two main causes of this negative grid
current are, firstly, “gas current,” and,
secondly, “grid emission current.” Gas
current is approximately proportional to
the plate current, and when the plate
current is reduced, as with resistance
coupling and a high value of plate load
resistance, the gas current will be quite
small. Grid emission is caused by the
emission of electrons from the control
grid owing to the combined heating by
cathode and plate. By reducing the volt-
age across the heater the cathode tem-
perature is considerably reduced and the
grid heating reduced with it. Heating
due to the plate is reduced, owing to the
low plate current brought about by the
high load resistance. Consequently, by
a combination of resistance coupling
with a high value of plate load resistance
and a low heater voltage, it is possible
to increase the grid circuit resistance to
a maximum of five megohms with types
6J7-G or 6C6. This should only be done
in the first stage following the micro-
phone where the audio level is necessarily
low. It is not recommended for opera-
tion at a high audio level or with other
valve types.
VALCO.
Amateur Chatter.
The report of 56mc. reception of
VK2AK.I, Taree (N.S.W.), in Lidcombe,
Sydney, by u.-s.-w. listener C. Banbury
has now been confirmed. VK.2AKI was
at the time heard working locally with
VK2AEY, input to his equipment being
about two watts from battery power.
Banbury’s receiver is a tuned R.F. type
employing 1851 R.F. stage, 76 detector
with capacity reaction and 41 audio. It
is, except for the 1851 R.F. pentode,
identical with the Ultra-Searcher re-
ceiver (B. 3/ 8 / ’3B). Signal strength of
VK2AKI was Q 3 R 3. Weather condi-
tions prevailing over the eastern Aus-
tralian coastline that week-end were bois-
terous and cyclonic; temperature had
dropped quickly. Such conditions are
favorable for possible long-distance 56mc.
working.
Geoff Partridge, VK2VU, of Singleton
(M.S.W.), has received 56mc. C.W. sig-
nals from VK2NO. Receiving gear at
VK2VU is the 1851-6JBG superhet con-
verter in conjunction with a Radiotron
communications Eight receiver and a
WBJK two-section vertically polarised
beam aerial. A similar aerial is used
for transmission and reception at
VK2NO. Distance is about 100 miles
airline, and in this case totally over a
land path with ranges intervening. The
signal was very weak, with fading char-
acteristic, but the important point is that,
once a trace of a signal is found between
two such points, it can always be im-
proved upon. If communication is
wanted particularly between two points,
the “square-corner” reflector system de-
scribed in B. 5/4/’39 is worth a trial.
VK2AJH, Epping (N.S.W.), has re-
appeared, on the 56mc. band with a per-
fect quality telephony transmission.
Modulation system is Class B using 59 s,
and the innovation of automatic modu-
lation control is very effective. The
transmitter is designed for either crystal
or electron-coupled oscillator drive, and
is thus flexible to any degree.
On the morning of 2/4/’39 a test was
run between VK2AEY, of Taree
(N.S.W.), and VK2NO without result.
Weather conditions were unfavorable, but
later in the day overseas ultra-short-wave
broadcasters in the seven-metre region
were heard weakly at intervals. Around
nine metres a new Japanese broadcaster
in Tokio was heard strongly at 4.15 p.m.
The signal from this station varied from
R 2 to R 7. One or two ZLs were heard
in the 10-metre band during the after-
noon.
VKs’s on 56mc. in Adelaide district
have been cursing the presence of pirates,
but the practice has suddenly ceased, and
for a very sound reason. The R.I. caught
two of these illegal stations, and they were
fortunate to get away with a £lO fine
and confiscation of equipment.
Ultra-Searcher Log.
The original Ultra-Searcher receiver,
described in B. 3/8/’3B, is used by Eric
Trebilcock (BERSI9S)) for reception on
frequencies between five metres and 12
metres at Powell Creek, N.T. No S.W.L.
has more reception records to his credit
than BERSI9S, and after many years of
listening he will shortly take a more
active part on the air as a licensed ex-
perimental transmitter.
In contrast to 10-metre reception in
the south, his latest log for this band
is notable. Since the last report stations
logged on 10 metres include ON4DM,
SUIMW (’phone), G2AT, GBGQ, FBJR,
G6QX, GSUX, LA4P, G2IS, G6XA,
G2CR, IIMH, ON4AU, G6DH, PAOFB
(’phone), VU2AN, PAOEA, LYIJ,
GBDM (’phone), GBMH, 6GRB, VS2AS
(C.W. and ’phone), D3DSR, ON4FX,
GBJV, VS6AO, G2XC, G6CW, GBGI,
PKIVM (’phone), G2ZP, F3CX,
OH2NB, PAOWG, G6KS, G6NF,
D4GXF, OZINW, OHSNF, PAOXF,
SM7YA, VU2FO, VESAAR (’phone),
(’phone) and countless Ameri-
cans.
So far this year no Australian
signals have been heard on 10
metres in the N.T., and pains-
taking five-metre listening has
been without result. An interest-
ing feature of the many European
stations heard is that they were not in
contact with stations outside Europe at
the times heard, and VKSKO appeared
to be the only Australian working with
Europe. The last 10-metre entry in the
log was made on 19/2/’39, and up to
that time since commencing listening on
the band seven months previously
Trebilcock had logged 43 countries. As
for 20 metres, TG9BA on that band
made a score of 169 countries logged,
and verifications have come from 137
countries. BERSI9S will be in Sydney,
for a few weeks in May, and intends
to visit many experimental stations.
D.B.K.
Filament Voltage Limits of
1.4-volt Valves.
The new dry-cell valves should be
treated with respect for filament current
requirements in view of the fact that the
voltage of a new dry cell on load may be
approximately 1.58 volt. This is a little
above the maximum tolerance of the
1.4-volt series. Although it is probable that


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” {U .S./4.).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL.
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/- per year,
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year In
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Ofiice, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
TYRES
STURDY and TOUGH
in the best
Australian Tradition
Olympic tyres give service . . . long,
trouble-free resistance to the hard
usage which motoring conditions im-
pose on a tyre. In fitting Olympic
tyres you give yourself a personal
advantage and do a National service,
for Olympic tyres are Australian
through and through.
Fit Olympics—what you save stays
in your own pocket, what you spend
stays in your own country.
Refit with Olympic
AUSTRALIA’S
BEST TYRE
The Choice of 90% of
Australia’s Racing Drivers
OLYMPIC TYRE
DISTRIBUTORS
PTY. LTD.
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts.
Sydney
Olympic Cyres
Land Men/
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producers’ Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-tax return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations »
Sheep bought »
Wire netting »
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send t'he book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be prepared
free of further charge by experts in such a way as to reduce your
tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB), Sydney,
and your account book will be forwarded to you.
most valves will stand up to this voltage
without failure, there may be some which
may fail owing to open-circuited (burned-
out) filaments, caused by excessive volt-
age during the first few minutes of opera-
tion. Valves failing owing to voltage
overload of this kind are naturally not
covered by the manufacturer’s guarantee.
In order to bring the filament voltage
within the specified tolerances, the use
of a series resistor is recommended to
give a drop of about 0.08 volt with the
full current drain of the receiver. Latest
valves to be announced in this series by
Radiotron are the IG4G, a general-pur-
pose triode, and the IG6G, which is a
class-B twin triode.
L.-SM.
A STRIKING A.W.A. DISPLAY AT SYDNEY R.A.S.
1.4-volt Acorn Valves.
Full particulars are now available of
the new Radiotron “acorns” designed for
dry-cell operation of filaments. These
valves provide possibilities for the design
Socket connections for the new 1.4-volt
acorn valves.
of very compact and lightweight portable
ultra-short-wave equipment. The valves
are types 957, 958 and 959, with filaments
rated at 1.25 volts, intended for opera-
tion from a single flashlight dry cell
without series resistance. Filament cur-
rent of types 957 and 959 is 50ma with
lOOma. for type 958.
The 957 is a general-purpose triode
having a medium amplification factor for
use as detector, amplifier or oscillator.
The 958 is a larger triode, especially de-
signed for transmitter service as an
oscillator or R.F. amplifier. It may also
be used as an audio power valve to
operate a sensitive loudspeaker. The 959
is a sharp cut-off pentode intended for
use as an R.F. amplifier or detector, but
it may also be used as a resistance-
coupled audio amplifier with moderate
gain. The centre filament terminal of
each type is connected within the valve
to the negative side of the filament. The
suppressor grid of the 959 is internally
connected to the negative filament ter-
minal.
Types 957 and 959 may be operated
with filaments in series, but series-parallel
connection of either of these types is
recommended owing to the excessive volt-
age that would be developed across the
remaining valve if one filament should
become open-circuited. Series operation
of all types is permissible if a resistor of
25 ohms is shunted across the filaments
of types 957 and 959.
R.F. by-passing of these valves at the
socket terminals by means of high-
quality condensers is essential in order
to provide the shortest possible circuit
returns, and to realise the full capabili-
ties of the valves at ultra-high frequencies.
Conventional by-passing methods are not
adequate. One convenient method of
by-passing is to use ribbon leads to the
clips and to insulate these by mica
spacers to form by-pass condensers right
at the valve terminals. It is important
that the grid, plate and screen circuits
be by-passed to the negative filament in
order to avoid R.F. interaction through
common return circuits.
It may also be advisable in some
applications to supplement the action of
the by-pass condensers by R.F. chokes
placed close to the condensers in the
returns or in the electrode supply leads.
Tentative ratings and characteristics are
as follows:
959,
-957, 958, Sharp
Small Larger Cut-off
Triode. Triode. Pentode.
Filament voltage (D.C.) .. .. 1.25 1.25 1.25 Volts
Filament current 0.05 0.10 0.05 Ampere
Plate voltage 135 max. 135 max. 135 max. Volts
Suppressor t
Screen voltage .. .. •• 67.5 max. Volts
Grid voltage* —5 —7.5 -3
Plate current 2 3 1.7 Mi lamps
Screen current 0.4 Milliamps
Plate resistance (approx.) .. .. 24,600 10,000 800,000 Ohms
Amplification factor .. .. 16 12 480
Transconductance 650 1,200 600 Micromhos
Bulb T-4i T-4+
Terminal mounting Special Special Special
* Maximum resistance in the grid circuit should not exceed 0.5 megohm.
t Connected to minus filament at mounting.
V.C.
Radio Comment.
“Querex”: With ultra-short waves
being increasingly used a real problem
presents itself in the way of chronic inter-
ference from motor-car ignition systems.
Car-manufacturers in England are being
asked to turn out all cars with suppres-
sion devices. Effect on a television screen
of a passing car is a mass of white
splashes, accompanied through the sound
channel by a machine-gunlike popping.
Another problem is that of unscreened
diathermy apparatus, now used exten-
sively in radio surgery. In U.S.A. dia-
thermy machines have been creating
widespread interference with radio com-
munication, and investigation revealed
that in many instances such interference
could come from a source more than a
thousand miles distant. It was proved
that interference does not occur if power
lines are filtered, and if the entire dia-
thermy outfit is placed in a shield. It
was suggested that all medical apparatus
be designed to operate on one of several
frequencies, but there are objections to
this procedure, both by radiomen and
medicoes. Neither side has the exclusive
right to the use of high-frequency equip-
ment, and, on the other hand, neither has
the right to destroy the high frequencies
for the other. Both need the wave-
lengths, and both perform essential and
important services. In view of this, it
seems imperative that the differences need
to be amicably and speedily settled.
*** - *
“R.W.S.”: In some receivers it is pos-
sible partly to eliminate flutter on short
waves by using a small grid-coupling con-
denser to reduce the audio-frequency
response below, say, 60 C/S. Flutter
generally occurs at a frequency well
below 60 C/S.
* * * *
“A.W.M.”: “Norwood” complains in
B. 29/3/ ? 39 of dial lamps burning out
after short service. My experience is
that such troubles are largely due to the
use of torch lamps instead of those de-
signed for radio work. The cheaper
torch variety is designed only for inter-
mittent use and does not last long in a
circuit of continuous current flow.
In America the new General Electric
television transmitting station will cover
an area comprising Schenectady, Albany,
Troy, Amsterdam and Saratoga. Pro-
grammes will serve an audience of more
than 500,000.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
(1) Would it be possible to design a nine- to
1000 -metre T.R.F. receiver of the type described
B. 22/3/’39, operating from a vibrator power
supply, which would include the 900-metre
aviation wave-length as well as those of the
aerial medical service stations on 34, 44, 56, 72
and 148 metres? (2) How would the cost
compare with usual run of receivers? —764.
(1) Yes. (2) Somewhat more than the usual
plug-in coil type experimental receiver. Further-
more, it would need to be built and adjusted
by somebody with a. fair amount of experience
in the construction and calibration of special
experimental short-wave receivers. Allow about
£4O.


m
m
m
think
ABOUT
SAFETY
CftR
1939
ANY
BUY
YOU
BEFORE
ioun m
COULD DEPEND ON THE ANSWERS
TO THESE TWO QUESTIONS
j WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF YOUR FRONT TYRE
' AND TUBE BLEW OUT AT 60?
You’d be safer in a Hudson with exclusive Auto-Poise Control! Why?
Because this revolutionary mechanical invention (patent applied for)
automatically helps keep wheels .on their course—on rough roads, in
heavy side winds, even when a tyre blows out . It is a built-in feature—
no other car has anything like it.
0 WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF YOUR HYDRAULIC
BRAKES SUDDENLY FAILED?
You’d be safer in a Hudson with exclusive Double-Safe Brakes! Why?
Thanks to Hudson s exclusive Double-Safe Brakes —two braking systems
(finest Bendix Hydraulics and a separate reserve mechanical system)
working automatically from the same foot pedal. Double-Safe Brakes
are standard on all 1939 Hudsons.
k
WITH SENSATIONAL NEW
AcVtiMrtfO /V «« /Wit /VV4«t«MI#V yIAO/l
Brings a new driving ease —ensures
perfect control of your car .
©For your 1939 car choose a new Hudson
and be master of the highways of the world!
Yet drive more safely than in any other car
built to-day !
For, while Hudson Sixes and Eights hold
more than eighty official performance records
. . . while they have won countless road races
and endurance trials . . . they are the only
cars which give you the extra protection of
Double-Safe Brakes and* the built-in steadi-
ness, sureness and added safety of the Auto-
Poise Ride!
You’ll find these the most beautiful and
luxurious cars in Hudson history. You’ll
discover ruggedness and strength not even
the roughest roads affect . . . value through-
out that no other cars can match! Drive a
new 1939 Hudson and see the extra value
and safety that only Hudsons provide.
THE LOWEST PRICED
HUDSONS IN HISTORY
6
Model depicted is the new
1939 Hudson “One-Eighteen.”
MMRt
ass#?#.
J sggSgmSg 5
ks,
m
[' '!
m
X
I
HUDSON “ONE-TWELVE”
HUDSON “ONE-EIGHTEEN”
HUDSON COUNTRY CLUB SERIES
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED
(Incorporated in England),
Sir John Young Crescent,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney.
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS, LTD.,
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
(Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide.)
Hudson Motor-car Company.
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
West Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland Distributors:
OVERLAND, LTD.,
Cnr. Constance & Wickham Sts.,
Brisbane.
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-73 Bathurst Street, Hobart,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.
2XN.58.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
a 4, ?. j h
V 1
■hr*
i^>
CjA^~
cU vv( jJ
r*^
The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
THE
HOTEL
LONDON
99 Elizabeth St.,
(next Collins St.)
Melbourne
Hot and Cold
Water, Telephone
and Central Heat-
ing, Reading Lamp
to Every Bedroom.
MELBOURNE'S MOST
CENTRAL HOTEL.
RATES PER DAY.
Room and Meals .... from 12/6
Room and Breakfast . . from 7/6
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney’s Royal Show.
Sydney’s Royal Show each year be-
comes less and less the shop-window dis-
play of Australian rural products it
should be. The products are 'still there,
painstakingly displayed and steadily im-
proving, but they are embedded in a con-
glomeration of Indians, chuck wagons,
mounties, fat women, flea circuses, yogis
and tailed boys.
It rained heavily on the opening day
this year, but the judging rings and stalls
everywhere showed signs of drought.
The cattle sections were a tribute to the
gallantry of some exhibitors. On every
side tales were told of properties eaten
out by ’hoppers or burnt out by bushfires.
It was natural that cattle entries should
fall off. Still, there were 600 beefs in the
ring—more than used to be exhibited
in boom years before the depression. The
position is all the more remarkable in
that beef stud prices have fallen to shame-
fully low levels.
While the Australian Meat Board is
trying to teach Australian beefgrowers
the necessity for improving their cattle
by the use of pure-bred herd bulls, no-
body seems to want stud animals save
at bargain prices. All States will shortly
have to follow the example of Victoria
and legislate to improve standards. There
is no hesitation about dealing legally with
noxious weeds. In some beef districts
the scrub bull is a greater enemy to pros-
perity than any burrs.
The Shorthorns suffered badly through
the absence of the Milton Park team —
sold out a few months ago at about 2\
times the price for the lot that the owner
originally paid for a single sire. Roy
McCaughey, however, has taken Anthony
Hordern’s place as the show-ring leader,
and the courage which he showed in de-
pression years in building up with im-
ported and expensive local stock is pay-
ing for itself. His one-time champipn
bull Coonong Grenadier is losing his
form, and was beaten by the imported
Aldsworth Royal Prince from Coombing
Park. i ,
The latter is a natural champion. His
red coat brings out his splendid lines and-
emphasises a magnificent head and grand
style. And he had the best reference for
my champion—a fine exhibited progeny.
These have not the refinement of their
sire, but are none the worse for that in
point of usefulness.
The younger Shorthorn classes were
largely dominated by Coonong, which
won both the junior championship and
the reserve in bull classes.- The cham-
pions are strong, and lack the tails of
earlier winners. Coonong Hostage was
the junior champion, a magnificent Scot-
tish type red, the lowest-set youngster
of his age seen in Sydney for many a
year. His preliminary was the 12-to-15-
months class. Peel River Co. took the
female championship with Abbotslea
Maid, last year’s winner. She bred dur-
ing the year and had a rare calf to show,
but her head is not all that is called for
in a champion.
The polled championship bull was
owned by J. T. Scrymgeour, the blind
Digger breeder of Netherby (Q.), a stocky
red imported American, and the female
championship went to Frank Simpson,
Gunnawarra, Gulargambone, with his
Sultana 11th.
The veteran J. A. Beattie, of Narran-
dera (N.S.W.), who has operated in more
metropolitan rings than any other man
in the business, gave the Hereford cham-
pionship to Percy Reynolds’s Golf Hill
Vulcan, last year’s winner. Hobartville
bought him from Mrs. Biddlecombe, but
bred his sire, many times champion of
the R.A.S. He is a well-matured, stylish
bull, handling splendidly. He would
stand a chance of holding his place in
any show-ring in the world. The runner-
up was Windsor Puritan from William
Mcllrath’s Myall Creek. He won the.
under-18-months class among 41 bulls
and the junior championship.
Fenwick Brothers’ Myall Carissima
was female champion. In the polled
section Mrs. U. M. Hordern took both
the senior and junior sashes with the
young Milton Comrade, under 18
months, which beat the imported Yankee
Pawnee Rollo, 58, last year’s winner..
Cudgeena Modern Day 3rd, owned by
L. F. Leake, was the female sash-wearer.
The minor breeds —though why the
Aberdeens remain in the background is
“I lost her last Week, so I'm not taking any more, risks.”
a mystery—showed a reduction in num-
bers, but there was more competition in
the Devons classes, which Mr. Hunter
White, of Havilah, has kept going for
many years.
The dairy breeds had felt the effect
of the drought. Jerseys were the . only
section which seemed up to normal. E.
Chegwidden’s unbeaten cow Austral Park
Cowslip Royal took the honors:
The Illawarra M.S. had only 188
entries as against 206 last year, and a
fifth of them came from the Dudgeon
Stud —in unfamiliar surroundings these
days at Parkview,' Camden (N.S.W.),
after generations at Jamberoo. Parkview
Eva 15th and Parkview Beauty 9th were
champion and reserve among the cows.
F. A. Macintosh won the male Ayr-
shire championship with the S. Austra-
lian-bred Glen Belah Reuben, beating
the ex-Queenslander Myola. Bonnie
Willie. Macintosh’s El Rimal Winsome,
producer of 7701 b. butterfat in 273 days
last year, headed the female prize-
winners, with a stud mate as reserve. For
20 years there has been little to touch
the Macintosh studs for constitution.
Friesians seem to be going out of
popularity, but old stagers like the
Lamonds, of Nowra, were there with
strong teams of high standard.
The district exhibits showed most
marks of the drought, but also most
marks of the tenacity and enthusiasm of
the organisers. Only the Hunter River
district decided to abandon its effort, and
the decision was practically forced on
the promoters by general conditions.
North Coast—winners of 14 out of 26
competitions—stood well up to its repu-
tation, but the N.S.W. Western Districts
show was a particularly gallant effort,
and it was very difficult to believe that
the country from which it came had
been through one of the driest periods
in a generation. G. S. Trevitt, the
organiser, travelled over 12,000 miles in
building it, and he was fully justified in
calling it “the best show we have ever
staged.” Queensland’s Moreton and
Darling Downs display was notable for
its fruit. South Coast and Central Table-
land exhibits were both up to average
sample.
Pig sections attracted just over 400
entries, a little less than last year. There
is apparent the usual lack of standardisa-
tion of breed and type for export pur-
poses. Berkshires bulk largest. The
Large and Middle Whites show a fall -
ing off of nearly 100 since 1938 Show,
though all hope of successful overseas
traders based upon them. Another type
has been added —Wessex Saddlebacks.
The wool show is an innovation, but
useful. It can still do with a great deal
of development and some clarification of
method.
That applies to the whole Show. There
is a great deal to be done, for instance,
with pasture-improvement exhibits, and
some of the space devoted to pin-headed
Chinamen could be used to advantage
in that way.
Oats for Sheep.
“A.A.D.”: A few years ago a Narro-
mine (N’S.W.) farmer, W. Wright, pro-
duced a new variety of oats for grazing
in, the main wheat areas where fat-lamb
raising has its stronghold. Named Ideal,
it is a cross .between the wild or black
oat and Guyra, the latter one of J, T.
Pridham’s many useful crossbreds.
Here and there a farmer grew it before
the type was fixed, but generally reported
well of it. Only now, however, is it win-
ning universal recognition. Pridham has
been working on several selections from
Ideal, one of which now appears to be
fixed and equal to the standard variety,
Fulghum, in grain yield and superior to
it in fodder production.
Improved animal husbandry and in-
creased carrying of sheep on wheat-
farms has created a special demand for
oats capable of withstanding several
grazings before being allowed to produce
a crop of grain or hay. The newcomer
is early-maturing and fits the bill.
Why Fewer Pigs?
“Porcine”: What is wrong with the pig
industry? In the face of rising values
for baconers and porkers breeding has
declined.
N.S.W. pig numbers on farms dropped
from 391,000 in 1937 to 357,000 in 1939,
and all slaughterings from 614,000 to
537,000. The big Norco factory handled
59,598 baconers, as compared with 66,395
in the previous year, although the com-
pany’s output of butter meantime in-
creased 3J million pounds.
Is the dairymen’s attitude the same as
in Victoria, where the Dairy Products
Board, in recording a marked increase
in cheese-production, attributed the result
to “suppliers disposing of the whole milk
and thus avoiding the labor associated
with pig-raising”? Sydney regularly im-
ports large quantities of bacon and ham
from Queensland.
“Hog”: While pig-raising in N.S.W.
has shown a big falling-off, Maoriland
records a pig population increase of 175
p.c. since 1916, and pig products a 377
p.c. increase. The M.L. success is due
to higher breeding and better feeding and
fattening methods. The Dominion pins
its faith to the Large White, Middle White
and Berkshire breeds.
Too little attention seems to be devoted
in Australia to the menace of feeding
pigs on the bulk skim-milk of the
dairy. It has been proved that the milk
of one tubercular cow can infect a whole
herd of pigs. Pasteurisation of the whole
of the skim-milk fed to the pigs is the
sure way of obviating their rejection as


£y
*
-/
GIVE YOUR BOY ABBEY ORTHOPAEDICS.
Let his feet grow naturally and remain free from foot troubles which
cause so much pain and discomfort.
Growing feet need Orthopaedics to help them develop into happy,
healthy feet.
Made in Black or Brown Calf with strong welted soles and heels,
medium and wide fittings and in full and half sizes.
PRICES: 13 to I£, 21/-; 2 to 5, 23/6; 6, 25/-.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George St.,^ s 53 Castlereagh St., 224 Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.
Telegraphic address: “Abbey Boots Sydney.”
RIDE AT EASE IN A SAFER SADDLE
For Price and Quality Stockmen Prefer the “Genuine Kemp”
Narrow Grip.
ķ
The “Ring Head”
Bridle.
• Quality made with
stand-back throat which
prevents the bridle being-
rubbed off. Nickel or
brass buckles, nickel-plated
bradoon or snaffle bit.
As illustrated.
Jin., 13/6; Sin.. 14/0:
lin., 16/6.
Saddle
Pouches
Made from solid
Leather.
Strongly sewn.
7/6, 8/6, 9/6.
With Welted
Seams, 12/6.
Quart Pots
and
Covers.
Hand-sewn,
8/6.
Complete.
AVrite for Free
Illustrated Catalogue.
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
18 -20 WILSON ST NEW'TOWN
W. H WILLIAMS FOR SAFER SADDLES
See how it feels to
ride in a real modern
Saddle a master-
piece that features a
special Poley Knee-
pad that grips the thighs
splendidly, curving away
nicely at the top.
Extra Long Kip Flaps,
4in. dip in seat, and built
on a steel gullet tree.
Fitted with Best Leathers,
4-Bar Irons, Girth,
Surcingle.
PRICE, £6/157-
Freight Free in N.S.W.
THE
“KING”
STOCK-
WHIP
Hand - plaited
from Best Kan-
garoo. Thong
Bft. 8 - plait,
with plaited
handle to
match, 19/6.
Others from
10/6.
You will want \this new book.
“Practical Tanning for Amateurs”
Deals fullv with the curing, tanning, dyeing,
etc. of all kinds of skins, furs, wool mats, etc.,
the’ home manufacture of soap, harness-
and shoe-dressing, etc.
Sinmple-, Interesting, Practical.
4/6 from leading booksellers or post free from
UNIQUE SUPPLIES,
21 Bright Street, Marriclcville, Sydney.
yTuffy-allelz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
fROM FACTORY => l ufeHfs
Fresfi • Fragrant
TOBACCO
/KT NEW LOW PRICES/
Smokers !
Enjoy the World's Best
Empire-grown Tobaccos
These beautiful smoking blends give that extra
satisfaction and coolness which makes all the
difference. Made from the finest Empire-grown
leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Per lb.
First crop, mild . .
All British, mild
Riverhead Gold, medium
Old Peter, medium . .
Cavendish, strong . .
Beech Nut, medium . .
Africa, mellow and mild
Soldiers’ Own, mild
Normandie, medium
Winning Post, medium . .
Three Bells, strong . .
Bird’s Eye, medium
Latakia, in pipe only . .
White Lodge, medium .
White Lodge, light
Barlock Flake, light and dark
Cahills, medium
Union Leader, medium . .
Tender Leaf, medium . .
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only
6/9
6/9
6/9
6/9
6/9
7/3
7/3
7/3
7/9
8/-
8A
8/-
10/3
10/-
11/-
8/6
10/9
11/-
11/-
8/-
6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
‘Clinker,” mild ... • • 7/6
‘Skipper,” medium . . • • 7/6
‘Big Hit,” strong . • • • 7/6
‘Three Sailors” . - • • 7/6
‘Royal Navy Nuggets” . . • • 7/6
rish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/6
‘Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/6
‘P.M.” Dark Plug 7/-
Sig Zags •• •• 5 for 1/-
Postage Free in N.S.W. and Queensland,
fid. per pound extra to other States.
COMBINED GRO W ERg
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Ltd.
12 COMMERCIAL RD., VALLEY, BRISBANE.
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPRO YEP BY
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—. Any H“ndy'nan Can Inetal It Order "^Bank'of N.S.W., 15.
Require Emptying—Over 850 Sold—Shell Co., 60 Repeat Orders, x> ..
“1
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
The Hygeia Dissolvenator Fully Guaranteed
PRICE £l5/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
in
baconers owing to traces of t.b. when
they reach the abattoirs.
Not in Maoriland!
“Ek Dum”: While in Australia con-
sumers have been asked to pay another
£5 a ton for potatoes, the Maoriland
Agricultural Department has advised
farmers that there “appears to be no
alternate method of disposal for periodi-
cally surplus crops of potatoes except to
silo them for stock feed.” In Canter-
bury “potatoes could be obtained for
pig feeding by those who would take
the trouble to cart the tubers away.”
Potatoes make a good silage in mix-
ture with green crops. Stacks are made
with a foot of green silage well packed
as a first bed, then a ton of well cleaned
spuds spread evenly and, after that,
alternate layers of potatoes and greens
and potatoes.
One good type of silage from waste
potatoes is a favorite in U.S.A. A pit is
dug like the ordinary silage pit with slop-
ing sides —up to Bft. long and 3ft. deep.
The potatoes are pul through a root-
pulper and mixed with fermented maize-
meal ground a couple of days before-
hand, wetted to a paste and allowed to
become sour. About lcwt. meal per ton
of spuds is poured into a heap of potatoes
built in a ridge in the centre of the pit.
The remaining space round the sides of
the pit is packed with straw, and a straw
blanket goes over the whole. The job is
finished with a foot of soil.
It makes good cattle and pig feed —
when potatoes are cheap enough. Cer-
tainly a lot of waste tubers not fit for
sale could be handled this way and help
keep the piggery or the dairy going.
Mallee Pastures.
“Ginger”: Experimental work with
pasture plants in the Victorian Mallee is
to be extended at the Walpeup Research
Station. Plants include Wimmera rye-
grass, perennial veld grass, crested wheat
grass, lucerne and early strains of sub.
clover. Acclimatised strains and species
are to receive prior consideration.
Lucerne is restricted to those areas
where irrigation is possible or in seep-
age areas adjacent to channels.
A former manager of the station,
now Inspector of Agriculture, H. L.
Hore, says that to establish a pasture in
the Mallee the seed should be sown on
fallow land following autumn rains. A
cover crop is advisable because, despite
its competition for moisture and plant
food with the young pasture, it will
prevent drift sand which could easily
wipe out plants in their early stages of
growth.
The striking difference in the effect on
various districts of recent heavy rains
clearly shows that there is something
more than soil fertility to be considered.
Large tracts show little effect apart from
hardening of the soil by the rain, while
others germinated quite a good growth
of feed. The presence of suitable pas-
ture seed alone explains the contrast.
Cultures for Lucerne.
“A.A.D.”: The use of cultures of
nodule organisms—nitrogen-fixing bac-
teria—for seed-treatment is making it
possible to grow lucerne in soils of low
natural fertility.
The N.S.W. Agricultural Department
has distributed the cultures for several
years, and this year has met a record
demand.
The cultures have given best results on
areas of poorer soil types, such as are
to be found in some of the tableland dis-
tricts. and particularly where lucerne and
related plants like the medics, or ball
clovers, have not acted well in the past.
On areas in New England where at-
tempts to establish lucerne failed previ-
ously, inoculating the seed prior to
sowing and the use of sulphate of am-
monia to provide the plants with their
earliest nitrogen requirement are proving
successful.
Ringing and Water.
“Dicta”: The station lam on has two
lagoons around which all trees have been
rung. There is practically no grass be-
cause of dry seasons, yet the lagoons are
permanent. Before ringing they would
not last more than a few weeks at most.
Over years these holes have gradually
enlarged, owing, we think, to the action
of the cattle in bringing mud from the
bottom on their hooves as they come out
from drinking.
Do the advocates of treed banks give
any thought to the amount of water the
trees must take? Remember, too, that
grass won’t grow with thick timber
because the trees take first call on the
nourishment
Hints for the Farm.
“Mt. Boppy”: Cultivate the land for
swede turnips thoroughly, to destroy
weed seedlings and to bring it to a fine
tilth. On tablelands and in cold dis-
tricts, get the seed in before winter, but
on the coast swedes can be sown until
June. Early planting is best, as late-
sown turnips are usually small. Make
sure that the soil, before sowing, is moist
enough to ensure good germination.
Broadcast super. —scwt. an acre. Seed
can be sown through the fertiliser
attachment on the drill at the rate of
lOoz. an acre when the soil is fine and
moist. Sow up to lib. an acre if con-
ditions are not quite so good. Drilling is
better than broadcasting. If the crop is
too thick, run a heavy harrow over the
paddock to thin out the seedlings.
“Mulyan”: For horse paddocks in
eastern districts I favor the Australian
couch grass. Horses like a low grass,
and where the couch grows they con-
centrate on it, eating it to the ground.
It is a hardy, densely-growing perennial,
soft, sweet and nutritious. Though creep-
ing, it will grow to 2ft. high when not
grazed, and may be cut two or three
times a year for hay. In paddocks it
is kept low, the sward resembling a
green lawn. For that reason, it is the
safest grass around homesteads. Its
numerous deep roots make it also an
excellent soil-binder for sloping ground
and on loose sand. It should not be
allowed on cultivated land, as it is dif-
ficult to get rid of once it becomes
established. It grows from roots, stems
or seeds.
“Bull-ant Bill”: I hesitate to suggest
even one small addition to the vast mass
of Acts, regulations, by-laws, ordinances,
proclamations and the rest which our
seven Parliaments turn out so assiduously,
but this one would earn the appreciation
of many stockowners. It is merely that
garage proprietors be required, under
penalty, to report to the police the num-
ber of any car which is towed in for
repair at the end of a length of fencing
wire, or which shows recent emergency
repairs with the same material. Along
main roads particularly, it is not at all
uncommon to find two or more strands
of wire cut from a fence, with the tracks
of a stalled or towed car near by.
“Willeroo”: Dog ticks are fetching 3d.
each, plus forwarding costs, at the Com-
monwealth Serum Laboratories in Mel-
bourne. Living female specimens are re-
quired for the production of anti-tick
serum.
“J. Want”: Thorough lot, these Ger-
mans. “Der Ernahrung der Pflanze,” a
fertiliser monthly just arrived, remarks
that the original Reich, with an arable
area of 63,000,000 acres, needs about
125,000,000,000 cubic metres of water
per annum delivered in the right places
and times to produce satisfactory crops,
and a population of 68,000,000 needs
only 8,000,000;000 cubic metres to keep
it alive and moving. About 25,000,000
German acres are reckoned to need irri-
gation. It is pointed out that overhead
irrigation systems are in a ratio of effi-
ciency to natural rainfall of 1 : 2.
“Gosford”: The discovery of an effec-
tive spray mixture —1 fluid ounce nico-
tine sulphate, Boz. white oil emulsion and
sgal. water —for the control of bean-fly
by W. L. Morgan, Sydney entomologist,
doubles the length of the season for
growing the crop. It is applied when the
plants are up two to three days, followed
at intervals of four days. The cost is £2
to £4 an acre. Growers in the coastal
districts can now produce crops for mar-
keting in late summer and early winter.
“Mulga”: There have been protests
recently in regard to the official apathy
about the spread of mistletoe. In recent
years the damage done by the parasite to
edible and other classes of trees through-
out N.S.W. has increased alarmingly.
Systematic research has now been under-
taken by the Government Botanist (R. H.
Anderson), Professor Ashley, of Sydney
University, and Miss May, who was
appointed to a science research scholar-
ship to carry out this project,
“Canbelego”: N. Bruce, of Merima,
Bombala (N.S.W.), is developing a strain
of polled merinos. A hornless ram was
dropped by a pure-bred merino ewe, the
sire being a registered horned ram. The
polled ram was mated with 24 ewes last
season, progeny being five polled rams,
two rams with very small horns and 17
ewe lambs. Bruce is continuing the ex-
periment to fix the strain.
“Sheepo”: The Mules operation (B
22/3/’39) has undoubtedly proved its
efficacy in minimising crutch strike, but
danger exists of unsuspecting buyers
taking “treated” ewes in the belief they
were bred without wrinkles. No opera-
tion will oust what’s in the blood. Buyers
of all Mules-treated flock ewes should be
protected, and a register established giv-
ing details of all sheep operated upon.
The compulsory use of a special earmark
would help.


w
~ mMStL
sg;
Hf
rZ-yZ
t*‘
hit
M
->jr-";
v."
r
-fife
/
500B0W?
SS/iM
*£§&c<
%SSs
rWAVI
"’ ■».,
WWMMM'****
s*
2139
\NN.m\
4V
U«IV
7^
SM
-V.'j
Hi
T*fc
S^UU
Ma
a
iW
£
#<!
gg
«Sss
2ju»-
gWWisS?
M-Mm
HU
w
//
ams
mVWxi
BBP& *s3B \
illm tme«^M :
?ss
■.'■ • SB f*#
i
/;
BiAtW(9 #::
J|t ' TOOHEYS &j^T#'i
SrjL v <7 V>*VJ
Manual Testing of Oats
for OATMEAL STOUT
The wholesome glory of the sun-
ripened Oats is concentrated into
each health-bringing glass of
OATMEAL STOUT,
TOOHEYS
OATMEAL
STOUT
Here’s To’ee
TOOHEYS, LTD., STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VlCTORlA—Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd., Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL Q’LAND: Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—DaIgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—MiIne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA—Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Launceston.


k
WILCOX; SMITH & CO
Postagi Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street;
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Buying and
Selling List Pree.
Established 49 years.
, Hankers; The Union
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. H. Hart, > ‘ yan ’ sq ' ’
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
rjwvpfi Manager—D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbonrnc, Md 143
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New Sout , < World
PAINFUL CORNS.
,r *s,n,r'&r s » s&g
or loft, A’CORN SILK will
Gcl^ Packed^by*FKLTON, C GRIiIWADE ft i)UER^^,
LTD., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks typing work, used to handling authors’
manuscripts, neat and accurate. —3000.
Practical-minded Melbourne salesman (26),
used to hardware and food trades, educated,
executive ability, wants offer from inter-State
firm desiring representation or offering mana-
gerial position. Four years present position.
—3013.
Position wanted anywhere by returned
Imperial soldier. Mechanical engineer, thorough
knowledge all types engines, steam and internal
combustion, also machinery and motors. Handy
with all tools on wood or ir0n. —2999.
Young man (W.A.), wide knowledge
recorded music, exp. editorial and freelance
journalism, continuity and annotation work,
etc., wants position broadcasting station. —2966.
Ex-army sister (S.A.) wishes to spend a few
winter months in Alice Springs, or near, on
station preferred. Services, light, for board,
or a room in some northern (S.A.) town. Will
pay fare. —2979.
To buy second-hand school map of the
world. —2955.
To buy Scapegoats of the Empire, by Whit-
ton, Frenzied Finance, by Thomas Lawson, and
Fair Girls and Grey Horses, by Ogilvie.—29B3.
To buy The Arts of Mankind, by Dr. Van
Loon. —2938.
Words of poem containing the lines:
May all be mellowed —the fruit of age—
Mav all be right on the final page.
—2983.
Information Sought.
Ten largest towns in N. S. Wales outside of
Sydney and Newcastle, and their populations.
—2924.
The estimated populations as at December 31,
1937, of the ten largest municipalities in New
South Wales outside of Sydney and Newcastle
are as follows : Broken Hill, 27,800 ; Goulburn,
15,300; Cessnock, 14,500; Wollongong, 13,450;
Litngow, 13,430; Lismore, 12,870; Maitland,
East and West, 12,640; Wagga Wagga, 12,530;
Albury, 11,250; and Bathurst, 10,980.
* * # *
How are “irrevocable,” “irrelevant” and
“capitalism” pronounced ? The latter has been
accented on the “it" frequently by a professor
during broadcast talks, and the accenting of
“rev” has led to some discussion by Scottish
visitors here. —296l.
Webster, 1874, Shorter Oxford, 1933, and
Webster, 1937, are agreed on irrelevant and
irrevocable. Webster, 1874, hadn’t heard of
capitalism, but put forward capitalist. Shorter
Oxford agrees with capitalism. Webster, 1937,
fayors capitalism, but says there is also a British
pronunciation, capitalism.
* ♦ * *
I have heard it argued that the spelling “fore-
bears,” meaning ancestors, is incorrect English,
and that the right form is “forbears.” /
notice, however, that The Bulletin uses the
former spelling. Why? —294o.
Both spellings are correct. Nowadays the
“for” version appears to be becoming more
prevalent, but this paper agrees with Fowler’s
Dictionary of Modern English Usage that the
“fore” seems better both as separating the
noun from the verb “forbear” and as not
disguising the derivation (forebeers, those who
have been before). Incidentally, Webster gives
preference to the “e” spelling.
* * *
How to plot a bearing taken with a prismatic
compass on to a map by means of a pro-
tractor ? —2985.
Convert the compass bearing into a true
bearing by adding nine degrees to the compass
bearing. (This angle varies somewhat in dif-
ferent parts of N.S.W.) Plot the resultant angle
by placing the protractor on the map with its
zero edge pointing true north-south and with
the arrowhead over the point on the map
corresponding to your position on the ground.
Mark off the angle with a sharp pencil and
draw a line running through this mark and
through the point corresponding to your posi-
tion. If the angle is less than 180 degrees the
zero edge must be to the left of the protractor;
if over 180 degrees it must be to the right.
* * * *
What is the geological theory as to the deposit
of the “Welcome Stranger” nugget just under
the surface at Moliagul, Victoria? —2920.
Large nuggets as well as smaller pieces of
gold have their origin in quartz veins. In
parts of Victoria, as Moliagul and Ballarat,
the association of indicators with large gold
masses in quartz reefs is known. An indicator
itself does not contain gold, but along its
intersection with certain quartz veins enrich-
ment often occurs. At times these amount to
lumps of gold weighing hundreds of ounces.
Such masses, when the adjacent rocks are
denuded, would form nuggets in the alluvial
deposits.
* * * *
(1) Formula of calamine lotion ? (2) Formula
of white lotion used in reducing thickened
skin caused by acne? —2889.
(1) Calamine 20gr., zinc oxide 15gr., added to
an emulsion of liquid paraffin and solution of
calcium hydroxide to make up one ounce. (2)
Prepared by digesting lead monoxide in an
aqueous solution of lead acetate. This con-
centrated solution is then diluted by the addi-
tion of one part to 79 parts of water. Chemical
knowledge necessary to prepare either of these
solutions.
* * * *
(1) Cause of superfluous hair? (2) Method
or methods of removing ? —2724.
(1) In persons so afflicted, hair follicles are
more numerous than in ordinary people. (2)
The methods of removal are by electrolysis, by
X-rays, by depilatory agents (most of which
contain the sulphides of barium or calcium)
or by purely mechanical means (the safety
razor or pumice stone). In a case in which
the affliction is widespread, a skin specialist
should be consulted. Some of the chemical
depilatories may be irritating to the skin, and
should not be used except under medical
supervision.
* * * *
(1) What is quininism? (2) Symptoms? (3)
Cure ?— 2836.
(1) Quininism, more commonly called cin-
chonism, is the name applied to the morbid
or injurious effects produced by the injudicious
use of cinchona bark or its alkaloids, quinine,
quinidine, cinchonine and cinchonidine. (2)
Headache, ringing in the ears, deafness, vomit-
ing and other signs of cerebral congestion. (3)
Stop taking the drug.
' * * * *
Use of acridine in the treatment of malaria ?
—2794.
A synthetically prepared acridine compound
has been introduced for the treatment of sub-
tertian forms of malaria under the name of
atebrin, Its special advantages are said to be
that in comparison with quinine the duration
of treatment is much shorter, and that the
relapse rate is considerably lower than after
a course of quinine. Although some few
patients have been stated to tolerate the drug
badly, it is reported as being of special import-
ance in cases of quinine idiosyncrasy and in
blackwater fever. To-day, with the synthetic
remedies atebrin and plasmoquin, it is possible
to cure every form of human malaria.
* * * *
(1) Is salicylic acid advisable for a person
suffering from arthritis? (2) If so, how big a
dose?— 2B34.
(1) Sodium salicylate is in common use for
the treatment of certain forms of arthritis, par-
ticularly those associated with rheumatic fever.
(2) From 10 to 30 grains every four hours.
* * * *
Particulars of prize essay competitions open
to N.S.W. school-children being conducted by
the Fellowship of Australian Writers? —2949.
(1) For children 14 years and under, essay
(maximum length 1000 words) on a book or
collection of poems by a contemporary Aus-
tralian writer. Prize, £1 11s. 6d., (o be spent
on Australian books. (2) For children over
14- years, essay (maximum length 2000 words)
on the work of any contemporary Australian
novelist, poet or essayist. Prize, £2 25., to be
spent on Australian books. (3) Closing date,
July 31, 1939. Results will be announced
through the press about September 18. Con-
tributions should be addressed to the secretary,
Fellowship of Australian Writers, Box 3448 R,
G.P.0., Sydney. Envelopes must be endorsed
in the top left-hand corner “Essay Competi-
tion, Senior,” or “Essay Competition, Junior.”
Each contribution must be certified by the head
teacher as the candidate’s own work.
* * * *
A few details concerning the following water-
color painters: (1) Charles Mathews, (2) Albert
Goodwin and (3) William Longstaff ? —2879.
(1) Charles Mathews was an actor, but also
he painted and specialised in landscape, and
was an exhibitor at the Royal Academy. (2)
Albert Goodwin was a well-known artist, a
member of the Royal Water-color Society, and
exhibited more than 35 pictures at the Royal
Academy. He did a great deal of work in
both oil and water-color, and first exhibited
in 1860. His last work was shown in 1893.
(3) Will Longstaff is an Australian, cousin to
knight John Longstaff. He has lived in Eng-
land for a number of years. He painted
several war pictures.
* * * *
(1) Was it Johnny Summers who came to
Australia as a lightweight about 30 years ago,
and just managed to make the middleweight
limit (11.6) when he met and defeated Hughie
Mehegan ? (2) How many times did Summers
and Harry Stone meet each other, and did Stone
defeat Summers in every contest? —2765.
(1) The overseas boxer imported late in 1910,
and who scored a five-round technical k.o. win
over Mehegan, was American “Cyclone Johnny”
Thompson, not Summers. (2) Stone and Sum-
mers met three times —in Brisbane on May 17,
1913, in Sydney on November 8, 1913, and
in London on June 20, 1914. Stone won the
two Australian contests on points, but the
London one was declared a draw.
* J * * *
(1) Is Joe Wallis (Sydney) the world’s oldest
referee ? How long has he been refereeing
contests, and how many of them has he
officiated at? —2923.
(1) No. He’s only 48, and many referees in
the U.S.A. and Britain are much older.
(2) Wallis refereed his first contest at Newtown
(Sydney) Olympia in 1914, and estimates that
he has been third man in the ring on approxi-
mately 28,000 occasions since then.
Results of the Sydney Thousand cycle race in
1903, 1904 and 1905 ?— 2653.
1903: N. C. Hopper, U.S.A. (75yds.), 1; D.
Walker, Vic. (scratch), 2; H. Thorn, Vic.
(80yds.), 3; time, lmin. 53sec. 1904: A. E.
O’Brien, N.S.W. (180yds.), 1; Major Taylor,
U.S.A. (scr.), 2; time, lmin. 54sec. 1905: W.
T. J. Lear, Vic. (140yds.), 1; G. H. Horder,
N.S.W. (90yds.), 2; T. Ellegaard, Denmark
(scr.), 3; time, lmin. 54 l-ssec. In 1904 Corbett
(120yds.) finished first, A. O’Brien (180yds.)
second and D. J. Plunkett (120yds.) third.
O’Brien protested against Corbett, Plunkett and
others for collusion, and Corbett and Plunkett
were disqualified for the race. O’Brien was
awarded the first prize of £750, and Major
Taylor, who finished in fourth place, was
awarded the second prize.
* * * v
(1) What are the international Test matches
listed for the 1939-40 Australian Rugby Union
team in Great Britain ? (2) What further
fixtures are proposed during the next 10 years ?
—2662.
(1) Against Scotland on November 25, v.
Ireland on December 9, v. Wales on Decem-
ber 23, and v. England on January 6. (2)
Great Britain to Australia in 1942, Australian
team to South Africa in 1945, South Africa to
Australia in 1948.
* * * *
Can I get the barrel of an old Francotte
military cadet rifle reblocked to take modern
high-speed .22 cartridges, and what type of .22
ammunition should I use to get the same dis-
tance and killing-power as the Francotte am-
munition ? Cost of having the barrel reblocked
and if reblocking is generally successful ? — 2119.
If the rifle is of British manufacture it could
be converted to take the .22 Hornet cartridge at
a cost of approximately £3. A Francotte rifle
of European manufacture would not withstand
modern high velocity ammunition. Any gun-
smith could make the conversion.
* # * *
Recipe of a meringue called Pavlova. —2318.
The meringue is made in the usual manner
and baked in a rather small sandwich tin, about
seven inches in diameter, more if liked. When
cooked, tip it out face downwards, scoop out
a little in the centre, and fill with any of the
following mixtures: Fruit salad (either tinned
or made from any available fresh fruits), stewed
fruit (with most of the juice drained off), fresh
or tinned raspberries or strawberries, fresh
blackberries or small pieces of cake and jelly
mixed. Cover the whole with whipped cream
piled roughly or piped on, and serve.
* * * *
Is there a British engineering standard
specification covering llQkv. rotary air-
break switches? If so, where can a copy be
obtained? —2701.
There are three British standard specifi-
cations for air-break switches, but these apply
only to voltages not exceeding 660, namely:
No. 109, “Air-Break Knife Switches and
Isolating Switches”; No. 124, “Totally En-
closed Air-Break Switches”; and No. 126,
“Flame-Proof Air-Break Switches.” It
seems unlikely that air-break switches could
be used in a llOkv. circuit. The oil switches
generally used for high voltages are covered
in British Standard No. 116, “Oil Circuit-
Breakers, Oil Switches and Oil Isolating
Switches for Alternating Current Circuits.”
Any of these specifications and a complete list
of British Standard Specifications are
obtainable in Melbourne from the Standards
Association of Australia, Temple Court, 422
Collins-strcet.
* * * *
(1) Recipe for honey and almond lotion?
(2) For liquid hair shampoo? (3) For a foam
bath ?— 2486.
(1) (Lanolin, 30 grammes; oil of sweet
almonds, 10 grammes; borax, 1 gramme;
honey, 5 grammes; glycerine, 10 grammes;
hydrogen peroxide, 15 grammes. Mix the
lanolin and oil, then incorporate the borax,
previously dissolved in the mixture of
glycerine and peroxide solution. (2) Olive
oil, 20 parts; caustic potash, 9$ parts;
alcohol, 5 parts; water, 30 parts. Warm the
oil in a water bath, then the potash and
water in another vessel, heating both to
158 deg. Fahr., and add the latter solution
to the hot oil, stirring briskly. Now add
and thoroughly mix the alcohol. Stop
stirring, and keep at 158 deg. until the mass
becomes clear and a small quantity dissolves
in boiling water without globules of oil
separating. Set aside for a few days in a
warm place before using to make a liquid
shampoo thus: 24 parts of the foregoing oil
mixture, 5 parts potassium carbonate, alcohol
48 parts and water enough to make 400 parts.
(3) Composition is a trade secret. Basis is
usually something like 25 parts white, hard
soap, 15 parts glycerine and 1000 parts water.
* * * *
Recipe for gum paste for cake decorating?
—2755.
Mix ilb. ground almonds with jjlb. icing
sugar; add enough well-beaten white of egg
to make a stiff paste; add a few drops of
essence of almonds and a half-teaspoon of
sherry if available. Place the basin in which
it is being mixed in a larger basin of boiling
water, or over a quiet closed fire, and stir until
the paste is warm and stiff enough to roll out
like dough. Dust a board with icing sugar,
turn out the paste and roll to the required
thickness.
* * * *
Preparation used to obtain gloss on starched
collars ? —2838.
A glazing mixture is applied with a cloth
just before ironing ; good glazes ready for
use may be purchased from some of. the larger
stores, or may be made thus: Assemble 4oz.
white starch, borax, loz. white soap, 1
dessertspoon glycerine, 1 dessertspoon turpen-
tine and 1 teaspoon common salt. Dissolve the
soap and borax in one pint of hot water, mix
all together and add i pint more hot water.
Mix well and keep in a covered jar; will keep
for months. To use, stir if sediment has
formed, dip a flannel in the glaze and rub
sparingly on the cold-starched collar; polish
with a rather hot iron, going to and fro until
the color is dry and shining.
A satisfactory treatment for preserving hard-
wood verandah floors —ironbark and crow’s
ash ?— 2807.
For new wood, brush on a coating of equal
parts turpentine and raw linseed oil; allow to
dry thoroughly, and then brush on pure raw
lmseed oil, as much as the wood will absorb.
Leave for a week before walking on it, and if
it appears at all dry put on another coating.
Occasional dressings of the oil will assist pres-
ervation, but if much exposed to weather
slight damage may appear during the course
of years. Ordinary house paint is useful for
a band of protective coloring along the outer
edge, painted to a depth of from six to twelve
inches inwards; the greatest damage occurs on
the sawn ends of the timber facing the weather.
Brief Answers.
J. V.Y.: This is the method where power-
polishing is not available: Dip a finger in
linseed oil and smear it sparingly over the
surface of the shell, then rub with the palm
of the hand until all the oil has disappeared
and the shell feels hot and looks bright.
Finish with a silk cloth. It this does not
give sufficient lustre, send the brush to a
jeweller, who will apply mechanical polishers.
. ...C.J.C.: Write N.S.W. Agricultural Dept.,
Sydney, for leaflet “Pickling Walnuts, Olives,
Cherries and Plums” 8.E.M.: Rate of com-
mission is fixed by the Court in each case.
In the absence of unusual circumstances
usually 1 p.c. on capital and 2\ p.c. on in-
come... .E.W.O’D.: If a public body inter-
feres with the natural drainage of land so as to
flood private land with water which would
otherwise drain away, it is probably liable to
pay compensation and also to restore the land
to its old conditions. Consult a solicitor
M.T. : No trees are being planted on the foot-
path in Wunda-road, Mosman, Sydney, opposite
Nos. 20-30. On the opposite side of the road,
however, five Tristinia conferta were planted
about six months ago J.R.: On a very close
approximation three one-hundredths of a
millimetre equals .001179 in., and five one-
hundredths of a millimetre equals .001965 in.
The standard for conversion is: one metre
equals 39.9370113 in M.J.S.: The Strachans
are not a clan, but belong to the clan
Gordon and are thus entitled to wear the
Gordon tartan RJ.: (1) Yes, if he hit the
wicket in making or completing the stroke.
(2) A matter of fact for the umpire to de-
cide. To be out he must hit the wicket in
making or completing the stroke A.K.:
An appreciation of the writings of Arthur H.
Adams was printed on the Red Page,
Bulletin, March 25, 1936 A.A.: (1) The
capital mentioned is too small to enable a
person to take up cane-farming. (2) No figures
available. (3) Inquiries would have to be made
in the various sugar districts. (4) Sales or
leases of cane farms cannot be effected unless
the Queensland Central Sugar Cane Prices
Board approves of the price, terms and con-
ditions of sale or lease as being fair and
reasonable C.L.M.C.: Write Under-Secre-
tary, Dept, of the Interior, Canberra, A.C.T.
....A.C.8.: Write Live Stock Division, Agri-
cultural Dept., Melbourne, for copy of
pamphlet “The Sheep Industry,” price Bd.
posted... .J.P.: The four-masted ships owned
by Capt. Erickson of Finland which load
grain in S.A. for Europe carry some
apprentices. They are almost entirely young
men from Finland. Erickson’s agents in
Adelaide might be asked if they would take
an Australian boy and what the cost would
be... .D.W.L.: The constituents in milk vary,
but the average chemical composition is some-
what as follows: Water 87.1 p.c., fat 3.9 p.c.,
casein 2.5 p.c., albumin .7 p.c., sugar 5.1 p.c.
and ash .7 p.c. Cream is usually defined as
“that portion of milk in which either through
rest or mechanical separation the greater part
of the milk-fat has become concentrated.”
In a cream containing 35 p.c. of butterfat
the balance would be made up of the other
constituents, plus any thickening matter....
F.A.: See Infra-red Photography, by Rawlings
(ss. 3d.) 8.A.: On the evidence submitted
do not think man could succeed in claim for
wages to end of month dr in lieu of notice.
In absence of agreement do not think he could
succeed in claim for other expenses, either
M.A.: You are invited to call upon the Director
of Agriculture, Sydney. It will be necessary
to make an appointment E.F.G.: Work on
the memorial began on August 10, 1927.
Gutzon Borglum designed the memorial and
is directing its erection. Further information
could be obtained from him at Stamford, Con-
necticut, U.S.A Z. 8.: (1) No information
available locally regarding the manufacture of
avocado oil. The U.S.A. Department of Agri-
culture might be able to assist as the oil is
sold in large quantities in that country. (2)
Tropical Planting and Gardening, by H. F.
Macmillan, obtainable ffom Macmillan, St.
Martin’s-street, London, or Manual of Tropical
and Sub-tropical Fruits, by Popenoe, also
obtainable from Macmillan J_A.B.: There
are no treatment works in Australia for schee-
lite. Ore buyers such as O. T. Lempnere and
Co. and Frank Hambridge, both of Sydney,
would be interested. Send them particulars ot
grade and quantity you can deliver and they
will quote you their tariff.. .-G.A.H.:: Will
Andrade, 17 J Pitt-street, Sydney... .H.M. •
Write G. A. Lloyd, representative, Morris In-
dustries Exports, Ltd., 14 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney.... J.P.: The relative humidity in
Sydney ranges from 100 p.c. to 4 p.c. Th
former, which has occurred on a number ot
occasions, is usually recorded in the winter
months during rain or fog. The latter occurred
on January 14, 1939, during the record Sydney
temperature of 113.6 deg. Fahr. .• 'rnrnmis-
Write Secretary, Western Pacific High Commis
sion, Suva, Fiji.... J.A.W.: Spencer s
Precious Stones (7s. 6d.)... -A. . • .
Genealogical Society of Australm, Phdhp-stree ,
Svdnev ..A.F.G.: Article ‘The DebunKing
of Errol Flynn,” by Frank CJutie,
The Bulletin of April 13, 193 ° •• • :
Populations of the North Queensiand owns
you refer to as at 1933 census were Mareeba,
2470- Tolga, 346; Atherton, 1555
Millaa, 560 ; Malanda, 479; Ra . v 9 ens jjj £
Herberton, 869; Yungaburra, 459, and £>i
bulah, 469.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
SLIDE RULE COURSE
for business and
professional men
Modern executives
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
s u r e quicker,
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering and
other problems . . . multiplication, division, propor-
tions, square and cube roots. Our simple course
enables you to master the use of the slide rule quickly
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write for details to Kingsford Smith Colleges. Deni.
14, 255 a Oeorge Street, Sydney.
BRAN DAL ERS
m
rPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
C. BRANDAUKR * CO. Ltd. BIHJI INGHAM, ENG
“AWATEA"
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
k
To clean
FALSE TEETH
Dentists now RECOMMEND this method
Dentists everywhere are recommending
‘Steradent’ to their patients as the most
modern, scientific way to clean false teeth.
Read these typical reports from
two dentists after subjecting
'Steradent' to severe clinical
tests: —
• “I really think in all my experience that
‘Steradent’ is the finest product 1 have
used.”
• "I feel at last that the Dental Profession
has obtained the ideal denture cleaning
agent.”
‘Steradent’ harmlessly removes unsightly,
insanitary stains on false teeth, plates and
bridges. And the ‘Steradent’ method is so
simple. Just fill the cap of the tin with
‘Steradent’ and pour the powder into a glass
containing sufficient warm water (not hot)
to cover the dentures. Stir well. Leave your
false teeth in it while you dress or over-
night. Take them out and rinse thoroughly
under the tap. Every stain disappears.
Plates regain their wholesome colour.
Dingy, discoloured teeth become beautifully
clean, lustrous and natural-looking. Your
plates feel so cool and fresh and comfortable.
Every tiny crevice is cleaned, purified,
sterilized. ‘Steradent’ is so much more
thorough and efficient, and is guaranteed
harmless.
‘Steradent’ is sold by all chemists. Price 2/-.
Double size 3/6.
IMPORTANT!
Be sure you get 'Steradent'. Dentists
recommend it.
I Empty one capful of
‘Steradent’ into a tumbler
containing enough warm
water (not hot) to cover
the dentures. Stir briskly.
Place your stained false
teeth in the ‘Steradent’
solution. Leave them in
while you dress or over-
night.
Take them out and rinse
thoroughly. All stains and
film have vanished. Your
dentures are as clean as
new.
ķ
CLEANS
RECKITTS
AND STERILIZES FALSE TEETH
(OVER SEA) LTD. (Pharmaceutical Dept.), SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
A.G.: Well out of range... .L.E.R.: An in-
nocuous batch... .P.S.: You mean “rends the
air”; it’s not for hire....J.R.H.: “Up she
swoops,” and off she goes D.C.H.: The car
isn’t the only mangled wreck S.W.: Try
a par. about the nicknames J.A.P.: What’s
all that about? G.G.F.: Handwriting is
still its chief attraction... .H. 8.: As you
suggest, horses might laugh at it....M.5.: Try
a women’s paper... .H.J.O’D.: Idea fair,
verse weak M.H.: Most people ha*e a tele-
phone directory F.S.: Try the children’s
page of a daily M.T.W.: The notion’s
there... .H.A.: “A Thought” is just that
M.L. : Too chirpy W.L.: You don’t
imagine that’s an original plot, do you?
C.R.B.: Too many tags and echoes
F.R.G.: Sad... .F.J.8.: Very nearly....
JJ.W.: A featherweight J. 8.: “Cave
Dwellers” should be tougher than that....
W.V.W.: Merely a weather report... .5.8.:
"What time” you use that vocabulary you’ll
keep on ruining good material... .C.R.A.:
Needs condensing G.F.P.: Not a smile
L.T.0.: “Poor Johnny!” is right... .W.H.C.:
Don’t want that (or any other) collection of
poor puns... .S.M.G.: Thin as the Easter egg.
.. .. J.M.S.: Pretty, pretty... .Z.V.W.: Slight.
. ...H.W.: Not up D. 8.: An old 0ne....
J.1.E.: No use for that sort of humor....
E.F.: Nearly... .W.P.M.: N 0.... J.C.S'.: Not
interested in “The listless disinterest of rich
men drinking and idling the time away”
N.W.: It was ignored... .1.5. Y.: Never....
G.C.: Chased “A Wife for the Devil” off the
premises A. 8.: Keep trying F.C.: Not
here. . . .P.McM.: We read the same thing half
a dozen times every month G.K.D.: Sleuth
and his bloodhounds beating the homeward
track... .H.C.P.: It’s time you climbed out
of that rut... .H.T.S.: Bolted for cover after
the sixteenth murder T.N.D.: Turned a fire-
stinguisher on the lass with “smouldering
yes. flaming hair and fiery personality”....
A.R.F.: “Blah!” Correct... .G.R.M.: “I
write purely for the love of writing.” Seems
to be a case of misplaced affection....
R.8.W.: Six thousand wasted words
W.A.8.: Might make a par F.R.E.:
Nothing in any of them... .8.5. C.: Submit it
to a technical publication... .E.W.8.: Publican
who drank his profits will not make any for
you... .L.S.W.: Rewrite at half that length
and try again... .V.D.L.: Not even a titter.
B.D.: Religious editor considering “The
Dangers of Going to Church” K.D.L.:
“Autumn Interlude” a wintry intrusion
M.F.C.: “Bait” stale... .H.D.8.: Still trying
to fathom who was the murderer and who
was his victim... .N.R.P.: A chuckle in spots,
but it’s much too 10ng... .F.S.P.: Is that all
you can say in 5000 words?... .T.W.C.: Call
for the body... .D.N.E.: Reprimanded Gracie
and paid her fare home... .C.F.C.: Only thing
you forgot was the villain’s long, black
moustache 8.G.T.: “If only you knew the
tortures of a writer.” We do; they’ve in-
flicted some corkers on us D.E.R.: This
year, next year, sometime .... J.L.H.:
Doubt if you’ll find a local market for that
material R.E.C.: The sketch is the best of
them F.D.P : Doesn’t hit hard enough
L.R.A.: And that misses altogether
8.R.Y.: It’s been done a thousand times....
K.V.: Interest too 10ca1... .8.R.8.: You’re
wasting your time and ours, too.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.W.: A smudged batch of misfits....
G. 8.: Looks as if you packed a chaff-bag with
bottles and used it for a model P. 8.: The
lads are as stiff and splintery as the palings in
the background... .H.M.: No hope for micro-
scopic pencil sketch, nor for antiquated gag....
A. : Leave aeroplanes to artists who can
draw them T.R.J.: Long-winded gag reads
like a stray from some mid-Victorian women’s
paper J.C.: What’s the idea sending in a
Santa Claus joke at Easter time? P.P.:
You’re on the right track, but you still can’t
last the distance A.L.: Didn’t mind the
streamlined car, but couldn’t stand the stream-
lind father and his streamlined youngster
G.R.: Not bad in its rough-and-ready way,
but it falls short of our standard... .K.D.:
Drawing didn’t blaze a track to the process-
engraver’s camera... .R.F.: Foreign Legion
sketch among this week’s heaviest and
dreariest C.W.: It failed to make a rainy
day less cheerless N.M.: Passed the horse-
man’s spurs but not the horseman J.F.8.:
Hate to imagine what it would look like re-
produced H.S.: We seem to have seen that
fellow diving from the top of the cliff before.
... .5.8.: No good turning in sketches done in
indelible pencil on writing-pad paper....
B. “Destroy if not wanted.” Done
A.A.: Uncle Sam is now conducting his strip-
tease act in the privacy of the w.p.b
R.L.: Iron Cross and swastika drawing more
like a geometrical problem than a cartoon
D.M.: Beach beauties are shapely enough,
but they’re somewhat lifeless and dull-witted.
P.R.: You may know what a boiler-room
looks like, but you know very little about
sketching T.L.D.: A brave attempt, but it
didn’t come off... .J.E.S.: You don’t improve
with the years, do you? .... J.R.: You might
do better in the wrecking business R.M.T.:
Send “Man Who Bit a Shark” drawing to the
Shark Menace Advisory Committee.
A MIXED GRILL.
“F.S.”: The resignation of knight
James Barrett from the Chancellorship
of Melbourne University has not lost the
veteran the record for sitting on com-
mittees. He is still member of 28, presi-
dent of 11, vice-president of two and
chairman of seven, and he has added a
fellowship of the Royal Australasian
College of Surgeons.
* * * *
In an over-the-Bridge Sydney suburb
Mr. Hitler seems to be one up in popu-
larity over Mr. Mussolini. Some young
artist drew on a fence—not badly—the
heads of the dictators. Beneath the heads
a very young Australian hand scrawled
“Pooh to you!” Then somebody rubbed
out Mr. Hitler’s head, leaving Mr. Mus-
solini alone to brood above the defiance.
* * * *
“Hacksaw”: In Melbourne at present
commercial art is all the rage. Three-
fourths of the students at the National
Gallery consciously or unconsciously drift
into it, and classes are turning out hun-
dreds of graduates from technical schools
and colleges. The supply has no relation
whatever to the demand. There are three
topnotchers in commercial art in Mel-
bourne. One makes up to £5OOO a year.
The other two are also five-figure men.
About 50 more earn a fair income, and
approximately 100 may make the basic
wage. For the rest it is a struggle to
make enough to keep ’em alive.
“Pitt-street”: Deaths of an American
bad man, one Earl Durand, as reported
in Sydney newspapers:
“Truth”: “A bank clerk was shot in a
gun battle with Durand; but the boy
raised himself on his elbows and shot
Durand dead as he was leaving the bank.”
“Sunday Sun”: “With two guns blazing,
he [Durand] rushed into the bank and
demanded all the cash, when hidden sharp-
shooters riddled him with bullets.”
“S.M.H.”: “A bank clerk was killed in
the shooting which followed, but a boy,
who was crouched in the street, shot
Durand as he emerged from the building.”
“Daily Telegraph”: “Making good his
threat never to be taken alive, Durand shot
himself through the head with his own
revolver.”
You pays your money and you takes your
choice.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Homburg, M.L.C. of S.A.,
in a witty address to the Treeplanting
Association, suggested that it has a big
further object, preserving trees, and that
its duty is to “curb the experts.” One
set of experts, he said, will suggest a
particular variety, another will say (later)
that it was the wrong variety, and yet
another (when the trees are doing well)
that none should have been planted just
there at all. A true bill, and its appli-
cation is not limited to S.A.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: A marvellous amount of
perverted ingenuity is employed by gold
thieves. Melbourne is still pondering
over the most recent example. A truck-
load of articles from Bendigo was re-
ceived at Spencer-street station. There
was known to be a bag of £4OOO
worth of gold amongst them. A
special escort accompanied the mail-
van to the G.P.0., and the articles
were placed on the conveyor-belt, but
when the belt reached the mail-room the
bag was missing. It was subsequently found
empty in Little Bourke-street. The only
part of its journey when the gold was
not under supervision was when it was
passing through the tunnel of the con-
veyor belt, which is lighted inside and
big enough to accommodate a human
being. The only plausible supposition is
that a thief concealed himself there and
made his getaway when the belt stopped.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The world’s worst lady
driver is claimed by Ararat (Vic.).
She succeeded —it was night—in mis-
taking a paling fence for an open
garage entrance. Her husband heard a
crash and, leaping out of bed, hastened
out to the scene, and he found she had
not only driven through the fence but
across the yard and through another
fence. She ended up on a railway line,
and was removed before she could wreck
a train.


One of the problems for those with money
beyond their immediate needs is that of safe,
gainful investment. High yields are tempting,
but often the capital is risked for the expecta-
tion of extra income.
For the shrewd investor, who wants his
money to be safe while it earns him a satis-
factory return—an interest-bearing deposit is
recommended.
Deposits from £5 upwards are accepted by
the Rural Bank for three, six, twelve or twenty-
four months at regular banking rates, and the
money so invested helps the progress of the
State.
Cheque accounts may also be opened at any
branch of the Bank.
This banking service is available to YOU.
RURAL BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
Head Office: Martin Place, Sydney
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED ,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS .
s,
I
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.
OHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd
, » ■ j T7/if nW(7 "i _a a
(Incorporated in Victoria.) Pft^RO.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE Phone.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY Phone.
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WILLIAM BEDE DALLEY
By J.H.M. ABBOTT.
“Dailey’s Castle, Manly’s historic home,
is likely soon to disappear. It was built
by William Bede Dailey just before he
retired from public life.”
D ALLEY was as different from John
Robertson (B. 8/2/’39) as cheese
is from rolled steel. No two men
had ever been more dissimilar.
Robertson, rough, forthright, violent and
lurid in language ; Dailey, all that was
cultured, suave and gentle.
Dailey was the first really “big” man
I met. He was an intimate friend of my
father, and more than once I was taken
to Manly for a week-end in the big house
on the hill by Sydney-road, still known
as “Dailey’s Castle.” How great his
charm must have been to have impressed
itself unforgettably on the mind of a
bush-bred youngster not yet in his teens!
Robertson and Parkes are remembered
as terrible, hairy, uncouth old men ; the
first ravingly blastiferous, and the other
cynically incomprehensible. But Dailey
was a kindly and friendly personage
whom it was a pleasure to be near, who
understood small boys and had a power
of winning their suspicious regard that is
not an attribute possessed by many.
In later years I was constantly re-
minded of W. B. Dailey whenever I met
The Bulletin’s Jack Dailey. The son
was extraordinarily like the father in ap-
pearance, and had inherited much also of
his charm.
Froude’s Oceana (is it read nowadays?)
gave the best word-picture of Dailey that
was ever done. The historian dined one
night in 1885 with Dailey and Martin
when the Sudan Contingent was prepar-
ing for departure.
He [Dailey] was preoccupied and talked
but little. His conversation is usually care-
less and brilliant. That evening, to my
regret, he sat silent. The anxieties of the
Suakin expedition were apparently weigh-
ing upon him, and it was quite right that
they should Mr. Dailey was risking his
position and his reputation for what he
conceived to be the good of his country,
and we live in days when to run risks for
anything except our own advantage is far
from common, and when ventured is still
more rarely understood.
At their last meeting they discussed
Colonial and Imperial Federation.
Froude quotes Dailey’s ideas as to Aus-
tralian naval defence. It is interesting to
see how they have been fulfilled in the
constitution and development of the
Royal Australian Navy.
The fleet ought to be one. Division
was weakness, and the old story of the
bundle of sticks had here its proper appli-
cation. Let there be one navy, Mr. Dailey
said, under the rule of a single admiralty—
a navy in which the colonies should be as
much interested as the Mother Country,
which should be theirs as well as hers,
and on which they might all rely in time of
danger... .Let each great colony, or group
of colonies, have its own squadron, which
should bear its name, should be always
present in its waters, and be supported
out of its own resources, while it remained
at the same time an integral part of the
one navy of Oceana. So the empire
would be invulnerable in its own element,
and, invulnerable there, might laugh at the
ill-will of the nations of the earth com-
bined.
Of course in the ’eighties the air was
only for breathing and wafting wool-
clippers over the ocean.
But Dailey had had triumphs that
Froude didn’t know—those brilliant
years at the Bar that were perhaps years
of advocacy, sometimes of utterly lost
causes, than which there have been none
more forcibly intellectual in the story of
Australian legal life.
Eden and Duff Cooper never mention
the Dominions in their speeches and
articles, even articles syndicated in
Dominion newspapers. They should
know that the Dominions, among them,
possess more than a third of the fit male
population of the Empire, and seemingly
they take it for granted that the
Dominions will meekly make their more
than a third available for a war in Cen-
tral or Eastern Europe. Quite obviously
it never occurs to them that the
Dominions may have other ideas.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
The Archbishop of Canterbury is
under fire again, even in the House of
Lords. There one of several lay peers
said he had been “shocked at the Arch-
bishop’s suggestion that this most Chris-
tian country should co-operate with the
most godless country,” his Grace having
intimated that he is reconciled to a Rus-
sian alliance in a war of Right against
Might.
It is strange to hear the “Right against
Might” cry again after one-and-twenty
years. This reduction of the most com-
plex of problems to the simplest of
formulas satisfies primitive minds like
that of Mr. W. M. Hughes, whose
thought is back in Wales again, but
better was expected of the Archbishop
of Canterbury. A great Anglican divine
of the Civil War period struck a deeper
note. Invited to champion the more
boisterous of the two factions which
each claimed to be the personification of
Right, he said it was rather a contest
between publicans and sinners on the
one side and scribes and Pharisees on
the other.
* sH * *
“Feng-Shui”: My old friend Paku
Bewono, i.e., Nail of the Universe, is dead
in Surakarta, Java, at 72, leaving 66 chil-
dren (eldest 57, youngest 10), 116 grand-
children and 20 great-grandchildren, and
I don’t know how many wives. This is a
fair quiverful for anybody, and the Susu-
hunan, to give him his official title, was
a busy man, inasmuch as he was the
priestly head of 45,000,000 Mohamme-
dans, and Javanese conceptions of
suburbia required him to live inside his
kraton with upwards of 10,000 poor rela-
tions, camp followers and hangers-on.
Before he could leave it he had to obtain
the permission of the Dutch authorities.
His only recreation was watching a dozen
of his daughters or granddaughters,
accompanied by the State gamelang or
orchestra, dance a ballet, five minutes of
which would make an Australian first-
night audience demand its money back.
He was a living demonstration of the
ancient saying “Divide and rule,” the
Dutch having set up his brother-in-law
with a rival establishment outside the
kraton walls. I called on his brother-in-
law once, and found him completely
modernised, down to the Caucasian con-
ception of monogamy. Brother-in-law and
his wife were cultured to their fingertips.
They gave me extraordinarily bad coffee
in an extraordinarily large room, and it
turned out that the prince was a member
of the sect that built the amphitheatre at
Balmoral in Sydney, in expectation of
the Second Coming. They had both re-
served front-stall seats.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Diego Garcia, in the
Chagos group, which is to be one of the
stepping-stones for the Guba on her test
flight for the Commonwealth Govern-
ment from Onslow to Mombasa, was the
scene of an incident in 1914. Three
months after the declaration of war a
foreign warship blew in. The islanders
had neither radio nor cable communica-
tion, they hadn’t seen a strange face or
a newspaper for six months, and they
received the visitors with open arms.
The commander was a particularly
charming man, the officers were as nice
as pie, and the common sailors fraternised
amazingly well with the townsfolk while
the Governor was entertaining the hier-
archy royally. After leisurely filling up
with provisions and water the visitors
departed, leaving lOUs for payment on
their Government. A couple of hours
later a British cruiser hurried in and
announced a state of war between Britain
and Germany. That foreign warship was
the Emden.
)fc H: *
“Captain Pintle”: The sky-glow created
by the lights of London has obliged
the Royal Observatory to terminate its
residence of 254 years at Greenwich, and
move to the country. Astronomical
photography has become almost impos-
sible on account of fogging of the
negatives. The move will not, of course,
make any difference to the historic
“Meridian of Greenwich,” which forms
the international base line for all navi-
gational calculations of longitude and
time. Samuel Pepys, whose extremely
frank diary of his daily life between 26
and 31 has obscured his really great
qualities and attainments as an official
and a man keenly interested in science,
took a leading part in its establishment,
and Charles 11. granted the royal pat-
ronage. Greenwich was then a quiet
country village, well outside a London
with a smaller population than Mel-
bourne now has.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
This competition has been so successful that it will be continued until further
notice.
Every week a first prize of £3 3s. is awarded, and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
A Randwick (N.S.W.) lady gets the £3 3s. this week for a few sound remarks
about youth and illusions.
Let Sleeping Dogs Lie
“U. Kad’s” (B. 29 / 3/’39) arguments
are good, but it is a pity he did not lay
off the young bloods. Let them retain
their illusions about the weaker sex. After
all, illusions are the only things worth
while in any young life, a constant source
of inspiration (and elevation).
Even divested of “war-paint,” silk
stockings, high heels, etc., woman is a
creature of beauty, and, though when
taken to a gunyah as a goddess and there
discovered to be an “animal like him-
self,” is, nevertheless, one to be protected
and treated “differently”; one to do
things for, to spur a man on. So let
'em go on thinking women are superior
beings. God knows, they’ll find out soon
enough that things are not what they
seem, but at least they will have had their
fun and the satisfaction of making the
discovery for themselves.
Life is a series of ups and downs, and
youth, being inquisitive, likes to find
things out itself.
Admittedly commonsense should be
exercised before plunging into marriage,
but take romance and illusion out of it
and you take the spice out of life. —
P. O. MacCabe (N.S.W.).
The writer of the foregoing is Mrs. P. O.
MacCabe, of The Avenue, Randwick,
Sydney. She wins the £3 3s.
A Golden Opportunity
One of the strongest objections to the
admission of European refugees into Aus-
tralia is the possibility of their displacing
Australians from employment.
Coming as they do from the great
manufacturing centres of Europe, a fair
number of them are skilled in the manu-
facture of articles that at present are
prominent in our import figures. Not-
able examples are electrical fittings,
apparel, fancy goods, machinery, clocks
yid stationery.
Several of these refugees have “land-
ing money” ranging from a modest £2OO
to £7OOO. Special landing permits could
be issued entitling the holder to reside
in Australia for one year on condition
that groups of migrants undertook to
establish some approved new industry.
On the fulfilment of this condition, the
permits could be extended indefinitely.
A further condition that 25 p.c. of the
labor employed by such companies must
be natural-bom Australian men would
keep a few more of our countrymen off
the dole. —J. Me. (Q.).
Refugees
While the Government is trying to
persuade us that a war is imminent and
that we must be prepared, it is every
day admitting to the country aliens and
potential spies in the shape of refugees.
Although some may have a deep-
rooted hatred for the man who has exiled
them there are others whose love of
country cannot be expected to die during
what they no doubt consider a pro-
onged holiday in Australia.
Moreover, the heart-rending pen-
pictures that have been painted in the
scare press during the last weeks con-
cerning the treatment of these refugees
are in direct contrast to the sleek, over-
fed individuals who have adopted the
eastern suburbs of Sydney as their
Promised Land —the one who sat next
to me in the tram to-day looked as much
like a refugee as an Australian politician.
—F. A. B. (N.S.W.).
“Hitler Plays False”
I am happy to place on record that
my faith in The Bulletin has at least
been partially restored by the leading
article in the issue of March 22 headed
“Hitler Plays False.” At last the
powers that be at the helm of the Bully
are coming to their senses, although they
deserve a good portion of the ridicule
at present being poured out on the woe-
begone Chamberlain for having sup-
ported, through thick and thin, that mis-
guided gentleman’s sophistical and un-
British policy. What is wrong with the
brains of the world to-day when the
average man can predict with fair
accuracy what is going to happen next
in Europe, but the so-called leaders in
every country seem to be blind to the
train of events?
When Hitler marched into the Rhine-
land who thought for one moment that
this would be the end? Similarly, when
he took over Austria and the Sudeten-
land, was anyone so lacking in acumen
that he really still believed in the “last
territorial demand” rubbish? Now Hitler
has invaded what remains of Czecho-
slovakia, and has grabbed Memel, be-
sides signing one of his well-known
“treaties” with Rumania —he might just
as well have taken this over as well, and
will do so before too long. There is
plenty left for him to take yet —and here
we have the piteous spectacle of the
doddering Chamberlain mouthing mean-
ingless phrases to the effect that “If the
actions of the German Government [!]
“My mistake , lady!”
are to be interpreted as a threat to
dominate Europe by force,” etc.! What
else is needed to convince him?
I sincerely hope that this leading article
heralds a change of view to a more com-
monsense attitude by The Bulletin, and
that a man will now be able to read its
comments on foreign affairs without a
series of explosive snorts. —R. H. Gor-
don (W.A.).
Public Opinion
In democracies public opinion is a
force which can and does sway Govern-
ments this way and that. In common-
place affairs public opinion in the main
is right, but in the delicate and intricate
negotiations with foreign nations it
rarely has the knowledge and insight
to be a trustworthy guide. It sees
causes, but cannot foresee effects.
In dictatorships public opinion is not
articulate, and thus, in international
affairs, the ruling body, armed with all
the facts, knowledge, implications, etc.,
and untrammelled by popular sentiment,
can make and unmake treaties to the ad-
vantage of the nation.
In relation to Italy and Japan the
British Empire has been forced into an
unfortunate and, perhaps, dangerous
position. Both these nations were our
allies in the World War, and never
should have been allowed to drift away
from the inner circle of our friendship.
Italy, stretching half-way across the
Mediterranean, occupies a position of
such strategic importance to Britain and
the outlying Empire that her friendship
is invaluable, and it is not unlikely that
she would prefer the goodwill of
Britain to that of Germany. Abyssinia
struck a chord of sentiment throughout
the British Empire, public opinion arose,
sanctions were ineffectively imposed
upon Italy, and the harm was done.
Australia, for its part, lost a good
customer country for wool and wheat.
Japan we treated as we did Italy. In
the result, a friendly nation that pro-
tected our troopships during the Great
War has been turned into a possible
enemy; and we badly dislocated another
wool market.
If our minds were ruled by prac-
tical commonsense instead of senti-
ment there would be no need for the
feverish armament race and sky-rocket-
ing taxation. Diplomacy is a difficult
problem in face of democratic public
opinion.—J. Fitzpatrick (N.S.W.).
For the National Register
It is typical of the average Australian
that he will tell a man to put up his
hands before fighting him. The “king-
hit” is left to the more disreputable.
There is a strong element, however,
which says, “Although Germany has
certain legitimate grievances, smash her
before she is in a position to retaliate
with any chance of success.”
In making a National Register it would
be advisable to include these people in
a special index. They should be placed
straightway into the first line of attack
should the occasion arise.
The index would include all those
newsgatherers and publishers who dis-
seminate scare rumors and lies, belliger-
ent radio talkers, Communists and their
various shades of adherents in Left
Book and other associations; and, as
an afterthought, those who through in-
eptitude are crushing that inborn urge
of patriotism in country militia volun-
teers. It would halve the possibility of
war.—X. Runner (N.S.W.).
A Victorian’s View
A few lines in appreciation of the
article “Supping with the Soviets.” What
a great pity these “Empiah-minded”
dailies won’t put before the public the
facts as stated in your article. Every
word of it is true, as also are your views
on the Spanish conflict.
I guess there are lots of people of the
same opinion as myself in these matters,
but who just can’t be bothered to write
and back you up.
While I’m on the job, will you rep-
rimand the “Sundry Shows” critic for
me for having such a “snout” on any
American entertainment, either picture
or play? In nearly every issue of your
paper his remarks are of a derogatory
nature. I would like him to realise that
the Americans are in the forefront where
entertainment is concerned. —• C. R. T.
(Vic.).
Borrowing
Perhaps the greatest bugbear of mod-
ern society is loss of independence of
the individual, the popular explanation
being that one “class” exploits another.
I suggest that the real cause is needless
borrowing. We each mortgage our
future productive power to build and
furnish a house, buy a car or radio, and
countless other things which, at a pinch,
we could quite well do without.
Not so many years ago the only way
to acquire property was to work and
save for it, and individuals were a good
deal happier. It was fun to save money
and enjoy a period of anticipation—
struggle is often more satisfying than
achievement —and a man’s goods were
free from debt.
Farmers and manufacturers owned
their properties and were not dictated
to by lenders, and even the village
blacksmith felt the pride of independence
that was everywhere. The phenomenal
increase in population during the last
century took place without housing loans
or hire purchase—probably the very lack
of them helped matters, because people
now hesitate to risk the equities in their
property by other obligations.
The same thing applies nationally.
Even if borrowing was necessary in our
early days in order to make a start, once
further loans are contracted to pay in-
terest and import luxury goods, instead
of buying them out of surplus produc-
tion, our independence is gone. We
have an overseas debt alone of about
£600,000,000. Had we been content to
pay our way progress might have been
slower at first, but we would be free
from debt, and expanding faster now
through low costs. —J. N. Rookledge
(N.S.W.).
Time-payment
The “easy-payment” system is being
carried a bit too far.
In buying a home, a car or even fur-
niture it is not altogether demoralising
to get it at a “your-credit-is-good” store,
but the idea of tempting people, par-
ticularly young people, to buy clothing
of every description on time-payment is
ali wrong.
On the radio one
hears this kind of
thing: “Four pairs
of stockings are
yours at Is. per
week.” It gives
people quite a
wrong idea of values,
and they naturally
buy more than they
can afford.
I think the nation
would be much
better off in the long
run if this were
stopped by legisla-
tion. The easy-pay-
ment part of it be-
comes a fantasy after
the goods begin
wearing out and
need replacement.—
R. E. Pullin (W.A.).'
What Do We
Read?
What is wrong
with the reading
public of Australia?
Good magazines,
packed with articles
of interest and entertainment, have
to cease publication because they are
not financial propositions, yet over-
seas magazines of an inferior type
continue to flood the markets —and are
eagerly bought.
Perhaps we could inculcate a greater
interest in Australian products of litera-
ture if we started with the children. They,
too, eagerly absorb the sensational comics
from overseas, while an Australian comic,
if it starts, is doomed to an early death
through lack of interest.
Australian writers can produce all types
of literature —comic, romantic and high-
brow —but they have to go overseas and
write of other countries before we are
prepared to recognise them.—M. A. B.
(Q-).
The Australian Novelist
I have read every Australian novel
available during recent years, and it sur-
prises me that, as a theme, the city seems
to be almost completely neglected by
Australian writers.
For years past the bulk of Australians
have been urban dwellers, either in the
capitals or in substantial country towns,
and there are few countries where the
city middle-class is more numerous and
influential than in Australia. Yet this
class has found no interpreter.
Another strange characteristic of Aus-
tralian fiction is the strong note of sad-
ness even of pessimism that puns
through it. Few of the Australian novels
that I have read have been cheerful and
confident in tone.
Such an attitude towards life is not
at all representative of true Australian
feeling. Far from being of a melancholy


Explosives in Sydney Harbor
Ships arriving at Port Adelaide and
carrying explosives not in excess of 250
tons are discharged at a specially-
constructed berth in the river, well away
from the port. If the amount exceeds
250 tons the ship is anchored and dis-
charged off Pt. Gawler, at least 10 miles
from the port.
Similar precautions are taken in Mel-
bourne, but in Sydney a ship carrying
enough explosives to blow up the city
anchors and discharges in the harbor
within a few hundred yards off Point
Piper. Every precaution is, of course,
taken, but Sydney Harbor, owing to its
congestion of traffic, is not a suitable
place for the discharge of explosives.
The possibility of a flying boat seeking
Rose Bay and barging into a ship with
a few hundred tons of dynamite aboard
is very remote, but the collision that
caused the explosion which wrecked
Halifax Harbor was just such a remote
possibility.
Outside the convenience of shipping
companies, there is no valid reason why
waterfront residents of Sydney Harbor
should be subjected to such a danger.
As most of the dynamite shipped here
is for the coal industry, a hulk moored
in Jervis Bay would serve as distributing
centre for the South Coast, and a similar
hulk at Port Stephens would serve New-
castle district and the North. Safety
First (N.S.W.).
Flooding Lake Eyre
One point “Murkah” overlooks (B.
29/ 3/’39) in his satire on the attempt
to flood Lake Eyre from the sea to the
south. The lake is about 250 miles from
the Spencer Gulf ; it is about 40ft. below
sea-level. Water will not run with a
fall of less than about 6in. to the mile,
and it trickles but slowly at that. Work-
ing on the basis of 6in., that subtracts
80 miles from the 250. That leaves 170
miles at 6in., equal to 85ft. It would
have to be a devil of a tide which rose
85ft. to force the water through.—
N. M. L. (Q ).
If They All Followed Atlantis
I wonder how we would fare in Aus-
tralia and M.L. if, overnight, the rest
of the world slipped into the sea, leaving
us the only dry land on the planet.
Of course it would be very awkward
for a number of people. There’d be no
more silk stockings or Hollywood fillums
or petrol for joy-rides; and there’d be
no overseas loans to pay for them. But
there’d be plenty of good food and cloth-
ing—if the girls would wear wool —and
we’d still have our beds to sleep in at
nights.
Gradually we’d develop substitutes for
commodities we are without, such as
power alcohol for petrol, and we’d learn
to make things now made for us over-
seas. In the process a lot of people
who have never worked in their lives
would have to work, and this would
bring great joy to some and dismay to
those who have waxed fat in the money-
changing and speculating business.
The grazier and wheatgrower would
have a bad time adapting themselves, but
wheatgrowing for export is hardly profit-
able now, and I can’t see that the
grazier’s future is very promising with
wool at lOd. a pound on a market where
the demand appears at least equal to
the supply.
But. despite all the disorganisation I
believe we’d emerge revitalised. ' We
might even manage an increase in the
birthrate, so that the prospect of ulti-
mately becoming extinct like the dodo
would no longer haunt us.
All this is, unfortunately, mere specu-
lation, but it may help in assessing the
value of many overseas trade relations
and influences. —T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
Clear Prescriptions
In Norway doctors are liable to three
months’ imprisonment if they fail to
write their prescriptions clearly. This
law could with benefit be introduced in
Australia.
Many of the prescriptions I have seen
have been simply scribbled, and as there
is little difference in many of the signs
used it would be easy for the dispensing
chemist to misread the prescription. So
let us raise the cry for clearer prescrip-
tions. —C. (Q.).
Concentrate on the Youths
A member of the P. 8.1. in the
last box-on, I proffer a suggestion. As
universal training for our eligible men is
not acceptable to “Joke” Lyons and his
mob, why not introduce a scheme
whereby we could train the youth of
our country?
The thought is not original, as it is
already an established practice in
totalitarian countries. When a boy leaves
school and is pronounced physically fit,
he should be required to serve in a
properly constituted military camp for
a period of not less than six months.
Put this scheme to the average boy
and he will jump at it. Such a course
of training would instil in the boy an
appreciation of his responsibilities as a
future citizen, teach him the importance
of discipline, and help him very
materially, mentally and physically.
Assuming that the boy acquires these
advantages, he should be better suited
to his ordinary calling in life, whatever
it may be.
The cost of such a scheme would ad-
mittedly be considerable, but -the
eventual benefit to the nation as a
whole could not be estimated in terms of
pounds, shillings and pence.—P. H.
Helmet (Vic.).
Post-graduate Schooling
Have “T.C.W.” and others considered
the difficulty of teaching children of 14
and under “to subordinate individual
interests to national and to become
thinking people where the affairs of the
nation are concerned”? You can’t ex-
pect grown-up thoughts and interests
from a boy in short pants. We are ad-
vised to raise the school-leaving age.
But a child of 15 is not mentally much
more advanced than one of 14.
A complete course of adolescent edu-
cation is impracticable. My solution —
designed for country children only—
is: Let them leave school at 14 —12
might be better. ■■ Spend the next few
years on the farm—rthey are better em-
ployed there and will then develop, if
ever, that love for the land which is
the heritage of those who work from
their earliest years in close contact with
it. Return to school for from, say, 18
to 20.
Those alert, receptive young people
will learn more in six months than you
can drive into the puzzled head of a boy
of 14 until he’s well past 14, anyhow.
It’s not original—-it’s being done in Den-
mark. Let’s try it! —G. V. R. (Vic.).
Arms and Communication
Wars and rumors of wars, the un-
settled state of affairs generally—what
are we goiqg to do about it? We are
fed up with platitudes.
It is said that time brings the man.
But the man will be able to do a quicker
and better job if he has good tools ready
to work with.
An old expression, “teach the young
idea how to shoot,” is a good one.
Teach them, without waiting for the
standardised weapon; they will soon
adapt themselves to the new arm with
the added advantage of being somewhere
near marksmen. Training will also teach
discipline, which is most essential, as an
undisciplined mob running round with
guns would be highly dangerous. Teach
them to obey orders, but also coach
them so that they can act on their own
initiative if officers are removed and
they are without recognised leaders.
Communications are also essential;
we must not overlook the fact that the
first thing that an enemy would try to
do would be to destroy the wireless trans-
mitting stations. Thanks to that Adel-
aide man who developed the pedal
transmitting and receiving sets used by
the Australian Inland Mission, communi-
cations could be kept up that no enemy
could destroy. (This, perhaps, is only
my own opinion.) The present effective
range is, I think, 500 miles, but doubt-
less this could be increased. Let every
company have one or two sets. Train a
large percentage of the men how to use
and service them. In the meantime,
classes could be held and the young
people (I say young people, because
they learn the Morse code much more
readily than those more matured) of
both sexes taught the Morse code and
the handling of these machines. lan
Stanley (S.A.).
The Hawkesbury River Bridge
The Hawkesbury River bridge is in
such an unsatisfactory condition that
trains have to pass over it at a snail’s
pace; as a vital link in our defence
scheme it should be in first-class order
or else replaced by a new bridge imme-
diately.
A start has been made on the pre-
liminary work of building a traffic-bridge
across the Hawkesbury. It would be a
good idea to build it to carry both rail-
and road-traffic instead of building two
separate bridges.
A new railway bridge will have to be
built sooner or later and the cost would
be greatly reduced if the departments
concerned showed a little co-operation
—if they can.—W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Prevention of Divorce
All this talk about divorce and preven-
tion of divorce calls to mind the divorce
laws of Dahomey, West Africa.
There, when a couple want a divorce,
they go to opposite corners of a room
and, taking it in turn, each shouts “I am
a fool.” Then, turning, they walk towards
each other shouting “We are fools.” If
their sense of humor can withstand such
treatment they may declare themselves
divorced; but often the comedy ends in
laughter and reconciliation.
Some similar custom could be intro-
duced here in cases where there is no
major reason for a divorce. If the
couple have a sense of humor, such a
plain statement of facts should effect a
reunion ; if they are humorless and un-
able to overlook trivialities, then they
will never make a success of marriage.—
Coll (Q.).
School Fire Dangers
The ever-present danger of fire in
large buildings, especially those con-
structed mainly of wood, reminds me of
the appalling fact that few schools take
full precautions to ensure against loss
of life in this manner.
In most other countries, and in
America particularly, every school has
compulsory fire-drill, very similar to that
which is carried out on board ship. In-
spectors are appointed to see .that the
instructions issued by a Fire Board are
strictly adhered to. Their visits are un-
announced, and the children • seldom
know if the drill is caused by genuine
emergency or just practice.
The wisdom of these precautions
should be clear, and it would be a simple
and inexpensive matter to install a system
of fire-drill in our schools. Validus
(N.S.W.).
Fumigate Waiting-rooms
In the press report of an eminent
medico’s speech on national fitness,
prominence was given to the quotation “A
cough can kill,” and the host of medicoes
assembled to hear the speech voiced
their regret that so little was done to
check the spread of disease.
But what about doctors’ waiting-
rooms? There sit people with all kinds
of diseases in all stages. Alongside them
are people free from disease, but perhaps
in a rundown condition and a sitting shot
for the germs being spread by the “coughs
that kill.” The same thing applies to out-
patients’ waiting-rooms at the hospitals.
The obvious remedy is fumigation.
There is a machine in use in operating
theatres that spreads an antiseptic mist.
Such a mist in the waiting-rooms is, to
this fellow’s mind, a necessity.—Burr
(Q-).
The Sack at Twenty-one
Except where they are learning a trade,
youths of 18 do as much work as men
of 21 and do it just as efficiently. They
do not, however, receive the same wages,
and when they reach the age of 21 they
are dismissed and replaced by younger
men.
To prevent this sort of thing the adult
age should be reduced to 18 and em-
ployers compelled to pay the adult wage
to youths of that age.
There is no reason why a youth of •
18 should not receive the same wage
as a man of 21. They eat the same
quantity of food, wear the same clothes,
and, generally, have to meet the same
living costs. —Eureka (N.S.W.).
Stamp Out T.B.
As South Australia’s climate is con-
sidered ideal for treatment of tubercu-
losis, the high-incidence figures, particu-
larly in the 15-30 age group in women,
are disgraceful. Seven lives per day is
the toll of t.b. in Australia, five per week
in S.A.
In spite of many advances in methods
of treatment, physicians can do no more
than assist the patient’s own powers of
resistance. It is essential that the disease
be discovered before it has assumed seri-
ous proportions, as it is then possible for
the patient to overcome it. Moreover,
an early case is free of infection. Special-
ists are confident that, given early diag-
nosis, they could stamp out the disease
in a couple of generations. To give them
a chance to do so will require close co-
operation between public, medical pro-
fession and Government.
The public will have to submit to indi-
vidual examination at definite periods.
The Government will have to carry
most of the cost of examination and any
treatment required ; it will have to grant
pensions to those advised to relinquish
work for a time ; and it will have to
provide suitable occupational conditions
when patients are fit for work. It will
be expensive at first but cheaper in the
long run, not counting the value of
human lives and health saved.
As an example of what can be done,
a survey of nurses and shopgirls was
recently made in Adelaide under a special
grant. It showed that about one-third
of several hundred tested had been in
contact with the germ. X-ray examina-
tions disclosed that about 20 of them had
developed it. As a result the S.A. Gov-
ernment has approached the Federal
Government with a request for pensions
for all cases. Another. probable result
is that the patients concerned are thank-
ing their lucky stars that the menace
was discovered before it was too late.
Australians must learn that anyone can
contract t.b. It is not fatal if treated
early, but its most insidious feature is
that it becomes deeply rooted before
making the patient suffer. Early t.b. can
be seen and not heard—the X-ray will
detect it anything up to three years before
other tests will. — Will Dempsey (S.A.).
Power Supplies
As it is impossible for Australia to
build up sufficient reserves of imported
petrol to maintain a mechanised army
for an extended period, why not exploit
our own,motor fuel resources? Shale oil
development is. under way, and there is
talk of investigating producer-gas derived
from charcoal, but nothing concrete has
yet been done about production of oil
from coal.
Another source which should be de-
veloped to the utmost is the production
of power alcohol from farm crops. In
Queensland, alcohol made from sugar-
cane is blended with a percentage of
imported petrol and used successfully. Ex-
tension of this venture should be a work
of national urgency and, at the same
time, distillation of power alcohol from
other cereal and root crops should be
investigated.
In addition to making us rriore in-
dependent of outside petrol, this work
would absorb crop surpluses, yield more
income to farmers and provide employ-
ment for other sections of the com-
munity.—Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Golden Speech
Oft have we heard that “silence 'is
golden,” but what of commercial travel-
lers whose glib tongues are money-
spinners ; what of politicians whose
words can sometimes raise their own
salaries another £2OO per annum? Holly-
wood stars sometimes get great salaries
for their looks —and words —and those
on the radio frequently receive many
“quids pro quo” for their verbal efforts.
America, fast to recognise potentiali-
ties, is holding speech classes. Not the
usual elocution classes, but classes in
verbal extemporary matters. Some of
the motor-car manufacturers and sales
managers give as many as two lessons a
week to the staff, and even policemen
have been embraced in the new scheme.
Schools in plenty have speech classes,
and there are special schools of business
practice (commercial colleges) and
speech. There are classes of chorus-
reading for the stutterer, who thus gains
confidence ; and so far has this new move-
ment progressed that one school was
attended by husky sons of labor, whose
standard of masculinity previously was
the roughest and coarsest speech, with
the result that it is now the mode to
speak with clear, well-modulated voices.
Machines record a speaker’s voice, and
he stands away from a repeating machine
and ascertains his own defects. Speech
teachers consider that their greatest ser-
vice to the nation is not improvement
in speaking, but its concomitant, an
increase in intellectuality, due largely to
reading and thought-encouragement.
Did not Demosthenes go out and address
the trees until he overcame speech de-
fects, and after that the people listened
to him with rapt attention, so even the
ancients knew the value of golden
speech”?— Crux (W.A.).
Early Breakfast at a Pub
Staying at a hotel in North Queensland
carrying C.T.A. endorsement, l as ■,
early breakfast. I received no porridge
or patent cereal, but a plate of .
beef surmounted with one egg wa p ,
before me. No coffee only lea.
pub there was neither lounge nor writing
room.- Gourmet (Q-).
and introspective temperament, the aver-
age Australian is cheerful and well-
balanced with no doubt as to his capacity
to hold his. own at anything with any-
body.
DEN (N.S.W.).


ĸ
For Constipation Leads
to Endless Trouble
Nature has decreed that the Bowels shall
operate regularly —at least once a day.
Defiance or neglect of this law leads to many
kinds of suffering, including Headaches, Bad
Breath, Biliousness, Indigestion, Pimples, etc.
Constipation also makes you look and
feel dull, bad tempered and livery.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a
proved remedy for regulating the Bowels
and restoring the system to proper working
order in a thorough yet gentle manner.
A course will convince.
Dr. Morses
i
i
£
PILL
irpil
Is an Ideal
SKIN BALM
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, one or more liberal
applications of Mirpil will bring
relief. If the skin is too tender to
bear being touched by hand, lay a
clean linen or cotton cloth, saturated
with the Balm, over the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss of weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
k
ķ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(.Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
AUSTR A*L> -S, N O O
WOMAN'S MIRROR O
KNITTING BOOK FOR 1939
Over 20 exclusive and useful gar-
ments in this 36-page Knitting
Book—the cheapest and
best in Australia.
NOW
READY
?y
ct.S' -O'
rfi”
y^ t \0 G e
C°/ -f'l P<^
,» s e y ..•••■
'W* .■■••■■"■••■•■'■
4&S'
n\V 1
o*
yy r*ei
v*V
*\v' S «A S '
£s• .‘VJ 0 ,:
Vsi*>
V#
A^° V


rt/SKeXah
RLL-AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTS
OUiWtoilumTqhiitfH&
* WAR AT AH
STEEL FENCING WIRE
m
*
mm
BLACK OR GALVANIZED
WARATAH
RUNS OUT STRAIGHT AND FUAT
"WARATAH
BARBED WIRE
FOR STRENGTH AND DURABILITY
" WAR ATAH"
Stout
LIGHT AND STRONG
‘WARATAH"
HINGED JOINT FENCE
STAYS TAUT AND FIRM
WARATAH'
MOTOR BY-PASS
THE EVER OREM GATE
RuComdU AfamdL ktewi
tkein.Mb^t6
illllSIISI!IIISIII!lll
; , .
1
&
m
mm.
MW®
■■■■■ ;>:#S
m
¥
m
■
> :■
s ■ n
■
3K
:
is
«I
! £
Sfß
Mm
&
SB
• ®
m
fe<
<3
I Ss
iiS
Mr-
m
m
mm
3
•v •••
m
ZiM.
XV
'A <• <s .5 <J ».& .$» >? ,\
1
a*
MADE FROM
B.H.R
NEWCASTLE STEEL
AN INVITATION 15 EXTENDED TD CUSTOMERS TO VISIT OUR WORKS AT NEWCASTLE
RYLRNDS BROS .(rust.) PTY. LTD
WORKS • NEWCRSTLE- N.S.W.
HEAD OFFICE • 422 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
