

$r •< v,
•* y
28
v e-f
%!*•»■ ‘..vs •
‘^■'4i>-''...... 3..:fic ■;S -•
U-v
r/
**'V ■ Jjk'i&aOP' V- *«•» *^%s
• ••*•! s.-'*
SL..S
rt£
«£
:.<2
110
55®2
%
<S
\i m
K.
3SV, . uv. .
THE
? -
se
Ife <V
5
.mWT.*
USRW
«
v#'"*
✓ /7 \ ;'U
w
■-■■- ■**
%
- - fa v. ii ' i
Wv. ,
H 4
-5 1
★
lv - 1 '»C^»
.--•
faN
%
-S-s
/
*
/
FROM
OUR
SUNLIT
WHEATFIELDS
150 years ago the rugged un-
tamed bushland swarmed
with obstacles to daunt the
hardiest pioneer. To-day in
our generous sunshine lie vast
expanses golden with a boun-
teous harvest of food. Every
essential to perfect health and
development is held in this,
Australia's great heritage from
the man on the land. It is a
treasure house from which
fine ingredients are drawn
for the good biscuits exported
by Arnott's to many lands
and varied peoples.
DISTRIBUTORS:
Broken Hill.
Messrs. D. & J. Fowler Ltd.
Messrs. A. A. Brice & Co. Ltd.
Queensland.
Messrs. R. M. Gow, Brisbane.
South Australia.
Messrs. D. & J. Fowler Ltd., Adelaide.
West Australia.
Messrs. D. &. J. Fowler Ltd., Fremantle,
Messrs. Burns Philp & Co. Ltd.,
Fremantle.
Messrs. Nestles & Anglo Swiss Con-
densed Milk Co. (Aust.) Ltd., Perth.
Tasmania.
Messrs. Murdoch Bros., Hobart.
. Messrs. Gardner & McKenzie Ltd.,
Launceston.
WILLIAM ARNOTT PTY. LIMITED, HOMEBUSH
Clmotts
FAMOUS
SAO BISCUITS
OFTEN BUTTERED - NEVER BETTERED
FOR
ECONOMY'S
SAKE BUY
WHOLE
TINS
The Bulletin
Communism s Chance
Vol. 60.—N0. 3114.
Wednesday, October 18, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Learn
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
_ CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 339 .
“BATTLER’S” TALES OF EARLY
ROCKHAMPTON.
39 Chapters, 19 Photographs. Price 7/6.
May be had direct from the Author,
“The Sanctuary,” Rockhampton. Or
from K. M. Grant & Co., Commission
Agents, Rockhampton.
DYMOCK’S new library
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
TWO TRAVELLERS.
Instead of visiting every country in
the world in 12hr. 18sec., lowering the
record of the previous travel best-seller
by 3J-sec., Dennis Puleston, author of
Blue Water Vagabond (Davies), takes six
years over the week-end job of getting
from Leigh, at the mouth of the Thames,
around the world and back to Leigh.
Similarly, Gerald Reitlinger, author of
South of the Clouds (Faber), instead of
a ’plane uses Chinese bearers and mules
to go up the Yangtze and through
a gorge where the main stream cuts for
ten miles through the heart of a snow
range, with, at one point, a sheer wall
of nearly 10,000 ft. from the river bed to
the beginning of the snow-fields, “perhaps
the highest precipice in the world.”
Obviously, neither has any proper
sense of the value of time, and both seem
to like travel, not to make a book out
of it, but just for its own sake; major
offences, when the bulk of travel writing
—in the travelling itself and the literary
style, too —can be grouped under the
general title Whoosh! The Travel
Authors’ Union should come down on
the pair of them.
With a fellow youthful spirit who was
to fall by the way—a Manhattan lass
sighted him, and then there was one —
Puleston set out from Leigh in a 31ft.
craft of teak, kauri and white oak and
no engine. He took so long getting to
Teneriffe that even he logs it as “a very
slow passage,” then a steady sail of a
month-or-so’s duration across the
Atlantic, with a humorous finny en-
thusiast ploughing along in their wake
about six inches from the rudder; and
after that months of loitering round
West Indies isles, fraternising with the
inhabitants, watching fish swimming
about on reefs, sampling swizzle—which
is a decoction of Nelson’s Blood, ozone
and sunshine—and leaving one enchanted
isle reluctantly, only to cruise to another
yet more enchanted.
Having about £4O between them to
start with, they had just about idled
through it when manna fell out of
Gahd’s Own Country in the welcome
shape of a couple of Yale students who
wanted a cruise. Not to risk being had
up for speeding, they next took over a
coconut selection on an island the Swiss
Family might have invented, and spent
twelve months cleaning the place up,
fishing, and living on fish, bananas, goat-
meat stew, guava jam, cream, home-
made butter and cheese, and cakes made
out of flour and grated coconut. They
raised pigs and chickens, and “after the
day’s work on the estate went down to
the beach again.”
More cruising with Americans of
about their own enthusiastic age, until
Puleston sets foot on Gahd’s Own
Country early one foggy morning by
wading ashore from an American-
owned craft in which they’ve grounded
on the coast. New York, where he loses
his mate and signs on for the summer as
skipper of a pleasure boat owned by an
eccentric old girl; after that it’s up to
the frozen north as one of a crew bring-
ing a sturdy little ship down through the
icy seas, and then treasure-hunting from
her among foundered wrecks and ancient
cannon on the bottom of seas sailed of
yore by the Spanish gold galleons.
Next, it’s on another small craft, with
more American shipmates, down through
the Panama, across the Pacific to New
Guinea—dropping in on numerous
islands —and up to China to find there’s
a war on. Here Puleston has just enough
money to get home the hard way across
Northern China and Russia. There are
difficulties about his travelling on a
Japanese troop trdin till he remembers a
newspaper clipping recording how his
party had sent a cockatoo some 2000
miles as a present to the Emperor of
Japan. The Japanese in the southern
Philippines had considered the party
honored beyond the lot of ordinary men
when the Emperor accepted the bird, and
now the newspaper clip-
ping in Japanese works as
magic, and he travels
horse-class with the troops.
Back home in Leigh,
Puleston sets down his
simple record with such boyish pleasure
that the only possible conclusion
is that he enjoyed every minute of
his six years’ outing. In all that time
he doesn’t meet a single shipmate who
doesn’t turn out to be one of the best
fellows on earth. He has no literary
style, but, from being so much in the
sun, sunshine has got into his ink.
Reitlinger’s ink is full of snow and ice
and howling winds and great heights.
Puleston is a romantic; Reitlinger a
realist with some literary strength and an
eye for the magnificent scene and for
such sights as this, noted on a mountain
railway track:
Last there arrived the matriarchs, each
a dowager empress in her own right, re-
morseless figures tottering about on bound
feet in smocks and trousers strapped over
the ankles. I found these veterans of
the soil peculiarly terrifying, but the most
nightmarish of ail was the village lunatic,
half-naked, with long hair and long nails,
crouching between the tracks and devour-
ing a lump of raw meat, which he played
with his front paws like a tiger.
If his description of the precipitous
gorge when his party at last reached it
had been as clearly set down as that
portrait of Caliban he would have
written a great book. Of the trek to
that stage he writes with a quality like
Belloc’s, but of the great moment of
his travel he makes nothing much better
than a scramble along a hillside. A pity,
for otherwise it is a splendid piece of
travel writing of the rare kind that is
done with sincerity and feeling. Far
out there he came across a party of
university botanists who had set out with
mules on an expedition to collect moun-
tain primulas, but had meanwhile lost
their university through the war.
The spectacle of 40 mule-loads of
primulas wandering thousands of miles
over China before an invading army must
be in the best tradition of Chinese history.
His book is not so far off the best
tradition of travel writing.
Gilbert Murray's Greeks .
It’s a Greek play, and its period is
about 2400 years ago, but Gilbert Mur-
ray’s version of The Persians of AEschylus
(Allen and Unwin ; Angus and Robert-
son) can hardly be called escape litera-
ture. /Eschylus based the play on the
terrific sea-battle in which Themistocles
defeated the Persians under Xerxes, and,
as if the messenger’s account of the havoc
weren’t enough to make it topical,
Murray in his introduction compares
Persian power-politics to present events
in Europe:
The invasion of Hellas is a crime, the
crime of Hubris, dark but heroic; the
crime of one who claims to be, for some
fantastic reason or no reason at all, above
humankind and above the law. One
can hardly help reflecting how deeply our
world of to-day is overshadowed by the
presence of the same inhuman Hubris.
Possibly it’s because he regards Xerxes
as a Hitler that Murray has really let
himself go on the leader’s lamentations
after his defeat:
Xerxes: Lift arms, lift arms, and sorrow
as I say.
Chorus: Ah, well-a-day.
Xerxes: Cry as I cry and beat your
breast this way.
Chorus: Lord, to hear is to obey.
Xerxes: Lift up your voices.
Chorus: Even so,
Timed with a black and sobbing blow.
The lamentation is a splendid climax to
the drama. The earlier passages are well
enough, but Murray continues to convey
the impression that the Greek poets had
all read Swinburne in their adolescence.
Hot Monsieur Ozenfont.
When Amedee Ozenfant was Writing
Journey Through Life (Gollancz; F. W.
Preece, Ltd.) a bee flew in the window.
Then he saw that it was a blowfly, and
he began to ponder about the popularity
of bees and the unpopularity of blow-
flies. “We like the creature of the
hives,” he decided, “because she is, like
us, a social being and a geometer. The
blowfly revels in the shapeless, and we
love form.”
M. Ozenfant, liking bees because they
are Communists and can build honey-
combs, is obviously “Left”; the odd
criticism of the blowfly indicates that
he’s an artist and that his brow is very,
very high. Journey Through Life is a
diary he kept from 1931 to 1934 while
he was painting a magnum opus called
“Life” which was subsequently bought
by the French Government. The book is
both an account of the difficulties he
surmounted while painting the work and
of his thoughts and adventures, personal,
political and philosophical.
Most of the subjects on which he re-
flects—Corot, Plato, Hitler and Stalin —
are more interesting than bees and blow-
flies, but it’s a weird book. One minute
he is giving a fascinating description of
the Parthenon (there are some travel
chapters) and the next he is reflecting
on a newspaper report of a small boy at
Bournemouth who, through bouncing
too energetically on his mattress,
bounced out of a second-floor window.
He introduces the medley with the
"statement, “Recollections are often
written too late, when memory has begun
to weaken. This book is the first in-
stalment of my memoirs; four years of
life, still hot.” But the politics of
1934 (“Hitler says he will destroy
Marxism”) aren’t very hot news in 1939.
And though the shapelessness of hap-
hazard diarising has its attractions, M.
Ozenfant should have remembered that
readers like form, and the writer as well
as the bee should be a social being and a
geometer.
Case Against Pacifism.
By ignoring the fact that his doctrine
of non-violence is not practicable in ordi-
nary communal life (there must be police-
men, and policemen must be backed by
force), and that any single nation which
tried to practise it in international rela-
tionships would simply be committing
suicide, Aldous Huxley was able to give
his Ends and Means an appearance of
logic and consistency. C. E. M. Joad,
less remote than Huxley, tries to make
the pacifist position square with logic in
his Guide to Modern Wickedness (Faber :
F. W. Preece, Ltd.) but doesn’t succeed.
Huxley very carefully avoided saying
what he would do if he met with a mad
dog. Joad faces the animal:
For my part I would not hesitate to use
force to restrain a mad dog or a mad man.
Again, if I saw a man proposing to lay
a bomb on the railway line just as the train
was due to arrive, and had no other
means of stopping him, I should not hesi-
tate to shoot him.
Logic leads him to the further state-
ment :
As with individuals, so with nations. A
mad-dog nation can no more be permitted
to hold to ransom the comity of civilised
peoples than the burglar or the thug can
be allowed to hold to ransom the civilised
activities of peaceful men.
This is supposed to be —somehow—an
argument for pacifism. And having
proved that the theory of pacifism is illo-
gical, Joad also discusses the practical
application, first denying the practicability
of “non-attachment”:
I can no longer dissociate myself from
the feelings of the community to which I
belong. Moreover, I, like most of my
friends, believe that Fascism is a totally
horrible thing, and I cannot be wholly
uninfluenced by the common conviction
that, sooner or later, we must stand against
it and seek to overthrow it.
In a war against Hitler, says Joad, he
would offer his services to the nation in
any capacity except that of a soldier.
The most suitable post for him seems to
be that of propagandist against pacifism.
He even admits the inconsistency of help-
ing the nation but refusing to fight:
The pacifist cannot be logical in this
matter without ceasing to exist, since by
his performance of the acts necessary to
existence, by eating and drinking, by buy-
ing and selling, by travelling and rent-pay-
ing and rate-paying and tax-paying, he is
assisting the community in the perform-
ance of its functions. He cannot, it may
be said, escape responsibility for actions
which the community takes.
In a final burst of his admirable in-
consistency, Mr. Joad says that the
example of practically defenceless States
such as Denmark proves that a country
which refuses to arm itself needn’t fear
invasion. And a few pages further on
he says that the inadequate defences of
Australia constitute a menace to the
peace of the world.
Joad is a pacifist in that he loathes
war, but he has proved very satisfactorily
that an intellectual can’t practise pacifism
in the existing circumstances. The mix-
ture of wishful nonsense and unwilling
logic in his war chapters makes interest-
ing reading, for he writes with vigor and
humor, and the earlier sections in which
he beseeches a wicked world to recog-
nise Platonic “values,” ultimate and
objective, are consistent as well as
pleasant.
Chinese Playwright
In a preface to S. I. Hsiung’s The
Professor from Peking (Methuen ; Angus
and Robertson), Lord Dunsany admits
that he has no idea whether it’s an essay
in imaginative drama—defined as the
kind that leads an audience by means of
imagination to times and regions remote,
and there shows it life and truth, but
shows these things purified, or at any rate
separated, from all such inessentials as
modern dress, modern phrases, and in-
deed all our customs; the kind Lord
Dunsany himself prefers, and writes —or
a play of the realistic kind which aims at
presenting life exactly as the audience
knows it.
Lord Dunsany’s problem would seem
to be easily solved. It could be either, de-
pending on the stage presentation. In
the first reading it unfolds as a crude
melodrama of modern Chinese political
intrigue, one act set at the end of the
1914-18 war in Europe, the next in 1927,
the last in 1937, with an added scene to
indicate the Japanese invasion, with the
Professor’s son in a Chinese Air Force
uniform and the Professor’s daughter a
nurse.
The Professor, introduced in the first
place as a bookworm of the stock English
theatrical tradition, changes marvellously
later, till at the end he’s a powerful and
dynamic patriot. His wife, who leaves
him in the first act —when he won’t share
his political intentions with her, and when
two of his children of a former marriage
whom she has never heard of suddenly
return to the family hearth—is sub-
sequently present, disguised as a servant
(unrecognised!), to save him from an
assassin’s bullets, stopping them herself.
There are other incidents of pure melo-
drama. The final curtain comes down
on father, son and daughter spouting
patriotic heroics which the late Bland
Holt would have considered splendid
theatre. Yet despite that ending and the
general melodramatic structure of the
play, the retrospective notion persists
that it is really two plays, depending on
the artistic talent available for the per-
formance. Done as a melodrama, it
would be dreadful; presented as a theatri-
cal curiosity of porcelain delicacy it could
be exquisite.
Reversing the practice of Shaw, the
author puts his extensive explanation at
the end, calling it an “Afterthought.” It
is best read first. An autobiographical
note, mostly on the author’s earlier
publishing and producing experiences in
London, it provides a helpful idea of his
character and dramatic intentions. An
earlier play of his, “Lady Precious
Stream,” ran for some three years in
London, and has been translated into
nearly all languages. He explains that he
wants “the public of the West, after
knowing something of the theatre of our
old school, to have now a glimpse of our
modern drama and modern life.”
American Poetess.
Edna St. Vincent Millay, from
America, is known as one of the most
skilful contemporary interpreters of the
sonnet form and also for her control of
the colloquial style of verse-writing that
sprang from Whitman, was exploited by
Robert Frost and others, and was brought
to perfection by her in a poem about
death with the refrain “But I am not
resigned.” Her new book, Huntsman,
What Quarry ? (Hamish Hamilton;
F. W. Preece, Ltd.), is as technically adept
as her earlier work, but she has little
to say that she has not already said.
Nearest to the noble “I am not re-
signed” poem is “Lines Written in Re-
capitulation” :
I could not bring this splendid world nor any
trading beast
In charge ot it. to defer, no, not to give ear,
not in the least
Appearance to my handsome prophecies, which
here I ponder and put by.
I have learned to .fail. And I have had my
say.
Yet shall I sing until my voice crack (this
being my leisure, this my holiday)
That man was a special thing and no com-
modity, a thing improper to be sold.
She has apparently spent her holiday
on a tour of Europe. The poems are
introduced by a “Ballad of Chaldon
Down” dedicated to Llewelyn Powys,
after which comes a sonnet sequence
about the Spanish war. Most of the Eng-
lish poets who went to Spain stressed
the ideological aspects of the struggle or
else reported horrors for the purposes of
propaganda. Miss St. Millay remains an
individualist, describes her personal, not
her political, emotions:
We were attacked —what of it? —we could go
And lie in hiding; we were free to run
From Death!—and this will not again be so.
Now he is free from nothing: man and gun
Have spat into his face; the mouth I know
In memory, sleeps defiled by everyone.
It is good verse. There is a “literary”
feeling about it, but it is no more literary
than the poems of the English versifiers
who rushed over to Spain to be har-
rowed and duly were harrowed.


e
o<^ i
/
SUXjI?
★ Watch your weight with a
"BORG”
Automatic Bathroom SCALE
It is as important for an athlete to watch his weight every
day as it is for him to watch his diet. By the one he can
regulate the other. It is just as important that you should
watch your weight, and, if necessary, regulate it by
correct dieting during the summer months. Keep your
"Borg" in your bathroom, and after your morning bath,
when you have thoroughly dried yourself with a vigorous
towelling, step on the scales and see what you weigh—
and govern yourself accordingly.
WEIGHS To 18 STONE By 1 lb.
Finished in Green, Ivory or Black Enamel
You are assured of accuracy with this compact weighing scale, carefully constructed and handsomely
ivory or black enamel, with coloured rubber top. Obtainable only at Anthony Horderns'. PRICE, each
• Scale Section—Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Free delivery only within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
finished in green,
326
• GEORGE
ZAHARIAS
George Zaharias, world
famous wrestler and chal-
lenger for the World's
Heavyweight Wrestling
Championship, tests the
accuracy and strength of
this "Borg" Scale. He
weighs about 17 stone,
and was one of the
heaviest wrestlers to visit
Australia. He tested the
"Borg" thoroughly and
found it reliable and
strong.
'Phone M 2401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PUCES
Box 2712 C, G.P.O,
SYDNEY


Robbie Nearly Brings Rumpelmayer a Wife
REACHING
OUT FOR
ROMANCE
by J. B. BLAIR
Characters, Historical and Contemporary ,
Drawn by Unk White.
DESPITE Eddie Rumpelmayer’s boneheaded
refusal to court any kind of publicity for his
Reacher-Outer-Bringer-Backer, the exploits of
the invention could not entirely escape the
public eye, and after its first few journeys into the
past he had many appeals for its assistance.
For instance, there was the old lady who had lost
her Pekinese dog.
“If you’d only try,” she sobbed. “I’d know little
Chi-chi’s bark anywhere.”
With difficulty we convinced her that her troubles
were beyond our solving. She followed a young
woman who wanted divorce evidence against her hus-
band, and after she had gone Rumpy said, “I’ve given
up helping people. I’m going to use Robbie solely for
my own purposes. I’m going to write a book —Famous
Last Words. I’m going to listen in to the deathbeds
of the great ones of history. You’d be surprised at
some of the things I’ve found out already.”
I MAGINE my surprise, therefore, when about a week
1 later he summoned me to Aunt Lucy’s and an-
nounced that he had a job on hand for the Reacher-
Outer.
“We’re going to give a demonstration to the
Straitlace Academy,” he informed me. “A kind of
history lesson.”
“That’s fine,” I said. “So you think there’s some-
thing in my idea after all?”
He looked puzzled. “Your idea?” he asked.
“Yes. Didn’t I suggest getting the Education
Department to take it up? I still think it’d be better
for you to go to them, but if you’ve already arranged
with this giggle-school I suppose that’s better than
nothing.”
“Straitlace Academy is a seminary for young
ladies,” he replied rather stiffly.
“Well, I suppose that’s all right, though there’d
be more money in it the other way.”
Rumpy looked rather hurt at that. “Can’t you
keep your mind off money? How many times must I
tell you that Robbie is not to be used for sordid gain?”
I was staggered. I had assumed that some
commonsense had at last forced its way through his
thick scientific skull and that he was going to put the
Reacher-Outer to its logical use —that of laying the
foundations of our joint fortunes.
“You don’t mean to say you’re going to do this
for nothing?”
“Certainly!”
“But I thought you said you’d given up helping
people.”
“Well, ordinarily speaking, I have, but this is dif-
ferent. Miss Dibblefork asked me to give a little
demonstration to her history class, and I agreed. Miss
Dibblefork is an old friend of mine.”
“Well, of all the mugs! You make up your mind
not to waste your time and then the first time a
spindle-shanked old bluestocking comes along you”
Rumpelmayer leapt to his feet. “You’ll take that
back,” he said in tones that implied that if I didn’t
he’d knock me out of reach even of the Reacher-Outer.
“Take what back?”
“‘Spindle-shanked’! Miss Dibblefork is not
spindle-shanked. Miss Dibblefork is a very old friend
of mine. She is a good and noble woman, doing a
good and noble task. When she asked me to do this
little favor for her I had not the slightest hesitation
in accepting. I feel it a privilege to”
“All right,” I said. “When is the good and noble
task scheduled for performance?”
“I promised we’d do it for her next week. Tues-
day. I’ve invited Miss Dibblefork around to-day for
a little demonstration. She should be here any moment
now.”
“Good Lord! You won’t need me. I’ll be get-
ting along.”
“No, don’t go. You can help me. And, besides,
I want you to meet Al—er —Miss Dibblefork.”
The door opened add Aunt Lucy came in. “Miss
Dibblefork has called to see you,” she announced.
I’ve left her in the parlor. I’m not going to have
you bringing ladies into this dirty old playroom.”
“Bring her out here, please, Aunt,” said Rumpy.
“She wants to see the Reacher-Outer.”
“Nonsense! She’s not interested in your silly old
toys. Come and talk to her in the drawing-room.
I’ll run up some scones in half a jiffy while you show
her your photo, album.”
She walked out, with Rumpelmayer tailing close
on her heels. A few moments later he returned ac-
companied by his visitor. He beamed at me as they
entered.
“Althea,” he said, “I want you to meet my fellow-
worker.” He turned to me. “This is Miss Dibblefork,
old chap. She’s very interested in our work, and I’ve
told her all about you.”
Miss Dibblefork graced me with a smile that sent
shivers down my spine. She was the schoolmistress
type all right. Rawboned and angular, with piercing
eyes that even the tiniest error in the most junior
girl’s copybook could not hope to avoid, and a large
nose suggesting irresistibly a power to smell out the
culprit in the most deep-laid scheme for work-dodging
ever conceived by schoolgirl mind.
Not, of course, that all schoolmistresses possess
these features, but I’ll guarantee that if you
were to line up Miss Dibblefork with six women
doctors, four typists, a washerwoman, three usherettes,
a woman solicitor, five shopgirls, a masseuse, two bar-
maids and a woman jockey and then called upon
twenty schoolgirls from twenty different countries to
pick out the schoolmistress, twenty hands would have
pointed instantly to Miss Dibblefork.
“So you are Edward’s collaborator?” she asked.
“Hardly that,” I answered. “He’s the brains of
the show. I’m only the publicity man.”
“Edward has been telling me of his invention. It
sounds almost incredible, although in these times one
is so accustomed to the marvels that science brings to
one’s everyday life that one is justified in believing
almost anything, isn’t one?”
I agreed that one was, and added that in the case
of the Reacher-Outer any number of people would be
justified in believing in it as it was definitely the wonder
of the age. “Don’t you believe him, Althea,” said
Eddie coyly. “It’s really quite a
simple thing. Just the logical applica-
tion of well-known theory. See now,
this is the spatial-positioner and this
the temporal-eliminator. The two to-
gether embody the whole secret of
the invention. The rest”
“Just a moment till
I get my notebook,”
said Miss Dibblefork,
fumbling in her bag.
JZ7OR the next few minutes Eddie revelled in his
*■ explanation of the intricacies of Robbie, and Miss
Dibblefork conscientiously filled page after page of
her notebook.
I stood by meditating. Mingled with the techni-
cal phraseology of the discussion were rather too
many Altheas and Edwards to please me. Poor old
Rumpelmayer, master mind of science, was plainly in
love, and instead of falling for a decent, honest bar-
maid he was allowing himself to be snared by this
large-nosed chalkie. I found it hard to take.
He was stringing the lecture out as long as pos-
sible, but at last he decided it was time for the demon-
stration.
“Where’s our book of space-time equivalents?”
he asked.
We had listed the dial numerals for a lot of the
more common historical speeches we had located —
things like “Up, Guards, and at ’em,” “England ex-
pects” and “Doctor Livingstone, I presume.” And
Eddie had fixed the dials on his temporal-eliminator
so that they revolved at a fixed rate each day, thus
automatically adjusting themselves to the changing
positions of the sound waves rushing away through
space.
I found Eddie the book, and he asked Miss
Dibblefork to take her pick. She chose the execution
of Marie Antoinette, and within a few minutes we
were listening to the sounds of Paris, 1792.
“Incroyable!” exclaimed Miss Dibblefork.
“What would you like next?” asked Rumpy after
the knife had fallen, followed immediately by a slight
thud.
“Really, Edward! Have you no feelings at all?”
said Althea, wiping her eyes. “I couldn’t bear to hear
anything else after that.”
“Why, that’s nothing, Miss Dibblefork,” I said.
“You ought to hear the St. Bartholomew Massacre
or the Black Hole of Calcutta. They are gruesome.”
She gave me a look of disgust. “Horrible!” she
said.
Rumpelmayer looked sympathetic. “Shall I run
this scene through again?” he asked as though he was
demonstrating a talkie to a prospective buyer.
“No! No! I simply couldn’t bear to think of
the poor girl going through it all over again just for
me.”
Tuesday brought Miss Dibble-
fork and the Straitlace girls.
At first there was some mix-
up with the programm e; then
Eddie managed to get back
on the right track with the
Elizabeth and Essex conver-
sation.


I began to see through the schoolma’am’s plan,
Just the old feminine trick of turning on the tender-
hearted stuff in order to rouse the protective instincts
of the male.
• Eddie fell for it. “Sorry, Althea,” he apologised.
“I should have warned you it’d be gruesome. What
a callous brute I am. You must let me get you some-
thing bright to cheer you up.”
“Just as you please, Edward.”
“I know! One of those old music-hall pro-
grammes we used for Partiman! ”
“Nothing vulgar, I hope, Edward?”
“No! Well, ofccourser. Perhaps—l’ve got
it! Just the thing! The original performance of‘The
Mikado.’ ”
Half an hour of Gilbert and Sullivan served to
soothe Miss Dibblefork’s nerves, and she was ready
to get on with the serious business of choosing a pro-
gramme for the demonstration we were to give to
her girls.
Instructive, educational and moral were the guid-
ing principles she laid down regarding the incidents to
be selected, and it took us quite a long time to choose
the programme. Miss Dibblefork left nothing to
chance and insisted on hearing every word.
Item after item she rejected. This was too blood-
thirsty; that too suggestive. The girls might get a
wrong idea of history if they heard so-and-so ; they
were scarcely old enough to appreciate such-and-such.
Eddie and I were keen to include at least one sea-
fight, but it was a hard struggle to get it past the
censor. Trafalgar she ruled out because, being one
of the “Kismet, Hardy” school of thought, she simply
wouldn’t believe the evidence of her own ears. Copen-
hagen nearly got by. Miss Dibblefork was quite ex-
cited when the officer read out Admiral Hyde Parker’s
famous notice to quit, but then Nelson spoilt every-
thing by getting profane. “I’m damned if I see it,”
he said. Miss Dibblefork shuddered.
Rumpy was getting desperate. “We’d better try
the Battle of the Nile,” he said.
We tuned in to Egypt 1798 and soon brought back
the battle. By sticking patiently to Nelson’s flagship
we were, so to speak, among those present when he
received the wound which resulted in the loss of his
arm (according to Rumpelmayer) or his eye (accord-
ing to Miss Dibblefork).
“Include that in the programme,” said Miss
Dibblefork excitedly. “It’s splendid from a historical
point of view, and it’ll give the girls an additional in-
terest in their first-aid classes.”
So in it went.
“Now, what about Cromwell?” asked Althea. “I’d
like to have him dismissing Parliament.”
A little groping about in space recaptured the
“Take away that bauble!” incident, and we followed
it up with Henry VIII. quarrelling with Cardinal
Wolsey. Jumping into the next century again we
attended the festivities celebrating the Restoration
of Charles 11., and then, by good luck more than any-
thing else, we chanced upon Essex reporting to Queen
Elizabeth on the condition of things in Ireland.
“Now, you’re sure you’ve noted all those down
carefully, Edward?” asked Miss Dibblefork as Aunt
Lucy for the fourth time beseeched us to bring our
visitor into the drawing-room to try her scones.
“Yes. They’re all on the list,” answered Eddie.
He handed me the book. “You might copy ’em
out later,” he said.
A FTER tea, when Aunt Lucy had taken Miss Dibble-
** fork into the garden to cut her a few hydrangeas
(“I just adore them”), Rumpy turned to me.
“Isn’t she marvellous?”
“Who? Your aunt?”
“No! Althea!”
“She seems very clever,” I admitted grudgingly.
“Clever, yes. But not only that. She’s so
spiritual, so understanding, so—er”
“Eddie,” I said. “You’re not going to tell me
you’ve fallen in love?”
“And if I have,” he replied, “is that anything to
be ashamed of? Of course you wouldn’t understand,
but this is such a thing as comes to few men. Genuine
passion, pure and unsullied. When I think of Althea
I feel I want to be a better man ; I want to do some-
thing to make me worthy of her. It’s no use trying to
explain to you. You wouldn’t understand. The point
is that this is my chance to do something for Althea.
This demonstration to her class—she’ll appreciate that
no end.”
Shortly afterwards he left to escort Miss Dibble-
fork home. He was carrying the hydrangeas.
I wandered disconsolately into the workroom and
sat down to copy out the space-time equivalents for
the Straitlace girls’ lecture. I was feeling pretty upset
over Rumpy’s confession. If the Dibblefork woman
really snared him I could see that I wouldn’t remain
in the family circle for long.
And it wasn’t only myself I was thinking of.
Rumpelmayer might be a mug in many ways, but he
deserved a better fate than to become the pram-pusher
for that long-nosed chalkie. It was up to me to save
him, but how?
Then came the inspiration. I started searching
feverishly through the space-time book.
'“TUESDAY afternoon arrived, and with it Miss
1 Dibblefork and the Straitlace girls. There seemed
to be hundreds of them —thin girls, fat girls, tall girls,
short girls, pimply, freckled girls, bobbed, plaited,
curly-headed girls, snub-nosed, knock-kneed and
gawky girls. At least that’s how they impressed me.
There were probably some good-looking, intelligent,
well-mannered girls among them —thinking of it dis-
passionately, there must have been —but I didn’t notice
any at the time.
“Girls, this is Mr. Rumpelmayer,” announced
Miss Dibblefork.
Eddie blushed and bowed as the girls gaped and
gawked at him. I didn’t get a mention, thank good-
ness.
“Now, girls,” said Miss Dibblefork. “We are
here to-day to ”
You can imagine the rest. When she had fin-
ished, Rumpy gave a brief lecture on the principles of
the Reacher-Outer-Bringer-Backer, then asked me for
the list. I handed it to him. I was feeling a bit ner-
vous and my hand trembled a little, but Eddie was
too much torn between the conflicting emotions of em-
barrassment at the combined goggling and giggling of
the history class and pride at being able to help
Althea that he didn’t notice anything.
“I think we’ll have Cromwell first,” said Miss
Dibblefork.
“Certainly,” agreed Eddie, and he made the neces-
sary adjustments to the Reacher-Outer arid switched
it on.
“You will remember, girls, the famous act of
Oliver Cromwell in dismissing the Rump Parliament,”
said Althea.
“Yes, Miss Dibblefork.”
“Well, thanks to Mr. Rumpelmayer, you’ll now
hear the actual happening.”
The Cromwell episode was never one that im-
pressed me much, but the girls lapped it up. Eddie
switched off shortly after Cromwell had remarked
“Take away that bauble.”
“Any questions?” asked Miss Dibblefork.
“Please, miss, did he mean the South Sea Bubble?”
asked one miss, to be treated with withering scorn by
her teacher and howls of derision by her classmates.
The rest, deterred by her example, asked no questions.
“We shall now have Lord Nelson at the Battle of
the Nile,” announced Miss Dibblefork.
“Couldn’t we have King Charles’s execution?”
beseeched one bright lass, the eyes of the others
sparkling at the suggestion.
“Nelson at the Battle of the Nile!” repeated
Althea emphatically. “Please, Edward.”
Edward consulted the list and got to work. Pres-
ently we heard voices from the past.
“Two sailors talking,” explained Rumpy. “Must
be a little bit earlier than when we tuned in last time.
Can’t hear any battle noises.”
“Hush,” said Althea.
“Better hurry up there. ’ls gig is just
a-coming alongside.”
“That’s all right, cully. I’ve bin lookin’
arter the admiral f’r five years now and I
just about knows ’ow to ’andle ’im. You git
along to y’r own quarters while I fixes up ’is
wittles.”
“All right, matey. Don’t get narked.”
Comparative silence followed. Footsteps about
the cabin and a slight clatter of dishes. Then:
“Well, my dear, here we are once more,
safe and sound. Higgins, set a place for Lady
Hamilton, and, Higgins, fetch me a bottle of
wine.”
“Yes, your Lordship.”
“Emma, darling! It seems an age since
we were alone together.”
“Darling, it is an age.”
“Edward! Switch that off! commanded Miss
Dibblefork.
Edward did so. “I can’t make it out,” he mur-
mured.
“Lady Hamilton was never at the Battle of the
Nile,” said Althea.
“No, of course not. But our calculations”
“Must be wrong. That meeting couldn’t have
happened anywhere but at Naples.”
Rumpy was thinking hard. “That’s right. It was
Naples. Come to think of it, I’ve had that scene be-
fore. Higgins fetches back the wine and they”
“We’ve heard enough about that already. How
do you account for the mix-up?”
Eddie turned on me. “You must have made a
mistake in copying that list,” he complained. “Give
me the space-time book.”
Meantime the girls were giving a good imitation
of a dress-circle crowd chatting in a theatre foyer at
the end of the first act.
“Fancy hearing Lady Hamilton herself!”
“The'Divine Lady!”
“Wasn’t she just marvellous the way she said
‘Darling’?”
Despite my protests Rumpelmayer checked up,
and of course I had to be all apologetic about my
foolish blunder. I was feeling pretty sore that it had
been discovered so soon. I had had much better
things in store. For the Cardinal Wolsey episode I
had substituted quite a juicy little scene featuring
Anne Boleyn, and instead of the rejoicings of London
at the coronation of Charles 11. I had intended to
peek in at a semi-public quarrel between Lady Castle-
maine and Nell Gwynne.
“Your list seems all wrong,” said Eddie. “We’ll
have to scrap it.”
Miss Dibblefork glared at me, but I fancied I
detected a glow of approval on several of the less
objectionable of the juvenile faces.
Rumpy footled around for a while and gave them
Lincoln’s Gettysburg address and the opening of the
Federal Parliament House at Canberra. Neither event
seemed to stir them as much as Lady Hamilton’s brief
contribution had done. Then Eddie came across the
rough sheet he had dotted his calculations down on a
few days previously.
“Here are the figures!” he said. “We can have
the programme, after all.”
“There’s not much time,” put in Althea, more
to show her authority than for anything else. “Just
one last example, please.”
“Right,” agreed Rumpy. “What about Queen
Elizabeth?”
“That should do. Now, girls, as you know, Queen
Elizabeth came to the throne in 1558. She wa5....”
While this lecture was in progress Rumpy was
manipulating the dials of the Reacher-Outer, and a
few minutes later we were listening to the Elizabeth
and Essex conversation which we had previously
brought back for Althea’s benefit.
“Queen Elizabeth and the Earl of Essex,” Miss
Dibblefork announced to her class.
Their faces brightened perceptibly.
“Essex is reporting on the state of Ireland,” she
added.
Their faces fell.
I sympathised with them. Of all the Elizabeth
and Essex chats that might have been recaptured,
the Reacher-Outer had to bring back a solemn dis-
cussion on Ireland.
Elizabeth wasn’t saying much. Essex plodded
on with facts and figures about Ireland. He dealt
with rebels, soldiers, taxes, crops and cattle. It
seemed he would never stop. Miss Dibblefork ap-
peared to be interested, but the girls were plainly
bored. Rumpy looked bored and I felt bored. And
Elizabeth apparently shared our feelings, for she
broke in on the discourse at length:
“Lud ! Robert, you can be a dull fellow at
times. Enough of Ireland! Put out the light
and we’ll finish the discussion in the morning.”
Silence followed, both in the Queen’s palace and
Rumpelmayer’s workshop, but the peace of the latter
place was broken a fraction of a second later.
“Girls!” commanded Miss Dibblefork. “Right
turn! Quick march! Left, left, left, right, left”
“Althea!” cried Rumpelmeyer, switching off the
Reacher-Outer and moving towards Miss Dibblefork.
As the last two girls heeled-and-toed it out of the
room Miss Dibblefork turned at bay. “If you and
your low friend cannot find a better use for your
invention than muckraking, Edward, I hope you will
in future choose a more suitable audience than a class
of innocent girls.”
“We didn’t mean anything. That was” -
“And I think you might at least let a great
woman like Queen Elizabeth rest in peace.”
Rumpy broke in eagerly. “But we were going to.
Didn’t you hear her say she was tired?”
Miss Dibblefork hurried after her girls without
replying.
“That’s settled it now,” said Rumpy. “She’ll
never speak to me again.”
“Why worry about that?” I answered. “Why,
man, you’ve got the voices of all the famous women of
history at your call.”
“There’s something in that,” agreed Eddie. “I
wonder what Helen of Troy’s voice sounded like?”
And he moved towards the Reacher-Outer.
Laughter at Night.
He laughed, and all around the room
The shadows broke like pools of water;
The candle on its plinth of gloom
Trembled with joy, and lit his laughter.
The doorway swam with listening faces,
The empty house pricked spidered ears,
And out of secret lurking-places
Crawled off a score of dead folks’ fears.
Night in the window woke, and stood
One pace away beyond the glass;
The death-watch counting in the wood
Let many silent seconds pass,
And on the floor the emptied bottle
Echoed the sound within its shell,
The goblet chimed a whining rattle
Soft as the echo of a bell.
After the laughter silence slept
Much as before. The faces vanished,
The candle dozed, the grey fears crept
Back.
In the glass he stared, astonished.
N.S.W.
Kenneth Mackenzie.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
/f oyd Hihe tfWie mellmncMmidJmiqnd
The Last of the “Charleys.”
The London Police.
A Typical London Policeman, 1939.
Few, if indeed any, travellers who visit London are not acquainted with the splendid force which for convenience sake shall be .
designated “The London Police.” There is no similar force in the world quite its equal, and in many respects, too. The fame of the
London policeman as guide, philosopher and friend to all requiring his assistance has extended to the four quarters of the earth. Here
is a sort of corps d’elite, of which Londoners are justly proud, and which peoples of all lands regard with admiration and reverence.
Prior to 1829, when Sir Robert Peel took up the great reform embodied in what was known as “the foundation of London’s police,”
compared with the guardians of law and order to-day, such body, or bodies, owing to divided control, as existed were a travesty,
though the brothers Fielding had earlier begun the work of reform. Little more than a century ago the machinery, if such it could be
called, for policing London was crude and cumbersome. The “Charleys,” as “guardians of the law” were termed, untrained and
generally decrepit old men, suggest to modern ideas something smacking strongly of comic opera. But this was at that almost remote
period equally recognised. In 1827 a skit on the parish police was published, showing how little they had changed since Shakespeare’s
time. The skit opened with this mock advertisement:
“WANTED!
A hundred thousand men for the London Watchman s Company. None need apply
that have not attained the age of 60, 70, 80 or 90 years; blind with one eye and seeing
very little with the other; crippled with one or both legs; deaf as a post; whose speed
will not keep pace with a snail and the strength of whose arm would not be able to
arrest an old washerwoman of fourscore returning from a hard day s fag at the wash tub.
On regarding the force to-day, some idea of the extent of the gulf which has been bridged in barely over a hundred years is brought home.
i


HIS IMPERIAL MAJESTY ISSUES ANOTHER DECREE.
“Now bring me Finland!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252158; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (/4ms.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings {opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
COMMUNISM’S BIG CHANCE.
However this war is to proceed or pan out, the mere
fact of its having been started has raised fresh hope
in one quarter where hope had almost died. After
the Comintern’s 20 years of endeavor, from head-
quarters in Moscow, to foment risings and revolu-
tions in most parts of the world, Communists and
their cowardly cult —the performance in Poland is
completely in character with it —had stood beaten and
discredited.
In Spain—where, with the support of French
Communists, British and Australian Parlor Pinks and
a surprising number of newspapers and radio oracles,
the Comintern achieved its greatest success in
slaughter and suffered its heaviest defeat —in Germany,
Portugal, Hungary, Finland, China and elsewhere, the
Comintern had at one time or another succeeded in
directly stirring up risings or revolutions. In all its
efforts it had been beaten, though not without leaving
a trail of murder and destruction.
No country anywhere, so long as peace, or even
comparative peace, lasted, could be brought to ex-
change its system of government, however unsatis-
factory, for so patently vicious a cult, especially with
the example on view of its natural development in
Russia into the most murderous of all dictatorships.
Rebuffed on all fronts, the Comintern’s position when
this curious war broke out was lower than at any time
since it was formed in 1919 to carry out its avowed
programme of world revolution. Even now it is at
much the same low ebb everywhere as it is in Aus-
tralia, where, over the past month, Communists have
had to do a somersaulting clown act that has made
even that of professors seem dignified. They have
been unusually slow in taking the direction given out
by Molotov:-
The pact with Germany should ensure us new
possibilities of increasing our strength and consolidating
our positions, and further growth in the influence of
the Soviet Union on international developments.
The last clause is the direction to all “good” Com-
munists everywhere. They are to see in this war, not
merely what everybody can plainly see —the Mighty
Soviet in the noble act of sharing the plunder and
cutting the throats of any disarmed resisters, after
Germans had done the fighting—but the long-
awaited opportunity of furthering “the influence of
the Soviet Union on international developments.” In
other words, revival and renewed hope for the Comin-
tern’s programme of world revolution, plus Russian
imperialism. For that hope to be realised the war
must go on. If it does, whatever the final outcome,
it must bring ruin and wastage, terrible loss of life
and misery.
That is the ground—the only ground—in which
Communism can hope to spread. With the certainty
that this war, as it drags on, must bring about those
conditions, the Communists’ hopes will go on rising.
Already they have the hope of their cult at last spread-
ing out till it reaches from Siberia to Wales. Their
programme of world revolution, despite its setbacks,
has been in abeyance only; it has never been aban-
doned. Discredited and defeated wherever it had so
far been tried out, it has remained the leading plank
of Comintern policy ; schools for international revolu-
tion have carried on all through in Moscow; the cult
remains by far the most important of the Soviet’s
potential exports, as Hitler, having chosen between
the devil and oblivion, may yet see demonstrated—
not that there is much apparent difference between
a Nazism that has moved somewhat towards the Left
and a Communism evolved into a ruthless dictator-
ship.
A quickly victorious Germany could without
question prevent that happening to itself. The Mighty
Soviet War Machine is seen at its mightiest in the
looting and throat-cutting after the fighting had been
done in Poland, and against such Powers as Estonia:
its fighting chance against its temporary strange bed-
fellow would be Buckley’s. But a beaten Germany,
or even a Germany wasted by a long war, would be
ideal ground for the Communist growth.
Germany was most fertile ground for the cult
after the last war, when military defeat and blockade
had broken the resistance power of the people. Those
are the miserable conditions in which it flourishes.
In Germany that time it and the murderous civil strife
that always accompanies it were directly responsible
for Nazism.
Even better ground would be a beaten France, or
even a similarly wasted France. It is evident from the
little that has come through in cables that the Com-
munists there, incapable of the Comintern virtue of
patience, have already caused considerable trouble.
Forty Communist Deputies have been arrested—a
staggering total; most significant regarding what has
been going on in the country which went within an
ace of collapsing in the third year of the last war
through revolution. It has been in France that the
Comintern has had its greatest success in the pro-
gramme of spreading its alien cult in other countries.
Over the past year France has seen a certain swing
away from Communism, after being just about ruined
and rendered hopelessly defenceless by Popular Front
government, but before that the growth of the cult
there must have been satisfactory enough even for
Moscow.
At the elections in 1932 the French Communists
secured 784,036 votes ; in 1936 they secured 1,495,503.
Membership of the French Communist party mean-
while rose from 86,902 to 341,000. That, with 73
Communist Deputies, was the position little more than
a year ago. The plain fact is that Communism is still
strong and already troublesome in France. In a
France wasted by the sort of war this must be if it
develops into an all-in go, Communism would have a
better chance of establishing its cult than in any other
country outside Russia. It would not need to be a de-
feated France —a wasted and war-weary France would
be ideal.
In England, for the moment, Communists and
their designs are as discredited as Mosley’s Fascists;
but there, too, their hopes have risen. There, as else-
where, the Communists’ hope is that the war will be
long and ruinous. It represents the greatest chance
that has ever come their way. A defeated or a wasted
Germany would open the way through to the Rhine ;
a wasted France would see it to the Channel; a wasted
England would see it to the West Coast.
That is the alluring hope of the Communist
to-day. It is an ambitious hope, but the Comintern is
nothing if not ambitious, and there is to-day more
justification for the dream than ever before. The job
in hand is to put a stop to Hitler’s avaricious ambi-
tions ; but there are these other ambitions that should
not be overlooked while the job is being done. Other-
wise this is going to be a war fought for the benefit
of Communism.
Wool, Muddle and Extravagance.
The Australian Government’s arrangements for mar-
keting produce during the war are of a piece with
its other war-time arrangements. Woolgrowers have
special reason for dissatisfaction.
During the crisis of September, 1938, it was
pointed out to Mr. Lyons that woolgrowers were
anxious to know how their vitally important industry
would fare if war came. The reply was that they
had no occasion to worry; schemes had already been
formulated, and the wool situation would be dealt
with immediately hostilities began. The present posi-
tion shows few signs of preliminary organisation or
even of careful thought.
Yet the Government and the trade had Great
War experience and the subsequent proceedings of
Bawra to guide them. The appraisement system was
already familiar, and mistakes made in those years
were gradually weeded out by trial and error. The
main new factors to be dealt with are a substantial
increase in the amount of wool to be appraised and
carried, a considerable multiplication of wool-dealing
firms and a wider market.
The wool-selling season of 1939-40 was due to
open on August 28. Half an hour before the time
fixed for the first sale in Sydney postponement was
decided on. Within a week it was known that the
British Government would buy all wool at a fixed
average price or prices. Three weeks of mysterious
conclaves in Melbourne and elsewhere produced a
series of State wool committees to organise the scheme
and appraise the wool.
The N. S. Wales committee is typical. Buyers
have one representative: G. L. O. Dewez, the Vic-
torian-born head of a woolbroking and export firm —
he is chairman. Growers have two representatives:
E. L. Killen, chairman of the N.S.W. Graziers, and
E. M. Hamblin, of the Farmers and Settlers. Manu-
facturers have one man, A. C. Wilkinson; scourers
and fellmongers another, W. H. Whiddon, M.L.C.
Behind the committee stands an army of deputy
chairmen, assistants, technical bodies and appraisers
whose names read like a census of the Tower of
Babel. They include men of all nationalities engaged
in the wool business. This is only right; it is neces-
sary to have men conversant with all the complica-
tions of wool selection, and also to keep those engaged
in the trade in touch with the market against the return
of normal times. The broad plan of organisation is
satisfactory ; its detail and application to the realities
of the situation are not.
Even the heartiest advocate of the measures taken
would be hard put to it to answer a charge of extrava-
gance in the engagement of personnel and payment of
salaries, even if he could defend the secrecy of opera-
tion thus far practised.
The crucial factors from a grower’s point of
view are price and expedition in appraisement and
payment. From the beginning he was keen to know
what price he could expect, and guessers were ready
to oblige. On September 30 “S. M. Herald” announced
that “it was expected to be Is. Australian,” which
would be “sufficient to meet the producer’s costs and
also give him a slight return.” And last season’s
average was 10.5 d.! Fortunately, nobody took the
Old Girl seriously, otherwise every sheep in the Com-
monwealth would have been deafened by the cheering.
Then Melbourne “Argus” weighed in with a positive
assertion that 13.437 d. would be paid. Other daily
papers adopted “almost as the definite average.
On October 1, Mr. Menzies remarked that his
Government had “virtually reached finality.” But the
British Government, he went on, was in negotiation
with “others,” and till those negotiations had been
completed he was “not at liberty to disclose the terms
of our agreement, beyond saying that the price will be
satisfactory.” In any case, the Central Wool Com-
mittee could straightway “proceed with the appraise-
ment of wool,” and “at a very early date overseas
funds would begin to move into Australia in payment
for wool, and a position as far as possible near to
normal would exist so far as it affected the grower
and those dependent on his spending power.” It was
expected that Mr. Menzies would make a more precise
announcement early last week, but he remained dumb.
Meanwhile, the whole trade seemed to be able to
whisper the exact average price. It is to be 13.437 d.
in Australia and 12.189 d. in Maoriland, profits on
resales to foreigners to be shared equally.
No one has yet explained how it will be possible
to adjust a fair average figure or minimum for the
whole output before it is known exactly what yield
and quality will be. Shearing is still in progress. And,
whereas 860-odd types were used by Bawra, the new
scheme has divided types into about 1600 compart-
ments. How anybody but an Einstein could work to
this multiplicity nobody seems to know; but a table
of limits has been prepared. The man most vitally
interested has not been taken into the confidence of
the authorities as to what this table of limits represents.
He must wait for knowledge till it suits the book of
the British Government, which presumably is held up
by the attitude of S. Africa. S. Africa has had auctions
at which Japanese and American buyers sent prices
soaring. Naturally the South Africans wish them to
go on soaring.
There has been no such difficulty in ascertain-
ing what appraisers are getting for their efforts. No
“A.I.F. rates” for them. In the Great War, the
appraisement and organisation staff consisted of about
120 persons, who handled an average of 1,800,000
bales per annum. Their annual salary list was round
£120,000. This year there are over 600 persons to
handle 3,000,000 bales, and their annual salary
list is well over £330,000. All wool will pass
through the hands of junior appraisers and sorters
before its final price is agreed on between a senior
buyer’s appraiser and a seller’s appraiser.
Last time, maximum salaries to appraisers were
round £llOO. This time they are £1350, and three
grades of juniors receive respectively £llOO, £9OO and
£750. In at least some cases the salaries are greatly
in excess of those paid by private concerns; in one,
a man advanced to £9OO p.a. was getting £ll a week
from his own firm. And all this before committees
have funds to carry on with. Nor is more work being
done for the increased pay. An early decision in Syd-
ney was that 15 lots per day should be covered, in-
stead of 30 originally planned.
There are complaints in the trade that, while types
have been separated with the nicest discrimination —
even burr is estimated in 5-per-cent, steps —no provi-
sion seems to have been made for an equally nice
grading of appraisers. Wool is a specialist business.
It is common for one buyer, perhaps, to deal only
with 60’s-64’s Bradford types. But arrangements allot
to one man or one group of men a number of lots irre-
spective of what they consist of. Men who may know
little of dead wool will have to estimate its yield and
determine a fair price for it. More than half the types
which the average appraiser will have to deal with
will be only superficially familiar to him.
An average price of 13.437 d. should give
growers a generous return on the present production
basis. On such an average, some districts will receive
as much as 19d. all round. Still, the price should be
generous, since growers will soon find their costs
mounting with the advancing prices of material and
labor and with the burdens loaded on their shoulders
by squandermania State Governments, apart from war
taxation. The fact that prices are ample is no excuse
for treating wool organisation other than on a rigidly
commercial basis. The whole business needs to be
flooded with daylight. There is too great a tendency
to create hole-and-corner bureaux with the stroke of
a pen at the cost of taxpayers and producers, who do
not know whom they are paying or for what.
Granted that the wool scheme and others of the
kind are primarily the concern of those who produce
the articles, details should be placed before Parliament
and discussed. Meanwhile, it should be made clear to
wool committees that they must operate under a sys-
tem of war-time economy.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Rejected—For the Present.
Hitler’s peace offer, such as it was, was rejected by
M. Daladier in a broadcast speech, and by Mr.
Chamberlain, speaking in the House of Commons.
But, as the “Times” puts it, “Mr. Chamberlain was
careful to leave the way open for a genuine offer.”
“We must assume,” the Prime Minister said, “that
the proposals are based on recognition of Herr Hitler’s
conquests and his right to do as he pleases with the
conquered.” It would be “impossible for Great Britain
to accept any such basis without forfeiting her honor
and abandoning the claim that international disputes
should be settled by discussion, and not by force.... ”
Peace conditions which began by “condoning
aggression” could not be accepted. Rather than “sur-
render to wrongdoing,” the “British peoples” would
accept war. War would mean “cruel losses” for
“victor and vanquished,” but “surrender to wrong-
doing” would spell the “extinction of all hope and the
annihilation of all those values in life which for cen-
turies have been the mark and inspiration of human
progress.”
Peace the German Government could have if it
wanted peace. It alone stood in the way, for it alone
could “satisfy the primary condition”: acts, not words.
No reliance could be placed on its promises. Britain
sought no material advantage and “desired from the
German people nothing that would offend their self-
respect.” It desired for “all the peoples of Europe, in-
cluding the German people,” a peace that would enable
them to “live without fear,” a peace that would
“render it possible to find solutions of questions dis-
turbing the world and preventing disarmament, re-
tarding trade and hindering improvement of the well-
being of all peoples.” But “it must be a real and
settled peace: not an uneasy truce, interrupted by
constant alarms and repeated threats.”
Either the German Government must give convinc-
ing,, proof of the sincerity of its desire for peace by
definite acts and the provision of effective guarantees
of its intention to fulfil undertakings, or we must perse-
vere in our duty to the end.
Mr. Chamberlain mentioned Russia only twice,
and that without referring to the trade agreement —
mystery piled on mystery —which provides for the
exchange of rubber and tin stocks held in Britain for
Russian timber. He made it clear that, with “definite
acts and effective guarantees” as unalterable condi-
tions, he was prepared to conclude a peace with any
responsible German Government. The Stunt Press
idea was that there should be no parleying with any
Nazi nor any stopping of the war until Germany had
been beaten into acceptance of another dictated peace
and a “democratic” Government —which would
become Communist in no time.
Mussolini is reported to be renewing his efforts
for peace. If so, this villain of a thousand articles and
radio attacks is behaving like a good European. But
the initiative should come from the United States.
That country’s part in the tragedy has hitherto been
ignoble. Its soolers continue to sool (“the American
press accuses Hitler of cold feet because of his failure
to launch the much-vaunted lightning-war”), and its
legislators are engaged in a sorry debate as to whether
it should be nootral with limited or with unlimited
profits. In the long run it will make no money out
of the war if the flower of the races of Western Europe
perish horribly on the Siegfried Line or the Maginot
Line and in the waste of waters under sullen skies.
Unification and Action.
How is it that our war measures are so confused and
tardy, and so utterly unheroic? Does the fault lie in
the make-up of Ministers or in the “system” of gov-
ernment? Doubtless in both.
Poor as it may be, the excuse might be made for
Ministers that they are all products of the “system”—
the “system” of seven Governments and seven Par-
liaments ; of quarterly or half-yearly Premiers’ con-
ferences and Loan Council meetings ; of multitudinous
departments—in which about 400,000 persons are em-
ployed—and boards and commissions, many with what
are virtually legislative powers. And with all there
goes persistent dodging of debatable questions by
referring them to lawyers for “inquiry and report.”
Under the “system” confusion is such that we
see provincial Parliaments staging war debates and
provincial Premiers meddling in matters such as war-
service pay.
Maoriland, with its one Parliament, has got action.
Its Labor Government has no great record, but when
the war came it did not dawdle nor did it let any pro-
vincial show comparable to the N.S.W. “Parliament”
rush in with bogus war taxes. The measures it
considered necessary were soon ready, and Parliament
passed them without boggling at the 75 p.c. tax on
the war-time gold premium, as did the Australian
Senate, stretching its powers. Without tackling the
Senate, the Menzies Government accepted a reduc-
tion to 50 p.c., applying it by regulation.
By the end of the first war week the Maoriland
Administration had decided on a special-service force
of 6600 men. Enrolment began on September 12, and
by nine o’clock that night the required number had
been exceeded. A month after the declaration of war
there were nearly 1200 officers and men in camp at
Trentham, which a month before had been “just an
area of fenced-in paddocks” ; for three weeks 530 men
had been getting everything ready for them and their
comrades.
While this was going on, the Australian Govern-
ment had had bursts of intermittent thought about its
militiamen. It decided, first, that they should have 16
days in camp, then a month in camp, then four months.
Mid-September brought another decision —that
there should be a special-service force of 20,000. In
Westralia, the State which had the greatest proportion
of enlistments in 1914-18, recruiting is not to begin
until October 18. In other States it began on October
9. Results nowhere equalled 1914 figures, chiefly
because the enthusiasm of militiamen and non-militia-
men alike was chilled by the offer of “A.I.F. rates ’
regardless of the great increase in the cost of living.
The Maoriland Government is paying far more
than the Australian Government. Twenty-four days
before the young manhood of Australia read in the
newspapers that, after the first month in camp, militia-
men were to be reduced from Bs. a day to ss. a day,
except in the case of the married—"and they were to
get nothing for wives or children —and that the special-
serviceman, while in Australia, would receive the same
princely sum plus 2s. 6d. for a wife and 9d. for a
child, the Maoriland Minister of Defence was an-
nouncing his Dominion’s rates of pay for privates. In
the militia, they are 7s. a day plus ss. when in camp
or instructional school; in the special-service force,
£2 9s. a week plus £1 Is. for a wife and 10s. 6d. for each
child —more in cases where hardship can be proved.
Overgovernment takes an inordinate share of the
national income. It is a shock to find that it breeds
slovenly thinking, indecision and sloth even when the
fate of the nation is at stake. H. W. Lloyd, M.L.A. for
Mosman (N.S.W.), who was an A.I.F. general, has
quoted other examples of the kind of thing it pro-
duces: “the lack of co-operation between Federal
and State authorities” which led to the establishment
on the coast of “steelworks that could be crushed like
eggshells” ; and delays in the movement of troops and
equipment “to Newcastle” because “railways, roads
and other services are under State control.”
Mr. Lloyd, like the Commonwealth member for
his district, Deputy Treasurer Spender, has come out
for unification. Events have made unification so urgent
a matter that, until the verdict of the people can be
taken by referendum, large instalments should be
introduced by national-emergency regulation. There
should, for example, be national control of transport
under Minister Stewart, an unquestioned authority on
transport, and national control of taxation under Mr.
Spender himself.
Toll for the Brave !
Britain began the war with 15 first-class battleships
and battle-cruisers in commission, and five more on
the way. It has lost one of the battleships, the Royal
Oak, 29,150 tons —torpedoed by a submarine.
Considering that the enemy has only two first-
class battleships, and those 11-inch-gun ships, the sink-
ing of a battleship of the 1914 vintage, reconstructed
though it was in recent years, is no great matter. More
serious, and far more harrowing, is the loss of life.
Twelve hundred officers and men were aboard the
Royal Oak, and it is feared that 786 fine fellows went
down with her.
A torpedo is the most potent sea weapon known
at short range. It can destroy a capital ship at four
miles or more. It is gyroscopically controlled, and
its direction is, therefore, not affected by the motion
of the sea. It does not need to penetrate a hull to
destroy. It explodes on contact, and the explosion,
hemmed in by the water, does the maximum of damage
in the direction of least resistance —through the hull.
More than that, the water, forced back in a great
surge, afterwards follows the line of the explosion,
rushes into the breach with tremendous force and adds
to the destruction.
The Royal Oak was one of five battleships of the
Royal Sovereign class, with eight 15-inch guns and
12 six-inch guns. She carried 13-inch armor below
water-line. She was one of the last battleships to be
built with the old ram bow of the Victorian era.
In the Great War she was in the Fourth Battle
Squadron. At Jutland she did good service with her
six-inch guns—strangely enough, against attacking
German torpedo boats. She came out without a
scratch or a casualty.
In later years she was well known to Australians,
and on her last commission her executive officer was
Commander Joseph Burnett, one of the first officers to
be fully trained in the R.A.N. He left her to take a
course at the Imperial Defence College on his pro-
motion to captain.
What Is the Nazis 1 Game ?
“Germany is determined to force Britain to make
peace by methodically letting Russia march step by
step until Britain realises that Communism would be
the only victor in a continued war.” Thus the Berlin
correspondent of a Swedish paper, the Stockholm
“Svenska Dagbladet.” “Hard-pressed on the west,
threatened on the east, nervous about the morale of
his people and deserted by Mussolini and Franco,
Hitler will be compelled to accept whatever condi-
tions of co-operation Stalin wishes to impose on him.”
Thus the Military Correspondent of Sydney “Sun,”
whose Sunday issue tracked down the Black Box in
which Mussolini concealed his plans for sinking the
Royal Navy. Both authorities can’t be right. The
Swede is certainly nearer the mark than the Sydney
gentleman.
Then why Germany’s acquiescence in Stalin’s
efforts to coerce the Finns as he coerced the Estonians,
the Lithuanians and the Latvians? It has a senti-
mental as well as a strategic interest in Finland. In
March, 1918, German military and naval forces inter-
vened when Red Russians and Red Finns were over-
running the country and butchering anti-Bolshevists
wholesale. Co-operating with the Finnish General
Mannerheim, the German General von der Goltz took
Helsingfors (now Helsinki) on April 14, beat the Reds
in a three days’ battle (April 30-May 2) and so helped
Mannerheim to rout another Red army and expel all
murderous Red mobs from Finland.
German relations with the Finns have been
friendly ever since. From the German point of view,
Finland would be an ideal jumping-off place for an
attack on Russia. Yet now we see the Germans
apparently withdrawing from the North Baltic and
letting the Russians do what they can to the Finns and
threaten the security of Sweden and Norway as
well. Why? Because Germany has suddenly become
impotent to protect those decent little nations, its pro-
claimed friends for so many years, and protect its own
sea-power in the Baltic? No; because it is playing
its own game.
A Soviet-coerced Scandinavia might (the Nazis
imagine) be driven to implore the British and French
to settle the quarrel and, these representations failing,
to buy German intervention in its favor with an under-
taking to stop all exports to Britain and France. An
alarmed Western Alliance —alarmed not only for
Europe but for Asia—might be willing to make peace
conditionally on the Red Peril being arrested and
driven back to the steppes. And for Germany that
would be a great deal easier than “Our Military
Correspondents” imagine. Discovery of a cause for
such a war would be as easy as falling down a drain
once London and Paris breathed the magic word
Peace. What if Hitler and Stalin are “bound” by a
no-more-war pledge? Both gentlemen are daisies at
breaking pledges, and to an Adolf who has given no
such hostages to fortune as “definite acts and effective
guarantees,” “no more” and “never again” mean at
most six months.
Effects of Spooner Schemes.
In the field of N.S.W. Government finance Mr.
Stevens and Mr. Spooner borrowed and spent mag-
nificently without taking thought for the morrow ; and
taxpayers are now roaring at the results. But the in-
teresting pair did more ; they encouraged municipal
councils to borrow and spend magnificently. Some
of the consequences are shown in the Finance and
Local Government section of the Statistical Register,
though the latest figures are for 1937.
In that year the Stevens-Spooner Government dis-
tributed £1,506,900 among N.S.W. municipalities
(other than the Sydney City Council and County
Council), including £1,378,000 fof “ordinary ser-
vices.” Rates and “extra charges” brought in
£2,861,100. Administrative expenses amounted to
£354,300. Municipal loan expenditure on “ordinary
services” for the year totalled £1,221,500, and “amounts
owing on deferred debts incurred during the year”
£80,400. On water and sewerage services country
municipalities cheered on and subsidised by Mr.
Spooner spent £360,000 out of loans.
Under Stevens-Spooner patronage, some of the
councils have run up massive debts, largely to “relieve
the unemployed.” At the end of 1937, in “fixed loans
outstanding,” Waverley owed £515,200, Canterbury
£445,500, Willoughby £427,600, Randwick £361,500,
Marrickville £278,500, Bankstown £251,400, Ku-ring-
gai £222,100, Katoomba £206,800, Mosman £186,900,
Ryde (Mr. Spooner’s pet suburb) £177,000 and
Kogarah £166,600. The total for metropolitan and
country was £19,233,800.
In many cases liabilities exceeded assets —by
£336,000 in Willoughby, £331,000 in Randwick,
£223,000 in Canterbury, £218,000 in Marrickville and
£lOl,OOO in Ryde. Under the line “Excess of Income
over Expenditure chargeable thereto,” a few
councils proudly claimed small “excesses,” but most of
them sported the minus sign—Waverley £46,600, Can-
terbury £40,200, Randwick £37,600, Kogarah £30,700,
North Sydney £19,200, Bankstown £29,865, Ku-ring-gai
£19,400 and Ryde £lB,lOO.
At the end of 1937 town and country municipali-
ties owed the Government £5,112,700, and in out-
standing rates and interest ratepayers owed them
£1,552,700. Their chance of getting paid in full is as
remote as the Government’s.
The loudest protests against the new bloodsuck-
ing State taxes are coming from ratepayers in dis-
tricts which have gone in wholeheartedly for Spooner
schemes, such as Canterbury, Kogarah and Bankstown.
They had already been bled for higher rates.
In Hot Pursuit Again.
“C.Q.’s” memory of 1914:
At the same time of the year a quarter of a century
later British warships are hunting for a German pocket battle-
ship, real or alleged, in the Atlantic, just as British, Japanese
and French cruisers hunted for the Emden in the Pacific.
Wireless then was just coming into fashion. The Indian
Government knew so little about it that it was amiably broad-
casting in plain English much of the information the Emden
needed in order to evade her pursuers. Nevertheless, her
escapes were a matter more of luck than prescience.
The Emden put into Simalur, Sumatra, the day after the
Hampshire had dropped in to look for the Konigsberg, another
German raider. Then she set out for Rangoon Bay at the
time that the Yarmouth had been ordered there to search
for her. She crossed the Hampshire’s bows twice far enough
away to be invisible, shelled the oiltanks at Madras and
escaped three hours in advance of the arrival of the Hamp-
shire and the Chikuma.
Being out of coal, she made for Diego Garcia. There
she was received by the British community, feted, filled with
supplies and sent off with asseverations of Germano-British
friendship just five days before the Hampshire turned up to
inform the astounded islanders that the two countries had
been at war for three months. She then made for Colombo,
and would have met a wide swathe of chasers if her retinue
of colliers hadn’t delayed her. She actually passed just
astern of her pursuers, cloaked in a convenient rainstorm.
Her next exploit was to enter Penang harbor and sink the
Russian Zhemchug and the French Mousquet while most of
their officers looked on from the verandah of the Penang
Club. Then she made for Cocos, crossing the path of the
first Australian convoy as she did so. Unknown to Von
Muller, the two Australian cruisers and the Ibuki were. 45
miles from Cocos when he steamed up to the atoll with- his
dummy funnel.
After that Von Muller was swept itito the system of
world communications. I was at Electra House in London
when the news came over the cables that the Emden was
putting a boat out to land on Direction Island. While the
Germans were busy sawing through the dummy cables on the
atoll cable officers at the London headquarters were equally
busy making arrangements for fresh equipment to be sent to
Cocos. Within 24 hours, when the Emden was already a
wreck on Horsborough Island, communications had been
restored on the only interrupted cable, and messages were
passing as usual, though duplex working was impossible.
A few months later fresh equipment arrived from London
and Cocos was normal.
Command of the sea was the important factor in those
days. Some people consider command of the air the
important factor these days. It remains to be proved.


"and its printed
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Cauboy”: Charity affairs for war
funds are being started in Melbourne, but
I very much doubt whether they will have
the piquant flavor the late Nellie Melba
used to give them in the last war when-
ever she assisted. On one occasion a
jumble sale was being held in Collins-
street, and after the auctioneer had run
through a heterogeneous assortment of
articles he came on a bedroom utensil
of a sort which modern plumbing has
put out of fashion. “I don’t think I’d
better offer this,” mumbled the auctioneer
to the diva, looking round at his audi-
ence of respectable citizens. “Non-
sense!” said Melba, and snatching it out
of his hand she held it up for inspection.
“How much am I offered for this?” she
shouted. “Now, Mr. X, this is just your
size and you can get rid of that old
kerosene-tin.” Melba could carry any-
thing off, and Mr. X made his bid like a
sport.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: An otherwise simple
suicide case in Adelaide has been com-
plicated by the fact that the victim was
shot in the back, and with a rifle. How-
ever, the police demonstrated that this
can be done if one is an expert with fire-
arms, which the suicidee was; and, with
some evidence as to intention, the coro-
ner, Blackburn, V.C., said he was satis-
fied that no other person was concerned
in the tragedy.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: News of the torpedoing
of the Rio Claro in the Atlantic by a
submarine was received with the regret
due to a real friend of former days by
many a North Queensland coastal resi-
dent. Late in 1926 she grounded on
Scott Reef, s.-e. from Cape Grafton at
the inner end of Flora Pass, and thou-
sands of cases from her cargo of petrol
and kerosene had to be dumped over-
board to lighten ship. Vagaries of wind
and currents spread them over hundreds
of miles of coast from Upstart Bay to
Cape Bedford, and for months amateur
and professional beachcombers kept a
keen eye peeled for such gifts from
Father Neptune. Towed off at the next
spring tides, she was taken into Cairns
for temporary repair. The local grape-
vine had it that more opium got ashore
during her stay than would supply the
whole North for a year.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: The telephone rang in
the Victorian country medico’s consult-
ing room. “Hello, what’s the matter?”
said the doctor. “My wife’s power’s been
cut off,” cried a voice charged with in-
tense emotion. Being particularly in-
terested in the psychological aspects of
medicine, the doctor metaphorically
rubbed his hands with exultation. “From
what part of her body has it been cut
off?” he shouted. “Hello! Hello!”
screamed the agitated voice. “Is that the
Electricity Commission?”
* ❖ ❖
“Dash o’ Bitter”: Eighty years ago,
Sydney, which had less than a tenth
of its present population, supported
in the city area alone 300 pubs. To-day
533 hotels serve the whole of the metro-
politan licensing districts. Pub names
were more picturesque. Who could resist
a drink at Bill Craig’s Help Me Thro’ the
World, Jack Nobbs’s Swan with Two
Necks, Bill Ward’s Crooked Billet, Joe
Wakely’s Bull and Mouth or Alf Brad-
ford’s Blind Beggar? Then there were
the Dog and Duck, Hit or Miss, Hand
and Heart, Labor in Vain and Rock of
Cashel. If you had the cash and the
stamina to do a pub-crawl up and down
George-street you could start on the east
side at Ted Robertson’s Harbor View
down by Circular Quay, have your
twenty-eighth drink at Andy Byrne’s Pea-
cock Inn on the corner of Campbell-
street, cross the road to Ted Goodwin’s
Turon Inn and work back to the Quay.
By the time you finished your journey at
Jack Harden’s Commercial you would
have stood up at 64 counters.
* * * *
“Claremont”: I can go further back
than “Oxmead’s” 40 years (B. 16/8/’39)
for an origin of the contraction “Wes-
tralia.” At a meeting of members of the
West Australian Club in 1894 or early
in 1895, Frank Wilson, later to become
Premier, in the chair, Walter James, also
a Premier-to-be, gave reasons why
Western Australia should be named
Westralia. It was resolved by those
present that in future the old name
should be dropped and the new one
substituted. But the suggestion was
never taken up very seriously, despite
Bulletin espousal, possibly because
“W.A.” is short enough for all practical
purposes.
* * « *
“Pawang”: Printed without contra-
diction in the dailies that an event un-
precedented in medical history occurred
at Chicago when a woman stricken with
infantile paralysis, and at the point of
death, gave birth to a living baby. A
respirator lent by Frederick Snide, the
“man in the iron lung,” had kept her alive
till the child was born. Unprece-
dented? A year ago a woman was
admitted to the Launceston (Tas.)
General Hospital suffering from i.p.,
was kept continuously in a respirator
for two months, and then allowed out
during the day and replaced at night-
time. After six months she gave birth
to a healthy baby weighing 61b. 10oz.,
and the doctors saved mother, too.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A controversy is ex-
pected in Melbourne which will make up
for the lack of foreign war news. Some
recently-published statistics show that
women are involved in fewer accidents
than men are in proportion to numbers.
Alured Kelly, the new president of the
R.A.C.V., ungallantly retorted that the
explanation of this phenomenon was not
the superior skill of the ladies but the
fact that men instinctively knew when a
woman was driving and carefully avoided
the dangerous creature. There is some-
thing to be said for this point of view.
Some women still traditionally expect to
be shown the deference due to their sex
on all occasions, and when they are at
the wheel of a car claim the middle of
the road and expect the male driver to
climb a tree or take to the gutter. A
Melbourne maiden with considerable
claim to beauty has broken more traffic
rules than 100 males put together, but
her breakages haven’t swelled the sta-
tistics of offences. “You ought to be
more considerate,” expostulated a friend.
“I am most considerate,” she retorted.
“The traffic cops, poor things, love talk-
ing to me.”
* # * *
“X.S.”: The uncle from Fiji has been
brought up to date, according to the
evidence of a German refugee woman in
a Melbourne case the other day. She
alleged that two days after the outbreak
of war a man claiming to be an officer
of the Defence Department tapped on
her door, showed her his papers, de-
manded her passport, and warned her
that she was liable for internment as an
enemy alien. Then he demanded her
valuables, which he promised her would
be returned when the war was finished,
and charged her 15s. 9d. for the privilege
of being registered. She handed over
£3OO worth of jewellery with cheerful
alacrity, glad to escape without imprison-
ment.
* * * *
“Loil”: Just arrived from the Nootral
Republic some blurb from the “Friends
of the Duke of Windsor in America,”
posted nine days before war broke
out. It appears the self-appointed
“Friends” (the ex-King doesn’t know ’em
from a bar of soap, and has never given
the slightest sign that he recognises their
existence) hired a little stand at the
N’Yark World’s Fair and displayed a
slogan:
The People of the World Need Inter-
national Representation. Proposed :
Edward, Duke of Windsor, as Ambassador-
at-large for Democracy and Peace. Sign
here.
Over 8000 people signed the book pro-
vided. All very harmless, and a little
touching. But the “Friends” are now all
up in the air. Britain is at war, the Duke,
as a Britisher, is doing his bit, and it can
no longer be pretended that he is an
International Figure, even by the rummy
little coterie of hyphenated Americans
who comprise the “Friends.” Inci-
dentally, the Duke’s popularity in Aus-
tralia, on the wane in recent months
judging by picture-palace indifference to
his social occasions, has taken an upward
bound now that it is known he is in
uniform “somewhere in France.”
V * * •*
“Kerys”: White feathers, which had a
great run in the last mix-up, haven’t
made their appearance in Australia so far
as the present war has gone. In the last
one the most effective protest I saw came
“The silly cow's sent over the Wrong pipe!"
from an Auckland (M.L.) youth who had
the best of reasons for staying home, but
saw no reason to broadcast it. He
travelled by ferry to his work, and one
morning sat himself opposite a row of
jingoistic flappers he suspected of hav-
ing a hand in the feather business. In
the front of his boater-hat gleamed his
rejection badge ; all round the crown
waved a forest of white feathers. A
dozen embarrassed girls had to stare at
their tokens of disapproval for half an
hour. That ended the white-feather mode
of protest in that sector.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The recipe for haggis given
by The Bulletin’s Service Department
11/10/’39 was being read out at a table
of a Bohemian cafe in Melbourne and
the French chef happened to be listening.
“Have you ever eaten one, monsieur?”
inquired the reader when he had finished.
“No, nevaire,” said the chef, “but” (and
here he brightened) “I trod in one
once.”
* * * *
“Retired Satrap”: Some people live a
long time without knowing anything about
women. Consider the N.S.W. man who
tried to flatter himself out of a fix when a
lady with a gun captured him. Flattery
is quite the wrong tack in that sort of
situation. An expert goes down on his
knees and shouts: “Shoot me, shoot
me, for the love of Mike!” It is ten
to one that the lady will then pull both
triggers and one of several things will
happen—she will have forgotten to load
the gun, she will have forgotten to cock
the triggers or she will take deadly aim
and kill the next-door neighbor’s cow
and faint in the arms of her victim. The
only bloke I ever heard of who was
damaged by using this technique was
one who got too close to his assailant.
In her agitation she dropped the gun
on his toe. Even if the lady turns out to
be a man in disguise the plan will work.
It is a peculiar feature of the male, as
anybody in the last war can testify, that
his lethal inclinations evaporate as soon
as the enemy shows any sign of a desire
to die.
* * * *
“Tovarish”: One of the features of
Soviet culture which seems to be
neglected is the patriotic songs of the
U.S.S.R. If these charming ditties were
taught in every school there would be
no danger of bolshevisation and every-
body would have lots of fun. What a
kick the lads of Doodlakine would get
from beefing out:
Though Mussolini, Hitler, Franco,
Have made a shambles out of Spain,
Yet Democracy will triumph in the end,
For we do not fight in vain.
Though, personally, I don’t like it as
well as the official battle hymn of the Red
Army Air Force with its tender
refrain:
For the workers and all toiling people,
A song of hope in our propellers whirls,
We drop them leaflets while we bomb their
bosses
The first Red Air Fleet of the World.
* * * *
“Chev”: Rivalry for the attentions of
the girls may be responsible for the
private war between the Australian army
and navy adumbrated by my next-door
neighbor recently. A member of the
militia, he was going off for his four
months in camp and dropped in to say
good-bye. “Why on earth are you still in
civvies and why are you carrying your
equipment?” I asked him. “Well, you
see,” he said, “I’ve got to go through
Port Melbourne and there are a lot of
sailors there. If I wore my uniform I
might get a black eye.”
* * * *
“2315”: I nominate Red as the most
resourceful delinquent in the A.I.F. He
had got himself into a labor corps as
punishment for his sins, and Fate, rub-
bing it in, had placed him in the road
gang near Le Havre, at the time when
the troops were going on leave. Red
worked out a tale of a poor, innocent
Irish colleen who was to marry him
within the month in London, took it to
the padre and was convincing enough to
get away with it. The O.C. granted him a
fortnight. Red had the time of his life and
landed back on schedule, but was met
without warning by the sar’-major, with
word that the O.C. demanded production
of the marriage certificate. As there
was no Irish colleen, let alone a wedding,
in Red’s young life, it was a facer, but
between the spot where the sar’-major
met him and the O.C.’s hut he had de-
veloped his plan of defence. By the time
he arrived inside the door he was weep-
ing like a willow-tree in a thunderstorm
because the ship which had been bring-
ing his bride from Dublin had been tor-
pedoed on the day before the wedding,
and by a feat of memory Red was able to
supply the name of the ship and the date.
He got away with that, too, but the sar’-
major gave him a quiet tip afterwards
that such luck mightn’t hold.
THE AIR ARM.
“Britannia rules the waves”—'twas claimed of
yore,
And hence there came a Greater Britain’s
birth,
Dominions that stretched from shore to shore,
An Empire reaching to the ends of earth.
Such were her dues, her rightful guerdons
these
As mistress of the seas.
But times have changed. A vaster element
Our age has learned to conquer and subdue.
On fleets aerial all eyes are bent,
Raining destruction from the trackless blue.
Perils unknown of old the nation braves
Who only rules the waves.
No more Britannia seeks the old-time aid,
She needs no troopships from the south or
west,
No overseas division or brigade.
All we may do is give her of our best
To help her gain—with all that it implies—
The mastery of the skies.
N.S.W.
Midford.


“Escapin', me eye! I'm makin' a bombproof shelter."
“Colbun”: A Sydney lady adjudicat-
ing at a Brisbane eisteddfod has deplored
the manner in which our beautiful Eng-
lish language is “brutally murdered” on
Australian tongues. She illustrated her
meaning by an account of a ride in a
Sydney bus, in which only a chance word
revealed that its passengers were really
trying to converse in the mother tongue.
But, after all, what is the correct mother
tongue? I once had to act as interpreter
for a chanCe-met mob of British immi-
grants in Brisbane from three different
ships Welsh, Irish, Scottish and mid-
county, an’ be jabers, laad, Ah’m tullin’
ye yon wis big job an’ aal. Bai goom,
look ye, in spite of considerable seafaring
acquaintance with waterside inhabitants
of Cardiff, Cork, Greenock and ’Ooll
oop the ’Oomber, a lot had to be guess-
work. Younger Sydney’s: imitation talkie-
twan" and ’Obut’s slurred Cockney are
English undefiled compared with what
can be heard in the native speech of any
Sifririy town in Britain.
* * *
“K.P.A> I’ve been rung in for talks on
practical details involved in the evacua-
tion of town populations in war, and
have been rather surprised by the diffi-
culty of making women think of large-
scale food-problems in sufficient quan-
tities of materials. A pinch of this, a
teaspoonful of that, or a cupful of the
other isn’t much use as a standard when
computing mass requirements. Kid-
population in my village is about 500.
A light tea for them in mass would need
about 1401 b. of bread, 241 b. of butter and
301 b. of jam, with 23 gallons of milk to
drink. An egg each would consume 42
dozen with wastage. A fair dinner means
751 b. of meat, the same of mixed vege-
tables, a half-hundredweight of spuds,
two bags of flour, 751 b. of fruit, 16
gallons of milk, 101 b. of sugar, 91b. of
custard powder and 1001 b. of bread, with
24 gallons of milk, tea or water. Having
striven to visualise these amazing masses
of food, the next feminine question is:
“And what could all that be cooked in?”
* * * *
“Vertige”: The steel-and-concrete can-
yon known as Sydney’s Martin-place has
lately been the scene of a tragedy on
what is becoming a
familiar pattern. A few
weeks ago Mr. Hawkins,
an elderly Minister in
the N. S. Wales Cabi-
net, who had an office
high up in one of these
tall buildings, was
found one evening dead
on the pavement below,
having fallen from his
office window. The
caretaker of the build-
ing gave evidence that
on a previous occasion
he had found the Min-
ister with his legs across
the windowsill, but this
testimony was not
accepted by the coroner.
Now an elderly com-
mercial traveller named
Barnett has fallen to his
death from the summit
of the Prudential Build-
ing. Barnett was a
member of the Com-
mercial Travellers’
Club, whose rooms are
on the other side of
Marti n-place. The
tragedy recalled to the
memory of people with
offices in the Prudential
Building that some time
before they had seen
Barnett dangling his
legs over the parapet
outside the club’s win-
dows, 100 ft. above the
pavement. Club offi-
cials were informed, and induced
Barnett, who said he was admiring the
view, to come back through the window.
It’s to be hoped this sort of thing is not
going to prove infectious.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Whitford, M.L.C. of S.A.,
has failed in a libel suit for £2OOO against
the “Patriot,” a local anti-liquor-trade
organ. W. G. Clarke, Methodist
minister and its editor, wrote, when a
Licensing Act amendment introduced by
Whitford went through last year by 12
votes to five, that the Leg. Council “has
become amenable to the liquor interests
can only be regarded as a rubber
stamp to give effect to any demands they
may choose to make Not the public,
but the publican, is the Council’s first
consideration.” In the witness box the
author “justified” everything, refusing to
withdraw or qualify it. Judge Napier
found it “regrettable” that “people who
have excellent ideals, and may be perfectly
right, should dissociate themselves from
people of moderate sentiments, and
occasionally should disgust the general
public by personalities which have no
justification.” But though saying that the
attack was “intemperate undeserved
and unjust,” he held that it “does not go
beyond what is known to the law as fair
comment.” The Judge added that the
case was far from being without doubt,
and he gave the successful defendant
only half his costs.
* * * *
“Ricardo”: Finding himself stranded
on a country road with an empty petrol-
tank, N. G. Bolton, secretary of Inverell
(N.S.W.) Hospital, had no option but to
await the arrival of a Good Samaritan.
In due course a farmer hap-
pened along in his car and
was able to lend some juice.
“Thanks, old chap,” said the
secretary. “When you’re in
town again charge up a
couple of gallons to my ac-
count. I’m Bolton from the
hospital.” He’s still medi-
tating on the surprising reply.
“I don’t blame you; I’ve
had some hospital experience
myself.”
* * *
“Town Clerk”: When a
municipal council offers a
prize for a name for a new
district don’t send in an abo.
one unless you are quite
sure what it means. A recent entrant
wanted us to call a garden suburb
by a name that means “stinking
fish in the sun.” Stick to Eng-
lish, or, better still, to Saxon. You can
hardly go wrong with such endings as
vale, dale, ford, wood, field, hill, cliff, ton
(Anglo-Saxon for town), wick or thorpe
(a village) or ham (home). But many go
astray over such suffixes as combe (a
hollow between hills), hurst (a wood),
mere (lake or marsh), fell (mountain),
worth (farm), bury (fortified place) and
beck (a brook).
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Federal Labor would
counter Berlin short-wave broadcasts by
“Think what this means to the Empire, Prendergast! He's going to point
the bone at Hitler."
replying from this country with broad-
casts in German and other languages,
a Vnoh
A strong voice in the form of high-
powered short-wave transmitters with
directional aerial systems, while present-
ing no great technical difficulties, would
T _
cost a pretty penny. In any case, it
would be doubtful whether many Ger-
mans would hear anything considering
the Nazi ban on the use of short-wave
A , „ . ,
receivers. A better way to counteract the
Berlin transmissions would be to use on
each frequency, during the English-speak-
ing sessions, fairly powerful I.C.W. trans-
missions. They could be installed cheap
at various points throughout Australia
to take care of “skip” effect, and the
presence of a continuously blaring 1000-
cycle note of strong intensity on the
same frequency would very soon induce
listeners to shift the receiver tuning in
favor of Daventry.
* * * *
“D.E.”: An English newspaperman I
admire is C. G. Grey, editor of the “Aero-
plane.” He is almost the sole remaining
representative of the old “Saturday
Review” school of journalism, which
didn’t care a damn for anybody except
the royal family and the church. Many
other editors have long since surrendered
to Americanisation and feminisation.
transferring to Old England not only the
N. York tabloids’ adulation of “film
stars” and adoration of nearly-naked
brats, but their jargon and screaming
abuse ; but not Grey. He remains, tell-
ing in robust English the truth as he sees
it: manly, mordant, witty. Hear him
on the country that became “an
associated nation” when “the war clouds
lowered in 1917.”
My friend Harry Knox had a wonderful
theory about why the United States came
into the war. They had sent their best
high-pressure salesmen over here as soon
as war broke out to sell us armament,
and they had tried the methods to which
they had been accustomed in other foreign
countries. The result was that when they
handed out wads of banknotes they were
kicked down the stairs of Government
offices.
Gradually they got to know something
of our methods, and then their salesmen
came over here and settled down as
American millionaires in opulent mansions
and got to know people socially and enter-
tained largely. But, according to Harry’s
theory, they found that they were still
aliens, even if not undesirable aliens, so
they decided in the end that their only hope
was to come into the war.
After wading through the sneers of non-
starters —all Left Wing—in a representa-
tive selection of woman-mad American
magazines, it made me feel good to read
that.
* * * *
“Chok Fena”: —■
Trying to oblige a pal on service who asked
me to get him some decent naval glasses, I
discovered that there is one thing in this old
world which has not' changed since before the
last carnage —Uncle Ikey. Streets, pavements,
buildings, building materials, clothes, transport,
newspapers, artists, soldiers, guns, ships, beer,
standards of living and of morals, bathing
suits, all are different, but Uncle Ikey is
exactly the same —same three golden balls,
same shallow, dusty window, same jewellery,
same forbidding but judicious lozenged grill,
same dim and cluttered interior into which
you are enticed by the same notice: “We buy
everything.” Same palm friction in greeting,
too. “I want some field glasses,” I said
to Ikey. He sized me up, reached for a cheap
French outfit, poor glass, no depth, nothing.
“Something better,” I said; “plenty of magnifi-
cation—l 2 x 50, something in that range.”
He produced an exhibit about a yard long,
prob l ably made by a Japanese apprent i ce in h is
spare time. “Twenty-five poundth,” he mur-
mured. “Look,” I yelled, “I don’t want
rubbish. I know glasses. You ought to know
better than to waste my time with this stun,
“y e ]] ; ’> be answered meekly, “they suith thome
people—ve all muthth live.” “Why?” I said,
“Ain’t it nethethary for you to live?” asked
roared. “Veil, vat do you vant
glatheth for? queried Ikey in an injured voice,
B Vy don > t you 4 die stra i g h t off and thave my
time?”
THE SIX HUNDRED.
“Six hundred jurymen were called for the trial of
the men alleged to have been concerned in the laid
on Brisbane Parliament House. The Crown stood
down 69 and the defence challenged 129 before a
panel was obtained.’’
Into the City Hall,
All surging onward
At King and country’s call
Strode the six hundred,
Good men of every trade
Prepared the cause to aid
For which our laws are made,
Trusty six hundred!
Forward they swung and swayed,
Never a one dismayed
Though from his daily biz
Abruptly sundered.
Theirs not to reason why
But all their wits to apply
An outsize case to try—
Such as might reach the box
Out of six hundred.
Counsel to right of them,
Counsel to left of them
Almost incessantly
Challenges thundered.
Scathing as shot or shell
That grim dissyllable
Monotonously fell
Into the riven ranks
Of the six hundred.
Ever one here, one there
Got, so to speak, the air.
Some doubtless didn’t care,
While others wondered
What there should be about
Fellows so staunch and stout
To get them counted out,
Just on two hundred!
When will their record fade?
Surely was history made,
Whoever blundered,
When, ere they could begin
To swear a panel in,
Jurors who’d got the bird
Amounted to a third
Part of six hundred!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


CRAVEN A"
are kinder . .
to the throat
made specially jo prevent sore throats
%
£
2819
mmm.
10 for 9 D 50 for 3 ( 9
20 for 1 7 6 100 for 7'6
POLITICAL POINTS
Four professors and a doctor of
economics have been appointed “to in-
vestigate the effects of the war on Aus-
tralia’s economy, and to examine methods
of counteracting losses of trade or
national income.” It remains only to put
all the Russian-alliance professors on a
win-the-war committee and victory is as
good as gained.
Hitler in Mein Kampf :
Those who are in power in Russia to-
day have no idea of forming an honorable
alliance or of remaining true to it if they
did The fact of forming an alliance
with Russia would be the signal for a new
war. And the result of that would be the
end of Germany.
And with that available as propaganda,
8.8. C. gives the Germans the lurid rub-
bish of a Famous American Correspon-
dent.
The first article of the Anglo-Polish
agreement:
Should one of the Contracting Parties be-
come engaged in hostilities with a European
Power in consequence of aggressioh by the
latter against that Contracting Party, the
other Contracting Party will at once give
the Contracting Party engaged in hostilities
all the support and assistance in its power.
“A European Power” invaded Poland
from the east, plundered the inhabitants
and turned its murderers loose on those
who resisted. That “European Power”
has since threatened Britain in an
article of a treaty made with the First
Robber, with which Britain is at war.
Yet under an agreement signed last week
Britain is swapping rubber and tin for
Russian timber. Sometimes this war
looks like a race in which there are no
triers.
Plans for the setting up of a useless
inter-State commission, with Pearce as
chairman, have had to be postponed in-
definitely, and Pearce’s newspaper friends
are now demanding that some war job
should be made for him. One certifies
that the elderly gentleman possesses
“unique qualifications,” being cool,
cautious, resourceful, industrious, gifted,
brilliant, sagacious, able ; a man of great
political gifts and remarkable experience,
a peerless adviser endowed with “rock-
like determination.” In short, a marvel-
lous old boy who would have been “a
wonderful choice” as Secretary to the
War Cabinet. Perhaps Britain and
France will now grab him to organise
victory.
The Sydney Government’s tax-grab
nearly cost it the Upper Hunter seat.
At the general election, Labor stocks
were so low that the party couldn’t find
a candidate. At the by-election, in a poll
of 12,879, its J. Y. Russell was beaten
by Rose, one of three C.P. nominees,
by a bare 100. With a one-Parliament
policy, Labor would have won hands
down.
At the beginning of 1938-39 Queens-
land owed Americans $8,971,500 at 7 p.c.
and $10,000,000 at 6 p.c.— less $697,000
held by the National Debt Commission.
On the 7 per cents, that year it had to find
in Australian currency £128,104 in in-
terest and £35,956 in exchange; on the
6 per cents. £123,292 interest and £30,731
exchange. This year there will be a sub-
stantial increase. Borrowing in the
U.S.A. was one of Theodore’s great ideas,
and Lang copied it.
Wilson, the lone C.P. member for
Wimmera (Vic) whom Cameron called
a “cleanskin,” has had the courage to
come out for “the international con-
ference proposed by Herr Hitler to con-
sider a basis for world peace.” True, he
wound up his letter to the papers by re-
ferring to the Herr as “a tyrant and
despot who insists on remaining a
menace to civilisation”; but no poli-
tician without sand would have written
that first sentence.
G. B. Shaw to the London “Times”:
Hitler is under the powerful thumb of
Stalin, whose interest in peace is over-
whelming. And everyone except myself
is frightened out of his or her wits. Why?
Am I mad? If not, why, why, why?
The old gentleman’s three whys recall
the third George’s “What? what? what?”
George, too, had a low opinion of Shak-
speare (“What? what? what?”); and he
was very decidedly off his rocker.
N.S.W. taxpayers haven’t been allowed
to know how the Government pub and
chalet at Kosciusko have fared financially
since the Railway Department took over
the Government tourist business, but it
would be a safe bet that they remain sinks
for tax-money. Victoria’s Buffalo chalet,
though it has no license, used to make a
much better showing than Kosciusko did
“Wet canteens for the British army; dry canteens for the Australian forces!”
“Ere’s a toast, Dig., from the Chooms! To Australia, the land of the ‘free.’”
when the N.S.W. Auditor-General annu-
dif?J?d gm e ““SS&f, , a „™
oss £ 15,900 on Buffalo is now a
fitted. The truth is that the people who
frequent both places-a large proportion
are squealing flappers- are carried and
accommodated, at a good deal less than
cost, the deficiency being made up by
P e °P fe "ho never see either.
Written on a piece of paper found at
Canberra:
Foreign Governments wage war but don’t
declare war. The Australian Government
a declares war but doesn’t wage it.
A Ministerial supporter is suspected.
The Queensland Labor heads have
handled the Prot. Lab. revolt very
clumsily, and the Government’s ulti-
matum to a Prot. Lab. who has been
elected Mayor of Maryborough won’t
help. Named R. D. McDowell, he
is a boilermaker in the railway work-
shops, and he has been ordered to
quit being Mayor or to apply for
leave from the workshops without
pay. McDowell protests that he can
do both jobs, and an alderman in the
Premier’s own town of Mackay has come
forward to testify that he was Mayor
of Roma for five years and in charge of
the railway goods shed at the same time.
Federal Labor members with doubtful
majorities are feeling distinctly uneasy.
The All-India Congress, by 188 votes
to 58, condemned Nazi aggression, but
resolved not to help Britain until that
country agreed to apply self-determi-
nation to India. Much more sensibly,
Gandhi said India should give uncondi-
tional support to Britain if it is to expect
concessions; if your friend is being
stoushed and you want him to remain
your friend you don’t make conditions
before going to his assistance. Gandhi
is adored by the masses in India but is
disliked by professional politicians.
State Moratorium and Financial Emer-
gency Acts have been, or are, to be
extended. No doubt it can’t be helped ;
but in the case of some old people it
may mean that they will never regain
control of their property or get their
money back. The N.S.W. Moratorium
Act is to go on for three years if the “Par-
liament” lasts that long. More modest
or less optimistic, the Westralian show
~ . ~ . ,
is continuing its Mortgagees Rights
Restriction Act to the end of 1940.
Almost as soon as the war began the
Stunt Press clapped Goebbels into gaol
for forcing his ’orrible attentions on an
actress or for socking millions away in
foreign banks—the precise nature of the
crime is uncertain. It let him out last
week, and the unpleasant fellow spoke
after Hitler at a Winter-help meeting in
Berlin. Back to the clink he will go as
soon as it becomes expedient to ginger-up
the war news.
Goring is reported to have presented
Voroshilov with a “slow monoplane.”
The time may come when a pair of run-
ning shoes will seem to have been more
appropriate.
Sure of the passage of its bogus war
Budget, the Sydney Government is closing
the alleged Parliament till “early next
year.” This means that the people won't
get even a pretence of legislative work
for at least a third of the term during
which they are to be stung for £3,900,000
in additional taxes; with their free
passes and their £875 p.a. (raised £~O5
p.a. when it was alleged that there would
be a surplus of nearly £BOOO, instead ot
which there was a deficit of nearly
£5.000.000) Assemblymen will be able to
go racing, surfing and fishing. There
would be general approval of an adjourn-
ment if it were an adjournment for all
time without passes or pay.
The French have outlawed Commu-
nism, as the Finns have done from the
beginning of their Republic, and 40 Com-
munist members of the Chamber —nearly
half the number —are under arrest. One
of their leaders, Marty, deserted from
the army and bolted to Moscow. The
Stunt Press now admits that this traitor
“was largely responsible for the provision
of French assistance to the Spanish Re-
publicans during the civil war.” Until
the civil war was over, the Stunt Press
never mentioned anything about “French
assistance” and it was hot for British-
Empire intervention on the side of Marty
and his fellow-ruffians, calling them
“democrats.”
Stewart, M.H.R., emerged from the
obscurity of the Health and Social
Services Department the other day to
remark that “we cannot much longer
shut our eyes to the ex-
travagance and absurd
overlapping inseparable
from our seven Parlia-
ments and their 600
members governing a
population of less than
8,000,000.” Actually, the
population is not quite
7,000,000, there are 609
members, and a lot of
the “governing” is done
by boards and commis-
sions. Stewart himself
has time enough on his
hands to lead a one-
‘ Parliament movement.
Pious aspirations re-
peated at long intervals
are of little use.
A self-styled League
of Peace and Democ-
racy has struggled out
of the stupor to which
the performances of
Stalin reduced it, and
demanded a boycott—
of Japan! Through the
medium of Wright, one
of the Red lads of Syd-
ney’s Labor Council, it
has served a hot-air
ultimatum on the Gov-
ernment at Canberra —
“prohibit trade with
Japan and give credits
to China.” If the Gov-
ernment • at Canberra
had any intestinal fortitude it would
“prohibit” the League of Peace and
Democracy, and order Wright to choose
between shutting up about boycotting
neutrals and being expelled to Moscow.
Panton, the Westralian Minister of
Health, has put through a bill prohibit-
ing the advertising and hawking of con-
traceptives. Not having had a law like
Victoria’s, Westralia has become a happy
hunting-ground for insolent ruffians en-
gaged in the nefarious trade. The
Minister instanced a case known to him
personally, that of a young wife who was
delivered of a stillborn child. “Two days
afterwards there came to the house a
package of literature which intimated to
the young couple how they could pre-
vent such things happening.” That
ought to be good for five years’ hard.
Dailies reported that the Russians were
pouring troops and tanks into Sinkiang,
a province of China. Russians denied
it, Japanese affirmed it and then denied
it. Then Chinese denied that there were
any Russian troops in Sinkiang. Readers
can take their choice, if any.


STAY-IN STRIKE.
“I wish to goodness there had been a cricket school for dictators.”—Canon Hughes, President of the V.C.A.


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 805 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
exchange business transacted.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WAR PRICES AND PROFITS
INVESTMENT PROSPECTS
THE GOLD QUESTION
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS
October Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Group-Captain H. F. de la Rue, who
commands Australia’s Air Expeditionary
Force, doesn’t always append his signa-
tures to army orders. Like Hitler,
he has a flair for water-color painting,
and patrons of art shows in Melbourne
are familiar with his landscapes. He
diversified his job of commander at Point
Cook with going out on painting expedi-
tions with Charles Wheeler and Harold
Herbert, who have a high opinion of
his talent as an artist. He’s been a flier
since 1916, when he joined the R.N.A.S.,
and holds the Distinguished Flying Cross
and the Italian silver valor medal.
Dead in British Columbia after a short
illness, Neville Charles Howse, son of
Neville Howse, V.C., in whose medical
footsteps he followed. He was an Edin-
burgh graduate, and was on the point of
returning to Australia to take up a
military appointment when the end
came. He was only 32.
Killed by a train at a level-crossing
at Healesville, Vic., Commander Geof-
frey Haggard. He was second in com-
mand of the submarine AE2 in the last
war when that ship performed the
amazing feat of getting through the
mine-strewn Dardanelles into the Sea
of Marmora, where it ran aground, the
crew being captured and interned by the
Turks for the duration. Haggard’s first
acquaintance with Australia was in
1913, when he was lent to the R.A.N.
A recent Australian war casualty is
Acting-Flight Lieutenant John William
Allsop, who failed to return from air
operations over the North Sea. He was
a 1936 Point Cook graduate, and held a
short-term commission with the R.A.F.
He married a Melbourne girl 12 months
ago.
Keith A. Morris, just returned to Sydney
after a world tour, is the Australian head
and a director of Carreras. He was born
at Parramatta 47 years ago, and started
work as a lad with Robert Reid and Co.
In 1914 he joined the A.1.F., artillery
branch, transferring ffo the British Army
in 1915. War wounds sent him to hos-
KEITH MORRIS.
pital in 1916, but not before he had won
the M.C. at Thiepval. He returned to
Australia in 1919. He’s a vice-chairman
of the Hospital Saturday Fund, and is
a member of the Royal Motor Yacht
Club and the Pymble Golf Club.
The lull between Metrop. and Caul-
field Cup gave Frith his chance to model
the leprechaunish phiz, of Australia’s
best-known racing scribe, with the
attached result. “Pilot” (J. F. Dexter) has
now been writing on the Sport of Kings
for upwards of 50 years. Born in Too-
woomba (Q.), he imbibed a boyhood in-
“PILOT” OF "THE BULLETIN.”
(Modelled by Frith.)
terest in the sport from an uncle who
was an early secretary of the Toowoomba
Racing Club, and at 16, as a comp, in
a Dalby newspaper office, was already
writing the paper’s racing notes. It was
as a comp, that he joined the “Referee”
in Sydney, doing racing notes anony-
mously for some years before setting up
as a full-blown racing scribe, and, under
the nom de cheval of “Pilot,” writing the
“Ref.’s” racing for just five years short of
half a century. Even when he moved
from the “Ref.” into the “Smith’s Weekly”
stable, his old paper (and job) followed
him, the “Ref.” being bought by the
“S.W.” interests. These days he’s
just about equally famous as a sire of
racing scribes. Of his talented progeny
two are in that line with the “Sunday
Sun,” A.W. in Sydney and H.N. in Mel-
bourne ; C.G. is with Sydney “Tele-
graph,” and F.H. with Melbourne
“Argus.” Another, R.J., looks after pub-
licity for Warner Bros., the film people,
in London ; yet another, J. Dexter, who
manages for the Blau perfume people in
Sydney, gathered a Military Cross in the
1914-18 dust-up. “Pilot” isn’t the first of
his family to write for The Bulletin ;
his daughter, May Dexter, wrote for both
The Bulletin and “Mirror” before she
married.
George Ritchie is back in his place in
S.A. Leg. Council, but not now as Chief
Secretary. He is 75 and, making only a
slow recovery from a heavy fall and
broken limb early in the session, resigned
his post to McEwin, a practical stock-
breeder and a much younger man.
Passed over at 81, Alfred Ashley Atkin-
son, until 1922 Chief Inspector of Coal-
mines, N. S. Wales. He was the son of
the late J. J. Atkinson, an inspector of
coalmines in England who was known
as “The Father of Ventilation.” After
extensive experience in India and the
North of England, A. A. Atkinson came
to Australia under appointment in 1897.
He reported for the Q’land Government
on the proposed purchase of coalmines
by that State and on the condition of
collieries in respect to the presence of
inflammable gas. In October, 1916, he
was appointed General Superintendent of
N. S. Wales State Coalmines, and later
became Chief Inspector. A son, Jack
Atkinson, is g.m. of Burma-Malay Tin,
and a grandson, R. A. Atkinson, recently
left a dredging job in Siam to join the
R.A.F. in Singapore.
Britain’s naval fighting chief has
scarcely been mentioned during this war.
He is Charles Morton Forbes, K.C.B.
He is 59, has been in the R.N. 45 years,
is an ordnance expert, won
the D.S.O. at Jutland and
has commanded everything
from destroyers to the First
Battle Squadron and the
Home Fleet. He has not
had the world-wide adven-
turous experience of his
polar-explorer colleague, the
erstwhile commander of the
R.A.N., E. R. G. Evans,
now a full admiral and until
a few months ago c.-in-c. at
the Nore, but they have
domestic alliances in com-
mon —both married Scandi-
navians as second wives,
Evans a Norwegian and
Forbes a Swedish girl.
Forbes’s flagship is the Nel-
son, latest of the great
battleships of the pre-Hitler
era. She has an Australian
linkage—the first ship of
the name built in the year
of Trafalgar was handed
over to Victoria in 1868 and
was well known in Port
Phillip till the early ’nine-
ties. Her figurehead deco-
rates the lawn at Rushcutter
Bay Naval Depot (Sydney).
H. Hamilton, of Mel-
bourne, who has retired
as chairman of Vacuum Oil, was
born in Lanarkshire, Scotland, and came
to Australia nearly 40 years ago. Shortly
after his arrival he joined the Vacuum
organisation in Brisbane as a clerk. His
promotion was rapid, and in his early
thirties he was. appointed g.m. for the
co. in M.L. He returned to Melbourne
in 1913, was elected deputy chairman in
1924 and chairman early in 1938. Dur-
ing his 38 years’ service with Vacuum
he has seen the oil industry develop from
small beginnings into one of the most
vital and widely organised industries m
the Commonwealth. A farewell dinner
was tendered to him by his fellow-direc-
tors and chief executive officers of the
co. at Menzies.
Sydney now has two Canon Ham-
monds. One of them is R. B. S.
Hammond, the well-known rector of
St. Barnabas’s, George-street West,
founder of Hammondville, friend of the
down-and-out, and leader of the prohi-
bition forces in N. S. Wales. The other
is T. C. Hammond, who succeeded
Archdeacon Davies as Principal of
Moore Theological College, Sydney,
just elected to a vacant canonry at St.
Andrew’s Cathedral. Like his brother
cleric, to whom he is not related, the
Moore College Hammond is a stout
battler against the Demon Rum, and is
much in demand at W.C.T.U. con-
ferences. An Irishman born in Cork,
and educated at Trinity College, Dublin,
he was rector of St. Kevin’s, Dublin,
and in charge of the Irish Church Mis-
sions before coming to Australia.
Bishop Dwyer, of Wagga (N.S.W.), is
dead at 71. He was born at East Mait-
land tN.S.W.), son of an inspector of
schools, and was educated for the priest-
hood at St. Charles’s Seminary, Bathurst,
the Clonliffe Diocesan College in Dublin
and the Urban College of Propaganda m
Rome. The first years of his priesthood
were spent in Ireland. He returned to
Australia to become a teacher at St.
Patrick’s, Goulburn. Outside his episcopal
activities and his services as an educational
organiser Bishop Dwyer was deeply in-
terested in music and in the study of
Australian flora, on which he was a
high authority. A brother, Dr. P. V.
Dwyer, Bishop of Maitland, now dead,
was the first Australian-born priest to
become a prelate.
Adelaide-born and educated in Hobart,
Frank Fox, who wrote the foreword to
an anthology of Australian short stories
recently published in London, once edited
the Bathurst (N.S.W.) “National Advo-
cate,” and like two other editors of that
paper, J. B. Dailey and George Black, was
afterwards a member of The Bulletin’s
editorial staff. While with this paper Fox
wrote under the nom de plume of “Frank
Renar,” turned out a book on Harry
Morant (“The Breaker”), edited the
“Lone Hand,” and displeased the com-
positors because of his handwriting, which
was a bewildering disturbance in violet
ink. In 1909 he crossed to London and
joined the “Morning Post” as an assistant-
editor. The “Post” sent him to report
the Balkan War. When the 1914-18
war broke out he was attached to the
Belgian army, afterwards served with
the British artillery, was twice wounded
on the Somme and ended a major in the
War Office. A knighthood came his way
in 1918. He has written over 30 books,
mostly travel and history. He’s now 65.
Edward Macarthur Onslow, of Cam-
den (N.S.W.), has made available to the
Defence Department a fully-equipped
aerodrome at Macquarie Grove, Camden,
where he has been training civilian pilots
himself during the last few months. The
site of the aerodrome was originally a
racecourse, and when Capt. Edgar Per-
cival landed an old Avro there in 1924
EDWARD MACARTHUR ONSLOW.
the aviation bug first bit the Onslow
brothers. After some flying with Percival
they built a machine with which they
won £BOO prize-money in air contests.
With subsequent advanced Aero Club
training Edward left the care of Camden
Park cattle to staider minds and took
on flying as a full-time job. Since March,
1939, he has personally trained 15 pilots,
and several more fledglings are about to
qualify under his tuition, among them
Lusby, who made this sketch. E. Mac.
Onslow is 30, was educated at King’s
School, Parramatta, and has been a
militia machine-gun officer for 12 years.


CORRECT EASY ADJUSTMENT
INCORPORATED WITH POCKET
.
'i
mm
mm
mgmm
fIHHSSI
h
lillli
■
:
i
■
u
WmM
■hhe
■
ev m
1
■
HI
■
■
■ \
:
■
.
■H ; i
; .
m
m
mm.
.
: .
mMWH
■gggg.y. :
'
m
§
& K
■
,
Nj«fj mt'M.L
I
FOR SPORTS AND EVERYDAY WEAR
o
■REGD
AM,
*
JS
Self-supporting —NO ELASTIC
if Perfect waist fitting
No puckering —guaranteed
Comfort and ease ...for every need
So
Wear BREKS
THE BETTER SPORTSWAIST TROUSER
TO GOLFERS
4 +
Reduce your golf handicap by reducing
your waist handicap —
Wear BREKS
NO ELASTIC to pucker or perish
Procurable at all progressive stores. Any difficulty in this direction should be referred to
BOX 1617 88, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W., or
BOX 262, G.P.0., MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Dick the Dasher and
Little Dark, fencers, bush-carpenters,
well-sinkers or what-have-you, were
building a new hut on the station. They
had a method of working distinctly their
own—followed only the plans drawn in
their own minds, and ignored the set times
of ordinary men. Thus they began a build-
ing in a manner others thought crazy ;
frequently they went fishing by day, and
the slumbers of the just were disturbed
by loud hammerings and sawings in the
small hours of darkness. Artists in their
own rough-hewn way, they worked as
feverishly as any sculptor when the
creative mood took them, harmonised
like a sweetly-running engine, and those
who knew them never interfered, for
their work stood monuments to their
ability. The new owner had heard of
their ways and hung curiously around.
Dick and Dark resented this and went
into solemn conclave. Next night the
owner came to watch. Dick took a brace-
and-bit, rested the bit carefully on his
belt buckle, and whirled the brace round.
Obviously failing to make any impression
on the wall-plate, he snarled, “What sort
of a brace is this! It’s got the bit at
the wrong end! ” Dark came over,
gravely eyed the offending tool, and said,
“You’re too nervous when someone’s
watching, Dasher; that brace is for the
opposite wall. Here’s the right one!”
Holding his breath, the squatter stole
away.
* * * *
“Jade”: A station-dweller, far out in
Western Queensland and nearly 70 miles
from a town, spent £l3 ss. on a tin of
infant’s patent food —and it wasn’t a case
of life or death either. As the child,
because of bad management, happened to
be lacking the food, he rang the town’s
taxi and hired it to bring the food out.
Yes —he went broke!
“Gryllus”: Our cat, Mrs. Jinks, is not
at all a benevolent person by nature, but
we have established a barter system
under which she gets a lump of raw
meat and a saucer of milk for every live
and unhurt capture which she brings in
from her bush walkabouts. Last week
she contributed the most engaging pet
that this household has yet had among
a varied series of such adoptions. It is
a “flying mouse,” Acrobates pygmceus
technically, smallest of all the gliding
marsupials. A 2oz. round tobacco-tin
lined with wool made an ample bed for
it to curl up in and finish its day doze
which Mrs. J. had interrupted. At sun-
set it woke, licked up the diluted cream
and honey which we offered, and forth-
with became a sprite of the most amazing
agility, soaring across the verandah on
sidefolds of skin with the feathery tail
acting as a rudder-plane. It shows neither
fear nor temper, will sit on one’s palm
to nibble a flower daintily, and has
seemingly adopted us for good and all.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: A hot, muggy day, and
the air above the potato-paddock thick
with flies, small moths and tiny beetles.
A dozen or so white-fronted chats
fluttered and fed well, an occasional
“tang” voicing for the flock its apprecia-
tion of the good going. Then across the
tater-tops flashed a steely streak which
rose in a perfect quarter-circle and
finished with wings folded an inch from
a dapper little cock bird. The victim,
numb with fate, was taken in a talon
which reached out with confident yet
delicate certainty—no hand ever more
dainty—and the raider was gone before
the plaintive cheeping that bewailed his
visit had ceased. It was a collared
sparrow-hawk.
* * * *
“D.G.F.”: Wasn’t that tomato thrown
at the sheriff in J. H. M. Abbott’s Governor
Bourke story (B. 27/9/’39) something of
an anachronism? 'ln the Upper Hunter
(N.S.W.) district, where I was brought up,
the earliest tomatoes I remember ap-
peared somewhere in the late ’sixties.
They were called love-apples then, and
were about the size of cherries. It was
some years before they developed into
anything like the fruit of to-day. If
there were tomatoes in Sydney in 1835,
certainly none was big enough and
squashy enough for use as a political
argument.
* * $ $
“Farthest Out”: The elusive gold is
sometimes hunted down in odd places.
Knew a big goldfields foundry where
through years all sorts of mining
machinery, stamper boxes, grinding pans,
etc., had been broken up for scrap. From
these the furnaceman and his offsider
scraped more golden ounces than they
dared admit. Then one day another
bloke got a brainwave. Approaching the
management he obtained the right, on
half-shares, to treat all the dirt under
the scrap-heap. Put through a berdan
pan and sorted out from innumerable
“Tell yer boss We've come ter repossess the office furnichure!”
fragments of iron, this dirt yielded well
over a hundred ounces of bullion. That
was good—and dinkum. Then two out-
siders applied for and obtained the right
to dig deeper and treat the substratum
under the scrap-heap. Their yield was
wonderful—so outstanding that detec-
tives came around and took samples of
the El Dorado. No, they couldn’t prove
anything, but one of the outsiders made
an extensive tour on the wealth which
he said he won from that old scrap-
heap.
* * * *
“B. Comber”: A graphic illustration
of the result of indiscriminate massacre
is the disappearance of the seal from the
W.A. coast. A century ago herds were to
be found on every island and coastal reef
from Cape Leeuwin to Shark Bay. Value-
less for fur, these hair seals nevertheless
yielded oil, and in the off-season from
bay whaling they passed by uncounted
thousands through the try-pots. Ten
“Any peculiarities s”
years ago only one was left, a medium-
sized bull, known affectionately to beach-
combers as Sam. But Sam, harmless as
a puppy, had a bad time from sharks—
and men. The last time I saw him he
had a big patch missing from his right
side, where the teeth of a sea tiger had
evidently just grazed him. But humans
were his most persistent foes. Accepted
on Cottesloe and other surfing beaches
as a novel visitor, Sam seldom escaped
the unrestrained hoodlum who, lacking
a gun, sought to assault him with lumps
of rock. ''His last appearance probably
broke his heart. Sunning himself on the
rocks at Swanbourne he was observed by
a local “sportsman,” who promptly bolted
home to get a gun. To save him from the
impending fate the local kids were
obliged to pelt Sam back to the sea.
Never seen since, the lone seal probably
surrendered to the sharks.
* * * * *
“Nor’-west”: That yarn about sharks
refraining from attacking a black man
never got much of a hearing along the
W.A. pearl coast.
The niggers knew
better. But they
were always ready to
take a reasonable
chance. The saving
grace about the aver-
age shark is that it
seldom attacks at the
bottom, or even in
mid-water, seeming
to prefer to wait
until the intended
victim nears the sur-
face. And, again, a
shark almost always
betrays its presence
by exposing a fin, or
even a stretch of
hide, as it turns
about just under the
surface. With sharks
visible few colored
skin-divers would go
down. Knew one
nigger who had just
gone over the side
when a big white
pointer came cruis-
ing around. Despite
that a vigorous
splashing was made
by those in the
dinghy, the sea tiger
took his leg just
below the knee.
Given first-aid a
rope tourniquet ruth-
lessly twisted with
a tomahawk handle —he survived to
tell the tale. A common trick among
skin-divers when a rival boat happened
along and prepared to butt-in on a good
bed of shell was to toss overboard a few
slices of bacon. That brought the sharks
around immediately, and with several fins
showing not all their boss’s eloquence
and profanity could convince the in-
truder’s niggers that a shark wouldn’t
attack a black man.
* * * *
“J. 8.”: Rip tides are not peculiar to
King Sound (B. 4/10/’39). On the n.-e.
Australian coast tides rush up the creeks
that narrow rapidly upstream with the
force of tidal waves. Just north of St.
Lawrence (C.Q.) the tide rises so sud-
denly and violently that during railway
construction there it was necessary to
have lookouts posted about tide-turn at
the bends along the creek for upwards of
a mile downstream to pass word along
for the gangs to clear out of the creek-
bed when the incoming tide, in a great
wall of water, layer on layer, would come
sweeping in. More than one girder not
properly anchored was swept away.
* * * *
“Mulyan”: A peculiarity of water-
birds is that they never enter their nests
without first shaking their feet. Dot-
terels and water-hens have the foot-clean-
ing instinct ingrained in them perhaps
more than any other birds. Each foot
in turn is shaken vigorously backwards,
whether it is wet or has only a bit of
grass or sand on it, before the bird steps
over the threshold of the nest. Neither
is the custom neglected when the feet are
dry and clean. Land birds and tree birds
go straight on to their nests, never worry-
ing about their feet even in wet weather.
Coots and water-hens make a raft nest of
reeds, and a curious thing about the
nursery is a rough stairway, also com-
posed of reeds, leading up to it from the
water. This makes it easy for the bird
after swimming to the nest to step out of
the water without damaging or tilting the
raft. Generally, the owner stands a while
at the top of the, stairs, preening and
drying, finally shaking the feet, before
going “indoors.”
* * * :>
“Quareef”: During the past 15 months
many new seasonal records were created
in that capricious area West o’ the Dar-
ling. Winter of 1938 was a sustained
drought, spiced with record cold tem-
peratures. October produced a freak
rainstorm that lasted four days and care-
fully confined itself to an area approxi-
mating 100 by 150 miles. Some stations
in this favored belt received up to 7in.,
yet outside it the drought continued.
Summer set thermometers dancing like
heat-pulses on scorched horizons. Heat
records registered to-day toppled to-
morrow. The unbroken sequence of
broiling days caused not only heavy stock
and bird mortality but garnered many
human lives. Its persistent potence is
visualised by perusing six successive days
of shade-registrations at Pernawilla sta-
tion. They read 111, 114, 117, 122, 125,
127 degrees respectively. Next day was
cold—a mere 108 deg.! Feb. 25, ’39,
mobilised a deluge which dispelled not
only heat-waves, drought and all existing
flood records, but, in one night, devas-
tated most of the devices, obstructions
and creations that man had taken two
generations to build! March, April and
May were astonishingly wet. Then
winter sulked, withholding both rain and
extreme cold. But, lo! the equinoctial
gales have abated a month too early. A
tense waiting pervades land and air. Is
Fate fomenting some fresh atmospheric
idiosyncrasy? Shall we instal a Maginot
Line or flee the country?
BOUNDARY-RIDER.
The sun is a boundary-rider;
He begins as the stars cease to gleam
On a station whose limits are wider
Than a mortal can fathom or dream.
From the newly-flushed east he advances,
And the great drowsy bushland awakes
To the light and the warmth of his glances
As the long track to westward he takes.
His gaze sweeps along the horizon,
Probing secrets of fastness and peak,
As unresting he turns his keen eyes on
Each valley and gully and creek.
(Though it seems to the men who are toiling
On the plainland unsheltered at noon
That the rider his quartpot is boiling
By celestial tank or lagoon.)
So, on through the hours he is steering,
Never drawing a rein by the way;
Passing on until “knock-off” is nearing
And our feathered mates call it a day.
Then, as darkly the shadows are creeping
And the wild things returning to rest,
With the young night across the land
\ sweeping,
His campfire glows .red in the west.
Maoriland.
C. H. WINTER.


“Wang”: “The queerest pet I ever
knew a bloke keep wus a goanna,” re-
marked Dan. “It belonged to a mate of
mine when we had a contrack dam-
sinkin’. Joe, me mate, wus terrible proud
of his scaly pet, ’count of its bein’ able
t’ play tunes. Fact! One day it scoffed
a tin-whistle what Joe’d left lyin’ near
a lump of meat. The whistle got
caught somewhere in the go.’s in-
nards, an’ he couldn’t hawk it up
agen. But it didn’t seem t’ do him
no harm; in fact, the blasted reptile
seemed t’ be proud of havin’ it in his
innards when he found hisself bein’ made
a fuss of an’ exhibited be Joe whenever
any body’d come to our camp. He’d sit
on a log with his ugly mug open,
breathin’ in an’ out, an’ that ’ere instru-
ment in his comic cuts’d whistle like a
whole cageful of canaries goin’ at once.
Joe wus offered a big price fer him by
a travellin’ showman, but he wouldn’t
part with his pet. But he had t’ in the
finish, an’ didn’t get a razoo. Finished
him orf with an axe. Y’see, it was either
’im or us. You’ve heard how snakes love
music. Well, when George the go. got
lettin’ hisself go properly that there
whistlin’ of his useter bring all the snakes
slitherin’ t’ the camp fer miles around t’
listen to him!”
* * * *
“J.W.G.”: One would have expected
that with the coming of closer settlement
most of the native flora and fauna would
disappear, but on the N.S.W. irrigation
areas the opposite has been the case. The
Riverina district now abounds with hares,
possums, foxes and water-rats. Strangely,
the rabbit has ceased' to be a pest. On
the Murrumbidgee even the almost-
extinct platypus has reappeared. Every
dense clump of trees on the non-irrigable
land is an aviary, while the larger swamps
filled by drainage water are a haven for
almost all kinds of waterfowl. Native
seedling trees and shrubs grow profusely
on the pasture lands, and in their season
many varieties of wildflowers bloom.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Anyone who has
knocked about the bush at night must
have heard the low piping whistle that is
generally attributed to a species of tree-
lizard. To prove definitely its source is
a different story, as the note has a ven-
triloquial quality which keeps the seeker
after knowledge guessing—until he gets
“warm” ; then the sound stops altogether.
Not generally known, however, is the
fact that a blue-tongue can make a simi-
lar whistle. Burning-off scrub one day I
was mystified to account for the con-
tinuous piping ; then the fire died down,
and up against a stump I found a badly-
scorched “bluey.” Evidently the lizard
had been hibernating in the stump I
stacked the scrub against, and, ringed
with fire, it was whistling its terror.
* * * *
“Turon River”: It was a six-stand
shed, and we were a man short, so that
when the battered-looking stranger rolled
up and asked for a job the boss, after
eyeing with some misgivings his flat nose
and cauliflower ears, gave him a start
sweeping up. Bill hadn’t swept up above
one pound of wool before he treated that
shed to a spasm of real action; the
toughest shearer in the place—and the
“gun” to boot —went hurtling the full
length of the shed, dead to the world and
with Bill’s peach of a left-hook cuddling
his chin. Then the boss landed and went
into action. “Get out!” he bellowed.
“This is a shearin’-shed, not a flamin’
stadium.” Then, doubtless realising that
the fallen one was a cranky coot, and
that Bill might have had provocation, he
changed his tone. “Wait a bit. What
happened? Why did you sock him?”
“I’ll tell yer,” Bill said in the slow, thick
speech of the punch-drunk. “I’m sweep-
in’ the board where he shears like yer
told me, see? I’m gettin’ it all clean an’
“But I tell you J gave it the very slightest tap!”
doin’ fine when that big gorilla comes
chargin’ backwards outa a pen draggin’
a sheep, knocks the broom outa me
hands, walks all over me feet an’ then
tells me ter git ter hell outa the road —
me git outa his road, mind yer! Cripes,
he’s lucky I didn’t kill him! ”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Tell “Skull Creek” (B.
4/10/’39) that one of the toughest, most
willing little horses I ever saw (and I’ve
seen a few) was Sunday, known as the
last of the brumbies on Prill Park sta-
tion 20 years ago. A nuggety little bay
with a slightly bumble foot, Sunday did
his job in ration-cart and wagon, or
under the saddle, with the best on the
station. Some of the old hands around
Euston may remember him.
* * * *
“Waranbini”: Most of the poetry and
romance of the roads died with the
coaches and the horse- and bullock-teams,
ousted by the motors. Many of the big
wagons were famous. All had names ;
among those that created along the roads
west of the Darling River were “Nancy
Lee,” “Black-eyed Susan,” “Orange
Beauty,” “Star of the South,” “The Flirt,”
“You do that side, Ponsonby .”
“Eulo Queen,” “Blayney Lass,” “Lady-
bird,” “Molly Riley,” “Bonny Jean,”
“Dancing Fairy” and “Sweet Marie.”
Most of the wagons were ladies, but a
few bore such odd names as “No Lark
in Mud,” “While I Move I Creak,” “Here
We Are Again” and “Never Get Stuck.”
One turnout was called “Slow but Sure.”
On the last trip under that name the
owner sent a telegram to a storekeeper
that the loading would arrive on a cer-
tain day. Through some misadventure
he arrived before the message. Thence-
forth his wagon was known as “The Tele-
gram.”
* * * *
“Bioko”: These “ologists” adopt an
air of positiveness when asserting that
because an abo. word resembles some-
thing in either Hindu or Egyptian the
abo. must be related to, or at least have
had contact with, those peoples. Some
Italian and Maori words are almost iden-
tical in spelling and in sound. Couldn’t
this have been brought about by the
first interpreters who converted the Maori
into a written language? Anyhow, why
shouldn’t similar environments of two
peoples (far removed geographically) pro-
duce similar customs, rituals and super-
stitions? If the physique (including the
formation of the vocal apparatus) of a
Malay and a Red Indian were similar,
why couldn’t each produce the same
sounds? Remarkably similar are some
of the words used by religious spell-
binders of far-flung races. Did the
pakeha evangelist copy the New Guinea
medicine man, or did the Maori tohunga
meet the voodoo man of Africa?
* * *
“No. 1”: That Barrier Reef prawn (B.
13/9/ ’39), or its twin brother, is appar-
ently also the nipper which inhabits
N.S.W. rivers and estuaries. They crawl
round on mudflats at low tide and crack
their larger nipper all night long. Fish
rush them with far more alacrity than
prawns, but as the body is very soft on
the hook only expert fishermen use them.
As for nasty cuts from prawn-tails, no-
thing is commoner amongst inexperienced
netters when they encounter the king
prawn, which folds its tail up and strikes
viciously when handled alive. The trade
trick is to grasp the prawn by the middle
of the back, thus paralysing muscular
movement.
* * * *
“Wendouree”: I can’t speak as to salt-
water fish having hospitals (B. 20/ 8/ ’39),
but anglers of the Izaak Walton school
believe that the fresh-water variety do
possess doctors. The main families of
British fresh-water are trout, perch and
tench —the last a largish fish of some-
what sluggish habit. Given sickness or
an injury a trout or a perch will leave its
own kind and seek out a tench, lying as
close as possible alongside the doctor fish.
This has been observed not only in quiet
lake and river pools, but also in
aquariums. What the treatment consists
of or how it is administered is a mystery,
but certainly the patient seems to derive
benefit. Perhaps it is a matter of tele-
pathy, now recognised as being the means
of communication between fish. Or
again it may be merely a matter of com-
pany and protection; the tench, being a
bottom feeder, keeps low on the floor of
the pool, not to be readily observed by
the predatory swift-swimming pike. This
explanation also serves for “F.A.W.’s”
hospital: his haul of invalids was made
in a quiet pool—just where sick and in-
jured fish would rest. Quiet pools often
have a muddy or silted-up bottom which
offers little in the way of food to healthy
hungry fish, and so doesn’t attract the
predatory varieties which would make
short work of the invalids.
“Sir Spen”: Tell “D.F. (B. 27/9/’39)
that his Emu Bay (Tas.) land isn’t in it
for timber density with the N.S.W. Pilliga
scrub. Forestry Officer W. M. Brennan
once counted on one single acre in that
area 4856 cypress pines, all with a girth
of 24in. or over ; trees with a smaller
girth, of which there were many, were
not counted. The acre selected was not
an exception, but was reckoned to repre-
sent approximately the average of
thousands of other acres thereabouts.
But even this would probably have to
bow to Canadian spruce or fir forests.
THE MYSTERY.
"Among the ‘reserved occupations’ announced by
the Minister for Defence is that of ‘willy house
worker’.”
Some thousands of jobs will debar
Their holders from ever enlisting;
By carrying on as they are
Their country they’re better assisting.
They range from “annealer” to “smith,”
In a list that will make you feel dizzy;
But here’s one—or is it a myth?—
A “willy house worker”—what is he?
His job could be done with a brush,
A tractor or pick for all we know;
His medium, soogee or plush
Or the skin of a calf or merino.
He might muck about with a die,
A battering-ram or a channel ;
He may graft in a collar and tie
Or moleskins and bowyangs and flannel.
We’ve a notion —obscure though it be—
What a “plierer” is, or a “flesher”;
A “bloom-chipper” is, you’ll agree,
An obvious trade, as is “thresher.”
But we’re stonkered on one spot of toil;
Is he swinger or digger or jerker?
Come, somebody, spill us the oil!
What the hell is a “willy house worker”?
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
“W.E.F.”: He was airing his know-
ledge of Bulletin writers in a George-
street pub. “Know Henry Lawson?” he
echoed in reply to an inquiry I had made.
“Too true I did. Why, I remember Harry
takin’ his pomes to Archibald when The
Bully was at the bottom of Pitt-street.
He was a fine-lookin’ bloke in those days,
was Harry. Had a big black
beard and used to come to
town in yellow moleskin
trousers and a grey flannel
coat, can-yin’ a stockwhip,
and with a cattle-dawg named
Bluey. ‘Read these,’ Harry
would say to Archie, tossin’
down some pomes, ‘and he
quick about it.’ Then he’d
go out and have two or three
pints, and come back. ‘Ain’t
you finished readin’ ’em yet?’
he’d roar at Archie, crackin’
his whip, while Bluey bit the
printer’s devil. ‘Yes, Harry,’
Archie would answer, quick
and scared-like ; ‘l’ll take ’em
all. Do you want your
money now?’ ‘Too blanky
right,’ Harry’d roar, and then
Archie’d open a drawer of his
desk which was full of gold
nuggets. ‘Take your pick,
Harr y,’ Archie’d sa y.
Harry’d grab a couple of
fair-sized nuggets to go on with, give an-
other crack and say ‘Come on, Bluey,
we’ve got to go and see George Robert-
son about the royalties on me new
book.’ ” “Really,” I said, “and who are
you?” “Me?” he replied. “I’m Larry-
the-Liar. How about a drink?” I paid.


&ym/iatheUc and
SERVICE
The Service tliat Tire Trustees Executors
& Agency Company Ltd. affords in tfxe cap-
acity of Executor and Trustee is not only
sympathetic and personal, hut also prompt
and efficient.
The Company has had over 61 years’ exper-
ience in estate administration, and offers expert
advice on all matters pertaining to trusts.
Charges are fixed and moderate.
Continuity in the administration of a Trust
is assured by the fact that the Company is
a corporate hody. It cannot die or leave the
country. It “Goes on for Ever.”
Full information will he afforded if you will
kindly write or call.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Lid.
1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
and at
401 & 403 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits, £961,115
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Lieut.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. T. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes
ADAMS 1 (TATTERS ALUS) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday. 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.15 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
The WILCAT
COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends *
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7£ p.c. Ordinary. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929'. .118,332 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 60,000 360,497
1930.. 73,742 9000 18,750 7 „ ~ 42,000 364,489
1931.. 49,973 9000 18,750 4 „ „ 24,000 362,712
1932.. 72,056 7750 15,234 5 „ ~ 30,000 381,784
1933.. 93,394 9000 18,750 8 „ „ 48,000 399,428
1934. .108,163 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 420,841
1935. .121,777 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60.000 454,868
1936. .146,148 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 60,000 513,266
Share premiums, £99,933.. .. .. 613,199
1937. .165,049 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 64,164 686,334
Share premiums, £67 .. .. . . 686,401
1938. .176,687 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 79,750 755,588
1939. .172,503 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 81,000 819,401
First prefs. reduced to 6 p.c. and seconds to 5.8 p.c.
under Interest Reduction Act from Oct. 1, 1931,
till July 31, 1932.
As buying agent for the community
he serves, the retailer’s success or other-
wise depends upon many things, the key-
note of which is service. This means,
among other things, (1) convenient
location of the store, (2) comfort, pleasure
and facility in shopping—brighter stores,
better display and a carefully-trained staff
—and (3) variety and quality of merchan-
dise and equity in prices, which have led
to closer study of family budgets, keener
buying and extensive and informative
advertising, etc. In all these matters
D.J.’s management has exhibited what
appears to be the right kind of vision
combined with practical care for detail.
For Sydney retailers generally, the .tide
of prosperity has been on the flood from
the third quarter of 1933 to the first
quarter of 1939. For the trade as a
whole sales reached their peak during
the last quarter of 1937, since when they
have continued to lose momentum, and
for the first time in 5\ years failed to
beat the figure for the corresponding
period of the previous year during the
June quarter of 1939.
D.J.’s experience appears to have been
above average. For the 12 months
covered by the latest accounts, turnover
was easily the best yet. The larger trad-
ing was due mainly to opening of the
new store diagonally opposite on the
corner of Market and Castlereagh streets,
shortly before the close of accounts in
1938. The apparent drop of £4124 in
net earnings for the 12 months to the end
of last July was due to heavier allowance
for depreciation (£58,907, up £13,321), a
more liberal contribution to the staff
fund (£lO,OOO, up £7139) and a supple-
mentary provision for taxation of
£15,000, making total provision £65,000,
which the chairman says will be enough
to cover Federal and State bills at
recently increased rates. The £172,563 of
profit shown in the table was enough
to pay both lots of pref. divs. (£27,750)
and leave 17.8 p.c. for the ords., as
against 18.5, 21.3, 19.7, 15.6, 13.5, 10.9,
8.7 and 3.7 p.c. back to 1931. The div.
was kept at 10 p.c., and, unless some-
thing very unexpected happens, doesn’t
look like being interfered with —for the
present, at any rate.
As for the current term, department
stores are likely to further replace some
of their imports by local manufactures,
owing to the rise in the cost of importing.
Last term the co.’s own factory supplied
it with goods worth £430,000 (cost), and
it bought another £1,900,000 worth from
other Australian manufacturers. The
biggest obstacle will be expanding operat-
ing and distributing costs, including taxa-
tion. There will be more money about,
owing to British purchase of our chief
exports and war expenditure at home.
Balance-sheet movements are encourag-
ing:—
1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. £1,125,957 £1,210,000 £1,210,000
Sundry creditors.. 278,097 419,754 391,878
Mortgages, etc. .. 602,207 752,581 652,215
Total liabilities. £880,304 £1,172,335 £1,044,093
Freeholds .. .. 1,302,369 1,596,360 1,600,047
Plant, etc. .. 351,966 519,467 488,262
Stocks .. .. 552,333 585,878 579,998
Book debts . . 400,752 435,318 433,962
Investments, cash, etc. 137,231 61,642 34,360
During the year £100,366 was lopped off
mortgages, etc., and the amount coming
to sundry creditors was reduced by
£27,876. Stocks were £5BBO lower, de-
spite larger turnover. Cash, etc., was only
£27,282 lighter. When the books closed
more or less liquids exceeded outside
liabilities by £4227, an improvement of
£91,724 over the twelvemonth.
Capital is in 150,000 first 6 p.c. and
250,000 second 1\ p.c. cum. prefs. and
810,000 Ords. Since the beginning of
1939 the ords. have fluctuated between
35s. and 31s. 6d. in the market. At
31s. 9d., the figure last week-end, the
return is 6.2 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
At 25s. and 28s. the firsts and seconds
yield 4.8 p.c. and 5.3 p.c. respectively.
The net tangible cover is £13 10s. 7d.
firsts, £7 10s. 4d, seconds and 40s. 2d.
ords.
Mauri Bros, and Thomson, Ltd.
, Dividends- ,,
f — : Prefs. * —Re —
June, Profit. 9 p.c. 10 p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 72,701 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 38,700 98,272
Portion of goodwill sold to subsi-
diary, £7140 .. .. .. 105,412
Transferred to contingency reserve,
£15,000 .. 90,412
1930.. 54,117 13,500 2190 10 p.c. = 25,800 103,039
Transferred to bad debts reserve,
£5000 98,039
F. A. Henriques, Ltd., absorbed;
added goodwill, £9384 .. .. 88,055
1931.. 43,412 13,500 2190 Nil 116,377
To tax reserve. £16,547 . . . . 99,830
Unexplained addition. £5925.. .. 105,755
Portion goodwill sold, £5588 . . 111,343
1932.. 48,919 11,222 1820 5 p.c. = 14,281 132,939
Added goodwill, etc., £816 . . . . 132,123
1933.. 44,096 10,463 1697 61 p.c.= 18,565 145,494
Intangibles disappear, £3292 .. 148,786
1934.. 56,836 13,500 2141 9 p.c. = 25,705 164,276
1935.. 70,170 13,500 2190 10 ,, ., 28,562 196,195
To contingency reserve, £5000 . . 191,195
1936.. 89,907 13,500 2190 15 p.c. == 42,843 222,569
To contingency reserve, £6000 .. 216,569
1937.. 93,240 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 251,276
Added intangibles, £1443 .. .. 249,833
1938.. 94,432 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 285,732
Added intangibles, £37 .. .. 285,695
1939.. 94,951 13,500 2190 15 p.c. = 42,843 322,113
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest 11 eduction Act from
October, 1931.
This well-handled co. trades under its
own name in Sydney, Brisbane and Auck-
land, as Harrison, San Miguel Pty. (a
wholly-owned subsidiary) in Vic., S. Aus.
and Tas., and as F. A. Henriques (another
subsidiary) in Westralia. Activities cover
a wide range, including manufacture of
yeast, vinegar, bottle-seals, supplies and
equipment for aerated-water manufac-
facturers, brewers, bottlers, bakers, con-
fectioners and restaurant- and hotel-
keepers. Also the co.’s extensive good-
will, the foundations of which were laid
over 60 years ago, is worth a lot more
than the £42,660 at which it figures in
the books.
For the last dozen years or more the
management has been steadily expanding
and consolidating the business by absorp-
tions and otherwise, to the benefit «of
shareholders. After ord. capital had been
doubled by the issue of £126,000 of bonus
scrip in 1926, the nominal rate of div.
was lowered from 20 p.c. to 15 p.c., and
remained steady till 1930, when it fell to
10 p.c. Though no div. was paid in the
following difficult year, the profit was
enough to meet the pref. requirements
and show 9.7 p.c. on ord. capital. Earn-
ings have since stepped along like a
thoroughbred, and the cautious board
advanced the div. from 5 p.c. in 1932 to
15 p.c. again in 1936, since when the rate
has remained steady with widening
margins.
After striking off £10,634 (up £2369)
for depreciation, and despite the rise in
wages and other costs, last year’s net
result (£94,951, up £519) was enough to
hand the prefs. their £15,690 and show
an attractive 27.7 p.c. on ord. capital, as
against 27.5, 27.2, 26, 21.2 and 14.4 p.c.
back to 1934. The high earning power of
capital suggests that assets are well worth
their book value, and the position might
be more attractive than it looks, because
profits of subsidiaries are revealed only
to the extent of dividends received. Also,
the wide margin between earnings and
distributions suggests that the div. isn’t
likely to be endangered, though the war
may interfere with some of the co.’s
imports, and stinging increases have
occurred in taxation and other costs.
There is nothing to cause any concern
in the finances : —■
1928. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital £429,900 £457,520 £457,520 £457,520
Sundry creditors 94,142 44,909 109,180* 127,290*
Freeholds .. 169,545 209,083 210,259 254,940
Plant, etc... 37,192 34,463 47,078 44,720
Shares subsid. } 8a ... 09 . nifi j 251,542 251,357
Loans subsid. j 88 ’ j44 224,016 22-012 29140
Stocks . . 128,845 82,231 132,487 122,670
Book debts.. 152,460 57,0-82 62,609 70,630
Mortgage . . 64,000 51,130 — —
Cash, etc. .. 8,837 94,130 162,851 169,873
* Includes provision for taxes, staff benefits and
contingencies.
Last term £44,681 was added to the book
value of freeholds, £7128 to loans to
subsidiaries, £8021 to debtors’ balances
and £7022 to cash, etc. To do all this
only £18,110 was tacked on to the amount
coming to sundry creditors, which in-
cludes provision for taxation and other
contingencies. Stocks were down £9817.
Excluding shares in and loans to subsi-
diaries, the contraction in the more or
less liquid surplus (£235,883) was £12,884.
The share capital is in 150,000 A 9 p.c.
and 21,900 B 10 p.c. cum. prefs., which
rank in the order stated for both capital
and divs., and 285,620 ords. The As at
33s. and the ords. at 67s. 6d. (62s. 6d. a
year ago) return 5.4 p.c. and 4.4 p.c. on
the basis of last year’s distributions. The
Bs seldom come on to the market. Sub-
ject to goodwill, etc., in the subsidiaries,
the net tangible cover is £5 3s. lid. As,
£28 14s. lid. Bs and 42s. 6d. ords.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, —Dividends —^
Pref. To Re-
June, Profit. 9 p.e. Ordinary, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929'. . 53,181 52,000 Nil 1,184 922
1930.. 39,943 40.000 Nil — 805
1931.. 35.607* 36,000 Nil — 472
1932.. 38,668 36,000 Nil 2,668 3,140
1933.. 57,496 52,000 Nil 5,496 8,636
8& p.e.
1934. . 50,472 36,000 6710 7.762 16,398
19.35.. 47,615 36,000 6710 4,905 21,303
1936.. 50,109' 36,000 6710 7,399 28,702
1937.. 48,658 36,000 6710 5,948 34.650
1938.. 60,304 36,000 6710 17,594 52,244
121 p.c.
1939. . 69,207 36,000 10,066 23,141 75,385
* Includes £29,376 paid by subsidiaries from reserves.
Subject to the effects upon the business
of increased taxation, rising costs and
other war factors, and of developments
within the trade itself, the outlook for
shareholders is more encourajging than
at any time since the present co. was
formed in 1922 to weld the interests and
lighten the debts (£400,000 of 9 p.c. pref.
money was gathered) of the two operat-
ing cos. —Lincoln Spinning Mills and
Lincoln Knitting Mills.
In 1925 16s. per share was lopped off
the holding co.’s ord. capital, reducing it
to £80,527 ; that was to cover fire losses
and rub out £80,000 of goodwill, etc.
For the next decade it was a struggle to
keep up payments to the prefs., owing to
heavy allowances for depreciation. These
allowances aggregated over £288,000
for the dozen years to the close of
accounts in 1937, when “the written-
down book value of plant and machinery
had reached a figure so low that further
provision upon a scale so generous was
unnecessary.” Hence the big lift in
1938 profits, and, since, plant had been
brought thoroughly up to date, thus in-
creasing the co.’s competitive power,
further improvement in earnings was
recorded last term, despite aggressive
competition, extra Government bleeding
and bigger wage and other bills.
Combining the trading figures of the
three cos., last term’s gross earnings
(£148,306) were Up £14,711. Exes.
(£7.9,099) took £5808 of the increase, leav-
ing the net result £8903 better at £69,207,
or enough to pay the pref. div. and
show 41.2 p.c. on ord. capital, as against
30.1, 15, 15.9, 14.4, 16.9 and 26 p.c. back
to 1933. The div. was lifted from 8 1-3
p.c. to YL\ p.c., and the £23,141 that re-
mained raised the visible lay-by to
£75,385. The allowance for depreciation
was £15,552 as against £14,890 in ’38,
when the auditors certified that the basis
of such allowance was a sound one for
adoption in those and future accounts.
As for the current term, much will
depend upon the extent to which competi-
tion, especially in the knitting section of
the business, allows the management to
pass on extra costs. An up-to-date plant,
conservatively valued in the books, ought
to mean much.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances these days, as the following
table, which combines the figures of the
three cos. in the group, shows: —
1930. 1932. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £480,527 £480,527 £480,527 £480,527
Outside lia-
bilities . . *197,242 41,248 62,811 *33,838
Freeholds .. 93.269 89,161 84,023 81,596
Plant . . 205,724 176,275 119,522 114,124
Stocks . . 310,171 215,48.3 324.078 341,805
Book debts, etc. 138,850 99,279 123,648 113.462
* Includes an unspecified provision for taxation.
The growth of £17,727 in stocks augurs
well for earnings for the current term.
Outside liabilities, which now include
provision for taxation again, are down
£28,973. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£421,429)
was £36,514. It all looks very encourag-
ing for the ords.
The market, doubtful as to what the
future might hold for the business, prices
the f.-p. 4s. ords. at 8s. as against 5s. 6d.
a year ago. At the higher figure the
immediate return is 6.2 p.c. on a 12j p.c.


" QUALCAST"
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
ẁ
MOTOR
MOWER
33
Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
Hundreds
have now
been, sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Quakast" Lawnmowers
MODEL “H”: lOin. 12in. 14in. 16in.
Bronze Bearing .. 38/- 41/- 44/-
Ball Bearing 44/- 47/- 50/- 537-
Super “7” Ball B. 56/- 60/- 647-
Country Freight Extra.
SOIjD AND RECOMMENDED BY
AEE LEADING HARDWARE STORES
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelyab,” Melbourne.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. .. £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street', E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
SSR SECUR/tS
INVEST THIS MODERN WAY
By Buying FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
CERTIFICATES you secure a “spread” for your
money over 20 leading Companies known through-
out Australia. You also obtain a yield of over
5 % p.a., potential capital appreciation and trustee
safeguards through the Union Insurance Society of
Canton, Ltd.
Booklet No. 1 is yours on request to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Telephone: 85294. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
“ Don't despair, for
“HERE WE COME!”
ti*
as®
mK.
ms&'h
PM
i
'mf
M
'M
*< F vf
■■m
mi
/ nm
\W-
Cr/ed the Drag-Free Drops
=#
A
(S
■
“I’m scorched and scored!’
He' gasped for breath —
“My head will split, ’twill be my death.
&
-N#
“Slippery, tough, these Drops know how!”
The pistons purr. “We’re oil right now!”
Q\l
W\CflOK
%
a
XJ
c>
%
b'
%
#
imirrmiMrii
‘Drain out the sump! Your oil’s too slow!
‘Here come the Drag-Free Drops. Let’s GO!”
3T
ir
/
»
~CJ
‘JFe always win, so YOU as well
‘Should buy the Drag-Free Oil—lt’s SHELL!”
CHANGE NOW
TO THE
ẃ
ẅ
SHELL
MOTOR
The Shell Company of Australia Limited (Incorporated in Great Britain)
OIL
L0.39/23 F.
1
div. basis. The pound prefs. at 245. 9d.
yield 7.3 p.c. The net tangible backing
is 28s. 6d. prefs. and Bs. 6d. ords.
Allan and Stark, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends ~
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> £ £> £ £
1929.. 25,931 3499 7 p.c. = 19,010 3422 24,010
1930.. 14,054 3499 5 „ „ 13,580 20,985
Loss.
1931.. 4,531 3500 Nil 12,954
Profit.
1932.. 3,432 3500 Nil 12,886
Loss. Deficit.
1933.. 12,397 1750* Nil 1,261
1934.. 21,113 Nil Nil 22,374
Reserves.
Capital written off, £27,161 .. .. 4,787
Assets written down, £4787 .. ..
Profit. 12.5 p.c.
1935.. 8,057 6250 f Nil 1807 1,807
5 p.c.
1936.. 8,295 2500 2 p.c. = 4,889 906 2,713
1937.. 4,534 2500 Nil 2034 4,747
1938.. 9,386 2500 2J p.c. = 6,111 775 5,522
Surplus on life policies, £735.. .. 6,257
1939.. 12,904 2500 21 p.c. = 6,111 4293 10,550
* Half-year, f Includes arrears.
There have been stinging increases in
taxation, costs are on the up-grade, and
the Federal Government has set up a
price-control scheme, the direct effect of
which might be felt less by drapery than
by many other traders. On the other
hand, there promises to be a lot more
money about, owing to Britain’s pur-
chase for the duration of the war of our
surplus wool, butter, cheese, sugar, meat,
eggs and canned and dried fruits at very
satisfactory prices, and to our own de-
fence expenditure. Much will depend
upon the extent to which the manage-
ment is able to curb costs.
During the half-dozen years to the
close of accounts in 1930, the business
expanded by absorptions and otherwise,
including the development of mail-
order connections in the country, and
shareholders averaged a shade over 7 p.c.,
with little to spare. For the next four
years the net trading result was a loss
of £34,609. Then the tide turned, and
2s. per share was lopped off ord. capital
and the pref. div. was lowered from 7
p.c. to 5 p.c., thus clearing the way for
resumption of ord. divs. But keen com-
petition from chain and other stores has
been encountered, and the management
has been unable to squeeze much profit
out of the business.
Last term gross earnings (£141,313)
improved £7319. Exes. (£128,409) took
£3BOl of the increase, leaving enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 4.2 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 2.8, 0.8, 2.3 and
2.2 p.c. for the four preceding terms.
The div. was kept at 2\ p.c.
Balance-sheet figures suggest con-
tinued expansion of the business:
1930. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £321,615 £294,454 £294,454 £294,454
Mortgages, etc. 82,925 86,993 67,032 64,014
Sundry creditors 52,467 37,851 47,647 45,350
Premises & plant 231,972 220,886 213.841 211,005
Stock . . .. 162,977 131,342 138.598 132,401
Shares other cos. 21,296 21,546 21,546 21,546
Investments .. 550 550 550 550
Book debts .. 62,063 41,727 46,921 54,876
Cash, etc. .. 4,042 6,803 1,295 1,350
A growth of £7955 in debtors’ balances
was accompanied by a contraction of
£6197 in stocks and of £5315 in outside
liabilities. Excluding shares in other
cos., which represent the holding in
Stuparts, Maryborough (it paid 4 p.c. in
38 and looks like repeating it for ’39),
the year’s improvement in the more or
less liquid surplus (£79,813) was £7128.
Doubtful of the effect of costs upon
earnings, the market prices the 18s.-paid
ords. at Bs. 9d. (10s. a year ago), at
which figure the return is 5.7 p.c. on a
2j p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 18s. 6d.
yield 5.4 p.c. The net tangible backing
is £6 2s. prefs. and 18s. 9d. ords.
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd.
Formed in 1928 and now under Anglo-
Oriental control, this Malayan producer
represents a merger of the old Kuala
Kampar, Malim Nawar South and Tan-
jong Tualing cos., in the Kinta Valley.
Since the close of last accounts the under-
taking of Malim Nawar Tin, sluicing
south of Ipoh, has also been acquired.
Consideration was 60,000 f.-p. 10s. Kuala
Kampar shares. The acquisition, which
took effect as from April 1, increases
the Kampar co.’s assessment by 357 tons
t.o. p.a., making it 1884 tons, and to
dredging reserves adds approx. 26,000,000
c.y., averaging 0.451 b. t. 0., portions of
which lie in fairly deep ground, contain-
ing patches of cemented peat and clay
and buried timber.
In the Kampar leases there was
198,225,000 c.y. of 0.421 b. wash still
remaining to be dug at March 31 down
to 90ft.; below that there is a further
25,000,000 c.y. of 0.741 b. dirt. A new
dredge to handle this deeper ground is
expected to commence digging towards
the end of 1939. Equipped with 18-c.f.
buckets, it will be one of the largest
plants in Malaya, and will dig to 130 ft.
Final cost is put at £230,000 stg., portion
of which will have to be met by over-
draft, which may stand in the way of
divs. for a while ; £145,492 had been ex-
pended on the unit at March 31.
Combined capacity of the two exist-
ing dredges, both highly efficient low-
cost producers, is 570,000 c.y. monthly.
The wash is mostly easy-dredging, free
from obstructions, with ample water
available. Performances over the last
three years compare this way:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Free quota, p.c... 68.7 73.7 29.6
Cubic yards dug .. 6,804,000 6,097,000 5,415,000
T. 0., tons .. 1165 5 1040.7 626.8
Average per c.y.,
pound .. .. 0.37 0.38 0.26
Assay, p.c. .. .75.5 75.5 75.5
Costs per c.y.,
pence .. .. 1.6 *2.45 *2.11
Net ore realisa-
tion, ton . . £132/9/7 £l4O/2/7 £123/14/8
Singapore av. metallic
tin, ton .. £207/6/7 £2lB/2/2 £192/14/11
* Including provision new bucket-line.
After allowing £15,000 for depreciation,
etc., and earmarking £3151 for new
bucket-lines, raising that provision to


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
• Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
£; B - B ryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddom K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY EOOKLET .)
SHAREHOLDERS
IN
N.Z. FOREST PRODUCTS LIMITED
You have received your Directors’ ANNUAL REPORT
and BALANCE SHEET for 1939.
In your own interests you should read it very carefully
as the information it contains is of the utmost importance
to you, particularly as to the:
1 •—Soundness of the Company’s financial position.
2. —Maintenance and utilisation of the Forests.
3. —Adjustment of issues and consolidation of shares.
4. —Parting with shares.
Should' you desire any further information please
communicate with—
HEAD OFFICE
N.Z. FOREST PRODUCTS, LIMITED,
AUCKLAND, N.Z.
Australian Agent:
H. A. HAMBLY, Vaughan House, Queen Street, Melbourne
or
GLADSTONE’S PTY., LTD.,
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 53-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Idle Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
New BETTER WAY
TO CLEAN
FALSE TEETH
‘I really think in all my experi-
ence that ‘Steradent’ is the finest pro-
duct I have used,’ writes a Dentist.
This is typical of the professional
opinion of hundreds of dentists now
recommending ‘Steradent’ to their
patients as the finest preparation ever
produced for keeping dental plates
clean and hygienic. Simply fill the cap
of the tin with ‘ Steradent ’ and pour the
powder into a glass containing suffi-
cient warm water (not hot) to cover
the dentures. Stir well. Leave your
dentures in it while you dress, or over-
night. Just rinse, and teeth and plates
are fresh and clean—clean where the
brush can’t reach.
‘ Steradent ’ cleans away the blackest stains,
film and tarnish. Makes dull teeth and dis-
coloured gums look like new. Makes them
w
fresh, cool, comfort-
able. Use ‘Steradent'
and you will enjoy a
denture comfort and
cleanliness heretofore
unknown. Price 2/-
and 3/6 at all chemists.
IMPORTANT:
Be sure you get
‘Steradent’. Dentists
recommend it.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LTD.
( Pharmaceutical Dept.), Sydney.
Steradent
cleans and sterilizes false teeth
ENDURA
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
AND PENCILS
Many things bloom and look
well when first brought into
contact with everyday affairs,
but fade and droop after the
first encounter with Life. The
Conklin “Endura” Fountain
Pen is not one of these —no
wilting or turning back for it.
Handsome and beautifully
symmetrical, it enjoys the “ups
and downs” because the ordi-
nary ones—the everyday trials
—leave it unharmed. Some
disasters are, however, too
great for it to resist. Against
these, and accidents of any
kind, the Conklin “Endura”
owner is protected by an un-
conditional guarantee of free
repairs.
Conklin Endura Pens
and Pencils
are dedicated to never-ending
service and are unconditionally
guaranteed against accidents or
breakages of any kind.
The Pens are priced at
30/- and 40/- each.
Pencils to match at 25/-.
Complete Sets in Presentation
Cases, 55/- and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen Ink
—the best for every pen—4oz.
bottles in all colours, 1/- per
bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewellers,
and Departmental Stores.
A* %
£16,610, result of last term’s operations
was a loss of £llO3 stg.:
Vear to , —Surplus— v Divs. N
Mar., Revenue. Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
£S d£S £S £S
1937. .165,813 84,227 81,586 1/5 1/3 73,125
1938. .145,181 79,107 66,074 1/1$ 1/- 58,500
Deficit.
1939.. 50,380 51,483 1,103 -/2 9,750
* Including' depreciation—l 937, £16,244 ; 1938,
£15,797; 1939, £15,000.
That excludes whatever profit there may
be in the contribution of 60f tons of
tin metal to buffer-pool stocks, taken into
the accounts at cost of production. The
div. was cut to 2d. per share, and another
2d. is to go out on Nov. 2.
Effect on share prices of the further
rise in the international tin quota to
120 p.c. for the third quarter of 1939,
making it double the figure first fixed
early in September, appeared to be damp-
ened by fixation of the fourth quarter’s
quota at 70 p.c. That, however, appears
only a tentative figure.
With the shares issued to Malim
Nawar, Kuala Kampar now has a paid
capital of £615,000 in 10s. shares, priced
in the market at 175., as against 12s. 9d.
a month ago. At balance date the
co. held more or less liquids of £92,505
and owed £26,350, excluding balance pay-
able on the new dredge.
Freney Oil (W.A.) has closed its Adel-
aide branch office, where very few of the
23,000 reserve shares recently offered
at par were applied for. Most of
the issue was placed in Perth. After a
visit to the bore site, Dr. Wade stated
that, although drilling had started,
thorough testing of an oilfield often re-
quired many bores ; he instanced cases
where 70 holes had been drilled in
Sumatra, and 37 in California, before suc-
cess was achieved. The market is not
excited over the co.’s prospects.
* * * *
The quicksilver mine at Kilkivan (Q.)
is now being worked by Q.S. Mines, with
Dr. MacDonald Moore directing opera-
tions on the field. Ore occurs in both
placer and vein formation, the latter in
volcanic rock. Rich values, up to 3 p.c.
mercury, occur throughout the volcanic
formation in thin seams or joints, but the
ore won as firsts and seconds runs 50-50
approximately, the seconds ranging from
i p.c. to. 1 p.c. values. Retorting has
been successfully carried out locally, but
there is a proposal to send the higher-
grade ore abroad for recovery tests. That
the district is not producing the bulk
of Australia’s requirements appears to be
due chiefly to the scattered dissemination
of values. Finally, it looks like resolving
into treatment of low-grade mercury
rock formation supplemented by the
richer veins.
* * * *
Attempts to open up Nolan’s Creek
mine, near Mungana (N.Q.), on a larger
scale have brought forth a depressing
report from C. C. Morton, district Gov-
ernment geologist. The claim to a sdwt.
lode, 100 ft. wide, is neatly brushed aside as
a mineralised belt with gold values too
low to be of interest. The ore, which
is very complex, is said to be only in
localised shoots carrying heavy mineral.
It’s an uncommon mixture of gold,
arsenic, bismuth and a little cobalt, and
evidently earns a fat penalty at the
smelters. The verdict that it’s not good
enough for company operations seems
to be fairly earned. Nolan’s Creek has a
long history, and two well-known iden-
tities in Alex. Macdonald and Albert
Shaw have dabbled in it at different
times.
* * * *
Wandoo, out from Mungana (N.Q.),
was one of the late Alex. Macdonald’s
pets, and was the last show on which
he got a backing of British capital. It
still figures in a small way in the gold
returns; but after Macdonald had
finished Fred Reid came in and took the
cream off it. The last monthly return
was 28 tons of ounce ore, and it looks
as if anything over an ounce takes a lot
of finding nowadays.
* * * *
At June 30 last Lancefield’s current
assets totalled £130,243, of which cash
accounted for £53,000, Australian bonds
£38,000, gold on hand £19,674, and stores
£17,572. Working costs figured at 225. Bd.
a ton. Including £41,661 spent on de-
velopment, diamond drilling and the deep
inclined tunnel, expenditure averaged
28s. 7d. a ton. The north drive on the
lode at No. 13 level has been extended
880 ft. north of the plat, and continues
to show ore of payable value. This de-
velopment (the drive has been advanced
113 ft. in the last couple of months) is
expected to increase ore reserves sub-
stantially. Value of total production
since the co. commenced operations in
March, 1935, is £1,210,087 from 498,469
tons.
* * * *
Paringa, which came on to the list of
Westralian div.-payers last year and has
since added the Block 45 and North Kal-
gurli Central mines to its holdings, esti-
mates proved and part-developed ore
at 397,056 long tons, averaging sdwt.
The proved stuff accounts for 328,336
(up 110,024) tons, grade being 5.32dwt.
The co. milled 70,434 tons in the year
ended August for a return of 445. a
ton ; head values were s.4dwt. and re-
coveries approx. 4j ’weights. Doubling
of capacity of the mill, now handling
7000 tons a month, is under considera-
tion. Chairman C. S. Beale, of London,
was recently on the mine.
* * * *
Commenting on the Gladiator, about
four miles west of Laverton (W.A.),
K. R. Miles, one of the Government
geologists, says the co. will have to de-
pend almost entirely on the main lode for
payable ore —at least in the early stages
of production. Auriferous ore in the
West lode is likely to be very low-grade
and irregular in occurrence. He considers
there is a possibility of finding parallel
lodes in the jaspilite band to the east of
the Gladiator line, which might extend
further north and south from the points
to which it has been developed. For the
nine months to the end of August the co.
treated 16,992 tons for 41650 z. gold,
valued at £38,947, of which working exes,
took £34,223 and development £6649,
leaving the balance £1925 on the wrong
side.
* * * *
After drawing five auriferous blanks
in Westralia during the last seven years,
Carbine believes that it now has a prize
at Ora Banda, where it has. obtained
free working options until May, 1940,
over two adjoining 24-acre leases near
Grant’s Patch, where the co. is prospect-
ing the Bellevue lease. Where exposed,
the reef is reported 4ft. wide, and samples
have assayed up to 2oz. a ton in places.
On the strength of all this there has been
a sharp rise in the price of the scrip
on the market, though a lot more work
needs to be done before any definite idea
as to the value of the property can be
had.
* * * *
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.) handled
639,280 tons of the old Gt. Boulder
dumps in the year to September 30 last.
That was 11,800 tons less than in the ’3B
term; but recoveries averaged Bs. 2d. a
ton Aust., as against 6s. Id., and a work-
ing surplus on joint account of
£A 166,500 (up £63,600) is indicated. In
the market the co.’s 3s. shares have
moved from 3s. 9d. to 4s. 7d. over the
last few weeks. Surplus liquids a year
ago ran to 3s. 6d. a share.
* * * *
Ora Banda Amalgamated (W.A.) is
steadily climbing the golden stairs. De-
velopments look promising ; ore reserves
are increasing, the output is likely to
move up shortly, and regular divs. are
looked for. The co. made four three-
penny distributions last year, and will do
the same this term, while a higher rate
is expected later on.
* * * *
Livesey Gold Mines, N.L., formed in
Adelaide when Paddy Whelan’s alleged
find at the back of the beyond in West-
ralia was booming, is now investigating
an area on the Nullagine goldfield (W.A.).
Other Adelaide interests are also nosing
around in the same locality.
* . * * *
“O.B.”: Roughly 24,000,0000 z. of gold
and 2,000,000-odd ounces of silver have
been dug out of mines along the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile (W.A.). Nearly all
this wealth has come from three lines of
lodes. The western runs through
Hannan’s Star, Chaffers, Golden Horse
Shoe, Ivanhoe (now included in the Lake
View holding) and Great Boulder; on
the middle series is Lake View block,
Boulder Perseverance, South Kalgurli
and Hainault; the third and most
easterly line runs through Associated,
Kalgurli, North Kalgurli and the old
Oroya, Associated Northern and Brown-
hill blocks. The mines in the western
lodes, which have been the most per-
sistent and least refractory, will prob-
ably have the longest life.
* * * *
Iron-ore deposits which in size and
grade are said to rival those at Yampi
have been pegged at Koolyanobbing, on
the Yilgarn field (W.A.). Altogether 400
acres have been applied for, and are
reckoned to contain close on 100,000,000
tons of high-grade ore. Though the de-
posits have long been known to exist, only
recently were they measured by the State
Geological Survey Department.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.


LET
ATLAS i
CARRY THE
( BURDEN j
V
*
€3
fevjSfe
j\sv\3\W\.
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensla: d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South A'is. Branch: Way mouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbouqpe.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
SMOKE-OH!
“What is Australia doing about gas attacks?”
asks a correspondent.
Taking bicarb, of soda, as usual.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How can one discover how many relatives
one has?”— lnquirer in weekly paper.
Take a seaside cottage for the summer
holidays.
■4* •h •!*
“Outside the ring wrestlers are quite normal
human beings.”— Sporting gossip.
It’s when they crawl back in and start
arguing that they fly off the handle.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A watch is useless at the North or the South
Pole.” — “Truth.”
And it’s doubtful if they’ll ever have
pawnshops there.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Milk will clean the keys of a piano.”
—“ S.M.H.”
Enabling the pianist to skim over them
more easily.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How can the plain woman make herself
look beautiful?” — Women’s mag.
She could appear at the kitchen door
with a nicely-cooked apple-pie in her
hands.
4* 4 1 4* 4 1 '
This Sydney theatre ad. speaks for it-
self : “Love Affair” ; “Idiot’s Delight.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Does your stomach interfere with your
work?” — Advt.
Well, it keeps many an alderman away
from his desk.
4* 4* 4* 4 1
“Woman receives £l5OO a year for talking
silly over the wireless.” — Radio mush.
At that rate, our politicians are grossly
underpaid.
•F 4* 4* 4•
“You know as much as I do.”
—“The Watchman’s” substitute.
Many listeners will resent this.
4* 4* *l* *l*
“What is an enigma?” asks correspondent.
A 8.8. C. Overseas News Bulletin.
Most night-watchmen can boast that
they never do an honest day’s work.
•P 4* *l* *l*
When crossed in love, some women
take it to heart, others to court.
•|« *l*
Even the girl with dreamy eyes is
generally wide awake to marriage
chances.
•j» 4* 4* 4*
“The squire, little realising that she was
attracted by his vast property, soon fell a
victim to her advances.” — Magazine story.
A landed squire!
“There are two sides to every argument.”
— Women’s mag.
The right one and the side married
men take.
•J* »|»
“What have modern poets got that Shak-
speare didn’t have?” — Literary journal.
Unpaid electric-light accounts.
4* 4*
“Should a politician retain business connec-
tions whilst he is in Parliament?” — Article.
Why not? After all, he’s got to have
some interest in life.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Wedlock is a padlock to most men.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What would you call circumstantial evi-
dence?’) asks correspondent.
A trout in the milk billy.
Dedication.
As I pen this humble ode to thy spirit
now departed,
Fond memories arise of the joys that
once l knew —
Those rapturous nights of gladness that
made me so light-hearted
When I caressed you tenderly and gave
my lips to you.
As I bore you ’cross the threshold, you
nestled in my arms;
You brought with you a peace that
was heavenly serene.
But, alas ! you lie before me now, bereft
of all your charms,
For, after all, what earthly use are you
—a dead marine ?
Paton.
Method.
“The wife who is without method is hopeless.
Fortunately, however, most wives have effective
methods.” —“ D.T.”
“Aitchem,” said Maria sternly, “I
wonder how you dare look me in the
face! Now, don’t prevaricate—let me
tell you. I know all about it, every detail.
I don’t know what I am going to do yet;
my friends will think me a fool if I over-
look this. It looks like the end to me.”
Naturally, although my conscience was
moderately clear, I felt uncomfortable.
She might, after all, have stumbled on
some trivial lapse.
“What in the dickens have I been doing
now?” I asked heatedly.
“Now, don’t bluff! There’s nothing so
despicable as hypocritical bluff when a
man is bowled out. You should be
ashamed of yourself!”
“Ashamed!” I roared. “What have I
done?”
“Don’t shout at me; I won’t stand it
for a minute,” said Maria sharply. “In-
stead of going on like that you should
be down on your bended knees begging
my forgiveness. There’s no need for-
me to tell you what you have done ; you
know well enough what I mean—l can
see it in your guilty face.”
“I tell you there is nothing”
“Aitchem! Don’t lie to me—you
only make matters worse. I wonder you
dare talk about the matter at all! It
shows how brazen you are.”
That was only the start. An hour
later Maria was not a bit more definite.
The upshot is that she is going to get
a cut for a dress out of that cheque I
was damfool enough to let out I was
expecting. . , ,
Wives have effective methods, all right.
H.M.
Developments Abroad.
Mondaf : “It is reported from Berlin
that a terrific air battle between R.A.F.
and German fighters took place near the
"Jusl as I suspected , Martha."
Dutch border this afternoon. The com-
munique states that seventeen of the
R.A.F. squadron were shot down, while
all the German machines returned safely
to their bases.”
Tuesday : “A Famous American Corre-
spondent states that the air battle which
took place near the Dutch frontier yester-
day has been considerably exaggerated in
Berlin. Actually four R.A.F. reconnais-
sance ’planes engaged six German
bombers, of which three were destroyed.
The R.A.F. suffered one casualty.”
Wednesday: “It is believed that the
large air battle said to have taken place
on Monday was merely a dogfight be-
tween one allied and one German
machine. Both escaped without damage.”
Thursday: “It is now definitely estab-
lished that the air battle said to have
occurred near the Dutch border earlier
in the week was a thunderstorm.”
T. W. N.
The Purge.
(A Russian Propaganda Play.)
Act I ( continued).
Dramatis Persons.
Ivan Orfelkoff ... A Collectivist Farmer
Yubitsch ....... . His Wife
Scratchuss Iymitchi His Suicide-
complexed Grandfather
Serge Suitski An O.G.P.U. Agent
Nickoff Karntya .. A Trotskyist Wrecker
Chorus of “Liquidators” and Body-
Burners.
Sf.rge : Times are hard, comrade ; hard
as goats’ knees, especially since these
mass purges started. Before that 1 used to
make as much as eight roubles a month
at gravedigging. Talk about prosperity!
Solo: Serge.
In the good old days most comrades
wriggled out,
Tucked up in bedski, often with their
boots off.
N on-violently did they go up the spout ;
Some wog or other mostly took the
coots off.
I lived then like a toff. My oathski, yes !
I banqueted on curried-dog, no less.
But now my economic outlook’s bleak,
For everyone gets bumped off as a felon.
They’re herded up in hundreds every week,
And each one cops a bullet through
the melon.
No wonder misery’s written on me phiz—
The body-burners now get all the biz.
Ivan: You say you are a gravedigger?
But you’re dressed in the uniform of
an O.G.P.U. agent.
Serge (aside, in stage-whisper): By the
bones of Lenin, this comrade is
clever at deduction. That makes him
doubly dangerous. I must tread warily,
curse him! (Aloud): I had to adopt
this disguise. It is the O.G.P.U I am
escaping from. They’d never think of
looking for me in these trappings.
Nickoff: How came you by the
uniform, comrade?
(Serge, pretending to look round cautiously,
draws his finger across his throat .)
Trio: Serge, Ivan and Nickoff.
Serge:
A dark night and a dirk was all I needed ;
And to make certain that l wouldn’t
mull it
I domihoed him first, and then proceeded
Quite leisurely to open up his gullet.
Ivan :
To settle Ogpu rats with mo’s a mission.
The last — ha! ha! —I was constrained
to strangle.
And, to ensure there’d be no recognition,
I later ran the body through the
mangle.
Nickoff :
You, comrades, are mere amateurs at
killing.
Secret police I drug; and then, quite
placid,
A quart or two of vodka I’ll be swilling,
While watching them dissolve in nitric-
acid.
All:
It gives us all a feeling of elation
When indulging in our favorite recreation
To see a secret agent’s body sag
And afterwards to dump it in a bag.
Yubitsch : You say you were compelled
to flee the secret police. What for?
Serge : A mourner gave me a tip of half
a rouble, and instead of sending it to
the Commissar I pocketed it. I found
out later it was a trap.
Ivan: Well, let’s drink to the damnation
of the hated O.G.P.U. You seem to
be one with us, Serge. ( Pours out an-
other pannikin of vodka.)
(Scratchuss goes to dive eagerly on the
drink that’s half-filled with prussic acid,
but Yubitsch, who suspects Serge, reaches
it first and hands it to the disguised agent.
They all drink.)
Serge: I’ve been drinking vodka since
I was three weeks old, but that stuff's
got the best kick of any I’ve ever
tasted.
Ivan (beaming): I made it myself. It
just proves my contention that you
must fortify your offal before you
distil it.
Serge: I’ll get the recipe before I go if
you don’t mind. It’s great stuff, right
enough.
Ivan {swelling with pride); Certainly. In
fact, you can finish off the bottle here
while Nickoff and I are pulling the
tractor to pieces. Yesterday we hap-
pened to run over Nicoli, the collec-
tivist rouseabout, and he’s gummed the
works up. Now, Yubitsch, get along
and do your work. Pluck the cats
properly to-day, and see that you don’t
overboil them, or
look out for yourself.
Serge : Boiled cat!
Why, if 1 had food of
such a richness I’d
break out in boils!
{Exeunt Ivan, Nickoff,
Yubitsch and
Scratchuss.)
{Enter Chorus.)
“Liquidators” :
Our job is quite an easy
one; we simply
press the trigger.
Our colleagues then
come on the scene;
their task, of
course, is bigger.
Body-burners :
We dig a pit just deep
and wide enough
to take the bodies;
We stack ’em stand-
ing up—you see,
that saves a lot of
space .
There’s no distinction: everyone, from
admirals to hoddies,
Is tossed in as he comes and quick-
lime leaves but little trace.
{Exeunt.)
(End of Act I.)
{To be continued.)
S. W. K.


mm
■■■ - y
\ ■■ t T ■ —-A.
B
«
ft
a
i
H
\
I
X
•T-t
aSSBBKSSm
§m
wSm ■
Wi
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from Pure
• Australian Wool.
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer cool
® throughout the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more “twist” in its
• fine worsted yarn than other cloths,
will not crease or crush.
SOLTINE
CLOTH
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Make the WENTWORTH
your Home while in Sydney
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with
in your own home. Although close to business and
social centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated
position away from trams, trains and other annoying
influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms, all with private bathrooms
—24-hour hot water service and; telephones.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
Bnusiness, Rollery,Ete.
What Is Happening?
The financial reactions to war so far
in Australia have been more the result of
emotional behavior in anticipation of
what may possibly happen rather than a
consequence of any physical loss of
money or materials arising out of war-
time operations. Certainly shipments of
some commodities, such as Scandinavian
newsprint, appear to have been disturbed,
and carriage of many things from Europe
has been delayed as a result of shipping
precautions, but there has been no real
“bite” from the losses of actual war up
to date.
Since war began the most disturbing
factors in the cost of items that go to
make up the necessities and luxuries of
Australian life have been the increased
exchange, insurance and sea-borne
freight rates. In particular cases it
appears that manufacturers and whole-
salers of articles of a partly or wholly
imported nature were, owing to the in-
crease in Australian costs before war
broke out, on the verge of putting prices
up in any case, and, when insurance and
freight rates rose, they added such a com-
prehensive “extra” to the old price that
surprise and criticism have been the
result.
Other distributors of goods, such as
the petrol cos., have so far passed on to
the public in the way of costs no more
than the increase in taxation, though
eventually the higher exchange cost of
importing from non-Empire countries
will have to be borne by someone.
There has been that other variety of
businessman who invariably finds that
additional taxation works out at a small
fraction of a penny per pound, quart or
dozen, and so adds a ha’penny or a penny
to the price. And, of course, the profi-
teer who has no increased costs to bear,
but who raises his prices just the same,
is not an extinct species.
The Commonwealth Prices Commis-
sioner is being bombarded with com-
plaints of profiteering, and he has already
made some rulings in regard to allowable
increases in prices, subject to revision
following investigation. His activities will
need to be more speedy than those of the
usual Royal Commissioner, otherwise,
even if this happens to be another
Hundred Years’ War, he will be think-
ing of more celestial things before he
disposes of the first half-dozen letters of
the alphabetical list of goods and services
under investigation.
Taxation has been slapped on to the
people with the utmost vigor ; this is one
of the very definite happenings since war
broke out. Time will show, if any further
showing is needed, to what extent this
increased levy is simply due to Govern-
ment mismanagement and top-heaviness,
and those held responsible will be re-
“Pardon me, but have you a gun license?"
warded with the Iron Boot when their
time comes round. The N. S. Wales
Government should figure prominently
if it gets all that is due to, it.
Last week a price had been fixed for
wheat and flour still on hand from last
season, but, with the exception of sugar
and eggs, most of the export surplus of
our other primary products had still to be
given a value. The work of fixing prices
obviously has its difficulties where
hundreds of millions of pounds may
eventually be involved, and where pro-
ducing countries other than Australia
may be parties to the deals with the
British Government.
A strange war from the point of
view of diplomatic, political and fighting
activities, it has been to date no less
strange from the commercial point of
view. Reports widely current to the effect
that it would be almost impossible to buy
English cars when present stocks ran out
were refuted last week by a British Board
of Trade announcement that motor-cars,
cycles, etc., can be shipped to any desti-
nation without an export license. This
seems to point to the probable relaxation
of restriction on many other British ex-
ports before long..
There is already some little industrial
disorganisation in Australia as a result of
the calling-up of militiamen and the con-
tinuance of enlistments. That is to be
expected. “Business” also has to put up
with endless interruptions from investi-
gators who won’t investigate for them-
selves, and from taxgatherers who refuse
to gather the taxes, but insist on the
money, correct to the penny, being
collected by “business” from employees,
shareholders, etc., and delivered punc-
tually on the due date.
Inventories have been demanded of
many types of manufacturer, and infor-
mation for compiling a National Register
has not long been supplied. Thousands
of people are beginning to wonder
whether any useful purpose is intended
to be served by these miles and miles of
red-tape, or whether it is all a “war
effort” as vacant-headed as the sand-
shifting unemployment schemes used to
be.
Gold stays at £8 Bs. an ounce in Lon-
don, which means that it calls for about
225. 9d. in English money to buy from
America what was a pound’s-worth of
goods before war broke out. The same
proportionate drop in the value of Aus-
tralian currency prevails in relation to
other stable non-sterling currencies.
This drift in the value of the pound has
not been immediately reflected in the
price of home-manufactured goods in
either Britain or Australia ; except that it
raises the cost of imports automatically,
its effect on internal price-levels and costs
depends largely on other internal con-
ditions. The depreciation of sterling on
this and most other occasions has been
brough about by force of circumstances,
not by deliberate manipulation, though
the Exchange Equalisation Fund has
“managed” sterling at times, especially
when other countries have been playing
about with the exchange value of their
own money. The fact, however, that
most major changes in sterling’s value
have been the result of strong economic
forces means that checks as well as
pressure work on the falling pound at
the same time and prevent sharp re-
actions.
Last week the Federal Government, on
behalf of the wheat pool, acquired by
regulation all wheat stocks in N. S.
Wales, Victoria and South Aus. This
old season’s wheat is being bought at
2s. 7|d. (Aust.) f.o.b. for bulk wheat and
2s. 9|d. for bagged. An advance of 2s.
a bushel is being made as the grain is
acquired. It is hoped that world prices
will allow an advance of at least 2s. a
bushel to be made for new season’s
wheat. The price being paid for last
season’s grain is about 2d. a bushel
above quotes ruling immediately before
the outbreak of war.
* * * *
Surplus sugar and eggs were the first
Australian primary products in respect
of which a war-time bargain was settled
with Britain. Queensland has ratified
an agreement with the British Govern-
ment to dispose of 290,000 tons of sugar
at 7s. 6d. sterling a cwt. c.i.f., plus
3s. 9d. preferential duty. Freight has
been fixed at 355. 6d. a ton ; any increase
to be charged to Britain. The price of
7s. 6d. a cwt. is subject to a clause grant-
ing sellers the right to reopen the question
if currency or other developments make
that figure unprofitable. Next season’s
crop is also to come under the agree-
ment.
Britain will pay from 10s. to 12s. 3d.
sterling per hundred eggs, c.i.f. London.
About 340,000 cases, worth more than
£600,000, come under the terms of the
present deal, which covers eggs packed
up to December 31.
* * * *
With the wool clip withheld from sale
pending completion of the British
Government’s purchase scheme there
hasn’t been much ready cash flowing
into Australia of recent weeks. Up to
the end of September, 1938, 235,000
bales had been disposed of, and by the
middle of October the figure had been
increased substantially. To date this
year fewer than 20,000 bales have been
sold—if we ignore the fact that the whole
clip is supposed to be sold, with only the
price to be settled last week. Until the
price is settled and shipments start to get
under way our overseas trading figures
are going to look worse than usual.


è
KUCHING’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER GOODS.
LADIES’ KIT BAGS IN ALL COLOURS
Morocco and Calf Leathers.
Fitted with Secure Lock.
lOin. and 12in. Price 37/6
C. E. KITCHING PTY., LTD.,
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Station ).
Tel.: 8W7133.
Are You About to Travel?
IF you are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
absence, you cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited,
to act as Attorney or Agent. The Company offers tlie services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details’ of your affairs. It can arrange to make regular
payments to you in any part of the world. You are invited to make an appointment
with a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge. You might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
ER
m
&rvd
STILL
M
P
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCallum, Ltd., 96 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 68-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 166 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett « Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street, HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
11l SIND H
CHEQUE
Payment by cheque has three out-
standing advantages:
é
Having a current account, you are
enabled to pay from your desk at
home. This saves time, fare-money,
waiting at cashiers’ desks, and the need
for carrying large sums of cash about
with you.
ê
With a current account, your funds are
protected from theft, fire, and general
loss. Your cheques also afford the
safety of a receipt for each amount
paid.
iiiin
Your cheque-butts, with their details of
each expenditure, serve as a record of
payment, and are a positive aid in
budgeting.
Ask for full particulars and free
Booklet “Services and Facilities” from
the nearest Branch of the Bank.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited Incorporated, in Victoria l
A piece of rotten legislation typical
of the Sydney Taxation Govern-
ment is its amendment to the Stamp
Duties Act which has been passed by
the Assembly. Under its provisions taxa-
tion is levied on an estate not only on
the death of the testator but also, where
there is a tenant for life, upon the death
of the life-tenant, the remainder-man’s
portion thus being subject to duty in at
least two instances. Of course, there
may be more than one life-tenant, in
which case the tax-grab would be multi-
plied. The duties apply to estates
where a life-tenant was alive at the com-
mencement of the amended law, so that
many wills may be affected where the
testator never contemplated such a law.
David Maughan, a Sydney barrister, has
pointed out that this imposition of suc-
cession duties in N. S. Wales has been
attempted in such a way as to make
dutiable in a deceased’s estate all assets
which “pass” on the death of a deceased,
irrespective of whether those assets were
ever within the control of the deceased
or not; and for this reason, apart from
any question of the justice of the rate
of taxation (which is likely to wipe out
financially many useful landowning
families of pioneer descent), he advocates
a separate Succession Duties Bill to cover
this new method, as in Britain there are
numerous provisions and exemptions on
the matter of who is liable for succession
duty. Obviously the Sydney crowd
aren’t worried about what the national
effect is or who pays the tax so long as
they can grab it.
* * * *
N. S. Wales Cabinet has decided to
extend the Moratorium Act without
amendment for a further three-year
period when the term expires on Dec.
31. For nearly 10 years now old mort-
gagors have enjoyed the protection of the
moratorium, though for some years the
State has experienced great prosperity.
Some difficulties are obvious now,
especially among wheat-farmers, but in
Victoria moratorium laws come to an
end next year, unless the Government
considers the outbreak of war sufficient
ground for a revision of its decision made
a couple of months ago. There is
obviously something wrong with the con-
duct of a State such as N. S. Wales that
has to have a moratorium in force dur-
ing both boom and slump.
* * * *
During a week in which the N. S.
Wales Government extended the mora-
torium for another three years, it was
sponsoring a Stamp Duties Amendment
Bill which threatened to multiply the
times an estate in which a life-tenant was
named by the testator would have to bear
probate duty. Mortgages happen to be
one of the types of securities approved
as trustee investments, and it is conceiv-
able that on the death of a life-tenant an
estate might be possessed of nothing but
mortgages on which, by virtue of the
moratorium, not a cracker could be raised
to meet the new “succession duties.”
Taxation Departments say that they
cannot consider the effects of taxation ;
their job is to collect it. But a Govern-
ment which broadcasts that it thinks of
nothing but how to bring the sunshine
of prosperity to the State can hardly
crawl away with the same yarn.
* * * *
During all this talk about expanding
the national credit in order to finance
defence, “works,” deficits, etc.,- it should
be remembered that labor, materials and
money wasted represent; waste whether
it occurs under a Government financed
by “national credit” or whether taxation
and other “orthodox” methods of-finance
are in vogue. Mismanagement of: the
public purse, extravagant vote-buying and
strangulation of private enterprise-.will,
continue to undermine the 1 Australian:
economy so long as overgovernment
goes on in its present deadly .way. .-Finan-
cial manipulation will -not counter mis-;
management and waste. It is a law. of
nature that nothing' is.got for nothing.
A man raising his hand, uses up a certain
amount of energy, and if he happens, to
be a woodchopper .he'will’put his ;energy
to the best use by studying the work he
has to do, expending a minimum of
energy in making each chop, and em-
ploying the most suitable axe. It doesn’t
much matter whether he is fed on fish
or meat, so long as his system is accus-
tomed to the food.
Inflating in order to finance a war
represents an indirect form of taxation.
It is difficult to apply in a manner that
will give a Government the same buying-
power that ordinary taxation does. The
kind of inflation that Australia is most
familiar with is costs inflation, caused
by bad national economic management,
for which private enterprise is often
jointly responsible with Governments.
The arbitration system in connection with
wages awards provides much of the
machinery for giving a legal status to
costs inflation. This costs inflation doesn’t
provide a Government with any extra
spending money, and it is the principal
bugbear that actual monetary inflation
(inflation caused by a Government issu-
ing to itself free currency notes, credits,
etc.) would have to cope with. It can
be guaranteed in advance that costs in- '
flation would rapidly outstrip note in-
flation.
The undertaking of large national en-
terprises often calls for the extension of.
credit by a country’s credit institutions.
The enterprises, however, cannot be
carried out unless we have the men and
materials, available to do the work. And
unless the enterprises are self-supporting
after completion, increased taxation and
unemployment'usually follow. The pro-
cess of extending credit over a lifeless
and non-employment-giving colossus of
bricks and concrete or of steel and
T.N.T. is: something that can’t go
on indefinitely. There has to be
national sacrifice in the, end to pay,
for these things. But it is not essential
that payment- should be doubled /or .
trebled simply because politicians choose
to burn down a house in order to roast,
a pig, or that’a financial reyolution be
brought on because of the repeated side- ■
tracking of redh issues. - * 1 -
* * * * *
The British Government is buying Aus-
tralian and Maoriland wool for the dura-
tion of the war and one clip thereafter
at 13.437 d. Australian a pound for Com-
monwealth wool and 12.18 d. for the
Maoriland fleece. Prices are about 3d.
higher than last season.
* * * *
By regulation issued last Friday under
the National Security Act it is now neces-
sary for companies or prospective com-
panies to obtain permission of the
Federal Treasurer in order to (1) register
formation of new co., (2) make a new
issue of share capital, (3) make calls on
shares already issued, (4) issue deben-
tures or raise mortgages, and (4) change
place of registration outside the Com-
monwealth. The general idea, apparently,
is to make Government borrowing easier.
* * * at
The Overseas Shipping Representatives’
Association last week announced a
further 25 p.c. rise in freight rates, mak-
ing a lift of 50 p.c. since war occurred.
* * * *
Brewery shares, especially those in
Sydney concerns, recovered some of their
pecker last week, there apparently still
being hopes that drinking will continue
to be a widely-practised Australian
custom, war or no war. Tooth scrip
touched 50s. again, and Toohey’s showed
even greater recovery. Almost the whole
list displayed a better tone towards last
week-end, and support for favored
stocks,', such as shipping, textiles and
B.H;p.,> remained very firm. Overseas
market tone was better also, and this had
an influence. ■
: Since the London price of lead was
fixed by; emergency powers at
£l6 12s. 6d. on Sept. 1, spelter at £l5
(duty in both cases on buyer’s account)
arid electrolytic copper at £52, the Aus-
tralian mining sharemarket has been
treated to r the spectacle of penny-ha’-
penny risek and falls in Barrier / stocks
and Mt. Lyell. The Barrier stock to
show most variation over the past fort-
night has been New Broken Hill Con-
solidated ; shares have risen from 16s. 7d.
to 17s. 3d. Current quote for North
scrip is 465. 6d., South 28s. and Zinc
Corp. ords. 84s. Mt. Lyell shares are at
295. 3d.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
ON J. BULL’S HOME FRONT.
[The extracts grouped under this heading indicate
some of the difficulties that are being encountered, mis-
handled and overcome in putting Britain’s democratic
system on to a war basis. The amount of criticism
does not mean that the huge job as a whole is being
fumbled, but rather that, so far, free speech has not
become a casualty. In a “Times” letter Wilfred Trotter
points out some of the advantages of that freedom:
“We save the whole enormous material and moral
expense of enforcing opinion—the secret police, the
spies, the informers; and we are spared the vast
platitude and boredom of enforced opinion which must
always be second rate. Again, freedom has given us
the means of applying external criticism to our affairs.
Parliamentary discussion and the press are able to supply
the independent, penetrating and responsible criticism
for lack of which so many great enterprises have come
to ruin.”]
Various Phenomena
It could not have been expected that immediately
after the introduction of sweeping controls everything
would run smoothly. We are now faced with a
number of formidable readjustment problems. Men
and women are moving from job to job on a huge
scale. Businesses ai*e suddenly prospering in one place
and are being threatened with ruin in another.—
Douglas Jay ; “Daily Herald.”
“For what has been done we are thankful; but
everybody is aware of the sort of wholesale, senseless
discharge of employees by firms of all kinds all over
the country. Everybody’s mailbag to-day is full of
letters from people discharged from their work, not
because of inefficiency, but because of timidity on the
part of employers, men and women whose services
before we are finished with this struggle we shall
sorely need, but who are now eating out their hearts
in bitterness.” — Mr. Greenwood (Lab. leader); House
of Commons.
The Ministry of Labor announces that recent dis-
missals have helped to increase the number of un-
employed women by 175,000. Sir Samuel Hoare
broadcasts: “Too many workers have been dismissed.”
He appealed to employers. “Get them back.
You will want many of them again before the world is
much older. Gigantic programmes are every day
gathering momentum. I am certain that at no distant
date there is scarcely an able-bodied man or woman
whose services the country will not need. In such an
effort there will be no room for idle hands.” — “Daily
Mail.”
Hundreds of firms have taken their headquarters
to Devon, Cornwall, Herefordshire or somewhere on
the South Coast. The directors of one of our massive
companies are in a suburban villa cooking their own
bacon at a place near Welwyn.— “Evening Standard.”
Sandbags, piled up and laid in stacks, are giving
London streets a new appearance. But, to some, they
look too monotonous, too much like piles of corn-
bags in a granary. So “artists” have got to work.
Fulham, I am told, has the best display—sandbags
decorated with the faces of Hitler and Goring.
Although the I.R.A. bomb explosions have
stopped, no doubt because of Scotland Yard’s effec-
tive searchings, I.R.A. activities now take another
form in some districts —that of tearing down A.R.P.
notices, interfering with the lights in shelters and
generally counteracting the efficiency of civil defence.
—Hannen Swaffer ; “Daily Herald.”
The shofar —ram’s horn sounded by the rabbis
at dusk to herald the Day of Atonement —was silenced
throughout Great Britain by order of the Chief Rabbi,
Dr. Hertz. The shofar is usually sounded in every
synagogue in the world, but Dr. Hertz feared it might
be mistaken for an air-raid warning.— “ Daily Mail.”
Wives and children of men fighting for their
country deserve the best treatment this country can
afford. They are being given allowances which make
decent living impossible. For the lowest paid men the
normal family allowance is 17s. for a wife, ss. for the
first child, 3s. for the second, 2s. for the third and
Is. for any further children. This is conditional on
the man having already allotted 7s. a week out of his
pay for his family. Clearly these rates will bear very
hardly on any home where there are more than three
children. Britain must not fight a war at the expense
of its women and children. — “Daily Herald.”
Fish is back on our tables. There was never a
shortage of it, but the scheme for distribution broke
down. Small centres like Blair Atholl received in one
day enough fish to feed the population for three years,
while inadequate supplies reached the large cities, and
were often bad through delay in transit when they
arrived there. So the war-time fish scheme has been
thrown back into the water. — “Sunday Express.”
So far this war the only political meeting held in
Liverpool that I have heard of was an anti- war one!
Only one thing has been moved from the Liver-
pool cathedral to “a place of greater safety”—the book
of the 40,000 names of those killed in the last war. —
William Hickey, “Daily Express.”
* * * 4 *
Blackout
We are given a new slogan: Keep the home fires
half alight. It is decreed that every householder must
cut down by a quarter his consumption of coal, gas
and electricity. The blackout has already reduced
electricity consumption by 30 per cent. There is no
need for a blackout inside the home as well. We
have enough coal to make all the gas and electricity
we want. And if supplies of coal run short, there are
90,000 unemployed miners eager to get us more. —
“Daily Express.”
With the sun setting (summer time) at approxi-
mately seven o’clock, many businesses and shops are
closing at 5.30 in order that their staffs may find their
way home before the impenetrable gloom of the dark-
ened cities descends upon them. It is to be expected
that, as the hour of sunset becomes earlier, so simi-
larly, and for similar reasons, will become the shut-
ting-down of city work, and by the winter months
three o’clock may, in all probability, become the
fashionable closing hour. — Arthur Murray; “Times”
letter.
The ban on effective driving lights on country
roads is difficult to understand, especially as it has
already killed large numbers of people. — Vice-Admiral
Dewar; “Times” letter.
The darkness has given London a lighter crime
record. In the past week fewer crimes were com-
mitted in the metropolis than in any seven days for
the past 10 years.
Drunkenness has been blacked out. People are
finding it hard enough these nights to find their own
front door when they are sober. — “Daily Express.”
* * % * *
War-time Prices
Members of the Drapers’ Chamber of Trade, at
an emergency meeting, agreed that there was no justi-
fication for an increase in the price of drapery goods
of more than 5 per cent. It was stated that whole-
salers and manufacturers were exacting rises from 20
to 25 per cent. What was described as “the meanest
type of war profiteering” is prevalent in the trade in
A.R.P. goods. Black cloth sold to the public three
weeks ago at Is. 4d. a piece is now being charged to
retailers at Is. 9\d.
Certain retail merchants are as guilty of profiteer-
ing as suppliers. One case is that of a well-known
firm in the Midlands demanding 2s. 9\d. a piece for
this same blackout cloth. All over the country poor
people are compelled to sit in the dark owing to the
profiteering ramp. They are unable to pay exorbitant
prices for black material The Drapers’ Chamber of
Trade agreed to urge the Government to provide for
a standard blackout cloth at a price within the reach
of all.
Suppliers, even those with stocks in hand, have
put up the price of artificial silk stockings by 25 per
cent, and more. Three well-known brands sold before
the war at 2s. lid. are now priced at 3s. lid.
Confectionery is also being put up. In the Mid-
lands the price of all types of sweets has been in-
creased by as much as 50 per cent. — “Daily Herald.”
A Hull trawler’s catch of fish realised £1327,
against a normal figure of about £3OO. Cod sold at
six times the pre-war price.— “Observer,” 24191*39.
A resolution adopted by the executive council
of the Transport and General Workers’ Union points
out that every price fixed by the Government has in-
creased the cost of the commodity to the apparent
advantage of the trader, suggesting that a deliberate
policy to lower the real value of wages was being
pursued.— “ Daily Express.”
* * * * *
Censor
The Ministers assure us that we are all “fighting
Hitlerism.” But the men and women in the street are
asking “How? Where? When?” Honestly nine out
of ten are baffled, bored, fed-up or furious. We are
not children, nor even adult citizens of some rickety
Reich that must be cheated to be led. Neither public
nor press asks for information that could conceivably
aid the enemy. Both public and press have freely
laid aside “for the duration” precious rights of in-
quiry and discussion. But news is the lifeblood of a
free people, and we are not fighting the Big Hitler on
the Rhine only to set up Little Hitlers here. — “Even-
ing Standard.”
At 11.38 p.m. newspaper offices were thrown into
confusion by a Ministry of Information announcement
withdrawing their authorisation to print the news of
the presence of British troops in France. By this time
hundreds of thousands of copies of the “Daily Ex-
press” and other newspapers had been printed and
dispatched for distribution to all parts of the country.
At 1.45 a.m. an inspector of police called at the
“Daily Express” offices. He informed us that his
orders were to seize all copies of newspapers contain-
ing mention of the British troops in France. Mean-
while the circulation manager of the “Daily Express”
was receiving reports that police were seizing news-
papers at railway termini. Other reports showed that
trains were being stopped at intermediate stages and
their parcels unloaded. Newspaper vans were held up
in the streets of London.
The “Daily Express” prepared a special edition
omitting all reference to the British troops in France.
This edition had been printing for 20 minutes when
a further bulletin was issued by the Ministry of Infor-
mation. It Was timed at 2.55 a.m. and once more
released the news. The “Daily Express” immediately
restored the edition containing the news of the arrival
of our troops overseas. — “Daily Express.” [Mr. Men-
Zies had a taste of this Particular brand of bungle in
connection with the big Empire Air F
ment last week.]
A curiosity of censorship of which I h a ve seen
evidence is the turning back of crosswor I?
which had been posted in London to Dommionor
colonial newspapers. One gathers that t P
are regarded as potential carriers of inform
the enemy. The theory is, evidently, that die London
offices of reputable newspapers are used in so Y
to send messages to the enemy, well camou ag
crossword clues. To make this hypothetical espion g
more cunning the information is transmitted to -
many via distant British Dominions.— -H. A. kay
(Past President, Institute of Journalists) ; limes
letter. ...
How many great minds were needed to refuse the
“Daily Express” a copy of the latest pamphlet droppe
on Germany? How many more were required to
think of the “military reasons” which prevented our
having a copy? Soon we will need leaflet raids on
Britain to tell our own people how the war is going.
—“Daily Express.”
*** * . *
A.R.P. Racket
There are A.R.P. workers accepting pay for their
duties while still enjoying a good income from pri-
vate or business sources. In Barnes, S.W., men with
incomes of £5OO and £lOOO a year are said to be re-
ceiving the usual £3 a week full-time A.R.P. pay.
Complaints have been made of similar circumstances
in other London areas. I was told by one official
that regular pay for A.R.P. work is being drawn in
his district by the owner of a chain of tobacco
stores; a publican with a thriving and busy house , a
woman who owns several dress shops and has a fixed
private income of £6OO a year. In another area I
learn of the woman owner of a private hotel who,
while leaving servants to run her business, has been
accepting £2 a week for A.R.P. work.—' ‘Daily Mail”
reporter.
Hundreds of thousands of men and women are
“standing by” all over Great Britain for air raids, and
many are being' paid £2 to £3 a week for doing so. A
high standard of A.R.P. may be necessary in the
vicinity of important and particularly vulnerable ob-
jectives such as the London Docks ; but there seems
no justification for immobilising large numbers of
men and women in country towns and rural districts.
— Vice-Admiral Dewar; “Times” letter.
In this city, which is in a reception area and pre-
sumably, therefore, in a region which is likely to be
less exposed to air raids than many other parts of the
country, money is being poured out at the rate of
£25,000 per annum in manning a large number of
wardens’ posts, day and night, with full-time paid
wardens —32 posts in a city of this moderate size
manned day and night by paid wardens.— R. C.
Chance ( Carlisle ); “Times” letter.
While commercial vehicles are being taken off the
roads because they cannot get enough petrol to run
on, thousands of gallons of spirit are being wasted
by superfluous “priority” cars making superfluous
A.R.P. journeys, especially in the remoter districts. —
“Daily Mail.”
* * * * *
Billeting
Though the evacuation scheme for schoolchildren
has been fairly successful, that arranged for the
mothers and babies has failed. Large numbers of
them have returned to London, and the first frost will
see the return of the rest. Similarly, the first air
raid will cause large numbers to rush out of London
again. But householders who willingly undertook to
house them under the first scheme, and who have had
their houses ruined by unhouse-trained children and
dirty and slovenly mothers, have stated definitely that
they will not have a second batch billeted upon them,
but will go to prison instead. — M. M. C. Burrows;
“Times” letter.
The talk now going on in the West Country
among the inhabitants is more than grumbling. “Eng-
land oughtn’t to be run like this,” they say. “We were
told civilians would all have to help, and we don’t
mind doing what we can, but we won’t be bullied.
What right has anyone to come and order us to put
up with all these people we can’t afford to take?” —
“Time and Tide.”
A very common complaint—l hear it wherever
I go—is about the verminous children and, even worse,
the children with infectious or contagious diseases.
One village to my knowledge received 600 Liverpool
children, of whom no less than 485 had such com-
plaints.—From “A London Diary,” “New Statesman.”
What is really shameful is that our system has
allowed these pathetic, dirty children. There is *a
serious deficiency somewhere in training and outlook.
Our educational methods seem to have failed miser-
ably, and such children, through evacuation, have
been brought mercifully to the light of day. But
before all that can be remedied can we not have legis-
lation immediately to stop this senseless return by the
parents to the filthy conditions they came from?
The war has brought about the one condition of
country life that might save these children ; and the
Government, through inaction, is letting slip a great
opportunity to improve the coming race. It has taken
on the responsibility of separating the children from
the parents in many cases during war-time. I cannot
see why it cannot go further and complete the good
work. It has such wide authority, as in taking over


people’s houses and hotels. It might put the children
before that.— Baroness Ravensdale ; “Times” letter.
* * * *
Recruit
I spent three days applying at recruiting offices.
At one I actually reached the point of filling in a form
of application, but hopes were dashed when I came
to state my profession. I put down journalist, only to
be told that this was a reserved occupation. Then I
tried author, but found that authors were considered
indispensable. Novelist, diffidently suggested, met with
the same response ; book reviewer was ruled out as
not an occupation at all, and when, thinking of
Chaucer, I said I might perhaps regard myself as a
clerk, I was informed that clerks could not be spared
for service with the armed forces. As a last resort I
asked if being unemployed was a reserved occupation,
and, if not, whether I might give it as mine. Being
unemployed, I learnt, was not an admitted category.
How agreeably different was Falstaff’s recruiting tech-
nique : “ ’Fore God, a likely fellow. Come prick me
Bullcalf till he roar again.”— Malcolm Muggeridge;
London “Daily Telegraph.”
* * $ * *
An Emptied Sanatorium
In this county the public sanatorium, situated in
the hill country, has been evacuated to make room for
air-raid casualties, and over 100 patients in various
stages of consumption have been returned to their
(mostly overcrowded) homes. The advice which was
given to them—not to share a room with young people
—is in mfiny cases impossible to take, and some of
them are sleeping in the same room, and even in the
same bed, with children.
The sanatorium, of course, remains empty, but
even if there were casualties to fill it I cannot help
feeling that the consumptive patients have an equal
right to medical care ; and if we consider the future
generation, are not those same consumptives spread-
ing a danger as deadly as any bomb (and for the
moment more certain) among their brothers and
sisters and children? — Mabel Grey {Northumber-
land); “Times” letter.
On “Mighty” Russia.
[Considering the nature of its recent performance,
Soviet Russia has been let off most lightly in our
Russian-alliance newspapers. Even now Russia gets
off lightly: e.g., last week “S. M. Herald” had nearly
half a column of German atrocities in Poland without
one mention of Russia’s part in the same business. Here
is how the Soviet performance has figured in overseas
comment; first, Manchester “Guardian” —itself a former
admirer—describing the curious apologising that has
also been profuse in Australia, and the “Evening
Standard” on wiseacre “correspondents,” also sicken-
ingly familiar.]
{From Manchester “Guardian.”)
When the pact between Russia and Germany was
announced there were still many prepared to defend
the action of the Soviet Government. “Wait,” they
said, “and you will find the pact contains an escape
clause in the case of aggression.” Two days later the
text was published and it contained no escape clause.
Yet still the Soviet Government had its champions.
It was the fault of Mr. Chamberlain, who would not
treat Russia as an equal; it was the fault of the Poles,
who had refused to allow Russian troops on Polish
soil. (Now we know why.) What else could “the
great, wise leader Stalin” do in the circumstances?
What else indeed? The Red Army crossed the Polish
frontiers to “carry out with honor a sacred task.” To
Poland, already struggling desperately against the
overwhelming power of Germany, this new blow came
as a final disaster.
{From the “Evening Standard.”)
Despite the chorus of “military correspondents”
who reckoned that Poland could fight for months
and next declared that she had finished fighting before
the Russians moved, the Polish debacle was precisely
accomplished by the Red Army assault upon the rear.
Here, incidentally, we have another word for the
“diplomatic correspondents” who first assured us that
Russia was pro-Ally for the asking, then wept incon-
solably when it transpired that she was pro-Nazi, and
now, hoping fearfully for the best, reprove all who
dare to characterise the Soviet march for what it is
—barefaced plunder.
{From the “Times.")
The signature of the Soviet-German agreement
liberated and encouraged Hitler to light the first flames
of a world war in Europe. When Russian troops
crossed the Polish border only those could have been
disappointed who had clung to the ingenuous belief
that Russia was to be distinguished from her Nazi
neighbor, despite the identity of their institutions and
political idiom, by the principles and purposes behind
her foreign policy. The Germans knew better when
they judged that the self-denying objects of a peace
front would prove pallid and uninviting beside the
offer of two Polish provinces at no immediate cost.
Germany was to do the murder and Russia was to
share the estate. To the Soviet belongs the base and
despicable share of accessory before and after the
crime and the contempt which even the thief has for a
receiver who shares none of his original risks.
{From the “Daily Mail.”)
The “New Statesman” rebukes the “Times” for
saying that the Russians acted dishonorably in tak-
ing the hard-pressed Poles in the rear. Well, maybe
—under modern rules —it is not dishonorable to march
without warning on a people who are fighting with
their backs to the wall, and to kick the wall down.
{From the “Evening Standard.”)
The Communist party, as much as remains, has
tied itself into a reef knot in trying to explain
the Red Army march into Poland. Its “Daily
Worker,” explaining on page one how the Soviet Gov-
ernment took action only when the Polish defence
collapsed, on page two described how Warsaw was
still fighting five days after the Red Army advanced.
Scattered elsewhere in this remarkable sheet were
statements (1) that the liberated population wel-
comed the Russians without firing a shot; and (2) that
Kalinin, the Soviet President, has decorated Red
Army officers for valor in the Polish fighting.
C From the regular “Notebook” contribution of
“Janus,” in the “Spectator.”)
When the news of the Russian invasion of Poland
came one of my first thoughts was to ascertain what
interpretation the accredited mouthpiece of Com-
munism in this country, the “Daily Worker,” put on it.
“SOVIET COUNTER-BLOW AGAINST NAZIS”
the heading ran in heavy capitals across the page,
while the leading article explained that the peoples of
“the Western Ukraine and Western Byelo-Russia,”
faced with the choice between Nazi tyranny and “free-
dom with the majority of their kith and kin in the
Soviet Union,” had been enabled, thanks to the Red
Army, to choose the latter. By the following day the
“Daily Worker’s” tone was a little piano, but the
Soviet Republic was still portrayed as “an heroic
liberator” —the ground for the employment of that
particular adjective being left to the imagination. I
see that Trotsky, in an article in the “Daily Express,”
ascribes Russia’s action to the fact that “Stalin fears
Hitler,” and therefore thinks it politic to join him- in
brigandage. General Krivitsky, whose articles in the
“Saturday Evening Post” caused a considerable stir
in America and this country, put it a little differently.
According to him, Stalin admired Hitler as a man
who got things done —bloodlessly—and was always
hankering to emulate him.
(From “Time and Tide”)
It may be, as Moscow broadcasts indicate, that
Stalin has turned again towards the goal of World
Revolution. [Lady Rhondda’s paper has always sought
to put the most cheerful construction on Soviet
activities .]
(,From another old admirer, London Labor “Daily
Herald”)
The forces of the Soviet advanced, not to bring
assistance to a small nation attacked and invaded by
a wanton and brutal aggressor, but to fight in alliance
with the aggressor. Russian Communism joined with
German Nazism in the scramble for plunder. The
country which might have set —which we once all be-
lieved would set —an example to the whole world in
social justice and international fair dealing embarks
upon war for the naked purpose of territorial gain ;
to grab what Poland could no longer defend.
No one can any longer deceive himself. There
is and can be no justification. Russia acted not only
contrary to all the ideals which her leaders have ex-
pressed again and again, but in direct breach of her
solemn treaty. That treaty of non-aggression was
signed by Russia and Poland in 1932, and later re-
newed until December, 1945.
(From the “Times” letter columns.)
The Russo-German pact, acclaimed as a master-
stroke of diplomacy, has resulted in the surrender to
Russia of more than half Poland, for the conquest of
which 100,000 Germans have laid down their lives. Now
Germany is facing a long and exhausting war in the
West with a vast Russian army on its unfortified
eastern frontier. Truly Herr Hitler has given hostages
to fortune! If the people of Germany realised the
situation they would sweep the whole Nazi gang into
oblivion, reconstitute Western Poland as a buffer
State, and seek an agreement with Britain, France,
Italy and Spain for the defence of European civilisa-
tion. — P. Gardner-Smith, Jesus College, Cambridge.
{Other reference from various sources.)
Shooting of captured Polish officers and nobles
who resisted the Soviet occupation of Grodno was an-
nounced by the Moscow radio. The Poles had taken
refuge in the cathedral, which they defended desper-
ately for two days. Protected by tanks, Russian troops
crept up to the walls and threw hand grenades through
the cathedral windows. — London ‘‘Daily Herald.”
I was talking to a Left-wing bookseller whose
sandals and beard have made him a conspicuous figure
for years now. “Look at all that stock,” he lamented,
“what can I do with it?” There were piles of Com-
munist-party literature, pamphlets, papers and books ;
adulations of Soviet Russia, pictures of Soviet Russia,
explanations of Soviet Russia; speeches of Stalin,
Left Book Club selections, histories of the Russian
Revolution in which Stalin’s role was enormously exag-
gerated. “No one will touch it,” he said. Sighing,
he added: “I found an old copy of the ‘Daily Worker’
just now. August. It had an article by J. R. Camp-
bell saying that the suggestion that Stalin might come
to a secret agreement with Hitler was a vile slander.”
.... I find a certain amount of human satisfaction at
the downfall of the pundits. They have been so arro-
gant and unctuous in their day.— “ Critic,” in his regu-
lar notes in the “New Statesman.”
I hope ybu will agree that the moment has come
for you to admit that, however unwise Mr. Cham-
berlain may have been to disbelieve in the treachery
of Hitler, it is more than balanced by your own com-
plete failure to anticipate the treachery of Stalin. —
Lord Esher, addressing the “New Statesman.”
By Gad, how right you always are! And now
the poor Russians, purely owing to the ineptitude and
procrastination of the British Government, have been
forced, through sheer exasperation, to invade Poland
and annex two provinces. Only it is a pity, as you
said in connection with the German pact, that they
did not let us know a little earlier. — C. K. Munro,
also recalling its past to the “New Statesman.”
The Soviet action was not unexpected. But based
on a pretext it constitutes a cowardly gesture. —
“Osservatore Romano” (Vatican).
‘Germany having killed the prey, Soviet Russia
seizes that part of the carcass that Germany cannot
use. It plays the noble role of hyena to the German
lion. All these pretences and lies [of Stalin and Hitler]
have collapsed together. At last the issue stands clear.
Hitlerism is brown Communism; Stalinism is Red
Fascism. The world will now understand that the
Only real ideological issue is one between democracy,
liberty and peace on the one hand, and despotism,
terror and war on the other. —New York “Times.”
Neutral Spain.
(From an article by London “Times” Hendaye
correspondent.)
For the second time in this century Spain has
declared herself neutral in a widespread international
conflict. It was a decision that served Spanish interests
25 years ago as it serves them now, but General
Franco has to face many difficulties from which King
Alfonso’s Governments were free. He should be
able, however, to reap the same benefits for Spain as
they did.
Neutrality enabled Spain to recover completely
from the depression following the loss of her last
great colonies 16 years before. It helped her to
develop her textile and heavy industries in Catalonia
and Bilbao. Their products, as well as the ores and
foodstuffs, fruit of the soil, were eagerly sought by
the Allies. Spanish shipping earned immense sums
in freight. When peace came Spain had waxed rich
in an impoverished Europe.
How such a favorable position was lost is the
burden of Spanish history during the past 20 years.
How it came to pass, together with the process of
neutrality in 1914-18, are lessons Nationalist Spain
should study to-day.
Throughout the war Spain rendered a great service
to humanity by tracing prisoners, supervising intern-
ment camps, stationing observers aboard hospital ships
and responding to the many calls made upon a trusted
neutral in times of stress. Internal rivalries, as well
as foreign preferences, complicated the task of main-
taining neutrality. The spate of ideological passions
was even then beginning to run dangerously, as the
revolutionary general strike of 1917 proved.
The weak Spain that was the legacy of the down-
fall of the monarchy became an easy victim. The
Republic, by allowing Marxist intrigue to usurp func-
tions of State and poison the springs of the Constitu-
tion, failed in what should have been its principal
purpose: the conciliation of Spaniards. While subver-
sive doctrines imbued wide sections of the lower, the
threat to all privilege awoke the higher classes, and
the persecution of the religious orders shocked the
traditional sense of reverence of countless Spaniards.
General Franco won mainly because of the in-
flexible Crusader spirit which Spaniards fighting under
his banner (the old royalist gules and gold) carried
in their souls, helped by his superior strategy. The
collapse of the Republicans revealed, with the dilapi-
dation of the national Treasury, the shameful subser-
vience of the Republican police to the Russian tor-
turers in the Chekas, abandoned, as in Barcelona, com-
plete with their stock of weird instruments. Russia
was indeed the great enemy of Nationalist Spain.
Without her support neither Largo Caballero nor
Negrin could have resisted so long. Evidence, piling
up since the civil war ended, all points that way.
After victory General Franco saw to it that the
foreign troops which came to Spain should depart.
Spain is to be for Spaniards. Help given by Germany
has been paid for in great part with ores, grain and
fats. How to ensure that the natural sympathy for
those nations who helped in the hour of need shall
not interfere with the duties of neutrality is General
Franco’s problem. The collusion between the origi-
nator of the anti-Comintern alliance and Stalin has
profoundly altered the outlook of many Spaniards
towards Germany. The bond of gratitude with Italy
remains, but, in the absence of any engagement such
as was eluded when Count Ciano came to San Sebas-
tian with it in his pocket, General Franco’s hands are
free. The real difficulties may arise with the incidents
brought by contingencies of war.
Swedish Comment on the Empire.
(From a leading article in the Swedish newspaper
“Nya Tidning,” Upsala.)
The whole British Empire has lined up on the side
of the mother country in the war against Germany.
That this gathering should have been so spontaneous
and complete, and should have shown no hesitation,
was hardly expected.
Above all, Germany will hardly have anticipated
this, because it has often been preached in the third
Reich that the British world empire would prove at
length to be an untenable entity, and the difficulties
which the British have had to fight have been made
use of in an unscrupulous way by Nazi propaganda.
There is, however, no indication that the British
Empire is built upon loose foundations. On the con-
trary, there is every reason to believe that it possesses
to a very high degree the elements of vitality. The
cause of the united gathering seems to be that there is
unlimited confidence everywhere in the Englishmen’s
will for peace and a united opinion that the Empire
finally has taken up arms because there was no other
way out.
In the lining up even other countries not formally
linked with the Empire directly are taking part. Egypt
and Iraq, both sovereign kingdoms, also severed all
connections with Germany. This must be a severe
blow for Germany, which had had certain hopes that
the Arab world would rise against England. The
Germans have again to experience what a moral asset
the principles of self-government, on which the British
Empire has been built up, are to England.


-Z2Z?-
V
m
1»U
A Stirring Memory
of the Battles of
Peter and Rogilla
%
mw-* —> to
&
EEEEEc
& }$ *>
i
slAni»Ai> rucut t
AUSIR/tLI/l
A GOOD FINISH
DESERVES A
GOOD DRINK -
Say “Here's To’ee” with this
sparkling health beverage
the best thing in any “Cup"
or glass.
TOOHEYS
114*5
KEEP THE FLAG FLYING*"
TOOHEYS, LTD.,
STANDARD BREWERY, SYDNEY.
Agents:
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA;
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Northern Agencies Pty.,
ceston.
, Hobart.
Ltd., Laun-


SPOTTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PHOT")
The outstanding performance at Caul-
field on Saturday was that of Respirator
m the Herbert Power Handicap. Favorite
at 5 to 2 in a field of 15, he was last to
leave the straight and second-last at the
mile, after three furlongs had been
covered. With half a mile to go Respira-
tor must have been 25 lengths behind the
pacemaker, Denis Girl.
Melbourne racing people had formed
a good opinion of Respirator in the
autumn, when he finished second in the
Bond Cup, King's Cup and V.R.C. St.
Leger and appeared unlucky not to have
got on to the winning list. It was this,
combined with good recent Randwick
form, that made the Windbag stallion
such a hot favorite for the Herbert Power
Handicap. Hopes of his backers had
sunk to almost vanishing point when
Respirator put in a paralysing run from
the turn and beat Rivette on the post by
half a head.
The achievement was reminiscent of
that of Manfred in capturing the Heather-
lie Handicap as a three-year-old after
being left at the post. Recuperator, dam
of Respirator, is a half-sister to Son o’
.Mine, who finished third to Trivalve and
Silvius in the Melbourne Cup of 1927,
coming from the rear of the field at the
straight entrance. Pedigree of Respirator
is full of stamina. His sire, Windbag,
vanquished Manfred in the Cup of ’25.
However, at the close of the afternoon
Rivette was Caulfield Cup favorite. This
was quite understandable, as the Ronsard
mare will have a relative advantage of
181 b. in weight next Saturday. At six
years Rivette is at the height of her
physical powers. Between last April and
the beginning of the present season she
registered three wins, and has been racing
with remarkable consistency in the
interim.
Ortelle’s Star, next in demand to Res-
pirator, did not come up to expectations,
being never nearer than seventh and only
tenth on the post; but Alarm, solidly
backed by Lou Robertson and his fol-
lowers, always kept in the picture and
ran fifth. Donor’s Hill, by Windbag from
that good mare Mira Donna, pipped
Denis Girl by a head for third honors.
Very fit just now, Denis Girl may win
at the carnival if properly “placed.” Her
dam, Gwillian G., won a Sydney Cup,
and Frank McGrath landed a Caulfield
Cup and other good stakes with the sire,
Denis Boy.
High Caste (10 to 9 on, favorite) had
less than a length to spare from Reading
in the Caulfield Guineas, but the margin
would have been greater if J. T.
Jamieson’s colt hadn’t got into slight
difficulty at the turn and been further im-
peded when Glenfino hung in when chal-
lenging Reading for control at the fur-
long post. Zonda improved on her
Flemington effort a week before by
finishing third. Classic honors —in the
Oaks —seem assured for this Manitoba
filly.
According to Darby Munro, Reading
was rather upset by racing for the first
time in a left-handed direction, but
Munro admitted that the best horse won.
Wilson never flattered and was three
lengths behind the third horse. Sen-
sationally supported from twelves down
to second" favoritism at 9 to 2, Pure Gold
began slowly, ran up third at the half-
mile and then compounded at the turn,
finishing last.
Impression arose that Pure Gold had
broken down. Yet he walked back with-
out revealing lameness. It leaked out
that the brother to Hall Mark had been
giving Jack Holt trouble for some little
time. Puzzling part about it is that he
was backed with such spirit for the
Guineas.
Ted Bartle began a series of three suc-
cessive wins by capturing the Debutante
Stakes, for fillies, on Trueness. Bailey
Payten’s representative was not in nearly
such good demand as Heart’s Desire, who
had dead-heated with The Aisle at
Flemington a week before. As much as
7 to 1 was laid against Trueness. She
firmed to 9 to 2, final quote of her rival
being threes.
Heart’s Desire led into the straight, but
as soon as Bartle called on Trueness she
put the issue beyond doubt, scoring,
running away, by 1| lengths.
The Debutant Stakes, for colts and
geldings, resulted in Florin (eights)
beating the 6-to-4 favorite, Procyon, by
half a head. Florin is by Christopher
Robin, who also sired the third horse,
Halifax. Made second favorite, Broad-
caster did not give his supporters a run
for their money. He swung round when
the barrier rose and was hopelessly left.
Soltoi (threes) was a slightly better
favorite than Eligible for the 1010 Welter.
He took charge close to home, but sur-
rendered by half a neck to the fast-
finishing Pantoon, owned and trained by
Jack Fryer. Third money went to John
Dory, a stable-companion of Ajax.
Promise shown by John Dory was some
compensation to Frank Musgrave for
the enforced forfeiture of spring engage-
ments by Ajax. The champion has not
recovered from his foot injury and can-
not race again before autumn arrives.
Failure of Eligible was a severe set-
back to Eric Connolly, but worse was to
follow. He backed the former W.A.
horse Tetreen down to twos for the
Toorak Handicap and saw him beat only
three rivals in a field of 20. Winner was
Hilton (twelves), the star member of
W. R. Kemball’s string. Carrying top
weight, Hilton came like a bolt from the
blue to defeat Carpentier by half a length,
with the Epsom hero Geebung a length
away.
Last week, when discussing Caulfield
Cup runners, I gave preference to Rivette,
and her second in the Herbert Power
Handicap with 211 b. more than her Cup
weight has naturally gone towards
strengthening my opinion of her chance.
Occasionally a considerable drop in
weight does not make a great difference
to some horses, but it should be helpful
to Rivette. Feminist is good, but it is
improbable she would have shone with,
say, a stone more than Rivette in last
Saturday’s race, and she will be giving
Rivette more than that, even allowing for
the latter carrying a few pounds over-
weight.
Since she went south Feminist has
pleased her trainer, but, though she won
the Metropolitan easily enough with 7.11,
an additional 91b. is bound to make some
difference in the Caulfield Cup. Sticking
to figures Fearless, at an advantage of
211 b., as compared with the Metropolitan,
should beat her, but I expect the Caul-
field Cup to be run at a sounder pace in
the early part than was the Sydney race,
and, though the distance is a furlong
shorter, that may tell against Fearless.
Geebung still enters into calculations.
Accounts of the Toorak Handicap sug-
gest he weakened slightly at the finish,
but he carried 8.7 against his 7.6 in the
Ca*ulfield Cup. Seemingly he took kindly
to the Melbourne way of going, and as
he was able to gain a good position early
in the Toorak he should have no diffi-
culty in doing so in the Cup with 151 b.
less weight. His owner did not go to
Melbourne last week to see him run, and
as he limited his investment on him to a
“tenner” he could not have been very
sweet on his chance.
* * * *
Carpentier’s second in the Toorak Han-
dicap was not really a better performance
in a Caulfield Cun connection than that
of Geebung. He was in receipt of 71b.
from the Sydney horse, and is giving him
21b. in Saturday’s race. I am writing
before acceptance, and, though Carpentier
may drop out, I do not anticipate he
will. Races carrying £5OOO first money
are not numerous, and are always worth
going for, even if possibilities are slightly
against success.
While Reading’s defeat in the Guineas
does not entirely dispose of him, I doubt
his ability to win with a pound more
than any other three-year-old has success-
fully carried in the Cup. To say nothing
of others, he will be meeting Saturday’s
winner, Respirator, a few pounds worse
than weight-for-age. Ortelle’s Star’s run
in the Herbert Power Handicap said
nothing for her, and, on their Metro-
politan running, neither Pantler nor
Buzalong reads quite as well as Feminist
or Fearless. Bourbon has eased con-
siderably in the market, and I still regard
him as having a better chance in the Mel-
bourne Cup.
Since last autumn Respirator’s trainer
has contended he is a better horse in
Melbourne than in Sydney, and in the
Herbert Power Handicap that idea was
upheld. While Respirator’s win puts him
in a much better light for the Caulfield
Cup than many others engaged in that
race, his weight drops only 31b. against
Rivette’s 211 b. Respirator had to over-
come difficulties in winning, and finished
better than the mare, but the difference
is pronounced, even if Rivette carries a
few pounds overweight, which is prob-
able.
• • • • * ♦
Respirator did not actually give Rivette
more than a 31b. beating, and, though he
finished as if the extra furlong would
have been all in his favor, the mare’s
light weight should go a long way in
assisting her to turn the tables. A re-
handicap would probably put Rivette
above the Bst. mark, and it is certain she
would meet everything else in the Cup—
not barring Fearless —on worse than
original terms. Last year Marauder (8.3)
and Ortelle’s Star (7.9) were first and
second respectively in the Herbert Power
Handicap, and they ran much to that
form in the Caulfield Cup. Marauder
was third with 8.0 and Ortelle’s Star fifth
with 7.8. That further points to Herbert
Power running being entitled to full value
in assessing Cup chances.
So far as selection of the winner is
concerned, I shall keep to my original
choice—Rivette. Next to her I like
Respirator, Geebung and Feminist,
though whether Geebung can get a mile
and a half savors of guesswork.
* * * *
Hilton’s Toorak Handicap win with
9.4 more than ever makes the Cantala
Stakes appear a good thing for Manrico
with 8.5. In the Melbourne Stakes Man-
rico gave Hilton 81b. and a decisive beat-
ing. That would be equivalent to putting
Hilton in the Cantala with 7.11, to say
nothing of the allowance for a beating,
and would put defeat by anything he met
in the Toorak Handicap out of the ques-
tion. Figures often lead backers astray,
but they will be completely upset if Man-
rico fails in the Cantala. One thing
certain is that the big pull he seems to
have in weight will tend to a smaller field
than last year’s sixteen.
* * * *
At Caulfield E. Bartle repeated his
Randwick score of three wins in an after-
noon, and they were again in succession.
As one was at a half-mile, another at
a mile, and a third at a mile and a quarter,
all distances seemingly come alike to
him. At Randwick he recently won at
two miles. Early in Bartle’s career he
was not accounted really good in sprint
races, and most of his wins were at
distances beyond a mile. Later he shone
in short races, and the belief obtained
that he was much better in those than
anything else. Now he finds followers in
everything.
* * * *
Christopher Robin has not yet had
many important winners in Australia,
but, as the oldest of his progeny in this
country are only three, there is still
plenty of time for him to make his mark.
His best up to date is Florin, winner
of the Debutant Stakes at Caulfield on
Saturday. Bred at Kia-Ora Florin is out
of a speedy galloper in Coinage, who
has thrown winners in Temple Coyn,
Duke Caledon, Coinash and others. In
her day Coinage was smart, winning at
Randwick and elsewhere, and as she is
by The Welkin it is not surprising that
her progeny should have pace. Florin
was the best-looking of the Christopher
Robin youngsters offered at Randwick
last autumn, and was sold for 500gns.
* * * *
The owner and trainer of High Caste
are being criticised because of his early
withdrawal from the Melbourne Cup, but
they did not take that step without giv-
ing the matter a deal of thought, and
probably came to the conclusion that,
though he could get a mile and a half,'
an extia half-mile in the best open com-
pany would be beyond him. Despite his
wins High Caste’s appearance does not
lend itself to the idea that he would prove
a great stayer, and if those interested
m him thought harm might be done by
running him beyond his distance they
were wise in avoiding that possibility. In
successive years three-year-olds in Peter
Pan and Hall Mark won the Melbourne
Cup, but since then results have been
against horses of that age at least as well
credentialled as High Caste as stayers.
The last five years have seen Victoria
Derby winners in Theo, Feldspar, Talk-
ing, Hua and Nuffield among the “also
rans” in the Melbourne Cup.
* # * #
Poseidon brought off the treble of
A.J.C. Derby, Caulfield Cup and Mel-
bourne Cup, but the odds are much
against Reading equalling that perfor-
mance. He has the first leg in, but if he
should account for the Caulfield Cup the
handicapper will have power to add an
additional 101 b. to his Melbourne Cup
weight. He already has 7.7, and, while
he might not get the full penalty, he
would, in fairness to horses beaten in the
Caulfield Cup, have to go up a few
pounds. Newhaven’s 7.13 is the record
for weight successfully carried by a three-
year-old in the Melbourne Cup, and the
chances are that Reading would, at least,
be asked to equal that.
* =i= *
As a rule horses that show good track
form eventually repeat it in public, even
though they may fail on occasions before
doing so. Binnia Hero’s work at Rand-
wick has attracted attention for a long
time, but until the recent A.J.C. meet-
ing he did no good in races.
On Saturday, however, he was seen at
his best in City Tatt.’s Novice Handicap,
and won in style that said a great deal
for his prospects of further success.
Making light of his 8.10 he won easily
in fair time. Owned by L. J. McMaster,
he is by Heroic from Coolpa, and is
trained by W. Henderson.
Among the unplaced horses in Binnia
Hero’s race Valmiki was a trifle unlucky
not to have done better. He struck in-
terference through one or two others
falling back on him. Future racing by
him will be done in Adelaide. His owner
is going to reside in that city for some
time, and is taking Valmiki and one or
two others with him. Valmiki should
win there, and locally Kilogram, another
of the beaten division in the Novice
Handicap, should be worth following.
* * * *
St. Andrew acquitted himself well in
his division of the trials at Victoria Park
prior to the A.J.C. meeting, but his form
in the Breeders’ Plate scarcely suggested
he would win the two-year-old race at
City Tatt.’s meeting. Always prominent,
he had The Elk’s measure at the Leger,
and went away from him at the end,
third place going to All Agog, who, while
he will yet win races, is evidently not
out of the ordinary. Victorine did not
run with the same dash as the previous
week, and her fourth at the finish was
the nearest she ever got to the front.
The winner is a well-grown colt, standing
over a lot of ground, and cost 700gns.
as a yearling. Bookmaker J. Mandel has
been happy in his selection of yearlings,
and must either be a good judge or is well
advised.
Badly drawn in a couple of races at
the A.J.C. meeting Denis ran well, and
there was no suggestion of luck in his
Flying Handicap win at Randwick last
Saturday. When he was ahead of only
three others and a long way from the
leaders at the half-mile, W. Cook did
CAULFIELD. CUP:
(By. “PILOT.”)
Rivette .. .. .. .. 1
Respirator .. .. .. .. 2
Geebung or Feminist .. .. 3
FOR CAULFIELD.
SECOND DAY—WEDNESDAY.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Oby Hurdle Race: Cheery Jack,
1 ; Cape Race, 2 ; Glenlonan, 3.
Toolamba Nursery First
Division: Old Vienna, 1 ; Clarify, 2 ;
O Raklo, 3. Second Division:
Securities, 1 ; Darraweit, 2 ; Noble
Monarch, 3.
Caulfield Stakes: High Caste, 1 ;
Reading, 2 ; Beau Vite, 3.
Moora Welter: Good Boy, 1 ;
Aranui, 2 ; Brazen King, 3.
Coongy Handicap: Denis Girl,
1 ; Pibroch, 2 ; Fearless, 3.
Moonga Handicap: Tetreen, 1 ;
Crojick, 2 ; Rex Felt, 3.
THIRD DAY—SATURDAY.
Caulfield, Cup: Rivette, 1 ; Femi-
nist, 2 ; Geebung, 3.


ë
not bustle him in the least. It was after
turning into the straight that Denis did
his good work. Inside the last furlong
there was a possibility of his being
blocked, but he squeezed through in time
to defeat Brazandt almost on the post.
I heard the query of “What was the
matter with Delmestor?” Nothing, apart
from the fact that she had a little too
much weight to make her chance as good
as her price suggested. She is not a big
mare, by any means, and in 9.3 she had
a tidy load for a race at Randwick. Post-
man displayed plenty of dash, and June’s
return to the winning list is not far off.
Tobasco did not run nearly as well as
when he won at Canterbury Park last
month, but it must be added this was a
stronger field.
In winning City Tattersall’s Handicap
Bristol finished at a great rate on the
inside —he was fortunate in getting
through—and his success should have
been a real tonic for his owner. Many
backers had an idea that the distance
would be short for Bristol after his recent
longer races, but he was helped by the
pace set by Young Crusader and The
Blizzard in the early stages. The last-
mentioned two were still in charge round-
ing the home turn, where Katanga and
Vestal were well placed. Katanga nar-
rowly missed a place, but as he scarcely
ran up to the form necessary for a Vic-
toria Derby a trip to Brisbane may be
on the cards for him in preference to one
to Melbourne.
Salazar did well from the top of the
straight, but Sedunum and Speardale
were below their previous form. Any-
how, Sedunum probably has enough
weight to keep him out of the winning
list for some time. The fast pace at
the beginning did not favor Osculum.
By the time he fairly found his legs he
was a long way from the leaders, and
though he later moved up smartly he was
not dangerous in the run home.
Braidwood Boy, hurdled off at the
barrier, and last early, ran fairly, as did
Head Check, but Young Crusader’s effort
merely went towards confirming the idea
that it is not much use persevering with
him. The time, 2.3, was only a half-
second outside Phar Lap’s record for
Randwick, which said a great deal for
the condition of the track.
There is not a great deal of Athboy,
but he is decidedly tough. He had a
hard race in the Rosebery Handicap last
Wednesday, when, after doing all the
pacemaking, he was squeezed out of a
place almost on the winning-post. If
it had knocked him out it would not have
been surprising, but, so far from having
that effect, it sharpened him up. Never
further back than third in the Three- and
Four-year-old Handicap on Saturday, he
made a fast run in the straight, and won
easily. Pen, as at Rosebery, made a
good showing, as did Lord Valentine,
who can be put down as a winner in the
near future.
Owner F. W. Hughes was thoroughly
disgusted with Kooba’s showing in this
race. His fourth in Bramol’s Kensing-
ton Handicap on the opening day of the
A.J.C. meeting appeared to give him an
excellent chance, but he either wouldn’t
or couldn’t gallop. He was one of the
rear division throughout, which caused
his owner to remark: “His future racing
will be done as a gelding.” Early in his
career Kooba gave a deal of promise,
beating June, Pandava, Royal Prince and
Aeolus in the Kirkham Stakes, but he
went through last season without a win.
Poor as was Kooba’s showing it was
no worse than that of Benburb, who, on
his third to Gesar and Red Thespian in
the Chester Handicap, appeared to be
favorably treated. He did not give his
backers cause to be on good terms with
themselves at any part of the race. When
J. King decided to train his horses away
from Randwick his luck appeared to
desert him, but no doubt it will return
in due course. At the same time I have
always been of opinion that the trainer
who prepares his horses on a private
track is somewhat at a disadvantage in
gauging their chances. Admittedly, that
scarcely applied to Benburb, as he had
run well at Randwick only a week prior
to Saturday’s failure.
Cherry Bar continues to show form at
an age at which most mares are past
their prime. Her win in the Club Welter
at Randwick was her first this season,
but the way she bolted away from her
opponents at the finish suggested it would
not be long before she is again heard
from. As an owner-trainer E. Hunter-
Bowman has found racing satisfactory
with a small team. H. Oakes, his part-
ner in some horses, shares the honors
with him, the recent wins of Flying
Knight, Cherry Bar and Athboy giving a
return of £1575 in prize-money. I have
repeatedly heard trainers say “It pays
better to race and train a few horses of
your own than train for anyone else,”
and the experience of Bowman and
Oakes goes towards upholding that idea.
•••••*
Moorsotis attempted to win the Club
Welter almost from barrier-rise, but,
though he finished second, the fact that
an apprentice allowance of 51b. brought
him down to a pound below the adver-
tised minimum disposed of any idea that
he had pretensions to be considered
something more than moderate. He
may fare better when he returns home,
as he is fit and his Sydney failures entitle
him to more lenient treatment than, on
his form of last season, Maoriland handi-
cappers might have been inclined to
accord him.
In the Club Welter Breeze ran an-
other fair race, but Randwick seems to
be just too severe for her. When she
again wins for C. M. Sawyer it is likely
to be at one of the suburban tracks. In
the same race interference cost Rex a
place, and Tony’s effort indicated that
he is getting tired. Red Thespian has
reached a mark likely to keep him from
adding to his winning account for a time,
and though Lockray won at Rosebery
the previous Wednesday, beating The
Blizzard and Athboy among others, a
51b. penalty put him completely out of
court. Disalto’s recent win at Rosehill
must have been something of a flash in
the pan, and, though Forestage is down
near the minimum, a. return to his earlier
form still seems a long way off.
* * * *
In the last 20 years six first favorites
have won the Caulfield Cup, which is a
fair percentage, considering it is such a
hard race. Two of these were heavy-
weights, Amounis and Manfred. Sir
Simper was a short-priced favorite that
cut up badly, missing a place, as did
Royal Charter. Beginning with Night
Watch in 1919, favorites have fared as
under:
Price. Result.
1919 — Night Watch 5 to 2 Second
1920 Eurythmic 6 to 4 First
1921 Tangalooma 7 to 2 Unplaced
1922 — Stare 11 to 2 Unplaced
1923 The Cypher 4to 1 Unplaced
1924 — The Hawk 9 to 2 Unplaced
1925 — Whittier 9 to 2 First
1926 — Manfred 5 to 4 First
1927 Royal Charter 9 to 4 Unplaced
1928 Gothic 5 to 2 Third
1929 High Syce 2 to 1 First
1930 Amounis 2to 1 First
1931 — Vigne 5 to 2 Unplaced
1932 Induna 3 to 1 Unplaced
1933 — Kuvera 4to 1 Unplaced
1934 — Sir Simper 7to 4 Unplaced
1935 Marabou 4to 1 Third
1936 — Golden Promise 3 to 1 Unplaced
1937 — Silver Standard 9 to 2 Unplaced
1938 — Buzalong 11 to 2 First
While the Caulfield Cup has hit the
books hard on several occasions, it has
also given them a few good wins.
Outside those immediately connected
with him, Northwind was a winner few
expected, and when Wotan landed the
Melbourne Cup he completed a combina-
tion appreciated by double-layers. Start-
ing prices of the last twenty winners
were as under:
1919 — Lucknow, 8.6 (F. Bullock), 9 to 2.
1920 — Eurythmic, 8.9 (F. Dempsey), 6 to 4.
1921 Violoncello, 8.13 (W. Foulshanf), 16 to 1.
1922 — Whittier, 6.13 (E. Simmons), 16 to 1.
1923 — Wynette, 6.11 (E. Simmons), 5 to 1.
1924 — Purser, 9.5 (G. Young), 15 to 1.
1925 — Whittier, 9.0 (J. Pike), 9 to 2.
1926 — Manfred, 9.6 (R. Lewis), 5 to 4.
1927 — Textile, 8.3 (W. Scanlon), 20 to 1.
1928 — Maple, 8.7 (W. Duncan), 7 to 1.
1929 — High Syce, 9.4 (W. Duncan), 2 to 1.
19,30 —Amounis, 9.8 (W. Cook), 2 to 1.
1931 — Denis Boy, 7.0 (A. Knox), 12 to 1.
1932 Rogilla, 7.12 (G. Robinson), 10 to 1.
1933 — Gaine Carrington, 8.13 (J. Pike), 12 to 1.
1934 — Journal, 7.13 (A. Knox), 7 to 1.
1935 — Palfresco, 7.1 (N. Percival), 20 to 1.
1936 — Northwind, 7.6 (H. Badger), 66 to 1.
1937 — The Trump, 7.12 (A. Reed), 6 to 1.
1938 — Buzalong, 8;6 (F. Shean), 11 to 2.
* * * *
The extra half-mile may make a differ-
ence, but it now looks as if High Caste
will be able to wait on Reading until well
in the straight in the Victoria Derby
and beat him. There was nothing be-
tween them in the A.J.C. Derby, but
High Caste showed improved form in
“The Gov'merit's buyin' remounts, Ma. Wot d’yer think I oughter ask
f'r Blossom?"
the Craven Plate, and racing is benefiting
him. In the Guineas it was further
demonstrated that Pure Gold was not
nearly so good as supposed, and it may
not be thought worth while running him
for the Derby.
Wilson’s form was not an improve-
ment upon that shown by him in Sydney,
and, notwithstanding the belief that stay-
ing is his forte, the next fortnight will
have to do a lot for him to enable him
to down High Caste and Reading. I
shall be among the many surprised if he
does. Recently I wrote that Wilson gave
me the idea that he would be better
suited by a lighter scale of weights in
handicaps than he would by those of
classic races, and the Caulfield Guineas
result did not give any cause to depart
from that opinion. He was somewhat
sore on Saturday. High Caste’s win was
his eighth since H. E. Tancred gave about
£7OOO for him, and, inclusive of minor
place-money, he has earned £11,910 for
that owner. I have often heard it argued
that it is better to give a high price for
a horse that has form to recommend him
than to go to four figures for a yearling.
In High Caste’s case that idea has proved
correct.
In the way of racing plums D. U.
Seaton has had his share, even though
of recent years the cognomen of “Lucky
Dan” has not been so apt as at one time.
Included in his little lot are a Melbourne
Cup (Westcourt), two Epsom Handicaps
(Wolaroi and Geebung), Victoria Derby
(Wolaroi), V.R.C. Sires’ Produce Stakes
(Wolaroi), Breeders’ Plate (Wolaroi),
A.J.C. Champagne Stakes (Wolaroi) and
Villiers Stakes (Lady Ruenalf). Wolaroi
also gave him a good run for a Caulfield
Cup, getting second with 9.3 to King
Offa. As a breeder for the market
Seaton has yet to make his mark,
though he is hopeful that Theo will
assist in bringing his stud into promi-
nence.
% * * *
In the first division of the Flying
Handicap at Rosebery the Maorilander
Pen ran his best race since he arrived
in Sydney. After being interfered with
by Dark Lover at barrier-rise he led at
the half-mile and into the straight, but
Rival Chief was a little too good for him
at the finish. It was Rival Chief’s first
win since last year’s Canonbury Stakes.
Although bright last week, he looked as
if he could be further improved, and a
rise in weight for his win will not put
another win beyond him at an early
date. Fernacre was well backed for
Rival Chief’s race, but did not threaten
danger at any stage. He was favorably
handicapped, but when heavily-topped
aged stallions lose form they are gener-
ally a long time in regaining it.
* * * *
Fourteen-two pony races often puzzle
backers. This was further demonstrated
at Rosebery last week, when 5 to 1 was
at one stage, on offer against any of the
most fancied of the 10 runners. The
winner turned up in the seven-year-old
mare Pacodal, who was a champion in
her own class about two and a half years
ago. One of her wins was with 11.2
(minimum 6.12) in a Fourteen-one
Handicap at Victoria Park. It is re-
markable the way some of these ponies
can carry weight, which upholds the
contention of good judges that it is
a horse’s action more than size that
counts in that respect.
* * * *
Trueness has won £l7OO in two races,
so she is now well ahead of the 550
guineas she cost as a yearling. As she
was not really smart off the mark in the
Gimcrack Stakes at Randwick, I thought
the furlong shorter distance would tell
against her at Caulfield. It did not, as
she was one of the leaders turning for
home, and then finished too strongly
for Heart’s Desire in time that was only
a quarter-second slower than Florin
recorded in the Debutant Stakes. True-
ness ran unpenalised on Saturday, but
has to put up 71b. extra in the Maribyr-
nong Plate. However, as she is well
grown and strong, 8.7 should not seri-
ously trouble her. Penalised fillies have
a fair record in the Maribymong Plate,
those successful with extra weight being
Hortense, Maltine, Desert Rose, Sweet
Lady, Fidelity and Sweet Memories. Pay-
ten, who trains Trueness, is having a
great spring, and it is impossible to say
how far his good fortune will carry him.
* * * *
Brisbane backers got a shock on Satur-
day when Brisbane River was defeated in'
the Queensland Guineas. On previous
form he did look a 2-to-l-on chance, but
after being cannoned into by another
horse at the start, and being knocked out
of his stride, he was beaten by the second
favorite, Spearace, who adds to the many
smart horses sired by Spearfelt. In the
circumstances, Brisbane River was not
actually discredited, but it is worth noting
that the time was 1.40, against the 1.39
recorded in the Novice Handicap later in
the day. Last season Spearace won two
races, and presumably he will be among
Katanga’s Q.T.C. Derby opponents if the
latter goes to Brisbane. The fact of Bris-
bane River not being quite the champion
supposed—even allowing for interference
—should be encouraging to the owner of
Katanga. Though the latter is not a
High Caste or a Reading, his form in
City Tattersall’s Handicap was good
enough to make him a troublesome oppo-
nent for any three-year-olds just shon
of first-class.
* * * *
Several Australian jockeys have shone
in England, and it is certain W. Cook
would do so if he were to try his luck in
that country. In England more short
races are run on straight than on cir-
cular courses. Conditions in those would
be thoroughly to Cook’s liking, and he
would only need to ride up to his Aus-
tralian form to hold his own against
England’s best. There is little likelihood,
however, of Cook going beyond India if
he should again leave Australia, though
it is probable he would command a good
retainer from some leading English stable.
It would also seem doubtful whether
riding in England is of a very high stand-
ard at present. Up to the beginning of
last month Gordon Richards had shown
his superiority by winning more than
twice as many races as any other jockey,
and in winning percentage he was a long
way in advance of his opponents. He
FOR WARWICK FARM
to be held at RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
Maiden Handicap: Prince Ariel,
1 ; Woolooga, 2 ; Mettara, 3.
Greystanes Juvenile: Dark Ele-
gance, 1 ; Indian Emperor, 2 ; All
Agog, 3.
Macquarie Grove Handicap:
Athboy, 1 ; Rex, 2 ; Perimond, 3.
Varroville Handicap: Brazandt,
1 ; Sigh, 2 ; Might Not, 3.
Homebush Handicap: Osculum,
1 ; Braidwood Boy, 2 ; Gold Pan, 3.
Progressive Handicap: Lord
Valentine, 1; Galtheon, 2; Electra, 3.


Mick Simmons'
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
m.
LIONL'L UlliliY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
llallistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
e
No. 43—COOEY ACE No. 1,
.22 calibre, bolt action, single
shot, for short, long or long-rifle.
Walnut stock; safety feature,
N>|m vj
. barrel. Weight,
£l/7/6
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 376.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD
S.S. RIFLE, MODEL 83, 22-cal.,
bolt action, 24in. round barrel,
gold bead front and ladder rear
sight; weight, about
51b.
£2/12/6
Postage, 2 /-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action,
.22 calibre, rim-fire, 27in
round blued steel barrel
ladder rear sight;
weight, s^lb.
£2/15/-
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 32 BROWNING
“TROMBONE” HAM-
MERLESS REPEATING
RIFLE, 22in. round steel
barrel; handles 22 short,
long or long-rifle cart-
ridges; screw rear and
open front sights;
length overall, 39in.;
weight over-
all, 4Jib.. . .
w
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G., top lever bar
action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke,
rebounding locks, crossbolt, snap fore-
end, half-pistol grip, walnut
stock
£l6/16/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 27—8.5. A. D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
SHOT GUN, Wildfowling Model, 12G.,
30in. barrels, both choke; nitro-
proof automatic safety chambered for
3in. cartridges;
81b.
weight,
£2l/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 —FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G„
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip,
Initro proof; weight, about 71b.
£ll/11/-
Carriage Paid
No. 14 A—FABRIQUE NATION ALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G. (
similar to No. 14, but very high-grade,
with ejector;
about 71b. .. .
weight,
£l3/13/
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
had averaged slightly better than one win
in five mounts, while Nevett and E.
Smith, who were nearest him in number
of wins, had respectively averaged one in
seven and one in ten. The ability of the
younger English riders is discounted by
the fact that, apart from those men-
tioned, veterans have also done well this
season. B. Carslake, M. Beary and T.
Weston, who have been riding over a
a long period, have had their full share
of wins.
* * * *
Bulandshar has sired more gallopers
than High Caste. At the Hastings meet-
ing this month his three-year-old son
Scandal won the Imperial Plate, 5} fur-
longs, and Indore, who is also by him,
was second in the Hastings Plate, a two-
year-old race that had been put on the
programme for the first time since 1922.
Indore is owned by A. Williams, who
won the race in both years prior to the
club dropping it.
* * * *
After her good second in the Herbert
Power Handicap Rivette’s favoritism for
the Caulfield Cup was certain. On Mon-
day Fearless and Respirator were near-
est her, and they were closely followed
by Feminist and Geebung. Next was
Reading succeeded by Buzalong, Carpen-
tier and Pantler. For the Melbourne Cup
Mosaic, Feminist and Bourbon, in that
order, were most popular, and then
Beau Vite, Son of Aurous, Wilson and
Respirator.
* * * *
A correspondent, signing himself
“Fair Play No. 2,” has a grievance
against the A.J.C. in connection with its
election of members. I am not uphold-
ing his ideas, but his letter is entitled to
insertion. He writes as follows: —■
Membership of the A.J.C. to-day appears
to be almost impossible to secure by ordi-
nary means of approach. Application
forms for membership when asked for are
usually ignored, and any ordinary member
of, the public desiring to make an applica-
tion must do so through “backdoor”
channels, usually apparently through the
office of the leading social clubs.
Cannot the A.J.C. be approached regard-
ing the increasing of the number of mem-
bers and also admitting members without
their having to run the gauntlet of social
clubs when they wish to join what should
be purely a racing club? •
* * * *
The fact of a bookmaker refusing a
10s. bet in the paddock brought him into
collision with the stewards of Randwick.
His excuse was plausible, but why does
not the A.J.C., in issuing licenses to book-
makers, set forth a minimum they are
expected to take? Some bookmakers in
a really big way do not mind accepting
55., and do so with good grace, not as
if they were granting a backer a special
favor. Another little point many book-
makers work in their own favor is that
if a backer puts 10s. on a 7-to-4 chance
they pay him 275. if it wins, retaining
the additional 6d. that rightly belongs
to him. If he asks for it he is likely to
be told “Can’t bother with sixpences,”
though it would be just as fair for him
to expect 28s. as for the bookmaker to
pay him sixpence short.
* * * *
W. Lappin is out of hospital, but, at
earliest, he will not be riding again be-
fore Christmas. He is to have a few
weeks’ holiday in the country, and will
then resume riding work, of which he
will do a good deal before he again
figures in races. During his stay in hos-
pital Lappin has put on a lot of weight,
and he may not be able to ride as light
in future as in the past.
* * * *
F. D. Jones is leaving Sydney for
Wellington on Friday with Royal Chief
and Moorsotis, who will go on to Christ-
church for the New Zealand Cup meet-
ing. Beau Repaire and Olympus will be
shipped to Auckland to-day. Royal Chief
stood his racing at Randwick as well
as his trainer could wish, and will be
ready to run in the New Zealand Cup.
In that he has 9.6, but as the minimum
is 7.0 he is better treated than he was in
the Metropolitan. With the minimum
6.7 he had 9.9 in that race. Beaupartir
has 8.13 in the New Zealand Cup, but
though he won the St. Leger at the Auck-
land meeting there are many Maori-
landers who are not yet satisfied that he
will prove a great stayer.
* * * *
Mildura has been sent to Melbourne
for the Cantala Stakes, in which he has
8.3. He is sure to acquit himself better
than in the Epsom Handicap, but, so far
as winning is concerned, there does not
seem much hope for him when in receipt
of only 21b. from Manrico.
* * * *
Men who followed racing between 40
and 50 years ago hold that the best riders
of those days were superior to those of
the present. Comparison is difficult, as
long w.f.a. races were generally run in
much the same fashion that brought
about so much condemnation of the
recent Randwick Plate. A slow pace
early, with riders waiting for the “last
run.” Few made the mistake of wishing
to have a race won at the top of the
straight, which, it must be admitted, is
a common error nowadays with many
jockeys. When in America it struck me
that some riders were satisfied so long as
they were in the lead at some part, and
even at big meetings in Australia horses
are repeatedly handled as if their riders
had an idea the race ended immediately
the straight was entered.
Another thing hard to understand is
why, with the pace slow in the first part
of a fairly long handicap, lightly-weighted
horses are kept in the rear. It disposes
of their pull in weight being an advan-
tage, as when the pace is cracked on
they are often giving away considerable
start six furlongs from home.
* * * *
J. Higgins, whose health prevented him
from coming to Sydney to take up an
official position with the A.J.C., made
such a good recovery after his operation
in France that he was on his way to
Australia in August, but the boat on
which he was travelling was comman-
deered at Bombay. In consequence he
will not be returning for some time, and
at latest was spending a few weeks at
Poona. He sent me a most comprehen-
sive racebook for Poona. It covers nearly
everything that is possible, including
results throughout Western India, gallops,
trainers’ lots, licenses, owners’ winnings,
successful jockeys and comments. I
noticed that A. Higgins had a team
of 39, but was beaten by V. V. Power
with 50.
* * * *
People will bet and buy lottery tickets,
and, in my opinion, if their weakness
in that respect is helpful to charity organi-
sations something is gained. Talk of
“tainted money” is unwarranted. The
Stock Exchange is as much a medium
for gambling as a racecourse. It is often
a case of betting on the rise or fall of
shares. Someone has to lose, and it is
improbable any church would refuse a
donation from a winner on the score that
the money had been gained at the ex-
pense of someone else. However, I sup-
pose Stock Exchange gambling is respect-
able, and that on a racecourse is not.
* * * *
I have often heard it said “Hurdle
riders are hard to kill,” and it is astound-
ing what they stand in the way of falls
without being seriously injured. Bruce
Hobbs, who won the Liverpool Grand
National Steeplechase on the American
horse Battleship in 1938, was so badly
hurt at Cheltenham in November last
that it was considered doubtful whether
he would ever ride again. He fractured
a bone in his spine. A piece of bone
was taken from his shin and grafted on
to the spine, and he was then encased
in plaster of Paris for nearly three
months.
He made a marvellous recovery, and
resumed riding early in August. After
a few mounts he won a selling hurdle
race at Buckfastleigh on August 26, and,
as he is now only 19, he still has plenty
of time in which to win another
National.
* * * *
The best two-year-old seen out in
America this season is a colt called
Bimelech, owned by the 79-year-old
breeder Col. E. R. Bradley, the names
of whose horses all commence with “B.”
Col. Bradley was not well enough to
attend the Saratoga meeting, but his
doctor gave him permission to listen to
the broadcast of a race in which Bimelech
was a runner. The doctor said he
thought he had better be present in
order to make sure that his patient did
not become too excited. It did not work
out quite that way. During the running
of the race the doctor became so ex-
cited that Col. Bradley suggested he
should take one of his own pills and
calm himself down.
Up to the beginning of September
Bimelech had won the four races in
which he started, their value being
approximately £AII,OOO. He is abso-
lutely the last of the progeny of Black
Toney, who was 24 when he sired him.
Bimelech’s dam, Troienne, was nine
when he was foaled.
* * * *
A few days prior to the abandonment
of the St. Leger meeting in England the
Doncaster hotel and restaurant pro-
prietors were in a dilemma. In ordinary
circumstances they would have been
ordering large additional supplies of food
and drink a fortnight before the fixture,
but they dared not owing to the possi-
bility of war breaking out. It was as
well they refrained, as they would have
had a tremendous amount of foodstuff
left on their hands. Racing fixtures were
greatly affected even before the declara-
tion of war. Writing at the end of
August, a contributor said he had never
seen so few people at Gatwick even at
a jumping meeting, and in the trains race-
goers did not touch upon the day’s pro-
gramme, but discussed the war problem
from all points.
* * * •
Challedon (Challenger 11.-Laura Gal;
has displaced Johnstown as America’s
crack three-year-old. At Lexington, Ken-
tucky, last week he made a world’s nine-
and-a-half-furlongs record of 1.54 3-5. In
Australia that is an unusual distance at
any important meeting. However, the
W. S. Cox Plate, at Moonee Valley, is
run at it, and Ajax’s time last year was
1.56 J. Last month Challedon won the
Narragansett Special at Narragansett
Park (Rhode Island). Carrying 8.6 he
easily beat the Santa Anita Handicap
winner Kayak 11. (9.2) in 1.56 3-5 for nine
and a half furlongs. The net value to
the winner was £A6150, and made Challe-
don’s earnings at two and three years
£A51,900. His latest win will send that
up considerably. Kayak ll.’s second
carried £lOOO, which made his total
£39,000.
The Travers Stakes, at Saratoga, was
reckoned a soft thing for Johnstown,
but, owing to the track being muddy, he
was withdrawn on the day of the race.
This left only three runners, and Eight
Thirty won as he liked from Sun Lover
and Sir Marlboro, their owners re-
spectively receiving £4140, £750 and £375.
The going could not have been so bad,
as the mile and a quarter was run in
2min. 6 3-ssec.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The fog of war has swallowed up
Henneberry, but he is reported to have
left England disgusted with the preoccu-
pation of English pugs with the war. The
young man offered his services to the
War Office as physical-culture instructor
and didn’t even get a reply. He is not
the first Australian pug to learn that war
is a cow, especially when it clashes with
pugilism.
* * * *
At Newcastle on Saturday Kui Kong
Young stopped Billy Gill, one of two
fighting brothers, in five rounds. On the
same night in Perth, Joe Hall got a de-
cision over Danny la Verne, who claims
a decision over Kui. Hall —twice knocked
out by the Chinee —is now a lightweight.
* * * *
Clingan, the Sydney youngster who is
building up to fight Henneberry when
that wanderer returns, suffed a reverse
last week —his first in 33 matches. He
was outpointed at Carlton by the much
more experienced Bob Clarke. Clarke set
up a lead in the first few rounds, and held
it by doing a lot more clinging than
Clingan, who always wanted to fight but
wasn’t always allowed. The decision —
Joe Wallis’s —was questioned, and Clingan
threatens to spare Wallis the trouble in
the return bout which has been arranged.
At present the young man is at an awk-
ward weight, 10.12, but he should be a
real “middle” in a few months.
* * * *
“This is my last fight,” said Claude
Varner before he entered the West Mel-
bourne ring for a mill with Hutchinson,
the black, a week ago. At the end of
the tenth round, when he had not only
taken a terrific hiding but had “done ’ees
’and,” his manager asked the referee,
Jack Carroll, to stop it. “Quit in my
last fight?” quoth the gallant American.
“Not me.” So he ambled up again to
take more punishment, and it was so
appalling that this time the referee inter-
posed without reference to boxers or
seconds. Varner is to settle in Australia
and combine pub-keeping with racing.
One calling should suffice, if he has got a
good stand.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
There is no doubt that the most im-
portant stroke in golf is the shot to the
green.
From either the fairway or rough
the match-winning shots are those
aimed to find the green and give a
player a putt for his birdie. While accu-
racy from the tees is the object of every
golfer, whether he be on scratch or the
limit, I have always concentrated upon
the short iron shots to the pin as being
the surest road to successful golf. If a
player can master his short iron play he
can afford at times to be inaccurate and
still score in his usual manner.
Perfected by the American profes-
sionals some years ago when they domi-
nated the game, these stroke-savers have


Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1517 of 1939.
BETWEEN CECIL HENRY RICE Petitioner
And AGNES FERGUSON formerly Agnes
Mischke (falsely called and known as Amy
Stella Kirby).
TO AGNES FERGUSON.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CECIL
HENRY RICE has commenced a suit against
you in this Honorable Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the ground
that the ceremony performed between you and
himself on the Fourth December One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-seven was null and
void and of no effect AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the ninth day
of January One thousand nine hundred and
forty and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED the Tenth day of October One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
J. CLOUSTON, DIVE & SHORT, Solicitors
for Petitioner, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1781 of 1939.
BETWEEN EILEEN LINDA CARRICE
DOBBIE Petitioner
And WILLIAM KENNETH DOBBIE
Respondent.
TO WILLIAM KENNETH DOBBIE late of
Broken Hill in the State of New South
TAKE 'NOTICE that the said EILEEN
LINDA CARRICE DOBBIE has commenced
a suit against you in this Court and is applying
for the dissolution of her marriage on the
grounds of your desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Tenth
day of January One thousand nine hundred
and forty and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition in this
suit may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twelfth day of October One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
W. C. BEERWORTH, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 233 Argent Street, Broken Hill; by his
Agent, JOHN H. PEOPLES, 77-79 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO GILBERT MARTIN formerly of Brisbane
in the State of Queensland then of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales but
whose present whereabouts are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane in the State of
Queensland by writ of summons numbered
462 of 1939 by SARAH MARTIN your wife
in which she claims a dissolution of her mar-
riage with you and the custody of Margaret
Martin one of the children of the said marriage
and by her petition filed herein she alleges since
the month of August or September One thou-
sand nine hundred and twenty-five you without
cause deserted her and such desertion has con-
tinued up to the date of the said petition AND
IT HAS BEEN ORDERED that service of the
petition and of the writ of summons on you
be effected by advertising this notice once in
the “Courier-Mail” and once in the Sydney
“Bulletin” and by sending a copy of the said
order to you by prepaid registered post
addressed to you care of your sister Mrs. Pol-
gloss Marrickville Road Marrickville Sydney in
the State of New South Wales If you desire
to defend this action you must within thirty-
seven days from the doing of the last act done
in pursuance of the said order enter an appear-
ance at the said Registry and in default of
such appearance judgment may be entered
against you.
DATED this Sixth day of October, 1939.
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
J. J. ROWELL, Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
Courier Building, Queen Street, Brisbane.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
TO TED BEECHMAN formerly of 179 Wharf
Street Brisbane in the State of Queensland
but whose present whereabouts are un-
known.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced by NEVILLE RAYMOND
WICKENS in the Supreme Court of Queens-
land by writ of summons No. 451 of 1939
against ADA AILEEN WATTS WICKENS as
defendant and against you as co-defendant and
by his petition filed herein he alleges that on
the Fourteenth day of August One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine at 183 Wharf
Street Brisbane aforesaid you committed
adultery with the said Ada Aileen Watts
Wickens AND it has been ordered that the
publication of this notice once in each of the
following newspapers namely the Sydney
“Bulletin” published in Sydney in the State of
New South Wales the Brisbane “Courier-Mail”
and the “Telegraph” both of which news-
papers are published in Brisbane aforesaid
and service of a copy of the said order on the
said Ada Aileen Watts Wickens by prepaid
registered letter to her at Kalinga Road
Kalinga Brisbane aforesaid shall be deemed
good and sufficient service of the said peti-
tion and of the said writ of summons on you
If you desire to defend this action you must
within thirty days from the date of the per-
formance of the last act done in pursuance of
the said order enter an appearance at the
Registry of the said Court and that in default
of your so doing the plaintiff may proceed in
the action by leave of the Court or a Judge
thereof and judgment may be given against you
in your absence.
DATED the Ninth day of October, 1939.
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1490 of 1939.
BETWEEN MARY URWIN (formerly Mary
Sheldon) of Turrama Street Wallsend in
the State of New South Wales wife of
Roy Methuen Ur win of Clarke Street
Wallsend in the said State Labourer Peti-
tioner
And the said ROY METHUEN URWIN
of Clarke Street Wallsend in the said State
Labourer Respondent. ,
TO ROY METHUEN URWIN of Clarke
Street Wallsend in the State of New South
Whiles
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
URWIN has commenced a suit against you m
this Honorable Court and is applying for dis-
solution of marriage on the ground of deser-
tion by you for three yea™ and
out just cause or excuse AND TAKE NO 1 ICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Honorable Court on or before the Eighth day
of December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not so
doing within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed Solicitors free of charge.
DATED this Thirteenth day of September
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
H. V. HARRIS, WHEELER & WILLIAMS,
Solicitors for Petitioner, Newcastle; by their
Agents, LAURENCE & LAURENCE, Solici-
tors, 44-46 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1481 of 1939.
BETWEEN LILIAN LEONE WILSON Peti-
tioner
And HENRY ALFRED WILSON Re-
spondent.
TO HENRY ALFRED WILSON late of Dubbo
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife LILIAN
LEONE WILSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of your marriage on
the grounds that you have deserted her for
three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-seventh day of
December One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine AND in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of September,
1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
McINTYRE, CONLON & CO., Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1759 of 1939.
BETWEEN GWENDOLINE PEARL LOUISA
GARLAND (formerly Gwendoline Pearl
Louisa Stock well) of 71 Peter Street Wagga
Wagga Petitioner
And CYRIL JAMES GARLAND Re-
spondent.
TO CYRIL JAMES GARLAND late of Warr-
nambool in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GWENDO-
LINE PEARL LOUISA GARLAND has com-
menced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Third day of January One thousand
nine hundred and forty and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or
obtaining further time the Petitioner will pro-
ceed and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Sixth day of October One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
LUSHER, YOUNG & STELLWAY, Solici-
tors for Petitioner, Fitzmaurice Street, Wagga
Wagga; by their Agent, C. THROSBY
YOUNG, 26 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TO WILLIAM WHITWORTH, formerly of
Rupert Street, Collingwood, and 172
Princess Street, Kew, Driver.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife, ELSIE
IRENE WHITWORTH, has instituted proceed-
ings against you for divorce on the ground
of three years’ desertion. Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before
the 27th day of October, 1939, and unless
you file an answer in the said office on or
before the Bth day of November, 1939, the
case may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs.
WISEWOULD & DUNCAN, 408 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
TO THOMAS MAHER of parts unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife BERYL
JEAN MAHER has instituted divorce proceed-
ings against you on the ground of desertion
Unless you enter an appearance in the Pro-
thonotary’s office of the Supreme Court of
Victoria in Melbourne on or before the Third
day of November 1939 the case may proceed
in your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs.
JOHN T. RYAN, LL.B., of 263 Smith Street,
Fitzroy, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO HERBERT HORACE PARRY of parts
unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife HILDA
MARGARET PARRY has instituted divorce
proceedings against you on the ground of de-
sertion Unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s office of the Supreme Court
of Victoria in Melbourne on or before the
Third day of November 1939 the case may
proceed in your absence and you may be
ordered to pay costs.
JOHN T. RYAN, LL.B., of 263 Smith
Street, Fitzroy, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
been the means of substantially reducing
the rate of scoring in recent years.
Short irons that number from No. 6 to
No. 8 are the backbone of good golf.
While I use the same grip for all shots
except putting, when I make a slight
alteration, the left hand is not quite so
far over the shaft for the No. 8 as in the
case of No. 6 or No. 7 irons. Naturally,
in using these clubs the player is forced
to stand a good deal closer to the ball
than with the more powerful clubs, and
consequently the stance is altered a little.
I prefer a fairly open stance, with the
left foot pointing toward the hole at an
angle of approximately 30 degrees, the
right foot square on to the line of
flight. This stance gives me a comfort-
able and relaxed position to play the
shot and ample freedom to swing the
arms and wrists, while the hips are not
locked in any manner. Some golfers
in their stance for similar shots give an
awkward and stiff appearance, and hinder
themselves from having any relaxation
whatever during the stroke.
When called upon to play a short iron
shot, many people think the swing has
to be curtailed. This is a mistaken idea,
for it is a dangerous practice to restrict
the swing too much. When any attempt
is made to secure reasonable length with
a short backswing, there is a tendency to
bring the body into the stroke too much
and so cause a mishit. Several years ago
when I began gradually to shorten my
swing, I discovered this fault creeping
into the shot. The short iron shots must
he hit firmly at all times. It is much
safer to take a nearly-full swing than to
try to force the ball further than it should
g °.
Perhaps the most deadly of all short
iron players was the old master, Walter
Hagen. The winner of over 50 major
titles in his remarkable career, he could
place the ball nearer the pin with these
clubs than any golfer I have seen. Hagen
used a fairly long backswing for the shot,
striking the ball crisply and firmly.
An error often committed by the aver-
age player is to open the face of the club
in an effort to assist the ball into the air.
While using extremely lofted clubs this
only courts disaster, as it is so easy to
slip under the ball; there is really suffi-
cient loft on the club to get the ball into
the air without “urging.”
The backswing is not so much for the
short irons as for the longer irons. I have
found the clubhead should be taken
back a little sooner from the ground, but
the downswing is made in a reasonably
slow manner till the hands begin to speed
the clubhead to the ball. The hips do
not play such an active part in the
swing as with the stronger clubs. In my
style I use little pivoting going back, all
the pivoting coming into the shot for the
follow-through. If much hip-moving is
introduced into short iron play it has a
tendency to promote a slight sway, and
as a result loss of accuracy. The less
body-swing, turn or pivot, the greater the
accuracy. The use of the putter demon-
strates this point.
As the short irons are sometimes used
in the playing of a shot where “stop” is
necessary, the ball can be so struck that
it will pull up quickly on landing. Of the
various ways to apply “cut” to a ball the
safest is to swing slightly outside the
normal course of the backswing ; then
when the clubhead sweeps down and on
to the ball a slicing or cutting blow is
made, sending the ball away with back-
spin. Most of the leading players use
this method in playing stop-shots. It
must, however, be remembered that the
ball should be hit firmly, as any slack-
ness that creeps in usually sees the shot
spoilt by being hit too cleanly. The back-
swing for this stroke is in no way re-
stricted, but it needs to be practised until
the clubhead naturally moves along the
correct line.
Of all my clubs the No. 8 is most im-
portant, as it is called upon to play all
the delicate shots around the greens. By
improving one’s play with this club the
other irons are made easier to master, for
the skilful use of a niblick will enable a
player to return respectable scores. By
no means the easiest clubs to play, the
short irons can surmount many an ob-
stacle, while the confidence gained in the
making of the shots will dissipate many
mental hazards.
Ins and Outs
Going in first for Mosman v. Waver-
ley on the Mosman Oval, McCabe
made 127 in 134 minutes —out of 340
in 217 minutes. He hit six sixes and
12 fours. If the young man goes on
batting in the same carefree spirit and
other young men follow the good
example, grade cricket will have a revival.
Human, the Englishman, plays for
Waverley ; he has already shown that he
regards cricket as a game and not as a
solemn ritual or something like that.
It is to be hoped that McCabe will
figure as “opener” in Sheffield Shield and
Test matches. The notion that opening
batsmen should be exponents of stodge
like Woodfull and Fingleton is due for
permanent burial. Trumper used to bat
first.
* * * *
“What will they say of this in Eng-
land?” Rogers, the Queensland cricketer,
has been refused membership of an ama-
teur swimming club on the ground that
he is a professional. He drew 17s. 6d.
a day for playing in Sheffield Shield
matches, and the amateur rule is that
ss. a day for “loss of time” is the limit.
The interpretation is strictly correct, but
in England all Australian Test-match
men are accepted as amateurs.
* * * *
Determined to go one better this
season and win the Sheffield Shield, the
Queenslanders are making methodical
preparations. They have chosen 19
players to practise for the State XI, and
if Allen, Bill Tallon and Stibe come
down from the country there will be 22
—material for two pretty good elevens.
Brown, will, of course, captain the side
finally selected, and he will have capital
support from Rogers, Cook, Christ and
Don Tallon. The other Tallon is being
threatened for his place by Govan, who
played for Queensland seven years ago
as a very youthful slow bowler, and has
developed into an all-rounder. Dixon
will be a certainty, if available, but he
hurt a finger playing football and has
not appeared in club matches.
Miscellaneous.
Bruce Ryan, who this year captained
the St. Joseph’s College footballers and
whose speed on the wing was largely re-
sponsible for their unbeaten record, won
the 100, the 220 and the 440 at the
N.S.W. G.P.S. athletic meeting. The
youngster’s best effort was in the 100,
cut out in lOsec. for the first time since
Jimmy Carlton put up even time in 1927.
An untimed run by Ryan over 110 yards
in the 440 relay must have been quite as
good. A heavily-built youth, Ryan, war
permitting, intends to forget football in
favor of a sprinting career. His school
won the championship.
Other promising youths showed their
paces on the Sydney C.G. High, which
finished second to St. Joseph’s, was rep-
resented by Kaad, who was first in the
120 yards hurdles and second in the
broad jump ; and by Fagg, who won the
880 in 2min. 2sec. Gallard, of King’s,
was second to Ryan in both hundred
and furlong, and won the broad jump.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Another episode in the war
between the bosses of the N.S.W. Swim-
ming Association and Sheedy, the Perth
secretary of the A.S.U., was the wiping-
out of the disqualification imposed on
Australian championette Dorothy Green
by the Westralian association for dis-
obedience or something. The N.S.W. vote
on the A.S.U. decided the matter. There
followed bitter Sydney-Perth exchanges.
I don’t pretend to know the rights and
wrongs of the matter, but Sydney’s anti-
Sheedy attitude seems rather stupid, and
its opposition to a “village” having the
secretaryship (Perth is a larger city than
Helsinki, now so much in the news) was
expressed in the paltriest spirit of Big
City arrogance. In Sheedy’s time, at all
events, Westralian swimming has made
a marvellous advance, whereas Sydney
form has gone to the bow-wows. In
other days Sydney used to have all the
champions. How many has it had in the
last 16 or 17 years? Only two: Charlton
and Miss Dennis.
* * * *
“T.”: An elderly Sydney lawn-tennis
pussonality has obliged a morning paper
with his idea of the noblest answer
unto such as Hitler. It is: ‘“Nothing
doing,’ we say. ‘Fight on! Finish the
dreadful business now, once and for all
time.’ ” And again: “Let us all be of
good heart and fight on for the common
good.” Splendid; and if this is now
the attitude of the N.S.W. controlling
body the enemy is lost. Six weeks ago the
attitude of G.H.Q. was that it would be
a crime against civilisation or something
like that to bring the Davis Cup team
back from the nootral Republic straight-
way. In particular, it would be a felon
blow to their nootral hosts. So the young
men—two of whom are in the militia —
remained, and last week they were still
playing somewhere on the Pacific Slope
in some competition or other, and not
doing particularly well. On Saturday
they were to have “picked up the Davis
Cup at Los Angeles.” No doubt they
will be back in Australia in time to play
in a victory tournament.


ŵ
ẁ
AT THE.
TIVOLI
SYDNEY
Twice Dai/if . 230-8
THE WORLD-FAMOUS MIXES BROS.,
4 Boys and a Guitar.
New Oversea Stars.
NICK liUCAS,
The Sinjrinff Troubador.
SCOTT SANDERS, Famous Comedian,
and New Stars.
AT THE TALKIES.
Most remarkable sight witnessed in the
past week was at Sydney Plaza: women
of all the ages, shapes and sizes they run
to leaping 2ft. to 3ft. into the air from
a sitting start! In some cases of special
prowess they must have been springing
even higher. There was clear daylight
under ’em.
It wasn’t one of those edifying screened
contests showing how the American
housewife keeps her hand in at heaving-
the-teapot, lifting-the-spongecake and
suchlike competition. It wasn’t Ameri-
can at all, but Australian; and it wasn’t
There was clear daylight under ’em.
happening on the screen, but throughout
the audience. They were literally leaping
with (or from) laughter.
From a back pew the scene and sounds
down the extensive slope of the stalls
were extraordinary. The ladies (box-
office aside: God bless ’em!) are the
main patrons of morning sessions, and,
this being one, were there in force ; and
they must afterwards have had their
heaviest week-end for years sewing up
what they’d bust.
* * * *
The real cause of it all was, in a way,
even more extraordinary. Judged by
Letters to Editors and other literary com-
pilations, there are worried souls ready
to hurl themselves over the Gap in de-
spair because, from studying birthrate
statistics, they’re convinced that the
female of the species has reneged on her
job, and isn’t going to have any more.
Well, maybe ; but the cause of this Plaza
mirth was a film concerning a fragment
of humanity wrapped in a shawl. It
was discussion relevant to the parentage
and feeding of this bundle that produced
the shrieking and leaping ; but to present
onlooker it seemed to be first of all a
sympathetic interest in the bundle itself
that induced the mood making those
responses possible. The moral of which
might be that, so far as the female of
the species is concerned, the good work
will go on, or if it doesn’t it won’t be
their fault.
* * * *
Of course, a cynical view could be that
the only sort of motherhood that could
thus capture the sympathy of a feminine
audience in this Stopesian era would be
this delegated variety, or Have ’Em by
Proxy. It was doubly that in this case,
since, for a start, it was film motherhood,
and at that was vicarious, because Ginger
Rogers wasn’t the mother of the bundle
Despair from studying birthrate statistics.
at all; she found it on a doorstep. Still,
the impression was that the sympathetic
response was maternal instinct evoked by
the unwanted bundle of humanity, and
the shrieking and rocking and leaping
seemed as much a result of sentimental
delight over the fact that the atom was
being more than well looked after as a
result of the humor in the dialogue.
* * * *
As to the nature of that dialogue, there
was one bit about taking a spoonful, put-
ting it on a piece of lint and rubbing it
into his navel which had the effect of
tying every feminine member of the audi-
ence in a double reef-knot, in which
attitude many of ’em were still able to
leap high towards the ceiling. To the
common male that sort of humor might
seem to require an interpreter, but most
of the dialogue was much less obscure.
* * * *
“Bachelor Mother”
Cause of the foregoing reporting and
biologically unqualified, and maybe there-
fore inept, guesswork, this film fell
into Sydney Plaza last week out of an
otherwise blank sky. At most addresses
the offerings are poor—so much so, some
of them, that it would seem either that
Sydney audiences have become surpris-
ingly tolerant of poorish stuff to be put-
ting up with them so long, or else the
film houses are suffering from restriction
of supplies.
Despite the poorness of offerings gener-
ally, this was the only new screening.
There were two more instances of old
goods being rescued from the moths for
another run —a Formby at the Capitol
and a Gracie Fields at the Lyceum.
Still, even in times of plenty “Bachelor
Mother” could be reckoned a good
comedy neatly constructed, nicely
played, and a masterpiece of the art of
making something good out of practi-
cally nothing. The general line of its
comedy complications is that Ginger
picks up the baby on a doorstep, and
then circumstances conspire to make
Renovating the damage.
that seem more and more a story for the
marines. Action is fast, on a rising note
of sentiment and hilarity, what time
Ginger convinces nobody, which makes
no difference to the Ginger-smitten boss’s
son, or to the boss, who is as pleased
as h e ’s astounded to find himself a grand-
father, and is prepared to believe any-
thing except the biological fact of the
ma tter, which is that he isn’t,
*** . * ,
Despite the presence of Ginger, there’s
only one outburst of dancing, but it’s a
weird and wonderful outbreak. Of the
jitterbug variety, it’s of a sort calling
for even more effort and physical con-
dition than the Big Apple coons lately
displayed in their acrobatics at the Royal,
Like their effort, it looks to be right out
of the heart of Darkest Harlem. Ginger
makes nearly as good a fist of it as she
does of the ballroom variety, but in case
it’s going to spread to the dance floors
addicts would do well to start getting ino
nick right away.
* * * *
A sleuth s entitled “The Saint in
, „ . e „„
London” ts well enough done for sup-
P°rt purposes to. make the Plaza bill
agreeable entertainment all the way
through. The Saint himself is the most
wooden crook-turned-sleuth ever wit-
nessed, but the rest of the players are a
,solid lot of scoundrels.
* *. * *
Some improvement on the film front
is advertised for this week, with a new
Irene Dunne opus, “Invitation to Happi-
ness,” going on to-day (Wednesday) at
the Prince Edward, and on Friday “Four
Feathers,” a technicolor version of
A. E. W. Mason’s novel, advertised for
the Regent. At this last address “Juarez”
Cause of this extraordinary display.
has had a notably short run for these thin
times. Maybe Australian audiences will
patronise Hollywood films no matter
what stand Uncle Sam takes in the war,
and no matter what sort of remarks fall
from his Lindbergh and others ; but it’s
asking a bit too much to expect Austra-
lians just now to listen with patience to
the “Juarez” brand of moral lecturing
on the glories of Uncle’s version of de-
mocracy as against the British or any
other brand.
* * * *
Incidentally, it has been given out in
the British press that the Hollywood
maker of that spiffing bit of inciting
propaganda film “Confessions of a Nazi
Spy” has decided to abdicate the propa-
ganda field and confine his efforts to leg
shows, stupendous spectacles and other
varieties of Hollywooden culture. Mean-
while, “Confessions of a Nazi Spy” is
still producing howls and catcalls round
Australia’s suburban and country picture
houses, as if what it deals with had
special Australian interest and signifi-
cance, instead of being a purely Ameri-
can affair, just as the box-office receipts
for it are very largely' an American
affair. No doubt now we shall see
the “March of Time” people turning
their attention to duck farms and such-
like innocuous enterprises, having done
their bit for years past inciting hatred
of other countries, and cashing in heavily
on the business.
* * * *
At the Regent is a “March of Time”
item dealing with a subject of which its
makers should know a bit more than
their one-eyed outlook allowed them to
learn about international affairs —the
motion picture industry, which Yanks
revere to such an extent that they have
devoted a complete museum and library
to recording its history from infancy. In
the public screening hall may be viewed
the art of the great Valentino, the designs
and subterfuges of the vamp and siren,
the inspiring spectacle of a couple of cow-
punchers annihilating several thousand
Injuns, and other experiences sufficient
to convince any film-addict that he’s in
luck to be getting even what filmsmiths
offer him to-day. The antics of one
comedian, however, still provide a guffaw
surpassing any that now lift the roofs —-
in the ancient and honorable art of pie-
throwing Professor Charles Chaplin re-
mains unchallenged. The only thing
wrong with an extract from an old film,
which shows the inimitable Charles pur-
loining his pie, dusting it with the air
of a connoisseur and then implanting it
with exhilarating gusto and fine intensity
of purpose on the victim’s phiz, was that
the victim wasn’t Mr. Valentino.
Stage and Concerts.
Melbourne Little Theatre made an
excellent job of J. B. Priestley’s “People
at Sea.” The boatload of assorted
Priestley characters whose relationships
are upset when the S.S. Zillah, 10,000
tons, comes to disaster wh(le carrying
passengers and cargo to America are
portrayed with considerable dramatic
effect and all the suave Priestley touch,
which here probes a trifle more deeply.
One half of the ship’s complement is
tyrannised over by having too much,
and the other half is tyrannised over by
thinking it has too little. No solution is
provided, unless a matrimonial fixture is
so intended.
Peter Randall was a convincing fourth
officer, and Loveday Hills was admirable
as personal maid to an English actress,
Jeanne Nash.
* * * *
Rosemarie Kenny, the young Mel-
bourne pianist who was prevented by the
outbreak of war from obeying Schnabel's
advice to go to Europe, gave a recital
last week at the Assembly Hall. She
showed an unusual degree of feeling in
her Schubert panel, and played Chopin
like a virtuoso. She had enough control
to get through the “Appassionata” with
credit, and her playing of the “Carnaval”
of Schumann delighted her audience.
* * * *
Orchestral conductor Malcolm Sar-
gent, as part of the A.B.C.’s policy to
take lofty music to the workers, is doing
the Sydney smalls —Auburn last week,
Newtown this week. He gives excellent
concerts —rather better, from the stand-
point of vigor and confidence, than those
in Sydney Town Hall —and the applause
is terrific. But these suburban halls are
utterly unsuited for broadcasting—a lot
worse than Sydney Town Hall, though
that may seem incredible to some listeners
—and the broadcasts are not worth listen-
ing to.
* * * *
Audiences having demanded further
elucidation of the mystery of the much-
murdered count, the piece was given an
extra week’s run at the Minerva, King’s
Cross, and has its last performance to-
night (Wednesday). “Libel,” which was
to come next, has been dropped, and to-
morrow night “Dinner at Eight” will be
served for a fortnight, with other short-
run pieces to follow. If acting continues
as good as Clifford Cowley’s comedy,
Harvey Adams’s bulldog histrionics and
lan Keith’s quiet effectiveness in the first
show it’ll be no fault of the co. if the
season isn’t a success.
Artbursts.
Ernest Buckmaster, of Melbourne, who
has a show of oils at David Jones’s new
Market-street store, Sydney, is commonly
condemned by the aesthetic because he
uses formulae and paints slickly. But he
manages to convey to other eyes the
beauties (he doesn’t deal in uglinesses)
which set his brush in motion, and if it
be a crime to cultivate a style of one’s
own and to demonstrate competence and
certainty within that style’s limits, then
he sins in very august company.
Latterly Buckmaster has been attracted
by effects of sunshine and shadow caused
by a partially clouded sky on a broad
terrain, and makes effective pictures of
it in “Winter Landscape, Trawool,” and
“Sunlit Morning, Olinda.” “Evening
Calm After Rain” realises the ineffable
blue that clothes Vic. valleys after sunset.
There are dozens of flower-pieces, all
very pleasant, a couple of good portraits,
“The Artist’s Mother” and “An Old-
timer,” and “A Farm Group” of the type
Heysen paints by the hundred.
Not great art by any means, but pref-
erable to any quantity of muddled and
rudderless attempts to express the un-
utterably utter.
* * * *
Enid Cambridge, whose oils and water-
colors deck the walls of the Macquarie
Galleries, will never be accused of paint-
ing slickly, though she uses formula—-in
oils a portrayal of all subjects in terms of
Turkish towelling and in water-colors a
five-seconds sketch technique in which
outline and color are breathlessly indi-
cated by fragmentary tokens. A convic-
tion that the basic colors in all landscape
are pink and green gives Miss Cam-
bridge’s pictures a sort of individuality.
They seem to be selling very well.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
*l|tj
V
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone. 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Outstanding feature of Mayoress
Nock’s welcome-home party to Lady
Wakehurst was the flower decorations.
Guests walked down an avenue of grow-
ing and often flowering plants to the re-
ception-rooms. At the top of the marble
stairway a grassy lawn set with sundial,
a bird bath and beds of pansies greeted
the eye. This was enclosed by a rustic
trellis about which greeny shoots trailed.
There was an archway, all green grace-
fulness, leading to the great handshake.
Tubs of pink and white azaleas guarded
the doors. The pale gold of snapdragon
and boxes of begonias and maidenhair
fern were in every niche. The balconies
were hung with the Union Jack and Aus-
tralia’s flag, and the afternoon sun shone
through them, making their colors brave.
Lady Wakehurst flashed her quick,
radiant smile above a daffodil silk frock
coin-spotted in white. Her Breton sailor
hat was pale gold touched with brown.
The Nock lady’s frock suggested Mexico
as its place of birth. It was patterned in
many colors, and was jocund in orange
petunia, purple and blue. Her hat was a
black Breton, her tailored coat in oat-
meal tones. Miss Kate Egan’s silver-fox
coat was among the admired. Mrs.
Harold Bott’s black hat had a brim that
really shaded her face, and springlike was
her clover-pink frock. Hugh Denison’s
wife was handsome as usual in navy and
silver fox.
The wife of Major-General Hardie and
Admiral Custance’s lady were seen. Mrs.
Ken Prior paid her respects in navy.
Thelma Houston in dove grey with a
flash-of coral pink was one of the good-
looking. Mrs. Keith Morris, just back
from England and America, wore orchids
in her black suit. With her was Mrs.
Graham Drew. The wife of Chief Jus-
tice Jordan was in black and white. Mrs.
H. C. Phillips, Mrs. Bertie Kelly, whose
large white felt hat was one of the ad-
mired, and Mrs. C. L. Jones, white
bag, shoes, gloves and veil with a grey
suit, were among the many.
The Women Writers’ bridge party for
their Friendly Fund was one of the week’s
successes. In spite of war, ’flu, measles
and the Mayoress’s reception it drew a
great crowd to David Jones’s in George-
street. The party had been decided on
before Mr. Chamberlain declared we
were in a state of war, and the committee
decided, like good Australians, to do as
the Prime Minister suggested, and carry
on. But a fortnight before the date out
came cards for the Town Hall do. “Ah,”
said one of the organisers gloomily, “a
war I could cope with, but the
Mayoress’s reception is devastating.”
However, over £2O clear was handed
to the Friendly Fund, and the Women
Writers were so pleased that they imme-
diately voted a guinea of it to the Polish
Relief Fund;
Violet Roche, who goes off to Maori-
land for three months, was farewelled by
the Women Writers last Wednesday.
Lunch at the Carlton was the way of it,
and the guest of honor was dignified in
a black French model and a wide black
hat. President Dame Mary Gilmore was
prevented by the chilly wind and a bad
cold from being present, so Isabel Gullett
presided. Mrs. Aronson was one of the
speechmakers, Violet’s great friend Dora
Payter, who runs “Burns Philp’s Maga-
zine,” another. Violet told of celebrities
she had interviewed, and finally went off,
her arms filled with flowers and flat
parcels that looked like books and sweets.
To Nora Kelly was given the task of
handing over the cheque from the card
party to the society’s treasurer, Miss
Mowle.
Arline Waddy, popular secretary of
the Overseas Club in Sydney for several
years, got herself tangled up with matri-
mony not long ago in London, which
city has been her home for the past two
years. Her name is now Mrs. Jack, and
she lives in Finchley-road, near St.
John’s Wood.
One of the prettiest sights the tall trees
in Greenoaks-avenue have seen was
Belinda Mackay (till a short time before
Belinda Street) walking with her ’groom
and followed by her ’maids and their
squires in last Wednesday afternoon’s
sunshine. The distance between St.
Mark’s at Darling Point, where the vows
were blessed, and the home of the Justice
Streets (the bride’s parents) is so short
that the bridal procession and all the
guests, 350 of them, made the journey on
foot. Snow-white was the bride’s frock,
and her veil and train of Honiton lace
had been treasures of ancestor Caroline
Lawson, daughter of the explorer.
Philippa Street (bride’s sister) and
Sheila Mackay, sister to ’groom Donald
Mackay, Beatrice Gordon and Helen
Street brought a flutter of pink, yellow,
blue and green Swiss muslin and
coronets of flowers to the scene. Lady
Gowrie and Lady Wakehurst were wed-
ding guests ; so were all Sydney’s best-
knowns. Burgundy lace and pink orchids
were worn by Mrs. Street at the reception.
Turquoise blue was Mrs. W. A.
Mackay’s color scheme. Ernest Poolman
and Miss Edith Poolman, brother and
sister respectively to Mrs. Donald
Mackay’s grandmother, Philip Street’s
widow, had come from Melbourne for
the celebrations.
The flower carpet shown last week in
the Town Hall was even larger than that
shown in 1938. It was a triumph of
patience and artistry. Its weavers had
started at eight o’clock on Tuesday morn-
ing, and were finishing their task at two
o’clock the following a.m. The carpet
was 44ft. by 33ft., and its lesson was one
of unity of Empire; for in it were closely
knit the rose, the thistle and the sham-
rock. The Golden Fleece Kindergarten
and the Mayor’s Patriotic Fund are
this year’s beneficiaries.
Not a small part of the attraction to
grown-ups was the sight of the babes
from the kindergarten absorbed in their
play, gathered about their teacher or
looking at their picture books. Some
very tired ones were asleep amid all the
comings and goings of hundreds.
Stretched on their little beds they slum-
bered while vice-regal ladies admired
and pretty girls in gaily-colored print
frocks sprayed the flower carpet. Lady
Gowrie was touched on the opening day
by the procession of 12 children each
carrying a rose to her. The roses were
placed in a basket handed to her by the
first child.
Mrs. Allen Innes, just back from the
U.S., is full of information as to how to
travel through that great country. To
begin with Mrs. Innes spent three months
on Greyhound bus tours. In them she
travelled 8000 miles for £l7. This was
a World’s Fair excursion, and took her
from Treasure Island World’s Fair to
the New York World’s Fair, a trip that
included three days’ camping in Yose-
mite. Of Las Vegas, Mrs. Innes says it
out-Renoes Reno. Everywhere are
divorcees and spots where a bit of
gambling can be done. The shops are
open all night and brilliantly lit up. In
New York Mrs. Innes was introduced
to the Women’s Club, at which there
were 1000 women in residence. Here the
Australian found such efficiency and
courtesy that she felt as though she were
the only guest in a private home.
Mrs. Hubbell’s school of ballet was a
never-failing joy during the traveller’s
stay in New York. Here she watched
daily the great Serova training the
World’s Fair ballet. A reception to Mrs.
Irene Castle, of dancing fame, was staged
here by Mrs. Hubbell, her old teacher.
There must be real money in teaching
dancing in U.S.A., for the bouquet of
orchids handed to Irene was magnificent.
Mrs. Liddell, Sydney journalist now in
America, and brother William Bullock,
well known as a novelist and dramatic
critic, forgathered with Mrs. Innes, and,
of course, Australianwise, they went on
picnics. Bear Lake and Jones’s Beach
were two spots where they unpacked the
hamper. Mrs. Margaret Vandercook,
whose son had written up a good deal
about Mrs. William Jefferson’s (she is a
sister of Mrs. Innes) life in Papua, in-
troduced the Australian to the city’s
women writers. Later came invitations
to the Pen and Brush Club. Everybody
was interested in Australia and New
Guinea. But, alas! try as she might, the
traveller could find none of our literature
to spread the glad tidings of our land.
Even in the Australian pavilions of the
World’s Fair, Mrs. Innes tells, she could
buy no Australian books or souvenirs. Of
course, she visited the scene of Margaret
Mitchell’s Gone with the Wind. On one
of the battlegrounds is now the summer
camp of a medico. Old Southern home-
stead, old Southern furniture, even the
Southern “Mammy” to bring in the mint
juleps, made the visitor feel she was - in-
deed in old Georgia. Alabama, the Mis-
sissippi, Texas, El Paso, Juarez, Arizona,
Nevada, Los Angeles and Hollywood
were all in the itinerary. The Athletic
Club in Hollywood is an immense and
beautiful place with a swimming pool
that is more like a vast lake, completely
surrounded with mosaics. Falk photo-
graph.
This is Heather Gray, who will give
a recital in the Forum Club on Wednes-
day, October 25. Heather is a soprano
from the studio of Katherine Beverley.
She will be assisted by tenor George
McNeilly and ’cellist Athos Martelli.
The accompanist will be Constance
Adamson. In her not-so-distant school-
days Heather was a prefect at Neutral
Bay Girls’ High.
Just before Edgar Dart went into camp
he married Peggy Ives, a charming Chats-
wood girl. The bride’s frock and hat were
of deep cream. On the back of the hat was
a huge stiff bow of net that floated into
long ends. Her posy was of hyacinths
and orchids. Sister Joan ’maided in green
organdie and a large green straw hat.
This wedding was a great get-together of
old Abbotsleigh girls, since that had been
Peggy’s school. The reception was at
the Cooper home in Gordon. Among
the guests was Allison Yabsley, an old
Abbotsleigh girl and a friend of the bride.
Allison is the plucky girl who keeps on
smiling in spite of a serious accident at
Singapore some time ago in which her
spine was injured. Loving hands carried
her into the church and into the reception.
Who deserves more kinldness and
generosity from the public than the hos-
pital nurse? Many of these nurses,
members of the Australian Trained
Nurses’ Association, have been unable,
throughout their working years, to pro-
vide for their future. Now the associa-
tion purposes to establish A.T.N.A.
House, which will be a home for the
not-too-affluent member no longer fit
for the. strain of the profession. A
money-raiser for the cause will be a
dinner dance at seven on Saturday,
October 21, at Elizabeth Bay House.
Organisers are E. P. Evans and B.
Milgate.
Every writing group in Sydney was
represented at the farewell party given to
Violet Roche by friend Dora Payter. This
was in the Forum Club, and early arrivals
had the joy of seeing through the many
windows the blue haze of twilight give
way to night, her dark mantle sequinned
with electrics. From these windows can
be seen the stretch of Hyde Park, the
noble outline of St. Mary’s and the lovely
old spire of St. James’s. If you had called
to mind the W.C.T.U. warning you could
have orange or grapefruit drinks. Other-
wise you lifted a glass of sherry to the
“happy-voyage-swift-return” toast. The
guest wore a long, black afternoon frock
and a wide, straight-brimmed black hat.
Hostess Dora Payter’s outfit, too, was
black. But her turban was provocative
with its flyaway bow. There were many
artists and musicians, one of these R Y
Agnew, who has just finished a new
sonata.
The Thirty-eight Theatre is rehearsing
a reading of Harry Tighe s Op
Spaces.” Harry has written many novels
and has had his plays produced in Lon-
don. “Open Spaces” had a London
presentation with Nancy Price in the cast.
The Lyceum Club, on Thursday,
November 9, is set apart for the reading.
Phillip Park was quite a meeting place
on Saturday when the young frequenters
of the Children’s Library held their
before-Christmas fair. The invitations,
bearing a spray of deep-blue flowers,
brought neighborhood mothers and
fathers on foot, and friends from the best
suburbs in expensive-looking cars. Over-
taxed and super-taxed alike paid tneir six-
pences at the gate.
The stalls, gay with the work of the
girls and boys, showed that the library
teaches them to use their hands as well
as their eyes. Here were baskets and
trays and graceful bits of pottery. Here,
poker-worked on wood, were reminders
to the milkman and his brethren of house-
hold requirements. A lady in a poke-
bonnet and a rose-red crinoline coyly
requested you to return the scissors to
the hook of the wooden panel she deco-
rated. Sprays of artificial peach bloom
burgeoned in the large urn on the lawn.
There were cakes and sweets and flowers.
Dolly Hollander Moore, a golden rose
in the lapel of her dark suit, was a sibyl
for the afternoon. For a shilling she’d
paint a future more glowing than a sunset
back o’ Bourke.
Mayoress Nock opened the fair, and
small girls, bright as a bed of tulips in
their cotton frocks, tripped blithely for-
ward, each handing her a flower till her
posy was formed. Alderman Marks made
a speech, and Miss Hilda Marks was
among the many listeners. National Gal-
lery’s Will Ashtons were there; so was
Harry Tighe with a group of friends.
Jeanie Ranken bought from each stall
with impartiality ; so did Mrs. Ben Edye
and sister Mrs. Lee. Schoolgirl Benoni
Edye’s lacquer-red poke bonnet was a
bright spot in the afternoon. The library’s
founder, Mrs. Matheson, smiled above
blue frocking.
The College of St. Aloysius at Kirri-
billi opened its doors 50 years ago. All
this year an active committee has been
preparing for the golden jubilee fete
which will celebrate the anniversary. This
is dated for December 2, and will be in
the college grounds. Mrs. Kenny has
contributed a really lovely prize—a
Doulton teaset in a gold lace pattern (tea
drunk from it will taste better than cham-
pagne). If you’re the Pacific Islander
you should be, you love a pretty basket.
At this fete there will be some basket-
ware from the Marshall Islands. Mrs.
Flipo brought it specially for the occa-
sion.
Favorite sacrament last week was that
of matrimony. Sheila Pring (elder
daughter of the Philip Prings, of Edge-
cliff) was one of the brides who sought
the benefit of clergy within St. Mark’s
at Darling Point. There she and Geof-
frey Plater were made one by Arch-
deacon Langley. Geoffrey is the elder
son of the Captain Plater couple, of
Darling Point. Reception was at the
Royal Sydney Yacht Club.
Lady Gowrie went to Camden, and
with.hundreds of other garden-lovers en-
joyed the bright serenity of the garden
ways of Camden Park, the Macarthur
Onslow home. This outing will benefit
the Red Cross and the Bush Book Club.
Pretty Mrs. Ellis Fielding Jones brought
her small Annette and Dinah with her,
and there was many an Onslow, Knox,
Allen and Adams on the scene.
Saturday seemed a field day for fetes.
They raged from the University to Cam-
den Park. At the University the work
done by the children and mothers of the
Settlement Club made a fine display, and
Chancellor Halse Rogers’s lady handed
out the prizes. In the gardens of Elaine,
the Hubert Fairfax home at Double Bay,
Lady Wakehurst opened a festa in aid
of St. Luke’s Hospital. Shiningly clean
looked the guard of honor —all nurses of
St. Luke’s, in pale-blue print uniform
and white headdress. Mrs. J. L. Ruth-
ven and St. Luke’s Matron Aston were
notables at the fair.
Jessica Chard, one of Bellevue Hill’s
pretty girls, has been ill for over a week.
She scratched her . forehead with a
pin, and then spent all the first Rose
Day in the city helping the cause. Into
the scratch scurried a germ, and the
family doctor was busy all last week deal-
ing it stoush. Jessica’s forehead is now,
fortunately, as satin smooth as ever, but
bed is still indicated.
Louise Gargurevich, now in Sydney, is
of Yugoslavian-French extraction, and
was born in Melbourne. She made her
London debut as a pianist in 1932.


ẃ
Personal and Missing Friends.
ELLIOTT, Norman.—lnformation of his where-
abouts is required re the estate of Annie J.
Elliott, deceased. Any person having know-
ledge please communicate with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE, Sydney.
CHARLES WILLIAM DEVLIN, a son of
Mary Ellen Bowden, deceased, or any person
knowing his past or present whereabouts, please
communicate with the BALLARAT TRUSTEES
COMPANY, Geelong, Victoria.
£lO REWARD
• >'
Hi
will be paid to any
person giving infor-
mation as to the
present whereabouts
of Stanley W. Daniel,
of Bnngendore, missing
since 20tli September
last, and may be
suffering from loss of
memory. A g e 31,
height sft. lOin., slight
build, fair complexion,
fair hair, high fore-
head. little finger bent
at first joint. 8 Clan-
alpine Street, Eastwood.
’Phone: ltyde SGS.
Melbourne
Chatter
There was a lull on the social front
last week. Until Guineas Day dates for
everybody were practically all of the
genus good works. There was even a
falling off in marriages, and padres had
a respite from excited young couples
calling upon them at all hours of the
day or night. These ecclesiastical gentle-
men managed to catch up on several days
with their arrears of reading the classics
or digging the garden.
The feminine element in the crowd at
the Caulfield Guineas did its best to
brighten the grey-day landscape with
color. There was purple with blue and
blue with purple, violet accessories worn
with black, and here and there a little
hat made from flowers and a leaf or two.
A few uncoated light silk frocks came
out for a do-or-die afternoon, their
wearers holding their chins up gamely
even when the rain came down after the
fifth race. Off-white woollen coats were
trump cards. Suggestive of a new season,
they looked right enough on a dull day
even in a misty shower. There may be
bad misfits in a gale and storm, but so is
everything else except oilskins and last
year’s golf hat.
Mrs. Fred Dennett wore her cream
coat over black, Sheila Living hers over
yellow ; Mrs. Herbert Benton’s oatmeal
coat went over a black dress. In the
first line for all the berry-juice colors was
Mrs. Bob Gove. Her purple-blue woollen
frock had a neck fichu of deep mulberry,
while blue and purple feathers kept tryst
in her little hat. Mary Baillieu wore a
suit (its three-quarter coat had a swing-
pleated back) of “black muscatel” with
all accessories, including shoes and make-
up, matching perfectly. Mrs. Jim Clymer
was among those faithful to silver foxes.
Mrs. Maurice Sloman chose color uplift
to the tune of corn-yellow for flecked
coat and little hat, simple but for its
frivolous bow of stiffened ribbon. Navy
blue was a success as chosen by Lorraine
Cumming for her lightweight frock with
its pocket pipings of pale grey, and by
Mrs. Alec Anderson for her suit which
accompanied a Pied Piper hat, a moun-
tain peak of white straw, its brim of navy
ribbon.
The R.A.A.F. Locker Fund is collect-
ing anything to put in a serviceman’s
locker —or whatever in emergency takes
the place of his locker if he’s living under
canvas or in the cockpit of his ’plane or
just in his flying suit with its roomy
pockets. Square airtight tins are the best
medium for packing goods such as cigar-
ettes, tobacco, cakes, puddings, biscuits,
boiled sweets, etc. Marchants, 156
Collins-street, have offered temporary-
space as a depot for wool and parcels
until the Locker Fund finds rooms in the
city.
Mrs. S. J. Goble, the president, is ex-
perienced in war work. She was a V.A.D.
for three years, and there is little she
doesn’t know about scrubbing and
polishing large wards, about long hours
and night duty to assist the nurses. She
and her husband, the R.A.A.F.’s Air
Vice-Marshal of to-day, were married a
few years after the war from the Lon-
don flat of the Eric Harrisons. To-
day he’s Group-Captain Harrison. For
the first three years of the last war he
was a young pilot commandeered by the
Government (much against his will —he
wanted to be in the scrap) to teach the'
infant R.A.A.F. to fly at Point Cook.
His wife’s war work was to rise every
morning at 4.30 a.m., get into tweeds
and gumboots and boil up kerosene-tins
of coffee in the lee of a lentfly for the
hungry staff and trainees.
The Locker Fund had its first function
last week with a bridge party at Buck-
ley’s. Augmenting the funds were
flowers brought up from Laverton by
Mrs. “King” Cole. She must have begged
every bloom on the station, and every
one was sold. Mrs. S. C. Arnold won a
bunch of lily-of-the-valley, donated by
Mrs. Gill, large enough for her to give
all her friends a spray. Mrs. Dal Charl-
ton, wearing burgundy and a pigeon-grey
hat, won a Christmassy box of choco-
lates.
The National Theatre Movement is
game for anything, as, for instance, for
“The Marriage of Figaro” for a three
nights’ season. As an amateur production
the show has merit —Frank Lasslett, who
played Count Almaviva, is gifted with
every stage attribute —but the first night
was wet and cold, and for some reason
the Princess Theatre’s heating system,
always inadequate, had not been turned
on. In the cast were several very good
voices, but some of the songs seemed to
go on for ever, and there were four acts.
The little minuet at the end of Act 111 was
a let-up, something to look at instead of
to listen to. Mrs. Harry Emmerton was
escorted to her box by George Paxton.
Included in her party were Mrs. Paxton
and Mrs. A. Law.
In Spencer Shier’s portrait is Valerie
Crowther, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G.
O’Dell Crowther, who is one of the
ticket secretaries for the Carrv-On Club
Ball which will take place in St. Kilda
Town Hall on November 1. Valerie is
also very interested in the Society for
Crippled Children (of which her father
is hon. treas.); is one of its voluntary
handcraft helpers, and since last March
(when Cynthia Wettenhall resigned to
travel abroad) has acted as hon. sec. to
the society’s handcraft and welfare com-
mittee.
Members of the Carry-On Club are
servicemen who have made themselves
responsible as far as possible for assist-
ing out-of-luck returned soldiers and
their dependants, particularly those who
for various technical reasons are not
“accepted” as cases by the Repatriation
authorities. Members are all honorary
workers for the club. Their contribu-
tions, plus subscriptions of associates
and others interested, are the principal
means of carrying on the club’s good
works.
Friends of Squadron-Leader Paddy
Heffernan snatched a few hours of re-
laxation out of uniform and away from
militant duties. The occasion was an im-
portant one. The popular Paddy, well
known for his cheery grin, the funny way
his hair grows and the angle of his elbow
when he drinks milk or anything else out
of a silver mug, got himself safely mar-
ried to Georgie Saunders, of Auckland.
The bride and her ’maid, sister Frankie,
stepped down the gangway from their
voyage across the Tasman on the morn-
ing of the wedding to find all prepara-
tions had been carried out, even to the
wedding cake, palest blue to match the
bridal gown and decorated on its topmost
layer with tiny aeroplanes. There was
also a cyclamen posy with the dew still
wet upon it, ready to be pinned to the
bride’s dove-grey bag that matched her
other accessories.
Wing-Commander and Mrs. F. Scherger
tied streamers in Air Force colors over
the doorway of their home in East Cam-
berwell, which they lent for the felicita-
tions which followed on the ceremony in
the Camberwell Methodist Church. The
’groom’s parents, the George Heffernans,
also his sister, Mrs. Harry Luke, and her
husband, came over from Sydney to say
“God bless you” and share in their fun.
Flight-Lieut. Alistair Murdoch was best
man. After a short honeymoon—Paddy
had accumulated so much leave that he
was able to have some of it —the newly-
married pair will live in a flat in
Queen’s-road.
Few charitable associations have a
sounder balance sheet than the Society
for Crippled Children. The annual re-
port shows a solid sum in the bank, and
also gives a satisfactory picture of the
practical work done. Lady Dugan is
patron, and came to the annual general
meeting. She spoke in spite of a sore
throat through a cold and too much use
in the cause of other charities. Her
address was friendly and tactful and
caused president Brigadier F. P. Derham
to remark that it takes a woman to put
the personal touch across.
An interesting item on the expenses
side of the balance sheet is £lOO donation
from the society to the Board of Social
Studies, to assist the supply of trained
workers and almoners. It has been found
through experience that trained special-
ists have a great advantage over well-
meaning but untrained amateurs. Other
donations included £3OO to the Craft
Hostel at Frankston, and £690 to
Yooralla Hospital School. Costs of the
society’s last collection campaign were
only 4 p.c., much lower than is usual in
such cases.
At the meeting it was mentioned how
much employers have helped the society.
Jobs for young cripples are now much
easier to find than they were. Tributes
were paid to many people, particularly
to occupational therapists Sylvia Docker
and Merle Christie (who regularly work
overtime teaching craftwork and re-
educating disabled limbs and muscles in
the process), to almoner Marion Urquhart
and to the voluntary helpers who assist
with transport, teaching, etc. Isobel
Hodge, who is chief almoner at the
Children’s Hospital, spoke of her recent
experiences in England at the conference
of workers for cripples. Between 30 and
40 countries were represented, and two
translations were made of every paper,
the interpreter being an elderly, grey-
headed woman who included jokes and
colloquialisms in her change from one
language to another.
Mrs, Norman Spry, pictured here by
Athol Shmith, can not only wear the sort
of hat that’s the prerogative of a beau-
teous movie star, but can put over sales
talk in the cause of charity. She is on
the committee for the Red Cross gala
entertainment to be held at the Princess
on October 25, received a large batch
of tickets one morning to sell, and an
hour later was telephoning for more.
The dress-circle for the gala show is
booked out, and it is unlikely that the
few seats left in the stalls and “gods”
will be unoccupied on the big night. The
Norman Sprys live in Alma-road, Caul-
field, and they have one son, Trevor, aged
two.
A demand for “real spinach” (as dis-
tinct from just spinach ), a pilfering of
husbands’ shaving soap (for the cleansing
of feminine complexions), a revived in-
terest in exercises in the morning and
some strong-minded self-control over diet
were among seeds sown last week in the
boardroom of the After-care Hospital.
The cause of the health advice was a
talk-cwra-demonstration by Mrs. C. V.
Mackay on beauty for the not-so-young.
Mrs. Mackay is no longer “in the trade,”
and advertised no particular skin foods.
Before her marriage she was a beauty
specialist, and last week’s instance was
the only occasion when she has been back
on the job since she has lived in Aus-
tralia.
She demonstrated the movements of
facial massage with face cream, and advo-
cated a finish-up on a clean skin with a
rough towel. She thinks dry skins should
keep away from water except once a
week, when the shaving soap is useful.
She favors eye-shadow in various shades
for the occasion “to make your eyes
match your frock.” Nora Gurdoji, who
is a perfect specimen of Nordic beauty,
plus plaits twisted around her head, got
into a snappy one-piece black suit to
demonstrate Mrs. Mackay’s exercises
Nora’s in her second year of physical
education at the university.
After the lecture there came tea on
ihe verandah and the first test on new
resolutions with the temptation of cream-
cakes and make-up compacts (as to the
latter, one layer of complexion should
be removed before another is applied).
Mrs. M. M. Neylon organised the after-
noon in its early stages, but she was un-
able to be present, and Mrs. Mortimer
Robb carried on for her.
There has come cable news to the effect
that Pat Wheatley was married last week
in London. Pat, the only daughter of
the manager of the A.M.P. and Mrs.
Vincent Wheatley, went away with her
mother on her first trip abroad early in
the year. On their way the travellers
broke their journey in Perth for a fast
round of entertaining (they both have
many friends in W.A.). Pat, who is tall,
fair and charming, met her bridegroom,
Lieut. Eric Murray Prain, in Scotland.
He will surely speak with a burr, wear
kilts and shoot grouse, for he is the third
son of James Prain, Kincaple, St.
Andrews, Fife.
A popular appointment is that of
Lieut.-Col S. F. Rowell, of the Aus-
tralian Staff Corps, who becomes No. 1
General Staff Officer of the Second
A.I.F. Both Lieut.-Col. and Mrs.
Rowell are South Australians, but dur-
ing recent years they have seen very
little of their own State. They have been
stationed in Melbourne and in Perth, and
were abroad twice as a result of Lieut.-
Col. Rowell’s appointment for special
technical training to the Staff College at
Camberley (after which he was chosen
for exchange .duty) and to the Imperial
Defence College. Mrs. Rowell was a
nurse before her marriage. She is now
working for the Red Cross and the Com-
forts Funds. Daughter Rossline is aged
ten.
“Pawang”: The late Dr. Freud, him-
self capable of an extraordinary degree
of concentration, praised this capacity in
William James. When Freud was in his
thirties he visited James, and they went
for a walk. In the course of discussing
some philosophic problem, James
stopped, asked his companion to walk
on and said he would rejoin him in a few
minutes. When James caught up with
Freud he explained that he had had an
attack of angina pectoris, and he wanted
to spare his guest the painful spectacle.
Then he resumed the discussion. Melba
had the same characteristic. During the
second-last opera season in which she
appeared in Melbourne, she fainted after
a rehearsal. She had crushed three of
her fingers in the door of her motor-car
on arrival at the theatre. She had made
no complaint, but just clenched her fist
and went through with her singing, and
her singing was as good as usual.
sf * * *
“F.S.”: A story not published by
Melbourne “Herald” concerning one of
the exhibitors in its modern collection in
Melbourne concerns an artist who,
according to the “Herald’s” par. writer,
achieved enormous success in Paris as a
portrait-painter. There were all sorts of
ways he did it. He would give parties in
his studio to which the elite of Paris
was invited and walk in in a suit of
rags. Once a millionairess who moved
in the most fashionable circles sat to him
for her portrait, and society went to the
salon looking for the opus, but could not
locate it. Presently a crowd was clustered
about a nude, and it was whispered
around that the artist had painted the
head of the millionairess and attached the
naked figure of a model to it. It’s that
sort of thing that makes modern art so
frightfully interesting.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George's Hse., St. George’s Tce. f Fertli
m
i
THE
No. 150
DEEP
SEATED
KEMP
STYLE
saddle
£B/5/.
(Complete)
It has Kemp pads
deep seat, good long
kip flaps and short
panel with leather
points. Hogskin seat.
N.S.W. rail freight on Saddles paid for
cash with order.
Write for Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER *. STEVEMSOH E 7?:
395 CEORCE ST. SYDHEY
THE SERVICE MAN
The Soldier's Pay.
“The territorial rate of pay is 7s. a
dav for a nrivate nlu* 5s everv dav he
day tor a private, plus ss. every day fte
is in camp or school of instruction. The
colonel’s rate is 245. a day, plus ss. in
camp. We don’t know whether the
special-service force will leave these
shores ; nobody knows. In any case, a
private, if married and with two children,
will get £2 9s. a week for himself, £1 Is.
for his wife and £1 Is. for the children,
„i • _ . . , r c-a ii„ u
making a total of £4 11s. We have
reduced the margins between privates
and officers, but I think we were quite
justified.”
Who said that? Assuredly not Aus-
traHa's Mr. Menzies or Mr. Street. The
Menzies-Street rate for militiamen is
eight bob a day for the first month in
“ ’Ang on a mo. an' I'll let Bob Menzies know you're ’ere."
camp and —for single men —special-ser-
vice rates for the second, third and fourth
months. Special-service rates are five bob
a day, plus 2s. 6d. for a wife, plus nine-
pence for each child ; and, in the case of
overseas service, another Is. deferred.
No, the statement was made by Maori-
land Defence Minister Jones in the
House of Representatives on September
21. He wound up with the promise that
the Government “would do the right
thing by all, if the force goes overseas
and a man can’t pay his way.”
Maoriland asked for 6600 men for the
special-service force, without stipulating
that such and such a proportion should
be militiamen. It enrolled 6655 the first
day. The Australian experience has been
somewhat different.
Canteens, etc.
“A.I.F. rates” are good enough for our
incomprehensible Government when it
is intent on “economising” at the expense
of soldiers and their families, but in other
matters A.LF. experience and advice are
dismissed as valueless. Every represen-
tative Digger is in favor of wet canteens,
and they have them in the British Army ;
but dry canteens have been decided upon
in deference to the prohibitionist vote.
This with summer coming on! It means,
instead of regulated drinking under the
£ y es of non-coms, who will stand no
nonsense ’ hilarious boozing in night
dubs and pubs _p ossibly of the blood-
bouse variety
It means also increased liability to
a danger on which James Cornell,
M.L.C., has uttered wise words in Perth,
anc * against which, so far, no provision
has been made.
One thing we should insist upon is that
a!I tllose methods of prevention that weie in
use at the dissolution of the A.I.F. should
immediately be reintroduced. Before the
] ast war * the cry was “ Sa ve the civil popu-
lation from the soldier ! ” During the Great
War, the cry was “Save the soldier from the
civ jj* population.”
greatest calamities that followed demobilisa-
tion was that all the excellent work done
by medical men in the field of venereal-
disease prevention, not only in the A.1.F.,
but in the Allied forces, including America,
had simply gone by the board. He said it
was all wasted; it should have been carried
into civilian life.
Cornell spoke as a Digger and as a rep-
resentative of the Diggers’ League at
many conferences, not only in Australia
but abroad. He has been a member of
Parliament for many years, is Chairman
of Committees and is expected to be the
next President.
"Somewhere in France."
The Second B.E.F. landed in France
without a casualty. It is 38,000 men
stronger in its chrysalis stage than the
First —-numbering 158,000 men, the
nucleus of two army corps. In supreme
command, subject to Gamelin, joint
C.-in-C., is Gort, V.C., schooled by
1914-1918 experience and backed by
corps commanders John Dill who went
to the T 4 affair as a 23-year-old brigade
major, and Alan Brooke, an Irishman
bom on French soil.
The new army is stronger at every
point. Old Contemptibles must marvel
at the composition of their successors —
only 20 per cent, infantry; and the foot-
sloggers have, to the battalion, 50 Bren
guns and 22 < anti-tank rifles. There
are 25,000 vehicles, tanks up to 15
tons, camouflage, abundant commis-
sariat, an ample flying force, heavy
artillery and the Maginot Line. The
new force has plenty of time to settle
down under a unified command, and
when the fighting begins in earnest it
presumably will be upon a predetermined
plan of campaign framed to save wastage
of man-power and material.
Underneath all the organisation, how-
ever, it is the same old army at heart.
All promotions, save among the
specialists, will be made from the ranks,
in line with the precedent set by the
A.LF. in 1914-18.
Leaders of the Sixth Division.
A. S. Allen takes over the 16th
Brigade. Now 45, he first appeared in
war history at Messines ; with a com-
pany of the 45th he carried out a
difficult mopping-up of trenches in the
gullies along the ridge. Within one day
he graduated to the command of the 45th,
organised as a single company, in the
front line along Oosttaverne. During four
days of incessant bombing, the battalion
lost 16 officers and 552 men. Allen was a
favorite officer with Bill Glasgow. He
distinguished himself at First Villers-Bret.,
at Monument Wood and in other battles.
He was given the D.S.O. and mentioned
in dispatches, and at 23 had the com-
mand of a battalion.
To command the Artillery Brigade is
Brigadier E. F. Herring, with whom
Allen’s 45th co-operated at Messines. A
Victorian Rhodes scholar when war
broke out, Herring collected a D.S.O. and
M.C. He was called to the Bar in 1919,
and is the only K.C. to command an
A.I.F. Brigade.
Brigadier Morshead, of the 18 th
Brigade, had an exceptionally fine war
record. Bean spotted him at Messines,
where he commanded the crack 33rd
Battalion, as “a young veteran of Gal-
lipoli.” He was afterwards in the thick of
the Brooseinde fight and the second
battle of Passchendaele. The War History
describes him at First Villers-Bret.:
A dapper little schoolmaster, only 28
years of age, in whom the traditions of
the British Army had been bottled like
tight-corked champagne; the nearest
approach to a martinet among all the
young Australian colonels, but able to dis-
tinguish the valuable from the worthless
in ihe old army practice.... With his own
experience of fighting on Baby 700 at the
Anzac landing, he had turned out a bat-
talion which anyone acquainted with the
whole force recognised, even before Mes-
sines, as one of the very best.
In the Villers-Bret. fight under Rosen-
thal, Lancer Wood was Morshead’s
particular job. He rode ahead of his
infantry with a reconnoitring force of the
12th Lancers, and afterwards lost nine
officers and 191 other ranks in one of
the most stirring episodes of the war. Be-
sides gaining the C.M.G. and D. 5.0., he
was mentioned in dispatches six times.
In recent years Morshead has applied
his organising talent as Sydney manager
of the Orient Co.
Brigadier Savige, of the 17th, has had
the most varied experience of them all.
Enlisting as private and returning a cap-
tain, he was on Gallipoli, in Sinai, with
the Dunsterforce in Persia, and in France.
Savige was on that little staff of
Gellibrand’s which lived together in
“Bohemian simplicity” in the hell of
Second Bullecourt. Here it was that
somebody found Gellibrand lying on a
little table in his cramped dugout. “I
beg your pardon, sir, I was looking for
your brigade major,” said the visitor.
“I keep him under here,” said the General
cheerfully, lifting the cloth and revealing
Eric Plant, now in command at Dun-
troon.
At Takan Tepe Savige and his Dun-
sterforce were mixed up in one of
the most colorful incidents of the war.
His convoy was met by Aga Petross and
his Syrian Christians riding into camp,
troop after troop of splendid cavalry in
front, and 80,000 men, women and chil-
dren behind, flying from the Turks with
their herds before them and their wounded
women bringing up the rear. In that
dreadful retreat 30,000 of the refugees
died while Savige and his men kept off
th TheTommand of the Engineers goes
to Colonel C. S. Steele, of Melbourne.
He, too, was through the Great War, i
which he won the M.C. latterly he has
been in command of the 14th Battalion.
They are a capable jot, these new
leaders, the oldest— Morshead— so.
Staff officers for the new A.I.F. in-
clude as G. 5.0.1, in charge of opera-
tions, plans, orders and information a
position analogous to that held by
Brudenell White with the First Division
in the last war— Lt.-Colonel S. F. Rowell
of the Staff Corps. The Q.M.G. will be
another Staff Corps man, Lt.-Colonel
K A Mackenzie. G. 5.0.2, in charge of
training, staff duties and war organisa-
tion, is Major J. E. Garrett, and Lt.
C. C. F. Spry is G. 5.0.3 (Intelligence;.
Major C. E. M. Lloyd is D.A.A.G., and
Major E. W. Woodward D.A.Q.M.G.
“Davy Jones’s Uncle”: Dead Shot
Bill, our depth-charge expert, came
aboard our converted cargo wallah look-
ing like “Hamlet’s” second gravedigger.
“Got anything on your mind, Bill? the
commander asked kindly. Nothing to
speak of,” said Bill, swallowing his gim-
let as if it were vitriol. “What does that
mean?” the commander proceeded.
“Wait till we meet a sub.,” said Bill
darkly. “Well, that’ll be all right,” says
our Second Toff; “it'll give you a chance
to drop some pills and up she’ll go.
What more could you want?” “Only a
ship fast enough to get out of the way,”
says Bill, pouring in his third issue.
“This barge is so slow that every time we
drop a charge it will blow off our stern.”
“Well, what are you worrying about?”
says the Bloke. “You don’t want to let
little things like that get on your mind.
You’re in the navy now.”
* * * *
“Zedo”: The old songs about how
“soldiers live on bread and jam” and “old
John Maconochie he ran a monarchy all
on his own” will have to be revised this
war. Australian rations would put a
first-class boarding-house to shame-
butter, milk, cheese, jams, oatmeal, rice,
sultanas, fresh fruit, a dozen kinds of veg.,
dried apricots, prunes and the favorite
Worcester sauce are all on the menu to
supplement abundant fresh meat and
bread. And movement won’t interfere
with the cooks. Travelling kitchens are
provided, each to cater for 240 men on
the march. In fact, with 1939 rates of
pay and wet canteens the lads would be
quite happy.
SI! # * *
Some of the Military Correspondents
who have swarmed into the papers are
giving their public terrifying information
about Russia. One swears that “the Red
Air Force is colossal,” number of ’planes
being 10,000 and “potential” increase
“1000 machines a week.” Also that “Rus-
sian tanks are the last word in armored
fighting vehicles” and that the army itself
is stupendous, and “officered by first-class
military leaders, all young.” Another an-
nounces that the naval-construction pro-
gramme “includes two cruisers, three air-
craft-carriers, six destroyers and at least
30 submarines,” all “in addition to the
previous building programme,” i.e., three
new battleships, each of 35,000 tons, with
16in. guns.
This would bring the total number of
Soviet submarines up to about 194, easily
about the largest fleet in the world.
Stupendous. The strange thing is that
little Finland (population 4,000,000, and
exposed to attack by land and sea) seems
quite ready to fight the colossus if
attacked.


w
I Doctors say that if your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS' con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful tonic is 10/6. Write NOW for this
amazing new treatment.
uIQW
ŵ
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
MS
;
defied (jvtfc
. . . Rest will recover a child's
I
energy; but only new valves
can bring back the original
brilliance to your radio .• •
Revalve
with
m
Sealed for your protection
THE FLYING COLUMN
The Empire Air Force.
The Governments of Britain, Canada,
Australia and Maoriland have become
parties to what Mr. Menzies describes as
a plan for the building up of a vast
Empire Air Force which “might well be
not only the most spectacular but the
most decisive joint effort that will be
made by the British nations in time of
war.” According to the P.M., it will
mean that Australia, instead of training
and maintaining hundreds of skilled fly-
ing personnel, will be training and main-
taining thousands.
The scheme is to be finalised at a con-
ference to be held in Canada under the
leadership of Lord Riverdale. Lord
Riverdale is better known as Arthur Bal-
four, one of the “characters” of the
British Midlands, who has sat on more
commissions than almost any other living
Englishman. Australia will be represented
at the conference by its competent Civil
Aviation Minister, J. V. Fairbairn.
It is intended to increase production
of aircraft—32 training ’planes a month
is Mr. Fairbairn’s estimate for Australia
“next year”—and treble the number of
flying schools in the Empire. All ad-
vanced training will be done in Canada
(this may apply also to the A.A.E.F.),
though Australian units will apparently
go through their early course here. Every
pilot fully trained and given overseas
experience is a defensive asset provided
he remains Australian, and provided
there are machines in Australia for him
to fly.
Presumably S. Africa was asked to
come in. Either the political quarrel has
neutralised its war effort or the new Gov-
ernment believes that the plan is not
suited to its needs.
French Air Strength.
“D.8.K.”: A year or so ago there was
much concern in aviation circles regard-
ing the condition of the French Air
Force, but, like the R.A.F., it has made
a wonderful recovery. An American
aviation engineer reports that Air
Minister La Chambre has worked
miracles. He rushed into effect a plan
which called for a first-line force of 2500
aircraft, backed by an adequate reserve.
A production rate of 200 per month was
required, but it had actually exceeded
250 per month by June this year. It was
estimated that the rate would be doubled
by September.
Performance figures of the latest
French military aircraft show them to
rival the best types in U.S.A. A very
formidable Morane fighter which ranks
with the British Spitfire and the German
Messerschmitt is being produced at the
rate of 40 per day and equipped
with rapid-fire cannon. Another in this
class is the Bloch 151. Bombers rivalling
the Wellington and Beaufort are being
provided in quantities. They include the
powerful Amiot 340, designed for long-
range high-speed operation, and powered
by two 1100-h.p. motors. Speed with
full military load is 310 m.p.h. Also,
some of the formidable British designs
are being built in French factories, com-
plete from motors to fuselages. Rolls-
Royce engines are produced under
license.
As for personnel for air warfare,
pilots and trained technicians totalled
77,000 nearly a year ago, and that figure
is likely to be more than doubled by
now.
“K.8.D.”: There is an unwritten part
in the Empire Air Force script, as read
by Menzies. The American aviation in-
dustry has been cast for it. Not many
weeks ago it was reported that major
American aircraft manufacturers were
establishing plants on Canadian soil. In
any case, it is a short haul over the
border.
* * * *
“Britmis”: There’s talk of removing
U.S. aircraft factories inland where
they won’t be so vulnerable. It would
be possible for an enemy well supplied
with aircraft-carriers to raid at least the
east coast. During the last war Germany
actually built a ’plane for the purpose of
bombing New York. It was known as the
Poll, or Forstmann Giant, and designed
to carry petrol for an 80-hour flight at
a speed of 130 km. per hour. In a hangar
at Poll, near Cologne, the partly-finished
job was found —a huge triplane, with
“ Thanks , pal."
cabin fuselage, ten engines and extended
middle wing, 165 ft. from tip to tip, against
the 102 ft. of the other two wings. The
engines were arranged in pairs, back to
back, with four pairs at the inter-’plane
struts on the centre wing, and a pair
below the fuselage above the landing
gear. Fuselage length was 150 ft.
* * * *
“Mistral”: Experimental airplane types
developed by British manufacturers but
reckoned not up to R.A.F. requirements
have been snapped up by other nations.
The 250-m.p.h. Fairey Fantome fighter,
mounting four machine-guns and a shell-
firing cannon, was accepted by Belgium
and redesigned as the Feroce. A Beard-
more fighter produced in 1925 just failed
to get an R.A.F. contract, but Latvia
bought a batch of them. The designer
was an Australian, W. S. Shackleton. A
striking experiment which was never re-
peated was the Blackburn Cubaroo, an
immense biplane powered by a 1000-h.p.
16cyl. Napier Cub engine. The fuselage
had three floors, including navigation and
radio rooms, but it was ahead of its time
and had no takers.
* * * *
“Ex-R.A.F.”: Rumors that German
warplanes are built with inferior metal
'don’t impress me. Wonders have been
worked in metallurgy by German engi-
neers in the last few years. Australian
cities have seen a number of German
motor-cars —light jobs—powered with
twin-cylinder, two-stroke motors. If Ger-
many can turn out for export high-quality
cars of this kind at a reasonable price
she doesn’t need to put inferior material
into her warplanes. Don’t forget either
that it was German engineers who de-
veloped duralumin 20 years ago.
“Aren-As”: Machine-guns used in Brit-
ish fighting aircraft in the last war were
mainly the air-cooled Vickers and Lewis.
Present-day guns are far more deadly.
A high-speed fighter used by the
R.A.F. carries eight Browning guns built
into the wing leading edges. They can be
fired individually or simultaneously by
push-button control. The well-proved
Constantinesco gear is still used for syn-
chronising gunfire through the propeller
field. Some bombers of the “flying-
fortress” type carry a high-speed, long-
barrel recoil cannon. The French in
1916 were the first to try heavier arma-
ment than the mitrailleuse in the air.
They used a shortened Hotchkiss Im-
pounder in the nose of a Farman, but
there was no provision for the recoil, and
the first experimental machine almost
shook to pieces. Later there was an
American gadget known as the Davis.
This was a twin-barrelled gun with
centre-breech. The shell left the forward
barrel at the same instant as a dummy
shell was fired from the rear barrel,
through a cut-out in the floor of the
fuselage. The idea was to eliminate re-
coil. It worked according to plan, but
the Davis was too cumbersome to be of
much use.
* * * *
“Oerlikon”: The A.A.E.F. will include
ground staff, raising the personnel to
3200. Group-Captain H. F. de la Rue
has command of the force. At 48 he
has had a wealth of experience, covering
since 1914 the mercantile marine, R.N.
transport, R.N.A.S., R.A.F. and R.A.A.F.
His new command will comprise:
Headquarters Field Force, R.A.A.F.,
169.
First (Fighter) Wing: Headquarters,
66; No. 7 (Fighter) Squadron, 290; No.
15 (Fighter) Squadron, 290.
Second (Bomber) Wing: Headquarters,
66; No. 1 (Bomber) Squadron, 395; No.
8 (Bomber) Squadron, 395.
Third (Bomber) Wing: Headquarters,
66; No. 16 (Bomber) Squadron, 395; No.
17 (Bomber) Squadron, 395:
No. 1 Air Stores Park, 210.
No. 1 Medical Receiving Station, 70.
Headquarters Base Area, 95. Base
depot 46.
Reserves to meet emergency alterations
to establishments, 27.
Reinforcements, 225; total, 3200.
A few R.A.A.F. men will be accepted,
but the force will be enlisted mainly
from civilian airmen.
* * * *
“Clerget”: The radial-type aero engine
has developed greatly from the 100-h.p.
Canton-Unne fitted to Maurice Farmans
'in the early stages of the 1914-18 war.
In U.S.A. the 2000-h.p. Wright Duplex-
Cyclone radial aero engine, rated early
this year as the most powerful in the
world, has since been eclipsed by the
24cyl. Allison, a liquid-cooled job rated
at 2400 h.p.
s** > *
“D. 8.”: It is now evident that the first
offer of six R.A.A.F. squadrons (3200
men) that Australia made to Britain was
only the beginning of things. To in-
crease the all-round strength of the
R.A.A.F. for service at home and abroad,
age-limits for recruits are likely to be
substantially increased. Plans to establish
the civil air reserve will be abandoned ;
those enrolled will be absorbed in a full-
time organisation under direct R.A.A.F.
control.
* * * *
“Colbun”: There is much progress in
the use of laminated plastics for aero-
plane fuselages. It is claimed for the new
Bakeland discovery duramoid that it
does not corrode, resists water, acids and
oils, is stronger than metal, and that its
cheap ingredients are found everywhere.
No rivets or structural supports are
needed, and no drilling or filing to fit
the moulded halves together. The glassy
surface minimises air-resistance, and after
20 months of rigorous testing, including
1600 air hours under conditions involving
every possible flying strain, a 20ft.
Clark 46 fuselage showed no trace of
deterioration. Nine men can mould the
complete fuselage in two hours. Assem-
bly was completed in five hours and 20
minutes. Two thousand men with 100
sets of dies could mould and assemble
3000 a month. Propellers, already made
in England from plastics, are lighter,
stronger and cheaper than metal ones.
* * * *
“Blimp”: It was reported just before
the outbreak of war that Germany had
given up producing Zeppelins. The works
at Friedrichshafen, recently bombed by
Allied ’planes, were turned over to aero-
plane-construction. The Zeppelin co. was
unable to carry on, notwithstanding a
subsidy from the Government. When
transatlantic services were discontinued
after the Hindenburg disaster, the only
revenue was obtained from exhibiting
the old Graf Zeppelin. Another setback
was the U.S.A.’s refusal to supply Ger-
many with helium gas unless there was
a guarantee that it would not be used for
war.purposes. Germany wouldn’t give
that guarantee, and therefore has to rely
on hydrogen.
* * * *
“ON2”: When Britain’s Hawker Hur-
ricane and Supermarine Spitfire fighters
were first designed they used fixed-pitch
wooden propellers; recently a change
was made to an American metal pro-
peller, incorporating a lighter hub with
blade-pitch-changing mechanism.


ẁ
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;W. 11. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FOItBBS.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, S’ydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE - 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “Jo Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Gentleman, 40, uni. deg. economics and com-
merce, exp. accountant and office manager,
private-school teacher, wants position where
ability can be shown.—49ss.
Vic. country youth (20), college education,
good appearance and speaking voice, interested
in advertising, wants position in Sydney.—
4966.
Opening for competent and active photo-
grapher in country town; small capital desir-
able.—497s.
To buy or trade Dogs and the Fleas, Evans’s
Old and New Magic and Easy Tests for
Minerals. —4938.
To buy holey dollar. —4953.
To hear from all those in favor of the
abolition of State Parliaments.—49s4.
Words of verse entitled “Not Worth It,”
which appeared in the Bloemfontein (S’Africa)
newspaper “Volkstein” during the Boer War
and later in The Bulletin —4946.
Information Sought.
What is the position with regard to aliens
wishing to enter Australia ? —4724.
All aliens of white race wishing to settle
permanently in Australia must have landing
permits issued by the Department of the In-
terior. Under the White Australia policy
colored persons are not allowed to enter the
Commonwealth for permanent residence. Aliens
wishing to apply for naturalisation must be of
good character, have lived in Australia for at
least 12 months immediately preceding their
application, and have previously resided either
in Australia or in some part of the British
Empire for four years within the eight years
preceding their application. Applicants must
have an adequate knowledge of the English
language. Naturalisation certificates issued since
1921 are of Imperial significance and extend
throughout - the British Empire.
* * * *
Have any operas composed by Johann Strauss
the younger been presented in Australia ?
4745.
Yes, “Die Fledermaus,” billed as “The Bat,”
was first staged in Australia in 1877, again as
“The Nightbirds” in 1912, and under its
Austrian title in 1935. Other Strauss operas
played in Australia were ’’The Merry War,”
“The Gipsy Baron,” “The Queen’s Lace Hand-
kerchief” and “Prince Methusalem.”
“Waltzes from Vienna,” based on the music of
Strauss, was played in Australia in 1933.
* * * *
Simple definitions of Nazism and Com-
munism ? —4965.
In theory, Nazism acknowledges that its
authority derives from an inspired leadership.
Communism, in theory, is based on a dictator-
ship of the proletariat—the expression of the
will of a classless society in which all are equal
and leaders are merely machinery for expres-
sion of the masses. In practice in Germany
and Russia the crystallisation of both theories
amounts to the same thing—both countries are
under dictatorship and subject to the will of a
single individual.
* * * *
What treatment or process does sparkling
wine undergo to make it differ from still wine ?
—4983.
Selected dry wine is inoculated with a single-
cell yeast culture and at the same time given
a dose of grape sugar upon which the yeast
can work. This wine is bottled, corked and the
cork held in position with an agraffe or steel
clip. After some months, according to the wine
and activity of the yeast, fermentation com-
mences, resulting in the sugar being broken
by the yeast action into two parts—Co2 and
alcohol. As there is no egress for the CO2,
and as the yeast persists in working, gas con-
tinues to be created until an internal gas pres-
sure exists of over 1001 b. to the square inch.
The wine thus becomes naturally charged,
assimilating the gas due to the pressure. During
the process a deposit occurs which is ejected
during the disgorging process. The wine is then
liqueured to make it palatable (the yeast
having eliminated all sugar), is corked, aged
for some years in cellars, and then distributed
to the market. For every 100 bottles laid
down only 80 reach the public, and each and
every bottle is handled on at least 200 indi-
vidual occasions.
* * '* *
(1) What is a meningocele, and by what is
it caused? (2) Is it dangerous to Life? (3)
Is it curable, and, if so, by what means ? (4)
Are meningoceles of different forms or kinds ?
—4736.
(1) A condition in which the meninges (or
membranes covering the spinal cord) protrude,
through a congenital defect in the bones of the
spinal column. (2) Very frequently. (3) Many
cases are not suitable for treatment, but in
infants who survive the first few weeks of
life the methods of treatment are two: (n) the
injection of fluid which causes obliteration of
the swelling or (6) the surgical removal of the
swelling. The immediate and after results
cannot be called satisfactory in many cases.
(3) The structure is identical in all, but there
are large variations in size.
Particulars of the National Safety Council
of Australia? —5010.
Founded in Melbourne in 1927 to develop,
mainly by education, safety on the road, at
work and in the home, the council has ex-
tended its activities to wherever it can reduce
the toll of accidents. It issues a booklet with
every car-driver’s license, and conducts a con-
tinuous propaganda campaign through the
press and other sources. Junior safety councils
are formed in schools, and posters and films
are made available to instruct children. A
“safe-driving” campaign for motorists and a
“freedom-from-accidents” competition have
been instituted, and a factories’ service of four
posters a month and slips for pay envelopes
were supplied to over 45,000 employees last
year. Committees deal with problems affecting
traffic, films, safety in industry, air safety and
home dangers. Lectures are given throughout
the year, and the services of the council are
available to any organisation which makes
application to the secretary. The council is
supported by public subscription and sales of
service.
* * * *
Particulars of agricultural settlement in
Papua ?— 4985.
Mostly in the Central and Eastern Divisions,
with coconuts and rubber as the principal
crops. By law, natives must plant coconuts
for food supply, and, in addition to these,
coconuts are planted over small and widely-
scattered areas by the older natives in accord-
ance with custom. The Native Plantation
Ordinance provides for the establishment of
plantations in which half the proceeds are paid
to the natives entitled thereto, and the other
half into the Native Education Fund. Areas
of different crops in the 1936 season were
coconuts 48,188 acres, rubber 10,270, sisal hemp
150, kapok 168, coffee 368, other 801.
* * * *
Particulars of a flight from Australia to Eng-
land by Flight-Lieutenant Shiers and D.
Smith ?— 4392.
There is no record of a completed flight from
Australia to England by Shiers and the late
D. Smith. They took off from Wyndham,
W.A., on April 20, 1930, in a Ryan 8.l mono-
plane fitted with a Wright Whirlwind J-5 engine,
but a forced landing 35 miles from Bangkok
on April 25 damaged their ’plane so exten-
sively that the flight was abandoned. Shiers,
however, with Keith Smith, Ross Smith and
J. M. Bennett, made the England-Australia
flight in November-December, 1919. This was
the first flight in either direction between the
two countries and gained for the participants
the prize of £lO,OOO offered by the Common-
wealth Government after the termination of
the Great War for the first flight to be accom-
plished by Australian nationals from England
to Australia within 30 days.
* * * *
Particulars of aeroplanes in Australia suit-
able for heavy transport duties, including de-
tails of hatch loading through the roof of the
cabin, loading through the cabin door, load,
cabin space, cost, operating costs and cruising
speeds ? —4411.
Aircraft suitable for hatch loading through
the cabin roof are not available in Australia
at present, but Guinea Airways, Lae, New
Guinea, has four Junkers G-31 type ’planes,
one Ford 5-AT. and one Ford 4-AT., all
of which have been modified by the owners
to permit handling of cargo which is either too
bulky to pass through the normal cabin door
or too heavy to be handled by man-power.
The cabin floors and walls have been
strengthened by extra stiffening members and
- coverings of sheet duralium or wood to pre-
vent damage to the structure. Can find no
record of any British aircraft built expressly
for such work. Following aircraft types
would be suitable for cargo-carrying provided
that the normal passenger flooring was
strengthened and the interior structure pro-
tected against damage. (Figures are approxi-
mate ; operating costs include fuel, oil, main-
tenance, overhaul and depreciation):
Douglas Douglas
D.H.86. D.H.89. DC.2. DC.3.
Cabin space
(cub. ft.) .. 450 160 600 1,000
Maximum load
* (lb.) .. 2,000 1,000 3,000 4,000
Cost .. .. £14,260 £6,500 £23,000 £29,000
Operating cost
per hour .. £8 3s. £4 10s. £l6-£l9 £l6-£l9
Cruising speeds
(m.p.h.) .. 125 115 170 180
Fuel consumption is always calculated in gal-
lons p.h. The Gipsy VI engines in the D.H.86
and D.H.89 use between eight and nine gal-
lons p.h. per engine; the Cyclone engines in
the Douglas ’planes use approximately 33 to 40
gallons p.h. per engine, the consumption vary-
ing in direct proportion to the percentage of
available power necessary to maintain the speed
required.
* * * *
(1) What are the regulations governing the
installation and operation of wireless licenses
in Australia ? (2) How many wireless licenses
are there issued in the various States of Aus-
tralia ? —4981.
(1) Under the Wireless Telegraphy Act and
Regulations no wireless station can be in-
stalled or operated without a license from the
P.M.G. Licenses are issued for (a) coast
stations which are operated at various points
around the coast by Amalgamated Wireless
(Australasia) under agreement with the Com-
monwealth; (b) ship stations —regulations under
the Navigation Act, 1935, stipulate that all
ships registered in Australia and engaged in
inter-State traffic must have an efficient radio
telegraph installation, which, in the case of
vessels of less than 750 tons gross register, must
include apparatus for automatically transmitting
prescribed signals of distress, these vessels not
being required to carry fully qualified operators;
(c) land stations to be operated where no
telephone or telegraph facilities exist; (d)
broadcasting stations other than those of the
National Broadcasting Service; (e) broadcast
listeners’ receiving sets; (/) portable stations on
motor-cars, etc.; (g) aircraft stations; ( h ) ex-
perimental stations; (i) special stations —other
than those already mentioned. (2) 1936-37:
Coast stations, N.S.W. two, Vic. one, Q. six,
S.A. one, W.A. five, Tas. three, N.T. one,
A.C.T. nil, Papua and New Guinea nine;
ship stations, 92, 89, 15, 10, four, one, one,
nil, nil; aircraft stations, five, nine, five, one,
two, nil, one, nil, nil; land stations, eight, three,
32, 13, 45, seven, 29, nil, 26; broadcast stations
(excluding 21 stations operated by the National
B’casting Service), 25, 18, 16, six, seven, six, nil,
one, one; broadcast listeners, 356,859, 288,717,
101,324, 98,917, 61,151, 29,780, 116, 1433
34; experimental, 676, 481, 227, 176, 114, 50, nil,
eight, five; portable, 13, six, six, three, two,
one, seven, nil, 14; special, 34, 25, 10, nil,
three, nil, nil, nil, nil; total licenses in each
State, 357,714, 289,349, 101,641, 99,127, 61,333,
29,848, 155, 1442, 80; total licenses in Aus-
tralia, 940,698.
* * * *
(1) Who designed the N S. Wales centenary
stamps issued in 1888 ? (2) Value? (3) What
does the penny value illustrate? —4989.
(1) One penny and 6d. by M. Tannenberg;
2d. and Bd. by Miss Devine; 4d. by H. Barra-
clough; ss. by C. .Turner; and 20s. by Mrs.
Stoddard. The Is. was taken from a picture
of a kangaroo in the Sydney Museum. (2)
Lower values are not worth much, but some
of the rarer perforations are worth a few
shillings. The ss. and 20s. are catalogued from
a few shillings to over £2 10s. used. They are
worth more unused. (3) A view of Sydney
Harbor from Mosman Bay.
* * * *
Information regarding the pyrethrum from
which insecticide is prepared?— 4BBs.
The best insecticide is obtained from the
Dalmatian pyrethrum ( Chrysanthemum cin-
erarias folium), a plant bearing white flowers
not unlike the wild camomile in appearance.
Pyrethrum has been grown successfully in
Queensland, but only in small garden plots, so
local information relating to possible yield, cost
of production and likely market values are not
obtainable at present. The bulk of pyrethrum
powder used in Australia is now imported
from Japan, a circumstance which necessitates
efficiency and reasonably low production costs
if any Australian competition is to survive.
Wholesale chemists and companies interested
in pest destroyers might be possible markets.
* -1! * »
How to find the approximate weight of gold
slugs contained in a vessel bin. by Ain. by
2iin. ?— 4948.
Allowing 10 cub. in. for space between the
slugs, there would be about 50 cub. in. of
gold in the vessel. One cub. ft. (1728 cub. in.)
of gold weighs 1204.321 b.; therefore 50 cub.
in. would weigh approximately 351 b.
* * * *
Information concerning copper-production in
the different States of Australia ? —4980.
Latest figures available are for 1936. Tas-
mania was the top producer with 13,040 tons,
worth £556,734 —all produced by the Mount
Lyell Mining and Railway Company. Ore and
concentrates treated totalled 58,966 tons, and
gave 13,040 tons of copper, 103,1890 z. of silver
and 70460 z. of gold. Queensland yielded 3828
tons, valued at £161,688 —a big drop from
1920, when nearly 16,000 tons, worth £1,552,000,
was produced. The main producing areas in
Queensland were Cloncurry 1862 tons, Her-
berton 133 tons, and Mount Morgan 1675 tons.
Copper is found over a large part of South
Australia, and its total production easily exceeds
that of any other State, but in recent years its
production has dwindled and is now surpassed
by that of Tasmania and Queensland. In
1936 S.A. produced 451 tons of copper, worth
£22,609. New South Wales produced 758 tons
of electrolytic copper and 56 tons of concen-
trates, most of which was obtained at Port
Kembla from the treatment of 1714 tons of
copper matte, forwarded from the Broken Hill
smelters and obtained from Broken Hill silver-
lead ores. Value was £53,687. W.A. produced
35 tons of copper in 1933, and the only pro-
duction since then has been two tons, worth
£97 and exported in 1936. For the year ended
June 30, 1936, 198 tons of copper ore was
raised in the N.T. and yielded copper worth
£lB7l.
* * * *
Details of construction of a sapling spring
trap ? —4932.
Drive two strong hardwood pegs about 2in.
by 3in. into the ground and join with a piece
of bar iron. On the centre of the bar fit a
piece of fencing-wire a couple of inches long
with one end turned up to form a 45-deg. hook
bent backwards towards the sapling root.
Place the pegs so that the sapling end, when
bent down, will overlap the bar by about three
or four inches. Lay bait on the ground and
protect it on three sides so that it can only be
approached through a noose hung on the end
of the sapling and just touching the ground.
In the sapling fit a screw eyelet which will just
catch the trigger hook when the sapling is bent
down. With a fairly short string tie bait to
trigger near the point where it enters the eyelet.
The marauder pulls the bait, releasing the
trigger and springing the sapling.
* * * *
Name and particulars of an A.B.C. radio
commentator known as “The Watchman” ?
4940.
He is Edward Alexander Mann, born 1874
at Mount Gambier, S.A., and educated privately
and at Melbourne University. He was Govern-
ment Analyst and Chief Inspector of Explosives
and an agricultural chemist in W.A. for 27
years, and was a member of the Royal Com-
mission on Ventilation and Sanitation of Mines
in W.A. in 1902. He has written on chemical
investigations and gases caused by explosives
in mines. Was M.H.R. for Perth from 1922-29.
Brief Answers.
WHS.: (1) Do not understand “controlled
discharge.” (2) Full particulars of remedial
measures are contained in a leport o
Government from Rendel, Palmer and Tntton,
now before Parliament J-P.B : Anthony
Eden is Dominions Secretary and a member
of the British Cabinet... .A.M. : (1) No. (Z)
No, but they printed some of the British Gov-
ernment notes issued after the outbreak o
war in 1914. (3) No information available.
PW M ■ (1) Try Solvoid, obtainable
in'i-pint tin's for Is., 1-pint Is. 9d„ one pint
3s. 2d., two pints ss. 9d., four pints 10s, 6d.
and one gallon 20s. Id. (2) Silex woo
filler should be suitable. One pound for lOd
71b. for ss. 3d., 141 b. 9s. 4d., 561 b. £1 12s. Bd.
. ...D.J.W.: He was associated with the co.;
can find no record as to his dancing....
C.U.M.: (1) and (2) One may be tried and
found not guilty and another may be tried
separately for the same crime and found guilty.
(3) and (4) He could be tried as an accessory
before the fact. “An accessory before the fact
may be indicted, tried, convicted and punished
in all respects as if he were the principal
felon” R.S.S.: The number of cub. ft. of
lucerne hay to the ton varies according to the
quality of the hay, its maturity and the height
of the stack and the time it has been built.
With average quality hay under average con-
ditions there are about 370 cub. ft. to the ton.
The same applies to clover hay, the number
of cub. ft. of clover silage to the ton being
approximately 40... .A. 8.: To darken eyebrows
and eyelashes apply yellow vaseline at night
and smear along brows in direction of growth.
Encourage lash growth upwards. Dyes in any
form are best avoided... .R.W.: Neither
Who’s Who nor Whitaker’s Peerage contains
the abbreviation mentioned... .T.M.: No,
China’s rice production exceeds 40,000,000
tons; latest figures give N.S.W. production as
2,276,000 bushels A.N.McK.: Can’t say
without knowing more of the method
CG B : Write to the Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, Melbourne, for infor-
mation regarding producer-gas vehicles
O W.H.: The cracking of the incinerator is
not the fault of the cement, but is probably
due to the expansion of the brickwork itself,
and possibly to the expansion of the iron tank
against the brick walls if the walls have been
built hard up against the tank. Excessive heat
applied to the cement would not cause cracking
of the structure, but only powdering of the
cement mortar. Special refractory cements
should not be necessary for a job of this sort.
When building allow space for the tank to
breathe freely when heated and cooled
N.McL.: “The Watchman’s” talk is preceded
by the “Homage March” by Grieg J.P.N.:
The Australian Associated Press is an associa-
tion of Australian daily newspapers which owns
the Australian rights of portion of the news
broadcast in 8.8. C. news bulletins Anxious:
They can legitimately claim the balance of the
cost of his maintenance in hospital, 1 but
whether the charge made is a reasonable one
would depend entirely on circumstances. Ask
them if they cannot see their way to reduce
the demand, having regard to the money already
paid, the estate being such a small 0ne....
Anon: There does not appear to be anything
binding on “the old couple” to compel them
to continue the family arrangement made by
the son. They should tell him that in the cir-
cumstances stated they must terminate it unless
he agrees to a more equitable adjustment
C. : General Foch’s name is pronounced
“fosh,” with a short “o” as in “not”
D. : Asbestos easily withstands tempera-
tures of 2000 deg. to 3000 deg. Fahrenheit, while
temperatures of 5000 deg. F. have produced no
visible effects on some varieties... .D.8.0’C.:
Apply to the Department of Agriculture,
Farrer-place, Sydney, for information regard-
ing the propagation of mushroom fungus
A.T.G.: Letters from a Self-made Merchant
to His Son is by the late G. H. Lorimer.
His other books are Old Gorgon Graham,
The False Gods and Jack Spurlock — Prodigal.
C.J.D.: The paddock couldn’t be
more than 120 acres A.H.T.: (1) Write
Director of Mines, Darwin, N.T., and A. M.
Blain, M.H.R., Canberra, A.C.T. (2) The sub-
marine must be practically on the surface.
About 1000 yards off under good conditions.
(3) There are so many factors governing the
effects of depth-charges that success can be
relied on only if the charge explodes on
or very, close to the submarine W.W.G.:
Approximately 80 miles....X: The college is
well-equipped and well-staffed, but it depends
on yourself and your capacity for the work
whether you can succeed in doing what you
wish —it certainly is possible for a man of
average mechanical training and inclination.
Have no knowledge as to the intentions of the
Government as yet—policy on training is in
the melting-pot. ' Fifteen months from now
every available trained ground man is likely to
be needed G.A.0.: Quarantine Act regs.,
1908-24, prohibit the introduction of dogs from
New Guinea to the mainland of Australia....
F.Y.M.: (1), (2) and (3) N0....J.5.:. No
record, but very unlikely.... .A.S.H.: (1) “Pilot”
of the “Referee” has joined the staff of The
Bulletin. (2) and (3) The “Sporting Globe,”
care the “Herald,” Melbourne... .W.G.8.:
Question too vague... .J.J.8.: Pictorial Golf
was published in America by Dodd, Mead and
Co., 443-449 Fourth-avenue, New York, in 1928.
K.McL.: If the engine is using a quart
of oil per hundred miles it would certainly seem
to need a rebore, and in that case it should
do no harm to experiment with the product
mentioned. Why not write to the agents for
your car? M.C.: “II Duce” is pronounced
“eel doochey,” with the accent on the “doo”
and the “ey” very short. “Adios” is pro-
nounced with the accent on the “a” as in
“part”—the “i” as “ee” and 1 the “os” as in
“dose” C.J.8.: No, the Earl Beatty who
was in Australia recently is the son of the
Earl Beatty “of Jutland fame.” He succeeded
his father in 1936. The elder Beatty had two
sons E.R.W.: The needles are unobtain-
able in Australia as there are no agents for
them. Write to the Foster Knitting Machine
Co., 75 King-street, Sydney.


MACMILLAN’S
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at whicn
the books are published in London. Prices
outside the British Isles must be fixed 'by
the importing bookseller.
Overseas Library
HUGH WALPOLE’S
New Novel
THE SEA TOWER
The story of a masterful woman,
depicting anew Walpole’s great mastery
of the element of suspense.
E. M. DELAFIELD
LOVE HAS NO RESURRECTION
A collection of brilliant short stories
—comic, satirical and serious by the
author of “The Provincial Lady.”
MAZO DE LA ROCHE
THE SACRED BULLOCK
Delightful short stories about animals
by the author of the famous “Whiteoak
Chronicles.”
THE MIDDLE PASSAGE
ROLAND BARKER and
WM. DOERFLINGER
A novel of violence and passion, of
salt water and trade in Africa and
America.
MACMILLAN’S
3/6 LIBRARY
New Volumes
HUGH WALPOLE
John Cornelius
MAZO DE LA ROCHE
The Very House
E. M. DELAFIELD
As Others Hear Us
To be obtained from all
booksellers and
MACMILLAN & Co. Ltd.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
Sound
INVESTMENTS
that do not fluctuate
o
INTEREST BEARING DEPOSITS
An interest bearing deposit with the Bank of New
South Wales provides perfect safety and the
comfort of an assured income at regular intervals.
All the Bank's branches in Australia accept
deposits of £5 and upwards. The rates at present
are:
3% per annum for 24 months
2J% per annum for 12 months
2i% P er annum for 6 months
2% per annum for 3 months
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
AGGREGATE ASSETS EXCEED £127,000,000
502 A 1939
cm*«**u
m
m
mm
Ko<Sl
i
®r
OUTDOORS
Every changing
mood of nature is
an invitation to
filming in Koda-
chrome. Once you
start using Koda-
chrome you’ll dis-
cover how truly
colourful the world
is and how your
appreciation of that
colour grows with
your filming of it.
From sunrise to
sunset, your Koda-
chrome - loaded
Cine - Kodak can
catch every hue and
tone,
INDOORS
A special kind of
Kodachrome —•
Type A is avail
able for _ indoor
work. It is speci-
ally colour balanced
for use by Photo-
flood light.
A New Thrill in Life
This exclusive Kodak colour process
gives you no mere illusion of colour,
but the real thing full-bodied and
brilliant, or soft and subtle. It's
colour as you wanted it together
with all the action of life itself !
Let us demonstrate.
Of all Cine-Kodak Dealers and
KODAK f A/asia) pty. Ltd.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Perth, Hobart, Launceston, Toowoomba.
Townsville, Rockhampton, Cairns, New*
castle, Ballarat.
NATURAL COLOUR
MOVIES
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS,
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally
D.M.: Not even these days 1.M.P.; Don’t
want that perfect lover V.E.F.r It at least
seems heartfelt... .M.J.: Unconvincing.... J. 8.:
Sentiment is right F.H.: “Bondage” isn’t
strong enough M.R.: No room for “The
Mare” A.R.: No Z.D.V.: Style not
straightforward enough L.H.H.: Not here.
. ...M.J.L.: Send it to “Marg.’s Monthly” or
something H.M.: Not up, but keep trying.
E.W.: Thin R.G.: Too lurid for us.
....W.G.T.: “The Cow” is very lean....
T.W.N.: Swillin’ Ned and Boozin’ Bill met the
chucker-out R.S.P.; We’ve read that “page
of long ago” too many times... .J. 8.8.:
You’ve left out the lambs J.K.R.: That old
stray dog that stares reproachfully into the
eyes of the weary wayfarer just as he’s going
to jump into the river deserves a pension....
E. 1.: Did you mean to bring “Ruth” in?....
E.McF.: “And the air is abuzz with the hum
of the bee.” You can hardly hear yourself
speak for them in this office since the spring
started... .J.8.P.: A happy thought:
People live much longer, for medicines decreased,
Quite unmistakably, the number of deceased.
. ...E.W.W.: “Ah then” and “Amen” wasn’t
a wise rhyme F.W.M.: Muddled M. 8.:
Don’t like the “soaked dog” G.L.: “The
rising sun doth coyly peep.” Perhaps it doth,
but couldn’t you find a more up-to-date way
of saying it? J.B. and 8.N.D.: No good
calling up C. J. Dennis to say it for y0u....
V. M.H., G.M., N.E.C., G.S.H., E.L.R.,
W. H.H., 8.A.K., J.S. and J.D.: Mis-
fires... .L.L.: Not quite.... KW.: “The
Awakening” didn’t stir us R.8.M.: It’s not
amusing... .E.W.: Think you’ll have to keep
that story “for the boys”... .8.M.: Not far
off... .R.S.C.: Doesn’t ring true... .F.C.: A
children’s paper might take it J.N.C.: “At
least I haven’t written anything worse than
this.” That’s not hard to believe H.8.Y.:
You’d do much better writing advertising copy.
... .F.C.L.: Searched for the point in vain....
G.N.C.: It’s not a competition winner, but
don’t give up... .L.F.R.: Yes, “good, honest
humor is the thing”; there’s not even a smile
in that... .G.8.T.: Others have said it better.
T.A.: “A literary revel”? You mean a
riot R.E.P.: The same old people and the
same old p10t... .T.R.S.: And why should we
be interested in trapping the Arctic f0x?....
J.T.C.: “It has taken me a good deal of time
and effort to master this style.” A vain
effort G.C.1.: The number of people who
have figured in exactly the same true experi-
ence would amaze you... .G.V.R.: You dis-
appointed us by not freezing the poor orphan
cheild to death in a storm P.D.C.: There’s
nothing to it except words M.G.L.: “Suc-
tion” won’t draw a cheque... .L.8.T.: Come
again when you’ve cooled off a little....
L.T.N.: Nicely done, but off our beat....
N.T.S.: Keep at it and you should see print
500 n... .F.8.T.: Duds, all of ’em... .8.N.L.:
What is the terrific attraction about the title
“Interlude”? 8.T.L.: It’s time you showed
some slight improvement J.R.A.: You have
a line of talk that would probably sell any-
thing except short stories... .P. 8.5.: Austra-
lian interest too slight... .N.T.D.: Less fine
writing and more story would help T.R.T.:
A weak plot handled still more weakly
F.L.P.: “I wrote this because of a bet.”
Somebody’s backed the wrong horse L.T.S.:
We left at the sixth murder N.8.L.: Not
really 1....H.D.C., G.N.T., C.D.S., K.R. and
P.F.T.: Not here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.D.L.: How do people learn to speak by
that balloon method? K.T.: A weird col-
lection of scratchy lines M. 8.: Those
figures aren’t “fanciful,” they’re grotesque....
W.H.C.: Is it a hag or a haggis?... .L.M.:
An echo of a Scorfield joke L.A.P.: Don’t
want landscapes in water-color F.K.: Try
for a more simple style J.D.: A gloomy
10t....8.H.: The cat is now grinning at us
from the w.p.b S.L.: No market here for
posed “battle scenes” T.0.R.: This week’;.
muddiest effort... .8.W.: Impossible to judge
from copies... .J.C.D.: Women haven’t worn
that sort of clothes for 15 years D.McK.:
It’s not Billy Hughes nor yet Chamberlain nor
anybody else we know; who is it? H.N.:
A libel on all cattle 5.T.0.: The gags are
fair enough, but you’re no artist... .L.G.: Try
the comic strip on a daily, but let us see some
joke drawings R. 0.5.: Thought it funny
when we first saw it in an American paper....
F.P.: The termagant is brandishing her rolling-
pin somewhere in the post office... .L. 8.: And
we moved that drunk off our doorstep for the
umpteenth time... .J.S.D.: The etcher went
out for a stiff noggin after one look.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“T.”: 11l fares the land for which
Amazons fight and whose strength is
vouched for by Professor Roberts. Ama-
zons fought—in the flapper press —for
Abyssinia, Red Spain, China and Poland.
The professor certified (1) that Czecho-
slpvakia was “enormously strong,” and
if attacked by Germany would, without
assistance, “hold the ridges from Eger
to the Oder” ; and (2) that “Poland is no
second Czechoslovakia, and August, 1939,
is far from being September, 1938 ; Polish
morale is magnificent.” If the prof,
could be persuaded, as part of his war
effort, to tip Germany to win in three
years, the allies would win in three
months.
“Aren-As”: Air-raids, eh? I recall the
most famous of all raids on England,
the attack on July 7, 1917. Twenty-
two Gothas reached London unheralded
between 10 and 11 a.m. It was a fine
morning, and they could be seen
plainly in V formation. After some
doubt as to whether they were friendly
or hostile craft, there was a rush to cover.
The air was torn by a continuous bom-
bardment from above and below, and
through this could occasionally be heard
the faint tattoo of machine-guns as the
bombers were attacked. The enemy loss
was one Gotha —down in the sea off
North Foreland. Although more than
100 British pilots were in the air, they
were at a disadvantage, as they acted
singly against an enemy flying in regular
order. It’s a different matter with the
high-speed fighter squadrons of to-day ;
if more than half the number of bombers
on either side get back safely that side
can notch up a successful operation.
* * * *
“Koura”: When Ratana came to Patea
(B. 27/9/’39) there was another Maori
prophet operating about 30 miles away.
Believing that he had miraculously cured
his son of consumption, this Maori set
up as a religious leader, and soon found
supporters at his pa. His teaching was
a literal interpretation of “The Lord will
provide,” and while the leader’s beard
grew long and the supporters sang hymns
to the ukulele, the sect ate its way cheer-
fully through the provisions in hand.
When* they refused to get the hay in, or
even to milk the cows, a pakeha firm
that had an interest in the stock began
to take an interest in the religion, which
looked to it more like a mania. Ratana*
himself was considered insane at the
beginning of his career. South Tara-
naki Maoris had a precedent from the
later days of the Maori war for believ-
ing the wildest of prophets. They fol-
lowed Horopapara Te Ua, who invented
the religion of Pai-Marire. The transla-
tion is “Goodness and Grace,” but it
Jed to cruel and bloody doings, and the
faithful, who were promised immunity
from the bullets of the pakeha if they
marched to battle thrusting their hands
in the air and shouting “Hau! Hau! ”
came to be somewhat disappointed
with it.
* * * *
One thing very evident even from
this distance is the firm way in which
Britain is handling the war from an
economic point of view. No fancy prices
are being paid, and large stocks of metals
and other raw materials were acquired
long before war broke out. Though some
may object to it, rigid control appears
to have b een exercised over prices and
monetary matters generally since the
gong went. Great efforts, in other words,
have been made to maintain “equili-
brium.”


IMPERIAL PORTABLE
BABY EMPIRE PORTABLE
The ONLY completely BRITISH Portable Typewriters sold in AUSTRALIA
M
Still available from £l2/1 27-
imperial PORTABLE: A port-
able with EVERY Standard feature.
BABY EMPIRE: The smallest,
lightest, most compact Portable
Typewriter.
w
BRITISH TYPEWRITER DISTRIBUTORS.
L Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd., 47 Creek Street, BRISBANE ; Jackson & O’Sullivan, Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Dobell Pty., Ltd., 107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY ; Roneo Co., Ltd., 21 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. Johnson a
Hrv 17 Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE. Geo. Raitt & Co.. Ltd., 467 Golhn.s Street, MELBOURNE,
r o hn Withers & Sons, 210 Queen Street, MELBOURNE. Holdsworth & Co.. Ltd., 51 Grentell Street,
IdeJiDE Burridge & Warren, Ltd, 69 King Street, PERTH. J Walch & Son, Ltd., 130 Macquarie
Street, HOBART; J. C. McPhee Pty., Ltd., 99 Collins Street, HOLAIvI.
Cut this advertisement out and send to nearest agent.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
War on the Brisbane Front
“Ek Dum”: It is long since Brisbane
has had a week so full of public excite-
ment as last week. The council started
it. At a meeting held to discuss the finan-
cial position—the Lud Mayor protests
that it is “not desperate”—his Ludship
was accused of being a dictator, and an
alderman closed a speech with the Nazi
salute and a loud, triumphant cry of “Heil
Hitler.” The meeting broke up in a scene
of wild unseemliness, and the municipal
canteen was incontinently proclaimed
dry.
At another meeting the debate was
mostly interjection. An alderman said:
“We dissociate ourselves from the
drunken state the council was in last
week.” The Lud Mayor threatened to
have him removed, and appealed to the
press to referee and say who were the
disorderly aldermen. The debate degen-
erated into a verbal melee rich in such
remarks as “crook,” “rotten,” “I wouldn’t
live in the same street with you,” and
“You couldn’t even lie straight in bed.”
Parliament was not behind its small
sister. “You are a liar,” shouted the
usually mild Opposition Whip, J. B.
Edwards, at the Premier. The Premier
responded politely : “You are capable of
any crime that does not require courage.”
In the end, the Whip apologised.
Then two private members had a
wrangle in which most opprobrious things
were imputed, and an “insulting lie” and
a “deliberate fie” were about the mildest
terms employed. Hooray for State Parlia-
ments and for councils which ape them!
“Zedo”: Queensland Taxation Report
gives some interesting figures about the
individual opulence of the North. There
were last year only eight Queenslanders
who turned over £lO,OOO a year or more.
A wholesale manufacturer topped the fist
—£16,977 ; State tax, £5506. A hotel-
keeper was next with £15,552, of which
the State took £4764. One commission
agent weighed in with £ll,o6B—McGrab
took £3746 from him apart from • the
Federal carving. A couple of store-
keepers averaged £B3OO each and two
sheepmen £14,200 each. Three mus-
keteers labelled “miscellaneous occupa-
tions” had £46,000 among them. There
were 59 taxpayers with actual incomes
between £5OOO and £lo,ooo—including 10
sheep and seven cattle graziers, four pro-
fessional men, four employees, 11 traders
and six wholesale manufacturers. The Cin-
derellas of the earning communities seem
to be dairy-farmers and public servants —
they are the only two categories in which
incomes over £2OOO are not fisted, and
there are only seven dairy-farmers with
actual returns of over £lOOO a year. Tak-
ing numbers into consideration, pub-
keepers scored best —there were 169 with
£lOOO a year or over and 47 with over
£2OOO.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The Australian Inland Mis-
sion, freed of some of its former respon-
sibilities through the creation of the new
flying-doctor organisation, has founded
a soldiers’ club at Rabaul. The scheme
has been approved by the military
authorities, and organisation will be taken
in hand by the Rev. C. Goy, northern
patrol padre, who is a Defence chaplain.
It is proposed to raise £5OOO.
* * * *
“Gain”: There are times when I am
almost glad Pacific Island pioneers are
dying out. The things that happen these
days would give some of the tough old
hands apoplexy. What would a trader
of a generation ago think of a European
being haled to court by a native driver
—as one was the other day in Rabaul—
for assault/and using insulting language?
True, the Court decided that there was
no assault, but defendant was fined half
a dollar for the “language.” Justice, no
doubt, but imaging the effect among
500,000 natives who are being ruled by
a few hundred whites! I doubt if you
would find a thing like that happening in
the more primeval British Crown
colonies. Of course, it is wrong for a
white to insult a native driver, but in
some of the British-ruled regions where
there are generations of experience of
the native mind a way is found of dis-
“ F.arquhar, scratch my back!"
couraging that sort of thing without sub-
jecting the whole white race to loss of
status in native eyes. I know the League
theory is that all men are equal. The
League should shift to the tropics fon a
bit —and take its wife and young
daughters with it.
* * * #
“Binatung”: The islands seem to be
the only places which are not enjoying
the benefits of this war. Down south,
we hear, the Government has stepped in
and bought butter, eggs, dried fruit, meat,
wool, metals and anything else it can
lay hands on. Copra is barred, and copra
is a commodity which needs stability of
price in these days when the islands
where it is produced form the defensive
fringes of the Commonwealth. The N.G.
Planters’ Association has passed a resolu-
tion pointing the way, but Canberra can
be very deaf when it likes.
* * * *
“Phrldee”: The Westralian Health De-
partment wants a medical officer for
Marble Bar at £lOOO p.a—“Applicants
must be willing to perform all medical
and surgical work, travel by aeioplane
when called on, perform duties of magis-
trate if required, act as mining warden
and do such public health or other pro-
fessional work as may be necessary. He
must be a man of many parts who go^s
to Marble Bar.
* * * *
“Derrot”: An example of red-tape—
the victim calls it “crimson \ ns °'
lence”- —from the Canberra pigeonhole
to which N.T. affairs are consigned A
cobber of mine left a good job in Sydney
to sweat through the wet season in Dar-
win-on defence work. Two of his six
children are within the age-limits which
permit him to receive child endowment,
and for that he applied. A form “for
use by applicants for child endowment
in respect of children other than orphan
and adapted-children” was filled in to
the effect that'“l do solemnly and sin-
cerely declare that I am the father of
the. children named hereunder.” A J.P.
witnessed the thing and it was posted to
Canberra. Back it came with a note to
the effect that my cobber had failed to
“solemnly and sincerely declare that. I-'
am married/’ • ; : - ...
" ; t,...:* ■ ") *y . 5 i* *
. VClayfieldV: Death has taken, in
Canon D.J.. Garland, one :of the best-
known and: most energetic men in
.Queensland. He., collapsed after- celebrat-
ing communion , in his -parish ..church in
Brisbane. The last of the old-time bearded ,
clergy of the. North, the canon was a
Dublin man whb began his chujcch minis- '
tra.tions at Perth'(W. A.) in ’92; arid rose to
1 be' registrar and secretary of'Perth diocese
and‘a canon, of Perth Cathedral. Just
-after -the S’African war, he went to
North Queensland' diocese fas-adminis-"
'trator, arid landed in Brisbane in 1907. He
became Rural Dean of Brisbane,.but.his
activities touched many phases of public
life—New-Settlers’, Bible in State Schools,■
spcialorganisation of Boggo-road Gaol
and, after he returned from a sojourn in
Palestine with the A.I.F. —where he
earned some antiquarian .eclat -by his
rescue of relics, qf the tomb of r St,
George—all r soldiers’ movements. "He,
- was ‘ the ; first secretary of J the Anzac
Memorial Fund and the main author of
the ritual; witlr which Anzac Day is cele-
:brated in Brisbane. . - -
, • * ■,* . * •. -• • ‘ .I*. ; * L
“Dominic”: On the South Westral.i.an
coast 1 struck an ancient .beachcomber
with an idea worth a fortune. He had
got a lease of a small.island and was
about to transform it into a; pleasure
resort, his big idea being caves furnished
with whales’ bones. “Plenty of them
about,” he assured me —“whole shiploads
left from the days when whalers worked
this coast.” He was right. Prospecting
the islands south from Fremantle we
found any quantity of cetacean relics —
and certainly the bleached sections of
vertebrae held possibilities in the way
of chairs, stools arid even tables. A
supply of vertebrae secured —transported
anything up to five miles —he visualised
the construction of an archway of rib
and jaw bones. Too big to be taken
aboard, these we towed behind. The
archway built, the caves furnished,
everything was ready for the visitors.
Unhappily, they failed to arrive. When
last seen the ancient was using the
archway as stove fuel—being lull ot oil,
whalebone burns readily. He was stil
waiting the rush of trippers, but in the
meantime had penguins, fish, the pension
—and whalebones. What did he care,
anyway?
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Pedal wireless sets in-
stalled "and maintained by the Australian
Inland Mission have played an outstand-
ing part in stabilising and encouraging
settlement in Australia’s Far North. For
years, too, they gave the P.M.G. a sub-
stantial revenue for telegrams sent to and
from their distributing links with the out-
side world at ordinary telegraph rates.
When the department took them all over
from September 1, its first action was to
raise the telegram rates to radio figure
2s for the first 16 words and Hd. for
each additional word. Installation and
upkeep have cost it nothing, and its huge
yearly profits from exorbitant postage
rates show up such action as a particu-
larly mean sort of grab at the last pos-
sible ha’penny. Truly a'curious way of
encouraging settlement of our W.O.
Spaces.-. ’• ■ - J
? .. r *£. . A ,., r . , w .. ♦ .
“Mt. Sturt”: Alice Springs, over. 1000
miles from Adelaide, sent some of its
cattle as usual to the judging .rings at the
Show. ‘ r Larry Rosenbaum, whose place
is 80 miles west of the Centraliart capital,
got the best results. Against the coastal
and grain-area competition, he won the
first and second prizes for steers under
three years, second prize for steers under
two; arid special ribbon for the best Short •
horn steer. : iMeariwhile, c the Springs is
booming. Eight new cottages, are going
up. Tbe.town Has amew store, and a new
pub, gaol, hospital, apd three more stores
are in contemplation.
*•* * * *
“Clayfield” on some of Brisbane’s
favorite.statuary:—,’
To' cope’ with the ever-growing flood of
Government documents, part of Brisbane’s
Government Printing Office will have three
storeys added to ■ it. They are building them
on .the river side, where Percy Deane and his
army went over the top to capture the con-
scription “Hansard” which Theodore and
McCormack had printed to evade W. M.
Hughes’s * censorship in' 1917. The George
street ■ fapade will remain untouched, with
Anthony Cumming’s imps intact. Anthony was
Government Printer before and during the war.
He had - a Captain• Kettle beard and a Scot-
tish sense of humor which played even on
politicians, of whom he had no fear. So when
the G. P. Office was built and he had a
Minister who looked • like Mephistopheles incar-
nate —Barlow was really the mildest and kindest
of men—he decided to immortalise him by
portraying him as & printer’s devil. Barlow is
long dead, but his twin effigies squat on each
side of the main printing-house door, and
when Teddy VIII. was in Brisbane, Cumming
decorated them—one with a winking red globe
in the port eye on the port side, one with a
winking green globe in the starboard eye on
the starboard side. It was quite the most
popular feature of the metropolitan decora-
tions, and the royal visitor was mobbed one
evening when taking friends along to give them
a private view. Jim Philp remembered their
inventor’s printing office in verse as a place
.... from which the godly flee
When they hear the printer’s devils cursing back
at Anthony.
The last line was a tribute to Mr. Cumming’s
rhetoric.


LYSAGHTS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
■
iw>«i <nii inimiwmii^ji&aii
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHTS" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
New Blowfly Dressing.
“Bungaree”: Experiments at Trangie
(N.S.W.) Experiment Farm have shown
good results from the use of a zinc sul-
phate blowfly dressing, though it is ad-
mitted that no “ideal” dressing has yet
been found. That, it is stated, should
(1) keep without changing chemically or
physically; (2) be easy to prepare and
apply, with good penetrating and wetting
powers ; (3) destroy maggots and assist
healing; (4) protect against re-strike;
(5) not scald or irritate skin ; and (6)
be inexpensive.
Further the “ideal” dressing should not
stain or damage wool. Many wool-
growers make up their own dressings with
a view to finding something cheaper than
those on the market. Many fail chiefly
because they cause irritation. It is all
right to say that it is better to scald the
skin than to let the sheep die from
maggots, but such dressings are apt to
leave a hard scab which lends itself to
re-strike.
In the early experiments at Trangie,
whale oil was used in the zinc sulphate
dressing, but was discarded because of
its irritating properties and its habit of
separating from the emulsion. Carbon
tetrachloride also has slight irritating
effect, but attempts to reduce its quan-
tity in the dressing had to be abandoned
as the larva-killing value was similarly
weakened.
Constituents of the dressing are:
Sulphate of zinc .. . . .. lOoz.
Powdered starch . . .. .. 4oz.
Carbon tetrachloride .. .. Boz.
Water .. .. .. .. 7 pints
Dissolve the zinc sulph. in the water, add
the starch and heat gently until starch is
dissolved and mixture becomes like thin
jelly. When cool, mix in the carbon tet.
thoroughly. Owing to its high specific
gravity, carb. tet. has a tendency to settle
if the mixture stands for any length of
time, so the dressing should be well
shaken before using.
Sheep Worms and Wet Weather.
“J.R.D.”: In those districts in N.S.W.
and Victoria where there have been
steady winter rains, worm troubles are
likely. Conditions have been ideal for
the spread of worms, but there has been
such an abundance of feed that sheep
have held their condition without show-
ing the usual signs of worminess.
Since the rains started, pastures have
become steadily contaminated with worm
eggs and larvae. A ewe with only a light
infestation of the large stomach worm
may pass 1,500,000 eggs per day in her
droppings. This worm and the black
scour worm are the most dangerous at
the present time, and no time should be
lost in drenching.
Young sheep will be affected first, par-
ticularly lambs that are being weaned.
If sheep of any age do not appear to be
doing as well as they ought, give them
bluestone and nicotine sulphate. Drench
lambs when they are being weaned, and
turn them into a paddock that has been
spelled from sheep, otherwise they will
continue to pick up fresh infestation.
In the Riverina, in particular, there
should be urgent precautions. Recent
post-mortems of sheep there in fair con-
dition disclosed a degree of worm infes-
tation that in a normal season would be
enough to kill any sheep.
Remember drenching must be thor-
ough, and that it is a preventive rather
than a cure. Drenching and pasture man-
agement go hand in hand ; in fact, under
good management the need for drench-
ing is reduced considerably.
Beef Technique.
“Mookau”: The war will likely mean
the temporary dropping of plans to de-
velop the zebu breed in Australia —no
bad thing. British beef breeds are already
showing themselves capable of coping
with the dry country. Alice Springs
Shorthorns were outstanding at the Adel-
aide Fat Stock Show —prize steers sold
at up to £lB.
Where experiment is needed is with
pasture improvement in some of these
“You can take your ferret ’ ome, Dave.”
marginal areas. The bulk of the country
is breeding and grazing country pure and
simple, but the patches which now fatten
for market could be much improved
through the introduction of artificial
grasses and pastures. Sub. clover might
well be tried on some of the areas round
the Palm Valley and further north in
pockets on the Adelaide and Roper
rivers ; possibly on the Macarthur and
the Limmen.
The idea might be laughed at. There
also was laughter when a lamb industry
based on s.c. was first mooted in W.A.
Then there are large areas in south-
eastern Queensland where carrying capa-
city could be built up with modern
methods. These districts are devoted to
fattening, but the practice is to buy
mature stores and top them off as full-
weight animals with the idea that there
are fewer beasts to handle and that ex-
pense per 1001 b. is less for grown than
for immature cattle.
It is poor logic. When the market is
weak, the young animal always wins
both on price and demand. The profit to
the fattener is in the amount of meat he
puts on to each animal. Therefore,
though stores when bought and sold may
be infinitely heavier than steers in grow-
ing condition, more steers than stores can
be bought for the same amount of money.
And each of the steers may put on as
much new meat as each of the grown
stores.
The youngsters will fatten quicker, lay-
ing on flesh at the same time. And prices
per pound for baby beef are always
higher than for mature beef.
Balancing the Ration.
“Zedo”: Proteins provide nitrogen,
carbon and sulphur in the ration, and, as
dried blood or beef is about one-seventh
nitrogen, proteins are the flesh- and
muscle-formers, that portion not needed
for this purpose helping to form fats.
Carbohydrates and fats are not substi-
tutes for protein, though protein can
substitute for them.
Different proteins have different
values and give different acid reactions.
Variety is needed. Nitrogenous food,
too, has different digestible qualities at
different stages of growth. Clover-hay
before flowering has been rated at over
70 p.c. nitrogen digestibility. After
flowering, cattle digest less than 60 p.c.
Oil cakes are the richest protein foods
—cottonseed cake carries up to 40 p.c.
crude proteins, linseed-cake about 30
p.c. Brewers’ grains, dried shoots from
sprouting barley, and beans and peas are
heavily proteinised. Bran has about
12 p.c., lucerne-hay about 14 p.c., the
cereals round about 10 p.c.
Fats and oils and carbohydrates are
closely related in their functions. Carbo-
hydrates—the starches —have no nitrogen.
Their carbon, oxygen and hydrogen
produce heat and energy, and surpluses
create reserve fats.
The oils and fats differ from carbo-
hydrates only in balance of chemical
composition—they contain less oxygen
and hydrogen and carbon. They vary in
their power to create warmth and to
form fat.
Wheat and maize are richest in
starches —about 70 p.c. carbohydrates;
bran and beans have about 50 p.c., ordi-
nary meadow-hay about 45 p.c., cereal
straws 35 p.c., oil cakes from 30 to 35 p.c.
Oil seeds are the richest in fats—
linseed about 34 p.c., oil cakes about
10 p.c., oats and maize 8 p.c. and bran
4 p.c.
There are many factors besides quantity
to be considered in determining the
ration. Different animals have different
digestible capacity. A ruminant may
digest over 80 p.c. of the nitrogen con-
tent of lucerne-hay, while a horse will
digest only 70 to 73 p.c. The relative
quantities will be over 70 p.c. and 45
p.c. of carbohydrates and fats for
ruminants, and only 70 p.c. and 14 p.c.
for horses. Pigs get the most out of
root crops—Dennis will take 84 p.c.
protein and 98 p.c. of carbohydrates out
of potatoes, while ruminants will take
»roughly only 45 and 90 p.c. But rumi-
nants can handle fibre much better than
either Dennis or Dobbin.
Banana Marketing.
“Tumbi”: The banana may appear the
most foolproof of fruits ; it isn’t.
Once bananas are cut exposure to sun
even for a short time will do serious
damage. Cutting should be done early,
and the fruit should be carried straight to
the shed. There it should “drain” after
dehanding.
Hands should be taken off where the
fingers join the main stalk. A narrow,
sharp knife is needed—a well-worn-down
butcher’s knife with plenty of bend in it.
To prepare for “single” pack, grasp the
cluster tightly at the stem end with both
hands, and twist one hand backward and
the other forward. The fruit comes off
without damage. fruit end-
ways leads to peeling. In cluster-packing,
work on a basis of twos.
In packing for southern markets, take
care that no bunches are sent which have
begun to show ripening color. They are
likely to arrive as pulp.
When pack is completed, place cases
in a cool shady spot and on their sides.
And be gentle in loading in the trucks.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: Don’t put young dairy
heifers on hill country unless the pastures
have been topdressed annually with
super, to remedy mineral deficiency. If
the heifers are run on flogged-out
pasture they will have no chance to
develop, and will become liable to bone
chewing, sterility and other troubles.
Topdressing encourages the clovers in


BE COOL THIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS
Suit your footwear to the
weather. Do away with tired
feet in the Summertime by
wearing SANDALS.
They’re serviceable and com-
fortable, just the things for
coolness and ease. And as they
are ABBEY SANDALS they
will give long-time wear.
IB'ii
BLACK
OR BROWN.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
SSwwSSSy*
mmi l
m
Me *
B*2
S*!*
i-i,\
v .
slop Him
WITH A BIG SIX
ELECTRIC FENCER
SAVE
80 %
On Fence Costs!
No farm can be considered com-
plete to-day unless it is equipped
with an electric fence. It isn’t
only that it saves 80 p.c. on the
cost of ordinary fencing, but it
actually teaches animals to respect
all wire fences, and soon cures the
most persistent fence-breaker of
the habit. Think what this
means in fewer injuries from barb-
wire cuts to valuable stock and the
saving in cost of repairs to
fences.
Temporary or permanent pad-
docks, subdivisions, shade en-
closures, laneways, breeding or
exercise pens, fodder storage
enclosures, market gardens,
orchards, &c., can be fenced off
and made stockproof wherever
and whenever you want them—
at trifling cost—ond with little
trouble.
One charger controls 25 miles
of stockproof fencing, and one
man can fence up to 20 acres
a day!
£9'9'-
GUARANTEED FOR 5 YEARS
Complete with 50 Insulators
and Battery. HO EXTRAS.
jEBSbm
810 SIX
ELECTRIC FENCE CHARGER
The Neiv and Improved
BIG SIX
See it at
DANKS'
Bourke-st.
Showrooms
Call or Write for Descriptive Folder.
Victorian Distributors:
&&
Of KO
pry, t_~r ld.
BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. M 2381
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHEHE
H. A. ROSE & CO. LTD., King St„ Sydney
fluffy!vlleßtiL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
FROM FACTORY
Fresfi • Fragranf
TOBACCO
AT NEW LOW PRICES/
Smokers !
Enjoy the World's Best
Empire-grown Tobaccos
These beautiful smoking blends give that extra
satisfaction and coolness which makes all the
difference. Made from the finest Empire-grown
leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct| from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Postage Free in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other States.
COMBINED GROWERS'
12 COMMERCIAL RD„ VALLEY, BRISBANE.
the pasture, thus achieving a balanced
ration and ensuring healthy stock.
“Mt. Boppy”: Make sure that horses
are well fed at night before they are
turned into a paddock of green barley,
A good plan is to cut an armful of green,
barley for each horse, and feed it every
night for a week before turning into the
paddock. This accustoms them to the
greenstuff, but even then some may
sutler from digestive dis rdeis or
louftder.
“Goulburn”: Treat cockspur and
similar weeds by spraying with a mixture
of lib. of arsenic, lib. of washing soda
and three gallons of water. After spray-
ing, keep the area closed to stock for
at least five weeks. Cultivate infested
land where practicable, and mow the
cockspur before it seeds. Burning-off
helps to destroy seed on rough country,
by sowing pasture mixtures and top-
dressing them with at least of
superphosphate per acre every year,
cockspur can be controlled, but don't let
d seed.
“Ghanam”: Figures issued by the
National Woolbrokers’ Council show an
increase to 1,126,000 bales for the three
months ended September 30, against
942,000 bales for the same period last
year. There have been substantial in-
creases in every State except S.A., where
there has been a reduction of 30,000
bales. The sales during the three months
were only 11,767 bales, plus 10,000 bales
of carryover wool. Last year in the
same period, 235,000 bales of new and
88,000 bales from the previous year’s
clip were dealt with. Including 1938-39
wool, the appraisers now at work on the
first portions of the clip have over
1,215,000 bales to deal with. The first
London appraisement sale began on
October 16.
“Yarrunga”: F. H. Reynolds, of Old-
bury, Moss Vale (N.S.W.), who won the
Berrima district section of the R.A.S.
grassland management competition for
owners of more than 1000 acres, has
greatly improved the sheep-carrying capa-
city of the 1075-acre holding. Of 920
acres classed as “impossible” 582 acres
are under permanent pasture of perennial
rye, cocksfoot and red and white clover,
which receives annual topdressings of
lcwt. super. The equivalent of 2500
sheep are carried. Oldbury has a historic
link with the earliest pasture work in
Australia. It was on this property in
1820 that James Atkinson, author of
Agriculture and Grazing in New South
Wales (1826), began experimenting with
“nearly all the English grasses and
clovers” and laid down permanent pas-
tures. Their principal use was as pasture
for sheep, but hay made from the grasses
sold at £9 to £lO a ton in Sydney. A
difficulty was experienced in procuring
good seed, and Atkinson advised settlers
to grow their own, beginning with small
plots.
“Pappamosca”: The holdup in the
export of Danish ham and bacon to Eng-
land is enough to set Australian advo-
cates of the pig weeping. For years they
have been struggling to show the extent
of the market which could be captured in
Britain, and now when the opportunity
comes we haven’t sufficient pig meat to
take advantage of it. Denmark, with an
area about the size of a couple of big
northern stations, and with a dairy trade
comparable with our own, has 3i times
as many pigs as Australia, and turns off
enough in the year to do an export trade
worth £16,000,000 sterling. The job is
done by modern quick turnover methods
and a ruthless insistence on a standard
pig. The Commonwealth should learn
its lesson.
“J. Want”: N. S. Wales Agricultural
Department recommends red clover as
a rotational pasture and hay crop in
coastal regions, particularly where
maize or other grains are to be sown
later. It not only makes good grazing,
but, if allowed to stand for a couple of
years, is a fine .soil-improver. It passes
its best stage in the first year. In the
year following, it begins to go off, and
as a four-year-old it is finished. Experi-
ments have shown that, when ploughed-
in on heavy basalt soils in New England,
it is followed by doubled hay and grain
crops.
“A.A.D.”; Estimated at 4,425,400 acres
for grain, the N.S.W. wheat crop is ex-
pected to yield a harvest “comparable
with the average of some years past.”
The last ten averaged 12.7 bushels. The
sowing was 8.3 p.c. less than in 1938, and
probably the 268,800 acres intended for
hay will be exceeded, as extensive areas
of frost-damaged crops have been cut
for hay, and to a lesser extent for silage.
The acreage shortage is almost entirely
in the central-west and eastern Riverina,
owing to excessive rains retarding and pre-
cluding sowing. The harvest prospect on
the whole is as good as at this stage last
year, when heavy crops in the north-west
and the south-western slopes contrasted
with extensive failures in the central
plains and western Riverina. To what
extent frost and waterlogging are taking
toll of the current crop is yet a matter
of conjecture It may exceed the drought
levy of last season.
“J.W.”: Prices have been fixed for
hides and skins at about 20 p.c. above
September ruling rates for hides and 15
p.c. for small skins. Hides, average
301 b., are fixed at 9|d. max., and 91b. to
121 b. calf skins cannot be sold above
llid.
“Yanco”: Bencubbin has shown a
remarkable resistance to frost damage on
the Murrumbidgee (N.S.W.) irrigation
areas and in Narrandera and other dis-
tricts to the south. H. J. Dargin, divi-
sional agricultural instructor, advises that
Bencubbin crops growing alongside other
varieties badly affected, and at the same
stage of maturity, remained untouched.
In many inspections he was unable to
find a frosted plant of this variety. This
seeming immunity contrasted with num-
erous crops promising heavy yields, which
were so severely hit that they were being
cut for hay.
“Fed. II”: It is not easy to distinguish
between take-all and footrot in wheat,
but the crust on the stem is a good guide.
In footrot the base of the straw is usually
discolored ; in take-all there is a fungus
crust round the base, sometimes black,
sometimes dark-brown, but always easily
flaked off. When the crust is scraped off
the straw will be found to be freckled
or streaked with black.
“Kaloa”: Tea went up 3d. per pound
last week. Why can’t we grow a bit
ourselves? There are numerous Aus-
tralian plants which belong to the same
family. Of course, with both tea and
coffee, labor is the difficulty, as Queens-
landers who turned out excellent coffee
years ago learnt to their cost. Some oh
the finest coffee in the world used to
grow round the Blackall Range, north
of Brisbane, but its history as a com-
mercial plant was short. New Guinea
might do the job successfully. The
climate and rainfall of the highlands
strongly resemble those of Ceylon, and
there are scads of maries round the vil-
lages who would be better employed
getting their pictures on tea labels than
at their present occupation watching
pigs.
“Hog”: The wild-pig problem may
shortly be solved in far N.Q. Mrs. A.
W. Anderson, of Sydney, who took over
the Karumba meatworks early this year,
proposes to experiment with 1000 wild
grunters for export. The Gulf country
is overrun with wild pigs, their only com-
mercial value Is. 6d. a scalp as a station
pest.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 41d. per line;
all others at 2|<L per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published are not disqualified.
A human document from Tasmania earns double rates this week.
Father and Son, Farmers
My husband is in the late thirties and
works very hard on his father’s farm.
Father lives with an unmarried sister in
the old homestead, we live in a cot-
tage not far away. My husband does
practically all the managing of the men,
attends to the sheep and the heavy
tractor work, besides all the out-
side chores for both households. And
though we have been married for 10
years, we receive less money than our
unmarried ploughman!
We hear much of the heavy ex-
penses of the place—wages and fencing
and so on —but we have no idea of the
monetary return from the harvest and
lambing. We see no balance sheet, nor
do we receive any proportionate share
of the profits.
From the small monthly cheque that
my husband gets there is never the
ready money to give me a regular allow-
ance for housekeeping, let alone a dress-
ing allowance or even pin-money. The
£lOO that I saved towards my home in
my single business days has been very
useful for dressing, but has dwindled now
to nothing. Hence possibly this grouch.
Too much work with too little reward
has developed a peculiar complex in my
husband in that he refuses to have chil-
dren. This, of course, is a very real grief
to me, and I know that one day he will
regret it.
My contention is that sons working
for their fathers should be allowed to see
properly-compiled annual accounts ; then
they could shape their affairs accord-
ingly.
The letter from “Father of Ten” (B.
31/5/’39) portrays a life of financial care
and hard graft, but one rewarded with
the love and interest of a family; and it
was a happy life.
My advice to all young men who have
been brought up on the land and who
wish to continue to be farmers is to try,
if possible, to obtain a small farm of
their own. It is better to sink or swim
independently than to feel that you are
being unfairly treated for years. At any
rate, for the sake of one’s wife and
family, some definite mutual understand-
ing as regards finance should be
arrived at with parents before settling
down. Going on day by day expecting
to be better off sometime is no good.
When something turns up it is usually
too late to help achieve any youthful
ambition. — Anonymous (Tas.).
Whose War Is It?
With a couple of sons breaking their
necks to enlist before they are of the
minimum age, and having with others
won the war to end war in 1914-18 and
thus made the world safe for democracy,
once and for all, I scanned with interest
the list of exemptions, a full newspaper
page of classes.
It was at once obvious to me that we
intend to talk Hitler out of this war, for
with all the exemptions operative there
will be nobody left but members of
Parliament. Why can’t we have a little
of the spirit of Anzac? In my old war
it was the general rule to look on a lead-
swinger, base head, malingerer, ticket-
worker—call him what you will —as
something beneath the contempt of a
fighting man. Soft jobs and base posi-
tions were turned down in my unit with
monotonous regularity, so much so that
as late as 1918 the battery commander
couldn’t get a single volunteer for one
of the cushy jobs at the base.
An idea of the kind of work
we preferred may be gained by consider-
ing the fact that I was one of three sig-
nallers left on their feet out of 23 who
started in the battle that was then raging.
If somebody had shown that mob the
full page of a newspaper setting out the
classes exempt from having a lick at the
enemy they’d have laughed so loud that
Fritz would have been stunned by the
noise, and the war would have been over.
Perhaps those who drew up the exemp-
tions never heard of all the coves who ran
away from hospital, where they were
being cured of their wounds, to stow
away on troopships and thus get back
to Gallipoli to have another go at Jacko.
Somebody ought to creep up to Federal
Parliament House and explain to the mob
there that there was such a thing
one time as universal training, and
that most tacticians in the military
sense demand as the first requisite for
defeating the enemy some soldiers. The
motto for Australia should be “One in,
all in.”—' Two-Em (N.S.W.).
After the War
We must resolve now that old mistakes
will not be repeated. The spending boom
that followed the last war was just as
much a contributing cause of the finan-
cial slump as the war itself. We must
plan ahead to the day when we shall
have to pay the expenses incurred in the
present conflict. We shall not be able to
take over any colonies from Germany
this time.
There will be another long leap along
the path of “progress” once the Crop of
new developments in science and indus-
try which every war brings forth are
turned to a peace-time use. We must
make every endeavor to accommodate
those who may be unable to accustom
themselves to their new surroundings.
And we must see that special legisla-
tions and taxes introduced as necessary
during war-time are repealed as soon
as possible after peace is restored —
especially where they become an unneces-
sary interference with individual free-
dom.
But, above all, the peoples must pre-
pare to ask some pertinent questions. We
must ask those who control our destiny
how it is that finance which was so sadly
lacking when it was needed to provide
work and comfort during peace-time
should be immediately forthcoming when
funds are needed for the unproductive
business of war. — Ques Tion (N.S.W.).
Air Raids
Anne Bullen’s estimate (B. 4/10/’39)
of the small danger to this country from
air raids may be correct, but only because
of the long distance to be travelled by
raiders. I, too, have been in air raids,
both in England and the back areas of
France, and felt only bored; but 1 have
also been in air raids on railheads and
ammunition dumps where my immediate
vicinity was the object of a series of pro-
longed and determined (and successful)
attacks. On these occasions I wasn’t
bored —just hopeful.
That was over 20 years ago. In those
days I carried in an antiquated two-seater
140-h.p. machine 12 201 b. Cooper bombs,
so what is to prevent a present-day
machine from carrying “gas bombs
weighing from 2501 b. to 30001 b.”? —
ihough, incidentally, they would be more
likely to carry 300 weighing 101 b. each.
I have no patience with the fashion
of belittling risks from the air. In the
early stages of the war the air forces
will be directed against purely military
objectives—munition works, railway
junctions, ships, troop concentrations,
etc., for aeroplanes and bombs are too
precious to be used in ways which do not
have the effect of crippling the enemy’s
striking power. Nobody wants to use
gas. Both sides are well aware of the
frightful consequences which would fol-
low, but nothing is more certain than
when the war enters its later desperate
stage gas will be used. The bombs have
already been manufactured: the abnor-
mal imports of arsenic alone point to
this; so I don't see any cause for
optimism.
If we have reason to expect that the
present immunity conferred by distance
may not last, then it is time to get busy
and construct the only effective protec-
tion against gas—shelters in which the
air pressure is artificially maintained
slightly higher than atmospheric pressure.
Anything else is futile.
Personally, I don’t think Australia will
have to face this horror, so I agree with
Anne Bullen —but not for the reasons
she gives.—J. N. Rookledge (N.S.W.).
Propaganda
I agree with Arthur Falk (B. 16/8/’39)
in his denunciation of a suggested Min-
istry of Propaganda for Australia.
The average Australian, although not
phlegmatic, is a most unexcitable person,
and is by no means easily impressed or
persuaded. His character and manner
(so well exemplified in the war-time
“Digger spirit”) show him to be a fellow
who detests boasting, exaggeration and
artificiality. Just imagine an Australian
Goebbels endeavoring to lash an Aus-
tralian audience into a frenzy of national
zeal! The Australian does not verbally
flaunt his loyalty, but when the occasion
demands he demonstrates it.
The German Propaganda Ministry with
its policy of hate has done more to in-
crease national zeal and love of democ-
racy in the Dominions than anything
else.
No! Rather than a Ministry for Pro-
paganda let us have a Ministry for Pro-
pagation in order that the Australian
species may be propagated throughout
the empty spaces in this country. —
E. D. M. (Q.).
Moscow’s Ally
It was expected that the U.S.S.R., hav-
ing betrayed England and made it pos-
sible for Germany to invade Poland,
would itself be eager to share in the
spoils. That has now been realised, and
the unfortunate Ukrainians and White
Russians are to come beneath the Red
yoke. For the German invasion we de-
clared war, and, though it is possible that
the Russian perfidy will not bring a
further declaration, it gives Australia a
legitimate reason for outlawing the Com-
munist party.— Pip (M.L.).
See Australia First
Some friends, left a fortune, immedi-
ately acquired an overwhelming desire to
travel.
Although they had barely ventured be-
yond the city gates during their entire
lifetime, their first thoughts were to visit
London, Noo Yark and, of course, glam-
orous Hollywood. That they had a splen-
did opportunity of becoming better
acquainted with their own beautiful ex-
pansive continent never entered their
minds, and unhappily their attitude is
consonant with that of lottery winners,
society people and others who have the
wherewithal necessary for extensive
travel.
“See Australia First” is a national
motto the Australian people should,
whenever possible, put into practice.—
Peter Piper (N.S.W.).
Do Your Own Thinking
These days I often think of the’ Irish-
man who, upon arrival in a new land,
remarked, “Is there a Government in this
country? Well, I’m agin it.” It seems
to me that Governments, forced by in-
fluential supporters, are the cause of
many of our troubles and disasters. Who
of the ordinary working world of any
country wanted war or has any ill-feeling
towards the nationals of other lands?
As an old bushman I have hobnobbed
with individuals of all races, creeds and
colors, and found that they are mostly
good fellows.
We are constituted too much like
sheep or fowls ; we must either rush with
the mob or crow with the rooster. Yet,
individually, we are really quite different
and amenable to reason. Too many of
us allow the top-dogs to do our thinking
and blindly follow. It may be a news-
paper, a politician, a reformer or a stump
orator ; we accept their ideas and imagine
them our own. I believe if the world
could be under one central control, under
one Government composed of a few
elected members from each country, we
would perhaps become sane and live and
let live. I also feel sure it would greatly
help if we each did our own thinking and
refused to accept others’ ideas as our
own. — Charles House (Q.).
The Pioneers’ Sins
There is a lot of horse-sense in what
“Eureka” said about the pioneers (B.
20/9/’39), but he wasn’t one of tjiem.
I was.
I helped to pioneer the Dorrigo
fN.S.W.) scrub at the end of last century.
To be sure, we chopped down and burnt
all the scrub timbers, including silky oak,
sassafras, red and white beech and rose-
wood. But not cedar—that had been
skinned tong before the scrub was thrown
open for mass selection. We had to
clear in order to get the grass in. A
neighbor of mine who had about 40 acres
of “plain” on his block fenced it with a
post-and-rail fence of best silky oak
(“prickly ash” was its local name) which
would be worth a lot of money to-day.
He had no money for wire.
We didn’t leave shelter belts to stop
wind and erosion because any scrub trees
left standing blew down and killed stock
and people, being so shallow-rooted (sas-
safras excepted). I tried to sell my trees
(including beech and rosewood) in Syd-
ney. The best offer I could get was 10s.
per 100 super, feet at the Bellinger wharf.
The local bullockies charged more than
that to draw it, the road down the moun-
tain being so hazardous. We shot scrub-
turkeys and pigeons galore; we had to.
They were the only meat we could get
outside of tinned stuff, which cost famine
prices. We poisoned the scrub wallabies
wholesale; if we didn’t they ate every
blade of rye or cocksfoot (as well as our
maize and pumpkins) as fast as it came
up. We roofed our little houses with
shingles split from beautiful kauri logs,
iron being out of the question. To ask
us to save our country for posterity while
the storekeeper was asking payment for
his bill would have merely provoked
derision.
Exactly the same process had gone on
on the Bellinger (and all the other rivers)
a half-century before. To get river flats
under maize so that pioneers could live
millions of magnificent hardwoods and
brush trees were ruthlessly destroyed, and
the native fauna went the same way. But,
“Eureka,” don’t blame the pioneers;
blame the conditions they were working
under.—K9 (N.S.W.).
Supplemented 1 Wages
Employers have been asked by the
Government to make up to the usual rate
the pay of those employees who are called
up for militia training. Some who have
objected have been severely criticised.
One of the first acts of our Government
after the declaration of war was to raise
company tax to 2s. in the £, and before
this war is over it will be still higher.
Why, then, objectors argue, should the
companies, large and small, be asked to
contribute further by supplementing their
employees’ wages, in addition to paying
for temporary assistants?
It is true that if they are contributing
sufficiently there should be no extra call
upon them; but, if not, then a high tax
on profits should be introduced at once.
This war is a Government affair, and for
it the Government must pay. The present
Bs. per day is insufficient for a man with
dependants, and so it must be increased
to an amount which is sufficient, the extra
cost being met by taxing company profits
and by annexing part of those large divi-
dends which exist only because men are
prepared to fight. The supplementary
system looks fine on paper, but in prac-
tise it is penalising the employee and the
small proprietor.
In the present system there are too
many loose ends left, and too many loop-
holes for evasion, and before men are
victimised the Government should
shoulder its full responsibility.— Pip
(Vic.).
Our Friend the Railways
Once more the N. S. Wales Commis-
sioner for Railways has presented the
people with a bill —for £1,171,522, and
there seems to be little more than a
murmur.
The N. S. Wales railways already enjoy
facilities for providing service which
would stagger any non-monopolistic
organisation. If, for example, I want a
piano delivered to anywhere beyond a
50-mile radius the carrier has to charge
additional to his price an amount which
goes to the railways. The same impost
is inflicted if I take a taxi.
By rail it is impossible to travel to
Bathurst and back to Sydney in one day
—a distance of 125 miles in each direc-
tion. By car the return journey takes
about six hours’ comfortable driving.
With few exceptions, it is impossible to
travel to places more than 30 miles from
Sydney after six at night. Any effort
to live away from the city—in spite of
the high fares —is foiled by the Railway
Department. I intended to build a house
near Hawkesbury River, but I couldn’t
get home unless I left before 6.20 p.m.
from Central, and I couldn’t reach Syd-
ney before 3.30 p.m. unless I left the
Hawkesbury by 9.30 in the morning.
Similar restrictions apply on most
outer suburban lines, and the country
services could be improved enormously.
Politicians see that the Canberra service
is adequate, but what other concern in the
world would give the equivalent of two
trains to Melbourne within an hour and


then nothing for 23 hours? And, above
all, why does Mn Hartigan sit in an air-
conditioned office telling newspapermen
that the people do not want air-condi-
tioned trains?
Freed of all competition, the railways
still can’t pay, because they won’t provide
service and adopt business methods or
realise that travel is the same as any
other commodity—it has to be sold. —
Puff Puff (N.S.W.).
Are We Extravagant? -
It is often said that the average Aus-
tralian is extravagant, and if the tag were
applied to his Governments the charge
could scarcely be cavilled at. Attributed
to the ordinary working man, it’s a gross
libel.
According to figures supplied by the
Commonwealth Statistician, considerably
more than three-quarters of the wage-
earners here receive the bare basic wage
or a very narrow margin above it. That
leaves little scope for prodigal spending.
Indeed, when we consider the high cost
of living in this country the Australian’s
thrift is remarkable.
Take four typical industrial suburbs of
Melbourne. In each, the inhabitants can
boast of more than one million pounds
in their respective branches of the savings
bank. Also, a generous percentage of
fixed deposits held by local trading banks
consists of “nest-eggs” of five pounds and
upwards lodged by workers.
Life insurance is synonymous with
thrift, and our leading life offices owe an
appreciable amount of their assets to the
“coupla-bob-a-weekers.”
The average Aussie does think of the
rainy day, so for Heaven’s sake give him
a little more money to play with before
calling him a spendthrift.— Melton
(Vic.).
Milk
I saw an advertisement in the Sydney
press of the “opening” by the Lord
Mayor of a new milk-processing plant,
costing many thousands ; declared object,
the prevention of contamination reach-
ing the public from tubercular cows. It
is, of course, on the face of it, cheaper
to lend the Lord Mayor for half an hour
for a bit of pomp and ceremony for the
boosting of a private business than to
spend money decontaminating the herds,
so that the people’s milk shall come to
them pure and with its food value beyond
question.
The completion of the ironic circle is
provided by the continued sale of milk
from the unprotected taps of milkearts
into jugs in the open street. Truly Syd-
ney is a city of delightful inconsistencies.
—P. M. (N.S.W.).
Sportsmen
Nowadays no one worries about the
moral attributes or sense of fairplay that
once distinguished the true sportsman.
The modern conception is often a vulgar,
talkative cove who indulges in overpriced
horseflesh and racing cars, or who speeds
through the country shooting as many
harmless animals as possible. To hear
our radio commentators gushing over
some of these fine “sportsmen” is to
realise how much the term has lost its
original meaning.
It is ridiculous that deference is paid
to these people; but if they must be
singled out why not call them “sports”?
That term is explanatory enough, and
has no derogatory implication. But let
us reserve “sportsman” for the person
who has qualified for that designation.—
J. H. Farnham (Vic.).
Save Our Metals
“The world’s usage of metals during
the past 30 years has been greater than
during the whole of the preceding cen-
tury.”
I cannot question or verify that state-
ment from the press, but I’ll accept the
principle and add that, at the same rate
of consumption, the first half of the twen-
tieth century will have gobbled up more
of the earth’s irreplaceable ores than all
its 19 predecessors.
One of the most tragic aspects of
modem war and war preparations is this
criminal wastage of metals. And not only
is war to blame —added to the immense
necessary toll of modern industry are the
heavy inroads made by the needless sub-
stitution of metals for wood in furniture,
buildings, vehicles, etc. Timbers whose
tensile strength has, in many known cases,
resisted centuries of wear and decay, and
even fire and shot, are not good enough
for office chairs, filing cabinets and a
hundred other transient uses ■ nor noble
enough to be used except as veneers and
panelling in buildings that will be out-
moded and pulled down in a couple of
generations.
Our roads swarm with “all-steel”
family-sized cars, most of them bearing
a solitary occupant to business or bridge
—tons of precious iron and steel multi-
plied a millionfold throughout the world,
serving mainly trivial errands, and passed
on to the dump when the “new model”
appears.
It is sometimes ingeniously argued
that greater metal usage is the natural
answer to a threatened timber famine —
the irreplaceable to do service for the cul-
tivable! Have alchemists come to the
rescue of industrialists with some magic
replacement formula? We’ve become
tree-minded before it is too late, and re-
afforestation schemes are in full swing,
but there is no “stitch in time” for ore
deposits.
When Australia’s iron ore was in the
limelight recently, supplies were quoted
variously as good for up to two centuries.
The nation is reasonably safe from iron
famine for another half-dozen genera-
tions! Is that to be taken as French
leave to continue the welter? By what
right can any generation dare smugly to
close its eyes to the welfare of posterity
beyond a beggarly couple of centuries?
Had there been the same rate of usage
from the time of Captain Cook, we our-
selves might have been fishing the seabed
for salvage to make our water tanks.
This is one of the major problems of
our age, and none the less imperative be-
cause we ourselves do not have to pay
the price for refusing to face it. The
issue is economic, humanitarian and
ethical. The world’s store is not ours to
squander. We can claim no more than a
fair share with every generation that will
follow us, and we have no right to talk in
terms of 200, or even 2000, years. —
Hala (Vic.).
Publicity
In the “National Geographic Maga-
zine,” which is perhaps the best-known
of all travel magazines, one finds adver-
tisements praising the beauties of New
Zealand, South Africa, Italy, Bermuda
and many other places, yet Australia is
announced only in a small quarter-page
advertisement, and in some issues only a
single line at the foot of a shipping ad-
vertisement, which reads “To Hawaii,
New Zealand, Australia.” Is it any
wonder that overseas Australia is re-
garded with something akin to contempt,
and that travel agencies do not include
it in a “Complete World Tour”?
A costless but very proficient method
of advertising would be on our postage
stamps. America has distributed views
of the Grand Canyon, of Yosemite Falls
and scores more beauty spots through-
out the world by this method; Colombo
shows the harbor and enticing river scenes;
New Zealand displays fiords and moun-
tain scenes ; Newfoundland, Canada and
Russia all use this method of advertising.
We could use Jenolan Caves, the Blue
Mountains, Tasmania and the Flinders
ranges instead of issuing stamps that have
no propaganda value, and are of little
interest to a philatelist, let alone a
traveller.—F. B. O. (S.A.).
History and the Present
Historians of the'calibre of Trevelyan,
Breasted and Robinson all suggest that no
authoritative analysis of motives and
causes leading to war may be made until
at least 20 years after the event. Even
the egregious Mr. Roberts said in 1933 of
the Great War: “We are still so near to
it that it is well-nigh impossible to con-
sider the question impartially.” This after
a lapse of 15 years.
Three years earlier the British His-
torical Association said of the same
struggle: “The material is vast and in-
choate, the issues are far from clear and
can hardly be considered without preju-
dice and passion.”
And yet, every day, the present struggle
is analysed exhaustively by radio com-
mentators and leader-writers who foist
hastily-conceived opinions on listeners
and readers concerning motives of which
they have only a nebulous outline. The
know-all in the street, too, discourses
learnedly on causes which, as yet, remain
hidden in the slough of diplomacy and
trade rivalry.
Certainly we cannot ignore facts and
events which will affect our future lives,
but at least we can refrain from dogma-
tising on the basis of our very imperfect
and incomplete knowledge. Twenty years
hence, when partisan journalism and pro-
vocative signed articles may be placed in
their correct perspective and assessed at
their true value, we may be vouchsafed a
glimpse of the sinister forces which have
forced civilised nations into the un-
paralleled idiocy ctf armed conflict.
Until then it should be sufficient for us
to accept the fact that the ghastly busi-
ness is at hand and must of necessity be
carried through to the bitter end.
Theorising wildly at the moment is at
best mischievous and misleading—at
worst it may become definitely dangerous.
—Harry Hodge (N.S.W.).
A “Bulletin” Club
Here’s one contributor of a quarter of
a century’s standing who sincerely hopes
that a Bulletin club materialises.
Fancy coming down to Sydney for a
spell from the bush and meeting all those
picturesque and witty pen-names which
have been old friends of readers of the
Bushman’s Bible for so long! Such a
club would be an Aladdin’s Cave of
memories for most of us, and what
reminiscences a flagon and an apprecia-
tive audience would evoke!
I mind writing my first contribution
to The Bulletin in a Sydney boarding-
house, and then seeing a bearded fellow,
whom I took to be J. F. Archibald,
standing in the doorway with a stick and
a cigar as I went up the Bulletin stairs,
past the now-defunct notice “Blighted
Hopes Department” on the cubicle.
It was collected later as a dud.
The next attempt I made was on a
droving trip' on the Maranoa (Q.), with
an entry for a ballad competition. I
had better luck, as I heard afterwards
that it duly appeared on the Red Page,
though my droving duties with Cobb and
Co. prevented me from obtaining a copy
at the time.
Some years later I collected from The
Bulletin another dud in the form of a
short story. I condensed it into a
paragraph and, with it, scored on the
Abo. page. Thus encouraged, I expanded
the theme to 50,000 words and saw it as
a serial in the “Mirror.”
Down in Maoriland I was shown
proudly a framed cheque from The
Bulletin, and was told that it was the
owner’s first. He boasted that he would
never cash it, as it meant his entry into
literature.
Once, in the mud of Flanders, exasper-
ated by a horse called Joe who always
picked, the middle of a barrage in which
to lie down, I abused King, President
and Kaiser in such vivid Australian that
the sergeant-major sarcastically suggested
that I should write to The Bulletin
about it. I accepted the tip and
eventually collected the cheque.
There must be a mine of reminiscences
for such a club, and it would be to me
a family affair, for my father, his father,
myself and my son have all been con-
tributors to The Bulletin, “even unto
the third and fourth generation.”—•
Horseface (N.S.W.).
The various reasons put forth by
O.F.M. pundits for a Bulletin Club
leave me cold. The Bulletin is too well
known to need a club, while organising
to cater for the consolation of scribes
brooding over editors’ rejects seems to
me waste of good effort.
As a compromise, here is my proposi-
tion. The cause for a united Common-
wealth, minus State Parliaments, has
been ably championed by The Bulletin.
The necessity for national unity and for
elimination of waste makes war-time
ideal for launching a vigorous national-
unity offensive. Let us have the Bul-
letin Club renamed the One-Parliament
Club, and enlist therein the many
thousands throughout the Commonwealth
who rightly see in unification the only
hope for the nation’s future.
South Australians should be well repre-
sented in the first rush to join such a
club, for their Government’s blatant
example of war-time profiteering in the
form of 30-p.c.-income-tax-increase pro-
posals has convinced even the most
adamant about the preservation of State
rights that we are being grossly over-
governed at a shocking expense.— Shamus
O’Leary (S.A.).
Australian Talkies
In the days of the old “silents” Aus-
tralia was a prolific producer, with stars
of its own dishing out the “drammer” in
the best traditions of the Gish and Tal-
rnadge sisters and Theda Bara.
But now, when talkie technique has
been brought to such a high standard
that one may indulge in the whole gamut
of the emotions for a couple of bob,
Australia is turning out pictures of the
type of “Gone to the Dogs,” “The
Broken Melody,” “Lovers and Luggers,”
etc. I have gone to most of them in
obedience to the promptings of patriot-
ism and “young industry—we should all
give it a boost” spirit. But the boost’s
beginning to drag out a little, and it’s
time our film-producers realised that we
can’t go on for ever supporting feature
shows which are not up to the standard
of imported supports, patronising them
merely because they are Australian-made.
There must be scores of books and
plays suitable for filming still unexploited
and capable of being filmed with as little
expense as some of the Rudd classics.
And we shouldn’t need third-rate Holly-
wooders to show us how —a little of the
best is preferable to a lot of the not-so-
good.
As a final grouch, why must our sweet
young heroines employ that annoying
finishing-school articulation? B s JV .
British and it’s not pleasant to the ear ,
it is just snobbish and silly. -A.
Follett (N.S.W.).
Few Markets for Poison
According to the secret archives of the
U.S.S.R. —so secret that every down-at-
heel Red seems to know every detail or
them —Spain was the first country to be
marked down for propagation of the
hammer and sickle. The coup came off
temporarily, but was spoiled (so my Red
friend imparted in hushed tones) by the
action of the Vatican in starting Franco
off in an effort to redeem valuable church
property which was endangered while the
Communists held sway.
Next on the list was Australia, whose
“tie with the Mother Country has been
loosened through the universal prevalence
of Marxism,” as Ewald Banse asserted in
Germany, Prepare for War. Here the
coup didn’t come off.
In South Africa, where the “desire to
break away from the Empire is rapidly
gaining force,” and where only 37 p.c.
of the white population is British, it was
hoped to bring down the hammer and
sickle with a resounding thwack, but the
unfortunate miscalculation this time was
General Smuts.
The only safe market for manufac-
tured poison was China, but even poor
old John, hopelessly tom between two
Tacks, looks like choosing the lesser evil
in a compromise with enemy Nippon.
All this must be tremendously discour-
aging to the “cause,” and it is, possibly,
quite “reliably reported” that Joe will
try to get down among the heathen in
India. But even there it is possible that
some spoilsport like Gandhi will get all
hot and passive about it, or, realising that
he is not dealing with British humani-
tarians—who hate to see a man starving
—he may up and strangle Joe with his
loincloth.— Celt (N.S.W.).
A Cow of a Word
My sympathy is with The Bulletin
correspondent who couldn’t pronounce
the word “cow” satisfactorily for English
ears. This word was an absolute bugbear
to us when children, and we soon learnt
to omit all reference to these animals
from our daily chatter. The following
conversation still lingers in my memory:
“Miserable Joe’s cow’s in our orchard,
Grandpa.”
“Miserable Joe’s what?”
“Miserable Joe’s cow, Grandpa.”
“Miserable Joe’s what?”
“Miserable Joe’s bull, Grandpa.”—
F. U. F. (W.A.).
Only Partly Used
We hear of such overworked words
as “service,” “communique” and “defi-
nitely,” but what of the underworked
words —“temperance” and “gambling”
or “anti-gambling”? v
According to numbers of women’s
movements to-day “temperance” means
“total abstinence.” Properly used the word
can be applied to all things, including
both beer and dress. It has been stated
that the application of the word to beer
was influenced by the fact that if men
spent less on beer there would be more
for the womenfolk to use for dress.
The “anti-gambling” fraternity or
“sisternity” generally apply the word to
cards or horseracing, forgetting that in-
surance companies charging 2s. 6d. in the
£lOO fire insurance premium are virtually
betting the insurer 800 to 1 that he does
not have a fire in a year. The anti-
gamblers are generally the advocates of
marriage in large quantities, and
marriage is the greatest of all gambles.
—Nufsed (Vic.).
Age of Bewilderment
“They live only for the present!” This
is not an isolated remark, but one I am
constantly hearing passed in condemna-
tion of the present generation. And,
what is more, it is perfectly true. We do
live for the present; what else is there to
live for?
What encouragement is there to plan
and save for the future when it promises
only guns and destruction? We can’t even
take comfort from the thought of an
after-life; somehow, we’ve lost our faith
in that. We have had our foundations
cut away, and youth is floundering hope-
lessly.
Murdoch says this will be designated
by future scribes the Age of Bewilder-
ment ; certainly it is a time when most
people are becoming possessed with the
feeling of the futility of human endeavor.
Consciously or unconsciously, they are
accepting the philosophy of Omar
Khayyam with a tragic desperation.—
C. L. D. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
17/6
GENUINE
..MEERSCHAUM
PIPE
Beautifully
Packed..
Honestly
worth 30/-.
Special Price
to “Bulletin”
readers, 17/6.
Goods Sent C.O.D. if desired.
Send 6d. in stamps for Liberal Sample of
“Levysown” Quality Tobacco in Fine Cut
or Pipe at 7/- per lb., worth 10/- per lb.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 lvs. pkt., 2/4 per doz. pkts.
SOL LEVY,
Established 39 Years.
713 George St., Sydney.
The GREAT WESTERN SADDLE
75/- BARE
(Mounts 10/- extra.)
A splendidly - made
saddle into which the
best workmanship and
materials have gone.
Note the deep channel
illustrated in the sec-
tional drawing. This
enables a cool draught
of air to pass along
the horse’s back.
Freight Free in N.B.W.
Write for FREE
Saddlery Catalogue.
ŵ
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
18-20 WILSON ST.. NEWTOWN, N.S.W.
The DUNLEAVY DIAGRAM
(KEG.)
/ A framework ;
simplifies anil
improves box-
ing; a self-
instructor.
Write for my
FREE BOOK.
.JACK
DUNLEAVY,
Box 1791 K,
G.P.0.. Svdney
M
TARZAH'S GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
md parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tarzan’s Grip Manufacturing
Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Willoughby Road,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES, 1/-
ẁ
m
THIS ONE WIRE
ELECTRIC FENCE
Parmak Electric Fencer
cuts fencing costs by 80%
. , . holds horses, cattle,
pigs, sheep with one wire.
Harmless. Hundreds in
use. Money back if not
satisfied. Write for details.
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY.LTD.
188 GEORGE STRE ET., SYDN E Y. N.S.W.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
161 CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY
TeitfotlMontk
/, m
mm
8 £ :
;■
■
Write for Booklet
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible —
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Suite 601 K, City Mutual
Building, cnr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ẃ
'WINCHESTER
TWIN-SERVICE
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-Cell, 1500 ft.
Range
35/-
3-ceII, 350ft.0P/
Range .... &Or
Complete with Batteries.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING ST., SYDNEY.
“FRIG-ETTE” PORTABLE
ICE CHESTS
(CORK INSULATED)
Ideal for picnics, motor
tours, sporting and all
outdoor uses. Available
in two sizes.
SENIOR Model, capacity
4 bottles and food box
or 8 bottles without food
box, PRICE 39/6.
JUNIOR Model, capacity
6 bottles (without food
box), PRICE 29/6.
All Stores or direct from
V
Senior Model
J. HICKMER & SONS PTY. LTD.,
150-152 Brighton Street, Richmond, El, Vic.
fSTOP-A-LEAK STICK
Permanently repairs Roofs of
Iron, Slate, Tile, Shingle or
Composition. Stops leaks
around clTimneys,-skylights,,
windows; mends flashings, gut-
ters and eaves; fills cracks in
troughs, baths, tanks,.tubs, 1
sinks, metal and- earthenware 1
pipes; caulks - boats, &c. The l
Stop-a-Leak Stick is a tough rubbery' material i
like black putty that sticks.firmly wherever it is
placed. It is unaffected by heat, cold or moisture,,
never crumbles or dries out. Better than cement,
or solder for most mends. No skill needed in (
applying. Price 1/6 per stick, carriage, paid.
Obtainable only from (
UNION CO., 299 Elizabeth. Street, Melb., CL,
ẅ
PAGE'
STOVES
Famous throughout Victoria since 1907.
The patent adjustable grate in “PAGE”
stoves may be adjusted into three posi-
tions for (1) baking, (2) grilling, or (3)
boiling and frying.
Write to-day for a free illustrated cata-
logue of these wonder cookers to
Page Manufacturing Co.,
Gheringhap Street, Geelong. Victoria.
USE LESS FUEL
STOPyour Rupture
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
w
14 DAYS FREE TRIAL
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DEAF!
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. , Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 80S
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
m
fis
$8
•'V-,
m
m
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
'made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FKEE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Bargains in Military Surplus Stocks
FIREMAN’S BOOTS. N.S.W. Fireman’s best quality
Leather Wellington Boots. Genuine issue. Part
worn, only 9/6 per pair.
RIFLES. Genuine B.S.A. MILITARY 310 Rifles,
in brand-new condition; original cost, £7/10/-.
NOW ONLY 21/—, complete with Sights, Protector,
Distance Gauge. 600 yards. A Genuine Bargain.
200 Pairs Military PACK SADDLE BAGS, brand-
new, made of the best English leather; size 27in.
x l7in. Worth £7/10/-. TO CLEAR, ONLY
£2/5/- per paii\
200 Military ROPE TRACES, leather-bound. Also
suitable Oar Tow Ropes, Bft. 6in. long, 5/6 each;
10/- per pair, NEW.
300 Military TORCH LAMPS, can also be used for
Morse signalling, 3/6 each.
Military SHEATH KNIVES, 7/6 each.
HARRY MITCHELL,
Dept. B, 246 George Street, Sydney.
(Licensed Govt. Dealer for over 25 years.)
ŵ
ẁ
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
id
sZaZZ&ZcM,
r\
Crushes ice,
medium and coarse.
Working parts of
Stainless Steel.
Ideal for Hotels,
Hospitals, Caf d s,
Modern Homes.
Price (post free),
. 49/6 A
AMPL/ON (AS/A) PTT. LTD.,
332 KENT STREET STORET
The Ideal SOLDIER’S WATCH
cv H *
DUSTPROOF
WATERPROOF
SHOCKPROOF
•
Ideal for Outdoors,
Sport, etc. Essen-
tially a man’s
watch. Not affected
by tropical climes. Guarantee;] 10 Years.
Usually 75/-. Special to
“Bulletin” Readers, Post Free.
67/6
Send for free illustrated watch and
diamond ring catalogue.
DIAMOND
& WATCH
SPECIALISTS
112 MARKETS
SYDNEY,
OPR DAVIDJONES
ẃ
Jhe Challenger
KEROSENE Bath-heater
Simple to work —cheap to
run. Merely turn on water
& light the burner for a hot
shower or bath. Write for
descriptive pamphlet—
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
188 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY
MEHOR«« IthEasE i
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Make your brain accurate, creative,
dynamic. Handle men and affairs.
Reconstruct yourself for efficiency
with the Leeds Method.
Booklet Free. Write
Rev. W. Rowlands, 12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
OIL HEAT
BATH HEATEF
Burning Fuel
Oil, the Cheapest
Fuel known.
A Hot Bath for
a third of a
penny.
Catalogue Free,
Sands’ “Handi”
Pumpless Iron.
Camps of All
Kinds.
T. W. SANDS
387 LONSDALE ST., MELBOURNE.
4k • • n
THE
WOMAN S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full paynient.
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN”
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers. «'0
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d., extra). G’''^^
'ft iT CP
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian V
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts \
the building up of the £,O
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/- tS.
yy |\e*V
/
&
e *
,d# e
sd. extra).
vS s
01
cr
ofvO'V^SlV 4 '


0
mm
m
f
w>
'///'
/////A
//////
Yffl
A
i ' ■ Hi
ilifw ; v :
w.
s'.
A.W.A. pioneered the Beam Wireless Service from
Australia to Great Britain and to North America, saving the
Australian public over £1,000,000.
A.W.A. pioneered overseas radio telephone services,
enabling telephone subscribers in Australia to ring over
30,000,000 telephone subscribers throughout the world.
A.W.A. pioneered Beam Wireless Picturegram ser-
vices, bringing photographs of world events to our daily
newspapers.
A.W.A. pioneered world-wide broadcasting services,
enabling good news of Australia to be radiated to all
countries*
A.W.A. pioneered manufacture of radio apparatus
for use in ships, aircraft and on land, making Australia
largely self-contained in this vital key industry*
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (AUSTRALASIA) LID.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
