

Mr. PETER DAWSON
the world-famous baritone
USES AND RECOMMENDS
#
the wonderful money-saving remedy for
COUGHS COLDS
INFLUENZA
m i : :
■
m
.1
0*
m
HEENZO
is good and safe for
CHILDREN
and
ADULTS
CATARRH
BRONCHITIS
SORE THROATS
WHOOPING
COUGH
HEENZO WILL NOT UPSET EVEN A
BABY’S DIGESTION—NICE TO TAKE.
■
:
Mr. PETER DAWSON,
the world’s famous baritone, writes:—
“A few doses of HEENZO quickly
dispelled a cold that had troubled me
for some weeks.”
Save lots of money by simply, in your own
home, adding a two-shilling bottle of
concentrated HEENZO to sweetened water,
thus making ONE PINT of the world’s best
family remedy, equally good and safe for
children and adults, as a speedy and pleasant
cure for chest, nose and throat ailments.
By taking made-up HEENZO internally
you quickly soothe and banish COUGHS,
COLDS, CROUP, BRONCHITIS and
INFLUENZA. Experiments have proved
that the most effective and economical
treatment for CATARRH and COLDS IN
THE HEAD is placing a few drops of
made-up HEENZO up each nostril, night
and morning. To gain instant relief from
SORE and SMOKERS' THROATS, gargle
with made-up HEENZO whenever the
irritation in felt. HEENZO being pure, and
free from poisons or harsh drugs, cannot
upset the digestion of even the youngest
baby. You can also rely on HEENZO as a
safeguard against catching the ills of winter
chills by taking a dose before venturing out
into crowds, or cold, wet, and windy weather.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES
m
m
made
UP
rou k
IN
HOME
OWN
m
CHEST AILMENTSI
FOR ALL CHEST
AILMENTS—TAKE
HEENZO INTERNALLY.
IN AUSTRALIA
SELL HEENZO
m
m
MAO*
»OUB
OWN HOME
GARCUforjl
{ORE THROATS
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF.
MADE UP
IN YOUR
CATARRH
Also COLDS in HEAD. Place
a few drops of made-up
HEENZO up each nostril-
night and morning.
The Bulletin
“Are We Just ‘Colonials ’? ”
Vol. 60.—N0. 3098.
Wednesday, June 28, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Sireet, SYDNEY.
sdf
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
- CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write lor Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
tly Address
$.15. 239
The Red Page
CAPTIVE ON THE RAIDER WOLF.
Australian-born Roy Alexander tells an outstand-
ing real-life adventure story in The Cruise of the
Raider Wolf (Angus and Robertson). He was wireless
officer aboard the Wairuna when she was captured and
sunk by the Wolf, and was carried as a prisoner of
war along with a couple of hundred other men until
the raider returned to Kiel after one of the most
spectacular and successful raiding exploits of maritime
history.
She was out from Kiel about 15 months, and
during the whole of that time depended for coal, food
and other supplies on what she got from captured
vessels. She steamed 64,000 miles in the Atlantic,
Pacific and Indian Oceans. She sowed minefields in
Maoriland waters, between Sydney and Melbourne,
off Colombo, Bombay, Singapore, Cape Town and in
the eastern entrance to the Red Sea. She sank 135,000
tons of British shipping, “ranging from mail steamers
to old windbags.”
A cargo steamer of under 6000 tons and a best
speed of 11 knots, she worked wide as a kelpie for
the most part, coming in out of the blue to raid along
the lines of trade and transport and then heading
again for the untravelled stretches of ocean. But
she could pull a bluff. Rounding the Cape of Good
Hope she ran into an Australian fleet of troop trans-
ports and naval convoy. She held to her course, be-
having like any hard-working respectable tramp, and
they let her pass. She was armed to the teeth, but
her disguise was a masterpiece. Alexander says that
the gun on her poop looked like a cargo derrick even
when you were standing on the deck beside it.
The prisoners were housed. under -the poop
hatches alongside the stern chamber where the mines
were stored. They could see them through holes in
the bulkhead from which rivets had fallen, and used
to take a breathless interest when they were being put
overboard, for an accidental blow on one of the lead
caps with which they were studded would have been
the end of the story. There was considerable nerve
tension even among the German seamen who handled
them. On top of that the work was naturally done in
areas more or less thick with shipping. Aroused sus-
picions, an inquiring searchlight and flying shells were
a strong possibility. The Wolf’s cargo of mines ren-
dered her highly vulnerable to shellfire. The prisoners
developed an interest in successful mine-laying that
contrasted painfully with their patriotic feelings.
The author gives a good description of the men
in the crowded prisoners’ quarters, from Rees, a bitter
little man who noted every mine laid and calculated
its position with a view to escape and the handing
of his knowledge to the British Admiralty, to old
Martin, a Frenchman who sat in his hammock with a
stocking cap on his head, “looking like a Norman
Lindsay pirate,” and cursed his captors continually
as he knotted off the mines on a length of string.
Rees was finally successful in getting his informa-
tion to British naval headquarters, but Alexander can
find little evidence that it was acted upon. He is rather
bitter about the loss of the Wimmera, off Auckland on
her way to Sydney, a year after the mines were laid
and months after fairly accurate information had
been supplied to the Admiralty. His comments on
political reactions in Australia following the loss of
the Cumberland off Gabo are also worth reading. As
for his terse muscular way of telling a yarn, take this
account of mine-laying off Gabo:
A moderate sea was running off the coast and the
Wolf kept well out during the day. So many mines were
taken up from the hold that the space under the poop
was filled and they were lying out on the open deck.
We could tell that from the wheels stopping right over
our heads. If one mine had slipped sideways the ship
would simply have disappeared in a succession of blasts.
That afternoon off Gabo seemed unreal to us; and the
good folk of Sydney and Melbourne would certainly
have been startled had they known that a raider was'
steaming off the coast with her after-deck black with
mines and waiting only for darkness before mining
Australia’s most important sea track.
The Wolf slipped in towards the coast and the mines
began to go overboard about 9 p.m. Tire ship was in
darkness, of course, and dodging along between Cape
Howe and Gabo Lighthouse. She was being driven
her hardest; the hull quivered and shook as the best
possible speed was forced out of her. We could hear
the quick orders of the officer as the mines went over
the stem from under the poop, and then the rumble of
wheels as additional mines were pushed along the deck
in their turn. The prisoners were very silent and still;
there was little of the usual chatter and joking. We
would try to talk, but every man’s attention would
wander. Our ears were strained waiting for the rush on
deck and the clanging down of the ship’s sides —which
would mean trouble.
It came at last.
The mines were going over quickly and about 25 had
been dropped in less than an hour when there was a
scurry on deck. The steel sides masking the guns came
crushing down against the hull, and we heard the guns
and torpedo-tubes over our heads being swung out;
the ship was clear for action without any attempt at
disguise and with her deck still cluttered with mines.
Nobody in the hold moved. There would be no further
sign from the deck before anything occurred. We just
waited. The only sounds were the heavy pounding of
the engines and the low crying of a young Mauritius
boy among us. He was making a subdued whimpering
like a frightened puppy.
The ship lurched and heeled over as she changed
her course; she was clearing out. Minutes passed;
an hour passed; then somebody ventured to get up and
stretch himself. There was another movement on deck,
1 sides were being raised back into position—
the Wolf had got away again. She was running full belt
back into the Tasman. After a couple of hours we even
tried a little bravado and came to the comfortable con-
elusion that the Wolf had been scared off by an
ordinary merchant ship.
We were wrong. The cruiser Encounter had passed
down the coast and just missed sighting the minelayer
at work. Captain Nerger—may his eyesight never
fail!—had sighted the cruiser first.
The Cruise of the Raider Wolf is the most quot-
able book that has come the way of this reviewer in
years. On every page there is some gem of descrip-
tion or action that is hard to resist. Take this short
bit from the description of mine-laying off Maoriland.
For the sake of lower visibility blue lights were used
in the Wolf when she was in the main sea tracks:
It is impossible to imagine how nerve-wearing it is
to live in a complete blue glare. The prisoners, in
that ghastly light, looked like moving corpses. Each
man seemed to see his neighbor in a new aspect; to
scrutinise him with a ghoulish curiosity—to see him
suddenly as he would appear if, and when, he were
drowned. Ugh!
The. Cruise of the Raider Wolf is a high-spirited
book. Life in the prisoners’ quarters must have been
very trying—the mental confinement as well as the
physical crowding, the discomfort, the danger and in-
ferior rations. Off an island in the Pacific two men
decided to make a bid for liberty. “It was freedom or
the sharks.” It was the sharks. Alexander lets con-
ditions among the prisoners be known to the reader
without plunging into gloom. His own salvation was
obviously his strong curiosity about persons and hap-
penings ; piecing this and that together, building up in
his own mind a continuous image of events beyond the
prisoners’ quarters, estimating the qualities of all with
whom he came in contact. Of these things is the sub-
stance of his book.
It is a tolerant book. He has many a good word
to say for his captors and believes that on the whole
he was treated as well as circumstances permitted. It
is a humorous book. He never fails to get at the
comic side of events. One of his best yarns is about
an Australian wife of a ship’s captain, taken aboard
the Wolf after her husband’s vessel had been looted
and sunk. The Wolf, following her constant practice,
was in flight from the scene of her exploit, but Cap-
tain Nerger didn’t neglect the comfort of his lady
captive. He ?gave orders that she be installed in a
decent cabin and later sent to ask if there was any-
thing more he could do for her. Of course there was.
“My compliments to Captain Nerger, and will he
please send a wireless message to my mother in Syd-
ney, telling her where I am.”
S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Entries and Judges.
Judges appointed for this year’s competition
for the Prize are:
H. M. Green —Fisher Librarian at the Uni-
versity of Sydney ; literary critic whose An
Outline of Australian Literature is the most
comprehensive work on that subject.
Louis Esson —widely-known Victorian
playwright, poet, short-story writer and critic.
Frank Dalby Davison —author of Man-
Shy, Wells of Beersheba, etc.; sound literary
critic.
The trustees are convinced that they could
not have got together a better board of judges
for this literary competition, a main considera-
tion in which is that the winner shall be a con-
tribution to Australian literature.
No award having been made for the past
two years, the prize has mounted to £3OO, and
has attracted 165 entries from' writers in all
Australian States, from Maoriland and the
Pacific Islands, also from Australians resident
abroad.
The total is five more than last year’s.
Entries are acknowledged on page 8.
Judging is expected to take from six to
eight weeks, and results should be announced
about the first week in August.
Resurrection of Don Juan.
Sylvia Townsend Warner, in search for some-
thing novel in plots, has hit on the device of continu-
ing the libretto of Mozart’s opera “Don Juan.”
The opera tells the story of the famous lady-
killer’s last conquest and its retribution. Don Juan
paid court to Dona Ana, an heiress, betrothed to
Don Ottavio, and one night tried to abduct her. Hear-
ing her cries, her father rushed to her assistance, and
engaged in a duel with Don Juan. The old man was
killed, and Don Juan escaped, but not for long. He
went to his victim’s grave, now adorned with a statue
larger than life, to mock him. The statue replied,
making a dinner engagement with him. Leporello,
Don Juan’s rascally valet, was the only witness of
the strange feast when it took place. Don Juan dis-
appeared. Leporello spread the story that hell had
opened and swallowed him at the command of his
guest. Naturally, everyone believed it, and the opera
comes to a magnificent end.
After the Death of Don Juan (Chatto and
Windus) picks up the tale in a very different vein.
Gone are the footlights, the splendor and majesty
of the music, the high nobility of the treatment. In
the cold daylight Dona Ana is an exhibitionist of the
first class and “undeniably slow-witted.” Don Ottavio
is a lounge lizard who watches with anguish his be-
trothed crippling her fortune in obsequies for her
father, who was, after all, a bombastic old fool. She
will do nothing but weep and moan and think up
new ways of spending money, and she always has
the unanswerable argument that her conscience
demands it.
Don Juan is very much on her conscience, for
she feels herself the innocent cause of his having gone
to perdition. She is really very intrigued with the
idea of having a man damned for her sake and un-
willing to let go of her romance with the famous
libertine. As a penance, she proposes to go and visit
his father, Don Saturno, at Tenorio Viejo, to break
the news, Ottavio sighs, and insists that she marry
him first, which she does in a moment of negligent
acquiescence. They set off in their coach accompanied
by a duenna and Leporello to guide them—Ana pray-
ing at every shrine and Ottavio playing his flageolet.
The news of Don Juan’s death fills the villagers
with hope. Now that the estate will not have to be
drained of every penny to pay for his gaieties, per-
haps Don Saturno will make some of the reforms
he has so long promised, relieve them of the taxes
under which they groan. They go to him, and he
receives them sympathetically. Yes, everything will
be adjusted. He will bring water to irrigate their
fields, and then everyone will be prosperous.
Suddenly Don Juan appears, looking for money
as usual. He airily explains that his death was a
device for eluding his creditors. Ana indicates that
she is ready now to fall into his arms, but he tells her
roundly that she bores him, and it was as much to
escape from her pursuit as from his creditors that he
staged his death. He packs her and Ottavio into their
carriage and sends them off. He then unfolds to his
father a plan for betraying the villagers and extorting
greater profit from them. The villagers hear of it, and
besiege the castle.
In the midst of the fracas Ottavio comes back,
having been wrought upon by Ana, to fight a duel
with Don Juan. The villagers pass him in in the hope
that he will kill Don Juan and save them trouble. As
soon as he learns the true state of affairs, Ottavio
sinks his personal grievance in class solidarity. By
a ruse, Don Juan sends out a letter summoning mili-
tary help. The soldiers come and shoot down the
villagers. Don Juan is once more triumphant.
The book has its flippant side and its serious side.
Only the villagers are real; the other characters are
elegant symbols. Don Juan is quite ferociously evil.
The novel, despite its flippancy, is executed with great
delicacy. The descriptive passages glow with a beauty
that is like light.
P. G. Taylor's New Book.
At the time of this writing P. G. Taylor is some-
where up in the air over the Indian Ocean, surveying
an air route between Australia and Africa in the
flying-boat Guba. In The Bulletin office one day a
month or so back he was very enthusiastic about this
flight, and there is strong evidence in his latest book,
Call to the Winds (Angus and Robertson), that the
undertaking meant much more to him than honor
and glory or the pleasure of doing a big job well. It
represents an uplifting again after having had his faith
in the worth of hazardous venturing somewhat
blunted.
In the new book he hits hard at armchair critics
who aired their ignorance after the unsuccessful
Tasman flight—or perhaps unsuccessful is no word
for it after reading his description of Smithy’s mag-
nificent flying of the disabled machine and the per-
sonal account of his own heroic contribution to that
great feat. When they had turned back disabled,
Stannage, the wireless operator, sent a message say-
ing that they were about to go down for a sight. This
was accurately received by A.W.A. in Sydney, but
was subsequently garbled to “We are now coming
down might ”
From a certain well-known type of individual this
afterwards gave rise to criticism and veiled suggestions
that the scare had been deliberate in order tp make
our situation appear even worse than it was; tottering
on the brink sort of thing (which, actually, we were,
for nine hours).
No doubt they felt savage at the paltry implica-
tions of such people after what they had been
through—an adventure not only beyond the armchair
critic’s aspiration, but beyond his possible imagining.
Taylor was still feeling sore about these stupid people
when he wrote his book, so they must have rankled
deeply ; but they’re not worth his shot. As it happens,
he sees bigger game to shoot at, and lets go with
both barrels:
Effective opposition to Kingsford Smith’s plan for
a trans-Tasman air-mail service, in which he saw
the natural future outlet for his experience and
unrivalled knowledge of the air, led him to undertake
the flight on which he was lost The fact is that the
Tasman crossing provides one of those special circum-
stances where air-transport has a real commercial value.
Transport interests which planned to run the air service
over this route naturally sought to reserve Australian
and New Zealand support for the time when they would
be in a position to start a mail service. Not so very
long ago people who discovered new sea-routes and
lands of potential commercial value usually had their
heads cut off as soon as they showed signs of develop-
ing active interest in their discoveries. Though not
quite so brutally frank the modem method is equally
effective, and certainly proved to be so in the case of
Kingsford Smith and his inconvenient interest in the
Tasman.
It is excusable bitterness. He flew the Pacific
with Smithy, regards him as the master flyer, and in
{“Red Page” continued on page 8.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” always.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Half tfeafh) (jenuite SALE
Save, by buying your "Jumbuk" Underwear at Sale Prices, and have it for the cold weather ahead.
"Jmnbuk" (Regd.) Underwear is a stock line and recommended by Anthony Horderns'. It is made of long
staple pure woollen yarn, and provides the right protection against the ravages of winter. Its natural
warmth is a safeguard to health. _
"Jumbuk" Underwear is Australian through and through, is guaranteed pre-shrunk, and is stocked in a
wide range of men's sizes from 34 to 50 inch chest or waist.
f
r
\
mm
y
' '
Reg. Trade Mark
• Men’s Mercery —Ground Floor —George Street.
Boys’ Mercery Ground Floor, Pitt Street, or
First Floor, George Street. Freight paid to all
railway stations in N.S.IF. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY. 'Phone M 2401 (Day or Night)
MEN’S JUMBUK' UNDERWEAR
220 X "JUMBUK" NATURAL ALL WOOL, LIGHT WEIGHT
All "JUMBUK" (Regd.) ATHLETIC SINGLETS
In cream all wool sleeveless style, self bound neck and armholes. Sizes
34 to 44 inch chest. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price 5/11
SALE PRICE, each - 5/6
BOYS’ JUMBUK' UNDERWEAR
25X Boys’ "Jumbuk" Natural Wool and Cotton Singlets, Warm Winter Wgt.
Sizes, Chest, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Singlets, Short Sleeves 4/6 4/9 5/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/6
SALE PRICES, each 4/- 4/3 4/6 5/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/-
330 A Boys’ "Jumbuk" Natural All Wool Underwear, Warm Winter Weight
Sizes, Chest, inches 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Singlets, Short Sleeves 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/- 7/9 8/9 10/- 11/6
SALE PRICES, each 5/- 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/3 8/3 9/6 11/-
Trunk Drawers, Size, Waist 20 22 24 26 28 30 32 34
Prices, each —6- ■ 6/6 7/- 7/9 8/9 10/-
SALE PRICES, each 5/6 6/- 6/6 7/3 8/3 9/6


“I'm Gonna Be the Chamt., Joe,” He Said and —
“YOU COULD
BELIEVE MICKY”
by A. C. Headley
ILLUSTRATED BY PHILLIPS
“ £"* URE,” said Micky James, “I ain’t in
the game for me ’ealth. These ama-
✓ chewers is wot beats me —taking a
’idin’ ’cause maybe they’ll win a
medal. I’m in it for the stuff that pays deposits
on cash orders. An’ I ain’t gonna be no slug-
nutty at the finish neither. I got brains, see.
Brains so I can move fast ’nough when there’s a
punch cornin’ an’ be in another spot. My nose ain’t
no target for no glove-benders.”
He was so sure of himself you could believe
that about him even in those early days. He was
doing four-round prelims., but the way he was doing
them was like taking a bite out of an apple. He was
smart all right, and you didn’t need no telling that
if he looked after himself he’d go to the top.
Micky would talk about it himself. “Maybe it’s
gonna be this year, Joe ; maybe next. But there’s
gonna be the ropes an’ the ref., the champ, an’ me
in the same ring, an’ I’m gonna be wavin’ to the
crowd when it’s over.”
“Sure,” I’d say ; “an’ there’ll be a bit of my money
padding the seat in your corner.”
] T turned out just like Micky said, too. It was not
* until the following year, but I knew it was coming.
Usually there’s some stumbling-block to the title;
I’ve seen promising boys battered into the background
by one fight. There was Tommy Edgeworth. There
weren’t any gamer than Tommy, but the night he lost
a tooth and the tip of his tongue was the last fight
he ever had. It took the fear of God and lodged it
on the end of a lump of padded leather as far as he
was concerned. But Micky never got careless. When-
ever I’d see him he’d say, “I’m on my way, Joe.
How’re the savin’s?”
It was when he was doing the six-round step-up
that he showed me the pictures of a punch-drunk’s
brain. It was in one of those physical-culture maga-
zines, and they showed the brain of a normal man
as well. I remember the normal one being nice and
compact, but the other one was like it was cut in
four flattened slabs and ready to drop apart. “I ain’t
gonna be like that,” said Micky.
“Sure you ain’t, Micky,” said I, “not if you keep
on like you’re going. And keep away from booze and
women.”
“I got no interest in ’em,” said Micky.
You could believe Micky. Anything he told you
was right. He wasn’t interested in women at that
time, but it wasn’t long before he was, and I wasn’t
surprised when he got married. He was picking up
the ten-rounders at the suburban stadiums at that
time, and there wasn’t much worry about the landlord
and the time-payment man. And being married didn t
make any difference to Micky’s fighting.
It seemed like married life was good for him.
He went right on winning fights as though nothing had
happened. The only thing that was different was that
Sally would come to the stadiums to watch him fight.
She used to sit next to me most times, and she was
always frightened that Micky was going to be hurt.
She might have saved herself the trouble. He was
too good. Certainly he copped a few punches. You
couldn’t be in the fight game without that happening
occasionally. But there was never any battering going
on with Micky as the target.
The only time he ever took any real punishment
was in a return match with Darkie Evans, and that
was on account of their first match being declared
“no contest.” It was bad match-making in the first
place. Darkie was the same style of fighter—-a
counter-puncher—and in that first fight they just pawed
around the ring waiting for the lead. In the third
round the crowd started counting them out, and half-
way through the fifth the ref. just walked out of the
ring. I remember how sore Micky was about it, and
how he wouldn’t be satisfied till he could get a return.
“I’ll cane the ears off ’im next time,” he said.
He did it all right. He carried the fight to Darkie.
It was in the first few rounds that he started to take
some punishment. Darkie was no mug, and this
kind of fighting suited him. All the time he was
picking Micky off with punches Sally was holding
me tight by the arm. But it didn’t last, and when
Micky settled down there was only one in it. That
was the night that he got the cut over his left eye,
and he wouldn’t take another fight for a month until
it was healed up properly.
“I’m lookin’ after meself, Joe. We got enough
dough to stand a spell, and I’m takin’ it.”
Micky was like that —careful.
“Joe,” he said, “me nose is straight, me ears ain't
changed, and me jaw ain’t started to spread , that s
the way they’re stayin’.”
When he came back after the spell his eye was
right. He took up just where he had left off. There
were a couple of main fights, and he took them in
his stride, but not the same way as he did against
Darkie Evans. He just fell back into his old style, and
crabbed an easy points win each time.
“Joe,” he said, “I ain’t never fightin’ again like
I fought Darkie. I don’t want no one takin’ no
pitchers of my brain when I kick the bucket. Its
one way of winnin’ fights but it ain’t mine. When I
finish up I want to be able to count me dough without
anyone ’elpin’.”
\7 OU could believe Micky. I saw all his fights right
* up to when he quit the game, and he never came
at the same thing as he did against Darkie. He just
went on winning fights, standing off and cutting his
opponents to ribbons. Not once did Sally have to
catch me by the arm because someone was towelling
the ears off him. Micky was too good, too clever.
Most of the punches he took were on his gloves or
shoulders. He was pretty to watch—the way he could
spin away when they trapped him in a corner, duck-
ing and weaving and grinning all over his face.
You could tell he was going to be the champion.
There was .nothing more certain that that. There
were boys he had beaten who had beaten the cham-
pion in non-title fights. It was only a question of
how long ihe champion could hedge before he was
forced into a match with Micky. All the papers were
at him to either fight or resign the title. If didn’t
make much difference. It was only a question of
time.
Micky wasn’t fighting so often then. There was
no one who wanted a match with him. It’s funny-
like that. They all want to fight the champion but
not the future champion. “Wait till he is champion.”
There’ll be enough fighters then, ranging right back to
bush-town pugs who’ve fluked a win in a ten-rounder,
all wanting to fight the champ.
“It’ll come,” said Micky, “and I’ll be champion.
That’s when I’ll start to pick up the real dough, and
there won’t be many fights. Just one every once in
a while.”
The champion couldn’t dodge for ever. And then
Micky was in the ring at last with the ref. and the
champ. It wasn’t a good fight; it was too one-sided.
Micky won nearly every round, and after the third
1 could see that the money I’d bet on him was pretty
safe. I didn’t win much, because the way things were
I had to lay pretty long odds against the champ., but
it was just like money in the bank. After it was over
there was Micky in the ring, waving his hands to
the crowd, and Sally crying on my shoulder just like
as if he’d lost the fight.
“Joe,” Micky said, “I’m gonna ’ave a few fights
in the big dough an’ then I’m gonna retire. Un-
defeated, Joe, undefeated.”
“Sure,” I said.
You could believe everything Micky told you.
When they found that there was no one here who
could make a fight with him they started bringing
fighters out from America. But it made no differ-
ence. He was good, all right; and every fight he
learned something that made him better. His name
got into the lists on the other side, and he was rated
third to the champion of the world.
But he never became a world’s champion, though
I don’t doubt that he had it in him. He just didn’t
want to leave Australia.
“Joe,” he said, “I’ve seen ’em go over the other
side. They been good, too, but not when they came
back. It tears ’em to pieces.”
There was no reason why he should go. He was
picking up money enough here without much fighting,
and he was still as good as ever. He and Sally were
getting on pretty well, and there was talk of a young
Micky.
“ ’E’ll ’ave nothin’ to do with fightin’ either,” said
Micky. “ ’E’s gonna grow up and be educated.”
It was just before the kid was born that Micky
quit the fight game. He’d had the few fights and
enough dough stacked away to make life easy, and he
bought himself into a small pub in the suburbs.
You could see him there any day talking to some-
one over the bar. You couldn’t tell to see him that
he’d ever had a fight in his life. His nose was straight,
his ears the same as they had always been, and his
jaw still thin, delicate and pointed.
“ ’E’ll ’ave nothin’ to do with fightin’,” Micky
had said, but he was wrong about that. The kid
turned out to be a girl. You couldn’t blame Micky
for that, though. It’s just a thing that grows in your
soul, so that before the kid’s born you’ve got a name
£qj- him and know just what he 11 look like when he
grows up.
'T' HE story should end there like they do in the
1 magazines—how they lived happily ever after. And
I’ve never seen two people get on better together than
Micky and Sally. 1 used to drop in pretty often for
a drink, and Micky and I would get talking, and he’d
tell me * how good things were. Most times, though,
ihe first thing he’d want to do would be to take me
out the b;tck and show me the kid. There were only
the two of them running the pub, and he’d call Sally
in to look after the bar, and then when he brought


the kid he’d just stand there and look, and you’d
suddenly get the same kind of feeling, and wonder
why the hell you’d never got married and had a kid
that smiled.
After a while, though, I had an idea that some-
thing was wrong. It was just the way that Micky
and Sally looked. Sally was thinning off a lot, and
her eyes had the look that there was nothing so much
she wanted to do but go to sleep. Micky was like
that, too, and the loose flesh under his eyes was begin-
ning to sink into little wrinkles. At first I thought
it must be the baby, keeping them awake at night,
but it wasn’t the kid, and I didn’t find out until I
came across the line in the paper where Michael
James had been fined for selling beer after hours. It
was the explanation for the tired looks. After-hours
trade and waiting for someone to give three knocks
on the side door and selling them beer at one and
six a bottle.
Micky told me about it. “We was tricked into
it, Joe. It ain’t nothin’ but an after-hours house.
The books looked good, but the ordinary trade
don’t ’ardly pay the rent. We gotter keep up the
after-hours trade, Joe. It’s the only way we can
make a go of it.”
I knew what it meant. Up at five in the morning
to get the pub open for the early drinks, and then
all day in the bar, and after dark waiting for the
three knocks on the side door until maybe midnight.
I felt sorry for them both.
Then there was the next time that I saw the little
bit in the paper about the licensee of the Stapleton
Arms Hotel being fined for after-hours trade. Micky
was in bed the afternoon I went down to see him.
Sally was in the bar, and the kid was squawking in
a room just back of it.
“Hello, Joe,” she said.
It was funny how old she looked. Her face was
in a patch of sun, and I could see the lines. Her
figure was beginning to swell out, and I wondered if
this one was going to be a young Micky. She told
me Micky was in bed.
“It doesn’t matter,” I said, “I’ll see him later,”
and I asked her how things were going. .
“Not bad, Joe,” but somehow I didn’t want to
look at her when she said it.
I saw Micky later and told him about seeing the
bit in the paper.
“The next time,” I said, “you’ll be doing your
license, and then what’ll you do?”
“There ain’t gonna be no nex’ time,” said Micky.
“I’m payin’ a couple of fellers to scout for me. I
ain’t takin’ no chances. They’ll ave to be good to
catch me again.”
“I hope you’re right,” said I.
BUT he wasn’t. Micky wasn’t right. There was a
third time, and Micky didn’t have the pub any
longer. He was pretty sore about the price he had
to take for it.
“It’s the way, Micky,” I told him, “when you
buy a pub you hear all about how good it is, and
when you sell it you find out how bad it is.”
And then suddenly Micky was back in the fight
game again. I struck him in one of the gyms.
Up at five in the morning to get the pub
open for the early drinks, and then all day
in the bar, and after dark waiting for the
three knocks on the side door until maybe
midnight.
“I just gotter git some dough together, Joe, so me
an’ Sally can start again.”
“Sure, Micky,” I said; but I was thinking of
the time when he’d told me that he was quitting the
fight game for good.
And when he started fighting again it wasn’t the
same Micky James. It was —in the beginning. I saw
that first fight, and he started off as though he’d never
been away from the ring. It didn’t last, and I saw
him take a terrific hiding over the last few rounds.
I don’t know what it was exactly except that his timing
seemed to have gone, and he didn’t seem to be able
to roll with the punch and take
the sting out of it like he
used to.
He grinned when I told
him. “Nothin’s the trouble,
Joe,” he said; “I’m just short
of a gallop, that’s all. You
wait.”
I waited while he dropped
four fights in a row. I was
thinking that maybe the pub
had taken more out of him
than he thought. Sally didn’t
ever come to the fights these
days, but I could imagine how
she was feeling about it.
Then Micky was out in
the suburbs in the eight-round
prelims., and suddenly he
started to win his fights. But
it wasn’t the same Micky
James fighting. It was the
Micky who’d won that return
bout with Darkie Evans. He
was standing in and slugging,
fighting crowd-pleasers.
“I gotter do it, Joe,” he
said, “till I git me timin’ back
proper.”
Micky’s nose isn’t straight
any more. It is twisted and
pushed back into his face. One
ear sticks out at the side of his
head like a lump of putty, and
his jaw is broad and flat. He
fights in the four-rounders
now, and loses as many fights
as he wins, but he keeps on
fighting.
ADVICE
BY LES ROBINSON
JT\ DVICE is wasted on some people—utterly
r~\ thrown away. If I had only been one of them
I I might have been different altogether, but I
have a fatal inability to refrain from taking it.
Always do what you are told, I was ad-
vised when a lad, and have been doing it ever since.
Yes, only for that I might have been so utterly differ-
ent as to be almost, if not quite, unrecognisable. All
that early rising, for instance. Would I have incurred
it? Not of my own free will I wouldn’t, at all events,
unless, of course, it couldn’t be helped. Early to bed
and early to rise. So beneficial, they said ; so advan-
tageous. Although, therefore, I would much rather
be at the pictures, instead I always go to bed as
soon as I have had my tea and vacate it with the
utmost reluctance at dawn. As I wander aimlessly
about the deserted streets or, on a winter’s morning,
sit shivering on a park seat wishing that I was back
in my nice warm bed, I am prone to wonder whether
obedience, the perpetual and implicit kind, isn’t an
overrated virtue.
Everything I want to do is, I have always noticed,
either bad for me or likely to be found inconvenient,
because fraught with disadvantageous repercussions,
by relatives, the neighbors, fellow-boarders, toilers
and others with whom I consort, commune or com-
mingle.
Always be punctual! I am, and it enables me to
wait hours sometimes for those who aren’t.
Never let the grass grow under your feet! As
soon as I see a blade of it I stoop down, whether
suffering from backache or not, and pull it out. The
result is that, instead of stepping off nice clean grass
on to the front doorstep, I cart loads of mud and clay
into the house.
Never put off till to-morrow what you can do
to-day! Last month I found, on referring to my diary,
that it was a Friday and a safe and suitable day of the
week —according to the astrologer who cast my horo-
scope—for me not to stay at home. So, with the in-
tention of getting my hair cut, I set out in a dense
fog through the dense scrub for the township. I did
not reach it, however, for, walking rapidly in the
wrong direction —quite a simple matter as there are
several tracks and they all look much alike —fell into
a quarry instead. Result, an injured left foot and leg,
and subsequent expense involved and in detail being:
One month’s loss of earning-power .. .. £2 17 4
Liniment, bandages, painkiller, etc. .. .. 10 6
New trousers .. .. .. .. .. 4 11
Roller skate for right foot, pole for steering
purposes and mast strapped to back,
with lug sail, in order to enable me to
move along tarred footpath .. .. 12 101
Alleged damage to quarry caused by
avalanche which accompanied me in the
descent. Foreman said that, as the
offence was committed while the stone-
cutters were away at lunch, thus not
endangering their lives, and as the
notice “Trespassers Will Be Prosecuted”
was invisible in the fog, he would take
a lenient view of the matter and charge
me only .. .. .. .. .. 15 0
£5 10
I could just as easily have postponed that ill-fated
expedition until the following day, which was fog-
less, if I remember rightly. Had I done so my hair
would have been only about an eighth of an inch
longer and I would not have been limping nor in a
state of unspeakable misery for weeks.
WANTED:
New Story Writers
Each month “The Bulletin” is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in “The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short 1500 t'o 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates
£2 2s. for each 1 000 words.
Closing date for the first of these competi-
tions is July 7. The sooner entries are sent in
the sooner they can be read and the judging
completed.


THE BUCKO MATE
by WILL LAWSON
DRAWING BY SUCH
1 HILE the Boadicea lay at mooring off Ocean
\A / s^anc *’ waiting her turn to load guano, her
W crew deserted. They had been smuggled
away in an American steamer which had
come to the roadstead short-handed, and offered such
good pay the men could not say no. There was
still a score or so of ships in the Trade, but there
was no chance of raising a new crew at Ocean
Island, and without a crew it was useless to load the
ship. So Lynch, the mate, roused out a skeleton
crew of native boys to take her to Funafuti in the
Ellice Group, where there was a safe anchorage and
a chance of getting in touch with other ships and
maybe a crew. There she lay at anchor, swinging
to the island breezes while the weeds grew on her
bottom and the sun blazed down on her decks till
they took on a honey shade for want of holystoning,
and Lynch fumed.
Captain France took matters more calmly. The
Boadicea belonged to him, so he had no owners to
worry him. He found comfort in just living on
board, waiting for a crew, spending much of his
time in drinking whisky and sleeping, with occasional
outbursts of song. Willy J., the second mate, did
not treat the matter very seriously either. Secretly
he had no hope that a crew would ever be got unless
one was sent from San Francisco or Sydney, but
Willy J. did not think much about it —just did what
Black Lynch told him, whatever it might be.
Then out of the blue came a complete crew—
young men sufficiently trained to hand-sail and steer.
Whether they could have reefed down in a gale was
another matter. But they were alert, happy, earnest
youngsters, and the manner of their coming was
miraculous. Lynch heard of them from the trader
at Funafuti, and they came willingly, for they were
survivors of a wrecked barque, the Narwal.
An old-timer, the Narwal had been chartered in
Sydney to carry a scientific expedition of University
men on a cruise through the western Pacific islands,
to take soundings and get submarine specimens and
gather geological data at Ambrym Island. Only a
skeleton crew of trained seamen had been signed
on —a captain, two mates, a carpenter, two A.Bs.,
and a cook and steward. The rest was provided by
twenty-four University undergrads., who jumped at
the chance of working their passages in such a
ship, and they made urgent efforts to slam her along
the seas, racing with the Trades on her quarter, beat-
ing her way off a lee shore or hammering into a storm.
After six months the lads could shin up aloft like
monkeys, tail on to the braces or spread themselves
out on the yards like old shellbacks.
But one night their ship slammed about too much,
and in the morning she was high and dry on the coral,
with holes in her old timbers like the proverbial
church doorways. The ship was abandoned, and the
party made its way to Funafuti in the boats, to meet
the trader of that port, who took them in and sheltered
them, for he saw money for him in their coming,
with the Boadicea wanting a crew. The boys jumped
at the chance to sail her to Newcastle, but the pro-
fessors and afterguard said they would wait for the
mail steamer in two weeks.
Having arranged matters thus far, the trader told
the undergrads, more about Lynch and his ship. “She’s
a hell-ship. Black Lynch, her mate, is a bad man. ’
“Will he sign us on?” was all they asked. “Are
we good enough for a hell-ship?”
The trader assured them they soon would be,
even if they fell short of requirements at first. Then
he went and saw Lynch.
“Sure, I’ll sign ’em on! I’d sign on a wagon-load
of monkeys if you brought ’em along. Tell ’em
I’ll show ’em the way home.”
“Better go easy. They’re University students,
well-connected in Sydney and all that —and full of
fun.”
“They’ll be either sailors or dead men when they
get there. Bring ’em on board and I’ll pay you your
blood-money.”
LATE that afternoon the new crew came aboard
—a fine, sunburned, rowdy lot of youngsters
who looked as if they could eat the Boadicea and
all hands. They quietened down while they were
signed on, with Black Lynch standing beside Willy J.
“No discharges, eh?” he sneered. “Hear that,
mister?”
“I hear,” said Willy J., “but you’ll give ’em good
ones at Newcastle.”
“Oh, yeah,” the mate mocked, trying to terrify
with his glance a bright, sturdy youngster who came
next. “What name?” he snapped.
“Wally Danes —I say, this really is a hell-ship,
eh?” the lad asked. “Golly! We’ll get a kick out
of this.”
“Keep on hopin’. You might get more.”
Danes turned to his mates: “It’s dinkum —she is
a hell-ship, the famous Boadicea.”
“Hooray!” they said.
“Shut your lip and listen!” Black Lynch roared.
“There’ll be no backchat here and no guns. Under-
stand?”
Nobody answered.
“Won’t you speak?” Black Lynch demanded of
Wally Danes.
“Yes, sir. We understand. We’re in a hell-
ship, all in together. We’ll get you there, sailor. This
hell-ship’ll walk home.”
“Look out you don’t walk yourself.”
“You, too, sailor.”
“What’s that?” Lynch roared.
“Happy days, that’s all, sir. We’ll get along O.K.
You could almost be a passenger.”
“Oh, could I? Well” He paused menacingly,
his fist clenched. “Get this, then — I’m the mate! And
get for’ard now and dig in.”
THEY were to sail at daylight, and before the sun
was up next morning the mate was bellowing:
“Show a leg, you rotten rats, show a leg, or 111 come
down and stir you out with a rope’s end!”
As the new crew swung up into the rigging,
Lynch walked forward to where he could watch them
at work. As he passed under the mainyard something
fell, glittering, towards the deck. The mate sprang
back— marlinspikes had been known to fall thus and
kill men. It struck the deck, and he saw that it was
a revolver. He picked it up, broke it and saw that
every chamber was loaded. Then he laid it on the
deck again and hailed the mainyard: Hey, you mad-
faced parasite, you, Danes,” he roared. Come down
here! ”
From his position at the top of the half-dozen
steps leading to the quarter-deck the skipper listened,
grinning. This boy was asking for sudden death.
Willy J., attending to the headsails, looked round,
too, as Danes swung himself lightly down beside the
scowling mate, who was pointing with an accusing
finger at the deck:
“Is that your gun?”
Danes’s hand went quickly to his hip.
“No. I’ve got mine,” he said. “I say, fellers,
any of you lost his gun?”
The mate stared like a man about to have a fit.
“No —no —no,” the chorus came, while Willy
J.’s eyes almost popped from his head.
“Guns!” the mate hissed; “you fellers got guns,
here?” He pointed to the weapon on the deck.
“Gimme that gun—and your own, too, lively now!”
His hand was on his hip, but he did not draw his
gun, lest someone aloft might have him covered.
Like a flash Danes grabbed the gun, sprang up-
right, and before the mate could draw pointed the
weapon at him. “Now give me your gun, he said.
“What?” Murder was in the mate’s eyes. But
he slowly drew his revolver and held it out to the
grinning youngster, who took it with his left hand.
As he did so he called to the steersman: “Cover the
Old Man, Jack, and someone forward watch the
second mate. Walk aft, mister,” he told the mate.
Captain France had started to draw his revolver,
but the helmsman said quietly: “Better not, sir. I’ll
have to shoot if you do.”
The captain didn’t; in any case he still could not
see very well through the whisky fumes, so he awaited
the approach of Black Lynch and his captor to the
quarter-deck.
“Well?” he asked, glaring at Danes.
“Your gun, brother. I hate to trouble you,”
Wally said politely.
Cursing, the captain handed it over.
“They’ve all got guns,” the mate said. “It’s
mutiny on the high seas. They’ll all get gaol.”
“Sed the bucko mate, sed ’e,” Danes mocked, and
the mate’s face went black. In another second he
would have sprung at the youngster in spite of the
guns he held pointed at them. But just then, from
aloft, came a volleying sound of great sails flogging
in the wind.
The mate looked hastily upwards, then turned to
bellow at the steersman. “Keep her away, blast you.
Can’t you watch your sails? You’ll have her aback in
a minute 1 Here” He seized Danes by the
shoulder and the shove he gave him sent the lad
across the deck and half-way down the companion.
“Get forward and tail on to the lee braces. Lee
braces! ” he roared. “All hands lay on. Keep her up,
you lubber 1” he shouted again to the steersman ; and
Like a flash Danes grabbed the gun, sprang
upright, and before the mate could draw
pointed the weapon at him.


the skipper turned to further instruct the latter,
while the mate went on: “Call yourselves sailors?
You’re nothing but old soldiers. Raise a chantey,
damn you all! Spit on your hands and sing and haul! ”
He started singing:
“Ranzo, he was a Noo Yawk tailor —RANZO !
RANZOJ"
At every “Ranzo” he gave a heave that almost
put them on their backs. The great yards came stub-
bornly round till they were hard against the lee-
rigging, while the Boadicea heeled to the wind and
set the foam and spray boiling and flying.
The mate was their chanteyman and they cheered
him when the job was done. “Good old bucko mate,
he’s the one! Hooray for the hell-ship! She’s walking
along now, sir.”
“Aye, we’ll walk you all home. Lay aft and trim
the mizzen yards. Lee braces!”
He had galvanised them into action, violent and
highly efficient for his purposes. Every man was
straining to pull his best while the mate led the
chantey:
“Whisky is the life of man — whisky, Johnny!”
The happy chorus trailed out over the warm, blue,
white-capped sea.
“Step lively, you flamin’ schoolkids!” Lynch
cried, in high good humor with them. If he could
not fight them he could cajole them and make them
work. “Get the gear tidied up shipshape, and there’s
a noggin of rum for every man. To-morrow we’ll
scrape the spars and holystone the decks. She’ll shine
like a dollar then.”
He said no more about their revolvers, though
they were in his mind all the way to Newcastle.
That night one of the other lads asked Wally:
“Whose gun was it that fell?”
“Mine.”
“I thought so. We hadn’t any guns at all, not one
of us.”
FLASH ALICK
BY CON DREW.
50ME of them would-be smart Alicks only go
to the races because they don’t realise how
comfortable they are at home.
Take that flash yahoo who tried to buckle
me and Three-Broad Fred at a Sydney pony meetin’.
We’d landed on the course with nothin’ but a thirst
and were combin’ the ring for a mug. I’ve never seen
it so tough. We were as out of luck as a beef bone
at a dog show.
Just as we were thinkin’ of givin the game a
pass and canvassin’ someone for a drink, we were
pulled up by a flash-lookin’ young gent, with his hat
on the side of his head. His pants were turned up
at the bottom in a two-inch tuck, and spread across
his chest was a watch-chain that would have anchored
H.M.A.S. Australia. We’d passed him a couple of
times in the ring, and he had been screwin’ us off
pretty hard. I think he must have been taken with
Three-Broad’s wide-brimmed felt.
“Do you mind me lookin’ at your racebook?”
he says to Three-Broad, puttin’ over the old, old
bridge.
“Not at all,” says Three-Broad, handin’ it across.
“H’m,” says the flash bloke, runnin’ his eye down
the list of horses. “They’re a poorer lot than I
thought.”
Three-Broad slips me a wink. “Me and my
friend are strangers here, and don’t know the form
very well,” he says.
“If that’s the case,” says the flash bloke, “you’d
better be on Hard Times. The owner is a friend
of mine, and he thinks he is a certainty.”
“I wish I’d met you before,” says Three-Broad.
“I’ve just backed Black Harry.”
“And he’s not a bad horse either,” says Flash
Alick without turnin’ a hair. “My friend was sayin
this mornin’ that if anythin’ beat his horse it would
be Black Harry. Did you put much on him? ’
“Only a tenner,” answers Three-Broad.
“And I’ve got a tenner on Hard Times, ’ laughs
Flash Alick. “I’m half-sorry now that I didn’t split
my wager and have a fiver on your horse.”
No one said anythin’ for a bit. Then Flash Alick
says: “If you fancy my horse at all we could save
a fiver.”
“Save?” says Three-Broad, kiddin’ to look
puzzled.
“Yes, save,” says Flash Alick. “I give you a
fiver if my horse wins and you give me a fiver if
your horse wins.”
“Cripes! It don’t seem a bad idea,” says Three-
Broad, lookin’ at me.
“Good,” says Flash Alick. “Now I’ll leave you
gents for a bit if you don’t mind, and pick you up
before the race. We can watch it together.” And
off he floats.
“You’re not goin’ to waste time with that bloke,
are you?” says Ito Three-Broad. “He hasn’t got
a tenner on Hard Times.”
“Of course he hasn’t,” replies Three-Broad, “and
we ain’t got a tenner on Black Harry.”
“Weil, what’s the sense in takin’ him on?” I asks.
“Oh, we’ll endure him for a little while longer,’
answers Three-Broad. “We might show a profit on
him.”
SOON after that we bumped a bloke we knew
who had backed the previous winner, and spent
a profitable twenty minutes at the bar. Just before
the start of the race we ambled down to the fence.
There was no sign of Flash Alick, of course. He
didn’t turn up until the horses were well on their
journey and Hard Times looked to be out of the
hunt.
“I’ve been lookin’ for you gents everywhere, ’
says he. “Can you see anythin’ of Hard Times?”
“He’s lyin’ second-last,” answers Three-Broad,
“but if he’s as good as your friend says he is he might
win even from there.”
By this time the field had reached the back of
the course, and was chasin’ somethin’ in green.
“That’s Jim Power’s colt Donald,” volunteers
Flash Alick. “He always races to the front.”
Three-Broad says nothin’. We had our lamps
on Black Harry, who was racin’ fourth. The horse
in green stayed in front for a bit, but was swallowed
up by the field as they swooped down the side of the
course. We lost sight of them for a bit while they
dipped into the hollow. When they came to light
again we got the shock of our lives. Black Harry
had bunged himself into second position, and Hard
Times was racin’ fourth.
“We’ve both got a chance now,” says Three-
Broad, turnin’ to Flash Alick.
“Yes,” said the flash bloke, lookin’ a bit uneasy.
As they skimmed round the home turn and
entered the straight Black Harry pushed himself to
the front, and Hard Times ran up to his wheel.
“Whew!” says I to meself, “someone’s got to
tell a hard-up story directly. I hope it ain’t us.”
Up the straight they galloped, beefin’ it out for
all they were worth. And gradually Hard Times was
creepin’ up on the leader. He caught him near the
Leger, and both jockeys sat down on their mounts in
the final dash for home.
“What a race,” says Three-Broad.
“Eh?” says Flash Alick, fiddlin’ with his coat
button.
“I said what a race,” says Three-Broad. “One
of our horses has got to win.”
And you would have bet a thousand frogskins to
a lead two-bob that he was right. But as they passed
the distance and were leatherin’ it out for the judge
a big bay horse empties himself out from the mob and
chases after them. Cripes! I’ve never seen a horse
crack on the pace like he did. He swooped down
on the pair in front, and for every yard they covered
he appeared to be coverin’ two. He was pluggin’ it
out at their girths about twenty yards from home, and
the crowd in the grandstand nearly yelled the roof off.
A few strides more, and he ran up level. A blanket
would have covered the three of them for a couple
of yards, then just as they reached the post the bay
horse shoved his nose in front. The race was over,
“Bad luck,” says Flash Alick as bold as brass.
“Yes, it was bad luck,” agrees Three-Broad.
“I thought we were on a winner.”
“Oh, well, better luck next time,” says Flash
Alick. “I want to have a yarn with Hard Times’s
owner, so I’ll see you gents again.” And with that
he makes himself scarce.
“What was the good of messin’ about with him?
says I to Three-Broad. “He couldn’t produce a fiver
if you squeezed him till he squealed.
“And there’s somethin’ else he couldn’t produce,”
laughs Three-Broad.
“I don’t get you,” says I.
“He couldn’t produce this block and tackle,” says
Three-Broad, holdin’ out Flash Alick’s watch and
chain. “She’s not a bad ’un. Feel the weight of her.”
THE DOGS
BY DOUGLAS STEWART.
FAR away down the valley the black dog heard
the shepherd whistling him home. Darting *
among the sunlit rushes, plunging into the
bright green watercress beside the creek or
flurrying after his companion among the ferns and
dead leaves of the bush near by, he had been happy ;
now the valley was full of shadows as vast and solid
as the hills themselves, a blue mist had come out of
the stream, and the dew on the rushes would soon be
frost. The whistle and the far-off “Here, Roy!”
meant the clink of the chain, water splashing into the
tin, meat; and the long night for sleeping or bark-
ing at nothing because the other dogs barked and
the moon was up. He cocked his ears and listened.
The yellow bitch who also had heard the whistle,
clear above the swishing of the water and the jangle
of blackbirds shrieking their alarm at an owl in the
bush, sprang at the dog and bit him. Her paws clawed
at his ears and she licked his face. He tossed back
his head, but she began to romp in front of him,
leaping and jostling until he could no longer ignore
her, nor wanted to. She led him along the bank of
the creek, tunnelling through the rushes and splash-
ing through swampy pools until they came to the
carcass of a sheep, bloated and sodden, bogged in
the watercress. A hawk sheered up from it in alarm.
The bitch stalked the dead sheep, “setting” it like a
sporting dog a pheasant. She tugged gingerly at the
wet wool, licking at the skin where the hawk had
ripped the fleece away, but it was cold to the tongue,
and neither of the dogs wanted it. With their muzzles
breaking the shining surface so that the black depths
rippled through, they drank the mud-tasting water,
and then loped away into the bush.
The blackbirds had quietened, and though they
could hear the calls of the ewes and the crying of the
new-born lambs, there was no sound from the bush
itself. It was heavy with scents; new leaves and
rotting vegetation; a possum had climbed this tree,
furrowing the lichened bark ; quail had scratched be-
side the lawyer-bush there ; a blackbird, dipping and
rocking like a canoe, had tossed the foam-clots of
dry leaves over its head as it picked for worms. The
dogs began to run, one on each side of the trail
through the bush, hunting each other. When they
met they growled and snapped,
Ahead of the black dog on the cleared spur, the
bitch slipped through the dark-green bracken like a
hare through long grass. He whimpered as he chased
her. She had no shape, she was nothing but move-
ment, vague and swift in the sparkling white dark-
ness. The taint of sheep was everywhere, hanging
on the fern, flowing on the air, reeking up from the
rutty track bitten into the clay, but there was an-
other smell that made the dogs quicken their pace.
When they topped a knoll where the trail was broken
by a totara log, black with dew and greasy at the butt
where the sheep had huddled against it at night, the
reek of earth and blood, sheep and wild pig burned
their nostrils.
Behind the log lay the mutilated carcass of a
ewe. Dead from lambing, or “cast,” still alive, it
had been attacked and partially devoured by a wild
boar. All around it he had rooted up the earth. The
dogs whined and, with their noses close to frosty
ground or upturned clay, ran in circles round the
log, searching for his track.
In the twiggy jungle of tutu scrub clinging to the
steep scarps of clay as precariously as birds to a
windswept bough, they found the boar's wallow. It
was smooth and rounded and stank of droppings. The
bitch lapped at the rivulet that trickled through the
gut, and dashed on. The dog hesitated. Every stick
of tutu told of the boar ; his flanks had muddied the
punga-boles, and the green tongues of the toitois,
rasping in the breeze, clamored of an uphill track he
had taken. The dog leapt into the cutting bushes and
hunted frantically about them. The bitch, who had
swept among the sleeping ewes lower down, startling
the heavy ones to their feet and setting the lambs
bunting at their mothers, joined him at the top of the
ridge.
While the dog was running up and down the
fence-line, sniffing here at the strands of wool that
told that the pushing wethers had foraged into the
burn and there at the wet slide where the pigs had
passed,, she dived into the rough country at the head
of the gully.
He heard her barking, a hoarse, slow sound. But
the noise stopped, and there was neither the squealing
of a young pig nor the enraged grunting of a boar
coming up from the undergrowth as he drew closer.
Only the smell of the bitch, the smell of sheep and
a scuffling sound. He saw the lawyer-bush shaking ;
then a ewe, stupid with terror, butted further into the
mass of thorns that made escape impossible. The
bitch barked to welcome him, then darted into the
bush, snapped, and barked and snapped again. The
black dog growled.
The bitch sank her teeth in this time, and as the
sheep thrust convulsively into the thorns the dog
dived at its heels and bit hard. The bitch scurried
away, and he heard her burrowing towards the ewe
from the far side. His teeth fastened on a leg and
he strained backwards, trying to tug the sheep from
its retreat. The animal struggled further into the
bush, and the bitch, her eyes blazing in the dark,
snarled and worked towards it.
On the hillside and down in the valley the ewes
began to bleat, and files of them, like white cataracts
down the trails, tumbled jerkily away from the flurry
in the lawyer-bush. On the opposite spur, and in the
dark bush below, other sheep awoke, until the night-
air was filled with the deep, anxious notes of the ewes
and the crying of the lambs. A dog, chained by the
far-off hut, barked with a heavy sound, like the ring
of axe on totara. The bitch heard it as she emerged
from the bush on to the crest of the ridge again, but
she raced pell-mell down the slope after the sheep.
The black dog stopped to listen, as he had listened to
the whistle of the shepherd. He was afraid of what
had happened in the lawyer-bush. As if he were
being watched he slunk away among the bracken on
the track home, but on the knoll where the ewe the
boar had savaged lay in the strong-smelling clay he
paused. On the hillside below he could see the bitch
still harrying the sheep. He squatted on his haunches,
watching her and whining.


Following
FIFTH YEAR’S ENTRIES FOR THE S. H. PRIOR MEMORIAL PRIZE.
re the titles of MSS. and pen-names of authors competing for the fifth (1939) years award of the Prize
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
According to Pilate Castjeton
Adventures of Sniffle and Snuffle Thea Willard
Amber Creek Sundowner
And All the Trees Are Green Rix
Anthony Lorring No. 777
Arcis Donum Vandho
Australians: The First Century .... Lavengro
Australia’s Major Poets Garawarra
Banker on the Loose, A ■ Mac
Battling Through Fossicker
Bim Ky-een
Blossom Brown McPat
Bravina of Lemuria Herbert Partridge
Bug in the Tinsel Coat, The .. Question Mark
Bullawarra Sintram
Burnt Offering, The .. .: Gemini
Bush Pub, The October Day
But You Aren’t Sorry Wyanga
Cebede Lottery
Chalk in the Bush Cathel
Cherubim Wanderlust
Children of Men Hawes
Children of the Winds and the Seas
Rabbit’s Foot
Christology of Clement of Alexandria
Protrepticus
Cooljak Lavengro
Corroboree Call, The Kamerinji
Cupid’s Comedy Omega
Daughter of the Earth No. 7
Dawn Archer
Day’s Work, The Arrino
Dear Michael Bushwhacker
Dearest Amelia Tutamen
Delight and After Joesf Donne
Duck Williams Sunspot
Earth Turns Over, The Ezra
Eureka Harry Gilmore
Excellent Wisdom, The Rose Williams
Falling Leaves Robert Flynn
Finished Twit Twat
Forgive Us Our Virtues Justin
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
From One Generation .. Te Akarana
Full Circle . Salt Bush
Glenedra Boori
Great Australian, A Historicus
Green Toy, The Mungana
Group of Three Short Stories, A .... Webster
Gundahri . Elgin
Henry Lawson Fossicker
Heritage Regained, A Decima
His Majesty’s Pleasure Lone Pine
Hope and Treasure Edwardian
House Kiap Mandate
Humoresque Tex Tanner
Impasse Telemachus
In a Sydney Suburb, 1894 Kauri
Jane Calls for Will Archer .. Stewart Thistleton
Joan Nomad
Joe Bennett Douglas Onchon
King of the Cattle Kings Anxiety
Kingdom in the Valley .. Sanderson Pelhurst
Kiora Fairhaven
Koolpinyah Linkerton
Lachlan Macquarie Narine Cubby
Landseeker, The Stoorabug
Lantana Geoffrey North
Leaves in the Wind Fray Bentos
Love Conquers Treachery Raffee Slot
Man from the Ghost Country Rosella
Man on Earth Spinifex
Marginal Lands Eric Ford
Max Foster of Greendale Leo Sakhrat
Medley of Trivial Things, A . Mary Rawlstone
Mender of Hearts, A Sophie Donald
Minister’s Daughter, The Neptune
Miriama Wairua
Miscellanea Castalian
Modern Martyr, A Weeroona
Morale Sang
Most Beautiful Thing, The Viminalis
Mountain Between, The International
New Holland ; • Scisssors
Night in Cavernland, A Nihil Expectaus
* Denotes no sealed envelope containing name
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
No More Dominion Pakeha
North of the Counties Dene Prague
Notes on History Le Revenant
Obscurity to Fame Wilda Jeanea
Omnipotence of Adam, The E.G.O.
One Half So Precious Aphrodite
Open Plains, The Orient
Or Did It? . Helen Heathen
Out of Loubyanka Tembus
Out of the Vanishing H.D.H,
Papuan Achievement, The Lagado
Patriots All John Sydney
Perhaps I’m Lucky Gulliver
Poker Players, The Marie Starr
Pommies Overlander
Portrait of a Savage Sepik
Quadroon Girl, The .... Moyah Kay
Queen of Wamberah Here It Is
Rain Must Fall Beryl Lee
Rata Blooms Red Huia
Raw, Red War, A Salud Aragon
Reggie Rhooster E. S. N. Orpington
Rivers Run West, The H.C.C.
Rope of Sand, A Alec Lawrence
Rosemary Ex Ped.
Safe Majority Gwynne Sippe
Saturday in September 604
School in the Tenth Millennium
William Benbow
Seasons in Their Courses, The .. Autumn Tide
Second Moses, A John Trine
Settling at Worrio • • • Scrub Dodger
Seventh Class Prisoner, The Harry yal
Shanes of Old Derrig Ajax
Shellback’s Log, A Pendragon
Shoreless , The ................ S. Karpinsky
Skyline I*
Sleeping Partner, The A.CAV.
Snapdragon •• joe Bee
Son of Cover, The John Midland
South of Suez Julian Codings
and address of author received with entry.
TITLE. NOM DE PLUME.
Staccato Terry
Stormy Petrel Olaf Reicher
Strangq Countree Contajanderrah
Street of Dreams, The Chide
Take a Chance Bellarius
Tales by the Gunyah Fire Ambrym
Tapestry H. O. Barton
Tasmanian Tapestry Biondello
Tell the World .. Taurus
Templetons, The M.A.
There Is No Escape Vortex
There's Always To-morrow .. Jonothan Dale
There’s Gold in the Mountain .... Terawhiti
These Alverston People Rose Dallison
These Essentials Halley
They Simply Fade Away Don Zedzed
This Dear Earth .. North Wind
This Piece of Earth Pinderee
Till the Dawn of To-morrow .. Francis Hubert
Tramp on Wheels, A Margaret Lutton
Trespass My Tallest Pines
Trouble on the Barcoo Killorglin
Two Grains of Wheat Henry Richard
Under Eight Headmasters .. Herbert Partridge
Under the Camouflage Aristophanes
Under the Swingle Tree Vida Thomas
Unjust Retribution, An ... Elizabeth Gilmour
Unknown Influence, The Tex Tanner
Ventura Gwydir
Voice of Australia ••• Skibo
Wanting a Cab, Sir? Willie Dooit
Warra Ray wood Burn
*Was It Fate ? ..... Biddie Doran
Wealth of Mortals, The Adam Smithson
White and Colored Policy, A .... Nor’-wester
Who Was Joseph Furphy ? .. The Glowworm
William Grant Broughton * Aquaries
With Thanks to the Donor Peter Pan
Words of the Earth 1 9 ur !^X a
Yoked Oxen Wollondilly
Young Man Lives in Gordon-street, A Paulas
Zig Zag Traveller 44
Pacific Flight described Smithy’s splendid flying in
some of the finest passages of all literature of the air.
In his latest book there is further graphic description
of Smithy’s flying. In the early part Smithy is the
book’s hero, which is very much to the good, apart
from any question of deserts, because it enables the
author to set down his own part of that nearly-
disastrous Tasman flight. Quite evidently Captain
Taylor has a sense of dramatic values ; the fact is that
he is an excellent writer as well as being an outstand-
ing airman. He describes his own part on the flight
—one of the most heroic feats in flying history—
and the book could not have been written without
that record ; but all the time he keeps the focus of
dramatic interest on Smithy, the master at the con-
trols. Thus:
For five hours Smithy had kept the Cross balanced
on a knife-edge, juggled with the starboard propeller
to prevent its turning, taken her down to the sea
to give me sights, worked her laboriously up again to
500 ft. to have something in hand, and had kept her dead
on the compass course. He lived and felt with his
machine every effort of her struggle against appalling
odds.
Or he describes how Smithy would “haul the Cross up
on her tail and let her claw at the air in an out-
rageous attitude until the propeller slowed and
stopped”:
While he went through this astonishing performance
the Cross would sag through the air, sinking towards
the sea, almost like a parachute, the Fokker wing con-
triving to find some support from the air at a speed and
attitude which would mean an absolutely catastrophic
stall for the wings of many aeroplanes. It seemed that
he held her, floating about in the air, sinking, through
sheer lack of speed to keep her afloat, but always under
control, and trying with all she had, to keep in flight.
Also of Smithy’s flying of the Southern Cross :
He is, literally, holding her in the air with his hands
and feet, juggling, coaxing her to do it, and getting the
extra response nobody else could get from his machine.
Yet, for all his manipulating of the spotlight in
these and like appreciations of Smithy’s sheer genius,
it is his own splendid action, without which the three
of them would have plunged to their end in the Tasman,
which stands out. With one of the three engines out of
action, there was oil in the starboard tank, “just lying
there, while the gauge runs out like the sands of time.”
Suddenly all reason, logic, dread, fear and every
emotion leaves me and is replaced by a strange feeling
of elation; an obsession which will listen to the prompt-
ing of no reaction but itself:
“Get the oil from the starboard tank quickly. Get
it! Get it!”
I slip below to the cabin, take off my shoes, belt
up my coat tightly, unlash some light line that is hold-
ing the mailbags, duck back to the cockpit, and shout
to Smithy:
“Going to have a stab at getting some oil.”
He shakes his head, indicating not to try, but the
obsession drives me with a strange confidence and
the decision is a fixture in my mind.
No account written at the time compares in
dramatic force with his own description of how he
managed to make his perilous way out on the wing,
open the tank, get some of the oil in a vacuum-flask
container, back to the cockpit, then out along the
other wing to empty the oil into the port tank. Told
with cross references to the parts being simul-
taneously played by Smithy and Stannage, it is a vital
and thrilling story. When he had emptied the oil into
the port tank there was a moment of suspense. “It
might not be shortage of oil in the tank after all . . .
Perhaps some failure in the system, and all this for
nothing.” Then:
Shouts and waving from the cockpit Pressure!
Oil-pressure on the gauge. John Stannage holds his
hands out with his thumbs up, makes signs of the
pressure going up.
He had, of course, to perform his heroic feat not
once but several times. In outline the story is well-
known. In his telling it gains a new strength and
meaning. Then to listen to the armchair critics —no
wonder he lashes them. After that again, realisation
that attempts at serious air development were, at the
time, a futile waste of effort. So, for the time being,
good-bye to constructive flying ; as an antidote, “a
more light-hearted view of aviation,” expressed in such
employment as flying through the night from Mel-
bourne to Sydney and on to Brisbane with newspaper
pictures of the Melbourne Cup!
Wholesale Homicide.
Lee Mappin, the rotund, sleek little amateur
detective of Hulbert Footner’s The Nation’s Missing
Guest (Collins; Dymock’s), is a worthy representative
of the great family of Dupin, Holmes and Wimsey.
The story is thrilling and ingenious. It is true that
it lacks the usual ingredient of a corpse—or, to be
exact, the corpse that one expects to play the main
foundation for the story —but that small deficiency
is more than made up for by its variety of incident,
its constant change of scene and adventure and its
series of surprises.
A young reigning Sultan of an Arabian province
under the protection of England visits the United
States as the guest of the American nation. His
previous Oxford friendship with Luke Imbrie, the
narrator of the tale, causes him to engage Luke as
his personal adviser and attendant during the tour
at a fat fee and unlimited expenses —a situation which,
as Luke is merely a young and unknown lawyer with
little prospects, naturally causes that young man
anticipatory excitement of a high order.
His anticipations are more than realised, for he
himself, almost immediately after the arrival of the
young Sultan, is knocked out, bound and gagged, and
his royal protege abducted, together with about a
million’s worth of jewellery, from under the very
noses of the Federal police. Moreover, a young and
beautiful English girl, the Sultan’s fiancee, but with
whom Luke manages almost immediately to fall in
love, also disappears. How Luke, after escaping from
his bondage, trails and, with the assistance of Lee
Mappin, ultimately finds the nation’s guest, and man-
ages at the same time to secure the lovely Diana for
himself, provides material for an exciting yarn.
Characters in R. Austin Freeman’s The Stone-
ware Monkey (Hodder and Stoughton ; Dymock’s) are
the incomparable Dr. Thorndyke, Christopher Jarvis,
the Watson to his Holmes, and several other char-
acters associated with the amateur sleuth who is the
greatest exponent of scientific detection in English
crime fiction. As usual, Austin Freeman has a novel
method of disposing of his corpse, and in addition
he has succeeded in providing one of the most sur-
prising denouements in the whole long list of his
novels. And that is saying something. Yet, on look-
ing back, every incident and clue fits in entirely with
the solution as provided by Thorndyke.
The Clock in the Hat Box, by Anthony Gilbert
(Collins; Dymock’s), is both original in conception
and very well told. Gilbert has written many good
yarns, but this one is probably the most intriguing
and uncommon of them all. In fact, its style rises
at times to actual brilliance, while there is a touch
of sardonic humor throughout that gives it a savor
unusual among thrillers. The plot is founded on the
trial of Viola Ross for the murder of her husband,
but develops later into a much more comprehensive
and involved affair. The story is supposed to be told
by one of the jury called upon to try the lady—a
young man who, by his unshakable conviction that
she is not guilty, manages to secure a disagreement
and eventually, as it seems, the proof of her innocence.
Incidents are as logical and denouement as unex-
pected as in any book of its class.
Such Natural Deaths (Collins ; Dymock’s) is by
Lindsay Anson, a name previously unknown to this
reviewer. If, as appears to be the case, it is a first
novel, it deserves every commendation, both for its
manner and its matter. There is no detective in it,
the party on whom is thrust the duty of elucidating
its many mysteries being a young London reporter ;
but to make up for this omission it has a plethora
of murders. It is written with considerable humor,
and there is a love affair intertwined with its thrills
that, so far from hindering, actually increases the
speed of the action, while at the same time it assists
the development of the plot and gives a pleasant
exhilaration to the whole affair. The climax, as it
should be, is both surprising and well worked up,
while the long arm of coincidence, although at times
a trifle overstretched, is not allowed to work over-
time to such a degree as to become unnatural.
Plunging Frogs.
From a Japanese living in Sydney I have three
hokku which, as far as I know, haven’t been translated
before. Only one, about a tombo-hunter, can give
much of an impression of poetry to Western eyes or
ears, and that one, like a Chinese poem Ezra Pound
rendered into English, needs to be explained before
it is read. The tombo is a large winged insect, and
hunting it is one of the favorite sports of Japanese
children. The poet, whose only child has died,
laments:
Tombo-hunter:
How far he has gone
To-day.
It seems a good example of the type of hokku
that is admired for the subtlety with which sentiment
or philosophy is conveyed. The method —the avoid-
ance of the direct statement —is the Chinese method,
Pound’s version of Rikahu is:
The jewelled steps are already quite white with dew,
It is so late that the dew soaks my gauze stockings,
And I let down the crystal curtain
And watch the moon through the clear autumn.
And the explanation:
Jewel stairs, therefore a palace. Grievance, there-
fore something to complain of. Gauze stockings,
therefore a Court lady, not a servant, who complains.
Clear autumn, therefore he has no excuse on account
of weather. Also she has come early, for the dew has
not merely whitened the stairs but has soaked her
stockings. The poem is especially prized because she
utters no direct reproach.
The other two hokku given me were landscape i.
Pound seems to have imitated the Japanese directly
in such oddments as:
The apparition of these faces in the crowd;
Petals on a wet, black bough,
for the same sharp impressionism, achieved mainly by
contrast, is the intention in the genuine hokku : —
Land in the rainy season:
Before a wide river,
Two houses;
and in:
All the pond
Plunging frogs:
Sound of water.
Apparently in the original these have all the
qualities of a good hokku. They are arranged in the
correct sequence of five syllables followed by seven
in the next line and five in the third, and they are
distingushed from a bad poem by their imaginative
daring and the clarity of the picture. The one about
the frogs excited my Japanese to an enthusiastic ac-
count of the clouds, the reeds, the still water and the
Sudden movement and sound it called to his mind.
| He told me three other things that interested
me: that it’s easier for him to read Arthur Waley’s
'translations than to tackle the early Japanese poets in
the original (presumably they offer the same difficul-
ties as Chaucer does in English) ; that modernists
have “ruined” the hokku form by introducing an un-
limited number of extra syllables ; and that his favor-
ite poem in English (probably because it’s a series of
images not unlike hokku) is Shelley’s “Skylark.” His
plunging frogs rather reminded me of verses by Rex
Ingamells that have appeared in The Bulletin : there
is a resemblance in the feeling for nature, the minute
observation, the sense of contrast and the total effect
of a brief, clear picture.
I’m glad that Ingamells sticks to English verse
forms. The hokku, even in its 5-7-5 arrangement, is
appallingly tempting:
On the bare table
Lo! inkwell and beer-bottle:
Guess which is empty.
MAcH.


GRACE BROS
WINTER
fs
dsd
SALE
REMARKABLE
OFFER /
too
ONLY!
•
Discontinued numbers
from our regular range
are being offered as a
Sale Special.
Take advantage of the
Lay-by System; it was
introduced for your
convenience.
6nci!k’B
G,
m
♦
6
%
SB
USUAL PRICE £B/8/-
REDUCED TO £7/10/- LESS
10%
PRICE
£6ls'
NETT
CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED
IN
LONDON
Take advantage of
this unique offer,
which includes
Greys, Fawns and
Navy English
Worsted in a large
number of fittings,
and each garment
is in perfect con-
dition.
100 only! MEN’S
USUAL PRICE £7/10/-, £6/IQ/-
REDUCED TO - - - £5/10/-
Tailored from Genuine Cowhides of uniform thickness and highest grade in Rich Dark Brown shades. Lined
throughout with British Cotton Check. Through pockets, detachable belt, two-way collar. WINDPROOF
. . . RAINPROOF . . . COLDPROOF.
Take advantage of this considerable saving. Every coat in perfect condition.
LEATHER TOPCOATS
LESS 10%
f4 / l9'-
NETT PRICE
100 only! ENGLISH TWEED TOPCOATS
USUAL PRICE - - - ■ £6/10/-
REDUCED TO - - - £5/17/6
LESS 10%
t 5' 5
L
NETT PRICE
Tailored from High Grade English Tweeds in the Smart Double-breasted Chesterfield Style and also Raglan
Models. Every coat is of distinctive design and shade and New Season’s stock. Greys, Browns and Fawns
prevail. The mildness of the winter is responsible for this clearance.
Without Exception!
THE WHOLE OF THE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE 10%
SALE DISCOUNT. THIS
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, T °r C „„lr’
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.
m
m
m
_J
mmm
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 6506.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
j4ffhti T'dmof’mfa mellcimeMxmdslvuq/uet
THE ROYAL MINT.
There are some who, perhaps understand-
ably enough, regard the Royal Mint,
on Tower Hill, as the most important
and interesting “thing” London possesses.
Neither its importance nor interest may
be questioned, for here the coinage of
the realm is managed; bullion assayed
and manufactured into specie, or
money, for interchange in commerce
and in all adjustments of business or
traffic between man and man. In
other words, it is the great “factory”
from which proceeds in a never-ending
stream that metallic element which, an
old song not economically inaptly
affirmed, “makes the world go round.”
This handsome and imposing edifice,
designed and executed in Grecian style
from plans by Sir Robert Smirke in
1811, replaced the establishment in the
adjacent Tower of London, and occupies
a site of the old tobacco warehouses.
The Royal Mint is an older institution
than many imagine. It attained its con-
stitution of superior officers in the
eighteenth year of the reign of Edward
11., or in 1325, and with but few altera-
tions continued as then established until
1815. In October of that year a disas-
trous fire occurred whereby the eastern
and southern wings of the building were
unroofed and the interior containing the
machinery destroyed. No visitor to
London should fail to make a tour of
the Mint. The really marvellous mechan-
ism by which gold and silver coins are
manufactured has often been described,
and requires here no further reference.
Associated with the Royal Mint are other
matters which, in these days of “finan-
cial uncertainty”—a not-too-satisfactory
expression—deserve passing notice. The
price of gold has ever been a matter of
more than ordinary concern, even as to-
day. The term “guinea,” still exerting
all the force of a coin of the realm,
especially with members of two learned
professions, is in its genesis, so to speak,
a child of the Royal Mint. Sir Isaac
Newton, the most distinguished Master
that establishment ever had, in Septem-
ber, 1717, presented his report to the
House of Lords, stating in his opinion that gold was considerably overrated in the Mint with respect to silver. In consequence of this report,
the guinea was, by proclamation dated December 22, 1717, declared current at 21/-. It is of importance to note the effect produced upon
the price of gold by this proclamation, proving that the silver currency had not operated as the standard of value during the period in question
(1710-17). On the guinea becoming legal tender the price of gold became fixed at £3/17/10-} per ounce at the Mint. Fifty to sixty years ago
a proposal was advanced to build a new Mint on the Thames Embankment and have the present one pulled down. Happily it came to nothing.
Bronze coinage is made at Birmingham. The Royal Mint supplies not only the gold and silver currency for Great Britain, but for the Colonies
and other Dependencies of the Empire, and also for several foreign Governments. A century ago the Tower Moat contained water, as seen in the
illustration, ■ *


FEEDING-TIME.
“Mr. Menzies, making his first Loan Council appearance as P.M. and Treasurer, was faced with enormous demands on the part of State Treasurers, Mr. Stevens, as usual,
being the greediest of the lot.”


The Belletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch (Tils.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 7 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
ARE WE JUST “COLONIALS”?
Mr. Menzies has been warning businessmen —with-
out blaming newspapers or radio blah-merchants —
against giving way to “war jitters.” The Menzies
Government, Mr. Gullett says, “feels confident that the
present efforts of the British Government in Europe,”
efforts which his Government supports, “will prove the
quickest and most effective way of advancing” his
Government’s “policy of peace in the Pacific.”
Mr. Gullett’s Government, it seems, is opposed
to the encirclement of “any particular country.” It is
sure “a defensive agreement with Russia would have no
application outside Europe” and “would not prejudice
the interests of Japan.” Out of the European settle-
ment aimed at “Japan could not fail to secure pro-
found relief.”
All this is interesting without being altogether
convincing. In manner and matter, statements on
foreign affairs have improved, but there is room for
more improvement. Australians who believe in Aus-
tralia and don’t take their politics from Geneva,
Moscow or even London, would like to see the Men-
zies Government more active and bold in the asser-
tion of Australian rights and interests, preferably in
association with the Governments of the other
Dominions, which have similar rights and interests,
the greatest of which is the preservation of peace.
We are told that the British Government keeps the
Commonwealth Government in touch with what it is
doing, and no doubt the Governments of the other
Dominions are likewise fully informed. And Joseph
Chamberlain’s son may be given credit for a deter-
mination to protect the Dominions against involve-
ment in a war which, for them, would be wholly
unnecessary. When he went to Munich and accepted
the inevitable, at some sacrifice of pride, he assuredly
had the Dominions in mind.
But Mr. Chamberlain has been forced by the
pressure of events and of public opinion—exposed as
never before to the influences of propagandists and
other liars —to introduce a hazardous change in
foreign policy. His stocks have slumped. His Govern-
ment has been losing by-elections. It may have to go
to the country this year. He is an old and troubled
man, and his powers may fail as suddenly as did
those of his father. Another affair like that of Albania
or Tientsin might bring him down.
At best, Mr. Chamberlain can scarcely expect to
see another two years out as Prime Minister. When
he goes he may possibly be succeeded by Mr. Eden
or Mr. Churchill or —more possibly—by someone who
thinks a great deal more of Mr. Eden or Mr. Churchill
than Mr. Chamberlain does. Or there may be a Labor
Government, headed by Mr. Attlee, who was so pas-
sionate for intervention in Spain on the side that lost
(there was a Major Attlee Battalion of Reds), and with
Mr. Dalton as Foreign Minister and Sir Stafford
Cripps leading a Ginger Group.
For the Dominions any such Government would
be a choice of evils. It would be composed of Minis-
ters and supported by politicians and newspaper
editors who don’t care two straws for the Dominions
and rarely mention them in their speeches or writings.
To the Edens, Churchills, Attlees, Sinclairs, some Con-
servative and all Liberal and Labor editors, the
Dominions are still “colonies” inhabited by an in-
ferior people, whose duty it is to accept with doglike
humility whatever their betters in London prescribe
for them, even war.
This attitude is most curious, and the lack of
imagination it evinces—gratitude may be left out of
the argument —is appalling.
After all, the Dominions, separately as well as
collectively, cut a more considerable figure in the
world than foreign nations on which Britain has been
showering favors, while giving the representative of
loyal Maoriland an icy reception. Canada cannot be
placed second to Turkey or Rumania. Australia is
at least equal to Yugoslavia and miles ahead of
Greece. South Africa and Maoriland may be com-
pared, in no way to their disadvantage, with Bulgaria.
Collectively the Dominions, even now, almost amount
to a Great Power, and if their future is not darkened
by war or the constant fear of war they will be among
the Great Powers —Canada and Australia perhaps
separately'— at no distant date. Yet while the necessity
of defending Turks, Greeks, Poles, Rumanians and
now Russians is insisted upon by British politicians
and newspapers, the views of the Dominions on the
alleged necessity are never sought in these quarters,
nor even remotely discussed. It is coolly taken for
granted that the Dominions will share in the fighting.
Strange as it may seem to proud patricians at
Westminster and meddling scribblers in Fleet-street,
the peoples of the Dominions don’t want to fight for
Turks, Greeks, Poles, Rumanians or Russians. Jo
Australians who have cleared their minds of the cant
of Jingoism, colonialism, Leagueism, internationalism
—in the Red or Pink form —changes on the map
of Central and Eastern Europe are of small conse-
quence. They learned at school that such changes
have occurred on many occasions in times past and,
since history repeats itself —though rarely in the same
way —are likely to occur, perhaps as often, in times to
come.
Leaving Great War changes out of account,
middle-aged men can remember when Austria grabbed
Bosnia and Herzegovina in contempt of a treaty to
which Britain was a party, and when Italy, Greece
and Serbia seized parts of Turkey, regardless of British
opinion. And old men can recall Tsarist Russia
aggrandising itself at Turkey’s expense in violation of
article after article of the instrument forced on it after
the Crimean campaign.
Some bush philosopher might even suggest that
if the British had been placed in the situation —geo-
graphical and all —in which the Germans found them-
selves in 1919 and afterwards, they would have done
everything the Germans have done. Yes, everything,
from the union of their sundered race to the recovery
of their ancient (Bohemian and Moravian) territories,
save only the persecution of the Jews The bush philo-
sopher might add that said persecution, though a blot
on the German name, was mild compared with what
Jews have suffered in Poland and in Russia: one
“our ally,” the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” claims
(though Poland is no ally of the Australian Common-
wealth), and the other offered a British alliance.
Indeed, the bush philosopher might proceed to
argue that Britain and the Dominions are none the
worse for anything that has happened in Central or
Eastern Europe, and that nothing of the kind would
have happened but for the follies committed by
League-deluded Governments, which let the defences
rot, and completed their crazy work by thrusting
Mussolini into Hitler’s arms. Before he was sure of
Italy, Hitler did not dare to move. Until Mr. Eden
came along, Italy ate out of Britain’s hands. To the
Italian the German was for centuries the oppressor,
and even now there is no real bond of union between
them, nor any real bond of union between Italy or
Germany and Japan—possessor of the Marshall and
Caroline islands that were German.
In any case, the danger of an Axis attack on
Britain seems grossly exaggerated. If a plan exists it
must have existed last September, when Britain was
still tragically unprepared, and the attack would have
been launched then, instead of being delayed so that
John Bull, with his immense resources and wonderful
powers of improvisation, would have at least ten
months to get ready. Not a rood of British ground
has been taken. Britons are still free —free even to
call the leaders of the Axis Powers “gangsters,” a
privilege eagerly availed of by abusive little strip-
tease rags like the “Daily Mirror.” British pride has
certainly been wounded, but wounded pride is not a
thing to go to war about.
In the case of Soviet Russia the Conservative
party has chosen to swallow its pride—the Labor and
Liberal parties had none to swallow. If the Dominions
could be sure that a Russian alliance would in no
conceivable circumstances concern them, they might
be content to let the thing go, while inwardly mar-
velling at the change that has come over the Conser-
vative scene, but they can’t be sure that it won’t con-
cern them. It may not be within the power of the
parties to the proposed alliance to restrict it to Europe.
In the present temper of the Japanese, whose attitude
to Australia, however violent their proceedings in
China, has always be£n correct, and on the whole
friendly, it may be construed by generals, admirals
and statesmen over whom neither Britons nor Soviet
Russians have the slightest control as a threat to
Japan. And Japan has great sea-power in the Pacific ;
Soviet Russia so little that in 20 years not one Soviet
warship, nor even a Soviet merchantman, has been
seen in Port Jackson or Hobson’s Bay.
No alliance with a country deficient in sea-power
is worth a rap to Australia, Maoriland or Canada. It
might possibly be an asset to the English, who can’t
be attacked from the North Pacific ; to the Dominions
it could be a dangerous liability.
Little as Australians are told of what Canadian
and South African Governments are saying in these
times (the Maoriland Government is too immersed in
troubles of its own creation to say anything) they
have been permitted to learn in one-inch paragraphs
that Mr. Mackenzie King said, very pointedly, that
Canada would not send troops to Europe every 20
years or so “to help to run a Continent that cannot
run itself” and that Mr. Hertzog intimated that his
country didn’t consider itself bound by Britain’s Euro-
pean engagements. Australia is in a different position
from Canada —securely protected by the U.S.A. —and
from South Africa —fairly safe from naval attack—
and it may be that its Government can’t say as much
as it would like to say. But at the least the Govern-
ment should make the strongest representations to the
British Government against entangling alliances which
could do this country no good and might do it infinite
harm. It is not only the guardian of the present Aus-
tralian nation, which is still most inadequately
defended ; it is the trustee for the great Australian
nation of the future.
Touching a Thorny Problem.
About a year ago a staff writer on London Evening
Standard” wrote an article pointing out some of the
dangers of the migration of Continental Jews to Eng-
land. Letters to the editor —mostly hostile filled a page
of the paper every day for a week. Not all the hostile
ones were written by Jews; sympathy at the time was
running high—Jews cannot complain that they have
not had a wonderful “press” these past few years.
Since then there have been spasmodic outbreaks
in English newspapers —not many, but, considering
the general press taboo on the subject, very significant.
One, from the “Daily Express,” was lately included
in “Uncabled Additions.” Its writer dealt flippantly
with the invasion of St. John’s Wood, London, by
foreigners in no way “timid or subservient.” Their
ambition seemed to be “to build a new non-Nazi
Berlin in St. John’s Wood” ; “we natives are becoming
a minority problem in our own suburb,” where a
mixture of foreign tongues is the common speech of
the buses and the streets.”
Much of that could be written of King’s Cross,
Sydney, to-day. All of it may hold good there by the
time Australia—which in this matter mostly means
Sydney—has absorbed its volunteered quota of 15,000
inside three years, thereby setting an example to
every other country in the world. The writing on
the subject will not all be flippant; there have been
some pretty savage utterances by affected parties
already. Neither are all the English writings flippant,
though that veneer usually covers English press articles.
More serious rumblings are appearing in book form.
Judging from these writers, John Bull already has
a Jewish problem on his hands, apart from
the one in Palestine. The picture of present-day Lon-
don presented by journalist-author Douglas Reed, for
example, might well astonish English exiles in these
parts, and should make others think. Mr. Reed will
be accused of anti-Semitism, as everybody is who deals
with the subject other than sentimentally ; but he has
an answer for that. He points out that not anti-
Semitism but anti-Gentilism came first. Hitler’s
Nuremberg anti-Jewish laws, with their ban on inter-
marriage, are “only the translation into German of
the Jews’ own Mosaic laws.”
Race-antagonism began, not with the Gentiles, but
with the Jews. Their religion is based on it. This
racial lunacy which you detest in the Germans has
possessed the Jews for thousands of years. When they
become powerful, they practise it; as they consolidate
their position in one trade after another, in one profes-
sion or another, the squeeze-out of Gentiles begins. That
was why you found, in Berlin and Vienna and Budapest
and Prague and Bucharest, newspapers with hardly a
Gentile on the editorial staff, theatres owned and
managed by Jews presenting Jewish actors and actresses
in Jewish plays praised by the Jewish critics of Jewish
newspapers, whole streets with hardly a non-Jewish
shop in them, whole branches of trade monopolised
by Jews.
He instances Hungary as a present notorious
Continental example of Jewish dominance at the ex-
pense of the non-Jewish inhabitants. Since he paints
a like picture of Jewish dominance in Berlin, Vienna
and elsewhere before anti-Semitism broke out in
violent reaction, disastrous to the Jews, his Hungarian
depiction may have ominous significance.
He asserts that the Jews in Hungary are richer
and more powerfully established than ever before. They
own 46 p.c. of all industrial undertakings; man 70 p.c.
of the boards of all companies representing big busi-
ness. Of the bigger estates, 17.6 p.c. were in Jewish
hands when he was there in 1938 ; 34.4 p.c. of all
doctors were Jews, 49.2 p.c. of all lawyers, 31.6 p.c.
of all journalists. All privately-owned theatres were
Jewish ; of 336 names on the boards of the 20 leading
industrial undertakings 235 were Jewish; 290 of the
biggest industrial concerns in Hungary were under the
control of the 10 biggest banks, and of 319 names on
the bank boards 223 were Jewish.
The contrast between this strongly entrenched
Jewish community, all its units earning a good living,
and the poverty of the workers in outer Budapest, of
the peasants in many parts, is striking and depressing.
He describes it as a “new tyranny” ; indicates
how —as nobody needs telling—it was smashed up in
Germany, Austria and elsewhere; declares that the
problem that has to be solved is that “the Jews, given
full equality of opportunity, use it to oust the others
and acquire the status of a privileged class.” This is.
what he asserts is now fast happening in London,
where he finds some of the things he sees “sinister
and ominous.” He suggest that “the Jews have a part
to play if anti-Semitism is to be killed.”
In London to-day they are doing just what they
did in Berlin. They are deserting the East, flooding
the West, flooding Hampstead and Maida Vale, squeez-
ing out, flaunting.
He says that “London seems to have taken over
the human bad debts of half Europe.” After having
been out of England for some years he was “stag- •
gered by the change for the worse”; it is “as if a drag-
net had been cast over Berlin and Vienna and Buda-
pest and Prague and Naples and Warsaw and Cracow,
and the catch dumped down here.”
He gives numerous individual instances; one of
a Jew of some Eastern European birthplace, a jour-
nalist who had in turn supplied “the German view”
from Berlin, “the Austrian view” from Vienna, “the
Czechoslovak view” from Prague.
Soon this man will be giving the world “the English
view,” writing about the intense indignation that
English people feel at the things that Germany does.
A.B.C. itself is getting “news commentaries” done by
“an international journalist” from Frankfort-on-the-
Main.
What most irritates this English observer, how-
ever, and what he finds most ominous, is the ostenta-
tious flaunting in the hotel lounges, Piccadilly
restaurants and elsewhere. He is bitter about it in
view of the other side of the picture:
There are nearly two million unemployed in Eng-
land, millions of English people are living in conditions
that disgrace the richest country in the world, and it
isn’t good enough.
This is only part of his indictment, and not by any
means the worst of it. “Distrusting the fiction that


Jews are Germans or Englishmen,” and accepting the
view, held also by a considerable school of Jewish
thought, that “Jews are Jews and unassimilable,” he
can see a solution of the problem only in “the setting
up somewhere of a National Jewish State of which all
Jews should be subjects.” This, he believes, would be
the only way “to settle this eternal wrangle to every-
body’s satisfaction, including the Jews, since the Jews
will not change their anti-Gentile religion.”
If you cannot have your Jewish State, then you
must resolutely close your frontiers to any more Jews
and apply yourself diligently to assimilating those that
you have, but in this case you must safeguard yourself
against their rise to disproportionate power and affuence
through methods which, in our code, amount to unfair
competition.
Given the creation of a Jewish State, this Eng-
lishman would see to it that the Jewish nation became
an ally of Britain, because “of all the prevalent mis-
conceptions about the Jews the worst is that they are
cowardly. They are most courageous. For their own
cause, the Jews would fight like lions.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Sturdy Borrowers at Canberra.
Materials for the writing of another chapter in the
history of the decline and fall of the system which
imposes seven Parliaments, seven Governments, seven
Governors and a crowd of superfluous departments,
boards and commissions on the Australian people were
provided at Canberra last week. There the Loan
Council (itself superfluous and of recent years inept)
met to deal With seven Treasurers’ “claims” for accom-
modation in 1939-40.
Naturally the most outrageous claim was pre-
sented by Mr. Stevens, of Sydney. With three months
of the financial year gone, Mr. Stevens introduced a
Budget in which he predicted a surplus of £BOOO. In
the exultation produced by his rosy review of N.S.W.
Government finance, Mr. Stevens straightway brought
in a bill providing for an annual increase of £14,000
in the pay of Ministers and members, to start from
July 1, 1938. That done, he handed over the Treasury
to Mr. Mair, who, after some months of robust opti-
mism, had to ask the Commonwealth Government to
tide him over an anticipated deficit of £1,700,000,
since increased in anticipation to £2,800,000.
Mr. Stevens’s “claim” was for £16,500,000, that
amount being required to cover “Government works,”
“semi-Government works” and another deficit —esti-
mated at £1,500,000. Mr. Dunstan, of Victoria, asked
for £4,000,000 for “Government works,” £2,900,000 for
“semi-Government works” and something for a deficit.
For Queensland £4,650,000 was demanded for
“works” ; for South Australia, £2,600,000 ; for West-
ralia, £2,800,000; for Tasmania, £1,515,000, together
with as much as they could get for deficits. Mr.
Menzies mentioned £15,000,000 as the Common-
wealth’s requirement.
As usual, there were nasty remarks about N.S.W.
greed, and bitter protestations that the bottom would
fall out of this or that State if it were fobbed off with
a pound less than the amount on the schedule. Mr.
Stevens’s “clever” way of getting round the Financial
Agreement by working the “semi-Government” oracle
was mentioned with asperity. And the familiar flim-
flam about the necessity of borrowing “vigorously” to
“promote employment” was heard once more. Nobody
mentioned that the employment thus “promoted” is
ephemeral, and produces dead-enders, or that in New
South Wales, the worst example of profligacy, rates and
service charges have risen and taxes are sure to rise-
all to the injury of industries which are not paying.
In the end the “claims” were cut down to
£41,100,000 —£14,000,000 for the Commonwealth (of
which £10,000,000 is for defence), £12,700,000 for
N.S.W., £5,050,000 for Victoria, £3,960,000 for
Queensland, £2,350,000 for South Australia, £2,000,000
for Westralia and £1,040,000 for Tasmania.
The last two local loans have been under-
subscribed. Of £7,850,000 of 4 per cents, offered
in London, the underwriters were left with just on
80 p.c. and the loan has been quoted at a discount of
355. ; so there is likely to be trouble in getting
£41,100,000 from investors. The sturdy borrowers con
fidently expect the Commonwealth Bank Board to
make up any difference by inflation, called by some
fancy name.
At Tientsin.
When a royal prince had appendicitis, the Poet
Laureate of the period dashed off a remembered—
perhaps ill-remembered—couplet:
Across the wires the pregnant message came:
“He is no better; he is just the same.”
Pronouns altered, it might have been written of the
position at Tientsin after the eleventh day of the
blockade of the British concession. The Britons were
running short of vegetables, wires strung round the
concession having been electrified to warn off
Chinese market gardeners ; but they had plenty of
flour and rice, were not out of meat and were getting
milk. Some of those leaving or re-entering the con-
cession were subjected to gross indignities, which Mr.
Chamberlain has himself described as “intolerable
insults.” But there had been no attempt to interfere
with the sturdy Durhams, who are guarding the con-
cession, or to prevent the arrival or departure of
British ships, two men-o’-war among them.
The attitude of the U.S.A. is all-important, es-
pecially as the U.S.A. is far and away lapan’s best
customer. In a statement to the press Secretary Hull
said “the Government of the United States” was
"not concerned with the original incident relating to
the requested delivery of the four Chinese accused of
murder.” He added, however, that it was “concerned
with the nature and significance of the subsequent de-
velopments in their broader aspects, coupled with past
present acts and utterances in other parts of
China.’ Presently he embarrassed the Japanese Gov-
ernment by suggesting that his correspondence relating
to such “acts and utterances” should be published.
The uncontested occupation of Swatow, the last
seaport held by Chinese, led to a greater embarrass-
ment. Swatow was supposed to be defended by a
Chinese army; but the army—if any —bolted, and it
would now seem that a great many of the natives, in
South China as well as North China, have come under
Japanese influence. But an order that all foreign
warships should forthwith leave Swatow was met by
Admiral Yarnell with the declaration that the U.S.
destroyer Pillsbury was at Swatow and there she would
stay. The British admiral took the same stand with
regard to the destroyer Thanet. On Admiral Yarnell
further announcing, “with the full support of Wash-
ington,” that the United States Navy would go “wher-
ever it might be necessary to protect American citi-
zens requiring assistance,” the incident closed.
From Washington and London there then came
the significant report that Britain and the U.S.A. had,
subject to Parliamentary ratification, completed the
arrangement for bartering rubber and cotton, to be
held as war-emergency stocks.
These developments have been received in the
Empire with lively satisfaction. But the great need is
for a settlement, a settlement which, if it is at all pos-
sible, will not only prevent any repetition of the nasty
Tientsin business but clear the way for reduction of
armaments in the Pacific. Even before the blockade
began the Australian Government was advised by
“S. M. Herald,” nowadays always looking for fight,
to break off negotiations for the renewal of the trade
agreement with Japan that expires on June 30. Worse
advice could not have been given, and the Govern-
ment very properly ignored it. It is important to
Britain, as well as Australia, to maintain contacts with
the Japanese Government, especially remote and
friendly contacts which may admit of the alarm and
resentment of even Japanese moderates at their old
ally’s offer of an alliance to their old enemy being
explained and, perhaps, allayed.
A Shanghai Incident.
“Nakhoda”: I was in Shanghai when a dispute arose
between the foreign authorities of the settlements and
the Chinese over extra-territoriality.
The Chinese employed the tactics that the Japanese
employed at Tientsin and went further. They did noi
need to erect barricades, because the foreigners had
already erected them, but they tried to prevent food and
supplies coming into the foreign quarter. Also, they
blew up the waterworks and allowed the gunners of
their warships, which were supposed to be fighting
rebels, to lay their own guns, with the result that, in
one case, shells fell in a public park during an outdoor
concert. If a Japanese had shown his nose outside the
settlement boundaries he would have suffered for it.
Within 24 hours after the trouble started 21
foreign warships materialised off the Bund and marines
were landed, Japanese among them. The senior
admiral happened to be a Japanese, and he took
charge of a heterogeneous army composed of British
volunteers, Sikhs, Pathans, Annamites, French, British,
Belgian, German and Japanese regulars. To make
the picture complete, the Chinese shells were made in
Sheffield, and the munitions of the rebels were ob-
tained from a Japanese tramp which had mysteriously
run aground within rebel territory.
The Japanese were then just as much concerned
with preserving the sacred principle of extra-lerri-
toriality as they are now outraged by it.
Guba Does a Good Job.
With results satisfactory to all concerned, Captain
Taylor and the Archbold party have completed their
aerial crossing of the Indian Ocean in the Guba. They
found the conditions in advance of those on the
Pacific, across which Clippers operate, and they had to
tackle no stage as long as Golden Gate to Hono-
lulu. Over much of the Indian Ocean there is calm
weather during a large part of the year, and the stages
are well within the range of large modern aircraft.
The party left Sydney on June 3 and made Port
Hedland, 2600 miles non-stop, in 19 hours 35 minutes.
Flying conditions for amphibians there are excellent
—the port is to become the site of an R.A.A.F. outer
ring base, which is an added advantage in considering
it as a mail base. Captain Taylor’s scheme brings
some of the intermediate bases into a defence zone
which is protected from all sides —by Australia,
Ceylon, Singapore, India, British East Africa and
Aden. From the point of view of protection and Anglo-
Australian defence control, conditions are perfect.
On June 4-5, the Guba flew to Batavia. She had
failed to find Cocos, which is merely a dot in the
ocean, but the next day she made the 700-mile jour-
ney. The circular lagoon on Christmas Island is fine
for descending. The water is particularly clear, and
there is no difficulty in picking out coral outcrops. Yet
the Guba was the first aircraft to visit the scene of
the Emden fight. Christmas Island will probably
become an R.A.A.F. or R.A.F. base.
A seven-day survey was made of Cocos possi-
bilities, and the 1725 miles to Diego Garcia was then
flown slowly—l4hr. 17min.
Chagos looks from a steamer a mere line of half-
submerged reefs. It was found that the lagoon there
possesses the requirements of a base for airships of
current size, and “probably for those of the future.”
June 16 saw the next stage accomplished, 1022
miles to the beautiful island of Mahe in the Seychelles.
Flying-boat landing there is reasonably easy, but there
would be greater difficulty in establishing a land aero-
drome. However, Captain Taylor thinks this can be
accomplished.
The last stage to Mombasa, 950 miles, was cov-
ered on June 21. Total trans-ocean flying-time with
a heavy load was 60hr. 32min.; it can be cut down
by at least a third under commercial conditions.
With Australians and Americans in happy associa-
tion, thus has the way been opened for the establish-
ment of a safe and well-defended all-British route
from Australia to Britain.
"The Launch Went Down."
“E.V.”: The loss of the launch Nerita off Moreton
Bay with her crew of 12 emphasises the need for
better small-craft safeguards.
On October 19, 1936, a small launch sank in the
turbulent estuary of the Hawkesbury River (N.S.W.).
Twelve persons were drowned. And there have been
many subsequent small-craft mishaps in N.S.W.
Navigation in the various States is governed by
the usual medley of statutes and regulations. There
is a Commonwealth Act and there are State Acts, and
in the multitude there is confusion.
In Victoria, launches plying for hire must be
licensed and carry fire extinguishers, lifebuoys and
other emergency equipment, but for all the authorities
can do to prevent them they may go out into Bass
Strait or the Tasman in a hurricane if their owners
wish.
Launches plying for hire have to be licensed in
Sydney, but their movements are uncontrolled ; and
private pleasure craft are neither licensed nor in-
spected. Any Sydneian can solder and nail together
a marine packing-case, and, if he is not using it for
business purposes, set out for Honolulu or Sakhalin.
It is no uncommon thing to see open 16-foot launches
fishing well outside Sydney Heads in south-easterly
weather.
In Queensland, the position is about the same.
Not even .Government dredges and barges which
keep open the outer Moreton Bay channel are subject
to the State Act.
Queensland has a long roll of boats lost on river
bars like that of the Maroochy, and of small vessels
caught suddenly in southerly blows and carried up
the coast. But none of these tragedies inspired Gov-
ernments to action.
Vessels in which it is desired to go beyond cer-
tain harbor limits should be controlled under the Com-
monwealth Act. In fact, navigation should be a
Commonwealth matter altogether.
Any motor- or sailing-boat engaging in fishing in
the ocean or in the outer reaches of extensive enclosed
waters, such as Moreton Bay, should be annually in-
spected, licensed and fitted with distress signals— not
rockets, since these in a small vessel are merely an
added danger.
There will always be sea tragedies so long as there
are small ships; and there will always be daring while
men love the sea. But that is no reason why fool-
hardiness, voluntary and involuntary, should not be
curbed.
The Whites Must Unite.
“C.”: A world-wide investigation conducted by the
League’s statistical staff estimates world-population on
December 31, 1937, at 2134 millions, in round figures.
By now, natural increase will have brought it up by
at least another 21 millions. In the 25 years since 1913
it has grown by 463 millions, in spite of the Great
War and of the influenza pandemic.
To the total for 1937, China contributed 450 mil-
lions, approximately one-fifth of the whole human
race, 50 millions more than the estimate for 1913.
But in 1913 Chinese represented nearly one-fourth of
mankind. Other races have thus increased propor-
tionally faster in that 24-year period. Japan grew
from 72 to 102 millions, British India from 316 to
378 millions, all Asia, except Russian territory, from
915 to 1126 millions, Russia from 140 to 175, Africa
from 113 to 153, North America from 100 to 142, and
Australia and Maoriland from 6 to 8.5 millions.
The reason for China’s decreased proportion is
to be found in the South and Central Ameri-
can figures—an increase from 82 to 129.7 millions in
the 24 years, with an annual increase for the 1936
period numerically equal to that for all non-Russian
Europe’s 397 millions. Had the Australian and Maori-
land population increased at like rate it would now
be over 10 millions ; had non-Russian Europe done
so it would have had 148 million more people than
it has ; had North America done so there would be
80 million more Americans and Canadians to-day.
Towards an annual world’s natural increase of 21
millions —likely to grow in steadily increasing ratio
with the steady world-improvement in hygiene and
nutrition—the three wealthy white continents, Europe,
North America and Australasia, contribute only a
3,800,000 average, and that is decreasing rapidly. The
inevitable result of this failure of white races —except
to some extent Russia —to reproduce at their former
rates must be a shift of the world’s economic centre
of gravity from them to South America, Africa and
Asia.
The “Economic News” sums up the situation:
By the end of the present century those continents
will contain the overwhelming bulk of the world’s
population... .It is still possible for the Western races
to arrest their decline, but not to. restore their former
predominance.
Putting all possibilities of war, or of totally
unprecedented peaceful immigration, the 20-year-old
Australian of to-day may look forward to a rapidly
dwindling population by the time he is 50, not only in
his own country, but also in Europe and North
America. It will be accompanied by a gigantic in-
crease, mostly colored, in all other continents. These
will most emphatically not be just a lot of far-away
niggers or other inferior folk. Continents grow con-
tinually closer ; a generation hence, everybody will
be everybody’s ne;.t-door neighbor, with the colored
neighbors in immense preponderance. What used to
be the White man’s knowledge has already been
absorbed, adapted, sometimes improved, to form a
part of the daily lives of millions of non-whites.
It is not a question for Australia only. Nothing
more cogent can be advanced against the disruptive
jealousies and foolish fears which now prevent the
whole white race from combining in a united effort
to ensure its safety, even its survival.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Gin and Two”: Any Saturday after-
noon you may see him, a cornet tucked
under his arm, shaking a moneybox at
the customers in some Sydney suburban
pub. On this occasion there were only
two of us in the bar, a 16-stoner sport-
ing a flannel singlet and myself. In
came the musician, and Flannel Singlet,
about nine sheets in the breeze, eyed the
cornet. “Play’s ‘The Rose o’ Tralee,’ he
said, “an’ y’re on a pint.” The musician
looked at Flannel Singlet, at me and at
F.S. again. “Brother,” he said, “I’d
play you anythink you liked.” He placed
the cornet on the bar. “Anythink you
liked—if I could play the ruddy thing
at all.”
* * * *
“Jumper Cross”: Anyone who im-
agines that “queer names are usually
singletons” (B. 21/6/’39) ought to do a
little browsing in Debrett. What about
Lady Urania Annabella Wallop? And
the (late) Rev. Ralph William Lionel
Tollemache (“see Dysart, Earl of”), who,
tiring of his singleton Tollemache, be-
came —without royal license —Ralph Wil-
liam Lionel Tollemache-Tollemache?
And (take a long breath!) Lyulph
Ydwallo Odin Nestor Egbert Lyonel
Toedmag Hugh Erchenwyne Saxon Esa
Cromwell Orma Nevill Dysart Planta-
genet?
“Mako”: Add to good doubles in
extraordinary names one belonging to a
Thames (M.L.) man. The family name
was Dabb, and Mr. and Mrs. Dabb,
who might have named him Tom or
Harry and thereby achieved nothing, had
the foresight to have him baptised
Melchizedek. Nobody ever forgot the
combination.
“P.”: There is no higher form of cour-
age than that shown by Australian (and
British) miners when there is a chance
of saving the lives of mates, or even of
recovering their bodies. Napoleon’s
“two-o’clock-in-the-morningcourage”was
nothing to it. Jack Martin, Percy Mc-
Gregor, Jack Falchi, Joe Rodda and
Ray Byrne were cleaning up in an old
Broken Hill South shaft, 900 ft. down,
when they were caught by a fall of earth
and entombed. Soon rescuers were driv-
ing a tunnel through the fallen ground.
It was dangerous work, but they toiled
like beavers for six hours; then they
heard a faint cry from one of the im-
prisoned men. Two hours later they
reached him, but it took another three
hours to get him out. It was Ray Byrne.
He had been thrown down about 20ft.
with timber, mullock and skimps; the
timber pinned him down, but protected
him from further injury. While he was
waiting to be extricated, he talked with
the rescuers and guided their efforts.
When they freed him he had some tea
and a smoke, saying he was all right and
thankful to be alive. His four com-
panions were dead.
*** . *
“C.Q.”: A town is for sale in Victoria.
A commonplace in England, where towns
are the property of the local lord (didn’t
Sam Copley, who once cut hair and laid
“little doubles” in Perth, buy Hudders-
field?), but this one was raised by the
State Electricity Commission to facilitate
the building of the Yarrawonga Weir.
The prospective owner can cart it away
or leave it and live in it where it stands.
There are other towns in the Murray
Basin whose inhabitants were less fortu-
nate. With the closing of the Hume
Weir hundreds of houses and several
hamlets over a wide area had to be sub-
merged. I visited one of the houses be-
fore the commission’s ukase came along.
It was a fine old mansion, standing in
a large estate, which had once been the
pride of the countryside. The steward
who had been left in charge had been
born on the estate, and apparently he
found the idea of leaving the place too
painful. Evidently the owners, who
were in England, refused to believe that
the departmental sentence would be car-
ried out, for the house was full of antique
furniture and costly tapestries which the
Steward dusted every* day. When the
“ I'd like to meet the silly bloke wot planted these trees”
evacuation of the district began the roads
resembled the highways of Belgium
flooded with war-time refugees. Most
of the population had waited till the last
moment, and the rising tide was already
creeping over the roads they had to take.
I have often wondered if the steward
went under like a hero still dusting his
master’s furniture.
* * * *
“C.R.”: An unusual case of adoption
is that of the Victoria brewery in Colling-
wood, Melbourne, which has taken under
its wing a near-by Government school.
Each employee gives threepence a week
from his wages, and each child at the
school gets a daily glass of milk, sand-
wiches and other refreshments, and there
is a fund for eventualities. I wonder
what the mothers would say if the
brewery donated pots of beer. Yet in
England, even 50 years ago in some
places, small beer was the family bever-
age, and children drank it with their
breakfast.
*** . *
“Bumpk”: Time was when skippers
of large liners breathed a sigh of relief
when their vessel got across the Rip, the
30ft. deep rocky reef which bars the
entrance to Melbourne’s seaport. On
the landward side is 50 fathoms of water,
and on the seaward between 12 and 15
fathoms; consequently a strong ebb tide
sets up a jobble sometimes which makes
the rounding of the Cape seem like cross-
ing a millpond. A sudden drop of 10ft.
was not impossible, and that meant a
possible bump' on the bottom. Now
there is a channel 45ft. deep, and restric-
tions on sailing can be lifted. It has
taken 40 years for the Harbor Board
to solve the problem, and it required a
world war to do it. Dredging was out
of the question, but old Defence Depart-
ment mines laid on the bottom and ex-
ploded at the rate of six a day have
blasted the channel, and echo-sounders
have located the pinnacles and excres-
cences. The works ship The Rip, with
a crew of 13, has been on the job for
years. Annual leave in Melbourne gives
the men their only respite.
* * * =K
“Craiser”: There is grave dissension
amongst Melbourne’s city fathers as to
the relative importance of the “carnival”
to be staged next spring, when citizens
are expected to go gaga in a stern en-
deavor to recapture the spirit of the
Italian Riviera. One reverend councillor
thinks the £15,000 would be better spent
in providing more traffic lights in the
city, and another wants it to be expended
on cultural matters. Some are in doubt
as to whether the citizens will rise to the
occasion in the true carnival spirit, and
others are afraid it won’t be a business
proposition. What with the muddle of
motives the debates have been heated,
and councillors haven’t been above in-
sulting one another. But at least one
thing will come out of it which will
shed lustre on the city—some flapper re-
sembling Deanna Durbin as much as
one pea does another will be declared
Queen of the Carnival and given a return
ticket to flapperdom’s Holy City, Holly-
wood.
* . ;* $ =i-
“Tuart”: I read in Sydney “D.T.” that
Hawkins, the State Minister of Labor,
“died on the seventh anniversary of his
elevation to the Ministry,” having been
sworn in “at 7 p.m, on June 16, 1932.”
There are other links in the chain of
coincidences. It was just on 7 p.m. when
Hawkins suffered his fatal fall. There
were seven , letters in his surname and in
his first Christian name (Herbert), and he
was 63 —9 times 7, and 7 short of 70.
And of resident Ministers, FitzSimons
being abroad, Hawkins was No. 7 in
order of precedence.
“S.T.S.”: It has been decided by S.A.
Supreme Court that a country garage
which prominently showed the initials
“R.A.A.,” without having bqen appointed
by the Automobile Association as its
agent, can be restrained (with costs)
from doing so ; and that smaller letters,
indicating that it employed a mechanic
holding the R.A.A. certificate, were no
defence. Judge Cleland made, inci-
dentally, one of the epigrams for which
he is becoming locally famous. Having
cited from an English case a dictum
about misleading “the incautious, un-
wary and heedless portion of the public,”
he called this “an apt description of
pedestrians from the motorist’s point of
view, and of motorists from the point of
view of a pedestrian.”
-I' 'l s
“C.R.”: A novel alibi was advanced
by a man charged with stealing a hand-
bag from a lady in Melbourne. He said
he had been suffering from influenza.
“So have I,” remarked the Beak. “But
I took a lot of rum to cure it,” explained
the prisoner.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The contents of Cantala, the
vast mansion built by Septimus Miller
at St. Kilda, have just gone under the
hammer, and the
great remote-looking
building is to be
handed to the
wreckers. It is one
of the few remaining
“boom” palaces of
Melbourne. Septi-
mus .was a son of
that Henry Miller
who owned the site
on which tfi*e new
Hotel Australia is
rising in Collins-
street. Henry was
known in his day as
the Rothschild of
Australia. A small
broker when the
gold rush started, he
preferred, as he used
to say, home com-
forts to travel and
stayed where he
made his money,
starting building
societies, insurance
cos. and what not
for the convenience
of the diggers when
they had finished
with the goldfields.
He and his sons
made a great deal of
money, and spent it
as easily as they
made it. But it is
astonishing how little
value the art con-
noisseur gets for his
expenditure. Septi-
mus bought pictures,
statues and objets
d'art galore for Can-
tala, and some of
the prices he paid
were stunning. But
the highest bid for a
statue at the recent
auction was £26, and
for a painting £4l.
Both were by once-
fashionable artists
who are now for-
gotten. The same
thing is still happen-
ing to-day. One
wealthy Melbourne
art patron bought pictures by an English
painter so celebrated that he would not
take a sitter under 1000 guineas. Now
his pictures hardly draw a bid at
Christie’s, in London, and he has scarcely
been dead for a decade.
“S.T.S.”: These radio general-know-
ledge “bees” bring surprises to literary-
minded listeners. A lady lost 70 bob
through being unable to name more than
one book by Dickens. A man in S.A.
was asked to mention four plays by
Shakspeare, with a nice cash prize hang-
ing on the result. A buzz of envy went
up from the other competitors; but he
just replied candidly, “I couldn’t name
one,” and faded out.
“D.F.”: Australia has one link with
the Seychelles, the Guba’s last place of
call before Africa —the 99-year-old
barque Marie Laure, the oldest vessel
afloat south of the Line. The Marie
Laure was built at the Seychelles in 1840.
Nine years later, bringing a cargo of
sugar from the Mauritius to Hobart
Town, she was bought by J. Johnstone,
and for 34 years she was a whaler out of
the Derwent, working as far away as
Behring Strait. Then she ran in the Aus-
tralian coastal trade. She has been a
Yarra hulk since 1893.
SOUND COUNSEL.
“Avoid the jitters.”— The Prime Minister to the
Melbourne Chamber of Commerce.
Avoid the jitters
Of feebler blokes
At sparrow-twitters
And raven-croaks.
Grim things portending
Of where we’re trending
And what’s impending
For peaceful folks.
Whatever’s dinned up
In all you read,
Don’t get the wind up
Before there’s need.
To leave the willies
(Whatever ill is
In store) to sillies
Is Menzies’ creed.
Though rankling rumors
Of war grow hot,
Bethink they’re bloomers
More oft than not.
Forbear to shiver,
Or even quiver.
’Twon’t help a stiver,
But harm a lot.
No apprehension
Should cloud our days,
Whatever tension
Dictators raise.
Still, sunshine glitters
And flicks and flitters . ..
Cut out the jitters,
As Menzies says.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Ike Hollar”: Gathering flowers of
rhetoric and the like in Sydney Domain,
which always yields specimens, I culled
this one: “Are the boys of to-day. to be
shot down in another war, as their fathers
were before they had a chance to become
fathers?”
* * * *
“Colbun”: 4 ‘Quod Cafe,” at the rear
of the Melbourne Art School, must
surely be one of the most puzzled and
resentful buildings in Australia. Last
remaining portion of the old Melbourne
Gaol, built in 1844 amid dark suspicions
on the part of reputable citizens that the
town was to become a convict settlement,
it is flanked by rows of initialled granite
slabs which mark the graves of long-
dead criminals. For more than 80 years
it was the gaol kitchen, its culinary out-
put—severely limited—was the work of
prisoners for prisoners, and any tendency
towards levity or gaiety was frowned
upon by authority. Now, once through
its grim doorway, it resounds with the
laughter of students; its worn, stone
floors support glass counters and glitter-
ing canteens filled with dainties such as
its original occupants never dreamed of.
Strangest change of all, its stone walls
and columns glow with gay mural paint-
ings, the work of students.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Queensland papers
carry some intriguing advertising matter
at times. What personal crisis should
impel a citizen to offer to exchange a
well-bred bulldog pup for a second-hand
tombstone in good condition, only one
side inscribed, is beyond me, but the
deal' was open last week. A full-size
non-folding perambulator offered as a
trade-in towards a small caravan-
trailer, twin or double berth, seems
to convey a hint of pathos—or of
cynicism, as you prefer. And consider
this bid for business —surely one of the
bravest ever made:
MAN, I Can Supply All Your Require-
ments. CALL OR WRITE FOR ALL
REQUIREMENTS.
Faced by such obviously high-power
salesmanship, I’m afraid to do either.
* * * *
“D.E.”: “S. M. Herald,” indignantly
denying that it has the Country party or
its leader “set,” explained that it had
felt “bound to express the strongest dis-
approbation of attacks upon Mr. Menzies
which have borne all the marks of per-
sonal and partisan spleen.” It recalls
an early experience of my unbrilliant
journalistic career. Nanson, the West-
ralian Attorney-General of the period, a
long, lean person with acrimony in his
eye, who went from presswork to the
Bar (having edited another “Morning
Herald”), had suspended Police Commis-
sioner Hare, very handsome but very
Johnnyfied, for a tempestuous reply to
criticism. He defended his action at a
Perth Town Hall meeting and gave Hare
beans. In the “Daily News” on the fol-
lowing afternoon there was an article to
the effect that “for an exhibition of per-
sonal spleen”—the opening sentence —
Perth had had nothing like that attack
on Hare. Nanson straightway issued a
writ for libel, and got a verdict for £275,
the Judge telling the jury that “personal”
was an actionable adjective, though “poli-
tical,” if substituted, would have been
innocuous. Lovekin, who owned the
“Daily News,” promptly sacked the
editor, Len Matters, who had written the
article. Matters went to South America,
where he edited a paper published in
English at Buenos Ayres. Returning to
“The cockics could certainly do with some rain up here.”
Sydney long afterwards, he recalled the
case to me, saying, with a serio-comic
air, “that article wrecked a promising
journalistic career.” He went to England,
where he became Labor member for one
of the London electorates, losing the seat
in the rout of 1932. I hear he is nursing
it again.
•i*
“Pawang”: The one-day ’flu which has
whirled across Australia—Kalgoorlie had
the worst visitation—bears some resem-
blance to tropical dengue. The tempera-
ture flares up, sometimes to 105, and
goes down almost as quickly, leaving the
joints aching and the patient in a state
of prostration. During the period of
recovery feelings of 'well-being alternate
with acute depression, and during the
former the sufferer is disposed to leap
out of bed and trot off to the office, only
to find himself not so well as he im-
agined. The best thing to do is to stay
in bed, fast and wait till the temperature
is normal. Although the scourge is only
a weak brand of ’flu, it can have reper-
cussions in pneumonia, and, as in dengue,
hasty rising is apt to be dangerous. My
charlady attributes the epidemic to the
bushfires, but local medical opinion is
more conservative.
“F.S.”: About the behavior of the ’flu
germ a lot of facts are known. If the
virus is injected into a ferret, then trans-
ferred from the ferret to a pig, from the
pig to an egg, and from the egg to a
chicken it becomes virulent in the
chicken. In the same way, scarlet fever
used to be a mild disease in England.
Taken out to China it passed through
the Chinese host and returned buttered
up in some way to the European children
in the foreign settlements, where it be-
came a greater menace than smallpox.
Probably the combinations, permutations
and conflagrations in the germ world are
due to miscegenation. Germs intermarry
“Gad, Farquhar, I never thought I'd live to see you lake a sitting shot.”
for untold generations
—a generation might
last a minute in a bio-
logical fam i 1 y—and
gradually weaken.
Then some individual
breaks the racial laws
and forms a misal-
liance with a germ of
another genus. Their
offspring draw char-
acteristics from both
parents, and a new
pathological problem is
presented to the doc-
tors. The germs which
have produced the
present ’flu may be half-
castes, quadroons or
octoroons descended
from the disastrous
tribe which produced
the great post-war
pandemic.
“Cauboy”: Some-
thing like the impend-
ing orgy, of concerts in
Melbourne Town Hall
occurred in 1927.
Friedman and Heifetz
were the giants, and
there were nine other
visitants of lesser
calibre. The critics sat
in yawning rows '
through something near
50 concerts, wondering
where their next adjec-
tive was to come from,
while audiences grew
more and more attenuated. The last
of the procession was Zimbalist, the
violinist; but by the time he arrived
the public's pocket was well-nigh empty.
The indomitable Melba tried to stimu-
late interest by attending and punctuat-
ing the applause with loud and enthu-
siastic “bravas,” and finally, out of the
goodness of her heart, announced she
would appear in person. The public
rushed to the pawnshop and there was
a fair attendance. The diva chased Zim-
balist round the piano, sat down at it
and accompanied for him, sang “Home,
Sweet, Home” and kissed him, but with
all that his season was unprofitable.
❖ s}!
“Gryllus”: One of the many strange
discrepancies and eccentricities in Eng-
lish weights and measures will disappear
shortly after next New Year —the Smith-
field stone. Everywhere else a stone
weight is accepted as 141 b., but for many
years the 140-odd wholesale firms which
dominate the London meat market have
fixed it at 81b. for all their transactions.
The change-over will .necessitate altera-
tions in scales, extensive revision of
printed matter and adoption of new
methods of bidding. In the common-
sense English way, three months will be
allowed to enable salesmen to get used
to it. Judging from past experience of
Smithfield’s diction and manners,
January-March, 1940, will live long in
the memories of its frequenters as the
period during which local standards of
swearing and fist-fighting reached their
highest levels. And both are already
remarkable enough.
t- * * *
“Troy”: Beautiful wrought-iron gates
from the about-to-be-demolished Hoff-
nung building are to be used for the War
Veterans’ Home at Narrabeen, Sydney.
It recalls that the great gates discarded
by the Sydney Town Hall people now
stand at St. Joseph's College, Hunter's
Hill. Builders of modern homes evince
a keen interest in ancient iron gates and
railings, and many old homes have sup-
plied these indestructible items to new
dwellings. At the back of a building
that abuts on to a vacant section in
Elizabeth-street is a wonderful speci-
men of the ironworker’s art—a spiral
staircase that reaches from the fourth
story. It is worth a place in some
repository of .relics of Old Sydney.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A customer's uncanny
sense of humor endangered an Adelaide
hotelkeeper’s license. Two constables
swooped down on the place, and the
barman swore that when they arrived a
butcher who happened to be in the bar
“took two disks from a fruit-machine
and threw them in the air.” The idea
was that “we should pretend to be play-
ing two-up, so as to make fools of the
police.” “A very dangerous game—if
it was a game,” the S.M. said. “It was
very foolish to allow even the ap-
pearance of the game. But I am not
satisfied that two-up was being played.”
EX FUMO.
“Discussing the item of 15s. for cigarettes m an
insolvent constable’s weekly budget, X.S’.W. Justice
liong-I nnes remarked: “I have smoked a pipe tor
forty years. Surely a policeman would not lose caste
by 'smoking a pipe, even at Dubbo?’ ”
Would it be thought unseemly or improper
Or infra dig it, on his native heath.
And in his hours of ease, a sturdy copper
Should grip a bulldog pipe between his teeth.
Would he recede in anyone’s opinion
Or forfeit his prestige should he desist
From puffing clouds of (so-called) mild Virginian
And take on Barrett’s twist?
Would bashers feel less risk of being convicted,
Or drunks with lightened fears upon him gaze,
If rumors ran around he was addicted
To humble corncobs or plebeian clays?
Could even pungent reek of shag or Derby
Impair the confidence or shake the awe
Created by —in rure et in urbe —
The majesty of law?
Ah, no! If learned Judge and prim attorney,
Grave bishops, too, the fragrant herb may
use,
As Walter Raleigh did, and Martin Burney,
And find the habit nothing to excuse,
Why should the guardians of our peace, the
claspers
Of bracelets on the burglars and the lags,
Abandon seasoned ( cherry woods for gaspers,
And churchwardens for fags?
Though paper-covered weed may never hurt you
And furnish all the solace you require, •
Be sure it costs him less who finds more virtue
(Like Stanley Baldwin) in a blackened briar.
And here’s a dictum that’s beyond debating:
No constable, with or without a stripe,
Should ever suffer in his social rating
Because he smokes a pipe.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


10 for 9°
20 for 1/6
CRAVENA
~(ti€SO
/
-fa**
Vobf'
JW ■*
- m
, *
V>'Ca4^J
PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
The “sturdy” borrowers gathered at
Canberra weighed in with “claims” for
£53,000,000, all to be borrowed and/or
manufactured in 1939-40. After three
days of chin-music, the harmony (or dis-
harmony) of which was in no wise dis-
turbed by the news from London that
the 4 per cent, loan issued at £9B 10s.
was quoted at a discount of 355., the
“claims” were cut down to £41,100,000.
The Commonwealth takes £14,000,000
and N.S.W.’s share is to be £12,700,000.
This, according to the U.A.P. press, is
a “sacrifice,” but Mr. Stevens is “satis-
fied.”
Menzies to the newspapers, after
listening to the immemorial moans of
borrow-boom-and-bust Treasurers:
A long discussion took place on the
application of New South Wales for in-
creased deficit accommodation of £1,100,000
|£1,700,000 having already been promised].
Mr. Stevens said that his State was facing
a deficit for the current financial year of
£2,800,000. This serious position had de-
veloped in the last two or three months.
If Mr. Stevens said that, Mr. Stevens
should get his rotten memory attended to.
On September 23, introducing his last
Budget (he will never introduce another),
Mr. Stevens predicted a surplus “of
approximately £8000.” In January Mr.
Stevens’s successor, Mr. Mair (“The
Mug”), published the figures for the
six months to the end of December, to-
gether with those for the corresponding
period of 1937. Revenue was down
£426,100 and expenditure up £1,970,200 ;
the “retrogression” for the period was thus
£2,396,300, and the deficiency £5,083,300.
On March 1, railway charges designed
to bring in 10 per cent, more revenue
were raised, although reductions had been
promised. And yet the tale told to Can-
berra, presumably in the belief that Can-
berra will believe anything, was that
“this serious position has developed in
the last two or three months.”
Maoriland Labor’s troubles are accu-
mulating thick and fast. Although
mutterings of naval men had been heard
for months, and recruiting for the
squadron had almost vanished in the rush
to get 16 bob a day at 40-hour-week
Public Works camps, the Government
took no notice till 500 bluejackets left
their ships for a stopwork meeting. There
they said that their pay was the same as
in 1924, that family men had to get along
on £2 17s. 6d. a week for the missus and
kids and five bob for father, and that if
they didn’t get a rise straightway there
would be another stopwork meeting.
Saying that he had been considering the
matter for a long time, Savage promised
them a rise straightway.
Said J. B. Abbott, chairman of the
State C.P. executive, in a Sydney
speech:—
The metropolitan press flogs the Country
party when it doesn’t want to join a
composite Government, and flogs Country-
party Ministers when they are in one. The
party’s whole sin is that it exists at all.
A fair statement of the position.
Abbott “can see no reason why the
Menzies minority Government should not
last for the duration of Parliament,” but
he sees the C.P. developing into a Centre
party and returning to what used to be
“the strongest plank in the platform—
no pre-selection.” And it certainly
should return to that plank.
Some of these American correspondents
whom the flapper press regards with such
reverence don’t seem to have even a nod-
ding acquaintance with the history of the
countries they write about. The great
Walter Duranty, who churns out Moscow
stuff, assures Sydney “Sun” and its public
that “Russo-Turkish relations are now as
intimate and friendly as of yore.” “As of
yore” is magnificent. Between 1566 and
1914 the Turks fought 12 wars with the
Russkis, and they were mostly long wars.
A great part of what is now Soviet terri-
tory was once Turkish.
That very smart American John
Gunther has been writing up China, and
spasms of his stuff are appearing in Aus-
tralian papers. Gunther was a “Chicago
Daily News” special in France, Italy,
Switzerland, Germany, Austria, Britain
and Russia, and he must have bounded
over China nearly as fast as the great
Red army, which, according to his col-
league Agnes Smedley, does 80 miles a
day on its head. He was permitted to
gaze rapturously at two ladies of the im-
“Mr. Stevens points out that, as a result of the Loan Council meetings, N.S.W. will
have £12,700,000 to spend in 1939-40, as well as getting a big swag' of the expenditure on
defence.”
“That was a bright idea of yours, Bertie!”
mensely wealthy Soong family who, with
the assistance of Chiang Kai-shek and
others, are directing the war.
If Madame Chiang is the glittering
diamond in the Soong dynastic crown,
Madame Sun is a hidden flower; a beauti-
fully-luminous bit of porcelain; a shadow
with flame, behind it.
Great fodder for flappers, no doubt.
But has immemorial China really become
a flapperised imitation of the U.S.A.?
“Chamberlain sold out Czecho-
slovakia.” In every “advanced” Ameri-
can periodical that comes to this country
and almost every splurge of American
journalism syndicated in Australian
newspapers, that phrase occurs. It is as
rank a lie as the American newspaper
yarn that the King and Queen drove
through Quebec in a bullet-proof car,
and it is chilled-steel cheek withal.
Chamberlain was no more responsible
for Czechoslovakia than was the Presi-
dent of the U.S.A. Rather less indeed ;
for the synthetic republic was cradled
in the U.S.A., and Woodrow Wilson was
a party to forcing the Sudeten Germans
into it, despite many protests and ap-
peals. The English are not kin to the
Czechs, and had no alliance with them.
Soviet Russia had; moreover, Russkis
and Czechs are blood-brothers. But in the
view of the American “special” and the
smutty American magazine, Stalin is al-
ways right and Chamberlain always
wrong.
Until recently crimes of violence in
Palestine, as reported by the Stunt Press,
were committed by (1) “Arab terrorists”
and (2) “terrorists.” After the riots, the
burnings and the policeman-potting
which followed the publication of the
White Paper, the Stunt Press announced,
with startled surprise and naive in-
nocence, that a Jewish girl had been
found with a bomb. Last week it re-
corded that 18 Arabs had been bombed
to death and 18 injured in the market-
place of Haifa. Presumably “terrorists”
were responsible, but the Stunt Press
didn’t attempt to fix the blame.
Australians sympathise with Maori-
land in its difficulties, and will take it
badly if the sister-Dominion is cold-
shouldered in London while export
credits, plain loans and what not have
been showered on Turkey, Poland and
Rumania ; but Mr. Nash is certainly no
shrinking violet of finance. It has come
out that he asked for a £6,000,000 de-
fence loan and £10,000,000 “for
secondary industries and other pur-
poses,” as well as renewal of the
£17,000,000 falling due. What happened
to the wonders that were to be worked
with “costless credit”?
Sydney “Sunday Sun” has two simple
political beliefs: (1) Stevens, who has
borrowed more and has more unem-
ployed and looks like having a greater
deficit than the other States put together,
is a towering financial genius ; (2) C.P.
members, especially Cameron, are
ignorant yokels with cockychaff on their
teeth. It darkly warns their leader that
Menzies may “force an election, and Page
will be hard pressed in his electorate.”
What the “Sunday Sun” doesn’t know
about the political sentiments of people
living beyond the County of Cumber-
land couldn’t be written in the number
of words to be found in all Mr. Boom’s
books.
A Spanish relief committee, which
relieved one side only, has had the
gall to ask Menzies for “a substantial
sum for the immediate aid of refugees
in France” and to “allow a quota into
Australia, providing for them until
suitable occupations have been found. ’
It proudly mentions that the “Duchess
of Atholl has cabled pointing out that
thousands of Spaniards have asked the
committee to arrange emigration for
them.” Perhaps to oblige the Duchess
(bless her!) Sydney “D.T.” is in favor of
it. There are thousands of Australians
who would like to be provided for “until
suitable occupations are found.”
“Once a community begins to shorten
sail,” said Menzies in Melbourne, “those
who begin to suffer are those at the lower
end of the ladder.” “And once these
begin,” Sydney “Sun” added approvingly,
“the process continues right to the top
of the ladder.” But it’s a most unusual
process ; indeed, the whole scene is un-
usual. Do seamen really stand on a
ladder when sail is shortened?
“S. M. Herald’s” fit of annoyance be-
cause masses of refugees are camped at
King’s Cross, between Granny’s office
and the Warwick Fairfax home, was only
momentary. Granny discovered that
“with insatiable brutality, the Nazi
regime is inflicting fresh sufferings upon
the Czechs,” and she demands a “gener-
ous extension of the national hospitality
to the innocent victims.” Her rival pro-
poses an equally “generous extension of
the national hospitality” to Red
Spaniards. Fired by these noble
examples of humanitarianism which cost
the humanitarians nothing, or anxious
to affect a diversion from the Sydney
G.P.O. extension business, Minister Foil
came out as a champion of refugee doc-
tors, saying that the B.M.A.’s views were
“very narrow-minded.” The B.M.A.’s
N.S.W. president coldly replied that it
had expressed no views, had never been
asked to register refugee doctors, and
had no power to register them if asked.
Bailey, the Victorian Chief Secretary,
replying to Foil: —-
Before these foreign doctors became
refugees, they refused, through their Gov-
ernments, to recognise Australian medical
degrees. Now we are asked to admit a
flood of them to Victoria to compete with
doctors who have undergone years of
training in our universities.
He closed by saying that his Govern-
ment was not going to do it, and that it
was no business of Foil’s, anyway.
The negotiations for a Russian alliance
drag on, and, according to Reuter, “the
attitude of Russia suggests that there may
be some underlying cause for the delay.”
Has anyone thought of feeling Stalin’s
feet?
In 1930 the American national debt
amounted to $16,185,300,000. In 1933,
when the second Roosevelt arrived, it was
$22,538,600,000, and after six years of
Roosevelt it is reckoned at $41,000,000,000.
Now, on top of the “regular”
$1,735,000,000 for unemployed-relief
(there are still about 10,000,000
unemployed), the President wants
$3,860,000,000 for another “recovery
drive.” “Man never is, but always to
be, blest” —by public borrowing.
John and James Fairfax wouldn’t know
their old paper if they could see it to-
day. If sight of the s.p. supplements and
pictures of cocktailing flappers didn’t send
them howling back to the shades, a study
of “Granny’s” foreign policy would—it
is indistinguishable from that of the
Labor Council. Even the book reviewer is
allowed to work in puffs for Litvinov and
“the famous Eighth Route Army” and
rocks for Chamberlain:
Munich....is now seen to have been
what Wilhelmine would have called “a
very wicked thing.” The full enormity
of the so-called settlement Mr. Cham-
berlain’s fatal experiment in isolation, car-
ried out with foolish stubbornness... .The •
Prime Minister’s innocent belief, his ignor-
ance of diplomatic methods, his stubborn
refusal to be guided by the Foreign Office,
his lack of the requisite personal traits
Menzies has embarrassed the old girl by
pronouncing Chamberlain’s policy “mag-
nificent.”


FOOTFAULTS.
“The handicap golfer pays far too little attention to the possibilities of footwork.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOOTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St.' George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia,
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C-3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
BRITAIN, JAPAN AND CHINA
THE LOAN COUNCIL
AND
SECURITY PRICES
MINES AND METALS
July Issue on Sale Next Saturday,
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty.. Ltd., 252 George Street. Sydney, and all States.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Another generation of Kingsford
Smiths has taken to the air. Recent
graduates as pilot officers at Point Cook
included Air Cadet R. Kingsford Smith,
Charles Kingsford Smith’s nephew.
Dr. A. H. Sturdee, who has passed
over in Melbourne at 75, was a brother
of the admiral who distinguished him-
self at the battle of the Falkland Islands.
Born in England, Dr. Sturdee served in
the Boer War, and got an A.I.F.
colonelcy. Out of uniform he had a
practice at Bendigo.
In this grim year for politicians Joseph
Silver Codings, who leads for Labor in
the Senate, has lost his eldest son. The
younger Codings was headmaster of Sher-
wood School, Brisbane, and had taught
in many country schools before coming
to Brisbane suburbs.
The Queensland public service won’t
seem like its old self without G. L. Beal,
who was Under-Secretary to the
Treasury in the happy times when there
was no unemployment tax. Latterly he
has been Auditor-General. J. D. Ross
succeeds him in the latter job—s 3 years
old, so that under the present Queens-
land Act he may hold down the job for
17 years. Ross inquired, as a royal com-
missioner, into the state of the wheat and
flour industry in 1934.
In Westralia, politics have always been
friendly-like, and even when private wars
start they don’t last long. East Perth
was once the scene of a memorable by-
election between J. J. Simons and T. J.
Hughes. Simons had been the Labor
M.L.A., and had resigned because the
Trades Hall objected to his association,
as member of the Newspaper Proprietors’
Association, with a newspapermen’s
strike, for which he was in no way re-
sponsible. Hughes was put up against
him, and Hughes won. In after years
Hughes himself fell out with the Trades
Hall, and retired from politics, studying
for the Bar. When he came out again
for East Perth in the useful part of
watchdog, the magnanimous Simons
helped to put him in. Last week the
two old opponents were in Sydney to-
gether. Nowadays Simons and his part-
ner, Victor Courtney—one of the first
Y.A.L. boys when Simons founded that
organisation—direct the destinies of the
“Sunday Times” and the “Mirror,” and
Hughes has a prosperous legal practice,
as well as being an active politician.
The parties to the Great Boulder
wrangle which culminated in a stormy
meeting of shareholders in London are
nearly all Australians. One of the lead-
ing objectors to De Bernales control of
the concern is George Goodhart, an
Adelaidean who went to,London before
the war and got a seat on the Stock
Exchange when quite young. Support-
ing him and his associates is J. B. Con-
nolly, who crossed from Queensland to
Coolgardie in the Roaring ’Nineties,
made a pile as a contractor, and, going
into public life, became Minister and
Agent-General. Claude de Bernales
arrived on the goldfields about the same
time, a tall, handsome stripling who
introduced raining-in-London pants. He
has retained his good looks and athletic
habits, though he must be in the sixties.
“Ente Marid”:. Dead in Cairo, Aus-
tralia’s strangest poet, known in Egypt
as Azir el-Din (“Azir the Conqueror”).
I remember him in Queensland as a
small, slight, fair-haired schoolboy,
Rudolph Augstein—the family was of
Austrian descent, and changed its name
when the world blew up. As Peter Aus-
ten, he enlisted, served on Gallipoli and
wrote verse which earned him notice
overseas. He settled in Egypt, became
a Mohammedan and an editor of Eng-
lish publications. Leo, his mild-looking
brother, is an R.M. in New Guinea, and
led the first expedition to reach the Star
Mountains limestone belt a few years
after the war.
Length of days was denied to the
second Lord Inchcape—he has gone out
at 52. Unlike his father, who rose from
the ranks of the Scottish Mackays, he
went to Eton, with a degree course at
Trinity College to follow, but he looked
the part of a stocky, determined Scot-
tish magnate. There is scarcely a line of
British ships on the Asian and Australian
runs in which he was not interested.
During the war he served with the 12th
Lancers and the cavalry. His second
wife was a daughter of Australia’s
northern neighbor, Rajah Brooke of
Sarawak.
Sir Leopold Savile, K.C.8., on a visit
to Australia, is one of the world’s lead-
ing naval dock and canal engineers.
Bombay owes a great deal of the develop-
ment of its harbor to him, and from
1919 to 1932 he was chief civil engi-
neer to the Admiralty. He is a quiet,
ascetic-looking Scotsman whom nobody
would associate with the building of
battleship docks, but his mission in Aus-
tralia is to consider the establishment of
one of them here.
Will Ashton —John William officially
“is a native of York (Eng.), but Adel-
aide taught him to read and write before
he went off to France to study art. Will
won the Wynne prize in Sydney twice.
After the war he became a member of
WILL ASHTON.
(Modelled by Frith.)
the Commonwealth Art Advisory Board,
and was commissioned by the Govern-
ment to paint the gift picture of La
Perouse, now the property of the French
nation. He has exhibited at the Paris
Salon, and is represented in all the Aus-
tralian galleries. Sydney landscape has
always fascinated Will Ashton. He is at
his best where there is plenty of sunlight
and shadow, and he is in his element as
Director of the Sydney Art Gallery, hav-
ing succeeded J. S. MacDonald two years
ago.
Some July birthdays:
Prof. Bernard Heinze (Melb.), 45, on Ist;
Frank Strahan (P.M.’s Dept., Canberra), 53,
on 2nd; N.S.W. Senator Macartney Abbott,
62, painter Ernest Buckmaster, 42, and Theo-
dore Fink (Melb.), 84, on 3rd; Bishop Elsey
(Kalgoorlie), 59, and former Speck Premier
McPhee, 61, on 4th; Lauri Kennedy, 41, on
sth; N.S.W. Senator Armstrong, 31, Tom
Dunbabin, 56, Gov.-Gen. Lord Gowrie, 67,
former Vic. C.J. knight Wm. Irvine, 81, and
Judge Perdriau (N.S.W.), 59, on 6th; pianist
Percy Grainger, 57, Alfred Wunderlich (Syd.), 74,
and George Main (chairman, A.J.C., Syd.), 60,
on Bth ; Vic. Agent-Gen. A. L. Bussau, 55, knight
Fred. McMaster, 66, and Dame Enid Lyons,
on 9th; Prof. Woodruff (Melb.), 62, and David
Watkins, M.H.R. (Newcastle), 43, on 10th;
N.S.W. Sec. for Railways W. D. Newman, 50,
on 11th; Roland Foster (N.S.W. Con. of
Music), 60, on 12th; former S.A. Premier
Crawford Vaughan, 65, and Prof. Peter Mac-
Callum (Melb.), 54, on 14th; Lloyd Dumas
(Adel. “Advertiser”), 48, and Dr. J. A. L. Wal-
lace (Syd.), 63, on 15th; Prof. R. L- Dunbabin
(Tas.), 70, on 16th; J. A. Henderson (gen. man.
Aust. Metrop. Life Assoc.), 66, and novelist
Christina Stead on 17th; Sydney Municipal
Librarian C. H. Bertie, 64, Dr. Harold Davies
(Elder Prof, of Music, Adel.), 72, F. M. Forde,
M.H.R. (Capricornia), 49, and bibliographer
Percival Serle, 68, on 18th; W.A. Govt. Statist
Sam Bennett, 61, on 19th; Prof. J, B. Brigden,
52, and J. F. Ward (Prince Alfred Coll., Adel.),
56, on 20th; knight Edward Cunningham
(Melb. “Argus”), 80, and knight Edward Fan-
court Mitchell, K.C., 84, on 21st; N.S.W. Par-
liamentary Librarian Quinn, 60, Judge Marked
(N.S.W.), 54, and Prof. Lambie (Syd.), 48,
on 24th; knight Harold Gengoult Smith (Melb.),
49, and Bishop Moyes (Armidale), 55, on 25th;
Crisp, C.J. (Speck), 65, S.A. Crown Solicitor
Hannan, 52, Frank Villeneuve Smith (Adel.),
55, David Picken (Ormond Coll., Melb.), 60,
and novelist Henrietta Drake-Brockman on
27th; Randolph Bedford, 71, Federal Minister
for Civil Aviation J. V. Fairbairn, M.H.R.
(Flinders), 42, Judge Foster (Vic.), 53, Vic.
Govt. Statist Gawler, 50, and knight George
Kelly (Aust. Wool Board), 48, on 28th.
Herbert Gibson has resigned after 28
years as taxidermist and preparator at
Otago University Museum (M.L.). When
Phar Lap’s skin was presented to Aus-
tralia and the skeleton to M.L., Welling-
ton called in Gibson, who made an ex-
cellent job of it. From treating Shackle-
ton’s Antarctic marine specimens to pre-
paring gigantic sharks in
Wellington and Auckland
museums, Gibson’s work
covered a wide field. His
exhibits sent to foreign parts
have brought in exchange
invaluable ones that now
adorn M.L. museums.
Henry Robinson, who
has turned 85 in Hobart,
was second coachman at
the British Embassy in Paris
in the days of Lord Lyons.
He remembers the funeral
of Victor Hugo. Robinson,
a Surrey man, came to Aus-
tralia in the ’eighties, drove
a family coach for a few
years, and then had a
Hobart Council job for 21
years.
The knighting of Norman
Nock, head of Nock and
Kirby and . Lord Mayor of
Sydney, gives the Common-
wealth one of its youngest
“Sirs” on recent record—he
is just turning into his
forties. It hasn’t spoiled him.
Norman Nock is a man
who, if he did nothing but
look after his business,
would make an impression
on community life through
his wide friendships. He
summed up his reaction to knighthood
after a few hours of it with the remark :
“Well, thank the Lord I’m back in the
store where I’m still ‘Mr. Norman,’ in-
stead of ‘Me Lord’ or ‘Your Grace.’ ”
For 25 years at Adelaide Public
Library, which has given Australia many
fine librarians, Hubert Rutherford Pur-
nell has been elected president of the
Australian Institute of Librarians. He
is an Oxford man whose experience
began in the Bodleian. He filled jobs
at Queen’s College, Oxford, and Croy-
don (Eng.) public libraries before going
to Adelaide, which city he left almost
H. R. PURNELL.
immediately to spend four years at the
front. He has plenty of scope for his
hobby—reading.
“Craiser”: Having published another
book, Essential Christianity, Dr. Angus
is threatened with a fresh charge of dis-
obedience. I was present at the hearing
of the previous heresy charge at the
Assembly Hall in Melbourne. It was an
amazing spectacle to anybody unfamiliar
with Scottish history and with the pas-
sionateness with which the church’s
divines have always held both their old
principles and their changes of opinion.
The hall was packed with inverted collars,
mostly worn by young men; there was a
bench of grave elders looking like Rae-
burn portraits, and there were civilians.
Professors sprang to the rostrum and
moaned and even wept with emotion.
Meenisters shouted against Dr. Angus,
others shouted for him. Grey-
beards shook their heads, deplored this
dissension and appealed for justice and
tolerance. Dr. Angus sat impassive
throughout the proceedings.
“El V.” meets a veteran: — ,
1 see my old friend Colonel Rookes Cromp-
ton —his name has appeared in the telephone
books as sponsor of many electrical and other
companies operating in Australia —has been
celebrating his 94th birthday in England. I first
met the old gentleman at a meeting of the Insti-
tute of Automobile Engineers in London a
dozen years ago. A very bright young Yankee
was being highly technical and abstruse about
one of the last problems, and I noticed the
old boy letting off a series of contemptuous
grunts. Eventually he could stand it no longer:
“Perfect nonsense, sir,” he roared. “I dis-
proved it completely. I published a paper on
it some time back.” The bright young Yankee
smiled tolerantly: “Indeed, indeed?” he said.
“I must get a copy of it, sir. When was it
published?” “In 1867,” roared the Colonel,
“the year before I invented the traction-engine.”
Crompton invented more than the traction-
engine. There are people who believe they
saw him using practical electric light—he in-
stalled it in Buckingham Palace later —before
the days of Edison. I can believe it. A man
who served in the Crimea as a naval cadet
at 11 and has twice been president of the
Institute of Electrical Engineers and once of
the Institute of Automobile Engineers is cap-
able of inventing anything.


To Ward Off a C01d...
Wolfe’s Schnapps
hot with
lemon!
At the first sign of a cold or the ’flu, drink a glass
of Wolfe’s Schnapps hot with lemon before
going to bed it’s a pleasing, time-proven
remedy for winter ailments. Containing
medicinal properties not found in other spirits,
Wolfe’s Schnapps is unequalled as a health
drink and diuretic to tone and strengthen the
system.
sffis
m
/
&
«
WOLFE'S
(Z^fFoniaticc^zAiedam
SCHNAPPS
As Good For Women As For Men
Keep out Winter
Ills and Chills...
Drink
Wolfe’s Schnapps
OLFE
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND.=
==r— THIS
jggHATIC ALCOHOLIC
*jcclu*ivrfy in
rqgTr¥wl«t not only pure Irot
jmsnxropprty anV inyrrdfjl^fcu
i I
■ m illtnitaiAKaatt.at J
SnuJ^tp 1 |\ >
I
- -- T — — ROT*TERCM *
ESFatrioTtry Mtim.pt at «
mi rmm ly'««.iii>iiil<Mjuu»lU»»»infrin|{»i
: 1 PIHf I PI. QZ! >
• obtainable » n
fe’s Schnapps «« bottle s
e, Half and quar bottle
S hotels- Always keep
the home.


ABORIGINALITIES
BEYOND THE MORNING SEA.
Within the Land of Women,
Beyond the morning sea,
I heard a bird sing in a branch
Of Eva’s apple-tree.
Within the Land of Women,
Beyond a sea of blood,
I heard the song the sirens sang
In days before the Flood.
Dark was the bird upon the branch
And scarlet was his eye.
His song was like a pool of tears
Beneath a starless sky.
And piercing sweet the sirens’ notes
Came through its waters climbing.
They sang of joy and mirth and peace
And silvery tongues a-chiming.
Each siren had a coral* comb,
And each a brazen mirror;
And whoso o'er her shoulder peered
’Twould freeze his very marrow.
For, see, the bird forsakes the branch,
Blinded his scarlet eye.
The sun has left the morning sea;
The waves are mountains high.
Each coral comb has cruel fangs;
White gleaming breasts are stones;
And rosy fingers now are crabs
That flense a dead man’s bones.
“ If you're passing this Way next spring , give us a call, ’Erbert.”
Each siren note blends in a screech,
One with the tempest’s yell.
And bird and tree and song and sea
Go pouring down to Hell.
Within the Land of Women,
Beyond the deepest sea,
I heard a bird sing in a branch
Of Eva’s apple-tree.
Gone are the bells a-knelling;
And gone the pool of tears;
And gone the raging tempest
And the maelstrom’s fears.
Within the Land of Women
A moon rides zenith high;
The bird has now a crystal beak,
And crystal is his eye.
And crystal is the bird’s new song
From depths of Silence welling.
It is the music of a star
Of God’s own anguish telling.
Though bright the lances of the sun,
The arrows of the moon
Can pierce to deeper silences,
Can trace an elder rune.
Though piercing sweet the siren songs
From reefs that ring the Flood,
Ah, sweeter far that singing star,
The bird on Eva’s rood.
MAORILAND. PETER HOPEGOOD.
* * *
“Old-timer”: Some of you blokes are
always skiting about the cleverness of
your dogs, but I’ll back a native dog
against them any time. Sheep- and cattle-
dogs and the kind that hang round
towns have done some astonishing tricks,
I’ll admit, but most of ’em have simply
been repeating something they’ve been
taught. When it comes to straightout
thinking the native dog is on his own.
Why, I remember once, when dingoes
were bad in the Kulkyne country down
the Murray, I started out to shoot ’em
for their scalps. I was a dead shot in
those days, night and morning, and one
of my favorite tricks was to light a camp-
fire and wait near it. When the dingoes’d
come round you could see their eyes
gleam in the firelight as they approached
the bait, and I used to put a bullet fair
between those glowing orbs. It went well
for three nights, then I started to miss
badly. Couldn’t make a hit. Tested my
eyes, the rifle and the ammo, by day ;
they were all right. Next night four
gleaming eyes advanced on the bait. In-
stead of shooting, I turned a big flash-
light on. There were four native dogs
coming in abreast, the first and third
had their right eyes closed, the second
and fourth their left eyes closed. Beat
that!
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: The average bushman
will appear in public without his shirt,
singlet or boots, and, in an emergency,
even minus his trousers, but he seldom
makes an appearance without his hat.
Watch him when he receives news of a
flood, fire or accident—-anything which
demands quick action ; before he dashes
off to catch a horse or start a car he
grabs his hat. If he can’t find his own
headgear he’ll take the wife’s or anyone
else’s he can lay hands on, so long as it
is a head-covering of some kind. When
he’s in the city he is liable to mislay
parcels or personal gear, a confidence-
man may get him for his purse or his
socks, but at least he’ll arrive home with
his hat. There must be some reason for
this abiding love of male millinery. But
I’ve never been able to fathom it.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: An at-the-time list of the
birds who have accepted hospitality of
house or garden in this S.Q. household
during the first six months of the year
works out rather surprisingly. Butcher-
birds, magpies, pee Wees, thrushes, bab-
blers, fantails, flycatchers, doves, blue
kingfishers, honeyeaters, owls and kooka-
burras were amongst those present all
the time. Blue, red-backed and orange
wrens, currawongs, black cockatoos,
seven species of parrots ranging from the
gorgeous scarlet-breasts to lorrikeets, tinv
mistletoe-birds, equally tiny weebills, fig-
birds and diamond birds came and went
as food and weather varied to their liking.
“Welcome” swallows and fairy martins
left us at the first touch of cool, but occa-
sional whitebacks still wheel after in-
sects against the evening sky. The hand-
some cooee couple have long taken their
awful voices northward. With coucals,
bower-birds and unidentified casuals,
guests included at least 50 species. Yes
cats are barred.
* * * *
“Enmac”: Your modern Matilda-
lumper doesn’t fool around on a wet day
with damp chips and curse the billowing
smoke in an effort to boil his billy on the
track. With the heel of his boot he
makes a depression in the ground, fills
it with petrol from the bottle he carries
in his “knot” and the bubbles are rising
within a few minutes. Who said Time
doesn’t march on?
* * * *
“Watt Nextt”: Give a dog a bad
name! But give a bad tree a good name,
and that, too, will stick. I come back
to my statement of seven months ago
that the Forest Commission of Victoria
has classified the stringybark as mess-
mate. T didn’t know then that this wrong
labelling would have such far-reaching
effect, but I have been to many sawmills
since. There you see the beautiful honey-
colored, long-splintered stringy cheek by
jowl with the crumbly, drab messmate,
and both under the one name, being
sawn and stacked together. The pieces
get mixed in building of all kinds, and in
no time the messmate lets the job down.
Still, messmate continues to be specified
under the belief that it is stringybark.
The running top on the big bridge over
the Buchan River soon broke away from
the spikes. The planks danced and
spread-eagled under the motor traffic, and
bridge-builders were rushed out to put
down anew top. This time it wasn’t all
messmate, but a good sprinkling of
stringybark. Yet, if you want to get
home with your pride and dignity un-
ruffled, you mustn’t tell a Victorian that
the two timbers are different.
“Maul and Wedges”: I’ll cross Plumbs
with “Jim the Joiner’s” contention (B.
24/5/’39) that fiddleback grain is only
found in the butt of trees. In the case
of yellow-box, grey-box and red-gum, if
it occurs in the butt, it very often carries
right through to the small limbs. I have
been amongst Murray-pine for over 30
years, but I have not yet seen the
phenomenon in it, though it might exist.
“Jim’s” idea as to its cause I would take
with a grain of salt.
“Salmon Gums”: If the discussion
anent the world’s hardest job is closed,
ler me weigh in with the happies
memory of my life —the softest job. e
eot the contract to plough fhebreaks
along about 200 miles of railway line in
W.A., and kicked off with a disk plough
behind a caterpillar tractor. Behind the
plough we drew a rubber-tyred trailer
with provisions and “nap.’ Two ol us
took turns to drive the tractor or ride
in the trailer. It was good going, having
been ploughed often before ; and if we
got tired of riding we could get out and
walk. Also, there was just enough
variety to make the job thoroughly en-
joyable. Most of the cockies through
whose properties the line ran built their
fences right up to the ballast, an oblig-
ing department constructing the neces-
sary cattle-pits—at a price. Not one in
ten supplied a gateway over the fire-
break, and mostly they were strenuously
opposed to our pulling down the fences
to get through. One chap threatened to
invoke an old law relating to the sanctity
of fences which would involve us in
penalties ranging up to life imprison-
ment. Having authority on our side, we
could afford to smile. We did the job
in the spring, when the air was crisp and
sweet with the scent of flowers and ripen-
ing crops—which may be why some
cow thought it worth while to undercut
us drastically the following year.
* * * *
“Gluttonus”: I’m rather pleased to
learn from “Puffinus” (B. 31/5/’39) that
mutton-bird fat is short in vitamins. It’s
this overplus of vitamins that makes the
hearty eater get fed up of his favorite
fodder and have to turn to something
else. But “P.” has me tricked when he
talks of the oil in the young muttony's
stomach; we’re not going to eat that.
Nor does my bird contain any when I
dig it, spatched, out of the keg of con-
centrated brine. And this is what I do
with it, vitamins or no vitamins: Pre-
pare a forcemeat of stale breadcrumbs,
seasoned with sage and thyme, but no
salt. Soak bird in two hot waters to rid
surplus salt. Sew up with cotton, insert
forcemeat. Roast in moderate oven for
45 minutes. No need to worry about
vitamins when sampling that luscious
inch of buttery fat covered with a crust
of brown, along with the stuffing ; only
thankfulness to the beneficent Nature
that provides gluttonous man with such
titbits. *
* * * *
“Pittosporum”: If there is anything
more tenacious in plant life than the
climbing Devoniensis rose I’d be in-
terested to see it. About 70 years ago
my grandfather planted one near his hut
at Western Port (Vic.). Within a couple
of years he abandoned his selection, and
the garden plot was restored to the bush.
Since then half a dozen fires have swept
over the place, and now the only plant
among the scrub and bracken to mark
the site of the old garden is a hardy rose-
bush which every spring and autumn
bears a wealth of rich, creamy bloom.
* * * *
“Ak Shorr”: If a symposium breaks
out anent the toughness of human feet,
I’ll back the canecutters of N.Q. against
the rest of our continent, abos. included.
Striking a match on them is a common
feat, and I’ve seen a quarter-inch-deep
cut without any blood coming to the sur-
face. A barefoot tramp through bindi-
eye, sensitive plant, needle-burr and the
like is a daily occurrence during the
early-morning hunt after the horses.
Excessive summer heat makes the wear-
ing of trilbies unbearable, and in winter
heavy dews soak them —hence their
disuse.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Abo. first-aid? Battling
through the spinifex, back in the ’nineties,
out from Mt. Margaret (W.A.), we came
to a native waterhole and two gins
squatting beside it. They were just about
all out, and the younger had a baby.
Somehow they had lost their tribe, and
knowing where the well was had
managed to get to it. But it was full of
sand, as most native wells are, and they
lacked the strength to dig down to the
drink, though there were ample indi-
cations that they had had a try. With a
shovel to work we soon had water show-
ing, and the first drink went to the gin
carrying the lifeless-appearing package
of skin and bone that was her baby.
Taking one gulp she eased her own
pangs. The next she held in her mouth.
Then putting her lips to the child’s she
blew the water in. It brought that infant
back to life like magic. Long Jack had
an emu loaded on one of his pack-nags.
He cut off half a thigh and presented it
to the ladies. Tearing off a mouthful the
mother chewed it to the fineness of
mincemeat, then did with it just what
she had done with the water. Half an
hour later the piccanniny was crawling
around as if things like thirst and star-
vation didn’t exist.


“The 0.D.”: When young Mac was
before the Beak for the fifth time for
taking possum-skins, the Beak sent for
old Mac and said severely, “This boy
of yours will end up badly. You, as his
father, should teach him that there are
two ways, right and wrong, and urge
him to follow the right way.” Old Mac
seemed pleased. “You’re a good sport,
y’r Honor,” he said, “but y’ got me
wrong. I’ve tried to show the young goat
the right way, plenty o’ times, but he
still gets caught.”
9 * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Generally equable, Big
Mat was inclined to get shirty with any-
one who tried to bounce him, and when
he encountered anyone who assumed
superior airs he became most dangerous.
He was humping his bluey into Mildura
(Vic.) when a car pulled up and a bump-
tious voice said, “Listen, my man, I wish
to get to Irymple!” Mat drew himself
up. “All right,” he said, “you can go
this time. But, mind, don’t ask me
again!”
% * * *
“Puffinus”: “Delroy” (B. 31 /5 / ’39) has
never dug out brush-turkey mounds or
he wouldn’t talk about the eggs lying
buried “small end down, that just nicely
keeps the yolk floating in the ideal centre
of the albumen” —whatever an ideal
centre may be. When laid, each egg is
packed round with dirt by the bird, but
when the enclosed chick is fairly ad-
vanced in development each will be
found to lie in a loose compartment of
its own, up, down, sideways or in any
combination or permutation thereof.
How exactly the change occurs has never
been explained satisfactorily. Bushlore
has it that it is due to movements of the
contained chick, which turn the egg from
within. Certainly they are hatched
feathered and able to fly, just as a baby
crocodile is an exact replica of its parents
—-teeth, claws, scales and rapacious dis-
position in all respects but size. But
scientific observation goes to prove that
mound-hatching amongst birds is purely
a reptilian survival of internal egg con-
ditions.
“Better Wear your muffler as well — it'll be cold down there.”
“E.S.”: Wompy was a wandering bush
black who didn’t like clothes in hot
weather, as they were a hindrance and
a burden when hunting and climbing.
But he appreciated any kind of covering
on cold days. One bleak morning he
came to a selector’s house in an old even-
ing coat and tweed trousers that had
only one leg. He had salvaged the dam-
aged garment from a rubbish-tip, and
was wearing it back to front. Asked the
reason, he said: “When one leg get cold
me turn him round.” The top garment
wouldn’t reverse so well. “You gib it
coat gotum door longa front?” he re-
quested, tugging at the cutaway. “This
pfeller nearly all faresh air.”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: I’m tired of hearing
that Australians have lost the art of
horsemanship. The libel ought to be
lassoed and branded for what it is. In
the Snowy River country cattlemen still
gallop out on the branches of trees and
leap their horses from crag to crag.
Wombat holes are nothing to them. If
the horse falls the rider is- not a horse-
man at all. When mustering in the rugged
wild mountains, he must keep going all
day and bring his horse to camp un-
sweated and fresh, without an injury of
any kind and without a scratch on him-
self. He gallops through dense forest
and scrub and vines, over rocks and up
and down gorges, and must clear every
obstruction. Even a ripped trouser-leg
would mark him as an amateur. The
cattle he is after are mostly full-grown,
wild and unbranded. If a bull breaks
away and stampedes the mustered mob,
the rider has his own method of dealing
with the situation. He gallops after the
bull, grabs it by the tail and turns it
head over heels. While it is still in the
air he leaves the saddle, and both he and
the bull reach the ground together. The
bull falls on its back, but is not hurt.
In a flash he is rendered helpless, one
foreleg held at the double and the head
pulled back on to the shoulder. In
this position the beast can be branded
and earmarked or simply tied up for
future treatment. Are there stockmen
anywhere else in the world who can
accomplish this hazardous and daring
operation?
* * * *
“Valencia Creek”: Bill is an enter-
prising citizen always ready to engage in
any business that requires little capital
outlay, so when he heard that some club
from the city was coming to his district
for a picnic he lost no time in carrying
a couple of kerosene-tins of water to
the scene of the revels. After getting a
fire going and erecting a board with the
legend “Hot Water For Sale Cheap,”
Bill was ready for custom. However, the
picnickers had made their own arrange-
ments, and the venture proved a failure.
“I didn’t mind doin’ no good—trade’s
always slack this month accordin’ to the
papers,” Bill said afterwards. “But what
annoyed me was havin’ to cart me stock
back home again.”
* * * *
“Ellenvale”: While not for a moment
doubting that stewed flying-fox may
make an appetising dish (B. 14/6/’39), I
consider that ant soup is more worthy
of inclusion on the bush menu. Mark
you, one’s palate must be prepared for
this delicacy, but those fortunate people
who have attended bush picnics, where
the sandwiches inevitably contain a few
of the industrious little creatures, are
more or less accustomed to their unusual
but fascinating flavor. Naturally, ant
soup takes some preparation; one must
be prepared to sit for several hours on
top of* an ant colony. While this en-
“Oh , yes, I think you'd just about qualify for a pension.”
tails a certain amount of fortitude on the
part of the sitter, it is absolutely neces-
sary, as only the plumpest ants are
suitable for soup. To quote an old bush
adage, “The fatter the ant, the finer the
soup.” After filling half a kerosene-tin
with hand-picked specimens, the next
step is to remove their heads, legs and
intestines —this takes but a moment —
and your ants are ready for the pot.
Cover them with water, add the merest
soupqon of shredded wattle-bark and
simmer until the consomme reaches the
consistency of treacle. Serve hot, and I
am willing to wager that even wombat
en casserole will take second place in
your guests’ estimation.
“Formic”: A nip now and again by
the more aggressive of the species may
rouse us to fulminations against the ant,
but he more than makes up for any
assaults on homo sapiens by the good
work he puts in in the bush. For one
thing, but for him a man couldn’t run
cattle on the coastal areas; the ticks
would wipe ’em out as fast he could
breed ’em. Jimmy Ant collects the
greater proportion of tick eggs that are
laid. As a general scavenger the ant
stands on his own. The part he plays
in the pollination of plants and in
sweetening the soil is also incalculable.
* * * *
“Zoophus”: W.A. biologists are
particularly interested in the family
affairs of a marsupial mouse kept at the
Perth Museum. Captured about three
months ago the little lady was later
noticed to be in an interesting condition
(as Dickens used to put it), half a dozen
“joeys” appearing in her pouch, each
about the size of a pea. These duly
grew to healthy infanthood, the little
mother continuing to live her life of
grass-widowhood. And now, although
entirely without a mate since her cap-
tivity, she has produced another brood.
Such deferred impregnation is common
among insects, notable instances being the
queen bee and the queen termite. These
royal ladies make but one nuptial flight,
after which they retire into the maternity
cell and start laying tens of thousands,
perhaps a million, eggs, each one ferti-
lised and capable of hatching out off-
spring. Among the true mammals this
peculiarity in fertilisation is unknown.
But it has now been proved possible
among marsupials, though the Perth
marsupial mouse is only the second case
known to biologists.
* * * *
“Mandurah”: Tell “Dominic” (B.
31/5/’39) that although the toadie or
blowfish is toxic to the barnyard fowl
it isn’t to all birds. F’rinstance, the
common seagull can dine on that fish
with impunity, though it will take it
only when other fodder is scarce. But
never more than the one, unless skinned.
With a good supply of blowies on hand
I have divested them of their sand-
papery hides and fed them to the gulls
by the dozen. And never noticed any
dead gulls later lying around. Possibly
the poison resides in the skin, much as
it is said to do with the European toad.
And perhaps that’s why the rude fore-
fathers of Eastern Australia, when hand-
ing around nomenclature, called the
übiquitous “blowie” the toadie. 1 hey
were pretty keen observers, some of those
forefathers.
BALLADE OF A BACK-BREAKER.
No cause for a grin when the dust
Comes billowing in from the west,
Half-blinding you, gust after gust;
Or when Daisy’s anger’s expressed
By socking you one on the chest
With wet muddy tail: but dismay
isn’t yours till you’ve heard dads request:
“Hey, hoe up them murphies to-day!
To have to crawl in and de-rust
A tank, or to chip out a pest —
Perhaps burr, perhaps blackberry must
With monotony gall any breast.
But such is a “cop” I suggest.
To realise this, just obey
The cocky’s impatient behest:
“Hey, hoe up them murphies to-day!”
Democracies deem it unjust
To be of free speech dispossessed;
They’ll have it, they vow, or they’ll bust;
It's something to fight for, at best.
We’ll mostly confirm that with zest.
But a speech agriculturists bray
Undoubtedly should be suppressed:
“Hey, hoe up them murphies to-day!”
Envoi.
So, Prince, now you’ve possibly guessed
The reason I’m slinging my say:
I’ve personal cause to detest
That “hoe up them murphies to-day.”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . . . 4,739,012 10 0
Directors*.
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. 484 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE- PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
I.nnch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.80 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone. M 4601.
securitv
20 Investments in One!
That’s what you get by becoming a Certificate Holder in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST. Spreading your
funds over the shares of 20 first-class companies, these Certifi-
cates provide also a yield of over 5 per cent. p.a. and potential
capital appreciation. Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 Bond Street, Sydney.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
The WILD CAL COULMN
Bank of New Zealand
Mortgage
, Shares,
Govt.’s Ord. 0 and
Mar., Profit. J)ivs. 14J p.c. 7 A p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 912,954 231,250 537,500 46,143 4,042,591
1930.. 948,534 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,173,157
1931.'. 845,814 231,250 537,500 49,218 4,201,002
1932.. 587,023 231,250 537,500 49,219 3,970,056
11-i p.c.
1933.. 594,270 173,437 421,875 49,219 3,919,795
10 p.c.
1934.. 573,033 150,000 875,000 49,219 3,918,609
1935.. 578,748 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,923,138
1936.. 565,181 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,914.100
1937.. 600,008 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,939.889
1938.. 583,209 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,948.880
1939.. 585,941 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,960.602
Difficult to say exactly what the future
holds for private banking in the
Dominion, which has been dragging its
anchors lately because of the strain
placed on the financial structure by the
Government’s programme of vigorous
spending on public works, credit exten-
sion, increased social services, guaranteed
prices for dairy produce, higher wages
and shorter hours. That the strain was
not felt sooner was due to the sharp
rise in national income from exports, and
to Government credit obtained from the
central bank for other than marketing
purposes (about £12,000,000 at the end
of March last).
Here are external trade figures (in
Maoriland currency) over the last eight
years:
Total
Year to External Excess
Mar. 31, Exports. Imports. Trade. Exports.
£ .C £ ■ £
1932 .. 33,942,617 24.760,421 58,703.038 9,182.196
1933 .. 37,510,164 25,059,520 62,569,684 12,450,644
1934.. 46,042,570 26,135,496 72,178,066 19,907,074
1935 .. 44,918,180 32,567,785 77.485,965 12,350,395
1936 .. 49,675,992 37,439,944 87,115,936 12.236,048
1937 .. 60,234.511 47,621,104 107,855,615 12,613,407
1938.. 65,007,946 58.064.559 123,072,505 6,943,387
1939 .. 57,867,279 54,408,447 112,275,726 3,458,832
All this and the export of nervous capi-
tal caused such a heavy drain on the
country’s London funds that the
Government had to step in and license
exports and control imports, thus giving
it command of overseas credits ; the idea
being, among other things, to remove
danger of default in service of the over-
seas debt. Yet the Prime Minister re-
cently said he would not apologise if the
Government found it necessary to bor-
row in London to maintain supply of
“producers’ materials.” Whether ex-
change control, etc., will prove a tem-
porary expedient or the forerunner of
further difficulties will depend largely
upon how Government activities affect
the fundamental economic problems in-
volved. One of these is rising costs,
which the Government’s social “security”
scheme will tend to aggravate. In its
first year this scheme, which began on
April 1, is expected to run away with
£17,850,000, or about double the cost of
existing pensions, etc., and, after allow-
ing for extra taxation of Is. in the pound
on wages and other income, the addi-
tional burden on the Budget is put at
£2,000,000 at least. Since further State
borrowing from the Reserve Bank might
lead to a suspension of the latter’s statu-
tory ratio of reserves to liabilities, and
so damage the Dominion’s credit in
London, the Government came on to
the local market last month with
£4,500,000 of 4 p.c. stock, offered 1954-
58 at £96, or 1948 at £99. The issue was
oversubscribed, the banks taking a sub-
stantial wad.
After providing for contingencies, gross
earnings of the B.N.Z.—it enjoys a lion’s
share of the banking business in the
Dominion were up £12,169 last term:
Gross
Income.* Expenses. Taxes.
1928 . . £1,816,809 £630,433 £323.339'
1930 .. 2,013,526 684,745 359,648
1932 .. 1,770,686 659,629 502.835
1934 .. 1,569,907 652,163 323,511
1935 . . 1,468,371 651,708 231,439
1936 .. 1,508,982 652,608 291,193
1937 .. 1,606,342 683,045 323,289
1938 . . 1.672,821 710.270 379,342
1939 . . 1,684.990 730,956 368.093
After making provision for contingencies.
Exes, took all the increase and £8517
besides. But the tax bill was £11,249
lighter, leaving the net result £2732
better at £585,941, or less than two-thirds
of the 1930 figure.
Of the £6,328,125 of share capital, the
Government owns £2,109,375 and the
public £4,218,750. The lot is in 500,000
A 10 p.c., 234,375 C 6 p.c. and 468,750 D
74 p.c., all non-cumulative, • prefs., and
1,375,000 B prefs. and 3,750,000 ords.
After paying the A, C and JD divs., the
next £306,250 of profit, or part thereof,
handed out goes one-seventh to the Bs
and six-sevenths to the ords., which are
entitled to two-thirds of any further dis-
tribution, the other third going to the Bs.
Last year’s £585,941 of profit was 5.7 p.c.
on shareholders’ funds (capital and re-
serves combined). It was also enough to
pay the non-cum. pref. divs. (£99,219)
and show 7.6 p.c. on the B and 10.2 p.c.
on the ord. capital. The B and ord. divs.
remained steady at 7.2 p.c. and 10 p.c.
respectively.
Including rates and taxes, Govern-
ment took £532,155 and private share-
holders £410,156 out of the business last
term.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows:
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1928.. £3,797,080 £3.985.303 £30,339,033
1930.. 3,754,949 4,943,050 33.897,609
1932.. 4,062,762 3,720,191 31,565,843
1934.. 4,259,149 3,437.612 34,328,004
1935.. 503,779 3,838,441 33,198,614
1936.. 324,452 3,832,209 35,740,430
1937.. 628 4,177,062 35,636,112
1938.. 627 4,633,673 34,731,532
1939.. 627 5,275,957 33,328,479
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1928.. £25.892,025 £22,748,219 £533,597
7 930.. 23,792,798 29,109,588 579,871
7 932.. 24,199,750 25,653,321 622,825
1934.. 29,971,471 22,370,341 667,490
1935.. 25,907,405 21,490,732 673,678
7936.. 27,611,574 22.179,373 673,143
1937.. 26,108.701 23.663,949 684,961
1938.. 22.894,425 26.417,323 733,938
1939.. 21.415,461 27,202,740 738,023
The contraction, of £1,403,053 in de-
posits and of £1,478,964 in liquids is
partly on account of the drop in export
income. There was a net growth of
£642,284 in bills payable and of £785,417
in advances. When the books closed,
advances were equal to 81.6 p.c. of de-
posits, and liquids amounted to 55.4 p.c.
of liabilities to the public. It is a strong
position.
In the Long-term Mortgage Depart-
ment there is £607,050 of debenture
stock in addition to the £703,125 of share
capital. Of the lot £851,476 (down
£59,586) was out on loan and £458,499
(up £59,586) was used in the ordinary
banking section of the business.
At 395. 6d. (435. a year ago) the ords.
return 5.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The non-cum. 74 p.c. Ds at 275. (295. a
year ago) yield 5.5 p.c.
Robert Harper and Co., Ltd.
, Dividends N
A B Nominal
Pref. Old. Old. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ it it £
1928.. 49,017 10,500 19,200 1800 18,117 205,220
10 p.c.
1929.. 49,887 10,500 24,000 1800 13,587 278,807
1930.. 48,841 10,500 24,000 1800 12,541 291,348
8 p.c.
1931.. 39,717 10,500 19.200 2100 7,917 299,2(55
1932.. 39,711 10,500 19,200 2400 7,611 306,876
1933.. 34,167 10,500 19,200 2400 2,067 308,943
1934.. 36,366 10,500 19,200 2400 4.266 313,209
1935.. 42,324 10,500 19,200 2400 10,224 323,433
1936.. 37,267 10,500 19,200 2400 5,167 328,600
1937.. 40,835 10,500 19,200 2400 8,735 337,335
1938.. 39,841 10,500 19,200 2400 7,741 345,076
From contingencies reserve, £51,037 ..396,113
1939.. 37,876 10,500 19,200 2400 5,776 401,889
* Subject to goodwill, £BO,OOO.
Most arresting feature in that table,
which includes the very troublesome
slump period, is the comparative steadi-
ness of earnings and distributions. It
is one result of the sound policy—with
which discerning shareholders will not
quarrel—in both trading and finance long
followed by an able and careful manage-
ment which has grown up in the organi-
sation, the foundations of which were
laid in Melbourne in 1865 by the Hon.
Robert Harper. The business (the co. is
in the difficult drygoods trade) spread to
Sydney in 1877, to Brisbane and Adel-
aide in 1882 and to Fremantle in 1893.
When the books last closed, there was
visibly £401,889 of reserves, subject to
£BO,OOO of goodwill, to assist and
protect £430,000 of share capital in
150,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs., 240,000 ords.
and 40,000 B (employees’) shares. The
lastmentioned are entitled to three-
fourths of the ord. div., with a maximum
of 6 p.c., and rank equally with the ords.
for return of capital, but do not share in
surplus assets. Furthermore, the co.
trades on short terms, both as buyer and
seller, and the management is, and
always has been, opposed to “supported
accounts,” preferring to have thousands
of customers on its books rather than
be a silent partner in a more limited
number of retail establishments.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, trading became more dif-
ficult, especially in country districts,
where there was less money about, owing
to a dry spell and lower prices for wool
and wheat. Also, costs, including the
tax bill, continued to climb. After pay-
ing all exes., and providing for deprecia-
tion, taxation and other contingencies,
the board figured net earnings £1965
short of the previous year’s at £37,876, of
which £15,341 gross (£2441 more than
the pref. and B share divs. call for) came
from investments outside the business
and the balance from trading. The £37,876
was enough to pay the pref. and B share
divs. and show 10.4 p.c. on ord. capital
as against 11.2, 11.6, 10.1, 12.2, 9.7, 8.8,
11.1, 11.3 and 15.2 p.c. back to 1930.
The div. has been steady at 8 p.c. since
1917, sweetened with a 2 p.c. bonus in
’29 and ’3O. The board also disclosed
£51,037 of inner reserves, being “certain
provisions for contingencies made in
earlier years”—it is always pleasing to
know there is a little more wheat in the
ear than the eye can see.
Disclosure of this inner reserve was
partly responsible for the apparent
growth of £81,953 in the holding of Gov-
ernment securities (now £247,302):
1932. 1934. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £430,000 £430,000 £430,000 £430,000
Sundry creditors 41.778 47,297 34,442 34,243
Freeholds . . 145,665 146,188 144,582 144,264
Plant, etc. . . 48,926 42,251 36,845 38,574
Stock . . . . 146,840 163,432 128.776 126,616
Sundry debtors 111,026 95,905 91,221 92,241
Government securi-
ties, cash, etc. 262,246 278,780 364,144 420,487
Debentures and shares (£16,875) in-
creased by £16,760, and cash (£156,311)
was drawn upon for £42,370. The im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£605,102) was £55,402. There is
still a considerable inner reserve, due to
unearned increment, in the freehold
item.
At 38s. the ords. return 4.2 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis, with possibilities. The
prefs. at 295. yield 4.8 p.c. Visibly the
net tangible cover is £5 Os. 3d. prefs. and
465. lOd. ords.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
to to Re— Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £i
19 ‘29. ■ '.29,207 8 p.c. = 14,389 7179 ) 39g4 fll 1M
Written off, £304.) )
1930.. 6,019 Nil Nil 1 5 4 07 66 571
Provident Fund, £612 .. j StU '
1931.. 10,796 3 p.c. = 6,969 Nil | 3319 69,890
Provident Fund, £5OB ~ )
1932.. 11,869 3 p.c. = 6,969 2317 { 71 Qio
Provident Fund, £524 •• 1 *
1933.. 12,467 3 p.c. = 6,969 2799 ) onQ ~ ».
Provident Fund, £612 .. J ‘ 4 ’ Udb
1934.. 20.739 5 p.c. = 11,616 4630 4493 78,529
1935.. 11,886 4 „ „ 9.440 4578 77,397
1936.. 22,403 5 ~ „ 12,463 6723 3217 80,614
1937.. 26,622 6 ~ ~ 14,949 7056 4617 85,231
1938.. 17,849 4 „ „ 11,998 2927 2924 88,155
1939'.. 7610 21,, „ 7499 111 88,266
The state of the world’s wool-textile
trade and seasonal conditions are the two
factors which mostly affect the earnings
of those in the wool-and-produce and pas-
toral-finance business. The sharp con-
traction in this co.’s earnings for the 12
months covered by the latest accounts
was due to drought conditions over those
parts of N. S. Wales and Vic. where the
co. operates, and to the fall in wool
prices.
One effect of the dry spell was a drop
of 17,668 bales in the quantity of wool
received:
/ : 1938 N
Carry-
Rerfdnlx, Sales, Forward,
Bales. Bales. Bales.
Sydney. .. .. y 0,216 93,529 11,564
Melbourne . . . . 35,050 28,733 8,245
Total . . . . 131,326 122.262 19,809
, 1939 ,
Sydney . . . . 52,892 89,789 4,667
Melbourne .. .. 30,766 35,300 3,711
Total . . . . 113,658 125,089 8,378
A stronger demand from the U.K..
France, Belgium and Japan enabled good
clearances to be made, actual sales being
only 2827 bales fewer than the previous
term’s ; the carry-forward was reduced
by 11,431 bales. But, compared with the
corresponding period of the previous
season, the Australian average per bale
for the 11 months to the end of May
was £2 13s. 6d. lighter at £l3 ss. 2d., and
the cheque for the Commonwealth was
£4,908,903 lower at £36,238,839.
The effects of dryness again show up in
sales of livestock:
r 1938 N r ——1939-
Sheep. Cattle. Sheep. Cattle.
Sydney .. .. 266,650 14,647 230.369 10.195
Melbourne .. 377,795 12,194 378,197 10,077
Total .. .. 644,445 26,841 608,566 20,272
Last term 35,879 fewer sheep and 6569
fewer cattle were put under the hammer:
Prices, for the most part, were satisfac-
tory, and they strengthened considerably
toward the close of accounts, owing to
the demand for restocking, following
good rains, which have brightened the
outlook for the current term.
Gross earnings (£140,399) were down
£15.831. Exes. (£132,789) were got back
£5592, leaving the net result £10,239
lighter at £7610, and only twice (1921
and 1930) in the last 22 years has less
than that been shown. No rebate was
made to clients, whereas 10 p.c. and 20
p.c. were knocked off wool commission
charges in ’3B and ’37 respectively. Also,
the div. was lowered from 4 p.c. to 24-
p.c., making th<? average a shade under
4 p.c. for'the last nine years. But the
commission rebates already referred to


PATENTS.—Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Se., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayera and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—William Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Sfiure Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chamber*,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
'Phone: 1V11787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelyab,” Melbourne
Are You About to Travel?
IF you are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
absence you cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited,
to act as’ Attorney or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details of your affairs. It can arrange to make regular
payments to you in any part of the world. You are invited to make an appointment
with a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge. You might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS.
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, 11. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
II V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
sd
The Worlds Best
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
“Ring down the Curtain,
I can't start this morning,
croaked the Cold Piston
0
I
Y
VA
M
p
w
Sf
7
n
&
-w-J
irS*
ssg77
s#;o<» 4 ‘
•mmmxKirri
rrsa
*4»
a
Ul
£1
'jy,
! THE COLD PISTON:
“Vm cramped and stiff, unfit for toil,
“Clogged and confined icith d-r-a-g-g-i-n-g oil! ”
'THE COLD PISTON:
“Ah! Drag-I?ree Drops! at last! ailast!
“Swing into top! get going fast!”
HtlL
oil
MOTOR
/. ‘ ‘/a.
m
m
m
THE DRAG-FREE DROPS;
“We hear you calling, calling us !
“Drain out your sump, and stop your fuss! ''
/O
&
T
9
uk
THE DRAG-FREE DROPS:
“lie's oil right note, he's full of speed
“Shell Drag-Free Oil's tvhat engines need!'*
CHANCE NOW
TO THE
DRAG-FREE
Oil
f
MOTOR OIL
L0.39/13F
The Shell Company of Australia Limited (Incorporated in Great Britain)
1
make the nominal rate of div. worth
more to most shareholders, who are also
clients.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1924. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Capital .. £93,871 £249,116 £299,953 £299,953
Sfe} 169 ’” 0 !6M9B te sss
Bf " c ; I*Bs IS »:««
K debts .. SO,MS 1 [ ««,«» 889,092
“SS®?? 15,753 i 3l - l 8,115 7,780
To clip £68,959 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors and add £35,374 to
freeholds, the board went to its bankers
for an extra £53,462 and reduced debtors’
balances by £51,548. When the books
closed, outside liabilities exceeded more
or less liquids by £30,174, whereas there
was a surplus of £6562 at the previous
balance.
As for the current term, the imme-
diate outlook favors a much better show-
ing, subject to economic and other de-
velopments, of course.
The market, doubtful of a very sub-
stantial revival in the co.’s earning capa-
city, prices the pound shares at 13s. 9d.
as against 19s. 3d. a year ago. At the
lower figure the return is 3.5 p.c. on a
24 p.c. div., or a shade over 5 p.c. on a
34 p.c. distribution. The backing is
255. lid. in net tangibles, book value.
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
q £ £ £
1936.. 38,048 Hi p.c. = 19,516 18,532 141,172
Share premiums, £65,000 .. .. 206,172
1937.. -38,553 121 p.c. = 29,318 9,235 1 . q 6
Brokerage, etc., written off, £3911 J ’
1938.. 42,498 121 p.c. = 31,249 11,249 222,745
Pref. Ord. Total.
1989. . 46,008 -6 p.c. 12 $ p.c. 33,750 12,258 235,003
This co., which used to be Coghlan
and Tulloch’s Ballarat Brewing Co.,
formed in 1895 to fuse the interests of
Magill and Coghlan and of Tulloch and
Son, has given a very good account of
itself. The brewery is at Ballarat, and
the business, which extends throughout
western Vic. and to Melbourne, Mt.
Gambier (S.A.) and the Riverina (N.S.W.),
keeps on expanding. During the last
half of the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, shareholders welcomed
the opportunity to take up 125,000 new
6 p.c. cum. prefs. at par, making paid
capital £375,000 in 125,000 prefs. and
250,000 ords. —90,000 of the latter, which
brought with them £77,520 of share
premiums, were issued during the last
four years.
The new share and premium moneys
have been used mostly to buy up hotel
properties and to enlarge the brewery,
etc., as the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows:
1936. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £184,625 £250,000 £250,000 £376,000
Mortgages . . 1,500 30,500 38,500 55,500
Overdraft . . 50,13'8 24,662 66,175 17,384
Sundry creditors 6,766 11,509 13,107 8,357
Brewery, hotels,
etc. .. 259,133 368,510 425,652 505,514
Plant, etc. . . 47,000 47,000 49,500 68,000
Stock .. 23,136 ' 21,763 24,872 25,167
Advances . . 83,419 110,545 111,412 121,246
Shares other cos. 353 353 353 346
Cash, etc. .. 12,676 3,662 5,904 7,338
Last term £79,862 was added to brewery
and hotel properties, £18,500 to plant,
etc., and £9834 to debtors’ balances,
while £48,791 was lopped off the over-
draft and £4750 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors. Mortgages increased
by £17,000. The improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£72,856) was
£48,097.
Sales and consumption of beer in Vic-
toria have stepped along in this way :
, —■ —Consumption ,
Year to Sales, Gallons
•Tune 30. Gallons. Gallons. per Head.
1932.. 17,531,090 14,184,200 7.9
1933.. 18,060,730 14,063,700 7.8
1934.. 20,071,765 15,969,300 8.8
1935.. 21,327,523 16,958,500 9.3
1936.. 23,469,853 19,538,800 10 6
1937.. 24.837,399 20,750,800 11.2
1938.. 27,647,194 23,700,300 12.7
Sales include inter-State business. Con-
sumption per head moved up by 1.5 gal-
lons for the 12 months to June 30, 1938,
thanks mainly to a high level- of employ-
ment and wage lifts. Although con-
sumption per head is not likely to in-
crease much further, together with the
buying up of hotel freeholds, etc., it all
looks very encouraging from the share-
holders’ point of view.
The board figured last year’s gross
earnings from the trade £5964 lighter at
£96,554, while rents, etc., turned in
£37,737, up £6489. Exes. (£88,284) were
got back £2984, despite the tendency of
costs to rise. After meeting the pref.
requirements (£2500), enough remained
to show 17.4 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 17 p.c. and 16.4 p.c. for the two
preceding terms. A full year’s pref. div.
will call for £7500. Last year’s net earn-
ings were sufficient to pay this and show
15.4 p.c. on ord. capital, so the 12} p.c.
div. looks as secure as anything of the
kind can look in the circumstances.
The market prices the ords. at 495. 6d.
as against 535. a year ago and 555. 3d.
12 months before that. Allowing for the
final div. (Is. 4d. = 13.3 p.c. p.a.), the
return at 495. 6d. is 5.1 p.c. on a 12} p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 255. 4d. yield
4.7 p.c. The net tangible cover is
£4 17s. 7d. prefs. and 38s. lOd. ords.
Automobile Fire and General
Bonus, — — Dividends
to Prefs. Nominal
Sur- Policy- 10 To Re- Re-
April, plus, holders, p.c. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1929.. 11.011 3196 250 10 p.c. =2042 5,523 41.475
Premiums on new shares, £521 .. 41,990
1930.. 5,986 4381 250 10 p.c. =2250 41,101
12 p.C.
1931.. 9,996 3745 300 12 „ „ 2700 3,251 44,352
1932.. 8,764 2796 300 12 „ „ 2700 2,968 47,320
1933.. 14,073 3163 300 12 „ „ 2700 7,910 55,230
1934.. 3,144 1726 300 12 „ „ 27u0 53,648
1935.. 18.984 2423 43*7 17$„ „ 3938 12,186 65,834
20 p.c.
1936.. 20.649 2617 500 20 „ „ 4500 13,032 78.866
1937.. 18.937 2777 500 20 „ „ 4500 11.160 90,026
1938.. 32.463 2913 500 20 „ „ 4500 24,550114,576
1939.. 12.016 3043 500 20 „ „ 7625 848115.424
The board wrote the year’s profit at
£14,887 as against £13,703 for the pre-
vious term. The difference between these
figures and the surpluses shown in the
table represent variations in the amount
reserved (£51,028 at April 30) for un-
earned premiums—premiums actually
received but the risks in respect of which
were still current when the books closed.
Lately the management has put a lot
of ginger into the hunt for business ; pre-
mium income responded, and the surplus


•5 5?
Z
•: $
y
i
mm
' >/:
f-it& Sa£esJhec&use its/-in fe£u&f
i^HEVROLET — the world’s best-seller in 7of the last 8 years —is again leading in
world sales for 1939. ®
Why is Chevrolet so consistently the world’s most popular car? . . . Because it gives you
more value than any other low-priced car! Test the 1939 Chevrolet - try it out on the
road experience for yourself the outstanding performance and comfort that has been
built into this year’s Chevrolet. By any comparison feature for feature Chevrolet
leads its competitors at every point.
CHEVROLET IS IST IN STYLING The most beautiful car at any-
where near its price. There’s nothing freakish about its modern design.
CHEVROLET IS IST IN PERFORMANCE AND SAFETY ■— With its
famous overhead valve six (the engine that never needs replacing)
Chevrolet out-accelerates all others! Out-climbs all other low-priced
cars! And it has the greatest aggregation of safety features built into
any car.
CHEVROLET IS IST IN VALUE it’s the only low-priced car that gives
you all that’s best at lowest cost, in purchase price, operation and
upkeep. See your nearest Chevrolet dealer now!
Open Models from .... £312
Closed Models from .. £332
(All Prices Plus Safes Tax)
Easy Terms Available Under
Confidential G.M.A.C. Plan.
A GENERAL MOTORS VALUE
“AIR CHIEF” CAR RADIO Instal
an “Air Chiefi” in your car and
derive the maximum enjoyment from
motoring. There’s a model specially
designed for Chevrolet at prices from
18 Guineas. Ask for a demonstration.
1939 CHEVROLET
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia. GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD. C677.'27
available for distribution in 1938 went
up with a rush. But the high cost of re-
pairing the speedy modern car and
growth in the number of accidents took
heavy toll of last year’s premiums, as the
following comparison of underwriting
figures shows: —•
Net Pi e- Loss Expense
April, miums. Claims. Exes. Rate. Rate.
1927.. £83,028 £29,206 £38,370 35.2 p.c. 46.2 p.c.
1928.. 63,711 41,501 16,065 65.1 „ 25.2 „
1929.. 58,765 34,999 15,859 59.6 „ 27.0 „
1930.. 51,344 29,469 18,801 57.3 „ 36.6 „
1931.. 43,380 21,650 14,307 49.9 „ 32.9 „
1932.. 38,989 16,182 16,394'41.5 „ 42.0 „
1933.. 50,062 17,806 20,493 35.6 „ 40.9 „
1934.. 44,173 23,053 20,749 52.1 „ 46.9 „
1935.. 54,898 21,569 17,155 39.2 „ 31.2 „
1936.. 73,982 34,252 23,376 46.3 „ 31.6 „
1937.. 88,049 40,203 32,315 45.7 „ 36.7 „
1938.. 134,750 59,618 48,441 44.2 ~ 35.9 „
1939.. 127,579 72,502 51,059 56.8 „ 40.0 „
A shrinkage of £7171 in net premiums
was accompanied by an expansion of
£12,884 in claims and of £2618 in exes.
That bit into the underwriting surplus to
the tune of £22,673, leaving it at £4OlB.
Interest, rents, etc., turned in £7998 (up
£2226), making the net result from all
sources £12,016, down £20,447. After
deducting bonuses to policy-holders,
enough remained to show a shade over
22 p.c. on average capital (pref. and ord.
combined) as against 118.2, 64.6, 72.1,
66.2, 5.6, 43.6 and 23.8 p.c. back to 1932.
The div. was kept at an all-round 20 p.c.
Early in the term 50,000 new £1 ords.
were issued at par, one for one, and
called to 10s. each, making paid capital
£50,000 in 5000 8 p.c. cum. prefs., which
advance with the ords. beyond that rate,
and 95,000 ords., all of £1 paid to 10s.
each. On that lot an all-round 20 p.c.
would call for £1027 more than last
term’s surplus, less bonus to policy-
holders, as shown in the table. Obvi-
ously the safety of the 20 p.c. div. de-
pends upon the trend of the loss rate.
When the books closed capital, reserves
and £41,976 coming to sundry creditors,
etc., were represented by Government
securities, debentures, cash, etc.,
£147,533; freehold and furniture,
£53,358 ; book debts, £14,269. After pay-
ment of final divs and policy-holders’
bonus, net tangibles were equal to nearly
129 p.c. of the year’s net premiums.
Ihe market prices the ords. at 345., at
which figure the return is 5.9 p.c. on a
-0 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. seldom
appear on ’Change.
Preliminary figures for the 12 months
of 1938 show that Zinc Corp., operating
at the Barrier (N.S.W.), claims a net
profit of £194,613 (down
1183,635) from mining and of £82,611
(down £6415) from investments, the re-
turn from all sources being £248,487
lighter at £184,422. That was after al-
lowing £15,000 for sinking the new
Freeman shaft as against £95,000 in the
previous term. The contraction in earn-
ings was due to the fall in metal
prices. In London lead averaged
£l5 ss. 4d. (down £7 19s. 3d.) per ton
and zinc £l3 19s. 9d. (down £8 4s. 3d.)
per ton. The co. treated more and
richer 0re —414,500 tons averaging 16
p.c. lead, 11 p.c. zinc and 4oz. silver as
against 390,360 tons averaging 15.6 p.c.
lead, 10.2 p.c. zinc and 3.90 z. silver for
the previous term. Divs. (35 p.c. to the
prefs., 30 p.c. to the ords.) took all but
£461 of the profit claimed. For the
previous year the prefs. got 62| p.c. and
the ords. 85 p.c. The result disappointed
the market, and the price of the 10s.-
paid ords. on Australian ’Changes fell
sharply from 965. 6d. to 87s. 6d., follow-
ing announcement of the result, but later
recovered to 90s. or thereabouts. A
recent London quote for the prefs. was
on the basis of £AB 6s. per pound
share. Although metal prices have re-
mained low since the close of accounts,
completion of the new shaft and treat-
ment of a much bigger tonnage should
mean much so far as costs are concerned
for the current term.
* * * *
A London report indicates that, when
Great Boulders went to 9s. 9d. recently,
some swapping into North Kals. at 19s. 6d.
took place, possibly a result of indecision
following the recent flood of circulars.
Immediate prospects appear to have
favored the switchover. In its last com-
pleted term Great Boulder handed out 9d.
per share, as against 6d. for each of the
five preceding years. Despite additions to
mill capacity, more than a shilling a year
doesn’t seem to be within immediate reach,
owing to continuance of heavy special
expenditure on mine development, etc.
North Kal. has paid 2s. a share in each of
the last two years, and should have no
difficulty in maintaining that rate. Visibly,
the co. has six years’ ore in reserve.
The new treatment plant for the Croesus
block, to cost between £BO,OOO and
£lOO,OOO, should give earnings a
nice lift when it gets going, while intro-
duction of electrical winders and replace-
ment of cages with skips is expected to
cut present haulage charges in half. Last
year’s development was noteworthy, not
so much for the disclosure of new ore-
bodies as for the the proved extension of
the old. With the Union Jack lode
now assuming greater importance, con-
sideration is being given to sinking the
shaft another 200 ft.
* * * *
Gold Fields Australian Development’s
receipts for 1938 totalled £76,489, includ-
ing dividends of £60,000 from the co.’s
operating concern (Moonlight Wiluna)
and £11,588 from Yellowdine, in which
it holds a 20 p.c. interest. Deducting
Australian and London exes. (£8860) and
the div. (a first of p.c.=£37,500),
£7915 remained to carry forward. Ore
reserves, averaging 5.45dwt., increased
by 25,000 tons to 433,900 tons, notwith-
standing that 104,000 tons were extracted
during the year. Working costs at 30s.
lid. were down 2d. a ton. It is true
that development in Moonlight Wiluna
at 1230 ft. has not been encouraging, but
so little has been done that results to
date are scarcely a criterion of what
might be found there. Two winzes are
to be sunk to a considerable depth below
the 1230 ft. level; the result will deter-
mine whether the main shaft should be
further deepened. Chairman A. J.
Agnew says the co. has a promising
second string to its Wiluna bow in Horse-
shoe Wiluna. Drilling by the Wiluna
co. on the Bulletin area had struck pay-
able values at depth, and it was hoped
that a continuation of these would be
found in the Horseshoe Wiluna.
* * * *
At Sons of Gwalia’s annual meeting
chairman A. C. Moreing said last year's
development disclosed favorable results ;
considerable tonnages, not yet fully esti-
mated, had been blocked out at the 28th
and 29th levels, and indications pointed to
the persistence of good values at greater
depth. Reserves still place the mine at
least six years ahead of the mill. A hint
of further expenditure was given when
attention was drawn to the fact that de-
velopment at the No. 30 level is bringing
nearer the time when special work under-
ground, preliminary to the sinking of the
new shaft and equipping it, must be
undertaken. Good progress with this pre-
liminary development is anticipated dur-
ing the current term. Mine output of
recent years has been maintained around
150,000 tons per annum. Last year's
figure was 154,794 tons.
Lake View and Star’s year ends on
June 30, and for tonnage treated and gold
won it promises to be a record. During
the past four years revenue, has aggre-
gated over 5} millions in Australian cur-
rency, and it now amounts to well over
£lOO,OOO a month. Ore reserves, despite
extraction of over 50,000 tons a month,
steadily increase. The last estimate,
made a year ago, put the mine six years
ahead of the mill. Known gold-carriers
keep on going down, and outside the
present workings a lot of ground still
remains to be prospected.
* * * *
News from Boulder Perseverance states
that the persistent efforts of the manage-
ment to reduce costs are bearing fruit,
thus helping to offset the slight decline
in revenue from bullion sales, following
treatment of lower-grade ore. Lower-
cost ratio, combined with receipt of the
first div. from Kalgoorlie Enterprise, are
features of the accounts. General man-
ager Joe Manners, who went to London
to attend the annual meeting, is expected
back at the mine shortly.
* * * *
Mt. Magnet (W.A.) is attracting gold-
seekers. Some are doing well, and most
are above the breadline. Mt. Magnet
Gold Mines, Ltd., has erected power and
drilling pl&nts on the Paris, its second
string. Metropolitan Mining and De-
velopment Co. is raising and treating
good ore from the Black Cat, while Swan
Bitter is digging deeper in payable rock
at the Broken Bond, and Hill 50 is stab-
bing, with the diamond-drill, new ore-
bodies at depth. All over the field small
parties of miners are broadcasting opti-
mistic reports.
* l * * *
New Yilgarn (W.A.) reports a loss of
£96 for the half-year to March 31. Gold
won was worth £10,150. Expenditure
included reconditioning of old plant and
purchase of a new cyanide outfit. Ore
reserves, broken, probable and possible,
aie estimated at 6200 tons, averaging
lOdwt. The outlook is referred to in
cheerful terms. The venture is near
Southern Cross.
Linden, at Joyners Find, near Wiluna
(W.A.), is fulfilling official expectations.
It paid its first div. on December 19, and
its second on June 14. The two distri-
butions (6d. each) totalled £9500. Austra-
lian Gold Development, which holds
5000 paid shares, participated in the dis-
tribution. Linden first tried its luck in
the West at Linden, but disappointing
returns drove it away.
* * * *
London is finding a little money to
unwater and further prospect a mine
known as Yalgoo Gold Areas at Field’s
Find (W.A.). Present equipment includes
a five-head mill and haulage plant. For
several years now a number of prospec-
tors and small leaseholders have been
trying their luck at Field’s Find. Some
have done fairly well.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.G.W.: (1) and (2) 2s. 6d. per bushel now
is equal to approximately 2s. per bushel in
pre-depression days. (3) It takes much less
money to buy a bushel of wheat to-day than it
did during 1921-30. (4) No, because costs and
other things have been all readjusted to altered
conditions. No alteration seems likely at the
moment. (5) Yes, because exchange enables
overseas buyers to offer a higher figure in
Australian currency than they could pay in
sterling C.S.: See ‘“Wild Cat’ Monthly”
posted under separate, cover... .G.McM.: (1)
No open market for iSpe securities. (2) and
(3) They are a lorfptenru speculation, and
guesses as to what bondholders are likely to get
out of it aren’t worth much H.S.: Mainly
reduction of office costs J.S.L.: Doubtful
whether unsecured creditors are likely to get
anything, so shareholders are well out of the
picture... .G.M.McD.: Taken over by the
Australian Provincial Assurance Co. years ago.
A.W.F.: Better stick to your sharebroker.


HAMPTON
KING’S
CROSS,
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
•Spacious
Lounges. '
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
m
1
EBB
l !
m
r*
EEE
m
i
FEE
FEE
err
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates from 10/6
per night, single.
Suites from £l/1/-
per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD. DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
“Some women are such bad cooks that all
their meat dishes are tough.”— Women’s paper.
It’s not quite as bad as all that. Some-
times the gravy is quite tender.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A man charged with begging said that he
worked hard, but increases in his family kept
him poor.”— Court report.
While he was keeping the wolf from
the door, the stork came in the window.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Judge Gets Divorce.”—"Sunday Sun.”
He was used to trouble being courted,
but objected to home life being one long
trial.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A woman, asking for annulment of her mar-
riage, claimed that, at the time of the ceremony,
her husband was of unsound mind.”
—News item.
Why put people to all this trouble,
expense and delay? A short Act annul-
ling all marriages would meet the posi-
tion.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A Michigan (U.S.A.) fisherman found a
golf ball in the stomach of a fish caught in
the Gulf of Mexico.”—' ‘World’s News.”
Hooked in the Golf Stream.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“One person in every four in Melbourne has
a common cold.” — City Health Officer.
Only our best families, of course, can
afford to contract a refined cold.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“World-famous crooner wears a hat when
performing before the microphone.”
—Musical mag.
Must have it pulled down over his
ears.
“It has been suggested that boxers should
be weighed in two days before a fight.”
— Melb. “Herald” sporting writer.
It would be better if some of them
would wade in on the night of a fight.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Set your eggs by the stars.”
—Astrological blurb.
And risk barking your shin on a
perch?
•f* . •£* •!*
“Who else but air pilots ever experience that
eerie sensation of being cut off from the rest
of the world and breathing painfully in a region
of rarefied air?” — Aviation mag.
People who use public-telephone boxes.
“Can anyone tell me how to calculate the
horse-power of a donkey-engine?”
— “D.T.” correspondent.
It should be easy to assess.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Give a politician enough rope and
he’ll let the country go hang.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Beauty Can Be Cultivated.
—“Daily Telegraph.
By topdressing?
•J* *l*
“What do you put in your stock-pot when a
couple of unexpected visitors arrive?”
—Cookery column.
Another quart of water.
“Some women have a craze for diaries.’
— Women’s paper.
Especially other people’s.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Palestine seems to be the Compromised
Land.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The young woman with money and a wish
to marry means opportunity for the young,
penniless professional man.” — “S. M. Herald.
Who forthwith proceeds to embrace
the opportunity.
The Diff.
“As for gambling, it is in business, too, and
everything in life—including marriage. —Sydney
bookmaker, in defence of his calling, m the
“Sun.”
J picked her for Life’s Handicap.
Alas, to-day I swelter
Beneath the weight of growing cares—
She’s making it a Welter.
O’er what I must in future face
My blood in prospect curdles;
She’s made life such a Steeplechase
Ahead 1 see more Hurdles.
’Twixt mat. and races there’s a diff.
My nag ( why did I choose her ?)
1 cant put in a Selling Plate
Where I could hope to lose her.
H. M.
Russian Interlude.
Inside the grim, black walls of the
terrible Vodka Dungeons a prisoner
hummed. Snoroff Snorinski was hum-
ming snatches of “The Brolga Boatman
because his heart was filled with a great
joy.
With savage cunning he was plucking
long hairs from his massive chest and
weaving them into a rope.
Escape and revenge!
Came the dawn and the ghastly sight
of Snoroff standing knee-deep in blood
and snow. Twenty good Russians lay
piled around him.
His eyes blazed with fury, in his soul
was a smouldering hate, and his whole
being was aflame with the lust to kill.
“Ho, ho,” he laughed in deep gut-
turals. “Twenty of your lovers, my un-
faithful swine of a Catarena! No more,
dog of a wife, will you dally with Ivan
Earoff, Peter Buzzoff and all your other
offs. This is your off day! Ho, ho” ■
“Enough, comrade,” snapped the
Ogpu chief, springing from the road-
side, where he had been disguised as a
snowball. “Your ticket?”
“Ticket?” spluttered Snoroff. “Com-
rade. I do not understand.”
“Dog,” hissed the chief, “you are a
traitor to the sacred cause of solidarity.
You are not a member of the Slaughter-
men’s Union!”
Poor Snoroff hung his head in shame.
The Ogpu chief snapped his fingers,
and ten more snowballs came to life.
Ten minutes later the heavy body of
Snoroff slumped to the snow so full of
lead that the Commissar of Metals con-
fiscated it and sent it to the smelters.
D. McM.
Happy-go-lucky.
A cannibal’s a happy soul,
His woes affect him not;
He’s kind to everyone he likes,
And the rest can go to po 1 !
EVA.
How to Become a Handyman.
A COMPLETE GUIDE.
XI.
To be capable of effecting repairs
in an emergency is the true test of a
handyman’s adaptability.
When, for instance, at the height of a
cyclone you hear a tinkling crash outside
the house and shortly afterwards a
rapidly-spreading patch of dampness on
“ Don't stop me —I gotter get a fire-brigade.”
the fibro ceiling of the lounge-room is
followed by steady drips over various
parts of the room you must im-
mediately attack the root cause. Deter-
mine it by a process of calm ratioci-
nation and elimination.
Water can get into the house only
through (a) a defect in the house drainage
system ; (b) a leak in the pipes connect-
ing with the main ; (c) rain getting in.
Obviously (a) can be ruled out first,
as drainage pipes are never placed in the
roof. Possibly ( b ) could be the cause,
as a burst waterpipe might shoot water
up to ceiling height anywhere else in the
house, whence it could seep through into
the lounge-room. A rapid check over
all pipes in the kitchen and bathroom
will soon settle this. Should no leaks be
disclosed it can fairly safely be assumed
that the trouble is rainwater. Linking
this up with the crashing sound you
heard it becomes clear that broken tiles
are your trouble. Q.E.D.
Having finally pinned the trouble
down, the first thing to do is to save
the ceiling from collapsing under the
weight of water, for once the absorbent
fibrous plaster becomes waterlogged addi-
tional water pouring in from the hole in
the roof is liable to bring it down.
Were you foolish enough precipitately
to punch a hole in the ceiling at any
old spot the released water, stream-
ing through, might miss the bucket
placed on the floor and ruin the carpet.
There is a much more scientific and
effective method.
Having rolled up the carpet, select a
portion of the flooring where a hole
won’t be noticed or you won’t be liable
to put your foot through in the future—
directly under where the occasional table
stands will do. Using a keyhole saw,
cut a neat circular hole in the floor-
boards. Measure the distance this is
from the nearest wall. Then, getting
your stepladder, measure exactly the
same distance along the ceiling from the
same wall and mark the spot.
It naturally follows, then, that the hole
you propose making in the ceiling will be
immediately above the one you have
made in the floor, so that the rainwater,
coming through the one in the ceiling,
will fall straight through the one in the
flooring to run away somewhere under
the foundations.
It but remains to poke the hole in the
ceiling. This can be done by skiving
the handle of the broom down to a sharp
point and accurately harpooning the
marked spot.
Don’t rest on your laurels at this stage ;
remember the job is only half done, for
you have the tiles to fix. Patently, it
would be impossible to secure the ser-
vices of a tiler while the cyclone was at
its height. In any case, why pay for a
man to do the job when you can do it
yourself for nothing? To leave the roof
like it is would be to invite further dis-
aster through the wind getting under the
open space and perhaps lifting the whole
roof. It behoves you, then, to get up on
the roof and replace the tiles at once.
If you have a supply of spare tiles, well
and good. If not, you’ll have to piece
the broken ones together, just as you
would a jigsaw puzzle. When you have
them all assembled as nearly as you can
to their original shape give the edges of
each piece a dab with quick-drying
cement and clamp them together. To
give them added strength, tie each tile
around with some stout string or old
stove-pipe wire.
The task of getting up on to the roof
—and stopping there—in the teeth of a
howling wind will be rendered easier by
stringing the tiles on to a belt and fasten-
ing this around your waist. To make
doubly sure that you won’t be blown
off, tie another rope about your middle,
and with the other looped end lasso the
chimney.
As rubber shoes are liable to slip on
a wet roof, bare feet give you a cold,
and to do the job in your socks would
wear them out too quickly, put on your
heavy gardening boots. Several leather
sprigs nailed to the soles will ensure you
that extra grip so desirable to those who
value their necks.
Slip each tile into the place from which
you think it came by lifting the one
above it in the next row. Do this so
that the groove of the one you are put-
ting in slips on to the cross batten and
underneath the lip of the one above it.
If the top one refuses to budge try kick-
ing it into place—here the value of heavy
boots will be appreciated. If it still
won’t go in get the spade and try lever-
ing it in, shoehorn fashion. If all else
fails, you can always fall back on the
sledgehammer to bash them into posi-
tion, but be careful first to wrap a towel
or something round the face of it so that
no further damage will result to the tiles.
Even then the job is not finished.
Make up some stiff cement, say a 1-1
mixture, and with this fill in all the
cracks you can see. If the rain is still
lashing down cover your work up with
bags so that the cement won’t be washed
straight out.
Finally, get up through the manhole
in the bathroom, and with the aid of a
lighted candle firmly tie down all those
tiles you have replaced. If you have
no copper wire a good temporary job
can be made by threading some fishing
line through a darning needle. This
can be passed through the holes in the
tile lugs and fastened in a neat bow
knot around the roof joists.
S.W.K.


• •
ON THE LA6UNE
Venice with its never changing charm—Mecca of every
tourist. Formerly, this famous beauty spot and others
equally attractive to the tourist were months away. To-
day, methods and speed of travel have so advanced that
these distant places are only a few days, even hours away.
With these increasing travel facilities, Travellers’ Cheques
and Letters of Credit, have taken on a greater importance.
Not only are they a great convenience and an insurance
against loss of cash, against pickpockets and hotel thieves,
but they help materially in expediting conversion of funds
into local currency, wherever you travel. For small
amounts, Travellers'’. Cheques are recommended. These
. are issued in denominations of' £z, £5, £lO. For larger
amounts, a Letter of .Credit is recommended.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (Incorporated in Victoria}' >•
61-16-38
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated, in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.-W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: .T. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
fsd
TACKS § SUITS
IN A TCW NUNUTCS
In a non-crushing, lightweight
Globite 5-Suiter, anyone can
pack 3-piece suits like an
expert. Available all stores.
mosm
f
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Raising the Wind
In order to offset “possible repercus-
sions of low export prices on the national
income,” etc., the Loan Council aims to
borrow £41,000,000 during 1939-40, and
it has sense enough to know it won’t
be able to get the lot on the open
market in Australia— or in London.
“Controlled credit expansion” is being
spoken of. The £41,000,000 reintroduces
the fashion for records, but it is a record
something in the style of Lang’s record
deficit for N. S. Wales during 1931-32,
when income was £14,000,000 shy of
outgo. Jt is, indeed a wished-for (by
Premiers) achievement that one can
hardly blow about. And, altogether, a
sad admission on the part of those ad-
ministrators of the public purse who did
so much to “save” us when we were
hard at work “saving” ourselves during
the last slump.
With £41,000,000 of loan money
scheduled for 1939-40, the largest bor-
rowing contemplated by the Loan Coun-
cil since it was formed, there is every
indication of taxes being raised and some
State Budgets being still in a condition
of “off-balance.” N. S. Wales, which
wants nearly £13,000,000 of the pro-
posed loans for next year, will be on
the wrong side when the current year
closes on Friday. The Commonwealth is
asking for £10,000,000 to be spent on
defence, so that the N. S. Wales lump will
be mainly used to bolster up a shaky con-
dition of the Government finances, and
will have little or nothing to do with
defence or responsibilities of such nature.
Already a number of political and
press admirers of “sound finance” are
blathering about our “national assets”
and toying with the idea of raising the
wind on them by adventurous means.
We have had several adventures of recent
years that sounded well in theory
but which haven’t had particularly bene-
ficial results in practice. The Reddaway
award added 6s. a week to the Federal
basic wage (States more or less followed
suit), and if the worker had been that
much better off afterwards the country
as a whole might also have been better
off. But risirfg costs soon offset more
than half this extra wage, and the general
inflation in figures that followed was par-
ticularly hard on those industries (and
they include some of our most essential
industries) that weren’t in a position to
pass the burden on.
The 6s. a week “prosperity” award
was prompted partly by a desire to
“damp down a boom.” Unfortunately
no “dampening” was really necessary. A
farmer who sold a quantity of wool,
skins, etc., for £l5OO in June, 1937, could
get only £lO7O for the same quantity in
March, 1939. Wheatgrowers have suf-
fered to an even greater extent. Yet
costs of production are still in keeping
with “prosperity” ideas, and are increas-
ing. Expenditure is ballooning while in-
comes are falling ; is it any wonder that
Governments are being caught in a posi-
tion where the taxable capacity of the
people is shrinking at a time when un-
employment and demands for “assist-
ance” are increasing?
Recovery from slump had brought to
Australia a period of prosperity the like
of which it has never before seen. Never
was so much development carried out
by the employment of our own men,
money and materials. London loans
were taboo, borrowing within Australia
was restricted, and, though what Gov-
ernments couldn’t borrow somewhere
was raised by means of record taxation
rates, we paid for it all ourselves. It was
a period of great contrast when com-
pared with the 1920’5. Until slump came
at the end of 1929 we were building up
mostly with imported money and
materials.
The “prosperity” period of 1934-35 to
1937-38 was aided by reduced costs that
had followed the putting into operation
of what was then called the “Premiers’
Plan.” How much the Premiers had to
do with its conception is a matter for
conjecture. In any case, it was the
people who accepted the plan and bore
the “cuts” that it embraced. It was
Premiers and their followers who first
decided to restore to themselves any sac-
rifices they may have thought had been
made by them.
Otto Niemeyer (he has been in the
news again lately because of something
to do with a transfer of Czechoslovakian
gold reserves) attempted to sum up Aus-
tralia’s economic position in July, 1930.
He was the economic doctor called in
from England. Part of his diagnosis of
the troubles of 1929-30 seems to apply to
the portion of our economy that is going
wrong in 1939-40:
I think it is generally admitted that the
Australian national income has substan-
tially diminished; it may well diminish yet
further, and from that diminished total you
are driven to take an increased share in
taxation, while at the same time making
heavy calls for loans and conversions on
diminishing current savings in a time of de-
pression.
One may put the same facts in another
form: While values in the world export
market, in which you have to sell, have
fallen, and are steadily falling, values in
Australia have fallen very little, and this
fact itself intensifies the difficulties of
achieving even a trade balance —much less
a trade surplus, which you need to meet
your foreign payments. So long as the
sheltered trades of Australia insist in taking
so large a share of the national dividend,
and even an increasingly large proportion
as the national dividend drops, the diffi-
culties of the unsheltered export trades can
only increase.
Obviously at the moment we are hav-
ing a return of the old complaint. All
the symptoms are present —low export
prices, high costs, increasing interest
rates, difficulty in borrowing, growing
taxation and an unstable Budgetary posi-
tion. Just as obviously, however, the
symptoms generally indicate a milder
dose of the trouble, probably because we
haven’t had enough time since the last
occasion to get in a thoroughly bad mess.
And our economy has been strength-
ened in many directions since 1930 largely
as a result of hard experience during the
depression.
Until we can see some definite stability
in production costs, however, the out-
look will remain threatening. Inflation
in costs has been going on right up to
the present, notwithstanding the falling
national income. Excessive borrowing,
credit juggling, etc., will do no perma-
nent good. Inflating costs mean, eventu-
ally, the dissipation of credit; and if
credit goes there won’t even be any
borrowing.
The. Loan- Council talks of “controlled
credit expansion.” If the Commonwealth
Bank decides, as an emergency measure,
to lend State Governments money created
by mortgaging the future, it should name
as a condition to. such assistance that all
costs-must-be brought down. - It is only
in such circumstances that credit ex-
pansion, can be justified'. •
One of the-,few,-.stocks to, show any
life on ’Change last week• was United
Provisions ords. They were up to Bs. 3d.
at one stage, compared with-7s:'2d: when
pointed- out here in B. 7/6/’39. A div.
is usually paid" on; the ords.' in October,
its announcement preceding, the’ issue of
accounts. Last' year 3 ’p.c. was declared,
and if that rate is repeated this -term a
yield of 7.5 p.c. would he obtainable on
last ,week’s closing quote of Bs.- 2d. U.P.
represents the Hutton and Foggitt Jones
merger.
* * * H=
It was officially announced last week
that negotiations were proceeding be-
tween Hoyt’s Theatres and Greater
Union for a “renewed association.” Be-
tween 1933 and 1937 General Theatres
Corp., controlled jointly by Hoyt’s and
G.U.T., managed the city houses of both
cos. For about two years since the cos.
have gone their separate ways, with no-
thing to skite about in it for either con-
cern. Greater Union’s chairman, N. B.
Rydge, has been in the U.S.A. talking
to the Fox people, who have a control-
ling interest in Hoyt’s, and “the main
features of an arrangement for a period
of 20 years have been settled.” Rydge is
on his way back from the U.S.A. with
details of the proposal, and shareholders
in both enterprises will be asked for
approval of the scheme.
* * * ▼
Great Boulder’s net profit of £172,481
sterling (by cable) for the year to Dec.
31, 1938, compares with £59,182 for the
1937 term. In 1938 315,443 short tons
was milled, against 218,224 short tons in
1937. , Until the 1938 accounts are to
hand from London the remarkable
change in the mine’s earning power per
ton cannot be analysed precisely. In any
case, because of the heavy capital outlay
that has been a feature of the conduct
of this mine in recent years, the 1938
profit isn’t all it might 100k —from a
shareholder’s viewpoint. Divs. paid
during 1938 aggregated only £93,750
sterling—ninepence per 2s. share.
Great Boulder’s working results for
May were the best to date. The ore was
good and recoveries satisfactory, while
mining and milling costs were only
slightly higher than in February. Ore
put through the mill in May totalled
31,580 short tons, from which £75,073
Australian was realised. Working exes,
were' £47,827, leaving a working profit
of £27,246. Capital expenditure was
£10,537. If results on this scale could be
kept up divs. of a shilling a share would
soon be in sight, from actual cash coming
into the co.’s hands over and above all
outlay, of a capital as well as a revenue
nature.
* * * H:
King Island Scheelite has announced a
net profit of £2482 for the six months to
30/4/’39. iScheelite concentrates pro-
duced during the period realised £12,787.
Increased throughput and earnings are
now looked for. The 4s. shares are at
3s. 3d.
* * * H=
The ords. in H. B. Dickie, Melbourne
towelling manufacturer, moved up
strongly to 28s. 9d. last week. A final
div. is due in August.
* * He H*
In Melbourne last week:
After changing hands consistently and in
considerable quantities at prices up to 295. 6d.,
the ord. shares in Australasian Paper and Pulp
dropped back to 285., sellers, buyers offering
~7s. 6d. Thus A.P. and P. lived up to its repu-
tation of being an unsatisfactory market stock,
though it shines with many virtues as an in-
vestment. Some time next month the Gipps-
land woodpulp mill should begin production,
lhe lowest price for A.P. and P. ords. in recent
years has been 265. 7d.
Gordon and Gotch ords. were at their
weakest level for some time, 525. being the
mean quotation. In other periods of uncer-
tainty this stock has held its price remark-
ably well. The last published accounts sug-
gested that the co.’s profits have passed then-
peak for the time being. The ord. div., how-
ever, keeps at 14 p.c., and it is reasonably well
covered.
Ballarat Brewing shares kept up at 495.
buyers, 50s. sellers. Support has been stronger
since the publication of last accounts.


Holeproof Ords., 225.
At last week’s market price the
ord. shares in Holeproof, Ltd., a
leading hosiery manufacturer,
yielded 9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Costs in the trade are in-
creasing, but the co. is now firmly
established, with good margins ot
profit over ord. divs.
\Vv
w
ttO OT
IS
it
/r-s
>/
* This illustration was drawn in the Victoria Palace Tudor Lounge
business or pleasure brings you to Mel-
bourne, for a week or a weekend, stay at the Victoria. It’s
so convenient for all you want to do in the heart of the
city, near the business centre, shops and theatres, handy
for trams and trains. And the complete service, the
elaborate cuisine, and the luxurious comfort of its quiet
rooms make the Victoria a home for you in Melbourne.
VICTORM PBIBtI
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ROOM ONLY, DAILY
TARIFFS
Doubles, 8'- to 16/-
Singles, 4'~ to 7/6
Sidney D. Horne. Manager
(Next Town Hall)
Write for illustrated Booklet
“ MELBOURNE HOLIDAY ”
to Room 136, Victoria Palace.
V
Send 2d. in stamps to cover postage ♦
pOVVER
rUU*
instanuy/
if
what
Oh
a
1
makes
Benzol
„ s«* '"Jfi 3»
* %’srtrt js£
petrols jk noV7er tos- t i 8 a
assure tuH P Tur* enn “ L s ffl ore
coldest *ea bensol =°" units'
sc ien fWnul Units (po« Wg
Btitislt , ha n Pf pim GAU. oN -
P» P
mean
C173.275P
to*
pE°
S«J
CP
m
THERE’S
A GRADE TO SUIT YOUR GAR
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-lranian Oil Co. Ltd.) Incorporated in Victoria
In Maoriland, in spite of the
Dominion’s rather embarrassed external
appearance, there are signs that most
people refuse to believe that times are
hard. During the year ended March 31
passenger and freight railway traffic rose
slightly in comparison with the preced-
ing term, and both traffic and revenue
in respect of the Government motor ser-
vices were up. On March 31 there were
307,931 motor vehicles licensed within the
Dominion, compared with 280,327 twelve
months earlier. The number of wireless
licenses in force on April 30 was
290,002 ; a vear earlier the figure was
262,852. People are still going insolvent
in Enzed, but the number of bankruptcies
during 1938 was no more than 74, com-
pared with 86, 93, 106 and 99 back to
1934. Electric-power consumption is in-
creasing rapidly; in the year to March,
1937, 727 million units was supplied from
the main Government substations, to
March, 1938, 868 million units, and to
March, 1939, 1029 million units. “In-
vestments” on the tote lifted from
£6,220,520 in 1937 to £7,201,820 in 1938 ;
in April, 1939, £l,OOO/736 was toted com-
pared with £894,306 in the same month
of the preceding year. The statistician
computed that there were 726 unem-
ployed males on March 11, 1939, com-
pared with 6695 on March 12, 1938. The
figures in both cases exclude “men on
sustenance but totally unfit for employ-
ment for health or other reasons (7256
at March 11, 1939). Men in full-time
subsidised employment are also excluded.”
Money wages rose 26 p.c. between 1935
and 1938, compared with 12.7 p.c. in
the Commonwealth during the same
period. In Maoriland since 1935 the
cost of living has risen 14 p.c., com-
pared with a lift of 7.8 p.c. in the Com-
monwealth. In other words, employees
in each country are actually better off
to the extent of less than half the rise
in money wages, with Maorilanders hav-
ing gained more than Australians.
% X * *
Tableland Tin Dredging, N.L., Return
Creek, Mt. Garnet (Q.), reports that the
electrification of the bucket drive and
the alteration to the screen drive of
No. 1 dredge have been completed, and
that dredging was resumed on June 9.
The dredge is now working satisfac-
torily. Between June 9 and 21 nine
tons of concentrates was produced,
and it is expected that a recovery rate
of approximately 25 tons a month will
be maintained, giving an estimated profit
of £2OOO a month. Construction of the
co.’s big dredge is now to be started ;
tenders will be called forthwith for the
supply and erection of the hull and super-
structure.
* * * *
“Smith’s Weekly,” Sydney, is for sale,
subject to ratification by shareholders.
The investigating committee last week
reported that the only asset left to the
pref. shareholders was plant. The direc-
tors proposed selling this plant and hav-
ing “Smith’s” printed as a magazine by
a job printer. Shareholders rejected the
magazine idea, preferring the sale-and-
liquidation scheme. Joynton Smith said
he had been advised by the “best news-
paper brains in Australia” to support
the magazine plan; Stan Cross stated
that lack of finance precluded a return
by “Smith’s” to a “national” weekly
status in place of its present form of' a
“popular” newspaper.
* * * *
Australian Mont de Piete, of Mel-
bourne, is issuing 20,000 6 p.c. cum.
prefs. of £1 each, half of them to be
offered to existing shareholders and the
rest to the underwriters of the issue
(James Dunlop and Co.) or their
nominees. The present paid capital is.
£39,960, and average profits', over the past
five years have been £5656. A.nnual'diy. of
the new pref. issue will be £l2OO, covered
4.7 times by-average earnings. Net.asset
backing works out at £5 2s. lid. per
pref. share, and the issue should be well
received. The new money is required
because of general expansion of business,
which has been very profitable for a
number of years. The ord. shares, which
up till the present wOre the only variety,
issued, are very tightly held. ... .
* V ; * *
Steel production in. the U.S.A. has
been a good'deal better lately," and there
are hopes of some revival in trade gener-
ally. Wall-street was firmer last week,
after slipping back a fortnight ago. Lon-
don ’Change was still very quiet, and
Australian markets were mostly in sym-
pathy with London.
jjc H»
Tin was outstandingly firm at £229 a
ton last week in London. Other metals
were dull.
Hi He He
Interest in Carlton and United
Breweries holding co. scrip (B. 21 /6/’39)
was not long maintained at the record
prices reached on June 15. Carlton, after
touching 705., later sold at 695., and then
sellers offered the scrip at that figure,
with buyers suggesting 665. 6d. At the
end of last week sellers were offer-
ing the whole range of C.U.B. holding
co. scrip at lower figures; buyers were
not conspicuous. The setback was in
keeping with the general trend of the
sharemarkets. But on a 68s. basis Carl-
ton returned 4.4 p.c. (15 p.c. div.), against
4.5 p.c. from Tooth, the leading Sydney
brewery. It shouldn’t be forgotten, how-
ever, that Carlton’s undistributed profit
and equity in C.U.B.’s earnings repre-
sented another 2 p.c. on the market
price of Carlton scrip, as against 0.6 p.c.
in the case of Tooth shares. There is
the question, of course, as to which con-
cern estimates its profits on the more con-
servative basis, because, after all, profit-
writing can only be a matter of estima-
tion.
* * *
Shareholders in Compressed Medical
and Industrial Gases decided to ask the
Australian Oxygen Co. to lift its offer
for their business by another £27,000, so
that shareholders could be paid off at
20s. in the £1 (excepting 8640 vendors’
shares, to be paid off at 3d. in the £1).
Australian Oxygen’s original offer was
£47,028 for all the assets excepting book
debts.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Rift in Anglo-German Relations.
[ln this digest of his calm and deeply-reasoned
article in the “Fortnightly” for June some injustice
has had to be done to Edmund Blunden’s admirable
English style; but the substance of it is here —an un-
ruffled examination of the deterioration in Anglo-
German relationships, written from the broad human
view, as distinct from the violent political view which
colors the bulk of cable-reporting on this vital prob-
lem. Unlike those who keep urging for war against
Germany—as furiously in Australian as in English
newspapers—this writer fought in the other war against
the Germans, and his Undertones of I Var remains one
of the most notable of the “war-books.”]
If we look back to the years after the Armistice,
we know that we inclined towards a generous recon-
ciliation with Germany. We went so far as tem-
porarily to excite considerable animosity against us
in the mind of France, and the war-rumor-dealers at
one stage even augured that the next bombs to fall
on London would not be German.
Meanwhile, the experiences of 1914-1918 were
reviewed by surviving participants—and were con-
demned increasingly in many books as a hideous error.
The awakened memories of four years (which had
been four eternities) of frightful havoc, and the re-
maining distresses of all kinds which had been caused
by the war, made us all stand for peace 10 years ago
with a solemn resolution.
During the period concerned, the German neoole
had not been precisely in Easy-street. My first glimpse
of them out of uniform was at the time when meir
currency collapsed, and their wreck looked almost past
salvage. It was a trial that was endured with cour-
age, but with evident and intelligible strain not to be
lightly described. Still, the recollection of that people’s
tremendous displays of bravery and of ability in the
war, and notably of the extraordinary efforts which
had opened with the offensive of March 21, 1918, sug-
gested that even these problems would be solved.
In those days one heard it said by thoughtful
Englishmen that a new leader was badly needed;
someone whose personal force and effluence should
lead us through our unrest and our complication.
None arose. The same idea was spreading in Ger-
many, and, as we now know, a leader was forthcom-
ing. It is asserted that the German people has been
enslaved by those whom our press so often calls, in its
jovial style, “gangsters” ; but argument as to the cleav-
age between the present German Government and the
German public appears to be a waste of words. The
vision of Germany in revolution is adduced as “a way
out” of our misunderstandings ; but it just will not do.
Our approach to something of harmony with Ger-
many must be founded in a plain admission of the
absolute trust that the Germans place in Hitler.
The adversaries of Nazi Germany appear to
demand utter perfection and faultlessness —or they
announce the whole work to be contemptible. They
fasten on this or that case of failure or worse —and
it is possible to find such cases —and by that instance
they protest that the rest of the plan is to be found
guilty. What if this sort of argument be applied to our
own form of government, or to that of any other
country? We are greatly provoked if (as we have
led the way) speakers or writers in Germany allude
to our unsuccessful arrangements in India, in Ireland,
in Palestine. Perfection is not vouchsafed to any of
the sons of men.
I cannot see much prospect of persuading the
opposed debaters that Germany is in normal circum-
stances very much our friend. There is a habit of
rejecting direct observation and retaining a good thick
venerable prejudice. It is not always so venerable. Let
anything happen in Europe or beyond which may be
attributed to a dictatorship’s wantonness, and in-
stantly the stately or suburban homes of England are
loud with the armor-plated assertions of “authori-
ties” on the local circumstances. Bezonia is in the
headlines —at once men who must have been pas-
sionately interested in the Bezonians since Mr. Glad-
stone asked, in a moment of scholarship, “Under
which king, Bezonian?” give me the benefit of their
lifework. And their name is Legion. We have
become unprofitably ready to build up strong and
threatening opinions on very slender bases of know-
ledge. Some European questions are really too com-
plex to be set about in this lusty way.
Is this entirely our fault? Yes. But there is
something to be said for us, in passing. We live in a
journalistic country. It is posters, posters all the way.
As I sit on the bus top I hear kindly Britons reading
out aloud the strident inscriptions of the hour:
“Nazi Fury” over this, “Hitler Recalls Envoy” over
that, “Mussolini’s Ban on Euclid,” “Heligoland Pre-
pares.” I am told that people grow inured to these
queer injections of pride and prejudice. The Continent
does not, for it does not have them. We are the corpus
vile. But whose fault is that?
In September last an especially dangerous inter-
national situation was reduced to a shadow, and a
prospect of cheerful peace substituted, through the
action of four leaders, and probably through that of
Mr. Chamberlain most of all. The outcome was
peace, and not a dull kind of stoppage, but a point
of departure for conference and evolution. Press
correspondents quite looked about for nice things to
say about their usual foreign ogres. What followed?
I can only give the impression of a single observer,
but it will haunt me all my life. An English states-
man had exchanged an honorable promise of peace
and reasonableness with a foreign leader. We were
all apparently overjoyed. Within a few days, our press
loosed a tremendous denunciation of the peace pact,
and the foreign leader was abused with the strangest
excess. We were assured that it had been a question
of bluff, and that our bluff ought to have been better.
At such a time, with the fate of millions depending
on a word perhaps, our Prime Minister ought to have
thought in terms of sharp practice. What an ideal for
the English character!
It has seemed to me that our published references
to foreign affairs and statesmen were lacking in some
respect —in our traditional sense of humor, maybe?
In our national sang froid? In our bearing as the
greatest empire in the world? True, we have been
confronted with actions which, in isolation, have
struck us with astonishment and, seen so, assumed
forms of violent injustice; but their complete history
requires our patient consideration. Our opinions are
officially free; but our judgment has been shaped
for us more than a little, and, unless the unexpected
happens, the English will go on under a periodical
direction which has been curiously amplified since the
racial discriminations in Germany. It does not seem
to me at all unnatural that the German propagandists
have taken part in the paper warfare or that of the
wireless waves. They do not, through some odd trail
in their disposition, realise that they always begin these
exchanges. We are consequently very much hurt
when, on our hammering out the word “Aggression,”
they send over the word “Encirclement.” But surely
this whole department on both sides ought to take a
long holiday; and if they are to start again, let them
toss up for first innings.
I am sorry that the English public is given so
little sense of Germany, apart from the political topics,
of which we are given so much. It is high time that
the flourishing ordinary life of Germany, the whole
remarkable range of it from the workshop to the opera,
should be made once more a part of our news. The
monotony of the present disproportional system, sup-
-“Nebelspalter,” Switzerland.
A SWITZER’S VIEW OF CHAMBERLAIN.
pressing those humanities, is equal to its immorality.
We ourselves must be the chief losers by it.
Good relations of England and Germany are
utterly necessary to the survival of both. I have had
no occasion to speak of the charges made against the
German regime, and I should not wish to defend
some of its actions; but my purpose was to appeal
for a broader view of Germany as it is, and a keener
search for what is valid in our general decisions on
Germany and other countries not ruled according to
our preferences. The chief thing, however, which may
emerge from the minority suggestions is the last: we
shall be wise, for some time to come, to avoid tabloid
philosophy. Neurosis is abroad, and it lives upon
catch-phrases. It is so easy to repeat, after Munich,
“I can’t hold up my head,” and recently, “War is
inevitable.” It is easy, but wrong. The Ten Com-
mandments suffice as useful bywords. Or, if they
have been mislaid in the turmoil of the last year or
two, there was a new Commandment —which does
not lead to millions of smashed bodies, and shattered
lives, and a chaos out of which the few may crawl
faintly back towards another jumping-off point for
inferno.
' Japan’s Rival Policies.
[From an article by Air Commodore L. E. O.
Charlton, reprinted in “World Review” from the
“Bulletin of Far Eastern Service,” London.]
It has to be remembered that Japan is a first-
class naval Power, as well as being strong on land,
and that the war of invasion, which absorbs her mili-
tary energies, has not called forth any corresponding
exertion from her fleet.
In Japan there are two schools of thought in re-
gard to her expansion, the continental and the South
Sea, the former being identified with her army and the
latter with her navy. Professional rivalry exists between
the two services, and the military mutiny of 1936,
during the Premiership of Admiral Okada, was an
expression of the army’s insistence that naval policy
should not gain the upper hand. In effect, that policy
operated to discountenance serious military adventure
on the mainland, chiefly because of the dangerous
liability of long land frontiers, and to use the resources
of the country on advancing sea-power towards the
south.
For the last three years the army has completely
ruled the roost, and the Chinese “incident” is a con-
tinuation of the interrupted policy of expansion on
the continent, the ulterior object of which is to make
the heavy industries of Japan for ever independent of
foreign supply. Nevertheless, the navy is still attracted
to its “Nankai” (South Sea) programme, and must
have urged the advisability of occupying Hainan and
of seizing the Spratley Reefs, with an eye to furthering
its ambition under the pretext of military necessity.
The seizure of the Spratley Isles had no relation to
the war with China. It was an act of sheer impudence
towards France, to whom, more properly, the group
belongs, and would be requited as such if the situation
in Europe did not tie the hands of the French and
deter them from aggressive means of remonstrance.
The Anti-Comintern Alliance, ostensibly directed
against the spread of Soviet doctrine, can be used in
other ways as well, and there can be little doubt that
the senior European partners are in consultation with
Japan over her policy of sea-encroachment south. In
the same connection the fact must not be overlooked
that a strategic value attaches to Japanese ownership
of the Spratleys as an aircraft base for future opera-
tions in the East Indian area when the World War
breaks.
The occupation of Hainan in the face of a French
warning against such action was another straw to show
the direction of the South Sea wind, although it must
be confessed that military necessity might be pleaded
in that particular instance. The junk traffic from
Hainan to the Kwantung coast did develop into a
gun-running activity of some importance which it was
desirable to end. But its chief significance lies in the
fact that a potential enemy is gradually encircling
French Indo-China, and can already exercise pressure
against its northern territory via the Gulf of Tongking.
It is little realised how weak in a military sense
French Indo-China is, though it is quite patent that
she would have great difficulty, at the present junc-
ture, in reinforcing her strength so far from home.
For the time being Japan is cock of the naval walk
down there, and as soon as the prospect brightens for
her of a European war she will be in a position to do
some easy mopping up.
Siam, France’s nearest land neighbor, has no
great liking for France, and remembers that the French
colony includes territory formerly part and parcel
of her kingdom, which was forcibly acquired. Siam,
which does not view with abhorrence the depredations
of Japan in China, has a law of universal service and
possesses a navy and air force neither of which is a
negligible quantity. When the “showdown” takes
place, French Indo-China would be most uncomfort-
ably placed between the land pressure of Siam and the
sea-power of Japan.
To provide for these and other eventualities,
there is little doubt that Japan is making preliminary
dispositions. There need no longer be a choice
between a continental and a South Sea policy, and
service rivalry may die a natural death. The Nankai
policy can be prosecuted hand in hand with aggression
on the mainland, for, in her magnificent ideal, there
will be no local power to oppose her. Such are the
plain significances of her fleet activities of late.
Italy Sacrificed to Fascism.
o Condensed from an “Empire Review” article by
Sir Charles Petrie .)
When he first assumed power Signor Mussolini
appeared determined to follow Italy’s old cautious
tradition. “We wish,” he told the Chamber of
Deputies on November 16, 1922, “to pursue a policy
of peace, but not one of suicide.” A few days later,
in the Senate, he returned to' the subject: “Above
all, I intend to pursue a foreign policy that shall not
be adventurous, but shall be in no way renunciatory,”
and again, “Our policy will not be one of Imperial-
ism which seeks the impossible.”
The man who used this language was not the
one who has tied his country to the chariot-wheels of
Berlin more firmly than ever was Austria-Hungary in
the past, and who has alienated Great Britain by seiz-
ing Albania on the very anniversary of the treaty
guaranteeing the status quo in the Mediterranean.
Two explanations of the changed attitude of the Duce
are possible. One is that he has come to place the
interests of Fascism before those of Italy, and the
other is that he is no longer in effective control. There
is a good deal of truth in both theories.
Nearly 80 years have elapsed since the kingdom
of Italy came into existence, and during the whole of
that period Teutonic pressure from the north has
been a nightmare to Italian statesmen. Though Signor
Mussolini was always reluctant to forward a Habs-
burg restoration, the only sure method of keeping
the Germans out of Vienna, he was prompt enough
to defend the independence of Austria on the morrow
of the murder of Dr. Dollfuss. Yet when Herr Hitler
seized that country last year not a dog barked at the
Palazzo Venezia, though it can hardly be claimed
that what was thought worth a war in 1934 was of
no importance at all in 1938. The explanation lies
rather in the course of events in the interval.
Signor Mussolini was entitled to more sympathy
from the Western Powers in the matter of Abyssinia
than he has received, and a different attitude on the
part of Mr. MacDonald at Stresa might well have
prevented the development of the present dangerous
international situation. Where the Duce made his
mistake was in allowing Herr Hitler to exploit the
difficulties which arose between Rome on the one
hand and London and Paris on the other, after the
imposition of sanctions. He had won his war in
Abyssinia, and his prestige at home was probably
higher than it had ever been. Italian interests de-
manded that he should let bygones be bygones where
Great Britain and France were concerned, and thus
recover his country’s historic liberty of action. In-
stead, he forged the Rome-Berlin axis,, which is to-day


a definite alliance, with the result that Italy is now
an independent Power in name alone.
The reason for this grave blunder by a man who
had hitherto hardly made a mistake can only be that
he was concerned more with the interests of Fascism
than with those of Italy. Encouraged by those closest
to him, notably by his son-in-law, Count Ciano, the
Duce has developed a contempt and a dislike for every-
thing English and French which he was far from
entertaining when he was proud to describe himself
as the disciple of Georges Sorel and the collaborator
of Sir Austen Chamberlain. The British and French
press was critical of Fascist policy, particularly after
the Abyssinian war, and this exasperated Signor Mus-
solini to the extent of blinding him to every other
consideration. From Berlin, too, came a steady stream
of arguments to the effect that if the Fiihrer and the
Duce did not hang together they would hang sepa-
rately, and so it has come about that unhappy Italy
is bound in the closest alliance to a Power which is in
reality her deadliest enemy. If war should result, her
position would be equally desperate in the event either
of victory or of defeat. With the fate of Austria-
Hungary before his eyes Signor Mussolini has placed
his country, in relation to Germany, in the position
of the fallen Dual Monarchy.
The second theory to account for the recent
foreign policy of Italy, namely, that Signor Musso-
lini is no longer in effective control, follows from the
first. It is inconceivable that he would have taken
such a line of action 10 years ago, and there is in-
creasing evidence that Italy is governed to-day by a
triumvirate of Count Ciano, the Foreign Minister;
Signor Starace, the Secretary of the Fascist Party, and
Signor Farinacci, the editor of the “Regime Fascista.”
Widely different as are the origins of these three men
they have it in common that they are Fascists first
and Italians afterwards.
There can be little doubt, however, that the over-
whelming mass of the Italian people are opposed to
the foreign policy of their rulers, though whether this
repugnance would go so far as to bring about a break
with Germany did war appear inevitable is another
matter. Indeed, it is more than likely that Berlin has
already taken the necessary measures to deal with
any such eventuality. What is certain is that the Ger-
mans are cordially disliked in Italy. The French, it
is true, are unpopular, but the English are definitely
liked, and the idea of war against Great Britain in
the interests of Germany fills the ordinary Italian with
disgust as well as apprehension. It matters, however,
very little what he thinks.
It is thus impossible to resist the conclusion that
Signor Mussolini, or the triumvirate which acts in his
name, is imperilling all the splendid achievements of
Fascism by this adventurous foreign policy dictated
from Berlin. During the first 12 years of the regime
there was a record of steady progress which was the
envy of the world. The status of the working-classes
was raised to a level previously unknown, land
reclamation was effected on an unprecedented scale,
and a new spirit of optimism and confidence was in-
stilled into the whole people ; if all this was brought
about at the expense of the disappearance of Parlia-
mentary democracy the loss was being more than
counterbalanced by the establishment of the Cor-
porate State, which bade fair to be the Italian con-
tribution to the political and economic thought of the
century. Now every consideration is being ruthlessly
sacrificed to preparations for a conflict in which, who-
ever is the victor, Italy must be the loser.
Precarious Rumania,
[One of Britain’s ever-increasing European commit-
ments, as reported on by a London “Times” special
correspondent.]
Rumania’s natural wealth remains largely un-
tapped. Her defensive forces remain bare of material
and equipment—the 15 army divisions are but scantily
supplied with artillery, and the rudimentary air force
claims only 200 to 250 machines fit for fighting ser-
vice. Her administration is ill-paid and ill-trained.
Ideological German influence has in the last six
months ebbed dramatically. With the death of its
leader, Codreanu, the Nazi-inclined Iron Guard suf-
fered a blow from which it has not recovered. Any
disposition to re-form the movement that might still
have lingered was crushed with the German invasion
of Czechoslovakia. All that remains of the Guard
to-day is the stratum of anti-Jewish feeling on which
it built its programme. The strength of that feeling
must not be underestimated. It feeds largely on the
fact that most of the capital wealth of Rumania is in
the hands of Jews. So deep-rooted is it that King
Carol’s own dictatorship has sought and seeks to
appease it, though by measures which are as yet mild.
Unless it can be appeased, it continues to offer, to
those who would use it, temptingly inflammable
material.
Rumania wishes to exchange her raw materials for
capital goods, and if possible to expand her slight
manufacturing industry. One country alone can meet
her wishes —Germany. And for Germany Rumanian
oil —its annual production is about equal to German
peace-time consumption —is highly desirable. By the
German-Rumanian trade agreement German and
Rumanian industrialists contract to exploit, by means
of mixed companies, Rumania’s undeveloped resources.
In principle Rumania obtains her desired aid from
abroad—in the form of skill and experience—and
Germany her desired entry into the country.
The agreement with Britain safeguards a certain
liberty to Rumanian commerce ; it represents a knit-
ting of ties where before they were loose. But the
agreement with Germany goes beyond commerce, con-
ceding the Reich a footing inside the Rumanian
economy.
Against excessive German demands Rumania can
now call in the promise of Britain’s support. Yet she
is not wholly happy in the equilibrium ; were she so,
she might afford to be less regardful of German sus-
ceptibilities than she is. The German Reich looms
very near, its pressure is still strong and promises to
become increasingly so. Great Britain is distant, her
strategic interest in Rumania has hitherto been
secondary, and her military aid, if and when de-
manded, may conceivably prove tardy. The Anglo-
Turkish agreement, complementing the British uni-
lateral guarantee, has steadied somewhat this tremu-
lous balance ; has tilted it, if anything, unfavorably to
the Reich. But on the whole the policy of balance
remains.
Behind the smaller countries of the West there are
ranged larger and more powerful States acknowledg-
ing a vital stake in their independence ; thus stands
France to Switzerland, and Great Britain to the Low
Countries. But behind the smaller countries of the
East there lies no such guardian Power. For that
reason Czechoslovakia fell. For that reason Rumania's
security is still incomplete. Russia would seem
appointed to fill the role but beyond the Dniester
Russia has hitherto remained aloof, enwrapt and
enigmatic. Even now that she is emerging from her
fastness Rumania is hesitant to accept her, finding
her odious in her creed and perfidious in her history.
To overcome these her old antipathies is Rumania’s
immediate task, just as it is Russia’s to show them
to be groundless. If confidence is established the his-
torical need of this unstable region will be fulfilled.
Plea for a Peace Conference.
[A speech by the Earl of Darnley, following a
statement on Britain’s latest foreign policy by Lord
Halifax, in the House of Lords, reported in “Peace
News.”]
I have listened with great interest and attention
to the description of the Government’s foreign policy
which we have been given by the Foreign Secretary,
and it seems to me a very sad message to give to the
world.
It seems to me to be entirely a statement as to the
course of the disease and nothing to do with the pos-
sible cure. It seems to me that we are but playing
some ghastly game of chance in which the counters
are human lives and in which there is no possible
benefit to be gained by anybody.
The position is that an anti-aggression camp is
being formed against aggressors. If the anti-aggressors
succeed in frightening the aggressors into peace by a
display of armed force, will it be a good peace? I say
it cannot be a lasting peace because the causes of un-
friendliness between nations will still be there and pos-
sibly increased. If it brings war it is even worse, for
war is by now known to confer no benefits on victor
or vanquished.
Is there not something better? Cannot we go a
little deeper into the cause of this disease? I am sure
I am in a minority if I say that I think the only pos-
sible solution is to continue the gallant policy of dis-
cussion and conciliation inaugurated by the Prime
Minister last September, in spite of the fact that every-
body thinks that, because it has failed, or apparently
failed, once, it is of no use trying it again.
I think that that policy has suffered from the use
of the word “appeasement,” which implies giving up
something for the cause of peace, whereas the prin-
ciple should consist of the statement by all parties
equally with the idea of dispersing grievances by dis-
cussion.
Let us take a simple analogy from human life.
If human beings or groups of human beings have a
quarrel, they know perfectly well that until they meet
and talk it over there can be no way of finding the
real cause of the trouble, which may perhaps be
buried long in the past, nor of dispersing the ill
feelings.
That is usually considered the best way of settling
a quarrel, far better than blows or expensive litiga-
tion. Is it not the same with nations? This crisis, like
other crises, is not the result of a few weeks or even
months. They owe their origin to old sores, which are
buried in the past, perhaps 10 years, or even 50 years,
old, together with their children, jealousy, fear, resent-
ment and repression, which are well known to be
parents of aggression.
Until nations come together in a proper spirit of
give and take, these old sores cannot be uncovered
and healed, nor can the causes of unfriendliness and
grievances be ventilated and dispersed.
But whatever happens at the conference table,
if the nations do meet together it is absolutely certain
that much can be done to allay these ill-feelings,
because there is a personal element introduced when
the heads of nations come and discuss matters with their
enemies, the heads of other nations, and the position
must be bettered for the future.
The present position must make matters worse.
Every day there are daily hatreds blared in the news-
papers and on the wireless. There are daily statements
of grievances, daily defiances, daily statements of in-
creased armaments. These go on increasing until at
last the feelings of the nations get inflamed to burst-
ing point, and common or garden citizens who have
no wish except to live at peace with others have their
minds hardened and the hair trigger is set.
The policy I am advocating is not a policy of
pacifism or idealism, nor is it a vision of Utopia.
Heaven knows there are plenty of problems in
the human machine to be solved in peace-time. But
I do claim that it would be a wonderful thing for
England to do, to-day, to continue this policy, to put
aside her own fears and grievances, to disregard en-
tirely the differences and dangers and apparent futility,
because of an ardent desire for the betterment of the
lot not only of our own people, but of all the men,
women and children of the civilised world—to per-
severe until success comes, for come it would, because
the policy would have behind it the whole weight of
—“Haagsche Post,” The Hague.
ALL DOORS HAVE BEEN LEFT OPEN FOR
NEGOTIATION.
Christianity, which, whether believed in or not, is
acknowledged to be the finest set of rules for the guid-
ance of human conduct.
Germany Builds Submarines.
[Condensed from a London “Daily Mail” article
by Lt.-Commander Kenneth Edwards, who served for
many years in submarines.]
The British Admiralty’s preoccupation with in-
creased submarine building by Germany is reflected
by the great increase in the building of anti-sub-
marine and trade protection vessels this year. Last
year not one destroyer or escort vessel was included
in the British naval building programme ; this year
two flotillas of destroyers (16) and 22 escort vessels are
to be built.
Before the 1935 Agreement went by the board
Germany decided to increase her submarine tonnage.
Last December she possessed 64 submarines- —more
than the British Empire (54). The German craft were
smaller than the British, so that a numerical advan-
tage could be attained while still keeping within the
45 p.c. tonnage allowance.
Before the end of last year Germany had built
right up to her treaty allowance in submarines, and it
was clear that she would either have to stop building
these craft or enter into negotiations which, although
not infringing the letter of the Agreement, were a
clear breach of its spirit. She chose the latter course,
and a delegation from the British Admiralty was
forced to fly to Berlin to hear Germany’s proposals
for breaking the spirit of what was, to the British
Empire, the most important part of the Anglo-
German Naval Agreement.
In the past five months Germany has built some
40 submarines, so that she now has in service more
than 100 underwater craft. These submarines are of
three types. Germany, when she first wanted to build
submarines, said they were necessary for the defence
of her coasts. So she built a large number of small
submarines of 250 tons. These were called “coastal”
submarines, but their “coastal” qualities may be
assessed from the fact that the majority of the U-boats
which did such damage during the Great War
were of the same tonnage. It should be noted, too,
that these modern “coastal” submarines have operated
in Spanish waters and in the western Mediterranean.
Germany is also producing a so-called “sea-
going” type of submarine of 500 tons, and an “ocean-
going” type of 750 tons. What are all these for?
Not very long ago I discussed submarine warfare
in general with some German submarine officers.
They were entirely convinced of two things:
(1) Germany lost the Great War because her un-
restricted submarine campaign began too late.
(2) In the event of future war between Germany
and the British Empire the whole German resources
would be devoted from the very beginning to achiev-
ing the paralysis of British maritime trade.
The whole of German naval strategy is based on
the creation of an intolerable threat against the weak-
est point in the armor of a potential enemy. The
British Empire is utterly dependent on the mainten-
Brag.
Mr. Noel-Baker, bragging at the Southport
(Eng.) Labor conference:—
“We write messages for the secret German
Press which circulates in Hitler’s country.”
London “Daily Mail” comment:—
Has Mr. Noel-Baker considered the position
of the Socialist party if ever they should be called
upon to form a Government ? The memory of
association with subversive activities in Germany
would not help relations with Britain.
By all means let us strive to correct false
impressions among the German people, but not
through the underground agencies of those pledged
to overthrow the regime. What Germany does
abroad concerns us. Her internal system of
government is none of our business.
Mr. Noel-Baker’s admission will be a godsend
to the German propaganda machine, which brays
that Britain is engaged in an ideological war
against the Reich. He is playing the German
game.


ance of its maritime communications. It is against
these, therefore, that Germany is creating her greatest
threat.
Already Germany has in commission nearly three
times as many submarines as she had in August, 1914.
She is building them very fast, and there is no doubt
that she has accumulated a large reserve of parts which
can be hastily assembled into complete U-boats. In
1914 the submarine was in its infancy; yet in
November, 1917, Germany had available 178, while
a further 207 were under construction. Germany was
struggling under blockade, yet she was launching
more than 100 submarines a month. Some assure us
that the submarine is not the menace that it was 25
years ago. Certainly, anti-submarine methods of
attack have increased enormously in efficiency. But
in November, 1918, the total number of British vessels
engaged on anti-submarine duties and the defence of
trade was 3253. At the present moment the total
number of British warships likely to be available for
anti-submarine duties and the protection of trade is
only about 250. Developments in anti-submarine war-
fare cannot be said to bridge this gap.
“Peace Front” Difficulties.
(<Condensed from a London “Sunday Times’’ article by
“Scrutator.’”)
Poland and Rumania between them separate Ger-
many from Russia over the whole width of the Con-
tinent from the Black Sea and the Baltic except for
about 100 miles at the Baltic end. Here the space
between Germany and Russia is occupied by three
small buffer States—Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia.
One, Lithuania, has a treaty of non-aggression with
Germany ; the other two, like Belgium, think the best
way to maintain their neutrality if war breaks out is
to decline to pledge themselves in advance to either
side.
Except for this gap at the end of the line, our
guarantees of Poland and Rumania are also guaran-
tees of Russia ; but Russia wants the gap closed, too,
and the issue between us is whether, consistently with
the principles on which we seek to found our Peace
Front against aggression, we can include these Baltic
States in our arrangements against their will.
Mr. Selter, the Foreign Minister of
Estonia, denies it stoutly. In the event of
danger, he says, Estonia might accept
“limited” help from a great Power whose
motives were above suspicion, but until she
was attacked the nature of that support
could not be decided upon. Further,
“should a great Power without our invitation
desire to appear in the role of an assistant
either as the representative of some collec-
tive system or as the defender of its own
vital interests on the soil of the Baltic States,
such assistance would be considered as an
aggression against which the Baltic States
would fight with all their means.”
Words could not be clearer.
But is the Russian demand that we should close
the gap in advance of such practical importance to
Russia as she would apparently have us believe?
There are reasons for thinking it is not. The gap is
so narrow that it is difficult, if only for military
reasons, to believe that Germany would deliberately
use it for a war of aggression against Russia.
The difficulty is largely theoretical and incidental
to the drafting of a treaty* If Belgium or Holland
were attacked, they would not be slow to ask for
our help, and doubtless Britain and France have
already concerted measures of assistance in contingent
response to such a request. The same thing would
happen in the Baltic States. You do not need a pact
beforehand to solve, without the consent of your bene-
ficiaries, a problem which the first act of aggression
will solve with their full consent.
That is so obvious that Italian and German com-
ment affects to believe that Russia’s real motive in
asking us to close the Baltic gap is to make a triple
alliance that will cover not only the weaker States
which may be in danger from German aggression, but
the whole of Russia, including the Far East. There is
reason for saying that the Far East has never been
mentioned or thought of on our side in these negotia-
tions. And in any case what would amount to a
general alliance with Russia for all purposes is much
too big a thing to be tacked on to a contingent alli-
ance with Poland against a specific and localised
danger.
Russia, in fact, gets far too much advantage from
the guarantees to Poland and Rumania to turn our
offers down. She is not likely to refuse the guarantee
of 800 miles of her frontier under the existing agree-
ments for the sake of a gap of 100 miles that will be
closed at the invitation of at least two of the Baltic
States the moment they are actually attacked.
Anxious as all of us are for an end to present
uncertainties, there is no necessity to make hurried
decisions. The critics of the Government present it
with a dilemma. Either, they say, you must conclude
an agreement with Russia without delay (which means
on her terms) or you will be unable to honor your
guarantees to Poland. Either of these alternatives, if
it were sound, would be a strong argument against
giving guarantees to Poland at all, and that is certainly
not the intention of Mr. Lloyd George or any of the
critics.
After all, the Poles themselves are hesitating
whether to agree in advance to admit Russian soldiers
in their country in the event of a German attack, and
we cannot be expected to be more solicitous on their
behalf than they are for themselves. Evidently their
chief hope of the alliance with France and of our
guarantee is not that these will help them to win the
war, but that they will prevent the war. And is not
that our chief hope, too?
The Peace Front is being formed not to bar the
way to future friendship with Germany or any coun-
try, but to open it wide by tilting the probabilities
against success in war ; it opposes no obstacle to legi-
timate German ambition, but only to its satisfaction
by violence or by the threat of violence which makes
peace these days hardly less nerve-racking and obstruc-
tive to domestic progress than war itself. If war were
indeed inevitable and its danger immediate, the argu-
—“Kladderadutsch,” Berlin.
“QUO VADIS, BRITANNIA?” (WITH THE SOVIET
PACT).
ment for haste would be terribly insistent, but it is
precisely this fatalism that Mr. Chamberlain is resist-
ing by every means in his power. His methods have
changed, but certainly not his purpose.
Appeasement is an ugly word for the happy state
of peace reconciled with justice. But the reality
behind it is not dead, and must never die, for it is
to international politics what charity was to St. Paul
of the Corinthians.
Italy’s Colonising in Libya.
(Condensed from a London “Daily Telegraph’’ article
by George L. Steer.)
For a fortnight I have been courteously shep-
herded through Italy’s agricultural colonies in Libya.
This mass colonisation —18,000 Italians in 10
new villages—has only existed since last October;
but I believe that, short of a world war, it will suc-
ceed. Its authors are perfectly frank about their
purposes. First, they say, they wish to relieve popu-
lation pressure in Italy. Statistics suggest that this
statement should be taken “with salt,” for Italy’s
annual increase is 400,000, only 100,000 less than the
ideal absorptive capacity of Libya, as visualised by
its Governor, after 25 years’ effort.
Secondly, they wish to make Libya an Italian
and not an Arab country. Thirdly, they wish to
provide for the defence of the colony with soldiers
raised on the spot, whose instinct will be to fight
doggedly in defence of its own soil. And, fourthly,
they wish to provide the foodstuffs of the Libyan
army locally, to reduce the effectiveness of naval or
aerial blockade.
In the last three aims I believe that they will
succeed. Granted that under a totalitarian regime
discontented farmers cannot make a political science
of grumbling, and that the standard of living of the
Italian peasant is extremely low, I see no reason why
500,000 Italians should not be placed in Libya.
True, this mass colonisation costs a great deal.
The houses and village centres are built by the all-
powerful State. The ground is prepared and sown
for the first year by the State. The peasants are fed
and paid by the State, until, at the end of 25 years,
they have bought themselves into complete ownership
of their properties. The great artesian wells for feed-
ing the soil and the innumerable smaller wells in
Tripolitania for drinking water; the iron aqueduct
in the Jebel of Cyrenaica (where the rock forbids
boring) and the water-lorries which, until the aque-
duct is finished, pass daily between Derna and Ben-
ghazi to fill the great glass and wicker wine-bottles
that the peasants leave, like dustbins, at their front
doors: these are all services paid and performed by
the State. So are the tarred roads in the glittering
white new villages.
It costs a great deal. Officially 1800 farms in
Western and Eastern Libya have cost the State about
296,000,000 lire, plus 90,000,000 lire on roads and
small local aqueducts and 20,000,000 on compensa-
tion, about 400,000,000 lire in all.
Each colony has been planned and designed by
Rome’s most distinguished colonial architect, Flores-
tano de Fausto. The old method of packing six or
eight farmhouses in a group for comfort and com-
pany, which was used in the first colonial experiments
from 1932 to 1936, has been abandoned. The square,
featureless cottages are no more. The architect has
planned a different type of three-roomed cottage for
each village, of strict functional design and flat-roofed,
as befits Mediterranean Africa.
The cottages are grouped, each on its farm,
around the village centre, which consists in most cases
of a handsome modern church, Fascist headquarters,
school, post office and in the same functional block,
softened only by Roman colonnades, the village shop.
In Cyrenaica particularly the first year’s harvest
was excellent. It stood three feet high, sometimes
nearer four feet, and the ears of wheat were twice
as big as anything that the Arabs in these parts had
grown.
In Tripolitania, they said, the work was more
difficult; it was here a real attempt to discipline the
desert, and they had started late last year, so that the
grain which I saw them gathering at Crispi was only
nine inches high, a pathetic little fur upon the sand.
But there they were, working on their knees, picking
it with the hand.
Suddenly I realised that I had come to a cross-
roads in European history. I have been all over
Africa, but I have never seen the white man, withput
native labor, down on his hands and knees squeezing
the grain out of the soil. Did it lead to wealth or
degradation, I wondered. Who could tell? Who
could say more than that the people who did it seemed
to be content in their beautiful if monotonous sur-
roundings, among the pillbox houses that stretched
effortlessly to the horizon?
Recovery in France.
[London “Daily Express” asserts that French ’plane-
production is nothing like what it ought to be, and
caustically suggests that if conscription was introduced
in England to satisfy the French it is now their turn
to do something to satisfy England. However, that
France is making a remarkable recovery from the hope-
less position brought about by “Popular Front” con-
trol is now the theme of many observers writing on
the spot, including E. B. Wareing in the article here
condensed from London “Daily Telegraph.”]
The history of France during the last 20 years
has not been particularly happy, and the pendulum has
swung violently from one side to the other, aided by
the intensity of political passion which characterises
French public life. Scandals and riots occurred and
strikes were endemic, and Governments fell with
alarming rapidity. That background must be borne
in mind, for unless wise statesmanship is preserved
it may, if the external danger passes, become a fore-
ground again.
Now, however, there is an excellent spirit of
solidarity, there are no strikes and there is little
grumbling. Patriotic Frenchmen believe that the two
sides will draw sufficiently close together to enable
both to make concessions. The concession which the
employers must make is the difficult one of not attempt-
ing to exploit the new spirit to wipe out the whole of
the advantages secured by the workers under the
Front Populaire. Many have already disappeared:
will they return? On the other side, longer hours must
be worked willingly if France is to compete with
Germany. The French association of trade unions is
loyally co-operating with both the administrative
authorities and with the employers.
Though Frenchmen have a peculiarly intense dis-
like of paying direct taxes, the new excess profit duties
have been loyally accepted by employers, an impor-
tant and reassuring fact. An equally good sign on
the other side is that the output per individual worker
is increasing, whereas in Germany the contrary is the
case.
A few general points may be picked out of the
economic, financial and social measures which have
been introduced. The main programme of reform has
four main subdivisions: the extension of the 40-hour
week; retrenchment in public works schemes not
directly connected with national defence ; a great over-
haul of the fiscal machinery, resulting in a tremen-
dous increase in the tax yield, and finally various
administrative reforms intended to concentrate the
work of the extensive French civil service in fewer
hands.
The following are some of the figures quoted by
M. Reynaud, the Finance Minister: Production has
risen between November and April by 11.2 per cent.;
the number of hours worked per head has increased
from 39 to 40 a week; the number of employees
working more than 40 hours a week is over 20 per
cent.; since November gold to the value of
£130,000,000 has returned to France, and the Exchange
Equalisation Fund has a reserve of £83,000,000.
The conclusion may be drawn that financially a
great and unexpected improvement has been achieved,
and that if the danger of war could be removed con-
ditions would be ripe for a financial and industrial
boom. The changes which M. Reynaud has wrought
in the restoration of confidence have been described
by calm observers as little short of miraculous.
Both morally and politically there has been a
100 per cent, improvement. The Government has
become stable, and a majority of only seven votes on
a motion of confidence on Dec. 22 was transformed
into one of 145 on May 12. The failure of the general
strike on Nov. 30 reflected a degree of loyalty to M.
Daladier which has subsequently greatly increased,
and it is noted with satisfaction that the German
press is now speaking in a respectful tone of France’s
new access of strength. France is now unafraid
because she is spiritually prepared.
Oracles.
From the “National Review”:— >
In 1914 Mr. Lloyd George publicly stated
that he hoped soon to be able to reduce our
armaments. He disliked armaments.
In 1909 he was one of the chief opponents
in the Cabinet to increased naval expenditure.
Another was Mr. Churchill.
Writing in the “Nation” on October 30,1909,
Mr. Lloyd George expressed himself very
strongly on the “criminal extravagance of un-
necessary armaments on land and sea,” and
so little was he anxious as to the result of being
unprepared that on January 6, 1910, he said,
“We have got more than two men to every one
the Germans have got”
These seers are still giving the nation the
benefit of their wisdom.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Winning Post’s success in the Windarra
Hurdle was only one of many Moonee
Valley surprises last Saturday. On form
the Air Balloon gelding did not appear
to have any chance against Cheery Jack,
another Sydney candidate. The latter
became a 5-to-2 favorite, while Winning
Post figured at 20 to 1.
When leading, Cheery Jack crashed at
the obstacle in front of the stand. His
jugular vein was punctured, and the club’s
vet. had many anxious moments. And
the jockey, George Sholl, had to be re-
moved to hospital with a fractured rib.
At the moment Cheery Jack is regarded
as an unlikely runner in the National
Hurdle. Catastrophes of this kind fre-
quently occur on the eve of a big race.
Mustella has forfeited his National
Steeple engagement through contracting
a chill after falling at Flemington on
June 12 and bolting twice round the
course.
Up to date no Sydney horse ever has
won the National Hurdle. Bar accidents,
Cheery Jack might have broken the
hoodoo. Winning Post impressed by his
gameness, but had to be ridden right out.
He could have been rehandicapped up to
141 b. for the National, but no penalty was
imposed.
Racing is a hobby with George Carr,
the owner of Winning Post. When a
novice at the training game he gave Rand-
wick wiseheads a shock by winning the
Gimcrack Stakes with Princess Dighton,
who was prepared on unconventional
lines.
Bill Burke had the laugh over his critics
when Giant Killer led home the Travan-
core Steeple field. Previous displays by
the gelding over fences suggested that he
disliked the new role. Giant Killer
travelled dashingly for Watts, a new
pilot, and scored with a lot in hand.
Giant Killer (fives) was followed home
by a 20-to-l chance, Bite Again. At no
stage did Grantley (5 to 2, favorite) seem
dangerous. He finished a weary sixth and
has eased considerably for the National
Steeple. Fullarton hesitated in deciding
whether to ride Turf Boy or Grantley in
the National. Now he must be pleased
that he chose Turf Boy.
The victory of Giant Killer and the
vindication of Bill Burke’s judgment have
had the effect of making Green Cape
firm for the National Hurdle. It remains
to be seen whether switching from ’chas-
ing to hurdling will work out as Well as
vice versa.
Taking into consideration that Giant
Killer carried 41b. less than his National
impost on Saturday, the V.R.C. handi-
capper, J. H. Davis, has not increased the
Flemington burden of Burke’s prad.
Though only six competed in the
Chandos Handicap, four of them were
preferred to Double Bard. Now well ad-
vanced in years, the Double Court geld-
ing had not raced since January. He is
trained at Wangaratta by R. A. Hoysted.
Supporters of Double Bard got tens in
parts of the ring, but he started at sixes.
Bob Bailey sat quietly on Double Bard
until the turn, where his mount drew
away to score handsomely.
The Two-year-old Handicap was a
great boilover, Strategy (12 to 1) easily
beating Wellington Maid and Inspector
Scott. Chaldean, a 7-to-4 favorite, cut up
badly.
The nearest that a favorite came to
winning on a disastrous day for punters
was when Rose Princess (twos) lost the
Deep Creek Handicap by a neck to
Match King (14 to 1). Placings might
have been reversed if Harold Badger had
not tried to restrain Rose Princess. She
races best when allowed to stride along in
front.
Owned and trained by D. Mcßae, the
former crosscountry rider, Match King
is by Ronsard (imp.) from Queen
Warbler, by Comedy King from Yipping-
dale (imp.), a half-sister to the dam of
Heroic. In 1928 Yodelist, half-brother
to Match King, ran second to Strephon
in the Victoria Derby.
“Vernon Winn” had a change of luck
in the Greenvale Welter with Keelie,
whom he imported from England a
couple of years ago. The son of
Cameronian opened favorite, but receded
from twos to 9 to 2, Parodier, partly
owned by J. T. Hackett, of Sydney, going
to the head of the quotes.
Parodier failed signally. The son of
Heroic has done so on several occasions
in the last few weeks. Keelie wrested
control from My Boy on the bend and
won comfortably from Lanarus and My
Boy.
* * * *
The V.A.T.C. meeting at Caulfield on
Monday in the interest of charity at-
tracted fields more notable for quantity
than quality, and early in the day pro-
vided indications that the charity wasn’t
for punters. After Stylist had carried
topweight and beaten a moderate lot in
the hurdle race —Sir Gordon was second
and Shanghai third—fancied candidates
were successively skittled in divisions of
the Juvenile Handicap.
Black Robin plodded along to fill third
place in the first division, to Miss Gal-
lant and Blaenelly; then Old Red, who
has several times turned it in when lead-
ing nicely over six, proved incapable of
even going five and a half. Old Red led
by four lengths into the straight, but,
fading over the last bit, was caught near
the post by the bottomweight, Haouli,
with Bursary, also winding up a fair
finishing effort, in third place.
The principal event —the Hospital
Handicap, of about l|m. —was won by
Hopewyn, who had not shown anything
like winning form for a fair stretch of
time, with Great Saint next and Karoo
third. Bellevue acted as pacemaker for
about a mile, but then turned it in. Great
Saint had charge in the straight, and was
hailed as the winner till Hopewyn came
with a flying finish. The highly-fancied
Royal Armour had every chance, lying
in third position most of the way, and
being still there rounding the turn, only
to plod along in the run home.
Carrying 9.10 —including a 51b. penalty
for his Moonee Valley win on Saturday
—Double Bard won the first division of
the Flying Welter with the greatest of
ease, taking charge soon after they turned
for home and thereafter giving nothing a
hope. Hotspur turned in a promising
run, coming from fairly well back, to be
second, with Kaipara—the early pace-
maker —third. Second division went to
Dusty Man, very narrowly, from On
Approval and Iconium. Dusty Man led
from start to finish, but was nearly
caught on the post.
iH * %
Muswellbrook pastoralist Hunter Bow-
man breeds and races horses and has a
useful string. Cherry Bar and Head
Check represented him in the Canterbury
Handicap on Saturday. He fancied Head
Check, whose price firmed from fours
to 5 to 2, Cherry Bar’s weakening from
sixes to tens; “both will run well,” he.
said. Both did, but Cherry Bar won.
She ran past her tiring stablemate at the
Leger, and had a two lengths’ advantage
at the finish, Kurrawid being second and
Head Check third, a length back. The
pacemaker, Val William, was fourth,
ahead of the favorite, Cable Boy, who
would not gallop until the race was
practically over.
Old Silver Ring, winner of the 1934
Epsom, was a starter. He broke down.
The stewards have vetoed any more
racing for the poor old beggar, and it
is a pity they didn’t take this action
long ago.
Mrs. D. L. Clayton was present to see
her colors carried to victory in the Ladies’
Bracelet by Fox Foote. The Sion geld-
ing was favorite at 5 to 2. He was
ridden by the Peak Hill amateur, Les
Quinlan, and beat Rampacre by a length,
Naterra being a similar distance away.
Rampacre ran wide at the home turn,
and then he was forced wide by Fox
Foote, whose rider lost a stirrup. A
protest was dismissed after a long
inquiry; but the Rampacre party was
distinctly unlucky.
Randwick trainer F. Cush was thought
to have a mortgage on both divisions of
the Flying Welter. In the first division
Royal Prince (9 to 4 on) proved the good
thing he looked ; he followed Shackleton
to the home turn and won by two
lengths, Rotorua, owned by stevedore
“Lightford,” being a fair third. But the
grey Arabia, Royal Prince’s stablemate,
failed in the second division, and there
was no possible excuse for him. He
seemed to be going easily alongside of
Tarn at the top of the straight, but
couldn’t, or wouldn’t, run past that mare,
who herself wilted. In a close finish
Correct (12 to 1) defeated Rummage by
half a head, Tarn being two lengths back.
Politesse was fourth. Sent to the out-
side, she dwelt at the barrier and was
last at the half-mile. She finished so
strongly as to suggest that she would
have won with a good start, but her
barrier manners are a big disadvantage.
Jim Pike’s Hole in One, ridden by his
Bourke apprentice, Fell, strolled home in
the first division of the Juvenile at 14
to 1. Favorite, at odds on, was Radical,
ridden by McCarten. Radical was a
poor second, just beating First Move-
ment, and the crowd gave McCarten an-
other hostile reception. He is a very
good horseman on his day, but he has
“off” days.
My Friend (11 to 8 on) romped home
in the second division. He is a Winooka,
so he inherits his speed. He shared the
lead with Climax to the home turn, but
left Climax in the straight; Brazen
Career was third.
Gold Deposit (2 to 1) and Exactor
(6 to 1) ran a dead-heat in the first
division of the Park Stakes. Third was
Denita, who had a bad run. A section
of the crowd in the paddock thought
Exactor, on the outside, had got up.
Near the judge’s box he was slightly in
front, but Gold Deposit made another
effort, and Exactor shifted a bit; and
the judge was right.
Sydney businessman S. E. Chatterton
is finding Cigarette (2 to 1) a paying
proposition. She has now won three
races, and, though on the small side, is
smart up to six furlongs. A smooth
passage enabled her to succeed in the
second division of the Park Stakes;
Bestop and Zanze ran a dead-heat for
second. Cigarette was ridden by Lappin,
who is off to Brisbane to steer Waireka
in the Doomben Newmarket and
Hilarious in the Doomben Cup.
“M.P.”: There was warrant for that pro-
test after the Ladies’ Bracelet at Canter-
bury Park. It was suggested to Higgins, the
rider of the second horse, by spectators
who watched the race from a point of
vantage the wrong side of the judge’s
box. From this position you can see all
the way down the straight, and it was
very plain that Fox Foote was running
wide and forcing Rampacre to run
wider. “Bored him out for half a
furlong,” a punter shouted; and it
did look like that. “Hey, lad,” he
proceeded, as Higgins, returning to
scale, rode by on Rampacre, “don’t
you forget to put in that protest.” And
he didn’t, but it was decided against him.
I don’t know whether the judge and his
assistant were called as witnesses, but
they should have been.
* * * *
Obviously handicappers don’t reckon
Ajax Phar Lap’s equal as a stayer. Phar
Lap won the Melbourne Cup as a four-
year-old with 9.12. At five years his
weight for the Caulfield Cup (he didn’t
start) was 10.11, and for the Melbourne
Cup 10.10. Ajax as a five-year-old will
have 9.12 in the Caulfield Cup and 9.9
in the Melbourne Cup if his owners let
him run. Seeing how careful they were
with him last year this seems unlikely,
but one of the owners allows that the
handicappers have “given him every
chance.”
Naturally Ajax tops the handicaps in
both Cups. Spear Chief is considered
the next best in both, having 9.9 at Caul-
field and 9.7 at Flemington. Nine-seven
is the weight with which he won the
Brisbane Cup and cut the Australasian
record time to 3min. 19|sec., so he has
not been treated badly. Defaulter, not
in the Caulfield Cup, has 9.5 in the Mel-
bourne Cup—slb. more than Mosaic. It
is questionable whether he is 51b. better.
Of well-accredited horses engaged in
both Cups, The Trump has 9.3 and 8.12 ;
St. Constant 9.1 and 8.12 ; Buzalong 9.0
and 8.12 ; El Golea the same ; Catalogue
8.13 and 9.0; L’Aiglon, 8.11 and 8.9;
Marauder, 8.10 and 8.9; Tempest the
same; Malagigi 8.9 and 8.6, and
Millie’s Hope 8.8 and 8.8. This horse
has certainly caught it hot for his early-
winter successes. Many doubles will
begin or close with him all the same.
Among the mares, Early Bird has pride
of place in the Caulfield Cup with 8.8 ;
she has 8.5 in the Melbourne Cup.
Ortelle’s Star’s weights are 8.7 and 8.4;
Cooranga’s 8.3 and 7.13. This mare’s
fast-finishing third in the Metropolitan
was the performance of a stayer. Femin-
ist, who also can stay, has 7.13 in the
Caulfield Cup and 7.9 in the Melbourne
Cup. In that she is well treated.
High Caste (7.8) is handicapped as the
best three-year-old in the Melbourne
Cup. He wasn’t nominated for Caulfield.
Reading has 7.8 and 7.7 ; Bonnie Loch
7.5 and 7.4.
Maorilanders speak highly of Beau-
partir, who is in the Melbourne Cup
only—with 8.11. He will need to be a
good one to beat Spear Chief at the
weights. Feminist and Spear Chief
attract as a double —or Millie’s Hope and
Feminist if the Pantheon filly is reserved
for the Melbourne Cup. Her autumn
form was capital, and she should go on
improving.
* * * *
Ajax was left out of the Epsom and
Metrop. Gold Rod and Spear Chief (each
9.10) head the Epsom weights, with St.
Constant (9.4), Mosaic and Beaupartir
(each 9.3), Catalogue (9.0), Sedunum and
Early Bird (each 8.12) following. These
handicappers have a great opinion
of Early Bird. In the middle divi-
sion are Thurles Lad (8.9), Bah-
wing and Tetreen (8.7), Hybol and Foot-
mark (8.6), Trimmer, Limulet and Mil-
dura (8.3) and Fakenham (8.2). Beaulivre
(8.2), a Maoriland two-year-old, has
been well looked after; Tel Asur, same
age, has 7st. 71b., a pound less than Sid-
cup. Korimako, second in Gold Rod’s
Doncaster, is not overburdened with 7.13.
The Melbourne handicappers’ high
opinion of Spear Chief is shared by the
A.J.C. man, who has given the Queens-
land champion 9.10 in the Metrop. —lib.
more than Royal Chief. Defaulter has
9.7, which seems more than enough; he
concedes 51b. each to Mosaic, St. Con-
stant and Beaupartir, 71b. to Cata-
logue, 81b. to Buzalong, and 91b. to
L’Aiglon, whose owner thinks his horse
is overestimated by all the adjusters of
weights. Cooranga has 8.4, Limulet 8.1,
Bristol 7.13, Pantoon 7.12, Feminist 7.11,
Desolation 7.10, Gilltown, Silenus, Cath-
artes and Braidwood Boy 7.9, Hilari-
ous 7.3.
Mildura and Feminist look the best at
the weights.
* * * *
Theo, winner of the A.J.C. and Vic-
toria Derbies in 1934, has failed to stand
another preparation and has been sent
back to the stud. The A.J.C. handicapper
awarded him 8.10 in the Metrop.
(Continued on page 52.)
“Salmon Gums”: The rabbit had a
twenty-yard lead, and with only fifty
yards to go to the big burrow looked a
sure winner. So when Bill yelled “I'll
bet on the dog,” he was nearly bowled
over in the rush of eager bettors. The
rabbit reached the burrow yards ahead
of the dog, jumped across the first en-
trance, scuttled over the mound and
doubled back under the dog’s nose.
While Bill smiled and the mob cursed,
bunny criss-crossed the mound until
a quick snap ended the run. The mob
paid up, but it’s doubtful if they would
have had they known that Bill had
parked a couple of ferrets in the
burrow.
* * * *
One of the Sydney oarsmen now in
England will return with at least one
handsome memento of his visit, Turner
having won the Marlow sculls. He beat
a Cambridge Uni. lad handily in his heat,
but had to go all out in the final, his
opponent being Pinches, of the London
R.C., reckoned the fastest amateur
sculier in England. Turner beat Pinches
by a couple of feet, his time for the mile
being smin. Bsec. Previous Australian
winners of the Marlow sculls were
Cecil McVilly, the Tasmanian, and Bob
Pearce, since professional champion of
the world.
FOR FLEMINGTON.
G.N. Hurdle: Pooley Bridge;
next, Green Cape.
Kensington Steeple: Grantley ;
next, Bite Again.
Winter Handicap: Gay Knight;
next, Dignitary.
Iramoo Handicap: Footmark;
next, Parodier.


INVItfCIBLP
since
1906.
»-oq
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
18 Improved 1939 Models: 3 to ICO Horsepower. 1,2, 4,
6, 8 and 13 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock. Five Years’
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record for
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they are, size for
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world's market to-day.
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111.. U.S.A.
.. Established in 1906, _
Under the Whip
“T.”: In N. S.W., at any rate, down-the-
line meetings are seedy affairs, and prize-
money is so small that when the owner
of a winner has paid the taxi-man (or the
Railway Department), the float-man, the
farrier and the jockey there is scarcely
enough left to buy a week’s feed for the
little horse. But now and then punters
help to brighten up things. At Kembla
Grange, McCarten, who, notwithstanding
his beaming smile, has become unpopular
with those who try to pick ’em, had the
mount on an odds-on chance and came
in third. The crowd swarmed to the
pickets and greeted him with unfriendly
but conventional remarks: “Murder!”
“Blime, you are ’ot!” “Rub ’im out!”
“Stewards, do your duty!” Presently a
voice made itself heard above the tumult
of commonplaces. “Don’t you ever win
on a favorite, McCarten?” it said. Then
a menial began to hoist the all-right flag.
It halted midway and stuck. “There you
are, McCarten,” the voice piped up again,
“even the flag is half-mast.” And even
McCarten was seen to grin.
* * * *
St. Constant is to run in the Doomben
Newmarket. It will trouble him to give,
a long start in the straight to Trimmer,
and that the pound horse will have to
do, all going well with both. Big as he
is, and awkward as h<» looks, Trimmer
“I cant stand up to these westerlies like I used to.”
can work up tremendous speed in a fur-
long or so. He is favorite for the New-
market, and Cooranga, another Sydney
hope, is favorite for the Doomben Cup.
# # * *
Fullarton could have ridden either
Turf Boy or the S.A. timber-topper,
Grantley, in the Grand National Steeple.
His choice fell on Turf Boy, and
“Morrie” McGrath’s candidate has ad-
vanced considerably in favor on that
account.
Good jumping riders are not scarce
in Melbourne, but trainers seek the ser-
vices of Fullarton as keenly as they did
those of C. J. Boyd 20 years ago, and of
Bob Inkson at a more recent date. Over
hurdles Alex, might not have reached the
Hugh Cairns standard, but as a cross-
country jockey he could stand compari-
son with Tom Corrigan and JimJScobie.
Corrigan had no sense of fear, and
would “ride a horse to the ground.”
Scobie, too, was fearless, and, in addi-
tion, possessed splendid judgment of
pace. The style of riding has changed
vastly since their day. With shortened
stirrups a jockey is almost bound to part
company with his mount when the horse
strikes heavily.
But in weighing the merits of old and
new knights of the pigskin credit
should be accorded the moderns for set-
ting a pace that was unheard of 50 years
ago. Scobie admits that he and others
used to travel quietly in the first half
of a journey and go full bat throughout
the remaining half.
* * * $
Since Sixteen Annas won three races
on end, including the Australian Hurdle
in 1935, no Sydney jumper has caused
much of a stir in Melbourne at Grand
National time ; but the display given by
Cheery Jack in a “school” at Flemington
on Wednesday left an excellent impres-
sion on those who witnessed it.
The A.J.C. Hurdle winner had four
companions. He jumped seven hurdles
and ran 14 miles in 2min. 584 sec., easily
beating Winning Post, who also hails
from Sydney. And three days later he
must go and have a fearful fall at
Moonee Valley, whereas Winning Post
won at 20 to 1.
* * * *
Hautboy has been sold by W. P. Mein
for shipment to India, where so many
useful Australian horses have gone in
recent years. Mein acted on the advice
of his trainer, W. Burke, in accepting a
good price while it was on offer. Nevizes
will represent Mein in the G.N. Hurdle.
$ # * *
Reef (Hauwiri-Miss Peak Hill) was
saddled up by Burke for the Maiden
Plate at Williamstown on Wednesday.
The gelding started equal favorite with
March Morn at fours, and led all the
way to score nicely from Prince Igor, a
10-to-l pop. Bred in M.L., the sire of
Reef broke down in Sydney while being
prepared by J. T. Jamieson for an A.J.C.
Derby.
Bought by “W. J. Pelham” and his
brother, C. F. Taylor, because of close
relationship to Doncaster, who did them
such good service as a galloper, Knight
Errant (Gay Lothario-Donna Serena)
met with heavy support for a division of
the Maiden Plate at Williamstown, but
began slowly, and was beaten into second
place.
Later in the afternoon Rose Princess
did the St. Albans stud better service by
romping home in the Fund Handicap at
6 to 4. She belongs to her breeders, and,
being by Gay Lothario-Balkan Rose is
a sister to Balkan Prince, who, when
trained by Holt, ran third in Wotans
Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
Holt is beginning to set his spring can-
didates —Manrico, Pure Gold and several
rising two-year-olds —against the watch.
Manrico is shaping particularly wel .
After winning the last Standish Handi-
cap, this fellow went wrong in training,
and had to be withdrawn from the New-
market Handicap. He is a sprinter above
the ordinary.
* * * *
Death of Norman Godby in Mel-
bourne last week was not unexpected.
He had been in hospital for a consider-
able time. An injury to his head caused
Norman’s retirement as a trainer soon
after landing the V.R.C. Grand National
of 1923 with Berrinbo, and he became
a chronic invalid.
As a jockey Godby was the equal of
J. E. Pike. They had similar methods
of ridine, being motionless in the saddle
throughout a race yet extracting the last
atom of energy from a mount. Norman
won the Melbourne Cup of 1903 as a
featherweight on Lord Cardigan. Many
victories were scored while he held a
retainer from W. S. Hickenbotham.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Two or three years ago, Jack Wilson,
the Melbourne pug, looked like turning
out a good man, but he was foolishly
matched with a heavier and more experi-
enced coon who gave him a merciless
hiding, and the experience set him back
grievously. Returning to the ring, he
flew at, too-high game—Richards and the
Alabama Kid. In fact, bad match-making
has been the bane of his career.
At West Melbourne last week Wilson
tackled Jim Starr, who has also had his
reverses. Both are 12-stoners, Wilson
(12.2) being 21b. heavier. Jack did pretty
well in the first round, but in the second,
after landing a couple of weighty punches,
he took delivery of a right to the jaw.
It put him down and out, The match
was for “the cruiserweight and heavy-
weight championships of Victoria,” but,
with Ambrose Palmer out of the business,
they don’t matter much.
* * * *
“T.”: Gunner Moir, who was cham-
pion of England when champions of
England were scarcely worth mentioning,
has had the bout which everyone, from
prince to pug, loses—with Death. In
1907 he provided Tommy Burns with an
excuse for getting a large sum of money
easily. They fought at the National
Sporting Club, and Burns staggered Lord
Lonsdale and other members of the old
nobility by demanding his fee before he
would fight—used to fly-by-night pro-
moters in the North America of the
period, Tommy mistrusted the old nobil-
ity. He let Gunner go ten rounds.
Two or three years previously Moir, who
was more wrestler than boxer, was in
Australia as grappling partner to Hacken-
schmidt. While in Sydney he had a mill
with Peter Felix, and polished off that
ageing coon in a few rounds. But it
was Hack, who blazed the comet of the
season. He was one of the best wrestlers
Australia has ever seen. It was his
fashion to slam opponents down in a
minute or so —so severely that some-
times the night’s entertainment ended
there and then. If by any species of
magic he could be restored tq the mat
with the strength and science he had 30
years ago, the American Greeks, Italians,
Lithuanians, Bulgarians, Rumanians,
Serbs, Swiss and Red Indians would drive
him out of the union with shouts of
“scab.”
Footbrawl
It’s “in and out and up and down” in
V.F.L. football this winter. Shock after
shock has been administered to clubs
proud of their history. Collingwood
suffered the worst shock of the season
when Melbourne scored 154 points to
’Wood’s 60. As a result, Melbourne is
at the top of the list again, while
’Wood is last of “the four.” In respect
of games won and lost, four teams are
level; on percentages Melbourne is first,
St. Kilda second, Richmond third and
Collingwood fourth.
’Wood was without Todd and a couple
of others who are with the State team in
the West, but then Melbourne couldn’t
put its strongest team in the field. The
Melburnians agreeably astonished their
most ardent barrackers, and ’Wood never
had the ghost of a chance. It was 22-22
to 8-12.
Richmond was downed also ; and by
Fitzroy: 17-13 to 10-13. A wonderful
win for ’Roy. Saints had a more diffi-
cult time with Carlton, but made it 14-14
to 9-16.
For Haw-Hawthorn supporters, their
club’s splendid form of a few weeks ago
is now only a bitter-sweet memory.
Essendon downed Haw-Hawthorn 19-11
to 16-19; and North put poor old Foot-
scray through: 15-12 to 11-10. ’Scray
has now played 10 matches and lost the
lot. Geelong found South easy—l 6-15
to 7-14 (111 points to 56).
$ *i*
As a rule, the V.F.L. likes to
keep its best footballers at home
for the more profitable club matches;
but it sent a strong combination
to Perth to play the Westralians
—the South Australians are to be en-
countered on the return journey. The
Victorians beat Westralia by 20 points
—ll-9 to 7-13. Unusually low scoring,
but the crowd saw honest and keenly-
contested football for its money.
* -V * * *
“T.”: Of the 29 young men chosen
to play Union Rugby for Australia abroad,
four are Victorians, 17 Cornstalks and
eight Queenslanders. Had Bridle been
available, there would have been five
Victorians and probably seven Queens-
landers. Yet Queensland won four of
the five inter-State matches played this
year and N.S.W. beat it only once. No
wonder Queenslanders are dissatisfied.
For my part —and I have never even been
in Queensland—l can’t understand why
Walker wasn’t picked as a full-back. He
is faster than either Rankin or Clifford,
neither of whom is very quick off the
mark, and he looks like becoming another
Frauenfelder. N.S.W., with two selectors
out of four, and a chairman with a cast-
ing vote, had too much to do with the
choosing of the team, and the Sydney
press, as always, had too much to say.
Dr. Sheahan, who was one of the
Waratahs, expressed a widespread view
when he said that the tourists will miss
Schulte, the rugged little Queensland half.
The pair chosen, Gibbons and Ramalli,
are smart, but very light. For the rest,
the selectors evidently decided that youth
must be served —average age is 231 years.
There is no outside centre, though
Rankin, picked with Clifford as a full-
back, and Carpenter, one of the wingers;
have had experience in that position.
The other wingers are Nicholson, Kelaher
and Porter; perhaps the solidest section
of the team. Lewis, Ide, Smith and Car-
rick are named as centres. Carrick (19)
is the baby, but a big and strong baby—
he’s a six-footer going 12st. 21b. The
five-eighths, Richards and Collins, should
have speed and cleverness enough.
The forwards look pretty good. Wilson,
the captain, a front-row man, led Aus-
tralia in the three matches against Maori-
land last year. In England his pack will
come variously from Oxenham and


V///////A///"////.
//
I
/
%
/
n
*8
M
&
m
/
a./
2
//4
1
x
SPECIALLY REFINED FOR.
0
W 391
Waratah fires faster . . . has speedier get-away . . .
resulting in reduced engine wear , . . it’s the high efficiency
cold weather motor spih't.
The most gruelling test of petrol is when your car or truck
is running under terrific loads at sustained speeds. For that
extra power use the BEST . . . Waratah.
WaRATAH gives you the utmost mileage per gallon. It*
takes you further at greater speed . . . Demand it!
WHETHER you drive a car or control fleets of commercial
vehicles, for efficiency and economy of operation it is essential
no use Waratah . . . Waratah definitely saves running costs.
NEPTUNE OIL COMPANY PIT LT?
[INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.] ALL STATES
Oxlade, McDonald, McLean, Monti,
Malone, Bissett and Barr, Windon, Stone,
Turnbull, Ramsay and Pearson, and, of
course, Hodgson.
“Mak”: Three of the four Victorians
selected for the Blighty trip learned their
Rugby in Melbourne after having played
the Australian game until they left
school. Stan Bissett and Andy Barr,
forwards in the Power House Club,
formed by boys of Lord Somers’s camp,
picked up the finer points from “Pop”
Bremner, Marie Bremner’s father, who
booted Rugby balls round most of
Dunedin’s earlier grounds. Another
Maorilander, F. W. Russell, taught
Pearson—a divinity student, by the way
—his job in the scrum while coaching
Melbourne University teams. “Sandy”
Russell was a Manawatu forward in
1923-24, and only lack of beef kept him
out of the All-Black forwards who
paved the way for Maoriland’s unbeaten
United Kingdom tour of 1924-25. Last
year Russell was Victorian representative
on the Australian selection committee.
Max Carpenter, the other Victorian
packing for July, learned the game in
Sydney and developed it in Westralia.
Barr and Bissett are accountants, N Car-
penter a wholesale butcher.
* * * *
Gordon heads Sydney’s Rugby Union
premiership list for the first time since
it entered the competition, though actu-
ally it shares the position with Northern
Suburbs. Gordon beat North 7-3 (a
try and a field goal to a penalty goal)
after a scrappy forward game. Gibbons
didn't turn out for North an,d Carrick
wasn’t in the Gordon line-up. A number
of others chosen for the English trip
were missing, and all should be excused.
Drummoyne and Randwick are one point
below the leaders. Randwick accounted
for Manly 16-12 (four tries to two).
Porter, one of the tourists, went off
limping before “lemons” ; another, Win-
don, notched two of ’Wick’s tries. Drum-
moyne found University troublesome, but
a couple of forwards’ tries late in the
piece gave the Reds the lead—l B-15 ; four
tries to three.
East, leading early in the season, is
still slipping. St. George, with Clifford
shining, put the lads from the East
through 14-9 (two tries all) and now
dead-heats for last with ’Varsity. West
alone had an easy game ; it ran up eight
tries to Parramatta’s three.
# * * ±
“Bumpkin”: The 19 members of the
Jewish Soccer team visiting Australia
were given a civic reception by Lud
Mayor Coles in Melbourne, and speakers
brought out the old bromide about sport
being the cement of international re-
lationships. Irt this case it was suggested
that a Soccer season would help to re-
move the prejudice against the Jewish
people. The team comes from Tel-Aviv,
15 years ago a medieval town of 1500
people, and now a city of 150,000, with
gas, electric light, cinemas and other
concomitants of civilisation. Although
Jews were responsible for this achieve-
ment it has not removed a single one of
the prejudices of the Arabs against them ;
in fact, if report be true, it has served to
intensify them out of all proportion.
The Palestinians gave Melbourne a
taste of their quality by beating Victoria
7-1. At the beginning the home backs
held the visiting vanguard, but once the
quintet from the Oft-Promised Land
got into their stride they stunned the
opposition with science. The clever band
is going to take a power of stopping in
the big matches ahead.
*■ * * *
Soccer selectors experimented but little
in choosing the N.S.W. eleven to face
Palestine at the S.C.G. next Saturday.
The team is stronger in defence than
attack, and veteran halves Coolahan,
Parkes and Osborne should offer solid
resistance to the opposition’s flying five.
Quill, of Wallsend, will lead the sorties
into Palestinian territory, his display on
Saturday against George Smith, his rival
for the position, clinching his claims.
The only surprise was Lonergan, the
speedy Cessnock forward, whose un-
orthodox attacking play has distinct pos-
sibilities. Jimmy McNabb, the well-tried
Weston man, is goalie.
* * * *
The bug of belligerency that has been
sinking its proboscis into other codes of
late turned its attention at the week-end
to Soccer. In the N.S.W. State League
game between Metters and St. George the
shrill insistence of the whistle—a heavy
crop of penalties went against the stove-
makers for infringements and rough play
—frayed tempers all round, and the boot
gave way to the fist, to the joyful shrieks
of the partisans, a few of whom joined in.
Despite the lashings it wasn’t a bad
game. Metters, with Crowhurst, Monagle
and Hughes combining well, kept up the
pressure, though the opposition backs’
defence improved as the game progressed.
It was 4-3 in Metters’ favor at full-time.
The swiftly improving Weston side
battled its way into second place in the
comp, by notching its tenth successive
win, this time over Cessnock, 4-2.
Leichhardt surprised by soundly beating
Wallsend 5-0. Goodyear stays at the
top o’ the table with a 2-1' victory over
Adamstown ; Granville-Ryde drew with
Woonona-Bulli 3 all and Newcastle
landed the only goal of the match against
Granville.
* * * *
Canterbury-Bankstown, by lacing Bal-
main 18-3, now divides with the team it
vanquished and St. George joint leader-
ship of the Sydney Rugby League clubs.
The game was far from being a good
exhibition ; there was too much specu-
lative passing to team mates downfield.
In the first half ’Main maintained a
strong offensive, with the try line madden-
ingly close yet elusive, but with the loss
of two forwards—Griffiths with a dislo-
cated shoulder and, immediately after
the interval, Watt with marching orders
for tripping—-the team closed up like a
pocket-knife. Canterbury-Bankstown,
sniffing victory, hopped in and knocked
large holes in the depleted defence.
St. George kept its good form to defeat
an improved Newtown 26-24; West
tossed the in-and-out South 19-8 and
East beat North —bereft of rep. halves
Thompson and Harrison—22-18.
Miscellaneous
Bradman keeps himself fit at Adelaide
in the winter by playing golf and squash
racquets. He was coached in squash
racquets by Watson, of Melbourne, and he
lately gave Turnbull a hard go in a
match. Turnbull won 3-2, but said after-
wards that the hour’s game had been
harder work than any tennis champion-
ship.
«j> H*
“Fourteen Ciubs”: “Babe” Didrikson
has had a busy time in Sydney lecturing
and demonstrating shots at Anthony
Horderns’, giving exhibitions and playing
in foursomes —rarely with success—the
other parties concerned being men. After
her second defeat she mentioned that the
gallery had been “critical.” Knowing a
little of golfers, I don’t wonder at the
use of the adjective. The gallery was
charged five bob a time, members and
all, and there is a type of golfer who,
stung for five bob, would be “critical”
of Cotton, Sarazen and Bobby Jones if
they were three persons in one, like Mrs.
Malaprop’s Cerberus.
“Nagheer”: It happened to a Mur-
willumbah (N.S.W.) golfer with a repu-
tation for sobriety. Swinging at a ball, he
saw two balls leave the club in full flight
down the fairway. A ball sliced from
a neighboring fairway had hit the face
of his club at the very instant of its con-
tact with the one aimed at.
* * * s(s
“Sturt”: S.A.’s golf championship,
open to residents only and so styled
“close,” but with no distinction of class,
went to the amateur Rymill—for the first
time, though Rymill has won the amateur
title on several occasions. He had a
real day out, and with 71 and 72 finished
three strokes ahead of veteran Rufus
Stewart, holder for the last three years,
and nine strokes ahead of Ackland-
Horman.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: A remarkable career
in amateur athletics was that of Frank
Baynes. Nicknamed “Tiger” for his
speed and aggressiveness, he played
Rugby for Queensland in every inter-
colonial and international match during
more than 20 years. In 1887 he beat
Arthur Scott, hitherto undefeated ama-
teur middleweight champion boxer of
Queensland. He rowed for Queensland
in intercolonial races, won a handicap
sculls at a Brisbane regatta when he was
60, and the same day was one of the
winning crew in a four-oar race for
veterans. Four years later he coached
his nephew, Arthur, into the amateur
sculling championship of Australia.
Baynes is 83, and one of the few people
who have lived continuously in Brisbane
since pre-Separation days.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Recent discussion in
the “Billiard Player” seems to have
cleared up the oft-disputed origin of
snooker and its name. In 1876 a sub-
altern of the Devons, then stationed at
Jubbulpore, India, during the rains, hit
on the idea of adding a colored ball to
vary the eternal monotony of black pool.
The notion caught on, others were added,
and a set of rules formulated. During
a dinner to a gunner detachment one of
them told the Devon lad that first-year
Woolwich cadets were known as
Snookers, a corruption of the original
Neuxers. Later on the gunner muffed
a simple pot, his host chaffed him about
being a “regular snooker” at the new
game, as yet not named, and a hilarious
party christened it accordingly. Ten years
afterwards John Roberts introduced it to
England after getting the rules from its
originator now General Sir Neville
Chamberlain, still living in England at
84, and still keen on a game of snooker.


sdf
»!uiMnn--i
Twice. Daily -2 'iS~&
WWW&M.M
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-8
“HIGHLIGHTS FROM HOLLYWOOD"
featuring: ANNA MAY WONG in person
anti New Company of Oversea
Variety Stars.
Big; New Company Oversea Stars in
“BROADWAY HOT SHOTS”
Maturing SENATOR MURPHY, FOUR
FRANKS, and 10 other acts.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
Marjorie Lawrence in
Melbourne.
A recent innovation, two yellow spot-
lights focused on the centre of Mel-
bourne Town Hall platform, completely
denatured the appearance of Marjorie
Lawrence.
Sprinting through the enormous cur-
tain and coasting the piano, the girlish
figure took its place in the centre of this
gleaming bull’s-eye, and immediately-
changed from something warm and liv-
ing into something resembling the plaster
models installed in the windows of the
Myer Emporium.
One spotlight would have shown the
variety in the singer’s vivacious counten-
ance, but the two successfully, negatived
one another, removed all* tone from the
smiling visage and left nothing but the
lips, the eyes and eyebrows.
A further disconcerting feature was
that the tawny beam caught Miss Law-
rence fair in one of her optics, which
directed a baleful gleam back at the
present critic, after the fashion of the
ruby lights carried on pushbikes. If the
little lady had been less of a distinguished
vocalist this quaint method bf display-
ing her would have ruined the evening’s
entertainment. As it was, it seriously
stood in the way of appreciation of her
magnificent rendering of Brunnhilde’s last
ringing aria from the “Gotterdam-
merung,” which was the highlight of the
evening and brought the house down.
Miss Lawrence wisely lowered the cur-
tain on her recital with this item instead
of singing the mediocre ditty which was
given on the programme. The latter
appeared earlier as an encore, amongst
other slight material which she would
be well advised to exclude altogether
from her repertoire. She is not one-half
as good at that sort of thing as Tibbett,
and what is tolerated at the summit of
her career in a Melba is not so easy to
put up with from a young artist on the
threshold.
What she is good at, and very good
at, is grand opera. She started off with
“Divinites du Styx,” from Gluck’s
“Alceste,” and concluded with the afore-
said Wagnerian number. She gave it
the requisite agony, and flung herself at
the topnotes with a fine abandon.
She was also good in Schubert. There
was tenderness in her singing of “The
Lindenbaum,” and in the famous “Erl
King” she impersonated two of the char-
acters very adroitly by using her delicate
soprano for the boy and shifting to con-
tralto for the father. She was dignified
and solemn in “The Procession” of Cesar
Franck, and gay and lightsome in an
old French song about marital infelicity.
In fact, she has much of the versatility
of a seasoned singer, but her talents tend
more to the dramatic than the lyrical.
Some of the audience had already been
warmed up by her country appearances,
and half the population of Dean’s Marsh,
her birthplace, and Winchelsea, where
she spent her girlhood, seemed to be in
the building. By the end of the evening
she had added the metropolis to her con-
quests with her jolliness and freshness.
She probably had just as much difficulty
in acquiring her skill as a vocalist as any
other singer, but she didn’t convey the
impression that life was a burden and
singing a mournful occupation.
Her accompanist, Felix Wolfes, who
has fostered her talent for the past five
years since her first American appear-
ance, deserved at least half a dozen horse-
shoes. His playing was as sensitive as
her singing. Baritone Alfredo Luizzi,
winner of the same “Sun” aria competi-
tion which started off Miss Lawrence,
intoned some sea songs of a smoke-social
character, but also sang an aria from
Handel which showed off his fine voice
much better.
Marjorie Lawrence repeated her initial
success on Saturday. Her full, rich
tones came out beautifully in an aria
from the “Valkyrie.” She is more at home
'vvith Wagner than Verdi, however, and
the “Vieni d’ T’affretta” from “Mac-
beth” sounded strident by comparison.
Lieder is not her medium, but, for some
reason or other, next to her Wagner she
j s most at home in the bright tone and
quickly-moving melodies of Schubert.
A packed house gave baritone Alfredo
L u j zz [ an ovation for the “Toreador”
song, and demanded and got a trio ol
encores.
A Bit of a Frost.
It was a bit of a frost at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, on Saturday.
The boards of that resplendent play-
house had been frozen to the depth of
a few inches by the aid of modern
science, and on this improvised arena,
which measured scarcely 30ft. by 40f ~
a score or more of lovely chorines and
equally lovely ballerinas, stalwart male
dancers, a pantomime horse, clowns ana
acrobats cavorted with a grace, an aban-
don and a freedom from ordinary pedes-
trian limitations which made some o'
the marvels of the Russian ballet look m
retrospect like stationary tableaux.
It is something for a Russian to jump
a few yards, leap a few feet in the air
and slap his majestic thighs together, but
there is a flavor of mundane impotence
about the gesture. The knife-edges on
which the performers cavorted in Swit-
zerland,” J. C. Williamson’s latest gut
to the nation, enabled them to transcend
such limitations.
They leapt chairs and tables, hurled
themselves through hoops and made geo-
metrical patterns round all sorts of ob-
structions with a hitchless ease which
left the population staggered.
Every now and then a six-foot Adonis
would whizz downstage and, checking
himself with a suddenness that made the
audience dizzy, send a shower of frozen
water over the heads of the orchestra ;
then, as if he had been pulled by strings,
he would glide into the wings, and the
orchestra would wipe its trembling
whiskers.
The culminating point of the proceed-
ings was Phil Taylor, who had stilts on
his feet and skates on the stilts, which
were stated to be the tallest stilts any
skater has skated on. His skill was un-
canny, but not more remarkable than
the grace of Elsie Heathcote and Diana
Grafton or the swift manoeuvres of the
ballet girls.
Also on the bill was Eddie Marcel, a
comedian with the Oxford manner, who
brightly introduced things, and whose
inability to remain in an upright posture
disappeared as the evening drew to a
conclusion. Even the prop, men who
buzzed on from time to time seemed to
be in their natural element, and if one
of the Tait family had come on to say
a few grateful words at the final curtain
nobody would have been surprised to
see him perform a figure eight without
falling on the chief subject-matter of the
comedian’s humor.
Something that went wrong with the
lighting in the Danse Macabre of the
extraordinary Ronald Priestley was the
only blemish on an otherwise meritori-
ous production, but the management was
too lavish. The strangeness of the
medium tended to exhaust the public’s
stock of appreciation, despite a middle
act in which some vaudevillians did their
stuff on terra firma. If the show had
ended at 10.30 instead of after eleven
the audience would have been more con-
tinuously on the boil than any audience
at His Majesty’s has been for a long
time.
Richard Crooks in Sydney.
When on Saturday night at the Town
Hall the genial smile topping the Ameri •
can tenor’s hefty frame hove into view
as he strode pianowards up the ramp,
the packed house acclaimed him affec-
tionately and vociferously, then sat back,
confident that the Crooks larynx would
deliver the goods.
Effortless, and used with judgment and
exquisite 1 taste, his voice possesses the
quality of investing even the most com-
monplace ballad with beauty. Whether
he is, with eyes half-closed, delivering a
barely audible whisper in the middle
register, or, brows drawn together, trum-
peting a martial challenge up in the vocal
stratosphere, he is in perfect command.
And what he doesn’t know about the art
of spellbinding a concert-platform audi-
ence could be printed in large type on
the back of a stamp.
He opened with a Handel group.
“Where’er You Walk,” from “Semele,”
was delivered in classical legato; the
“Alma Mia,” from “Floridante,” was a
perfect vehicle for a finely-controlled
half-voice, and in “Sound an Alarm,”
from “Judas Maccabaeus,” the declama-
tory passages were attacked with gusto.
Few singers essay lieder with impunity ;
Crooks could do it on his head. In
four songs from Schubert’s cycle, “Die
Schone Miillerin,” the tenor ranged
joyously over the musical gamut. After
smoke-oh he got into the “heavies. '
Federico’s lament from Cilea’s “L’Ar-
lesiana” fully tested his dramatic
powers, and the passionate “Amor te
Vieta,” from Giordano’s “Fedora,” in
which the singer conjured up from some
hidden depth a glorious robustness,
would have had the audience gripping its
chair-sides had there been any to grip.
Thence he went through to the
lighter fare and the encores, in which his
generosity almost equalled the demands
of his audience —and surely Sydney con-
certgoers hold the world’s record for
insatiability!
Making his Sydney bow as associate
artist was Karoly Szenassy, violinist. The
technical difficulties with which Ernst’s
Concerto bristles melted under the facile
bowing of this promising young Hun-
garian, who was abetted in this and other
works by Jean Starling at the piano.
Frederick Schauwecker was a highly effi-
cient and unobtrusive accompanist to
Richard Crooks.
History Is Made.
Let it be put on record here and now
that history was made in Sydney last
week. The Town Hall cat sat right
through a show!
Hitherto the sleek black fummy that
walks alone down the long lone passages
of the Town Hall has maintained a stolid
—not to say frozen —indifference to the
most famous of concert celebrities. When
Schnabel played puss merely coughed and
washed himself; when Lehmann sang
he slept in the foyer ; when the Harmon-
ists harmonised he went outside and sat
on the steps; and even when Tibbett
shook the Town Hall to its foundations
Tom’s only reaction was a hurried visit
to the roof to see if the baritone’s de-
claiming of “Edward” had left any tiles
on the roof.
Last week Tom arrived in good time
and sat right in the middle of the aisle
to survey, with evident interest and
pleasure/ Gordon V. Currie’s “Star
Parade”—a collection of warblers and
guitar strummers. When the Hawaiian
Band played Tom twitched his whiskers
with remarkable enthusiasm. He wasn’t
so sure about the Harmoniques (perhaps
they recalled the Comedy Harmonists),
but when Betty Bryant warbled he
moved a bit closer, and when baritone
AT SYDNEY ROYAL
Jim Gerald, doing time in “Around the
Clock”; subsequently escapes to become
the father of a large family .
Melton Moore and more gallery girls'
hearts; and Katrin Rosselle, even more
effective on the male species (Frith evi-
dently excepted).
Maxine, and Bobby; the dogs as wide-
awake as the Town Hall cat (elsewhere
commented on).
Frank Bindley, as Mr. Sweet acre. gives the
world his simple formula for growing prize
dahlias,
Violet Carlson, Girl Guide, but you should
[?] her do a rhumba.
Don Nicol, “With Gun and Camera Down
the Looloo Poopoo.”


/
9
/
With Sextant in hand an
officer sights the sun, to
check a Bay Lineds position.
v>m
mm
y . -■
WHATEVER the Latitude or
Longitude, “All’s Well” when
you travel on a Bay Liner. Every
facility of a modern liner is yours to
enjoy, because travel in a ONE-CLASS
Bay Liner is amazingly economical —
it gives you luxury of leisure in roomy,
airy, comfortable ships.
Every passenger on a Bay Liner
has the run of the whole ship and all
that could be desired in comfort,
cuisine and entertainment.
Fascinating excursions ashore at
Ceylon, Egypt and Malta make the
trip a memorable one.
-and (2M’J -mkM aboard a “One Class”
BAY LINER
TO ENGLAND IN COMFORT WITH ECONOMY
ABERDEEN & COMMONWEALTH LINE
NEXT SAILINGS TO ENGLAND VIA SUEZ.
FROM
BRISBANE..
SYDNEY . . .
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE .
FREMANTLE
LARGS BAY.
July 19
July 25
July 31
Aug. 2
Aug. 7
MORETON BAY.
Aug. 16
Aug. 22
Aug. 26
Aug. 30
Sept. 4
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
DALGETY and CO. OR ABERDEEN &
xt t rnndson sane the feline critic
Newton Goodson /^ e nio V ment
interval he strolled out into the
, At ” H warmed himself against a
adfator but he was back in his seat in
raaiaiu , liehts went out,
the aisle as soon as the
wir?that there wasT bit too much croon
: n places Also he approved of the
whife slacks and shirts, the white dresses,
the red sashes and red flowers, the guitars
angfng from vest-pocket models to the
massive weapon about two fathoms taller
and one wider than the lass supporting it.
When, however, the last act came on,
with a bevy of feminine beauty parading
back and forth across the stage with
£5OOO worth of animal furs on their lis-
some forms, the discerning creature tip-
toed hurriedly out, wearing an expres-
sion like the bull in the Bovril ads.
((1 , „
Jesse James.
Tyrone Power, Henry Fonda, Nancy Kelly.
Being a bit vague as to what particular
niche in history was occupied by Mr.
James, we instituted a few inquiries
around The Bulletin office. The “Wild
Cat” editor didn’t know, but said Mr.
James hadn’t appeared in the bankruptcy
court during the past ten years. Nobody
else being any more helpful, ads.
vvere combed. They reported that “Jesse
James was what his lawless era made
him—the most colorful bandit who ever
lived.” That at least created a spark of
interest, so we went along to Sydney
Regent to really find out about Mr.
James.
According to the film, James was a
somewhat milder edition of Ned Kelly,
When the railway was being stretched
across America there apparently wasn’t
much prevailing in the way of law and
order, and when railroad men pinched
their land and killed their mother James
and his brother took to banditry and
plaguing the railways for all they were
worth.
A happy career of looting was inter-
rupted when, at the behest of a wench
he had just married, and on the railroad
people’s word that he’d get only a light
sentence, James gave himself up to serve
a stretch in clink. When, however, the
railway crowd went back on their word,
and it seemed likely that he would be
hanged, James immediately broke gaol
and returned to his old habits with
greater enthusiasm than ever. Then his
wife became fed up with bolting for
cover every time anything moved, so she
and their youngster lit out. leavm? James
and his gang to rise to fresh heights ot
banditry and, eventually, to bring about
their own downfall.
character of James never
really comes to life in the film is the
fault of Mr. Power. It becomes mcreas-
ingly difficult to understand why this
young man appears in so many mam
roles. He has figured conspicuously in
several films, and m none has he shown
any cause or reason why he should figure
conspicuously in another. He appears
more favorably here than in Previous
offerings because he s backed up by a
crowd of very capable supporting players
and because he has a colorful part that
moves pretty well of its own accord,
Fonda, as James s brother, is a muci
more natural actor, and should obvi-
ously have been in Power s shoes.
Throughout the film he continually draws
interest from the central character, not
deliberately, but simply by virtue of his
better acting. Miss Kelly, as the wench,
j s a goo d partner for Power, in that her
histrionic ability is slightly less than his.
An excellent supporting cast includes
Brian Donlevy, John Carradine, Henry
Hull and Randolph Scott, and emphasises
the shortcomings of the main players,
Lacking the development and degen-
eration of a main character, the film
tends to wander a bit, particularly to-
war<js the finish, where Power is ex-
pected to do much more than he is cap-
able of doing. But it’s a fairly brisk piece
generally, with spots of ridin’ and shoot-
in’ to liven things up occasionally. Also
jt’s in technicolor, which is now nearing
that stage where it is possible for a spec-
tator to be lulled into such a dreamy,
pleasant frame of mind that he can sit
back and browse over the scenery with-
out being at all conscious of what’s
going on.
The Hound ot the Basker-
villes.”
' Bas,l Ralhbom.
As seen at Sydney Plaza, this further
shot at turning Mr. Sherlock Holmes into
a Great Film Star passes muster as quite
a fair general entertainer. The setting,
on the moors, is, if anything, even more
squelchy and ominous than Conan Doyle
managed to represent it; the story, with
its romantic historical background, gives
the filmsmiths more to work on than the
usual shallow mystery opus provides ; and
acting all round is sound enough for the
purpose, with some particularly spirited
acting on the part of the hound.
Rathbone’s Sherlock is streets ahead of
the Clive Brook version, as it couldn’t
very well help being with Basil bearing
such a striking personal resemblance to
the great Baker-street sleuth. Even so,
it’s a shade elementary.
Apart from the serious handicap of
being more like Mr. Baldwin than Mr.
Holmes in personal appearance, Brook
made the part ponderous by indulging in
bouts of visibly heavy thinking. Rath-
bone goes to the other extreme. The
somewhat sinister expression which he
has given to other parts, and which would
certainly not have been amiss here, has
been so smoothed out in make-up that if
it wasn’t for the pipe and the cap we
wouldn’t have recognised Mr. Holmes at
all. The idea seems to be to suggest how
easy it all was to Mr. Holmes, but the
effect is to make the famous sleuth rather
unimpressive as a Film Star.
Also both Mr. Holmes and Mr. Doyle
are exposed as not above deliberately
misleading an audience with false clues.
There are one or two examples of this
that would surely get their perpetrators
blackballed from any respectable Crime
Club.
“They Drive by Night”
Englishmen, mostly unknown.
The first half-hour or so of this
English-made support to the very limp
Ritz Brothers’ offering at Sydney Mayfair
shows off all the advantages the film has
over the writer. A good short-story-
teller could have made a clinking job of
the subject, but he couldn’t have hoped
so convincingly to reproduce the wealth
of detail the film has.
Casting is excellent. A young chap
finishes an 18-month gaol sentence on the
morning a man is hanged for the murder
of a girl. He calls in at a little coffee-
stall he used to frequent, mentions he’s
going to visit a girl he knows, and goes
to her room to find her strangled.
He runs. Then, getting always more
desperate, he realises he has to keep
running.
He goes north from London, picking
up lifts on the night transport trucks,
having to stop for precious minutes at
the little refreshment rooms the drivers
call at, with the police never very far
behind him.
There must be a dozen or more people
—truck-drivers, policemen, girls who
dance for sixpence-a-time in cheap dance-
halls, people in coffee shops, all of them
surprisingly true to type. The thing
looks as if it might have been filmed in
the places it pictures.
His desperation growing, he gets back
to London in the same way. Hungry
and hunted, he’s going to give in when
he discovers who really was the murderer.
That part of the story is unlikely, but it’s
done so well as to make it appear
credible.
There are bits and pieces of detail and
description thrown in everywhere, but
they’re done quickly and distinctly so
that they’re never allowed to hinder the
movement of the story. They merely
have the effect of making it real.
The Ritz Bros.
Having been firmly of the conviction
that the really good screen comedian —
Chaplin, Mischa Auer, Roland Young,
Laurel (of the L. and Hardy firm) —is a
fairly rare bird, and most unlikely to be
discovered disporting himself in com-
pany with others of the same species,
present (occasional) film-taster has sedu-
lously avoided seeking him in alleged
coveys labelled Ritzes or Marxes or any-
thing like it. But, like the ’flu, they
couldn’t be dodged for ever. He’s seen
the Ritzes —and he’s more than ever
determined to be careful in the future.
Of course, his luck may have been
out, but the conclusion is that not even
the confirmed Ritz addict could be satis-
fied with their caperings in “The Gorilla.”
As members of a private detective
agency they investigate the case of a
gorilla murderer, dodging in and out of
secret passages and cellars, taking it in
turns to be knocked unconscious every
few minutes, catching their fingers in
mouse-traps, doing all the things that
fallabout humorists have been doing for
generations, and doing them not one
whit better.
There’s even the scene in which a dress
model becomes hitched to the coat-tails
of one of the Ritzes and follows him
about the room.
They get their biggest laughs when
two of them suddenly disappear!


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
&
ua
Oif : !
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff, livery possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Spring-wood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney,
’Phone: 84771.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Caused by Tired Kidneys
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can
be relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are one of Nature’s chief ways
of taking acids and wastes out of the blood.
A healthy person should pass about 3 pints a
day and so get rid of more than 3 pounds of
waste matter.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don't work well, this poisonous waste stays in
the body. It may start nagging backaches,
leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting up
nights, lumbago, swollen feet and ankles,
puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic pains and
dizziness. Don’t let it lay you up.
Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully the
world over by millions of people. They give
quick relief and will help to flush out the 1»
miles of kidney tubes. So be sure you get
VOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Richard Crooks, his voice as beautiful
as the dream we had of it, came back
to Sydney Town Hall last Saturday. A
tenor singing and the music of Chopin
and Debussy are still healing balms in a
world that Kultur has made depressing
for democracy. Democracy and the
plutes as well turned up to hear Richard,
who sang everything from the magni-
ficence of Handel to the “Neapolitan
Love Song.” He must have enjoyed him-
self, for the concert was very, very late
coming out. Truman thundering or
whispering through the organ; the
violinist with the name as melodic as his
strings, Karoly Szenassy; Sydney’s old
friend from Chicago, pianist Frederick
Schauwecker, and Jean Starling playing
with the violinist were all in the fun.
Claude Kingston and Harald Bowden
escorted the Admiralty House group to
its chairs. The spot not marked X but
with pink roses was where Lady Gowrie
seated her deep-blue frock and gleam-
ing gold and blue coat. The Alexander
Gordon lady, I vie Price, Mrs. Bracegirdle,
the A.B.C. Moses couple and Clifford
Huntsman were in this party. Black
Chantilly and ermine enwrapped the
singer’s wife, who later at their flat at
52 Macleay-street with her husband
entertained a group of old friends. Mrs.
E. J. Tait’s coat was sable, and with her
were E.J. himself and daughter Mrs.
Byron Wrigley. Ruby Adams’s pearl-
and-diamond earrings were long; the
Alexander Gordons were there.
Ideals refusing to be crushed, the In-
ternational Ball drew several hundreds
of dancers. The ball is the outward
expression of inward faith of the League
of Nations Union in Sydney, and the
funds go to the great cause. This year’s
ball was all vice-regal, dignity and
candles. Very effective these looked in
their branched and straight silver candle-
sticks on the official table. But the Girl
in the Flat Opposite murmured against
them, saying they reminded her of a
wake. However, in contradistinction to
this depressed feeling over the League,
there was the rainbow of hope.
This was a ballet of graceful girls in
the blues, greens, reds, mauves and golds
of the rainbow. Their trailing and
spreading frocks of glittering transparent
tissue leaped into iridescent life as the
spotlight followed their progress down
the ballroom. The girls moved in single
file down the steps to the dance floor,
linked with garlands of many colors.
Their high headdresses, too, combined
these tones. Two small girls, one at each
end of the line, represented the gold at
the end of the rainbow, and presented
Lady Gowrie with posies of gold roses.
Lord and Lady Gowrie and Lord Wake-
hurst were all present. Lady Cowrie’s
frock was silver lame on which dark blue
velvet shoulder straps were in nice con-
trast.
All the hosts had been asked to make
red the dominant note of their table
decorations, and on the official table red
roses in silver bowls were the chosen
flower, but on most others it was poin-
settia. There was a lot of ermine about,
and a cape of it was worn by Chief Jus-
tice Jordan’s lady (who was the presi-
dent) with her delphinium-blue moires.
The Francis Anderson lady’s black nets
were encrusted with beads, and Francis
himself looked happy, and was bright
with decorations. That gentle knight
Robert Garran was there, and with him
his sister, Miss Garran. Jeanie Ranken
directed arrangements, her flowered black
marquisette knutty with shoulder scarves
and her decoration. All the Consuls and
their wives were in this group.
Immediately opposite, across the room,
was the enormous party brought by the
International Society. Here Jocelyn
Targett’s rose taffetas, Mrs. Toby
Browne’s mulberry and silver (woollen
weave frock) and the Snowden lady’s
white and silver were admired ; so were
Florence Taylor’s petal-pink satins and
ostrich feather cape. Noreen Dangar, in
mistlike greys, caught the gaze, and Betty
Collins, the night’s only deb., wore a
lyric of snowy tulle and Chantilly.
There is still hope for the world’s
return to sweetness and sanity while
there are men to play the flute with
the lyric sweetness and gaiety of “Bill”
Kirkbride-Smith. His playing last Wed-
nesday night of the “Orpheus” melody
might have charmed the ear of Sappho.
No doubt that it captured his Conser-
vatorium audience, which listened in-
tently to the Bach . Siciliano and the
Leclair Gigue. Later, with an orchestra
conducted by Florent Hoogstoel, the
flautist played the Mozart Concerto in
D Major, and received an ovation. The
great bowl of green and silver lacquered
leaves was a nice stage property, and
went well with Heather Kinnaird’s
Parma violet chiffons and with Lorraine
Halse Rogers’s very bouffant white chif-
fons. Lorraine is a pianist with a crystal-
clear tone and a sylphlike presence.
There was nothing unlucky about last
Friday for Mrs. S. G. Pearce, of New-
castle. On that day, at Killara, she won
the Country Women’s golf champion-
ship. The final was a spirited match
between her and Mrs. T. G. Murray, of
Armidale. Mrs. Pearce holds the
championship of central-northern dis-
tricts, and is the champion of the New-
castle Golf Club. Photo, from Peter
Pan.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite says
that as she does not wear wool next the
skin she has no vested interest in the
sheep industry. But, of course, when
the Corriedales, the merinos, the Border-
Leicesters, the Polwarths and the other
fleecy-lined brethren came to town, like
everybody else she slid out to the Show-
ground. It took five pavilions to house
the gentry of the pen this year, and not
even a cutting westerly could keep the
sheep-minded from going out to salute
these goldilocks of the long paddocks.
Congratulations to the president of the
association, E. I. Body. There was a
record attendance, starting from the first
day, when the interested included David
Kater, a sheep judge of 17 months. Quite
a bunch of Katers were seen around the
pavilions, and quite a bunch of ribbons
went to Egelabra, the Norman Kater place
at Warren. Mrs. Colin Beatty, of Scone,
smiled above silver fox furs at the suc-
cess of her entries in the novice class.
Noreen Dangar, knight Fred McMaster,
his lady, son lan and daughter Thelma
were among the constants. All the
women visitors were “tweedy” and as
near country as possible. From Mel-
bourne came Mrs. Keith Aikman, and
the Alwyn Mudges, of Adelaide, took
farewell of the golden fleece before sail-
ing on to San Francisco in the Monterey.
Talking of fleeces reminds. Was it tactful,
was it really in the best taste, to have
piles of fleeces heaped up in full view
of a terrace of merino pens? It was as
pointed as asking “Which would you
rather be, a mutton chop or a gent.’s
lounge suit?”
Pretty Belinda Street, whose father is
Mr. Justice Kenneth Street, and whose
mother is a leader in all Feminist move-
ments, has just betrothed herself to
Donald Mackay, heir of the W. A. Mac-
kays, of Edgecliff. A square-cut sapphire
is the highlight of the ring. Belinda is
a descendant of that Captain Ogilvie who
was one of Australia’s pioneers. Dad’s
side had something to offer, too.
Belinda’s grandfather was Philip Street,
former Chief Justice and Lieutenant-
Governor of the State.
A sturdy elephant of white glaze, per-
fectly modelled, and bearing a very fine
silk palanquin filled with flowers, stood on
each side of the Trocadero vestibule to
welcome visitors to the Dragon Ball.
This was an effort of the Young Chinese
Relief Party towards an ambulance unit
for China. Bright silk bannerets and ex-
quisitely embroidered scrolls adorned the
entrance to the ballroom, and on each
side of the bandstand was the tiaditiona
lion of China. On Mrs. Oong’s table was
a great Buddha made of small yellow
and brown flowers, and before it scented
joss-sticks were burned. Large red lan-
terns hung between the curtains at the
doorway. Pretty young Chinese girls
sold lucky-number dragon brooches, and
others sold you a number that entitled
you to a gift from the “Choy Bow'
lucky dip. Two men’s neckties and a
wash-cloth were this Letter's haul, and
she gnashed her teeth when others
secured ivory chopsticks and bowls
lined with apple-green to which her heait
had been lost.
There were girl singers who were ac-
companied on the Yit Kum, a stringed
instrument known to China even befoie
the Manchus ; there was a guard of honor
of young girls and boys in the national
robes of China—stiff, rich silks, richer
with embroideries. The girls carried
plumy fans, ivory or tortoiseshell thei i
sticks. Proudest of all was the small
baby boy of four or so in gold cere-
monial robes who led the procession
as it followed the Consul-General and
Mrs. Pao to the official table. Her bro-
cade frock was a sky-after-rain blue.
Mrs. D. Y. Narme and Mrs. Leedow,
who had worked hard for the night’s
success, entertained parties. Ingenious
were the decorations on Mrs. E.
Stephenson’s table. There were forty
or more in this party, and the long table
was decked with green window-boxes
blooming with yellow flowers. The “win-
dow-boxes” were bakers’ tins (borrowed
for the night) with flat green paper pinned
tightly around. They were netted, and
the flowers just thrust through without
benefit of water.
These are busy days for Mrs. W. J.
Hull, president of the University Women
Graduates’ Association. On Thursday,
July 6, the association has its annual
dinner. This will be in the Union
refectory, and there will be 200 or more
women graduates at the tables.
Like her husband, Dr. W. J. Hull, the
subject of this Peter Pan picture is a
graduate of Sydney Uni. She is a 8.A.,
and, in addition to the medical degree,
he has his B.Sc. Mrs. Hull is active in
all University movements, but the
Settlement work makes particular appeal
to her, and she is a vice-president of
its committee.
A room where firelight gleamed on
mellow woodwork, and where the rich
red of poinsettia was an added warmth,
was the scene of the first of the season’s
musicales at Hopewood House. Thelma
Graeme, Newton Goodson and John
Hannell were the music-makers.
The most interesting personality
brought to Sydney last week was Clifford
Huntsman. He’s a tall, lean Englishman
who specialises in the music of Schumann
and Debussy, and who has played in
every capital of the world. He was a
guest at Admiralty House during his Syd-
ney stay, and he leaves this week for
Maoriland carrying letters to vice-regal
circles there. That’s not his claim to
merit, though. He loved music as a child,
and when he was four years old he
played the piano with ease. Then he
went to Oxford, took medicine, and was
actually at Bart.’s when one day he
divorced medicine, and took his old love,
music, back to his heart. He went to
Vienna, and later to Paris, where he
made a particular study of the music of
Debussy. He took each new Debussy
work to the composer’s widow, and she
showed him how Debussy himself had
played it. His first concert in England
was arranged for him by Princess Louise
at Kensington Palace.
For the last five winters Mr. Hunts-
man has left England behind, and has
given recitals in warmer lands, mostly
in India, till this year, when he played
right through the East —India, Japan,
China, Malaya. He has played at the
Embassy in Pekin. That was while Sir
Knatchbull-Hugessen was Ambassador.
The concert was in one of the inner courts
of the Embassy, the moon was like a
silver blossom against the blue black of
the sky, and the audience sat in the court
and in the adjacent gardens.
Singapore throbbing with life by day
and bright with searchlights by night
sounds intriguing and alluring. Quetta
and Aden had never had a public con-
cert till Mr. Huntsman arrived. And
everybody who knows the aridness of
Aden will want to know where the con-
cert was held. It was in the Garrison
Hall, and the local convent lent the
piano. Quetta, the pianist reports, is
being rebuilt in useful rather than orna-
mental style. Bricks, concrete and iron
rods are combined in the buildings,
which it is claimed will sway but not
collapse should Nature try another push-
over.
Five of the hockey girls she had enter-
tained in New York when she motored
in 40 miles to do so were in the party
which greeted Mrs. Richard Crooks
with smiles and orchids last Friday. The
tea-party was in the winter garden of the
Australia, and also present were Mrs.
F. J. Davy, who is going off to England
as manager of still another hockey team.
Two of the departing players were also
admirers of Mrs. Crooks’s deep-green
suit with its trimmings of brown Persian
lamb. A coat of soft Angora in deep
cyclamen covered Mrs. Davy’s powder-
blue frock. Mrs. Crooks was still ex-
cited over her long-distance telephone
talk with daughter Patricia.
From Australia the family goes off to
Africa. Mother and the children (Pat
will join them here) go first in the
Ulysses, and then tenor Richard will
follow in a tramp steamer. The hockey
girls have been strewing flowers on
Mrs. Crooks’s path all the way from
Westralia. And no wonder; in New
York she took the whole team through
Radio City, gave them lunch there, and
gave them a dinner- and a supper-party
in the Rainbow room, with the Ziegfeld
Follies in between. Her hostess act
started at eight o’clock one morning and
ended at two on the following.
Mrs. C. H. Buchanan’s lace shawl,
ivory with age and Limerick in its cob-
web design, was a thing of beauty at the
Troc. last Thursday night. Shawls, fifty,
one hundred and even two hundred years
old, stitchery that had been worked by
patient hands under candlelight and gas-
light, had their design thrown into re-
lief by electrics and spotlights. The lace
and the Paisley were handed the palm by
this Letter—Mrs. Richard Kendall’s,
for instance. Here the soft ivory surface
had tiny flowers scattered on it, and its
border was a typical rich Paisley design.
A shawl in which the blues of the king-
fisher, the greens and golds of the pea-
cock shimmered was worn by Mrs. Carl
Wright, a complement to her old-gold
satin frock. Nor can Mrs. C. G.
Lambie’s richly-bordered ivory heirloom
be forgotten.
Stephanie Edye, who presented posies
to Lady Gowrie, to the wife of Premier
Stevens and to Mayoress Nock, flew a
Russian peasant shawl with her pale-pink
taffeta frock. This was crinolined, and
had flounces edged with lace and tiny
knots of ribbon. A true Valentine finish
was the muff of pink taffeta and lace.
Eugenie McNeil was a real Carmen, her
black shawl embroidered in bright-red
flowers. With her green-and-gold bro-
cades Lady Gowrie wore an iridescent
shawl of cobweb fineness —it might
have come out of Persia. Rich
green and golds were woven in
Mrs. Edye’s frock. Marie Bremner and
Jeanie Ranken were busy spotting
winners in the shawl parade. The hos-
pital’s Dr. Bertie Schlink (Prince Alfred’s
gets the takings) was among the night’s
mighty. The Marcus Clark lady’s black
velvet and pearls did not pass unnoted.


To Let.
CORNISH RIVIERA.
WELL-FURNISHED HOUSE, three Bedrooms,
two Reception Rooms, Kitchen, Pantry, Bath-
room (hot and cold water), every modern con-
venience, five minutes main-line station,
churches, beach. Lovely lanes, sea and river
fishing. Three to six guineas per week short
term; reduction lease. —W. 33 Trevarthian Road,
St. Austell, Cornwall, England.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 556 of 1939.
BETWEEN GLADYS ELIZABETH ETHEL-
ENE WARING Petitioner
And GEORGE HENRY WARING Re-
spondent.
TO GEORGE HENRY WARING formerly of
16 Womerah Avenue Darlinghurst.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
ELIZABETH ETHELENE WARING has
commenced a suit against you in this Honor-
able Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the grounds of adultery and
desertion for three years without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Honorable Court
on or before the Thirteenth day of September
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine,
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time
the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Sixteenth day of June, 1939.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
GEORGE R. VINCENT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 629 of 1939.
BETWEEN DOROTHY SARAH COX Peti-
tioner
And LEONARD CHARLES COX Re-
spondent.
TO LEONARD CHARLES COX late of
Warner’s Bay Tyre Moulder.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
SARAH COX has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and has applied for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of desertion
for three years and upwards without just cause
or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before
the Fourteenth day of September next and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 14th day of June, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
17 Bolton Street, Newcastle; by his Agents:
N. CHERRY WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solici-
tors. Assembly Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1043 of 1938.
BETWEEN ELLEN MARGARET MARY
KENNEDY Petitioner
And LAWRENCE WILLIAM JAMES
KENNEDY Respondent.
TO LAWRENCE WILLIAM JAMES KEN-
NEDY late of Wilcannia in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that a decree for Restitu-
tion of Conjugal Rights dated the Twenty-
eighth day of April One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine has been made against you
in a suit wherein ELLEN MARGARET MARY
KENNEDY was the Petitioner and you the said
LAWRENCE WILLIAM JAMES KENNEDY
were Respondent requiring you within twenty-
one days from service of the said decree to take
back or return home to the Petitioner and
render to her conjugal rights AND FURTHER
requiring you within four days after the expira-
tion of the said twenty-one days to file in the
Registry of this Honorable Court certificate
of compliance with the decree AND FURTHER
TAKE NOTICE that by an order made the
Twenty-second day of June instant it was
ordered that substituted service of the said
decree be made by advertising in a Sydney
weekly newspaper and the “Wilcannia Grazier’’
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the
consequence of your non-compliance with the
decree is that the Petitioner may at once present
a petition asking for a decree against you for
judicial separation or for dissolution of your
marriage AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that the address for communications to the
Petitioner is care of Mrs. M. C. Wagner Louth
Road Cobar AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE
that service is to be taken as complete as from
four days after publication of this notice
from which day the twenty-one days in which
you are to take back or return home to the
Petitioner will commence to run.
DATED this Twenty-third day of June One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JOHN J. AUSTIN, Solicitor, 83 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Large and enthusiastic audiences
greeted Marjorie Lawrence for her con-
certs last week. The singer, who is as
easy to look at as she is to listen to, has
no mannerisms except for the breadth
of Jier smile, a pleasantry which seems
to be infectious, for the audience unwit-
tingly smiles with her. Miss Lawrence’s
choice of apparel for her first concert
was a gown of stiffened chiffon the color
of faintly-yellowing parchment. Frills
from the hipline edged with hand-made
lace descended obliquely to form a train.
Gardenias were placed high upon her
head, and a coral pendant was her only
jewellery adornment. Flowers carried in
after the climax of “The Erl King” made
a frontier line of vivid color across the
platform.
Members of the C.W.A. descended
upon Melbourne last week for meetings,
discussions and visits to the annual exhi-
bition in the Town Hall. There the work
touched its usual pinnacle of excellence.
Delicate pieces of craftsmanship in
needlework, knitting, tapestry, etc., were
much admired, and spectators again voiced
their amazement at the inexhaustible
patience necessary in the creation of such
exhibits. A section which caused par-
ticular interest was that devoted to the
stork baskets containing all travelling
conveniences for the baby who goes
motoring. Everything for the small per-
son’s comfort is part and parcel of the
little cradle, which can fit easily into a
car. There are even tiny hot water-
bottles with cute covers of knitted wool,
of flannel appliqued with animals or of
quilted velvet. One stork basket was
made of lavender stalks. The sweet-
smelling plant also appeared in baskets
for other uses, as did sedge, millet, hemp
and a variety of seeds. One exhibitor
who is over 80 contributed a waste-
paper basket woven from sedge, and
enjoyed her work so much that she says
it has added a few years to her span of
existence. A verandah blind of stringy-
bark was an original and successful ex-
hibit in the rustic section.
Authoress Faith Baldwin had her first
glimpse of Melbourne through tears of
influenza (prior to turning her back on
the world and making for bed). She
shook off the germ in a few days, but
feels that she will be back in America
just in time to meet its twin brother, for
every August an influenza epidemic
sweeps across the States. It starts in
Hollywood among the movie stars, runs
up the coast, leaps over the Rockies,
blasts the Middle West in passing, and is
in New* York almost overnight. The
novelist, who is married and the mother
of four children (the eldest is 16, the
next 15 and there are twins aged 12), lives
at New Canaan, so close to the borders
of New York State and of Connecticut
that buyers of property in the district
have to be wary that they don’t buy land
that straddles the border line and so let
themselves in for an avalanche of taxes.
Miss Baldwin enjoys travelling, is a good
sailor, and after two visits to Honolulu
is very partial to Pacific islands. The
climate suits her, and she says she knows
how to keep the holiday social life under
control (she does like time to herself
now and then). She is not interested in
athletic sports, and never surfs, even at
Waikiki.
Guests of honor at the International
Club last week were a band of stalwart
young men in blue coats, grey trousers
and cream woollen sweaters, members
of the Palestine Maccabi Soccer team.
The team, which includes several ex-
international players from a variety of
countries, and a coach who is an ex-
opera singer, sang by request several
Hebrew folksongs. The players, all
young and of good physique, present an
interesting picture of types. Where some
are of Nordic fairness, others are so dark
that they might have come from the
shores of the Arabian Gulf. The man-
ager, Mr. Arazi (nickname O’Reilly),
spoke of sport and national games in
Palestine from the days when the first
goalposts in the country were used as
pegs for the players’ coats. Mr. Arazi,
who is an architect, belongs to the gov-
erning bodies for various sports in Pales-
tine, and was the leader of a 10,000-mile
motor-cycle tour across Central Europe
in 1930. The only bother the Jewish
cyclists had during their trip was in get-
ting out of Czechoslovakia, and that was
because they had entered it unheard and
unseen. The impossible happened on
that date ; the sentries were absent from
the gates, celebrating somebody’s birth-
day with a keg of beer.
The first dance in the ballroom of the
new Hotel Australia took place last week,
when the press-studs upon the carpet
were unfastened to reveal a circular par-
quet floor. Tickets sold out long before
the party, which, as usual, was a great
success. The dancing space was packed,
and tables alongside were pushed close
together. At supper-time everybody
trooped downstairs to the large dining-
room for a formal sit-down meal.
A lucky-dip provided great excitement,
and unexpectedly as the evening pro-
gressed a pile of gifts grew larger for
Mrs. W. R. Burston, who was collecting
bran-pie properties for the St. Vincent’s
Nurses’ dinner-dance on July 29. Passed
over to her were a mixed assortment, in-
cluding a tin of soup and a box of nails
from Dr. Murray Morton, a silver fruit-
dish from Dick O’Sullivan and some
very feminine wearing apparel from Dr.
John Gray (who afterwards landed an
electric kettle, which he decided to keep
for his own shaving water). David
Kimpton handed over canned peaches,
and a coat-hanger was forthcoming from
his sister Prue, whose uncurled head and
straight fringe is unusual in such a day
of crimps and ringlets. Prue was in
black, as were Miss Rawson (from Mt.
St. Evens) and Mrs. Tom King, who
wore befeathered combs in her hair. A
trio of sisters in one party of young
people were Nanno, Moya and Judith
Lalor (grandpapa Peter Lalor was of
Eureka Stockade fame).
Joan Watt (Spencer Shier photo.), who
is an inveterate first-nighter for Gregan
McMahon and other theatrical produc-
tions, will face the footlights herself in
the forthcoming McMahon season of
Oscar Wilde’s “The Importance of Being
Earnest.” Joan is to be Cecily Cardew, a
sweet and innocent maid of eighteen.
Costumes for the play are interesting, and
Maura Kieran vouches for their
authenticity; she did research in the
public library to make sure. Wilde wrote
his social satire in 1895, the last year of
the leg-o’-mutton sleeve, which expanded
to extravagant widths before a sudden
submission to new fashions of restricted
shoulders and wrists. It was also a year
of shallow hats heavily laden with
flowers, fruit and feathers, of tight waists
and high-boned necks.
Influenza took its pickings from the
Manresa Free Kindergarten bridge party
at the Wattle, so that secretaries Lucille
Meehan and Mrs. D. Plant and treasurer
Rita Ryan had several disappointments
over cancelled tables during the morn-
ing, but the “cancellations” offered dona-
tions, so that the charity will not suffer.
Faithfully every year members of this
committee and their friends occupy the
upstairs section of the Wattle, playing
bridge and selling one another trifles to
eat and to smoke. It’s the biggest event of
the year towards the kindergarten’s main-
tenance. The committee people also take
turns in visiting the kindergarten as
voluntary helpers. The president, Mrs.
Hugh McGinnis, came to the party with
daphne upon her lapel. Mrs. J. A.
Dillon, who admitted a Christmasy feel-
ing after parcelling so many decorative
cartons of chocolate, was all in black.
Old Fintononians gathered round their
school flag out at Tudor Court, Caul-
field, for the annual dance. The suc-
cessful function was in aid of the City
Kindergarten. Every year it is for a
different charity. It was on the whole
a very youthful party ; even the head-
mistress of Fintona, Miss Margaret Cun-
ningham, is much younger than most
dominie executants with similar respon-
sibilities. Among those who assisted on
the committee was acting-president Mrs.
C. R. Dickinson, who was accompanied
by her husband; she was deputising for
Olive Norman, who is busy looking after
Faith Baldwin and also doing a quick
tour of the snowfields. In the vicinity of
three brightly-burning fires popular
meeting-places between dances—felicita-
tions were offered to Joan Glass and
John Harper by friends who hadn’t seen
them since their engagement was an-
nounced (wedding will be next year).
There also tennis-players sought out
Doris Mauger with congratulations on
her recent annexation of the hard-court
championship.
In this Spencer Shier photo, is Mrs.
Harry Russell Mason, who before her
marriage last week was Annette Riddi-
ford. The bride and ’groom were un-
attended at their wedding, and the bride’s
attire made a simplicity picture—a frock
in Patou-pink wool Angora and a little
doll’s hat of burgundy velour. Following
the ceremony Annette’s mother, Mrs. C.
M. Riddiford, gave a late-afternoon party
at her home. The newly-married couple,
who are at present motoring towards
some sunshine, will live at Condarra,
Benalla.
A show of shows has come to Mel-
bourne —“Switzerland” on a real ice
stage at His Majesty’s. The first-night
audience, which sat enchanted with the
beauty of the two ice acts (the middle
act is vaudeville upon boards placed over
the temporary rink), dispersed homewards
later with many a guilty feeling locked
in its breast; for faithfulness to the ballet
shoe is put to a test by the superlative
qualities of the ballet skate.
The costumes in “Switzerland” are as
gay and as lovely as a Melbourne stage
has seen for years, and the scenery is just
as exhilarating. Tyrolean peasant cos-
tumes, abbreviated and otherwise, primped
up for ballet, white and silver frocks,
skating scarves worn with a few sequins,
chiffon frocks with accordion pleatings
swishing over the glassy surface of the
lake at Davos Platz, a group of girls as
toy soldiers and men as bear-skinned
Guardsmen come to a climax with a
finale of girls gliding over the ice in
crinolines, the whole scene bathed in
petunia and rose-tinted lights. One
romantic interlude introduces a man and
a maid sitting on a log; a tiny cottage
enters (in pieces and on skates); then
comes the ballet planting tulips (of elec-
lic lights) and the blonde MacKinnon
sisters whirling faster and faster among
the flowers. Ron Priestley and Eric
Gerrard are a wild success as the front
and hind legs of a horse which dances
a gavotte and plays musical chairs with
itself.
Half a dozen leading ladies are
prominent in the co. of 25 or so. Eddie
Marcel, the coipedian, solicited commen-
dation at the final curtain for the elec-
tricians and backstage men who assisted
with the elaborate production. Phil
Taylor, who is the star turn, is a wizard
pretending to be a man. His daughter
Megan Taylor, who is the world’s ama-
teur champion, was in the audience, and
took her bow (at the request of Eddie
Marcel) from the front row of the circle.
Megan, who wore a black velvet coat
collared with ermine, is prohibited by her
amateur status from appearing in the
show. She was with Joyce Macbeth and
Joyce’s husband, Frank Mercovitch. In
the row behind was another celebrity,
Marie Burke, tall and elegant in fox furs,
and long diamond and emerald earrings.
Wearing her husband’s “Say it with
flowers” offerings of gardenias and lily-
of-the-valley, Mrs. Gordon Chirnside
entered the door of the new Hotel Aus-
tralia last week to undertake her duties
there as hostess. During the day she
was aooreciative of many good wishes
from friends, acquaintances and perfect
strangers, and a real surprise in the form
of a beauteous bouquet of flowers from
“the girls in blue.”
The new building spreads itself out in
bars, lounges and a variety of dining-
rooms. Residents for whom there is
accommodation as the workmen leave
the building floor by floor have a dusty-
pink writing-room reserved for their par-
ticular use on the ground floor. Venetian
blinds are its go-between for a view of
the heads and the wheels of Collins-
street. In the snug little Vienna dining-
room Kay Ingleton is to be found. Her
brother Geoff, who held an exhibition
of etchings here last year, designed the
menus with a decor of chessmen.
Young brother John drew the beer-mug
sketch that opens forth a list of thirst-
assuagers.
The wogs of influenza have descended
in full blast upon Melbourne. Business
is not actually at a standstill, but it is
impeded. The germs attacked, members
of the “Geneva” cast with such virulence
that the season after the first night had
to be postponed.


AUSTRALIAN LIFE IN 1889, AS REFLECTED IN JUNE
NUMBERS OF “THE BULLETIN,” WITH 1939 ADDITIONS.
AFTER a pub-footpath brawl in the
Sydney suburb of St. Peters,
which had had unhappy results
for a certain Charlie McCarty,
and to which Mr. Devine is alleged to
have been a party, Mr. Hourigan was
interrogated by the police. Mr. Houri-
gan admitted that there had been a fight,
and that while it raged “Ipunched every-
one I could see.”
.. . ,
Mr. Hourigan was unconsciously
imitating the 1889 Bullet in s attitude to
politicians. When a politician s head
came within hitting distance, it was Bul-
letin practice to hit it. Parkes was the
target for most of the punches, but few
of his contemporaries were spared,
Parkes would refer to himself as
“Prime Minister.” The Bulletin sug-
, t ... „ . , • n ■ ,
P ast - hls - Pnme Mm,stel
vvould be better.
Parkes had complained that “members
of deputations talked too much and
stayed too long”—a way they still have,
He was reminded of a simple remedy:
“Let ’Enry start reading one of his
poems.”
A 1 f .
Always active ,n the pursuit of votes
Parkes laid the cornerstone of a colossal
pub. A couple of days after, he sat be-
side the president of a total-abstinence
society, while Glover expounded the sins
of Drink. Budding politicians who want
to head polls at general elections or by-
elections should keep an eye on how the
old hand does it.”
Parkes paired against the Payment of
.. , L.... ... , ,
Members Bill which was lost The old
man would like no politician to be paid
except himself. When a membah is haro
up he is moah amenable to party dis-
cipline.’ ”
Duncan Gillies, “the smug little auto-
crat of Victorian politics,” had “attained
to that period in his glorious career when
he urgently” needed “to be squashed as
an insult to Australian national aspira-
tions.” A Melbourne weekly had hailed
Duncan as “a man of considerable
,• U ". I ♦ ? T consiueiaDie
calibre , shortened in The Bull i i
an awful bore.
Gillies had cast “poor old Jock
Nimmo, a loquacious teetotal Scotch-
man,” out of his Ministry “in a mdnner
distinctly brutal” ; but the thing was of
no consequence: “a certain amount of
salary is divided among the Cabinet, and
Nimmo has got to leave off drawing a
portion quarterly—that’s all.”
Nimmo had an odd habit of talking
of himself in the third person. Declin-
ing the honor of a seat on the works
committee of the Emerald Hill Council,
said : “Mr. Mayorh! Sir-r: When
Councillor Nimmaw was elected a mem-
bef of councilj Councillor Nimmaw
{ bo ught that as a professional surveyah
be ougb { f 0 be on < be wurruks commytee.
B ut, Mr. Mayorh, Councillor Nimmaw
was n ot appointed to the wurruks corn-
my tee, and therefoghr Councillor Nim-
maw declines now to sit on the wurruks
commytee!
It was supposed that Ntmmo had been
put out to let Matthew Davies, the
Speaker, come in. But Matthew Davies
bad a p r jvate grief: “He did not get the
knighthood he expected on Widow Wet-
fin’s birthday. There was one Davies
too many already monkeying around with
the Order of St. Mike.”
Davies, it was asserted, had been chosen
as Speaker “for nothing whatever but his
money. He began by chickening and
cham ’ ; the journalists. The next
move was garden partjes at his Too rak
mansion He engaged Rosina Caran-
djnb Beaumont and everybody for the
music. The Speaker’s banquet, however,
capped all. It was Heliogabaluslike. No
gabble. All gobble. Tuck up your nap-
kins. Moet, Chateau Margaux, St.
Emilion, Burgundy. Oh, we are so glad
l f; al miserably poor Peter Lalor is dead!
Damme, he could only give you Irish
stew> w^ n> and stringy y ba ° k .. Hie, hie,
hooray fof Mishter shpeaker.”
Davies got a knighthood in a later list,
and as S’Matthew he disappeared from
Victorian politics after the land boom
and most of the banks burst in 1893.
Jimmy Munro was leader of the Vic-
torian Opposition. “Jimmy solemnly
promised to dry up concerning the awful
effects of Drink while he remains leader,
rhe cann Y Scot Perceived at a glance he
inconsistency of denouncing liquor in the
plac£ whenc£ his devoted followers
Woldd be rushing out to see a man.”
Munro became Premier (1890-1892)
an d—after reverses which would have
crushed most men—so did Tommy Bent,
Bent was quoted in 1889 as having said
Parson (whose prayers for rain have been answered at last):
“Now, Lord, this is simply ridiculous !”
First appearance of a joke that has been a grand old standby
for comedians, columnists, platform and smoke-room humor-
ists. It was a “Hop” drawing.
.
of Alfred Deakin that his aversion to
truth” was “like that of a snail f° r salt,
which was pronounced good for a
market-gardener.
In after years The Bulletin had a
genuine admiration and affection for
Deakin. This was not the case fifty years
ago. He married a daughter (still with
us) of Hugh Junor Brown, described as
SAM WINTER.
Drawn by Phil May just before he went to England.
Winter was editor of the Melbourne “Herald,” and no man
has done more to make that publication prosperous and
powerful.
“a millionaire distiller and rabid spiritual-
ist” —the adjectives were excessive. Jokes
were cut over Hugh Junor’s “combi-
nation of spirits both ways.”
“When Deakin first came into notoriety
he went in hard for spiritualism. He has
abandoned the spirits now that he pos-
sesses a charming wife and nice family,
and is as good a materialist as Gillies,
Dow or any of them. He once got David
Syme, of the ‘Age,’ a trifle under the
influence. Deakin’s colleagues of the
‘Age’ looked askance at the young
spiritualist who wrote such dashing
leaders. Professor Pearson wanted to
know: ‘Aw, if you give up one fawm
of supahstition, why do you requirah to
adopt anothah?’ ”
Melbourne “Age” had a great staff in
those days. Syme, Windsor (the editor),
Pearson (author of National Life and
Character ) and Deakin would have been
distinguished in any company. The tradi-
tions established by these men have been
faithfully preserved, and the “Age” can
point with pride to the fact that the great
industrial future they predicted for Aus-
tralia, and worked for, has come about.
Germany, Russia, Poland and the Jews
were in the news in 1889. “General
Gourko, Russia’s bowelless Commander-
in-Chief in Poland,” had announced that,
“in the event of a war with Germany,
Russia will drive out the inhabitants of
Warsaw en masse in order that the garri-
son may not be encumbered by women
and children and other things of little
account. They are ‘only Poles and Jews,’
said Gourko, and therefore 350,000
people will be prodded into the wilder-
ness to die miserably.”
A China Incident was also talked of.
“Colonel Tulloch, the new chief man in
buckram for Victoria, got the billet at
Governor Loch’s suggestion. Tulloch
was with the gunboats at the capture of
Pekin in 1860, at which time plain Henry
Loch was in imminent peril of being
killed by the Chows, who were holding
him and fourteen others in the Chinese
capital. Two of Loch’s companions had
previously been decapitated.”
And in those June, 1888-89, issues there
was much mention of newspapers and
newspapermen. Syme figured in an
imaginary conversation (after Landor).
Dying Friend: “David, do you think
there is a hell?” Syme: “Well, that 1
can’t speak definitely about —I only
know that my paper doesn’t circulate
there.” Dying Friend (giving up the
ghost, with a cheerful sigh): “Then
1 Ffforts were being made to buy or buy
into the Sydney “Daily Telegraph.” The
baronet editor of the Waikato Times had
b mheads ornamented in laige type
with the words “Dr. to Sir William Waste-
Lady Wasten e ys wrote social
articles And “the she-editor” had got
as far afield as Western Australia.” Her
g Louisa Parke, and she
t , her ee ntle influence over the
spaced " columns of the Albany
\\ ,; 5 » »
of Quee nsland,” had
• ?; raging i y D f members of the
spoken clisparag Sydney
N-S-W. sarcastically asked who Mr.
Echo had sarcas
Rutledge was. “The ‘Echo’ ought to
know him,” The Bulletin
“as Mr. Rutledge was once, like some ot
the ‘Echo’ people, a clergyman. All at
once, however, he issued out with a copy
of the Queensland Statutes under his
arm, and passed a flying examination in
secular law. He has ever since practised
as a barrister and labored as a politician.
He is making five times as much money
as when —to put it in B. D. Morehead’s
offensively flippant way—he served God."’
And there was a par. about “an enter-
prising Barrier ‘Miner’ reporter named
Alfred Hales,” afterwards boxing editor
of the “Referee,” patron of Peter Jack-
son and Martin Denny, editor of the
Coolgardie “Mining Review,” war corre-
spondent, Bottomley’s ghost on “John
Bull” when “J. 8.” had an immense 1914-
1918 vogue, and novelist, and known to
all Australian pressmen of his time as
“Smiler.”
“The outspoken criticisms of his paper
had rendered Mr. Hales persona ingrata
to the authorities of the Junction mine,
and the manager thereof had threatened
fire and vengeance against any ‘Miner’
man who dared to inspect his claim.
Three months ago Hales got into the
mine surreptitiously at midnight, and
since that exploit sentries have been
placed at the various openings. The
other day, however, he descended again
in broad daylight, being incited to do
so by a reported discovery of ore, which,
it was said, was being kept secret. The
reporter, who is known by every man
and boy in Broken Hill, dyed his face
and hands black and, dressing himself
flashly, ‘passed himself off as a nigger
sport, and was cordially shown over the
mine by no less a personage than the
manager.’ Proprietor Fenton had his
smart employee photographed in his
mine-inspecting guise, and sent the man-
ager of the Junction a copy. That man-
ager is now the maddest man between
Rat-hole Tank and the South Australian
border.”
Tom O’Connor writes:
In B. 14/6/’39 you reproduced an old cartoon
by. “Hop” representing my late father, Mr. Dan
O’Connor, carrying out an imaginary sugges-
tion to sow potatoes in Martin-place.
What he was really doing was giving to
N.S.W. Martin-place as it is to-day instead ot
the lane it was. He also checked the wind
from blowing through the post office tower by
putting in the clock that is still functioning.
The foregoing mentions only two useful acts
for which his grateful country allowed him
a public funeral from the State Hospital, Liver-
pool, at my expense.


LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
&
"s
mi
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceed £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. V. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
G T JY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensla:d Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South A'is. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
ON SALE EVERY WEDNESDAY,
Price 3d.
Is the most popular 68-page
woman’s paper published in
the Commonwealth. It features
everything a woman ought to
know. Once you read it you
will never be without it.
Every week six to nine
patterns are featured.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Rowley Edkins
R. H. (Rowley) Edkins, of Bimbah
station, Longreach (Q.), is dead at 68.
No man in Central Queensland, from the
Flinders to the Barcoo, was better known.
He was for years the head of the Pas-
toralists’ Union. President of Longreach
Shire (its first), he was a leader in the
commercial, sporting and social life of
the community. Bimbah was renowned
for its hospitality to all and sundry,
from vice-regal visitors to the swaggie,
who never passed on with an empty
tucker-bag.
In his younger days Edkins excelled
in most games worth playing ; his special
hobby was breeding and racing and —
40 years ago—riding his own horses.
Snapshot’s Queensland Cup and Pias-
toon’s Sydney Cup were amongst his
triumphs. He never missed an issue of
The Bulletin, and it gave him a great
kick when The Bulletin tipped Piastoon
for that Sydney Cup when no other
paper gave the rank outsider a chance.
Rowley was the eldest son of Edkins
of Mt. Cornish, one of the biggest
Queensland cattlemen of the last cen-
tury. Sixty years ago Mt. Cornish had
a frontage of 150 miles to the Thomp-
son River, and its herd of 50,000 Short-
horns was one of the best-known in the
land, or out of it. The whole of the
country has since been resumed by the
Crown and reselected, and Mt. Cornish,
with other big runs —Saltern Creek,
Tower Hill, Aramac —has disappeared.
It was the theft from Mt. Cornish of a
mob of cleanskin cattle and a white bull
that provided the foundation for Robbery
Under Arms. Remains of the rough
yards in which it is said the cattle thieves
mustered the stock still stand.
“Motu Mike”: Papuan defence has
gone ahead by leaps and bounds. A
military road has reached the top of Paga
heights, where guns have been installed
by an R.A.A. detachment. Barracks for
a substantial number of men have been
started, and military, naval and R.A.A.F.
detachments and naval provisioning and
fuelling facilities are being provided.
The harbor is being surveyed as an air
base. And it will not be long before
Moresby can boast the most powerful
single air squadron in the Pacific Ocean.
The new R.A.A.F. Short Sunderlands
will be based there during their first days
of Australian service.
Moresby has acquired
military, naval and R.A.A.F. defen-
sive units, and they turned out
at the King’s Birthday parade at
Konedobu, but they had little on
Murray’s armed constabulary. A visi-
tor from West Africa remarks that
he would “back those fellows against
anything bar a good Haussa.” And even
a Haussa would have cause to regret it
if he encountered them in their own
tropic countryside.
**=!=*
“Lid”: The Darwin strike of building
employees, which delayed defence and
civil projects for six weeks, ended with
the strikers gaining a 16s. increase, to
£5 10s., plus margins and allowances,
and the promise of a “Board of Refer-
ence” to settle future rows. Higher
wages will attract more workmen to the
N.T., but it won’t keep them there.
Better and cheaper living conditions and
a few-more amenities are needed.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Mandated New Guinea, the
most northerly jurisdiction within Aus-
tralian legal range, is to have the most
southerly Solicitor-General as its newest
Judge. For P. L. Griffiths, who has re-
signed office in Tasmania to take the
job, it will complete an unusual legal
life. He will be first King’s Counsel to
sit on the New Guinea Bench and the
first former pressman. Born in Victoria
in 1881, he won his final honors scholar-
ship in classics and comparative philo-
logy at Melbourne University. He went
to Hobart as classical master at Queen’s
College. A year of teaching saw him
transferred to the “Mercury” reporting
staff; at the end of six years he was
ready to take his LL.B. degree; two
years later he became lecturer in law
at Tasmania University, being admitted
to the Bar in 1912. At 58, he sets out
to learn a new judicial manner in a
colony in which the death sentence some-
times has to be imposed partly in panto-
mime and partly in pidgin.
* * * *
“Titre”: North Queensland sticks
staunchly by the heads of its local
authorities. The “Register” has pub-
lished a page of pictures of mayors and
presidents, 18, who have held office from
six to 27 years. They don’t represent
small townships or isolated communities
either, but include Townsville, Cairns,
Mackay, Charters Towers, Ayr, Hughen-
den and half a dozen of the most im-
portant shires. Seeing the progress made
in their areas, there seems to be some-
thing to be said for stability of govern-
ment.
* * * *
“K.K.”: Proserpine (N.Q.) has always
been reckoned a quiet town, but it had
its fill of excitement when Sole’s circus
turned up. A lion being put through
his paces walked through an open door
into the open air. An expedition pur-
sued the lion. The circus owners gave
orders that it should be shot; but they
don’t waste lions in Proserpine, where
lions are scarce. They followed the
truant to a house under which it had
taken shelter, and the local vet. Ashton
calmly wielded his lasso. The lion went
home protesting loudly. Meanwhile the
show went on. Nobody in the tent save
the circus people had any idea what had
happened.
% $ * #
“Ross Creek”: Few southerners realise
the extent to which harbor traffic is grow-
ing in some of the bigger tropic ports.
In May 203,000 tons gross of shipping
put into Townsville. Thence were
shipped during the five months ended in
May 18,500 tons of lead, 29,000 tons of
zinc concentrates, 32,000 bales of wool,
1030 tons of meat and over 2000 tons
of sugar. And that’s only one port.
* * * *
“Scat”: I see the Darwin Mobile
Force fought a mock battle with an
imaginary enemy and, theoretically, beat
the invaders off with machine guns and
artillery and “hot beach action.” I’m
very pleased. When I was unofficial
correspondent to the “Daily Kronkus”
during a similar engagement, the struggle
through the dense tropical vegetation to
our position bumped loose some of our
ammunition, and smashed half our rum
supply. And then when we made our
camp we ran our Lewis guns hot shoot-
ing down mosquitoes (real), so that they
wouldn’t dispose of the enemy (imagi-
nary) before we could get at ’em. We
turned in at last, and at 2 a.m. our sentry,
in a theoretical position up an imaginary
pandanus palm, poked his head from
under the blankets and sounded the
alarm. Conjectural searchlight beams
played over a hypothetical cruiser steam-
ing into an imaginary inlet, and we
rushed to the guns. Feverishly we
worked to train them on the invader, and
then —calamity of calamities —they re-
fused to fire. “Dammitall, boys,”
shrieked our commandant, “our beer’s
leaked into the cordite!” We stood
aghast, and our dismay was suddenly
interrupted by a burst of machine-gun
fire. Bullets whipped across the beach,
sending up little fans of sand, and a dark
shadow dived behind a clump of pan-
danus. Another burst of fire flushed the
fugitive into the open, and another
“ Flamin' slow with that back-cut , aren't you?”
brought him down. We rushed over to
where he lay, and found an abo. stretched
out in the sand. The gunner cursed in
his disappointment. “Blast it! Only a
boong, ’n’ I thought I’d bagged one
of them civil servants!” We all
agreed that the affair was a washout.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: While the Government was
longwinded and fussy before it found
its way to build a road to the N.G. gold-
fields, it is not showing the same attitude
on the Sepik, where, without any rhyme or
reason, it has started to build a high-
way into the wilds from the Sepik River
below Ambunti northwards towards
Maprik. What the terminus will be seems
an official secret —maybe Wewak. Local
plantation opinion is hostile. The road
runs through low, swampy, almost use-
less country for much of its course. And
so much Sepik labor has been conscripted
and recruited to carry on the work that
recruiters who supply private properties
find it impossible to get workers.
* * * »
“Dip”: More changes in the N.T.
patrol service. Captain Haultain, who
cost the Commonwealth Government
several thousands in damages and costs
when he illegally arrested Japanese lug-
gers, is no longer harbormaster and
Captain Waterson no longer assistant-
harbormaster or Protector of Abos. —
Waterson said uncomplimentary things
about N.T. administration. Captain Par-
nell succeeds him as assistant-harbor-
master, and John Symington Bell is
named harbormaster and Protector of
Abos.
$ 4* V
“Dau-mai”: Strolling through Mores-
by Gardens, a patrol officer came upon
a native sitting on a seat which he should
not have occupied. Told the man was
a runaway, the officer made him stand
and asked him why he had run away.
The native said he was sick. Patrol
officers in Moresby are taught to have
a fatherly way with the indigene. This
one smiled and, giving the boy a “friendly
backhanded slap,” said: “All right, you
wait here till I come back and I’ll hold
court.” When he came back the man
lay dead. It transpired that he had a
ruptured spleen, and he was in such a
condition that the slightest slap would
have done the damage. The P. 0., charged
with manslaughter, came up before an
experienced Judge. The official attitude is
against any man touching a native, even
with a playful pat; Europeans in the past
have gone to gaol over similar incidents.
In this case, the accused got off with the
recording of a conviction and a £5O
bond.
jjc H* '**
“Munni”: Flapper-press postermen
have missed a chance. “War Breaks Out
in Cape York” would have brought
crowds when southern cities are plastered
with pleas for citizens to join a variety
of gas-protection units. For once, it
would be true. The tribes north of Tru-
banaman mission, round the Holroyd and
the Edward, are having the annual dust-
up, and the Government has dis-
patched an expeditionary force of one
constable to handle the situation. His
relatives need not worry about his safety,
but nobody need envy him his trip. The
country lies along the mangrove coast
of the Gulf, and even yet is not clearly
mapped. I’ve been on the edge of it,
and was kept awake by the warning
“Beware of the Archers,” who have
always had a bad reputation for treach-
ery. Didn’t see any Archers, save a small
and wretched domestic procession, with
a mother carrying a dead baby on her
head. But the mosquitoes were too thick
to see anything. How they manage to
run a war even in winter in Carpentaria
mosquito country beats me.


With New Gland Treatment.
•Loss of youthful • vigor -and vitality ami
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES &>. CO.,
CHEMISTS,
31S George St., Sydnev
sd
The NETWORK
that COVERS—
6PM
6AM
6KG
Perth . .
500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Use., St. George’s Tee., Perth
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year In
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney,
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (D.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow;
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
RADIO NEWS
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Progress of Television.
Britain pioneered modern television,
and the 8.8.C.’s London television
service, opened at Alexandra Palace in
November, 1936, was up to the end of
last year the only service providing
regular programmes for home viewers.
Other countries now have well-established
services. In Germany there is a regular
transmission between 7 and 9 p.m., with
three hours’ testing during the daytime.
In (J.S.A. a public television service
began with the opening of the World’s
Fair in New York at the end of April.
Those transmissions average about two
hours per week, but activity is being ex-
tended with transmitters to cover many
areas besides New York. France has
recently made good progress, and
Parisians get their television from the
Eiffel Tower. Italy and Japan are plan-
ning for regular programmes before the
end of 1939, and Finland will have a
service in time for the Olympic Games in
1940.
Programmes offered to British viewers
total 18 hours weekly, including studio-
produced items, outside broadcasts and
film reproductions. Some of the events
already televised for Londoners include
Modern transmuting aerials used by television stations: (1) N.B.C. aerial on the Empire State Building, N.Y.; (2) aerial
used on N.B.C. mobile television truck; (3) image and sound aerials used by B.B.C. television station (London); (4)
ultra-short-wave antenna of station W8XWJ in Detroit; (5) new G.E. television antenna; (6) C.B.S. television aerials
on the Chrysler Tower, N.Y.; (7) ultra-short-wave aerial erected by station W9XUP.
the Wimbledon tournaments, the Lord
Mayor’s .Show, the Cenotaph ceremony,
the P.M. alighting from his ’plane at
Heston after visits to Berchtesgaden and
Munich, the Derby, the boatrace, the
Cup final, trooping the color, Test
matches, boxing matches and the de-
parture of the King and Queen for
Canada. The television camera and
microphone have visited familiar haunts
such as the London Zoo.
The methods and apparatus used are
interesting and extremely ingenious. The
mobile units are linked, if necessary, in
the Central London area by a special
television cable, but outside this area the
units employ their own transmitters. The
signals are then picked up at the station
and rebroadcast. A valuable feature of
these mobile units is the “fire escape”
aerial; a directive beam array which can
be elevated more than 100 feet in a few
minutes.
Production of plays, cabaret shows and
ballet performances in the studio have
introduced a style and method peculiar to
television, much more complicated than
the shooting of a movie film. Film trans-
missions include regular newsreels, Walt
Disney cartoons, occasional “shorts” and
foreign feature or documentary films.
Full-length features are not regularly
transmitted at present, since producers
and exhibitors are not yet prepared to sell
film rights for fear of box-office losses.
But there have been exceptions, some full-
length films being “Jack Ahoy,” “Aunt
Sally,” “The Student of Prague,” “La
Kermesse Heroique” and “So Ended a
Great Love.”
Vast strides have been made, particu-
larly by the Baird Co., in the manu-
facture of big screen apparatus for
cinema operation, but the 8.8. C. still
regards large-screen television as experi-
mental.
The next 8.8. C. station to be estab-
lished will probably be at Birmingham,
to serve an audience of approximately
4,000,000 people. Some idea of the cost
of a television service extended to the
whole of the country may be gained from
the fact that the capital expenditure on
the London service to September last
year was approximately £126,000.
Revenue expenditure to that date, in-
cluding depreciation and programme,
engineering and staff costs, was approxi-
mately £660,000. For the last financial
year Civil Estimates provided an extra
grant of 15 p.c. of the net listeners’
license receipts, additional to the normal
75 p.c. handed over by the Treasury.
This was estimated to produce £610,000,
of which £406,000 would be required for
television.
The most important question is from
what quarter will come the capital outlay
for extending the television service.
Authorities believe that the public may
favor an increase in the wireless license
fee rather than the introduction of spon-
sored programmes.
Despite the financial difficulties, tele-
vision is now growing enormously in
popularity. There are about 60 different
television receivers produced by some
20 manufacturers in England, ranging in
price from £22 for an “add-on” vision
unit for a mains-operated sound receiver,
giving a picture sin. by 4in., to one-piece
sets with pictures l\'m. by 6in. at £3O,
others with pictures lOin. by Bin. at £4O,
up to receivers with 22in. by 18in. screens
at between £l2O and £2OO. Latest
American publications show a large
number of receivers by leading manu-
facturers such as R.C.A. and Du Mont.
Something will be done about tele-
vision in Australia. It is a matter that
cannot be shelved indefinitely.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
The “QST” two-stage 56mc. M.O.P.A.
transmitter design, referred to in B.
21/6/’39, employs an 89 as e.-c. oscil-
lator unity-coupled to two 89’s in push-
pull as suppressor-modulated amplifier.
No doubt the 89’s were chosen for the
final stage because of their utility as sup-
pressor-modulated valves, but the Aus-
tralian experimenter has another type of
valve in the 6.3-volt series that may well
be substituted for the 89. It is the 6P6,
introduced a year' or so ago by A.W.
Valve Co.
. ¥
VK2VU, Singleton (N.S.W.), writes
concerning his reception of a 56mc.
signal other than that from VK2LZ. The
signal was first noticed on the night of
8/6/’39 at 7.45 p.m. Sydney time, and
appeared in the form of a weak con-
tinuous carrier slightly higher in fre-
quency than the signal from VK2LZ.
On the 10th the signal was noticed again
at 1.45 p.m. at R 3. On the 12th, whilst
VK2LZ was testing with C.W. between
5.40 and 7.15 p.m., the carrier was heard
again, rising to R 8 and fading to R 3,
with apparent switching off at times.
Whenever the unknown signal faded that
from VK2LZ increased in strength. It
is evident that the signal could not have
originated from the VK2LZ transmitter,
as it was audible when VK2LZ was off
the air. No modulation could be dis-
cerned. U.-s.-w. listener Pay ten, of Coff’s
Harbor (N.S.W.), reports a signal on
56mc. between 7.10 and 7.25 p.m. on
13/6/’39. VK2LZ and VK2VU were in
C.W. communication at that time, so pos-
sibly the signal originated from one of
these stations. VK2AEY, of Taree
(N.S.W.), expects, to be active with
crystal-controlled 56mc. transmissions
shortly.
The high efficiency of the coaxial
aerial with Bassett feed-line in use on
56mc. at VK2NO prompted the removal
of the BJK beam and the permanent in-
stallation of the coaxial type backed by
a half-wave reflector spaced a quarter-
wave behind. This array can be thor-
oughly recommended as the ideal 56mc.
aerial system for general communication.
It needs 360-degree rotatidn ; the back-
to-front discrimination is rated at five
points.
An innovation in the 56-42-28mc.
superhet used at the writer’s station is
the addition of the new VRISO-30 volt-
age regulator tube. This tube is a gaseous
regulator, and holds the plate voltage to
all valves in the receiver rock steady.
Where previously C.W. stations needed
to be followed continuously on the dial
with line voltage fluctuations, signals
now remain perfectly steady. One
method of thus treating a u.-h.-f. super-
het receiver is to connect two small neon
lamps (minus resistors in the base) in
series from the plate of the oscillator to
earth, shunting them by a .002mfd. con-
denser. Voltage regulation can be applied
by the VRISO-30 or neon lamps to tuned
R.F. receivers also, with advantage.
While listening around seven metres
on 18/6/’39 a station was heard on about
41mc. at 6.25 p.m. with a carrier fading
from R 9 to R 3. The operator kept re-
peating “Hello Test” and counting up to
ten, but no clue was given as to the iden-
tity of the station. That it was in a dis-
tant location was evident from the rapid
fading. A powerful signal has been heard
during daylight hours around this fre-
quency, the character being that of a
television transmission. Evidently such a
transmitter is being tested in the vicinity
of Sydney, the signal being constantly
strong, with no sign of fading.
Peter Adams, ex-VK2JX and now
ZL2JX, of Wellington (M.L.), has been
appointed co-editor of the N.Z.A.R.T.L.’s
“Break-In” in succession to Keith Shore,
ZL4AI. Adams has had varied experi-
ence in magazine work. In 1934 he in-
troduced the “Australian Radio News”
Quality Receiver while deputising for the
writer. He also won a £5O prize in a
competition for a receiver design.
ZLs now have vigilance committees
on the VK plan. There are five centres,
covering the whole of the Dominion.
Each committee consists of four mem-
bers and a convener.
VK2NO.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: Every broadcasting station
has its record of comments —usually
caustic—which have been inadvertently
broadcast, but a police car used
to direct traffic by means of a loud-
speaker was the other day responsible
for what must be the classic example.
A lady driver whose car was idling in
front of a long line was requested to
“please move along more quickly—you
are obstructing the flow of traffic.” The
request going unheeded, it was repeated
with more volume to the amplifier. This
time she heard it, stepped on the ac-
celerator —and collided with another car
coming from a side street. Clear and
loud came the remark of the broadcaster
to his companion: “Now look what the
silly ——’s gone an’ done!”
H* H*
“VK6WZ”: Surprising that a series
pea-lamp in crystal-oscillator circuits has
not been universally adopted by experi-
menters. The argument that the lamp
requires extra power is not a serious ob-
jection. A 2.5-volt .06amp. bulb takes
oniy .15 of a watt, and this power is
supplied not by the crystal itself but by
the oscillator valve, which, by feedback,
drives the quartz into mechanical vibra-
tion. Any oscillator incapable of supply-
ing this fractional extra power in the
crystal circuit is not likely to damage
crystals, so the omission of the lamp is
not serious. This condition, however, is
unlikely in any but battery-type valves
used in portable gear.
* * * *
“R.H.A.”: Composition -ele m e n t
volume controls must surely be the least
reliable of all modern radio receiver
components. They share the bulk of
the work with the gang condenser and
dial mechanism, and the greatest wear
is in the actual resistance element. The
introduction of rocker-disk mechanism
improved wire-wound controls enor-
mously by taking the wear away from
the actual resistance wire, but these con-
trols are few nowadays. •
W.I.A., N.S.W. Division.
June General Meeting.
Dr. R. Healey, D.Sc., F.lnst.P., Direc-
tor of Technical Research at A.W.
Valve Co., lectured at the monthly gen-
eral meeting of W.1.A., N.S.W. Division,
on 15/6 / ’39, on “The lonosphere and its
Relation to Radio Frequency Transmis-
sion.” The subject proved of great in-
terest both to DX men and u.-h.-f. ex-
perimenters. Dr. Healey explained
clearly the action of the various reflect-
ing layers, referring to the work of Prof.
Appleton, of England, and several Aus-
tralian authorities. A relative chart
showing the rise and fall of the critical
frequencies since 1933 threw consider-
able light on the DX work done in the
last six years in the 28mc. region.
Recent work in Australia shows that
contrasting weather conditions such as
the advance of a cyclone or general wide-
spread rains have a large bearing on the
raising of the frequency limit of refrac-
tion from the E 2 layer. At such periods
unusual distances are likely to be covered
on 56mc. This checks up with the few
instances recorded of 56mc. DX recep-
tion in eastern Australia, and the lec-
turer suggested that the u.-h.-f. experi-
menters should pass on a record of all
unusual conditions where signals are


“Radio
Technical Digest”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO" (t/.5./4.).
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has been
produced to fill*a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now, 16/- per year,
through The Bulletin Office, 252 George
Street, Sydney.
/ - -fni/il/t
ua
Every Radiotron valve
undergoes extensive tests
before it is sealed in its
carton sealed for your
protection. It will repay
you to • . •
Revalve
with
E
Z
THE W 0 R L O'S
STANDARD
RADIO VALVES
heard over long distances to the Research
Board. Such information could be of
great value in the compilation of future
data.
D. B. K.
Short-wave Aerial-coupler
Tuner.
Although the super-sensitive short-
wave superhet of modern design needs
little or nothing in the way of an aerial
to bring in distant signals successfully,
results will invariably be bettered by
using an efficient aerial. The difference
is chiefly that of signal-to-noise ratio. It
is easy enough to reduce volume when
signals are too strong to be comfortable,
but when a receiver is operating at its
peak in order to build up R.F. and audio
gain from an initially weak signal back-
ground noise is always troublesome.
Tuning the aerial was a matter of
supreme importance in early broadcast-
ing days. Valves were not so reliable as
they are to-day, and a high and well-insu-
lated aerial, tuned to resonance, was
always necessary. An aerial tuner for
short waves can be a valuable aid to
better reception with many present-day
short-wave receivers of the simpler re-
generative variety, and also with small
superhets having no R.F. amplifier ahead
of the first detector. The Ideal Ama-
teur Superhet, designed and described by
the writer in B. 15/4/’36, 22/4/’36 and
13 /1 / ’37, included an aerial tuner, which
functioned in effect as a preselector. For
amateur band work it contributed ma-
terially to selectivity and signal gain.
Here is a somewhat simpler type of
coupler-tuner based on an old broadcast
coil unit including a variometer. One
occasionally runs across these old 3in.-
diameter gadgets in the second-hand
stores. The only difficulty is that of the
differential condenser shown in the
diagrams. Such condensers did find their
Fig. I. —A pictorial representa-
tion of the arrangement of the
short-wave aerial tuner.
way to the Australian market a few
years ago, but they are seldom seen now.
A possible source of supply is Murdoch’s
radio department, Park-street, Sydney.
Failing the differential type, an ordinary
two-gang broadcast condenser can be
used, although this will make the
assembly much more bulky. It is claimed
that the tuner works well on all types
of aerial, including doublets of any kind
and single-wire-feed systems.
It consists of a simple transformer with
a tapped secondary, a variometer for fine
control and the differential condenser for
balancing the two coils. Fig. 1 shows
the arrangement and Fig. 2 the circuit
diagram. A ten-point switch is needed,
and can easily be made up with contact
studs or screws and a switch arm. Start-
ing at the variometer end, the former is
first wound with 30 turns of 22-gauge
cotton- or silk-insulated copper wire, with
tappings taken at every three turns to
the 10-point switch. The variometer is
wound with 12 turns of similar wire and
connected to the end of the coil beyond
the last tap. The coil is then bound with
insulating tape and screened with a Fara-
day-type screen of copper or brass foil.
The screen encloses the coil completely
except for a gap of |in. between the
edges. It is tied in position with fine
string and the aerial coil of 30 turns of
22-gauge silk-enamelled copper wire
wound over the whole. This coil is
Fig. 2. — Circuit-wiring diagram.
centre-tapped to the screen and also con-
nected to earth at that point.
The tuner is best mounted in a box or
with baseboard and panel, with a pointer
knob and scale for condenser and vari-
ometer, and a numbered indicator for the
selector switch. Operation depends
mainly on the receiver and aerial used,
but it will be found that there is a switch
position for best results for a band or
even portion of a band. There is also
plenty of scope for experiment with coil
sizes.
D. B. K.
New Voltage Regulators.
The A.W. Valve Co.’s type VR 150-30
and VRIOS-30 gaseous voltage regulators
provide a simple means of high voltage
stabilisation in equipment where current:
drain is 25ma. or
less. Both types
are fitted with octal
base with glass en-
velope, the VRI SO-
SO being designed
to maintain a con-
stant voltage of
150 when the load
current is between
0 and 25 ma. The
VRIOS-30 deals
with the same cur-
rent, but at a volt-
age of 105. If it is
desired to regulate
higher voltages
than 150, two or more of these tuhes may
be used in series, thus providing a total
output voltage of two or three times that
of a single tube.
Incorporated in the construction is a
“jumper” connection which may be
used to complete the A.C. input circuit
of equipment in which the regulator is
employed. Accidental switching is thus
impossible if the regulator tube is not
in place in the socket. Both types should
find widespread application in various
kinds of equipment. The writer has used
the VR 150-30 to advantage in a u.-h.-f.
superhet receiver. Full particulars may
be obtained from A.W. Valve Co., York-
street, Sydney.
D. B. K.
What's What in Radio.
Until recently Fanning and Washing-
ton islands, 84 miles apart in the centre
of the Pacific, had no means of
communication with each other except
an occasional boat. A.W.A. teleradio
equipment installed on each island by
Fanning Island Plantations, Ltd., now
provides continuous means of speech or
telegraphy contact.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: The once famous Carnarvon
(Eng.) long-wave station, which contained
one of the largest transmitters in the
world, is being dismantled. The 400 ft.
masts, consisting of 10 tubular and six
lattice, were built in rows 300 yards
apart on the side of Cefn-du, one of
Snowdon’s lesser heights. They origi-
nally supported an aerial system 3900 ft.
long. The Carnarvon transmitter had
only begun testing when war broke out
in 1914, and it was handed over at once
to Government service. Records of the
apparatus at Carnarvon would reveal
the various stages in the progress of
long-wave transmission, from syn-
chronous and “timed-spark” to water-
cooled valves. The station was used
later for transatlantic service, and has
also been used extensively for the trans-
mission of pictures to U.S.A. On
September 22, 1918, the first radio mes-
sage ever sent direct to Australia was
transmitted from Carnarvon by means
of the timed-spark system.
Considerations for
Constructors.
In the course of experimental work
with radio and electrical apparatus
of all kinds, many economical and
time-saving ideas are unearthed. Con-
structional readers are invited to sub-
mit contributions for this new section.
“P.A.W.”: Recently I experienced
severe trouble in my receiver with radio-
inductive interference from electrical
machinery and tramway circuits. I tried
many types of anti-interference aerials,
but they could not be erected high enough
or far enough from the sources of inter-
ference. I then tried an old dodge—
a buried aerial —with great success. It
was made of one of those old 250-turn
two-pin honeycomb coils enclosed in a
copper screening can. A lead was
soldered to one pin on the coil and taken
through a copper disk enclosing the can,
heavy insulated wire being used for this
lead-in to the receiver. With this make-
shift underground aerial, buried only
12in. in the ground, most of the un-
wanted noise was eliminated.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: When using screened leads
in receivers, especially for grid circuits,
low capacity is desirable between grid
and earth in order to avoid loss of signal
strength. The usual braided push-back
wire is not the best for this purpose, and
it is better to use large-diameter screen-
ing braid with a thin wire for the con-
necting lead. Push the wire well into the
sleeving and it will follow a zig-zag
course, thus reducing capacity loss.
* * * *
“N.W.”: After a year or two of use,
a receiver is certain to suffer from the
settling of dust on the variable con-
densers, unless they are totally enclosed.
Dust sets up electro-static changes be-
tween the condenser plates, causing a
crackling sound when the condenser is
rotated. It is best to clean the con-
densers with a folded strip of thick blot-
ting-paper, passed between all plates
about half a dozen times. Finish the job
off with a clean strip of blotting-paper.
“F.A.8.”: During a field day at
National Park (N.S.W.) recently 2AFZ
and 2TN maintained consistent contact,
each commenting on the clarity and
strength of the other’s signal. Late in
the afternoon the operator at 2AFZ
mentioned that he could see a blue car
through the trees. It was 2TN—not 200
yards away! However, 2AFZ’s perform-
ance was particularly successful, aQS R 5
report being received from Orange.
The Question Box.
(1) Will the same size chassis and panel as
in the original be big enough for the improved
version of the Wide-World Two receiver? (2)
Are there any diagrams of these receivers, and
where can they be obtained? —788.
(1) Yes. (2) The original Wide-World Two
was described in B. 15/8/’34, and the im-
proved version in B. 21 /8 / ’35. A copy of the
latter can be obtained from this office, price
6d., plus postage.
* * * *
(1) Would the Ideal Amateur Superhet, as
described in The Bulletin be suitable for use
in n.-w. Australia, where 1 have to rely on
batteries for power? (2) What aerial system
would be needed for general amateur band com-
munication here ? —787.
(1) Yes. The 6.3-volt valves with .15-ampere
heaters can be included, thus reducing the
accumulator drain. (2) The Jones single-wire
feed system, either 66ft. long with feeder 66ft.
or 33ft. long, tapped lift, on centre. This will
provide an efficient fundamental and harmonic
system for 40, 20 and 10 metres. If 80-metre
reception is wanted also, the aerial should be
133 ft. long, with feeder tapped 22ft. off centre.
* * * *
(1) Enclosed is the circuit diagram of a pro-
posed modulator for a low-powered battery-
operated portable transmitter. The IG6G will
be required to modulate another IG6G which
will be used as a Class-C R.F. amplifier.
Which will give the best results —the IASG as
speech amplifier, as shown, or a IG4G ? A
high output carbon microphone will be used,
and fair speech quality only is desired. Input
transformer will be the ordinary Class-B type,
as available here. (2) Would the better am-
plification and output of the lASG pentode be
nullified by the plate impedance presented by
the transformer primary, that being well below
the impedance required for maximum output?
—785.
(1) and (2) A fair impedance match can be
obtained by shunt-feeding the IASG used as
a pentode, but because a fairly high plate
resistor will be needed it will be necessary to
use a reasonably high voltage B battery. There
should be sufficient gain from a IG4G used
normally if the microphone is sensitive enough.
The modern “neophone” type microphone is
suggested. If enough gain is not evident, the
IASG will give greater gain than the JG4G
when triode connected, and this should first be
tried before attempting to match it to the
transformer primary with pentode connection.
* * * *
What firm in Sydney handles the Carbon-
cell 786.
Amplion' (Australasia) Pty., Ltd., 66 Clarence-
street, Sydney.
* * * *
Can you give me details of a suitable unit
for use with a guitar, to reproduce through
an audio amplifier and speaker in the same
manner as a pick-up is used with recordings?
—789.
The illustrations show how such a unit may
be made up from an old magnetic-type speaker
magnet, with the strings vibrating between or
adjacent to the poles of coils. In this arrange-
ment a single stretched metal “string” vibrates
between the poles of two coils which are spaced
as close as possible without permitting the
string to touch on maximum vibration. The
coils are in series, with the free ends con-
nected to the amplifier input. The centre illus-
tration shows how the unit may be assembled
Unit for string guitar.
on a wooden bar to form a one-string fiddle,
and the lower illustration is of a multiple unit
designed for a guitar. Headphone pole-pieces
will do for the coils, and the unit is mounted
above the strings with each positioned accurately
under its pole-piece.


THE SEA-BIRD ENTHUSIAST DRAWS ATTENTION TO A DIFFERENT TYPE OF GULL.


SELL YOUR WOOL WHERE
THERE’S SPOT DEMAND
Europe consumes three-quarters
of the world*s wool and London
is Europe*s Market
SELL YOUR WOOL IN LONDON
CONSIGN THROUGH YOUR USUAL BANK OR AGENT
THE ASSOCIATED LONDON
SELLING WOOL BROKERS
Balme & Thomas
Buxton, ‘Ronald, Du Croz & Co.
Hughes, Willans, Irwell & Co.
Jacomb Hoare & Co.
Schwartze Buchanan & Co.
Windeler & Co.
u
42/
972
If It’s for Hard Work, It’s the “Stockman”
Made with a double sole and genuine Scotch Zug Upper.
Leather-lined throughout with best quality Calf Skin.
Reinforced Elastic-sides and ankle strap.
PRICE 42/-
“// it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Shearing Economies?
“Murrawong”: After their experience
of low wool prices growers may be led
to attempt economy in shearing. It is
not necessarily a good plan. At present
award rates it costs a certain amount to
shear a sheep and to provide enough
labor to handle the wool properly. Shear-
ing quotes are cut by engaging fast
shearers without regard to quality, by
defying award conditions in not provid-
ing learners, or by trying to get past with
insufficient shedhands to handle wool
thoroughly.
When wool prices are low, it is impor-
tant that the clip should be well pre-
pared. With a large clip, a good classer
is essential, not only to keep the fleece
lines even, but to control the shedhands
and their work. A loss of |d. per pound
on the skirtings of a clip that have been
badly picked would more than pay the
classer’s wages.
In a clip of 75-200 bales, classing, or
the lack of it, may make a difference of
id. per pound. In sheds of less than
eight stands, the classer usually carries
“ 'Oo's lifted the soap, Ma?”
out other work in addition to classing,
It may be woolrolling, piece-picking, pen-
ning-up or boss of the board.
Wipe out the classer and an extra shed-
hand has to be employed. The fleece
lines may suffer only a little, but the clip
as a whole suffers more because of the
lack of skilled supervision of the skirting,
the piece-picking, the handling of the
locks and the pressing, weighing and
branding.
In a small shed, the classer’s chief
worry is to get as much of the clip as
possible out of star lots.
Without a classer, it is possible, of
course, that there will be no star lots
at all, but if classing is rough or unprac-
tised and no provision is made for inter-
lotting lines that may match, the bulk of
the clip will probably figure in the stars,
During the past two seasons competition
for star lots has steadily decreased. At
the present time practically all the local
repackers and speculators are out of the
business, so the prospects for lots of four
bales and less are decidedly black.
Corriedales and Export,
“Sheepo”: “Ghanam” (B. 7/6/’39)
mus t realise that an export ban on Corrie-
dales would profit Australia little. Maori-
land could, and does now, supply over-
seas competitors with all the Corriedales
they require. For years past they have
been sent to S. America and S. Africa,
Corriedales are already well established
in several S. American countries, and
classes are provided for the breed at most
of the stock shows,
More important to prohibit the export
of the merino’s close relation, the Vic-
torian Polwarth. Few Polwarths have
gone overseas, except as mutton, since
the breed was established in the ’eighties ;
and now, with Polwarth wool running
merino so close—Polwarth prices have
been better at times than those ruling for
best merino—there is every reason why
a breed which grows what has been de-
scribed as “the scarcest wool in the
world” should be kept out of competing
countries.
, . ... ,
Lucerne and Wool.
“Hortus”: Mushy wool will go off
completely if sheep have much lucerne,
but good-charactered wool isn’t affected.
One station on the Macquarie sowed
lucerne all round a new ram-shed.. It
struck well. The rams sent to Sydney
Show are in as good condition as those
from any other stud in the State. The
fleeces have a nice tip; the wool is true,
stylish and bright. A batch of 20 Austin
Wanganella ewes, picked for true wool,
were run solely on lucerne all the
summer. Their wool finished off well.
Lucerne is a great sticker.
Lucerne drilled in with an oat crop
in the Hay district last year made good
growth (under irrigation) till November.
The block was eaten off then and left
during the hot spell. Nothing was seen
until the rain came. A fortnight after
the first couple of inches the lucerne
came away. The soil was self-mulched
black.
More Fly Measures.
“Birrie”: In Brewarrina (N.S.W.) dis-
trict the autumn rains totalled 12in. in
six weeks. Blowfly had never been so
active.
I know of six stations within
a radius of 100 miles—whose shearing
totals are 80,000, 50,000, 45,000, 25,000,
16,000 and 12,000 respectively—which
have coped with the fly pest with mini-
mum losses. All the sheep were crutched,
and jetting commenced immediately on
account of cuts being blown. Jetting was
repeated every three weeks.
The property with 50,000 sheep needed
six men with a jetter and five musterers,
helped by good yards and jetting arrange-
ments. They averaged, in jetting, 2500
sheep a day. All this in flock ewes whose
average cut is 131 b.
Practical sheepmen know that fly can-
not live in an arsenic base, and even
when that base rises from the skin with
the growing of the wool a sheep when
struck is immune from blood poison.
Low-price Grain.
“Curlew’ : Wheat is the best and
cheapest supplementary feed for dairy
cows, horses or sheep.
Our central Victorian district suffered
badly in the summer, and large quan-
tities of wheat were brought in from
other districts. Landed on the farm, it
cost about 2s. 9d. a bushel. Allowed
to leak out of a corner of the bag as
we drove across the paddock, it wasn’t
wasted —sheep cleaned up almost every
grain.
Four ounces per sheep per day was
fed, and showed good results. At that
rate one bushel would last one sheep 34
weeks —cost, about one penny per week.
To dairy cows I fed 2|lb. daily mixed
with a little chaff. I boiled the wheat for
two or three-hours—Blb. put in a kero-
sene-tin of water next morning was
almost a full kero.-tin of boiled wheat.
The cows put on condition and improved
their yield.
For pigs the grain should be ground
and soaked a few hours, but if there’s
no plant for grinding boiling in plenty of
water for a couple of hours would be
equally satisfactory.
Phalaris Tuberosa.
“H.A.L.”: Though Phalaris tuberosa is
apparently well thought of by the C.S.
and 1.R., and though the Waite Institute
(S.A.) speaks of its “outstanding possi-
bilities,” particularly for preventing domi-
nation of pastures by Cape weed when
clover and topdressing have built up soil
fertility, S.A. farmers who have tried it
are seldom enthusiastic.
The farmers admit that it is a hardy
perennial which makes abundant growth
in a balanced pasture, and that it looks
good. Their chief objection is that stock
won’t eat it! Sheep and cattle will take
everything else in the paddock and leave
the phalaris alone, young or old, fresh
or coarse and rank.
I have just walked over a paddock
where sheep have eaten sub. clover and
perennial rye to the ground, but phalaris
is untouched. Those sheep have been
there ever since autumn rains started the
feed.
The Waite Institute says that the grass
requires careful grazing management.
But how else can you “manage” a pas-
ture save by putting a mob of hungry
stock in to eat it?
Something seems to be wrong some-
where, and there are no complaints
against the N.S.W. grass. It would be
interesting and helpful to hear from
those who have found phalaris useful.
Conserving Self-sown Crops.
“Granova”: The abnormally wet and
warm autumn has provided N. S. Wales
wheatbelt farmers with a sound oppor-
tunity to conserve self-sown crops as
fodder.
Crops are maturing now, and the
wet, showery June weather may defeat
efforts to make hay, but the crops
can be cut for silage. The crops are wet
with dew until noon on most days, and
wet canvasses may prevent the use
of the binder. If a mower is used
this difficulty will be overcome, but the
material will have to be raked up and
carted loose. This adds to costs.
Very green, sappy crops should be left
on the ground for several days before
carting, but those containing last season’s
stubble should be pitted when fresh. Rain
on open pits need not cause any worry;
but do not allow water to run into the
pit.
Wheat-land Erosion.
“Granova”: Contour banks are help-
ful in saving undulating cultivation from
severe damage from heavy rains, but they
have their limitations.
Here in Temora (N.S.W.) district, we
find that contour banks will successfully
handle the surplus water in a 200-acre
(“Man on the Land” continued on
next page.)


u
NO ACHING FEET
OR WEARY BODY
Long and strenuous days in the saddle, when foot
comfort is so necessary, make horsemen all over
Queensland give preference to the
ZIPP” RIDING BOOT
(Reg. design No. 9292.)
The elastic sides are convenient —putting on or
taking off of the boot is easy, simple, and quick.
Made from strong Tan Calf Leather, with welted
soles, with “Zipp” fastener at side or front.
Available in full or half sizes.
Price, pair
State your size when ordering.
33/9
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.
QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
fflteffextlleizfrL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
paddock, the vertical distance between
banks being about 6ft. Where we run
the water from one paddock into tne
next trouble occurs in the lower paddock
during heavy storms. Now we intend
to allow the water from some ol tne
banks to run down the division fences,
and hope to prevent gutters washing out
by steadying the flow with netting dams,
and by planting couch and Kikuyu grass.
We have given up trying to deal with
big streams of water that enter from
neighboring farms, and are making
efforts to prevent the water washing
out gullies along its natural course.
No erosion occurred on land well
coated with grass.
As an experiment we ploughed up a
patch in the farmyard which sloped
steeply and had been eroded down to
the harsh clay subsoil. We fenced it off,
gave it a heavy dressing of stable manure,
and sowed lucerne and Wimmera rye.
This year (the second) the patch is
matted with grass, and although it is not
drained and it receives a lot of water
from bare land above, erosion has ceased.
Feed* and Good Pigs.
“Pappamosca”: Turning out good
litters is largely a matter of feeding. No
other animal’s success is so greatly de-
pendent on the ration.
The pig interior is a delicate arrange-
ment, and at three weeks most pig
mothers cannot keep pace with the
family appetite. That’s the time to
bring out the supplements. Don’t feed
in the pen with the sow —work behind
a rail under which the youngsters can
run, but which won’t allow the sow to
get to the feed.
The way to feed is to give a little
often. Skim and whole milk together
are the best artificial weaning diet. Or
give the youngsters a choice with a little
meal and pollard. Skim is an absolute
essential in some form. It should be
fresh daily.
Pigs should wean round about 401 b.
weight.
Oat Trials.
“Ager”: More N.S.W. areas are being
sown down with oats for sheep feed dur-
ing winter and early spring.
Early-maturing varieties, such as
Dawn, Belar and Mulga, are to the fore.
These produce more green feed during
winter than the late-maturing Algerian
types. But where average rainfall exceeds
22in. Algerian will hold its own, as far
as hay or grain yield is concerned.
At Dookie College (Vic.) Dawn scored
the highest average hay yield over five
years.
Algeribee (a new and improved selec-
tion from Algerian) has beaten its mother
over two years’ tests. Belar and Mulga
are placed lower than Algerian. Lachlan
last year was approx, equal to Dawn.
Lachlan is a coming oat. It is late-
maturing—slightly earlier than Algerian
—and is superior to Algerian for grazing
purposes.
The results of trials were:
Hay Yield in Cwt. per Acre.
Average Average
Five Two
Years. Years. 1938.
Dawn 27.0 20.7 20.9
Algeribee .. .. 20.3 20.6
Algerian .... 26.4 19.0 20.6
Mulga 24.5 18.6 19.8
Belar 18.7 20.4
Lachlan .... 21.1
The tests were carried out on stubble
ground.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: We catch rats by
sprinkling a handful of flour, bran or
crushed grain in the bottom of an old
cream can and leaning a plank to the
top of it on the outside. Once in the
can the rats can’t get out, and they don’t
mind jumping down for food.
“Hortus”: You can’t beat molasses
as an appetising stock food. It’s a good
conditioner, and it supplies energy.
There is only one drawback —cost of
transport. You can get as much as you
like from the mills at £1 a ton, provided
you supply some sort of containers. Ex-
periments at Mackay (Q.) Experimental
Station prove that with a daily ration
(while in work) of 541 b. chaffed cane tops
or panicum grass, 61b. molasses (heavy)
and 31b. linseed meal farm horses
can be kept in good nick to the end of
harvesting.
“Mulgo”: Try nosebags when hand-
feeding cows. Each cow gets her full
ration, and none are horned away from
the feed.
“Mt. Boppy”: A lucerne stand will
last longer if it is cut instead of grazed.
Constant trampling by stock damages
the crown of the plant by bruising or
crushing young growths. Young growt
comes rapidly below the cut stems alter
mowing. Life of a stand is lengthene
by regular topdressings with super-
phosphate and application of lime every
three or four years.
“Canbelego”: Two cornsacks will
make a rug for the average cow. Split
bags down the seam, sew them together
and place on the cow, to get the correct
fit. Cut off a strip of bag so the rug
will not hang too low. Use the strip to
make the thigh straps. Fit the front of
the rug by turning up the corners and
sewing them to the sides, thus strengthen-
ing the rug. Neck and other fastenings
are easily adjusted. After a few days
wear the rug becomes practically water-
proof. Remove the rugs every day, ex-
cept in bleak or rainy weather.
“Bundalinga”: A perennial rye and
white clover pasture will not succeed in a
paddock which has grown crops for
several years. Build up the fertility of old
cultivation paddocks by sowing sub-
terranean clover and topdressing an-
nually with 2cwt. of super, per acre for
five or six years. Then break the land
up, work it into a good seedbed and
sow perennial rye and white clover,
with scwt. of ground carbonate of lime
and 2cwt. of super, per acre. Continue
the annual topdressing of 2cwt. of super,
per acre. Perennial red clover and cow-
peas can Replace sub. clover as fertility-
builders on the N.S.W. far North Coast.
“Lactis”: Pasture improvement,
fodder conservation and careful selection
of stock have enabled 65 cows to in-
crease their butter yield from 11,0001 b. to
between 21,0001 b. and 22,0001 b. on L. O.
Rofe’s Ryefield, Bemboka (N.S.W.),
property. The land is grassed with sub.
clover, red and white clover, rye grasses
and cocksfoot. The same attention is
given to these sowings as if they were
crops for marketing. Chain-harrowing
and topdressing are done every year,
2cwt. per acre of super. being
used. Rofe has 77 tons of silage, 37
tons of lucerne, 16 tons of cereal and
meadow hay and 2j tons of maize in the
cob.
“Yarrunga”: The sheep-classing service
of the N.S.W. Department of Agricul-
ture is being extended this season to
1500 small owners and breeders. It is
expected to handle 350,000 head, as com-
pared with 332,000 last year, when 210
stud flocks, mostly of British breeds,
were included. Also about 1800 rams
were selected and bought. The service
is for owners of not more than 2000
sheep, and is generally followed up for
three years.
“Charcoal”': In Westralia the number
of tractors using producer gas has risen
from 62 in 1937 to about 500 in 1939.
Under normal farm-loading conditions
a machine which operates for a fuel cost
of from 2s. to 2s. 6d. per hour on kero-
sene consumes about 251 b. of charcoal
per hour when operated on gas. Cost is
from 4d. to 9d. per hour. Best results
are obtained with rubber-tyred tractors.
Daily care of the gas-driven machine
takes a little longer, but the saving in
fuel pays for that.
“Porcine”: The Australian Meat
Board’s advice to pig-farmers to grow
baconers in preference to porkers is
having favorable results. Bacon-curers
in Britain are ready buyers of lean,
meaty frozen baconers from this side
to supply deficiency in home production.
In the first 10 months of the current ex-
port year Australia shipped 142,178 cwt.
baconers (128,652 cwt. last year) and
65,382 cwt. porkers (89,702 cwt.).
“Romney”: The president of the
Queensland United Graziers’ Associa-
tion states that 17,681,867 sheep worth
£8,840,933 have been lost through
drought in his State during the last 11
years. A Caroooweal-Blackall-Charle-
ville railway would have saved the State
£1,000,000 a year.
“Dungeness”: Australian growers of
merino wool have a special grievance
against warmongers of all descriptions.
Merino fabrics are best for civilian
wear, but field uniforms require the
tougher, closer-set crossbred staple.
Every fresh fit of the calamity-howlers
is a jolt to the merino man.
“Imlay”: At Elmgrove, a highly-im-
proved and fertile dairy farm of 600-odd
acres on the Brogo River, O. Guthrey
has for years set an example to the Bega
(N.S.W.) district in extensive fodder con-
servation and generous feeding of the
milking herd. With an average of 130
cows in the bails, he was able to win
again the local fodder competition and
represent in the R.A.S. championship.
He has the highest-producing herd on the
South Coast: 100 Jersey cows averaged
3291 b. butterfat in the semi-official re-
cording of the Department of Agri-
culture.
“Jayem”: A good winter is assured
in all N.S.W. dairying districts. Feed
is plentiful and stock are in good con-
dition. Dairying is extending in inland
areas, which have made a complete re-
covery after the dry spell. In some in-
land areas it is difficult to get cows.
The increased attention paid to stall-
feeding in winter, rugging of cows and
pasture improvement should enable a
bigger output of butter to be maintained
in winter months. Winter exports may
be possible in larger quantity. They are
essential if Australian- butter is to main-
tain the continuity of supply which keeps
overseas customers.
“K.Mc.”: W. J. McSweeney, of
Canowindra, took the R.A.S. open fodder
conservation championship for inland
N. S. Wales for 1939. Although he hand-
fed 1500 sheep and 130 . head of large
stock for seven months on a 760-acre
property and sold 2000 tons of lucerne,
reserves on hand are sufficient for nearly
two years. The president of the N.S.W.
Agricultural Bureau, J. Cavanagh, lifted
the trophy for the graziers’ section. On
his Roanoke property of 4009 acres he
has enough stored fodder —mostly cereal
hay, grain, and silage —to last 4000 sheep
for two and a half years. !he runner-up,
W. H. Swain, Peak Hill, put up a re-
markable performance for the western
plains, being only one point behind.
“Yeno Ham”: Pastures at Berry
(N.S.W.) Training Farm carry a dense
sward of paspalum, perennial rye, white
and subterranean clovers. The paspalum
was renovated a few years ago, and the
rye and clovers worked into the pasture.
Each year paddocks are topdressed with
scwt. of ground carbonate of lime and
2cwt. of- super. Paspalum areas contain-
ing perennial rye are renovated during
February to avoid disturbing the rye
which starts a forward move early in
March. In flush seasons when cattle
cannot cope with the growth, the mow-
ing machine is used. Pastures are
harrowed frequently to distribute animal
droppings.
“Atrax”: To most farmers soil-
erosion means obvious washaways
gutters and gullies, growing rapidly
deeper with every heavy rainfall.
Actually, erosion of a particularly de-
structive kind can, and does, occur with-
out any such danger signals, and goes
unchecked until once-rich land gives low
and still decreasing yields. Old scrub
soils on slight slopes, particularly in
basaltic formations, are the worst suf-
ferers. The fine surface tilth is a main
determinant of crop yields from such
soils, and acts by checking evaporation
from root levels. If land is falling oft
in productivity without any apparent
cause, look carefully over a few selected
patches in fine weather, and again after
heavy rain. If tiny pebbles, twigs and
little firm lumps then stand out clear
on a relatively-smooth surface, erosion
is going on even if there isn’t a wash-
away within a mile, and it needs
attention.
“Nagheer”: My friend Dagshear is a
hardworking woolgrower of the third
generation, brought up in the business.
At recent Brisbane sales he got 2ld. a
pound for his scoured wool, out of which
he had to pay freight and selling charges.
With cool weather coming in, his wife
ordered him a couple of medium-weight
all-wool singlets. They were marked
“All-Australian.” The net price was
15s 6d. each. Put on the scales, they
weighed just lib. between them. Ot
course, spinning, carding, weaving,
marketing and the rest cost money, but
what bothers the Dagshears—and me,
tOO i s why it should come to £1 9s. 3d.
more than their gross return for the same
weight of well-scoured raw material, sold
at nearly top market price. Who gets
the best cut from the 295. 3d. profit?


. . . “ARE YOU
UP TO DATE ON
INSURANCE?”
im
This is the question the Manufacturers’
Mutual representative on the right put
to the gentleman on the left.
This man didn’t know that to-day keen insurance buyers have
caused a tremendous swing to Mutual Insurance with the
“ Manufacturers’ Mutual.” He was grateful to this salesman
because it saved him money to learn how to reduce insurance costs
and to learn the following facts about “ Manufacturers’ Mutual.”
1. Manufacturers’ Mutual has paid
dividends to Policyholders for a
quarter of a century. This has meant
average dividend savings to Workers’
Compensation Policyholders since
inception of more than 18%. This
year Compensation Policyholders
saved 15% while Boiler, Public Risk,
Marine, Fidelity Guarantee, Personal
Accident Clients saved from 10% to
15%.
2. These profit bonuses are made
possible by :
(a) Lower expenses. A very large
percentage is saved of every pound
you pay in premium.
(b) Lower Losses. As much is saved
in claims on account of our safety-
first service to our Policyholders.
We have a complete safety organisa-
tion employing a number of expert
engineers daily advising and co-
operating with clients to stop
accidents, thereby providing the
profits for Policyholders, in which
they participate.
3. Manufacturers’ Mutual has grown
in size, strength and premium income
every year for a quarter of a century,
notwithstanding that during this
period there were wars, panics and
depressions. This record, unequalled
in insurance history, is your assurance
that all claims, including those of a
serious nature which may have to be
paid over a period of years, will be
met in full.
4, Manufacturers’Mutual Service is
more than writing a policy and
collecting a premium. We arrange
policies to your need.
The Manufacturers’ Mutual representative will be glad to help
you on your ringing BW 2071 or writing. He will give you all the
facts about the savings you can make while obtaining the security
and service that Manufacturers’ Mutual offers.
MANUFACTURERS’ MUTUAL
INSURANCE LTD.
Manufacturers 5 House, 14 O’Connell Street, Sydney
We underwrite all classes of Insurances Fire, Marine, Personal
Accident, Burglary, Plate Glass, Public Risk, Highway Robbery,
Loss of Profits, Motor Car, Customs Bonds, Workers' Compensation.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—-now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A CORN
gXLK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d Daeket will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’COltN
oirK at Gd. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GRIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq ; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E, Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORMES. . .
With offices at London. Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
iffices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers. New South Wales, also repiesenta •
non tlirouwlT the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
“ns Bank Offers the fullfst facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
Ihe right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Seat in car or truck from Melbourne to Bris-
bane and return.—3Bo4.
To buy Hemingway and Robertson’s Model
Answers to Federal Institute Examinations,
May, 1936, April, 1937, October, 1937—3838.
To buy Moore’s The Canine King and
Grasses and Fodder Plants of N. S. Wales. —•
3832.
To get in touch with person versed in ancient
Egyptian language—37Bs.
To hear from secretary of country progress
association who could supply a copy of the
constitution of the association as a model for
a new association. —3755.
Information Sought.
I once read that although Shelley had been
a professed atheist during his life he had, whilst
on a boat during a storm, called upon his
Maker for protection. Byron was said to have
been present at the time. (1) Is this story
authentic or, if not, what are the facts? —3733.
Shelley was a professed atheist, as witness
his pamphlet, “The Necessity of Atheism” (for
circulating which he was sent down from Oxford
in 1811), and “A Refutation of Deism” (1814).
In later life he was laughingly called an infidel
and a blasphemer by Lord Byron. Cannot
vouch for the authenticity of the story you
quote, but Andre Maurois, in his La Vie du
Shelley, relates that Shelley and Byron, while
staying in Switzerland, were nearly over-
whelmed near Meillerie by a sudden lake-
storm. Byron began to strip, but Shelley, who
could not swim, sat still with folded arms. His
calmness increased Byron’s admiration for him.
Long afterwards, Shelley, speaking of this
storm, said, “I knew my companion would try
to save me. and it was a humiliating idea.”
* * * *
A few biographical details concerning Richard
Henry (or Hengist) Horne ? —3876.
Born in London, January 1, 1803, he was
educated at Sandhurst, failed to enter the East
India Company’s service, and began an adven-
turous career by enlisting in the Mexican Navy
during that country’s revolutionary war against
Spain. He travelled among the North Ameri-
can Indian tribes, was shipwrecked in the
Gulf of St. Lawrence, and was in a mutiny
and a fire at sea before returning to England
in 1828. Until 1852 he stayed in England,
where the epic Orion was published, when he
left for Australia with William Howitt. He
held various positions, beginning as commander
of a gold escort, and passing on to be succes-
sively a commissioner of Crown lands, a
magistrate and a member of the board of water
supply which constructed the Yan Yean reser-
voir. In 1869 he returned to England, and
died at Margate on March 13, 1884. While in
Australia he wrote nothing of literary value,
but was a notable figure among Melbourne
writers and critics, of the ’sixties.
**. * *
Particulars regarding the short-story competi-
tion being conducted by the Australian Liter-
ture Society, Melbourne? —3840.
A prize of five guineas is offered for an
original short story not exceeding 3000 words
and not already published. Authors who have had
a novel published or who have received pay-
ment or a prize for a short story are not
eligible. Each story must bear a pen-name and
be accompanied by a sealed envelope contain-
ing the name and address of the writer. Pen-
name and title of story must be written on the
outside of the envelope. Entries to secretary,
Australian Literature Society, 1 Ellesmere-road,
Windsor, S.l, Vic., before September 30, 1939.
Last year £6500 was placed on the Common-
wealth ' Estimates for the Commonwealth
Literary Fund; £l5OO, I understand, was ear-
marked for literary pensions, and the remainder
for the encouragement of Australian literature.
Has the Federal Government done anything
about the encouragement of Australian litera-
ture and using the money set aside for that
purpose? —3569.
The committee of the Commonwealth Literary
Fund has approved of proposals for the grant
of financial assistance for the award of fellow-
ships, the reprinting of standard works now
out of print and the publication of manuscripts
of outstanding merit which, without financial
assistance, would probably remain unprinted.
The purpose of the fellowships is to aid per-
sons who have proved their capacity*to do
creative work in the field of literature, but are
prevented from exercising their abilities be-
cause of financial stringency. Applications
should be submitted on the prescribed form,
and must reach the secretary, Commonwealth
Literary Fund, Prime Minister’s Department,
Canberra, not later than August 1, 1939. The
committee of the fund may grant a living
allowance not exceeding £250 per annum to
each holder of a fellowship, who must be pre-
pared to devote the whole or a substantial
portion of his time to the production of a
specified work. The fellowship will be tenable
for one year, but in special circumstances may
be renewed. Financial assistance may be
"ranted in certain circumstances towards the
cost of printing manuscripts of literary value
and universal appeal, and, in the case of fiction,
of exceptional merit. Application, together with
a copy of the manuscript, should be sub-
mitted to the secretary of the Commonwealth
Literary Fund prior to August 1, 1939, and
must be accompanied by a recommendation
from a person who • has read the work and is
qualified to express an opinion as to its literary
value.
l|( $ f
Names and addresses of about 10 British
music publishers ?— 3883.
Edwin Ashdown, 19 Hanover-square, W.l;
Augener, 18 Great Marlborough-street, W.l;
Boosey and Hawkes, 295 Regent-street, W.l;
Chappell and Co., 50 New Bond-street, W.l;
J. B. Cramer and Co., 139 New Bond-street,
W.l; J. Curwen and Sons, 24 Berners-street,
W.; Francis, Day and Hunter, 140 Charing
Cross-road, W.C.2; Novello and Co., 160
Wardour-street, W.l; A. Weekes and Co., 13
Hanover-street, W.l; and Joseph Williams, 32
Great Portland-street, W.l.
* * * *
Fiction published by Australian authors last
year in (1) Australia and (2) London? —3893.
(1) J. Armour The Road to El Dorado, C.
Cooper Hong Kong Mystery, Xavier Herbert
Capricornia, H. Hodge Death in the Morn-
ing, G. B. Lancaster Promenade, Mary Lloyd
A Mock Widow, Stuart McDonald Island In-
terlude, Alison McDougall Wind in Spring,
J. J. Mulligan Women Are Such , F. J.
Thwaites The Mad Doctor in Harley Sheet
and A Man of Destiny, E. V. Timms' Maelstrom,
A. W. Upfield The Bone Is Pointed, J. Wal-
lace The Sedan Murder Mystery and G. W.
Wicking The Mysterious Valley. (2) Winifred
Birkett Portrait of Lucy, Martin Boyd Night
of the Party, Hilda Bridges Men Must Live,
Eleanor Dark Waterway, Jean Devanny Paradise
Flow, Arthur Gask The Grave Digger of
Monk’s Arden, Rex Grayson Snatch and Grab,
Frederick Howard The Negroes Begin at Calais,
Michael Innes Hamlet, Revenge and Lament
for a Maker, Norman Lindsay Age of Consent,
Eric Lowe Salute to Freedom, Paul McGuire
Burial Service and W.l, Seaforth Mackenzie
Chosen People, Mary Mitchell Meat for
Mammon, Myra Morris Wind on the Water,
Rosemary Rees Sing a Song of Sydney, Jean
Spender Death Comes in the Night, Eleanor
Turton Virgin Soil, A. W. Upfield Winged
Mystery and G. W. Wicking Bales of Trouble.
What is the meaning of “post-impressionism”
as applied to art? —3899.
The term was originated by art-critic Roger
Fry about 1910 to describe all the artistic
reactions from impressionism. It covered the
works of such men as Cezanne, Van Gogh,
Gauguin, Matisse, Picasso and the cubists,
and signifies merely that they came after the
impressionists.
Some particulars concerning peeresses in their
own right ? —3889.
Peerages are occasionally granted immediately
to ladies of distinction or to the widows
of distinguished men, but frequently the in-
stances falling under this heading are the result
of regular inheritance in lines which are open
to females in default of males. A resolution
to admit peeresses in their own right to the
House of Lords was defeated in that House in
1930. A peeress in her own right retains
her title after marriage, and if her husband’s
rank is the superior she is designated by the
two titles jointly, the inferior one last. Her
hereditary claim still holds good in spite of any
marriage, whether higher or lower. No rank
held by a woman can confer any title or even
precedence upon her husband, but the rank of
a peeress in her own right is inherited by her
eldest son (or perhaps daughter), to whomso-
ever she may have been married.
Correct usage of “continual” and “con-
tinuous” ? —3841.
Fowler’s ' Dictionary of Modern English
Usage expresses the difference clearly. It says:
“That is continual which either is always going
on or recurs at short intervals and never
comes (or is regarded as never coming) to an
end. That is continuous in which no break
occurs between the beginning and the (not
necessarily or even long-deferred) end.” An-
other authority points out that continual can
be replaced by constant and perpetual : “He
suffered from continual thirst”; “There were
continual delays.” Constant and perpetual,
however, would not be appropriate in the case
of continuous : “The canals form a continuous
waterway for 300 miles”; “The new aeroplane
is capable of three days’ continuous flight.”
* * v *
How did the following Sydney suburbs get
their names: (1) Concord, (2) Ashfield, (3)
Burwood and (4) Homebush? —3870.
(1) In December, 1793, six non-commis-
sioned officers and four free settlers received
25 acres each in that locality, and to commemo-
rate the settlement of civil and military men
together the district was named Concord. (2)
First called Ashfield Park by an early settler
named Underwood who came from Ashfield,
England. (3) Means a wood of shrubs, and
was a grant of 1000 acres in 1834 to Alex.
Riley, who named his home, built there, Bur-
wood House. (4) Originally written as two
words and named by the owner of the district,
D’Arcy Wentworth.
* * * *
When and by whom were the following Eng-
lish schools founded, and what are their
mottoes: (1) Eton, (2) Harrow and (3) Rugby?
—3874.
(1) Founded by Henry VI. in 1440; motto,
“Floreat Etona.” (2) Founded in 1571 as a
grammar school by John Lyon, yeoman, of
Preston, in the parish of Harrow, under a
Royal Charter from Queen Elizabeth; motto,
“Donorum Dei Dispensatio Fidelis.” (3)
Founded in 1567, by Lawrence Sheriff, a native
of Rugby, one of the Gentlemen of the Prin-
cess Elizabeth, a Grocer and Second VVarden
of the Grocers’ Company; motto, “Orando
Laborando.”
(1) How many Federal elections has William
Morris Hughes contested ? (2) What has been
his majority (first count) over the nearest can-
didate in each election? —3886. .
(1) Fifteen. (2) West Sydney, 4590 in 1901,
4143 in 1903, 1505 in 1906, 8014 in 1910
10,539 in 1913, 10,587 in 1914; Bendigo, 4181
in 1917, 2615 in 1920; North Sydney, 4663 in
1922, 20,355 in 1925, 15,998 in 1928, 12,965
in 1929, 2593 in 1931. 22,848 in 1934 and 22,132
in 1937. #
(1) Procedure for withdrawing a motion be-
fore a meeting ? (2) Procedure for withdraw-
ing both amendment and motion before a meet-
ing? (3) Should the chairman permit debate
upon whether motions or amendments should
be withdrawn? (4) Can a seconder of an
amendment or motion ask that an amendment
or motion be withdrawn? —3867.
(1) and (2) A motion can be withdrawn by the
mover with consent of the seconder and with the
agreement of the meeting, but if an amendment
is before the meeting the motion cannot be
withdrawn until the amendment has been dis-
posed of either by the mover thereof withdraw-
ing it (his seconder, then the meeting, con-
senting), or by its being put to the vote in
the ordinary way as an amendment. In the
case of the proposal to withdraw both the
amendment and the motion, the chairman ascer-
tains the feeling of the meeting in regard to the
amendment, and if it is in favor of the with-
drawal he declares the amendment “withdrawn
by leave.” Similar action is then taken in
regard to the motion. (3) and (4) No.
* *
, Would it be possible for an aeroplane to
encircle the earth, travelling continuously in an
easterly direction, and return to its starting-
point, or would it have to travel in a westerly
direction along some part of the route? —3824.
The earth would be completely circumnavi-
gated on an easterly route only if the aeroplane
started at, or near, the Equator, when a great-
circle route would be followed and the dis-
tance travelled be 24,860 miles. Starting from
the southern latitudes, for example, the general
direction would vary from E. to N.E. to E. to
S.E. to E. The aeroplane will not travel in
a westerly direction. The general route may be
easily folowed by drawing a circle on a ball in
such a manner as to divide it into two equal
parts.
* * * *
A few details of the flight of the three Vickers-
Wellesley bombers from Egypt to Australia
last year? Who held the long-distance air
record which they regained? —3B72.
Three R.A.F. long-range Vickers-Wellesley
bombers (L. 2638, L. 2639 and L. 2680) left
Ismailia, Egypt, on November 5, 1938, for
Australia. L. 2638 and L. 2680 reached Darwin
on November 7 about 48 hours from start,
and L. 2639, which had landed at Koepang to
refuel, followed about hours later. The
non-stop distances flown were 7162 and 6600
miles. The record was previously held by
Russian airmen who flew from Moscow to
California, July 12-14, 1937. The average speed
of the Vickers-Wellesley bombers for the 7162
miles was 149 miles per hour.
v * r *
(1) Any difference between the h.p. of a
steam-engine and the h.p. of an internal-com-
bustion engine ? 1 have been told that the h.p.
of a steam-engine is the higher of the two. (2)
Difference between i.h.p. and b.h.p. ? —3780.
(1) No; one h.p. represents the performance
of 33,000 f.p. per minute. The society of
Automotive Engineers, however, bases its for-
mula on the assumption that the piston speed
of an internal-combustion engine is IOOOft.
per min., and that the mean effective pressure
is 901 b. per sq. in. As both piston speeds and
mean effective pressures vary considerably, this
formula is not altogether accurate. Further-
more, if both the steam and the internal-
combustion engine have the same i.h.p., the
latter will deliver a smaller b.h.p. owing to the
friction losses during the non-working strokes.
(2) B.h.p. means the h.p. delivered at the crank-
shaft. I.h.p. refers to the effective work done
on the piston by the steam or by the force of
the explosion.
What is the “carrier-wave” system of tele-
phony ? —3825.
It is a system whereby a large number of
two-way conversations may take place simul-
taneously over the same pair of telephone wires
without any one conversation interfering with
another. The system is very similar to wireless,
chief difference being that the waves travel
along a wire instead of through the ether, and,
like wireless, the receiver can be tuned to the
required wave to the exclusion of all the others.
The carrier frequencies employed vary from
about four to 150 kilocycles, and these are modu-
lated by the voice. As many as 35 conversations
may take place over the line at the same time.
Where can l obtain plans for an 18 ft. motor-
launch or a book dealing with the subject? —
3617.
Plans may be obtained from W. D. Bailey,
c/o W. Kopson, 70 Clarence-street, Sydney.
The construction of an 18ft. motor-launch is
described in Small Boat Building, by Monk
(Charles Scribner’s Sons, N.Y.), 165., from
Dymock’s Book Arcade, 424 George-street,
Sydney. Useful information is also found in
Motor Boats, by W. Atkin (McMillan), price
16s.
* v * *
A few details concerning the fresh-water
crocodile found in Queensland? —3895.
The fresh-water crocodile (Crocodilus john-
stoni), which occurs in northern Queensland
and the Northern Territory, grows to about
7ft.; it has a more slender snout, and its head
is not so rough above as that of the estuarine
or salt-water crocodile; the plates on the neck
are also different, the series being almost
continuous with the other enlarged dorsal plates.
It is also comparatively harmless, and feeds on
fish.
Brief Answers.
J.S.W.: Due to a muscular spasm caused
by the accumulation in excess of certain
products resulting from hard exercise. It passes
off after rest, and is sometimes avoided alto-
gether by carefully-graduated training M.L.:
Unless the condition is the result of adhesions
following an accident, you would be unwise to
consider operation, but you could consult any
good orthopasdic surgeon J.D.: The use of
rectified spirit with oil of roses should over-
come the trouble N. 8.: (1) The Common-
wealth Government agreed to pay bounty on
all lint cotton up to 25,000 bales in 1938, but
only approximately one-half of this amount was
produced. (2) and (3) There is no overproduc-
tion and no restriction of cotton acreage.
Efforts are being made to increase the acreage
and production of cotton in order to meet the
rapidly increasing Australian demand. (4) No.
A.A.C.: Maps of the Parish of Harring-
ton, County of Macquarie (N.S.W.), can be
obtained from the Lands Department, Sydney,
for 2s. each D.J.: Information regarding
balance sheet of the N.S.W. division of the
Red Cross Society is contained in the annual
report, which can be had from the society s
offices, 27 Jamieson-street, Sydney A.A.: Get
in touch with J. R. Hooper, Automobile Club,
89 Macquarie-street, Sydney R.W.: It is
a very old idea that a child may be influenced
by pre-natal impressions made on the mother.
There is slight warrant for it, because there is
no nervous connection between the mother and
the unborn child. Such happenings are prob-
ably coincidences, and none has survived scien-
tific analysis... .G.R.: Write to Eye Culture,
107 Elizabeth-street, or Eye Exercises, 369
George-street —both Sydney... .J.W.M.: Market
for local gypsum very limited. Superior quality
from Adelaide preferred. Price from 40s. to
555. per ton. delivered Sydney. Try Frank
Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street, Sydney....
A.E.M.: (1) No references to the timber
available. (2) No record... .A-F.S.: (1) S. H.
Prior Memorial Prize, 1939, closed June 6 last.
(2) Angus arid Robertson, 89 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney J. 8.: Write to the “S. M. Herald,
38 Hunter-street, Sydney... .K.R.: The Aus-
tralian Literature Society, Melbourne, declares
that Australian Book Week will be held annu-
ally during the first week in June, commencing
in 1940 T.P.K.: Cannot supply name and
address of a contributor without his permission.
A letter addressed to the nom de plume care
of The Bulletin, would be forwarded.. ..
B B.: No particulars available locally. Write
to the Colonial Office, London... .W.G.8.:
Cannot supply material for debates. Several
books on subject are available at most public
libraries... .N.S.M.C.: The Duke of Kent
married Princess Marina of Greece and Den-
mark on November 29, 1934 J.S.L.: Cannot
trace the crest. Write to the College of-Arms,
Queen Victoria-street, London, E.C.4 R.R.:
The royal family name was Guelph until the
Great War, when it was changed to Windsor.
....J.A.M.: Terms given are incomplete; send
further details... .R.V.: The Modern Letter
Writer, 2s. 6d., post 3d., from Angus
and Robertson, Sydney... .M.A.0.: Eastern
Standard Time is exactly 10 hours ahead of
Greenwich Mean Time, and is kept by Queens-
land, N. S. Wales, Victoria and Tasmania
South Australian time, half an hour behind
Eastern Standard Time, is kept also by the
Broken Hill district.... J.F.T.: (1) Write
Forestry Commission of N.S.W., 44 Margaret -
street, Sydney. (2) Arthur Yates and Co., 184
Sussex-street, Sydney J.R.S.: Small hope
for employment as chauffeur-gardener for man
and as waitress for his wife in a private home
in Brisbane. Wages would be small, and the
work is not covered by any industrial award.
Position would be similar in Q’land country
districts, except, perhaps, on stations C.D.:
W. R. Hammond (42 innings, 3011 runs, two
not outs, 75.27 average) headed the batting
averages last English cricket season; Haid-
staff (37 innings, 1827 runs, seven not outs,
60.90 average) and Hutton (37 innings, 1874
runs, six not outs, 60.45 average) were second
and third... .H.C.: The Cunard-White Stai
liner Queen Elizabeth is 85,000 tons. She will
make her first voyage, Southampton and Cher-
bourg to New York, 1940.... A.M.: Unofficial
reports credit the Soviet Union with over 100
submarines, including craft of over 2000 tons
displacement. A large proportion of these is
reputed to be in the Baltic, but it is afi con-
jecture or propaganda A.L.J.: Conne-
warre is a Vic. abo. place-name meaning ‘black
swan”; Jabbarup is a W.A. abo. pUce-name
meaning “plenty of grass” C.0’8.: Ihe
drama competition conducted in connection with
Australia’s 150th anniversary celebrations in
N S. Wales was won by Henrietta Drake-
Brockman with her play “Men without Wives.
J.D.: Apply Registrar-Generals Office,
Queen’s-square, Sydney. Copy of _ T c ?, rt i*A te
will cost 2s. 6d H.S.: The N.R.M.A.,
Spring-street, Sydney, will be pleased to sug-
gest a route for you and to provide the .neces-
sary maps... .W.M. i Full particulars, mclud-
ing sailing dates and accommodation, are avail-
able from Burns, Philp, 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
A.T.F.: Chances of obtaining such a posi-
tion are very slight unless you have had ex-
perience and are a member of the union. You
might, however, canvass the various shipping
companies... .R. 8.: Know of no local literary
agents who would handle that class of woik.
There are not, however, so many markets that
you could not handle the selling yoursell.
Full lists are given in the Australian Authors
and Artists’ Handbook (35.), available from
leading booksellers... .S.J.: Apart from ie-
views of books of short stories written by Aus-
tralian authors, published at the time of the
appearance of the books,, very little material
is available on the Australian short story, bee
Green’s An Outline of Australian Literature
and a number of articles scattered through the
Red Page of The Bulletin. .. .R.J.: Con-
sult your solicitor... .W.A.: Parliamentary
Librarian, Parliament House, Canberra, A.C.1.,
will forward you a list upon application....
K.D.: The Dunbar was wrecked at South Head,
Sydney, on August 20, 1857, with 121 lives lost.
There was one survivor E.N.: Tommy
Rough” is another name for the Australian
salmon V.R.: 146 Australian species of
trapdoor spiders have been described... .O.J. :
Gaimard’s rat-kangaroo (B. gaimardi ) of N. S.
Wales has a distinct black tail-crest and the
hind feet and the underside of the tail white.
...K.W.: Send your address and a copy of
the rules and full directions for laying and
marking a court will be forwarded N.N.:
See your local doctor, or apply to any of the
large Sydney public hospitals... .E. 8.: The
Criterion Theatre, Sydney, was closed on July
13, 1925.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
SADDLER-MADE
HORSE
RUGS
WITH
"STAYS-ON"
FITTINGS.
(Illus. Right.)
No. A SUPER
BLEACHED ALL
FLAX CANVAS.
FLEECY CHECK
fsd
LINED, sft. 6in., 44/-; sft. 9in., 45/6;
6ft., 46/6.
f
WITH HIND-LEG
STRAP FITTINGS
(Illus. Left.)
No. CSF Extra
heavy navy canvas,
white felt lined, sft.
6in., 32/6; sft. 9in.,
33/6; 6ft., 34/6.
Post 2/9 per Rug.
Write for Rug List. ■ _
WALTHER i> STEVEMSOM ltd:
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
Hunting is symbolic of England’s finest traditions. Traditional
too is the standard set by the Canadian Australasian Line
on its Trans-Pacific service.
Regular monthly sailings between Australia and Canada, with calls
en route at New Zealand, Fiji and Hawaii.
347 George
Street,
Sydney.
All information from:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OE N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
CoModioM
Jim
59 William
Street,
Melbourne.
1
m
m
li
1
m
FORWARD EXCHANGE
CONTRACTS
Importers and Exporters can arrange a definite exchange
rate for future transactions by making a forward exchange
contract with the Bank of New South Wales.
Contracts can be made for money transfers, at lowest rates,
at specified future dates, to and from Great Britain, the
United States, and most other important countries. This
special exchange service is designed to protect traders
against fluctuations in foreign currency values.
Experienced officers of the Bank are available to give advice
on any exchange problems.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
7,500 AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
468A.1939
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re corUnbuttons
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
S.V.T.: Is that all you can do with a
drought?....B.T.L.: The death-roll of pros-
pectors is already overcrowded... .H.T.N.: Cut
and try a daily... .L.P.T.: You haven’t a
sense of humor H.T.S.: The , mystery of
Mary’s garter remains unsolved L.R.F!.:
Piffle 8.5. R.: You should feel happier now
that you’ve got that off your chest N.H.W.:
It’s the best you’ve done, but it’s dreadful
J.T.S.: Fair L.E.R.: We’re lenient, but
there are some things we can’t forgive
J.D.D.: Nothing in that batch... .T.S.: De-
scriptions of sunrise and sunset all right, but
where’s the yarn... .D.L.M.t Sunk... .T.R.:
Might make a par 8.L.0’N.: It’s hap-
pened to us, too, but we didn’t write 6000
words about it V.T.: The finish spoils it.
. ...H.R.R.: An unimpressive roar G.T.L.:
It started all right, but you apparently forgot
the plot C.L.E.: Off our beat... .V.R.P.:
A very distressing experience N.R.P.: It
wasn’t worth the trouble “It isn t
exactly a new plot.” No, not exactly....
8.T.5.: Not interested H.N.E.: Try that
elsewhere and call here with something lighter.
B.C.D.: Why all that excitement about a
dream? 8.5. F.: A church publication seems
to be its mark... .T.N.R.: “The Visitor” was
ushered out... .J.T.C.: Style not bad, but you
need a plot G.F.K.: An uninteresting sub-
ject N.T.: At least it’s patriotic R.E.Y.:
Old stuff 8.E.P.: Get on to something you
know and keep trying... .F.G.P.: You haven’t
done much to improve them N.R.W.: What
do you expect us to say about something we
can’t read... .L-P-S.: Shows about as much
promise as a broken egg... .G.N.R.: Pay more
attention to dialogue... .V.R.W.: Revise and
try again... .T.8.R.: You can’t do that here.
L.P.C.: Something there, but it needs
much better handling... .L.8.R.: Liked the
way you fastened the pages together... .T.P.:
You’re not improving; take a spell M.F.W.:
“Thy Father’s Ghost” won’t skulk around
these premises... .L.G.E.: And we can’t worry
about “The Troubles of Sister Mary”....
N.T.E.: Have yet to hear a kookaburra “laugh
hauntingly.” H.T.8.. C.L., F.R.T. and D.C.:
Not here.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
E.J.W.: Idea has possibilities, but the draw-
ing lacks merit E.D.: Prepared to bet you
have never seen an abo J.M.: Ambitious,
but that’s a11....J.5.F.: Old, 01d!... .H.M.S.:
We’re still totting up the mistakes
A.D.8.: The youngster shows promise, but
he needs lessons V.C.: Decorative and
pleasing to the eye, but there’s not a laugh in
any of the three T.J.: Conversation between
two deformed gravediggers did not add to the
week’s gaiety W.M.N.: We’ve run across
that couple before... .A.R.: You should be
drawing maps.... V.T.: We have a dim recol-
lection of having attended the funeral of that
jest many years ag0....T.W.: Little boy looks
like a gnome and his mother like an exhibit
from a freak show R.R.: Your progress is
very slow 1.C.: Not impressed by spec-
tacle of Prime Minister somersaulting over
spiked fence H.T.: Better leave those char-
acters to Oswald Pryor S.M.S.: Failed to
detect any connection between the gag and the
drawing.... J.D.G.: Not this week’s worst, but
very close to it P.M.: Whoever taught you
forgot to explain what perspective meant....
K.E.: About as amusing, as a collection of
finger-prints... .R.G. Cannot recall your pre-
vious efforts, but we doubt whether they could
have been as poor as the present samples
A. 8.: She can draw reasonably well, but her
work is more suited to fairy-story illustrations.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Kali”: “D.F.” (B. 31/5/’39) is wrong.
Actually there are four other Sydneys,
located respectively in Nova Scotia, Mis-
souri, Florida and N. Dakota. Mel-
bourne is even more popular, there being
one each in Manitoba, Nova Scotia,
Ontario, Quebec, Arkansas, California,
Kentucky, Michigan and Washington,
and two in England. Instead of
being unique, Brisbanes are found
also in California, Illinois and N.
Dakota, and there are two more down
in S. America. Adelaide shares its name
with towns in S. Africa, Ontario, Cali-
fornia, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio,
Pennsylvania and S. Dakota. Darwin
also is well in the picture, one being in
the Argentine, while North America can
produce another eight.
% * * *
“C.Q.”: There is a misprint, or rather
an omission, more celebrated than the
“S. M. Herald’s” recent bloomer. Early
in the seventeenth century an English
printer brought out an edition of the
Bible. A sensation was caused when it
was discovered that he had left out the
“not” in the commandment prohibiting
adultery. The unlucky man was fined
the then enormous sum of £3OO, and the
edition became known as the “Wicked
Bible.”
% * *
“D.F.”: Now a mark of extreme
respectability, and seldom seen in Aus-
tralia except at Government House
garden parties, formal evening re-
ceptions and A.B.C. celebrity concerts,
the top-hat had a revolutionary be-
ginning. It evolved in America out of
the steeple-crowned hat which the Puri-
tans had taken across the Atlantic. It re-
turned to Europe, where that kind of hat
had died out, except in the cultural
backblocks, on the heads of the Yankee
envoys who went to Paris during and
after the Revolutionary War. This re-
appearance of the “Henty the Fourth”
hat so tickled the French fancy that they
fashioned in its likeness the embryo of
the nineteenth-century top-hat. Between
1797 and 1848 the top-hat ran the whole
scale from ultra-liberalism to ultra-
respectability.
“Uramao”: Among the many enter-
prising Maorilanders who have achieved
distinction in aviation abroad is Lowell
Yerex, from Lower Hutt, aged 43.
Yerex, after war service with the R.A.F.,
knocked about the air in the U.S.A. and
Mexico, and finally came to land in the
Republic of Honduras, where he now
controls a fleet of 40 aircraft. He handles
all the commercial air transport, and his
business embraces Salvador, Guatemala
and Nicaragua. Before descending to
the prosaic business of collecting eggs,
butter, gold and silver ore and convey-
ing them in an hour and a half distances
that formerly took ten days, Yerex
helped rebels to win one of these revo-
lutions.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: I know of a case that con-
tradicts the dictum of the Controller-
General of Munitions that victory in
future wars will go to- the population that
loses the least sleep. The Muruts of
Borneo lived in fear of extermination by
the Dyaks, and would have long since
disappeared if it had not been for one
thing. Every Murut inherits a pain-
ful skin disease called korop which
keeps them scratching. The charac-
teristic sound that breaks the peace
of their long houses at night is a noise
like the gnawing of an army of rats —it
is the Muruts agonisingly scraping the
scales off their skins. Strange as it may
seem, they call it the “lucky disease,”
just as the Chinese do smallpox. This is
a legacy from the time when the Dyaks
used to creep up at night under their
long houses and poke spears through the
floor into their recumbent forms. Be-
cause of the universal complaint it was
unnecessary for the Muruts to set an un-
reliable guard, and it was equally impos-
sible to find them all in the arms of
Morpheus at one and the same time.
Nowadays they don’t need the disease,
owing to the white man’s law, but they
still have it.
* * * *
“Pedagogue”: Australia is the subject
of a new geography-book in which I
read that it “has been called the land of
sand, sorrow, sweat and sin.” Canberra
is described as furnished “with lots of
policemen to control the traffic —but
there is no traffic: Government officials
work there during the day, and at night
get into their cars and rush off to Mel-
bourne or Sydney.” And a typical
country town is pictured; a well-
branded tea-house stands next to the
“saloon,” and horsemen in cowboy hats
ride down the street. I suppose it is
part of the drive for brighter education!
“Craiser”: A young woman wanted a
job on the wireless. Gifted with an excel-
lent voice and a too-ready wit, she was
given an audition, and she sang her
best. “I could hear every word you
said,” the adjudicator remarked, shak-
ing his head. “I’ve been trying for years
to make people do that,” replied the
lady. “I don’t like the way you place
the accent when you’re singing,” he con-
tinued. “What accent?” said the as-
pirant. “Well, take that last song,” he
said. “You put the accent on the first
word.” “No I didn’t,” said the young
lady. “Schubert did that.” The job
went to another singer.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
This week’s prize is awarded to a Tasmanian Digger. Not for the closing
suggestion, which is impracticable, but for the human note it strikes, and for its,
manly treatment of at least one aspect of the case against war. There are no
warmongers among the Diggers.
Must It Happen Again?
When I first came up against Fritz at
Fleurbaix in July, 1916,1 had a white-hot
hatred for the whole German nation.
Except for an occasional leave and a
school or two I was not much out of
action till the Armistice, and, strange as it
may seem, as the years went on and I
lost friend after friend killed or wounded
and saw the frightful casualty lists pile
up, so did my personal hatred for Fritz
diminish. It was diverted largely to those
who caused the war. To statesmen sup-
porting the antiquated dynasties of Aus-
tria, Russia and Germany and to the
dunderheads in high places our
own lines who so ably mismanaged things
and prolonged the war.
It was impossible not to admire Fritz
for a dogged, game and clever fighter.
As a gunner he outshot us all through.
Later, when we came to occupy the
ground he had held, we were all struck
by the orderliness of everything.
For me the last vestiges of this hate
vanished after the fighting round Mont-
brehain and the Beaurevoir line in
October, 1918, when I saw swathes of
splendid young German boys lying where
the machine-guns of the tanks and our
Second Division had mown them down. I
remember being particularly struck by
their physique and fine faces.
I couldn’t help thinking how very much
poorer the world would be for their
loss, and hoped that never again would
we and the Germans be called upon to
slaughter each other.
But now the same old hate is being
worked up on each side, and that hope
has given way to the dread that we may
be shortly at it again.
Can’t it be stopped? Ninety-five per
cent, of the Germans are decent people
—no better and no worse than ourselves,
and, I believe, desiring war as little as
we do. And it is generally recognised
that if Germany and Britain said there
was to be no war there would be no
war —not anywhere on earth.
In a war between these nations
each people must know that neither
would give in till thoroughly and utterly
exhausted, which means a minimum of a
million slain on each side, with innu-
merable wounded and an unholy destruc-
tion of cities, ending probably with revo-
lution in both countries.
Each nation should be prepared to pay
a heavy price to avoid such a dreadful
possibility, and a future devoid of war
is worth a good payment. But to this
fellow’s mind there appears only one
solution, and that is for the two nations
to pool all colonies and make available
to each the raw materials and resources
of the whole, Dominions included. But
for this Germany must come in on a
Dominion status, and adopt the same suf-
frage, standard of living and hours of
labor, etc., and give the same tolerance
to minorities as Britain. — Nicail (Tas.).
“Nicail,” who wins, is Norman A.
Nicolson, Box 3, Campbell Town, Tas.
The Country Town
The P.M. alludes frequently and perti-
nently to the need for an increased in-
dustrialisation of the Commonwealth.
His speeches are timely. That industry
requires every possible stimulation if
Australia is to keep pace with countries
overseas no person will deny.
Nevertheless, a' journey through Aus-
tralia reminds us of a fact too easily
overlooked. Most of our country towns,
even in the most prosperous districts, are
still nothing more than towns. Many of
them are facing at this moment signs
of certain shrinkage unless something
happens to revitalise them. Their civic
authorities will tell you that agricultural
pursuits alone are impossible to maintain
them as anything better or greater.
Now, when giving the spur to Aus-
tralian industry, it is obviously time for
the Prime Minister to consider the urgent
claims of the country town. If, in draw-
ing up his plan for industrial expansion,
Mr. Menzies arranges that industries suit-
able to the various districts are cultivated
in such towns as Wagga, Orange, Tam-
worth, Ballarat, Bendigo, Toowoomba
and Albany he will be laying the foun-
dations of a chain of cities throughout the
interior of the Commonwealth.
The overcrowding of the coastline
capitals such as Sydney and Melbourne
has now proceeded almost to breaking-
point. It is obvious that in the decen-
tralisation of industry we have the secret
of a greater nation. It will solve the
population problem, prevent overcrowd-
ing of certain areas, overcome freight
difficulties and open up the Common-
wealth in a manner that will react to the
benefit of all.—N. B. (N.S.W.).
“Dad” and “Dave” in 1939
The best-meaning people often do the
most harm. When Steele Rudd wrote
On Our Selection he created a tradition
that the folk who lived on the land were
a collection of simpletons, nitwits and
morons. A dozen writers have followed
his example, till to-day the “Dad and
Dave” type of thing is accepted as a true
picture of the country people. I lived
many years among them as the village
schoolmaster and know well that this is
a fallacy. I found that the cocky farmer
was a very shrewd, hardheaded individual
who rarely fell to the smart Alick try-
ing to sell him a gold brick.
The “Dad and Dave” kind of people
really live in the suburbs of Sydney.
Lately I attended a show at a Sydney
music hall and listened to a programme
rapturously cheered by the audience, but
certain of the bird if put on at Dimboola
or at Doodlakine. To prove my conten-
tion, you will find that nearly all our lead-
ing politicians are country-bred boys:
Lyons, Menzies, Dunstan, Isaacs are a
few names that come to my mind. Every
one of the Victorian Education Depart-
ment district inspectors was educated in
a small bush school.
The bush produces wool and wheat
and butter, but it also gives Australia
most of the bright brains that do the big
things of the Commonwealth. — Genung
(Vic.).
Country Mail Delivery
Our Postal Department is no doubt
the best in the world (somebody is always
telling us that sort of thing), but the ser-
vice given in the country does not com-
pare with American service. There
is nothing that really answers to the
Rural Free Delivery of the U.S.A. and
Canada. Even in the prairie provinces of
Canada, where farms are mostly large
and farmhouses therefore scattered, there
is a wide network of distribution. In the
province of Saskatchewan there are 4547
rural boxholders getting their mail de-
livered to their homes. The only cost to
the user is the four dollars (say 175.) for
a box when the delivery route is laid out.
After all, why should a man have to go
to the post-office for his letters just be-
cause he is fool enough to live in the
country? —R. F. D. (N.S.W.).
“As a Just Father”
That is a good quotation concerning
the nation and its industries (B.
31/5/’39), but it does not go far enough.
“Industries” should be extended in scope
to embrace everyone engaged therein or
dependent, directly or indirectly, thereon.
That means everyone in the nation doing
useful work or fulfilling a necessary
function.
Every nation is a family of human
beings, “to be reared as a just father
rears his sons and daughters.” But the
nation does not recognise that fact, and
does not act as a just father.
No just father discriminates between
children. He does not favor his sons
above his daughters, penalising the latter
simply because of their sex. He does not
give the best and the most his income pro-
vides in food, clothes, jewels and pleas-
ures to one or two of his children, in-
ferior qualities and quantities thereof to
one or two others, and the scraps and
the scorned and the worn-out to the rest.
He does not compel some to do the
hardest and most disagreeable tasks of
the home on threat of the deprivation ot
the barest necessities of food and raiment,
while permitting others to luxuriate in
idleness and self-indulgence. He does
not condemn some to live in unhealthy,
comfortless outhouses, while others eat
and sleep and play in rooms designed
for and furnished with every comfort
and luxury. But that is just what the
nation does. .
In my opinion, we shall never attain
to anything worthy of being called civil-
isation till we realise that it is unjust
to penalise anyone because of sex or
the class of labor he or she is engaged
in, and recognise that every man and
woman doing work or rendering service
that is necessary to the material or cul-
tural well-being of the nation is entitled
to an impartial share in the fruits of
the joint efforts of all, that share being
limited only by personal tastes and the
kind and quantity of the nation’s pro-
duction.
To have a civilised society we must
have division of labor, and therefore
simple justice demands that no class or
classes of labor should be despised, dis-
criminated against and subjected to
economic disabilities and hardships.
But I don’t thing an economic order
based on and motivated by profit-making
for individual or sectional enrichment and
aggrandisement is capable of appreciat-
ing the view set forth or of carrying it
into effect.— Daljean (N.S.W.).
Delayed War Injuries
“Half the world doesn’t know how the
other half lives.” Painfully true. Here-
with one instance —in reference to war
pensions.
Billjim is invalided home in 1917. Dis-
abilities due to war service marked
“Chronic.” Receives 13 months’ treat-
ment before discharge.
Discharged with half-pension, 15s. per
week (1918). Allows pension (which has
been reduced to 7s. 6d. per week) to lapse
in 1920, having recovered enough to
battle for himself. In 1935 war injuries
return and prevent him from battling
any longer. He applies for renewal of
treatment to Repat. He is medically
examined, and disabilities are admitted,
but the Repat. Commission refuses to
accept them as “due to war service.” No
reason given. He appeals to tribunal,
and again comes a gutser. No reason
given. Repat. refuses to review his medi-
cal history, and also refuses to allow him
legal advice. In other walks of life the
lowest criminal is not deprived of the
right to review all evidence connected
with his case, nor is he deprived of the
right of legal assistance. Battler
(W.A.).
These “Circles”
Maybe I’m only a poor, bemused
suburbanite, but I do wish some panjan-
drum of the press or the radio would
explain just what comprises this rash of
“circles” which seems to have broken
out overseas and to be rapidly assuming
plague proportions. No matter where
the message comes from, we are told that
in Berlin (or Paris, London, Moscow,
Tokio, for that matter) official, semi-
official, authoritative or well-informed
“circles” believe that, or state that, or
fear that, etc.
The thing seems to be something like
ringworm the way it keeps on spreading.
It’s bad enough to be puzzled by their
mere existence, without having to assess
their importance by the adjective that
generally precedes them. For one thing,
would an “official circle” be more im-
portant than an “authoritative” one?
Perhaps I’m a suspicious cow, but I
feel that these “circles” would be easily
“squared” if there were sufficient palm-
oil about to loosen the hinges on the
tongues of lackeys, chauffeurs and
chambermaids who litter the fringes of
the great. And if there is one thing the
average “special correspondent” lacks it
isn’t a supply of palm-oil.— Gettho
Gink (N.S.W.).
Wanted, a Smaller Penny
Why haven’t the powers that issue our
currency thought of reducing the size of
copper money? It must be over 100 years
since the size of a penny was reduced.
I suggest making the coin a little larger
than a shilling, and the ha’penny a bit
bigger than a sixpence. It would mean
a lot greater ease for the people in
handling them, not to mention a great
saving for the Mint in metal. What are
the objections to the change, anyway?—
A.J.G. (N.S.W.).
A Word for the Schoolmaster
Critics on this page are apt, when they
forget about the politicians, to lay the
blame for all our social evils upon the
heads of the schoolmasters.
Casual mention of the word “sloth”
in recent conversation started the mental
query as to what has become these days
of Sloth, Pride, Covetousness, Lust,
Anger, Gluttony and Envy. Dim spectres
remembered from Sunday-school days,
we don’t hear so much of them now
when moralists rail. Why?
They have been outed by the modern
schoolmaster, using not so much stern
repression as sublimation of energy,
whereby the energies behind these vices
are diverted into more exalted or at least
more legitimate channels. Sport and
physical culture are practised by almost
every individual, and popular education
Australian Literature
An interesting contribution to recent
accusations re the pessimism and lack of
romance in the Australian novel (B.
10/57*39, 24/5/’39) is discovered from
the long-still pen of Marcus Clarke.
“What is the dominant note of Aus-
tralian scenery?” he asks, and finds in
the answer “weird melancholy” sufficient
reason for declaring that “a poem like
‘V Allegro’ could never be written by
an Australian. It is too airy, too sweet,
too freshly happy.”
One could wish from that pen a more
convincing reason, for could there be a
spot on earth more melancholy than the
rainswept bit of Scottish bleakness that
gave us the creator of Peter Pan?
A more discerning judgment would
suggest that the shortcomings of our
novels are due to a lack of appreciation
of those spiritual issues without which the
most world-shaking events are dull and
uninspiring.
They are sad, not from an overplus of
tragedy, but with a penetrating pessi-
mism as far removed from good spirits as
chronic dyspepsia is from good health.
Les Miserables is full of heartbreak, yet
it does not depress, for behind the accu-
mulated sorrows shines triumphant the
unconquerable soul. And Barrie wrote
of a drab little Scottish village, but with
that profound spiritual insight of his he
pierced the dull monotony of its unend-
ing toil, and revealed romance of the
sweetest in the lives of those work-worn
weavers.
It is this spiritual element which we
miss in such brilliant works as Helen
Simpson’s Boomerang. It is this that can
only come with time. Our literature
lacks nothing of form and substance. It
is only following the natural law of
growth if the soul comes last. —N. A.
Dunn (Vic.).
Another reason for the “defeatism” of
most Australian books lies in the fact
that the average city-dweller has little in-
cident or excitement in his or her life.
Where there are no highlights or con-
trasting extremes, experience and a very
sure technique in writing are necessary
to make mediocrity interesting. Most
Australian writers, more or less new to
the job, feel that something unusual is
demanded, but lack the light touch that
can interpret and enliven the common-
place. And, lastly, the convention that
no life can be “real” unless depicted in
slummy surroundings has been respon-
sible for the production of many dull
books. —V. D. (Tas.).
Before 1915 the best Australia could
do in the way of tradition was
good horsemanship, the Eureka Stock-
ade and the Kelly gang. Since April
25 of that year a tradition likely to
become the envy of other nations has
grown rapidly. In Sydney an increasing
crowd of people of all ages and creeds
forsakes its collective bed at 4 o’clock
on a not-too-warm morning once a year,
and similar crowds do the same in other
cities and towns, because of that tradi-
tion. It is becoming a bigger and more
significant thing in Australian life every
year; it is above politics, class and re-
ligion. It is something that takes hold
of every true Australian and makes him
anxious to boast that he is Australian at
least once a year; it is the greatest
national rallying point we have. If ever
the country faces a grave national emer-
gency, let us hope that it is in the month
of April, for in Anzac we have at once
a gesture to ourselves and a proclama-
tion to the world. As a theme for a
writer it holds boundless possibilities, for
nothing could beter describe the Austra-
lian than the A.1.F., the Landing, the
national Anzac Day holiday and the way
its significance has seized on the hearts
of a people who, at bottom, are of the
stuff from which the Anzacs were made.
SCRIBBLER (N.S.W.).


has opened up for the masses the possi-
bilities of interest in pursuit of know-
ledge and the cultivation of arts and
sciences.
The modern schoolmaster has taught
us some respect for the child and some
understanding of his nature.
Yes, we must give him the credit for
leading us so far, at least, from the domi-
nation of that queer regiment the Seven
Deadly Sins. — Kay C. (Q.).
Retirement at 65
I’d like to take a peck with fellow-
Croweater A. Daly (B. 7/6/’39). As
one reaches 65 or dies once only in this
lifetime, I fail to see what lasting benefit
can accrue to the youth of the nation by
arbitrarily retiring those mentally and
physically fit at 65. While admitting that
more jobs would be available to the
youth of to-day, what does it signify in
the long run? (A far-sighted policy of
defence and development in this sparsely-
populated land should absorb youth, any-
way.) Two people living, with only one
producing, the other, speaking in general
terms, to be supported! And there is
a certain amount of refined cruelty in
relegating active men to the scrapheap.
The great majority who rear a family
have little chance of saving for old age.
The basic wage is simply a living wage.
And even supposing superannuation or
insurance becomes general, the old-timer
is reduced almost to penury. Granted
his wants may not be so great. And
good luck to those who can adapt them-
selves to some hobby to make for con-
tentment. But anybody with but half
“Have you tried adjusting the tappets?”
an eye may see ennui settle upon most
of the discarded. To them inaction soon
spells death.
Others again, not satisfied to sit back,
try to augment their meagre incomes,
coming into competition with sections
least able to bear it —the casual worker
or, should they be handymen, the jobbing
tradesman.
And, strangely, one never hears of the
compulsory retirement of the proprietor
of a business, be it large or small. Sauce
for the goose should be sauce for the
gander, and if the employee is too old
at 65, so should the employer, the finan-
cier be —and make way for youth.
But why not be humane and allow
everybody to continue while able and
willing? There is—or should be —a slow-
workers’ clause in every award. With a
fair margin for public safety this should
suffice. And it would savor of weakness
not to know when to draw the line.
Let’s be one big family, and if the
old man would rather wear out than
rust out —why, let him! — Jae (S.A.).
Moral Rearmament
An unusual phrase throughout the last
six months has been capturing the imagi-
nation of millions. In the midst of the
rapidly rearming nations of the world
there comes this call for “moral rearma-
ment,” emanating from such people as
Lord Baldwin, Queen Wilhelmina of
Holland, and from those among the
sporting world such as Bunny Austin and
Captain George Eyston. Despite all the
fear and hate and greed which are rife
throughout the nations, there seems to be
a definite undercurrent of lives seeking a
better way out than war can provide.
How is it that we in Australia have not
heard a great deal about moral rearma-
ment? The “Times” in England pub-
lished innumerable letters from promi-
nent men and provided space for the call
to moral rearmament; many foreign
papers did likewise and copied the
“Times,” yet we in Australia have hardly
heard the phrase. The church issued a
clarion call to action through moral re-
armament, but people outside the church
did not hear. Several newspapers in
States other than N.S.W. published a
manifesto on moral rearmament, and it
was recently read over the national sta-
tions —but how many heard it?
It’s time our daily newspapers took up
the challenge and, instead of simply print-
ing all the details of movements inside
Europe and of all the threats of war, gave
us a constructive policy to help along
peace.
It’s true enough that if we all rearmed
morally with more honesty and unself-
ishness the world would soon be a new
place. So, if moral rearmament is the
answer to war, shouldn’t we seek to
spread its message with every means at
our disposal?— D. M. Dadd (N.S.W.).
At present this catch-phrase “moral
rearmament” seems to keep company
with broad phylacteries and the Phari-
saical prayer “O God, we thank Thee
that we are not as they are!” One
looks in vain for a church leader who
will enjoin that strength which comes of
humility and that confidence based on
truth.
Instead, our would-be leaders roll on
their tongues the sweet morsel of our
essential, unique and unquestioned up-
rightness, and mourn our enemies’ bad-
ness.
There are many who condemn Mr.
Chamberlain for his refusal to come to
a fight with the totalitarian Powers. May
it not be that, unlike ourselves, he is not
doped with a sense of our overpowering
purity, but rather more keenly alert to
the fact that we have both sinned, and
are now sinning grievously in many
directions, and that therefore our glass-
houses have very weak moral defences.
Let us indeed rearm morally!—Mar-
garet Day (Tas.).
Expensive Ideas
So Mr. Charles Holmes, general
manager of the Australian National
Travel Association, paid £2OOO in
U.S.A. for “ideas” to be incorporated
in the Australian (!) exhibit at the
Maoriland centennial exhibition. Is
there not an advertising firm in Australia
capable of handling such a job? If not,
it is probably because any man capable
of such work has gone abroad in disgust
after failing to get recognition in this
country. If such organisations as the very
expensive A.N.T.A. would do a little
more to encourage the local man, maybe
costly trips abroad for officials and costly
purchasings of “clever ideas” would not
be necessary.— lchabod (N.S.W.).
Stupid Prophesying
The emphasis of certainty given to
prophecies of all sorts makes me smile.
“Emperus” (B. 14/6/’39) said “War
and strife always have been with us, and
always will be.” Why? Present and past
history may-give him some justification
for his statement, and there may always
be war, but that war and strife always
have existed does not necessarily mean
that they always will Slavery lasted a
long time, and it was often affirmed that
it would last for ever. Did it?
The same sort of thing is encountered
in the sporting world. Of cricketers,
footballers and other athletes it is loudly
asserted that their performances will
never be equalled. An admirer of a New
South Wales Rugby League footballer
recently had “no hesitation in saying that
Blank has established a football record
that has never been equalled and never
will be equalled.” Maybe.
The growth of knowledge and the in-
creasing application of science may even-
tually facilitate the accomplishment of
what now seem to be impossibilities.
Something has been attempted and some-
thing done, but to say that any standards
will never be equalled or surpassed is
both needless and absurd.
No one can foretell definitely what the
future will bring, but it seems that the
world is due to undergo some great
changes, so let’s hope for the best, with-
out indulging in Cocksure prophecies.—
Keith Ross (N.S.W.).
Horse Sense
Tell me why so many men follow
the gee-gees. Thousands of fellows who
have never been on a racecourse study
form, buy tips, read astrologers’ pro-
phecies, listen to special tipsters’ broad-
casts and do little else but talk horses.
The pub on Saturday afternoon is
crowded with chaps listening to race
broadcasts as they swill their beer. When
the race is over it’s prices and bets for the
next race. At the football match they have
to hang out the winners’ names for the
multitude—and the prices must go up
too. The bus-driver has to instal a wire-
less so that his passengers won’t miss a
race. At the shop it’s tipping competi-
tions, sweeps, doubles and more and
more and still more horsy chatter.
The s.p. man is even helped by the
Government. Another fellow is able to
hire a special telephone line on racedays
to supply an uninterrupted flow of prices.
Even John Hop follows the bookie, and
has a look at the price list.
Why this craze for horseracing and
its associations, legal or otherwise?
Is it that old stunt of wanting a lot for
a little? Is it love of gambling? Or
is it just darn tommyrot —mad squander-
ing of hard-earned money for the thrill
of “showing a profit”?
One thing is obvious. The Australian
will eventually evolve into a horse—he
has a long face already.— Lar Phap
(Vic.).
B.H.P. and Molotov
If 8.H.P., an Australian firm employ-
ing Australian labor, wishes to export
iron, etc., to Japan, local Communists,
carrying out the policy of Moscow, do
all in their power to prevent it, Japan
being branded as an aggressor. Molotov,
recently outlining the Soviet’s foreign
policy, branded Germany and Italy as
aggressors and potential enemies, and in
the same speech stated that trade talks
with the former would continue.
According to Lenin, people who help
to arm their enemies for profit are capi-
talists! —B. Linkerzoff (N.S.W.).
Book Censorship
In a long overdue effort towards
liberalising book censorship, the new
Minister for Customs has hit upon the
ingenious plan of dividing books into
three classes—those obviously admissible,
those obviously not and the “doubt-
fuls.” The third class .must be referred
to the Minister for Morals, who person-
ally will decide whether or not they shall
be passed.
If this is liberalising, it gets nowhere.
It seems that we are back where we
started, and a single individual is still to
decide what we are to be allowed to
read. Books may only be barred if they
are indecent, seditious or criminal, so the
censor is evidently going to set himself
up as a kind of martyr, holding the public
fort against the onslaught of corruption.
A Maoriland Judge recently ruled that
Decameron is not an indecent publica-
tion. True, there are-parts of it that one
would not wish to place in infant hands,
but that is equally true of Shakspeare
or the Bible. Actually, for any one
man to attempt to define moral'behavior
for the masses is to set up a most repug-
nant form of bureaucracy.
If a book impinges the proprieties it
should be placed on trial and judged on
the evidence of its pages by a jury rep-
resentative of all classes of readers. At
present we have the Gilbertian situation
of a book being banned by one indi-
vidual or set of individuals and subse-
quently “acquitted” by another.
An author puts too much work into
a book to have it condemned out of hand
by somebody who, however discriminat-
ing, cannot be expected correctly to in-
terpret the other fellow’s mind, particu-
larly on moral issues.— Celt (N.S.W.).
So “Alma” (B. 24/4/’39) would wel-
come increased power for the censors?
He would approve of this Government-
appointed and mainly quite inept group
deciding for us not only what is “smutty”
and “too hair-raisingly bloodcurdling,”
but also what is “obviously fatuous.”
Surely “Alma” has seen past examples
of just how fatuous the censors them-
selves can be, seen outstanding literary
achievements branded • “smutty,” and as
such denied an appreciative public.
Assuming that he has, what reason can
he advance for supposing that works of
similar merit would not, equally fatu-
ously, be branded “fatuous”? Freedom
of the press is certainly abused, and so
is any laxity in the laws governing ob-
scenity in literature and films, but neither
abuse is so nationally calamitous as a
stifling of thought. And no mind-train-
ing that relies on the suppression of
temptation and the imposition of rigid
direction is worth a gelatine cape in a
cloudburst. It may survive the sunshine
but it won’t survive the rain. —T. L. W.
(Vic.).
“Fun and Diversion”
William Lynch (B. 31/5/’39) has
obviously never played much football.
Where 30-odd trained men are urged on
by their respective “barrackers,” who are
sometimes scarcely able to control their
emotions, it is inevitable that a little fric-
tion should sometimes occur. That these
“squabbles” should receive undue prom-
inence from newspapers is unfortunate.
Country football in Tasmania is “fun
and diversion,” and is made possible only
by the enthusiasm of the players. One
player in our club who earns £2 10s.
per day was asked if he would lose half
a day to play football. He replied he
was willing to lose 1 a week. That is only
one example.
The average footballer here strives to
win an imaginary laurel wreath. That
he should reject a real one proffered him
is merely modesty.— Enen (Tas.).
A Job for the O.F.M.
Every new labor-saving device throws
more erstwhile workers on the industrial
scrapheap. As mechanisation increases
so must unemployment. In solving the
problem of scarcity, science has created
the problem of distribution. The ques-
tion seems to be whether to scrap the
machines or bring our economic system
up to date.
President Roosevelt and others would
revert to scarcity without scrapping the
machines. This is obviously not the
answer.
Here, then, is a worth-while task for
the other fellow’s mind, for the solution
to the problem will also be the solution
to most of our other troubles. The
menace of Communism, of war, of a
declining birthrate, of s.p. bookies and
the like will soon vanish when all are
full-time consumers. —P. T. O. (Vic.).
The Bush
Having reached the “fair, fat and
forty” stage, and having spent the first
25 years in the city and the last 15 out
west, I claim to have a fair knowledge of
the conditions of bfbth places.
It astonishes me to find nearly all the
parents with whom I come in contact
striving to educate their sons to be
“something in the city.”
Why do all these people think that the
lot of the average young man in the city


is so much more desirable than that of
the average young man in the bush?
As the wife of a selector, I have experi-
enced many ups and downs —mostly
downs, I think —bdt I still believe that we
have had as much happiness and freedom
from worry as the average family living
on a small income in the city. A young-
ster working in the west on a station or
out with a droving plant earns a good
salary, board and lodging thrown in. At
the end of a year he has enough for a
“spree” to the coast. If he works for
some years without a spell, as many do,
he will have sufficient to put into some-
thing on his own account.
Since the coming of the radio and
motor-car the life outback is greatly im-
proved —the radio brightens our even-
ings, and the station lorry or the boss’s
car is there to take us to the local fes-
tivities.
The Andy and Ma pictures give us a
good laugh each week. But don’t forget
the hundreds of comfortable, well-ordered
homes in the west where, after a pleasant
evening spent over a game of cards or
listening to a wireless broadcast, we go
to bed to waken to the call of the mag-
pie and the dust and excitement of the
horse-yard, rather than to the clang of
trams and the crowded buses to which the
aforesaid parents are hurrying their sons
as fast as they can get them there!
W. R. D. (Q.).
Overworked Words and Phrases
We all know the men and women who
have their pet phrases and use them
over and over again, heedless of the effect
such repetition has upon the nerves of
their listeners.
There is the man who says “By the
way” every five minutes without regard
to the fact that the topic it introduces
isn’t by the way at all.
There is the woman who says “Just
fancy!” until her friends are in a ner-
vous fever. It is her comment on all
events, great or small, grave or gay. If
she fell from an aeroplane her acquaint-
ances believe she would have nothing
more forcible than “Just fancy!” at
hand to express her feelings as she de-
scended.
The people who say “Don’t you
know?” at short intervals are legion.
Many of them do not even know that
they use this unmeaning interrogation.
Then there are the men and women
who delight in denouncing happenings as
“chronic” when they don’t mean to imply
that they are so. What they intend to
convey is that such and such a thing was
annoying, or disappointing, or very bad.
Thus, we hear them assert that the tea
partaken of was “chronic,” or that the
weather was “chronic” or that some-
body’s dress was “chronic.”
There are dozens of vagaries of speech
to add to those given here ; almost every
individual who is at all individual has
some pet word or set of words that he
or she wears threadbare. Felicity
(N.S.W.).
“The Farmer’s Daughter”
Tell “E. 0.5.” (B. 31/5/’39) that he
needn’t fear that Australian farm folk
may degenerate into a “crude peasantry,”
for though our brightest and cleverest
girls do leave the farm we get bright
girls from other country districts and
an excellent type of city girl in exchange.
Of the post-war brides in this neighbor-
hood, there have been four teachers (two
of whom were ’Varsity girls), two book-
keepers (one a topnotcher), four dress-
makers, a musician, three shop (drapery)
assistants and three farmers’ daughters
who had never known any life but the
farm —a fine intelligent type nevertheless.
Still, of the brides who gave up a job
to marry only three, the musician and
two of the shopgirls, were not farmers’
daughters.
Certainly I won’t say our district is
typical, but it is by no means exceptional,
for of the 12 schoolmistresses we have
had nine are now wives of men on the
land. Of course, these girls have not
married “hicks,” There aren’t so many
“hicks” about, and those country girls
who frequently class the local boys as
“hicks” are the dress-mad, dance-mad,
boy-mad, film-mad creatures who take
their standards from the catchpenny
superficialities of radio and the flapper
press.— Fancar (Q.).
Dogs Have Preference
The registration of dogs and child-
births is compulsory. A certificate of
registration is issued in connection with
the dog, but for the child in S.A. at least
the authorities issue no receipt or birth
certificate except at a fee. Recently an
overseas wedding was held up and the
’groom put to considerable expense and
inconvenience because of an incorrect
entry on a birth certificate. An Adelaide
man who some time ago “purchased” his
birth certificate for lodge-initiation pur-
poses found himself wrongly registered
as a female. He was a married man with
four children. More expense and incon-
venience to have his “sex changed.”
Surely the Governments which are
agitating for an increased birthrate could
welcome new arrivals with a free certifi-
cate of birth! This would enable regis-
tration errors to be rectified immediately
as well as saving trouble and delay in
after years when a birth certificate may
be required.— Chalk (S.A.).
No Outback “Inspections”
M.L. Prime Minister Savage has spent
several months inspecting factories
around the principal towns of both
Islands. He is very pleased with what he
has seen. Industry is going ahead by
leaps and bounds —increase in local pro-
duction is amazing. Mr. Savage is elated.
It is a pity that the Prime Minister and
some of his Ministers do not have a
little time on their hands to inspect, for
a change, the farms outback —especially
second- and third-class sheep country.
What a different story it would be!
Scrub, ragwort, gorse and blackberry in-
creasing enormously; fences in a sorry
state of disrepair, and many holdings
abandoned. M.L. sheep-farmers have
never been in a worse plight. If the Gov-
ernment does not very soon devote more
attention to farmers’ problems many of
the factories will have to close or reduce
output through lack of raw material.
M.L.’s wealth comes from the soil, though
Labor won’t admit it.—O. W. W. (M.L.).
“Waltzing Matilda”—to “Swing”
I switched on my wireless recently
and heard “Waltzing Matilda” an-
nounced. Memories of Henry Lawson
and co. were banished when an Ameri-
can hillbilly band gushed the song forth
in the latest blustering style.
It’s a pity that we Australians are so
apathetic towards our own music. We
have recognised our poets and novelists,
and it’s about time we gave our musicians
some encouragement. Even “Waltzing
Matilda” has a national flavor, and yet
how many musical programmes or com-
munity concerts contain even 5 per cent,
of Australian music? The quantity is cer-
tainly not great yet. When the musical
public loses its bias I’m sure the supply
will easily meet the demand. —R. E.
Davies (N.S.W.).
The Party or the State?
Impartial observers cannot but be dis-
turbed with the lack of national thinking
evident in Australia to-day, particularly
in the Leftist group. The parish-pump
type of mind appears to predominate
both in the political and industrial wings,
as witness the decision of the A.C.T.U.
to sabotage the man-power register and
the opposition to the measure in the
House by the political representatives of
unions.
This type of mind sees a nigger in every
woodpile. A few moments’ reflection
should be sufficient to show them that, by
flouting constitutional law, they are help-
ing towards the establishment of the very
thing they declare is prompting the regis-
ter —Fascism.
The Leftist party in the national
Parliament sees fit to oppose every
measure brought down by the Govern-
ment, good, bad or indifferent, for the
sake of opposing. All are for the party
and none are for the State.
Unless all parties can sink petty dif-
ferences and pull together to place Aus-
tralia in a reasonably secure state, the
respect of constitutional authority is in
grave danger of being undermined and
the way made easy for a swing either to
the extreme Left or Right.—G. W. Lilley
(C.Q.).
Children and Sex
“Judith” (B. 7/6/’39) ■ pleads for
parents to educate their children “in the
important subject of sex.” She made out
a fair case, but overlooked the fact that
many parents themselves could do with
a primary course in what the late D. H.
Lawrence called “the dirty little secret.
Themselves emotionally botched and
crammed with fixations and complexes,
a number of married couples are not fit
and proper persons to pass on “the facts
of life.” Give them a chunk of Havelock
Ellis or a little Freud and they would call
in the police.
Until people resolve their own conflicts
on this vexed question, it is useless to
expect them to help their offspring. Con-
sider the numerous fathers who watch
over their daughters, pry into their every
move ; think of the mothers who are full
of fear-complexes and anxiety-feelings
about their sons and daughters. This is
often mistaken for parental devotion, ye
anyone with only a smattering of modern
psychology knows that these feaitul
parents with such an ostentatious show
of solicitude for the family’s moral wel-
fare are simply projecting their own dif-
ficulties and repressions on to the young-
sters. I’ll plump for the parent who
can call a spade a spade rather than an
agricultural implement. In sex matters
so many stern fathers taboo the subject
in the home or touch on it only vaguely.
The erotomania of the flapper press,
with its emphasis on romance, would have
no compelling attraction for so many
youngsters if the home background gave
a sensible outlet for their natural curios-
ity—a curiosity which has to be subli-
mated in absorbing the printed mush.
Putting many of the cheap what-you-
ought-to-know-about-sex books in the
hands of the family does not help; it
can be a very real danger. Either it
makes the youngsters casual or increases
their conflict over adolescent difficulties.
Then there are those folks—very often
spinsters—who write-up the subject in a
“nice” way, so clean and completely de-
sexed. All about the beautiful loves of
the flowers and the bees ’n’ everything.
It is little wonder there is a pretty decent
shock in store for youngsters who are
fed on this rubbish.
Until parents can face up to the sub-
ject themselves, I fear most of the kids
will still draw on the old reference
sources —the kid next door or the infor-
mative cobber with the store of “blue
yarns,” or personal research in the Bible
during an idle hour at Sunday school.
C. H. (Vic.).
Putting It to the Pat
If you can’t, as some assert, tell mar-
garine from butter without a label, what’s
the difference? It may seem illogical
for the Commonwealth to send vast
quantities of butter half round the world
and use a substitute at home. But com-
plaints about the growing use of mar-
garine leave the consumer cold when he
thinks of butter prices here and overseas.
At the moment butter is Is. Bd. a pound
in Sydney (at least, that is what I pay). In
London Australian butter runs just now
about Is. a pound. Sometimes it’s
cheaper; at the moment it may be a
little dearer.
Even if you add the 25 p.c. exchange
N.S.W. butter is permanently cheaper in
London than in Sydney. In fact, I once
thought of making some money by buy-
ing our butter there and shipping it to
Australia, but I suppose that it wouldn’t
be allowed. When you think of Maoriland
cheese at lid. a pound in London and of
Is. Bd. a pound for cheese in Sydney,
you begin to look forward to some kind
of margarine for cheese. It seems ob-
vious that if the price of butter at home
retains its present ratio to the overseas
price the use of margarine will grow.—
Meteora (N.S.W.).
Advertising, Bad and Good
I hate the type of advertising which
suggests that we are all slinking about
whispering about Enid’s unpleasant
aroma and why Tom didn’t marry Elsie,
and, more imbecile still, agreeing that
it is all entirely due, not to a lack of
cleanliness, but to the use of the wrong
soap or toothpaste. I cherished that
hatred in silence until to-day,. when I
found an ad. which I regard as the ulti-
mate record in bad taste and vulgarity.
I found it in an American magazine
of high quality. It was soap again, and
told of a poor creature’s sad experiences,
her utter social failure, her humiliating
ostracism at her club and her final creep-
ing home in shame and despair. She had
used the wrong soap, of course, but the
offence this time was unforgivable.
Radio advertising shows lack of intelli-
gence, and the use of a very mistaken
psychology, in its constant over-repeti-
tion and overemphasis. This, no doubt,
is looked on by the advertiser as ham-
mering facts home to the public; but
when the “fact” in the first place
happens to be quite untrue, its continu-
ous reiteration is nerve-racking and
irritating, and before long it induces real
hostility to the product thus boosted.
Even the truth hammered home too often
and too loudly would have much the
same effect.
If someone should ask what on earth
I want in advertising, let me say that I
consider the gin advertisement on the
back of a recent issue of The Bulletin
to be a good ad. It soberly and calmly
states a fact that needs to be stated, and
by its soundness and its own expression
of goodwill evokes goodwill in the
reader. To do that is the true aim and
object of advertising, but it seems to be
.forgotten now and then. — Anither (Q.).
Respect Our Fellows
The old proverb about a prophet hav-
ing no honor in his own country is es-
pecially applicable to Australia.
A friend of mine is fond of declaring
that there is no one here with a voice that
is noteworthy. Melba, he graciously ad-
mits, was an exception ; but, as for all
the others, past and present—they are
merely vocalists. His viewpoint is by
no means an isolated one.
The word “imported” has a fascina-
tion for many people. Some men will
not buy hats that are made in Australia.
Others regard it as essential to have an
overcoat that came from Savile-row.
Apparently they regard our own local
hatters and tailors as not being able to
develop “style.”
Mention that the manufacture of aero-
planes is contemplated here, and imme-
diately someone makes the jest: “You
won’t get me to go up in an Australian
’plane!” An Australian is ill-advised to
open a fish-shop or to become a fruiterer
if there are Greeks or Italians in the dis-
trict With similar businesses. People
simply do not believe that one of their
own countrymen can successfully man-
age a fish-shop, or a fruit-shop either.
Our housewives will flock to the shop of
a European who perhaps can barely
make himself understood in English, and
whose profits probably go to the support
of his relatives in his homeland.
Australians have proved time and time
again that they can compete successfully
with people from overseas in every
sphere of life. It is up to Australians to
help and respect their fellow-Australians.
—Australiana (Vic.).
Our Need for Migrants
“C.A.B.’s” remarks on refugees (B.
10/5/’39) certainly illustrate his own
point that “there is a lot of talked
on the subject of immigration.” He
claims that Australia needs immigrants
who are “land-hungry,” and that there-
fore we should reject city-bred refugees.
Fifty years ago this view would have
been correct; to-day it is definitely out
of step with the times. The last big in-
flux of immigrants, who were all settled
on the land under costly “group”
schemes, proved a failure, its net result
apart from the financial loss —being to
displace Australians already on the land.
Since' then our overseas markets have
dwindled, while labor-saving devices have
increased ; therefore in this country, as in
U.S.A., the agricultural population is
necessarily decreasing. Our great need
now is to build up efficient secondary
industries whose workers will form a
home market for much of the produce
previously exported.
What advantage can be gained by im-
porting “land-hungry” peasants from
Southern Europe —we won’t get them
from anywhere else —to displace Austra-
lian orchardists and farmers and form
foreign-speaking communities? Refugees,
on the other hand, are skilled in many
of the industries we are endeavoring to
establish ; they are leaving their home
countries, not because they are economi-
cally useless, but for the sake of their
children and because of religious, racial
and political prejudice which we all really
agree is absurd. Settling in the cities,
they will mix readily with us, quickly
learn our language, assimilate our ways
of living ; allowed to settle in the country
in groups, they might not do so.
Finally, we do need more people in
this huge continent, if only to answer the
criticisms of overpopulated countries.
British migration being out of the ques-
tion so far as large numbers are con-
cerned, we should consider ourselves for-
tunate’to receive other Northern Euro-
peans instead of Albanians, Italians and
Macedonians.— Wusslean (Vic..)
Literary Style
Recently, at a place where writers for-
gather, the charge was levelled at The
Bulletin that, whereas it has done valu-
able work for Australian letters and art,
it will not stamp its official imprimatur
upon any work that is not in the strict
Bulletin tradition. To be a successful
Bulletin writer, it was said, is to be
a failure everywhere else, meaning that
one has first to develop a Bulletin
mentality as an essential to success with
that journal.
Somebody present put a damper on
this argument by mentioning a few Bul-
letin writers whose work commands
world-wide renown, indicating that the
general standard set by the journal is
fairly representative of what good draw-
ing and writing should be.
Opinions vary on the point of what
constitutes a good story or drawing, and
I suppose The Bulletin is entitled to
an opinion of its own, but it might not be
inappropriate to request The Bulletin
to express its opinion in this column. —
T. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-Order
blanket bale
POST
FREE
See what Salvage Stor
Blanket Bale comprising: 2
Cream Double-bed Blankets.
o Heavy-quality Linen-finish?d
Double-bed Sheets, size 90 x
g 0 Guaranteed 5 years of
wear. 1 Continental-designed
Silk' Interwoven Bedspread,
Double-bed size. 2 Handy-size
Coloured Bath Towels. 1 Lar
size Admiralty Bath Towel.
Super-quality Linen-finished
Pillow Cases (large size).
Forward Postal Notes, Money
Orders or Cheques to the value
of ONLY 35/-
SaL\*AGE STORES
SYDNEY
to secure this Super Bargain Bale.
MAIL ORDER DEPAR'
SALVAGE STORES,
36 YORK ST.,
SYDNEY.
THE START OF AN
UGLY BALD PATCH
can be arrested by the timely help of
“TASSAN” Reg.
HOME TREATMENT.
Use it in your own home and
WATCH YOUR HAIR GROW!
Join the ranks of satisfied clients.
Send £l/2/- now for SIX MONTHS’ supply.
MISS DICKISON,
Sydney’s Only Baldness Specialist,
903 Commonwealth Savings Hank Building,
14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Established 1912. ’Phone: 82253.
Artillery Timber Splitting Gun
i.kW
95 per cent,
labour saving
over wedge
driving. Driven
into timber
without boring.
No shattering
of timber. Uses
blasting
powder a n d
fuse. Av. cost
2d. shot. Steel
Gun is lain,
diarn. 18in. long.
Price 35/
Postage: N.S.W. 2/-, Vic.
and Q’land 3/6. Elsewhere
(Add exchange ).
MALRIC CO., 161 River St., Earlwood, SYDNEY
WINCHHUR
SKATES
12/6-18/6
m
m Cowles
7 and DUNN 'ZZZ'
71 KINO STREET, SYDNEY
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
I 3 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
TILLEY LAMPS
sdf
SOO Candle Power. British Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on li pint-
of kerosene. Mantles tied botli
ends. Will not shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX.GIobes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, maj
be uxu as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height' 19 inches.
PJRICE, 50/- Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vase and Other
Lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
YV. Kopsen & Co. Fty., Ltd.,
70 Clarence Street, Sydney.
“BIG SIX”
CSS3
OC®
battery
Most economical and efficient;
governs 25 miles of fencing,
works from a safe 6-volt Bat-
tery, and has several features
not found in any other make.
Start with the best, it costs no
more than the other kind.
Write for descriptive leaflet.
Single Wire Fence Co.,
189 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC
FENCE
CHARGER
BANJO MANDOLINS
50/- only
FREE TUITION
An opportunity of a lifetime to acquire
a handsome mahogany professional
model. You will soon be able to play
and entertain your friends. FREE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE AND
BEAUTIFUL, CASE AUSO FREE. Full
money returnable within seven days if
dissatisfied. Order to-day. Terms are
10/- with order and 10/- monthly.
TALKERIES
Q.V. Bldgs., 451 George St., Sydney.
THE HANOMAG DIESEL
TRACTOR
a
Oi
fuel.
The most
e c onomical
DEMCO
CO. Pty., ]
243 Cleveland .St.,
Redfern, N.S.W.
355 William St.,
West Melbourne, Vie.
deaf:
New Invention —The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. & G. Building. Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN’’
takes your fancy, write to the MANAGER,
who will quote you price for the original.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
% _
TO “THE BULLETIN”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(.Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
LUMBER SHIRTS
EACH 3/1 1 EACH
These well-made
CHECK WINTER
LUMBER SHIRTS
usually sell at 7/C
each. Special to
“Bulletin” readers
3/11 Postage 6d.
extra anywhere.
When writing
please state neck
measurement.
P. &L.
TRADING CO.
250 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
sdf
TENNIS BALLS, 10/6
Guaranteed first quality, full comr- Dozen,
.ression, best quality covers, factory
resh (no rejects). Made by one of Australia s
ading manufacturers, but unbranded. Usually
17/6 dozen. To clear at 10/6 dozen..
Postage 1/- on any quantity.
GOLF BALLS, 18/-
Walter Hagen, assorted 3/6 and 3/- Dozen,
quality. Hit a few times for testing
purposes but unmarked and guaranteed first-
class condition.
As there is a limited quantity of these balls you
are advised to order early. Obtainable from:
N.S.W. Sports Store Pty., Ltd.,
26 Martin Place, Sydney.
Alan Ivippax, Jack Crawford, Directors.
STOPvour Rupture
comfort.
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/'3B
says:—•
“I order your appliances for my
patients because 1 consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
->l4 DAYS FREE TRIAL*
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27). 84 Pitt Street. Sydney.
TARZAN S GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
and parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tarzan’s Grip Manufacturing
Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Willoughby Road,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES, 1/-
sd
HORSE RUGS
Made from first-quality cotton
duck with adjustable leather
leg strap, grey wool lined and
water resisting.
Waterproof Green JL>uck
sft. 6in. sft. 9in
33/-
6ft.
35/-
COTTON
38/3
30/6
Felt Lined
31/-
6ft. 6in.
37/-
DFCE
29/-
32/6
4/6 Extra.
Freight Free in N.S.W,
NEWMARKET
SADDLERY,
-20 WILSON ST., NEWTOWN, N.S.W
Send
for
Saddler/
Cata-
logue.
IICWT. TOMATOES
FROM ONE VINE!
Mr. E. W. Sawyer, of
Broomehill, W.A., writes:
“Enclosed is a snap of
a CLIMBING TOMATO
grown from one of your
seeds. 121 feet, JUST
OVER THE GUTTERING
OF THE HOUSE. The
yield of the plant has
already been OVER 1151 b.,
and there is still ANOTHER 601 b. on the
vine. Some of the tomatoes weighed 140 z.”
Sow Now. 2/6 packet, posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 17a Pitt St., Sydney
fsd
TeM, toil Month
Write for Booklet
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible —
No wires—No batter'cs
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting room'-,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Suite 601 K, City Mutual
Building, cnr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
permits you to
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
5?
BLANKET BALE
2 Heavy Genuine “OSHKOSH” Hygieni-
cally-wrapped, winter-weight SHEETS,
guaranteed 5 years. Size 54 x 90, and
no seams.
2 English Colored Towels, absorbent and
soft.
2 Full-size Quality White Pillow Cases.
2 Blankets, thick and warm.
1 Gorgeous Silk INTERWOVEN, Eastern
Design, Brocade Bedspread, 50 x 70, in
shades of Vieux Rose, Blue, Cream,
Green or Gold (state color).
The Above Bale 21/-, Post Free,
FREE —with this Bale 1 Barge Beautifully-
colored BUNGALOW CLOTH.
STERNS STERNS
200 Z GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
30/- Value
for 17/6
Gold-mounted “Barling.” Special price to
“Bulletin” Headers 1 f »
Genuine Meerschaum, handsomely packed,
contained in its own case 1~/(>
HONBSTRY WORTH 30/-.
Write for Pipe illustrations.
Send 6s. in stamps for liberal sample of “Levys-
own” Quality Tobacco 'at 7/- lb. Worth 10/- lb.
For cigarette or pipe. Goods s&nt C.O.D. if desired.
SOL LEVY
TOBACCONIST,
est. 38 years.
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
22
AMPLI
HOME POWER UNITS
lr l*ls6S 1 STRATTON
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator, with
everything a car
engine has.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
PRICE, £35/15/-
T) ’rite for comprehen-
sive Bulletin I Vo. 7.9.
AN Y WHE RE
ANYTIME
• For Home Lighting
• Battery Charging.
• Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
• Runs 12 hours on
Igal. of petrol.
,MPHON Ptn.Ud. 66Clarehce5t.Si|dneq
c
TRAVELLING! Here’s a
useful manicure set.
o
U 1
Fitted with Nail Clipper, Nail Scissor,
File and Tweezer, 21/6.
Write for illustrated catalogue of Presentation
Gifts.
PTV.
LTD.
W.JNO. BAKER
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BARKERS & BITERS
By Robert Kaleski
The Standard Australian Book on Dogs. 256 Pages (illustrated).
Price, 2/2 (post free).
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.. 252 GEORUE STREET, SYDNEY.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON 28/6/’39 (See Page 46)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with
your “Wants’’ to the Service
Department, “The
Office. Sy
Bvlle
Melbourne.


85.000 NEW HAIRS
df
fs
Great
■
Hair Treatments
WHAT I DISCOVERED ABOUT
HAIR.
It does not matter if your hair is falling-
out, if you are fast going- bald—or what
you have tried! I know you have not used
the RIGHT method ! My own hair fell out
in handfuls until I fast began to go bald.
I tried everything; but now I have a thick,
lustrous growth of hair thanks to the im-
portant discovery that -
Tonics Will Never Grow Hair
They never have because it is impossible!
There is one underlying principle that
stimulates New Hair Growth- that prin-
ciple is involved in the new Kelso Murchi-
son Treatment! It’s a new way—entirely
different, and successful. It approaches
baldness, falling hair, etc., from a new
angle. With it you can stop your hair
troubles overnight! Don’t waste more time
and money on worthless “tonics” and
“hair restorers”; but accept my great offer
and watch your hair grow! Get this special
offer coupon in the post to-day!
NOW YOU CAN TEST IT
YOURSELF!
JSJOW, you can test it yourself—try this
' famous treatment in your own home
—under any condition you like, and if it
doesn't grow lied' hair, rid you of dandruff
or any other hair trouble you suffer from
within 30 days it COSTS YOU NOTHING!
—not one penny! But you must hurry;
this offer may never be repeated, it places
you under no obligation; all you have to
do is to post that coupon NOW!
ACT AT ONCE!
This is your great
OPPORTUNITY.
NEW HAIR CAN BE GROWN.
AFTER 15 years the Murchison Method has
established a sound reputation in the special
sphere of work of banishing’ and Preventing
Baldness and the accompanying hair maladies.
The many hundreds of voluntary testimonials
from grateful users of this treatment sent from
all parts of the globe are more than adequate
proof of the efficacy of the Murchison Method.
|X one case treated recently, it was estimated
* that the treatment had grown fully 85,000 new
hairs in less than two months. The average head
of dark hair contains approximately 110.000 hairs,
the average head of fair hair 150,000- according
to European Baldness Specialists. In thiS case
the person using the treatment. was
.practically totally bald. In less than
two months lie had a head of strong
healthy hair—after being bald for 16
years! It will be seen therefore that
the estimate is well within the mark.
,
J. KELSO
Lombard Chambers
s AMAZING
ANOTHER 1500
TRIAL TREATMENTS
TO BE DISTRIBUTED TO
“BULLETIN” READERS.
Read this PROOF!
“You asked me to report in one month on your
treatment for the hair. The month isn’t quite up
yet, but it isn’t necessary to wait that long. I
could have told you after one application tkal
your treatment would certainly grow hair. 1 havt
used a lot of different ‘restorers’ in my time: v
but yours is the only one that I ever used that
I have had any faith in. You said it would cure
dandruff in one w r eek. Well, 1 can beat that
easily, as It cured my dandruff in one night
It has completely changed the colour of my hair.
It has turned it from its dry. dead, straw- looking
colour back to its original shade of brown, and
now, after about three weeks’ use, I have a lot
of new hair growing al\ fiver my head. It s
growing like wildfire. 1 might, mention that 1
never gave your treatment a very fair go, either.
E. J. REYNOLDS, M., Vic.
WONDERFUL RESULTS.
“I have been using your hair treatment for one
month. Vyith wonderful results. My hair is no
longer thin and scraggy. It lias stopped falling
out. and all the dandruff has disappeared, also
the itchy scalp. Where it used to be short and
thin, it has grown touch longer and thicker. My
hair seems as though it lias new life in it, thanks
to vou. I think your course wonderful, and so
to 10.” juss DAtj 5 K . s . w .
RipThjsouh-and POSIT
T 7 J. KELSO MURCHISON, Dept. L,
17” Lombard Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
/
| j NAME .........
ADDRESS
, 2S/6/’3&
Iff
If
Free Book
on
Drawing
For You!
Use Coupon
Below!
HURRY
COUPON
ALONG
AT
ONCE.
Become an EXPERT ARTIST, Quickly!
Brodie Mack’s Amazing FREE BOOK Offer to all “Bulletin”
Readers with the Inclination to Learn Sketching.
Let BRODIE MACK Make Money in Your Spare Time.
Teach You At Home.
This Book will amaze you with its
possibilities and the vast field it
opens up to you. At last you will
be able to learn all branches of the
black-and-white art under the
supervision of Brodie Mack. This
amazing short-cut method simplifies
art. You learn at home. If you
have an inclination for drawing, an
inclination that many of us possess,
then why compete with the crowd
in ordinary occupations? Brodie
Mack can develop your ability for
this fascinating accomplishment.
Thousands of pounds are paid every
year for drawings, fashion illus-
trations, advertising catalogues,
pamphlets, books, comic strips,
cartoons, etc. Many have developed
this fascinating hobby into a highly
remunerative profession, em-
bracing magnificent opportunities
to those people possessed of the
enterprise to lift themselves out of the
bundy-punching ruck of mediocrity
and the dull, drab monotony of
factory, shop or office routine; in
addition to its lucrative achieve-
ments, it will lift you from com-
parative obscurity to a position of
importance in the public life of the
community.
What This FREE Book
Tells You!
O How to Draw Figrures.
• How to Become an Artist.
• How to Make Money in Your Spare Time.
• How to Develop Patent Ability.
Q How to Cartoon.
• How to Caricature.
• How to Sell Your Work.
• How to Illustrate for the Papers.
• How to Sketch and Draw.
• Send for this FREE Book TO-DAY I
p
'OR a limited time Brodie Mack, famous Australian black-and-wl
. . < • i _ .i_ «u nr~ o_
V a nullicu UHIC UI -
i ing, absolutely FREE, a copy of his new book, “How To Be An Artist,
readers of “The Bulletin” who have an inclination, to draw.
i offer-
’ to &!!
Brodie Mack has made it possible by means
of this remarkable course for you to earn
money in your spare hours. He shows you
how to “cash in” on his experience. He
teaches you how to rapidly develop your
latent ability so that you are able to produce
striking illustrations and art work. The fact
of you reading this announcement points to
you having a desire to be an artist —then
send for this amazing book and let us prove
that we can make you a skilled artist.
LEARN TO SKETCH
This Easy, Rapid Way.
Brodie Mack has taught hundreds of men
and women how to draw by easy natural
stages from the simple outline to the finished
drawing—the drawings that bring in good
£s. d. Brodie Mack can teach you to draw
by post successfully; the letters Mr. Mack
receives daily are ample proof of this. Many
famous illustrators learnt this way—they were
not horn famous. This is your opportunity
to become a real artist capable of making
faithful sketches that will surprise your
friends, delight yourself, and take you out of
the small-pay drudgery job. This is
opportunity —are you going to pass it by;
Then get that coupon into the mail—this moment. NOW!
“HOW TO BE AN
ARTIST” IS FREE!
Never before has a book of this
nature been offered free; that is why
you should send for your copy now.
This brand-new book shows you
how to draw—develop your talent-
how to cartoon, the secret of illus-
trating, and how money can be
made even while learning. Fill in
your coupon and get it into the post
now — at once, before you forget.
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School
DESK 43, 107 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
This Book
is Free to
YOU!
v '■
Aftl* 1
loW*"
»ODl«
;> . •
P-
: v Ko>
•*U C VCc«« 8 f > “
of Ar»
UiWJW 1 *
FREE BOOK COUPON—POST NOW!
The Brodie Mack Correspondence Art School,
Desk 43, 107 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Dear Sir, —Please send me FREE and without
obligation my copy of your famous book, '‘How To
Be An Artist.” 1 enclose 2d. in stamps to defray
postage.
Name
Address
2B/6/’39
