

l ~ ""
a*k s
1
SSSS
TH
//
a
HO
//
W*
std"
V'neJM
h 1
W ; ::H
fy--
1111 liliiiilfi |M| < §
!
■R- '
fSRRR'I
Miss Adrienne Parkes, talented
artist who signs her work with a
flower, gives us this impression of
her favourite phrase, "No, thanks.
I'd rather have a Red Capstan
V
j
/
It's always time for a Capstan Special Mild in the RED Pack
10 for 6d. -20 for 1/- - - - Also flat and round fifties and hundreds 286 . 8 .<,
The Bulletin
One Week of War
Vol. 60.—N0. 3109.
Wednesday, September 13, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
ran
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free 16pp. Illustrated
Penmanship Prospectus explaining your Muscular Movement System of
Writing, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 139 .
The Red Page
THREE INGENIOUS PLAYS.
The most noteworthy characteristic of Hugh Ross
Williamson’s play sequence, The Seven Deadly Virtues,
In a Glass Darkly and Various Heavens (Constable),
is their extreme eclecticism. Socially, politically and
even technically, they contrive to face in all directions
at once. The ambidextrous Mr. Williamson displays
himself as both conventionally rebellious and rebel-
liously conventional. It is only fair to admit that he
is equally entertaining with either hand.
The sequence is very loosely held together. It
is only a sequence because it concerns two families,
the Meldreths and the Braffertons, and their friends.
Francis Meldreth is the central figure of The Seven
Deadly Virtues and appears as uncle or commentator
in the other two.
The Seven Deadly Virtues is a biography in 10
scenes. It begins in a suburban railway carriage in
which seven worthy citizens, each representing one
of the virtues —in the manner of the old comedy of
humors—accompany Francis to town. The discussion
reveals seven different attitudes to life, each claiming
to be the whole truth. In a quick run of inset scenes
Francis sees how each of the virtues, Obedience,
Honor, Chastity, Patriotism, Justice, Truth and Duty,
has influenced or will influence his life harmfully.
He sees himself —like a drowning man—crushed by
the too-stern obedience of his children, subjected to
the idiotic honor code of his school, betrayed by the
coldness of his fiancee, trapped by patriotism into
denouncing his best friend as a spy, subverting justice
within its own forms, exposed to crippling truth under
psychoanalysis, and finally penalised by his daughter’s
self-sacrificing sense of duty.
The paradox arises in Meldreth himself. He is
presented both as the man conquered by life, who
has taken the count seven times, and as the victor,
the man who has emerged from life as a philosopher,
safe at last within himself from all the slings and
arrows. On close inspection this philosophy proves
to be no more than disillusionment in all things and
a profound distrust of all labels. The tearing down
of convention goes merrily ahead, but when it is done
nothing but a vacuum remains. The seven virtues
are neatly woven in with Shakspeare’s seven ages of
man, a stroke which, though neatly done, further
cramps the play.
In a Glass Darkly —of which the stage setting is a
blackout with a succession of little bright scenes
punched in it —is in the same vein. John Hampton,
a young man, friend and protege of Meldreth, is
left a large fortune by his father “on condition that
he puts it to the best use.” He sets out to discover
the best use. His friends all advise him differently.
He samples art, politics, social betterment, straight
philanthropy, scholarship, religion, and finds all
equally futile. In each he discovers the snag and
nothing but the snag. Each “case” is presented with
careful impartiality, and abandoned. In the end John
endows a chair for Central African dialects in a pro-
vincial university, endows a purity campaign, gives
up the girl he loves for a suitable match and “settles
down” amid the plaudits of his friends. The whole
action is ingeniously worked—by means of inset scenes
—into a performance of “Hamlet,” whose lines act as
commentary. Again the dramatist is circumvented
by his own machinery.
It is in the third play, Various Heavens, that
Williamson’s talent comes fully to light, for this is
a straight piece. It is a discussion play, pure and
simple. Meldreth’s niece Beatrice is in love with
Richard Brafferton, a penniless young man 13 years
younger than herself. Their affair goes its inevitably
stormy way and they part, Richard to marry Mel-
Qieths 20-year-old daughter Joan, Beatrice to seek
the consolations of religion and of her work as a
novelist.
When the play begins they have met again and
the old infatuation has revived. The rights and
wrongs of the situation are argued at great length
by the three people concerned, with Meldreth on one
side representing the world and the Rev. Michael Bute
on the other representing the church. Having made
out what appears to be a convincing case for love
Beatrice decides to do the conventionally proper thing,
sends Richard back to his wife and buries herself
in work. When everything is pulled down there re-
mains only the anti-climax of return to the stereotyped
path.
Mountains and Mongols.
Karavan, by Nils Ambolt (Blackie; Angus and
Robertson), is illustrated with extremely good photo-
graphs ; a few in color to show the richness of Mon-
golian costumes, but the best of them plain black-and-
white views of deserts, rickety bridges over mountain
torrents, and vast snowy peaks that convey more im-
pressively than Ambolt is able to in prose the spirit of
some of the most desolate country in the world.
Ambolt, a Swede carrying on the mapping and
exploration of Central Asia begun by Sven Hedin
(the book is translated by Joan Bulman) spent five
years in eastern Turkestan, in danger most of the time
from lack of water in the desert, cold in the moun-
tains, shortage of supplies and transport in the
sparsely-populated highlands and from attack by one
side or the other when war broke out between the
Turki and the Chinese.
He has one priceless story to illustrate the sim-
plicity of the peoples among whom he lived. Two
Turki servants were left behind for some reason when
his expedition was on the march and were supposed
to rejoin the main body that night. They didn’t turn
up, and were still missing in the morning, so a search-
party was sent out. They were found six miles away,
waiting patiently for death, and the story was:
The evening we left them they had followed the
caravan track all right until suddenly they caught sight
of a fire, and little Sidek cried out delightedly: “There
is the camp!” But Said achon thought not. “It is
sure to be a will-o’-the-wisp, a fallen star or some other
devilry. We had better go in the opposite direction.”
So they went in the opposite direction, for Said achon
had a beard and was consequently a wise man.
They wandered all the next day, grew tired, and de-
cided after a further consultation that their hour had
come. “Allah so wished it, praised and glorified be
his holy name, his will be done. They bathed and
washed themselves carefully, and prepared to die.”
Sven Hedin in the introduction says that it’s im-
possible to foresee who will finally own the vast terri-
tories the expedition covered. It will depend on the
issue of the present war in China and on the growth
or decline of the Russian influence, which is at present
“very powerful.” The fighting Ambolt encountered in
1933 was a revolt of the Turki against the Chinese
Administration, a war that was partly comic-opera
and partly barbaric and murderous. He saw a Turki
leader terrify the Chinese rulers of a town with the
announcement that the Turki army was two days’
march away. The prudent Chinese at once became
converted to Islam, and then the “army” arrived—six
men and an officer. The Turki townspeople rose
against the Chinese, but included in the attack the
richest Turki in the neighborhood, ostensibly because
he was pro-Chinese, but really because they were
looking for loot.
Coming towards the end of the book, the war is
the most colorful part of it. The earlier chapters,
recording long, arduous journeys have some of the
monotony of the scene they describe. But they are not
without lively moments: light comedy in the behavior
of Mongol servants, rich comedy among Chinese
officials with their exasperating obstructiveness and
their incredibly flowery politeness ; a charming en-
counter with wild horses and a less charming meeting
with wolves that attacked the expedition’s donkeys ;
descriptions of smugglers bringing opium from Russia,
of a Mongol warlord whose troops wore dark-green
uniforms of European cut, and of a Mongol lama who
had let his legs waste away in the hope of attaining
sufficient grace to set his people free from the evil
spirit of the mountain storms. An out-of-the-way
book.
Jack Lindsay on Culture.
In the preface to his A Short History of Culture
(Gollancz ; Moore’s Bookshop), Jack Lindsay writes:
This book was begun in a draft of notes which
would have taken several million words for their proper
elaboration. Even at that length, indeed, only the
fringe of the subject would be touched. Lacking the
time for such a vast analysis, I fell back on a com-
promise of some quarter of a million words, and wrote
the book at that length. But I found that that length
was enough to overload the book for the general reader
and yet be still far too sketchy for the specialist; and
so, since it was the general reader at whom I aimed,
I decided to compress the book to less than half the size
again, in order to bring out more simply the salient
lines of the argument.
It is then an intense and concentrated book in
which there burns a fierce core of dogma. The
abridgment has shorn away much of the evidence,
leaving only the conclusions, which fall on the reader’s
mind like a rain of pellets. Lindsay’s thesis is substan-
tially this; In the beginning man was a social animal
who of necessity lived by pooling the results of the
hunt. His first important step upward was the inven-
tion of tools, the first bow and arrow, the first spear
thrower.
The concentration in the tool, on its making and
use, gave man that capacity to concentrate his atten-
tion —to create a “universe of discourse” or “isolate” —
without which reason could never have developed any
stable basis. From this objectifying power grew speech.
The animal cry, the emotional interjection, found a
cohering point of meaning from which a stable con-
struction could grow, a continually enhanced value of
communication.
His life first integrated by the tool, man achieved
supremacy in the chase. This supremacy brought
periods of plenty, and plenty in its turn was the
source of all the arts, of which the dancing mime was
the first and root expression. Having overcome want,
man felt impelled to repeat the patterns of activity
by which he had achieved success. The energies
created by well-being seek an outlet, and, since they
can’t reasonably repeat the efforts by which physical
satisfaction was brought about, they repeat the pat-
tern of that effort on a new level. “And since man
has brought to work itself a new intensity of con-
sciousness he brings to the play-mime a new intensity
also” —activity remembered in safety.
Magic was the first effort to explain the universe,
and so became the basis of science. Magic is an
invention as well as an inquiry. Being dependent on
the natural fertility and increase of the world around
him man’s first magics were fertility rites. Woman,
says Lindsay, was the symbol of fertility, the initiator
of the arts of life and the discoverer or inventor of
agriculture. At this stage there were neither posses-
sions nor greed, only “an emotion of reciprocity.”
A radical change began when man discovered his
paternal function. He came to dominate woman in
the then™ I f’ . U \ ma l e superiority developed
his claims chlefta^n * The chieftain shored up
treasure » ou * ward and visible symbols, arms,
stable hei 8 ° o ( d fk gncLdture > by making life more
stable, helped the change.
the'nressurc e nf B fpaf at the food -gathering stage,
their strength direC - in *P act of terr °r and to rally
But aflll a ? en ® rall y harmonious group-activity.
flif h- aBn ?^ tUre fully arrived the “dividual
, g ! dt hl . ms , elf compacted in the group as the
oSoofttLSS *“ mad * side ° f «* wgfo.l
• r . s * moor ed in the senses, became a
painful fissure in society. With technical invention
the new culture split away from folk culture The
latter persisted only as a protest of the dispossessed
and a nostalgic craving for the lost golden age.
Lindsay traces this submerged mass culture through
the ages—in folklore with its emphasis on the Ugly
Duckling, Cinderella and last-shall-be-first motifs, in
anonymous peasant arts and crafts with its signature
m the maze pattern—“the pattern of reversal”—Punch
and Judy mimes, the Fool and all the legends in which
the dispossessed created the image of himself. Lindsay
points to the universality of these things. Their
spontaneous growth knows no national boundaries.
A Short History of Culture is an exceedingly
interesting book, lucid and provocative of thought.
The historical examples given are so well chosen that
it seems a pity the book has been so severely trimmed.
If it has a weakness it is in the author’s obvious
desire to project his personal ideas back into history.
History, recorded and inferential, is so vast that
almost anything can be proved from its labyrinth of
contradictory evidence. Brevity gives to the book
a savor of arbitrariness which stresses the aspect
of special pleading, and it also drives the author,
economising space as he must, to the use of jargon,
telescoped terms with a forced meaning.
He is at his best in the earlier chapters, his
descriptions of prehistoric society, where all scholars
must work in the dark, reconstructing life from a few
shards. As he approaches the world we know, with
its infinite growing variety, the tale becomes thin
to transparency. Nevertheless, there is something
living in the work which draws the mind on to specu-
lation.
A Pioneer Australian Flier.
In Joysticks and Fiddlesticks (Hutchinson), F. S.
Briggs and his literary collaborator S. H. Harris have
written a very interesting story of pioneering flying
in Australia, as well as an account of how airmen
were trained during the rush of the Great War.
Briggs was the first man to fly between Sydney
and Melbourne, the first to fly from east to west, and
the first to take a ’plane to Alice Springs. It comes
as a slight shock to be reminded that only 18 years
ago a pilot flying from Melbourne to Sydney couldn’t
be sure of getting petrol on the way. The supply in
the tanks running low, Briggs descended at both Junee
and Cootamundra without being able to buy any fuel.
At Harden he was successful in wheedling a little
from a householder who had a few tins on hand. In
those days the country press was failing in its duty
if it didn’t publish an interview with the pilot of a
’plane that landed in the vicinity.
Briggs has a nice touch in describing his early
flights; his unavoidably late arrival above the
“jewelled shawl” that was Sydney, making a dangerous
night landing on a black patch that he hoped was
Mascot but which turned out to be a neighboring
racecourse; the strain of a night flight across the
Nullarbor Plain, with no altimeter, only his steady aim
at the horizon to keep him somewhere between the
dark above and the deeper dark below. Reading the
adventures of the pioneer airmen it seems strange, not
that so many were killed, but that any have survived.
Briggs is still living after a couple of landing capsizes,
a forced landing in the arms of a gumtree and a hurried
descent with his ’plane in flames —and Briggs, as his
reproduced credentials prove, had a reputation as a
safe pilot. Vice-royalty and Cabinet Ministers were
entrusted to his care.
The book is in the main extracts from a diary,
a fact that preserves the impressions of the writer
in their pristine freshness. There is an interesting
shipboard glimpse of Kingsford Smith in the days
when he was just a young pilot on his way to Westralia
to fly a ’plane on the Geraldton-Derby mail service:
Charles can play the ukulele quite well, and has a
nice singing voice. We spend many hours grouped
around him, enjoying an impromptu concert. His cheer-
ful, kindly nature, irrepressible spirits, and, to boot, the
fact that he is a good pilot certainly suggest that he is
likely material from which great things can be expected
if he gets opportunities.
As well as being good general reading Joysticks
and Fiddlesticks will be a valued addition to the
archives of Australian flying. It is well illustrated.


uu] noA moH
m. : '»*•
-
t
m
mm
on OUR EfISV TERmS
Furnish simply and unostentatiously, don't overcrowd
your room, combine colours which blend harmon-
iously and use furniture which has quiet dignity and
the stamp of honest workmanship. That's how you
can furnish in good taste 1 Anthony Horderns' proudly
invites your inspection of the Suites illustrated on
this page, which may be bought on Anthony
Horderns' famous easy terms.
£26/10/- 3-PIECE LOUNGE SUITE
Three-piece fully upholstered Suite,
consisting of a Settee and two large
Easy Chairs, sprung backs, sprung
platforms and loose reversible spring
91818
filled cushions covered in tapestry of various designs and
colours. Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £26/107-
SPECIAL PRICE £lB/187-
Deposit £l/17/0. 12 Monthly Payments of £l/0/11.
£2l Cane Back
Lounge Suite
W\5 l
Three - piece cane back
Lounge Suite, New Blonde
finish, spring filled loose
reversible cushion cov-
ered in selected tapestry.
Suite consists of a Settee
and two Chairs, with cab-
riole legs. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price,
suite £2l
SPECIAL PRICE, £l6/15/-
Deposit £ 1 /IJS/6. 12
Monthly Payments 26/5.
ĵ
j
ĵ
m
%
m
m
m
m
m.
m
US
SS • :•
mmk
m
i
m
I
m
£2B/10/- MODERN SUITE
Full length Settee and
two roomy Easy Chairs
comprise Suite, which
is covered in excellent
£22/10/
quality continental tapestry material. Sprung backs,
sprung platform and loose reversible spring filled
cushions. Independent spring edge. Anthony
Horderns' Regular Price £2B/10/-
SPECIAL PRICE £22/10/-
Deposit £2/5/-. 18 Monthly Payments of £l/4/2.
• Furniture—Third Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
Anthony Horderns
’Phone yV12401
Day and Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address :
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.


He Looked a Champion, But —
GYM tightez
tightez
“I’ll do better this round, Mitch.” He spoke
as though he were grinding the words out.
But / was rubbing at his legs and feeling the
tightness of the muscles.
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
BY A.C .HEADLEY
WE thought Grady Maher was going to be a
world-beater when he first turned up at the
gym.
XT tt . „ ,
Not that he look ed it He was tall and
thin, one of those freak weights looking a stone
heavier than he actually was. But he was but t hard.
You could see it by looking at his hands and the line
of his jaw. He was the kind ready to take a punch
so that he could swing his fist home.
When he told Mitch his weight, I could see Mitch
didn’t believe him, and thought the kid was weighting
himself down to make it easier. Mitch called up one
of the boys to give him a tryout, and it wasn’t till he
took off his shirt that I knew he’d told the truth
about his weight. Looking through the armholes of
his singlet you could see the way his ribs stuck’ out.
But when the fight started you didn’t notice or think
about anything like that. Grady started in on the
other boy and pasted the daylights out of him. I
could see Mitch was getting interested.
He s a natural, said Mitch, the kind that makes
champions.
“Bustling a prelim, kid around the ropes isn’t
what gets a title, I told him.
“It’s not the bustlin’,” said Mitch, “it’s the way
it s done.
r ,
| KNOCK aiound the gyms, pretty otten because it s
my idea that you see more real fighting there than
anywhere. It doesn t matter much and it doesn t hurt
any reputations. Ive seen four-round plugs stand in
and swap punches with the champ, as though it was
a matter of life and death. There s no let-up, and it s
the place where the punch-drunks come from. It
*iia.££i ~ , . , .
takes a lot of fights to make a pug walk on his heels,
but in the gyms., “goitf a couple with Harry” or
“goin’ a couple with Jimmy,” it's different.
Sometimes there are boys who stand out in the
gym. set-to's who fold up as soon as they get into a
ring Grady Maher was like that
s [n „ r
roll with them—but in the ring jus? the feel of the
lights seemed to buckle him up completely, so that
his muscles got tied and slow. It’s just one of those
queer things that happen in the fight game. In a
street fight I’d have backed Grady against the champ.
Zl7 tS iwn L » rfl . H h W T h"
have taken two bob out of my pocket to back him
anyone.
course we lent know anything about it then.
Grady was clever, and when Mitch started teaching
him a few of the tricks you could see him lapping
it up and remembering every bit. There was that
trick about dropping his eyes to lower his opponent’s
defence. He was good at that, bringing the guard
down and then ciacking home with a solid left hook.
At the end of a month I was as confident as Mitch
about him.
And you could see how confident Mitch felt by
the way he looked.
By the time Mitch was ready to fix him up with
a fight Grady could almost go through the actions
With his eyes shut.
~ . . . , .
All the tune he was gettmg smarter and prettier
to watch. There was no leather-shoving about him-
every punch was crisp and clean. He looked as if he
could annihilate any of the usual four-rounders, but
still Mitch kept him out of the fights, so that Grady
was beginning to get impatient. You couldn’t blame
him. All he was doing was sticking around the gym.
learning all the little things that go to earning the
decision, but he wasn’t earning any money, and there
were boys in the gym. that he could trounce picking
U P money from the fours and sixes.
Mitch fixed up a fight for him. It was only a
four, but you’d have thought it was a championship
the way Grady talked. It was against a pretty tough
boy, Dickie Mack. Mitch wasn’t worried. He was
just beginning to find out just how good Grady was.
Bu , the ni gh, of the fight Grady spoiled the pic-
ture. I could see him nerving-up in the dressing-
room. I helped tie the bandages across his knuckles.
Across from him the boy he was fighting was perched
on q-, e nibbing table, smearing vaseline over his face.
He didn’t look as though he was interested in Grady,
but y OU could see that Grady was interested in him.
Grady sat there staring across at him, watching the
muscles on his back and the flattened nose. There
we re pictures of fighters around the walls, and you
could see him trying to fasten his interest on them.
JBnt he was looking too long in the one place, and
y OU k new that his eyes were ’way past them, and the
hght was tremendous in his mind.
A/r ., , . , . T£ , , , , x , ~ ,
Mitch could see it, too. If he hadn t he d have
~c 4 ~ A
bee , n ' elbng Grady a . the fl sht, how to fight it.
he ,alkmg ab ° Ut bUy ‘" g a neW swlvd £or
‘ he heaVy bag ’
Then “ was time - 1 was one of Grady’s seconds,
and * g rad bed a bucket and led the way. Grady came
out behind me with Mitch. It was the first prelim.
and hadn't had anything to get its teeth into
yet ’ k ™ey didn t take much notice of Grady as he
d,mbed “” t0 tbe nng ' U " der *<; llgh,s , hb , looked
scared ' Not of ge ‘ tmg a b >dmg-he wasn t like that
, e w:i ' 3 |u ’' scare b 1 e Ig ! s ’ an ! e w lte ™P es ’
was a resin-box, and Mitch had to tell him to rub his
Under the he looked pa|er , han ever _ apd
when I touched his back I could feel the tautness of
strained muscles. Mitch was telling him about the
fight. “Listen, Grady, this boy’s easy for you. He’ll
bring the fight right down your alley. Let him come
to you, don’t go after him. It’s. all old stuff. He
leaves himself open every time he punches. Fight
him with your head, Grady.”
And Grady was sitting there so that you didn t
know whether he heard any of Mitch’s advice. It
made me nervous just watching him. It was like
waiting for an earthquake to happen,
And then: Seconds out!
I could fee) the unwilling weight of him as I
hoisted him out of his corner. He looked lost, stand-
ing there with his hands raised and the other boy
coming at him across the canvas, flicking out his left.
Tn the gym. Grady’s right hand would have picked it
off his chin without thinking, but now it took him
flush on the mouth and jerked his head back. He
edged out his left, but there was no force in it and
it spat itself dismally on the air. Another lead snapped
his head back. Then another.
It was as though he’d forgotten all that Mitch had
ever taught him. He was standing helplessly in the
ring waiting for Mack to lead. His guard lifted higher,
covering his face. It was pitiful. Mack would jab a
right to his body, and hook over it with a left. Once
or twice Grady eased out a left, but even when it
landed there was no force behind it. It was almost
as though he was frightened to trust the full force of
the punch. From somewhere in the crowd a voice
started to count.
All the time Grady was moving dazedly in the
white light of the ring. It was incomprehensible. This
was a fight he should have finished in the first round,
and here he was being picked off and not knowing
how to save himself. Occasionally he managed to
cover into his gloves, but it left his body open to the
kicking right.
At the bell he came back to his corner. Mitch
wanted to know what was wrong with him.
“I’ll do better this round, Mitch.” He spoke as
though he were grinding tfie words out. But I was
rubbing at his legs and feeling the tightness of the
muscles. They were hard and solid. Mitch started in
to give him the same instructions, but it didn’t make
any difference when the bell sounded for the next
round.
He started to take punishment. The pecks that
had been pushing into his face were beginning to
gather sting. But it served to make him fight, not
the way he fought in the gym., but throwing punches
as fast as he could without any idea of defence. It
suited Mack. A right chopped Grady on the side
of the head and he went down. He came to his
feet quickly, but he was smothering up again and
allowing himself to be picked off. The round finished
with him covering in a corner.
Mitch wanted to know what was wrong again,
but Grady wasn’t talking. He was licking at his lips
and tasting blood, and his eyes were staring dully at
the white square of the ring. There were two rounds
to §o and he moved through them listlessly. There
was no doubt about the decision ; there was no other
way it Could go. Mitch vanished and left me to help
Grady undo.
“What was wrong, kid?”
“I dunno, Jim,” he said ; “it was just like me
arms and legs wouldn’t move when I wanted ’em to.”
“It’s nerves,” I said; “you’ll get over it.”
“Sure,” he said, “I’ll get over it. Listen, Jim,
what did Mitch say?”
“Mitch knows what nerves are like,” I said.
“He’ll get me more fights, Jim?”
“Sure. You’ll be earning real dough,” I said,
“when you get over those nerves.”
I saw Mitch later, and I think he was more
knocked over Grady’s failure than the kid was him-
self. He’d been so confident about how good he was,
and to see him knocked off by a tenth-rater —that
was what hurt.
o Continued at foot of next page.)


s. h. prior
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1940.
<000
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL,
BIOGRAPHY OR OTHER PROSE
WORK.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is offered as
a practical encouragement of Australian writers
and Australian literature Australian being
adopted as a convenient term to include Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands. All
writers born in these parts are included, no
matter where now residing; so also are bona
fide residents, no matter where born.
The prize is an annual award of £100, which
may be withheld if no entry is considered
worthy. With accumulations from years when
no award was made the amount has built up
to £300, and an entry of sufficient merit in
.the present competition, closing June 6 next
year, can qualify for the £200 accumulations in
addition to the ordinary award of £100.
This 1940 Competition is open to Novels,
Biographies, Autobiographies and all other kinds
of works in prose. Each MS. must be submitted
under a pen-name, with full name and address
in an accompanying sealed envelope.
The winner will be free to have his or her
winning work published in book form by any
publisher preferred. Serial rights will be a
matter for arrangement between “The Bulletin
and the winner and the writers of any other
entries selected, payment for such rights being
in addition to the Prize. All other rights
book, stage, radio and the like will belong to
the author.
Any further details required can be had on
application to the Secretary, S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, Box 252 IBB,
G.P.O., Sydney.
“I can’t make out what happened,” he said. “It
shouldn’t have gone a round.”
“Nerves,” I said. “It’s the first time he’s figured
on a fight card. I could feel him the way his muscles
were tight and knotted. He was scared, Mitch,
scared of the crowd and the lights.”
'T' HERE was a spell in the gym. for Grady after
that, and he was just as good as ever, looking like
a class fighter every time he wore the gloves. Mitch
agreed with me about the nerves, and to break him
into the atmosphere of the stadiums he took him
along as second whenever one of the other boys was
fighting.
Then there was another four-rounder. But it was
a repetition of that first fight. Under the lights he
seemed dazed, uncertain of what to do with his hands.
And that was how it was whenever he stepped into
a stadium ring.
Mitch tried hard, but it wasn’t any use. He got
matches for him and saw him waste the opportunities.
He was good enough, certainly. He came to me when
Mitch finally gave him up. “Jim,” he said, “I gotter
git fights. I gotter git money from somewhere.”
I told him to try some of the other gyms. The
result was the same. He’d get a fight or two, and then
they’d be through with him. They didn’t want him at
the stadiums either, after a while. He came back to
me to see if I could get him any work as a sparring-
partner.
/""''RADY MAHER is one of the best sparring part-
ners around the city now. He gets plenty of work
doing spars with the topliners at ten bob a time. He
takes them on at any weight. Most times they are
heavier than himself —the welters and middles who
want to try out with a bit of speed. They get it from
Grady, and they like sparring with Grady because i!
gives them something to think about.
Grady is thirty-five now, so that means that he’s
been a sparring partner for a few years. He wouldn t
have lasted that long in the ring. They always last
longer in the gyms. The gloves are thicker and he
wears a battered set of headgear. He fights every day,
including Sundays, and in the gyms, he has a follow-
ing. They last longer in the gyms, all right, but it’s
only because the gyms, don’t have any doctors to stop
them from putting on the gloves. He couldn’t get a
fight at any of the stadiums new because the doctors
can see something just by looking into his eyes, but
there are plenty of spars for him at ten bob a time.
Macpherson
Wrestles
A Ghost
By A. E. YARRA
MACPHERSON was zig-zagging home from the
camp-drafting tournament when he met the
ghost.
“Hullo!” he said, “hae ye got a cork-
screw? The corrk winna come oot o’ the bottle.”
The ghost said never a word, but seemed to watch
Mac with mournful eyes and to draw its shroud,
which was a dirty greying white, a little more closely
around it.
The cadaverous Scot stared through the whisky
fumes at the apparition a moment, swaying on his
feet. He tried to pass his left hand over his eyes to
clear them, but the bridle over his arm prevented him,
so he turned and swore at the wiry little horse stand-
ing patiently at the end of the reins in the moonlight.
The horse drew its head back sharply, and the reins
pulled Macpherson off his balance. He fell, sat up
slowly, and addressed his faithful mount: “Ye fower-
leggit libel on the race o’ horrses, ye glowerin’ gom-
eral, ye daft auld yowe, dinna stan’ there yawpin’.
Can ye no whustle or gie a yelloch? Ye unco, ugsome,
tricky bunnel o’ hair an’ banes, ye winna stan’ whiles
I mount ye mysel’, an’ ye winna help me intae the
saddle, ye”
The horse interrupted the abuse with a shrill
neigh, and Macpherson gave in. He turned his gaze
on the ghost and offered the bottle of whisky, but
the visitation from the dark regions offered never a
syllable in acknowledgment.
Macpherson was offended. “Sae ye winna crack
wi’ a Macphairrrson? D’ye no’ ken the clan? The
Macphairrrsons were chieftains when”
With a mighty effort of thought the Scot dis-
engaged the bridle from his arm, and was thus able
to rise on his hands and knees, releasing the little
camp-horse, which trotted away and engaged itself
on the cocksfoot, fragrant in the monlight, and the
clover, fetlock-high after the summer rains.
On all fours, Macpherson grasped the bottle by
the neck and frowned at the spectre, which seemed
to be stretching its skeleton arms in a silent challenge
to the champion catch-as-catch-can wrestler of Magpie
Creek. “Sae ye wad try a fall wi’ a Macphairrrson
now? Wull, ye hae the spunk o’ a Hielander, onny-
way, I’ll say as much for ye. Wull ye wrassle a bout
wi’ a Macphairrrson?”
A grunt like that of a hog and a whimpering of
satisfaction came from the ghost. Macpherson stag-
gered to his feet, swayed a moment, dropped the
bottle. “Ye ill-bred skellum, can ye no’ speak wi’ ye
mouth? Ye ocht tae know better —speakin’ out o’
y’r boots. Mon, I’m ashamed o’ ye. An’ whit
language is that? It’s no’ Gaelic, an’ it isna English.
Is it Irish ye are, or from the”
An enormous foot, as big as Macpherson’s entire
body, moved in the dust as the ghost set itself for
a holt. Macpherson glared at this monstrosity a
second, thrown off his guard, and then he backmoved,
for he was a champion even when drunk.
“Aha,” said he. “La savate ? Sae ye are French,
ye dirty kicker o’ guid men. Ye wud use y r feet
on a Macphairrson.”
The enormous foot subsided into the dust. The
spectre grunted, snorted, stirred its ragged shroud
but spoke not; neither did it move forward, appar-
ently preferring to let its opponent force the attack.
Macpherson eyed the little puffs of dust that came
from the stirrings of the ghost’s gigantic foot, for he
had once been kicked on the chin by an exponent of
la savate, and he was acutely wary. If a French
sailor could lay him out with a No. 7 shoe, what
might not happen as a result of a well-aimed kick
from a foot as big as a full-grown man? Besides, a
spectre was sure to have one or two tricks that were
not included in the usual repertoire of the Hielander.
“Mon,” said Macpherson, “ye’re no’ fit tae wrassle
wi’ a champion. Ye hae dropsy. Ye ocht tae be at
hame in bed wi’ a dochtor an’ a nurse. I’ll gie ye
leave tae wi’draw an’ no hold it agenst ye. Mon,
y’r feet are awfu’ swoll’n. D’ye no’ feel the pain?”
“Ugh, huggh, umph, grummph,” said the ghost,
and Mac’s wary eye saw the great foot starting to rise (
in the swift, devastating kick of the la savate expert.
He was ready for it, having shaped his plan while
talking to stall awhile. He threw himself bodily
on that gigantic foot and clasped both arms round
it in a grip that had squeezed the breath out of many
a would-be champion. The ghost, taken by surprise,
screamed, struggled, heaved under the weight of Mac’s
thirteen stone, but could not break that death-grip.
Mac, breathless but triumphant, knew that he
had the spectre at a disadvantage from the first, for
he could feel the warm, hairy flesh of the bare foot
wriggling in agony as he increased the pressure. The
ghost continued screaming with pain and terror. Mac-
pherson laughed. “How does it feel, ye limb o the
de’il, tae hae a dropsy fut squeezed by the champion
o’ Magpie Creek?”
Macpherson, applying more and more pressure,
felt himself lifted bodily and borne off down the
steep side of the scrub-covered hill as the ghost ran
away. Branches dragged at his clothes, scratched
his limbs; but he knew he had a winning hold, and
exerted his full strength in a grip that must have meant
frightful agony to anyone with a foot so badly dis-
eased as to swell to the proportions of this one.
“Mon, ye may run awa, but ye’ll no’ get verra
far,” he chuckled, as he clung, face downwards, and
pressed his nose against the hairy flesh of the ghost’s
great foot so that the branches of scrub could not
reach it. “Wull ye ca’ eneuch, or wull ye lose y’r
fut, ye bletherin’ bluntie, ye?”
Down the hillside blundered the ghost, with Mac
clinging to its awful foot, and it began to dawn on
him that there was only one foot, and that it was just
as well, for it would be disaster should there be an-
other to descend on his back and crush the breath out
of him.
Half-way down the hillside there was a wire
fence, and, too late, the wrestler realised the strategy
of the ghost, for it was making for this at full speed,
screaming frightfully, bumping him against trees and
tearing him almost to pieces as it blundered through
patches of scrub. Then it seemed to raise the great
foot and smash Mac against a big corner-post in the
fence, and all was dark.
A T daylight Constable O’Rourke and Blacktracker
Jessop found Macpherson half-conscious lying at
the base of the great post, and aroused him with rough
shaking and questions.
“I had yon speerit by the fut,” said the wrestler,
feeling a swelling on the top of his head where he
had struck the post. “It waur by-ordinair for a fut,
ye ken, but I had a body-scissors.”
“You’re drunk again, Macpherson,” grinned Con-
stable O’Rourks. “Take a look round, Jackie, you’ll
find a bottle somewhere.”
While the policeman helped Macpherson to his
feet and listened to his babbling of a wrestling match
with the ghost of the French-Canadian Pierre Marcel,
who was murdered by a drunken blackfellow on that
hillside three years before, the tracker, with sharp eyes
on the ground, back-tracked the ghost with the drop-
sied foot which had escaped from the champion of
Magpie Creek by a trick, as Mac said. Presently he
came back to where O’Rourke was helping the Scot
to mount his little horse. He had the bottle of whisky
and was grinning broadly.
The constable opened the bottle with his pocket-
knife to give Macpherson a hair of the dog that bit
him.
“Well?” he said while the wrestler took a third-
mate’s nip.
‘Morris’s pig been sleepin’ in wallow longside
Jimmy Smith’s scarecrow in the orchard,” said the
blackfellow. “Them tracks look liket this pfeller been
wrastlin’ the pig, by cripe! You otta see the way they
broke up the scarecrow, boss.” •
Out through the open double gate rode the three
horsemen, Macpherson in the middle, and as they
went Morris’s great grey sow heaved itself up from her
wallow in the dust of the road and bolted into the
scrub, grunting and snorting.
“There goes the ghost of the Frenchie, Mac,”
said Constable O’Rourke with a cheery grin as he held
the wrestler in the saddle, but Macpherson was feel-
ing the bump on his head and wondering if an old
raincoat on a rough wooden cross with a hat on top
and straw-filled gloves at the ends of the arms could
try to kick him on the chin with a dropsied foot. It
didn’t seem feasible.
“It waur that dirty la savate,” he growled, and
took another draught from the neck of the bottle.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
tffad c Mne'cfWie 7MM(MmcMundMviiq/iiet
Dominion and American visitors find
in those “structural remains of a long
past” one of the major attractions Lon-
don and its vicinity have to offer. Per-
haps this is due to the transference from
scenes wherein a century or two con-
stitute “antiquity” to those memorials
taking the observer along the corridor
of time past marked by many hundreds
of years. There are sermons in stone,
and this venerable adage is, in the sense,
implied, peculiarly applicable to much to
be seen in the form of famous buildings
telling a story of the current of life
which flowed in the days when our re-
mote ancestors “lived, moved and had
their being.” Perhaps no metropolis in
the world, save, of course, “the Eternal
City” of Rome, is richer in this respect
than London, for in the circuit of the
Greater London of 1939 there is,
nationally at least, what might be de-
scribed as a ‘‘plethora of wealth” of
these landmarks, so to speak, of a long
ago. Some half a dozen miles separate
Charing Cross Station, “the centre of
the world,” as it has with peculiar
applicability been designated, from the
village of Eltham, as it was known to
our great grandparents, but now pars
inter pares of that great city which the
late Lord Morley likened even in his
day to “a gigantic elephantiasis drawing
to itself the lifeblood of the provinces.”
If his Lordship had lived to the present
year of grace he would have varied the
simile to “the lifeblood of the Empire.”
Lord Morley’s famous phrase had a
political, local it is true, connection such
as is not implied in the present reference.
To return to Eltham, its ancient name
was Ealdham. The Palace was for several
centuries a favorite retreat of the
sovereigns, to which its vicinity to the
metropolis and the pleasantness of its
situation doubtless contributed. In the
days of the Saxons the Manor of Eltham
had belonged to the Crown. William
the Conqueror granted it to Bishop Odo.
William Rufus confiscated it, dividing it
between the Crown and the noble family
of the Magnavilles. Edward I. made
over his portion to John de Vesci, who
later secured “the other portion.” His
son William had a “natural son” bearing
the father’s Christian name, to whom he
left Eltham. He had appointed, howevei,
as trustee the warlike Bishop Anthony
Bee of Durham, and this prelate, by
methods curious, obtained possession of
the estate, dying at Eltham in 1311. The
unfortunate William de Vesci was killed
at the battle of Strivelin in Scotland.
When the Palace was built is unknown,
but certainly before 1270. Here Henry
111. kept, as the chroniclers have it, “a
grand public Christmas, accompanied by
ELTHAM PALACE.
GREAT HALL,
ELTHAM PALACE.
ELTHAM PALACE-THE GREAT HALL.
his Queen and all the great men of the realm.” Edward 111. held a Parliament at the Palace in 1329 and again in 1375, when the Commons
petitioned him to make his grandson, Richard de Bourdeaux, Prince of Wales. Most of the succeeding sovereigns till Henry VIII. resided in
this Palace, but on Greenwich becoming popular it lost caste. The old place then suffered rapid decl'ne, becoming a farm, and the noble
Great Hall, wherein Parliaments were held and entertainments given in all the pomp of feudal gran eur, was used as a barn and stable.
The hall, 60ft. high, is 100 ft. long and 56ft. broad. The timbered roof is curiously wrought in the nanner of that at Westminster Hall, and
richly ornamented with finely-carved pendants. Fo’-t”nately, efforts have been made to preserve this superb relic, with its 22 windows arranged
in pairs in five bays between buttresses along the sides.


THE OLD FIRM.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia ; Gordon & Gotch (Ams.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, Us.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
ONE WEEK OF WAR.
In some respects it is an extraordinary war. The most
extraordinary feature is that there is still a German
Legation at Dublin, the Government of Eire having
issued a declaration of neutrality ; and there would
be a German Legation at Cape Town still if Mr.
Hertzog had had his way.
There are no war songs or war poems. Enemy
aliens have been interned with swift efficiency but
without the slightest evidence of ill-feeling. The atti-
tude of the Australian Government is that internment
is an unpleasant necessity, and that it is prepared to
discriminate between those who, on the face of it, are
harmless and those who may be capable of mischief.
A.8.C., which prefers Central European singers to
Australian, had six of them in Sydney when war
broke out. It put on “extra concerts” for them, and
the party sang German music to crowded audiences,
who heard blithely for the hundredth or thousandth
time the dreary old “Blue Danube,” staple of every
bad radio programme since radio programme was in-
vented. It was thoughtfully mentioned that such of the
warblers as were “born in Germany and Austria”
have “not been back for years.”
When the Australian tennis-players won the Davis
Cup it was taken for granted that they would return
immediately, especially as two members of the team
are in the A.M.F. The council of the A.L.T.A. did
indeed decide that the players must leave the U.S.A.
“by the first available boat.” Three gentlemen of the
N.S.W. association at once protested, the general sec-
retary blithering that “to bring our men home without
allowing them to compete in the U.S. national singles”
would “needlessly offend” the Americans —whose
Government is such a stickler for neutrality that it
won’t even permit the delivery of 50 Lockheed Hudson
bombers ordered by the Australian Government.
Another enthusiast insisted that “no good purpose
would be served by rushing the team back to Aus-
tralia.” The council at once altered its decision, and the
young men remained for “the U.S. national singles.”
This assertion of the superior importance of
lawn tennis would have been unthinkable in 1914 or
in any other Great War year. The ill-fated Darcy
lived too soon.
In other quarters people are slow to realise what
this war means. They behave as if they were taking
up an old familiar round after a long sleep. The
savage torpedoing of the Athenia, a passenger ship
full of women and children, on a cold Atlantic moon-
light night was not followed by the display of be-
wildered wrath which followed the sinking of the
Lusitania, though there was cruel loss of life. Indig-
nation there was, but it was indignation of a queer
kind. The dreadful fact was accepted as the sort of
thing that was bound to happen in the course of a war
with Germany.
Phlegm in time of war can be a good thing, but
not if it is accompanied by wishful thinking based on
ignorance. There is an unfortunate tendency to believe
that the German people can, with no great difficulty,
be induced to desert their Government, and that when
the Allies press them hard they will be ready for a
hasty peace, with the overthrow of the Nazi leaders
and policy. There is an easy faith in the assertion,
fathered on General Gamelin by an ill-informed
American weekly and repeated over a chain of radio
stations, that the French could “go through the Sieg-
fried Line as if it were marmalade.” There is a hazy
idea that, economically, the Germans are in a bad way.
No such comfortable conclusions are warranted
by ascertained facts. All the available evidence goes
to show that the Germans have gone to war united in
the determination to wrest from the Poles every bit of
territory that was under German rule in 1914, and
convinced that they can beat Poland and cannot be
beaten by Britain and France. They have
always maintained that they were starved into
submission in 1918. Now they can draw immense
supplies from countries then hostile or unsympathetic:
from Russia and Italy; Rumania and Greece “guar-
anteed” by the Allies but, like the Russians, scared
stiff —Belgium, Holland and Denmark ; Yugoslavia
and the Baltic States. This means also the release for
military service of large numbers of Germans who
otherwise would have to be engaged in industrial occu-
pations, and whose fathers were so engaged in the
Great War.
The very magnitude of the British and French
preparations shows that the Governments of Britain
and France realise what lies ahead and how much
effort will be needed to secure a decisive victory, if
decisive victory proves necessary. In its latest memor-
andum the Imperial Policy Group, whose remark-
ably accurate deductions and prophecies The Bulletin
has quoted in previous issues, stresses all these points.
I.P.G. investigators reported in July that the Germans
despised the Poles; that their General Staff was posi-
tive that Poland could be conquered in a few weeks,
and that their strategists were convinced that the
Western Powers could do no more than wage a defen-
sive war.
It must be acknowledged that their Polish cam-
paign has so far gone very well for them. At the end
of the first week the Poles, while still showing a bold
front, had been driven from their first line of defences
and were fighting a delaying action in doomed War-
saw. They had lost the Corridor, Cracow and
Upper Silesia, with its coal and metal mines, and the
tide of battle was flowing into their manufacturing
districts, particularly Lodz. The enemy admits that
their cavalry showed great gallantry, but cavalry can-
not fight aerial bombers and machine-gunners, and
it is all too evident that the enemy, was, from the
beginning, superior in the air.
To relieve the pressure on Poland the French
launched attacks from their Maginot Line. It is
improbable that the attacks were delivered in any
great force, American reports of big battles notwith-
standing ; for on Saturday mobilisation was still in
progress and the French learned too much from their
1914 experiences to entertain hopes of a hasty break-
through. Neither is it likely that the British were
engaged to any extent, though this was so stated in
New York and Paris announced that British troops
were arriving in the front line. In 1914 mobilisation
of seven British divisions and some battalions of
line-of-commumcation troops and transport of five
divisions to France occupied 14 days, August 4-18.
But between the Maginot and Siegfried Lines German
ground was gained, and the enemy, who had clung
to the hope that the French would not advance (on
the wall of a fort he had hung up a sign, “We are
ordered not to fire if you do not attack”) was obliged
to counter-attack and, apparently, draw reinforce-
ments from Poland, meanwhile effecting a hurried
withdrawal of civilians from the Saar and other en-
dangered districts.
Clearly the French are much better equipped for
war than they were in 1914 and have immensely
stronger lines. In August-September, 1914, diversion
of forces and ill-planned offensives cost them terrible
defeats, the truth of which did not come out till after
the war. The unfortunate battles of Upper Alsace,
Lorraine and Charleroi will not be repeated. Neither
will an ill-supported British army have to fight another
Mons or Le Cateau.
And the naval position is definitely in our favor
—immeasurably more so than it was in 1914-18. There
is no High Seas fleet to challenge the Royal Navy as at
Jutland. No squadron like Von Spee’s is on the prowl
in the South Pacific, nor is there a Von Muller at
large in a second Emden. And all the German mer-
chantmen that were not in the Baltic on September 1
have been chased into or are making by roundabout
routes for neutral ports.
Even the submarine campaign—horrible as it is
—is fundamentally a confession of naval inferiority.
In the Great War it did not begin until the seventh
month of actual hostilities, and was then limited for
a time “to all waters round Great Britain and Ireland.”
This time there has been unrestricted submarine war-
fare from the outset. Other British vessels, chiefly
small freighters, have suffered the fate of the Athenia ;
and until the convoy system has been established on
all threatened trade routes, further losses may be
anticipated. But the R.N. may be trusted to take care
of the tinfish in good time.
So far the combatants on tfie Western Front have
refrained, by mutual consent, from bombing cities.
British airmen, however, made daring attacks on Kiel
and Sylt, and in raid after raid have dropped propa-
ganda leaflets on German soil. Propaganda is a
weapon that may be employed with increasing advan-
tage if the Germans have to go on short commons
(Goring has already “asked” them to eat less meat),
with their armies unable to advance and suffering
cruelly.
A cardinal weakness of dictatorships is that they
have to be successful all the time. Napoleon was
mightier far than Hitler and commanded a greater
measure of devotion, but when he ceased to be suc-
cessful he was doomed. Flatterers were the first to
abandon him; the bled-white nation refused to fight
for him ; even his favorite marshals went over to the
enemy at last.
The Guinea Touch.
A.B.C. has grandiose projects in the building line, and
one of them is to be realised before long, unless the
Government decides that it needs the money for useful
purposes.
Though its tenure is only temporary, the commis-
sion has given orders for the raising of a £300,000
structure in a most expensive part of Sydney. In this,
admittedly, it is following Sydney examples set by
other commissions, which, unlike this somewhat pre-
carious concern, seemed salted for perpetuity.
The State Savings Bank Commission built a
monument to its glory, the cost of which must have
been stupendous, though precise and detailed infor-
mation was never published. Equally vague, : if some-
what less lavish, was the Transport Commission when
the building bug bit it in Mr. Maddocks’s time. No
astrological fraud has risen to point out that planetary
influences were unfavorable to these architectural
ventures. The fact remains that the bank went bung
and Mr. Maddocks went to the pack.
Obviously it is taken for granted that the listener,
who pays £1 Is. for an annual license, will go on find-
ing the money for the gratification of A.B.C. ambi-
tions. He has found so much of recent years that
the Commonwealth Auditor-General, reporting on
A.B.C.’s finance for the 1937-38 year, wrote that it
had made a profit of £50,000, had accumu-
lated a surplus of £302,000, owned land and build-
ings valued at £70,000, had investments worth £144,500
and possessed £34,500 in cash “and at bank.”
A.B.C. gets 12s. of the listener’s guinea. The
Post Office, which attends to the mechanical side of-
the business, collects the other 9s. On its wireless
branch, the Post Office, like the broadcasting concern,
makes massive annual profits, reckoned in 1937-38 at
£82,000 “after payment of interest.” On all its opera-
tions in that year the Post Office had a surplus of
£2,788,600, after payment of interest and sinking-fund
contributions and of £3,171,500 “on additions, new
works, buildings, etc.” Out of its vast revenue, the
Post Office could manifestly provide all the “additions,
new works, buildings, etc.,” required by A.B.C. and
by its outback customers, many of whom are treated
rather shabbily; and listeners in general could be
provided with better service for a smaller fee.
What does the listener get for his annual guinea?
In the way of news, rehashes of daily-paper stuff
and 8.8. C. bits, supplemented by a Canberra man’s
reports of Ministerial statements and the like and by
a port reporter’s interviews with people arriving or
returning by luxury liners and thrilled at their recol-
lections of the contest between the Bessarabian Bone-
crusher and the Mesopotamian Mammoth and of the
furs the women are wearing in New York. Eyewit-
nesses’ accounts of sporting events, chiefly race-meetings
—a service prized by the army of s.p. bookmakers and
their multitudes of mugs (8.8. C. reports five race-
meetings a year, A.B.C. 500 or 600). “News com-
mentaries” by bores of the Russian-alliance breed.
Now and then a Murdoch or a Dakin is permitted to
discourse on non-controversial subjects and touch them
with humor, but such interruptions are rare.
In the way of music all tastes are catered for, it
is claimed. The gramophone record is the staple, but
a dance band, complete with lady crooner, is on the
strength, together with an orchestra or two to satisfy
the craving for something better than jazz or swing,
and also perhaps to enable the concern to boast that
it is charged to the muzzle with Australian sentiment.
This has been questioned by Mr. Dawson and Mr.
Brownlee, and A.B.C. chose to ignore Mr. Dawson’s
reiteration of a newspaper statement, attributed to a
member of the commission, that it didn’t want him
in 1940 or any other year. But it had to
answer the charge that it had hogged the concert
market to the injury of the Marjorie Lawrence
enterprise in Melbourne, and again in Sydney.
Its way of replying was to protest indignantly that it
had warned the Australian soprano not to return to
her native country in 1939 because it had signed up
so many Central Europeans —persons whose names,
for the most part, have to be pronounced with a sneeze.
The fact is that A.8.C., with its command of easy
money and free advertising, is forcing the private con-
cert promoter out of existence. It is overdoing music
altogether, helped, as to the concert variety, by the
cant of musical criticism which sees genius in very
ordinary compositions and ascribes perfect execution
to second-rate performers, and .by the fact that con-
cert-going has, for the time being, become a social
craze. It overdoes especially the baser forms of music,
negroid and New York Jew. Poetry it neglects
altogether.
Verse of haunting beauty has been written in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland. English poetry is one of the
glories of the human race. Spoken in voices fit to
carry its lofty message by men and women with a
feeling for it, it would be an instrument of culture far
superior to anything heard from national stations. But
the only poet that A.B.C. employs is engaged to review
the current imbecilities of Hollywood.
Not that A.B.C. is wholly unmindful of the
printed word. It is going into the newspaper
business, in which—free of income-tax and with
free advertising and free reprints—it will com-
pete with publications struggling to save them-
selves from the fate of the “Queenslander,” the Sydney
“Mail” and the “Referee.” It has let a printing contract
and engaged a staff, and the “Commonwealth Gazette”
notifies that the editor’s salary has been fixed at £l5OO
a year. The same issue mentions other A.B.C. staff
salaries—-Federal Superintendent, £22 a week ; Federal
Controller of Music, Federal Controller of Pro-
grammes and N.S.W. manager, each £2O a week ; secre-
tary and accountant, £lB. These salaries and many
others are awarded, not by the Public Service arbi-
trator or the Commonwealth Arbitration Court, but
by the commission, which is rolling in easy money.
Except that annual accounts which conceal more than
they reveal are laid on the table of the House, Parlia-
ment is ignored by the commission, though Parliament
created it. A.B.C. can, if it pleases, turn down
Australians, engage a host of foreigners, pay their
income taxes, fill concert halls with “paper,” run news-
papers and hog the market for radio weeklies as it
hogged the market for concerts in the case of Miss
Lawrence, all without reference to Parliament—or it
thinks it can, and that amounts to the same thing.
Australians are about to be stung by the taxation
gentry more severely than ever. Those who will suffer
most are people of small means who can never pass
their taxes on, and it is they—especially the sick, the
infirm and the aged—who depend most on broad-
casting.
Along with the rest of the nation, these helpless
people have a right to expect the national Govern-
ment to cushion the shock of the turns to be given to
the tax machine. The least the national Government
can do is to make the charge for a listener’s license
reasonable. A guinea is outrageous; fifteen shillings
would be more than enough for all legitimate purposes.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
On the Taxation Front.
The Sydney Government was forced to suspend its
insolent plans for collecting a hugely-increased relief
tax from salaries and wages, and for making huge
additions to the two taxes with which it smites annual
income, before introducing its Budget and before the
Commonwealth Government could come down with
its own increased imposts. Disappointed or dumb-
founded or something, it had its alleged Parliament
adjourned until September 19.
If the Parliament is of any use at all, it could
have been occupied in attending to war-time legisla-
tion and in making a show at least of tackling the
profiteer, who surged up immediately. It could also
have reduced to at least 1937-38 rates the salaries it
raised (by £205 p.a., dated back four months, in the
case of members) immediately after it was alleged that
the accounts for 1938-39 would show a surplus of
nearly £Booo—actually there was a deficit of
£3,750,000. But it is not that sort of Parliament.
The Commonwealth Budget was introduced on
Friday. Sales tax is up 1 p.c., income tax 10 p.c. and
company tax 6d. in the £ —to Is. 7.8 d. Beer, whisky,
rum, gin, petrol and benzol taxes have been increased
(excise on Australian beer goes up 3d. a gallon, to
25.), and new duties have been clapped on fuel oil and
kapok. Revenue is estimated at £101,940,000, expen-
diture at £101,916,000. Loan expenditure is set down
at £23,072,000.
The public is prepared for sacrifices, but it would
take them less unkindly if they were accompanied by
reduction of useless expenditure. Nothing of the kind
is definitely promised. Apparently the flock of Trade
Commissioners and Assistant Trade Commissioners
scattered over the Seven Seas in a fruitless effort to
correct unfavorable trade balances are to remain in
what must become sinecures. It is even proposed to
let the so-called National Travel Association have
£20,000, though, since there are Government Tourist
Bureaux galore, it has always been an excrescence
and while the country is at war it will have nothing
to do.
It is as plain as daylight that, however long the
war may last, there will have to be drastic cuts in
the cost of government —overgovernment rather.
Nevertheless, £2,020,000 is to be distributed in grants
among the three superfluous State Governments of
S.A., Westralia and Tasmania, all of which have
applied part of their grants to increase of Parliamen-
tary and Ministerial salaries.
War Precautions.
The National Security Bill was passed in the Common-
wealth Parliament on Friday morning after an 18-
hour sitting which ended at half-past eight. It was
debated with vigor, though not with acrimony. The
new freedom of discussion introduced by the Menzies
Government is healthy.
The Opposition, however, has a duty not to misuse
its liberty. Time is precious, and pressure of work on
Ministers and departmental officers will henceforward
be enormous.
The bill followed the lines of the War Precautions
Act, adding provisions from the British Emergency
Powers Act. It gives the Government authority to
exercise a tight control over every type of war activity.
At the same time, it precludes the raising of troops
by conscription for overseas service, except by statute,
and abolishes the death penalty in military law.
The Government is taking power to acquire
property other than land for national purposes, to
control aliens and their property, to apply alien regu-
lations to naturalised persons, to control the sale of
property and goods and the export of money and com-
modities, to fix prices of commodities and to direct
entry and search of private premises.
There was strong opposition to the vital clause
conferring powers to jnake emergency regulations.
Mr. Blackburn remarked that it was tantamount to
handing over to the Ministry not only the powers of
the Commonwealth Parliament but those of the States,
and moved an amendment limiting the clause to
matters specifically prescribed in the bill. It was
defeated by 31 votes to 26.
Mr. Spender, the Assistant-Treasurer, who. was in
charge of the bill, gave an assurance that all ordinary
legislation would be submitted to Parliament in the
ordinary way, and that special powers would be used
only in emergency. On a Labor amendment to limit
the operation of the Act to 12 months Mr. Thompson
and Mr. Wilson voted with the Opposition. The
original clause was preserved intact by only 29 votes to
27. Second reading had been carried to 34 to 26.
The general measures taken so far have been
sweeping. The R.A.N., on the outbreak of war, came
under R.N. command and is already at sea. The
militia force of 78,000 is being called up in batches
of 10,000 for a 16-day camp at which personnel will
be overhauled. A survey is being made of those men
who are essential in civil life, and they will be replaced
by volunteers.
There has been no move to implement those
Defence Act provisions which place every man between
18 and 60 under an obligation to serve in the Com-
monwealth, though Mr. Menzies declares that the Gov-
ernment may proceed with universal training and
service when it becomes “feasible.”
Enemy aliens were taken into custody during the
night following the outbreak of war for questioning
and, if necessary, internment. Some are already
interned. In accordance with the emergency regulations
a Judge with an advisory committee will hear appeals
against internment. The Prime Minister has appealed
to the public to refrain from treating as enemies
persons willing to live peaceably and obey the law.
Defence Minister Street has announced that civil
aircraft will be taken over by the R.A.A.F. for recon-
naissance purposes. R.A.A.F. squadrons are all at war
stations. Aircraft and munitions production has been
speeded up, supplies have been moved to suit strategic
conditions and communications have been perfected.
Aerodromes are now closed military areas under guard.
Enemy trading has been dealt with under a bill
separate from the Security Bill. Illegal traders become
liable to a fine of £5OO or a year’s imprisonment, and
goods and money involved may be confiscated.
Directors and employees are responsible for the actions
of corporations, and the Government is given power
to apply to the High Court for the appointment of
controllers of firms or corporations deemed likely to
commit offences. Prize Courts to deal with mercantile
marine matters are to be constituted.
A journalist, editor of the Adelaide ‘‘News,” has
been named Chief Censor. During the last war the
press was too much exposed to brasshats and professors.
Censorship applies to postal and telegraph as well as
published matter. A warning has been issued to radio
stations —now under control —that scare announce-
ments and heated blah apt to disturb the public mind
will be dealt with severely.
Lastly, a first move has been made to deal with
profiteering. Prices current at August 31 are to be fixed
in respect of a long list of proclaimed gods. While
seeking to avoid undue disturbance of business, the
Government intends to vest powers of control in a
Commonwealth authority, with a band of State price-
fixers to assist. Meantime, the Minister of Customs
may fix prices and acquire goods for resale.
Slime Mushes On.
During the Great War the authorities had to put
Hearst publications under a ban. On September 4
they interdicted an issue of a muckraking American
rag, “Time,” containing an article on Mussolini’s
daughter, the wife of his Foreign Minister —as dis-
graceful a concoction as has ever stained paper. This
did not prevent the “Australian Women’s Weekly”
coming out, in an issue dated September 9, with a
couple of columns of the poisonous stuff, though par-
ticular libellous matter that prompted the London
newsagents to veto distribution of the offal (that was
in the cables) was omitted.
The “Women’s Weekly” version was not banned.
It was issued from the office of the “Daily Telegraph,”
of Russian-alliance notoriety, which printed this on
July 5:
The one force that could really attack Japan at
home at present is the Russian air fleet at Vladivostok.
Real trouble with the Soviet is the last thing that Japan
wants. It is this that makes the extension of the
Anglo-Russian pact to Eastern Asia urgent.
Is there one rule for “Daily Telegraph” publications
and another for newspapers that try to assist the
Government by playing the game?
“Time” is one of the favorite organs of the
American sooler. Venomously anti-Chamberlain, it
“saw” the King and Queen ride through Quebec in a
bullet-proof car. It would be to the advantage of Aus-
tralia if it were here banned for the duration of the
war, together with such March of Slime films and
March of Slime radio records or “dramatisations” as
are apparently inspired by it or modelled on its style. A
recent March of Slime “dramatisation” was almost as
inimical to the interests of the Commonwealth as the
blackguardly attack on the Duce’s daughter.
Woo!, Wheat and Meat.
A satisfactory feature of war organisation has been
the prompt manner in which the wool, wheat and
meat situations are being handled by the British and
Australian Governments.
The 1939-40 wool season was about to open
when war broke out. Sydney sales were postponed.
Then it was announced that the British Govern-
ment would again take over the whole of the clip.
Wool is a vital war commodity, and Britain could not
run the risk of allowing it, manufactured or raw, to
find its way to Germany through neutral countries.
Moreover, war-time requirements are so great that
some form of rationing will probably be necessary as
between the Allies.
But the position is somewhat different this time
because of the growth of woollen manufacture in
Australia. Australian mills use in the vicinity of
300,000 bales, afid turn out over 35,000,000 yards of
fabrics and 1,500,000 blankets and rugs per annum.
Australian buyers, including re-exporters of scoured,
carbonised and repacked wool, are among the four
leading auction competitors at sales. Australian indus-
try must be protected ; and no doubt it will be. It would
be a distinct advantage to Britain and to the Com-
monwealth if provision were made to export more
wool in manufactured form. Last time, 'Australian
manufacturers paid appraised price, plus |d. per pound
delivery charge, plus j per cent, of value as an
appraisement fee.
It is said in wool circles that when prices come to
be fixed the Commonwealth Government will press
for a somewhat complicated plan ; part flat rate and
part profit-sharing scheme on a 50-50 basis in regard
to resale wool. The main thing for the growers is
that the price should be payable—last season, in
many districts, it was not.
Britain is also to buy the exportable surplus of
meat. The Meat Board executive and the War-time
Technical Committee have submitted a scheme, but
pending its adoption have advised lamb producers to
continue to market in the ordinary way, since it “can
be reasonably assumed that the contract price, when
announced, is unlikely to be below the equivalent of
that ruling in the U.K. before the outbreak of war.”
The chilled-meat trade will naturally be suspended
because of the uncertainty of the length of voyages.
Wheat arrangements are not yet complete. Nego-
tiations for the disposal of a large portion of the crop
are proceeding. And dairy produce is pretty sure to
be placed on the same footing as other commodities.
Export fruit will also be dealt with.
The U.K. authorities have fixed the maximum
butter price at 117 s. London. There have been trans-
fers of butter from store to store there under official
supervision. In Australia the export surplus, small at
present, will in a couple of months be heavy ; it
will then be imperative to bring dairy commodities
under the Imperial shipping control and foodstuff
schemes. Butter and cheese will probably be bought
through a pool, as in the last war.
New Guinea Is Ours.
In the reports of measures taken by the Common-
wealth Government and Parliament since the out-
break of war there has been no reference to the New
Guinea Mandated Territory.
It is 25 years since the Territory was taken from
Germany by a wholly Australian Navy and Austra-
lian citizen troops. Since 1920 Australia has held
it in trust for the League, faithfully adhering to the
conditions to which its delegates to the Peace Confer-
ence agreed—namely, that, while the islands should
be governed as if they were an “integral part of Aus-
tralia,” they should be open to the nationals of all
countries.
Germans more than any other foreigners have
taken advantage of League conditions. One German
mission alone ministers to nearly 200 villages. There
are German missionaries, planters, prospectors, com-
mercial men in the Territory, all treated, under the
law, as equals of the majority of Australian returned
soldiers who implemented the conquest of the Man-
date and its subsequent exploration, opening-up and
development.
In view of New Guinea’s important strategical
position, its resources in gold and timber and oil, its
large native population, and of the fact that colonial
claims are a definite issue with Germany, and would
certainly be a matter of first-rank negotiation if Ger-
many won the war, the situation calls for a prompt
incorporation of the place into the Commonwealth.
This would be received with cheers by resident whites
and natives alike.
The League, the Territory’s “official” controller,
is dead. It expired finally when its representative in
Danzig, Herr Burckhardt, was expelled by the Reich
administration on the outbreak of war.
The Assembly meeting due this month cannot be
held because all the main participants are otherwise
engaged.
Without Britain and the British Dominions,
France, Italy, Japan, China, Turkey, Austria and the
Scandinavian countries, there are only two alterna-
tives —either New Guinea belongs to us or it is under
the control of Liberia, Afghanistan and Bolivia and
their congeners.
No Australian will have much doubt about where
the right of ownership lies.
War-guilt.
“Conciliation was open to the end. Hitler would
have none of it.”
War yet again, in a world still rent and riven
With the scars of the conflict fought that wars
should cease!
Yet at least we know that none have struggled
and striven
Harder than we for peace.
We looked for faith in the faithless, truth in
the truthless,
Till came the day when all to be found or
heard
Was cold contempt for the solemn pledge, and
ruthless
Scorn for the plighted word.
War yet again, with its hell of maimings and
slaughters,
Its fell, untimely toll of a myriad lives!
War with the woe of the orphaned sons and
daughters,
The wail of the widowed wives!
Terror and torture in towns that smoke and
smoulder,
Smit with a hail of horrors from skies aflame!
Here is a burden we needs must share and
shoulder,
But never the shame and blame.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“El V.”: Fate plays some strange tricks
on the innocent. There is a well-known
Sydney professional man, Australian-
born with A.I.F. service but saddled with
a name which makes him sound like one
of Hitler’s aides-de-camp. Naturally his
admiring friends have never once for
months failed to greet him with a “heil”
or some such pleasantry, to his intense
wrath. And then right in the middle of
the week before war broke out he had
to injure an elbow, with the result that
he found himself decorated with a splint
which keeps his arm raised in a perpetual
Nazi salute.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: There’s one thing about
this new war—it is unlikely to be marked
by the crudities which besmirched the
diction of the vituperation of 1914-18.
Perhaps it is the civilising effect of the
radio. At any rate when one of The
Bulletin’s oldest soldiers set out to
express himself about an Enemy he
showed a nice turn of euphemy. “Him!”
he snorted indignantly. “That bloke
threw rice at his mother’s wedding!”
* * * *
“R.H.P.”: “General Prac” (B. 16/8/’39)
is astray in saying that drugs of the sul-
phanilamide group “can be bought by
all and sundry over any chemist’s
counter.” In Tas., anyhow, sulphanila-
mide and its derivatives are proclaimed
under the Poisons Act, and can be sold
only under prescription. The State Health
Department recently reminded the local
pill merchants of their obligations in this
regard.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Worth attention is Ber-
nard Shaw’s protest against the closing
of cinemas and theatres. He calls it a
piece of unimaginative stupidity, and
suggests that the authorities should im-
mediately set to work to provide new
theatres afid cinemas where they are lack-
ing. “What agent of Hitler is it,” he
asks, “who has suggested that we should
cower in darkness and terror for ‘the
duration’?” I was in London at the out-
break of the 1914 Armageddon, when
every wowser in the country saw the
awful disaster as a golden opportunity to
inflict his or her crank ideas on the help-
less soldiers. Some wrote to the “Times”
suggesting that smoking and the drinking
of alcoholic liquors should be prohibited
in the army because they affected marks-
manship.
* * .» #
“Craiser”: A light-hearted interlude in
Melbourne last week was a spectacle in
St. Kilda-road which raised smiles from
passing tram-users. A spick-and-span
sentry with fixed bayonet was marching
to and fro in front of the huge military
barracks. Every time he turned he
dragged with him like a comet a tail of
six or seven infants, some pulling prams
and all speechless with adoration. Some
were sucking dummies.
* * * *
“Taurus”: Anyone who has been to
Jervis Bay (N.S.W.) will have driven
through “Pacific City,” although they may
not have noticed it. Jervis Bay was
originally intended to be the port for
Canberra, and in the early days of
Federation some enterprising gentleman
bought up about 500 acres of the adjoin-
ing countryside for a song, had a com-
plete city designed and the plans drawn
up. It was a perfect garden city, and
when he took the plans home to England
the whole estate was disposed of with-
out any trouble. The site is still known
as Pacific City, the name he gave it, but,
apart from the main motor road which
passes through it, the only indications of
its civic character are a multitude of
street signs pointing desperately into
almost impenetrable undergrowth and a
couple of “Land for Sale” hoardings.
It is probably the only city in the world
which has not and never did have a single
inhabitant.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: A few extracts from the
wisdom of the prophets, as delivered on
August 30 from Australian radio
stations:
2UE: “We have won the war of nerves
and saved the world from physical war.
We have to thank President Roosevelt for
having stopped war last time.”
2KY: “Four to one against war!” There
would be “a super-appeasement confer-
ence” directed against Soviet Russia.
2GB: According to a thoroughly reliable
Berlin journalist, trusted not only by other
journalists but by Governments, Hitler was
faced with growing resentment among his
people Hitler did not know how to act,
but he would take the course most likely
to save the Nazis from being overthrown.
“We can all sleep soundly in our beds
to-night.”
2FC: “There is only one thing German
workers will not do for Hitler, and that
is to go to war for him.” The holding up
of the Bremen in New York harbor showed
the attitude of the United States.
Still, one thing has to be conceded. The
prophets were running true to radio form.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Decided in an Adelaide
court that the newspaper heading
“Drunken Driver Charge Dismissed:
Conflict of Evidence, Say Justices,” is not
libellous. The report in the “Advertiser”
was admittedly a full and fair one, but
was claimed to be “colored by the head-
ing, which gave a wrong impression of
the proceedings as a whole.” The Court
held, however, that the heading alone was
harmless, since it contained no name;
and that anyone reading on to find the
name would learn that the “drunken
driver charge” had not been sustained.
The whole is a fair and accurate account
of what took place in the court, and as
such is privileged.”
* * * »
“Wodgil”: Our “allies” the Greeks
have done it again. British guarantees
and “credits” notwithstanding, they are
neutral, and their neutrality is such that
war “discussions and comments in cafes,
streets, trams, buses, trains and all public
places are absolutely forbidden.” This
points to an extreme case of cold feet
on the dictator’s part, for the bellicose
Greek cafe orator is famed throughout
the Levant. Ward Price was in a Greek
port in 1917 when a line of cafe orators
was thundering against the English and
the French in the main street. A mine-
sweeper, commanded by a grim old Tyne-
side skipper, limped in at night. Sizing
up the situation, he got his searchlight
to work and played it on the cafe orators,
going methodically from one group to
“Yes, ’Orace, the ideer's bin in me mind fer years!"
another and back along the line. Ward
Price observed that for the first time in
the history of modern Greece all Greek
cafe oratory forthwith ceased and deter-
mined, as the lawyers say. My war
memory of Greeks concerns the villain-
ous daubs of Constantine and Venizelos
they hung up in their fishshops. When
’Tino turned against the Allies his coun-
terfeit presentment came down and was
not seen again.
* * * *
“Ad”: The hard-luck story of Eric
Kolmer, refugee: Graduated in medicine
at Konigsberg Uni. in Germany, and was
a specialist on ear, nose and throat. Went
to China and practised at Shanghai and
Tientsin. Applied in Sydney for regis-
tration, but the Medical Board (though
addressing him as “Dr. Kolmer”) said its
yearly quota of admissions was full. Was
advised in Melbourne that he could prac-
tise in S.A. if careful not to use the title
“Dr.” Started in Adelaide as “Electro-
Medical Institute: Mr. Eric Kolmer,
formerly doctor of medicine in Europe.”
Fined £7 in the Police Court for “hold-
ing himself out as a medical practitioner.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: To short-wave radio list-
eners, accustomed to eavesdropping on
the once-amateur bands, the Sahara-
like silence where, until Saturday morn-
ing, September 2, 1939, Tom, Dick and
Harry were to be heard discussing tech-
nicalities and yarning with fellow-
amateurs overseas, is striking. Gone are
those voices and Morse keys, many of
them now turned to more serious matters.
First realisation that peace held only by
the slenderest hair came to me when
American amateurs were heard discuss-
ing the suspension of amateur radio acti-
vity in England. That was ample indi-
cation that Australians and other British
Empire amateurs would soon be silent.
The order came the next morning, and
silence descended. To those who remem-
ber the growth of short-wave radio by
the efforts of the early-day amateurs, the
presence now of only a few amateur sig-
nals from neutral countries is reminiscent
of the 32-metre DX days, before inter-
national law robbed radio amateurs of
wide-frequency territory and crammed
them into small spaces. The difference is
that the Americans are now to be heard
talking mainly among themselves. With
the desirability of censorship of the air,
even in neutral countries, one wonders
how long it will be before the F.C.C. of
U.S.A. applies the gag to American
amateurs..
* * * *
“V.S.”: “Ortho” (B. 30/8/’39) is prob-
ably misjudging his M.A. pal for despis-
ing “grammatical niceties” by snorting
at the man who said “It is I.” If pal got
his M.A. degree at the Sydney Uni. when
Mungo MacCallum was Professor of
Modern Languages, he would have been
taught to use “It is me,” corresponding
to the French “C’est moi.”
* * * *
“T.”: In one respect —and there are
others—this war differs from all previous
wars fought by English-speaking people
in my time; and my memory goes back
beyond the Spanish-American campaign.
With that came at least one spirited bit
of verse, “Kelly and Burke and Shea.”
The struggle with Brother Boer brought
us a dozen rousing pieces, among them
Kipling’s “Absentminded Beggar,” his
“Lichtenberg,” mentioned in a recent
Bulletin (“Smells are surer than sounds
or sights To make your heart-strings
crack”), his lines on Joubert (“And o’er
his grave, the grave that holds a man,
Our deep-tongued guns shall answer his
once more”), Qur own Essex Evans’s
“Elands River” and Johnny Sandes’s
“Rooiebatje Singing on the Road.” At
the beginning of the Great War the poets
didn’t wait to be mobilised ; they mobil-
ised themselves: in Britain, Kipling,
Brooke, Watson, Newbolt and Julian
Grenfell (his “Into Battle,” like Brooke’s
sonnet, has lived), and in Australia Law-
son, “Dryblower” Murphy and “Cross-
cut” Wilson. As always, Kipling struck
the popular note.
For all we have and are,
For all our children’s fate,
Stand up and take the war l
The Hun is at the gate.
But where are the singing birds now?
All silent. War and patriotism have
ceased to inspire. Perhaps poetry is itself
dead. Writers of alleged verse drivel un-
intelligibly about gasworks or stridently
about Communism.
U.S.S.R., how wonderful you are!
Yes, the bard who harped the warrior to
battle or cheered him on from a safe
distance —like Tennyson, who sent thou-
sands of copies of “The Charge of the
Light Brigade” to the Crimea for distri-
bution among the soldiers shivering in
the trenches, having been told that they
liked it —is gone and has left no suc-
cessors.
NOOTRAL.
“ ‘Absolute neutrality’ has been proclaimed in the
U.S.A.”
Amurrica, protected by so many miles of sea,
I’m proud of you, my country, an’ 1 guess
you’re proud of me.
You ought to be, at any rate; for in my
fashion I
Have kept the faith, and helped to keep Old
Glory flyin’ high.
By shootin’ with a tireless mouth I’ve fought
in Freedom’s cause,
And scarified them Nazi guys who trampled
on her laws.
If I could meet ’em face to face, a thousand
times I’ve said,
I’d knahck ’em for a row of pins. Yep, I*d
be seein’ red.
At that we’ve slammed ’em good an’ hard
with everything we had.
Our novelists, our publicists have gaht ’em
hoppin’ mad.
Our Hollywood, our magazines have sheeted
home their lies;
Our G-men have unmasked their plots an’
gathered in their spies;
Our radio, our President are down on all their
tricks;
And every week they hear a blast from Secre-
tary Ickes.
La Guardia, too —ah, that’s the boy that rakes
’em aft an’ fore;
An’ Eddie Cantor’s mobilised a Bust-an’-
Buttock Corps.
Nice work, and Hitler knows it; I kin almost
see him blench;
But, dang my cats, it’s wasted on the British
an’ the French!
I never knoo or read about so pitiful a crew:
Daladiay an’ Chamberlain are yaller, through
an’ through.
It ain’t no use, you tabloid boys—call off your
soolin’ dogs!
You’ll never put intestines in the Limeys or
the Frogs.
We’ll have to save ’em once agin—they’re
paralysed with fright—
Go back across the Herrin’ Pond an’ show
’em how to fight.
I’m toonin’-in to Paris now —a useless toon,
no doubt.. .
Gee . . . who’d ’a’ thought it? . . . Dash my
buttons ... “War has broken out...
The poiloos an’ the English lads, they march
with mournful pride
Past storied fields of battle where their soldier
fathers died!
They go to meet a felon foe”... Zat so?
Then, by the powers,
Their Yurrupean ruckus sure is no consarn
of ours ...
Here’s Franklin with a fireside talk . . . We’re
nootral, deed an’ word! . . .
I’m with you, Mr. President. Best talk I
ever heard.
N.S.W.
J. HIRAM SOOLER.


“Colbun”: Even the Society for Being
Very Tired of Shakspeare, which flour-
ished in Sydney in the ’nineties, would
have to hand it to the Bard as a prophet.
In the fourth scene of Act IV of “Ham-
let” that depressed Danish lad gets sticky-
beaking into the destination of a column
of troops, and is told by the captain that
they are bound for Poland. “Goes it
against the main of Poland, sir, Or for
some frontier?” he asks. Instead of tell-
ing him to mind his own blanky business
the indiscreet warrior lets out that they
go but to a little patch of ground that
hath in it “no profit but the name.”
“Why, then,” says Ham., “the Polack
never will defend it.” “Too bloomin’
right the cow will,” replies the captain,
or words to that effect. “ ’Tis already
garrisoned.”
* * * *
“D.F.”: A few remarks on learning
the language by Margaret Matches,, who
dropped in from U.S.A. and has written
a book about us and New Guinea: “It
took me three days in Sydney to get the
hang of the language around me. It has
the same foundation as English; indeed,
the printed word looks like English. But
1 defy any Briton or American who has
dropped upon Sydney to understand im-
mediately its Anglo-Cockney. And I was
just as unintelligible to the people
there... .Yet Sydney is something of a
Yankee with a Cockney accent. And I
do not know that our influence has im-
proved it.”
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Australian Govern-
ments might well follow the lead which
M.L. has given in dealing with drunken
drivers of motor vehicles. The Fern-
landers’ Transport Law Amendment Act
provides for cancellation of a first
offender’s license for a year at least, and
for any subsequent offence at least three
years, plus necessity to apply for special
permission of the Court before a new
license may be issued. Discretionary
powers are granted for special cases, but
names of persons convicted of driving
“As soon as We get our torpedo toobs We're off ter sea as a myst’ry ship!”
whilst intoxicated cannot be suppressed
by any Court. It is an offence to take
an intoxicant while in a public passenger
vehicle, or to offer it to the driver or
another passenger. Licenses of accident-
prone drivers may be reviewed by the
Commissioner of Transport. Adoption
and enforcement of a similar measure by
our numerous Governments would save
scores of Australian lives yearly and
hundreds of injuries.
# * * *
“Ente Marid”: If the Polish campaign
is doing nothing else it is at least pro-
ducing some fine, freshly-minted atrocity
stories. The one I like best is about the
new German habit of filling up children’s
balloons with deadly poison gas and
dropping them from bombers over Polish
villages to destroy the local tots. Well,
if it serves no other purpose it at least
may cause a few casualties among Ger-
man radio announcers. One Deutscher
who mentioned the matter from Berlin
swallowed so many gutturals that he
must have been something like a toy
balloon himself when he finished his com-
mination.
* * * *
“El V.”: Listening those early Sep-
tember nights, first to Hitler addressing
the Reichstag and later to Chamberlain’s
address to the Commons, one could not
help feeling struck with the difference in
epoch between modern Britain and
modern Germany. “I myself the
Fiihrer —I am a soldier, too. I have put
on my fighting coat. One word I have
never learned and that is capitulation....
If necessary, I will give my life for my
country.” What would happen to the
English Prime Minister who turned up
in uniform in the Commons and in that
mood? Probably the House would hovvl
itself sick with mirth. Nothing like it
has happened in the Commons since
fat Charlie Fox wept in the House when
Burke flung away his friendship. The
days of Hitlerian rhetoric passed in Eng-
land when Burke flung his dagger on the
carpet crying “There’s French fraternity
for you. Such is the weapon which
French Jacobins would plunge into the
heart of our beloved King.” Even the
eighteenth century could not stomach it,
and Sheridan ruined the gesture with his
remark: “The honorable and gallant
gentleman, I see, has brought his knife
with him, but where is his fork?”
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: The part played by radio
broadcasting in events leading up to the
Hitler war is something that almost makes
pioneer radio engineers wish that radio
hadn’t got past the spark days. Since
the wireless telephone was loosed upon
a suffering world, about the only people
who have contributed to peace by radio’s
spoken words have been the amateurs.
Now it seems likely that comrades of the
amateur radio world in various countries
will be fated to meet behind the barrier
of deadly weapons on land, sea and in
the air. The microphone aided Hitler’s
cause in a manner hitherto impossible in
history. His voice has screamed his
“When do I start studyin' from the nood?”
grievances at every ‘‘peace rally”
at Nuremberg, and his eve-of-war
Reichstag fury of September, 1939,
was broadcast to the world. Citi-
zens of Germany’s larger cities have
had the voices of Hitler and his hench-
men blared at them from powerful street-
corner loudspeakers for years, and the
Zeesen short-wavC transmitters have
hurled Goebbels’s furphies around the
earth with multi-lingual versatility. In
countries of peaceful outlook irrespon-
sible “news commentators” have been
permitted to inflict on a tortured ether
the wildest fantasies of speculation.
One good outcome of the war-time
censorship of news is that such romancers
get blue-pencilled before they are allowed
to yap.
* * *
“Colbun”: The rhythmic stamping
which has become a feature of the dance-
crazes of the moment is likely to bring
down the house quite literally. The
“Lambeth Walk” has necessitated re-lay-
ing the floor of a popular New York
restaurant, and the London County
Council has barred it in upstair halls
because the whole building begins to rock
when a hundred couples get busy at
“Oi-ing.” Notices are displayed asking
dancers to break step, on the principle
which requires a military column to do
so when crossing a bridge. It rather
looks as if the new “Boomps-a-Daisy”
corroboree is a subtle attempt to side-
track the difficulty by substituting for the
floor the nature-padded ends of the dance
partners, which are built to take up
shocks, anyhow.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Sydneysiders deplore the fact
that the shores of the Harbor are largely
in the hands of private owners. It is the
other way about on the Yarra. Only 20
p.c. of the banks of the river is privately
owned, and the Local Government Act
gives the Metropolitan Board power, for
river improvement works, to purchase or
take on lease, by agreement or compul-
sion, any land or right of easement. So
almost nothing stands in the way of the
Municipal Association’s present intense
enthusiasm for “beautification.” Locks
are proposed below Heidelberg so that
canoeists can float about with their girls
on artificial lakes, and schemes for cut-
ting the banks straight and removing the
present lovely boskage and replacing it
with lawns and gardens are festering in
the minds of the beautifiers. Some day,
no doubt, most of the Yarra will be as
monotonously ugly as the stretches that
have already been beautified. Nobody
wants to erect blocks of flats and neon
light signs on the banks of the Yarra,
but that won’t prevent its becoming as
commonplace as is much of the foreshore
of Sydney Harbor, because every time a
Bumble sees a heavenly bit of Nature like
the stretch from Studley Park to War-
randyte his fingers itch to make it like
his suburban front garden.
WE ARE SEVEN.
Seven widely-separated estimable gents
At the centre of the stage in seven Parliaments ;
Seven Speakers, each ensconced in a Chair
ornate,
Laying down the rules and regulations of
debate;
Seven sets of Ministers, raking in their tin—
Sliprails regularly lowered to let another in;
Seven Opposition heads, picked to earn their
perks
By inserting spanners in the legislative works.
Seven watching galleries, where our pressmen
sit
Catching pearls of wisdom and transcribing
gems of wit;
Seven “Hansard” staffs employed, careless of
the cost,
Lest a line be missing or a single word be lost;
Seven lots of lawmakers —singularly few
Disinclined to agitate for a rise in screw;
Seven Budgets, much alike, serving but to show
That the heavier we’re taxed all the more we
owe.
Seven scattered Capitals, only needed that
Each of seven Governors may have a habitat.
Seven'—lucky number, certain classics certify—
Though I fancy few of you know the reason
why.
Seven Wonders of the World! Greece’s Seven
Sages!
Names to hold in memory and echo down the
ages.
Yet, where government’s concerned, figures
shriek to heaven
Of the thumping price we pay—just for Being
Seven!
N.S.W.
PIPAROS.


2#-
m
10 for 9d* 20 for V6O
E 1865
It’s their extra touch of quality -
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA
fa 10*-faff
m
SPE CI A LIY
PRE VENT
am
POLITICAL POINTS
Wholly unwarranted Commonwealth
Budget items are £20,000 for the
“National” Travel Association, which will
have nothing to do that the swarm of
Government Tourist Bureaux can’t do ;
£44,000 for the League, now extinct—
£lo,ooo more than in 1937-38 ; £2135 for
“representation” at Geneva —£500 more
than in ’3B ; and £l4OO for delegates to the
International Labor Conference —increase
since ’3B, £5OO. And for Australia House
£77,000 is provided, including £37,640 for
salaries. Even fifty thousand would be
gross extravagance.
It is evident from the Budget papers
that a lot can be done to save on both
small and large items. Payments to States
this year are set down at £15,575,000,
which includes £4,350,000 for “Federal-
aid roads and works.” Special grants
are: S.A., £995,000; W.A., £595,000;
Tasmania, £430,000. For the Govern-
ments of those States this represents easy
money ; for the taxpayers of the Com-
monwealth, plain extortion.
Strange that Malcolm MacDonald was
left out of the War Cabinet. He did well
as Dominions Secretary, and his recent
measures in Palestine have conciliated not
only Arabs but Egyptians. Moreover, he
is only 38, and at least one man under 40
should have been included. Certainly
Hore-Belisha is 41, but Chamberlain is
70, Simon 66, Chatfield 66, Churchill .65,
Hankey 62, Hoare 59, Halifax and Kings-
ley Wood 58.
The U.S.A., which was going to do
such wonderful things for imperilled
democracy the Stunt Press has been
spinning that yarn for years—is nootral.
So nootral that it won’t complete con-
tracts made with the nations that are
fighting for democracy; won’t deliver
aeroplanes ordered by Australia among
others; won’t even let resident French,
Poles, Britons, Canadians or Australians
go abroad “with the intention of enlist-
ing.” Belgium also is neutral, but it is
neutrality with guts. “Our neutrality
does not oblige us to betray our con-
science,” said the re-elected President of
the Chamber; and he prayed for “the
triumph of peace and reason over brute
force.” And the deputies cheered.
In Roosevelt’s declaration of neutrality
the belligerents were named —Germany,
Britain, France, Poland, India, Australia
and New Zealand. Eire had previously
contracted out of the war, and Hertzog
proposed to do the same on behalf of
South Africa. Smuts, who was Hertzog’s
Minister of Justice, challenged him on it,
and the Government was beaten by 80
to 67. The Canadian Government left
the issue to Parliament, meanwhile organ-
ising for home defence. South Africa
and Canada are now belligerents.
From Molongloside:
The first war-session began well. There is
plenty of difference of opinion but no ill-feeling
in debate. Any fears which Labor had about
the manner in which the P.M. would handle the
House have been dispelled; the old “superi-
ority complex” Menzies is dead; the new
Menzies is moderate, courteous and—except
where Dr. Page is concerned —conciliatory.
A national Ministry was suggested, but
Curtin wouldn’t come in. A coalition Ministry
was discussed; but Page’s April attack on
Menzies and his fear that a Menzies-led war-
time Government could not “function in such
a way as to secure the greatest measure of
co-operation in the community” were recalled
by the P.M., and there was no withdrawal on
the doctor’s part. Meantime, the C.P. asked
the breakaways—Fadden, Corser, Collins and
Badman —to join up again. They replied that
they would do so when Menzies’s plan for a
composite Ministry was agreed to. Then the
C.P. received a letter from the P.M. making it
plain that he must choose his own Ministers,
that he would not bargain as to numbers and
that Page would be unacceptable. Abbott and
Killen, representing organisations supporting
the C.P., came in as friendly interveners,
whereupon Page’s resignation as leader was
offered.
It is obviously wrong that an Administration
without a party majority in either House should
run the country during the war, especially
as there are palpable misfits. Cameron, Fadden
and McEwen should be in Cabinet posts. The
matter will be settled this week.
Exit Lang as leader of the N.S.W.
Labor party—or one of them —after 16
tumultuous years. When the leadership
was put to the vote McKell’s score was
13 one up on Lang and Heffron's
seven. In the second ballot the Heffron-
ites threw their support to McKell and
out went Lang, smiling with difficulty—
he always did smile with difficulty—and
promising the winner “co-operation and
assistance.” Baddeley, faithful to the end
—or near it—remains deputy leader, and
the minor positions were equally divided
among Langites and Heffronites.
Sydney’s lady Assemblyman, Mrs.
Quirk, has been named treasurer of the
“Who says they never come back ? We’re coming back.”
reunited State Labor party. That should
ensure her re-election for Balmain,
which would have been doubtful had
the faction fight been prolonged.
McKell, Lang’s successor, served in
two of the three Lang Ministries. Assist-
ant Treasurer in the first, he was abroad
on loan business when Lang dismissed
Mutch, McTiernan, Lazzarini, Fitzgerald,
Flannery, Dunn, Cann and Coates. In
his absence the young man was included
in the reconstructed Administration, but
on reading that McKell had told a Lon-
don correspondent he was not going to
“follow Mr. Lang into the wilderness”
the Big Fellow struck his name off the
list on the eleventh day. On returning
to Sydney, McKell said he hadn’t said it.
Recent events have scotched two
whopping lies copied by the Stunt Press
from New York Jew rags they have
imitated so abjectly. One was that the
Hoover Government would have pitched
into Japan in 1931 —as a diversion from
depresh. perhaps—if J. Bull hadn’t got
cold feet. The other was that Russia was
all ready to rescue the Czechs a year ago
when Britain and France scuttled away—
Litvinov said so.
Darkness has fallen on Litvinov since
he had to make way for Molotov, of the
Nazi-Communist alliance. The Poles say
he is in one of the places where Com-
munism enlightens the world by pumping
bullets in the back of the neck.
Great Daily outbreak-of-war leaders
were unconsciously, of course close
copies of those published on a similar
occasion 25 years ago. Drawing the
sword with reluctance, the Allies had
gone to the aid of a victim of naked and
brutal aggression who now appealed to
them for deliverance. They had no
quarrel with the German people ; one of
their war aims was the liberation of the
German people; they would never
sheathe the sword until they freed it and
the world from a cruel and arrogant
regime. The only material difference was
in the name of the regime—Hitler instead
of Hohenzollern.
Sydney gasped and then grinned when
it read the list of principal shareholders,
other than originals, in the company
which is to resuscitate “Smith’s Weekly ’:
a film knight, a shipping knight who is
a company director, three other company
directors, a stockbroker and a cinema
theatre man. And all have swarmed to
the rescue because there must be “a popu-
lar outlet for the expression of demo-
cratic principles.” There have been stun-
ning casualties in the newspaper world,
and The Bulletin wishes the exponents
of democratic principles all the luck their
enterprise will need.
Dunstan and Mair continue to differ
on almost every subject that crops up.
Having found it expedient to pigeonhole
his plans for digging into the taxpayer’s
pocket for several more millions, Mair
shut up his Parliament till September 19
(year not stated, but people would prefer
2000 a.d.). Dunstan kept going and in-
troduced a “National” Security Bill.
“Provincial” would be preferable, but,
since one of the objects is “regulating and
controlling the supply and prices of com-
modities,” Victorians are in no mood to
quarrel about terms.
It was like the Sydney Parliament to
go out of action just when profiteers were
sharpening their beaks. Dunstan’s idea
is that profiteering can be curbed by
regulation. The case calls rather for an
amendment of the Crimes Act or the
Victorian equivalent; penalty, gaol with-
out the option, with a maximum of ten
years.
The Commonwealth Government is
calling up the militia in drafts of “ap-
proximately 10,000” for “16 days’ train-
ing at war stations.” There is to be no
immediate increase in the number of
78,000 because “training and equipment
of additional troops” are “not immedi-
ately practicable.” To a country at war in
no danger of invasion no defence
measure should be "impracticable.
“The Government will not hesitate as
it becomes feasible to reintroduce an
effective scheme of universal training and
service.” —Prime Minister to Parliament.
Scullin was present, Scullin, whose Gov-
ernment made the “suspension” of
national training by administrative fiat
almost his first job. That was one of the
most lamentable things ever done in Aus-
tralia, and it was done in the fatuous
belief that Australia wouldn’t need a
national army any more, since the
League would protect it. The Swiss, who
have given the League house-room ever
since it set up as a sort of international
peace force without writs or weapons,
kept their national army, and the citizen
soldiers of Switzerland are now in posi-
tion on the frontiers, ready for anyone
who comes looking for trouble.
Back in the Queensland Railway De-
partment as Minister of Transport,
Jimmy Larcombe obliged with the finan-
cial results for the year to June 30: earn-
ings, £1,588,400; interest, £1,641,700;
deficit, £53,400. But as £28,000,000 was
“written off capital” in Moore’s time, the
loss was really £1,150,000 or so. Jimmy
didn’t mention the trifling matter of the
£28,000,000, preferring to rhapsodise on
the record of the Government that re-
called him to office and to riot in adjec-
tives (capable, vigorous, progressive,
excellent, splendid, wonderful) and
nouns (energy, enterprise, vision, imagi-
nation “and other necessary Govern-
mental faculties”).
From the August report of the well-
informed Imperial Policy Group:
The constant exit of refugees is the
most wonderful cover for an espionage
system that any country could wish for.
The German authorities employ this
method freely and frequently. It is sur-
prising what a large proportion of refugees
find their way at a very early date into
political circles in the capitals of the demo-
cratic States, and in some cases how quickly
they appear to acquire an influence which,
if at the disposal of a potential enemy,
might prove extremely dangerous.
Passed on to Canberra, with acknow-
ledgments and compliments.
According to the Sydney Japanese
Chamber of Commerce, Japan’s Budget
for 1939-40 will provide for expenditure
of £368,000,000 Australian, of which
£255,000,000 will be revenue, taxation
being increased by about £45,000,000.
The balance will be raised by national
bond issues. Japan has a major war on
its hands, but it has only one Govern-
ment. Last year Australia’s six States
alone spent £126,241,000 from revenue
and £15,612,000 from loan.
The Census Office estimates that about
70,000 names will go on the register of
aliens. The 1933 count showed the num-
ber at 60,259. Since then 41,000 have
come in and 31,130 have gone out.
Mr. Frederic Ehrenfried Baume, J.P.,
is on the air again. After Munich Ehren-
fried was the boldest of the anti-
Chamberlain radio boys till his office
intervened. Previously he interviewed
Trotsky in Mexico and, premising that
Trot, exhibited “an extraordinary know-
ledge of Australian social conditions,”
he conveyed that wandering Jew’s mes-
sage to Australia: “Support for a war
of liberation by the Chinese nation
against the Japanese plunderers represents
one of the most important considerations
for the defence of the independence of
Australia and New Zealand.”


STUDY IN EVOLUTION.


TO-DAY... BUY AN ENGLISH TYPEWRITER
IMPERIAL
Standard
Portable
TYPEWRITERS
&
are
made at LEICESTER, in
ENGLAND.
o
The Finest Made Typewriters in the
World,
e
Telephone or Write
STATE DISTRIBUTORS.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Dobell Pty., Ltd., 107 Pitt Street, Sydney;
Johnson & Hey, Newcastle and Northern Districts Agents, 37 Hunter
Street, Newcastle. QUEENSLAND; L. Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd., 47
Creek Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA: Geo. Raitt & Co.. Ltd., 467
Collins Street, Melbourne. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Holdsworth and
Coy., Ltd., 61. Grenfell Street, Adelaide. WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Bur ridge & Warren, Ltd., 69 King Street, Perth. TASMANIA: J. O.
Me?bee Pty., Ltd., 99 Collins Street. Hobart. NEW ZEALAND
AGENTS: Armstrong- & Springhall, Ltd., Wellington, Auckland,
Christchurch, Dunedin and Wanganui.
DON'T TAKE
OUR WORD—
INSPECT ONE
HAMPTON COURT
KING’S C R OSS, S Y D N E Y, N. S. W.
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
• Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
K
m
tty*
mi
Eld
ItLJ
IUJ
ILtl
ILU
gs
mm
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates: Single Room
with private bath
from 10/6 per
night. Suites from
£l/1/- per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARUNGHURST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
PERSONAL ITEMS
One of the first casualties in the war
was young Peter, Lord Loughborough, 21,
son of Sheila Chisholm, Harry Chisholm’s
daughter, whose family name has been
linked with "blood horses and Shorthorn
cattle in N.S.W. for over a century. The
parents’ marriage was a romance of the
last Great War, and the elder of the two
sons of the marriage, Lord Lough-
borough that was, is Earl of Rosslyn.
The senior Loughborough died some
years ago. His wife has married again—
to John Milbanke, 11th baronet, whose
father, while severely wounded, won a
V.C. at Colesberg, S’Africa, for rescuing
a 10th Hussar under heavy fire, and
was afterwards killed on Gallipoli.
Alwyn Uren Tonking, Chief Secretary
of N. S. Wales in the lately-reconstructed
Mair Cabinet, has been member for
Orange, where he is a successful farmer
and orchardist, for seven years. Originally
he was a schoolteacher, and taught in
CHIEF SECRETARY TON KING.
various high schools for many years. His
service in the Great War was dis-
tinguished and earned him a commission.
Douglas Berry Copland, C.M.G., a
Litt.D. of Melbourne, Queensland and
Harvard universities, and Professor of
Commerce at Melbourne Uni., steps into
a £1750-a-year job as adviser to the Com-
monwealth Prime Minister. He is a large,
solemn Maorilander who believes that
the motive power which moves the globe
consists of the purest economic theory.
Mr. Menzies will have no reason to com-
plain that his henchman does not take
his job seriously.
W. J. McKell, who succeeds J. T. Lang
as leader of the N. S. Wales Parlia-
mentary Labor party, though born in
the country at Pambula, is a product of
Surry Hills and Redfern. As an appren-
tice to boilermaking at Mort’s Dock
he organised his fellow-trainees and rep-
resented them before the Arbitration
Court. He has been member for Red-
fern for 22 years, and (having qualified
as a barrister early in his Parliamentary
career) was Minister of Justice in the
Cabinets of Storey, Dooley and Lang. In
1927 he had a spell as Assistant Treasurer
in addition to his Justice portfolio. He’s
48, used to do a good deal of boxing,
and was addicted to football.
“El V.” salutes Britain’s new C.-in-C.:
Nobody will have any excuse to shout
“brass-hat” at J. S. S. P. Vereker, Viscount
Gort, who at 53 becomes C.-in-C. of Britain’s
forces in the new Great War. He was 28
when the last one broke out and an A.D.C.
to the general in command of London district.
Inside four years he was mentioned in
dispatches several times, wounded four times,
won the y.C., the D.S.O. and bar and the
M.C. He is a tight, wiry, active, quick-moving
fellow, highly reminiscent in his manner and
general make-up of Philip Goldfinch, g.m. of
the C.S.R., but gifted with a thatch and
subaltern’s moustache as red as the Soviet
banner. A bad man to cross, but a splendid
man to work with, the service says. He is the
sixth viscount and eighth baronet of his line.
Ihe first was one of Marlborough’s brigadiers
—killed at Maiplaquet. The family is Irish,
much married into good, honest fighting
families like the O’Gradys and Smyths. The
title has had more than once to be switched
to the female side. One of the family per-
quisites for generations was the Limerick seat
—one successor to the title held it for 45 years
and another for 27 years.
The sea-going destinies of the British
Navy in the present war will be in the
hands of an American b.y birth. Admiral
Sir Dudley Pound was born in Boston,
U.S.A., 62 years ago, but was educated
in England, and entered the Navy as a
cadet. At Jutland he commanded the
Colossus. He has held almost every im-
portant Admiralty post, including that of
Second Sea Lord, and at the time of his
latest appointment as First Sea Lord was
Commander-in-Chief in the Mediter-
ranean.
Rode into the sunset a few days ago,
at 72, Duncan Ferguson, of one of the
pioneer families of the Darling Downs.
He was a great lover and judge of horse-
flesh and a splendid rider, and no show-
ring on the Downs was complete without
Duncan and his sturdy youngsters on
their stylish ponies. Sons Colin and Ken
are carrying on. Only daughter Jessica
married Randolph Bedford’s son Eric
16 years ago.
An Australian who is revisiting the
land of his birth after an absence of
20 years is Prof. E. G. Moll, who occupies
the Chair of Literature at Oregon Uni.,
U.S.A. He comes to Sydney to spend a
year as lecturer at the Teachers’ College,
Sydney Uni.
It was a Maorilander who performed a
major operation on Grade Fields in Eng-
land recently. W. N. Searle is a native
of Oamaru, educated at Waitaki B.H.S.
He is now obstetrical surgeon at West-
minster Hospital, London, and Registrar
of the Chelsea Hospital for Women. A
brother is rector of Nelson College
(M.L.), which turned out Lord Ruther-
ford, Frank Milner and other notables.
J. M. McColl, Lieut.-Commander, “re-
tired” (though only 43), went from Adel-
aide School of Mines to Williamstown
(Vic.) Naval Depot, and later served as
marine engineer in the Commonwealth
line. He has now been made senior in-
spector of steam boilers in the Factories
Department of S.A.
The only part of Melbourne City
Council’s Spring Carnival which is likely
to survive the shock of war is
the performance of “Hiawatha.” The
producer of the London presentation,
T. C. Fairbairn, engaged to conduct
the huge local choir at the Exhibition
Building, has just arrived and ex-
pressed himself as delighted with the
way the choristers had been got into
coalition. Fairbairn is England’s leading
producer of dramatised music.
P. B. Jenkin, who has been given the
job of chief censor, was born in the bush
in the north of Vic-
toria, started on the
Melbourne “Herald,”
left it to become a
soldier in the last war,
and returned to his
old paper as Federal
roundsman. There-
after he was in turn
chief of staff, the
“Rouseabout” of a
daily column of gos-
sip, and magazine
editor. He went to
Perth to edit the
“Daily News” for two
years, and, returning
to the “Herald,” left
that paper again to
accompany the “Star”
on its ill-fated short
flight under “Argus”
auspices. The “Star’s”
fizzling out found him
back in his old chair
at the “Herald,” which
thought him useful
enough to transfer to
the editorship of the
“News” in Adelaide.
He represented the
“Herald” at the Mon-
treal exhibition in
Canada, and there are
few newspaper jobs
with which he is un-
acquainted. He is a
graceful writer of
verse when he sets his
mind to it, and he
JIM FERRIER.
(Modelled by Frith.)
has no enemies. He was district presi-
dent of the A.J.A. in Victoria and
a member of the Air Force Reserve. A
comparatively young man, he has a single
lock of white hair which would betray
his identity anywhere.
Technical head of Amalgamated Wire-
less, Victorian-born Arthur Stephen Mc-
Donald, recently elected commodore of
the Royal Sydney Yacht Club, is a radio
engineer of the pioneer days, starting his
career with the radio branch of the
P.M.G. in 1911. He transferred to the
Naval Radio Service in 1915, and in 1922
A. S. McDONALD.
assumed the position he holds to-day.
With the speedy post-war development
of short-wave technique McDonald laid
the groundwork for the Beam telegraphy
and telephony systems in which A.W.A.
has always been leader. In the early
days of facsimile tests between Australia
and England the picture transmitter at
Rugby had completed a drum, received
evidently at the Australian end under
severe static conditions. After a request
for information from this end as to just
who was the subject of the picture, the
operator at the English end said “That
is his Majesty the King.” Mac’s reply
that it “looked more Ike the Rajah of
Bong” plunged Rugby into a hurt
siience.
The silverware collected by Jim Ferrier
(modelled here by Frith) over the last eight
years would be sufficient, if melted down,
for a life-size statue of this Australian golf
champion, who measures 6ft. 3|in. and
weighs 14 stone in his birthday suit.
Ferrier at 24 has cleaned up 31 Aus-
tralian and State titles, including two
opens and four amateurs. Just pipped
on the post in the British amateur cham-
pionship in 1936, at his first attempt, he
made up the leeway by winning two lead-
ing amateur events, the Gold Vase and
Silver Tassie. The latter was acquired
at Carnoustie, Scotland, where his
grandad played from scratch. His dad,
J. 8., present secretary of Manly Golf
Club, in his day a plus- two piayer, is
said to have fed his infant son on golf
balls and tees.
“Sic Transit”: There was something
of a scene in Perth when Jawn Forrest’s
library came up for sale a week or two
ago. “Refuse to bid!” shouted indignant
buyers when the old man’s bust by
Porcelli was put up. “It’s sacrilege.”
And so it was. Neither the library nor
the bust should have been allowed to
come under the hammer, any more than
those books of John Dunmore Lang’s
which were sold piecemeal in Sydney a
few years ago. Such collections, per-
sonal to great Australians, should be
national possessions. Australia could do
with more men like Forrest. One of my
last memories of him was in the darkest
hour of the last war. I had come several
thousand miles to Melbourne by darkened
ship, finishing with a 1500-mile train
journey. I landed at the Windsor Hotel
with a Distinguished Statesman whose
tail was so far between his legs that he
could have tied it round his bottom
waistcoat button. And there, alone in
the big dining-room at a table much
too small for him and on an anxious
chair, sat old Jawn eating sausages and
bacon. “Everything’s all right,” he
boomed; “give me another sausage.”
He methodically cleaned his plate and
took his deerstalker off the window sill,
put it squarely on his head, and when he
walked out like a moving mountain you
could almost feel Little Willie tremble
over in Berlin. The Distinguished States-
man uncurled his tail and spoke of
victory.


I
“SHEAF”!
j IJ
LIKE
IS p
ms
SHEA
STOUi
%
i
UA "ty,
So.
i
>
!///i/*'»// //////Vf/y/t-
SH
m
£
#iy MALT
//C & -a
hops m
o
i
o
A
#
o*2
LNsss> AllSi
i
I
afti
m
HI
In every walk of life men and women say "I like 'Sheaf!”
Wherever their lives are centred —around home, office,
factory or field—these people enjoy appreciable health
benefits from their regular glass of "Sheaf” Stout. Its
nourishing and energy-giving properties are especially
good this changeable Spring weather.
TOOTHS
SHEAF STOUT
IN BOTTLES —HALF BOTTLES BABY BOTTLES
SS. 110. FP


ABORIGINALITIES
“Arev”: “Yair,” said Bill Jupp, “the
land was all right, but, five mile from
a railway, an’ with a road as was a quag-
mire in winter an’ a lot o’ rocky ridges
in summer, it was ’eartbreakin’ ter take
a load ter market. I begged, the Shire
Council ter give me a decent road, but
all I got was knockbacks. Then Joe
’Arris suggested fer us to swap proper-
ties. ’ls land was much the same as
“Cant you read? Don't you know you're breakin' the law?"
mine, ’ouses, too ; an’ though ’e was ten
mile from the railway ’e ’ad a good road.
Well, we got it fixed up. Then the coun-
cil started to make a snifter road to me
old farm. Joe ’ad a friend in the council
and got wind o’ it. Then the Gover’ment
passes a bill, an’ you see the station
there —almost at me front gate. Yair, I
’ad a cobber in Parliament.”
* * * *
“Straddler”: Bards and others not so
licensed are fond of singing of the joys
of sleeping ’neath the twinkling stars
“with my saddle for my pillow.” They
obviously haven’t tried it or their
effusions would run to an ode on a stiff
neck instead, for of all head-rests that
curving monstrosity is the worst. The
bushman usually carries a pad, or minia-
ture cushion, which he puts on top of
anything from folded clothes or boots
to a baking-dish or some stones.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: The mobilising of the coun-
try’s gold resources brings to mind the
plenteous times when many people
hoarded sovereigns. Mine host Mugpot
of a wayback hotel was careless in regard
to that coin, but not so his wife. They
had a disagreement one day, and the
lady in a huff hopped on to the coach
for Broken Hill. Not long afterwards
the pub was seized for debt, and Mugpot
had to pack up and follow. When Mrs.
M. learned what had happened, she
nearly threw a doubler. Her spouse
expressed regrets for his harshness, but
recanted, and called her names she had
never heard before when she confessed
that whenever a sovereign was passed
over the bar counter she kept it, and
there was a hoard of them under the
floor of the room they had occupied.
Mugpot tore back to the pub and asked
to be given the treasure room while he
was there. In the night he took up a
flooring-board and got over 600 sove-
reigns. He resumed business not long
afterwards at the old address.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: “G. Point’s” theory
of gold salts building up nuggets (B.
16/8/’39) leads me to think that the
future will see quite a few built up from
the past leakages of some of the big
Boulder mines. Camped once on the
lease of a 20,0000 z.-per-month producer,
and every day at a certain hour a strong
stream of crystal-clear water used to run
past my door. Went on for years—
until the mine got a new metallurgist.
He stopped that stream —reckoned thou-
sands of ounces must have been lost
down the No-man’s Flat. That water
had been the waste from the precipita-
tion boxes, where zinc shavings induced
the cyanide solution to give up its gold.
Another one. Pinched for dumping
space, a big producer took to pulping
its filter slimes with fresh water and
pumping the “soup” miles away to a salt
lake. No one suspected that the over-
flow there was worth anything, and as
a sort of charity an old-timer was given
permission to put in a zinc box. It was
only when the C. 1.8. called to inquire
how the 0.-t. came to be selling so much
gold that the co. realised that it had been
losing, at least, hundreds of ounces. In
these cases the salts of gold would be
cyanides; anywhere they encountered
charcoal even they would surrender their
gold.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Amongst the more
euphonic flights of aldermanic oratory in
Brisbane’s City Council has been a de-
scription of an opponent as being “as
dumb as a prawn.” It wouldn’t pass in
municipal arguments in northern coastal
towns, for a small species of Barrier Reef
prawn is capable of quite a sizable noise.
One of its nippers is several times the
size of the other, and when snapped
together makes a sharp crack that can be
heard many yards away. A chorus of
them in full swing round a shallow reef
pool gives an excellent imitation of dis-
tant machine-gun fire. Their chief enemy
is another queer prawn which grows to
eight inches or more, and has long fore
limbs like those of a mantis in which it
holds its prey whilst feeding. If you
contrive to catch the agile beast in a
landing net —it makes a lovely curry—
don’t handle it or you will get a nasty
surprise from their razor-sharp points,
swiftly and deeply dug into hand or
finger.
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: Those rattler-jumpers
of “Langdon’s” who were caught riding
on the undercarriages (B. 23/8/’39) must
have been reading U.S.A. pulp mags. Most
of our bagmen shy off passenger trains
and look for a goods with tarp.-covered
trucks which are more or less comfort-
able and easy to get out of when the need
arises. “Jockey” Joe, well known on N.Q.
tracks, was the most successful rattler-
jumper I ever struck. Joe always carried
a clean chaffbag with a complicated string
arrangement on the open end which he
could draw tight after he stepped into the
bag. When Joe bagged himself and lay
down in a truck of miscellaneous goods
the most wideawake cop or porter would
mistake him for a side of bacon. Once
when he wanted to alight at a wayside
station and his untying mechanism
refused to function, the sight of an ani-
mated bag of groceries heaving itself over
the side of a truck was too much for the
alcoholically-inclined S.M.—he broke all
records to the township and signed the
pledge six times before he recovered.
* * * *
“C.C.8.”: Ever heard of climbing
boats? Two 60ft. double-deckers ferret
out cans of cream on the Richmond
(N.S.W.) and do stunts that would make
the neck-fringe of a bald-headed man
stand up with fright. In their search
they tear into dense clumps of willow-
tiees, sit up sedately on partly submerged
trunks, run slap-bang into mud channels,
crisscross from side to side, circle as
gracefully as an old-time dancer, back-
pedal with the ease of a locomotive and
take the river banks like a steeplechaser.
They never get their chests hurt either,
for their shallow bows are built like a
shovel to allow them to carry on without
loss of time.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: With the first warm South
Queensland days the swifts are showing
up after their five-month breeding season
in Japan and Siberia. Built for tireless
speed and endurance, they were credited
by Gould with being able to hawk insects
ever Tasmania in one hour and over
Victoria the next. Up to quite recently
they had never been recorded as having
been seen to alight in Australia by day
or night. Their tiny feet prevent them
from perching in ordinary bird fashion,
but recent observations indicate that they
sleep either clinging upright to trees or
cliff faces or upside down like bats. The
stiff tail of the spine-tailed species sug-
gests its use as a prop, and the forward-
pointing claws support the idea. The
bones of most birds are pneumatic —
hollowed out by air spaces to give light-
ness, but those of swifts are solid. They
are quite unrelated to swallows, but
closely akin to humming-birds.
He H= *
“Billy See”: Great was the faith of
the pioneer woman in boiling water as
a weapon of defence and offence. Always
simmering on the hob was the kettle,
ready for the snake seen through the
wide cracks in the hardwood floor, or
the big centipede just disappeared behind
the skirting-board. Also for the ants
in the nest outside by the chimney, when
the pests began too frequently to appear
in the sugar-basin or the jampot. Bugs,
too, were routed with the same weapon.
Biit where the kettle really rose to tops
was with the too-persistent Hindoo
hawker or the impudent swaggie. “Clear
out or I’ll take some boiling water to
you!” seldom failed to shift the unwel-
come caller off the doorstep. One can
imagine the housewives of ancient be-
leaguered cities hurrying with the steam-
ing kettle to the defence of the walls
when the enemy pressed too hard. I
wonder if the modern female, with her
sophisticated poise, her lipstick, tennis
racquet and shorts, has really sloughed
off such primitive instincts, or whether
alone, miles from a neighbor, and with
an unsavory intrusive male on the door-
step, she likewise would reach for the
hot kettle.
* * * *
“Sa Tiko”: The crabs on Rigby Island,
Lakes Entrance (Vic.), have developed
a bovine instinct and feed on grass. The
island is rich fodder country, and used
to carry more than the average number
of cattle per acre. Now the stock doesn’t
get a look in because ravenous swarms
of crabs overrun the island and eat the
grass down to the roots. Don’t know if
they chew the cud or suckle their young,
but even that revelation wouldn’t sur-
prise me, since there is less known about
crabs than about any other fish, beast or
bird.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: We have lost almost en-
tirely a fine old character from the Aus-
tralian bush. He was a universal per-
sonality, and regularly, according to
schedule, we’d see him driving or riding
the skyline with the royal mail. It was
a hard existence. First coaches, then
trains, cut into his profession, but he sur-
vived all opposition until motor-cars in-
vaded his tracks. With him went the
bushman’s crony, the purveyor of verbal
news and greetings from distant friends,
for H.M. mailman was much more than
a travelling postal service. He was Tom,
Dick or Harry to all men. He knew
where a good horse was for sale, how to
treat a sick child, where missing stock
might be found, and many useful items
of information which never got into
newspapers or letters. At the homestead
gate he could always spare five minutes
for consultation on great problems, and
he never forgot a promise or neglected a
friendly obligation. He ranged in every
shape, size and condition, but he was the
one entity all over Australia esteemed
as a benefactor to the man on the land.
* * * *
“De Facto”: Dr. Goddard’s dis-
coveries about the Chinese sailing round
Australia and presenting a map of it to
the Emperor Ying Sung in 1431 (B.
16/8/’39) recall the hint that visitors
from Cathay gave to William of Rubru-
quis in 1253. When he met them at the
Court of Mangu Khan, the Mongol ruler
at Karakorum, they told him of a coun-
try far beyond China where the inhabi-
tants never walked but went by leaps
and bounds. Kangaroos, of course. The
Chinese called them Chin-chin.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: Passed on to celestial
hunting grounds, Wilkie, of Bowie sta-
tion in the Pentland (n.-w. Q.) district,
said to be the oldest abo. in all Queens-
land. He was a wild myall when the first
white settlers came, and even after more
than 70 known years of white association
he still enjoyed a spell of walkabout and
a change to native food. The late Mrs.
Herrod, mother of the present occupier
of Bowie—she would be over 80 were
she alive to-day—remembered him from
her girlhood as “Old Wilkie.” Until a
few years ago he was an expert horseman
and cattle hand, and to the last he would
ride in the milkers and give a hand at
mustering and branding. For more than
30 years he had remained unchanged in
outward appearance, and he never com-
plained of any weakness of the flesh.
The tough old heart gave up duty in
Wilkie’s sleep, and he rests for ever in
the land over which his tribe once hunted.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Young Peter and I
were flicking bread to some yellowbobs
when Bluey, the satin-bird, arrived. He
was bouncing towards the bread when he
was joined by a pied currawong. Each
bird had one eye on the other and one
on a crust when from across the creek
Bluey’s missus, a flashing streak of green
and bronze, swooped on the tucker and
was gone, the old man hot on her tail.
The currawong squawked but had to hold
on tight as a couple of cobbers lobbed
with a thump beside him ; then came a
cat-bird. Then Bluey, still hungry, landed
back in the midst of the poultry now
assembled where the bread fell. A maggie
snapped at him ; he feinted, ducked and
darted in to grab at a piece which an-
other maggie had left to chase the cat-
bird. There was plenty for everybody,
but not one of them would let the other
go his way in peace ; all birds of sup-
posed superior race, yet they couldn’t
even take a meal together—just like
Europe. Then out from the scrub there
walked a common, plebeian, bone-headed
Wonga pigeon. Ignoring every feathered
wrangler he strolled unconcernedly along
cleaning up every crumb ; then he walked
off as quietly as he had come, bobbing
his silly undersized head and not even
knowing why he did it. The intelligentsia
thereupon resumed their interrupted bick-
ering. “Take a look at that, Peter, my
boy,” I said. “What’s the good of hav-
ing the best brains if you don’t know
how to use them?” And what is?
SHEPHERDS’ FIRES.
Wherever grass is growing
The shepherds tend their sheep,
And through the changing seasons
Their lonely vigil keep.
And through long nights of silence
Their fires like beacons glow,
As did the shepherds’ fires
Of Judah long ago.
Where forests fling their shadows
Or rolling downs are green
And plains are reaching boundless
The white flocks will be seen.
While in far future twilights
Wherever men may go,
The campfires of the shepherds
Will shed their friendly glow.
From the far desert’s fringes,
With sunset close behind,
Down to the southern grasslands
The narrow sheep-paths wind.
Where mountains skirt the seaboard
The shepherd lights his fire,
Almost within the shadow
Of turret, dome and spire.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


“Since I got one of these Chamberlain gadgets MY Joey hasn't even had the sniffles."
“Timmy Willie”: Choom said he could
ride, and we knew he’d be safe as houses
on old Dandy, the roan gelding, so that
when he returned four hours later
covered in dust and leading the roan we
couldn’t make out what had gone wrong.
Obviously at his last gasp, he explained
that he’d walked 14 miles home because,
as he said, “the horse had had a shivering
fit and fainted.” On inquiry it transpired
that after having a drink at the river
Dandy, just to make himself thoroughly
comfortable, had decided on a roll, and
shaken himself vigorously afterwards!
Choom had walked home to spare his
horse.
* * * *
“Pozzy”: Anchored off Stansbury
(S.A.) we thought we’d move up the
Gulf a bit, so picked up the hook and
bowled along before a fresh sou -wester
towards Vincent. The skipper, taking a
look over the stern, announced that a
large fish was keeping pace with the
cutter. A beautiful submarine wake of
bubbles was streaming off astern. “It’s
a tunny,” said the boss, and lines were
got and tempting baits of red flannel
dangled before the beauty—but nothing
doing. He still maintained exact station,
however, so the skipper called for the
boathook and a file. After putting a good
point on it and tying a length of light
line to the other end, he hurled the im-
provised harpoon at the supposed tunny.
Result: a badly wrecked anchor-buoy
which had not been brought aboard
when we started, and had streamed down
under the ship and taken station astern.
* * * *
“Kellick”: Those people who contend
that coons don’t fear sharks generally
advance the argument that black brother
will always dive in shark-infested waters
for tourist-ship coppers. On these
occasions competition is keen, and there
may be anything up to a hundred swim-
ming and diving in a very small area —
sufficient to frighten even more dangerous
things than sharks. Not often will you
see a lone nigger enjoying a swim. Re-
member one such occasion at Port
Moresby. Blown from a crowded
catamaran in a gale, the poor chap was
well astern when he broke surface, and
his face showed abject terror. Judging
by his record dash for safety it wasn't
his swimming ability that worried him.
* * * *
“Cooee”: I had a horse once that
never failed to “get” the man or dog
that came within kicking distance. Left
him tied up in front of the house one
day while I went inside for a few
moments. When I came out again I
saw my three-year-old boy gravely tap-
ping him on the hind fetlock with an
old shoeing rasp, just as he had many
times seen me do to an old horse to
make him lift his feet to be cleaned. I
quietly called the boy to me and he
walked behind the horse as he came ;
though the horse watched him it didn’t
attempt to kick. A few days later a
mate of mine carelessly walked too close
to the same horse’s heels and went to
hospital with a broken arm. It’s not the
first time I have known a “bad” horse
trust a child.
* * * *
“Sartor”: I’ve met either the goanna
or his first cousin mentioned by “Kool-
pinyah” (B. 16/8/’39) in the Torres
Strait islands. There a species of go.
which is actually amphibian derives its
carrion tucker from the marine debris in
shallow reef pools, but when high tides
immerse these easily-accessible provender
sources it dives down into submerged
coral caverns in search of live quarry-
crabs, small fish and prawns. This
saurian is primarily a terrestrial denizen,
but also there is a marine species which
closely resembles its land brother in
bodily contour, even as to legs. But this
beastie never leaves the water’s edge,
although he can sometimes be seen sun-
basking on top of exposed niggerhead
coral outcrops at low tides.
* * * *
“Nulla”: During a race meeting at
Dalby (Q.) I saw Tarpot wearing his
strides back to front. I chatted him as to
the big idea. “Too many pickpockets
longa town,” he replied.
■ * * * *
“Marsh”: Despite previous fatalities,
and because of slack legislation, shotgun
contrivances are still u?ed for the destruc-
tion of dingoes. Recently a grazier in
the Emerald district (C.Q.) met his death
through coming in contact with the wire
attached to the trigger of the set and
loaded gun, and writer knows of several
who have either met their deaths or have
been badly injured from a similar cause.
A big toll of sheep has also been taken
thereby. Placed in position close to
where dingoes are likely to pass, the
gun is left cocked with a wire attached
to the trigger, so that when the presumed
dingo comes abreast and touches the wire
it receives the charge.
* * * *
“Hamer”: In the English Whipsnade
Zoo black swans, emus and brush turkeys
are producing their kind with some aid
from the keepers in the way of warm
quarters. The breeding is regarded as a
triumph by the zoo people; what is
really curious about it is that the birds,
good Australians, are defying the climate
and keeping to the down-south schedule
in their mating and chick-producing. It
is in November and December that they
set about their home-building, and about
the beginning of January, when snow is
on the ground, the chicks appear. It
looks as though Australia puts its stamp
on its own more decisively than other
countries, for even imported animals and
birds stick to the Australian spring when
mating.
* * * *
“Murlonga”: If the Chinese and
Dutch gave words to our abos., what
about the early Romans? A tribe on
the Cooper used the term “kapoota”
when referring to the head ; in addition,
“youreena” meant just the same as the
early Romans attributed to it.
* * * *
“Max”: If “Copley” (B. 30/8/’39)
examines the old neglected roses which
appear to have run wild and degenerated
he will find that it is the hardy briar
stocks on which choice roses are worked
which have survived. Even in well-kept
gardens these briars are a constant
menace, persistently springing up from
slightly below ground-level and quickly
becoming tall, strong canes. When not
checked they soon take possession of
their site, and when the struggle for life
takes place in the first great drought the
briars win every time. Even when there
are food and water for both the rose is
soon smothered, leaving the usurper to
increase in blackberry style. The briar
shoots are easily recognised by their seven
narrow leaflets: the rose itself bears five
broader ones. I have about a hundred
named roses, some so menaced by their
briar foundations that only regular
removal of these robbers as soon as they
appear saves my beauties from annihila-
tion in a hot, dry spot. Good roses
always come true, though in great heat
and drought or in lean soil they may be
poor shadows of their loveliness.
* * * *
“Vulcan”: Black lambs from black
ewes (B. 16/8/’39)? While this is rare
under ordinary conditions, I once saw a
flock of a thousand black sheep, bred
on a N.S.W. station by mating black
ewes and rams. The resulting progeny
were 80 p.c. all-black, the rest varying
from black with white faces to white with
black spots, including mottled ones
known to shearers as “native cats.” My
first job as a picker-up was in a shed
where 200 of these piebalds, culled from
the station flock of black sheep, went
over the board.
* * * *
“Flight”: The dabchick, alias little
diver, alias grebe, puts up a mystifying
performance I’d like explained. That
bird, heavy on the wing, prefers to seek
safety in diving when danger threatens.
I don’t ever remember seeing one take
the air of its own accord. Yet in moun-
tain country, after an overnight storm
that has filled a previously dry waterhole,
I have seen dabchicks floating on its sur-
face. How did they get there, perhaps
up to seven miles from the nearest per-
manent water, when the air is full of the
smell of water?
“Jist loosenin' up , Joe!”
A PROPER CRANK.
He stood, long, sinewy and lean,
Some beer-froth on his walrus mo.,
A drooping cigarette between
His lips; his words were few and slow.
From battered tile to hobnail boot
He seemed an ordinary coot.
’Twas Milparinka Joe who spoke.
“Y’ know,” he said —and jerked his thumb
Towards the long Tin — “there’s a bloke
That’s queer, though not ezactly dumb:
Eccentric—that's the flamin’ word—
Yair, ’e’s a most peculiar bird.”
“A hatter, eh?” I said. “Ah, well,
They’re not so rare about the bush.
For some fan dame perhaps he fell,
And heartlessly received the push;
The gnawing thought of some disgrace,
In spite of beer, he can’t efface.”
“Come off it, Dig!” said Joe. “See ’ere,
Wot youse is maggin’s all me eye;
I on’y meant Long Jim was queer
In one respeck, an’ this is w’y:
W’en strangers want directions quick,
’E never draws ’em with a stick.”
N.S.W.
BO.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, G/- anti 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table il’llote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M4GOI.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
1 8 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
FIAT
■a
: : ;:
“Acme” Spring- Sash Balances
replace the old box frame,
cords and weights.
ĵ
Mr. C. A. Baker,
and Owner.
Builder
Ware
Princeton
Flats (27), —.
Double Bay, Sydney.
j
Bakelite Door
Seth throughout
m a
A.
m
Cnrome-plated Orna-
mental Crash Bars and
Kick Plates to entrance
doors.
CONTINUOUS HOT WATER uAY OR
NIGHT FROM THE “WHITE ROSE”
C.I. (English) BOILER.
This boiler burns coke on the slow-combustion
principle, and maintains a slow-burning cone-
shaped fire. The fire is surrounded by waterways,
producing the cheapest method of flat heating
extant. The boiler maintains a storage of 700
gallons of hot water, and gives approximately
two hot baths for one penny.
SPECIALISTS IN BOILER AND RADIATOR
SUPPLIES.
Futuristic
C.P. Door
Knockers
with
number of
flat shown.
Call and inspect or write for catalogue of “Modern Home Fittings.”
PHONE- M 6505 (16 LINES). LATE SHOPPING. FRIDAY. 6)0 PM.
JOHN DANKS »«» SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED i incoaroratsdmvictoruO
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 6505.
301-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE. ’PHONE: M 2381.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 20,985 Bip.c. = 15,216 5,769 25,765
1930.. 17,889 8 „ „ 16,496 1.393 27,158
1931.. 18,577 8 „ „ 16,998 1,579 28,737
1932.. 19,649 8 „ ~ 15,603 4,046 32,783
1933.. 16,898 6 „ „ 13,864 3,034 35,817
1934.. 21,598 6 „ „ 14,381 7,217 43,034
Staff fund, £l5OO 41,534
1935.. 23,314 51 p.c. = 14,766 8,548 50,082
Staff fund, £lOOO 49,082
1936.. 17,819 54 p.c. = 15,300 2,519 51,001
i Staff fund, £5OO 51,101
1937.. 30,106 6J p.c. = 18,170 11,936 63,037
j Staff fund, £lOOO 62.037
:i938.. 21,320 6 p.c. = 17,587 3,733 65,770
j 1939'.. 24,859 0 „ 19,360 1 4 499 70 9G9
j Staff fund, £lOOO .. ~ J 4,49 J ‘ o, ‘ J ° 9
i The worst fears of Australian woolgrowers
1 have been set at rest by the British Gov-
. ernment’s decision to buy the Common-
wealth’s entire clip for the duration of
the war. The average price to be paid
has not yet been decided upon. The
scheme will probably follow the lines
adopted when the British Government
purchased the Australian clip during the
Great War of 1914-18. Growers were
then paid a flat rate of per pound
on a greasy basis. It was a generous
price, being 55 p.c. above the average real-
ised for the year immediately preceding
the war. Four clips were thus bought
and sold, total payments amounting to
approximately £160,000,000. And then
about £30,000,000, being half the profits
on realisation, was handed back to Aus-
tralian growers. They thus got an aston-
ishingly high flat rate and half the profits
on realisation without carrying a farthing
of the risks. The scheme about to be
put into operation will most likely be
moulded on lines similar to the one of
1916-20. Control was then placed in the
bands of a central wool committee, with
a chairman nominated by the Federal
Government, and all sections of the trade
represented. There were sub-committees
in each State. The wool, which was
divided into 848 distinct types, instead of
being sold by auction, was valued by
Government-appointed appraisers. Pay-
ment at the appraised price less 10 p.c.
for contingencies was made to growers
shortly after each yearly valuation.
The earnings of woolselling brokers
benefited as a result of the scheme. This
co., which took over John Bridge’s north-
ern business in 1920, now puts more of
Queensland’s clip under the hammer than
any other broker in the State. The
articles limit divs. to 7 p.c. till at least
20 p.c. of commission charges is rebated
to consignors. For the last half-dozen
years rebates have been at the rate of
25 p.c. for wool and fat stock and 20 p.c.
for store stock. The amounts involved
are not disclosed; but to most share-
holders, who are also clients, they make
divs. worth more than their declared rate.
Last term the co. put more wool and
cattle but fewer sheep under the hammer:
\ear \\ool Sold, Sheep and
June, Bales. Cattle. Lambs. Turnover.
1932.. 122,557 29,757 t 139.669 f £1,741.789
1933.. 118.084 36,081 t 121.559 f 1,801,726
1934.. 82,556 40,5677 91.1707 2,841,731
1935.. 136,249 34,6297 123.0957 2,757,074
1936.. 98,278 28,4797 82,8817 2,538.797
1937.. 118,355 35.1557 73,7467 3.775.628
1938.. 109,626 34,3447 109,4927 3,170,570
1939.. 122,709 37,361 83,309 2,865,275
t Brisbane and Rockhampton yards. 7 Brisbane yard.
The contraction of £305,295 in turnover
was due mainly to the fall in wool prices,
the average per bale for Queensland
being £l4 Is. 7d., as against £l5 15s. 6d.
and £2l 14s. 6d. for the two preceding
terms. A heartening feature is the growth
of £3539 in net earnings, which suggests
that the management kept a tight hold
upon outgoings. The £24,859 of profit
claimed was 7.7 p.c. on capital, compared
with 7.2, 10.7, 6.7, 8.7, 9 and 7.3 p.c.
back to 1913. The div. was kept at 6 p.c.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows: —•
1930. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £211.147 £272,407 £324,569 £324,204
Liabilities* . . 222,593 522,402" 517,298 501,390
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 111,937 199,721 202,561 201,450
Plant, etc. .. 11.281 31,328 35,297 34,400
Advances . . 353,389 528,906 527,615 644,726
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 787 101,579 166,529 43,365
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
The amount coming to outsiders, which
includes advance payments by wool-
buyers, was £15,908 less than at the pre-
vious balance, and an extra £117,111 was
put out on advance. Cash, etc., was
drawn upon for £123,164. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£186,701) was £9855.
The pound shares, covered by 245. 4d.
in net tangibles, are not listed on ’Change.
Cascade Brewery Co., Ltd. (Hobart)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 12,382 Nil )
Written off, £2BOO .. J 9 >° B2 U9 ' 072
Written off shares in other cos.,
£16,700 .. • 102,372
1930.. 7,908 2* p.c. = 5,000 2,908 105,280
Written off shares in other cos.,
£lO,OOO 95,280
1931.. 13,016 3} p.c. = 7,500 5,516 100,796
Written off shares in other cos.,
£7162; reduction in general
reserve, £4603 .. .. .. 96,193
1932.. 12,797 5 p.c. = 10,000 2,797 98,990
Unexplained reductions. £2OOO . . 96,990
1933.. 14,655 5} p.c. = 11,000 3,655 100,645
Written off shares in other cos.,
£5OOO 95,645
1934.. 17,607 7 p.c. = 14,000 3,607 99,252
Bonus equalisation reserve, £4020.. 103,272
1935.. 18,849 8 p.c. = 16,000 2,849 106,121
1936.. 25,788 10 „ „ 20,000 5,788 111,909
1937.. 29,297 11J ~ „ 22,500 1 r IQ , 117infi
Written off, £lOOO. j 5 ’ 197 n7 ’ lOC
1938.. 31,468 12 p.c. = 25,750 [ 01 „ 11pnls
Written off, £3BOO. $ 119,018
1939.. 31,283 12 p.c. = 27,000 ) , qoo 120 918
Written off, £2383 J 1,900 120,918
The war with Germany might not do
Australian brewing cos. much harm.
During the Great War of 1914-18 there
was a drop in the average consumption
of beer per head of population, but not
sufficient to interfere with dividends from
well-run breweries. This co. went on
paying a steady 6 p.c., followed by an
average of 10.8 p.c. p.a. for the half-
dozen years to the close of accounts in
1927. Shareholders went hungry for the
next couple of years, and got only
moderate returns for the four years after
that. Then the beer-making subsidiary,
Tasmanian Breweries Pty., formed by
Cascade and J. Boag and Son on a 50-50
basis in 1922, began to contribute to the
pool again, and divs. advanced by annual
steps from 7 p.c. in 1934 to 12 p.c. in
1938, and remained steady last term.
Beer consumption per head of popu-
lation in Tas. has advanced steadily since
1932-33 —the trough of the depression
for the trade there—and is now in ad-
vance of the pre-slump peak figure. Also,
of recent years Cascade has substantially
increased its trade in bottled ale with
the mainland, where its brew is well-
known. During the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts a larger and more
efficient cordial plant was installed, and
remodelling of some of the co.’s hotels
continued —the work is expected to be
completed by the end of 1939. Gross
earnings (£63,159) were up £2943. Exes.
(£33,382) took all but £Bl of the increase.
Allowing for an unexplained reduction
of £877 net in reserves, the profit was
£lB5 lighter at 13.9 p.c. on capital as
against 14.6, 14.6, 12.8, 9.4, 8.8, 7.3 and
6.3 p.c. back to 1932. That leaves out
of the reckoning £2383 written off hotel
properties in addition to the ordinary
allowance for depreciation.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
‘1931. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £200,000 £200,000 £225,000 £225,000
Mortgages and
deposits .. 129,124 121.129 108.348 107,267
Other liabilities 10,976 2,433 4,444 4,819
Hotels, etc... 253,847 254,246 261,914 281,121
Plant, etc. .. 103,572 88,228 90,607 91,391
Stook.. .. 7,709 7,339 10,395 12,913
Book debts, etc. 24,801 18,296 33,740 12,516
Cash, etc, . . 312 10,340 16,907 14,850
Shares other cos. 70,809 65,196 64,646 64,646
During the year debtors’ balances, etc.,
were reduced by £21,224 and £19,207
more was spent on hotel properties than
was written off. Excluding shareholdings,
which are mainly scrip in the brewing co.,
outside liabilities exceeded more or less
liquids by £71,807 when the books closed.
The floating debt (£15,525) was well
covered.
In an atmosphere such as exists at the
moment, the urge to buy one’s neighbor
a drink is stronger than usual. But costs
threaten to be difficult to restrain, and
excise and other taxes are to be bumped
up. Part or all of the increase in excise,
however, might be passed on.
At 425. the 21s. shares paid to 20s.
return 5.7 p.c. on a 12 p.c. div. basis, a
very satisfactory return, all things con-
sidered. The net tangible cover is 30s. 9d.
per pound of paid capital.
Buckley and Nunn, Ltd. (Melb.)
f Dividends
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1929.. 65,213 10,500 13f p.c.=44,555 10,158 101,379
1930.. 46,400 10,500 10 „ „ 32,404 3,496 104,875
Loss.
1931.. 24,622 7,471 2J „ „ 8,101 64,681
Profit.
1932.. 18,505 10,500 Nil 8,005 72,686
1933.. 30,532 10,500 6 p.c. =19,442 590 73,276
Loss.
1934.. 17,894 10,500 2J „ „ 8,101 36,781
Unexplained reductions, £lO,OOO .. 26,781
Deficit.
1935.. 19,909 10,500 Nil 3,628
Unexplained additions, £2225 .. .. 1,403
Profit. Reserves.
1936.. 17,013 10,500 Nil 6,513 5,110
1937.. 34,825 10,500 21 p.c.= 8,101 16,224 21,334
1938.. 31,668 10,500 4 ~ ~12,962 8,206 29,540
Reserves disappear, £7498 .. •• 22,042
1939'. . 27,421 10,500 4 p.c.=12,062 3,959 26,001
For the decade to the close of accounts
in 1930, the ords. averaged a shade over
13 p.c., sweetened with £133,221 of bonus
scrip. Over the next eight years declared
trading profits exceeded declared trading
losses by £70,118, or £13,882 less than
2 p.c.
The mischief occurred mainly in
connection with stocks. Before the
slump the co. had long enjoyed a
large and very profitable trade in im-
ported high-grade fashion goods, the most
difficult of all drapery lines. Slump and
competition forced the co. into medium-
priced competitive lines, and the manage-
ment gave more attention to local
manufacture, though imports continue
to figure fairly substantially in the inven-
tory. Also, a system of budgeting was
introduced which made for better buy-
ing and the stopping-up of many outlets.
Still, the co. has been unable to regain
its old earning power, despite the fact
that the store is in Bourke-street, along-
side Myer’s in the centre of Melbourne’s
shopping area.
During the last term a “substantial”
increase in sales was reported, but the
gain in this respect was more than offset
by the lift in exes., mainly on account of
wages, rent and depreciation allow-
ance. After making all provisions con-
sidered necessary for contingencies, the
net result was £4247 lighter than the
previous year’s at £27,421, or enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 5.2 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 6.5, 7.5 and 2 p.c.
for the two preceding terms. That leaves
out of the reckoning an unexplained


SECURITY MADE SECURE
THE
o
2
LOAN
OF THE
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
MATURING Ist SEPTEMBER. 1952
OFFERS THESE FACILITIES
p IT GIVES A SECURITY SECOND TO NONE.
• IT IS BACKED BY THE WHOLE RATING RESOURCES OF THE
BOARD.
• IT CARRIES THE UNCONDITIONAL GUARANTEE OF THE
GOVERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
• SUBSCRIPTIONS MAY BE MADE BY INSTALMENTS UP TO
DECEMBER, 1939.
• IT WILL PROVIDE ESSENTIAL SERVICES AS WELL AS EMPLOYMENT
FOR SEVERAL THOUSANDS OF MEN.
• Full particulars, Prospectuses and Application Forms obtainable from
any branch of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, Bank of New
South Wales, or the Board's Head Office. 45 Reservoir St., Sydney,
and branches, and Members of recognised Stock Exchanges.
9 The loan has been underwritten by J. B. Were & Son (Members of
the Stock Exchange of Melbourne), Melbourne, Sydney, London.
LOAN CLOSES
SATURDAY, 16th SEPT., 1939
APPLY AT ONCE
vi
1
■
■
HU
.. .'/ V V N N
81111
as ir
MPPtHS i
Political change—history itself is moving
to-day at express speed. Hear history in the
making—direct—as clearly as your own local
stations, with “Ultimate” Champion Radio.
For 12 years “Ultimate” overseas reception
has set an unapproachable standard. “Surge”
is entirely eliminated, giving crystal-clear,
uninterrupted reception. No complicated
tuning—a child can operate an “Ultimate.”
Post the coupon to-day for full particulars
and details of the unique “test” plan. This
enables you to operate an “Ultimate” in
your own home for seven days—without
risking one penny. Fill in your name and
address NOW!
DID YOU KNOW?
Did you know that Mr. L. J. Keast
used a standard Ultimate Radio
when compiling a log of over 400
short-wave stations?
.... That this short-wave log was
featured recently in “Wireless
Weekly”?
....That Ultimate Champion
Radio can enable you to listen to
short-wave stations you have never
heard before, can bring you news
of the moment easily, clearly,
from overseas?
EUROPEAN STATIONS.
. . . .That Germany, for instance,
broadcasts five news
sessions in English every
day?
.. . .That these sessions
can be heard on the
following stations?
DJD—25.49 metres —
5 a.m. and 7.10 a.m.
DJQ —19.63 metres —
5 p.m., 10 p.m., and 12
midnight.
DJ8—19.74 metres —
10 p.m. and 12 midnight.
EASTERN STATIONS.
. . . .That news sessions in
English are broadcast over the
following Eastern stations?
JVWS T0ki0—25.6 metres —
7.55 p.m.
Radio Saigon F.1.C.—49.05 metres
9 p.m.
XGOY Chungkim—2s.2 metres —
9.15 p.m.
ZHP Singapore—3o.96 metres —
10 p.m.
KZRM Manila—3l.3s metres—
-10.50 p.m.
U.S.A.
KGEI—3I.4B metres—
-10.30 p.m. (news session).
HEAR THESE
HEWS SESSIOHS
OH
ULTIMATE
Champion RADIO
CUP THIS
COUPON
TO-DAY!
iK
y na
Log Chart giving positive identification
of more than 400 overseas stations, and
details oi ‘'Ultimate" Champion Radio.
NAME
ADDRESS.
U 2.20
j
GEORGE DROWN & CO., LTD.. 267 Clarence St.. Sydney
reduction of £7498 in reserves, which ex-
ceeded goodwill (£60,741, not treated as
an asset herein) by £26,001 when the
books closed.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follows:
1930. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Ord. capital. . £324.041 £324,041 £324,041 £324,041
Pref. capital.. 150.000 150,000 150.000 150,000
Liabilities .. 268,673 376,820 329,902 400,471
Premises, eta 411.044 468.(89 468.469 504.4U0
Plant, etc. . . 83,465 96.320 94,944 116,576
Book debts .. 77,368 59,741 65,677 64,959
Stock.. .. 304,582 199.678 193,508 237,253
Cash, etc. .. 5,323 39,814 37,388 2,507
During the year the co. took over the
adjacent leasehold previously occupied
by G. J. Coles, which explains the
additions of £35,931 and £21,632 to the
premises and plant items respectively.
The jump of £43,745 in stock was on
account of early arrival of new season’s
goods. To meet the outlay, cash, etc.,
was drawn upon for £34,881, and £70,569
was added to the floating debt
(£175,471); mortgages remained un-
changed at £225,000. When the books
closed the total outside debt exceeded
more or less liquids by £95,752, or
£62,423 more than at the previous
balance. The floating debt was nearly
twice covered.
What effect the war will have upon the
business will partly depend upon the
extent to which the management is able
to replace imported lines with suitable
Australian manufactures. Costs, includ-
ing taxation, can be expected to rise.
After sales at 245. 1 Id. and 18s. 6d.
the prefs. and ords. are now offered at
245. 9d. and 18s. respectively without
attracting buyers. At the lower figures
the return is 5.6 p.c. and 4.4 p.c. respec-
tively on the basis of last term’s distri-
butions. The net tangible cover is
£3 6s. Bd. prefs. and 21s. 7d. ords.
Gold
The sharp rise in the London (sterling)
price of gold has been brought about by
a strong demand for the metal and a fall
in the sterling-dollar rate of exchange ;
products of a war-scare rush for shelter
by fugitive capital. The sterling price of
the metal is governed mainly by the price
of dollars in London. That is because
the U.S.A. is the only country in the
world where the price of gold is fixed by
statute, the figure being 35 dollars per
ounce. If, after allowing for transfer
charges, etc., the sterling price of gold in
London is lower than the corresponding
dollar price in New York, then it at once
becomes profitable to ship gold from
London to New York, and the London
price of the metal rises accordingly.
Before the outbreak of war with Ger-
many, the London price of dollars was
fairly steady around 4.68 dollars to the
pound.
For some time the British Treasury
supported sterling by selling gold and
dollar securities. But the pressure be-
came too great, and the support was
withdrawn on August 25. The Treasury
(it controls the Equalisation Fund) has
been criticised for not taking similar
action earlier, on the ground that its sup-
port chiefly advantaged owners of fugi-
tive capital —still, it is always easier to
play the game backwards than forwards.
In an unsupported market the price of
dollars rose promptly, and so did the
price of gold. The Australian price of
the yellow metal rose in direct ratio to
the sterling figure, because the Australian
pound is pegged to sterling at £AI2S =
£SIOO. The following table shows what
has happened:
Price Gold, per Fine Oz.
London , — K ; \
Exchange London, Australian,
Period. $ per £. £Mtg. £A.
1935- .. 4.957 7.035 8.683
1936- . . 4.939 7.041 8.691
1937- . . 4,980 7.001 8.642
Dec., 1938.. 4.671 7.444 9.188
June, 1939.. 4.683 7.423 9.162
21/8/’39' . . 4.682 7.429 9.252
31/8,’39 . . 4.322 7.950 9.894
8/9/’39' .. 4.060 8.400 10.579
During the 12 months of 1938 Australia
produced 1,590,000 fine ounces of gold.
On this basis (actually output has con-
tinued to increase) the present price of
the metal would add about £3,000,000 to
our national income from gold, making it
about £17,000,000. Also, many Australian
goldmines now struggling to get on tc
the dividend list would be able to make
satisfactory distributions, and other low
grade propositions would come into pro
duction. Further, provided there is nc
extraordinary demand for London funds,
such as would follow dispatch of a volun-
tary expeditionary force overseas, appear-
ances are that there should be no short-
age of London funds for imports of
necessary raw materials. In this connec-
tion, freight looks like being the biggest
difficulty. There is nothing in sight at the
moment that would suggest need for any
alteration of the Australian-sterling rate
of exchange. Obviously much depends
upon whether the price of gold remains
at or about the present level.
During the Great War, sterling was
pegged to the dollar, the demand rate,
dollars per pound, ranging from 4.876 to
4.572 for the six years to the end of 1918.
To-day, however, the U.S.A. Neutrality
Act stands in the way of direct business
between that country and the belligerents.
How long it will continue to do so re-
mains to be seen. With a strict eye being
kept on transfer of funds from London
to New York and elsewhere, the sterling-
dollar exchange rate could reasonably be
expected to strengthen a little as the extra-
ordinary demand spends its force. So,
although the sterling price of gold may
not remain at the present level, a sub-
stantial fall in the figure is not expected.
The Tin Buffer Pool has lifted the
permissible quota of production by
countries signatory to the restriction
agreement from 45 p.c. to 60 p.c., and
the revision will apply to the quarter
ending on the 30th of this month, thus
indicating that rapid absorption of exist-
ing stocks is anticipated. At the end of
August the world’s visible supply of tin


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
as
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Mining Notice.
THREE MINING LEASES at Bamford, North
Queensland, and 21 acres, including the famous
Haymaker. This mine is now producing
wolfram, bismuth and molybdenite. Fully
equipped, winder drills, blacksmith shop, ore-
dressing plant. Better than any gold proposi-
tion. Sacrifice £l5OO or offer. —FRED
WINTERS, Petford, North Queensland.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgah,” Melbourne.
" QUALCAST "
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
ĵ
MOTOR
MOWER
33
Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
Hundreds
have now
been sold
and are
giving: every
satisfaction.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qualcast" Lawnmowers
MODEL “H”: 10in.12in.14in.16in.
Bronze Bearing . . 33/- 41/- 44/-
Bail Bearing .... 44/- 47/- 50/- 53/-
Super “7” Ball B. 56/- 60/- 64/-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY
ALL LEADING HARDWARE STORES
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
METALS.—If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
You can save him
half his premiums
for the rest of his life
I F you assure your baby under the
1 A.M.P. Society’s ZN Policy, you can
cut the cost of his (or her) life assurance
by more than half. If you are 30 years
of age next birthday, you can give him a
£lOOO policy for a premium of £7/17/6 a
year instead of the £l9/4/2 he would
need to pay if he waited till he was 21 to
take it out. Premiums are only slightly
higher if you are over 30.
The ZN policy has two special features:
(a) Should the child die before the 21st
birthday, all premiums are returned with
interest at 4 per cent, per annum, (b)
Should the father die before the child is
21, the mother is not burdened, because
no further premiums are payable from
the date of his death until the child
is 21.
Ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send
a man to explain this ZN policy to you.
It is a boon in which thousands are
participating. If you prefer, ask that
booklets be sent to you by post. Do
that to-day and start building up your
boy’s financial welfare.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL
But even with approx. £2O you
can have a stake to-day in
Australian industry . . .
Custodian Trustees :: Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Booklet is yours on
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V.V, 0.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
was 20,335 tons, exclusive of 1677 tons
Straits Settlements carryover. Recent
production and consumption figures have
been as follows:
June, July, Aug.,
Tons. Tons. Tons.
World visible supply.. 22,774 22,654 20,335
Straits carryover .. 1,208 2,167 1,677
Supplies received .. 7,630 8,322' 7,970
Deliveries .. ~ 8,669 8,442 10,289
Those figures relate to tin produced by
signatory countries. During the first six
months of 1939 world production
amounted to 12,100 tons less than
apparent consumption. Production was
62,800 tons (down 19,700 tons compared
with the corresponding half of 1938,
when the quota in signatory countries
ranged from 70 p.c. down to 55 p.c.)
and consumption was 74,900 tons, 6000
tons below consumption in the first half
of 1938, but 4000 tons above that in the
second half. At Aug. 31, 1938, world
visible supplies aggregated 20,108 tons,
with the Straits carryover at 5616 tons.
* * * *
Broken Hill Prop., after finishing up
its extensive boring plan on Battle Creek,
Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), is now sampling
options held on Nettles Creek, near its
junction with the Upper Herbert.
* * * *
Low treatment charges at the Govern-
ment-run mill at Irvinebank (N.Q.) have
been largely responsible for the marked
revival at this old tin camp. Most of
the shows are exceedingly low-grade, the
Gordon excepted ; it put through a 10
p.C. lot recently. When the monthly re-
turns are averaged up the individual pro-
ducer is only showing about 1 p.c. tin
oxide. At the present steady price of
tin there is scope for renovation of many
old workings here. Irvinebank was
famous for John Moffatt and the Vulcan,
the deepest known tin pipe in Australia.
Old-timers will remember its main street,
packed in a narrow valley and jostling
with sweating humanity on Saturday
nights, as one of the most hilarious
mining camps north o’ Capricorn.
* * * *
At Kelsey Creek, Proserpine (N.Q.),
latest workings are in the vicinity of
170 ft. in the main shaft, and the mine has
already produced roughly 10,000 oz. gold.
The average per ton has dropped from
6oz. to around 4oz. this year, mainly be-
cause the oxidised ore, which was very
rich, has now cut out. A steady output
of sulphide is being treated at Chillagoe
Smelters.
* * * *
O.K. Copper Mine, on the Walsh
(N.Q.), was a £50,000 show last century.
It is being worked again as a copper flux
sulphide ore supply to Chillagoe Smelters,
and is proving something out of the box
as a flux, since 300 tons ore averaged
7t p.c. copper and a shade under 2dwt.
gold. A geological report by C. C.
Morton gives it a very good chance of
developing extensively below the 140 ft.
level, and W. H. Prior is following his
recommendations. Of course, all the
rich carbonates disappeared when it was
first worked.
* * * *
Black Jack is still the one bright spot
on the Charters Towers field (N.Q.). A
recent 300 tons produced 2280 z. bullion,
but total values depend on the recoveries
from concentrates forwarded to Chilla-
goe Smelters. Morgan Lewis has mined
this show from its ancient days. Even
if there is not a continuous reef section
in the stopes, there is probably some
years’ supply of pay ore throughout the
mine, and several of the end faces are
showing good stone.
* * * *
The Lady Griffith reef at Monal (C.Q.)
is being worked again, but is in difficul-
ties through continued faulting of the
reef. The reef is estimated to have pro-
duced some 4000 tons of loz. ore over
a length of 550 ft. and to a superficial
depth of 100 ft. A report by S. R. Shep-
herd sets out the position in regard to
faulting, which seems to be the chief
reason why they cannot get on with the
business below 100 ft. Obviously a pro-
ducer of this rank has possibilities below
100 ft., but it needs a reserve of capital
to cover the dead work of locating the
reef underground after each dislocation.
* * * *
Yankee-controlled and -managed Big
Bell (W.A.) has, without any fuss, recov-
ered a million pounds’ worth of gold
since production began two years ago.
This wealth has been extracted from
an auriferous deposit which everybody
else reckoned was too low-grade to tackle.
* 9 9 «
In its annual report the Westralian
Mines Department says that gold divi-
dends paid in that State to the end of
1938 aggregated £35,234,403. East Cool-
gardie (Kalgoorlie-Boulder) headed the
list of contributors with £26,541,354 ; then
followed Mt. Margaret, £2,305,326 ; Mur-
chison, £2,198,166; East Murchison,
£1,654,664; Yilgarn, £749,180; North
Coolgardie, £593,675 ; Dundas, £511,523 ;
Coolgardie, £339,495. Great Boulder’s
contribution (£6,550,547) was the biggest
individual one. The report praises the
service rendered to prospectors by the
State batteries. To the end of December
last the value of gold won from ore put
through these mills was worth over
£10,000,000.
* * * *
Realising that goldmines are not found
under many bushes in the West, and that
it has only a sweep-ticket chance of get-
ting one, North Kalgurli Central has de-
cided to wind up and distribute the cash
and shares received for sale of its Kal-
goorlie block to Paringa. About £2500
and 10,000 f.-p. Paringa Is. shares will be
divided among holders of North Kalgurli
Central issued scrip, which totals 92,500
shares, excluding 114,605 forfeited shares
in the co.’s hands.
* * * *
Ownership of Hannan’s Reward-Mt.
Charlotte, a Kalgoorlie goldmine of
promise and the scene of Paddy Hannan’s
find in 1893, is not yet settled. In a case
in which Hannan’s Hill Amalgamated,
N.L., a Perth co., claimed that Barbican
Corp. and Mt. Charlotte, Ltd., two Lon-
don concerns, were in wrongful posses-
sion, the warden decided against
Hannan’s Hill Amalgamated, and the
Westralian Supreme Court and the High
Court have since upheld his decision.
Hannan’s Hill Amalgamated now ia-
tends to appeal to the Privy Council.
* * * *
Chairman C. S. Beale, who is visiting
the Paringa at Kalgoprlie again, says that
the mine is in an advanced stage of de-
velopment, is fully equipped, is in regular
production and has started to pay divi-
dends. The mill (cost £90,000) has treated
70,000 tons to date, and approximately
250,000 tons of 6dwt. ore is in sight. De-
velopment of recently acquired proper-
ties adjoining Paringa, and the question
of doubling the treatment capacity of the
mill, are matters now under considera-
tion.
* * *
New Guinea Goldfields’ working sur-
plus for July leapt to £13,057, as against
an average £4570 for the preceding nine
months. Of the £13,057, £10,294 came
from Golden Ridges. Some extra-rich
stuff was put through the mill, which
was also having its first uninterrupted
run since remodelling last year to handle
sands and slimes separately.
* * * *
Returns from Barrytown Dredging
(M.L.), which has been a disappointment
to date, have been looking up. For the
year to March 31 a working surplus of
£24,750 was shown. For the five months
since the surplus has been £19,260. The
co. has 300,000 shares to spread profits
over ; at 10s. 6d. buyers, the f.-p. £1 ords.
are around their lowest ebb this year.
* * * *
Four producers of de Bernales West-
ralian group—Yellowdine, Comet, Emu
and Gladiator —yielded in the aggregate
£A37,303 worth of gold in July. Indi-
vidual contributions were Yellowdine
£1940, Comet £4284, Emu £9945, Gladia-
tor £3634. Expenditures were Yellow-
dine £8539, Comet £3740, Emu £8192,
Gladiator £5093. Yellowdine and Comet
are looking well, but Gladiator is having
difficulty keeping its head above water.
* * * *
Jo’burg mining cos. are fuming at the
S. African Government’s decision to re-
tain all gold profits above £7 10s. an
ounce. Aggregate working profits for
Rand cos. for 1938 were approximately
£32,000,000 sterling, of which the
Treasury took nearly half in taxes and
royalties. In the belief that any additional
Government grab was unlikely, millions
of pounds of new capital have been
guaranteed during the last year or two for
extension of workings on the old Rand
field and for development of producers
on the eastern and western extensions
of the belt.
* * * *
Life assurance offices in Australia are
considering what action it will be neces-
sary for them to take in regard to loading
premiums of new assurers enlisting for
war service. Since a person already
assured at a normal premium can’t have
his rate jumped up on him if he should
enlist for service abroad, life offices, now
that Australia is at war, are likely to
make some endorsement on new policies
taken out by males.


Three new floors of
bedrooms, all with
private bathrooms—24-
hour hot water service
and telephones.
Will
Enjoy
H
RTH
•• *
A Stay at the Wentworth
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with in
your own home. Although close to business and social
centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated position
away from trams, trains and other annoying influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms, all with private bathrooms
— 24-hour hot water service and telephones.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
SMOKE-OH!
“The planet Mars is surrounded by a belt
of hot air.” — Article.
So is Berchtesgaden.
4* 4* 4* 4
“Wielded Iron Bar in Home.”
— “D. Telegraph.”
Now his home is all bars.
4 4 4 4
“Films have not altogether killed the old-
time travelling theatrical shows.”
—Sydney weekly.
But some of the plays are murdered.
4 4 4 4
“Champagne is rarely given at a private
lunch; it belongs solely to the evening.”
—Etiquette column.
And if you can get enough it’s good
night!
4 4 4 4
“The big news is hips.”— Fashion note.
But big hips isn’t news.
4* 4 4 4
“No prickly-pear in Europe.”
—Scientific journal.
What about Hitler and Stalin?
•i* 4 4 4
“Mae West keenly interested in science of
vitamins.” —Film guff.
Come up and “C” me sometime.
4* 4 *b 4
“The happy bridle and bridegroom departed
by car for the north.”
—Southland (M.L.) paper.
Exactly!
4* 4* 4 4
“Housewives of the future will only have to
touch a few buttons and their work will be
done by electricity.”— Scientific mag.
The trouble is most wives won’t touch
buttons.
“What is haggis?” asks a correspondent.
It’s a Scottish dish that tastes so bad
that the inhabitants eat it as an antidote
to listening to the bagpipes.
“Most artists have a hard financial row to
hoe.” —Sydney weekly.
“What are the original six jokes?”
—Literary course.
Our State Parliaments.
4* 4 4 4
“What do the initials N.S.F. stand for on
the back of a cheque?” asks correspondent.
Not So Funny.
4 4* 4* 4
A boil is a pimple whose success has
gone to its head.
4 4 4* 4*
“Even fashion has its dictators.”
— “World’s News.”
But will they get a bustle on?
“Five more minutes! Come on, step on it, lad—you
ain't workin' now."
These days even rulers aren’t straight.
4 4 4 4
“The stars foretell that the future will not
be altogether gloomy.”— Astrological blurb.
After all, these child film prodigies
have got to grow up sooner or later.
4* -I* 4* . 4
“Film celebrity champion marksman.”
A shooting star.
“Nothing undermines the intellect more
quickly than liquor.” —Prohibition lecturer.
“What he saw lying on the bed looked very
like a woman’s hat.” — Women’s paper.
By which he gathered that it wasn’t
one.
4* 4*
By Request.
“Prisoners complained of their sleep being
disturbed, and requested that warders be sup-
plied with slippers.”— “Sun.”
The customer is always right, and we
all know that prisoners are slippery
customers. As the governor of the gaol
is the “big noise,” we expect a demand
for his removal shortly. If only they
could train warders to walk on their
hands, prison life would become more
attractive. If things keep on going the
way they are some of the old hands will
walk out in disgust. This uncouth stomp-
ing of warders would upset any beauty
sleep. And there are some real beauties
in our gaols!
McM.
'“Outstanding Film. Accent of Mt. Everest.”
—Oamaru “Mail” ( M.L. ).
In fact, it’s easy to stumble over.
►l* 4 4 4
“Most radio humor is spontaneous.”
—Wireless paper.
What radio humor?
It Gees in Ear.
“Why Men Have Bigger Ears than Women.”
— “World’s News.”
Dame Nature, by some oversight
That’s cursed by many a battered pug,
Gave man big ears so that it might
Be easy for a blonde to bite
With greater ease her sugar’s lug.
Another reason why Bill’s ear
Is generous compared with Mag’s
Shell-shapen lobes, it would appear,
Is that he’ll never fail to hear
Of his shortcomings when she nags!
P. M.
A Spree on Hats.
“A woman finds a certain intoxication in a
new hat.”— Women’s paper.
Directly Maria got her new hat it went
to her head. Recklessly, when she met
Martha Jones, she grabbed her arm and
said, “Why, darling ! I haven’t seen you
for ages. What about having a hat with
me?”
Of course Martha returned the shout,
and when the pair, by this time very
exhilarated, met Jane Rogers it was
natural for them to invite her to have a
hat with them. Jane is one who boasts
that she takes hats in moderation, but
she’s not the woman to refuse a hat when
it is offered to her. After that one hat
led to another, so to speak.
It was really very embarrassing to md
to meet Maria on the train, very much
the worse for hats. She was talking
loudly and sometimes waying a hat in
the air.
“This is pretty hot,” I said, interrupting
her in a ribald hat song.
“There you go—nagging!” she said.
“Just because a woman has a few hats!”
“How much of my money have you
spent in the last couple of days?” I said
sternly. The thought was a nightmare
which made cold drops of sweat stand
on my forehead.
“I drew every penny we had from the
bank and spent it,” she said defiantly.
I woke with a start, but to an intense
relief. My nightmare must have tangled
Maria’s demand with some of her obser-
vations about my drinking habits, which
she was still making. But Maria will never
know why, when I opened my eyes sud-
denly (she thought my sleep only pre-
tended), I caved in about that hat.
H. M.
They draw —but never from the bank ;
Life's sketchy, in a sense;
They seem to wield the pens all right,
But can’t keep hold of pence.
ELM.
Once in my callow youthfulness
I craved one word from thee.
And now it seems your tongue won’t rest
Until eternity.
PATON.
Tis said that whisky in excess
Will make the senses duller;
But snakes I’ve seen have mostly been
In brilliant technicolor!
A. S. A.
Some Little-known Facts About
Arabia.
II.
ITS HISTORY.
The earliest ruling dynasty was founded
by Shedad, leader of the savage ’Ad tribe
in Hadramaut. He was succeeded by his
son Och Bedad, whose name is still re-
vered by certain provincial Governments
in lands far from Arabia, for it was he
w ho during a depression first hit on the
j dea p Utt j n g unemployed Bedouins to
work between siroccos, shifting sand
from one place to another, so that by
ma king them level there would be less
wear and tear on the deserts.
The Yemenite sovereignty was over-
{hrow* b k the Abyssinian invasion of
A.D. 529. This conquest was short-lived.
The Ethiopian leader, Watta Nalak, was
one of the Gofa tribe which cut steaks
off their living animals. On an expedi-
bon to con Q uer th e Calender, a fertile
stri P °. £ e " em y countr >' whic , h * e
assured him was rich in dates, Watta
imprudently walked behind an Arabian
bull camel and tried to slice a porter-
house steak off its stern with his scimitar,
The expedition returned to Addis Ababa
forthwith to see if there was a medicine
man there capable of mending a broken
neck.
A great revolt by the Mustareb tribes
finally ended the Yemenite rule. Koleyb
became the new ruler and a popular
national hero when he slew a taxgatherer
with his own hands,
The Mustarebs were in turn displaced
by the Koreysh, who, ruling from the
Hejaz, started anew religion. But, de-
spite the persuasive efforts of their num-
erous secret police, it was a flop, and
the clan leaders could get no more than
40 p.c. return on their outlay. They then
started the great annual Fair of Okad,
which was devoted to horseracing, ath-
letic games and poetic recitals.
The period that followed was the
golden age of Arabian trade. Most-
favored-nation agreements were signed
with Persia, which had built up a big
export trade in cats, and with Armenia,
whose adverse trade balance in massacres
had previously led to much friction be-
tween the two countries.
In the seventh century Mahomet, him-
self a descendant of the Koreysh, trans-
formed the country. The great Prophet
founded the new pilgrimage industry in
Mecca, and thereby gained the powerful
support of the Retail Traders’ Association.
Rows among Mahomet’s numerous
relatives as to the succession after his
demise threatened to split the country, but
Abu-Bekr, one of the Prophet’s fathers-
in-law, got the verdict over Ali, a son-in-
law, by half the blade of a dagger. There
followed an illustrious period of Arabian
arms. Khaled, the new caliph’s great
general, conquered Syria, Persia (the
most-favored-nation treatment agreement
being interpreted by the Arab dictator to
include war as well as trade), Egypt,
North Africa and Spain. Even southern
France was invaded. The only check the
army suffered was at Marseilles, when
the Amazons of the Quai Circulaire dis-
trict held up the troops for several days.
The now huge Islamic empire came
under the domination of Othman, the
third caliph, who married the daughter
of the kindred house of Muslim. It was
the proud boast of this branch of the
Prophet’s family that it could never be
torn apart. But Fatimah so annoyed
Othman by her habits of eating biscuits
in bed and playfully sticking chewed-
up gum arabic in his beard that he rose
in his wrath against her house and the
first of the Islamic civil wars began.
In a.d. 1517 the Turkish sultan, Selim
1., after conquering Egypt, obtained a
bloodless investiture of the Mohammedan
caliphate, and at Mecca was presented
with the keys of the city. But they
woudn’t fit and, in a rage, he sacked the
city officials and reduced Arabia to a
Turkish dependency.
S. W. K.


. %
:
m
m
■
I!
m
t
*o ul
Q\l«
Out of the ashes of the old Kosciusko Chalet, has arisen a
new modern hostelry ... a home de luxe for devotees of the ski.
The architects' ambition was to make this building the most
modern of its type in the world. Hence their choice of Masonite
Presdwood, one of the "Wonder Boards of 1000 Uses" for use
to a height of eight feet on all walls throughout the new
Chalet. In all, 22,000 feet of Masonite are assisting to make
the new Chalet a building of which Australia may well be
proud.
CANE-ITE protects the Chalet from Cold and noise. Ask for samples
and full details of this new cane fibre insulating board.
ĵ
IliffifT
PR ES D WOO D : TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE QUARTRBOARD DE-LUXE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE COLONIAL SUGAR
Sydney . . . Melbourne .
REFINING COMPANY LTD. (Building Materials
. . Brisbane . . . Adelaide . . . Perth
Division)
MA4B-9
EVERY MARRIED MAN
shilling " a eek away re « u]arl y now "'ill buy a surprisingly
large amount- of secuilty for your; dependants in- the- event of your death Bv takino- out Yn
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife's 3d age ’
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds ‘o meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary s report see “Bulletin,” 26/1 /’ 38.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.*
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan,-Secretary.,
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, .Brisbane
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide
Western Australia * Warwick House, . St. George’s Terrace Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the 'States.
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO YEARS’
j
ĵ
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 1 1
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle ..
Superfine steel, ivory handle
ALL POST FItEE.
12/6
.. 15/6
.. 21/-
CRAIG
654 George
iydney
BUSINESS, ROLLERY, ETC.
War and' Investments
Higher prices for a number of things,
especially imported goods, are already in
evidence since war broke out. In most
cases the sellers are on a good thing, since
they have not yet had to pay war-time
prices for goods landed in Australia.
Later on the landed cost will assur-
edly rise. In the case of metals
and chemicals the market levels are
of almost world-wide uniformity, and
therefore rises and falls in Australia
are -virtually automatic —the rises es-
pecially. It is the intention of the Federal
Government to “prevent profiteering” in
“certain proclaimed goods,” prices ruling
on Aug. 31 being accepted as a base. If,
giving due regard to rises in production
costs that are occurring and may continue
to occur, prices are controlled fairly, it
should be for the good of the country.
But it is a big job.
In B. 29/3/’39, dealing with the protec-
tion of investors’ money in the event of
war, the following opinion in regard to
ordinary shares as investments was ex-
pressed :
The time-honored and instinctive selling-out
of commodities and equities at the sound of
the bugle becomes debatable under present-day
financial conditions. This selling instinct un-
doubtedly persists, as noticed in the share-
markets last September, and to a lesser degree
in March. In the momentary panic it seems
to be forgotten that war would increase indus-
trial and transport activity, it would stimulate
demand for many raw materials, it would cause
shortage of labor and increase the demand
for money.
The obvious result of this unhealthy, waste-
ful but nonetheless definite stimulus would
be to inflate. Inflation might be expected in
prices, in wages, other costs and charges, and
in interest rates. Only those concerns free to
buy and sell as they pleased, and to budget
for an extra profit commensurate with the de-
preciated value of money and higher interest
rates, would have a chance of maintaining the
buying power of their distributions (dividends)
to shareholders. If the interest rate on gilt-
edged fixed-interest stocks rose from, say, 4 p.c.
to 5 p.c., the market value of 4 p.c. issues
would fall, whereas it would be possible,
with fortunate trading, for ordinary share-
holders in an industrial co. to have their divs.
stepped up with increasing interest levels and
high commodity prices, and to suffer no loss
of investment value.
Inflation of some kind would be the one
sure thing if war broke out. Large-scale waste
always .brings on this financial bugbear. The
waste of war would be a national tragedy,
its incidence falling on everyone in the form
of increased taxation to meet charges on debts
incurred in financing war. The winner of a
war is financially a loser nearly always.
But this page’s belief is that industries, repre-
senting as they do the backbone of a nation’s
welfare, will survive as long as there is a
people to support them and be supported by
them. Equities in such industries, though fluc-
tuating in value in particular circumstances and
lading out altogether in isolated cases, repre-
sent an interest in the real weatlh of a
country....
An ordinary share does not represent a right
to a fixed sum of interest, laid down by con-
tract and protected by law, but is equivalent
to a proportionate interest in the profits from
the ellorts, organisation and efficiency of an
enterprise, and from the property and mate-
rials in its possession.
, t ln . Vl ' e .w .of the present trend towards
nationalisation” and the greater scope of the
income-tax authorities (not forgetting that
Commonwealth income tax is a legacy of the
Great War), it is probable that there would,
under war conditions, be legislative efforts to
‘ even up” the burden of war on all sections
ol the people. There would perhaps be war-
time profits tax, and possibly some conscrip-
tion of capital, or enforced subscription to
Government loans.
But in spite of all these possible responsi-
bilities that industry might have to bear during
a war, the nature and importance of industry
give it (and ordinary capital invested in it) a
right of way through other branches of our
economy that cannot be denied without un-
favorable reactions of a national character.
And so the conclusion is arrived at that ord.
shares in well-handled industries represent as
good an investment as any, and a better one
than many, taking all in all.
Now that war is with us that opinion,
which was in similar terms to many pre-
vious articles, needs no revision. It is
enough to add that sterling currency has
already depreciated by nearly 15 • p.c.
in terms of gold, and, though a “scare”
rather than an economic rate, it has made
the cost of goods imported by Australians
from countries other than Britain at least
that much dearer. Some of our export
prices are also rising. Metals and metal
shares have already started to lift notice-
ably. And increased taxation came into
force last Saturday.
Britain has again decided to buy the
Australian wool clip for the duration.
The Commonwealth Government has
appointed a central committee to control
the handling, appraisement and shipping
of wool. Commonwealth nominees on
the committee are Alex. F. Bell (formerly
of the Commonwealth Bank board),
chairman, and N. W. Yeo, executive
member. J. P. Abbott, D. T. Boyd and
B. A. N. Cole will represent the growers ;
Frank N. Young, N. J. Carson and T. S.
Cheadle the brokers; J. R. McGregor
the buyers ; and F. C. Laycock the manu-
facturers. Most of the committee are
widely known in the wool industry.
Priminister Menzies has stated that the
average price to be paid under the
appraisement scheme will be known very
soon, and it may perhaps prevent losses
being incurred by growers through selling
too hastily.
During the Great War the purchase
by the British Government of all Aus-
tralian wools, allowing for Common-
wealth manufacturers’ requirements, be-
gan with the 1916-17 season. It is in-
teresting to review the economic con-
dition of the wool industry before, dur-
ing and after the Great War. At the
close of last century the Commonwealth
wool cheque worked out at £l6 14s. Bd.
a bale for the season. Next year it was
about half that price. For the 12 years
1902-3 to 1913-14 the seasonal average
never rose higher than £l3 18s. 7d. or
fell lower than £ll 10s. Bd. a bale. That
remarkable stability is typical of the
halcyon days of the era preceding the
Great War. What happened to wool
prices after war broke out is shown in
this table:
' Australian Clip ,
Av. Price
IQII .. Bales Sold. Per Bale.
9 1-? ’* •’ 1 >700,494 £ll 16 3
92- 3 .. .. 1,518,650 13 11 9
93- 4 .. .. 1,703,744 13 6 2
- •• •• 1,222,872 12 3' 7
95- 6 .. .. 1,443,118 15 7. 6
£‘ 17 • •• 1-670.281 20 1 8
9J- 8* .. .. 1,907,331 22 6 1
9 8-19* .. .. 2,030,916 22 6 4
9*9-20* .. .. 2,045,912 22 1 9
920-21 .. . 791,409 16 11 5
1921-22 .. .. 2,226,758 16 15 0
* Appraisement seasons.
Throughout the period of appraisement
and British purchase (1916-17 to 1919-20),
a flat rate of 15|d. a pound greasy (55
p.c. up on the 1913-14 average) was paid,
appraisers putting a price on the different
grades of staple within the limits of the
average agreed upon. During the period
the price to the Australian grower rose
7°nnnnnn 2 i? ? bale ’ and the c,ip passed
2,000,000 bales a year. As might have
been expected with a shortage of labor
due to the rapid filling-up of the A.I.F.
and the inflation in other prices that
occurred, costs of wool production in-
creased. But during the period of British
purchase wool prices were entirely satis-
factory to the Australian grower.
The appraisement scheme is not to be
confused with Bawra. The British Aus-
tralian Wool Realisation Association
came later. When appraisement ceased
soon after the end of the war there were
found to be large stocks and poor de-
mand following dislocation of foreign
exchanges, etc. Sales and prices slumped
in the 1920-21 season, and on January
27, 1921, Bawra was formed to market
the current clip and also the carryover
wools of the Australian growers and the
British Government. Its operations were
successful, and in the 1922-23 season
Australian wool sold at an average of
£23 18s. 7d. a bale. Next year the mean
price was £3l 7s. lOd. —the clip was small
—and, bad seasons continuing, in 1924-
25 a record price of £34 19s. Bd. a bale
was averaged. Recent clips have been
about twice the size of those between
1923 and 1925, and the present price isn’t
half what it was in those hectic years.
Highest average quote since the depres-
sion was £2O 14s. 2d. in 1936-37, which
was preceded by £l7 12s. 3d. in 1935-36
and succeeded by £l5 15s. sd. in 1937-38.
Average price for greasy and scoured
sold over the five years to June 30 last
was a shade under £l6 a bale (about
12id. a pound), which compares with
£l3 4s. a bale (10yd.) realised during the
1938-39 season.
The clip for 1938-39 was 2,970,000
bales. That for 1939-40 is tentatively put
at 3,096,500 bales. Wool sales, which
were to have commenced on Monday,
August 28, were, postponed on account
of the threatening overseas position, and
now, of course, have been shelved for
the period of British Government pur-
chase.
* * * *
Gold rose to the record price of £8 Bs.
an ounce in Britain last Wednesday, an
increase of 19s. 6d. an ounce on the
figure averaged from the beginning of this
year up to August 25, when regulation
of the price was no longer attempted. At
£8 Bs. the price stayed for the rest of the
week. Apparently the idea of the moment
is to make refugee capital pay full price
for safe conduct out of Britain. Thus, by
deterring the exodus, British gold and
credits will be protected to some extent.
Although sterling may have been over-
valued in terms of dollars for some little
time before the Equalisation Fund un-
pegged the rate, the recent heavy depre-
ciation has not been justified by Britain’s
balance of trade or other similar econo-
mic factors. The sterling exchange rate
is now a “scare” rate pure and simple,
though it may possibly be prophetic of
the true rate if the strain of war is pro-
longed.
* * . * *
With the fall in sterling to a 1685.-an-
ounce-fine-gold basis (from 148 s. 6d.) the
London exchange rate on stable cur-
rencies has depreciated by at least a
further 13.5 p.c. This also applies to
Australia ; last week the exchange cost
of importing from the U.S.A. was about
15 p.c. higher than a month ago.


ĵ
AUSTRALIA* ITALIC
SMOPMCa© £®»M]y[Lm
2AQ GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
First impressions count for a lot these days and a
smooth, well-shaven face is as necessary as the wearing
of a clean collar! When a man’s job brings him into
contact with many people it pays him to take the
utmost care of his personal appearance. Perhaps that’s
why literally millions more men use the Gillette shaving
system than any other. They aren’t deceived by the
false economy of cheap blades. They use Gillette because
they know that it will give them the smoothest, most
comfortable shaving in the world —and, because Gillette
blades last so much longer, they actually save money!
GILLETTE SETS 1/9 TO 45/- • BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
5 FOR 1/6 • STAINLESS GILLETTE BLADES 5 FOR 2/-
In Australia, Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane ’Changes reopened on Tuesday
of last week on a timid note but without
much selling in evidence. Adelaide re-
opened on Wednesday. London Stock
and Metal Exchanges were both closed
at this time, and New York, being in a
neutral boat, was situated differently
from Empire investment markets. Wall-
street, indeed, on Tuesday accepted the
European war as manna from heaven,
and prices and turnover in boom pro-
portions were the vogue. There was an
average rise of 10 points in the Dow-
Jones index of Industrial shares, and
nearly six million shares —nearly a fort-
night’s dealings on the average of the
previous few weeks—changed hands on
Tuesday alone. On Wednesday and
Thursday prices held, and turnover for
the two days was million shares.
Though export of arms to belligerent
countries is claimed to be forbidden
by the U.S.A.’s Neutrality Act, it is
plain that American speculators foresee
a stimulus to United States industry aris-
ing from the war in Europe. It was the
Great War of 1914-18 that gave the
U.S.A. its artificially high standard of
living and put it in a position to beat
the world in the mass production and
distribution of manufactures for a num-
ber of years after the war. The fact that
the U.S.A.’s export industries were busy
throughout the war was responsible for
great internal activity also, even though a
lot of the exports were never paid for.
But since Britain, the Empire, the Conti-
nent, Japan and some other countries
have become more self-sufficient with the
passing of years, the U.S.A. has been
experiencing great industrial distress.
Without fortuitous “help” in the shape
of war in other countries, it is difficult
to see how the Roosevelt economic policy
is going to pull the States out of the mud.
And though war may bring a boom to
American industry for a period, in the
long run it is bound to weaken the coun-
try’s economic backbone further.
Like everything else having to do with
the war up to the end of last week, the
atmosphere surrounding operations on
Australian ’Changes was “queer.” For
the greater part of tha time there were
no basemietal quotes from London (ex-
cept for tin), and it wasn’t until Thursday
that the London Metal Exchange decided
to open for “a short midday session.” In
the meantime Australian speculators kept
an eye on New York, where all com-
modities, including metals, began to rise,
some swiftly, and there was sharp re-
covery in most of our base-metal stocks.
Last Friday’s quotes are here compared
with those of a week earlier:
XT , „ Sept. 1. Sept. 8.
North Broken Hill .. 435. Od. 48s Od
Zinc Corp 765. 6d. 87s. 6d.
B.H. South .. .. 245. 6d. 295. Od.
Mt- Lyell .. .. 255. Od. 31s. 3d.
Bnseis Tin .. .. 7s. 9d. Bs. 3d.
Larut ss. 3d. Bs. Od.
Pungah 19s. 6d. 225. 9d.
The fact that Britain will be taking most
of our surplus commodities at what
should be better prices than those aver-
aged over the past 12 months has
prompted a wide speculative interest.
Speculation should be kept within
bounds, however. Violent upward move-
ments in prices, on Stock Exchanges and
elsewhere, can be just as damaging as
violent downward plunges. And very
often sharp upward movements are fol-
lowed by downward ones just as sharp.
Most speculators lost money out of the
last boom and slump, so that, beyond
endeavoring to protect their capital,
dabbling in speculative fields now has
no economic justification. Speculation
brings instability, and instability breeds
discontent among employees and em-
ployers, among producers and consumers.
Those are the very evils that this country
at the moment should defend itself
against most assiduously.
The imminence of a wool-purchase
scheme by the British Government re-
sulted in a rise of 3s. 6d. a share in
Goldsbrough Mort last Thursday. G.M.
has station properties, like the N.Z. Loan
and some unlisted British-domiciled
pastoral cos. Winchcombe Carson and
other concerns of a purely broking nature
firmed last week, but not in such spec-
tacular fashion as Goldsbroughs.
Bank of New South Wales £2O shares
slumped to the lowest level of modern
times when £24 14s. was accepted on
Thursday. The yield available from
Australia’s largest bank was just under
5 p.c. at the close of the day’s dealings.
Commercial of Sydney flopped to £l6 55.,
but the fall here wasn’t proportionately
as heavy as in the case of the ’Wales.
In the slump of 1930-34 C.B.S. were
below their present level, whereas ’Wales
shares never sank under £25. On Friday
there was recovery to £25 6s.
* * * *
With wheat rising in Chicago and
Winnipeg and the position obscure in
Great Britain, there was some speculation
in the Australian grain markets last week.
On Thursday 3s. a bushel was paid in
Sydney, the highest price for 12 months.
There was a reaction on Friday. The
various schemes for assisting wheat-
growers are now entirely in the air.
* * * *
United Provisions has maintained its
ord. div. at 3 p.c. (7.2 d. a share). The
scrip last week was steady at Bs. This
concern, representing a merger of Hut-
ton’s and Foggitt Jones, has been having
a comparatively lean time ever since
slump-time, but its finances have been
kept healthy. There may be a greater
demand now for tinned and preserved
foods, in the light of prevailing condi-
tions, and the co. may re-establish some
of the earning power that has been lost.
* * * *
Australian politicians and red-tape
merchants generally seem to delight in
playing the part of big-gun “organisers,”
stiflers, controllers, censors, etc., on the
very slightest of excuses. Most States
have Transport Departments that were
brought into being as “boards” during
the slump to “save” the higgledy-piggledy
railway systems ; the slump has passed
so long ago that we are expecting the visit
of a new one any day (the war may
frighten it temporarily), but we still have
transport “control.” We still have unem-
ployed-relief tax, exacted per medium of
a cheeky system of “collect and deliver
it yourself, and don’t answer back.” The
whole Government system throughout
Australia is disorderly, top-heavy and
ever a prey to disunity, opportunism and
expediency. Australia, in fact, where it
is not governed by expediency, seems to
be run by civil servants playing at being
dictators in their own sphere. Invariably
their playing is irksome and costly to
those who, by individual effort, try to
make their country a better place foi
themselves and others to live in.
* * * *
Associated Pulp and Paper (Tas.), the
accounts of which were dealt with here
last week, should get all the protection it
wants if present conditions in the paper
trade continue. Newsprint has begun to
soar already, and though the co. doesn’t
turn out this particular product all other
classes of paper are on the rise. If
Britain quickly clears the seas of enemy
fighting craft prices may come back
closer to normal. But it was immedi-
ately after the Great War that paper
rose to its highest price. Last week
Associated Pulp announced a lifting of
its prices to the level aimed at if the
Tariff Board granted the protection re-
cently asked for.
* * * *
For the year 1914 the average cost of
“all items of household expenditure” as
computed by the Commonwealth Statis-
tician stood in an index at 1140, up 140
points since 1911. In 1921 the index had
risen to 1680. In 1928 it stood at 1675,
crashing to 1335 in 1933 as a result of
the deflation that followed the slump. In
March this year the index had stepped
up to 1524 again, indicating the measure
of reflation and actual inflation that has
taken place since then. When comparing
1914-18 prices of commodities with those
of to-day it is necessary, in order to
compare the real worth of those prices,
to take into account the changes in the
cost of living that have been occurring
almost continuously since 1914.
* * * *
A pocket-size Directors and Secre-
taries’ Manual has been produced by
G. E. Seaton, LL.B., assisted by Alan
T. Stewart, LL.B.; it aims to guide direc-
tors and secretaries through the high-
ways and by-ways of the N. S. Wales
Companies Act of 1936. In its com-
pressed shape it clarifies many (of the
many) duties and responsibilities of
directors and secretaries set out under
the new Act, and it is no labor to read.
It may surprise a number of people to
learn that, “apart from special provision
in the articles of association, directors
cannot claim travelling expenses.” Two
lines that should be worth the 7s. 6d.
asked for the Manual to brand-new
directors are, “The honor and glory of
being appointed a director is not what
it at first sight appears.”


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WHAT ABOUT AMERICA?
[Australians who were led to believe, by newspapers,
magazines and films, that America would be “with
us” the moment war broke out were badly sold. Isola-
tion was the keynote of the President’s broadcast on the
outbreak of war, and isolation is the policy of the two
important statements from the U.S.A. on this page.
The first, by ex-President Hoover, appeared in the
"American Magazine,” and is here condensed from
“Reader’s Digest.”]
We were at the front in the Great War for only a
few months, but it cost us the lives of 130,000 men. It
has cost us 40 billions of dollars. A large segment of
our people have already been impoverished for a
quarter of a century. And the end is not yet.
We may, need to go to war again. But that war
should be on this hemisphere alone and in defence of
our firesides or our honor. For that alone should we
pay the price.
I reluctantly joined in the almost unanimous
view of our countrymen that America must go into
the Great War. 1 believed that we could impose an
enlightened peace, that we could make it a war to end
war, that we could make the world safe for the spread
of human liberty. If experience has any value, there
are in the wrecking of these hopes a thousand reasons
why we should never attempt it again.
When President Wilson arrived in Paris he won
some victories for sanity. But his defeats proved that
American idealism and American ignorance of the
invisible forces in Europe can only confuse the grim
necessities of European peace.
In Europe they speak of international “power”
politics in terms of a game. The goal is national
defence or national aggression. It is a game of con-
stantly shifting forces and delicate moves, based not
alone on bluff but oil guns. I do not believe we should
sit in that game, either in their interest or ours. Our
idealism and uncertainties of policy only befuddle
the movements of expediency and delicate adjustments
in which they are compelled to live. And our stakes
are the lives of millions of sons of America, another
25 years of national impoverishment, perhaps even the
sinking of intellectual and spiritual liberty for a
century.
And Europe plays power politics against us, as in
the instance of the European war and reconstruction
debts to us. The repudiation of these debts has a
double sting, for the Allies repeatedly informed their
former enemies that the reason they exacted repara-
tions was because they had to pay the money over
to the Shylock of the Western World. They stated
they would reduce the indemnities by whatever the
United States, in turn, would cancel to them. By
such power politics they consolidated Central Europe
into their propaganda to cancel the debts. Moreover,
their propaganda told us, and a host of Americans
re-echoed, that they could not pay because they could
not transfer money in such great quantities from one
nation to another. But these very nations to-day have
shipped four billions of money to this country for
investment since they repudiated their debts.
It is dinned in our ears that we shall inevitably
be drawn into the inevitable war. That depends upon
our own will to keep out.
We are told that we must join in war, or democ-
racy will disappear from the earth. We were origi-
nally going to quarantine dictators and again save
democracy. To-day, with two or three dictators in
our team, we have had to drop the “democracy front”
and “dictators,” and speak of “aggressors.” That only
indicates how rapidly we can move from sheer ideal-
ism into combat.
We are told that if the democracies fall we shall
be the next victim. My sympathies are with the
democracies. But I do not agree that they will fall;
they comprise great empires of hundreds of millions
of people with all the resources needed to secure their
defence. Whether they preserve their democracies is a
question of their own will. But if they do fall, the ex-
haustion of the dictators will be such that these coun-
tries will leave us alone for a quarter of a century at
least.
To-day the European anti-Nazi press is confident
we intend to join in their wars. If we don’t their
peoples will hate us for a generation. And th£y will
deluge us with cries of cowardice by way of further
propaganda.
What profit it if, by joining in war to extinguish
totalitarian systems, we lose our own American life?
We can never go through another great war without
becoming a totalitarian State ourselves. By far the
greatest service we can give to civilisation is to hold
the lamp of liberty alight on this continent.
Close to Europe?
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post” editorial.)
The very vocal citizens who would like to see
this country abandon its traditional isolation contend
that Washington’s advice to keep out of Europe’s
affairs is badly dated. The nation was safe enough
when he made his Farewell Address, because a fast
sailing-ship required a month to make the Atlantic
crossing. The Clippers now fly the same route in just
under 24 hours.
If Washington could speak to-day, they continue,
he would recognise that we are now practically a part
of the European continent, and his advice would be
very different. We gather that he would advise us to
buy a stack in the cutthroat stud game of European
power politics.
We don’t think he would. Washington was not
farther from Europe than we are. He was closer to it.
He was, in a literal sense, standing on a European
continent and in a European hemisphere. In South
America, Brazil belonged to Portugal. All the rest
was a possession of the Spanish Crown. England,
France and Spain divided the West Indies. To Spain
also belonged all of Central America, all of Mexico,
including Texas, Arizona, New Mexico and California,
Florida, our present Gulf Coast, New Orleans and
Louisiana. Our northern frontier was still fortified
and heavily garrisoned by British regulars and an active
and hostile Canadian militia. Alaska belonged to the
Tsar.
In Europe, the French Revolution had set off an
ideological conflict, accompanied by large-scale wars.
Far less isolated than we are, Washington advised
isolation. With far more reason than we can possibly
have, he might have said: “Let’s make a French or a
Russian alliance, to protect us against England or
Spain.” But he didn’t. He said, in effect: “Let’s
mind our own business.”
Seventy Years of It.
(Condensed from a London “Sunday Times” article by .
J. A. Spender.)
I scarcely exaggerate if I say that how to live
with Germany has been the question of questions in
international affairs throughout the whole of my life-
time. From the time when Bismarck crashed through
all opposition in his series of planned wars and
founded the German Empire on blood and iron, fear
of Germany and what would happen to her neigh-
bors if she established her hegemony in Europe was,
through all superficial changes, the one persistent
cause of anxiety even among those Powers which had
linked their fortunes with hers.
This it was which created the coalition that led
to her defeat in 1918 ; which prevented a moderate
peace ; which ruined the Locarno settlement and all
efforts to promote disarmament and Treaty revision
through the League, which still stands in the way of
— "Marianne,” Paris.
IS THAT LIVING SPACE?
concessions that, if Germany were trusted to act as
a good neighbor, we and most other nations would
acknowledge to be just.
I have often heard the retort made by Germans
that they had as good reason to fear our “hegemony”
as we had to fear theirs. Who were we to talk to
them, we with our command of the sea and our claim
to include a good quarter of the globe in our Empire?
The answer was that no one feared our command
of the sea as everyone feared Germany’s command
of the land. We never talked of our will and our
determination to use our mailed fist if it were resisted.
It is not hostility to the German people, but the
doctrine of their rulers that their will is law which
has revived all the old fears and brought us back
to the position of 1914. A very few years ago the
British people were ready for a large revision of the
post-war treaties, and they would be .so again if it
were not for the fear which German action has in-
spired that concessions would be merely an excuse
for more demands.
“The war,” said a German general in the summer
of 1917, “has been far too prolonged.” That is the
opinion of most of us about the war, now of words
and now of physical forces, which has been going on
between Germany and her neighbors for more than
70 years.
Berlin’s Air-raid Precautions.
(Condensed from an article by Anthony Mann in
London “Daily Telegraph.”)
Foreign observers in Berlin during the recent air-
raid precautions exercises were unanimous in their
admiration of the discipline of the civilian population.
They were required to take instant cover during a
sudden “raid” alarm in the early evening, and later
to co-operate in a blackout which, scheduled to last
a week, was suspended after the first night.
I looked down upon the crossing of Berlin’s
busiest boulevard, Unter den Linden, and one of the
most important business streets, the Friedrichstrasse,
when the “raid” alarm was given. After eight minutes
not a single civilian was to be seen on the streets, and
all private and public vehicles were drawn up empty
at the kerb.
At night I toured Berlin in a taxi-cab, which, in
common with every other car, drove with hooded
lights. The darkening of private windows was almost
perfect, and only in a very few cases had insufficiently
opaque materials been used. Trams and buses were
illuminated only by dark-blue or red bulbs ; the kerb
crossings were painted white.
The Berlin exercises, which affected 5,000,000
inhabitants, were not an isolated instance, because
similar tests have taken place in almost every large
town in the Reich, including Hamburg, Stuttgart,
Frankfort-on-the-Main, Dresden, Leipzig and Cologne.
Such tests are conducted in Germany by three
authorities in collaboration ; the police, the Air Force
and the Reich A.R.P. League. The police can arrest
any person who refuses to carry out the exercises or
who fails to darken his windows during a blackout.
The Reich A.R.P. League, an official body work-
ing in close contact with the Air Ministry, controls a
system which resembles fairly closely the British sys-
tem of air-raid wardens. The greater number of
German town-dwellers live in large blocks of flats,
each of which has an A.R.P. warden responsible to
the Reich A.R.P. League.
No free distribution of “people’s gas masks,” such
as has been carried out in Britain, has yet taken place
in the Reich. The German citizen must buy a mask
for himself at a price of five marks (ss. at par). Only
members of the Active Air Protection Squads are fur-
nished with more elaborate masks through the League
on special terms.
For those caught in the street by an air raid an
extensive system of public shelters has been built up.
Many are in conjunction with police stations, and
are in most cases reinforced and gas-proofed cellars.
The deep shelters which have been the subject of much
discussion in Britain are unknown to public A.R.P. in
Germany, where it is held impracticable to defend the
mass of the public against direct hits by heavy high-
explosive bombs.
Special shelters have been constructed near arma-
ment factories in the Government and Ministerial
quarter of Berlin, devised in some cases to resist even
a direct hit. Beneath Herr Hitler’s new Chancellery
an extensive system of gas- and bombproof shelters
runs below the building and grounds at a depth of
about 65ft. These shelters are situated below a series
of subterranean garages designed for 200 cars, and
are capable of sheltering several thousand people. The
Fiihrer himself has a shelter under the part of the
building which faces the Wilhelmstrasse.
For the most part, however, the authorities rely
upon existing cellars in private and business premises.
In this respect Germany is at a considerable advantage
over Britain, because the great bulk of German build-
ings have extensive cellar space, while the average
British suburban house seldom has a deep cellar, or
any cellar at all.
The average German town building, again, is a
strongly-constructed block of five or six storeys, so
that even in the event of a direct hit persons in the
cellars may stand a chance of escaping unhurt. This,
once more, presents a German advantage over the
comparatively flimsy English suburban villa. On the
other hand, a single bomb in a residential district in
Germany would probably do more damage than one
falling on more widely-distributed English dwelling-
houses.
The issuing of shelters to householders in Britain
has helped to equalise the frequent superiority of
German buildings for A.R.P. purposes. The work of
thousands of hard-working air-raid wardens has re-
sulted in a realisation in Britain of the vital import-
ance of adequate A.R.P., and the Englishman pos-
sesses a personal initiative not equalled by the German.
The vast scheme of exercises over south-east
England bears striking witness to the progress made.
The area covered by these operations is greater than
any yet dealt with at one time in Germany.
War by Propaganda.
[This article by Edwin Muller on propaganda in the
last war, iirst published in “Current History” and
reprinted in “Reader’s Digest,” is particularly interest-
ing in view of the British “leaflet raids” on Germany.
The article, of course, was written before the outbreak
of the present war.]
To-day the radio broadcasting stations of Europe
are being fortified with bombproof concrete and anti-
aircraft guns. For the nations have come to realise
that missiles fired from radio transmitters are as de-
structive as high explosives.
Propaganda has long been used in war. In the
Middle Ages scrolls were wrapped around arrows and
fired into beleaguered castles. Duripg the American
Revolution the Americans circulated handbills in the
British trenches offering each grenadier $7 a month
and a good farm to desert. But not until the World
War was propaganda systematically used.
When American troops moved up to the front in
July, 1918, the Germans opposite began to fight with
suddenly increased fury. Soon, from captives, the
Americans learned the reason. German officers had
been telling their men that American soldiers invari-
ably killed their prisoners. Intelligence got busy, and
soon little balloons went drifting out across the Ger-
man lines. At intervals leaflets fluttered down. Printed
in German, A.E.F. Order 106 was quoted, prescribing
that all prisoners should have humane treatment. Then
followed the typical fare served to prisoner^—beef,
white bread, beans and butter. The effect on German
soldiers, who had been drawing in their belts through
four long years of war, was immediate. At different
points along the front Germans appeared, their hands
in the air: “Kamerad.” As they were marched to the
rear each produced his leaflet, pointed urgently to
“beef, white bread, beans” And they were duly
served.
This marked an advanced stage of the battle of
words. At first the Allies had used trench mortars
to fire pamphlets into the opposite trenches. But a
soldier sprayed with old iron at one moment is not
in a receptive state of mind to literature delivered by
the same weapon at the next.
At last the Allies settled on free balloons carrying
bundles of pamphlets which were released by fuses.
This method spread to all fronts and was used by both
sides.
The best results came when leaflets could be de-
livered to solitary German sentries or to soldiers in


small groups. If they fell among large groups the
men would be likely to turn them in to their officers,
as there was a heavy penalty for keeping them. How-
ever, toward the end of the war a surprising propor-
tion of the prisoners captured had pamphlets in their
possession.
The leaflets were simple and direct. “Don’t be
slaves of the Junkers and the Hohenzollerns. The
Allies have no hatred for the German people. The
war may go on for years if you continue to follow
your selfish leaders.” “Your families are starving at
home ; the best way for you to help them is to lay
down your arms.”
One pamphlet showed a photograph of a Ger-
man just captured, thin and ragged and worn, and
another of the same man two months later, contented
and grinning. That leaflet made a great impression on
the German side. Sometimes the Allies sent over
postal cards which the German soldier could mail to
his family after he was captured, telling them that he
was safe and well.
Through their spy service, the British got the
names of 150 U-boats that had been sunk, with the
lists of officers and men of each. These lists, sup-
pressed in Germany, were circulated widely in the
home ports of the U-boats, breaking down the morale
of the crews.
The Germans, too, tried their hand. But most of
their propaganda, less skilful than that of the Allies,
was defensive of their methods of war. One leaflet
bore a photograph of a jovial German soldier feeding
a fat and contented Belgian baby which he held on
his knee. They prepared for the first American negro
troops at the front a breezy little pamphlet beginning:
“Hello, boys, what are you-all doing over here?” It
promised that the Germans would give all negroes in
the United States equality with white men. But,
because of a shift in the wind, the balloons landed
in a section occupied by French poilus.
But it was the revolution in Spain that most effec-
tively demonstrated the power of propaganda —parti-
cularly by radio. When a town was captured, the
first soldiers to enter raced for the radio station, engi-
neers rushed to repair any damage done by the re-
treating enemy, and the conquerors began to broad-
cast almost before the last of the defenders had been
dislodged.
To confuse the defending forces a transmitter
behind the attacking lines would pretend to be the
local station and make false news announcements.
Sometimes spies inside the town would raid a station,
hurriedly make false announcements, then smash the
works and flee. Loudspeakers in the front lines con-
tinually shouted invitations to the enemy to mutiny,
to desert. Back of the lines, listening to the other side
had to be done with great secrecy.
As for Hitler, he has won wars and annexed ter-
ritory with propaganda alone. Austria, Sudetenland,
Czechoslovakia, Memel —in each case the technique
has been the same. First, by radio and by literature
smuggled in from Germany, the people are told of the
might of Germany, how smoothly everything works
there, how bad are conditions everywhere else in the
world. Then the propaganda becomes aggressive.
The local rulers are denounced as brutal, criminal.
The Fiihrer will soon take action against them. Soon
the ground is prepared for the tanks and steel helmets
to move across the frontier.
If Hitler finds himself involved in a war of blood
and iron as well as words, his plans are well laid to
defend himself from propaganda such as that which
broke the German will in the last war. Experts pre-
dict that one of the first decrees will be the confisca-
tion of all private receiving sets in the Reich. The
people will be commanded to gather at stated times
around public loudspeakers to hear official propaganda.
Forster.
(Condensed from London “Daily Herald.”)
When you hear Gauleiter Albert Forster shout
“We Danzigers want to go home to the Reich,” you
would think that he was born and bred in Danzig.
He was not.
He was a young Nazi M.P. when, in 1930, he was
sent to Danzig by Hitler. His task was the organisa-
tion of the Danzig Nazi party, then still a tiny group
of unorganised radicals. He gradually succeeded in
turning Danzig into a Nazi stronghold.
Forster’s father was governor of the municipal
prison in Fiirth, the sister-town of Nuremberg. The
accident of his place of birth is responsible for young
Forster’s political career. He formed the first inti-
mate friendship of his life with Nuremberg’s Julius
Streicher, of “Der Sturmer.”
Forster then was just out of his teens. When he
lost his job as clerk in a local bank Streicher offered
him work on the advertising side of “Der Sturmer.”
The job did not promise much money, nor was it very
interesting, and Fbrster found plenty of time to
indulge in political activities as one of the first ardent
anti-Semitic Nazis. This was 10 years before Hitler
came to power.
Forster is the ideal “little Hitler.” He does not
only walk like his Fiihrer, his mannerism of speech
is exactly that of Hitler. He works according to es-
tablished Nazi standards. His current insults against
Poland are as numerous as his earlier assurances of
loyalty to Poland. In 1935 he wrote in the “Vol-
kischer Beobachter” that “Danzig wanted nothing but
to live within the framework of the existing treaties,”
and in 1937 he declared in a speech that “Danzig
knew its obligations towards Poland.”
Von Papen.
(Condensed from an article by John Appleyard in
London “Evening Standard.”)
Herr von Papen, 60-year-old Westphalian aristo-
crat who negotiated the German-Soviet non-aggression
pact, is the luckiest diplomat in Europe. All his life
he has been getting himself into scrapes and then out
of them by the skin of his teeth. For five years now
he has felt the Nazi noose tightening about his neck.
He emerged from obscurity first as an unoffend-
ing, amiable army officer appointed as military attache
to the German Embassy in Washington. He was just
one of “the dancing attaches” who graced Washing-
ton’s ballrooms.
Then suddenly all America was talking about
him. He had been appointed to take charge of Ger-
many’s intelligence service in the United States.
But Von Papen was suspected. He was held re-
sponsible for the destruction of munition stores, for
passport frauds, for sabotage against ships in neutral
ports. At last he was implicated in a conspiracy to
blow up the Welland Canal. A jury found him guilty.
He was expelled.
A few days later a neutral ship sailed into Fal-
mouth harbor. It was boarded by British authorities.
To their astonishment they discovered not merely the
German intelligence officer, but all his incriminating
papers neatly folded in his pocket. The papers went
to Whitehall. The unhappy Von Papen went back to
Germany.
Two years later he was appointed Chief of Staff
to the Fourth Turkish Army. But already Allenby’s
armies were sweeping towards the Bosphorus. Von
Papen slipped through Allenby’s fingers, but not before
he had let a trunk full of papers and dispatches fall
into the hands of the enemy.
For the next 14 years Von Papen lay low and
said nothing.
On May 31, 1932, he cropped up as a politician.
The morning papers announced that President von
Hindenburg was considering the appointment of Von
Papen as Chancellor.
All Germany sat back and laughed. German
politics, it was true, were in a fearful state, but the
“Berliner Tageblatt” voiced the opinion of the whole
people when it “considered such a facetious solution
of the problem impossible.”
That night the grin was off their faces. The new
Chancellor was none other than Von Papen. Next
day the German Federal Parliament was dismissed.
Germany was in the hands of President Hindenburg
and General Schleicher, of the Reichswehr, who had
plotted the whole alfair at the Herren Club in Berlin
and who had decided to appoint Von Papen as their
puppet.
Schleicher was the real master of the new Govern-
ment. He was waiting for his own chance. But
Von Papen would do to fill in the gap. And it was
on Schleicher’s instructions that Von Papen dismissed
the Social Democratic Ministry in Prussia. When the
time came Von Papen was discarded like an old boot.
With Hitler’s fortunes fading at the polls and the
Socialists divided, it seemed that none would be able
to question Schleicher’s authority.
But now Von Papen determined to get his own
back on Schleicher. He gained the ear of Hindenburg.
He negotiated with Hitler.
And together Hindenburg and Von Papen in-
stalled the Nazis in office. The “dancing attache”
believed himself now to be the real power behind
the Nazi throne.
A year later there was a quarrel between Captain
Rohm’s storm troops and the Reichswehr. Von
Papen spoke out bravely, but his words were lost in
the sound of bullets. The stormtroop leaders were
being set up against a wall and shot down. Schleicher
was felled with them. And Von Papen discovered to
his surprise that he was the prisoner of the Moloch
which he himself had summoned into being.
He waited in his house for the executioners to
come. His two secretaries were murdered. Only a
Reichswehr guard surrounding his house saved him
from the purge.
There have been many other anxious moments.
In May, 1938, after Von Papen had served a term
as German Minister in Vienna, a body was recovered
from the River Danube. It was identified as another
of Herr von Papen’s secretaries. An autopsy showed
that he had been chloroformed and then drowned.
Just at that time Von Papen himself was being grilled
by the Gestapo in Berlin. Herr Hitler was not pleased
with his work in Austria. He had helped bungle the
putsch against Dollfuss. He was alleged to have
written letters to an arrested person in Austria.
Once more he found it wise to lie low. He was
offered a post in Brazil.' He refused. He was appointed
“Ambassador of Special Missions.” His name was
mentioned in the New York espionage trial. Perhaps
he had left some papers lying around. Altogether he
found it wiser to go off elk-shooting with the Crown
Prince of Sweden.
But Hitler had one more job for him. He was
sent on a special mission to Turkey. Within a few
weeks Turkey had signed a treaty with Britain. He had
bungled again. Was it Von Papen’s knowledge that
his neck depended on it that was partly responsible
for his success in Moscow?
An “Atrocity” Myth.
[Manchester “Guardian’s.” Warsaw correspondent,
before the storm broke, interviews a “dead” man.]
German reports alleging ill-treatment of Germans
in Poland are fabrications. In Piekary I saw Michael
Kaletta, whom the Germans reported dead. The
German official agency reported that Kaletta had been
arrested for shooting a Polish policeman, was beaten
to death in the prison, and that his wife and child had
been thrown out of his house, which was demolished
by the mob. I visited the house and found it undam-
aged. His wife was looking well and healthy and was
preparing breakfast for their five-month-old girl, who
was asleep in a cot. “Neither of us has suffered from
anyone,” she told me. “We are only worried about my
husband, as he is in prison.”
The authorities allowed me to visit Kaletta in
prison, and I found him looking well. He is now
awaiting trial. He was arrested with about 500 Ger-
mans, of whom 450 were released after 24 hours. The
others are in gaol awaiting inquiries.
“Bombing Raid.”
[ln this (condensed) article from London “Spectator”
Graham Greene gives his impressions of a mock
bombing raid when “Eastland” and “Westland” were
at war in the recent English manoeuvres.]
The war was on and nothing mattered except care-
ful navigation, so that you descended from the clouds
on the right target, and a delicate hand and eye, so
that you didn’t crash while hedge-hopping half a dozen
counties at 200 miles an hour. At tea-time a bomber
zoomed down and up, almost brushing (so it seemed
to the inaccurate eye) the messroom window, making
everybody jump—you could shoot the mess up with-
out a court-martial, because it gave practice to the
machine-gunners round the aerodrome in sighting an
enemy target.
I hadn’t realised the amount of clothes one had
to wear; one felt like a deep-sea diver, in overalls,
with the heavy shoulder-straps and steel clamps of
the parachute equipment and the inflated waistcoat
for saving one's life at sea, the helmet with the padded
ear-pieces and the microphone attachment dangling
by the mouth with a long flex to be attached to a
point near one’s chair.
Nor, knowing only passenger ’planes, had I real-
ised the fragile look of the huge bombers inside, all
glass and aluminium, tubes coiling everywhere, a long
empty tunnel like a half-built underground leading to
the rear gun; a little cramped space in front behind
the cockpit for the navigator at his table and the wire-
less operator. In the cockpit you feel raised over the
whole world, even over your ’plane: space between
your legs and glass under your feet and glass all round,
enclosed in something like the transparent' bullet-nose
of a chlorotone capsule.
Under the feet at first there was water as we
drove for half an hour out over the North Sea, climb-
ing to 12,000 feet, hands and toes chilling. We were
the leading ’plane of four, and it was odd up there
in the huge din (the Wellington is the noisiest bomber
these pilots have handled), in the immense waste of
air, to see the pilot use the same trivial gestures through
a side window as a man might make signalling to a
car behind. Then, as an indication to the other pilots
that he needed room, he wobbled his ’plane and the
whole squadron turned, a lovely movement in the cold
clear high altitude light: the great green-brown ’planes
sweeping round in formation towards Westland and
the distant inland target.
Then the Blackwater: Gravesend —with the oil
tanks like white counters on the Tilbury side. Cloud
obscured everything, and afterwards it seemed no
time at all before the engines were shut off and each
’plane in turn dived steeply down, cutting through the
great summer castles of cloud, and it was Hampshire
below. So far no fighter squadron had intercepted
us; whether we had been a mark for anti-aircraft
guns we couldn’t tell, but they had had their last
chance. It was low flying from now on to the target
in Berkshire—a maximum height of about 200 feet
at 200 m.p.h., too low for gunfire ; nor could any
fighter squadron in the upper air observe-us as we
bumped just above the hills and woods the same color
as ourselves.
Once, miles away, little black flies at perhaps
8000 feet, three fighters patrolled a parallel track and
slowly dropped behind: we were unspotted.
In an airliner one doesn’t recognise speed—
objects below move so slowly across the window-pane
at three thousand feet; but at 200, and we were often
at 100 and sometimes as low as 50, the world does
really flash —county giving place to county, one style
of scenery to another, almost as quickly as you would
turn the pages of an atlas. We were out of Hamp-
shire, climbing a down so close to the turf that it
was like combing a head ; up the forehead and over
into Berkshire, above our target; wheeling round, and
five minutes later cutting across a fighter aerodrome,
with the ’planes lined up and the men idling and no
chance of taking off before we were away.
A long route home along the Thames, above the
film studios of North London and back into the flat
eastern counties. Over the coast at 100 feet, the popu-
lar resort, people resting on the beach after boarding-
house luncheon or taking reluctant exercise on the
pier, and out to sea again, climbing into the comfort-
able smooth upper air: then the last turn, the pilot
signalling to his squadron, and the four ’planes closing
up—the sense of racing home.
The Communists Explain
Londons Labor newspaper, the “Daily
Herald” —usually friendly towards the Soviet
■ —found Stalin’s deal with Hitler “a betrayal of
peace.” Not so the Communist “Daily
Worker” : —•
Hitler is forced to recognise the strength
and power of the Soviet Union, and his dreams
of crushing it have received a setback.
It is therefore a salutary check to his
aggressive policy in Eastern Europe, as it is a
check to the policy of Chamberlain, which was
leading to a war between the Soviet Union and
Germany.
It is a demonstration to the whole world of
the firmness, mighty power and determination
of the Soviet Union not to allow the peace of
the world to be broken either by direct Fascist
provocation or the indirect methods of support
for Fascist aggression which have been organised
by the Chamberlain Government.
The immediate consequence of this “salu-
tary check to aggression” was that Hitler
invaded Poland!


14*-
Werner’s offer their
patrons distinctive and
modern eyewear in styles
to suit every facial type.
WERNER'S
PTY. LTD.
336 Collins Street, Melbourne "
Member of the Q.O.S.
• »
f
Hi
r
- v. ss; I
I IS
Ullll
. i .
wmm
H
$m
m
■■
:
MWHHI
warn
;
THE WOMAN’S MIRROR” COOKERY BOOK
400 Pages
3000 Recipes
Acclaimed by Australian Housewives
“THE BEST RECIPE BOOK EVER”
OVER 15,000 COPIES SOLD!
.
>
m
m
P*
le. .«
m
H
I
m
m
■
m
mm
M
;■-■:/
m
' -
;
p
Wfm
%
We*
m
n
m
s
%p
11
■
t/
3s*
f
I
%P
Well bound with a stiff cover of
washable Fabrex Leather-cloth, this
book has been made possible by the
accumulated experience of ‘ Mirror
cooks. Every recipe in the book has
been tested and in most cases the
food value of the dishes has been
calculated by a well-known Woman
Doctor and is shown alongside the
recipe. Thus in addition to being
the most complete and reliable
cookery book ever offered to the
housewives of Australia and New
Zealand it is also invaluable to those
whose health demands a measured
or balanced diet.
Price
(postage extra)
from all Booksellers and Newsagents,
or direct from the Publishers.
Mark envelope “Mirror Cookery Book
and address to the Manager, The
Australian Woman’s Mirror, Box 252 188,
Sydney, N.S.W. (Post free, 3/8).
New Zealand readers should send their
orders to the “Mirror’s Wellington office,
Nathan’s Buildings (opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington. (Post free, 3/8.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
It is improbable a more interesting
field for a weight-for-age race than that
which contested the Chelmsford Stakes
will be seen out this spring. Omitting
Ajax and the three-year-olds Pure Gold
and Bonny Loch, it was as nearly as
possible the best collection that could be
brought together in Australia at the
present time.
Defaulter did not win in the fashion
anticipated by those backers who laid odds
on him, but though Beau Vite ran him
to a head it did not seem to me that
he was ever really in danger of defeat.
When Defaulter, who had a clear run
throughout, disposed of Reading immedi-
ately after entering the straight I think
Ellis was a trifle easy with him, in the
belief he had the race quite safe. If De-
faulter had been challenged a little
earlier I think his win would have been
more decisive. On the other hand, many
others who closely watched the race
reckoned Beau Vite was doing the better
at the winning post.
The pace at the commencement was
very slow, the first furlong taking over
14sec., but in going into second place
soon after the start, and then respond-
ing when tackled in the straight, De-
faulter again proved himself as solid as
believed by his admirers.
Defaulter’s win was his fifth in Sydney
for a total of £3900, and as his M.L.
earnings at two and three years amounted
to something over £6700 he was a won-
derful purchase at 170gns. as a yearling.
Royal Chief, in third place, ran par-
ticularly well, as he lost a deal of
ground when he not only collided with
the false rail near the five furlongs, but
ran into Buzalong. Royal Chief looks
bigger and stronger than when racing in
Sydney last spring, and his effort made
such a favorable impression that, even
wjth 101 b. more than when he won a
year ago, he is in demand for the Metro-
politan. Well, he will have to be out
of the ordinary to win with 9.9. Since
the distance was reduced from two miles
there have been only five winners with
9.0 or over Paris 9.2, Mooltan 9.2,
Malt King 9.1, Rebus 9’. 10 and Speci-
ality 9.0.
Ajax’s trainer and two of his part-
owners saw the Chelmsford Stakes, and
were strengthened in the belief that their
horse would beat Defaulter in Mel-
bourne. Royal Chief’s running con-
tributed to that idea.
Last spring Royal Chief ran second
to Ajax at level weights at nine and half
furlongs, a mile and a quarter and a mile
and a half, but was easily beaten each
time. In the L. K. S. Mackinnon
Stakes Ajax will be conceding Defaulter
three pounds, but taking a line through
Royal Chief’s form against Defaulter on
Saturday I doubt whether the Ajax
people now believe they have as much
to fear from Defaulter as previously
supposed.
0 • • • • •
They might be right, but Ajax is a
“front runner,” and, as Defaulter has
the pace necessary to keep fairly close
to him at any stage, there is no telling
what may happen in that long run from
the home turn to the winning-post at
Flemington. Unless knocked out by his
Melbourne Cup run, the C. B. Fisher
Plate may give Defaulter a better chance
against Ajax than the L. K. S. Mac-
kinnon Stakes. Ajax has won twice at
a mile and a half but, as a stayer, De-
faulter is better credentialled.
Adios did better than any of the other
Epsom horses that ran at Randwick on
Saturday. His trainer did not disguise
his belief in his ability to win, and, with
21b. less than his Epsom weight, the
chestnut was in a handy position from
the start of the Tramway Handicap, and
was a winner from the commencement
of the last furlong.
He is sure to continue improving, and,
as he is a winner at a mile and a quarter
at Flemington, and also ran third in the
Victoria Derby, a mile at Randwick, even
in the best handicap company, should
not be beyond him. An additional fur-
long would not have troubled him in
the Tramway Handicap.
• •••*•
When the Epsom weights were issued
I credited Adios’s stable-companion
Denis with a good chance, but it would
now be difficult to say anything in his
favor. In the Tramway Handicap he
met Adios 41b. better than Epsom terms,
was ahead of him to the home turn, and
then finished about the middle of the
field. He is a big and heavy fellow, and,
though racing will benefit him, he does
not now seem an Epsom prospect.
Sedunum, with 51b. less than his
Epsom weight, came from a long way
back to '"finish third in the Tramway
Handicap. The trouble is, though, that
he is always likely to be indifferently
placed in the early part of a short race,
though his Randwick wins include one
at seven furlongs. A little while ago his
trainer, C. O. Battye, declared he would
win the Epsom, and as, after his run of
last week, D. Munro decided he would
suit him as an Epsom mount, Darby
must share that opinion.
Caesar’s Tramway Handicap effort said
little for him as an Epsom possibility.
At seven furlongs he was running at a
distance that suits him, but never got in
it. Nor did Geebung, whose showing
greatly disappointed his owner, D. U.
Seaton. He has commenced doubles with
him, but “A poor chance after that run”
was his comment. Hybol cut up badly,
while Bradford, though he weakened a
little over the last furlong, ran fairly.
Cooranga did not win Tatt.’s Spring
Handicap, but her second should have
pleased her Metropolitan backers. Her
trainer, S. R. Lamond, jun., was more
afraid of Fearless than anything else in
Saturday’s race, but though the latter’s
chance was a winning one three-quarters
of a furlong from home he was outstayed
by Head Check and Cooranga. Fearless
may still be a Caulfield possibility with
141 b. off his back, but the trouble will
be to get a capable light rider.
• •••••
Head Check was one it was almost
impossible to credit with a winning
chance in the Spring Handicap. She had
been running indifferently at minor meet-
ings, and although excuses were made
for her in a couple of instances I must
confess that I could not see they were
warranted. Still, she beat a good field
last week. She is another instance of
“horses for courses.” She has done a
lot of racing in Sydney, and three of
her four wins have been at Randwick.
She is in the Metropolitan with 6.10.
Astounding finished strongly to win
the Three- and Four-Year-Old Handicap
at Randwick, and he carried 8.4, against
his Epsom impost of 6.10. I suppose he
will be an Epsom runner, but his big
drop may not be such an advantage to
him as it would be to many other horses.
He carries weight well in ordinary com-
pany, but a light boy may not advantage
him when opposing the best. As Astound-
ing’s lady owner is a good sport an
Epsom won by him would be well re-
ceived even though he will be one of
the long-priced division.
R. Wootton probably regrets not nomi-
nating Windbrook for the Epsom Handi-
cap. There is a wide margin between
the races in which Windbrook has been
running and Randwick’s big mile, but
he comfortably won Tatt.’s Novice Handi-
cap in 1.39| with 8.5, and in the Epsom
he would have been close to the mini-
mum, if not on it. His time was only
a half-second slower than Red Thespian
recorded in the Welter Handicap with
a pound more weight. Red Thespian
has 7.3 in the Epsom. Heiron, second
to Windbrook, is sure to win races be-
fore long. Until Windbrook put in his
claim Heiron appeared to have Satur-
day’s race safe, but could not finish
with Wootton’s horse.
* * * *
Pure Gold ran the best race of his
career to date in the Stratford Handicap
for three-year-olds at Mentone. With 9.1
he swept to the front at the half-mile,
from which stage it was no race.
Though 20 started, odds of 11 to 8
had to be laid on Holt’s candidate. Pure
Gold has developed wonderfully since
Wilson gave him 171 b. and a beating at
Caulfield last autumn. Mentone fielders
advanced him to Caulfield Cup favoritism,
displacing Millie’s Hope.
Little Gilmore being under suspension
for a month, the mount on Pure Gold
was given to Purtell, another smart
apprentice. The lad wasn’t provided with
a whip, for which Pure Gold has evinced
a strong dislike.
Drawn on almost the extreme outside,
Glenfino did well to finish second, but
was four lengths behind the winner. He
carried 7.13 and received 151 b. from In-
spector Scott, who was two lengths off
in third position. In the Caulfield Cup
Pure Gold has 6.9, Glenfino 7.0 and In-
spector Scott 7.1.
Peter Lawry, who trains Glenfino,
thinks the colt will stay. The owners,
Dr. C. N. Raphael and his wife, have de-
signs on the Victoria Derby and Mel-
bourne Cup. With 6.10 Glenfino reads
rather well in the two-miler. He is to
run in the Moonee Valley Stakes.
Fred Hoysted sprang a surprise with
Pageant in the middle-distance Powers-
court Handicap. After winning the Aus-
tralian Cup this horse was taken to Syd-
ney. He ran third in the Cabramatta
Mile at Warwick Farm, but finished only
tenth in the Sydney Cup.
In view of his burly appearance, a
first-up victory for Pageant seemed im-
probable. Owner H. E. Spry made only
a small wager. However, sevens was the
best offer at barrier-rise, despite Bathing
Beauty being a 9-to-4 favorite, with
heavy support for Temple Coyn and
Pantoon.
Though never farther back than third,
Pageant had to give Caragona seven
lengths’ start from the half-mile. He did
the job excellently, scoring by half a
length. Temple Coyn was a fair third,
but has not yet.returned to her W.A.
form. Bathing Beauty and Pantoon both
disappointed.
In the autumn Pageant was regarded
as undersized. He has furnished into a
massive stallion. He is by Manfred-Gay
Element, by Comedy King from a sister
to Blackadder, the 1924 Epsom winner.
Pageant has 8.6 in the Caulfield Cup,
for which he has firmed considerably.
Last spring he had to be withdrawn,
having contracted some muscular trouble.
Now he looks a picture of health.
Donor’s Hill (Windbag-Mira Donna)
discounted his Caulfield Cup prospects by
failing signally in the first division of the
Boisdale Welter, for which he was favor-
ite. Atticus finished even farther back.
Donor’s Hill began altogether too slowly.
The winner was Benedict, who had scored
at Ascot on the previous Wednesday and
has struck excellent form. Grand Hero
was only a neck behind Benedict; Tren-
del, half a neck away, just beat Donaster
for third. Donaster’s owners are im-
mensely pleased with his progress in
training. Like Pageant he is prepared
by F. W. Hoysted.
Manrico (5 to 4 on) ran away with
the Tinambra Handicap. Carrying 10.2,
he equalled the course record of Imin.
124 sec. for six furlongs. Manrico will
be a tough nut for visiting sprinters to
crack at the Victorian spring meetings.
Lanarus, now owned by “Darcy”
Eccles, was at 7 to 4 for the Avon Handi-
cap, but struck his colors to Windlelon
(sixes). Bridge Law (twos) missed a place
in the second division of the Boisdale
Welter, places being filled by Tourist
(fives), Coronation Day and Lynch Law.
* * * *
Rajputna, who, starting at even money,
romped home in a division of the Encour-
age Handicap at Ascot (Vic.) on Wed-
nesday, is a daughter of Brown Rajah.
Stock of this imported stallion have not
been much in evidence on metropolitan
courses.
Brown Rajah was trained by the late
T. D. Scott, who raced him in con-
junction with A. E. Cockram, of Perth.
He played a . rather remarkable role in
the Melbourne Cup of 1924, which Back-
wood won narrowly from Stand By and
Spearfelt. Numbers originally hoisted
by the judge gave Brown Rajah third
position. That palpable blunder was
soon corrected. Actually Brown Rajah
finished fifth, behind Lilypond, who Jack
Holt always considered should have been
“in the money.”
Shortly afterwards Brown Rajah ran
third to San Antonio and Graculus in
the Williamstown Cup. His best per-
formance was a win in the A.J.C. Waver-
ley Handicap. Tom Scott had a high
opinion of Brown Rajah, but the
“Britisher” just failed of being a good ’un.
* * * *
If importance can be attached to two-
year-old trials Frank Godby has a good
one in Portella (Portofino-Fretwork).
This chestnut put up the best time at
Caulfield on Wednesday, when Mel-
bourne youngsters were tested in 12 heats.
In dead going and against a strong head
wind, Portella covered half a mile in
52fsec., being followed home by a Porto-
fino colt from the stable of George Jones.
The dam of Portella produced Dick
Devon, who won a Heatherlie Handicap
and was fancied for the Cups a few years
ago.
E. A. Underwood, of the V.R.C. com-
mittee, who bred Portella, is rather hope-
ful of winning the Oaks with Riviera, a
filly by Portofino from Lyncombe—half-
sister to Royal Feast. Riviera was pro-
duced for the three-year-old event at
Ascot (Vic.) on Wednesday. She had
No. 20 berth. Naturally the filly used
up a lot of energy in hitting the front,
and she deserves credit for making a
dead-heat with Inspector Scott, whose
early racing was done in Sydney.
* * * *
Melbourne bookmakers are having a
bad “spin.” One Caulfield operator who
formerly wagered gamely on a straight-
out basis at Caulfield is now confiniftg
himself to doubles. At Ascot on Wedr
nesday the virtual leader of the Ring was
conspicuous by his absence and had no
reason to be regretful.
Only turn-ups at Ascot were Orange
Bitters in the Trial Hurdle at eights and
Spearwings in the Sturt Trial at 12 to> 1.
Other races went to heavily-backed
horses, one winner being supported down
to evens and another to 5 to 4.
* * * *
“Well, what do you think of the
Epsom now?” was a general query after
Saturday’s racing. While the chances of
several horses were discounted, Adios
naturally firmed. The winner of Tatt.’s
Tramway Handicap is always deserving
of respect, especially when it is a horse
likely to improve. In Mildura G. Price
has another string to his bow, and,
though Mildura was well beaten in the
Doncaster with 7.7, he has won at each
of his three starts since. At the barrier
he is somewhat touchy, and the fact that
McCarten was unlikely to be well enough
to ride him was mainly responsible for
his being a non-acceptor at Randwick
last week. However, he is in first-class
condition, and may be racing at Rose-
hill on Saturday.
Gilltown, Geebung, Cassar and Spear-
dale did not shine, the last-named really
shaping badly considering he was racing
at a scale of weights that suited him.
Bradford should have done better in
order to make his Epsom prospects
bright, and form said more for Adios
and Sedunum than any of the other run-
ners during the afternoon. There was
FOR ROSEHILL.
(By “PILOT.")
Hurdle Race: Keewong, 1 ;
Roley’s Choice, 2 ; Dubonnet, 3.
Camellia Stakes: Mildura, 1 ;
Micawber, 2 ; Delmestor, 3.
Rosehill Guineas: High Caste, 1 ;
Bonny Loch, 2 ; Reading, 3.
Rosehill Spring Handicap: Red
Sails, 1 ; Malagigi, 2 ; Pander, 3.
Hill Stakes: Royal Chief, 1 ; St.
Constant, 2 ; Gold Rod, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Tuhita-
rata, 1 ; Disalto, 2 ; Desolation, 3.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Boomerang Hurdle Race: Sweet
Lullaby, 1 ; Man of Ayr, 2 ; Whern-
side, 3.
Corroboree Maiden Handicap:
Netherlea, 1 ; Muscari, 2 ; Hectare,
3.
Moonee Valley Stakes: Pure
Gold, 1 ; Zonda 2 ; Lusson, 3.
Mount Cottrell Steeplechase:
Cape Lilock, 1 ; Nimshi, 2 ; Trent-
wood, 3.
Budgeree Handicap: Carpentier,
1 ; Bourbon, 2; Gay Prince, 3.
Nulla Nulla Welter: Romford,
1 ; Aion, 2 ; Chaldean, 3.


INVINCIBLE
since
1906.
j
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
18 Improved 1939 Models: 3 to 160 Horsepower. 1,2, 4
6, 8 and 12 cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock. Five Years
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory daily use all over the world, many of them for over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record for
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they are, size for
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world’s market to-day.
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St.; Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., U.S.A
Established in 1906,
SAVE MONEY
IT'S
Quathrifiy
TO INSTALL
' NEW
CHAMPIONS
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring
MORE SPEED
Learn a lesson from the race
drivers. They choose Champions,
the spark plugs with the
proven ability to give every
engine the strong hot sparks
that bring out its best speed,
power and fuel economy. In
racing and in every-day driv-
ing, Champions are winners!
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
m
i<|P
!!!
“Wot grip do yer use —Ferrier or Williams?"
so little between Red Thespian, Breeze,
Valhalla and Tony at the finish of the
Welter Handicap that it would be diffi-
cult to credit any of that lot with a
chance of winning. As Salazar was also
well up with them, it was not Epsom
form.
*•••••
Micawber did so well in Brisbane that
it is reasonable to believe he has im-
proved considerably since he last raced
in Sydney. If he runs at Rosehill on
Saturday he should be troublesome if he
acts up to his Queensland form. Te
Hero’s post behavior is against 'him,
and, though there are favorable reports
concerning Nightguard, it does not seem
as if certainty yet attaches to his coming
over from Melbourne. It is the same
with Tetreen. In trying for possibilities
at this stage I shall go for Micawber,
Adios and Mildura.
At least one Sydney bookmaker does
not believe in being stereotyped where
doubles are concerned. In addition to the
usual Epsom and Metropolitan double
he gives backers the opportunity of pick-
ing the Epsom and Melbourne Cup or
Metropolitan and Melbourne Cup. The
prices are not exactly tempting where
fancied horses are concerned, but in the
case of outsiders it is possible to pick
up a small fortune for £l, the odds
ranging up to 15,000 to 1. Even at
100,000 to 1 some of the combinations
would not tempt backers.
••••••
Neither Buzalong nor St. Constant
could get near the front in the early part
of the Chelmsford Stakes, while it was
scarcely to be expected L’Aiglon would
shine in a nine-furlongs race. I thought
St. Constant moved a trifle short in his
preliminary, and in order to win the
Epsom with the same weight that he
carried on Saturday he will need to do
much better in the first two or three
furlongs. Perhaps one of the longer
handicaps will give him his best chance
of«a win at the A.J.C. meeting. His
last success at Randwick was when he
gave Sedunum 41b. in the Final Handicap
last spring.
* * * *
“Darcy” Eccles hasn’t despaired of
The Trump returning to the form which
enabled him to capture the Toorak Han-
dicap, Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup
of 1937. At substantial odds Eccles has
supported the little Manfred gelding for
the forthcoming Melbourne Cup.
At the spring meetings at which he
swept everything before him The Trump
was expected to break down at any
moment. Strangely enough, he has given
his trainer, Stan Reid, hardly any trouble
since then, though the horse’s legs are,
as his owner expresses it, “as funny look-
ing as ever.”
* * * *
One of the shocks of the afternoon at
Tatt.’s meeting was the complete failure
of High Caste in the Chelmsford Stakes.
Bartle said he collided with the false rail,
and the mark showing on the colt’s off
quarter the following day suggested he
was lucky not to have sustained a nasty
injury. Even before this happened, how-
ever, High Caste was not travelling well,
His trainer, J. T. Jamieson, was not
prepared to make excuses. “High Caste’s
form was quite wrong,” he said, and
added: “It was one of those things it
is impossible to explain. He looks none
the worse for the run or his mishap, and,
if nothing unforeseen happens, he will be
a Rosehill Guineas runner on Satur-
day.”
Form in that race should give some
idea as to what extent High Caste was
affected by bad luck in the Chelmsford
Stakes, and give a sound idea as to his
Derby chance. Though, for that matter,
Guineas form has repeatedly worked out
incorrectly at Randwick. Some winners
of that race have started at odds on
for the Derby and failed, notable in-
stances being Wallace Isinglass, Caserta,
Mollison and Silver King, while Derby
winners have included unplaced runners
in the Guineas.
At Randwick on Friday morning last,
after a little chaff as to Chelmsford
Stakes possibilities, I heard F. A.
Roberts (Defaulter) accept the offer of
T. R. George (Beau Vite’s trainer) 'to
save a “fiver” with him. Immediately
Roberts accepted George said: “I’ll put
that £5 on Beau Vite and have a
bet to nothing.” His remark indicated
he thought his colt or Defaulter would
win.
That summing-up was correct, though
it is probable George was pleasantly sur-
prised to see Beau Vite make such a
good race with Defaulter. Beau Vite is
not a big fellow, but the way he handled
8.2 suggested he would not be troubled
by 8.10 against horses of his own age,
even at a mile and a half. It is not un-
usual to see little horses good weight-
carriers, their action having a lot to do
with that.
Beau Vite was beaten by Beaulivre in
the last two races in which they met in
Maoriland. Unless Beau Vite has im-
proved during his stay in Sydney Beau-
livre must be particularly good. George,
who has a big team in Wellington, was
expected to return to Maoriland at
the close of the A.J.C. meeting, but it
is safe to say he will accompany Beau
Vite south if that colt wins the Rand-
wick classic. In any case, Beau Vite is
going to Melbourne. He is not in any-
thing at Rosehill next Saturday, but will
probably be given one more race before
running in the A.J.C. Derby.
Peerless, another of George’s charges,
has not gone on as well as he could wish
since she has been in Sydney, and is
being sent back to Maoriland this
week. She may be just short of best
w.f.a. form, and in handicaps there was
no disposition on the part of Australian
handicappers to underrate her.
In Melbourne last season the belief
was general that Wilson would develop
into a stayer. His win in a seven-fur-
longs race at Flemington with 9.2 went
towards confirming that idea, which was
further upheld by his running in the
Chelmsford Stakes. A pronounced last
soon after the start, he finished fifth,
less than a length behind Reading, and
not more than three lengths from the
winner. Wilson had a pull in weight
over Beau Vite, Reading and High Caste,
as they each carried 71b. penalty, but
still the performance was one that said
a lot for him as a potential stayer. Inci-
dentally, F. Musgrave said the fact of
Wilson finishing reasonably close to De-
faulter disposed of any likelihood of the
latter beating Ajax when they met in
the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes.
• ••*•*
Backers who took Reading as the first
leg of Caulfield and Melbourne Cup
doubles have no cause now to be on
good terms with themselves. He did
better in the Chelmsford Stakes than
in the Hobartville Stakes, but there is
so little room for improvement in his
condition that Melbourne is unlikely to
see him much better than now. Unless
he should make a good bid for the Rose-
hill Guineas, his double backers will
commence to regard their money as lost.
Tel Asur, who is in the Rosehill Guineas,
will also need to do much better in that
than in his most recent race in Sydney
to be seriously considered for the Caul-
field Cup.
Malagigi’s showing in Tatt.’s Spring
Handicap unpleasantly surprised his con-
nections. Slow to get going, a sharp
run from the half-mile took him up
fourth at the home turn. He looked like
coming on, but, losing ground in the
run home, finished sixth. The books are
not prepared to take any risk with him
because of his failure, and, form to the
contrary, still have him higher in the
Metropolitan list than Respirator.
The A.J.C. handicapper is one who,
on his own figures, would not agree with
that idea. In the Spring Handicap last
week he gave Respirator 9st. to Mala-
gigi’s 8.8. In the Metropolitan the latter
is conceding his stable-companion 21b.
Of the two 1 would sooner stand Respira-
tor, but the betting market is against me
on that score. Respirator has a nasty
knack of hanging in the Sydney way
round, and that may lead to his being
reserved for the Caulfield Cup. Still,
there is the possibility of his next run
or two altering intentions on that score.
The Metropolitan is worth winning.
J. Holt expected a great deal of Nuf-
field last year, but, though that colt won
the A.J.C. Derby, Caulfield Guineas and
Victoria Derby, his form in the Mel-
bourne Cup, for which he was second
favorite, fell far short of expectations.
This year Holt is looking to Hall Mark’s
brother Pure Gold to add to his repu-
tation as a trainer of Cup winners. The
Caulfield Cup, however, is Pure Gold’s
objective, though if he can win that the
double might not be beyond him. In
the Caulfield Cup he has 6.9 and the
Melbourne Cup 6.11. At most he could
be penalised 101 b. for a Caulfield Cup win,
and as that would take him only up to
7.7 he would be left with a fair chance
of equalling Poseidon’s two Cups double
at three years. As Holt has won the
Caulfield Cup more than once, he should
be able to gauge exactly what is wanted
for success in that race. Even then, there
is the uncertainty of the horse doing its
part.
* * * *
Early this year Jack Higgins was to
have left Calcutta for Sydney to take up
the position of chairman of A.J.C. stipen-
diary stewards. Serious illness caused an
alteration of plans almost at the last
moment, and Higgins went to France
for treatment. It was thought he might
escape an operation, but he had to under-
go one in Paris, with the celebrated Dr.
Jean Charrier as surgeon and the equally
prominent Dr. Rene Gutman as physi-
cian. Both are at the top of their pro-
. fession in Europe.
• •••••
Writing from Nice on August 1, Hig-
gins said he had been in a nursing home


Clean your
FALSE TEETH
THIS WAY
say Dentists
ĵ
j
'Steradent’ cleans false
, teeth without brushing.
Dentists have subjected it
to severe clinical tests. They
say that it’s by far the best
way to clean and purify
false teeth and dental plates.
Fill the cap of the tin with
'Steradent’ and pour the
powder into a glass contain-
ing sufficient warm water
(not hot) to cover the den-
tures. Stir well. Leave your
false teeth, plates and
bridges in it while you dress or overnight.
Simply rinse and your teeth and plates are fresh
and clean—clean where the brush can’t reach.
'Steradent’ cleans away all stains and film.
Makes dull teeth and gums look like new. Makes
them fresh, cool and comfortable. 'Steradent’ is
the discovery of Dr. L. W. Sherwin, authority on
oral hygiene. “I am recommending ‘Steradent’
strongly to all my patientswrites a dentist.
Price 2/-. Double size 3/6. Sold by all chemists.
IMPORTANT. Be sure you get 'Steradent'.
Dentists recommend it.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LIMITED
(Pharmaceutical Dept.), SYDNEY
Steradent
cleans and sterilizes false teeth
BRANDAUER’S
P*
:
GC.V
fPENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BRAUDADKK * CO„ LwL. aiRMISQHAM. ENO
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
IAOiSRL BIBUY, junions Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff oj the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
ĵ
No. 44—COOEY MODEL 39,
.22 calibre, bolt action, single
shot, for short, long or long-rifle.
Walnut stock; safety feature,
20in. barrel. Weight, 41b.
Elevating rear £l/10/-
sight ' '
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 376.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD
S.S. RIFLE, MODEL 83, 22-cal.,
bolt action, 24in. round barrel,
gold bead front and ladder rear
sight; weight, about _ 0 . .
51b £2/7/6
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action,
.22 calibre, rim-fire, 2 7in.
round blued steel barrel;
ladder rear
weight, 4 Jib
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
■lt': £2/10/-
No. 32 BROWNING
“TROMBONE” HAM-
MERLESS REPEATING
RIFLE, 22in. round steel
barrel; handles 22 short,
long or long-rifle cart-
ridges; screw r -\r and
open front sights;
length overall, 39in.;
weight over-
all, 4ilb . . . £5/12/6
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
WE
No. 3—HOLLIS’ "THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G., top lever bar
action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke,
rebounding' locks, crossbolt, snap fore-
end, half-pistol grip, walnut
stock
Carriage Paid.
£l6/16/-
No. 27—8.5. A. D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
SHOT GUN, Wildfowling Model, 12G.,
30in. barrels, both choke; nitro-
proof automatic safety chambered for
3in. cartridges;
81b.
weight,
£2l/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 —FABRIQUE NATION ALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip,
nitro proof; weight, about 71b.
£ll/11/
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 A—FABRIQUE NATION ALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
similar to No. 14, but very high-grade,
with ejector;
about 71b. .. .
weight,
£l3/13/
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKE7, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
six weeks, but, though still weak, he was
making progress towards complete re-
covery, and hoped to be in Sydney to-
wards the end of the year. He was
reckoning without the war. Touching
on racing, he wrote: —-
Although I saw Pharis win the Grand
Prix from an elevated position outside .
Longchamps, my health prevented me from
witnessing much racing in France. Conse-
quently I am not qualified to offer an
opinion regarding French form, but I
was very impressed with the manner in
which Pharis beat his opponents in the
Grand Prix, and I shall be very surprised
if he does not prove himself to be a colt
of real class.
Johnstone, who is well up in the winning
list, appeared to be riding as well as ever,
showing plenty of dash and judgment.
Though their style of riding may differ
somewhat from some English and Aus-
tralian jockeys, there are nevertheless some
really good riders in France. I was par-
ticularly impressed with Semblat, who rides
with great judgment.
* * * *
A filly in a Derby field at Randwick
or Flemington is now unusual. It was
not always so. The place-getters in the
1876 Victoria Derby were the fillies
Briseis, Queen’s Head and Sybil, in that
order, there being six colts behind them.
Briseis subsequently won the Melbourne
Cup from Sybil.
At that meeting the three-year-olds
outclassed the older horses in the longer
w.f.a. races. The Essendon Stakes, then
decided at two miles and now run at
the autumn meeting, was open to horses
of three and upwards. There were eight
runners, none of over three, and Aconite
won. Other three-year-olds successful
were Tocal in the Royal Park Stakes,
two miles, and Calamia in the Canterbury
Plate, 2\ miles.
The following year the Essendon
Stakes and Canterbury Plate were again
won by three-year-olds, while Chester
and Savanaka, also of that age, were
first and second respectively in the Mel-
bourne Cup. There were eight three-
year-old runners. Results suggest that
in those days they were comparatively
better stayers than those of four or over.
* * * *
Occasionally form at mid-week meet-
ings in Sydney has some bearing on
good races at more important fixtures.
At Rosebery last week the only wins that
counted were those of Delmestor and
Tuhitarata. Both are iji first-class con-
dition, but still improvement in each,
as a result of last week’s run, is possible.
Few horses racing in Sydney have made
greater improvement than Delmestor dur-
ing the past year. She is now only five,
and her last season’s wins included the
Carrington Stakes, i.n which she had 8.13
to the 8.2 of Early Bird, who ran second.
The latter has been withdrawn from the
Epsom, in which she had 8.12, but Del-
mestor, with 8.7, is a first acceptor. The
chances are, though, that she is better
suited by six or seven furlongs than a
mile.
An occasional visitor to Randwick
racecourse in the mornings is J. Egan,
who rode Highborn when that horse was
second to Carbine in the 1890 Melbourne
Cup. Egan will not have it that Carbine
won as easily as supposed. He reckons
he was hard at it over the last quarter-
mile. Newspaper reports of the race do
not confirm that idea. Although Car-
bine carried 10.5 to Highborn’s 6.8, the
handicapper revised his ideas in the fol-
lowing Cup, as while he gave the former
10.12 he sent Highborn up to 9.1.
* * * *
Defaulter’s owner, H. D. Greenwood,
went on a world tour after the autumn
meeting at Randwick. Before the start
of the war he was hopeful of getting
back to Sydney about October 2 or 3.
That meant missing the Colin Stephen
Stakes on the opening day, but now
he will probably be pleased if he re-
turns to Australia in time to see De-
faulter attempting to win the Melbourne
Cup.
* * * *
Beaten runners in Tatt.’s Hurdle Race
likely to improve are Spearbine and Syn-
tax. The latter, though he ran fairly,
does not yet look at his best. Keewong’s
condition did not look as if it could be
improved. In the straight he was acci-
dentally interfered with by Legionilla,
but though, if he had run second, a pro-
test might haye been entered, it is im-
probable it would have been upheld.
Dubonnet does not stay well, and Extra
Mount is far from being as good as
earlier in his career.
* * * *
Miss “Lorna Doone” is out of luck.
Her colt, Marengo, had a nasty fall at
G. Price’s stables on Sunday. He was
injured and will have to be on the easy
list for some days, which may dispose of
his chance of running in the Derby. A
win in that may have been beyond him,
but, as he was giving promise as a stayer,
a minor place may ‘have been possible.
Miss “Lorna Doone” is racing Marengo
on lease.
* # * *
Early betting on this year’s Epsom
Handicap has been of the lightest. It
has been possible to back Epsom and
Metropolitan doubles for large amounts,
but the books have fought shy of straight-
out business on the mile race.
• •••••
Proof of this rests in the fact that a
commissioner entrusted to back a Vic-
torian horse for £5OOO less than a fort-
night ago was unable to get set for even
a portion of the amount required. He
was prepared to take as little as 15 to 1,
which was not an unduly liberal price,
but could not get an offer.
• • • • • i
Perhaps the owner was fortunate, as
the horse in question did not run nearly
as well as anticipated in a race in which
he started the day following the attempt
to back him.
The market has improved as a result
of Saturday’s racing at Randwick, but
it still looks as if the Epsom will be a
comparatively light betting race.
Entries for weight-fcr-age races at im-
portant meetings are always of interest.
They often give an idea of what owners
and trainers think of the chances of their
horses in the principal handicaps.
Backers of Adios for the Epsom were
pleased to note. that he was a Craven
Plate entrant, and those who had risked
him as the second leg of the double were
gratified by his inclusion in the Rand-
wick Plate.
It showed that G. Price had belief in
him as a stayer, and, if Adios has any
chance of success in the Randwick Plate
with 9st., he should be a danger in the
Metropolitan with 8.2.
• • • • » 4
The same applies to Gilltown, who has
only 7.9 in the Metropolitan, while Femi-
nist will run in that race with 121 b. less
than in the Randwick Plate.
Anpapejo and Buzzal seem out of
place in the Colin Stephen Stakes. It
is improbable either the owner or trainer
of Anpapejo seriously believes he has
any chance of success, and perhaps the
idea is that the race will give him a sound
winding-up run for the Metropolitan.
Buzzal’s owner, however, must have a
deal of faith in him as a stayer, as he
has also nominated him for the Rand-
wick Plate. Racegoers are accustomed
to surprises, but a w.f.a. win by Buzzal
would be something quite out of the
ordinary.
There may be breeders—the Aga Khan,
for instance —who have a greater number
of mares at different studs they own, but
it would probably be safe to bet that no
breeder in the world has more at one
stud than P. Miller has at Kia-Ora, near
Scone.
This season he is mating 205 mares of
his own, and, in addition, 40 outside
mares are visiting his stallions, of which
there are eight Pantheon, Medieval
Knight, Constant Son, Piccadilly, Christo-
pher Robin, Midstream, Double Remove
and Young Idea.
Miller has sent some big drafts
to the autumn sales at Randwick, but his
1942 contribution promises to put any-
thing of the past in the shade.
Foalings were numerous at Kia-Ora
last month, and those of note included
colts by Midstream from Loquacious
(dam of Feminist), Kilkenny Lass and
Ranier, a colt by Double Remove from
Air Lady (dam of Contact), and a colt
by Pantheon from Atalanta. Anyone
breeding on such a large scale as
Miller certainly requires a big return at
the yearling sales to give a reasonable
profit on his operations.
* * * *
According to an American exchange
a jockey who went out with a battery
had a peculiar and rather disconcerting
experience at a meeting in that country.
During a race he leaned over to grab
at another jockey and in so doing dis-
arranged the battery he was carrying.
The outcome was when he later
attempted to “buzz” the horse he buzzed
himself. The story is not quite com-
plete, as it does not say whether the
jockey came on without his mount.
* * * *
After the Massachusetts Supreme
Court ruled that horse and dog tracks
had been computing breakages (“frac-
tions” we call them in Australia)
erroneously a bill was filed in the Legis-
lature to compel the tracks to turn over
about £A250,000 to the State for use
as old-age pensions. The member who
introduced the measure said oracularly:
“Let racing promoters give back to the
people the breakage they have wrong-
fully withheld from them by giving it
to the State for old age.” In reply it
was pointed out that half the incorrect
breakage had gone to the State since
1935.
* * * *
First acceptors for the Metropolitan
include three horses with over 9st. —
Royal Chief 9.9, Mosaic 9.2 and St. Con-
stant 9.2.
The Epsom has been a good race for
horses with more than Bst. In the last
20 years 19 horses with weights ranging
from 8.1 to 9.8 have finished first, though
one, Gay Lover, was disqualified.
• •••••
It has been the reverse with the Metro-
politan. Since the distance was made a
mile and five furlongs there have been
only five winners with more than 8.7,
these being Speciality 9.0, Star Stranger
8.9, Loquacious 8.11, Oro 8.9 (won on
protest) and Royal Chief 8.13.
Of course, there is always the possi-
bility of exceptions, but in racing, as in
many other things, it pays to be guided
to some extent by past results, and the
following table, showing how horses with
9st. or over have fared in the Metropoli-
tan, at its present distance, is infor-
mative :
Result.
1920 — Kennaquhair, 10.0 .. .. Unplaced
Lingle, 9.0 .. ' .. .. Unplaced
1921 — Salitros, 9.4 Unplaced
Fairy Bob, 9.0 .. .. Unplaced
1922 — Speciality, 9.0 .. .. First
Syce Knight, 9.3 .. .. Unplaced
Furious, 9.0 Unplaced
1923 David, 9.13 .. .. .. Second
The Cypher, 9.3 .. .. Unplaced
Rapine, 9.3 Unplaced
Rivoli, 9.2 .. .. .. Unplaced
1924 — David, 9.8 Second
Purser, 9.7 Unplaced
1925 Polycletan, 9.0 .. .. Third
1926 Pantheon, 9.6 .. .. Second
Spearfelt, 9.4.. .. .. Unplaced
Fuji San, 9.3 Unplaced
Count Cavour, 9.0 .. .. Unplaced
1927 — Limerick, 9.5 .. .. . . Second
Amounis, 9.3 .. .. Unplaced
1928 — No runner with 9.0
1929 Nightmarch, 9.12 .. .. Second
1930 — Donald, 9.8 .. .. .. Unplaced
Concentrate, 9.3 .. . . Unplaced
1931 — Chide, 9.4 .. .. .. Unplaced
Veilmond, 9.3 .. .. Unplaced
1932 — Veilmond, 10.1 .. .. Unplaced
Historic, 9.6 Unplaced
Chide, 9.6 .. .. .. Unplaced
1933 Rogilla, 9.8 .. .. .. Unplaced
1934 — No runner , with 9.0
1935 — Berestoi, 9.0 .. .. .. Unplaced
1936 — Lough Neagh, 9.2 .. .. Third
Oro, 9.1 Unplaced
1937 No runner with 9.0
1938 Gold Rod, 9.0 .. .. Unplaced
M.Q. and Rafferty
The Alabama Kid is still knocking
round Australia, together with several
tons of gentlemen who go through the
motions of modem “wrestling,” 100-per-
cent. Americans all. The appallingly ill-
matched Jack Wilson was served up to
the black at West Melbourne a week ago,
and was the lighter by 31b., the Kid giving
his weight as 12.2|. Wilson, a splendidly
game fellow, took his punishment stoi-
cally, and rocked the stronger and more
experienced man in the seventh with a left
hook ; but he was getting such a hammer-
ing in the eleventh that the referee inter-


f it* „«
lit#- r
For
s #
J»l»
#l«r
jgg
5
aY F»* se '
Tr» e or eta u
. is a * h ,* n ?„ f SAFE
Tr» e ,*«*«««**
e..< - grs?S£"iT.^"
more or jess j ?' j[ c ars
l„,s for s r “”‘ " of another
mu!- **?s, j. a ‘‘Kor s£ oi .j c ars
ysjs—*
? No
. on this
, scores aga i: n \° Paral-
Pcntiac sc° it has Unh y con -
point. steering. ce . r ods 0
lelogram with , n • there-
t rolled. steering: »• • ay by
equal d m any othe r
air^fs“4ls 3
s«»r Bk *“ a -“S»o si «’€ :
cDefids* ’X nan *° e _ feat-h®**
too, steering it h its rn ing
.it- Pontiac. small iu , e
•K&fiS-
IT
siMff
a ft 013 ** its
§ ~- .*»■" fc "
»**»** r * **
For thousands after thousands of
miles Pontiac engine sings smoothly
without a single discordant note.
Engineers know why. They’ll ex-
plain the advantages of Pontiac’s
short-stroke design in which there is
less piston travel per mile and con-
sequently less wear on pistons and
cylinder walls. They’ll approve
Pontiac’s use of cast iron pistons
which enable the engine to retain its
compression and youthful per-
formance. They’ll be keen on the
fact that in a Pontiac each cylinder
is completely surrounded by water
safeguarding it against warping.
Similarly, they’ll point out that
(unlike most cars in its price-class)
Pontiac’s full pressure lubrication
is carried right through the engine
even to the hard worked piston pins.
With such features as these, along
with crankcase ventilation, gusher
valve cooling, the vibration
dampening Harmonic Balancer,
etc., it is easy to understand why
Pontiac is such a notably long
lived car. If you want to know
just how satisfactory a motor-
car investment can be, come in.
See and drive a Pontiac for yourself.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LTD.
Vewtiae
The Most Trouble-free Car in the World
‘AIR CHIEF’ CAR RADIO—A model specially designed fot
Pontiac is included in the range at prices from Fifteen
Guineas. Ask for a demonstration. You will be pleased with
the excellent radio reception given by 'AIR CHIEF.
Use the Convenient, Confidential G.M.A.C. Payment Plan
Buy from your Local Pontiac Dealer
Sold and Serviced by Pontiac Dealers throughout Anstralia
posed with a veto. It was announced
that Wilson had “done ’ees ’and” in the
third. He should give up the game
before it gives him up.
* * * *
Westbury, Newcastle’s “successor to
Darcy,” has had his ring reputation
dimmed a bit, having been outpointed
by Purcell. Purcell is an in-and-out
boxer, very good at times, but far from
world-champion class. Since he returned
from England he has been beaten on
several occasions. In England he started
well by getting a decision over Jake Kil-
rain. This doesn’t mean that he was
matched with an old-aged pensioner, for
the Jake he whipped is no connection or
even compatriot of the Jake who fought
John L. Sullivan and was part-inspirer
of a ballad, balladry being then an essen-
tial part of boxing and racing.
Oh, Sullivan and Kilrain
Are going to fight again.
Sullivan is the best man of the two.
There were about 79 verses, but three
lines should be sufficient. Afterwards
Purcell fought the English welter cham-
pion, Roderick, and lost.
Now Ern Clingan is being talked of in
Sydney as “another Darcy.” Stepping
out of the walterweight class with an un-
beaten record among third- and second-
raters, he took on a middleweight, Dan
Sullivan, at Carlton (Sydney) last Wed-
nesday, had his man down several times,
and would have finished him off in the
tenth if Joe Wallis hadn’t rendered the
coup de grace unnecessary. Clingan is
a well-built young fellow —streamlined, as
it were —and a powerful puncher. He
has been brought along in the right way.
and if he continues to be well “placed”—
as the racing men say—and is not sacri-
ficed in lamentable matches with negroes,
as other promising young pugs have been
—in more than one case with lasting ill-
effects —he may go far.
Footbrawl
Is St. Kilda going to win a V.F.L.
premiership pennant at last? Nobody
thought so at the beginning of the
season ; but scores of thousands are say-
ing it now. In the first semi-final on the
Melbourne C.G. the reorganised Saints
played magnificently.
Speed has been the basis of St. Kilda s
success this season. On Saturday it was
faster than Richmond and equally tough.
And its shooting for goal was superior—
of 22 efforts that brought points, 10
raised both flags. Richmond, beaten
time and again for possession, had only
12 point-scoring efforts, half of them
goals—lo.l2 to 6.6.
The Saints now can rest for a Satur-
day. Then they meet the loser of the
Melbourne-Collingwood match in a “pre-
liminary final.” It has been a long season
but it has never lacked interest.
* * * *
“Sturt”: About the finest football
point on record has been raised —success-
fully—in Adelaide. Under Australian
rules, with 18 a side, a nineteenth man
has to be named beforehand, and can
come in as substitute when a man is in-
jured (a man going off cannot return).
In a junior match one of the XVIII
failed to appear on the ground. His
team played without him for some time,
and then gave him up and called in their
nineteenth. Then he arrived, became (as
his side supposed) automatically nine-
teenth man, and as such took the place
of a man hurt. A protest by the other
side was dismissed by the local associa-
tion and, taken to the S.A. Junior Union,
it was again thrown out. Finally it was
carried to the S.A. League, whose chair-
man, O’Halloran, K.C., has ruled that
there cannot be two nineteenth men, and
that by naming one and using another the
side lost the match.
i;: # * *
University won the Sydney Rugby
Union premiership in 1937, was last in
1938 and started badly this year. But
excellent football took the,team into the
semi-finals, and next Saturday the
Students meet Randwick in the “grand ’
final. Back and forward they’ve settled
down into a nicely-balanced combina-
tion, and combination gave them victory
over Gordon in the final.
Gordon had collected the minor pre-
miership because of the vigor of a hard-
rucking set of forwards. At North
Sydney on Saturday they relied again on
bullocking tactics. But ’Varsity matched
the Highlanders for toughness in the
pigs, and its three-quarters were superior
in speed and direction. They drove
straight ahead. The Gordon backs when
the ball as often as not lost any
advantage by shilly-shallying and cross-
field running.
The forward encounter was torrid.
Fists flew, and one man on each side
got his marching orders a few minutes
before the final bell. Uni. scored two
tries, one in each half, and both were
converted. That was the only scoring
10 points to nil. The first try was worth
seeing. From a set scrum Walsh, the
half, got the ball; he went ahead,
feigned to pass, then ran round one man,
inside a couple of others and dived past
the full-back near the posts. A decidedly
clever piece of work.
* * * *
The Soccer, Union Rugby and League
Rugby people cancelled all their fixtures.
The League team from Maoriland played
one match, against St. Helens (it won,
19-3), and received £250 as its share of
the gate. But it cost £5OOO or £6OOO to
transport the party and minister to its
requirements in the way of nourishment
and liquid refreshment, which touring
footballers need in large quantities (beer
is the recognised treatment for a leather-
chaser “sick for home,” as the poet ex-
presses it), and the loss will have to be
borne by the North of England football
interest. Any misguided attempt to
shoulder it would crush the Maoriland
League organisation. Not that any such
self-sacrifice is likely to be proposed.
Maoriland League Rugby is by no means
exempt from the stern Caledonian tradi-
tions of economy which have done so
much to make the sister-Dominion what
it is—or what it was until Mr. Savage
came along.
The Australian Rugby Union team did
not have the melancholy satisfaction of
playing even one match. Both touring
sides were ordered to hold themselves in
readiness to leave for home as soon as
passenger accommodation could be pro-
vided. Shipboard photographs of the
Union men suggest that Stone, the
hooker, and Hodgson, the forward, will
return qualified for admission to the
Grunters and Groaners’ Union (“nothing
under 16st.”).
The Sydney competition having been
disposed of, there is little interest in the
Rugby League State “championship.”
Only about 5000 turned up at the S.C.G.
to see North Sydney battle its way to the
semi-finals by outing St. George 27-24.
When Harrison, the five-eighth, who had
been chopping chunks out of the St. G.
defence, had a leg damaged and there-
after limped around at outside centre,
the Dragons hopped in and established
a 24-18 lead, but N.S. settled the issue
with three quick tries.
Newtown also got into the semi-finals
by beating Newcastle Western Suburbs
23-15. There was a great deal of mis-
handling and little teamwork. Some
good individual bursts occasionally
livened an otherwise dull affair. M.
Whale scored a fine try for Newtown,
and team-mates Hodgins and Phillips
each showed a clean pair of heels twice
to pursuers.
South Sydney w#s in good form to beat
Central Newcastle 21-9. Prigg, the State
captain, tried manfully to stop the rot,
but, except for Kerr, Firth and Denton,
he lacked solid support.
Fourth of the semi-finalists is Canter-
bury-Bankstown, which came again in
the last few minutes to snatch Sunday’s
match at Wollongong from Group Seven,
13-7. So the State “championship” will
be fought for now by Sydney teams only.
* * * *
Goodyear, leading in the N. S. Wales
Soccer League competition with 15 wins
and four losses, went up against Glades-
ville-Ryde at the other end of the list
with three wins and 15 losses. The
tyremakers attacked almost incessantly,
but all their efforts were deflated on
the spiky resistance of Walker, the
G.-R. custodian; and they called it a
day for a scoreless draw. Wallsend, now
only two points behind Goodyear, had
to fight all the way against the less experi-
enced Cessnock, and scrambled home 2-1.
Metters, sharing third place with Weston,
a point away, stunned the Newcastle
eleven with short-passing to hoist
eight goals to two ; by a similar margin
Leichhardt hammered Granville, George
Smith finding the net six times. Weston
gave a high-class display in beating
Woonona-Bulli 7-3 ; and the fast-finish-
ing St. George walloped Adamstown 4-1.
Racquet and Bawl
“Deuce”: Several similar features
marked the winning of the Davis Cup
from America in 1914 and 1939. Then,
as in this year, the challenge round was
played while guns across the Atlantic
were blazing the overture to a European
w'ar. As in T 4, two only of this year s
Australian team carried the burden of
both doubles and singles. Dunlop and
Doust sat on the sidelines then, as Craw-
ford and Hopman did this month. Also,
in both ties the result hinged on the
doubles, in both of which the Yanks
were ironed out flat.
In the match a quarter of a century
back Maurice McLoughlin settled both
Wilding and Brookes ; the latter, though
beaten in straight sets, took the American
to 17-15 in one of them and set a record
for Cup play. Williams, No. 2, fell to
our fellows easily. The dominant posi-
tion Australasia held in big tennis at
that time is illustrated by the fact that
the T 4 tie gave the southern continent
its sixth win, to the U.K.’s five and
U.S.A.’s four.
One feature, though, is dissimilar.
The bauble gained, Brookes, Wilding
and co. v/ent off to the wars. As a re-
sult of official and newspaper agitation
the present team was granted permission
to stay for the U.S. national singles. In
1914 war was thought more important
than tennis.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn —it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
y* w Y rrx:
j
ifl.ll
f 9Bi
NICK LUCAS, the Singing Troubadour
ami World Famous Guitarist.
NEW OVERSEA VARIETY STARS.
GEORGE ROBEY,
The Prime Minister of Mirth
And His All Star Company.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £28,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,200,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Switzerland.”
Though its particular niche in the arts
is open to argument, ice-skating is a skil-
ful and beautiful business and sometimes
lovely enough to be as unreal as ballet.
Its right and proper place is on a paddock
of ice where action and speed are un-
limited, but some enterprising concern
has seen fit to let it usurp the legit, stage
for a time.
Anyway, they’ve frozen the boards at
Sydney Royal, and thereon they’re freez-
ing the hearts of legit, theatre addicts
with revue, vaudeville and a measure of
smuttiness; freezing the nervous with
gyrations and contortions unknown to
aeronautical science; and freezing the
shirt-fronts of those close enough to the
stage to collect the showers of ice that
Mr. Phil Taylor or some less gifted
acrobat sends across the footlights.
Mr. Taylor, we are told, taught the
Duke of Windsor, Sir Samuel Hoare and
Anthony Eden to skate, and after seeing
him in action the only thing that seems
incredible is that Mr. Hoare and Mr. Eden
should bother themselves with politics.
Mr. Taylor skates on stilts 22in. high,
leaps over tables, through paper hoops,
jumps five or six barrels and sundry
chairs and human beings—and all with
amazing grace and skill and all on a slab
of ice about 30ft. by 40ft.
At the Royal last Saturday night they
split the bill into three acts, sandwiching
a stretch of vaudeville between two help-
ings of ice. On the frozen stuff the ladies
were remarkably easy to watch. The
MacKinnon sisters glided about on their
knife-edges and twisted and turned and
spun with almost unbelievable grace and
agility, Elsie Heathcote and Rita Bramley
doing likewise, and a redhead by name
of Doreen Parr throwing in some skat-
ing eccentricities. Ronald Priestley, Ray
Caldicott and Eric Gerrard made up a
male cast that was clever, but which
would have been seen to better advan-
tage on more roomy fields.
Eddie Marcel, a comedian of doubt-
ful calibre, punctuated the show with an-
nouncements and explanations of doubt-
ful humor and with definitely humorous
skating. Tommy Russell and Ernie Mar-
coni played violin and accordion with
some amusing effect, and Connie Graham
and Hall Scott were sometimes funny,
sometimes too “broad” and sometimes
entertaining.
Altogether a bright and, occasionally,
arresting show, though one which would
have been much better had it been cut
by an hour by the omission of vaudeville
and other lines and gags that are two-
pence a dozen in ordinary musicomedy
revue.
“A Kiss from Kiki.”
If Sydney Minerva had put on its
vaudeville numbers after “A Kiss from
Kiki” instead of before it, the audience
might have gone home better satisfied.
Roy Fox and his band, the very
Irish tenor and the lively “Mexican trou-
badour” Joaquim Garay were all excel-
lent ; the farce after them was like weak
tea after cocktails.
Barrett Lennard, doing an erring hus-
band much as he did the Wodehouse Ass
a few weeks ago, put some life into the
piece, but no one else had anything much
to offer. Even Frank Bradley was off
form, failing to make his elderly spiritual-
ist either convincing or convincingly im-
possible. Joy Howarth stood around and
looked blonde, and Aileen Britton and
Sylvia Parish presented competent, but
not very animated, wives.
As the very lightest of French farce—-
all about two husbands who sneak off for
week-ends to Paris under the pretence
that they’re going up in a balloon —“A
Kiss from Kiki” bubbles along pleasantly
enough. It hasn’t a spark of wit —not a
gag worth quoting—but it’s a good-
humored item, and Lennard, with some
assistance from John Dobbie and Harry
Abdy, saves it from sagging.
“Under Your Hat.”
This latest solace to the nation, which
J.C.W. presented to a packed house at
His Majesty’s, Melbourne, on Saturday,
recalls the decline or fall or change in
musicomedy standards which occurred
during the 1914-18 period when entre-
preneurs, seized with the belief that a
war-time public could not rise to the
intellectual effort demanded by the
romantic musical comedy, confected
revue as more easv of digestion.
Written by Melburnian Archie Men-
zies, in collaboration with Jack Hulbert
AT SYDNEY REGENT.
Jean Arthur, Cary Grant and Thomas
Mitchell turning cold land wingless )
shoulders on Richard Barthelmess in
“Only Angels Have Wings.”
and another, it’s all about a young Eng-
lish fillum star who falls in love with a
fascinating Russian woman and is in-
vited by the British Secret Service to assist
in tne detection of a gang of foreign
spies who have pinched a new carbur-
retor for aeroplanes. It transpires that
the fascinating Russian is an important
part of the spy system, and fillum
star pursues her to France, his wife fol-
lowing, and carburettor, concealed in
a box of chocolates, making farcical ap-
pearances in a variety of compromising
situations.
Leading man Edwin Styles is a long,
rather ingratiating comedian, and leading
lady Marjorie Gordon is a cheerful
clowness. Gerald McErlean is a dancer
of real grace and merit who introduces a
pleasing rhythmical note into the general
angularity of the proceedings. Valerie,
another nimble stepper, sings and dances
with the Rhythm Boys—three young men
in art-tone sweaters who sing in toneless
voices with that dullness and lack of
accent for which rhythm boys are
famous.
“Belshazzar’s Feast’*
William Walton’s stupendous musical
burst came up once more for consump-
tion and digestion by an immense crowd
at the Melbourne Town Hall last week.
It was served by the same corps of culi-
nary experts last year. On that occasion
the barbaric choruses, alternating with
passages of lyric beauty, staggered the
audience, and there was tumultuous ap-
plause at the conclusion. This year the
appreciation was deep, but, not being
taken so much by surprise, the audience
kept its head and its seat, and merely ex-
pressed itself in prolonged demands for
the recall of conductor Malcolm Sargent.
If there was more to be got out of the
story of the Babylonish dictator’s decline
and fall than was brought out on the first
occasion, that alert gentleman did it.
Some of the entrances of the chorus —
prepared for the ordeal by choirmaster
Dan Hardy —blazed like explosions, and
the sonorous singing of baritone Ray-
mond Beatty, being unaccompanied,
sounded extraordinarily thrilling, both
when it was musical and when it was
purely declamatory, as in “This was the
writing that was written.” The orchestra,
supplemented by trumpeters stationed in
the galleries, and with percussion, tym-
pani and goodness knows what else aug-
mented to me limit, was never better con-
trolled or more energetic.
Luizzi Benefit.
Marjorie Lawrence’s generous gesture
of a complimentary concert to her
assistant, Alfredo Luizzi, produced a
huge house at Melbourne Town Hall
last week. The Melbourne baritone was
in fine form, and his popularity with his
audience was on a par with Miss Law-
rence’s. Judy Amadio, daughter of the
great John Amadio, fluted admirably,
and a new infant prodigy from Adelaide,
Allison Nelson, played the piano with
a deftness beyond her dozen years.
Twenty Melbourne Painters .
There is a significant change in the
arrangement of the pictures at the twenty-
first exhibition of the Twenty Melbourne
Painters at the Athenaeum. Formerly
the Twenty were so timorous as to how
their public would receive the efforts of
fire-eaters of modernist persuasion that
these were clustered in a group at the
end of the gallery. Hence they became
a cockshy for the irreverent.
Being hung cheek-by-jowl with the
more academic exponents of beauty, they
don’t look half as strange as they did
when they were all hung together. Some
of the monochrome bush studies of
Arnold Shore, for instance, look much
more natural than the photographic
realism of at least two other exhibitors,
and more vital into the bargain.
There is much more of the character of
the scene in W. Frater’s “Horses” than
there is in the landscapes from other
brushes, yet the same so-called modern-
ist’s portraits, “Diana” and “Moira,” look
much more like conventional illustrations
than the portraits of J. Hennessy, who
paints in the orthodox manner.
A topical picture is “Unprepared,” in
which Edgar Finlay has depicted a
bomber releasing an aerial torpedo on a
street of houses ; and, by way of contrast,
the veteran Rupert Bunny goes back to
Greek mythology with his “Narcissus and
Echo.” There is more body in the land-
scapes of Alma Figuerola.
“Wuthering Heights.”
Merle Oberon, Laurence Olivier.
There’s likely to be a hatching soon
if this brooding goes on much longer at
Sydney Century. “Dark Victory” brooded
there for seven weeks, and now this fine
picturisation of Emily Bronte’s novel
catches and deepens the gloom.
It’s a grim, almost fierce piece filled
in with wild moors and crags and gloomy
stone houses and dominated by Olivier
as Heathcliff. He is capable of recording
some depth of feeling, and he makes of
the character a rugged and savage but
comprehensible figure. Merle Oberon’s
Cathy seems a little diluted against the
intensity of his performance, but hers is
a fairly keen portrayal and, in the main,
credible.
David Niven keeps Edgar Linton in
suitable restraint, and Geraldine Fitz-
gerald as Isabella Linton, the girl Heath-
cliff married to revenge himself on Cathy,
faithfully depicts the torment of living
with him.
“Only Angels Have Wings.”
Jean Arthur, Cary Grant, Thomas Mitchell.
A crazy air service with its base in an
almost inaccessible spot at the foot of
the Andes and with continuously adverse
flying conditions is the staple of this
main current item at Sydney Regent.
Miss Arthur leaves her boat to explore
a small South American port and, find-
ing Mr. Grant running an aerodrome
there, stays on to see what can happen.
Anything and everything can, apparently,
and there ensue several ’plane smashes,
a stoush or two and the reformation of
Richard Bathelmess, a pilot who hadn’t
lived up to his profession. It’s all strung
together in a somewhat disjointed whole,
and the emotion in it is as false as that
in “Wuthering Heights” is genuine.
Barthelmess turns in the neatest bit of
acting, and Thomas Mitchell, despite the
limitations of his role, has some moments
as a pilot grounded because of approach-
ing blindness. Both Miss Arthur and
Mr. Grant have done better with better
opportunities.
“The Forgotten Woman.”
Sigrid Gurie.
If anything that undermines the morale
of the public can be calculated as high
treason, the makers of this opus should
be interned for the duration, though, on
second thoughts, the film might serve
some purpose as the best possible reason
for men to leave these parts for overseas.
Showing at Sydney State, it has to do
with poor persecuted wench imprisoned
by righteous district attorney for crime
she didn’t commit. Babe is born in
prison and later adopted by d.a., who
brings it up in luxury until mother is
released and bares her claws for revenge.
Sundry plottings and schemings until d.a.
and mother realise that it’s time for fade-
out clinch.
Miss Gurie has been hailed as a
coming actress, but on this and earlier
showings her talents amount to two ex-
pressions—wistfulness and sorrow.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
MbitaJk
m
I*o s«r*
VptmiaL
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S’pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
Missing Friends
r,FT TTE —Would anyone knowing where-
abouts of JOHN FRANCIS GELLIE, son of
John James Gellie, formerly of Sunbury and
North Melbourne, please communicate with
Macpherson, Smith and Dobson, Solicitors, of
368 Collins Street, Melbourne?
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble Is
caused by tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous. This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you
up. Ask your chemist for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for many years. If backache is bothering
you due to tired kidneys, try DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
At the first stroke of the war gong
the women of Australia turned up their
sleeves and got busy on whichever branch
of war-time service they had equipped
themselves for. Already the Red Cross
helpers have rolled miles of bandages.
The Junior Red Cross is busy ; the flying
girls are ready. Thousands of business-
girls already have qualified in A.R.P. and
first aid, and thousands more are attend-
ing classes. The women’s auxiliary of
the National Defence League was among
last week’s hard workers. The Feminist
Club is forming many auxiliaries to sup-
port existing organisations. Offers crowd
in for the transport auxiliary, the volun-
tary aid detachment and the general ser-
vice auxiliary. Ruby Board, president of
the Women’s Voluntary Register in this
State, has a busy time ahead. The ad-
dress of the Register is ninth floor, Com-
monwealth Savings Bank Building, 14
Castlereagh-street. Da Silva Waugh is
State Commandant of the voluntary aid
detachments, and she is a tower of
strength in Red Cross activities. Mem-
bers of all girls’ sports clubs have ex-
pressed their desire through spokes-
woman Mrs. F. J. Davy to do their bit.
With all of the atlas on thin ice there
seemed a hypnotic lure about “Switzer-
land,” the show on skates, that packed
the Royal for the opening. In this glit-
tering and brilliant razzle-dazzle of move-
ment, men and girls do the impossible
so often that by the end of the night
you are almost persuaded that the easiest
thing in the world would be to slide on
stilts in and out of a line of oranges, or
to become a ballerina on skates. A nice
girl in the stalls was Megan Taylor,
daughter of Phil, world champion skater,
who is star of the show. Megan, her-
self an amateur world’s champion, was
dressed in the softness of white organza.
Her skirt was weighted by a deep flounce
of feather-like fronds of the thistledown
fabric.
Jean Anderson, an enthusiast of snow
sports, was one of the interested, jade-
green chiffons and ermine her attire. Mrs.
Bertie Kelly’s bluely-flowered chiffons
were worn with a turquoise velvet coat.
With the Bertie Kellys were daughter
and son-in-law, the John McPhillamy
couple. He, just back from a jaunt to
Europe, had been welcomed home by a
cocktail party at the Kelly home, 39
Sutherland-crescent. Pat and Barbara
Salenger came with mother. Mrs. A. E.
Grace was handsome in blue and silver
brocade. Her feather cape was clover-
pink. With her were Mrs. Farley, Mrs.
W. Lowe and daughter Doreen. Mist-
blue georgettes and Margaret Dovey were
well suited.
As full of fun as a banana skin is of
fruit is the show at the Minerva. Before
“A Kiss from Kiki” you get a flurry of
fun by Roy Fox and his band and some
vivid dancing by the Streamline Ballet.
Saturday night’s audience was thrilled by
the girl with the Union Jack who leaped
and pirouetted till the flag streamed out
as though from a high battlement, caught
in a breeze of triumph. The medieval
page suggestion in her gold-sashed red
tunic with its wrist-length gold sleeves
may have helped the illusion. The ballet's
lovely limbs were seen to advantage on
Saturday night when it gave its interpre-
tation of a jazz band. This is both comic
and graceful.
Magda Neeld, who put a dash of senti-
ment into the music and dance prelude
to the play, was slenderly fair in spread-
ing black moires. The dressing in “A
Kiss from Kiki” is uniformly smart,
whether the wives with the flighty hus-
bands are at breakfast, entertaining their
admirers or suspicions, or frisking about
in the evening. There’s a morning rig
of white and red linen worn by Suzanne
in the last act that makes instant appeal.
Frocking in the audience was not such
as to excite envy. King’s Cross, quite
rightly, popped in in friendly fashion,
often in hat and day dress. Katrin Roselle
wore a drift of Arctic fox about the
shoulders of her burgundy velvets. Mrs.
Andrews, who was Estelle Oxnard-Smith,
was there with father. Shirley Ann
Richards came with her mother. Ainslie
Baker’s fitting ruby satin coat was ad-
mired. Two aunts of Aileen Britton, who
was playing one of the leads, were there.
Black nets patterned in white were worn
by Mrs. Maurice Gulson.
In spite of war clouds the All-Australia
Rotary Conference had its cheery
moments. There were 1100 visitors. They
came from all the other States, and from
Canada came Dr. C. C. McCullough and
his wife. The doctor is Rotary Inter-
national representative, and he and Mrs.
McCullough are extremely pleasant to
look at and to talk to. They missed the
harbor excursion on the showboat
Kalang because of the late arrival of the
liner that brought them here. Anyway,
they must have seen the velvety splendor
of Port Jackson as their ship came up
our lovely waterway. Nothing could have
been more typically Sydney than to make
the prelude to this conference a water
party. At the Royal Sydney Yacht Club
all the travellers disembarked, had supper
and then made for the Quay.
There were official welcomes and
lunches, and there was a Good Fellow-
ship party, with lots of fun and commu-
nity singing in Grace Brothers’ audi-
torium. The Crawford McCullough
couple turned up smiling at this, and
were welcomed by president of N.S.W.
Rotary Ralph Maynard. Mrs. Maynard
added her words of welcome, and gave
a bouquet of daffodils and delphiniums
to Mrs. McCullough, whose black velvets
were very dignified. Three governors
of Rotary and their wives were hearty
singers of “Rotary Marches On.” They
were Mr. and Mrs. Fox Martin, the Wil-
liam McLuckies and the Angus Mitchell
couple. Mrs. B. John, of Ballarat, wore
black satin caped in ermine. Mrs. Napier
Thomson and the Julius lady were noted.
Conference secretary A. P. Mackie
brought Mrs. Mackie and daughter Kath-
leen.
This is Mrs. de Noskowski, the wife
of Poland’s Consul-General. With her
husband, Mrs. de Noskowski faces a busy
and an anxious time. But she is assured
of the friendly sympathy, not only of
the wide circle of friends which she and
her husband have made, but of the whole
of Australia.
By six o’clock last Thursday evening
Romano’s in York-street was as busy
as a beehive. A sherry party hand in
hand with a fashion display was about
to step out. As a prelude, helpers, Mrs.
R. T. Bourke among them (daughter
Mina later noted among the pretty dis-
played in a rose-cyclamen cocktail frock),
dashed about with piles of programmes,
knots of lavender and long lists. Some-
body was giving last-minute instructions
to the mannequins. The programmes
were modestly priced at sixpence. They
carried a lucky number and a curious
design. It represented an avenue of eyes
down which two fashionable silhouettes
made towards a statue on which stood
an armless Venus complete with a
straight collar dangling a long knot of
maybe vine leaves, maybe flowers.
Soon the 400 spectators were seated,
the arc lights flared, and the girls began
their parade while golden sherry twinkled
and glasses were raised to Poland and to
victory. Pat Burge, pretty and shy,
stepped past in a strapless swimsuit and
fishnet sandals. Janet and Pat Chisholm
gave the slack suit a boost. Just the thing
for a hot day was the Mexican hat that
shaded Janet’s deep lilac-flowered suit.
Alethea Siddons made impressive passage
once in smoke-blue, once in dove-grey.
Morning, afternoon and evening frocks
were displayed with equal charm on
Margot Ruthven. Wendy Burge in white
organza embroidered in black, Betty
Munro and Eugenie McNeil, Margaret
Kitching, and a flutter of other of the
well-known and attractive were in the
parade.
The Julius lady, who was president,
sat with Mayoress Nock, who smiled
over a great clump of presentation
blooms. Mrs. J. L. Ruthven brought a
party. Former secretary for love of the
R.S.P.C.A. Loreen McDougall announced
her engagement to Richard Campbell.
Loreen’s smile was bright under the tiny
burgundy hat that matched her suit.
Richard (he’s of Canberra and Moss
Vale) went festive with a red carnation
in his lapel. A large party of friends
clustered around to congratulate. In
Mrs. Bourke’s party were Mrs. Stiefvater,
the Mayoress’s mother, and Peggy Elliot,
of Melbourne. Mrs. Burge brought
daughter Joy and a group of friends.
Mrs. Cyril Ruward was down from War-
wick Farm. Add busy photographers
and lots of men to the ingredients.
On Wednesday next at a quarter-past
three, Charles Benson will lift his smooth
and melodious voice in the Australia ball-
room. This afternoon recital will be at-
tended by the musical-minded from all
the best suburbs. With the Prime Min-
ister’s advice still in its ears, Sydney
remembers that its duty is to keep life
running in normal channels. That way
lies sanity. So Mr. Benson’s committee,
of which Marie Gordon, just returned
from a holiday in West Queensland, is
secretary, is determined to go on with
this interlude of song.
Marie Gordon, whose own r.ich con-
tralto is widely known on many a charity
concert platform, places Graythwaite
high among her pet places in which to
give entertainments. Only last week she
arranged a concert for the Diggers there ;
and Charles Benson was one of the
singers. Assisting artists next Wednesday
will be Nora Williamson, Mildred Hill,
Nelson Cooke and Hector Tinkler. This
photograph of Miss Gordon is by Peter
Pan.
The Duntroon Bali will take place,
after all. Originally intended to happen
in the ship of that name, the party will
now be transferred to the Blaxland Gal-
leries. When Authority took over the
Duntroon the committee of the ball,
which is to aid the Benevolent Society,
thought to cancel the party. But at a
special meeting at which Mrs. M. F.
Bruxner was chairwoman, it was decided
to just shift its address. Farmer’s or the
Benevolent Society can be ’phoned for
reservations.
Publicity-officer Norma Fyffe-Hender-
son has had a busy time broadcasting the
change of plan. She tells that the Flower
Muff competition is going well. Secre-
taries are Mrs. Harry Vale and Mrs.
Gollan. Tennis tournaments and such-
like preliminary expense-extinguishers
have put £lOO in the kitty. A mountain
of lucky packets is waiting to be con-
quered by silver bullets. To-morrow, the
fourteenth of September, is the date.
The writer of this Letter cannot go to
press without a farewell to Mrs. J. K.
Schartl, who sat in the seat beside her
on innumerable theatre first nights. Mrs.
Schartl died suddenly last week. To her
husband goes the sympathy of a wide
circle of friends.
Perhaps because the crinoline is back
again in fashion, the Sydney Hospital,
whose early days must have coincided
with the hoop and the whalebone,
is taking the spotlight and having its first
ball. This will be known as the Race
Week Ball, and is dated for September
28. The Australia is the rendezvous.
The Governor and Lady Wakehurst, with
daughter the Hon. Henrietta Loder, will
be there. Secretary Mrs. Hamilton Kirk-
land, the wife of knight Norman Paul,
who is a vice-president, and Mrs. Holmes
a’Court were all trainees at Sydney Hos-
pital. And to what do you think the
funds of this ball are directed? Right
first go —the Nurses’ Home, of course.
The Rotary Conference is a thing of
the past, but its friendly memories will
be a green oasis in the minds of its
1100 participants. Eight hundred of these
danced at the Trocadero as the finale to
an interesting week. Seven little debs.,
all in white, were presented to Dr.
Crawford McCullough, of Canada, and
his wife. One of the loveliest frocks was
worn by Mrs. McCullough. It was of
rich cream and gold brocade. The gold
note was repeated again in her sheaf of
daffodils. In the decorations there were
over 2000 daffies. And the decorations
committee, under Mrs. Garnet Halloran’s
guidance, arranged them in 2\ hours.
So you can see there were no sit-down
strikers among the workers.
Mrs. Ralph Maynard, whose husband
is president of Sydney Rotary, wore a
cerise taffeta jacket over amber tulles,
and Mrs. Fox Martin, whose husband
is governor of the Host Club, was attrac-
tive in black and gold.
The lace in Mrs. Lance Fallaw’s pic-
torial frock was one of the soft new blues.
The bodice of this pretty garment was
slimly fitting to the hipline, after which
the laces frothed and swirled. Mrs.
McCullough was greatly taken with the
idea of presenting social fledglings to
the guests of the evening. She admitted
that as far as she knew the little cere-
mony was not usual in Canada.
The stately homes of England have
been drawing a procession of the most
diverse humans to the Blaxland Galleries.
These ancestral piles photograph well,
and the whole 82 have been lent by the
Orient Company. Not only the old-
established castles and manors of Eng-
land, but those of Scotland and Wales
display their towers, their Inigo Jones
facades, their Elizabethan black-and-
white timbering, to the gazer. Besides
the residence of lord and duke you can
see corners of his gardens. Exquisite
bits of formal pleasaunce, of sunken
garden, of bank thick with narcissi, of
tall trees smiling in their green felicity.
There are drawbridges and ornamental
waters, often close to the house, which
one suspects once were the more utili-
tarian moat.
Noticed Lord Wakehurst there, gazing
at, among others, Leonardslee, Sussex.
This is a home of the Lady Loder. The
Orient Co.’s manager was a visitor; so
was Bertie Kelly. With Mrs. Val Osborne
was the wife of Lieutenant Raymont, of
the Water Hen. The gardens illustrated
are those which have been opened to the
public of Great Britain under the
National Gardens Scheme, of which
Queen Mary is patron. The visitors pay
a small fee, and this goes to the Queen’s
Institute of District Nursing. The exhi-
bition should encourage the opening of
even more of Sydney’s garden gates in
the interests of good causes.
Planted in the midst of the ancestral
homes and gardens pictures was a cactus
display. After wandering up and down
avenues peopled by the green, fleshy
pointing hand, the porcupine of cactus
that reminded of pincushions with the
points of the pins all sticking up, and
cactus that were all twisted and tor-
mented limbs, this Letter decided that
probably every known branch of the
family, even poor relations, had been ad-
mitted to the party. A tall, lean man
who had been talking to his companion
of some part of Queensland stood look-
ing down at one specimen: “A damned
dangerous-looking little devil, isn’t he?
he muttered feelingly. Crowning exploit
of the exhibit was a map of Australia, its
different States planted with cacti. Prob-
ably just a warning to wantons.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1452 of 1939.
BETWEEN AGNES GEORGINA DUNCAN
(formerly. Agnes Georgina Richards) of
Lismore in the State of New South Wales
wife of Frederick David Stanley Duncan
of Ballina in the said State Labourer
And the said FREDERICK DAVID
STANLEY DUNCAN of Ballina in the
said State Labourer.
TO FREDERICK DAVID STANLEY
DUNCAN of Ballina in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AGNES
GEORGINA DUNCAN has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion by you for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the First day of December One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this First day of September, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
OAKES & OAKES, Solicitors for Petitioner,
Lismore; by their Agents, D. R. HALL & CO.,
91 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1334 of 1939.
BETWEEN ALFRED ERNEST DOUGLASS
Petitioner
And MURIEL JEAN DOUGLASS Re-
spondent
And ALLAN DEANE Co-respondent.
TO ALLAN DEANE late of Narrabri.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALFRED
ERNEST DOUGLASS has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
your adultery with the Respondent AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twenty-
ninth day of November One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be obtained from the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of August
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. I. ORMSBY Solicitor for Petitioner, 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1298 of 1939.
lETWEEN VERONICA MAUD CUMMING
Petitioner
And DONALD ALEXANDER CUM-
MING Respondent.
O DONALD ALEXANDER CUMMING
late of Narrandera in the State of New
South Wales. „ _ ,
TAKE NOTICE that the said VERONICA
4AUD CUMMING has commenced a suit
gainst you in this Court and is applying for
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
esertion for three years and upwards without
ist cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
Tat you are required to enter an appearance
o the said suit at the proper office of this
:ourt on or before the Fifth day of December
)ne thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and
i the event of your not doing so within the
ime limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
ionar will proceed and the suit be heard and
letermined your absence notwithstanding. A
opy of the petition filed herein may be had
,n application to the undersigned free of
harge. „ „ ,
DATED this Fifth day of September One
housand nine hundred and
(1.5.) C.
thirty-nine.
K. BODY,
Registrar.
SAMUELSON & EWING, Solicitors for the
;titioner, 62 Margaret Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1979 of 1938.
BETWEEN PHYLLIS TRAMA Petitioner
And ROMEO TRAMA Respondent.
TO ROMEO TRAMA late of 38 Union Street
North Sydney in the State of New South
Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said PHYLLIS
TRAMA has commenced a suit against you in
this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of your
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Seventh day of December One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the limited time
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit be heard and determined
your absence notwithstanding. A copy of the
petition filed herein may be had on application
to the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this Eighth day of September, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Victorian women in the city, the
suburbs and the country districts are en-
rolling by the thousand on the Women’s
National- Register. At the Melbourne
Town Hall branch there has been such
a steady stream of traffic all the week
that no one got lost in the follow-the-
leader game. In the past, directions
within the civic building have been rather
vague ; inquirers without a road-map in-
stinct found themselves travelling in
circles round and round an island that
contained the lifts, meeting a barrier
labelled “Gentlemen,” or climbing too
many stairs and finding themselves tres-
passing bashfully in the Lady Mayoress’s
suite.
Women of all classes and walks of
life are anxious to do something of prac-
tical use, but it’s hats off to the basic-
wage earners. Girls who are on their feet
from nine to six and until 9 p.m. on
Fridays have been foregoing one of their
precious evenings every week for classes
in first aid, A.R.P. work, home nursing,
cookery, etc. Men, too, have been at-
tending first-aid classes.
The A.W.N.L. is sending through its
branches a call for comfort cupboards
containing clean-boiled linen, bandages,
etc., to be set up in each district.
The worthy “Housewives” have been
absorbing some A.R.P. information,
and are in full fighting trim v.
profiteering. The A.H.A. came into
existence during the last war for that very
reason. During the last few months the
old school tie has been in evidence. Old
Girls have got together and arranged
classes in first-aid, cookery, etc., with
doubtless a word of gossip dropped here
and there to add palate to the mixture
in the making.
In a speech of substance but with no
assistance from notes, the Scott lady de-
clared open the twenty-first exhibition of
the Twenty Melbourne Painters. The
Athenaeum was crowded with friends and
others interested in art. The Twenty
celebrated their coming-of-age, as they
have in the past kept track of their other
birthdays, by a sudden wave of a wand
over the piano, where cakes appeared
by a transformation of the platform, with
dishes of sandwiches and by a hand-to-
hand passing around of piping hot cups
of tea and coffee.
Among the spectators were Mrs. Louis
McCubbin on a visit from Adelaide with
daughter Pat Spiers Jackson (they have
taken Jimmy Nankivell’s “unit” in East
Melbourne while he’s away on a short
holiday to W.A.). Mrs. McCubbin was
in all black, which choice suits her golden
hair admirably, and Pat wore her favorite
green. Her fiance, Warren Bonython
(also of Adelaide), is on his way back
to England to complete his post-graduate
diploma in chemical engineering. He
came to Australia for the long vacation,
which gave him 26 days in his home
town.
Among others seen at the exhibition
were Mrs. Fred Thiel, boronia pinned to
her tweed lapel, Mrs. Charles Strong
in black with lemon globules for neck-
lace and earrings, Mrs. Kingsley Hender-
son, just returned from two months’ holi-
day in Perth, and Diana Lang in marine-
blue, who came face to face with herself
in a deep-red frock, its tints having
given the opportunity for a charge of
color to W. Frater’s brush. Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson sported a satisfying alliance of
mulberry and blueberry, the virile reds
used for coat and high hat with Dick
Whittington feather and the lighter-
hearted blues playing their part in a duet
for frock and gloves.
Mrs. Norman Picot has “turned pro-
fessional,” in that henceforward she will
organise private parties, charity appeals,
etc., as a business venture. When think-
ing of a job it was natural for her to
turn to the machinery of organisation,
for her experience has been exceptional.
She has organised each of the American
Balls (and the bridge parties which pre-
ceded them) for several years, but her
real training was in her own country,
the U.S.A. Just after the war she was
appointed director of supplies at De-
barkation Hospital No. 5 (in the Grand
Central Palace Building, N.Y.), and
worked in that capacity from the opening
of the institution till two months after
the last man left. It sounds like a big-
gish job, for the hospital ran 3000 beds,
an “army detail” of 500 and a Red
Cross personnel of 250. The storeroom
occupied an acre or so, and everything
down to tubes of toothpaste went through
the hands (or at least the books and
ledgers) of the supplies director.
Later Mrs. Picot was associate director
for three Red Cross Roll Calls (three
separate appeals for money for the Red
Cross). As Americans do everything on
a mammoth scale, so with the Roll Calls.
The staff working for them occupied the
whole of an eleven-storey building in
New York. One floor was “building,”
another “real estate,” and so on through
trades and industries, for only by such
methods could the large population be
classified and approached with a view
towards membership and donations.
Mrs. Picot’s first professional effort in
Australia was the last American Ball,
called “the Golden Gate Fiesta.” She is
now busy with a cabaret tea to be held
at the Palais on October 3, for which she
promises new thrills and surprises. The
party is to be in aid of the Country
People’s holiday camps at Dromana.
A corker show at the King’s is “I
Killed the Count,” produced by Roland
Edwards. Spectators who are present
forget their worries and their specula-
tions, they forget there is a war, and
enjoy a break in the intervals comparing
opinions' about the solution to the mys-
tery of the play. Just before Act 111
they are in as tight a jam as Dorothy
Sayers or Agatha Christie could squeeze
them. The play is a highly-recommended
tonic for the times, for it contains humor
and some of the best collective acting
we have had in Melbourne.
Additional interest is that the author
is a Melbourne man, Alec Coppel,
at present in America, where he is
finding the writing of scenarios a
business much to his taste. His
parents, the Maurice Coppels, were
in the first-night audience. Their gifts
over the footlights of flowers for the
feminine members of the cast, Doris
Packer, Jane Conolly and Katie Towers,
were pleasant surprises much appreciated
by the recipients, none of whom had up
till then met Mr. and Mrs. Coppel.
Author’s sister, Miss M. Coppel, brother
Albert and his wife were also among the
“family” present.
Those who cherish in their bosoms a
soft spot for Savoy operas had a chance
to see “lolanthe” last week, who with
her fairies and their admirers from the
House of Lords went tripping over the
stage of the Comedy on six evenings.
Lennox Brewer produced for the Gil-
sullivan Society, with Arch Maclean and
Paul Fiddian taking turns as the “very
susceptible Chancellor” and Elliott Wells
and Max Hearst switching over into the
buckled shoes of young Strephon.
Grahame Jones revealed slender calves
and a voice of resonance as Earl Mont-
ararat, and Douglas Peart’s easy stage
sense made him a pleasure to watch as
Earl Tolloller. Dorothy James was a
Brunnhilde-like Queen of the Fairies,
Amanda Neill a personable lolanthe and
Carmen von Bencke a Phyllis deserving
of her fair share of swains.
In the Eve Ray portrait is Mrs. R. G.
Menzies, whose message to the women
of Australia is to carry on with thesr
jobs of work as calmly and as cheerfully
as possible. Mrs. Menzies stresses the
importance of children’s schooling and
preparation for careers and of a thought
for the day when peace comes again,
when there must be a sturdy, strong and
well-prepared younger generation ready
to work and play and make history of
a happier era.
Melbourne theatres have had an excel-
lent week. “The Mikado” packed the
Athenaeum for all evenings and after-
noons, and several other shows have run
“House Full” signs. School holidays have
augmented the matinees, but the evening
audiences take their entertainment as a
let-up, and are finding this getting out
and about a much more sensible thing
to do than staying at home waiting for
the radio news. The legit, theatres also
have shared in the mild boom. Good
houses in that direction are a tremendous
uplift for artists, front-of-the-house
staffs, stage hands, etc., all of whom have
jobs they want to keep.
Popular Doodie Anderson, well known
for her skill and accuracy in smiting a
golf ball, was married last week to Dick
Hood, whose interests are aloft, for he’s
secretary of the Aero Club. Geelong was
the scene of the ceremony. The ’groom
is the younger son of the George Hood
couple, of Tintern-avenue, Toorak. The
bride, younger daughter of the H. A.
Andersons, of The Grove, Geelong,
swept up the aisle in ivory satin which
drifted into a train sprinkled here and
there with true-lovers’ knots of seed
pearls.
Attending her were Patsy Leary,
who has been a bridesmaid so many
times that she has forgotten what she
wore on each occasion, and the bride’s
two schoolgirl nieces, Joanne Jamieson
and Sandra Anderson. Sandra longed
for something very fluffy and very femi-
nine for this big day in her life, but
Joanne wanted to go to the church in
jodhpurs. A compromise was effected
with frocks of ruby-red velvet.
In the Spencer Shier photograph is one
of last week’s brides, Deborah Staughton,
fourth daughter of the Arthur Staughtons,
of Keayang, Terang, who was married in
All Saints’, Terang, to George Lansell,
only son of the Leonard Lansells, of
Lansellstow, Bendigo, and of Chah Singh,
Moulamein, N.S.W. If those who be-
lieve in “something old —something bor-
rowed” are on the right track, the bride
should have her share of good luck. Her
veil was of very old Limerick lace lent
by Peggy Essington King.
The wedding gown of heavy cream
satin is a family possession. It was
also worn by the bride’s sister
Elizabeth on the day she became
Mrs. John Larritt. Another sister,
Mrs. James Holden (who was Prudence
Staughton), arrived back from abroad just
in time for Deborah’s wedding, a very
quiet one, to which only intimate friends
and relatives were invited. Mrs. Holden
speeded up the last lap of her journey
by catching the express from Sydney and
motoring on down to the Western Dis-
trict.
First-nighters in all their plumage came
to the opening of “Under Your Hat” on
Saturday. It was a full house, and it re-
ceived in its turn a full measure of enter-
tainment. This show, a contrast to many
others which have been put on half-
rehearsed, has been under way in Adel-
aide, has no raggedy edges and skips
along its spectacular path at the pace of a
joke a minute. Marjorie Gordon, full as
ever of pep and personality, is into and
out of a dozen changes of costume, each
one funnier than the last. It’s only for
the final curtain that she glamorises her-
self with Edwardian hair and earrings
that tickle her shoulders. To meet her
public at the beginning of the show she’s
in a snaky garment, in which she’s been
standing at attention since she was sewn
into it. Pretty soon she becomes a
purple peril of a red-haired French maid
born on a pleasure steamer. For burglary
she wears taffeta slacks; for aviating,
dungarees ; for defrauding the Customs
of a carburettor for an aeroplane, a
skimpy bit of black-and-white silk.
Nobody expects a new idea in musical
comedy, but the Crocodile Parade, with
the ballet as schoolgirls, demure or effer-
vescent, depending upon the proximity of
the headmistress and the unexpected
agility of a dowdy little offsider mistress,
was an original success. Miss Gordon
and the girls, all pretty and adepts at the
art of rhythmic stepping, got a lot of
appreciation for “The Empire Depends
on You,” a particularly clever and
imaginative bit of mime with slants at
Poona, Menzies’s bar and a lot of other
places in passing.
Mrs. Lawrence Green (she’s the wife of
the producer and trained the ballet) was
in the audience, a brunette sleek and
svelte as her black wrap. Beverley Slaney
radiated blonde glamor in apple-green
velvet from shoulders to toes. The
newly-wedded Bill Landales were there:
also the Norman Dawborns. The B. F.
Cox couple, Mrs. Cox wearing black
velvet with two-tiered effect, were accom-
panied by daughter Margaret in a coat
of ivory taffeta. Mrs. Albion Walkley’s
off-white gown spelt Paris in the drape
of its skirt. Her daughter Lynette wore
pastel-blue satin allied forthwith to a
couple of blue foxes.


Relaxation, recrea-
tion, wide scenic
vistas and modern
comfort are assured
to travellers who
take the Canadian
Australasian route
to Europe.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF
N.Z., LTD.
{lncorporated, in N.Z. ).
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street; Melbourne.
A
//f} :
7
7
/
NEW ZEALAND
FIJI.HONOLULU
CANADA .U S A-
▲
A
A
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
*
The SERVICE MAN
The R.A.A.F. is recruiting wireless
operators, fitters and other skilled men.
Over 1000 have volunteered.
* * * *
“Aileron”: The K.N.I.L.M. won t for
long have some of the Australian pilots
who left Australian companies to join the
Dutch air-mail service. , So soon as war
was announced Harry Purvis resigned
and offered his services to the R.A.A.F.
* * * *
Maoriland’s Defence Minister has
announced that one of the first M.L.
regiments to be resurrected will be the
Maqri Pioneer Battalion. It was raised
in 1914, one of the earliest units of the
Anzacs, and served throughout the war.
* * * *
“Amatol” : Mr. Chamberlain, in pay-
ing a tribute to the R.A.F. for the attack
on the German naval bases, mentioned
that “a number of the pilots came from
the Dominions.” That many Australians
will be seeing speedy action in this air
war is certain, for scores have received
R.A.F. commissions.
* * * *
“Sorrento”: Port Phillip continues to
hold its laurels. The first Australian shot
of the last war was fired from its Heads
at the escaping steamer Pfalz. On Mon-
day, Sept. 4, the first shot in the Common-
wealth in the present scrap rang out when
a small vessel inward bound failed to stop
for examination after having passed
through the Rip. She was a small Bass
Straiter whose captain thought he had
done his duty when he had given the
name of his ship.
* * * *
“J.. Want”: The Victorian executive
of the R.S.S.I.L.A. has suggested to Gil-
bert Dyett, the Federal president, that
preference in selection of men for guard
duty at vulnerable points should be given
to unemployed returned soldiers ; and so
it should be. A Digger is likely to know
the job better than any new recruit, and,
besides providing work for men who need
it, the scheme would allow a lot of men
who are needed in civil industry to go
back to their jobs, thus helping to mini-
mise dislocation. Ex-soldier preference
should apply within reason to all public
work, military or otherwise. In Queens-
land police . reserves on £3-a-week pen-
sions have been called up and put on an
£ll 10s. per fortnight basis while returned
men with good records on casual work
have been passed over.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Mackay (N.Q.) graziers
have offered the Commonwealth 50 mili-
tary horses as a gift. They should be
welcome. Mechanised transport is all
right where mechanised transport can go,
but if it should become necessary to
defend this country there are hundreds
of miles of heavily-timbered coastal belt
in which Light Horse would be the only
means of fast mobile transport. What
chance would mechanised transport have
in the valleys back of, say, the Combo.yne
in N.S.W. or in Cape York Peninsula?
* * * *
“Zedo”: The Commonwealth Govern-
ment, in common with other Dominion
Governments, is for “Home Defence
First.” Mr. Menzies has announced
that the existing militia of 78,000 will be
called up in drafts of 10,000 for training
at war stations and protection of vulner-
able points. Each unit will be overhauled
and given 16 days’ war training. Under
the Defence Act every Australian from
18 to 60 years of age is liable to be
called up for active service within Aus-
tralia, though recent emergency legislation
prevents the use of conscription to secure
forces for service overseas. A universal
training scheme is, however, not immedi-
ately contemplated, and special militia
forces will continue to be formed of
volunteers.
“I told you We should ’a brought our parachutes."
“d.8.K.” : That R.A.F. raid on Wil-
hejmshaven and BrunsbUttel reminds me.
During the winter months of i 91 4, the
R-N.A.S., operating from Dunkirk, played
Lieutenant Marix dest royed the Dussel-
dor£ s h e d in which was a new Zeppelin,
descen ding to 600 ft. before dropping his
bombs. The last important raid of 1914
was on Cuxhaven, also attacked by the
R.A.F. a few days ago ; on Christmas
Day, 1914, Zeppelin sheds there were
raided by R.N.A.S. machines with active
Mvnl m nnpratinn Airr-mfl onrriors worn
naval co-operation Aircraft-carriers were
also used—cross-Channel steamers, Enga-
dine, Riviera and Empress.
* * * *
“Tail wavo”" T nnrlnn’s hallnnn har
1 ail-wave . London s balloon bar-
rage will probably be the most powerful
deterrent to night raiders. A balloon
, , . , - c ~ ~
barrage was used in defence Of the City
at the close of the last war. Then it
was known as the apron and flew at
an altitude of between 8000 ft. and
y“ “ -r-u -j ' u , • •
10,000 ft. The idea was borrowed ongl-
nally from the Italians, who put up similar
J , A , • , , ,
screens against Austrian bombers trying
to destroy Venice. The war was over
before the scheme was extended over
, , _ . • „
London. Only on one occasion was a
German raider known to fly into an
“apron” ; he passed right through, though
it was learned later that the impact
damaged a wing and the pilot had hard
work to keep control. Big advantage of
the balloon barrage is that it cannot pos-
sibly be located at night. Berlin has
since copied the idea from London.
F
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Many well-known N.S.W.
rarli'n QmnteuK memhers of the R A AF
radio amateurs, members or me w.zv./\.
wireless reserve, are now busily engaged
in the preliminaries of active-service
training That the R.A.A.F. thus gets
ST proficient W/T operators is® a
tribute to the amateurs who signed up
in the civilian scheme. And there are
many amateurs who will now be valuable
to Signals.
September 11.
“Kaloa” remembers:
On Sept. 11, 1914, the Australian Expedi-
tionary Forces landed at Kabakaul, on the
long beach which gives tourists their first sight
of Mandated New Guinea. It is one of the
most picturesque beaches in the Pacific, golden,
palm-fringed. Northward rise the cones of the
volcanoes which guard Blanche Bay and tower
over Rabaul.
Back of Herbertshdhe (now Kokopo) were
eight white soldiers and 60 natives commanded
by Captain Wuchert, guarding the Bita Paka
wireless station. At Herbertshohe, where the
narrow road to the station and Toma began,
was Lieutenant Mayer with 10 white and 140
native soldiers.
At 3.30 a.m. on September 11, H.M.A.S.
Sydney, with the Parramatta and other de-
stroyers, raced in between the Duke of York
Islands and the high cone of the Mother
Mountain, At 6 a.m. H.M.A.S. Australia
rounded Cape Gazelle from the south with
the old Encounter and the Berrima (transport).
They steamed into Blanche Bay, then the Aus-
tralia turned seaward and lay off the mouth
of the harbor. The Parramatta nosed into
Rabaul’s jetty; the Sydney lay off Herberts-
hohe.
The first men to land were 25 naval troops
under Sub-Lieutenant C. Webber, R.A.N.R., a
Melbourne bookkeeper who afterwards became
an artillery major in the A.I.F. in France.
Lieutenant J. F. Finlayson, R.N., with a naval
shore party, carried a letter from Rear-Admnal
Patey to the German acting-Governor demand-
ing surrender. The acting-Governor had retired
to Toma in the highlands. The German force
at Herbertshohe had retreated to Takubar on
the Bita Paka road.
There was no opposition to the landing.
The Union Jack was hoisted. A second party
of 25 naval reservists under Lt. Rowley Bowen,
a long, lean Queenslander, went ashore at
Kabakaul with Captain Brian Pockley, of the
A.M.C., and Midshipman Buffer. A reinforce-
ment of 10 men under Gunner Yeo followed
from the destroyers Warrego and Yarra.
Bowen’s orders were to make for Bita Paka
and seize the wireless station. A Chinese trader
pointed the way along a narrow road which
ran into the bush. The force took to the
timber —dense scrub with a tangle of vines
and passiflora at foot. They moved in some-
what scattered formation. Suddenly, near a
bend in the road, Petty-officer Palmer and A.B-
Eastman dame on a force of 20 natives led by
a German, Sergt.-major Mauderer. Palmer
fired the first Australian shot of the war at the
officer, who dropped his rifle as his troops
fled, called that he was wounded ajrd surren-
dered. His right arm was fractured.
Bowen ordered him to walk into the road
and call to his men to give in, as there
were 800 Australians on their way and re-
sistance was hopeless. Two other Germans sur-
rendered. One was Capt. Wuchert, command-
ing at Bita Paka, the other Lt. Mayer
The prisoners were sent back to Kabakaul
with a small guard under Midshipman Buffer,
who carried a request for reinforcements. An-
other 59 men were sent ashore under Lt. Hill.
Some of his force were only half-dressed, some
carried no weapon save a Webley pistol. Other
detachments followed.
Bowen, pushing on, was under fire from tree-
tops and rifle-pits by the roadside. About
9.30 a.m. Australia suffered its first casualty
in the war —Able Seaman Williams, a Mel-
bourne City Council employee. Captain Pock-
ley dressed the wound, which was mortal,
and sent him back towards safety in charge of
Stoker Kember. Pockley tied his Red Cross
brassard round Kember's hat, and was shot
himself almost immediately. He died the same
afternoon on ’the Berrima.
Meanwhile Lieutenants Hill and Elwell had
come ashore. Men continued to fall under a
sniping lire as they advanced in extended order
—Able Seaman Courtney, Signalman Moifatt
and A.B. Skillen, of Elwell’s force, which was
trying to catch up with Hill and Bowen.
The advance was complicated by the mining
of the road and by the presence of a trench
ahead. By this time Bowen was wounded—a
bullet had cut a neat groove straight across
the top of his head, and he was lying under
shelter of a log with bullets dropping all round
him.
Hill had taken over command. His own
force was having a better time than the rest—
the natives had been ordered to fire at men
in khaki with rifles, and they did not recog-
nise the shirt-sleeved reinforcements as soldiers.
At 1 p.m. Elwell took command from Hill.
He had had a premonition that he would be
killed, and it so happened as he led, with drawn
sword, a bayonet charge on a trench. Almost
immediately afterwards a white flag went up,
and Lt. Kempf, the German in command,
came out to parley. He refused to discuss
surrender with Hill, who was without tunic
and officer’s badges. After a long argument
with Commander Beresford, a mile down the
road, he surrendered his force and the wireless
station. But the fighting was not over.
Lieutenant Bond, sent to take over the
station and marching, with Kempf in front
carrying a white flag and walking with a
surrendered German non-com., Ritter, met con-
siderable opposition. Ritter was seen trying to
rally natives who had surrendered. He was
promptly killed, with others, and three moie
Australians were wounded —J. H. Tonks, from
Port Adelaide (S.A.), T. Sullivan, of Upper
Mitcham (S.A.) and H. W. Street, who died.
The final foray came 1000 yards from the
w'jreless station, where Bond snatched the
pistols from the holsters of a posse of de-
fiant and astonished Germans. About 7 p.m.
the station was in Australian hands.
The total Australian casualties were two
officers and four men killed and one officer
and three men wounded. The Germans lost
one white non-com. and 30 natives killed,
one white non-com. and 10 natives wounded.
Three officers, 16 non-coms, and 56 natives
were taken prisoner.
Rabaul surrendered bloodlessly, and on Sep-
tember 12 the Berrima was tied up at the
long wharf. By nightfall the German flag
had been hauled down and Lt.-Colonel Paton’s
troops were ashore.
When you pass through the long tree-
planted streets of Rabaul and the German-
planned Botanical Garden, you come to a
corner formed by a fold in the hills, a glade
of green overhung by dark trees which spring
luxuriantly from the rich volcanic soil. Lizards
make little clicking noises among the bamboo
twigs in the grass. Here, under their rain-
drenched mounds, the Australian dead lie. Not
far away are other mounds with inscriptions
beginning “Hier ruht im Frieden” —it is a place
of immense peace and stilness.


j
When certain glands fail,- you
suffer early old age and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
B 21
'GLAND
T# MIC
WRITE
TO-DAY
T.J ONES e CO.
CHEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Use., St. George’s Tee., Pert!
\
WONDER
GARDEN FARM TOOL
Weighs only 3 lhs. Saves 5
1 men’s work weekly. Does 100
different jobs. etc. Hoes,
rakes, shovels, furrows,
slashes, drills, levels, culti-
vates. cuts, trims lawns,
hedges, nicks weeds, nettles.
clears undergrowth, etc. PRICE, 15 / 6. Free trial
offered. 75 other lines. Agents required. RE-NU
CO., Op. Richmond Stn., Melbourne.
MACQUARIE GROVE
FLYING and GLIDER
SCHOOL PTY., LTD.
CAMDEN, N.S.W.—’Phone: Camden 13.
NOTICE TO PUBLIC.
Owing to the recent develop-
ments overseas, the Official
Opening of the New Hangars
and Workshops by the
Hon. J. V. Fairbairn,
M.H.R., on Saturday,
September 30, has been
cancelled.
E. MACARTHUR ONSROW, Manager,
Box 4, Camden.
0
I I
THE FLYING COLUMN
Safer Flying Instruction.
Further details are available of the
ne\v British Cygnet light aeroplane (B.
23 / 8 / ’39) designed to introduce new
factors of safety in flying training. In
demonstrating the Cygnet the brake
was released with the engine run-up,
and with no handling of the control
column the throttle was opened as the
machine gathered speed. It is unneces-
sary to touch the “stick” until enough
An "exploded” view, from the “Aeroplane,” of the General Aircraft Co.'s
( England) Cygnet light aeroplane with tricycle undercarriage; 150 h.p. Cirrus
Major engine.
speed has been reached for take-off, then
with a hearty pull the machine climbs.
With the tricycle undercarriage it is not
even necessary to turn into wind!
The machine was put into a circuit
without touching the rudder bar, and
close turns were made with the “stick”
alone and by keeping the nose up. When
stalled the ’plane sank quickly but on
a comparatively level keel. The limited
elevator travel makes it impossible to
stall the Cygnet hard enough to start
a spin. Wing form also helps, the dihedral
angle being very large. Landing is at a
fairly high speed, but the tricycle under-
carriage compensates.
The designing engineer of the
Cygnet, who is also the pilot for
demonstrations, is satisfied that a spin
cannot result because of faulty handling
of controls. The nearest he has got to
a spin is a tight spiral with steadily in-
creasing sped.
D. B. K.
Naval Air Power.
The striking power of the British navy
was increased recently by the addition
of the aircraft-carrier Illustrious, from
the Vickers-Armstrong works, The Ark
Royal was completed last November, and
the Indomitable is about due.
Illustrious has a displacement of 23,000
tons and a top speed of at least 30 knots.
Details of these new aircraft-carriers
may not be disclosed for obvious reasons,
but Ark Royal has a length on the
water of 685 ft. and a displacement of
22,000 tons. Length of the flight deck,
which overhangs the water-line length,
is 800 ft. Her engines developed 103,000
h.p. on trials, and she attained a speed
of 31.75 knots. Total complement is
147 officers and 1575 men.
Fore and aft the ends of the flight deck
are rounded downwards to improve air
flow over the deck. Two catapults,
operated hydro-pneumatically, are fitted
at the extreme forward end, enabling
flights to be made when the ship is
stationary. Transverse and longitudinal
windscreens are fitted to protect aircraft
on deck. Eight arresting wires run across
the mid-deck to engage the landing hook
which a pilot lowers from his ’plane. The
wires are clear of the deck by about Ift.
As the hook catches one of the wires
the wire gives to a certain extent and
then stops the ’plane.
Aircraft with wings folded are moved
swiftly to and from the flight deck by
three huge lifts. There are two hangar
decks, capable of housing about 72
’planes. The hangars have electrically-
operated steel fireproof curtains and
large-aperture sprinklers.
Ark Royal was fully tested in rough
weather, and proved to have notable
stability and power of manoeuvre. When
crossing the Bay of Biscay in a gale she
had an easy motion with an angle or
roll which did not in the main exceed
five degrees from the Vertical, which
means that even in rough weather aii-
craft could be operated from her corn-
paratively easily.
Co-operation with France.
For the best part of this year the
British aircraft industry has been main-
taining a flow of up-to-date equipment
for the French air force, in addition to
meeting the heavy demands of the R.A.F.
In April French Air Minister Guy La
Chambre visited England and held a
number of conversations with Sir Kings-
ley Wood with a view to facilitating the
production of aero engines, air frames,
and other equipment for immediate and
future requirements. As a result of the
discussions a Vickers Spitfire multi-gun
fighter was sold to France, and arrange-
ments were made for the manufacture
of fighters of this type under license
in France. The Rolls-Royce Merlin
engine (1050 h.p.) was also being
made under license there long be-
fore the outbreak of war. Other arrange-
ments for aero engines for use in French
war ’planes included Merlin engines,
to be made by the French Ford Co., and
Bristol sleeve-valve types. The latter are
under production in a new factory in the
south of France by a concern corre-
sponding to the British Thomson-Houston
Co.
Australian Air League.
The importance of the league in
future air affairs of Australia cannot
be overemphasised. It is now established
in N. S. Wales, Victoria and Queensland,
and over 10,000 boys and youths have
received important training and instruc-
tion.
During the last 12 months 14 cadets
have qualified for the “A” license as
pilots, and 25 now in training are expected
to qualify at once. Two league pilots
have been granted R.A.F. commissions,
and more than 50 cadets are employed
with the R.A.A.F.
Instruction includes the theory of
flight, aero engines, radio and aerial
navigation. The league has plans in
hand for extension of work throughout
NSW. Funds are needed; donations
should be sent to the general secretary
at Sirius House, 23-25 Macquane-place,
.Sydney.
“Ex-R.A.F.”: The latest R.A.F. list
published in May is a slimmer volume
than any previous edition since 1936,
and only half the size of its immediate
predecessor. The old list contained in-
formation of the home and overseas
commands and their staffs ; of the groups
forming commands; of the stations and
number and type of operational, squad-
rons or training establishments in each
group; of the location of those squad-
rons and estabhsn-
ments, and even of the
number of pilots in
each squadron, to-
gether with a great
deal of other detailed
information. The pres-
ent issue indicates
units by numbers, and
gives no hint of loca-
tion, strength or place
in the Service organi-
sation.
* *
“Ek Dum”: The
outbreak of war
should give us a
chance to develop a
nice reserve of fight-
ing pilots habituated
to modern fast
machines. Australians
have a great reputation with the R.A.F.
and there is likely to be room for as
many as care to offer themselves, pro-
vided they have the suitable physical
make-up. If they go in sufficient numbers
there should be no difficulty in having an
adequate personnel to take care of those
Bristol Beauforts.
An American development. The Douglas TBD-1 is a fighter type craft with wings
arranged for folding in the novel manner shown. The wing-folding mechanism
is a military secret and was blacked out in this illustration, which, incidentally, was
taken at an American public airport!
“Aileron”: C. G. Grey, editor of the
“Aeroplane” for 30 years, devoted one
of the last articles he wrote to a
resume of “Bill” (P. G.) Taylor’s flight
across the Indian Ocean:
As with so many of the great feats in
history the London papers have ignored
this historical (light, which may in some
future time save our Imperial communica-
tions, and in any case may be one of the
world’s great air routes. A curious example
of the lack of British thoughtfulness in
contrast with the business acumen of other
nations is seen in the fact that almost as
soon as he arrived in Africa Bill received
an invitation from the K.L.M. to fly with
thern t-> and on to Sydney by
the K.N.I.L.M.
* * * *
“Zedo”: A recent measure brings the
U.S. Emergency Air Programme expen-
diture for aerial defence this year up to
£110,000,000 sterling July exchange
which represents about one-third of the
whole of the 1939-40 outlay on defence.
♦ * * *
“A.A.11”: The Golden Flind has been
turned out an impressive job. She is
larger than the original design—l34ft.
wing span, or 20ft. more than the Empire
flying-boats—and the height is 37ft. 7in.
The ship can do 2500 miles non-stop
with a load, plus 11 tons of fuel
needed for the journey. She can take off
at a loaded weight of 35| tons. Power
loading (take-off) is 13.31 b. per h.p., and
wing loading 341 b. per sq. ft.
•* * * *
“Geospar”: A Supermarine Spitfire
(Vickers-Armstrong) single-seater fighter
of standard service type, fitted with a
1030 Rolls-Royce Merlin 11. engine, re-
cently did 367 m.p.h. at a height of
18,400 ft. at Martlesham Heath, England.
The increase in speed over the previous
maximum level speed of 362 m.p.h. is
due to the difference between a control-
lable-pitch airscrew and one of fixed pitch
previously used. At 15,000 ft. the speed
was 346 m.p.h. with the fixed-pitch air-
screw.
# * * *
“Luft”: There is still much surmise
about the strength of German air forces.
Last October the air reporter to the
French Chamber of Deputies placed the
front-line strength at 4500 machines.
Since then the Czech Air Force has been
taken over, and building has been going
ahead at the rate of perhaps 400 machines
a month. Max Werner says there are
750 aerodromes in Germany with a
machine capacity of 10,000 to 12,000.
The force has been in a constant state
of war rehearsal during the past year.
Over 400 machines were used, according
to British official reports, in the occu-
pation of Austria and 500 in the taking
of the Sudetenland.
* * * *
“Aileron”: There isn’t much doubt
about the airmindedness of young Aus-
tralians. Applications for entry into the
R.A.A.F. as cadets in a. recent three
weeks numbered 1100, and there were
1000 youngsters ready to take short-ser-
vice commissions in the R.A.F. for over-
seas training, together with 700 eager for
appointment to the Equipment Branch
2800 in all. It is a pity that some sort
of training cannot be given those who
cannot be absorbed, so that they might
be available as a civil and military re-
serve. Even if they were taken only to
the advanced “A” stage it would be a
beginning.
* * * ♦
“S.P.”: Fighter ’planes of the P 24
type built by the Polish P.Z.L. Co., gull-
winged monoplanes of unusual design,
are doing good work in the defence of
Poland. Although the P. 24 has a fixed
undercarriage, it can reach 260 m.p.h.
and lands at only 70 m.p.h. It carries
four machine-guns, including two 20mm.
cannon mounted at the junction of wings
and struts. The engine is a large French
Gnome-Rhone radial.


j
WILCOX, SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
16 Page Baying and
Selling List I'ree.
Established 49 years.
Bankers; The Union.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager — D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and U 4 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the! World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
SHORTHAND
You will learn Dutton Shorthand completely in
12 two-hour lessons. Practice gives speeds to
200 w.p.m. Already over 50,000 writers. Details
and first lesson free without obligation.
DUTTON SHORTHAND (N.Z. Branch), P.O. Box
1644 P, Wellington, N.Z.
IN ONE WEEK
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Girl (15), Sydney, seeks office position, city
or northern suburbs. —4669.
Gentleman, middle-aged, Sydney, used to light
duties, clerical, caretaker, seeks similar posi-
tion.—466B.
Man (45), married, wants position of trust.
Thoroughly conversant with all kinds of station
life, knows sheep, cattle, horses and windmills,
and understands pasture improvement; several
years present position, own dogs. Refs.—
4650.
Man, early fifties, Sydney, seeks position;
used to shop work, also abie to drive lift. —
4616.
To buy book entitled Lost for Gold. —4671.
To buy The Bulletin for Sept. 8, 1883; the
whole of 1896, 1897 and 1899; July to Dec.,
1900; July to Dec., 1902; Jan. 9, 1913; June
3, 1926. All copies from 1896 onward must
include covers so as to contain the Red Page
or its forerunners. —4648.
To buy the following numbers of the
“Bookfellow”: Series I, vol. I (1899), No. 1
(Jan. 7); series 11, vol. 2 (1907, issued under
the title “Australia”), Nos. 6-7; series 111, vol.
7 (1922-3), any issues after No. 11 (Aug. 15,
1923); also the January, February, April and
June numbers of “Stage and Society” for 1926,
containing the final “Bookfellow” articles. —
4647.
To buy colored prints of the racehorses
Manolive, Palfresco, The Trump, Northwind,
Hall Mark, Liberal, Sylvandale, Hua, Ajax,
Marabou, Peter Pan and Phar Lap.—4625.
Whereabouts of Eileen Cotty and Bessie Foy,
who were members of J. C. Williamson cos.
for many years.—463l.
Information Sought.
Date of Ottawa Agreement and names of
British delegates who signed it ? —4561.
The Ottawa Agreements between the United
Kingdom and the various Dominions were all
signed on August 20, 1932. All of the agree-
ments, with the exception of that with Canada,
were signed by Stanley Baldwin on behalf of
the United Kingdom. The agreement with
Canada was signed by Neville Chamberlain.
The agreements with the United Kingdom were
signed on behalf of the various Dominions
by the following persons: Canada, R. B.
Bennett; Australia, S- M. Bruce; M.L., J. G.
Coates; S. Africa, N. C. Havenga; New-
foundland, F. C. Alderdice; India, Atul C.
Chatterjee; and Southern Rhodesia, H. W.
Moffat.
* * * *
In writing business correspondence I am
sometimes in doubt when to use ‘‘will” or
‘‘would.” I am also in doubt when ‘‘may”
should be used and when ‘‘might.” Could you
give me simple rule? —4665.
(1) “Will” is present tense and, unless quali-
fied, implies an unconditional promise, as “we
will deliver without delay.” “Would” is future
tense, and is generally used where conditions
govern the promise, as “if these terms were
accepted we would be able to commence de-
liveries at once.” (2) The distinction is less
marked in this case, but “might” has a little
more the flavor of the conditional than
“may.” If in response to a proposal you say
“I may accept,” you seem to imply that at
the moment' ydu can see no very strong objec-
tion to acceptance. If you say “I might
accept” you seem to imply that you see diffi-
culties and intend to consider them.
* * * *
What is a brass Otho ? It occurs in the fol-
lowing passage by Macaulay: ‘‘But, to
Frederick William, this huge Irishman was
what a brass Otho or a vinegar Bible is to a
collector of a different kind.” —4693.
Marcus Salvius Otho was Roman Emperor
a.d. 68-69. He reigned but 80 days, and,
so far as is known, issued only gold and silver
coins. Nevertheless, antiquaries hope that a
deposit of brass coins of this Emperor may
yet be discovered.
4C # * 4C
How many ships belonging to the London
Missionary Society bearing the name John
Williams have been wrecked, and where and
when? —4688.
Three. The first, a barque, was wrecked on
Pukapuka or Dangar Island, north of the
Samoan group, about May 17, 1864. The
second left Sydney some time in 1866, and
struck hard on a reef in Anelcahant Harbor,
Aneityum Island. She returned to Sydney,
left again, and was totally wrecked on Niue
(Savage Island), on January 8, 1867. The
third, formerly the Samoa, began service in
1868, and continued until sold in 1894. While
trading between M.L. and Sydney in 1896 she
became missing with all hands.
$ * 4= *
How did the (1) Red, (2) Black, (3) Yellow
and (4) Dead Seas get their names ?—‘ 4684.
(1) So called by the Greeks and Romans,
perhaps because it was the sea of Edom ( the
red man”); perhaps because the shore is a red
sand, or perhaps because the waters are red-
dened by red seaweeds or a red bottom. (2)
So named by the Turks on account of its black
rock (3) Probably got its name from the fact
that the Yellow River (Hwang Ho), a very
yellow, muddy river, empties into it. (4)
Derived its name either from the absurd theory
first found in Josephus that Sodom and
Gomorrah were beneath its waters, or from
the fact that on account of its saltness fish
cannot live in it, the absence of seabirds and
the lack of vegetation on its shores.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning George Robin-
son and his work among the Tasmanian abo-
rigines ? —4681.
George Augustus Robinson migrated to
Hobart from England in 1824 and worked as
a bricklayer and builder. Ardently pious, he
became associated with the Bethel Union, and
came into contact with the aborigines, whose
plight excited his active interest. In 1829
Governor Arthur placed him in charge of a
small aboriginal station on Bruni Island. Here
he studied the native language and gained
an ascendancy over the refugees under his
charge, and among them picked assistants for
the work of rounding up the tribes. This he
accomplished unarmed and peacefully, and the
aborigines were placed under his charge on
Flinders Island in 1835. He was later appointed
Protector of Aborigines in Victoria. In 1849
his office was abolished, and he returned to
England, to die there in 1866.
* * * *
(1) Was Millocker’s opera “Bettelstudent,”
a film version of which is being shown in
Sydney, ever staged in Sydney? (2) Names of
the principals ? (3) Was it ever revived in Syd-
ney ? —4598.
(1) W. Beatty Kingston's English version,
known as “The Beggar Student,” was performed,
in Australia by John Solomon’s Opera Com-
pany at the Sydney Opera House, King and
York streets, on June 3, 1889. It ran four
weeks. (2) Principals were Lilian Tree, Louise
Lablache, Clara Thompson, Isabel Stuart,
Henry Bracy, Knight Aston, Geo. P. Carey,
Will Stevens and John Forde. (3) Yes, twice:
on March 29, 1890, at the Criterion Theatre,
and on March 6, 1897, at the Lyceum Theatre.
sfc * * *
How did Preston ( Melbourne ) get its name ?
—4595.
In 1850 some of the pioneer residents of
Irishtown who used to meet at Mr. Wood’s
store in High-street (the store still exists)
decided to rename the suburb Preston because
of its close resemblance to Preston, Sussex,
England, whence about 50 settlers had come
in 1841.
# * * *
(1) An applicant for old-age pension owns
a cottage valued at £825, on which there is a
mortgage of £BOO and arrears of interest
totalling £l5O. Applicant does not live in the
cottage, but lodges with a relative, paying for
keep. How does possession of the cottage
affect pension ? (2) Could any deduction be
made if applicant owned a motor-car valued
at £lOO, and also has £2O in a bank? —4591.
(1) Property valued at £825 on which there
is an encumbrance of £BOO would not in itself
preclude the payment of a pension at the
maximum rate, but the net value of the
property would have to be taken into account
in conjunction with the value of other assets
possessed by the claimant. (2) The value of a
car and the amount of bank credit would be
included in the computation in assessing the
pension rate, as the Invalid and Old-age Pen-
sions Act provides that, where a pensioner has
property other than the home in which he
permanently resides, the rate of pension other-
wise payable shall be subject to a deduction of
£1 for every complete £lO by which the net
capital value of the accumulated property ex-
ceeds £5O. Where the capital value of property
exceeds £4OO no pension is payable.
* * * *
(1) In what year was the first map on Mer-
cator’s projection published? (2) A few
details concerning Mercator? —4670.
(1) In 1568. Improvements were introduced
in this projection by Wright in 1590. It came
into more general use from about 1630, owing
largely through Dieppese support. (2) Gerardus
Mercator was a Flemish mathematician and
geographer born at Rupelmonde, in Flanders,
on March 5, 1512. He studied at Bois-le-Duc
and at Louvain, where in 1534 he founded
his geographical establishment. In 1537 he
published his earliest known map, now lost
(Terrce sanctoe descriptio), and in 1541 he
issued his celebrated terrestrial globe. Mer-
cator died on Dec. 5, 1594, and was buried
in St. Saviour’s Church, Duisburg.
* * * . .*
(1) When was the Missouri River discovered ,
and by whom ? (2) When was it first navi-
gated by steamboats ? —4656.
(1) The mouth of the Missouri was dis-
covered in 1673 by Marquette and Joliet while
they were coming down the Mississippi. Early
in the eighteenth century French fur-traders
began to ascend the river, and in 1764 St.
Louis was established as a depot. The first ex-
ploration, from its mouth to its headwaters,
was made in 1804-05 by M. Lewis and W.
Clark. (2) In 1819. The American Fur Co.
began to use steamers in 1830, and in 1858
60 regular packets were engaged in it. Its
decline began in the following year with the
completion of the Hannibal and St. Joseph
railway.
sj: # * *
(1) Is there a more simple method of weld-
ing steel and mild steel than the usual black-
smith’s method? (2) If so, details of process?
(3) Cost of plant, and where obtainable? —
4544.
(1) The oxy-acetylene process is more easdy
learned, and a few weeks’ practice will de-
velop the skill necessary to handle ordinary
work likely to be met with in the average shop.
(2) In this process the welds are made by
directing the oxy-acetylene flame on the pieces
to be welded at the place where they are to be
joined until the metal is molten, and then
adding metal of the same character
which is provided in the form of wire or sticks
of suitable dimensions for the purpose. (3)
Welding plants from £l2 7s. 6d., acetylene
generators £l2 12s. 6d., from H. P. Gregory
and Co., 74 Clarence-street, Sydney, or from
Kookaburra Products, Ltd., Renwick-street,
Redfern, N.S.W.
* * * *
In a game of five-card cribbage the cards are
played as follows: Three, four, two, five,
three. How are these cards scored? —4579.
Player of the two scores three for a three-
card sequence; of the five, four for a four-
card sequence. The last three scores nothing
(unless last card played), being a duplicate of an
earlier card.
* * * *
A gearbox lubricant is composed of a mix-
ture consisting of 60 p.c. grease and 40 p.c.
oil. How many pounds ( avoirdupois ) and
fluid ounces of grease and oil respectively
will be required to make half a gallon of the
mixture .''—4593.
Cannot say unless specific gravities are stated,
but you will probably be near enough to the
mark if you take 32 fl. oz. of oil and 31b. of
grease. A hard type of grease requires more
oil and a fluid type less oil.
* * * *
I wish to obtain instruction in I.C. engine
magnetos and ignition systems. (1) Can you
recommend a simply-explained book dealing
with this subject? (2) Failing this, where can
a correspondence course be obtained, and
cost ?-— 4588.
(1) Magneto Manual, by H. R. Langham
(Technical Press, London), 9s. 3d., post
free; Motor Electrical Manual (Temple Press,
London), 45., post free. (2) From International
Correspondence Schools (A/asia), 140 Eliza-
beth-street, Sydney. About £5. Apply to
general sales manager stating electrical know-
ledge, if any.
* * * *
Directions for repolishing a table damaged
by a hot teapot? —-4571.
Heat marks on polished wood can some-
times be removed by rubbing with a flannel
moistened in olive oil, followed by treatment
with furniture polish. The following method
also is recommended: Place four thicknesses
of blotting-paper over the marks, and iron
with a warm but not hot iron. As soon as the
iron has made the wood warm, rub the
spots with a piece of hard white paraffin wax,
rubbing hard enough to leave a wax coating.
Have ready some pieces of hot flannel, and
rub the waxed places with one of these; as
the flannel cools, take another hot piece and
continue rubbing; repeat with the heated cloths
until the marks disappear.
* * * *
Formula for printing ink used in line-engrav-
ing printing ? —4602.
Linseed oil is heated until it “strings”—that
is, it will form a thread if drawn on the point
of a rod from a drop on a metal plate; resin
is carefuly and slowly stirred in, the whole
well stirred; soap is then added and stirred
thoroughly. This is called the varnish; the
ink is then prepared by adding the pigment to
the varnish and grinding finely in a levigating
mill. For black ink, the pigment is lamp-
black mixed with a little Prussian blue or
indigo. There are many variations of color,
and the quantities must be decided by the
manufacturer.
* * * s*
What are orchids, and what makes them so
valuable ? —4679.
There are many thousand varieties of orchids
divided into two groups, one growing non-
parasitically on trees, and the other on the
earth. The flowers, brilliantly colored, are often
highly scented, range through all sizes, and
have six perianth segments, three sepals, two
petals and a labellum. In the centre is the
column, a union of stamens, style and stigma
in one organ. The most costly orchids grow
in tropical jungles, remote from civilisation,
and are obtained at risk to human life; hence
their high value. But there are quite cheap
ones—many are growing wild within 10 miles
of the Sydney G.P.O.
* * * *
What trees can be recommended for wind-
breaks and shelter belts in N.S.W. coastal dis-
tricts ? —4672.
First group (smaller-growing species to be
used for small breaks, or in association with
taller species in multiple-row breaks): Queens-
land nut, olive, camphor laurel, tulip, lemon-
scented backhousia, carob, New Zealand Christ-
mas-bush and lillipilli. Second group (taller-
growing species): Insignis pine, cluster pine,
turpentine, weeping lillipilli, pittosporum, mag-
nolia, Chinese privet, cypresses, wattles, brown
pine, wheel-tree and silky oak.
* * * *
(1) With whom and when and where did Jack
Dempsey .have his last fight? (2) Was it for the
world’s heavyweight championship ? (3) What
is Dempsey doing now ?—4622.
(1) With Gene Tunney at Chicago on Sep-
tember 22, 1927. (2) Yes. Tunney outpointed
Dempsey. (3) He runs two restaurants in
New York.
* * * *
Who had the longer reach, Jack Johnson or
Tommy Burns ? How did they compare in
physique other than reach, and what were their
ages when they fought for the world’s heavy-
weight championship in Sydney over 30 years
ago ?— 4414.
Burns, with had a longer reach than
Johnson, whose span was 72fin. Burns
weighed 12st. o|lb., and was sft. 7in. tall, to
Johnson’s 15st. weight and 6ft. o|in. height.
When Johnson beat Burns in 14 rounds at
Rushcutter Bay on December 26, 1908, he gave
his weight as 13st. 101 b., but his poundage was
really 15st. At that time Burns was years
old and Johnson 29 years and nine months.
* * * *
Did the late Archie Jackson ever play against
Larwood, bowling bodyline, in England or Aus-
tralia 3^-4508. .
Archie Jackson did not play in the so-called
“bodyline” Test matches of 1932-33. He died
on February 16, 1933. Jackson batted in other
Tests against Larwood at Adelaide, February
1-8, 1929, scoring 164 and 36 (Larwood, 1-9-
and 0-60); at Melbourne, March 8-16, 1929,
scoring 30 and 46 (Larwood, 1-83 and 0-85) ;
at Leeds (Eng.), July 11-15, 1930, scoring 1
(Larwood, 1-139); and Kennington Oval, August
16-20, 1930, scoring 28 (Larwood, 1-132). Lar-
wood did not get Jackson’s wicket in any match
in which they were opponents.
Brief Answers.
5.8.: Cannot find an artist named Goupil
in any of the art dictionaries... .J.P.: W. P.
Frith painted a number of Charles Dickens’s
characters. His “Derby Day,” now in the
Tate Gallery, London, was considered one ot
his finest works. “The Road to Ruin” sounds
like the work of Hogarth... .J.S.C.: The only
artists by the name of Rossi on record are
Mrs. S. A. Rossi and Alexander Rossi. Both
painted domestic subjects between 1870-93.
Alexander Rossi exhibited 49 pictures at the
Royal Academy... .M.J.S.: No trace in W.A.
police records of the explosion to which you
refer... .M.F.F.: Get in touch with Eric Lowe,
79 Pitt-street, Sydney.. . .H.W.A.: Get in touch
with the Consuls for the various South Ameri-
can republics... .5.8.: Write National Union of
Conservative and Unionist Associations....
T.A.: (1) It would help her if she gained her
leaving certificate. (2) and (6) Ordinary school
course in English is sufficient for a beginning.
(3) and (4) Would be helpful, but carries no
guarantee of employment. (5) The course
mentioned is reliable. (7) Not many openings,
and competition is keen. She would need to
be on the spot to obtain such a position. (8)
Yes G.L.: The V.C. is the highest military
decoration J.W.S.: Write Under-Secretary,
Dept, of Agriculture, Melbourne R. 8.:
Whilst the only disease excluded from the
definition of “injury” in the N.S.W. Workers'
Compensation Act, 1926-38, is one caused by
silica dust, the worker must show that the
disease from which he is suffering is at least
reasonably attributable to the nature of his
employment... .G.D.: Write C.S. and 1.R., 314
Albert-street, East Melbourne W.G.: (1)
H. R. Ballington ran from Bath to London
(100 miles) in 13hr. 19min. in 1937; G. Little-
wood ran 296 miles 1056 yards in 48 hours
in England in 1884. (2) More than 150 miles
has often been run in 24 hours... .C.M.S.: (1)
Freehold is the highest and most compre-
hensive title to land known to British law
and is “the only free lay mode of holding
property.” Leasehold is the conveyance of
property in land for life or years giving the
lessee the use of the land but not the land
itself. (2) Freehold land under the old form
of title can now be brought under the Real
Property Act (Torrens), thus simplifying its
transfer. (3) Depends on value A.A.: The
wife cannot claim any specific proportion of
her husband’s income for maintenance, house-
keeping and so on, but if the amount allowed
her is inadequate for her maintenance she
could pledge his credit for the necessaries not
provided... .A.H.G.: (I) C. Holma James,
135 Canterbury-road, Middle Park, Melbourne.
(2) Not locally, but there have been attempts
overseas. (3) Some of the parts may be useful.
Get in touch with Mr. James... .M. 8.: Under
the Public Health Act (N.S.W.) it is provided
that, upon the complaint of any inhabitant that
any “hogsty” is a nuisance or injurious or
dangerous to health, any two justices after
investigation of the complaint may by notice
in writing order the owner or occupier of the
premises to remedy or remove the nuisance.
Should he fail to do so he is subject to a
penalty. Until the nuisance is in existence
you cannot do anything on the mere ground
of supposition. See the local Inspector of
Nuisances, who is also an officer under the
Health Act, and submit the matter to him
M.F.: The privilege extended to members of
Parliament in statements made by them in the
House is not applicable to meetings of Shire
Councils, Pastoral Protection Boards, etc.
Slander is not covered by any privilege in
such cases R.M.: He is entitled to claim
payment of the overdue wages out of the
estate of his deceased employer. Ascertain
who is administering the estate and make the
claim through him....W.W.: “Battler’s” Tales
of Early Rockhampton was published by its
author, J. Grant Pattison, The Sanctuary,
Nerimbera, Rockhampton (Q.) 8.5. R.: (1)
£15,000. (2) and (3) Can’t say. It was en-
tirely a matter between him and the depart-
ment J.A.W.: Suggest that you get in touch
with the National Roads and Motorists’
Association, 3 Spring-street, Sydney H.G.L.:
If the approximate year of the vessel’s arrival
is furnished a further search will be made....
A.L.M.: No knowledge of the occurrence of
oil in the Scotch thistle except possibly in the
seeds. If you care to furnish details to the
Curator, Technological Museum, Sydney, he
would provide any information which may be
available T.G.: Send it to an art dealer,
such as the Macquarie Galleries, 19 Bligh-street,
Sydney G.L.H.: Could not say without
inspection... .8.G.M.: There is a slight demand
for volumes of the magazine mentioned.
Present value is about two to three times pub-
lished price, plus cost of binding. Best plan
is to dispose of them to a private collector;
booksellers would give only a third to half
their value A. 8.: Depends upon the man,
but generally speaking an applicant of 44
would stand small chance of appointment.
There is plenty of competition from competent
young men with experience A.W.E.: (1)
No demand locally. (2) Obtainable through
local stamp dealers... .C.G.8.: She should
consult a local medico L.W.: No
J A.F.: Information not available in Sydney.
J.W.: The Institute of Social Service, Bris-
bane, is an organisation controlled by a board
of directors, comprising Dr. P. J. Kirwan,
Messrs. Christopherson, McCann and J. M.
Sloan and Colonel Lamond. The purpose
of the organisation is to help penniless lads
and give them physical training and instruc-
tion as naval cadets. It is non-sectarian, non-
political and free. The coupon or stamp is
for sale at face value, and the institute hopes
to be able to raise sufficient funds to add to
its present building.


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Only one minute from G.P.O. and four from
Wynyard Square Railway Station. Every com-
fort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney.
j
Bali —Singapore
Bathed in glorious 'tropical sunshine,
Java, with her countless attractions,
awaits you beautiful landscapes
ancient temples bazaars colourful
native life—palatial hotels. Equipped
with every modern convenience, the
t.s.s. "MARELLA” and m.v. "MERKUR"
sail regularly from Melbourne and
Sydney along a smooth water route.
Life on board is pleasant. Spacious
decks, restful lounges, a tiled swim-
ming pool, the latest talking picture
equipment—each day is pleasure-filled.
At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 61.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE ST., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE B 7901
», w:-
\
1
128 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE 312 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
And at ADELAIDE, FREMANTLE, CAIRNS, WELLINGTON. AUCKLAND
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Mackay’s New Harbor
“Eungella”! It cost a cool million
before it was finished to its present stage,
but a stranger scoffing at the outlay
would risk a clout in the eye. Mackay
has become harbor-conscious as Sydney
is bridge-conscious.
The job looks like a swimming bath
built under Roosevelt’s New Deal. It
has two gigantic walls of stone, the
northern one 3315 feet long—not quite
finished yet. About 1,500,000 tons of
stone has been used. It is needed. The
extreme of tidal rise and fall is about 20
feet, and tidal waves and hurricanes are
not unknown. The pier is 138 feet wide
and 1450 feet long, including approaches,
and a minimum 33 feet of depth is pro-
vided at the jetty at low water. At high
water, ships drawing over 40 feet can be
accommodated —Britain’s largest battle-
ships could anchor just inside the
entrance.
The opening of the harbor fell nicely
near the anniversary of the birth of Cap-
tain John Mackay, the discoverer of the
site of Mackay. So short is time that I
remember the old boy well. He was a
stocky dry old Scot, with a sandy beard,
who might have provided Conrad with
the prototype for one of his skipper
heroes. And he was in no way proud of
his trek northward from Rockhampton,
which he made at the head of a party,
celebrating his twenty-first birthday on
the way.
“I should never have done it,” he said
sententiously somewhere well on the first
decade of the twentieth century. “The
darn place is full of politicians and mos-
quitoes.”
He was Harbor Master in Brisbane for
many years.
“Atherton”: Outbreak of war will
bring out a lot of prospectors in the
North and revive some almost dead
mining industries. In 1914 a Toogoola-
wah dairy-farmer made a fine haul by
getting into the molybdenite business on
a large scale. Production in Queensland
last year was only three tons, valued at
£675. It all came from Mt. Perry. Less
than three tons of wolfram was mined.
Rare metals obtainable in the North, in-
cluding the Wolfram at Hatches Creek
(N.T.), should have a new interest from
now onward.
* .*>
“Mataranka”: War or no war, Darwin
determined to hold its Centenary Exhibi-
tion beginning on September 11 —Darwin
Harbor was supposedly discovered on
Sept. 9, 1839. The only hitch so far has
been due to the fact that the Adelaide
River Race Club stepped stealthily in and
pinched Darwin’s racing dates, so that
the centenary race meeting had to be
postponed. However, the old Agricul-
tural Society, relic of the glorious days
of Batchelor and Gilruth, has been
reborn, and exhibits, human and other-
wise, have been steadily drifting in from
places as far away as Alice Springs and
Borroloola. Though what they grow
at Borroloola I can’t imagine. The last
time I was there the only agriculturist
was a Celestial with a market garden.
But they had two fine racing goannas at
the pub.
* /■
“Zedo”: Local authorities have a repu-
tation for being wasteful, squandering
bodies, but there are some in Queensland,
as in N. S. Wales, which show a different
spirit. The councillors of Gooburrum
(Q.) are scratching their heads over a
letter from the Auditor-General pointing
out that they have no business to accu-
mulate a surplus of £2980. In no circum-
stances, says the A.-G., can a shire be
allowed to carry forward reserves. Rate-
payers wear hopeful grins.
* * * *
“J. Want”: Brisbane is the latest city
to consider a housing scheme. Lud
Mayor Jones has an ambitious idea of
“ WHOA—when I tell yer !”
converting land owned by the council
and seized for rates into residential
blocks which will “produce revenue.”
The council has already done something
in that way; the new idea is to make
the cottages modern and model, with
electric cookers, washers and hair-curlers,
supplied by the Electricity Department
on t.p. As if there wasn’t enough t.p.
already!
* * *
“J.E.8.”: Arrived from Darwin, a
long, modest-looking chap who might
give the impression that he is a store-
keeper come to buy his season’s stock.
I have met him on camels and in cars
and padding the hoof, and there isn’t a
man of the N.T. who wouldn’t recognise
him on sight as Flynn of the Inland. In
later years the southern cities have heard
a good deal more of him than formerly.
He has come south to take up his duties
as Moderator-General.
* * * *
“X.T.”: I am wondering how the
plan of a Brisbane motor-bike club 1
to have a good old English barbecue,
with a roast ox, turned out. I remember
a party of loyal British who formed a
similar ambition in a northern mining
town at the end of the Boer War. Super-
vision was entrusted to a richly-accented
old Geordie who hinted that he had been
nurtured on village greens where oxen
were always sizzling beside the maypole.
For days small boys collected firewood,
and the blacksmith was conscripted to
h" n make a giant spit or gallows from
nidKc “ b a a u ,
which the dinner was to be suspended by
wires. Everything went well at the roast-
ing until the chef nervously took. aside
a housewife to ask how long she thought
the job would take. Hastily calculating
on a household basis of 20 minutes to
the pound, she averred that it should be
done in about a month. Almost at that
moment the red-hot wires stretched and
broke and Strawberry’s uncle descended
into Avernus with a bright firework effect,
All hands and the cook hurried to rescue
their meal. It came out looking as if
it had spent a month in the sump of
Hades. But, apart from that, it was all
right, except that it was nearly raw and
the firewood had been good old gum-
tree, which imparted a healthy flavor of
eucalyptus.
* * *
“X.T.”: Boys and girls from Tennant
Creek (N.T.) are having a long-distance
holiday. Their jaunt, under the aus-
y e -r u rhiidrpnV
pices of Toe H
Health Scheme, has taken them 1
miles to Townsville, where they w .
spend three weeks. The youngsters
were packed into a utility truck with
a tilt for the 550-mile journey to Mt.
Isa ; they landed in Camooweal about 48
hours later with an emergency water
truck trailing behind them in case they
“went dry,” and next day hit the rail-
head. The youngest are eight, the eldest
12. Many had never seen the sea.
* * * *
“Tewantin”: The rich little dairying
town of Pomona (Q.) will have cause to
remember the outbreak of war. A fire
started in a cafe about midnight. The
township, though it boasts one of the
finest of the smaller agricultural shows
in Queensland, has only a bucket fire
brigade. Virtually the whole of the busi-
ness centre was wiped out; damage,
about £lO,OOO.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The Prime Minister’s appeal
to the public to give aliens who live
peaceably and loyally the right of em-
ployment and the ordinary privileges of
social life has special application in
Queensland and S. Australia and some
centres in W.A. and N.S.W. Queens-
land’s alien population begins with a
large number of Japanese pearlers in
Thursday Island who are law-abiding
citizens. The sugar districts are full
of Italians. Their second and third
generations are indistinguishable from the
rest of the Aussies, though there are
towns in which the main language heard
is Italian and the shop signs are in
Italian. In the Rosewood and Boonah
and Logan districts, 35 miles from Bris-
bane, there are large German populations
rooted in the rich scrub soil for 70 years.
Marburg and Minden and the surround-
ing country used to look like bits of
Davaria. When the last war broke out a
misguided]patriotism bred some hostility
towards these sound and loyal people,
but it was soon dissipated when the call
f or vo | unteers ca me. In some of those
districts—which were so important in
rurai economy that t h e old “Courier”
use d to publish a German weekly for
their benefit—men of military age
answered the call almost as a body.


WaW&dt Id rum/ijfy /lets/
U , •: - I
mm
: ? V'>l
ggiwl •( V'H ; v
kmmWm ■ j
*« V- *
to * atn '
t try tO .„ .»
•Cate*P ltta
tooV» e, ‘
Cut your fuel costs to the bone
with CATERPILLAR ' Diesel Power
In harvesting, all culti-
vation jobs, in tank
sinking, clearing land
and earth moving, you
will find that you can
do the job far cheaper,
quicker, and with lower
maintenance cost with
a “Caterpillar” Diesel.
“My ‘Caterpillar’ Diesel D 2 is showing me a fuel
saving of over 18/- per 8 hour day,” says Mr. J.
Tooher, a prominent “Caterpillar” Tractor user.
“The D 2 is using heavy diesel fuel costing B%d. per
gallon. Burning 7 gallons in 8 hours, the daily fuel
cost is 5/- per day as against 23/- with my former
kerosene tractor of the same horse power. I believe
that the ‘Caterpillar’ Diesel D 2 is the most powerful
small tractor ever built.”
C AT ERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
DISTRIBUTORS:
West Australia: New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Ptv. Ltd.
Unwin's Bridge Road
St. Peters, Sydney
Victoria & Tasmania: Queensland:
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd. Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.
Collins Street, Melbourne 102 Melbourne Street, Brisbane
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company
Flinders St., Adelaide
Wigmores Limited
Wellington St., Perth
Mail this coupon
to-day
Address to your State Distributor as above.
Please send me, without obligation, literature showing how I can cut my
costs with a "Caterpillar" Diesel.
NAME
ADDRESS..
B 1.39
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
C.R.McW.: “This night our Perth in beauty
doth abound.” No doubt it doth, but that’s
"° TJ'.T “ Sas '
....E.M.R.: Dampening..J.K.: A glimmer.
. ...J.8.: No dying drovers, please... .W.E.P.:
The idea’s moth-eaten, the treatment labored,
....P.M.: Parked her in the w.p.b H.S.:
“Leaves” doesn’t rhyme with “trees”....
T.W.: You don’t do justice to “A Queer
World”... .H.D.8.: “Forward” marching back-
wards... .M.H.: Many poets have written
about “Sunshine after Rain,” but at least
you’re the first to include a paean from a
drying cat... .M.W.: Try a women’s paper....
G. : It has its moments... .M. 8.: “Christ-
mas” is a long way off T.S.: How does
one “tread a beck’ning quest”? J.V.N.:
Might click elsewhere A.S.A.: It’s not
funny A.E.L.: Very slight G.M.D.:
Sentimental A.R.8.: A mechanical jingle.
D.B.O’C.: Full of cliches C.V.: Lame,
J.D.S.: Keep trying, then; but your “be-
lated bee,” “muted hamlet” and “homeward
hymn” all spring from Gray’s “Elegy”
H. St. J.-B. (South Africa): “Nautical Fare-
well” the nearest, and that not very near....
A.A.M.: Your rhymes are dreadful J.C.:
Confused... .L.R.L.: That’s an unpardonable
“did”... .8.N.D.: It’s no use writing poems
about the poems you haven’t written... .G. 8.:
It sags at the end... .R.C.8.: Sounds accu-
rate; that's a 11... .A.E.8.: Sorry to be deaf
to a “Clarion Call from the Unseen”
M.N.: “Roundelay of a Trencherman” is a
pretty thin ration... .P.S.T.: You’ve done
better....H.T.N.: Too long and it doesn’t
finish... .D.C.R.. You 11 need more than that
to ink a cheque... .F.T.N.: No use for plays,
even if they are g00d... .V.R.L.: “These Har-
rowing Days” doesn’t improve them
H.8.R.: Your “broad, smoothly-flowing stream
of existence” drained into the w.p.b. in a few
minutes V.G.8.: A year or two might see
you on the track F.8.R.: It’s one out of the
bag all right, but it should have been kept in
Not a bad W for °l
whjle> but it bolted at the finish... .L.C.D.:
Your beer-vendor is an admirable but impos-
sible figure G.T.W.: Nobody laughed
N.T.D.: Doesn’t ring true L.D-C-: Touched
by “The Betrayal of a Milkmaid... .C.M.F.:
In what moment of despair did you pen that
dirge? ... .8.F.L.: “Drought” won’t relieve
any thirsts... .L.P.E.: A long, long way off
our beat C.R.K.: Lovely stuff for flappers.
....8.G.P.: “What exactly is my trouble?”
It seems to be writing... .H.F.R.: No caves
available for “Neolithic Man”.... J.T.D.:
“Being the faithful record of a dog’s life”
isn’t being a good yarn C.F.1.: The basket
reached up for it L.T.S.: Who told you
that Pilate fiddled while Rome burned?
D.V.E.: Maiden aunts and liverish colonels
are not allowed on the premises C.F.R.:
Nice writing; hang it on a better plot
D.T.J.: Never do that again... .F.L.T.: You
might get somewhere if you come down out
of the clouds... .R.W.N.: “To whom might
1 send this sort of thing?” We don’t dislike
anyone as much as that H.T.R., F.T.,
J.L.R., F.G.D.: They’ve come to the wrong
address.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
rnDDccDr>Kmc\iTc
CUKKESIONDEN IS.
n.M.: Looks like a cactus-bush in convul-
sjons p.M.: Pirate walked plank T.W.:
. F „ TC , .
Among this weeks casualties... .S.T.F.: Line-
work too hesitant, and the jests belong to the
tomb P.E.: Can’t see eye to eye with your
friend who said that it was good enough for us.
D.L.: You are badly in need of lessons ....
J. 8.: Caricatures should be of men in the public
eye. .. .A.P.Q.: Did you draw that one in your
sleep? C.S.: Send the comic strips to a
children’s paper... .A.8.G.: Sorry, but none
of the six impressed us... .W.R.K.: The face
of the clock was all that you got right....
M.A.: Don’t fancy the gents with labels tied
to their lips T.J.: “Fun in the Farmyard”
is nothing to crow about... .H.H.: You'll get
better results if you use - a smoother paper....’
G.H.: The basket claimed them.... A.N- '- T y
to make the picture tell the story; the day
the long-winded gag is over... .N.T.J.: fz
lifeless trio... .E.M.N.: We don't want tnob
corpses on our hands... .R. 8.: No rnarK
for faint indelible pencil drawings.... S.vv..
Boxer was carried out of the ring before tn
end of the first round... .R.A.: Bobby an
his brothers are waiting for you to call tor
them.
A MIXED GRILL.
Vernon H. Treatt, now Minister of Jus-
tice in N. S. Wales, is the fourth Aus l
tralian Rhodes scholar to become a
State Minister. The others were T. A. L.
Davy,, of W.A., who became Attorney-
General, but died untimely, the versa-
tile W. S. Kent Hughes, who was Vic-
torian Minister for Labor, 1934-35, and
has had a dozen years in the State Par-
liament, and R. H. Rudall (S.A.). Treatt
is the only one of the four to have
reached Cabinet rank during his first
term in Parliament. The only other
Rhodes-scholar politician is Frank
Edwards, who has been 18 years in the
Speck’s Leg. Council.
* * * *
“Bohemian”: Maoriland Arbitration
Judge P. J. O’Regan is a sick man. A native
of Charleston, Westland, O’Regan man-
aged to get as far in school as the third
standard, when he had to go to work
on the roads to help his family. But, too
ambitious to remain a laborer, he got
on a newspaper and eventually was
editor of a Reefton journal. That was
a step to politics. On the advice of
an old political opponent, Bob Stout,
O’Regan took up the study of law. He
qualified, and specialised in Maon-
land Labor law, becoming at last the
leading counsel of the Arbitration Court,
of which the Savage Government has
made him President.: Among his radical
views he cherishes a soft spot for the
single tax and a bitter hatred of the
Wakefield theory of colonisation.
* * * *
Archie Menzies and Alec Coppel,
authors.respectively of Under Your Hat
and I Killed the Count, are Melbourne-
born. Menzies is the son of actress
Dorothy Vane, and got his knowledge
of stage technique at first-hand. Coppel
went to Cambridge (Eng.) as a medical
student in 1927. After a couple of years
he threw up medicine for the pen, which
he has pushed in various ways in London
ever since. He'was a Wesley College boy.
* r * *
• “C.R.”: A Melbourne teacher of the
piano with a European reputation got
a new pupil,, a. boy of six, and found
him the makings of a prodigy. The
child had learned the notes of the piano
before he learned the alphabet. He could
play in any key, and progressed with
amazing speed, soon catching up with
pupils twice as old. To give him the best
possible conditions and to fit in with his
own requirements, the teacher considered
it necessary that the boy should be let
out of school three-quarters of an hour
early, and he wrote to the schoolmaster
for permission. The reply was that it
was impossible for the department to
adjust the curriculum to the needs of
incipient geniuses. I don’t suppose Vic-
torian educationists would say they
attach less importance to music than to
arithmetic, but I will eat my hat if the
same answer would be received from,
say, the headmaster of a public school if
he were asked for almost any facility for
a potential head-of-the-river oarsman.
* * - * *
A Communist excuse for the Great
Betrayal is that the Finns refused to be
“guaranteed.” They refused because
they know the Red Russians too well.
They had to experience the horrors of
a Red civil war before they achieved
their freedom, and they have studied the
working of Communism at close quarters
for 21 years. In the result they have
not only rejected Communism but have
outlawed it; no avowed Communist can
enter the-Finnish Parliament, in which
there are eight groups. Finland’s short
way with Communism was the best way.
Communism'never enters a country and
becomes formidable without bringing
calamity there.
* * * *
The story of Victoria’s State coalmine
is one of certain annual losses and un-
certain strikes. Last year expenditure
exceeded-revenue (calculated at £306,000)
by £154,000, and in the previous year the
deficiency was £131,000. Number of
strikes in 1 both years is not on official
record, perhaps because the statisticians
have given up counting them.
* * * *
Lord Curzon was keen on going to
war with the Bolshies in 1918-19. Lloyd
George has explained in his Truth about
the Peace Treaties why his Lordship was
so bellicose:
He was vastly concerned about rescuing
Georgia from the contamination of Bolshe-
vism. He had paid a visit to that region
and had acquired a great admiration for its
gallant mountaineers. The thought of
abandoning them to the despotism of
Lenin and Trotsky filled him with horror,
and he fought to the end for the retention
of British forces m Georgia.
One of those “gallant mountaineers” was
Stalin.
* * * *
“E. 0.”: There has been a competition
in designs for a floral float to represent
the City of Melbourne, and to carry this
country’s queen of beautiful girls, at the
Passadena tournament of roses, to be
held in California next year. Sheila
McCubbin won first and second prizes,
and collected a cheque for £2Q. The
predominating colors of the first float, in
which a kangaroo of rhythmic design
draws the queen and her attendants, are
gum-blossom pinks. Golden wattle is the
theme of the second float. Miss Mc-
Cubbin is a daughter of the late Frederick
McCubbin, of Melbourne’s National Gal-
lery, and a sister of Louis McCubbin,
director of the Adelaide National Gal-
lery.


The liicliardson Chain Hotel
is
l! f !
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
132-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from. . 12/6
'Phone: M 4 141 (10 lines) .
L>
C*S r^ U
A****'’
pS
Lb
IslM*
r
u
J Z
sLvf'-
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Rugging in the Riverina.
“Ghanam”: Two years’ rugging trials
by the C.S. and I.R. at Brae Springs, near
Albury (N.S.W.), have led to the conclu-
sion that under conditions existing there
rugging is uneconomical.
Brae Springs is on the edge of the
wheatbelt. Wool is normally clean. The
stock used consisted of 96 pairs of wether
hoggets, 14 months old, and specially
selected for body- and fleece-weight uni-
formity. One of each pair was rugged,
the other left unrugged.
During the two years of the trial
weather was unusually dry against an
average 26.5 in. rainfall, there was 20.97 in.
in 1936-37 and 17.59 in. in 1937-38.
The classer remarked that the wool
from rugged sheep did not carry the same
dust and waste as the unrugged wools,
which were also thin and lacking char-
acter. The rugged wool seemed to have
greater staple length, showed more char-
acter, was softer handling, more attrac-
tive and gave a higher yield. The C.S.
and I.R. vet., however, differed in regard
to staple—there seemed to him no actual
difference in length, the apparent increase
being due, he thought, to greater density
and lack of tip and dust.
Though in 1936-37 the rugged wool
was valued at less than the unrugged, it
was worth l|d. to 2d. more than un-
rugged last year. At the same time the
yield advantage in unrugged wool was a
mere 1.42 p.c., and in 1938 the mean in
favor of rugged wool was 4.32 p.c. The
change in yield was “attributed largely
to the dust in the unrugged wool.”
There were three shearings. At the
first (Sept., 1936) the average body-weight
of the animals was: Rugged, 55.791 b.;
unrugged, 55.091 b. In September, 1937,
the unrugged and rugged weights were
respectively 89.821 b. and 87.631 b. In
1938 weights were: Rugged, 95.441 b.;
unrugged, 97.261 b. Weight of fleece wool
from last shearing for 84 surviving
animals was 445.021 b. from rugged sheep;
from unrugged, 481.191 b. The total value
of the rugged wool was £55 14s. 3d. and
of unrugged £49 11s. 6d.
Costs in the second year were 100 rugs
at 3s. 6d., which, reckoning the life of
a rug at three years, worked out at Is. 2d.
per annum. It should be possible to
reduce rug costs considerably—those
used cost much beyond the rugs used in
M.L. experiments. However, adding
repairs, labor, small items for destroyed
rugs and for loss of a sheep caught in
its rug, the investigator estimates the
annual cost per 100 sheep at £8 9s. 6d.
and the net loss by adopting the system
at £3 12s. s|d.
The conclusion that rugging is not
economical may or may not be true of
the 17in. to 26in. rainfall country, where
there is little dust or burr, but a lot
more experiment is needed—and with
considerably cheaper rugs—especially in
heavy dust districts, before the idea of
rugging can be discarded. Anything that
generally improves the quality and clean-
ness and staple of wool is worth a thor-
ough trial.
Breeding Out Wrinkles.
“Jumbuck”: Wrinkles can be bred out.
I’ve just seen a mob of plain-bodied
ewes cut a shade over 131 b. wool in
north-west Riverina, and I’ll never be
convinced that narrow-crutch ewes with
corrugations growing into one another
cut an Y more w ° ol (clean-scoured) than
do wide and free-from-wrinkles types,
Wrinkles may grow dense wool of beauti-
M character, but how many flocks of
types wilt average 131 b. per head
ln breeding ewes?
In bad seasons flies will strike any-
where, but the meagre price difference
existing at present between 64 s tops and
70’s-80’s makes the cultivation of the
heavier fleece from the plain-bodied type
a sound financial proposition. It will
take time to breed out the wrinkles, but
if all breeders with narrow, corrugated
sterns are culled, and ram-selection is
judicious, it 11 be an easy matter as time
goes on to keep the flock reasonably
plain-bodied.
“S’posin’ We shift the hut instead, Ma ?”
Lameness in Lambs.
“Bungaree”: In spite of the good
season —perhaps because of it —there
have been large lamb losses in N.S.W.
and Victoria.
Dust is the greatest carrier of germs.
Every attempt should be made to mini-
mise it at lamb-marking, shearing or
whenever sheep are being handled.
Lameness in lambs may be caused by
footrot, arthritis or blackleg. Lambs will
not get footrot unless the ewes are already
affected, and for this reason it is im-
perative to clean up footrot as soon as
it appears in a flock. Lambs a few days
old may get footrot, and if the spring is
warm and moist, as it promises to be in
most districts, footrot will spread rapidly.
Dead and diseased portions of hoof
should be cut away and the sheep stood
in a formalin footbath (1 p.c. formalin
to 20 parts water) for 15 minutes.
Arthritis is caused by a germ which
may enter by the navel shortly after birth,
but more often gains entrance through
marking wounds. Infection is, in most
cases, traced to old or dusty yards for
marking. This type of lameness is dif-
ferent from footrot, as the leg joints swell
and feel hot to the touch. The only treat-
ment lies in opening the abscesses and
allowing them to drain. Arthritis may not
kill lambs, but it will check growth.
Blackleg has been particularly severe
in Victoria. Since inoculation of lambs
against pulpy kidney has become so com-
mon, many deaths following vaccination
which have been put down to entero-
toxaemia have actually resulted from
blackleg. The greatest care should be
taken when inoculating to ensure that
the needle does not scratch or puncture
the muscle underneath the skin.
* , ,« , i„ . .. . •
Attention should be given to the sten-
lisation of lamb-marking pliers and
knives. Sterilise all instruments by boil-
mg for at least 0 minutes before com-
mencing to mark, and dip them occa-
sionally in a strong disinfectant-, rot an
arsenic ip. , ,
Opinion is divided on the advantages
of dressing lamb-marking wounds. Many
dressings are too irritant to do anything
but harm, others form a scab that flies
will blow, while the idea of swabbing
tar into the crutch only renders future
crutching or shearing impossible.
Worm Treatment.
“J.R.D.”: As the nodule or pimply-
gut worm is found chiefly in the crown,
it cannot be reached with a drench
strong enough to attack it after passing
through the various stomachs and small
intestines.
The only satisfactory treatment has
been with sodium arsenite, but this is
slow and difficult —and very dangerous
unless done by an expert.
Now H. McL. Gordon, of the C.S.
and 1.R., has achieved up to 100 p.c.
cures with phenothiazine. Phenothiazine,
a tar product, is a powder. It was given
in two forms —by capsule or mixed
with water. A preliminary dose of blue-
stone was first administered to close the
cesophagal groove and deflect the powder
from the paunch, but it was found that,
while this is effective with liquid drenches,
capsules seem to find their way into the
paunch in spite of it. The dose is ap-
proximately |oz. per sheep, and as the
powder is not toxic it appears, on present
knowledge, to be a safe medium,
However, these experiments are merely
preliminary, and a satisfactory medium
and technique of using the powder have
still to be evolved. The powder is non-
soluble in water, and care would have
to be taken to keep the mixture suffi-
ciently agitated to ensure thorough distri-
bution of the dose. At present sufficient
stocks are not available.
Butter Quality
_ . 2Z y \ .
Yarra : Only 52.5 p.c. of the 96,985
tons of Australian butter exported in the
1938-39 season was ot choicest Kan-
S ar °° The proportion of first
grade was 34.7 p.c. Adverse conditions
u|ed oyer he £ ealer ot the
jn a| , States exc b ept Qu^nsland> but J thjs
presen(ed more difficulties on the farm
& an jn , he factories
, Federal orndines should he of
be ° £
Choic- First Second Pas-
70ns. est . Grade. Grade, try.
Victoria ..24,890 63.9 26.7 8.6 0.8
N.S.W. .. 8,999 70.8 16.2 11.5 1.5
s? 5 3,274 28.2 38.8 302
w. Australia 1,830 4.8 81.8 8.3 5.1
Tasmania .. 2,391 43.2 48.2 8.0 0.6
In 1937-38 58.5 p.c. of the shipments
was choicest, 30.6 p.c. first grade, 8.9
p.c. second grade and 2 p.c. pastry.
Queensland had its record output and
bids fair to become the premier pro-
ducing State. N.S.W., in which home
consumption is practically confined to
the choicest grade, maintains a strong
quality lead, with 91 p.c. of the entire
manufacture marketed or exported of
“Kangaroo” standard.
South Australia and Westralia, the two
States that have stood out of the equalisa-
tion plan, are lagging.
Liquid Manure for Pastures.
“Mookau”: A. G. Elliott, crop experi-
mentalist to Maoriland’s Agricultural
Department, has worked out the general
technique of using normal farm manure
for pasture improvement. On 40 farms
round Taranaki, shed and sty cleanings
form the staple of the fertiliser.
A concrete tank is needed at a safe
distance from the dairy. It is shallow
because this makes for easier mixing and
cleaning. Droppings are washed into the


A SELF-CON TAIN ED SANITARY SYSTEM—APPROVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required-Any Handyman Can Instal £"-»°es Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold—Shell Co., 64 Repeat Orders, Bank of N.S.B.^Xo.
ĵ
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
j
BE COOLTHIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS
IBH
PER PAIR
ĵ
Suit your footwear to the weather. Do away with tired feet in the
Summertime by wearing Sandals. They re serviceable and comfortable,
just the things to wear for coolness and ease. And as they are Abbey
Sandals they will give long, true wear.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
FOLLOW THIS
LINE OFH
c.o*c>
V *°N tfco
I
A/
At"
i
1
M
sss
/
*r
'U
f£>
IONDO-
NI
W/jj
2£vr
'♦'j
*rr r
W
aSTc
D£
®^7
&*v
f»A
cp e
8* APPO«NTM£NT
GENUIN E
LONDON
GIN CAN
ONLY
COME FROM
LONDON
ENGLAND
where
Gordons
in
It maq cost a
little more but
it's WELL worth it!
IS DISTILLED
Stfpw*
HE H EART OF A COOP COCKTAIL
TANQUE RAY, GORDON & CO
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND.
'i]ke LcOigeSt gin dlStillaM in tfu? woiixi
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
4V
hr
o*
Hi
e*-
<%
***
m
«•©
****
*/>
*?*>
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY BRISBANE MELBOURNE ADELAIDE FREMANTLE
/ L 7
Here's good news for farmers,
storekeepers, ironworkers,
builders, plumbers and
tradesmen! A new 1939 edi-
tion of "Lysaght's Referee" —
the most popular reference
handbook in Australia is
out! Packed full of useful,
authentic information, tables,
distances, rates, etc. Write
to-day for your copy sent
free and post free—to the
nearest office of
tank with enough water to move them
from the sheds and yards.
For distribution an iron tank, cement-
painted inside (iron corrodes) and fitted
with a brass tap, is mounted on a sled.
Cost of a cement 1000-gallon tank is
placed at £7 10s., and the rest of the
equipment, including a hand-pump, runs
to about £3O. A 5000-gallon outfit costs
about £6O complete.
One farmer with 135 cows has thus
increased his butterfat from 11,0001 b. to
42,0001 b. in seven years, and there seems
to be no doubt, from the results on com-
parative fertilised and unfertilised strips,
of the advantage of the treatment. •
Australia’s problem in handling farm
manure is more complicated than Maori-
land’s. Paddock-feeding makes the dit-
ference, but a sled with a let-down slide-
back and a broad rake should be good
investments on smaller properties.
, ~ F
Hints for the F *
“B-gar": Its not adyist tble to brand
tender wool AA or A Fleece, as the case
might be ; this description emphasises to
buyers that the wool is tender. Fleeces
often are part sound and part tender, and
then the case is one in which initiative
in assessment is best left to the buyers.
“Hog”: Watch young pigs for white
scour brought about by insanitary sur-
roundings. Don’t allow the youngsters
to root about among droppings. Isolate
the sufferers, and give them a large dose
of castor oil to clean out the bowels.
Scour is infectious, causing severe wast-
ing and eventually death if not checked.
“Canbelego”: Let the calf suck its
mother for the first three days. Give it
whole milk for the first fortnight at least
Mix one to two tablespoonfuls of fresh
cod liver oil in each gallon of skim-milk
fed until the calf begins to eat grass. The
oil replaces the butterfat. Keep the oil
in well-sealed small containers (about a
gallon capacity); don’t let it become
warm or have contact with the air. It
deteriorates rapidly.
“J. Want”: The Queensland “Economic
News” forecasts the best northern season
for years. Except the Julia Creek-to-
Longreach belt, which remains persis-
tently dry, the spring is developing nicely
everywhere. There has been enough cold
to check the blowfly. On the coast, as
in the interior, there is plenty of feed
following a good winter and July and
August rains. Crop districts below the
tropic had an average of from l|in. to
during July. There is an excess of
cane over quota requirements in the
North, and, though the past cotton season
was not good, the promise for next season
is. Inigo Jones predicts late-September
rains, fairly general south of Capricorn,
which should carry on till late November
or early December.
From Norman L. Forster:
In B. 23/8/’39 “Bulago” mentions that,
since most of the stock by an Aberdeen-Angus
bull which was imported to New Caledonia
some flme ago had developed t.b., none of
the breeders there will look at anything re-
sembling a black poll. Tuberculosis is not an
hereditary disease —it is contracted after birth
and the stock would have to be running with
infected cattle or on infected pastures to con-
tract the disease. They may, of course, have
run with this bull and, if he were, tubercular,
have contracted the disease from him, but, ex-
pressed in the way your correspondent puts it,
a wrong impression is given. Most of our
big Aberdeen-Angus studs in N.S.W. are certi-
fied tubercle-free.
“Valerin”: The wet season has caused
a rapid spread of Capeweed over N.S.W.
Introduced into W.A. from Cape Colony
over a century ago, Capeweed is now
found throughout the Commonwealth. As
pasture it is valueless and a curse to the
dairymen. The hot winds dry it up, and
it blows away, leaving the ground bare.
On cultivated areas C.w. chokes out
cereals and fodder plants.
“Yeno Ham”: In eight years F. S.
McQueen, of Lynch’s Creek, Kyogle
(N.S.W.), has raised the production of
his Guernsey herd from 1151 b. of butter-
fat per cow to 2221 b., chiefly as the result
of improved pastures in small paddocks.
McQueen enlisted at the age of 17, was
a baker after the war, and began dairy-
ing eight years ago. He runs 42 cows
on 123 acres, divided into 33 paddocks.
Italian* rye grass (201 b. per acre) and red
clover (51b. per acre) are sown after
ploughing, and lcwt. of super, per acie
is given every year. McQueen grazes 40
cows on most of the paddocks for 80
minutes a day for eight weeks at a stretch,
then changes to another pasture.
“Yeno Ham”: Returns from a 340-
acre dairy farm at Old Bonalbo, N.S.W.
North Coast, owned by Norman John-
ston, totalled £2llO for the year ended
April 30, 1939. In the past three years
production has risen from 20,6291 b. of
butter to 29,9041 b., the average number
of cows milked each year being 82 to 90
Jerseys. In the last year production ex-
ceeded a ton of butter a month except
in July and August, when it was 19901 b.
and 21591 b. respectively.
“J.E.8.”: American cattle journals
show no evidence of the alleged craze lor
polled cattle. The July issue of the
“Texas Cattleman” carries numerous stud
advertisements, mostly Hereford, and
without exception the sires illustrated are
horned. Judging by the Argentine jour-
nals, similar conditions rule there. Plenty
of polled steers, of course, but the time
does not seem to have come yet when
horns are bred out, as a regular practice.
“Observer”: N.S.W. Agricultural De-
partment has carried out milling and
baking tests of typical commercial
samples of Hungarian and Rumanian
wheats. Both are red wheats. Hungarian,
which gave a higher gluten content, is of
the “filler” type, and classed as the best
wheat produced in Europe. In baking
quality the two samples were similar to
the N.S.W. standard, but not its equal
in ease of milling or flour color.
“A.A.D.”: Mitchell, a new wheat
variety of mid-season maturity evolved
at Wagga Experiment Farm (N.S.W.), is
one of the most promising of recent
productions. A cross between Nabawa
and Dundee, it is of superior baking
quality to both parents, the best field and
grain characters of which it combines.
Of medium-strong flour class, the grain
is of lighter color than Dundee. Both at
Wagga and in extensive plots at
Gerogery, near Albury, Mitchell has out-
yielded Ford and Dundee and is re-
garded as a strong prospective rival to
these two standard varieties in the exten-
sive Eastern Riverina and south-west
slopes belt.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are now severely
sub-edited, and competitors who don’t want their names published a rapidly
increasing number—must come in on the same terms as those who are not obliged
to make such a stipulation. “N. 8.,” the winner this week, writes from a Sydney!
suburb. Though many may not agree with him he presents his case well.
Apprenticeship for Youth
While the problem of unemployed
youth is troubling the Parliamentary con-
science, it seems timely to offer a sugges-
tion that might contain the solution. The
whole trouble with lads put off at 18 is
that the old apprenticeship system is no
longer enforced.
If the Government could legislate to
the effect that every youth employed in
factories should be taught a definite
trade, many of our problems would be
solved. Youths leaving school at 16 could
then be employed for a stipulated period
(preferably until 21) and paid a scale of
graduated wages in accordance with their
growing skill. Preferably their appren-
ticeship should be linked to a technical-
college course of some kind, as it is in
engineering and carpentry.
Every fellow worth his salt wants to
learn a trade. It means security, and
security is a good thing for everybody.
Just as the good old stores teach lads the
work of the various departments and
good builders prepare for the future by
teaching their lads carpentry and joinery,
so this method of apprenticeship should
he enforced in the factories. Then we
would have no unskilled youth flung on
the market at an early age, and all the
other problems which result from this
sort of thing would be naturally over-
come.
Apprenticeship is the only way to keep
lads off the street while they are young,
and by affording security for the future
it lays the foundation of marriage and
homemaking. Moreover, under the
present system, it affords the only reason-
able liaison period between schooldays
and the entrance to the labor market in
manhood. Obviously it should be en-
forced for the good of industry and the
individual. —N. B. (N.S.W.).
This Woman Question
Discussing the vexed problem of
women in men’s jobs, Margaret Day (B.
23/8/’39) introduced a few aspects that
are often overlooked by angry males.
There is one point, however, she failed
to note, namely, that the working woman
is almost always a mere opportunist.
There is far too much dangerous non-
sense talked about women’s emanci-
pation, the need for self-expression and
development of individuality. Take the
average “businessgirl,” glorified by the
flapper press. Her vaunted independence
expresses itself in clapping her pay en-
velope on her back, developing “sex
appeal” and gratifying her love phan-
tasies per medium of Hollywood sheiks
and the rich-man-poor-girl themes of her
favorite papers.
Higher up the social ladder we have
“educated” women who read the “right”
books and are so artistic that they simply
couldn’t do a bit of housework. Women’s
organisations are crammed with this
female type who can spout and discuss
about everything under the sun. Capable
women they are called, yet many of them
couldn’t efficiently supervise the clean-
ing of a home or the boiling of an egg.
It is little wonder that the “efficient”
woman —definitely shelved in the process
of becoming efficient —is ceasing to be-
come attractive. Not a few disillusioned
city girls are realising that, while they
might be professional successes, they
have become personal failures. They
slowly begin to understand their false
values and where their neurotic search
for power and happiness is leading them.
Look over any group of working girls
in the home-bound train of an evening.
Did you ever see such tragic frustration
in the older girls? They’re smartly
turned out, of course. Nicely made-up,
too, and assiduously reading some flapper
paper.
Now take any random group of mar-
ried women of the last generation. They
may have their home worries, but how
happier they look. They’ve got something
the smart going-to-business girl hasn’t got
—they’ve got roots. Their life is prop-
erly orientated to a man, a home and
kids. Yet one often hears the single
young things sneering at the housewife’s
domestic outlook.
Despite the fake poise of the city girl
in business, there comes a time when
she has exhausted the emotional possi-
bilities of her working independence:
she gets tired of the daily discipline. It
is then she turns opportunist and casts
around for an easy job for life. She
looks around for the most likely-looking
male who will give her security, a “home
of her own” and all mod. cons.
The tragedy is that too often the not-
so-young working woman in seeking her
escape from the business world after she
has had her “good time” comes to mar-
riage with her old spend-the-lot, Friday-
night outlook. Then the rows start. Mar-
riage is not the escape she expected, and
the provider is not so stimulating as the
heroes she gawked at in the cinema
theatre. The success of the “love-interest”
films and the huge circulations of the
flapper press are reflexes of the frustra-
tion and need for psychological compen-
sation by the city girl in a job.
What is the remedy? A revalution of
women’s essential needs. Certainly
women will not find instinctual expres-
sion in a city job. Higher education will
only give futile accomplishments and a
distaste for domestic life, and final real-
isation that a clever woman is never
missed. Most women learn by sound
instinct what they want for happiness, but
often too late. The lure of the job and
the pay envelope holds them too long,
and they come to marriage botched and
with a business hangover that makes them
unfit to adapt themselves to their true role
of mate and mother. —C. H. (Vic.).
The Less Fortunate Girls
“Quadriparens” (B. 16/8/’39) has
painted for us a picture of a few fortu-
nate girls from a comfortable home who
have never wanted for anything from
babyhood upwards, and who have not
sufficient independence of spirit to insist
on paying their board, even though in
receipt of excellent salaries.
I, and hundreds of other girls, can tell
a different tale. Many of us are country
girls from poor families where there has
never been an abundance of anything
(unless it be children), thrown on our
own resources, friendless and alone, in
the desire to lighten the burden for our
basic-wage-earning fathers.
If we are lucky we find jobs at about
30s. a week. It costs us at least 21s. for
lodging, food (such as it is) and fares.
Our evenings and week-ends are spent,
not in pleasure, but in room-cleaning,
laundry, darning and very often hand-
sewing a few yards of cheap material to
make an extra frock to eke out our
meagre wardrobes.
When we get a rise in wages do we
spend it on permanent waves, pretty
clothes and pleasure? No! We spend it
by enrolling at a business college and
studying every night of the week in an
endeavor to fit ourselves for a decent
salary later on.
In addition, many of us are forced to
the realisation that we will always have
to depend on ourselves alone. Our
charms are not sufficient to attract any
wife-hunting male, for who would notice
the little brown wrens when there are
birds-of-paradise about? Thus we must
study and save every penny in an attempt
to lighten our old age. Not for us the
pretty clothes, expensive clubs, tennis,
golf, cruises and theatres ; our only re-
laxation is reading books from the free
library, and perhaps a cheap seat at a
picture-show once a month. Brown
Wren (N.S.W.).
Sixes and Sevens
This is penned at 10 p.m. on September
3, about one hour after Mr. Chamber-
lain made his fateful announcement in
the House of Commons. It is difficult
correctly to assess one’s reactions at such
short notice, but a few scattered frag-
ments emerge from the whirligig of
emotions.
I am inordinately proud of the fact
that Britain didn’t walk out on Poland.
For, whatever happens now, British honor
is vindicated.
At a time like this Australia cannot
afford to spend 120 millions a year on
government. If ever there was a time
for unification this is it. State Parlia-
ments must go.
The Bulletin has lost none of its so-
called “old-world” sanity. Your paper
warned Britain of the danger of shaking
hands with the Russian Bear. In this
respect it stood quite alone.
If any argument were needed, present
events should serve to warn all peoples
of the danger of handing over the con-
trol of a nation to an individual. The
human machine has not yet reached the
stage when it can command unlimited
power over millions of souls without a
corresponding desire to use the power
tyrannically. Divide the responsibility —
limit it —and you put some sort of a
brake on ambition.
Finally, after many centuries of civil-
ised culture mankind still settles its dif-
ferences with the sword. Is this, then, to
remain a permanent feature of civilised
life? Culture and barbarism can never
be bedmates ; one must eventually oust
the other. That is the issue involved,
and it remains to be seen which will rest
in peace. — W. Lynch (N.S.W.).
Individuality
One of the finest of the ideals upheld
by democratic countries is the ideal of
individuality.
Every man, however humble his sta-
tion, is “someone.” He has a right to be
treated as more than a cog in a machine.
This idea of a distinct personality gives
him pride and the incentive to try for the
better things in life. Unfortunately there
is a tendency in some parts of the world
to rob him of this right. Strangely
enough, too, some men will give it up
willingly.
As an Australian, I feel thankful that
I haven’t been labelled Fascist, Com-
munist, Nazi or the like, but have been
permitted to keep my own identity. I
consider just that as something worth
while. — Arthur Falk (Vic.).
Music for Convicts
A long road in prison reform has been
travelled since Howard began to plead
for the reform of the convict and for the
introduction of humane treatment of con-
victs. Of course, no one but a misguided
fanatic would advocate turning our
prisons into de luxe guest-houses. Only
sadists, however, would advocate un-
necessarily harsh discipline, or the
denial of educational and cultural facili-
ties to those men and women who
earnestly desired to better equip them-
selves to become useful and enlightened
citizens after their release.
In Sing Sing, most famous of the
American prisons, the warden has given
prisoners most unusual facilities to study
music. His experiment has been remark-
ably successful. Sing Sing has a first-
class band, an efficient orchestra and a
large glee club. Prisoners can learn to
play any instrument in the orchestra or
band; also, if they desire, take up the
study of composition. Australia, whose
early contact with convicts was lament-
ably harsh and vindictive, has an oppor-
tunity to emulate Warden Lawes, of Sing
Sing, with some revolutionary changes in
prison methods. Or will our politicians
bother about such sentimental stuff as
prison reform? — Arthur O’Halloran
(M.L.).
World Population
People who stress the point of view of
“World Unity” (such as, for instance, the
undersigned) are frequently thought of as
idealistic bores, or, more boring still,
near-Communists. Yet what other point
of view can one hold in the face of these
figures, quoted by an American biologist,
Professor Raymond Pearl?
Present world’s population, 2105 mil-
lions! Think of it you who were
taught at school that it was a mere 1500
millions! At present rate of growth, one
per cent, per annum, even that huge total
will be doubled in 70 years. World land
area is, roughly, 51,000,000 square miles
—which works out at 41 persons per
square mile. Further, over 57 p.c. of the
world’s land is occupied by under 5 p.c.
of the world’s population. Contrast that
fact with this: just a little over 5 p.c. of
the land area contains 52 p.c. of world
population.
Now, ye isolationists, keep on with
your doctrine of economic nationalism!
Close Australia to all immigration. Hope
and pray for a war on a colossal scale
somewhere other than Australia —for
there are hundreds of millions to be
wiped out if the people of the next cen-
tury are to avoid living in layers.
Do that —or wake up! Australia has
got away with the bacon year after year,
but she simply cannot do it century after
century.—T. J. Palmer (N.S.W.).
Australia and the U.S.A.
I can’t agree with “Donal” (B.
9/8/’39) that “we should take the obvious
example of the U.S.A. and throw open
our gates to the entire white race pro-
vided they are morally and physically
fit.” In the first place, America’s gates
are no longer wide open to all white
people.
Secondly, Australia is not the U.S.A.—
or, rather, does not offer anything like
the vast opportunities for exploitation of
natural resources that America did in
bygone years, when millions of Euro-
peans poured into that country annually.
Thirdly, the history of the United States
does not constitute a very good recom-
mendation for the method of nation-
building advocated by “Donal.” Material
progress has been striking ; but the popu-
lation remains a heterogeneous mixture
lacking the feeling of unity, akin to a
family bond, that exists in each of the
new British nations. A proportion of
aliens is desirable and necessary; but it
must remain relatively small, and the
new blood must be mixed in slowly in
order to obtain a real blend.
Fourthly, national security depends
more upon the courage, unity and mili-
tary preparedness of the community than
upon its mere numbers. The addition of
another half-million to our population
would not in itself make Australia more
secure against invasion; and the unre-
stricted entrance of aliens at the present
time would add serious problems to the
many difficulties which confront us. —
Wusslean (Vic.).
Britons in North China
A way out of the North China affair,
and a feasible one.
Let the British Government transfer all
Britons in the North China area with
their capital, resources and industries en
masse to Australia. Japan to keep the
Yangtze and South China open to inter-
national trade.
Many Britons would be glad to get
away from North China on the terms I
suggest. Australian unemployment would
be relieved and our industries given an
added impetus.
If only red-tape can be overcome, all
this can be done. I know North China
and Japan.—A Colonial Briton
(N.S.W.).
Australian-aided Artists
Great Australian artists who “scold”
the Australian public for alleged lack of
support on their return to our shores
should bear in mind the fact that if it
were not for that same public they would
probably never have got the chance to
go abroad. How many of our singers,
if any, have not been sent to England or
the Continent by funds subscribed by
generous Australians who at the time
they forked out were backing an untried
colt? Students who are fortunate enough
to go abroad on research grants don’t
expect to be supported by public sym-
pathy when they return; they are glad
to earn a reasonable salary by giving
skilled service. If the salaries offered
here are not so high as they might get
elsewhere, they either put up with that
without grumbling or try for a more
highly-paid job overseas. Why should
Australian-born and Australian-aided
artists be encouraged to air their financial
grievances in public? —D. J. G. (Vic.).
The Cinderella Profession
There has been talk lately about the
acute shortage of nurses, and one paper
suggested an inquiry to discover why
nursing is the Cinderella of professions.
Five minutes’ conversation with a nurse
will show that the trouble lies chiefly in
the long working day with its broken
shifts and weary overtime.
The work is not only arduous, exacting
and often unpleasant, but in many hos-
pitals the discipline is so stupidly rigid
that it is irksome to the point of exas-
peration. Days off lost through under-
staffing, or through accidents, epidemics,
etc., are not always made up, neither are
they paid for.
Study is solid, and lectures are given in
time off, leaving little or no time for
recreation, so that, as one nurse pithily
remarked, they are always working,
always tired, always hungry and always
sleepy.—E. P. (N.S.W.).
White-collar Jobs
The “white collar” is not the desirable
thing people, particularly parents, think
it is. I had one once. I was a public servant,
and I hated it. It leaves no room for
individual thought. Because the work is
mostly mental, the administrative
machine in which the worker is caught


moulds his whole outlook and life. The
pay is poor and the hours are no better
than those of the so-called lowly laborer.
Yet so much do parents admire to have
their sons introduced to the white collar
of servility that white-collardom reeks of
misfits. The deadhead of the public ser-
vice we hear so much about is one type
of misfit. And, incidentally, private en-
terprise has some bigger dunderheads
than the public service.
The other type of misfit is the man
whose imagination and ability strive to
overleap the petty but insurmountable
barrier of white-collar convention. The
first type blunders along and dies the
faithful servant in his dotage. The other
gets out from under and takes life on.
Actually, the “sheltered” position of
the man in the white collar is the biggest
curse of the whole vicious system. That
was another thing I learned after surren-
dering my permanent position to pursue
what I wanted.
The system of education is not respon-
sible for the belief that only through the
white collar can ambition be satisfied.
It is just the old, old desire on the part
of the parent to “protect” the child. The
“security” of an “office” job seems to
them one way of fulfilling their function.
If they knew what it meant they’d fight
shy of it—J. E. B. (Q.).
A.B.C. Concerts
There was a time when I used to attempt
to listen to the musicians the A.B.C.
imports from Central Europe through
the medium of the home radio receiver.
I had to give that up, mainly through the
appalling awfulness of the transmissions ;
also because as often as not there was
no means of ascertaining beforehand
what music was to be performed, because
as a rule only the inferior half of a pro-
gramme is broadcast, and because the
broadcasts hardly ever start at their
scheduled time.
So now I roost up in the gallery of
Sydney Town Hall, paying three or four
bob for a seat and sixpence for a beau-
tifully annotated programme, and watch
the A.B.C. heads bustling round making
themselves pleasant to vice-regals, oft
stopping for a cheery word with Sir This
and Lady That, and I suppose I ought
to feel quite uplifted to be able to take
even a very humble part in such a mag-
nificent social spectacle.
I’m told that if they didn't give music
in the form of social soirees the A.B.C.
gentlemen wouldn’t be able to import
all these musicians from foreign parts.
As a listener that leaves me cold. I’d
sooner listen to a proper studio broad-
cast, carefully and intelligently (trans-
mitted, of our own Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, conducted by Bernard Heinze
or Percy Code, or our own singers or
chamber music specialists, than a mangled
din from the Town Hall conducted by
Toscanini and embellished with the voices
of every singer who has ever made a
bow at the N. York Metropolitan. This
“highbrow music” side of broadcasting
isn’t being run for radio listeners. It’s
high time the Federal Government re-
minded the A.B.C. that its function is
broadcasting, not" the organisation of
snob-fests, and told it to get out of the
stage concert business and stay out. —
William Wild (N.S.W.).
The Beginnings of Crime
Add to the causes of criminal youth
(B. 25/8/’39) cheap second-hand cars and
licenses issued to youths under 21. We
cannot now leave our orchard or house
on Saturdays or Sundays when these
irresponsibles speed about the country at
murder rate.
After having our orchard robbed, trees
damaged and house verandah used as a
public convenience, we spoke to one lot
seriously. They told us to shut up or
they’d shoot. We handed them over to
the police. Not one was 19.
They often carry guns of some de-
scription in spite of the fact that this
area of the Brisbane River is a sanctuary.
They are always accompanied by shriek-
ing girls who are as indifferent to all
suffering of birds and animals and are
as devoid of the ordinary decencies of
life as the youths themselves. — Farmer
(Q-).
Don’t Tax the Bachelor!
In the pages of a current women’s
magazine I find a well-written article
proving not only the advisability but the
absolute necessity of introducing a
bachelor tax in order that an end will
come to the “bachelor’s selfish ease,”
making him “help those who marry and
provide their country with children.”
It all sounds very plausible, and it
goes down famously with the myriad
husband-seekers who lend support to the
cause. But if these same h.-seekers
stopped for a moment’s thought they
would become founders and life mem-
bers of a Don’t Tax the Bachelor League.
They would realise that throughout Aus-
tralia there are thousands of would-be
husbands whose laudable ambition fails
to reach fulfilment only through lack of
funds. These gentlemen find marriage a
difficult proposition on their mediocre
salaries, and saving for a home, furniture
and possible family additions a terrific
drain on their resources. Romance can
become a very ugly thing when blighted
by the economic canker, and taxing the
bachelor is going to have the immediate
result of making the economic factor an
insurmountable barrier to saving for a
home. The flappers won’t have husbands
at all, and Australia won’t have popula-
tion.
To a country which needs population
as we need it, two things are necessities
—a substantial marriage bonus and a
generous scheme of child endowment.
Introduce these and there will be no
need for a bachelor tax —because there
won’t be any bachelors left. —Pip (Vic.).
Australian Seamen
People seem to have suddenly become
aware that Australian coastal vessels are
manned largely by foreign seamen, and
attribute this to a lack of sea-mindedness
in Australians. Yet if anyone cared to
inquire at the shipping offices he would
find a chronic surplus of boys offering
for sea service—but no jobs.
In the days of sail, when A.Bs. were
paid £2 10s. to £2 15s. per month and
fed at a cost of 9d. to Is. a day, the
crews of British ships were, with rare
exceptions, mostly foreigners. Born to
discipline and a low standard of living,
they were more tractable, and would
stand more injustice, stinking pork and
maggoty biscuits than Britishers. They
were, therefore, more popular with ship-
owners and many ship masters; also,
by mixing the nationalities, collusion or
unity for the betterment of their con-
ditions was prevented, and a cheap labor
market assured for the owners. The
tramp steamer displaced sail, with the
conditions for. sailors a little better.
Came the Great War, when British sea-
men became scarce. After the war
British Channel ports were so full of
negroes that masters were compelled to
ship 50-50 black and white, and these
men were berthed bunk for bunk in the
same fo’c’sle. Now war is with us again,
and the British Government is subsidising
the owners to carry British seamen.
The Australian shipowners, on a better
wicket still, while they must carry union
seamen, need not carry one Australian
in their ships. What are Australians
going to do about it? And where is
Earle Page going to get crews for his
battle-fleet? Australian seamen may be
less tractable and too prone to be
wrongly led into making trouble when
they imagine their rights are involved
than some others, but I fancy the public
would like to know they manned Aus-
tralian ships now that the gong has been
sounded. —Old Sailor (N.S.W.).
A Modern Necessity
Perplexed moderns often wonder what
is wrong with the world these days, and
in seeking unsatisfactory solutions fail to
understand that what is necessary is a
revival of Christianity. Now, now, Mr.
Editor, calm yourself and refrain from
flinging this into the w.p.b., for this isn't
going to be a religious discussion at all,
but just a plain statement of an obvious
fact.
The world has gradually become too
clever, scientific, cynical and individual-
istic, and in many ways scoffs at Chris-
tian principles, the result being chaos,
unhappiness, fear and a widespread feeling
of insecurity. Look carefully among
people of all ages, types and creeds and
you will find that the happiest are those
who follow a Christian life. Narks and
hypocrites are at times found among
them, but, on the whole, they are finer
and more worth while than those who
are too up-to-date to develop the spiritual
side of their nature. People are very com-
plex, and at heart very timid, and they
need the soothing reassurance and cour-
age that Christianity alone can give them.
We do not need any hysterical or
bigoted revival, but simply a return to
a spirit of faith, tolerance and brotherly
love. During his busy life King George
V. found time to read a little of his Bible
daily—a gesture of wisdom and common-
sense that every one of his subjects could
profitably copy.—P. Radwon (Vic.).
Vocational Guidance
“Petermac’s” grouch against vocational
guidance apparently is founded on an
individual unfortunate experience. One
Queensland Government department
actually picked two lads for mechanical
work by means of practically the same
test described by “Petermac.” Both boys
turned out exceptionally well. —B. (Q.).
Unemployment
For two years my brother-in-law had
been out of a steady job. He kept the
wolf from the door by odd-jobbing at
eight shillings a day, averaging about 3i
days a week, and cycling miles to do it.
My sister kept two or three boarders,
which had to be given up when the baby
came. Her letters were always gay, but,
knowing that there could not be a great
deal after the rent was paid, I wondered.
Then I went to town. They had sold
most of the furniture and were on relief
—but I had to guess that. Winter was
on us, and winter is a bad time for em-
ployment. There was a Government job
starting in our district, and I applied for
a job for my brother-in-law. It was open
to unemployed—returned soldiers first
preference, married men with children
second, then single men. Preference to
local men naturally, and no man could
be put on who was not registered with
the local unemployment bureau.
It was caps over the windmill. They
gave up their house, sold the rest of the
furniture and, with a little help from
friends, came here —and he started work
the next week.
If it hadn’t been for me he would not
even have known of it. Isn’t this the
solution of the unemployment problem
—that we should see the unemployed not
as abstract problems but as men and
brothers?— Kultahna (S.A.).
Inflation
I can’t altogether agree with the views
of H. Lake (B. 2/8/’39) on the sticky
end which awaits Australia if it continues
its present inflation policy. In France in
1916 we got 30 francs for an Aussie note.
Now we should get 140, and France is
still going strong. There are very few
countries which have not taken since the
great depression a small dose of inflation
for their trade’s sake. If the Australian
pound were brought to par with the
British pound as H. Lake desires, it would
be the last straw for very many of our
farmers. They are able to export at a
profit simply because they are paid in
British currency, which is worth 25 p.c.
more than our money.. It is the only
kind of help they get. The manufac-
turers not only have this exchange
benefit, but are protected by tariffs and
the cost of carriage from any competing
country.
As to H. Lake’s card illustration, it
won’t do. There is a standard pack of
cards in general use, but the gold stand-
ard has been abandoned almost com-
pletely. Perhaps inflation could be best
compared with a powerful drug which, if
administered under expert direction, acts
as a beneficial tonic, but is deadly if
used to excess. An individual’s lOUs
and promissory notes are accepted just
so long as his creditors are convinced
that he can meet his commitments. Once
their suspicions are aroused he’s for it.
The same holds good for nations. Aus-
tralia has not yet failed its creditors, so
the small dose of inflation has done it
no harm. — West Riding (Vic.).
Capital Punishment in N.S.W.
Once again N.S.W. public opinion is
sharply divided on the question of capital
punishment. After a calm and unpreju-
diced survey few will challenge the right
of the State, legally or morally, to exact
the supreme penalty from one who has
been justly condemned according to law.
It is the haphazard and inconsistent
manner in which this right is exercised
in N.S.W. that causes disquiet and fosters
mistrust. The Executive Council orders
hanging in some cases and life imprison-
ment in others, every bit as brutal.
A man’s life should not be the play-
thing of whatever brand of politicians
temporarily occupies the Government
benches. The courts of justice should be
the final arbiters, not Executive Councils.
Queensland and Victoria are at least con-
sistent, though in varying ways. Queens-
land officially abolished capital punish-
ment in 1922, though in point of fact it
is 26 years since an execution took place.
Victoria nominally follows the N.S.W.
system of leaving the final decision to the
Executive Council, but in practice, un-
less insanity is proved, the law takes its
course.
Personally, I believe it is not so much
the principle as the methods employed
to carry out capital punishment that
cause so much dissension. Hanging and
the guillotine are survivals of barbarism.
Death by electrocution or in front of the
firing squad is less revolting. But if the
death sentence is to be retained, Parlia-
ment should adopt the proposals put
forward by the Anglican social commit-
tee under the chairmanship of Bishop
Moyes. They desire that the condemned
person should be given an overdose of
some anaesthetic and so painlessly and
humanely removed. After all, we give
an unwanted dog or cat this much con-
sideration.—Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Wanted: More Narks
Our world-famous easygoing nature
has landed us with more inefficiency ana
bungling than most nations would
tolerate. From amateur trials, where
we give the dud act a hand out of sym-
pathy (and thereby perhaps launch it
on a career), to public life, where our
highly-paid Parliamentarians attend their
jobs if they feel like it, we quietly suffer
in the sacred cause of “Fair go, Dig!
G.B.S. said: “The reasonable man
adapts himself to the world; the un-
reasonable man persists in trying to
adapt the world to himself. Therefore,
all progress depends on the unreasonable
man.”
Our name for Shaw’s “unreason-
able man” is “nark,” yet it seems to me
Australia could do with more narks with
the courage and determination to attack
what seems wrong and wasteful in public
life. If he honestly believes himself
actuated by a desire to stop abuses of
democracy the nark can be a better citi-
zen by protesting than his placid “good
fellow” neighbor who can’t be bothered.
The latter and the thousands like him
will go on letting smart Alecs “put it
over them.” Overlapping Governments
and their departments, high-handed
boards and commissions and their re-
strictions, the handing-out of adminis-
trative jobs to burnt-out politicians by
their colleagues in office these and
other rackets will continue and prosper
while the reasonable men outnumber
the narks. —R. H. A. (W.A.).
The A.N.T.A.
Concerning the activities of the Aus-
tralian National Travel Association, I am
still very sceptical on the subject of “per-
manent arrivals, including army officers,
civil servants and other persons of
means,” coming, according to Australian
press reports, from India. In 1937 this
association informed the world through
the medium of the Melbourne “Herald”
that it had persuaded 2000 army officers
and civil servants to become wild colonial
boys, but, unfortunately, something hap-
pened between India and Australia, and
they never arrived.
“Apart from selling travel, the
A.N.T.A. has created overseas an outlook
favorable to the buying of Australian
products,” said Melbourne “Argus” re-
cently. I would like it recorded that it
is not one of the Travel Association’s
functions to create an “outlook favor-
able to the buying of Australian pro-
ducts,” and it is a pity the association
is carrying out this work of supereroga-
tion, and giving the idea that it is a
Government department, which it is not.
Its one and only duty is to sell Australian
travel and residence to the countries
where it operates, and for which the
Commonwealth Government gives its
grant of £20,000 per annum. It has no-
thing whatever to do with trade. —
Salaam Koala (Calcutta, India).
Quality or Quantity
Some time ago I was impressed by a
first novel by an Australian writer. It
had freshness, sincerity and the charac-
terisation was sound. The other day I
read the second novel. It was slick and
unconvincing. It was artificial. The
writer, I saw somewhere, boasted that he
wrote so many chapters a day.
Some time ago I was impressed by a
young Australian radio-dramatist. His
first serial had originality, warmth,
human interest that was not full of senti-
ment. The other day I listened to the
forty-fourth episode of—shall I say “The
Crimson Bloodstain”? It was written
by the same young man. He is an ace.
He is slick. It was rotten.
Some time ago I used to go to a
fashionable dentist. He worked quickly,
too quickly. He was stuck for time. I
changed to an obscure, painstaking
youngster. He saved my teeth —what
was left of them.
. Speed can be either a stimulant or a
narcotic. It is a stimulant when it whips
the lagging artist to a facility that en-
ables him to create without conscious
effort. But there is a danger. When the
critical faculties are dulled by overconfi-
dence or lack of time, then speed be-
comes superficial slickness, resulting in
insincere and artificial workmanship.
It seems, in this present-day world, that
what we have to deplore is not the speed
of present-day life, but the slickness
which is only a dodge to shirk the re-
sponsibilities that go with it. In other
words, the writer, the radio-dramatist or
the dentist or whoever it is cannot stand
the pace unless he leaves something
behind. And since it is not human nature
for the successful young man to remain
behind himself, his only alternative is to
sacrifice quality in order to continue in
a joy-ride with quantity. —D. G. (S.A.).


“A one-o'clock in the morning memory
Major-General Sir F. Maurice,
K.C.M.G., C. 8., said about
Pelmanism:—
‘'Pelmanism unquestionably
does train the eye and mind
together to recall automatically
all that comes within the range
of vision. But the greatest value
of the Pelman System appears to
me to lie especially in its power
to produce a one-o’clock-in-the-
morning memory. I have known
of the Pelman System for some
seven years. I have served both
before and during the war with
many who have followed it, and
it is this particular characteristic
of its training which has struck
me most. To any officer respon-
sible for the lives and welfare of
men, a memory which works in-
stantly and automatically when
roused suddenly from a short
and insufficient nap, or when the
brain is numbed by fatigue and
want of sleep, is a priceless
possession.”
The outstanding qualities
developed by Pelmanism are:—
Observation Self-confidence
Concentration Self-control
Decisiveness Initiative
Judgment Purpose
And a Reliable Memory.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London. The Mel-
bourne branch has been established
over 30 years, There are over half
a million world Pelmanists, of whom
over 40,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
Pelmanism
1914 and 1939
P\URING 1914-18, the Pelman Institute, in London and throughout the
Empire, made a real and important contribution to the efficiency of the
nation. The value of Pelmanism as a training in personal efficiency was freely
acknowledged by leaders in the military and naval forces, as well as by those
carrying out the highly responsible civil work which the exigencies of the
time demanded. During the Great War, no fewer than 160 Admirals and
Generals studied the Pelman Course, and their example was followed by
more than thirty thousand other officers and men throughout the services.
And as good as Pelmanism was in 1914-18 it is very much better in 1939.
Added knowledge and experience have made it so.
Level Heads in a Crisis
HPHE success of Pelmanism as a personal training is due to the amazing
adaptability of the Course to the particular needs of the individual,
whatever his circumstances. To-day there is an obligation upon every man
and every woman to make the maximum comtribution to the task which the
Empire has undertaken. There is a demand for organising ability, clearness
of vision, concentration and the ability to resist distractions; there is, above all,
a need, such as has never before been felt, for level-headedness and resource-
fulness. The Pelman discipline establishes self-confidence, quickens the per-
ceptions and promotes personal initiative. This is what Major-General Sir
F. Maurice, K.C.M.G., C. 8., had in mind when he said: “Pelmanism
produces a one-o’clock-in-the-morning memory.”
We shall he glad to send you a copy of "The Efficient Mind,”
76 pages, post free. You can write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using or copying the form below.
In any case, your inquiry will be regarded as a confidential
communication. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and
Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street),
Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
The Services
Members of the Army, Naval
and Air Services are invited
to indicate the fact in their
communications to the
Institute.
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free,
copy of “The Efficient Mind."
NAME
ADDRESS
99
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
j
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.J
BARKERS
" D BITERS
Kfrtjgmjk
256 Pages
(illustrated).
The Australian Cattle-dog,
the Kelpie, the Barb,
Bush Greyhounds, Fox-
terriers and many
others in this
splendid book
on Dogs.
Now reduced
to 2/2
(post
free).
Sts'
s'^oS'* K °J 0^
*\<' .•••■ .••• ..••■>
,^V' 6 • ••••■■■ •••-".-^
<*V ‘ *
/
*s?'* s e >
# s


SPECIAL WAR NEWS
Direct From Overseas and Local Stations
LONDON PARIS THE CONTINENT can be received
perfectly on the new MULLARD LUXURY MODEL (61).
This DUAL-WAVE CONSOLETTE receiver is something
entirely different, which can only be appreciated by seeing and
hearing it for yourself. Only then will you realise that all
the latest developments in the manufacture of Radio Receivers
have been incorporated in the making of this new Mullard release.
■
THE MULLARD Luxury MODEL 61
•v ' ' • ■
*
The MULLARD Luxury Model 61
(A.C. ELECTRIC MAINS) 19 GnS.
The MULLARD Luxury Model 62
(BATTERY OPERATION) 23 GnS.
(VIBRATOR POWERED) 28 GnS.
tor
STOP-PRESS
LATEST REFRIGERATION NEWS
During the coming warm and sultry
weather your [refrigeration worries
can be eliminated by purchasing
“THE SNOW QUEEN.”
THE SNOW QUEEN
(An Emmco Product)
ELECTRIC REFRIGERATORS
ALL COLORS.
PRICES RANGE FROM
£52/15/-
RING—CALL— OR WRITE
FOR
FURTHER PARTICULARS
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTORS FOR N.S.W.:
BLOCH and GERBER Ltd.
WITH WHICH IS ASSOCIATED
THE WELDON ELECTRIC SUPPLY Co.
46 -46 YORK ST. SYDNEY
’Phones: MA6291
(10 lines).
