

.
- '
*
a
ipr <*§*
. -«-r*
|jpUK*
Ei?§
S"
i':! :>
n
feS*
■
■
■
jjgg/:
■bßßßbhh
>
Exclusive suppliers
to N.S; W • Govern-
ment and Sydney
County Council.
4
k
s •
ERG DISTRIBUTORS:
Victoria KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, Melbourne,
C.l.
South Australia .. DAVID L. PRESCOTT, 91 Flinders
Street, Adelaide.
Queensland .. .. H. J. TOLHURST, Factory Repre-
sentative, Box 1731 W, G.P.0.,
Brisbane.
Tasmania .. .. .. DAVIES PTY., LTD., Launceston.
New Caledonia .. HAGEN FRERES, Noumea.
New Zealand .. BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFAC-
TURERS, LTD., 436 Broadway,
Newmarket, Auckland, S.E.I.
Fiji ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEER-
ING CO., Suva.
ERG BATTERIES
PTY. LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney
eel owners
Truck men . . . Taxi drivers and thousands of motorists throughout the
iroosrv a ‘ endorse ERG popularity
LOCAL c; “ i ‘ ■
you, too, can buy an ERG BATTERY from your
The Bulletin
Read “The Other Fellow's Mind”: pages 49, 50
Vol. 60.—N0. 3080.
Wednesday, February 22, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
The Red Page
THE PURPLE AND GOLD.
The stories of many units of the A.I.F. have been
written with varying degrees of merit under the author-
ship of men who helped to make them ; one lately
published—that of the 30th Battalion —takes a high
place in this class of literature.
Lieutenant-Colonel Harry Sloan, the regiment’s
first adjutant, has done his job exceptionally well, and
Ihe Purple and Gold —so titled from the battalion’s
colors—is a contribution to the history of Australia’s
share in the Great War that should interest almost
quite as much the reader who had nothing to do with
the battalion as any of its old members. Colonel
Sloan, though he classes himself as a “compiler” and
not an “author,” has written a fluent and well-con-
structed military narrative, full of stories like this one
about when the battalion was being inspected in Syd-
ney by the Governor-General and the District Com-
before it sailed. The 6ft. 3in. of the left-hand
man of “C” Company attracted their attention.
‘Here’s a fine sample of a Cornstalk,” remarked
Colonel Wallack to Sir Ronald Munro-Ferguson as
they approached him.
“And what part of Australia do you come from?”
inquired his Excellency.
From County Kerry, sorr! ” was the reply.
The battle honors of the 30th are Fromelles,
Polygon Wood, Amiens, Morlancourt, Bapaume,
Passchendaele, Wytschaete and Bellicourt, and this
mere list of names is eloquent enough of the battalion’s
active service, but what happened to it before, in be-
tween and after those bloody engagements is well
told. The unit came into being at Liverpool (N.S.W.)
on August 5, 1915, under the command of Lieutenant-
Colonel J. W. Clark, and sailed on November 9 for
Egypt, where it landed on December 11. Six months
later it went on to France, and from then until the end
of the war, as part of the Bth Brigade, it acquitted
itself in such a fashion as to merit what Major-General
Tivey, its Brigadier, says in a foreword to the book:
From the Battle of Fromelles, where our troops
showed superb gallantry in face of one of the greatest
ordeals of the war, until the breaking of the Hindenburg
line, the Bth Brigade took part in most of the great
battles on the Western Front, and the 30th Battalion
has every reason to be proud of its fine record of
service.
The battalion’s career in France is faithfully
recorded; the lighter side dealt with as well as has
been done in any similar volume relating to the A.I.F.
Nearly half the book is made up of contributions from
members of the battalion, some of which, besides
being good stories, are notable little bits of literature.
One of them, relating to his baptism of fire, is by
R. E. Lording, who has published his own recollec-
tions in There and Back. This was Lording’s first and
last experience of the front line under fire—he sur-
vived somewhere about eight hours—but his subse-
quent career in hospitals must surely be record-break-
ing. Still going strong after 53 operations, he has part
of his spine preserved in spirits. If Lording is a fair
sample of the 30th Battalion, Australian Imperial
Force, the 30th must indeed have been a tough lot.
J. H. M. A.
Life of Edgar Wallace.
Margaret Lane’s Edgar Wallace : The Biography'
of a Phenomenon. (Heinemann) is a remarkable piece
of literature and a human document—a beautifully
balanced piece of work, touched, very lightly, with
irony. It tells the story of a man who succeeded and
failed, who met the world on its own terms and
perished of his own momentum.
Richard Horatio Edgar Wallace was the illegiti-
mate son of an obscure actress, Polly Richards. His
father was a character actor and his grandmother an
actress-manager famous for her impersonations of
Hamlet. The name Wallace was an invention of his
mother’s as one more device to hide his identity
when, at a week old, she handed him over to the
respectable wife of a fish porter and disappeared out
of his life except for the weekly payment of five
shillings which she kept up for two years.
The boy grew up in Billingsgate, left school at
12, sold papers and drifted from job to job. At
15 he signed on a Grimsby trawler as cook, and
became at once very unpopular with the crew, partly
because he couldn’t cook and partly because he out-
raged their superstitions by bringing a paper of pins
aboard. He deserted ship at the first opportunity, and
worked on a milk run, seeking his entertainment in
temperance societies.
At 18 he joined the army and began to find his
feet. He distinguished himself writing topical jingles
for the canteen concerts. He sent one of his rhymes
to his favorite music-hall star and had the supreme
joy of hearing it sung from the London stage. He
broke barracks and went five nights in succession to
hear it. The taste of discipline when he returned
sobered him for some time:
Drafted to South Africa, he made a small reputa-
tion as a Tommy poet, and a set of his verses, wel-
coming Kipling—in Kipling’s own vein—was printed
in the “Cape Times.” He visited the house of a
Methodist minister, where he improved his manners
and his English and fell in love with one of the
daughters, Ivy Caldecott. When her father was for-
bidding him the house he shouted to her, “As I won’t
be seeing you again, Ivy, I’d better ask you to marry
me now. Will you?” And Ivy agreed under the
very nose of her enraged parent.
They had nothing to marry on. Edgar deter-
mined to buy himself out of the army—on borrowed
money—and set himself up as a poet. No sooner had
he done so than the Boer War broke out, and he got
a job as one of Reuter’s correspondents. A couple
of scoops and a deluge of racy, humorous articles got
him a foothold in Fleet-street. He returned to Eng-
land with Ivy and a job on the “Daily Mail.” Things
went well until he involved his paper in a £5OOO libel
action and brought ridicule upon it by another ill-
judged article. He was dismissed, and no other paper
would employ him with his reputation for reliability
gone. There followed an interlude of misery, debts,
bailiffs and despair.
On the suggestion of an editor he used some of
his African experiences in a serial, “Sanders of the
River.” It was a success. He began to pour forth
serials —and sold the book rights for £5O apiece. He
was making a living at the expenditure of immense
energy. He worked his way back into Fleet-street,
wrote theatre and racing notes, did some jobs of edit-
ing, discovered that there was money in royalties, was
discovered by a publisher who realised his possibilities,
began to earn big money and build up the Edgar Wal-
lace legend. He lived with immense zest, filling his
days with work and pleasure and living always beyond
his income. He broke into playwriting and had some
sensational successes and failures. He tried to break
into politics and was badly defeated.
At 56 he attacked the scenario industry in Holly-
wood, but he was at the end of his tether. The strain
of writing 150 books in 27 years—all his own work,
despite the persistent rumor of a fiction factory and an
army of ghosts—of writing, directing and financing
numerous plays, of producing a constant stream of
articles on all subjects for a great diversity of journals, -
of constant juggling with his rickety finances had
worn him out. The heavily-sweetened cup of tea which
he drank every half-hour of his working day com-
pleted the ruin of his health. He was diabetic and
didn’t know it. Irritability and the will to dominate
ruined his home life. He was sick and desperate when
he went to Hollywood, and there, after two months
of work and disappointment, he died. Despite an
income that had touched £50,000 a year he was
£142,000 in debt.
The man’s character emerges from his story and
is a medley of inconsistencies. He had an insatiable
appetite for work, yet was so lazy physically that he
couldn’t be induced to walk a hundred yards, even
when his health depended on exercise. He loved dis-
play and could be spectacularly generous, though often
mean in small matters. He loved his children pas-
sionately, but was capricious in his favoritism. (He
went through the gesture of disinheriting his eldest
son because he competed in a sports event against his
father’s wish.)
In all his ventures he was an imperturbable loser,
but he was so vain about his literary reputation that
the least criticism threw him into a rage, and the
praise even of an office boy was pleasing to him. He
thought the world was his oyster and that he was in-
fallible. He was both sensitive and obstinate, kind
and unreasonable. He was satisfied always with the
outer husk of things. He had no politics, no religion,
no philosophy. He wanted success and only success.
His life was without core. Of his gifts Margaret Lane
says in a masterly summing up:
The small flame of his genius had never been allowed
to burn steadily and in peace; it had been fluttered and
blown upon by necessity, by spendthrift carelessness, by
ambition and greed, until its strength was scattered and
the flame itself noisy and uncertain. Genius there was,
of a shallow and attractive order, but too much had
been demanded of it; it had been spread as thin as
varnish over the limitless surface of his work. This end-
less spinning out of the stuff of creation had been
exhausting, but at the same time it had brought its own
reward, for his genius, such as it was, had in the process
cast its skin and been transformed. It had become,
simply, a genius of achievement.
This is a study in mass production, a delicate
balancing of success in living against outward success.
Wallace is not debunked ; Margaret Lane is too subtle
for that. He is not exhibited as a Nero or a curiosity.
His life is set forth with simple clarity and speaks for
itself. The man’s failures are driven home, but all
the human values are there and all the people involved
in his life—his two wives, his Children, his friends and
servants—are given true value. The quality of the
biography is independent of its subject. It is the all-
round view of a human being written from the van-
tage point of a steady philosophy.
Steinbeck Short Stories.
John Steinbeck’s Of Mice and Men, published
about two years ago, has been filmed, dramatised for
the stage, translated into six or seven languages, and
come into recognition as a classic American short
novel. Apart from the fine artistry with which its
story is handled, it is informed with a human warmth
that kindles a response in the reader. The stories in
The Long Valley (Heinemann), Steinbeck’s latest book,
are set, like the novel, in Salinas Valley, in central
California, and are closely related to the novel in
kind and quality.
Steinbeck, like Henry Lawson, seems to live in
his work, giving the impression that he is part of the
life of which he writes. At his best, again like Lawson,
he conceals the art of the storyteller, and seems to be
making a direct transcript from life. That pleasant
deception was part of the charm of Of Mice and Men,
and, while he can occasionally be heard making a
story in The Long Valley, he mostly succeeds in
appearing to relate a yarn that just happened to be
lying around waiting for some perceptive person to
pick it up.
He gets this effect admirably in “The Harness,” a
story of a naturally slack farmer who was kept in the
path of sound husbandry by a wife whose rule over
him continued after her death. There are sound
psychology and a deal of humor in the spectacle of
Peter Randall, in the months following the funeral,
trying to let things slide but being nagged into rectitude
by a tongue that now exists only in his imagination.
“The Vigilante,” “Johnny Bear,” “The Murder”
and The Raid” are also among those that succeed in
giving the effect of being told casually. The first deals
with the emotional processes of a man who took part
in a lynching. His feelings are paralleled throughout
by some previous experience which he cannot identify
until he reaches home and his wife makes a totally-
unexpected accusation. “The Murder” deals with the
difficulties encountered by an American rancher before
he comes to real understanding with his young Slav
wife. It is a sample spoonful from the melting-pot.
“The Raid” deals with labor troubles and exhibits the
same penetration that Steinbeck showed in his novel
In Dubious Battle. “Johnny Bear” tells of a half-
witted mimic given to spying on people and re-enact-
ing the result of his observations in a public bar. The
pathos of his final revelations overrides the essential
sordidness of actor and audience.
Steinbeck needs few words with which to sketch
a physical likeness. A small, middle-aged bartender
in a fourth-rate pub had “a melancholy moustache
and an expression like an aged mouse, wise, unkempt
and fearful.” Nor does he need a great deal of
material with which to weave a yarn. At the end of
“The Chrysanthemums,” for instance, a farmer’s wife,
driving to town, sees dumped by the roadside some
garden plants which she had pressed upon a new
acquaintance in an expansive moment. The blow to
the heart is as real as if the author had dealt in vol-
canoes and sudden death.
Not strictly relevant to the merit of Steinbeck’s
work, but certainly part of its charm for Australian
readers, are resemblances to Australian scenes and
human types. His farmers don’t live with their faces
eternally bent to the soil, and his farmhands are more
or less foot-loose men who have been places and seen
things. When he says of a stubble paddock on a distant
hillside, on a dull day, that it looked “like very pale
sunshine,” it is seen in the Australian imagination with
no effort at all; and when he says “The Salinas River
ran dark water, flowed for a month, and then subsided
into green pools again,” it seems very natural.
There is a familiar ring about this also:
When a man from the Salinas Valley goes to San
Francisco on business or for a vacation, he takes a
room in the Ramona Hotel. This is a nice arrange-
ment, for in the lobby he can usually find someone
from home. They can sit in the soft chairs in the
lobby and talk about the Salinas Valley.
At all times Steinbeck is strong on the homely
touch.
Bertrand Russell on Power.
In Power: A New Social Analysis (Allen and
Unwin), Bertrand Russell cuts history into long strips.
His book is an analysis of power through the ages.
He dissipates the illusion that the present world situa-
tion is unique, and shows it to be just a slightly dif-
ferent combination of factors that have always been
present in varying degrees.
He takes power strand by strand and works out
its historic graph, tying at last all the strands into the
knot, that is to-day.
Tn the course of this book I shall be concerned
to prove that the fundamental concept in social science
is Power, in the same sense in which Energy is the
fundamental concept in physics.
The main forms that power takes are the priestly
power, the kingly power, naked power—by which he
means force unsupported by the consent of those to
whom it is applied—revolutionary power, economic
power, propaganda and creeds considered as motive
forces.
Although the book is mainly historical, and so
descriptive and explanatory rather than political,
Russell leaves his reader in no doubt as to where he
stands. He is a constitutional Liberal.
There is no hope for the world unless power can be
tamed and brought into the service, not of this or that
group of fanatical tyrants, but of the whole human
race, white, yellow and black, Fascist and Communist
and democrat; for science has made it inevitable that
all must live or all must die.
Of economic power in the democratic States he
says:—
Let us consider the power of the plutocracy in a
democratic country. It has been unable to introduce
Asiatic labor in California or Australia, except in the
early days in small numbers. It has been unable to
destroy trade unionism. It has been unable, especially
in Great Britain, to avoid heavy taxation of the rich;
and it has been unable to prevent socialist propaganda.
Per contra, it can prevent Governments composed of
socialists from introducing socialism, and if they are
obstinate it can bring about their downfall by engineer-
ing a crisis and by propaganda. If this means were to
fail, it could stir up a civil war. That is to say, where
the issue is simple and public opinion is definite, the
plutocracy is powerless; but where public opinion is
undecided, or baffled by the complexity of the issue,
the plutocracy can procure a desired political result.
Concerning propaganda he points out that it “is
only successful where it is in harmony with some-
thing in the patient: his desire for an immortal soul,
for better health, for the greatness of his nation or
what not. Where there is no fundamental reason for
acquiesence, the assertions of authority are viewed
with cynical scepticism.” He instances the failure of
propaganda in Ireland up to 1922, and in India.
One of the advantages of a democracy, from the .
Governmental point of view, is that it makes the average
citizen easier to deceive, since he regards the Govern-
ment as his Government. Opposition to a war that
is not swiftly successful arises much less readily in a
democracy than under any other form of constitution.
In a democracy a majority can only turn against the
Government by first admitting to themselves that they
were mistaken in fnrmerlv thinking wpII nf their chosen
Jfcaucrs- yhieh i difficult and unp.Vasant.
* . ,;k a. (Tree*' a kind is essentia: to
social e<>«lesion, but if ii r ’ e " «c o< Mn,,th'..
(Continued on page 8 ,


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ” —the salt of business.
"THE SENIOR STORE”
ECONOMY IN FURNITURE
NS
S 2
m
|f| w aiw ■fWIB
%*r
!?rt
SWING HAMMOCKS
AS ILLUSTRATED
£lllo'
USUALLY £l2 / 2 / 6
Here is a Swing Hammock built to give exceptional
service and comfort. Multi-coloured Canvas Canopy,
which is adjustable and complete with flock filled
multi-coloured canvas overlay and one cushion.
Woven diamond wire lacquered tubular frame.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price £l2/2/6
SPECIAL PRICE £ll/10/-
EASY TERMS: DESPOSIT £l/3/-.
9 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF £l/3/10
I
mi
£7/15/- OAK LOWBOY
Strongly constructed of selected M I .
timber. Finished a medium oak JW| /1 /#%
colour and panelled doors. tT Jfi /ILI /
Four sliding trays and two J I M
shelves. Balance hanging space. “■ ■ ■
Lowboy is also fitted with trouser rail and mirror. Height
sft. 4in. Width 4ft. Depth 20ins.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price . £7/157-
SPECIAL PRICE £4/19/6
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT !«/-. 6 MONTHLY PAYMENTS
OF 15/4
SW- “CHILCOTT” ICE CHEST
Our latest model "Chilcott" Ice Chest.
All metal with rounded corners on front,
giving a very attractive appearance.
The interior is lined with one-piece
porcelain on steel. The cavity walls
/Si/013
and doors are insulated with 2in. slab cork, which is protected
each side with Resistoid, this making a most perfect insulation.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price, each .. ..... £ll/10/-
SPECIAL PRICE, each £lO/15/-
FOR 01
CONVENIENT
CREDIT
CALENDAR
How many important
items do you require
in your home? ... or
even those little lux-
uries to further your
comfort. Why do
without? No need for
self denial when you
can buy at Anthony
Horderns' famous low
.prices and pay for
your purchases on
our Easy Terms
system.
■
-
ggfeoeiViiiYiH
m- WRITING BUREAU
Highly figured W alnut
Bureau Bookcase. Open
book shelves at each end.
Bureau is fitted with writ-
ing facilities, two door
i5 / io / -
cupboard at bottom. Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, £B/5/-. SPECIAL PRICE £5/10/-
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 11/-. 6 MONTHLY
PAYMENTS OF 10/11
IVV- SMOKER’S CHAIR
IW-
Comfortable Smoker's Chair, but-
toned and upholstered in good
quality fabricoid. Fitted pipe rack.
Adjustable to four positions. Strongly
constructed frame finished a rich
Walnut colour.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price,
each £7/7/-
SPECIAL PRICE, each £7
EASY TERMS: DEPOSIT 14/-.
6 MONTHLY PAYMENTS OF
£l/1/6
• Furniture—Third and Fourth Floors. Delivered free only within our delivery area.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'Phone M 2401.
Day and Night.


HOW
HEROES
ARE
MADE—
as demonstrated by the Reacher-Outer-Bringer-Backer.
by J. B. BLAIR
ILLUSTRATED BY UNK WHITE.
RUMPELMAYER became rather difficult after
our experience with George Washington. His
faith in the Reacher-Outer-Bringer-Backer, like
mine, was still unbounded, but he had sud-
denly discovered all sorts of high-souled scruples about
using it.
“An invention like this,” he said, “is a sacred
trust and must be treated as such. Fancy trying to
use it to advertise pickles! No wonder things went
wrong! ”
“Hold on!” I protested. “You’re not getting
superstitious, are you?”
“Superstition,” replied Rumpy, “has no place in
the scientific mind, but how could I, a scientist, be
expected to concentrate all my energy and effort on
an enterprise which I knew in my heart was base
and unworthy? Pickles and cigarettes!”
All my dreams of wealth looked like disappear-
ing into space with no chance of ever coming back,
Robbie or no Robbie, so I strove manfully to make
Rumpy see things in a saner light. All inventions,
great and small, I pointed out, were put to commer-
cial use. There was nothing degrading about it. The
world being constituted as it was it was the natural-
thing.
The next hour gave the society the treat
of its life. Robbie brought back three
battles, two royal deathbeds and a
funeral oration. Turning to local affairs
he let them hear Henry Parkes address-
ing his constituents and Billy Hughes
replying to the Warwick egg.
Rumpy shook his head. “Not for my Bringer-
Backer,” he said.
All my arguments failed to move him an inch.
Henceforth Robbie was to be dedicated entirely to
the interests of science.
“If any historical points need clearing up,” he
said, “I’m quite prepared to attend to them —in a
proper scientific way, of course, and not as a tie-up
to pickles or toothpaste. Now you’d better be leaving.
I’m going to tune in to ancient Athens to see if I can
pick up some of the lost books of Euclid. I’ve an
idea they might throw some new light on the Einstein
Theory.”
T" O say I felt gloomy would be putting it far too
1 mildly. My feelings can be compared to those of
a man who discovers an oil gusher in his backyard
and for a moment envisions himself riding on its tide
into the seats of the mighty with everything that
money can buy at his hand, then is suddenly brought
back to earth by the arrival of a repair gang sent to
fix a broken water main.
At the same time I am forced to admit that there
are degrees even of extreme despair, and my gloom
was as a radiant glow of joy compared with the ex-
pression on the face of Longwave, manager of 2AZ,
when I met him shortly after leaving Rumpelmayer’s.
“What’s the trouble?” I asked. “Has your news
commentator changed his shirt?”
“Nothing as simple as that,” he replied dolefully.
“This is real serious.”
I waited to hear more.
“The station looks like losing some of its biggest
contracts,” he went on, “and I’ll have to carry the
baby.”
“Nothing to do with the Reacher-Outer, I hope?”
“No, worse luck, or I could pass the buck on to
you. Come in here and I’ll tell you all about it.”
We went into Bateman’s, and over our first drink
he produced from his pocket a newspaper clipping
and photograph.
“Seen this?”
It happened that I had. The photograph was
that of one Colonel Buggswater, late of the Indian
Army, who was touring Australia and was getting
more publicity than a visiting film star.
“What’s he got against you?” I asked.
“Nothing yet. It’s old Bludden-Tarr I’m worried
about. Y’see, the night before last we had Buggs-
water talking over 2AZ —reminiscences of India, and
so on —and he got boasting of his family history. It
seems his great-grandfather distinguished himself at
the Battle of San Gestapo in Spain.”
“Franco’s side or International Brigade?”
“Not this war, you ass. It was his great-grand-
father, I tell you, fighting with Wellington at the be-
ginning of last century.”
“Oh!”
“Well, according to his story, the turning point
of the battle was the capture of a little farmhouse,
and this old chap’s ancestor, Captain Buggswater,
was the hero of the day—held out there with a hand-
ful of men against thousands, or something like that.
The colonel made quite a good story out of it. We
had hundreds of calls after the session.”
“But what has that got to do with Bludden-Tarr?”
“I’m coming to that. Most of the calls were con-
gratulatory, but Bludden-Tarr rang up in a proper
fury. It seems that he’s been telling the same story for
years, and he claims that the real hero of the battle
was his great-grandfather, Major Bludden-Tarr. He
threatens that unless we ejfpose the impostor,
as he calls Buggswater, and apologise over
the air he’ll cancel all his contracts with us.
You know what that means.”
I did. The Bludden-Tarrs had been in
Australia for over a century and had always
been a force to be reckoned with, but the
present head of the family wielded more
power than his forebears had ever dreamed
of. He held a controlling interest in many
diverse undertakings, and was on the board
of many others, and his ill-will could easily
wreck concerns much more powerful than
2AZ.
“Well, why don’t you haul old Buggs-
water up and make him retract?” I asked.
“That’s the trouble. I can’t. He’s on
the board of half a dozen English firms,
patent medicines and so on, all of which advertise with
us. That’s why we let him talk in the first place. If
we offend him, we’ll lose all that stuff. We’re between
the devil and the deep.”
“Time, gents,” said Phoebe for the fourth time.
PsURING the next few days I heard quite a lot
more about the Buggswater-Bludden-Tarr feud.
Both parties had given long interviews to reporters,
and all the daily papers featured the story. Colonel
Buggswater was seething with Anglo-Indian wrath at
having his word doubted and the honor of his
ancestors filched by a damned colonial, and Sir
Thomas Bludden-Tarr, no less incensed, was threaten-
ing libel actions, horsewhippings and deportation
efforts if the colonel did not withdraw his claims at
once.
“For more than a hundred years,” he protested,
“my family has revered the memory of gallant Major
Bludden-Tarr, who with a handful of men captured
the historic farmhouse at San Gestapo, and I would
be failing in my duty if I allowed this self-styled Indian
colonel to usurp for his unknown ancestor a glory
that rightly belongs to my own flesh and blood.”
Colonel Buggswater’s statement was just as em-
phatic and perhaps a little more savage. He ridiculed
the idea that the credit for the farmhouse incident
could be claimed for the Bludden-Tarrs, “who,” he
said, “were probably firmly (if unwillingly) established
in Australia twenty years or more before my heroic
great-grandfather, practically single-handed, routed a
whole battalion of Frenchmen and held the farm-
house until the Battle of San Gestapo was won. 1
can quite understand,” he concluded, “that in this
country when men of wealth feel in need of family
traditions they often invent them. Let them do this
by all means if it pleases them, but they must not be
allowed to ransack the archives of notable families in
order to bolster up the reputations of their own obscure
forebears.”
After these exchanges Sydney lawyers were wager-
ing large sums as to which claimant would be first in
with his writs. The papers, being in much the same
position as 2AZ, stood strictly neutral and gave equal
prominence to the statements of both sides. Never-
theless, it was from the afternoon paper that I got my
idea. A letter to the editor, discussing the controversy,
said: “Surely some student of history who has delved
deeply into the Peninsular War could solve the
problem.”
Of course! A student of history might, but
Robbie, the re-creator of history, certainly could! Why
hadn’t I thought of it sooner? I rushed around to
Longwave and we went in force to Rumpy’s hideout
at Aunt Lucy’s.
“WES, you’ll find him in the playroom, the dear
I boy,” said Aunt Lucy. “He’s playing with his
gramophone. Such queer records, too. No music in
’em at all, in my opinion.”
We found our way into the workshop. The
Reacher-Outer was in full blast, and Rumpelmayer was
in high spirits.
“Sh!” he whispered. “Hear that scratching
noise? D’you know what that is?” »
We shook our heads.
“King John signing Magna Charta!”
The scratching ceased, and an angry torrent of
words burst forth.
“He’s swearing in Norman French,” explained
Eddie.
There was silence again.
“Listen very carefully,” Eddie went on. “What
d’you make of that noise?”
I gave up, but Longwave took a chance. “Mice,”
he ventured.
“No,” crowed Rumpy triumphantly. “That’s
King John on the floor chewing the rushes. The his-
tory books are right after all.”
Of course we heard it quite plainly then. We had
to or we’d never have brought Rumpy back to 1939.
Even as it was we had to wait till John had finished
his breakfast and had stamped out of the tent vowing
(so Rumpy told us) to play merry hell with the barons’
castles.
• Knowing Rumpelmayer as I did I thought it best
not to reveal the object of our visit right away; in-
stead, I strove to get him in a receptive mood by let-
ting him talk about Robbie.
“How are you getting on with the lost books
of Euclid?” I asked.
“Not too well. Trouble is I don’t know enough
Greek. But I’ve had lots of success in other ways.
I’ve heard William the Conqueror land at Hastings,
and I got on to some really interesting scraps of con-
versation between Elizabeth and Essex.”
“Talking about Hastings,’’ I broke in. “Have you
ever heard of the Battle of San Gestapo?”
He hadn’t, but we soon told him all we knew
about it.
Rumpy was interested right away, and I could see
his fingers were itching to set the Reacher-Outer grop-
ing in space. However, he restrained himself and
asked a few questions. Why were we so interested
in the matter? he wanted to know. Surely it was a
private squabble between Buggswater and Bludden-
Tarr?
Before I could say a word Longwave had blun-
dered in with the real explanation—the impending
loss of revenue to 2AZ.


Rumpy stiffened at once. “Oh,” he said. “Sordid
commercialism again! No genuine interest in science
or history. Nothing doing! Robbie and I have more
important work to do.”
Our pleadings only made him more determined.
Not only would he not listen to us, but he switched
on the Reacher-Outer and filled the room with such
a terrific din—an eruption of Vesuvius or the Battle
of the Somme by the sound of it —that he couldn’t
even hear us. After five minutes’ bombardment we
took the hint and left.
TRIED persuading Rumpy over the ’phone a couple
of times in the course of the next few days, but
he wouldn’t Jisten. Left to myself I might have man-
aged to persuade him, but that fool Longwave had
also been pestering him, and he was in no mood foi
reconciliations.
“You’ll have to think of some other way of mak-
ing your fortune,” he told me. “I’m using Robbie
solely in the interests of science.” He rang off.
In the interests of science,” I repeated to 2AZ’s
solicitor from whose office I had rung. “That gives
me an idea. All we have to do is to convince Rumpel-
mayer that this information is needed in the interests
of science and he’ll be after it like a shot.”
“Easier said than done.”
That’s what he thought, but already the old brain
was putting the finishing touches to a gilt-edged plan.
Who’s the patron of the Historical Society?”
I asked.
“Why—er—er—l think old Bludden-Tarr is.”
So do I. In fact, I know he is. Hence my little
scheme. Suppose Rumpelmayer gets a letter from the
Historical Society saying they’ve heard of his inven-
tion and would like him to give a demonstration to
a few of its members. Don’t you think he’d jump at
the chance?”
“Yes, I suppose he would.”
“Right! Well, it’s up to you to fix it up. You
could get in touch with Bludden-Tarr’s solicitors, and
they could arrange the whole thing with the president
of the society.”
“What if the president objects?”
“Not a chance! He’ll be interested from the
purely scientific angle, and he’ll also want to keep in
with Bludden-Tarr, who probably puts up most of
the society’s funds. Bludden-Tarr, as patron, will be
present at the demonstration, and so will Buggswater.
You’ll arrange that with his solicitor.”
“But you don’t expect the two of them to agree
to go along together?”
“Why not? If they’re as sure of their claims as
they seem to be each will be only too glad to see the
other made to sing small.”
He was not quite convinced. “I still don’t see
how you’ll get Rumpelmayer to bring back that actual
incident,” he said. “He might want to demonstrate
on some other period.”
“He probably will, but after he’s done his stuff
the president will ask for a further test. He’ll chal-
lenge Rumpy to bring back the events of a given
time and place. Rumpy will, of course, oblige, not
knowing till too late that he’s been reaching out for
the Battle of San Gestapo.”
He agreed that there was something in the idea,
and after a chat with Longwave he set out to see
the solicitors of the two claimants.
'*p HERE must have been a lot of close co-operation
and good teamwork between the three legal firms
during the next few days, as both Bludden-Tarr and
Buggswater ceased giving interviews to the papers, and
as far as the public was aware the whole affair might
easily have been settled. But under the surface it
was not merely simmering ; it was almost boiling over.
Longwave was the one most aware of that. Never-
theless, his lawyer was able to report that the
plan had succeeded to the point that Rumpelmayer
had agreed to give a demonstration to the society and
the two old boys had both been persuaded to be
present. Bludden-Tarr had proved the easier of the
two. As patron of the society he had accepted before
realising that Buggswater would also be present. When
told he was at first amazed, then a bright thought
struck him.
“I’ll ignore him,” he announced. “By jove,
that’ll annoy him! Being ignored by the patron!
He’ll feel that.”
Colonel Buggswater’s reason tor accepting was no
less charitable. “Don’t introduce me to the bounder,”
he said. “Then I won’t have to speak to the blighter.
Living on my family traditions! The cad!”
The demonstration was fixed for the following
Monday night. My idea was to give the president the
exact latitude and longitude of San Gestapo and the
date of the battle so that he could spring them on
Rumpy at the right moment.
History books didn’t give very much informa-
tion, but at last I got the position of the village, and
Longwave questioned the two claimants (separately,
of course) as to dates and times. They agreed almost
to the minute.
By this time I found myself deeply interested in
the outcome, quite apart from any benefits I might
reap through helping Longwave. I couldn’t decide
which claimant was the
more likely. Each seemed
tq have his facts so com-
plete and their stories
tallied so well. The sug-
gestion that a common an-
cestor might be the solu-
tion to the problem they
both rejected.
“No Buggswater in my
blood,” scoffed Sir Thomas,
and the Colonel was
equally emphatic that his
family tree showed no
traces of Bludden-Tarr.
AUNT LUCY was in
her element on Mon-
day night as she showed
the party into Rumpel-
mayer’s workshop.
“There won’t be much
for supper,” she warned us.
“Eddie’s just the same as
he always was. Never lets
me know. Still, I’ll run
up some quick cakes and
pop down to the corner for
some sausage-rolls. Boys
always like sausage-rolls,
don’t they?”
Rumpy received Long-
wave and myself without
demur. “If you two chaps
want me,” he said, “you’ll
have to wait till my guests
have gone. I’ve got a dem-
onstration on. You can
watch if you like.”
There were some awk-
ward moments while the in-
troductions were going on,
but I breathed again when Rumpy showed no signs of
recognition on hearing the names of the rivals. He
was too eager to get on with the demonstration, and
had never had much of a head for names anyway.
The audience soon settled down. Buggswater and
Bludden-Tarr were striving hard to out-ignore each
other, and Longwave was keeping his distance from
them both in order not to offend either.
“The principles behind my invention,” began
Rumpelmayer, “are simple in the extreme.” He then
entered upon a long disquisition which might have
proved both interesting and intelligible to a physicist
had one been present, but which probably bored the
Historical Society as much as it aggravated Buggs-
water and Bludden-Tarr.
After a forty-minute lecture, Rumpy showed signs
of coming to the practical side of the demonstration.
The next hour gave the society the treat of its life.
Robbie brought back three battles, two royal death-
beds and a funeral oration. Turning to local affairs
he let them hear Henry Parkes addressing his con-
stituents and Billy Hughes replying to the Warwick
egg. Then, flushed with triumph, Rumpelmayer
switched him off and turned to his audience, who
burst into applause.
The president rose and expressed his amazement
at what he had witnessed. It left him spellbound,
he said. The Reacher-Outer opened up entirely new
fields of thought. History would no longer suffer
from scantiness of records. It would be founded
upon absolute and unimpeachable facts. He sat down,
overcome. I coughed. The claimants looked savage.
Longwave nudged the president, who blushed, and
rose again.
“Er —er —that is,” he added, “provided this inven-
tion—er —adequately proves itself. All that we have
seen has been truly marvellous, but I am sure Mr.
Rumpelmayer will not refuse to put his invention to
a final test. Can he bring back the sounds of a cer-
tain date and place I have written here?” He pro-
duced a slip of paper—the one I had given him. Eddie
expressed his willingness to try.
“The date is June 27, 1812, three o’clock in the
afternoon,” said the president, “and the place is north
latitude 39deg. 21min. 15sec., east longitude 6deg.
35min. 45sec.”
“Right,” said Rumpy, taking the paper. “It’ll
take about fifty-one minutes. I’ll adjust Robbie and
we’ll have supper while we’re waiting.”
Q UPPER was a pleasant interlude, although at one
stage nasty developments threatened when both
Sir Thomas and the Colonel rushed to assist Aunt
Lucy with the coffee. The situation looked ugly for
a moment until Aunt Lucy forced the dish of sausage-
rolls on Bludden-Tarr and the danger of a clash was
averted. The Historians were equally loud in their
praises of Aunt Lucy’s supper and Rumpelmayer’s
invention.
“It’s the most marvellous thing for hundreds of
years,” enthused one* reaching for a piece of sponge
cake.
“Oh, you flatterer,” said Aunt Lucy. “It’s just an
old recipe of mother’s that I ran up while I was wait-
ing.”
“All set,” announced Rumpy, returning from a
visit to the workshop. “It’s coming through. A battle
of some kind by the sound of it.”
We hastened back. Robbie was in full blast.
Foreign voices were coming from the amplifier.
“It’s the French soldiers in the farmhouse,” said
Bludden-Tarr.
One of the Historians began to translate for us.
Two voices at least, there seemed to be.
“Those English pigs! Will they not give up? All
day they have been attacking.”
“Our ammunition. It cannot last much longer.
We shall have to retreat.”
“Retreat! Pardieu! Where? They surround
us!”
Spasmodic shooting was punctuating this conver-
sation.
“By gad!” murmured Colonel Buggswater. “My
great-grandfather must be pretty near now.”
“Sh!” warned Longwave, with a glance at Rum-
pelmayer. Rumpy hadn’t heard, but Bludden-Tarr
had.
“Y -your great-grandfather,” he spluttered. “Mine,
you mean, I tell you”
The Reacher-Outer was speaking again. “Helas!
1 have not a shot left.”
“My last also. We are done. The English with
their bayonets are about to overcome us.”
I couldn’t help feeling that our self-appointed
translator was letting us down a bit. His lines seemed
to lack the pep necessary for such a conversation.
There were a few more shots, which seemed to
be getting nearer. “Must be the English,” suggested
Longwave.
Loud sounds as of a door being battered in.
“They are about to break in the door. We must
die like true sons of France,” said our translator,
and despite his uninspiring tones we were all keyed
up for the next utterance.
It came. No need for a translator here. “Come
on, you Froggies! Surrender or you’ll get these ’ere
baynits stuck through y’r guts!”
Bludden-Tarr looked at Buggswater. For a
moment they forgot they were rivals.
“One of the privates,” suggested Buggswater.
“Yes,” agreed Sir Thomas. “Major Bludden-Tarr
is probably standing by to take their swords.”
“Captain Buggs”
o Continued on page 7.)


The Author of Writes of Brumbies
The Congueror
by Henry G. Lamond
DRA WING
BY COSGRAVE
HE galloped to the lead of his mares, wheeled
them, swung them into a mob and squealed his
pride. He went through the mares, his neck
arched, his tail sweeping, asserting his domi-
nance. He extended his nostrils to this one, flirted for
a second or two with that, reared on his hind legs and,
turning as a dancer might, with a wanton display of
ownership he struck savagely at a mare which came
near.
After he had steadied the mob The Rager
selected his favorite —an aged mare with a foal at
foot, a chestnut with a crooked stripe on her face, a
brand on her near shoulder, U9L. He stood head-and-
tail with her —each swishing the flies from the other’s
face—with lower lips pendulous, with one hind leg
resting, with eyes half-closed, at ease.
After a time he lifted his head, pricked his ears,
listened intently to analyse the meaning of that muffled
sound. Then he dropped his head again, though re-
maining wide awake, with his feet under him, .his
lower lip drawn up, alert and ready. He knew. It
was a mob of horses being driven up the river road,
less than half a mile distant.
The Rager held his mares there till the sun had
dropped, till the tinkling of bells in the distance told
of horses hobbled out, till the breeze drifting from the
south gave him the information he wanted: there
were mares among the hobbled horses!
He stood out clear of the mob and looked over
them, the wind rippling his mane and spraying his tail,
which clung caressingly in long strands to his coat.
He stood about fifteen-two, low set, developed, his
muscles running like well-oiled pistons, a blood bay
with black points, with just the faintest smudge of
white showing as a small star on his forehead —a
horse full-blooded, a stallion showing breeding, every
inch of him the master of his mares.
The mares understood ; they were to stay there
till their lord returned. Though there were over forty
of them already, though additional numbers meant
reduced favors, almost the mares seemed to glory in
the size of the mob, denoting the prowess of their
master. Though there were petty jealousies among
them, not one mare there would dream of crossing
the desires and will of The Rager. If he wished to
add to his brood that was a question which he would
decide for himself.
'T' HE drovers had camped for the night at a water-
* hole, their horses hobbled out on the flat in
view of the camp. It was barely dark when one man
got up from where he was sitting and approached the
fire. He lifted a smouldering stick to light his pipe,
but before he had taken one draw from the coal he
dropped it. “The flamin’ brumbies is among the
horses!” he shouted. “It’s that flamin’ Rager—l’ll bet
a quid!”
The Rager had flashed from the clump of gidya
in which he had hidden. He struck with the speed
of a snake. With his tail streaming, mane flying,
head held low, teeth bared, ears lopped, eyes striking
opal as the light struck them, belly-to-earth he shot in
among the hobbled horses which huddled together at
his approach.
He chopped one mare, swept another before
him, swung another which tried to flee. He grouped
the three as an expert cattleman might work his bul-
locks on camp, reared with no diminution of pace,
struck an interfering gelding to the ground in a
struggling heap with its back broken, tossed his head
aside to avoid a flying kick, had his charges in front
of him careering over the flat almost without pause,
and before the men in the camp could do more than
shout at him.
The mares, plunging in their hobbles, fled before
him. Though he had had them less than a minute,
he seemed to impress his will on theirs. They gal-
loped in the direction in which he drove them, fear
lending them pace. They burst through a fringe of
trees, across a little plain, swept like a living whirl-
wind among the brood left to wait their owner’s
return. The sweat was flying from them, their eyes
were wild with dread, but they dared not oppose the
master who commanded them.
The Rager never hesitated. He raced round his
startled brood, swung the new mares among them
to become part of the mob, got in behind them and
drove helter-skelter at a gallop.
The rising sun found the mob fifteen miles out
from the river, at the base of the foothills, where the
picking was sound. During the night the three new
mares had snapped their hobbles. One was belled.
Though the tinkling frightened the other mares at
first, they had quickly become accustomed to it.
The Rager stood for a moment outside the mob.
The sun struck ribbons of fire from his flashing coat.
The wind played with his mane and tail.
At first he had been slightly perturbed by the
sound of the bell, which advertised the presence of the
mob. He became accustomed to it. Like most other
animals, he quickly learned that the bell served as a
rallying point to draw the mob, to hold it together,
to serve as a signal to all. If he could have thought,
and if he had disregarded the danger of that bell,
almost he would have appreciated it. More, and the
main thing from his point of view, the mare who wore
it was one who found most favor with him. He dis-
carded the U9L mare and stood head-and-tail with
the newcomer when resting ; he kept her by his side
always, allowed her privileges which no other shared.
In the drover’s camp Bill complained to his mate :
“That’s Aurora. I won the double with her at the
’Dangie. She’s the best mare on the river. That’s why
I had her belled. She ain’t no good for racin’ now, but
she’s worth fifty quid for breedin’. She can stay with
that there Rager for a bit. She might breed a good
foal to him. He’s supposed to be a thoroughbred
what got away. But I’ll come back when this trip’s
finished. I’ll get her if I got to wipe out the whole
flamin’ mob.”
"T HE brumbies continued their life on the river.
* They had limitless miles along the Georgina over
which to roam, the sweetest grass in Queensland on
which to graze, water in plenty and The Rager to
lord it over them, to oust roving stallions which came
searching for mates to reign as king of the river. And,
supreme among the mares, ranking next to The Rager
himself, Aurora acquired the instincts of a brumby
in the change between day and night. But she car-
ried her bell!
Twelve months slipped by. Bill came back in
search of his mare. In the multitude of tracks on the
river frontages it was impossible to pick up those of
Aurora and The Rager. He rode for days, sighting
mobs in the distance, searching for his mare, and then
after about a week, he caught the tinkle of a bell in
the distance.
He rode carefully, going up wind all the time,
hiding in clumps of gidya. Finally he left his horse
tied to a tree and crawled through the timber to
where the bell led him. He saw The Rager’s mob on
the other side of a little clearing—mares, foals, year-
lings. Standing out from the mob, head-and-tail
under a separate tree, The Rager and Aurora swished
flies from each other ; beside Aurora, playing with
stems of grass, a foal which was unmistakably hers.
“I’ll shoot the flamin’ stallion,” Bill whispered
to himself. “That’ll upset the whole flamin’ mob.
After that I’ll bring some coachers an’ get me mare.”
He snuggled the rifle into his shoulder, drew a
sight on The Rager, pressed the trigger with the cer-
tainty that his bullet was going true. And just as the
trigger was tightened The Rager moved to one side as
the foal leapt forward. The stallion sprang suddenly
as there sounded beside him the thud of a slug tearing
through flesh and the zip of a bullet. The foal went
down, shot through the shoulder, screamed its agony,
raised dust in its struggles, lay there unable to rise.
With the smacking report of the rifle the whole
mob sprang off the mark. They scattered as they
raced, with another bullet in pursuit of The Rager
whining over their heads. And in that moment of
blind panic the stallion was superb! He knew what
it was to be shot at, to see horses stricken to death
by bullets which sighed through the air. He had all
the dread of man ; he was a wild thing which was
thrown from its mental balance by a sudden shook He
never hesitated; he swung round his mob, raced to
the lead of them, called to them with his squealing. He
drew them upon himself as a rallying point; shielded
them as they retired, bringing up the rear from which
danger threatened.
Aurora missed her foal after the first wild rush of
fear. She called to it. Its faint whinnying was
brought to her from afar. She swept back, knowing
the danger, running the risk ; she returned to her foal,
nuzzled it, stood over it and snorted her defiance.
The Rager missed his favorite! He halted the
mob, ranged through them, called once. He saw Aurora
in the distance, and, with his tail streaming, head low,
ears flattened, hooves thundering, he swept back to
his mare. He ignored the bullets which flicked dust
beside him and ping-g-ged through the air. He
came in like a whirlwind, picked up his mare in a
manner resembling a hawk swooping on a quail.
Aurora’s mother-love was swept aside before the
avalanche which shouldered her off her foal, which
chopped her when she resisted, which cut off all her
efforts to dodge back, which ignored the flying bullets,
which took no heed of the stream of red running
down his flank from a pecked hip. She raced in front
of that devil which claimed her. She sped back to
the mob which waited for her, afraid to move till their
lord took them out to pastures.
The Rager was disturbed, irritable, annoyed and
upset. He drove his mob away from their accustomed
run, refused to let them in to their usual waterhole to
drink. Twenty miles away, sweating, nerves on edge,
hollow for a drink, the mob picked up some pads
which palpably led to water. The Rager took the
lead and led them in.
T” HE mob drank and played in the water. The
* Rager was thirsty—drier than he usually was. He
drank till his belly swelled, till the water dribbled
from his nostrils, till he sighed with content and
grunted in his fullness. Then he drove his mob out
to find new pastures. And never for one instant dur-
ing the whole time did he allow Aurora to leave his
side.
Less than a mile out from water they met another
mob coming in for a drink. The stallion was a big
fellow, brown, muscular, heavy with a dash of draught
blood ; by the size of his mob he was branded as a
fighter. When he sighted The Rager’s mob he stood
clear of his mares. He called to the newcomers, ad-
vanced to meet them, to merge the mares with his
own, calling as he came.
The Rager galloped up the wing of his mob to
meet the brown fellow. He was heavy in his actions,
sluggish, wallowing as he raced, and there was a sus-
picion of a limp in the leg below the hit hip. He
showed no hesitation, though he was at the disadvan-
tage of a fresh gorge of water. He disdained any pre-
liminaries of battle. His head was low, his teeth
bared ; he struck at the brown’s foreleg.
The Rager showed all the fire which had won
him so many battles, gained him so many mares. His
teeth took a punishing grip on the foreleg; with
one action he braced himself to lift and heave, to
heave and throw.


“Sh! Sh!” urged the Historians.
Apparently the Frenchmen had no desire to test
English steel, for they made no reply.
“Take charge of ’em, corp’l,” instructed the first
voice.
“I’ll look after ’em, sergeant,” a new voice an-
nounced. “’Ere, ’lggins, you take the little covey an’
you, Wilson, keep y’r heyes on the fat ’un. If they
tries any o’ their furrin’ tricks tickle their ribs with
those there pigstickers.”
By this time, judging by the sounds, there must
have been quite a number of British soldiers in the
farmhouse. The one addressed as sergeant was appar-
ently in charge. French prisoners were being brought
forth from other rooms in the house. After a while
the sergeant spoke again. .
“Wonder what ’appened to the major?”
Bludden-Tarr glared at Buggswater in triumph.
The corporal’s voice replied, rather matter-of-
factly. “The dirty dogs must’ve finished ’im orf, an’
the captain, too.”
Buggswater bucked up again, and looked at Sir
Thomas as if to say: “That puts me level at any rate.”
“’lggins! Bring those coves back!” This from
the sergeant.
The old Historians’ eyes were popping out of their
heads.
“Now look ’ere, you Froggies. D’you compree
English?”
“Yair. Yair.”
The face of our translator fell.
“Right!” said the sergeant. “Now, when you
took possession of this ’ere farm’ouse, wot did you
do with our two officers?”
“No officers! No ones at all. Farm’ouse, she
empty.”
For ten minutes the sergeant questioned and
threatened the Frenchman, but he stuck to his guns.
“All right, ’lggins. Take ’im orf.”
The corporal spoke up. “It beats me, sergeant.
Wot d’you think ’appened to ’em?”
“Well, you an’ me saw ’em plain as daylight
walkin’ over to this farm two days ago. An’ then,
three hours later, we looks, an’ the Froggies is all round
the place. They must’ve been captured, that’s all
about it . . . Found anything, Simpson?”
“Yes, sergeant, there’s a cellar trapdoor over ’ere.”
“Blimey, so there is. Come on, boys, get this
trap open.”
“You don’t think, sergeant, as ’ow they’ve knifed
’em and chucked the bodies down there, do y’?”
“Them Froggies’d do anything. Get that door
open.”
In Rumpy’s workshop we could feel the tense-
ness of the situation as keenly as though we were
actually in the room of the little farmhouse at San
Gestapo, waiting Cor the horrible secret the cellar
might reveal.
“Can y’ see anything?”
The trapdoor had evidently been forced.
“It’s dark as pitch. ’Ere, light us one o’ those
candles over there ... I can see something. Looks
like a couple o’ bodies.”
“ ’Ere, I’ll go down. You too, corp’l. Come on.”
Rumpy leaned forward and made a slight adjust-
ment to the Reacher-Outer. “We’ll follow them down
the cellar,” he explained.
“Gorstrewth, it’s them, all right,” said the ser-
geant. “Pore old major. Wasn’t a bad old when
’e was sober.”
“Yes,” agreed the corporal. “An’ the captain.
’E ’ad ’is good points, too —at times.”
“Well, come on. Carry ’em up. It’s no good
cryin’ over spilt”
“Milk,” completed the corporal as the sergeant
broke off.
“That ain’t milk. That’s good Spanish wine. Look
at those bottles. The old fools ain’t dead ; they’re just
drunk. No wonder they was so fond o’ cornin’ over
’ere to reckonoiter. They must’ve found this stuff an’
was keeping it to theirselves. The cellar door must’ve
slammed on ’em before the Froggies occupied the
farm, an’ they’ve been blind ever since. Come on,
you coveys,” he called to those above. “Come and
’elp lift the major an’ the captain.”
“Are they dead, sergeant?”
“ ’Course they’re dead. Dead drunk! Carry ’em
up.”
DURING the next few minutes the sounds were
rather hard to disentangle. Heavy feet on stairs.
Grunts and heavy breathing. “Sleeps like a hangel,
don’t ’e?” . . . A little burst of drunken song. . . .
Laughter. . . . “You’ll be all right, major. Wish I ’ad
’arf y’r complaint.” . . . “Put ’em down there. . . .
“Get the stretchers.” . . . “That’s right.” . . . “Now,
back to ’eadquarters with ’em, boys.”
“Sergeant! Sergeant! ’E’s coming!”
“’Oo is, fat’ead?”
“Old Nosey, sir. The Dook.”
“The Dook! Blimey. Look alive there, you
coveys. Spring to it.”
A stern, commanding voice. “Who’s in charge
here?”
“Me, sir,” from the sergeant. “Beg to report, sir.
We’ve captured the farm, sir. Sixteen prisoners, sir.
Our losses, three wounded, none killed, sir.”
“Fine work. Where are your officers?”
“None here, sir.”
“Damme, what do you mean? No officers?
Where’s Major—er—Major Bludden-Tarr and Cap-
tain Buggswater?”
No reply.
“Hang it, man. You’re not dumb, are you? Where
are they?”
“Er —er —well, you see, sir, they’ve just gone
back to ’eadquarters.”
“Impossible. I’ve just come from there. I’d have
passed them on the way. All I passed were the
stretcher-bearers.”
We could visualise the sergeant having a bad
time of it. He stammered out: “That was them, sir.”
“What! Wounded? Begad, why didn’t you say
so, you dunderhead? Seriously?”
The sergeant had recovered himself again. “No,
sir, not what you’d call serious, sir. Just stunned.”
“Stunned?”
“Yes, sir. Knocked out. ’lt on the ’ead with
—er”
“Bottles,” finished the corporal, coming to the
rescue.
“I see,” said the Duke. “Hand-to-hand fighting.
Well, they’ll get their reward, and so will all of you.
This is a fine piece of work —the whole campaign may
turn on it. Your officers will get their reward, and
so will you.”
PEACE reigned o’er San Gestapo. Rumpy, realis-
ing that the drama was at an end, switched Robbie
off. The audience, suddenly transported back to
1939, burst into loud applause, which ceased when
the president of the Historians rose to his feet and
announced: “I shall ask our esteemed patron, Sir
Thomas Bludden-Tarr, to propose a hearty vote of
thanks to Mr. Rumpelmayer for this truly magnificent
demonstration. Sir Thomas”
But Bludden-Tarr was no longer in the room.
Nor, strangely enough, was Colonel Buggswater. Like
their doughty ancestors before them, they had
vanished.
tt\ WOULD you let us have just a little more?”
* * pleaded one of the Historians. “I’d like to hear
what happened after the Duke left.”
Rumpy, ever-obliging, switched on once more.
“Get their reward! ” scoffed the corporal a
moment later. “ ’Ow d’you like that?”
“They’ve ’ad theirs,” replied the sergeant. “Now
we’ll ’ave ours. Open up that cellar again.”
The brown squealed his protest at this sudden
attack. He yelled his pain and terror, his head weav-
ing aimlessly as he struck blindly. The Rager’s teeth
clicked together as the skin and flesh tore from the
hold he had taken. He jerked back, strings of sinews
twisting from his teeth, staggered as he braced him-
self to recover his balance. He snapped to the attack
again. But he was spent, full, sluggish, unwieldy. As
he turned he twisted a pebble beneath his hoof, and
again he staggered.
The brown was no fool! He flashed in with an
agility surprising for one of his weight. His teeth
closed on The Rager’s wither. He lifted the lighter
horse, shook him as a dog does a rat, reared and
smashed as he shook.
The Rager dropped to the ground, a piece clean-
bitten from his wither, blood pouring down his
shoulder. His spirit should have been crushed beneath
the premonition of defeat, but he squirmed while in
the air, fighting to get his balance, to spring to the
attack again. As The Rager dropped to the ground
the brown horse’s thunderbolts of hind hooves caught
him, one under the belly, which crumpled him in the
air, the other on the stifle joint, cracking it like a
pistol clap. And then the brown was on him, striking,
biting, tearing, kicking, dealing death.
The Rager tried to struggle to his feet. He half
rose, one hind leg trailing. As he struggled the brown
came at him again, beat him to the ground, battered
him to lie a semi-senseless heap from which came
shuddering sobs as it gasped for breath.
The brown stallion turned to complete his con-
quest of the mares. He was attracted by Aurora’s bell.
He went to her. She, wide-eyed with admiration, ex-
tended her nostrils to the full-throated invitation from
him who now claimed her and her mob.
The Rager struggled to his feet. Blood poured
from him, his flanks heaved to draw air to his searing
lungs, his loins arched in agony. He swayed as he
stood, reeled from side to side to maintain his footing.
He tried to move forward, stepped gratingly, one leg
dragging, with his ears pricked, his eyes dimmed, yet
with an arch in his neck. He was a stallion, the owner
of a brood of mares. He struggled for a moment,
fighting for his breath, and, when he tried to move,
pitched forward. And as he fell an echo came to him
of the brown’s strident call of passion, the soft whinny
of a mare in response, the tinkle of a bell as Aurora
flirted her head in submission to the conqueror.
THE WEST
BY L. J. HULLICK.
DROUGHT. Four years of it! Four years of
red dust, blazing skies, stinking carcasses, flies,
red-hot galvanised-iron! Four summers and
no rain! One goes out into the heat, fearing
it, cursing it, but going on working in it.
In the paddocks one rides in a haze of dust and
flies, grass remembered only by the balls of tangled
grass-seed lined along the fences by the wind. Scrub
and saltbush eaten out by sheep, rabbits, ’roos, until
only dead sticks remain. The smaller trees ringbarked
by rabbits to as high as they can reach, and now
brittle and dangerous as fuel for bushfires. The
sparse eucalypts maybe with a few brownish-grey
leaves still clinging to them. A red carpet, black
match-sticks, greyish-brown canopy, and the sun-
light blazing through all.
Near the homestead there is an old horse sup-
ported by a scaffolding. Forked sticks hold up side-
rails and cross-pieces against which he leans; he rests
his head on another cross-piece. If he lies down he
will not get up again, and the crows will be at him. If
it rains to-day, to-morrow (one hopes without reason)
he might live. If not —well, he will die on his scaffold.
Along the fences are the festering carcasses of
sheep. Weakness overtakes them, they collapse —and
the crows and flies do the rest, not even waiting for
death first. The carcasses are burned when the job
is possible, but there are too many. Someone punches
off the wool and hopes that the crows will be quick
about their work.
Out on the river, fifteen miles away, a gang of
scrub-cutters is keeping alive the few remaining sheep.
The river is distinguishable only by a slight, channel-
like depression in the red clay. Four miles lower down
the course skirts a rocky outcrop, and here a primitive
dam has been built. Protected by stout poles and
tangled barbed wire, there’s a pool of muddy scum-
covered water, the sole remaining supply for stock and
homestead. When this goes, we walk out. And if we
get no rain for another month ...
Along the fence a ’roo, weakened to the point of
exhaustion, has failed to clear the three wires. His
body has hit the top wire, toppling him over. His
legs, levering the second wire over the top, have acted
as a strainer, and he is held securely, to beat and
scrape his life away in the red dust.
AND then the breaking!
Rain comes at night. First the wind, sweeping
before it sand and debris to rattle against the gal-
vanised-iron walls of the homestead. Follows a spell
of quiet, then taps on the roof. They become a steady
tattoo. It’s rain!
From the verandah the sky in all directions shows
nothing but enveloping blackness. It isn’t a storm, but
real rain! Now it is coming down in a steady torrent,
and the unaccustomed thunder on the roof oppresses
one’s eardrums. A steady drip-drip becomes audible,
then another and another. The roof is leaking in a
dozen places, the guttering is choked and overflowing
—but who cares?
The dogs are yelping, scared out of their wits by
this phenomenon. Some of them, three, four years
old, have never before seen rain. Finally, they take
refuge, whimpering, under the house.
Down at the men’s hut, now occupied by only
one man, another light appears—probably Mick’s
roof is leaking, too. His door opens, and Mick, clad
only in his shirt, unconscious of an observer, appears
in the doorway. His dog bolts in between his legs.
Mick’s form retires, to reappear a moment later minus
the shirt and with a cake of soap in his hand.
Inside, the missus is walking from room to room,
removing soaked blankets, placing buckets, pans,
kerosene-tins to catch the drips from the ceiling. And
she is smiling!
Two hours of this and the river will run. Then
the dam will fill! The slimy muck we’ve been drink-
ing for months will be washed out, and we will have
good, clean water again. The two tanks at the end of
the verandah, which have been bone-dry for years, are
steadily filling. The first rumble of water striking the
dry bottoms has turned to the splash which indicates
a foot, possibly two feet, of water.
MORNING, ten days later, and the sun is shining
again. But the clouds are lingering ; city news-
papers report: “Good rains have fallen in the pas-
toral areas, and further falls are expected.” A curt,
almost churlish, way of announcing the return to life
of a dead country.
The red carpet of dust and hard-baked clay has
given way to a carpet of green grass four inches high.
In another week it will be a foot high. Even on the
tracks, formerly as hard as cement, grass appears.
White, yellow, purple flowers nod along the fences.
The birds are returning.
Mick is fast approaching the stage when he will
curse the rain, for there is tragedy out at the river.
Half of the remaining flock, nursed and hand-fed
through the drought, has succumbed to the changed
conditions. Water accumulates in the wool, and the
sheep, in their weakened state, are unable to bear the
additional weight. They fall down, die of pneumonia
or exhaustion or are drowned. Anyway they would
probably all have died but for the rain, and the sur-
vivors are growing fat on the luxuriant grass.
There is work aplenty. Bogged sheep and horses
to be rescued, fences and tanks to be repaired, but
who complains of work while the grass grows inches
overnight? Mick growls, but rides out of the yard
whistling.
Mick loves the West. As he puts it: “In a good
season, you can’t get no better country nowhere ; but
in drought years —well, she’s a bloody blackfeller’s
country! ”


it must be genuinely and deeply felt by the great major-
ity of the population, including a considerable per-
centage of those upon whom technical efficiency depends.
A creed which is used as a source of power inspires for
a time great efforts, but these efforts, especially if they
are not very successful, produce weariness, and weari-
ness produces scepticism—not, at first, definite dis-
belief, which is an energetic frame of mind, but mere
absence of strong belief. The more the methods of
propaganda have been used to produce encitement the
greater will be the reaction, until in the end a quiet
life comes to seem the only thing worth having. When,
after a period of repose, the population again becomes
capable of encitement, it will need a new stimulus, since
all the old stimuli have become boring. Hence creeds
which are used too intensively are transitory in their
effects.
Summed up, Russell thinks that if the world in
the near future were to become divided between Fas-
cists and Communists the final victory would go to
neither. It would go to those who shrug their
shoulders and turn to cultivate their garden. “The
ultimate limit to the power of creeds is set by bore-
dom, weariness and love of ease.”
Strange Inventions.
E. C. Large, whose Sugar in the Air provided
some entertainment last year, has given it a successor
equally tall in Asleep in the Afternoon (Cape).
Charles Pry, the unheroic hero of the earlier
book, who manufactured sugar out of flue gas, finds
himself unemployed, with a wife and two children,
£7OO and no plans. He resorts to the desperate expedi-
ent of writing a novel. Asleep in the Afternoon is a
novel framing a novel. It contains Pry’s novel and
Pry’s life, layered and squeezed together so that they
fuse like chocolates in a heat-wave.
Pry’s novel, as distinct from E. C. Large’s, is an
extravaganza. Hugo Boom, a mathematician, became
deaf as a result of a tropical illness and, in experiment-
ing in apparatus to improve his hearing, stumbled on
a sleep-inducer.
That little black cone of Hugo’s was made of ebonite
and india-rubber; the vibrations it sent through the head
were produced by a pocket-lamp battery and a compact
piece of mechanism; the vibrations were inaudible, but
infinitely monotonous, they played too long on an
expectancy they never satisfied, and that was why they
put people to sleep.
Hugo got some mild satisfaction out of his inven-
tion until his wife, Agatha, discovered it and made it
her career. She interested in it a financier, Sir Samuel
Saddlebags, whose passion was collecting penny-in-
the-slot machines, and he plunged into an orgy of
company promoting. There follows a wild tale on the
theme of big business in which the sleep-easies are
made into a religion, a political force and a new art
movement, in the interest of profit. The satire would
be withering if it were not so absurd ; it bites, but it
bites with false teeth. It is a good-humored reductio
ad absurdum embellished with traditional jokes.
It is only part of the entertainment. The satire
of big business, the gullible public and the regiment
of religious and artistic cranks is enclosed in another
satire more subtle and more closely woven. This is
the mocking picture of the author at work. Pry is
shown prowling in search of local color, taking cheer-
fully malicious revenge on his friends by impaling
them in his book, suffering agonies of disillusionment,
of hope, vanity and cynicism, getting stuck and coming
unstuck, and venting it all on his wife.
Unreal as the whole book is, Pry himself man-
ages to be real, a genuine human being caught in
the web of an absurd world. There are moments, as
when Pry quarrels with his wife, in hospital, when
the book reaches a poignancy that is at variance with
its general tone and is like to wreck it.
The truth is that Asleep in the Afternoon is a
curious mixture, its form amorphous, its content
jumbled, yet somehow it manages to survive and pro-
vide good entertainment page by page. The end is
happy ; Pry’s novel survives all the machinations of
the publisher and the reviewers and is a best-seller.
What E. C. Large is getting at is hard to determine,
but perhaps he is offering a clue when he writes, “To
steer away from death and war, it’s best not to talk
about death and war, but to give rein to their oppo-
sites. I’d rather a happy tale of love and strange
adventures.” Certainly, despite the pen he brandishes
at big business, his book is escapist to the last comma.
Preparing for War.
Instead of the books of a few years back exposing
the horror and filth and futility of war, books dealing
with preparations for the next shambles now pour out
in such spate that anyone reading the lot of them
would be doing nothing else. A solid job in the latest
bagful is Major-General Henry Rowan-Robinson’s
Imperial Defence (Muller, Ltd.).
Like most writers of such books, this author feels
obliged to suggest how the next war might be averted.
Neither we nor other sated Powers will avert the
conflict except either by a redistribution of possessions,
which to be of value would need a reorganisation of
territory likely to take years to envisage and prepare,
or by presenting a national front so strongly organised
as to deprive a potential aggressor of the temptation of
easy prey.
These must not be employed as separate methods,
but must be combined. But:
It is not to be supposed that peace-loving nations
will stand for ever prepared: they will weaken some
day to the call of a specious pacifism and be over-
whelmed. Nor that huge armaments can exist for long
without some risk of explosion of parallel magnitude.
The best the “possessor nations” can do is to
strengthen “their forces so that they need not yield
to threats, and at the same time cultivate harmony in
international relations.” Which appears to be identi-
cal with the Chamberlain recipe.
That out of the way, the author feels free to
settle down to a careful consideration of the various
fighting services and fighting strategy. He writes as
an expert, and the greater part of his book is for
specialists—for Army, Navy and Air Force men as
interested as he is in the technical and theoretical
aspects of warfare. On the way, however, he adven-
tures sufficiently outside those limits to engage the
general reader.
He holds that the significant fact about the
totalitarian States is not that they are more aggressive
by nature than democracies; the democracies of
France and Britain, in building up their empires, dis-
played an acquisitiveness almost without parallel. The
crucial features of the totalitarian States are their
efficiency for war, their power of seizing the initiative,
of quick decision, of control of the whole national
machine. Our democratic system, though otherwise
excellent, is comparatively weak as an instrument of
war. His remedy includes a small committee of the
Cabinet, formed with the special role of ensuring the
quick and efficacious dispatch of the business of gov-
ernment, and a Ministry of Defence, containing a
combined general staff.
"Straw in the Hair."
Denys Kilham Roberts, who edits Straw in the
Hair (Bodley Head), drags in, among others, both
Shakspeare and Ogden Nash on the pretext that they
suffer from the odd complaint implied in the title.
Roberts’s sub-title is “An anthology of nonsensical
and surrealist verse,” and in an appropriately befoozled
introduction he justifies his extraordinary selections on
the ground that nonsense isn’t necessarily funny.
True enough, but nonsense should at least be nonsense.
Scientifically, perhaps, the witches’ song from
“Macbeth” is nonsense, but poetically it’s perfectly
straightforward, neither nonsense nor surrealism. And
Ogden Nash is neither a nonsense-maker nor a sur-
realist, but a maker of slick epigrams:
The pig, if I am not mistaken,
Supplies us sausage, ham and bacon.
Let others say his heart is big—
I call it stupid of the pig.
But however much one wants to quarrel with
Roberts over the definition of nonsense, there can’t be
any disputing that Straw in the Hair is a delightful
collection. There is an exquisite ballad by Walter de
la Mare about a man who got lost in yesterday, and
also his “Song of the Mad Prince”:
Who said, “Ay, mum’s the word”?
Sexton to willow:
Who said, “Green dusk for dreams,
Moss for a pillow”?
Who said, “All Time’s delight
Hath she for narrow bed;
Life’s troubled bubble broken”? —
That’s what I said.
Blake chimes in with “Long John Brown and
Little Mary Bell,” a “surrealist” poem that certainly
makes sense. Beaumont and Fletcher and Skelton
are drawn on, and then there is a fine poem, “Black
Magic,” by Herbert Palmer, which was first published
only a few months ago in an English periodical:
She had mice teeth and an owl’s mouth,
That white bitch of the moonbeams;
“Let her stuff it and grow tusks,”
Cried I to the tide streams,
“There’s tar of coal and henbane
And asp pudding in the hull’s hold.
Let her bite them and get pain
And turn grey in her hair’s gold.”
Old and new poets are pleasantly jumbled together
throughout. Osbert Sitwell, writing about “the coast
of Coromandel,” is maliciously placed next to Edward
Lear on the same subject. Edith Sitwell, writing about
a sea voyage, is placed, with rather less point, next to
Lewis Carroll on the hunting of the Snark. The
Edith Sitwell poem is one of the most amusing of her
incantations in Bucolic Comedies, ending)
She is tough as the armorian
Leather that the saurian
Sun spreads over the
Sea —
So she saved my life,
Did the mother of my wife —
Who is more than a mother to,
Me!
The orthodox nonsense-writers, Lear and Carroll,
are generously treated, and Chesterton, Squire, Belloc
and Quiller-Couch in their moments of abandon make
a pleasant company. Chesterton is represented by
the ballade about not hanging himself and the ballad
about Noah’s lapse from grace. Squire has the in-
genious “Ballade of Soporific Absorption” with the
envoi:
So, Prince, you suggest I’ve bolted my shot!
Well, like what you say, and soul your damn!
I’m an upple litset by the talk you rot —
But I’m not so think as you drunk I am.
Quiller-Couch, with “The Famous Ballad of the
Jubilee Cup,” is even more merrily muddled than
Squire:
The Lascar made the running, but he didn’t amount to much,
For old Oom Paul was quick on the ball, and headed it back
to touch ;
And the whole first flight led off with the right as The Saint
took up the pace,
And drove it clean to the putting-green and trumped it there
with an ace.
Roberts has done a good deed by including verses
from Patrick Barrington (“Dum-Dum” of “Punch”),
who is one of the cleverest of contemporary light-verse
writers. He has omitted Barrington’s magnificent
ballad of the countryside that begins:
She was an easygoing cow, a credit to her kind
For quality of produce and tranquillity of mind,
Who gradually found herself afflicted with an utter
Disrelish for her daily task of making milk and butter,
but he has printed the story of the duck-billed platypus
which ruined a notable career in diplomacy by laying
an egg in the Bulgarian Legation, and he has the most
distinguished of all literary hippopotami:
I had a hippopotamus; I loved him as a friend-
But beautiful relationships are bound to have an end
Time takes, alas! our joys from us and robs us of our blisses •
My hippopotamus turned out a hippopotamissis.
Barrington’s, too, is the entrancing love-song:
My love is a Theosophist—
Or, rather, is no longer;
For, though her Ego-urge was strong,
The Cosmic Will was stronger.
While moving on the Higher Plane
She moved into a lorry.
My love was a Theosophist,
And really I’m not sorry.
For a change from the sophisticated humorists
there are, besides Shakspeare and De la Mare, mad
poems such as the anonymous “Sonnet Found in a
Deserted Madhouse” with its passionate conclusion:
Ah no, Love, not while your hot kisses burn
Like a potato riding on the blast,
and there are popular rhymes ranging from nursery
songs known by everyone to the simple charm of this
epitaph found on a tombstone in Leeds:
Here lies my wife,
Here lies she;
Hallelujah!
Hallelujee!
Possibly through some obscure association of
ideas the publishers have bound the tome in a yellow
cloth that really should not exist outside a nightmare.
"Symphonie Fantastique."
First Movement: Visions and Passions. —Horses
and hounds are the father’s pastime, but the son wants
to dance. The mother writes: “As soon as he was
really able to run he began to dance, and life became
a burden to me or to any of my friends who could
play the piano for him to dance to it.” Dancing
lessons ; singing lessons. He becomes “a brat earning
two pounds a week” under Seymour Hicks. Musical
comedy with Jack Buchanan. Troubles under Max
Reinhardt in Berlin. Disaster in Spain.
Second Movement: A Ball. —Conglomerate bril-
liance from London, Paris, Monte Carlo. Duke and
Duchess of Windsor, Noel Coward, Michael Arlen,
Big Bill Tilden, “Mis.” Holidays ; dancing at cabarets.
Third Movement: In the Country. —Teaching the
little Belita to dance. Adorable Lilian Harvey. The
birth of British ballet. Tour with Markova. The
sad meeting with Nijinsky.
Fourth Movement: The Procession to Fame. —
“A march that is alternately sombre and wild, bril-
liant and solemn accompanies the procession. The
tumultuous outbursts are followed without modulation
by measured steps.”
Fifth Movement: The Witches’ Sabbath. —“He is
present at the witches’ dance, surrounded by horrible
spirits, amidst sorcerers and monsters in many fearful
forms, who have come to assist at his funeral. Strange
sounds, groans, shrill laughter, distant yelling. The
beloved melody is heard again.”
Present choreographer, admitting that the feuds
of the ballet aren’t really a “Witches’ Sabbath,” and
admitting that the book as a whole is much too
pleasant to be related to the “Symphonie Fantastique”
of the stage, submits the foregoing as an impression
of Anton Dolin’s Ballet Go Round (Michael Joseph).
It should interest ballet fans.
Reviewed Briefly.
General . . .
“The Melbourne Walker” : The little magazine of
the Melbourne Walking and Touring Club. Tramping
round the countryside seems to develop powers of
reflection and expression, and 15 members contribute
readable essays.
Part and Whole Methods of Presentation : M. M.
Griffiths (Melbourne Uni. Press). Highly technical
exposition of the results obtained by two rival methods
of instruction. In one method a general view is given
of the whole field of the subject before attacking
details ; in the other details are attacked first. Three
exhaustive tests are reviewed and the summing up
favors the “whole” method.
Cancer and Tuberculosis in Melbourne Suburbs:
Dr. T. Cherry (Melb. Uni. Press). Analyses the cancer
statistics of the metropolitan area for 1931-35 and
compares them with those of England, N. S. Wales,
Queensland and the whole State of Vic. for (933.
Conclusion is that industrial suburbs have a higher
incidence of cancer (and tuberculosis) than the rest ot
the city and the rest of the State.
Water Gardening: Frances Perry (Country Life).
One of the beautiful authoritative books put out by
these publishers from time to time. It deals practically
with all aspects of aquatic gardening —the making ot
the ponds, choice and care of plants giving some
lovely examples in photo, illustrations.
To-morrow’s War: Stephen T. Possony (Hodge).
Another of the bracing works touching on the next
• war, this one so highly technical that it can’t contribute
much to the general jitters. It’s on planning, manage-
ment and cost; a weighty tome for the military
expert with some turn for economics.
Us Dogs: G. Cornwallis-West (Country Life).
Illustrated autobiography of a Labrador. Warrante
enjoyable to any member of a Tailwaggers Club.
Red Hunters of the Snows: Philip Godsell (fLdek
“Impelled by an adventurous desire to live among: t e
Indians,” the author went out from England in
as a Hudson Bay Co. clerk, and has been adventuring
among the snow-country Indians pretty we
since. Explains their manners, habits and custom
a warm admirer.


mmm
/
iMSS*
>:*>.V£lxlv
m
:
:$*M :
||||||
+vg&
$ \>V\
■>>. r
, '!
mm
«***■
fes?& \ -,%%
N>* VSferi
>v<y
>;:A?
mm
S 8»
fiifll
>:¥*!>?¥: •'>
>f.%
*■s ><. Jf v '>:■'*'
• iiiiSx’S i'K' r. «*'■' '% " '*\?S
;>**• , s-> < /x->*ls
\-'f
j:' : > i. >- > . -A \> v :
v
V J^-
\ v>vi: ; V •>'“ ‘ X-V •:••: x' y *•• i'•
' \,.yv- .x M
K \;-YZ-S
F^tS^lkll
M i: /A . • <?ss§&.
- -;':':‘v.'viv:vXy.'-S>v???!yS
*?*:
as
XTO
«£
? | $i
L : Ss#kj
saass
m i.
* V „**.#<>*»* 1
IS
P'v^
a*.
sss
WSS
v.-^Av^
Pi
■ ®S
sps
!«yX<v;-AV.\v.:;>w»
* !
V'j
ws&s
#
\
Trill
THE NEW HUDSON 6 CYLINDER
“ONE-TWELVE” for six passengers,
now brings Hudson ownership within
the reach of all. Available in Stand-
ard and De Luxe Sedans, Coupes,
Roadster, Coupe Utility and Road-
ster Utility. 86 H.P. 112''
Wheel-base.
of the three completely
Hudsons for 1939 is the
beautiful Hudson 4 ‘One-Twelve”
—now introduced to Australia
V
for the first time. Striking new
exterior design . . . new interior luxury
and six passenger comfort . . . plus a
wealth of new features that make driving
a new, easier and safer experience.
With Auto-Poise Control, a remarkable
new Hudson invention, wheels hold
to a true line automatically ... on any
road, at any speed. Potholes, corru-
gations, even heavy side winds do not
swerve your car from its course.
Thus, to Hudson, already outstanding
for the brilliance and economy of its
performance, the strength and dura-
bility of its construction and the
number of its safety features, comes
an ease and sureness of control entirely
new to ANY car.
Drive the new Hudson “Qne-Twelve”
and see for yourself.
A COMBINATION OF GREAT FEATURES
NO OTHER CAR PROVIDES
ds
Ne iv Auto - Poise
Centro/.
Brings a wholly new driv-
ing ease—ensuring perfect
control of your car. Wheels
hold their course auto-
matically on any road at
any speed.
HYDRAULIC P'«> MECHANICAL
\ RESERVE
ON SAM! FOOT PCDAI
Dc üble Safa
Brakes.
4-wheel Hydraulics for
general use. For emer-
gency use, if ever needed,
a separate mechanical
system operates auto-
matically from same pedal.
5
New Handy Gear
Change.
Allows ‘gear changing
without moving the hand
more than an inch or two
from the steering wheel.
The same familiar gear
positions.
X
New Das? -locking
Safety Bonnet.
The sturdy, one-piece
bonnet is hinged at the
front . . . wind just closes
it tighter. L.atch controiled
from inside the car! When
you lock your car . . . you
lock your bonnet! Battery
and engine parts theft-
proof.
I
m
Ne iv Ca rry- 4 // Lug-
gage Compartment
Brings luggage space to a
new high—2oJ cu. ft. in
the compartment! Tire
stands upright at the side;
easy to slip in and out.
Note handy tool ldcker.
fd
Radial Safety Con-
trol (Custom and
Country Club Models).
Safest, sturdiest front-
end construction ever
designed. The massive
I-beam front axle is held
in perfect alignment by
two forged radial arms
. . . leaving the long, leaf
springs with nothing to
do but cushion your ride.
H 2.48
.HUDSON MOTOR CAR COMPANY
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Sir John Young Cres., Woolloomooloo, Sydney
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS LTD.
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide
Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY. LTD.
140-144 Exhibition St., Melbourne, C.l
West Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS. LTD.
1016 Hay Street, Perth
Queensland Distributors:
OVERLAND LTD.
Cnr. Constance & Wickham Streets,
Brisbane
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO. LTD.
53-73 Bathurst Street, Hobart
Brisbane Street, Launceston


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
Jj tfb’d Hone ofWie mellcwncM andlouc/fiiet
TROOPING OF THE COLOUR ON HORSE GUARDS PARADE.
London, despite claims advanced for its adherence to what is termed “the strictly modern,” still retains its love for. pageantry, whether
that pageantry has its genesis in the dim vistas of an almost forgotten past, or maybe but of comparative—that is, a few centuries —creation.
No more picturesque and stirring ceremonial is offered to Londoners and those visitors within its gates, who hail from every section of the
Seven Seas, than that which marks the birthday of the ruling Sovereign, known as “The Trooping of the Colour.” On the parade ground,
just off the celebrated thoroughfare, Whitehall, which connects Trafalgar Square and the Houses of Parliament, once a tilting or tournament
“yard,” will be noted as overlooking it the statue of Lord Kitchener and the striking Guard’s Memorial, an emblem to the men of the
brigade of Guards who made the supreme sacrifice in the World’s War. Here this fine and appealing piece of pageantry is to be seen.
The architectural surroundings of the parade ground, the comparatively new Admiralty Building and the venerable “father of the War
Office,” present a curious blend of to-day and yesterday. To add impressiveness to the spectacle of the Trooping of the Colour, music
is wisely employed. The massed bands of the Coldstreams, Grenadiers, Irish, Scots and Welsh Guards render the air supercharged with
military musical cadences. During all of this, what is termed “the King’s Guard” marches past the Sovereign mounted on a charger,
and behind whom, similarly mounted, are stationed the military attaches of the Embassies accredited to the Court of St. James. The
Sovereign takes the salute of the troops as they pass. Generally, from an upper facade of the Admiralty, customarily draped with
bunting, the Queen and members of the Royal family witness this imposing piece of ceremonial. To-day, the Trooping of the Colour
possesses a significance those who lived in the “Tilt-days,” and even later, could never have contemplated. In a sense the Tilt-days may
be said to have reached their apex when Elizabeth sat upon the throne, days witnessing the beginning of that new era in the history of
the race which to-day may be comprehended in the designation, the British Commonwealth of Nations. The ceremony of the Trooping
of the Colour, externally allied it is true with the panoply of war, has a deeper or Imperial significance, to all of which the colourful'
pageantry and stirring national music of the massed bands lend impressiveness.


AUSTRALIA TO HOLLYWOOD.
"Hollywood is making an ‘Australian’ photo-play, described as ‘a rugged and romantic saga of Australian colonisation.’ Laughter of kookaburras was to have been ‘an
integral part of the script.’ Four kookaburras, hired for $200 a day from a bird park, ignored all attempts to make them laugh until the sound equipment had been
dismantled in disgust. Then, perched on an artificial tree, they laughed long and loud, stopping before the equipment could be remounted. They have not laughed since."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westraha : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton Quay,
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
LLOYDS: 32 TO 1 NO WAR.
Because of the Great Parliamentary Loaf a wonderful
opportunity is being missed. Two months back Lloyds
offered 32 to 1 against the chances of a major war this
year. A beggarly £2,000,000 invested at these juicy
odds would foot the whole bill for Australia’s three-
years’ defence “plan,” leaving £1,000,000 over for
Ministerial globetrotting and junketing under the
apple-boughs.
Mr. Lyons’s “slender thread” would have to snap
before he could collect, but the P.M. evidently makes
that his home-and-hosed special. The odds by now
should be even better; perhaps Mr. Lyons is biding
his time, and, when the “thread” shows the right
amount of fraying, will bring off a sensational plunge
at £63,000,000 to a brace of koalas. The P.M. would
then be able to preen himself like any other tipster
who brings off a winner occasionally; meanwhile,
there are a lot of tipsters abroad, apart from Lloyds,
who would shy at taking less than a king’s ransom
to a brace of dead cats on this event.
The curious state of affairs is that while Aus-
tralia hears no reassuring word but only the most
alarming statements from its Prime Minister and
battalion of second-fiddles, the diametrically opposite
view of the world situation is at the very same time
being voiced by Mr. Chamberlain and many other
responsible persons in Britain and elsewhere. The
only locally-applied brake to official scaring has been
Mr. Savage’s single sentence cabled across from
Maoriland:
I can see nothing in the present situation to get
excited about.
Mr. Lyons, who has exactly the same information
as Mr. Savage, has been fussing about in an excited
dither for months. Not only Mr. Lyons: Mr. Hughes
has well-nigh burst his lungs bawling hysterical warn-
ings ; Mr. Stevens, Mr. Bruxner and a host of others
have taken up the shivering chorus. Not a solitary
responsible person has so far come forward with any
contrary reading of the world situation. Nowhere in
the land —not even from among Canberra’s far-flung
Opposition—has any voice spoken out even to ques-
tion whether the Prime Minister and chorus are right
or only spouting through their hats.
Yet there is ample support for such a view in the
day-by-day utterances of responsible persons in Britain
and other countries where they have a close view of
whatever preliminary gallops are going on. Mr.
Chamberlain’s recent comment on people who “go
on frightening themselves by feeding their imagina-
tions on improbable hypotheses” was clearly not re-
stricted to “members opposite” in the Commons.
Further as antidote to the jitters Mr. Chamberlain in-
sisted that the policy of appeasement is steadily suc-
ceeding and that “our prestige abroad to-day stands
higher than ever it has been before.”
Mr. Chamberlain never makes a speech now with-
out some such references. On another recent occasion
he made the intentionally reassuring statement (only a
fragment of it cabled):
To-day the air is full of rumors and suspicions
which ought not to be allowed to persist. For peace
can only be endangered by a challenge to dominate
the world by force. I cannot believe that any such
challenge is intended, for the consequences of war for
the peoples on either side would be so grave that no
Government which has their interests at heart would
lightly embark upon them.
I remain convinced that there are no differences,
however serious, that cannot be solved without recourse
to war, by consultation and negotiation, as was laid
down in the declaration signed by Herr Hitler and
myself at Munich. Let us then continue to pursue
the path of peace and conciliation, but until we can
agree on a general limitation of arms let us continue
to make this country strong. Then, conscious of our
strength, avoiding needless alarms equally with careless
indifference, let us go forward to meet the future with
the calm courage which enabled our ancestors to win
through their troubles a century and a quarter ago.
This is a very different story from the one re-
iterated by Mr. Lyons, who has done as much as he
could to put Australia in a panic with his dismal
babbling about “peace hanging by a slender thread”
and his other rhetorical pronouncement, the only pos-
sible interpretation of which is that this country is
under a present positive threat of invasion.
Not only Mr. Chamberlain, but his responsible
Ministers, as well as sundry newspapers, are now out
to crush the jitter-bugs in England. Thus, Sir Samuel
Hoare the other day ridiculing those “who go about
the world with white faces and trembling lips asking
which day of the week and of the month the world
war is going to begin.”
These timid panic-mongers are doing very great
harm. They are undermining public confidence. They
are creating a fatal feeling of the inevitability of war,
when there is no such inevitability at all. They sit
listening to all the hot music of the scares and alarms,
waiting helplessly for the crash that, according to them,
will destroy us all.
Again, Sir Samuel:
There are two incontrovertible facts that stand out
to-day from an obscure background of fears and guesses.
The first is the passionate desire of the people of Europe
for peace. The second is the invincibility of Great
Britain and the British Empire.
Both Mr. Malcolm MacDonald and Sir John
Simon have since spoken to the theme: “Don’t jitter
—Britain is strong and secure in her strength.” Mr.
MacDonald ridiculed the war talk, much of which,
he said, was based on the “extraordinary assumption”
that Britain was weak. Sir John Simon suggested that
“every citizen to-day has a contribution to make to
his country, not only in voluntary service, but in giv-
ing no countenance to idle rumor.”
Lord Nuffield, on the eve of leaving England for
his present visit to Australia, said that “the increasing
efforts of Mr. Chamberlain to secure enduring peace
in Europe will, I believe, meet with the great success
they deserve,” and he counselled his hearers to “dis-
regard the pessimists and gloom-mongers.” Mr.
Boothby, M.P., is another among the lately vocal
gloom-chasers, insisting that “there will be no major
European war this year.” Mr. William Randolph
Hearst, the U.S.A. newspaper magnate, is yet another
of them:
I do not think there is the slightest likelihood of a
general European war for the next few years.
Even Dr. Benes, the former Czech President, only a
few days back “expressed the opinion that a war in
Europe was unlikely.” In England, though not yet in
Australia, newspapers are joining in the jitter-bug
crushing. Among others, the “Daily Express” declares
flatly:
There will be no war involving Britain in 1939.
The “Advertiser’s Weekly” suggests it is time the scare-
mongers believed “what the leaders of this country
have told them since September: ‘There will be no
war.’ ”
While every mail adds further proof of this grow-
ing confidence and optimism abroad, in Australia Mr.
Lyons maintains that his alarming view of the situa-
tion is the right one: “Would that you knew while
there is yet time” that Australia is closely threatened
with invasion. Yet Parliament is to continue its costly
loaf on into April, with the noisy voluntary recruiting
stunts the best the Government can manage towards
meeting the disaster, the threat of which is the only
thing the Prime Minister feels any certainty about.
It only remains for Mr. Lyons to come along
later with the explanation that it was his raising of
70,000 —probably temporary —recruits which averted
this dire calamity, and a place will be assured for
him in the niche Fame reserves for heavy comedians.
Branch Lines and Bankruptcy.
Mr. Forgan Smith, talks about closing some of
Queensland’s branch railways, and there is ample
warrant for it. Branch lines have been the curse of
Queensland railway finance But the moment the
Premier makes a definite proposal he will be met
with loud howls from vested interests, and the loudest
will come from the local member, who considers he
has a vested interest in his job.
Originally Queensland railways were planned by
men who knew their business with a view to decen-
tralisation. There are three long main systems reach-
ing out from the coast to the cattle and sheep country
of the west, with a linking coastal line. These have
always been assets. Even when sections have shown
losses, they have been worth while, since without them
neither the big towns and ports which they feed nor
western pastoral and mineral industries could have
lived.
Most of the s.-westera line pays. So does the
whole of the Q.C.R., from Rockhampton to Long-
reach. The same is true of the bulk of the lipe between
Cloncurry and Townsville, and of all of those between
Rockhampton and Mackay and Townsville and Cairns.
By reason of their length, the nature of their traffic
and the lack of first-class parallel roads, they can hold
their own against motor competition. Shorter political
and closer-settlement lines can’t. Built as “feeders”
to bring in the produce of “developmental” areas, they
have become “suckers”—of tax-revenue.
The “developmental’Vrailway business flowered in
the 15 years before the war, and fruited in the days
of Theodore. In the beginning it could be argued that
without “developmentals” there was no access to
markets ; roads were bad. It was different when motor-
trucks appeared. Now, with every short railway, it is
a struggle to avoid bankruptcy—or, rather, the appear-
ance of bankruptcy and every M.L.A. concerned
loses sleep trying to think up excuses for the retention
of his particular incubus.
Every main line has a bunch of “feeders.” The
railway from Brisbane to Toowoomba is paralleled by
a good motor road, which runs 115 miles through
one of the richest agricultural districts in Australia.
That line shows a surplus after payment of interest
and redemption charges. But in the 90 miles between
Ipswich and Toowoomba there are four offshoots,
totalling 67.6 miles, which last year failed to return
working expenses.
The Rosewood-Marburg branch illustrates the
reasons why losses occur. Nine miles long, it connects
Marburg to a point on the main line, 11 miles from
Ipswich, the market town, which can be reached direct
by motor-truck from Marburg in 13 miles or so.
Motor-truck carriers, however, must not compete with
the white elephant, which consumed £3184 last year.
A man with a one-ton truck who desires to
operate must pay a tax of 12s. 6d. a day, over and
above ordinary taxes, which include the petrol tax of
7Jd. a gallon. For every half-ton additional truck
capacity ss. per day more must be paid. In effect,
four five-ton trucks taxed at £BOO per year each would
just about recoup the loss on that line. Anybody
who goes into the passenger business with a seven-
passenger vehicle —which would cut the time in get-
ting from Marburg to Ipswich from an hour and a
half to 20 minutes —will be fined £1 ss. per day—if
the Transport Board lets him operate.
The Darling Downs is subject to the sucker sys-
tem as well as the Lockyer. Four of its feeder lines—
Wyreema to Milmerran, Hendon to Goomburra, War-
wick to Maryvale and Killarney to Killarney Junction
—run off the main route within 100 miles. Their total
length is just over 101 miles ; their total loss last year
was £31,010. Further down in that direction there
are the Inglewood-Texas branch, 34 miles (loss, £7050),
and the Cotton Vale-Amiens branch, 12.3 miles (loss,
£2300).
The continuation of the Brisbane-Toowoomba
line to Roma (217 miles) pays—at least on the present
capitalisation basis, a factor which, must be understood
in respect of all Queensland lines. But it has a fine
crop of expensive sprouts. Roma to Injune, 61 miles,
lost in 1937-38 £16,161 ; Dalby to Bell, 23.5 miles,
£3182 ; Miles to Wandoan, 43 miles, £6192 ; Oakey to
Cecil Plains, 39 miles, £6442 ; Kingsthorpe to Haden,
20.5 miles, £5155.
The same sort of thing can be seen operating
south of Brisbane. On the line to Tweed Heads, 77
miles, supposed to feed watering-places to which most
people—following the example of politicians with free
railway passes —travel by road, despite the restrictive
Logan River toll, £110,173 was lost in 1937-38. One
of its branches, Logan Village to Canungra, 20.5 miles,
ate up £5335 of tax-money. Brisbane-Maryborough
pays, but on its Monkland to Brooloo branch, 25.3
miles, £9160 went west in a twelvemonth.
The Central District has a bunch of non-paying
boarders which set the State back over £lOO,OOO a
year. Between Rockhampton and Longreach (pay-
ing), there are Springsure Junction to Springsure,
Emerald to Blair Athol, Jericho to Yaraka and a
number of others nearly all actually bankrupt. The
North has three more which cost the general taxpayer
£46,000 a year. The Tolga-Millaa Millaa connection
on the Atherton Tableland went £18,140 to the bad
(about £5OO a mile) last year, and Mr. Theodore’s pet
Mareeba-Mungana section, 102 miles, made away with
£31,892. Altogether 51 branches and sections cannot
meet working expenses in full, let alone interest.
In the southern Queensland division 942 miles out
of 2818 pay their way, as capital outlay is reckoned. In
the Central Division this is done by 926 miles out
of 1673 ; in the North by 818.11 miles out of 1283.
In Cairns, where mountain ranges, expensive bridg-
ing, heavy rains and annual floods increase costs, only
50 miles out of 527 make ends meet.
When it first became evident where branch
lines were heading, Governments sheltered them with
all the devotion of a mother protecting her erring
child. To make their figures look better, branch lines
were credited not only with actual earnings but with
a bonus allowance from main lines —a sort of com-
mission on loading. It varied according to distance
from port, and in some cases amounted to 50 p.c. of
the main line’s receipts from branch traffic.
By 1931 the general position had become so desper-
ate that branch lines which looked as if their business
might stand it. were declared main lines. At the same
time the railway debt was “written down” from
£63,000,000 to £35,000,000, a proceeding which hid the
liability from the taxpayers’ sight without removing
the burden from their backs. After this operation, the
branch lines appeared to be capitalised at only
£9,000,000 instead of a previous £25,000,000. It has
not prevented them from being almost wholly respon-
sible for the railway deficit of £129,000 last year and
an increase in capital during the past five years of
£4,500,000 odd.
Queensland is not the only State which is suffer-
ing from the branch- and short-line disease. It is
largely responsible for the financial plight of the
N. S. Wales railways, which may add £2,000,000 this
year to accumulated losses ; and lines of compara-
tively recent construction, such as Unanderra-Moss
Vale, Glenreagh-Dorrigo and Tempe-East Hills, are
showing the worst results. These three lines, with a
total length of 92 miles, have been known to lose
£192,000 in one year. The Victorian railways are
expected to show a deficit of £1,000,000 this year,
though £30,000,000 of capital was “written off” in
1936 ; here again the department’s desperate troubles
mainly come from short hauls. Tasmania, where
it is most difficult to keep out motor traffic, also
followed Queensland “policy” and wrote down rail-
way capital from £6,595,461 to £1,973,581 on July 1,
1936, thus apparently cutting the interest bill from
£244,504 to £83,000. Nevertheless the little State last
year had a railway deficit of £229,000. Earnings were
£478,000, and they were £50,000 short of working
expenses.
The branch-line canker is one of the many reasons
why control of all railways should be transferred to the
Commonwealth. State Ministries are too involved in
branch-line electorates and too subject to the pressure
of parish-pump and local-member influences to deal
effectively with the situation. Apart from the con-
fusion caused by the existence of sft. 3in., 4ft.
and 3ft. 6in. gauges, State Government “policy of
compelling the public to support the railways by
attacking its liberties has quite obviously tailed.
Financial chaos has come again.
EL VERDUGO.


"The Bulletin ”
Short Story Competition
THE FIRST PRIZE, £7O,
has been awarded to
Mrs. H. Drake-Brockman, 9 Venn-street,
Cottesloe, W.A., for
“ANTI-CLIMAX.”
THE SECOND PRIZE, £l5,
goes to
Henry G. Lamond, of Lindum, Brisbane,
for
“THE CONQUEROR.”
THE THIRD PRIZE, £lO,
has been won by
A. C. Headley, 4 Egan-street, Newtown,
N.S.W., for
“TWENTY-ONE.”
A FIVE-POUND PRIZE was offered for a
Brief Story. K. R. Cragg, of 46 Albert-
road, Strathfield, Sydney, is the winner;
the title of his story is
“THE GIRL AT THE SPORTS.”
“The Conqueror” is printed in the
current issue of “The Bulletin.” "Twenty-
one” was published in B. 1 8/1 /’39, and
“The Girl at the Sports” in B. 19/10/’3B.
“Anti-Climax” will appear next week.
Westralians have been conspicuously
successful in “Bulletin” competitions.
There is nothing fortuitous about it; the
work of Walter Murdoch at the University
and of enthusiasts on the State’s excellent
teaching body is, among other things,
creating the atmosphere in which good
writing is done.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Rush of Refugees.
As Minister McEwen put it in the House on Decem-
ber 1, “the Government of the Commonwealth was
invited, with the Governments of the other Dominions
and his Majesty’s Government in the United King-
dom, to consider the plight of many thousands of
unfortunate people as the result of recent happenings
in Europe.” The Canadian Government replied that it
was sorry, but it must consider its own unemployed.
For the British Government Lord Winterton said last
week to the Inter-Governmental Committee on
Refugees that Britain was “not in a position to offer
more than a temporary refuge to any large number
of involuntary immigrants.”
But Mr. McEwen’s Government had a rush of
humanitarianism to the head. It “decided that Aus-
tralia should assist to the extent of receiving up to
15,000 refugees over a term of three years.” Mr.
McEwen gave these undertakings.
The Government will approve of only the admission
of those classes whose entry into Australia will not
disturb existing labor conditions.
In all cases, permits for the admission of refugees
within the limits of the number I have mentioned will
be granted strictly in accordance with the Government’s
general white alien immigration policy.
It is part of the policy of the Government to plan
that aliens who are given permission to come to Aus-
tralia shall be distributed as widely as is possible through-
out our country, in order to facilitate their assimilation
into our population, and the Government maintains a
steady policy against facilitating or permitting undue
aggregation of aliens in any particular towns or centres.
The last paragraph has already been shown to
be all eyewash. Without a word from Mr. McEwen’s
Government, the great majority of the refugees are
congregating in overcrowded cities, chiefly Sydney.
As was inevitable, they have begun to compete with
Australians for jobs, as witness the case of the Austrian
engineer appointed to the staff of Sydney’s so-called
County Council. And trade-union secretaries protest
that refugees are producing cheap-labor goods in back
rooms, and the A.W.U. convention, which cannot be
ignored in these matters, has asked for preventive
legislation “immediately.”
“S. M. Herald” has constituted itself the press
champion of the refugees. Granny’s sentiments
resemble those of Wordsworth about the cuckoo:
O blithe newcomer, I have heard,
I hear thee, and rejoice!
The old girl turned savagely on the County Councillor
who had objected to the Austrian appointment. And
although she should know all about conditions in the
woolgrowing and the wheatgrowing industries, and
their effects on Government finance and general em-
ployment, she denounced the 15,000 limit —if it is a
limit —as too small. (Incidentally, the American dele-
gate to the Inter-Governmental Committee on
Refugees intimated that his great country “is taking
nearly 3000 refugees from Germany a year.”)
Granny is apt to get confused about the situation
of the German Jews in their homeland. One day she
says it is “desperate.... the second instalment of the
fine imposed after the Vom Rath affair yielded only
£6,000,000 instead of the expected £20,000,000” ; the
next, that “refugees from Europe are expected to
bring £4,500,000 in new capital into Australia in the
next three years.” The truth seems to be that the
Germans have modified the anti-Jewish measures that
shocked the democratic world; according to one
account, there is to be no expulsion of 200,000 Jews
who are old or infirm or both.
The Lyons Government will not be allowed to
forget that it promised to protect Australian industrial
standards, and to prevent “undue aggregation of
aliens” in particular places. In the long run, it will
be better for aliens, as well as Australians, if these
pledges are kept.
"Too Old at Fifty."
“An all-round reduction in the retiring ages of senior
army officers” has, it seems, been recommended to
the Government by Lieut.-General Squires. It is
denied that the recommendation is for “an all-round
reduction of five years,” but “it is believed” to be that
major-generals should be retired at 60, instead of 62,
brigadier-generals and colonels at 57 instead of 60,
lieut.-colonels at 55 instead of 60, majors “and below”
at 50 instead of 55.
The report goes on to say that “Cabinet is not
expected to adopt the recommendation immediately,
as difficulty is being experienced in obtaining sufficient
trained instructors for the army.” Difficulty would
also be experienced in convincing Diggers that the
army would be all the better for being without A.I.F.
officers at the end of 10 years or so.
Just on 21 years ago, when the situation of the
Allies on the Western Front was very bad, unity of
command was achieved under a French soldier who
was born in 1851, and had been 45 years in the army.
In eight months Foch had received the surrender of
the principal enemy. The Germans were commanded
by Hindenburg, born in 1847. Their best fighting
general was Mackensen, born in 1849. In a series of
campaigns, fought for the most part in winter and in
bad country, Mackensen’s army groups had broken
Russians, Serbs and Rumanians.
If the recommendation made by Lieut.-General
Squires had ruled in Europe in 1914, the French would
have had to do without Foch and the Germans with-
out Hindenburg and Mackensen.
In an age when expectation of life was far below
what it is to-day, an officer who lost an arm at Water-
loo in 1815 led the British Army in the Crimea in
1855, at the age of 67. Raglan may not have been a
first-class general, but his failure in that bitter
peninsula was no failure of age or generalship. Nor
did President McKinley consider the Confederate
Generals Wheeler and Fitzhugh Lee too old to serve
against the Spaniards in Cuba in 1898. He named
each veteran of 1861-65 major-general of cavalry, and
Wheeler—a West-Pointer of the 1859 vintage—showed
that he had retained all his fine fighting qualities.
Though the island was rotten with malaria and yellow
fever, and he fell sick himself, he insisted on holding
heights from which “officers in the rear had wanted
to retire,” and his intrepidity contributed to the short-
ening of the campaign. Afterwards the indomitable
sexagenarian served in the Philippines.
Lieut.-General Squires was born and brought up
in India. His Government should inform him that,
as a general thing, men do not age early in this country
and that hard-and-fast rules born of Indian conditions
cannot be accepted.
Hainan.
“F.S.”: If the Japanese make a permanent acquisition
of Hainan they will have extended the southern horn of
the crescent they have for 25 years been flinging round
China into strange, debatable waters.
Hainan lies athwart the Gulf of Tongking, and
thus dominates the kingdoms of Tongking and Annam,
principalities of French Cochin-China. One and
a half days’ sail across the China Sea lie the Philip-
pines, which idealistic Americans propose to hand
back to their mixed inhabitants along with what they
euphemistically call their independence. The inde-
pendence of the Filipino depends, not on anything he
can do about the matter, but on the good graces of
foreign nations.
The French are as indignant at the Japanese occu-
pation of Hainan as if the Japanese had pinched some-
thing from them; and they see all sorts of sinister
designs on them in the business. Some Australian
newspapers see in it all sorts of sinister designs on
Australia, and there is talk of “taking steps”— i.e.,
providing the conditions for a war on the grand
scale. But none of the protesting parties has asked
itself what else Japan could do than occupy
Hainan, or what else, in the same circumstances, it
would itself have done.
The French began interesting themselves in
Cochin-China as far back as 1787. They did not need
it then, and they do not need it now, as an outlet for
their surplus population. Far from having a surplus
in their homeland, they have a deficit, and are obliged
to import workers to people their own empty pastures.
The Japanese are in quite a different situation.
With a population approaching 80,000,000 and an
annual increase of close on a million, they are con-
fronted with the alternatives either of expanding or
contracting. Even that lowly organism the amceba
refuses to contract in any circumstances whatever.
When it ceases to expand it perishes, unless it can
change itself into a higher species, in which case it
goes on expanding.
No nation in the world has ever voluntarily con-
tracted. The Japanese are no exception.
Hope for Our Fisheries.
Substantial companies have been, or are being,
formed in at least four States for the purpose of de-
veloping Australian fisheries on wide commercial lines,
including export of. processed products. No doubt
politicians will claim the credit, but they have hin-
dered instead of helped.
The Canberra attitude was expressed when a
Minister of Defence refused even to consider Austra-
lian canned fish as an item of supply for the defence
forces until all import sources should fail. Can-
berra’s reply to requests for rebates of tax on petrol
used by offshore fishermen —granted in Maori-
land —has consisted of fumbling excuses about con-
stitutional limitations to extra-territorial waters, and
a fear that revenue might be cheated. Nine-tenths of
Australian fisheries resources are outside the three-mile
territorial limit, and Maoriland does not find fisher-
men any less honest than other citizens. State poli-
ticians are equally futile in respect of matters like
havens, advances on boats and gear, marketing facili-
ties and other elemental assistance granted to the indus-
try by a dozen Dominions and countries which utilise
their seas as important commercial assets.
In the result, the Australian public has been pay-
ing up to £1,500,000 yearly to overseas and foreign
manufacturers for a product the raw material of
which exists in better quality and greater quantity
around Australia’s own shores. At the same time,
employment for thousands of Australians has been
prevented.
Our present methods of taking fish are archaic and
uneconomic. While they remain so prices must be
high. With investment and influence beginning to talk,
such previously impossible matters as tariffs, petrol
rebates and the rest will now be considered. So will
the fact that offshore fisheries provide the best of all
recruiting grounds for a navy.
Building a New Ogpu.
A deputation from the N. S. Wales Police Association
has asked for “greater protection” for constables in
the performance of their duty.
One of the measures which they propose is the
repeal of the law that an arrested person shall be
taken forthwith before a magistrate.
The police say that this “handicaps” them in the
execution of their duty, and ask that the Act shall
be altered to read “may” instead of “shall.”
It has always been a rule of British justice that
no defendant shall be detained an instant longer than
necessary before being allowed to defend himself
before a justice, and to adopt any other system is to
open the way to endless abuses.
Under the altered law, as suggested, there would
be nothing to prevent the police from holding an
unfortunate supposed culprit for days, or even weeks,
while they searched for evidence against him —unless,
of course, somebody went to the expense of invoking
habeas corpus on his behalf.
The N. S. Wales police already have too many
powers, and are too little subject to Parliamentary
control.
Mr. Gollan, the Minister in “charge” of the police,
promised the deputation “an early reply.”
He should have given an instant reply—that he
had every intention of maintaining British standards
of fairplay, and that he would have nothing to do
with a proposal which would help to turn the police
force into a sort of Ogpu.
Foreign Competition in the Air.
“Cockpit” says it must come:
K.L.M., the parent company of the K.N.1.L.M., which
runs an air service from Batavia to Sydney twice a week,
wants to run a similar service from Amsterdam to Sydney.
It is hoped to introduce it in March, 1940, if Common-
wealth permission can be got. The scheme is not palatable
to the Imperial Airways combination which carries the mail.
Its nose has already been pushed slightly to port by the
existing Dutch service from Batavia.
Dutch-owned Lockheeds have flown from Darwin to
Sydney inside 12 hours. The best flying-boat time is 16hrs.
20min. The Dutch with their present machines and no mail
complications could travel from Amsterdam to Sydney in
seven days and keep on time in almost all weathers; the
flying boats on a nine-day schedule, Croydon to Sydney, are
often 24 hours late, though the blame lies with organisation
rather than with the boats. The British-Australasian mail
combination has in view a seven-day service next year. But the
Dutch have for years had in view a four-day service. With
Douglas D.C.4, 20-passenger, 230-m.p.h. machines now build-
ing, and enough traffic to justify the expense, they could
do it easily. Douglases and Lockheeds are built for night
flying, and nearly all their trips in U.S.A. are made in the dark.
Almost overnight there has grown up a series of inter-
national air traffic lines in the part of the world to which
Australia belongs. From U.S.A. points Martin Clippers
have been covering Pacific stages of 2500 to 3000 miles as a
matter of routine. New 74-passenger Boeings are to serve
the Philippines and Maoriland; a linkage between Manila
and Brisbane or Sydney could be made in a single hop.
And it will be surprising if it does not occur to somebody
that a round-trip service, Golden Gate-Manila-Sydney-Auck-
land-Hawaii-Golden Gate, will be worth while. Especially
when the 74-passenger ships are replaced by 100- or 150-
passenger ones, as they inevitably will be.
The Japanese will soon have a service from Japan to
Palau. With that established, it will need only a connection
of less than 1000 miles to join up with Australia via the
established New Guinea-Sydney service. The French, already
operating to Saigon from Paris, might conceivably undertake
a service to Australia as part of a connection with New
Caledonia and the New Hebrides; and it has been hinted
that the Germans have secured a base from the Japanese
with a view to extending their Berlin-Tokio line to Australia.
Be that as it may, it is certain that Australia has come
within two days’ commercial aeroplaning of Asian capitals
and that the next five years will see the Pacific coasts of
America and the African coast within, at most, 48 hours’
reach of the Commonwealth. Foreign entry into the airline
business will have to be taken for granted; especially if
builders of large, heavy-burden machines go in for freight-
carrying.
Foreign competition is nothing to be alarmed about, pro-
vided British and Australian airlines are ready to meet it.
At present they are not; but Dutch Lockheeds and Douglases
and the new fast German passenger-carriers in Europe have
prompted Imperial Airways to design and build Envoys and
Frobishers. One of the Frobishers has flown from Croydon
to Brussels, 200 miles, with 11 passengers and a ton of mail
at 250 m.p.h. and to Marseilles, 641 miles, at 220 m.p.h.
Establishment of a through Dutch line would inevitably result
in such machines being put on the Australian run.
The main thing is to be ready to meet competition and
to take the initiative in organisation. The first machines
(DHB6’s) used on the London-Sydney run were too small and
too slow; the second are too slow, compared with foreign
machines. It has taken years to get an Australian terminal
where a terminal should be, in the centre of greatest traffic.
The sooner somebody with organising ability and vision,
supported by a staff which has had experience of air-traffic
development and modern facilities, is put in control of Aus-
tralian civil aviation the better.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WTH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“El V.”: Time, 9.30 a.m. Place, the
busy intersection of Martin-place and
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Three taxi-
cabs hurtle by, the last almost enveloped
in an enormous flag. There is a glimpse
through a window of three or four
hunched figures and of a face, beneath a
beret, chewing lustily. Scarcely a passer-
by looks up as the procession passes.
“Wonder ’oo they’re playing?” somebody
asks with languid interest. But they are
not playing anybody. They are the re-
turning heroes of the great game of Mos-
cow v. Franco, which has just reached
the last quarter in Spain, where they were
withdrawn from the field at three-quarter
time. And there wasn’t a single cheer
for them from the great-hearted Aus-
tralian public which is supposed to be so
fiercely in favor of intervention in Barce-
lona or somewhere.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The seas have con-
tributed much to the English language—
and a good deal that is printable. When,
for example, Australia lay in the trough
of a wave of depression which seemed
likely to wreck us all, we were at first
taken aback. The sheet-anchor of sound
natural resources kept us from drifting
to disaster, and we weathered the storm.
While still in the troubled waters of a
world-wide ocean of financial difficulties,
commonsense proved our mainstay while
we mapped out a course to safety.
Though black clouds of war threaten in
European skies, we have regained calm
waters. Still, it is too early to justify
us in getting three sheets in the wind to
celebrate the occasion.
* * * *
“Kwakprak”: A basic-wage mother-
of-two casually mentioned to-day a
couple of reasons for low Australian
birthrates which are new to me. Cloth-
ing was one —it cost more for a child
than an adult, in many items. She quoted
shorts, 2s. for her husband, 2s. 6d. for
their nine-year-old son ; sandshoes, 2s. Bd.
and 4s. respectively ; pyjamas, 4s. and 55.;
shoes for herself 7s. 6d., for a seven-
year-old daughter 11s. 6d. She found
there were never any bargains in chil-
dren’s shoes, at least in the country town
where she lives, although occasionally
there were some in clothing. Also, that
it cost substantially more to feed the two
youngsters on, as near as they could get
to, the lines advocated by nutrition
authorities than it did to feed their two
healthy wholesome selves. Her regret was
that these items were quite enough to
keep away the third youngster that she
and her husband would like to have to
balance up the family.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Anyone who feels
pessimistic about Australia’s birthrate
would be cheered up by a visit to the
Infants’ State School at Auchenflower, in
Brisbane. Among the 74 pupils, ranging
from four to nine, are four pairs of twins.
As each set is of the identical type physi-
cally, and also dressed precisely alike,
teachers have considerable difficulty in
identifying them. After careful and pro-
longed study the headmistress considers
that lan Hislop’s nose turns up a fraction
more than does Eric’s, that Don Sawdry
owns more freckles to the square inch
than John has, and that Peter Conway’s
hair is a faint shade darker than Pat’s.
But, with characteristic feminine subtlety,
Fay and Jill Hagget continue to preserve
a baffling duality under precisely similar
exteriors which, so far, has defeated all
attempts at individual recognition.
* * * *
“Raller”: This is black type from Syd-
ney’s “D.T.”:
So unusual is the Norwegian flag in
Sydney Harbor that many people rang
the “D.T.” to ask what flag it was.
There is nearly always a ship of the
Wilhelmsen line at No. 4 Woolloomoo-
“Bit early, ain't you, milk-o?"
100, sometimes, two, and occasionally
a third in the tideway, plus a regular flow
of oilboats, odd traders which call in on
their way to the Pacific.
* * * #
“F.S.”: I have listened respectfully
all my life to praise of the Chinese for
their astounding reverence for education,
but in what way are they any superior
to Melbourne? I know a young lady
who for 11 years tried to complete the
medical course at the University, and at
no time during that period did her
father show the slightest reluctance to
hand out the sums spent on her train-
ing ; on the contrary, he was highly
indignant when she voluntarily gave up
her endeavor. But even her record is
put in the shade by that of an art student
at the leading school of painting in the
metropolis. He still regularly attends
night classes, and usually takes three
months to do one study, carefully rub-
bing out what he has done at the end
of every day and starting all over again
at the next session. His son, aged 40,
is thinking of taking art on now, since
his father has set him such a good
example.
* * * *
“C.R.”: E. .1. Gravestock, the im-
presario, who has just resigned from the
directorate of the Australian and N.Z.
Theatres in Melbourne, has had a long
career in the service of Australian enter-
tainment. The virtuosi he has shepherded
about the country include some of the
most famous names in theatrical and
musical history. On one occasion he
had billed a big Maoriland town with
the name of Backhaus. On the opening
evening it was discovered that the hall
lacked a pianoforte. Backhaus’s instru-
ment had failed to arrive, and the cur-
tain rose on a very diminutive upright
borrowed from the local dealer. Back-
haus consented to sit down at it while
the management was hurrying a better
from another town. He was half-way
through the “Appassionata” when a ter-
rific banging and thumping was heard at
the back of the building. Backhaus’s own
magnificent concert grand had arrived.
It was assembled and wheeled into posi-
tion, but the performer had no sooner
begun to use it when a fresh uproar
announced the arrival of the third emer-
gency.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: An elderly man charged with
lighting a bushfire in Victoria gave a
strangely human reason for his mis-
demeanor. He was leading a lonely life
on the outskirts of a big provincial city,
and he was pining for companionship.
He started a grass fire in a paddock, and
the townsfolk rushed so promptly to
put it out that it was over in a jiffy and
the hermit was once more left to his
isolation. Thereupon he lit another. The
coincidence betrayed him, and he was
handed over for medical inspection.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A maintenance case at South
Melbourne the other day revealed a
somewhat Asiatic sense of values.
Aggrieved wife asserted that she had
been in bad health, was under medical
care and needed a holiday, but her hus-
band allowed her only 20 bob a week,
which he apparently considered entirely
adequate for a woman. It turned out,
however, that he was paying 255. a week
instalments on a car, and when he was
asked whether he considered the car or
his wife the more valuable the logical
answer was, of course, “the car.” Asked
if he was prepared to give up the car
in the interests of the woman, he re-
torted that he wasn’t. The Court dis-
agreed with him profoundly, and ordered
him to increase the allowance to his wife
by 15s. a week.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: This was not a freak stunt
for a wager. A crippled boot-polish
tradesman of Woodend (Vic.), 42 miles
from Melbourne on the Calder Highway,
decided that, trade being bad owing to
the bushfires, it would be better to move
to the metropolis. He did the journey
in one day of eight hours in the three-
wheeled invalid chair to which he has
been confined since childhood. A motor-
cyclist towed him up one hill. Other-
wise he travelled under his own power.
* * *
“Hamer”: The retirement of Jim Mc-
Kay from the job of Chief Ranger in
the N.S.W. Blue Mountains recalls that
in the early days when McKay ranged
unassisted and bush despoliation was
rife notices were posted offering rewards
of £5O for information leading to the ap-
prehension and conviction of despoilers.
That was right into the hands of some
of Sydney’s minor criminals. Fares
to the Mountains were cheap; once
there, Ned Kelly got busy on uprooting
a tree-fern while his mate Ben Hart
dashed off in search of the ranger. Kelly
went to gaol and Hart collected the re-
ward. Magistrates did not regard the
despoiling very seriously, and at a time
when laborers earned 30s. a week £5O
was good pay for a few weeks in gaol,
But on one occasion the man whoTiad
done the time for the mutual benefit
came out with tongue watering in pros-
pect of much good beer to find that his
pal had got on a bender that had wiped
out the whole of the reward. The police
court proceedings following the removal
to hospital of what remained of the
traitor brought out the reason for the
savage assault, and the Katoomba Coun-
cil suddenly revised its policy.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A meeting of the Aus-
tralian Aborigines’ League on the Yarra
Bank was projected for a recent Sunday,
Speakers were to expose the deplorable
conditions of the aborigines at Antwerp
(Vic.). A member of the committee was
stated to have visited the station, and
would describe the shocking living con-
ditions. The Aborigines Board countered
by announcing that there was no abo.
settlement at Antwerp, but that there were
three Binghis in the district who were
being supplied with regulation rations,
and who were free at any time to go to
the very fine station at Lake Tyers, where
there are a school, a football and cricket
club, radio and pictures. It was also
stated that there were many light-colored
people (much lighter than half-castes)
who were not supplied with rations be-
cause they were entitled to full citizen
rights as Australians. Cain, leader of
State Labor, and Senator Dick Keane
promptly repudiated statements that they
were billed to speak at the meeting.
* * * *
“D.E.”: Recent mention of the fact
that Tully (N.Q.) has named some of its
streets after Tully Diggers prompts ms
to report with pride that a Sydney suburb
has a thoroughfare designed to immor-
talise the leader of the A.I.F. in France.
I came upon it during a purgatorial jour-
ney in what must be Sydney’s oldest,
slowest, noisiest and jerkiest tram. Stop-
ping suddenly, the caravan bumped me
out of my wooden seat (I was on my way
to Ryde, and all the “noiseless” trams
with cushion seats are reserved for silver-
tail suburbs). Picking myself up, I caught
sight of a signpost which bore this in-
scription, painted in black on yellow:
Monash Street.
To the Cemetery.
* * * *
S.T.S.”: Mt. Barker (S.A.), which has
been celebrating its centennial, had a
romantic origin. Sturt’s voyage down the
Murray to the sea was in 1830. Soon
after, and before the settlement of Adel-
aide was more than dreamed of, Collett
Barker landed from a warship on the
coast above Kangaroo Island, and ex-
plored across-country to find the rivei.
Passing near where the town now is (ju
over 20 mountainous miles from the city,
he pushed on to the Murray—and was
never seen again ; so the Mount itself
bold and prominent as seen from t
river—was given his name. The no '
thriving town at its foot was settled witnui
two years from the founding of Adelai
THE NEW VERSE.
The new verse, the new verse,
It isn’t like the old;
It fits with brazen trumpets
And not with harps of gold.
It seldom swings or ripples
Along in tuneful time;
It trips the feet of scansion
And breaks the legs of rhyme.
Withal, some mentors tell us,
’Tis with great thoughts replete,
As bins are full of bottles
Or eggs are full of meat.
From love and war and suchlike
Themes of a thousand bards
Its votaries turn to gasworks
Or switch to slaughteryards.
No joys or griefs or problems
Are too abstruse for them,
From Coueism to the
Binomial theorem.
And underneath the surface,
Disorderly and rough,
You’ll find great truths, they tell us—
If you look hard enough.
The new verse, the new verse,
.It mocks all age-old styles;
It isn’t decked and garnished
With meretricious wiles.
They do not care a button,
These modern sons of song,
For fairy flights of poesy
Or “jewels, five words long.”
In harsh, discordant numbers
They find a subtle lure,
Provided that the meaning’s
Sufficiently obscure.
It jars you like the pencil
On slates that squeaks and squeals;
It jolts you like the creaking
Of ungreased wagon wheels.
You plod and struggle through it,
A prey to gloomy doubt
If any but the writer
Could tell what it’s about.
It leaves you hot and bothered,
Or beaten, bored and cold,
The new verse, the new verse
That isn’t like the old!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“T.”: Cameron, the P.M.G., aspires to
end the duplications of place-names that
encumber the gazetteer. Every business-
man will applaud him if he can manage
it, but he will have his work cut out.
There are hundreds —no, thousands —of
tedious and blastiferous repetitions. For
example, there are two Brights, three
Brightons, three Campbelltowns (also one
Campbell Town), two Edens, three Fitz-
roys, three Gladstones, five Richmonds
and 12 Spring Creeks. Such poverty of
imagination has been exhibited by those
who give their neighborhoods labels, and
those who admit them to the book, that
there are even a Hollywood and a Holly-
wood North. The Hollywood is in
Cameron’s own State. It possesses ten
houses, occupied by 15 males and 21
females.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Is S.A. singular in bar-
ring any debt-demands which make a
bluff at being law-court affairs? An
Adelaide draper has been fined for send-
ing out a personal document headed
"Final notice to proceed in the Court
ot Petty Sessions.” Obviously an Eng-
lish importation though that is, it was
held “reasonably capable of conveying the
impression that it was issued with the
sanction of a court of law.” The draper
explained that he wanted only what was
due to him, and that this form had been
sold him as a persuasive method of get-
ting it. But he was fined £2O.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: While in Melbourne Lord
Nuffield paid a visit to a meeting of the
City Council at which one of the coun-
cillors, with a name as a wit, presented
the guest with a shilling, remarking that,
as Lord Nuffield had given away so much
money, it was time to reverse the posi-
tion. The human cornucopia looked
astonished, then put the coin in his
pocket, remarking that he would keep it
as a memento of “a most unusual inci-
dent.”
* * * *
“S.V.”: Most Australian talkie theatres
have facilities for deaf patrons. Another
development from broadcasting is the
talking book, which R. Archer, the inde-
fatigable hon. sec. of the Vic. Blind Insti-
tution, has lately taken up. The principle
is the same as that used in retransmis-
sions. The sounds are inscribed on large
“You guys ain't got no vision!”
disks and played on slow’-motion gramo-
phones. An average-sized book can be
accommodated on a dozen records, each
taking 25 minutes to be translated into
speech. A lending library is to be estab-
lished in Melbourne and the books circu-
lated throughout the State on the system
now in vogue for sighted subscribers to
the Free State Library in Russell-street.
Braille books will still be available to
those who can use them, but they are ex-
hausting to blind people without the
necessary sensitiveness of touch, especi-
ally old people.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A blow to an individual’s
amour propre can be manipulated in all
sorts of ways. A well-to-do young farmer
in a Vic. country district was jilted by a
girl after a two years’ engagement. There-
upon his neighbors’ sheep began to dis-
appear, reappearing at sales, obvious
stolen property. To the amazement of
the district the thefts were sheeted home
to the jilted young man, who had hither-
to borne such a highly respected name
that he was the last person to be sus-
pected. It turned out that after the blow
to his vanity he had taken to wandering
about at night with his dogs and getting
away with the jumbucks. The money
was returned to its rightful owners, but
the unhappy ex-fiance could not be kept
out of the police court.
* * * *
“E.E.”: Money was a scarce commo-
dity with Henry Lawson, no doubt (B.
15/2/’39). What of it? I recently visited
the remote, isolated Victorian settlement
of Wangrabelle (Vic.). . As I took my
place at the tea-table the hostess said
proudly: “We are doing you a great
honor by allowing you to sit on Henry
Lawson’s chair.” “Did he own it?” I
asked. “No, but he sat on it, and we
rarely allow it to be used.” It appears
Lawson visited the locality in 1910, and
every cup, glass, chair or other article
he used or handled is carefully preserved
and treasured more than any gold or
jewels. At one farmhouse I was told
“Henry Lawson leaned on that gate while
he yarned to Dad.” Dad’s long dead,
but the gate, heavily reinforced with
fencing wire, will be preserved for ages.
One very old woman asked me about
Lawson’s statue. “I’d like to see it,” she
said wistfully. “I’ve never been to Syd-
ney, and I’ll never go now, but” —her old
wrinkled face lighted up suddenly —“I
saw Henry Lawson. You see,” she added
hastily, fearing I might not understand,
“he wrote about us.” No, I suppose
Henry never had much money, but he
had something that no other Australian
has had in a like degree, the love of his
countrymen and -women. He still has it.
“Spokeshave”: There is one spot on
the Yarra which probably contains more
real treasure-trove than there is on Cocos
Island. During the recent bushfires the
flames took possession of a large country
house and devoured it within 20 minutes,
leaving, revealed a well-stocked cellar. The
thirsty firefighters knocked the heads
off a few bottles and then deposited a
bag or two of fine old hock and cham-
pagne in the near-by river. A sudden
shift of wind drove the fire down on
the spot and completely changed the
appearance of the landscape, wiping out
the landmarks. Presumably the cache is
still there waiting for an exploring ex-
pedition.
* * * *
“Dona Ferentes”: Migrants in the mass
have always travelled steerage or in one-
class boats, but refugees of the 1939
vintage manage first-class. It is reported
from London that cost of transferring
them averages at least £2OO, and in some
cases expense of keeping them while
awaiting transfer has been over £5O0 —
sterling, not Australian. I travelled with
refugees who seemed to be making up
for the horrors and hardships of life in
Austria and Germany. One stout fellow,
who complained of having lost 80 p.c. of
his capital—the stock complaint —seemed
to have plenty left, and looked after him-
self in good style. Like others of his
kidney, he was more German than the
Germans when it came to talking of the
superiority of German culture. It ap-
peared that the refugees were conferring
a favor on this benighted continent by
giving it the advantage of their intelli-
gence. Natural enough, in view of the
rubbish talked by people who ought to
know better; but will newcomers who
think themselves superior to those among
whom, and on whom, they will live want
to be absorbed or assimilated?
* * * *
“Sally”: A Bulletin reference to
dummies for infants reminds me of the
time I was run into an anti-dummy cam-
paign by a mothercraft enthusiast in M.L.
It was in the very early days of the Truby
King methods, and when we had a huge
mothers’ meeting in the Town Hall
matrons of all ages and types brought along
their families and came to hear what the
new fads in infant-rearing really were.
My enthusiast was whirling towards the
platform when she suddenly stopped and
stared in horror. “Look at that young
woman over there with the two children.
The little girl has a dummy! I must
stop and tell her how frightfully injuri-
ous the wretched things
are.” She did, and after
a fine tirade paused for
breath. The mother of
the dummy - addict
looked at her with a
chilly, eye. “And ’ow
many kids ’ave you?”
she inquired. “One,”
said the lady. “Well,”
was the devastating re-
ply, “I’ve ’ad eleven
meself. All ’ealthy, an’
all ’ad dummies.” But
my enthusiast wasn’t
done yet. “Look!” she
urged agitatedly “Look
at your little girl. She’s
eating cakes with her
dummy still in her
mouth. She’ll choke!”
Mother gave a casual
glance at the cake-eater.
“Don’t worry y’self
about ’er,” she said.
“She’s all right. She
’as all ’er meals that
way.”
* *
“F.S.”: According to
a press report Mel-
bourne’s No. 1 cable
tram, which has
travelled 1,600,000 miles
since it went into com-
mission on N6v. 11,
1885, and still totters
daily along Bourke-
street on its appointed
round, is to spend its
last days as a historic
relic at the Vic.
National Gallery. As it is even more
imperishable than the famous wooden
chariot of the Pharaohs in the British
Museum, that means the unsightly object
will be available for inspection in per-
petuity, unlike Phar Lap, who is showing
signs of breaking up. The request for
the absurd memento has been made to
Tramways-chairman Bell by the Gallery
trustees, who have so little room for
pictures that they have their vaults stuffed
full of them. The trustees have some
quaint ideas.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: J. Talent,, a Mildura
farmer, arrived in Melbourne the other
day with his family per bull-drawn cara-
van, average rate of progress being six
miles a day for the 400-mile journey
from Driedfruitopolis. A £5O wager was
the genesis of a 73-day Odyssey, which is
an everyday affair for the transport
workers of Java. They yearly drag the
enormous sugar crop of that island to the
factories by an even slower method of
conveyance. At the crushing season the
roads are lined for miles with long files
of covered wagons, each with its somno-
lent coolie and water-buffalo. Each beast
puts one foot before the other with mad-
dening deliberation, and every now and
then one or other pauses to ruminate on
the futility of existence, whereupon there
is a stoppage of the procession over half
a province. This idyllic spectacle gives
most foreigners in Java the impression
that the kerbau is a slow-moving quad-
ruped, but at least one Australian learnt
to his sorrow that it isn't. Shooting snipe
in the flooded ricefields, he chanced to
enrage one of the creatures, and it
charged him at such a pace that escape
was impossible. So the Australian lay
down and, when the whites of the
animal’s eyes became visible, drilled a
hole in its forehead (where its brain ought
to be but isn’t) in which you could thrust
a poker, without checking it one iota. The
man was made of tough material, too,
however, and, although neared gored into
two pieces, he recovered.
* * * *
“Pawang”: High-powered salesman-
ship? A friend was taking the air the
other heat-wave evening on a bench in the
Fitzroy Gardens, Melbourne. Presently
a seedy-looking gent, sat down beside him
and began figuring something out in an
enormous notebook. Every now and
then he snorted, started or shook his
head with every sign of being dreadfully
distressed about something. “Something
gone wrong with the bank balance?”
asked my friend presently. “No, no, no!”
muttered the old gent. “Dear, dear,
dear! Terrible, terrible!” “What’s ter-
rible?” inquired my friend. The old
gent, sighed heavily and said, “I am cast-
ing my brother-in-law’s horoscope. Dear,
dear, dear, if he knew what dreadful
things are going to happen to him.” Then,
after a pause: “Would you care for me
to do yours for you?” My friend
promptly thanked him and refused, but
he finds himself going back to the seat in
the Fitzroy Gardens whenever he can get
off for an hour or two.
IN OTHER WORDS.
“Witness in Sydney Small Debts Court: ‘He gar-
nished my wages, y’r Worship.’
“S.M.: ‘He what?’
“Witness: ‘Plastered my screw.’”
These curious phrases used in legal dealing,
These technicalities which textbooks teach,
Are never half as pleasantly revealing
As simple “sabre-cuts” of Saxon speech.
To garnishee establishes possessive
Rights to your earnings —that you doubtless
knew —-
But oh! how infinitely more expressive,
A “plaster” on your “screw”!
Some Judges—’tis a trait to be lamented —
Esteem such language matter for reproof;
The homely metaphor above presented
Would make them “do their block” and “hit
the roof.”
More knowledgeable Beaks find naught unfit-
ting,
Whatever their superiors might do,
About a debtor mournfully admitting
A plaster on his screw.
Here’s to us all, and may we be protected
From all rough spins and raw or rotten deals,
From bricks against our duckhouses projected
And wicked spokes inserted in our wheels!
May the high gods preserve us all, my masters,
From peas or sprigs or pebbles in our shoes,
Flies in our beer and similar disasters,
And may we never wake to hear of plasters
Attaching to our screws!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


m
10 for 9d. 20 for V 6.
El 865
It’s their extra touch of quality -
their consistent freshness which
makes me prefer
CRAVENA"
/
.
mm
MADE
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
More Great Thoughts from the Prime
Minister, who disappeared for a long
rest after stating that “peace hangs by a
slender thread”:
If the national interest demands at any
time that Parliament should be sum-
moned, it will be summoned. The neces-
sity does not arise at the moment.
There are many danger-spots. The rela-
tions between France and Italy must cause
grave concern. Spain is a potential source
of trouble. Again, the situation in the East,
particularly to us in Australia, is a con-
stant source of anxiety.
But Joe remains solid in his determina-
tion to let Parliament go on resting until
after Easter.
Casey has discovered that he won’t
need any more taxes this year, and he
hastened to communicate the glad news
to the newspapers. Presidents and sec-
retaries of taxpayers’ associations wrung
their hands when they read it. They know
what will happen: State Treasurers Will
straightway discover that they need
more taxes.
After “receiving a deputation in
private,” Bailey, the Victorian Minister,
recommended the release of Francis
Delaney and Timothy O’Connell, sen-
tenced to 15 years’ imprisonment on a
bombing charge in 1928 —this without
going into the question of innocence or
guilt. It would be regarded as a ques-
tionable precedent if State Ministers
hadn’t in these matters established stacks
of questionable precedents.
There is to be a by-election for Hurst-
ville (N.S.W.), and people are so sick of
the smug Stevens regime, and of paying
through the nose for necessaries and ser-
vices, that the U.A.P. candidate would
lose for a certainty if it were a Federal
seat. The Labor faction fight gives him
his only chance, such as it is. The Hef-
fron group wasn’t game to contest Bal-
main, but it can’t shirk a scrap in Hurst-
ville.
In the jargon of Stevens and his asso-
ciates, there has been “a further regres-
sion” in the N.S.W. Government ac-
counts. Revenue for seven months,
though down only £633,200 compared
with seven months of 1937-38, was
£4,813,400 short of expenditure, and
Government railway finance is just on
a million worse. The tale told to the tax-
payers until they could swallow it no
longer was that the railways were paying.
“S. M. Herald” report from Melbourne,
where Commonwealth Ministers have
been hanging round: —-
A number of cases in which awards
have been broken by alien Jewish refugees
have come before the Government.
This did not prevent the “Herald” from
suggesting in a leader that Government
had been churlish in restricting “the
maximum number of refugee migrants”
to 15,000 and in refusing to let them
crowd into the former German colony
held under mandate (“there is no case
at all for banning block settlement in
New Guinea”), and that “indifference, if
not intolerance,” will have to be broken
down. For example, by people putting
their hands in their pockets:
There is a duty upon the public to play
its part in welcoming and aiding migrant
refugees.
If the old paper goes on in this way
King’s Cross will be calling it the
“Sheeny Morning Herald.”
Chief Secretary Kidston’s Parliamen-
tary attack on Westralian aboriginal
missions has had a curious sequel—a
conference of missionaries to “discuss”
the charges, which were of the most
sweeping description. All the churches
supporting missions were represented,
and they were astonished, and not a
little angry, when told by another Minis-
ter —Kidston was not present—that the
conference was a substitute for the com-
mission they had demanded. They car-
ried a condemnatory resolution ; and in
the circumstances it was a very clumsy
performance for a Government about to
go to the country.
Last week the drought broke in Vic-
toria, and 150 refugees at Wood’s Point
fought knee-deep in mud to save the
camp which has been pitched on the site
of their ruined homes. The Royal Com-
mission on Bushfires continued taking
evidence in the mud-encompassed mar-
quee. Dunstan will find some of the
“Don’t take any notice of that old optimist! Listen to Billy and me, and we’ll
freeze your blood!”
same material sticking to his Adminis-
tration unless a great deal more energy
is infused into bushfires-relief.
A boycott of defence works is to be
suggested as a “policy” to the alleged
Australasian Council of Trade-unions
which is to spout at Melbourne next
month. The A.W.U. Convention did a
good day’s work for Australia by refus-
ing to have anything to do with the show.
Grayndler, the old union’s veteran sec-
retary, said he had tried to get a list of
A.C.T.U. unions and to find out how its
delegates were elected, but had to give
it up as a bad job.
There is a sort-of-a-kind-of Parliament
in Sydney, supposed to represent the
State of N.S.W. and to have Ministers
responsible to it; but one of the Min-
isters, FitzSimons, confessed the other
day that the Milk Board was exercising
powers with which he could not inter-
fere. And in transport matters policy
and expenditure of public money (on
buildings and trips abroad, as well as
material) are determined by commis-
sions. The latest of many examples:
The Warringah Transport League has
been informed by the Department of
Road Transport and Tramways that 30 of
the 89 buses on order have been “ear-
marked” for services in the Manly-War-
ringah district, and that the trams in that
area will probably be dispensed with
before the end of the year.
The sort-of-a-kind-of Parliament sanc-
tioned and voted the money for those
trams and lines which are to be “dis-
pensed with” without reference to it.
After an immense amount of effort the
Victorian Housing Commission succeeded
in establishing a handful of people in the
model village at Fishermen’s Bend as a
sort of oasis in the surrounding slum
ocean of Port Melbourne. Now, as a
first instalment of its new programme, 55
more acres have been sequestrated to
accommodate 300 to 400 houses, and
architects all over the country are invited
to compete for prizes for the best design
and layout. The problem is how to erect
houses at a cost which will admit of
their being let at rents as cheap as the
slum houses prospective tenants are to
be saved from. The commission hasn’t
solved it with its previous adventure.
Stevens’s pals on the press again
announced the other day that he would
be charmed to go into the Cabinet at
Canberra if a safe seat were placed at
his disposal. Parramatta was mentioned.
Stewart hastily announced that he wasn’t
sacrificing it. After Butler’s experience
in S.A. it is questionable whether any
provincial Premier, Forgan Smith ex-
cepted, could become a Federal member.
How easily useful little reforms can
be effected when a man with some deter-
mination presses for them was shown
when Archie Cameron put it to his
Cabinet that there should be flat rates
for 16-word telegrams - 9d. up to 15
miles and Is. beyond—with abolition of
double rates on Sundays. An Adelaide
“Advertiser” man, evidently in Cameron’s
confidence, writes:
The Government had never before shown
the slightest interest in this proposal, yet
it was agreed to in a few minutes, almost
without discussion
So a silly bit of provincialism which has
given people to whom every fourpence
matters a grievance against the Common-
wealth for many years is to disappear
at last.
Mr. Hugh Denison, of Associated
Newspapers, speaking—he was in Lon-
don in September:
I cannot understand either politicians or
reputable newspapers condemning Mr.
Chamberlain in the way that certain of
them have done in Australia. They talk
and write anti-Chamberlain propaganda
with not even the most rudimentary know-
ledge of the facts The German army
would have walked through Czechoslo-
vakia in 24 hours. Britain and France at
. the moment were neither of them strong
enough to prevent it. And what obliga-
tion did the Empire have to Czechoslovakia
that it should have plunged into a dis-
astrous war over Czechoslovakian inter-
ests?
No more than the U.S.A. had, of course.
But virulent anti-Chamberlain stuff came
from a supposed mouthpiece of Asso-
ciated Newspapers.
More plums for N.S.W. Assemblymen,
who presented themselves with another
£205 p.a. apiece from July 1, by virtue
of a bill passed in 16 minutes at the end
of October.
The Parliamentary Public Works Com-
mittee is to be “reconstituted.” It will
consist of seven members, who will be
paid fees and travelling expenses.
Over and above their free passes, of
course. Previous Public Works Commit-
tees reported in favor of all the white
elephants which feed on a large propor-
tion of the taxes. All the same, it is ex-
pected that the “reconstitution” will be
effected in 15 minutes.
The Marty battalion of the Red Inter-
national Brigade having made fast time
out of Spain, the Chinese Eighth Route
Army (“the former Red Army”) has been
elected unopposed as “the greatest fight-
ing force the world has ever seen.” A
lady, Agnes Smedley, “an American
writer who has spent 10 years cham-
pioning the rights of workers, farmers
and Communists,” vouches for the fact
that the Eighth Route is “the swiftest
army in the world,” also “the most self-
restrained, self-disciplined army in the
world.” On boiled millet or rice with
one veg., No. 8 Route marched “ about
seventy miles a day.” Diggers may be
incredulous, but the lady was present
when they did it, accompanying them, it
is gathered, “on foot.”
The Mystery of the Wynyard Ramp
deepens. The Wynyard Ramp is N.S.W.
Government property, and on it for
years a one-storey pub, which looks as
if bombs had descended on the other
storeys and left only a shell, assorted
smells—chiefly beer and onions—and a
thoroughfare known as Alcohol Alley,
has reared its ugly head. The Railway
Department says £60,000 was spent on
the dingy tavern in a twelvemonth, but
perhaps those bombs blew it away.
Saturday’s papers reported that the
licensee had been fined £2O for having
let “ferment flies, matches, dirt, sawdust,
pieces of dirty newspaper and black
stinking matter” accumulate on the
premises, and that the lessee, who has
been potted repeatedly for breaches
of awards—he sells food on Government
property in competition with the de-
partment’s own joint was in trouble
again. But the most mysterious feature
of the Mystery of the Wynyard Ramp
is that the alleged Parliament in Mac-
quarie-street never grows inquisitive
about it.


THREE’S A CROWD.


BRINGMHILDREN
TO MELBOURNE
You enjoy a family holiday at the
Victoria in a family atmosphere.
The surroundings are dignified,
cuisine excellent, and special ar-
rangements have been made tor the
accommodation of children. “Room
only" tariff: 4/- to 7/6 singles; 8/- to
16/- doubles. Illus. booklet from
Dept. IN.
VICTORIA
PALACE
21S LIT. COLLINS ST.
(Next Town Hill) MELBOURNE
iHMU
i\\
..!!!!
»•*•!!
nil®
ill
mu
Australia's Leading Financial Journal.
DRIFT IN AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC FINANCE
WILL LIFT IN GOLD PRICE AFFECT
COMMODITIES?
TRADE CREDITS (A’SIA) AND HAMILTONS
WHAT TO BUY AND SELL
February Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL . .
Follow the hundreds who have
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
•!A ; •• \ V. ; ; :.•
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of r the Trust:
BOX 4028 V*V» Gf.Qn. SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 85294
PERJONAL ITEMS
Slim, dark, soft-spoken Sir Eric
Mieville, whom the King has lent to be
head of the Duke of Kent’s household in
Australia, earned the liking of news-
papermen as the King’s assistant secre-
tary at Buckingham Palace. When he
took the job he threw overboard pre-
cedents and formalities. “Ring me at
any time and I shall do my best to
answer any questions,” he said to news-
papermen. “Then if you want to see
me we can arrange it. I cannot promise
to be always available at a moment’s
notice but I’ll do what I can.” He is
an adept at answering by indirection and
also at giving replies that settle the ques-
tion but are not likely to be printed.
When the flapper press was still worrying
about the “exile” of the Windsors and
demanding that they should be brought
back to a sorrowing country Sir Eric
was asked if Windsor could return if
he wished. “Oh, I suppose so, if his
passport is in order,” he replied.
C. T. Madigan, who was one of the
most prominent of the younger men at
the Science Congress, took in also the
National Fitness and the Rhodes Fellow-
ship conferences. Back in Adelaide, he
is planning an attack on the Centralian
“Simpson Desert.” His little party will
leave the railway at Abminga and work
eastward during June and July to Birds-
ville (Q.). “A purely scientific study,” he
says; “no immediate economic signifi-
cance —though possibly long-range value.”
When Madigan is not doing this kind
of thing he is the principal understudy in
geology at Adelaide University to Doug-
las Mawson, with whom he went to the
Antarctic long ago.
James Fairlie Brett, pictured here by
Dubois, is manager-director of Brett and
Co., Brisbane timber merchants, chair-
J. F. BRETT.
man of directors of Brett’s Wharves and
Stevedoring Co., and a past president
of the Queensland Timber Merchants’
Association. Born at Maryborough (Q.),
he started in the timber trade there be-
fore transferring to Brisbane. His com-
pany is among the leading suppliers of
high-class veneers. At present on the
way to the U.S.A. on business and
pleasure bent, he’s a bachelor, plays
bowls, and is in his early fifties. He
played a prominent part in developing
the southern reaches of the Brisbane
River.
Dr. J. E. Webb, M.L.A. for Hurstville,
who died last week at
51, was Sydney-born,
and collected his medi-
cal degrees at Sydney
Uni. He served a long
apprenticeship in public
affairs as alderman and
Mayor of Hurstville
and as a member of the
St. George County
Council before offering
himself as a Parliamen-
tary candidate in the
U.A.P. interest. He un-
successfully contested
the Oatley seat (against
Mark Gosling) in 1927
and the Hurstville seat
in 1930 before being
elected for Hurstville in
1932. He increased his
majority at the two suc-
ceeding elections. He
was Government repre-
sentative on the Build-
ing Society Trust, and
proved a very useful
member.
“S.T.S.”: Charles
Hawker, the M.H.R.
from S.A. killed in the
Kyeema disaster,
clearly tried to force
the hand of his State
Government by two bequests in his
will. Strongly of opinion that the State
should copy the Commonwealth in charg-
ing no duty on bequests given for public
purposes, he has left £5OOO to Adelaide
Uni. to start a State orchestra and an-
other £5OOO to St. Mark’s College ; but
with the firm condition that the payments
should be made only if duty-free—which,
as the law now stands, is impossible.
The Law Society of S.A. has chosen
for its new secretary J. H. Portus, son of
the history prof., who was also an inter-
national Rugby player in his day. The
; junior was educated in N.S.W., won the
Pitt-Cobden prize at Sydney Uni., and
is lately back from Oxford and a Bar
training at Gray’s Inn.
Just completed 50 years’ active prac-
tice at the M.L. Bar, Alf Hanlon, K.C.,
of Dunedin, who, carrying his threescore
years and ten lightly, is still a prominent
figure in the major courts of the country.
Hanlon has appeared before the Supreme
Court as senior counsel in 17 murder
trials, securing acquittal in six cases and
a reduction of the charge to manslaughter
in ten. His one client found guilty
of murder was Minnie Deans, the
baby-farmer, the first and last
woman hanged in Maoriland.
George R. Steer, who has retired from
the management of Brisbane’s tramways,
is an Englishman who climbed high in
the Queensland railway service, which he
joined in the ’eighties. In 1922, when
the Brisbane Tramway Trust took over
the system from private enterprise, he
was appointed chairman of the Trust,
and when the tramways came under the
control of the City Council he stayed on
as manager. He organised the travelling
arrangements in connection with the visit
to Queensland in 1920 of the Prince of
Wales, now Duke of Windsor, and was
given an M.V.O. for his services.
Bob Dower, appointed chief of the Vic.
detective force in succession to Superin-
tendent Deeley, is known to policemen
who have trained under him as a very
thorough instructor and a great sticker
for discipline, but many know him better
as a very pleasant conversationalist with
a command of many subjects. Among
other things, he’s well versed in astron-
omy. Louis Esson got from Dower the
material for his story The Sacred Place.
A son of the new C. 1.8. chief has had
several short stories published in Mel-
bourne dailies.
Geoffrey K. Townshend, best known
to the Australian public as a clever black-
G. K. TOWNSHEND.
(Modelled by Frith.)
and-white artist, and to N. S. Wales art-
lovers as a remarkably talented water-
colorist, is a Maorilander who came to
Sydney in 1910 to pursue serious art
studies at the Society of Artists’ studio.
He had had training at the Elam Art
School, Auckland (M.L.), and much stein
discipline in his bread-and-butter job
as a heraldic engraver. The Bulletin
started using his drawings in 1911. Dur-
ing his three and a half years’ war service
in France Townshend contributed some
fine sketches from the front, and some of
his work in this respect is enshrined in
the Mitchell Library. Some of his water-
colors hang in the N.S.W. National Gal-
lery. Nowadays he’s a part-time instruc-
tor at East Sydney Tech. College art
school, and spends a lot of time in rural
parts getting subjects for his water-color
pictures. Plays golf— not very well, he
modestly admits—and is in his middle
forties. His father, now in his eighties, is
heir presumptive to the Marquess of
Townshend, but as that young gentleman
is 22 and very healthy, and there’s an
elder brother of the artist next in line,
G. K. Townshend’s chances of succession
are pretty remote.
The death at Ardlethan (N.S.W.) of
Father T. Mullins will be regretted by
Diggers who served in the Gallipoli and
Palestine campaigns. “Father Tom” was
chaplain with the sth Light Horse on the
Peninsula and later with the 12th L.H. at
Palestine. For conspicuous gallantry he
was twice mentioned in dispatches and
awarded the Military Cross. He returned
to his parish in 1920 bearing the rank
of lt.-colonel chaplain. Malaria, con-
tracted in the Jordan Valley, hastened
his end, which came at the sixty-second
milestone.
March 5 will see all four sons of
Archdeacon Begbie, of Parramatta, in
their father’s church. S. C. Begbie, head-
master of St. Andrew’s Cathedral School
will be ordained that day, and his three
brothers are already in orders. Of their
five sisters three are wives of mission-
aries, and another was for some years a
missionary nurse in Kenya. Archdeacon
Begbie spent eight years in the Bank of
N.S.W. before he buttoned his collar
at the back.
“C.Q.”: Somebody ought to make an
inventory of the citizens of Creswick
Vic., who subsequently have distinguished
themselves. Dr. James Morison Gar-
diner, just dead at Ballarat, was one.
A son of William Gardiner, the store-
keeper of the place, he took his
medical degrees at Melbourne Uni-
versity in 1896, and in 1900 gained the
Cambridge Diploma of Public Health.
Although permanently injured by his
pioneer work in X-rays and radium, he
did 40 years in hospital and private prac-
tice, ending up as resident surgeon at
Ballarat. His father was one of the
original subscribers of Ball and Welch,
and his son followed in his steps as
chairman of directors in ’32.
Queensland’s Forgan Smiths have not
been at all well lately, with two of the
Cabinet disabled by illness and two more
away on long leave for recovery. Now
that the Agricultural Bulcock is off on a
world tour, two Assistant Ministers have
had to be added to the family: Larcombe
(Rockhampton) and Gledson (Ipswich),
both of whom bring previous Cabinet
experience.
Back in Adelaide as medical superin-
tendent of the Children’s Hospital is Dr.
R. A. Pellew, of the famous local cricket
family. While in London he became
Registrar of the Westminster Hospital
(children’s section), and also played in
the Australia House XI. Earlier he was
an inter-State baseballer; he is now 27.
A trip to Great Britain and the U.S.A.
at the expense of the Carnegie Corpora-
tion comes to Reginald Joseph Coombe,
the magistrate who presides over Adel-
aide’s Children’s Court and Traffic Court.
While abroad he will study methods of
dealing with youngsters who offend
R. J. COOMBE, S.M.
against the law. He was bom at Gawler
(S.A.) 39 years ago, and took up the
study of the law after some experience
as a teacher. Admitted to the Bar in
1923, he had 11 years in private practice
before he became a magistrate.' He’s
treasurer of the S.A. Board of Social
Service, organist and choirmaster of the
North Adelaide Congregational Church,
and plays cricket under the Y.M.C.A.
banner.


MANY STUDENTS EARN £6, £7, £7W-
A WEEK After Few Months’ TRAINING
m
Wffi
m
l
li
7«
I
IHpRM
■MI
!'--'-v--*>-.;
m
Mr
Wm
m
m
■
mm
mm
•dmaM
MS
TRAIN AT HOME
For An Interesting Position In
DIESEL ENGINEERING
Many Diesel Engineering College students have
completed their courses in as short a period as four
months—qualifying for £6, £7, £7/10/- a week
jobs.
To-day is the Diesel Age! Mines, ships, buses,
trains, aeroplanes—more and more power-users
in every industry are changing to Diesel, the
modern, highly efficient, more economical power.
As a result, new, well-paid jobs are opening up
every day to Diesel-trained men. Still more men
will be wanted in the future in Diesel operation,
service, maintenance and sales, and positions in
other power fields will become scarcer. Post the
coupon below NOW for free booklet explaining
this new motive power, and get the facts about
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE home
study course . . . See how YOU can fit your-
self for a position in this new industry of to-day
and to-morrow by qualifying for the D.E.C.
Diploma.
NO EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
No Previous Engineering Knowledge Needed
Because of the professional standing of the
College, the practical method of training
and its proved record with 1400 students
throughout Australasia, the D.E.C. course
offers the surest way to success in the
Diesel field.
The lessons in the course are briefly and simply written
by highly-qualified and specially-trained engineers. They
are illustrated with clear, easily-understood diagrams, etc.,
which everyone can follow. You can read them as easily
as your newspaper. Each lesson is checked by competent
examiners, who take a personal interest in every student,
and to whom students may write about any problem
connected with the Course.
Join the band of 1600 Successful D.E.C. Students
Remember the motor industry, radio, talkies! Those who
got in early got the best jobs. YOU can get in early in the
Diesel field if you act now. The simple act of sending for
this free Diesel booklet may be the turning point in your life.
The D.E.C. Primary Course deals with the whole subject from
the ground up. It covers the two main sections of Diesel
engineering—TRACTION DIESEL (tractors, motor buses,
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING
COLLEGE IS AUSTRALIA'S
LARGEST DIESEL SCHOOL
The Only College
Teaching Diesel Only.
Therefore Concentrating on Diesel Students.
lorries, etc.) and STATIONARY DIESEL (mining and other power
plants). The fees are low, and may be paid by easy instalments or
in cash, whichever you wish.
Get This
FREE BOOKLET...
This interesting booklet by Mr. W. Kingsford Smith,
Principal of the College, provides you with full particulars
about this simple and efficient Training Course. Sending
for it means no obligation to anyone, but you owe it to
yourself to have the facts. Tear off and post the
coupon NOW.
DIS3EL
e *gimes
***■■»*
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
' 8.22/2/’39.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE.
BRISBANE.
PERTH.
NEWCASTLE.


ABORICNALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: The Pinnaroo train was
just pulling out of Linga (Vic.) when Big
Mat raced up to a compartment, hurled
his swag in and himself after it. Blow-
ing and panting, he picked himself up
and found a seat, continuing to puff like
a fat mare hauling a heavy load. The
commercial traveller remarked, “You
ought to get into training, lad. A short
run wouldn’t have made me blow like
that when I was your age.” “Never
mind—about —you,” panted Mat. “I —
missed this puff—train—back— at—
puff—Underbool.”
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: What sort of a subur-
ban zoo was “Calypso” in when
he dreamed his dream of running
down rabbits on a bike (B. 8/2/’39)?
If he is so good at turning a grid
that he can keep on a bunny’s tail, he
should be on the Tivoli circuit as a trick
cyclist. He misunderstood those squeals,
by the way, as the unfortunate rabbit was
simply hysterical with laughter. Punters
of all kinds will be interested in
“Calypso’s” theory that the front legs are
the pace-making ones of the average
quadruped, most of the benighted asses
being convinced that you look for the
power that gives
speed in the hind-
quarters. It’s a pity
“Cal.” doesn’t go
outback some time
with his grid ; hilari-
ous spectacles are
appreciated there.
H*
“8.R.H.”: The
capital cities and big
towns of Australasia
no longer claim a
monopoly of “the
greatest shows on
earth.” Modern
motor transport per-
mits some of the so-
called secondary cir-
cuses to set up their
“big tops” in towns
which would prove
unprofitable to the
larger enterprises
with their costly
chartered-train trans-
port. Of this type is
Sole Brothers’ Circus,
now invading New
England (N.S.W.).
Classed among the
small circuses, it yet
can boast three ele-
phants, five lions,
three lionesses, a
tiger, a leopard, 30
monkeys, eight grey
resin - backs (ring
horses), and the
usual ponies and
dogs. No perform-
ing animals journey
on foot, nor does the circus move one
inch on Sunday, which is traditionally
a day of complete rest in the circus
business.
“C.V.S.”: Press reports of bushfires
raging through thousands of acres of
forest are rather misleading to the average
city-dweller, bringing to mind black, deso-
late wastes wherein nothing remains
standing. Actually our hardy eucalypts
will withstand all but the fiercest blaze,
and a blackened forest often quickly
acquires a coat of brightest green. On
the other hand myrtles are very suscep-
tible to fire, and a beautiful green gully
may be utterly destroyed by a single
blaze. Fortunately myrtle forests are
usually too green and damp for fires.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Some Aboite re-
cently commented on a fox’s remarkable
powers of recovery from severe burns.
Ten years ago a rescue party, after a
bushfire in W.A., picked up two charred
corpses and brought them into the
nearest township. The men were known,
but it was impossible to identify either,
and they would have shared a common
grave had not a groan .startled the party
into the realisation that the spark of
life still flickered dimly in one of those
blocks of charcoal. Three years later
he emerged from hospital minus all
fingers and toes and both ears, with new
flesh grafted on face and body, but
still a man. To-day he holds down a
responsible Government job.
* * * #
“Scrubber”: “Top Rail” (B. 25/1/’39)
will change his mind about the old Ger-
man wagon being a vanishing vehicle if
he should visit the Barossa (S.A.) district
during the coming months when the vin-
tage is on, or visit the Murray Flats from
Robertstown to Palmer during the har-
vest. Those used for the vintage are as
well kept by the rising generation as they
were by their forebears. Although in
S.A., as in Queensland, August and Carl,
Jun., ride in streamlined utilities, they
lack none of the qualities which enabled
their ancestors to assist so ably in the
building of the States. Incidentally, proof
of the fusion of the German element into
the nation is amply shown in the birth
and marriage records, especially in the
names of the newcomers. Fritz and Hans
are replaced by Clarence and Desmond,
Ottilie and Paulina by Gladys and Alison.
The womenfolk ably hold their own with
the men, and it is a source of wonder
to see some apparently fragile damsel
handling a spirited team of draughts in
the plough, or, as I saw this week, skin-
ning a large cow single-handed, whilst
to-morrow she will be doing some special
stitch in fancywork just as efficiently as
her city sister.
, * * * *
“8.5. W.”: Bundaberg’s rum must
have made “Records” (B. 1/2/’39)
mistake the place-getters in the bag-
sewing event. His Bingera bagsnatcher
is but a junior compared with the real
Mackay of the northern sugar-mills.
The Pleystowe man can and does sew
1100 bags in an eight-hour shift, and he
is only an apprentice alongside the
Marian expert who daisy-stitches 1200 in
the same time and easily bags first place.
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: My neighbor had a
few lambs that he fancied were fit for
the freezing works, and Henare, who said
he had once been a picker, offered to
come and go through them. Before com-
mencing he sat on a rail and removed
one boot and sock. “My hands get too
hard on te woodheap,” he beamed, “so
I feel ’em with my tender foot for fine
picking, I t’ink.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Bungil’s” attempt
(B. 1/2/’39) to lighten my darkness
anent gumleaf music is amusing. Mind,
I’m not saying his method won’t pro-
duce sound, and for the beginner I’d
almost recommend it. The real art enters
when the exponent knows just how to
fashion his instrument to suit his par-
ticular piece. I’ve seen fingers, rough-
ened and hardened by pick, shovel and
weather, trim the “flesh” off a leaf, leav-
ing a crescent-shaped piece to give it
pitch, or “barring” it with alternate strips
of “flesh” and “film” to get some elusive
effect. I’ve heard tunes emanating from
almost closed mouths, the leaf being
held on the tip of the tongue. And —
but this is a tolerant age ; humor me,
“Hey, Martha, never mind the Water! Co an' grab them two bottles I
left in the ice-chest"
good “Bungil.” I am an old man, placing
entirely disproportionate values on the
small things of life. Teach me, your
grandfather, to suck eggs ; instruct me
if you must, in the forgotten art of
swizzling ; but, if you value our friend-
ship, don’t inform me on the subject
of gumleaf music.
* * * *
“B.O.” (Noumea): A dense pall of
smoke from the recent bushfires in Aus-
tralia was seen over a wide area of the
Pacific. In New Caledonia, 850 miles
from the Australian coast and 1200 miles
from Sydney, the sun appeared for nearly
a week a glowing copper ball in a putty
sky. At night you couldn’t see the stars;
in the early morning hours the moon was
blood-red, the sky black. It was an awe-
some sight even for whites, who guessed
the cause of it and awaited confirmation
anxiously. But the natives were filled
with foreboding, and were quite sure that
we were all doomed to be overwhelmed
by the very daddy of a hurricane.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: We were camped in the
Mathoura (N.S.W.) swamps, sleeper-cut-
ting. The place then could have done
with a St. Patrick, snakes being plentiful.
Kelly, up from Melbourne, kept up a
continual complaint about them. One
night he was more restless than ever,
starting at every sound from beyond the
radius of the campfire light. “What’s the
matter with you, Bill?” demanded Nie-
mur Ned. “I don’t like these blanky
snakes about ’ere,” confessed Kelly.
“Some o’ you blokes ’d growl if y’ had
beer with y’ porridge every morning,”
snapped Niemur. “Except f’r cobras an’
anacondas there’s every other kind o’
Joe Blake ’ere. What sort o’ flamin’
snakes do y’ like?” he roared. Kelly
never mentioned the subject again.
* * * *
“Caledonicus”: “Cooramin” (B.
18/1 /’39), speaking of the knotwood-tree
of N.Q. as a curiosity, overlooks a well-
known cultigen which has the same habit
—the coco-tree of commerce. Many
species of knotwood grow throughout the
islands of the Western Pacific, and natives
of many islands prepare their fruits for
eating by placing a double handful of
them fresh from the tree on top of a flat
rock with a slightly concave top, adding
a double handful of beach sand and half
a pint of sea water and vigorously rubbing
them backwards and forwards under their
flattened hands. The sand removes the
rough outer skin, and the salt water
apparently neutralises the slightly astrin-
gent white sap of the fruit and skin. They
then eat them raw or cooked in yam
puddings.
* * * *
“Turoar”: “This blinkin’ dorg,” Old
Bob said, “wot sits on the tucker-box
nine mile frum Gundagai’s got nothink
on a tyke me an’ Tarry Tom useter ’ave
up at Binnaloo. Bluey was a ’eeler, an’
fer a dorg ’e was a real Rhodes collar.
Me an’ Tarry useter run a two-up swahree
be’ind the pub, an’ Bluey w?s very
pop’lar with the boys. The swahree was
good money ter me an’ Tarry, though we
’aster slip in a double-’eader ev’ry now
an’ thin ter even things up. Ev’rythink’s
sergarnio till one day a snake-eyed coot
called Jasper spots the double-’eader. ’E
fits out a roar an’ makes a rush ter grab
it, but knocks it flyin’ inter the grass.
Thin all the blokes join in lookin’ fer it.
They’re goin’ ter boot us to bits when
they gets it. But after a while all they
finds is a dinkum one that Tarry spills
out of his pocket while they’re lookin’.
Jasper erpolergises fer all the trouble, an’
they ’eads back ter the pub ter cool orf.
Thin Bluey gits up frum where ’e’s squat-
tin’ an’ scratches ’imself real pleased.
Yair —bin sittin’ on it all the time.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Well, I reckon I am the
only one of me kind still livin’,” said
old Dan the bullocky. “But surely there
are other old bullock-drivers still alive?
I asked. “Plenty of ’em,” he replied.
“But I reckon I’m the only one who
didn’t drive a bullock-team up George-
street, Sydney, in the early days.”
* * * *
“Flight”: Of all our native fauna HJ
back the emu as being the first to feel
the pinch in a dry time. In fact, the bird
serves as an alarm-clock for the sheep-
man, warning him when his stock might
be getting weak. It isn’t that stocking
has done it. I’ve seen them on virgin, un-
fenced country as badly off as if they
were in paddocks stocked with sheep.
Admittedly, fences play the dickens with
Long-legs. He’s never been able to work
out just how those things are loaded. He U
either perish on one side of them with
water in sight or he’ll fall over and en-
tangle himself in the process, dying’
anything, more miserably. He hasn’t halt
the brains of the ’roo, which long ago
learned how to handle fences.
THE HOLE IN THE WALL.
The gay, gallant ’nineties come back to me
when
Sometimes I am thinking, alone with my pen;
When shadows forgather, when memories pass
Of faces and. places. Again is my glass
Uplifted to beauty, to culture, to all
The great things of life—at “The Hole in
the Wall.”
Its floor was of sawdust. With biscuits and
cheese,
We sat round a table to paint at our ease
A wonderful picture—Australia-to-be,
Our land of the future, resplendent and free;
The new land, the blue land —oh, Youth and
its call,
For dreamers of dreams at “The Hole in the
Wall! ”
The gay, gallant ’nineties danced out and are
gone.
One bard to his Woodlands went riding, and
one
Rolled up his last bluey and passed through
the gates
Where all men are equal and all men are
mates;
And two are still waiting, grey-haired, for the
call;
And Time—it has taken “The Hole in the
Wall.”
The gay, gallant ’nineties! In that pleasant
inn,
Again to be sitting, with Lawson and Quinn,
And Daley, sweet singer of Art and Romance,
To long for is futile and idle perchance;
For little is born yet, aye, little at all,
From dreams that we dreamed at “The Hole
in the Wall.”
N.S.W.
E. J. Brady.


“Wang”: “The most doleful feller I’ve
ever knew,” said Dan, “wus a bloke I
wus mates with fer a coupla months on
the wallaby. He wus a tall, herrin’-gutted
coot, with a head as long as a horse’s
an’ a look of settled misery on his dial.
His sole topic of conversation wus about
what he called the ‘hereafter.’ He give
me the Joe Morgans, alwiz tellin’ me
where my final campin’ place would be.
One night we’re dossin’ under a tree
when a sudden storm blows up. A
branch comes down an’ knocks ole
‘Hereafter’ out. Half an hour later he
come to. ‘What’s happened?’ he
groaned. ‘An’ where am I?’ ‘Yer
dead,’ I sez, enjoyin’ the chance of havin’
a pick at him, ‘an’ in heaven.’ He opens
his eyes an’ stares fer a second or two
at the fire which I’d stoked up. Then
he lets out a wild sorta yelp. ‘Cripes!’
he yells, ‘there’s a mistake. I’m not in
heaven, I’m in hell.’ ‘What makes yer
so certain about it?’ I asks him. ‘Becos
you’re here with me,’ he sez.”
* * * *
“Coll”: Tightwad was growling about
the new hand. “He’ll ’ave ter go,” he
grumbled. “He’s too wasteful. Ter-day
I caught him chewin’ grass four times.”
* * * *
“Jindivick”: A couple of the boys were
up for driving a car while “under the
influence.” The Beak asked the sergeant
how drunk they were. “Well, y’r Wor-
ship,” said the sergeant. “It was like-
this. I was driving home on the Lake
View-road, which is bad at any time, and
bl —er, I beg y’r Worship’s pardon—and
very bad after rain. I heard a car engine
revving nearly all out, and presently
came upon defendant’s car, down to the
diff. in soft mud, the back wheels spin-
s ning like mad, while
both defendants sat
in the front seat. When
I mentioned about their
being bogged, the driver
looks at the back
wheels, turns to his
companion and says,
‘Strike me, Bill, no
wonder yer remarked
how smooth the road
’ad got. We’re still
here. ’Op out and see
if yer can find that
bottle of beer yer
dropped overboard
about twenty miles
back.’ ” “And did he
find it?” asked the
Beak. “Yes, y’r Wor-
ship. He trod on it
when he stepped off the
running-board.”
❖ *
“V.D.”: Has any
Aboliar observed the
way his bath water runs
out? Science says that
the swirl runs clock-
wise south of the
Equator, anti-clockwise
north of it. The like-
liest explanation is that
the direction is influ-
enced by the west-to-
east movement of the
earth. The Equator
being the fastest-moving part of the
earth’s surface, the centrifugal force car-
ries the side of the whirlpool nearest it
in the same direction as the earth’s own
movement.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: Driving Old Joe in on
pension day, we overtook a genuine old-
style swaggie, neatly-rolled “Curse o’
Gawd” slung over left shoulder by a
“Mush, you mongs !”
towel, tucker-bag balancing in front,
billy in hand and fly-corks dancing from
hat-brim. He gruffly refused a lift. “Does
yer good ter see a inderpendent bloke
again, Bill,” said Joe enthusiastically.
“Different from theseyere loafers ’umpin’
a port an’ cadgin’ lifts an’ too flamin’
lazy ter open a gate. Bit o’ real old
Australia, ’fore all thishyere rot about
Matilda come in. Bluey it was in my
day.” And up the old chap piped:
“ ’Umpin’ yer bloo-00-ey it’s a stale ga-a-ame,
As no doubt yer plainly can see-ee,
There’s ’unger an’ thirst all along a dry track
An’ things only looks middlin’ ter me-ee.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A spider, gay in green and
yellow, sturdily-built, but less than
quarter of an inch long, strolled confi-
dently across the garden table as we sat
at tea under the trees. A fly, six times its
bulk, settled: ihe spiderling crouched,
crept nearer, then sprang the last inch,
wrapped its legs round the victim’s head
and neck, and turned it on its back with
as neat a headlock as any wrestling ring
could show. Forcing the head to one
side, it sank its fangs into the fly’s neck,
and held on amidst a flurry of legs and
buzzing wings. The battlers rolled to
the table edge ; the spider hauled its mas-
sive antagonist back again, holding it
until its struggles slackened and ceased.
The small victor shook the paralysed
body; then, assured that it was power-
“Quick, MaWther, we're passin' a volcano !”
less, carried it to the table edge, made
fast a silken thread, and, still grasping
the prey, lowered it to the grass and
began to suck it dry
•jj jjc H 5
“C.C.C.”: “Junee” (B. 25/1 /’39), in
his list of native bird destroyers, misses
the worst agent of the lot: pussie. It
does not seem to be generally realised just
how thoroughly every part of Australia
is infested with cats gone wild, probably
because they are unobtrusive. Where
wallaroos have perished in the rocky hills
in W.Q., hordes of cats thrive. And it’s
convincing to see the ground carpeted
with feathers in an erstwhile good quail
paddock after a tom moves in. It’s still
more impressive to see an invasion of
cats from the far interior ; writer has seen
what amounted to a belt of them a couple
of miles wide out in the Boulia country.
Only a decade ago the N.S.W. central-
western plains in a decent season used
to resound to the racket made by count-
less skylarks, groundlarks, wood-swal-
lows and other first-rate insect-eaters.
Nowadays all one hears is the rustle of
’hoppers and the buzz of flies.
* * * *
“Betul”: “Wandi’s” shingleback lizard
(B. 18 /1 / ’39) might possibly be a total
abstainer, but it is more likely that it
has other ways of absorbing moisture.
London Zoo at one time found it im-
possible to keep certain species of lizards
alive in captivity, as they refused to
drink, although tanks were placed in the
cages. Then one day a keeper noticed
one of these desert-born crawlers rub-
bing its body along a plate-glass window
where condensation had taken place.
Watching carefully, he saw that the skin
turned a dark color as the moisture was
absorbed. Immediately orders were given
that the lizards should be sprayed daily.
That did the trick. Possibly the dew has
the same life-giving effect with shingle-
backs.
“T.D.”: You can go back a long time
to find parallels for meanness during
national disasters. The Bulletin re-
cently disclosed a classic example during
the recent bushfires. Samuel Pepys, re-
ferring in his Diary to “rich city men
who were sparing of encouragement to
the poor people that wrought for the sav-
ing of their houses,” names Alderman
Starling, “a very rich man, without chil-
dren, who after our men had saved his
house did give 2s. 6d. amongst 30 of
them, and did quarrel with some that
would remove rubbish out of the way
of the fire, saying that they came to
steal.”
m >r
“O’Toole”: “Dungaree” Bob was a
station-manager who went about
shabbily clad in faded blue overalls, and
was frequently mistaken at the shearing
sheds for a penner-up or rouseabout by
men who were operating their first stands
at his place. One day he was in the
pens below a learner’s chute looking over
the cuts. After a while, without turning
round, he roared: “Are y’ blanky well
scaldin’ the wool off of these monkeys,
or are y’ pluckin’ it out with yer fingers
an’ thumb?” The learner was a big
youngster with a good flow of blankards
in his vocabulary, and he poured the
whole stream of them over Bob, thinking
he was a penner-up. Bob told th® learner
to report at the office after the knock-off
whistle blew, and he’d settle up with him.
When the learner went to get his cheque,
however, he was met by a hefty punch
on the jaw. A first-class scrap ensued,
and when after about ten minutes both
agreed to call it off, with honors even,
the young chap asked for his cheque.
“No,” said Bob. “I told y’ I’d settle up
with y’, and I have. You go on and learn
to shear as well as y’ fight and there’ll
always be a pen here for yer.”
* * * *
“Matsu”: Before Uncle came to the
city for the show and races Mickey ad-
vised him, “Now, you be careful of the
spielers and confidence blokes.” “Oh,
don’t you worry, they won’t get me,”
was his confident reply. In the train
Uncle thought out the scheme to carry
his money in his boots; but after a few
days he was crippled. “It wasn’t the
notes —they were as soft as socks,” he
told us when he returned hobbling with
a stick, “but trampin’ for miles on two-
bobs and pennies left more corns on me
feet than’s on a prize cob!”
* * * *
“Kulkah”: Binghi never uses the wom-
mera and shield at the same time. The
latter, generally made of light softwood
capable of standing a blow without crack-
ing, is almost invariably relied upon in
hand-to-hand encounters when the nullahs
are used. The wommera when not used
for propelling spears is both a weapon of
defence and offence ; I am not referring
to the stick-shaped wommeras used by
some of the N.T. tribes, but the double-
bladed implement of North Queensland.
Binghi holds this in front of him, blade
outwards, and with the slightest flick of
the wrist deflects the opponents’ spears,
and if he so chooses can break them.
Then, if the need arises, he can use it as
a waddy; one well-delivered blow from
a double-bladed wommera is capable of
cleaving the skull of the hardest-headed
abo.
STRONG SOLACE.
“The old-time settler of the far outback wished
for no better consolation for his many hardships than
a strong pipe and strong tobacco.’’— Octogenarian
pioneer in press interview.
When men were men in the far-off days
And crops of whiskers they’d never Shear-
Being far too busy with trails to blaze
And blocks of primeval bush to clear
At times the prospect was somewhat drear,
But pessimism was soon dismissed,
Not by the cheer of a rum or beer,
But a ripe old pipe and some Irish twist.
Barrages of acrid smoke they’d raise
That could so infect the atmosphere
That, just one sniff of the poisoned haze
And the women and dogs would disappear.
An abo. at them might hurl his spear
And still be safe; but he’d not exist
For long if he dared to interfere
With their ripe old pipes or their Irish twist.
No “fillums,” crooners or radio plays
Tormented the life of the pioneer.
His hardships were such as brought out traits
That made him a man without a peer:
For fires and droughts and floods severe
He’d not give a damn, if he had his fist
On the bowl and his teeth on the stem so
dear
Of an old pipe loaded with Irish twist.
Envoi.
Perhaps, though, Prince, the major praise
Should go to the wives they doubtless kissed;
For nothing on earth the “hum” could erase
From a ripe old pipe filled with Irish twist.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
ADAMS 1 (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day: Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
five: public dining rooms.
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday. 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
( Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET * SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon. K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
{WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. • • 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
113 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1927 t. 287,631 53,573 73,410 160,648 1,061,343
L.C.A. absorbed ; added Life
fund 497,017 1,558,360
Added other reserves .. 19,759 1,578,119
Assets written up, £50,378 .. 1,628,497
1928.. 447,856 95,774 108,538 243,544 1,872,041
Transferred to specific reserves, £40,061.. 1,831,980
1929.. 476,034 109,362 120,439 246,233 2,078,213
Transferred to specific reserves, £24,152.. 2,054,061
1930.. 473,372 111,520 116,692 245,160 2,299,221
Transferred to specific reserves, £12,623. . 2,286,598
1931. . 434,442 182,074 118,298 134,070 2,420,668
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO.. 2,419,668
Inner reserves disclosed, £12,941 . . 2,432,609
1932.. 384,011 216,643 87,392 79,976 2,512,585
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO. . 2,511,585
1933.. 365,478 192,134 99,239 74,105 2,585,690
Taxation refund, £18,307 .. .. 2,603,997
Transferred to specific reserves, £lOOO.. 2,602,997
Taxation reserve included, £21,000 .. 2,623,997
1934.. 359,152 209,992 97,627 51,533 2,675,530
Unexplained addition reserves, £430.. 2,675,960
1935.. 379,960 208,535 91,769 79,656 2,755,616
1936.. 396,245 240,144 99,304 56,797 2,812,413
1937.. 386,732 294,378 104,072* 2,800,695
Surplus sale leasehold. £1631 .. .. 2,802,326
1938. . 389,295 327,166 103,176 2,761,279
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders: 1928,
£17,015; 1929, £8537 ; 1930, £8926; 1933,
£4463 ; 1934, £8926; 1935, £9OOO ; 1936-38,
£4500. f Nine months. | Including loss on King-
street property, £4994.
Bonuses to policy-holders continue at
from 30s. p.c. to 60s. p.c. on whole-life
policies, according to their age, with a
slight variation in amounts payable be-
tween 15 years and 25 years. Last year
the total sum involved was £39,204 (down
£1418), which was drawn from reserves.
Shareholders got li p.c. (£4500, same as
for the previous year), which the chair-
man says was paid out of returns from
Government securities, and is therefore
exempt from State taxation. All things
considered, it was generous treatment.
Some shareholders, however, are asking
for more, but the chairman says that
until the carry-forward (£3720) reaches
£15,000 there is no possible hope of
shareholders receiving more than \\ p.c.
p.a.
The sources of surplus in a life office
are (1) interest, (2) mortality and other
claims, (3) loading and (4) miscellaneous
sources. Speaking generally, an office
with a large number of old policies de-
rives most of its profits from interest
(difference between rate assumed in
valuation and that actually realised), while
in a younger co., although the profit from
interest is not so great, a compensating
advantage is derived from lighter mor-
tality experience. Still, the surplus from
mortality, although comparatively large
at first, diminishes rapidly and is com-
paratively small over the whole duration
of the policy. The surplus from loading
(difference between actual expense rate
and that allowed by the actuary) is usu-
ally small during, say, the first decade,
owing to heavy initial expenses ; after
that it should remain fairly constant.
The A.P.A. scores heaviest from in-
terest ; its mortality experience is “well
within expectancy under the mortality
table used”; the actuary’s valuation
figures aren’t sent out, so the difference
between loading and actual exes, cannot
be ascertained ; among the miscellaneous
items, the management has inherited a
lot of trouble in connection with mort-
gages and short-term endowment assur-
ances. What needs to be remembered is
that, although the co. is in its twenty-
seventh year, it is in some respects worse
off than if it had set up only, say, 11
years ago. It was then that a new board
took control and set to work to prune
the deadwood out of the accounts
and to put the business on an even
keel. But the mortgage and short-
term endowment legacies have stood
in the way of policy-holders and
shareholders receiving the full benefit of
the good work done. The interests of
policy-holders have been placed first be-
cause, as the chairman said a year ago,
“it would be useless to send agents out
unless they had the right goods to sell.
The association’s bonuses, coupled with
benefits under its policies, must be as
good as any of its competitors.”
What shareholders want to know is
when the difficulties already referred to
will cease to stand in their way. The
board’s report provides no specific answer
to this question. But the board now
refuses to “entertain applications for
loans on mortgage under any conditions.”
Also, these loans have been reduced from
£875,316 to £553,057 in the books
over the last eight years, and now
appear to be less troublesome. The
Canberra leasehold has been sold,
and, after 3| years, the co.’s application
to the Court in Maoriland concerning a
mortgage there has been heard, and judg-
ment reserved. Claims are the co.’s worst
trouble at the moment; endowments
matured were £220,369 (up £37,431) last
year as against £129,521 in 1934. The
difficulty here is that before the present
board took control a lot of small short-
term endowment assurance contracts,
now maturing, were written, and adequate
reserves of sound tangible assets had not
been built up against these liabilities in
their early years. The board does not say
exactly when relief in this connection
might be expected, but “the reduction in
total claims paid must....be gradual
until the board’s alteration in the accept-
ance of risks makes itself felt.”
Last year an extra £124,233 of new
business was put on the books in the
Ordinary department:
1932. 1934. 1937. 1938.
Sum assured. £418,829 £516,393 £917,688 £1,041,921
First premiums' 11,951 15,511 27,669 32,199
Renewal pre-
miums . . 231,026 200,982 200,469 199,490
Interest, etc. 113,133 115,533 123.575 121,660
Claims ' . . 202,881 196,661 278,849 327,166
Exes. . . 78,462 79,836 86,905 85,009
Excluding taxation (£6100) and deprecia-
tion (£4241), exes. (£74,668) took 32.2
p.c. of the year’s net premiums as against
30.5 p.c. for the previous term. The rise
in the rate is due to the effect of heavier
claims upon premium income.
After deducting taxes and exes, con-
nected with the administration of prop-
erty, etc., the net effective return from
interest and rents was 4.3 p.c. on the
Assurance fund as against 4.4 p.c. for the
preceding term. Since the co. assumes
that this fund will turn in only 3 p.c. (a
very stringent basis of valuation in the
circumstances) there is a satisfactory
margin there.
Combining the figures of the Accident
department (here there was a surplus of
£4775) and those of the Ordinary branch,
the year’s outgoings and charges together
exceeded incomings (net premiums, plus
interest, etc.) by £41,046, or £29,324 more
than excess outgoings, etc., for the previ-
ous year. In 1936 and 1935 the balance
was £56,797 and £79,656 respectively on
the right side of the ledger.
The effect of heavy maturities again
shows up in a contraction in net tan-
gibles—£37,BB7 last year:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Public securities. . £1,412,297 £1.382,567 £1,314.692
Mortgages . . 603,935 566,192 553,057
Loans on policies,
etc 137,562 142,199 130,129
Book debts, cash,
etc 88,420 83,679 95,094
Equipment . . 10,463 16,076 14.627
Properties . . . . 726,389 807,063 813,761
Shares in other
cos 321,313 355,627 359,324
Tangible assets. £3,300,379 £3,353,403 £3.280,684
Sundry creditors.. 119,812 184,738 149,906
Net tangibles . . £3,180,567 £3,168,665 £3,130,778
Assurance fund*. . 2,758,352 2.746,586 2,703,556
Paid capital . . 360,000 360,000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: £18,441,
1936; £13,928, 1937; £15,000, 1938,
Net tangibles are still £427,222 in
excess of the Assurance fund, plus
reserves for unexpired risks, and balance-
sheet figures are now healthy, or as
healthy as they can be in the circum-
stances.
Pelaco, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends N
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c. 4 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1927.. 15,070 2082 4500 6,600 1888 14,525
1928.. 6,966 2082 4500 Nil 384 .14,909
5 p.c.
1929.. 21,031 2082 4500 8,250 6199 21,108
Loss.
1930.. 11,334 1041 2250 Nil 6,483
Deficit.
1931.. 38,550 Nil Nil Nil 32,067
Profit.
1932.. 10,784 5204 Nil Nil 5580 26,487
1933.. 8,649 2082 2500 Nil 4067 22,420
1934.. 3,609 2082 1500 Nil 87 22,333
1935.. 10,126 2082 4500 Nil 3544 18,789
1936.. 15,201 2082 7250 Nil 5869 12,920
1937.. 16,591 2082 9000 Nil 5509 7,411
1938.. 17,090 2082 9000 Nil 6008 1,403
The dead horse of accumulated pref.
divs. looks like being worked off by next
balance, subject to economic and indus-
trial developments, of course ; and the
chances of the ords. (they have gone
without for the last nine years) getting
into the picture then or a little later are
encouraging. The co., which has had a
run of bad luck, is in the highly-com-
petitive men’s-wear-manufacturing busi-
ness, shirts, collars and pyjamas being
the chief lines. There is £244,736 of
capital to feed in 29,736 A 7 p.c. and
50,000 B 9 p.c. cum. prefs., all of £1
each, and 330,000 10s. ords., of which
£1402 was unrepresented by tangibles,
after payment of last year’s divs. That
leaves out of the reckoning provision
for taxation and contingencies (£4333).
Trouble first began with aggressive
competition during the post-war boom.
This and abolition of piecework spoiled
results in 1928. However, the system
was reinstated, and, with the aid of a
vigorous sales offensive, things began to
look up again. Then, owing to slump,
stocks and book debts had to be worked
down to reduce outside liabilities, while
exchange and the tariff—the co. imports
most of its raw materials —and the hand-
to-mouth policy of retailers aggravated
the difficulties. Hence the losses of ’3O
and ’3l ; price-cutting affected the figures
for the next three terms, since when there
has been uninterrupted progress, thanks
partly to continued improvement in con-
ditions generally and partly to the man-
agement’s long-term trading policy.
Last term the business continued to
expand, and so did costs, which are still
on their upward way. Gross earnings
(£87,720) were £3278 lighter, but exes.
(£70,630, including provision for taxation,
depreciation and other contingencies)
were pulled back £3777, despite the up-
ward trend of costs. The net result was
thus £499 better at £17,090, which was
enough to pay 7 p.c. on the A and 9 p.c.
on the B shares and then show 6.3 p.c. on
ord. capital. Actually the As got 7 p.c.
and the Bs 18 p.c., leaving another 9 p.c.
(£4500) still to come to clean the latter’s
slate. So at next balance there will be
£9OOO coming to the Bs. Op the basis
of last year’s figures, this and the As’
requirements would leave enough to show
3.6 p.c. on ord. capital.
The financial position further im-
proved :
IC'97 1Q96 1Q97 1 QQQ
Capital . . £244,736 £244,736 £244,736 £244,736
Liabilities . . 237,849 133,714 102,524 95,201
Premises . . 116,929 109,767 108.969 107,880
Plant, etc. .. 77,328 52.005 50,020 49,167
Book debts . . 124,692 95.313 89,949' 79,000
Stock.. .. 182,202 104,129 93.305 115,221
Cash, etc. .. 3,250 16,665 12,685 2,707
The growth of £21,916 in stocks was due
partly to the need for carrying bigger
supplies during present unsettled world
conditions and partly to early arrivals of
raw materials from overseas. To meet
the outlay and reduce the amount com-
ing to outsiders by £7323, debtors’ bal-
ances were reduced by £10,943 and cash,
etc., was drawn upon for £9978. In-
cluding stocks, the year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£lOl 733)
was £B3lB.
At 245. 6d. the As return 5.7 p.c. The
Bs at 30s. yield 6 p.c. plus arrears. The
ords. at ss. 3d. would return 5.7 p.c. on
the basis of a 3 p.c. distribution. The
net tangible cover is £8 3s. Bd. As
£4 ss. sd. Bs and 9s. 1 Id. ords.
Westralian Farmers, Ltd.
Bonus Nominal
t i r> jo. r, • To Re— Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£* ££,£,£,
1928.. 34,796 7 p.c. = 13,522 12,000 9,274 66 723
Reserves drawn on, £13,312 .. 53 411
1929.. 10,341 Nil Nil 10,34 i 63’752
Bad debts written off, £15,458 .. 48,294
Loss.
1930.. 4,872 Nil Nil 43 42“>
1931.. 25,995 Nil Nil 11^27
1932.. 67,760* Nil Nil - 50 583
Profit.
1933.. 829 Nil Nil 829 49,504
Loss.
1934.. 567 Nil Nil 50,071
1935.. 126 Nil Nil 50,197
Profit.
1936.. 1,164 Nil Nil 1,164 49,033
1937.. 3,969 Nil Nil 3,969 45,064
1938.. 36,536 Nil Nil 36,536 8,528
includes bad debts written off.
This big semi-co-operative organisation,
whose activities cover all the most im-
portant branches of primary production
in its home State, and include merchan-
dise, insurance, chartering and agency
business as well, has put up a highly
creditable performance. When the bot-
tom fell out of the markets some nine
years ago, the board had gone to its
bankers for nearly £250,000 to make ad-
vances to wheatgrowers against grain. On
Oct. 14, 1937, the last penny of that over-
draft had been repaid. Also, during the
nine years to the close of last accounts,
no less than £414,377 had been written
off out of earnings on account of bad
debts, practically all incurred before 1930.
Now that the deadwood, or most of it,
has been pruned out of the accounts, the
provision already made for contingen-
cies, together with the usual annual allo-
cation, is expected to be sufficient to take
care of all debts regarded as bad or doubt-
ful, notwithstanding the recent heavy fall
in the price of wheat. So an early re-
sumption of moderate dividends to share-
holders and bonuses to clients, who are
mostly shareholders (both have gone with-
out since 1928), is anticipated.
Wheat (as agent for the pool the co.
handles most of the grain in the State)
dominates the co.’s finances. What has
happened in connection with Westralian
harvests the next table illustrates:
Westralia’s Wheat Production.
Average Pool Average
Total per Acre, Price per Return
Bushels. Bushels. Bushel, t per Acre.
1926.. 20,471,000 9.7 ss. Bid. £2/15/4
1930.. 39,081,000 11.0 3s. 7|d. £l/19/8
1931.. 53,504,000 13.5 Is. 10jd. £l/5/9
1932.. 41,521,000 13.1 2s. BJd. £l/15/7
1933.. 41,792,000 12.3 2s. sd. £l/9/9
1934.. 37,305,000 11.7 2s. 2id. £l/5/7
1935. . 26,985,000 9.8 2s. sd. £l/3/8
1936.. 23,315,000 9.2 3s. 2id. £l/9/4
1987.. 21,291,000 8.3 ss. £2/1/7
1938.. 36.091,000 11.9 3s. s|d. £2/0/9
1939*. 35,000,000 10.6
* Estimate. t Excludes bounty.
Last year’s bigger yield (crop failure
affected the ' 1937 figure) helped to take
some of the sting out of the sharp fall
in price ; but the recession has continued,
and the average price for the current
season will be substantially below last
season’s. The co. is doing good work in
encouraging and assisting wheatgrowers
to widen the scope of their farming acti-
vities, especially in the direction of stock-
raising. The co. also enjoyed bigger turn-
over in other departments, including wool,
skins, insurance, machinery, livestock and
farm and dairy produce.
The spring in last year’s net earnings,
as shown in the table, is more apparent
than real. For many years the ordinary
p. and 1. surplus was used to rub out bad
debts; the profit, and the other thing,
shown in the table is mainly the result
of reserve adjustments. Last year com-
missions turned in £92,490 (up £15,780),
and other revenue amounted to £151,659
(down £2133), making total gross earn-
ings £244,149 (up £13,647). Exes.
(£221,281) were £25,663 heavier. Includ-
ing £11,302 dropped into the contingency


A BEAUTY
TO LOOK AT
and ...
A BEAUTY TO IQOK OUT OF
W,: !i
an
. •.
1
These illustrations show you the wide field of vision afforded the driver of the new Buick, in comparison with the view from a pre-1939 car,
Sharpen up your trading eye and let’s see
how good you are at spotting value ! What
do you see in this trim new Buick besides
fresh and stunning beauty that’s blazing a
new style trail ? You note radiators down
low. A broad, sweeping hood. An upper
structure that’s light, airy, open. A solid
four-square set on the road that looks like
this car means business. But consider :
Those low-placed radiators mean better
cooling at cruising speeds ! That wide-
open upper structure means many more
square inches of added visibility. That
solid footing comes from frames lowered
nearly two inches—steadier going, better
traction, surer control, with no loss of
road clearance ! As for the bonnet —it
houses the ablest of the world’s straight-
eights, the quick, quiet, unfaltering Buick
Dynaflash straight-eight. And all four
wheels float on soft coil springs—with
BuiCoil springing on the rear, 15 per cent,
softer than before ! Value ? You find it
everywhere ! In knee-action that banks
curves for you ! In a gearshift out of
knee-way ! In stiffer frames, in improved
clutches, in a complete ‘ ‘fuel-conditioning”
system. In the Buick nameplate, certify-
ing quality and craftsmanship down to
the last nut and bolt !
And then —you reach the price tag.
That’s where you find for certain this 1939
Buick’s the smartest bargain you ever
drove. Gome in . . . see for yourself.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED.
Do you realise that the actual cost of ownership of
a Buick is only about a £1 a month more than
medium-priced cars ? Why not see your Buick
dealer and let him show you how easy it is to own
a Buick under the Convenient, Confidential G.M.A.C.
Payment Plan ?
‘AIR CHIEF’ CAR RADIO—The modern
has an ‘AIR CHIEF’ installed in his car,
maximum enjoyment from motoring,
specially designed for Buick is included in
at prices from Eighteen Guineas. Ask for
stration. You will be pleased with the
radio reception given by ‘AIR CHIEF.’
motorist
to derive
A model
the range
a demon-
excellent
Buick for 1939
Buy from your local Buick dealer
3E
Sold and serviced by Buick Dealers throughout Australia.
reserve (£22,598), the net result was
£34,170 (about the same as for the previ-
ous term before allowing for bad debts),
or 16 p.c. on capital.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it:
1933. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £213,790 £213,862 £213,912 £213,967
Debentures .. 107,730 108,768 109,468 125,124
Other liabilities 693,434 546,117 588,083 488,190
Freeholds, etc. 148,058 123,449 98,036 99,997
Plant, etc. .. 37,190 31,198 41,407 38,501
Shares in other
cos .. 48,705 78,221 82,185 91,549
Stocks . . 119,311 89,035 155,722 106,040
Debtors .. 599,279 477,421 499,324 461,208
Cash, etc. .. 12,907 18,226 23,925 21',458
To lop £99,893 off the floating debt, add
£1961 to freeholds (new premises are
being built in Queen-street, Perth) and
£9364 to shares in other cos. (chiefly co-
op. concerns here and in London), stocks
were reduced by £49,682, debtors’
balances by £38,116, cash by £2467, plant
by £2906 and debenture liabilities were
increased by £15,656. The old 8 p.c.
debentures (£87,800) were replaced with
7 per cents. (£106,000) maturing in 1943,
and the amount of 5 p.c. bonus deben-
tures (now £19,124) was reduced by
£2544. Including stocks but not shares
in other cos., more or less liquids ex-
ceeded the floating debt by £100,516
when the books closed, but they were
£24,608 short of total outside liabilities.
Fresh Food and Ice (Syd.)
Added to Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 17,536 6 p.c. = 16,925 611 68,062
1929.. 10,134 3 „ „ 8,463 1,671 69,733
1930.. 15,459 5i „ „ 15,515 69.677
1931.. 7,910 3 „ 8,463 69,124
1932.. 4,052 21 „ „ 7,098 66,078
1933.. 7,017 21 „ „ 7,098 65,997
1934.. 15.662 5 „ „ 14,195 1,467 67.464
1935.. 16,141 5 ~,, 14,195 1,946 69,410
1936.. 16,400 5 ~,,14,195 2,205 71,615
Royaltv rights disclosed, £4143 .. 67,472
1937.. i 6,550 5* p.c. =15,614 936 68,408
Goodwill, £19,026 49,382
Royaltv rights disappear, £3033 .. 52,415
1938.. 17,049 6 p.c. = 17,034 15 52,430
Although shareholders have had a long,
uninterrupted run of moderate returns,
they have never skimmed much cream
from this 63-year-old milk-distribut-
ing business, which now does a sub-
stantial turnover in ice-cream, bread,
butter, fish, game, poultry and cold-
storage as well. For the decade to the
close of accounts in 1920 divs. averaged
10| p.c. ; for the 18 years since the
average is 5.3 p.c., the highest being 8
p.c. and the lowest 2\ p.c. The business
has kept on expanding, but competition
and mounting costs have kept profit
margins so narrow that the co. has got
little benefit from its growing turnover.
However, a lot of old equipment was
recently replaced with modern milk-
pasteurising and other plant, which ought
to strengthen earning power a little, and
thus help offset the effects of rising costs.
Hopes are that net earnings will also
benefit from last year’s extension of the
business, and from the activities that are
to follow.
A subsidiary, Byrne’s Exhibition Dairy
Pty., was formed to take over H. Byrne’s
60-year-old raw-milk business, together
with the raw-milk businesses of several
other suburban dairymen. The idea is
to move the herds from congested areas
in or near the suburbs to Abbotsford
Farm, the co.’s dairy property at Picton
(about 50 miles from the city), whence
the milk will be delivered daily
by eight-ton Diesel trucks to the co.’s
Sydney depots. The co. will thus be in
a position to deliver both raw and pas-
teurised milk. No hint is given as to the
earning power of the businesses taken
over, or how the move to Picton is ex-
pected to affect this, if at all, nor is price
paid for the various undertakings men-
tioned.
The spring in last year’s gross earn-
ings (£381,898) was £57,642. Exes.
(£364,849) took all but £499 of the in-
crease, leaving the net result at 6 p.c.
on capital as against 5.8, 5.7, 5.6, 5.5,
2.4, 1.4, 2.8 and 5.4 p.c. back to 1930.
Half a point was added to the div., mak-
ing it 6 p.c., leaving only £l5 to visibly
add to the lay-by, which is none too
stout a prop for capital.
Here is the position so far as balance-
sheet figures disclose it:
1029. 1935. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £282,091 £283,907 £283,907 £283,907
Debentures . . 100,000 100,000 100,000 100,000
Other liabilities 65,186 46,392 69,208 151,999
Property .. 228,209 229,212 236,010 243,760
Plant . . 121,743 151.900 166,425 170,387
Rolling’ stock. . 44,488 35,847 38,204 39,542
Stocks .. 43,743 24,654 23,369 25,573
Cash and
investments. 16,362 10,957 397 405
Book debts . . 76,982 60,292 62,485 65,224
Shares subsid. 13,149 13,156
Advances subsid. - 38,806
The goodwill of the businesses bought
cost £19,026, which was capitalised. The
co. also made advances totalling £38,806
to the subsidiary, spent £13,050 more than
was written off on fixed assets, and added
£4951 to liquids. To meet the outlay and
clip £6OOO off the amount coming to
deferred creditors (£6000), the board
added £56,180 to the overdraft (£62,232),
£21,775 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, and £837 to the co.’s debt
to the Milk Board (£23,861). Including
advances to the subsidiary but not shares
therein, the excess of outside liabilities
over more or less liquids increased by
£39,034 during the twelvemonth, reach-
ing £121,991 when the books closed.
The market, which notes the upward
trend of costs, including taxation, and


OPERATING RESULTS OF TIN PRODUCING COMPANIES
UNDER THE MANAGEMENT OF
LONDON TIN CORPORATION, LTD
FOR THE QUARTER ENDED 31 ST DECEMBER, 1938.
Company. j
Rawang Tin Fields, Ltd |
Rawang Concessions, Ltd !■
Kuala Kampar Tin Fields, Ltd ;
Kampong Lanjut Tin Dredging, Ltd.. .
Kramat Tin Dredging, Ltd
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd I
Jelapang Tin Dredging, Ltd |
Southern Kinta Consolidated, Ltd. . . j
Tongkah Harbour Tin Dredging, Ltd.
Kundang Tin Dredging, Ltd
Malim Nawar Tin, Ltd
Berjuntai Tin Dredging, Ltd
* The Estimated Mine Profit is from permitted quota sales before providing depreciation and overhead charges.
t Development and opening-out period.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. AVrite for our
latest General Catalogue.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, hit
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney. — Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. AV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Plior.e : M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“YelgabMelbourne.
doubtful how the Picton venture will
turn out, prices the f.-p. pound shares,
covered by 235. Bd. in net tangibles, at
15s. 7d. as against 18s. a year ago. At
15s. 7d. the return is 7.6 p.c. on a 6
p.c. div. basis.
Tongkah Compound, N.L.
This old Malayan producer, which ori-
ginally kicked off in Siam, has had a
successful career, divs. on a paid capital
of £207,113 having aggregated £547,993.
Less than five years’ digging remains in
the co.’s Mantin area on the basis of
last year’s figures, but this is “likely to
be increased by purchase of adjoining
ground,” while there is a further three
years’ work in tailings in the Setul area,
where the co. gave up a year or two back
following rock intrusion.
The co. is the centre of a group of
subsidiary ventures in which it holds
shares to the face value of £242,039.
Details: —-
Parent’s Holding.*
t A \
Issued £1 Paid , —Proved Reserves
Co. Capital. Shares. To C.y. Av. T.o.
No. 2.. £103,000 | 33 ’28? } 10,000,000 0.411 b.
Nn » ' non s/nno in 1 15,000,000 I.oolb.
No. „.. 150,000 06, 000 16/-j 5,500, 000 0.461 b.
No. 4.. 150,000 47,353 7/- 13,000,000 I.oolb.
No. 5.. 130,000 97,999 5/- 15,000,000 1.021 b.
* At September 30, 1938.
The lot figures in the books at £110,198.
No. 2 is the only co. to have contri-
buted to the pool, restriction having hin-
dered development of the others. No. 3,
however, has lately started producing,
with satisfactory results, while No. 4
expects to get going around the end of
next month, leaving No. 5 the only in-
active member of the family. To enable
No. 4 to purchase the assets and assess-
ment of New Kopah Tin, the parent co.
transferred 40,932 of its shares in the
pup to the vendor as part-purchase con-
sideration, the shares subsequently being
written up to £1 each.
Reduction in permissible output from
76.75 p.c. to 51.12 p.c., together with the
slip in metal prices, is reflected in a fall
last year of £A 15,883 in the parent’s net
result; but divs. were increased from 2s.
to 3s. per share: —-
/--Surplus-^—Dividends—•,
Sept., Revenue. Outgo. Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
1935. . £66,150 £28,222 £37,928 3/- 3/- £37.^SO
t 60,223 25,241 34,982 2/9 3/- 37,280
IUdO.. j Logg sa ] e dredge, £5185.
7 1 79,239 23,062 56,177 4/6 2/- 24,853
‘• • (“Balance received sale cut dredge, £7500.”
1938.. 62,077 21,753 40,294 3/2 3 /- 31.280
The £40,294 of profit shown includes
£12,037 (up £4270) received in divs., etc.,
and £2OOO written back from insurance
reserve, eliminating that account. No-
thing was charged for depreciation.
The reduced yield is attributed to
moulds of overburden left by previous
mines and a patch of shallow rock en-
countered :
1936 1937 1938.
Cubic yards .. 1,777,000 1,651,000 1,559,000
Tin oxide, tons . . 403.4 348.3 282.1
Recovery, lb., per c.y. 0.51 0.47 0.40
Production cost c.y. 3.4 d. 3.26 d. 3.35 d.
Quota release, p.c. - 76.75 51.12
Tin price, ton .. £245/17/9 £lB7/7/3
Since the close of accounts four months’
digging has yielded tons t.o. from
578,000 c.y., recoveries being fraction-
ally higher. Mine profit for the period
was £8325 sterling. Though domestic
export quotas are down to 25.5 p.c., the
co. may be able to maintain somewhere
near full-time working with its 1071-ton
assessment.
There are 248,536 £1 shares issued,
called to 16s. Bd. each. At balance day
more or less liquids, excluding sharehold-
ings, stood £94,441 in excess of liabili-
ties, as against £121,631 a year earlier,
owing to calls by the pups, which have
made further demands since.
Next month B.H.P.’s old silver-lead
mine at the Barrier will close down, the
supply of pay-ore being exhausted. Aus-
tralia owes much to the development
of the big silver-lead deposit at the
Barrier, first discovered by boundary-
rider Charles Rasp in 1883, and to the
old Proprietary mine, as the B.H.P.
property was called, in particular. It was
this mine, once one of the richest of its
kind in the world, that provided the
money with which the big iron and steel
enterprise at Newcastle was first started
in 1913. In its 54 years the mine pro-
duced over 12,280,000 tons of ore, from
which more than 1,445,000 tons lead,
189,457,0000 z. silver and 603,000 tons
zinc were recovered, many engineering
and metallurgical problems being over-
come in the process. Another mine on
the field nearing exhaustion is Central
Block 10, owned by Sulphide Corp. and
adjoining the Proprietary on the north.
Experts estimate that there is still
30,000,000 tons or more of ore to be
taken out before the entire field becomes
exhausted. But the diamond drill has
repeatedly postponed the demise of this
field, which has been many times thun-
dered by the prophets since pre-war days.
* * * *
Metal recoveries at Mt. Isa (Q.) have
stepped up in this way over the last three
years:—■
r-* Recoveries
Year to Silver. Lead. Zinc.
30/6/’36., .. 68.8 p.c. 72.4 p.c. 46.5 p.c.
30/6/’37. . .. 73.9 „ 77.6 „ 47.6 „
30/6/’3B. . .. 79.8 „ 83.5 „ 49.9 „
Principal factors contributing to the
betterment were (1) three-stage grinding
of flotation feed ; (2) better control of
flotation process and improved operating
technique; (3) diminution of oxidation
products as upper horizons of ore-body
depleted; (4) increase in grade of ore
treated, and inclusion of less refractory
ore in mill feed.
* * * ' *
Zircon Rutile, Ltd., formed in Mel-
bourne at the end of 1934 to treat beach
sands near Byron Bay (N.S.W.) by the
flotation process, netted £598 for the 12
months to June 30 last. Paid capital is
£BO,OOO in 10s. shares. When the books
closed there were more or less liquids
totalling £4031 to meet £384 coming to
outsiders.
* * * *
King Island Scheelite, King Island (Bass
Strait), netted £BOO for the year and 23
days to the end of October last. During
this period, actual mining operations
were carried on for only 19 weeks, 5845
tons of scheelite ore being treated for
26.72 tons of scheelite concentrate, assay-
ing 72.1 p.c. WO3. The average price
received was £A3 3s. 2d. per unit of
WO3, £227-odd per ton of concentrates,
gross earnings being £6092. The average
grade of ore treated was 0.8 p.c. WO3,
and the recovery was 0.33 p.c. WO3.
Equipment for finer grinding has been
installed, and a better recovery is now
being made. Plant capacity is 500 tons
ore weekly.
* * * *
Current year for Briseis Tin, sluicing
at Derby (Tas.), should be nearly twice
as profitable as 1938 if recent high yields
keep up. That for January lifted to
2.361 b. per c.y., working profit on re-
duced throughput running to £A6458. It
compares with an average recovery of
1.681 b. and mine profits of £A38,685 for
the financial term ended December. The
management has done much to avoid a
repetition of the disastrous floods of ’29
and ’36.
* * * *
Australian Mines and Secretariat, one
of the De Bernales group, and a Sydney
syndicate are nibbling at the Chateau
Tanunda deposits at Porphyry, on the
North Coolgardie field (W.A.). Dis-
covered by two prospectors, Welch and
Potts, early in 1933, the property was
taken over by the Porphyry G.M. Co.,
and then passed to Edjudina G.M. Co.,
following a favorable report by T. R.
Victor and N. S. Stuckey, about the
middle of 1934. The main workings con-
sisted of an opencut, about 240 ft. by
80ft., and 10 shafts had been sunk, the
deepest being 100 ft. A lot of ore, head
value 4.25dwt., was treated by straking
for a recovery of 2.B9dwt. F. T. M.
White recommended addition of a cyanid-
ing unit and a lift in plant capacity from
3000 tons to 5000 tons a month. There
were no actual blocked-out ore reserves,
but highly probable ore was estimated at
115,000 tons, averaging a little over
4.2dwt. Sampling suggested that values
fell away in the southern portion of the
property. Then the liners in the ball mill
collapsed, hands .had to be paid off, and
there wasn’t enough money left to effect
repairs and carry on for a fortnight, when
a clean-up would have provided money
with which to pay wages. Before the
necessary funds could be obtained, one of
the co.’s creditors issued a writ for £lO6.
Compulsory liquidation followed, and the
mine, with machinery intact, has been
closed down for the last year or so, the
liquidator still awaiting a suitable offer.
* * * *
Beryl Gold Corp. is looking for its
future to its investments, chiefly in other
De Bernales cos. in W.A., including Mur-
chison Gold Development, Great Boul-
der Mining and Finance, Commonwealth
M. and F., Gladiator and Comet
(20,250 shares, bought for £A25,811
since the close of accounts), and Coast
and Lake Alluvials, which is prospecting
placer deposits in British Columbia. The
co.’s own property at Kundip (W.A.)
proved a dud. Only return, if any, for an
outlay here of £5208,229, including pur-
chase consideration (£132,000), is likely
to come from a 140,000-ton stack of old
tailings which the board is having tested.
The co. was floated on reported drill
values up to 2oz. and more in the Gem
area; development disclosed only
stringers and bulges of lode material
over short distances. At balance date
there was £53,315 in cash and £72,691
(book value) in investments to represent
the £349,990 of issued and paid-up
capital and liabilities of £437.
* * * *
Lake View returns keep up. For the
December quarter of 1938, 159,105 tons
of ore and 177,241 tons of tailings
yielded £A370,710 gross. Working and
development costs took £205,537, leaving
a surplus of £165,173. Capital expendi-
ture totalled £38,472, of which £18,958
was for special development and £19,514
for plant, machinery, etc. Nearly two
miles of development was done during
the quarter, driving accounting for
5706 ft., crosscutting 1717 ft. and winzing
2546 ft. Some 4500 ft. of diamond-drill-
ing was also done. In the Associated
mine one bore on the 300 ft. level stabbed
an eastern extension of Tetley’s lode, and
23ft. of continuous core assayed
12.7dwt.; another, extended west at the
1000 ft. level of Tetley’s, passed through
four payable veins varying from 18in. to
4|ft. in width ; the third, at the 1200 ft.
level of the Australia East workings,
penetrated several narrow makes of ore
of mostly low but profitable grade. Some
good, and in one or two instances im-
pressive, exposures were also recorded
in the course of development in the co.’s
other properties.
* * * *
Star Explorations, Ltd., made a loss of
£1319 last year as against a profit of
£10,572 for the preceding 12 months. Sale
of securities below cost was mainly re-
sponsible for the contraction. Investments
still held are valued at £127,243, or 33 1-3
p.c. below cost. Holdings of goldmining
shares amount to 37 p.c. of the book
value of all holdings ; tin shares, 10 p.c.;
copper, lead and zinc shares, 0.88 p.c.;
Financial Trust and land shares, 52 p.c.
The co. first started business in Kal-
goorlie in 1910 as a re-treater of old
Hannans Star tailings, but later became
an overseas financial and exploration con-
cern. Some Westralian gold stocks are
included in its portfolio.
* * * *
New Golconda (W.A.) has decided to
have a gamble on the now fashionable
Norseman field. An option has been
taken on an area there which is reported
to contain a quartz formation showing
traces of gold. Formed in 1934 to re-
open and work an old mine on the Mur-
chison field, the co. carried on unsuccess-
fully until about a year ago, when it
resolved to give up and grant a former
manager a sub-lease of the property.
Cash position is weak. There are 606,755
fully-paid 2s. shares issued and 93,245
unissued.
* * * *
Westralian Mines Department broad-
casts the following information about
four mines in which the public is finan-
cially interested. Triton: Last year the
main shaft was sunk to 1227 ft., and de-
velopment done at all levels. New lode
intersections were made at 950 ft. and
1050 ft. levels, the lode maintaining
normal width and values. A total of
106,923 tons was hoisted during the
period. Wiluna: An internal shaft has
been sunk to 2600 ft. in the main work-
ings. It is proposed to test the lode by
diamond-drilling from the bottom of this
shaft. At the Bulletin block in the
northern section of the property a shaft
has been sunk to 1270 ft. and serviced
to 1200 ft. Extensive exploration has been
carried out in an area between the main
and Bulletin workings by driving and
diamond-drilling. Treatment plant has
been modified to permit of better con-
trol of roasting. Mill crushed (including
ore from the Moonlight Wiluna Gold
Mines) 58,000 tons per month last year.
Moonlight Wiluna: This co. is operated
by Gold Fields Australian Development
Co. In all 101,000 tons of an average
value of s.B4dwt. was treated at the
Wiluna mill in 1938. Development down
the No. 5 level, the deepest so far, is
encouraging. Hill 50: Diamond-drilling
has proved a continuation of the main
gold-carrier and enhanced the mine’s
prospects. Some additions have been
made to the plant.
# * * #
The 1939, or second, issue (1936 was
the previous one) of the Mining Hand-
book of Australia, prepared by the staff
of “Chemical Engineering and Mining
Review,” and put out by the Tait Pub-
lishing Co., Melbourne, is the most com-
plete thing of its kind yet published in
connection with Australian mining cos.
It contains the directorates, official ad-
dresses, places of operation, capital, finan-
cial position, historical particulars, divs.,
etc., of over 600 cos. Tables giving retro-
spective production and metallurgical data,
and numerous maps showing the location
of mines and leases, are also features of
this new edition, fof which Harold S.
Elford, mining engineer and old friend
of The Bulletin, is mainly responsible.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
W.C.M.: Not recommended... .W.A.: See
B. 25/l/’39... .L.H.H.: The information you
desire can be extracted from the weekly pages
of The Bulletin or from the “ ‘Wild Cat'
Monthly”... .J.L.H.: (1) Yes. (2) £lOO.OOO
worth of machinery has been ordered from Ger-
many, and a German expert has arrived in
Sydney to supervise the erection. (3) Cannot
say whether start has yet been made with fac-
tory premises, etc., which are to cost about
£250,000 J.R.P.: (1) Better put your ques-
tion to the national insurance people. (2) Yes.
N.M.L.: (1) Bonuses to policy-holders are
not yet in sight. (2) Yes... .W.1.M.: Cum-
berland Paper worth consideration
F.H.R.W.: N.T. works were shut down because
of labor difficulties. Co. still owns grazing
properties in north and nor’-west of Australia.
....W. and B.: (1) No. (2) and (3) Yes, ask
secretary if he can find a buyer for you. (4)
Legally, no.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
Ml
m
ill
u
%
H
• i * Jilin'
. flpniflpllflWiii
Sf'Miii f|L
11!
■“"ipff
■P
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms on]y from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH
“The sea swarms with countless billions of
living microcosms.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Hence the “mity deep.”
4 4 4 4
‘How to Make a Lovely Peach Cordial.”
— Advt.
An excellent method is to suggest lunch
and a theatre afterwards.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Records for the 440 and 880 are broken
almost every season.” — Sporting writer.
And for the 8.35 almost every morning.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Many song-writers compose without know-
ing a note of music.” — Musical mag.
That’s just what we often suspected.
4* 4* 4 4*
“Every woman has a secret.” — Women’s mag.
Someone else’s, usually.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The only exercise some women get
is jumping to conclusions and running
other people down.
4* 4 4 4*
“Butchers are usually of a bright, cheerful
nature,” declares doctor.
Always looking on the silver-side?
4 4 4 4
“A writer to a daily paper says he is pre-
pared to subscribe £lOO to a fund to eliminate
big noises.”
He forgot to mention, however, what
constituencies they represented.
4 4 4 4
“Sixty out of seventy prizes in a Peace Essay
Competition among schoolchildren in England
were won by girls.”
For the other 10 prizes the boys have
agreed to fight it out.
4 4 4 4
“In each square yard of garden soil there are
approximately 11 earthworms.”
— ‘‘World’s News.”
Except when you’re going fishing.
4 4 4 4
“You can tell some people’s character by
the way they sit.” — Women’s mag.
And others by the way they lie.
Bare Fact.
“Girls of to-day think of nothing except
clothes,” declares octogenarian.
Our aged friend, I fear, is talking rot.
To this all true observers will assent;
For modern girls are obviously not
Wrapped up in clothes to any great
extent.
T. W. N.
“Man has armor-plated artery.”
—Scientific journal.
A lot of politicians have armor plate
on the brain.
❖ 4* + •f
“Many women are martyrs to beauty.”
— Women’s mag.
Well, they’re prepared to dye for it.
4 4 4 4
“Suit Tried on in Court. Adjustments
Ordered.” —“S. M. Herald.”
That’s not new ; many have been col-
lared, plenty have lost their shirt, and
quite a few have taken a fit in court.
4* •5* 4*
Saved.
The editor of the “Morning Hoot” was
troubled.
“Here we are with crises all over the
place, and the Foreign Editor has to go
and get himself ill,” he growled. “Hitler
speaks on Monday and Mussolini on
Wednesday, and we’ve got no Foreign
Editor. We must retain our reputation
for telling the public what these men are
going to say and do days before the
events. Whom are we going to put in his
place, that’s what I want to know.’
“I was going to suggest the Sporting
Editor,” said the chief sub.
“The Sporting Editor?” The great man
was dubious. “Do you think he would
be a success?”
“Well, he’s in good form just now. He
tipped two seconds at Warwick Farm last
Saturday.”
“The very man!” cried the editor. “Put
him on the job right away.”
Leon.
+ +
“The Nazis have started a campaign against
‘swing’ music throughout the Reich.”
So much for those who contend that
Hitler has done nothing deserving of
praise!
4 4 4 4
“To be entertained by a comedian is an
excellent tonic.” — Medical writer.
But some comedians give us a bad
turn.
Eternal Tri-wrangle.
“When a young married couple take in a
boarder who is also young, the sequel is all
too often told in this court.”
—Divorce Court Judge.
E’en as the cuckoo in the nest
Brings anguish to some feathered breast.
So does the boarder, young and free,
Disrupt the new-wed harmony.
For love, secure in calm seclusion,
Will often fly at rude intrusion.
1 sadly with the Judge agree
That two is co., but three’s co-re.
Leon.
Trimmers.
“One hairdresser said she had quite a
number of men customers for hair waves.”
—Sydney paper.
When we had the Wacko Beauty Salon
for Men Only we got so far as giving
baldheaded men a perm. This proved
a great boon to wives who had mislaid
the washboard.
Our specialty, the Harbor Bridge Eye-
brow Arch, became all the rage with
wharf-laborers.
We got a bad scare one day when we
burnt a hole in a politician’s head with
“ 'Ere y'are, boys. A bob a pint w'ile she lasts."
our patent stump-jump hair-waver. It
was only by sheer good luck that we dug
up an old ivory worker who did a fine
repair job.
It was that damfool “Daily Ditherer”
offering a prize for the most glamorous
navvy that upset us. We had so many
of the horny-handed ones sitting about
the salon with their hair in bobby-pins
that we started to rush them through the
mud-pack treatment.
They all got a verdict against us for
gravel-rash, and it broke us.
D. MCM.
The Art of Politics.
I.
Politics is the science of misgovern-
ment.
It might be asked, then, why are those
who misgovern us not scientists? The
answer is, they are, though they are not
designated such.
It was a scientist who discovered the
means of blowing his fellow-men up;
Parliamentary scientists are still finding
new ways of doing it. And for sheer
brilliance of invention, could Faraday,
Edison or Diesel hold a candle to the
politician with his uncanny faculty of
ferreting out new methods of extorting
taxes from his employers?
Misgovernment of a country is con-
ducted on what is known as the party
system.
A party is a number of elected repre-
sentatives of the people who, under
threats of losing their pre-selection at
the next election, agree to cease their
private brawling on the ringing of the
division bells and vote as the party bosses
order.
Soupgargler, in his History of Party-
Politics, explains that the name “party”
was adopted owing to the practice among
newly-elected Parliamentarians of “mak-
ing whoopee every time the gleeful
thought struck them that they had landed
the world’s cushiest job.”
There might be only one party, as in
totalitarian countries, or as many as
125, as in France. The former system
is adopted in the interests of economy
and tyranny; the latter in the interests of
the highly-paid party leaders. The Eng-
lish, just to be different, limit their parties
to three or four.
A party may sometimes change its
name, but its character never alters.
Sometimes a party’s name is changed
in order to avoid a national crisis, as,
for instance, when the change from Tory
and Whig respectively to Conservative
and Liberal was decided on.
It came about when W. S. Gilbert was
writing the libretto of “lolanthe.” The
satirist had got down the line
Every little boy or girl who’s born into
this world alive
but was stuck for a rhyme, for he
wanted the next line to end with one of
the political parties then extant. He
had gnawed one-half of his moustache
and his pencil almost away before he
thought of a couple of coined words, so
he whipped in
Is either a little Liberal or else a little
Conservative.
Rather than see a work of national
importance held up, the Whigs and
Tories patriotically agreed to be known
by these names in the future.
In Australia a party changes its name
only when its bosses have an idea that
the old name hums so much that if they
stick to it they’ll get horribly belted at
the next election.
It is the Parliamentary duty of one
party to take a rise out of the opposing
parties at every opportunity. Paradoxi-
cally, a party that has succeeded in doing
this will sometimes give a rise to
the parties it has just taken one out of.
Occasionally, if the electors are gauged
to be more dopy than usual, it will even
back-date the rise four months.
To those unacquainted with political
moves it may seem passing strange that
one party should be so liberal with some-
one else’s money that it will bestow lavish
gifts on its hated rivals.
Actually, the moiives are rooted in the
richest soil of patriotism. It would ob-
viously be unfair if the Opposition parties
had to bear the whole responsibility for
the distribution of this largesse, so, self-
sacrificingly determined to accept their
rightful portion of the burden, the mem-
bers of the Government party include
themselves in the handout.
Thus it will be seen that at the follow-
ing elections the Opposition, having par-
ticipated in the loot, will scarcely be in
a position to sling this up at the Govern-
ment party; this will in turn mean less
recrimination and therefore a speedier
campaign, which in the end will prove
less costly to the taxpayers.
It is in the passing of a measure such
as this that the true nobility and dignity
of Parliamentary practice may be
observed. The acrimonious debate; the
imputation of ulterior motives ; the bitter
contesting of a coritroversial section;
the hurling of strong epithets—all the
friction which inevitably marks de-
bates on comparatively unimportant
measures like the Budget gives place here
to unanimity and expedition. There is
evident among all members a feeling of
deep understanding, an appreciation,
belated perhaps, but none the less whole-
hearted if temporary, of “the other side.”
It is Parliament at its best, doing some-
body worth while.
S. W. K.


Meggitt, 28s. 3d.
At 28s. 3d. the fully-paid ords.
of Meggitt, Ltd., return £7 3s. per
cent, on a 10 p.c. div, basis, and
though the building trade is
slackening somewhat this concern
is still doing a good business.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL .' . 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
• • •
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service .
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
(3 OMuikUlllQ^
Business,Rollery,Ete
New Occidental
The largest goldmine in N. S. Wales
isn’t a very big div.-payer. Like many
another mine it has been a sharemarket
disappointment, while, again, a number
of estimates made in the past have, in
the light of actual experience, turned
out to be of a “rough” nature. There
are hopes that the higgledy-piggledy
aspects of the proposition as a gold-
mining investment will soon be straight
ened out, and that shareholders and
others will be able to get a clear-cut view
of probable ore reserves, recoveries, costs
and profits. Future capital outlay is
another query. A squabble on the board
should be settled one way or another at
the annual meeting on the 28th.
New Occidental in September, 1936,
bought the New Cobar mine for 200,000
ss. shares. While Occidental ore iis
amenable to the comparatively simple
treatment of cyanidation, presence of
copper in the New Cobar ore made a
flotation plant necessary. The Occidental
plant has been in production for about
3y years ; the Cobar mill has had only
one full year’s running.
During the year to Nov. 30 last the
co. put through 13,968 tons more
(95,657 tons altogether) Occidental ore.
A quick view of the capital, ore and
treatment position of both mines is seen
in this table:
New New
Occidental. Cobar.
Paid capital .. £303,750 in 1,012,500 ss. ords
and 202,500 10 p.c. redeem-
able ss. prefs.
Ore reserves —
Positive .. 337,401 tons 93,855 tons
(8.21dwt.) (7dwt., 1.3 p.c.
copper)
Probable .. 377,000 tons 155,000 tons
Treatment, 1938 —
Ore .. .. 95,657 tons 45,045 tons
Gold recovery 31,3590 z. 13,2300 z.
Copper „ 609 tons
Proceeds, ton £2 17s. lOd. £3 4s. lid.
Wkg. costs.. £1 15s. 7d. £2 10s. 7d.
Wkg. profit .. £1 2s. 3d. 14s. 4d.
Occidental recoveries were 6.56dwt. a
ton compared with 6.B7dwt. in the pre-
ceding year; the drop of o.3ldwt. was
not fully accounted for by a fall of
o.2Bdwt. in head value of the ore treated
(7.72dwt., against Bdwt.). Recovery
wasn’t quite so g00d—84.93 p.c., against
85.85 p.c. Since the close of accounts
a slightly better metallurgical recovery is
reported.
New Cobar’s 45,045 tons treated last
term had a head value of 7.26dwt. gold
and 1.36 p.c. copper. Recoveries of.
s.BBdwt. gold represented only 80.89 p.c.,
but 84 p.c. is now being won. Copper
extraction was 99.1 p.c., which is ex-
cellent. Costs are very heavy; realisa-
tion of concentrates runs to 10s. Id.
per ton of Cobar ore.
Last term total proceeds were
£446,797, gross profit £138,717, directors’
fees and office exes. £10,521, net profit
£128,196. Only £4009 was written off
capitalised expenditure, and no depre-
ciation was charged. The pref. div. and
6d. a share on the ords. was declared,
absorbing £34,532. A credit balance of
£120,974 in p. and 1. account, including
accumulations, is to be transferred to
reserve for mine depletion and depre-
ciation. It will bring that fund up to
£158,974, and the move is an appropri-
ate one; undistributed earnings are
largely represented now by mine, plant
and stores.
The financial position on Nov. 30 was
as follows: —-
Mine property .. .. .. .. £117,814
Development .. .. .. .. 33,956
Plant, etc. .. .. .. .. 276,104
Bioken ore and bullion .. .. 49,890
Stores .. . . .. .. .. 39,223
Debtors, cash, etc. .. .. .. 11,888
£528,875
Liabilities .. .. .. . . 22,445
Mine valuation, plus surplus liquids £506,430
Since New Cobar was bought about 30
months ago there has been an outlay
“ You've been misinformed, constable. No suspicious characters in here.”
of over £140,000 on plant (including
part of the Occidental unit), and £26,000
has been charged to development. Dur-
ing the two completed financial years
in that period: net profits have aggre-
gated £221,258, and £50,625 of pref.
capital has . been got in. Divs. declared
have totalled £120,000; with capital
outlay, they have more than consumed
met earnings and new capital. The dis-
tribution to be made on Feb. 27, how-
should be covered by the net earn-
ings for the . three months since the
accounts closed.
For the New Cobar mine to be worth
its salt, much more ore or much more
profit per ton will need to be brought
to light. Something may yet be done
with the high costs here. The Occidental
mine is the better proposition, and there
are hopes of treating the Hdwt. slimes
that have accumulated. Management
will have a great deal to do with the
future success or otherwise of the whole
enterprise.
The economic problems of the moment
are being sidestepped, as other difficulties
have been for some time. Only the
reports of bank boards make any attempt
to analyse the general outlook and array
the good points against the bad. The
daily papers are trying to “wish’ pros-
perity on the public against the people’s
will to spend their savings ; the record
deposits in the savings-banks are a
grievance in the eyes of many lend-and-
spend apostles, and overwhelming quan-
tities of futile blather about raising
wages, borrowing for “works,” the in-
creased price of vegetables and “what
we have done for you” is the general
thing from politicians and the press. The
Premier of N. S. Wales has beat a
strategic retreat by giving, up the job of
Treasurer, which he was satisfied to hold
during the recovery years.. The State won’t
balance its Budget this year.despite the
record taxes being levied, and in other
parts of the Commonwealth public
finances are in a waterlogged condition,
In one way it’s just as well that “war
is thundering at our gates,” because
Canberra is shaking in its shoes about
other matters, and without the thunder
the shakes would be very audible. The
Australian outlook is just now at a very
touchy stage, and those political gentle-
men who had ideas of giving themselves
powers over the Commonwealth Bank
board, and thus over the trading banks,
don’t seem to know whether they are
going or coming. Actually, of course,
they are going—it’s an open secret.
* * * *
The rising cost of living in Australia
shows little sign of slackening. Increased
rail freights in one State at least, higher
municipal rates, Government taxes, etc.,
in others, as well as the threatened (or is
it?) “national” insurance, are not likely
to ease the position. Actually, a running
away in the cost of living is one of the
firstfruits of government by political ex-
pediency. A country’s economic and
political sins of omission and commission
invariably find themselves out in in-
flation of living costs. It takes a-deter-
mined hand to keep them anywhere near
stability. When stability goes, so does
confidence.
H= * * *
Huddart Parker has had a good year
by the look of its final div. A bonus
of 2 p.c. makes 14 p.c. for the term to
Dec. 31, compared with 11 p.c. for the
previous 12 months,
and the total distri-
bution is the highest
since 1927. There
have been no bonus
issues or indirect
benefits to share-
holders since 1922,
when a one-for-two
free distribution was
made to the ords.
For three years dur-
ing the slump 5 p.c.
p.a. went out. The
co.’s principal pas-
senger vessels, the
Wanganella and
Westralia, are turn-
ing in excellent
profits, and the
Katoomba and other
Tasmanian shipping
interests are doing
their bit. H.P. has
an interest in Amal-
gamated Wireless
among its extensive
list of shareholdings.
,
Melbourne Steam ords., which last
changed hands at 28s„ cum Sd. div
show. 5,1 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis, and
look, especially attractive among Aus-
tralian shipping stocks. True, there is
a restricted market for the shares, and
the div. hasn’t been increased.for some
time, but the management has-always
been-particularly canny and careful.


'y'\'y
WfTTr
m
i
■
■
m
BP ; .
MPh
Hi
■
mm
m
m
¥
m
m
Hotel Kosciusko Easter Tour
Leaving Sydney April 6, returning April 11
£6/5/-
The above rate includes rail, Sydney to Cooma and
return, second-class reserved seats, motor Cooma to
Kosciusko and return, Hotel Kosciusko,
motor tour to Summit.
Reservations at
N.S.W. Government Tourist Bureau
Challis House 8 Martin Place Sydney
ill
m
■:y,r y
Mi!
111 l
e
a
eby
ON THE LAGUNE
u>n4
Venice with its never changing charm—Mecca of every
tourist. Formerly, this famous beauty spot and others
equally attractive to the tourist were months away. To-
day, methods and speed of travel have so advanced that
these distant places are only a few days, even hours away.
With these increasing travel facilities, Travellers’ Cheques
and Letters of Credit, have taken on a greater importance.
Not only are they a great convenience and an insurance
against loss of cash, against pickpockets and hotel thieves,
but they help materially in expediting conversion of funds
into local currency, wherever you travel. For small
amounts, Travellers’ Cheques are recommended. These
are issued in denominations of £z, £5, £lO. For larger
amounts, a Letter of Credit is recommended.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited, (incorporated in Victoria''
61-16-38
Amalgamated Textiles
A . t,
The director . s °* Amai gama . • ‘
tiles (Australasia), Ltd., were c 1
he shareholder meeting held in Sydney
last Friday. The stoc _s
marised by T. J. , •
former general manager who was d.s-
covered drowned ln s .
last year had beeta found to :show values
fn at S s pt - ® , >j nv
rn 6 *° k^ epe / I^^, nt va !uat on '
3U; the check-up on Sutcliffe s figures
altered the whole aspect of the co. s
financial position as presented in the
accounts, and caused a crash n the
market value of the shares. It was an-
other example of what can happen to an
investment when a responsible and
trusted officer of the company for some
reason or another lays himself out to
deceive others interested in the welfare
of the business.
The reason why Sutcliffe started weav-
inff this tnnfflpH wph nf Hecention nos-
ing this tangled web or decep p
sibly died with him ; in any case, there
hasn’t been much publicity on the point.
There seems nothing for shareholders to
do but face up to an unpleasant situation
and accept it as it is; in fact, old share-
holders in the co. should be stoics by
this, because their investment has never
been a financial success. Whatever divs.
have come along have been miserable,
and there was a cut of 6s. Bd. a share in
capital some years back. Market value
of the scrip is now around 3s.
The co. specialises in producing
medium-grade worsteds at its Albury,
Orange and Goulburn mills. The stock
books, according to W. R. Campbell,
chairman of last week’s shareholders’
meeting, were certified by the mill man-
agers and sent to Sydney, where they were
falsified by Sutcliffe. The sheets had not
been rewritten. “It was a most wonder-
ful piece of work, and I do not think
anybody could have found it' out. No
shareholder was more angry than the
directors when the position was found
out. No one can provide against a dis-
honest man.” A shareholder asked
whether Sutcliffe was wholly and solely
responsible, and Campbell replied, “Yes,
definitely.”
There were some noisy and critical
shareholders at the meeting. An investi-
gation of the co.’s affairs was asked for,
but the motion was defeated on a poll,
The chairman said there could be no
charge against the directors. It would
have required an expert mathematician to
find out the position of the falsified stock-
sheets. Sutcliffe had been one of the
world’s outstanding mathematicians, and
flj s books on econom j cs wer e standard
wQrks jn universities He was also a
well-known man in Sydney, and “a friend
0 | many organisations and the judiciary.’'
y direct ors, Campbell added, were
not there to check stocks. Quantities and
ha<j feked jn a way he fce .
lieved no one could detect. The system
used by the co. followed commercial
;/ it was (oolproof; but not
s k „ of
Moy|n F adoption of (he r , and
* heet £ chairman said:-
....
~£ * = „, s wefbe-
yOU_ As Sutcliffe paid the penalty
of taking his life rather than face the dis-
grace attendant upon the position now
“ by. *■,
or unmanly comments on the action of the
late general manager, but rather I ask that
all of you should stand solidly behind
your board in its real and earnest endeavor
to see whether it is possible yet to achieve
success.
a new g m has been appointed, and
temporary finance has been found to
COV er manufacturing up to March 31.
Hopes are held that improved demand
w jfl se t in for the co.’s • medium-priced
worsteds, and an interim report on opera-
tions, made up to March 31, should be
available for shareholders by May.
Although the Dow-Jones sharemarket
index in New York strengthened early
Inst week, London was slightly Weaker,
and base metals were dull all round,
Even tin, bravest of the brave in its
battle up the price scale, faltered, com-
ing back to £212 ; though only £5 below
the highest price of the last 18 months
or so, it was also the lowest quote since
the end of October. Since the intro-
duction of the buffer pool scheme sent
tin to above £2OO sterling, in fact, the
metal has been remarkably steady about
£215, for over three months variations
being restricted to a pound or so per
ton.; Under present conditions the metal
promises still to be comparatively steady
and profitable to most Australian pro-
ducers. Lead and spelter have no life
in them at present, but overseas trade
developments may bring about a favor-
able change later this year.
* * * *
Woolworths, the parent concern of
the Australian chain-store organisation,
has stated profits for the year to Jan. 31
at £271,693—up £54,000. Out of this
22.4 p.c. on ord. capital a final div. of
11| p.c. has been declared, making 17|
p.c. for the year, as against 15 p.c. last
term, and regaining the rate paid for
1936, which was before the one-for-one
bonus issue. As late as March, 1938,
a one-for-five free distribution was made,
which makes the 17|/for the term just
closed even better than it looks in com-
parison with the previous term’s div.
distribution. At 235. per ss. share the
market gets a yield of just under 4 p.c.
from the stock.
* * * *
Australian Paper Manufacturers, in
conjunction with other interests, is study-
ing the possibilities of making trans-
parent wrapping-paper and perhaps
rayon, as well as other cellulose pro-
ducts, in Victoria. Raw material will be
derived from the Gippsland eucalyptus-
pulping mill of A.P.M., which is nearing
commercial production. A.P.M., as
pointed out here many times, has at
present a very solid profit-earning posi-
tion with its brown-paper and cardboard
enterprises, and there are always possi-
bilities of new developments such as at
present contemplated. Australasian Paper
and Cumberland Paper control A.P.M.,
and it is through these two holding cos.
that the public is interested.
* * * v
Adelaide Steam's interim of 3| p.c.
compares with 3 p.c., 3 p.c. and 2\ p.c.
declared in the month of February of
1938, 1937 and 1936 respectively. In
1936 a final of 3| p.c. made 6 p.c. for
the full year; in 1937 arid 1938 a final
of 4 p.c. made 7 p.c. p.a. The rise in
the interim payable on March 14 sug-
gests that at least 74 p.c. will go out
for the year to June 30 next. In that
case the co.’s shares at 325. would re-
turn £4 15s. per cent., allowing for the
div. now accrued. It is a first-class stock
at a r reasonable price. The scrip was
pointed out at 31s. 6d. here a fortnight
ago. ,
* * * *
At a meeting of shareholders in Trade
Credits (Australasia), Ltd., held in Syd-
ney last Thursday, the liquidator an-
nounced that a distribution of not
more than 3s. a share might be
possible. On the other hand, liti-
gation initiated in South Australia, if
successful, might preclude the payment
of all or part of such dividend. Claims
totalling £60,630 had been made by 75
S. shareholders. Trade Credits (Aus-
tralasia) had been joined in writs with
other defendants —the liquidator of
Hamiltons (Australasia), past directors of
T. (Australasia), Trade Credits, Ltd.,
Hamiltons (Australasia) and some sales-
men. During the course of Hamiltons’
activities, said the liquidator (A. D.
Bridges), shares in Trade Credits, Ltd.,
or in Trade Credits (Australasia) were
sold, and allegations of misrepresenta-
tion had now been made.
* * * *
Briseis Tin, operating the old tinmine
at Derby (Tas.) under management of
Burma Malay, is now on the div. list, a
threepenny distribution being payable to-
day (22nd). In order to pay four such
divs. a year, earnings of more than
£30,000 p.a. would be required, or some-
thing greater than three times the 1937
disclosed earnings. For 1938 a working
profit of about £38,500 was earned, and,
with production now at over 50 tons a
month and tin at around £2lO in Lon-
don, a shilling a year would appear to
be a comfortable proposition—barring
accidents to prices and mining operations.
There are 600>000 ss. shares in Briseis,
now at 7s. 6d. each on the market. Un-
der present conditions they aren’t visibly
worth a great deal more. But future
development may add to prospects ; price
fluctuations in the metal may alter the
outlook either way.
H* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Waldas Shoes agreed to amalgamate with
the Public Benefit Bootery Pty. Elimina-
tion of competition between these two chains
of shoe-shops is expected to help profit-earning,
and 10 p.c. divs. from Waldas in the future
were mentioned. They have yet to be shown,
but improvement of some kind should follow
the merger.
Australian Cement shares sold at the record
price of 365., and in Sydney Kandos scrip rose
to 28s.
Felt and Textiles ords. settled down at
31s. 6d. after terms of the new pref. issue
were announced.
Inquiry for National Bank £5 shares at
£6 Bs. (last sale quote) found no sellers.


UIICABLED ADDITIONS
What Hitler Also Said.
[Though cable versions of Herr Hitler’s speech
before the Reichstag on January 30 were fairly exten-
sive, a great deal of what the German leader said was
perforce omitted, while much of what was given was
badly mangled in hasty translating and condensing.
The extracts now given here are from the complete
translation published in brochure form in London by the
Anglo-German Information Service. Some of these
items are complete passages that were represented
only by a rough sentence or two in cables; others were
not included in cable versions, though they will be read
with the greatest interest by those who wish to know
for themselves what Herr Hitler actually said, instead of
what some unnamed alleged “authority” or other read
into his words.]
The history of the last thirty years has taught us
all one great lesson, namely, that the importance of
nations in the world is proportionate to their strength
at home. The number and value of a population
determine the importance of a nation as a whole, but
the final and decisive part played in the valuation of
the real strength of a nation will always be found in
the state of its internal order; that is, the organisation
of its national strength.
Jfc ifc Jfc % sfc
What is the root cause of all our economic diffi-
culties? It is the overpopulation of our territory. And
in this connection there is only one fact and one ques-
tion which I can hold up to the critics in the Western
and in the extra-European democracies. The fact is
this: in Germany there are 135 people to the square
kilometre, living entirely without external ■ assistance
and without their former reserves ; for 15 years a prey
to all the rest of the world, burdened with tremendous
debts, without colonies. The German people are
nevertheless fed and clothed, and, moreover, there are
no unemployed among them.
If we chose particular methods, the reason was
simply that we were forced into particular circum-
stances. And, in fact, our position was so difficult
that there can be no possible comparison with the
position of the other great States. There are countries
in the world where, instead of 135 people to the square
kilometre, as there are in Germany, there are only
between five and eleven ; where vast stretches of fer-
tile land lie fallow, where all imaginable minerals are
available ; there are countries which have all this, and
the natural wealth of coal, iron and ore, and yet are
not even capable of solving their ov/n social prob-
lems, of doing away with unemployment or of over-
coming their other difficulties.
*****
The question of the form of government or of the
organisation of the national community is not a sub-
ject for international debate at all. It is a matter of
absolute indifference to us in Germany what form of
government other nations have. At the most, it is a
matter of indifference to us whether National Social-
ism—which is our copyright, just as Fascism is the
Italian one —be exported or not. We are not in the
least interested in this ourselves! We see no advan-
tage in making shipments of National-Socialism as an
idea, nor do we feel that we have any occasion to
make war on other peoples because they are demo-
crats.
*****
The war, in which Germany found herself in-
volved purely as a result of a mistaken interpretation
of loyalty to an ally, ended with that fantastic pro-
clamation of the famous American President Wilson.
These 14 points, which were then supplemented by
four additional ones, represent the solemn commit-
ments of the Allied Powers, on the basis of which Ger-
many laid down her arms. After the Armistice these
undertakings were broken in the most infamous
manner. There then began the insane efforts of the
victor States to transform the sufferings of the war
into a permanent state of warfare during times of
peace. If for the most part an end has been put to
this condition to-day, this has not happened because
the democratic statesmen have displayed insight or
even merely a sense of equity, but solely through the
strength of the reawakened German nation. It is in
any case a fact that at the end of the war any rational
consideration would have shown that no State had
visibly profited.
*****
The theft of the German colonies was morally an
injustice. Economically it was utter insanity! The
political motives advanced were so mean that one is
tempted merely to call them silly.
In 1918, after the end of the war, the victorious
Powers really would have had the authority to bring
about a reasonable settlement of international prob-
lems. The lack of such a settlement cannot be excused
by the fact that feeling was running too high to allow
the nations to listen to the voices of sensible states-
men. Nor would this be exactly to tho credit of the
democracies. The statesmen themselves had no idea
of what they were doing and of the consequences
which were bound to follow. In actual fact the prob-
lem at the end of the war had become still more criti-
cal than it was before the war. Quite briefly, the
problem was as follows: How can a just and sensible
share in the world’s wealth be assured to all great
nations? For surely no one can seriously assume
that, as in the case of Germany, a mass of 80 million
intelligent persons can be permanently condemned as
pariahs, or be forced to remain passive for ever by
having some ridiculous legal titles based solely on
former acts of force held up before them.
And this is true not only of Germany but of all
nations in a similar position. For it is quite clear
that either the wealth of the world is divided by force,
in which case this division will be recorrected from
time to time by force, or else the division is based on
grounds of equity and therefore also of commonsense,
in which case equity and commonsense must also
really serve the cause of justice and ultimately of
expediency.
The objection that these colonial possessions are
of no importance in any case should only lead to their
being returned to us with an easy mind. But the ob-
jection that this is not possible because Germany would
not know what to do with them, since she did not do
anything with them before, is ridiculous. Germany,
who was late in acquiring her colonial possessions,
was able to develop them in a relatively short time,
and before the war was not faced by the same acute
needs as to-day.
The further objection that her colonial possessions
cannot be returned to her because Germany would
thus acquire a strategic position is a monstrous attempt
to deny their common rights to a nation and a people
a priori. Germany does not require her colonial
possessions at all in order to set up armies there —she
has a sufficiently large German population for this
purpose at home —but to relieve her economic diffi-
culties. But even if this be not believed, it is wholly
immaterial and in no way affects our rights. Such an
objection would only be justified if the rest ot the
world wished to give up its military bases and were
only forced to maintain them if Germany were to be
given back her colonies.
The fact remains that a nation of 80 millions
will not be willing permanently to be assessed dif-
ferently from other nations. The fallacy and poverty
of these arguments clearly show that at bottom it is
only a question of power, in which commonsense and
justice receive no consideration.
From the commonsense point of view, the very
reasons which could once be advanced against taking
Germany’s colonies from her can be used to-day for
their return. As she lacks a sphere of economic de-
velopment for herself Germany is forced to satisfy her
own requirements by an increasing participation in
world trade and exchange of goods. For on one point
those very nations must be agreed, which themselves
have immense economic possibilities at their disposal,
either because they themselves occupy a large terri-
tory or because they have great additional colonial
possessions, namely, that the economic existence of a
nation cannot be maintained without a sufficient supply
of foodstuffs or without certain indispensable raw
materials. If both are lacking, a nation is forced to
participate in world trade at all costs and perhaps to
an extent which may even be undesirable to other
countries.
Conditions to-day make it quite impossible for
Germany to withdraw from world trade. They simply
compel us by the mere force of necessity to partici-
pate in it in all circumstances, even when the
form of our participation does not perhaps suit one
country or another. In this connection I must add
that the reproach that world trade is declining through
the German methods of a mutual exchange of goods
can, if it is correct at all, only be addressed to those
who are to blame for this development, and they are
the States with an international-capitalist outlook, who
by their currency manipulations have arbitrarily de-
stroyed every fixed relationship between individual
currencies as it suited their own egoistic needs. But
in these circumstances the German system of ex-
changing for every piece of honest work an equally
honest piece of work is a more decent practice than
payment in foreign currency which a year later will
be devalued by so and so much per cent.
Germany does not force her trading methods
upon anybody else, but neither does she let any Par-
liamentary democrat lecture her on the principles on
which she shall or may act. We are buyers of good
foodstuffs and raw materials and suppliers of equally
good commodities! It is clear that everything which
an economic system cannot produce in the territory
in which its own currency circulates can only be im-
ported as additional commodities by an increased turn-
over in exports. But since a nation which has an in-
sufficient freedom of movement economically is im-
peratively forced to import foreign raw materials and
foodstuffs, its economic system by doing so is acting
under the most arbitrary force which exists, namely,
the force of necessity!
What cannot be solved satisfactorily from the eco-
nomic point of view with the resources which are actu-
ally at our disposal to-day must find its solution
through our participation in world trade. German
economic policy is subjugated to necessities of such
severity that no sort of threat with capitalistic weapons
can restrain us from this course, because the power
which impels us does not lie in the desire for profits
of a few capitalists, but rather in the exigent situation
of our whole people, a situation forced on us for no
good reason through somebody else’s fault. And it
is completely immaterial what regime attends to the
interests of the German nation ; all that matters is that
they are attended to. That is to say, no other regime
could ignore the present economic necessities. It would
have to follow exactly the same course.
Under the compulsion of this need we have
learned, in the first place, to take full account of the
most essential capital of a nation, namely, of its capa-
city to work. All thoughts of a gold reserve and
foreign exchange fade before the industry and effi-
ciency of well-planned national productive resources.
However, in one respect increase in our produc-
tion cannot take place, viz., in respect of our food
supply. What the German farmer manages to produce
from the German soil is astounding and hardly be-
lievable. At one point, however, nature sets the limit
to any further intensification of effort. That means,
if some change does not take place, that German con-
sumption power would find its natural limitation in
the maximum of production of food supplies. The
situation which would then arise could only be over-
come in two ways:
(1) By means of additional imports of foodstuffs,
i.e., an increased export of German products, which
would necessitate the importation of at least some of
the raw materials necessary for their manufacture, with
the result that only a proportion of import proceeds
would be available for the purchase of foodstuffs; or
(2) the extension of our nation’s living area, so that,
in our domestic economy, the problem of Germany’s
food supplies can be solved.
As the second solution is for the time being not
yet feasible, by reason of the continued blindness of
the one-time victorious Powers, we are forced to
occupy ourselves with the first; in other words, we
have to export in order to buy foodstuffs, and more-
over, as these exports require raw materials, all of
which we do not possess, we are forced to export still
more, in order to assure ourselves of these extra raw
materials. This necessity is consequently not of a
capitalistic kind, as perhaps may be the case in other
countries, but arises out of the uttermost need a
nation can meet with, namely, the need for its daily
bread.
The German nation must live (that means, export'
or die. The German nation will not die, least of all
for this reason. If need be, it will place all the produc-
tion resources of our new National-Socialist commu-
nity at the disposal of its leaders to begin such a
struggle, and to see it through.
*****
In 1933 and 1934 I made one offer after another
to set reasonable limits to armaments. They were
coldly rejected, as was the claim for the return of
the stolen German colonial possessions. It would
have been wiser to have reached a reasonable and
prudent agreement with Germany in regard to the
colonies and European politics, rather than to have
taken a course which perhaps yields enormous divi-
dends to the international armament profiteers, but
at the same time forces the gravest burdens on the
nations. I estimate that the three million square kilo-
metres of German colonial possessions which have
fallen to England and France, together with the refusal
to accept Germany on a basis of political and military
equality, will in a short time have cost England alone
20 milliard gold marks ; and I am afraid that in the
not-too-distant future this sum will increase at an even
greater rate.
The fact that we have other supplementary prob-
lems to face—that we are obliged to employ a large
percentage of our national labor power for national
armaments, which are not in themselves productive—
is to be regretted, but cannot be helped. For the
period in which Germany was defenceless was not
one in which we enjoyed any particular equality of
rights, whether internationally, politically or economi-
cally. It was rather one marked by the most humiliat-
ing treatment ever meted out to a great nation, and by
direst extortion.
*****
The German nation has no feeling of hatred
towards England, America or France ; all it wants is
peace and quiet. But these other nations are continu-
ally being stirred up to hatred of Germany and the
German people by Jewish and non-Jewish agitators.
And so, should the warmongers achieve what they
are aiming at, our own people would be landed in a
situation for which they would be psychologically
quite unprepared and which they would thus fail to
grasp. I therefore consider it necessary that from
now on our publicity and our press should always
make a point of answering these attacks, and, above
all, bring them to the notice of the German people.
The nations will in a short time realise that
National-Socialist Germany wants no enmity with
other nations; that all the assertions as to our in-
tended attacks on other nations are lies —lies born
of morbid hysteria or of a mania for self-preservation
on the part of certain politicians ; but that in certain
States these lies are being used by unscrupulous
profiteers to salvage their own finances. That, above
all, international Jewry may hope in this way to satisfy
its thirst for revenge and gain, but that, on the other
hand, this is the grossest defamation which can be
levelled at a great and peace-loving nation.
Synthetic Fabric.
The 1938 total of staple fabric output for
Italy, Japan and Germany has been given as
886,200,0001 b.: Italy 174,150,0001 b., Japan
328,200,0001 b., Germany 350,000,000.
How manufacture of staple fibre is increasing
is shown by the fact that the 1938 total for
Italy, Japan and Germany is higher than the
world total for the previous year. The very
rapid rate of increase in recent years is shown
by this table published in the English press:
Production of Staple Fibre.
(Millions of pounds.)
1932. 1934. 1935. 1936. 1937
Japan ..1 5 14 46 175
Germany ..9 16 38 95 220
Italy ..9 22 68 110 156
U.S.A. ..1 2 5 12 20
U.K. 2 3 10 26 35
France .. 2 4 5 6 11
Total .. 20 52 139 297 622


Spanish Tragedy.
[People who have sympathised with the Red Gov-
ernment side in Spain on the strength of propaganda
should have their eyes opened by some of the items given
here. Taken from various sources, these items provide
an account of, or throw light on, happenings in Spain’s
Civil War since the fall of Barcelona.]
In a Barcelona Prison
(This extract from a London "Times” special corre-
spondent s report is referred to in the panel item on
this page headed "The Noble Reds.”)
The terrible prison fortress of Montjuich, which
frowns over Barcelona, was abandoned by its guards
the night before the Nationalists entered the city.
Before the Republicans left they dealt out summary
justice to a number of prisoners, including women,
whose bodies are still lying on the western slopes of
the hill.
When the Nationalists scaled the slopes and
opened the gates the unfortunates who still remained
they numbered about 500—asked to be allowed to
remain in confinement another day in order to avoid
confusion. On Friday they were all released with the
exception of a few wretched victims of torture who
were unable to rise from their beds.
The place is redolent of tragedy. In the western
moat are visible the walls where the firing squads did
their deadly work. There General Goded, leader of
the Nationalist movement in Barcelona, died. When
the prison was full over 3000 people were crammed
into the subterranean dungeons. Prisoners were classi-
fied according to the time and place of their capture.
One long dark cell confined the prisoners from Bel-
chite ; into another were herded, along with 200 others,
the Bishop of Teruel and Colonels Rey and Barbas,
commanders of the garrison who surrendered over a
year ago. These prisoners have been removed to an
unknown destination. Four waterless latrines were
the only sanitary arrangements at the disposal of the
3000.
Those condemned to death were removed from
the communal cells and placed 30 at a time in small
calabozos— known as “tubes,” 20ft. by 10ft. They
were kept incomunicados there perhaps weeks or
months, without mattresses or any covering except a
blanket. Their rations were terribly scanty, consisting
of about a dozen boiled beans twice a day. On days
of air raids captive German and Italian airmen
received nothing.
I was able to talk in privacy for an hour with one
of the few who survived a long martyrdom—a former
employee of the Bank of Spain. Although he had
been condemned to death eight months before, his
body bore marks of terrible flogging, and from the
state of his wounds it was obvious that they had been
inflicted recently. On one occasion he received in-
juries so serious that a major operation proved
necessary.
Restoring Barcelona
(Condensed from London “Times.”)
General Alvarez Arenas, the provisional National-
ist Governor of Barcelona, in a preamble to his first
decree said:
Let no one think that the thunder of guns and
roar of combat heralded a rule based on the right of
conquest. Let no one suppose that the weight of the
victors will be used to crush the vanquished. Apart
from those responsible for the Spanish tragedy no
one need fear the new regime which is being in-
augurated in Barcelona. The joyous Motherland has
recovered her lost sons.
The joy of the recovered sons at least is evident.
The Nationalist occupation of the Catalan capital,
the substitution of new rulers for the old, the passage
through the city of two Army Corps—Moroccan and
Navarrese—all passed off without the slightest inci-
dent. Anyone could have walked from one end of
Barcelona to the other unmolested at any time of the
day or night since the Nationalists entered. The
troops were received with acclamation ; and the mag-
nificent discipline which they have maintained —which
was particularly noticed by the British and American
residents in the city—proves them worthy of it.
The city has made a great stride towards normal
life. Bonfires have been lit at many street corners in
order to destroy the accumulated litter. Large crowds
are strolling in the Paseo de Gracia and Las Ramblas
in the brilliant sunshine. * The mood of delirious ex-
citement has given place to one of quiet satisfaction.
Many reunions have been effected in the last
four days. Families which have been divided for over
two years have been united again. A lieutenant
entered my bedroom this morning and explained
briefly that he was the owner of the flat, put
a chair on the bed and extracted from the recesses of
a lamp hanging from the ceiling a small piece of
screwed-up tissue paper. Having examined its con-
tents he pocketed it, apologised for the intrusion and
disappeared as quickly ds he came with the recovered
treasure.
At the Frontier
(Condensed from the Paris “Daily Mail.”)
Even Spanish frontier officers have to keep their
automatics in their hands when they give orders, for
many have been shot down by mutinous Republican
guards and soldiers.
Apart from the disastrous condition and often
rebellious spirit of the hordes of refugees pouring into
France, the real danger comes from the Red militia-
men who, under cover of night, have managed to steal
into France at various points along this wild, desolate,
mountainous boundary.
About a thousand of these desperate, homeless
and armed wanderers have been rounded up and
placed under arrest.
These groups of militiamen cross over at some
isolated spot, far from any police or military post,
and decend on some tiny hamlet, where they threaten
the peasants into giving them food, lodging and cloth-
ing. After one farmer had refused to receive a party
of them in his house, they tried to set fire to his barn
stacked with hay.
In the centre of Prats-de-Mollo itself, a handful
of militiamen held up a shopkeeper and helped them-
selves to all they could find in the way of food and
money. Word of these outrages was sent to the near-
est military outpost, and, as a result, bands of Senegal-
ese riflemen are now patrolling the town and searching
the district.
(From London "Times.”)
There has been a distinct hardening of opinion
against allowing male refugees to enter France.
Depredations along the frontier by starving bands of
armed deserters who have invaded lonely farms have
turned sympathy away from them, so that the authori-
ties have taken the decision of turning back one and
all of the men whether in uniform or not found wan-
dering the roads.
This has given rise to some tragic scenes on the
frontier, where Spaniards thus sent back, in spite of
their protests that they desired to go over to the
Nationalist camp, have told their French guards, “You
are pronouncing upon us a sentence of death.”
Not the least undesirable among the hundreds
crossing the frontier are some of the men who present
themselves with their passports in order and with
motor-cars and luggage, for in the circumstances there
can be no guarantee that the passports may not be
false. A suitcase full of silver was found abandoned
in the Customs office. A Spanish trawler, the Cockatoo,
which arrived at Port Vendres, contained —besides
pistols, machine-guns and ammunition —paintings,
statues of saints, silver and jewellery.
Foreign Troops in Spain
[Condensed from a letter in London “Times”
(2/2/’39) by Lieut. Peter Kemp, writing as “the only
remaining English officer in the Spanish Foreign
Legion.”]
Once more we read about the “Four or Five
Italian divisions still fighting in Catalonia” when only
one division—the Littorio —remains. At no time, in
fact, were there more than two. Furthermore, in
November, 1936, when our advance was held up in
front of Madrid by the International Brigades, there
were no Italian troops in Spain, as I, who was there,
can witness.
As for material, about one-third of the National-
ists’ armaments have been captured from the Republi-
cans ; for example, a Nationalist tank section usually
consists of two large Russian and six small German
tanks.
The Nationalists never regarded the Italians as
“shock troops,” as the Republicans used the Inter-
national Brigades. Our fuerza de choque —the Legion
—are 90 per cent. Spaniards ; but at most of the great
battles, at Madrid, the Jarama,- Brunete, Belchite,
Teruel and the Ebro, our principal opponents were
foreigners of the International Brigades, and no
Italians were present on our side. We knew, there-
fore, whose cause was really that of Spain and who
were the real invaders.
Negrin Howled Down
Red militiamen and political refugees, now that
they have had a few good meals, are refusing to carry
out duties which at first they did readily, such as grind-
ing coffee, peeling potatoes and washing their own
dishes. They have even complained that their rations
of cold beef and ham, bread and potatoes cooked in
their jackets are not good enough. Political rivalry
is breaking out and several violent quarrels have taken
place among the militiamen.
One French officer summed up: “These Spaniards
are not increasing their prestige; they will be treated
according to their behavior.”
Senor Negrin, Premier of Republican Spain, who
was informed of the behavior of his militiamen, came
himself into France to exhort them to be more civil
and patient.
He was howled down as soon as he began to
speak and promptly left. — Paris “Daily Mail”
Sidelights
When General Franco’s troops entered Barcelona
they were met in the streets by huge crowds which
unloosed their pent-up emotion. Small columns of
troops which infiltrated to the centre of the city with
the red and gold national flag at their head were sud-
denly engulfed by seething, cheering and clapping
mobs. Tears mingled with shouting and laughter.
People seemed torn between hysterical abandon and
unbelief. News of the liberation spread round the
city like wildfire. — “Times.”
Nationalist lorries followed the troops into Bar-
celona. Passing through the side streets, there were
showered out from them, right and left, loaves of
bread, tins of condensed milk, bars of chocolate, tins
of sardines and sausages. Some tins were flung through
open doors and windows. Some crashed through panes
of glass. Nobody seemed to worry. With the lorries
came the blue-uniformed girls of the Franco relief
organisations. Scarlet and gold banners of Nationalist
Spain appeared on every other house. — “Daily Mail.”
Much play has been made with a statement that
General Franco claimed to have a “black list” of
2,000,000 Spaniards “guilty of crimes.” General
Franco has never made any such claim. There is a
2,000,000 card index of evidence of the commission
of crimes ; i.e., there are 2,000,000 pieces of evidence.
The number of criminals, who knows? Certainly
there are people responsible for the 400,000 to 500,000
murders in Red Spain. As the Barcelona Junta have
disclaimed responsibility for them, the crimes must be
the work of private individuals who are responsible
before the world. Justice demands that they be put
on trial, and as the “Government” condemns them
equally with General Franco it should assist in hand-
ing them over. The London publication “Spain,”
replying to “more and worse lies” The yarn about
Franco’s 2,000,000 black list of course figured
prominently in cables, but not this refutation.
A goods train steadily plies between Puigcerda
and La Tour de Carol carrying hundreds of women
and children each journey, a distance of about
miles. I saw it come in this afternoon. Women and
children peeping through the barred windows of the
covered freight vans made a sad and impressive pic-
ture. — “Times” correspondent.
Deserters from the Republican Army are still
trickling over the Pyrenees at various points. This
afternoon a group of about 20, weary and hungry-
looking, wearing ragged-looking uniforms and several
with long beards, hobbled into La Tour de Carol. One
of them, a young Valencian of about 22 years of age,
explained that they had fled from the Solsona sector.
They had managed to make their way through the
snow with little food to eat, and finally to reach French
soil. — “Times” correspondent.
Don Alfredo Garrido, Republican Spain’s Chan-
cellor, trudged across the snowy Pyrenees swathed in
white towels so that the sharpshooters would not see
him. — “Daily Herald.”
Many of the refugees who have crossed into
France could have remained in Barcelona or anywhere
else they happened to be. But nobody gave any in-
structions, so when the Government and army began
to move they resumed their migration. Those whose
menfolk were in the army followed it as best they
could. Propaganda about the cruelty of the Moors
and of the Fascists in general also played its part, and
not a few of the children, suddenly finding them-
selves face to face with the coal-black Senegalese at
the frontier, set up lusty howls, much to the distress
of those gentle warriors.— “ Times.” [Last week cables
reported that “since February 1, 380,000 refugees have
entered France, of whom 150,000 are civilians. Nearly
all the civilians have been sent into the interior, and
60,000 refugee soldiers have been repatriated. The
rest have been interned in camps, two of which each
contain 70,000 troops.” That is, 230,000 of the
refugees are soldiers —significant comment on their
real feelings towards the Communist cause.]
King Alfonso and his son, Prince Juan, who are
both in Rome, have sent congratulations to General
Franco. King Alfonso’s cable ran: “I extend my
enthusiastic congratulations to yourself and your army
together with my gratitude as a Spaniard. I reiterate
my adhesion and my confidence in our country’s awak-
ening. Long live Spain! ” — “Daily Mail.”
The Noble Reds.
On January 30 anil 31 a cable-item appeared in
some Australian newspapers touching: on the shock-
ing conditions discovered in the prison fortress of
Montjuich in Barcelona when that city fell.
The cable-item, which must have come as a
surprise to many after some two and a half years of
propaganda glorifying the nobility of the Negrin
Government, is given here for purposes of compari-
son with the first of the adjoining items, under the
general heading “Spanish Tragedy.” As cabled: —
Government guards, before abandoning Mont-
juich, killed a number of prisoners, including
women, and their bodies lie on the hillside. The
victors released 500, except for a few who had
been tortured and were unable to rise from their
beds.
The place reeks with tragedy. The walls where
firing squads executed victims are at the western
moat.
The prison, when full, contained 3000, who
were crammed in subterranean dungeons. Many
were removed to an unknown destination six
weeks ago.
Those sentenced to death were placed in cells
without mattresses, and given a blanket apiece.
They were fed on a dozen boiled beans twice
daily. Captive German and Italian airmen
remained foodless on air-raid days.
How much worse' were the Red torture and
murder of prisoners can he read in the adjoining
item “In a Barcelona Prison.”
As well as this there was last week’s cable-
account of the hideous massacre of more than 2000
priests. While such items largely explain the bitter-
ness of the fighting in Spain, their publication only
now when the Reds have collapsed must make
thoughtful people wonder why cables did not provide
such information all along.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRXISO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVEUNCSS THAT DAZZLESS !
Awaited with intense interest, the
meeting of Ajax and Manolive at stand-
ard weight-for-age in the St. George
Stakes at Caulfield proved a fiasco.
Manolive finished last—there were six
runners.
Such an anti-climax left spectators
gasping. Nine out of 10 jumped to the
conclusion that Manolive had broken
down, and—though unsupported by out-
ward evidence this opinion persisted
until much later, when trainer A. R.
Jamieson explained what actually had
happened.
The thing was exciting for half a mile.
Badger (Ajax) and Shean (Manolive)
gave their mounts free rein, and furlong
after furlong the chestnut and the brown
measured strides. For a moment Man-
olive was in front. But just when it
began to appear that Ajax might be
no longer invincible Manolive, in the
language of his young trainer, “stopped
dead.” He had arched the steel racing
plate on his off foreleg, and, being
unable to gallop with freedom, retired
from the fray.
Les Aldridge, who bred Manolive at
his Sunbury stud, rushed across to ex-
amine the stallion when he returned to
the weighing enclosure. Aldridge was
able to insert his index finger between
plate and hoof. His theory was that
Manolive had struck the plate with his
hind hoof and chipped it.
Finding that he no longer had Man-
olive to reckon with, Badger gave Ajax
a “breather.” The four furlongs had
taken 48ysec.; the next four were covered
in the more leisurely time of 50sec. But
the slowing-down could not continue.
Galloping in something like his best
style, Young Idea threw out a discon-
certing challenge.
Young Idea began his run three fur-
longs from home. Shifting out near the
post, Ajax left room for two horses on
the rails. Cox moved Young Idea into
the vacancy and made good use of it,
but Ajax scored by 1| lengths in lmin.
5 Usee. —a second slower than his course
record for nine furlongs.
Earnings of Ajax now amount to
£25,175. His sequence of 15 victories
equals that of Carbine and puts him one
ahead of Phar Lap. Before the season
ends we may find Ajax on the same
level as Desert Gold and Gloaming, each
of whom registered 19 wins in a row.
Only two horses were inquired for in
the St. George’s Stakes, Ajax figuring
at 4 to 1 on and Manolive at 4 to 1
against. Bond Handicap wagering was
on much the same basis. Despite there
being 10 runners, Buzalong went out at
6 to 4, with Respirator at 7 to 2, and
the others from eights to 50 to 1.
Buzalong’s half-head victory was due
to the skilful riding of Shean, who had
been associated with his Caulfield Cup
success. Since the spring Buzalong had
sported silk in Melbourne five times
without avail, nearest being second in the
Australia Day Cup at Williamstown on
January 30.
Repeating his Caulfield Cup tactics,
Shean had Buzalong in front at the half-
mile, where Respirator was far back in
the field. Unable to get through on
the rails, Bartle took Respirator to the
outside, covering much extra ground.
His mount seemed to head Buzalong, but
Shean extracted a last ounce of effort
from the favorite. Respirator was a
good thing beaten.
Kingdom ran third in the Bond Handi-
cap, but was three lengths behind Res-
pirator, who conceded him 41b. On this
form the St. Leger chance of Respirator
is much to be preferred. Tempest, from
Adelaide, did not measure up at all
well as a classic aspirant.
Aurie’s Star (tens) staged a remark-
able recovery of form by annexing the
Oakleigh Plate. With 121 b. less than he
carried on Saturday the Adelaide
sprinter started at 10 to 9 on for the
William Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley
on January 28, but missed a place.
Perhaps the Valley failure was due to
El Golea disputing control in the early
stages. At Caulfield Dewhurst kept
Aurie’s Star behind Unishak (also
owned in Adelaide) until a furlong from
home, then went to the front and com-
fortably beat Pamelus, with Unishak a
creditable third.
After showing pace to the bend,
Brazandt tired, and was one of the last
to finish. The Maoriland filly, Disdain,
backed to favoritism at 7 to 2, headed
the unplaced division, but didn’t come up
to expectations.
James Scobie won the first division of
the Federal Stakes with Lusson (Mel-
fort-La Morna), a colt he bought in
Sydney on behalf of E. E. D. Clarke for
650 guineas. Lusson (13 to 2) scored so
nicely that he may have to be reckoned
with in the Sires’ Produce Stakes.
More attractive than Lusson’s victory,
however, was that of Zonda (Manitoba-
Mistral) in the second division. She car-
ried nearly a stone more than the im-
post allotted Lusson. Backed from sixes
to half those odds, Historian (Beau Fils-
Parchment) went out a slightly better
favorite than Zonda. He ran fourth,
after getting away badly. Historian is
a stablemate of The Trump.
Sydney visitors had a winning turn
with Frassadale in the Warrein Hurdle.
He prevailed by a head from Imitari,
who, like Historian, is trained by S. W.
Reid. Nice odds (sevens) were on offer
against Frassadale.
Eric Connolly’s Eligible (4-to-l favor-
ite) misfired in the Salisbury Welter
through hanging badly. Race went to
Panax (eights), owned by H. (“Bert”)
Englebert, who used to be in the front
rank of concession bookmakers. Three
seasons ago Panax won the Vaucluse
Handicap and Rous Handicap at Rand-
wick. He was out of commission for a
considerable time during the absence of
his owner overseas.
**, * *
Betting on the Newmarket has been
regularised, as it were, since the owners
decided to scratch Ajax. The champion
is to start in the Futurity Stakes, in
which he has lOst. 61b., and his showing
at Caulfield will determine whether he
will keep his engagement in the King’s
Cup at Flemington on March 4. Fc*r that
race, of course, he has the maximum
weight, 9st. 51b. (the minimum is 7st.),
and has been handicapped to concede
61b. to Manolive, 71b. to Spear Chief,
91b. to Buzalong and Young Idea, 111 b.
to Bourbon and The Trump, 171 b. to
Marauder and Irving, 191 b. to Keeping
Watch and Young Crusader, 231 b. to
John Wilkes and 301 b. to Red Sails. The
last-named is one with a chance.
* * # *
A novel wager laid in a Sydney club:
£lO to £2 on Ajax beating Manolive in
the St. George Stakes by four lengths. It
is to be repeated the first time Ajax meets
Defaulter. That colt, by the way, is now
at Randwick, and the critics pronounce
him a good-looker.
* * * *
When Ajax comes to Sydney for the
autumn racing he is to be accommo-
dated at Frank McGrath’s stables in the
box which he occupied last year and which
has sheltered Amounis and Peter Pan.
The latest tenant was the Westralian
stayer Maikai. Maikai is now among
the regulars at Randwick and looks par-
ticularly well. He has been taken out
of the Australian Cup, his mission being
the Sydney Cup, for which his party
expects him to go one better than did
Apollo last year.
* * * *
Nowadays it isn’t the fashion to run
juveniles in the Oakleigh Plate. Yet
Titan scored as a two-year-old in 1890,
Camoola in 1892, Moorite in 1894 and
Coil two seasons later. Do modern
youngsters lack the requisite speed to
tackle rivals of all ages?
Titan, bred and raced by James White,
was a flier in his first season on the turf.
So, also, was his sister Trieste, a winner
at weight-for-age at two years. Tom
Payten trained Titan for the breeder,
Trieste and Camoola for “J. B. Clark”
and Coil for William Bailey, of Ballarat.
Jack Holt has cause for bitter remem-
brance of the summer of 1939. Avenger,
the 1937 A.J.C. Derby winner, broke
a fetlock when racing and had to be
destroyed. Now Nuffield is suffering
from a recurrence of suspensory ligament
trouble and will be unable to compete
in the remaining classics. The intention
had been that Nuffield should tackle
Ajax in the St. George Stakes and the
Futurity Stakes at Caulfield. S. O.
Wood, V.S., took a serious view of the
colt’s condition after the Melbourne Cup.
It is evident now why Nuffield put up
such a poor fight against Manolive at
Williamstown on February 11.
* * * *
Bookmakers operating at Warwick
Farm on Caulfield events had Brazandt
well under the odds for the Oakleigh
Plate. They opened the Sydney hope at
7 to 2. The Melbourne price was 7 to 1.
But they laid tens —Caulfield odds —•
about Aurie’s Star. Two punters caught
£lOO at tens ; another took £5O to £5.
* * * *
Queensland pastoralist Peter Tait, who
has been nominated for the vacancy on
the A.J.C. committee, would get a strong
punters’ vote, if punters were allowed to
vote. The candidate breeds horses and
races a few, and Aristocrat, carrying the
red jacket and white cap, has been twice
successful lately. The Farm Novice at
Warwick Farm was just an exercise
gallop for the son of The Buzzard-Rose
Mignon. He started at 5 to 2, a good
price considering his Rosehill form, and
outstayed Slanchivar and Sengala. Aris-
tocrat is a good type of three-year-old
who may figure prominently in handi-
caps over a bit of distance. Somehow
sons of The Buzzard seem to be at their
best in the autumn.
A.J.C. committeeman E. J. Watt is
proud of his flying filly Waireka, and well
he might be. He bred the daughter of
Waikare, who could both sprint and stay
and won a Metrop. for E.J.W. Though
she had 9st. 51b. and the outside position
in the Ingleburn Nursery, Waireka was
backed from fours to 6 to 4. And after
the first furlong it was “no race.” Four
lengths ahead at the home turn, the bay
filly beat El Valor by three lengths and
Katanga by another five lengths at the
end of 5% furlongs, traversed in lmin.
7sec., which equalled the course record.
Waireka’s next important race will be
the Champagne Stakes at Randwick.
When Trimmer romped home in a six-
furlongs race at Randwick last month —
he beat Hamurah and Royal Prince in
lmin. lUsec. —the owner-trainer, F. Rus-
sell, thought his big Pentheus three-year-
old was brilliant enough for .the New-
market. Trimmer, however, struck a
snag in June in the Glenfield Handicap ;
the Heroic-Winter filly—also a three-
year-old —gave him a start of lengths
over the last furlong, and beat him by
half a length. Cloudy was third, two
lengths away, and his few backers Col-
lected £l3 ss. 9d. for 10s. Trimmer was
favorite at evens; June, despite the fact
that Darby Munro was in the saddle,
eased to tens. The jockey, Knox, re-
ported that “Trimmer couldn’t manage
the course,” and he is to be taken to Mel-
bourne.
Gouiburn pastoralist Jim Carr selected
Red Sails as a yearling because he was
bred on staying lines. The sire, Pantheon,
gets stayers the best, of course, was
Peter Pap ; the dam, Sweet Land, is by
Magpie, sire of Windbag and many
others who were at home over a journey.
Pitted against moderates, Red Sails was
made favorite, at 9 to 4, for the War-
wick February Handicap. Munro had
him in front at the top of the straight,
and tall Jim’s horse won comfortably
from Feminist, though the filly would
have made it closer if she hadn’t been
boxed up at the turn. Gimme was third.
Red Sails carried 9st., and drops to 7st.
51b. in the Australian Cup. A light weight
for a horse that won the Summer Cup,
and may have taken the Anniversary
Handicap but for his rider making his
run too soon.
Woolman F. W. Hughes and solicitor
W. A. Freeman (who races Heroic Faith)
own Sidcup, and in the Minto Flandi-
cap they picked up a race with him at
last. Because he hadn’t started for
months, and because Dale, who rides
over hurdles, was in the saddle, the Ring
offered twenties, and the price was
snapped up till tens was the quote. Sid-
cup did his job well. He was badly
placed early, and Dale was forced to take
him to the outside. Driven along in the
straight, Sidcup never flinched, and in the
end he beat Tartanus cleverly, Herarde
—the pacemaker, though he had 9st. 61b.
—being a close third. Lord Valentine
ruined the chances of Herarde by keep-
ing him going at his top for seven fur-
longs. Ripley was fourth ; he will do
better.
Red Eagle, a stylish-looking Heroic
colt who is raced by another Queensland
pastoralist, G. F. W. Goodrich, took the
first division of the Maiden, at sixes, in
a manner suggestive of further victories.
He gave Rudyard a big start from the
home turn, but ran away from him in the
last half-furlong. King’s Park, a stable-
mate of Red Eagle, was third.
Dick Wootton produced Zulu Maid,
one of his own breeding, in the second
division, and backed her from 20 to 1
to twelves. The mare turned in a capital
performance. After dwelling at the
barrier she was forced almost into the
Leger at the top of the straight. Straight-
ened up, she beat Pen Name comfort-
ably, with Sigh, who carries the Poitrel
colors, two lengths back third.
* * * *
C. A. Russell, the Sydney trainer, noted
among pressmen for his monologues, was
given something to be eloquent about on
Thursday when the A.J.C. stewards dis-
qualified him for 12 months over the
running of Mohican in the Flying Han-
dicap at Canterbury Park. The owner
(Hambly), the jockey (Mulligan) and the
horse were disqualified for the same
term. The report said, “The stewards
were satisfied that Mohican was not
allowed to run on his merits.” Before
Russell was placed on the carpet, Bian-
coni, Sailmaker and Berani, which he
had trained for Mrs. Dwyer, were handed
over to another trainer; but that had
nothing to do with the running of
Mohican. An appeal has been lodged.
* *. * *
Point was given to a protest against
Silver Ring and Dermid being raced
when they were palpably past their prime
(B. 15/2/’39) on the very day it appeared.
Running in the Victoria Park Handicap
on the Sydney course of that name, Silver
Ring broke down and had to be led bad
to the enclosure by Munro, the jockey.
Silver Ring’s racing career began in
October, 1932, and he had been kept
going every season. It is improbable
that he can ever be patched up again.
The problem of the old and infirm
racehorse should really engage the atten-
tion of clubs like the A.J.C. and the
V.R.C., and their congeners in other
States. In an age where there is so little
demand for old horses’ these faithful
four-footed slaves are too apt to have
an appalling finish. Not a few cases
have come to light where, turned out,
they starved to death. It would be a
good thing if club officials were em-
powered to refuse nominations in bad
cases and to consign the unfortunate
animals to a paddock for the rest of
their days. A small deduction from
stake-money and the like would provide
the wherewithal, and in every State no
doubt there are humanitarian owners
with country interests who would under-
take to see that the poor old beggar thus
superannuated would not lack feed and
water for the rest of his days.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Three-year-olds have
been so conspicuously unsuccessful in
open company this year that it was a
surprise to read in a Great Daily that
a three-year-old, Mac O’Roni, had won
the Hobart Cup. My surprise was such
that I looked up two other Great Dailies
and they had the same tale. It was a
mistake ; Mac O’Roni was bred in the
season that gave the Australian turf Ajax,
Hua, Avenger, El Golea, Spear Chief,
Bourbon, Red Sails and others of less
note. He is a bay gelding by Marcom-
gram-Belle of the Scots. He was un-
placed in the Launceston Cup, won by
Keeping Watch, but at Hobart he made
hacks of three fields, distances being a
mile, a mile and a half and a mile and
a quarter. In the Hobart Cup, for which
he was an outsider (El Bruno was a 5-to-4
favorite), Mac O’Roni took command
when they had gone a mile “and won,
easing up,” by eight lengths, the time
being 2min. 35sec. Second to him (and
second favorite) was Custos, who was
brought over from Maoriland in the
spring of 1936 to win the A.J.C. Der y
Mac O’Roni had 7st. in the Hobart Cup,
and will carry the same weight in the
Australian Cup, having been penalises
71b He is bred to stay, and a horse tnai
strikes form in so spectacular a fashion
after many disappointments cannot oe
disregarded.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR CAULFIELD.
Futurity: Ajax; next, Pamelus.
Alma Stakes: High Caste ; next,
Zonda.
Woodcliff Handicap: Manolive ;
next, Marauder.
Hawksburn Handicap: The
Trump ; next Lolorua.


?
Wm
Of COURSE!
m
-
■
■
0m
m®
mm.
; :¥:'x¥
■
m
m:-y
mm.
■am-
r <xmiXt*
i <
m
i«
a
JisTßXiiw
**ONEy. AUSTIIAII*^
TOOTH & CO. lIMI
K. 163.36
The after-surfing thirst is an impatient one —best
satisfied with a long glass of sparkling lager . . .
K.B. of course . . . the nourishing malt and hops
quickly replace used-up energy and vitality.
TOOI'S KB LAGER
IN BOTTLES AND HALF BOTTLES


a
The Worlds Best
BATTERIES
FOR CARS & TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
Ijou cm Japan Jon
CHAMPION 35
/br ECONOMY
A tankful of fuel carries you (
much farther when your engine
is getting the benefit of strong
hot sparks. Install a set of
new Champions. Enjoy this
saving—and getmore speed,
power and acceleration too.
An Empire product— made
in Windsor, Can. j
1
'M
y.BS» • *
JC
Obtainable at all leading
automotive supply dealers
Champion Spark Plug Company
CHECK AND CLEAN SPARK PLUGS WHEN YOU CHANGE OIL
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the ongma.
Under the Whip
Who wouldn’t be a crack jockey, if he
could? Darby Munro, fined £lOO in
Sydney for being forgetful about his
Federal income-tax return, was shown to
have had, in the 1936-37 year, gross in-
come of £3825 from personal earnings
and £4481 from property, taxable income
being “about £4000.”
* * * *
Punters were smitten hip and thigh
at Moonee Valley on Wednesday. Not
one favorite got home in nine events.
Among those to suffer defeat in mourn-
ful procession were El Reo (5 to 4),
Vanitare (evens), Lord Windburra (11 to
8 on) and Brave Mark (11 to 8).
Mac Devon led off by taking the Trial
Hurdle at 25 to 1. Then came the
juvenile victory of Bev Rose at twenties,
with a tote div. of £lO ss. for ss. Longest
quote of a subsequent winner was eights,
but the Ring kept ahead throughout the
afternoon.
Fred Hoysted saddled up three hot
shots —Lord Windburra, Fancifort and
Buoyancy. The first-named pair were
unplaced; Buoyancy ran a poor third.
Jack Holt, whose training quarters are
adjacent to those of Hoysted, hoped to
land the second division of the Patients’
Welter with Prudence (11 to 4), but this
filly never got near the front.
Prudence (Constant Son-Margarethal)
belongs to Mrs. G. M. Robinson, whose
male relatives, either singly or in con-
junction with William Clark, have raced
numerous great gallopers. Dam of Pru-
dence is by Valais, and comes from the
same family as Eusebius and Brattle.
Later on perhaps Prudence may do some-
thing worthy of her lineage.
Last race on the card went to Saul
(David-Miss Quex), owned by a daugh-
ter-in-law of Otway Falkiner, and carry-
ing the “white, green shamrocks and cap”
that were the registered colors of the late
Norman Falkiner. Saul led all the way
over \\ miles. He is only three years
old, and shows much promise. Bill
Burke did exceptionally well over hurdles
with David Quex, a brother to Saul. He
offered a handsome sum for Saul, but it
was promptly refused.
* * * *
Jack Fiyer, who prepared Wotan for
a Melbourne Cup triumph, is confined to
his bed at Caulfield as the result of being
kicked in the abdomen by Dannevirke
last week. Fryer’s big team of more than
20 horses is temporarily under the care
of W. Hawthorne.
M.Q. and Rafferty
The Crowd Hoots
The best bit of hooting heard for years,
denouncing Joe Wallis’s decision in favor
of Jackie Wilson over Joe Hall at Sydney
Stadium, was more an exhibition of the
unusual interest the engagement aroused
than a display of sound judgment.
Giving Hall Wilson scaled Bst.
131 b., and got into the ring labelled
across his back Featherweight Champion
of the World. His showing, though he
won, suggested that the world stock of
fedders is now nothing to skite about.
He’s of spiderish build, not overstrong ; a
busy little customer, full of steam and
flurry, but nothing like the plug of dyna-
mite that reports of his defeat of Micky
Miller had implied. He won more by
persistently carrying the fight to Hall
than by doing anything remarkable when
he got there. He kept pegging away, try-
ing to induce the local lad into error,
which folly—or anything whatever re-
sembling a risk —Hall avoided as deter-
minedly as a Test batsman.
Hall fought only in spasms. For the
first minute of pretty well every round he
did nothing more than look fierce ; then
he’d suddenly let loose for a five seconds’
burst of heavy punching. In these mixing
moments he had far the better of it, and
the only real blows of the contest were
to his credit. Though few and far apart,
“ That'll teach you to Wait till a man crosses."
one or two of these were clinkers. One
right cross turned Wilson half-around in
his track; another shook the World
Champ, and made him smother. Had
Hall fought confidently on these lines,
he’d probably have won by miles; but
he may have suffered damage in doing so,
and he seemed very anxious to keep clear
of that. Even over the last few rounds,
when the little darkie was slow and tired,
Hall continued to treat him with the
greatest respect.
It was an interesting rather than a fierce
scrap, its main excitement a bit of
temper in the middle stages, and neither
suffered the slightest damage. Mr.
Wallis’s decision couldn’t have been bet-
tered by Solomon.
In a pretty good lot of prelims, to the
Wilson-Hall encounter one of special in-
terest was that in which Max Miller
figured. Max, a smaller brother of the
Australian champion, was having his first
Sydney Stadium fight, and made a capi-
tal beginning, bowling the opposition
over with a snappy right inside a minute.
Next night Max continued the good work
at Leichhardt, where he terminated a
six-rounder in the third.
Hinton the Winner
Sadly it must be acknowledged that
Jack Stewart, of Melbourne, though
labelled Australian flyweight champion,
is no world-beater. This was demon-
strated by Rollo Hinton, of Sydney, at
West Melbourne on Wednesday night.
Hinton has never been regarded as any-
thing more than a busy little preliminary
boxer; nevertheless he outpointed
Stewart in almost every round of 15.
They were two-minute rounds, and, using
his experience, weight (he was 211 b.
heavier) and reach to advantage, Hinton
rarely allowed Stewart to get set. His
left hand was plied briskly, and he beat
Stewart to the punch. In the twelfth, with
a short right to the jaw he sent Stewart
to the canvas for “four.” Stewart was
groggy when he got up, but Hinton
could not put him out.
American “Featherweights”
They must be a well-nourished breed.
Armstrong stepped out of the ranks to
fight welterweights; and, by strict reck-
oning, he was a welterweight himself
when he met Ross. And Irving Eldridge,
who aspires to the championship left
vacant by Armstrong, scaled 9st. 71b.
when he shaped up to Claude Varner at
the West Melbourne Stadium on Satur-
day night. Varner owned to 9st. 4Hb.!
Claude could scarcely put a glove on
Eldridge, but gameness and toughness
enabled him to see the 12-rounder out.
Value for Two Bob
Stoush couldn’t be had at cheaper
rates than the “two-bob ringside” which
was the highest asked at Sydney Arena
last week. For that, patrons were
treated to 11 four-round scraps, or they
would have been four-rounders if it
hadn’t been the clear design of all dis-
putants to end ’em in four seconds. Three
of the 11 didn’t go a round, three didn’t
go two rounds, three didn’t go three
rounds ; only two went the distance, and
both of them were clinking fights.
The tourney, which is to continue
weekly, has the object of discovering new
talent —and heaven and the shade of
Larry know it’s a crying need. The week
that saw this optimistic search begin
also saw two more Australians go under
to the invaders —in addition to Joe Hall
being beaten at the Rushcutter Bay
address through reluctance to fight, a
Victorian named Johnny Shields gave a
lamentable display, to be trounced inside
half a dozen rounds by Kingfish Dixon
out at Leichhardt.
Well run, with sensible eliminations
and careful matching, these novice nights
at the Arena might eventually produce
something to help stop the rot. The
opening night’s scraps were well con-
ducted by ref. Les Pearson, than whom
there is no better third man about except
Joe Wallis. Pearson saw that the bout
stopped when any boy had had enough;


I
Of mm Tm
fnoud of ftp
new m—(hoi's
UtltiL Yin USikJtL
0 wWw HVWWP
C.O.X Ptus!
CORe£>PETROLS
There is a grade to suit your ear
COR
pgR
sU
STft* 1
m
Super Plus
Super Plus is the only
full Ethyl petrol that
also contains benzol —
and offers you excep-
tionally high anti-
knock quality together
with amazing mileage.
Plus Benzol
Petrol-benzol blends
are sold in other mar-
kets at premium rates
but Plus Benzol is
made available in
Australia at the stan -
dard grade price .
C156.275P
LOOK FOR THE RED, WHITE & BLUE PUMPS
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL REFINERIES LTD. (Commonwealth Government and Anglo-Iranian Oil Co. Ltd.)
Incorporated in Victoria with Branches at MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, BRISBANE, PERTH, HOBART
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
",
.
LIOXRL BIBBY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Ballistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent oi his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
sf
No. IA—THE MAINE DE LUXE
RIFLE, 22-cal., bolt action, 24in.
round barrel, pistol grip, bead
front and adjustable rear sight.
Weight, about 4ilb. f%~ /tel
Price fl/lb/-
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 3/6.
No. 12—WINCHESTER SINGLE
SHOT RIFLE, MODEL 67, for 22
short, long, or long-rifle rimfire
cartridges; 27in. round steel
barrel, one-piece pistol grip stock,
safety bolt Mauser type, ladder
rear and metal bead front
sight; weight, /I n /
about 4Jib. fcZ/IU/-
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action,
.22 calibre, rim fire, 2 7in.
round blued steel barrel;
ladder rear sight'. /I /
weight, 411 b.;
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 32 BROWNING
“TROMBONE” H’LESS
REPEATING RIFLE,
22in. round steel barrel;
handles 22 short, long
or long-rifle cartridges;
screw rear and open
front sights; length
overall 39 in. rc /in /a
weight, 4i-lb.
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No . 3 —HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G., top lever bar
action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke,
rebounding locks, crossbolt, snap fore-
end, half-pistol grip, walnut
Carriage Paid.
No. 29 —F O X STERLINGWORTH
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, left full choke, right
modified, walnut stock, pistol grip, cham-
bered for 2 fin. cartridges. - /- /
Weight, about 7flb. Xll/10/“
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip, 1/11/
nitro proof; weight, about 71b. S'* * / ■*■ ■*• / “
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 A—FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
similar to. No. 14, but very high-grade,
with ejector; weight, 1?1 o/i<s /
about 71b XL6/16/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
at the same time he let ’em go on so
long as both had real fight in ’em. Thus,
though nobody was badly damaged in
any scrap, the best encounter of the night
was also the goriest—a splendid display
of gameness. The parties to it—Les
Travers and Ray Bronson split the
fiver awarded on the vote of scribes for
the best scrap.
It was a nice friendly sort of an even-
ing. The Arena, now that it has a roof
on it, is an enormous place—big enough
for a world championship.' The crowd
round the ring therefore looked micro-
scopic, yet it was a solid attendance. The
majority of the scrappers were genuine
novices, though all had had some school-
ing in the art. Mostly working blokes,
a surprising number of them sported
names usually considered a bit ciss.
There was at least one each of Cecil,
Archie, Christopher, Ronald, Raymond,
Percy and Leslie, balanced by a brace
of Bills, a Ted and a couple of Jacks.
As stated, the Leslie and the Raymond
put up the best fight of the night; the
next best was put up by the Cecil and
the Archie, respectively surnamed Carroll
and Jackson. There was also another
Carroll, baptised George, who was one
of the best individual performers. Two
others above the general run were one
of the Bills (Cook ; an Bst. 1 lib. boy),
and one of the Ronalds (Davis; a lOst.
4ib. lad).
Miscellaneous.
Hopman, Bromwich, Quist and Craw-
ford are to leave for the U.S.A. on May
22 in quest of the Davis Cup. Hopman
is to be captain and manager. Craw-
ford’s admirers protest that he should be
captain, and detractors argue that he
shouldn’t be in the team at all. That is
nonsense; he is only 31, and if he can
get his weight down substantially he
might be a match for Bromwich. As it
is, he is too good for McGrath, Gilchrist
or Long. As before, wives are banned.
They are not to be in any part of the
U.S.A. while their lords are there. What
the tennis heads could do if one or both
of the ladies cast up in the forbidden
country has not been explained. Prob-
ably it hasn’t been considered.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: South Australia’s L.T.A.
announces a profit of £250 on its cham-
pionships, held in the New Year week
this time ; last year brought a loss of
£5O. Dr. “Gar” Hone, eldest of a band
of athletic brothers (three tennis-players
and one inter-State batsman ; and their
father was a tennis champion 40 years
ago), has been authorised to try his luck
at Wimbledon in July. He is almost a
veteran now, and has played for S.A.
many times.
* * * *
In Melbourne on Saturday Ted Best,
who beat Brian Dunn in “the 220” in
Sydney, was beaten by the younger
sprinter in a desperate race for the 100
yards championship of Victoria at Olym-
pic Park. There was so little in it that
Dunn gasped out congratulations to the
Victorian —they are fast friends —but the
judges decided unanimously that Dunn
had won by inches. The time was
9 4-ssec., but there was a helping wind.
Though off-color, Backhouse won the
State mile championship in 4min. 22sec.,
and Pardon (N.S.W.) cut the Australian
record to 144 ft. lin. in winning the
hammer throw.
* * * *
After hearing a delegate testify that
“Nakama has proved himself a perfect
gentleman and a constant trier,” and sug-
gest “a farewell dinner and presentation
of a suitable trophy,” the N.S.W. Ama-
teur Swimming Association cordially
agreed to everything. But about the
same time the Australian Swimming
Union declined, because “of the inter-
national situation,” to invite those other
Japanese Arai and Amana to visit Aus-
tralia next summer. If “the international
situation” is what the union thinks it is
(millions are incredulous), such an invi-
tation would be a way of ameliorating
it, and of reassuring people who believe
the fantasies of Madame Two-Blues and
“Reynolds’s News.” As in the Nakama
case, the N.S.W. body may go ahead
without reference to the union.
* * * *
“B.”: Three Sydney boats were taken
to Auckland (M.L.) for a series of races
billed as for the Eighteen-footer Cham-
pionship of the Solar System —no, the
World. For one, Taree, that exalted title
was already claimed. Taree won the last
heat, and, with a second and a fourth in
the previous races, was all set to collect
the laurels. Unhappily, there was a pro-
test, and a Maoriland boat, Manu, was
declared champion of the Solar System,
with which is incorporated the World.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A fiction-writer would hardly
dare to invent a cricket finish such as
occurred at Mt. Gambier (S.A.). The last
man in, and two runs are needed. A
hit for two ; but is it all over? No ; the
umpire has called “one short.” Bats-
man smites next ball too hard for bowler
to hold ; but it falls from his hand on
the stumps, and the backing-up man
is run out. Result, a tie.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: Kreisler is said to have
given one of the finest performances of
his career when he borrowed an ordinary
fiddle at a concert, his own Strad. having
been mislaid. A. H. Toakley, a Mel-
bourne policeman, performed a similar
feat the other day for the Police Club
when he scored a 10-shot possible, fol-
lowing a few days later with another
10-shot possible. His weapon was a
second-hand rifle which he bought in a
suburb, sawing down to the regulation
length the old-fashioned long barrel.


Twice. Daily-2'30~6
wmwmm.m
“YOUNG BLOODS OF VARIETY/’
featuring
BUSTER WEST & LUCILLE PAGE
And 10 Other Acts.
“THE BIG EUN SHOW OF 1939.”
Ada Brown, Radcliffe and Rodgers.
12 Star Variety A<jts.
Musical.
The Celebrated Jazzmaster New
Chromatic Mouth Organ.
NO need to fake your tUMS.
half-notes. 10/6 posted. Als DO sted.
Auto Valve Mouth Organ, 40 reed, 6/- po
Agents: GILLAM’S MUSIC STORb,
Burke Road, Camberwell. Vic.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Typhoon.”
Charles Bickford, Preston Foster, Barton
Mac Lane.
Ads. said something about this item at
Sydney Lyceum and Capitol being so
costly that it had to be shown at two
theatres. Conclusion then is that there’s
been a shocking waste of dahlars some-
where or other.
Naturally present viewer expected a
typhoon somewhere in the proceedings,
and settled down to wait for it. Saw
wireless operator Charles Bickford catch
ship by skin of his teeth and sail via
Panama for Liverpool, disobey captain’s
orders by going ashore on the scoot with
Mr. Foster, mixed up in pub stoush and
catch ship by narrow margin again.
No typhoon that trip, but film is still
young.
Witnessed Mr. Bickford’s ship sailing
for Gahd’s Own again, also Mr. Foster’s
ship running foul of iceberg and Mr.
Foster drowning because rascally Cap-
tain Mac Lane wouldn’t hold up lifeboat
while Mr. Foster sent out SOS.
Still no typhoon, though relations be-
tween Mr. Bickford and Captain Mac-
Lane a little stormy.
Saw Mr. Bickford arrive home and
tick off young brother for becoming wire-
less operator instead of horse doctor.
Saw him also very snooty regarding
brother’s prospective wife —a bewchus
nurse —all because of a misunderstanding
which could have been cleared up with
a couple of words if anyone had thought
to say them. But Mr. Bickford sailed
away very hot under the collar, and then
decided to disembark at Honolulu and
return home to an office job.
Three voyages without
typhoon, though it can’t be long
now.
Anyw'ay Mr. Bickford
shipped aboard posh passenger
liner and found nurse also
thereon. Thought two snooty
people in the same boat might
cause a change in the weather,
but no luck. Ship reached
Amurrica without mishap, and
Mr. Bickford promptly out on
the scoot again and nurse off to
marry young brother.
Becoming a little fed up wait-
ing for this typhoon, but run-
ning-time is nearly up, so it
can’t be far off now.
Saw Mr. Bickford recovering
from hangover to learn that brother ano
nurse were sailing aboard posh liner to be
married thereon. Saw him supplant liner’s
wireless operator to learn that Captain
Mac Lane was boss of the ship —though
why, after running a tramp steamer into
an iceberg, he should be given command
of large passenger liner was not explained.
Typhoon must be a moral this trip,
since rascally captain, hahnest operator,
young brother and bewchus nurse are all
aboard together.
Bit of dirty weather blew up, a few
waves that would earn appraising glances
from Manly surfers washed over the ship,
and nurse, receiving instructions by wire-
less, had to operate on young brother for
appendicitis—though why a large posh
passenger liner should be without a
doctor was also unexplained.
Still no typhoon!
Waited with fading hopes until fade-
out and saw Mr. Bickford, brother and
bewchus nurse all reconciled in posh
night club.
Wandered out trying to think of prizes
for a “Find the Typhoon” competition.
“Keep Smiling.”
Grade Fields.
Though there are some excellent bits
of pure unadulterated Gracie in this
current offering at Sydney Mayfair, the
film as a whole adds up to a pretty
poor stretch of entertainment.
It has one major fault of which Eng-
lish filmsmiths should not be guilty now
that they’re turning out films in the
class of “Pygmalion.” Judged by this
offering they can still fall down on
managing a smooth blend of story and
showmanship. The story is without vigor
or freshness, and halts jarringly every
now and again to let Gracie do a turn.
Result of these too-obvious stops is
not only a very disjointed narrative;
they also give the bad impression that
the producers are trying to pad out
three or four music-hall turns from
Gracie to a full-length film. The film
would probably have been better show-
manship and more satisfactory enter-
“You should go to the films more often, Ponsonby, and study Spencer
Tracy's technique."
tainment if it had been pruned down to
the bare 15 minutes of Gracie.
The uneven effect is accentuated by
the fact that the trite musicomedy tale —
of a down-and-out vaudeville troupe,
their search for an engagement and the
attempts of a nasty piece of work to
spoke their wheel —is a framework for
some excellent comedy as well as for
some very dull and boring proceedings.
At low ebb there is a tongue-tied
heart affair between Mary Maguire and
famous pianist who leaves his concert
platform to join the vaudeville troupe.
Miss Maguire doesn’t let Australia down
as far as looks are concerned, but on
this showing as an actress she’d make
a good mannequin. When the tide is
right out there are the impossible plot-
tings of three incredible villains to pre-
vent the troupe from leasing some
pavilion or other and to queer their
pitch in general.
Of better moments there is the tyke,
Mr. Smith, turning in his customary nice
performance, while one scene with
Gracie investigating the works of a cow
and being very much amazed thereat
and nicely framed by the udder is capi-
tal. It is second only to the same lass’s
actions while trying to hide a dog under
her cape and pass muster at a singing
test.
“Thank Evans.”
Max Miller.
Notwithstanding a total lack of sub-
stance or consequence, this stretch of
nonsense at Sydney Mayfair makes very
bright entertainment, Wholly through the
efforts of Mr. Miller.
Mr. Miller is not an actor —nor is any-
one else in the film, for that matter. His
forte is talking, talking, talking and talk-
ing. From the minute the film gets into
its stride until the finish Mr. Miller de-
livers his rapid patter without rest. He
could talk Australia’s seven Parliaments
into silence ; he might even be capable of
talking them into lowering their salaries.
His interminable chatter at first seems
likely to be boring or even irritating, but
by its speed and variety it gradually de-
mands attention, and finally dominates
film, cast, audience and everything as Mr.
Miller subordinates them all to his comedy
of words. Much of it is clever wise-
cracking and a good deal is lost in laugh-
ter. Mr. Miller doesn’t need a foil; he
plays on his own words —almost talks to
himself, in fact —but does it all so rapidly
and naturally that, like George Wallace,
he seems to think up most of his chatter
as he goes.
What thread of a story there is deals
vaguely with a stolen watch, a maltreated
racehorse, a crooked trainer, a police ser-
geant and sundry other persons. Mr.
Miller is a racing tout, talks his way out
of a dozen scrapes, talks his way into
gaol and out of it, talks his offsider out
of conviction for theft and finally talks
the hoss to victory.
A very entertaining film about nothing
in particular.
“The Ware Case.”
Clive Brook.
A far better story than most films are
made on, excellent acting by Brook and
very good directing are the strong points
of this English offering at Sydney State.
The story is presented in the switch-
back manner; opening with a P o^ e "
court scene, then going back to the be-
ginning of things leading up to it. Brook,
as the present representative of an old
English family, is troubled with creditors
who threaten to bankrupt him ; promises
to amend his style of living, and is given
a few months to meet his debts.
Instead, he continues in the same free-
and-easy style, despite the efforts of his
wife, backed up by a barrister friend of
the family. Wife’s brother —a froglike
and generally nasty bit of work —reads
the worst into the, till then, innocent
triangle. He openly suggests an affair
between his sister and the barrister
friend. With Brook away at a Continen-
tal resort, the suggestion releases what
has hitherto been kept down; there is
an open declaration of their feeling for
each other, but wife’s loyalty to husband
prevents it from going any further.
Then, one night, the nasty piece of
work, who has been pressed by Brook
to stay overnight, flops into a lily-pond
on the estate and is drowned. Since an
unholy yell shook the welkin immediately
before, dirty work at the crossroads is
pretty evident. His sister inheriting his
tidy fortune, it means that Brook’s finan-
cial troubles can all be straightened out.
But the cops put two and two together,
and presently Brook is facing the Beak
on a murder charge. The development of
the story from here on is unexpected,
with a number of twists in it, including
a highly melodramatic one right at the
end.
Brook plays the man of straw admir-
ably. He is shallow but plausible, get-
ting around people who disbelieve every
word he had said as soon as he’s out of
their sight again. He plays the part so
nicely that the audience is taken in as
well, and even when the whole story has
been told many will probably
be left with doubt as to whether
he did or didn’t commit the
murder, despite his melodramatic
declaration and the weight of evi-
dence. As Brook represents the
character he might be either
'completely shallow and worth-
less, or one who might be cap-
able of rising to an occasion.
Good support acting helps to
make it entertainment well above
the general run of support films,
and it’s further helped by a dash
of humor and by the charm of
the setting, in and about a home
of the English gentry.
“Climbing High.”
Jessie Matthews, Michael Redgrave,
With this and “The Ware Case” the
Sydney State bill is all-English, and quite
good entertainment, without being any-
thing to set the harbor on fire.
The minimum use is made of Jessie’s
hoofing and warbling talent: mostly it’s
straight light comedy romance, breaking
into farce every now and then to induce
the loud ha-ha.
One of the farce scenes is the best the
film offers, and proves that the hurled
pie can still fetch a laugh. The setting
for it is the photographing department
of an advertising concern, with a wind-
machine employed for blowing the posing
young lady’s skirts high enough to make
an effective poster for beauteous sheer-
stockings, to say nothing of the pins.
Somebody presses the wind-machine s
starter to full-on, and before the ensuing
tornado dies down the place is blown
pretty well inside out; staff and posing
models are hurled into odd corners, a
page boy is blown high against a wall
and held there by the force of the
breeze ; pies and other movables fly about
with disastrous results not only to the
inmates but to spectators and police
gathered outside the open windows.
While it lasts it’s an uproarious bit.
For the rest the film mainly has to do
with the building up of a love affair be-
tween Jessie and Michael, the gent, hav-
ing to dispose of another fiancee on the
way. The snake-in-the-grass part of the
other fiancee is capitally played by Aus-
tralian girl Margaret Vyner.
Though the film has no villain, the
quaint English-comedy convention ot
always having a foreigner as the dirty
dog is maintained by making ff* e mo h s
unpleasant character a Swiss and tn
most vulgar a Canadian. It also main-
tains the English practice of getting tun
out of human misfortune by representin r


AUSTKA lr I A N
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3dL
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 15 of 1939.
BETWEEN WILLIAM HENRY POOLE Peti-
tioner
And LORNA THERESA POOLE Re-
spondent.
And (SCOTTY) COLLINS Co-respondent.
TO LORNA THERESA POOLE and
(SCOTTY) COLLINS late of Victoria
Street North Melbourne Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM HENRY
POOLE has commenced a suit against you the
abovenamed respondent and co-respondent and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on
the ground of adultery AND TAKE NOTICE
that each of you the respondent and co-
respondent are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of
this Court on or before the Sixth day of May
1939 and in the event of your not so doing
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge. <
DATED this Twentieth day of February,
1939.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
C. JOLLIE SMITH, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, 185 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
lunacy as comic. Labelling the un-
pleasant gent. Swiss should be a warning
to the League of Nations Union that
Genevan stocks must now be perilously
low. The gent, looks and talks like an
Italian, and a year ago that’s what he
would have been. They do this sort of
thing with exquisite care in English films.
They seldom definitely label the villain
with his nationality, but it’s an almost in-
variable rule that he must be a foreigner,
and the country he belongs to is generally
pretty clearly implied.
Soviet shares must also be at a slight
discount just now, since this film pokes
a little fun at both the Communist idea
and the clenched-fist salute, the first time
present viewer had seen either taken
lightly in a film.
Jessie, as usual, is very bright and
breezy, though she’s had far better oppor-
tunities.
“Mr. Moto Takes a Vacation ”
Veter Lorre.
Support at Sydney Century and
guaranteed to satisfy those who follow
Mr. Moto’s intrepid sleuthing.
The unearthing of Sheba’s crown starts
present pother, and thereafter there are
at least half a dozen different organisa-
tions intent on lifting it and disposing of
Mr. Moto at the same time. He blandly
weathers all attempts to upset his well-
being and unerringly casts aside lesser
prey to fasten on Amurrica’s leading jool
thief.
Good of its kind, with nice work from
Lorre and Joseph Schildkraut, though
it’s a pity to see either of them wasting
his ability on second-rate sleuthery.
“March of Time”
Latest of these films —showing at Syd-
ney Plaza and Embassy—looks like a
good opportunity allowed to be burnt up
by anger. Best of it is in the scenes
depicting what Jewish settlers are doing
in Palestine.
Purporting to deal with the refugee
question —the major phenomenon of
present times —it falls down badly on the
job. There is a slight reference to Rus-
sian refugees in China, but very shortly
the film is dealing with the only sort of
refugees in whom its makers display any
real interest —the Jews.
Even in regard to them it falls down in
various ways. These “March of Time”
films —as must be patent to any observer
—are made by fitting together all manner
of odds and ends that will serve the pur-
pose of building up a propaganda case.
In this instance, pictures of Jewish
refugees crowded into rooms, eating
what looks like burgoo, entering countries
that have adopted them, and so forth, are
mingled with pictures purporting to
represent raids on Jewish shops and
homes and destruction of Jewish prop-
erty in Germany.
The authenticity of these last must be
doubted, since nothing is easier than
faking such scenes by having them acted
anywhere, but they can pass as a fair
enough statement —in fact, something of
an understatement, by all accounts.
Similarly a glimpse of refugees stagger-
ing on foot towards the Swiss frontier,
and on crossing it being welcomed like
long-lost cousins by the happy Swiss folk,
might be doubted also, but it’s of little
importance.
In other depictions the filmsmiths are
utterly unscrupulous. Drawings are
worked in to fill gaps, so are photo-
graphs of twisted knots of barbed-wire
and the like. A few shots —such as one
of Hitler —are authentic enough in them-
selves, but are rendered false by being
presented in immediate juxtaposition to
matters with which they have no direct
relationship. Otherwise the scenes could
have been prepared and photographed in
any studio or its backyard.
While these items are being strung to-
gether to make out a case which, on such
evidence, would be thrown out of the
poorest sort of court, a commentator
accompanies the screening with savage
ex-parte statements, without proof or
corroboration.
The effect of all this is to damage the
case very badly. The flash blatancy and
venom of the commentator alone would
almost certainly be heartily resented by
people who dislike having opinions
rammed down their throats. To have
such arrogant propaganda forced in as
an inescapable part of an entertainment
bill seems to make it all the worse.
Had the film been a balanced appeal
to sympathy it would have been incom-
parably more effective, especially if it
had been as concerned with'the close-on
500,000 refugees from Russia and hun-
dreds of thousands from Armenia and
elsewhere as it is with German Jews. As
it is, the very arrogance of its statements
and the unscrupulous use of theatrical
props, to build up a case may leave many
feeling that such a display of gall must
surely be one-sided, and asking is there
no case for the defence.
This latter doubt seems to be strength-
ened through the film going on to show
all the other European countries from
which Jewish refugees may shortly be
fleeing. Few will be likely to accept the
film’s statement that all these countries
want to be rid of their Jews only because
of one man —Hitler.
Before it’s through the film has de-
generated into bitter anti-Hitler propa-
ganda. Those it may have the power to
move will be moved not towards sym-
pathy for the Jews but towards hating
Germany’s leader. In Australia, at any
rate, such hate-seeking propaganda is not
likely to do the Jewish cause good and
may do it harm.
“His Exciting Night" at Sydney
Lyceum and Capitol, has Charlie
Ruggles as a harassed but capable clerk
in a large business. His pending mar-
riage threatens the firm with some finan-
cial loss, and boss sets out to kibosh
the wedding. Ensues a series of plots
and counter-plots, with Ruggles being
framed and blamed for everything of
which he is altogether innocent. Ruggles
quite fair when opportunities permit, but
the filmsmiths have treated him poorly
with a shocking cast and very lean
dialogue.
“Old Iron," at Sydney Victory, deals
with tyrannical old lud who, with his
son, controls a shipping line by only a
couple of shares. Son threatens family’s
supremacy in the business by marrying
into the rival camp. Keen character
sketch by Tom Walls and pleasant Eng-
lish voices throughout, but film is too
sentimental in places and melodramatic
in others.
“Little Miss Roughneck doing the
rounds, is the proverbial tale of small
cheild whose parents were killed in circus
act, leaving her all alone in the crool
world. Howsomever, she manages to
battle along, arrange a couple of heart
affairs for her seniors and finally ride a
racehorse to victory for several thou-
sands of dahlars. Edith Fellowes the
cheild, and she merits something better.
“A Waltz Dream ”
After an extended leave of absence “A
Waltz Dream” reappeared at Melbourne
His Majesty’s on Saturday night, and a
vast house received the hoary story with
every symptom of delight.
Musically, the score is not to be de-
spised, and its principal melody is very
nice indeed. Recognising this, Oscar
Strauss used it for all it was worth, and
on Saturday night it was handed round
from males to females, from soloists to
choruses and from leads to supernumer-
aries, and sometimes the supernumer-
aries and the chorus treated it with more
respect than the leads.
Marie Bremner played the pathetic
role of the princess deserted by her con-
sort on their wedding night, and, it
being one of the fixed conventions of
musical comedy that the singing must
not be too good, the fact that she didn’t
rise to any very dizzy vocal heights didn’t
detract from the public pleasure at the
show.
Strauss has attained to the distinction
of Gilbert and Sullivan apparently, and
most of the songs were accorded an en-
core, sometimes without sufficient
reason; but the avaricious in the audi-
ence were out for their money’s worth.
Jack Arthur gave to the husband with
the wandering eye the chest of a prize-
fighter and the facial insignia of a wild
boy of the West. His voice, beginning
badly, developed in company with that
of Melton Moore as Monte, who physi-
cally fulfilled the demands of romantic
operetta better than his chief. One of
their duets in front of a drop scene had
an earthquake obbligato backstage which
must have been recorded on the Obser-
vatory seismograph.
However, the airy trifle went with the
full vigor of the Rolls swing, and the
American Fred Harper and the Austra-
lian Don Nicol, as Uncle Lothar and
the Grand Duke Joachim respectively,
were consistently funny, somebody hav-
ing provided them with comic stuff as up-
to-date as an air-conditioning plant.
Nicol was particularly good.
Hollywood Hotel Revue .
At Melbourne Princess the Hollywood
Revuers have broached a fresh barrel
of their heady brew.
Noise is, after semi-nudity, the prin-
cipal ingredient of the show, and there
is no lack of it in the present bill. The
Eight Apple Dancers are noisy, the
orchestra is noisy and comedians Bobbie
Morris and Marty May contribute their
quota to the din.
Nevertheless, an extraordinary amount
of skill is included in the row. If the
Eight Apple Dancers are not the world’s
fastest dancers they ought to be, and
if there are more amazing acrobats than
Park and Clifford the age of miracles
has come again.
According to Modernity .
The Bulletin man went along to the
Home and Building Exhibition Building.
Melbourne, last week. Passing through
the avenue of classic statuary which
adorns the garden in front, he entered
the vast mid-Victorian fane and was
assaulted first by a programme girl who
looked as if she had stepped out of the
Hollywood Hotel Revue, and then by the
full blast of modernity.
Everything was according to modernity.
The Bulletin man would have liked, if
he could, to dismiss some of the modern-
ity in favor of something more restful,
mellow and benign, but it is as impossible
to dismiss modernity as the weather, and
it is equally impossible to escape its thrill.
Whether or not you think it is art or
beauty or anything at all, you can’t escape
the thrill of a modern picture, because
it is a symbol for modernity, and whether
we like it or not we live in 1939, not in
1439. A home which looks as if it had
been built by a giant impersonal pair of
compasses, an impersonal set-square and
an impersonal rule is intensely modern,
and its thrill cannot be denied.
Everything in the present show looked
as if it had been built by machines for
machines with machines. If the Bulle-
tin man had stumbled on a craftsman —
a potter, a carver or a carpenter—mak-
ing something with his hands he would
have been as surprised as he was once
when he came on a cockroach in a liner,
which vessel was a triumph of marine
architecture and the last word in
modernity.
A young married couple were inspect-
ing a home which looked as if it had been
turned out of a rolling mill and was
equipped entirely with stainless steel.
Another couple were bargaining with a
salesman for a portable air-conditioning
plant which makes you cool or warm re-
gardless of prevailing temperatures. It
can be plugged into the electric light.
Almost everything, The Bulletin was
told, can be plugged into the electric
light.
A booth occupied by the Truby King
League and the Tweedle Hospital for
Babies looked completely out of place in
this temple of modernity; in fact, almost
blasphemously irrelevant. But, as almost
everything can be plugged into the elec-
tric light, perhaps babies are not alto-
gether out of place in a home equipped
according to modernity.
Students 9 Art Show.
The State Technical School, which
lives in the old gaol at Darlinghurst,
Sydney, has a variety of well-attended
art classes, and the annual show by stu-
dents of these classes at the Education
Department’s galleries is, as usual, in-
teresting.
The decorative design section is strong.
Principal exhibitors are Natalie Weber,
who uses as material Ethiopians, Red
Indians, a tropical jungle and Sydney’s
Parsley Bay, and Mollie Paxton, who
runs to Tudor period costume pieces,
ancient Egyptians and the Valkyries.
Coloring is suave, drawing crisp and com-
position attractive in all these offerings.
Ruth Schomberg shows promise in a
couple of lino-cuts; there are force and
individuality in a decorative landscape
by Jean Savage, and worth-while designs
are also put forward by Betty Cock, Mar-
jorie Howe, John Edwards and Rose-
mary Heron.
The poster section is not quite so well
populated as in previous years. H. Mc-
Ardell shows a street scene and a door-
way very cleverly done in the style of
a certain English designer of railway
posters. Betty Homes uses frolicking
lambkins effectively in a boost for wool,
and Australian sunshine blazes in a har-
vesting scene by Margaret Warwick.
In the oils section, which comprises
life-painting from the nude, still-life, por-
traiture and mural designs, the general
average is high. Ella Robinson, Doug-
las Watson and Lorna Nimmo submit
portraits of merit. James B. Swan’s big
murals, “Circus” and “Landing of Cap-
tain Phillip,” are well thought out, and
Kathleen Farrell exhibits a deft touch in
a costume study.
In water-colors there are very promis-
ing efforts by Monot Roberts, whose
“Old Cottage” has vigor and charm;
Sheila Ellison, who has color-sense;
Rosemary Heron, who paints buildings
attractively, and Violet East, whose still-
life has style.
Students of pen-drawing include Betty
Homes, who has a dainty touch with
fashion sketches; George Marr Fann,
who experiments successfully with a little-
used technique, and Margaret West, who
commands a firm, flowing line.
Pencil portraits by Douglas Wilson and
Loy M. Lee and a scratchboard head by
Ella Robinson catch the eye. Ruth Main,
Natalie Weber and Mollie Paxton show'
attractive tapestry designs, and Lois Mc-
Cullock deserves a mention for a
gorgeous panel of Australian birds in
felt applique.
Sculpture isn’t outstanding this year.
Yvonne Le Gros shows a graceful panel
in bas-relief. Annis Lieuble has a well-
modelled child’s head and a couple of
fantastic female figures on show. Other
exhibits are of an experimental sort.
A mass of applied art, in textile and
other designs, is mostly anonymous.
Some of these efforts are very pleasing.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
■
<x««;
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids. Qualified matron and staff.
Every possible comfort and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surroundings and
delightful atmosphere. Terms on application. Telephone, 123 Springwood; or
particulars from Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 84771.
BRANDAIJER3
0^
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitation*.
C. BKANDAOKB * CO, Ltd, BIRIUSaHAM^EI^
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Last Wednesday golden beams of
light from the high windows of St. Mary’s
fell on black and purple drapings which
the cathedral wore in mourning for Pius
XI. The sadness of these colors outlined
every other of the many arches above the
way from the great doors overlooking
Phillip Park to the altar. In their violet
and black the pews reminded the kneelers
in them of the solemnity of the occasion.
Violet and black were the long streamers
looped back above the catafalque. This
stood at the foot of the altar steps out-
side the sanctuary. On its pall of black
velvet, heavy with golden fringe, fell the
soft glow of 12 gold candles, high in ebon
holders. Placed on the pall was a golden
replica of the triple papal crown. This
is topped by a globe and above the
globe a cross. It typifies the threefold
papal sovereignty: temporal, spiritual and
purgatorial.
To this solemn Requiem Mass for the
soul of the dead Pontiff came so many
that the vasty deeps of St. Mary’s could
not enfold them all. Mourners followed
the chanted prayers from the green sward
of Hyde Park, from the steps of the
cathedral. Every aisle was a block of
humans, every inch of floor space held
standing or kneeling figures. The sanctu-
ary held a company of bishops. Prince
of the Church and parish priest were
there to take part in that great Requiem
in ceternum.
Here were Franciscans in their brown
and Dominicans in their cream-and-black
habits ; the Passionist and the Redemp-
torist Orders added the austerity of black.
The entry had been impressive. Up the
middle of the church had paced the black-
cassocked and white-surpliced clergy,
black biretta clasped in folded hands.
Exquisite and deep was the lace on some
of the surplices, narrow indeed on others.
Rich flowed the purple of the bishops.
Here were Papal Knights in the medieval
court dress of the Vatican. Here came
the Apostolic Delegate, Dr. Panico, his
erect slimness drawing the scarlet wave
of the cappa magna.
Purple were the drapings of the throne
where the Apostolic Delegate, Dr. Panico,
who presided, was seated. About the
candle-lit altar moved the celebrant, Dr.
Gleeson, Bishop of Maitland. Black
touched with gold was his chasuble. Arch-
bishop Gilroy, every word clear, every
sentence clean-cut, spoke the panegyric.
Out floated the incense as the bishops
swung the censer over the catafalque.
Solemn came the last prayerful notes. In
slow procession the clergy left the cathe-
dral, black the copes of the Apostolic
Delegate and the bishops, white their tall
mitres.
The Governor-General and Lady
Gowrie, the State Governor and Lady
Wakehurst, and Chief Justice Jordan were
in the congregation. So were the Premier
and his Ministers and Leader of the
Opposition J. T. Lang. Companies of
Judges and Consuls and Mayor Nock
were also glimpsed.
Lady Wakehurst goes off to England
in the Orcades to-day, and for some
months, at least, Sydney will miss her
quick, bright smile, her friendly ways.
The Arts Club had her for its guest °f
honor last week, and said farewell. With
the Governor and their visitor from Eng-
land, Lady Cheetham, Lady Wakehurst
had a flutter at Warwick Farm last
Saturday. Her grey-and-white chiffons,
her white upturned hat conveyed the
right degree of coolness. Lady Cheet-
ham was effectively striped in black and
white. In the Orcades, too, will travel
Lady Margaret Loder, an aunt of Lord
Wakehurst.
Annette Kellerman, on her way back
to Australia in the Mooltan, which left
London on February 3, is preceded
by one of her cheery screeds. Not
one mention of war or crisis in it.
Annette declares that this time she
is coming home to live, and she will
be here on March 16. She has left
the World’s Fair and a nice fat con-
tract behind her. There was a clause in
that contract “should the Fair go on into
1940” and so on and so on, so Annette
folded up her pen and walked. A holi-
day spent in London and Paris cheered
her after the wimple hats which were
walking the streets of New York. An-
nette declares them to be the worst ever.
She tells that the “up-sweep” hair do
flopped in U.S.A. Most girls found it
made them look like skinned rabbits.
Australia’s No. 1 mermaid has spent
the last four years in Florida, and is
bringing back a pretty underwater short
made in that State. This was shown the
week before Annette left at Warm
Springs Foundation while the President
was there. Warm Springs is a healing
place for sufferers from infantile paralysis,
and was founded by President Roosevelt.
Annette uses these shorts at her lectures.
She has given nearly 50 of these since
last September. She says she has “talked
diet, health, reducing to very nice ladies
of every dimension.”
Schofield House, in spite of the stolid
lamp-posts, will seem more like a stretch
of South Sea islet to-night when the
doings in aid of the Barnardo Homes get
under way. These are named “Tropical
Revel” ; first of all there’s to be a picnic
tea between six and seven. Swimming,
tennis, dancing, and an ankle compe-
tition will be some of the diversions.
Over all will float the strains of gipsy
music. Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, president of
the younger group of Barnardo helpers,
has arranged the junketing. Mr. and
Mrs. Claude Plowman, with the aid of
Mr. Arnett, will judge the ankles. Ray-
mond Sawyer made this picture of smil-
ing Mrs. Lorenz.
Zora Cross’s nephew, Ray Nilsson, has
just won the Martin-Harrison scholar-
ship for singing. This is a Conserva-
torium prize, and is not often plucked
by a male —the girls have been winning
it for some years.
Crinolines were worn by the brides-
maids when Jean Miller married her
Mick Grace in St. Philip’s on Church
Hill. The bride wore her rich white
satins and Venetian laces with the right
air. Her white tulle muff with its posy
of orchids and lily-of-the-valley was a
picture touch in keeping with the old
colonial style in the three maids’ crino-
line frocks and small early-Victorian
hats worn tilted forward. Jean is the
younger daughter of the J. N. Millers,
of Elizabeth Bay. Mick is the only son
of Mrs. A. E. Grace. Bride’s parents
held a reception at the Australian Golf
Club. Honeymoon will be spent in
Hong Kong.
Even the hot days cannot keep Syd-
ney women away frbm their air-raid-
precautions and first-aid classes. They
are being held in the Red Cross rooms,
the Assembly Hall, the Feminist Club, in
the suburbs, and almost every centre of
women’s activities. From the teen-olds
to the seventies attend these classes, learn-
ing about phosgene, mustard gas,
lewisite. Though the spirit may tremble
the hands that make the notes are deter-
mined and steady. The lecturer arrives
complete with gas mask (not worn, of
course), which you must now call respira-
tor, and small phials which are passed
around to confirm his statement that
phosgene smells like musty hay, lewisite
like geranium, and so on. How to handle
fire bombs is going to be an exciting
class. All the women are terribly keen.
If any intending enemy could see the
determined look on their faces they’d
just cancel all their gas orders and
concentrate on soft soap.
St. Valentine’s feast day and Latvian
Consul Norman McLeod’s birthday
coincide. Friends were breezily invited
to come in for drinks about six o’clock,
but all day long the cream house in
James-street, Chatswood, was besieged
by telephone calls and callers in the flesh.
Some people came for tea and stayed on
till about eight. Others came at six and
were still there at 11. One busy young
thing came up from the city, and mur-
mured enviously about a bath. “A
bath? Why not?” said the hostess. Up
the stairs shot the young visitor, and
sounds of wallowing in water filled the
land. Flowers were magnificent gladioli
and roses. Late-departers went off with
fistfuls. Mrs. McLeod wore a pink
chrysanthemum in her dark hair, and
her frock was of pink lace. Valentines
to the host, from apparently languishing
fair, but unsigned, were passed around.
Charles Nicis sang, the Balalaika band
(in costume) played. Marie Houston,
very Spanish-looking in her camellia-red
frock, sang. Mrs. Claude Plowman and
Marjorie Murdoch were attractive. Mrs.
McLeod’s sister Mrs. Targett and niece
Jocelyn helped mix drinks and guests.
This is how Lady Beatty, wife of the
forceful-looking young Earl, looked at
the luncheon given in their honor by
the Navy League and the Royal Empire
Society. The Countess comes with the
reputation of being one of London’s
best-dressed women, and when you re-
member that she belongs to one of the
first families of Virginia what’s won-
derful about that? But what money and
clothes and even a coronet couldn’t give
her are her figure and complexion. They
are so good it’s a treat to watch her.
An artist friend of this Letter declares
she is the nearest approach to the Dana
Gibson girl he has ever seen. She cer-
tainly looked cool directness in her navy
and amethyst spotted ensemble. The
frock was navy with the light spots, the
bolero was of the light silk with dark
spots. Photograph by Hood.
By the death of Mrs. Margaret Colling-
ridge, a link with early Ryde associations
has gone. She had lived in the one house
for over 50 years. She was a daughter
of the late Alexander Douglas, civil engi-
neer and surveyor in the Scottish civil
service. Her husband, the late Arthur
Collingridge, was founder of the Royal
Art Society and a trustee of the National
Art Gallery. Five of her sons enlisted
for the Great War.
The Walter Swinsons are off to India.
It is just a short holiday, and some of
the time will be spent in Colombo. But
though the sojourn there is short, it looks
as though Mrs. Swinson may miss the
opening night of her beloved symphony-
concerts.
The palpitating moment for 600 women
at the Day Nurseries’ money-maker the
other afternoon was the plucking of the
number to which was attached a Ger-
maine Rocher frock. A model dress for
2s. 6d. Probably that’s what the serpent
said to Eve: “Here you are. Take a
chance!” Number 9 won the prize. The
banqueting hall of the Australia was
crowded. The McKelvey lady was one
of the smartest. Black was her straight-
brimmed hat, and black her frock. She
talked happily of her husband’s slow but
sure recovery. He’s taking in an occa-
sional cinema and a race meeting now
and again.
Alexander Gordon’s lady, who was
president, was being congratulated on the
success. Mrs. C. P. Johnson, her fair
coloring just right under her black hat,
left her large party to help itself while
she helped the secretaries. The John-
sons, as you know, are the donors of the
model day nursery at Redfern. Great
flocks of tea-drinkers were shepherded by
Mrs. G. S. McNeil, Mrs. George Osborne
and Mrs. Edward Lloyd Jones. Mayoress
Nock added blue and white to the after-
noon’s color scheme. Mrs. J. L. Ruth-
ven’s sheers were sapphire. Kathleen
Cobcroft’s pale-blue silk linen was like-
able. Blue also gleamed in Mrs. Mal-
colm Mackellar’s flowered silks.
Mrs. Lennox Bode and Gloria Moore
Cosgrave were in the audience ; so was
Mrs. Bertie Kelly, very handsome in
black. The garments shown were of
the de luxe class ; Mainbocher, Patou,
Bruyere, Chanel, Lanvin, Maggy Rouff
and Schiaparelli some of the de-
signers. Irene Purcell and others of
the cast of “The Women” displayed
the clothes on figures that are right for
actresses —all good lines. Mrs. Venour
Nathan, Audrey Connell and other well-
known fair were in the parade.
David Smyth is back in Sydney, and
has temporarily taken possession of his
inheritance, No. 8 March-street. He says
he has no intention of making his home
in Australia. He expects to face London-
wards in three months’ time or so.
There’s a filmy mist of sadness over
the comedy “Tovarich” that makes the
present offering of the Independents one
of the most charmful of their presen-
tations. Having with dogged determina-
tion followed it in the French, this Letter
was glad to relax and follow this in-
terpretation of the White Russian in the
English. The play shows fine flashes of
insight, as when the grand duke, now
a butler, says to the Communist
Commissar: “We are the Russia of yes-
terday, you are the Russia of to-day. I
cannot but feel neither of us will mean
a great deal to the Russia of to-morrow.”
Doris Fitton has, in the exiled grand
duchess, a part that fits her perfectly.
Margaret B. Heaton has been appointed
principal of the Memorial College of
Household Arts and Science, Kirribilli.
The new principal holds the Diploma in
Domestic Arts and Science of the Man-
chester Training College of Domestic
Economy, also various teaching diplomas
from London. She has had experience
in homecraft teaching at the College of
Technology at Manchester Uni. Miss
Heaton has travelled extensively, and has
a special knowledge of Continental
cookery. She is, besides, an accomplished
musician, and holds the certificate of the
Royal College of Music, London. She
has lived for two years in Vic., engaged
in dietary work for the Government
A Sydney woman just returned front
England remarked the other day that the
average Australian father and mother had
no idea what it cost to launch a daugh-
ter in London. The estimated cost of a
coming-out ball was about £4OO. The
food would cost nothing less than 10s. 6d.
a head, and there would have to be well
over 400 guests if the affair was to make
any sort of splash in the social water-
hole. There must be champagne (a bottle
to every three guests was the minimum),
and flowers would tot up to £4O or £5O.
Then there are cigarettes, awnings and
lanterns, and many people have an elec-
trician on the spot all evening in case
of fuses. Orchestras and a dozen and one
sundries, not to speak of daughter’s frocK
and flowers, won’t leave much change
out of £lOO. Blessed are the Sydney
parents whose daughters can make their
coming-out bow at some exclusive
club ball or at some charity flutter
decked with a full clutch of vice-regals.


THEY TOOK HIGHBROW OUT
OF PHILOSOPHY!!!
AN AMAZING
BARGAIN
“Library of World's Great
T hinkers"
Considering the everlasting worth of
real literature, and the value of it
to the individual groping for light in
a world of political and economic
turmoil, it is truly amazing how this
twenty-volume “Library of the
World’s Great Thinkers’’ can be
sold at such a low, well-nigh
ridiculous price.
PUBLIC DEMAND FOR
INFORMATION
The welfare of the modern man, and
woman, too, is so intimately con-
cerned with the ever-changing scene
of political, social and international
life that to-day brings an ever-
increasing desire for information and
knowledge; to interpret the problems
of the times—problems which, if not
clearly understood, may be vital to
the very life of an individual as well
as a nation.
Hence the demand for serious read-
ing—and the reason for this master-
piece . . . the “Library of the World’s
Great Thinkers”—at a price to
please all.
Angus and Robertson will deliver to your home
for a deposit of 10/- and small monthly pay-
ments.
W. M. HUGHES
says
“TAKE MORE INTEREST"
The Rt. Hon. W. M. Hughes,
in recent public utterances,
stressed the need for more general
appreciation and understanding of
the trend of world events—events
which might at any moment shake us
rudely from our insular apathy!
And the pathway to shrewder, surer
understanding, keener appreciation of
world events is through the “Library of
the World’s Great Thinkers” !
Your copy will be delivered to your
door by Angus and Robertson for
1 0/- deposit and small monthly pay-
ments.
Act quickly—the edition is limited
and selling rapidly!
NOTE THESE
AUTHORS
FREUD
PLATO
franklin
ARISTOTLE
FRANCIS BACON
ROUSSEAU
JOHN DEWEY
EMERSON
MONTAIGNE
THOMAS PAINE
DARWIN
CONFUCIUS
GOETHE
SPINOZA
SCHOPEN-
HAUER
TOLSTOI
VOLTAIRE
NIETZSCHE
KARL MARX
HAVELOCK
ELLIS
HOW KNOWLEDGE OF
PHILOSOPHY BUILDS
MENTAL STRENGTH
The great philosophers were the seekers
after solutions to the greatest problems
that have troubled mankind! Their
thoughts, as written down in the “Library
of the World’s Great Thinkers,” awaken
the reader to a new world, to a greater
strength of mind.
Reading through the works of the many
great thinkers and philosophers, we begin
to see our complicated world in a newer
light. Things once a mystery take shape
and form. Events that puzzled us become
clarified. And the tremendous drift of
modern peoples under autocratic leaders
becomes a reasoned, logical sequence of
many historic events 1
Surely it would be hard to find a more
useful set of 20 volumes than this library
or . sma ll sum asked for it! Ten
shillings deposit brings this wonderful
library to your home!
THE GREATEST MINDS OF ALL TIME
LIVE AS OUR COMPANIONS TO-DAY!
The “Library of the World’s Great Thinkers” is, in every sense,
“popular” reading. It is a veritable delight to follow the workings of
such great minds as those of Bacon (who is said by some to have written
Shakespeare) and Voltaire, whose vitriolic pen did so much to provoke
the French Revolution.
One could scarcely suggest any greater or more profitable pleasure than
to spend one’s leisure hours in the companionship of the greatest
thinkers of all time! To read their works as they are presented in this
magnificently produced and printed set of twenty volumes is the next
best thing, if that were possible, to actually talking to the writers.
What, however, is so fascinating about the reading of these books is
the fact that they impart to one’s thinking a new strength, a stronger
personal outlook, a keener understanding, not only of those about us,
but a shrewder interpretation of the thundering march of world
events to-day.
None who love books, who
venerate genius, and who
treasure knowledge will miss
this opportunity to secure
these twenty volumes of
mighty “thinkers” literature
from the greatest minds the
world has known.
DARWIN DID NOT SAY
“MAN CAME FROM
MONKEYS!”
There’s a revolutionary statement,
an absolute reversal of all our pre-
conceived ideas of Darwin and his
theory of evolution! Read the
“Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers” and find out what Darwin
really did say about man and his
proximity to the monkey in the pro-
cess of evolution.
Ten shillings deposit puts this grand
library of 20 mighty volumes in
your home.
MORALITY
SPLIT IN TWO
CIGMUND FREUD, world-famed
psychologist—renowned for his
research on sex and its problems—
here in these mighty volumes gives
you his views and findings on that
contentious subject. He delved so
deeply into the innermost recesses
of the human mind
that even the so-
called “sub-con-
scious” was robbed
of its secrets!
Few men created such
a storm of controversy
as this mild-mannered
scholar. As a result
of his work, the
science of psychology
is split in two—the
V— , )
7
4t\
Freudians (who attributed most mental
aberrations to a sex basis) and the non-
Freudians, who would have none of his
theories!
The entrancing story of Freud and his startling
theories is told in the ‘‘Library of the World’s
Great Thinkers,” 20 volumes of the greatest
thoughts and interpretations ever committed
to print.
TWENTY VOLUMES OF THE
WORLD’S GREATEST PHILOSOPHIES
Delivered to your Home for only 10/- Deposit
The “Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers,’’ from Angus and Robert-
son, comprises 20 volumes, by
richly Hound in “lifetime’’
binding of two-toned Royal Blue Silk
Weave cloth—inlaid panels, gold
titles and decorations with coloured
end-sheets. Stained and polished
tops and mercerised head bands.
Young and old alike will enjoy read-
ing the works of these great minds,
about the men whose works have so
influenced the world of to-day. Each
volume will bring comfort and con-
solation to the aged; strength and
courage to those who grapple with
life’s problems, and inspiration and
knowledge to the young student.
BUILDS YOUR PRESTIGE
A sound knowledge of the great philo-
sophies will enhance your prestige. To-day
we are expected to know about the vari-
ous influences that shaped our interesting
world and this age of transition.
A few minutes each evening with this
wonderful Library, or an occasional hour
or two when time permits, and soon you
will acquire a working knowledge of the
great philosophers— to the enhancement
of your prestige, to your personal enrich-
ment, and to the broadening of your
mental vision.
FORTIFY YOUR MIND
The stress of modern living leaves us at
times in dire need of mental refreshment,
of inspiration, and a different outlook.
The “Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers ’ is virtually a set of companions
to inspire, to refresh and to stimulate when
we need mental relaxation or change!
■ §
m
rj.
H
o
ONLY
K>
DEPOSIT
ENJOY THESE VOLUMES
Simply fill in the required particulars in the accom-
panying Order Form, attach Postal Note, Money Order
or Cheque for the full price of £7/19/6, or, if you
prefer, just 10/- deposit. Send this at once to us,
and your set will be sent, complete, by return mail.
To be obtained only from
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street - - - SYDNEY
DREAMS REVEAL
YOUR MIND
Havelock Ellis—contemporary of
Sigmund Freud—along with Jung
and Adler, has delved into dreams*
their cause and effect; their miseries,
terrors and delights.
His findings are an absorbing volume
in the “Library of the World’s Great
Thinkers”—a feast of gripping
interest and knowledge.
Ten shillings deposit to Angus and
Robertson secures this comprehen-
sive library, immediately.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON
89 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
FILL IN AND POST THIS
ORDER FORM TO-DAY
ORDER FORM
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
89 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Please send me the “Library of the World’s Great Thinkers,” 20 volumes, for which
I enclose a deposit of 10/-, and agree to make 13 further monthly instalments of
12/6 £B/12/6 in all; or I will pay £7/19/6 cash within 30 days of delivery.
NAME B. 22/2/’39
OCCUPATION
ADDRESS
BUSINESS ADDRESS


Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
jF you suffer from Eczema or other
itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatment another day. When
care is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chronic. Doan's Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic,
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Dun's Ointment
i
Personal and Missing Friends.
CONSTABLE—Relatives of CATHERINE
CONSTABLE, who died at Newtown, New
South Wales, in 1883, or of her niece, the late
Mary Ann Waters, formerly of Charters Towers.
Queensland, are requested to communicate wim
the PERPETUAL TRUSTEE CO., LTD-.
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
DOUDICAN. —Next-of-kin of JOHN DOUDI-
CAN, deceased, or any persons acquainted witn
their whereabouts, kindly communicate witn
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street
Sydney, Australia. Claimants should state tne
date and place of birth of their relative John
Doudican.
Statutory Notice to Next-of-kin.
RE MICHAEL WALSH, late of Kingfisher
Lane, East Brisbane, in the State
Queensland, Labourer, Deceased.
NOTICE is hereby given that JAM*
WALSH and all persons claiming th ro % A n Et
to be next-of-kin of the abovenamed MlLtiAc
WALSH, late of Kingfisher Lane, East
bane, in the State of Queensland, deepen-
who died on or about the Nineteentl
March, a.d. 1938, at South Brisbane, in J
said State, are hereby required to tonw
proof of their relationship to THE r
CURATOR, Brisbane, on or before the l
tieth day of August, 1939. AND that 1
the expiration of the lastmentioned the
Public Curator will proceed to dlstri J u ‘ e rtie ;
assets of the said deceased among the
entitled thereto, having regard only to the
of which he shall then have had no ' lC b e : r y,
DATED this Twentieth day of rew WJ
1939.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Public Curator,
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Mellbourne
Shatter
Guests who arrived at the David
Robertsons’ cocktail party last week
found their hostess had made herself a
diminutive “sandwich man” with a
placard, “Will you spare a coin for the
bushfire relief?” Of course, no one
could resist such an appeal, as a result
of which £lO 12s. was collected through
the medium of an upturned beach
umbrella in the lounge. A sideline was
a competition to guess the amount col-
lected, George Saenger, the winner, re-
ceiving a bottle of champagne.
The reason for the party was a wel-
come to Melbourne for the Louis
Saengers, the J. Plottels (who recently
returned from overseas) and the H. W.
Nocks. Mr. and Mrs. Nock, who lived
in Melbourne for some years before Mr.
Nock retired from active work with
Standard Oil, are now touring the world
in leisurely fashion, catching ships, trains
or aeroplanes just when they feel like
it. The Louis Saengers are visiting the
Alan Nathans (Mrs. Nathan is their
daughter), and finding much to intrigue
them in her two small daughters.
Others at the party were Mrs. B. F. Cox
and her daughter Margaret, and a Scot-
tish visitor whose home is in London,
Mrs. Brodie, who was accompanied
by her brother, Charlie Wilson, of
Scott’s Hotel. Mrs. Brodie sometimes
sees Mrs. Cox’s elder daughter Yvonne,
now Mrs. Miall, whose home is in Tun-
bridge Wells. Black seemed to be a
special favorite among women guests.
Mrs. Laing Hay wore black for her
frock of chiffon, which showed a crest-
of-fashion idea for rucking upon corsage
and sleeves. Mrs. Alan Nathan, Mary
Saenger, Mrs. Mark Graham, Betty
Erswell and Mrs. Bill Tilley, all’together
a: one stage of the proceedings, had some
gold clips and heady excitement in the
shape of white flowers upon dolls’ hats
as the only relief from all-black among
them.
Judging by the first inkling of autumn
fashions as shown in Melbourne by
Cann’s, the coming season just won’t be
worth living for the woman without a
pair of silver foxes. These animals, or
sometimes their cousins the blue foxes,
trim coats and suits, slide diagonally up
the basques of little jackets, appear at
hems or at knee-lines, climb like boa-
constrictors around sleeves, and come
out as pompons at the end of ties at
throat and waist. Also, they ornament
pockets, so that if one doesn’t possess a
whole animal one can make the best of
a slice of his midriff. No one seems to
know what has happened to the tails of
these cultivated canines, though, a num-
ber of tips are used up on the masthead
of little bits of hats pulled forward over
one eye..
.The family album walked out page by
page into the show. There were long
snaky dresses, children of the hobble-
skirted era, extravagant “adventuress”
gowns for cabarets or cocktails at home,
and some charming black velvet frocks
with rucked bodices and sleeves and
velvet bows clasped to fluted hem and
ruched neck. One full-length burgundy
evening coat went over a square-necked
sequin-belted ninon dinner gown a few
shades nearer the pastel. Little evening
jackets of velvet, snug superseders of
the bolero, are useful attributes for
several different evening frocks.
On Saturday afternoon on the Yarra
at Kew canoeing was grand fun for sun-
burned youngsters who enjoyed them-
selves for the sake of less lucky young
folk who are served by the Victorian
Society for Crippled Children. As all
funds were urgently needed by the
society there were no prizes, which fact
didn’t detract one paddleful of splash
from the enthusiasm of the canoeists,
who sailed in the manner born of South
Sea islanders on a cannibal raid. There
were also less serious events, rubber
pillow fights, a wrecked mariners’ race
in which the entrants made for land on
upturned boats, and a motor-boat sprint,
run with much spluttering and clouds
of gas.
Last year the canoe carnival (revived
after 25 years) was held in aid of the
After Care Society. This year’s carnival
committee includes president H. H. Olney,
chairman E. S. A. Wickham, vice-presi-
dents W. Kent Hughes and C. B. Teas-
dale, and Mrs. Kit Nelson, who helped
with the organising. She was particularly
pleased at the decision that the Society
for Crippled Children would benefit, for
she is one of its voluntary helpers.
In the Dickinson-Monteath photograph
is Margaret Rigby, whose wedding day,
February 25, will be the silver-wedding
anniversary of her parents, Mr. and Mrs.
E. J. Rigby, of Brighton. The church
where the marriage is to take place is
St. Andrew’s, Middle Brighton, which has
family associations, one of the earliest
being the bride’s christening. The “some-
thing old” in Margaret’s bridal apparel
includes orange-blossom, bouquet ribbon
and a Honiton lace handkerchief carried
by her mother at her wedding. The
’groom-to-be, Kinnaird (otherwise Ken)
Degenhardt, is the son of Mrs. H. A. F.
Wilkinson, who returned from a holiday
and health trip to England just in time
for the ceremony. The bride’s atten-
dants will be Jean Rigby, a brunette like
her sister, and two fairer ’maids, Vaire
Wilkinson and Marie Henderson.
George Sutton proved himself the per-
fect host when on behalf of his firm
(Hutchinson’s, Ltd.) he entertained
Madame Lul Gardo at luncheon on the
day she passed through Melbourne as
a passenger in the Largs Bay. Madame
Lul, whose Cossack Fury has just been
published, arrived all in white from top
to toe, with a handful of white feathers
in her hat and some roses on her
corsage. Mr. Sutton introduced the
guests with never a mistake over a name,
which was something of an achievement
considering several people were strangers
to him. He also made a speech in which
he made an attempt at swallowing his
vowels in the Russian manner, and he
had the menus printed in Russian, his
own work in co-operation with a Rus-
sian friend.
“A Waltz Dream,” produced on Satur-
day evening, had its audience guessing.
The music tickled up chords of memory,
but many people present were uncertain
if they had ever seen the show before.
Some had, perhaps, in their dreams ; a
few others agreed that they had seen it in
the original version about 29 years ago.
The piece, classified as a romantic
operetta, allows for some spectacular
scenes in palaces and royal council
chambers, for a young moon shining on
a garden restaurant, some nymphs in
chiffon moving through aesthetically-
minded ballets, some tuneful songs and
some bright comedy. The house was full
and the audience appreciative, but it
would have been more so if the show
had been pruned to end three-quarters of
an hour earlier. As for the cast, at the
last curtain it looked fit to drop dead in
its tracks. Even sprightly Bernice Claire,
who had to play a sentimental role in-
stead of a comedy part with a twinkle in
her eye and lots of polished backchat,
was minus the twinkle when she smiled
behind her presentation flowers.
In the house were the Fred Dennetts,
Mrs. Dennett wearing a black gown with
high waistline and very narrow shoulder-
straps, its effect enhanced by clusters of
pearl grapes clipped to her ears and
round her throat. Matching these in
appearance, though a lot older, was a
comb, something genuine in the antique
line, picked up by Mrs. Dennett on her
travels abroad. She bought it because
it went so happily with her “brummies.”
Mrs. Dan Reddan wore a descent of
white ninon cape from shoulders to toes.
Among small girls who seem to have
grown considerably since the last time
they were at a theatre were Elizabeth
Cahill, in white muslin and white bunny
cape (she was with her parents, the Pat
Cahills, and her grandmother, Mrs. D. H.
Dureau), and Helen Chambers, who sat
between Dr. and Mrs. Roy Chambers.
This family of three has recently re-
turned from a golfing and swimming
holiday at the Peninsular Club.
Mrs.' Max Clemons wore a simply-cut
frock of figured satin. The Ross Grey
Smiths were there, she glittersome in a
sheath of gold lame, he wearing the fashion-
able red carnation. Another metal-woven
gown was worn by Mrs. M. P. Cordia,
who with her husband has recently re-
turned from Europe. (They left behind
them their son Reg, a young sculptor of
modernistic tendencies, who has exhibited
at several shows in Melbourne and is
very thrilled at his recent success in being
admitted to the Royal Academy.) Also
in the audience was Lu Conolly, sitting
all alone. His wife and Mrs. Tom
Rutherford are having a very grand time
in India. In their last letters they men-
tion an elephant hunt, a camping expedi-
tion taken in luxury under satin tents
with silken tassels. The Maharajah of
Mysore was their host, and the Viceroy
of India and the Governor of Madras
were among his guests.
In the Austin-Murcott photograph is Pat
Robinson, daughter of the L. C. Robin-
sons, who, like her parents, has travelled
far and oft in the Orient. She was born
in Singapore, lived in China and in
Cochin-China, and went to school in
Annam, where she learnt to speak
French, a considerable help when she
was studying for an Alliance Fran?aise
exam, a few years ago. She won the
prize for the best French scholar in
Victoria. Recently Miss Robinson com-
pleted an arts course at Melbourne Uni-
versity. She also went to a business
college, and has passed out as a com-
petent stenographer. Her father joined
the Eastern Extension Cable Service 34
years ago in Adelaide. He has recently
been lent to the Indian Radio and Com-
munications Co., and shortly leaves for
Bombay in connection with his special-
ised work.
Among exhibits that hold the eye at the
Home Building Exhibition (in the Exhibi-
tion Building) is the Australian Cement
Co.’s cottage. It’s a simple erection, the
frontage only in white and green, but as
it stands it has character, which attribute
so many of the other exhibits seem to
lack. Some of the furniture on show
has a to-look-at but not a to-live-with
air, soulless pieces with expense heavily
emphasised, and the furnishings seem to
be in party frocks and all their frillings
for all occasions. Treatment of various
synthetic substances is interesting.
Walls are made from a by-product of
sugarcane, and for sound-proofing build-
ings and windows there are soundproof
blocks (that look rather like waffles made
from seaweed) which also have their
origin in the canefields of Queensland.
Kapok shows off its paces for pillows
and mattresses, lifesaving rafts and belts,
boxing-gloves, and high-altitude flying-
suits and its qualities as an insulator and
a sound-absorber.
Mrs. Warne Nicholls, who migrates
to Australia every year as regularly as
the little bee-eaters fly south when the
cold northern winter is over, is once
again in Melbourne, and has made
plans to return to Fiji in the Mariposa
on March 27. Next year she may break
her cycle of travelling for the last 28
years, for she and her husband hope
to go to England in one of the cargo
ships which touch at Suva. While
Victoria has been in the grip of a
drought Fiji has been almost washed
beneath the Pacific by floods. Mr,
Nicholls has written to his wife about
the hurricane which has laid waste then
garden, blackening every tree and shrub
as if it had been ravaged by fire. The
cook boy’s house was washed away,
whereupon he grabbed his wife and
chattels and bolted for the hills. That
same evening Mr. Nicholls had a guest
for dinner who remained five days, as
all roads were impassable. The men did
their own cooking and lived more or less
substantially on curried tinned meat for
every meal.
This week at the Athenieum an exhibi-
tion is being held of the works of the
late Miles Evergood. Mrs. Evergood has
arranged the show, and everybody wishes
her well. She was the artist’s second wife,
and his junior by many years. She’s an
American, and lived most of her life
in the hustle and bustle of New York,
working long hours every day as a rug-
designer and -weaver (an intricate but
fascinating craft which is profitable for
those with ability and experience). Mrs.
Evergood, known to her friends as Polly,
adapted herself to Australian conditions
with pluck and a sense of humor. Re-
linquishing her own profession, living in
the quiet country, driving her husband
backwards and forwards on his painting
trips was a contrast to her previous exist-
ence, but she found it all interesting, and
made many friends among Austra-
lians.
Dr. Elizabeth Chesser is reported by
cable to have said that the women of
Mayfair and of the middle-class London
suburbs have the mentalities of 16-year-
olds, that they have too many luxuries
and labor-saving devices, and the fact
that they won’t have enough children to
keep them busy turns their thoughts in-
wards and gives them neurosis. Dr.
Chesser, who before her marriage was
Elizabeth Sloane, has degrees in both
medicine and psychology, and she prac-
tises both these professions in Harley-
street. She has an apartment in Harley-
street and a house in Beaconsfield, Buck-
inghamshire. She entertains a good deal,
so pleasantly that those who go to her
parties always hope they’ll be asked again.
Dr. Chesser has written several hooks
on scientific marriages and kindred sub-
jects. She dresses well, has a sense of
humor and a witty tongue, and lectures
frequently to various societies. Both her
sons are doctors, and she is now a grand-
mother. One of the. schemes she is par-
ticularly interested in at present is a pro-
position for building flats for working
girls. .
In consequence of another mother and
her medico son leaving for abroad, .West-
ralia is playing an important part in this
year’s plans for Mrs. Frank Andrew and
her son, Dr. Rod Andrew. Dr. Andrew
is off very soon to take over the duties
of acting superintendent at the Children s
Hospital in Perth during the leave of
absence of Dr. Walter Seed, who means
to do post-graduate work in London. He
and his mother, Mrs. W. P. Seed, are
sailing in March. Mrs. Andrew expects
to arrive in Perth, where she will live
with Rod in the resident’s house, some
time in May, and will probably be
back in Melbourne about November. She
and Mrs. Seed and their sons are friends
of many years’ standing.


WALTHER a STEVENSON
395 CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
£l3/10/-
DOUBLE RIGGED.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15 /- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
Freight paid in N.S.W. for cash with order.
Cowboy Bits, Spurs, Bridles,
Chaparajos, Tapaderos, etc.
SLIDE RULE COURSE
FOR BUSINESS AND
PROFESSIONAL MEN
Modern executive?
in every sphere
conserve mental
energy and en-
s u r e quicker,
more accurate calculations by the use of the slide
rule. For all types of accountancy, engineering and
other problems . . multiplication, division, propor-
tions, square and cube roots. Our simple course
enables you to master the use of the slide rule quickly
and efficiently. Slide rule supplied FREE with course.
Write for details to Kingsford Smith Colleges, Dept.
14. 255 a George Street, Sydney.
YOU COVER
THE WEST
with the combination of
6AM
6PM
6KG
Northam . .
Metropolitan
Kalgoorlie .
2000 watts
500 watts
500 watts
88% of total licences in W.A. are
within 50 miles of 6AM, 6PM, 6KG
St. George’s House., St. George’s Terr.,
PERTH.
Backache
& Bladder
Weakness?
TRY THIS NEW SCIENTIFIC REMEDY
Kidney Acidity and Bladder Weak-
ness are now being quickly overcome
by a new, revolutionary method that
is simple, natural and scientific.
Specialists have traced the cause of
Burning' and Smarting*, Backache,
Bladder troubles, Foot and Leg
Pains, Getting up Bights, Frequent
Day Calls, Loss of Vigour, Nervous-
ness and Constipation to self-poison-
ing, i.e., a clogged colon. Due to the
inactivity of the colon (large intes-
tine) all the food refuse is not passed
out of the body. Instead, it encrusts
on the colon walls and there putrefies.
Virulent poisons and bacteria seep
into the bloodstream which carries
them to the kidneys and bladder.
These poisons impede the action of
the kidneys. Irritating acids that
should be passed out in the water are
allowed to remain and inflame the
delicate kidney filters thus causing
pain, distress, weakness and embar-
rassment.
To get rid of kidney complaints and
bladder weakness you must remove
the encrustations on the colon. Nor-
mal bowel movements cannot do this
—the walls of the colon have become
inactive. Opening medicines only
purge the lower end of the colon, so
drink warm water and ‘Coloseptic’
every morning. This simple plan
cleanses the colon, tones up the
walls, giving them back their power
of normal movement.
‘Coloseptic’ corrects acid conditions in the
colon, kidneys and bladder. It stimulates
kidney and bladder action. ‘Coloseptic’ also
stimulates the action of the pores of the
skin and the lungs—important organs which
eliminate poisons from your system. ‘Colo-
septic’ promptly establishes internal clean-
ness thus helping your body work smoothly
and naturally. Get ‘Coloseptic’ from your
chemist to-day. Individual size, 2/9;
Economy size, 5/6.
FREE SAMPLE
Send 3d. stamps for postage ; a liberal Free
Trial Sample and interesting, intimate book
will be sent you. COLOSEPTIC CO. (N.Z.),
LTD., P.O. Box 1067, Auckland.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Refugees for New Guinea?
“Kaloa”: The latest refugee scheme
aims at settling Europeans on the Central
Tablelands of New Guinea. A paragraph
which is going the rounds says the area
is “ideal for the purpose.”
How a spot 6000 or 7000 feet above
sea-level in the middle of the tropics, in
country scarcely visited by whites, which
maintains only a sparse native popula-
tion, can be suitable for the settlement
of town-bred Jews whose knowledge of
the bush has been gained by odd glimpses
of the vegetation in Vienna’s Opernring
or through Berlin’s Brandenburger Thor
is hard to understand.
It is almost as hard to understand as
the reasons given in favor of the scheme
—that “the retention of New Guinea is
essential to Australia, and it is desirable
that there should be an increased settle-
ment of Europeans”; that it is “very
unlikely that New Guinea can be
colonised by Australia, which wants
colonists of its own,” and that if the Aus-
tralian Government “will co-operate
with Jewish relief organisations, finance
will be no barrier.”
These districts are not open yet for
Europeans. When they are, there will
be plenty of Australians tumbling over
each other to get there.
But it will be a crying shame if they
are opened. They are inhabited by agri-
cultural people, intelligent, peaceful and
harmless to neighbors, yvho should be
left alone and protected from “civilised”
influences.
The Bishop’s Leg
“Dungeness”: During an acquaintance
of nearly 50 years with the Torres Strait
islands and their native inhabitants, I
have seen much good work done among
them by religious bodies. It is with real
regret that one reads such utter mislead-
ing nonsense as the “Carpentarian,” offi-
cial organ of the C. of E. diocese of Car-
pentaria, uses to describe a visit by the
bishop to Saibai Island, “off the coast
of Papua,” to dedicate a new church
built by the inhabitants.
Among our visitors were many non-
Christians, and some who had never eaten
flour or rice or sugar, and refused such
foreign foods. We had the really primi-
tive man there. The new church had at-
tracted him, and may mean something
very great for him Near the water’s
edge were 1500 people. The most impres-
sive sight was the few hundred people
in the foremost ranks, whose sole know-
ledge of Christianity was that God ex-
isted. They were decked in war paint and
armed with bows and arrows... .but ex-
tended a hand of welcome to the bishop.
They had come to rejoice with their
friends at Saibai for that which they
themselves had not.
The only kindly explanation is that
someone has worked a gorgeous legpull
on the bishop and his diocesan paper.
Saibai has had a resident white teacher
and State school for 30 years past, a
native council and police force as well,
anc j_ a t any rate, when I last visited there
—every inhabitant is a professing Chris-
tian. The population numbers under 350,
that of the whole of the Strait islands
under 3000. Half of them could not pos-
sibly have visited Saibai for the occa-
sion, although all are Christians, and at
least as civilised as the Saibai people. It
is Queensland territory, and visits from
the Papuan mainland are not only illegal
but are not welcomed, for reasons of not-
too-ancient history. They were never
“warriors” in any sense, but in pre-white
days helpless victims of the Tugeri raiders
from the Dutch territory to the west-
ward whenever those genuine fighters
cared to take a headhunting trip along
the coast.
The people who built and paid for the
Saibai church are honest, simple-minded
"I've lost count, Ma—you'll ’ave to round ’em up agin."
folk. They will recognise the “war paint”
and bows and arrows as the sort of game
that beeg pfeller white man expects when
visiting. But it will be a blow to my
Saibai frients to read—-as they mostly
can, and will—that they are largely un-
christianised savages.
“X.T.”: As a northerner, I glowed with
satisfaction when I read that 10 out of 12
children who sat for scholarships in Dar-
win had achieved not merely passes but
passes with marks of astonishing alti-
tude. After that, let those recreant
southerners withdraw their sneer that the
North cannot breed white Australians of
healthy British stock, alert in brain and
equal to the best mental products of
Sydney, Melbourne and Devonport
(Tas.). The leading passes in order were
gained by William Wong (dux of Dar-
win school), Anastasia Kailis, William
Eacott, Mavis Moo, William Chin Quan,
Peggy Hayles, Michael Perez and Henry
Chin.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: The spans of Brisbane’s
new Kangaroo Point Bridge will be
closed in October, and the work of laying
down decking will begin at once. Early
in 1940 Brisbane citizens will be able to
look down, from the centre of the new
monument to Forgan Smith’s Govern-
ment and reflect that it represents a
saving in distance of fully two miles to
most of the population of East Brisbane,
at the modest cost of a couple of 7000-
ton cruisers of the type which the Com-
monwealth has recently bought. Also
that it should prove a fine ranging mark
for artillery.
* * * *
“P.” : In Sydney with blood in his eye
is Earl Parker, of Alice Springs. He is
looking for the fellow who wrote that
the Alice lacked a modern pub. Parker
owns the Stuart Arms, and it’s among
the best hotels in the Territory—good
table, wide, airy rooms and corridors,
and the last place at which you can get
draught beer before you reach Darwin,
Parker admits that the Alice Springs is
also a good pub, and coming from a rival
licensee that must mean something,
Parker, born in Newcastle (N.S.W.),
went to Kalgoorlie in 1893. He has seen
a lot of Australia in his time—kept pubs
at Oodnadatta and Norwood (S.A.), as
well as Alice Springs. He was in Oodna-
datta when the railway was taken roug
to the Alice.
* * * *
“Scented Sam”: Gone, but not for-
gotten and far more unobtrusive in ex-
tinction than in existence, the Eagle
Farm meatworks which used to scent the
advent of every tourist into the Brisbane
River. What memories they bring back!
Of cold mornings on the Pinkenba wharf,
waiting for little Japanese steamers on
which there were English captains and
sometimes as many as half a dozen pas-
sengers ; of the Ventura and Sonoma
waddling in from over the Pacific ; and of
every one of the officers, passengers, re-
porters and Customs men holding their
noses with determination. I remember
an Afghan who had run amuck standing
under arrest, his proboscis wrapped up
in his beard. I recall Jack Johnson,
towering like a burnt tree, remarking
that there was suah some aroma heah ;
Jack London . (“Say, comrade, I don’t
know what else you do here, but you
can stink!”). Also Graham Bell, in-
ventor of the telephone, informing Amos
Elliott, captain of a U.S.A. University
Rugby team, that if Australians lived on
that rich kind of atmosphere California
hadn’t a hope with them. The old place
was pulled down last year. It is long
since Pinkenba was the mailboat ter-
minus.
* * * *
“II Vecchio”: With all the talk about
the law-abiding foreigner, there seems to
be a pretty tough leaven of imports round
N. Queensland sugar districts. Whenever
there is a court case worth reporting
in some towns it is about evens that a
foreigner will be involved, whatever
the charge. But perhaps the stranger
finds it difficult to distinguish between
wrongdoing and innocence. One Miguel
Feluga, of Ayr, was fined £1 and costs
for being found working before 6 a.m.
contrary to the canecutters’ award. He
was hacking away blithely at 5.20 a.m.
when a union sleuth crept up and cap-
tured him. Quite right, of course ; but
I wonder what is the earliest hour that
a union sleuth is allowed to work with-
out committing a criminal offence?
* * * *
“Ayr”: Queensland’s sugar mills
Derby (there are 33 mills, 16 co-opera-
tives) was this year won easily by Tully’s
(co-op.) 291,486 tons of cane crushed.
It is a long way from the best figures,
the record being held by Mulgrave Mill
with 353,000 tons in 1936. The co-ops.
handled 2,692,000 tons—so,ooo tons more
than half the cane crushed. As a sugar
district, Forgan Smith’s Mackay is miles
ahead of the rest. Last season it turned
off 1,000,000 tons of cane, with Ayr next
(750,000 tons) and Cairns a close third,
* * * *
“Kalamia”: In a recent court case
over wageSj f aC | S cam e out which show
how Governments, councils and unions
encourage the man who pioneers an en-
terprise which may revolutionise the fate
0 f industries. Brice Henry has about
4000 acres of rich land near Tully (N.Q.).
Restrictive regulations prevent his grow-
j ng sugar on i t , s 0 he is developing it to
prove that chiller cattle as good as those
from the Argentine can be produced
there. Every authority on these matters
who goes to the North is taken to Rivers-
dale. Ministers make speeches about it.
It turns out that shire rates on it work
out at £2BO p.a.—more than 10s. per
head of average number of cattle car-
ried. Also, the A.W.U. brought test
cases based on the plea that the property
came under the station-hands’ award and
that men engaged to plant grass were
entitled to £4 Bs. per week, plus £1 a
week for board, plus transport to and
from the farm. However, the P.M. de-
cided that a property owner who
ploughed land and planted artificial
grasses was not a station owner. Station
owners, by Queensland ideas, cease to
be such when they soil their hands with
agriculture.


fOR W£AK M£N AND WOMtN
Loss, of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definitely
revitalise you, banishing premature old age and
weakness. Price 10/6. Call or write to-day for
particulars of this amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
m
GIBND
TONIC
WBLfTS
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
\nsreles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
touffi normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of a
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy! „
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
THE 2NO AMATEUR BAND SUPERHET.
It Is not essential to gang three tuned circuits, comprising R.F. amplifier,
mixer and oscillator, in a receiver designed to cover the most-used amateur
bands only. The limited frequency range needed for each band permits the
use of separate controls, with signal tuning on the oscillator bandspread
control. The receiver described here is used at the writer’s experimental
station with excellent results on 10, 20, 40 and 80 metres.
Something more suitable than the
simple tuned R.F. receiver is essential if
consistent communication is to be en-
joyed on the congested 20- and 40-metre
bands. No matter how perfectly shielded
and well designed, the best T.R.F. re-
ceiver is practically useless in a district
crowded with amateur stations. A good
superhet is essential for efficient recep-
tion, and good design can easily be com-
bined with simplicity and reasonable
cost. The receiver described here was
used originally without preselection, and
gave a very good account of itself with
mixer input alone. The regenerative R.F.
stage was added later, as may be seen
in the illustrations. (Many readers may
feel disposed to add such a unit to an
existing small superhet such as the
Fig. 1. —Circuit diagram, with necessary values, of the 2NO Amateur Band Superheterodyne Receiver. An octode valve is used with a separate oscillator
in an unconventional manner with very good results at high frequencies.
Ideal Amateur Superhet described in
B. 15/4/’36, 22/4/’36 and 13/l/’37.)
It was decided in this receiver to use
a 6L7 mixer with 6JSG oscillator, one
stage of I.F. at 465 kc. using a 6K7, 6C5
plate detector with provision for head-
Fig. 2. —How mixer and oscillator coils
are wound. Ignore L2 and L3 where an
R.F. stage is used with the receiver.
phone connection, 76-beat frequency
oscillator and 6V6G beam tetrode out-
put to the speaker. Tracking is so little
a problem on the amateur bands that a
manual control was arranged for the
50mmfd. variable condenser tuning the
mixer grid, with the usual bandsetter
and bandspread tuner on the oscillator.
This worked so well in the final form
of the receiver that there is complete
lack of interlocking between these cir-
cuits, so that the mixer tuning becomes
a very effective manual volume control.
It is particularly useful to detune this
circuit when trying to copy a distant
C.W. station alongside a powerful local
signal.
Examination of the circuit diagram,
Fig. 1, shows that, with the addition of
the capacity-coupled regenerative R.F.
amplifier, an unconventional mixer is
used. When the receiver was under test
before adding the R.F. stage, trouble
developed with the only available 6L7
valve. No replacement being on hand,
a compromise was sought with interest-
ing results.
Octode Mixer with Separate Oscillator.
The only 6.3-volt valve available of
suitable type was a Philips EK2G octode.
As the receiver had already been laid
out for separate mixer and oscillator,
it was decided to adopt a little-known
method with this type of valve —using
the EK2G with the oscillator plate con-
nected to the pentode section screen
grid, and the oscillator grid employed
as the injector grid to the 6JSG oscil-
lator. Coupling is in the usual manner
for a 6L7, through a 50mmfd. mica
ceramic condenser, with a 50,000-ohm
resistor to earth to keep oscillator volt-
age from the injector grid. This gives
remarkable conversion gain at the
highest frequencies, and there is almost
complete lack of interlocking.
When the receiver was finally com-
pleted with the R.F. stage in action it
was found that other suitable valves in
this scheme of connection are the re-
cently-introduced types 6KB and 6JBG.
(It is noteworthy that in Radio Hand-
Fig. 3. —The receiver seen from the controls. These are, left to right:
R.F. bandswitch, R.F. tuning, mixer tuning, bandspread tuning and band-
setter. An old vernier-dial motion is adapted for the last, with the band
positions marked with Indian ink on an'aluminium plate. Bottom controls
are, left to right: R.F. regeneration, I.F. gain, on-off switch, B.F.O.
switch, ’phone jack.
hook for this year the latest amateur
band superhets employ a 6JBG in this
manner with separate oscillator.) The
EK2G, howeyer, gives better results.
Instead of using the popular cathode
tap arrangement to obtain regeneration
in a mixer stage, a tip was taken from
“QST” and plate feedback coils were
used for both mixer and oscillator. Thus
with the cathode earthed there is less
possibility of hum modulating D.C.
signals and making them R.A.C. Also,
oscillator voltage is less likely to appear
in the mixer grid circuit.
In the circuit diagram the EK2G
mixer is shown with a plate feedback
coil inductively coupled to the grid cir-
cuit. This is applicable only where re-
generation is wanted on the mixer. If
the receiver is built minus the R.F. stage,
Fig . 4. —Rear view, showing the layout. The round screening
can is the B.F.O. unit.
then regeneration is a decided advan-
tage on the mixer. In such case the
usual 50,000-ohm potentiometer will be
included in the screen grid circuit for
variation of potential. If the receiver
is made up as shown in the circuit
diagram with regenerative R.F. stage,
retention of regeneration on the mixer
would complicate matters, and the plate
coil should be omitted. Actually the
circuit should be shown with plate of
the EK2G connected directly to the
primary of the first I.F.T. This point
must be borne in mind if the receiver
includes the R.F. stages
Switching Plus Plug-in Coils.
With the receiver in its initial form,
plug-in coils were used for simplicity and
efficiency. They take a lot of beating
in an amateur band receiver since leads
in tuned circuits can be kept extremely
short. It is no trouble, moreover, to
change two coils for each band manu-
ally. With an R.F. stage, however, three
coils become a nuisance. It was decided,
therefore, to make up the regenerative
R.F. stage with switching, employing a
four-section two-pole switch for the four
bands. Being separately tuned, plus re-
generation, this stage calls for a fair
degree of sharp tuning when lifting a
weak signal out of the background, but
on normal signals regeneration can be
reduced and tuning is relatively broader.
There is another advantage. As may
be expected, image interference on 20
metres from the 19-metre broadcast
stations is only very slight with the R.F
stage. On occasions the writer likes
to listen to Daventry and other stations
around 19 metres. Procedure is to tune
to the weak image on 20 metres, then
to tune the R.F. stage to the higher fre-
quency. This brings the 19-metre stations
up to full speaker volume without the
necessity for altering the bandsetter con-
trol.
Circuit Details.
There are seven valves, not including
a power supply, which is not shown.
This is quite con-
ventional, consisting
of the usual 385-
volts power pack
with double filter
and 80 rectifier. For
the R.F. amplifier a
6K7 is used. A 6D6
may be used with
similar results. For
those who want R.F.
amplification at a
high degree on 10
metres, the use of an
1851 is suggested.
This valve has been
tried in the receiver
without any circuit
alteration, and gave a great lift on 10
metres. The 6K7, nevertheless, does a
very good job.
A small capacity is provided for aerial
coupling, connected as shown. If
coupling for a doublet aerial is pre-
ferred, this means a switch with two
more sections on the four positions. A
doublet can be used quite effectively,
however, by connecting one side through
the small adjustable capacity, and the
other side to the receiver chassis. All
circuit values are given. As the R.F.
stage was added and not planned from
the start, capacity coupling is used to
the mixer. This is simple and fully
effective. The mixer coils were originally
wound with the plate feedback coils
for regeneration, and this winding was
tried as a primary coupling. There is
not enough coupling thus, and primary
coupling calls for interwinding for two-
thirds of the length of the grid coil.
Grid of the R.F. stage is manually
tuned by a lOOmmfd. ceramic insulation
midget variable condenser. The 6JSG
is one of the most satisfactory triodes
for use as a superhet oscillator, and this
is recommended. Alternatively a 6C5
or 76 may be used. Bandspread tuning
is obtained by the old and useful dodge
of tapping the oscillator coil down to the
required degree. Specifications are given
with the coil details ; but the position of
the tap depends upon the capacity of the


U/
■
*T
Ul
ac
60
US
aa
ec
m
m
3.
60
IU
£
& ■
ee
jBH
, • • ■
sgm
■St
mm
ee
m
ca
mi
il I
i
m
:
llli
mm
sa®
1
IT
IcVlpe,^
■TO
The further and faster you
go the more you’ll save.
Speed makes less differ-
ence to petrol consumption
with Super Shell than with
any other spirit.
THE SHELL CO. OF AUSTRALIA LTD. (Inc. in Great Britain) 5.39/6.J.
bandspread condenser. The condenser
used in the original is an old Gecophone,
revamped for a maximum of 35mmfd.,
with two stator and one rotor plate,
double-spaced. These old condensers
have built-in vernier tuning, and are
particularly smooth in action.
Alternatively a 40mmfd. Raymart can
be used with a planetary drive carrying
a plain dial.
The I.F. stage is a 6K7 (or 6D6) using
the small inexpensive 465 kc. iron-core
I.F.Ts., the primaries of which are de-
coupled as shown. A 50,000-ohm poten-
tiometer takes care of I.F. gain and gives
complete signal cut-off when wanted.
This is the only actual volume control,
manual operation of the 50mmfd. tuning
condenser in the grid of the EK2G being
an extra. With the high conversion gain
of the mixer-oscillator combination, the
second detector needs to handle a large
grid swing, and the 6C5 as anode bend
detector does this.
If grid-leak detection with the popular
cathode regeneration scheme is used, there
will be overloading on strong signals, and
most signals are very strong with this
receiver. A separate 8.F.0. is thus neces-
sary for C.W., and this is the usual
electron-coupled triode with very small
coupling to the grid of the detector. The
capacity consists of two insulated wires
running parallel in insulating sleeving for
about jin. 8.F.0. units can now be pur-
chased ready-made, but the one used
here consists of a Sirufer core with 102
turns of 36 D.S.C. tapped at 30 turns
from ground, and tuned by a 35mmfd.
compression condenser. A 0.00025 mica
ceramic condenser is shunted across to
bring the range to the vicinity of 465 kc.
The unit is easily made up in an old
I.F.T. can.
With the 6V6G output on a Rola per-
mag. 12in. speaker, the volume is more
than comfortable for average require-
ments. Not shown in the diagram is a
switch in the plate feed to the 8.F.0. to
cut this valve out when not required.
S.W. in the 250-volt plate supply to the
receiver is the On-Off switch to cut the
receiver when On transmission.
Coil Details.
Coils for the R.F. stage are: Ten
metres, five turns 14 enamelled copper,
lin. diameter, self-supporting, and tapped
half-turn from ground ; 20 metres, lin.
diameter coil, 11 turns 22 enamelled
copper, spaced and tapped half-turn
from ground ; 40 metres, lin. diameter
coil, 24 turns 26 D.S.C., spaced diameter.
Fig. 5.—A close-up view of the switched
regenerative R.F. stage, added to the
receiver. The 80-metre coil is not in-
cluded in this view.
of wire and tapped half-turn from
ground ; 80 metres, coil, 35 turns
26 D.S.C., close-wound and tapped one
turn from ground.
Mixer and Oscillator Coil Data.
Wire
Band. Coil. Size. Turns. Lengths. Tap.
3.5mc. ..LI 22 35 close-wound
L 3 22 2.5 „
L 4 22 25 tin. 17
L 5 22 5 close-wound
7mc. ..LI 18 20 lin.
L 3 22 2 close-wound
L 4 18 13 lin. 6
L 5 22 3 • close-wound
14mc. ..LI 18 11 lin.
L 3 22 2.5 close-wound
W 18 7 lin. 2.4
L 5 22 2 close-wound
28mc. ..LI 18 5 lin.
L 3 22 2.5 close-wound
L 4 18 3.6 lin. 1.3
,7? 22 1.4 close-wound
All coils diameter. Spacing between
coils on same form approximately |in. Band-
spread taps are measured from bottom (ground)
end of L 4. All coils are wound with enamelled
wire.
L 3 in these specifications refers in each
i ange to a plate feedback coil if used
with the mixer, where such a receiver
may be constructed minus the R.F. stage.
Fig. 2 shows the method of winding
coils tor mixer and oscillator, the mixer
coils being shown with the feedback
an aer i & l coil if desired.
With the R.F. amplifier the mixer coils
specifications will be for LI minus the
other windings.
With these details there is little else
needed to enable duplication of this re-
ceiver. Chassis size and layout are
matters for individual taste; the illustra-
tions show clearly the method adopted
by the writer. Ceramic sockets are used
throughout and all tuning controls are
mounted on the front panel. Single signal
selectivity can be introduced by the
simple dodge of making the I.F. stage
regenerative. This is done by connecting
a flex wire from the grid of the I.F. valve
and pushing as much as is needed into a
hole in the second I.F.T. Advancing the
gain control will produce oscillation. The
edge of this condition will sharpen things
materially on C.W. reception. Normally,
however, the receiver is quite selective
enough and regenerative I.F. is not
needed.
Without any screening other than the
interstage partitions shown, it is easy with
this receiver to operate duplex telephony
transmission on the same band, with a
station removed only a few kilocycles and
the receiver right alongside the trans-
mitter. It is a useful design and well
worth inclusion in any operating room
where amateur bands are the primary
consideration.
D. B. K.
Radio Amateurs and Defence.
A move is at last being made to utilise
the services of radio amateurs in defence
communications—largely along the lines
here suggested in B. 8/2/’39. The Air
Board has instructed C.A.F. radio officers
to go ahead with the organisation of a
special voluntary R.A.A.F. wireless re-
serve, in which a total of 150 amateurs
will be enrolled. These men, who will
be trained in all phases of radio com-
munication for co-operation with aircraft
under war conditions, should not be hard
to find, but they will need to be chosen
on the merits of operating proficiency.
Unfortunately not all amateurs are first-
class telegraphists—some have confined
their activities solely to telephony. What
little telegraphic ability they must have
possessed at the time of sitting for the
A.O.C.P. has in many cases been lost.
Proof of ability is easily decided by a
reasonable Morse receiving and trans-
mitting test.
On the lines of the British reserve,
the new reserve will, in an emergency,
be mobilised immediately as a special
section of the air defence service. One
aspect of such communication that is
worthy of consideration is the important
one of ultra-short-wave co-operation.
Amateur stations taking part in the re-
serve scheme could provide a very effec-
tive u.-s.-w. relay chain, linking with the
R.A.A.F. control adjacent to the metro-
politan areas. Such a link would be a
valuable subsidiary by reason of its semi-
secret nature. An enemy operating off
the coast would have little difficulty in
decoding service traffic handled on the
many short-wave channels, but with
directive u.-s.-w. transmissions from point
to point and the more or less optical
nature of these frequencies eavesdrop-
ping would be almost impossible. Rich-
mond could thus be in direct communica-
tion with reserve stations at key positions
on the coastline of Sydney, with a
channel free from fading, static and un-
wanted observation.
At all times of the day or night a
perfect telephony-telegraphy channel is
used at present between the writer’s ex-
perimental station and an amateur
located in the Blue Mountains, using
the 56mc. channel. The distance is over
50 miles, with reliability far ahead of
lower frequencies. This is done by the
use of correctly-designed equipment at
both ends, ancient type super-regenerative
receivers and modulated self-excited oscil-
lators being supplanted by special super-
het receivers and stable transmitters,
easily achieved with available modem
valves. Such equipment puts u.-s.-w.
communication in an entirely new
category. There are amateurs with such
u.-s.-w. experience and equipment in
addition to their usual short-wave activi-
ties whose services should be valuable
in a defence scheme. If the authorities
need proof of the efficiency of modern
u.-s.-w. equipment the writer’s station is
one of several which may be observed
in communication on 56mc. at any time.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
Although 56mc. transceivers may bring
happy results on field days, they are too
limited in range and reliability for use
in home locations. Low-power trans-
mission gear can be amply stabilised even
when self-excited by using the Jones-
type oscillators with very high C and
little L, and work should proceed along
such lines for those not disposed to tackle
multi-stage transmitters. As for receivers,
a superhet converter as used with
the present amateur band superhet at
VK2NO will do almost as good a job
as the self-contained 56mc. superhet.
The design in B. 11/1/ ’39 is recom-
mended.
Bill Conklin, “Radio’s” associate
editor, one time W9FM and now
W9BNX, has been making comparisons
with valve types for R.F. gain at u.-h.-fs.
In comparing an acorn and an 1851 on
28mc. and 56mc., the acorn operated
with good stability, while there was
trouble with oscillation in the 1851. The
reverse has been the experience of the
writer. Two special u.-h.-f. superhets
using the 1851 as T.R.F. amplifier ex-
hibited not the slightest trace of in-
stability, even with aerial load removed.
This is with the valve employed with
grid tapped down the coil. Signals are
measurably louder with the 1851. The
late Ross Hull recently found that signal
generator tests on an acorn valve and a
6KB as converters indicated more gain
from the 6KB. Two valve laboratories
have suggested that results of this nature
may indicate regeneration in the 6KB.
The 6JBG (used in the new 2NO u.-h.-f.
superhet) has attractive conversion
characteristics at relatively high fre-
quencies.
This converter valve, with 1851 ahead,
does such, a good job with a 1600 kc. I.F.
channel that strong signals can overload
the second detector, and everything needs
to be shut down to be comfortable. This
is the case particularly when listening to
the simultaneous 42.3mc. 2CH Sydney
transmissions from an A.W.A. experi-
mental transmitter. No aerial is needed
on the receiver with I.F. gain control
fully retarded. Reproduction quality at
this frequency with the 1600 kc. I.F.
channel is excellent. Plenty of “front
end” gain is needed in a u.-h.-f. superhet
to make a noise silencer effective, and
it is used in the new receiver to be de-
scribed in the near future.
VK2NO.


LYS
PROOF,
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
El
* I
«/* v - V
*-»«-<•"'" *>
mmeM 4 .
LiiS
a£~«
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON’T WORRY. I’M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Merino and S. Africa.
“Ghanam”: W. J. Spafford,. S. Aus-
tralian Deputy Director of Agriculture,
who visited various wool countries a
couple of years ago, has a word to say
on the export embargo on merinos.
S. Africa, he points out, imported Aus-
tralian merinos from 1885 to 1929 —
Tasmanian, Wanganella and S. Aus-
tralian chiefly. They did not blend into
a regular S. African type. He adds: —•
Were the embargo on the exportation of
the Australian merino lifted an improve-
ment in the flocks of the Union could be
anticipated, because much of the advance-
ment in type of merino in recent years has
resulted from the use of Australian rams,
and stud-breeders have based their methods
and types on Australian standards... .All
would like to import Australian rams again
as sires. Could the better-class studs be
improved and something approaching a
type fixed it would not take breeders long
to improve their flocks appreciably, for
there are plenty of specially-selected flock
rams of quite good quality bred in the
country.
The weakness of the S. African wool
industry seems to lie largely in the fact
that it has always been mainly a small
man’s business —small studs and. small
flocks, and all handled by native labor.
Whatever may be said against the big
squatting companies of Australia, there
is no doubt that they did an enormous
amount of good in making for compara-
tive uniformity of types among our
sheep.
Drought and Parasites.
“Bungaree”: While it might be ex-
pected that the long dry spell which
has caused swamps to shrink and dry
would mean less trouble from liver fluke
and black disease, the reverse is the
case. When grass is scarce and dry sheep
are forced to penetrate deeper into the
swamps for a bite of green, and fluke
snails are picked up wholesale.
Sheep in black-disease areas must be
inoculated, whether the weather is wet
or dry. They should, too, be kept
moving to fresh pastures to get rid of
the sources of infection—the parasites
already within the sheep. In M.L. it is
almost impossible to clear up worm-
infested paddocks because of the steady
rainfall. The dry spell on this side will
ensure that worm eggs will be reduced
to a minimum life period. If drenching
were thoroughly and systematically car-
ried out now so that the worms them-
selves would be expelled from the sheep,
the animals would need less attention
for a long time to come.
For stomach and intestinal worms, the
drench recommended by the C.S. and
I.R. is bluestone and nicotine sulphate.
It pays to buy them separately and mix
with water as required. Carbon tet.
(double strength) will deal with liver
fluke and stomach worms but will not
reach the black scour worm that does
most of the current damage. The best
plan is to drench alternately with carbon
tet. and nicotine sulphate and bluestone,
but for two-tooths and younger sheep
the best results will be had from the
nicotine drench.
Export Mutton.
“K.Mc.”: Growers are not solely re-
sponsible for the adverse comments on
the quality of our export mutton and
lamb. They are not to blame if carcass
butchers ship meat below standard
quality, nor are they at fault if dressing
arid grading are not up to the mark.
However, they have erred (B. 8/2/’39)
in subordinating mutton quality to wool
growth. But the increase in imports of
high-quality sheep of British breeds and
the rapid increase in the number of new
studs registered promise better things
in the future.
Though the Southdown is the pre-
eminent sire for export lambs, too many
breeders are packing longer-stapled and
“ Lookin' for Bogan's Gully? Just follow this road.
stronger wool on the sheep, resulting in'
coarser-grained mutton.
The true Southdown fleece is fine,:
short and very dense.
Rug or No Rug?
“Ghanam”: A number of well-known
N.S.W. graziers have rushed to defend
rugging against the Agricultural Depart-
ment’s statement that it is “of very little
economic value.”
Frederick McMaster, says that in his
experience on Dalkeith nothing better
promotes the growth of wool on young
sheep. Rugs have so completely wiped,
out a lot of troubles to which young rams
are subject that they have come to sta>(
as a feature of Dalkeith husbandry.
And Chris Lodge, of Ellerslie, out near
Forbes (N.S.W.), which has had an un-
usually dry season, declares that there is
no doubt about results, and that rugged
ewes “could be sold as prime with lambs
at foot.”
Inflamed Eyes in Sheep.
“Lam”: In big flocks little can be
done for the effects of wind and grit on
the eyes of sheep, but inflamed eyes can
make a lot of trouble and should be
handled promptly in smaller flocks.
Place affected sheep in a paddock by
themselves and try to remove any grit. A
swab with boracic mixture or salt and
water pays. If the eyes are badly in-
flamed, smear the eyelids with boracic or
zinc ointment. ■ Another good mixture is
xoz. zinc sulphate to 1| pints of boiled
rainwater. It can be kept bottled for
emergency.
Drought on the Darling.
“Jeb”: It is a long time since the
country along the Darling has had so bad
a time as this year. Out by Bourke the
land has been withered to a powder by
successive weeks of temperatures over
lOOdeg. And before the heat-wave some
of it had seen only 7in. or Bin. of rain
in a couple of seasons. Some stations
are carrying only about a sixth of their
normal sheep, and on others numbers are
down to a quarter. Many properties have
been feeding for over a year, and some
for two years. Clips everywhere are
light. Lambings in some places have
been given a bye.
This is country ,in which it is almost
impossible to provide full drought pro-
tection. But it should be feasible to de-
velop a scheme which wifi assure that
there will always be a year’s fodder, ready
for use. The time to organise, it is when
fodder is cheap nearer the coast.
Cultivating Saltbush.
“J. Want”: Old man. saltbush.needs to
be treated with a good deal more respect.
It* establishes itself well-, sending down a
deep root, and it is a poor drinker. It
likes a sand or loam, and once it settles
down it takes more than an axe to kill it.
It likes natural manure, but finds super,
too artificial a diet. Its feed value is high.
There are seyeral varieties of saltbush,-
but the old man (Atriplex nummulciria)
is easily the best of them. It grows
almost man-high, and it is not hard to
propagate.
Plough the ground in Bft. or 10ft.
strips about a chain apart and harrow
down two or three inches. About April,
but not later than mid-May, broadcast at
the rate of 51b. seed to the acre and
harrow in lightly. Keep sheep away from
the area until the plants are well estab-
lished. .
A good idea is to plant along a fence ;
tall saltbush makes a good windbreak.
Apart from seed, it will grow readily
from cuttings. Leaves should be removed
before the cuttings are placed in the
ground.
Zinc for Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: Sulphate of zinc, combined
with super., as fertiliser for wheat crops is
advocated by the Victorian Agricultural
Department, especially on self-mulching
black soil of the Western Wimmera type.
As early as 1936, it is claimed, zinc
gave substantial increase in yields on
checked plots. Farmers gave it a trial on
fairly extensive scale last year, but the
drought washout of crops nullified the
experiments. The cost is 3d. a pound,
and 151 b. per acre is applied with super.
The N.S.W. Department co-operated
with a Narrabri district farmer in experi-
ments with zinc sulphate last year, with-
out useful results in yields. Further tests
are to be made.
Zinc is one of the mineral elements
essential to the growth of plants, but
usually soils contain ample. The N.S.W.
Director of Agriculture, A. H. McDonald,
considers the possibilities of zinc are
limited to special soil types.
High Wheat Yields.
“Yarrunga”: The Victorian-bred
wheat Baldmin gave the remarkable yield
of 52 bushels per acre in the season’s
variety trials at Wagga (N.S.W.) Ex-
periment Farm. The plots were on well-
prepared land which had not previously
grown cereals, and the yields as a whole
were up to the normal average, despite
the dry conditions that adversely affected
crops in the district.
Tried out on several farmers’ experiment
plots in the N.S.W. middle-west, Baldmin
was well among the higher yields in such


THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The United” is an Australian Institution.
A, C. DAWSON,
U«n. Maiiagt-r.
T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Vast* Gen. Manager.
82891
Hv
&
/■*
S?
*
MU
&
1 **
I f
- 1
§sa!
Jt* **v*T Jk. y
r/?y 4 DERBY TOP THIS SUMMER.
Probably different from the type you already wear, but extremely smart and
comfortable. Special imported single soles of heavy Continental 'sole leather.
Stocked in full and half sizes in Black or Brown Calf. Price 37/6
Write for a Catalogue.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe .’*•
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS,” SYDNEY.
GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & Co. Ltd., SYDNEY
Incorporated. 1893 in Victoria.
We offer you the best facilities for the selling of your CLIP on the
SYDNEY MARKET—the WORLD’S BEST organisation for the sale of
WOOL.
Our 90 years of experience enable us to give you efficient SERVICE in
the sale of your WOOL, STOCK and PRODUCE.
WE ARE READY to help you with advice or finance, and invite you to
call and see us regarding your needs.
OUR MERCHANDISE DEPARTMENT can supply anything you require.
Telegrams: GOLDSBRO.
Box 484aa, G.P.CX, Sydney.
■Hi
ii' *
■
mi m
1 .xvC;."
.
•w MFmMM m
'■' > r> >
i I
*•!
■
■
mm
m m
«
11
n 1
:
mm
mm
111
I
!i
ii
■
ii
...
'/*
mMBBk
}, ■■
0
3n
. Hi
B 1
m
■I
■
Mg§
m
m
0
&
4
mm
■■HI
■
*
hi
■
1
■
■
H
m
m
mm
I**
■
lilP
O
■
HI
Hi
; :x>: >:• l|i||
: m
: :.-■■■ ■
mi
I
H
I
1K22
MSf®
■
ft
«
H
On the basis of a 6 bag yield, your working costs
for producing a bushel of wheat with a LANZ
BULLDOG IS ONLY at the most, including
all fuel, oil, grease, etc., for six workings. This is
not merely an assumption, but can be backed by
the 2,000 odd LANZ BULLDOG OWNERS in
Australia.
You cannot increase the
price of wheat, so bal-
ance your budget by
buying a LANZ BULL-
DOG and reducing your
cost of production.
dsf
BULLDOG
DISTRIBUTORS:—
New South Wales:
Tractors & Machinery
Pty. Ltd.,
131-133 Palmer Street,
Svdnev
Victorias
K.L. Engines & Tractors
Pty. Ltd.,
304-308 Spencer Street,
Melbourne
South Australia:
Waymouth Motor Com-
pany Limited,
42 Waymouth Street
Adelaide
Queensland:
General Farm Machinery
Ltd.,
134 Albert Street,
Brisbane
Western Australia*
Kelly & Lewis (W.A.)
Pty. Ltd.,
William & Forbes Streets,
Perth
centres as Nubingerie, Yeoval, Dubbo,
Toongi, Eugowra, Gilgandra, Balladoran
and Narromine. Although it topped the
list in only one of these districts, the
Victorian ranged to bushels. Still,
Baldmin is “highly susceptible to
smut and susceptible to stem rust”; so
its high yields may not ensure its reten-
tion in the official list of “varieties
worthy of further trial.”
Hints for the Farm.
“Jumbuck”: After dipping sheep for
lice care should be taken when returning
them to the paddocks. If overheated, the
pores of the skin open and deaths from
arsenical poisoning are apt to occur
through the dip mixture in the wool
entering the system. Dip early and allow
the sheep to remain in the shade until
the cool of the evening.
“Bovis”: Where cows fail to come into
season, try once a day 60gr. sulphate of
iron, 60gr. nux vomica (powdered), 200 gr.
Peruvian bark and sgr. potassium iodide
mixed with food. Ten to fourteen days
should see the end of the treatment.
“Argon”: Before throwing super-
phosphate bags away place them around
shrubs or trees and let the rain wash
what good is left in them to the roots.
“Bog”: Get green stuff for fowls by
sprouting wheat between wet bags until
the shoots are about a quarter of an
inch long. Or dig up a plot in the run
and plant grain. Make a low, fine net-
ting frame to put over it The fowls
can peck the tops of the plants as they
come through the netting without in-
juring the roots.
“Mullengah”: Plant a few roots of
Kikuyu to establish a “colony” from
which cuttings can be obtained to plant
larger areas. Kikuyu is a quick grower,
stands dry weather better than most
other grasses, and is palatable when
paspalum is on the decline. Plant Kikuyu
to stop erosion and gulleying on hilly
country. Don’t plant it in or near culti-
vation paddocks.
“Lachlan”: Early sowings of oats in
combination with wheat should begin
towards the end of March, a month
ahead of the wheat. Old ideas of oat
manurial practice have undergone a good
deal of change. In north-west N.S.W.
super, is no longer used for wheat, but
in the drier western areas to one
acre gives results. In more favored dis-
tricts (20in. rainfall or better) icwt.
super, and icwt. sulphate ammonia has
become the standard on stubble, and
841 b. super, on fallow.
“Yeno Ham”: Don’t let winter pas-
tures grow too high, as some of the
undergrowth will partially decompose
and may result in cream taint when eaten
by cows. Keep the pastures cut or grazed
to a maximum height of Bin. When
mown, conserve the grasses and clovers
as hay or silage.
“Rasher”: Sows need abundant sus-
taining food from the time of farrowing
till the suckers are weaned. Give skim
milk three or four times daily. Starved
sows mean weedy and unsound weaners.
“Ekib”: Make pig yards big enough
to allow Dennis plenty of exercise. Free
run is best except in final stages of fat-
tening, when exercise can be restricted.
Graze in paddocks when possible—it’s
far more healthy. If yards are used,
spell them by ploughing or digging, and
sow a crop of greenstuff or roots (tur-
nips, mangolds, etc.) after liming. When
the crop is up, return the pigs to the
yard and treat the vacated area in the
same way to cleanse and sweeten the soil
and reduce feeding costs.
“Zedo”: A writer in Brisbane
“Courier-Mail” has produced a table
which shows the startling year-by-year
decline of pastoral values in central and
south-western Queensland. In 1924-25,
with average greasy prices round 25.7 d.,
properties were selling on a basis of over
£3 per head ; near Cunnamulla round £4
a head. Last year, the average figure was
nearer to £2 a head, with wool at 11.9 d.
The prices, of course, include leasehold
rights and improvements. Taking into
account drought losses and loss of
natural increment, it seems as if the sheep
industry in Queensland alone has dropped
£10,000,000 to £12,000,000 in capital
value through lower prices and droughts
during the past decade and a half.
“Ghanam”: Wool going out before
artificials, is it? Not in the U.K. Last
year imports of merino jumped from
362,314,0001 b. to 452,000,0001 b., and all
wool imports from 782,987,0001 b. to
882,000,0001 b. Australia comes an easy
first with 366,271,0001 b. Little Maori-
land is second with 198,019,0001b.—m0re
than the whole British import from S.
Africa, Argentina and Peru put together.
“Zedo”: Latest development in slug
cures is the solid spirit fuel metaldehyde,
powdered and mixed at the rate of four
grammes to one quart dry bran, plus about
1 pint of water to lib. of bran. Two
square yards thinly treated yielded 214
slugs in one test-plot in a night. The bait
will last for six weeks. Larger-scale
operation in an infested plot gave kills
up to 70,000 slugs per acre. Birds don’t
seem to suffer. It should be worth try-
ing out in our fluke districts. What a
slug relishes a snail will usually eat.
“X.N.”: The Meat Board’s All-
Australian Baconer Competition in De-
cember attracted only 11 entries, all
from S.A. and Queensland. It was won
by the S.A. Inspector-General of Hos-
pital’s farm at Bedford Park, with King-
ston pig farm (Q.) second. In the
porker competition there were only 15
entries, and Queensland took the first
five places, sharing the fifth with a lone
N.S.W. entry. The remaining 10 entries
were half from Bananaland and half
from S.A. Can’t they breed pigs in the
other States?
“Zedo”: The Cawthron Institute
(M.L.) has practically given up the
('Continued on page 44)


MODERNISES A BEDROOM
' ' “i . '.
3
eZg.
r)
<*
i!
•*£
Ssl
It was a bedroom of the dear dead days;
out-moded; over-"decorated"; fussily ceil-
inged, cracked; as to walls. Pasee.
V''
If
if
r
r&A
“There's only one answer," said Builder
Brown, gazing on ancient plaster, cracks,
holes and snabbiness. “Cane-ite right away!"
"The more limited your budget, the
more you'll appreciate the infinite
possibilities of modernising with
Cane-ite. I can quote you an attrac-
tive price for re-vamping a room
or a home because Cane-ite itself
is economical and because a Cane-
ite job can be done quickly as
well as faultlessly. By modernising
with Cane-ite you get rooms which
are PEACEFUL as well as comfort-
able. Cane-ite deadens sound just
as effectively as it neutralises ex-
tremes in temperature . . and it
lends itself to every jp-to-date de-
corative scheme under the sun."
BUILDER BROWN
Transformation! In came the handy-
sized, easily-worked, white-ant-proofed
Cane-ite sheets. Insulation and decora-
tion began in one inexpensive operation.
Cane-ite walls and ceiling . . the walls
colour-washed in delightful graded blue
. . the ceiling left in attractive natural
Cane-ite. A new room for an old!
•n
I
Your builder can achieve
further miracles of moderni-
sation with MASONITE, "The
Wonder Board of 1000 Uses."
Ask him about Masonite
Presdwood, Tempered Presd-
wood and Masonite Temprtile
. . grainless, steel-strong, non-
warping and ECONOMICAL
DISTRIBUTORS:
Dickson Primer & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
George Hudson Pty., Ltd.
A. C. Ingham Pty., Ltd.
Malley’s Limited.
Vanderfield & Reid, Ltd.
C AN E-ITE
THE CANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY
I THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY |
I LIMITED (Building Materials Division)* [
I Please send me sample and literature on I
J □ MASONITE □ CANE-ITE
i NAME I
■ ADDRESS I
* Mail to your nearest branch—Sydney, Melbourne, |
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. B-22-2 CA-3-9 I
Land Men /
Don’t be worried about Income Tax
“The Bulletin” has made arrangements with Mr. H. Rawson
Stevenson, the well-known accountant and taxation expert,
to publish
The Primary Producer’s Account Book
(Price £1),
Including the Preparation
of the Income Tax Return.
The Book has been specially designed to simplify the keeping of
accounts by the man on the land and to enable his income-t«j return
to be compiled.
All that is necessary is to enter the amount of income or
expenditure on the page indicated in the index of the book—
Ringbarking—Wages Page 39
Rations .. . . . • . • . . . . • . » 15
Sheep bought . . » 20
Wire netting » 61
and so on.
There is a page for every item.
When completed, send the book to H. Rawson Stevenson, 12
O’Connell Street, Sydney, and your taxation return will be
prepared free of further charge by experts in such a way as to
reduce your tax to the lowest limit consistent with the law.
The book will be sent back to you with income-tax return as
soon as prepared.
GET YOUR COPY AT ONCE IN PREPARATION
FOR THE 1939 INCOME TAX RETURNS.
Send your cheque for 20/-, plus exchange, to
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY., LTD.,
252 George Street (Box 252 IBB). Sydney,
and your account book w 11 be forwarded to you.
FREE!
WE WILL
YOU A
SEND
FREE
SAMPLE OF RE-NU LIQUID NU-METAL.
It Reconditions Cars, Trucks, Tractors,
Buses, Motor Cycles, Standing Engines,
etc., While-U-Drive. Just deposit thru
spark plug openings on Pistons. Saves
Re-bore. Ends Piston Slap, Rattles, Oil,
Petrol Waste, Buying New Parts. Restores
New Compression Power, Top Speed, Zip,
etc. Guaranteed good for 10,000 miles.
Harmless finest engine. Anyone can use
it. Trial Tube 6/6. We send C.O.D.
Re-Nu Coy., op. Richmond Station, Mel-
bourne. Twenty other lines. Agents
required. Free samples.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
FROM FACTORY^nHaKEiaN
Fresh • Fragranf
TOBACCO
AT NEW LOW PRICES/
Smokers !
DO YOU WANT GOOD
VALUE AND QUALITY?
Then figure on these beautiful smoking blends
that give that extra satisfaction and coolness
which makes all the difference. Made from the
finest Empire-grown leaf.
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct from the
manufacturer to you.
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE CUT.
Per lb
First crop, mild
All British, mild . .
Riverhead Gold, medium
Old Peter, medium
Cavendish, strong
Beech Nut, medium
Africa, mellow and mild
Soldiers’ Own, mild
Normandie, medium . .
Winning Post, medium . .
Three Bells, strong
Bird’s Eye, medium
Latakia, in pipe only . .
White Lodge, medium . .
White Lodge, light
Barlock Flake, light and dark
Cahills, medium
Union Leader, medium . .
Tender Leaf, medium . .
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/3
6/9
6/9
7/3
7/9
8/-
8/-
8/-
10/-
10/-
11/-
8/6
10/9
11/-
11/-
8/-
6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
‘Clinker,” mild • • • •
‘Skipper,” medium . . " V/r
‘Big Hit,” strong . . • • •/®
‘Three Sailors” • • • •
‘Royal Navy Nuggets” . . • • 7/o
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks . . 7/“
‘Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks . . 6/b
“P.M.” Dark Plug . . • • 6/ b
Zig Zags . . • • 5 for 1/-
Postage paid in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other States.
COMBINED GROWERS’
Tobacco Manufacturers Co. Lie-
-12 COMMERCIAL RD„ VALLEY, BRISBANE.
cinnabar moth as a ragwort destroyer.
It does a lot of damage, but not nearly
enough. The ragwort seed fly is, how-
ever, giving good results ; but it does not
attack plants, though it is a doughty seed
destroyer. Nobody yet knows what other
seeds it may destroy if a new climate
giyes it a healthy appeti te. Sodium
chlorate is still the favorite destroyer in
Maoriland, even though it has a long
way to go to be perfect.
“Gryllus”: A tiny black ant in count-
less numbers has made a nuisance of
itself this season in many houses in this
s.-e. Queensland locality. Its nests seem
undiscoverable, so that carbon bisulphide
or cyanogas cannot be used. Sprays and
dusting powders only deter the brutes
temporarily. Sponges soaked in sugared
water and dropped into boiling water
with their myriad feasters must have
killed millions, but millions more came
to the funeral. Then I tried a method
suggested by John Clarke, the W.A.
authority on ants, and for the last fort-
night we have been almost free of the
little pests. This is it: Boil together lib.
of sugar, Jib. honey, Jib. arsenite of
soda and one quart of water, and soak
small sponges in it when cool, to set
out as baits. The ants take the mixture
home to feed the queen and the royal
infants, thus scuppering the whole com-
munity in one operation. Keep it away
from children and animals and label it
POISON.
“Mookau”: Studmasters are evincing
an interest in polled beef cattle —26 bulls
and 52 polled Shorthorns were imported
from U.S.A., and there are 34 bulls and
99 cows in the first volume of the herd-
book, with 166 females in the foundation
section. A second volume is now to be
issued which will add about 300 more
animals. There’s Buckley’s chance of
competing with the Argentine in the
chilled trade while we stick to horned
cattle. Dehorning and polled breeding
should be universal
“Hortus”: The recent Chicago Grain
Show was a great advertisement for
NiS.W. wheat. Four entries won the
four awards in the white wheat class.
J. W. Wilson, Gilgandra, gained first
place with Flora. Runner-up was J. N.
Simson, Springside, with Pusa No. 4.
Then followed G. C. Pfitzner, Goolgowi
(Pusa No. 4), and H. V. Harvey, Dubbo
(Gular).
“Lam”: N. S. Wales Agricultural
Department recently summarised experi-
ments which show that once it gets a hold
skeleton weed can resist fortnightly culti-
vations for two years, and will even grow
from 3ft. 6in. down when grubbed to
that depth. The weed is one of the greedi-
est of nitrogen thieves. Where there is
even a medium infestation, increase in
nitrogen fertiliser brings results in grain
yield out of proportion to normal expec-
tation. The department has exploded
the theory that heavier seeding-down of
crops will combat weed. Medium dress-
ings of salt, which it was thought might
affect the weed but not wheat, proved
a failure. However, it has been found
that early to mid-season fast-growing
wheats can be grown on light to medium
s.-w. infested land, if sowing is properly
carried out and especially if there is an
early, quick harvest, as was the case in
many N.S.W. districts in 1938.
“J. Want”: Colac (Vic.) onion-growers
have been hit pretty hard by the
drought. There are only 6000 tons this
year against a normal 27,000 tons.
Growers claim that costs run as high
as £25 per acre, and that £2l per ton
is not a payable price. So they have
asked the Onion Board to “point out
the parlous position that faces growers,
thus preparing consumers for a further
rise in price.”
“Ek Dum”: There is talk in Mel-
bourne of the establishment of a pro-
tected flax industry. Actually, flaxen rope
was the first Australian agricultural
export—in 1797. And it was flax which
brought about proposals for opening up
Maoriland. Bigge, holding his inquiry
into N. S. Wales affairs in 1819-21, could
not take his mind off flax. Even in those
days the Australian product made by
Simeon Lord was accounted superior to
European.
“W.D.McC.”: Yes, Japanese millet (B.
1 /2/’39) makes good fodder. But “Araki”
is wrong in his methods. Millet will with-
stand dry weather as well as Sudan grass,
provided it is sown in a fine, well-worked
fallow. The ground should always be
rolled after sowing to ensure a firm seed-
bed. It is suicidal to graze off at 6in. in
height, for more than half of the crop will
be pulled out of the ground by the stock ;
the proper time either to graze or cut is
when it is just about to seed. I have
made many tons of good hay from millet
—cut at the seeding stage with a binder.
Sheaves should not be too big so that it
will dry out and make properly. One
season I fed ,80 head of cows for six
weeks on six acres of millet. It was fence-
high and as thick as it could stand. A
good plan is to sow a bushel of Algerian
or white oats with it.
“Sheepo”: But can “Noogoora burr
be got rid of cheaply by keeping it grazed
down by sheep whilst young” (B.
1/ 2 / ’39)? It was tried in Queensland
and proved a failure. Thousands of
acres of one-time sheep country had to
be fenced off and given over to cattle.
Poisoning was also unsuccessful. Out
the plants by the roots, rake into a heap
and burn when dry if you want to keep
Noogoora in check. Even then, no matter
how thoroughly the job has been done,
a nice young crop of Noogoora will in-
variably peep above ground after a heavy
fall of rain.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
From what countries can / import queen
bees ? Cost, and how long does it take them to
get here ? —2254.
From America, Italy, Yugoslavia, but not
from any country where Isle of Wight disease
exists. Time in transit would be about the
same as for other mail matter. Where there is
airmail it would pay to use it. Prices vary
according to quality; the American prices are
from 3s. 9d. to 11s. f.o.b. Pender Bros., of
West Maitland, N.S.W., import Carniolan and
Italian queens and redistribute them at £2
each. Bee journals publish names and ad-
dresses.


\
your own
PENGUIN
Jumbo, I uiorit
qive you
anij of mine'
%
r".
18
You know what an appetite
elephants have —they want the
lion s share always.
But elephants never forget, they
say, so perhaps this big fellow
once tasted Penguin Ice Cream;
no wonder he's greedy!
No one can forget the full
flavored creaminess of this NEW
ice cream—it is a delicious, rich
food.
Penguin
Jfw iJeST
ICE CREAM
A PRODUCT OF 3u N.S.W.FRESH FOOD Z ICE CO LTD.


COMING TO ENGLAND?
STAY IN THE HEART OF LONDON.
Choose wisely . . . the MAPLETON ... in
the midst of theatres and shops. 100 bed-
rooms, with bathroom and ’phone. Fully
licensed restaurant open till midnight. Special
terms for Overseas visitors. Details from
MAPLETON HOTEL,
COVENTRY STREET, PICCADILLY CIRCUS.
Cables: Bachflat, Lesquare, London.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors—James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F E Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FORRES. . .
With office s at London Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
ifflces throuKhout Seensknd and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leadino- Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the W orld,
" ,s Bank offers the full® t facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them,
although “worry” is hardly the word, f
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable >our
feet fed after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns a 6d. packet
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep—a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SUM*
6d per pacKet. Packed by Felton, Grunwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are ndt admissible.
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks typing work, used to handling MSS.;
will advise marketing literary material. —2489.
Gentleman, Sydney, journalistic, publishing
and organising exp., trustworthy and sober,
seeks position-, city or country.—24B7.
Employment wanted anywhere by returned
soldier, N.S.W., foreman on bridge and road
construction; own instruments for taking levels
and run traverses; has had full charge of
works employing up to 120 men; driver’s
license, inc. Diesel.—2424.
Words of recitations “Sheridan’s Ride” and
“The Shooting of Dan McGrew.” —2413.
Words of recitation “Sailor Bill Knocks Down
His Cheque.” —2416.
To buy History of Botany Bay, published by
The Bulletin about 50 years ag0. —2490.
Information Sought.
What were the chief provisions of naval
treaties in 1937 and 1938 to which Great
Britain was a party? —2435.
Under the Anglo-German and Anglo-Russian
Naval Agreements (1937) capital ships were
limited to a displacement of 35,000 tons, and
their guns to 16in. calibre. The provision de-
signed to preserve the distinction between capital
ships and “light surface vessels” (cruisers) and
make effective the agreed restrictions on the
latter is from 10,000 to 17,500 tons in dis-
placement, and from Bin. to lOin. in calibre of
guns. Aircraft carriers are limited to 23,000
tons and 6.lin. guns. Submarines are limited
to 2000 tons and s.lin. guns. In June, 1938,
a further agreeemnt was signed by representa-
tives of Great Britain, France, U.S.A. and Ger-
many limiting the calibre of guns in capital
ships to 16in., as before, but increasing the
permissive tonnage of 35,000 to 45,000 tons.
* * * *
Why is Einstein regarded as the originator of
the theory that, given tremendous velocity, the
front part of a body outruns the hinder part
and it becomes lengthened ? Though this was
not mathematically proved it was suggested at
least half a century before Einstein was heard
0f.— 2426.
Einstein has proved mathematically, appa-
rently to the satisfaction of the very few mathe-
maticians who can understand his equations,
that a body moving in space loses length in
ratio to its speed, and at the speed of light
(185,726.7 miles per second) has no length in
the direction of its movement. Can find no
record to the contrary theory to which you
refer.
# Jfc * *
I understand that English metallurgists have
discovered how to make silverware which does
not tarnish and that they arranged an exhibi-
tion of silver objects treated according to their
process at a meeting of the British Association.
What is the process ? —2432.
The process consists essentially of covering
the surface of the silver with an invisible
film of oxides of aluminium or beryllium.
These oxides are better known in their form
of sapphire and beryl, which are among the
hardest of materials. Thus the silver is pro-
tected by an invisible film of myriads of
minute sapphires or beryls, which are very
resistant to wear and tarnishing.
* * * *
(1) For how long have there been Poets
Laureate of England, and what is their salary ?
(2) Who have been Poets Laureate? —2429.
From time immemorial there were attached
to the Court poets and versifiers, including, it
is believed, Chaucer and Spenser, but Samuel
Daniel is the first to be accredited as Royal
Poet. From Ben Jonson’s time a fixed re-
muneration was paid of £lOO p.a., plus a
tierce of canary, Jonson’s favorite wine, the
latter commuted about the year 1800 to a
further payment of £27 yearly, and this is still
the official salary. (2) Samuel Daniel (1599-
1619). Ben Jonson (1619-37), Sir Wm. D’Ave-
nant (1637-68), John Dryden (1670-88), Thomas
Shadwell (1688-92), Nahum Tate (1692-1715),
Nicholas Rowe (1715-18), Rev. Laurence Eusden
(1718-30), Colly Cibber (1730-57), William
Whitehead (1757-1785), Rev. Dr. Thomas
Warton (1785-90), Henry James Pye (1790-1813),
Robert Southey (1813-43), William Wordsworth
(1843-50), Lord Alfred Tennyson (1850-92),
Alfred Austin (1896-1913), Robert Bridges
(1913-30) and John Masefield (appointed 1930).
sjc %. * *
Some details concerning Frank Mahony,
Australian artist and one-time contributor to
The Bulletin ? —2497.
Son of an Irish father and a Cornish mother,
he was born in Melbourne on December 4,
1862, and brought to Sydney when he was 10
years old. On leaving school he entered an
architect’s office, but much preferred attend-
ing Anivitti’s classes at the old Academy of
Art, and soon began to paint for a livelihood.
Most of his black-and-white work was done
for the Picturesque Atlas of Australasia and
The Bulletin and to illustrate volumes of
Australian verse and prose; the National Art
Gallery of N. S. Wales has three oil-paintings
by him. While his special excellence lay in
his treatment of horses, he dealt also with other
phases of bush life, and with Charles Conder
and Henry Full wood pioneered for artists the
Hawkesbury valley. For a time he was in-
structor to the Art Society of N.S.W.; failing,
however —mainly for personal reasons —to make
his art provide a living in Sydney, he migrated
about 1904 to London, where he lived for the
most part as a recluse and died in 1917. He
was buried in Hanwell cemetbry.
* * * *
Figures for all Stales and members of the
A.I.F. at the (1) 1916 and (2) 1917 Conscrip-
tion Referendums ? —2463.
(1) Referendum, October 28, 1916 —
State. For. Against. Informal.
N. S. Wales .. 356,805 474,544 27,050
Victoria .. 353,930 328,216 14,538
Queensland .. 144,200 158,051 7,670
South Australia 87,924 119,236 4,092
West Australia 94,069 40,884 5,695
Tasmania .. 48,493 37,833 1>905
Fed. Territories 2,136 1,269 63
Totals* .. 1,087,557 1,160,033 61,013
including 133,813 votes by members of the
A.1.F., of which 72,399 were for, 58,894 against
and 2520 informal.
(2) Referendum, December 20, 1917
State For. Against. Informal.
NS. Wales .. 341,256 487,774 24,864
Victoria .. 329,772 332,490 16,544
Queensland .. 132,771 168,875 8,518
South Australia 86,663 106,364 4,943
West Australia 84,116 46,522 4,955
Tasmania .. 38,881 38,502 f>4o9
Fed. Territories 1,700 1,220 82
Totals* ..1,015,159 1,181,747 61,315
* Including 199,677 votes by members of
the A.1.F., of which 103,789 were for, 93,910
against and 1978 informal.
* * * *
Biographical and bibliographical details con-
cerning E. S. Sorenson, Australian author? —
2481.
The son of Jacob Sorenson, of Norway, he
was born in 1869 at Dyraaba, near Casino
(N.S.W.). He was educated at Green Ridge
public school, and at the age of 14 was
apprenticed to a carpenter. He served for two
years, then followed stock-riding, farming,
dairying and droving in N. S. Wales and
Q’land, and gold-digging, shearing and wool-
classing in N. S. Wales. He was afterwards
secretary of a jockey club, then a publican.
He has been solely engaged in writing for a
considerable number of years. Publications in-
clude The Squatter’s Ward (1908), Quinton’s
Rouseabout (1908), Life in the Australian Back-
blocks (1911), Friends and Foes in the Aus-
tralian Bush (1914), Chips and Splinters (1919),
Spotty, the Bower Bird (1921), and Murty
Brown (1925).
* * * *
What were the seven wonders of the ancient
world ? —2496.
The Pyramids, Hanging Gardens of Babylon,
Tomb of Mausolus, Temple of Diana at Ephe-
sus, Colossus of Rhodes, Statue of Jupiter by
Phidias and Pharos Lighthouse of Alexandria.
* * * *
What is the McCullough formula for find-
ing the speed of a car? —2475.
To find the speed, in m.p.h., multiply the
engine r.p.m. by the diameter, in inches, of
the rear wheel. Multiply the result by
0.002975 and divide by the ratio. Example:
The engine speed is 1000 r.p.m., the diameter
of the rear wheels is 30in. and the ratio is
4 to 1. Therefore, 1000 X 30 X 0.002975
equals 89.25, which, divided by 4, gives 22.31
m.p.h.
* * * *
(1) How does a gas-producer operate ? (2)
If water were allowed to drip on to cold char-
coal, placed in a container, would sufficient
gas be generated to run a motor? —2377.
(1) The process of generating gas by means
of a gas-producer consists of passing air or a
mixture of air and steam through a bed of
burning coal, coke, charcoal or wood contained
in a suitable receptacle known as a generator.
The gas so generated then passes through a
washer and is drawn into the cylinder of the
engine by the suction of the piston. (2) No.
* * * *
Where and when and by whom was the
Order of the Companions of Honor instituted ?
What is the appearance of the badge of the
order, and how is it worn ? —2485.
This order was instituted by Kmg George V.
in 1917, and consists of the sovereign and not
more than 50 members. It may be conferred
on either men or women for having done con-
spicuous national service, and for whom the
distinction is deemed the most appropriate
form of recognition. It is an honor dissoci-
ated from acceptance of title or the classification
of merit. Recipients put the initials C.H.
after their names, these being placed next after
G.B.E. The badge of the order is a gold
medallion, oval in shape. Men suspend it round
their necks from a carmine riband 1£ inches
wide. Women wear it attached to a similar
riband tied in a bow on the left shoulder. It
is never worn in miniature.
*** • *
What States comprised the Confederacy at
the time of the American Civil War? —2479.
The Confederacy denoted the league of 11
States—South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida,
Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Texas, Virginia,
Arkansas, Tennessee and North Carolina
which seceded from the Union.
* * * *
What are. the chief conditions under which
the Western Australian Drama Festivals (Inc.)
is inviting authors to submit manuscripts of
full-length plays for production at its 1939
festival? —2488.
An inclusive royalty of £5O will be paid to
the author of the selected play for the right
to perform it on one or more nights during the
festival. The festival committee reserves the right
to perform any other entry upon payment of a
royalty of £5 ss. for each performance. Bona fide
residents in Australia for at least 12 months
prior to June 30, 1939, shall be eligible to
submit plays. Any play submitted shall be the
original work of the author submitting it, and
shall not have been performed in public or
published or broadcast. Manuscripts shall be
in the hands of A. J. Bishop, secretary, West-
ern Australian Drama Festivals (Inc.), Second
Floor, City Mutual Buildings, St. George s-
terrace, Perth, before May 31, 1939. The com-
mittee will announce its decision in Perth on
or before July 15, 1939. MSS. should be type-
written. Each play shall bear a pen-name and
shall be accompanied by a sealed envelope
inscribed with that pen-name and the title of
the play and containing the prescribed entry
form duly filled in. MSS. shall be accompanied
by an entrance fee of 2s. 6d. to cover cost
of return postage, etc.
**< * *
(1) How is Walter Woods rated among world
middleweights by American boxing experts?
(2) Where and when was Woods born, and
when did he begin boxing? (3) Has Woods
a good chance of beating Solly Krieger ?
2350
(1) As fifth-best. (2) Born New York City,
May 5, 1913, and began boxing in 1930. (3)
Krieger and Woods have already fought twice.
Krieger scored an eight-round knockout in
their first fight, but Woods outpointed Krieger
in 10 rounds the second time they met, and
many American experts predict another points
win for him in their third contest.
* * * *
Where are the four American heavyweights,
Dan (“Porky”) Flynn and Jim Barry, whites,
and Sam McVea and Sam Langford, negroes,
who fought each other in different parts of Aus-
tralia about 26 years ag0? —2473.
Flynn is a member of the police force in
Boston, Mass.; Barry was killed in a brawl at
Panama towards the end of 1916. McVea
died in New York from influenza in 1918;
Langford is still living in New York, where,
although almost blind, he conducts a shoe-shin-
ing parlor.
* * * *
(1) Results of Test cricket matches between
Australia and South Africa ? (2) Highest in-
dividual score by each side? (3) Biggest in-
nings, and where played? —1804.
(1) Tests played, 24; Australia won 18,
South Africa one, drawn five. South
Africa’s win was by 38 runs at Adelaide
in 1910-11, the scores being Australia 465
and 339, South Africa 482 and 360. (2) Brad-
man (Australia) scored 299 not out at Adel-
aide in 1931-32; A. D. Nourse, jun. (S.
Africa), scored 231 at Johannesburg in 1935-36.
(3) Australia’s 528 at Sydney in 1910-11 is the
highest single innings total in the series of Tests.
* * * *
What were the bowling figures of Spofforth,
Boyle and Palmer in the 1880 Australian XI
team in England? Who got the other wickets
on the tour ? —1979.
Overs. Mdns. Runs. Wkts. Av.
Spofforth .. 1559.3 669 2018 391 5.16
Boyle .. 1463.3 631 1850 250 7.40
Palmer .. 1744.2 818 2103 268 7.84
Alexander (38), Bannerman (13), Moule (4),
McDonnell (3) and Murdoch (1) shared the
balance of the wickets.
* * * *
A dark-blue, patterned worsted suit has
become very shiny. Can the material be
restored ? —2385.
The method is tedious and may have to be
repeated if the material is much flattened. Hold
the shiny parts over a basin of boiling water,
or lay over them a folded towel wrung out of
very hot water; then with a stiff clothesbrush,
using a circular motion, brush up the nap until
it is rough. Then lay the parts face down on
a folded blanket or other rough woolly cloth,
and press with a moderately warm iron so that
the worsted is smoothed but not ironed flat,
the woollen cloth preventing the return of a
too-smooth surface.
* * * *
How to renovate fibrous-plaster ceilings which
have started to peel? —233B.
Have the ceilings cleaned off and scraped
if necessary, well sized and then kalsomined
or treated with a good cold-water paint. Peel-
ing is often caused by damp from above or
steam from below if there is any water-heating
or cooking done in the rooms. Such ceilings
are the cause of many complaints.
•it * * *
Can the fresh appearance of bananas used
for cake decoration and salads be retained ?
Usually they go brown. —2360.
You might try this: Glaze the bananas in-
stantly by cutting into the required shapes or
pieces and dropping them into a very strong
syrup made by boiling one pint of water and
one teacup of sugar for 10 minutes and slightly
cooling before use. Have this ready, immerse
the fruit, lay it out on greaseproof paper to
drain for a while, and then roll in white or
pink sugar. There is no guarantee that this
will be successful, as degree of ripeness is a
determining condition. Another glazing method
is to dip the pieces in a jelly mixture before it
has set, using half the quantity of water given
on the packets; the fruit should then be in-
stantly placed in an ice-chest or refrigerator.
*
Does Anybody Know?
Origin or derivation of the word “damper”
—the bread of flour and water without yeast
and baked in ashes by Australian bushmen?—
2434.
* * * *
Meaning of aboriginal word “Crowie”?—
2469.
Brief Answers.
H.E.: Write Richard Geraint, publisher,
79 Pitt-street, Sydney... .NJ.: Book has been
out of print for over 35 years. You may be
able to pick up a copy by advertising
L.J.L.: There are only two public libraries
in Sydney—the State Library, known as the
Public Library of N. S. Wales, which embraces
the Mitchell Library, and the Sydney Municipal
Library, in Queen Victoria Buildings, Market-
street. Both libraries recruit from graduates
and from those who have passed the leaving
certificate... .C.R.S.: grower who sells
wheat must support his claim for the bounty
payment by a certificate which can be obtained
from the local police or the local branch of
the Rural Bank... .L.G.: The collector value
of a United States cent dated 1860 is from
threepence to sixpence according to condition.
Cents of this date are listed in U.S.A. cata-
logues at from five to ten cents each according
to condition... .D.H.: From the information
furnished it is not possible to say whether a
pension will be payable, but a claim could be
made on the prescribed forms obtainable at any
post office. When complete, the claim should
be lodged with the nearest Registrar of Pensions
(Clerk of Petty Sessions), and it will receive
consideration... .D.C.: Particulars are given in
the Engineers’ Year-Book, edited by H. R.
Kempe. Further details may be had by writing
to the Southern Cross Windmill Co., 129 King-
street, St. Peters, Sydney J.S.: The Val-
paraiso earthquake occurred on August 16,
1906 (1000 deaths and 100 aftershocks in four
days). The Messina earthquake occurred on
December 28, 1908. It was accompanied by
a tidal wave and followed by fire. Deaths
to the number of 160,000 were mostly caused
by the earthquake A.A.: No satisfactory
figures available, as the records of crime and
criminal convictions are not standardised by
the various countries. Moreover, differing legal
systems add to the difficulty of obtaining com-
parable figures... .5.8.: (1) At Bowen along-
side the railway and within easy distance of the
jetty. (2) Capital £so,3s2—divided into £lO,OOO
issued capital at £1 per share, and 50,440 £1
r,hares paid up to 16s. (3) Average yearly rain-
fall for Bowen is 39.88 inches. (4) Wet season
from December to April, although showers on
Q’land coast are likely at any time. (5) 1925.
H.A.D.: St. Constant was sold for £l.
There was no contest.. . .R.H.: (1) No limit on
leading tracks. (2) 200 to 1....R.E.: When
they made their six consecutive centuries Fry
was 29 years and Bradman 30... .T.R.J.: Mc-
Cormick’s figures in S. Australia’s second
innings at Adelaide, March 12-16, 1937, were
11 overs, 1 maiden, 40 runs, 9 wickets. S.A.
team: Ryan, Walker, Whitington, Bradman,
Badcock, Hamence, Waite, Grimmett, Wil-
liams, Ward and Cotton. 21.6 overs were
bowled; Sievers got the other wicket for four
runs 8.D.: “United Australia Review,” 30
Ash-street, Sydney; monthly. It is edited by
S. P. McDonald E.P.G.: Yes, a play may
be entered E.W.S.: It could be effected by
advertisement, but the better course is to execute
a deed poll drawn up by a solicitor and file it
in the Registrar-General’s Department. The
cost should not exceed a couple of guineas....
A.H.G.: Before marrying again he must be
divorced from his previous wife. Desertion
without reasonable excuse during three years
and upwards is a ground for divorce in N. S.
Wales. No fixed costs; all would depend on
circumstances S.H.: A batsman can be out
from a no-ball through (a) run out, ( b ) hand-
ling the ball, (c) obstructing the field, (d) hitting
ball twice except in defending the wicket. A
batsman is out when bowled, but he has always
the right to appeal to the umpire—G.P.:
“Banjo” Paterson’s “There’s Another Blessed
Horse Fell Down” will be found in The Col-
lected Verse of A. B. (“Banjo”) Paterson,
obtainable from Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney. .. .S.W.: He is looking at a portrait of his
son T.J.L.: (1) Address all contributions
to the editor. (2) Yes. (3) Yes, provided hand-
writing is legible. (4) Ye5....A.M.: Ron
Oxenham’s bowling figures in Sheffield matches
are 1509.2 overs, 413 maidens, 3698 runs, 167
wickets, average 22.14; and in all matches of
the Indian tour 425 overs, 193 maidens, 828
runs, 101 wickets, average 8.19... .C. 8.:
Tripoli fell under Turkish domination in the
sixteenth century, and, though in 1711 the Arab
population secured some measure of inde-
pendence, the country was in 1835 proclaimed
a Turkish vilayet. In September, 1911, a
quarrel broke out between Turkey and Italy,
and the latter occupied Tripoli and established
an army there; afterwards Italy annexed the
country... .J.S.M.: There are British Consular
representatives at Coquimbo, Antofagasta,
Arica, Coronel, Iquique, Magallanes, Santiago,
Talcahuano, Tocopilla and other centres....
] A.: Theodore Roosevelt died in 1919, Wil-
liam H. Taft in 1930, Woodrow Wilson in
1924, Warren Harding in 1923 and Calvin
Coolidge in 1933... -EX.: Toe H was formed
during the World War; the name is from the
telegraphic abbreviation of Talbot House,
Poperinghe, a church institute named alter
G W. L. Talbot, a fallen officer.. . .K.S..
The English oriole belongs to quite a different
family from that of the American bird of the
same name. The former is of the family
Oriolidce, but the American belongs to the
Icteridce, closely allied to finches C.1.r.-
Write to any of the following: J. W. Brown,
31 Meek-street, Kingsford, Home Sanitation,
Ltd 56 Young-street, City, Montgomene-
Neiison and Co., 68+ Pitt-street, City, and
A C Tipping, 17 Jenkin-street, Crows Nest
—all Sydney E. 8.: Permanent Trustee Co.
of N.S.W., 25 O’Connell-street, Perpetual trus-
tee Co , 33 Hunter-street, Union Trustee Co.
of Australia, 2 O’Connell-street, and the Trus-
tees, Executors and Agency Co., 1 Bhgh-stree
—all Sydney....K.T.: The British Annua oj
Literature. '1938 (7s. 6d), obtainable from
Angus and Robertson, Sydney.. ..J.H.S.. iw
Argonaut Press, Empire House, 175 Piccadilly.
London W.l E. 8.: President Wilsons
Fourteen Points will be found in the Encyclo-
pedia Britannica under “World War.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
WEEK BY WEEK
SHE REDUCED
Rheumatism Went, Too—
Thanks to Kruschen
Fat and rheumatism are twin troubles. As
they arise from the same source, it is only
natural that they should yield to the same treat-
ment. In the following letter a woman tells
how Kruschen Salts took off 42 lbs. of fat and
brought her relief from muscular rheumatism:
“Eighteen months ago I weighed 12 stone
4 lbs. I also had rheumatism very badly in
the muscles of my arms and got palpitation
after exercise. I saw Kruschen Salts adver-
tised and thought I would try them. To-day I
weigh 9 stone 4 lbs., my rheumatism has gone,
and I have no palpitation after exercise. No
dieting—just a teaspoonful of Kruschen in hot
water every morning. I could go on praising
Kruschen for ever.” —(Mrs.) V.R.
Overweight and rheumatic poisoning almost
invariably arise from the same source —
a system loaded with unexpelled waste, like a
furnace choked with ashes and soot. The six
salts in Kruschen assist the internal organs to
throw off each day the wastage and poisons
that encumber the system.- Then, little by little,
that ugly fat goes—slowly, yes, but surely.
THE
WOMAN S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
■paper published in the Common-
wealth. it features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
are given away free for a penny
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
T FT
r ATLAS >
CARRY THE
BURDEN i
¥
%
Established 1808.
Investments in Australasian Securities
Exceed £1,200,000.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPUING ST., SYDNEY.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
b **k
"EWsduh
111
™*ai£ s
"ic
/Uni
sr
ii
f wsouTH^ LCs :
Goulburn is an important centre, 137 miles from Sydney on the
main southern highway. The Bank of New South Wales opened
a branch in 1862, seven years before the railway reached there.
The City, with a population of fifteen thousand, serves a pros-
perous pastoral, agricultural and fruit-growing district, and is itself
an important manufacturing centre, numbering among its industries
woollen mills, flour mills, and brickworks.
For 77 years the Bank of New South Wales has played a vital part
in stimulating production and progress in Goulburn and its district.
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST AND LARGEST BANK IN AUSTRALASIA
323C.1939
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
E.F.: “This was very sad.” Very... .F.S.:
Flapper fodder... .1.W.: Doesn’t make a story.
V.M.M.: Promising... .K.T.: Don’t find
detective amusing... .M.M.: Couldn’t wade
through it....D.M.: Can’t follow it....
R.K.D.: Not up G.H.: “Dawn’s dewy
fingers” couldn’t pluck anything from the
accountant’s office... .H.G.: Neither; you’re
slipping into bellerdrammer... .S.Y.P.: Assays
very light M.J.L.: Not here C.C.:
Doesn’t stick....J.A.: Might make a par.
M.A.L.S.K.: It’s a long, long way away.
... D’A.N.: Longwinded... .E. 8.: Came close,
but it’s too gloomy... .A.H.: That one misses
0ut....8.J.: It’s an old 0ne....A.C.: Well
outside our pastures G. 8.: Undernour-
ished H.W.L.: Returning compliment....
G.C.L.: Ordinary... .N. 8.: “Misfire” did....
P.D.M.: An idea, but that’s all 5.H.8.:
Guff A.E.B. and M.L.: Might place them
elsewhere... .M.A.: Don’t fancy “A Dog’s
Death” M.C.: “A Match Trick” didn’t
come 0ff.... W.S.: Some of it reads we 11....
P.L.D.: We’re still mystified as to the identity
of murderer and sleuth... .L.P., J.F.R., V.T.,
A.E. and F.C.: Touch them up and try
dailies—N.F.: “What do you think of
these?” We don’t... .J.T.8.: “Where might
1 send this?” To someone you don’t like....
H.T.C.: Dropped “Hot Bricks”... .L.T.8.: Not
bad, but the end spoils it... .N.G.S.: Charac-
ters too sketchy... .M.R.: Well done, but it’s
old stuff 8.R.5.: They’re all right of thc.r
kind; try a monthly magazine 8.R.0.:
Nothing there... .D.S.P.: They’d probably
earn him good marks in the classroom, but
they’re no use beyond that... .L.C.F.: “Would
a series of these make a book?” Yes, if it
was titled “Mistakes to Be Avoided”
N.C.S.: Much too long for what’s in it
J. : Revise and try again L.F.8.:
“Panic” nothing to get excited about
K. : Dunno what you could do with them.
. ...L.8.R.: Interest too local J.F.H.: All
of them du11... .T.V.D.: Send essay on “The
Pleasures of the Cinema” to Sam Goldwyn.
K.B.F.: Argument weak and delivery
worse... .8.T.: You don’t know what you’re
talking about 8.L.5.: And when did you
see a mine with “automatic cages”?
T.L.Y.: That bevy of spooks is haunting the
basket... .L. 8.: Leave it to J. H. M. Abbott.
G.N.D.: Dreadful L.8.A.: Next time
you think, of a yarn like that forget it im-
mediately K.A.8.: “Just a sample of what
I can do.” Sorry, no orders... .H.F.R.: Try
something lighter H.8.F.: And you might
come again... .M.T.D.: Chastised Tillie and
sent her home R.W.: Heavy going-...
P.R.8.: Nothing for us, but others might
consider them... .G.E.M.: Still foggy as to
which patrol officer, if any, was killed; other
story still under consideration... .J.D.: The
human race has produced some truly wonder-
ful boneheads, but none to compare with the
hero of “The Runt”... .C.J.R.: Too obvious.
I.McA.: Unimpressive 1.M.N.: De-
tective story flat as yesterday’s beer....
A.E.Y.: Army doings don’t assay enough
laughs G. 0.: Penetrating child study, but
it tails off unsatisfactorily.. . .A.R.D.: Try it
on a magazine... .A.W.: Slips in the telling.
WEW.: Rocky R.A.: Blown out at
the finish.... F.T.M.: Stodgy. v .W.L.: Not
credible... .R. W. B.: Lightweight... .E. D.:
You’ll place it —elsewhere... .H.F.H.: Ana
“Mr. Pumsey” should find a berth... .AT.:
Misses....T.P.: Doesn’t get by at that length.
J.L.: Very nearly good enough....
E. Muddled.... R.R.: Too slight....
A.W.McC.: Needs to be above that t.a.q.
standard E.L.: Stories in diary form have
to be particularly well done; that one wasn t.
A.N.: Too luridly melodramatic....
R.P.: Nothing in it... .L.R.8.: Lacks punch.
M.P.: Has sincerity, but plot is a bit too
slender... .C.F.H.: Orphan yarn not up; other
held for another reading... .Telpher: Tour
failure to double-space your lines added
another nail to the coffin... . R.G.: No market
for that line anywhere; try something else
A.W.J.: “The Laughing Dog” put back on
the lead... .M. 8.: Nice style, but why drag
the Gyppo priest in? ... .T.K.: Sketches not
suitable.... W.D. Dialogue snappy, story
loose W.R.L.: One or two neat character
studies, but generally wearisome J.8.C.:
Contains some shrewd thrusts, but the in-
gredients are rather heavy... .F.N.: Fair, but
don’t think even the missing last page could
turn it in your favor.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
C.L.: Gent, appears to have been built out
of a pile of discarded concertinas K.D.:
Mountain-climber took a downward plunge
to bottom of w.p.b A.W.F.: Idea too com-
plicated... .J.8.N.: They’re all ancient....
R.S.H.: Humor is anaemic K.M.: We
wouldn’t give a packet of peanuts for the
six J.D.: Send it to Moscow A.J.8.:
Get more action into your pictures, also gags
that are fresh... .H.H.: The youngster’s work
is much too juvenile to judge—he should im-
prove considerably with lessons... .A.S.:
Nice, clean lines, but the layout is ugly
A.P.G.: The double-decker question-and-
answer gag has long gone out of fashion....
F. Not wanting schoolboy conundrums,
illustrated or otherwise... .R. 8.: We heard it
over the air the other night N.F.: It’s no
use sending us caricatures of notabilities who
are dead —we want the live ones D.J.8.:
Lamb-beef Pork-Lambeth Walk pun not very
funny; also, it already adorns scores of
butchers’ shop-windows... .L. 8.: More orna-
mental than humorous C.S.: Slapdash art
and pointless jest... .E.J.S.: Prepared to
believe that you’re self-taught; we don’t think
much of your teacher, by the way N.J.:
We admired the housemaid’s knees, but we
didn’t think much of her Cockneyisms....
G L : Placed the inquisitive postmistress out
of harm’s way D.W.: You might make an
excellent designer of dog kennels, but you’re
no comic artist H.F.: The whole staff
joined in counting that monstrosity 0ut....
N C S.: Received, large drawing of two silk-
worms... .A.M.C.: They bulge in the wrong
places and have legs like stovepipes....
E. 8.: It’s not as amusing as your friend
thought it was.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Feng-Shui”: Even if the cables from
China arc subjected to a 50 p.c. discount,
it still seems obvious that the Japanese
have indulged in a lot of unnecessary de-
struction in the Flowery Land. Yet the
chief characteristic of the Japanese on
normal occasions is a gentleness and
politeness carried to such extremes that a
son laughs when he tells you of his
father’s death for fear that his grief
might distress you. I once watched a
crowd of Japanese children picnicking
in the grounds of a monastery, and the
noise they made could not be heard above
the sighing of the pine-trees. The psy-
chologists, who love paradoxes, would
probably say that national aggressiveness
is the price paid for national politeness.
* * * *
Californian Senator Dawson, a
periodical visitor to Australia, has come
again, bearing two incontrovertible pro-
positions for interventionists, avengers,
crusaders and people who do think: —-
No President or Government could
entangle the United States in a military
alliance and survive.
The Orient will be for Orientals, who-
ever wins the China war.
Even people who do think will find the
second proposition indigestible. But sup-
pose Chiang Kai-shek and his legions
lived up to Stunt Press accounts of
their prowess, what would European
sovereignty in China be worth?
Sir Henri Deterding, the oil magnate,
was completely bilingual. In the midst
of an interview in English in his office in
St. Helen’s, Bishopgate, he would, with-
out the slightest jerk, give instructions in
Dutch to his secretary and then resume
in English. Though his life’s business was
the supplying of the means to make
motor-cars go he was a rider of horses
almost to the last.
* * * *
Dr. Leslie Burgin, who addressed the
Japan Society in Japanese, is easily the
prize linguist of the British Cabinet, out-
doing Sir Sam Hoare and Leslie Hore-
Belisha. At a wool dinner in London
last year Burgin spoke alternately in
English and in French, and his French
was nearly as good as his English. A
few weeks earlier he went to the opening
of a bridge in Denmark and spoke in
Danish. His other languages include
German, Italian, Spanish and Hungarian.
* * * *
On one of those French politicians:
Lloyd George blames Poincare (B. 18 /1 / ’39)
for the rise of Hitlerism; as he puts it in his
latest book, Poincard “is the true creator of
modern Germany.” Clemenceau, who spoke
English well, said to him, “Do you know
what the word means? Point, not; carre,
square.” Lloyd George had only a nodding
acquaintance with Poincare then; “I now accept
fully Clemenceau’s and Wilson’s estimate.”
Wilson’s estimate was such that, when he lay
on his deathbed, a physical wreck, with one
side paralysed, he said of Poincare “He is a
cheat and a liar” ; and “repeated the phrase
with fierce emphasis.”


'*Par e( i
r
"it Specif
r° J 'ed fro" 1
Specif* oj
s®w *0 f«£NCIS >45
CP
ll»
KW" I T cu^ 0 ° n
XH#****'*#"* 1
Gout)
V-B
G\^
the
perfect
Gordon's
ORANGE G!N • LEMON GIN
TANQUERAY, GORDON & CO. LTD., GIN DISTILLERS, LONDON
She lahgeSt gin diAtUlehS in the woild
0 Have you tried 3 parts
Gordon’s Orange Gin to 1
part Lime Juice Cordial?
It’s delicious.
The purest gin blended
with the juices of the
finest oranges and
lemons makes the per-
fect pair 1
You will find
Gordon’s Orange Gin
and Gordon’s Lemon
Gin exhilarating as
a cocktail, refresh
ing as along drink.
ITALY
Europe’s Touring Country No♦ 1
m
' j
m
©
* 'h
ROME. Not since
the days of the
Caesars has it been
possible to see the
Forums, the Colos-
seum, the theatres
and palatriel baths
so plainly as they
can be viewed to-
day. Ascend the
Palatine Hill, look
down with half-
closed eyes and you will visualise the historic scenes that were enacted
below centuries ago. In those days, Christians worshipped in secret—now
the majestic dome of St. Peter’s, the Mother of all Churches, rises high
above the Roman skyline.
FLORENCE.
Between Rome and
Florence you will
have passed through
a part of Italy that
has remained un-
altered since the
days of St. Francis.
If you have not
broken your
journey at Assisi,
Perugia and Siena,
the loss will be
JTQ
nr
iXSmSScs* essL
SSSS
i t7jt{T'
TBU. < I li
ScT:
*r
spread «. Franc. Ge™a„, and
Here it was that Giotto, Leonardo da Vine! and Michael Angelo
born, and their priceless pictures still adorn the walls of cathedral
churches. From Florence you will, of course, visit Pisa to see th
which leans 13ft. out of the perpendicular.
ITALY is one of the most economical countries in which to travel ®
special Tourist Rate of Exchange greatly enhances the buying P°
your currency; Hotel Coupons are available at sto 18 shilling ( * f
per day absolutely inclusive; motorists benefit by rebates m
petrol, and rail fares are reduced by 50% to 70%.
For information and descriptive booklets apply to ANY
TRAVEL AGENCY or to:—
E.N.1.T., 58 Margaret Street, SYDNEY (Australia)*
“Travellin' North to Darwin
IT is difficult to understand why so
many persons in southern cities often
express the desire to go to Alice
Springs. Possibly the name is the
attraction. In plain fact, the Alice is no
different from any other railhead in a
pastoral district. It has a few Govern-
ment offices, of course, but Australians
are accustomed to finding those in all
sorts of places. There are half a dozen
or so broad, dusty streets, several smart
homes (mostly owned by Government
employees), a couple of good pubs, a
decent vegetable patch and orchard, and
about five to six hundred people.
But Heaven alone knows why anyone
living in the salubrious south should
consider it a place for a holiday. A. V.
Hall, a visiting cattleman, reckons that
the Alice may yet be a summer resort
for those living further north. It is
2000 ft. above sea lfevel, and its climate
therefore is a comparative rebel fi om
the humidity of the Darwin and Gulf
districts.
Breaking north from the Alice the
road to Darwin winds treacherously for
12 to 15 miles through the ranges which
divide northern and southern water-
sheds. Once out of that there are 300-
odd miles of f.a.q. summer road to Ten-
nant’s Creek. Along the way is some
varying lightly-timbered country rich,
red soil in places, sandy in others, carry-
ing mulga, cotton-bush, supplejack and
other trees, edible shrubs and grasses.
A hundred miles or so north of Alice
is Ti-Tree, which has only a store. Sixty-
odd miles further on is Barrow Creek.
Barrow Creek has a pub and a telegraph-
cuin-police station. There is also a grave-
yard with one tombstone, bearing two
names. Natives came over the sur-
rounding hills and attacked the station,
killing the men whose names are en-
graved on the stone.
A hundred and sixty miles north of
Barrow the roofs of Tennant s Creek can
be seen gleaming in the sun and the
poppet-legs of the Eldorado perched up
on a near-by hill. Tennant has one street,
a dozen or so shops, two pubs and a
tremendous thirst. It has also six to
seven hundred people, about 30 mining
leases or more, and gold that is easy to
find but hard to follow.
Half a dozen miles beyond Tennant
are the old Tennant’s Creek telegraph
station and the creek from which the
town takes its name —from there it’s
170 miles to Newcastle Waters. Country
by the wayside grows coarser with
stunted box, gum and other trees, spini-
fex grows taller and Mitchell grass
ranker. Away to the east is the Barkly
Tableland, with its great Mitchell grass
downs, and to the west desert.
First sign of Newcastle Waters is the
red roof of the homestead, the name
painted on it in large white letters. A few
hundred yards further is another tele-
graph-c Mm-police station, and next to it
Max Scobie’s pub. Max must be the
most remarkable publican in Australia.
Stroll up to the counter and ask for a
bottle of beer and he’ll suggest a cup
of tea instead. After two bottles have
been accounted for he’ll positively insist
on tea.
Next stop after leaving Newcastle is
Daly Waters. Here Qantas ’planes leave
their passengers, mail and freight before
returning to Queensland, and here Bill
Pearse attends to his store, ’plane and
other travellers, mail and goods for the
outlying stations. Fifty miles on from
Daly is Birdum, where the railway from
Darwin ends like some blind feeler
groping in an area that yields little or
nothing. Big motor trucks call here from
the surrounding district and from as far
south as the Tennant to collect their
goods. O’Shea keeps the pub here—at
least, he did last year ; maybe now he’s
gone off in his old truck to Borroloola,
near where the McArthur runs into the
Gulf.
At Mataranka, 50 miles on, they tell
you about Annie Fisher. Annie Fishei
kept the pub and provided the best feed
anywhere between the Alice and Darwin,
and she’d willingly prepare it any time
of night or day. She died a few months
ago after a career that took her all over
Australia —Kalgoorlie to Sydney, Sydney
to Darwin, and so on.
From Mataranka it’s only a two- or
three-hour run to where Katherine
sprawls on the banks of its river. On
one side of the river the flying doctor has
his base, on the other Russian peanut
farmers struggle for a crust. Katherine
itself consists mainly of one dusty street
with a couple of pubs, a school and a
post office. Like Alice Springs, it may
some day be recognised as a refuge from
Darwin’s humidity.
After Katherine there’s Pine Creek,
where the country has been pockmarked
by Chinese prospectors, and where
gougers still chase colors and have their
dirt treated at the old battery. On north
again, past the remains of Burrundie, per-
haps calling at Annaburro. There Flarry
Hardy runs cattle, shoots buffalo and
mines gold. Then to Grove Hill, whose
pub was built entirely of metal to beat
the white-ants. Leaving Grove Hill, drop
in on Harry Potter, whose engineering
ingenuity and capacity for work on
his mine would give 36-hour zealots
apoplexy.
A few miles further on you strike the pub
at Brocks Creek. Here Fannie Haynes,
licensed to vend spirituous and fermented,
debates with other residents the possi-
bilities of the Howley mine—a deposit of
low-grade ore recently turned down by
the Mount Isa concern. Only another 28
miles to Adelaide River, and then 75
miles to Darwin over a fair road which
hurls up an impenetrable screen of fine
white dust as cars rip over it.
Past Newcastle Waters on the north-
ward run, the air gets hotter and
sweat flows more freely. Trees close in
on the road, which twists and turns like
a corkscrew. Tall, straight lancewoods
appear. Anthills grow larger, gradually
increasing to the 20ft. giants. Nearing
Darwin pandanus and other palms, tall
gums, ferns and a riot of tropical vege-
tation hide the country within a few
yards of the road.
The approach to Darwin is not impres-
sive. You sight the decaying meatworks
and the unoccupied homes of the men
who once worked there. A depressing
end to the trail of rusting machinery,
abandoned mines, crumbling houses and
stacks of rusting rails and sleepers which
litters the south-north run.
“S.T.S.”: S.A. is the first State to
establish tuna-fishing as an industry. On
the advice of J. E. Cosgrove, an American
expert, a syndicate has chartered the
cray-fisher Terralunina in Melbourne
from Capt. Rand, who will sail it whilst
Cosgrove superintends the fishing. A
small canning-factory has been put up at
Lincoln, which port is also to have a
visit from Zane Grey, after sharks. G.
R. Cowell, the amateur who lately landed
the record white-pointer, 13ft. and
12911 b., has told him “I do not think
there is any place in the world where
they are so plentiful as in these waters.
* * * *
In Stock Exchange circles in both
London and Johannesburg there is re-
newed discontent with the Rand policy
of lowering the grade of ore treated
whenever the price of gold rises. It is
considered that a substantial part of the
recent rise in the price of gold should
go to shareholders. What is known as
the “average grade” policy has, however,
been virtually forced upon Kaffir mine-
owners by the Union Government in
order to lengthen the lives of mines and
ensure maximum employment. It is now
argued that this practice has been over-
done.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND
This competition was begun on August 24, the intention being that it should
last for six months. It has been so eminently successful that it will be continued
until further notice.
There will be no more quarterly £lO prizes, but every week a first prize of
£3 3s. will be awarded, and everything published will be paid for (the winning con-
tribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
For youthful contributors, a prize of a “Bulletin” cadetship was promised,
conditionally on a suitable applicant disclosing himself. Youths who have had
“Other Fellow’s Mind” pars, published should cut them out and forward them to the
editor, stating their age, particulars of their schooling and the like. The age limit
is nineteen.
Distance will be no bar, if a candidate seems to possess the necessary aptitude.
The youngest “Bulletin” staff man was appointed as the result of a Youth Compe-
tition, and, as in that case, cost of transport to Sydney will be paid, even if the
choice falls upon a lad from the remotest part of the Commonwealth or Maoriland.
THE TEN-POUND PRIZE.
It is awarded to John N. Rookledge, P. 0., Warrimoo, N.S.W., for “The Creative
Urge,” published on 14/12/’3B and here reprinted in part. It is provocative but
suggestive.
Amidst all the discussions going on at the present day as to the cause of
social unrest, I think the fundamental one has been entirely overlooked. It is the
deeply-implanted instinct in the human race to build something, and we do not
need a psychoanalyst to tell us that frustration leads to trouble.
Man is confined to building in what might be termed the external world.
He invents, explores, builds houses, bridges, railways and all the other myriad
things we use in everyday life; and the important point is that he does not do
this for money but because of an urge over which he has no control.
Now we come to the women, and I’m about to step in where angels fear to
tread. They satisfy their instinct to build by creating life itself and fitting it
to take its place in the world. Does it not follow that when this implanted form
of creative ability is abandoned in favor of an artificial one, something will
go wrong?
Man’s urge is to build for the future, but no children means no future. I
am not suggesting that women are the culprits; man and woman are two halves
of the same thing. Both are to blame, and what is needed is a change of heart.
It is significant that in Germany and Italy women are going back to their
old job and men to theirs, and I do believe they are happier. Certainly there
is plenty of building going on!
The £3 3s. weekly prize goes—for the first time—to a Maorilander for a homely
illustration of the fact that the other fellow may see things differently without being
an utter ruffian.
As before, winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the
others. And there is no express closing time. Paragraphs submitted in any week
may be carried over.
All Sides of the Box
Never in history has there been more
need to try to appreciate “the other fel-
low’s mind” than now. Once I was one
of four successful candidates for a second
mate’s certificate. We stood, four exul-
tant youngsters, in front of the examiner,
whose appearance seemed to have lost
much of its ogreishness since we had
learned of our success.
“Before you go, gentlemen,”, said he,
“I should like to give you a few words
of advice to help your further studies.
“You see this matchbox, Jones?” —
holding it in his hand so that Jones could
see only one side of the box. “What do
you see? You can see a rectangle of a
certain size and color. I turn it this end
on. What do you see, Smith? A rec-
tangle of a different size and color. Again
I turn it.” Holding it towards us he
continued: “And you, Brown? You see
a third rectangle.
“Each of you with only the glimpse I
have given you would describe the match-
box differently ; and you would each of
you be right, so far as your knowledge
goes. But the box has a third dimension,
and what is inside it you cannot know
without opening it.
“So it is with life. Try to bear in mind
at all times that perhaps it is only one
side of the matchbox you are seeing, and
the other man is, in all probability, see-
ing another. Neither you nor he are see-
ing the third dimension. You are both
right so far as your knowledge goes and
no further ; but it needs very thorough
conviction to make a fight about it worth
while.”
On most subjects men can agree to
differ without heat.
I would like to send a few modern
“experts” on international affairs to that
old shellback for mental adjustment.—
H. R. (Maoriland).
“H.R.” (H. Ruegg, William-street,
Takapuna, Auckland, N.Z.) gets the first
prize of £3 35., together with space rates.
Jaunts to the Territory
During 1937 the Federal Government
at considerable cost sent a commission
consisting of Messrs. Payne, Fletcher and
McLean to make a report on practicable
schemes for the development of pastoral,
mineral and other industries in North
Australia.
These men, each competent in his
own particular line, spent several months
compiling data, which were freely given
by all concerned. On their return to
Canberra they presented a 78-page report
containing all necessary statistics' to sub-
stantiate their proposals.
Twelve months later residents, with
resignation born of experience, accepted
the visit of Minister of Interior McEwen ;
he came to “prove for himself” the
soundness of the Payne Committee’s pro-
posals. Another reason advanced: The
benefit of personal contact with the
settlers.
The visit followed the lines of visits
made by Parkhill and Paterson. Griev-
ances aired, banquets given and promises
made, but nothing more. So the N.T.
calmly awaits the next futile visitation
from Canberra.—J. N. M. (North Aus.).
Electrical Safety
Q. W. Harris (B. 8/2/’39) suggests
using house transformers to render
domestic electricity perfectly safe to con-
sumers.
This seems excellent at first glance, but
is hopeless in practice. In the first place, a
100 p.c. maximum voltage is debatable,
but if we take it as being as high as 50
volts it will necessitate rewiring every
house with wire nearly five times heavier
than the present to carry safely the much
heavier resulting current. This will need
much bigger conduit, with heavier
switches and fittings. Altogether, the
present cost of wiring a house would be
doubled or trebled.
The normal power point must safely
handle a kilowatt for each ordinary radia-
tor. The house transformer must, there-
fore, be capable of handling at least
three kilowatts, or approximately four
horse-power. Such a transformer can
never be built cheaply.
Actually the best way to make electri-
city safe is to enforce the present regu-
lations. It will be found that practically
all cases of electrocution are due to non-
compliance with safety regulations. The
authorities are now taking very belated
steps to rectify past neglect in this matter,
but are not making a full job of it.
In the first place it was admitted that
many dangerous appliances were for sale.
But the Government gave six months’
grace before prohibiting the sale of such
stocks. In the second place, only
licensed electricians are allowed to attend
to house-wiring, but anyone at all can
repair and misuse appliances to be con-
nected thereto. The foregoing will help
to show why electricity is not 100 p.c.
safe, and will also indicate the means to
make it really safe. Unfortunately they
will not be put into effect. — Mimax
(N.S.W.).
O.W.H.’s statements are (a) off the
track of fact, (b) out of date, (c) unduly
alarming. “Almost every day in Aus-
tralia an electrocution case is reported,”
says Mr. Harris. Was there one yester-
day? Or the day before? Or the day
before that? Actually, of Sydney’s mil-
lion-odd inhabitants, three only were
killed by electricity during the last year,
and we must go back to November, 1938,
for the last case. Sydney is not the whole
of Australia, but it is a fair guide.
“Almost every day” must be brushed
aside as a wild exaggeration.
Mr. Harris recommends transformers
for household and factory use to step-
down the voltage of mains to a non-fatal
pressure. For household lighting and
power circuits this scheme is not prac-
ticable. For factories such stepping-down
is a commonplace.
It is stupid alarmisrn to suggest that,
because electricity can kill, household in-
stallations are desperately dangerous. Of
course it can kill. There is enough “juice”
running through the conductors of vari-
ous services here to annihilate Sydney,
but only when some foolish, ignorant or
improper misuse is made of equipment
does anyone get hurt. —R. K. Dyce, secre-
tary, Safety First Council of N.S.W.
Recruiting and the Girl Friend
No plan for the enrolment of sufficient
young men, trained to defend our shores,
will be successful until the girls place
the gallant volunteer for the obvious
duty on a higher plane than they do the
presumably unfit youth who shirks it.
The idea of appearing in the streets
in a uniform must become popular, and
the wearer must feel just as proud as
if his tunic had a row of service medals.
The average young man is not going
to bind himself to devote certain hours
to training unless he feels that the girl
he usually takes surfing or to tennis is
going to admire his point of view and
that at such times a shirker will not take
his place.
I am therefore strongly of the opinion
that the female outlook of 1914-18 must
be revived. Perhaps it would help if
parade days and/or nights became uni-
form throughout the Commonwealth,
and if on such occasions the wearing of
a blazer instead of a uniform or a
badge denoting enrolment should evoke
the same expressions of disapproval as
were evident during the need for national
service 20-odd years ago.
Believe me, the girl friend can do a
terrible lot to make the young fellows
rise to the occasion.—22lo (Q.).
Aviation Training
Reports that a Civil Air Guard
scheme is to be considered by the
Federal Government raise the hope that
the mistakes made in English schemes
will be avoided here.
Latest advices show that the aero
clubs in England are crowded out with
thousands of young people who learn
to fly well enough to get their “A”
license —a matter of three hours’ solo —
at a cost of 2s. 6d. per hour. After the
license is gained only two hours’ further
flying is available at the low rate.
The net result of the scheme will be
the production of a horde of licensed
dangers to aerial navigation (uncharted
rocks, as it were) and the gleaning of a
few good pilots therefrom. It is a
typical instance of Governmental mass-
production. (Consider our own militia.
We are asking for 70,000 men—not
10,000 well-trained men.)
And now for a suggestion. Every
year the R.A.A.F. selection board inter-
views more than a thousand lads, from
which it selects approximately 100 for
service training. Why not select the 100
or 200 best of the rejects and turn them
over to clubs which have the necessary
organisation and equipment?
The result would be fewer pilots in all,
but a much higher percentage of good
and useful ones, and the money would
be better spent.
The present English C.A.G. scheme
is a colossal advertisement for the ultra-
light aeroplane, and a method of sub-
sidising petrol companies. If we’re going
to have an assisted training scheme
in Australia, let it be a worth-while one. —
Mentor (S.A.).
Recruits for the R.A.F.
What view does the Federal Gov-
ernment take of the efforts of the British
Government to obtain in Australia re-
cruits for the Royal Air Force?
Applications were called for lately
from lads aged from \l\ to 25 years for
short-service commissions, good salaries
and conditions, including free training,
being offered. The Commonwealth fixes
the minimum age as 18 years, and there
is no certainty of suitable applicants
being accepted. I can certify that five
young Tasmanians were recently turned
down, no explanation as to the reasons
being forthcoming.
We even have a British mission out
here to advise regarding the speeding up
of production of aircraft in Australia.
The things do not reconcile. The British
Government’s offer to lads six months
younger than the age of entry in Aus-
tralia means that the most adventurous,
and therefore the most desirable, type of
young Australian will be lost to his coun-
try so far as his services are concerned.
Surely the Government should make an
effort to keep these young men at home.
It would not cost much to subsidise aero
clubs to train them to fly, and keep
them in training until they could be
absorbed into the expanded air force.
—Wake up Australia (Tas.).
Aviation Control
The recent happening at Megalong
Valley (N.S.W.), when two young fliers
met their death in tragic circumstances,
emphasises the need for stricter aviation
control.
A flight across the Blue Mountains
when mist is about is an extremely
hazardous undertaking, as all Sydney
pilots know. The safest measure under
such conditions is to fly to Wollongong
and cross the mountains at a point
known as The Gap, where visibility is
usually good. In this case, “the longest
way round is the shortest way home.”
Until the newly-invented altimeter,
which registers the actual height above
land as well as above sea-level, is per-
fected, blind flying above mountainous
country will continue to be a risky busi-
ness. On a trip from Mascot to Dubbo
storm conditions forced me well above
the clouds. When my instruments told
me that I should be above Dubbo I
took a risk —petrol was about gone—
and came through the clouds'. The ter-
rain seemed unfamiliar to me, but I had
no alternative but to land. Imagine my
astonishment when I found myself at
Bathurst, over 100 miles off my course!
If the regulations governing aviation
were strictly enforced there would be
very few accidents in the air. No matter
how experienced a pilot may be he can-
not afford to take the slightest liberty
with the margin of safety. In aviation,
not liberty but life itself is bought with
eternal vigilance. Usually the more ex-
perienced the pilot the harder he falls
when he jettisons that experience and
takes unnecessary risks.
It may be true that familiarity with risk
breeds contempt for it, but nobody who
values his life can afford to be contemp-
tuous of a peril that seldom gives even
a sporting chance of escape. Pilot
(N.S.W.).
“Crazy Kites” and Ground Engineers
“Eb” (B. 8/2/’39) has made a curious
attack on one department of aviation,
ground engineering, which can mostly be
refuted from his own evidence.
He would like us to believe that it is
more haphazard in this country because
choppy winds and storms in Maoriland
are worse than here (which may or may
not be true); but in any case it would
have to be something extraordinary to
affect the safety of a ’plane. One bad
landing can strain a machine more than
100 hours’ flying in storms.
From my own experience of flying in
Australia, I would say that we have here
a very fine body of ground engineers,
second to none, and that the system of
checking-up is strict enough to cause
even pilots to accuse the authorities of
being too fussy.
And just for good weight, and without
malice, I’d like to point out that dare-
devil pilots, the delight of flappers, are
in 1939 in the same category as road-
hogs, and for the same reason. —
Grounded (N.S.W.).
“Almost Valueless”
I was at school when the war ended,
so I don’t know what training the A.I.F.
had. But from 12 years on I endured
a lot—junior cadets, senior cadets,
Citizen Forces —for eight years. We
found the training uninteresting, incon-
venient, and on the whole almost value-
less. We had squad drill and rifle hand-
ling, games occasionally ; some of us a
superficial technical training. The
manoeuvres were repeated ad nauseam.
Our Saturday afternoons were fre-
quently spent in this way, when the
majority of us wanted to play football.
If we were excused we made up the
hours often under a broiling Queensland
sun in the summer. Six months after we
had thankfully finished I doubt if any of
us remembered a thing that would be
of any value on active service. And all
this for eight years! The knowledge
of rifles —cleaning, loading, firing—and


of squad drill could be learnt by the
normal child of 12 in a few days.
C.H.H. (Q.). _
Face-powder a Luxury?
The ladies of Maoriland gave their
votes to Priminister Savage, but he is
treating them most unkindly. The recent
import restrictions are looked upon by
the feminine world as dire calamity. No
English coats! No American frocks!
No chic little Parisian hats! But “am-
bition should be made of sterner stuff,”
and the girls (?) declare that so much
they can endure. Parliament can, should
it choose, take the coats off their backs,
but Heaven preserve the political party
that dares to touch, restrict or control
the coats on their faces!
And yet the Prime Minister declares
that, luxuries will all be severely cur-
tailed. From a mere bachelor’s point
of view what else are powder, lipstick
and face-cream?
Nevertheless he is indeed a brave man
who, knowing that sooner or later he
must go to the country, dares to brush
the bloom off the Maoriland peaches!—■
K.P.H. (M.L.).
Radio Amateurs and Defence
Practically nothing has been done by
the Defence Department to make use of
the services of the thousand-odd radio
amateurs in Australia. These young en-
thusiasts are all expert radiomen, capable
of operating Morse or ’phone equipment,
and in time of war would be invaluable
in establishing services as accessories to
existing lines of communication or mak-
ing contacts with places not now served
by regular channels. During the devas-
tating fires in Victoria, when Omeo and
other places were practically wiped out
by the fires and telegraph and telephone
lines destroyed, several of these ama-
teurs packed up their gear, and in a few
hours established reliable contact between
the stricken districts and the metropolis.
—Arthur R. (Vic.).
Sex Education in Schools
Some would-be reformers of the educa-
tion system are agitating for the intro-
duction of sex education in schools. They
assume that parents are willing to hand
over to strangers a duty which is obvi-
ously their own. The difficulties are,
firstly, the ignorance of parents them-
selves, and, secondly, the air of mystery
in which the subject is shrouded.
To overcome these, I suggest that
literature should be made available to
mothers (this could be done quite cheaply
through the Baby Health Centres) telling
them what to teach and how to teach it.
The good work done for health by the
baby clinics is proof that parents will seek
advice if it is made available. Therefore,
give us a cheap method of instructing the
young in the privacy of their homes
rather than in the promiscuity of the
classroom. — Breezy (N.S.W.).
Competitive Examinations
An analysis of the last junior exami-
nation shows that competitors were the
equals of youngsters of past years. A dis-
quieting feature, however, was the low
percentage of passes gained in many sub-
jects.
Failure year in and year out by a large
number of candidates must be attributed
either to the fact that the papers set are
beyond the child of junior age or that
competitive examinations do not allow
him to give of his best. Experience proves
that it is not the best-educated but the
best-crammed person who succeeds in
competitive examinations.
Nowadays, in nearly all semi-profes-
sional and trade avenues of employment,
the holders of junior certificates are given
preference. What future lies before the
candidates who fail? Nothing but general
unskilled labor.
In my judgment, a system of proba-
tion would be a preferable means of test-
ing a youth’s ability and liking for any
occupation, and would be fair to success-
ful and unsuccessful junior-examination
candidates alike.—R. H. Miller (W.A.).
On Spain—and Books
Can anyone recommend me a trust-
worthy book by an author conversant
with Spain, the Spanish people and the
Spanish civil war, an author supporting
the Nationalist cause or, impossible as it
may sound, one whose sympathies lie
with neither side?
To date I have read only three books
dealing with this subject. Each is a
“sham” autobiography; that is, osten-
sibly an account of the personal ex-
periences of the author but, in reality,
excellent propaganda for. the Loyalists.
Not that one can blame the writer for
expressing honest opinion, but if he was
inclined towards socialistic principles be-
fore he chanced on the Spanish struggle,
naturally he would not strew flowers at
Franco’s feet. There are chapters deal-
ing with alleged atrocities, discourses on
the superiority of Communist to anar-
chist organisation, and so on. All very
interesting—but only one side of the
question.
To return to the original query, are
there any works by pro-Fascist or un-
biased writers, available to the Australian
reader, or are the Nationalist aims and
principles so despicable that it is im-
possible for anyone, other than Hitler
and Mussolini, to champion them? —
1. N. C. Nicolson (Tas.).
No Time to Stare
No doubt people do some thinking
about their jobs if they are fortunate
enough to hold jobs requiring thought.
No doubt, too, each is of necessity re-
quired to think out the material details
of his existence from day to day. But
to what extent does the majority do any
constructive thinking about anything
else?
In these times of rapid change, it is
essential, if democracy is not to become
a complete burlesque, that the voter be
able to deal with the abstract idea, sift
the grain from the chaff and at least
know what he wants. In other words,
formulate opinions which are .his own
instead of adopting the ready-made
views of some outside agency. If the
majority are unable to do this, govern-
ment is no longer by the people, but by
the agency that dishes up the ready-made
opinions.
To prevent democracy becoming a
travesty is only one reason why con-
structive thinking is so necessary; yet
there appears less of it to-day than ever.
On the face of it, the pace at which
people, particularly of the cities, live is
the cause. They will say they have no
time to stand and stare. But isn’t all
the scurry in leisure hours an effect
rather than a cause? Isn’t it because
they want to escape from thinking?
Many dread being alone with them-
selves for an hour if there is no radio
to switch on.
The New Journalism with its appeal to
the emotions rather than to reason, and
the radio with its grasshopper incon-
sequence, are equally responsible. They
have increasingly fostered the trivial and
worthless until a parallel superficiality
has resulted in their public. The habit
of thinking lost, ready-made opinions are
adopted perforce.
Remedies would seem to be more
reasoning and less cramming in schools,
and some enlightened control of the
agencies influencing the popular mind. —•
T. E. P. (N.S.W.). ■
Feminine Economy (?)
It is impossible for women to be classed
in the category of economists whilst they
continue to squander at least £2,500,000
each year on “beauty treatment” in Aus-
tralia alone.
This vast expenditure would be justi-
fied if they succeeded in improving their
appearance. Yet in spite of many so-
called aids to beauty statistics show
clearly that the percentage of marriages
and births is far below that of years when
lipstick was recognised as garish.
Natural beauty is the standard from
which the artificial is copied. Admitting
that a woman might look better were she
like Galarious Gorba, wflat exactly is
expected of a man when he sees on every
hand women all made up to look like
Galarious Gorba?
My own reactions, and thoughts, are
apparent when I state that, though 1
attract a modicum of attention (without
effort), I am still a bachelor. —Smacker
(N.Q.).
Voluntary Euthanasia
Occupying a position which may be
termed quasi-predominant (to a greater
extent in the past year or so than at
present) in the medical, legal and social
world is the question of voluntary
euthanasia, or the claim of the right to
die (by the painless administration of
some deadly drug) by the person con-
cerned. If one is afflicted by an in-
curable disease, promoting continual, un-
bearable pain, which can be abolished
only by the inevitable arrival of death,
the question arises: Would it be right
for one to demand death?
Prevalent, more so in recent years of
modern civilisation than was previously
known, are the various branches of fatal
cancer (resulting in excruciating pain in
the majority of cases). The removal of
the terrible and inevitable deaths and
substitution by others more pleasant and
painless was the object of the humane
benefactors in advancing before the
House of Lords a bill which, they hoped,
would grant them their ends, but although
the bill had influential backing it was
dismissed.
In the interests of mankind, voluntary
euthanasia should be allowable under the
supervision of two specially-appointed,
reliable and independent witnesses, be-
sides the administrator, whose humane
mission is the assuagement of pain.—
K. O. (Q.).
No Horses
With their ears attuned to the sound
of war “thundering at our gates” it is
not surprising that Priminister Lyons and
Recruiting-officer Hughes have failed to
hear the plaint of the many would-be
Light Horsemen who can’t afford to buy
a horse.
Surely it would not be too difficult to
advance to picked applicants sufficient
cash, which could be repaid in small in-
stalments deducted from the recruit's
wages?
The recruit might—in country districts
at least —be allowed to find a nag (sub-
ject to official approval) to suit himself;
and, as ultimately he would have to pay
for it, there would be no reckless spend-
ing of taxpayers’ money. O. C. P.
(N.S.W.).
Waste
Any observant person must agree that
criminal waste abounds in this land. Par-
ticularly is the fact impressed upon one
when walking through industrial suburbs.
I attended a picnic of children from a
slum area and was astounded at what I
saw. Children ate the icing off the cakes,
and when something more attractive was
offered they threw away the remains of
the cakes.
Although their parents and guardians
were present, not one word of reproof
emanated from them.
Not only is there waste in foodstuffs
and in money, but also in the most pre-
cious thing of all —time. —R. R. Brown
(S.A.).
Educate Our Masters
Someone wrote in these columns
recently suggesting that politicians should
be subjected to an examination to deter-
mine their fitness or otherwise for the
jobs of governing this country. But why
stop at politicians?
A man is not allowed to practise medi-
cine unless he knows something of the
human body, but a financier is allowed
to operate freely without any knowledge
at all of the effects of his activities, unless
it be of the effect upon his own banking
account. Why should any man be
allowed to operate on the Stock Ex-
change, for instance, without first sub-
mitting himself to an examination in
economics and (say) the history of the
world? Just suppose one of our budding
industrial magnates were confronted with
the question, “If you raise the price of
boots by 6d. per pair, what effect would
that have on the local demand for fresh
vegetables?” Do you think he would
pass?
Policemen, firemen, soldiers and sailors
all have to study for their jobs and to
know the possible effects of their actions.
Why not the financiers? Why not also
educate our newspaper magnates? Sup-
pose Sir Eustace Ikklebaum, about to buy
up a chain of newspapers in Sydbourne,
were asked the following questions by a
board of examiners, how far do you
think he’d get?—
(a) Distinguish between Alexander the
Great and “Alexander’s Ragtime Band.”
Had one any connection with the other?
{b) Arrange the following in order of
their moral value to the community: Mae
West, Anthony Eden, Joe Louis, Aimee
-Semple Macpherson and yourself.
And echo answers.... ? — Northcliffe,
Jnr. (Vic.).
Here’s the Solution
Here is my suggestion for the Jewish
refugee problem. Dr. Bradfield has out-
lined a Queensland irrigation scheme
costing £30,000,000. He plans to use the
abundance of water in the north for the
dry west. Given water, the black-soil
plains are the most fertile in the world,
while the climate is the “doctor’s
dilemma.” Finance should be available
for the scheme from London and New
York, if we can believe the reports in the
press of the readiness of wealthy Jews to
help with the refugee problem.
Jews could be employed on the con-
struction work of Dr. Bradfield’s scheme,
and this would give indirect employment
to many Australians.
The C.S. and 1.R., in conjunction with
the Department of Agriculture, could
supervise the settlement of Jews in the
irrigated areas to ensure that cor-
rect methods are adopted in the develop-
ment. The increase in production of
cattle, lambs and crops would be great,
and vineyards would flourish. So great
would be the capacity of the irrigated
areas for absorbing population that all
refugees desiring a home could be accom-
modated. —J. Flaherty (Q.).
National Insurance
“W.F.C.’s” assertions (B. 8/2/’39) are
sheer piffle.
Take assertion No. 1. Insurance, like
bank savings, involves the making of pro-
vision against life’s risks. Does anybody
suggest that bank savings reduce the
standard of living?
Assertion No. 2 is as hollow as No. L
Friendly societies do not give greater
benefits at less than half the cost of the
Government scheme. Take one of the
largest friendly societies. For a fee rang-
ing from Is. 7d. to 2s. 6d. a week, accord-
ing to age (under 21 to under 45), the
benefits are:
Funeral allowance: £3O.
Sick Pay (after six months’ membership,
except in case of accident): £1 Is. per week
for 26 weeks; 15s. for second 26 weeks;
ss. for next 52 weeks; 2s. 6d. for re-
mainder of illness.
Medical attendance and medicine are also
provided.
Under national insurance, for a fee of
Is. 6d. per week the wage-earner’s bene-
fits are:
Sick Pay: £1 a week for 26 weeks, plus
3s. 6d. a week for each dependent child;
thereafter 15s. a week while illness lasts
(even if it be to the end of one’s life),
plus 3s. 6d. a week for each dependent
child.
Pension: £1 a week on reaching 65 years
(60 in case of women).
Free medical attention and medicine.
It will be seen, therefore, that national
insurance, for a lower contribution by
wage-earners, gives far greater cash bene-
fits, and provides also for £52 a year in
pension. Further, friendly society mem-
bers must keep up their payments while
ill. Under national insurance payments
are suspended while the insured person
is ill. even if the illness lasts all his life. —
T. R. G. (N.S.W.).
The par. by “J.J.M.” (B. ,18/l/’39) is
neither constructive nor thoughtful. It
merely condemns national insurance on
the ground that it is unpopular and offers
a nebulous alternative.
I am one of those unfortunates who,
although looking healthy, have been un-
able to join a friendly society or take up
any appreciable insurance cover because
of a “heart.” The friendly societies at
present do not accept adults whom the
doctor will not pass, so I am rather inter-
ested in the manner in which “J.J.M.”
would compel me to join a friendly
society when societies won’t accept me.
—M. J. Smith (Q.).
Taxing the Pastoralist
Greater burdens have to be borne by
the outback man in Queensland than local-
authority rates and motor-car taxes (B.
25 /1 / ’39), although these are heavy
enough. .
Rail freights on essential supplies for
the inland are enormous. Here are a
few instances furnished to me when in-
vestigating some time ago the high cost
of transport of goods railed from Bris-
bane to Cheepie, for Milo station, in
the Adavale district. The additional
cartage from the railhead to the property
is shown in parentheses:
Flour £4 12s. (£4) per ton, tea £l3 (£4),
sugar £8 Is. Bd. (£4), dried fruits £8 10s.
(£4), rice £8 10s. (£4), cased goods, includ-
ing sauces, tinned fish, glassware, etc., Jj
p.c. of the weight of which is usually pack-
ing, £l3 (£4), wire-netting and fencing-
wire £5 11s. 9d. (£4).
At that time graziers were paying as
much as £6 Bs. a ton on greasy wool and
£8 on scoured from Charleville to Bris-
bane, and were also expected to pa)
heavy freightage on the return of their
wool packs, whereas hotelkeepers are
conceded free carriage on empty beer
barrels returned to the coast. Good luc c
to the thirsty beer-drinkers! But why
the inconsistency? Other glaring cases
of discriminatory treatment agains
graziers include the higher charges im-
posed on wool-producers an unsu-
sidised industry—as compared wi
wheatgrowers. In the Mitchell dis r v
the freight on wool to Brisbane is round
about £6 a ton, whereas wheat trans-
ported between the two centres at t
ton, notwithstanding that wool is a co
modity which is more easily hanclie< T
The whole trouble to-day is t
graziers are burdened with taxation oa
on boom-time prices of the 7
period from 1914 to 1924. This P ,
has been looked upon as a norm
decade for the sheep industry, a •’
no more abnormal decade was ■
enced in the history of woolgrov B -
R.F.C. (N.S.W.).


rrrTTrrrrrr
r
HOW ARE
YOU TO-DAY?
Do you feel sufficiently fit to grapple with the
problems of the day? Do you possess that keen yet
cheerful nature which helps you through?
When feeling well you can face the position with much
more equanimity than the one who is handicapped by
indifferent health.
Remember the condition of the liver largely influences one’s
outlook on life. Therefore, the first essential is to keep the
liver and other organs of digestion in a regular condition, thus
ensuring the clear, balanced vision and active brain that are
so necessary to cope with the difficulties which are constantlv
arising.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills enjoy an unrivalled reputation
as an everyday remedy. They stir the liver, act on the stomach,
and promote regular action of the bowels in a gentle yet
thorough manner.
dtmorses
INDIAN
ROOT
They Make You
Feel Brighter
m.
Mirpil
Is Ideal for
SUNBURN
Windburn and Sunburn. —When
the skin is burned by either wind or
sun, or both, liberal applications of
Mirpil will bring relief. If the skin
is too tender to bear being touched
by hand, lay a clean linen or cotton
cloth, saturated with the Balm, over
the affected part.
Mosquitoes and Sandflies.—Mirpil
smeared on face and hands at night
will keep mosquitoes away. It also
soothes mosquito and sandfly bites.
Sore and Tired Feet. —Apply
Mirpil to the soles of your feet when
sore and tired. The relief is won-
derful.
After Shaving. —A small quantity
of Mirpil rubbed on the face after
shaving will be found soothing.
Before Applying Powder, always
rub Mirpil into the skin until quite
dry. The cleansing and cooling
actions of this preparation will
enhance the comfort which powder
provides.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or will be sent post paid upon
receipt of postal note or stamps by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., and 6 Farish Street, Wel-
lington, New Zealand.
Price, 2/6 per bottle, post paid.
WORMS
Does Your Child
Show Any of
These Symptoms?
Picking at the nose.
Grinding of the teeth, tossing and
crying out at night as though in
fright.
Extreme nervousness, muscular
twitching, irritability, sleeplessness,
and general discomfort.
Poor appetite, loss ol weight, pale
or sallow skin, fatigue and lack of
ambition.
If so, the trouble may be caused
by worms, of which these are general
symptoms.
As a remedy for Stomach and
Thread Worms Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” Worm Pellets will be found
an excellent medicine compounded
on a scientific principle.
Obtainable all chemists and leading
stores or direct from The W. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or 6 Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Price 2/- per box (six boxes 1 1/6), post
free.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
df
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
o Subscribers living outside Australia and New
'Zealand should send 30/-.)
THEUWRW?
yOUBS
&
8
I
A BOOK BARGAIN!
G. B. LANCASTER'S
it
World
Is Yours"
A Thrilling
Tale of
The Yukon
A 6/6 NOVEL FOR
1/6
Post Free
X qO v
0 A&*
<?: > ACT •
X
e»’S >’S®C? e
St& -»’1 9
€ *
<*v
\\s s
*M"
s '
o*
.• ’ ’
••••' A<&
’ A s6 Vv v 0
c vl
•• O \A V 0 \^S^ e ‘


His familiar Brisk Stride
can be Yours!
Promise yourself a pleasant evening and a
brisk stride the next morning. At the club
or hotel ask for Johnnie Walker by name —
and keep to it. When entertaining at home,
see that the famous square bottle is on the
table. It is not only that you will enjoy
your evening more because you enjoy
Johnnie Walker more. The distinctively
clean and refreshing taste of Johnnie
Walker gives you definite evidence of the
purity and age of the fine whiskies from
which it is so skilfully blended. And so,
next morning, you will be glad that you
kept to Johnnie Walker.
JOHNNIE
WAhKER
Bom 1820 - Still going Stmng
ra
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
i
JW. 92. B
