

•u
IN THE MAKING
Conceived with ambition and foresight nearly
25 years ago, The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
Ltd. Newcastle Steel Works has developed
into the nation’s most vital industrial under-
taking. From widely separated parts of
Australia come the raw materials for con-
version into B.H.P. Steel, the master metal
which gives life to the nation's industrial
progress. More than 20,000 men,
whose wages total nearly £6,000,000
yearly are employed in the
Australian iron and steel
industry.
Irfii!
m)
W '' V . „
‘ J
r , <
-i:;
; & ‘. s-
■
'V
mm mm * ■ i ■ - ■
Bfe Wv ' 1
- -Si' i
i ■ * M
■ ■ . j
I i
H m
■ • raKi
r? i
i
ir:,
’ Si
H M
liH
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street. Melbourne
IRON and STEEL WORKS - - - - NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
The Bulletin
i/far 'fffaj • farffye tfyo.
Vol. 60.—Nf 3073.
Wednesday, January 4, 193?.
Price/ 6ct.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
urn
uiii
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free 16pp. Illustrated
Penmanship Prospectus explaining your Muscular Movement System of
Writing, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 139 .
The Red Page
"CHILDREN OF TANE."
Mona Gordon’s book about the birds of Maori-
land is enough to make anyone who loves the lyric of
the tui or the bellbird wish he had been his grand-
father ; those gentlemen who tripped over the supple-
jacks and their beards in the virgin forest were privi-
leged to hear what was probably the most beautiful
salutation to the daybreak in the world. Captain Cook
was amazed at it. Mona Gordon describes it:
In the early morning, before the coming day had
lilted darkness with more than an evanescent twilight,
the tui would begin with a few rich notes pierced by
intervals in which all the world seemed waiting, and
followed by snatches of his marvellous song. I hen the
robin would join in, the singer judged by some to sur-
pass every other bird voice in New Zealand. A little
more light in the sky—a reddening in the east and a
lifting of the veil of night dusked deeply down the long
ravines and dripping gorges—and the bellbird, beginning
his ordinary song, would quickly pass to the chiming
silver notes, which in chorus rang from thousands of
throats for perhaps 20 minutes, when chime by chime
they would die away.
Chime by chime the chorus has died away from
the mainland now. Present fowler can’t agree with
Children of Tone’s bitter condemnation of the pioneer
whose axe and fire and shotgun destroyed that ex-
quisite music. The land had to be cleared ; nobody
burning a few unnecessary acres —not even the Gov-
ernments subsidising the clearing of ridges that even
goats would have needed wings to tackle —could realise
that the isolated onslaughts were steps in a vast pro-
cess of deforestation for which the country would
pay heavily in floods and erosion. Nor could any-
body shooting a few birds for the pot when pigeons
were in their hundreds on the tawa trees imagine how
scarce the bird would become.
Compared with England, or any “civilised,” in-
dustrialised country, Maoriland, like Australia, is still
incredibly wild. Though the “Mara o Tane”—the
dawn-song—at its best is lost, there is still some-
thing of it to be heard in quite accessible bush,
and in the settled areas the morning chorus of
the imported thrushes and blackbirds is in itself a
magnificent thing. But with the pioneer and the
thrush defended, Children of Tane can still make a
Maorilander wish to be his grandfather, or at least to
ask the Government to let him visit one of the island
sanctuaries.
Kapiti, once the fortress of the “Maori Napoleon”
Te Rauparaha, is the best known. Mona Gordon
gives an enchanting picture of the bird life there, and
describes, too, the lesser-known sanctuaries: Little
Barrier, taken over from the chief Tenetahi, who
would not allow bees to be landed in case they looted
the flowers of the nectar that makes a bacchanal for
the tui, the bellbird and the Australian exile the
white-eye; remote Stewart Island, with its orange-
wattled crows, kakas and parakeets, fernbirds and
flocks of yellow bush-canaries; the Three Kings, with
thousands of bellbirds among the crimson blossoms of
the pohutukawa ; Mayor Island, known to big-game
fishermen; and the Hen and Chickens, where the
petrel and the tuatara lizard share the same burrows.
Full and interesting notes are given on the birds
themselves. Most Maorilanders know that the tiny
white-eye blew over from Australia ; but it’s not gener-
ally known that the tui, the bellbird, robin, stitchbird
and the kakapo are thought to have had an Australian
origin. The white and blue herons and certain ducks
are common to both countries. The white-eye seems
to be an inveterate globetrotter. Even now it trips from
the South to the North Island at the approach of
winter, and once someone on the brig Rita, 300 miles
north of North Cape, noted “several of these enter-
prising migrants” passing over the ship and still head-
ing north.
The honey-eaters, the richest of the singers, are
described among the gold of the kowhai, as northerners
often see them. Down south:
Summer lights mile on mile of the gullies and gorges
of Westland and about Otira with the blood-red glory
of the southern rata, and, as the flame of honeyed
blossom passes through the forest in sheets of fire, the
work of pollination goes on while the birds pursue their
honey-sucking, brushing the pollen from one flower on
to the next.
Mona Gordon mentions that Maoriland has only
four true nectar-eaters compared with Australia’s 150.
Australian gums have been a means of persuading the
shy bellbirds to come about the towns again. Other
oddments of interest about the nectar-eaters are that
Guthrie-Smith once saw and heard a hen tui singing
in ecstasy on her eggs—“a rare occurrence in the
whole bird world” —and Elsdon Best long ago heard
captive tuis talking fluently in Maori. Bellbird “con-
certs” —“apparently the gathering was for the express
purpose of singing together”—are also described.
Of the huia, which is generally believed to be
extinct, the intriguing though not necessarily hopeful
information is offered that in 1931 “a confidential
report was received by the Government as the result
of expeditions sent out on the romantic quest of a
lost bird, but it has never been disclosed.” There is a
chapter on the rare white heron —“the bird seen once
in a lifetime” of the Maoris —with the rather irreverent
information that one on Lake Pupuke spent a season
in the company of an old white goose! The blue-
wattled crow is stated to have “the richest bird voice
in New Zealand,” and from the beech forests of
Nelson and Westland there is this concerning the.
kakapo, the huge night-parrot: “In the drumming
season the male birds frequently answer each other
from ridges separated by over a mile, taking up the
booming lovesong until the mountain world is filled
with deep strange music.”
A fascinating chapter is devoted to the godwits—
kuaka —that fly to Maoriland from Siberia to avoid
the Arctic winter. Are they still shot from motor-cars
on Ninety-mile Beach? Children of Tane says only
that the Forest and Bird Society has protested about
it. Shooting game birds is a different matter from
slaughtering those marvellous voyagers. This is their
departure from Spirits’ Bay in the far north, when
autumn warns them that Maoriland winter is coming:
In contingents 50 to 1000 strong they alight on
the beach until there is hardly standing-room for all;
every hour of the day brings more and more armies to
swell the vast assemblage. Towards evening they show
signs of restlessness and agitation until the sky is stained
with the rose and gold of sunset and purple Te Reinga
lifts a shadowed face from the sea. Then, as with one
accord, the godwits, crowded almost inextricably on the
sands, mount into the air and take a course due north
in trailing, wedge-shaped formation.
Maori legends and Maori lore about the birds
make another interesting section of the book. It is
published by Dent and Whitcombe and Tombs, Ltd.,
and is written both popularly and (as the blurb, which
presumably can pronounce the word, puts it) “with
sound ornithological knowledge.”
High Jinks in the Jungle.
If someone went to the American wilds and didn’t
get eaten by pumas or mosquitoes, didn’t get poisoned
by snakes or blowpipes, wasn’t attacked and deserted
by his porters, didn’t carry his fever-stricken com-
panion miles and miles through the trackless jungle
and the deadly swamps, didn’t find a long-lost explorer,
and didn’t chance on some lonely white man wearing
a white tie and playing Chopin in the wilderness, it
might be news, but it would certainly make a very dull
travel book.
Similarly, if anyone sailed the seas about Malay
and wasn’t attacked by pirates, didn’t find himself
in some situation where he had to bear the white man’s
burden by shooting hysterical Chinese, and, above all,
failed to see a native run amuck, it would be un-
pardonable. A positive genius for suffering all the
correct accidents saves Lawrence Griswold in Tombs,
Travel and Trouble (Hale, Ltd.) from any of these sins
of omission. If he had come to Australia he would
have seen the dance of the lyrebirds, the rarest corro-
borees, been speared, been lost, and finally and cor-
rectly would have perished of thirst in the desert. In
Maoriland he might have seen a moa.
An archaeologist of sorts, Griswold went to Central
America to explore the ruins of the lost cities of the
Mayas. His first observations are of the lassitude of
the present inhabitants —and their animals: “I have
typed reports on my portable machine while meander-
ing on horseback and never missed a key.”
Trotting and typing along in this interesting
fashion, he reaches a village from which all the men
are absent except one timid, bearded old fellow. To
every native dialect, and to German and French, says
Griswold, the man’s only response was a grin and a
shake of the head. But he invited Griswold and his
companion into his hut, and there Griswold saw the
remains of a U.S. Army commission:—
Furious I swung about. Senselessly I used English.
“You!” I yelled at him. “Who did this belong to?”
The old man’s head jerked sharply upwards. His eyes
met mine with cold brightness.
“Why, to me, of course,” he retorted.
And we couldn’t pry another word out of him.
Next is a terrific battle between Griswold and a
particularly venomous snake:
The snake came at me, throwing his body forward
in writhing loops. The fat ugly head maintained an
unwavering level, and I have never looked into such
thoroughly unfriendly eyes. When he came into range
I swung at him with the stick. He took a glancing
blow and made a riposte, aiming at my thigh. He
missed, too. I swung again and hit him. It threw him
off balance, and I got two more strokes in before
he was poised again. The second stroke tangled him up
in my trouser’s leg, and I got in about six more wallops
that time. Then we really went at it.
A page further on, Griswold is carrying his
malaria-stricken friend through jungle and swamp. At
the end of the nightmare journey he hears a Chopin
nocturne in the forest night; it is an old German
exile playing the pipe organ. Next it is trouble with
the porters. They mutiny, and Griswold kills one with
a pick handle ; another rushes towards him swinging
his machete. “I stood my ground, raised the revolver
and shot him. The bullet struck him about an inch
over the left nipple. I could see the hole plainly.”
But the virile villain kept on coming. Griswold shot
him again. He could now see two bullet holes in the
chest of the savage. A third shot was necessary. There
were three bullet holes. That stopped him. A bare
six feet away he stood swaying, “dead on his feet.”
Grislier Griswold follows. His friend dies of
snakebite. An employee is murdered. Griswold
lives with the headhunters ; fever ; he rushes off to
the Philippines ; ship in distress ; tense moments with
hysterical Chinese; native running amuck —lots of
blood, and Griswold diving at his ankles ; tigers, pearls
and cannibals.
The Philippine expedition was to test out a theory
that the Toltecs were of Polynesian stock and
migrated to Central America by way of Easter Island.
Griswold’s not alone in holding that theory, but the
experts discredit it. In writing on that subject he
makes a curiously loose use of the word Maori; it is
sometimes used, as he uses it, to describe the Poly-
nesian peoples generally, but wlen he credits the
Maoris with helmets he seems to nean the Maoris of
New Zealand. If he doesn’t mean that people, it is
careless writing ; the New Zealand Maoris don’t wear
helmets.
Possibly at that moment a botfly got at the type-
writer. For the rest, this colorful, book
might well have been tapped out oh horseback while
the author was rolling a cigarette with one hand and
beating off bounding reptiles with file other.
A Forgotten Assist.
A year or two back a letter appeared in “S. M.
Herald” seeking personal information from anyone
who may have known Charles Conder in Australia,
and to John Rothenstein, since author of The Life
and Death of Conder (Dent), an answer came directed
in a writing unexpected, confirming accounts of
Conder’s brief term in a surveyor’s camp, and con-
cluding with a reference to Hornsby |as
a place Charlie ought to remember, but It was all bush
at that time but a big suburb now and|the best road
round Sydney at the present time, motor-cars as thick
as flying-foxes, tell Charlie Australia isia good place
to-day.
But for some 30 years past therms had been no
Charlie to tell. He died in 1909 aft®' a life which
conformed pretty exactly to an artislls existence as
depicted by the wine-women-and-stu|io brand of
writers. He came to Australia at 15iwith a pretty
good constitution, which Australia imffoyed, bul bis
whisky-soaking and women, alternated With bouts of
working “like a madman,” would have brought down
Hercules.
His surveying was done only on sufferance. He
had already made up his mind to be anlartist before
he reached Australia, and, after carrying fie theodolite
for a while and being camp cook for a little longer,
he headed for Sydney, where Amandusl Fisher and
Frank Mahoney befriended him and gavejhim a help-
ing hand. With Henry Fullwood and B. fc|. Minns he
painted Richmond landscape before shifting to Mel-
bourne, where he joined Tom Roberts aid Arthur
Streeton and with them held the 9 x 5 Exhibition (so
called because the paintings were done! on cedar
cigar-box lids), which set things humming lirtistically
about the Yarra.
All Melbourne came to see them, and to have a
sidelong glance at the odd beings who had made them,
for in those days artists were seldom seen by ordinary
citizens.
Odd at least Conder was, by this account. He
moved shortly to Paris, where, as well as indulging
“an overmastering passion for alcohol and women.”
he rigged himself out so fantastically as to soon win
for himself a place as “the quarter’s ‘eccenfdc Eng-
lishman.’ ” He read Balzac and aspired to dress like
heroes of The Human Comedy, or in some other wildly
extravagant style. The eccentricity, like his indulgence
in whisky and women, stayed with him, for well on
in the book Rothenstein has a picture of him in con-
trast with the invalid Aubrey Beardsley:
To the invalid with scarcely a year to live, attired
in tidy black, or sometimes discreetly debonair grey,
the spectacle of the other, lounging in a Caldecottish
rigout—stock, check coat, riding breeches, boots and
spurs (old-fashioned spurs bought second-hand)—-with
the sea for background, seemed tasteless.
ft wasn’t the only matter in which Conder,
apparently, was without taste:
A man shows as a rule a taste for blondes or for
ingenues, or for amazons or for barmaids, but “taste”
in this sense Conder was without; he had desire in his
blood, golden dreams in his head and a power of seeing
loveliness wherever he turned his eyes. So that nearly
any woman, glorified by his imagination, became desir-
able.
That, however, is probably true of all rakes, for
whom a fair working rule would be, Don’t be too
fussy. At any rate, in this and other respects Conder,
according to Rothenstein, took what he wanted and
paid for it. Before the inevitable bill came in he met
and married a woman of sterling quality—Stella
Maris —who ruined her fortune, her peace of mind
and her health in his interests, sticking to him through
the tragedy with which his life closed and not long
surviving him.
In an introductory chapter which is a little master-
piece of character analysis, Rothenstein speaks of the
ideal of a privileged existence governing Conder’s art,
as it did his life. He worshipped fashionable society,
but it did not occur to him to represent it as it was.
It is clear that from first to last he aspired to create
for himself the life he portrayed. And how ironic that
Conder, regarded askance to-day as the creator of a
too-exquisite Arcadia, should himself have been intimate
with poverty and pain and the most terrible and sordid
aspects of existence, and only at the last been permitted
to enter into the life he had dreamed of, before passing
on to a living death.
In his day Conder was greatly famous as a painter
on silk, and lovely examples of his work —Romantic
of the Romantics —decorate the biography. His
(Continued on page 7.)


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” Always.
THE SENIOR STORE
IHALF YEARLY GENUINE
JANUARY 5
TH
j
Experience the thrill of cool, undenied slumber 1 Know you are enjoying the rest you
so vitally need for good health 1 These spring filled mattresses ensure complete
relaxation and spinal support.
Only once a week must you turn it... and for years of satisfactory service you could
not choose a better mattress.
Hair surrounded pocketed-springs, and highest quality tickings are incorporated in
these mattresses from Anthony Horderns' modern bedding factory.
Use a correct undermattress (as illustrated) 1 If you have the old type spring mattress,
the mattress support illustrated will make it a perfectly satisfactory foundation 1
SPIRAL SPRING MATTRESS
A. These springs carry. Anthony Horderns' firm recommenda-
tion, and they will give added comfort to your mattress. In
Black enamel, Silver, or Gold.
SPIRAL SPRING SUPPORTS
B. Spiral spring support for that old slack mattress. Will
remedy its weaknesses and give longer life and extra com-
fort. In Black enamel, gold or silver to fit wire mattresses.
'Hordernian' De Luxe Inner Spring Mattress
C. "Hordernian" De Luxe inner spring mattress. Contains
962 springs, surrounded by fleecy felted cotton and curled
hair. 6in. borders. 4 hand grips. Floral ticking.
Sizes 2ft.6ins. 3ft. 3ft.6ins. 4ft. 4ft.6ins.
Anthony Horderns' Regular
Prices, ea. £B/17/6 £lO/10/- £l2/17/6 £l4/10/- £l6/5/-
SALE, each ...... £B/-/6 £9/10/- £ll/12/6 £l3/2/- £l4/13/3
"Hordernian" SPRING FILLED MATTRESS
D. The "Hordernian''. Full size containing 408 spiral springs.
Each spring encased in separate pocket. Best Belgian tick-
ing, various shades.
Sizes 2ft.6ins. 3ft. 3ft.6ins. 4ft. 4ft.6ins.
Anthony Horderns' Regular
Prices, ea. £5/19/6 £6/17/6 £7/17/6 £B/15/- £9/5/-
SALE, each £5/7/6 £6/3/6 £7/2/- £7/17/6 £B/6/6
In floral Damask Ticking 7/6 extra
THE "SUPER HORDERNIAN" MATTRESS
E. 408 springs. Covered with Blue or Pink specially selected
Damask Ticking. 7 inch borders.
Sizes 2ft.6ins. 3ft. 3ft.6ins. 4ft. 4ft.6ins.
Anthony Horderns' Regular
Prices, ea. £7/5/- £B/10/- £9/15/-£lO/15/-£ll/17/6
SALE, each £6/11/- £7/13/- £B/17/- £9/14/6 £lO/15/-
A
c.
5??
■
i. ■
r
U'-"<
'■••:. 'F
D
m
,
*w
v:
fWf .<*
,-r*r
C'
X
OfiJ
*2O
i
8
sC
mp
■
•NT
■■•; 3
■M
to
~v ■
“X
lii
© Bedding Dept.—Third Floor. Delivery free only within our delivery area.
IHI
ssx-t.v^
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Telephone M 2401, Day or Night Postal Address Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


"None of Us Is Perfect”
SO MUCH
For The SILKBYS
There was every sign
that something was
afoot the flowers, the
general atmosphere.
By Brank Middleniss
ILLUSTRATED BY
JOHN MILLS.
<l that’s that!” said Augusta as we turned
r\ the corner. “I think, after Laura’s mock-
/ 1 cream fillings, we’d better walk to the sec-
tion. Perhaps now she’ll buy her cakes.”
“From the tone of the evening’s conversation even
vich an extravagance would not surprise me,” I replied.
Not enviously or censoriously, I hope: a tendency to
inflation was in the circumstances only human—the
Silkbys, goodness knows, have had their trials. Yet
not without some bitterness, I’m afraid. One does
not without emotion see the word finis inscribed to
a thirty years’ association, the careless demolition of
a structure one had imagined as of some sentimental
worth.
How few does sudden opulence not spoil! Per-
haps I am idealistic. I have never magnified money:
all I ask is a sufficiency. I have never ranked a man
in ratio to its possession: we do not (one says it in
all kindness) bring to its pursuit equal gifts. In my
dealings with George Silkby I have been at pains to
discount the disparity in our financial situations. I
have regarded it as a privilege to be of assistance on
occasion. Such items I have counted as but tokens of
our friendship, not matters for punctilious recording,
like something owing to the butcher.
It was the lack of understanding that was so
wounding. That was the thing that hurt.
TO the casual observer our attachment must have
appeared a little odd. Even as lads, I fancy, we
must have seemed ill-assorted —he essentially a
plodder, somewhat heavy even as to feature ; I often
perfunctory, I am afraid, in the application of my
talents, though never parsimonious with their fruits.
It was during mathematics, I remember, that I
was first impelled to his assistance. Rather unfor-
tunately, as it turned out; for in transcribing for him
my workings of two problems in proportion I some-
how confused the boy with the marbles for bestowal
with the person with the paddock for partition, so
robbing of plausibility his figures as to bring him a
sharp rebuke and corporal correction, engendering in
him some peevishness and coolness. But it has never
been my habit to begrudge a timely forbearance: such
occasional little ungraciousnesses I have made it a
practice to ignore.
As I observed only yesterday to Augusta, none
of us is perfect. “To hear some people talk,” said
Augusta, “you’d think they thought they were.” But
that is just the trouble —few, I find, have the capa-
city to look quite squarely at themselves.
Worthy as were his people, their circumstances
were but modest; and when, our schooldays over, we
graduated into the wider world of business, I into
accountancy and he to a humble billet in the plumbing
hardware, it might have been thought that our ways
would have diverged. And so, I suppose, they would
have, had I ever been one to study social status. I
should be sorry, I told him frankly, were he to feel
that I thought the less of him because of the nature
of his calling. I never met him on his errands but
what I was ready with some breezy greeting. Indeed,
I was the readier: more than once he would have
passed me with face averted.
But it was not long before he was promoted
from these duties and given a position in the store,
with prospects, sometimes rather tediously enlarged
on, of a stool in the office itself. Another month,
he would tell me, and he’d have the whole thing back-
wards, from tiles to nickelled bibcocks: the way
things looked with old Gillingwater’s kidneys, it
wouldn’t surprise him if they put him (George) on
relieving Mr. Soames. In a year, say eighteen
months And so on.
It was not for me to check a very laudable ambi-
tion. I never, I hope, denied him a due word of
commendation, but neither did I delude him for want
of that plain speaking which seems to me one of the
first functions of a friend. Some commonsense
q ? eSt J On ’ SOn ? e dry inter P ol f tion ; But iron y> 1
afraid, is with most people largely wasted: they live
in a sort of shell of self-complacence.
By Christmas, he would confide (he was by this
time well established in the office), he should see his
way a little clearer. And a certain shyness, an awk-
wardness in its way not unengaging, would inform
for a moment his manner. His meaning did not
escape me—the theme was too familiar. He was
thinking, I was aware, of Miss Titcomb on the switch.
And that, I would remind myself, was after all
his business: whatever my views on marriage by one
in his position in general, or to Miss Titcomb in par-
ticular, there was a point past which it were idle to
advise. I endeavored to take Laura Titcomb (or
should I say Silkby) as I found her, to identify her in
some measure with those feelings which, for all his
failings, I entertained for George.
Even so, I was conscious of some loosening of
our contact, and the more so after my marriage to
Augusta. There is little in common between Laura
Silkby and Augusta—they move in different circles:
it would have been easy, but for that loyalty for
which I suppose I must account myself just foolish,
to have let the friendship lapse.
Often, indeed, what with one thing and another,
I found myself letting it languish; and then there
would come back to me the memory of old times. Old
George, and his dockets and his bibcocks, and his
silly social inhibitions. Must chase him up, the old
traitor—deal with him like Mahomet with the moun-
tain. The image was not unfitting. They were living
at this time in Cliff-street, way up beyond the sewer
vent. It was no picnic to climb to the wind-swept
region of Sea View, but it repaid me to feel that the
Silkbys would be pleased.
Q* OMETIMES I would prevail upon Augusta to
O accompany me, but for the most part I popped out
by myself. In fact, for preference by myself. I slipped
more readily into the old relations—after all, they
weren’t Augusta’s friends. Stretched in George’s pet
armchair (it would have hurt them, I realised, to
refuse it), released for a while from those problems
that are the portion of one in my position, things
took on a lighter aspect. Just lounging and relaxing
•—poking, as it were, into other people’s business,
those simpler elements (George’s cobbling, Laura’s
cake-making and gardening) that made up the Silkbys’
way of life.
I suppose I should have warned them of my
visits, but it was my whim to take them as they were.
I am not lacking in perception: there did not escape
me at times a certain initial atmosphere of strain,
a mopiness of demeanor, a not-too-successful assump-
tion of that front considered proper to a guest. I
betrayed, of course, no notice of these matters. Every
marriage has these patches; little periods of friction.
I am not insensible of these periods with Augusta—
an occasional lack of rapport, chords in my nature
to which I could wish for a more positive response.
Even when they moved from Cliff-street to
Matilda-terrace, I somehow kept in touch. And this
I will say for Laura Silkby: with all their movings,
with all their disabilities, financial and aesthetic (and
for a girl of her upbringing there is! surely due a little
allowance), she has always managed to preserve some
symbol of a home. A symbol by no means perfect,
but to her credit as a housewife. Such help as I
have given her —a screw of carrot seed, the loan of
a paintbrush maybe—has always been a pleasure.
More than once I have put in an afternoon’s labor.
It was when they were in Pepperday-street, I think,
that I papered the bedroom for letting to Mr. Povey.
It was after George lost his billet, at the begin-
ning of the depression, that they took in Mr. Povey
—a pimpled little , man with some malformation of
the palate, but clean and very respectful in his speech.
I suspect in her fussy way Mrs. Silkby found his
presence irksome ; but there were times, I pointed out,
when one must put such fancies in one’s pocket. I
felt, in George’s interest, that it was not a time to
beat about the bush. Yet in my soft-hearted way I
regretted having to assume what might seem an atti-
tude of harshness, and I doubt if I would have
slept had I not taken an opportunity to slip a
shilling on the dresser. Or maybe a florin, or
possibly just sixpence: such deposits were
quite impulsive. Goodness knows I never
noted the coin’s exact denomination. I only
hoped they found them useful, I only wished that I
could have made them more substantial. But, as I
often tell Augusta, money is not elastic: and it was
not without some pinching that we were recarpeting
the breakfast-room and lounge.
Nor, as I have said, am I one to overrate it,
useful as it is. If in my modest way I have been of
service to the Silkbys, I would reckon it rather in the
way of counsel and goodwill. Counsel, to be sure, not
always very gratefully acknowledged, but I have never
let this deter me. There were weeks at a stretch, of
course, when I never managed to get near them, but
I made it a point to maintain some sort of contact.
Then, quite without warning,, they moved from
Pepperday-street, and for the best part of two years,
until one Friday evening at the Plebeian, I never set
eyes on them at all. I just caught them as they barged
into a lift. On the trail, no doubt, of one of Laura’s
bargains. I could not but be tickled by their air of
gravity and purpose—as if, I laughed as I clapped
George on the shoulder, they had sighted the devil
himself.
I forget just what he answered. In such a mood,
I’m afraid, I do most of the talking: I.carry all
before me, and nothing would suit me but to bustle
them through the balance of their shopping and see
them safely home. Ensconced again in George’s easy
chair, I lost all sense of time —it must have been
one o’clock when at last I got up to go. Mrs. Silkby
had long since retired. She would have something
to say in the morning on the subject of all-night con-
fabs, I chaffed as I took my leave. Now I had located
him, he would not find it so easy to escape me. I
didn’t catch just what it was he mumbled. The un-
accustomed labor of relief work had doubtless made
him a little sleepy. I half envied him, I told him, a
job so mentally demanding.
I tried to get him some employment through one
of the fellows at the office —windows, gardening or
what not, nothing ambitious, but a start. Two or
three times I called round. Then came the letter, very
scrappy and mysterious, leading to that last depressing
visit.
T\HERE was every sign that something was afoot —
* the flowers, the general atmosphere, the food.
George, I was sorry to see, had plainly been drinking:
his manner was rather aggressively jocose. Mrs.
Silkby, too, bordered on the boisterous in her bright-
ness. They seemed surprised that we had not seen it
in the paper. They had called it the Pigs’ Feet Syn-
dicate.
They had bought for Augusta a flapjack (a thing
she never uses) and for me a leather wallet. It was
in the wallet that I found the ten-shilling note and
(Continued on page 6.)


Of Sir Henry Browne Hayes
OUT OF THE
PAST
QUEER CARGO.
J.H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
41 I TELL ye, Jim, ’tis gospel truth,” said Mr. Thomas
I Hunt to his friend Mr. James Dooley as they
I drank together in the frowsy taproom of the
Bunch o’ Grapes in George-street. “Sam Break-
well told me himself, an’ he’s Sir Hinery’s confidential
mahn. ’Tis in th’ brig Norah now, off of Benelong’s
Point. We’ll meet down at the Cove at nine to-night
and borry me brother-in-law’s boat an’ pull off to th’
Norah, whin I’ll prove iv’ry worrud I’m sayin’. Sure
’tis th’ grand Irish gintleman is Sir Hinery Browne
Hayes, an’ ye’ll say th’ same y’silf whin I’ve shown
ye.”
“Well, seein’s belayvin, I suppose,” replied Mr.
Dooley doubtfully. “I’ll be there, an’ good luck to
Sir Hinery, if ’tis true.”
The subject of their conversation was one which
caused some stir in Sydney about the beginning of
the second decade of the nineteenth century. One
of the most notable characters in the curious society
that diversified the Sydney of Macquarie’s first years
as Governor was Sir Henry Browne Hayes, formerly
a sheriff of Cork, and the wealthy scion of an old-
established mercantile family.
The circumstances which led to his transportation
—his abduction in 1797 of the heiress Mary Pike,
his returning her unharmed after a mock marriage,
his offering to stand his trial, having seen to it first
that the reward was secured by the family hairdresser,
and then, to his surprise, his conviction —are well
known. His exploits after his arrival in Port Jackson
in July, 1802, are not so often told. Sir Henry did
not make the voyage under the ordinary conditions
of a convict, for he paid the master of the transport
Atlas several hundred guineas to obtain exceptional
favors, and greatly annoyed several officials of the
colony who were his fellow-passengers by monopolis-
ing most of the available cabin space and nearly all
the possible comforts.
During the first years of his exile he was con-
stantly in hot water, mainly with Governor King, who
could not be induced to see that Sir Henry’s wealth
entitled him to any extra privileges as a convict, and
was not very fond of any sort of Irishman. In 1803
he was ordered to be sent to hard labor at the settle-
ment then being formed in Van Diemen’s Land, but
somehow managed to get out of this trouble, and on
the 22nd of August, 1803, bought two farms near
South Head—the famous Vaucluse estate.
Sir Henry lived there for some years, although,
as he was still a convict, he could not obtain a legal
title to the property. Governor King firmly believed
that he was concerned in the abortive rebellion of the
Irish prisoners at Castle Hill in 1804, and in July,
1805, obtained from five magistrates an opinion that
Sir Henry’s exile would be of much advantage to the
peace of the colony. The knight was then sent to Nor-
folk Island, but after a month there was brought back to
Sydney for transportation to Van Diemen’s Land.
Bad weather delayed the departure of the ship in
which he was to have sailed, and before he could be
sent away Captain Bligh had succeeded King as
Governor. And Bligh took rather a liking to Sir
Henry.
Under Bligh he behaved with more discretion,
and spent most of his time at Vaucluse, but, being
regarded as a sympathiser with the deposed Gover-
nor, after the mutiny in 1808 he was sent by the
rebel officers of the New South Wales Corps to New-
castle, where he had to remain in exile eight months
before being permitted to return to Vaucluse. He
was in hot water again in May, 1809, and was once
more forced into retirement at the Coal River, where
he fell foul of the Commandant, Lieutenant William
Lawson. By some means or other he managed to
get back to Vaucluse, and in March, 1810, was busily
memorialising Governor Macquarie as to the iniqui-
ties of Commandant Lawson, as well as engaging him-
self in the memorable and extraordinary undertaking
with which this story is concerned. Later his support
of Bligh stood him in good stead, for on his return
to England the ex-Governor busied himself on Sir
Henry’s behalf, and in 1812 a free pardon allowed
the knight to go back to Ireland.
"T HE Norah lay in darkness in the mouth of Sydney
Cove, with only a single riding light in her mizzen
rigging, when Messrs. Dooley and Hunt pulled off to
her a little before 10 o’clock that night. As they
drew alongside her black hull they were gruffly hailed
from the poop. “Boat ahoy! What’s y’r business?”
“ ’Tis all right, Mick,” replied Mr. Hunt. “We’ve
but come to call on our friend th’ bos’n, Jack Roarty.
It’s Tom Hunt an’ Jim Dooley.”
“Aw, well, if ye’re come to see th’ bos’n I s’pose
’tis all right. Me an’ Jack Sims has been put here to
look after Sir Henry’s property, but we’ve naught else
to do wid th’ ship. I’ll send for Roarty. Throw me
a line an’ I’ll make y’r boat fast.”
Mr. Hunt led the way up the Jacob’s ladder hang-
ing over the side, and he and Mr. Dooley presently
stood on the quarter-deck of the Norah, confronting
a giant of a man whom the light of a hurricane-lamp
hanging at the break of the poop revealed as looking
somewhat hostile and suspicious. However, when the
boatswain arrived, accompanied by John Sims, an-
other specimen of truculent and muscular humanity,
he was able to vouch for the visitors to the ship.
“Jack Roarty,” said Mr. Hunt, indicating his com-
panion by a wave of the hand, “this is me frind Jim
Dooley, who’s afther disbelayvin’ me whin I tell him
th’ gran’ thing’s bin done be Sir Hinery. Glory be—•
but ’tis wan o’ th’ foinest things has iver bin heard of,
an’ I’m wishful that iv’ry Irishman in th’ colony could
be knowing of it. Could ye not let him see for ham-
silf—take a look at th’ bar’ls o’ th’ blessed sod?”
“Faith, thin,” said the boatswain a little con-
temptuously, “an’ that’s nothin’ but the truth. ’Twas
a grand notion, an’ Sir Hinery does truly desarve iv’ry
good Irishman’s thanks for what he’s done. Here
they are, thin —twinty-five o’ thim —th’ lasht o’ five
hunnerd what’s bin a-comin’ to Sydney in diff’nt ships
this six months past. We brought fifty of ’em, but
Sir Hinery took away half this afternoon. He’s coming
for these to-night—l expect him anny moment now.
Step this way, Mr. Dooley, an’ see for y’silf.”
Holding the lantern above his head, he led the
way forward along the deck, and presently revealed
to them, standing in orderly rows on the starboard
side of the ship, between the open hatches and the
bulwarks, a couple of dozen barrels, each of which
had painted on side and top “H.8.H.” over “Sydney.”
“An’ phwat’s in ’em?” inquired Mr. Dooley. “Is
it Dublin stout?”
“Stout be damned!” said the boatswain. “No!
’Tis nothin’ more nor less than a shipment o’ th’
blissed sod of ould Ireland itself what Sir Hinery
Browne Hayes is agoin’ for to put all round his house
for to kape th’ shnakes out of it.”
“Be th’ powers, thin, ’tis thrue!” exclaimed Mr.
Dooley in an awestricken whisper. “Bedad, though,
Tom, this’ll surely ha’ cost Sir Hinery a pretty dollar
or two?”
“What’s money to him?” responded Mr. Hunt.
“Sure, he’s enough an’ to shpare of it for to buy th’
half of Ireland, so he has. I’m thinkin’ ”
He was interrupted by a shout from the water
close alongside. The boatswain hurried with the
lantern to the gangway.
“ ’Tis Sir Hinery himsilf!” he cried to them.
“He’s come for th’ rist o’ th’ bar’ls. He’ll tell ye all
ye want to know, Mr. Dooley. Oh, good evenin’ to
ye, Sir Hinery,” he addressed a dapper gentleman who
was setting foot upon the deck. “Ye’re afther th’
lasht o’ y’r cargo, no doubt?”
'T'HE Knight of Vaucluse, as his friends loved to
* speak of him, was a good-looking man of early
middle-age, with well-cut features and a fringe of
brown whisker below the chin. He was dressed in a
blue swallowtail jacket with gold buttons and white
buckskin breeches worn inside Hessian boots, whilst
a beaver top-hat perched rakishly on the side of his
head. He shook hands with the boatswain, and bowed
to the ship’s visitors. The two guardians of the
treasure stood at strict “attention” beside the gang-
way, and knuckled their foreheads as he stepped on
to the quarter-deck.
“Good evening, Roarty. Yes, I have the barge
alongside, and we’ll get the barrels aboard as soon
as possible. ’Tis a long pull, and ’twill be almost
daylight before we reach Vaucluse. However, this
is the last of it, and we’ll be in good time for to-
morrow’s ceremony. Whom have we here, though?
Ah, ’tis Mr. Hunt. A very good evening to you, sir.”
Mr. Hunt seized Sir Henry’s extended hand in
both of his and wrung it fervently. “May Hiven
reward ye, sorr, for th’ good dade ye’re afther doin’.
This is me frind James Dooley, Sir Hinery. Permit
me to presint him, soor. He’s come aboard wid me
for to see th’ bar’ls of Irish soil for himsilf—him
hardly being able to credit annywan could be afther
doin’ th’ gre’t thing ye’ve done, sorr.”
“ ’Tis a pleasure to make your acquaintance, Mr.
Dooley, and I shall hope to see more of you, sir.
Pray, Tom Hunt, my friend, is there anything that
would prevent yourself and Mr. Dooley from giving
me the pleasure of your company at Vaucluse for
to-morrow’s celebration? ’Twould delight me beyond
measure. You have a alongside? Well, if you
will accompany the barge down the harbor directly
I shall be glad to offer you breakfast at Vaucluse,
and then, later in the day, you will be able to wit-
ness the ceremony of placing the Irish soil around
the house.”
“ ’Tis true thin, sorr, what Tom Hunt’s been
a-tellin’ me, that ye’re surroundin’ y’r risidince wid
He addressed a
dapper gentleman,
a good-looking man
of early middle-age,
with well-cut features
and a fringe of brown
whisker below the chin.
"Ye’re afther th' lasht Q’
y’r cargo, no doubt?"


£lOO
FOR SHORT STORIES.
Prizes for *'The Bulletin s ’ Short Story
Competition are:—
First £7O
Second . . £l5
Third £lO
Brief Story £5
Stories should not exceed 6000 words,
though this is not a rigid limit. The Brief Story
prize is for a story of not more than 1 500 words.
All stories sent in before January 31, 1939,
will be considered as entered unless it is stated
otherwise. Those suitable for publication will
be paid for and used as they come to hand.
MSS. which have no chance of winning a prize
will, if accompanied by stamps, be returned
from week to week as the judges decide upon
them.
George’s statement —a list of my benefactions, my
trifling testimonies of affection set out like a grocer s
invoice:
Dr. to Hy. Petty, 9s. lOd.
January 16, 1937 .. .. 6d.
March 25, 1937 .. .. • • 1/-
August 1, 1937 .. .. .. 6d.
and so on. An acknowledgment of his indebtedness
as he saw it, duly discharged!
No doubt it was well intentioned, in its crude,
unimaginative way. It never occurred to him, I sup-
pose, that he had dealt a mortal blow at our relations,
debased their very spirit. Now that they had a car,
we must take a run out with them some Sunday, he
suggested. Now that they had a car— —
How few, in the flush of possession, can quite
avoid that air of patronage! We should be pleased
to, I responded: but I knew that a chapter was ended.
<<\WHAT impresses me,” remarked Augusta as we
VV got on the tram, “is how these people always
have the money for a ticket.” And in that amused
sort of way she sometimes has of speaking, “I hope
you gave him the tuppence change?”
I refrained from rejoinder. Nobody, I hope, can
charge me with want of a sense of humor —even
facetiousness I can tolerate in season, but there are
times, I must confess, when I find that Augusta jars.
th’ ould sod for to kape th’ shnakes out of it? Glory
be to God, but ’tis ’th’ enterprisin’ gintleman ye are,
so ye are!” Mr. Dooley gazed at Sir Henry Browne
Hayes in admiration.
“ ’Tis perfectly true, Mr. Dooley. The snakes
at Vaucluse have been a plague and a curse ever since
I’ve been there. Why, I’ve even found ’em in my bed.
But this Irish soil. I’ve had a trench six-feet wide and
two-feet deep dug right round the house, and to-
morrow I’m going to have it filled in with the con-
tents of the five hundred barrels of good Irish sod
that have been arriving here during the last six months.
I hope you two gentlemen will give me the pleasure
of your company. And now, if you 11 excuse me,
I’ll see to getting these barrels into the barge, which
my boat’s crew will tow down the harbor.”
“Sure, we’d not miss it for all th’ tay in Chiny,
sorr,” responded Mr. Hunt gratefully and delightedly.
“Come, let’s get out of the way, Jim. We’ll wait in
th’ boat.”
THE labor of transferring the heavy casks of soil
from the deck of the Norah to Sir Henry’s barge
occupied a considerable time, and the process of
towing the large and heavily-laden craft down the
harbor against a flood tide was a slow one, so that
the long rampart of South Head stood out against
a red dawn by the time the three boats had reached
the Bottle and Glass rocks at the entrance to Vaucluse
Bay. As they were rounding the point a whaleboat
came out to meet them, and with some alarm Messrs.
Hunt and Dooley noted that a corporal’s guard of
red-coated soldiers occupied the sternsheets. The
coxswain, standing at the long steer-oar, hailed Sir
Henry Browne Hayes.
“Lie to there, sir,” he shouted. “I wish to
examine your cargo.”
The whaleboat drew close alongside the barge,
which Sir Henry was steering himself. The knight,
with uplifted arm, signalled to the oarsmen in the
towing boat to rest on their oars. He addressed the
coxswain of the whaleboat.
“And, pray, who may you be, sir, to hinder me
from landing my own goods on the shores of my
own estate?”
“I’m Captain Piper’s, the Naval Officer’s, deputy,
Sir Henry. Name o’ Morrison, at y’r sarvice. Cap’n
Piper’s away at th’ Hawkesbury, sir, and I’ve been
informed you’vfe been landing barrels which might
contain dutiable goo'ds. So I’ve come to investigate
’em. My duty, sir. What do these casks contain, may
I ask?”
“Dirt, Mr. Coxswain,” responded Sir Henry with
an affable smile. “Would you like to see for yourself?
If so, come aboard the barge, and bring a hatchet.
I’m quite at your service, Mr. Naval Officer’s Deputy.”
“Did you say dirt, sir?” asked the coxswain in-
credulously as the whaleboat drew alongside the barge.
“We’ll haul alongside you, sir.”
The two boats lay presently together, members
of the crews of the whaler grasping the opposite gun-
wale. It was a calm and still morning—the sun just
rising over South Head —and the placid waters of
Port Jackson stretched in glassy calm across to the
wooded shores of Bradley’s and Middle Heads. Open-
mouthed, and a little fearful, Messrs. Hunt and
Dooley rested on their oars and watched these
ominous proceedings.
The coxswain stepped from the Naval Officer’s
boat to the gunwale of the roomy craft in whose stern
at the tiller sat Sir Henry Browne Hayes. The casks
were stowed lengthways in the barge in two layers,
and the Naval Officer’s representative stared curiously
down at them as he leaned above the cargo. Doubt-
fully he regarded the smiling Sir Henry.
“Are you serious, sir?” he asked.
“Never rhore so, Mr. Morrison. Perfectly serious,
my friend. Pray knock in the head of any one of
them and you’ll find the contents of the casks to be
what I say. ’Tis Irish soil which I’ve imported for
my garden—and I’ve been assured by Captain Piper
himself that such an importation is not dutiable. But
see for yourself if you won’t take my word for it.”
“Well, then, so I will, Sir Henry. I’ve got to, for
’tis my duty to make sure. Though I hope ye’ll not
be thinkin’ I’m casting doubt upon your Honor’s good
faith.”
“Do your duty, Mr. Coxswain. But you mustn’t
mind our smiles. Sure, ’twould make a cat laugh! ”
The coxswain took his hatchet and knocked in
the end of a cask. A stream of brown loamy soil
poured out into the bottom of the barge. He gasped
with unsimulated astonishment, and stared at the smil-
ing Sir Henry, who laughed aloud and nodded. “Well,
me dear Mr. Morrison, so ye see it is dirt, as I said it
was. D’ye want anything further by way of proof
of me bona fides? Or will that much satisfy ye?”
“Good Lord, sir, you’re right. I most humbly
crave your pardon, Sir Henry. But it seemed to me
incredible that anyone would want to import soil in
barrels, considering what a lot of it there is in New
Holland. I’d ha’ sworn ’twas spirits or wine, or maybe
porter, that you were landing. No offence, I hope,
Sir Henry. Indeed, you’ve fooled me completely.”
Sir Henry roared with laughter, and, standing up
in the stern of the barge, stretched out his hand to
the discomfited coxswain. His smiling face seemed
positively to shine with genial appreciation of the joke.
Coxswain Morrison grasped his hand diffidently and
shook it in a half-hearted fashion.
“Oh, well, sir,” he repeated himself, “I can only
hope there’s no offence taken.”
“None whatever, my friend. Won’t you land
and bring your men up to the house? It must have
been dreary and tiring waiting all these hours to make
your capture. Bring your crew and the soldiers to
the house and let them and yourself partake of some
refreshment.”
The coxswain shook his head. “Thank ye kindly,
Sir Henry, but I must get back to Sydney. I hope
the soil will do your garden credit, sir.”
“Credit! The blessed soil of Ould Ireland would
do credit to any country on earth. Oh, well, if you
won’t”-' —
“Good morning to you, Sir Henry.”
“Well, good morning to ye, then, Coxswain,
and a pleasant pull up the harbor in the coolth of the
morning.”
WHEN the boats had grounded upon the sands of
the little bay at whose head was the beautiful
garden of Vaucluse, Sir Henry waited by the shore
with his guests until the top layer of barrels had been
lifted out on to the beach. Then he directed four of
the laborers who had been awaiting the boat’s arrival
to carry one of the casks from the lower tier up to
the house.
Accompanied by Messrs. Hunt and Dooley, he
walked behind the carriers, descanting on a variety
of topics as they walked along the pathway, and
apparently in high good humor with himself and the
world. He ordered that the barrel should be carried
into the kitchen at the back and placed upon a table.
They were astonished to see him set three big china
mugs alongside it —and still more so when he took
down a mallet from a shelf and drove a spigot into
a very obvious bunghole. He turned the tap and
filled the mugs, one by one, with foaming brown
stout.
“Gentlemen,”' he said, with a wink at Mr. Hunt,
“we’ll drink to the blessed memory of St. Patrick in
the liquid form of the soil of Ireland. Twas lucky
Captain Piper’s man didn’t tap the lower tier. There s
four hundred and ninety barrels of good Irish turt
in the five shipments—but ten of those by the Norah
were what you see. The best Dublin stout, my friends.
Sure I couldn’t put Ould Ireland into the trench with-
out wetting the precious soil —’twould never have
done. Oh, not at all! Here’s good luck to the
Norah’s cargo.”
A whaleboat came out to meet them, a corporal's guard of red-coated soldiers in the sternisheets. The coxswain, standing a, the long steer-oar, hailed Sir Henry.


biographer—rather oddly, in view of the Australian
scene as depicted by many of our writers —credits Aus-
tralia with having romantically colored Conder’s mind.
To the artists’ camp at Heidelberg (Vic.) there were
often parties of visitors, including girls:
Can it therefore be that the spectacle repeated week
by week of these girls in their brightly colored dresses,
seated in the shade of the spreading trees, or wandering
through the parklike landscape in the brilliant sun,
made no impression on those susceptible eyes! It was
surely these scenes at Heidelberg that gave him the first
hint of the Arcadia he was destined to create.
American Irish.
James T. Farrell’s A World 1 Never Made (Con-
stable), though a long book, has the air of being a
fragment torn almost at random from some great
human comedy. It has neither beginning nor end ;
it is all middle. It is a year out of the life of an Irish-
American family living in Chicago, a year begotten of
many similar years and leading to a future which will
differ only in detail, for Farrell’s people are the help-
less slaves of their national temperament and their
environment.
The characters live: old Mrs. O’Flaherty and her
children ; Al, the traveller in shoes ; Margaret, cashier
at a smart hotel; Lizz, married to a lorry-driver,
deeply sunk in poverty and her numerous children, as
pious as she is feckless; Mrs. O’Flaherty’s grand-
children, Bill, Danny and the rest; her son-in-law,
Jim O’Neill; her neighbors and friends. They go
about their daily work, crises arise and blow over.
That is the novel, without plot, an inconsequent
stream of living.
Two-thirds of the book is in dialogue, and most
of that dialogue is patter, sales talk, blarney or the
dramatised violence of family quarrels.
Margaret is in great trouble because she has bor-
rowed a hundred dollars from her cashbox at the
hotel and cannot pay it back. She gets the money
from her lover —telling him, by the way, that it is 175
dollars, in order to make a little profit—but she lends
part of it to a friend and spends the rest. She inter-
rupts plans for suicide to wheedle another 125 dollars
out of another man. None of these events makes the
least difference to her conception of herself as a pure,
honest and deeply injured girl.
Al is for ever dreaming of the great things he will
do for his family when business gets better, but
business never gets better, and the sentimentality he
feels when on the road turns to bad temper as soon as
he gets home. Jim O’Neill is forced by his poverty
to let old Mrs. O’Flaherty adopt one of his boys,
Danny. This rankles bitterly, and he is always mak-
ing plans to get the boy home, but when a well-to-do
relation offers to adopt another of the children he lets
her go. Bill, Jim’s elder boy, takes to crime as easily
as to mud pies, but it washes off as easily as the dirt.
There is submerged tragedy in the book, a tragedy
which haunts the mind long after it is finished.
Indian Household.
“Elizabeth,” who wrote Caravaners and Father,
has not drawn a more devastating portrait of the male
domestic tyrant than R. K. Narayan has in his—or
her—new novel of Indian home life, The Dark Room
(Macmillan).
The scene is laid in an Indian provincial town
and all the characters are Indian: Ramani, the
manager of an insurance company; Savitri, his wife ;
his three children, Babu, the 13-year-old boy, and the
two little girls, Sumati and Kamali; Mrs. Shanta Bai,
the charmer who came to work in the office ; the
supernumeraries. Their life is presented in its natural
folds from within, not as a tourist piece. No attempt
is made to exploit its exotic flavor, but it is there,
of course, for the Western reader.
Ramani, the master, nagged. As for Savitri, she
had more than a dash of Madame Bovary in her char-
acter. Her only revenge was to retire into the “dark
room” or junk cupboard and lie on the floor without
eating until the whole household was in a state of
nerves.
They were getting along somehow when Ramani
engaged an appealing young grass widow as canvasser
in his office. He could not resist the challenge to his
vanishing youth. Savitri’s friends were not slow to
enlighten her or to offer, for her consolation, tales
of virtuous relatives —aunts who endured a daily
thrashing from their lords with a beatific smile, or
welcomed three concubines into their homes.
The crisis came one night. Savitri declared that
she would leave home. Ramani didn’t believe her,
and his only thought was to save his pride in the face
of this feminine insolence:
“Very well, take your things and get out this
moment.”
She threw a look at the children, at him, turned
round and walked out, softly closing the door behind
her.
Before she reached the gate she heard the sound of the
bolting of the front door. She opened the gate a little,
let herself out, and saw the light in the front hall put
out. Will the children sleep there in the dark without
me? She stood for a moment watching the light in her
husband’s room, and moved on when it also was put out.
It was very nearly midnight. She walked down the
silent street.
In the early hours of the morning, utterly deso-
late, Savitri tried to drown herself, but a blacksmith
returning from an unsuccessful burglary rescued her.
The blacksmith’s wife befriended her and got her a
job cleaning in a temple. After three days her heart
and her pride broke and she went back home. Her
husband, hastily concealing his anxiety, received her
casually.
The story is told with exquisite simplicity. All
the characters, down to the least, are drawn with great
understanding ; the children especially, perplexed and
frightened, taking refuge in naughtiness, are portrayed
with tender sympathy but no sentimentality.
"Fables for Parents."
In her latest book of short stories, Fables for
Parents (Cape), Dorothy Canfield speaks as the voice
of the American home-maker, of all those wives and
mothers with small families and small incomes, living
in small towns, who do their duty and like it; who
make pies that their sons remember all their lives, who
sit on the porch in a rocking-chair and when they
want uplift join a women’s club.
All the 17 stories in Fables for Parents are about
parents and children. Some are just glimpses, such
as “The Rainy Day, the Good Mother and the Brown
Suit,” wherein a conscientious mother tries to amuse
her three young children one rainy day as the book
on child guidance says they should be amused. But
it doesn’t work. “She remembered that the basis of
child-rearing is to understand each child at all times,
and went resolutely back into the other room, deter-
mined to understand Freddy if it were her last act.”
Finally the children undertake to amuse her, and
tenderness flowers suddenly out of exasperation.
Other stories, like “The Forgotten Mother” and
“Babushka Farnham,” the story of a woman’s
sacrifice of her talents, first for her children and then
for her grandson’s wife, are miniature novels. The
last story, “Memorial Day,” is a touching little piece
of anti-war propaganda. They all appear natural
and effortless, and some of the glimpses of children’s
minds have a sharp clear ring of truth about them.
In one story an only child is sent to play with strange
children:
The kind, masterful older children sent him to
and fro in the game. His feet trotted docilely wherever
he was told to go; but in his heart a dark pool of
uneasiness brimmed slowly up toward tears. It was the
first time he had played blind man’s buff. His heart rose
sickeningly in his throat every time the hooded “it” came
near, groping dreadfully with those blind, clutching
hands. Once they grasped and shook the thin branches
of the lilac that were his only poor shelter. His throat
drew together convulsively into a knot. When the
game’s centre shifted to the other side of the yard he
sank down on his heels, worn out with tension, trying
to get his breath through the knot.
Belloc in "Everyman's."
Apart from being a worthy addition on any
grounds and a proper appreciation of one of the
greatest of living writers, the inclusion of a volume
of selections from Belloc’s varied writings gives an-
other book to a select little shelf within “Everyman’s
Library.”
These are the miscellany books made up of
stories, essays, poems and other work by authors who
as yet could not very well be represented by any
single volume of theirs in a Library the solid body
of which is the classical writings of authors of all
time. Such authors recently added, in addition to
Belloc, are Chesterton, Aldous Huxley and Walter de
la Mare. Fifty years hence it should be possible to
say by what single volume any of these could rightly
be represented in “Everyman’s” ; to set up, say, The
Road to Rome as an established classic.
For the present each of these authors could not
be better represented in “Everyman’s” than in a mis-
cellany book. Each of them has written a consider-
able amount —Belloc an enormous amount —in various
forms, and these one-man anthologies, as well as
wisely playing safe, show the range of the authors’
genius very neatly. The Belloc vol., selected by W. N.
Roughead, contains a dozen essays, quarter of them
from Hills and the Sea ; 10 stories ; 11 examples of his
historical writings ; six chapters of travel and six of
literary criticism; 14 poems and a couple of pages of
epigrams; and a batch of his comic verses.
There is also an introduction by A. G. Mac-
donell which, while it remains, will as surely date the
inclusion of Belloc in “Everyman’s” as the year set
down in the imprint. Mr. Macdonell’s enthusiasms may
in time be proved right, but, to say the least of them,
they are a dangerous substitute for critical appreciation
of a contemporary writer. “Although Mr. Belloc is
the greatest living master of prose form in the lan-
guage, it is as a poet that he touches the Pleiades.”
“None, since Shakspeare wrote his sonnets, have
written about Love with such beauty and such pas-
sionate fire as Mr. Belloc.” Without at all abating the
warmest admiration for Belloc’s genius, it is hard to
understand that sort of extravagance getting into an
“Everyman’s” introduction except as typical of times
of exaggerated statement about most things, from
poetry to pills.
The Long Way Round.
It is difficult to find novelty in love stories, but
Naomi Royde Smith has made a very fair bid for it
in her latest, The Younger Venus (Macmillan). She
labels it herself “an escape story,” and it is a light
and intricate variation of the oldest theme —boy chases
girl, girl chases boy. In this one the fated lovers don’t
even meet until the last page.
Susan Adderley, at .19, is the living image of
Simonetta, the fifteenth-century beauty whom Giuliano
de Medici loved and Botticelli painted as Venus rising
from the waves. Anthony Frome, a .young authority
on Italian Renaissance art, is obsessed by the beauty
of Simonetta, about whom he has written a book.
Susan’s mother, a vague, charming but astute
widow, lets her country home to Frome —who is going
to earth to write a book —and takes her two daughters
abroad for a year. By chance, and unknowingly,
Susan meets Professor Winter, her mother’s first hus-
band, who had been divorced by her because she
found life with a thief and forger of artistic master-
pieces too exciting. Winter sees Susan’s likeness to
the Botticelli Venus and gives her a copy of Frome’s
book, Simonetta. Now her imagination becomes ob-
sessed with the romantic Florentine tragedy and its
hero Giuliano.
Meanwhile Frome, at Maze House, has discovered
Susan’s photograph and recaptured in it his lost
Simonetta. From this point the lovers slowly con-
verge along paths strewn with obstacles to true love.
Professor Winter, who keeps appearing with all the
effect of the bad fairy of the pantomime popping
through a trapdoor, brings them together at last when
he uses Susan to smuggle some stolen drawings
through the Customs.
She recognises them as treasures which Frome is
suspected of purloining, and rushes with them to him
—and so the predestined meeting is at last effected.
There is much more to it than that, of course ;
numerous characters, a profusion of irrelevant inci-
dents, an ever-shifting background make for variety
and lightness even if they water down the main interest
of the story.
A good deal of apparently expert information
about works of art lends some stiffening to a rather
airy fabric, but it would all be for naught if the
author failed to achieve the engaging innocence of
Susan’s character. Susan convinces, and by this
narrow margin the book succeeds ; otherwise it would
have been a mere jumble of literary stencils and objets
d’art.
Howlers.
More Hand-picked Howlers means that Mr. Cecil
Hunt now has twins illustrated by Blampied. With-
out aspiring to the discernment which enables Messrs.
Methuen to declare the collection even funnier than
its forerunner, it can be testified that a sudden crack
developed across the ribs when the book opened at a
page which declared: “ ‘Hors d’ceuvre .’ Horses eggs.”
Then, at a sitting, this lot: —-
In the old days married women put woad on their
bodies to keep out the damp and frighten off animals.
Nowadays they use cosmetics.
Crooning is a special noise made by men in love.
Once accepted by the corporation you become a
stationary employee.
The doctor felt his patient's purse.
The Anzacs were highly-colored troops who
eventually came to the English side in the war.
-The marsupial is an animal with a pouch in its
stomach into which it retires when hard pressed.
King Henry was always saying “Beware of the brides
of March!”
St. George saved a girl from a monstrous dragoon.
Poetry is where every line starts with a capital
letter.
If a man smite thee on the right cheek, smite him
on the other also.
What is the difference between “Aisle” and “Isle”?
The same thing, only one is a more aristocratic pro-
nunciation.
Solomon’s temple was one-half for him and the
other half for his wives, with a sanctuary in the
middle.
Westminster is remarkable for the number of laws
that get past.
The theory of exchange, as I understand it, is not
very well understood.
The chairman replied with a few appropriated words.
Andante is a musical term meaning slow and named
after the poet. He was very slow about letting Beatrice
know, but he was a classic all the same.
Lest anyone should think that that represents the
cream of Mr. Hunt’s collection, it should be added
that it has taken a supreme effort of will power to
resist the temptation (“Gooseberries are grapes with
hair on”) to go on (“St. Paul’s Cathedral has a far
bigger knave than there is in our church at home”)
giving examples (“What is the half of fiye? It depends
whether you mean the two or the three”) from here
(“Pyramus, nee Bottom, went into the wood to see a
noise”) onwards (“An epitaph is a short sarcastic
poem”) indefinitely (“Disraeli was the first great British
statesman to become a film star”). And that’s with-
out a word for Blampied, every one of whose draw-
ings is a wild howl of delight.
Australian Wild Flowers.
Wild Flowers of Australia, by Thistle Y. Harris
(Angus and Robertson), is a most painstaking piece of
work rendered beautiful as well by the many pages
of color reproductions of the flowers.
The author says it does not pretend “to be a com-
plete guide to a flora as diverse as it is interesting and
beautiful,” but it is “hoped that it may serve those
nature lovers who are just embarking on a study of
field botany.”
Readers should not be too far misled by that
honest modesty. The author, lecturer in biological
science at the Teachers’ College, Sydney, is of course
very alive to the multiplicity and diversity of the Aus-
tralian flora, but to the lay mind her work appears
to cover an extensive part of the ground, and her
notes combine remarkably the qualities of both the
expert and the enthusiast.
The book is sensibly printed. In the first part are
the color plates, with the engaging descriptive notes.
“This is for quick and easy reference” ; in other words,
for those who want to learn something about the
flowers —what they look like, so as to be able to name
them at sight; where they grow, and so forth —without
having to go into technical details. In Part II are the
precise technical descriptions, with botanical keys.
The plates portray no fewer than 248 Australian
wild flowers and berries in natural colors from exquisite
paintings by the late Adam Forster.


ROYAL
PURPLE
PARA
Wie 7neU(M7i£^SximlMmq/uel
Westminster Cathedral.


THOSE COCKS WON’T FIGHT!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.). Ltd..
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Saywell Buildings, 115 Lambton
Quay, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British
Empire, 2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France
or America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE U.S.A. AND GERMANY.
By way of a variation on the hands-across-the-sea
motif most appropriate to the times, the U.S.A. and
Germany wound up the vocally quarrelsome year
locking horns across the Atlantic.
Only a prejudiced apologist would pretend that
there had been nothing in recent German behavior to
warrant the censure of all who consider their con-
sciences clean enough for entering the lists. Apart from
those influenced by the unrelenting effort of the hate-
gospellers, many former friends have been turned
against Germany by the too-reminiscent flourishing
of the mailed fist, and by the savagery of the treat-
ment meted out to a harried minority after the Paris
murder.
In a word, Germany asked for it. Whether the
U.S.A. is most favorably placed for giving what Ger-
many asked for is at least debatable. There is still
lynching of negroes, with an accompaniment of
brutality that leaves Germany’s Jew-baiting hood-
lums no right to feelings of superiority in cruelty
—displaying from time to time the presence of the
U.S.A.’s minority problem—and there is growing anti-
Semitism, as a London “Times” investigator found:
Anti-Semitism, always prevalent as a social phe-
nomenon, is on the increase. With a few exceptions
every university and college and every social club has
its numerus clciusus for Jews. Certain hotels send out
slips with their prospectuses announcing that they do
not receive Jews. Many more pursue the same policy,
but do not advertise it.
As for the negro, the same investigator reported:
On the cotton plantations of the Mississippi basin,
debt, illiteracy and the fear of the chain-gang, which will
be his fate if his employer chooses to invoke the arm
of the law against him, keep many a negro in con-
ditions practically indistinguishable from slavery.
Both countries have their internal racial problems,
and could no doubt defend their methods of handling
them, but, just as Germany would seem to have been
asking for the civilised world’s censure, so any country
which takes on itself to administer the censure at least
asks for its credentials to be examined. It was
certainly asking for something when the U.S.A. gave
official sanction to an insult hurled at the leader
of another nation by a Secretary of State, who
referred to' German decorations conferred on Ameri-
can citizens of such eminence as Lindbergh and Henry
Ford as “shabby baubles from a brutal dictator.”
But since another shambles may be the conse-
quence of all the outpouring of hate to which Mr.
Ickes made his contribution, it becomes sufficiently the
affair of others for them to want to know just how far
the U.S.A. might be prepared to go.
Said the New York “Herald-Tribune,” in a com-
ment on “the tangle of European politics and Munich
appeasement”:
The French are cautious, and the British quietly put
the soft-pedal on their own press. The United States
happily occupies a position of both strength and
detachment, in which it is still free to tell the Germans
what it thinks of them.
This must be one of the few occasions on record when
the distant safe position of the hurler of an insult has
been paraded as a virtue. And since America, aban-
doning Versailles and Geneva, is largely responsible
for the mess Europe is in, the claim to virtuous detach-
ment looks all the thinner.
It is assumed by those who most loudly urge
another war with Germany —plus Japan, Italy, etc. —
that the United States would not only come in but
would come in at once. But if there is one thing on
which the great bulk of Americans have made up
their minds, it is that if there is another general
war their country will not be in it.
To believe the contrary is to. harbor a most dan-
gerous delusion. The U.S.A. is sincerely ready to
work for world peace, but it is not ready to fight for it.
The belief that his country erred in going into the
Great War is implanted deep in the average American.
His gospel is still the advice of Washington and Jef-
ferson to keep clear of foreign entanglements, and
William Randolph Hearst —grown old, but still a
power —has lately expressed it in these terms:
America must not succumb to the purely selfish
propaganda of foreign nations. America must not be
drawn by sentiment into the disasters of another
foreign war. Americans should maintain the traditional
policy of our great independent nation —great largely
because it is independent. We should not encourage
any foreign war, or participate in any foreign war, or
finance any foreign war. Our firm policy should be to
hope and work for peace and true democracy through-
out the world, but save our strength, wealth and arms
to protect and preserve peace and true democracy in
the United States of America.
That is the voice of the U.S.A. that would be
most plainly heard now if the much-criticised parties
at Munich had plunged their countries into war. And
it is the voice that will still speak loudest if provoca-
tive abuse, of which no country is guiltless, leads to
another struggle.
Meanwhile, there is something to be said for the
further suggestion of Mr. Hearst that “perhaps Ger-
many wants peace when she offers England peace and
the limitation of armaments.” According to cable,
Herr Hitler is expected to reiterate this offer in a
speech to the Reichstag on January 31. Of course
the hate-gospellers will, if at all possible, sabotage the
offer in advance. They are busy on it already. But
unless the world is bereft of its reason altogether,
there will be a strong enough body genuinely in favor
of both peace and disarmament to ensure that this
time Germany’s offer, if it comes, will be given a fair
and friendly hearing. It would be a great help to that
end if in the meantime Fritz and Uncle Sam could
muster up a sufficient sense of humor to laugh off
their stupid little guttersnipe dispute.
Recruits and Greek Gods.
Before the new recruiting organisation, like Parlia-
ment, closed down “for Christmas,” it was announced
that 3991 militiamen had been added to the strength
in 16 days. Volunteers are enrolling at the rate of
“2000 a week,” and if this rate is, maintained summer
will have gone before the required militia total, 70,000,
is reached, even if they all remain. And before Mr.
Thorby gave up part of his job he acknowledged that,
while 10,005 young men joined the army during the
year to June 30, 1938, 9913 quitted it.
Two thousand a week is a very disappointing
return for the exertions of Mr. Hughes, the Prime
Minister, Mrs. Lyons, Mr. Street, their associates in
street marches and public meetings, organisers, bands
and able editors. Some remote districts, such as
Inverell and Moree (N.S.W.), have done nobly, but
Big-City responses have been poor. Yet it is in the
big cities that the able editors hang out and freeze
the blood with almost daily exposures of militarist
plots against the Empire, and with frequent predic-
tions of wrath to come. And on the beaches, from
Cottesloe round to Redcliffe, the makings of at least
three good divisions can be found any warm week-end.
Surf-bathing is the theme of incessant raptures
in the flapper press. The young women who engage
in it are, it seems, all beautiful and wonderful, and
the young men are like Greek gods. Evidently the
time has come when it should be subjected to a colder
analysis. If it helps to make its many thousands of
male devotees healthier in mind as well as body, and
more conscious of their duties as citizens, above all,
the duty of contributing their full share to the defence
of the Commonwealth, it deserves all the rhapsodies
that are lavished on it; but can this be honestly said?
Hanging round beaches for the best part of two days,
having an occasional dip, but lying face down on the
sand most of the time, is a feckless sort of recreation
if nothing comes of it. It seems rather like what the
aboriginals used to do to kill time.
Many of these youths have taken to casing the
unexposed portions of their bodies in floral trunks,
just like the girls. One illusion about the tribe has
been shattered by the president of the Surf Lifesaving
Association, who says that the proportion of surf
bathers who can keep themselves afloat is “extraordi-
narily small.”
Men who are beautifully tanned by the sun, and
who, out of the water, look as though they are excellent
swimmers, frequently get panic-stricken when they find
themselves out of their depth.
His young men are, of course, different. All the same,
it is improbable that Mr. Hughes regards his associa-
tion with any special enthusiasm. At the beginning
of December it was invited to give its support to the
formation of a sportsmen’s battalion, and, though the
president himself was favorable, other delegates, as re-
ported, were lukewarm. In the end it was decided that
“the proposal” should be “referred to clubs affiliated
with the association before a decision is made.” Mean-
while “clubs affiliated with the association” have been
preparing for their annual Greek-god stunts., and
some of these performances or trial spins have been
pictured in the papers.
Game? Of course, these lads are game! But
courage of at least equal temper has been shown on
every Australian mining field, often by bow-legged
men with blackened faces who never got their pictures
in the papers ; and in 1914-18 splendid soldiers came
out of the mines. If Greek-god stunts are to come first,
and military training and service nowhere, the stunts
will be much too suggestive of corroborees. The
aboriginals lost their country because they were never
organised for the defence of it, and because their
weapons were inferior; but here and there they did
put up a fight. This is more than untrained Greek
gods could do, though their suntan beats anything
that flappers can find in pots.
Perhaps Mr. Hughes would be wise to leave the
pretty boys on the beaches until the Greek-god season
is over, and go after the motor-cyclists and the bike-
pushers. They are decidedly not pretty; but most of
them look as if they don’t give a damn for anybody.
Is It an Australian Navy?
H.M.A.S. Hobart, the new addition to the R.A.N.,
is a 7000-ton cruiser with eight six-inch, four four-inch
A.A., 21 smaller guns and two aircraft. Designed in
1931, but not completed till 1936, she is a sister to
the Sydney (formerly Phaeton) and to the Perth
(Apollo), which will shortly arrive to join her, having
been bought from the Admiralty. She is of what is
known as the “modified Leander type.” According
to Brassey’s Annual, it was hoped that Leander
would become the standard type of cruiser in the
R.N.
Foreign developments obliged an increase in dis-
placement. Amphion [Hobart], Apollo and Phaeton are
of the same general design, but with a rearrangement
of machinery and boiler rooms, and with two funnels
instead of one.
“Foreign developments” notwithstanding, the
three new cruisers will constitute a substantial access
of strength. The Sydney class is a match for any-
thing foreign in the Pacific except battleships and
the newest 9000-ton and 10,000-ton cruisers of the
United States and Japanese navies. The promised
building of the powerful Tribal-class cruiser-destroyers
in Australia and the reconditioning of the Washington-
Treaty ships will represent another decided advance.
Nevertheless, much will need to be done before the
old strength and the old ideals of the R.A.N. are
restored.
In 1909 stress was laid by the third Deakin Gov-
ernment on the point that the R.A.N. “must be manned,
as far as possible, by Australian officers and men,” the
numbers required to make up the full complement
being lent by the R.N. Thirty years afterwards, there
are comparatively few native-born or Australia-
trained officers in the higher ranks.
When the R.A.N. came into being an officer who
had earned all his promotion, from lieutenant upwards,
in the service of Australia was named First Naval
Member of the Commonwealth Naval Board, and
such he remained throughout the Great War. The
last generation has apparently not produced another
Vice-Admiral Creswell.
According to the October R.A.N. List, the only
Australians on the Naval Board are Mr. Thorby and
the Civil Financial Member, Mr. Nankervis. The Vice-
Admiral and First Naval Member, Sir Ragnar Colvin,
is R.N. on loan. The only other seagoing flag officer,
Rear-Admiral W. N. Custance, commanding the
R.A.N. Squadron, is also from the R.N. So were his
predecessors; so are the Second Naval Member, the
senior captain, the captain in charge at Sydney and
the officer in command of the Sydney Naval Depot.
There are 11 captains on the list. Six out of
seven at the top are on loan from Britain —the excep-
tion is Captain Pope, in command at the Flinders
Naval College, R.N. till 1919. Of 18 commanders
four are R.N., including the two senior commanders.
The Admiral’s flag captain and staff officer for opera-
tions —in fact, three out of four of his staff —are also
temporaries from overseas ; among them is the only
paymaster-service commissioned R.N. man in Aus-
tralian waters.
Thus every senior officer, except one, from
cruiser captains upwards, is borrowed. The only Aus-
tralian-trained captains who have held ship commands
have been relegated to obsolescent destroyers which,
in the R.N., would be under the care of lieutenant
commanders. The gunnery officers in the larger
ships are usually R.N. So are four commissioned
gunners out of nine, one boatswain out of three, the
only commissioned ordnance officer and even one of
two commissioned bandmasters. Only the engineer-
ing branch is completely Australian from senior com-
mand to bottom rung.
It cannot be argued that employment of R.N.
men is necessary because Australians lack experience.
There is always a healthy batch of R.A.N. officers serv-
ing in British battleships and cruisers. . Early graduates
of Jervis Bay saw as much war service as almost any
R.N. man.
Unfortunately, the Defence Department has never
been able to tear itself off the confining pin of British
precedent, which dictates that promotion shall be
rigidly spaced at regular periods, except for men of
such outstanding personality that their progress defies
unwritten naval law and tradition. Normally, a British
naval officer of sufficient ability for command may
expect to become a captain 25 years after entering
the service. He can look forward to 12 or 13 years
in that rank, which enables him to have a few years’
service on each of the main stations. Then he may
become a rear-admiral for four or five years, a vice-
admiral for another four or five years, and, if he is
very lucky, an admiral.
The spacing is necessary because officers are
plentiful. Generally speaking, it inflicts no hardship,
as it may do in a smaller navy, since there are many
technical avenues through which a specialist com-
mander in the R.N. may retire to affluence; for
example, the general manager of Hadfields went
straight to his job from a specialist commander’s
office.
In a large and far-flung navy, too, it is also an
advantage in widening detailed experience. But in the
R.A.N., with its limited geographical and technical
scope, the system of slow promotion doesn’t work
well. It is not in keeping with the national spirit, and
it tends to thwart legitimate ambition.
As things are, Australians can hope for little from
a naval career. British naval seniors are liberal with
praise of the material they have to handle, but com-
pliment is a poor alternative to opportunity. There
must be plenty of executive experience which is not
availed of.
When the Commonwealth Government looked
round for an Administrator for Nauru, it chose an
R.A.N. commander, R. C. Garsia. He had been a
lieutenant in the Sydney-Emden fight, and he after-
wards served in the North Sea. Deck officers of suffi-
cient executive ability to captain an island should
surely have enough to captain a 7000-ton cruiser.
HOOD.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Under License."
Globetrotting Australian Ministers have taken credit
for the introduction of dead-meat quotas in respect
of the British market. The truth about the chilled-
beef quota is that it has never been attained or even
attainable, and the factor which has determined in-
creased admission of Maoriland and Australian sheep
meat has been the increasing preference of British
buyers for it. As S. American consignments were
gradually displaced, British farmers have found that
the improvement in quality of Canterbury lamb and
the produce of parts of Australia—particularly S.A.
and W.A. —has made such imports competitive with
home-grown meat.
Australia is now being asked by the British Gov-
ernment to “regulate” the export of mutton and lamb
from January 15. It is reminiscent of the request that
the hangman makes to a victim, “Please stand still
while I fix the rope.” From the fixed date, mutton
and lamb will be admitted to the U.K. only under
license. Quotas will be controlled through the Empire
Meat Council.
The “Times” remarks cheerfully that there is
every reason to believe that the producers of Britain
and the Empire will welcome the chance of putting
into practice principles agreed upon at the Empire
Producers’ Conference in Sydney.
In Canberra, it is reported by Melbourne “Argus,”
the “request has caused little surprise: at this stage
it does not seem likely that the Dominions will be
asked to reduce supplies sent to London”:
Rather they will be requested to regulate shipments
to prevent imports reaching the British market simul-
taneously with large consignments ol home-produced
stock and causing gluts.
Mr. Thompson, the Assistant Minister of Com-
merce, says that the Government has agreed in prin-
ciple to include mutton and lamb exports within the
functions of the Empire Meat Council, but there is
no question of Australia restricting such exports
below the natural export surplus. Negotiations are
declared to be “still in their early stages.” Mr. Morri-
son, the British Minister of Agriculture, states, how-
ever, that the license system is “necessary owing to
large shipments from N.Z. and the Commonwealth.”
Mr. Thompson and his senior colleagues would
do well to pull up their socks and make sure that,
when the “early stages” have been passed, the ex-
panding mutton trade is not destroyed. In the present
state of the wool market the lamb trade, for many
sheepmen, is not merely a stick ; it has become a
crutch.
It should be pointed out firmly to British regu-
lators that the Australian woolgrower’s solvency is
important to Britain, as well as thrice important to
Australia. This season his industry is, willy nilly,
supplying the British manufacturer with thousands of
tons of wool at less than cost of production. In the
process hundreds of thousands of British mill em-
ployees are being kept in work.
The Australian Government should have back-
bone enough to mention these facts to Minister
Morrison. It will do well, for its own part, to realise
that the sheepman is in no mood to be sacrificed to a
British interest, as he was in 1936.
Spooner and His Scheme.
“There are 10,000 men working for municipal and
shire councils under the Government subsidy scheme,”
said Spooner, the self-satisfied N.S.W. Minister of
Works, before Christmas. Well-informed critics of
Spooner and his schemes have been telling the public
how this has come about and how extensions of the
schemes are minted in the active brains of Mr.
Spooner and Mr. Stevens of the Drive for National
Efficiency, the Advance on All Fronts —particularly the
Salary front. Critic No. 1 is a shire president:
For some years the State Government has been
doing its utmost to induce local councils to increase
expenditure. Money has been made available on
such cheap terms that it has been difficult to refuse.
The Main Roads Board has increased its contri-
bution for main-road maintenance and construction
from 50-50 to 2-1, and for reconstruction of main-
road bridges from 50-50 to 3-1. One result is that
bridges which would have lasted for 15 years have
been demolished and rebuilt.
Now we have the Spooner schemes. They are
half free-grant and half loan, the Government pay-
ing up to 1 p.c. towards interest, so the council gets
money at 1J p.c. In our shire unemployment has
been at a minimum for years. The Government has
been shoving money at it so fast that we can’t handle
it. Many of our works were not essential, but we
were told that if we didn’t grab the money someone
else would.
Critic No. 2 is a Newcastle man. The Govern-
ment has done a lot of bragging about the prosperity
of Newcastle and attributed it to U.A.P. policy, though
it is chiefly the result of the enterprise of Broken Hill
Prop. The critic comes in here:
Mr. Spooner was in such a hurry to start his
Greater Newcastle Council on a big-loan programme
that he submitted an item of £400,000 for it to the
Loan Council before the council itself had formulated
a borrowing scheme.
The recently-passed Hunter District Water Board
Act provides that, if the board expends loan money
to the amount of £2,335,000 over three years,
£1,712,000 of the board’s capital debt will be remitted.
If the proposed works are necessary, a wealthy city
like Newcastle should be able to pay for them without
being subsidised to the extent of practically £3 for £l.
In short, local-government bodies have been de-
moralised by this Spooner munificence, and the Loan
Council is served from Sydney with ever-increasing
demands for the wherewithal for tinpot local works,
part of them unnecessary, nearly all constructed
extravagantly. Hitherto it has complied with all these
demands, while always grumbling at them. This com-
plaisance should no longer be suffered, now that the
public has been assured by Commonwealth Minister
after Commonwealth Minister that every pound that
can be raised by taxes or borrowed is needed for
defence.
An Antidote to Goldwyn.
Like many other musical bigwigs who have visited
these shores Sir Granville Bantock has been impressed
with the warmth and freshness of Australian voices.
He heard in Adelaide and Melbourne choral singing
which he was kind enough to say was finer than any-
thing he had heard in London since the war. “Since
the war,” of course, the world, Australia included,
has been distracted from its devotion to the arts that
can be practised in the home by the cinema, which,
reinforcing those other sources of canned entertain-
ment the gramophone and the player-piano and rein-
forced in its turn by radio, occupies most of the time
youngsters can spare.
It is pleasant to be able to think that despite these
adverse influences young Australians have not lost
their aptitude for serious musical study. Whatever
the reason, this continent is a prolific producer of
beautiful voices. The pity is that so few, relatively
speaking, are properly cultivated, and even here there
is food for hope in the progress of eisteddfods and
other musical .competitions, which bring under notice
performers who otherwise might have no incentive to
cultivate their gifts.
Sir Granville Bantock wonders that Australia
should import so many musicians when it has abun-
dant musical talent of its own. So do most other out-
siders, but the fact is that all Australia’s swans are
geese till their swanhood is recognised in London, New
York or Milan. Our Nellie Melbas, Florence Australs
and Marjorie Lawrences have to be exported before
they can qualify as worth re-importing. Australians
have no faith in their own musical judgment, and
are unlikely to have any until they correct their cul-
tural perspective to the extent of paying for a national
orchestra and a national opera house. It looks also, in
view of the C 3 character of stage fare on which
we are fed, as if a few national theatres would not
be amiss.
The Chinese Melon.
“Feng-Shui”: Lieut.-Commander Fletcher, M.P., is
reported to have asserted that the Japanese are sys-
tematically debauching the Chinese with narcotics.
Manchuria and Jehol, according to the lieut.-com-
mander, have been converted into arsenals of heroin
and opium. The Japanese send army lorries laden
with drugs to all parts of the Flowery Kingdom,
“helping to defray the cost of the war” by making the
people they are fighting pay for their own demoralisa-
tion. In Hong Kong alone, the honorable and gallant
member added, there are 3000 opium and heroin
dens where 40,000 addicts consume 300,000 pills a day.
If these interesting statistics are available to the
lieut.-commander, the Hong Kong police must know
all about it, and if they know all about it, what are
the British authorities doing? Hong Kong is a British
possession.
The British and the Japanese are not demoralis-
ing the Chinese. The Chinese have been demoralising
themselves for centuries —by ignorance. Their ignor-
ance produced famine, floods, pestilence, civil wars
and chronic poverty. For the lieut.-commander to
blame anything extraneous to the Chinese for the piti-
able state which he alleges they are in is to give the
Chinese every excuse for going on demoralising them-
selves. He might as well blame Nature for having
demoralised the pterodactyl and the gigantosaurus out
of existence.
For upwards of 100 years China has been sub-
jected to invasion and violence, diplomatic and mili-
tary. Her religious and political ideas have been turned
topsy-turvy ; her social system —one of the most primi-
tive in history—has been completely upended and the
family system, with its village crafts and crude
economy, has been supplanted by all the paraphernalia
of modern financial and industrial regulation. If the
Chinese themselves were capable of producing these
results of their inventive faculty during a period when
it was a commonplace for. European newspapers to
talk of the cutting up of the Chinese melon, why
may not their present difficulties act as an even greater
stimulus to invention?
The salient fact about human beings is that any-
thing that gives them a feeling of insecurity can act
as a stimulus to the effort that will make them feel
secure again. When China got security behind the
Great Wall of her isolation, she went to sleep. When
Western invaders found her sleeping all they wanted
to do was to pick her pocket. ' But they woke her up
in the process, and all the Japanese may be doing is
waking her up more thoroughly. It may require a
good many more tons of narcotics than are given in
the lieut.-commander’s statistics to send her off again.
—
"Road Toll Stirs Bruxner."
“El V.”: It would be better if public opinion did a
bit of stirring. In Christmas week, 1937, Mr. Bruxner
introduced a new system of speed limits for N. S.
Wales—3o m.p.h. for built-up town areas ; 50 m.p.h.,
at the driver’s risk, outside. The praises of this
system —to the common eye about as much regarded
as the s.p. laws of yesteryear —were sung throughout
the year. But in Christmas week, 1938, between Dec.
24 and 28, 15 persons were killed in road accidents
and a small army injured.
Says Mr. Bruxner:
Lack of ordinary road courtesy and driving sense is
the cause of a large percentage. All these accidents
and deaths are very discouraging in view of the extensive
education of the motorist which the police, the Trans-
port Department and I have carried out. It must be
remembered that traffic has been unduly heavy, and that
many new drivers were on the roads going to places
they had never visited before.
It is my luck to cross the Sydney police license
test course every morning. It consists of a mile or
two of quiet stretch in the Domain where there
is little or no traffic —all I saw in an investi-
gatory test a year ago was one cart. Every morning
I see aspiring motorists on that course, having a little
practice preparatory to “going to places they have
never visited before.”
One morning’s sample will serve. The driver
was a very nervous lady in a 1924 model car; an
equally nervous escort occasionally yanked at the
wheel.
Four times I watched her go round the course,
reverse out of the wide street, stop on the empty hill
and start from the handbrake —an occupation which
took quarter of an hour once and nearly ended in
disaster ; once, out of the Domain and down a few
hundred yards of empty Macquarie-street. When the
lady can stagger through the routine with something
like confidence, she will teeter through it with a police-
man and she will be licensed, virtually for life, since
she will be able to get further licenses without test.
Perhaps in a 16-cylinder Cadillac, she will meander into
a George-street full of weary taxi-drivers, of mellow
holiday-makers, of dashing delivery vans serving the
needs of a “champagne New Year,” of country visitors
ignorant of the city—places in which experienced
drivers tremble. This irrespective of the fact that 50
miles on a clear road would reduce her to complete
inefficiency of nerve and vision, like any other
neophyte.
Let Mr. Bruxner adopt this scheme and he will
save a few lives:
Put the license fee (now 10s.) up to £5, with less for
renewals. This would deter the yob of 18 who buys
a car for a fiver off a junkheap and merely intends to
joyride.
Establish six or seven test courses of 50 miles, starting
from Sydney Dpmain, the prospective licensee, at the
beginning, to be ignorant of the course to be followed.
Driving should be done during medium-traffic hours and
at speeds up to the maximums permitted by the law.
Any driver who can show that he or she can safely take
a car through Sydney traffic to Lapstone, Burragorang
heights or Kurrajong, observing the regulations and not
showing unreasonable fatigue, is fit to drive—if careful.
The test should be made on cars which are to
be driven as a regular thing by applicants for licenses,
and those cars should have been examined and passed.
"Obscene" Literature in Melbourne.
“Pa wang” discusses a problem:
When police action was taken in Melbourne to determine
the scope of the amended legislation relating to obscene publi-
cations, McLean, P.M., was brought up standing against a
problem that has puzzled jurists since the Middle Ages.
With the usual caution of the politician, the lawmakers have
seen to it that there is no definition of the word “obscene”
in the Act as amended. In the absence of Parliamentary
guidance the P.M. resorted to Webster’s Dictionary. He might
as well have appealed to a tiger-snake.
According to Webster’s, “obscene” is “what is offensive to
chastity or modesty; expressing to the mind or view something
that delicacy, purity and decency forbid to be exposed.” The
flaw in the definition is that mind or view is taken for granted.
It can’t be taken for granted.
If I look at an egg before a party it may seem a
delicious object. The same egg after a party may nauseate
me. The egg has not changed. I have. If 1 were to believe
implicitly in my feelings I would have to say that it was a
different egg. It is not a different egg, but I am a different
individual, and a different individual sees a different egg.
Ten years ago in Bali semi-nudity was the rule for
women. After American shipping lines had popularised the
island for the tourist the women of Bali started to cover
up their bodies. What had once been chaste and pure had
become unchaste and impure. Something that delicacy, purity
and decency allowed to be exposed, delicacy, purity and
decency now forbade to be exposed. The something had not
changed, but the minds of the people had.
Or take the opposite example. A few years ago a man
bather who exposed his body to the middle on any of the
bayside beaches about Melbourne would have been regarded
as exposing something that delicacy, purity and decency for-
bade to be exposed. This year he can expose it, without the
slightest fear of being regarded as indelicate, impure or
indecent, except by a few people whom everybody else would
regard as old fogeys. Delicacy, purity and decency now regard
as pure something they formerly regarded as impure, and
if Melbourne delicacy, purity and decency go on changing
their minds the Melbourne beaches will soon not be safe for
a Balinese.
It might be said that what is legally obscene is what is
regarded as such by a majority of the community at any
given time. But in any community at any given time, what
is regarded as obscene varies as enormously and as quaintly
as it does from one period to another. A painter may exhibit
a painting of a female nude, but not of a male nude. A
sculptor may model and exhibit a male nude and a female
nude; and the general public, even clerical gentlemen, may
and do attend such exhibitions. But similar exhibitions
must not be made in the flesh on St. Kilda beach or in
Collins-street.
It is true that there are in bookshops pictures and
books -that a magistrate would doubtless regard as obscene.
The radical fault in them is not bad morality but bad art;
in the worst examples there is not as much of what is cur-
rently regarded as obscenity as there is in Rodin’s sculpture
or in Shakspeare’s works.
In these circumstances, how is a puzzled P.M. to be
expected to adjudicate on what is obscene in art and litera-
ture?


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“D.E.”: As I fold up my newspaper,
dated January 2, and reflect on the holi-
days, I seem to have looked at the
counterfeit presentments of a million
girls. Girls in shorts, girls in slacks,
girls in “costumes” combining the maxi-
mum of revelation with the minimum of
police requirements, all posing for the
photographer and me and the rest of the
four million, and sporting the set smirk
which lipstick imposes on its willing
victims. Members of the Balsam Beach
set, lasses from the ’aberdash. and the
pickle-factory; overdeveloped matrons,
underdeveloped maids. As the old song
has it, “back and thigh go bare, go
bare,” and so, of course, do arms and
armpits, and all manner of calves and —
where 1938 models are affected
tummies. For a mere three-ha’pence my
newspaper will bring to me, through the
noble medium of photography and in the
process of Giving the Public What the
Public Wants, intimate “studies” of ladies
innumerable, views of vast expanses of
female flesh in all previous ages con-
cealed from all except mothers, sisters
and husbands. Doesn’t it amount to a
social revolution?
* * * *
“Bohemian”: One of the Maoriland
Boy Scouts attending the big Sydney jam-
boree —he hails from New Plymouth—
has a pair of artificial legs. As a boy
of ten, following an accident, he had
his legs amputated below the knees, and
wooden legs and rubber feet were sub-
stituted. He can run, swim, jump and
play Rugger football. Marching at the
head of his company (he is an officer)
he has not the slightest appearance of
being crippled.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: The proposed
revival of the crinoline deserves all
encouragement by Governments in the
interests of the women and children who,
according to cheerful professors, will be
wiped out wholesale by gas attacks at an
early date. Constructed of gas-proof
material over light steel rings, with an
adjustable flap to cover what I understand
was termed the placket, where grand-
mamma’s waist went through, what better
shelter could be wanted, however sudden
the attack? No really decent crinoline
was under 4ft. diameter, so mother and
the one-child family of to-day, also the
Peke, would have ample room to curl up.
Air-supply from above gas-level could be
obtained by footless rubber stockings
with joints at the ankles, held up by
the pork-pie hat of the period adapted
as a small helium-filled balloon. I hand
over the idea to Mr. W. M. Hughes,
with all best wishes.
* * * *
“Ex-R.N.”: So 145 Macquarie-street—
the Warrigal Club of another day—is to
be used for B.M.A. purposes. I first
entered its portals as an hon. member in
1900, when it was the last remaining
Sydney club to extend such privilege to
the gunroom. The Union, in those days,
was the resort of four-ring men —assur-
edly no place for inferior marine speci-
mens. Lesser sorts, except midshipmen
and their kind, had the entree of most
other clubs, the old Athenaeum being
most frequented, especially by the hail-
fellow-well-met variety of n.o. At No.
145 the youngsters of the fleet were not
unduly exposed to the temptation to lead
devil-may-care lives; the members, as I
remember them, were of the dour and
grey-bearded type —the sort that peered
solemnly at you over the tops of spec-
tacles when an involuntary but hearty
guffaw had broken an atmosphere usually
saturated with silence. But those elderly
pioneer settlers were decent to naval
urchins, whose presence must have jarred
them many a time. Later the Padres’
Club (the Broughton, in Phillip-street)
admitted gunroom officers. It was run
on more rollicking lines, and often
passers-by must have wondered why a
party of parsons should be vociferously
inviting their Bonnies over the ocean to
come back to them.
* * * *
“Key”: It seems extraordinary that the
authorities of the time did not select the
plains outside Goulburn (N.S.W.) as the
site of the Federal capital. The spot has
everything Canberra has—hills, rivers and
flat land, and possesses in addition the
immense advantage of being on the road
to somewhere. That is Canberra’s great
drawback. It is isolated, and to get to
it one has to travel a dreary rail journey
from the main Sydney-Melbourne line or
make an equally uninteresting tour by
road. Hundreds of visitors who would
take a Federal capital near Goulburn in
their stride, and probably stay a day or
so, balk at the long detour to Canberra.
And there’s very little to do when one
“Step on it, Basil! Let's get in front of those silly commodores and give them our Wash!"
gets there. The politicians have dis-
covered that. A city that’s on the way
to nowhere is tremendously handicapped.
* * * *
“Perry”: When the lady at the bottom
of our street won first prize in a lottery
the neighborhood prophesied for her an
unenviable time with begging letters and
supplicants for charitable aid. But she
was not perturbed. Tossing aside the
letters she donned an apron, fixed an
improvised cap round her head and pre-
pared to deal with her visitors. To each
one she, as the maid in charge, reported
her mistress absent for the purpose of
recovering from the shock of the win.
When would the winner return? Prob-
ably in about ten days, was the reply
“And by that time,” said the resourceful
one grimly, “the result of another lottery
will be out and they’ll be chasing another
winner.”
* * * *
“Louis M.”: Dalgety’s big new motor
showrooms at Woolloomooloo retain on
the main door an ornate brass knocker
that came from one of the terrace of
houses torn down to make room for the
edifice. An engraved brass plate records
the origin of the relic. A lot of Sydney
history could be saved if every destroyer
of a landmark did the same.
* * * *
“Pardon Me”: Tell “Colonel Bung-
starter” (B. 21/12/’3B) that troop-
ing the color (no j) is not a
guard-mounting ceremony, but that it
continues a custom which was begun
at least 200 years before it was linked
with guard-mounting at all. Actually, it
derives from the ceremony of “Lodging
the Color,” to which reference can be
traced as far back as 1591 —in Sir John
Smith’s work on military matters. Dur-
ing the eighteenth century it was cus-
tomary for the drummers to beat a piece
of drum music called “A Troop” while
the lodging party performed its evolu-
tions, and gradually the word “trooping”
displaced “lodging.” The Duke of Cum-
berland did not issue the first orders
which defined the ceremony, for the
present ceremony follows the seventeenth-
century model so exactly that, beyond a
difference in weapons and uniform, it is
almost unchanged. Cumberland did,
however, associate trooping the color
with guard-mounting in his order to the
Brigade of Guards (May 15, 1755), hence
the popular confusion. Trooping the
color is not a daily ceremony. It is never
held at either St. James’s or Buckingham
Palace. The ceremony is performed on
the King’s birthday only, and takes place
only on the Horse Guards Parade.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The Hoddle Bridge,
just opened over the Yarra Yarra, a mile
above Prince’s Bridge, has some special
features. Although no great whale of a
bridge, it has 85ft. beam spans, the
longest yet attempted in Australia. The
concrete deck and beams were sheathed
in Victorian hardwood, and 190 men
worked in shifts for 117 hours to make
the concrete-casting a continuous opera-
tion. The wood when removed was as
good as new. The Thomas Hoddle from
whom the bridge gets its name was Vic-
toria’s first Surveyor-General, who, with
Governor Bourke, laid down the first
plan of Melbourne. He also conducted
the first land sale, and to demonstrate
his faith in the future of the city took a
block in Elizabeth-street in lieu of his
commission of £56. The block was worth
a quarter Of a million when he died in
1881. The new bridge cost £BO,OOO.
“Ex-Mister”: The 16,000-ton P. and O.
Australian liner Naldera, recently sold to
the breakers, had some purple patches in
her life. Laid down early in 1914, she
was partly framed up when the war
stopped work on her for three years.
Pushed for cargo-bottoms by the 1917
submarine menace, the Government
ordered her completion as a freighter. It
was just finished when the brasshats
decided to convert her for troop-carrying.
A costly rush job turned her out as the
latest thing in troopers, but before she
could be handed over another brain-
wave surged over Whitehall, and the
astonished ship found herself being
gutted completely for reconstruction as
an aircraft carrier. Just as she was ready
for her new walk in life the war ended
and she underwent another sea-change
back to her original peaceful purpose.
Curiously enough, her last job was an-
other washout. She shipped the British
Legion force for the evacuation of
Sudetenland, and put them ashore after
three days in the Thames.
* * » *
“X.S.”: Science, art, domestic economy
and private enterprise have made great
inroads on the old Melbourne Gaol in
Russell-street. What remains of the grey-
stone building is buried to-day in a
hodge-podge of annexes to the Working-
men’s College—beg pardon, the Mel-
bourne Technical. One of the vaults has
been turned into a cafe adorned with
frescoes by pupils of the Applied Arts
School, the men’s exercise yard is a
repository of old aeroplanes and motor-
cars, and the women’s exercise yard is
a garden close where resident pupils
of the Emily McPherson College of
Domestic Economy sit knitting in the
sunshine. The main block is an art centre
conducted by the Education Department,
and the chapel with its exit, which led
straight to the gallows, is a gallery for
State school art teachers. On some of the
cell doors can still be seen the calenders
kept by condemned men—“ Going hang
to-morrow, not sorry” is one laconic
pencilled comment. The outer wall, out-
side which 10,000 people knelt for two
hours and prayed for a last-minute
reprieve when Colin Ross was sent to his
Maker, now forms the Williainstown
breakwater, and goodness knows where
the remains of the hanged, which were
unearthed by a giant scoop during the
excavations, have gone to. Despite its
grim purpose, the old place was archi-
tecturally harmonious and beautiful,
down to the smallest detail. The Tech,
students are being educated in buildings
of marvellous ugliness.
* * * *
“Koura”: Maoriland is having one of
those outbursts of the fantastic that in
Australia have set grown men dashing
about the countryside on tricycles or
playing billiards along the highways. The
famous history of the man who hatched
an e BS Waikato Hospital was cabled
to Australia, and since then two young
Wellington women took turns in pushing
each other in a go-cart from a suburb to
the city railway station. I trust that the
subtle relationship between the two inci-
dents and the problem of underpopulation
wd l have its effect on my laggard fellow-
countrymen,
* * * *
“Dhas”: Struck the word “bruskly” in
a book by Maorilander Peter Buck, and
thought it a misprint for “briskly” ; but
Vikings of the Sunrise is put out by an
American publisher and the word, mean-
ing “brusquely,” joins the kweer kueue
of Yankee spelling reforms. It’s not
such a bad-looking woid, at that. Web-
ster gave it precedence to “brusquely” in
an edition as long ago as 1874, but it
didn’t stick.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The ghost of Scrooge walked
in Melbourne at Christmas. A writ for
final judgment in connection with a small
debt was waiting at the Law Courts when
officials opened their mail on Wednesday
morning. It must have been prepared
on Christmas Eve or Christmas Day.
* * * *
“S.”: What I most admire about Henry
Parkes as a versifier (B. 28/12/’3B) is the
dedication to his Political and Other
Verses :
The Verses Under This Head
containing
Records of Feeling
Scattered Over Fifteen Years
Are Dedicated
to the
3057
Electors of Sydney
Who Returned the Author
to the
Legislative Assembly
March 13, 1856.
No doubt the 3057 electors of Sydney
were duly impressed. The book shows
how seriously Parkes took his politics;
plenty of politicians to-day utter noble
sentiments about election time, but
Parkes felt so deeply about his respon-
sibilities that they stung him to verse:
As we acquit ourselves to-day
And vindicate the voter’s trust
So shall we the foundations lay
For Freedom’s temple o’er our dust.
“Then who,” he continued fierily, “would
yield to base intent,”
In choosing our first Parliament —
In planting Freedom’s mustard-grain?
Politics had some condiments about them
in those days! England, to Parkes, inci-
dentally, was not the gentle “Mother-
land” it has become, but a stern and
rather Germanic “Fatherland.”
THE SAME TO YOU!
“The same to you!” How many lips
Do you suppose have framed the phrase
That goes with hearty manual grips
And, oft as not, with parting nips
These all-too-soon-concluded days?
“Here’s all the best!” 1 hear you cry,
And, couched in words as straight and few,
Comes the traditional reply:
“The same to you!”
“A bright and prosperous New Year”
The cards invoke. So mote it be
For all in the exuberance sheer
Of youth, to those who’re getting near
The placidness of age, like me!
So, from the Yarra to the Swan,
From Wantabadgery to Cue,
Whatever fields you may be on,
“The same to you!”
You wish me luck, 1 hope I may
Be sure, for whom so many a time,
Blithe or satiric, grave or gay,
I’ve hammered out an artless lay
Or strove to build a tinkling rhyme.
And, in the glamor and the glow
Of just another year that’s new,
Greetings, my sons, and “Cheerio!
The same to you!”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Sally”: “Y’ need t’ be careful who
you take up with these days,” said our
charlady bitterly. “It was two days
before Christmas, an’ when I finished up
a job down by the railway I went into
a tearoom for a cupper tea. They was
just about closing up, an’ the only woman
there, all got up with paint an’, lipstick,
says as how I’d better sit at her table to
let the girls clear up the rest. So I did,
an’ soon we was laughing fit t’ kill our-
selves. Then she says she must go, an’
a merry Christmas, an’ I went on with
me tea. The girl gave me a ticket, an’
when I puts down me shillin’ at the desk
the woman there says ‘Three, please.’
‘But I had only tea an’ sanwitchers,’ I
says. ‘Yes, but y’ friend had more. Hers
come to two shillings. She had ham an’
salad an’ apple-pie an’ cream, an’ says
you had invited her to tea, but was kep’
late, and she hlad to go but you would
pay.’ ‘Not me,’ I says. Then a man
come in, an’ everybody started talkin’
an’ shoutin’ at once, an’ I says I never
seen the woman before an’ hope I never
do again, an’ the man says something
about a put-up game, an’ I says ‘Not too
much o’ that,’ an’ he says ‘You seemed
very friendly together,’ an’ I says ‘That
sort is always friendly ; it pays them,’ an’
the girl says ‘Let her go, it’s Christmas,’
an’ I says ‘Christmas or no, I’m an honest
woman an’ don’t want no nonsense from
you, an’ here’s my shillin’, take it or leave
it,’ an’ the man says, ‘Well, I’ll toss yer
fer it,’ an’ he tossed an’ I won. But if
I ever see that woman again”
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Decided by S.A. Supreme
Court that it is not “trivial” for a hotel-
keeper if visitors are entertained, on his
premises in a bedroom after midnight,
though he himself be asleep. The judg-
ment, however, was a near thing. The
S.M. had certified the offence as. trivial,
and one Judge thought so too, the lapse
being “unintentional and inadvertent” ;
but two Judges held that it was a duty
to see that people were not admitted, and
that “to fall asleep while on watch could
not be regarded as a trivial breach of
duty.”
* * * *
“Morehead”: The Sydney “Mail,”
which ceased publication last week, first
saw the light on July 7, 1860, and was
the outcome of a suggestion by Charles
Fairfax. It was at the beginning an
eight-page paper of the broadsheet order,
a sort of weekly resume of the news that
had appeared in the “S. M. Herald.”
Until 1876, when the
price was raised to 6d.,
it was first a 3d. and
then a 4d. paper, and it
commenced with a cir-
culation of 1000, which
grew to 5000 within six
months. Illustrations
did not appear until
1871 —it was a 32-page
paper by then —and the
first drawing depicted a
prize bull. Many names
since well known,
among them those of
Julian Ashton, Percy
Spence, Fred Leist, J. S.
Watkins and Douglas
Fry, appear as signa-
tures to early “Mail”
drawings. William Mac-
leod, afterwards of The
Bulletin, was one of its first engravers;
the names of Montague Scott and C. H.
Hunt, other early Bulletin artists, also
appeared in its pages. With the intro-
duction of half-tone reproductions of
pictures the “Mail” went ahead. W. H.
Traill, who afterwards edited The Bul-
letin, was an early chief. W. R. Charl-
ton, who was in the chair when the old
paper went out, had been editor since
1905.
“To the devil with you, Prendergast, and your snoring !”
“Vieux Marcheur”: One of those
bright lads who supply Sydney journals
with news of the London clubs tells a
tale of Asquith being halted by a poster
of “The Lights of London” —a “musical
show of that name,” as the gay dog about
town explains. “The Lights,” like many
other good honest plays from the same
pen, was mid-Victorian melodrama, and
as such made its way to Australasia in
the ’nineties. The author was G. R.
Sims, a journalist playwright of credit
and renown in those days.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: If a miner lost the
sight of his left eye in an accident and
subsequently lost the sight of the right
in another accident, did his second acci-
dent render him totally incapacitated,
from the point of view of eyesight? The
plain man would unhesitatingly answer
in the affirmative, but Judge Stretton had
to listen to a lengthy disputation between
learned counsel on the knotty question
before he could give judgment in a
workers’ compensation case during
Christmas week in Melbourne. Defend-
ing counsel for the Railways Commis-
sion argued that the miner had not lost
an only eye, but merely the sight of one
eye by the accident, from the medical
point of view there being still some sight
in the left eye. ’Sonah held that “sight”
had to be interpreted industrially, not
medically, and there was not enough
sight in the left eye for it to be useful
for any occupation. He therefore ruled
that, when the miner lost the sight of his
right eye, he had already lost the sight
of his left eye, and consequently had
lost the sight of an only eye.
* * * *
A party of carol singers, im-
bued with the Christmas spirit, started
singing “Good King Wenceslaus” and
other ancient numbers in Collins-street,
Melbourne, at that hallowed end where
the doctors hang out their shingles. They
had hardly got going when a police-
man emerged from the shadows of the
deserted city. “You can’t sing here,” he
said, confronting the leader. “Why not?”
she said. “Is there a law against it?”
“This is Collins-street,” repeated the John
Hop. “You can’t sing in Collins-street.
You can sing in Little Bourke, but
you can’t sing in Collins-street.” “Can
we sing in Little Lon.?” asked the
leader. “You can sing in Little Lon.
if you like, but you can’t sing in Collins-
street.” “Why?.” asked the leader. “Isn’t
it respectable to sing in Collins-street?”
“That’s it, I suppose,” said the man in
blue. “Then it’s more respectable to
sing in Little Lon.?” persisted the leader.
“That’s enough,” said the John, becoming
heated. “Are you going to move on
or do I have to make you?”
* * * *
“Liam”.: So far as centenaries go,
there will be an average number of events
to celebrate in Australia and ML. this
year. In May, 1839, Edward Gibbon
Wakefield and his friends formed the
£lOO,OOO New Zealand Co. for colonis-
ing the territory, and the ship Tory left
England with the first batch of settlers
“ Didn't I tell you to mend that hole in the fence?”
under the leadership of
Wakefield’s brother
William. This action
led to the boundaries
of N. S. Wales being
officially extended on
June 15, 1839, to in-
clude such portions of
M.L. as the Crown
might acquire and the
sending of Captain Wil-
liam Hobson as Lieu-
tenant-Governor. The
same year Charles
Latrobe arrived as
superintendent of what
is now Melbourne. On
July 9, 1839, H.M.S.
Beagle, under Captain
J. Lort Stokes, dis-
covered the Adelaide
River ; in October she
entered the Victoria
River, and a survey was
conducted by Stokes
and Wickham, who re-
ported favorably upon
it. That is something
for Darwin to cele-
brate. Explorer Eyre,
while on an expedition
from Adelaide to
Mount Arden, north of
Spencer Gulf, discov-
ered Lake Torrens in
the same year, and in
.1839 Count de Strze-
lecki discovered traces
of gold both in pyrites
near Hartley and in quartz near Wel-
lington. Governor Gipps “censored”
the news, believing it would make
almost impossible the maintenance of dis-
cipline among the 45,000 convicts then
in Australia.
* * * *
“T.”: Considering the vogue of Shirley
Temple, Jane Withers, Deanna Durbin,
Freddie Bartholomew, Bobby Breen and
the rest, I wonder our Australian film-
makers don’t try to develop an infant
phenomenon or two. Personally, I can’t
stand the brats, but from the box-office
standpoint there is no arguing against
the craze for them ; and before the native
showman ignobly surrendered to the
flicks this country produced plenty of
kids just as smart. One Tom Pollard
used to gather them up by the score and
take them round Australia and to South
Africa, playing musical comedy. Imita-
tors followed, and about the beginning
of the century there were too many in
the field ; but Pollard always made the
business pay—and many of his kids were
astonishingly clever. Nearly all the girls
married young, so it wasn’t required of
them to train on ; but some of the boys
did, notably Willie Percy, Harry Quealy
and Jack Ralston. I wish we had actors
like them now.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: An extraordinary ex-
tension has been given to motor-accident
insurance at Manchester, Eng., where a
woman aged 49 was awarded £2500
damages for shock sustained, through wit-
nessing a truck and a car collide.
According to a high authority this makes
it tenable for 100 people to apply for
compensation if they can prove suffer-
ing as a result of being in the vicinity
of a similar experience. A further ex-
tension could logically be given to the
meaning of “in the vicinity.” In another
English case relatives of a deceased per-
son whose hearse had been run into by a
tram lost a claim for damages, but the
Court granted leave to appeal on the
ground that mental suffering involved as
much damage as a broken leg.
* * * *
“Ming”: To collectors of all and sun-
dry add our landlady, who, like “C.B.’s”
landlord (B. 28-/12/’3B), picks up every
ownerless trifle she meets. The results
of her scavenging she keeps in a large
basement room under her own flat, and
all tenants are welcome to search this
store for missing possessions. While
the ladies of the building become pally
in the washhouse on the roof the men
fraternise in the basement, where they
seek wood to put up shelves for the
missus, odd wheels to fit on the kids’
scooters, screws, nails and every house-
hold implement imaginable. It’s no un-
common thing on a wet day to see a
businessman who has left his umbrella
at the office snatching an ancient gamp
from the basement, and I shall never
forget the joy of a housewife, whose elec-
tric flatiron went out of commission just
as she began to use it, when she un-
earthed a usable connection from among
the debris. Nor the ecstasy of two staid
citizens when they discovered an un-
opened bottle of beer in a corner. “You’re
welcome,” said the landlady when its dis-
covery was made known to her. “I picked
it up in the park when I was coming
home a week ago. I s’pose it’s all right.”
Two thirsty samplers pronounced it the
finest ever.
FIT AS A FIDDLE.
“Rebutting’ a suggestion that his advancing years
might necessitate an early retirement, Mr. Lyons
declared that he was as fit as a fiddle.”
It’s a canard, a base taradiddle,
To hint that old age’s approach
Would give him a jolt in the middle
Of his job on the box of the coach,
When he’s feeling as fit as a fiddle,
As sound as a roach.
Of the woes and the worries that warp us
In cities, how little he kens
Who’s basking, carefree as a porpoise,
In the waves, or a trout in the glens,
And keeping as sanum his corpus
As sana his mens.
These sour innuendoes miscarry,
Don’t matter a rap or a fig;
The shrewdest of thrusts you can parry,
And counter the deadliest dig,
When you’re feeling as happy as Larry
And glad as a grig.
Your thumbs you can carelessly twiddle
At all on your coverts who’d poach,
With quiet contempt you can riddle
Rash souls on your job who’d encroach,
As long as you’re fit as a fiddle,
And sound as a roach.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


CRAVENA
C/
El 868
10 for *°
20 for 1/6
j
ĵ
v ***v';
M
SPECIALLY
3D
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
Lyons has put Pearce on the Grants
Commission —for three years at £2OO p.a.,
plus £5 ss. per sitting, plus travelling
expenses. “Parliament,” the P.M. ex-
plains, “has shown an unwillingness to
reconstitute the Inter-State Commission,
and we had to do something for George.”
No, he didn’t say that, but everyone will
understand that he meant it.
Mr. Secretary Ickes, whom Republi-
cans denounce as a vessel of wrath, has
been indulging his talent for invective at
the expense of the German Government,
and his own Government has backed him
up. No doubt the U.S.A. can afford to
bandy words with military Powers, but it
would be a dreadful disservice to the
English-speaking world if Ickes drove
Germany into the arms of the Japanese,
as Eden drove Italy into the arms of the
Germans.
Friday’s “S. M. Herald” records that
Japanese are drawing large supplies of
“Australia has undertaken a great rearmament programme without thought of aggression. We mean peace and want peace.”
The P.M., broadcasting from Devonport (Tas.).
“Why should any nation tremble? Haven’t we shut up Parliament for four months?”
iron and nickel ore from New Caledonia.
This when Port Kembla is idle because
a few-score wharf-laborers have for
several weeks boycotted the export of a
bit of pig-iron to Japan, in the process
holding up one of fhose dwindling
British merchantmen. It is far more im-
portant to the Japanese that they should
get uninterrupted supplies of lead and
zinc than that they should lift a bit of
pig-iron—they can buy pig-iron almost
anywhere—and these uninterrupted sup-
plies they have been getting. The Kembla
business is just another of those crazy
Communist stunts, and good Australian
workers are the worst sufferers.
Westralians expect that there will be
another Country-party Premier (their
first, which his name is Latham) after
the March elections. Labor has been in
office for 12 of the last 15 years. During
the last session it made a very poor
showing, giving a lifelike picture of a
house divided against itself, and in the
end letting the other place toss out its
proposal for the amalgamation of the
income and unemployed-relief taxes. But
the arrangement of seats favors it so
greatly that it hopes to scrape back.
During the Christmas holidays 56 Aus-
tralians were killed and about thrice
the number injured in two States
—chiefly in accidents on the road
and in the sea. Under the influence
of what blither-papers call “the holi-
day spirit” people ordinarily sane and
decent risk their lives and the lives of
others in ways utterly mad. Perhaps it
has become a national duty to take more
water —voluntarily and internally—with
“the holiday spirit.”
Justice Evatt is back from the U.S.A.
full of admiration for the Americans,
their Constitution (on which our “Federal
system was carefully and wisely
modelled”), their “intense opposition to
Hitlerism,” which is shared by even “the
cities peopled largely by German immi-
grants,” and their President. His Honor
omitted to mention that, because of the
Constitution he admires so much, the
President has been reduced to trying to
pack a Bench, and to pretending that
farmers subsidised in pursuance of his
agricultural policy are paid “to combat
soil erosion.” Such shifts and subter-
fuges never have to be resorted to in
countries where one Parliament is
supreme.
Chamberlain has become “a danger-
ous agitator” to “Pertinax,” the French
newspaperman. In 1922, when the French
were predominant on the Continent, they
contemptuously refused to help the
British against the Turks in Gallipoli,
and Poincare was so rude to the ailing
Curzon that Curzon burst into tears.
Now, with French influence back to what
it was in 1873 or thereabouts, politicians
like Blum and paper-stainers like “Per-
tinax” imagine that the British Empire
can be dragged into a French quarrel
whenever they give the word. Chamber-
lain or Lyons or Mackenzie King should
undeceive them.
N.S.W. Premier Stevens, Ministers
Bruxner, Manning and Drummond and
stacks of civil servants having had long
trips abroad, another has been arranged
for the Health Minister, FitzSimons, and
the Government Architect. FitzSimons is
one of seven Health Ministers, and his
excuse for the jaunt has the ingenuous-
ness of youth:
I understand that a number of the
European countries, including Britain and
the U.S.A., have spent very large sums in
the last few years on hospitals.
The taxpayer understands only too well
that he will have to foot very large bills
for FitzSimons and his travelling com-
panion.
McNamara, Federal Labor’s secretary,
who is a Victorian M.L.C., has recalled
in a newspaper article that, when the
Afrikanders decided to struggle out of
the chaos in which the Boer War had left
them, they looked to this country for
advice.
A memorandum prepared by the Federal
Attorney-General was transmitted. South
Africa adopted a unified form of govern-
ment.
Very wisely. Federalism would very pos-
sibly have involved the two races in a
civil war.
The accounts of the seven Govern-
ments for five months of the financial
year show that expenditure (£86,680,000)
exceeded revenue (£77,128,000) by
£9,552,000. The position is £3,659,000
worse than for the same period of 1937,
and all the Governments will try to ex-
tort more taxes if they think that the
people will stand them.
A.B.C. continues to employ, as foreign-
affairs experts, “The Botchmann,” Mr.
Kurt Offenberg and other gentlemen
who take war-scare “news” as gospel
and tell us We Must Be Up and Doing.
Commentators with other ( e.g pro-
Chamberlain) views remain unheard.
The English critic who suggested that
“there can be few other living writers
who are as ignorant of anything as
Madame Tabouis is of everything” must
be enjoying Madame’s latest. In con-
junction with “Pertinax,” she discovered
“a heavy massing of Italian troops on the
frontier of French Somaliland” (“Per-
tinax” found “about 500 installed 20
miles over the frontier”) and another
example of Albion’s perfidy:
Britain is urging France to submit the
question to the International Court of Jus-
tice.
The French Government denied the
whole story. War-scare artists “explain”
that it is because the French Government
denies everything. A very good policy
when there are so many persons like
“Pertinax” and La Tabouis about.
From Molongloside:
Canberra has never seen an unluckier piece of
legislation than Health and Pensions Insurance.
It was introduced by Casey on May 3, 1938,
with the assurance that it would begin to operate
on January 1, 1939, a date since deferred to
“some time in September.” The thing has been
the cause of several wrangles in Cabinet and
party rooms, and has led to threats of Minis-
terial resignations. Doctors were hostile from the
beginning. In the hope of placating them, Deth-
ridge, J., was commissioned to inquire into their
grievances. After travelling from State to State,
the B.M.A.’s two counsel and three assistants
were killed in the Kyeema crash on October 25.
Now Dethridge, J., is dead, and what’s going
to happen to Health and Pensions Insurance no
man can say.
If foreign potentates ever read Sydney
dailies they must marvel at some of the
remarks attributed to them by the tribe
of Special Representatives, Diplomatic
Correspondents and the like. For ex-
ample, an observation ascribed to Roose-
velt by the “Daily News,” the theme
being “Dr. Schacht’s formula of putting
a ransom price on the liberty of German
Jews”:
The United States fought a Civil War
to abolish slave-buying, and does not pro-
pose to revert to such barbarism in 1938.
There would be no Solid South for the
Democratic party if any Democratic
leader dared to say that “barbarism”
was the cause for which Lee and his
soldiers fought for four years. But no
Democratic leader ever would say it.
“Without contradiction,” a French
newspaper has “disclosed a sensational
lag in military aircraft output”—deliver-
ies of only 240 machines in six months,
whereas planned production is 2400 a
year. That is only part of the story.
The aircraft factories were nationalised
and placed under the control of Minister
Cot, a great Leaguer, Sanctionist and
Friend of Russia. M. Cot introduced
the 40-hour week. In the result not
only has output gone to pot but French
machines are inferior to British, German
and Italian. In a carefully arranged
race from Paris to Damascus, Italian
’planes beat the French out of sight.
The able conductor of “S. M. Herald’s”
Local Government column reports that
the Strathfield Council’s almost-unique
C.O.D. policy is threatened, and that by
the buses that the anti-socialist Stevens
put on the roads. On works and build-
ings Strathfield owes only £llB4, and it
planned to wipe that off by December,
1941 ; but double-decker buses roaring
into the municipality are wrecking its
roads, and the council has been advised to
spend £lOO,OOO on remaking them in con-
crete. It proposes to take a ratepayers’
poll. The Stevens-Spooner idea is that
ratepayers should be ignored when their
convictions conflict with loan-drunk
policies.
As raw a tax-ramp as Australia can
show is the Logan Bridge on the Pacific
Highway between Brisbane and the
South Coast (Q.) holiday resorts—also the
main arterial highway to N.S.W. It cost
£25,196 six years ago, and has already
yielded the Brisbane Government over
£lOO,OOO from the toll on motor vehicles,
Is. each way. Last year eight road
tolls brought in £23,037, of which users of
the Logan Bridge contributed £18,431.
The reply to numerous protests has been
that the money is needed to maintain the
Pacific Highway, although licenses, regis-
trations and petrol tax are supposed to
do that for all main roads.


“I’VE REALLY BEEN WORKING TOO HARD THIS YEAR.”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
<P
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
WHAT WILL 1939 BRING?
POSITION IN MAORILAND
SURVEY OF SHARE AND OTHER
MARKET PROSPECTS
January Issue on Sale Next Saturday.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
PERSONAL ITEM S
New Year honors for Australia fall
into the usual channels; trade, politics,
law and medicine get knighthoods, and
lesser degrees are distributed among
members of the fighting services and
civilians who have done public work.
Political knights are Commonwealth
Solicitor-General G. S. Knowles, N. S.
Wales Attorney-General H. E. Manning,
Vic. Minister of Public Works G. L.
Goudie, and Walter Duncan, Govern-
ment leader in S.A.’s Plush Chamber.
High Court Justice H. E. Starke gets a
K.C.M.G., and Dr. John Ramsay, Laun-
ceston surgeon, a K.B. Retired business-
man William Dixson, of Sydney, who
gave the Mitchell Library a fine collection
of historical paintings, and R. M. Clark,
head of Marcus Clark, Sydney, and a
pillar of the Alfred Hospital, also acquire
handles. There are three recognitions for
literature: “Banjo” Paterson gets a
C.8.E., Prof. Walter Murdoch’s readable
and sensible essays are rewarded likewise,
and Mrs. A,neas Gunn, author of We of
the Never Never, scores an 0.8. E.
Hal Colebatch, who has had two long
innings in Westralia’s London office, is to
be retired at last, M. F. Troy having been
named A.-G. Troy’s association with
Westralian politics began before Cole-
batch’s, though the latter was several
times a Minister, Premier for a couple
of wild weeks and a Senator ; Troy has
been M.L.A. for Mt. Magnet since the
early nineteen-hundreds, Speaker and
Minister of Lands. Born in N.S.W.,
where he did a bit of school-teaching, he
migrated in the late ’nineties to the Mur-
chison, where tradition has it that his
first job was as Warden Dowley’s groom.
A man of middle height, with a nice
voice and manner, he has no enemies
anywhere ; and, though As.-G, are four
a penny nowadays, such Londoners as he
meets are sure to like him.
Back home in Adelaide on a visit is
Frederick Young, an old-time lawyer,
M.H.A. of S.A., and then Agent-General.
After which, earning a title, he settled
down in England as M.P. for Swindon,
also director of the E., S. and A. Bank
and other cos.
Lord Strabolgi, who is flying out to
Australia, was Lieut.-Commander Ken-
worthy in the days when he was Labor
member for Central Hull in the British
Commons. The title which relegated
him to the Lords in 1934 dates from
1318. After being in abeyance for a
centuiy or so, the claim of the present
holder’s father to assume it was admitted
in 1916. From young Kenworthy’s point
of view—he is now 52 —this revival
of ancient glory without a substantial
monetary backing was unwelcome. His
adopted party, while it loves a lord,
doesn’t trust the species over far.
“F.Y.7”: As one whose acquaintance
with the Echlin clan in Queensland goes
back to the ’nineties, I was interested to
hear of the passing of “Dick” Echlin (B.
21/12/’3B), whom I had not seen for
30 years. When I first knew him, in
’9l, Dick was a delicate boy with long
fair hair and golden curls. It followed,
of course, that his mother regarded him
as another “Little Lord Fauntleroy,” then
all the rage among doting mothers, and
dressed him accordingly. I don’t know
how he got on with his Brisbane school
mates, for he was a very small boy. Am
glad to hear he won kudos as a Guardee.
The furnace through which he passed in
the days of velvet suits and lace collars
must have been a fierce one.
As the heading of The Bulletin’s
“Society” page gives testimony, this jour-
nal is printed with Wimble’s ink, a habit
which it formed with the first issue and
has never been able to give up. George
Wimble, who has been modelled by Frith,
is the present head of the ink firm, which
is known everywhere in Australasia
where Caxton’s art is practised. F. T.
GEORGE B. WIMBLE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Wimble founded the business 72 years
ago, and George, his son, who joined the
business in 1907, succeeded to the helm
two years ago when his father died.
George Wimble’s communion with the
inks was interrupted in 1915, when he
joined the Australian Flying Corps, in
which he served as an observer in France
and carried on till he was demobbed in
1919. The new head of the firm is a
keen golfer, likes motoring, and has
travelled all over Australasia.
There is nothing birdlike about Albert
Plesman, head of the K.L.M., who wants
to give Sydney a days’ air service
till it can be speeded up a little. Fie is
more like a granite gatepost, topped by
a roughly chiselled face lit up by big
green-grey eyes. Though solid, he is
not muscle-bound. He pulled off his
coat (he is 48) and looped the loop in
the K.L.M. gymnasium at Amsterdam
just to show Earle Page and Tom White
how it worked. His hobby is. Dutch
history, especially the story of the old
navigators.
Frank Middlemiss, a short story by
whom appears in this issue, expends the
same patient care over his writings as
did the late Dowell O’Reilly. He was
born in J. B. Priestley’s home town —
Bradford (Yorks) and after brief
periods in his father’s manufacturing
business, in a bank and in a country
newspaper office he x came to Australia
in 1908 as a young man. His “colonial
experience” included newspaper work in
Brisbane and Auckland and various less
genteel occupations (shed-hand, hawker,
car-washer, waiter, super, and window-
cleaner) ; then came the war and 3| years
abroad. Returning to Australia, he be-
came a reporter on the “Evening News” ;
for a number of years he has been on
the staff of the “Agricultural Gazette.”
A tireless walker, most of his writings
are first thrashed out in his mind while
engaged on some ramble.
Chief Judge Dethridge, passed out in
a Melbourne hospital, was noted in Mel-
bourne for his upright stance and his de-
termined walk and the important-looking
book, usually a work on mathematics,
which he always carried under his arm.
He used also to be noted, before his days
of official arbitration, as one more pre-
disposed to arbitration than to litigation,
and County Court disputants were fre-
quently thrown, to their annoyance, on
their own emotional and intellectual re-
sources by the Judge’s curt comment:
“Don’t you think you could settle this
better out of court?” He was fond of
calling his court “the Court of Common-
sense.” He was educated at St. Stephen’s,
Richmond (Vic.), at Brunswick College
and at Trinity, Melbourne University,
and reached the Bar in 1893. In 1919 he
was commissioned to inquire into the con-
ditions of wharf workers, and his per-
formance then paved the way to his posi-
tion as Chief Judge of the Common-
wealth Arbitration Court in 1926. He
was 74.
Malcolm MacDonald, whose frank
advocacy of the idea that the Dominions
must develop their secondary industries
is nothing new, is the only member of
the present British Ministry who has
visited Australia twice. The. first time
he came as an Oxford debater with
Christopher Hollis, now a writer of
books, and Douglas Woodruff, who writes
light leaders for the “Times.” Then he
«came in 1934 as Dominions Secretary.
Malcolm may or
may not have gone
into the Ministry
originally as the
son of his father,
but he is there
now on his own
merits. He still
has the Oxford
debater’s capacity
for saying unex-
pected and para-
doxi c a 1 things,
though he does it
in a mild and
gentle fashion that
often enables him
to get away with it,
even in politics.
Melbourne Uni.,
which parted brass-
rags with one of
the most original
professors it has
ever had, Wood
Jones, at least has
a portrait of him
now. The anatom-
ist was a difficult
man. Just before
he resigned his
chair at the Uni-
versity to go to
England, a matter
of principle came
up before the
board of the National Gallery-—he was
one of the trustees. The board had
selected a director to replace the late
Bernard Hall. The Chief Secretary re-
fused to accept the board’s nominee.
Wood Jones suggested that, as trustees of
the national collection, they were bound
to stick up for the man they regarded as
best for the job, and should resign in
protest. Only Wood Jones resigned. W. B.
Mclnnes painted the portrait.
Rationalism, like single tax, still has
its earnest followers in Victoria, and the
affairs of their organisation have recently
been aired in Melbourne Banco Court.
J. S. Langley, secretary of the association
since 1925, studied for the church, and
would have been ordained if a Rationalist
publication had not caught his eye in a
bookshop in Oxford University. Then
he came to Australia, and lived for a
while in Perth, where he put Rationalism
on its legs with a series of fiery lectures
at the Literary Institute.
“Ek Dum” looks back:
Poet Robert D. Fitz Gerald, whose third
book, Moonlight Acre, has just been pub-
lished in Melbourne, is by profession a
surveyor. Born at Hunter’s Hill (N.S.W.),
where he still resides, 37 years ago, he
was educated at the Sydney Grammar
School and the Uni. His first book of
poems, The Greater Apollo: Seven
Metaphysical Songs, was privately printed
and distributed among friends; Angus
and Robertson published- his second,
To Meet the Sun ; and the Melbourne
University Press has published the third,
which contains “Essay on Memory,” the
poem which won the £lOO Sesquicenten-
ary prize poem competition.
Bernard Heinze, Melbourne’s Ormond
Professor of Music, has just returned
from a world tour under A.B.C. auspices
with the firm conviction that even if
Australian orchestras are not the finest in
the world they are in the international
class. Budapest has offered him the baton
of its symphonic orchestra and he has
received other tempting offers, but he
intends to stay in Australia for the
present.
An eventful life ended when William
Ashwin Corbett, of Cudgen Headland
(northern N.S.W.), passed over at 75.
Born in Canada, he joined the N.-W.
Mounted Police when the life of a
Mounty was one of frequent and strenu-
ous adventure with wild Indians, bad
whites, bears, and snowstorms. Coming
to Australia he joined the N.S.W. police,
and resigned in 1898 to take up motor-
cars, an even more adventurous enter-
prise in those days than anything the
Mounties had offered. He drove up from
Sydney the first “horseless carriage” that
the Northern Rivers had ever seen, a
snorting, high-wheeled, chain-driven,
tiller-steered contraption, and became the
first motor agent and car mechanic in
the Lismore district. As with most
pioneers his enterprise brought him small
reward, and for the last nine years he
was caretaker at Cudgen for the Tweed
Shire Council.
A.J. DE BAUN, recently appointed to
the N.S.W. Industrial Commission.
The Carstairs family, of Lakes Entrance,
must hold the record for Victoria for life-
saving in wholesale quantities. In 1934
David, Victor and Alfred got the R.H.S.
award for salvaging over a dozen fami-
lies in the vicinity of Orbost during the
floods of that year. This Christmas Eric,
another member of the family, happened
to be on the spot when a jetty collapsed
at The Entrance and threw 20 people intc
deep water.
Strange how even our schoolmasters can
misjudge us. A generation ago, dear old
Bobby Gross, picking a cast for a German play
at Brisbane Grammar School, remarked: “I
am giving oud der roles vich I thing you all
vill fill in live.” For the hero, a red-headed
and uproarious sailor, he chose E. D. Macin-
tosh, now a Dalgety manager and quietest of
fellows. A theatrical blacksmith was Norman
Hetherington; he has become City Treasurer.
The rakish-looking poet was G. L. Byth, one
of the best classical scholars Queensland has
produced and State Parliamentary draftsman,
and a poet is an insurance broker. Then there
was a decrepit and white-whiskered old gent.—
Ernest Herga, who afterwards played football
for London University, came out of the war a
lieut.-colonel and settled down in what is now
one of London’s biggest suburban medical prac-
tices at Westham. The heroine was W. M.
Kyle—“Lubra” for some time afterwards to
his admiring friends —who turned up in the
guise of a Cooper’s Creek gin as the sailor’s
bride. Kyle has been appointed professor of
philosophy at Queensland University.


CRICKETERS WILL
ALWAYS HAVE THE
WET WICKET PROBLEM.
UNLESS THE. RULES
ARE ALTERED.
,IF THE LO&ER OF THE Tt>S£
HAS TO BAT ON A WET
WICKET
HE SHOULD BE GIVEN A. WATERING
CAM AMO ONE THOUSAND GALLONS .OF*
WATER.
THEM IF THE OTHER SIDE BATS CM A GOOD, DRY WICKET
THE TOSS LOSER SHOULD BE FREE TK>
USE HIS RESOURCES
AS GOOD GENERALSHIP DICTATES.
A FAIR GO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Yokain”: As you probably know, a
swamper is a man who clears the track
for a teamster. Old Tim’s swamper left
his job to become an officer of the Sal-
vation Army, so Tim applied at the mill
office for another. The clerk asked the
routine question: “Why did your last
swamper leave?” Pleased to have a
highly-respectable reason for a change,
Tim replied gravely: “He went swamp-
ing for the Lord.”
* * * *
“O. W. Waireki”: My Maori neigh-
bor was repeatedly returning for me to
“brush down te back with t’at nice stiff
brush you hafe.” “You seem to like a
mighty lot of brushing,” I said one morn-
ing, after doing the job three times.
Henare beamed. “It’s not te brushing I
like,” he answered brightly; “it’s te
feeling.”
M= * *
“T.D.”: Reviews of Mrs. Daisy Bates’s
work again bring up the idea that the
fair strain in certain Westralian abo.
tribes comes from two Dutchmen whom
Pelsart marooned in 1629. A much more
likely source, if there is a Dutch strain
at all, is to be found in the survivors of
the Vergulde Draeck, wrecked near the
mouth of the Moore River in 1656. Of
the 118 on board, 75 reached the land
alive. Seven sailed in the ship’s boat to
seek help from Batavia, and 68, with the
skipper, Pieter Albertszoon, waited on the
coast. They had saved food from the
wreck. The Dutch ship Goede Hoop was
sent to seek the castaways, but not only
failed to find them but lost 11 of her
crew. Three went astray in the bush,
and a boat’s crew of eight sent to find
them also disappeared. So within the
course of a year or so 79 Dutchmen were
lost in Westralia. Several other attempts
were made to solve the mystery of the
Vergulde Draeck’s survivors. A boat’s
crew from the Waeckende Boey found
planks stuck upright
in the ground in a
circle, as if to form
a palisade, but no
other sign of the
castaways.
* *
“Devil’s Poker”:
Dan the stockman
was a good toiler,
dependable, con-
scientious and
honest, but he had
the wickedest temper
of any man I’ve ever
seen. He fought
with the other hands,
intimidated the
poddy - dodging
neighbors and gener-
ally played merry
hell with the niggers.
It got so bad that
nobody would work
with him, so I gaye
him his cheque. He
took it all right and
asked for a refer-
ence. I made the
most of his good
points and, to ease
my conscience, put
at the end: “In-
clined to be irrit-
able.” Taking it out
of my hand he read
it out. When he
came to the end he
let out a wild yell,
jumped into the air and dragged off
his coat. “Irritable!” he yelled. “Bad-tem-
pered ! It’s a damn’ lie! I’m the easiest-
goin’, sweetest-tempered man in North
Australia and I’ll fight anyone who says
I’m not.” He meant business. I wrote
him another reference.
* * * *
“P.P.”: Reproving artist Jolliffe (B.
21 /12/’3B), “Pa” reproves himself when
he asks if J. has ever seen prickly-pear
growing in an area with less than a 20in.
rainfall average. Let him go to El Arish
and start past Gaza up the Philistine
Plain and he’ll see boggins of it.
* * * *
“Herpeton”: Tiger-snakes with fangs
over an inch long (B. 21 /12/’3B) are
news to snake sharps, for many of the
vipers do not develop their hypo, syringes
to such an extent. Like all the colu-
brines, the tiger’s fangs are fixed and
small, and several of the back ones are
grooved for venom and transmit it from
"Aye, but look at the uneven crop, sir”
the short fangs by vicious worrying,
Even the deadly cobra is no exception,
The tiger’s venom is the most toxic of
all snake poison. That is why Nature
has given him small fangs and with the
grooves open to the outward air instead
of tubed, like the vipers’ apparatus.
* * * *
“Metax”: “No. 1 Bench” (B.
16/11 / ’3B) implies that eucalypts don’t
grow under snow conditions. He should
visit the Speck. In the Great Lake
country he would see those trees growing
at elevations of up to 4000 ft., where 2ft.
falls of snow are common.
* * * *
“Devil’s Poker”: When Quartpot, a
valued stockboy, mistook a vermin-
killing mixture of bran and arsenic for
“good pfeller tucker,” he was rushed
to the mission for treatment. An emetic
of mustard and water produced no effect
even when repeated; they tickled his
"I never told ’ee t ' make Maginot Line of un. Who d' 'ee think Would
Waste bombs on the likes o' you?"
throat with a feather ; then in turn tried
ipecacuanha wine, salt, shaving-soap and
tobacco. Though expectations were
aroused by a few spasmodic heaves they
proved to be clouds without rain—he
rolled his eyes, but remained stoic and
intact. The stockman, hating the thought
of losing a good boy, lost patience with
the mild missionary methods. Grabbing
a surcingle, he shook it under the nigger’s
nose and roared: “Spew, you , spew,
or I’ll tan the hide off you!” A look
of relief showed on the victim’s face.
“That all you want! I bin try keep it
down all same medicine.” He imme-
diately obliged, and even the missionary
was satisfied with the result.
* * * *
“Turon River”: Surrounded by the
homestead pack, I swung a freshly-
sharpened, double-ender, universal pick
into a knotty rabbit-burrow. Presently
my own trap dog, all eagerness, plunged
into the burrow beneath the descending
pick. There was nothing I could do
about it; the pick was on to his skull
before I could pull my punch. I lifted
the pick and the dog came with it; then
he yelped and I knew he still had a lot
of lost rabbit-traps left in him. The pick
entered square on top of the skull and
came out just above the left eye, the
bone turning it and making a terrific
flesh wound. He was chasing rabbits a
few minutes later which brings me to
this: I’ve seldom seen a bush tyke of
decent age that hasn’t been through the
m ifl j n some way or another,
*** . *
“Quack-quack”: And did “Bushy
Park” (B. 23 /11 /’3B) expect his white
cockatoo to die, or at least suffer acute
indigestion, when it scoffed a trifling
wristlet watch? Tut! tut! One depres-
sion time I took the contract of dressing
Christmas ducks bred on a not-long-built
poultry farm. The stuff I found in those
birds’ gizzards! Nails, screws, staples,
glass and snippets of wire netting.
Showed the collection to the owner, and
he reckoned the carpenters had been
careless, dropping such stuff around. But
the birds were well up in condition and
weight. The most curious was the wire-
netting ; constantly worked on by the
constrictions of the gizzard, it was laced
through and through the flesh. The iron
of it seemed to be readily enough
absorbed, but the zinc was more ob-
stinate. Birds of all sorts, when starved
for grit, will eat practically anything
that will serve for gizzard-grinding. I’ve
seen neglected muscovy ducks enlarging
the holes in chicken netting just for that
reason.
* * if: * *
“G.G.”: Out in the garden early one
morning I noticed a few birds flying low
and giving agitated cries. Hearing the
same call repeated from a clump of
long grass I looked closer to see if one
of their flock had fallen and was injured.
To my surprise I saw a large grey tabby
crouched in the grass. His eyes were
fixed on the fowls and his mouth was
opening and shutting in a curious man-
ner. 1 was amazed to hear him mimick-
ing exactly the cry of the birds, which
appeared to be hypnotised by it. Is this
an isolated instance or is mimicry a gift
common to felines?
* * * *
“Sheafstack”: Claimed that one Allen
Jenkins, in the N.S.W. nor’-western
wheatbelt, lowered the bag-sewing
record by doing 420 bags in 10 hours
30min. It is said that Allen can keep
two headers going at full pressure. A
goodly performance, but it doesn’t en-
title him to reach for the biscuits. The
whole baker’s output goes to Harry
Hend, who closed the mouths of 460
three-bushel bags in 480 minutes. A
needle to be threaded, a bag to be
rammed, and two lugs and about 22
stitches to be inserted every 62 seconds.
Plainly Harry was doing nothing else
while he was doing it. In my bush days
100 bags between magpie and mopoke
was considered good work.
THE QUARREL.
In a park by the sea to-day,
Where a grey, old gum-tree grows,
I was lazing the time away
When a quarrel of birds arose.
They wrangled and fought and flew,
And filled the air with their din;
They were birds of a feather, too,
And ’tis there where the wrong came in.
For the while with their jarring notes
They raged by the morning sea;
There was music enough in their throats
To have made a choir of the tree.
There are things that we may not learn,
And worlds from our gaze shut out;
But, as far as I might discern,
There was nothing to fight about.
There was plenty to drink and eat,
For the spring was abroad in bloom,
And the sun and the air were sweet,
And they lacked not nesting room;
And I watched them quarrelling there,
And I wondered exceedingly
At the way of the bird in the air,
And the way of the bird in the tree.
And a line came into my head,
And an old, old story awoke.
And a nursery rhyme that said
That the birds are gentle folk.
And it seemed such a curious thing
To watch them bicker, and know
That a bird is fashioned to sing
As a flower is made to blow.
Are the old, old notions wrong
That held since the world began,
And the bird—has it quitted its song
For the way of the wolf and the man?
Ah, the beautiful legends die,
And the wonderful fictions cease,
And much of the past must lie
In the grave with the pipes of Peace!
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


“Mat’s Mate”: The big fellow was
ambling through the S.A. mallee looking
for harvest work, and dropped his knot
outside a fence within which a binder
worked. “Yair,” said the cocky, “1 can
give y’ a job stookin’, twenty-five bob
and keep.” “Whadda y’ take me for?”
sneered Mat. The cocky got wild.
“Youse blokes make me sick,” he cried.
“Y’ come moochin’ along, reckon y’r an
honest cove lookin’ f’r work, an’ when
it’s offered y’ turn y’r snout up at it.
There’s not much between you, me lad,
an’ a loafin’ hummer livin’ on the work
of other people!” Mat looked at him
hard and said very quietly, “No, only a
five-wire fence.” .
* * * *
“T. O’Didyou”: The modern stock-
whip handle is a pretty-looking affair
covered with fancy plaiting, but if a
single strand gets cut the plait comes
loose and the handle is
ruined. This is how we
used to make a handle
for a bull-whacker. A
straight stick from a
young mulga or lance-
wood was seasoned in
the shade and pared
and scraped to the right
shape, and a knob for
the end was cast from
lead in a sand-mould
and fastened to the
butt-end of the handle
with a long brass screw.
When a white cow was
killed for beef, the skin
of her tail was drawn
off like the finger of a
glove; this was then
drawn over the wooden
handle with the hair
side out, the tuft of hair
on the end of the tail
being knotted to the
branch of a tree and a
heavy weight hung on
the lower end. This
stretched the greenh ide
tightly on the handle;
while it was still soft it was drawn
in with twine to make a neat cover
for the lead knob. When dry the
greenhide shrank to make a tight coat-
ing over the wood. The hair was then
shaved off with broken glass, melted
dripping was rubbed into the greenhide
to make it waterproof, and the keeper
was bound on with wax-end. Barring
accidents, one of these handles would
last a lifetime. I made one at Brunette
Downs half a century ago ; my son still
uses it to-day.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “You can always tell good,
rich soil by the number of worms that
are in it,” Monaro Mick remarked. “This
seems pretty poor soil —there aren’t many
about.” Andy, who was trying to sell
him his farm, snorted. “Poor be
damned! Why, this soil’s so rich that
they all got so bilious they crawled off the
place.”
* * * *
“Spinifex Sam”: Pars, regarding the
pyramids of dead marines on the W.A.
goldfields remind me of the use, or mis-
use, to which one such accumulation was
put. Of course, there were no real “bad
men” on the fields, though there were
a few who weren’t exactly delicately
nurtured. One such blew into Murrin
Murrin, a one-pub hamlet out Mt. Mar-
garet way. With a dial not unlike that
of a gorilla, and a frame to match,
Nugget, mildly cashed up and therefore
welcome, tried to mash the “missus” —
and “missed.” Full of frustration and
disgust, he wandered out into the night
and stumbled over the mountain of
empties that half filled the pub back-
yard. Here was ammunition weighty and
explosive with which to vent his grief.
All night long bottles rained on that
hapless pub. So large was the heap that
not till daylight did he desist, and even
then there were still plenty. And that
was
««<- *i W .. *■
orynus . some curious, even dis-
turbing, results are coming out of scien-
tific investigation of the periodic heavy
mortality amongst certain animals when
their numbers rise much above the
normal in any given area. It is not
na tural enemies, even man, which wipe
out “plagues” of mice, rats or grass-
hoppers, but disease generally one
which normally exists amongst them in
mild form, but acquires epidemic viru-
lence whenever the population becomes
overcrowded. A species of North Ameri-
can hare seems to carry the process fur-
ther s till as it dies in great numbers
at intervals of 10 years from a rapidly
“Good old Harry—always doin' somethin new!”
fatal form of liver failure, apparently
due to some obscure earth-change affect-
ing food qualities. A disturbing factor
is that man, with all his knowledge, is
not exempt from such risks. The 1919
influenza disaster was the last reminder.
* * * *
“Nautilus”: Nut-grass was bad in one
N.Q. canefield, and the boss insisted on
all machinery used there being carefully
cleared of it before removal to any other
non-infested fields. Finishing up a nut
area, the boss told the ploughman to
take all nuts off and move to another
block. Spanners came out, and the plough
was in pieces when the boss took his ride
around next morning. And the plough-
man wasn’t a choom either.
* * * *
“Makereka”: Gordon Thomas, of
Rabaul “Times,” who should know some-
thing about New Guinea and Papua, is
advocating (B. 14/12/ ’3B) a unified lan-
guage for the natives to take the place of
the awful “pidgin” and the more
awful smattering of 50 tongues that
a conscientious official is usually found
attempting to the confusion of all.
Thomas will agree that old Billy Mac-
Gregor knew something about Papuans
and their N.G. neighbors. Instead of
selecting one of the 1000 tongues in use,
or of teaching the natives a selected lan-
guage as the missions do —each a different
language to keep the flock from straying,
and thus making confusion worse con-
fused —the great proconsul ordered his
officers to make the natives speak Eng-
lish, as his earlier annual reports will
show. Unfortunately, people like Monck-
ton couldn’t resist the temptation to air
their knowledge of the unspeakable
“police Motu,” and when MacGregor
went his sensible idea went with him.
Writer took the hint and put his flock on
English Attempts by a policeman or
similar Government employee to begin
a conversation in pidgin or police Motu
were ignored. In the end the would-be
dodger either owned up suddenly that he
cou id use the English words if he wanted
to or else had to hunt up a friend who
CO uld.
* * * *
“Puffinus”: The soaring of an eagle
or an albatross is the very acme of air-
grace, but the flapping flight of shorter-
winged birds is a far more remarkable
display of air mechanics. It is no mere
matter of up-and-down wing strokes—that
would only lift the bird—but depends
on a complicated movement in which
the wingtips follow a figure-of-eight
course, impelling it also forward. The
exertion required is immensely greater.
A pigeon’s wings beat 480 times to the
minute, a duck’s 540 and a sparrow’s 780.
Many species of short-winged birds make
migratory flights extending to thousands
of miles, and, even allowing for favor-
able winds and assistance from the up-
ward air currents, which are the main
factors in soaring, sufficient to reduce
wing action to half the pigeon average,
each 12 hours of flight would mean at
least 150,000 strokes. Extraordinary
stores of energy must be pent up in those
frail little bodies.
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry, who was tak-
ing a leading part in the amateur theatri-
cal show being staged at Grabbengulla,
owned the only store in the place, and
was somewhat unpopular because of his
prices. Making his entrance on the stage,
he held his arm aloft and spoke his lines:
“I am the robber chief.” Came a yell
from the mob, “You’re telling us!”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: The Torres Strait abo. has
a legend accounting for the presence of
mosquitoes, which are the bane of the
archipelago. A Badu-islander and his
wife lived in far from wedded bliss, and
one day the man, wearied of her cease-
less nagging, boarded his canoe and
paddled for the sunset. With the pro-
verbial fury of a woman scorned, the
deserted spouse collected a coconut-leaf
basket full of all the most virulent sting-
ing properties possible, and hurled them
into the wind-stream in the wake of her
decamping lord. As punishment for this
vindictiveness a powerful “dogai,” or
debbil-debbil, changed the wind back in
her direction, at the same time trans-
forming the prickles to the plaguey blood-
suckers which blight the otherwise balmy
environment of the Strait to-day.
* * * *
“C.V.S.”: Unmistakable signs revealed
the presence of tawny frogmouth
youngsters, and from a distance of 10ft.
I stared for five minutes at a piece of
dead wood, apparently leaving no room
in the fork for a nest, before realising
that it was the statuesque parent bird
sitting beak-skywards and stiffly erect.
On investigation I found two youngsters
clothed in pure white down. The plumage
of young plover, dotterels, etc., blends
with their surroundings, and at an early
age young bitterns raise their slender
beaks aloft, fading into a background of
reeds. Why, then, is the fledgling of the
most perfectly camouflaged bird clothed
in conspicuous white?
* * * *
“Atrax”: Mark Twain once eulogised
the flea as the most courageous and enter-
prising of all created beings, but I back
the rat, brown, black and sub-species
thereof. It dominates and outwits civil-
ised man in every direction, lives luxuri-
ously on the products of his labor, uses
his ships, trains, even ’planes, to accom-
pany him to every climate and latitude
where he can establish himself; destroys
his property to the extent of millions of
pounds yearly, and crowns it all by in-
fecting him with dangerous diseases.
Such an adept it is at concealing itself
that experts estimate that the rat popu-
lation of any big city in the world —in-
cluding Australian cities; —equals or
exceeds the human population. As a
breeder it leaves the rabbit at the start-
ing-gate. Beginning at three months,
their litters average 10, six times a year.
One pair can produce 3050 offspring and
descendants in 14 months. One pair, too,
will eat and spoil 6£lb. of wheat, or its
food equivalent, each week.
* * * *
“Wandi”: Two curious examples of
bird architecture are the nests of the red-
browed finch and the tomtit. That of
Redbrow is made in the form of a stock-
ing, hung by the toe. The bird enters
by the leg, and the eggs are laid in the
well-hidden heel. The little fellow has
many aliases, such as waxbill, redbill,
redhead and temporal finch. Where
large flocks occur, scores of grass stock-
ings may be seen hanging in sheltered
positions. The tomtit (yellow-rumped tit)
builds a double-decker, which always has
the appearance of a deserted nest. The
top part is saucer-shaped, and is usually
occupied by the male as a bed at night
and a watchtower by day. The lady’s
apartment is underneath, and has a side
entrance with a hanging door, which con-
ceals ma and the eggs. Apparently this
tomtit is the only bird that goes in for
twin beds and dummy apartments.
* * * *
“Simon Scrawler”: Choom caused
much amusement when he put a collar
upside down on a horse and, after
fastening it, turned it up the right way.
But Fred, from a near-by farm, who also
had a pink-and-white complexion, was
not amused. He said that the lad had
probably been taught to do it that way.
Without asking further particulars, he
bet that the boy came from Bedford.
He won. It appears that harnessing a
horse in this fashion is a habit they
have in that part.
* * * *
“Johnno”: Threw a small, just-killed
carpet snake to the pup with a view- to
teaching him to kill snakes. The defunct
reptile, almost as full of wriggle as a
live specimen, fell across the tyke’s neck.
Nipper waltzed around once or twice,
then, getting the wind up, tucked his
tail and streaked for nowhere in par-
ticular. When we found him hiding
beneath the barn, half an hour later, the
snake was still keeping him company
and staining his coat with blood. The
reptile, when it fell on the dog, got a
turn or two round his collar with its
tail and the remaining squirm was
enough to half-wind the wriggler round
the collar. So secure was its grip that
it would have stayed put till separated
from the collar by disintegration.
* * * *
“Hanko”: The nankeen heron, of re-
cent mention in these pages, is evidently
another of the birds that are common
to Australia, S’Africa, India and Malaya.
There are many such, especially among
the ducks and hawks. As a fact, the
kite-hawk ranges as far as Egypt, but
legend has it that it was introduced there
from the Sudan by Lord Kitchener to
help scavenge the insanitary towns of
Pharaoh’s land, a work it performs with
vacuum-cleaner thoroughness. While
there’s no true cosmopolitan among the
birds, the barn owl occurs in identical
form both in Europe and Australia —a
really remarkable circumstance.
THE REFORM.
The township has become a place of virtue and
restraint;
The teamster’s voice in language choice has
ceased the air to taint;
No deadbeats hold the pub wall up, and
swaggies hurry on;
The s.p. book is going crook because his trade
has gone.
A sense of solemn sanctity the air in Bung’s
pervades,
With rouseabouts refusing shouts or having
lemonades!
We've- cut out playing poker and we’ve wiped
the two-up school;
Our leisure goes in dominoes in place of ‘Bidgee
pool.
We never moonlight possums now or fish with
dynamite;
Tough shearers’ dials are wreathed in smiles,
we never see a fight.
And yet these sudden scruples had no con-
scientious source;
No sense of shame upon us came to change
our erring course.
The answer’s in the copper’s yard—a woodheap
ten feet tall,
And first in jug will be the mug who’ll have
to cut it all!
N.S.W.
B.A. KER.


m
W/A
L
m
m
m
r
'am
m
m
m
m
mi-.
mm
m
vm
m
m
m
Wm
m
W//A
y/m/////<m
7/i.
mm.
w
m
m
DIFFICULT DAYS
In Town and Country
WHETHER a man live and work in the town or in the country, he
.as a yearning for SAFETY: to be free of financial worries. It
is to help men and women in this yearning that the A.M.P. exists.
A certain time-hardened wheat farmer said recently: “My A.M.P.
policies give me something to hold fast to. They leave me free of
worry, fear and doubt; free to concentrate on the fight with the
seasons and the pests.”
It is the same with the city man. Adequate A.M.P. assurance
lifts from him all fear he may have in regard to family obligations,
mortgages, debts, and whatnot, and leaves him free to live.
A lf *y?V 'Tj l ,? read this have an y of this fear . why not leave it with
the A.M.P.? Why not ask the nearest A.M.P. office to send an experi-
enced adviser to show you how you may be rid of it for ever?
ci^ £ Tlle Societ y has £115,000,000 worth of assets. It has paid out
£146,000,000 to members and their beneficiaries. Use it to lighten
your own life and benefit your family’s. Write to-day. Even to-morrow
mav be too late!
A.M.P. SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the Principal Board.
-T ‘ MKddOT, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
E. Walker, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
District Offices throughout all States.
Branch Offices at Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and
Hobart.
New Zealand Branch Office: Customhouse Quay, Wellington.
ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET. SYDNEY, 484 GEORGE STREET.
Rooms, 6/- and 8/- per day; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms, or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS.
Bunch from 13 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Din ner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m ).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone, M 4601.
Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he possess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request.
Directors'.
0. E. FRIEND F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman)
CECIL H. DOYLE A. E. BOND
' E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager. N. L.
SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
W. G. HULL
SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
LUDOWICI PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
s
8
0
a
22
'5
ISHtO
Ludowici Pioneer Leather Belting has proved itself
superior for the hardest conditions. It is waterproof
and well-nigh wearproof.
Made only by the Original Ludowici Company to
standards of quality well-known for 80 years.
J. C. LUDOWICI & SON, LTD.
117 YORK STREET SYDNEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Adelaide Electric Supply Co., Ltd.
Nomi-
Net Ords. To Re- nal Re-
Aug., Profit.* Prefs. 12 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 320,260 155,857 60,000 104,403 512,602
1929.. 366,261 166,406 60,000 139,855 652,457
Written off plant, £99,398 .. .. 553,059
1930.. 344,518 172,500 60,000 112,018 665,077
Written off plant, £20,146 .. .. 644,931
84 p.c.
1931.. 354,797 172,500 42,500 139,797 784,728
Written off plant, £67,906 .. .. 716,822
Transferred to suspense account, 1
£40,000 1 100,747 817,569
1932.. 355,747 172,500 42,500 J
Written off plant, £205,042 .. .. 612,527
To suspense account, £40,000 1 11QQ17
1933.. 374,917 172,500 42,500 ) 119,917 ' 32,444
Written off plant-, £22,731 .. .. 709,713
From suspense account, £41,737.. .. 751,450
10 p.c.
1934.. 355,469 172,500 50,000 132,969 884,419
Reserves capitalised, £125,000 .. .. 759,419
Suspense account transferred, £31,109 .. 790,528
Premiums on repayment deben. stock, £2145 788,383
Written off plant, £20,112 .. .. 768,271
1935.. 334,073 172,500 56,250 105,323 873,594
Underwriting, etc., exes., £2404- .. 871,190
Premium repayment debentures, £14,633 856,557
Written off plant, £20,108 .. .. 836,449
1936.. 352,929 172,500 62,500 117,929 954,378
Written off plant, £22,520> .. .. 931,858
1937.. 397,902 174,583 62,500 160,819 1,092,677
Written off plant, £90,990 .. ..1,001,687
Cost debenture conversion, £10,432 .. 991,255
1938.. 374,008 185,000 62,500 126,508 1,117,763
* Includes provision for debenture sinking fund.
With Adelaide as the centre, this big
privately-owned and efficiently-handled
co., which took over the business and
rights of the Electric Light and Trac-
tion Co. in 1904, now supplies an
area of 3314 square miles, contain-
ing an estimated population of 337,700
people, with electric light and power.
Since headquarters were transferred
from London to Adelaide in 1922,
£2,125,000 of share capital has been
added to the register, making a total of
£3,375,000, and an extra £1,047,134 of
debenture money has been gathered,
raising the debenture debt to £1,577,274.
The composition of the share and deben-
ture capital and the amount of each on
the Adelaide and London registers re-
spectively are as follows:
f —Capital , —Debenture Stock—^
Adelaide. London. Adelaide. London.
„ P-e. £ £ p.c. £ £
Pref. C . . 173,558 76,442 51 C 71,038
„ 5A .. 250,000 6 D 250,000
„ 8B ~ 249,950 50 4 E 198,000
~ 61C. . 730,734 269,266 41 F 200,000
„ 5 1).. 250,000 41 G 200 858,036
P. Ord. 8.. 743,388 6.612
Ord. . . 616,729 8,271
Total £2,764,359 610,641 £048,200 929,074
During the last term a saving of £B5OO-
- per annum followed the conversion
of 5i p.c. debenture stock on the Lon-
don register to 4j p.c. debenture stock on
the same register; and the remaining
£73,913 on the 5 p.c. D pref. stock, issued
locally in 1937, came in. The debenture
stock is secured by a floating charge
over the whole of the undertaking, and
is redeemable at par on maturity dates
in Australian currency or sterling, ac-
cording to the register, and a sinking
fund of 1 p.c. p.a. has been established.
With the exception of the 6 per cents.,
which are entitled to a capital bonus of
10 p.c. in the event of' a wind-up, all pref.
shares rank pari passu for both capital
and dividends. The preferreds rank
ahead of the ords. for divs., but equally
with them for capital, except that
£125,000 of ord. stock allotted as fully
paid in/ 1935 is to be regarded as un-
issued.
The market prices all capital stock to
return approximately 4.3 p.c. as against
4.5 p.c. a year ago. The debentures are
priced to yield around 4 p.c. The net
tangible cover per pound of stock is
£3 16s. Ud. debentures, £2 4s. lid. prefs.
and 395. lid. preferreds and ords.
During the last term, the number of
consumers connected to the co.’s mains
increased by 3465, reaching 98,263. This
and the board’s policy of hiring electric
cookers and water heaters to consumers
■ —there is no coal in S. Aus. —qre re-
fleeted in an increase of 10.8 p.c. in total
kelvins sold (130.5 millions), making the
growth 102.4 p.c. over the last five years.
So, despite a reduction in the tariff
charge to consumers, gross revenue in-
creased by £22,125:
1934. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Gross revenue £787,729 £878,910 £964,493 £986,618
Operating exes.
and taxes.. 355,309 456,198 481,540 531,516
Net revenue £432,420 £422,712 £482",953 £455,102
The spring of £49,976 in operating exes.,
etc., was due mainly to the increased
cost of coal and other materials and
wage lifts. After deducting debenture
interest (£83,010) and allowing for minor
reserve adjustments, the net result was
£25,894 below the previous year’s, but it
was sufficient to pay the pref. divs., to-
gether with 10 p.c. to the ords., and leave
£126,508 in the business. That disregards
the cost of the debenture conversion
(£10,432) and of plant scrapped during
the year (£90,990), both of which were
charged direct to reserves. Reserves are
labelled nominal in the table because
no specific allowance is made for depre-
ciation. Considering the public nature
of the undertaking, it is doubtful whether
anything better than 10 p.c. need be
looked for from the ords.
During the year £405,507 was spent on
plant, equipment, etc., and £122,702 was
written off, reducing the net book value
of fixed assets* to £5,895,723. The more
or less liquid surplus amounted to
£331,058. Since the close of accounts
another £250,000 of 4y p.c. debentures
has been issued in Australia.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
/ —Dividends —^
Pref. To Re-
June, Loss. 9 p.e. Ordinary, serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1928.. 1,611 Nil Nil 262
Profit. Reserves.
1929.. 53,184 52,000 Nil 1,184 922
1930.. 39,943 40.000 Nil 865
1931.. 35.607* 36,000 Nil 472
1932.. 38,668 36,000 Nil 2,668 3,140
1933.. 57,496 52,000 Nil 5,496 8,636
8J p.c.
1934.. 50,472 36,000 6710 7,762 16,398
1935.. 47,615 36,000 6710 4,905 21,303
1936.. 50,109 36,000 6710 7,399 28,702
1937.. 48.658 36,000 6710 5,948 34.650
1938.. 60,304 36.000 6710 17,594 52,244
* Includes paid by subsidiaries from reserves.
A change in the board’s policy with
regard to provision for depreciation has
brightened the outlook for the ords. and
widened the margin of dividend security
lor the prefs., despite accumulating
economic difficulties in the trade itself.
The chairman puts it this way:
Although the buildings and plant have
been considerably extended since 1925, and
at the same time carefully maintained, the
amount of depreciation provided during
the intervening years to 1937 totalled
slightly more than £288,000. As a result,
the written-down book value of plant and
machinery had reached a figure so low that
further provision upon a scale so generous
was unnecessary, and the board has, during
the year under review, framed and put into
operation a new long-range policy to deal
with this matter.
In 1925 16s. per share was lopped off
ord. capital, reducing it to £80,527 ; that
was to cover fire losses and rub out
£BO,OOO of goodwill, etc. For the next
decade it was a struggle to keep up pay-
ments on the £400,000 of 9 p.c. pref.
money, owing to the heavy allowances
for depreciation. These allowances, how-
ever, enabled plant to be brought more
up to date, thus increasing the co.’s com-
petitive power, and with the passing of
slump the ords. got into the picture in
1934 with 8 1-3 p.c. for the first time
since this holding co. amalgamated the
interests of Lincoln Spinning Mills and
Lincoln Knitting Mills in 1922. The
parent took over distribution of the
operating cos.’ products in 1932.
Combining the trading figures of the
three cos., last year’s gross earnings
(£133,595) improved £15,806. The allow-
ance for depreciation was £14,890 (down
£13,876). Exes. (£73,291) took £3561 of
the increase in gross, leaving the net
result £12,245 better at £60,304 —figures
in the introductory table relate only to
the holding co. The improvement in
net earnings was due entirely to the
smaller allowance for depreciation,
which, the auditors say, is “a sound basis
for adoption in these and future
accounts.” The £60,304 of profit claimed
over \\ times covered the prefs.’ annual
requirements, after meeting which enough
remained to show 30.1 p.c. on ord. capi-
tal as against 15, 15.9, 14.4, 16.9 and 26
p.c. back to 1933. The div. was kept at
8 1-3 p.c.
There is nothing uncomfortable about
the finances, as the following table,
which combines the figures of the three
cos., shows:
1930. 1932. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital. . £480,527 £480,527 £480,527 £480,527
Outside lia-
bilities . . 197,242* 41,248 75,428 62,811
Freeholds . . 93,269 89,161 86.578 84.023
Plant .. 205,724 176.275 124,103 119,522
Stocks .. 310.171 215,483 319,079 324,078
Book debts, etc. 138,850 99,279' 115,527 123,648
* Includes an unspecified provision for taxation.
The year’s surplus earnings enabled
£12,617 to be chipped off the outside
debt, £4999 to be added to stocks, the
weakest point in the cos.’ armor, and
£Bl2l to book debts, etc. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£384,915) was £25,737. On freehold and
plant respectively £2555 and £4581 more
was written off than was spent.
As for the current term, one can hear
a knife being sharpened in the trade, and
costs, including taxation, continue on the
up-grade. Still, unless something very
unexpected happens, the altered policy
in respect of depreciation should more
than offset the effects of economic de-
velopments.
The market, however, prices the 4s.
ords. at ss. 6d. as against 6s. 6d. a year
ago. The immediate return at ss. 6d.
is 6 p.c. on an 8.3 p.c. div. basis. The
pound prefs. at 265. 9d. yield 6.7 p.c.
Including undistributed earnings of the
subsidiaries, the net tangible cover is
275. 4d. prefs. and 7s. 4d. ords.
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney)
t . . To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1928. . 10,094 10 p.c. = 11,000 34 105
1929.. 10,016 10 „ ~ 11,000 33,’121
1930.. 10,005 8 „ „ 8,800 1,205 34,326
Written off, £25,000 .. .. 9,326
1931.. 5,017 6 p.c. = 5,500 8,843
1932.. 615 Nil 615 9,458
1933.. 961 Nil 961 10,419
Capital returned, £44,000.
1934.. 6,202 7 p.c. = 4,620 1,582 12,001
1935.. 5,233 74 „ ~ 4,950 283 12,284
Assets written up, £71.000 .. 83,284
1936.. 11,560 10 p.c. = 6,600 4,960 88,244
Reserves capitalised, £60,000 . . 22,244
W 37.. 5,388 15 p.c. = 3.300 2,088 24,332
1938.. 5,543 174 ~ „ 3,850 1.693 26,025
For the last 20 years shareholders in this
co. have been in clover. Since 1918,
when paid capital was £165,000, they


SAM B. BAGLEY,
Stock and Share Broker
(Member of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne),
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbovme.
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £27,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,000,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
METALS. —If you want to sell Ores, Metals, Scrap,
or buy Refined Tin, Antimony, Solders, Type Metals,
Bearing Metals and other Alloys, try O. T.
LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY., LTD., Bowden Street,
Alexandria, Sydney.— Advt.
***••!:
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Engineers can test the quality of metals they buy
or goods they make by using the Hounsfield
“TENSOMETER,” a portable testing machine —in-
expensive and highly efficient. Full particulars from
William Adams fc Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street* Sydney.— Advt.
THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O'Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M 4383. 86371.
The “Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
j
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a demonstration.
Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
amalgamating tables, magnetic ore separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting
valves, water- and oil-filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories.
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
have received £176,000 of bonus scrip
and have had £319,000 of capital re-
turned, reducing the total on the register
to £22,000. Although the past cannot be
accepted as a guide to the future of the
business, the co. is in a very snug posi-
tion, financially and otherwise. It was
mainly the sale of old freeholds at hand-
some profits years ago, when the co.
pulled out of the timber trade, and its
holding in Kandos that have enabled it
to issue so much bonus scrip and return
so much capital. A couple of years ago
it wrote up 100,000 of its holding of
101,000 shares (face value 16s. each) in
Kandos Cement to their then market
value, 225. each, equal to £llO,OO0 —the
other 1000 shares remained in the books
at cost, £BOO. The surplus on revaluation
was £71,000, of which £66,000 was used
in a one-for-one gift scrip issue, making
paid capital £132,000 in 12s. shares. Then
five Kandos shares were handed out for
every 11 shares in G. and S., reducing
paid capital to £22,000.
Apart from the small holding in
Kandos, earnings have since depended
mainly upon the output of terra-cotta
roofing tiles and synthetic stone, etc.,
from the co.’s own works at Granville,
near Sydney. Activity in the building
trade has kept the plant, which appears
to be highly efficient and conservatively
valued in the books, very profitably em-
ployed for the last couple of years. The
net result of last year’s trading was equal
to 25.2 p.c. on capital as against 24.5 p.c.
for the preceding term, and shareholders
were handed an extra 2\ p.c., making
\l\ p.c. in all, of which 5 p.c. is labelled
bonus.
Finances are comfortable:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Plant, etc £35,025 £30,635 £31,213
Stocks 1,124 4,563 862
Book debts, shares in
other cos., cash, etc. 126,763 17,460 f 19,371
£162,912* £52,658 £51,446
Sundry creditors . . 4,709 3,861 406
Net assets .. ..£158,203 £48,797 £51,040
* 100,000 Kandos shares were written up to 225.
each; surplus, £71,000. f Kandos shares, book
value £llO,OOO, distributed as part return capital.
Allowing for the final div. and bonus, the
more or less liquid surplus amounted to
15s. 6d. per share, and there was another
28s. 4d. in plant, etc. In addition the
co. owns some 30-odd acres of freehold
which are given no value at all in the
published accounts. This adds to the
possibilities of the scrip as a holding
proposition.
Recently the board warned those on
the register against accepting a lower
price for their scrip than could be
obtained on the Stock Exchange, where,
after sales at 455., buyers offer 435. with-
out attracting sellers. The return at 455.
is 7.7 p.c. on a 17j p.c. distribution, or
5.6 p.c. should the div., etc., drop to 12i
p.c. again.
Kauri Timber Co.
Written
Aug., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 14,669 3 p.c. = 22,500 10,951 218,208
1929.. 31,634 3 „ „ 22,500 10,752 216,590
1930.. 28,939 2J „ „ 18,750 10,374 216,405
1931.. 1,201 Nil 11,601 206,005
Loss.
1932.. 14,700 Nil 11,250 180,055
Profit.
1933.. 22,095 2 p.c. = 15,000 11,159 175,991
1934.. 31,978 3 „ „ 22,500 11,429 174,040
1935.. 52,604 5 „ „ 37,500 12,692 176,452
1930.. 63,576 5 „ „ 37,500 21,107 181,421
1937.. 67,772 6 45,000 22,434 181,759
Goodwill disclosed, £12,000 .. 169,759
1938.. 70,696 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,407 175,04 S
Those who look for fat returns from
timber won’t find any encouragement in
the earnings of this strongly-ribbed and
well-handled co. over the last decade or
more. Certainly two-fifths of the
£750,000 of capital is bonus scrip ; but
the gift was made in 1919, when £135,000
of capital was also returned. For the
13 years to the close of last accounts
shareholders averaged 3.8 p.c., and re-
serves were tapped for £132,170 net to
pay it and to cover trading and other
losses. The tide turned about four years
ago, and has continued to rise since,
thanks to the activity in home and other
building.
How the current and next few terms
are likely to pan out it is difficult to say.
The outlook is obscured by developments
in Maoriland, the drop in export prices
and rise in costs, owing to wage and tax
increases, etc. The co.’s freehold and
leasehold timber stands are mainly in
Maoriland, where it also has large sub-
sidiary milling interests, and in West-
ralia. A 50 p.c. interest is also held in
Vanikoro Kauri Timber (issued capital
£90,000), which operates in the Solomon
Islands. To handle the logs from there,
as well as Victorian and Tasmanian hard-
woods, a mill was erected at South Mel-
bourne in 1933 ; drying kilns were put
up there three years later, and their capa-
city was recently doubled. Earnings are
also assisted by a fine wad of investments
(£132,407) in Government and other
loans, debentures, etc., returns from which
have been a big help during the last
dozen or more lean years.
Toward the close of the last term, acti-
vities were extended by purchase of the
plywood and boxmaking business of
Commercial Boxes and Plywood Pty.,
Ltd., Melbourne. The price paid was
not mentioned, but goodwill of £12,000
now appears in the accounts. The pur-
chase had little effect on the 1938 earn-
ings ; but the current year’s figures are
expected to benefit, because the demand
for plywood and panelling is increasing,
while a fairly steady output of boxes for
the butter trade can be expected to con-
tinue. Obviously much depends upon
how these new activities pan out.
For the 12 months covered by the last
accounts gross earnings (£145,860) im-
proved £1139. After allowing for taxation
(£19,383) and providing for depreciation
(£20,407, shdwn as written off in the
table), the net result was £4951 better at
£50,289, or 6.7 p.c. on capital as against
6, 5.6, 5.3, 2.7 and 1.3 p.c. back to 1933.
The div. was kept at 6 p.c.
Mindful of the difficulties of the trade
and of developments in Maoriland, the
market prices the fully-paid 255. shares,
covered by 30s. lOd. in net tangibles, at
225. The return at 225. is 6.8 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1930. 198 5. 1937. 1938.
Paid capital.. £7.10,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 13,275 36,242 38,134 51,034
Freeholds .. 98,891 70,973 52,741 43,764
Leaseholds .. 57,795 57,614 29,053 30,938
Plant, etc. . . 169,196 121,274 116,381 162,330
Stocks, etc. .. 226.303 175,885 215,340 341.314
Book debts .. 74.218 106,821 117,908 119',947
Shares other
cos. .. 148,471 152,978 160,922 164,467
I li v e stments.
cash, etc. .. 223,549 314,049 303,797 139,571
The purchase of the box and plywood
business is reflected in the growth of
£125,974 in stocks, etc., and of £45,949 in
plant; investments, cash, etc., were drawn
upon for £164,226 for the purpose. The
year’s contraction in the more or less
liquid surplus (£549,798, excluding shares
in other cos.) was £49,113.
Australian Gold Production
The value of Australian gold produc-
tion for 1938 promises to be in the neigh-
borhood of £A 13,500,000, or about
£ A 1,500,000 better than for 1937, and the
best since 1907. In quantity it should
approximate the 1917 figure of 1,456,000
fine ounces. Output has more than
doubled since 1929, when 427,000 ounces,
valued at £ A 1,814,000, was produced.
The reason for the revival of the indus-
try is the depreciation of Australian cur-
rency in terms of sterling, and the depre-
ciation of sterling in terms of gold. Last
week-end the metal fetched £7 9s. sd.
sterling per fine ounce in London, which
means that the Australian price was at
a premium of approximately 120 p.c. on
the old statutory figure of 84s. lid., which
ruled in 1929.
The increase in price has enabled
lower-grade ore to be worked at a profit,
thus leading to the opening-up of many
new properties, to extension of the life
of existing mines, more employment and
a substantial addition to national income,
both on account of production and im-
port of capital for investment in the in-
dustry.
Practically all the yellow metal pro-
duced is exported. For the eight years
to June 30, 1938, our overseas trade
balance was in Australia’s favor to the
amount of £5221,500,000, of which
£583,800,000 was - on account of net ex-
ports of gold. The average yearly
balance over that period exceeded
£527,700,000, of which net gold exports
accounted for nearly £S 10,500,000, or
more than one-third. It is plain, there-
fore, the increased gold production has
become a noticeable factor in financing
imports and/or servicing our Govern-
ment debt abroad.
Of the total gold produced in the
Commonwealth, over 70 p.c. comes
from Westralia. Lake View is the
biggest producer. Its ore reserves total
3,589,000 tons. Wiluna with 1,920,000
tons comes next, and then follow
Gt. Boulder 1,062,000, Sons of Gwalia
900,000, North Kalgurli 750,000, Norse-
man 604,000, Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie
370,000, Tindals 320,000, Triton 293,000,
South Kalgurli 271,000, Youanmi
139,865, Boulder Perseverance (broken
ore) 116,700, and Lanceficld 71,000. In
addition, big tonnages have recently
been developed in the Big Bell and in
one or two of the De Bernales group ;
also lesser quantities in a number of
smaller mines.
At Mount Morgan (Q.) throughput is
being stepped up in good style. Results
for the first half of the current term
compared with the previous 12 months:
Year, 30/G/’3B | 3-year, 28/12/’3B
f 4r- j \
Treated, Gold, | Treated, Gold,
Tons. Oz. I Tons. Oz.
Sulphides . . 375,500 37,422* | 215,400 ) , . 0 ,„,
Oxides. . . . 305,458 19,088 t I 201.590 f
Also: * 2252 tons eopper, t 19,6620 z. silver, J 1185
tons eopper.
Progressive returns would be more help-
ful if gold outputs- of the sulphide and
oxide mills were separated.
* * * *
According to data gathered by the
Government party making a geological
and geophysical survey of North Aus-
tralia, the copper deposits at Cloncurry
(Q.) cover a field some 200 miles long
by 50 to 100 miles wide. The quantity
of gold present in the ore is reckoned
to average about ldwt. of gold to every
10 p.c. of copper. To date the south-
eastern portion of the field has been
the largest producer of gold and copper.
It is considered that Croydon (Q.) should
be included in the area of search by
organisations looking for possible gold-
mining properties, and that the Her-
berton-Watsonville district (Q.) still has
possibilities as a tin-producer.
* * * m
There is much to be said in support of
the appeal by “Chemical Engineering and
Mining Review” to the Vic. Government
to establish a small smelter in the north-
eastern part of the State. Successful
treatment of the refractory ores there
has baffled metallurgists, who can only
recommend collection of free gold and
gold-bearing sulphides by straking, Wil-
fley tables and flotation. Recovery of
the gold from the sulphide concentrates
remains a problem. Smelting is the most
effective method, but at present this in-
volves expensive transport to a Customs
smelter in N. S. Wales.
* * * *
To extend its treatment plant and
reduce costs by improved handling
methods, Maryborough Gold (Vic.) is
issuing 30,000 new 10s. 6 p.c. cum.
par. prefs., which, when fully paid, will
raise the total on the share-register to
£52,500. The new shares will be taken
by Gold Dumps Pty. (a subsidiary of
Placer Development), which will super-
vise the vendor’s field operations. The
Maryborough co., of which W. E. Wain-
wright is chairman, was formed in 1937
to cyanide a group of dumps in the
Maryborough district (Vic.), where Gold
Dumps also operates.
* * * *
“Throgmorton”: Of a total revenue for
1937-38 of £1,192,797, Lake View share-
holders received £280,000 in dividends,
equal to 2s. a share. Of the remainder
ore extraction, treatment and realisation
of bullion took £584,398, mine develop-
ment £59,498, tailings re-treatment
£56,734, reserve account £5OOO, London
expenses £8393, and directors’ fees £l3OO,
while £40,627 was appropriated for
special development and £45,212 for de-
preciation, £92,000 was set aside as a re-
serve for taxation and £lO,OOO was
handed to directors as extra remunera-
tion. At June 30, 1938, the co. had
nearly six years’ supply of ore in reserve,
plant of a written-down value of
£316,484, stores £76,442, bullion in
transit £90,759, cash £63,144 and £145,000
worth of British war bonds.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Mines, Ltd., the Aus-
ralian co. which operates the Wiluna
mine, and whose shares are held by
Wiluna Gold Corp., showed a net profit
for last year of £109,614, compared with
£267,846 for the preceding 12 months.
A credit of £171,594 was brought in,
making total available £281,208. Deduc-
tions for special development and ex-
ploration were £56,816; special depre-
ciation of machinery, £38,701 ; property,
£63,989; leaving £121,702. Expenditure
on development and exploration gobbled
most of the profit. Total revenue at
£965,561 was £32,360 lighter than the
previous year’s.
* * * #
To keep its treatment plant operating,
Lady Shenton (W.A.) has decided to cur-
tail development for the time being and
concentrate on extraction of all known
ore above and below No. 7 level. Some
of the directors and the consulting engi-
neer will shortly visit the mine and dis-
cuss with the manager future policy and
operations. Meanwhile, a new property
suitable to the requirements of the co.
is being sought.
* * * *
In search of another Big Bell in W.A.,
the New York-controlled co. of that name
is about to do some pick and shovel and
drill prospecting at Ives Reward, near
Widgiemooltha. This area was boomed
about 18 years ago, and one mine
was billed as a second Boulder, but
failed to live up to anything like the
expectations formed of it. Irregularity
and lack of continuity in values were
the main features of the gold-carriers
exposed.
* jf: Jfc *
Mining Flotations, Ltd., a small Perth
prospecting concern floated in 1934,
holds 13,524 shares in First Hit and
21,603 shares in Spargo’s Reward. Cash
in hand totals £403. Subscribed capital
is £5lOO in £5 shares, on which divs.
have aggregated 10s. a share over the last
two years.


€OMtMAm
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
gtid at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Idle Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Xon-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jot full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
SMOKE-HO!
“Mrs. Mary Argyle was a tall, painfully thin
woman.” — Women s paper’s story.
Bony Mary of Argyle.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Laundry Sorts Shirts by Violet Rays.”
—Scientific magazine.
For violet read violent.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Does Father Know Best?” — “D.T.”
Given the right brands, undoubtedly.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In December they were united in the holy
bands of matrimony.” — “Sunday Sun.”
Meaning, no doubt, that they had to
face the music together.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dr. Giovanni Mauri, of Parma, Italy, has
announced that after six years of experimenta-
tion he has found a way to make rubber out of
tomatoes.”
Our cook has known that secret for
years.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“How to convert sound into motive power.”
—News heading.
Stop paying the instalments on the
radio, and see it dragged away.
4* 4* 4* 4
“Do distinguished authors read each other's
books T—“S.M.H.”
But would any distinguished author
admit that there was another?
4- 4* 4* 4*
“Girls as Car Demonstrators.”
— Women’s paper.
They’re so clever at knowing when to
give clients the brake.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“It was admitted that Mulligan had lower
than yesterday’s. At 11 a.m. it was 72, with a
humidity of 59 per cent.” — “Sun.”
Even that seems hot enough to make
Mulligan’s beer average higher instead of
lower.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Though the upper part of the face does not
grow after the 15th year, the lower portion
continues to grow for years.”
— “World’s News.”
It’s when you start to pay income tax
that your face really lengthens.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Sharp Little Woman.
“His wife is a sharp little woman.”
— Women’s paper.
We know the sort. She cuts out her
own dresses, cuts a good figure at a
dance, and when playing cards always
makes cutting remarks to her partner.
When her husband makes inappropriate
remarks she looks daggers at him, and
there is a keen edge to her tongue. She
plays a slashing game of tennis ; at golf
she slices her shots, and with all her
activities she can still razor family.
Of course everybody says that she is
simply cut out to be a wife and mother ;
but, as a matter of fact, she mostly has
her husband’s nerves on edge.
H. M.
“Snake found in driving seat of car.”
A hog is more often found there.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A Pennsylvania (U.S.A.) jury was fined
recently for reaching its decision by tossing a
coin.” — “World’s News.”
The heads heard “Tails!” and the jury
got a rough spin.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The traditional English nursery rhymes are,
in their way, perfect works of art.”
— Women’s paper.
It’s another work of art to get modern
kids to listen to ’em.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Age of Speed.
“Yes,” magged Nextdoor, “it’s all
speed these times. Aeroplanes hurtlin’
through the sky, motor-cars and bikes
tearin’ over the roads, kids on scooters
“What I save on petrol pays his Wages."
clumpetin’ along the footways. People
ain’t got time to live nowadays. They’re
too busy scurryin’ somewhere else. But
not for mine. It ’ud take somethin’ extra
special to make me go larrupin’ about
the joint, I can tell”
Came a thin whistle that quickly rose
to a shrieking blast. Nextdoor galloped
off into the kitchen.
“Dud - dud - darn whuh-whuh-whistlin’
kettle,” he gasped on his return. “As I
was (puff, puff) sus-sus-sayin’, no tut-
tut-tearin’ round (gasp, splutter) for
mum-mum-me! ”
Hanko.
A Matter of Swill-power.
“Join in the anti-cocktail campaign now!”
—Temperance speaker.
Yes, my friends! And shake it up!
Don’t bottle up your indignation any
longer, but pour it forth on the inebriates
around you, and refuse to mix with them.
Cocktails are certainly something to go
off pop about. Realise they are only
an empty pleasure. So give them up,
and you’ll have no kick coming!
Do not regard them passively for a
moment longer! They must be put
down!
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Some girls have hair like a broom,” de-
clares a famous hairdresser.
But how many girls know what a
broom is?
•I* 4* •I* •J
Then there was the bride who got to
work on an egg with a tin-opener.
Redeeming Feature.
Farewell to the year ’3B! ’Twas a time
That l shall be glad to forget.
It has made me go greyer than ever,
and I’m
Decidedly further in debt.
And yet, in a final review of the year,
There’s one thing that gives me a thrill :
In spite of its worry and trouble and fear,
A t least I’m a bachelor still!
T.W.N.
The Victory.
To what her tears mean I am wise ;
I try to parry them with laughter;
But yet such power in them lies
She always gets what she is after.
Oh, yes ! My fountain pen I find
And with a cheque {and in my mind)
l dam her eyes.
H.M.
According to Order.
“A 60-gallon cask of wine was fished up by
fishermen operating off the coast of Brittany.”
—News item.
What did they say when, hard alee
They saw that cask, these seamen
swart ?
We don’t know; yet it seems to me
The captain yelled out “Make for
port!”
DOUGAL.
I Was a Legionnaire.
XVI.
I wasted no time in making all neces-
sary arrangements for our desertion, and
tmi *,• * „ • . A - ar .
111 say this for my ex-manag.ng dnec-
tor, that he brought a constiuctive
imagination to our preliminary dis-
cussions.
He it was, for instance, who, when I
suggested we time our flight for the first
pitch-black night, put up the powerful
argument that the lookout for potential
deserters would naturally be keener on
such a night than when brilliant moon-
light prevailed. Again, when I announced
that we would depart dressed in women’s
clothing, he pointed out that two women,
alone teen traversing the caravan route
alone, seen traversing the caravan route
across the Sahara would arouse suspicion
He suggested we dress as Arabs, and 1
concurred.
Getting Arab clothes proved a prob-
lem, but I was equal to it. Under the
pretence that 1 was studying the subject
to fit myself for the secret service I got
all the information as to the various
items of clothing an Arab hangs about
him from the Legion library.
It took me a week surreptitiously to
, a * ■ /,•,
cut out and pa,nt w.th an awnmg-blmd
eftect the lalabia, sirwal baggy trousers
and the serd and juhba vests. Then the
burnous, which I bound round with
ropes of camel hair. It took us an extra
week dehairing the camels, which we
had to gag in the night watches. An old
tent which I had souvenired furnished
the material for the clothes. As we had
decided to dress as Touregs two blue veils
were necessary. The wives of the general
and the colonel no doubt wondered why
their hats looked so bare the next time
they put them on. As it was, I couldn’t
get the desired turquoise-blue effect, but
got close enough by soaking them in
blue-black ink.
To overcome the language difficulty I
proposed that we become marabouts,
those holy men who wander the desert.
We would be under a vow of silence.
I hoped that the Touregs had holy men ;
if they didn’t, we would have to fight
our way out of any trouble.
Strongly convinced that nothing tends
to win over a potential enemy so much
as a gift disarmingly given, I ratted the
medical store and lifted a few gross of
No. 9 pills.
On the night before we left I went out
into the desert and buried our disguises
and stores. When all was ready we went
to the camel lines, boldly presented an
order from the colonel that I had written
to give us camels so that we could pro-
ceed to Fizzgig with important dis-
patches, mounted Mustapha and Zubrik
and calmly set off.
Unfortunately I had forgotten to mark
the plade where I had buried the stuff,
and a sandstorm had obliterated my
footprints of the night before. It was
not until we had put in several hours
of hard digging that we eventually located
it, and by that time Septimus could only
swear in spasms. He was for abandon-
ing the project, but my iron will
dominated his.
So as to put as much space between
ourselves and the pursuers who we knew
would soon be on our trail I ordered
Septimus to keep up a gallop for the first
80 miles. After all, I was still his sergent
and I intended that discipline would not
be relaxed. When the animals started
to slacken speed after only 40 miles and
he was hoarse through urging his mount
on, Septimus, with a queer mixture of
discipline and familiarity at which even
I had to smile, saluted and said, “Say,
Stupid, wouldn t it be a good lurk it we
kept single file and dragged a weighted
bla P nJ{et * fter the
rear camel so as to
literate our tracks? The superstitious
goums will think, on seeing our hoof-
prints suddenly stop, that we have van-
ished into thin air and will give up the
chase. I immediately adopted this sound
stratagem.
Using my watch as a compass 1 had
struck due S.S.E. for Nigeiia, which was
approximately 1000 miles away, or seven
days’ regulation travelling for Legion
camels. That would bring us to our
destination on a Sunday, and as British
colonial officials, I knew, don t like being
disturbed at their golf on their day of
rest l decided tQ ease up and do only
| 2 q mdes the first day
it wasn >t und | the third day that we
experienced our first hardships. The
p dte. de foie gras sandwiches I had cut
had begun to get stale and the absinthe
had gone flat. Moreover, we had for-
gotten to bring a tin-opener and had to
throw all our tinned fruit away. Septi-
mus had tried bayoneting one tin open,
but had only succeeded in pushtng .t
through the sand clean out ot sight,
Fearjn ß g that he would break the point
od b j s bayonet, thus seriously weakening
our de f ences j ordered him to desist.
midday on the fourth day we struck
an oas j S) and d was here that we had our
first serious difference of
opinion. What little water
there was was green, and
1 ordered Septimus to
give the camels first
drink. My reason was
twofold: we depended
on the animals to get us
to our destination, and I
also knew that if my
companion attempted to
drink first the maddened
camels might tread him
into the oasis and spoil
it. Septimus, who is far
too fastidious, said he
wouldn’t drink water
after a camel. It was
time for discipline to be
exercised. Drawing my-
self up to my full height,
I eyed my subordinate
sternly.
“You have your orders, Spinnaker,” I
roared in my best parade-ground manner;
“see that they are carried out, you leprous
cheese-mite! ”
At that moment I looked up and saw
a band of Touregs galloping over a dis-
tant rise and making straight for the oasis.
Motioning my companion to silence, I
wrapped my striped tent around me and
calmly awaited their arrival. As they
drew rein, their rifles covering us, I
pointed to my lips and, talking on my
fingers, gave the usual pious greeting,
“Allah il Allah, wallah.” Apparently the
Touregs do have holy men, for the wild-
looking Emir who led them responded
with the formal “Inta magnoon Abyssia
Bookra.’'
Looking more closely at the Emir I
realised why he looked so wild —he had
the biggest gumboil I ever saw. Making
signs that I could assuage his pain, I gave
him a handful of No. 9 pills and indicated
that he swallow the lot, which he did.
It was some little time later when the
Emir, surrounded by his anxious fol-
lowers, was groaning and writhing on the
ground and holding his stomach that we
slipped away behind the oasis and
mounted our refreshed steeds.
“Well, that Emir won’t be following
us,” I said grimly, as we lit out for the
horizon.
S.W.K.


aa SEcuR/ryS
Don’t Speculate —
INVEST!
in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES
Annual YIELD over 5 p.c.
CUSTODIAN TRUSTEES:
Union Insurance Society of Canton, Ltd.
Write for Booklet No. 1 (it’s free) to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.
Telephone: 85294. 8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY. Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney, and 142 Branches and Receiving
Offices throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
this Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED IST2' .
Head Offices Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Australia and the Trade Wheel
The turn of the trade wheel is one
of those things on which everyone has
opinions, and the opinions are more
varied than the religions of mankind.
But whatever opinions people hold, and
whatever they do as a result, slumps in
trade and employment continue to fol-
low booms as naturally as a dog chases
a cat. Waves of optimism are always
pursued in commerce by troughs of
gloom, and the only thing that has shown
any real value in steadying this charac-
teristic instability of trade and employ-
ment matters is the use of a curbing hand
by those who exercise some control of
credit when optimism is supreme, and a
“pepping-up” pump when gloom is
prevalent. Needless to say, common-
sense administration of this kind is dif-
ficult to apply, because curbing of any
kind is resented by many classes when
times are good, and as a result there
isn’t much “pep” left in the banks when
business becomes slack again.
Another difficulty arises by reason of
different policies adopted in different
countries. The U.S.A. was given to
borrowing and spending, inflating and
“regulating,” at a time when Australia was
deflating and sobering-up after the boom
of 1929. France went much the same
way as the U.S.A. when Germany, Italy
and Japan were economising on a sweep-
ing scale. Britain’s course has been more
of a middle one, policy being bent by
the force of extraordinary circumstances
such as heavy rearmament expenditure.
Because the remarkable trade activity
in Australia from the beginning of 1935
to the end of 1938 didn’t result in in-
flation in our costs and prices on a large
scale, our activity has not so far been
left high and dry by falls in the export
prices that we receive for wool, wheat,
meat, metals, etc., which are sent over-
seas. The collapse in world prices fol-
lowed inflation in America, France and,
to a lesser extent, Britain ; the U.S.A.
got cold feet first and cut buying outside
of its own borders on such a wide scale
that the reaction had to be sharp and
far-reaching. Australia is noticing the
effect mostly in a fall in its London
funds and in the financial position of
its farmers.
We cannot be too thankful for
the relatively small rise in costs and prices
within our own shores. Wages have been
lifted, certainly, and taxes have been
heaped on rather than reduced (they
reached a record figure of £l7 6s. sd.
a head for 1937-38); but, though it has
been a struggle to resist these influences,
only in some special lines, such as bricks
and building materials, have there been
steep lifts in prices of the things we
use in this country. Steel, for instance,
is little, if any, dearer than during the
slump, while the cost of food and
groceries rose no more than 6 p.c. be-
tween August, 1937, and October, 1938,
and is at present falling rather than
rising. Obviously, this state of com-
parative equilibrium hasn’t been easy
of achievement. Few trade union secre-
taries would think twice about demand-
ing higher awards if they thought they
had a chance, and retailers and others
are prone to see “easy” profits by in-
creasing prices. Taken together, the
extras asked for are nationally fatal.
Bloated costs and prices send money fly-
ing from a country, they kill the export
industries and at the same time suck in
overseas goods (doing our own manu-
facturers and workpeople out of jobs)
so lon S a * we have funds in London .to
° r * em ' • n
If we recognise quickly, as we seem
to be doing, that times aren’t the best,
and if we continue to tighten-up on any
looseness in our financial behavior, we
may largely escape the social and econo-
mic difficulties being undergone now in the
U.S.A., in France and, on a lesser scale,
in Britain. In those three countries a
“peak” in trade activity and employment
has been reached and passed—France
first. U.S.A. next, and now Britain. In
the Commonwealth employment has
ceased to expand, a number of trades are
a trifle slacker than they were, but there
has been nothing sensational to record so
far. If we manage to hold this position
until the tide of employment turns over-
seas, we may miss a general setback alto-
gether. But we should be prepared for
periodical slackenings in the construction
trades, for instance. More than any other
“One of you blokes'll have to bail!"
enterprises, builders of “capital goods,” as
they are termed, are subject to cycles of
activity, and often those cycles happen
in one country without regard to another.
Houses and motor-cars are designed to
last for years, and once a country reaches
the state of being fully equipped with
them there may be a few years of com-
parative slackness until a new demand
sets in. Food, clothing and entertainment
are day-to-day matters.
Broken Hill Prop.’s output of ingot
steel for the 28 weeks to Dec. 18 totalled
464,406 tons, up 18,649 tons on the corre-
sponding period of 1937—representing
about a 4 p.c. increase. Since the Port
Kembla works of A.I. and S. became
more active it is hard to judge increases
or decreases in Commonwealth steel-
works activity, but B.H.P. figures on their
own have registered this small rise, even
though the tendency is for a “levelling-
off.”
* * * *
New York share quotations, which
closed firm before the holidays, opened
slightly weaker afterwards, the allegedly
strained relations between France and
Italy seemingly having something to do
with market temperament. Full recovery
was evident a day or two later. An un-
usual steadiness remains the outstanding
feature of Wall-street, and last week
there were hopes that Australian Changes
would open as firmly as they closed,
Except for unaccountable weakness in a
lew stocks (like Australasian Paper ords.),
the level of Commonwealth share prices
keeps very steady on the whole. Price
fluctuations in this country haven’t been
nearly so wide as overseas. And that is
as it should be—in keeping with our
own trade conditions.
* * * *
London Stock Exchange opened steady
after a five-day spell over the Christmas
period.
* * * *
Wheat continued to decline in price
almost to the end of 1938, but wool kept
steady at the rates averaged for the past
three months. There are hopes that the
average for the present season’s clip will
run out at not much less than lid. a
pound, with a cheque of about
£40,000,000. Income from wheat may be
halved. Butter and gold, next in import-
ance to wheat among our exports, should
be more than holding their own if taken
together ; production of both is up, and,
though the price of butter is down some-
what, that of gold is Meat, in
value, is becoming of increasing import-
ance in our exports ; this is largely be-
cause of the introduction of fast new
freighters to the trade. North Queens-
land is deriving particular benefit from
this activity.
* * • * *
The Australian index of employment
is our best indicator of trade activity,
since slackness in any industry is fol-
lowed only too quickly by the putting-off
of hands. The employment figures might
lag a month behind movements in indus-
trial production statistics, but, since they
cover all trade-union employment, they
are comprehensive, whereas a compre-
hensive table of all industrial production
isn’t available until many months after
the period dealt with has closed. Last
Commonwealth figures issued showed
that unemployment had ceased to de-
crease, but also that there wasn’t any
defined trend towards a slackening in
the number of people in work. In
Britain, the U.S.A. and France there
has been a notable drop in employment
for some time. We have stood up to the
setback in world trade very well so far.
* * * *
The chief reason, apart from the com-
parative stability of Australian costs and
prices, why this country hasn’t so far
suffered to a marked extent by the fall
j n our export income is that our manu-
facturing industries are largely capable in
bad times of supplying the goods which
j n good times we m j ght be in the habit
G f buying overseas. On two important
occasions in the memory of the present
generation Australia’s economy has been
dislocated through the drying-up of im-
ports: during 1914-18, when the Great
War made importing both costly and
hazardous, and during 1930-33, when
prices for our exports were so low and
our credit was so bad that we had diffi-
culty in balancing our overseas account,
But each of these periods had the effect
of toughening our industrial sinews ; we
couldn’t buy abroad, so we had to manu-
facture at home. A greater proportion
of our people began to stand, economi-
cally and industrially, on its own fee ;
and though “self-sufficiency” is something
that is deplored just now by many econo-
mists with international ideas, it is diffi-
cult to see how Australia could do itself
or the rest of the world a better turn
than by spending abroad no more than
it earns abroad, and by manufacturing
up to this limit inside its own domestic
circle. There is no good reason why any-
one should go short of any kind of
article, Australian-made, provided we
have the initiative and activity, as well as
the commonsense to avoid booms, high
P r i ces and wage-inflation. Finance can
a \ wa Y s be found provided industrial acti-
Vlt y has a solid basis,
* * * *
The production of gold in N. S. Wales
for 1938 is tentatively estimated at
91,6500 z., compared with 68,6070 z. in
1937. The returns of Wellington
Alluvials, the B.H.P. dredging show on
the Macquarie River, assisted notably in
the expansion. New Occidental, at
Cobar, was chief producer, as usual.
Commonwealth production for 1938 will
exceed 1,500,0000 z. In 1937 1,381,1350 z.
fine was the official tally, the best since
1917, when 1,456,0000 z. was turned out.
The year 1903 holds the record with
3,898,0000 z.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“No War in 1939.”
[The prophets of war have had such a free run—
fully 10 years, and certain to be in full cry again at any
moment —that at least one prophet of peace merits a
hearing, if only by way of a change. The singular
soothsayer is Lord Beaverbrook, in an article published
in London “Daily Express” after it had appeared in a
string of American newspapers.]
Europe is in such a state of unrest that any
observer is entitled to predict war. Yet there will
be no war; that is, no European war involving first-
class Powers.
Territorial concessions must be made. Indeed,
conflict of racial interests in Central Europe is immi-
nent. But, just the same, Europe will have peace for
years to come.
Many people will say that the Germans will make
war on Britain, but I predict that it is peace. And,
whatever the course of events in Europe, I adhere
altogether to the policy of Isolation, which is indeed
the present policy of the British Government.
Some may say that Isolation is a selfish policy,
and that we pursue it for selfish motives and with
the hope of national gain. That is not the case. The
Isolationist seeks peace, and he desires it not only for
Britain, but for the rest of the world. That is his
determined purpose.
But how can we get peace for ourselves and the
rest of the world? Certainly we are no nearer to it
in Europe if we join one side or the other in the con-
flicts of that continent, which are concerned almost
entirely with boundaries and nationalities and hege-
mony. If we join either side, we simply add sufficient
strength to encourage our allies to go to war. For it is
always from strength that war is launched.
With our immense and growing power on land,
on the seas and in the air, we can set an example of
peace by following our own pursuits, by guarding our
own interests and by extending our own influence at
home and in the Empire.
When the Poilus Mutinied.
[Apart from the incalculable horrors they must know
would be immediately let loose, those who advocate a
foreign policy leading directly to war, and increasingly
foster hatred to that end, must be either incredibly
callous or afflicted with such short memory that they
have entirely forgotten what a hazardous, as well as a
horrible, business the last war was, with victory uncer-
tain until right near the end. In the article here con-
densed from “Scribner’s Magazine” Major R. Ernest
Dupuy, of the U.S.A. Army, recalls one of the Allies’
most dangerous moments, the details of which, even at
this date, will be news to many.]
April 16, 1917, just ten days after the United
States declared war on Germany, the French Army
launched an offensive to end the war. Conceived and
directed by General Nivelle, the hero of Verdun, it
carried the hopes of a France already bled white. It
was her supreme effort —it could not, must not, fail.
Fail it did, smashed to red froth against a pre-
pared German line. Six days later French veterans
were screaming, “We are betrayed! They are assassi-
nating us! Long live peace!” The leaping flame of
panic swelled to a mutiny so vast that in six weeks
there fronted Germany’s might but the crust of a
baffled, beaten army. Behind that crust three of
France’s best army corps were frozen in sullen rebel-
lion, while the spindrift of mutineers, thousands upon
thousands, thronged roads and railways, bound home
to force peace at any price. And Germany did not
realise!
These are the bare facts. Throttled at the outset
by expert censorship, the story has for years been
buried in the secret archives of France.
On that fatal morning there were at headquarters
a dozen or more Senators and Deputies, hurried out
from Paris to see the great finale. These French poli-
ticians who had never seen red war at close range
were thrown into panic by the horrors they witnessed.
They used the telephone to Paris, clamoring that the
slaughter must cease.
Meanwhile, units relieved from the line, having
been cut up by continued assaults against impregnable
machine-gun nests, knew the attack had failed. Some-
one had blundered. Furious, heartsick, they gave
tongue. Not mutiny yet, but close to it.
To make matters worse, these troops within a
week found themselves ordered back into the line.
One division refused to march.
May 8, the offensive Was entirely called off. May
15, Nivelle was formally relieved of command and
Petain was appointed in his place. The news flew
through the ranks. The troops, sure now that they
had been let down by chiefs in whom they had be-
lieved, were told they would have a chance to rest.
But they did not.
May 20, the real mutiny day. There was no indi-
cation of concerted action. It was just that Jean and
Jacques had finally decided they had had enough.
In one cantonment behind the Vesle, mutineers
organised themselves on a crest defended by their own
machine guns, and declared they were through. At
Soissons, two regiments seized a train with the inten-
tion of moving on Paris and forcing the Government
to make peace.
Other mutineers seized a village, set up a Soviet
Government and placed before the high command a
series of demands to be put into effect before they
would return to the lines. An infantry regiment seized
a convoy of motor-trucks, mounted machine guns in
them and started a march on Paris. Red flags blos-
somed here and there. Men gathered in noisy groups,
listened to soapbox orators, called for soldiers’ coun-
cils, refused to fall in when ordered.
In rear areas, conditions were worse. As the
offensive died down, liberal furloughs had been
granted—the primary method to restore morale. When
the leave trains jolted through stations, the men began
to drink. Exhortations of malcontents did the rest.
Trains became caravans of rioting hoodlums. Entire
populations were terrorised. Officers were powerless ;
police were cowed.
At the Paris stations, serious outbreaks occurred,
mutinous soldiers and Parisian Communists joining
forces. Local authorities all along the railways called
frantically to the army for troops. Labor unions began
to strike, swelling the tumult. The Ministry of War
was besieged with requests for Senegalese riflemen
and cavalry to aid the police.
Petain had in his hands a mutinous army, in front
an aggressive enemy, behind him a cesspool of dissen-
sion. There were no more than two divisions between
Soissons and Paris on which he could count absolutely.
He demanded that the British keep the Germans busy ;
Haig responded with the Messines offensive.
Thousands of men were in confinement or under
arrest for mutiny; commanders were calling for
Draconian action. Petain asked for repeal of the laws
permitting appeals from court-martial convictions and
of the Presidential power of commutation of death
sentences. He got it.
Thus Petain, on June 9, held in his hand the
power of life and death; the news jolted the army
like a cold shower. Then he acted. Approximately
150 death sentences had been imposed upon ring-
leaders. Twenty-three of these were shot, the remainder
commuted by Petain to imprisonment. But —they
were whisked away in strictest secrecy. Jean and
Jacques vanished into thin air. Where were they?
“Who knows? Shot, perhaps!” Gossip did the rest.
The mutiny was over by June 15.
U.S.A. and Europe’s Power Politics.
[Mrs. Preston Stanley Vaughan, formerly a Sydney
M.L.A., is the latest to arrive back from the U.S.A.
taking literally “Mr. Cordell Hull’s oft-repeated offer of
‘parallel action.’ ” Yet another illustration of how
Americans really feel about “action” outside their own
country is given in this extract from a “Saturday
Evening Post” article by Delmaree Bess, a foreign
correspondent who attended the Munich meeting.]
The game of European power politics, as such,
possesses no vital interest for Americans. It has been
going on for centuries, and during our country’s brief
existence we have had as little as possible to do with it.
We were lured into this game once, during the World
War, and have been wondering why ever since. Ameri-
cans don’t like this game, because it is a bloody game
and a dirty game. Many Europeans don’t like it
either. The difference between them and us is that
they have to play it whether they like it or not, and
we don’t.
If Americans are to be dragged into this game at
all, they have to be persuaded that some other issue
is involved than a savage struggle for mastery of
Europe. What difference does it make to Americans
who is master of Europe? Certainly we would never
fight just to help one side smash the other in this ever-
lasting dogfight.
Judging by incipient movements already under
way in Europe, it takes no prophet to see that the next
campaign in America will be something as follows:
Germany has set out to dominate the world. She
threatens to overwhelm not only Western Europe and
Russia but also the American continents. She aspires
to impose her own uncongenial system of government
not only upon her own people but upon all the other
nations of Europe, and upon those of other continents.
Germany can be stopped only if she is smashed before
she becomes too strong. So the United States must
unite, in her own interests, with Soviet Russia and the
European “democracies” to smash Germany before
it is too late.
Does that have a familiar ring? Of course it
does. It is that good old standby the preventive war.
We were invited to fight preventive wars against Russia,
to prevent the spread of “world revolution,” and
against Japan, to prevent world domination by Japan.
We can’t blame European nations for trying out these
devices on us, but we can blame ourselves if we fall
for them. .
A turbulent flood of moral indignation already
has started rushing out of the pores of American Left-
wingers and Liberals. These ladies and gentlemen
assure us that a few Anglo-French reactionaries duped
their own people into acquiescing in a shameful peace,
and that it is now our duty as Americans to get
together with Left-wingers and Liberals in the re-
maining free countries of Europe and prepare to make
one more last stand against Fascism, totalitarianism,
and so forth.
I suppose there has never been a time when Left-
wingers and Liberals have dared to look facts in the
face about their own antics. If they did that now,
they would see that they are at least as much respon-
sible as anyone else for the Peace of Munich. The
unholy alliance which they contracted with the Asiatic
despotism in Soviet Russia has done more, in my
opinion, than any other factor to create the conditions
which led to the autumn showdown in Europe.
For years these misguided souls have yelled at
the top of their voices that the world has become
divided into two camps, Fascists and anti-Fascists.
They called upon us to join with Soviet Russia and
her satellite groups in ail countries in a crusade against
Fascism. They told us that only one choice was left
to us now —that between Fascism and the type of
“democracy” represented by Stalin’s rule in Russia.
They were so vociferous that they made millions of
decent people in European democracies believe this
was true. When it came to a showdown between the
Anglo-French combination and Germany, the sensible
common people of England and France were in a
mood to say: “If the only alternative is Fascism or
anti-Fascism, then give us peace.” And that is what
they got, at a price.
Since Munich it has become pretty clear, even to
those guileless Americans who delight in calling them-
selves “anti-Fascists,” that the Governments of Europe
do not fall into any such easy classifications as they
had supposed. Perhaps even our Liberals and Lei t-
wingers will now make an attempt to understand
Europe in other terms than in the fantastically false
terms of the “ideological war.”
The Peace of Munich merely brought to an end
one round in the everlasting struggle for dominance
which has gone on in Europe for centuries.
It is just possible that the peoples of Europe, sick
of centuries of almost continuous slaughter, may strike
some similar sort of bargain with their own generals
and politicians. Many Americans don’t seem to appre-
ciate that politicians in newfangled dictatorships have
to keep a pretty close eye on the people, the “masses,”
just as politicians do in our own country. Politicians
in dictatorships also hang on to their power not only
by the use of force but also by giving a majority of
their people many of the things they want. These new
European dictatorships are all, in practice, glorified
Tammanies.
During the few days last September when Europe
really seemed to be on the verge of war, the men and
women in the dictatorships as well as in the democ-
racies showed that they didn’t have the least desire
to fight. The martial spirit, apparent in some Euro-
pean countries in 1914, didn’t make an
anywhere in Europe in the autumn of 1938. I spent
the most crucial of those days in Berlin, the capital
of Germany, and I saw that the people of Berlin were
making it clear to their Nazi politicians that war would
be extremely unpopular. .
Even in the most extreme of dictatorships, the
people have a certain voice. That is especially true
of modem dictatorships, which make a show of
depending upon the people for support. It is particu-
larly true in Germany, where literacy has been uni-
versal for generations, and the people are not easily
fooled. . . .
I suspect that Nazi politicians, like politicians
everywhere else in Europe, are not unmindful of the
attitude of their people, as they saw it during those
days in September. It has become pretty clear to
them, I imagine, that the German people are no more
in a mood to go to war cheerfully to-day than the
other peoples of Europe. The people have made it
clear that they value peace above everything else and
politicians would not remain politicians very long
even under dictatorships, if they altogether ignored
the most ardent desires of their people.
So perhaps we shall continue to have such
Chinese-style combats in Europe as we had last
autumn. Let us hope so ; they are infinitely less costly
than real fighting.
Sanctions Started the Slide.
[Those who are now most voluble in Complaints over
Germany’s rise to power in Europe were in 1935 i and 1936
the most ardent advocates of sa .nctions against Italy
The Bulletin’s contention throughout that that f;arc
League of Nations experiment was a blunder winch
might have disastrous results is strong y supported in
this condensed London “Weekly Review” article by
Sisley Huddleston, who blames sanctions as one of the
chief causes both of Germany’s rise and France s fa I.]
There are two immediate reasons for the destruc-
tion of the French system in Europe. The first is the
application of “sanctions” to Italy by the League of
The Goodwill Touch.
Even Christmas had to be used in cables, to
carry on the bitter work of representing
Germany in as black a light as possible. The
Christmas spirit, it was represented, had no
place in Nazi Germany.
Swallowing this cheap rubbish whole, Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” wound up its Christmas Eve
leader in a spirit of goodwill unto some: —
Unhappy people derive some satisfaction
from seeing others worse off than themselves.
That is why Nazi Germany has no room for
Christmas. “Goodwill among men” is incon-
sistent with racial and religious persecution.
“Peace on earth” is an insult to the military
machine. Only in a democracy can the spirit
of Christmas find full expression.
Though it is common in cables for the lie to
be given a long start over the truth, the truth
does come haltingly along, on this occasion a
day after Christmas. Herr Hitler, it then turned
out, had given crosses to mothers as a Christ-
mas gift. Also:—
Herr Hitler gave a Christmas Eve party
to Nazi pioneers, who were entertained at
Munich. From there he went to Berchtesgaden
to entertain his personal staff.
Nine out of every ten German homes cele-
brated Christmas in the traditional form.
Despite the shortage of many types of foods
and also of coal, it was “prosperity Christmas”
in Berlin.
Many shops sold out the whole of their
stocks, the poor being especially favored.
Three million Christmas trees and 5,500,000
parcels of food were distributed throughout
Germany from the Winter Relief Fund.
German churches were crowded.
If the apparent differences between nations
with which this year ominously opens should be
brought to war—though there is no issue in
sight, nor likely to be, worth the sacrifice of
a blackfellow’s dog—those who are intensifying
hatred of other nations will have by far the
greatest, and a terrible, guilt.


Nations at the behest of Great Britain —a piece of
stupendous folly from which future historians will
mark the rapid rise of Germany to European
hegemony ; the second is the Franco-Russian pact,
which made Communism a vital influence in the dis-
integration of Western Europe.
Of the responsibility of the “sanctionist” League
for the present lamentable state of Europe, there
could be no question in a rational world. But political
passions blind the best; and it is still denied that the
feud with Italy which shattered the “front” of Stresa
(Italy, France, England) that “contained” Germany
gave Germany her chance. She seized it with the swift
decision that marks dictatorships. She reoccupied the
Rhineland ; she militarised this region ; and so she
cut off, as with an iron curtain, the French from their
Central European allies.
The military and diplomatic map of Europe
was changed at that moment; and already it was
obvious that we had lost Austria, lost Czechoslovakia,
lost the whole Danubian basin, lost the League and
the rest for the sake of a vain attempt to keep a
particular monarch on an unimportant African throne.
For all that followed was the inductable conse-
quence of the Rhineland remilitarisation. It was then
we should have fought, if we intended to resist.
Naturally we made matters worse by prolonging the
quarrel with Italy. Even after the Rhineland remili-
tarisation Germany would have hesitated had Italy
been prepared to mobilise again for Austria. To
make the game as easy as possible for Germany, we
stupidly cultivated our antagonism for Italy for three
years. We worked —that is to say our fanatical anti-
Fascists worked —overtime for Hitler.
And the Franco-Russian pact, doubtless incom-
patible with the Franco-Polish pact, was a powerful
contributory cause. It gave Russia a fatal footing in
European affairs ; it determined at Geneva the strong
anti-Fascist movement which divided the Continent
into two camps ; it established the Front Populaire,
in which the Communists were the principal active
force, and weakened France, financially, socially,
morally, by years of violent agitation and absurd
legislation ; it prolonged and exacerbated the perilous
Spanish civil war, in which French politicians helped
the “Reds” ; it pushed towards strife in conditions
of unpreparedness, for it would seem that Russia not
only aims at fomenting world revolution by war, but
thinks she will herself escape the consequences of a
general conflict on which she will sardonically look ;
it furnished Hitler with an unhoped-for pretext for an
“ideological” campaign, stimulating his own people
and bringing Italy and Japan into alliance ; and it has
already, in alleged retaliation, started a terrible anti-
Semitic crusade, spreading from Europe to the Near
East, and now setting Palestine aflame. It has be-
devilled Europe, and made the evil “sanctions” experi-
ment infinitely more catastrophic.
These last three years will seem incredible lunacy
to our children —assuming that mass dementia is not
a hereditary disease. For any sensible person, with
adequate knowledge and ordinary detachment, could
have foreseen each logical result of a crazy quarrel
with Italy and a crazier miscalculation of Russian
designs. Are our eyes open yet? lam not sure. If
they are, they are open too late. France has lost all
her positions in Europe and Germany has won them.
Spaniards Counting the Cost.
[K. S. Robson, writer of the article here condensed
from the “Nineteenth Century,” has had opportunity for
observing the effects of war on the Spanish people
behind Franco’s lines. He gives some details of the
terrible cost, and is convinced that the great majority
of all Spaniards now urgently desire peace.]
There are a few in Nationalist Spain who are.
enjoying the war and will be at a loss when it ends.
The type exists in every country, but perhaps most
numerously in the Peninsula, the spirit of whose con-
quistadores and guerrilleros still lives for all to see.
They give little thought to the part they are playing
in history ; they know life will never be so enthralling
to them again. But, though conspicuous, they are a
minority. The majority are dejected by the distance
from war to peace. Were they allowed they would
proclaim their desire for an immediate armistice on
any reasonable terms.
It is not the fear of defeat or of suffering physical
hardship. War has not touched the civilian population
in Nationalist Spain nearly as sharply as in Govern-
ment territory. There has always been plenty of good
things to eat and drink in General Franco’s 38 prov-
inces. Meat is being more thriftily distributed than
before, and beer cannot be brewed as quickly and
copiously as it is sometimes drunk. There is a scarcity
of rice, oranges, lemons and cigarettes. But these are
deprivations of no great consequence ; substitutes can
be found for most of them. Up to now the only serious
problem in Nationalist Spain’s domestic economy has
been to provide sufficient textiles without placing orders
abroad. It is likely that some may feel the cold more
keenly this winter than before. But again there is no
question of deprivation acute enough to cause grave
suffering or even apprehension.
As for the military, they will be a little better off
this winter than they were last, for they have pushed
their major battlefields forwards to country where the
climate is milder. General Franco’s troops are fed
remarkably well in the field ; on stagnant sectors this
winter they will, no doubt, be bartering their surplus
bread, meat and coffee for the enemy’s surplus anis,
as they did last year.
Yet, notwithstanding their resources, those who
committed themselves wholeheartedly to General
Franco’s cause in 1936 are beginning to ask them-
selves if the gains can be worth the appalling price.
Neither side publishes lists of casualties, and,
such is the bitterness of spirit, neither has accepted
the suggestion of the International Red Cross that a
record should be kept of the identity of enemy dead
found abandoned on the field. For obvious reasons
no official record has been kept of assassinations. The
number of judicial executions will probably never be
known. But as one goes about Spain one rarely meets
a person whose family has not been bereaved.
Spaniards who have been trying to keep count of the
number of killed since the war began put the figure
at at least 1,000,000. Of these the majority are young
men who would have served their country well in
time of peace.
While the war is costing thousands of valuable
lives, it is simultaneously fast laying waste the coun-
try’s economic resources. Both sides have under-
standably drawn impenetrable veils over their finan-
cial practices and over many of their commercial
transactions. But anybody can figure that the bill for
war material must be exceedingly heavy, and that it
will take years to rebuild the scores of destroyed towns,
villages and harbors, and the hundreds of sprung
roads and bridges.
No account of the cost would be complete with-
out taking into consideration the intangible but none
the less grievous wounds inflicted upon the nation’s
spirit by two and a half years of fratricide. To per-
suade the citizens of a country to wage war continu-
ously against their fellow-citizens it is necessary to
kindle hatred by fair means or foul and feed the
flames with unceasing extravagance. This has been
happening in Spain, with ugly consequences from
which the longer the war continues the longer it will
take the country to recover. The shooting of prisoners
of war who are known to have taken an active part in
politics, unchivalrous contempt for a brave enemy,
spy mania, denunciation of neighbors, unjust execu-
tions and gaols filled with harmless political suspects
are all manifestations of the peculiar brutality and
hysteria of civil strife.
I am utterly convinced that, promised an imme-
diate peace, the majority of Spaniards would accept,
confident that time and the Spanish character would
make the adjustments necessary for the welfare and
happiness of Spain. Two and a half years of war
have achieved the recognition of popular rights that
no Spanish Government will ever again be able to
ignore.
Protest Against an Agreement.
[Though Australia will feel its effects most heavily,
here as in Britain there has been a general chorus of
praise for the Anglo-American Trade Agreement, no
doubt mainly because it looked like an increasing of
ties between Uncle Sam and John Bull. In the article
here condensed from London “National Review,”
however, the agreement is vigorously attacked.]
' The Anglo-American Trade Agreement breaks
into the Ottawa plan and begins the weakening of
inter-Empire trade.
In 1902, Joseph Chamberlain began his famous
campaign for Empire preference, and asked for a
duty on wheat so that the colonies could benefit. After
holding the great office of the colonies for seven
eventful years, he resigned, and devoted himself to
awakening his fellow-countrymen to the great possi-
bilities which lay within the Empire. He died in 1914.
After nearly 30 years of effort from him, from
his followers, after years of hard education by facts,
after four years of war, in which the colonies sent
their magnificent armies to the support of the Mother
Country, Joseph Chamberlain’s great plan took shape
at Ottawa in 1932, when, under pressure from Aus-
tralia and Canada, an Imperial scheme was sketched
out, and as a beginning a few preferences were given.
The most important was that on wheat.
Owing to the Freetrade members of the Coalition
Government, such as Sir John Simon and Lord Runci-
man, owing to the indifference of Lord Baldwin, the
good foundations of Ottawa were not built upon.
What had been done, however, remained ; the most
important item being this duty on wheat. That duty
has been taken off “to please the Americans.” Foreign
wheat will now compete with Empire wheat, while
preferences to the British Empire on other foodstuffs
and goods have been reduced.
The Liberal-Socialist press greets the new measure
with enthusiasm. It is Internationalist and has
always disliked the Empire. The London Conserva-
tive press—if one may call any of the London papers
Conservative—also welcomes the agreement, the
“Times” because an Anglo-American Agreement will
lead to “appeasement,” whatever that may be. But
if there was ever a case of dropping the substance
for the shadow it is in this. Our best customers are our
Dominions ; we are endeavoring to squeeze them out
of our markets, and to turn their thoughts towards
the U.S.A. Our greatest trade future lies in the de-
pendent Empire ; we have opened this market to our
greatest trade competitors.
It is true that the Anglo-American Trade Treaty
does not altogether destroy the policy of Imperial
preference, but it greatly compromises it by removing
certain preferences, thus giving to the whole of our
trade policy a tilt away from the Empire and towards
Freetrade and internationalism, which the lessons of
history show to be destructive to us.
On the British side the treaty is wholly the child
of internationalism. The heads of the two British
departments, Mr. Malcolm MacDonald and Mr.
Oliver Stanley, are Freetraders ; their advisers evi-
dently also belong to that school of thought, which
thinks that it does not matter with whom you buy
and sell.
The fatuous idea of the British authors of this
plan is that it will “please the Americans.” After
the Irish Treaty and the abrogation of our alliance
with Japan this new effort is at last to create a warmth
in American hearts. It is much more likely to cause
friction. It has not been welcomed in the U.S.A. save
by two or three New York papers. The U.S. criticisms
of the measure are hardly reported in our press ;
instead “Our Special Correspondent” in New York
or Washington sends his own views of how pleased
America will be and how splendid it is for the great
democracies to have made such a plan, etc.
In England we feel far more kindly to Americans
than they do to us. But our good feeling rather irri-
tates them because they think it comes from a desire
to do them down. Our efforts to keep in with them,
therefore, are invariably misunderstood, and we should
be far wiser to realise this. The agreement we have
signed is for a period of three years. That is a very
long time, and one which may be fruitful in ill-will
between the two countries, and may lead to serious
differences. There should be a six months’ revision
clause in regard to Empire trade put on to the agree-
ment, so that from time to time we may be able to
minimise the damage done within the Empire by
this retrograde measure.
Democracy’s Lost Heroes.
(Condensed from an “Atlantic Monthly’’ article by
Professor Howard Jones, Harvard University.)
While the dictator nations grow in strength and
the question “Can Democracy Survive?” becomes
more serious, few people seem to realise that the
totalitarian States apparently have something that
democracy has lost. With their mythology of semi-
divine hero-leaders, their perpetual celebrations and
parades, they have made patriotism glamorous.
The official history of the dictator countries is
full of heroism, chivalry, romance. It takes the form
of the rescuing of the helpless maiden Germania or
Italia or Russia by knights-errant against overwhelm-
ing odds. It is a modern version of the King Arthur
story, the American Revolution and freeing the slaves
all in one. The result is that the Communist or Fascist
citizen has an exhilarating sense of living in a vast
grand opera.
Democracy had its own grand opera until, under
the attacks of the debunking biographers and social
historians, we grew shamefaced about it. Now that
scientific historians have destroyed most of the myth,
what are democrats to believe in? If democracy
should have to fight for its life against totalitarianism,
will it be emotionally inspired by the sound historic
fact?
If the fervor has gone out of our patriotism, one
cause may be the enthusiasm of “progressive” edu-
cators. We have debunked too much. All the heroes
have disappeared.
Meanwhile in Germany, Italy and Russia the
manufacture of heroes has gone steadily forward.
There is no use in saying they are fake heroes. The
only way to conquer an alien mythology is to have a
better mythology of your own.
It is not that we want unhistorical history. But
in our enthusiasm for depicting history in terms of
social movements and economic forces we have
omitted most of the thrilling anecdotes and the
romance of personal endeavor.
If we really want to believe in political democracy,
we need to be told over and over again what pain and
suffering it has cost. We need to know these things,
not as the products of economic forces, but as human
drama, so that the history of liberty may become a
living tradition. We need a patriotic renaissance,
reviving the history of liberty as a living faith.
Uncle Sam Stands Out.
Despite the wordy wrangle between the
U.S.A. and Germany and the much-advertised
comments by official U.S.A. spokesmen from
time to time on “aggressor nations,” “parallel
action” and “self-preservation of the demo-
cracies,” how the average American really feels
about being again embroiled in a European war
is constantly being voiced.
The crushing reply to Mr. Churchill’s crusad-
ing feelers given by William Randolph Hearst in
a nation-wide broadcast a month or two back
was a more trustworthy expression of repre-
sentative American feeling than all the utter-
ances of expedient politicians and sentimen-
talists. Also typical of reams of similar ex-
pression of feeling is the article on these pages,
“U.S.A. and Europe’s Power Politics.”
To drive home the point made by the writer
of that article as by scores of others—the
“Saturday Evening Post” in the same issue called
on its back files for the comment made by one
of its writers in 1935, when the crisis over
which appeal was being made to the U.S.A.
was between Britain and Italy:—
Those who would involve the U.S.A. in
Europe long ago abandoned all hope of get-
ting us into the League of Nations by the front
door. They have more recently put aside the
dream of getting us there by the back door of
the World Court. There remains the chance
of getting us there by the trapdoor, which is
the Executive branch of our Government.
Against the President’s head, in time of
crisis, will be directed again, as in the present
affair, all the combined resources of propa-
ganda, foreign and domestic. And if he yields,
the victories of the past, won against those who
have striven to get us into the cauldron of
European strife, will be lost.
That is representative U.S.A. feeling, not the
occasional moralising utterances which so
delude our sentimentalists.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
Under the Whip
The Carrington Stakes has been a
great race for mares. As in 1937, two
mares battled out the finish at Randwick
on Saturday, and Delmestor (8 to 1) beat
Early Bird by a head, Grand Boy being
a length and a half off third. Early Bird
was favorite at 7 to 2, and her backers
proclaimed her unlucky to lose. Cer-
tainly she lost lengths at the barrier, as
did the mare alongside her, Eastern
Maid; on the other hand, Delmestor’s
saddle shifted near the half-furlong, and
Stan Davidson had to sit still on her.
Another rider and other tactics were
tried with Bradford. Hurried along in the
first two furlongs, he led into the straight.
“It’s all over!” said all Newcastle, but
Bradford showed no dash when Grand
Boy challenged him, and was definitely
beaten at the Leger. The Villiers winner
Fakenham beat six home. Brown
Baroness, last year’s winner, was hope-
lessly left, and cantered after the field.
Delmestor is a four-year-old by Poly-
mestor-Deltis. . She has won nine races,
and there is no honester bit of stuff in
the business.
Bonheur de Pere had beaten Gold Rod
in a gallop, and the chestnut was
scratched. The filly ran poorly.
Heavy bandages on the forelegs put
nervous people off Bel Oiseau, a paper
certainty for the Juvenile. However, he
went out favorite, and won all the way,
though Good Morning was troubling him
at the finish. Penthides, a good type
of gelding by Pentheus out of that once-
useful sprinter Bonnie Marjorie, came
home well to run third.
Gilltown and Bramol were seen in two
exciting tussles at Randwick at the year’s
end. Gilltown scored in the Christmas
Trial, but in the Pace Welter Bramol (7 to
1) turned the tables. There was only half
a head between them Braidwood Boy,
solidly backed and finishing fast, was
third. The hot favorite, Mildura, cut it
badly in the straight. He was in a winning
position at the Leger, but, despite Mc-
Carten’s vigorous riding, refused to do
his best.
Bramol is owned by pastoralist Nor-
man H. Smith, of Wellington. The geld-
ing’s condition was a credit to trainer
Abbs.
• • • • • *
Cook, a youngster apprenticed to
Haylen at Rosehill, secured a chance ride
on Tartanus in the Novice. The lad gave
a capital exhibition, and F. Russell, the
Kensington owner-trainer, was not slow
in congraulating him. Tartanus started at
eights. He bounded away at the top of
the straight, and won in a canter from
Call Mag and Wallace Foote. The
favorite, Strathroy, refused to gallop. He
is owned by “Lorna Doone,” but is far
from being another Sylvandale.
Grafin, a full-brother to Fingra, who
proved a money-spinner for Douch, the
trainer, landed some nice wagers when
he led throughout in the first division of
the Maiden Handicap. He was backed
from 33 to 1 to tens. The second division
proved easy for breeder H. S. Thomp-
son’s Feminist, a nice filly by Pantheon-
Loquacious, that good sister to Windbag.
Favorite at 9 to 4, Feminist finished like
a flash on the rails, beating My Dear
and Aristocrat.
Hoots and groans greeted Rodborough
when he came in ahead of the Denman
Handicap field at 14 to 1. On the pre-
vious Monday he had failed to stay a
mile and a furlong, and the Denman was
a mile and a quarter. Second to Winning
Post until the three-furlongs pole was
in sight, Rodborough slipped away.
Neither Hedonic nor the favorite,
Sedunum (2 to 1), could catch him. High-
born, substantially backed, was beaten
at the home turn.
Rodborough is a bay gelding by Veil-
mond-Silver Cord. He was a good two-
year-old, but since the Breeders’ Plate,
which he w r on, he has been an in-and-out
customer.
* * * *
Two scratchings left eight to face the
tapes in the New Year’s Gift on Mon-
day, and mares had the finish to them-
selves. Getting off to a better start than
in the Carrington, in which the best she
could manage was tenth in a field of
16, Eastern Maid established an early
lead of two lengths over Lady Curia and
Let Slip and retained it to the end,
Moaveil getting up over the last bit to
beat Let Slip for third money. Publicity
ran a wretched race and seemed to pull
up badly.
Tattersall’s Club Cup, over a mile and
a half, provided one of the finest races
of the holiday season meetings at Rand-
wick. Red Sails and Woodsman were in
front from a capital start, but after run-
ning a furlong Young Crusader had shot
to the van, leading Woodsman, with Rod-
borough and Red Sails next, and Bristol
handy. Bristol, continuing to improve his
position along the back, was disputing
the lead with Young Crusader coming to
the turn, and led into the straight. In
the run home Bristol held off Red Sails,
to win very narrowly from Bringa, the
lightweight coming With a great run to
cut Red Sails out of second money by
as narrow a margin as that by which he
failed to overtake Bristol, who, with
McMenamin up in the place of Munro,
galloped in much kinder mood than in
the Summer Cup.
Demagogue (Windbag-Lipstick), a
gelding formerly raced by “Vernon
Wynn,” but now trained at Flemington
by Vin Ryan for H. Willott, caused a
boil-over in the Summer Handicap at
Mentone. Five of the other six runners
were accorded preference over this can-
didate, who started at 8 to 1.
Princess Pam was favorite at 5 to 2.
She attempted to lead all the way, and
opened up a gap of six lengths. Elmdale
tired in the effort to run her down.
Demagogue, benefited by being given
time to find his legs, came from the rear
of the field, and comfortably beat the
favorite, while Mate o’ Mine, always a
strong finisher, was third.
Kingdom, who in the early spring had
been regarded as a likely Victoria Derby
and Melbourne Cup winner, made his
reappearance after an interval of several
weeks. The Thracian colt moved freely
enough for a few furlongs, but dropped
out when pressure was applied.
Archie Crofts, the South Melbourne
sportsman, has got hold of another good
juvenile in Romany Chief (Lo Zingaro-
Chevy Chase), trained by F. W. Hoysted,
who did so w'ell for Crofts with Valiant
Chief and other descendants of Heroic.
Romany Chief was bred by Sol Green,
and is by an imported stallion out of an
imported mare. At 9 to 2 he was third
in request for the Beaumaris Handicap,
Sir Romeo heading the quotes at twos,
with Mac Rob next in demand. Romany
Chief squeezed home by a mere half
head from Snow White, but the pleasing
feature of his victory was that he finished
like a stayer.
Grant Hay, the Richmond brewer,
landed the six furlongs Sorrento Handi-
cap with Bridge Law, a four-year-old of
his own breeding. Bridge Law is by
Fourth Hand, the imported stallion
that James Scobie trained for Lord
Somers when the latter was Governor of
Victoria.
Second favorite with Trimon and
Grand Song, at fives, Bridge Law cut
down the former Sydney galloper,
Coronation Day, after entering the
straight, and beat him with a good deal
in hand. The favorite, Finch, bore scars
from her recent Ascot fall. She shaped
below her best form. Coronation Day
surprised his owner-trainer, F. W. Hoy-
sted, who had begun to despair of doing
any good with the imported son of
Coronach.
Billy Elliot, the leading lightweight
jockey, had the pleasure of winning on
Bridge Law marred by being carpeted by
the stipes at a later stage and suspended
for one month for having, when riding
Marianne in the Woodleigh Handicap,
interfered with Wantage, causing that
filly to drop from third position to the
extreme rear of the field.
The Woodleigh Handicap was confined
to three-year-olds. Pebblestone, whose
stablemate Demagogue had captured the
Summer Handicap, proved a false favor-
ite. Two in a thrilling finish were Bank-
shaw (sixes) and “S. A. Rawdon’s” filly
Trendel. Judge decided in favor of
Bam.shaw by half a head.
Bankshaw belongs to W. R. Kemball.
Bred in M.L., he is by Siegfried, sire of
Wotan and of Wilson, who may develop
into the best three-year-old in Melbourne
next season. “S. A. Rawdon” won a
Newmarket Handicap with Blague, a
half-brother to the dam of Trendel.
Rain Hazard, who started at 20 to 1,
annexed the Rosebud Trial, and Mc-
Shortodds had another turn-up, though
not quite so profitable, in the Talgarno
Welter, won by Manetis at tens. Manetis
(Manfred-Amantes) carried the colors of
A N. Colquhoun, a comparatively new
turf patron. Colquhoun is vice-chairman
of the Mentone Turf Club.
* * * *
Westralian form pointed to Gay Bal-
kan’s having a great Perth Cup chance ;
and Gay Balkan started at 7 to 4 in a
field of 13. He landed the money, but
Tetbury (8 to 1) gave backers of the
favorite a fright, going under by only
half a head. Dark David (20 to 1) was
third. By Gay Lothario-Balkan Rose,
Gay Balkan is a four-year-old brother
to Balkan Prince, and, like that good
horse, is a chestnut. He is owned by
W. J. Winterbottom, who raced Balkan
Prince in conjunction with the recently-
dead mining man and breeder H. E. Vail.
* * * *
In the Standish Handicap up the
Flemington straight six on Monday,
Manrico and Aurie’s Star carried their
turn-for-turn duel a stage further. At
their last meeting Aurie’s Star had won
as easily as Manrico had done the time
before that. They met on Monday with
Aurie’s Star one up. This time it was
no runaway. Manrico held a slight lead
all the way, and won nicely, when Aurie’s
Star weakened at the finish ; but it was
pretty even between the pair of them and
Master Motley with less than a furlong
to go. Amiable sustained a good finishing
run to take third money.
Beaustone proved a model of good
form in taking the Bagot Handicap
(1| miles) from Donaster and Buzalong.
Mutable made the early running, with
rapid changes occurring in second place
to the six, where Donaster ran up to the
leader. With two to go, Buzalong had
shot to the front, but into the straight
was joined by Beaustone, with Donaster
bowling along well and Avenger making
a strong forward move. Avenger stopped
very suddenly, having evidently broken
down badly, and Beaustone went on to
a nice win from Donaster, who passed
Buzalong again over the last bit.
Settling over the Christmas Eve (Wil-
liamstown) and Boxing Day (Caulfield)
fixtures brought loud lamentations from
Melbourne bookmakers; but they got
some of their own back at Epsom on
Wednesday, when four first favorites
crashed and the last event went to a 12-
to-1 chance, which paid £6 3s. 6d. for
a “dollar” on the tote.
Royal Jubilee, a Western District
horse, led off by taking the Dalmore
Handicap, for jumping jockeys, at 5 to 2.
He had to be hard ridden to cut down
the pacemaker, Star Leaf, but the latter
was in receipt of 191 b. Royal Jubilee had
scored at his previous two starts and is
a useful sort. Sired by Beau Fils, he is
out of a Trafalgar mare, running back
to Instep, from whom descended Auraria,
Aurum, Desert Gold and other great
performers.
Theo Lewis, who won the Williams-
town Cup twice for Jack Holt on Second
Wind, has met with a fair measure of
success in the role of trainer. Lewis and
his friends went for a plunge on Black
Robin (Christopher Robin-Wannandale)
in the Sturt Two-year-old, backing him
down to twos after 6 to 1 had been laid.
Second at the home turn, Black Robin
faded out in the final furlong. With a
brilliant finishing run, Mac Rob (Paren-
thesis-Llamrei) scored by half a length
from P. B. Quinlan’s candidate, Black
Beauty, a promising filly by Melfort from
Nocturnal, by The Night Patrol.
Sydney sportsmen who race as
“F. N. F. Lansdowne” are jointly in-
terested with Quinlan in the ownership
of Black Beauty, for whom they paid
350gns., a small amount compared with
their investment of 15.50gn5. on Fort
Regal.
Harry Gabell, who trains Mac Rob,
should win other races with that colt in
the immediate future. He came home in
a manner suggestive of stamina. So far
Gabell hasn’t had an outstanding suc-
cess with jumpers, but he landed a Grand
National Steeple with Sandhurst. An-
other timber-topper with which he did
particularly well was Broad Check. That
gelding, like Mac Rob, was bred by
“S. A. Rawdon.”
Arnshire, a handsome stallion by Gay
Lothario from Arnette, and, therefore,
a brother to Gay Arnley and Skipping
Girl, looked to have the Shoreham Trial
won when he overtook the pacemaker,
All Talk, a furlong from home ; but All
Talk came again and gained a half-head
verdict. Arnshire was a 5-to-2 favorite ;
All Talk started at sevens.
On his breeding lines All Talk (Heroic-
Gabblegash) ought to be carrying more
than 7st. 61b. in Trial Handicap com-
pany at the age of four years, particularly
with a 7st. minimum. Gabblegash was
sired by Magpie and traces back to a
half-sister to the dam of Greenstead.
Prittle Prattle was her best son.
The Cranbourne Cup winner, Hard-
wood, was never at a longer price than
6 to 4 for the Inglehurst Handicap.
Affected by soreness, he cut rather a poor
figure. With a long-sustained run from
the extreme rear, Con Devon scored
nicely from Bustard and Fancifort. His
trainer, C. Brown, came into the lime-
light a few years ago through the Caul-
field Cup victory of Palfresco, whom he
held on lease.
Kanuri, who has been quick to strike
form after a lengthy let-up, annexed the
Epsom Plate at the cramped odds of
5 to 4. It was a far different story in
the Epsom Purse, which went, as pre-
viously related, to an outsider —Dolphin.
Dolphin went wrong in the autumn
and couldn’t fulfil his engagement in the
Australian Cup, for which he was fan-
cied. Subsequently the chestnut was
handed over to Alex. Fullarton to be
schooled as a jumper. Quite recently
Dolphin shaped miserably over hurdles
in Adelaide. That he should be success-
ful on the flat so soon after his return
to Melbourne caused astonishment.
* * * *
Australian jockeys who first saw the
light in the last century were a hardy
breed. Pike was unequalled in Sydney
when, in the mid-forties, he retired from
the saddle, and he could command
plenty of riding if he decided to come
back —no remote possibility, some of his
friends say. Bobby Lewis was among
the best Australian horsemen for 40-
odd years. And here is “Brownie”
Carslake back in Australia, owning to
52 but looking about 35, and still aspiring
to ride the winner of the Epsom Derby.
Last season he was second on Scottish
Union, and first on that nag in the St.
Leger. Carslake is, of course, a Vic-
torian, but he gained his first consider-
able successes in S.A. There he rode
the winner of the Onkaparinga Cup
(Florin) in 1903, and in the following
year he was on the winner of the
Adelaide Cup (Sport Royal).
“Applecross”: I suppose that, of all
the Australian jockeys that have gone
abroad, Carslake and Bullock have fared
best; but Johnstone and Sibbritt have
been very successful. Most of Sibbritt’s
riding has been done in France, where
he has headed the jockeys’ list more than
once. His beginnings were humble. He
rode at unregistered meetings in Westralia
when the cattle were poor and triers
were few. His favorite stamping ground
was Bicton, a Swanside course reached
by buggy from Fremantle and by the
“gunboat” from Perth. The Zephyr was
her proper designation ; the incomparable
“Dryblower” Murphy christened her “the
gunboat,” and the name stuck. A price-
less collection of dead-game sports used
to go down the river to Bicton by “the
gunboat.” At their head was “Possum”
Ward, owner and trainer of an intelligent
animal called Oyster, but more noted in
the effete East for his prowess in field
fights. He it was who sent the most
famous fight-telegram on record—to his
anxious progenitor: “Won easy ; seventy-
five rounds.”
FOR MOOREFIELD.
Three-and-four-year-old Handi-
cap : Publicity or Geebung; next,
Braidwood Boy.
Peter Moore Cup: Publicity or
Geebung ; next, Bramol.
Moorefield Handicap: Improve-
ment ; next, Edible.
Flying Welter: Eastern Maid;
next, Heroic Faith.
FOR MOONEE VALLEY.
Cumberland Handicap: Demotic;
next, Princess Pam.
Coburg Welter: Finch; next,
Kanuri.
Dunalister Handicap: Fear-
nought ; next, Evening Mist.


Sjeuttje tiie TRUTH
Either your tyre gauge is accurate or it is
useless. • Have complete confidence in
your tyre pressures by using a gauge
which is guaranteed accurate—the
Kismet. Correctly inflated and
perfectly balanced tyres pre-
vent skids and tyre wear.
Guaranteed
Accurate —
v:
Handsomely finished in
stainless metals; cali-
brated 0-501 b. in single
units clearly marked on
flat surfaces. In neat
leather wallet.
lonvo auAi
JIL3II limSiilM
V yftyff
Price,
9/6
William Turner & Bros., Ltd., Eyre Works, Sheffield, Eng.
Factory Rep.: JOHN ARNOLD, G.P.O. Box 71, Melb., \ ic.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via “The Cape" and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAVILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
r 7
\
It
Si
V mr-=
ggggg-v
S=
%
• • •
Ins and Outs
Fresh from a bonnie hiding in Adel-
aide, the Cornstalks journeyed to Mel-
bourne to meet Victoria. Fingleton (45)
did well by his rather scratch side, and
N.S.W.’s first-innings knock of 294 might
have been worse. Cheetham answered
the call with 42, and Chipperfield came
along with one of his utility innings
before McCormick caught and bowled
him for 66. The wisdom of Solomon did
not carry him further than 30, but
O Reilly hammered in the brass tacks
with quite a scholarly score, for him,
of 47.
McCormick began what looked like a
second incarnation. He outed five Welsh-
men for 62, and earned every wicket.
Victoria opened with Rigg and Lee.
They stuck like glue until O’Reilly
bowled the home captain for 84, when
the total was 171. Gregory came and
proceeded to make up for earlier lapses,
getting 71, when White showed him
the way to go home. Incidentally, a
Barnes-Cheetham combination dismissed
Lee with his score 121.
Altogether, the Victorians made 504,
Sides contributing a dashing 53 n.o.
O’Reilly came out of it with six wickets
for 152, having bowled 43.2 overs- —a
wonderful display of stamina and deter-
mination.
The Welshmen started their second try
full of buck, though they were 210 in
the_ rear. By stumps they had' piled up
215 for three wickets, thanks chiefly to
Barnes and Chipperfield. Barnes was
snapped up by McCormick off F.-Smith
for a dashing 98 ; Chipperfield, a trifle
slower, was 72 n.o.
On the following day Chipperfield
could only collect another single, but
Solomon in all his glory laid into the
bowling until sheer carelessness saw him
stumped by Barnett off a rotten ball from
Ring for 99. White helped to raise the
total to 388. Fleetwood-Smith took 7 for
144, but at times he was slinging ’em all
over the shop.
Lee (37) and Sievers (48) gave Victoria
a good start. Gregory and Hassett failed,
but Ledward (27) and Sides (a quick 43)
made the match sure ; Victoria, by four
wickets. O’Reilly got 4 for 60. The
other N.S.W. bowlers might as well have
stayed at home.
* * * *
When the Queenslanders won the toss
at Adelaide they shouted Ha! Ha! like
the Biblical horses among the trumpets
and went forth to war. Desire over-
rode performance, the lads from the
land of crocodiles and rum fading like
corn before the reaper and binder, as
the poet says somewhere. The cause
of it all was the aged Grimmett, whom
the Australian selectors rejected, fearing
that he would not stand the voyage to
England. The ancient took six Banana-
land wickets for 33, being greatly assisted
by Walker behind the wickets. The
South Australian ’keeper is having a
good year.
To end a grievous tale the tourists
scraped up 131. Cook (34 n. 0.) led all
the rest. Mr. Sundries weighed in with
a welcome 10.
Queensland’s spirits revived a bit when
Ridings and Whitington were sent back
by Ellis and Cook for 18 runs, D. Tal-
lon stumping one and catching the other.
It was then that the trouble came. The
Bradcock combination began to work,
and for the rest of the day the Queens-
land share of the game was practically
confined to field exercises till these were
mercifully terminated by stumps ; Brad.
83, Bad. 79, both n.o. The batting was
very interesting. First Bradman hit a
four and then Badcock hit a four, etc.
The partnership ceased at 225, when
Bill Tallon caught the ex-Tasmanian off
Ellis for the round 100. Tallon also sent
back Hamence, c. and b., for 17, but
Waite made 52 and Walker 32. Brad-
man, out when the score was 426 (it
reached 462), played a characteristic
innings for 225. Christ troubled him a
bit, and after giving a chance off the
slow left-hander the champion tipped him
to Baker, who held the chance. The
double century was his 32nd in first-
class company and his sixth against
Queensland.
Though neither got sensational results
Christ and Ellis made a good impression
on the Wheatfielders. With plenty of
stamina Ellis kept his pace and length
through 26 overs, taking 2-87. Baker
did dirty work among the rabbits, taking
the last three wickets in one over. Don
Tallon let only five byes go in the big
total.
The Bananalanders lost the match by
an innings and 20 runs, but they died
game. On the last day they had 256 up
for 5 wickets before lunch, Baker and
Brown putting up a 95 partnership before
Baker was stumped by Walker off Ward
for 43. But Grimmett and Ward skittled
the tail, and all were out —for 311—45
minutes after lunch, the last four men
adding only 10 runs. The hero of the
innings was Brown, 174 n.o. It was a
great shot, one of the best seen on the
Qval, and the batsman never seemed
troubled even by Grimmett at his nastiest.
Grimmett, Ward and Cotton divided
the wickets. Grimmett, bowling in the
closing stages with a hurt leg, took 3
for 95.
* * * *
The first Test at Jo’burg was drawn.
The bowlers had little to rejoice at, but
there was some nice batting on both
sides. England ran to 422 at its first
attempt, the übiquitous Paynter contri-
buting 117, wicketkeeper Gibb 93, and
Valentine 97. Gordon took five for 103
and Mitchell three for 75.
The Springboks replied with 390 ; Dal-
ton 102, Mitchell and Nourse 73 each,
Viljoen 50; Verity four for 61.
Paynter (100) and Gibb (106) came
off again during England’s second knock,
and Hammond collected 58. Edrich, still
unable to get going in the big stuff, was
out for 4 and 10. At 291 for four it was
closed. S.A. lost one for 108 (Mitchell
48 n. 0.).
* * *
“Tenth Slip”: E. L. Waddy has
applied to the Board of Control for a
permit to take an Australian cricket
team to North America, and has been
refused it —the Lord and the Board only
know why. The idea was that the team
would leave Australia at th'e end of this
season and return before the start of
the next, as Mailey’s combination did
in 1932. The incomprehensible Board
won’t have any Cahns in this country.
* * * *
“Marino”: Cricketers the world over
regret the death of A. W. (“Alby”)
Wright, for 20 years beauty specialist to
the wicket at Adelaide Oval. He had
been a little off color, and his sons, who
are his assistants, put the final polish on
the wicket for the S.A.-Q. match. Wright
was 63 ; for over 30 years he had been
on the Oval ground staff, being appointed
curator in 1920. He was a useful all-
rounder in his playing days.
* * * *
Bill Whitty, the pre-war Australian
bowler, is now 52, and resident in S.A.’s
south-east, but still visits the city for
picnic matches. In that company his
left-arm stuff is still as deadly as when
he took 170 wickets for S.A., and went
to England and South Africa.
* * * *
“Stanleys”: The annual clash between
Sydney and Queensland Universities at
cricket saw N.S.W. score 316 and Queens-
land drop its bundle, the parcel being 148
runs. Ma decided that 88 more would
be enough, and closed with four down
at that. The Banana-eaters of Brisbane
ran up 253.
* * * *
Justice Evatt, just returned from
abroad, conferred much on cricket mat-
ters with the Marylebone executive and
others, and is sure that, if properly
worded, the English Board will consent
to six-day Tests in England. At present
only about 50 p.c. of Tests are finished.
With six days the percentage would be
at least 90. Interesting was his Honor’s
statement that a large section of the
press showed bitter hostility to the last
Australian team. With the English
officials, players and public generally,
the tourists were very popular every-
where.
Racquet and Bawl
“Rev. Knucklebone”: Australia’s
Davis Cup chances have jumped. The
reason is not the improved temperament
of our players, but that Gottfried Cramm
has written to Budge saying that he is
out of big tennis for good. Budge points
out that Cramm’s departure will leave
special openings for the Australians if
they have the nous to take advantage
of them.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Some of our tennis
writers are squealing because Budge and
Myers have ranked Austin above Brom-
wich. Bromwich has won more matches
than Austin, having played a lot more ;
but on the only time the pair met last
year the Englishman won.
* * * *
“The Hutt”: Australian girls have
done well in M.L. In the finals of the
singles championship Miss Hardcastle
(Queensland) defeated Thelma Rice
(N.S.W.) in straight sets, and the pair
won the doubles, 2-6, 6-4, 6-3.
* * * *
“Top Spin”: Some of the most in-
teresting items in overseas tennis seem
to miss the cables. One from an English
exchange makes an attack on the L.T.A.
for not upholding the footfault rules and
umpires’ decisions thereon. When Mme.
Mathieu was playing Nancye Wynne at
Wimbledon an official footfaulted her.
She came close to tearing the courts
down or up, and, sending for the boss
cocky, demanded that the ump. be at
once removed. This was done, and
dignity was satisfied.
Miscellaneous.
An Australian pair, Len Rogers and
Parmley, carried off the laurel wreaths
—huge affairs, more after the style of
the guerdons usually awarded to prize
cattle —offered, plus more material re-
wards, for Sydney Arena’s six-day bike
race. Bambagiotti (Italy) and Grieg
(Sydney), who teamed up after the Italian
had lost, his first partner, were in second
place. They covered the same distance,
1672 miles, but Rogers and his cobber
ambled in on points—l 724 to 931.
Rogers’s riding, sprinting in particular,
was the best feature of the show.
* * * *
Dr. Kevin McCarthy, who died at
Footscray on Christmas Eve was not only
one of the ablest presidents the Vic.
Football League ever had, but was also
to the fore as a philanthropist and social
worker. In his schooldays at St. Pat-
rick’s College, Ballarat, the doctor made
his mark in football and cricket. On
leaving school he went to Queensland
as a teacher and represented that State
at inter-State football, and subsequently
played with Melbourne Uni. in the
Amateur Association. He became presi-
dent of Footscray Football Club just
after going into practice in that
suburb, though he had no personal in-
terest in League football, but soon be-
came one of the pillars of the game.
* * * *
“Walgara”: Tell “Twickenham” (B.
9/11/ ’3B) that Maoriland footballer
Bobby Deans wasn’t “killed with the
M.L.M.R. in the Sinai-Palestine cam-
paign.” Bobby died at his home at
Christchurch in 1908, and the R. G.
Deans Scholarship in connection with
his old school perpetuates his memory.
The best of sportsmen, he even excused
the referee who disallowed his try against
Wales in 1905 (“as fair a try as ever I
gained”) on the ground that the official,
badly winded, wasn’t on the spot and
had to make a guess as to what had
happened.
* * * *
“Stand Off”: The British Rugby Board
is trying to smooth the way for the Aus-
tralian team which goes to Britain next
year by mapping out an itinerary which
will save as much travel as possible.
In Wales the team will have central H.Q.
at Porthcawl, and London will be the
centre for the University matches, the
“home counties” and the Midland
matches. The American Eastern R.U.,
which has ten Rugby clubs, including the
crack universities like Yale and Harvard,
is anxious that the Australians should
play a series of matches in the U.S.A.
on the way to England. That is out of
the question, though something may be
done on the way home.
* * * *
“Gate”: The N.S.W. Rugby League
has abandoned all projects for getting a
team to Australia from Europe or Maori-
land, and will spend next season in
reorganising club and country football,
which is at a pretty low ebb. A com-
mittee has been appointed to handle these
and other matters, and the League will
wisely cut its coat according to its cloth.
* * * *
“Fitzcray”: In addition to the West-
ralian raid on Melbourne footballers,
some of the local clubs are trying to
raid neighbors, particularly “Sowth.”
“Sowth” had a bad year, and there is a
belief that after such an experience
players are apt to seek fresh woods and
pastures new. But “Sowth” officials have
locked the barracoon and are sleeping at
the door. None of their signed up helots,
they say, will be allowed clearances to
Perth, Timbuctoo, or any other place.
* * * *
“Long Dog”: Dog-racing in England
has had a record year. Twenty-three
million attended 62 tracks, and prize-
money dished out was £350,000. Har-
mon, of Wimbledon, topped the winning
trainers’ list with £ll,BOO, his best client
raking in £4500. Irish dogs are favored,
and £66,000 was sent across St. George’s
Channel during the year for 2800 bow-
wows.


ĵ
WILCOX SMITH & CO
Postage Stamp Merchants
Liverpool Street,
Dunedin, N.Z.
1G Page Buying and
Selling last Free.
Established 49 years.
Bankers: The Union.
cnxrv^
I.'l-117-111).'IJ
Twicz Daily -230-&
AT THE
L
SYDNEY
Twice Da ih/ 230-6
“SNOW WHITE” in the Fleah.
(Adriana Caselotti.)
and New Oversea All Star Acts.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: Cent. 928-929.
“SWING IT"
with Larry Adler
and Big- New Company of Stars.
Plans Theatre. ’Phone: MGB3S.
Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you—now worry them:
although “worry” is hardly the word, for
A’CORN SILK does not trifle with corns, but
ruthlessly kills them. How comfortable your
feet feel after A’CORN SILK has removed
all your soft or hard corns —a 6d. packet will
do this for you without pain or inconvenience.
Corns are killed while you sleep —a matter of
a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN SILK at
6d. per packet. Packed by Felton, Grimwade
and Duerdins, Ltd., Melbourne,
SUNDRY
SHOWS
King f s Cross New Year.
“Yes, I’ll have another,” said Grandma,
who at 79 was being introduced to cham-
pagne in Sydney’s King’s Cross.
“And I,” said the Elegant English Visi-
tor, “propose to parade.”
Regally she led the procession into the
street, leaning on the arm of somebody
who looked like Snozzle Durante’s uncle.
Normally, a garb which consists of a
beautiful peacock-green Paris ensemble,
set off with jade earrings, diamonds and
a lorgnette, is apt to inhibit informal
intercourse; but the addition of a sailor’s
cap and the whiskers of Popeye’s Papa
neatly executed in ginger orange straw
makes even a Mayfair hostess own sister
to the bottle-nosed, chorus-girl-hatted
generality. Everybody spoke to the
Elegant Visitor, and she spoke to every-
body with a stately condescension —
policemen, taxi drivers, ladies-no-better-
than-they-should-have-been, refugees.
The streets were packed with a sway-
ing and highly vocal crowd. Every flat
window displayed a party and advertised
its possession of a radio. A jumbled mass
wrestled in a shipwreck of confusion in
the shop that sold masks and rattles. At
a street corner there was a milling ring
above which it was possible to see the top
end of a tall policeman round whom
raged sounds as of strong men arguing
profanely with the umpire.
Then came midnight with a bang and
a yell. The mob which filled the Seven
Ways and blackened the parapets and
windows seemed to double in intensity
and go mad. Hooters and motor horns
vied with a universal effort to sing “Auld
Lang Syne.” The clang of tram bells
mingled with the crash of hungers.
“Let’s go home and go on the roof?”
said the Elegant English Visitor. With
stately grace she conducted Grandma
across the road.
On Hampton Court roof her sponsors
were glad to have Grandma there. For
by that time the celebration below had
become more purposeful. The crowd was
engaged in trying to push tramcars and
motor-cars over. And Grandma was
critical. If she had been down there those
tramcars would certainly have toppled.
Suddenly everything was quiet. The
vast stretch of Sydney lay all round,
twinkling acre on acre of diamonds, set
here and there with the brighter jewels
of the Neons, and bound in with the
soft dark frame of cloud and sea and
mountain. Below, the crowds thinned
out into scattering flurries of unsteady
ants. Noise scaled down to the occasional
clang of a kicked-over garbage tin, the
crash of a belated hunger on a tram
track.
By dawn there was nothing of King’s
Cross New Year’s Eve left save a scurf
and litter of dead marines, dead balloons,
broken trumpets, tattered streamers. A
tradesman’s cart stood solitary; in its
shafts an old mare; on her head a tin-
selled shako gay with streamers and tied
at an elegant angle with somebody’s
suspenders.
And lower down, his feet in the gut-
ter, was the Forgotten Man, by his looks
a retired bishop. With all the neatness
and order of a solid citizen, he was busy
taking off his boots. Apparently he had
the laudable intention of going to bed
where he was, but was having difficulty
with his laces.
“Down On the Farm.”
This is the Jones family reporting for
duty at Sydney Regent, and in fine fettle
again after their temporary lapse into
bad form.
Most important development is that
they’ve cleared up the calf-lurv business
at last and made it a breezy affair all
round—one of the highlights of the film,
in fact.
J. Jones and co. have moved down to
the farm, where the main event of the
year is a “husking competition.” This
appears to be an American version of
Liam O’Flaherty’s reaping race; com-
petitors, instead of reaping, stripping
rows of maize. J.J.’s election to the
Senate hangs on his success in the race,
which he achieves with the aid of copious
draughts of corn whisky and other divert-
ing assistance from enthusiastic on-
lookers.
An excellently-cast and well-paced film
and bright entertainment, with amusing
home truths thrown in.
“That Certain Age.”
Deanna Durbin, Jackie Cooper.
If this lightly entertaining patter at
Sydney State is any augury of things to
come, 1939 should be noticeably brighter
than as predicted by furrun correspon-
dents and other prophets of gloom.
When present commentator dropped in
it seemed that the Durbin lass’s warbling
“If I walk orf of ’ere, none of yer flamin' promises'll get me to walk back."
was not quite up to the standard set in her
earlier films. Her top notes were always
a little shaky, but here there is evidence
of a little huskiness and, occasionally,
less enthusiasm than she showed previ-
ously. The fault may rest with recording
and reproduction, or with the tunesmiths,
who haven’t provided her with much
opportunity. She sings the Waltz Song
from Gounod’s “Romeo and Juliet”
and Delibes’s “Filles de Cadiz” very
prettily, but beyond those there is not
a ditty that would do justice to a canary.
As for the story, though there are few
things more distressing than the spectacle
of a moonstruck flapper, it’s not half as
bad as it threatens, since the object of
Durbin’s adoration is Melvyn Douglas,
lately returned from furrun correspond-
ing in Spain, with a bullet wound in one
of his supports and a commission to
give the dinkum oil on what’s going on
over there. Peace and quiet being neces-
sary lubrication for his typewriter, he
adjourns to the home of his boss, where,
commandeering the guest-house, he in-
terrupts rehearsals for a Boy-Scout jam-
boree in which the Durbin miss, daugh-
ter of the house, is to figure. The lass’s
determination to worry him out and pro-
ceed with the musical doings quickly
swings to the other extreme, and there-
after the films flows smoothly along,
with Master Cooper, considerably per-
turbed, running a bad second to the
entirely innocent Mr Douglas.
Both filmsmiths and cast do a com-
mendable job in treating the whole busi-
ness so swiftly, lightly and pleasantly that
it just froths up to an airy bubble, bursts
with scarcely a splutter and floats into
the limbo of other such pleasant fare.
5
“Submarine Patrol.”
„ „ D . . .
Nancy Kelly, Richard Greene.
Showing at Sydney Plaza, this is honest
rousing melodrama of war-tune vintage,
with a branch Ol Uncle Sam s navy
chasing and playing the merry devil with
the Kaisers submarines.
It s a fairly well directed film and,
except xor the opening sequences, moves
at a good pace keeping interest on an
agreeable note of suspense. It concerns
mainly the knocking into shape of a
makeshift crew on a submarine chaser
as they have various narrow shaves with
and victories oyer hostile underwater
* craft. One bit in which a chaser feels
its way slowly through foggy and mine-
ridden waters to find and destroy a
submarine is definitely a hair-raiser.
Plenty of light humor relieves some
of the more serious moments, and heart
interest between a Broadway playboy
serving in the ship’s engineroom and
daughter of the skipper of a supply boat
which follows the fleet is threaded
throughout and winds up on a pleasant
and novel note.
Miss Kelly, a newcomer, is a good-
looker and satisfactory if not outstand-
ing ; Mr. Greene, whose two previous
showings were dreadful, has improved a
good deal. Supporting cast is excellent—
a noticeable feature in recent Twentieth
Century Fox offerings—with Preston
Foster and George Bancroft captaining a
couple of ships, and Slim Summerville,
Henry Armetta and John Caradine filling
minor roles.
“Little Miss Broadway.”
Shirley Temple.
Saw this through a forest of pigtails,
ribbons, artificial curls and other juvenile
adornments at Sydney Mayfair.
Miss Temple has progressed beyond
all previous sophistication and pre-
cociousness. She hoofs with ‘and croons
yearning ditties to Mr. George Murphy
in between being adopted from orphan-
age and saving foster parent his pub
when landlady threatens to move in. Her
final magnificent effort is to stage a
Broadway show in a courtroom and so
melt the stony hearts of Edna May
Oliver, a tough old Judge and sundry
other hardbitten persons.
“Nancy Drew, Detective.”
Bonita Granville, Frankie Thomas.
Despite the nature of the yarn which
they have to drag along, these two young-
sters make pleasant entertainment of this
support at Sydney Century.
Both natural and likeable kids, they
can act. The Granville lass is about the
best of her kind appearing at the
moment; young Thomas generally man-
ages to land quiet roles which he handles
with admirable restraint and success.
This time Miss Granville figures as a
young miss with a bent for sleuthing,
and she and her offsider are mixed up
in all kinds of trouble before they rescue
the old lady who was kidnapped on the
morning of the day she was to give a
quarter million dahlars to her old school.
The filmsmiths threaten that this is
the first of a series to feature the cheild
detective ; if Miss Granville is to figure
in them she’ll lose a lot of her reputa-
tion. That both the youngsters deserve
better films is obvious from the manner
in which they lift bellerdrammer to
agreeable light entertainment.
“The Affairs of Annabelle,” at Sydney
Mayfair, is a stretch of broad knock-
about humor with Mr. Oakie in fine
fettle and showing his paces
to the charming Lucille Ball.
She’s the somewhat tem-
peramental actress and he’s
her publicity agent. Quite
bright in spots.
“Forbidden Valley,” do-
ing the rounds; a light-
weight Western in which
Noah Beery junior emerges
after 20 years from his
mountain fastness to clean
up a bunch of rustlers and
clear his late parent’s name
of moider. Bang-bang-bang,
clinch and some arresting
outdoor photography, in
which full advantage is
taken of mountain scenery
and shadow effects provided
by sunlight streaming
through the trees.
“The Lady Objects,” at
Sydney Plaza, has to do
with struggling young archi-
tect whose wife achieves
fame as lawyer. Husband,
fed up with playing second
fiddle, clears out, until need-
ing wife to defend him on
moider charge. Nothing
new, but neatly acted in
places.
Melbourne Tivoli.
Though temperatures have
been climbing above the
hundred, crowds have been
pouring into Melbourne
Tiv., where Frank Neil is
serving first-rate vaudeville
with Christmas fittings.
If there is nothing much
better on the programme than the Crazy
Plasterers there is nothing much worse,
and the Crazy Ps. are excellent. The
Voice of Snow White is still advertised
as being present in the flesh of Adriana
Caselotti, as also in the flesh are the
Famous Tivoli Ballet.
Melbourne Revue.
Having inspected Willie Howard at
Melbourne Princess, The Bulletin’s
Melbourne judges agree with their Syd-
ney colleagues that Willie is something
out of the ordinary in the way of
comedians.
He is a dark, saturnine-looking, long-
nosed little man with a flair for the kind
of caricature which gets close to reality.
His study of a Mexican President trying
to tell the people how proud he is to
have been elected while they perforate
him with bullets through the window has
affinities with a Frith cartoon in its
breezy impertinence.
Eight negro Apple dancers gyrate at
a speed which would beggar description
if it was not already impoverished of
adjectives by the gymnastics of the two
white Apollos who manipulate each
other in a more than usually incredible
fashion.


fcjfeuUetin
Limerick Competitions
ELEVENTH COMPETITION
£5O Prizes
The advertisement of the Eleventh
£5O Limerick Competition appears
in this issue on Page 35 (Radio
Page).
Melbourne Panto.
After presenting “The Women” and
“I Married an Angel” to a percipient
public, Ernest C. Rolls surprised the
fathers and mothers by offering in “Jack
and the Beanstalk” the gentlest panto-
mime ever seen at Melbourne Majesty’s.
The incalculable Rolls so completely
violated the tradition that the panto, dame
and her offsider should be a factory of
Rabelaisian jests that what Don Nicol
and Fred Harper do and say would not
bring a blush to the cheek of the prin-
cipal of a ladies’ college.
In addition Mr. Rolls uses his escalator
and other mechanical gadgets to speed
up production, and with his assistance
Kathryn Crawford, as the princess of
platitude, performs such feats of magic
as dissolving the giant’s kitchen into the
fairy palace with a satisfactory celerity.
Another offence against tradition is the
introduction of Helene Denizon as a
dancer who really can dance.
Other attractive features are a wattle
ballet which draws wild plaudits from
the juvenile audience ; Jessie the Cow,
which hides the identity of Bert
Matthews ; William O’Neal as the Giant,
and the legs of principal boy Bernice
Claire, which are as well-formed as her
soprano.
“Whiteoaks.”
Followers of Gregan McMahon’s star
in Melbourne received with joy the in-
telligence that “Whiteoaks” was to be
revived at the Comedy.
Present critic doesn’t feel quite the
same enthusiasm for the playwright’s
potted version of Mazo de la Roche's
whale of a novel. But a play of family
life which does not go too far below the
surface is always welcome in Melbourne,
and the cast of assorted domestic charac-
ters headed by Beatrice Desmonde is
even more up to its business than in
the first presentation.
Conjured Up by Chang.
In his entertaining show out at New-
town Majestic, honorable Chang con-
jures up something else besides rabbits
out of hats, live ducks out of flaming
tureens, pigeons and fish out of thin air
and decorative young ladies out of empty
cabin-trunks.
His magic started to work days before
the show was visited, when a letter of
cordial invitation came along enclosing a
voucher for “two good seats.” This was
one right out of the blue, nothing having
been heard from the Majestic since Allan
Wilkie had ‘School for Scandal” there —
so long ago that the right tram stop, what
the theatre looked like and where it was
located had passed clean out of mind.
So, without having been near him, hon-
orable Chang was, in a way, responsible
for conjuring up a theatre past that has
all but completely vanished—to the extent
that it must be written that 1938 was one
of the worst years on record for the living
theatre in Sydney. It is not such a long
time, either, since it had at least the
appearance of flourishing—a great deal
more recently than the period recalled
by Sir Granville Bantock when he
dropped in on The Bulletin the other
day.
The one-time conductor for “The
Gaiety Girl” had a lively recollection of
when that bright piece of last century
was at Sydney Lyceum. It was students’
night, and the lads in the gallery had a
string stretched across from side to side
with an unsheathed tin sword suspended
in the middle directly over the conduc-
tor’s head. As the orchestra warmed up
to its work, the sword was gradually
lowered till the point was right on the
dead centre of the conductor’s cranium.
In that position it was jerked up and
down, the conductor doing his best.
It would be scandalous behavior now,
for the living theatre in Sydney has long
since passed through the stages of being
civilised until it has become decorous,
not to say decadent, as well. The Fourth
Wall—what there now is of it —is polite
as a paddockful of curates. Decorously
it applauds, or else it stays away. There
hasn t been a full-throated pronounce-
nient from it since the foreign-sounding
Bravos! when the last lot of Italian
opera people were here.
As for the bird or the far-flung
tomato, the one is a dodo and the other
would be Central Police Court in the
morning. It was considered outrageous
ew years back schoolboys greeted
the Ghost of Hamlet’s Father at the old
pera House with a barrage of bull’s-
eyes. Undergrads, at the former Tivoli
as late as the mid-1920’s baited a
comedian into hopping over the footlights
and hopping into one or two of them ;
the ° utcl T of the press was such that
Sydney has seen nothing like it since.
as wel1 ’ to o—perhaps. But
re b e a close link between the
f, res^ nt deadness of the Fourth Wall and
mL d< S dn / SS ° f the ? tage - Be that as it
ac 't ls that in Sydney the living
theatre has all but disappeared.
Out at the Majestic Chang and his
myrmidons in ‘A Trip to Hades” were
o some extent holding the near-abdicated
iort over the Festive Season. Previously
Lnang had been a 40-minute act at the
present Tiv., another of the remaining
outposts, and, as far at least as vaude-
ville goes, a pretty stout defender. Then
there is the old Royal, just now giving
11 if S * * n s h a Pe of the Russian
Ballet; before that went into garrison, a
number of fairly good revues. These
outposts, it must be said, somewhat seedy
in architecture and furnishings compared
with the luxury of the rival talkie houses.
At all events, none of them is offering
authentic drama. The only taste of Shak-
speare, Shaw and the like that Sydney-
siders get nowadays is the minimum
amount that somehow gets on the screen.
Amateurs had one or two shots at
keeping the living theatre’s flag flying in
1938, but even they are nothing to what
they were just a few years back, when
Duncan Macdougall had his basement
productions of Capek and O’Neill plays
and such offerings as “Green Pastures,”
and Doris Fitton was a regular producer
at the Savoy. Mostly the repertorians
have deserted drama in favor of adding
a bit more to the unholy welter of propa-
ganda.
f o one former confirmed deadhead an
evening of Chang at Newtown Majestic
was worth the whole year of such polemi-
cal drivelling, not only because Chang
is a topnotcher, but because the whole
show from the old-style cordiality at
the Iront of the house to the Chinese
porters lumping Chang’s paraphernalia—
was living theatre, and because there was
something gallant about Chang and his
troupe out there, putting up a rearguard
defence.
Australian Art.
In the judgment of that diligent stu-
dent of Australian painters and paint-
ings William Moore, the golden age of
landscape painting in this country was
that era, a full half-century ago, when
the disciples of the new-found gospel of
impressionism—Roberts, Streeton, Conder
and the others of what is now referred
to affectionately as “the Heidelberg
school” —were hard at work capturing
fugitive semblances.
The harvest of that allegedly palmy
period somehow doesn’t seem as impres-
sive to-day as it did as late as 15 years
ago—not as it is reflected in the N. S.
Wales Gallery, at any rate. In the 1892
Catalogue of the Gallery the Heidelberg
painters represented were Roberts,
Streeton, Llewellyn Jones and Charles
Conder, and it is no slight upon such
works as Streeton’s “Still Glides the
Stream,” Jones’s “Dry Season,” Tom
Roberts’s portraits in water-color and
Conder’s one sketch in the same medium
to say that they don’t exactly stand out
like Tritons among minnows in a collec-
tion that included Julian Ashton at his
most enterprising period and Lister
Lister when his brush dripped sunshine,
and in which the essential Australian
flavor was maintained by such painters of
characteristic scenes as A. H. Fullwood,
B. E. Minns and Frank Mahoney.
It must be conceded, however, that if
the first fruits of the impressionists were
not very impressive, looked at in the per-
spective of 50 years, Gerome’s dictum,
which they pasted on their banner
(“When you draw form is the important
thing ; but when you paint the first thing
to look for is the general impression of
color”) has influenced all the painters
who came after them. That influence
has been very salutary in one respect: it
has opened up a multitude of new paths,
and the sincerest Australian artists of
the intervening years have continued to
explore these instead of repeating for-
mulas, though the repetition of well-tried
recipes means slicker paintings and
quicker sales, and even artists must live.
Though a complaint emitted by Fred
McCubbin 45 years ago anent the “com-
monplaceness” of much of the work seen
in society shows and one-man exhibi-
tions can still be echoed, there doesn’t
seem to be much room for doubt that
Australian art to-day is at a considerably
higher level than it was even in Moore’s
“golden age.” Streeton, Longstaff, Julian
Ashton and Lister Lister are still alive
and painting, and though they may have
lost the glad confidence of morning
they’ve five decades more of experience
behind their brushes.
There is no figure comparable to Lam-
bert’s now in the arena, either in the
matter of versatility or tremendous sin-
cerity, but in landscape, at any rate, the
field has a variety it lacked in earlier
years. The rich, vigorous work of
Howard Ashton, the wonderfully able
limnings (albeit in a very restricted zone)
of Hans Heysen, the lively and com-
petent paintings of such followers of the
Streeton manner as Sydneysiders Jackson
and Johnson, and the quiet beauties
which are educed by Elioth Gruner and
Percy Lindsay—the last-named has never
yet been valued at anything near his
merit—can hold their own in any com-
pany.
This age also is enriched by the won-
derful color-sense of Syd Long, and by
the strong individuality of such painters
as water-colorist Maud Sherwood, and
such etchers as Tom Garrett. Max Mel-
drum also raises the level, and Roland
Wakelin, among the modernists, com-
mands respect.
Portraiture, as the annual groupings
lor the Archibald Prize demonstrate, is
flourishing as never before, and, though
Lambert is dead and Bunny is seldom
heard from, Norman Lindsay, at his
prime, is producing splendid figure-
paintings in oils and improving his tech-
nique every year.
Water-color painting is not being
neglected. Harold Herbert, of Mel-
bourne, though a shade on the pretty-
pretty side, and James Eldershaw, of
Hobart, keep this flag flying, and there are
some youngsters coming on, among them
Sydney’s Lance Solomon, who have
something new to say about Australian
light and weather.
Taken all in all there’s no need for
despondency nor for sighing for lost
golden ages.
A.B.C. and Serious Music.
A.B.C. manager Moses, in an end-of-
the-year statement, announced that the
Commission is “supporting 300 perman-
ent musicians,” including 45 orchestrians,
32 military bandsmen, 22 dance bands-
men, 16 choristers, three accompanists,
four conductors and five orchestrators
in N. S. Wales alone. He added that the
Commission, before spending any more
money on strengthening the “permanent
symphony orchestra,” would concentrate
on attempts to improve the “presentation
of programmes.”
About this time last year there was
talk of retaining a first-class English con-
ductor—Sargent was mentioned. But
though Sargent revisited Australia, he
was just one of the usual variegated pro-
cession. Percy Code, Georg Szell, from
Czechoslovakia, and Sir Granville Ban-
tock have had turns conducting the half-
permanent (there should be at least 88
instrumentalists in a symphony orchestra)
Sydney orchestra and the one-third or
one-quarter permanent Melbourne one.
f hough 1938 was a year rich in visit-
ing musical celebrities, the A.B.C.’s part
in it was much smaller than usual. Tib-
bett and Flagstad came here under other
auspices. The A.B.C.’s contribution, in
addition to the conductors mentioned,
consisted of tenor Tauber, girl violinist
Guila Bustabo, and the singers Borgioli
and Kipnis—very nice, but hardly front-
rank celebrities. So not a great deal was
done by the A.B.C. for the serious musi-
cal listener, and nothing worth while was
done to strengthen the general Australian
musical organisation.
It may be doubted whether brief visits
of celebrities from abroad are worth
what is paid for them even from the
point of view of what the Commission’s
manager calls “the important minority
mainly interested in serious orchestral
music.” To serious listeners it doesn t
matter whether a symphony programme
is broadcast from Sydney Town Hall or
comes off a good gramophone record.
A better programme, musically con-
sidered, could be made up of the Tos-
canini and Stokowski recordings than any
that has been given in Sydney or Mel-
bourne under A.B.C. auspices, because
Arturo and Leopold wave their batons
over orchestras that are permanent or-
ganisations.
If the A.B.C. isn’t going to help music
in Australia by building up permanent
orchestras it is neglecting at least 75 p.c.
of its opportunities in that respect.
THE FIGHT OF THE YEAR.
Untrumpeted and wholly unexpected,
it happened at the old Rushcutter Bay
address on the night the main bout was
between Fred Henneberry and Walter
Woods. That engagement was a nice
drawing-room party compared with it.
The Fight was a six-round prelim, be-
tween A 1 Walker (list. 61b.) and Jacky
Burns (ditto). At least, it was billed for
six rounds.
It began with Burns tearing wildly out
of his corner and landing a walloping
right on Walker’s jaw. Walker —prob-
ably the best of the up-and-coming
crowd —fought fiercely back. He has a
splendid right hand, and he used it with
staggering effect to Burns’s chin. They
locked in a rough clinch ; Joe Wallis tore
them apart; but the Fight was on now.
Forcing him aside, they fought past
the flabbergasted ref. to get at each
other. Toe to toe they exchanged a
heavy battering, Burns swinging his
punches, Walker hitting straight with
both hands in piston-rod action. Locked
into another violent grapple, Burns
brought a wild rabbit-killer down on
the back of Walker’s neck. It took
every ounce of force Joe could muster to
tear them apart, and before he could
remonstrate they were back into it.
Walker was plainly infuriated by the
neck blow. Usually a cool customer, he
threw every cautionary word he’d ever
heard to the winds, and struck out re-
gardless of aim or defence. But if he
was infuriated, Burns was berserk, fight-
ing mad. He repeatedly rabbited, and
Walker had an eye cut in savage grapple.
At the sight of blood the mob howled.
The fight became ferocious. It was two
stark men fighting to a finish.
At the bell Joe tore them apart, and
they were got back to their corners. The
brief interval was a buzz and chatter of
excitement. A yell went up as the second
round was signalled, and they rushed
out of their corners. It was on again—
even wilder. The ferocity awake in both
of them had them immune to punish-
ment. Blows that should have felled an
ox didn’t budge them an inch.
Whatever fury it was that inspired
Burns, Walker’s inspiration was clear
enough. It was the classic inspiration
°f revenge, with right well on his side.
He fought in that spirit. His was a
erce and savage and relentless attack,
• ut there was a brooding quality about
£ not pres^ nt ln Burns’s wild onslaught.
u° n • ot hIS
righting, Walker looked to be in com-
mand. He fought as if thinking that,
if he could hold that berserker off him
just far enough, his good right hand’d
knock him into bloody ruin. He’d won
nine out of every ten of his fights with
that right—all clean knockouts in the
second round. In the last fight before
be’d broken the good fist, but he
us . ed das determined that he’d stop
fbis berserker with it, if it meant smash-
*nf£l£or ? e f epS il n ...
ftwasn t to be. Getting into a violent
grapple ’ ® urn , s p P n^ d him a B ains t
„? peB j P f ipped , rope Wltb his
g . e „n » ,£ e , d bim th . ere ’ so that
“u'i Wallis s remaining strength
“ fn wTr at last,
|r! rijli led Walker the "inner, and left
„ w f sn . t over . Th broke and
j nto u aaain fiercer than
enough" vtofent fightTTavf' tc Mildly
excited crowd up on its feet bawling the
place'down. Burns unleashing a tornado of
swings and clouting wallops ; Walker on
his Jem Mace stance, hitting straight and
heavy with both hands; both parties
taking what was coming without flinching
The crowd’s exhortations rose to pam
demonium. Seconds crowded in and tore
their men apart, both of them mighty
unwilling. Walker, though submitting to
persuasion, indicated himself ready to
box on for the duration. Burns,
struggling violently, broke from his
henchmen at mid-ring and charged back,
Walker leapt to his feet, full of fight,
but one of his seconds jumped in front
of him, got a headlock on Burns and
flung that warrior to the canvas There
four of Burns’s bottleholders claimed
their man and dragged him fighting to
his corner. ugmuig 10


Tasmania
A yA/? M/KcU
UTMOST ENJOYMENT
AT LITTLE COST
Considering its many attractions, its bracing
climate, its excellent touring facilities Tas-
mania truly offers the utmost holiday advan-
tages at lowest expense.
The Tasmanian Govt. Tourist Dept., will
provide an itinerary to suit your holiday
period, whether short or lengthy. Call or
write now for booklets and sailing dates, etc.
Obtain details of
famous Colour Line
Tours at All-Inclusive
cost from your State
Capital and return.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT TOURIST DEPT.,
Sydney .. 4 Martin Place, c>pp. G.P.O.
Melbourne. .The Block, 286 Collins St.
Adelaide 12 Pirie St.
Brisbane
Perth ...
Hobart .
196 Adelaide St.
A.M.P. Building, William St.
Macquarie and Murray Sts.
Overseas visitors to '
LONDON
desiring hotel accommodation
are recommended to stay at
HOTEL
OREM CENTRAL
Marylebone Road, N.W.1
Cables: Cetitellare, London
or
HOTEL RUSSELL
Russell Square, W.C.1
These hotels have a high reputa-
tion for comfort and efficiency and
meet all modern requirements.
Bedroom, bath and breakfast
from 11/- per day.
Inclusive terms from 21/- per da Y*
Adjoining each hotel is an Under-
ground Station that links up with
all parts of London.
Tariffs can be had on application to:
The Bulletin, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The Christmas tree has been packed
away, its tinsel a little frayed and
dimmed, one of its branches a trifle bald
where it was caught by a candle un-
awares. Only the star, wedged at the
top, remains firm. A Hans Andersen
might derive some beautiful moral from
that. Like innumerable other families,
this one is busy separating its piles of gift
hankies and guest towels. This Letter
wins out with enough hankies to vanquish
three violent colds, and sufficient guest
towels to set up a Scout jamboree. Every
Christmas has its fashion in presents ;
1938’s seemed to be bottles of sherry,
peasant hankies for the head, and com-
pacts. Mrs. E. Wunderlich scored a nice
powder container —silver with bits of
Honolulu life enamelled on the lid.
“Though sunstruck now, the rain’s not
far behind,” was one woman’s happy
forethought when she sent smart, initialled
leather fobs to her friends. These are
fastened to rubber bands which will slip
over the umbrella handle. Inset at the
back is a glazed slip: “If found, return
to ” Then follow name, address and
telephone number of owner.
The city rushed up to the Mountains,
down the South Coast, swarmed to the
beaches. About 30,000 train passengers
left Central on the Saturday before Christ-
mas, and before noon on Boxing Day
another 12 or 13 thousand were off in
Mr. Hartigan’s coaches. The greatest
elbow-room at the Zoo was enjoyed by
the animals —9600 humans there. Bal-
moral, Bondi and Munly simply seethed
and frothed with the aquatic-minded. It
was a case of “sunny days are here
again” for the seaside shopkeeper.
And what about Randwick? Never
has summer meeting been more popular,
judging by the smiles of the crowds, the
in excelsis sunny-day frocking of the
women, and the bright eyes of Mrs.
Jimmy Bancks when her Esperanto
picked up the December Stakes for her.
A winner also was her wide, straight-
brimmed white panama hat.
John McKelvey’s lady was there, all
in white, as befitted the day, to see hus-
band’s Marengo come a close second in
the Summer Nursery Handicap. Later
on, Dr. Coppleson rushed up to St. Vin-
cent’s, where the surgeon knight is still
convalescing, with a press photograph of
the finish of the race. Rachel Joy Morton
who was, now Mrs. Colin Bell, was an-
other wearer of white ; her large hat was
what somebody calls a “five bobless
not a crown on it.
Veils, boleros, sandals and an outburst
of summer-sky blues were insistent. A
racegoer who held the gaze was Mrs. Sam
Hardy —small black-and-white checks her
choice. Mrs. Bennett, of Cooma, and
Mrs. Langford Gibson were two attrac-
tive women in white. Beige and navy
comprised Philippa Stephen’s color
scheme; navy and white were smart
on Barbara Knox. Mrs. Arthur
Whittingham, of Brisbane, wore cool
navy-and-white sheers. Mrs. E. J.
Watt, Miss Kate Egan and Mrs. Leon
Lyons spent a busy afternoon. Jean
Kennedv’s hat wore pastel-toned ostrich
tips. Mrs. Colin Galbraith, with sister
Mrs. Jimmy Bancks, wore navy and a
small flower-trimmed hat.
How many of the entertainers who
departed with sacks of Sydney’s gold
within the last few years have the
of singer Lotte Lehmann?
At Christmas time she sent out word for
chocolates and sweets to be distributed
among the children of a blind institution
which she had visited. For the old men
in the Salvation Army homes she ordered
tobacco ; and to a special ward at Rand-
wick, Lottie sent a cake. It was to weigh
151 b., be two-tiered, and iced and orna-
mented. Madeleine Clarke, who had been
associated with the singer’s tour of Aus-
tralia, carried out the Sydney commis-
sions, and saw that the icing of the cake
was pale blue. Lotte spent a whole after-
noon singing to these Diggers during her
season.
There was haggis abroad in the land,
and pipers skirled brawly through the last
hours of 1938. If you were listening-in,
and lots of people were, even those in the
wildest throes of a party, you heard the
King’s piper blaw in the New Year that
is dewy with hope and golden with
promise. So the old year passed, queer,
upsetting 1938 that yet has this to recom-
mend it —that most of us found we were
made of sterner stuff than we had im-
agined. World affairs had frightened us,
but fear had not left us abject. Up went
the rockets from Luna Park. Down they
came in rosy rain, like little golden
shrubs; luminously green they faded,
like some will-o’-the-wisp, into the night.
The showboat, fairylike with many
lights, glided over a harbor silvered by a
moon that every now and then slipped
behind filmy clouds. Just around from
Kirribilli Point the Yacht Club was flung
wide to the New Year.
Every ballroom, every restaurant in the
city was packed with revellers. The
White Heather Ball at David Jones’s was
in aid of the N.S.W. Institution for the
Deaf and Dumb and the Blind at Dar-
lington. Here a tall Highlander carrying
a haggis and preceded by a pipe band
paid tribute to the New Year. The
Empress ballroom, the Grace auditorium,
the Royal Sydney Golf Club and the
Royal Motor Yacht Club at Point Piper
were thronged with the blithe and free,
determined not to go home while there
was a shred of 1938 still on the horizon.
The members of the Russian Ballet made
merry with ordinary dancing on the stage
of the Royal. A fancy dress and masked
ball was June Williams’s bright idea of
tripping from the old year to the new.
Marjorie Hesse goes off to Eng-
land in the Romolo, modestly enough,
she says, for further study. The clever
little pianist commands admiration not
only for her musicianly qualities but for
her sturdy independence of spirit. Over
a period of several years she has steadily
saved for this venture. Now she has
achieved the desired sum, and she and her
mother will arrive in London by way of
Italy early in this almost-new 1939. Mar-
jorie has the honor to be the youngest
diplomee appointed as teacher on the
Conservatorium staff. Packed away some-
where in her bags are both teacher’s and
performer’s diplomas gained at the Con.
Last year she had three of her composi-
tions published by Augener in London.
She has twice toured Maoriland as an
A.B.C. artist, and under the same man-
agement she has toured Australia. She
comes from Brisbane. Peter Pan photo-
graph.
If you are going to visit the Scout
Jamboree camp at Bradfield you can
find it easily once you get to Lindfield
station. It is in the midst of acres of
bushland. Through the site the Lane
Cove River flows. The young army
proved adept at swinging the axe and
boiling billies. About 11,000 are under
canvas in this natural parkland. They
come from every part of Australia
and Maoriland, and there are represen-
tative groups from the U.S.A., Canada,
England, France, South Africa, Loyalty
Islands and other bits of the good earth.
The encampment of the Israelites after
they had been journeying in the desert
3>9\ years couldn’t have presented a much
more populous sight than did the Seventh
World Jamboree when Lord Gowrie
made his opening speech on Saturday.
The boys looked in great form (there’s
a company of doctors looking after the
internal plumbing); so did Lord Hamp-
ton, Chief Commissioner of Scouts and
representative of World Chief Scout
Baden-Powell, the pictorial Dr. de Mol-
nar, of Hungary, and W. W. Thayer, of
the U.S.A. Groups from Nauru and the
Loyalty Islands held all the interest of
those from unusual places. The Girl
Guides are having a finger in the pie, and
will give a demonstration at the jamboree
next Saturday, and on that day Lady
Wakehurst will attend an official
luncheon at the camp.
Before his tent the lone representative
from Ceylon (who wraps his pack in a
leopard skin) has outlined in white stone
the traditional elephant. The design is
thrown into relief by a border of red
stone. Two posts rich with Maori carv-
ings mark the gateway to the Enzedders’
section. Their camp is surrounded with
a Maori palisade done in thin saplings.
Gordon 2 got their gate headpiece out
of the bush. It is the skeleton of the
rump of a horse. With ja few touches
it makes a grotesque head, like some pre-
historic monster. A group of Islanders
has built a house like an Eskimo
home —only of straw. The tower of
the old Milson Point station, the Har-
bor Bridge and Murrumbidgee spelt in
oranges on a wool background figure in
some of the many striking entrance ways.
When Sir Henry and Lady Morris-
Jones were here during our sesquicen-
tenary celebrations (he was a distin-
guished Parliamentary visitor) they liked
the country, they liked us, and they said
they’d come back. As good as vheir
word, they are now on their return
voyage. A greeting from Lady Morris-
Jones from Latchford Lodge, their Hert-
fordshire home, includes a happy note:
“I am thrilled. Leaving (D.V.) on Decem-
ber 17 for your lovely country and N.Z.
Desperately busy preparing for departure.”
Strangely enough, the world first night
of “The Prodigal Son” did not draw a
packed Royal. Many circle first-nighters
are away holidaying, and empty seats met
the gaze. But the gallery sounded packed
to the back teeth if the applause at the
end of the Lichine masterpiece was any
proof. It sounded rather like a stam-
pede. The house went a little crazy, and
the curtain went down, up, down, up in-
numerable times while Dolin garnered
laurel wreaths by the bushel. Everybody
was clapped—Dorati, Lichine, Tamara
Grigorieva. She had danced the siren
in red and gold—very dashing. There is
no superfluity (and that’s not a crack at
the garbing) about this ballet. Its actions
are clean-cut as ip an Egyptian .frieze.
Speaking as a writer, it was a perfectly
sub-edited ballet.
Striking in cut and color was Nan
Garvan’s cape, rich wine its shade. Mrs.
Roy Buckland brought a tall son. The
Larry Adlers were there. Her frock was
silver-and-gold brocade; her hair was
brushed up into curls. Mrs. C. R. Blom-
field was striking with her smooth hair,
black frocking and earrings. Earrings
jangled almost against the collarbone
of many women. The Harry Budge
family was there, the lady’s laces palest
pink. Ruth Bedford was with sister
Alfreda and a group of friends, among
them Miss Gabrielle Brenan, of Bowral,
just back after long travels, her frock
boldly striped in black and white.
The Scouts weren’t allowed to march
through the city without a cheer —in fact,
the streets were crowded with cheerers.
Two small boys who stood near this
Letter excitedly waved flags daddy had
just purchased. These seemed to have
been struck to commemorate the opening
of the bridge, so it just shows that if you
keep flags long enough they’ll be worth
something in the end. There were excited
“There’s our Bill!” “Look, there’s
Jimmy! ” One small girl gave an unsoli-
cited testimonial to press photographers
by pointing out all the importants, ex-
plaining that she knew them from their
pictures in the papers. In Martin-place
there was a sea of onlookers. Against
the Cenotaph burned the Hungarian
colors on Friday. They were on the
wreath from Hungary, placed in posi-
tion by Dr. de Molnar.
Austinmer and Thirroul deserve their
great popularity with holiday visitors.
They caught the holiday spirit, and every
attraction was “spruiced up.” The pic-
ture-show screened current city releases ;
special scenic tours, dances and all
manner of attractions were arranged
daily. Sunday night being usually dull,
the surf club arranged and amplified
open-air concerts from their beach club-
room. Programmes of songs, with
mouth-organ, piano-accordion, orchestral
and pianoforte items, were well above
average merit. Besides staging a car-
nival the lifesavers distributed gratis a
16-page guidebook for visitors. Residents
also entertained for three days parties
of visiting Scouts, including a group from
Noumea. The lads saw all the sights
as far south as Port Kembla.
When “Mr. Chedworth Steps Out”
early in the New Year he will introduce
to the world Sydney girl Jean Hatton.
This talented 16-year-old is still a sing-
ing student at the Conservatorium, and in
this new Cinesound production she will
warble “Lo, Here the Gentle Lark,” with
flute obbligato, as well as some last-
minute overseas songs. Jean’s aim is the
Metropolitan Opera House, New York.
Fotofilm Studio picture.
If ballet first nights have proved any-
thing it is that Sydney is just the right
size for a city. The circle and stalls seem
to hold everybody you know or have
ever heard of. There they were to see
the lush and roseate plumes of the
heralds in Fokine’s “Cendrillon” (“Cin-
derella” to us in our beginning days), the
grotesque junketings of the ugly sisters,
the glitter of the good fairy, the grace
of the prince. There were those writers
of good poetry Dorothea Mackellar and
Ruth Bedford.
There was Griiner, whose paintings
bring repose and peace to the heart. The
Bertie Kellys, good friends to all the
arts, had son Carleton and his affianced
with them. Mrs. Erik Fischer had grace-
ful ballet dancers embroidered on her
black cape. In the second or third row
of the circle sat Mrs. Venour Nathan,
her son and daughter with her. There
was sculptor Theo Cowan. Lots of
schoolgirls with mothers and fathers at
this, first night. Tall Nancy Baume was
with her mother. Smiling at the back of
the circle were Claude Kingston and
E. J. Tait. Down in the box to the right
sat Mrs. Tait with the Neil Storakers.
Mrs. Antal Dorati’s ivory and pale
blue frock was dainty enough for a
bit of ballet coloring. Arnold Haskell,
Mrs. Gordon Russell and Brian Cannell
were others.


\
CO
*
/
L
\
His familiar Brisk Stride
j
ĵ
can be Yours!
Promise yourself a pleasant evening and a
brisk stride the next morning. At the club
or hotel ask for Johnnie Walker by name —
and keep to it. When entertaining at home,
see that the famous square bottle is on the
table. It is not only that you will enjoy
your evening more because you enjoy
Johnnie Walker more. The distinctively
clean and refreshing taste of Johnnie
Walker gives you definite evidence of the
purity and age of the fine whiskies from
which it is so skilfully blended. And so,
next morning, you will be glad that you
kept to Johnnie Walker.
<JRHNNIE
WAhKER
Bom 1820 - Still going Strong
JOHN WALKER & SONS, LTD., LONDON, KILMARNOCK, SYDNEY.
JW. 92. B.


BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE BANGEB SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you that
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
sons should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting. The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist for DOAN b
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used suc-
cessfully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will
help flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes.
So be sure you get DOAN'S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
Personal and Missing Friends.
William Gearon.
WILL any person knowing anything of the
whereabouts of WILLIAM GEARON, for-
merly of Mauku, and later of Taranaki and
Christchurch, in New Zealand, who was last
heard of in the vicinity of Christchurch in
1904, when he was 31 years of age and a
shearer by occupation, and who then expressed
an intention of going to Australia, or any
person knowing whether the said William
Gearon had any issue, and, if so, the where-
abouts of such issue, please supply such infor-
mation to the undersigned, who wish to com-
municate with the said William Gearon or his
issue upon matters to their advantage? The
information should be supplied by not later than
the 28th day of February, 1939.
STEWART, JOHNSTON, HOUGH &
CAMPBELL,
Solicitors, Box 88, Auckland, New Zealand.
Legal Notice.
ELVINA EMILY IRENE GREG, deceased.
PERSONS claiming to be next-of-kin to
ELVINA EMILY IRENE GREG, late of The-
barton, South Australia, Widow, deceased,
who was a daughter of William Ormsby Irwin,
of North Richmond, New South Wales, Car-
penter, and who died at Adelaide on the 4th
day of October, 1937, please communicate with
the undersigned or with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, Adelaide. It is believed that the late Mrs.
Greg had relatives named Skuthorp.
SCAMMELL, HARDY & SKIPPER,
Selborne Chambers, Pirie Street, Adelaide,
Solicitors for the Public Trustee.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 903 of 1938.
BETWEEN CLAIRE LILLIAN THOMSON
Petitioner
And CLIVE EDWARD THOMSON Re-
spondent.
TO CLIVE EDWARD THOMSON late of
Waukivory Gloucester in the State of
New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that this Honorable Court
on the Twenty-seventh day of October last
past made an order nisi calling upon you as
an infant Respondent to appear by guardian to
the petition filed herein after service on you
of a copy of the said order AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance by guardian within twenty-one days
from the date of the publication of this notice
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited the Petitioner may assign
John Doe for your guardian and enter a
common appearance for you the Respondent
after the said order has been made absolute.
A copy of the said order may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
BRAYE, CRAGG & COHEN, Solicitors for
Petitioner, Bolton Street. Newcastle; by
BRAYE & MALCOMSON, Solicitors, 92
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The infant 1939 had nothing to com-
plain of about its welcome, its birth being
celebrated with corkscrews and bottle-
openers, with bacon and eggs, hot dogs
and hot soup, the Lambeth Walk and
“Auld Lang Syne,” white ties and boiled
shirts for breakfast and headaches and
aspirins round about lunch-time. In
spite of the slug round the young year’s
neck in the shape of “Time, gentlemen,
please!” at midnight, and the threat of
gaol or a knock to the chequebook, penalty
for those caught with even a half-filled
glass on Sunday a.m., everybody man-
aged to have a good time. City hotels
put on dinner-dances, as did country and
seaside hostelries, and thousands of
campers and caravaneers turned on their
radios and their gramophones while
cracking the claws of the midnight
lobster.
One country barn party borrowed its
New Year decor from Cecil Beaton, who
celebrated the publication of his new
book, Cecil Beaton’s New York, with a
party at Batsford’s a couple of months
ago. The decorations at the lavish Beaton
party were the host’s own idea and hand-
work, splashes of colored ink on strips
of paper hung round the room. For
variety the Australian imitators added a
pot or two of paint, and threw in some
brushwork here and there on their rolls
of brown paper, the strips of which they
stuck together with glue. They did their
ladder-climbing and liquid-throwing in
secret, so that the old shed’s unexpected
d.ts. were a surprise for everybody, and
gave the evening a promising first act.
The “artists” sent no clothes to be cleaned
as a result of their handwork, but de-
manded turps, pumice, the strongest kind
of soap and the bathroom to themselves
for a couple of hours.
The water shortage is being felt by
holiday-makers, owners and tenants of
houses, proprietors of hotels and
hostelries, and the campers are finding
the pinch of dry creekbeds and springs
that are sought after by many others
living under canvas. This season the
surf at Point Leo, which was only “dis-
covered” during the last few years, was
a seething mass of humanity throughout
the holidays. The bay beaches were
crowded all the way down to Dromana,
and Lome had a larger quota of visitors
than before. One hot holiday Mrs.
Frankel Cohen, with Val and Yvonne
and a carload of friends, went off in
search of something really quiet, with
Portarlington at the back of their minds’
eye. But others had thought the same
thing. The Cohens didn’t like what was
left of the space for grilling their chops,
so wandered on to St. Leonard’s, which
somehow had been forgotten by the mill-
ing herd, and gave themselves a perfect
day with room to breathe and swim and
follow up the fishing boats and to see
the separation of small sharks and sting-
rays from an appetising catch of pike.
They were able to buy enough of these
long slinky delicacies for several meals
and several friends invited to share them.
Last week the bare knees of Scouts
brought back reminders of open-air holi-
days to Melbourne’s desk-bound popu-
lation when out foraging, a midday sand-
wich and a glass of tomato juice, a
chaser for the alcohol of Christmas.
The lads were in town for a day
or two before setting out for N. S. Wales
and their jamboree at Bradfield, the
largest such rally since that held at Frank-
ston during the centenary. Among those
who went off jamboreeing was one of
our keenest Scouts, Colonel Harold
Cohen. He is off to England as soon as
the camp is over (he fixed his departure
to fit it in), but won’t be away long.
After a few days in London and a couple
of weeks in Oxford, where the attraction
is daughter Barbara, otherwise Mrs. Falk,
he will collect his wife, who has been
staying with Dr. and Mrs. Falk, and set
off for home again.
Guiders and Guides as well as Scouts
are interested in the jamboree. One sup-
porter of the gathering who fixed her
holidays to coincide with it is Jess Boyes,
who is a masseuse at the Launceston
Hospital, and whose home is on the Esk
River at Longford. She was in Mel-
bourne for only a day on her way
through to Sydney.
In the Athol Shmith photograph is
Cecily Timmins, recently returned from
a holiday at Shillong, in the hills of
Assam, where she stayed with Captain
and Mrs. H. W. Houghton, now in Mel-
bourne on leave. Cec found these hills
much to her liking, for because of the
altitude the climate was good, and the
picturesque jungle was full of orchids and
monkeys. Among other attractions were
a fine golf course, swimming and fishing
picnics and some riding over mountain
tracks. She and Mrs. Houghton, Mary
Lindsay Smith that was, have been
friends since their deb. and undergrad,
days, when they were at the University,
where Cec pursued science, afterwards
doing some post-graduate work at the
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, while
Mary completed an arts degree and took
part in Students’ Representative Council
and University Union activities. Cec is
the eldest daughter of the W. N. Timmins
couple, who this week farewelled their
second daughter, Ruth, off to England
with her husband, Lieut.-Commander
Alan McNicoll.
For the last few summers men have
looked upon girl bathers’ Hawaiian love-
flower suits with interest and approba-
tion, while all the time the charms of
the South Seas were insidiously getting
under the male skins, so that this year
some of the lads with advanced ideas on
the back beaches at Portsea and Sorrento
are colorful as a flock of parakeets swing-
ing on a jungle vine. Their brief trunks
are riotous with clematis and frangipanni,
hibiscus and oleander, poinsettia, vam-
pire orchids and vampire fish. Such
paradise-island patternings look best on
those of Polynesian set-up, with browned
torsos and hairless chests. The girls are
one and all approving of male co-opera-
tion in perking up the look of the
beaches, but some of the men themselves
are withering in their scorn, and small
boys with large ginger freckles and
raggedy holes in their skinny little bath-
ing suits (handed down from generations
of elder brothers) say cheeky things from
a safe distance about the newcomers. So
far these have appeared only on the
beaches favored by the socially eminent
and wealthy. It would take a brave man
(or one still filled with the bravado of
Christmas spirit) to introduce a girdle
of flowers to St. Kilda on a hot Sunday
afternoon.
Beach fashions grow gayer but also
more comfortable. Sandals with their
ornamental slits and cut-outs let the sand
slide out as fast as it gets in, and their
thick cork soles are a protection from
hot pavements. The girls who find that
woollen suits prickle their skin can buy
linen suits or run up successful little
models for themselves out of a yard of
cotton material on mother’s sewing-
machine in a couple of hours, all for a
couple of shillings. Stocking bills are cut
down through sandpaper mitts, enemies
of hairy calves and shins, and the girl
who feels herself a nudist in a white
skin that burns and blisters but won’t
go brown turns herself into a toothsome
hula-hula maid with qny of several
brands of liquid stain invented for the
purpose.
When dark glasses were popularised
just in time for the present genera-
tion to wear them with paddling rompers
everybody wondered why they hadn’t
been invented before. Now the flyveil
is making its appearance, and the bush-
men and the campers sinking their New
Year pots of beer are wondering why
the fashionable holiday folk took so long
to recognise a good thing when they saw
one. At Portsea Lorna Horsfall went
to ankle-length with her fly-protector.
She made it herself out of fishing-net
into a long cape trimmed with bobbing
corks for decoration and for buttons.
Inside it she’s protected from the flies
but not from the sun, which can go on
doing its worthy work painting her skin
a still deeper brown.
An engagement of inter-State interest
announced in Perth on New Year’s Day
was that of Mary Forrest and Noel
Hampshire. Mary, who is the eldest of
the John Forrests’ four daughters, has
plenty of relations, including 144 cousins
and several early pioneers twined among
the roots of the family tree. Her father,
who is the vice-president of the W.A.
Turf Club, owns a station on the Gas-
coyne, but Mrs. Forrest and the girls
spend most of the year in their Mount-
street home. Noel, who is the eldest
son of Mr. and Mrs. P. G. Hampshire,
of Perth, has made a reputation for
himself in half a dozen branches of
sport, and recently earned the right to
attach to his signature A.A.C.I. (Asso-
ciate of the Australian Chemical Insti-
tute). He’s a chemist with Common-
wealth Fertilisers and Chemicals, Ltd., and
was transferred to Melbourne six months
ago. The young couple will live in
Melbourne after their wedding, which
will take place in Perth about the middle
of the year.
Among other engagement spotlights
are those focused upon Eudora Wreford,
daughter of the late Ernest Wreford and
of Mrs. Seymour Larkan, of Stawell, and
James Hyde, of Essendon ; upon vigor-
ous young tennis player Youtha Thie-
meyer and Allen Stewart Halliday
(Youtha’s twenty-first birthday party was
also her engagement party) ; and upon
Bea Hart, daughter of the Arthur Harts,
and Ray Troedel.
Christmas and New Year greetings
came fast on engagement felicitations for
Dot Stevenson (Broothorn photograph)
and John Victor Waddell, third son of
Mrs. W. H. Waddell, of Deepdene-road,
Balwyn. Dot, who is the younger daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Stevenson, of
Hawthorn, was a popular member of
the women’s tennis team which returned
from abroad a few weeks ago.
Yvonne Richardson and Eve Raskine
motored over to Adelaide for Christmas
in Eve’s brand-new car, with which she
got acquainted on the way, it being her
first experience of driving on her own
wheel-power after getting her license.
They stayed at the South Australia, and
Yvonne rallied the troops and a few
of her old friends to a Christmas party
at the Blue Grotto. This week the pair
are again taking the open road for
Canberra and the social gatherings held
in connection with the Science Congress.
Dorothy Dunckley, who toured ML.
with “Balalaika,” is back in Melbourne
after three not quite uneventful weeks in
Sydney. The co. disembarked from Auck-
land on a Sunday morning, when its mem-
bers hiked around the streets looking for
“digs.” Miss Dunckley found a bachelor
flat in Potts Point, soon got her things
out of store and advertised some pieces
of antique silver which she had decided
to sell. In her hurry to be ready for the
dealers, who arrived early one morning,
she knocked her head on a rubbish chute,
broke a bloodvessel and collected a
purple tennis ball over one eye which
the first dealer bandaged with pennies
wrapped under lint. The next event was
an unwelcome visitor which walked out
of the antique silver’s wrapping paper
and started to climb the wall, with the
result that the flat had to be fumigated
and its rightful tenant and her black eye
were homeless for some 24 hours.
Thenceforward everything was peace-
ful until Miss Dunckley’s last night in
Sydney, when she was wakened from a
sound sleep to find smoke pouring
through her window and the street full
of hoses and firemen. She jumped out of
bed (hardly perturbed, for practically all
her luggage had already been taken away
by the carriers), and sailed down the stairs
in a variety of clothes, including a black
street frock over a much longer white
petticoat flounced in real guipure lace, a
saucy Paris hat trimmed with much white
veil, a feather boa, a hatbox on one arm
and a parasol on the other, to stage a
well-timed entrance in the lobby popu-
lated by several people in pyjamas. From
then onwards it was the petticoat and
not the fire (in another building and well
under control) which banished sleep from
the eyes of the other tenants.
“I Married an Angel,” unsuccessful
through a three and a half weeks’ season
owing to unsatisfactory opening per-
formances, was superseded on the stage
of His Majesty’s on Boxing Day by
panto. “Jack and the Beanstalk,” played
by the “Angel” people. On Christmas
Eve “Hollywood Hotel” opened at
the Princess, and the Apollo had its first
night of “It’s You I Love,” a comedy
produced by Brett Randall and Hal
Percy, who are hoping that there is room
for a season of such plays. On Boxing
Day a revival commenced of Gregan
McMahon’s “Whiteoaks” at the Comedy.
“The Women” is still getting a good
break at the King’s, and the Apollo has
an afternoon entertainment for children,
“The Old Woman Who Lived in a
Shoe.” Most of the eight o’clock shows
put on matinees three days running
straight after Christmas, and another
holiday matinee happened on Jan. 2, so
those in the casts were busy. With four
legit, shows all on at once it looked like
a comeback to the good old days.


AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin ” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
to
New Guinea
& Papua
At your request we shall
be pleased to forward
Folder No. 99.
Five weeks' tour of the South Sea Islands
crowded with a succession of pic-
turesque vistas, novel and amusing
incidents and the delights of a sea
voyage under the best conditions.
Numerous ports, with their coral lagoons,
palm-fringed beaches, quaint villages
and colourful native life, offer a never-
ending source of interest.
There are no hotel expenses—you live
on the vessel throughout. Fares are free
of exchange.
BURNS, PHILP & CO. LTD.
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY Telephone: 87901
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Christmas—Two Versions
“J. Want”: The tendency of metro-
politan newspapers to forget that the
capital isn’t the State was marked in Bris-
bane “Courier-Mail’s” reporting of the
festive season:
Salt and watermelons—taken in separate
quantities—seem to be the formula for
Queensland, home of the sun-worshipper,
on Christmas Day.... There were thou-
sands of surfers on the beaches and thou-
sands of watermelons on the roads.
But outback it was the Christmas that
the outback has always known, with a few
palliatives for the towns which modern
invention has made possible and a few
worse-than-normal trials for smaller and
remoter settlers and travellers.
Christmas weather on the Mitchell-
grass plains and over the Selwyns ran
true to form. Temperatures ranged from
102 near the Dividing Range to 116 at
Mt, Isa. But Mt. Isa has a well-built
town and a bar which, at a pinch, can
hold 450, and its men are on regular
wages.
In other places small graziers and selec-
tors spent Christmas Day trying to
remember what a sheep and a blade of
grass looked like. And there were the
usual flies, sandy blight, duff made in
Georgina duststorms, beer and afternoon
sleeps under a tree.
Time brings its changes, however. Once
in a thousand lonely camps on Christmas
nights they used to sing “The Miner’s
Dream of Home,” “Bold Jack Donohue,”
“Wrap Me Up in My Stockwhip and
Blanket” and a dozen others. But the piece
de resistance, in pub and quarters, was
that favorite old recitation which exactly
described the reaction of the native philo-
sopher to the stock features of inland
Christmas—“The Bushman’s Farewell,”
almost forgotten now, but worth resur-
recting. Here is one version:
It was somehow made to sound patri-
otic, and always was followed with loud
and cheerful applause, since everybody
took as much pride in the hardships of
the Queensland outback summer as any
Mt. Everest climber in his vicissitudes.
You could easily buy a fight by depre-
cating the heat and suffering of Boulia.
And the loyal Kyabran would be quite
ready to plug the Boulian who pooh-
poohed the horrors of Cooper’s Creek
blight.
These days the radio oozes “Ma
Sweetie’s Left Me” on many a station
where there are ice and electric light.
The modern Christmas may be an im-
provement ; but I know one Queens-
lander, handy to both beaches and water-
melons, who would this year have given
a bit to be ten again. Ten, and lying full
of scrub turkey and duff under a bough
shade, with the melodious lu-lus of happy
blacks drifting across the remains of the
billabong and the tonk of a horse-bell
slapping through the molten shimmer of
the air every time the crows woke the old
mare under the blackbutt.
“Gain”: They do themselves large and
handsome on New Guinea goldfields
when it comes to holidays. On the Sepik
time-off for claim-holders is November
30 to February 1 ; on Morobe, December
15 to January 10; at Kupei, December
10 to January 19. Persons who think it
will take longer to work off the effects
of Christmas dinner and New Year’s Eve
are invited to apply specially to the
warden.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Native crime isn’t decreasing
in New Guinea. One Court early in
December convicted a boy of murder at
Rangiet—he got seven years. Another
was given nine months and 12 strokes for
indecent assault. One culprit earned four
years for rape, another five years for
“A plain bush wife Wasn't good enough for HIM!”
attempted rape; each with 12 strokes of
the cat for good measure. Five more
went in for crimes ranging from con-
spiracy to breaking and entering. In all,
10 out of 11 were convicted and received
25 years and nine months’ gaol and 36
strokes among them. The civilising influ-
ence of the League policy seems to be —
well, not so civilising as it might be.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The Larrakia is off on a pil-
grimage to the ancient N.T. settlements
of Fort Dundas (Melville Island) and
Port Essington. A military officer on
board will collect relic-building material
and fashion a memorial to the pioneer
settlers of the north. Essington was
founded in 1828, and garrisoned with a
detachment of the 57th Regiment. Aban-
doned, it was recolonised in 1839, when
there was a French annexation scare.
There is a good novel for somebody in
the story of its 11 years of stern exist-
ence. Fort Dundas had a much briefer
life in 1824-28.
* * * *
“Ingiet”: Hot Noos from the Stoodios
is nothing to the news that a Yankee
press syndicate has gleaned in a place
called “Port Moresbay, Papua, New
Guinea”: “Soccer Deadlier than War
Played in New Guinea —Knives, Broken
Bottles and Clubs Supplement Ball.” The
correspondent has learned that the feral
game may be forbidden, since the death-
rate among natives is higher than in the
old tribal wars; also that, when the
coppers ordered an impromptu strip-
tease act by teams in a match at Rabaul,
they found seven players with knives, 17
with broken bottles, nine with razor
blades and some others with stone club-
heads, six-inch nails and short hardwood
sticks with sharpened points. The report
does not mention whether the players
were allowed caddies or whether they
carried their own weapons. Reminds me
of the methods of Quartpot, a humble
Kamilroi Oldfield of my boyhood, who
used to supplement the skill of a pair of
small, prehensile abo. hands, far quicker
than the eye, with a well-chosen insec-
tary carried in a matchbox. I can assure
doubters that a timely couple of lively
greenhead ants deftly sprinkled on the
back of a batsman’s neck are an immense
help to any wicketkeeper.
* * * *
“Terrod”: Darwin is to have its face
lifted “picturesque avenues.... exotic
red poinciana trees graceful coconut
palms... .unforgettable impression of
genuine tropical color.” In three years
Administrator Abbott hopes to make it
“the garden city of North Australia.”
Sounds to me like a little Canberra. But
there remains, as a gentle reminder, a
£900,000 meatworks, rotting because of
labor troubles and because the enter-
prise “did not receive that assistance and
co-operation from the Administration
which was its due.”
“P.”: A party of five travelling from
Port Augusta to Alice Springs were
caught in sand at the Lambina Crossing
on a Saturday afternoon. Further sand-
hills and sandy creekbeds delayed them
until Tuesday morning, when three of
the party went ahead to search for
water. One, a 14-year-old boy, left the
others, and returned three hours later, to
collapse and die from exhaustion. Only
the timely arrival of a south-bound car
saved his mates from a similar fate. The
old safeguard of advising towns further
along the line of approaching travellers
is still a sound and very wise precaution.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Brisbane is not to have its
zoo yet—the best it has ever been able
to do has been to coop a few wretched
wallabies and their relations in a kind
of fowl pen in the Botanical Gardens;
but Lud Mayor Jones thinks that some-
thing may be done next year. Judging
by the experience of other zoos, particu-
larly Sydney’s, the proposition should be
one to help keep the now loudly-howling
financial wolves from the Greater Bris-
bane Council’s door.
* * * +
“Scat”: The summary and analysis of
vital statistics for N.Q. (B. 28 /12 / ’3B) are
interesting, but more so when N.T. figures
are compared (1936-37). Last year’s
Federal election returns gave the electoral
population of the Territory as 846 women
and 2340 men. The white birthrate was
17 per 1000, or 1.3 above that of Bris-
bane ; the deathrate was 8.5 —2.4 below'
that of Bananaland’s capital. Though
climatically similar, N.T. differs from
tropical Queensland in having no indus-
trial development like that of Mt. Isa nor
corresponding amenities.
* * * *
“Dickie Beech”: Mackerel are in S.Q.
waters unusually early this season, and
in unusual numbers. Last year was a
slump season. By mackerel I mean the
101 b. to 401 b. barred or spotted Spanish
mackerel, with occasional cousins from
the north to 701 b. or over. They are close
relatives of swordfish and tunny, doughty
fighters all. Catching them for market
is an off-shore business, up to 20 miles
or more out, towed baits —garfish are
best—two on spreader-booms out from
each beam and two from the counter be-
tween, of judgment
for length of line
and leads for depth,
of quick work when
the fish take —and of
weather. Markets
are always there for
all the mackerel
available; yet 20
years ago they were
regarded as poor-
grade fish, such are
the mutations in
public taste. A few
years hence the cry
will all be for the
tunny, now regarded
as valueless except
for fowl-food and
not worth a fisher-
man’s while to
bring in.
“Kaloa”: Those who know cannot
repress a quiet grin over a world-wide
argument which is going on about how
the Germans squeezed their unfortunate
native colonists in the bad old days be-
fore T 4. Somebody in Geneva held up
his hands in horror at the thought that
Fritz paid his West African workers
10 marks a month. Berlin weighed in
with the retort that native laborers in the
S’African Union get only 12s. a month.
A Queenslander then became shocked
that in pre-war days Samoans received
12s. a month and rations from the Ger-
mans. And no doubt there will now be
another howl from somewhere near Unter
den Linden at the fact that a skinflint
Australian mandatory starts its boys off
at 6s. a month and allows them to rise
to 15s. and £1 a month only when they
have grown brass knobs on themselves
and learned to drink whisky like a
Kentucky squire.
Queensland, thou art a land of pests,
For flies and fleas one never rests.
Mosquitoes always round us revel,
And sandflies are the very devil.
At dawn, when you put on your pants,
You find them full of bulldog ants;
At eve, you take them off to feed
The greenhead and the centipede.
The howling dingo roams your night;
You’ve Barcoo rot and sandy blight.
Ten million serpents have their lair
In lignum, burr and prickly pear.
My blistered country ere I go—
Land of the mortgage, goat and crow—
I bid thee now a long farewell
Thou sunbaked, drought-struck land of
hell.


Coil. |
Primary.
Secondary.
Serial
>50*1500k c
375 turns 40 S.W.G. S.S.E.,
with one turn over hot end
of secondary.
120 turns 5/44 Litz in three equal
sections.
Aerial
<5-105 metres ..
55 turns 40 S.W.G. D.C.C., |
wound in one section fin. wide,
with one turn over hot end of
secondary.
20 turns 27 B. and S. cnam., close-
wound.
f
Aerial
i 6-51 metres
4.25 turns 34 B. and S. cnam.,
inlerwound from bottom of
secondary.
11.7 turns 27 B. and S. enam.,
wound in screw cuts, 16 l'.P.l.
Aerial
13-39 metres
3.2 turns 34 B. and S. cnam.,
interwound from bottom ol
secondary.
7.75 turns 22 B. and S. cnam.,
wound in screw cuts, 16 T.P.l.
R.F.
>50-1500kc
950 turns 40 S.W.G. S.S.E.,
with one turn over hot end of
secondary.
120 turns 5/44 Litz in three equal
sections.
R.F.
35-105 metres ..
110 turns 40 S.W.G. D.C.C.,
wound in one section |in. wide,
with one turn over hoi end of
secondary.
20 turns 27 B. and S. enam., close-
wound.
R.F.
16-51 metres
8.75 turns 34 B. ttnd S. enam..
interwound from bottom of
secondary.
11.45 turns 22 B. and S. cnam.,
wound in screw cuts, 16 TJPJL
R.F.
13*39 metres
6 turns 34 B. and S. cnam.,
interwound from bottom oi
secondary.
7.75 turns 22 B. and S. enam.,
wound in screw cuts, 16 T.P.l.
Oscillator
550-J500kc
10 turns 34 B. and S. enam.,
wound over bottom of
secondary.
100 turns 31 B. and S. cnam.,
dose Wound.
Oscillator
35-105 metres ..
8.5 turns 34 B. and S. enam.,
wound l-!6in. from cold end of
secondary.
18-25 turns 27 B. and S enam.,
closewound.
Oscillator
16-51 metres
I 4.5 turns 34 B. and S M cnam.,
| interwound from bottom of
secondary.
10.9 turns, 22 B. and S. enam.,
wound in screw cuts, 16 T.P.l.
Oscillator I 3.25 turns 34 B. and S. cnam..
13-39 metres .. .. interwound from bottom ol
secondary.
All coils ate wound on £in. diameter
7.5 turns 22 B. and S. enam.,
wound in screw cuts, 16 T.P.l.
bakelite former
Shield can dimensions .. .. 550-1500kc. |
35-105 metres > internal diameter of can 2{in.
16-51m. 1
13.39m. No Shield Con —Placed between gang switch
shield plates, which are apart.
Tuning condenser A: —10—390mmfd. \ s hclow
B:— 9—398mmfd. 1 bce no,e t ’ clow '
Padding condensers .. .. .. 550-1500kc.: — 410mmfd.
35-105m.: —2000mmfd.
16-5 Im.: —4000mmld.
13-39m.: —4500mmfd.
Max. effective stray capacitances •• A: —34mmfd.l including valve input, trimmer, wiring
B: —35mmfd. f and coil capacitances.
Intermediate frequency .. .. 465kc.
EMPIRE'S MILLIONS
S-T-R-E-T-C-H
YOUR MONEY
That’s why 6AIVI has its aerial
on top of the ranges—so that
its programmes will cover the
State —so that the advertiser’s
message will reach the maximum
number of listeners, and bring
maximum results.
6AM
St. George’s House,
St. George’s Terrace,
Perth,
Western Australia.
1
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 1321 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars ol
this amazing new treatment.
t.jones &. CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydney.
ĵ
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
6K8G Six-valve Dual-wave
Superhet.
' The 6KBG converter valve recently
introduced by A.W. Valve Co. has been
incorporated in a dual-wave superhet
described in Radiotronics No, 92. The
valve has made possible simple receivers
with extremely good performance, parti-
cularly on short waves. Special charac-
teristics are the stability of the oscillator
frequency on all bands and sensitivity
and general performance on the highest
frequencies of the short-wave band.
A.V.C. can be applied without frequency
drift due to fading, and flutter can be
eliminated.
High sensitivity is possible on the
broadcast band with valves of the 6A7
and 6ABG types, but when A.V.C. is
applied on the short-wave band it has
been necessary to use an expensive filter
in the anode-grid circuit in order to pre-
vent flutter. While this is reasonably
effective as an anti-flutter device, it does
not prevent the receiver coming off-tune
when the signal fades severely. This
effect is well known to all who handle
such receivers on short waves, and good
results can only be had by removing the
A.V.C. from the converter for short
waves. Stability of the 6KBG is such that
an R.F. stage is no longer essential in
this regard, since ample A.V.C. action
may be obtained on short waves by
applying the controlling voltage to the
grid of the converter.
The receiver described here uses a
Radiotron 6U7G as R.F. stage, since it
improves the performance of any re-
ceiver. A tuned R.F. amplifier ahead of
the converter reduces background noise,
gives improved image ratio and lessens
the liability to suffer from cross-modula-
tion. However, the receiver could be
built successfully without the R.F. stage.
No additional circuit diagram is shown
for this suggestion, but the parts to be
omitted are obvious.
Tuning Indicator.
A Magic Eye tuning indicator has been
included in the circuit for ease of tuning,
and may be either a 6U5 or 6G5 as de-
sired. The 6U5 is fitted with a space-
charge grid in the target section, which
provides better uniformity of perform-
ance and longer life. The newer types of
Radiotron 6G5 are also fitted with a
space-charge grid, and have more satis-
factory performance than the earlier
types. A resistor of 20,000 ohms has
been shown in the target circuit of the
tuning indicator, and is intended only for
use with the more modern type of tuning
indicator employing a space-charge grid.
Circuit Arrangement.
Screen supply for the 6U7G R.F.
amplifier is obtained from a 25,000-ohm
voltage divider having a tapping at 100
volts. This supplies R.F. and I.F. screens.
The 6KBG converter is operated with
normal voltages on all electrodes, and, as
recommended in the data, the screen grid
of the mixer and the oscillator plate are
supplied through a common 15,000-ohm
dropping resistor from B positive. Reason
for this arrangement is that there is a
slight frequency drift in one direction
with a change of voltage applied to the
oscillator plate, and in the reverse direc-
tion with the same change of voltage
applied to the mixer screen. By combin-
ing these two in a
common dropping
resistor the ten-
dency to drift is
very much re-
duced and very
closely ap-
proaches zero.
To make sure
that no flutter
occurs a com-
paratively small
1 filter employing
an Bmfd. electro-
lytic condenser is
connected from
the junction of
the 15,000-ohm
resistor and the
primary of the
oscillator coil to
earth.
The I.F. stage
uses a 6GBG duo-
diode super-con-
trol R.F. pentode,
the ampli fi e r
being employed in conventional fashion,
and the output from the plate circuit pass-
ing through the second I.F. transformer
to one of the diodes for detection. The
second diode is used for A.V.C., and the
exciting voltage is applied through a
o.ooolmfd. condenser from the plate of
the I.F. valve directly to the diode. The
cathode bias resistor of this stage carries
both R.F. and A.F. components and is
therefore by-passed by a O.lmfd. and a
25mfd. condenser in parallel.
The diode load resistor is 0.5 megohm,
and the R.F. filter consists of a 0.1
megohm resistor and the O.OOOlmfd. filter.
The audio system comprises a 6J7G
as a resistance-coupled pentode feeding
into the grid of a 6V6G beam tetrode
with negative feedback applied by the
series method. The cathode of the 6U5
is returned to a tapping on the 6V6G
cathode bias resistor in order that deflec-
tion of the tuning indicator may occur
with weak signals on short waves. Power
supply is a standard 385-385-volt lOOma.
transformer and SY3G rectifier, and the
filter system incorporates a 1600-ohm
field coil and condensers of Bmfd. and
16mfd. capacitance.
Coil Details.
Coils are of conventional pattern and
data are tabulated in full. The two coil
diagrams show R.F. and oscillator coils.
Oscillator coils for 13-39 and 16-51
metres are interwound, while those for
35-105 metres as well as those for the
broadcast band are close-wound solenoid
type. On the broadcast band the pri-
mary of the oscillator coil is wound over
the bottom end of the secondary winding.
The aerial and R.F. coils on the broad-
cast band employ high impedance
primaries and sectional Litz-wound
secondaries.
V.C.
Radio Comment.
“Sigs”: Ten utility trucks of 25-28 cwt.
capacity for carrying mobile wireless sets
are needed by the Australian Light Horse
for field manoeuvres. Owners of trucks
who volunteer to go into camp will be
paid 14s. a day for their trucks, with
sd. per mile allowance and Bs. per day
personal allowance. There is a comic-
opera atmosphere about this state of
affairs. Militia signal units in the second
district have for years been obliged to
rely on the enlistment of personnel with
trucks and motor-cycles for mobile wire-
less and D.R. operations. There is one
army-owned vehicle set aside for signals
in the form of a decrepit juggernaut
known to all and sundry as the “Gin-
Palace,” but with that it is a question
whether transport will let the W/T down
Winding Details.


"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year in
Australia, acceptable at “The Bulletin”
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
the following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from U.S.A.
Read “Radio” regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
radio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy!
"RADIO DIGEST”
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of "RADIO" ( U.S.A. ).
“RADIO DIGEST” has been produced
to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important
overseas radio journal, but “RADIO
DIGEST” provides a regular condensa-
tion of the world’s most important radio
publications.
Each month there is a wealth of inter-
esting technical and topical material such
as is only possible in a publication of
the nature of “RADIO DIGEST.” It
brings to you in condensed form the
most important developments in radio
from the world’s leading radio labora-
tories. Apart from the valuable tech-
nical nature of “RADIO DIGEST,” it
contains a large amount of topical
material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
DIGEST” now, 16/- per year, through
The Bulletin Office, 252 George Street,
Sydney.
tejfcutfetu z
LimericK
Competitions
For Each of These Competitions £5O in Prize-money
Eleventh Competition
£5O PRIZES
First Prize £2O
Second Prize £lO
Twenty Other Prizes £1
Closing Date January 18.
There is No Entrance Charge.
Add a last line to the Limerick on the space
provided for the purpose, cut out the whole
coupon, and post to reach
"Limericks No. 11”
Box 252188, G.P.0., Sydney,
not later than January 1 8.
Results of this Eleventh Limerick Competition
will be announced in “The Bulletin” of
January 25.
Any competitor may send in as many
entries as he or she wishes for this or succeed-
ing competitions, but each entry must be filled
in on a Limerick Coupon.
No employee of The Bulletin Newspaper Co.
Pty., Ltd., is eligible to compete. Otherwise
these competitions are open to all, free of
any entrance charge.
This announcement will be repeated in
“The Bulletin” of January 11, and coupons
may be filled in from any issue.
ELEVENTH LIMERICK COMPETITION
NAME
(In block letters)
ADDRESS
A militia recruit had a craze
For manoeuvring in curious Ways.
At “Form Fours!" shouted tartly,
He'd somersault smartly
Results, and New Competitions
Results of the Tenth Limerick Competition,
which closes to-day (January 4), will be
announced in next week’s “Bulletin”
(January 11). A new competition will be
announced in the same issue.
or vice versa. Mr. Hughes will need to
get something done about equipment.
* * * *
“Fios”: I recently asked an officer of
a militia signal unit how operations went
at a camp, and his retort was to the effect
that “wireless was a washout.” During
the exercise at Port Stephens (N.S.W.)
sets placed on the beach functioned, but
when used in or near scrub results were
poor. As an argument appeared likely
on W/T versus L/T I dropped the sub-
ject. The fact remains that W/T will
have extensive use in any future war —
it is getting it now in Spain and China.
W/T is undeniably speedier than line
or visual telegraphy, and hops over such
obstacles as hills and gullies w'ithout
any trouble according to choice of fre-
quency. Apart from the superiority of
W/T, used intelligently as a foremost
means of communication, there is to-day
a tendency to place too much reliance
on radio-telephony. Radio amateurs
have developed into mike-gossipers, and
the average militia sigs. officer, whilst
knowing something of the Morse code
at a painfully slow speed, makes more
use of R/T than should be the case.
First need of militia signals units is
first-class Morse operators, plus officers
with technical knowledge enough to
know that valves in transmitters and
receivers are not “lamps.”
Amateur Chatter.
One of the most interesting phases of
experimental radio is that of portable or
mobile work. Ross and Elgar Treharne,
VK2IQ and VK2AFQ respectively, are
particularly keen on such work, and dur-
ing the Christmas holidays enjoyed many
ethereal and personal contacts whilst on
a motor tour to S.A. The 7mc. band was
used mostly, and on the night of
26/12/’3B their ’phone signal from King-
ston (S.A.) was reaching Sydney in better
fashion than those of many fixed stations.
56mc. equipment was taken along also,
and contacts on this band were enjoyed
with many VK3’s and s’s. Such work as
this justifies the acquisition of a license
for portable work.
Sydney has little to report in the 56mc.
regions because of extensive aerial
damage to all metropolitan stations on
that stormy Saturday. Reconstruction is
the order of things.
From Prospect (S.A.) VKSZU refers to
recent happenings. Things looked bright
there for 56mc. DX on 20/10/38 when
VKs 3IW, 2GU and 2UD were heard
on 28mc. between 8.30 and 9.30 p.m.
VKSZU immediately went on the air on
56mc., but heard nothing. On 12/12/’3B
skip was again short on 28mc., and sta-
tions heard were VKs 2GU and 2VN.
At the same time local 14mc. harmonics
were exceptionally loud. One afternoon
a ’phone signal was heard at the L.F.
end of 56mc. This appeared to be a
VK4, but SZU considers it to be another
pirate complete with P.M.G. mike.
The VKS 56mc. field day was a great
success locally, stations on the air in-
cluding VKs SHD, SKL, SGY, SRJ, SBF,
SLX, SAF, SJT, SHM, SGB, SRT, SRQ
and SZU. SRJ and SGY were located
at South Hummocks, and both communi-
cated with SHD at Mt. Lofty summit, 80
miles distant. This kind of activity is
encouraging to VKs’s, and N.S.W. is
sadly lagging in such co-operation.
28mc. in Sydney is crammed with
strong American ’phones between 8 a.m.
and noon daily, and many American nine-
metre police stations can also be heard.
It is remarkable that so few VK2’s in the
metropolitan area use this band, when so
many 14mc. DX ’phone-chasers bemoan
the scarcity of “Yanks” on the band.
The explanation must lie with problems
of getting mediocre transmitters and re-
ceivers to “perk” at 28mc. Just below
the nine-metre police band, the Lorenz
u.-s.-w. beam at Kingsford Smith aero-
drome in Sydney can be heard with a
terrific signal at intervals.
On 7mc. DX conditions are attractive
in the evenings, and VK9’s in New Guinea
can be heard strongly on ’phone around
6 p.m. Sydney time. K6’s and Ws often
put stronger C.W. signals across on this
band than on 14mc. The 7mc. band is
still as useful as ever, but is unfortu-
nately the stamping ground of many
record-grinders. Glib talk about fre-
quency response is a poor excuse for the
interminable playing of recordings. Such
practice has no place in experimental
radio, and does not help in the official
attitude toward the amateur.
Speaking of ’phone, it wouldn’t be a
bad idea if stations using speech trans-
mission would always name the location
of the station with the callsign. Not all
amateurs possess up-to-date callsign lists.
Mention of the location would imme-
diately satisfy a natural curiosity and
save time in either looking up the loca-
tion or asking for it.
VK2NO.
Radio with the Archbold
Expedition.
The extent to which the Archbold
Expedition in Dutch New Guinea is rely-
ing on wireless was indicated by pilot
R. R. Rogers, of the expedition’s Con-
solidated PYB2 flying-boat, before leav-
ing Melbourne on the return trip to Port
Moresby.
The expedition is based at Humboldt
Bay, whence parties are sent out through
unknown country to collect insects,
mammals, plants and geological speci-
mens. An advance base is at Lake
Habbema, at an elevation of over 11,000
feet above sea level, in the vicinity of
Mount Wilhelmina.
The advance base and the land parties
are equipped with small wireless trans-
mitting and receiving sets to enable them
to keep in touch with each other and
with the main base. Much of this equip-
ment has been supplied by A.W.A., in-
cluding teleradio installations.
Petrol needed to provide power for the
teleradio equipment is dropped from the
flying boat in gallon tins attached to
parachutes.
Throughout the recent non-stop flight
from Moresby to Sydney, the flying boat
was in direct touch with the A.W.A. Port
Moresby radio station, Sydney radio
station, its own main base at Humboldt
Bay and also with San Francisco.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
1 have an Air zone vibrator portable receiver,
used with an indoor aerial, and wish to work
with an outside aerial. (1) Suitable length ?
(2) Height above ground? (3) Does length of
lead-in make any difference; if so, best length
to use? (4) Which is preferable, insulated or
plain wire? (5) The receiver is earthed to a
tin of soil standing alongside; would better
results be had by earthing direct to ground?
—743.
(1) About 60ft. overall, including lead-in. (2)
As high as possible. (3) The lead-in with the
usual aerial is part of the aerial itself, and this
length should be included in the 60ft. (4) Im-
material for general use, but insulated wire is
more convenient. (5) The “earth” now in use
is inefficient. Cut the top off a kerosene- or
petrol-tin and punch a few holes in the sides.
Fill the tin with ashes or coke and solder the
earth wire to the tin. Then bury the lot about
4ft. deep in the ground. If a length of water-
pipe is included standing upright in the tin and
projecting above ground, water can be poured
in to ensure moistening of the soil around the
tin.


/,
€
Out
SIZE 72x60'
Minerals for Drought Time!
The fodders available in drought time are
generally low in feeding value, and a liberal
use of Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is recommended.
This mineral supplement is of great assistance,
enabling stock to make the best use of poor,
coarse fodders.
Write to Davis Gelatine, Sydney,
for particulars about
TRI-CAL-OS BONE FLOUR
The Richardson Chain Hotel
m
m
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Railway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from. . 12/6
’Phone: M 4 14 1 (10 lines).
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep on Sorghum.
“Hortus”: Darling Downs experi-
ments go to prove that sorghum in the
right district can be a splendid sheep
feed.
The wool clip has improved in quality
and quantity. There has been no worm
trouble. Sheep on this feed drink little
water, even in a hot spell. No sheep
have been lost, and they have been fed
on sorghum in all stages of its second
growth, which is not poisonous.
Feed comes quickly in early spring. A
crop sown in January or February will
carry sheep right through the winter —
even better if frost comes before the seed
matures.
Soils too poor for the best growth of
maize will grow sorghum. It has a vigor-
ous root system, and so feeds on a larger
area of ground than maize.
Plough deeply, and work down well
with heavy harrows, with a shallow cross-
ploughing before sowing.
Keep surface loose (in dry districts) to
catch and conserve moisture. Best results
are obtained by drilling.
Four or five pounds per acre is a fair
average sowing away from the coast.
Feterita is an excellent sorghum to
tide over dry spells. Feterita must be
sown in warm soil to ensure good ger-
mination.
At the last Pittsworth (Q.) show the
prize-winning pen of 10 lambs for export
were fed on sorghum, as were also their
mothers. The lambs were weaned one
month before the show.
Worms and Weaners.
“Bungaree”: The advice of “S.J.” to
wean lambs on lucerne (B. 21/12/’3B)
needs qualification. Lucerne is useful in
dry weather. A lucerne paddock is
usually more heavily worm-infested than
ordinary pasture, and is more heavily
stocked. Weaners put into such a pad-
dock regardless will at best lose condi-
tion in spite of the better feed. At worst
they will die.
Where it is proposed to wean lambs on
lucerne, the paddock should first be
spelled for two to three months, and the
weaners drenched before being put into
it.
Remember that scouring is not always
a symptom of infestation by tricho-
strongyles.
Often sheep have been put on lucerne
heavily worm-infested and have died
while still in good condition, with no sign
of scouring.
This is particularly the case in M.L.,
where on the Canterbury Plains hogget
mortality sometimes reaches 25 p.c.
Worth a Trial?
“Splodger”: There’s a voice crying in
the wilderness in Queensland. Its owner
guarantees to eliminate the fly pest, eco-
nomically and permanently!
He wants, roughly, £250,0b0 for his
secret. No one gives him a hearing. His
terms are easy: Umpires to be appointed,
tests to be made, experiments to be con-
ducted. If the thing is all he claims it to
be, he gets his money ; if not, he doesn’t
draw a bob and the country has the bene-
fit of what it learns from him.
For years a Maorilander offered to do
the same thing with the rabbits that the
Queenslander guarantees to do with the
flies. Also, when the beef nodule was
eating into the cattle cheques—it still
takes its cut —Walter H. Rose made an
offer to the Government. His terms were
the same as the fly man’s, though he
didn’t want more than about a tenth the
reward. His experiments would have
cost nothing other than the pay of the
umpires, and he claimed to have tested
his method on big stations which he had
been managing—there were few better
cattlemen than old Walter.
In common with his modern confreres
Walter Rose never got a hearing, let
“Mind, Ma—she kicks a bit!”
alone a chance to show what he could
do.
Sheep Drenches.
“J.R.D.”: “W.D.McC.” (B. 21/12/’3B)
is inconsistent in deprecating the use of
bluestone and nicotine sulphate as a
drench while advocating a mixture of
arsenic, soda and tobacco.
If nic. sulph. is an irritant, why not
tobacco juice? I used the mixture advo-
cated by “W.D.McC.” 15 years ago and
got good results with it, but have had
far better results with bluestone-nic.
sulph. and carbon tet.
The two worms which are the chief
cause of mortality are the large stomach
worm and the black scour worm. Car-
bon tet. (double strength) is a dual-pur-
pose drench, killing both large stomach
worms and adult liver fluke. Bluestone-
nic. sulph. is the best all-round drench
for use against these worms.
The arsenic, soda and tobacco drench
will kill the black scour worm if it reaches
it in sufficient strength, but it has to pass
through the various stomachs before
reaching the small intestine where the
black scour worm is found. The blue-
stone closes the oesophageal groove and
thus short-circuits the passage of the
drench, cutting out the paunch and the
second and third stomachs. The nic.
sulph., therefore, arrives in full strength
in the fourth stomach and operates on
the worms straight away.
This drench is no more irritant than
the one “W.D<McC.” quotes. Nic. sulph.
is recommended by vets, as an external
application for certain forms of itch.
Nowhere in the world is the combination
of arsenic and nicotine recommended,
as these are two of the strongest poisons
used on stock.
Phalaris Tuberosa.
“Mt. Boppy”: During the past three
years, all dry, Phalaris tuberosa has
proved 90 p.c. better than other grasses
on T. L. F. Rutledge’s Gidleigh station,
Bungendore (N.S.W.).
In 1929 Rutledge ploughed 60 acres of
medium to heavy loam and grew a crop
of oats with lcwt. of super, per acre. Next
year he sowed a mixture of lucerne, sub.
clover, sheep’s burnett, perennial rye and
phalaris with a cover crop of oats. The
paddock has been topdressed with lcwt.
of super, per acre every year since,
phalaris and sub. clover now dominating
the sward.
During winter, average carrying was a
beast to two acres. Fifty head of store
bullocks, put into the paddock in early
September, were sold as fats at the end
of November, when the pasture was beat-
ing them.
This trial convinced Rutledge that
phalaris was the outstanding grass for his
district, as it withstood drought, winter
and heavy grazing, and he plans to in-
crease the area. He does not depend on
pastures alone, but has big reserves of
silage as a drought insurance.
More Farm Improvement.
“Jayem”: Six years ago S. Churchill
and Sons bought Otago, Kangaloon
(N.S.W.), regarded as one of the poorest
farms in the district. This year they won
the coastal division of the R.A.S. grass-
land improvement championship. Their
methods were similar to those followed
in Maoriland and Great Britain.
Otago has 117 acres of light-grey soil,
formerly covered with bracken fern and
blackberry. The whole area is now under
improved pastures of perennial rye grass,
cocksfoot, red and white clovers. Tem-
porary pastures, lasting two to three
years, of Italian rye grass and red
clover are grazed in winter, spelled for
a few weeks, and then cut for hay or
silage, yields averaging a ton (dry weight)
per acre. Cropping has been eliminated,
the rye-red clover mixture replacing oats
for grazing, hay and silage. The place
carries 60 head of cattle, and the owners
say that it is understocked.
Average annual rainfall is 50in. Soil
fertility is built up by heavy topdressing
of pastures. Two dressings of 1501 b. of
superphosphate each are applied every
year, lOcwt. of lime being used in
addition every three years. Winter
growth is stimulated by the use of |cwt.
of sulphate of ammonia about a month
after sowing and again in July.
Rate of seeding to establish pastures
was 151 b. of N.Z. certified perennial rye,
31b. of red clover, 31b. of cocksfoot, 21b.
of subterranean clover and -jib. of white
clover per acre. Perennial rye and
clovers are dominant in established
swards. Temporary pastures (for graz-
ing, hay and silage) consist of 101 b. of
Italian rye and 101 b. of red clover per
acre.
Surplus growth is controlled by mow-
ing, and pastures are harrowed every
autumn and spring. Milk production
varies little on a summer-winter com-
parison.
One result of the heavy topdressing
has been the stimulation of a healthy
growth of ball clover, which, on adjoining
untreated areas, is barely discernible.
Churchill and Sons are showing that
wisely-managed grasslands will provide
grazing and all necessary fodder reserves
for a dairy herd. Elimination of annual
cropping for fodder has reduced over-
head and provides an opportunity to
increase soil fertility.
The Year’s Sweetest Months.
“Melis”: December and January are
the bee men’s busy months, and* in hun-
dreds of apiaries, big and small, the
o Continued on page 38.)


CHOOSE THE
FOR EVERY
JOB
y.
Zoomsl
W/'/
*?///
or
C
i
ALLIS-CHALMERS
MODEL
M
MAKE TIME..n the
TURNS..ON STEEP HILLS
...ON THE STRAIGHT AWAY
Model “M” Crawlers for Sure-footed Traction . . .
goes where you cannot follow it .. . Ideal for
moderate-sized Farms, Tank Sinking, etc.
ONE Q’LAND OWNER OF 9 “M” TRACTORS STATES:
For sheer dependability, robust construction and low operating
and maintenance costs the ALLIS CHALMERS ‘AT
FRACTOR is unsurpassed. My Fleet average under one
gallon of fuel per hour on all operations .**
THE IDEAL TRACTOR FOR
TANK or DAM SINKING.
Headquarters
- House -
EDWARD ST
BRISBANE
j
N-QBranch
STURTS!
TOWN SVI 111
ENGINEERING
Supply c?cf
AUSTRALIA L TD
r.®Wr
If HEg
■■ «
'
&»>*■■■
M6i.M
THE “ZIPP”
RIDING BOOT
Enjoy the comfort and service of this famous and popular
boot. The elastic sides are extremely convenient when
putting on or taking off the boot. Exclusive to Pike
Brothers (Reg. Design No. 9292).
PRICED AT 33 9
The “Mexican” Riding Boot
This is another popular boot by Pike Brothers. Extremely
comfortable and long wearing.
PRICED AT 29 6
PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Also at Townsville, Toowoomba and Roma.
When Making Farm Improvements
BUILD IN CONCRETE
Because
mgm
■
CONCRETE WILL INCREASE
YOUR PROPERTIES’ VALUE
n
EASE
INGS
f§
f i* ''
YOUR PROPERTIES
MOpEL FARMERS HAVE SET
YOU A LEAD B
!te
Write lor free suggestions, advice, and booklets
on
Method of Making; Concrete Concrete Round the Home
Concrete Fence Posts Concrete Silos
Concrete Troughs, Tanks and Wells Leaking Tanks Conquered withjConcrefc
C °!S! ete Blocks ’ Bricks and Slabs
Concrete r ,for Farnit and Station.
I % : > A T-,
W.
Cement Manufacturers’ Association
A National Organisation to Improve and Extend the Uses of Concrete
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone: 82471.
Record Sales of
BILLABONG AND COO-EE
AUTO OILED,
ENCASED GEARED
WINDMILLS.
PROVE THAT
THIS EQUIPMENT
IS THE FINEST IN THE LAND
JOHN DANKS & SON Pty. Ltd
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE ’Phone: CB3BO.
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY ’Phone: M 6505.
DUST-PROOF,
LEAK-PROOF,
STORM-PROOF
WRITE IMMEDIATELY
FOR PARTICULARS
OF THESE FAMOUS
MILLS.


82826
ft. VC 1.
%
\
\
YiSV.
v_/
/
IMPORTED ZEBU LOOKS VERY SMART.
Especially when it is moulded on an extended square-toed last.
Apart from looks it has exceptional wearing qualities, being strong and tough.
Made with punched full golosh and full wide welt, and stocked “in full and
half sizes. Brown, Price 37/6
Write for a Catalogue.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s. a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
ĵ
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT.
We specialise in dependable
seeds for Farmers and Graziers.
Italian Bye Grass «/- Bushel Wimmera Itye Grass , 7/6 Bushel
N.Z. Superfine White Clover, 1/10 Pound Subterranean Clover 1/4 Pound
N.Z. Perennial Bed Clover ... 1/3 Pound N.Z. Certified Peren. Bye Grass, 20/- Bus.
PBICES ABE NEXT CASH ON BAIE OB BOAT SYDNEY.
We stock all classes of Agricultural Grass and Grain Seeds. Quotations for quantities.
Write us about your problems.
A.J. HATCHMAN PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA5094.
171 & 123 SUSSEX
STREET, SYDNEY.
GIVES TO UNSEWERED AREAS
one of the Amenities of City Life.
Approved by the Board of Health.
No Stench, Flies or Germs.
j
No water supply
required. Can be
installed where
septic tank is not
practicable. The
most widely used
system in A’asia.
In Homes, Hotels,
Schools, Theatres,
etc. Shell Oil Co.
60 repeat orders.
Bank of N.S.W.
15. Any handyman
can install them.
Automatic. No emptying. Write for pamphlet.
Price, £l5/10/- Sydney. Agents all States.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
Hygeia Sanitary Company Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
jT^fyxxllefz/rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
THE KING’S SCHOOL
(PARRAMATTA)
m
. > ss
Extensive modern additions. New class-
rooms, laboratories, dormitories, modern
swimming pool.
Vacancies for 1939.
APPLY THE HEADMASTER
struggle is going on to keep the supply
of hives and material up to the honey
flow.
Much honey is lost every year through
failure to keep pace with the bee. All
of it could be saved, together with a lot
of elbow-grease and energy, if apiarists
provided ample storage accommodation.
The two-storey hive with accommo-
dation for an emergency tier of empty
combs above is a payable investment,
since it helps to assure that there will
be ample room for quick-flowing sup-
plies, provides extra storage while lower
combs are ripening and saves a good deal
of walking in the course of handling and
inspection. Many bees are driven to
unproductiveness through having to spell
while the honey in a too-small hive ripens
and is capped.
, Much commercial honey suffers
through failure to use full sheets of
comb foundation, which allow combs to
be removed readily for inspection to meet
official regulations, make it possible for
the bees to build out the best worker
combs, and promote production.
N. S. Wales Agricultural Department
gives insistent advice on this point, but
some apiarists still stick to mere strips
of foundation. Although strips may
allow straight building, they favor the
production of too much drone comb.
Honey farming is often a migratory
business, the motor-truck aiding pro-
ducers to follow the honey flow. In
summer, when there is a large popula-
tion and considerable honey in the hives,
it is a ticklish business. Good ventila-
tion must be provided on the journey.
Departmental honey experts recom-
mend that for travelling all combs heavy
with honey should be taken out care-
fully and carried by themselves. Frames
should be levered together firmly and
wedged in position with chocks inserted
next to the side of the hive.
Give each hive a super for extra clus-
tering space and air supply. And, above
all, travel when the weather is cool,
preferably in the evening or late after-
noon.
Banana Leaf Spot.
“Lady’s Finger”: This disease, in-
creasing on the N.S.W. North Coast,
seriously affects plants bunching in the
first three months of the year.
N. S. Wales Agricultural Department
has experimented to find a means of
control, as have experts in overseas
banana countries. The results are all in
favor of a 1-1-10 Bordeaux plus Agral
spreader applied at intervals from Janu-
ary onwards.
In one trial, in which controls were
used against monthly sprayings with the
mixture, May inspection found sprayed
plants with six to 10 green leaves against
one to four on unsprayed plants, and
fruit filled better on the sprayed than
on the unsprayed plants.
The technique followed by the depart-
ment was to use each spraying to allow
two healthy leaves to be carried to
maturity by summer-bunching plants. It
was found that four green leaves during
late bunch-maturity were enough to en-
sure normal filling and ward off sunburn.
There seems to be no doubt that five
fortnightly sprays will give almost com-
plete protection, but the problem on
most banana plantations with their hilly
contours is how to do the job econo-
mically.
With a suitably-designed barrel pump
one or two sprayings might be com-
mercially economical.
"Excuse me, sir, is this the tram to
Wynyard ?”
The Value of Sugar.
“Titre”: Does any other Australian
rural industry give its farmers anything
like the return per acre which comes
from sugar?
In 1937-38—the figures used here are
those for Queensland, just out —the aver-
age paid for sugar for Australian con-
sumption was £24, and for export £8 6s.
An average of 30 acres per farm was
crushed for 656 tons of cane. Since 1914
cut cane acreage has grown from 95,000
to 245,000, and cane crushed has in-
creased from 1,537,000 tons to 5,132,886
tons. Sugar production has increased
from 179,107 tons in 1911 to 763,242
tons.
Yet this was the industry about which
it was alleged a decade before 1911 that
it would die a sudden death if black
labor were taken from it.
In 26 years the output of sugar has
been increased by improved canes and
methods from 1.87 to 3.11 tons per acre,
so that now only 6.73 tons, instead of
8.57 tons of cane in 1911, is needed
for one ton of sugar.
There are 7826 cane farms in Queens-
land, and the 245,000 acres crushed re-
turned £8,350,000 gross to growers. In
Rockingham, the area north of Towns-
ville which grows half the cane in the
State, the gross return per acre of cane
crushed was £4l Bs. 4d., or £1948 per
farm.
Cutting and production costs come out
of that, but even though these are heavy
no other form of farming, unless it be
some types of orcharding, can compare
with it for returns per acre or certainty
of income.
Hints for the Farm.
“Pippin”: Don’t spray apple- and pear-
trees for codling moth till most of the
petals have fallen. Too early spraying
may mean death to the bees, which have
so much to do with fertilisation and the
setting of fruit.
“Lam”: In planting eucalypts, keep
fruits in a tin till dried; shake out seed
when well ripened. Pack tins with firm
loam, and over it spread a heavy dressing
of drift sand. Plant the seed in the
sand, press firmly down with a piece of
flat wood, and water several times a
day. Put the young plants into a per-
manent position, tin and all.
“Valerin”: To get rid of saffron thistle
mow the stubble and burn it after har-
vest. Burning standing stubble does not
destroy the tall pods, so the seed ripens
and the wind spreads it over the pad-
dock.
“Sandy”: To keep a pitchfork handle
“springy,” rub with neatsfoot oil and
suspend. Bore a small hole 2in. deep
in the end of the handle and fill from
time to time with the same oil.
“S.”: When a cow is being treated for
milk fever there is no need to tie the
teats after the udder has been pumped.
As soon as the pump has been with-
drawn place a finger over the teat hole.
Press and release as when testing the
valve of a car tube. This closes the
valve at the top of the teat. This method
will obviate tape sores.
“Kooragai”: The giant yam from the
Trobriands, introduced on the Tweed
River experimentally, resembles the
sweet potato, and is relished by growers
on the N.S.W. North Coast, but I have
not met with it yet in southern markets.
Free roots were distributed by the Agri-
cultural Department, and it grows well
in northern N.S.W. and Queensland.
“Drover”: Without a calf cart in the
plant cows calving on the stock route
cause a lot of trouble. Killing the calf
and carrying the skin along will invari-
ably keep the cow on night camp, but
it’s an unpleasant procedure in hot
weather or when flies are bad. A method
I’ve used was to throw the cow at sun-
down and hobble her. Getting the
hobbles off often took time, but it was
better than having to send someone back
for the cow.
“Zedo”: Consider the improvement
in butter export 40,125 tons between
July 1 and November 26, against
28,787 tons in the same period last year.
Queensland led with 19,696 tons, Vic-
toria was next with 13,055, and N.S.W.
could spare only a little over double the
W.A. quota. The Mother State’s export
surplus was 3360 tons.
“Stone Fruit”: Having tried most of
the by-no-means-inexpensive lures, baits,
sprays and traps recommended by
various authorities for the combating of
fruit-fly, I mixed one of my own —and
guarantee it 98 p.c. efficient. Half-
gallon cold water, one cup of any sort of
jam (stone fruit for preference) or
molasses, one heaped teaspoonful of
yellow sheep-dip. Mix well and hang in
half-full tins. It will not only lure,
drown or poison the fruit-fly, but will
also mop up lots of night-flying cabbage-
and tomato-moths. But don’t spill the
mixture on ripe fruit and then eat with-
out washing.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
HE SUFFERED AGONY
IN WET WEATHER
Rheumatism Attacked Limbs
and Body.
He had been bothered with rheumatism for
years. The pain in wet weather—to use his
own expression—was “indescribable.” But all
that is gone now—thanks to Kruschen. Read
this letter:—
“I suffered with rheumatism for years. 1
dreaded wet weather, for during such periods
the pain was continuous and indescribable. To
begin with, it was confined to my limbs, but in
time I began to suffer as much agony in my
body as I did in my limbs. When I began to
take Kruschen Salts, I found it did me more
good than all the other medicine 1 had taken
put together. To-day, I have peace and free-
dom from pain, even during wet weather, and
can heartily recommend Kruschen Salts to any-
one who suffers from rheumatism.” —N.M.
Rheumatic conditions are the result of an
excess of uric acid in the body. Two of the
ingredients in Kruschen Salts have the power
of dissolving uric acid crystals. Other in-
gredients in these Salts assist Nature to expel
the dissolved crystals through the natural
channels.
a
S
&
&
Take one minute now to sign
an application for life assur-
ance with the Equitable Pro-
bate and General Insurance
Co., Ltd. You will save your
wife and family many years
of hardship should you be
taken from them.
BE PROTECTED
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Ilrlsbane.
Wlngello House, Angel Place. Sydney.
Collins House. Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. PERKINS. General Manager.
turn • • •
1 ?■
m
The Canadian
Australasian Line’s
long experience
in Pacific Travel
assures
modern comfort
and model service.
The Canadian Australasian route to Europe is a
succession of vivid, ever-changing contrasts. Calls
are made at Auckland, Suva, Honolulu, Victoria 8.C.,
and Vancouver.
For all information apply:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z., LTD.
247 George Street, Sydney. (Incorporated in N.Z.). 59 William Street, Melbourne.
SaanjOudi^
;553
WMM
m
m
Head Office
Sydney, N.S.W.
ESTABLISHED
1834
THE
Commercial Banking Company
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly In the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012, 10 0
DIRECTORS:
JAMES ASHTON (Chairman); EDWARD R. KNOX;
OWEN E. FRIEND; SIR WM. VICARS, C.8.E.;
ORWELL PHILLIPS.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
Head Office:
343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
London Office: 18 BIRCHIN LANE, LOMBARD
STREET, E.C.3.
London Bankers:
The Bank of England; Westminster Bank, Ltd.; Barclay’s Bank, Ltd.;
National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout—New South Wales,
Victoria, Queensland, South Australia. And at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Vo notice (.except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
blame and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
L.C.W.: Don’t like the little girl who wants
to turn people into toads J. 8.: Out
W.J.T.: No berth for Ralph, the One and
Only S.D.W.: And back it’s gone
W.C.J.: Nothing to it C.C.: Charming
V.T.: Cut by half, perhaps E.T.F.: Not
‘‘drought, grisly drought” H.D.A.J.: Try
it on a women’s mag 0.H.J.: Goes back
“in cycles,” too P.R.: It isn’t what we want.
. ...A.G.E.: Couldn’t stick it out H.G.:
Not that one E.G.W.: Doesn’t quite make
the grade N.W.: Read the type of stuff
we publish P.McD.: Gloom W.P.: Well
off our beat J.A.K.: A thin “Turkey” for
this time of year 8.W.: Hopeless E.C.:
Very mild sarcasm E.E.: “Astray” i 5....
K. 8.: Make a short story of it D.V.N.:
Call again F. 5.8.: “Winds, winds, winds,
winds” blowing back again V.G.W.: Horses
need grooming D.F.: “Hangover Blues”
gave us them J.V.W.: “Just a Fag” is only
a bumper C.E.McG.: Immediately bought
a ticket for poem crying “Take me to the
bushlands, to the country that I know”
P.K.: “When valiant Cqok first leapt ashore”
he landed, unfortunately, in the w.p.b
H.V.A.: Squad dismissed S.M.: A flicker in
both of them A.A.8.: What on earth do
you mean by “she knoweth not the cause”?
J.F.H.: No life in “Realism” G.M.L.:
Might make a par. for a women’s paper....
D.8.0’C.: Spare us the “boska belles at
Bingle Bay”... .F.J.8.: Like the ravenous
what? N.G.: A sprightly effort, but it’s
not publishable R.W.G.: “Where Life is
earnest and not fun” is very decrepit Long-
fellow G.D.: “It was suggested to me that
1 try my hand professionally.” Suggest you
apply for reinstatement as an amateur
V.E.A.C.: Nothing for “Payment in Full”
H.T.D.: Nor for any of those S.W.:
Showed “The Guest” on his way....D.N.:
Piffle.. . .H.S.: “Indiscretion of a‘ Public Ser-
vant” will not be aired here... .R.H.S.: Yes, it’s
original N.H.T.B.: Why such gloom at this
time of year? M.T.F.: Sodden D.E.W.:
“Who Killed Martin Drew?” It’s got us guess-
ing, anyway... .K.G.: Burn ’em all H.T.S.:
It spoiled our New Year’s dinner... .L.R.V.:
Religious Editor to try “Father O’Brien’s Sys-
tem” at next Saturday’s meeting... .L.P.T.:
Doesn’t make a yarn F.T.W.: Cut by half
and try a daily... .B.S.: Flapper fare....
T.C.D.: Takes more than that village belle to
rope us in... .C.R.E.: “I’d be surprised if I
broke into print.” We’d be astounded....
F.J.A.: You’re falling off; only 10 murders
this time R.I.T.: Last few pages spoil it....
B.R.L.: Turned a fire-extinguisher on “Flame.”
. ...T.B.F.: Don’t like “appalling beauty”
D.C.: First of this year’s thirst-ridden pros-
pectors... .L.T.V.: That old skeleton has been
rattling around these past 40 years C.L.R.:
Now think of a plot G.N.R.: You’re
ploughing another man’s furrow... .F.C.R.:
Send in something lighter B.T.: You have
a natural gift for using the wrong words in
the wrong places... .P.T.D.: You might have
waited until we’d recovered from Christmas.
J.S.N.: Slight improvement L.R.D.:
But none there... .H.S.W.: “Guns or Knives?”
won’t persuade us to fork out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.G.: No place for your colored study of
fhe Duke of Kent W.R.: We bolted and
barred our doors against your visitor from
Mars E.N.: The point of the gag must have
got lost on the way F.T.: Take it out some
dark night and bury it deep in the backyard.
... .W.J.: Faint sense of humor, but no artistic
talent L.P.M.: The lad shows promise; give
him two or three years’ coaching B.W.:
Missed by a very wide margin M.N.: Looks
as if it was drawn while you were strap-hang-
ing in a tram... .E.J.: Hopelessly antiquated.
Y.D.: Try illustrating fairy tales... .P.T.:
Political cartoon is too confused A.B.:
“Hop” first put that missionary into a canni-
bal’s pot R.G.: Jest about the gent, who
called a spade a crimson shovel has whiskers.
. ...B.B.: You can manage the shoestrings
and that’s about all....C.S.: Admired your
barmaid’s good looks, but her back-chat is
crude and dull... .N.W.: Returning it tied up
with black crape F.J.D.: Neat and tidy,
but not the type to set readers guffawing....
OJ.: We published one very much like it a
few weeks back... .J.L.S.: Crayon work too
smudgy, pen drawings too scratchy... .A.P.:
We get that ancient without fail at the begin-
ning, of every new year G.B.: A dozen mis-
takes to every square inch A.C.: No park-
ing space for that spectre P.W.: Wash
drawing too dim and murky for reproduction.
H.M.J.: Garden hose looks like a garden
hose, but kookaburra scarcely resembles a bird.
B.S.: Get more life into your sketches, and
make jokes more crisp A.M.C.: Caricatures
need to be of persons in the public eye
D.S.W.: Yes, we’re prepared to buy jokes
apart from drawings and to pay 7s. 6d. each
for those that are acceptable.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Centurion”: Regular Army junior
officers as well as the naval variety had
l h , e , I XM^S ack^, of ms , tru I cti ° n in art ( B -
7/12/ 38). This took the form of “field
sketching, in which the budding
subaltern at Sandhurst was supposed to
qualify by going abroad with a plane
table and prismatic and recording
features of a section of country. This
gave useful instruction in perspective, at
any rate, and often the conscientious
pupil picked up a general grasp of draw-
ing which in after days brought guineas
from the “Graphic” and the “Illustrated
London News”—they paid well for
rough sketches of frontier scraps not im-
portant enough to demand the presence
of a regular war artist. Such sketches
were worked up by the staff artists in
London who had never been within thou-
sands of miles of the front.
* T , „ * * *
D.B.K. : Reference to Churchill’s
“Continental enterprises” (B. 14/12/’3B)
reminds me that I was, in my youth, an
unwilling cog in one of his wheels. Nov.
11, 1918, brought no surcease to us on
service with the R.N.A.S. in the Eastern
Med. Our squadron was re-formed,
and by February, 1919, I found myself
willy-nilly on the Caspian at an unholy
spot then named Petrovsk, where we did
more bombing than even in 1918 over
Bulgaria. We were graciously permitted
to return home a year after the Tumult
had died away. My father informed me
that he and several others with sons in
Russia had instigated inquiries in the
House, and Churchill’s explanation was
that all men serving in Russia were
volunteers. There was no volunteering
about the Caucasus. One did not disobey
orders when in uniform on active service
with the prospect of 90 days’ cells under
naval discipline at Malta!
* „* * *
“Feng-Shui”: Marshal Wu-Pei-fu is
reported to have been appointed Presi-
dent of All China by the Japanese. When
the coup was due to be proclaimed the
marshal changed his mind. Fifteen years
ago Wu, called “the Iron Marshal,”
was regarded as anti-Japanese. Having
bitten the ears of foreign financiers for
a tidy loan, he raked together a large
ar my of coolies and was confidently ex-
pected to establish a dictatorship under
British auspices. At the height of his
fame he vanished, subsequently turning
up at a monastery, where he announced
that he had renounced the world and
i n future would devote himself to writing
poems. He repeated this manoeuvre many
times. Crabbing out of a difficult posi-
tion is a recognised habit of Chinese
statesmen
* * * *
“Apella”: In one of his recent essays
Professor Murdoch suggests that the
prejudice which once existed against Jews
in England was largely created by
Shakspeare’s picture of Shylock. Also,
he points out, something which few
people can ever have realised, that it
is highly improbable that Shakspeare
ever saw a Jew in the flesh, for the poet
was never (as far as is known) out of
England and none of the Chosen Race
were to be found there from the time
of Edward 1., who banished them, to that
of Cromwell. My own idea is that
Dickens has more to answer for than
Shakspeare for laying an indictment
against a race in the portraiture of one
individual. Is there a more loathsome
character than Fagin in the Dickens
gallery? And Dickens, unlike Shak-
speare, must have known many Jews,
* * * *
Lake View’s general manager, Joe
Thorn—of Cornish ancestry, American
born, but a naturalised Australian—was
dined and wined by the chairman and
directors in London on November 16.
Nine years ago when Thorn took charge
of Lake View profits were down to
a few thousands per annum. Backed
by Consolidated Gold Fields (principal
shareholder), he spent £500,000 on new
plant and equipment, and more in de-
velopment. The success of this bold
policy is indicated by the profit of nearly
£500,000 earned during year ended June
30 last, and the 50 p.c. (2s. per share)
div. paid. Thorn is returning via America
from a world tour.


Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin tc? hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
School-teacher (30), N.S.W., intending resign
trom service, seeks position country business
anywhere. Prepared invest £150; can keep
books, some organising ability.—2ool.
Lady, Sydney, journalistic and organising
ability, seeks position.—l 999.
Vic. Mallee cocky, returned soldier, eight
children, wants employment of any sort for
duration of drought.—l94s.
Two. young men (19 and 20), Vic., account-
ancy students, members of militia, one has
car license, seek positions in Northern Territory.
Refs.—2oo2.
Words of verses from New York “Life” com-
mencing “Water is full of little green-eyed
i n?f uses lQit er in the alimentine tract.”—
1965.
Information Sought.
(1) What place has the biggest rainfall in
Australia? (2) What is the highest temperature
recorded in Australia? —lBo9.
(1) Harvey’s Creek (Q’land), which has an
average of 169.32 in. over a period of 28 years.
The highest rainfall in that period for one year
was 254.77 inches in 1921. (2) The highest
temperature recorded in Australia was 125 deg.
at Bourke (N.S.W.) on January 3, 1909.
* * * *
Are there any records in the early history of
Australia about the “marked-tree lines”; if so,
where did they lead to and who made them?
I particularly desire information regarding
Leslie’s “marked-tree line.”- —lBl2.
Thomas Hall’s book The Early History of
Warwick District gives details of the route
taken and marked out by Patrick Leslie’s party
in 1840. Leslie’s marked-tree route follows
and crosses roughly Wyndham’s stockyard, Fal-
coner’s Plains, Cameron’s station on Bannock-
burn Plains, Severn River, Mclntyre’s Brook,
Quart-pot Creek, Canal Creek, Glengallan
Creek, Canning Downs and Condamine River.
Apparently it has always been the practice
of surveyors to mark trees as they survey new
tracts of country, making notes in their field
books of such marked trees. In an article by
Ernest Favenc in the Sydney “Morning Herald”
°l 1906, entitled “The Romance of
the Marked Tree,” in which he mentions the
Explorers’-tree on the Blue Mountains and
others, he says: “Incidentally, Mitchell was
precise and regular in marking trees as in every
other detail of his work.”
* * * *
Were any of the bushmen concerned in the
discovery of the Abercrombie Caves named
Abercrombie ? —1936.
The Abercrombie River was named by Com-
missioner Bigge in 1820. In a manuscript by
John Oxley, the Surveyor-General, entitled
“Remarks on the country between Bathurst
and Lake George,” written in 1820, there is
the following statement: “This river the
Commissioner named Abercrombie River.” The
caves must have received their name from the
river. It is not known why Bigge named the
river Abercrombie.
* * * *
Biography of Henry Lawson, including par-
ticulars of marriage and list of chief works?—
1986.
He was bom at Grenfell, N.S.W., in 1867.
the son of Peter Larsen, a bush worker and
builder, his mother’s maiden name being Louisa
Albury. His boyhood -was spent on the farm,
but later he learnt the trade of carriage-
painting, which he practised for a time. He
contributed prose and verse to The Bulleto
from 1887 until his death. He married, in 1896.
Bertha MacNamara, of Sydney (wlio survives
him), and had two children, James and Bertha,
Most of his life was spent in N.S.W., but he
paid visits of some length to Melbourne (1887),
W.A. (1889 and 1896), Brisbane (1890-91)!
where he was on the staff of the
Maoriland (1893), and a second trip, in 1897,
with his wife, when the two took charge of a
native school at Maungamanu, Kaikoura, in
the South Island; and London, in 1900, where
he remained for two years writing for English
publications. He returned to Sydney in 1902.
and resided there until his death on Septem-
ber 2, 1922. His chief publications, composed
very largely of work that had originally
appeared in The Bulletin, are Short Stories
in Prose and Verse, When the World Was Wide,
While the Billy Boils, Verses Popular ana
Humorous, The Country I Come From, Joe
Wilson and His Mates, Children of the Bush,
On the Track, Over the Sliprails, and When
l Was King.
* * * *
(1) / am told that the Solomon Islands were
discovered by Mendana in the sixteenth cen-
tury, and that he repaired his ships there. On
which island did he land? (2) Where did he
repair his ships? (3) Was H.M.S. Thunderer
in those waters in the seventies of last cen-
tury 7—1975.
(1) Ysabel. (2) At Realejo, now known as
Corinto, Nicaragua. There is no record of
their having been repaired in the Solomons.
(3) There is no record of the presence of
H.M.S. Thunderer in those waters.
* * * *
(1) When was rubber first discovered? (2)
Who made the first rubber tyres? —2ooo.
(1) It was first mentioned in 1525 when the
Spaniards in Mexico saw the natives playing
with balls of great elasticity. Rubber was sug-
gested as a pencil eraser in 1770. In 1823,
Macintosh, of Manchester, discovered that ben-
zine would dissolve rubber and commenced the
manufacture of rubber fabrics. (2) The first use
of rubber tyres was when Dietz patented a
rubber cushion applied to an iron ring or tyre
in 1835. The first pneumatic tyre was patented
on Dec. 10, 1845, by R. W. Thompson, an
Englishman.
* % %
When and by whom was the first power-pro-
pelled vehicle invented? —1964.
By Joseph Cugnot, a French engineer, in
1770. He built a steam automobile that hauled
2i tons at 3 m.p.h., which vehicle is still pre-
served in France. In 1802 the first practical
steam automobile was built by the Englishman
R. Trevithick, who used a crankshaft for the
first time. In 1821 Griffiths, an English en-
gineer, built a steam vehicle having a coach
design of body with sprung seats. The first
motor vehicle to carry passengers for hire was
built by W. Hancock in 1834, the motive power
still being steam.
(1) Meaning of the term “piston displace-
ment” as applied to car engines ? (2) How is it
determined ? —1973.
(1) It is the volume of gas displaced during
one stroke of the piston. (2) Multiply the
bore, squared, by the stroke, both in inches,
and then multiply the result by the constant
0.7854. If the total displacement is required
the answer must be again multiplied by the
number of cylinders. Example: The cylinders
of a four-cylinder engine have a 4in. bore
and a 6in. stroke; the piston displacement will
be 4 x 4 x .7854 x 6, or 75.3984 cub. in. per
cylinder, a total displacement of 301.5936 cub. in.
* * * *
Origin of English surname “Ensor” ? —1606.
The Ensor family, of Rollesby Hall, Nor-
folk, is descended from the Edensors of
Staffordshire, _ who doubtless got the name
from the parish of Edensor in the neighboring
couny of Derbyshire. Name is an example of
verbal telescoping, as with Cholmondeley
(Chumley) and Marjoribanks (Marchbanks).
In Domesday Book it is given as Ednesoure,
a place on the bank of the River Derwent.
Aidan, Aedan or Eden are said to have been
other names for the Derwent, and the “or”
meant “bank” or “edge.”
* * * *
Best time to repot ferns? Composition of
potting soil mixture? —1942.
Repotting should be done in June or July
while the ferns are dormant, but if the work
must be done at the present time keep the re-
potted ferns in a cool, shaded corner for a
few weeks to become rooted. Hessian or
sphagnum moss packed round the pots and
kept moist will assist the ferns to take' root.
An excellent potting mixture can be made from
loam (two parts), leaf mould (two parts), well-
rotted cow-manure (one part) and sand (one
part). Put charcoal or stones in the pots for
drainage before filling in the soil.
* * * *
What are the botanical names of the Christ-
mas trees of N.S.W., Westralia and Maoriland,
and the general height they grow? —l9ls.
Ceratopetalum gumniferum, the N.S.W.
variety, grows to 25ft.; the Westralian, Nuytsia
floribunda, grows to 40ft.; the Maorilander,
Metrosideros tomentosa (commonly called the
pohutukawa), grows to 20ft.
* * * *
How is the tamping work on the tracks of
the Sydney tramways carried out? How many
men operate a tamping machine, and what are
their wages? —l9B4.
With pneumatic tamping machines. These
weigh 351 b. and have an air-pressure of 901 b.
to the sq. in., the air being supplied through
a hose attached to an air-compressor. Each
machine is operated by one man, who holds
the handle in both hands and applies the point
of the tamper in order to press the metal under
the sleepers. The men operating these
machines are paid laborers’ wages of 14s. per
day.
* * * *
Conditions of entry into (1) the Mandated
Territory of New Guinea and (2) Papua? (3)
Chances of employment there for fitters, elec-
tricians and other skilled tradesmen? —1488.
(1) A special permit is granted on produc-
tion of evidence that the applicant is proceeding
to an assured engagement or is in possession of
a return ticket or sufficient capital to provide
for maintenance whilst in the Territory. (2)
A person may be required upon arrival to
satisfy the authorities that he has sufficient
capital or has made satisfactory arrangements
for maintenance whilst in that Territory.
Persons desiring to engage in mining pursuits
are required to deposit £5O on arrival, and
should have at disposal cash or credit to the
extent of at least £2OO. (3) No demand at
present so far as the Administrations are con-
cerned. Possibilities of private employment
could be ascertained by application to Burns,
Philp and Co., 7 Bridge-street, W. R. Carpen-
ter and Co., 19-21 O’Connell-street, Bulolo
Gold Dredging, Ltd., Shell House, Carrington-
street, New Guinea Goldfields, Ltd., 67 York-
street —all Sydney; British New Guinea Trading
Co. and Steamships Trading Co.—both Port
Moresby.
* * * *
(1) Average size of shires in Vic.? (2)
Average revenue? (3) Percentage of adminis-
trative charges to revenue? (4) Assistance, if
any, given by the State Government towards
road maintenance? (5) What work, if any, is
carried out by the shires free of cost to the
Government ? —l7BB.
(1) 626 sq. m. (2) For 1936-37, £11,745.
(3) 11.1. (4) State highways are wholly main-
tained by the Government (Country Roads
Board), and for maintenance on declared
main roads the shires contribute amounts
varying from one-third to one-tenth. (5) The
municipalities administer sustenance, but in re-
turn receive the benefits of any work done in
return for sustenance. Where the municipality
is the water authority, free water is supplied
to State schools in its district. Streets in the
municipal districts abutting on Crown lands
are constructed without charge to the Govern-
ment. The municipalities also supply a con-
siderable amount of statistical information to
the Government.
* * * *
Can I claim compensation from the P.M.G.’s
Department for financial loss caused by (1) non-
delivery of a telegram intended for me, and
(2) error in telegram received, such error being
made in transmission? —lB93.
Telegrams are accepted for transmission sub-
ject to the Post and Telegraph Act and Regula-
tions, and this information is printed on all
telegraph forms. The regulation covering your
inquiry reads as follows: “69. (1) In accordance
with the provisions of the International Tele-
graph Convention, responsibility shall not be
undertaken nor any claim for compensation en-
tertained, for any errors or mistakes in trans-
mission or delay in delivery of telegrams,
whether repeated or unrepeated; or for non-
transmission or non-delivery or mis-delivery of
telegrams, from whatever cause such errors or
mistakes in transmission or delay in transmission
or delivery or non-transmission or non-delivery
or mis-delivery may arise.” (2) Where a telegram
is lost or mutilated in transit, and therefore
becomes useless so far as the sender is con-
cerned, the Postmaster-General may, as an act
of grace, and not in consequence, of any legal
liability, refund the amount paid for trans-
mission.
* * * *
I have seen reports of a new glass capable
of partly polarising light transmitted. It is
recommended for car windscreens for its anti-
glare effect. I wish to use it as an aid to marine
photography. Where is this glass procurable,
in Australia or overseas, and approximate cost?
—lBlO.
The particular material referred to is used
for the manufacture of anti-glare windscreens,
anti-glare reading lamps, etc., and is manufac-
tured by the Polaroid Corporation, 285 Colum-
bus-avenue, Boston, Massachusetts, U.S.A.
Kodak (A/sia) Pty., Ltd., Sydney, has in stock
supplies of Pola screens manufactured by the
Eastman Kodak Company in America and
priced as follows: diameter screens £3
155., 3£in. diameter screens £6. In addition,
a lens hood and holder suitable for use with
these screens cost £1 17s. 6d. and £2 ss. 6d.
respectively.
* * * *
Recipe for old-style bush damper? —l73s.
Make a good fire of clean wood and let it
burn through well, leaving a glowing mass. Mix
the damper quickly when the fire is ready and
move smartly, as it is spoilt and heavy if
handled too much or overmixed. Place some
self-raising flour, or plain flour into which has
been mixed one teaspoon of baking powder to
every pound, in a basin, add a pinch of salt
to every cup of flour, mix with a knife, form a
slight hole in the centre, and pour in enough
warmish water to make a light soft dough.
Do not stir too much; as soon as it forms
into one mass nicely, sprinkle a little flour over
it to handle easily, shape into a rough loaf,
scrape out a place in the hot ashes, place the
damper there and draw coals and ashes over it.
Cook for about half an hour. Test by inserting
a sharp clean twig or piece of clean wire, and if
it comes away clean the damper is cooked. If
an uncooked damper is removed too soon it is
almost impossible to complete its cooking
properly by putting it back. Only experience
will enable you to make a good damper;
measure carefully and note the results, then
stick to the method which gives a good loaf.
* * * *
How to prepare and polish tortoiseshell?
How to restore plates to their original shape?
Can an amateur carry out this work? —1892.
Surface irregularities should be removed with
a file or scraped down with a sharp knife, then
smooth surface by rubbing with fine sand t or
sand-soap, rub out fine scratches caused ’by
sand with Tripoli powder mixed with an oil
such as linseed or olive oil and rub to a high
polish with powdered whiting or rouge. The
polishing of tortoiseshell can be successfully
done by an amateur, but if you are doubtful
about obtaining a good result yourself a
polisher of marble might undertake to do the
work for you. The plates may be restored to
their original shape by steam heat.
* * v *
Formula for whitewash' used on the White
House, Washington (JJ.S.A.)? —1895.
Assemble two pecks urislaked lime, one peck
common salt, 31b. rice-flour, £lb. whiting, lib.
clean white glue, and sufficient water to carry
out the formula. Slake the lime in a vessel
of about 10 gallons capacity; cover it, strain,
and add the salt, previously dissolved in suffi-
cient warm water to make a solution of satu-
rated salt. Mix the rice-flour with a little cold
water, add enough water to make a thin paste,
and stir until it boils to a fairly thick mass;
keep hot. Have the glue soaking in water, then
dissolve over a water bath. Add the rice, glue
and whiting to the salt-and-lime mixture, stir
well, then add five gallons hot water. Stir
thoroughly and cover from dirt. Let stand
three days, when it is ready for use. Apply hot
by working from a portable fireplace, or make
a small quantity hot and while using it keep
another quantity on the fire- ready to take up.
* * * *
Recipe for fruit. saline? —1694.
Sift together 12oz. citrate of magnesia, |lb.
cream of tartar, £lb. bicarb, soda, 1-lb. caster
sugar (or icing sugar), ilb. Epsom salts, loz. tar-
taric acid, 6 drops essence lemon. Must be
thoroughly blended. Keep in airtight dry
bottles or tins, Dose: One teaspoonful on
rising.
* v * *
(1) Did Bob Fitzsimmons and Mickey Walker
hold more than one world’s championship at
a time ? (2) Is Henry Armstrong the
first boxer to win three world’s championships
and hold them at the one time? —1962.
(1) No. Fitzsimmons held only one world’s
championship at a time. He won the middle-
weight title by technically knocking out “Non-
pareil” Jack Dempsey on January 14, 1891,
and, although still able to make list. 61b. (the
middleweight limit), relinquished this champion-
ship to fight Jim Corbett for the heavyweight
title on March 17, 1897, when Corbett was
knocked out in 14 rounds. Fitzsimmons then
won the light-heavyweight championship from
George Gardner on November 25, 1903, but
this was the only championship then in his pos-
session, as Jim Jeffries had beaten him for the
heavyweight title at Coney Island on June 9,
1899. Walker was also world’s champion
of only one division at a time. Walker won
the welter championship from Jack Britton on
November 1, 1922, then lost it to Pete Latzo on
May 20, 1926, and he won the middleweight
title (which he relinquished to fight as a heavy-
weight in 1931) from “Tiger” Flowers on
December 20, 1926. (2) Yes.
Brief Answers.
D.H.S.: No particulars available in Sydney.
You will have to write to a Dublin firm.
Name and address obtainable from Dublin direc-
tory, which can be seen at Sydney G.P.O
R.H,A.: The apparatus or method used for
electrical sound reproduction can be pro-
tected by a patent provided that the known
apparatus is arranged in a novel way, or
operates on a new principle, or gives different
results. A final answer on this aspect cannot
be given without consideration of the actual
apparatus, function and result. If you use
patented apparatus such as loudspeakers, valves,
etc., it would be necessary to come to some
arrangement with the owners of the patents
therefor for the use of such patented apparatus
or for the supply of the components. The fact
that known components are used does not pre-
clude the possibility of patent protection
L.J.L.: (1) Not uncommon in Sydney. (2)
A copy is in the Mitchell Library, and four
others are in the hands of Sydney collectors.
(3) A good copy sells for £lO 10s J. 8.:
The figures quoted were from N.S.W. Cricket
Association’s Year-Book for 1936-37. Here
are the corrections from Wisden: Voce, 162.1
overs, 20 maidens, 560 runs, 26 wickets, average
21.53; O’Reilly, 247.6 overs, 89 maidens, 555
runs, 25 wickets, average 22.20 M.8.G.:
An appeal can be made against the light at any
time during the progress of a cricket match
and the umpires have to give their decision on
the matter. It is not unusual for such appeal
to be upheld in the middle of an over and the
remaining balls to be bowled the next day
Alec J.: Badcock and Hassett against Colombo
were both dismissed the same way (c. Hubert,
b. Pereira) and each scored 116. Australia
closed its innings at nine wickets for 367
0.K.0.: Write Registrar-General, H.M. General
Register House, Edinburgh, Scotland E.S.:
“Welcome 0f”... .A.D.R.: J. H. Scullin was
Prime Minister from October 22, 1929, to Janu-
ary 6, 1932. The 12th Parliament was dissolved on
November 27, 1931, and the 13th Parliament
elected on December 19, 1931. J. A. Lyons
became Prime Minister on January 6, 1932
J.J.G.: Norman, Lionel, Percy and Daryl Lind-
say are brothers. Jack, Ray and Phillip are
sons of Norman; Lionel and Percy each have
a son named Peter J.H.: Cannot trace any
reference to the proposal in Bulletin files during
the period mentioned P.P.: Beyond the
City Gates, by Jack Moses, is now out of print.
His Nine Miles from Gundagai is obtainable
from Angus and Robertson, Sydney... .A.A.:
Members of the House of Lords receive no
salary as such E.H.M.: Any of the London
daily newspapers may help you to trace them.
A.F.D.O.: N.S.W. Fisheries Branch, Chief
Secretary’s Department, Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney, will forward you a pamphlet on applica-
tion... .J.N.R.: Cannot see any alternative to
what your solicitor advises. If, as you say, the
travelling expenses would be equal to the
amount of your claim it is for you to con-
sider whether the technical point raised might
not prove fatal and you would then be saddled
with legal costs as well as travelling expenses.
You are unlikely to recover travelling ex-
penses, even should you be successful
G. 0.8.: Depends on form of title. If Real
Property (Torrens) Act, between £6 and £7; if
under the old system of title, then between
£7 and £9; if Crown land, impossible to say
L.W.: (1) Yes, if trespassing without lawful
excuse. He may stop anyone dumping rubbish
on the land without his permission, (2) Yes, the
council is fully clothed with power to compel
the payment of rates, and if unpaid has re-
course against the land itself. (3) He should
have a plan of the proposed dwelling-house
drawn up by an architect or builder for sub-
mission to the council for its approval. (4)
The rights of an owner are not specifically set
out in any Act of Parliament, but are deter-
mined by the common law and statutory enact-
ments passed from time to time P.S.P.:
The legal procedure for a change of name is to
have a deed poll drawn up by a solicitor and
deposited with the Registrar-General. The
registration fee is about 2s. 6d., and the
solicitor’s fee a matter of agreement. The
change would also have to be advertised
W.A.M.: There is a correspondence bureau
which makes contact with overseas pen-friends
at the League of Nations Union, 14 Castle-
reagh-street, Sydney J.T.: 17s. 6d. each,
from A.J.C. Motors, 49 Forbes-street, Sydney.
L.L.: If you consider your husband’s
death as due to war service you should apply
to the Deputy-Commissioner, Repatriation Com-
mission, Brisbane. Some financial assistance
might possibly be forthcoming if you presented
your case to the State Children Department,
William-street, Brisbane H.L.W.: Bluestone
will destroy fish, and its use should be dis-
couraged if equally effective but less harmful
means of destroying fluke snail are obtainable.
C.L.H.: There is no market for shark-
skins in Australia. Shark oil can be sold pro-
vided the stearine is extracted, and there is a
small demand for fins. Further particulars can
be obtained from James Hardie Trading Co.,
378 Kent-stfeet, Sydney, and Wing On and
Co., 10 Ultimo-road, Sydney. Inquiries should
be made of the Collector of Customs for in-
formation in respect of duties on these pro-
ducts J.G.L.: Write S. A. Parker, Ltd.,
330 George-street, Sydney G.E.S.: Write
Air Board, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne .
R.R.: Write Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., 5
Macquarie-place, Sydney A.H.: (1) The
making of a fishing rod can be accomplished
by almost anyone with a mechanical bent, and
many anglers make their own rods from timber
obtainable from fishing-tackle dealers, who will
usually furnish particulars. (2) No information
has been, published on the subject A.M.E.:
(1) H.M.A.S. Adelaide was built at Cockatoo
Island (Sydney). (2) Ye5....P.8.: Only his
openers.,..H.B.W.: Write Minister for De-
fence, Canberra, A.C.T G.W.: He was a
Catholic... .F.G.: Write Health Department,
Macquarie-street, Sydney K.R.: Write
N.S.W. Agricultural Department for Insect
Leaflet, No. 46, “Ants and Their Control.”
J.P.B.: Full particulars from Under-
secretary, Department of Territories, Canberra,
A.C.T,


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Tasmania wins the First Prize of £3 3s. this week, and the writer is a lady.
She very properly condemns mealtime and all-night sittings at Canberra.
Every week there is a prize of £3 35., m addition to A.J.A. rates paid also
to all competitors whose paragraphs appear—and every three months there will be
another prize of £lO.
Winners of and starters in any competition are eligible for all the others.
There is no express closing time for contributions other than the date of the
last, when that is announced; paragraphs submitted in any week may be carried
over. So it is possible for a contributor whose paragraph is already in type,
although it has not yet appeared, to gain a prize on a future occasion.
As an additional incentive to young fellows, “The Bulletin” promises a staff
cadetship as a prize, if it can get hold of a suitable youngster. Applicants will be
judged on their contributions to these pages, so they should keep their cuttings.
Houses of Parliament
The latest stunt in the Federal Parlia-
ment (I nearly said Commonwealth Par-
liament) of sitting through meal hours
calls for pungent comment. This and the
well-known method of sitting all night
are a disgrace to the name of Parliament.
To expect any man to concentrate on
affairs which affect the whole nation
when he is in need of food and sleep is
flying in the face of nature and against
all rules of commonsense. Worse, it is
usually on vital measures such as the
Budget and National Health and Pensions
that these expedients are brought into
play.
Sessions ordinarily cover such a rela-
tively small portion of the year that it
should be possible to extend them when
necessary without sitting the clock round.
For the matter of that, there is no valid
reason, with salaries so high, why they
should not be continuous or nearly so,
just as in any other business. Full thought
could then be given all matters, and we
should no longer see an immature bill
such as National Insurance rushed
through in a special sitting at the hour
when human resistance is at its lowest
ebb.—O. D. (Tas.).
“O. D.” is Mrs. O. Douglas, of Scotts-
dale, Tasmania. Three guineas for Mrs.
Douglas, plus space rates.
Native Grasses
It is time that Australian native grasses
got some attention from agricultural ex-
perts, scientists and plant-breeders. Im-
ported plants have proved themselves in
the higher-rainfall districts, where they
are making greatly-increased production
possible, but they won’t stand up to the
hot, dry weather of other localities.
Native plants, however, grow in the
dry districts. Their nutritive value may
not be high now, but it should be capable
of improvement if experts tackled the
job. If the best strains were selected
and improved by plant breeding, it is
possible that native grasses and other
fodder plants would enable the carrying
capacity of a large area of the Common-
wealth to be greatly increased. It is
probable, too, that they would enable
areas at present considered useless to be
brought into production.
In recent years the demand for
Mitchell-grass seed has grown, but this
valuable plant is not getting the attention
it deserves either from pastoralists or
agricultural experts. Some landowners
have sown saltbush in low-rainfall areas
and have got good grazing as a result,
but the work, comparatively, is infi-
nitesimal.
It is a job for the C.S. and 1.R., in co-
operation with State Departments of
Agriculture. Many landowners would co-
operate with the official bodies in field
trials, thus keeping cost of experiments
low. — Bundalinga (N.S.W.).
Bicycles for Defence
Two sections have been overlooked in
the defence drive—the motor-cyclist and
the cove that pedals a pushbike. If
motor-cycle battalions were organised,
on similar lines to the mechanised
machine-gun regiments, the rush of re-
cruits would stagger the defence authori-
ties. All my cobbers who own motor-
cycles say they would have no hesitation in
joining a specialist unit, and —something
that should appeal to the defence heads
—they would use their own machines
for training. Such a force could be
rushed to any centre where an attack
threatened, and their value as dispatch-
riders, messengers and scouts would be
enormous.
Thousands of young fellows ride push-
bikes to save fares or for pleasure. They,
too, would rush to join cyclist battalions,
and they could be used in somewhat
similar manner to the motor-cyclists. One
of the main points in their favor would
be that their mounts require neither
forage nor imported fuel, and if the
crisis with which we are threatened ever
did arrive the imported stuff would not
be plentiful.
As mobility is probably the most im-
portant necessity in Australian defence,
why not give the bike blokes a go? :
Pedaller (N.S.W.).
Parochialism and Unification
While I am a good-enough Australian
to hope that unification of some kind or
“Da game's no good since Toni coma backa from Sydney vit da
eighteen-feeta."
other will come to Australia, I have my
doubts. You have only to travel around
this country a little to find out that the
strongest defenders of State rights are
the people themselves, and not the poli-
ticians. As a Queenslander in a “foreign”
land (South Australia), I have fought
many battles for the fixed price in the
sugar industry. The main argument
always is that South Australia should
have the right to import sugar from any-
where. When asked what would happen
to the Queenslander under those condi-
tions the Southerners will answer to a
man, “Why should we worry about
Queensland?”
Nor is the Queenslander free from
State prejudice. I have heard people from
Brisbane refuse to cross the border at
Coolangatta-Tweed Heads, their only
reason, logical or illogical, being “I don’t
like the people in New South Wales.”
Nearly all of this parochialism is due to
the constant teaching of children that
they are Queenslanders, etc., first and
Australians afterward, and so ingrained
is it that a South Australian would rather
go broke tilling a few acres of stones in
his own State than in branching out into
another State. Once the legislators have
found a way to teach children that they
are first of all Australians, unification,
or something like it, will follow, but I
doubt if it will precede it. — Seal Tee
(S.A.).
Not Representative
During the September-October jitters
it was reported in the daily press that the
executive of the “All-Australian Trade
Unions” resolved that no support would
be given to Britain in the event of a
European war. In Germany this was
interpreted as meaning that the bonds
of Empire were weakening, and in con-
sequence German press headlines carried
the story “Australia Will Not Fight.” As
the executive of the A.A.T.U. does not,
and never did, represent the rank and
file of trade-unionists, the press would
be well advised to take its “resolves”
and “resolutions” with a grain of salt.
—Just a Worker (Tas.).
Lifesaving Instruction
One serious defect in our present
school system is the lack of training in
lifesaving. All children should learn the
Schaeffer resuscitation routine. Even
though unable to swim a stroke, such
ability may often be the means of saving
a human life. Frequently semi-conscious
victims are dragged out of the water,
only to die for lack of such knowledge
in the rescuer or bystanders. Those able
to swim would benefit from tuition in
the rescue and release methods also, the
latter being especially necessary.
Teachers could easily learn, and just
as easily impart to their pupils, the rescue,
release and resuscitation procedure by
means of the simple squad drills devised
for that purpose. Training unskilled
teachers could be arranged for with little
expense, and would undoubtedly assist
to reduce the number of drowning
fatalities recorded each year. —G. F. S.
(N.S.W.).
One Employment Registry
One of the most essential needs of
the moment is the establishment of one
central employment bureau in each capi-
tal city, operated and run entirely by the
State. All other employment agencies
of any sort whatever should be
eliminated.
At the present time there is far too
much wastage in energy, time, expense
and moral stamina by those out of em-
ployment because of the difficulty of
tracing work to its source. Some em-
ployers advertise vacancies, others deal
through various agencies which are run
purely for profit, others still through
existing Government labor bureaux, and
others again seem to wait until an appli-
cant comes along. In face of all this,
how is the unfortunate work-seeker to
conserve his savings and energy while
searching for a job?
A central bureau should be estab-
lished in each State, at which all workers,
of every sort or kind, would be registered.
To this employers should apply for work-
seekers, and here the work-seeker should,
automatically, be found a job of some
sort.
Such a bureau, if properly organised,
would be a tag on all those who manage
to live, somehow, without work. Fur-
ther, here could be filed the complete
working history of each worker. This
would do away with the necessity for
references and also render unnecessary a
great deal of superfluous work now un-
dertaken by various charitable organisa-
tions. And the existence of such a bureau,
in which the history of every worker in
the State was recorded, would be of
invaluable assistance to the Government
in any time of emergency.
Doctors, bricklayers, teachers, navvies,
domestics, professors, parsons and shop
assistants every worker in the State
should be registered at one central
bureau. Let them all be photographed
and finger-printed, if necessary. It is
essential to centralise this business—now
—before the next depression, or the next
war, is upon us. — Unemployee (Vic.)
Querying Propaganda
At an important educational congress
in Great Britain a leading education-
ist stated that “Education is the query-
ing of all propaganda.” For this rea-
son, nations have always been exceed-
ingly loath to allow absolute freedom of
thought, speech and discussion, which is
the most common form of education ;
but when, on rare occasions, this free-
dom has been granted to individuals, or
assumed by them, remarkable results
have been achieved —usually in the shape
of a startling reform. Emile Zola, Louis
Pasteur, William Wilberforce, Lord
Shaftesbury, Florence Nightingale, and
—most outstanding
Example of all —
Jesus Christ used the
education of free
speech and discus-
sion to overthrow
the insidious propa-
ganda of the “re-
spectable” hypocrisy
which opposed them.
Once those great
ones won a hearing,
and discussion of
their various teach-
ings was allowed,
great and permanent
good resulted. With
these facts occupy-
ing a prominent
position in our
minds, should we
not do our utmost
to promote the free
discussion of im-
portant subjects, and
to foster in ourselves and in our neigh-
bors a high regard for truth? Some
of our leading papers are launching
themselves wildly upon a campaign of
hysterical propaganda. We must not
allow ourselves to be talked into foolish
and precipitate action ; we must educate
ourselves by free speech and discussion
and wide reading. By such education
only can we “query this propaganda.”—
Baloo (Q.).
Bake Your Own
The uproar from city housewives’ asso-
ciations over high-priced bread leaves the
missus and me stone cold. If the new
tax really does make such a difference
in the housekeeping bills, why don’t the
protesting ladies make their own bread?
Three pounds of flour, two penn’orth of
compressed yeast, a little sugar and a
pint of tepid water, with, say, another
2d. for gas, will give three good loaves
for lOd. Keep everything warm during
thorough mixing and kneading, leave the
dough for three hours to rise near a
low one-flame gas-stove, or on a hot-water
bag with a warm towel over it, and do
your visiting or shopping or bridge while
it is rising. Turn and knead it again, shape
the loaves or put them in tins as you
prefer, and leave warm again for 45
minutes. Then bake in a moderate oven
for from 45 to 60 minutes according to
size of loaf.— Bull-ant Bill (Q.).
Hurry
Just recently I watched a well-to-do
business acquaintance running to catch
a tram. He covered the distance in fine
style, and entered the car triumphant but
livid. “I’ll keep that appointment now,”
he gasped to me as he sank into a seat,
and he was still breathing heavily when
we alighted. He was stout and
middle-aged, and his comment made me


wonder whether, after all, he derived
as much benefit from his effort as he
thought. Certainly it would be a lucra-
tive conference that would compensate
for the strain he imposed on his heart.
Influenced perhaps by the energy dis-
played by English and American citizens,
our businessman seems to consider that
punctuality claims priority to all per-
sonal considerations. In my opinion the
man who refrains from such violent and
unaccustomed exercise is not likely to
lose either physically or economically.
The bustling, always-in-a-hurry type will
surely lose his time so dearly gained later
in life. —J. M. Pengelley (S.A.).
Unknown Soldiers
In the wars of the past, medals and
mentions in dispatches were generally
won somewhere near the front trenches.
In the wars of the future the field of
glory will include city mansions, service
flats, slum dwellings and suburban back-
yards.
A private letter from England, written
during the recent crisis, shows the kind
of heroism that will be in demand if and
when Armageddon arrives. The writer
is physically frail, musical, literary and
peace-loving. He is wealthy, has no
family ties, and is free to travel any-
where. When an air-raid seemed inevit-
able he refused to turn and flee, and
immediately offered his services to an
anti-gas corps “for the duration.”
There must be thousands of similar
instances of unselfish sacrifice on the
part of civilians of high and low degree,
of all ages and both sexes, and it seems
a pity that their bravery should pass un-
recorded on the scroll of fame.
Experts tell us that the first objective
of future enemies will be to smash the
morale of the man in the street and the
woman in the kitchen. If that be so, it
has been abundantly proved that we are
strong in at least one branch of the
. Defence Department. — Sarg. (S.A.).
Rigid Age Limits
Have they who have shared in the
framing of laws and regulations paused
to consider how stupid and small some
of their enactments are?
Take, for instance, the age limits on
such callings as the navy and the air
force.
Tom Brown, a brilliant youngster and
keen to join the navy, discovers that the
age limit skittles him by a bare week.
Here is lost, perhaps, some Nelson. Then
Bob Smith, who knows a ’plane inside
out and who might be a born flier, finds
himself a month or so over the entrance-
age limit of the air force. A second
Kingsford Smith, possibly.
Why murder the ambitions of youths
because of a few days one way or an-
other?
I submit that a committee of com-
petent examiners be given the power to
use its own discretion. If a youth a
few days or a few months over the age
limit is likely to make a success of his
hoped-for career, let him be passed in.
Nobody will lose by it, I’m sure. — Age
(Q.).
Tests for Voters
So long as this is a democracy (gov-
ernment of, for and by the people), it
follows that to be intelligently governed
we must have intelligent electors.
I suggest therefore that, instead of
forcing apathetic citizens to waste their
own time and that of others at the poll-
ing-booth, we should make the vote a
privilege to be sought after.
Every would-be elector should be re-
quired to pass a suitable intelligence test
before being given a vote. This would
eradicate the “one-two-three-down-the-
ballot-form” voter, and a political can-
didate would have no qualms if his name
began with Z.
In short, the country would be sure
of an intelligent and willing vote, which
would ultimately reflect itself in a
sensible Parliament. — Spooks (N.S.W.).
Too-ready Criticism
At the inevitable tea-party that takes
place in every small Queensland country
town whenever a “visitor from the south”
invades the local precincts, the subject
“modern youth” comes up for criticism.
When recently I was such a visitor, it was
soon clear to my pricked ears that the
discussion was meant to cover a particu-
lar section of the “brighter sparks” of the
village who the night before had staged
a cocktail party. Before a single question
had left my lips I knew the personnel of
the cocktail affair, and learnt that it had
been given by a bunch of amateur-
theatrically-minded lads and lasses to
celebrate their fourth production within
twelve months. The local ambulance, the
benevolent society, the band and some
of the churches had had their treasuries
increased as a result of those produc-
tions.
I put my cup firmly back into its
saucer, took a deep breath and held
the floor. Any town that could boast
of a society of youthfuls who gave their
spare time not only to art but to the
assisting of local organisations had some-
thing to be proud of, I said (all the
head serangs of the local organisations
were among the tea-sippers). How, I
asked, could their ladyships allow one
little celebration “kick-up” to wipe out
the good work of a whole year rendered
by “modern youth” to their town? It’s
not fair, is it? And yet, how often do
we find this too-ready criticism happen-
ing in every branch of life? — Simple
Simon (Q.).
The Advertising Ananias
With all our modern controversial
censorships and bandied pleas for the
protection of the public, one finds it
difficult to understand why advertisers
are offered the freedom of the realm of
public ignorance and imagination.
Looking through some magazines of 50
years ago I was truly amazed at the
Amazing Discovery of a Doctor; and
when I came upon the Wonders of Elec-
tricity could not but wonder at the cure-
all capacity of an electric belt, illustrated
on figures impressively bristling with
electric emanations. Brooding over the
simplicity of my forebears, I turned to
an advertisement in a modern magazine,
which I read in its entirety, despite a
growing nausea as I realised that the
fake testimonial, unnamed eminent scien-
tist and mythical doctor are still with us.
This in an age of science in a young,
progressive country whose people aim at
rational education for all, and nobody
protests!
It is difficult to believe that this old
style of advertisement still “gets across” ;
but since the advertiser’s estimation of
our intelligence is based on his returns
these insults apparently justify them-
selves. Something wrong somewhere. —
S. M. C. (N.S.W.).
The Modem Book
I think most people realise that we
must progress with time, and I feel sure
that in many instances we do, in spite
of the younger generation’s opinion
to the contrary. We watch our young
friends smoking like chimneys and drink-
ing cocktails without a flicker of an eye ;
in fact, we may be guilty of doing some
of those things ourselves. But when it
comes to reading the latest book, which
we are told is so “beautifully written”
r —well, it is difficult to understand what
is beautiful about it or why it was
written. We should know the facts of
life by now, but do we have to read
them, frequently expressed in the crudest
fashion with unnecessary detail? What
should be beautiful is distorted for all
and sundry to read; then we wonder
why our young people disappoint us.
Perhaps they have read one of these
books. However, I expect we shall still go
on hearing, “My dear, have you read
So-and-so? It’s so well written!” —
M. I. R. (Tas.).
These Glamor Girls
In almost every magazine or periodical
one picks up nowadays, the sections
relating to young femininity, especially
when referring to Hollywood’s beauties,
lay particular and sickening stress on the
term “glamor,” an attribute for the pos-
session of which every girl is expected to
strive.
Speaking as an average man who has
outlived his adolescent illusions, I would
prefer a girl who is charming yet natural
and sincere before all the “glamor girls”
the film world has. Give me a dinkum
woman who has room in her head for
other and better things than the desire
for an artificial attraction which may be
bought with cash at any chemist’s shop.
Besides, have a look at your dictionary
to find what is “glamor.” Mine defines
it as “Witchery, or a charm on the eyes,
making them see things differently from
what they really are.” —G. N. (W.A.).
Militia Training
What is the use of raising the militia
to 70,000 men? As an ex-A.I.F. and
militiaman my opinion is that the average
militia unit is virtually untrained.
It is proposed to increase the yearly
training to 18 days instead of 12 as
formerly, but that is totally inadequate.
When a youth or man joins the militia,
he, as a rule, attends every drill to start
with, but when the enthusiasm wears off,
as it usually does after a few months,
he attends only the C.O.’s parades, as
most of the work is the same old
“Slo-o-ope ar-rm-ms,” etc., over and over
again. I am talking of the infantry units
in Sydney; others may be different, but
I doubt it.
In my opinion we need a standing
army of at least 20,000 men, together
with a militia which should have a train-
ing period of at least three months right
off, and then a refresher course of a
week in camp every three months. A
call-up or voluntary strength of 20,000
each year would soon give us an army
that would be much better trained than
the present militia. After serving five
years the men would be retired to the
militia reserve and would be required
to do one week in camp per year until
they had completed another five years.
First-class rifleshots from the clubs
should be attached to the camps to train
the men with weapons.—A. R. (N.S.W.).
Wanted, a “Facts Paper”
“Heretaunga’s” plea (B. 16/11 /’3B) for
honest doubt only covers half the ques-
tion. He reviles those who “know” and,
in that sense, justly ; but why cannot we
“know” in the sincere sense? I want to
know the facts of the European situation,
but how can I find out? From news,
when even the most one-eyed Red will
admit the facts to be distorted? From
individuals who all have some personal
bias? Hitler’s a gangster, Hitler’s a
Messiah ; Chamberlain’s a hero, Cham-
berlain’s a coward. It’s all opinion ; we
have no facts. It seems to me there’s
room for a news issue that prints nothing
but undeniable facts —no editorials, no
“policy,” only cold statements, and let
the reader figure the position out for
himself. Surely there’s a reading public
willing to do this, a public capable of
unassisted, intelligent reasoning?—lcha-
bod (N.SiW.).
G.P.S. Preference
“S.S.” (B. 16/11 /’3B) adjures us to
scrap G.P.S. preference on the ground
that it is based on class distinction. He
apparently believes that a State school
education is regarded as a bar sinister
in after life. A little reflection will
show his attitude to be untenable.
A large number of G.P.S. men, par-
ticularly those who later enter profes-
sions, are State-school boys who have
won a State scholarship and then at-
tended a grammar school or approved
denominational school. They have then
obtained an extension scholarship on sit-
ting for the university junior or inter-
mediate examination, and in some cases
a bursary on sitting for the senior or
leaving examination. Their education
can scarcely be said to be “bought with
parents’ money.”
Of course, the “social” type does exist,
but he obtains very little preference in
any sphere.
In the trades G.P.S. preference is a
myth. This is largely because these
schools do not, as a rule, cater for tech-
nical education; but the matter has a
deeper root than that. By a kind of
inverted snobbishness the average trades-
man regards the G.P.S. product as a
“silvertail,” and despises him accord-
ingly.
A G.P.S. man obtains preference only
in those occupations for which his train-
ing has peculiarly fitted him, and the
measure of his success is his innate
ability, not his social polish. But to say
“How d’you do?”- instead of “Pleased
to meet you” does not stigmatise him —
or the man who employs him—as a snob.
—John M. Cameron (N.Q.).
Wheat and Bread
What a maze! Bounties, flour-tax,
dearer bread, assistance to necessitous
farmers and an unstable wheat market
vie with each other in contributing to
the chaos.
I’m not a farmer, but I can see that
the wheatfarmer’s life is a hard and
exacting grind ; yet, hard as he may toil,
there is nothing in his sweated labor to
compare with the mental strain he experi-
ences in trying to dispose of his product.
He can meet the bad season with a philo-
sophical grin, but the uncertainty of
prices stumps him.
The farmer’s chagrin at selling on a
rising market is influenced by a compara-
tive complex. If all the neighborhood
“fell in,” there would be little regret; but
let Bill Brown next door float off at the
top at 4s. 6d. a bushel and the pill is
hard to take.
With bounties and their inevitable
repercussions in mind, let the Govern-
ment be the wheatbuyer. If it can dis-
pose of it at a profit, credit consolidated
revenue, or set it off against possible
losses; but see that the farmers get their
stabilised price.
It would probably be found in such
a procedure that the location of profit
would no longer be a mystery, and every-
one would be happy.—H. S. R. (N.S.W.).
Native Affairs
There is to be a Native Affairs Branch
controlled by the Department of the In-
terior. The Minister says the Govern-
ment is set on “giving adequate atten-
tion to the question of physical needs
and education of aborigines in the
Northern Territory.” But is it imbued
with the intention of finding exactly what
the physical needs are?
Every Saturday morning various tribes
trail in to Alice Springs for rations sup-
plied by the Government. Rations con-
sist of one smajl bag of flour, some tea,
tobacco and a cake of soap—poor sub-
stitutes for what they have been
deprived of.
What the soap is for is a mystery;
it is hardly to wash the one ancient gar-
ment with which some misguided person
has thought fit to encourage the abo-
riginal to cover his nakedness. Why the
white man ever tried to inspire with
modesty the blackfellow, whose body had
hitherto been cleansed by the elements,
is hard to understand. The aborigines
are not the low race that they are re-
puted to be ; the difference between them
and black people of other countries is
that they are not warlike. Who would
be in such a country as Australia?
Those who live in the extreme interior
are strong, well-developed and intelli-
gent, and should be left alone. It is to
the development of those nearer civili-
sation that the Government should look,
and, whatever its intentions are, may they
at long last be carried out with wisdom
and understanding!— Clothilde (Vic.).
Education for Politicians
It seems curious that, of all the trades
and professions, politics, the one of most
importance to our everyday well-being,
should be open to applicants who have
to pass no prior examination as to
mental ability or physical fitness. A
general-knowledge paper for all seeking
election would help to meet the case, but
it needs to go further and find the appli-
cant’s ability for clear, logical thought
and to grasp problems comprehensively.
As we would have to trust to poli-
ticians to make it law I doubt if it will
ever be ; but if, by the grace of God, it
came to pass it would sound the death-
knell of party politics and so rid us of
a democratic travesty. —S. J. Jackson
(Q.).
Dairying in Gippsland
If “Jackeroo” wishes to make a suc-
cess of farming, he will eschew such ad-
visers as G. F. Young (B. 7/12/’3B).
Land in Gippsland still has, and always
will have, a certain value. At present
the dirtiest and steepest blocks are worth
from 30s. up per acre. Ferns in
Gippsland now, though still a big prob-
lem, take second place to ragwort, which
seeds luxuriantly throughout the hills on
neglected properties.
A farmer can cope with ferns without
the co-operation of neighbors, but rag-
wort-seed travels miles on a windy day,
so that a diligent farmer is at the mercy
of scores of farmers, some of whose
properties are yellow with the stuff.
Even considering that by some miracle
it was possible to do as G. F. Young
suggests in clearing the block, it would
cost at least 15s. an acre to sow down
permanent pasture. Twenty cows, sepa-
rator, buildings, fencing and utensils
could not be placed under £4OO. I have
recently done this, but not on an aban-
doned hill block. Bankers in Gippsland
would shudder if it was even suggested
that they look at a hill block. Farmers’
Debt Adjustment administration has
stopped advances except on gilt-edged
securities.
One man cannot milk 20 cows and
keep 150 acres of land clean without
help. Milking hands are unprocurable
in Gippsland ; so “Jackeroo” would have
to employ paddock labor: installing
milking-machines (as 90 p.c. of Gipps-
land farmers have done) on Mr. Young’s
suggested capital is out of the question.
The wages for labor would have to be
paid out of the revenue from the cows —
approx. £2OO a year. What is left after
“Jackeroo” has paid incidental expenses
would be his very own —working 10
hours a day for three years. Foreigners
in this district are being paid Is. 6d. an
hour.
Wouldn’t it be a lot better for
“Jackeroo” to work 10 hours a day, six
days a week, for others? He would be
doing the same work, and at the end of
three years he should have at least £5OO
in the bank and enough sense to see that
dairying on a one-man property is the
worst way of existing in Australia. —
Rex Roylance (Vic.).


Days of Opportunity
365 in 1939
■
Dame Sybil Thoriidlke.
“Pelmanism gives a mental clarity and
quality of alertness that sees opportuni-
ties and uses them rightly.”
More than half a million men and
women have enrolled for the Pelman
Course of Mind, Memory and Per-
sonality Training. Of these over 40,000
have enrolled with the Institute in
Melbourne.
The Pelman Institute is a world-wide
organisation of 10 years’ standing. Its
headquarters are in Dondon, and its
address in Australia is 3 Gloucester
House, 396 Hinders Dane, Melbourne,
G.l> where it has been established for
30 years.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to The Pelman Institute.
Idege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1933. Paris - - - 1933.
Pelmanism is a real training. It teaches
many things, but it;s purpose is to train
qualities and attributes. This is em-
phasised by every one of the many
-pinions and letters published in ‘‘The
Efficient Mind.” Copies of this book are
posted free. Write or call.
Pelmanism is an all-round train-
ing. It develops agreeably, sinoothlj'
and without apparent effort all the
qualities implied in the term, “effec-
tive personality.” Of these, the
following are outstanding:—
Observation Self-Confidence
Concentration Judgment
Decisiveness Initiative
Will-Power Social Ease
And a good memory for faces,
figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
ff A wise man will make more opportunities
than he finds”—Bacon.
Opportunities are made or they come by chance. It is literally
true that no one knows what each day will bring forth, and every
morning we all face a waking period of 16 or 1 / hours in which
conjunctions of time and place will give us opportunities of making
our lives pleasanter and more fruitful, of showing courage and
resource.
A suitable combination of conditions is actually created by
those who have a strong purpose supported by initiative and power
of original thought. Chance opportunities result from circumstances
outside the control of the individual and are useful to those with
quickened perceptions, the faculty of prompt decision and the
ability to make those movements that bring them and the circum-
stances together.
For if opportunity is round the corner and stays there We must
go round to meet it. If it comes round the corner to us We must
see it and seize it.
The qualities needed to make the most of opportunities are
not confined to any type or class; they are inherent in every man
and woman. That is why society is always in a state of flux, some
going up and others going down. The more important of these
qualities are observation and quick perception, initiative, concen-
tration, self-control, judgment, decision, self-confidence and a good
memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, places and useful
data of all kinds.
Pelmanism develops these qualities. Half an hour a day of
attention to Pelmanism for a few weeks creates in normal people
those habits of body, mmd and will that attract opportunity and
make full use of it.
Write for a copy of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, post
free, and examine fully the claims—and the evidence—that
Pelmanism is a sound and speedy preparation for taking advantage
of the opportunities of each day of 1939. Be one of those to go up.
The Pelman Institute
For the Scientific Development of Mind, Memory and
Personality,
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market Street),
Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
mam
Sir Herbert Barker,
England's Leading Specialist in
Manipulative Surgery.
“It is impossible to speak too highly of
Peinianism.”
Extracts from letters written by a few
of hundreds who have recently prepared
to take advantage of opportunity :
20th November, 1937.
“I have made definite progress. Have
been made Secretary of the Company with
a rise in salary.”
—Accountant (Queensland).
18th November, 1937.
“I have just turned 35 and feel with
confidence that 1 am in a strong position to
face tile ever-existing struggle of life with
an eagerness and spirit for fight which .1
have never felt before.”
—Dentist (N. S. Wales).
Bth July, 1938.
“Pelmanism has completely changed my
mental outlook. I owe a debt of gratitude
to the Pelman Institute and to you
personally.”
—Electrician (N. S. Wales).
4th July, 1938.
“I feel that this lesson (on Inferiority
Consciousness) has been of immense value
to me. I have completely changed my
whole outlook on life.”
—Engineer (Victoria).
20th December, 1937.
“I see and perceive things 1 never saw
or perceived before. My mental capacity is
greater than it was before my serious ill-
ness. My whole life and work is a pleasure.”
—Civil Servant (Tasmania).
3rd July, 1938.
“Self-confidence, a lively interest and an
‘I can’ state of mind have enabled me to
produce tennis form that has surprised my-
self. The credit is due entirely to Pelmanism.”
—Public Servant (A.C.T.).
2nd December, 1937.
“This was the first public occasion on
which I had spoken. I went with the fixed
intention of making a success, and I am
pleased to say that I succeeded beyond ex-
pectation.”
—Police Officer (Victoria).
To the Pelman Institute,
3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post free, a
copy of “The Efficient Mind.”
NAME
ADDRESS
86
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF TOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ĵ
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
No. 2 BOOK NOW ON SALE
The PHANTOM
A PICTURE-SERIAL FULL
OF ADVENTURE,
MYSTERY AND
thrills.
68 Pages for 6d.
(Postage 2d.
extra.)
..•y- S o'
aP°
v^-
*&W
' rt? rt r*
,\\ e a\
# s$
#•’
# s '
. * ' , . • ’ . • • ' vO^ 1
..** A O’ 1
.•• . <^S e ' e
..•• \° A* S^ 6 '
.'5/ </o« iC >'^


ST
'
■
• V,
s&**%#> 1*
£*
Suite: Ed. No. 11559, 10927
Fed. Basin: Rd. No. 10926
The most important
room in the house ...
Gone are the days when the bathroom was merely an adjunct
to the home; to-day it is planned for utmost convenience and
comfort, and Fowler sanitary earthenware contributes liberally
towards that objective.
The bathroom suggestion (illustrated) features Fowler Ware
“Killara” toilet suite, “Bellevue” pedestal basin, Fowler Ware
wall recess fittings-—sponge and soap holder, toothbrush holder,
paper-reel holder, Gargoyle faucets, also Fowler floor and
wall tiles.
Modern designs, uniform quality and finish plus functional
perfection unhold the widespread high reputation of Fowler
sanitary earthenware, which is manufactured in colours as well
as white.
Leading hardware and builders" suppliers throughout the
Commonwealth stock Fowler Ware. We will be pleased to
supply the name of your nearest supplier.
Products of the
FOWLER POTTERIES
BATHROOM AND KITCHEN
SANITARY EARTHENWARE
HOSPITAL AND GENERAL
ENAMELLED FIRECLAY WARE
FLOOR AND WALL TILES
TERRA COTTA WARE
MANUFACTURED BY
R. FOWLER LIMITED
Products of the
FOWLER POTTERIES
SALT GLAZED STONEWARE
INSULATORS
HOUSEHOLD CROCKERY AND
HOTELWARE
BRIST OLWARE
CHEMICAL WARE
Manufacturers of Ceramics for over a century.
Administrative Offices, Showrooms and Potteries:
FITZROY STREET, MARRICKVILLE, N.S.W.
Tbomastown, Victoria. Brisbane, Queensland.
J. M. SMITH PTY., LTD.
Rockhampton, Q'land.
MADDEN & JOHNSTON,
Townsville, Q’land.
Interstate Agents:
SELTH & CO., LTD.
i Street, Adelaide.
A. BOND BARKER & CO.,
William Street, Perth.
W. H. HUTHNANCE & CO.,
Grey Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Stop That Tap Dripping!
ristered Number 9425.
TAP WASHER
PERFECT NON-DRIP—EASY TO FIT-
LONG LIFE !
Slightest pressure cuts off water supply.
gin. and fin., THREE for 6d.
lin., TWO for 6d.
If unobtainable locally, three Washers on a card
giving full instructions’ will be mailed on receipt
of six penny stamps. State size of lap. |in. or
fin., Three for 6d. lin., Two for 6d.
Holdtite, G.P.O. Box 1389 J, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
fy.v
ft
v*
Mr*
7S3iss&
VNIWD
Tea Sets
Dinner Sets
After-dinner
Coffee Sets
with
Electric Table
Lamps to Match
Your Next Gift: Make It Shelley
Send 3d. in stamps to cover cost of postage and packing
for beautifully, colored catalogue and name of nearest
distributor.
T. W. HEATH PTY., LTD., G.P.O. Box 1389 J, Sydney,
New South Wales.
[~non-poisonousi
DURALASTIC
ZINC PAINT,
18i
Gallon
TiventV'six
beautiful
shades
“WHITE MILL”
MILL WHITE WATER PAINT
41b. 71b. 141 b. 281 b. 561 b.
2/3 3/9 6/6 12/- 21/-
HARBUTT PAINT PIY. LTD.
Alexandria, N.S.WT
Brisbane Agents : Crouch, Connah & Gordon Pty., Ltd.
