

'■ ' “
Killil!
■hbh wm
■■■■llll
rs
1
m
\
SI
m
l
\
i
til
m
m
tat
m
111
*
:
if:
-
i
if
in
;
mm
Iffl
■I
wm
i ; .; - :
ym
ii ■ f
f * •;• w
ij|lill
i
IS
nm
The most modern of all floor coverings—Feltex—is now
displayed for your inspection in an appropriately modern
setting—the new Feltex Flouse, 261 George Street, Sydney.
Here visitors to Sydney will be able to see, in all the beauty
of their true colour values, a complete range of plain and
marbled Feltex floor coverings.
An experienced interior decorator will help in any furnishing
problems—entirely without obligation on your part.
Feltex will not be sold direct to the public at Feltex House,
but is obtainable from every reliable furnishing
store in the Commonwealth.
There is no similar floor covering just as good as Feltex, which
has been developed to meet the modern requirements of wall-
to-wall floor covering.
Feltex is chemically treated to render it mothproof for life.
It offers colour, warmth, silence underfoot, durability and
economy.
Feltex is a branded and nationally advertised product . . .
advertised goods have to measure up to highest standards or
they cease to exist ... do not accept substitutes.
INSIST ON GENUINE FELTEX LOOK FOR THE NAME
The Bulletin
Communism's Greatest Hope
Vol. 60. —No.' 3100.
Wednesday, July 12, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
£24-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
im
UUtf
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
__ CUT HERE AND MAIL
~r send. vnthon.t obligati""; V nvv New Frrr ' 16 PP' ,
I'F.NMANMtir Prospectus explaining V"" r Muscular Movement. System of
Writ in a . os advertised in the Sydney Bui.IiBTIN.
My So.me .
My Address
8.8. 139 •
The Red Page
X-RAYING THE POET.
The difficulty of writing about Herbert Read’s
theories of poetry in his Collected Essays (Faber; per
Angus and Robertson) is that Read himself is writ-
ing about them. From a critic preoccupied with
form and definition some clear-cut statement might
be expected, but Read here is groping towards
values rather than laying down principles. He has
opinions, but they are not co-ordinated.
To expect more is perhaps unfair to the author,
for these essays, lacking order in the collected edi-
tion, were each a coherent whole when first published,
and the book, except by inference, is not intended to
define a system of criticism. Exactness of definition
is in any case difficult when he has to deal with such
elusive matters as “classicism” and “romanticism,”
and Read’s own intellectual honesty adds to his
troubles by leading him to state the objections to his
views so enthusiastically that the reader is likely to
reach the opposite conclusion from the one Read
desires. His arguments against the intrusion of
psycho-analysis into literary criticism, for instance,
are more convincing than his refutation of them.
In spite of his inconsistencies, however, and in
spite of the absence of a continuous thread of thought,
one can at least discover in the essays what Read
wants from poetry, and in doing so approach his
conception of the ideal poet or the ideal poem.
Beginning with his observations on the nature of the
poet, the trail leads to the phenomenon of inspira-
tion, the method by which inspiration is retained, the
form which the poem is to take, the rhythm and lan-
guage to be employed and so to the complete poem
and its final worth in the light of Read’s essay on
criticism. But, as Read himself is careful to point
out, the perfect poem so composed won’t be any
good, for major art, though modified by tradition,
makes its own rules.
The discussion of the nature of ths poet at once
plunges Read into deep waters from which only Freud
and Jung can extricate him. He quotes with approval
Eliot’s “only those who have personality and emo-
tions know what it means to want to escape from
these things,” and Keats’s remark that the poet’s essen-
tial attribute is his “negative capability.” The poet,
he finds, is fluid, receptive, a harp struck by the winds.
When the elusive personality hardens into character,
unless the inhibitions implied in that process cause
an outbreak in another direction, the poet is lost.
He offers an interesting theory of the intermittency
of genius—Gray’s solitary poem of importance,
Milton’s 25-year silence, Wordsworth’s lapse into dull-
ness —as the result of this attack of character on per-
sonality. As for the poet from the psycho-analytical
viewpoint, he is a potential neurotic who is able to
sublimate his phantasies.
But when inspiration is considered, analysis is
not so easy. As Freud himself admitted, the artist
has the “mysterious” power of co-ordinating his phan-
tasies. Freud, and Read with him, says that inspira-
tion springs from the “id,” which, in contrast to the
practical “ego” and the moral “super-ego,” is “the
obscure, inaccessible part of our personality.... a
cauldron seething with excitement.” The exploration
is fascinating to follow; but there, as so often else-
where, all psycho-analysis can do is to find a new
way of saying that inspiration is—inspiration.
Descriptions by practising poets of the genesis of
their works, despite a picturesqueness that may offend
the scientific mind, are as accurate as anything that can
be said by the psycho-analysts: Read quotes Keats
again on the abandonment of the personality to im-
pressions, and borrows from Rilke the excellent dis-
tinction, “Verses are not simply feelings; they are
experiences.” The poet, says Keats, allows impres-
sions to beat upon him; then, continues Rilke,
“experiences turn to blood within us, to glance and
gesture, nameless and no longer to be distinguished
from ourselves” ; and so, Read sums up, “the experi-
ences of such a receptive nature become a compost
of his blood and being, and only then emerge fused
in the poetic word.” Read could have quoted here
Rilke’s poem in which, as Eliot complained of the
burden of personality, the German mystic cried out
against the strain of always becoming the object he
contemplates—crowd or landscape, person or universe.
This, of course, is the romantic conception of
poetry. Read says somewhere that his wish is “to
rehabilitate romanticism,” and he will not admit that
the wit-writing of Pope and Dryden—verses deliber-
ately constructed as opposed to poems that make them-
selves —is poetry. He has his own terminology to
replace “classic” and “romantic,” preferring to use
“abstract” for the one and “organic” for the other,
and, continuing the theory enunciated in the analysis
of the poet’s nature, he says that organic poetry—
“genuine” poetry —arises from the personality, abstract
verse from the character. The classification is useful,
but its practical application remains almost as diffi-
cult as the classic-romantic test. Is Read’s own “End
of a War,” because it may have arisen from deep and
sustained agony, to be described as organic; or,
because it has somewhat the appearance of conscious
moralising about the Great War, is it abstract? As
Eliot found in trying to discuss classic and romantic,
the ultimate decision as to a poem’s worm, where
the technique is adequate, is a matter of personal emo-
tion. But at least one can agree with Read that works
felt to be genuine poetry, as far apart as the “Ode
to a Nightingale” and “The Waste Land,” can be
fitted in with his conception of organic art.
On the actual composition of organic poetry,
when the intimation from the most secret lair of per-,
sonaiity seeks to break into words and communicate
itself to others, Read is particularly interesting. “I
can aver that all the poetry 1 have written which I
continue to regard as authentic poetry,” he says, “was
written immediately, instantaneously and in a con-
dition of trance.” The poet’s task is to hold the trance
state, or the urgent memory of it, long enough to get
his poem on to paper. Read cites the famous “Kubla
Khan” trance of Coleridge, when “a person from
Porlock,” interrupting the poet, robbed the world of
the unwritten portion of that puzzling masterpiece.
He quotes, too, D. H. Lawrence’s ingenious apology
for vers libre, “in free verse we look for the insur-
gent naked throb of the instant moment free
verse has its own nature, it is neither star nor pearl,
but instantaneous like plasm.”
For Lawrence this was true; the love-poems
especially were the insurgent moment; there was “no
time-gap between the image and its verbal equivalent.”
But to assume with Read that such spontaneous and
violent utterances were poetry is another matter.
There is no time-gap between the hunger of a child
and its bawling, no time-gap between the pain of a
cat one has trodden on and its wail of dismay. If
the expression of the naked instant is the test, then a
bull bellowing on a spring evening is declaiming vers
libre. What more was Lawrence as a poet? He could
be deeply exciting—stark emotion is beautiful itself —
but surely the whole test of a poet is his ability to
sustain the passion of the moment until he has beaten
it into such verbal patterns as are best calculated to
preserve it for all time.
Read himself has said as much in another place
where he discovers that the long poem is the final
test of the poet’s greatness. “Paradise Lost” may
well have been evoked by one sudden perception of
the dark splendor of Lucifer, but Milton is called a
genius not because he hurled on to paper the naked
violence of that moment, but because he could hold
to his vision for hundreds of lines of controlled in-
tensity.
Read calls in the psycho-analysts again to prove
that the poetic trance is very close to the ordinary
dream-state. Examples of the extraordinary relation-
ship of poetic imagery to the symbolism of dreams
could have been given here, J)ut he resists the temp-
tation. He points out that the dream-state is not
complete; that the urgent declaration of the “id” is
modified by the “super-ego” imposing its moral ideas,
and by the “ego” dealing with the practical details of
technique.
To consider Read’s opinions on the mechanics of
verse-making in the light of his conclusion that the
real rhythm of contemporary life is to be found in
the ballet and in jazz would not do justice to the accu-
rate thinking from which he proceeded to so inaccu-
rate a statement. The ballet, beautiful though it can
be, is at the best mercifully remote from the turmoil
of this age, and at the worst is as “decadent” as any
softness that oozed out of the ’nineties ; jazz is the
hysteria of the negro, and it hardly needs the special
knowledge of the psycho-analyst to account for its
popularity or to assess its limitations as a mirror of
the spirit of the age. And to say that the true rhythm
is to be found only in “a minute quantity of modern
poetry” is far too sweeping a generalisation. Some
valid contemporary feeling, even if it is merely the
comment upon the times of “escape” literature, is to
be found in any given poem. Poets may be for-
gotten because they express the spirit of an age too
faithfully ; the era passes and their works are “dated.”
There is no quarrelling with Read when he says
“to build up poetry with dead idioms is like living a
life of dead habits and obsolete manners,” but his
suggestion elsewhere that the jargon of modern
physics would make a useful addition to the poet’s
vocabulary is open to question. Writers, it is true,
have taught people to use new idioms as painters
have taught, them to observe their environment, but
William Empson’s observations from the laboratory,
because they are not part of the living language, ring
as false as do some of Day Lewis’s notes from the
factory. To his dictum that dead language is always
feeble, Read might have added the corollary, equally
true, that artificial modernity is vulgar. He could
have done so without qualms, for he pays homage
to tradition, admits the weakness of much vers libre,
and, in the “particular studies” which follow the
essays on poetry, says wisely that to be influenced by
Hopkins is valuable, to imitate him fatal.
The laboriousness of his own book tends lo
refute his final point, that has an im-
portant contribution to make to criticism. The method
can be useful from the moral viewpoint when a poet
offers political advice, but the tracing, say, of Brooke’s
most famous war sonnet to its sources does not affect
its merits as a poem. As Read himself says, analysis
is quite likely to “spoil things,” but it cannot explain
away the mystery of poetry. A point he might have
made is that exploration of the hidden motives of
critics might be a more profitable contribution to
criticism as a science than the psycho-analysing of
the poets.
The great objection to psycho-analysis is that it
is longwinded. It has pretensions to accuracy, but
since it admits an ultimate mystery, the jargon ot the
consulting-room is perhaps not more but less accu-
rate in spirit than the older semi-religious terminology.
The essence of many pages of Read's speculations is
contained in his short quotation from Plato—“ All
good poets, epic as well as lyric, compose their beauti-
ful poems not by art, but because they are inspired
and possessed.”
Journey Through Persia.
W. V. Emanuel’s The Wild Asses: A Journey
Through Persia (Cape) comes like a companion piece
to Mrs. Fullerton’s To Persia for Flowers, recently
noticed on the Red Page as a delightful book of travel.
The Wild Asses is a long and—because it is so well
written —exciting account of an unconventional jour-
ney through a country that so far has not heard of
the species tourist.
The author travelled with a mixed party of stu-
dents —ten men and five women —who set out to see
Persia on the cheap. They are all in the book, from
Uncle Fritz, who knew everything, to Harold, who for-
got everything. The oddly-assorted party was kept
mixing by a redistribution every morning: from a
hatful of strips of paper each member drew his seat
and companion for the day. The author doesn’t let
the personal side of the story run away with the book.
The Persia of yesterday, the Iran of to-day, is his sub-
ject, and he gets on with it. Persia, like Australia, is
a country of great distances.
The clear light, the enormous views, and above all
the incomparable purity of the air make travel in Iran
an exhilarating experience, like sailing over calm seas in
a small yacht. The sense of space and freedom which
the Iranian landscape produces in the European leads
to an almost unshakable serenity, in spite of the great
heat and dust and all the minor, but so often under-
estimated, discomforts of travel. Iran, as a wise
visitor has said, is a country made for travelling onwards.
The immense empty distances, the rarity of travellers or
houses, lull the mind into an almost Yogi-like trance,
while the ever-new horizons, constantly unfolding like
the fluttering leaves of a book, constantly revealing
fresh pleasures of shape and color, work on the vision
as a great music on the ear, and move the mind s eye
to grasp the indefinable ultimate sense of country, which
is perhaps the greatest of all joys of travel.
In its natural features Persia is immemorial, a
land burdened with antiquity, but in its government it
is brand-new. The State is totalitarian ; the King,
Reza Shah Pahlavi, was an army officer of obscure
origin who seized the crown on a wave of popular
enthusiasm from the absentee Ahmed Shah in 1925
and proceeded to remake the country. England and
Russia were each tugging at Persia as if it were a
Christmas cracker from which they hoped a valuable
gift would fall when it burst in two. The new Shah
made the independence of his kingdom his first con-
sideration. He declared all foreign trade a Government
monopoly, and used the power thus captured to elude
the influence of both the powerful rivals. When he
was forced to seek foreign capital to develop his
country he doled out concessions in small parcels.
When in 1928 he embarked on the construction of
Iran’s first big railway he divided the contracts be-
tween nine nations. Divide and rule! Australia sup-
plied the sleepers.
On the traditional pattern of old Persia he is
forcing the design of modern Iran. Westernisation is
going on apace; the women have been unveiled by
edict; even details of dress are regulated by Gov-
ernment ordinance. When a distinguished Englishman
expostulated with the Shah for abolishing the attrac-
tive peasant costumes, he replied: “It is not my am-
bition that Iran should merely be picturesque for the
amusement of foreign tourists. For ten centuries the
Persians have been picturesque; now they are to be
progressive instead.” His heir goes in for Youth
movements. If the people don’t like it they don’t
say so.
That is the general background of the book, age-
old Persia and bright-new Iran —a state of nature and
a state of mind. The journey winds like a river across
them both. It begins, as all such journeys must, in a
Russian train, whose tedium is relieved with at least
one good story. In Russia the equality of the sexes
is studiously observed. When it comes to sleeping
apartments on a train no distinctions are drawn ; so
one night an English lady of the highest respectability
was horrified to see whiskers on the pillow of the
opposite berth. She rushed into the corridor scream-
ing “I want the berth-controller.”
The train crosses the Caucasus and winds round
Mount Ararat at dawn: —-
There stood Ararat, her snows still grey in the hall-
light, her vast bulk rising from the plain so steeply
and so close that it filled the whole window space.
Little Ararat, 4000 ft. lower, nestled at her side; no
other mountains were to be seen; the one majestic
cone dominated the view. As we looked, silent with
admiration, the rose-red light of the Alpengliihen crept
up her flanks, turning their pale greys and blues to
flushing purples and reds. The great shadowed crevasses
near the flat peak changed to blood-red gashes in
what was rapidly becoming a mountain of white. Inc
light on the summit, which for a few minutes had ,
been glowing with all the soft and secret colors of
mother-of-pearl, slowly went out, or rather lost itself
in the dazzling brilliance of the snowfields. The inter-
vening plain, huge and featureless, flooded with light
from the swiftly-rising sun; its unbroken golden-yellow
was cut in a sharp line by the edge of the mountain s
still-darkened base. Then the clear-cut fine grew
blurred, the red faded from the sky and the rubies
ceased to sparkle in the crevasses. Dawn had come over
Ararat.
The travellers visited Teheran, trod gingerly the
thin crust of fanaticism when they were shown the
Holy Shrine at Meshed, took the golden road to
Samarkand, crossed the Great Salt Desert, went to
Persepolis and famous Isfahan and made a sortie over
{“Red Page” continued on page 8 .)


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” —and in every act.
THE SENIOR STORE"
m
*
M
vm.
MC
n;
x>
mm-
N
V
ANTHONY HORDERNS
I FAMOUS LOW PRIC
■Mr, «nuine
Ha lt
dsf
76 UNDERWEAR
Natural all wool under-
wear, light weight, soft
warm finish. Under-
shirts with short sleeves,
and underpants to ankle.
Size 34 to 44 chest or
5'3
waist. Anthony Horderns' Regular Prices,
7/6. SALE PRICE, garment 5/3
19 6 FUR FELT HATS
Men's pure Fur Felt Hats,
snap brim styles, silk
lined, light, medium and
dark grey, fawn and
brown. Anthony Horderns'
156
Regular Price r 19/6
SALE PRICE I” 15/6
Use
Our
D.P.S.
s
N : Hi
S'6 Business Shirts
Made in ' our own work-
rooms from a reliable
wearing British poplin, fit-
ted with V cased front, and
two detached matching
69
collars with supports. Size 14 to 18in. neck.
Neat striped designs of blue, fawn, grey.
Anthony Horderns' Regular Price ... 8/6
SALE PRICE 6/9
611 WORK SHIRTS
Work Shirts that will stand
up to a hard day's work,
made from a British mater-
ial, double sewn seams
and with collar and pocket
66
attached, Heather shades and blue.
Sizes 14| to 19in. neck. Anthony Hor-
derns' Regular Price 1 : 6/11
SALE PRICE 6/6
96 UNDERWEAR
Natural all wool underwear
in a seasonable medium
winter weight, reliable in
wear. Can be had in short
sleeve undershirts or un-
6ii
derpants ankle length. Size 34 to 44 chest
or waist. . Anthony Horderns' Regular
Price, 9/6. SALE PRICE, garment 6/11
26 HALF HOSE AT
Fancy Cashmere Half Hose,
all wool except ornament,
striped and overcheck designs
on Blue, Grey, Brown or Navy.
Sizes 10 to 12 inches. Anthony
\'9
Horderns' Regular Price : 2/6
SALE PRICE, pair 1/9
35'- DRESSING GOWNS
All wool dressing gowns in
winter weight tweed, latest
overcheck designs on grey,
fawn, navy, royal or brown
with contrast collars, cuffs
and pockets. Silk cord and
246
tassel to match. Size 36 to 44 chest. Price . 357-
SALE PRICE 24/6
mm
■- '
m
m
176, 196 CARDIGANS
Fancy Jacquard Cardigans, all
wool, V neck, new season's
patterns on Grey, Blue Grey, or
Fawn grounds. These are out-
standing value. Sizes 36 to 42
inch chest. Anthony Horderns'
126
Regular Prices
SALE PRICE .
17/6, 19/6
12/6
9 Men’s Wear—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight
paid to all railway stations in N.S.IF. and seaports in
the Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD
POSTAL ADDRESS: BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY PHONE: M 2401 DAY OR NIGHT


The Young Wentworth
J.H.M. ABBOTT
DRAWINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
THE IRON COLLARS.
\ES,” said Mr. William Charles Wentworth to
\ / his friend and journalistic partner, Dr. Robert
y Wardell, “he’s done it now—done it with a
C vengeance. I think we’ve got him, Bob. 1
do, indeed. We’ve got him by the short hairs, you
and I and ‘Monitor’ Hall—we’ll twist that cold-
blooded martinet until we’ve turned him inside out.
We’ll make him sweat blood. General Darling will
be sorry he ever came to New South Wales.”
“Damme, and so he ought to be! ” returned the
doctor heatedly. “Nothing so vilely tyrannical has
ever been perpetrated here before, and heaven knows
the colony’s never been short of atrocities.”
“But did you appreciate the full cruelty of the
thing? Those iron collars were, of course, nothing
much at all. Not nearly so terrible as they looked.
But the chains to each ankle! Too short to permit
the men to stand erect, or to stretch out their bodies
when they lie down to sleep. My God a devilish
device! Darling may be a stupid martinet of the
military sort, but he’s been trained as a gentleman,
and ought to be one.”
“No one but a short-sighted fool could have per-
mitted such a public exhibition of medieval brutality
—for his own sake, his reputation’s if for
nothing else. By God, I’ll pillory him! 111 write
such a leading article as has never been set up in type
before in New South Wales. I’ll show the callous
ruffian how his damnable cruelty affects decent-minded
people. Go, and leave me to it now and come dine
with me this evening, when we’ll discuss the matter
further?”
Wentworth rose to his feet, and stood a moment
by the window, gazing thoughtfully at the traffic, in-
congruous and heterogeneous, ebbing and flowing in
the street outside. A chain-gang guarded by soldiers
with fixed bayonets, shovels and picks over their
rounded and weary shoulders, shuffled the dust in the
roadway a bullock-dray with a high load of hay,
two young officers of the garrison driving tandem in a
lofty gig; three coalscuttle-bonneted ladies, in
muslins and ginghams, walking delicately in a row ;
a drunken seaman reeling past them ; a dogfight out-
side the public-house at the corner—all the varied life
of the little seaport village of Sydney in 1826.
“All right, Bob—l’ll be at Petersham by five
o’clock. But be careful. I don’t want to see you in
the stocks, or the paper suppressed.”
THE matter which gave rise to the vengeful wrath
of the doctor-editor of the “Australian”—estab-
lished in Sydney in 1824—was perhaps the most extra-
ordinary public spectacle that has ever been staged
in Sydney, before or since.
When Lieutenant-General Ralph Darling came to
Sydney as Governor in the beginning of 1826 he was
not long in discovering that there was no bed of roses
for his enjoyment on the shores of Port Jackson. He
arrived with the praiseworthy intention of conducting
his administration in the strictest impartiality and
on the most benevolent lines. But he didn’t know his
New South Wales. There was a plenitude of trouble
to be faced, and the colony was seething with unrest.
A group of native-born Australians, led by the
young barrister and newspaper-proprietor Wentworth,
were clamoring for freer political and judicial con-
ditions, and seeking as allies all who had grievances
against the existing system of government. The
“Emancipists,” the free immigrants who had a little
capital, discontented soldiers, the terribly oppressed
convict class, the merchants and the shopkeepers —all
these they regarded as clay to be moulded in their
hands. And as bad luck had it for Darling he became
involved almost immediately after his arrival in
troubles that embittered the whole of his five years of
office.
Eighteen-twenty-six was a year of depression
which had succeeded a period of overspeculation in
land and stock, and everybody, including the soldiers
of the Imperial garrison, had got into a way of think-
ing their own lot even worse than that of the “Gov-
ernment men” who were “doing time.” Many or them
had deliberately committed offences in order to change
their social condition for the better by becoming con-
victs. This sort of thing was too much for a Penin-
sular veteran with Wellingtonian traditions of disci-
pline, and Darling set about stopping it with stern
determination.
Two private soldiers, one John Sudds and a cer-
tain William Thompson, who had one day walked into
a shop and ostentatiously stolen a roll of calico, even-
tually receiving as punishment the seven years’ trans-
portation their souls yearned for, gave the Governor
his first opportunity to put into effect his scheme for
overcoming the trouble.
As Commander-in-Chief of the Forces, he varied
their sentence by substituting for transportation to
Port Macquarie a term of seven years in a road-gang,
at the end of which period they were to rejoin their
regiment. And he did more than that. The entire
garrison was paraded in the barrack-square, imme-
diately over the position of the present underground
railway station at Wynyard, and there, to the accom-
paniment of the fifes and drums playing the tradi-
tional “Rogue’s March,” the culprits were publicly
degraded. Then their necks were adorned with spiked
iron collars, from which chains stretched to their
ankles, so shortened that they could not straighten
their bodies.
Sudds had been brought out of hospital to play
his part in this cheerful ceremony, and, a couple of
days later, was so inconsiderate of the Governor as
to give up the ghost. Since an autopsy revealed no
disease, it was wrathfully maintained that he had
been killed by General Darling’s cruel treatment. And
then the autocrat reaped a whirlwind which never
ceased to blow throughout his term of office.
MR. WENTWORTH and Dr. Warded dined that
evening at the doctor’s house, together with Mr.
Edward Smith Hall, proprietor of the “Monitor.”
These three represented the “free” press of New South
Wales, the “Sydney Gazette” being regarded merely
as a Government organ subsisting upon the favor and
advertisements of authority.
“We will, between us,” said Mr. Hall, “give this
fellow Darling such a hell of a time as he’ll never get
over. I don’t care what they do to me —I’ll make
him pay for it. And I’m sure you’ll back me up.”
“You may depend on that,” responded Went-
worth. “He’ll not find life worth living from now on.
I’m going to dissolve our partnership, Bob, and then
you and Hall can go for the beggar up to the limit,
whilst I’ll be free to conduct your defence in the crop
of libel actions which is bound to spring up. Out of
all this we may at least hope to gain some good for
our country. We’ll vindicate the fact that the people
of Australia have just as many rights as Englishmen.
We’ll give Darling hell.”
And they did.
Wentworth wrote a letter of impeachment to
the home authorities against Darling, and attacked
him violently in the “Australian.” The “commuta-
tion” of the sentence on Sudds and Thompson, he
said, was merely an aggravation. The irons, even if
they only weighed 131 b., as the Governor maintained,
and not the 401 b. that other people thought they did,
were quite illegal instruments of torture. If the death
of the unhappy Sudds was the result of this treatment
ordered by the Governor —who had refused to per-
mit an inquest—then Darling was undoubtedly guilty
of manslaughter. Warded and Hall had no mercy.
In issue after issue of their journals they continued
to denounce the Governor. Then Darling added to
his first tyrannous mistake a whole series of others,
when he attempted to muzzle the offending journals.
He had a law promulgated which made it illegal
to publish newspapers without a license, which was
to be issued every year at the Governor’s sole dis-
cretion. A stamp duty of 4d. a copy was to be im-
posed on every paper sold. But he reckoned with-
out Chief Justice Forbes, who gave it as his opinion
that the proposed measure was not according to the
common law of England, and must be abandoned.
Darling then evolved another plan. A law was passed
by the nominee Council against blasphemous and
seditious libel, with banishment from the country after
two convictions. Signed by printer or publisher,
copies of every issue of any newspaper had to be
deposited with the Colonial Secretary.
But the strictest measures did not daunt either
Dr. Wardell or Edward Smith Hall- They continued
The little seaport village of
Sydney presented an incon-
gruous and heterogeneous
picture of life in 1826.


to say what they pleased about
Darling and his administration,
were duly prosecuted, and
always defended by Went-
worth. He was fearless and
powerful in his . appeal against
their vindictive prosecution.
“The colony,” he said,
“has for a long time labored
under arbitrary government,
but it has been reserved for
this Governor to deal in such
conduct as the present. You
are expected to fawn, to
cringe, to owe your very
breaths to the authorities; and
your compliance will doubt-
less ensure you a more cordial
expression of the Government
countenance To find for
the Governor, however, will
draw upon you the contempt
of every honest man.” Hall
was fined £lOO, but Wentworth had the verdict quashed
on appealing to the Full Court.
That was not all. Seven verdicts were subse-
quently given against Hall, and they cost him three
years in gaol and hundreds of pounds in fines. It
was a long and bitter fight that arose out of the iron
collars worn by Privates Sudds and Thompson, but
in the end the Governor lost.
In 1829, a libel action against Hayes, the then
editor of the “Australian,” stirred Wentworth to
protest so bitterly against the injustice,of trial by mili-
tary jury that Mr. Justice Stephen was in favor of
granting a new one. The other Judges, Forbes and
Dowling, overruled Stephen, but a failure of the
Bench to agree on so important a question could
not be disregarded by the Home Government. In
1830 Darling was ordered to extend trial by jury, and
after several outstanding successes by Wentworth in
the courts the unpopular Governor was recalled. The
“Australian” and the “Monitor” had won the battle.
DUT what of the two men who were in the first
place responsible for this long and bitter con-
troversy?
Private Sudds, as we have seen, was dead of his
iron collar, and until a certain afternoon half a decade
later no one knew what had become of Private Thomp-
son. So far as Mr. Wentworth and Dr. Wardell were
concerned, he had passed entirely out of Australian
history. There is no record of him until the day on
which Mr. Wentworth roasted an ox whole down at
Vaucluse in celebration of the vanquished Governor
Darling’s departure from New South Wales.
Wentworth, with possibly not the best of taste —
though it is hard to judge now, over a century later —
made the occasion of the Governor’s departure a gala
day. By advertisement in the press which Darling
had persecuted so venomously he invited any of
the citizens of Sydney who cared to accept his invi-
tation down to his estate of Vaucluse, near Watson’s
Bay, where an ox would be roasted and games held
as a sign of the colony’s relief at getting rid of Gov-
ernor Darling.
Towards the close of the afternoon, Wentworth,
Wardell and Hall retired from the scene of the revels
up to that big flat grey rock, a little north-eastward
of Vaucluse House, where Wentworth loved to sit in
the evenings contemplating the tranquil beauty of
the long stretch of harbor running westward past
Shark and Garden Islands and little Pinchgut to Ball’s
Head and distant Cockatoo.
Early in the afternoon they had seen the Sophia
Jane, the newly-arrived and marvellous steamship,
churning the blue waters with her big paddles, and
belching smoke from the tall frilled funnel, as she
towed to sea the vessel that was carrying General
Darling from the land he had afflicted. Ironical
cheers had floated out across the harbor as the stately
ship, her sails loosening, passed between Bottle and
Glass and George’s Heights.
“Well, Bob,” said Wentworth as he lit a cigar,
“and you, too, Ned Hall, thank God for this day. It
may seem a mean thing to say, now that the fellow's
beaten, but I’ve not felt truly happy before since that
morning when we saw those two soldiers fitted with
Darling’s iron collars. When I took up their case I
did so not so much in consequence of its own merits
as because I conceived that the rights of the colonists
were outraged in their persons, and that the next step
would be to outrage them in the person of civilians.”
“And truly so, Will,” said Mr. Hall reflectively,
“I wonder what Sudds and Thompson would think,
were they here to-day? Thompson’s most probably
alive, somewhere" or other. I’d like to see him.”
“Then you may do so, sir.”
Startled, the three gentlemen turned towards
where the strange voice had broken in upon their
conversation. A tall, gaunt, almost cadaverous man,
shabbily clad in rusty black, had stepped from behind
a banksia shrub, and stood looking at them.
“And who the deuce are you, then, my man?”
asked Dr. Wardell, after a moment or two of aston-
ished silence.
“I am —or I was —Private William Thompson, of
His Majesty’s 40th Regiment.”
“Good God!” exclaimed Wentworth, rising to
his feet from the old grey rock.
There was a pause, whilst they regarded the man
with wonderment in their faces. Presently Wentworth
Startled, the three gentlemen turned
towards where the strange voice had
broken in upon their conversation. A
tall, gaunt figure, shabbily clad in rusty
black, had stepped from behind a banksia
shrub, and stood looking at them.
addressed him. “My dear fellow —but you must be
delighted to know that the cruel tyrant who punished
you has at last been broken.”
Thompson shook his head as he regarded them
gravely. “No, sir. Ido thank God for them cruel
irons, and poor Jack Sudds’s death, an’ all the hard
sufferin’ I went through on the roads. It done me good.
It made a man an’ a Christian o’ Bill Thompson,
who’d on’y been a drunken, fightin’, blasphemin’ sojer
afore it ’appened. I do thank General Darling from
the bottom o’ me ’eart. But for ’im I’d ha’ kep’ on as
I was. I’d not ha’ foun’ grace. I can say from the
bottom o’ me ’eart, Gobbless Ralph Darling. That’s
all I got to say, sir. Except I thank all yous gents
for all your sympathy wi’ me an’ poor Jack Sudds.
I foffered yous up ’ere for to say that, sir. An’ now,
sirs, I’ll wish ye all good hevenin’.”
He turned and disappeared in the scrub before
any of them could find a word to say. At last Dr.
Wardell broke the amazed silence that had descended
upon the group. “By the Lord, Wentworth—but he's
a better gentleman and Christian than any of us!”
CONDITIONS FAVORABLE
BY G.C.B.
WHEN I slips around to Mr. Pomfrey’s office
just after he ’ad beat old Andy Fish for
alderman, to remind ’im of a promise he ’ad
made to me durin’ the election, I finds that
conditions wasn’t wot you might call favorable. He
was sittin’ at ’is desk glarin’ at a little visitin’ ticket
in ’is ’and growlin’ to ’imself bad-tempered.
“Confound Mandel’s Movies! ” he ses, slingin’
the ticket at me. “Their representative ’as just called
about a site for a new picture show; but from wot
he wants at the price he wants to pay he must think
I’m a charity organisation instead of a estate agent.”
“Very disappointin’, losin’ business like that, Mr.
Pomfrey,” I ses sympathetic. “Still, I might be able
to put a bit of business in your way soon. Mrs.
Raggles’s brother-in-law, wot’s terrible well-off, is
lookin’ for a ’ouse ’ere, and I’ll point out that
you’re”
“It ain’t the business I’m thinkin’ of, Raggles,”
ses Mr. Pomfrey. “This rumor about another show
’as started Miss Pilkington off again. She’s goin’ to
start a Children’s Culture Club in opposition, thinkin’
she can turn the kids’ minds to ’igher things and teach
’em to recite poetry. And wot’s more,” he ses,
breathin’ ’eavy, “she’s persuaded my missus that I’d
be a excellent instructor.”
“I quite agrees,” I ses tackful. “After all, you’re
a well-known orator, Mr. Pomfrey.”
“Per’aps I am,” he ses, “but I’ll be a well-known
fool if I ’ave to stand up in Green’s ’All recitin’ ‘l’m
Only a Little Sparrer’ or somethin’ to a lot of
sniggerin’ ”
“Green’s ’All!” I ses quick. “But that’s right
next to Mr. Fish’s ’ouse.”
“So it is!” he ses thoughtful. He cheered up
a bit at the thought of them kids doin’ mass-recitin’
in old Andy’s ear’ole, as the sayin’ is", so I decides
that conditions is a bit more favorable, and I men-
tions wot else I ’ad come to see ’im about.
“Rise!” he ses, starin’. “Wot rise?”
“The one wot you promised to recommend if
you was returned to power, Mr. Pomfrey,” I explains.
“You remember ’ow ’ard I worked to ’elp you to
beat Mr. Fish, and you must remember sayin’ that
the ratcatcher ain’t paid near enough”
“I don’t remember nothin’ about a rise,” he ses.
“I’ll recommend your rise in me own good time.”
Knowin’ that Mr. Pomfrey’s own good time would
be about a week before the next elections, I argues
with ’im desperate ; but in the end I goes away ’eavy-
’earted and disappointed. I ’ad been lookin’ forward
terrible keen to that rise, and I was so upset I could
’ardly talk civil to Mrs. Raggles that night.
Not that I ’ad much chance to talk, because as
soon I gets ’ome she starts about the kids’ club and
poetry and recitin’ bits from a old book she ’ad dug
up. About the only bit I approves of was the one
about life bein’ all froth and bubble, but she shuts
me up quick.
“It ain’t that sort of froth and bubble,” she ses
cold. “If you took more interest in poems and less
in that vile stuff you’d be a better man. Culture is
wot you want, and, wot’s more, you’re goin’ to get it.
Later on we’re goin’ to start a adult section of the
club, and you’re goin’ to be a foundation member.”
It dawns on me then that Mr. Pomfrey is quite
right about this recitin’ business makin’ a man look
a fool, and I starts tryin’ to think of a way to ’elp
’im out; and at last I ’its on a idea wot would ’elp
everybody, includin’ old Andy Fish.
Andy was in a terrible temper when I meets
’im next evenin’ cornin’ ’ome from ’is work, and
he starts' tellin’ me ’ow he ’as just called in to Miss
Pilkington and protested about that club.
“I wants peace and quiet in me garden of a
Saturday afternoon,” ses Andy; “and if Pomfrey
and them kids disturbs me there’ll be trouble.”
“It’s ’ardly fair to you, Mr. Fish,” I agrees. “But
Miss Pilkington’s a terrible determined woman. The
best thing you can do would be to sell your ’ouse
and get right away from them screamin’ kids.”
“Wot!” he ses, starin’. “Sell me ’ome?”
“Why not?” I ses. “I’ll bring a bloke wot I
knows is very anxious to buy it around to see you
to-night, direct; that is, unless you’d rather do it
regular through Mr. Pomfrey.”
“I ain’t doin’ no business with that fat shark,”
snaps Andy. “I ain’t keen to sell neither, not unless
I gets me own price—eight-fifty cash.”
After I leaves Andy I makes a few notes, jottin’
down the price and also wot I thinks is a fair price
for the ’all next door, and then I rings up Mrs.
Raggles’s brother-in-law, James, and tells ’im to drive
over quick to inspect a estate bargain, addin’ that
he can buy the land next door cheap for a garage.
I ’ad a pretty good idea that James would buy,
’im bein’ one of them quiet, nervous blokes wot don’t
like arguin’ and ’agglin’; but wantin’ to be fair to
’im I points out that he ain’t obliged to come to no
decision immediate. “If it don’t suit, James,” I ses,
“just tell Andy you’ll see ’im later.”
’Owever, Andy makes such a excellent job of
showin’ us over the ’ouse that I feels sure it’s as good
as sold, and just as we’re leavin’ I tells James that
we can see Mr. Pomfrey next day about gettin’ the
land next door,
I notices old Andy givin’ me a quick look and
frownin’ thoughtful, but he didn’t say nothin’. James
didn’t say nothin’ neither, except tell Andy he’d see
’im later; but as soon as we gets into the car again
he squashes me ’opes complete by sayin’ that the
’ouse ain’t worth near the price and that he couldn’t
think of buyin’.
J T was a ’ard blow, and the end of me idea of
* closin’ that kids’ club, and I was feelin’ very sad
and disappointed when I calls on Mr. Pomfrey next
mornin’ to tell ’im ’ow I ’ad tried to ’elp ’im.
“Well, Raggles,” ses Mr. Pomfrey gloomy, as
soon as I goes in, “there ain’t goin’ to be no children’s
club, after all. Andy Fish ’as just left ’ere to tell
Miss Pilkington he ’as stopped it by buyin’ Green’s
’AH.”
“Well, ain’t you pleased, Mr. Pomfrey?” I ses.
“I ain’t pleased at Fish gettin’ the better of
me in business,” he growls. “Before leavin’ he told
(Continued on page 7.)


CYCLOPS
BY PHIL DORTER.
DRAWING BY SUCH.
THINGS had been deadly quiet for a fortnight,
and the general lassitude in the office threatened
to extend from the editorial even to the lino,
men. When times are like that the Ed. starts
thinking, and when he does that anything can happen.
I wasn’t very surprised then when the boy told me I
was wanted in the sanctum.
I tried to look as though I was thinking about
something while the Ed. gazed pensively at an
imaginary point some eight inches above my left ear.
“I’ve just been reading that thing,” he murmured,
indicating a copy of the Gumbadubbin Express
lying on his table, and I had a pretty fair idea of
what was coming.
The Ed.’s a queer bird in some ways—always get-
ting what he calls “hunches.” A Peruvian postmark
among the office mail is enough to keep him on his
toes for a fortnight expecting big news to break from
there. Now the Gumbadubbin “Express” had set
him thinking again, and Gumbadubbin isn t as far
away as Peru. I’d been to the dusty, God-forsaken,
little mining town twice before —once to investigate
some damnfool dog-racing business where cats were
used instead of hares, and once to look into some
bullfighting where goats were used instead of bulls
—and I wasn’t overkeen to go there again.
I pointed out that on each previous visit I had
arrived too late and, anyway, what story there had
been wasn’t worth a couple of inches on the back
page, but the Ed. waved my objections aside.
s‘l know, I know,” he said, “but I’ve a hunch a
big story will break in that place sometime, and I
want to have a man on the spot when it does.”
“All right,” I sighed, trying to appear interested.
“What am I on this time?”
“There’ve been stories in their local rag recently
about cockfighting,” said the Ed. “I dunno what there
is to it, but you’d better have a look anyway. If there s
not a general-interest story, you might get a follow-
up on those police raids at the cockpits in the suburbs
last week.”
There was nothing else for it, so I packed a
port., collected my exes, and took the road for the
open spaces.
TWO goats and a signpost saw me drive into Gum-
badubbin. I pulled up outside the pub, waited for
the dust to settle around the car and then got out and
pushed into the bar.
As I had anticipated, my red-headed friend of
earlier visits was leaning in exactly the same position
and wearing exactly the same morose expression as he
had leant and worn when I had seen him before. I
said “Hullo,” called for a couple of beers and asked
him how he was.
“Oh, better than dead, I s’pose,” and then, “I’ve
been expectin’ you, but you’re too late again.”
“The cockfighting?” I queried.
“Yair,” he said sadly. “It was all over a fort-
night ago.”
“I guessed it would be,” I said and called for
two more beers.
“Lofty Morgan started it like ’e starts everythin’
around this town,” began the red-headed one. “Lofty
’n’ meself were wearin’ out the seats of our pants on
the pub doorstep ’n’ Lofty was chafin’ like a hessian
shirt.
“‘Barney,’ ’e says to me, ‘if somethin’ don’t
’appen before long I’ll swell up ’n’ go purple n bust.
“ ‘Well, that’d be somethin’,’ I said, but Lofty
was busy scratchin’ ’is little toe through the ole
’e’d cut in ’is shoe for ’is corn to grow in comfort.
’E scratched to ’is ’eart’s content n’ was just goin
to say somethin’ when a couple of the grocer’s fowls
started fightin’ over a grass’opper outside the barber’s
shop. Lofty watched ’em disinterestedly for a while,
’n’ then somethin’ seemed to strike ’im like a ’undred-
weight of mullock.
“ ‘Barney,’ ’e yelped, ‘quick, a beer. I’ve got it.'
“I followed ’im into the bar ’n’ ’e took a long
glass in one gulp ’n’ started talkin like e adn t seen
me for years.
“ ‘Ain’t you ever ’eard of cockfightin’?’ ’e says.
‘Why, it’s one of the greatest of all sports, it’s’
“That was ’ow it commenced.
“In less time than it takes to knock off when the
whistle goes we’d started on a cockpit. Some of the
boys from the mine gave us a ’and, and we dug out
what looked like a small valley with a ring in the
centre. We benched our seats all round and stuck
up a fence with a ticket-box at the gate and a slab
of sheet-iron with ‘Gumbadubbin Cockpit painted on
it. It looked pretty good ’n’ we pasted notices all
round the town.
“Then we ’ad to find the birds and train ’em. By
the time two paydays ’ad passed the Gumbadubbin
Cockfightin’ Syndicate, which was Lofty ’n’ me, ’ad
bought just about anything in Gumbadubbin that ’ad
feathers on it ’n’ looked like a rooster. We ’ad Rhode
Island Reds, Plymouth Rocks, White Leghorns, Black
Orpingtons and sundry other fowls that might’ve been
“A rooster was a new one on Cyclops 'n' a
cockatoo was a new one on St. Vincent. The
pair of ’em took a minute to eye each other off.”
anythin’ from a cross between a bantam and Mus-
covy duck to peacock-turkey hybrids.
“Trainin’ ’em to fight was a tougher job, but we
managed it all right. We put ’em on a diet of raw
meat, cloves, peppercorns ’n’ chillies, ’n’ we kept ’em in
different pens ’n’ only fed one when all ’is mates
were ’ungry. After a month’s trainin’ they were
frothin’ at the beaks with fightin’ their own shadows.
“For the first fight the ring was packed like cur-
rants in a currant-tart with everyone from toolies to
the local bank manager. Lofty made a short speech
which nobody listened to, and then we brought a
couple of crates into the pit and let a Black Orp.
go for a White Leghorn.
“Can you imagine what’d ’appen if a willy-willy
’it a kapok factory? Well, that’s what the pit looked
like when those two birds saw each other. They went
straight up in the air ’n’ met about six feet above the
ground, ’n’ for five minutes there was nothin’ visible
but a blurry whirl of feathers ’n’ claws. A string of
squawks ended the bout with the Leghorn stretched
out in the dust and the Black Orp. tryin’ to strut
round ’im, but makin’ a mighty poor job of the strut-
tin’ and lookin’ as though someone ’ad started pluckin
’im for Christmas.
“That was only one of the preliminaries, and there
were a couple more like it to follow. But what those
birds did to each other ’n’ the noise the crowd made
was nothin’ to what ’appened in the main stoush of
the day—an all-in go between two Rhode Islands.
The pair of ’em fought until they were as naked as
the eggs they came out of; they fought till they
couldn’t stand ’n’ then they fought sittin’ down. When
they couldn’t fight any longer they rolled over in the
dust, ’n’ then one suddenly gives a feeble squawk and
lifts ’is ’ead to give the other a ’alf- earted clout
over the ear. That was a stoush!
“From that beginnin’ we went to greater things.
For a couple of months Lofty ’n’ me were livin’ like
lords with a room each at the pub. But like they got
tired of the bullfightin’ ’n’ dog-racin’ the mob gradu-
ally began to get fed up with cockfightin’, n soon
attendances dwindled ’n’ Lofty ’n’ I were drinkin beer
again instead of whisky.
u\T wasn’t altogether the crowd’s fault that they got
1 fed up. Lofty was findin’ it ’ard to arrange
decent fights. Our birds were runnin’ low ’n’ we ’ad
to be careful with them. We ’ad only four really good
fighters left, ’n’ we weren’t game to match ’em against
each other in case any of ’em were killed. So most
of the fights were one-sided affairs, n’ it wasn t even
worth while layin’ bets.
“Lofty’s brain was workin’ overtime to think of
somethin’ that would restore our source of income,
’n’ one night ’e woke me up near midnight to tell
me ’e’d got it again.
“‘Variety is what we need, Barney,’ ’e said.
‘Variety. We gave ’em cats in the dog-races and goats
in the bullfights, so now we’ll give ’em somethin’ dif-
ferent in their cockfights.’
“Anything that promised to swell our bankroll
was worth listenin’ to, ’n’ in a couple of jiffs I was
sittin’ on the side of the bed ’n’ swingin’ my toes just
out of reach of the cold lino. ‘Sounds all right,’ 1
said. ‘But what’re you goin’ to use for variety?’
“ ‘Anything, anything at all,’ said Lofty. ‘We’ll
try turkeys, ducks, geese ’n’ whatever else we can
find. We’ll issue challenges to anyone who likes to
match their bird against ours.’
“We didn’t sleep again that night, but spent the
time makin’ plans for our new campaign. Next
mornin’ we ’ad fresh posters printed ’n’ announced
our intentions to all of Gumbadubbin. It did the trick
f all right, ’n’ soon cockfightin’ was boomin’ again. Our
four best birds weren’t beaten, although they fought
everything from turkeys to ganders. There were side
matches too, ’n’ then we charged for the use of the
pit; ’n’ what with that ’n’ other small change rollin
in, Lofty ’n’ I were soon back in luxury again.
“ ’N’ then, just when everything in the garden
seemed lovely, Spike Mulligan queered us completely.
Ms brother sent ’im a Spanish cockerel or somethin’
from Sydney, ’n’ there wasn’t a rooster in Gumbadubbin
to touch it. St. Vincent it was called, ’n’ it cleaned
up everything we could put against it. We’d probably
’ave gone broke there ’n’ then if Spike adn t got too
cocky ’n’ issued a challenge that ’is would fight
anything that ’ad feathers on it ’n’ wasn’t more than
two feet ’igh.
“Lofty ’n’ I went into urgent conference just after
St. Vincent kiboshed our last ’ope —a 161 b. Rhode
Island.
“‘Barney,’ muttered Lofty, ‘there’s only one bud
in Gumbadubbin that’s under two feet tall ’n can
beat St. Vincent.’
“ ‘Didn’t even know there was that many, 1 said,
‘but who is it?’
“ ‘Cyclops,’ said Lofty.
“I looked at Lofty as though ’e’d gone right oil
’is rocker ‘Cyclops,’ I said. ‘Of course e could
beat ’im, but ’oo in ’ell is goin’ to let you match
Cyclops against St. Vincent?
“Evervbody in Gumbadubbin knew Cyclops. Hv.
was one of the biggest white cockatoos I’ve ever seen,
V anything that wasn’t a human bein ed kill
Jght There was no doubt about ’im bein able to
St Vincent—’e’d already accounted for
various cats V animals .hat'd tried to get the
bluer of -im-but since ’e belonged to the parsons


WANTED:
New Story Writers
Each month The Bulletin ’ is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short—1500 to 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be £>aid for at the usual rates
£2 2s. for each 1 000 words.
Closing date for the second monthly com-
petition is August 7. The sooner entries are
sent in the sooner they can be read and the
judging completed.
fc Mandel’s Movies is anin' h„„ - •
, ai iVldnaei s wiovies is goin to buy is ouse
for a f od pri “> a " d ,*e/all for a undred quid
more that he paid me for it. Two-fifty he’s gettin’
for Green’s ’All.”
,7*°' 1 SeS ' “ J “ St W °‘ ' thought ” was
h mese £ ' 1 rcmembcr it down last night."
, He looks at me sur Prised, so 1 explained wot
1 ad done ’ and unts throu 8 h me pockets for me
notes; then when 1 finds them missin’ the truth
daW ?f ° n me .’ Sudden ;
u . , VlSltm ticket!” I gasps. “The one
belongin to Mandel s Movies wot you slung at me,
P ? mfre y- 1 used B f° r jottin’ down me notes
floo/and he\ LIT d™ d r ° PPed j‘ ,° n m r ’ Rsh ' S
h » S iound d and J um P ed to the wrong
' % t-, „ , . , ~ ,
hut \4 1d was no J ai |Bhin matter meselt.
ba °. therw,se , Matter
thinks conditions is n hit a^ c amuse a
tionin’ me rise ‘ C ° f men '
And they was.
wife, who’d gone crook about our cockfightin' ever
since we’d started it, I didn’t see ’ow we’d be able to
match ’im against St. Vincent. I said so to Lofty.
Leave it to me, e said; it as to be done
some’ow.’
‘‘ p VERY day for a fortnight after that Lofty
' found som e excuse for us to visit the parson.
V every time ’e called ’e stopped to talk to Cyclops.
’E used to say ‘ ’Ullo, Cyclops, ole man, ole man,’ V
then say somethin’ else so softly that only Cyclops
could ’ear it. The bird used to twist ’is ’ead on one
side ’n’ watch Lofty out of one beady brown eye ’n’
take in everything ’e said. Then one mornin’ I saw
the bird say somethin’ back at Lofty, ’n’ from the way
’e grinned I guessed somethin’ would ’appen soon.
“Next day when Lofty called ’e asked the
parson's wife if she’d sell ’im Cyclops, ’n’ she nearly
'ad a blue fit. Lofty didn’t say a word ’n’ left with-
out even speakin’ to Cyclops. The next mornin’, 'ow-
ever, when ’e called, ’e asked ’er again, ’n’ when she
turned ’im down ’e turned to Cyclops ’n’ said ‘ ’Ullo,
Cyclops, ole man, ole man.’
“Lofty spoke pretty loudly, ’n’ the bird came
back at ’im like a shot ’n’ just as loudly with a string
of curses that I’d never imagined were even in Lofty’s
vocabulary. The parson’s wife changed color a couple
of times, then gasped for breath, ’n’ when she got that
she scolded, ‘Cyclops, you naughty bird. Oh, you
wicked, wicked cocky.’
“But Cyclops had just got into ’is stride, ’n’ ’e
cocked ’is ’ead on one side ’n’ told ’er just what ’e’d
told Lofty, only ’e told ’er a bit louder. The parson’s
missus screamed ’n’ keeled over, ’n’ ’er better ’alf
came runnin’ out just in time to catch ’er before she
’it the ground.
“Lofty got Cyclops for five bob.
“We knew the parson ’n’ ’is wife wouldn’t say
anything about partin’ with Cyclops because they’d
be afraid people’d find out why they sold ’im, ’n’ we
were able to keep the whole business right in the dark
except for askin Spike what ’e’d offer against a bird
weighin’ two or three pounds beatin’ ’is St. Vincent.
Spike thought for a while ’n’ said ‘twenty,’ ’n’ when
we looked a bit scared ’e raised it to thirty, so we
took ’im up at that.
“From the interest shown in it the fight looked
like bein’ even more popular than the very first one,
n ’ when the day came everyone was on their toes won-
derin’ ’oo ’n’ what our fighter was. You should’ve
eard the mob roar laughin’ when they saw Lofty
carryin’ a little crate with a small white bird
in it, but the laughs changed to silence when Cyclops
strutted out, ’n’ Spike sat down suddenly like some-
one’d cut off both ’is legs.
Cyclops’d learned a lot while ’e’d been with
Lofty ’n’ meself, ’n’ ’e scratched about in the pit,
throwin’ up dirt with ’is beak ’n’ sayin’ things that
made the ladies in the front seats wish they were in
the back ones. ’E was so busy showin’ off to the
crowd that ’e didn’t notice Spike open the door of his
crate ’n’ let St. Vincent loose.
A rooster was a new one on Cyclops ’n’ a
cockatoo was a new one on St. Vincent. The pair of
em took a minute to eye each other off, ’n’ then St.
Vincent thought ’e’d get in first. ’E did, too—sud-
denly e leaped up ’n’ forward ’n’ ran ’is spurs all
over the cockatoo, ’n’ Cyclops ’it the dirt with a
squawk. St. Vincent went back for air ’n’ to see
what’d ’appened.
Cyclops rubbed is beak in the dirt ’n’ struggled
to is feet, n e ran a cunnin’ brown eye over the
rooster. ‘You !’ ’e squawked, ’n’ that was the
end of it. A streak of white wrapped itself round
St. Vincent’s throat, ’n’ before you could blink there
was that rooster stretched out cold ’n’ the cockatoo
sittin’ on ’is chest ’n’ plucking out feathers as calmly
as you please.
“T”HE death of St. Vincent was really the end of
the cockfightin’ business. There were a few
more fights, ’n’ Cyclops ’eld interest for a while, but
there wasn’t anything, not even other cockatoos, that
could last five seconds against ’im. Lofty ’n’ I wound
up our business ’n’ were back on the rocks again—
not ’appy, but at least content we’d downed Spike.
“Then to bring trouble on us again, Cyclops
started causin’ trouble. The fights ’ad given ’im a real
taste for blood ’n’ feathers, ’n’ he started to go ’untin’
whenever ’e got the chance.
“ ’E went for anything that flew or ’ad feathers
on it. Within a week Lofty ’n’ I ’ad so many bills
from bereaved fowl-owners that we ’ad to work our
insides out underground to pay off our debts. We'd
probably still be workin’ our insides out if the north-
bound mail ’plane ’adn’t been a bit off its course a
fortnight ago.
“Cyclops was perchin’ on the roof searchin’ for
an unsuspectin’ fowl when the ’plane went over. The
cockatoo saw it ’n’ ’e let out one screech ’n’ took off
after it.”
The red-headed man finished his beer and sighed,
and I sighed in sympathy.
“And Cyclops never came back?” I asked.
“No,” he said, “but a couple of days ago a drover
from up north said ’e’d seen a screamin’ white
thunderbolt kill sixteen emus in less than a minute, so
as far as I know ’n’ hope that bird’s still ’eadin’ north.”
“COMMITTED IN THE TRAFFIC”
BY WILL LAWSON.
THE Premiers room in Parliament House, Bris-
bane, so picturesquely set amid palm-trees and
looking out on the Botanical Gardens;, was
filled with sunshine one morning fifty years ago.
Seated at his table, the Premier, Sir Samuel Griffith,
looked up from his papers as a deputation of im-
portant citizens filed in past his secretary, who stood
at the door after announcing them.
And what can I do for you?” Sir Samuel asked,
smiling his slow smile.
The deputation, as' deputations do, looked at its
leader, who cleared his throat. “We are here, Sir
Samuel, he said, “to present a petition signed by
28,000 residents of Queensland, asking for the pardon
of the men of the schooner Hopeful who were sen-
tenced, two of them to death, for the murder and
maltreatment of Kanakas in the islands where that
vessel was recruiting. Representing this large number
of signatories and ourselves, we plead in justification
that these atrocities were committed in the traffic, and
it is hard to make these men the first victims when
so many others have been involved.... ”
Sir Samuel listened to their pleading without
interruption. When some of the others had added
their appeals to that of their leader, he raised his eyes
from his desk.
“You realise, gentlemen,” he said quietly, “that
one of the men sentenced to death, McNeil, was the
Government agent, appointed to safeguard the natives’
welfare, and the other was the mate of the Hopeful.
You know, too, that I have been opposed to this
traffic for many years, not on account of the color
of the Kanakas or because they represent cheap labor,
but on account of the evils which follow in its wake.
First, it tends to create large landed estates held largely
by absentees, it introduces gang labor in the tropics,
which discourages small farmers, and leads to the
degradation of white workers and also to the perma-
nent existence of a large servile population without
franchise, which is not compatible with free political
institutions. Lastly, I object because of the abuses
in the traffic.
“You realise what these men are guilty of.
Though their crimes were committed many miles from
here, and against Kanakas, they are none the less
atrocious, unbelievable of white men ”
Briefly he recounted the story of the Hopeful’s
voyage.
Ferguson Island, the largest of the D’Entrecas-
teaux Group, has no reef. It is surrounded by deep
water; only a few of its many bays offer anchorage.
High mountains tower above the boiling surf which
thunders against the cliffs. Forty miles long and
twenty-four miles in width, the island supported a
large native population before the blackbirders came.
The bays were populous, canoes were plentiful, the
people were happy. Now the bays were deserted.
What remained of the inhabitants had taken refuge
inland—save for a few fishermen.
Into one of the bays one morning sailed the
recruiting schooner Hopeful under command of Cap-
tain Schofield. Two canoes were in the bay engaged in
fishing, some distance from the beach. At sight of
the vessel as she founded a headland, they paddled
frantically for the shore.
“Come on, let’s head them off,” Barney Williams,
the mate, said. “Lower two boats. You take one,
Mac.”
McNeil sprang to the starboard boat, which was
quickly lowered and manned by himself and four other
men , the second boat held Williams, two other seamen
and two Teste Island boys. Bending to their oars, the
crews of the boats pursued the two canoes, which were
now quite close to the beach.
“We can’t get them, Mac,” Williams called out.
Can’t we?” McNeil, the official representative of
the Queensland Government, ordered his men to rest
on their oars and stood up, rifle in hand. He fired,
and the steersman in one of the canoes fell forward.
The crew, fearing a similar fate, jumped overboard.
McNeil’s boat was soon up with them, when they
were seized and dragged inboard. Most of the natives
were squeezed under the thwarts, where they lay
cramped and in great pain. One man did jump over-
board before he could be imprisoned. Williams went
jn after him, and as the native came up breathless
the mate cut his throat.
Among the captives was a little boy, too small
to sell in Queensland. The white men lashed empty
coconuts under his arms and threw him overboard to
get ashore as best he could. Some of the crew related
afterwards that they saw him drown in the raging
surf. Eight men was the haul made that day, and
all lived to reach Queensland, where they realised £24
a head to the blackbirders.
From Ferguson the Hopeful sailed on to Nor-
manby Island. When she came in sight the natives
fled into the bush. McNeil followed them with Wil-
liams and two others (Preston and Rogers). Preston
boasted that he had shot two men and Williams one
boy on that occasion. A few natives were captured,
but later they escaped and got ashore. McNeil then
went ashore threatening vengeance. He burned two
houses on the beach, and two more natives were killed.
At Caivata Island a canoe in which were five
natives came out to meet the Hopeful. A boat con-
taining McNeil, Captain Schofield, Preston and Rogers
pulled in to meet them. Shaking their heads to indi-
cate they did not wish to go in the ship, the natives
paddled towards the shore. They were soon over-
taken. When McNeil cut their boat to the water’s
edge with a tomahawk, the Kanakas jumped over-
board to swim to the shore. Five were picked up
and shoved under the thwarts, despite their protests
and screams. Next day four more were captured.
At Merira natives came alongside with fruits and
vegetables to exchange for tobacco. As they reached
up to get the tobacco they were seized, dragged aboard
and thrown into the holds with the other captives.
At Bentley Bay, McNeil and another seaman captured
a woman and some men at revolver-point. Again at
Teste Island natives were seized. But when the Hopeful
was two miles out twenty-eight of the captives on
board managed to escape. What would have followed
who can tell, but at that moment H.M.S. Swinger
came into sight. Officers boarded the Hopeful and
examined her log; which had been written up by
the plausible McNeil. After examining the personal
papers, they returned to their ship “finding everything
all right.” The Hopeful then sailed for Queensland
with her load of miserable natives, for each of whom
the captain had a document attesting that the man
came of his own free will and signed by an imaginary
person on the island of origin.
“So you see, gentlemen,” Sir Samuel’s even voice
concluded the story, “what these men were guilty of.
The royal commission which inquired into the matter
said that the history of the cruise of the Hopeful was
one long record of deceit, cruel treachery, deliberate
kidnapping and cold-blooded murder. ‘The number
killed can never be known’ —those are the words of
the commission's report. In addition to the two men
killed, for which McNeil and Williams were tried
and condemned by the Supreme Court, the stories
narrated more than confirmed the facts. Personally
I have never heard of such a voyage of murderous
atrocities. The culprits should have been hanged at
the yardarm. You plead that these deeds were com-
mitted in the traffic. Then for God’s sake stop the
traffic. Good morning, gentlemen, that is my answer.”


the border into Afghanistan. There, too, they found
the old and the new at grips, and came to the con-
clusion that as a buffer State between Communism
and India Afghanistan was a complete success. The
intense religious feeling of the entire population makes
it completely immune to Communist propaganda.
The detail of the book is exceptionally interest-
ing, full of good anecdotes and pictures. A flowery
compliment written on a saint’s tomb: “Oh, inex-
pressible man! By thee in truth is nature enriched
and adorned! Had not thy perfect self been in the
Creator’s thought, Eve had remained for ever a virgin
and Adam a bachelor.” Or the story of Shah Abbas
who wanted to break his nobles of the habit of smok-
ing and at a feast ordered the kalyans to be filled
with horse dung, which looks very like Persian tobacco.
Another shah tried to stop his people smoking by
pouring melted lead down the offenders’ throats. The
people still smoke.
There are many pictures from daily life: the
amiable Iranian’s love of poultry (“They walk down
the street, a turkey tucked under each arm, as a child
might affectionately carry kittens”); Persian gardens
whose charm lay in the running water ; child workers
in the carpet factories ; the skill shown in the con-
struction of the traditional irrigation systems; the
very individual bread of Iran:
Persian bread is a peculiar substance, flexible in
texture and dark-brown in color. You buy it in great
wobbly flaps, less than an inch thick and you use
it to wrap up your shopping, carrying it over your
arm like a travelling rug. In flavor it varies consider-
ably according to its consistency, crispness and
antiquity, but it is usually very tasty.
Notable, also, the author’s pictures of the bazaars,
the mosques, the little asses. The text is enlivened
with some first-rate photographs and a map.
Idriess Holds the Fort.
A surprising omission from lon Idriess’s Must
A ustralia Fight ? (Angus and Robertson) is any plan
for coping with an invasion from Mars, but there
doesn’t seem to be any other possibility of attack on
Australia that he hasn’t considered. The title is a
misnomer, for he isn’t so much concerned with the
chances of war or peace as with what this country
would have to do if war did come.
Before he can justify his cheerful instructions for
making a dugout in the backyard he has to prove that
an invasion is possible, and he does so by imagining
the British navy tied up or defeated in home waters
or a defeat or evasion of the Singapore fleet. He
stresses the need for Australia to have a capital ship
and suggests, if that is considered too expensive, sub-
marines and plenty of motor-cruisers armed with tor-
pedoes.
Australia’s vast area gives him plenty of scope
for speculation as to where an invader might launch
his attack. Idriess allows almost every spot on the
coastline a chance of welcoming the visitors, but con-
siders in most detail the possibilities of an enemy land-
ing in the north and digging in or else directly attack-
ing the continent’s most vulnerable point—one of the
big cities, probably Sydney or Melbourne. He asks
the authorities:
What are the number of anti-tank guns, what
ammunition and replacements for those guns? Are our
munition factories out of reach of an enemy? Have
we sufficient coastal guns to keep at least raiding cruisers
from effective range of any coastal city or town? What
number of up-to-date military aircraft do we possess?
....How many modern anti-aircraft guns?
Having served in the Great War, Idriess realises
the supreme importance of man-power and the neces-
sity of training. He makes no direct statement on
the obvious necessity for compulsory training, but he
says, “If a country has no army at all she is beaten
before the enemy lands,” and, “Half our population
dwell in the cities. The majority of the men hardly
know how to handle a rifle. What chance would these
unfortunates stand if they were called to arms at a
moment’s notice?” Comparing the conditions that
would apply in Australia to the Boer War and the
present doings in China and deciding that here, as in
those instances, the war would resolve itself into
guerrilla fighting, he makes three good points: first,
the importance of rifles and machine-guns ; second, the
necessity of mobility and the importance the horse
might have if petrol supplies ran short; third, the
extraordinarily tough job any invader would have to
conquer and hold this country, “capable of swallowing
whole armies.”
Idriess doesn’t claim to be an expert strategist
and he can’t be called an expert on foreign affairs
when he refers to the “friendless” Spanish Republi-
cans, but he does know the geography of the Pacific:
There is no such thing as an isolated Australia.
We are practically connected by land to Asia... .There
is only one considerable gap, about 500 miles of sea
between Darwin and Timor from Timor there is
practically no break excepting ‘ the short waterways
connecting island to island.
Within hailing distance of Australia because of
this land-bridge, whose islands could be bases for an
attacker, he finds there are 712,564,000 people—most
of them in China and Japan, but 66,400,000 in the
Dutch East Indies and a good many millions in the
Philippines, Siam and French Indo-China. Australia,
Maoriland and their dependencies are holding
3,300,636 square miles with a white population of
eight and a half millions. This is the most interesting
section of a book that suffers elsewhere from repeti-
tion and from dwelling too long on very remote con-
tingencies.
Reconstruction in China.
James Bertram, the Maoriland Rhodes scholar,
has written another book about China. He begins
North China Front (Macmillan) with the observation,
“Books about China multiply, though the good ones
continue rare.” He doesn’t add, as he might have
with truth, that his is among the good ones. Despite
all the others it reads like new.
It is a record of personal experience during 1937
and 1938 ; in Japan at the beginning of the war and
then in China, marching through a campaign with
the Eighth Route Army in the north, establishing a
personal friendship with Mao Tse-Tung, the Chinese
leader who enjoys a reputation second only to that of
Chiang Kai-shek. In Japan in 1937 he saw a people
drunk with patriotism, caught between the fear of
Russia’s consolidating strength and their need to ex-
pand, knowing that they dare wait no longer if they
were to capture the resources of China. A Japanese
economist explained the situation:
There are only two real powers in Japan—Army and
Navy. What do they represent politically? The army
is tied up with heavy industry. This group wants war
on the continent, the raw materials and minerals of
North China, a base against the Soviet Union. The
navy is backed by the manufacturers and light industrial-
ists, who depend on foreign trade —they want expansion
to the south, wider markets, a “friendly understanding”
with the Chinese Government, so that they can gradu-
ally penetrate the country and dominate China’s trade.
The war to-day is an army stunt.
Bertram left Japan for China at the beginning of
the war. He saw the fall of Pekin after one day’s
defence. Then he travelled north-west to Yenan and
the “special province” of Shansi while other journal-
ists were hurrying to Shanghai. He saw everywhere
the two Chinas: the one that was decaying—officials
too busy with their age-old duties to recognise the
war until the guns were upon them, soldiers without
ammunition, without leaders, generals without tactics,
wastage, misery—and the China that was being born.
He says:
The opportunity I was given to travel with the Eighth
Route Army was accepted on the understanding that 1
should be free to write as I pleased on all that I
5aw....1 have not knowingly distorted anything I saw
in the telling of it, and that is about as much as any
honest reporter can say.
It is from the north, on Bertram’s showing, that
China is being regenerated. He shows how Japan is
creating Chinese unity. It was with Mao Tse-Tung
that guerrilla warfare, the only possible answer to
Japan’s superior technical equipment, began. The
countryside adapted itself. The villagers dug them-
selves into the hillsides, living not uncomfortably in
caves, not discernible from the air. The army is
accompanied by a corps of children, boys between
10 and 16, who act as orderlies, do intelligence work
and receive an education.
It is only when one knows something of the old
China, with its universal ruthless exploitation of juvenile
labor in city sweat-shops and rural industries, that one
can really appreciate the miracle that freedom and a
sense of responsibility have worked in the lives of these
youngsters. Their gaiety and independence are a new
phenomenon in a Confucian society. The Old China
will never reclaim them.
Bertram has no doubt that this new integrating
China will survive even military defeat and will be
the China of to-morrow.
Hard Cases—and Others.
S. S. Van Dine, who wrote the Philo Vance detec-
tive stories, died last year. The Grade Allen Murder
Case (Cassell; Dymock’s) is published posthumously.
All the preciosities and mannerisms of Philo
Vance appear in their most irritating dress, while plot
and presentation are far below the high average of
Van Dine’s previous books. It justifies the celebrated
couplet:
Philo Vance
Wants a kick in the pants.
Philo couples an almost insolent omniscience with
a habit of speech of which a fair example is: “You
have found one potential connection between the
almost totally disorganised and unrelated components
of your drama and maybe you can develop your nar-
rative structure with that as a basis.” The story itself
is very thin and is spun out unconscionably, even tc
make up the 200-odd pages of large type which are all
that are' 1 required.
The Man from the Chamber of Horrors (Hodder
and Stoughton), by John Ross, is quite a good story,
though the thrills are rather overdone, nearly every
chapter ending with a sensational curtain. It tells of
two brothers, Simon and Toby Troy, whose resem-
blance to one another enables the former, the villain
of the piece, to place his crimes on the shoulders of
the latter, with the result that Toby undergoes a
series of suspicions and hairbreadth escapes. Toby
comes up smiling and wins the girl with whom he has
shared so many adventures. The book gets its title
from the fact that Simon’s effigy is in Tussaud’s. Toby-
substitutes his own person for his waxen brother when
closely pursued by the police.
Dennis Wheatley, whose The Quest of Julian Day
comes from Hutchinson, has produced, besides other
novels, some of those crime “dossiers” of which
Murder off Miami was the first and best. The Quest
of Julian Day is a long story, set mainly in Egypt. Its
principal theme is the search for the treasure supposed
to have been abandoned by the army of Cambyses,
the Persian, some 500 years b.c. in the sands of the
Libyan Desert. It brings in all sorts of side-issues,
from dope-running to archaeological research, and
from white slavery to amorous adventures of the most
hectic kind, while its characters range from inter-
national spies, female adventuresses and drink-sodden
degenerates to Egyptologists, he-men and attractive
young women. Wheatley concocts a very attractive
tale, marred in places by slovenly writing.
George Goodchild’s Inspector McLean is prob-
ably as well known as any detective in fiction. There
must be nearly 20 of the McLean novels, and yet the
latest one, McLean Sees It Through (Hodder and
Stoughton ; Dymock’s), shows no falling-off. Three
corpses and two very neat murders are provided ;
suspicions fall on nearly all the characters, and there
is considerable novelty of incident. The climax is as
surprising as it is well effected. One or two incidents
have nothing to do with the main theme and serve
rather unfairly to mystify the reader, but altogether
!V(cLean sees it through in good style.
Mystery at Hidden Harbor (John Lane) is the first
book by Cortland Fitzsimmons, popular in the Uniteo
States, to be published by an English firm. It is well
written, with plenty of gore and mystery. It differs
from most crime stories in having two detectives, both
women, working together. The story is told by one of
them, and she tells it very competently and not with-
out humor. A pleasant love story is developed around
the other detective and an American journalist.
VariousVerse
Yet Am I Worshipper.
I write not flowering words;
Mine are the briar, the^thorn.
I am no William Yeats
Whose touch is to adorn.
Yet am I worshipper
Where beauty lifts in plume
Words like a spray of doves,
A pear-tree white with bloom.
And I have known a weft
Of beauty like a robe
Spun by the hand of God.
I have read Job.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.
Heritage.
All this too-savage grace
Of life like snow on rock
And music ringing black
From the rowan-bleeding burn
Speaks now as speaks my face
Of a dead man’s return.
Past me and past my father
And before his father’s time
Some young man bore my name
And wore my face and form
And found among the heather
As I in my time —storm.
O my dead comrade, my master,
Jolting my hands to their work
Rocking my heart in the dark
Staring at life from my eyes,
When will you yield to disaster,
When will you sleep and be wise?
O my dead kinsman, my friend,
Whose voice is harsh in my throat,
What struggle not fought out
On Appin moor and hill,
And never perhaps to end,
Torments our wild blood still?
Where the red rowan glittered
Over the burn’s dark thunder,
What sucked your spirit under
And flung it up, oh, hurled
Its pride and rage to be shattered
On the black rocks of the world?
I would endure for you
Whom I love as my own brother
All the soul’s thunderous weather;
I would turn my flesh to stone
To see the long winter through
For you, for men, for my son:
But the spring is slow in coming
And you—and I, possessed —-
Like mountains and thunder best.
O my proud ghost, my master,
Be in my bloodstream drumming
The joy of our disaster,
For I have no heart but yours.
It is your dead hand that touches
Hand and hair, and clutches
Torrent and rock and tree;
It is only your faith endures
And lives my life for me.
t.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
Versicle.
I dreamt you were a dream,
And hardly breathed for fear
Of waking; ne’er to dream
Of you again . . . my dear . . .
N.S.W.
HUGH McCRAE.
Twilight.
Twilight in Egoisle, where the flushed sky’s brows are pines,
And its eyes are late to come, loving only blind lands.
Twilight over the little bay of waters like old wines,
And the houses, the blue and red armor that the hands
Have raised to hide the hearts. All, save my heart.
It needs no house, no tower of pointed grapes
Clinging to copper walls and mauve chasms that part
The swart winter shadows from those broken shadows
That fill our bursting dreams.
But, lonely now, I turn
To where the long hill rises like a mare.
Lying upon her mane is the persimmon’s scarlet rein;
Behind my head the evening’s halo burns,
And a stirrup of shadows shake and swing and bare
The silver saddles of forsaken boughs.
O love, to-night I carry two sad hearts.
I must not ask the boon that would arouse
Your silence, that stoops, kissing, and departs.
Where is the moon? I crave her staid sure pace:
Her light on my head as on the land and sea.
I feel the deathless pool of my white face
Break to the ocean when she walks with me.
No moon to-night! Only two brightnesses in this sky,
Tw'O lamps from earth to light the native gloom;
The persimmons drunk with autumn and the high
Down-drooping whiteness of the toitoi plume.
1 will be like a child and pretend to die
Where stars are faltering in the heavenly grass.
And you will search to find me and will cry,
“To-night I wished to look and love and pass
With pitying hands, for I have heard you pray,
Held still like water, by prayer’s peaceful frost.
And, God be thanked, my life’s lust burnt away
But where are you now, my little loved one lost.
At that, in the boughs, the moon (our nightingale)
Would raise her throat and sing in rippling tones.
And in thorny hands, the cobweb harps full frail
Would by the sighs of morning be outblown
Then would I rise and come to you, all bright
With sleekest drops the leaves had ever cried,
And we would walk together all that.night,
And for ever in its happiness abide.
MAORILAND.
EVE LANGLEY.


erf /AajnJyiiioi
TAKE A
1-4 Volt Portable
RADIO WITH YOU
• it
ill
3' >:JH
w^lPilSS
Hiiiliii 111
III#
_ „M« C *t
li**L h0 uS —'
■ ■ i"'
i!ll!ilBlii!liBilit
-; ; i-
■••■: :■■ /, •
■
■s
TO 0
VO
00?,
IS
po'f'Z cm*
' ' ! u$t >
can
.V
1.4 volt valves and dry batteries are
specially designed for use with each
other. Shown above are the PR4S and
PRB Radio Batteries specially engineered
to a size suitable for the smart modern
Portable radio YET capable of remark-
able performance and service. Offer-
ing an exceptionally long working
life they keep operating costs down
and eliminate the need for inconveni-
ent accumulators.
No Power Point
Accumulator or Aerial —
Simply Switch On. Tune In
EVERYWHERE you go out-doors this season you will see one of the
sensational new 1.4 volt Portable Radios. Equipped with the
wonderful new economy valves and operated entirely from specially
designed dry batteries they are lighter and more compact than any
other set you have ever seen—require no power point, aerial or
accumulator, cost as little as Id. per hour to run, and can be carried
and used anywhere. Just put it down and switch it on to skim the
cream of radio entertainment.
In the bush, at the seaside, even in the garden or as a "second" set
around the house a 1.4 volt Portable radio offers you and your friends
endless hours of fun and music, so see your nearest radio dealer
to-day and ask him to show you one of the newest models—or write
to Box 37, P.O. Mascot, for advance literature. Sent Free.
1.4 Volt Portable Radio is Equipped with
RADIO BATTERIES


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jf ffblt li&e -cf'tote
UNITED STATES EMBASSY, PRINCES GATE.
FRENCH EMBASSY, ALBERT GATE.
Of peculiar interest to visitors to London are the Embassies of the United States and France. Ever smce the outbreak of the World
War the London houses of the representatives of these two great Republics have occupied supremely important positions in the
diplomatic world of the Metropolis. Architecturally the American Embassy is the youngest of the major Embass.es. It was made
possible by the generosity of the late Mr. J. Pierpont Morgan, whose instincts of national pride led him to provide a resi ence
worthy of his country, and which Congress, for some reason or another, had persistently declined to do. Situated m one of he most
desirable quarters of fashionable Kensington the Embassy is a leading segment in social and diplomatic life. The modernity of
building is reflected in the illustration. Prior to this gift to his nation, the Ambassador, generally a man of great wealth, took a
mansion, the rent of which alone was probably considerably in excess of his official salary, hence the custom of Washington practically
invariably appointing to the Court of St. James, the plum of the American diplomatic service, a gentleman who, in addition o
distinguished personal attributes, was the possessor of large financial resources. The French Embassy has for almost a been o
of the outstanding “private” residences of London. On the corner of Albert Gate, which gives entrance to Hyde Park front Kn.g g ,
it was built in 1852 with the building opposite, almost if not quite a “twin,” by George Hudson, the Rai way ng
at this time enjoyed the reputation of being the tallest buildings in London. Tenants could not be found for these two square
barracks.” and because they were untakable they were dubbed “Gibraltar and Malta.” In 1854, t e renc m assa or
Walewski, and Queen Victoria honored him with her presence, thus, as was said, opening the way to a new Entente Cordiale. N p
111. and the Empress Eugenie stayed here bn visiting London. It has seen great Ambassadors-Witlewsk, d Vad g
Paul Cambon-the last-named the most famous; as his work during the Great War made plain. Famed for the splendor of official
functions held there, it is actually a part of la Belle France in the Heart of the capital of her great ally.


POSITIVELY HIS FIRST APPEARANCE IN ANY CAGE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
COMMUNISM'S GREATEST HOPE.
Sydney’s “Sunday Sun,” discoverer of a Great Black
Box Mystery which had nothing in it, has rediscovered
this smaller black box which has a great deal in it:
Communists have their own attitude to world
affairs. From London comes this Red view.
It answers its own question in black type:
MUSSOLINI
HITLER
CHAMBERLAIN
DALADIER
WH I C H
WINS?
When it produced that the “Sunday Sun” was hysteri-
cally convinced that the threatened war —with prin-
cipals as indicated, since Mr. Stalin still stood out -
would be on us at any tick of the clock. The Com-
munists must have been feeling just as sure, and also
plated, when the little box was built, otherwise they
would never have thrown off the camouflage so
completely.
For the present the design for world revolution,
with the spread of the Godless cult all over the earth,
is in abeyance, having worked up forces too powerful
to tackle. But it is in abeyance only ; it has not been
abandoned. It is still the leading plank of Comintern
policy ; schools for international revolution are to-day
flourishing in Moscow ; the cult remains by far the
most important of the Soviet’s potential exports. All
that is needed is' the right conditions for its wide-
spread growth, and nobody knows so well as the Com-
munists that these can now be brought back to Europe
by no means other than those frankly set forth in the
“Sunday Sun’s” latest black box.
What the parties in the prospective line-up may
be induced to fight over is, of course, wholly imma-
terial. They can fight over Danzig ; they can fight to
teach Herr Hitler that it is ungentlemanly to break
promises ; they can fight because every pound spent on
a gun that does not go off is dead money, and nations
cannot long sustain the millstone of such colossal
amounts of dead money ; they can fight because day
and night for years past the most vicious and venom-
ous propaganda has been working relentlessly on
the lowest of human passions, inflaming hatreds and
enlarging fears to monstrous proportions. Or they
can fight genuinely convinced, on the one side, that
the Germans are determined on world domination ;
on the German side, that they are being encircled to
bring about their economic and national destruction.
It does not matter what they fight for, the result
will be the same —carnage and waste and ruin, dis-
illusionment and despair, disease and starvation, the
confusion of peoples and the fall of Governments ; the
conditions —the only conditions —in which Commu-
nism can hope to succeed outside the country in which,
out of those very conditions, it has developed to its
natural maturity, in the shape of as cowardly, bloody-
minded and barbarous a dictatorship as the world has
ever known.
It will be noted thaf the boxed line-up does not
include M. Stalin. He is the answer to the riddle,
not a prospective contestant. The omission is sig-
nificant, though exclusion need not, in fact, take place.
The line-up given is certainly the surest and safest
way of having the answer to the riddle work out right.
As the Communists realise, that would be a war
to make the world safe for Communism. M. Stalin
himself has no doubt at all on that point. He has
explained the success of Communism in Russia as due
to (a) the exhaustion created by the Great War ; (b)
“the powerful slogan of Peace”; (c) the active sym-
pathy of Communists outside Russia.
If Russia could stand out of the proposed war all
these ingredients of ferment could be brought into
play. In the exhaustion created by war, there would
be nothing more powerful than the slogan of Peace,
and then the active sympathy of Communists inside
Russia would operate with effect outside. Writing a
preface to his speeches, M. Stalin touched on that last
point in reference to one of the parties of the pro-
posed line-up. After stating that one of the weak-
nesses of the Communist rising in Russia was that it
had “no neighboring Soviet State on which to lean,”
he added: —
It is certain that the future revolution in Germany
will find itself, in this respect, in a better position owing
to the presence of a State as powerful as our Soviet
Russia.
Through Germany’s own fault, there is now no
hope that that real cause of fear in Germany will be
patiently considered, let alone generally understood.
Nonetheless it is there ; and not only in Germany. Of
the numerous fallacies now being hawked about in
propaganda, none is more palpdbly hollow than that
which declares the Anti-Comintern Pact to be merely
a blind. Certainly Germany’s recent actions have lent
some color to that idea; but the fear of Communism
in Germany and other countries —many other coun-
tries—is too real and too deeply rooted to be dis-
missed by any but the most one-eyed observers. The
peoples of all those countries have had it inside their
own frontiers, and they know it for what it is.
Spain is only the most recent, though it is also
the worst, example. Germany, Italy, Hungary, Aus-
tria, Finland, Estonia, Poland —these and other Euro-
pean countries have all had Communism active in their
own midst, with the accompaniments that go with it
wherever it appears: murders and destruction of prop-
erty, the burning of churches and the suspension of
justice, rule by inquisitorial cliques, torture and brutal
executions. In several of these countries things are
going on which history will write down as terrible ;
but all of those countries and others are well aware
of occurrences in Russia which make their own record
appear clean and sane.
At the moment Communism is at its lowest ebb.
But it has hopes. Its name stinking to high heaven
from every corner of the earth, it is yet nearer to its
goal than ever before. Whether or not Russia is even-
tually included in the line-up will not matter: it need
not stay long: it got out before, and can do so again,'
leaving to the others the mutual destruction out of
which, and only out of which, can arise the one likely
winner of this proposed Great and Glorious War —
Communism.
Why Did Unde Turn Away?
The Stunt Press has for years assured its readers that
the U.S.A. would line up with the Democracies against
the Axis Powers, and has published furlongs of arith-
metical tables to prove that its presence in the line-up
would make victory certain. An impediment had
to be overcome; the Neutrality Act stood in the way
of a sympathetic President. He has done his best to
sweep it out of his path ; but the House of Represen-
tatives, in which his own party is still supreme, has
refused him even the power to sell arms and ammu-
nition to Britain and France.
Why? The Stunt Press has not even tried to
explain. Silent also, for once, is the noble band of
American reporters and novelists, whom on other
occasions it has quoted with such gusto —those wander-
ing scribes who can divine a foreign country in ten
minutes or so, and whose most frequent observation
is that “Chamberlain sold out Czechoslovakia.” Lord
Forbes dealt faithfully with these gentry in an article
cabled to “Truth”:
They spend much time attempting to convince us
that Britain should have fought for Memel, Czecho-
slovakia, Abyssinia, Austria and so on. Mr. Louis
Fischer is one of these Americans. He becomes violent
in his attacks upon Britain for not fighting for every
minority in Europe. He is a journalist of ability.
One day I remarked to this Mr. Fischer that I could
not understand why he did not regard it as his first duty
to persuade his own country to fight for democracy.
Mr. Fischer was not at all interested in America fighting
for democracy. He wished Britain to do that for the
Americans.
Melbourne “Age,” which has never joined the
Stunt Press in demanding intervention here, there and
everywhere, and alliances with this, that and the other
Power, has soberly set it down that advocates of
“aloofness and keeping out of European wars” have
won the day.
The event discredits those facile optimists who
regarded as a foregone conclusion American alignment
with Britain and France.
This is the cold truth ; but why have advocates
of “aloofness” won the day?
The report of the Dies Committee may be one
of the reasons. It was a House of Representatives
committee, appointed “to investigate un-American
activities and propaganda.” Its chairman, Mr. Martin
Dies, is one of the members for Texas. The committee
considered Nazism, Fascism and Communism in their
bearings on the United States, and arrived at the con-
clusion that Communism was the worst evil, because
Communism “works to-day to embroil this country
in a foreign war by the propagation of the doctrine of
collective security.” And because U.S. Communism
Is an integral part of a world revolutionary movement;
is under direct control of the Third International, which
has its headquarters in Moscow; seeks ultimately the over-
throw of the American form of government; aims to set
up a dictatorship of the proletariat in this country; rests
upon brutal violence, despite its present dishonest pro-
fession of belief in the processes of democracy; is bound
by no ordinary ethical limitations in seeking to advance
its programme; aims at the complete confiscation of
private property; hides behind civil liberties in pursuing
ends which will destroy civil liberties; is energetically
applying the Trojan Horse tactic of penetrating other
organisations for the purpose of seeking to control
them, or, failing that, to destroy them; is the enemy
of all forms of religion, doing its utmost, neverthe-
less, to make inroads into numerous religious organisa-
tions; is basically a philosophy of hatred which seeks
to promote class war; is boring from within labor
unions on a wide scale; seeks to sabotage and cripple our
economy on every possible front; aligns itself with every
crack-pot scheme to undermine our system of free enter-
prise and private initiative; tries to exploit any existing
discontent for the purpose of building a revolutionary
movement; systematically and deliberately deceives many
of our people by the use of high-sounding names for
organisations... .designed solely to advance the cause of
Communism; exercises extensive influence among several
millions in this country through the device known as the
United Front; persuades thousands of careless or inno-
cent Americans to lend their names for the propagan --
purposes of the Communist party; is diametrically
opposed to the principles of Americanism, as set tort
the Constitution and the Declaration of Independen •
The Stunt Press in Australia, and in Britain, has
been all for an alliance with Soviet Russia. Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” has become so enthusiastic t
it proposes “the extension of the Anglo-Russian P a P,
to Eastern Asia,” proclaiming this “urgent. It wou
be a crime against Australia to the remotest posteri
It would embroil Australia —and Maoriland also -
with a military nation capable, as we know, of loy
friendship, but capable also, as the Russians hav-
found, of enduring hate —with a military nation pos-
sessing, and always likely to possess, great sea-power
in the Pacific, whereas the Russians have so little sea-
power that their hammer-and-sickle flag has never
been seen in the South Pacific ; and, being withou
even an ice-free port, they can never have rnuch.
The Stunt Press has overreached itself. When tne
truth comes out it will be found that it was the blind
advocacy of and the long-continued and humiliating
negotiations for an alliance with the seditious enemy
indicted in the Dies report that gave victory to the
isolationists and destroyed whatever chance there
might have been, not of bringing the United States
into the Franco-British partnership —that was always
impossible—but of inducing it to favor Britain and
France.
"Investigations.”
The Stevens Government is a whale for ordering
“investigations” into all manner of subjects, and par-
ties to the “investigations” are whales for words. __
The Royal Commission “on Allegations against
Police Re Illicit Betting” held two “investigations
which ran into two years and several million words,
and cost the taxpayer just on £20,000. Other results
were that coppers found guilty in the first report were
found not guilty in the second. An “investigation’
concerning the film industry likewise failed to produce
anything weighty except a tome, though it prompted
the Government—still at large —to offer guarantees
of film-co. overdrafts.
The Report on the Monier State Pipe Works is
embalmed in 239 foolscap pages, which may be bought
for 12s. 6d. a copy. Literature dealing with the sale
of the State Brick Works may be had in two volumes
—the papers alone run into 322 closely-printed pages
—for 255. the lot. Any citizen who wishes to find
out whether the Transport Department unfairly spies
on its tram conductors will find the subject exhausted
in 200,000 words, a bargain at 9s. 3d. And for 10s. 9d.
he can get an essay, by a select committee, on the
State abattoirs; for Bs. 3d. the Report of the Investi-
gator under the Milk (Investigation) Act, 1936: 206
pages, llin. by sin., and milk still sevenpence a quart.
For the poor, there are the Report on the “inves-
tigation” into the operations of the Aboriginal Protec-
tion Board (6s. 6d.) and some minor works by Ministers
who have “investigated” education, housing, extraction
of oil from coal and other matters overseas. And
“FitzSimons on Hospitals” will be out some day;
Minister FitzSimons was last heard of in Berlim This
last, with the evidence of witnesses called at the “inves-
tigation” into the affairs of Sydney’s Royal North
Shore Hospital—suspended for a breather after about
700,000 words had been taken down—should form a
fine set of companion volumes, guaranteed to hold
any door closed against a high wind.
The chain-store Report is expected to be the
champion of champions, since the “investigation” has
been proceeding, off and on, for the best part of three
years ; but when the subject was last mentioned the
Report hadn’t been delivered yet, let alone printed.
However, there is the Report on the N. S. Wales Fruit
Industry, by John Edward MeCulloch, LL.B.,
Stipendiary Magistrate.
Mr. McCulloch was commissioned on August 24,
1937, and it was hopefully anticipated that his “investi-
gation” would occupy three months. Before he had
finished, his commission was extended seven times—
for the last time till February 24, 1939.
It takes nine pages to set out the commissions.
The list of witnesses (436).spreads over five pages. The
text of the Report has been condensed into 595 pages,
print being 10Un. long and 4in. broad. It contains
hundreds of illustrations and plans exclusive of these
printed pages. There are 52 pages in three colors
picturing the marketing “spread” of fruits at dif-
ferent seasons, and there is a cartoon showing Willie
Marketing Board dragging by the neck the Banana-
grower —in the guise of a half-strangled pup and
informing the growers that
Another three years of red-tape and regulation would
destroy competition and mean grower strangulation
Lismore’s experience of Board Control has been more
than sufficient. . . ,
The poor old dog s in an awful mess,
Let him escape by voting yes.
That is, voting for the dissolution of the Banana Board.
There are pictures of tree-planting methods ; of
drains ; of lorries laden with fruit; of bananas and
pawpaws damaged by cyclones ; of a peach-tree blown
down by a hurricane; of an apple-tree broken down
by snow, and of lots of bad fruit. There are 200
numbered tables of figures and several hundred un-
numbered ones, including lists of the mileages travelled
by fruit agents’ canvassers. There also is an analysts
of overdrafts, showing that 30 per cent, of all N-S.W.
fruitgrowers are in a sound financial position, 37 pet
cent, in need of financial assistance, 17 per cent, on
unsuitable areas and 16 per cent, inefficient. Some
need as much as £5 10s. per acre, as well as a susten-
ance allowance, to see them through.
Conclusions? Oh, yes —salvation for the growets
lies in the creation of a “central organisation with ade-
quate powers, responsibilities and discretions to
rationalise the means and co-ordinate the facilities foi
marketing fruit,” combined with Government control
of sites and planting. , .
The Report weighs 511 b. and people can get it
for a bagatelle —£2 2s.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Dunstan Compared with Stevens.
An uncontradicted report, published on June 21, of
the Prime Minister’s remarks to the Loan Council on
N.S.W. Government finance mentions that “Mr.
Stevens had told the Council that N.S.W. was facing a
deficit of £2,800,000”— roughly a pound a head in one
twelvemonth —which “serious position had developed
during the last two or three months.”
“The serious position developed” long before “the
last two or three months.” Mr. Stevens has admitted
this in a disingenuous way by attributing his enormous
deficit to “the drought,” which, he asserts, “reduced
wool production by 11 per cent.,” and upon which
“supervened the fall in export prices.”
This is, tersely stated, mainly the reason why the
public accounts for the year have disclosed a deficit.
But the fall in export prices preceded the drought;
and in any case the drought was over “two or three
months” ago. And income-tax extracted from the
N.S.W. woolgrowers during the twelvemonth which
closed with a deficit of £2,801,400 was calculated on
their earnings for the previous twelvemonth. Nor was
the drought confined to N. S. Wales.
The drought had not broken on September 27,
when Mr. Stevens introduced his last Budget. In that
precious combination of unreasoning optimism and
clumsy miscalculations, Mr. Stevens predicted a sur-
plus of £7785, foreshadowing “a further improvement
of £170,500 in the working ‘surplus’ ” of the railways
—which, according to the Auditor-General, went
£24,000,000 to the bad during the 13 years to June 30,
1938. October found Mr. Stevens urging A Drive for
National Security, An Advance on All Fronts, pre-
paratory to wafting himself into the Commonwealth
Treasury, a waft which didn’t come off.
On October 18 Mr. Stevens became Premier with-
out portfolio, having appointed Mr. Mair Treasurer.
On October 19 he moved for “leave to bring in a
bill to make further provision in regard to the allow-
ances to members of the Legislative Assembly and
the salaries of Ministers of the Crown and of certain
other persons,” coolly mentioning that “the bill” would
“become operative as from the first day of the finan-
cial year,” July 1, “to permit the Government to keep
faith with a promise that I personally made to my
colleagues last June.” On October 20 the bill was hur-
ried through the second reading and committee stages
in 16 minutes, and before they knew where they were
the taxpayers found themselves burdened with another
£14,000 p.a. for Ministers, members and officers of
the House, dated back four months.
Already the accounts were in such a state that a
monthly “retrogression” or “retrocession” had had to
be explained away. By the end of December
revenue was £5,083,600 short of expenditure. At the
end of March it was admitted that, instead of a sur-
plus of £7785, there would be a deficit of “approxi-
mately £1,800,000.” To this a million was added when
Mr. Stevens said that a serious position had “de-
veloped during the last two or three months.”
Mr. Dunstan saw what was coming long before
Mr. Stevens did. On November 16, “because Victoria
has experienced the worst drought in its history”—this
is certainly not true of the N.S.W. drought—he
cancelled his previous estimate of a surplus and
prophesied a deficit of £825,000. Although midsummer
brought the bushfires, which were immensely more
destructive of life and property than those experienced
in N. S. Wales, he did not alter his estimate, and he
says it has not been reached. Yet his loan expenditure
was small compared with what Mr. Stevens has had
to play with, in one way and another.
Mr. Dunstan has not given himself less work
and more salary, with four months’ back pay at the
increased rate. He is Premier, Treasurer and Solicitor-
General. If Victoria would swap him for Mr. Stevens,
N. S. Wales, fed to the back teeth with its Premier
(“without portfolio”), would be delighted to make the
exchange.
"French Foresight."
One of the troubles in Britain has been that Mr.
Chamberlain gets very poor support from some of his
colleagues. One of them, since promoted, was in Aus-
tralia a year or two ago, and his blither left the im-
pression that it would be base flattery to appoint him
to the Croajingalong Council. Another is Mr. Hore-
Belisha, the Minister of War. Mr. Hore-Belisha was
“at a dinner given in his honor by the Franco-British
Association,” and Mr. Hore-Belisha let himself go: —
The central objective of Britain and France has
always been identical, but they pursued different paths.
France proceeded with a system of alliances, while
Britain has been traditionally opposed to commitments.
France’s policy has been justified by events, which have
compelled Britain to recognise French foresight.
When and where has “France’s policy” been “justified
by events”? In Spain, where the French have made
themselves hated almost as bitterly as they were hated
during the Napoleonic and Bourbonist invasions? In
Czechoslovakia, where their “system of alliances” fell
to pieces in a day? In Italy or the Balkans or the
Baltic? And what has Britain gained by recognising
“French foresight” and adopting “France’s policy”?
What has happened since John Bull departed
from the policy that made the Empire great and
glorious before Mr. Hore-Belisha was thought of? The
Albanian affair ; the Tientsin affair ; the long crawl to
Moscow-dead scared of the Germans, but stringing
on the “negotiations” to humiliate Britain and Mr.
Chamberlain —return of the Americans to isolation ;
alienation, not only of Spain, but of the decent little
democracies, Finland, Holland, Switzerland, which
won’t have Moscow shoving its bloodstained hand into
their affairs ; the dangerous complication of Danzig;
the worst attack of the jitters since September, and
greedy demands for £100,000,000 or £150,000,000 of
“credits” (i.e., presents) from Poles, Greeks, Turks and
Rumanians, demands already conceded as to
£60,000,000, while loyal little Maoriland gets a liberal
helping of cold shoulder.
Sooner or later John Bull will have to come back
to his Empire. He seems in danger of forgetting that
he has an Empire. He will have to be told that the
three Dominions whose future lies in the Pacific will
not accept it as their destiny to be tied, without so
much as a by-your-leave, to France.
The Hawkins Mystery.
The inquest on N.S.W. Minister for Labor Hawkins,
who on the evening of June 16 fell from a window of
his office on the seventh floor of the A.P.A. building,
Martin-place, Sydney, has deepened rather than dis-
pelled the mystery surrounding the tragic occurrence.
The window-sill was 3ft. 3|in. from the floor.
The coroner very reasonably concluded that “it would
be impossible for a man with his feet on the floor to
fall out of the window. If, while looking out, his
feet slipped, he would have slipped back from the
window and could not possibly have fallen out.” But
“if he had his feet off the floor or was standing on a
chair he could quite simply fall through the window.”
Startling evidence was given by the caretaker, who
testified that “about” 9.45 p.m. on May 31 he had seen
Mr. Hawkins sitting astride the window-sill. Going
out of the building into Phillip-street, he “saw a head
bob out of the Minister’s window three times.” And
only a few minutes before the tragedy occurred, he saw
the light in the Minister’s room go out. Entering, he
found Mr. Hawkins rising from a stooping position
near the window. When a cleaner told him a man had
fallen into the street, he said “I know it’s Hawkins.”
Evidence as to the straddling of the window-sill
was flatly rejected by the coroner. It was shown that
the Minister was in Parliament at 9.41 p.m. on the night
of May 31 and voted on a division. His chauffeur
said he had not driven the Minister from the Leg.
Council Chamber to the A.P.A. building that night.
But it is only a stone’s-throw from one edifice to the
other, and a man could walk from the Council
Chamber to the A.P.A. building and be in a seventh-
floor office in two minutes —three at the outside.
Testimony was accepted from people who could
know nothing of the circumstances, such as Mr. Sam
Walder, of the U.A.P., that the Minister couldn’t pos-
sibly have committed suicide. It is not suggested that
he did. But caretakers are a cool-headed and obser-
vant breed, and the A.P.A. people must have been
satisfied that their caretaker was a man with excellent
credentials or they would not have employed him. It
is very rough on him to be branded as a liar on the
score of evidence given in the performance of his duty
as a citizen when there was no direct rebutting evidence.
i
The Cameron Man.
Mr. Archie Cameron, M.H.R., who doesn’t care
whose toes he treads on, has been treading on more
toes. Being a Lib. and Country League man, free to
support at Canberra either the Cockies or the U.A.P.,
he naturally for a U.A.P.-U.C.P. Government, but
this “the conflict between two strong political per-
sonalities” forbids. Not that it could be overcome by
the retirement of Dr. Page.
A considerable section of the present Federal Coun-
try party is averse to co-operation in a composite
Government. I doubt whether the party could be re-
united under the leadership of Dr. Page, but I am still
certain that it will not be reunited under present con-
ditions in the event of his retirement.
Mr. Cameron has noted “tendencies” in Queensland,
N.S.W. and Westralia “to follow in Federal politics
the lead given by the Victorian Country party in
State politics.”
This would result in the Federal Country party holding .
aloof from all political intercourse with the U.A.P.,
and avoiding the responsibilities of office, unless there
should eventuate a Commonwealth Country party based
on the Victorian precedent.
And the member for Barker has no use for the Vic-
torian precedent; in fact, he has rejected it in animated
controversies with Premier Dunstan and Mr. Lamb,
M.L.A. He is for unity, first, last and all the time.
But —
Complete unity depends on community of objective
and uniformity of method ; on the leadership being
vested in a man who must be the undisputed choice
of the party, and on the complete cessation of the
campaign of intrigue and underground engineering
which has marred the party during the past four years.
One of the chief intriguers was removed at the last
election, and others may follow at the next.
There is no need to ask who, in Mr. Cameron’s
opinion, the Man should be. Still, the Country party
jcould go further and fare a lot worse ; and so could
Australia. If a Cameron Government were to follow
the Menzies Government, it would probably get an
unholy licking when it went to the country, inasmuch
as it would quicken the feeling that a Labor Adminis-
tration was overdue. But in the meantime it would
do things, and they would be remembered if Labor
went off its head again or spoke with too many voices.
The Unlicensed Driver.
The futility of the laws which govern the issue of
motor licenses and the punishment of motoring
offences has been illustrated at Gosford (N.S.W.). A
man was charged with having driven without a license,
crossed a yellow line to the wrong side of the road
and given a false name. Police evidence was that he
had been found tearing away at night a foot from
the footpath on the wrong side. He produced a Vic-
torian license in the name of Gilbert Fehr, but the
constable recognised him as James Scott, a bookmaker.
The prosecuting sergeant on his record:
Defendant has six pages of convictions, totalling
141, eight of which were for dangerous driving and 10
for being an unlicensed driver. Fines total £504 and
convictions embrace Victoria, N. S. Wales and Queens-
land.
The fellow had been refused a license in N. S. Wales
and the registration of his car had been cancelled. He
was fined £lO for driving without a license, £5 for
crossing the yellow line and £2 for giving a false name.
For all the good such penalties are likely to do,
the S.M., instead of fining Scott, alias Fehr, £l7, might
just as well have presented him with an order on the
Sydney Government for £l7, payable out of the next
loan and chargeable to “Agricultural Development.' 5
Cases of this sort call for a general revision of
licensing laws throughout the Commonwealth.
In Europe, all international licenses carry a pass-
port picture of a license holder and. his signature ;
and the license is linked with the car which he drives.
Queensland has introduced a modified form of the
system of pinning the license on the car as well as on
the driver. What is needed is a uniform type of
license current throughout Australia with proper iden-
tification safeguards and provision for real punishment.
The unlicensed driver is generally a dangerous
driver. He is either a young joyriding hoodlum —
perhaps, if the car is stolen, with a “gat,” a mask and
a crime magazine in his pockets—or somebody who
has a very good reason for not applying for a license.
And gaol is not too stiff a penalty, whichever class he
belongs to.
Wreckers at Work.
In spite of protests from everybody interested in the
history of Australia, wreckers have been tearing down
the old Commissariat Stores near Sydney’s Circular
Quay, and Macquarie’s stores adjoining are to follow.
The Commissariat Stores were a landmark in Aus-
tralian progress. Begun after the Bligh rebellion, they
represent the first attempt to put up an enduring
public building on this continent. They represent more
than that. They were erected after a period of flood
and famine when the population of N. S. Wales, a
mere 10,000, sat on the edge of starvation, when it was
necessary for the Government to issue rations to all.
Governor Macquarie, on arrival, found the stores
almost completed but containing only 100 bushels of
grain. Determined that such a thing should never
happen again, he started his building programme with
the George-street stores. They were completed at a
time when the Home Government was debating
whether it would not be cheaper to import wheat from
India rather than to grow it in N. S. Wales.
A granary provided, there was no hesitation about
putting thousands of fresh acres under wheat and open-
ing several new districts.
But the Stevens Government has no sense of
history, save of its own sorry history, and no sense
of the tourist value of these buildings properly used.
When their destruction is complete, the vandals will
move on.
They intend to tear down the old Convict Bar-
racks, one of Greenway’s finest buildings, though clut-
tered now with modern additions ; also the building
which housed the first Judges’ chambers and mint in
Australia. They have doomed the Court House in
which the first meeting was held—in October, 1825 —
to ask the Imperial Government to establish a House
of Assembly. And they propose to destroy the exist-
ing N. S. Wales Parliament House.
This last may not be ornamental, but it is nearly
as decorative as the Chapter House at Westminster
Abbey, in which the first British Parliaments met and
through which tens of thousands of tourists pass every
year. In it, D’Arcy Wentworth lived, father of
the first Australian patriot. There young William
Wentworth wrote his first speeches and framed his
first ideals. There he lived after he had become the
first son of Australia to be appointed to a senior civil
service office. There the first Parliament on Austra-
lian soil met, and from there Edmund Barton went to
become first Prime Minister of the Commonwealth.
Soon this group of buildings—unique in the his-
tory of any country—will be dust because the Stevens
Government cannot find other sites on which to erect
its slab-faced terra-cotta skyscrapers, which are mostly
unnecessary anyhow.
Night Life in Melbourne.
“C.R.”: Victoria’s police chief Duncan is projecting
a campaign for closing foreign “clubs” which have
sprung up in Melbourne and suburbs. These clubs are
ostensibly for dancing and social intercourse, but it
is alleged that they have four other reasons for exist-
ence, drug-selling, drink-selling, gambling and solicita-
tion ; also that criminals make the same use of them
that businessmen make of the Melbourne Club and
suchlike institutions —for getting in touch with profes-
sional colleagues.
Social clubs are not registered owing to the diffi-
culty of discriminating between the respectable and
the disreputable. A club can start off by being repu-
table and end by becoming a vice den. By giving
police officers the power to declare vice dens to be
suspected premises and to quarantine them so that
persons entering or leaving can be arrested without
warrant the Government hopes to eliminate them.
So it may. But it won’t eliminate the criminal.
He can go and hatch his crimes in backyards. And it
won’t eliminate the individual who doesn’t think it is
a crime to have a drink after six o’clock because the
Government says it is one.
The first thing that strikes Europeans when they
land in Melbourne is the extraordinary gloominess of
the place after nightfall. In most European cities
cafes, cabarets and hotels can stay open all night if
they care to, and a citizen can have a drink when he
wants a pleasant feeling or when he feels thirsty.
And there is less drunkenness in European cities
than in Melbourne. There, the theory is that if
pubs stayed open after six o’clock half of the popula-
tion would go to the devil. So the man who likes an
occasional drink is flung out on his ear at six o’clock
with his sociableness undiminished.
The demand being there, night clubs are started. As
they are more or less under the lap there is nothing
more natural than that, the criminal, the drug-seller,
the drug-taker, the spieler and the lydy should find
them a great convenience.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: As another admirer of
“S. M. Herald’s” staunch stand for re-
spectability, let me add to the story from
Tientsin of the lady who was reduced to
“a very scanty garment” this improving
tale of a photograph. On July 1 Mel-
bourne “Argus” carried an illustration
of the floods at Wangaratta (Vic.) —a
house surrounded by the swirling waters,
a family standing knee-deep outside their
door, the man holding a baby in his
arms and the wife holding her skirts out
of the wet far enough to reveal quite an
extent of a not-so-scanty garment. On
July 4 “Granny” reproduced what was
apparently the same photograph: house
and floodwaters, husband and baby and
spouse, all were there. But the under-
garment had disappeared. Whoever
touches up the photographs before the
Old Lady offers them to the world had
lowered the skirt to Hunter-street levels
again, drawing a curtain over Mel-
bourne’s wicked bloomer.
* * * *
“S.”: Siam’s new name, Muang Thai,
has the noble meaning of “Land of the
Free,” but the pronunciation of Siamese,
as with Chinese, is full of tonal traps,
and Westerners will have to be careful.
A lucky mispronunciation will make it
“The Kingdom of the Redeemed” or
“The Land of the Long Purse” ; but a
nation that pays so much attention to
formal courtesy isn’t likely to approve
of the other possible variations —“The
Marsh of Those Who Creep Like
Worms,” “The Dead Kingdom” or
(joyously) “Distended Entrails.”
* * *
“S.A.D.”: I watch with awed admira-
tion Sydney “Sun’s” campaign of bally-
hoo to popularise Works Minister
Spooner. For weeks we had the servant
of the people Giving Up Smoking, happy
little interviews with him on the agonies
of the process, pictures of him saying
“No!” to a cigarette with sad, sad firm-
ness. The latest is an extraordinary inter-
view with his chauffeur. “He has told
me off more than any other man, in the
State,” Mr. Spooner had informed the
reporters:
“It’s nothing, really,” said Bill modestly
to-day. “We don’t squabble much. The
boss is too good a chap for that....
Generally I don’t have, to tick him off
about anything unless, of course, he
goes and does something like what he
said about me last night.”
Bill concluded with the tribute: “He’s a
steady, hard-working chap, and never
asks an employee to do anything he isn’t
prepared to do himself.” And, truly,
Mr. Spooner himself is prepared to
undergo interviews in the public interest
every bit as fatuous as the one Bill en-
dured. I wonder what are their views on
the modern girl and who is their favorite
film star.
* * * *
“Colbun”: The khaki infantry uniform
seems likely to disappear in the near
future. Although it looks a simple enough
color, attainment of the standard tint in-
volves serious manufacturing complica-
tions, including matching half a dozen
basic tints to rigid standards. Also, there
is a large and growing body of evidence
based on scientific research to show that
it fails, dangerously, to fulfil its original
and primary purpose of camouflage. If
a one-color rig must be retained, other
tints, much easier to obtain, are superior
to khaki in breaking up monochrome
surfaces and minimising visible outlines
of masses of troops. In trench warfare
any tint rapidly becomes that of the soil
in which the trenches are sited. For
operations in the open, a harlequin effect
with loose-topped “gorblimey” caps
affords the greatest measure of camou-
flage, but no War Office would dare to
face the uproar from Colonel Blimp over
such unsoldierly garb.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: A Melbourne grocer
doing business in a new district near
Williamstown was driving home at night
through blinding rain when he felt a
bump and stopped the car. He was sur-
prised when he found that the rain was
coming in through all the windows, and
more surprised when it began to rise
through the floor. The car then made a
sudden dive, and in a few moments was
an aquarium, with the grocer doing the
“What, leave tuppence in the box when the ’ phone's crook ?”
goldfish act inside it. He was fourteen
feet down on the bottom of the Yarra,
having inadvertently driven over the
ramp of the Williamstown ferry. After
vainly trying to break the glass (an im-
possible performance under water) he
wound down a window and swam ashore,
subsequently getting to bed suffering
from nothing worse than a cut nose and
a bad chill.
* * * *
“Shaym(hic)gain”: Why don’t the
blokesh what ownsh the breweriesh give
couponsh an’ get women’sh sh’porl in
promhicmotin’ shalesh? Wifesh gorrer
lorrer towelsh an’ things outa couponsh.
Alwaysh tryin’ make me drink tea an’
wash meshelf, sho’sh she’ll get more
couponsh, but I ain’t goin’ take coatsh
off the old shtomach or get pnoomhic-
monia washin’ in thish weather. Shpose
she got couponsh on barrels uv beer?
Wouldn’t ’aveter plant it in flamin’ fowl-
houshe sho’sh have shomethin’ to cool
coppersh in mornin’ then. No flamin’ tea
neither. “Gorrer nishe borreler beer fer
yer breakfasht, darlin’,” she’d be shayin’.
“Wouldn’ yer like ’nother, dear?” Talk
’bout honeymoonsh! Worr Aushtralia
wantsh is more ’appy ’omesh. Thazzer
way ter get ’em. No more neglected
wivesh. No need washte time at pubsh.
’Usban’s getsh beer, wivesh getsh table-
clothsh, towelsh, fancy pyjamash, every-
one ’appy an’ contented, no extra cosht.
Wommore d’yer want?
* * * *
■ “Colbun”: In the queer-names line (B.
28/7/’39), the Commonwealth’s once-
famous “Alphabetical “Conant” (imp.)
should qualify for a place. A Vic-
torian police magistrate, he sported
the sonorous monikers of Peling Hugh
Gough Pigott Stainsby Conant. Of
others, a son of the handsome N. S.
Wales family of Rottens was chris-
tened Justinian Toon, and inevitably
became Just Too Rotten for the re-
mainder of his days. Amongst the
respectable monotony of Davis, the name
of Dr. Zerrubbabel of the ilk stood out
resplendent in Victorian directories for
many years. • A Miss Mehitabel Mudd
taught dancing in Perth of the 1890’s,
but changed her name on marriage to
one Slinger, appropriately enough a
polemic journalist of the most warlike
goldfields epoch. A recent Queensland
wedding, Balder-Dash, suggests possible
supplementation of the next-generation
ranks of press authorities on European
politics.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Too much imagination, or a
bad memory, is the trouble of an
Adelaide boy of 16 whose job was
delivering goods in a blackboard. He was
escorted to a police-station by his mother
on a Saturday afternoon, having just
returned “doped” from Milbrook Reser-
voir. He explained that he had, at Port
Adelaide, “noticed a peculiar smell like
ammonia in his truck, and everything
went black ; the next thing he remem-
bered was waking up,” 20 miles out in
the hills. Later, he apologised for having
told lies, and offered the “truth” —two
unknown men at the Port who had at
revolver point made him drive them,
Finally came the real and simple explana-
tion. “Two lads asked me to drive them
out. The shop was closed when I got
back, and I was afraid of getting into
trouble.”
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The civic lust for destruction
isn’t confined in Victoria to Melbourne,
Portland where the late centenary ought
to have been celebrated rather than in
Melbourne, is contemplating putting the
axe to the magnificent quarter-mile of
Lamberfiana (cypress) which are the
chief glory of Bentinck-street, its main
thoroughfare. It is over 100 years since
Henty planted them.
* * * *
“Fi. fa.”: A neat question in land
tenure has arisen at what was Stradbroke
Island, off Southport, some 60 miles
south of Brisbane. Three years ago,
several persons owned land at the
southerly end, some hundreds of yards
from the sea and included in the parish
of Mondrewa. The sea broke through
and left them on a new island, but still
in Mondrewa parish. The new channel
widened and moved north, the old
channel narrowed and also moved north
until it covered the island and washed
away their land. Then a sandspit grew
out to northward from the mainland and
eventually reached what had been succes-
sively Stradbroke and Tragedy islands,
Now it seems likely to become reasonably
permanent land, but, although it occupies
the exact sites of the original holdings,
the former owners have no title to it.
It is now in the parish of Gilston, the
parish boundary being the centre of the
channel between Stradbroke Island and
the adjacent mainland.
“X.S.”: A canary has achieved fame
in Melbourne. Its frenzied chirrupping
aroused its owner, a woman who sleeps
at the top of a city building. Wondering
what was the cause of its agitation, she
went down a few storeys and found a
fire in progress. Eight occupants of the
building were aroused and were rescued
from the second floor by firemen. The
owner has since refused an offer of £2OO
for her watchbird. It had previously
done her the same service with regard
to a gang of burglars.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: I was riding on the cable-
tram which potters along Bourke-street,
Melbourne, a couple of months ago when
I overheard a businessman complaining
to another businessman of the miserable
state of communications between Perth
and Melbourne. After listening for a
while, I discovered that his grouch was
that the Australian National Airways
took two bites at the hop between the
two capitals, which inflicted on him the
appalling wrong of a night spent in Adel-
aide. This was remedied the other day
when a daily service was inaugurated,
Captain Croucher, S.A. superintendent,
bringing the Bungana to Essendon at
10 p.m., having left the western capital
at 8.45 that morning. Radio beacons at
Adelaide, Nhill and Melbourne and the
direction-finding apparatus at Laverton
made the feat so commonplace and ordi-
nary that amongst the eight passengers
was a mother with a year-old baby. I
wonder how long it will be before a
couple of businessmen on a Melbourne
cable-tram will be complaining that they
can’t get from Perth to Melbourne and
back again between breakfast-time and
dinner.
* * =:■ *
“Adelaide”: Death from being
startled by a stray football has been
seriously alleged in an Adelaide inquest.
A. woman of 57 was passing a school
with her husband when the ball came
over the wall, without touching her, but
she fell backwards. She was treated at
a hospital and sent home. A week after
she was taken ill, and a week later she
died. The surgeons called it haemorrhage
of the brain.
* ■ * * *
“Pedagoggle”: F. H. Smith, a former
(N.S.W.) Director of Education, initiated
the first primary school correspondence
course in N. S. Wales, and his first pupil
was a small boy in the Moree district
named Jim Brittingham, whose education
had been interrupted by the closing of
the local subsidised school; but it was
continued by Mr. Smith, by post, in his
own spare time. This Blackfriars Corre-
spondence School, which this year cele-
brated its twenty-first birthday, serves the
educational needs of hundreds of children
in inaccessible areas throughout the State.
One of the star pupils taught by the sys-
tem is William O’Neill, a psychologist
attached to the vocational section of the
N.S.W. Department of Labor and In-
dustry. He is a graduate of Sydney
University, but got his first schooling by
post as an 11-year-old boy living on a
farm 60 miles from Rowena.
POKER MACHINES.
“Chief Secretary Gollan has ukased that all Sydney
clubs must discontinue the use of poker machines.”
Poker machines, poker machines,
Banned and banished from social scenes,
Now that officialdom decrees
A sticky end to all things like these,
Where a sprat or a thrum provides the bait
To bring reward in a full or straight,
In fours or flushes —even “routines”
One hears of sometimes on poker machines.
Poker machines, poker machines!
What matter whether they pay in beans
Or tricky tokens for which cigars
And drinks are bartered in glitt’ring bars?
As pits for fellows with bunce to burn
They give our Gollan extreme concern,
And at last authority intervenes
To put the kibosh on poker machines.
Poker machines, poker machines!
You may blew your boodle by lots of means,
On lottery tickets, no need to relate,
Provided the flutter’s run by the State;
You may lawfully traffic in stocks and shares,
Get tossed by bulls or get hugged by bears,
Be stripped by books to your shirt and jeans,
But you’ve gotter be saved from poker
machines!
Poker machines, poker machines!
Harmless gadgets? Tell that to marines!
Though crime runs riot in city streets,
With cops short-handed on half their beats,
Though brutal violence and cunning fraud
And barefaced villainy stalk abroad,
At least and at last a new broom cleans
This neck of the woods from poker machines!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Cauboy”: The other evening at one
of her Melbourne Town Hall concerts,
Miss Lawrence was about to engage on
a topnote when one of the platform
population, sitting just beside her,
sneezed. It was such a staccato sneeze
that it brought the whole house upstand-
ing. Miss Lawrence stopped, looked sur-
prised and then started laughing. The
sneezer laughed too, and this made Miss
L. laugh more than ever. The house
then started laughing also, and proceed-
ings were temporarily suspended. Other
singers have reacted differently to inter-
ruptions. On one occasion a very famous
Australian diva was singing at the Audi-
torium when a dowager in the front, in
an endeavor to stifle a cough, let out a
snort that shook the rafters. The diva
controlled herself successfully, but her
face went black as midnight, and her lips
framed a phrase which one didn’t have
to be an expert in lip-reading to know-
cast a grave reflection on the origin of
the snorter.
* * s» * .
“Uramao”: The carpenters who
mimicked bank clerks’ accent in count-
ing (B. 14/6/’39) recall the experience
of Allan Wilkie and his troupers when
rehearsing a Shakspearean play in a M.L.
theatre while bricklayers were at work in
the building. The row they made be-
came so great that Wilkie stopped the
rehearsal. Followed a deep silence,
broken at last by the voice of a “brickie.”
“Prithee, Malapert, hand me yon brick,”
he declaimed to his mate.
* * Ms *
“Chevroford ’: The aptest comment on
the public demonstrations which periodi-
cally emanate from Melbourne’s premier
seat of learning has been made by a
constable on point duty in Collins-street.
Two drags drove down the street filled
with undergraduate young gentlemen and
ladies in fancy dress blowing toy trum-
pets and yelling, their hearts out. With
a screeching of wheels a cloud of motor-
bikes, baby-cars and decrepit vehicles of
all sorts packed with more self-conscious
stunters whirled round the intersection
and tore after them. “What’s that in aid
of?” asked a bystander of the police-
man. “Lads and lassies from the Univer-
sity having a paperchase through the
city,” remarked the man in blue. “Is
that permitted?” asked the onlooker.
“Oh, yes, I suppose so, as long as they
behave themselves.” Then he added with
a grin, “What brains it must take to
think a thing like that out!” and turned
his attention to the direction of the
traffic.
* * * *
“Synodsman”: The Anglican commu-
nity in N.S.W., never averse to a barney,
is enjoying itself just now with the lipstick
controversy initiated by the Bishop of
Willochra (S.A.). His Lordship has
decided that he can excommunicate any
woman who comes to the communion
table with paint on her lips, and he
threatens to do so. He has had moral
support from Canon Hammond and other
authorities, ecclesiastical and medi-
cal. The only commentator who
seems to have examined the legal
implications of the ban is another Ham-
mond, the reverend principal of Moore
Theological College, who cites the Book
of Common Prayer as his authority for |
the statement that if the crook-bearer of j
Willochra bars persons from the com-
munion table he implies that such per-
sons are “open and notorious evil-livers”
or persons “betwixt whom the curate per-
ceiveth malice and hatred to reign.” In
“ Should've told you that Was there, Mum. Tripped over it meself yesterday."
either case a serious allegation is in-
volved, and the subject of it has a remedy
in an action for defamation of character.
Such an action, says Principal Hammond,
was successfully taken in England by a
man denied the sacrament because he
married his deceased wife’s sister.
* * * *
“Unity”: When the new teacher
arrived at the remote hamlet of Wunga-
bunga she decided to take a room at the
hotel in preference to trying life on one
of the small farms. Her slumbers the
first night were nil on account of the
appalling snoring of a man domiciled
on the other side of the passage. In the
dim dawn she looked into the passage
and found Bill, the handyman, polishing
the furniture. “Who is that person who
snores so frightfully?” demanded Miss
Teachem. “I didn’t sleep a wink last
night.” On learning that the snorer was
the stationmaster and a permanent, Miss
Teachem said she would leave. “Aw, y’
needn’t do that, miss,” Bill said kindly.
“ ’E only snores when ’e gits on ’is back.
The bloke that ’ad your room last just
useter slip in an’ push ’im over on ’is
side. You do that, miss, an’ y’ won’t
’ave no more trouble.”
* * * *
“D.F.”: A reissue is proposed of the
Australian best-seller that pioneered the
modern detective novel, Fergus Hume’s
Mystery of a Hansom Cab. The first
edition of this, published in Melbourne,
is now one of the world’s rarest books.
The Mitchell Library has a copy, but
there is none in the British Museum.
Later it was sold by the hundred thou-
sand. It will not be amongst the Austra-
ban works of which reissues are to be
financed by the Commonwealth Literary
Fund. Some of these are now being
looked out. They will be works not
likely to be republished in the ordinary
way.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The Council of Education
recently approached Mr. Menzies with a
request that refugees from Europe should
be submitted to a test of their knowledge
of English after 12 months’ residence in
this country. I wonder whether the mem-
. c -i • ■
bers of the council ever mix with the
people about whose linguistic needs they
are so concerned. I met a Hungarian
the other day who six weeks ago shipped
aboard a liner for Australia with no
knowledge of English whatsoever We
got into a on art, and I found
no more drfficulty in discussing it with
im than I would with one of my fellow-
countrymen with the same interests. Then
it turned out that he was an architect.
His familiarity with Australian termi-
nology was indeed surprising, but there
was a simple explanation. Two days
after landing—he had been in Australia
only a week—he got temporary employ-
ment with an architectural firm merely to
learn the local jargon. I met him in
the morning, and by the afternoon I
observed that he seemed to be talking
with more facility than ever. Words and
phrases which he had heard in use for
the first time that day he was now begin-
ning to use with the utmost confidence,
By the time we parted he had learnt more
about my language from me than I learnt
"She's sewing him up for me — I've got a sore finger."
about three foreign languages from my
scholastic teachers. There is nothing re-
markable in this. In small European
countries it is necessary to know several
languages from childhood, and to add
another is no great effort.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: Touching historic mis-
prints (B. 28/7/’39). Melbourne
“Herald” perpetrated one the other day,
apparently. It publishes a “Fifty Years
Ago To-day” column, and in a recent
issue appeared the following:
In the matter of statues we ought not to
let Ballarat get ahead of us, but at once
engage in friendly artistic rivalry. Let us
combine, as Australians, in the erection of
a statue of the greatest uninspired teacher
the world has ever known —William Shak-
speare.
Now, was “uninspired” a modern
error, was the deed done by a dead-and-
gone compositor (the “Herald” reproduc-
ing the bloomer out of zeal for historical
correctness), or is it a subtle bit of
literary criticism?
* * * *
“Koura”: A family of Maoriland Jews
has turned to good account the annoy-
ance it felt when the influx of refugees
focused some attention on the race.
Feeling that they had much more in
common with Maorilanders than with the
immigrants, the members of the family
decided to change their decidedly Hebraic
name to something British. But they
weren’t swapping a proud and ancient
label for any mere Smith or Jones or
Robinson: they took one that would
imply that their ancestors came over with
William the Conqueror. It wasn’t Chol-
mondeley, but was every bit as aristo-
cratic.
* * * # *
“Nakhoda”: A controversy started by
some “Argus” correspondent is raging
in Melbourne over dogs
in the subbubs. Half the
articulate portion of the
population is furiously
for the dog and the other
half is against it. The
former seem to see their
pets as charming crea-
tures, without vice or bad
habits, and such benefits
to the community that
nobody would wish to
harm them. The latter
paint a picture which
recalls the Constan-
tinople of twenty years
ago, when the city was
overrun with starving,
ferocious mongrels in
such multitudes that the
Government took the
heroic Turkish measure
of transporting the whole
lot to an island in the
Bosphorus and leaving
them to their own
devices. Two Euro-
peans who went to in-
vestigate the result of this
experiment were landed
from a boat and started
inland; a few days later
police were sent to see
what had become of them and found a
few buttons.
THE BELLE OF THE BEACH.
“The belle of the ballroom has passed into oblivion,
for a substitute we have the belle of the beach.”
—“Other Fellow’s Mind/’ B. 5/7/’39.
The belle of the ballroom has parted
With the laurels that once were her boast;
She’s outmoded, outshone, and outsmarted,
And left, so to speak, at the post
By a newer and nattier clinah,
A different sort of a peach,
The conquering seaside regina,
The belle of the beach.
The belle of the ball was a vision
Of radiant beauty, we’ll own,
But she never secured the decision
On comely appearance alone.
Her frock must be just as delicious,
The coveted title to reach,
But there’s none of such aid adventitious
For the belle of the beach.
The ball belle maybe had a bigger
Endowment of charm and of grace,
But she banked a lot less on her figure,
I fancy, and more on her face.
Her curves and her contours were hidden
Discreetly from all and from each,
But no such displayment’s forbidden
The belle of the beach.
The belle of the ball, never doubt it,
At beauty adprned was a whiz,
But she had to be gowned—and without it
Who knows what she was' or she is?
And though wowsers may grow hightv-tighty,
When of costumes defective they preach.
I'll venture to bet she’s a mighty
Lot nearer the Greek’s Aphrodite,
The belle of the beach!
n-s.w.
PIPARDS.


CRAVENA
are kinder . •
to the throat
M
m
: ?
wm
10 for 9 D 50 for 3'9
20 for I'6 100 for 7'6
*2
m
m
m
2819
MADE SPECIALLY JO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
Canberra reports that the Common-
wealth’s financial year closed with a sur-
plus of £627,200 and that value of ex-
ports exceeded value of imports by
£11,676,000 Australian. The financial
position is better than it looks, the trade
position worse than it looks. On mer-
chandise alone there was an unfavorable
balance of £3,726,000, exports of bullion
and specie making up the difference. An
excess of over £22,000,000 is needed to
meet overseas engagements.
Lost, Stolen or Strayed, a Major
Crisis, also answering to the name of
The Issue Joined. Reward on returning
to Editor, “Morning Herald,” Hunter-
street, Sydney, or S. H. Roberts, Pro-
fessor, Sydney University.
The first July “crisis” made thousands
of Sydney people very sore. It was pre-
ceded and accompanied by long-familiar
fictions, acknowledged and unacknow-
ledged—Mussolini had seen Hitler, Mus-
solini had seen the Pope, Madame
Tabouis had said this and that; and so
on. But newspapers were “had” as well
as the public. They hurriedly assembled
staffs and had them waiting long hours
(at overtime rates) for the war that didn’t
arrive.
From the “Daily Telegraph,” pub-
lished in Sydney, Australia:
England’s frontiers are no longer the
Channel, and no longer even the Rhine.
The Vistula and the Danube are as im-
portant to Britain as the chalk cliffs of
Dover.
The usual howl for “the signing of the
Anglo-Russian Pact” followed, and if
the thing is signed England’s frontiers
will naturally shift to the Moskowa or
perhaps the Urals. Inclusion of the Far
East, demanded by this “Australian”
paper, will mean that Vladivostok and
Sakhalin become “England’s frontiers.”
“Meanwhile,” the “D.T.” croaks, “we
must not weaken.” “We” are perhaps
Alsatians.
In one week, Congress fell heavily on
Roosevelt’s $1,808,300,000 Relief Bill,
his authority to buy foreign silver, his
power to devalue the dollar again and his
Neutrality Act amendments; and, al-
though its committees relented on some
points, neutrality in foreign wars is still
insisted upon. If Congress has its finger
on the pulse of American opinion—and
there are still Democratic majorities in
both Houses —there will be no third term
for the President, nor even a third can-
didature.
A Canberra correspondent has re-
minded Commonwealth Ministers that
there is still “a floating deficit of some
£15,000,000, a legacy from the red-ink
budgeting during the depression years.”
But what’s £15,000,000? It’s not nearly
as much as the loss on the N. S. Wales
Government railways for 13 years to
June 30, 1937, as estimated by the
Auditor-General; and he admits it was
an underestimate. That total, as under-
estimated, was £23,215,600; and the
Stevens idea seems to be that it is all in
the pockets of the people.
Why have recent loans failed? The
Commonwealth Bank gives four reasons:
(1) The national income is down; (2)
“semi-Government” borrowing is up;
(3) by guaranteeing building-society over-
drafts the Sydney Government was the
means of diverting £10,000,000 which
would otherwise have been available for
loan subscriptions, and (4) chiefly because
of (3) “the support of insurance com-
panies, State savings banks and super-
annuation funds for Government loans
is now negligible”—so much so that the
Commonwealth Bank itself had to con-
tribute “£12,000,000 of £35,000,000 raised
in 14 months.” In other words, the Syd-
ney Government has been allowed to
milk the market so recklessly that the
market has run dry. Its insatiable Mr.
Stevens is now ordering the Common-
wealth Bank Board to find a further
supply of juice somewhere and some-
how.
Maoriland’s Mr. Nash said in Dublin
that M.L. was unlikely to send troops
overseas if Britain became involved in
war. Mr. Jordan would have looked gal-
lant indeed as the sole member of the
army of intervention he wanted to send
to Abyssinia, Spain and, latterly, China.
TOUGH-GUY TONY.
“Mr. Anthony Eden’s latest advice to Britain is ‘Be tough, look tough, talk tough
and act tough.’”
Perusal of Sydney daily papers must
make woolgrowers very sour these days.
After the latest war scare and another
issue of demands for “action” against the
only countries that were buying much
wool towards the end of the season, they
came upon this item:
Bradford merino importers were dis-
appointed with the Brisbane wool sales.
German and Japanese buying limits were
too high for Bradford competition.
“Too high for Bradford competition.”
Although the average was up 5 p.c. it
didn’t exceed lid. a pound. Wasn’t it
Mr. Stevens who assured the woolgrowers
that they needn’t worry if foreigners kept
out of the market, since Bradford would
see them through? Or was it just Brad-
ford, philanthropic Bradford?
With record figures for State exports,
sugar and dairy cheques, cheque turnover
and bank deposits, Queensland’s annual
stocktaking to June 30 is very satisfac-
tory. Exports topped £28,500,000 for the
year, and for the first time Queensland
led all other States as a producer and
exporter of butter. And Forgan Smith
produced a surplus (of £14,000) —the first
for 11 years and the only one among all
the States.
Dwyer-Gray is to be Tas. Premier,
“without portfolio,” till December 31.
Fancy a province with a population of
240,000 having a Premier “without port-
folio ! ”
The brisk boys of the Trades and
Labor Councils are forgathering in Mel-
bourne to decide whether their boycott
of the national register is to go on. If
it goes on a lot of them will go out.
Their public meetings have been washouts
and union after union has notified them
that strict observance of the law under
the Commonwealth Constitution —not
Stalin’s—is the tradition and policy of
the Labor party and that it believes in
Labor.
There has been a very remarkable in-
quest into the death of N.S.W. Minister
Hawkins. One of the witnesses, “a
motor driver employed by the N.S.W.
Government,” said he had driven Hawkins
for “about seven years,” and Hawkins
was only an honorary most of the time.
Two days previously at a U.A.P. party
on the showboat Jack Lang —no, Kalang
—Minister Spooner mentioned proudly
that his driver had driven him “some
300,000 miles.” There are nine-and-ninety
ways of losing £2,800,400 in one year on
a revenue of over £l7 per head plus £5
or £6 per head in loans, and car-riding is
one of them.
All N.S.W. Ministers and members
have free passes good for all the Govern-
ment railways, which are insolvent, and
all the Government trams and buses,
which are alleged to make profits faintly
visible through the most powerful micro-
scopes. The Government caravans are
too slow for Ministers at least, but they
are reckoned fast enough for taxpayers,
and there are all sorts of devices designed
to compel taxpayers to ride in them.
Those who think they would like to see
something of the country in service cars
have to pay a thumping tax for the privi-
lege. Sometimes they can’t see the land-
scape for the dust thrown up by Govern-
ment cars in which Ministers —there are
15 —do the grand and ride on the nod.
A Sydney branch of the U.A.P. has
come out for abolition of the useless
Legislature in Macquarie-street and the
superfluous Ministerial offices surround-
ing it, and for national union under one
Parliament. A circus that awarded itself
another £14,000 p.a., dated back four
months, during a year which closed with
a loss of £2,800,400, and went on a loan
drunk as well, is rotten-ripe for abolition.
Queensland’s Protestant Labor party is
under new management. The boss is now
E. H. Graham, who stood for Federal
Griffith. According to Graham, Webb,
the late boss —Webb stood for two
Assembly seats —resigned and the late
secretary and treasurer and five others
have been expelled. Webb protests that
they haven’t been expelled ; like himself,
they resigned to form another party —the
Protestant party.
Cameron, M.H.R., in another outburst
of candor: —
Intrigue and underground engineering
have marred the Country party during the
last four years. One of the chief intriguers
was removed at the last election and
others may follow in the next.
Four Agrarians were “removed” in 1937 :
Roland Green {Richmond, N.S.W.),
McClelland (Wimmera, Vic.), Senator
Hardy (N.S.W.) and Senator Marwick
(W.A.). Marwick was only a nominee.
McClelland was defeated by Wilson,
whom Cameron, when a Minister, desig-
nated a “clean-skin”—for refusing to
apologise he was suspended for the rest of
the sitting. Green in 1922 came between
Massy-Greene and the Prime Minister-
ship ; he did nothing notable afterwards.
Hardy, when Lang was on the rampage,
was hailed as the Riverina’s favorite son.
All four rejects have been provokingly
silent.
Imprisonment up to five years without
the option will be the possible lot of car
thieves in Victoria if a bill before the
Leg. Assembly becomes law. In six
months 1000 motor vehicles have been
lifted, but of the 230 persons accused
only 30 were charged with larceny.
“Illegal use” was the charge in the other
cases. Under the bill the taking or using
of a car without its owner’s consent will
be regarded as larceny.
“Chev.” from Melbourne:
The Victorian Cabinet aims at introducing
“on-the-spot” summonses. In other words, it
wants to give a possibly flustered constable,
with, perhaps, the eyes of a large and cen-
sorious crowd on him, the power to start a
legal process which has to end in a police
court. He is not to take evidence and report on
the relevant facts, if he knows what are the
relevant facts, but has to come to an immediate
decision. It is too much to ask of a police-
man, or any citizen, to be so objective. A
traffic court is part of the plan. A similar
traffic court in Adelaide is shelling financial
peas for the Government at such a pace that
it has become a first-class piece of revenue-
producing machinery.
Opponents of refugee-immigration crop
up in most unexpected places. As out-
spoken as Frank Clarke, President of the
Victorian Leg. Council, was “Texas”
Green, of Kalgoorlie, most likeable of
Labor Ms.H.R., holding forth at Can-
berra :
Most of the cut-price tobacco shops
about Melbourne are run by alien Jews.
Fur shops, mantle shops, even little shops
for the mending of stockings—some-mere
holes in the wall, where little Australian
girls can be seen working—are under
Jewish control. For every Jew who is given
a professional job in Australia, an Australian
will suffer. The unemployed problem is
most acute among unskilled workers; I
know boys with leaving certificates who are
carting wood. Canada refused to make
itself a haven for Jewish refugees; it was
left to Australia to open its arms to them.
“Texas” said a lot more, prefixing his
observations with the assurance that he
had “no anti-Jewish feeling and no racial
hatred.”


A DROP TOO MUCH.
“Drugs which induce overexcitement in an athlete can have a most dangerous effect.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. •• •• 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
. securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADEL VIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SVDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
.EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED,
HAMPTON COURT
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
• Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
p
a
mu
mi
m
rm
rn
rrs
r-n
il
da
an
3
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates from 10/6
per night, single.
Suites from £l/1/-
per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARUNGHURST, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
IS Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
PERSONAL ITEMS
John McKelvey, knighted in 1933, was
one of a group of North and Central
Queenslanders who have made their way
in Sydney’s Macquarie-street —F. P.
Sandes, Professor of Surgery at Sydney
Uni.; Holmes a’Court, diagnostician;
A. T. Nisbet and Kerrod Voss, in deep
X-ray work, and some others. McKelvey
hailed from Townsville, was medical
superintendent of Royal Prince Alfred
Hospital before the war, and lectured
for some years in clinical and operative
surgery. In later years he was recog-
nised as one of Australia’s finest sur-
geons, but a year ago he returned from
a visit to U.S.A. seriously ill, and never
recovered his health.
T. H. Fitzgerald, dead at Innisfail
(N.Q.), aged 78, was the last survivor of
the party which landed at the Johnstone
River on April 23, 1880, under the leader-
ship of his father, and formed the town
of Geraldton. The name was changed
later to Innisfail to avoid confusion with
the W.A. Geraldton. M.L.-born and
Melbourne-ecjucated, young Fitzgerald
became the first shire clerk, hospital sec-
retary, postmaster and manager of the
Johnstone tramway to Mourilyan Har-
bor. With his father he produced the
first sugar in the Innisfail district, now
the largest sugar-producing area in
Queensland. Sugar was a family tradi-
tion —his father, with the late John
Spiller, had grown the first cane in the
Mackay district in the 1860’s.
Russell Roberts —Sydney vintage, 1904
—went to U.S.A. at 23 and got a job
with Chryslers, who sent him back to
Australia to take charge of the Melbourne
office. The depression hit the motor
business. Roberts took the first job on
hand —selling advertising. He found it
slow work, so he bought a camera and
RUSSELL ROBERTS.
began to work out some photographic
ideas of his own. Inside five years he
was one of Australia’s leading industrial
photographers. He has just returned from
the New York World’s Fair, at which he
helped to design and display Australia’s
exhibit, and has brought back a magnifi-
cent series of color studies of the Fair.
Regarded as in the running for the
Generalship of the Salvation Army, an
election for which will be held in London
in August, consequent on the retirement
of Evangeline Booth, is Australian-born
Commissioner George L. Carpenter, at
present in charge of the Army’s activities
in Canada. He joined up at Raymond
Terrace, N. S. Wales, close on 50 years
ago, and was soon a big figure in Army
circles, becoming Chief Secretary for
Eastern Australia and later editor of the
Sydney and Melbourne issues of the
“War Cry.” He married Ensign Minnie.
Rowell, author of many biographies of
Army leaders. Incidentally, the Army’s
chief-of-staff, Commissioner John Mc-
Millan, was for many years in Australia.
The death of Thomas Tamblyn (Cap’n
Tom) at Wallaroo mines, S.A., in his
eighty-ninth year, has removed the last
of the old brigade of Cornish mining
managers in that district. He came from
his native Cornwall when a young man
to the Wallaroo copper-mines, where he
was employed as a supervisor under-
ground, and remained in that capacity
until he retired about 20 years ago. A
stuggy, genial little man, about five-feet-
four in height, he was a personality
known far and wide for his native wit
and the quaint idioms of his race. He
liked a good horse, grew flowers, was
specially fond of cricket and outdoor
sports, and of course went to chapel
twice on Sunday.
“Salvo”: Death, striking suddenly,
closed a chapter for a good Aussie and
a devoted birdlover when Alexander
John Fitzgerald, of Booderoi station,
passed away recently. A keen observer
of both bird and plant life, he found in
his lifelong friend and good neighbor
Sid Carragan, of Waverley station, a
kindred spirit. From the day their re-
spective homesteads were built, they set
apart as a bird section a big lagoon run-
ning back from the Barwon River, inter-
sected by their boundary fences. Expert
rifleshots, they defended the birds against
hawks by air and wild pigs and foxes by
land.
Prof. E. Morris Miller, of the Univer-
sity of Tasmania, is busy with the proofs
of a bibliography of Australian literature
which the Melbourne University Press
hopes to issue towards the end of this
year. This monumental work was insti-
tuted by the late John Quick, and upon
his death Morris Miller stepped into the
breach. He rearranged the work, and has
spent several years of hard research.
Morris Miller was born at Pieter-
maritzburg, Natal, but was educated
at Wesley College, Melbourne. He has
had a fine scholastic record, and the
list of his publications helps to swell
Who’s Who in Australia. He’s 58, and
takes his recreation on the bowling green.
Erstwhile Westralian artist Miguel
McKinley, who has had a picture ac-
cepted by the Royal Academy, emanated
from Perth, and was a confrere of Stan
Cross and Lance Mattinson. He was
born of a Scotch father and a Spanish
mother, and is just on fifty.
Just retired in Melbourne after 27
years of it, A. J. Odgers has private-
secretaried for no fewer than 12 Post-
masters-General, amongst them Fraser,
Webster, Wise, Poynton, Spence, Gibson,
the late J. A. Lyons, “Texas” Green,
Fenton, Archie Parkhill and Senator
McLachlan.
Adelaide has lost a fine old citizen and
an untiring battler in Alfred Roberts, at
76. He was at various times president of
the Stock Exchange, member of the City
Council, mayor of Glenelg, and a director
of many companies. He earned the
O.B.E. for war-time work. Also he had
been inter-State footballer and tennis
player, champion long-distance walker,
president of the Lawn Tennis Association,
and hon. manager of a Davis Cup team
in the days of Brookes and Wilding.
They christened him Wilmot Hudson
Fysh when he was discovered flopping
about on the banks of the Tamar at
Launceston (Tas.) in January, 1895. By
the time the war was over and he came
out with a commission in the A.F.C.,
he was something of a legend. In the
next year or two he and Fergus Mc-
Master were to be found creeping up
on victims with a proposition for starting
an aerial mail service in Central Queens-
land. On November 2, 1922, they
carried the first air mail in Queensland
from Charleville to Cloncurry. By 1934
Qantas had grown so far as to be en-
trusted with the Australian section of
the London-Australia air-mail route.
In 1939 their flying boats are the giants
YE OLDE FLYING FYSH.
(Modelled by Frith.)
of the air-mail service, and their one-
room office of 1920 is exchanged for
a palatial suite in the Shell Building in
Sydney. The only feature of the Qantas
landscape which does not seem to have
altered is Ye Olde Flying Fysh (as his
mates in Longreach used to call him).
Nearly 20 years of air-mail organisation
have not given him a grey hair. At 44,
he still thinks that the most fascinating
pastime in the world is flying.
L. J. Hartnett, managing director of
General Motors-Holden’s, has crowded a
lot of experience into his 40-odd years,
Born in England and destined for the
medical profession (his father was a
medico), he took instead to engineering,
joining Vickers’s huge concern as an
apprentice. The World War intervened
and he served in it in the navy air service,
Peace found him running his own busi-
ness Then “the East” called and he
started a motor company at Singapore,
Since he joined General Motors a dozen
years ago he has worked for that con-
cern in New York, India, Sweden, Wei-
lington and Melbourne, and in 1931 he
got an invitation from the Soviet to tell
them a few things in Moscow.
In Sydney last week was Arthur
Telford Donnelly, of Maoriland, best
known nowadays as the chairman of the
Bank of New Zealand. He has also
been president of the M.L. Racing Con-
ference, and used to be managing eom-
missioner of the Cricket Council. His job
as the Government’s buffer between the
semi-Government-owned B.N.Z. and the
other trading banks has probably been
as onerous as any in Australasia in the
last year or so, but his bland cheerfulness
is unimpaired. Still on the sunny side
of 50, Donnelly did his bit in the Great
War in the Otago Regiment. Son of a
Christchurch lawyer, he followed in his
father's footsteps, and was a Crown
Solicitor at 30. Dependability and im-
partiality are his main characteristics, and
he is the only Government representative
on the B.N.Z. board who can boast that,
appointed by one party in politics, he
was reappointed by its bitterest opponents.
Latest promotions in the R.A.F. in-
clude Group-Captain Champion de
Crespigny, who becomes, at 42, the
youngest air commodore in the
force. A Victorian, he started his
fighting career with the A.I.F. in 1914,
six months later transferred to the R.F.C.,
won the M.C. and D. 5.0., has served
eight years in the R.A.F. in India, and
recently has been in command of No. 8
Flying Training School at Montrose. His
quick promotion in the R.A.F. is in line
with his war record —he was a major
before he was 21.
Air Vice-Marshal Williams, seconded
from the command of the R.A.A.F., has
been appointed “air officer in charge of
administration” of the R.A.F. Coastal
Command, which centres in Southamp-
ton, and includes three reconnaissance
groups and 17 stations, as well as the
three aircraft carriers of the Second
Battle Squadron. The Coastal Command
is one of the most important fighting
commands in the world,
Lord Lurgan, who has arrived in Aus-
tralia to give a series of recitals of the
songs of contemporary English com-
posers, belongs to a family whose peerage
is exactly a century old. His father, who
held the title fbr more than half a
century, was chairman of the plutocratic
Carlton and Ritz hotels in London. The
present Lurgan is well known in the
sporting world—he was a member of
the English golf team which played
against U.S.A. a dozen years ago and is
one of the U.K.’s best-known exponents
of Royal tennis. Some members of the
family had a connection with Australia
in an earlier day, of which Brownlow
Hill, near Camden (N.S.W.), is a reminis-
cence, Brownlow being the family name,
p r p p. Benham, who died last year,
has | e f t £75,000 to Adelaide University,
and half of it is to be spent at once on
a biology lab. to bear his name, housing
the schools of zoology and botany for
Profs. Harvey Johnston and Wood. Like
most of the University’s many recent
buildings it ,s to be of brick, and down
on the flat facing the Torrens Lake,
By the appointment of A. Bruce
Currey, Boxhill, one of Melbourne’s
more considerable suburbs, has acquired
probably the youngest town clerk in Aus-
tralia. He is 25. Nine years ago he left
Melbourne High School, and was ap-
pointed acting town clerk when the then
incumbent, also a man in his twenties,
was transferred to Tasmania.


lii
* : m
:: :
: : '
m
You see . / can tell
:
White Horse blindfold.”
ftiKKgg 1
% .
r
“But how did you know?
:
m
■:■" :-: :««<•:«•.:«« '•x-o* ;•<:>■,
:*#«* > < */•",.
■<v,W ~
' '
’KATig &■
MS
Screw-cap
flasks of
convenient
sizes on sale
everywhere
64 Well, to me it is unmistakable. White Horse has
got a subtle, distinctive aroma of its own: it’s soft
and smooth to the palate—just like a fine liqueur.
| I knew I was right, I recognised it at once.”
WHITE HORSE
WHISKY
(The millions of gallons of finest Scotch whisky
matured and maturing ensure that the quality of White Horse never varies .
8972 X


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ak Shorr”: In certain seasons (gener-
ally when some nitwit has been harrying
the helpful dingo with gun and dog) wal-
labies do great damage to cane crops in
the sugar belt of N.Q. In one locality,
a quiet valley of good fertility, which was
especially susceptible, settler after settler
was driven out by the voracious pests,
which, working at night, nip off the
tender shoots as soon as they are a few
inches above the soil. After Giuseppe
voiced an anguished “Vorka Deo! Val-
labies eat everytings! ” and moved off we
thought it would remain a deserted
corner; but Otto and his expansive family
moved in. They remained by far the
longest, but inside 12 months even these
hardy colonists trekked out. “Hello,” I
greeted, “wallabies eat you out too?”
“No,” replied Otto, grinning trium-
phantly. “We eat wallabies out!”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Fast-walking abos.,
is it? My old dad used to tell of a young
buck whom grandpa employed at Arma-
dale (W.A.). Every now and again he
would take the week-end off and visit a
tribe at Wagin, about 80 miles away. He
was never away more than three days.
After one visit he returned with a dusky,
and not altogether willing, bride. Two
days later a party of in-laws arrived and
staged a housewarming. Our buck took
a spear through the leg, and they called
it quits. And judging by the immediate
proceedings it appears that in their com-
munity, as in ours, a wedding served one
useful purpose —it provided an excuse for
a bender.
* * * *
“Beat”: Tell “Dingo” (B. 14/6/’39) to
go bush, keeping his eyes on the various
footwear he encounters. Shearers, almost
to a man, wear moccasins ; the blight of
their lives —the shed-hands —nip around
in sandshoes. Most rabbit-trappers and
all ’roo-hunters I’ve met have worn
leather-topped, crepe-rubber-soled shoes
for prowling silently through the scrub.
If “D.” finds drovers he will almost cer-
tainly see “concertina” topboots as well.
Eighty per cent, of Aussie’s riders wear
the traditional “Jemimas”; the rest
favor the neater strapped riding boot.
Nor do all navvies, miners and other
hard toilers wear bluchers these days.
They, too, have found more comfort in
sandshoes.
“M.V.S.”: Know a woodcutter who,
while working, always wears a pair of
white canvas shoes, which he keeps at a
dazzling whiteness. It intrigued me, so
he explained. “It’s easy for a man to
cut his feet while chopping up fallen
timber unless he pays particular attention
to where he places his pads. Of course,
all woodcutters realise this same as
I do, but sometimes when tired you’re
liable to forget your feet, and then a
poorly-placed blow may mean an acci-
dent. That’s why I like to wear white
shoes on the job. My eyes never lose
sight of my feet, which makes it that
much easier to keep them out of the
danger zone.” Logical enough. An ordi-
nary pair of boots does not show up con-
spicuously on the ground among fallen
branches and undergrowth and offers
little more protection against a heavy
axe blow than the canvas type.
* * * *
“Koolpinyah”: Abo. first-aid, eh (B.
28/6/’39)? In ’29 I was trepanging at
Junction Bay, N.T., when one night an
old native was seized by a croc., which
made off for the near-by creek. Taking
a snapshot I broke the saurian’s near
foreclaw. It was then that the black-
fellow made his escape, and the next
bullet dropped the reptile for keeps.
Binghi was badly torn across the stomach,
back and legs. When the white man
offered treatment it was refused ; but the
relatives of the native came to light.
Mud collected from the creek was pasted
thickly on the open wounds, then tied
on with a couple of flour-bags cut suit-
ably for the occasion. Two months later
the patient was about and quite recov-
ered ; but he bore the marks of the
saurian’s teeth and claws. Give a white
“pfeller” such treatment and he would
soon pass out with blood-poisoning.
* « # *
“Cooramin”: Our largest game bird
of the swamps, the magpie goose, is now
gone from N.S.W. and S.Q., where once
it was numerous. An astonishing thing
about it is its enormous convoluted
windpipe. The length of the fowl is 36in.,
and its trachea 60in. The first fold is at
the base of the neck, on the right-hand
side of the breast; thence it passes to
the left side and forms a huge double
“Now I'll show you the front. This is only the tradesmen's entrance."
loop that reaches as far as the abdomen,
and finally enters the lungs through an
opening in the chest. The peculiarity
occurs only in the male. Another
curiosity is its semi-palmated feet, only
half the length of the toes being webbed.
In this it differs from all other geese.
* * * *
“U2B”: Windlass handles and wells,
is it? Mad Jack, offsider to a well-sinker,
was hauling his boss up from about 60ft.
Over from the well a bullock, mad with
pleuro, ruminated in a patch of tea-tree.
When Jack had his man about half up
the bullock, apparently disliking the
patch on the seat of Jack’s pants, charged,
pinning Jack to the windlass —luckily
with one horn on each side of his body.
Jack pegged the handle, slipped from be-
tween the bullock’s horns and, grabbing
the rope, slid down and stayed with his
mate in the bucket till the bullock went
back to his patch of scrub to brood over
his sorrows.
“Opalite”: If “Edjudina” (B. 21/6/’39)
can’t pull a 10-stone man up a 50ft.
shaft without “taxing every muscle of his
body” there must be something wrong with
his windlass and gear. I worked for four
years on the Lightning Ridge opal field,
n.-w. N.S.W., with a 13-stone mate, and
we were credited with sinking the deepest
shaft on the field —92ft. The general
practice there is: Don’t use too large a
barrel. Four to five inches diameter is
large enough for deep working, it’s
easier to turn ; quarter-inch wire rope.
Cut footholds in the middle of each side
of the shaft, and not opposite each other,
Tie an inch-thick hemp rope at one end
of the shaft and let it hang to the bottom,
When you have to climb up it’s like
walking, using the rope. When you pull
your mate up in a sling or bos’n’s chair,
not a bucket, he hauls on the rope as you
turn, and takes half the weight off the
windlass. You can pull him with one
hand and whistle. If you did faint he’s
got the rope to hang on to and the steps
to put his feet in. Buckets are green-
hide with greenhide handles, and hold up
to one hundred pounds of dirt. If you
drop an empty one it won’t kill your
mate below. For a counterweight a
long, narrow bucket of greenhide fills
the bill. Familiarity may breed contempt,
but have never seen a peg used to hold
the handle. I was regarded as “fussy”
because I had a length of rope tied to
the end of the windlass frame that I could
have SMS, 25
‘.“and" 3 r .e°ar £a,al aCC,dem W ' th
these stands and gear. * *
“Heresone”: I leave the Gropers to
deal 'with “Runa. D.Y.” for calling
jarrah an acacia (B. 14/6/’39), but I
can’t pass his suggestion that wavy or
ringed grain gives greater strength. The
ordinary yellow box has a curly grain,
arranged on the principle of a tangled
fishing-line, and terribly trying to axes,
wedges and tempers. An odd tree, how-
ever, has quite straight grain, and splits
as easily as ironbark. Rarer still is the
wavy-grained log, with the ripples as even
as crimp in wool, and not much larger.
It will split at the sight of an axe. The
cause, I think, is the same that produces
black foxes and white elephants: just
Mother Nature trying to be funny.
* * * *
“E.S.”: Johnny Allsorts, who kept a
general store in a small wayback town,
had a frugal habit of “taking a fall” out
of the ready-mades on his shelves. He
would wear a suit for a week or so,
then put it back and don another. Moon-
pate, an old customer who knew Johnny’s
ways, said he liked buying trousers at
that store, as in the pocket there was
sometimes a banknote which had been
forgotten when the clothing was put
back on the shelves. “But you might
buy a swag of pants without drawing a
prize,” I remarked. “No fear,” said
Moonpate. “I have a look at the lot, and
if they’re all blanks I don’t like ’em. I
was had once. I felt what I thought was
currency (you see, I couldn’t pull it out
in front of him), and it was a letter from
Woolpack which said: ‘Five-pound note
lost or stolen from the station. Keep an
eye on Moonpate.’ A scurrilous insinua-
tion ; but, anyhow, it put me wise.”
* * * *
“Yarra Ben”: No one will believe me,
“Bufo” (B. 21/6/’39), but while one
missus I know draws the blinds and con-
tracts herself to the irreducible minimum
under the blankets and pillows, her lord
has quite a different way of dealing wi i
electrical storms. The wardrobe ana
dressing-table mirrors are hinged in by
a peg-and-slot contrivance. At the first
crack of thunder he unships the mirrors
and, by patent strap fixings, hangs them
from his shoulders like sandwich-boards,
Then he gathers up all the knives and
sticks them in his belt. With a steel
saucepan hat-wise on his head he takes
up a central position in the yard, his right
hand on the axe handle and the presenta-
tion steel in his left. Actually he turns
himself into a live lightning-conductor,
believing that the more you disperse ligh -
ning the less it kicks at the moment of
striking. He swears that he has been
struck twice and is none the worse. Per-
sonally, I don’t believe him.
* ‘ ~. A XT r» u. n lu +roHitinn
. ~D :A N n , f ne tree“
MSSOS
sate but turpentines replace
the beefwood as traditional lightning
attractors. Long acquaintance with the
pines of the Whitsunday Islands and ad-
joining mainland convinces me that many
pines there, green and dry, have been
struck in fact, any tourist with a good
p air of glasses can see for himself on
Long, Dent and Molle islands if his near-
luxury cruiser happens to go through the
Passage in daylight. Regarding beef-
woods, I’ve never noticed any particular
tendency towards lightning damage, but
the only two struck trees in the 10 square
miles of timbered hillsides visible from
a friend’s house 40 miles south of Bris-
bane were both turpentines.
* * * %
Those karri poles for
W.A.’s Pearce aerodrome wireless masts
mentioned by “Skiloperende” (B.
14/6/’39) are only toothpicks. Of two
turpentine poles for 4MB Maryborough
(Q.) cut on Fraser Island, one was 122 ft.
6in. long, the other 117 ft. 6in. Several
ironbark and spotted-gum poles have
been cut in this district also over 90ft.
in length—l cut one 93ft. Odd poles of
up to 140 ft. can be procured on Fraser
Island.
sH * * *
“Rimu”: An old Maoriland wayfarer
I knew never travelled without several
small pieces of kauri gum in his swag.
He maintained it was the best fire-kindler
he knew. A piece of paper with a few
scrapings of the gum folded inside
would start any fire, and, as the gum
burned with a hot flame, much more
important than a light, wavering one, it
would dry and ignite damp chips or
leaves quickly and surely. A city firm
at one time got the same idea, and cubes
of sawdust and kauri gum scrapings be-
came popular for kindling in suburban
homes. Germany’s demand for the gum,
no matter how poor or fine, put an end
to that enterprise.
A RUSSELL-FLINT WATER-COLOR.
Nothing but sun, and sand, and sea,
And bathers on a beach
Where silver waves spill languidly
Upon a yellow reach,
And summer all its light out-shakes
On that arrested motion
Of breaking wave that never breaks
And stirless sweep of ocean,
And moving clouds that never move
Till all dissolve and swoon
Suspended in the stillness of
Eternal afternoon.
Nothing but sea, and sand, and sun—
Looking upon you, how
Warm, warm the tides of memory run,
Though winter is with me now,
From shallow reach and sun-drenched pool—
Even as those we knew
When you were young and beautiful,
And I was happy, too.
I am transported to that land
That hangs there on the wall:
A world of sea, and sun, and sand;
And nothing else at all.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“Ellenvale”: “The cockies round here
make me sick,” old Bill said disgustedly.
“They dunno they’re alive. If they’d
been with us when me an’ Half-caste
Harry took on a selection up north, they
might’ve had some cause for complaint.
We never had no tractors nor no flash
machinery, nor no horses even —we jist
had to make out the best way we could.
1 useter do the heavy ploughin’ with six
half-wild bull camels, Harry follered up
with a mob o’ donks hooked to the drill
an’ his gin finished off with a team of
dingoes draggin’ a light harrer. We’d
have made a fortune, too, only for
natural causes.” “What do you mean,
‘natural causes’?” someone asked. “Well,
you see,” Bill told him, “it never rained
for two years, but when it did start the
damn’ stuff come down for six months
without a break. The wheat grew so
high that all our teams got lost in it an’
we never saw ’em again. We tried hard
to find ’em ; Harry an’ his missus must
have got bushed somewheres in the crop
—I never saw them again either—an’ I
wouldn’t have found me way out only
I’d sense enough to take an axe with me
an’ nick a wheat stalk every, few feet I
took. Yair—pioneerin’ was pioneerin’
them days.”
* * * *
“Fisher”: Strange that the technique
of the English poacher has never reached
a rabbit-ridden land like ours, considering
that so many of us must have poacher
blood in our veins. Only saw the real
article in operation once. We had two
English immigrant lads working in the
dairy section of the property ; a couple
of trappers were doing their best on the
grazing paddocks, while we did a bit of
poisoning ourselves in the back country.
When the Little Brothers found out that
Bunny was fair game, they owned up.
With home-made wire snares and figurc-
of-four traps they had been averaging a
couple of hundred a night from eight
acres and selling the product to the fac-
tory on the quiet; it licked both the
trappers’ score and ours. Why we didn’t
forcibly “preserve” our cottontail assets
was hard to explain to ex-ravagers of the
estates of England’s landed gentry.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The first man who wore a
wooden leg did his own amputation. Hav-
ing been put in the stocks by the Spartans
he contrived, according to Herodotus, to
cut off one leg and get away. William
Mariner records a self-amputation by a
Tongan whose leg had been mangled by
a shark. He put in several days on the
job, sawing the bones through below the
knee with a shell and finishing off with a
hard knock from a stone.
* * * ♦
“Nor’-west”: The turtle that comes
ashore is always a female ; males never
leave the water. Nor do the males run
much to fat, though the ladies, not un-
like some of the human tribe, roll with
it. To the Kimberley abo. a plump lady
turtle is a banquet. And, moreover, she
obligingly supplies casserole and serving
dish as well. Here’s the cooking, a la
Mrs. Beeton. First catch your turtle —
by waylaying the lady on the beach and
turning her oyer on her back. Helpless,
she then awaits the cook’s convenience.
Decapitate, clean, dress. The shell will
then still contain meat, fat, perhaps the
eggs that were about to be laid, but cer-
tainly any number still without shell.
Place shell and contents on moderate fire.
Soon all is frying and frizzling. When
done to taste serve in shell—all hands
taking their pick of titbits. Rich? Is it
any wonder that the Kimberley black
alniost without exception stands upwards
ot six feet. Turtle cooked in the shell,
and with just a touch of Worcestershire
sauce, is the stuff to train gladiators on.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: Unless something is done
mighty quick, there s going to be a heap
of trouble on the Murray; water-
hyacinth has appeared below Waikerie
(S.A.). A couple of years ago some
thoughtless ind i-
vidual placed three
plants in Ramco
lagoon to beautify
it; now there are
acres of it in such
density that stock
can’t get at the water
in that part of the
lagoon. If this lovely
pest gets a hold in
the Murray, the
damage will be enor-
mous. It could con-
ceivably bank up
against some of the
costly locks, causing
the water to over-
flow and cut new
channels. If seeds
ever got up as far
as Hume dam there
would be a national
disaster. Anybody
who thinks I’m exag-
gerating should consult natives of the
N.S.W. Northern Rivers —they know all
about it. S.A. Department of Agricul-
ture is planning an extensive campaign
to eradicate the hyacinth. No effort
should be spared, whatever eradication
costs now—even if the Murray Waters
Commission has to maintain sentries up
and down the river for the next year or
two —that cost will be infinitely small
compared with the ultimate loss if the
weed gets away.
* * Sc *
“Norther”: Does J. H. M. Abbott
know of any escapee from the old Port
Macquarie (N.S.W.) gaol who dis-
appeared? J. Batchelor, ploughing some
new ground near Tacking Point-road
recently, turned up an ancient set of leg-
irons. With them was what appeared to
have been a legbone, badly smashed up
by the plough.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: In a camp that
boasted a dozen first-rate cooks, Sandy
was champion damper hand. Conse-
quently, when a motorist broke a spring
on a bad stretch near the camp, and he
and the lady were faced with a possible
long and hungry wait for a pick-up, we
directed them to Sandy’s camp as the
most likely place to get a decent feed.
They arrived as Sandy was wiping the
ashes from a damper that, made their
“ You’ll never make any money doing that old-fashioned style. And , by
the way , can you lend me the price of a feed ?”
“Beauty DOTES on cream puffs!”
nostrils twitch and their mouths water,
and, accepting the courteous invitation
to “help yersel’s,” they attacked the ap-
petising loaf with unaccustomed relish, a
phenomenon which they attributed,
wrongly, to the country air. As his break-
fast, dinner and tea for the following day
vanished rapidly, Sandy’s first feeling of
gratification changed to concern, and his
generous Scotch-Australian hospitality
was strained. The meal over, the city
chap turned to his host. “I’m afraid
we’ve scoffed all your—er —scone,” he
apologised insincerely, “but” —as one
conferring a special favor —“I’ll tell you
what; I’ll be passing through again in
a week or so, and I’ll bring you up some
real bread from the city.”
* * * *
“Reef Dodger” (Noumea): The Maori
belief that the octopus travels in pairs
(B. 26/4/’39) has a parallel in parts of
Melanesia, the natives debiting the sting-
ray with the same habit. They also claim
that if a person is struck by one of these
nasty customers he will inevitably be
stung by its mate. Once when building
a wharf one of my native gang was
stung, a small artery in his leg being
severed. In hospital, where he spent a
couple of weeks, we presented him with
a trophy—the sting of the ’ray, which we
caught two days after his accident. He
returned to his own island, 28 miles away,
and, on the strength of knowing that his
attacker was dead and the distance be-
tween himself and the scene of the com-
bat, he entered the sea. On the second
day he was struck again, fortunately not
badly. He is convinced it was “missus
belong ’nother fella catchum me.” He
now claims he will be immune for a long
time, and will then get two more stings
in rapid succession. I know he has been
immune for three years, though he has
twice to my knowledge trodden on sting-
rays.
* * * =?
“Salmon Gums”: Dick and Bill,
neither a very good scholar, were argu-
ing. It had to do with figures. Bill made
it 24 ; Dick couldn’t get more than 19
out of it. Came a mutual acquaintance,
who promptly asked Dick how his hand
was getting on. “Good,” Dick replied,
holding up for inspection the stump of
the missing finger. Then he looked sheep-
ishly at Bill, who glared back. “An’
that’s the hand yer’ve been countin’ on! ”
he roared.
* * * *
“Valencia Creek”: While I wouldn’t
go so far as to say that the crow makes
choice eating, he’s better than nothing
when your waist belt has been pulled in
an extra six or seven notches. You have
to boil your bird for at least a day before
he becomes at all palatable—changing the
water four or five times —and it’s just as
well to throw in a handful of gumleaves
to tone the flavor down a bit. Of course,
by this time you’ll be hungry enough to
eat anything, but if you fix your mind
on something else besides crow and think
' beautiful thoughts while you’re eating
the black so-an’-so, you’ll manage to get
it down all right.
* * * *
“H.W.M.”: When Alick and Ray,
woodcutting in the New England
(N.S.W.) district, on the timbered slopes
of the Great Dividing Range, received
their monthly tally on which to collect
their cheques, they agreed that they had
cut as much in the current period as in
the previous month, when their tally had
been adjudged bigger, and as a new
manager had been appointed they decided
to go into the mill and clear the matter
up. Alick, the clerk of the two, was to
take down the measurements while Ray
watched the tape. One of Ray’s logs was
rolled up to the vertical saw, parked in
the centre and the tape put on, and, after
deductions for hollow and soft wood and
for cutting down too near the ground,
the log was put through. When the man-
ager was making further deductions Alick
called out: “Better roll up another log,
Ray; there’s not enough in the last one
to stand all the deductions he’s made
from it!”
* * * *
“Ophir”: If everyone has finished giv-
ing advice about how to kill a snake, let
me put ’em up to the one certain method
—hot water, particularly where Joe is in
such a position that a man can’t get a
fair smack at it. Boiling water is best,
but if it’s hot enough to blister the snake’s
skin it will settle any reptile, no matter
how big.
AN OVERDUE REFORM.
N.S.W.
“Y’ know,” said Jim, as, pipe in mouth, he
lolled against the wall,
“Them ‘good old days’ they magged of wasn’t
any good at all.
In fact, from what I seen of ’em when I was
just a lad,
Them days old-timers boast about was mostly
pretty bad.
“Outback a train come once a week; the roads
was on’y tracks;
They ’ad no near-by schools; no wireless, cars
or Ilyin’ quacks;
The cockies got no Gov’ment ’elp; but nowa-
days a bloke
May strike crook seasons end on end an’ simply
can’t go broke.
“There wasn't no amusements then like pitcher-
shows an’ things.
W’y, ’struth! compared with what it was we’re
livin’ now like kings!
But one thing alwiz got my goat—it was the
gen’ral rule—
The kids all done a ’alf day’s work before they
went to school.
“I know —too true! My old man run some
cows the same as me:
Each mornin’ we’d be out o’ bed at just on
’alf past three;
Summer or winter, ’ail or shine, ’twas all the
flamin’ same:
Teat-pullin’ on a frozen stool—it was a blasted
shame.
“When / got spliced I swore that any nippers
that I got
Would never suffer such a crime—they’d get
a better trot.
I’ve kept my word —my oath! I never ’ammer
on their door
Too early. No! I let ’em all sleep in till ’alf
past four!
S. W. K.


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
25!) PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 484 GEOItGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m>).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by 'Plione M 4601.
H
and
STILL
P
LUCAS
BATTERIES
LUCAS SPARE PARTS AND BATTERY AGENTS.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: A. C. McCailum, Ltd., 90 Murray Street, PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hannan Bros., Ltd., 58-62 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: Starting Lighting Ignition Pty., Ltd., 156 Lonsdale Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett « Mood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SIDNEY.
Moody & Company, 15 Gonllnirn Street, SYDNEY.
QUEENSLAND: Elphinstones Pty., Ltd., corner Wharf and Adelaide Streets,
BRISBANE. Also at Toowoomba, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns.
TASMANIA: W. T. Burns, 46 Brisbane Street. HOBART.
H. C. Thompson Pty., Ltd., 97 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddom K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
£4,739,012 10
• . . 4,300,000 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10
CAPITAL PAID UP
RESERVE FUND
0
0
0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C. 1.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co., Ltd.
Net
Earn- Debenture
Mar., ings. Interest. Dividend. Reserves.
1928 374,847 62,967 15 p.e. = 287,500 1,865,635
Badgery Bros., Ltd. (N.S.W.), bought out.
1929 381,572 62,925 15 p.c. = 300,000 1,884,282
Premiums on new shares, £199,543 .. 2,083,825
1930 253,465 62,646 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,074,644
Premiums on new shares, £457 .. 2,075,101
1931 177,529 62,553 5 p.c. = 120,000 2,070,077
1932 125,847 62,553 2J „ „ 60,000 2,073,371
To contingency reserve, £420,000 .. 1,653,371
1933 139,538 62,553 21 p.c. = 60,000 1,670,356
Reserves disappear, £20,000 .. 1,650,356
1934 258,384 62,553 6 p.c. = 144,000 1;702,187
1935 160,741 62,553 6 „ „ 144,000 1,656,375
1936 237,467 62,552 7 „ „ 168,000 1,663,292
1937 259,221 62,552 8 ~ „ 192,000 1,667,961
1938 243,859 62,516 7 „ „ 168,000 1,681,304
Special tax provision, £38,000 .. 1,643,304
Surplus sale investments, £1636 .. 1,644,940
Goodwill new businesses, £21,657 .. 1,623,283
1939 178,024 62,500 4i p.c. = 108,000 1,630,807
The business of this big pastoral,
pastoral-finance, wool- and stockbroking
and merchandising co. is spread through-
out the Commonwealth, where it is the
second-largest of its kind. The co. is
strongest in N. S. Wales, where it re-
ceives nearly half the wool it handles,
does most of its livestock turnover, and
is a large runowner as well. Still, its
connections in other States are steadily
expanding by absorption and otherwise,
four new branches being opened in
Westralia and one in South Australia
last term, when £21,657 was paid for the
goodwill of businesses taken over.
Owing to drought, 11,516 fewer bales
were received last term; but growers
met the market, an extra 93,902 bales
being put under the hammer, reducing
the carry-forward by 49,228 bales:
— —* Australian
Year to Carry Average
Mar. 31, Received. Sold. Forward, per Bale.t
1933.. 317,704 327,147 30,747 £ll 9 1
1934.. 295,416 318,035 8,128 20 4 5
1935.. 307,648 253,841 61,935 12 13 4
1936.. 306,777 358,232* 10,480 17 12 3
1937.. 301,598 292,873 19,205 20 14 2
1938.. 314,078 257,889' 75,394 15 15 3
1939.. 302,563 351,791 26,166 13 4 0
* Includes 25,525 bales burnt and appraised.
t For year to June 30.
For the 12 months to the end of June
the average per bale was £2 11s. 3d.
lighter; and being grower as well as
broker the co. suffered in both directions.
Also, prices for sheep fell in sympathy
with those of wool and owing to some
forced selling on account of drought.
It is all reflected in a contraction of
£38,011 in gross earnings. That was
after setting aside whatever was con-
sidered necessary for contingencies:
Provi-
Gross Debenture dent Net
Profit. Expenses. Interest. Fund. Profit.
1928.. 889,060 509,213 62,967 5,000 311,880
1929.. 914,201 527,629 62,925 5,000 318,647
1930.. 795,752 539,787 62,646 2,500 190,819
1931.. 630,714 450,685 62,553 2,500 114,976
1932.. 499,629 371,782 62,553 2,000 63,294
1933.. 508,675 367,137 62,553 2,000 76,985
1934.. 615,705 354,321 62.553 3,000 195,831
1935.. 566,424 402,683 62,553 3,000 98,188
1936.. 658,195 415,726 62,552 5,000 174,917
1937.. 725,511 456,290 62,552 10,000 196,669
1938.. 772,660 518,801 62,516 10,000 181,343
1939.. 734,649 548,125 62,500 8,500 115,524
The growth of £29,324 in exes, was due
to the larger volume of wool and live-
stock handled and to the upward trend
of costs. After paying debenture interest
and sending £B5OO (down £1500) to the
provident fund, the net result was
£65,819 lighter at 4.8 p.c. on capital as
against 7.5, 8.2, 7.2, 4, 8.1, 3.2, 2.6, 4.7,
9.5, 15.9 and 16.3 p.c. back to 1928.
The div. was lowered from 7 p.c. to 4y
p.c., making the average for the last nine
years 5.4 p.c. For the 20 years before
that the average was 15.8 p.c., but those
days have gone, and it is doubtful
whether they will ever return again.
The next table shows the solid
nature of the financial structure, and the
extent to which the co. has come to the
assistance of clients:- —
1930. 1938. 1939.
Capital .. .. £2,399,892 £2,400,000 £2,400,000
Debentures .. 1,418,702 1,417,702 1,417,586
Sundry creditors. . 1,309,596 858,692 840,138
Liquid assets .. 398,515 481,214 333,416
Advances . . . . 5,886,051 4,751,588 4,743,648
Properties . . 290,904 224,987 f 1 nOl ocn
Premises, etc. . . 649,158 837,915 ] ’ ’
Plant, stock, shares,
etc 166,564 219,823 310,516
To chip £18,554 off the amount coming
to sundry creditors, add £90,693 to plant,
livestock, etc., and pay the previous
year’s final div., liquids were drawn upon
for £147,798 and the book value of prem-
ises was reduced by £61,636. Advances
were down £7940 ; good wool clearances
and satisfactory rains before the close
of accounts eased the demand from
clients. When the books closed, trade
creditors could see Bs. of every pound of
their money in liquids. The balance,
together with the debenture debt, was
over 2j times covered by advances alone.
As for the current term, the chairman
sums up the position in this way:^ —
The immediate trend of the market is
impossible to forecast, as it appears to be
dependent upon a restoration of world
tranquillity and a resultant revival of inter-
national trade. Reports from overseas
indicate that stocks on hand in the main
European consuming countries are in the
aggregate above normal, and this may have
the effect of delaying any immediate im-
provement in the demand from these
quarters. On the other hand, stocks in
Japan and the United States are light, and
this, coupled with the fact that the supplies
available in the primary markets are rela-
tively small, is a favorable element in the
general situation.
In part of Central Queensland and
portion of Westralia dry conditions con-
tinue, but over most of the rest of Aus-
tralia the seasonal outlook is bright
enough at the moment. The most dis-
turbing feature from the pastoralist’s
point of view is the steady upward trend
of internal costs, which affects our ex-
port much more than our local industries.
Following publication of the accounts
the pound shares, which sold at 295.
early in 1939, fell sharply from 265. to
245. 9d. in the market. The return at
245. 9d. is 3.6 p.c. on a 44- p.c. div. basis,
or 4.8 p.c. on a 6 p.c. distribution.
Visibly the cover is 335. 7d. in net
tangibles.
New Zealand Breweries, Ltd.
To Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.t
£ £ £ £
1928.. 121,332 10 p.c. = 50,000 71,332 234,829
Hidden reserves disclosed, £125,000 . . 109,829
Reserves capitalised, £250,000 • • 359',529
1929.. 128,848 15 p.c. = 75,000 53,848 305,981
1930.. 123,038 15 „ ~ 93,750 29,288 276.693
Approximate profit on conversion of Re-
debentures, £342,314 ; goodwill serves.
( £375,000) extinguished . . . . 98,307
1931.. 165,878 124 p.c.= 136,533 29,345 127,652
1932.. 86,739 8 „ „ 87,382 127,009
1933.. 77,224 7 „ „ 76,460 764 127,773
Insurance reserve taken in, £35,000 .. 163,135
1934.. 76,821 7 p.c. 76,459 362 163,135
1935.. 82,836 7 „ „ 76,459 6,377 169,512
1936.. 90,402 74 „ „ 81,920 8,482 177,994
1937.. 105,559 84 „ „ 92,843 12,716 190,710
Share premiums," £135,777 .. .. 326,487
1938.. 143,698 84 p.c. =139,007 4,691 331,178
Written off freeholds, £135,777 .. 195,401
1939.. 146,446 8£ p.c. =139,007 7,439 202,840
* Nine months, f Goodwill ( £500,000 to commence,
since written off) not treated as an asset.
This co., which amalgamated the in-
terests of Speight’s, Hancock’s, Staples’s,
the Lion and half a dozen other leading
breweries in the Dominion in 1923,
further tightened its grip upon the trade
by purchase of the Timaru and White
Star (Kaiapoi) breweries towards the
close of accounts in 1937. In the follow-
ing year it took over Staples’s hotel free-
holds (it already had the trade of these
houses), reconditioned the Waterloo
(Wellington) and other hotel properties,
installed a lot of new bottling plant and
extended its brewing equipment, etc.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, further additions were
made to several of the co.’s breweries
and malthouses, some new plant was in-
stalled, more hotel freeholds were bought
and an interest was acquired at an un-
stated figure in Macarthy’s, an old-estab-
lished brewing business, etc., in Welling-
ton. There is no price-cutting in the
trade; competition—Dominion Breweries,
which set up at Auckland in 1930, is be-
ginning to make its presence felt —takes
the form of buying up hotel freeholds,
thus widening and anchoring turnover.
Although the Government’s policy of
higher wages, shorter hours, extension of
social-service benefits and vigorous
spending on public works, etc., has added
greatly to the burden of costs, it has also
reduced unemployment and given the
wage-earner more money and more time
in which to spend it—for the present, at
any rate. Furthermore, the Government’s
rigid control of exchange and its licensing
of exports and imports have had no
direct effect upon the beer-brewing, busi-
ness, which, thus far, has gained a bit
more on the swings than it has lost on
the roundabouts. Last term there was
a substantial increase in the co.’s turn-
over, the brew being the biggest yet. The
spring in gross earnings (£1,472,520) was
£121,377. Including excise and provision
for social security and other taxes and con-
tingencies, exes. (£1,326,074) took all but
£2748 of the increase, leaving the net
result at 8.9 p.c. on capital as against
8.7, 9.6, 8.3 and 7.6 p.c. for the four
preceding years; and exes, apparently in-
clude a special £lO,OOO sent to the tax
reserve, raising it to £lOO,OOO. This is
not treated as a free reserve herein,
though it seems to be provision in excess
of actual requirements for the purpose.
The div. was kept at 84 p.c. For the
six and three-quarter years to the close
of accounts in 1930 it averaged 11.4 p.c.,
with wide margins, and was sweetened
with £250,000 of bonus scrip in 1929.
The rate dropped to 124 p.c. in ’3l, fol-
lowed by 8 p.c., and then 7 p.c. for each
of the three years to the end of March,
1935. The distribution was lifted to
74 p.c. in ’36, and to 84 p.c. next term,
and has remained steady since.
When the books last closed, reserves
were visibly £128,338 less than at the
previous balance. That was because
£135,777 (the premium on 543,108 new
£1 shares issued in the previous term)
was taken from the heap and deducted
from the book value of properties, thus
further strengthening inner reserves.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it: —•
1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital . . £1,092,271 £1,635,379 £1,635,379
Mortgages . . . . 39,473 59,785 77,478
Sundry creditors.. 170,917 311,593 321,885
Freeholds, etc. .. 553,084 1,213,540 1,147,514
Plant, etc. . . 120,668 207,179 218,175
Investments . . 559,609 574,817 565,225
Stocks . . . . 160.217 243,078 238,516
Debtors . . . . 211,804 262,914 241,746
Ca-sh . . . . 17,142
The net reduction in the book value of
freeholds, etc., was £66,026 ; so expendi-
ture under this heading exceeded the
year’s ordinary allowance for deprecia-
tion by £69,751. To meet the outlay and
add £10,996 to plant, etc., debtors were
reduced by £21,168, stocks by £4562 and
investments (mostly advances to the
trade) by £9592, while £17,693 was added
to mortgages and £10,292 to the amount
coming to sundry creditors. The con-
traction in the more or less liquid surplus
(£646,124) was £63,307.
As for the current term, employment
remains at a high level, costs continue
to climb, and the Government is begin-
ning to meet with difficulties in connec-
tion with public finance, which makes the
outlook in many respects confused and
uncertain. Meanwhile, the Government
continues to tighten its grip upon the
whole economic structure.
The market prices the pound shares,
covered by 225. 6d. in net tangibles, at
375. 6d. as against 425. 9d. a. year ago.
The return at 375. 6d. is 4.5 p.c. on an
84 p.c. div. basis.


visitors to the Leipzig fair
(Greater Germany)
Notwithstanding the alarmist news in certain sections of the Press, Australian visitors
to Greater Gerjnany are assured of security of person and property, and a genuinely
enthusiastic welcome from the Government Officials and people throughout that
country.
The Leipzig Trade Fair is international in every aspect, and many thousands of
commercial and professional men and women from all parts of the world will conduct
their transactions and holiday tours in peace and tranquillity.
Full information covering this greatest of all International Trade Fairs available of
the Commissioner in Australia for the Leipzig International Industries Fair, Challis
House, Martin Place, Sydney.
LEIPZIG AUTUMN FAIR COMMENCES AUGUST 27.
GUARANTEED
FOR TWO
FREE SETTINcHH
wm
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
.Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. A 1 1
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle .. .
Superfine steel, Ivory handle
ALL POST FREE.
12/C
15/6
21/-
Plum Razor Guards, to fit § and 3 blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITREN, 654 George St., Sydney
TEMPERED PRESDWDOD
Ik
&
a
4SS
for the
Country-man
cane-ite
• Boards of Sheet-steel strength, impermeable.
weatherproof-boards of Masonite Tempered Presd-
wood. Tempered Presdwood. properly applied, will
never warp, crack or splinter. It is grainless and
will take any grade of paint or lacquer. It is easy
to work and is supplied in sheets of handy size and
ind h !u n9ht tJ } icknesses - F « your barns, sheds
“ d f outhouses—for any type of construction which
must stand up to all weathers and conditions. Mason-
bLLT? er ! d n Pre^r° d ' the manufactured all-wood
hundred 1 ”,,? ft \ widths U P to 12 ft. in length, has a
" a,urai The sam -
Insulation of all build-
ings for the housing
of stock, poultry,
etc., means better
health conditions and
higher output. Cane-
ite, the white-ant-
proofed, non-warping,
non-sagging cane in-
sulation boards, pro-
vide the most inex-
pensive yet highly
effective medium for
profitable insulation
yOUr neareit br °nch. Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. MA-25-9
Walter Reid and Co., Ltd. (Q.)
May, Profit. Dividends. ten Off. JemT staves
i?;o7o I ;;§§ !;B l&BB
1935.. 31,338 8 „ ~ 20,000 1,759 9 579 272 904
1937" 33 008 8 -,»> 20,000 1,957 9*845 282’,749
1038" 8 ”” 20 ’ 000 2,992 10,076 292,825
iqfo" £ ~,, 20,000 2,955 12,090 305,515
1139.. 34,117 8 „ ~ 20,000 3,135 10,982 316,497
inis co. is in the general merchandising
and agency business, with headquarters at
Rockhampton and strong connections in
central and far-western Queensland,
turnings, which are assisted by steady
returns from a fine wad of investments
outside the business, are governed partly
by conditions in the pastoral industry,
i he last term opened with low prices for
wool and sheep and drought in the
ihompson and Barcoo districts, which
have as yet received but little relief,
though the rest of the State benefited by
good rains early in 1939 and by some
satisfactory falls since. The co.’s busi-
ness, however, appears to have held well
gross earnings being only £240 short of
the previous year’s:
Gross
f i ofit. liiXes. profit Type
1981 " £l Qo’n?f £ £ l,4 £ 6 1935 -- £87,653 £56,315
Jqoo" £ 2 > 044 74 ’ 472 1936.. 87,592 55 789
4 ? 32 " £ 8 ’ 163 60,413 1937.. 95,208 62,140
4933 " oo’ 298 57 ’ 882 1938.. 101,091 65,446
1934.. 82,440 55,370 1939.. 100,851 66,734
Including depreciation (£3135, up £180)
and something for bad and doubtful
accounts, exes, were £l2BB heavier, leav-
ing the net result £1528 lighter at 13.6 p.c.
on capital as against 14.2, 13.2, 12.7,
12.5, 10.8, 9.3, 11.1, 6.4 and 14.8 p.c. back
to 1930, when the big break in conditions
occurred. The cautious board kept the
div. at 8 p.c. ; for 20 years to the close
of accounts in 1932 the rate was steady
at 10 p.c., sweetened with a 2| p.c. bonus
during the fattest periods. The £10,982
that remained piled reserves £66,497
higher than paid capital.
When the books closed the co. had
more invested outside the business than
in it. Consider these figures:
n , 1936. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £250,000 £250,006 £250,000 £250,000
Liabilities . . 36,115 33,068 52,615 41,497
Stock . . .. 208,298 135,930 147,811 146,930
Book debts . . 76,095 38,364 72,415 71,576
Cash • • ■ • 63,676 47.122 47,080 35,375
Freeholds and ] f
plant .. | 243,568 \ 66,292 65,544 65,520
Investments ..j [ 309,471 '307,538 319,521
At the end of May the pound shares
were backed by net tangibles with a book
value of 455. 4d. each, of which 28s. 4d.
was in cash and investments—book debts
alone more than covered outside liabili-
ties. Thus the co. is in a position to
return the whole or part of its share
capital without hamstringing itself. Pre-
cisely what the board aims at in bulging
the family stocking in this way has not
thus far been announced. Meanwhile,
shareholders and the market speculate
and wait.
On an 8 p.c. div. basis the shares at
395. 4d. return 4 p.c., which is a satis-
factory yield from a sound stock with
possibilities like this one.
Swallow and Ariell, Ltd. (Melb.)
Added
April, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
~ .£? j*
1929.. 23,159 7 p.c. = 21,006 2,159 118 180
1930.. 22,806 7 „ „ 21,000 1 806 119.986
Loss.
1931. . 5,983 Nil —. 114,003
Special depreciation, etc., £25,025.. 88 978
Profit. , °
1932.. 2,625 Nil 9l 603
1933.. 3,230 3* p.c. = 3,000 230 91 833
1934.. 14,492 12* „ ~12,000 2,492 94’325
1935.. 16,910 15* „ „ 15,000 1,910 96,235
1936.. 18,625 t „,, 14,000 4,625 100,860
1937.. 20,282 t ~ „ 14,000 6,282 107 142
1938.. 20,398 t „ „ 16,000 4,398 111,540
1939.. 12,594 § „,, 11,000 1,594 113,134
To investments depreciation reserve,
£15,000 98,134
* Pref. only. f Pref., 6 p.c.; old., 4 p.c.
I Pref., 6 p.c.; ord., 5 p.c. § Pref. 6 p.c.; ord. 21 p.c.
Shareholders in this biscuit, cake and
plum-pudding business have never grown
bilious on account of rich returns there-
from. Divs. averaged 8.6 p.c. for the
nine years to the close of accounts in
1920, 7,4 p.c. for the next decade, and
1.7 p.c. for the nine difficult years (the
first five of them were dry) to the end
of April last. Competition has always
kept profit margins fine, and made it
difficult to pass on increasing costs to
the consumer. Because mechanical effi-
ciency affects both costs and profits, the
factory was electrified and the organisa-
t on overhauled in 1928 ; then, early in
me 1938 term, new plant, claimed the
equal to anything in the Southern Hemi-
sp ere, was installed, and a new build-
ing was put up to house it.
. the co- has met with no luck. The
incidence of the flour tax, which ranged
up to £5 15s. per ton, and exes, inciden-
tal tp disposal of the co.’s Mildura
branch affected earnings for the 12
months covered by the latest accounts.
Over the same period the subsidiaries —-
Swallow and Ariell (Ice Cream) Pty.,
Swallow and Ariell (Dehydrated Pro-
ducts) Pty., and Heparidine Distributors
Pty. together netted £1699, reducing
their accumulated loss at April 27 to
£21,805, which has been disclosed for
the first time under the new Victorian
Companies Act. After allowing £15,536
for depreciation, there was a contraction
■ £7804 in the parent’s net earnings,
which were sufficient to pay the pref. div.
(£6000) and show 3.3 p.c. on the £200,000
of ord. capital. The div. was lowered
from 5 p.c. to 2\ p.c., and £15,000 was
earmarked as a reserve for special de-
preciation of shares in other cos., in at
£42,997, thus reducing the lay-by to
£98,134.
Combining the figures of the entire
organisation, gross earnings were figured
at £158,279, and exes, (including £25,991,
or 7.1 p.c. of book value of fixed assets,
for depreciation) at £143,987, thus leav-
ing a profit of £14,292, or enough to pay
the prefs. their minimum requirements
(6 p.c.) and show 4.1 p.c. on the parent’s
ord. capital.
Here are combined balance-sheet
figures for the parent and three subsi-
diaries, also disclosed for the first time
under the new Act:
Liabilities. Assets
Paid capital .. £300,000 Freeholds .! £206.373
Reserve .. 71,200 Plant, etc. . . 155,456
P. &1. balance 29,129 Stocks .. .. 51,532
Tax provision. . 7,953 Debtors .. 60,482
Overdraft .. 35,575 Cash, etc. .. 3,120
Other creditors 36,731 Goodwill .. 3,625
£480,588 £480,588
When the books closed, stocks, debtors’
balances and cash together exceeded the
outside debt, excluding provision for
taxation, by £42,828, which is about
£12,000 stronger than the position as dis-
closed in the parent’s books alone.
As for the current term, appearances
are that the management will have to
fight hard to maintain turnover, and
costs, including taxation, remain on the
up-grade. Still, earnings will be free
from non-recurring expenditure con-
nected with last year’s branch closure,
which should enhance prospects of a
better showing.
The market, doubtful of the extent of
the co.’s recuperative powers, prices the
30s. ords. paid to 20s. at 15s. and the
pound prefs. at 21s. The return at these
prices is 3.3 p.c. and 5.7 p.c. respectively
on the basis of last year’s distributions.
The investor in the ords. at 15s. who
looks for 6 p.c. on his money counts on
a 4} p.c. div. The net tangible cover
is £3 19s. sd. prefs. and 295. 9d. ords.,
chiefly in fixed assets, worth what they
can earn.
Raub Australian G.M. Co.
This Brisbane-controlled co. has
worked a long line of parallel lodes at
Pahang (F.M.S.) since 1892. The gold-
bearing ore occurs as a replacement in
a shear zone, and the irregular and
faulted nature of the ore-bodies has
made mining both difficult and uncertain
and development expensive. General
run of the ore being low-grade, the man-
agement has had to rely upon rich shoots
to keep up the grade of mill-feed.
At the close of the ’3B accounts ore
reserves were put at a mere 25,000 tons,
or less than six months’ mill supply. Ex-
penditure last term of £28,356 (making
a total of £115,037 in four years) on
development, however, produced results,
and, despite treatment of 63,985 tons dur-
ing the year, reserve ore is now put at
111,000 tons—s9,ooo tons labelled posi-
tive and 52,000 tops as nearly so as can
be estimated. The figure has seldom
been higher. Values aren’t given ; ten-
dency has been for the sulphides to be-
come poorer with depth and more dif-
ficult to treat.
The leases are held on a concession,
negotiations for renewal of which are
proceeding. Assisted by the new sands
re-treatment plant, which is handling cur-
rent and old tailings, and a higher price
for gold, net profit last term showed a
sharp lift of £25,001 stg., after charging
the development beforementioned and an
extra £lO,OOO for depreciation:
r-Surplus—^ , Divs.
Mar., Revenue, Exes.* Amt. Share. Share. Amt.
£Stg. £ Stg. £Stg. £ Stg-.
1937.. 173,310 101,941 71,369 l/9i 1/8 66,666
1938.. 144,755 101,174 43,581 l/l“ 1/1 43,334
1939.. 193,929 125,347 68,582 1/8$ 1/7 63,333
* Including depreciation: 1937, £7500;
1938, £3000; 1939, £13,000.
Quarterly distributions totalling Is. 7d.
(up 6d.) a share were made, calling for
£5249 less than the profit claimed and
making the aggregate distribution to date
£808,998 stg. Following an independent
investigation, exploitation of the co.’s tin
deposits, north of the power plant, has
been abandoned for the present, owing to
the possibility of silt interfering with the
hydro-electric machinery on the river.
Book value (£3474) of the leases has been
written off against reserves.
Financial figures are made up to
March 31, whereas the crushing year
terminates on Feb. 25. Recent per-
formances :
, Battery Sands.
1937. 1938. 1939. 1939.
Treated, tons .. 62,339 65,324 63,985 81,134
Head value, dwt. 9.53 7.59 7.73 2.89
Gold yield, oz. .. 24,546 20,217 18,953 7,439
Dwt., ton . . 7.88 6.19 5.92 1.84
Extraction, p.c. 82.6 81.5 77.5 63.6
Real’ll, oz. .. £7/0/7 £*V/0/2 £7/4/8 £7/4/8
Costs, ton .. 29/9 28/8 28/4 4/2
Costs, as high as 40s. 3d. a ton in ’36,
are being consistently pulled back, last
term’s 28s. 4yd. (down 3yd.) being made
up of mining 10s. 3£d., treatment 2s. 3d.,
development Bs. 10|d., realisation and
administration 6s. Further reduc-
tion is aimed at, together with improved
metallurgical practice; this to bring
lower-grade ore within the scope of pro-
fitable milling.
The new sands plant was responsible
for over a quarter of the year’s revenue ;
extraction was 63.6 p.c., as against an
estimated 80 p.c., but better is looked
for. When the plant was mooted 270,000
tons of accumulated slimes assaying
2dwt. and 30,000 tons assaying 4dwt.
were said to be available, to which have
to be added sands of ore since treated.
Development was concentrated in the
Bukit Koman, where two shoots of pay-
ore have been intersected north of North
shaft, and Raub sectors, where the
stringer zones worked above No. 2 level
were picked up on Nos. 3 and 4 horizons.
Current term’s programme is aimed at
the prospecting of known ore-bodies, in-
cluding the western lode now yielding
well in the Raub shaft.
Recoveries for the first 16 weeks of
the current term have been lower at an
average 5.32dwt. from the battery and
I.s7dwt. from the re-treatment plant.
Mine profit is averaging approx. £5600
stg. per four-weekly period.
At 10s. per ss. stg. share—Boo,ooo are
issued—local investors express confidence
in the future by placing a valuation of
£400,000 Aust. on the mine. At March
31 more or less liquids amounted to
£73,661 stg., including investments
(£48,080) at below market value; in-
debtedness was £32,090.
Formed late in 1938, Associated Gold
Dredges (N.Z.) has lost no time with its
development programme. Nominal capi-
tal is £200,000 in 197,000 £1 ord. and


OIL I* *
MOTOR OIL
CAN PREVENT ITL
S?
m
Thousands of times a minute, with
each opening and closing of the valves,
with each stroke of the pistons, petrol
is robbed of some power.
YOU are paying for petrol that sneaks by unused-You’ll get
the most mileage from your petrol-more power and speed-
and less maintenance-with VEEDOL. Millions of motorists the
world over have found that VEEDOL is truly the * Extra Mileage
Motor Oil."
Fill up to-day with VEEDOL and give your car a chance to get
your money’s worth out of whatever petrol you use.
Demand VEED OJL —It costs no tttofi
V 391
IMEPTUNE OIL COMPANY PTY.
f INCORPORATED ’ N N-S.W.] ALL JLIAI-L—'
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* • * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. VV. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
For all Pump Repairs and Replacements, get in
touch with William Adams & Company, Limited,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Agents for WORTH-
INGTON PUMPS for all services. Write for our
latest General Catalogue.— Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
ARE YOUR SAVINGS
EARNING A FAIR
RATE OF
INTEREST
‘ ■
If not you owe It to yourself and
to enquire about
FIBST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Wees :: Union
insurance Society of Canton Ltd*
VPV/te for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 O.PXX, SYDNEY
TELEPHONE? B 5294
60,000 Is. deferred shares. The first issue
(£75,000) was quickly taken. The co.
has what look like four attractive areas
on the west coast of the South Island
.—Marsden, about 10 miles from Grey-
mouth; Red Jacks; near Ngahere ;
Hinau, about four miles upstream from
the Grey River dredge; the fourth is
on the Big River, near Blackball. There
is 58,000,000 c.y., averaging about three
grains, measured up. It is proposed to
equip each area with a modern all-steel
electric bucket dredge of the Bulolo No.
6 type, capable of treating 1,000,000 c.y.
p.a. or more. The first unit is expected
to commence on the Marsden property
about February, 1940; the other three
within two years. The areas were tested
under supervision of British Develop-
ments (N.Z.), Ltd., manager and secre-
tary of the co. The directors have been
appointed on condition that a 20 p.c. div.
is paid each year, failing which they re-
tire. After payment of the div. they
are entitled to 5 p.c. of the balance re-
maining in any one financial year. The
shares, paid up to 55., fetch around 7s. 3d.
* * * *
After years of fruitless work on the
New Gympie area, the Tribute Co.,
which took over in 1938, has raised its
first payable crushing of any size, 40
tons, yielding 68oz. Queensland geolo-
gists made out a strong case for prospect-
ing this faulted block to the limit, on
•the theory that the plumbago beds would
be found to continue there. The original
co. put in years without getting anything
outstanding, and dropped a bunch of
leases, now rushed on the report of this
crushing. It will probably be more than
a flash in the pan. Gympie field has
special features not reproduced any-
where else in Australia. The essentials
are that there must be west- dipping quartz
reefs or leaders cutting against east-dip-
ping plumbago. When these two com-
bine perfectly there is always the chance
of a jeweller’s shop.
Fred Cuthbert, the G.O.M. of Queens-
land goldmining, returning from Misima
to Croydon (N.Q.) a few years back, got
waylaid at Hawkins Hill, where he took
on a mine that Cliff Rutledge had been
constrained to drop. It is only a step
over to Croydon, where the King of Wal-
labadah’s recent trial crushing went an
ounce to the ton. Now 60 tons has been
raised, and if this comes up to the sample
it will not be surprising to see Fred
Cuthbert back in Croydon, where the
dumps on the Golden Gate and Content
bear witness to his energy when Croydon
was a goldfield.
SN He Hs *
H. H. Miller, of Golden Plateau, and
Wallace Smith recently looked over the
auriferous alluvials at Three Moon
Creek. With a small plant, H. de V.
Gipps proved a couple of years back
that there was a big stretch of stuff worth
looking into below Cania (C.Q.), where
a good deal of reefing was done in the
’nineties. Three Moon is a fine stream
issuing out of Dawes Range, with a wide
stretch of alluvial below undoubted reef-
ing country. A 700-acre dredging lease
has been secured, and, if the tests now
being carried out are up to the mark, a
machine will be installed.
* * * *
Unusual winter rains —up to four
inches —have brightened Mt. Garnet
(N.Q.) dredging concerns. All dredge
dams have been filled, and Return and
Nettle Creeks are running strongly, which
means that no water troubles are likely
before summer storms come along. Pro-
duction is round about 30 tons of tin
concentrates per month.
* * * *
During 1938 Gt. Boulder (W.A.) reduced
working costs by 2s. 9.6 d. a ton and in-
creased percentage of gold extraction by
2.02 p.c. After extracting over 300,000
tons, ore reserves, positive and probable,
increased by 151,298 tons, reaching
1,213,496 tons. Development work aggre-
gated 18,763 ft., and about the same foot-
age of diamond-drilling was done. Man-
ager Hylton reports that tributing, over
which there has been a lot of fuss, is
now only a negligible factor in ore-
production. That London committee,
which recently failed to dislodge the
present control at the annual meeting, is
now reported to be approaching the
British Board of Trade with a request
for a special inquiry into the business.
* * * *
De Bernales Westralian group con-
tinues to do its share in gold production.
In May, Great Boulder contributed
bullion valued at £75,073, Yellowdine
£19,440, Comet £6BOO, Emu £10,265 and
Gladiator £2655'. All figures in Austra-
lian currency. Phcenix (old Bayley s
Reward) and one or two other ventuies
are preparing to produce. E. Faye, the
live young chairman and managing
director of Mines Management and Sec-
retariat, Ltd., which is the group s general
manager in Westralia, is off to London
shortly. Leo Gibbons, lately of Tindals,
is about to become chief mining engineer
of this organisation.
ft ft
Lalla Rookh, Meekatharra Gold
Mines’ unprofitable purchase at Marble
Bar (W.A.), has been abandoned, and
plant moved to the Comet in the same
district. Favorable reports by officers of
the Northern Australia Aerial Geological
Survey and others are said to have
prompted the Meekatharra co. to pay
£42,000 for the property. It did some
development, then estimated reserves at
6000 tons, averaging Bdwt., and talked of
treating 300 tons a month to begin with,
the aim being to gradually increase
throughput to 1000 tons a month. Later,
operations were discontinued because
refractory ore made treatment too diffi-
cult and expensive.
* * * #
111-luck still dogs Luxall (W.A.). Last
year it incurred a loss of £305. There
was no revenue. Originally the Pride
of Monger, the co. first bought for cash
some alleged auriferous areas at Bur-
banks, which it later abandoned. Sub-
sequently other blocks at Mertondale
were tried and found wanting.
* * * *
Western Queen (W.A.), which left
Warda Warra to look for something
better at Norseman, has gone to Mt.
Magnet, where it has taken an option
over the Evening Star, north of the
Broken Bond, which is being tried out
by Swan Bitter. Prospects are declared
encouraging.
* * * *
From Meekatharra (W.A.): The
State battery has just put through two
good tributors’ crushings, one from
Ingliston South and the other from
Meekatharra Central, each averaging
over ljoz. to the ton. Both mines wet e
formerly worked by subsidiaries of the
Australian Mining Trust, which suspended
operations about the end of 1937. Orf e
of these offshoots paid a small dividend,
the other nil .
* * * *
Despite floods, which gave production
a serious setback in February, West-
ralia’s gold yield for the six months to
June 30 was worth £A5,244,049, an in-
crease of £411,829 on the figure for the
corresponding period of 1938, and the
highest six months’ total for many years.
Output for the 12 months of 1939 is
tipped to reach £11,000,000. Dividends
paid during the first half exceeded
£300,000.
* * * *
Rothsay (W.A.) is gone, but not for-
given by those who backed its prospects.
The few men remaining in employment
there have been given notice, and in a
little while the township at the mine is
certain to be deserted. Thousands or
pounds’ worth of plant recently installed
is for sale.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
C.A.H.: Professor Lehmer’s estimate of the
Powers’ investments in China in 1931 were, in
American dollars: Gt. Britain 1189.2 millions,
Japan (excluding Manchukuo) 494 millions,
U.S.A. 196.8 millions, France 192.4 millions....
F.X.O’M.: The gold areas in Dutch West
Borneo have been abandoned. The Kapa ivapa
(Papua) manganese deposits have just been
leased to Melbourne interests on a royalty
basis The red-oxide lease at Rigo (Papua)
and the co.’s Maoriland property remain
to be dealt with Constant Reader: Market
value... .G.McM.: (1) No open market; write
secretary and ask if he can find a buyer. (2)
They are a long-term speculation, and guesses
as to what returns bondholders are likely to
get aren’t worth much at the moment. (3)
The co. will carry out its contract to plant,
etc., but the final problem is to sell the forest
products at a profit. (4) Gamble.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
ill
fmi
m
Him
■ M 8 s ’ -
t
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE " Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Specs, in moving-picture shares.”
To magnify the dividends?
•b •b •!« -b
“When you shiver you are generating more
heat than you would perspiring freely in a
heat-wave.” —Scientific note.
That’s why you can get cold feet and
be hot and bothered at the same time.
•b •b •b >b
“Books for lonely lighthouse dwellers.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
Perhaps How to Win Friends and In-
fluence People.
•b
“Every £1 or 10s. note handed over the
counter is ‘checked’ by the assistant with a
floor-walker.” — Sydney weekly.
To pass one is, of course, quite a
counter feat.
•b r b <b <b
“Sweating in the Radio Trade.”
—Sydney weekly headline.
The crooner who heard that several
listeners were waiting for him outside.
•b •b -b <b
“He made a sudden decision. He cancelled
the appointment to meet his wife in town.”
— Women’s paper.
Well, that was a wait off his mind.
' •b q. .j.
“A man can live for quite a long time on
water.” — “Sun.”
That’s nothing. People have lived for
over a hundred years on earth.
•b -b "b “b
“Marriage doesn't make a good writer or
a bad one.”— Faith Baldwin.
Maybe not, but it leaves many a man
scratching for words.
* •b "b 4*
“Women don’t bother about what they don’t
see.”— Rosita Forbes.
After all, they can always get the de-
tails from the lady next door.
<*• *i* •b “b
“Curls like commas make up the latest
coiffure.” — Fashion note.
The idea being that they’ll bring men
to a fullstop.
•b •b •b -b
“The fat officer looked as though he had
been poured into his uniform.”
—Extract from short story.
Apparently he had forgotten to say
“when.”
‘•People who have .anything to do with horses
are usually healthy.” —Medical note.
Others find that horses upset their
systems.
•J* 4* 4* »j*
“Never talk about yourself in company.”
—Etiquette hint.
That is done for you after you have
left.
4* 4 1 4*
“A Sydney magistrate has asked what any
woman could possibly want with a dozen new
frocks.”
That’s easy—a dozen new hats.
*£*
“Prisoners in an English gaol regularly prac-
tise part-singing under the leadership of a
visiting Judge.” —News item.
They take their time from him.
•P *f«
“Avoid the temptation to bring your boat
into the wind too soon.” —Yachting note.
He luffs best who luffs last.
•P *p 4 1
“Mayfair’s latest and most sophisticated
dance consists of a series of deliberate bruising
collisions known technically as ‘boomps.’ ”
—Dance news.
But is this new?
“Cripes, Alf, these ’planes are a boon to us blokes on the Wallaby.”
The Modem He-man.
“Girls still adore cavemen, and some men
take advantage of this.” — Women’s paper.
There was a loud report and the sleek
sedan wobbled and came to a standstill.
“What’s the matter, darling?” cooed
the fair passenger.
The man opened the door and, taking
the girl by the scruff of the neck, hurled
her out into the dust.
“Puncture, sweetheart,” replied the
caveman driver, sitting back in his seat
and lighting a cigarette ; “get busy with
that spare.”
Leon.
4*
“Take care of your feet and they will take'
care of you.”— Women’s paper.
The shortest distance between two
pints is a straggly line.
“The invention of wireless has shortened the
life of a popular song from 12 months to
19 days.”— Musical magazine.
Now will the critics of radio be still
heard?
4* 4 1 4*
“What is the difference between a formal
and an informal introduction?”
—Etiquette column.
The answer to a formal one is: “How
do you do?” To an informal one:
“Hullo, did you bring a bottle?”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Jazz originated in Cuba.”
—Melbourne University debater.
No wonder the people there are always
in revolt.
4- * * *
“Is cannibalism still practised in the world
to-day ? ” — Correspondent.
Well, lots of newlyweds live on their
parents.
•P •£. .j.
Some men are like lamps—they thrive
on spirits and are easily put out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
An optimist is a man who tries to
read a politician’s mind.
4* 4* 4 1 4*
“Pillar Boxes for Munitions'in Japan.”
For holding outposts?
Even a worm will turn when the
traffic-cop isn’t looking.
•h
“What have the stars in store for us?”
—Astrological blurb.
Millions of feet of celluloid coated
with ballyhoo.
+ 4*
“Performing elephant swallows workman’s
wages.” —News item.
Evidently the female of the species.
Difference.
Every person is necessary in this world
just as every letter is necessary to form a com-
plete word.” —Psychology article.
For instance, take the letter “e” ;
It hereby proves its worth :
“Though marriages are made in heav’n,
They’re also mad on earth.”
ELM.
The Ideal Countryside.
Maria simply adores the country.
Only that she is married to a man who
refuses to leave the city pubs, nothing
would satisfy her more than living in
the country, breathing the pure air and
listening to the locusts in the trees and
the murmur of brooks.
Maria can become quite lyrical upon
the subject. If only she had married
some wealthy squatter! I dare not tell
her how I echo that wish.
But Maria, having gone to stay at Cow-
ville for a month, was back in two days.
“Why,” she said on her return, “the
place simply teems with snakes! After
they told me that a snake had been
killed over at Orchard’s farm, I felt I
simply couldn’t go to sleep. If I had
spent another night there I’d have been
a nervous wreck.”
“But,” I said, “Orchard’s farm is three
miles away”
“Now,” snapped Maria, “that’s just
the way you would talk. If there were
snakes killed on Orchard’s farm that
only shows that the snakes in Lil’s
place have not been killed. And you
needn’t be sarcastic. I do love the
country; but I really think that Reg
ought to see that Lil has a gas stove
and electric light and proper water laid
on, and not have to depend on tanks
that you don’t know what’s got into.”
You see what Maria’s idea of the
country is—a place with all suburban
conveniences except the pub.
1 wish she could find some place like
that, say, five hundred miles away, and
go to it for a holiday. I need one.
H.M.
Impression.
In bygone days a kiss expressed
Young love’s eternal spark ;
To'-day, when two fond lips are pressed,
They leave a vivid mark.
PATON.
“Your feet deserve the proper boots,”
The slogan oft is hooted.
But it’s when your feet begin to stray
You’re likely to be booted.
Strike a Light!
“Gas is responsible for more than 3000 deaths
a year in this country alone.” —News item.
Many who leave this vale of tears
Find gas their aid to heavenly spheres.
Some, fed up with earthly care,
Inhale it and depart elsewhere.
Others (one is born each minute)
Foolishly strike matches in it.
I dedicate my humble sonnet
To the lost who gaily step upon it.
LEON.
How to Become a Handyman.
A Complete Guide.
XIII.
It is a popular misconception that the
building of a fowlhouse is just a matter
of poking in a few posts, tacking on
wire netting, nailing galvanised iron on
to a couple of shorter posts and there
you are, Actually, it calls for mathemati-
cal precision and more than a rudimen-
tary knowledge of architecture.
First select the position in the back-
yard where you intend putting the fowl-
run. It would be idiotic to sacrifice
flower or vegetable beds or lawns. Obvi-
ously the most suitable place is that area
which encloses the clotheslines, for it has
+ f i • ~
LaJ - advant f§ e °f Placing the
washing m an almost burglar-proof
f f , ... . ,
Th S e C °VJ ie owlrun Wlll depend on
Allow”™? « you propose keeping.
Allow, say four cubic feet of space per
fowl-pound. Thus you will need to buy
your birds first (they can be kept tern-
porartly on the verandah or m the laun-
M \ et *f r total weight. The
ing C tous S marked
them evenly. The spaces will be dictated
by the condition of the. ground Only
sink them where the soil is very hard and
rocky, for in this ground the posts will
be less liable to sag in wet weather. It
may be harder work, but it will be worth
it. Dont dig them more than sft. deep
comfortably de en ° UBh ‘° P ° S *
Next thing is to determine the height
of the: wi re : ne tting that wffl enclose them,
Patently thiswffl need to be only slightly
higher than the maximum height your
best flying bird can reach. Conduct tests
to ascertain this. A hunger lighted under
each hen at feeding time will give a good
tryout to their wing-power. Mark the
spot in the air reached by the highest
flier and measure to the ground, adding a
few more inches to be on the safe side.
Next lay your posts on the ground,
each one alongside a hole, the top of
post facing outwards, the butt-end of it
slap up against the hole. Starting five
feet up the depth of the hole—lay the
netting over each post (it will bulge a
bit as you turn each corner, but that
can’t be helped), and attach it to the
post by 6in. nails, knocked in half-way
and bent over. If you used staples, ham-
mered right into the wood, you’d have
a devil of a job if ever you wanted to
dismantle the fowlrun.
This idea of putting the wire on the
posts before you put them up is far
superior to the old way of getting your
posts in first and then hanging your wire
on ; there is no straining and pulling at
the posts once they are up.
Now comes the really ticklish part of
the job. On the face of it, it would
appear impossible for one man to hoist
from ten to twenty posts, all attached
with wire and forming roughly a square.
Yet by application of Einstein’s Theory,
Newton’s Law, the Archimedean Principle
and plain commonsense, they can be
raised simultaneously.
Dig a very deep hole in the exact
centre of the area you are wiring-in. On
to the very edge of it push some exceed-
ingly heavy object, such as a roller or
an old fly-wheel. Secure wire ropes to
the further (i.e., what will be the top )
end of each post, and tie the other end
of these ropes to the heavy object. It
is then just a matter of pushing this down
the deep hole you’ve made, and the posts
must automatically rise up, on the prin-
ciple of an umbrella opening ; the ends
will slide into the holes and, hey, presto!
your fowlrun is finished.
You have still to build a shelter inside
the run.
Most important is the aspect. Face it
west. Your birds will thus not be an-
noyed by having the rising sun in then-
eyes. Being enabled to have a longer
sleep, fowls are more contented and
better fitted for the task allotted them by
Nature.
Fowls are by nature gregarious, and
have the community spirit highly de-
veloped. A long roost that will hold them
all will please them better than a lot of
smaller roosts scattered unsociably here
and there ; moreover, it looks tidier when
the fowls are sleeping.
Find the required length of the roost,
which should be skived down to an
octagonal shape to give the birds a better
grip, and around this build the shelter.
Mark out the area, and at each corner
sink in concrete a 6in. x 6in. hardwood
P ost you can’t chance annihilation of
good layers by building a structure that
may come down on them in the first high
wind. The posts should be of a sufficient
height to allow a good slope for the roof.
Cover the sides with tea-tree that has been
dipped in tar, which will make them
waterproof yet airy. “Pitch” the roof,
covering it first with heavy-gauge gal-
vanised iron and then with roofing
material. Nothing is more conducive to
a fowl’s getting a drawn look than its
being kept awake at night through rain
belting straight down on iron just above
its head.
Last thing is to arrange the roost. This
should be placed in such a position that
the rooster —who will be the tallest in
the herd—can sleep in comfort and yet
will be unable to lift his head to deliver
an ill-timed crow in the night watches
without banging his head on the roof.
Fowls at best are inclined to brood a
lot, and the cheerless sight of rain drip-
ping off a roof close to their beaks not
only puts them in danger of becoming
cock-eyed, but induces in them melan-
cholia. To obviate this, put a small
gutter around the roof and carry the rain
off with a downpipe.
S. W. K.


Make the WENTWORTH
your Home while in Sydney
The Wentworth is noted for its kindly hospitality. You
are treated with the consideration you would meet with
in your own home. Although close to business and
social centres, the Wentworth is situated in an elevated
position away from trams, trains and other annoying
influences.
Three new floors of bedrooms, all with private bathrooms
—24-hour hot water service and telephones.
WENTWORTH HOTEL
SYDNEY C. D. MACLURCAN, Managing Director.
PACK YOUP smi
In less than a minute . . . without
folding or crushing ... in a
lightweight Globite Aeroplane
Case. One and two suit sizes.
F 4 #®
CLQBITE
AEROPLANE
CASE
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
BRITAIN, JAPAN AND CHINA
THE LOAN COUNCIL
AND
SECURITY PRICES
MINES AND METALS
July Issue Now On Sale.
pni/ir l ppi ? COPY or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM. POSTED.
PRICE 21- PER t 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 ueorge a
Business,Rorrery,Etc.
Bank Credit and Defence
On July 6 the Commonwealth Bank
made available a copy of a memo, sub-
mitted to the Federal Government in
March last. It deals with central bank
credit and what can be done with it ;
also what can’t be done with it. As it
deals with facts, it will appeal to those
who are accustomed to facing facts, but
will not be so popular with State
Premiers who are on more intimate terms
with hazy pipe-dreams about financial
matters. Only too often with them the
big thing is to borrow as much and to
spend as much as possible regardless of
consequences.
The bank points out that where there
is already full employment credit expan-
sion cannot create more employment, a
maximum being a maximum in employ-
ment as in anything else. If, with full
employment, bank credits are made avail-
able for defence work, it simply means
that men are transferred from commer-
cial or social services to defence activity.
As to other effects of central bank loans
during a period of full employment:
When there is not general unemployment
loans by the central bank can be no help for
defence or any other purpose. They cannot
cause any new production. They can only
compete with existing money for the resources
which are already being used. We shall not
have any more goods produced, and in the long
run we may even have less because of the
dislocations in the productive organisation
caused by the use of central bank loans.
We shall have more defence works but so
much less consumption goods or ordinary
capital goods.
Our standard of living will be lowered just
as if the money were being raised by taxation.
But if it were raised by taxation it is prob-
able that the loss would be borne by those best
able to afford it. When the money is raised
from the central bank, and there is not general
unemployment, the effect is to raise .prices, and
raising prices would spread the loss unevenly,
and inequitably.
There are other very serious difficulties about
loans from the central bank when there is. not
general unemployment, but, without considering
them in more detail, it is clear that as a means
of financing defence these loans are worse
than taxation in their effects on the general
standard of living because of the unfair redis-
tribution of income and dislocation to which
they lead.
At the present time, though employment
is not as high as it was, there is no great
unemployment. The ■ tendency, however,
is for fewer jobs to be available owing to
the fall in the national income and to war
scares.
When there is general unemployment,
a loan from the central bank may. be useful,
particularly if for some reason people will not
subscribe to a public loan. But it would not
provide the defence works at any less burden
to the community in its effects on the standard
of living than a public loan. It is only the
machinery for bringing into use the unemployed
resources in men and equipment.
A small loan by the central bank is capable
in some circumstances of going a long way
in using unemployed resources. It makes an
addition to the liquid reserves of the trading
banks and may enable them to make a much
greater increase in advances, with consequent
business activity which would bring into use
the idle resources of men and equipment. For
instance, a central bank loan of £5,000,000
would not go a long way for defence works,
but with its indirect effects it might go beyond
what was needed to absorb unemployed re-
sources. Beyond that point it would only raise
prices.
And if inflation starts it means that
checks should be applied in order to
preserve confidence and prevent economic
chaos.
For this reason it is necessary to be able
to withdraw the central bank loan progres-
sively as it does its work. This can be done
only by the central bank selling some of its
bonds to the public, and for this purpose such
“I can't shut window till I finish practisin'.”
rate Qn
SLTais Otherwise no one will buy them,
§ O -' that ' a loan from the central bank has no
advantage over a public loan except that it can
tim- inTesfint
public loan F
At {he mome nt we are suffering from
the effects of prices already inflated by
tb£ r j s j ng cos t of living The Common-
‘ Rank ’o memo * deals with the rise
. . j , , ,
m prices which could be expected from
OV erextension of central bank credit: —
and butter we export, this rise in prices, if it
were slow, might not matter very much. But
for Australia the effect ,s to put up the cost
of producing everything, including exports and
the locally-manufactured goods which com-
pete with imports. But the price received for
exports does not go up to correspond, nor
does the price of imports increase.
So the export producer is in trouble, and
so is the factory competing with imports. The
volume of exports goes down, imports go up,
and exports would not provide sufficient surplus
for Australia to pay for her necessary imports.
Our London funds would be quickly depleted,
and if the issue of central bank credit exceeded
proper limits we should soon be faced with a
serious crisis.
Actually we are seeing some of those
difficulties at the moment. The inflation
in internal prices has occurred, neverthe-
less, without regard to central bank credit
manipulation. But, in however milder a
form, it shows what we could expect
if credit-stretching were seriously
resorted to.
The bank’s memo, closes by emphasis-
ing that credit and its handling, however
expert, can achieve nothing in the nature
of the miraculous, and that there are
better ways of dealing with difficulties
than by the apparently “easy” ways:
The business of the central bank is to regu-
late the supply of money, to increase it when
it is short and reduce it when it is excessive
and when - t is tending to cause overcompeti-
tion for the resources' s available in men and
equipment. Increasing the supply can be done
by making .^ r^ t n rnfprenaid ’ But
ES
buying bonds from the banks or the public,
or Tii, .Tferae
reaso n for increasing the supply ; general
employment one reason for decreasing it.
The needs of defence have nothing to do
with determining the proper supply of money.
]f a central ban b k loa £ j s made for defence at
a time when the money supply does not require
more heavily than .£ the money were ratsed by
taxation „ loan mipht
.It n s true that m e terse ncy a
be made lor delence by the central name wnen
it was quite impossible to raise the money in
any other way, although economic and financial
conditions did not justify it. In that case we
should pay for it to the full. If the safety
of the country demanded it, and there was no
alternative, such a course would have to be
faced, whatever the cost. But it is an expedient
to be used only in the last resort.
It is hard to say which was the wiser
move on the part of the Commonwealth
Bank: That of addressing the memo, to
the Federal Parliament or that of making
its contents public.
Younghusband, Ltd., the Victorian
woolbroking co., is making a new issue
of 100,000 £1 shares at a premium of
4s. a share. The issue has been under-
written by J. B. Were and Son, which has
taken 20,000 of the shares on a firm
basis. Shareholders are offered 80,000
shares, one for five. The old scrip is
at 28s. on the market, and at a meeting
of shareholders on June 30 it was recom-
mended that the directors should not
have the new issue underwritten. The
directors last week stated that they had
“fully considered the recommendation
and have agreed to meet shareholders’
wishes” to the extent that the issue “be
made at a premium of 45.,” the lowest
asked by the co. in a considerable num-
ber of years. It is hard to see, never-
theless, how this makes any difference in
the necessity or otherwise for underwrit-
ing the scrip. Quotations dropped a shil-
ling a share (to 285.) on announcement
of the underwriting agreement.
* * * *
Proceeds of £38,673,957 came from the
auctioning of wool in Australia during
1938-39. In 1937-38 the total was
£43,515,769, so the drop was nearly
£5,000,000, or a little over 11 p.c. Bales
sold totalled 2,929,548, an increase of
168,789 bales, and the average price per
pound for greasy and scoured declined
from 12.7 d. to 10.5 d. Greasy fetched
10.3 d. The following table gives details
of the month-by-month auctionings:
.—Price, per lb.—>
Greasy and
Bales. Greasy. Scoured. Total.
July .. 7,766 10.2 d. 12.7 d. £116,684
August .. 38,437 9.5 d. 10.4 d. 513,007
September 276,942 9.4 d. 9.6 d. 3,505,848
October . . 393,489 10.2 d. 10.4 d. 5,183,600
November 444,892 10.9 d. ll.Od, 6,092,535
December 233,584 ll.Od. 11. Id. 3,184,221
January.. 375,215 ll.Od. 11. Id. 5,098,657
February 334,275 10.9 d. ll.Od. 4,485,593
March .. 371,428 10.4 d. 10.6 d. 4,867,784
April .. 125,686 9.5 d. 9.7 d. 1,497,551
May .. 131,179 9.4 d. 9.8 d. 1,693,359
June .. 196,655 9.0 d. 9.4 d. 2,435,118
Year .. 2,929,548 10.3 d. 10.5 d. £38,673,957
Carryover on June 30 was 98,222 bales,
which compares with 235,701 bales a
year ago. In the 1936-37 season 16.4 d.
was averaged for greasy and 16.7 d. for
greasy and scoured ; the cheque that year
topped £60,000,000. The best feature
about last season’s clip is that the carry-
over of unsold wool is very light. All
the foregoing figures exclude sales in
London. Wool sold overseas would
bring last year’s cheque to above
£40,000,000.
The fall of over £20,000,000 in our
revenue from wool inside two years
naturally has a lot to do with the tighter
money and slower trade now in evidence
within the Commonwealth. New money
of £20,000,000 coming into a country


Clean your
FALSE TEETH
THIS WAY
48!
say Dentists
'Steradent’ cleans false
teeth withqut brushing.
Dentists have subjected it
to severe clinical tests. They
say that it’s by far the best
way to clean and purify
false teeth and dental plates.
Fill the cap of the tin with
'Steradent’ and pour the
powder into a glass contain-
ing sufficient warm water
(not hot) to cover the den-
tures. Stir well. Leave your
false teeth, plates and
bridges in it while you dress or overnight.
Simply rinse and your teeth and plates are fresh
and clean—clean where the brush can’t reach.
'Steradent’ cleans away all stains and film.
Makes dull teeth and gums look like new. Makes
them fresh, cool and comfortable. 'Steradent’ is
the discovery of Dr. L. W. Sherwin, authority on
oral hygiene. “I am recommending ‘Steradent’
strongiy to all my patients,” writes a dentist.
Price 2/-. Double size 3/6. Sold by all chemists.
IMPORTANT. Be sure you get 'Steradent'.
Dentists recommend it.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LIMITED
(Pharmaceutical Dept. ). SYDNEY
Steradent
cleans and sterilizes false teeth
THE
lIMITCn iN SURANCE
(Jill I CU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The United is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
pgjffcjookf
WHEN YOU CAN
BUY CHEVROLET AND GET AT
■■■■more VALUE
Chevrolet is the quality car of the low-priced field. Its history is one of outstanding
motor car value that’s why it’s the world’s best seller today as it has been in 7 of
the last 8 years. Look into Chevrolet and you’ll see that it has more value features
engineered into it than any competitive car . . . you’ll see that Chevrolet alone is
the car, that gives you all that’s best at lowest cost!
HERE'S THE WAY TO PROVE CHEVROLET'S £5O EXTRA VALUE l
We say Chevrolet offers you at least £5O extra value
compared with competitive cars. And here’s a quick
way to prove it. Set your own valuation on Chevrolet
features which are not offered by competitive makes.
For instance, consider the ...
EXTRA VALUE of Chevrolet’s 6-cyl. Overhead Valve
Engine against conventional L-head types.
VALUE of Chevrolet’s “Pilot-Seat” Driving
Vision. No competitive car gives you Chevrolet’s
amazing “see-ability”.
EXTRA VALUE of Chevrolet’s Holden All-Steel
Body against other bodies.
EXTRA VALUE of Chevrolet’s Perfected Indepen-
dent Front Wheel Springing (Master de Luxe) against
any other suspension system.
EXTRA VALUE of the costly “Pullman Ride” (on
Standard models) against old-fashioned leaf springing
systems. You can’t get real riding comfort with
out-of-date springs.
EXTRA VALUE of Perfected Hydraulic Brakes
against ordinary Hydraulics.
EXTRA VALUE of Vacuum - assisted Gearshift
(Master de Luxe) against ordinary manual gearshift
lever in floor.
EXTRA VALUE of Chevrolet’s genuine Synchro-
mesh gears, permitting non-clashing changes at all
speeds.
EXTRA VALUE of Diaphragm Spring Tiptoe-matic
Clutch against old-fashioned 6-spring type.
EXTRA VALUE of Stabilized Front End, a feature
which no other competitor offers.
EXTRA VALUE of such Features as No-draught
Ventilation, flat front and rear floors, and Ride Stabi-
lizer. Some competitors do not give you any of these.
See your nearest Chevrolet Dealer and get the facts
about these features you’ll find that in giving you
such features and many others at its low cost, Chevrolet
offers at least £5O extra value!
OPEN BODY AA4 A CLOSED BODY .0000
MODELS FROM Idm MODELS FROM cbUOZ
Easy Terms Available Under Confidential G.M.A.C. Plan.
/^CHEVROLET
A GENERAL MOTORS VALUE.
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia. GENERAL MOTOR-HOLDEN’S LTD. C 684
annually has an infinitely more favor-
able effect on the credit base than an
internal loan of that sum, and it doesn’t
carry the same sting in its tail as an
external loan.
* * * *
In B. 5/7/’39, touching on world trade
and Australia, it was pointed out that
economic conditions in France were im-
proving considerably and that capital
was flowing back into the country. . On
July 6 Paul Reynaud, Minister for
Finance, stated that the gold repatriated
in June was more than double that for
May. The Budget has been balanced for
the first time in 10 years.
* * * #
Farmer and Co., Sydney, announced
last week that it proposes to repay its
£500,000 of 5 p.c. (originally 6 p.c.) de-
bentures on July 31. Last balance day
the co. had £123,542 in liquid assets
(apart from stocks and book debts), and
it owed outsiders, apart from debenture-
holders, £290,369, the figure including
provision for contingencies. The an-
nouncement was published on Thursday,
and the same day the ord. scrip fell by
Is., to 28s.
* # * *
Broken Hill South’s production of lead
concentrates for the year to June 30 was
approximately 55,040 tons (52,900 tons
in 1937-38) and 41,900 tons of zinc con-
centrates (41,070 tons). Average London
price of lead during 1938-39 was £l4
19s. sd. (down £2 10s. Id.), and spelter
£l4 os. 2d. (down £2 13s. 4d.).
# Sit * *
Whereas the world-wide Shell Oil
organisation showed profits in its last
term very little changed from those of the
preceding term, Anglo-Iranian’s earnings
are down about 15 p.c., and the div. has
fallen from 25 p.c. to 20 p.c. Shell has
the much more widely-spread business of
the two, which apparently helps to
stabilise earnings.
*■* * *
The London sharemarket reached its
lowest recent point on Monday, July 3.
New York had taken a turn for the
better on Saturday, July 1. During,
most of last week quotations showed
steadiness overseas, but not much actual
recovery was made. All metals moved
up after the Danzig scare had passed,
though the “situation” continued to be
played up in the newspapers. Knight
W. R. Carpenter, of the Islands trading
co., on his return to Sydney suggested
that a canal from the Vistula to the
Baltic through the Polish Corridor
would make the transfer of Danzig to
Germany no serious loss to Poland.
The cost, he believed, would be less than
that of one day’s war. S’Walter, who
runs ships, aeroplanes, etc., round various
parts of the world himself, sees cheap
water transport for Poland as one of the
real problems in the Danzig affair. It
is a pity diplomats can’t talk in
similar terms. Beating of the “national
pride” drum can cover up a multitude of
errors and dubious ambitions.
Australian ’Changes improved in tone
after the middle of last week. But there
were still few buyers or sellers about.
Friday was the best day of the week.
Broken Hill Prop, fully-paids recovered
to 61s. 9d., and Australian Consolidated
Industries ords. came up to above 345.
again, after slumping to 325. 6d. following
announcement that a Tariff Board in-
vestigation was to take place. The ord.
shares in Mauri Bros, and Thomson,
dealers in vinegar, malt, corks, shop
equipment, etc., and investors in Crown
bottle-seal and other concerns, were
comparatively active, 735. 6d. and 725. 6d.
being paid frequently; some of the
scrip was for Maoriland delivery. The
stock, an old favorite of this'page, is
still near the highest price ever recorded
for it. Gordon and Gotch ords., though
down a couple of shillings' recently, also
keep near their top.price in spite of
market “war scares.”
United Provisions ords. sold at
7s. 10d., after having recovered to
Bs. 3d. George Farmer ords. have been
around 16s. for some time, the price
having nearly trebled in 14 months. Re-
turn of the pref. capital had something
to do with the recovery. A div. is due
from George Farmer in September, and
from United Provisions in October.
* * * *
With gold steady at an average of
£7 Bs. 6d. sterling an ounce fine for
over seven months, the price of lead has
fluctuated between monthly averages of
£l5 2s. and £l4 6s. during that period,
spelter’s averages being a “high” of £l4
and a “low” of £l3 Bs. In fact, since the
Exchange Equalisation Fund in Britain
was given the task of steadying the fluc-
tuations in sterling last December, all
base metals except tin have been re-
markably stable, though comparatively
low in price. The following table gives
average quotes for all base metals and
gold on the London Metal Exchange over
the 13 months to June 30:
Electro.
Copper, Lead, Spelter, Tin, Gold,
t lon. Ton. Ton. Ton. Fine Oz
T U i nC •• £^ o B £l4 '° £l2 - 9 £177.6 140 s. 9d.
July .. 44.8 14.9 14.1 192.7 141 s 3d
W " in'l 13 ' 5 19 3,1 1425. 6d!
Sept. .. 47.6 15.2 14.0 193.9 1445. 6d.
Oct. .. 51.7 16.2 15.1 207.1 1455. 9d.
Nov. .. 51.5 16.1 14.4 214.0 147 s 7d
W '• Si !H 13J 214 - 6 1485.' 10d.’
i t “ I 8 14 ’ 5 13 - 7 215.6 148 s. lid.
L eb ‘ •• Vol 14 ‘ 3 13 - 5 214.0 148 s. 4d.
Mar. .. 48.6 14.7 13.7 215.5 148 s 5d
M Pf ' "So i 1 ! -3 13 ’ 4 218 ' 5 148 - 6d -
May .. 47.9 14.5 13.7 225.7 148 s. 6d.
3u . ne _ • • 47.9 14.6 14.0 227.6 148 s. sd.
July 7.. 49.2 14.9 14.2 230.0 148 s. 6d.
Last month none of the metals tabulated
there was as low as twelve months earlier.
In May and June, 1938, most metals had
sunk to the lowest quotations since the
depression. Tin went to an average of
£162 16s. Bd. in May, 1938, with spelter
down to £l2 13s. Bd. The others hit
bottom in June, as shown in the table.
Tin, subject to control by the Buffer
Pool, rose to a new high level of £230
a ton last week. This is the price aimed
at by the scheme, and at anything above
this figure the pool is supposed to sell
stocks in order to steady the market. The
metal has always been a temperamental
one, and last week forward quotations
were £6 a ton lower than spot. Whatever
the cause—whether the pool is selling
forward heavily while starving the
market of current supplies, or whether
actual increased production is looked for
following the technical “raising” of the
quota—the lower price for forward deli-
very anticipates a lower price for the
metal within a month or two. The visible
position of tin as shown by latest statistics
wouldn’t suggest the same thing, however:
April, May, June,
~ . Tons. Tons. Tons.
World visible supplies.. 25,574 23,813 22,774
Straits’ carryover .. 5,042* 4,772 1,208
Supplies received .. 9,660 8,356 7,630
Deliveries .. .. 9,400 10,117 8,669
There was a drop of nearly 3000 tons in
visible stocks during the two months to
June 30. It would be interesting to know.
all the same, just what the stock position
of the pool is. It has done a reasonably
good job for producers in controlled
countries so far, and Australian miners,
not controlled, have been in an excep-
tionally happy position for several
months.
Lead and spelter average prices over 12
months are here compared with quota-
tions for Electro. Zinc ords. and North
Broken Hill shares:
Electro. North
Lead, Spelter, Zinc Ord. B.H.
Ton. Ton. High. Low. High. Low.
July ..£14.9 £14.1 45/6 41/9 51/9 46/9
Aug. .. 14.8 13.5 44/- 42/6 48/9 43/6
Sept. .. 15.2 14.0 42/3 41/6 46/3 39/6
Oct. .. 16.2 15.1 45/9 41/- 51/9 44/3
Nov. .. 16.1 14.4 47/6 45/- 52/6 46/9
Dec. .. 15.1 13.7 45/9 44/9 48/9 46/9
Jan. .. 14.5 13.7 46/6 41/- 49/9 41/3
Feb. .. 14.3 13.5 46/3 45/3 46/- 43/9
Mar. .. 14.7 13.7 47/6 44/- 46/6 42/
Apr. .. 14.3 13.4 45/- 43/3 43/6 41/3
May .. 14.5 13.7 49/6 44/3 48/3 42/3
June .. 14.6 14.0 48/6 46/- 47/3 42/6
The most noticeable feature of the com-
parison is that Electro. Zinc shares have
risen in relation to metal prices, while
North scrip has fallen. In July, 1938,
lead and spelter were both slightly
higher than they were last month, when
Electro. Zinc ords. averaged about 475.
(445., June, ’3B) and North scrip about
445. (485., June, ’3B).
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Remarkable weakness continued to be a
feature of O. Gilpin scrip. The first prefs.
fell from 225. to 215., closing at 21s. seller,
20s. buyer, and yielding 6.7 p.c. The second
prefs. changed hands at 165., returning 7.5 p.c.
In March the firsts were at 255. 6d. and the
seconds at 20s. 3d.
Buyers offered 13s. for Austral Silk and
Cotton shares, no sellers, after sales at 13s. 6d.
If the merger with Bradford Cotton comes off
they should be worth more than the present
market price.
Yarra Falls shares were weak again at 345.
9d., yielding 5.8, p.c. A final div. is due in
October.
Brewery stocks of the Carlton and
United family firmed a few pence all round,
Carlton being quoted at 68s.
H. B. Dickie ords. kept near the high level
of 28s. 6d. There was little inquiry for
Davies, Coop. .


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
War and Challenge in China.
[Aspects of the situation in China to-day, with
more comment on the Japanese challenge to Britain
at Tientsin. The first item (extracts from an article by
London “Times” Shanghai correspondent) deals with
the general state of suffering of the Chinese —a sadly
different picture from that persistently presented in cable
columns, where propaganda stories of advancing and
conquering Chinese armies have been a recurrent feature,
invariably refuted by events.]
“A Major Tragedy of History”
The tide of invasion has spread over 12 —and these
the most densely populated —of the historic 18 prov-
inces. Japanese troops are operating in the very heart
of China. There is no “front,” no well-defined line.
Hostilities, while gradually spreading westward, have
continued in each of the invaded provinces. The
armies have marched to and fro across the land,
driving before them a host of refugees and leaving in
their wake suffering and destruction.
The burden has fallen most heavily on two
sections of the population—the farmers and the small
tradesmen. The farmers have been victimised by the
Japanese, the guerrillas and the bandits alike.
Even harder hit have been the small tradesmen,
the artisans, the coolies —in a word, the inhabitants
of the towns. The vast migrations which have moved
westwards (among the largest in history) have been
composed chiefly of these poorer townspeople fleeing
before the threat of destruction.
Missionaries estimate that the most serious single
factor causing distress in China to-day is the recru-
descence of banditry. The number of the semi-pro-
fessional bandits is swollen by peasants who have been
driven to banditry by poverty and desperation. In
addition to the bandits there are the Japanese and
the guerrillas, both living on the country, both on
occasion pillaging and looting without mercy.
Other results of the war have been floods and
epidemics. The Chinese authorities have not been
able to maintain the dykes and earthworks which in
Northern China keep the rivers to their courses, and
in places the dykes have been deliberately breached to
stem the Japanese invasion. The China International
Famine Relief Commission estimates that 12,000
square miles will be eventually flooded and that
12,000,000 people will be forced to leave their homes.
Epidemics have resulted naturally from the large-
scale movements of troops and refugees, from the over-
crowding of towns and from the breakdown of medi-
cal services following the rupture of communications.
Cholera has appeared among the refugees in Hong
Kong and Shanghai; malignant malaria has ravaged
Central and Southern China ; and wherever the armies
have marched they have spread syphilis and other
venereal diseases.
Much of the destruction in China has been
wrought by the Chinese themselves in their desire to
leave nothing for the invader.
“It’s Face That Counts”
(From an article by Lawrence Impey, the„ Peking
correspondent of London “Daily Mail..”)
One of the most important aspects of the whole
situation in China is the question of “face.” Make
no mistake, in the East “face” is the be-all and end-all
of existence. One’s “ancestors” and “face.” Those
are the two things that really matter in China.
The Japanese have found the war long-drawn-out
and expensive; their casualty list has been much
greater than they anticipated ; their economic returns
have been almost nil. They would be glad to find a
way out —some approach to a settlement.
But they cannot, because they, too, are Orientals,
and to accept an offer from the Chinese to get out of
the fight now would mean the loss of too much “face.”
Throughout China during the past twelve months
foreigners have been losing “face” at the hands of the
Japanese. Foreign women have been insulted, foreign
men have been killed, foreign warships have been
fired on and sunk, a foreign ambassador has been
wounded, a military attache has been arrested, foreign
businessmen have been kidnapped.
The loss of “face” by Europeans and particularly
the British has been enormous, and bear in mind it
is noted with the closest attention throughout the
Orient.
The repercussions will be felt in Malaya, in India,
in Egypt, even in Africa. And the newspapers of the
Axis Powers have lost no time in pointing the moral.
They seize the opportunity of announcing to the world
that the British Empire is tottering to its fall.
“Concessions” and “Settlements”
(E. M. Gull, in London “Times.’’)
“Concessions” are administratively distinct from
“Settlements.” Concessions are areas leased by the
Chinese Government to foreign Powers, who in turn
lease the land in suitable lots for long terms to their
subjects ; while Settlements are areas which were set
apart by the Chinese Government for foreign residents,
who acquire land direct from its Chinese owners.
There are four Concessions at Tientsin: the
British and Japanese, with the French Concession
between them, on the south-west side of the Hai River,
and an Italian Concession, the smallest, on the other
side of the river. There used also to be Russian,
German, Austrian and Belgian Concessions, but as
the result of the last European War and of voluntary
relinquishment since then these were converted into
“Special Districts” and have been under predominantly
Chinese administration.
Japan’s Challenge to Britain
(Further comment by E. M. Gull.)
Japan’s pretence of anxiety to get rid of the
Treaty-port system —which to the extent that it is
bound up with extraterritoriality is admittedly disliked
by the Chinese —can deceive nobody, least of all the
Chinese, who are perfectly aware of the willingness
of the democratic Powers to make suitable readjust-
ments, and of the nature of the controls which Japan
would substitute.
When we look at the whole situation from our
own point of view, as we have now been forced to
do by the blockade of our Concession at Tientsin, it
becomes tolerably clear that most of the things for
which we have worked in China for 100 years are
in jeopardy. War, of course, always jeopardises trade
and investments, but this struggle jeopardises the things
that condition their ultimate recovery—on the one
hand China’s capacity for self-development, and on
—“Le Populaire.” Paris.
“That Czech State is giving me a pain."
“I’ve still got Ethiopia on my stomach.”
“And they were supposed to be only hors d’ceuvres.”
the other our ability and that of the United States
and France to help her.
* * * * *
(“ Scrutator” in London “Sunday Times.’’)
The Japanese demands carry an interpretation
which we could not possibly reconcile either with our
honor or with our duty to our own people. “Co-opera-
tion in safeguarding peace and security” would mean
nothing less than that we should recognise the Japan-
ese conquest of China as an accomplished fact so
far as the Treaty ports are concerned, surrender the
rights, some of them not far from a century old,
and built up for the advantage not of ourselves alone
but of the whole world. It would mean political and
commercial abandonment of China to Japan, and with
that would go our prestige in the Middle and the
Near East too.
The suggestion has been made that we should re-
taliate by imposing an embargo on Japanese trade with
British ports ; in other words, sanctions. That policy
might be easier to execute than when we last tried
it because we should be in sole control of it, but its
cost would be considerable and its success doubtful,
and in any case the imposition of sanctions is wrong
unless we are also prepared to face the risk of war.
War with Japan would be a serious risk with
Europe in its present unsettled state, especially after
we have undertaken new obligations that may make
demands upon us that no one can limit in advance.
Let no one make the mistake of underestimating the
power of the Japanese navy and the strategic influence
that it might have in a great war.
No doubt our quarrel over our rights in the Con-
cessions is of a kind in which we should have allies.
Japan could not single out our rights alone for de-
struction ; America and other foreign countries would
know that their turn would come next. Yet nothing
is more likely than that for a time we might have to
face the risks alone: We cannot take it for granted
that American co-operation is assured, and probably
any assumption that it is is the surest way to delay it.
Even so, the risks, whatever they are, would have to
be met in preference to the extinction in favor of
Japan of our political and commercial rights in the
Far East.
* * * * *
(From London “Spectator.”)
It was an American Secretary of State, John Hay,
who formulated the doctrine of the Open Door in
China —a door which Japan is bent on closing—and
it was the Washington Conference in 1922 that gave
birth to the Nine-Power Treaty, which Japan has been
tearing to shreds for the last eight years. Japan there-
fore is suffering seriously from illusion if she counts
on American indifference to her lawlessness. But so
should we be if we counted on American intervention
before America is compelled by direct assault on her
interests to intervene. President Roosevelt and Mr.
Cordell Hull will come as far towards co-operation
with this country as public opinion will let them, and
public opinion is moving fast. But for the moment
we have to handle the problem ourselves as best we
Ci * n - ' ..it
Certain elements in the situation are clear. Jap-
anese forces on the spot are far superior to the
British, and if force on the spot were the only factor
involved Japan could impose her will. Fortunately
we have other weapons in our armory. Japan s eco-
nomic position is notoriously weak. The popular boy-
cott of her wares in the United States has hit hei
hard, and that movement is growing steadily m
strength. A ban on the importation of Japanese goods
into Great Britain and her colonies would result in a
rapid depreciation of the yen, a disaster which Japan
is intent above all things on avoiding.
The danger of such a step is that Japan might
suddenly find herself in difficulties so great that the
best way out of them would be open war ; and it
we found ourselves involved in war in Asia no one
can doubt that the opportunity would be seized by the
Axis Powers for new strokes in Europe.
In view of such possibilities as these the hesitation
of British Ministers to take more drastic steps is in-
telligible. But they cannot hesitate indefinitely. The
exultation of German and Italian propagandists at
our difficulties in China matters little, but the damage
to our prestige in India and other parts of Asia matters
much. If Japan is bent on extorting from “co-
operation in the establishment of the new order” in
other words, of Japanese domination in Asia she is
demanding something that can never be conceded. It
is the efforts of the new China, not the endeavors of
Japan to subjugate China, that have all our sym-
pathies.
It has long been realised that the day to reconsider
the whole institution of concessions and Treaty ports
and international settlements has fully come. China
is as entitled to be rid of them as Turkey and
Iran and Egypt were. But they can be abandoned
only to give China freedom, never to enable Japan
to tighten her grasp on China’s throat.
Another “Sudetenland” Problem.
(From a London “Daily Mail” article by Viscount■
Rothermere .)
As far back as 1928 I told the world through the
“Daily Mail” that the German Sudetenland problem,
if not settled, was sure to provoke a great crisis if
not actual war. So I am sure to-day that if the Hun-
garian Sudetenland problem is not settled European
statesmen in a year or two will be confronted with
the same emergency that they had to deal with at
Munich.
What I have described as the Sudetenland of
Hungary is all that large territory inside the Rumanian
frontiers which for over 1000 years belonged to Hun-
gary and is to-day inhabited by compact blocks of
Hungarians.
There are something over 3,000,000 Hungarians
in this area, although if you turn to Rumanian text-
books you will see the number given as not being
much more than half this figure now. These Hun-
garians were even worse treated than the Germans in
Czechoslovakia. But in this matter these textbooks
are almost fraudulent, because it has been the policy
of the Rumanian Government, ever since it un-
wisely and unjustly became the possessor of this ter-
ritory, to use every possible device to hoodwink the
outside world as to the actual number there now.
It has not stopped at representing vast numbers
of Hungarians as native-born Rumanians or -some
other race.
The Palestine Plan Should Work.
o Condensed from an article by Arthur Merton, London
“Daily Telegraph’s” special correspondent in Palestine.)
The pessimism with regard to the future of
Palestine, engendered by the Arab and Zionist pro-
tests which greeted the latest proposals, is not, in my
opinion, justified.
The opposition of the Arab States is not deep-
rooted. They realise that the Palestinians have
obtained as much as is good for them at present, and
that a period of apprenticeship in the art of govern-
ment is essential. They are as anxious as anyone to
see peace reign again in Palestine, and it will be
found that they will do nothing further to encourage
the Palestinians to obstruct the new regime.
An unknown factor is the extent to which the
Mufti can organise resistance ; but there is little doubt
that the majority of the Palestinian Arabs have had
enough of the struggle. They are feeling the pinch
badly. In many cases the men remain in the hills for
economic reasons or because they are wanted for
offences committed during the revolt. If a generous
amnesty were declared there would soon be a con-
siderable change for the better in the public security
situation, though raiding for food or money will
continue for many a long day yet.
As regards the Jewish position, the opposition
to the latest interpretation of the Balfour Declaration
is by no means as widespread as it is made to appear.
It should not be overlooked that not all Jews are
Zionists, and that many who are consider they have
had a very good deal and should be satisfied with what
they have obtained and what they are promised else-
where.
The pre-war colonists have never looked favor-
ably on the thousands of later immigrants who,
although co-religionists, have been so alien in tem-
perament and origin. Likewise, those who came in
during the early post-war days have viewed with
apprehension the steady inflow of serious competitors.
Many who arrived latterly have found it even harder
to earn a living in Palestine than in the country
whence they came, and there have been quite a
number of emigrants during the past few years.
A large number are, of course, enthusiastic tor
the cause and do not count the cost. There are also
those who benefit from the agitation for immigration
and those who are directly interested in its continua-
tion But there has been such widespread suffering


during the past three and a half years that the new
policy will come to Jew as to Arab as a welcome relief
from a terrible nightmare which has enveloped them
since April, 1926.
There is indeed no reason why the two should
not live in perfect harmony in the Holy Land as they
did in medieval times. The Jewish elements settled
there before the war got on perfectly well with their
Arab neighbors. Indeed, as I found when I visited
them in 1918, they enjoyed much respect and influ-
ence by reason of their friendliness, their devotion to
their religion, and their superior education and know-
ledge of agricultural methods. This relationship,
which in spite of the Arab-Jew controversy the pre-
war generation still enjoys, the post-war immigrants
have never acquired owing to their exclusiveness and
their combativeness.
In the long run the determining factor will be
whether the British Government stands firm and fairly
by its policy and maintains adequate public-security
forces in the country. If it does there will, as time
goes on, be a gradual landslide towards the Govern-
ment not only from the Arab but also from the Jewish
side.
Spain and the Rival Groups.
(Condensed from an article by Robert Sencourt in the
‘‘Fortnightly.’")
What are to be the relations between General
Franco and the Western Powers? Here is a factor of
vital importance in the whole strategic tension of
Europe. Franco’s case must now be carefully con-
sidered even by those who had no original sympathy
with it. If the weight of Spain were thrown with that
of the Central Powers against France and England,
it might turn the scale.
Spain and Franco are now one. Franco is bound
to the Central Powers by gratitude and honor, because
they supported him, not so much with men as with
aeroplanes and artillery. He believes in their corpora-
tive philosophy ; he repudiates Parliamentary govern-
ment and the theories of democracy.
So much for one side of the picture. The other
side is less known ; but it too weighs.
Franco could not have won the war without
petrol: that petrol came from America on a credit
given by Standard Oil. He was also dependent on the
£20,000,000 which in the years of war he obtained
from Great Britain for the balance of trade in his
favor. Thirdly, he has envisaged a monarchy in regard
to which England has great influence. Fourthly, his
country is war-weary and exhausted, he is hard put to
it to feed his starving areas. His transport both on
the road and railway is on the verge of breakdown.
He has no means to buy supplies of raw materials to
start his industries. He still needs petrol. He still needs
his surplus of trade with England: for England alone
takes his marmalade, his sherry, his tomatoes to the
value of millions of pounds.
But all those considerations are subsidiary to
one point: Franco has an immense coastline —and
practically no navy. His coastline comprises hundreds
of miles in the Mediterranean ; an important distance
in the Atlantic between Gibraltar and Portugal; an-
other great stretch from the northern frontier of Por-
tugal to the Pyrenees. He cannot entrust the defence
of those ports to either the German or the Italian navy
against the French and British navies. He would
therefore be virtually powerless against the Western
Powers and could not engage them in war —unless he
were mad. All we know of Franco shows him to have
been a man of exceptionally balanced judgment, a
man of deliberation, a man who measures his ends by
his means. The idea of him engaging against Britain
therefore is unthinkable and absurd.
But are his people friendly? The Spaniard cer-
tainly feels a grudge against England for non-inter-
vention and the attitude of newspapers. Spaniards are
now again more suspicious because of the conversa-
tions with the Russians, whom they hold to be prin-
cipally responsible for their woes. Nor have they for-
gotten how much international intervention came
through France, supported sometimes by French
weapons and munitions. On the other hand, France
is their nearest neighbor, and French trade is also
a necessity.
The position then taken by Spain with regard to
the rival European groups becomes this. War is un-
thinkable. The trade which is necessary is driving
her towards France and England ; and, though grati-
tude, honor and ideals incline her towards the Central
Powers as Governments, that does not mean she enter-
tains feelings of revenge or hatred for the people of
France or England. On the contrary, she is well aware
that in both she had many partisans and distinguished
supporters.
Therefore, we have every reason to go forward
in placing Spain in a solid position, solid, that is, not
only in being at peace with herself, but solid in her
normal relations of cordial intercourse with France
and England. She has, it is true, abandoned Parlia-
mentary government, but so have Greece, Turkey,
Bulgaria, Rumania, Yugoslavia, Hungary and, not
least important, Portugal. If it does not render them
obnoxious to us, why should there be any difficulty
about Spain? The Axis does not and cannot exercise
a military control over her: and where it is a ques-
tion of sympathy we must set patiently and practically
to work.
The Spaniards assess deeds. They began to be
cordial to our naval officers only when we rescued
their men from the sunken cruiser Baleares: they have
aheady responded to the gifts of food and transport
which they owe to the Foreign Office. They will, no
doubt, appreciate in time the efforts of the Red Cross
with the refugees. They will appreciate the capacity
of Britain and France to absorb the products of their
mines; and meanwhile the plain Britisher, as he
begins the day on marmalade, rounds it out on sherry,
and eats a spring tomato, may add to his relish of
them by realising that he is taking part in an inter-
national act without which Franco could never have
carried on, and which still holds him fast to that cause
of peace for which we need advisedly to work. The
way to win Spain for our friendship is to trust her.
Soviet Trial “Confessions.”
[ln the latest of his “Saturday Evening Post” articles
(here condensed), General W. G. Krivitsky, the one
leading Red Army officer to escape the 1937 “purges,”
explains the mystery of the “confessions” made at Soviet
trials. The article, like the three preceding it, is very
long, this digest being restricted to General Krivitsky’s
general statement in explanation of the “confessions.”
Those who wish to read his detailed accounts of indi-
vidual torture scenes will find the original article in
the “Post” of June 17.]
No one in the inner Soviet circle, since the advent
of Stalin, has regarded a show trial, with its dramatic
confessions, as anything but a political device having
no relationship whatsoever to the administration of
justice. Whenever the Bolshevik
political machine faced a crisis, it
offered the people a batch of scape-
goats at such a show trial. These
trials had no more to do with jus-
tice than with mercy.
Stalin knew how to raise the
bogey of treason by releasing a
series of confessions from self-
styled “spies” and “enemies of the
people.” Stalin knew how to pro-
cure the desired confessions.
How were the confessions ob-
tained? Nothing has so tantalised
the Western mind as this question.
A bewildered world watched the
builders of the Soviet Government
flagellate themselves for crimes
which they never could have com-
mitted, and which have been proved
to be fantastic lies. Ever since, the
riddle of the confessions has
puzzled the Western world. But
the confessions never presented a
riddle to those of us who had been
on the inside of the Stalin machine.
In May, 1937, at the crest of
the great purge, I had occasion to
talk with one of the examining
prosecutors of the Ogpu, the young
Kedrov, then engaged in getting
confessions.
“You don’t know,” Kedrov insisted, “what can be
made of a human being when you have him completely
in the palm of your hand. We’ve had dealings here
with all kinds, even with the most dauntless of men.
Nevertheless, we broke them down and made what we
wanted out of them!”
Despite the monstrous forms of pressure exerted
by the Ogpu on Stalin’s political opponents, the marvel
of it all is that so few did confess. For every one of
the 54 prisoners who figured in the three “treason
trials” there were at least one hundred who were shot
without confessing.
Altogether, Stalin executed six batches of major
Bolshevik leaders. Only three of these batches could
be hammered into self-accusing exhibitors.
Nobody can read the reports of the show trials
intelligently who does not understand that they were
regarded by all the participants—victims, Judges and
prosecutor alike—not as efforts to determine any-
body’s guilt or innocence but as instruments of poli-
tical struggle. All Bolsheviks live by the principle
that the end justifies the means. Such an end as they
have in view justifies any means that may prove neces-
sary to achieve it. They do not regard false state-
ments made in a political struggle as lies but as tactical
manoeuvres. This belief—this habitual attitude of
mind —was shared by all those in the courtroom. It
was shared by all of us outside the courtroom who
belonged in any degree to the inner circles of the party.
Once this attitude of mind is understood, it is
possible even for those who have no sympathy with
such an attitude, or such a moral philosophy, to solve
the central problem of the show trials —the problem:
Why did the victims confess?
Many of the “confessors” were Old Guard leaders
already so crushed they seemed shadows of their
former selves. They no longer had the stamina to
withstand the pressure of the Ogpu mill of physical
and mental torture. The third degree actually became
known as the “conveyor system” of examination of
prisoners. This system put the victim through a chain
of examiners ranging from coarse novices to skilled
craftsmen in the art of confessions.
A second element which entered into the produc-
tion of the confessions was furnished by Stalin’s secret
Cabinet. Here were gathered reports from his private
espionage service covering the political and domestic
doings of all the leading figures over a period of many
years. This Cabinet became an arsenal of black-
mailing evidence against all potential opponents of
Stalin’s rule.
A third element in the staging of the show trials
was of the conventional frame-up variety. Agents pro-
vocateurs, equipped with ready-made confessions of
alleged conspiracies, were introduced into each cast
for the sordid job of implicating their more conspicu-
ous fellow-actors. These played the parts of incrimi-
nating “witnesses” and “accomplices,” making them
realise that any attempt to defend themselves would be
hopeless.
The fourth, but by no means the least important,
element in the production of the confessions came
from deals negotiated between Stalin and certain of
his pivotal prisoners. It may seem surprising to the
Western mind that there should be barters in human
lives between a lord high executioner and his trapped
victims. We of the inner Bolshevik circle always took
such negotiations as a matter of course ; certain of the
family and friends and even the followers of the
victim would be spared, provided they would implicate
the keymen and make possible a general clean-up.
Ihe method of torture, the method of frame-up
by means of planted false witnesses, and the method
of negotiations between the Kremlin and the victims
were employed at the same time to get quick results.
1 can speak of the physical torture only in so far
as I learned of it first hand. I knew one prisoner who
was kept standing during his examinations, with
various interruptions, for a total of 55 hours under
glaring and blinding lights. This was, perhaps, the
commonest form of the third degree.
The cell in which some 140 prisoners would be
herded was itself a torture chamber. It had two tiers
of boards, one above the other, on which the prisoners
lay or slept. The space was so overcrowded that the
men could not stretch out; they all had to sleep on
their sides with their legs doubled up, one body close
to the other. There was no room in the cell for
walking.
When the standing punishment failed to break
down the marked victim, the case would be trans-
“Kladderadatsch,” Berlin.
A GERMAN VIEW OF THE SOVIET PURGES.
Lord Halifax (welcoming Maiski back to London ): “Lord, Maiski,
is it really you, or is it only your ghost ?”
ferred to a more adroit examiner. Here there was no
toying with loaded guns, no insults, no lights, no
physical pressure. Quite the opposite. Everything
would be done to make the prisoner feel that the first
stage had all been a mistake, an unfortunate experi-
ence. An atmosphere of ease and informality would
be introduced to induce the prisoner to confess.
On the eve of the Kamenev-Zinoviev case, Stalin
had a Government decree enacted which restored the
power of pardon and commutation to the President of
the Soviet Union. This decree was designed to assure
the 16 men who were about to confess in public that
clemency awaited them.
In the early hours of the morning of August 24,
1936, the 16 men were sentenced to be shot. They
immediately appealed for clemency. The evening of
that same day the Soviet Government announced that
it “has rejected the appeal for mercy of those con-
demned” and that “the verdict has been executed.”
In the second show trial, that of the Radek-
Piatakov-Sokolnikov case, which followed shortly
after the first, Stalin acted so as to make sure of more
confessions for future trials. He had four of the 17
men accused in this group spared by commutation of
sentences. Two of these were leading figures, Radek
and Sokolnikov. The other two were obscure agents
of the Ogpu, planted as “witnesses,” for the purpose
of framing the others.
The last “treason trial” to date, the Bukharin-
Rykov-Yagoda case, was staged in March, 1938, and
comprised 21 men. It took a year to wrest confes-
sions from them. Three of this batch received com-
mutations of their sentences. The self-vilification of
the confessors reached depths hitherto unplumbed.
The world was dumbfounded by the rivalry
between the confessors and the prosecution in assert-
ing their guilt. In each trial there was competition
among the defendants in self-vilification, in confessing
to more sins and crimes. Each successive trial in-
creased this seemingly insane form of self-debasement.
A great many people imagine that the victims were
trying, by the fantastic extremes to which they went,
to get themselves picked for that small group on which
Stalin would confer clemency. It may be that, as they
outdid the incomparable Prosecutor Vyshinsky in the
make-believe, some of them had that faint hope. But
I doubt it, because they all knew Stalin.
As an old member of the Bolshevik party, I prefer
to believe something else. I prefer to believe that,
Madrid Mourning.
The small item here given would not
occupy much space in cable columns. There
would be room for it and Madame Tabouis, too.
But this sort of item has never been favored in
cables touching on Spain:—
One tragic feature of life in Madrid to-day
is the great demand for mourning. Dyers are
busy dyeing clothes black. Few families are
without some relative to mourn, for in addition
to the casualties of the actual fighting about
• 80,000 persons in Madrid and its neighborhood
alone were shot for their political faith.
It appeared in London “Daily Telegraph.”


weakened and tortured into confessions though they
had been, they nevertheless hoped by the very fantastic
vehemence of their confessionals to make it obvious
that these were, like everything else in the show trials,
political acts. I believe they wanted to make known
to history that, up to the hour of their death, they
were still engaged in a political struggle, that they were
“confessing” to crimes against the party in a last
desperate effort to be of service to it by saving it from
Stalin eventually.
“No German Army in Italy.”
[Yet another Madame Tabouis furphy, and a few
others as well, nailed by Harry Greenwall in an article
(here condensed) written for London “Daily Mail
after “touring Italy to find the facts about the Germans
there.”]
I started off in search of the phantom German
army which is supposed to be in occupation in
Northern Italy. According to statements which have
appeared in the French press and in other newspapers,
the alleged German force in Italy was drafted as
follows: 200,000 officers and men passed through the
Brenner Pass and went into barracks in Treviso, Bel-
luna, Padua and Trieste. According to Mme.
Tabouis, there are 400 German aeroplanes in Trieste ;
she also stated that the Germans complained that the
barracks allotted to them in Italy were uncomfortable,
so the Italians had to build new ones.
So much for the legend ; now here are the facts.
I have visited every place I have mentioned ana
where the German troops are supposed to be, and I
can affirm that during the whole of my journey I saw
but one German officer in uniform, and he was walk-
ing with his wife in a Venetian street. I would ask
this question: Does anybody really believe that it is
possible to hide 200,000 troops in Northern Italy?
No, there are no German troops in Italy, but
there are several hundred German officers who have
come to study the various branches of the Italian
army and navy—and there are thousands of German
tourists.
The censorship in Italy is so strict that few people
have any real idea of what is happening in the out-
side world. I was amazed at the childish questions
l was asked ; it reminded me of Russia. Other things
apart from questions reminded me of Russia: the
fear of the Ovra, for instance ; Ovra is the Italian
opposite number of the dreaded Russian Ogpu ano
the German Gestapo. One of the things about the
alliance with Germany which the Italians are taking
badly is the visit to Italy of several members of the
German Gestapo. They wonder what it portends.
Italians say in effect: “Oh well, you see, we had
to get a friend somewhere; ever since Eden put
Europe against us we needed a friend.” Others are
less optimistic. I started up the Brenner Pass from
Verona. Here an ex-serviceman said: “The alliance
is nonsense ; it can’t possibly last; we don’t get on
too well with the Germans and we don’t think they
like us.”
I went on up the Pass to the German frontier,
looking for the phantom army. Not a German soldiei
had passed that way since those dread days when the
Italian front cracked. Material? Oh, yes, plenty ol
war material has come through the Pass. The Ger-
mans gave their new ally half of the booty they took
from Czechoslovakia: tanks, guns and machine-guns ;
war material poured through the Pass.
Take a look at Hitler’s ambassadors to Italy:
not men in arms but elderly men and women, dowdily
dressed ; tourists who come from Germany with hotel
coupons and about 20 lire a day for spending money,
which does not go very far in modern Italy, where
the cost of living is rising and salaries are falling. The
hotelkeepers whisper to me they are not so pleased
with this German invasion, because they have to wait
several months before the hotel coupons are paid
through the Clearing House system.
The Italians, and I am speaking of the north only,
feel that they are replacing the late Austro-Hungarian
Empire as the “brilliant second” of Germany.
Everywhere there are complaints of lack of trade,
and there are no tourists except the Germans ; the
English and Americans seem to be holding off. I feel
that we should be really sorry for the Italian people.
Everywhere I have been I have remarked on the cor-
diality there is felt towards English people.
“You played us a dirty trick*with your sanctions,”
they say, “but we know the Englishman fights fair ;
if he wins or loses he is still your friend when the fight
is over.”
The Germans? I noted what I thought were too
many dark looks when you mention them.
Germany in Uniform.
(From a report by Loudon “Sunday Times’’ Berlin
correspondent.)
The War of the Gold and Silver Braid has broken
out in the highest circles in Berlin.
It was natural that in the impressive festivities
that Berlin is staging for foreign statesman, the great
officers of State should desire to appear in something
more impressive than their black or brown uniforms,
or regulation high hat and morning coat. Herr Hitler
commissioned the stage designer Benno von Arendt to
design uniforms for his diplomats —black with silver
trimmings.
The diplomats were quite pleased with this garb
until several men of the central office of Dr. Goebbels
stepped forth in uniforms far outshining those of
Herr von Ribbentrop’s staff. Dark blue, with broad
silver bands down the side of the trousers, gold-
braided shoulder straps and gold and silver aiguil-
lettes adorned their manly chests. The quality of the
cloth and the cut of the uniforms made the hearts of
every uniform-conscious man beat higher. But officials
of the Propaganda Ministry appearing in uniforms
that might be mistaken for those of higher ranking
diplomats displeased Herr von Ribbentrop ; he wants
these uniforms altered to make them look less like
those of his own staff.
The question of uniforms will prove to be very
complicated, for it is planned to provide all German
officials with official dress varying according to their
service and rank. Mayors are also to have uniforms.
Every branch of the public service will naturally
desire the best-looking apparel.
Most German officials belong to the military re-
serves, and all reserve officers have their outfits in
readiness at all times. Most of them are in the Nazi
party and belong to at least one of the numerous
uniformed bodies —Stormtroopers, Schutzstaffel, Labor
Front. Now the uniforms of Ministries or services
are being got ready, and soon few men will be left in
Germany without uniform. Most of them have three.
Usually uniforms mean extra expense, but in
Germany the Nazi party helps its poorer members to
buy them ; army and office uniforms are paid for
out of public funds. Army men and officials are
granted a special uniform allowance; if they buy
more costly outfits than the standard quality, they
bear the extra cost themselves. The Fuhrer sets the
THE MISSING TROPHIES.
example. Besides his traditional brown uniform he
now has a number of others; the newest is his gala
uniform for parties with a white coat and a silver-
and-gold belt
Sportsmen have uniforms designed specially for
their favorite pastime ; newspapermen and press photo-
eranhers have their own professional outfits, the boys
Ld girls sport their Hitler Youth uniforms. Truly
Germany is the uniformed nation par excellence.
at tV»#» Rrinlt-
Britain at me mm
Review*’ '
assumes that “Hitler still dreams of war,” and who
takes a coming war for granted. In a long survey he
deals with the general situation; c °^ er j|L/ v av °[£ -
SertfSS ZtL T £%y better 0 pr r ep“ y tta„ in
1914,” that “American opinion is as strongly, anti-
German as it was at the beginning of 1917, that
infinitely stronger than in the Imperialist days.” He
then goes on to the observations here given.]
The British ability to win in the end is not
doubted for a moment. Our resources are enormous ;
cur stamina could be almost infinite. Whereas the
German people have been on short commons for some
years the British Empire alone produces a quarter of
the world’s wheat—a large surplus over its own re-
quirements—and has already gathered large stocks of
war reserves. We have half the total head of cattle
in the world; more than a third of the sheep. We
produce almost half the world’s supplies of wool,
necessary in a hundred ways for war. Of rubber
nearly 60 pc of the world’s supplies is grown on
British territory, principally in Malaya ; and outside
the Empire the chief sources are the Dutch East Indies
and Brazil.
In minerals the Empire produces 80 p.c. of the
world’s supply of nickel (essential for munitions), 80
p c of tin a large surplus of manganese (again essen-
tiki for munitions), 56 p.c. of asbestos. Of iron-ore
we produce all that we need except for 5,000,000 tons
a year that comes from Norway and Sweden and
that ought to come from Spain (hence the German
activity in north-western Spain). All these are our
own resources, quite apart from the sales we are
rertain to get from America and the Southern
American Republics. . .
All this has to be remembered. But the aim is
surely not to win “in the end,” but to win in the
shortest possible time and with the shortest possible
loss of life on our side. Therefore, the task must be
to organise resources for immediate use to the
demands of war. Munition factories should be work-
ing day and night—as they would be working in any
case the moment that war broke out. Aeroplane fac-
tories should again be working without ceasing and
mfrchases £ supplies from abroad should be in-
creased. We should call up not one class of conscripts,
but five ; they could be drilled and organised even
though they may lack full equipment.
possiWy^have 6 ltaly°ancT'japan MWWE
S*C
ports and aerodromes as bases for attacks on the
hai‘done morelh™ M™ haSain’s toTnTtaly
over. It is hard to see what more can be done ; and
certainly no amount of telling will convince Italy o
what is in store for her if she herself now does no
realise that, with Germany, she can only lose a wai.
Germany defeated, she will naturally lose. Germany
victorious, she will become a mere vassal State.
Italy provides one baffling puzzle. Her leaders
talk war, and she is bound to the German leaders,
who are evidently out for war; but still Italian muni-
tion factories are not working full time and Italian
supplies of explosives are low —and are not being
replenished. These facts are hard to fit in with the
generally accepted scheme of a joint Germano-ltalian
campaign ; and they may explain why the Italian Gov-
ernment has tried to curb the Germans over Danzig
and why it encouraged the Pope to make his peace
appeal. Italy may be nine-tenths lost to us, but not
yet irrevocably. In strategy we must prepare for a
hostile Italy. In diplomacy we can still leave a dooi
open. .
To understand Spain it must be realised that con-
ditions there are so chaotic that foreign affairs have
little meaning for her leaders. They have enough to
do in feeding their millions of semi-starving people,
newly surrendered from the Republican side. Caretul
diplomacy may yet ensure Spanish neutrality.
Japan is a difficult problem. She has chosen a
high-handed course. She threatens British interests.
She lands soldiers on international settlements and dis-
regards all established rules. She
is out by every means to win her-
self an Empire, to be the Great
Britain of the East. But she is with-
standing the German pressure that
would have her join a military
alliance with the Third Reich and
Italy; and in this resistance she
should not be hindered by any act
of Great Britain. It is for Japan
to choose. If she decides to try
to occupy British possessions she
will bring against her the forces
of the British and Dutch Empires,
already in close co-operation with
each other, and the whole strength
of Soviet Russia’s army in the
Maritime Provinces. Combined re-
sistance, coming on top of the war
strain, would mean the end of
Japan. Or she can pursue what she
thinks to be her destiny and con-
tinue fighting China (whose armies
grow stronger) while respecting
Western interests.
The conclusion of the whole matter is this. If
Great Britain pursues the resolute policy begun in
recent weeks, and if she rearms more vigorously at
home, there is none whom she need fear.
The Balkans Remain the Balkans,
. „ , .
(From a London Doily Mad article by Emrys Jones.)
The Englishman thought the Italian in the dining-
car wasn’t a bad chap when he changed a pound for
him into Yugoslavian dinars, though he said he didn't
want to change iL He gave the Englishman 200 dinars
f ° r P oU " d '.“ d «"?
more pounds in a Zagreb bank and got 257 for the
pound.
That wasn’t robbery until he got to Belgrade and
was initiated into the mysteries of the Black Bourse
and received 300 dinars to the pound. After that
money changed its value all over the Balkans. Some-
times you received double the normal rate of ex-
change, sometimes a third more, sometimes more than
double.
The mystery remains how people do business in
these parts, and you can imagine it too if you can con-
ceive of receiving sometimes 40s. for your pound in,
say, Birmingham, and only 15s. in Cardiff. There’s
a lot of “panic money” in the Balkans. Plenty of
people, many Jews, are glad to let some of their sav-
ings go at a loss for money they can get out of the
country.
The money business is crazy, so is the secret
police and spy business. You can’t move in the
Balkans without thinking at times that you are an
extra in a film. For instance, the curious character
that swiftly entered our compartment between Zagreb
and Belgrade was surely somebody I had seen playing
the P art of a secret policeman in the old days of the
silent screen. He was a caricature, a complete exag-
geration of the part he was playing, with his villainous
small, twirled moustaches, his sinister slouch hat and
his suspicious look.
Anyway, he confiscated my travelling companion s
film because he had taken photographs of a few
peasant villages from the train. Also he took his
name and address from his passport. Or rather he
didn’t, for my friend’s surname now appears in some
secret policeman s notebook as the name of the place
he comes from, presumed to be somewhere near
London.
In all the cities of the Balkans people sidle up
to you in the big hotels and warn you about other
people who are supposed to be secret agents, and you
find odd little men about whose ears swell visibly with
the effort to hear what you are saying. Especially if
there happens to be some foreign delegation in
hotel you are staying at. . , „,, o c
Truly there s something to smile at in the Bal a .
There’s the big luxury hotel with no bells m lounge
and you have togoinsearch ° £ a ™ter w en you
want anything. They explain that me engineers io
got forget to wire the clever idea in the
hedrS by which |ou fe in galled ~h
late. , g & §mile in the Balkans, but behind
all the pantomime the game of politics is being played
pretty grimly just no .


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction
No. 1038 of 1939.
BETWEEN ELLEN SELLICK KELLY Peti-
tioner
And REGINALD KELLY Respondent.
TO REGINALD KELLY late of Newcastle.
r that the said ELL EN SEL-
LICK. KELLY has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and has applied for a dis-
solution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an appearance to the
said suit at the proper office of this Court on
or before the Twenty-sixth day of September
next and in the event of your not doing so
within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. Copy of the petition filed herein may
be had on application to the undersigned free
of charge.
DATED this 29th day of June, 1939
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, Assembly
Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Otway Falkiner was at Flemington on
Saturday and saw Giant Killer, a horse
that he bred, win the Grand National
Steeple. The gelding is held on lease
by Bill Burke, who has a partiality for
the progeny of David. It was through
Burke that J. P. Devine secured Santa
Casa, winner of the great crosscountry
event in 1936.
As a racehorse, David did no good in
Melbourne when trained by Jack Holt
for the late Norman Falkiner. He never
liked galloping the Melbourne way. But
he was a great horse on Sydney
courses, staying being his forte. After
being acquired by Otway Falkiner and
transferred to the Rosehill stable of Bill
Booth, he captured the Sydney Cup of
1923, crediting Otway—then the most
dashing of plungers—with a fortune in
bets.
IJavid is by Baverstock (Maltster-
Wakeful), sire of Sandhurst, winner of
the Grand National of 1929. Strange
that Wakeful, probably the greatest mare
of all time on the Australian turf and a
wonderful performer on the flat, should
appear so frequently in the pedigrees of
our jumpers.
Wakeful’s stud career did not quite
realise the expectations of C. L. Mac-
donald, her owner. To Wallace she
threw Blairgour, who was very fast, and
won the Oakleigh Plate and Futurity
Stakes, but could not stay. Another son,
Night Watch (by St. Alwyne), annexed
a Melbourne Cup. Night Watch was
difficult to train.
As in the case of the Newmarket Han-
dicap and Australian Cup, ante-post
speculation on the Grand Nationals is
now conducted on a double basis only.
Last year Bill Burke gave the Melbourne
Ring a hard knock by coupling Marau-
der with Ajax in the Newmarket. This
winter he pulled off another coup.
When weights for the Nationals ap-
peared the idea of Green Cape, winner
of the big steeple in 1938, being “slipped”
for the National Hurdle seemed fantastic,
and on early charts Green Cape-Giant
Killer figured at 1000 to 3. Stable com-
missioners secured these odds for many
thousands The fact of Green Cape and
Giant Killer winning their respective
events so easily is testimony to Burke’s
judgment and to his skill as a trainer.
For the National Steeple Giant Killer
was second favorite, along with Turf
Boy, at fives. First choice of the public
was Deckard (11 to 4).
Deckard crashed at the second fence
m the lane” opposite the stand, when
bowling along in front. This disaster
gave Giant Killer control, and from that
stage it really was no race.
Choice of Ronald Watts as rider for
Giant Killer was another triumph of
judgment for the trainer. Frank Dum-
mett is first jockey to the stable, with
Armsden availed of fairly often. But
Giant Killer didn’t go generously for
Dummett over fences, w'hereas the gelding
“schooled” splendidly with Watts up.
Conceding Giant Killer 171 b. over a
journey of three miles and a furlong,
Turf Boy did splendidly to finish second ;
but Fullarton, who rode M. T. Mc-
Grath’s candidate, knew that the num-
bers were up as soon as he turned for
home. The race occupied 6min. 15J-sec.
—record (6min. ssec.) stands to the credit
of Redditch.
Now that the tumult and shouting is
over it would appear that if things had
fallen out differently the Nationals might
have gone to horses that did not see
the post. Mustella, winner of the Ken-
sington Steeple on July 1, would have
been a formidable opponent of Giant
Killer, while the form of Cheery Jack
on Saturday suggests that, fit and well,
he might have taken the first leg of the
double.
Cheery Jack (threes) defeated Green
Cape (9 to 4, favorite) by half a head
in the Doutta Galla, but lost on a pro-
test for interference at the last two
obstacles. The stewards were right, as
Green Cape was palpably hampered.
However, Cheery Jack impressed by
hitting the front three furlongs from
home after being a long way out of his
ground.
Methuen, trained by Fullarton, carried
off the Trial Hurdle in easy style, at 4 to
1, with Hawkins up. Jolly Boy (9 to 4,
favorite) fell with Fullarton in the Foot-
scray Steeple, won by Bully Hayes at
tens. It was a day of mixed luck for Ful-
larton, as he had been second in the
National.
Though San Carlos (4 to 1, favorite)
finished last in the Two-year-old Mile,
the winner, Cape Sable (Portofino-Sable),
was well backed at fives. At the same
price was Inspector Scott, who did his
early racing in Sydney—with little suc-
cess. He finished out of a place.
The rising apprentice Gilmore piloted
Trowsdale to victory in the July Handi-
cap at 7 to 1 ; but Rivette, finishing wide
out, was unlucky to lose. Lynch Law
(33 to 1) was third. It seems strange to
think that Lynch Law was the best two-
year-old of his year in Sydney and was
backed by thousands to beat Ajax in the
Caulfield Guineas. Trowsdale and
Rivette are by Ronsard, and five years
old both.
* * * *
Moderates—a lot of them—had their
turn at the Moonee Valley meeting on
Monday. Dewhurst completed a riding
double—he had won a division of the
Juvenile Handicap on Silent Night—by
bringing Queen Esther along for a com-
fortable win in the principal event, the
Society Handicap of 1| mile. Appren-
tice Gilmore tried for an all-the-way win
on Market Merry, winner of the Werri-
bee Handicap at his last outing, but Dew-
hurst never let him get far away, raced
Queen Esther up alongside turning for
home and went on to win easily.
An interesting winner on the day was
Contact —the English owner of that name
already fairly well known on the Aus-
tralian track. This Contact is one of
the string brought out to Australia to
race for the Bullock partnership. At the
Valley Contact won a division of the
Maiden Plate in good style.
* * jj*
Pooley Bridge, unplaced in the Grand
National with 11.13, has gone up to 12.4
in the Australian Hurdle with another
460yds. to travel. Green Cape, winner
of the National with 9.8 and of the
Doutta Galla Hurdle with 10.13, has
11.2. Foulsham is grumbling, and he has
some reason to grumble. Cheery Jack,
whose owner also grumbled when the
Doutta Galla Hurdle was taken away
from his horse, gets 10.7—21 b. more.
In the Australian Steeple, Pooley Bridge
has 12.9, Turf Boy 12.2, Giant Killer 11.7,
Deckard 11.6, Grantley 11.3, Cheery Jack
10.13 and Mustella 10.3. Turf Boy has
been raised 21b., Giant Killer 101 b. and
Deckard 81b., whereas Grantley comes
down 51b. Cheery Jack and Mustella are
a popular double.
3fC jj;
Sydney horses were in the ascendant
again at Doomben on Saturday. That
doesn t often happen in Brisbane, but it
happened on both days of the Doomben
meeting. In the Flying Handicap
Trimmer showed that his form in the
Doomben Newmarket had been all
wrong. Rushing away from such fast
beginners as Aurie’s Star and Thurles
aft JV he P air had got much the
better of the start, he wound up a winner
by four lengths from The Albatross-
second in the Doomben Newmarket St.
Constant being another neck away third.
, mmer was favorite at threes,
though fours could be got. St. Constant
came from sixes to 7 to 2, and the Alba-
tross and Bodley Head were at sixes,
Bahwing and Aurie’s Star at eights.
Trimmer ran the “six” in 1.13|. Why
didn’t he win the Doomben Newmarket?
The theory now is that he floundered
in heavy going, which was bad only
in parts. Micawber and The Albatross
were better served.
But Cooranga was the star on Satur-
day. Last of 20 in the Doomben
Cup for at least a mile, she was
in the ruck even when the straight
was entered by the leaders, and the owner
(Richards) and trainer (Lamond) almost
gave up hope. Not so Parsons, the
jockey. An opening came ; he flashed
the mare through, and in a few strides,
as it seemed, she had the race won just
when Lappin, on Hilarious, thought he
had it won. Teringa was third: • length,
half a length; 2.19| —rather wonderful
time, considering the state of the track.
Cooranga has 8.4 in the Metropolitan,
8.3 in the Caulfield Cup and 7.13 in the
Melbourne Cup. Not much for what
must now be accounted the best staying
mare in Australia, though she is liable
to get up to 101 b. more for each of the
two Cups. Of course she may go off, as
she did when trained for the Sydney Cup,
but in her Doomben form, with anything
up to 8.7, she must be considered for
any long-distance handicap in Australia.
Cooranga was naturally favorite—at
9 to 4. She would have been 6t04, at
most, in Sydney. Had she failed to get that
opening big money would have been
landed on Hilarious, who went out at
12 to 1; and her backers got better.
Teringa was 16 to 1.
The Sydney three-year-old The Squire
was a good fourth. Micawber got a
bad run and came in last, limping a bit.
* * * *
With few exceptions, the horses seen
at Moorefield on Saturday—there were
nine races—were a poor lot. Backers
had a good day, and the Ring must have
lost fully a fifth of the amount estimated
in a sympathetic Sunday press. The at-
tendance in the paddock was not up to
the average; however, there was a good
crowd in the Leger, and that’s the main
thing on proprietary courses.
Jim Pike, now a Randwick trainer,
started four horses for two wins and a
second. Jim’s winners, Hole in One and
Grey Derby, were ridden by his 15-year-
old apprentice Fell. The youngster
was born in Bourke, the son of a drover.
Three years ago he came to Sydney for
the first time with a Far West party. He
went to the Zoo and asked for permis-
sion to ride the African pony, and was
a very disappointed urchin when refused.
Later on Pike gave him his chance, and
now he looks a real rival to Lappin.
Grey Derby (6 to 1), who is owned
by a Tamworth sportsman, was in front
throughout in the Carlton Mile. Jocular
tried to beat him for the lead, but Jocu-
lar, who doesn’t seem to like Moorefield,
had had enough at the home turn. There
Dubonnet threw out a challenge, but the
roan horse streaked away, and won by
two lengths from Forward, Dubonnet
being three lengths back. Korimako, last
early, was fourth, a performance which
suggests an early success for the Don-
caster runner-up—perhaps on a bigger
track. Sidcup was backed. He was
hemmed in for a time, and when an
opening came at the home turn he was
not nippy enough to take it. He looked
well enough, and should do better pres-
ently, but he is a “temperamental”
customer.
Tickle is useful when she strikes form.
Seven to two for the Moorefield Handi-
cap, she won in good style from Mags-
man and Legion Bird. The favorite,
Morning Gift, lightened Tickle’s task by
trying to get into the Leger at the top
of the straight. She carried Legion Bird
with her, and Duncan shoved Tickle
through the gap. It looked curious, but
the stewards found nothing wrong.
Somebody backed Illawarra from 20
to 1 to sixes. One bet noted was £6OO
to £5O. Ridden by a Tasmanian, Stewart,
one of the oldest jockeys in Australia,
Illawarra was outclassed. He carried
only five pounds above the minimum in
a very so-so field. It would seem that
the owner would save money by ship-
ping him back to the Speck by the first
available boat.
Sologram (3 to 1), ridden by Jones, got
up in the last stride to beat Tarn in the
tirst division of the Encourage ; El Cama-
rilla was a poor third. Sologram is a
chestnut colt by Marconigram-Queen
Sol, and is raced and trained by Mazou-
dier, known in trotting circles. Carrying
ing a penalty for winning at Rosebery,
Rosspad (5 to 2) took the second divi-
sion after a close struggle with The Nine-
teenth, of whom Pike was more confi-
dent than he was of Grey Derby or Hole
in One. The Gamble, two lengths awav
was third.
Hole in One’s race was in the first
division of the Juvenile Handicap, and he
proved himself game at least. Badly
placed early, he came up the straight on
the extreme outside, beating Climax by
a head, with the pacemaker, Pruning, a
similar distance away. Fours was the
price. The second division proved a soft
snap for Lady Cerealia (6 to 4), a plain-
looking daughter of Pentheus-Real
Emblem. Aldabra was second and Sir
Regal third. Lady Cerealia was backed
on the strength of a trial against Pruning,
and McShortodds must have known all
about it.
Pastoralist Jack Leahy’s Tolerant was
the good thing of the day. He had 8.12
in the first division of the Flying Welter,
and was never off the bit to beat Kooba
and Beau Cheval. The bagmen refused
to lay better than evens. Rathlin, now
racing in the colors of Shaw and Clune
went out at twos in the second division’
lengths from El Camarilla
and Bull Chase. Shaw, who was a book-
maker, and Clune, once trainer of High
Cross, threw in for a big win on High
Cross in the 1935 Metrop. High Cross
came in first, but, on a protest for inter-
ference, the race was given to Oro
*** * '
The A.J.C. committee lost a very dis-
tinguished member when surgeon John
McKelvey died. Racing was his hobby,
and he was elected to the committee
about 18 months ago, but illness struck
him down when he was applying himself
to his duties with al l the enthusiasm and
energy he could spare from a great prac-
tice. At the 1938 Easter sales he bought
a yearling, Marengo, and as a two-year-
old Marengo won the first race he started
in. But the owner was denied the pleasure
of seeing his colors carried to victory
and of hearing the cheers of his multi-
tude of friends and admirers, though he
heard the race described by a radio re-
porter. He was in St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital at the time, and a doomed man
already.
* * * *
Another sudden death in Adelaide—
H. P. McLachlan, pastoralist and a com-
mitteeman of S.A. Jockey Club (the
former Postmaster-General is a brother).
H.P. was generally known as “Paratoo,”
Scotch fashion, after the name of his
station. He bred a good horse of that
name, too, and it sired Whitenose, which
won for him the Melbourne Cup of 1931
* * * *
Young Lappin is certainly a tiger for
graft and travel. Consider his latest
crowded week. Doomben (Brisbane),
July 1 ; six mounts, one win; distance
traversed, four miles seven furlongs, less
86 yards. Gosford (N.S.W.), July 4:
Four mounts, two wins, a second and a
third ; two miles seven furlongs. Rose-
bery (Sydney), July 6: five mounts, one
first and one second; four miles 6f fur-
longs. Doomben, July 8: three mounts,
two seconds; three miles two furlongs,
less 86 yards. And in between riding in
’planes, cars and races, the youth at-
tended to his track work ; and to that
no Sydney jockey is more attentive.
(Continued on page 32.)
FOR CAULFIELD.
Leamington Hurdle: Cheery
Jack ; next, Cape Race.
Godfrey Watson Steeple: Deck-
ard ; next, Turf Boy.
Murrumbeena Handicap: Gay
Knight; next, The Trump.
Malvina Welter: Footmark ; next,
Country Party.
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
Flying Handicap: Tolerant; next,
Rathlin.
Turf Club Handicap: Korimako ;
next, Sidcup.
Park Stakes: The Nineteenth;
next, Sigh.
Campsie Handicap: Buzzal;
next, Kurrawid.


DO YOU TEEL
ALL INI
7
1 L
OUR CRUISES
WILL BRING YOU ROUND
NEXT CRUISE LATE JULY
“ORAMA” to NOUMEA
By way of Barrier Reef; returns by way oi
Lord Howe and Norfolk Islands.
Sailing from: Fremantle, JULY 18
Adelaide, JULY 22; Melbourne, JULY 24
Sydney, JULY 28; Brisbane, JULY 31
LATE AUG. - “OTRANTO” ■ PAPUA
By way of Barrier Reef
Sailing from: Fremantle, AUG. 15
Adelaide, AUG. 19; Melbourne, AUG. 21
Sydney, AUG. 25; Brisbane, AUG. 28
First Saloon and Tourist ‘B’ Class.
ORIENT LINE
Orient Steam Navigation Co. Ltd., Incorporated in England
I
BESS
TYRES
STURDY and TOUGH
in the best
Australian Tradition
Olympic tyres give service . . . long,
trouble-free resistance to the hard
usage which motoring conditions im-
pose on a tyre. In fitting Olympic
tyres you give yourself a personal
advantage and do a National service,
for Olympic tyres are Australian
through and through.
Fit Olympics —what you save stays
in your own pocket, what you spend
stays in your own country.
Refit with Olympic
AUSTRALIA’S
REST TYRE
The Choice of 90% of
Australia’s Racing Drivers
OLYMPIC TYRE
DISTRIBUTORS
pty. ltd.
Cnr. Crown & Stanley Sts.
Sydney
Olympic Cyres
Under the Whip
V.R.C. stewards found themselves in a
position of great embarrassment on
Wednesday. Manrico, starting from No.
16 berth in the Lawn Handicap, used his
superior speed to cross to the inner rail
more than a furlong and a half from
home.
Manrico won with a lot in hand, but
through taking the running of other
horses he had compelled the jockey on
Kaipara (second) to shift ground. A pro-
test for breach of the rules was entered.
While overruling the objection, the
stewards imposed a fine of £2O on Harold
Badger, Manrico’s rider.
Riders in the last Newmarket Handicap
were collectively warned that they must
keep as near as possible to a straight
course under peril of severe punishment.
Recently Bow Tie drew a bad marble in
a race run over the “straight six,” and
the owner inquired whether his jockey
could move over to the inner rails if a
two lengths’ lead were established. “Posi-
tively no,” was the official reply. Bow
Tie’s owner immediately used the scratch-
ing pen.
Having these facts in memory many
Melbourne trainers expected the protest
against Manrico to be upheld. Now
they are accusing the stipes of being
illogical and asking “Why should Manrico
be allowed to do what was expressly
forbidden in the case of Bow Tie?”
Printed rules of racing permit a horse
to cross another if he has gained a lead
of two lengths. Supplementary regula-
tions for events up the “straight six” are
apparently to be punitive only in the case
of jockeys.
Manrico had not sported silk since his
Standish Handicap victory on New Year’s
Day. He was this Page’s next, Stoic
(ninth) being first choice. There are few
faster sprinters in Victoria than the son
of Manfred. He belongs to J. M. Niall,
a former member of the V.R.C. com-
mittee, and is trained by Jack Holt.
As much as 50 to 1 was offered against
Manrico. He started at the nominal
quote of 25 to 1, which could be obtained
with ease. Yet the tote div. for a win
worked out at less than fifteens. Holt’s
horses rarely are allowed to run loose by
small punters.
Bill Burke’s wizardry as a trainer of
jumpers largely contributed to Nevizes
being made an 11-to-8 favorite for the
Keilor Hurdle on Wednesday. Nevizes
did not jump one hurdle right, and
finished outside the money. According
to Frank Dummett he seemed to be
“glueing into the ground,”
Mac Devon scored by a narrow margin
from Stylist. He is trained by Don
Wraight, who had the Australian Hurdle
of 1927 won by a “street” on Arcadius
when that horse crashed at the last
obstacle. Wraight prepared Tongalla for
two successive victories in the Australian
Steeple, but the old gelding now is being
trained by his owner.
Badger made his position as leading
Victorian jockey for the season almost
impregnable by riding three winners on
Wednesday. After scoring on Manrico
he captured the Gooparle Welter on
Carra Rice and the Braybrook Handicap
on Panax.
Frank Bullock’s English importation,
Old Serpent, made all the running and
finished third in the Gooparle Welter. He
is a really handsome stallion, and seems
certain to be among the class performers
next spring. The mount on Old Serpent
was (entrusted to little Williamson, a
grand-nephew of Bullock’s wife. Frank
married a sister of Bob Lewis.
* * * *
Micawber’s foray at Brisbane draws at-
tention to Mildura’s chance in the Epsom,
for which the Manfred horse has 8.3 and
Micawber 8.0, plus a penalty. In the
Bronte Handicap on the third day of the
A.J.C. Easter meeting, run over the
Epsom distance, Mildura beat Micawber
fair and square, and clipped quarter of
a second off the Doncaster time.
Yet, going on his showing in the
Doncaster four days previously, he
could scarcely have been at his best;
if he was, he is capable of marvel-
lous improvement in a very short time.
Taken to Brisbane in May, Mildura won
the Moreton Handicap in most impres-
sive style, running ten furlongs in 2.3.
Mere sprinters don’t win Epsoms, so
that Brisbane performance was encourag-
ing to those who fancy Mildura. Sydney
bookmakers are taking no liberties with
him ; but then some of them wouldn’t
take liberties with a dromedary if a
dromedary were nominated for the
Epsom or one of the Cups.
* * =N *
The Sydney Government, which is
always promising something, promises
another campaign against s.p. betting.
Taking it at its word, the racing clubs
proposed to close course telegraph offices,
but they were forced to stay their hand
by the very Government that promises so
much. The law has been made stringent
enough, and if administration were what
it should be it should be easy to get con-
victions. Everyone knows bookmakers
who are operating in a big way and who
do most of their business by telephone ;
but only small fry are ever caught. Long
ago city shop bookies were rounded up,
but the Government of the day listened
to pleas that if they were convicted they
would lose their licenses. No such
regrettable incident has happened since,
and the illicit game goes on, and race-
course crowds are dwindling again, and
Layem and Toteodds laugh at laws,
licenses, regulations and taxgatherers.
M.Q. and Rafferty
China Fouls Harlem
Always bright and fast —a classy dis-
play of boxing garnished with dynamite
hitting —the Sydney Stadium encounter
of Kui Kong Young and Jackie Wilson
ended with a foul in the eighth round,
just when interest had been whipped up
to a peak.
In the seventh round China had seri-
ously troubled Harlem. Wilson, winded
by a woodener in the bingy, had been
belted back into the ropes on two sides
of the ring and each time subjected to
a battery of Kui’s exceptionally violent
hitting which had him shaken and
desperately defending himself. Because
of the excellence of Jackie’s defence, the
damage done in those assaults was more
apparent than real. No doubt it all
looked wonderful from the bleachers,
where the din suggested that Chiang Kai-
shek had moved in there with all his
forces. But to anyone about the ring-
side taking a detached view these assaults
must have counted just as much to
Jackie’s credit.
The little negro’s defence was splendid.
Apart from one punch which got through
and really shook him, he was taking the
Chinese battering mostly on his elbows
and forearms, and how little he really
suffered was demonstrated by the excep-
tional vigor of his eventual counter-
attack. In the last minute of that stirring
seventh he fought all over Kui this,
after apparently undergoing the very sort
of battering that such a tough lad as
Mickey Miller couldn’t take. Jackie, in
fact, emerged from the torrid assaults
refreshed, fighting so vigorously and box-
ing so prettily that he might perhaps have
won the round. Anyway, he must at
least have made it even.
That, in the circumstances, was a fine
achievement. It must have given those
who had made Kui an odds-on favorite
considerable uneasiness about the pocket.
Jackie was already well ahead on points.
His method of fighting the southpaw
was working out right. The plan was not
to let Kui get set, but to keep on taking
the fight to him. Jackie was anticipating
brilliantly; the fraction of a second
before Kui could make a move Jackie
would move inside the China Wall and
once there give him a lesson on infight-
ing. At Bst. 131 b., Jackie had lib. short
of half a stone advantage, and in the
early stages he used it for all it was
worth, making Kui feel every ounce of it
when he’d got to close quarters, but also
never letting up with fast, short, point-
scoring punches.
The first round, cleverly boxed all the
way, was near enough to even. The
second, in which Kui planted his power-
ful left rip to the body, was more strenu-
ously fought, a bit Kui’s way. Jackie
was close to winning in the third with
a peach of a left hook, fair to the point;
but Kui also landed heavily, and all
through very solid hitting freely punctu-
ated good boxing by both of them as
fine a round as anyone could wish to
witness; technically fairly even. Then
Jackie’s superior boxing started to tell.
With increasing margins in each, he won
the next three in a row. They were
beautiful rounds to look at. Except that
Kui’s face was getting flushed through the
persistent straight lefts that shot through
to it, neither of them was damaged,
and Kui’s rally in the seventh, with
Jackie’s strong recovery, indicated that
they both still had the condition to see
the distance out at the same bat.
This impression seemed to be belie
at the opening of the eighth. Kui began
with a heavy left rip to the body, bu
then started to hang on, so that he looKe
like becoming an easy victim to Jackie
two-handed attack below. Jackie seeme
now to have his measure, and had jusr
treated him to a boxing exhibition tna
made Kui look a novice when Kui s leii
rip landed heavily on Jackie’s cup-guara.
Jackie’s face contorted in agony, and Joe
Wallis had just time to instantly crown
him the winner on a foul before the lit
chap staggered towards the ropes ana
fell on his knees, his twisted face, seen
full-on at a foot range, a spectacle mar
present scribe doesn’t want repeated.
Summed up, the engagement was a
great credit to both parties.
near half a stone to one who is biLlea
as “the featherweight champion of the
world.” To make such a creditable show-
ing as he did was an extraordinarily
good performance for a bantamweight.
Jackie, for his part, looked like running
out a very easy winner. When the roul
occurred he was fast forging ahead, an
it looked as if the further it went the
easier his job would be.
A tiptop lot of prelims, made it a
great night of stoush. Particularly, the
ex-amateur boy with the ambitious moni-
ker of Jem Mace gave a splendid ex-
hibition of shifty boxing to outpoint New-
castrian Joe Gill in the main six-roundei.
The “No-foul Rule”
There was no question whatever that
the blow that felled Wilson was foul. It
was a terrific left rip as low as could be.
What was questioned was ref. Joe Wallis s
action in instantly crowning Wilson the
winner. Present stoush addict is heartily
on Mr. Wallis’s side ; but this “no-foul
rule” business badly needs clearing up.
Apparently the so-called “rule” was
supposed to be in operation. If so, and
if such a wretched “rule” could be
tolerated, the Young corner was justified
in complaining. The cup which guards
against low punching is supposed to be
completely effectual, though nobody who
had a close-up of Wilson could believe
it. Unless it’s absolutely effectual, a
boxer could be paralysed by a low punch


SAVE MONEY
W IT'S
■ THRIFTY
■ TO INSTALL
“ NEW
CHAMPIONS x
//CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring DEPENDABLE
ENGINE PERFORMANCE
Even the best spark plugs
wear out. Replace them with
new Champions at least once
a year. See what improvement
that makes in acceleration
and speed. In easier starting,
too, in good weather and bad.
An Em Pire product—made in Windsor, Canada
1
m
::
—as Wilson was—and then polished off.
It that is to be permitted, then good night
to the game. In this particular instance,
it Joe Wallis hadn’t acted and Wilson
had got back on his feet and been badly
knocked about—as he must have been—
who except outright sadists could have
gone away feeling other than disgusted?
T° present writer’s way of thinking,
alleged “rule” doesn’t operate and
can t operate while there’s any decent
feeling in anybody at all. This ought
to be stated. As things are there will
away B be post-mortem wrangling.
Whether the blow is accidental or other-
Wlse ~the same goes for a head-bump—
nothing is more unlikely than that Mr.
Wallis, for one, would ever stand by and
let the fouler get away with the fight.
On which account, present scribe says
Good old Joe, and may his sort always
have control of the Noble Art. After
all, it as yet has great claims to that
title. It hasn’t degenerated to the level
of international politics.
Footbrawl
Though Collingwood was licked by
Geelong and Richmond by Melbourne,
none of Saturday’s results made any dif-
ference to positions on the V.F.L. table.
Melbourne is first, St. Kilda second, Col-
lingwood third and Richmond fourth.
• P own . at Geelong, ’Wood had a handy
eight-points lead at the end of the second
quarter. After that Geelong came with
a series of rushes, and ’Wood couldn’t
withstand them—lB.l2 to 16.13. Foot-
scray is still at the bottom of the list,
but it scraped home a point ahead of
Essendon—lB.ls to 17.20—its tally being
the highest for the day. “Sowth” was
downed by Carlton, 16.17 to 12.16, and
Carlton, six points below Richmond, still
has hopes of making “the four.” Better
kicking for goal would have given the
Tigers a win over Melbourne. Scores at
the finish were 15.16 to 13.21. St. Kilda,
notorious for in-and-out play, is a model
of consistency these days. Hawthorn was
visited by the Saints on Saturday—and
accounted for by 15.17 to 11.18. Fitzroy
vanquished North, but found it tough—
-10.20 to 9.16.
n * * *
Drummoyne has moved up to take the
lead in Sydney’s Rugby Union com-
petition. On Saturday the Reds were
too strong, forward and back, for Eastern
Suburbs, though they were 3-5 at half
time. Gilleland scored a couple of tries
from the centre early in the second half,
and another by the forwards made it
12-5. ’Varsity began too smartly for
Gordon, having 11 points on the board
m 10 minutes, and 19-8 at the interval.
Afterwards Gordon got within striking
distance, but had come too late—2 B-23
(eight tries to three).
With the five men chosen for the Eng-
lish tour out, together with Towers and
Stone, Randwick was scarcely recog-
nisable as it lined up against North, and
it couldn’t notch a point. North went
along steadily, two tries and one goal
each half: 16-nil. West’s forwards bul-
locked their way through the Manly
pack, then gave the ball to their backs—
tactics which brought seven tries —and
Manly was licked 31-14. Parramatta v.
St. George was just a scramble—’Matta
12-9.
* * * *
Playing Rugby League, South Sydney
downed Eastern Suburbs 13-6 in a match
remarkable more for dourness than
thrills. By superior attacking play South
got across three times—Tuohey scored
two nice tries—and at the interval had
11 to 4. The three-quarter line was
then reshuffled. Dangerous tactics, but
for once they served. St. George, the
leader, and Norths had a ding-dong
tussle, Saints coming from behind to win
24-17. Balmain played another draw-
-13 all—this time against West; and Can-
terbury-Bankstown tramped all over
Newtown, 30-11.
* jft 3(e
There was tall scoring in the first
Soccer match Australia v. Palestine.
Twelve goals were netted. Seven went to
the home side, whose victory was the
result of superior co-ordination and speed.
Australia started off determinedly.
Trapping cleanly and passing accurately,
the forwards slashed the opposition to
ribbons, slamming in goal after goal.
Under the pressure even the two sturdy
full-backs wilted, while Sidi, at goal, was
just a pushover.
At half-time the Palestinians were
down 6-1. In the second half they
brought off some pretty weaving move-
ments, but Australia was never at any
stage in danger of being overhauled,
though McNabb stopped bulletlike shots
to which his safe hands flashed as if
drawn by a magnet. Australia’s usual
vigorousness of play was well sustained.
Eor the losers Werner gave a fine exhibi-
-d°n ? controlled footwork and shoot-
ing—he landed three goals.
tardy recognition of local talent-
[’hanr,f> SaVe mon cy or give the visitors a
have hp°/n S?m f^ ln F~ five
have been included m the second Aus-
bat an on' e s a aTurd 0 a y Play at
Nineteenth Hole
oJn w^ri al if ns figured in the British
open at St. Andrews—J. M. Baillieu, the
Melbourne amateur, and Bill Shankland,
the tormer Rugby League footballer, who
has found golf a lucrative calling since
g f ew R t0 ° old for the more strenuous
game. Baillieu played particularly well
!f. the qualifying rounds, his aggregate
being 146—a stroke better than Bobby
Br , uen ; from Ireland, only 19,
ed the field with an aggregate of 138,
Cotton and Lawson Little tying for
second place with 142. An astonishing
performance on the part of the Irish
youth, and, although he didn’t quite
"The pro. says I've to pay more attention to timing."
repeat it in actual play for the cham-
pionship, the brand of the coming cham-
pion is on the young man for all to
behold.
It was damp underfoot and overhead,
and it thundered, lightened, and blew
as if it would shift St. Andrews into the
next county when the first round was en-
tered upon. Locke was one of four
leaders who went round in 70. R. A.
Whitcombe was one of six with cards
of 71 ; Bruen, Shankland and four others
were on the 72 list, Cotton returning a
74. Baillieu took 77, and his second
round of 79 put him out.
Shankland stayed in, with 73. An-
other 72 made him look a likely winner:
he was then second to one Fallon, and
Cotton, Bruen and Locke had fallen
away. Unfortunately the ex-footballer’s
fourth round was comparatively poor—
77—and in the result he tied for third
place with R. A. Whitcombe —last year’s
champion—Fallon, Perry and King.
Burton, a British pro., won with a score
of 290; Bullen, an American, was
second, beaten by two strokes.
* * * *
Miss Margaret Rankin, a Newcastle
girl, has become N.S.W. golf champion
of her sex. Her opponent in the final
was Miss Betty Nathan, of The Lakes,
whose methods, like those of the winner,
are very deliberate. The damsels got on
the nerves of certain of their opponents,
for the weather was as cold as charity.
One young woman played in slacks. A
matron, who seemed well in the run-
ning, was wrapped up almost to the eyes.
She explained that she had children to
look after and she wasn’t going to risk
catching pneumonia for any trophy.
* * * *
Miss Joan Lewis, of the Metropolitan
club, won the Victorian women’s cham-
pionship, beating Miss Cheney, of
Eastern, 7 and 5 in the final. Royal
Melbourne staged the contest, which saw
Miss Betty Kernot, the national cham-
pion, and Miss Nankivell, who holds the
S.A. title, defeated with surprising ease
by Miss Lewis.
& s? a
Norman Von Nida’s name was on the
programme at St. Andrews, the Queens-
lander having forgotten to notify the
management that he would be 12,000
miles away or thereabouts. He is back
in Sydney and intends having a shot at
The Lakes open, and Miss Didrikson is
expected to be another competitor. Miss
D. (who is Mrs. Z.) has been playing
very in-and-out golf in Victoria—like a
champion one day and like a fourth-rater
the next. One enthusiast has proclaimed
the lady “better than Joyce Wethered,”
but she has yet to prove it.
Racquet and Bawl
Judging by Wimbledon form, even
though the standard may have slumped
a bit, the American team will be a tough
nut to crack in the Davis Cup final, if
Bromwich and Quist (now on milk diet
for his tummy trouble) get that far.
In the singles at Wimbledon Riggs and
Cooke drove the representatives of all
other nations engaged off the centre
court; and there are better men than
Cooke at home. Sighs went up from
every flapper in England, and the Stunt
Press could with difficulty be restrained
from declaring war, when Cooke reduced'
“Bunnay” Austin to a sweating and be-
draggled wreck. In three sets “Bunnay”
won four games. He has never had such
a doing since he took to tennis.
When “Bunnay” was disposed of the
crowd’s hopes centred in Ghaus Mahom-
med, but Riggs beat him 6-2, 6-2, 6-2.
The Indian had, however, reached the
semi-finals and made a very encouraging
first appearance at Wimbledon. It has
long been known that Indians can play
hockey and cricket (Australia has never
seen a more interesting batsman than
the late Ranji), and obviously they are
coming on in tennis.
Riggs beat Cooke in the final, and the
pair won the doubles, overcoming Hare
and Wilde in four sets.
Almost as great a shock to the flappers
and their press as the discomfiture of
“Bunnay” was the defeat of their new
idol, Miss Nicol, in the first round of
the women’s singles. For months Miss
Nicol had been paragraphed and photo-
graphed as much as the latest film star
Compensation arrived when Miss Stam-
mers, of the lover-ly legs, defeated Miss
Jacobs in one of the quarter-finals, and
Miss S. did the job properly: 6-2, 6-2.
But in the final she could only score two
games against Miss Alice Marble, who,
except that she wears “very short shorts,”’
looks like a principal boy straight from
a Naughty ’Nineties panto.; and with
Mrs. Fabyan Miss M. took the doubles
also.
Australia had one representative at
Wimbledon, G. M. Hone, of Adelaide;
but Hone is not the player he was, and
he didn’t get very far in anything. Ameri-
cans won everything.
Miscellaneous
The vSydney oarsmen encountered very
strong opposition at Royal Henley’s Cen-
tenary Regatta. In the first heat of the
Diamond Sculls
Turner was drawn
against a Pole,
Verey. Wind and
rain made the con-
ditions brutal, and
they must have told
against Turner,
though the chap
from the wild Baltic
could scarcely have
found them strange.
The Sydneysider set
up a lead of a
couple of lengths,
but the Polack soon
caught him, and the
end of the race saw
him three lengths ahead, the time being
9.38. Verey figured in the final, beaten
quarter of a length by Burk, the
American.
A strong head wind was blowing when
the Sydney eight met Kingston in a
Grand Challenge Cup heat. It was a
grim struggle, and both crews were all
out at the finish. Sydney led for a mile ;
then Kingston caught it, and, pulling
desperately, they raced together. With
a final heroic effort, Sydney drew away,
to win by 3ft. Its time was 7.50, but in
beating Leander Jesus College did 7.32,
and Harvard cut that down to 7.23 in
vanquishing London by a couple of
lengths.
Heat times were a good guide to the .
result. Meeting the Argonauts, a big
crew from Toronto, the Sydneysiders
were defeated by three lengths in 7.35.
Then Harvard beat Jesus College by 2\
lengths in 7.21. In the final Harvard '
proved much too good for the Argo-
nauts —in 7.40.


THE
AT
I
I.
TIV©
CuUv~cu.]/X
MELBOURNE
Tty ice Daily -2iS~t
COMMENCING MONDAY, JUDY' 17,
Th© Empire’s Most Famous Jester,
GEORGE ROBEY,
anil His Hisr New Company of Variety.
XiAST DAYS
“BROADWAY HOT SHOTS”
featuring SENATOR MURI’HY, FOUR
FRANKS, and 10 other acts.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Love Affair.”
Irene Dunne, Charles Boyer.
What could be more distressing than
a sort of modern Casanova and Rudolph
Valentino rolled into one ; a suave Con-
tinental cove whose doings make front-
page news from London and Paris to
N’Yark and whose engagement to an
Amurrican heiress allows half the male
population of the globe to cease doubting
their wives’ fidelity? Though he might
appeal to the feminine frame he’d strike
normal males as about the least pleasant
specimen of their order. Yet in exactly
that role in this Sydney Regent offering
Mr. Boyer blends a measure of whim-
sicality with what is commonly termed
charm and creates a very pleasant and
wholly likeable character.
Also, Miss Dunne is fresh and charm-
ing in a role that generally does nothing
except induce sleep. She’s been taken
from a night-club—“where she used to
sing until 3 a.m. and race her boss
around the table until 4 a.m. a
wealthy young chap who knocked the
rough edges off her and sent her to
Yurrup for a final polish before marry-
ing her. Returning to N’Yark with the
best of intentions, she encounters Mr.
Boyer, also sailing for N’Yark and his
heiress, and also with the best of in-
tentions.
And there you have the pair of them,
both very pleasant persons and both due
to marry two other very pleasant per-
sons and both falling pretty solidly for
each other. Handled with restraint and
finesse, it’s kept on a plane of comedy
that’s as light as blown froth yet never
light enough to detract from the sincerity
of the story and players.
The film never lags, halts or falters.
It was directed by Leo McCarey, who
directed “The Awful Truth,” and there
is the same skilful use of dialogue to
obtain the maximum effect with a mini-
mum of words; the same concentration
on the two chief members of the cast;
the preference for half-spoken words,
nods and gestures instead of direct
speech; the subtle infusion of gentle
comedy to strangle any sentimentalism
and a hundred and one other small
touches of naturalness.
An altogether delightful film with nary
a tiff, villain or a vestige of any other
unpleasantness throughout.
“Dodge City”
Errol Flynn, Olivia de Havilland.
This highly-colored and excited Western
at Sydney Plaza shows Mr. Flynn at his
immaculate prettiest. He is, of course,
quite attractive at any time, but in color
he really is beautiful.
It was, perhaps, a little inconsiderate
of the filmsmiths to cast Mr. Flynn as
a cowpuncher-CMw-sheriff, and audiences
will bear with him in realising that when
one has such pearly white molars, such
sleek, unruffled hair and neatly-trimmed
moustache, one must preserve a certain
amount of dignity and refrain from too
much horseplay. And, of course, one
must always remember that one’s per-
fectly cut cowpunching clothes might be
soiled if one indulged in low bar-room
rough-and-tumbles.
Anyway, ladies, rest assured that Mr.
Flynn’s loveliness remains unsullied
throughout.
For mere males there are other arrest-
ingly beautiful scenes —brown buffalo on
yellow prairies ; the late afternoon sun
breaking through trees and reflecting on
the woodwork of an old wagon ; horses
and wagons against the sunset and
rimmed with red fire ; and one master-
“Never knew YOU Was a nartist , Joe.”
“Well I ain’t never tried before, but I’m going to ’ave a cut at that there Archibald Prize."
piece of a whole wagon-train mirrored
in an ice-blue river. Then there’s a shot
of a stagecoach racing a train and an-
other clinking scene of two horses
struggling and rearing on their hind legs.
Also, there’s a pub brawl (without Mr.
Flynn) wherein every bottle and stick
of furniture and most of the several hun-
dred participants are reduced to wreck-
age.
However, the fact remains that West-
erns are still Westerns, even with the
added gloss of technicolor. In this case
the material is nothing out of the box—
the establishment of law and order in
a Western cattle town and rail-head —
and though there’s plenty of action
there’s no really strong central character
to give it much rhyme or reason. Cooper
might have done the job, but it’s beyond
Flynn.
“Un Carnet de Bal.”
It’s at the Savoy, Sydney. This
latest Continental import —Continental
should evidently be pronounced French
—has the leisureliness noted in some ot
its forerunners so magnified as to be a
rather serious fault.
Those who have a special interest in
these Continental productions will no
doubt find it engaging enough as a whole
and most excellent —as it is—in parts.
But from a general filmgoer’s viewpoint
it doesn’t compare with “The Cheat.”
It is a sequence of one-act comedies
and tragedies strung together by a fic-
tional device, and, while one or two of
the acts are supremely good, others are
much too drawn-out.
It fails also in another important
aspect. The set-up of it is that a woman
in the late thirties, whose husband has
just passed out, finds among her belong-
ings a list of half a dozen swains who
danced with her at her first ball and all
fell in love with her. She now sets out
to look each of them up in turn, and
each visit makes an act.
For that to be really interesting, the
lady playing the part would need to be
both an extraordinarily fascinating femi-
nine personality and an extraordinarily
good actress. In present writer’s opinion
the woman who has the part is neither
—not in this performance, anyway.
These French filmsmiths are great stick-
lers for realism, and for most of this
opus they insist on Mile. Marie Bell being
the part to the letter. She looks every
minute of her age; in a word, she is
matronly. And the audience is asked
to be interested in her during her suc-
cession of revisits to old flames!
In one or two of the scenes there is a
good deal else to rivet attention but
others are just conversation pieces that
drag. Their only point of interest is in
the character of the man as portrayed,
and in the acts in which the man is
respectively a priest, an Alpine guide and
a hairdresser all that is worth knowing
about him is gathered in a few minutes.
For the rest these acts are merely long
explanatory conversations between the
man and the woman.
The other acts are better, one of them
so good that all the rest of the film
might have excusably been made just to
provide a setting that would properly
emphasise it. The man in this case has
been fearfully through the hoop. A
doctor, he lost the sight of an eye in
Africa; back in France he is living in
an industrial quarter, right alongside a
noisy gigantic crane which tears his
nerves to shreds. He is an epileptic, and
the visit leads up to a tragic climax,
when, in a mad fit, he locks the door,
loads a revolver, and stalks his slatternly
mistress, who rushes about like the
hunted creature she is, belting at doors,
smashing a window, trying frantically m
vain to escape. The whole of this scene
is finely acted.
So is a scene in broad comedy, the
man in this case having become a small-
town mayor. The visit to him happens
on the day of his marriage to his cook,
and just this portion of the film could
be taken out and shown as a complete
and uncommonly effective comedy. The
actor, Raimu, is the mayor he is portray-
ing to the life. It isn’t the usual carica-
ture of a pompous Bumble, but the real
thing itself, at once a figure of fun and
very human. If only half the film was
as good as the bit in which he takes ovei
the conducting of his own wedding from
the stammering Town Hall official, the
production could be called a masterpiece.
There is also good acting in another
of the scenes —by Franfoise Rosay as
a mother mentally affected by the death
of her son ; still expecting him to walk
into the house some 20 years later. This,
of course, is a rather hackneyed idea,
but it is very well done.
In such portions an interesting and
unusual film, it fails as a whole because
all this business leads nowhere. All the
lady gets out of it is disillusion, though
the implication all the way is that she
wouldn’t mind taking up again with
almost any one of the old boy friends.
In the end, though there doesn’t seem
to be much point to it, she has collected
a son of one of the former flames, and
is going to mother him, beginning the
job with a remark to the effect that one’s
first ball is as important as one’s first
cigarette, but not more so, with which
wisecrack the film concludes.
«
Melbourne’s Musical
Marathon.
The musical marathon is in full career
at the Town Hall, Melbourne, and up to
time of writing large and sometimes
enormous galleries of spectators were
rolling up to survey the runners.
Schnabel gave two well-attended con-
certs last week, and was billed to give
another brace this week. The extraordi-
narily relaxed little figure seated at the
piano looked as if the last thing it was
going to do was play the most exacting
pieces of the most exacting masters. But
with Schnabel the work has all been
done beforehand. Touch a butt°n,meta-
phorically speaking, and the musical
argument flows out of him, complete to
Filming Australian Poetry.
There is no suspicion of artiness about
the film H.T.H. Productions made out
of Henry Lawson’s poems “The Storm
That Is to Come” and “The Waratah and
Wattle,” previewed at Sydney Cameo. It
is so well balanced that the shots of
Australian landscape make a fine setting
for the poems, while the verse, ably
spoken, forms exactly the right com-
mentary for the scenes —more natural
than the ordinary “incidental” music and
more effective than a prose commentary.
It’s a “ten-minute” film, opening with
views of Sydney and a glimpse of Law-
son’s statue. As the camera moves to
the Victorian and New South Wales
countryside, the recitation of the verse
begins, and as cattle and sheep, rivers and
lakes, crops and “the wattle that blooms
on the hill” are mentioned, the film sup-
plies the appropriate chain of landscapes.
Drovers and cattlemen are shown at
work, and Lawson’s lines on defending
Australia give an excuse for dramatic
pictures of Light Horse and Militia in
action. There is some sentimentalising of
Lawson, but it’s mild enough.
More of these films from Australian
poetry are contemplated. With Lawson,
“Banjo” Paterson, Kendall and the
wealth of balladry generally, there’s
plenty of excellent material and if the
films maintain the standard of the first
they should be popular in Australia and
good publicity abroad. In the English
documentary “Night Mail” Auden wrote
some effective verse-commentary to order;
the reverse process, making the film to
fit the poem, seems to be just as pleasing.


little
more but
it's WELL
worth it/
Ctutt*™
Cupiemt
1
m
i
'M
p
' :. """"
Gordon's
im
in Ixmdon, hujLuul
THE HEART OF A GOOD COCKTAIL
TANQUERAY. GORDONS CO., r-t, # . .. . . . 777
LTD. LONDON. ENGLAND. JIM UitlfyiU QUI UlttlUM Vfl tfl£ WOilcl
You can have . . ,
BAKED BBEAKFAST
if your Cooker is an
DISHES
AGA
m
pm*.
1
VOU can’t imagine how
1 truly wonderful the AGA
is until you have seen it
learned how it makes cooking
easier . . . better . . . cleaner.
The AGA burns continuously
and is ready to bake, fry,
grill, steam, roast, braize, boil,
toast, stew or simmer at any
time of the day or night—no
waiting for heat. * Baked
breakfast dishes —unheard of
with ordinary ranges—can be
had quickly and easily if your
cooker is an AGA (see recipe
below); while the stalest bread
becomes deliciously fresh if
put into the AGA oven for a
few minutes.
Yet with all its amazing features, AGA is the most economical cooker in
the world —the model illustrated is guaranteed to consume not more than
£3 worth of coke per year (with coke at 30/- per ton). A few minutes
a day is all the attention it requires ; a damp cloth keeps it sparklingly
clean.
If you would like a cooker which is a foolproof automaton, that will give
you more leisure, new and more appetising dishes and the lowest fuel costs
in the world, write, without obligation, for a copy of the AGA booklet R 7.
It is free and post free.
JfaQmmiyieatSimai
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LI ERE is a simple recipe for
11 a delicious breakfast dish
which can be prepared and
cooked in the AGA oven in three
minutes.
BAKED EGGS.
Break 2 eggs into a ramekin dish.
Add blitter, salt, pepper, grated cheese,
and a little milk or cream. Place on
the top shelf of the AGA roasting oven
and bake for 24-3 minutes. Serve in
ramekin. It’s delicious.
LEVIN & CO. LTD., 45 King St., Sydney
Established (Inc. in N.Z.) 1852.
and 432 Bourke St., Melbouvne, and Box 149«. Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
the last detail, like the thesis of a philo-
sopher who has spent a lifetime thinking
out some problem.
He played the Opus 110 and the “Wald-
stein” sonata of Beethoven, the Four
Impromptus and the A Major post-
humous sonata of Schubert; also the
“Davids bundlertanze” of Schumann. The
last-named was followed with rapt atten-
tion by a houseful of musical students
and teachers who had come to see how
he did it and, no doubt, went away in a
greater state of bewilderment than ever.
Indisposition postponed one concert by
Marjorie Lawrence, but she appeared in
full voice on Saturday before an entirely
different kind of audience. There was
some beautiful mezzo voice in Cleo-
patra’s Air from the “Julius Caesar” of
Handel and excellent tone and color in
the flowing brightness of her Schubert
panel. A dejightful lullaby sung with
tender simplicity introduced a composer
new to Australian audiences, Canteloube.
At the end of a long and tiring pro-
gramme the undaunted lady sang her
favorite aria from the closing scene of
the “Gotterdammerung” for an encore,
and her voice was as ringing as ever in
the forte passages, but could not fail to
sound a little tired in the softer ones.
No Victorian singer has had a greater
triumph than Miss Lawrence, and the
management ought to be kinder to her in
the matter of the amber spotlights. But
perhaps it likes them.
An Amurrican Play.
The layout of “Yes, My Darling
Daughter” has been set forth in the
Sundry Shows review of the film version.
As a stage offering the play was put on
by a new company at Melbourne King’s
on Saturday, but, though the situations
were real enough and the emotions what
anyone might feel, somehow or other it
didn’t get over.
The cast of American and Australian
actors had to work so hard to infuse
inspiration into it that it would be unfair
to judge them. Still, Pauline Lord, the
leading lady, was warm and human as
the mother. She has a natural way of
acting. Jane Conolly was excellent as
the daughter, and the local Lloyd Lamble
as her lover had his moments. Harvey
Adams could make nothing of the father,
and Doris Packer did no better with her
role of an aunt who specialises in
divorcing husbands than she did with a
similarly empty character in “The
Women.” lan Keith as a literary agent
was without form or content.
“Elijah” in Costume.
Sydney Phil., which made a dramatised
version of “Elijah” its contribution to
the N. S. Wales sesquicentenary cele-
brations, repeated the performance at the
Con. Hall on Saturday night very suc-
cessfully.
Vern Barnett being sick, Maynard
Wilkinson conducted. Choir and orches-
tra were at their best; Raymond Beatty,
who was Elijah, has never sung better,
and Heather Kinnaird, Isolda Hill and
Godfrey Stirling acquitted themselves
well.
Staging and costuming were devised
with discretion, introduced ballets were
not incongruous, and the evanishment of
the prophet in the last act was a fine
bit of stagecraft. Humphrey Bishop,
producer, and Guenda Bainton, who was
responsible for costumes and lighting, had
reason to be proud.
Georg Szell in Sydney.
At Sydney Town Hall one night last
Week Georg Szell led the A.B.C.’s
orchestral forces (currently known as
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra) through
works of widely differing character.
First came Stravinsky’s “Divertimento,”
which for half an hour or so, with the
utmost cleverness, pours derision upon
the great classicists and romanticists
alike. The intention is plain enough, and
its execution is full of interest, but a
sneer’s a disagreeable thing in any
medium of expression. Followed another
Russian, Glazounov, represented by his
Violin Concerto. Glazounov has all the
melodic resource of Tschaikowsky, and
expresses even more eloquently his vague
regrets and sad memories. In this and the
Stravinsky fantasia, Haydn Beck’s violin
was chief spokesman. Beck commands
a good tone, and curves his phrases
beautifully.
4( After the interval came Mozart's
Jupiter” Symphony, a crushing reply to
Stravinsky and a fine antidote for
Glazounov’s tears of self-pity. The
strength, logic, fire and elegance of the
well-known work were given expression
in masterly style.
Royal Art Society's Show .
The annual exhibition of the Royal
Art Society of N. S. Wales at the Educa-
tion Department’s gallery, Sydney, runs
true to type, the greater amount of the
wall-space being covered by the work of
painters whose names and styles are well
known, and who have no surprises to
offer.
Of the landscapes by Lister Lister,
James R. Jackson, Howard Barron, Syd
Long, Erik Langker, Will Ashton, Leslie
Walker and S. G. Goddard, all that can
be said is that they are up to the usual
high standard of these practitioners. Jack
Salvana, whose work has been improv-
ing vastly, in the direction of more free-
dom and vigor, in the last two years,
scores a bull’s-eye with “Milking Time,”
which has opened the purse-strings of the
N. S. Wales Nat. Gallery Trustees.
Among the coming-on youngsters, Lance
Solomon shows some thoughtful impres-
sions. G. V. F. Mann, not often an
exhibitor nowadays, puts in some attrac-
tive canvases. A reminder of a fine
painter and a charming personality is a
gay sea-piece, “S.S. Esperance Bay,” by
Charles Bryant. Best piece of sea-paint-
ing by the living is Fred Notting’s “Surf.”
In figure-work and portraiture, G.
Lyall Trindall leads the way with work
which has the graceful flavor of the
school of Gainsborough and Reynolds.
The portrait of Enid Evans is outstand-
ing, and a child study is delightful. H. A.
Hanke shows a clever portrait of a boy,
“The Young Airman.” In a big three-
quarter-length portrait of a lady in pink
his skill in posing seems to have deserted
him, and the gloved right hand hangs
awkwardly stiff. A nice low-toned cos-
tume piece, “Interior,” however, shows
improvement in this genre. Alan D.
Baker and Alan Moore have some attrac-
tive figure studies on view. J. Wolinski’s
portrait of Tom Gurr is a vigorous bit
of work. Joe Holloway succeeds with
“Cecilia.” N. H. Baker’s portraits are
too highly polished. Frank Medworth’s
“The Equestrian Act” is an ungainly bit
of impressionism.
Water-colorists, etchers, pencil draughts-
men and so forth fill a big wing of the
gallery. Outstanding are Tom Garrett’s
monotypes. In water-color H. Nevill
Smith is at his best in “The Inlet
George’s River.” Douglas Pratt shows
as good a sense of color as of form.
D. M. Barrie s harborside sketches show
rich promise, and Westralian R. M.
Thompson s Sunlit Stream” catches the
eye. Napier Thompson’s “Geraniums” is
an effective decorative piece.
In sculpture principal offering is
Angelo Rossi’s “Australian Venus,” a
rather austere and mature lady who looks
as if she ought to be wearing spectacles.
Loma Lautour has some romantic trifles
on show.
The Wooden House Show.
This is up on the top floor of David
Jones’s George-street (Sydney) store,
being the annual effort of the N. S. Wales
Forestry Department to raise a cheer for
the indigenous timbers. There’s a brave
display of these in various connotations—
mahogany, tallow-wood, cypress, hoop-
pine, birch and the Lord knows how
many eucalypti—beautiful woods all of
them when properly prepared. There are
models of wooden houses at building
prices from £5OO to £2OOO, and very
attractive some of these look.
Whether their estimated price permits
the use of the beautiful Australian
timbers on view is another matter. The
average timber-merchant, in Sydney at
any rate, throws up both hands in de-
spair if asked for anything outside his
routine lines of imported Oregon,
cypress (flooring quality only), ironbark
posts and hoop-pine in a very restricted
range of sizes. However, the Forestry
Commission offers, on demand, to dis-
close “sources of supply and prices of
timber,” and the Commission in its
literature makes out a very good case for
the wooden house.
Maoriland uses hardly anything else for
domestic dwellings, and builders there
swear that properly-seasoned timber lasts
a good century. In N. S. Wales, however,
so many municipalities have made build-
ing in wood a penal offence that some
alteration of the law seems necessary
(and some cheapening of local timber
supplies) before the Australian house
built of Australian timber becomes more
than a wistful dream.


WiWmm
r 1
WT
r.f
:-x; ,
MR
•:••••
ESSMS
■
sm
*
\jCMjn&tCial
4
O
cJiliutkatity
embraces Caricaturing,
Cartooning, Drawing for
Magazines, and all the aspects of Advertising Art.
Wonderful opportunities exist in this Profession for
people with natural drawing ability, providing they are
willing to undergo thorough Training.
The Art Training Institute is the only School which can
provide Correspondence Training of sufficiently high
calibre to ENSURE SUCCESS.
sd
FREE ART TESTS
Before accepting anyone as a
pupil, the A.T.I. insists on putting
them through a Test, which is
quite Free, however.
If YOU can draw, write at once
for the beautifully illustrated 32-
page booklet, entitled “Art Ability
Tests.” There is absolutely no
cost or obligation if you mention
“Tbe Bulletin.”
art training institute
“Australia’s Foremost School of Commercial Art,
80 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE, VIC.
THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
m
jams*
.41
specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Si »■ «r “5 TJie ,SS iuSSS-
and co '’, v ® 1 ” 1^,.tlt f u l A atniosifhove. Terms on application.
ings and delightful atmospne . ticulars from
IttZ’ Trustees^ 1 " 14 °° Spring Wet, Sydney,
’Phone: J 34771.
Legal Notice.
Estate Gibson George Crawford, Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of South Australia dated the 16th day
of June 1939 and made in the matter of the
estate of GIBSON GEORGE CRAWFORD de-
ceased (late of Port Lincoln m the State ot
South Australia draper who died partially in-
testate on the 12th day of January. 1939) No.
530 of 1939 whereby the following inquiry was
directed: Whether Ellen Mary. Crawford wife
of the said deceased survived him and whether
the said deceased had issue who survived him
and if the said Ellen Mary Crawford or any
issue survived him whether they are since dead
and if so who are their legal Personal repre-
sentatives NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
the persons claiming to be entitled under the
said inquiry namely the said Ellen Mary Craw-
ford and any issue of the said deceased are on
nr before the 28th day of August 1939 to send
by post prepaid to MESSRS. VAUGHAN &
LITCHFIELD Industrial Building King Wil-
liam Street Adelaide the Solicitors for the
estate of the said Gibson George Crawford
deceased their full Christian and surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particu-
lars of their claims Claimants are to attend
personally or by their Solicitors before the
Master at his Chambers Supreme Court House
Victoria Square Adelaide on the sth day of
September 1939 at 10.30 o’clock in the fore-
noon being the time appointed for hearing and
adjudicating upon their claims or in default
thereof they will be peremptorily excluded from
the benefit of the said Order.
DATED this 30th day of June, 1939.
(Sgd.) F. B. McBRYDE,
Master of the Supreme Court of South
Australia.
N.B. —The said deceased’s wife, formerly
Fllen Mary Clare, married the said deceased
nn the lBBO, at the General Registry
Office Adelaide, and is believed to have been
Sr known as Ellen Mary Hawke (or Hawkes).
To Let.
CORNISH RIVIERA.
IELL-FURNISHED HOUSE, three Bedrooms,
uo Reception Rooms, Kitchen, Pantry, Bath-
0 m (hot and cold water), every modern con-
• nee five minutes main-line statio ,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
From the cold wind and scudding
cloud of Saturday the lift at the Educa-
tion Department Galleries transported
you to a place of sunlit grass, of green
trees, of flowers rich with the beauty of
midsummer. The Royal Art Society s
exhibition was ready to be opened. There
was the stilly loveliness of Syd Long’s
“Turn of the Road” and “Winter Sun-
shine” ; there was Charlie Bryant’s “Pont
Neuf, Paris,” new, indeed, in the six-
teenth century. The fine head of Mar-
garet Swan has been painted by Wolinski,
and it emerges from a frock of deep rich
blue, a great contrast to the pale blue
(it is the blue of a sky just washed with
rain) kerchief tying, peasant fashion, the
head of the fair girl gazing at it. Erik
Langker bustled about ; his tall figure
seemed to have a quicksilver quality. One
or more of his pictures had been sold,
and he was pleased. Nevill-Smith’s ‘Coral
Island, South Seas,” seemed a pleasant
place to linger.
Everybody was pleased over the Gal-
lery’s buying of Jack Salvana’s “Milking
Time.” Jack always goes to the heart of
the bush and the country for his subjects,
and Rubery Bennett was displaying with
great glee a photograph of the artist
standing at gaze before his easel set up
in the deeps of the Burragorang. Twined
around the pegs with its head turned
towards the stretched canvas is a diamond
snake, loops and loops of it. The snake
still lives, for Salvana is sort of big
brother to all the bushland creatures. In
the show Lyall Trindall has some attrac-
tive lasses, but nobody more so than
Estelle Andrews, who was Estelle
Oxnard-Smith, and who was again, to
everybody’s pleasure, still helping to run
the opening. Palm for the nicest hat at
the opening goes to Mrs. Ernest Empson.
Of Robin Hood green, it jutted to a
pleated brim in front, was brimless there-
after, and streaked up to an elflike
crown. Mrs. Muscio, B. E. Minns s
widow with niece Isabel Minns, Mrs.
Erik Langker, conductor Georg Szell’s
wife, the daughters of D. H. Souter, the
Julian Ashtons, Mrs. Ben Edye, George
Black, Alice Bryant, Howard Hinton and
the Francis Andersons were other visitors.
Sun and cheerfulness abound at Wade
House, the new private block of the
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children,
which was opened on Saturday by the
Governor. The enthusiast behind this
delightful place where every child will
feel it a privilege to be sick is Dr. Rat-
cliff, the medical superintendent, who
justly claims that all the good points of
all the hospitals he has visited in his
recent tour abroad are incorporated
in Wade House, plus some that have
been thought out particularly to suit
the Australian child.
What will first capture the child fancy
on entering the door are the murals. Pixie
O’Harris has let her fanciful brain and
clever brush go right ahead. Jackadgery,
a character from Frank Dalby Davison’s
Children of the Dark Ages, rules the
primrose walls below stairs. Here the
animals and birds he loved are used to
point out the turnings. For instance, a
platypus, his bundle on his shoulder, is
reclining against a milestone which reads,
“This way to lounge.” Then above a
food hatch are two kookaburras on the
bough thoroughly enjoying a fat worm.
Koalas romp everywhere, and lyrebirds
spread their plumage. On the ground
floor there’s a cafeteria for parents who
may be kept waiting. This is furnished
with red-topped tables and red leather
chairs, and the walls are of Putts pine, a
soft golden Australian wood that gladly
reflects the sunlight.
Dr. Ratcliff points out the ray which
shoots across the lift door and posi-
tively prevents accidents from doors clos-
ing on the tardy. Directly anybody in-
tervenes between the light and the door
the door shoots open. Then, too, each
lift is fitted with a telephone, automati-
cally connecting with the hall service,
just in case of emergency. Another great
point is the lighting in the operating
rooms. Even if the light of the whole
municipality of Camperdown should fail,
each shadowless lamp above the operat-
ing tables would flash into radiance with-
out a second’s delay. The secret is that
emergency lamps are fed by the hospi-
tal’s own generating plant.
Water babies wallowing in the surf,
and mermaids and fabulous fish, and
lifebuoys used as indicators embellish the
walls of a floor where there are single
rooms, rooms for four, and rooms for
two. These rooms are bright with sun-
light and stainless steel, with dainty
lockers for each child. Each child, too,
has a built-in wardrobe. The rooms are
soundproof, the material —a Canadian
wool pulp, Donna Conna —of the ceilings
is a pale honey color, and the floors
are of cork tiles. The windows of the
bedrooms are large and wide and can be
opened right to the top, so that the beds
can be wheeled on to the surrounding
sun-flooded balconies. In fact, sunlight
and air, bright paint and a charming
color scheme (each floor is different) for
curtains and bedspreads are Wade House
specials. There’s a playroom (a fairy-
tale motif and children and koalas at
play make the gay walls even gayer),
and here sunshine gilded and warmed
everything even on d cold midwinter
afternoon. Beyond the playroom is a
sun roof, complete with sand pile. Wade
House is to meet the needs of the sick
child whose parents can afford to pay
from four to six guineas a week. Up
till the present such children have had
to go to adult hospitals.
From the roll-up to Dickie Crooks s
concert last Saturday it might have been
a night with a nightingale singing his
love to the rose. If the season had con-
tinued there would probably not have
been foothold for him on the stage.
Richard certainly has nice platform man-
ners. His good nature is never ruffled.
He was giving out the title of an encore,
and suddenly enthusiasts who knew the
work commenced to clap loudly. He
waited till they had stopped. “Very well,
then,” he said, “I won’t tell you the name.
But, anyway, it’s by Handel.” He finished
up his season by having all hands and
the cook on the platform. He sang
“Panis Angelicus,” which meant organist
Truman and violinist Karoly Szenassy
were there to share the final applause
with him. The Bulletin’s special deco-
ration to you, Mr. Crooks !
Americans in Sydney, in company with
Americans all over the world, unfurled
Uncle Sam’s lovely flag on the Glorious
Fourth. Stars scattered about it always
give a flag a sort of Hallelujah look-
think of our own emblem. Consul-
General Wilson drank his toast before
flying north, and the cocktail shaker was
kept busy in many an American home
during the afternoon session. In the even-
ing the Anglo-American Ball at the Aus-
tralia was a crowded affair, blithe with
chat and heady with “The Star-spangled
Banner” and our own National Anthem,
which supplies also the music for a
U S.A. patriotic hymn, “My Country,
’Tis of Thee.” All tongues spoke praise
of Roosevelt. The Consul-General had
given two receptions at his Woollahra
home in honor of his country’s Day
beforehand. These were four-to-six par-
ties, and were done in style, for the C.-G.
is a noted host.
The ball sparkled from the word go.
The music was brisk, the dressing crisp,
rich and colorful. The president of the
American Society, A. C. Aubry, ana
Mrs. Aubry entertained the official guests
at a table which was horseshoe-shaped.
And why not? Horseshoes for luck!
Deep green and silver lame was worn by
Mrs. Aubry, and Mrs. Doyle, wife of the
American Consul, wore a brightly-pat-
terned frock, all reds and greens. Trade
Commissioner for Britain Burton and his
wife were in this group. A star-dusted
design sparkled on Mrs. Wils’on Flake s
white crepes. The softness of black
Chantilly was worn by Mrs. Von Hake,
and black net looked its most charming
on Mrs. H. C. Steiner. Ermine and bur-
gundy and silver lame were noted as
Mrs. Dan Kelly passed. Mrs. Van Elman-
dorf, a visitor from Philadelphia, went
striped in navy and white taffeta. Her
white ostrich-feather cape was more than
waist length. Pianist Adella Anderson
was among the dancers. Romance looked
in, and Lesley Fleming, of Chatswood,
and Richard Warn, of Santa Fe (U.S.A.),
announced their engagement.
Here is a clever Australian woman
who keeps her own house, teaches her
sons and finds time to write short stories
and novels. Mrs. Rhoda Glover, writer
of one of the “Australian Woman’s
Mirror’s” last-year serials, “Warren
Wives,” lives with her husband (he’s a
returned soldier) and her boys, John and
Eric, on an apple orchard at Mt. Barker,
250 miles out of Perth. Till this year she
has taught her children by means of the
Education Department’s correspondence
course. The elder won a scholarship, and is
now at the Modern School in Perth. The
younger one, who is to be a farmer, is
now also at school in Perth. So now
Mrs. Glover is stretching her wings over
this State —the Mountains and Can-
berra and all the other beauty spots
are being visited. Mrs. Glover tells this
Letter she has always worked to a time-
table, and her story-writing is done in
the afternoon. Before her marriage she
was a schoolteacher, and wrote, stories
in between. Photograph from Falk.
Interesting to see the different types of
women who crowded the reception in
honor of Florence Taylor. This was held
in the Australia and was a public con-
gratulation to Florence on her riewly-
acquired 0.8. E. There probably is not,
in Sydney, a more versatile personality
than Mrs. Taylor. She has the tall figure,
the well-featured face with the gentle doe
expression, beloved by English painteis.
She has a keen business brain, she is an


?
BUY A COMPLETE NEW RADIO
SET THIS YEAR
When You Can Instal in Your Present Cabinet
A WORLD FAMOUS BRAND
CHASSIS, VALVES AND SPEAKER
BRIEF SPECIFICATIONS:
© Seven-valve Dual-wave Superheterodyne.
© Class B Amplification.
© Automatic Volume Control.
© Pick-up for Gramophone.
• Etched Edgelit Glass giving all Station
Callsigns.
SAVE NEARLY £2O
SEND COUPON FOR DETAILS.
Fully Guaranteed for 12 Months
V. :- ! 'i
FOR BATTERY OPERATION ONLY.
George Brown & Co. Pty., Ltd
Electrical and Industrial Engineer , * *
267 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS; “BROWNLOCK,** SYDNEY
COUPON.
Speaker? 08 * details of Seven-valve Chassis, Valves and
NAME
ADDRESS
architect and is keen on town-planning.
i!r ed , th ? Arts Club ’ mainl y as a
l ? be B inmn g singers, musicians
Kf? a l r ' nter ?sted in the cultural side of
t 'fiu 0 Wlf< ? of Premier Stevens was
rv! ? th f s P eaker s at the reception. Mrs.
Va HShan, Mrs. T. H. Kelly,
An!!? 1 Anderson, Mrs. W. J.
Andrews Mrs. Bertie Kelly, Aubrey Hal-
oran and Mrs. I. L. Marden also gave
r the many interests of the
guest of the afternoon. Masses of flowers
and a bronze standard lamp backed up
the spoken word.
Musical Association colleagues are all
wondering if Mrs. Harold Bott’s brand-
gbter ’ who greeted Australia
? mont Hospital, is going to
tvr l6ll ?} ! n ° tb l er, s lovely soprano voice,
o 0^ 8 knoWn to the singing world
as Marie Brown. Elder daughter Moya,
just about two, shows signs of being a
star wiestler with the piano.
After an illness that had cast a gloom
over a wide circle in Sydney, that great
urgeon John McKelvey died in his home
at Tusculum-street, Potts Point, last Fri-
day morning. His wife, who was in
constant attendance on him through his
illness, and through the short con-
valescence that their friends had hoped
might be the prelude to permanent cure,
is receiving messages of condolence from
every corner of Australia. In every State
there are families who owe the life of
some member to the wizardry of the late
surgeon’s knife. His great passion, apart
trom his profession, was horses. He
knew the life history of every horse of
lenown that has raced in Australia. An-
other grief-stricken by the all-too-soon
death of John McKelvey is his old friend
J. J. Mulligan. For years it had been
their custom to do theatrical first nights
together.
Mary Gilmore s new book of verse,
Battlefields, is soon to be out. Angus and
Robertson are the publishers. It includes
the words written for Howard Carr’s
music of “The Coronation Anthem”
which was sung at the Town Hall.
Former Bulletin writer Arthur Adams
wrote many plays, one at least of which
reached the London stage. Not to be
wondered at, therefore, is that younger
daughter June has taken to acting like a
duckling to water. June, pretty, viva-
c*°.u.s’ dark-haired, who has a talent for
writing, too, is a foremost member of
the Greenwood Tree group, the North of
the Harbor dramatic society that can
pack the Mosman Town Hall even in mid-
winter. On Saturday next, Dodie Smith’s
comedy “ Call a Day ” be pre-
sented by the Greenwood Tree Society,
and June Will play the part of Muriel
Weston. June is still remembered for the
sparkle and light-hearted comedy of her
Audrey, the modern young miss of
“Autumn Crocus.” Photograph by Monte
Luke.
When the office poet needs inspiration
he can now gallop over to Feltex House
and brood over the grassy lawn, the pan-
sies, the azaleas and the camellias of its
roof garden. Here, too, are orange-trees
in fruit, and cypress-trees beside which
one might pine (at so much a line) on
lost love. The wide glass windows of the
boardroom open on to these charms, re-
minding that Feltex and Textiles of Aus-
tralia, Ltd., is ready to do wholesale
business on the lower floors. A great
steel sphere on a pedestal reflected the
comings and goings of the guests at the
housewarming last Thursday. At one
end of the lawn a fountain throws up a
single crystal jet.
If you were really felt-minded you
could have yourself and your home en-
tirely arrayed in the rich tones, the pastel
tints of the Feltex products. Take the
boardroom, for example. This large
room, lighted by sound-proof windows
(their inventor, knight Fisk, was one of
those who drank to the long life of the
nrm), is covered in mulberry shades. The
curtains are of fine beige felt, the easy
chairs are upholstered in the same tone,
while the memorandum books are bound
in brown felt.
No woman can pass the windows on
George and Jamieson streets unmoved.
Here are ladies ski-ing, cosy in trig felt
jackets of brilliant hues. These are em-
bellished with little figures going through
all the stages of the snow-sport be-
ginner. Mayor Norman Nock made the
opening remarks, and knight Sam Cohen
was among the listeners. The drinks at
the opening were so good they might have
been said to be felt, too.
Are you like Professor Waterhouse’s
nurseryman who described camellias as
pink, white and red”? This Letter was
in the same deeps of ignorance till it went
to the Camellia Show. This, the first
of its kind, had been arranged by Profes-
sor Waterhouse and A. O. Ellison, both
“chevaliers of the Camellias,” as one
might say. The little show was in the
Macquarie Galleries, and was by invi-
tation. Camellia-growers from Hunter’s
Hill, from Greenwich, from Parramatta
and from every bit of the North Shore
gathered in conclave. The different
species made brilliant and delicate show-
ing. They were arranged on long tables
covered with white, or were reflected in
the mirrorlike surface of rosewood and
walnut corner tables. The ivory name-
cards, beautifully lettered, were from
Mrs. Darsow’s pen.
Over a bowl of the delicate pink of
the Prince Frederick William hovered
Mrs. Claude Plowman; near by, over
the Genzi with its open centre, its
rosiness showing a tip of white, were
Miss Phillips, of Neutral Bay, and her
sister, Mrs. Holden. Mrs. Holden
comes from Greenwich, and has in
her garden camellia-trees planted 70
years ago. Of her growing were the
Hovey and Mrs. Hovey. Mr. Hovey is
inclined to be red, but Mrs. Hovey has
been crossed. The bride of the after-
noon was the snow-white Sodekakushi.
Its petals turn back from a gold centre,
almost in the fashion of an Irish Elegance
rose.
Probably the jar of white Fimbriata
came from the Windeyer garden at
Hunter River. Miss Margaret Windeyer
lingered near it, and pointed out its
beauties to a group of listeners. Dr.
George Mackaness’s pet was the Tsar, a
gorgeous deep-pink opening to show an
erect, cuplike centre. With the doctor
were his wife and daughter, Mrs. John
Ho me, whose own garden at Hunter’s
Hill has in it camellia-trees over 40 years
old. Mrs. Waterhouse won immediate
favor when she told the women they
could each have a bloom to wear.
Treania Smith and gallery-partner Lucy
Swanton wore their camellias with dis-
tinction. Lute Drummond wore a little
primrose suit topped by a brown Persian-
lamb fez. And talking of Persian lamb
reminds of Mrs. Claude Plowman’s full-
length coat; silky-haired, creamy-white
and black, it was, she said, baby Persian
lamb another example of this age of
youth. Mrs. A. T. Anderson was there ;
so was Mrs. Muscio, who brought Mr.
and Mrs. Paxton, from Pretoria. The
S Africans were deeply impressed with
the effects of culture on the camellia. It
grows untutored and unsung in their land.
The camellias stirred everybody to
garden reminiscences. Miss Margaret
Windeyer told of the camellia grove at
Newtown which was one of the joys of
Sydney of the ’nineties. Miss Phillips
murmured of the blooms grown in the
17 acres of Redlands, her old home, and
still again of the garden of Marybank,
another girlhood home with its thousand
acres, just outside Adelaide. There were
acres of flower garden, and among
voyagers to Australia to whom it
gave joy was Mark Twain. He and his
wife and daughter spent many hours
amid its sweetness when he was on the
historic lecture tour.
Mrs. Alec-Tweedie, of London, visited
Australia two or three years ago and
did many water-color drawings of scenes
which caught her fancy. This inveterate
journey-maker and writer of travel books
has recorded, in similar manner, scenes
from every part of the Empire. Now she
is distributing them to societies and in-
stitutions in London, Canberra, and
in Maoriland’s Wellington. We are to
have London scenes ; London is to have
pictures of outposts of Empire. The
Royal Empire Society in London now
has a corner covered with 40 of this
member’s paintings. Round the board-
room of the Navy League is a double
row of her harbors of the world. In
the last 12 months Mrs. Alec-Tweedie
and her chauffeur have mounted and
framed about 500 of the water-colors.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 934 of 1939.
BFTWEEN MARY DUNBAR Petitioner
And JOHN CECIL BATES DUNBAR
Respondent. __ _ »™
TO JOHN CECIL BATES DUNBAR-
TAKE NOTICE that the said MARY
DUNBAR has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of deser-
tion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required' to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the Twenty-ninth day of
September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not doing
so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of July, a.d. 1939.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
H. E. McINTOSH & ADRIAN, Solicitors
for the Petitioner, 27 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
BETWEEN CLARENCE BIRT FORRESTER
AnifvEßA PHYLLIS FORRESTER Re-
And DAVID ERIC SMITH Co-respondent.
TO DAVID ERIC SMITH late of Sydney in
the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CLARENCE
RTRT FORRESTER has commenced a suit
against the said VERA PHYLLIS FORRESTER
in this Honorable Court and is applying fo
a dissolution of marriage on the ground ot
your adultery with the abovenamed Vera
Phyllis Forrester AND TAKE NOTICE that
you are required to enter an a PP® ar .^ i l ? ce u° r . t nr
said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the Twenty-ninth day
of September One thousand nine hundred and
thirty-nine and in the event of your not doing
so within the limited time or gaming further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under
signed Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this fifth day of July, 1939.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
G. M. STAFFORD, Solicitor for Petitioner,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, _________
TO~CYRILARTHUR IBBOTSON formerly of
Wellington New Zealand Caipenter now
of address unknown.
ABSTRACT OF CITATION FOR
ADVERTISEMENT.
t Supreme Clt Court of New
££*,£ SjjK Apl«fßo£
SON of the P City of Wellington in New Zealand
Married Woman wherein she prays 1° ground
solution of her marriage w jth you on ffi e g ro und
that vou did in or about the month ot June
1934 without just cause wilfully desert her an
that you have without just cause left her con
tinuouslv so deserted for a period .ot three
years and upwards namely from the said month
s?;i hs ss g N y STicE e «s X™4 R o*
atoefaiJ you are w thin Forty (40) days of the
pS%”°of the Supreme
Court 1 Office at Wellington and there to enter
BJSTi sHft
Office at Wellington. , Q
U DATED this 3rd day of JuN J^ 39 n
(l s ) G. E. POLLOCK,
’ Deputy Registrar.
fo' tMtetSS
ad r«SpHN MAJENGARB JJ-
G 2l R Brand H on Y Street, Wellington. New
Zealand.
Melbourne
Chalter
One of the quietest Grand National
weeks on record has come and
Parties were scarce, music, golf and some
old-school-tie functions being the only
ripples upon the social backwater.
The thicker their coats the happier
were their owners among those who
watched the running of the Grand
National Steeplechase at Flemington on
Saturday. Though there were sunshine
and a dearth of wind, the cold was of
the kind that pinches the bones with
fingers of ice. Mrs. Charles Osborn must
have congratulated herself upon her
choice of a coat in rich jay-blue face-
cloth designed with a stitched and quilted
top as complement for a gored skirt. Mrs.
Norman Price followed the popular in-
clination for teal-blue and a feather
under the brim of her sailor hat. Mrs.
Widge Grey was all for fuchsias and
petunias. Among the furs was Rosemary
Knox’s lynx cape, which reached finger-
tip length. Among the fortunate bettors
of the afternoon was Keith Aikman, who
saw his luck romp home for the second
leg of a double with Giant Killer. Unfor-
tunately Mrs. Aikman is in Adelaide and
was missed by her friends during the tun
of the Athenaeum Club cocktail party
and afterwards at her husband s celebra-
tory dinner party. . .
If there is a shortage of oysters m Mel-
bourne this week it can be put down to
that cocktail party. Oysters by the
thousand, devilled and complete wit
their pearls, were served alongside
the swimming pool, which was sur-
rounded by lavish decorations in-
cluding the usual pear-trees, a
romantic grove of tropical vegetation,
some small Nubian slaves and a marble
statue which has belonged to the club
since the most dignified elderly members
of to-day were harum-scarum schoolboys.
Perhaps it was one of the younger mem-
bers who has yet to learn complete
veneration of club property who turned
the statue back to front so that she faced
away from the party’s gayest frivolities.
One of those was the s.s. Giant Killer,
which sailed the pool in fine style, the
clubrooms were filled with smaller Giant
Killers, baby ships cut from vegetable
marrows and carrying cargoes of decora-
tive morsels shaped like tiny, carrots,
pumpkins, potatoes, etc. The incurious
classed them as No.'l decorations mixed
on a sugary marzipan principle and there-
with passed them by, but the inquisitive,
who must try everything once, tasted and
discovered succulent morsels of cheese.
Party invitations read 5-7 p.m., but.as
it’s so much easier to collect people than
it is to get rid of them it was necessary
for Stanley Smith to board the Giant
Killer and ring the end of the watch upon
the ship’s bell before anyone thought of
leaving.
Among the collegiate rallies was a
dinner party to which Tin tern Old Girls
treated themselves while shepherding the
school’s retiring headmistress, Miss Cole-
brook, to the seat of honor. This week
Miss Colebrook relinquishes the position
she has held for six years to undertake
similar responsibilities at “Neggs (other-
wise the New England C. of E. Girls
Grammar School) in the balmier climate
of Armidale (N.S.W.).
Another girls’ school reunion was at
Tudor Court, where Warwick past pupils
made merry and presented the school
principal, Miss Turner, and also Miss Ivy
Turner with the pink carnations which
are still decorating their studies.
Young lads who are Trinity Gram-
marians spent a pleasant evening at The
Palms, presenting the maidens of then
acquaintance to the president of their
association and Mrs. r NV. Meaden and
to the headmaster and Mrs. Prank Shann,
and dancing to all the newest swing music
as soon as the introductions were over
Yet another party redolent of school-
days was held at Phelia Grintwade
House, where the Old Grammarians
Society held its annual at-home, with the
president, Mrs. C. G. Last, and the head-
mistress of the C. of E. G.G.S., Miss D.
Ross, doing the honors. .
About the same age as the collegiate
dancers were the young people who one
night made merry in the dining-room
of St Mary’s Hall, with the girl students
in residence at this University College
acting as hostesses and with representa-
tives of other student bodies present as
special guests. President of the com-
mittee Mary Delahunty wore a two-piece
ensemble of black skirt allied to a tunic
of pomegranate satin faintly patterned
W Th™Palms is popular with the young
folk who trip over the frost-covered grass
to find a cosy room for dancing, not too
large (so that everybody wastes time
looking for everybody else) and not too
small for “The Chestnut Tree” and the
flipping off therein of other folks’ noses.
The P.L.C. debutantes’ return ball in aid
of the Hethersett fund was held in this
locale last week, the hostesses being 12
of the 15 debs, who came out at this
year’s Old Collegians’ Ball. The other
three were country girls, and were un-
able to be present. Supper for about 250
was served at cabaret tables placed
closely together round the room. The
Lex Rentouls were there, and Mrs. Ren-
toul, as president of the Old Collegians
Association, was handed a posy and a
book for her library shelves. Among
those present were the evening s ticket
secretaries, Mrs. 5. L. Wyatt, who wore
a rustling gown of black moire, and
Norma Kelly, who as one of the debs,
was all in white. Dorothy Anderson,
who very seldom misses an Old Collegian
function, was in a bouffant gown of del-
phinium-blue taffeta.
Madame Dupre (pictured herewith) is
the wife of the French organist brought
here by the A.8.C., associated with Melb.
City Council, whose Australian season
commences this week in Tasmania. Mon-
sieur Marcel Dupre possesses a pro-
digious memory (he knows all Bach s
works by heart), and although his reper-
toire is large he never carries music with
him on his travels. In Adelaide, the City
of Churches (which must also be the city
of church organs), M. Dupre so lost him-
self in his music that he and Madame
arrived in Melbourne two days later than
they were expected.
M Dunre was born in Rouen and
represents*the fourth generation of organ-
ists. When he was eight and his young
compatriots were wishing for longer legs
so that they could ride their fathers
bicycles, Marcel also hoped to grow so
that his feet would reach the pedals of
the cathedral organ. Madame Dupre is
also a musician, and originally was one
of her husband’s pupils. The c .™P le
have a daughter, Marguerite, a pianist
who has an appointment to meet her
rnrents in a few months’ time in the
U.S.A. for a series of father-and-daughter
FmMhe notable concert at which she
sang “Salome” for the first time in Aus-
tralia, Marjorie Lawrence chose an un-
usual gown of white mousselme with a
frontispiece of navy-blue taffeta the sam^
contrasting material being used fo
diamond-shaped lapels and edging
the short sleeves, and for stripes that r
obliquely in ever-increasing widths over
the bouffant floor-sweeping skirt. At me
conclusion of “Salome” Miss Lawrence
passed on the applause to accompanist
Felix Wolfes, who had carried
tremendous task of trying to make the
piano do the work of an orchestra.
P The audience garbed itself in anything
from tails and tiaras to tweeds and rugs
for the knees. Edwardian curls and a
silver fox cape of overwhelming magni-
ficence were worn by Mrs. J. L. JNor
moyle. Mrs. Harry Emmerton sat in
the Y front row downstairs, and wldl °£*
trepidation was part and parcel of t
seething crowd in the foyer
the exits after the concert by the tans
on the steps sticking to their positions foi
a close-up of the departing star and her
fl °Mrs S AH. Scott, who attended the
concert in’a honey-colored wrap over a
glitter of lame, was accompanied by her
Haimhter-in-law, Mrs. Alan Scott, wn
for her frock and her long velvet cape
respectively combined Patou-blue with a
rich shade of petunia. Belle Craig was
of the majority who faced the emi y
night in a warm black coat and lit
black hat. The complement for Mrs.
Guy Bakewell’s shaven-lamb coat was
a tiny hat tweaked upon the crown with
preen and grey ribbons. Mrs. oe il l dru
Hefnze who was with her Ormond Pro-
fessor husband, brought to the front tow
of the gallery lily-of-the-valley and an
Edwardian coiffure held in position by
miniature mother-of-pearl flowers.
Babe Didrikson and Charlie Conners
played an exhibition match on Long
Island Country Club links last week. A
large gallery came from Frankston and
from town to watch the play, so that the
club was safe about Babe’s fee and other
expenses plus a bit over —but ss. 6d. per
head was too much for a lot of people.
It was perfect picnic weather, with sun-
shine and no icy winds, so the non-payers
made the best of what offered, those who
had transport following in their vehicles
along the roads that commanded good
views of several fairways. Many pedes-
trians went bush along the fence, which
to some of the agile presented no more
problems than does a rabbit-proof fence
to a determined bunny.
Babe, who is voted a good scout by
her partners, opponents and all her ac-
quaintances, who become her friends as
soon as she meets them, is not only a
shining star among golfers of both sexes,
but is also the perfect sport in the matter
of temperament and lack of conceit, ohe
regards neither greens nor tees as prov-
inces of solemnity and hushed whispers
(though no doubt she would respect the
wishes of other players on this point), and
along the fairways she chats with anyone
who cares for a light-hearted commen-
tary Often with her ball teed up she
would inquire “What’s on the right?
“Trouble,” someone would warn her
“Uh-huh,” Babe would reply, and shed
swipe the ball and miss the trouble.
Among those who followed the match
were the club’s captain, Bill Gilbert, who
was referee, half a dozen or more mem-
bers of the Hiscock family, Harold Pear-
son, from Ringwood, whose suggestion it
was that Babe should play on the links,
General Grimwade, Mrs. Ginner Grey,
whose cardigan was a vivid spot oi. scarlet
upon the horizon, Mrs. R. McKechme
and Mrs. Harris, both from Mornington,
and Dorothy Armstrong. As her hus-
band, George Zaharias, wasn t present,
Babe* had an orthodox caddy. The size
and the weight of her bag is a fitting
match for a 17-stone wrestler.
Mrs. Joan Rosanove’s daughter Peggy
(Athol Shmith photograph) is following
in her mother’s legal footsteps. Earlier this
year, while only 16, she embarked upon
an articled clerk’s course in law, serving
her articles with her mother and attend-
ing the University for lectures on tour
mornings a week. Since leaving C. of .
Girls’ Grammar School last year she has
also studied typing and shorthand to help
her with her work. In Peggy s decision to
study law she exercised a woman’s privi-
lege and changed her mind, for the ambi-
tion she had cherished through most of
her schooldays was to follow m her
father’s profession of medicine.
In golf, as in other sports, youth is
striding forth with colors flying. This
vear the east course at Royal Melbourne
was the scene of the Victorian women s
championships, in which several young
and personable players did particular y
well. By defeating in the finals another
clever player, Burrta Cheney (who was
1936 Victorian and South Australian
schoolgirl champion), youthful Joan
Lewis her first major title Joan s
union mark of three makes her the low-
est handicapped woman in Australia. In
earlier rounds Miss Cheney defeated Mrs.
Sloan Morpeth and Mrs. J. Brownell (an-
other ex-schoolgirl champion when she
was Betty Harper, of Woode i J^:
Lewis put out Betty Kernot and Dr. Betty
Nankivell. Dr. Nankivell had to work
hard to qualify as a result of two play
offs The first was a result of a tie
between herself, Mrs. C. L. Evans and
Mrs. O. H. Coltman. The second play-
off was necessary througha e
he tween Mrs. Evans and Dr. Nankiveii.
The dogs of Melbourne are faced with
doleful times ahead, many baths and
much soap, all the result of their owners
attending the Grand National Ball,
which there was a lucky dip as full of
dog soap as an unpampered pup is of
fleas. Though she owns no d9g, Win
Moran is now thinking about getting one ;
her handfuls of canine cleansers grew
monotonous until Mrs. Bruce Wenzel
presented her with a pair of beribboned
shoe-trees for her trousseau.
Among the committee people who
worked hard for the ball was the secre-
tary, Mrs. Haffee Fern, who canvassed
for donations and some day will write
her memoirs of her adventures in and
out of business premises. Mrs. Geoff
Burston, Mrs. Stanley Hunt, Mollie
Corben (whose white organdie frock was
embroidered With field flowers), Mrs.
W. M. Davidson and Mrs. Basil Fitchett
were among those who had jumped out of
bed on cold, frosty mornings for early-
working bees held to parcel up the dip
properties (not all dog soap ; there were
bottles in plenty, also a five-pound note
and a set of car tyres). Among country
people down for the-races and present at
the ball held at the Australia were the
Mac Falkiners and the Franc Falkiners,
Mrs. Franc echoing the geranium-red of
her velvet frock with bows in her hair.
Ticket secretary Peggy Finkelstein wore
a lovely gown of ivory satin broche with
white feathers swaying about her
shoulders.


Don’t Suffer
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
Personal and Missing Friends.
Re Andrew Thomas Mears Ross.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of the
abovenamed, the son of JAMES ROSS and
CATHERINE ROSS, who left Melbourne, in
the State of Victoria, for New South Wales
about 25 years ago, please communicate with
the undersigned? Failing discovery of his
whereabouts, it is intended to apply to the
Supreme Court of Victoria for declaration of
the presumption of his death.
W. E. C. TREYVAUD,
Solicitor, Chancery House,
485 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
DUNBAR, JANE ROSE (maiden name Thomp-
son), formerly of Dumfries, Scotland, married
Roderick Magnus Dunbar at Glasgow
16/9/1887. Information as to her death or
whereabouts is required. She is entitled to
money in the intestate estate of her late hus-
band, who died at Sydney 16th May, 1929.
Please communicate with the PUBLIC TRUS-
TEE, 14 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN
WOMAN'S MIRROR
A “Bulletin” production
WEEKLY FEATURES:
Special Garden Advice and Hints by Readers.
Piccaninnies’ Pages—the Children’s Storyette Realm.
The Phantom—Serial in Pictures.
Knitting, Needlework and Craftwork Features.
Review of the Latest Books.
Published Weekly. Price 3d.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Across Australia in Daylight
The new air schedules under the in-
terim Commonwealth agreement—it is
for six months pending reorganisation
of services—put a new complexion on
Australian air travel. Next summer it
will be possible to cross Australia three
different ways in daylight.
A Douglas DC3, carrying 21 pas-
sengers, is doing a double return trip
between Brisbane and Sydney in one day.
This has been linked with a one-day re-
turn service by a machine which leaves
Townsville at 8 a.m., delivers its pas-
sengers at Brisbane, and is back in
Townsville at 7.20 p.m. A daily service
leaving Cairns at 6 a.m. and reaching
Sydney at 4.50 p.m. has been inaugu-
rated. You can leave Brisbane, at 7.30
а. and be in Adelaide at 5.45 p.m.
The flying-boat service, which is
available for internal traffic, will carry
passengers from Sydney to Darwin, via
Townsville. Guinea Airways link Dar-
win and Adelaide with a daylight service,
and Perth and Cairns are linked, via the
southern capitals, by a tri-weekly service,
which will enable passengers to leave
Cairns at 6 a.m. and arrive in Perth at
б. p.m. on the third day.
This 4000-mile run is the longest single
aerial route run with modern machines
inside a continent. And there are no
long-distance passenger-carrying services
in, the world which go much faster than
the best of the long Australian runs.
Perth to Melbourne, 1857 miles, is flown
in 13 hours 10 minutes.
Development has now become so rapid
that there will need to be considerable ex-
pansion of ground facilities before long.
Fares and freight rates on small articles
are now nearly down to railway charges.
From Croydon to Paris these times
1200 passengers per day are carried.
Two-thirds are handled by Imperial Air-
ways and French Air Union—the former
with a service every two hours, the latter
with an hourly service.
This gives a fair indication of what
may be expected of air travel in Aus-
tralia at the present rate of development.
“Kaloa”: New Guinea lost one of its
most promising young Patrol Officers
when Neil Elliott was killed at Wanali
with a local constable. Elliott was the
only son of Major-General Elliott
(“Pompey”), most dashing of A.I.F.
leaders. He joined the cadet service in
1936, having been appointed a Patrol
Officer early last year. His headquarters
were at Yapunda, about 40 miles from
headquarters in the far northern Aitape
district, where the natives are a touchy
and unpredictable lot. On patrol in
Wanali, he and his police camped in a
native house, where they were suddenly
attacked. Patrol Officer Shand went out
with a party and rescued and buried the
bodies.
* * '* *
“X.T.”: J. H. Curie, usually tolerant
about his comforts, left Darwin with a
poor opinion of the pub which gave him
shelter. Having spread himself on the
noise from the bar and the delays inci-
dent to one Chinese boy serving 30 guests
at table, the traveller set out on one of
the most expensive taxi rides in his
history—l2so miles to Cloncurry (Q.), at
a shilling a mile, with back fare at the
same rate.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: They have a better way of
dealing with joyriding in New Guinea
than in Australian cities—at least where
the joyrider has a dash of the tarbrush.
One Rabaul taxi-driver, Makis, learnt
this to his cost when he started
out at midnight in Taxicab No. 777,
which should have been lucky, with two
local “marys.” The petrol bill next
morning told the story, the ladies
proved false as they were fair, and the
kiap sent Makis to the calaboose for six
months.
* * * *
“Malaguna”: Well, civilisation has
come to New Guinea at last. The
Native Police, formed in the German time
and re-formed in our own, have now come
under the influence of a musical Admini-
strator, who plays accompaniments at
outstation shivoos; and the result is a
police band. I haven’t heard it yet, but
I have a programme of its performance
at Government House, Rabaul, on
" You'd better mend the sulky some time this Week and deliver that telegram to Flanagan's. It's urgent !”
King’s Birthday: Handel’s “Largo,”
foxtrot “Bing Bang,” “O Sole Mio,”
“Land of Hope and Glory,” “Bright
Eyes” and “Evening Shadows.” And to
think that only a generation ago the
German missionary half-way to Natava
in the Rabaul suburbs used to check
over the cartridges in his magazine be-
fore he opened the door at night to put
the cat out!
* * * *
“Clayfield”: The A.B.C. must have
plenty of easy money for building and
newspapers. Apart from a palace pro-
posed to be put up on the heights of
Darlinghurst, Sydney, Brisbane is to have
its Broadcasting House, with a frontage
of 119 feet and a depth of 140 feet in
Alice-street. It will replace the last of
the fashionable dwellings which used to
face the Botanical Gardens —the old Hart
home which had stood for 60 years. It
will be, too, only a few yards from Parlia-
ment House.
* * * *
“Titre”: Killed in a truck accident, W.
F. Seymour Howe, who was one of the
North’s most versatile and capable sugar
men. He began as a grower, educated
himself in the chemistry of sugar, man-
aged the Mourilyan mill for years and in
1918 took over control of Mulgrave
Central Mill. He represented Australia
at several sugar conferences abroad and
was a leading spirit in the move to start
the manufacture of power alcohol on a
commercial scale.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: A public notice which
might have been worded a trifle more
carefully adorns a hoarding in King’s-
square, opposite to Brisbane’s ornate
£975,000 (marked down from £1,000,000)
City Hall. It runs: “Public Conveniences
For Men Closed During Alterations.
Temporary Accommodation at Main En-
trance, City Hall.”
* * * *
“K.P.”: Queensland’s Education
Department is first in the Australian field
with a comprehensive organisation for
the treatment and cure of child stam-
merers. A special section of speech
therapy attends to 167 children with
major or minor speech defects and to
119 stammerers of varying degrees, drawn
from 10 metropolitan schools. Stam-
merers are invariably bright mentally—
the condition is, % in fact, due primarily
to nervous excitement in which thoughts
are poured out faster than the muscles
which control speech are able to expfess
them. Once the child loses confidence in
its powers of speech-expression, the con-
dition becomes steadily worse; and a
harrowing Sydney example shows that, in
ultra-sensitive cases, it may lead to sui-
cide. The basis of modern treatment is
to ignore the stammer completely, to
encourage spontaneity of expression, and
thereby to rebuild gradually the lost self-
confidence. There are no lessons in the
special classes, only a system of word-
games with other stammerers, and the
skilled teacher to co-operate as friend and
helper.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: If figures do not lie,
Queensland is going ahead by leaps and
bounds. Where employed wage- and
salary-earners in 1929 numbered only
148,340 and unemployed 16,660, the em-
ployed figure in 1939 is 183,000 and the
unemployed figure 8780, including 600
men on full-time relief. The Bureau of
Industry reports that “seldom at this
time of year has so large a proportion
of the State experienced such good pas-
toral conditions,” and that rains in agri-
cultural districts have been well distri-
buted. Midwinter sees the best kind of
conditions for the general sowing of
wheat. But the secondary industries
don’t appear to be going ahead. The
Bureau of Industry remarks that a rising
proportion of women and juveniles is em-
ployed in factories, and that “industry of
that type will not prove economically
stable.” Queensland needs industries for
men, the bureau says.
* * * *
“Burglar’s Improver”: Biime, them
Queensland dicks is over the flamin’
limit. ’Ere’s me can-yin’ on the biz ter
support the boss’s missus an’ kids this
two year till they shoves ’im outa Long
Bay in the winter an’ ’im full of
roomatiz. Nat’rally ’e reckons ’e’ll try a
spot of that there Sunny Queensland wot
the ads. is allers twitterin’ about. Walks
outa the train at Bris. like a gent., an’
then wot? First thing ’e spots is the
ugly dial uv a Sydney dick wot’d framed
’im two year ago, an’ first job ’e takes on
ter meet exes, they lumbers ’im an’ gets
’is fingerprints up from Sydney, an’ now
’e’s got six munce in Boggo-road. Sez
there’s dozens more Sydney reg’lars there,
too, all took in by thishyere flamin’
Sunny Queensland an’ payin’ good money
ter get there fer the winter. Wot sort uv
a towrist biz do yer call that? An’ ain't
it against the flamin’ Constitooshun about
free intercourse among States?
* * * *
“Caledonicus”: Some time ago The
Bulletin printed the pros and cons
of an argument about the quality of
Australian rice grown at Leeton. This
should throw some light on the matter.
Here in New Caledonia a gang of Japa-
nese have a contract for cutting and haul-
ing kauri pine out of the forests. They
pay £lB a ton for Australian rice, as
against £ll a ton for Oriental rice, but
the cheaper variety is good enough for
the native employees only. The Japs
themselves use only the Australian pro-
duct, which they say is equivalent to
the very best rice obtainable in Japan.
They should know, as rice forms 60 p.c.
to 70 p.c. of the food eaten at every meal.
* sfc * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Queensland’s Forgan
Smiths are not sure whether they should
feel pleased or apprehensive over the
breakaway in the Protestant Labor party.
That organisation gave them some
anxious moments in the State and
Federal by-elections, and, not long be-
fore, returned a State member —for
Wynnum. The seceders are alleged to
include most of the contributors to
party funds.


m W£M M£N AND WOM£N
Loss of vitality and premature feeling of old
age are due to failure of certain glanas.
pt.aND TONIO TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will definite y
&ise V" ba S h 6 ln §.ff™'T'HellZ*»«
particulars ffTthis amazing NEW treatment.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 Georgre St., Sydney
821
gland
TONIC
TABLfTS
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur, short-
wave and experimental radio.
Subscriptions are 18/6 per year In
Australia, acceptable at “Tbe Bulletin
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Los
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of
Th/following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would* normally appear in July and
Copies* are to subscribers direct
Read regularly and keep in
advance of the times.
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
r a<fio magazines—on the bookstall
to day. sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure oJ
your copy!
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Accumulator Maintenance.
Weakest link in the country user’s
battery-operated receiver has until quite
recently been the filament, or “A sup-
ply. In those receivers incorporating the
1.4-volt valves, the dry cells have been
designed to allow equal life for both A
and “B” supplies. Other types of battery
receivers, requiring a wet cell or accumu-
lator for filament supply, need care in
maintenance, particularly where the accu-
mulator is doing a double job and
operating a vibratory “B” supply in addi-
tion to the filaments. They can be used
advantageously only close handy to a
charging station.
All types of battery receivers have
their advantages, and the following main-
tenance points deal with the upkeep of
acid accumulators.
It is not sufficient merely to discharge
and recharge the accumulator ; it must
be treated carefully if long life is ex-
pected. All too often the accumulator
is expected to stand up continuously to
a higher rate of discharge than the rate
for which it was designed. Yet the
modern accumulator of good quality is
capable of standing a remarkably high
rate of discharge without much injury,
provided that the period is relatively
short. A golden rule for the man depend-
ing upon his accumulator for radio re-
ception is never to let the normal dis-
charge rate exceed about a fiftieth of the
total capacity.
The accumulator with massed plates is
not intended to be subjected to continu-
ous heavy loads. The illustration shows
what is likely to happen with ill-use,
neglect and overcharging. Overdischarg-
ing or overcharging will cause disintegra-
tion of the plates and the deposit of
sediment at the bottom of the con-
tainer. If such is the case, and the user
is confident that such treatment does not
lie at home, inquiries should be made
at the charging station. By far the
greater proportion of short-lived cells
are ruined because of persistent over-
charging.
Undercharging aggravates the trouble,
as the cells are fighting a losing battle
against excessive demands and msur-
ficent reserves. In such cells sulphate
forms over the surface of the negative
plate. Heavy discharges, such as would
be caused by the sudden short-circuiting
of the accumulator, are generally re-
sponsible for buckled plates. Careless
dropping of a metal screwdriver or length
of heavy bare wire across the terminals
is a frequent cause of this trouble.
If the level of the acid is allowed to
become so low that the tops of the plates
are exposed, sulphation will start in the
form of a hard white deposit on the ex-
posed portions. It is possible to cure
sulphation to some extent by giving the
accumulator a slow but lengthy charge,
but if the sulphation is too far gone
new plates are the only remedy.
In no circumstances should a dis-
charged accumulator be allowed to stand
for long without a recharge. When each
cell shows under a voltage test thal it
registers below two volts, it is time to
act. If one cell is reading low and the
others normal, the low-reading cell is
most likely to be faulty and in need
of attention. It is a good rule, even it
an accumulator is standing unused, to
put it on charge at intervals of not more
than three months. Terminals should be
kept clean and well greased with vaseline,
and moisture or dust should not be
allowed to collect along the tops of the
cells.
In practice the only effective way of
keeping a check on an accumulator is
to use a hydrometer frequently for
measurement of the specific gravity. This
may vary for different makes, but the
figure is usually stated, either on the
case- or in printed instructions. A:fter
recharging, make certain that the cells
register the correct figure, and recharge
as soon as the specific gravity reads in
the region of 1170. Readings of density
taken just after the addition of distilled
water to the cells are unreliable. Con-
tents of the cells near the top are nearly
pure water for some time after the addi-
tion, and it is only after a prolonged
charge that the liquid acquires a uniform
density. The following table may help
in determining the cause of some of the
more obscure faults in cells:
Faults.
Excessive sediment,
mainly from positive
plate. Excessive gas-
sing.
Light-grey negatives.
Low density of acid.
White sediment. Buck-
ling of plates.
Rapid loss of
charge. Immediate
gassing on charge.
Yellow deposit on
plates.
Large bits of active
material dislodged.
Sulphated negatives.
Sulphated positives.
Cures.
Overcharging, or
charging at too high
a rate. Note. —An oc-
casional prolonged
charge does a cell
good.
Undercharging,
whether too low a
current or too short
a time.
Internal short cir-
cuit. Cure by clean-
ing out sediment.
Impure acid or
water used for mix-
ing. Scrape off and
renew acid after thor-
oughly rinsing plates.
Level of acid
allowed to remain
below plates. Heavy
short circuit.
If at top, acid level
has been allowed to
drop. Too strong
acid. Standing dis-
charged too long. Per-
sistent undercharging.
Impure acid. Too
strong acid. Too high
a temperature.
D. B. K.
Radio as a Profession.
[This Page receives many letters from
youngsters and parents, seeking information on
the best way to make a start in radio. this
article, condensed from “Radio” (U.S.A.), deals
with the subject from the American angle, but
much of it applies to any country, and the
advice given is very sound.]
Every once in a while some amateur
laments the fact that he has spent a lot
of time and money on radio, and he has
nothing to “show” for his efforts. During
the past twenty years or more, the writer
has observed the progress of hundreds of
amateurs. Some of these young men
made the most out of radio opportunities
that came along ; others did not. Some
people will argue that an amateur is just
an amateur and that his radio activities
should be regarded simply as a hobby.
However, the young amateur in high
school, college, or who has even started
to work in some field other than radio
should give serious thought to the possi-
bilities radio offers as a profession.
It is best to decide as early as possible
just what one wants to do in radio—to
be a commercial operator, executive,
engineer, etc. Assuming that an amateur
intends to become an engineer, a uni-
versity education and a degree are
essential. Times have changed, yeais
ago experience in radio counted more
than education. In the old days a radio
engineer was expected to design trans-
mitters, receivers, aerials, masts, power
plants and even buildings. To-day, all
these individual branches have become
so far developed that engineers must
specialise on one subject.
The most important matter in a college
education applied to radio is mathematics.
The modern physicist, scientist and
engineer think in terms of mathematics.
Aside from the higher maths., including
advanced algebra, geometry and calculus,
the supplementary subjects will depend
upon what one intends to specialise in.
The specialist in acoustics will be required
to design broadcast studios, amplifiers,
loudspeakers and microphones. The pros-
pective valve engineer should study metal-
lurgy, chemistry, thermodynamics and
physics as well as electrical engineering.
Transmitter and receiver engineers have
to study high and ultra-high frequency
alternating currents in addition to elec-
trical engineering.
Not only from manufacturers of radio
and electronic apparatus has the qualified
engineer a possibility of employment
motion picture studios, communication
companies, airways, broadcasting com-
panies, teaching positions and the civil
service all offer openings.
The radio engineer with a knowledge
of one or two foreign languages has an
advantage when foreign openings o.ccur.
Spanish is a good language to know in
this connection, as there is bound to be
considerable expansion in South America.
A knowledge of French or German will
help to keep one abreast of European
developments in European technical pub-
lications. As well as the amateur radio
publications, the radio amateur should
read regularly good trade papers relating
to electronics, electrical engineering and
communications. A real opportunity that
every amateur, student or engineer has
before him is the chance to develop some-
thing new and valuable ; an improvement
that will make a worth-while patent. The
well-known regenerative patent was
obtained by Armstrong while he was still
a university student.
C. R. L.
Those Ultra-short Waves.
The application of portion of the
ultra-short-wave regions to television has
heightened interest in these sections.
For technical reasons television services
must be established on wave-lengths
below 10 metres. Thus the image detail
is materially improved, but the distance
over which the radiations extend usefully
is limited. An explanation of the cause
will help the reader to understand the
behavior of waves of approximately
seven metres. This wave-length has been
chosen in England, America and Europe
for television programmes, and television
transmission on similar wave-lengths will
eventually be undertaken in Australia.
At present Sydney has one ultra-short-
wave * broadcaster in regular service,
A.W.A., operating VK2MA on 42 mega-
cycles with relayed programmes of
VK2ME’s 31-metre transmissions. Re-
ports are received occasionally of dis-
tant reception of these seven-metre trans-
missions, but long-distance reception of
seven-metre signals is quite infrequent,
and is due to unusual ionosphere con-
ditions reflecting back to earth waves
which normally are only useful at close
Fig. 1. _ Reducing the wave-length results
in the reflecting layer being unable to
bend the wave sufficiently for reflection
to earth.
s
range. Readers accustomed to reception
of such overseas short-wave stations as
London and Berlin naturally associate all
short waves with very long ranges, but
below 10 metres the useful range ordi-
narily becomes about 10 miles. By using
specially-designed aerial systems for
transmission this range can be extended
in two or more directions to at least 50
miles.
The reason for the normally limited
ran°e of ultra-short waves can be readily
explained. The belt of electrified atmo-
sphere surrounding the earth causes the
wave to bend and return to earth again,
and acts just as a reflector. Fig. 1 illus-
trates this point. As the wave-length is
reduced the bending of the wave be-
comes less and less. At 30 metres, for
example, the reflection is fairly sharp,
but it is much less at 15 metres. Some-
where around 10 metres, the reflection
ceases altogether or is very spasmodic.
After this decrease in wave-length, the
bending of the wave is insufficient for
reflection, and the signals are lost
entirely.
Fig. 2 illustrates “optical-range recep-
tion The waves, leaving point A, radiate
in straight lines from the transmitting
aerial, both in the upper atmosphere and
along the ground. If there is no reflec-
tion from the upper atmosphere, position
B will hear nothing from A. Because of
the earth’s curvature, the transmission
from A has left the earth altogether. To
hear the signal B would need to be com-
paratively close to A; otherwise, in
optical range.
As previously mentioned, special
aerial systems can be used to cause con-
centration in desired directions, with an
apparent bending of the wave to the
curvature of the earth up to certain dis-
tances and under certain conditions.
The localised nature of seven-metre
television provides a service which is
free from interference with other stations
on the same wave-length beyond the
range. It is therefore possible to have
Fig. 2. —Position B, out of sight of A,
owing to earth curvature, will not receive
any signals from A if there is no reflec-
tion of the wave.
a number of transmitters all working on
the same wave-length in different loca-
tions without interference with one an-
other. The same rulings as for seven-
metre transmission and reception apply
in general to the 56 megacycle (five-
metre) band used by experimenters, and
much of the work on 56mc. is proving
of great value in the field of television.
D. B. K.
Amateur Chatter.
The use of an “S” meter at a distant
receiving position for accurate determina-
tion of aerial efficiency is as important at
56mc. as at any other frequency. VK2IQ,
of Burwood, N.S.W., has recently cali-
brated his receiver “S” meter to give
correct readings of gain in decibels, and
made readings of the transmissions from
the new co-axial aerial system in use at
writer’s station. With the directivity
centred on Burwood, the signal level was
shown as around 40db. above receiver
noise when using 100 watts input. That
aerial gain is of more value than power
input increase at the transmitter end was
proved by the reading taken for an in-
crease to 150 watts at VK2NO. The gain
was only I.6db. In R strengths, the
signal level with 100 watts input was
RlO at maximum directivity, dropping off
to R 6 with the aerial array turned “off”
for minimum directivity.
VK2AEY, of Taree, N.S.W., who is
interested in 56mc. communication in
conjunction with VK2AKI, is now using
a superhet converter ahead of his
amateur band superhet. He will soon be
transmitting with crystal-controlled C.W.
and ’phone on a frequency of 57,560 kc.
The 56mc. superhet receiver at
VK2NO has a seven-turn aerial coil
tightly coupled to the 1851 R.F. stage
grid circuit. The feeders from the con-
centric line are connected by clips across
this coil. One clip was accidentally
knocked off the wire whilst listening to a
weak signal from VK2ACR in Ryde,
N.S.W., and the signal strength immedi-
ately increased very considerably. Ex-
amination of other signals on the air at
the time showed the same gain. There
appears to be an incorrect match to the
receiver from the 64-ohm line with both
sides connected across the present
coupling coil. Apparent remedy would be
to use a single-turn coil coupled to the
“cold” end of the grid coil, with conse-
quent retracking of the grid circuit. No
doubt a useful accessory for correct line
termination would be an aerial im-


You Can’t Deny
A FACT!
The coverage, of course, of
6PM Perth .
500 watts
6AM
Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Pertli
[a**Z
To obtain your share
of this market and
secure your future
stock
and recommend
pedance matching network before the
K.F. stage.
Latest Sydney station to blossom out
on 56mc. is VK2ZH, of North Bondi.
Signal is crystal-controlled on 57,500 kc.
with excellent ’phone. Transmitter line-
up is a 6A6 crystal oscillator with 80-
A le <Sv£ ryStal quadrupling to 20 metres.
A 6L6G serves as 10-metre doubler, and
e hnal is a single 808 as 56mc. power
doubler with 50 watts input. The regu-
ar amateur-band supernet is used with
/6 oscillator at 10 metres and 6J7 mixer
at hve metres. Despite the fact that no
external aerial is yet in use, VK2ZH
nears the main stations around Sydney,
including VK2LZ, 60 miles distant, and
gets out equally well.
It is understood that the fading seven-
ep^°.ny si B nal mentioned in B.
j° /b l 39 originated at a Sydney factory.
As an inside aerial was used, the fading
caused by the metal structure of the
building gave the impression of DX.
Ihe transmitter under test is destined for
one of the defence services.
VK2CG, Harry Chinner, 56mc. partici-
pant_An Pioneer tests between Sydney and
tne Blue Mountains a few years ago, is
again resident in Sydney, and is expected
on the band again in the near future.
This well-engineered amateur-band
transmitter is installed at the head-
quarters of Waverley Radio Club,
Sydney, and signs VK2BV on C.W. and
telephony on the main DX bands. The
line-up consists of a 6L6G crystal oscil-
lator with crystal switching for a choice
of four. The crystals are enclosed in a
thermostatically-controlled oven. Then
follows a 6L6G doubler, 6L6G alternate
doubler or buffer, and an 807 which is
also an alternate doubler-buffer. The
final stage, not yet completed, will con-
sist of push-pull 809’s. Provision has
been made in the rack for future addi-
tion of modulator and speech amplifier
Waverley is Australia’s oldest radio club.
An old hand returned to the 56mc
band in Sydney on 2/7/’39 when Dili
Cotterell, VK2ZN, of Dundas, appeared
with a strong C.W. signal at the H.F.
end of the band. Contacts were effected
with VKs 2WJ, 2ABC and 2NO, but ap-
parent receiver trouble permitted good
reception only from VK2WJ, despite the
1 act that the three stations mentioned are
closely located in Maroubra and Waver-
ley. The mystery was cleared up on the
night of 3/7/’39, when VK2NO was again
in communication with VK2ZN, this
time with an R 8 ’phone report. A photo-
graphic floodlight stand, approximately
nine feet in length, placed near the re-
ceiver at VK2ZN, was the cause of the
trouble. This absorbed much of the
signal strength, being adjacent to the
eight-feet vertical inside receiving aerial.
When this unwanted reflector was placed
behind the- receiving aerial, the signals
increased from R 3 to RB.
There is no doubt that the lower fre-
quencies are gradually returning to DX
conditions of a few years ago, and with
present-day receiving and transmitting
equipment still better results are to be
expected. Writer took a look around the
80-metre band at 6 p.m. on 2/7/’39, and
a telephony station first assumed to be a
ZL turned out to be an Alaskan. He was
K7GNN, calling “CQ 75,” and his signal
rode over receiver noise level at R 6. A
careful search revealed a number of
weak carriers, evidently from Americans.
ZLs are able to maintain fairly regular
’phone contact across the Pacific on 80
metres, but it is a tougher job for VKs
During the period the K 7 was heard,
ZLs were very weak and no VKs were
heard. Evidently conditions were similar
to those in winter nights on 40 metres.
he keen key and ’phone man should
plan tor the lower frequencies for the
next few years. Recent tests between
England and America on 160 metres re-
sulted in a number of good contacts.
VK2NO.
Queensland Short-wave
Loggings.
Daytime reception of all the Euro-
pean regulars continues good ; there are
south Americans also, and a few from
U.S.A. Americans that can often be
heard around 10.30 a.m. on the 31-metre
bands are W2XAF, W2XAD, WIXK
WBXK on 25 metres and
W3XL on 16 metres can easily be found
Between 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. the best
American is now W6XBE on 19.57
metres, but strength does not equal that
of the German 19-metre stations. After
2 p.m. stations audible are W3XAI
WIXK, TGWA, TIPG, HPSJ, COCH
and XEWW.
Plenty of signals are now in evidence
on the 49-metre band during the morn-
Jng, ' one of the best being on 48.8
metres, but no callsign has yet been
identified. English is spoken, and there
are many advertisements. The station is
probably the new Manila, P. 1., trans-
mitter which has been heard well at night
before 8 p.m. There is considerable
Morse interference. Penang gives its
wave-length as 49.3 metres, and opens
at 8.40 p.m. with a very strong signal.
Good reception is also possible above
49 metres at night, three stations,
probably YUs, being heard between 50
and 51 metres from 10 p.m. Sixty metres
is also steadily improving. Between 1
p.m and 1.30 p.m. on 24/6/’39, I heard
both sides of a 10-metre contact between
W6FRF and ZL2BT, who at 1.30 p.m.
mentioned that the band was “likely to
close up at any minute.” His signal
dropped, and when he changed over to
the American again not a sound could be
heard. The W 6 had been R 9 fifteen
minutes earlier.
K. B. G. (Thargomindah).
[The improving conditions on the
lower frequencies are noticeable
generally, several American amateurs
now being audible on telephony on 75
metres in Sydney around 6 p.m. Ac-
cording to the sunspot theory, the lower
frequencies are now on the up-grade, and
the higher and ultra-high frequencies
may be expected to deteriorate steadily
for the next five years.— Ed.]
American U.-S.-W.
Observations.
Perry Ferrell writes from Linwood,
New Jersey (U.S.A.):
T° D.B.K., —I have always followed
your activities on the ultra-high-frequen-
cies, and so was particularly interested in
your references to the reception at inter-
vals of probable overseas signals around
42mc. That observed at 3.55 p.m. your
time would, I consider, be from Europe
and probably the Paris television station
signing on for an early-morning trans-
mission. It operates on 41.990mc. The
American television stations are now
operating on 49.750mc. W2XBS, New
York City, W9XZV, Chicago, 111.,
W2XVT, Passaic, N.J., and W6XAO, Los
Angeles, Cal., are the only television
stations at the time of writing, but there
is a large list of u.-h.-f. broadcasting
stations in operation near 42mc.
Regarding the amateur five-metre
band, the sporadic E reflections have been
quite good again this year in U.S.A., and
the band was open at this location in
May and June, signals being heard from
Florida, S.. Dakota, Illinois, Michigan,
Indiana, Wisconsin and Minnesota. It
has been noted this year that the ap-
parent skip distance has been about 200
miles longer than last year, and that the
maximum of short skip causing five
metres to open up has been in a southern
direction. With crystal-controlled signals
and increased power, plus improvements
in receivers, signals have been of much
better quality.
Antennas are playing a large part in
the year’s DX, and most of the stations
are using three-, four-, five-, and six-
element arrays. My receiving array is
a four-element affair. There are plenty
of Ws’s this year, but they have not
reached the eastern seaboard vet
WSAJG, WSML and WSEHM are tee
leaders in this district. Higher power is
noticeable with many stations, varying
from 100 to 500 watts. y 8
W6QLZ uses a turnstile array for trans-
mission and a Sterba curtain for recep-
tion. There are three different receivers,
including a 5-10 Skyrider and a Super-
Infra.
I was particularly interested in that
reception of a station on five metres 160
miles distant from Sydney. That is a
perfect example of lower atmosphere-
bending, instances of which we have had
over here on the following experimental
broadcasters: W2XMN, 124 miles dis-
tant; WCNY, 110 miles; W2XHG, 102
miles ; W2XBF, 107 miles ; W2ZJI, 104
miles; and W2XQO, 104 miles. I have
also heard a large number of police
stations between 100 and 130 miles dis-
tant. This lower atmosphere-bending is
not only affecting the seven- and five-
metre bands, but extends up to 11 metres.
A number of stations on 10 metres have
been heard between 50 and 75 miles.
I wish to compare notes on trans-
pacific seven-metre reception, and would
like to hear of any instances of signals
received in Australia.
[A useful station for American u.-h.-f.
observers is VK2MA, operated in Syd-
ney by Amalgamated Wireless on 42mc.,
mainly at week-ends, with simultaneous
relays of the programmes of VK2ME (31
metres). — Ed.]
Eveready Batteries for
Portables.
The introduction early this year of the
new 1.4-volt valves has already resulted
in the release by Australian radio manu-
facturers of special receivers giving ex-
cellent all-round performance with very
low “A” and “B” current drain. Interest
centres mainly around the dry-cell-
operated portable receivers, and in anti-
cipation of the trend the Eveready Co.
has released two new dry batteries
especially designed for 1.4-volt portables.
They are a 1.5-volt “A” battery and a
45-volt “B” unit.
The “A” battery (type number PRB) is
a 1.4-volt wax top dry battery fitted with
screw terminals. Overall height, includ-
ing terminals, is 4 9-16 in., length 5 3-16 in.
and width 2 1 l-16in. Weight is 31b. loz.
Approximate service life is as follows:
tnitial Drain. Approx. Useful Life.
200 ma. 300 hours.
25 0 » 220
300 „ no ”
It should be noted particularly that
these figures are approximate only. They
are based on a minimum useful voltage
of one volt, though very good results
have been obtained from 1.4-volt valve
receivers, using an “A” voltage of only
.8 volt.
The “B” battery (type number PR4S)
is a 45-volt unit provided with Fahren-
stock clips (tappings, negative and 45
volts). Height, including terminals, is
approximately s|in., length 4}in. and
width 2fin. Weight is approximately 21b.
lOoz.
The following figures, which give an
indication of the useful service life that
can be expected from the PR4S unit,
are based on normal usage of up to eight
hours per day, and are approximate only:
Initial Drain. Useful Service Life.
sma. 380 hours.
6 „ 310 „
7 „ 260 „
B’> 220 „
9 „ 200 „
Thus, a typical four-valve receiver
drawing 250 ma. “A” current and Bma.
of ‘B” current would give approximately
220 hours of operation before battery
replacements were required. A further
attractive feature is that both “A” and
“B” batteries would run down together.
Complete battery equipment, compris-
ing two PR4S units and one PRB, would
weigh only 81b. soz.
D. B. K.
"Radio" (U.S.A.) for June.
The current issue of “Radio” has a
complete description by W9IUJ and
W9BNX of the “Ultra-sensitive 56mc
Receiver,” outlined B. 17/5/’39. The
circuit arrangement includes some in-
teresting points in u.-h.-f. receiver design,
among them a voltage-regulator unit for
maintenance of plate voltages at constant
level. It is stated that this precaution is
not really essential in this concentric-
type receiver because of the use of the
iu a l cor P osc ihator, with which consider-
a-ur lttitude in plate-voltage is permis-
sible before frequency shift occurs. The
idea would be useful, however, in most
u.-h.-f. receivers.
Technical articles include “A One-kilo-
}Y at J r J^ uto " res °nator Transmitter,” by
W6UF and W6CHE, who are directors
of the Eitel-McCullough Co., makers of
, mac valves. This transmitter is the
latest in rapid band-change transmitters,
ne various circuits being push-button-
tuned by small electric motors. The
original transmitter is responsible for the
excellent ’phone signal signing W6USA at
tne San Francisco World’s Fair. WBJK
deals further with multi-wire-type aerials,
rank Jones shows how to obtain bias
for A.M.C., and Raymond P. Adams
describes a band-pass ’phone superhet.
Other articles are: “A 1939 Model 400-
watt Transmitter,” “New Way to Revolve
the Close-spaced Rotary” and “Remote
Control of the Electron-coupled Oscil-
lator.’ Subscription to “Radio” is 18s.
6d per year, acceptable at The Bulletin
othce, 252 George-street, Sydney. Copies
are mailed direct from the publishers in
u.S.A. and not from the Sydney office
The Question Box.
,lo h A tw Vs battey y Pentode of the 33
nFf-ii °, nd ould }! ke to llse it in a modulated
oscillator for radio service work. Please give
details and diagram of a suitable oscillator? —
In the circuit illustrated the oscillator is self-
modulating at a suitable audio frequency by
the charging and discharging of the grid con-
denser. It is similar to the triode “squeeger”
oscillator but much more stable. For general
use the coil LI and condenser Cl will cover
2 broadcast band, but other ranges can be in-
by Aii JSmg a plu S-j n coil or switching
system. All necessary values are indicated in
the diagram.


THERE’S NO
s mn ‘ H
„ AiC'» a
6 u ■ •
«er * 1
r oP>>^
V
e s
/.
The way to feel fit and well every day is to take a daily glass of
Wolfe’s Schnapps —it sends a rich glow of health right through t e
system. It invigorates cleanses the kidneys and
stream. \ : •
IS
Wolfe’s Schnapps contains unique medicinal
properties found in no other spirit a
highly recommended to tone up the system,
it hot with lemon at bedtime and you ~' :11
bright and fresh in the morning.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
As Good For Women As For Men
, l(e ,
V/° Ue atvd _ vs Veep a
M** y
\arg e
bote
botoe
tbe


NTS
LYS
proof.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
T?? ... . . . „
W;'SMiSS
sk
*«•
vAgy.;.- -.-. '■ *'***#«
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WERE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
New Year in Wool.
“Ghanam”: The wool season ended at
Brisbane sales with French, U.S.A., Bel-
gian, Japanese and German buyers help-
ing to push prices up on a lively market.
The London sales are down for July 11,
but no further auctions will be held in
Australia till the opening of the new
season in Sydney on August 28.
Meantime, conditions are brighter than
they have been for over a year. In
France, there is a considerable develop-
ment in the export trade. Britain’s export
of tops during the first quarter of this
year showed an improvement of 30 p.c.
over last year. Shipments to China, held
up by the war, have been resumed. There
has been a surprising increase in exports
to Sweden, . and Germany bought
500,0001 b. more in the three months than
in the same period of 1938. Most of the
increase, however, has been in the lower
counts —44’s to 50’s crossbred, types suit-
able for uniforms.
The soundest indication is the rise in
tops prices, which invariably spells a
coming rise in raw-wool values. This
time it adds Id. to all lines except fine
wools, which have improved
Japan is to buy two-thirds of, its wool
needs from us during the new season,
and Germany and Italy are both buying
whenever they are able.
Sydney Ram Sales.
“Bungaree”: Good sheep sold readily
at good prices, but there was little de-
mand for average rams and none for
poor stuff. Compared with last year,
top prices were higher and averages
showed a slight increase, but 1938 was the
worst year since the depression.
Studmasters sent large numbers of
rams, but some were a poor class of
animal. Many would have been hard
to sell in a boom year. \ . . •
From any point of view, the 1939
sales were a well-deserved triumph for
Haddon Rig. The stud’s sheep were out-
standing, and buyers competed for them
eagerly. The top-price ram brought
850 guineas. He had size, great depth and
covering full of character,, symmetrical
development, a fine head ; and he was a
better bargain at the price than many
rams sold at five guineas. Other Had-
don Rig rams sold at 500, 400, 380, 350
and 320 guineas.
Bundemar had a small but select offer-
ing, and the popularity of the King
Charles blood was evident in the Corm
petition. Bundemar has'adhered more
closely to type than probably any other
stud. Its top price of . 710 guineas was
next best to the Haddon Rig top.
A number of S.A. breeders sent sheep,
and the Koonoonas in particular were in
demand. Most of these were extra-
strong-woolled rams. One was stronger-
woolled than some of the Corriedales,
his fleece a bold 56’s.
Big - framed, strong - constitutioned,
strong-woolled sheep sold well on the
whole, but the fine wools had a thin time.
Many of these latter were faulty—slab-
sided, small, uneven in covering, short
in staple and generally lacking in con-
stitution. One weakness that has become
increasingly prevalent is bad backs. A
large percentage of rams were very weak
on top, peaked withers and backs show-
ing a decided dip or hollow.
' A welcome feature was the increased
number of sale-rams accompanied by a
shearing certificate. This provision
should be compulsory.
Corriedale sales were patchy, and
buyers scarce. A Cullingral ram brought
250 guineas, and others from that stud
175 and 155 guineas. Average prices
were the lowest for years, and many sheep
were passed in. There was a wide range
of types, and many were lacking in good
fleece characteristics. Some were so fine-
woolled as to be indistinguishable from
Polwarths, while others carried a loose,
uneven fleece with staple formation that
leaned too far toward the ancestral long-
wools.
British breeds were a mixed lot. There
was a fair demand, only for anything
showing quality. There were no fancy
"'Ow about a game of draughts, ’ Erb ?”
prices, and, with the exception of Dorset
Horns, averages, were generally low.
Border Leicesters were plentiful, and
there were many Southdowns Tor sale.
Zebus in the North.
“Mookau”: R: G. Casey, Minister in
Charge of Scientific Research, has be-
come an advocate of the zebu. “Experi-
ments with zebu-cross cattle in North
Queensland,” he says, “have shown that
the hybrids-are much better adapted .to
northern environment, and finished: car-
casses can be produced ‘ a year earlier
than those from British breeds at.equal
weight.” He thinks that the zebus are
“the obvious solution” for the North
since they have proved themselves par-
ticularly well adapted to tropical condi-
tions.
It is all right in theory, but to encour-
age the zebu is to eventually make a
present of the Australian future chilled-
meat export trade to the Argentine.
The British buyer is accustomed to
certain classes of beef. He likes his
roasts to approximate as closely as pos-
sible to the beef he is used to —in tex-
ture, shape, fatting and color. And if
Mr. Casey can produce the British
buyers’ favorite types from an infusion
of humped blood he must have some new
recipe.
Our original cattle were nearly all
Bengals, but the British breeds gradually
cleaned them out. As for the adaptabil-
ity of British breeds to the North, Short-
horns from country just above the tropic
at Alice Springs frequently top the
market at Adelaide sales, and some of
the best of the remainder are Shorthorns
from the Barkly Tableland.
Recently the C.S. and LR. reported
that North Queensland chilling beef fat-
tened and killed in the tropics was at its
best when prepared in summer, and that
its storage life was two or three weeks
longer than that of beef from the tem-
perate regions.
One thing northern beef-breeding does
need is the continual introduction of
fresh blood. If Mr. Casey wishes to
develop the industry he can best do it
by encouraging a steady run of herd
bulls from southern studs and the im-
provement of coastal fattening pastures.
If there were a few thousand square
miles of northern coastal country in the
condition of Brice Henry’s Tully fatten-
ing farm, the business would soon
expand. As it is, it is the methods which
are at fault and not the cattle.
Australia’s Wheats.
“Yarrunga”: Bencubbin, the leading
W.A. variety, was the most popular wheat
in Australia last year, occupying 1,712,180
acres, or 1L79 p.c. of the total area sown
in the mainland States.
Then followed Ranee, 1,568,747 acres,
10.8 p.c.; Nabawa, 1,481,401 acres, 10.19
p.c.; Ghurka, 1,448,513 acres, 9.09 p.c.;
Ford, 1,206,361 acres, 8.3 p.c.; Dundee,
1,192,607 acres, 8.2 p.c.
Of the varieties included in the first
ten (representing 72 p.c. of the area) four
—Nabawa, Gluyas, Free Gallipoli and
Aussie (Merredin) —have been discarded
from N.S.W. official recommendations,
and two others —Ranee and Ghurka —are
only included pending something better
being developed for South-western
Riverina.
The first ten are soft or weak-flour
wheats with the exception of the medium-
hard Dundee. Good drought resistance
is a notable characteristic of the three
varieties at the top of the list. Ranee is
susceptible to all major diseases, while
the other five, sown to more than a mil-
lion acres each have the merit of resist-
ance to flagsmut, and Ford of moderate
resistance to stem rust.
The only original Farrer wheat re-
corded was Florence (112,826 acres,
mostly in Queensland), which occupied
nineteenth place. It is still the best
disease-resistant variety in commercial
cultivation.
Fruit-sucker Moths.
A shout for help from Queensland
How can we combat a large moth that
attacks all kinds of fruit, including citrus?
It is about 2in. long, brown, with
mottled outer wings, a bright orange under-
neath, with large black spots. It flies at
night.
The Agricultural Department could only
advise us to go out at night with a light
and large flat pieces of board and swat
the creature.
As the moths can fly like aeroplanes and
we have not cats’ eyes or are not night
birds the thing’s impossible.
Unfortunately the method suggested is
the only known one.
.Slices of ripe, moist fruit such as
banana or pawpaw might be exposed in
the orchard in the late afternoon —fast-
ened to small boards hung in open parts
of the trees. The baits should then be
revisited at intervals after dark and
examined momentarily with an electric
torch.
Perhaps a very bright motor lamp
from a car run into the orchard might
help to collect the pests for swatting.
Concerning Tomatoes.
“Mac”: Tomato-growers with visions
of big cheques have a lot to do before
the money is stowed away.
_ Sterilise the soil for seedboxes. Spread
it on a sheet of iron over a fire or thor-
oughly saturate it with boiling water in
which a few flakes of permanganate of
potash have been dissolved. Use this soil
about the plants when setting them in
the open garden.
Next there’s the treatment of pests.
Tomato mites destroy foliage and fruit,
and are particularly troublesome in glass-
houses in August and in the open beds
in November. Spray plants with lime-


BIG REDUCTION
in Grained Calf
BROGUES
32/6
reduced to
24/6
B 162
Strong Brown Pig-grained Calf Skin Brogues greatly reduced.
Made with heavy double soles and full wide welts. Calf linings.
120 pairs to be sold out after half-yearly stocktaking.
Full and half sizes. Price, 24/6 per pair.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
Telegraphic Address: ‘‘ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
Power that Protects the soil
—and Your Income . . .
if
v;
*
Traction to pull without packing the soil
Broad tracks like bridge planks support the “Caterpillar” track-type
tractor’s properly-distributed weight. Riding on these plank-like surfaces
“Caterpillar” treads over loose soil, sand and mud without digging in
and without harmful packing of the soil.
More than 80% of “Caterpillar’s” engine power is turned into steady
drawbar pull and it takes hilly or level fields in its stride.
With a “Caterpillar” track-type Tractor you are able to get on to your
paddocks earlier after rain. While your neighbours are waiting you are
working and earning. Operating costs are the lowest on record. See
your dealer and ask for an “on the spot” demonstration.
CATERPILLAR
4
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
Caterpillar
DISTRIBUTORS
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty.,
Ltd.,
102-124 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane, S.l.
P.O. Box 21, South
Brisbane.
Victoria & Tasmania:
William Adams &
Company Limited,
521-523 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
G.P.O. Box No. 4304,
Melbourne, C.l.
New South Wales:
Waugh & Josephson Pty. (
Ltd.,
Unwin's Bridge Road,
St. Peters, Sydney.
Showroom:
311 Castlereagh Street.
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor
Company,
231-239 Flinders Street,
Adelaide.
G.P.O. Box 524 E,
Western Australia:
Wigmores Limited,
613 Wellington Street,
Perth.
Box 883, G.P.O.
l7ie~fyxtl!e&rL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
sulphur (1-100) or lib. sulphur dissolved
in 12 gallons of water for the open
garden ; dust glasshouse plants with a
mixture’ of even parts of hydrated lime
and flowers of sulphur.
Tomato caterpillars gouge holes in the
fruit and make them unsuitable for
market or home use. Use a mixture of
4oz. arsenate powder dissolved in a kero.-
tin of water as a spray, or dust with one
part arsenate of lead powder mixed with
four parts kaolin or hydrated lime. Apply
when the first flowers appear, and there-
after every 14 days. Fruit must be wiped
before marketing or use.
Green vegetable bugs attack the well-
grown fruit and suck the life from the
plants. The eggs are laid in September
and the young bugs take wing in October.
Dust with pyrethrum powder, especially
under the leaves; and also treat the soil
about the base with the powder.
If these are attended to the grower
should have some coins to jingle in his
pockets.
Hints for the Farm.
“Kyamba”: When fitting a horse-
collar see that it doesn’t rest on the neck
in front of the withers; that it bears
evenly on and over the shoulderblade ;
that depth between the throat and the
neck will admit the hand and wrist; that
the space between the neck and the inside
of the body of the collar will admit the
fingers only. Keep collars clean and
brush linings free of hair and dirt. Regu-
larly groom and rub the neck and
shoulders.
“Lactis”: Three pounds of Portland
cement stirred into a gallon of skim milk
will make a cheap and lasting paint for
farm use. Coloring can be added. Keep
the mixture constantly stirred while paint-
ing. The coat will harden in five or six
hours and is waterproof.
“Dungeness”: A water-lifting plant on
the Dalkeith property north of Hughen-
den (C.Q.) takes its supply from the
Dutton River at the bottom of a preci-
pitous gorge. The 132 ft. cliff slopes back
at the top, making a direct vertical
stroke impossible for the pump rod. Two
stout V-shaped rockers on the principle
of the old-fashioned bell crank, each
pivoted at the apex to a metal plate, get
over the difficulty. A geared 14ft. wind-
mill is coupled to one arm of the upper
one. From the other arm, a rod runs
to an arm of the second “V” on a plat-
form 80ft. above the water, whence a
plunger rod runs down from the opposite
arm to the four-inch pump mounted
above flood-level. A two-inch discharge
pipe carries the water up to a storage
tank near the windmill, 132 ft. above.
The suction pipes can be lifted to clear
floods. The plant supplies 4000 sheep,
and design and construction were all
done by the station staff.
“Observer”: The notable success of
the Egelabra merinos from the Lower
Macquarie at Sydney Sheep Show re-
calls that the stud was founded in 1879
by H. E. Kater, father of the present
head of the family. These sheep trace
back in direct line to Rev. Samuel
Marsden’s pure merino flock, bred from
rams presented to Marsden by George
111. in 1809. In the last 60 years no ex-
ternal blood has been introduced. Re-
sponsive to expert classing and care the
standard to-day probably is at its
highest. The present year also marks
the centenary of the landing of the first
representative of the family in Aus-
tralia. In 1839 Henry H. Kater chartered
the ship Euphrates in England for the
voyage, and brought with him some
blood horses, including Cap-a-pie, Tros,
Paraguay and The Giggler, and a number
of stud Shorthorn cattle.
“A.A.D.”: A remarkable tribute to
Farrer’s breeding work comes from India,
where Federation is still one of the most
valued of introduced varieties. The
Peshawar Agricultural Research Station
has persisted with a strain of Federation,
imported from N.S.W. in 1912, which
has proved highly resistant to stem rust
and glume (orange) rust, and a better
yielder than any other variety. Glume
rust, which is not known in Australia, is
India’s most destructive disease of wheat.
Another strain of Federation, obtained
by Peshawar from the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture in 1928, failed com-
pletely, suffering regularly from both
species of rust. The old type of the
variety, however, continued entirely free
from diseases.
“Double Dee”: How many farmers
have seeded and harvested a crop of
wheat almost at the same time? A
farmer at Borden (W.A.) is one. After
sowing a crop in May he took off a
self-sown sprouting —18 bushels to the
acre. This came away when heavy rain
fell in January, and conditions thereafter
favored its growth. Although the ground
was soft and spongy, no difficulty was
experienced with a caterpillar. The
variety was quick-growing Beana. Other
varieties germinated at the same time,
but none matured. In the same district
another farmer put in a crop in Sep-
tember and cut it for hay in December.
It was estimated that that crop, if
allowed to mature, would have gone 30
bushels to the acre.
“Coolah”: Frederick McMaster, who
in the autumn put down 1000 tons of
lucerne and sorghum silage in pits at
Dalkeith (N.S.W.), is following up by
conserving a self-sown crop of 300 acres
of wheat. To speed up the work, he
adapted a special mower attachment with
a 7ft. cut to a Diesel tractor, which covers
30 acres a day. The crop has a good
growth of trefoil through it, and 700
tons of silage, affording a balanced
ration, is expected.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
How to test a cow in milk to determine
whether she is pregnant ?— 3943.
Except for noting cessation of periods on
heat, there is no reliable indication by which
an amateur can make certain. In the early
stages it is a job for a vet.
# * * *
What can I do for itch which affects a
draught-horse along the back and tail ? Patches
of hair have been rubbed off against trees.
There do not appear to be any vermin.—
3791.
The hair around the affected parts should
be clipped closely and the whole area well
cleaned with a 5 p.c. solution of bicarbonate ot
soda (loz. of sodium bicarbonate to one pint
of water), then dried. Apply thoroughly tc
the itchy parts two parts sulphur, one part
potassium carbonate, one part oil of tar and
eight parts olive oil. Repeat every second day.


iSMOHD ONV -SMOH3
HWVJ UACAAU 3HI
■aaawoiH
m
fir
coc * >^xc«
Si
S3*
yT>%cc?
'■M ~-
mm
a***;
\
m W:..
p
m
- x:
«Sw
«
X*!2
9Wwc
UNDERimbFOOT
-THE ONLY SAFE PLACE FOR
an EMERGENCY brake:
• If hydraulics should fail, what chance would
there be of reaching for a hand brake and
stopping in time? In a Hudson—and only in
a Hudson—your mechanical emergency brake
is where it belongs —under your foot! Double-
Safe Hydraulics! The easy-acting hand brake
is used only for parking
HUDSON
HYDRAULICS
PIUS
MECHANICAL
RESERVE
i . . \ \ON SAME fOOI PE DAI
.*«• //
i. i; n
HANDBRAKE FOR PARKING
'S PATENTED DOUBLE-SAFE BRAKES[
Lars shown are (above) new Hudson “One-Twelve” Roadster; (below) new Hudson “One •
Eighteen” Custom Sedan.
The life and go of Hudson performance . . . the roominess and lasting
sturdiness of Hudson bodies . . . the unmatched safety of Hudson’s
Patented Double-Safe Hydraulics these things have long been
recognised. With them to-day, in the 1939 Hudsons, are fresh new
beauty, new interior luxury and a wealth of new features that make
the new Hudsons more desirable than ever before.
Before buying any car, drive a new Hudson. See for yourself why
the Hudson family is so steadily, rapidly growing. See why thousands
of Hudson owners, throughout the world, are saying: “It’s the best
car, in every way, I ever owned!”
New Auto-Poise Control.
Patented Double-Safe Hydraulics.
New Dash-Locking Safety Bonnet.
New Handy Gear Lever —at the
steering wheel —no extra cost.
New Carry-All Luggage Compart-
ment.
LOWEST PRICED HUDSONS
IN HISTORY
NEW
1939
HUDSON
HUDSON “ONE-TWELVE’
HUDSON
“ONE-EIGHTEEN”
HUDSON COUNTRY CLUB SERIES
Hudson Motor-car Company.
N.S.W. Distributors:
DALGETY & COMPANY, LIMITED
(Incorporated in England),
Sir John Young Crescent,
Woolloomooloo, Sydney.
South Australian Distributors:
MOTORS, LTD.,
30-38 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
(Also at 145 Gawler Place, Adelaide.)
Victorian Distributors:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
140-144 Exhibition Street,
Melbourne, C.l»
West Australian Distributors:
MORTLOCK BROS., LTD.,
1016 Hay Street, Perth.
Queensland Distributors:
OVERLAND, LTD.,
Cnr. Constance & Wickham Sts.,
Brisbane.
Tasmanian Distributors:
H. C. HEATHORN & CO., LTD.,
53-73 Bathurst Street, Hobart,
Brisbane Street, Launceston.


CORNS .
Small tilings, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADP
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
i
With offices at Tendon,
'dices throughout Queensland and Nort« l “’^oVKAustralasia and the World.
a “ il^mera < the‘ a falie>t^fa<dHides for the transaction of all general hanking bus,ness.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d -
On Sale Every Wednesday.
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
To buy The Butter Industry, by Hunziker.—
4037.
To buy complete electrical recording of Beet-
hoven’s (Choral) Symphony No. 9. Must be
in good condition. —4003.
To buy old copies of the “Studio magazine
back to about 1935. —4022.
Information Sought.
Whereabouts and by how much is the clock
put forward on the Trans-Australian railway
journey between Kalgoorlie and Adelaide ?
4047.
Going east from Kalgoorlie the first change
is made at Rawlinna, 235.18 miles out, where
the time is advanced 45 minutes. A second
change of the same amount is made at Tarcoola,
794.05 miles out. Thence forward South Aus-
tralian standard time is kept.
* * * *
Who was it that described Gladstone as
being “inebriated with the exuberance of his
own verbosity,” and when and where? —3975.
Disraeli, in a speech at Kni£htsbridge on July
28 1878. Gladstone had shortly before de-
scribed the Convention of Ctpnstantinople as an
insane convention, and Disraeli referred to
Gladstone as “A sophistical rhetorician in-
ebriated with the exuberance of his own ver-
bosity, and gifted with an egotistical imagina-
tion tnat can at all times command an inter-
minable and inconsistent series of to
maiign his opponents and glorify himself.”
* * * *
/ want to adopt my mother’s maiden name.
Must this be done by deed poll? —3994.
Not absolutely necessary, but very desirable
if you want the change to be legally recognised.
* * * *
I art a Victorian. My husband deserted
me three years ago and I have neither heard
from him since nor know of his whereabouts.
How can I seek a divorce ? —4004.
On the ground that your husband has, “with-
out just cause or excuse, wilfully deserted you
and left you deserted during three years and
upwards.” The procedure is by petition to the
Court. In your case the service of the citation
(ordering him to appear before the Court)
would present some difficulty as you do not
know his present whereabouts. In these
circumstances you should put your case in the
hands of a solicitor.
* * * *
I employ three shearers, two of whom live
in one room, and the other in a tent. Must l
provide further accommodation for them ? If
/ employ four shearers, must I build or would
tents be sufficient ? —3964.
The N.S.W. Rural Workers’ Accommoda-
tion Act provides that where less. than five
rural workers are employed and reside accom-
modation must be provided that contains not
less than 480 cub. ft. of air space to any
person in any sleeping compartment; that not
more than two persons shall be accommodated
in any one sleeping compartment, and prohibits
the use of upper bunks in any sleeping com-
partment in any circumstances. Where
five or more rural workers are employed,
accommodation must be provided as required
by the Act and Regulations. The N.S.W. De-
partment of Labor and Industry would not
regard accommodation in a tent as complying
with the requirements of the Act mentioned.
$ * * *
I employ a washerwoman regularly for a
half-day every week. She is also employed
regularly by other residents in the district . Must
l insure her under the N.S.W. Workers’ Com-
pensation Act ? —3752.
As the employee is working under a regular
and not a casual contract of service she should
be insured under the provisions of the N.S.W.
Workers’ Compensation Act, 1926-38. Section
18 (6) of the Act provides that, “Where
several persons may become liable to pay com-
pensation in respect of the same worker, it
shall be sufficient to obtain a joint policy in
respect of such liability. The premium charge-
able in respect of such policy shall not exceea
the current rates for insurance of an employer s
liability in respect of workers engaged in the
same trade, occupation, calling or industry. ’
:Jc ‘
(1) In what year did Billy Williams first
appear at a Sydney theatre? (2) In what
theatres did he appear? (3) What age was he
when he last appeared in Australia ? —3928.
(1) At the Tivoli on May 27, 1910, under
the management of Harry Rickards. (2) In the
Melbourne Opera House and all theatres in
Australia on the Rickards circuit. (3) About 35.
* * * *
How to clean rust off metal ? —3966.
Small iron and steel parts may be cleaned by
placing them overnight in a solution of one
teaspoonful of ammonium citrate dissolved m
a glass of warm water. An alternative method
consists of allowing the article to stand over-
night in a saturated solution of distilled water
and chloride of tin. In the morning rinse the
solution off in running water and dry thoroughly.
He # -f *
(1) Names and addresses of Melbourne stamp
dealers who buy stamps? (2) What would be
a fair value for the following Mint jubilee
values: (a) Australia, (b) Sierra Leone, (c)
Leeward Is. and (and) Swaziland. —3989.
(1) W. Ackland, Cr. Collins and Elizabeth
streets; Orlo Smith, Box 1026 H; Centenary
Postage Stamp Company, Box 2163 T. See the
“Australian Stamp Monthly.” (2) A stamp
dealer should pay (a) 35., (6) about 35., (e)
about 2s. 6d. and (and) about 25., but prices
depend on supplies on hand and prospects of
rapid disposal.
* * * *
(1) Can an ammeter, previously used in a
six-volt circuit, be used in a circuit of 32
volts and over? (2) Precautions to be taken
when doing work on a 110-vo/t 5-amp.
generator to guard against electric shock ? (3)
When using a 32-volt generator without accu-
mulators for supplying lights, how should the
lamps be safeguarded against excessive current ?
—3901.
(1) Yes, provided the current passing through
the meter does not exceed the maximum value
inscribed on the instrument’s dial. (2) Rubber
gloves should be worn if the hands are liable
to come in contact with live wires or metal.
(3) If the generator is not flat-compounded,
some form of over-voltage relay slmuld be in-
corporated in the circuit in addition to the
usual fuses. The former will protect the lamps
in the event of excessive current, and the latter
the dynamo in the case of a short-circuit. The
engine should also be fitted with a governor.
* * * *
How to preserve ferns and autumn-tinted
leaves to send abroad ? —3991.
Lay the foliage in a mixture of one table-
spoonful of glycerine and a pint of water for
20 minutes, keeping the foliage well covered.
Lift and press between sheets of clean
white paper, and finally weigh down with
a brick for about 12 hours, and dry the foliage
in a warm room. When packing be careful
to spread the leaves out in natural form, and
place a sheet of paper between each layer.
* * * *
Method of raising Sturt desert pea in Syd-
ney coastal area ? —3978.
Soak seeds for 15 minutes in hot water and
sow them in light sandy soil in a warm corner
of the garden. Many horticulturists burn rub-
bish on the planting-ground and have excellent
results. The beds should be raised above the
level of the paths and well drained. After the
young plants come through the surface no
further cultivation of the soil must be done:
the least interference will cause them to die.
A little old lime sprinkled on the surface soil
will keep slugs and snails away from the seed-
lings and is not injurious.
* V * *
Some particulars concerning a tree known
botanically as “Cordia myxa” ? —3897.
Cordia myxa, an ornamental tree with large,
nearly orbicular leaves, extends to tropical Asia
and is cultivated in many lands; it is the
sebesten plum of India, where the tender
young shoots are eaten either as a vegetable
or pickled. The kernel, which tastes like a
filbert, is also eaten. From their mucilaginous
properties, combined with a degree of astrin-
gency, they have been used as pectoral medi-
cines under the name of sebestens. The bark
is used as a mild tonic. The wood, grey to
light brown, and soft, is said to have provided
the timber for Egyptian mummy-cases. It is
used in India for boatbuilding and to make
covers for Burmese cheroots; the viscid pulp
of the fruit is made into birdlime, and the
kernel yields a marking ink.
* * * *
A few hints on sowing gerbera seed ? —3927.
Seed must be freshly gathered. Sow in a box
of sandy soil, pressing the pointed ends into the
soil one by one and leaving the fluffy brush
ends sticking out of the ground. Place the box
in a warm corner on a cold frame or, failing
this, where it can get the full warmth of the
sun. Keep in a shed or under shelter at night.
The box must be covered with a piece of glass
that has been whitewashed. Late winter or
early spring is the best time for sowing.
* * * *
Are the nuts of the candlenut-tree edible?
If not, what are their uses, and are they of any
commercial value? Whence does the name of
the tree come ? —3499. .
The candlenut-tree ( Aleurites moluccana) is
a native of Malaysia, but is now widely culti-
vated throughout the tropics. The common
name arises from the fact that in Java and
Macassar it was a common practice to form
candles by pounding the nuts with cotton and
copra until the mass had the consistency of
stiff wax and could be shaped into a candle
round a bamboo splint. The seeds are not
usually regarded as edible, but are used a little
in food, chiefly among the Javanese. They are
used for making a sauce which is an almost
invariable associate of the green vegetables
eaten with rice. In the preparation, the kernels
are crushed and the oil extracted and used as
an illuminant. The cake is then dried and pul-
verised, steeped for 48 hours in running water,
then steamed and set aside to ferment for four
days. The kernels of the nuts are sometimes
eaten, but must be roasted. The roasted kernels
are crushed and the oil extracted and used as
a relish or as an addition to curries. The
kernels are regarded as injurious if not properly
prepared. The oil is a drying oil and the tree
is closely related to the tung-tree of commerce.
* * * *
(1) Number of motor-body building estab-
lishments in Australia? (2) Number of persons
engaged? (3) Value of land and buildings?
(4) Value of plant and machinery? (4) Wages
paid? (6) Value of fuel used? (7) Value of
materials used? (8) Total value of output?
(9) Value of production? —4o4o.
(1) 201. (2) 12,267. (3) £1,174,599. (4)
£448,376. (5) £2,566,586. (6) £69,276. (7)
£3,639,930. (8) £7,228,611. (9) £3,519,405.
List of Bulletin Red Page articles dealing
with Australian verse and published since the
beginning of 1938 ? —3987.
“Poems by Douglas Stewart,” by Ronald
McCuaig, B. 15/3/’39; “Moonlight Acre” (re-
view of Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s Moonlight
Acre), B. 18/1/ ’39; “Australian Verse” (re-
views of Hugh McCrae’s The Mimshi Maiden,
John Shaw Neilson’s Men of the ’Fifties,
Victor Kennedy’s Light of the Earth, and T.
Inglis Moore’s Adagio in Blue), B. 28/12/’3B;
“Rex Ingamells’s Poems,” B. 14/12/’3B ; “Shaw
Neilson’s Verses,” B. 19/10/’3B; “A Sydney
‘Vaudeville’ ” (review of Ronald McCuaig’s
Vaudeville), B. 28/9/’3B; “Verses from Mel-
bourne” (review of Mary Finnin’s A Beggar’s
Opera), B. 3/8/’3B; “Verses by Nora Mc-
Auliffe,” B. 26/1/’3B.
* * * *
A few hints on preparing MSS. for pub-
lishers —class and size of paper, typing and
binding ? —'3995.
Use white bond paper of standard business-
letter size (B|in. by llin.) and of medium
weight. Typewriter ribbon should be black:
one side of paper only should be used, and
margins should be about an inch on top, bottom
and right side, and Hin. on the left. Double-
Space between lines and indent the first line of
each paragraph about five spaces. Make a
carbon copy and keep it —don’t send it instead
of the original typescript. Number each page
in the upper right-hand corner, and carry
numbers consecutively throughout the entire
manuscript. Some publishers prefer the pages
left loose, though MSS. which are fastened in
chapters with a slide-on clip are easy to handle.
Place the whole in an ordinary springback
letter-file or in a box-file with a simple spring-
clip inside. Files in which sharp screws and
spikes and bulky clips are used are apt to prove
a nuisance, and sometimes dangerous to those
who have to handle them. Any form of
fastening which makes it difficult to read the
first few words on the left-hand side should
not be used. In all cases the MS. should be
easy to get at and taken apart if desired, yet,
at the same time, be secure.
* '¥ ¥ ¥
Number of public schools in the Australian
Capital Territory and number of pupils attend-
ing them ? Cost per annum, and what depart-
ment conducts the schools? —4043.
During the year 1936 13 State schools were
open in the Australian Capital Territory. There
were 1639 pupils enrolled, and the average
attendance was 1289. Cost of upkeep amounted
to £17,070. By arrangement with the Federal
Government these schools are conducted by the
N.S.W. Education Department in the same
way as the ordinary State schools, the depart-
ment being recouped for expenditure.
* * * *
What are the main points in forming muni-
cipal land valuations in N.S.W. ? —3858.
The valuations used for municipal rating pur-
poses in all the municipalities of the Sydney
metropolitan area and a .number of those in the
country areas are those adopted by the Valuer-
General’s Department under the provisions of
the Valuation of Land Act, 1916. In those
municipalities where this is not the case the
valuations are those made by the local councils
under the provisions of Schedule 3 of the
N.S.W. Government Act, 1919. In each case,
however, it is provided by the statute that the
unimproved value of land (on which municipal
rates are almost solely levied) shall be the
capital sum which the fee simple of the land
might be expected to realise if offered for sale
on such reasonable terms and conditions as a
bona fide seller would require, assuming that
the improvements, if any, thereon or apper-
taining thereto, and made or acquired by the
owner or his predecessor in title, had not
been made. The factors which a valuer must
consider in arriving at the valuation, therefore,
are all those factors which a prudent business-
man would consider in determining what price
he would pay for the land under bona fide
conditions.
¥ ¥ ?• *
(1) Approximate cost in Australian money to
buy in England and land in Brisbane for
private use or for resale a second-hand sedan car
offered for sale at, say, (a) £SSO, (b) £SIOO and
(c) £SISO ? (2) Any English firms that would
send out cars? (3) Prospects of building up a
business now that new, heavy taxation should
put plenty of high-powered cars on the cheap
market ? —3678.
(1) To all sterling rates quoted 25 p.c. must
be added as well as insurance and freight. The
chassis is duty-free, but other duties would be
0.7 and. per pound for bounty fund provision,
whichever is the greater of from £3O to £BS
flat rate or 40 p.c. ad valorem on body, which-
ever is the greater of 4d. per pound or 45 p.c.
ad valorem on springs, whichever is the greater
of 6d. per pound or 20 p.c. ad valorem on
tyres, and for the purpose of value for duty
10 per cent, must be added to the price quoted
sterling. Obviously, in most cases, duty paid
on tyres, springs, etc., is greater than the cost
of the new article in Australia, and it may
be taken that the new cost in the country of
origin would form the basis for tariff assess-
ment. It can be seen from the foregoing that
duty would practically equal the cost of the
second-hand car in England and would be pro-
hibitive except in the case of a car selling at
£IOOO or more. (2) Know of none, and, any-
way, English manufacturers would object
to second-hand cars being exported to Aus-
tralia as it would influence their new-car sales
here. (3) For reasons stated in (1), practi-
cally none.
¥ * *
Particulars of the essay competition con-
ducted by the Henry Lawson Society of Foots-
cray (Vic.)?— 4o3s.
The subject is “Mary Gilmore: Dreamer and
Doer ” jwo prizes will be awarded —first, £3
10s. and second £1 10s. Number of words
should not exceed 2500, and essays should be
submitted under a nom de plume and the real
name and address of the competitor should be
enclosed in a sealed envelope. An entrance
fee of Is. must accompany entries, which should
reach S. Ford, hon. sec., Henry Lawson
Memorial and Literary Society, 63 Wmdsor-
street, Footscray, W.ll, Vic., before Sep-
tember 30, 1939.
Brief Answers.
H. : From Irish Heralds' College, Office
of Arms, The Castle, Dublin....J.G.C.: The
first two-thirds of Eric Lowe's Salute to Free-
dom was published in. The Bulletin as a serial
entitled ’T Sold My Horses” R.M.: (D
Depends whether the news is copyrighted or
not. It would be wise to write asking tor
permission to republish. (2) Yes, but courtesy
demands that the source of publication should
be acknowledged... .E.S.: J. H. Smyth, 114
Castlereagh-street, A. C. Campe, 12 Royal-
arcade, T. H. Nicolle, 105 Pitt-street, and
C. F. Laseron, 21 Royal-arcade—all Sydney.
. (1) Cannot trace quotation. (2)
From verses entitled Stumbling-block or Step-
ping-stone, by R. L. Sharpe....C.K.: If you
mean F. C. Kendall's Henry Kendall: His
Later Years, it was published by the author
last year at a cost of Is. and is described by
him as “a refutation of Mrs. Hamilton-Grey s
book Kendall, Our God-made Chief • ••■
F.O’M.: Dulcie Deamer's publications include
The Suttee of Safa (1912), Revelation (1921),
The Street of the' Gazelle (1922), The Devil s
Saint (1924), As It Was in the Beginning
(collected short stories, 1929), Messalina (poems,
1932) G.T.: Australian Parrots, by Neville
Cayley (12s. 6d.), and The Lyre Bird, by R. t.
Littlejohns (4s. 6d.)....C.H.: Complete infor-
mation regarding local production of lertilisers
is not available. Thirty-three firms were manu-
facturing chemical fertilisers during 1936-37.
I. tons of superphosphates was pro-
duced in Australia during 1936-37, the largest
producers being Vic., W.A. and S.A.....
J. : In 1924-25 the New Guinea Administra-
tion obtained 16151b. of cotton seed, and culti-
vation was tried at experimental stations as
well as by private planters, including a few
natives, but little progress has been made
H.M.: Yes, there was a proposal to import
lions, tigers and elephants into Australia for
big-game hunting. Nothing more has been
heard since the proposal was condemned by
the zoology section of the Science Congress
held at Canberra last January... .J.M.Q.: You
may remove any shelving, etc., not attached to
the building, walls, floors, etc. They are
tenants’ fixtures and do not pass to the land-
lord. You should not interfere with the
tenement in any way, but so far as possible,
allowing for reasonable wear and tear, leave
it as you found it... .A.J.J.: (1) The N.S.W.
Public Trustee acts as attorney in such cases,
not only for residents in that State, but for
persons in the other States. (2) Write to the
W.A. Government Printer, Perth, for cost and
postage. (3) No... .J.T.G.: By the Statute ol
Limitations, founded on the English statute
and practically the same in all the States, certain
periods are fixed within which particular
actions must be brought or proceedings taken.
The statute covers a wide range over realty
and personalty... .R.C.W.: The words “all
nieces and nephews living at the time of my
death” would, in law, be construed to mean
nieces and nephews “born in wedlock.” The
subsequent marriage would not legitimate them.
N.N.M.F.: (1) Yes, if she has any separate
estate. (2) Mere guesswork. (3) The same as
advised by your solicitor in the case of the
husband A.R.: “Walkabout” (monthly, Is.),
Railway Building, Flinders-street, Melbourne;
the “Home” (monthly, Is. 3d.), 38 Hunter-
street, Sydney; the “B.P. Magazine”
(quarterly, Is.), 7 Bridge-street, Sydney
W.T.: The hotelkeeper gets 25s., the porter
2s. and the lodgers 3s. refund. You err in
assuming that the hotelkeeper has received 27s.
instead of 25s B.B.R.: (1) France pro-
duces a larger quantity of wheat than Australia.
The production for France in 1937 was
253,539,000 bushels and for Australia
188,018,000 bushels. (2) In the world’s wheat-
producing countries Australia is eleventh and
France fifth A.J.: Kynoch tweed is made
by G. C. Kynoch, Isla Bank, Scotland... .W.A.:
An option is “a liberty of choosing, a freedom
of choice,” and by implication would ordinarily
guarantee a renewal if chosen... .A.B.: Copy
of marriage or birth registration may be
obtained from the Vic. Government Statist,
Melbourne. Cost of fully-certified copy of
either is 7s. 6d., of an extract from either
2s. 6d. Give full names, date and place of
marriage for copy of marriage registration;
give full Christian names and surname,
date and place of birth, names of parents and
maiden name of mother for copy of birth regis-
tration. Postal note covering cost should be
sent with application... .E.B.: In 1938, 3083
Plymouths were registered in Australia, 2145
Buicks, 2102 Pontiacs, 2687 Dodges and 2149
Oldsmobiles K.C.B.: (I) £50 without the
rate of pension being affected.... (2) £65 per
annum without the rate of pension being
affected. (3) For every £10 worth of property
or money over £50, a deduction of £1 per
annum is made from the maximum pension
of £52 per annum. Any earnings over £65
per annum will cause a corresponding de-
crease in the rate of pension K.E.K.: (1)
and (2) It is the official organ of the Aus-
tralian Journalists’ Association, and is pub-
lished by that organisation at 145 Collins-street,
Melbourne. (3) and (4) Yes, 6d. per copy
D.H.M.L.: (1) and (2) “Encroachment” means
(N.S.W. Act No. 23, 1922) “encroachment by
a building,” and includes “encroachment by the
overhanging of any part,” as well as “intrusion
on any part on or upon the soil”; and an
“owner” is any person entitled to an estate of
freehold in possession, whether in fee simple
or for life “or otherwise,” whether in law or
equity, and whether absolutely or by way of
mortgage. The Act applies also to encroach-
ments made either before or after its passing,
and whether they were made intentionally or
through negligence... .C.R.: N. S. Wales hos-
pitals received £712,765 from the N._ S. Wales
State lotteries in 1936-37, £792,183 in 1937-38
and £840,000 in 1938-39... .S.B.M.: Irrespec-
tive of the particular Judge, it is a fundamental
principle in law that “if a Judge has a per-
sonal interest in the action he is incapacitated
from officiating” J.WJL: (1) The scale of
charges made by valuers varies with the distance
travelled and the size of the property. One
man doing a property valued at £1500 to
£2000 would charge from two to three guineas.
This would vary also with the type of land
and may be greater for irrigable land or
orchards (2) Shire valuations are usually a
little lower than the actual value of properties.


&
5...
No. 125,
THE
'GOOND!'
STOCK
SADDLE
£B/8/-
(MOUNTEI))
It has a deep
hogskin seat,
kip flaps with
extended
panel points,
wide Vic-
toria facing and is fawn serge lined.
N.S.W. Rail Freight' on Saddles Paid
for Cash with Order.
Write for New Saddlery Catalog,
to be published this month.
VALTHER & STEVEMSOM E??:j
39S CEORCE ST. SYDNEY
Relaxation, recrea-
tion, wide scenic
vistas and modern
comfort are assured
to travellers who
take the Canadian
Australasian route
to Europe.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF
N.Z., LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.).
247 George Street, Sydney.
59 William Street, Melbourne.
N
\
Emu
m
NEW ZEALAND
FULHDNOLULU
CANADIAN AUSTRALASIAN LINE
m
f Cross-country Mail Car, 79391
■MM
-e=*cSS&i
BY MAIL^
•/»
XIII %-T
From the early days of settlement, the bank of New South
Wales has pushed forward with the pioneers, bringing them
the benefits of a progressive banking service. To-day the
Bank still carries on this tradition, offering ready service to
the outback. Those who are unable to visit the Bank's nearest
branch may open an account and operate on it, and transact
banking business, if need be, entirely by mail.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST AND LARGEST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
477A.1939
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally
E.M.: Slight... .L.H.: There’s only one
adjective that will describe “A Meatworks”....
P.EJ.: You didn’t need to explain that it was
a nightmare... .R.T.: It’s been very much
better done before... .L.J.M.: “What Have
You Done?” Rejected it... .P.R.D.: Well,
hie you off then... .D.C.H.: “Pipe Dreams”
floating back F.C.K.: Too many common-
place phrases M.R.: Can’t imagine a build-
ing with “its shorn old head bent in a
drunken roll”,.. .A.1.R.: If you’re going to
personify Night you’re welcome to talk of her
face, but not of her “blue dome” W.G.T.:
An idea, but you don’t do it justice....
T.E.McC.: There’s a cackle in the goose, but
she’s a skinny bird..J.L.S.: Try “The
Housewife” on a woman’s paper... .H.A.H.:
Give it to the partner of your bliss E.C.:
Don’t know of any competition, that would
suit... .E.C.: “The Old Coach Road” leads
nowhere... .R.E.N.: “Miracle” just fails to
come off. The others are thin G.S.T.:
“It means more to me than it does to you.”
Suggest you never let it out of your sight
again... .N.R.L.: Yes, “Thou Sinner!”....
N.T.E.: It’s not even legible G.N.R.: An
idea there, but you’ve given it a pretty rough
deal... .K.L.R.: No perch for “Birds of
Sorrow” M.T.N.: From what musty tomb
did you unearth that curio? ... .8.R.5.: Yes,
but why not finish it?... .8.L.D.: Revives
distressing memories of others like it
8.T.L.: Genuinely sorry if we ever did pub-
lish anything like that J.S.F.: “Looking
Upwards” from the w.p.b L.P.D.: At
least the time wasted in reading “ ’Andsome
’Arry” was less than that wasted in writing it.
P.D.F.: Good, but not our meat
J.T.P.: “Fleabite” even less noticeable
L.T.C.: Might stand a chance elsewhere....
8.H.A.: “I just can’t help my writing.” Well,
it does . need some sort of assistance....
L.P.R.: Cut the sketch by about half, then
brush it up and try again H.N.R.:
Realised that “the leading Australian story-
teller” does not necessarily write the leading
Australian story, but we did expect something
better than that M.H.R.: Keep trying.
. ...8.R.G.: “Misfortunes of a Tabby Cat”
very sad... .L.T.N.: That nag has won like
that a thousand times, but it has never copped
a purse from us F.L.R.: Nor has that
burglar ever reached our coffers V.F.P.:
Even the Religious Editor drew the line at
“We Sin Less”... .J.T.8.: Not up to standard.
. ...L.D.M.: No “Dogs That Bark” on these
premises... .N.D.K.: You’re improving; keep
at it H.T.S.: Not for us “a tale of love
and hate in the Antarctic” H.F.H.: The
paper’s attractive M.G., F.R.8., H.T.S.,
L.P.C. and LJ.K.: Try them elsewhere.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
0.A.: All those straggling lines do not go
to make a good picture W.E.: You’ll need
to do much better W.C.: Prefer to see the
originals and not the rough-outs J. 8.: ’Twas
considered a daring gag in the ’nineties
8.R.: A rough-and-tumble effort W.D.:
It helped to swell the reject pile T.W.: All
right as drawings for a catalogue .. .M.F.; Poli-
tical merry-go-round cartoon doesn’t make sense.
L.B.: Hard to tell from copies; get the
youngster to send in a few originals J.C.M.:
They all show promise, particularly the wash
drawings H.J.: Your ambition has out-
stripped your talent S.R.S.: Good, clean-
cut lines, but queerly proportioned figures
N.A.: Another artist beat you to the printer
with that idea... .D.J.: The gag doesn’t fit the
drawing 8.5.: Short-cuts of that nature
will only land you in a b0g....M.A.: Didn’t
we throw that bar-room baritone out on his
pink ear a few months back? D.E.: Sketch
done on scraperboard among this week’s un-
tidiest R.W.: With a little more practice
you should hit the target T.M.: Clumsy
work... .P.T.R.: The ornamental border was
its most attractive feature L. 8.: So scratchy
that it must have been done with a post-office
pen 8.W.: Wilkie Bard used that chestnut
years ago K.D.: Anaemic C.P.: Two-up-
school drawing is a muddled piece of work.
. ...H.S.H.: Dreadful... .D.L.L.: You didn’t
even get the swastika right.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Si Anu”: Aviation Minister Fairbairn
was surprised the other day to find that
an air voyage of inspection had to be re-
arranged because the only communication
between Koepang, capital of Dutch
Timor, and Deli, capital of Portuguese
Timor, was an almost impassable bush
track, although the Blanda and the
Portingall have shared the island for up-
wards of two centuries. The Dutch have
always resented the little oasis of extinct
Portuguese imperialism which prevents
them from rounding off their exclusive
possession of their beloved archipelago.
An almost impassable bush track in
Timor is only a primitive version of the
Maginot, Siegfried and other “lines” in
Europe, anyhow.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: Melbourne City
Fathers are toying with the idea of intro-
ducing the traffic “roundabout” to solve
the congestion problem. It has proved a
success in London, notably at Piccadilly
Circus, where for beauty’s sake a round-
about was placed before the motor-car
was even thought of. Artificial rounda-
bouts involve the building of a central
island which vehicles circumnavigate in
clockwise fashion, escaping from the two
streams along feeder roads without any
interruption to the flow of traffic. The
only difficulty for Melbourne is Mel-
bourne, which was laid out on the grid-
iron pattern by some demon geome-
trician.
sj: sfc H 1 %
“Ysbrantsz”: Germany’s claims to a
slice of the Antarctic are based on very
thorough photographic surveys accord-
ing to German reports of the Schwaben-
land expedition of 1938-39 under Cap-
tain Ritscher. These state that nearly
250,000 square miles of the Antarctic
Continent were discovered, and that
11,000 photographs taken from the ex-
pedition’s two ’planes, Boreas and Passat,
give a complete picture of 130,000 square
miles of this area. The region examined
lies due south of Africa, between 69 and
78 S., and between 20 E. and 12 W.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: There is some ambiguity
about the cabled report that Prince
Mahmud of Trengganu (Malay States),
contrary to the wish of his brother, the
Sultan, has married a young English lady
whom he met at Oxford. According to
the cable, the question of a second mar-
riage will be considered when the newly-
wedded couple arrive in Trengganu, but
whether it is to be a second marriage to
a second (native) lady or a second mar-
riage to the white lady according to the
laws of Trengganu isn’t stated. It might
be either, anything up to four wives being
permissible in Trengganu. If it is the
latter, the Oxford damsel will have to
submit to remarriage by capture, nowa-
days reduced to a mock battle between
the swain’s supporters and the best man
and friends of the bride. Then she will
have to submit to the bersanding, i.e„ sit
for three days and nights bolt upright on
a throne alongside her beloved, making
no sign whatever of being aware of hb
existence. She will then be escorted to
the bridal bed and the bridegroom intro-
duced to her, whereupon removes aau
friends will enter with congratulations
and stories. They will then be left to
their own devices, except that some aged
hags will be ensconced behind a curtain.
H= * * *
“T.”: “America Speaks” was the title
of a Sydney editorial. Reading down you
discovered that Mr. Hull had addressed
some polite remarks to the Japanese, and
that Mr. Roosevelt proposed a mild
amendment to the law which permits
belligerents to buy American goods for
money down and take all risks of being
torpedoed, shelled or bombed to smith-
ereens. No mention of a Senator who
pointed out, very rudely, that another lot
of war-interest bills fell due on June 15,
and that, like the creditor who put Mr.
Micawber in the “cooler,” Uncle Sam
expected to be paid.
* * * *
Britain is enjoying a spell of revived
trade activity just now. But, seemingly,
rearmament spending has a lot to do
with it, and unless the country’s export
trades also revive there is no guarantee
that industries will remain busy. Rearma-
ment, in fact, has penalised the export
trades by putting a premium on certain
types of labor and raising the general
level of costs. The position, however,
has some brighter aspects. The cost of
living, though still high, has come down
somewhat from the peak established in
1937-38, and it is still declining. In Aus-
tralia our living costs continue to rise
in spite of the fact that the national
income has been shrinking for nearly
two years. Something is obviously wrong
with the way we are doing things.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: “Der Stiirmer,” the Jew-
baiting newspaper, has discovered that
Roosevelt’s great-grandfather married a
Jewess —hence Roosevelt represents, not
Americanism, but world Jewry, whatever
world Jewry may be. The Jew-baiting
writer was in all probability anti-Hitler a
few years ago, like 99 p.c. of his fellow-
Germans ; now he is pro-Hitler. But his
ancestors haven’t changed. Nazi theor-
ists never seem to understand that people
follow fashions in ideas. There are no
more fervent White Australians than
Australian-born Chinese. The majority
of Russians a few years ago called the
Tsar their Little Father, were Orthodox
Christians, capitalists and Jew-haters,
often Jew-baiters. Now they have set up
a Jewish Autonomous Republic, they
regard private property as theft, they call
religion the opium of the people, and
kings and princes are anathema to them.
But they haven’t changed their ancestry.
* * * *
The Rolls-Royce people last year made
a record profit of £479,950 and paid a
25 p.c. div.
♦ % *
The Bank for International Settlements,
domiciled in Switzerland, still carries on,
though it hasn’t grown to be the force
its founders intended. An American, T.
H. McKittrick, partner of a London
financial house, has been made chairman
for the next three years. Otto Niemeyer
and Montagu Norman, both of the Bank
of England, are connected with the
8.1.5. One useful purpose served by the
institution is that it enables Montagu
Norman to go to the Continent for the
monthly board meetings and to discuss,
perhaps, other matters with European
bankers without attracting undue atten-
tion. Since the transfer of part of the
Czechoslovakian gold reserve to the
8.1.5., and thence, presumably, to Ger-
many, some London critics have called
the 8.1.5. a “white elephant,” among other
names.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
This week a Maorilander gets the prize and the plus for a pithy bit of writing
on the falsehood of extremes and the tyranny of minorities.
“For Their Own Good”
Very often we hear it said that what
the world needs is a new religion. What
this declaration usually amounts to is
that the speaker believes that the world
should be remodelled according to his
own particular brand of politics or
ethics.
There is. for instance, a strong
evangelical strain in all ardent believeis
in Communism, Nazism and Fascism. I
confess I am afraid of it. There seem
to be no cruelties too monstrous to be
practised by idealists and fanatics upon
those who do not conform.
It is enlightening to note how many
people who hate Nazism, and deplore
the regimentation, brutality and lack of
intellectual freedom in Germany, see
little wrong with the same things as
practised in Russia. And the same applies
conversely, of course.
A friend of mine is an ardent and sin-
cere Socialist, entirely against all self-
interest. But when I once declared to
him that I could subscribe to no system
under which a minority tries to lorce
people to conform against their intel-
lectual beliefs, he asked, “Why not, if it
is for their own good?”
In that remark can be perceived the
whole danger which emanates from
evangelists who believe fanatically in
anything They become so dogmatic, so
assured’of their rightness that they are
eager to impose their religious, political
or sociological ideals on unbelievers
“for their own good.” In doing so they
are sublimely egotistical, since they
assume the role of a god who knows
best.” It may even be that some of them
see themselves in such a role or at least
as an understudy for it! — Heretaunga
(M.L.).
“Heretaunga”—the winner—is W. J.
Hay, of Albert-street, Hastings, M.L.
Plea for Young Men
There should be greater opportunities
for young men in public life and busi-
ness in Australia. I know such a pro-
posal will get this brick: “Not sufficiently
balanced, you know!”
But why? Men graduate from the uni-
versities and technical schools every year,
and many of them just rust away through
lack of opportunity.
In Government circles seniority rules
are carried to absurdity. Young men
with high and brilliant honors are juniors
to older men, and must remain so until
deaths leave vacancies.
Let those who are inclined to rebel
against my plea for the young men con-
sider the remarks of Arthur Maxwell,
touring Australia, who at 34 is a direc-
tor of the Union Bank, of Vickers Arm-
strong and of Glyn, Mills and Co.
Hers are his views on the question:
“Young men are now taking greater
responsibilities in the business and public
life of the United Kingdom. This is a
tendency of recent years. Although I
am the youngest director of the three
companies mentioned, I am not an excep-
tion. There is another director of the
Union Bank about a year older than I
am.”
Now, why not in Australia ?
Scribbler (N.S.W.).
Why Grow Old?
Although I am still on the right side
of 30, like most men I every now and
again give a thought to death. And as
I know death is inevitable, I am
trying to acquire a philosophical view-
point. I am trying to steel myself to
dispel any fear of death I might hold.
But it is my firm belief that the
Psalmist’s “three - score - years - and - ten”
limit of life is doing a great deal to
prevent longevity.
When a man reaches 40, and if he has
the “three-score-years-and-ten” limit in
mind, he naturally regards himself as
middle-aged. And by doing so he un-
consciously adopts a posture of mind
and mode of living which, in his esti-
mation, are appropriate to a middle-aged
person. . ,
At 50 he really thinks he is getting
old ; at 60 he is old, and making no
bones about the matter. And at 70 (it
still alive) he is, literally speaking, groan-
ing “under the weight of his years.”
But why should this be? To my way
of thinking, it is nothing else but a capi-
tulation to a silly old superstition. A
man is only as old as he feels, whether
he is 20 or 70. But if he thinks he is
old, and deludes himself that he is old
well, he is old, and susceptible to all the
complaints that come in old age.
Barring accidents and war, I confi-
dently expect to live to a hundred.
Because from now on I am going to
refuse to grow old. I am going to wipe
the Psalmist’s “three-score-and-ten” clean
out of my mind, and instead think in
hundreds. Why not? If anything can
dispel the old-age bogey it is optimism.—
R. Conquest (Q.).
What’s Wrong with Queenslanders?
In spite of the fact that the Queens-
land Rugby Union team has beaten New
South Wales three times out of four this
season, the team picked to tour England
contains 17 New South Walesers and
only eight Queenslanders.
This is only one of the many injustices
done to Queenslanders in sport. Take
cricket, for example. Ron Oxenham, one
of the best all-rounders Australia has
produced, never saw the shores of Eng-
land, and now more -recently we saw Don
Tallon, young, a promising bat and the
wicketkeeper with the best ’keeping aver-
age of the season, left out of the touring
side. No wonder people in the northern
State are asking each other “What’s
wrong with Queenslanders? P. H. R.
(N.Q.).
Females —and Blokes
Why do these women find something
offensive in the word “female”? “Female”
is a good, clean, honest word used by
statisticians, medicoes and other people
who mean what they say.
I can’t remember any woman being
really offended when referred to as a
clinah, a donah, a sheilah, a tart, a tabby,
a bit o’ fluff, a skirt, a jane or any
kindred expression.
Now, ladies, you’ve been treated very
well. Did it ever occur to you what a
poor man has to put up with when he
may be called a joker, a hobo, a cove, a
coot, a coon, a hog, a goat, a cow, a
fair cow, a fair dinkum cow, a fair
dinkum lousy cow (unkindest cut of all),
a dope, a mug, a sook, a sissy, a ninny, a
nancy, a gertie and some other words
which cause him to feel truly grateful
when someone refers to him as a real
male, or even a mere male? — Bloko
(M.L.).
Hoots, Mon!
“We are glad to know that a man
born and brought up in Australia is
able to hold the highest position in our
system of government.” Thus Premier
Stevens’s wife at a reception tendered by
the Women’s U.A.P. Club to P.M. Men-
zies. As an Australian I say “Hear,
hear,” but why make it the occasion
for the introduction of those vacuum-
cleaner-looking noises —the bagpipes?
If all-wool Australians must be
serenaded by means of musical instru-
ments, then for heaven’s sake let s
have mouth-organs, jew’s-harps, gum-
leaves or concertinas! There’s too much
pibroch, kilts, hairy-legs and haggis
being introduced into our Australian life.
Just fancy the Laird o’ Killiecrankie
or Macdonald o’ Glencoe, twa braw
Scotties, being piped to the strains of
“Waltzing Matilda” or “Australia Will
Be There” by a spindle-legged abo. with
a gumleaf, a goanna slung over his left
shoulder! Can you imagine it, fellow-
Australians?— Aussie (N.S.W.).
Petrol Tax
From every gallon of petrol used in
Australia the Government nets over
sevenpence in tax. In 12 months this tax
amounts to a considerable sum, even for
the average motorist, whose car would
use approximately two gallons an hour.
It can be imagined,, therefore, what a
heavy burden the tax imposes on airway
companies ; their biggest machines con-
sume as much as 100 gallons an hour.
The motorist at least can console him-
self with the thought that some of the
money collected eventually finds its way
into the building of main roads. The
owners of aircraft, on the other hand,
to whom serviceable aerodromes are as
vital as good roads to the motorist, re-
ceive few or no benefits.
Even airports at capital cities fall
far short of overseas standards, and as
for country aerodromes, some are in such
a neglected condition that they are actu-
ally dangerous to use. Frequently air-
liners have to miss out schedule stops on
this account.
The thousands of pounds collected
from aircraft operators by means of the
petrol tax should be earmarked as nucleus
for a fund to maintain and improve aero-
dromes throughout Australia. Firstly
because such a move would help to open
up new areas of country and secondly
because a chain of efficient aerodromes is
vitally necessary for defence. — Paton
(Vic.).
An American on Royalty
It is with deep interest and hearty
approval that I read the many copies of
The Bulletin mailed me by a kind
friend in Australia.
On the “Uncabled Additions” page of
March 29, 1939, I read with much sur-
prise the article about “U.S.A. Attacks on
the Royal Visit.” It seems in just fair-
ness to all concerned that someone
should correct this statement in the eyes
of Australian and English people.
I understand from the printed articles
that the opinions of only a few people
are quoted, and not that of the whole or
even part of the people of the United
States. Do you know if these folks who
have been quoted are citizens of the
United States or of some other country?
There are women in the United States of
America who are considered to have a
better viewpoint on public matters than
the wife of the President. Ido not
entirely approve of many of the things
that she does and talks about. Writing
at this date [May 20], I sincerely
hope that Mrs. Roosevelt will be able to
represent the people of the United States
in the way and manner that they should
be represented when the King and Queen
visit here.
I want the English-speaking people to
know that the United States of America
is a huge melting-pot of many races,
creeds and colors, but that the true 100
per cent. American citizens feel that the
visit of the King and Queen is an honor.
I think that the royal visit will receive the
hearty approval of the American public
itself.
Regardless of the opinions expressed
in the United States or abroad, the Eng-
lish-speaking people of all nations are
bound together in an invisible bond of
friendship that no other country or nation
will ever be able to destroy. Jessie
Stirling Murley (New Jersey, U.S.A.).
The Female Form
“U. Kad” (B. 29/3/’39) says that the
female form is something pretty close
to a nightmare. Down through the ages
man must have handed on his preference
for such nightmares.
The most constant theme in our man-
made literature and in our man- made art,
both on canvas and in sculpture, is the
beauty of the female form.
Let “U. Kad” visit any beach in the
bathing season. Will he find the men
either young or old fleeing from the
crowds of “nightmares”?
The nearest approaches to human
nightmares that I have seen have been
clad in brief trunks and have sported
hairy chests and limbs. Mary Mary
(N.S.W.).
The Country Youth
It doesn’t astonish me at all that coun-
trv narents are educating their sons to
something in the city" (B. 28/6/'39).
There’s little else for them to do. A
farmer friend of mine has for years been
trying to place his sons on blocks of their
own, and when quite recently one of the
sons drew a Sydney Government closer-
settlement block he was, not unnaturally,
delighted. His delight faded when he
inspected the block and found that it
was unfenced, had no water, no house,
and was mostly low-lying, heavy ground
that would bog a duck in wet weather
The capital value was assessed at almost
£6 per acre. Despite the alleged land-
hunger,” there were only 72 applicants
in the ballot for 24 blocks.
Neighboring landowners with a life-
time experience of the district assured my
friend that anyone taking the place f
at the stipulated price was headed 1
bankruptcy. They had not even bother
entering their sons for the ballot.
Doesn’t it seem that a writing-down
of land values is long overdue?
Many of our primary products ar
heavily subsidised or protected at t e
expense of the consumer. Buttei an
sugar are cases in point, and yet lan
for the production of these commodities
brings very high prices—£loo per acie
has been paid. It seems absurd that sucn
terrific prices should be paid for lan
the produce of which can’t be sold profit-
ably on the open market. It means
simply that Australians are working ana
being taxed to supply cheap butter and
sugar to overseas countries. It is equally
absurd that a Government which protests
its eagerness to settle young men on the
land should demand £6 per acre for un-
improved mixed-farming country at a
time when wheat and wool are selling a
prices that do not cover the cost of pro-
duction. —R. C. (N.S.W.).
Notwithstanding the fury of my con-
tradictors I still insist that there are a
lot of “hicks” in our rural districts, and
that it is very regrettable that they don t
take the opportunities of improving
themselves.
Who hasn’t seen the bunch of youths
who crowd round the door of a dance
hall and gape in all night? Or noticed
how, at sports meetings, there is always
a group of young men who stick to-
gether and stare at the girls ; and how
they guffaw when one of their number
does rake up enough courage to speak
to a girl? ,
Their courtship is a “grab-m-the-dark
kind, and who can blame a girl for want-
ing to get away from that sort of thing.
The worst of it is that many of these
youths come from good families, and have
had the advantage of higher education,
but in the country, where they have to
mix with everybody, they tend to descend
to the “Dave” level.
The proof of my case is that no one
denies that the best girls do leave the
farms. The result will be an intellectually
weakened, inarticulate rural population,
subject to exploitation by city interests,
thus bringing about a lowering in the
rural districts’ standard of living—ana
heaven knows it is low enough already.
—E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
Daylight-saving
The military and health authorities
are agitating for a national fitness cam-
paign. Active participation in sport is
cited as one of the means of achieving
the desired end.
Australians as a nation are fond of
games, and given the opportunity will
take part in them. Working till 5 or 6
p.m., however, doesn’t allow much time
for indulging in games of an evening,
even in the summer.
The introduction of daylight-saving
during the summer months —say from
October 1 to March 31—would give an
extra hour of daylight for sport. Com-
bined with a mid-week early-closing
afternoon (4.30 d.-s. time 3.30 solar
time), extra series of sporting fixtures
could be held, and the youth of the
nation would have several times as much
outdoor recreation as it does at present.
Apart from the financial aspect of
smaller e.-l. bills, etc., the health advan-
tages are sufficiently apparent to make
the innovation worth while. Australia
has never given the scheme a reasonable
tr i a l — a part from a brief spell after the
war. England finds it beneficial—and it
has longer hours of summer daylight.—
Chalk (S.A.).
Know Your Radio!
The owner of a radio that has chosen
to become disordered when something
particularly important, exciting, unique
or historic is being broadcast has no
doubt fervently wished he was even the
pale echo of a radio mechanic and could
apply his knowledge in an emergency.
Most of us own a friend (generally
female) whose “baby” or other species
of car invariably goes wrong when she
is beyond help of male expert, herself
having either no knowledge of the trouble
and its remedy or else that dangerous
“little knowledge” which completes the
dirty work and spells tragedy.
Why cannot we have simple courses of
instruction, at least in radio mechanics,
so that the following unfortunate occur-
rence might in future be unheard of?
Schnabel gave a recital in Adelaide on
June 20. Part of the concert was broacfi
cast from the Town Hall, and the C
Minor, Op. HI. Sonata of Beethoven was
included in the broadcast. A class ot
students who were taking a course ot
ear-training and musical appreciation
under the guidance of a talented musi-
cian listened-in to Schnabel, having


previously had the salient features of this
magnificent work explained in detail.
Unfortunately the talented instructor
was unable to cope with the eccentricities
of the wireless set, and with what the
musical reporter of the ““Advertiser” de-
scribed as “one of the greatest musical
events in the history of Adelaide” were
mingled an advertisement for tooth-
brushes, an amateur hour of unspeakable
crudity, most of the musical hits from
Chu Chin Chow” and “Uncle Bert” and
his boys’ club ; the modest efforts of all
these in conjunction with Beethoven
finally brought the sublime to the verge
of hysterical collapse.—A. A. H. (S.A.).
Christian “Science”
While not wishing to attack a mode
of thought which makes any other fellow
happier, may I suggest that the term
“Christian Science ” is a misnomer, mis-
leading numbers of people? Such people
sincerely imagine that the neighbor, “a
Christian scientist ,” is just as qualified to
treat disease as is the qualified medical
practitioner, and that the choice between
them is a matter of equally reputable
opinion. The neighbor has the advantage
of being close at hand, and the possibly
long wait in the doctor’s surgery is
avoided.
In my own past nursing experience a
police case came under notice of a de-
voted mother charged with neglect. Her
two children had had diphtheritic
throats, and she had preferred the method
of prayer and uplifting conversation with
her similarly-minded friends to calling in
the doctor and accepting the recognised
treatment. Both children died of diph-
theria.
I believe that tragedies of this type,
and others known to doctors and nurses,
could be prevented if the term “science”
were applied only to the exact studies so
named in our schools and universities,
and if the title “scientist” were also re-
served by law for those persons who
qualify by recognised training and re-
search.—F. G. K. B. (N.S.W.).
Explain, Mr. Menzies!
Isn’t it time that the Menzies Govern-
ment gave the people of Australia some
tangible idea of what its widely-adver-
tised programme consists of?
Amazement has been expressed by the
press that such a violent reaction should
be shown to the proposed national regis-
ter, but doesn’t this arise mainly from
the ignorance of the objectors owing to
lack of definite information in regard
to their duties and responsibilities if war
eventuates?
Every Australian worthy of the name
is all out for adequate defence of his
country, but he has a legitimate right
to be told:
1. What does this defence plan con-
template?
2. Whom are we arming against?
3. How far will our first line of de-
fence extend —how far north, how far
west, how far east?
If our swashbuckling daily newspapers
would help in securing this information
for the men and women of Australia
they might show some fractional justi-
fication for their continued existence as
self-appointed exponents of the inter-
national situation.—J. D. (Q.).
These Glamor-girls
We all know them ; the good, indus-
trious, thrifty, kind, sensible girls whose
faces reflect all their virtues but who (be-
cause they have no “glamor”) remain
unmarried.
Now men have always been fools
where women are concerned, but I con-
tend that they are more foolish now than
they ever were before. And Hollywood
is responsible. These days every man
wants his girl to have a face like his
favorite film star (being ignorant of the
fact that said star’s face has been surgi-
cally amended, beauty-cultured and
scientifically photographed). In films the
plain good girl is held up to ridicule, and
who knows how many have become dis-
satisfied with their girls for this reason?
The trouble is that the films are taken
too seriously. Bill and Jim should re-
member that the stars they see belong
to a different puppet world, and that to
compare their Jane and Mary with them
is fantastic folly. But who can blame
them with all the blurb and publicity try-
ing so hard to foist reality on to the
absurd marionettes of Hollywood?
E O. Reefton (N.S.W.).
Victorian Power Charges
I applied to the State Electricity Com-
mission of Victoria for service to my
farm in the Western District. The power-
line passes the property on a main road.
The commission in reply offered to
make a supply available at a point
"Lift her! We've sucked one of 'em out of plumb!”
60ft. from my title boundary for a mini-
mum payment of £lB per annum for five
years. Erection of supply-wire and wir-
ing of house would be at my expense,
and consumption cost would be added,
the latter estimated by me from the com-
mission’s quotation to be not less than ten
shillings per month. My monthly charge
therefore would be not less than £2, or
£24 a year—a very considerable sum.
From inquiries made, the minimum-
payment demand varies in different
districts, and many letters have appeared
in the papers in recent weeks protesting
against the heavy charges of the com-
mission. A State member of Parliament
raised the question in the House a short
time ago, and quoted American custom
of connecting people up free of charge
and selling them current, thereby making
huge profits from sale of current.
There are hundreds of miles of power-
lines throughout the country, but ex-
tremely few farmers are connected, for
the reason that a guarantee is more than
an average “backbone of the country” can
afford. Why should a commission deny
a public utility to the public except at
extortionate rates? It is amazing to see
these power-lines running from town to
town supplying current, with the farmers
along the lines unable to avail themselves
of such a convenience because of heavy
costs. — Farmer (Vic.).
Country Hotel Accommodation
I shoot this arrow at 6.30 a.m., having
just been awakened by the hotel useful
because the establishment requires my
bottom sheet—presumably for launder-
ing.
There will be a two-hour wait for
breakfast, but this is the least of my ob-
jections to Australian country hotels. I
take particular umbrage at the difficulty
in obtaining a hot dinner should one
happen along a few minutes after the
scheduled hour. Fortunately (for tour-
ists) a “wop” cafe is always ready to
oblige the belated traveller.
Back home (England) mine host in-
variably greets the traveller at the front
gate. A fire, a noggin of milk or
something and a steaming hot dinner are
soon on the way. Here you may shout
until you are blue in the face, and you’ll
be lucky if the useful turns out for you.
Build your hotels after the low, ram-
bling fashion of the country houses, speed
up service, and the tourists will do the
rest. As it is, everyone I meet is coming
from Australia, usually in a hurry.—
Jannell (N.S.W.).
Italians in the North
I can’t agree with “Optimist” (B.
21 /6/’39) that the Italians will not learn
to speak English. There are quite a few
Italian farmers in this district, and I find
them both anxious and willing to learn.
Some of those who have been here for
a few years speak it as well as most Aus-
tralians. If, as he says, there is 60 p.c. of
Italians in his district the process must,
of necessity, be slower. He will admit
that in any case their children must
attend our schools, where they will have
to speak English and they will, in the
course of time, become good Australians.
More British leave this country every
year than the number of British arrivals.
The German does not come any more.
I myself am the Australian-born son
of German parents. I could neither speak
nor understand English when I first went
to school. My younger brothers and
sisters never learned to speak a word of
German, and we are all good Australians.
No one gave the Italians their farms in
the North. They bought them on small
deposits and big prices from Australians
who had found the conditions in the
sugar industry too arduous for them.
By hard work they invariably manage to
pay for them and rear healthy, happy
future Australians at the same time.
So I say, if war breaks out, leave them
alone. They are not likely to cause
trouble if treated as we would expect to
be treated in similar circumstances.
If Australian people can’t or won’t live
in the North, what are we to do? Better
take a chance on having to learn Italian
to be understood in our own country
than to have to learn to speak some other
language in a country that will be no
longer our own. — Fair Play (Q.).
For the Jews
Must we assume from “Touching a
Thorny Problem” (B. 28/6/’39) that it
is the fault of the Jew in Hungary that
he represents 34.4 p.c. of doctors, 49.2
p.c. of all lawyers, etc.?
There is not a single Jew on the Hun-
garian board of examiners, only Hun-
garians and Aryans, who, as much as they
might prefer to award examination passes
to their own people, cannot very well
disregard the factual results of the uni-
versity examinations.
I suggest that anti-Jewish ideology
throughout the ages has had the result
of making the anti-Semitists unassail-
able. And as for King’s Cross becoming
a Jewish colony, what is more natural
than that foreign people should wish to
cling together, at least until they have
learned to speak English sufficiently well
to converse with Australians? In any
case, the chief difficulty lies in finding
accommodation no other Sydney
suburb can offer the same conveniences
and reasonable rentals as King’s Cross.
The Mosaic law does not forbid inter-
marriage with Gentiles, nor do the Jews
practise anti-Gentilism, as the “Daily
Express” writer suggests. Only three
weeks ago in Sydney a Jew married a
pure Aryan who had flown out from


Europe to join her fiance, and the Syna-
gogue welcomed them both.
The Jewish people are grateful to Aus-
tralia for the relief this country has
afforded to refugees. If, as has been
asserted, the Jew is commercially astute,
the only reply is that he has to be to
survive in a world that has crushed him
for 20 centuries; one will find almost a
parallel in Ireland.—Semitic (N.S.W.).
Encourage Australian Actors
Where are our actors? We have
had so-called Hollywood “stars” over
here to make pictures, all of which have
been flops. The only films made in Aus-
tralia that have had any success have
been 100 per cent. Australian.
There seem to be many contests con-
ducted by radio stations which claim to
be seeking talent, but when the competi-
tion is finished that is the last heard of
the new aspirants to fame.
There are excellent opportunities for
budding Australian actors. Something
should be done therefore to “glamorise”
them —press-agents to adopt Hollywood
methods of publicity, which, in my
opinion, would form the basis of a popu-
lar and flourishing industry to create em-
ployment for hundreds of Australian
youngsters. —W. O. D. (N.S.W.).
True Democracy
Webster defines democracy as “a form
of government in which the people exer-
cise supreme power.” Have we de-
mocracy in Australia? I don’t think so.
One of the evils of our present system,
and one totally opposed to true de-
mocracy, is that of pre-selection of can-
didates for Parliament. An elector is
often compelled to vote for a candidate
in whom he has no confidence because
that candidate belongs to a party which
favors a policy nearest to the elector's
convictions. The party system is in itself
opposed to democracy inasmuch as a
candidate selected to represent a certain
party, if remaining loyal to that party,
is more concerned with its platform than
he is with the interests of the electors.
This cannot be called democracy.
To correct this state of affairs people
must be taught to take interest in their
economic well-being. Committees of
those who claim to be democrats might
be formed, not only in the cities and
larger towns but in small country centres
also. These should be non-party, and be
able to institute a scheme for taking a
referendum on any question in their
district, the result of which would be sent
to the member representing them. In
the unlikely case of that representative
refusing to vote in favor of or to bring
forward a measure which a majority of
his electors desire, they should be granted
the power to order his recall, after which
they would have the opportunity of elect-
ing a member that would carry out their
orders. In this way we would have true
democracy—supreme power vested in
the people collectively.—A. Weaver
(S.A.).
A New Kind of Committee
One might consider that Common-
wealth and State Public works depart-
ments’ schemes are sufficiently probed by
Parliamentary committees to ensure justi-
fication for the expenditure. To my mind,
however, there is urgent need for the cre-
ation of an additional body of picked
men to work in collaboration with these
committees. I would call it the Board
of Reference for Logical Conclusions.
The members would require to be
men of vision, perception and character.
Australia is plastered with dead-end
jobs—railways, highways and water
schemes, all undertakings designed to suit
conditions years ahead of our time. These
favor the few ; the cost is borne by the
whole. Glass-smooth highways with a
traffic flow of 0.2 vehicles per hour. Rail-
ways laid with heavy plant now carrying
25-ton railcars. Great irrigation schemes
whose products saturate the markets and
leave the unhappy settler to feed the sur-
plus to pigs or burn it on his block.
The biggest dead-end show in Australia
to-day is the River Murray locking
scheme. To maintain the water in the
upper reaches, the level was raised down
stream by a series of locks costing several
millions. The first results are now to
hand.
From the air the river presents a
ghastly picture. The once great avenues
of stately gums lining the banks are now
dead —drowned in stagnant water. Their
grey-brown withered limbs, ere they fall
to foul the stream, appear as if raised to
the heavens in mute protest at man’s
infamy. Then there are the silting-up of
the main channel for hundreds' of yards
behind each barrage ; the dying fish un-
able to reach their usual , breeding
grounds; the souring of the soil in the
citrus and wine areas owing to the in-
ability of the excess water to drain back
to the river; the insidious choking
growth of the water hyacinth.
With the completion of the Mundoo
and subsidiary barrages at Goolwa (S.A.).
the stagnant conditions will be aggra-
vated. These works were designed to
prevent the tidal salting of the river and
lakes adjacent to the mouth, and in
benefiting a handful of settlers and small
graziers will adversely affect the river
throughout its course.
The logical ending to this costly scheme
is to create a deep-sea port at the mouth,
in order to make the river the great com-
mercial waterway it should be,-and to
keep the expensive .bpat locks busy pass-
ing traffic through and flushing the river.
The area surrounding Goolwa is
very suitable for large industrial under-
takings and harbor works, and, now that
the lower reaches will remain fresh, the
water could be used on the spot.
The 2\ million, probably 3i million,
to be spent in piping water to Why alia
could be expended to much greater ad-
vantage in Goolwa. Whyalla has neither
water nor fuel nor deep harborage. The
water frontages are vested in the B.H.P.
for the next 70 years, and the area is
unsuited for anything else than what it
is—a loading station for iron ore.
Let these schemes be investigated by a
tribunal such as I have indicated, and I
don’t doubt its will justify the
taxpayer naming it the Committee for
Happy Endings.—H. J. S. (N.S.W.).
It’s the Law
Life’s funny, isn’t it?
I know a girl who has been paying
income tax since she was 17. She is now
20, and earning about £4 4s. a week.
(She’s a reporter.)
But although she has been paying in-
come tax all that time, and has brains
enough to be a journalist, she is not
allowed to vote because she’s under 21!
Her young sister also has cause to com-
plain.
She passed her Leaving at 14, and then
went to work. She is holding down a re-
sponsible senior position. Her grievance
is that although she owns a car (together
with her sister) and is doing the work of
a girl of 25 she can’t get a driving license
for another year!
Both girls are sure they’re as intelligent
as some voters and drivers — Willy (S.A.).
Leaders Should Lead, Not Dominate
Since studying the views of Other
Fellows on leadership, I have endeavored
to analyse how this estimable quality is
achieved, for my experience leads me to
believe that many potential leaders have
been unlucky in not having had the
opportunity to lead. Sometimes an indi-
vidual who led an obscure existence in
one sphere or locality immediately
attains prominence after transferring to
another district. In such a case leader-
ship depends upon the intelligence and
generosity of a few in acknowledging
that person’s worth.
The Bulletin reprinted a condensed
article (10/ 5/’39) to show how the leader
of an alleged democracy made his rule
absolute by removing all who opposed
his will or were at variance with his
views, even though they were experts in
their own departments. Although murder
is not the method favored in British
countries of disposing of opponents in
political and other fields, the influence
of jealousy and intolerance has caused
the loss to us of many able men. Cliques
abound in all communities and are diffi-
cult to combat.
Repartee and oratory should not be
essential to a politician, nor social and
financial standing. Every member of a
committee or party should remember he
owes a duty to the people ; in assisting
to choose a leader he should look for
more than mere popularity. The leader
chosen need not be the whole brains of
the party ; he must be able to recognise
and encourage ability in his team-mates,
and not expect his followers merely to
follow him. Above all, he should learn
to know and to value what is in the
other fellow’s mind. —■ Walter D. Dodd
(N.Q.).
Foreigners in Australia
Being a foreigner myself, a Scandi-
navian 20 years in Australia, may I be
permitted to ask other foreigners,
especially Chinese, Greeks and Italians,
why they insist on speaking their own
language? They are all quite able to
speak English, so why not do it? By
continually speaking their own language
among themselves they will never
master English.
I went straight to the bush when 1
came out, and stopped there for three
years ; not a countryman of mine within
hundreds of miles. I could speak Eng-
lish pretty well when I went back to the
city. I haven’t spoken a word of my
own language for more than 15 years,
and only a few of my closest friends
know I’m from abroad. Am I happy
because of it? Well, I feel quite at home,
not a stranger any more, and none of
us can be really happy until we feel that
way. I am still proud of my old coun-
try, but that is no reason.why I shouldn’t
love my adopted country.—P. O. S.
(N.S.W,).
Clothes and the Man
When will the daily and certain of the
weekly rags awake to the fact that the
everyday Australian has had a surfeit of
the royal wardrobe? If they would write
a bit of blah about the royal interest in
improvements to slum areas, at . least it
wouldn’t hit the basic-wage earner in the
eye to the same extent as a recent article
in the Adelaide “Mail.”
On one page a very descriptive story
appeared (after due reference had been
made to the Duchess of Kent’s being one
of the best-dressed women in the world)
of the Duke’s numerous uniforms—dress,
undress and otherwise. On the following
page, under large headlines, was an article
to the effect that if bags were not so plen-
tiful hundreds of people in Adelaide
would perish from the cold.
The average citizen is rather enthusias-
tic about our royal family, but it is hell-
ishly disheartening to find that apparently
the only recommendation the blah mer-
chants can find fop the royal couple’s
ability to govern a country is their taste
in dress. — Mac (S.A.).
The Australian Accent
There is an Australian accent, and it
is an obstacle to clarity in speech.
The King’s English is the average
speech of the educated Englishman —
clear, with good enunciation, pure vowel
sounds and no aggressive accent. This
was the speech of George V. and is that
of the Duke of Windsor; it is also the
speech of some A.B.C. announcers as
distinct from the excessive “Oxford
accent.”
The speech of the English provinces is
not a variation of the English accent.
These have their own dialects, with their
peculiar vowel sounds and quaint usages,
providing splendid proof of England’s
complete insularity.
Accent is the individual local or
national mode of pronunciation. Hence
we have the Australian accent, which
makes “oi” out of “i,” “eo” out of “o”
(as in “cow”), and so on —a wholesale
massacre of vowel sounds. English is
the speech of Leslie Howard in “Pyg-
malion,” and Australian is that of the
flower girl in her first stage of improve-
ment.
Instead of making a definite effort to
produce sounds by the correct use of the
vocal cords, lips, teeth and tongue, the
easier method is adopted, with the result
that the teeth are often kept shut, the
tongue not controlled, the lips not used
for the formation of the various letters
and the vocal cords allowed to “slide,”
especially in the matter of vowel sounds.
Australia is perhaps too young to have
become speech-conscious, but sooner or
later we shall have to make some effort
to speak with the enunciation, pure vowel
sounds and tonal quality that give
pleasure to the hearer, and are necessary
to correct expression.— Sam Johnson
(N.S.W.).
“Discussion or War”
The statement that a modern war can
bring no benefit to either victor or van-
quished has become so commonplace
that its validity is never questioned. In
the interests of clear thinking I would
like to point out that the result of the
last war is no criterion. That war was
won chiefly by a combination of
countries representing the “satisfied”
nations who had access to most essential
raw materials and foodstuffs within the
boundaries of their own countries or
empires ; they had, moreover, ample room
to expand their population in lands
governed by their own kith and kin. It
is obvious that war could only show a
debit balance to people living under these
liberal conditions.
The position is entirely different, how-
ever, if one envisages a war in which
Germany, Italy and Japan turned out to
be victorious. It surely cannot be denied
that Japan would greatly benefit should
she succeed in gaining the virtual control
of a rich country like China as a result
of. the present war; and by the same
token a victorious Italo-German com-
bination would exploit, for their own
benefit, Eastern Europe and the Ukraine,
gain control of stragetic points in Europe,
and, in short, be in a position to carry
out any policy which seemed desirable to
them.
It is indeed, as The Bulletin pointed
out in a recent leading article, either
“Discussion or War,” for the unfortunate
truth is that a victorious war would pay,
even at modern prices, for those who re-
gard themselves as “unsatisfied” nations.
—J. N. Rookledge (N.S.W.).
Something to Laugh At
If the Australian writer takes a gloomy
view of life although his fellow-Austra-
lians are cheerful, it may be that he is
thinking of the reward he gets for his
labors.
Linage is the lowest rate that reputable
papers pay, yet- creative writers earn
little more than linage from the best of
them, and that intermittently. A fashion
writer can tour the shops and have a
good time at parties, and in doing so
earn more in one week than her literary
brother can earn in a month. A Red
Page critic once said that the creative
writer is despised by staff men in Aus-
tralia, although in other English-speaking
countries he is the highest-paid literary
worker.
The writer may well be gloomy when
he thinks of his limited markets. A short
story written for (I nearly wrote “at”)
one paper is almost unsaleable to any
other if it is not accepted.
Then there are competitions with
prizes up to £2O or thereabouts —poor
pay for a regular contributor to an Eng-
lish magazine and what our American
cousins would call “chicken feed.”
Editors seem to think that there is un-
bounding undiscovered talent lurking
somewhere, and they offer prizes to make
ir reveal itself. These prizes are bait for
plagiarists who invade the market, and
I know that some of the entries in a
recent competition were obviously taken
from English magazines and worked oyer
by persons with little skill in the despic-
able trade. It would be much better if
editors called off the competitions and
spread the money over all the work ac-
cepted in a period. Higher rates could
be advertised as an inducement to the
best writers, and the plagiarist would
soon be known.
Commercial radio stations are calling
for short plays, and they pay 10s. 6d. to
£1 for ten pages of script! I have five
of the plays out at present. Say 50 pages
at 200 words to the page, or 10,000
words. If they all sell I-shall'receive
about £3 10s. after they have been broad-
cast. No play, no pay. My postage is
3s. 4d., and each play takes three writ-
ings and a spare copy, total about 220
sheets of paper.
In my spare time I hope to write that
novel. It is the dream we all have, but
who will blame me if it is gloomy? A
typist would despise the wages I receive
if I could employ one to do the manual
work involved.— Re-hearse (N.S.W.).
Justice?
In these days of uncertainty many a
worthy man has found himself unem-
ployed.
Every employer has, of course, the
right to decide for himself whom he will
sack, and he can withhold his reason or
can tell the unfortunate employee why.
About two years ago a close relative
of mine was given the “bullet,” and at
the same time the explanation why. The
boss told him that he had given the
utmost satisfaction for about 18 years,
and that the firm was indeed sorry to part
with him. (He holds a letter from the
head of the firm stating all these facts.)
However, they would have to put off a
certain number of men owing to the
business setback. He said, the directors
had gone carefully into the matter and
had decided on certain men, my relative
being one.
The boss explained they had picked
men who had saved, or were able to
earn their living at something else. There
was quite a number of men of less value
to the firm than those they were parting
with, but if these were sacked they would
be on • the rations almost immediately.
All very'.fine for the men who spent
their wages as soon as they received
them, but what kind of justice was it for
men who had saved to buy a house and
spent their leisure time in learning a
second trade? Because they had been
decent and saving they got _ the sack.
Work was just as hard to get in one line
as another, so my relative has been
existing on odd jobs of anything that
came his way, while a less worthy mate
is getting good, regular wages.
Does it pay to do your best and save?
—Bullet (S.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
elmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman System develops personal
attributes and qualities such as:
Self-confidence Decision
Concentration Will Power
’Judgment Social Ease
and a K('liable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describ
ing Pelmanism, are posted free, on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Cr.
Market St., Melbourne. Telephone MU2355.
HORSE RUGS
Made from first-quality cotton
duck with adjustable leather
leg strap, grey wool lined and
water resisting.
Waterproof Green Due;;
5ft. Gin
33/-
Gi’t.
38/-
COTTON
28/3
30/6
Felt Lined
Freight Free
5ft. Dili.
34/-
6ft. Gin.
37/-
J)UCK
39/-
32/6
4/6! Extra
in N.S.W,
NEWMARKET
SADDLERY,
fsd
Send
for
Saddlery
Cata-
logue.
18-20 WILSON ST., NEWTOWN, N.S.W.
P'S:
rrh'' 1 ; 1
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are'
still going strong.
Has no equal —
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MAPvrs CD..
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
188 CEORCE STREET. SYDNEY
$2Jhe Challenger
KEROSENE Bath-heater
Simple to work— cheap to
run. Merely turn on water
5C light the burner for a hot
shower or bath. Write for
descriptive pamphlet—
THE HANOMAG DIESEL
TRACTOR
% 1 1111
iTfx-ikxM
f
' &&■'■■■-'
fiieL
The most
e c onomical
DEMCO MACHi
243 Cleveland St.,
Redfern, N.S.W.
NERY CO. Pty., Ltd.,
355 William St.,
West Melbourne, Vie.
“BIG SIX”
BATTERY
ELECTRIC
FENCE
CHARGER
Most economical and efficient;
governs 25 miles of fencing,
works from a safe 6-volt Bat-
tery, and has several features
not found in any other make.
Start with the best, it costs no
more than the other kind.
Write jor descriptive leaflet.
Single Wire Fence Co.,
IS9 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN BARKERS
AND BITERS
By Robert Kaleski
The Standard Australian
Book on Dogs, 256 Pages
(illustrated).
Price ...... 2/2 (post free)
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
SrOPvou ß Bhipfur@
fr
comfort.
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says
"I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
-14 DAYS FREE TRIAL-
- - -■ • ■' - —- ' '
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27). 84 Pitt Street. Sydney.
TeAtfrilMontk
Write for Booklet
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible—
No wires—No batter*es
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Suite 601K, City Mutual
Building:, cnr. Hunter & Bligli Sts., Sydney;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete,
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish,
1511.
TALKERIES,
161 C-ABTJLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
The jVEO-BAREERE for
NO PADS, NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr. L. Barrere is
the result of 40 years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success of new method
of control.
NO SPRINGS—NO PADS.
The NEO-BAERERE acts like the hand
when placed flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without effort and in all move-
ments hold the intestine in its cavity.
Call or Write To-day for FREE TRIAD.
Barrere Distribution Co. (Dept. 27),
35 I’li J STREET. SYDNEY.
m
ANYWHE RE
anytime
aHP-LI
HOME POWER UNITS
«, HIS6S » STRATTON
A small, compact
Petrol Electric
Generator/ with
everything a ear
engine lias.
300 WATTS 12 VOLTS
PRICE, £35/15/-
Write for comprehen-
sive Bulletin No. 73.
For Home Lighting
Battery Charging.
Will operate twelve
25-watt lamps.
Runs 12 hours
lgal. ol petrol.
EEC
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
1 3 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
1
Timber
Killer!
KILLS TREES AND STUMPS
Large or Small, IN 13 DATS,
FROM ROOTS TO TOP. New
Method. NO RINGBARKING
NECESSARY. Quick, Safe
and Sure. 5/fi Tin. Post Free,
with full instructions.
N.S.W. SEED CO., lIA Pitt
Street, Sydney.
CLIMBING TOMATO! Climbs to 20ft.
BEARS THROUGHOUT TJIE YEAR:
Yields TWO BUSHELS large red Tomatoes jn .•
plant. 2/6 packet. And TUBE WHITE
HEALTH TOMATO! 100 p.c. NON-AC!U
(non-mjurious), DROUGHT PROOF! DISEASE
FREE! 2/6 packet. N.S.W. S'EED CO.,
17a. Pitt Street, Sydney.
A Real
Comfort
to Smokers
The Genuine “Cavaliei
Silver-Mounted Hriar Pipe
for 5/6. Honest Value, 8/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for Hbe.
sample of “Levy sown” Qualit.
Tobacco at 7/- lb. —worth 10/- lb.
—for Cigarette or Pipe.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for 17/6; Honest Value, 30/-.
SOL LEVY,
Tobacconist, Est. 38 Yrs.
713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent G.O.D. if desired.
%
CHARCOAL GAS
SAVES 90 p.c. ON COSTS'
PractuM
Any handy man can make his own efficient gas
plant—from the crude oil drum type to the latest
design—to operate tractors, cars, trucks or any
type of spark plug engine.
No alterations to the engine are necessary, and
you can run on petrol or charcoal gas at will.
My simple plans and instructions, which can be
purchased for .cl, show you how to do the job.
If. MAHER, KiH O’Connell Street, Sydney,
f
Don't Let the BIG
FELLOW BULLY YOU
JU JITSU
T he greatest art of self-defence known.
Instructions covering the best 25
tricks explained in full, 1/3.
Also book available tit ‘,l/9.
voij CAN BE TAEEEB an 1
Stronger in 14 Days. Instructions
covering 12 lessons show you how. Good
for women and for men. Price only 1/3.
\Y RESTEING. All in and catch as
catch can, secret holds and infallible
throws. Complete instructions fully
illustrated. Price, 3/9. BOXING. Fully
sdaf
explained, specially posed illustrations.
Price, only 2/9.
H. POWJBK, Box 3384J8, 0.F.0., Sydney.
TILLEY LAMPS
sadf
300 Candle Power. British Made.
Fool proof and trouble proof.
Burn for 10 hours on 1} pints
of kerosene. Mantles tied both
ends. Will hot shake off. All
lamps fitted with PYREX Globes
and insect-proof Fittings.
Model EX4 All Purpose
Lamp, as illustrated, may
be used as a Storm Lantern,
Hanging Lamp, or Table Lamp.
Height 19 inches.
TKlt'E, 50/- Complete.
Write for Catalogue of Radiators
and Table, Wall, Vasa and Other
Lamps.
Obtainable from your local agent or
\V. Kojisen & Co. Fty., Ltd.,
70 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BLANKET BALE
POST
FREE
See what Salvage Stores now
Blanket Bale comprising: 2
Cream Double-bed Blankets.
2 Heavv-qualily Linen-finished
Double-bed Sheets, size 90 x
.80. Guaranteed 5 years of
wear. 1 Continental-designed
Silk Interwoven Bedspread,
Double-bed size. 2 Handy-size
Coloured Bath Towels. 1 Large-
size Admiralty Bath Towel. 2
Super-quality Linen-finished
Pillow Cases (large size).
Forward Postal Notes, Money
Orders or Cheques to the value
of ONX/Y 35/-
to secure this Super Bargain Bale.
MAIL ORDLR DEPARTMENT,
SALVAGE STORES, 36 YORK ST.,
I''
SALVAGE STOSS
SYDNEY
'urn
SYDNEY.
DEAF {
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. & G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
*t¥lNCH£5Tl>R
SKATES
12/6- 18/6
COWLES
and DUNN
Ji KING STREET, SYDNEY?
A PERFECT TIMEKEEPER
£5
CS*
DUSTPROOF
WATERPROOF
SHOCKPROOF
•
Ideal for Outdoors,
Sport, etc. Essen-
tially a man’s
watch. Not affected
by tropical dimes. Guaranteed 10 Years.
Usually 75/-. Special to
“Bulletin” Readers
67'6
Send for free illustrated watch and
diamond ring catalogue.
DIAMOND yj . m . ||2 MARKET ST
* WATCH SYDNEY -
SPECIALISTS OPP. DAVID JONES
LADY’S TOILET CLIPPER
5/9
Very Fine, Close-cutting,
Nickel-plated
Post Free for Cash.
5/9
W. JNO. BAKER:
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
MICROPHONES
n
Get the utmost pleasure
from your Radio Set by
fitting- a Microphone to do
your own broadcasting.
Made from standard P.M.G.
parts. Also suitable for
public address work. Sup-
plied complete with Trans-
former, Battery and Flex-
ible Cord and simple in-
structions for installing.
Original price 22/6
50 only to clear _ '
at 12/6
Post Free. '
WILLIAM BLOGG (Est. 1926),
Telephone Engineer,
Australia House, AVynyard Square, Sydney.
TARZAN’S GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
and parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
as
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tarzarr s Grip Manufacturing
00. Pty., Ltd,
Willoughby Road,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES, 1/-
,h t
THIS ONE WIRE
ELECTRIC FENCE
Parmak Electric Fencer
cuts fencing costs by 80%
. . . holds horses, cattle,
pigs, sheep with one wire.
Harmless. Hundreds in
use. Money back if not
satisfied. Write for details.
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY.LTD.
188 GEORGE STREET.. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
12/7/’39 (See Page 46)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
(..ill this out and send with your ‘'Wants’’ to the Service Department, “The Bulletin,”
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


m
mm
■
11
V”
HR
•. V ; ■ : -''
m
mm
h
■4 $$
Him
x.
m
m
• : 'r'-
' :'x"
••• y
xV
.
■ vSRSjSvSsSsTO
xxXyv-
'
M 1
swmm
Ml
ill
:
■
5
n
*
ii
>
x .jXisSSSB
msmwm
SMSM
V.-V . '.'
'
usbek
la
\RO«
3S
mm
r-M****
MADE FROM
si
NEWCASTLE STEEL
m
’
m
< '4 4 -: V h *' v '
mm
vv?*
ms& w.
wm
ii
ET
:
-
Mlsi
Irl.frV
Ros.r
ASTL
|bbkl
i
HYLANDS BROS, (adst.) PTY. LTD
WORKS: NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Head Office: 422 LITTLE COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Rylands stand behind their products
RLL-RUSTRRLIRN PRODUCTS
WAR AT AH
STEEL FENCING WIRE
BLACK OK GALVANIZED
WARATA44
IKlhelleUina
RUNS OUT STRAIGHT AND FLAT dF
"WAR AT AH'
BARBED WIRE
FOR STRENGTH AND DURABILITY
•WARATAW’
StaxL
WARATAH
HINGED JOINT FENCE
STAYS TAUT AND FIRM
"WARATAH*
MOTOR BY-PASS
THE EVER OPEN CATE
AN INVITATION IS EXTENDED TO CUSTOMERS
TO VISIT OUR WORKS AT NEWCASTLE
