

tt
99
CORRECT IN
EVERY DETAIL
•••
m
s
ill
THE LEADER—Another fine
Failsworth production, in all
the new season’s shapes and
shades. A high-grade hat
built to stand hard
wear OU/-
No matter where you buy a “Failsworth” hat, you can be
sure that every detail is correct. Height of crown, width
of brim or band, curl of brim, texture —every detail is
styled by English experts. Made by the largest
manufacturers of fine hats in England—famous
all over the world.
sadf
„ distributors for Australia: Wallace, Buck and Goodes Pty., Ltd., uhoum^,
■ •
SNAP BRIMS - TOWN HATS - COUNTRY HATS IN MIXTURES AND SMOOTH FELTS - HO
Wholesale
The Bulletin
National Service
Vol. 60.—N0. 3116.
Wednesday, November 1, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, M.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
freelance
Journalism
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 239
The Red Page
SOUTH AFRICAN NOVEL.
As spacious in a literary sense as in
its setting, Francis Brett Young’s latest
novel, The City of Gold (Heinemann ;
Angus and Robertson), portrays over 888
pages of sensuous prose the colorful
period of South African histoiy which
included the early diamond discoveries
and rushes ; the finding of gold on the
Rand and the hectic growth of Johannes-
burg (the City of Gold); Cecil Rhodes
and his Empire-planning; “Oom Paul”
Kruger and the mounting opposition and
struggle for independence by the dour
Boer settlers.
The story begins with a family of
settlers on the Rand, before there was
any thought that this somewhat poor
stretch of country would later become
known overnight as one of the richest
in the world. Even when the discovery
has been made, Johannesburg established
and the whole Rand a scene of feverish
gold-digging, the head of the family re-
mains in his original homestead, refusing
to shift, or to sell for a fabulous fortune
the homestead area of his original land
left to him by law, or to take that for-
tune himself from the ground.
Grafton —an assumed name; he had
been a convict transported to Tasmania
on a poaching charge stands in the
story as a symbol of stolid and futile
resentment of change in the developing
country. He and his wife and other
older dwellers, with their roots reaching
back through the pioneering to England,
Holland and Germany, give background
depth to the story, as their offspring—
chiefly their sons provide the sub-
sequent motifs of racial differences and
divided loyalties. •
As the Grafton boys—through their
mother and their birth in the country,
more South African than English—leave
the family hearth and go out to pursue
different fortunes in different ways the
story branches out accordingly. One son,
the most dour-tempered, is outright
Boer; supporting the Boer leaders and
fighting with them. Through him Brett
Young depicts the rising feeling against
the English; the case from the Boer
point of view. Another becomes a friend
of Cecil Rhodes, enabling the presenting
of the case from the English side. An-
other puts discretion before valor, sits
on the fence, and is despicable from
both points of view.
The one who mates up with Rhodes
also makes an early friend of a shrimp
of a Jew trader, out of Poland and White-
chapel—far and away the best character
in the book. Next to him Rhodes comes
best alive among the fairly extensive
gallery of men. He is a developed
character, which cannot be said of them
all. The women, too, though a lesser,
are a very convincing lot of human
people.
The prose flows on effortlessly:
When the bushmen who camped by the
waterholes of the Kalahari sighted these
living clouds, they leapt in the air for joy
and chattered excitedly; for they knew
from these signs in the sky that the locusts
had come and that their time of privation
was over. They picked up their tiny bows
and their quivers of poison-tipped arrows
and' ran: naked groups of yellow-skinned
pigmy men, with thin bowlegs and pro-
tuberant bellies, and their womenfolk, even
more dwarfed than they, with concave loins
and grotesquely-bulging haunches. All ran
and leapt as they went like klip-springers,
bounding from rock to rock, until they came
to the edge of the moving locust-stream
and fell on it greedily, competing with the
hungry birds that beat in their faces. They
crammed their monkey-mouths with the
living insects, cracked brittle bodies and
wings with their teeth and swallowed them
wh01e....
Not only the locust-eaters and bushmen
preyed upon them. Every four-footed
creatlire that roamed those dry plains took
its toll as they passed. Herds of springbok
and sassaby and oribi stood fetlock-deep
in the slow-moving current. They stamped
it in with their hooves and licked up
crushed locusts with their tongues, while
from the trampled mash there arose a
nauseous odor, faintly sweet and foetid.
Even the timid dik-diks, small grass-nibbling
antelopes no bigger than a hare, turned
carnivore, and ostriches came striding down-
wind to gobble their share
Mile after mile and day after day the
carnival went on—-until, of a sudden, it
seemed that the locusts became conscious of
the wings they had grown. They stirred
and stretched them. And then, with a
sound of dry rustling that was like a sigh,
with one accord they rose and took to the
air, swirling up like a dust-devil, spreading
a curtain so thick that the midday sun
could not pierce it and the land beneath
them went dark, so high that only the birds
could now attack them —as
they did, one black cloud
falling on the other and,
slashing it into holes that
were no sooner made than
they were filled.
Throughout, the landscape is magnifi-
cent, and there is vastly more story and
a far greater number and variety of char-
acters than usually go to a Brett Young
novel. The title is misleading. The City
of Gold only comes into it well on m
the book, and then the depiction of it
lacks positiveness. Brett Young is tar
more interested in the natural scene, and
nearly all the action takes place against
the background it provides.
A Novel About Shakspeare.
Though the historians and novelists
have supplied three distinct Queen
Elizabeths (Tudor vintage) they can be
blended quite satisfactorily into a lady
who rode about on a white horse in a
spectacular sort of way, who was witty
and flirtatious and did or didn’t have an
affair with Essex, and who was vain and
merciless. John Brophy brings her to
life in one sentence in Gentleman of
Stratford (Collins ; Angus and Robert-
son) when he gives her a red nose,
maliciously tinted by her serving women
when, past her prime, she would never
look at a mirror.
Real, too, is the playwright Robert
Greene, on whom, Brophy suggests,
Shakspeare modelled Falstaff; a wild,
red-bearded fellow, disappointed in his
art and losing himself in drink and the
company of thieves and prostitutes,
dying in squalor as he “babbled of green
fields.” Rough John Donne; pale, sen-
sitive Michael Drayton; Ben Jonson, as
arrogant in argument as in action; the
conceited Alleyn, Shakspeare’s first
actor-manager, who demanded ringing,
bombastic lines in the historical plays—
all these, whether or not they are
accurate portraits, are alive in Brophy’s
novel.
But Shakspeare isn’t. Avoiding the
awkward gap between Shakspeare’s leav-
ing Stratford and becoming known in
London as a playwright, Brophy tells
the familiar story of the young genius,
still confused in purpose but feeling the
need for action, leaving his native town ;
then there are scenes in theatre and
tavern, meetings with fellow-writers, rich
descriptions of Elizabethan London—
swords and squalor; love affairs, fame,
retirement to Stratford and an aged Anne
Hathaway. The setting, though not bril-
liant, is good; but Shakspeare passes
through it like a ghost.
Besides bringing him into contact with
Ben Jonson and the rest, Brophy makes
two other gallant attempts to give depth
to his portrait: he tries to build a com-
posite picture by blending possibly auto-
biographical matter from many charac-
ters in the plays, and he shows Shak-
speare in relation to three women —one,
Anne Hathaway, vouched for by history ;
the others fictitious, imagined from the
sonnets. He deduces that Prospero is
Shakspeare’s conception of himself as
an artist, while Ariel stands for his
imagination and Caliban for his grosser
self. And he is both the gay Mercutio
and the gloomy, vacillating Hamlet. No
doubt some of Shakspeare went into all
his characters; but if he is Prospero,
Ariel, Mercutio and Hamlet, he is also
Lear, Macbeth, Shylock and possibly
Bottom the Weaver. The composite
character is not a person but a crowd.
The three women Brophy gives his
hero are all very well drawn, and Shak-
speare’s pilgrimage from one to the next
is plausibly told. His marriage to Anne
Hathaway is a country idyll; forgetting
her in London he falls in love with a
titled woman who won’t reciprocate;
then there is a brief, stormy affair with
the coarse, amorous “dark woman.”
Brophy imagines that the sophisticated,
pleading sonnets were written to the first
woman; the bitter, harsher verse to the
other. When he recoils in self-disgust
from the “dark woman,” Brophy’s Shak-
speare, for the first time, becomes recog-
nisable as a personality ; or, rather, he
appears to do so until you realise that
Brophy, picturing Shakspeare writing
Hamlet in that period of remorse, has
given not an authentic study of the play-
wright but a very competent analysis
of Hamlet.
Brophy, like everyone else, can’t really
conceive Shakspeare as a person at all.
But that doesn’t stop Gentleman of
Stratford being an entertaining romance.
And Brophy’s search for autobiographi-
cal details in the plays is interesting in
itself. He suggests that a young girl
who is recorded to have drowned herself
at Stratford—her name was Kate Hamlet
—became Ophelia ; and in a malicious
broadside at the Baconians he holds that
the sententious speeches of Polonius are
a parody of Bacon’s style in his essays.
Comedy of Film Stars.
A. G. Macdonell’s play, What Next,
Baby? Or Shall l Go to Tanganyika ?
(Macmillan), was produced in London
just after the crisis of September, 1938,
and was hailed as another satire on dic-
tators. To the printed version he adds
a preface as long as the play itself to
express his surprise at such misapprehen-
sion, to prove that the play is only what
it pretends to be —a story of two rival
film stars.
The star system in the motion-picture
industry, he explains, is economical be-
cause it can be run by three people: a
glamorous star, a publicity man and an
organiser. Only one, the publicity man,
need have brains.
In this particular story the two stars,
united with sugared hatred in the com-
mon aim of scooping the film world, are
Amanda and Bianca, Bianca somewhat
the elder and a trifle passee. Their pub-
licity men are beginning to run short of
stunts, so Amanda’s decides to take her
to Tanganyika, “a pleasant little jungle
inhabited by a few surviving mastodons,
a good many remittance men; some
genuine settlers and, of course, the tsetse
fly.” There she is to make a super film
and perhaps save the life of a rhinoceros
or something like that.
When Bianca hears of it, although her
last season in Africa had not proved
popular, she insists on coming too. But
there is trouble with the Empire Market-
ing Board, which has already given ex-
clusive film rights in Tanganyika to Mr,
Vanderpants. “The Empire Marketing
Board takes very drastic action. It in-
vokes the Foreign Office. It runs around,
to Downing-street and screams for help.”
But Amanda and Bianca bring the bat-
teries of sex to bear on the Prime Minis-
ter and all is arranged. The journey to
Tanganyika begins with Amanda being
carried to the aerodrome in a golden
litter borne by ex-kings, but at sight of
the ’plane she gets cold feet and wants
to turn back. Her publicity man won’t
let her. “We’ve got our ballyhoo
machines, and we’ve invented them our-
selves, but there’s one thing we’ve never
managed to invent, and that’s a reverse
gear. We can start it, but we can’t get
it back.” The situation is saved by a
smart American businessman who soon
finds he has been done down by the
publicity man and landed with both stars
for Hollywood. Curtain.
At least a third of the play is taken
up with the mutual cattiness of Bianca
and Amanda, another third is irrelevant
jest, and the last third is more or less
action. If you subtract the double
entendre you are left with little in hand
but a few bright remarks and a maid
called Brunhilde who delivers herself of
gems such as “No woman is safe in these
horrible foreign parts. The more I hear
about them the more I wonder why any
woman stays in England.”
Thatched Cottage .
Richard Church’s Calling for a Spade
(Dent) is a very cunningly constructed
book. Superficially it is a series of essays
about escaping from London in the week-
ends to a thatched cottage in Essex, and
as such it is charming. He digs the
garden, ponders the magic of bonfires,
fights the sparrows and starlings for pos-
session of the thatch, clears the pond,
sinks a well and observes the “natives,”
rather as if they were owls or badgers.
But early in the piece the shadow of
a bomber is cast upon these quietly
humorous trivialities, and at the end,
when a military aerodrome has been con-
structed on the neighboring fields:
The swarming began. Twos, threes, half-
dozens they came; wings over Essex!
Approaching from the west, they saw their
new home from the sky and indulged in
antics of celebration, swooping, stalling,
looping over our heads, their engines roar-
ing and raging, so that the overtone rang
in a continuous, stomach-moving throb
that penetrated the very ground. Flowers
lost their reality ; the countryside became
denatured and meaningless. We went in-
doors, our personalities crushed. I am still
trying to think it over.
The aeroplanes weave the essays into
a narrative, an image of a way of life
no longer possible. It is like the familiar
“Everyman” or “Little Man” novel, but
the characters suddenly cast into limbo
by the appearance of the machines aren’t
George and Emily and the Car, but the
fieldmouse in the shaft of moonlight and
the frog that sat in the bottom of the
well that wouldn’t fill. A book “writ
small,” but writ well.
Oxford Pamphlets.
From E. E. Bartholomew, manager of
the Melbourne branch which is printing
the Australian editions, a selection of the
Oxford Pamphlets on World Affairs ,
sd. each ; on the whole, very good:
Herr Hitler’s Self-disclosure in “Mein
Kampf”: R. C. K. Ensor. A clearly
written, generally impartial analysis or
Hitler’s book in its relationship to Ger-
man national and foreign policy.
author avoids the quotations from Mein
Kampf which are now becoming hack-
neyed, finding in that curious jumble-
heap of a book plenty others for his pur-
pose, such as this from the “181st Ger-
man edition”:
A people that makes a voluntary sur-
render saps its own character; and with
such a people you can calculate that none
of these oppressions in detail will supply
quite enough reason for it to resort once
more to arms. The more such extortions
are suffered without resistance, the more
unjustifiable it comes to seem to people
to make any ultimate stand against pres-
sures, which appear each to be new and
isolated, though in fact there is a perpetual
recurrence of them.
The Fourteen Points and the Treaty of
Versailles: G. M. Gathome-Hardy. The
Points taken one by one, along with rele-
vant speeches by Wilson, and analysed to
make out a strong argument in defence
of the Versailles Treaty. Considering
the brevity of these pamphlets, a remark-
ably complete treatment.
The Treaty of Brest-Litovsk and Ger-
many’s Eastern Policy : John Wheeler-
Bennett. Shows up the German treat-
ment of conquered enemies, but also how
the greed of the Germans in the end
turned against them. The author quotes
Lenin saying the Russian soldier “voted
for peace with his legs,” and Lenin writ-
ing in his open letter to American work-
men in 1918 that “he is no socialist who
will not sacrifice his fatherland for the
triumph of the social revolution.”
The Dual Policy : Sir Arthur Salter. A
summary of the statement on Britain’s
present foreign policy and the plea for
constructive proposals for securing peace
previously put forward by the author in
his Security : Can We Retrieve It ? He
does not accept the contention that the
Versailles Treaty was just and fair. “We
should,” he says, “recognise frankly the
truth about the Versailles Treaty and
offer to substitute a negotiated for the
imposed settlement.” The pamphlet is
only a mouthful of his book, but a com-
plete enough statement.
Turkey, Greece and the Eastern Medi-
terranean : G. F. Hudson. Gives an
excellent outline of policies and events in
the Near East since 1911, with, of course,
Italy and Turkey as the leading char-
acters. Especially well done.
The Refugee Question: Sir John
Hope-Simpson. Breezes lightly over the
surface of its big subject without ever
really coming to grips with it. France
must be a polyglot nation these days:
refugees fled thither include Armenians
(“a large number”), Russians (“a very
large number”), Italians (“between 30,000
and 40,000” ; also there are altogether
“some 900,000 Italians in France”),
Spaniards (“in excess of 400,000” ; though
the bulk of them are being slowly re-
patriated, there will remain a residue
“estimated at 40,000”). France is also
numbered, with Holland, Belgium, Swit-
zerland and Great Britain, as one of the
chief countries of temporary refuge for
German Jews.
Economic Self-sufficiency: A. G. B.
Fisher. An analysis of the “autarkic”
policies being tried out in Germany and
elsewhere.
The search for autarky, in either its
simpler or its more extended form, is a
search for a will o’ the wisp. Even if it
does not lead inexorably to something like
a world State, it cannot stop far short of
an empire much more extensive than any-
thing we have yet seen. The prospects in
that case for the people who are to be
dominated are bleak and unattractive, but
the people who are to dominate will also
find their gains illusory.
And it’s not restricted to the totalitarian
countries: “We are, in fact, all more or
less tarred with the same brush.”
Living-space and Population Problems:
R. R. Kuczynski. Mainly a statistical
attack on German claims for “living-
space.” Strikes a somewhat high note
of special pleading, as against the de-
tached impartiality of most of these
pamphlets.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING ” —in
all sincerity.
"THE SENIOR STORE"
<sr«*
o °
yxx&mm x <se#m& if
SS««Si a>>»':*SPW »Jwwows
V
II
?***
i
SSSi
SSSsS
■c
O
PI
•'•V
>«s»
S**
ssss
»W*
p»
SgssfcSs
mJ
If
8
m?:
■<m
mi
*s?s
\
*K?
:
O*
HI
iSs!
m
&«S
-:x>:::---:
%
vX : : : :-:-:-- : '
m
in
■
frgs
m
G
.
m
/
Have you considered the importance of sturdy pro-
tection for your belongings while travelling? We
offer a comprehensive range of Wardrobe and
Cabin Trunks, Fitted Auto and Picnic Cases, Hat
Boxes and Rugs ... in fact, everything that is
required by the modern traveller . . . and at our
famous low prices.
A.—This is the Rug that will afford ample pro-
tection while travelling. It is of pure Wool in
serviceable Check designs. Fawn, Brown, Blue
or Grey tonings. Fringed ends. Size 80 x 60
inches. At Anthony Horderns’. Price 27/6
B.—Strong Fibre Motor Cases with two wooden
bands round body of case, and secure locks with
centre clip. Lined throughout.
Sizes, ins 26 28 30 32
Prices 22/6 25/- 27/- 28/6
C.—Always useful and made for service! Leather
Attache Case wuth leather capped corners, two
good locks and strong metal frame on body of
case. Lined throughout.
Sizes, ins 14 16 - 18 20
Prices 17/6 20/- 22/6 25/-
D.—Fitted Picnic Case made of smooth fibre and
fitted for 2, 4 or 6 persons. Obtainable in Blue,
Green, Lemon or Orange Harlequin ware with
cups, saucers and plates, two jars, salt and pepper
shakers, tin opener and stainless cutlery. Lined
washable leatherette.
Fitted for 2 4 or 6 persons
At Anthony Horderns’ 39/6 55/- 75/-
E.—Hats need all the protection you can give
them . . whether travelling or at home. These
Hat Boxes are in Horseshoe shape and are made
of fibre. Nicely lined and finished inside pocket.
Sizes, inches 16 18
At Anthony Horderns’. Prices 13/6 14/6
F.—Leather Suit Cases made of smooth, genuine
Cowhide with two secure locks, capped corners,
covered iron frame. Cloth lined.
Sizes, ins 20 22 24 26 28
At Anthony Horderns’ 37/6 42/- 45/- 49/6 53/-
G.—Merino Wool Travelling Rugs. Reversible.
Some have plain backs, other are in check de-
signs. Also popular Tartan effects. Fringed
ends. Size 80x60 inches.
At Anthony Horderns’. Price 52/6
• Travel Goods—Ground Floor—Pitt Street- —or First
Floor—George Street. Freight paid on Rugs only to
all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the
Commonwealth.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
’Phone: M 2401
Day and Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2172 C, G.P.0., Sydney


Von Big Tells of the Colorful John Robertson
OUT OF THE
PAST
THE KNIGHT OF
CLOVELLY.
J-H-M- ABBOTT
DRA WINGS BY PERCY LINDSAY.
THE Baron Von Big was a very old man when
he wrote of the following incident in the career
of that picturesque personality Sir John Robert-
son, several times Premier of New South Wales.
It comes very close to the end of the “Memoirs” be-
queathed to me at his death in 1890.
“My old friend Sir John,” he writes, “is an
interesting study, one of those exceptional men it is
impossible to forget and equally impossible to appre-
ciate at his true worth, so many depths of his charac-
ter are overshadowed by his picturesque personality
and his eccentricities. His celebrated profanities of
speech, for instance, might possibly lead any casual
acquaintance to class him as quite unpolished and un-
cultured, but he is in reality a very cultivated man,
and has cultivated nothing more carefully than the
bluff and brusque—even coarse —bonhomie that has
made him famous.
“It was some considerable time after the passing
of his well-known Land Act of 1861 that I first made
his acquaintance. I had come to Sydney from my
station in the Bathurst district in order to interview
him in somewhat indignant remonstrance against what
I considered a most serious injustice inflicted upon
myself and some of my neighbors by the working of
that measure. I had taken up my quarters at the Royal
Hotel in George-street, where I was introduced to an
agreeable gentleman, a Mr. Terence Macartney, who
was closely in touch with the Premier, and was good
enough to advise me as to the best method of
approaching him over the business with which I was
concerned.
“ ‘Do not, my dear Baron,’ he told me, ‘attempt
to see old Jack at the Colonial Secretary’s office, for
if you do I can confidently predict that you will come
away with the proverbial flea in your ear. Take this
letter of introduction and drive out to his residence
at Watson’s Bay. I am sure that you and he will get
on well together, and that he will be desirous of
further cultivating your acquaintance. Then, when
you judge the time to be ripe, make your request.
Thus approached, I have no doubt you will find Sir
John altogether amenable to reason. But be warned,
my dear Baron, that you must establish yourself in
his regard as a hearty drinker. And do not be shocked
at his language. It means nothing—nothing what-
ever.’
“ ‘Well, Mr. Macartney,’ I laughed, ‘if a survivor
of the drinking days of the Regency, and of those of
On to his knees slumped the young man
in the- grey prison clothing. We stood in
awe-struck immobility, looking down at
the fellow as he kneeled on the stones.
the goldfields in this country, cannot hold his own
with any old statesman, I will give up drinking alto-
gether. And I am not easily shocked, let me assure
you. I will ride out to Sir John’s residence this after-
noon.’
“IT was a glorious day as I rode between the tea-
* tree-covered swamps behind Rose Bay and the
half-moon of white sand along the New South Head-
road. Up the hill behind Mr. Wentworth’s Vaucluse
estate I climbed, and turned into the gully behind the
Macquarie Light down which the road descends to
Watson’s Bay, where stood Sir John’s residence, a
picturesque building of sandstone, which he had
named Clovelly House.
“I handed my horse to an urchin sunning him-
self on the sands, and entered the garden, which was
shaded by several immense Moreton Bay fig-trees and
was a bower of hollyhocks and other lovely English
flowers. From the verandah I was hailed in no polite
fashion, before I had become aware of anyone’s pres-
ence, in a most peculiar, snuffling, highly-pitched voice.
‘Who the hell are you ?’
“Drawing myself up, I cast my eyes in the direc-
tion whence this uncompromising inquiry had pro-
ceeded, and became aware of a hook-nosed, red-faced,
white-headed and billygoat-bearded old man who had
risen to his feet from the depths of an easy chair, and
was regarding me fiercely from a position by the
front door.
“ ‘A fine day, Sir John,’ I said, advancing up the
pathway of broken seashell. ‘A pleasure to meet you,
sir.’
“ ‘To hell with the fine day! What the devil do
you want? And who the hell are you?’
“ ‘My name, sir, is Augustus Von Big—at your
service, Sir John,’ I replied equably, undaunted, though
a little surprised, by this strange reception.
“ ‘Oh, you’re that big German baron I’ve
heard so much about in the west, are you? Never
well met you before, but glad to see you, Baron.
What the blazes is the matter, then?’
“ ‘I have a letter, sir, from Mr. Terence Macart-
ney,’ I replied, handing it to him as I stepped up
on to the stone-flagged verandah.
“ ‘Oh, old Terry! Let’s see what that
old rascal’s got to say, then.’
“He presently crammed the letter into a trouser
pocket, and held out a gnarled hand. ‘ glad to
meet you, Baron. Come in and have a drink.’
“So we went in, and had many drinks of exceed-
ingly good whisky, and Sir John was very genial,
cursing and swearing heartily all the time, damning
his own eyes and mine with impartial liberality, and
ever and anon beseeching the Almighty to strike either
of us dead, as suited the occasion. Nowhere else in
all the far-flung British Empire, I felt quite sure,
was there a head of a responsible Government quite
like this.
“ ‘God damn my soul, Baron,’ he cried out, after
more than an hour of this unintermittent drinking,
‘l’ve got to go into that Legislative Assembly.
Will you ride with me? I’ve had enough of the
waters of Port Jackson for one day.’
“He rang a bell, and gave orders to a man-
servant about the saddling of his horse and the bring-
ing to him, there in the dining-room, of certain articles
of apparel. When these latter arrived he made no
fuss about changing into them in front of me, enter-
taining me the while with a lurid account of the morn-
ing’s adventure which had prejudiced him temporarily
against travel by sea.
“ ‘My colonial oath, Baron,’ he cried, ‘never had
such a surprise in my life. House rose early this
morning, and I rode home. Had a drop of whisky,
and went to bed. Pretty drunk, I think. Had
breakfast in bed, and some more whisky, and then
well remembered I had to go into the office to
sign a request to the Governor about that
fellow Gallagher who’s booked to be hanged to-
morrow morning in Darlinghurst. Got dressed, and
thought I’d go by the ferry. Quicker. Walked
on to the pier, where there’s a bit of a crowd
of the yahoos who live down here waiting for the
steamer, reading the “Herald” as I went
along. No rail at the end of the jetty, so I
walked over the end of it into the harbor!’
“ ‘My dear Sir John!’ I exclaimed, holding up my
hands in horror. ‘You might have been drowned!’
“ ‘Drowned be damned! Swim like a fish.
Bit of a shock, though. Lost my hat, but some
found it. There it is—good as new.’ He indicated
the most disreputable old ‘topper’ I have ever seen.
‘Have another drink, Baron. Long ride before
you—seven miles, they call it.’
“ ‘And how did you get out, Sir John? I suppose
there was wild excitement on the jetty?’
“‘Too much excitement! I could see ’em
rushing round with boathooks and throwing life-
buoys like a pack of demented dingoes. Not
having any of that sort of thing. No —*— fear!
So I swam into the middle of the bay and landed on
the beach, out in front of the house there. Half a
dozen of the fools there to meet me, and one of
’em says, “Oh, Sir John, you shouldn’t have done
that; a shark might have got you! ” “Damn your
eyes,” I told him ; “I’d sooner a shark than you
fools sticking your boathooks into my
starn! ” ’
‘ < pRESENTLY we rode away from Clovelly, the
* doughty old knight, thin and wiry-looking, and
quaint beyond description in a black' broadcloth
frock-coat and his battered top-hat, mounted upon a
well-bred grey mare, of whom he spoke in enthu-
siastic terms of lurid admiration.
“ ‘The best horse I’ve ever had,’ he shouted,
leaning forward and patting his sleek neck when I
complimented her excellent paces. ‘A treasure!
When I ride home after a late night in the
Assembly, I can sleep in the saddle all the way. What
d’ye well think o’ that, Baron?’
“Twice we alighted at wayside hostelries, and a
third time at a public house near the top of William-
street. Having absorbed a couple more whiskies,
we mounted again and were moving off down
the hill. It was nearly sunset by this time. Suddenly,
Sir John emitted a loud oath, and drew rein.
“ ‘By God! ’ he shouted, ‘they hang the at
nine to-morrow morning. I must ride over to the
gaol. God damn my eyes and strike me dead! The ——
wretch deserves the rope,
but the Executive Council’s
well decided not to
hang him, so I must go tell
’em. Will you come with
me, Baron?’
“We turned our horses’
heads up Victoria-street,
and rode across the suburb
of Darlinghurst to the gaol.
At the huge gateway we
found a fellow to hold our
horses, and the Premier
hammered loudly on the
solid - looking wooden
double doors giving en-
trance to the interior of the
prison. Presently a small
wicket opened in the left
half and an irate warder
poked out his head.
{Continued on next page.)


“ ‘Here, what’s all this row?’ he cried.
“ ‘Never mind the row, my man. Send for
the governor, and be quick about it. I’ve no
time to stand here all the flaming night.’
“ ‘Oh, beg pardon, Sir John —didn’t know it was
you. I’ll send across to the governor’s house at once.
Pray step inside, Sir John. Is this gentleman your
friend, Sir John?’
“ ‘Of course he’s my friend! Think Igo
galloping about with every Tom, Dick and Harry
who rides a horse in Sydney? Baron,’ he turned to
me, ‘the governor’s a baronet, a good
fellow. He’ll give us a drink. Damme, I’m as dry
as a kiln.’
“Shortly we were shown to the office of Sir Vero
Read, the governor of Darlinghurst, and the baronet
presently set further refreshment before us on his
sideboard.
. “ ‘And to what, Sir John,’ he asked amiably, ‘do
I owe the honor of this visit?’
“ ‘Hanging Gallagher in the morning, aren’t you?’
asked Sir John.
“ ‘The sheriff, Mr. Cowper, is to execute his war-
rant in the morning, Sir John. Yes, we’re hanging
Gallagher at nine o’clock.’
“ ‘Well, you’re well not hanging Mister
Gallagher, Vero, my boy, so don’t look so glum.
He’s to be reprieved. I’m to see his Excellency this
evening. Sorry you’ll have to find board and lodging
for the , but there it is. Sorry not to have given
you longer notice, but I fell into the harbor this
morning, and forgot all about it.’
“ ‘Oh, well, if you’ll excuse me, Sir John, I’ll
hurry off and let the poor, devil know. Pray help
yourself to another drink. I’ll not be long.’
“ ‘We’ll have the drink, Vero, but I think
we’ll go with you. Come with us, Baron. I think
this Gallagher comes from your part of the
country. He’s lucky. I was all for stringing him
up, but they outvoted me in the Council. Too
soft. However, swallow your drink and we’ll break
the glad tidings to Mister Gallagher.’
<<U/E followed the governor across the yards, and
** were admitted to the wing in which is situated
the condemned cell, only a few paces from the en-
trance to the narrow courtyard in which the gallows
stands, facing the rearward, or eastern, wall of the big
prison. Gas jets illuminated the stairway by which
we ascended to a gallery serving a higher tier of cells.
Sir Vero tapped on one of the doors, and spoke
through a little grating to the warder inside.
“‘A reprieve, Jackson,’ he whispered. ‘Let us in.’
‘“Oh, thank God, sir!’ I heard the warder
whisper. ‘Thank God!’ Apparently, the hanging of
a man is no great pleasure, I reflected, to those con-
cerned in it.
“We entered the condemned cell, part of which
is divided off from the rest of the large apartment to
accommodate a watching warder. Seated on a stool
was a pale and miserable man, and standing beside
him a stout priest. The governor beckoned to him,
and whispered as he tiptoed across the stone flags.
‘A reprieve. Tell him, Father. The Premier himself
has brought it. Gallagher’s not to hang. Tell him —
I leave it to you.’
“Never shall I forget the big, wistful eyes of that
pale, unhappy young man. He stared at us with fear-
ful gaze. ‘Not yet ?’ he whispered hoarsely.
“‘Glory be to God, Johnny,’ cried the joyful
priest, his jolly face breaking into the happy smile
that one knew was its wonted aspect—‘your life is
spared. Down on your knees, my son. Sir John,’ he
turned to the Premier, ‘may Almighty God bless you
for this merciful decision. The lad’s worth saving.
God bless you for it!’
“On to his knees slumped the young man in the
grey prison clothing. ‘Oh !’ he gasped, and fell to sob-
bing. We stood in awe-struck immobility, looking
down at the fellow as he kneeled on the stones. His
strong young shoulders shook as he gasped for breath.
Presently Sir John spoke, huskily. ‘Come, Vero,’ he
said to the governor. ‘I think you should ask us
to have a drink. Send him up one, too.’
“It was the only sentence I ever heard the old
Knight of Clovelly utter without an oath.”
“FIGHTING MAKES A MAN OF YOU”
BY DON EDWARDS.
HE sat near the kitchen door watching his father
and mother, but pretending to be looking into
the tiny yard with its dilapidated paling fence.
He felt excited and afraid, so that his fingers
moved nervously and spasmodically and his bare toes
traced aimless patterns on the worn linoleum.
Every now and then he would glance at his father,
and his father would wink knowingly and cause him
to look quickly at his mother. She was busy at the
stove, but once she turned, just as his father nodded
and winked at him, and he thought that she had
noticed. If she knew what his father intended to do
she would stop it quickly. “We mustn’t let your
mother find out,” his father had said to him severqj
times that morning.
He hoped she would sense that there was some-
thing afoot, for now that the affair was so close he
didn’t want to have anything to do with it. He was
afraid. It was all right for the rest of them. He
looked up hopefully when his mother spoke, but she
only said, “What are you sitting about the house for,
Jimmy? Why don’t you go out and play?”
“He’s going soon ; aren’t you, Jim?” his father
said, and winked slyly at him again. He tried to
smile back, but the reply he attempted was only a
mumble.
Staring intently at his feet he tried to concentrate
his thoughts on the advice his father had given him,
but all he could think of was Mr. O’Neill’s raucous
laughter and the cheeky grin on Ken O’Neill’s face.
The sound of insistent coughing made him glance
up at his father and see him nod towards the clock.
The time was two o’clock. He walked out of the
room and round the side of the house to the street. At
the corner, near the boot factory, he stopped. He
had half a mind to run away, but the thought of what
the others would say and of what his father would
do to him made him wait. Presently, he saw his father
coming.
“How are you feeling, Jim?” he asked, and
winked again.
Pretty good, dad,” he replied, but there was a
tremor in his voice that he could not subdue. His
father didn’t seem to notice it.
He walked beside his father, his bare feet pad-
ding d quick accompaniment on the pavement to the
sharp notes of his father’s boots. Several times he
looked back, expecting and hoping to see his mother
following them. She generally discovered everything,
but this time it looked as if she knew nothing. He
felt sick, with a hollow, weak feeling in his stomach
and a dryness in his mouth. Perhaps he was only
excited, not afraid. At the corner, where the street
ran into the busy road, he glanced back again quickly.
His father towered above him, big and broad-
shouldered. He hoped he would grow up to be as big
and strong as his father. He looked at his father’s
cauliflower ear, a blob of flesh, and at his broken nose
that gave his face a fierce expression. He bet that
people would always be scared of you if you had cauli-
flower ears and a broken nose, because they would
know you were a fighter. He bet there was no one
game to give his father cheek, for even if his father
didn’t fight at the Stadium now he had been one of
the best fighters in the town. He remembered seeing
him beat “Tiger” Gibbs and how proud he had felt
when “Tiger” went down for the count in the tenth
round, and how angry his mother had been when
they had reached home and she had heard that he
had been to the fight.
Down near the shops there were a lot of people
about. They nodded to his father and said, “Hullo,
Jimmy,” to him, and he imagined he could hear them
saying “That’s Bill Bayliss and his boy.”
He hunched his shoulders and strode along de-
terminedly, but occasionally he would remember, and
then he would seem to shrink and his legs would
become weak.
He tried to interest himself in the shop windows,
but somehow he couldn’t keep his thoughts away from
what his father had planned. Even at lunch-time he
had been too excited and worried to eat, so that his
mother had said, “What is the matter with the boy?”
and his father had replied quickly, “Nothing, Gwen;
you always expect him to eat too much.”
At the Post Office his father saw him look at the
clock, and he said, “Plenty of time yet, Jim. We don’t
want to be early. Let them wait a bit,” and laughed
in his loud, hearty way.
The walk had warmed him, and he seemed to
take confidence from his father’s manner. They turned
out of the main road into a narrow street. “This
isn’t the way,” he said.
His father winked at him and replied, “We’ve
got plenty of time. Wait here awhile for me.”
He watched his father go into the hotel. Minutes
passed, and standing in the quiet street he began to
concentrate his thoughts on what was to follow and
imagine what could happen. He became cold and he
shivered. A couple of men spoke to him as they
entered the bar, saying, “See you later, kid.”
He tried to smile knowingly at them, but he was
afraid to speak, fearing that his voice would betray
his feelings. The vague feeling of sickness that had
been with him all day became more intense.
Perhaps his father would get drunk and forget to
come out. Once before his father had got drunk and
forgotten all about him. Then the doors swung open
and his father came out with another man.
“Think I was never coming, Jim?” he said; then
to the other man, “He looks pretty good, doesn’t he?”
The other man waved at him cheerily and shouted
“I’ll be seeing you later, Jim.”
He followed his father down the street and over
the railway bridge. Near the bay they passed the
Stadium. There were immense placards on the walls
showing boxers shaping up to each other to advertise
the next Saturday’s fight. His father looked at them,
and slapping him heartily on the back said, “Ah, Jim,
fighting makes a man of you.”
He didn’t reply. They had left the road and were
walking across the park towards a tree-covered head-
land that jutted into the bay. By now he was walking
in a sort of daze, unaware of anything but the clumps
of bushes ahead, until his father said, “Come on,
you’re not scared, are you?”
“No,” he replied loudly, “why should I be
scared?”
They followed a faint track through the trees and
between the rocks till suddenly they entered a small,
clear hollow that was occupied by a dozen or so men
and several boys. He spoke to the boys and looked
round for Ken O’Neill.
His father shouted to the men and asked whether
O’Neill and his brat had arrived yet. “Scared, I sup-
pose. Wouldn’t be surprised if they didn’t turn up at
all; eh, Jim?”
They waited. He sat on a rock and listened to
the talk, and thought of how sick and nervous he felt,
till some one said that O’Neill was coming. He
couldn’t get rid of that hollow feeling in his stomach.
He saw O’Neill and Ken walk into the group.
Ken was laughing and talking a lot and he seemed
to have grown.
“Hullo, Ken,” he said, but the boy only glared
at him and did not reply.
“We’ll soon take that look off his face, won’t we,
Jim?” his father said, and the men laughed.
He felt so weak that he wondered how he would
be able to stand up. He wished he had run away
when his father was in the hotel.
His father came across to him, forced a pair of
boxing-gloves on his hands and started to lace them
up, talking to him all the while, and saying, “Remem-
ber what I said, Jim. Straight left all the time. Keep
poking it out and he can’t hit you. Use your feet, and
don’t forget that right feint.”
L_J IS arms and legs felt heavy as iron, his body light
* * as air. He was in a daze. There was a confused
murmur of voices about him and a blur of faces.
Somehow he found himself facing Ken O’Neill. He
made no attempt to defend himself. Ken hit him on
the face and the blow hurt him and roused him to a
mad anger. He rushed at the boy, swinging his arms
wildly and quickly, but without much effect. Once
he felt his fist strike something soft, and he fought
more wildly. The men roared. He could hear his
father shouting, but he didn’t know what he was
saying; he only knew that he wanted to hurt Ken
because the boy had hurt him. Then he felt someone
dragging him towards the big rock where he had been
sitting.
His father was at his side speaking urgently, “You
young fool. Keep your head, and push out your left
hard, or he’ll be beating you.”
As he walked out again for the next round his
father repeated “Push out your left.”
His inclination was to rush madly at the other
boy, but he kept control of his anger. He saw Ken
swing at him, and jabbing out his left hard he hit
Ken in the face. He was surprised and pleased. This
was easy. Ken rushed at him wildly, but he punched
him in the face with his left again and repeated the
blow before he could draw back out of range. He
heard his father applauding him, saying, “Good boy,
Jim.”
At the end of the round his father said, “Later
on try that right feint,” and at once he decided to use
it as soon as possible.
He felt so confident that he was pleased when
the fight started again. Every time he jabbed with his
left hand he hit the other boy, who was swinging his
arms wildly. Then he feinted with his right and hit
out with his left, as his father had taught him, and
caught his opponent flush on the nose. He saw Ken
drop his arms, watch the blood trickle from his nose
and start to cry.
The crowd began to laugh. His father came up
to him and said, “I guess that ends it. Good boy,
Jim.” Then he saw his father go over and collect a
pound note from Mr. O’Neill.
The hollow, sick feeling had left his stomach, and
he felt exhilarated and confident as if he had sud-
denly grown and gained strength. He was pleased
he had beaten the O’Neill boy, pleased his father had
won a pound, pleased he had seen the fight out.
“Fighting makes a man of you,” he heard his
father say, and he was almost sorry that the fight was
over.
On the way home several men spoke to him, and
a couple of boys said “Hullo, Jim.” He wished they
had been there to see him beat Ken O’Neill, but they
would hear about it soon enough.
Passing the Stadium he said to his father, “It
must be good to fight in there.”
His father laughed, and said, “We’d better hurry
home. Your mother will be wondering what has hap-
pened.”
He could see his mother waiting for them at the
front gate, and he knew at once that something was
wrong. As soon as they came up to her she started
to rouse on his father. The man next door had been
at the fight and had told her about it. She hated
fighting. Suddenly she turned from his father to him,
and scolded, “You should have more sense. What do
you mean by fighting?”
“Aw,” he said easily, “fighting makes a man of
you.”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
ffbil H^ne^cf'Wie melltnmcMandlxmqiiei
MEDMENHAM ABBEY.
All or nearly all overseas visitors to London make the journey to Henley-on-Thames, “the Mecca of rowing men and Valhalla of
the houseboat party,” as J. Ivo Ball, M.A. (Oxon.), once happily described it. But few, if journeying on the river amid scenes of
surpassing beauty, halt some four and a half miles before reaching Henley at Medmenham Abbey, modernised, though still beautiful,
nestling close to the water’s edge. Here is a place that will live in history for much that happened in the eighteenth century, happily
of a character for which no counterpart may be found. In the olden days it was an abode of the Greyfriars, but afterwards of “monks”
of a vastly different kind. So far back as the twelfth century the monks founded a community here, small, it is true, but so well
conducted as to escape the censure of Bluff Harry’s Commissioners. Humble as it was, “closing was its fate.” The walls in after days
strengthened, the place became a family dwelling, remaining so for centuries. Towards the middle of the eighteenth century a nobleman
of celebrity and wealth resolved to found an order of monks in keeping with the character of the times. Accordingly he blasphemously
chose twelve companions, not, however, from the poor and unlearned, but from men of rank and fashion and literary fame, who took the
name of Franciscans, Francis being the Christian name of their “superior.” The Abbey was chosen for the practice of their “devotions.”
“Fay ce que voudras” was the motto inscribed over the door, and these “monks” did what they pleased. In a word, the rites were an
overwrought mockery of the religion of the land, and the practices a formal and deliberate repetition of the worst debaucheries
ever attributed by imaginative writers to real monks, with such additions as the greater genius of their successors suggested. The account
in “Chrysal, or the Adventures of a Guinea” is horrible, even allowing for exaggerations, and it is difficult to conceive how any human
beings, however degraded, could have devised a scheme of such coarse, cold-hearted, elaborate impiety. Francis Dashwood, Lord
le Despenfor, was the founder of the order, and among the members were the Earl of Sandwich, the Hon. Bubb Doddington, Wilkes,
Churchill and Paul Whitehead. Every trace of these “Franciscans” was after their “dissolution” carefully removed, and Medmenham Abbey
became again a peaceful, pleasant dwelling.


BOGGED.
“It’s too damned quiet on the Western Front.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia; Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire ): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
NATIONAL SERVICE.
Colossal expenditure on defence does not mean a
defended country. No robot capable of working the
guns and machines having so far been invented, there
is still no substitute for men; and they need to be
trained men. Hopes of keeping the militia strength
up to 75,000 by voluntary enlistment were so much
eyewash; that figure was reached only by a spec-
tacular appeal launched by Mr. Hughes, a vigorous
and experienced recruiter; a year hence, 'with the
voluntary method still relied on, even that inadequate
force would have been down to quarter-strength.
If it had no other reasons than those an honest
Australian Government would have introduced com-
pulsory national service. For ensuring national
security it was needed in time of peace ; with Aus-
tralia now embarked on a war the possible course,
effects and battlefields of Which are unpredictable, it
has become vital. The only fault that can be found by
anyone who has regard for this country’s safety is that
the measure is restricted; the Menzies Government,
by some process of reasoning peculiarly its own,
exempts all men over 21 from what should be a
common duty of every able-bodied man —not -the
most, but the very least, that can be asked of him.
The Prime Minister apologetically explains that
the purpose is to keep the militia strength up to 75,000.
Why 75,000? If the fear voiced by the P.M. regard-
ing this war’s possible development should become
reality, every man physically capable of holding a
rifle or throwing a hand-grenade will either be fight-
ing or up a hollow log. Mr. Menzies has said that
“Great Britain, the Dominions and France might soon
be defending their existence against almost the whole
world.”
We do not yet know what our responsibilities will
be in our own territory. In the last war there was never
any question of attack on Australia, but we are not in
that happy position to-day. In the last war Russia,
Italy and Japan were our allies. They are not our allies
to-day, and we do not yet know who our enemies
may be.
That must be taken as a scrupulously honest and
thoroughly informed warning to the people of Aus-
tralia of what they may be up against. It cannot be
taken that Mr. Curtin and his following, who are
opposing even this restricted form of national service,
are better informed or more honest than Mr. Men-
zies. In neither their utterances nor their general
opposition is there evidence that they are concerned
about Australia’s safety; there is considerable evi-
dence that they are not above making spurious poli-
tical capital out of its peril. They are concerned
about their own academic conceptions and definitions
of abstract terms such as “liberty” and “democracy”
which have no precise meaning; they still delude
themselves with the fantasy that Australia’s luxury
existence productively rich, hopelessly under-
populated and shamefully defenceless —can go on
unmolested for ever. Even the fact that this country
is at war, faced with a prospect that Mr. Menzies
has not overstated, has not reached into the cloudy
places they inhabit.
And that is what Labor in Australia —as repre-
sented by Mr. Curtin and his following and by the
A.C.T.U. —has come to. It was a Labor Government
that suspended national service, and in that and other
respects reduced Australia’s defences to the level
measured by the huge expenditure and other desperate
efforts in recovery made over the past year or so.
That was Federal Labor’s contribution to Australia’s
safety in time «f peace ; and war now finds it just
as incapable of facing realities. It is time politicians
were required to pass an elementary examination in
statesmanship. More urgently, it is time the adequate
defence of this country was finally established on a
permanent basis, out of the reach of future Scullins
and all such disastrous meddlers.
Mr. Curtin protests, “on behalf of the Labor
party,” that “the Government has been guilty of gross
mismanagement of the voluntary system.” Even if
that could be proved—the increasing of the militia
strength 75,000 was a pretty good performance —
such criticism would still ring hollow coming from
the inheritor of Mr. Scullin’s threadbare mantle.
The party is irrevocably and unequivocally opposed
to any departure from the voluntary system of training
the men of Australia.
“The men” is particularly good ; but the whole state-
ment —at a time when Australia is at war, with in-
vasion possible—shows such an utter disregard for
the safety of this country that it could only be excused
on the assumption that Mr. Curtin is just a pathetic
politician given over to daydreams. That makes
him and his kind none the less dangerous. This, is no
time for nice politeness. The prospect facing Aus-
tralia is menacing. If Mr. Curtin has proof to the
contrary he should take steps to correct the Prime
Minister; if he hasn’t, he is cutting a paltry figure.
Mr. Curtin and his following have a poor case,
and their utterances are in keeping with it. “Never,”
declares Mr. Curtin, “has there been a greater sham
than that compulsory military training is democratic.”
What is the first requirement of government but to try
to ensure the survival of the country and the women,
children and the rest inhabiting it? By what process
of Curtinian reasoning is the democratic system of
government exempted from that primary obligation?
People live under the democratic system in peace
and comparative liberty only by virtue of innumerable
compulsory submissions. To single out compulsory
education, as Mr. Menzies and Mr. Curtin have done,
is not only to expose the mental level of the debate
but cloud a simple and clear issue. Compulsory edu-
cation is only one of a hundred forms of compulsion
daily accepted and submitted to. Mr. Curtin and his
following accept these, and when in power enforce
them; there would be no ordered society without
them. But not compulsory national service towards
ensuring the survival of that society! What a con-
ception of the democratic system! If this country
was at peace, if the British Navy that was able
to safeguard its sheltered existence hitherto was not
otherwise occupied, if there was no threat of invasion,
that conception would still be fraudulent and hollow.
Taken as implying that compulsory military
training is undemocratic, Mr. Curtin’s moonshine is
even worse. He can “see no reason why Australia
should adopt totalitarian practice.” Are Britain,
France, Belgium, Switzerland, Holland, Norway,
Sweden outside the pale in Mr. Curtin’s conception
of what is democratic and what is not? With the ex-
ception of Britain —a recent addition —those democ-
racies have all had compulsory national service for a
considerable time. They all adopted it towards ensuring
survival, and in none of them has it proved incom-
patible with the democratic spirit or the democratic
system of government. Describing it as “totalitarian
practice,” Mr. Curtin resorts to the cheapest of poli-
tical ruses.
Mr. Curtin, if he refreshes his mind on the
Defence Act, will know that the measure introduced
by the Government is no more unconstitutional than
it is undemocratic; no doubt he knows it already,
despite the claptrap he has been uttering. He pro-
fesses to believe that “compulsory military training is
directed at training a special age-group to become effi-
cient and make coerced sacrifices for the rest of the
nation.” Mr. Curtin knows better than that. Opening
of Part IV, Defence Act:
All male inhabitants of Australia (excepting those
who are exempt from service in the Defence Force)
who have resided therein for six months and are British
subjects and are between the ages of 18 and 60 years
shall, in time of war, be liable to serve in the citizen
forces.
So much for Mr. Curtin’s “special age-group.”
It stretches from 18 to 60; so the objection boils
down to one against the training of any of that
“special age-group.” In the Curtinian conception it is
democratic to collect the cost of the rifle, gun, tank
and aeroplane by compulsion; it is not democratic
to train men compulsorily to use those weapons and
machines towards ensuring the survival of their democ-
racy. If it comes to what Mr. Menzies has warned
Australia may very possibly lie ahead, these demo-
cratic patriots would have the fighting done by un-
trained men. Many thousands of splendid Austra-
lians who volunteered for a war for which they had
no training are not available to voice an opinion on
this sickly folly, but there are thousands of others
who will tell Mr. Curtin and his following that send-
ing untrained men to war is murder. In this issue
they back Mr. Menzies to a man. So do all others
who put the survival of this country before paltry
political or personal considerations.
War Strategy and Aims.
In one of the remembered Great War cartoons a
trench-grimed poilu said to his mate, We 11 win it
the civil population holds out.” No doubt the children
of the poilus are saying the same thing to-day, and it
has a greater application to the present situation than
it had at any period of the Great War down to August
8, 1918. . .... , ,
Along with a just cause, the Allies have brave
armies, navies, air forces and mercantile marines,
armed, munitioned, supplied and financed against
any emergency. Victory may depend upon mecapa-
city of their peoples to endure everything that the last
generation endured and more ; to show unflagging
courage in all its forms. . .
For us, the war began with a lost campaign in
eastern Europe, as was the case 25 years ago. Ihe
Poles were defeated as rapidly as the Russians were
defeated in 1914 and the Rumanians in 1916. Ihe
sequence of events was too swift for the tellers ot fiat-
tering tales to practise their art in their highest style,
but the French manoeuvres on the Western Front gave
them opportunities of which they took characteristic
advantage. ’ .
At the end of September, they said, the French
were “exercising pressure in the form of a pince s
movement against the central fortifications of Saar-
brucken.” They had “surrounded three-quarters of
the city” and its fall could be “expected shortly.
If the Germans do not abandon it soon they wit
run the risk of being cut off from the mam Siegtri
Line, several miles behind the city. _ ,
“Complete evacuation of the mining region ha
“begun.” “The continuous German retreat was jus-
tified by neither tactics nor strategy.” General
Gamelin had “brought the army into a perfect otten-
sive and defensive position,” an achievement wnic
would “shortly be followed by full-scale hostilities. In
the process 50 German villages had been occupied.
The truth is that the attack was not seriously
pressed nor was it seriously resisted. In substance it
was merely a feint, the object being to relieve the
pressure on Poland. Such fighting as occurred was
done by small forces, with small loss on either side.
That was the position till October 16, when the
enemy went forward on a 20-mile front. He encoun-
tered only “light advance troops” who “fell back, in
accordance with orders.” “Divisions involved in the
September offensive” had “already been withdrawn,
the whole of the necessary movements” having been
“completed by October 3” —a day Australians
were informed that Saarbriicken was almost sur-
rounded by French troops” and was fall
very soon,” and two days before the French, “cover-
ing 60 miles of front,” were “slowly their
flanking movements to capture industrial cities,” and
also “slowly and surely nibbling into the Westwall,
finding it “not so impregnable as Hitler thought.”
On October 25, the retirement was pronounced by
the soberest of Our Military Correspondents “a strategic
withdrawal to the line of the French frontier, clearly
indicating the decision of the High Command to take
up winter quarters, and thus be in a position to
depend on the permanent parts of the Maginot Line.”
The Military Correspondent added: “There is no
reason why the Allies should embark on a hazardous
offensive at this stage.”
No reason whatever, and, since winter approaches
and the autumn rains have been exceptionally heavy,
it seems improbable that either side will start a
hazardous offensive” till spring sets in. Whether the
war can be won without defeating the enemy in the
field is another matter. Captain Liddell Hart, whose
theories have captured the newspaper experts, if not
the French and British Commanders, is of opinion
that it can be. He thinks that by “pursuing the mirage
of decisive victory on the battlefield” we might lose it.
“A successful offensive,” he says, requires “at least
a three-to-one superiority, not so much in numbers
of men as in power units, measured by fire-power
multiplied by mobility of artillery, tanks and aircraft.”
This superiority we do not or may not possess; “the
Franco-British game is therefore to sit tight, conserv-
ing man-power and resources, while the dashes
himself to ruin against impregnable defences.” ( It is
improbable that the enemy has the required “three-
to-one superiority in power-units,” but it is taken for
granted that his situation obliges him to make a light-
ning war of it and thus “exhaust himself in large-scale
frontal attacks.”
Suppose this is not the case. Suppose Hitler
decides to stand on his Siegfried Line and rely on his
submarines and his aircraft, plus what is buoyantly
described as his “revival of Napoleon’s Continental
system.” If the armies are immobilised indefinitely,
the financial strain on Germany will be greatly lessened,
as well as the expenditure of materials and man-power.
Maintaining the men in the field would be like main-
taining huge bodies of unemployed—no unfamiliar
experience to Germany and Britain alike.
Hitler and his advisers may have anticipated the
adoption of the Liddell Hart theories and laid their
plans accordingly. From Russia and the coerced
neutrals they may draw far greater supplies than our
newspaper experts bargain for. They may be confi-
dent that their hitherto docile people will endure more
for them than the people of Britain and France will
endure for their Governments, which have to be very
sensitive to public opinion, and, standing at bay in
their own country, will be less liable to be overcome
by war weariness. And no doubt they consider their
survival-value greater than that of the hostile Gov-
ernments, even though Allied politicians and news-
papers have vowed to “destroy Hitler and his system
-—which can be represented as a determination to
thrust on the German people rulers chosen by tri-
umphant enemies.
“Hitler and his system must be destroyed before
any honorable peace can be concluded. So says
Mr. Mair, the Sydney Premier, repeating what he has
read in newspaper articles and heard from radio
stations. And whom does Mr. Mair propose to put
in Hitler’s place, and what system would he erect on
the ruins of Nazism? He hasn’t thought that out,
nor has any of the gentlemen he follows.
A war for the destruction of any particular ruler
or any particular system, however hateful, would be
that most terrible of all wars—a crusading war. If such
a war were waged against Stalin and the U.S.S.R.
a faithless “aggressor” in the terms of the Anglo-
Polish alliance and a bitter enemy of the British
Empire—even propagandists and doctrinaires would
fight. If it is waged against Hitler and Nazism, the
Germans will fight like wild animals. In that case, as
Lord Ponsonby has said, we may look forward “to
three years of appalling casualties,” and to a “victory”
that would leave Britain and France in financial straits.
And after the “victory” what? A Bolshevised Ger-
many that would be a greater danger than ever.
Proclaiming of war aims has become a craze
among the crusaders, especially those who wanted to
fight Japan, Italy and Spain, by deputy. “No peace
while Poles and Czechs remain under the Nazi
tyranny!” is the “Daily Herald’s” effort. The “Daily
Herald” is Labor. For Australia there is one war
aim, and one only: security, with guarantees. Because
of Germany’s record since August, 1914, the guaran-
tees must be ample, and they must include substantial
reduction of armaments, vouched for by honest neutral
commissions. To take less would be weakness. To
insist on more would be madness.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Anthony—and After.
Mr. Anthony Eden was on the air again the other
night assuring the Dominions that he approved of
them, or something like that. Of a previous perform-
ance a Sydney paper, violently pro-Eden when the
gentleman was Foreign Secretary, allowed its funny
man to say that it was “delivered in the voice of one
deprecating the influence of Bowery slang on the style
of Mrs. Virginia Woolf.” The latest impelled The
Bulletin to turn up an article it published when
Anthony was Warning the Axis Powers and telling
the world that Britain was “constantly in consultation
with the United States —over and over again Britain
and the United States have taken parallel action, indi-
cating the closeness of their collaboration.” The
article contained these sentences:
It ought to be clear to the meanest intelligence that
the Americans won’t fight in Asia or in Europe unless
the existence of their republic is recognisably at stake.
If Canning or Palmerston could revisit the glimpses
of the moon he would marvel at the fatuousness of his
successor in driving Germany, Italy and Japan into one
another’s arms. Apart from being exposed to the
common danger of a deluge of civil-war propaganda
from Russia, these countries have no real bond of
union. Italian and Japanese interests are severed by
half the width of the world. The Germans can never
look with satisfaction on the Japanese occupation of
the Carolines and the Marshalls, or on the Italian
possession of part of the homeland of one of the most
patriotic German tribes.
That was written at the end of 1937. Then, and
before and afterwards, The Bulletin was called
“Fascist” for opposing intervention on the Stalinist
side in China and Spain. As an “argument,” as well
as an opprobrious term, “Fascist” was then all the
rage. It has become unfashionable all of a sudden.
It is pertinent to quote from the September
Memorandum of the Imperial Policy Group, whose
monthly reports on the state of Europe have made
the speculations and diatribes of Famous American
Correspondents ridiculous:
There are three nations whose position is now a
matter of profound interest. They are Japan, Italy and
Spain. It would be unwise to jump at conclusions.
We can, however, take into account certain facts.
The events of the last few weeks have taught us a
lesson. However tempting intervention may be, some-
times it is better to wait cautiously.
We have certainly benefited enormously by refusing
to fall into the Tientsin trap. Mr. Chamberlain never
displayed more shrewdness, and his policy over Far
Eastern questions in the last few weeks has been wholly
justified. By playing his cards badly he might have
involved Great Britain and even the United States in a
major Far Eastern conflagration at a time when Europe
was on the point of blowing up. By holding his hand
he not only avoided this catastrophe but it is not
inconceivable that Japan’s policy may be greatly
modified. The English-speaking world has had plenty of
' reverses since the Great War, so we can legitimately
claim a major strategical success for our diplomacy in
this case.
A true bill. But to the Stunt Press and its
Famous American Correspondents the old Prime
Minister was a poltroon, and “S. M. Herald” threat-
ened the Japanese with Russian bombing of their
naval stations.
Hush f
It is hard to discover the principle which underlies the
war-time measures of the Commonwealth Government
regarding land produce. The only password appears
to be “Secrecy.”
Wool arrangements were concluded and the ex-
pensive organisation to handle the output was in
operation before growers were allowed to know offi-
cially for what their goods had been sold. Then the
Prime Minister and the panjandrums told the story —
wool bought on a sterling basis at a price which so
far has not been realised on the averages, with all
sorts of tags and catches and no system under which
the grower can know whether he is getting a fair price
or whether his world market is being preserved for
him.
The essential fact is that Australian wool is the
dominating factor in the world market and whoever
buys it all holds all the aces. The British Government
was prepared to pay more than last season’s average,
knowing that it could make its own price for fine
wools to Australia’s regular foreign customers and
the world in general. The price it paid was not so
high as the world was prepared to pay, as witness
the auction sales in S. Africa, which refused to join in
the British scheme. At the S’African sales, 70’s clean
scoured merino on October 14 brought 30d. sterling—■
it represents the 50 per cent, product of greasy.
Any profit on the Australian figure is to be shared
between Britain and Australia. But Australia could
have sold the wool just as easily without*a middle-
man. Australian selling would have kept the
world market in regular Australian channels. Under
the present scheme, we have no way of knowing how
the British Government will deal with our customers.
Until Monday the entire meat position was a
mystery. A contract with Argentina was announced,
and it was given out that the whole of the Australian
meat would be bought; but that was all. There is
no truly Australian representative on the London
Meat Control Board, though one member has interests
in Australia —and much larger ones in S. America.
Yet there are some able Australian meat men in
London ; for example, Charles McCann, the S’Aus-
tralian Agent-General, who for years managed the
Smithfield and Argentine Meat Co. and is a recog-
nised authority.
As with wool, information was vouchsafed to Aus-
tralians in whispers. Thousands of Australian car-
casses were taken over in England by the British
Government before prices were fixed, though com-
panies pay on demand drafts from Australian pro-
ducers.
On Friday Senator McLeay, the Minister of Com-
merce, protested that the delay in announcing details
of contracts was no fault of the Commonwealth
Government. Details could not be released till prices
were released by the U.K. That very day the Maori-
land Government, which has all along been weeks
ahead of Mr. McLeay’s Government in its war
arrangements, announced its meat-agreement prices—
-6.53d. to 7.93 d. for lamb, 4.2 d. to 5.36 d. for mutton,
3.1 d. to 5.44 d. for beef and 7.15 d. to 7.46 d. for pork
and bacon. So on Monday the prices for Australia
were made public: 5.29 d. for first beef frozen
hinds ; 4.29 d. for second frozen hinds ; 3.2 d. to 3.27 d.
for crops; 4.4 d. to 7.26 d. for lamb ; 2.66 d. to 3.4 d.
for mutton ; and for pig meats, firsts 7.5 d., seconds
7.18 d.
Senator McLeay considers them “very satisfac-
tory,” and says they will “ensure a reasonable stand-
ard of living for producers.” Roughly, they are up
10 p.c.
Reds on the Run.
Since Stalin and Hitler joined hands, American opinion
has turned sharply against the Reds. For years they
had a great run in the U.S.A. With plenty of money
at their command, they employed every vehicle of
propaganda, the most effective work being done by
clever, bitter Jews. The vogue of American films,
radio records and magazines carried the stuff to Aus-
tralia and other countries, where it had a distinct influ-
ence also.
In America, as in Australia, multitudes of middle-
class mugs were enrolled in so-called Leagues against
War and Fascism and Societies for the Promotion of
Cultural Relations with Soviet Russia and the like.
To be a Parlor Pink became fashionable. The cause
of the “Democrats” in Spain was helped substantially
with men and money, a lot of the money coming from
Hollywood. Stalin’s “purge”- of the “enemies” who
tried to anticipate him by coming to terms with the
Nazis was championed as a necessary, if painful, inci-
dent in the transformation of Russia into a democracy
like that of Lincoln and the two Roosevelts. Bridges,
threatened with expulsion to Australia as a Com-
munist, found warm champions even in Washington.
Now all is changed. The Stalinists invaded Poland
without taking foreign “comrades” into their confi-
dence, and no doubt the explanations offered in
America were as unconvincing as those which the
local brotherhood has been trying to cram down the
Australian public’s neck. But the last straw to the
U.S.A. was the threat to the Finns. The American
people have made a pet of Finland, the only country
which has met every war-interest bill on the due date,
and their politicians and newspapers have extolled it
as a shining example of a post-war democratic republic
—as no doubt it is.
The Federation of Labor, always anti-Communist,
at once declared a boycott of Soviet Russia. John
Lewis, of the rival organisation, the C. 1.0., removed
Bridges from his place as boss of the Pacific Slope
longshoremen and transferred! him to a subordinate
position. Henry Ford, who had welcomed Russian
engineers and mechanics at his plants for years, shut
the gates against them. Browder, the Communist
leader who stood for President in 1936, was haled
before the Congressional Committee which has been-
“investigating un-American activities” for a year or
more to answer a charge that he had used false pass-
ports in 1937 and 1938. On his admitting it, he was
indicted by a grand jury, arrested and released on
$lO,OOO bail, police photographs and fingerprints hav-
ing first been taken.
Browder’s sister was mentioned in the Krivitsky
articles as having been employed in the Soviet “intel-
ligence” service in Europe. After the experience with
her brother, the Americans may outlaw Communism,
as the Finns and the French have done, and as Aus-
tralia will have to do.
A.B.C. and its "Building Fund."
From C. J. A. Moses, general manager of A.B.C.: —-
In a criticism of the Australian Broadcasting Commission
in your issue of October 25, it was stated that, because the
Commission has large sums of money derived from license
fees “stowed away,” it has decided to use these in the
construction of buildings which, it was implied, would be both
costly and unnecessary.
The Commission wishes to point out that it does not
aim at making a profit, and, with the exception of funds
required for building purposes, spends all revenue directly or
indirectly on programmes.
But it must be realised that the Commission is at present
working in converted premises not designed specifically for
broadcasting, and is faced with an urgent need to obtain
more suitable accommodation. The A.B.C. offices in Sydney
are in four separate buildings, distributed over three city
blocks. In Melbourne the Commission operates in six separate
buildings, and in Adelaide an extension into a third building
is proposed.
Apart from the difficulty of carrying out the work of a
large organisation in these conditions, premises more suited
to the demands of modern broadcasting technique are required
to ensure that important programme features shall be trans-
mitted satisfactorily. The Commission is not in the same
position as some of the large-scale organisations mentioned
in your article, which could, perhaps, be expected to operate
efficiently in any building of sufficient size intended for office
work.
A building plan for all States, involving an expenditure of
£700,000, was drawn up in 1938 and approved by the Gov-
ernment. But the Federal Treasurer advised the Commission
so to arrange its finances as to permit the setting aside from
current revenue of sufficient reserves for essential building
projects, because Treasury assistance could not be assured.
The Commission’s total revenue last year left a credit
balance of £50,021, which was transferred to the building fund.
In view of the urgent necessity for new buildings this credit
balance can hardly be regarded as unduly large.
Any reduction in the license fee must react on the quality
of programmes, because it is on these that the greater part
of our revenue is now spent. The license fee at present is
less than Id. per day. If it were reduced from £1 Is. to 15s.
this reduction could make little difference to even the lowest
incomes, yet it would lead to an enormous reduction in the
standard of programmes.
So a reduction of 6s. in the license fee, £1 Is.,
would “make little difference to even the lowest
incomes.” If there are no marines handy, Mr. Moses
might try that one on any old-age or invalid pen-
sioner, any half-timer, any poor devil on the dole or
any married man, single woman or widow on the
basic wage. The Bulletin repeats that the Govern-
ment should not tolerate grandiose building in war-
time by an upstart concern carrying on precariously
by favor of Parliament, and that “the building fund,”
being a result of excessive taxation, belongs to the
nation and should be transferred to its war fund.
Brisbane's Civic Muddle.
Last week the affairs of Brisbane City Council were
transferred from the turgid atmosphere of the City
HaJl to the atmosphere of the State Parliament, which
is also turgid at times. While dismissal notices to
another 192 municipal workers were on their way,
and the Lord Mayor was plaintively “explaining” to
subdued aldermen that all their troubles were attribut-
able to the war, the Government introduced a bill
authorising the council to recast its budget. After
four hours of tempestuous debate on the first stage, it
was passed without amendment.
The bill provides that all expenditure to which the
council committed itself under the latest loan scheme,
which failed because it was unable to raise loans,
should be met by a levy on the ratepayers. This, it
was modestly remarked, might need another 4d. in
the £. The fresh budget must be approved of by the
Auditor-General, and if any anxious lender should
turn up with a million the A.-G. may allow the
council to make still another recasting of the budget.
The Home Secretary, Mr. Hanlon, said that the
maximum deficiency to be met will be £352,000,
consisting of loan commitments (£147,000), loan over-
draft (£43,000) and a deficit from the city fund
(£155,000). Mr. Hanlon had a stunned air as he
referred to the refusal of the Commonwealth and the
banks to provide easy money for this disorderly council
and for State Governments. He said the resultant dis-
location was beyond the dreams of what an enemy
would desire to accomplish.
One of the many interjectors who brightened the
proceedings might have commented that if there were
no squandering States and no bloated imitation city
Parliaments there would be little “dislocation” and no
regional bankruptcy for the enemy to gl®at over.
On the second reading, the Home Secretary criti-
cised the whole “system” of administration practised
by the council. Nerve-racking functions, he declared,
waste half the Lord Mayor’s time, and the town
clerk, who gets £lOOO p.a., is occupied to an
unconscionable extent in handing out afternoon-tea
to prize-fighters and actresses. The city treasurer, for
his part, is a rent-collector, receiving cheques for rent
on every office in the City Hall. Committees of aider-
men have reduced every officer to a state in which he
is “like a mouse ready to duck into his hole when he
sees the cat in the shape of responsibility coming.”
Mr. Hanlon proposes to reorganise the show so that
there will be fewer men inside and more outside —
with shovels.
If reorganisation is called for it implies general
incompetence on the part of the council. And since
the inept concern is elected by ratepayers, it would be
a fair thing to let the ratepayers have a say by dissolv-
ing it and proceeding with the election of an-
other pledged to economy and efficiency. Though this
was suggested by Mr. Nimmo, M.L.A. (U.A.P.), during
the debate in Parliament, it found no favor.
'There is nothing mouselike in the attitude of
Brisbane electors to their municipal infliction. If an
election were ordered they would very probably turn
the ruling party and the Lud Mayor out of office.
But such a catastrophe the Government is not prepared
to face. The ruling party is Labor, the Lud Mayor is
Labor and the Government is Labor, so the part
assigned to the ratepayers is to pay through the nose
and look sharp about it.
A 1941 Census.
It is sincerely to be hoped that the Australian Govern-
ment will not permit any consideration of war or
otherwise, unless of the most vital nature, to interfere
with the taking of a national census in 1941. Rever-
sion to the decennial system which was interrupted
by the depression in 1931 would be of decided national
value. The postponement to 1933 created a serious
break in continuity of the only really accurate and
comprehensive record of Australian development.
Even were this used as the basis of a new decennial
period it would merely increase and extend statistical
difficulties then created.
A national census amounts to much more than
mere counting of heads. It affords the only indis-
putably accurate basis from which to deduce the true
national position, to foresee coming changes liable
to affect that position, and to formulate measures for
the forestalling or prevention of undesirable changes.
War conditions short of actual invasion will not vitiate
its results, and they will not contain any information
of value to an enemy. Should it be considered neces-
sary to withhold publication of figures showing diver-
sion of man-power to military service or munition-
making, no more difficulty would arise than with any
other of the many other confidential details handled
by the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statis-
tics as part of its everyday work.
The Federal Government has at least eight months
in which to consider the matter before even the first
small beginning will need to be made at the actual
job.


Society
"AND IT'S PRÌNTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Selma”: Talking of these modern
works of art, I called in to see a woman
who teaches the young, for a fee, to
express themselves with brush and can-
This is wot they call a swaller dive.”
vas. She told me delightedly that she
had a new pupil who was going to be
a world wonder. “Go upstairs, Min-
erva,” she said to a youthful student,
“and bring down Belinda’s ‘Stage Coach
at Sunset.’ ” Such movement, she assured
me, such color, such vision! Minerva
returned bearing a canvas which seemed
to have had a poached egg spilt on it.
“How stupid you are,” said the mistress
to the unhappy Minerva. “You’ve
brought down ‘Harvest Field in Rain.’
What’s that? You don’t know the dif-
ference....” I left at this point, sym-
pathy being entirely with Minerva.
* * * *
“Hitler”: No, white feathers haven’t
come to light yet (B. 18/10/’39), but
if they do I hope they are accompanied
by the appearance of the “Black Feather
Brigade,” details of which I was given
over the tenth schooner in the Crown
and Angel. The job of the B.F. Brigade,
I was told, will be to send black feathers
to shops profiteering or using war as an
advertising medium, to expensively-
dressed persons, men smoking expen-
sive cigars or driving or being driven
in expensive limousines, armchair
patriots, persons caught frequenting ex-
pensive night clubs, and birds of a
similar color. Oh, and I forgot to men-
tion that the list of prospective recipients
of black feathers is headed by donors
of white feathers.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Melbourne has acquired a
new Black Maria replete with all mod.
cons., but the fate of its predecessor
could not have been foreseen in the
wildest dope-dreams of any of the
thousands who travelled in it to Mel-
bourne Gaol or Pentridge. Located in the
quadrangle of the city’s ornately-respect-
able Town Hall, it is regularly filled with
tear gas and used as a demonstrating
chamber for gas-mask drill by A.R.P.
wardens, amongst whom are some of
Melbourne’s most high-minded and law-
abiding citizens of both sexes. Razor
Jim, Stripoff Kate, Billy the Bleeder, and
dozens of other unconventional former
passengers must be leaping with joy in
their graves.
* * H= * »
“D.E.”: Colonel Moore Cosgrave, the
Canadian representative in Sydney, served
on Byng’s staff in France, and tells a
neat yarn of that general, who was after-
wards G.-G. in Canada. Going into the
forward lines one day, Byng singled out
a tall Canuck and asked him how the
boys were faring. “Quite jake, sir,” the
warrior replied—“everything’s jake.” The
general stared at him uncomprehendingly
and moved on. Presently he asked for
a translation, and it tickled him pink.
A day or two later Haig visited Canadian
headquarters, and asked how things were
getting on. “Oh, jake, sir,” said Byng
briskly—“everything’s jake.” For a
moment Haig looked as if he had been
hit with a haggis. According to the
colonel, “jake” derives from a Yankee
enginedriver of that name who was
always on time. It may be so, but the
terms “jake” and “jakaloo” have been
common in Australia since I was a boy,
and the ill-fated Jack de Garis, return-
ing from a visit to the U.S.A. 20 years
ago, showed me a cutting from an Ameri-
can paper in which he had claimed an
Australian origin for both. Still, “jam-
boree” has had a longer run in Australia,
and I found “jamboree” in Bret Harte.
„ * „ * * *
“Oran”: Fashions in suicides extend
from means to locations, as the Auck-
land district of Maoriland realised some
time ago when extinct volcanoes became
popular as spots for jumping off into
eternity. It began when an unhappy
individual left a note saying the body
would be found at the bottom of the
crater of Rangitoto, the island volcano
in Auckland Harbor. Police went there,
and, finding the corpse in the huge crater
as indicated, were faced with the task
of getting it up the steep sides and down
a descent of some miles to ,the jetty. As
there are about 70 extinct volcanoes
round Auckland the rescue squad had a
variegated time for some weeks coping
with the craze. It petered out when some-
one discovered an even more inconveni-
ent way of ending things.
“S.T.S.”: A bicycle was the cause of
a strange road crash in Adelaide. A rail-
ways bus was taking over 30 relief-
workers out to work on the hills. As
it started up the Melbourne road at a
busy suburban crossing it fouled a
bicycle, got out of control, went across
the road into a tram standard, and
the occupants were thrown into heaps,
mostly with head injuries. The Adelaide
Central Hospital says it has never handled
so many casualties before from a single
accident; but only two cases (both con-
cussion) were detained. The cyclist and
the bus-driver escaped almost unhurt.
* ■ * H= *
“Atrax” : William Rowell, recently in
Brisbane after three months of painting
Queensland’s back country, has altered
his views on the reaction of the settler
to pictorial art. To save work he would
plant an unfinished canvas in the bush
for the night. One morning he met an
elderly farmer carrying what he recog-
nised as his latest part-completed effort.
Thrilled by the idea that here was an
unexpected votary of sound art bearing
home a prize for the sitting-room wall,
W.R. asked him what he was going to
do with it. “Well,” said the old chap,
“I reckon some camper must ’ave chucked
it away, and I’m takin’ it ’ome to pull
the tacks out. They might come in useful
about the place. So would the canvas if
some silly cow ’adn’ta gorn an’ smeared
a lota paint all over it. S’pose that’s
why it got chucked away.”
* * * *
“B.”: Those concrete workers who
were given cabbage leaves to cool their
pates on a hot day (B. 25/10/’39) were
luckier than a couple of Government
electricians I know. The day was a
snorter, and they’d been sweating in an
awkward corner to replace a faulty meter
in a private home. About 4 p.m. the lady
of the house emerged to ask them if
they’d like afternoon tea, and, upon their
thankful acceptance, provided a pot of
tea with a few cakes and biscuits. They
voted the woman a decent sort, finished
the job. and forgot about it until, after
a fortnight had passed, they received a
letter from head office informing them
that a bill for 2s. for afternoon tea for
two employees had been received, and
that “since it is not the practice of the
department to supply or pay for meals
for employees, please refund the money
and prevent the recurrence of such an
incident.”
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: Much as I dislike
Marshal Goring I had never suspected
that his warriors of the air would prey
on my peaceful companions in Maori-
land. But Wellington “Dominion” has
opened my eyes. “The German owl, a
notorious killer of fantails, grey warblers
and tomtits,” it states, “is widening its
murderous range.” A correspondent to
the Forest and Bird Protection Society,
quoted by the newspaper, has heard the
crying of the victims in the night, and
one evening a particularly daring raider
“came right up to the front door and
attacked our pet magpies. They were
waiting to be put to bed. Fortunately
we heard their frantic cries and ran out
and drove off the bird.” I am informed,
too, that these Nazi owls, probably under
secret orders from the Fiihrer himself,
have been waging a Blitzkrieg on native
ducklings on the tranquil Avon at Christ-
church. I warn you, Hermann, the Forest
and Bird Protection Society is mobilising.
* * * *
“Louwal”: Like “Colbun” (B.
18/10/’39) I’m amused by this theory
that English is a “mother tongue.” It was
my duty during the last war to make
an inspection of a camp occupied by a
Durham infantry unit. I approached the
guard and told him my business and he
made some reply, which, although I asked
him three times to repeat it, I couldn’t
understand. Finding it hopeless, I asked
for the sergt.-major, and when he was
brought to me I was no better off. He
seemed quite hurt when I asked if there
was not someone in the camp who could
speak English. He beckoned me to fol-
low him and took me to a dapper little
captain who happened to be a Londoner.
The captain assured me he had been
with the unit three months before he
began to understand the language spoken
by the troops.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: War-time is popu-
larly supposed to be harvest time for
newspapers, but it is more like drought
time for some. Prohibition of publica-
tion of information relating to ships and
shipping affairs has reduced shipping
newspapers to shadows of their normal
selves. One has introduced an ingenious
work-rationing scheme based on the
domestic responsibilities of its employees
until conditions improve. Men with four
or more children under 16 work five
weeks in six, with two or three four weeks
in five, with one or wife only three
weeks in four, bachelors and widowers
with no children under 16 one week in
two. Women work three weeks in
four, or four in five if they have active
domestic responsibilities. Juniors and
apprentices are not rationed.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: War is producing
some unexpected reactions amongst well-
off elderly Englishwomen. A gentle
sixtyish spinster relative dallied for years
with the idea of adopting a dear little girl
to brighten up her comfortable Sussex
home. Hitler’s antics brought her one
under the evacuation scheme, a blue-eyed
tot of four named Rosey. There were
also two boys of six and seven who
fought, broke things, left muddy foot-
prints everywhere, chased the cat and
pulled up the flowers, but she did not
mind them. Such actions were inevitable
in young males. Rosey’s thirst broke up
Auntie. All day and particularly all night
she demanded d’inks of water, which had
to be administered personally. Other fluids
she regarded as things to be poured out
at once and anywhere. Tomato sauce on
the tablecloth was Rosey’s favorite, but
she also admired the effect of a pint
bottle of ink on the dining-room carpet
or the contents of a gumpot on a tapestry
chair-seat. Auntie’s last letter was dated
from a rest-home, and admitted that she
had given up the adoption idea.
H= * H= H=
“J.” recalls a bush murderer:
Those allegations made in the trial of Moss
for the murder of O’Shea on the Macquarie
(B. 4/10/’39) remind me of the Blue Mountain
crimes of the mid-’nineties, for one of which
Frank Butler was hanged in Sydney on July
16, 1897.
As Richard Ashe, which was probably his
real name, Butler began his career as a seaman
in H.M.S. Sultan. He was present at the bom-
bardment of Alexandria. He deserted the navy
in American waters and joined the Manitoba
police in 1885, deserted again and enlisted in
the United States army, deserting and rejoining
when the fit seized him. He arrived at New-
castle (N.S.W.) in 1893 as a seaman, got into
gaol once or twice, and then turned up on the
Westralian goldfields. During the next couple
of years he served five sentences in Fremantle
gaol.
The fellow came to Sydney in 1896. He
began to advertise in the papers for partners
in gold-prospecting expeditions, and presently
got hold of one in the person of Captain Lee
Weller, a retired shipmaster. With Lee Weller
in October he started out looking for gold in
the Blue Mountains. Nothing more was heard
of the retired shipmaster.
Lee Weller had been a close personal friend
of Bob Luckham, then advertising manager of
The Bulletin. Becoming uneasy, Luckham went
to the police. Lee Weller’s body was found in
a shallow grave near Glenbrook, on the eastern
slope of the ranges. Then the hunt for Butler
began. He was arrested on the ship Swanhilda
when she arrived at San Francisco in the be-
ginning of 1897. He was known on board as
Lee Weller, and papers belonging to the un-
fortunate mariner were found in his possession.
During his trial and afterwards it was dis-
covered that at least three other amateur pros-
pectors had gone out with him. Although he
left no written confession, he made some ad-
missions respecting Lee Weller and two other
missing men, Preston and Burgess, and did not
deny knowledge of another, Davis.
After his execution other mysterious disap-
pearances came to light, though nothing definite
could be proved as to his connection with
them. In the condemned cell he confessed to
still more crimes without giving names; “for
some of them I ought to have been hung over
and over again—a dozen times if possible,”
the ruffian said.
THE INTERESTING MAN.
“Will the lady who met the interesting man send
letter where to meet again?”— “S.M.H.” agony advt.
Is he so rare a bird for tabulation,
Such a unique variety of gent.
That this particular communication
Is bound to reach the eyes for which it’s
meant?
Well, anyway, he isn’t diffident.
Elsie or Margaret, or Maud or Ann,
I wonder which of you may represent
The girl who met the interesting man.
Was it the looks of ardent admiration
Upon your face and figure that he bent,
His gallant air or sparkling conversation
That left him quite assured and well content
Such real thrill into your heart he’d sent
That columns such as this you’d daily scan
With longing for the re-establishment
Of contact with the interesting man?
Come, all you maids who like a mild flirtation,
Whom have you met at any late event
That answers to the modest designation
Outlined above—to any marked extent?
Doris or Dorothy or Millicent,
Phyllis or Phoebe, Ivy, Joan or Fan,
Which of you left so plain and evident
An impress on this interesting man?
He knows not whence she came or whither
went,
But this intense appeal, if any can,
Should surely touch her, if she’s worth a cent,
The dame who met the interesting man!
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“I dor"
“Tuart”: The best British-censorship
story has not been cabled. A bright
Fleet-street lad asked for a copy of the
first leaflet showered on Germany. “Cer-
tainly not!” Redtape snorted. “Why, if
your paper published that leaflet it might
fall into the hands of the enemy! See
Regulation 999.”
* * * *
“R.J.C.”: “C.R.’s” suggestion (B.
6/9/’39) about putting Henry Lawson's
head on an Australian postage stamp
isn’t new. The Fellowship of Australian
Writers recommended the idea to the
Postal Department in September, 1937, in
reference to the N. S. Wales sesqui-
centenary stamps. The official reply was
a cold statement that the idea was “not
favored.”
“Hamer”: “W.E.F.’s” recording of
“Larry the Liar’s” fiction about Henry
Lawson had one item that particularly
stirred memories—it was a suggestion
about Henry tossing off pots quickly. I
wonder if there was ever a poet who
“dwelt on” a pot of beer as long as did
Henry ; it was a characteristic that made
imbibing with him rather painful, for if
he was hurried the results were disastrous
In a rush of work I shouted Henry a pot
one day and, impatient at his slow con-
sumption, said good-bye—he had hardly
sucked the froth off the top when my
mug was empty. “I might see you again
if you’re here when I come back,” I said.
An hour and a half later I returned to
the pub. Lawson was still there holding
the handle of a mug with a drain of beer
in it, and he swore it was the one I bought
him.
“Craiser”: A mysterious epidemic of
sleep-walking recently afflicted one of
those girls’ boarding-schools. A damsel
would arise from her bed and with
arms outstretched glide out of the
dormitory into the passage which
led to the headmistress’s bedroom. Out-
side the door she would stop and pour
forth in a somnambulistic whisper
loud enough to reach the ears of the
headmistress a stream of abuse which
showed a surprising knowledge of the
coarser aspects of the English language.
Then her friends would come speeding
after her and lead her gently back to the
dormitory. The excitement had no sooner
subsided than the impulse to unburden
her unconscious outside the head-
mistress’s bedroom would seize another
well-bred young lady. The authorities
were becoming seriously alarmed when
the cat was let out of the bag and it
turned out that one of the girls had
evolved this ingenious method of letting
an unpopular head know what her
charges thought of her.
* * * *
“Qwert Yuiop”: Australian lighthorse-
men have a quarrel with “Believe It Or
Not” Ripley because
he claims the Olph-
waterhouse trophy
of the Birmingham
Anglers’ Association
as the world’s big-
gest prize cup. Their
nomination is the
Prince of Wales
Cup, competed for
annually by Aus-
tralian sabre teams.
It is no mere iron
affair like the fisher-
men’s one, but con-
tains a solid £4OO-
- of silver, holds
12 gallons of beer,
and would make a
commodious bath
for a good-sized
Aussie baby. An
ambitious winning
team made a gallant
effort to fill it with
champagne, but funds
ran out after the
third case had been
emptied in. Up to
the present, in the
immortal words of
Australia’s Most
Understanding Poet,
“Beer is Enough!”
* *
“A. de G.”: The
fuss over Sydney’s
old friend Lord
Gifford appearing in
Parliament in uni-
form recalls that
when Kitchener
made his first ap-
pearance in the
House of Lords on
August 25, 1914, he
was garbed in a
frock coat and striped
trousers. Though he had been a peer
since 1898 that was his first appearance
in the House, and he was so unacquainted
with the Chamber that when he entered
it, alone, he seated himself on the Epis-
copal Bench until Lord Crewe (then
leader of the House) found him a more
suitable possie. K.’s maiden speech was
read from notes, and lasted about 10
minutes.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: I read in an “Other Fel-
low’s Mind” recently that the lady whose
pen-name was Henry Handel Richard-
son had never revisited Australia. This
is not correct. She returned to her home
town, Melbourne, about 15 years ago,
as near as I can remember, and caused
a sensation by requesting permission to
visit her Alma Mater (the Presbyterian
Ladies’ College) and address the pupils.
Permission was refused on the ground
that her first novel was a distasteful
picture of that respectable seminary.
* * * *
“T.”: Changeable and tardy as it has
been in other matters, the Menzies Gov-
ernment was decisive enough in turning
down the daylight-saving stunt. Some-
body 1 has suggested that it was influenced
by what Senator Millen, who led for the
Hughes Government in the Senate in
1917, said in announcing that the country
had had enough of the experiment. “It
may be all right for golfers,” Millen said,
“and others addicted to like vices; but
all the housewives are against it. They
can’t get the youngsters to go to bed.
As for farmers, when the sun says it’s
5 p.m. the clock makes it 6 p.m. by
legislative enactment, and bang go the
railway gates. That means that wheat-
growers getting in their harvest lose at
least one working hour a day because
they have to stop carting. And the
position on dairy-farms is as bad or
worse. Acts and regulations are all
right for certain things, but they can’t
alter the internal economy of a cow.”
Poor little Millen! He was one of the
few newspapermen who have made good
in public life. His daylight-saving speech,
still remembered in the Senate, was a
happy blend of wit and wisdom.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Melbourne City Council has
followed the prevailing fashion and de-
clared a censorship of free speech. Old
men cluster for warmth and companion- •
ship in the council’s various “shelters,”
and anew regulation says that “no per-
sons shall at any time, while being in the
shelter, delivej: a public address.” As any
remark overheard by another auto-
matically becomes public it would be in-
teresting to know how the council will
get legal redress against a Socrates of
its shelters. Another enactment prohibits
gambling; but in the Exhibition Gar-
dens, where the council recently erected
anew shelter, gambling goes on outside it
daily, and the sums that change hands
would earn the respect of a member of
the Melbourne Club. But nothing that
could possibly go on inside the council’s
shelter could be a worse crime than the
shelter itself. A drab shack, it was
dumped in the middle of one of the most
beautiful vistas in the city, and it looks
like a horrible smack in the face to the
fine Exhibition Building behind it.
“Miss Smithers , do you realise what you're saying?”
WE JINGLERS.
We have no hope to ever reach the status
Or touch the fringe of the poetic throng
Whom some mysterious outside afflatus
Sends plunging into real, genuine song.
Frankly, we own an obvious hiatus
In our equipment there. We don’t belong
Unto the fellowship which smites the lyre
With any such spontaneous force and fire.
Not ours the poesy that thrills and tingles,
The odes and sonnets rich with passion’s
throb.
It’s hard to turn your thoughts to dells and
dingles,
Sweet sylvan scenes far from the madding
mob,
When spinning skits and weaving artless jingles
Have definitely landed you a job.
Others on ampler pinions may fly
Aloft, but never, brothers, you and I.
We take no stock in mythologic Muses ;
We burn no incense to the fabled Nine.
The only temple any of us chooses
For chances in the inspiration line
And, when he’s stuck for new ideas, uses
Is, I suspect, the handiest Hebe’s shrine,
And pots of beer or nips of gin, I ween,
The nearest we may get to Hippocrene.
No leafy guerdon from Apollo’s laurel,
No wreath or garland trimmed with lordly
bay,
Or even humble parsley, it’s a moral,
Will ever come our undistinguished way.
But still with destiny we needn’t quarrel.
However thin the pipe whereon we play
And trivial our lilts, things might be worse;
At least we pen intelligible verse.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
“Ek Dum”: There seems to be a here-
after, despite the cynics, as proved by
the following Aryan advertisement in a
Melbourne paper:— ■
WALHALLAITES.—EnjoyabIe Reunion,
28th Oct., Oddfellows’ Hall; adm., 1/7U
refresh, provided. Join us!
In Norse mythology Walhalla is the Hall
of the Slain, in the refectory of Glads-
heim, the final happy home of all mor-
tals. Thither gents stonkered in battle
were conducted by 12 nymphs or Val-
kyries mounted on horses and bearing
naked swords. Duly arrived at their desti-
nation, the liquidated heroes were served
with mead and ale in horn “skull” cups,
which were raised as the toast of “Skaal”
went round. Hope this show is a guest
night, and that some full member puts
up Is. for old Siegfried. He ought
to have a few remarks to make about the
combat going on along his Line.


m
c*
30131
More and more people are smoking
* - * AWiMiiii |i||«n -- *
mvnlitw •• filvAf #l 4c r. 1«• Vi
Bg BABA ASA JF AAAIAfAAjjFSp ■■ WAASI »
10 for 3d 20 lor 1/6
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICALPOINTS
The threat to State Parliaments has
drawn anguished protests from the
Premiers’ Union. The cry of Willcock,
the Perth Premier, is that “the Govern-
ments of the Commonwealth and the
States are more than busy in their re-
spective spheres with war preparations.”
“War preparations” is beautiful.
Out of taxes and Commonwealth grants
the Westralian Government is finding in
this war-year £B2OO for salaries of eight
Ministers, £48,600 for salaries of 80 mem-
bers, £5OOO for “Ministerial and Parlia-
mentary visits,” £2OOO for “travelling
concessions to members and life-pass
holders,” £15,000 for other Parliamen-
tary expenses (including just on £5OO
for “members’ postage”) and £12,000 for
the London office. “War preparations”
all.
A new dog-racing course was opened
in Sydney last week, and this week the
“Parliament” that sanctioned it rushes
into recess. Tin-hare joint, recess, taxes
(up about £4,000,000) and annual deficit
(reckoned at £1,500,000) constitute the
Government’s contribution to the war
effort.
Still in a passion of “gratitude and
admiration for Turkey’s sturdy stand,”
“S. M. Herald” mentioned that Jacko
is biting the Allies’ ear for another
£60,000,000. There is no shrinking
modesty about Jacko when he puts a
price on his favors.
How kind Queensland criminal law is
to the killer has been demonstrated in
the case of a wild animal, aged 16, who,
arriving at a settler’s house “destitute,
insufficiently clad and hungry,” was given
a job and treated as one of the family.
He repaid his benefactor by shooting
the latter’s young wife, who was about
to become a mother; with a supreme
effort the dying woman managed to warn
her husband, who was thus spared her
fate. “The worst type of youth I have
ever known,” said Brennan, J.; and his
Honor added that he would flog the
animal himself if it were lawful. But the
law permitted him only to pass sentence
of 15 years; “and the department can
deal with the brute as it likes and let him
out when it likes.”
“The proposal to abolish State Parlia-
ments will take more than talk.” Mr.
Dwyer-Gray, Premier “without port-
folio” in a State with a Government
House, two Houses of Parliament, 11
Federal members and a population of
240,000, is talking.
It will require the consent of a majority
of the people by plebiscite and a major-
ity in a majority of States. Nothing but
a miracle will cause that.
In other words, it would be a miracle
if the people voted Mr. Dwyer-Gray out
of his useless job. Still, when Com-
monwealth control of State debts was
put to the vote the people approved of
it by nearly three to one; and from
Commonwealth control of State debts
to Commonwealth control of everything
else may be only a long stride.
In seven years of Stevens, the acknow-
ledged N.S.W. public debt moved up
from £306,500,000 to £359,800,000. The
real increase was much greater, for the
Sydney Water Board alone has been bor-
rowing (and spending) £3,000,000 a year
on the Government’s guarantee. The
Stevens theory is that borrowing-and-
spending “absorbs the unemployed.” It
does for a time, but when the “works”
cut out or the money runs out the un-
employed are put off. And the interest
which has to be found by industry for
loans on “works” that never pay makes
it harder to “absorb” them than ever.
How hopeless the Sydney “Parliament”
is was shown for the thousandth time
when Richardson, the Treasurer, threw
four taxpayer-slugging bills on the table
and asked the Assembly to pass them in
one sitting. And one was the measure
hastily substituted for Stamp Duties
“Amendment,” which, as the principal
U.A.P. newspaper protested, provided for
“the imposition of heavy duties on prop-
erty never enjoyed by a testator and even
on property of which the testator had
never heard.” The substituted measure,
according to C. O. Tebbutt, the Sydney
lawyer, imposes “phenomenal” duties on
estates, small and large alike, and makes
the Commissioner of Stamp Duties “dis-
“Visiting Liverpool (N.S.W.) camp, Mr. Hughes was asked, ‘What about a wet canteen?’
His reply was, ‘Make a noise, boys, make a noise.’ ”
“How the blazes can a bloke make a noise with a tongue as dry as this?”
putant and judge.” But it went through
t h e Assembly flying
Latest news of an unlisted addition
to the army of Government employees
—356,100 when counted in 1937:
Mr . charles HolmeS) general manager of
the Australian National Travel Association,
has returned to Sydney after supervising
for the Federal Government the arrange-
ment of Australia’s exhibit at the New
Zealand Centennial Exhibition,
A previous par. was to the effect that
Mr. Charles Holmes had returned to
Sydney after “supervising” the Austra-
lian exhibit at the New York Fair. His
show gets £20,000 p.a. from Canberra,
and heaps more when there are “ex-
hibits” to be “supervised.”
To Henri Berenger, president of the
Foreign Affairs Committee of the French
Senate, the Hitler-Stalin alliance is “the
most revolting pact that human history,
full as it is of immorality of this kind,
has ever had to record.” That appeared
in Sydney “D.T.” on Saturday. On the
same day the “Telegraph’s” rival reported
the “gentle” Lord Halifax as coming
out with a string of apologies for Mos-
cow performances since August. The
Frenchman is right,
The Russian “policy” of British
politicians is confused and incompre-
hensible. In Poland, according to Lord
Halifax, the Russians merely “advanced
their boundary to the line recommended
by Lord Curzon at Versailles”; they
would “never have taken that action if
Germany had not started it by invading
Poland without a declaration of war” ;
his Lordship “hopes the Russo-Finnish
discussions will be concluded reasonably,”
and is “greatly pleased at the maintenance
of good Russo-Turkish relations”; lastly,
“the Government is now examining the
possibility of further trade with the
Soviet on a barter basis.” If the Reds
grab Bessarabia from the Rumanians,
his Lordship will look extremely foolish.
A cry went up from Canberra that the
Government was running the war from
Melbourne, and it became a chorus when
Sydney politicians and editors shouted
that the war effort should be directed
from Canberra, Canberra being Aus-
tralia’s Mighty Heart. Then it occurred
to somebody to turn up the civil-service
paradise’s recruiting figures. The quota
is 114; enlistments on Oct. 27 numbered
48.
Sydney “D.T.” once more, though not
this time demanding “positive action”
against Japan:
The year draws to an end with prospects
of an Anglo-American bloc in defence of
peace and democracy. In foreign affairs
to-day isolation is impossible. It is this
fact the President is trying to impress on
his countrymen.
“The year” was 1937. In 1939 the “fact
that President Roosevelt is trying to im-
press on his countrymen” is that they are
well out of the war. Thus inspired, the
Senate has agreed to Nootrality Bill
amendments, cash - and - carry among
them, and the House is expected to
approve.
Communique from the “United”
Country party front:
When questioned about a report that
Mr. Cameron contemplated moving a want-
of-confidence motion in the Government,
Mr. Thompson (New England) said he
would refuse to support any such motion.
Mr. Thompson doesn’t care for Mr.
Cameron.
Dwyer-Gray, “Premier without port-
folio,” is a League of Nations man ; and
though the League is dead the League of
Nations Union draws a steady £2OO a
year from the Tasmanian Treasury. A
small but significant example of gener-
osity with other people’s money.
“The people of N.S.W. are suffering
under a yoke of oppression unequalled
in the history of Australia,” says Mr.
Cranwell, president of the “new” A.L.P.
But let the oppressors tremble! Mr.
Cranwell is not catching the first boat
for Moscow.
Premier Dunstan’s son Arthur wants
to stand for Bulla-Dalhousie (Vic.), but
a little difficulty has arisen. Though his
pa is a pre-selection man, Arthur
objected to a pre-selection ballot and
there was loose talk of Arthur’s grabbing
Excalibur or some local equivalent and
going into action as an Independent.
That would mean the old man having
to disown Arthur and support the
branded Cocky. Arthur refused the
unfilial role assigned to him, and the
agitated bosses of the organisation have
launched a peace offensive.
Characteristic Tasmanian Government
expenditure on “Special Services”:
Railway passes for Members and Wives,
Life Railway Passes to ex-Prime Ministers,
Premiers, Ministers, Presidents and
Speakers—£29oo.
Fares of members of Parliament travelling
on Transcontinental Railways, £5O.
There is no need for any State member
in the islet to travel on Transcontinental
railways. Whatever State members in
the islet are for, it is not that.
E. A. Peverill, Victoria’s Auditor-
General, in his annual report questions
the value of assets created by his State’s
expenditure on relief works over the past
10 years, £28,523,800. Loan liability
for unemployment relief was £10,701,118
at the end of last year, interest and sink-
ing fund calling for £383,697 during the
term.
Of the loan liability £8,804,853 has been
expended in the form of grants. Future
revenues will not derive from those assets
income commensurate with the increasing
interest and redemption charges:
Here is a civil servant doing his job as
it should be done ; and the politicians
take no notice of him.
During the year to August 31, Aus-
tralia gained a whole 435 permanent
arrivals of British stock; also 5298 Ger-
mans, 2612 Italians, 1149 Poles and 1000
Greeks. The Germans and Poles were
nearly all Jews. Immigration of refugees
was to be limited to 5000 a year, be-
ginning from the first day of 1939. For
seven months the proportion must have
been considerably exceeded.
Of Victoria’s gross revenue last year,
2.36 p.c. was spent on “works, buildings,
forests, etc.,” 3.73 p.c. on “pensions,” etc.,
6.97 p.c. on unemployed relief and 25.63
p.c. on “administrative, educational,
charitable and social” institutions. In-
terest and sinking fund took 30.47 p.c.;
“State undertakings, settlement and water
supply,” 33.76 p.c. Under this head
massive losses had to be met out of the
taxes —railways, £963,700 ; country water
supplies, £974,200; land settlement,
£967,400 ; State coalmine, £125,500. All
loan jobs and all styled “permanent and
reproductive” when the money was bor-
rowed.
“T.”: N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation men
are morosely asking what help they are
getting in their work from Sydney Univer-
sity. Apropos, without heavily increas-
ing his income tax and without raising his
relief tax at all —the Sydney Government
has bumped up its corresponding taxes,
and others, sky-high—Dunstan is contriv-
ing to find another £5OOO for Melbourne
University this year, making the subven-
tion £75,800. Sydney University got
£lOO,OOO last year, and all the average
taxpayer sees for the money is a daily-
paper notice coolly associating its name
with the foreign-affairs mush of one of
its professors.


THE COMEBACK
“Even in this machine-age there is still a place for the horse.”


615
X H E VOYAGER
MANICURE SET.
Grained Calf
Leather Case, fitted
with 1 Nail Clipper,
1 Nail Scissor,
1 Tweezer, and
1 File. 31/6.
BAKER’S QUALITY CUTLERY
.v«icyi<v
il®
I Si VhA!
nf-~.
w/
602 THREE-PAIR SCISSOR
CASE. Case is Hand-made' of
Best Calf Grained Leather,
Lined with Velvet. Fitted with
1 6in. Cutting-out and 1 Em-
broidery Scissor, 1 Nail Scissor,
35/- complete.
Made in Sheffield, England.
3326—Best Quality Nickel-plated Easy Bow
CUTTING-OUT SCISSORS. Length overall
6in., 6/-; Tin., 7/6; Sin., 9/6 each.
POST FREE FOR CASH.
W. Jno. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
W.JHO BAKER '
RmbitKhife
710—BABBIT KNIFE, 3}in., Smooth
Horn Haft, 5/- each.
737—BEST QUALITY AND FINISH,
4in. Stag Haft, 8/6 each.
PERSONAL ITEMS
One of the most daring cross-Germany
fliers since war broke out is H. C. Daish,
late of the R.A.A.F. and before that a
jackeroo on Natue, Booligal (N.S.W.). He
left Australia three years ago to take up
a short-service commission in the R.A.F.,
and last year became a flight-lieutenant.
Two of his flights have been specially
mentioned. He has a brother who is a
New Guinea pilot, and who will soon
be in the R.A.A.F.
John Herbert Syme, general manager
and one of the owners of Melbourne
“Age,” dead at 80, was the eldest son of
David Syme, who was the “Age” for 50
years. Nominated as manager in his
father’s will, J.H. took hold in 1890. He
was a law graduate of Melb. Uni., made
some name in football circles in his
youth, and in later years-took up engi-
neering as a hobby. At his home at Kew
he had one of the best-equipped private
workshops in Australia. He married in
1894 and is survived by his wife and six
children. Three of the Syme brothers
now remain—Dr. A. E. Syme, Geoffrey
(managing editor of the “Age”) and
Oswald.
Dead at 64, Zane Grey, the American
novelist, who in pursuit of his hobby as
a fisherman spent many seasons in Aus-
tralasian seas hunting shark, marlin and
other big fish. Started as a dentist, but
gave it up after six years’ practice in
New York in favor of a career as a
writer. He produced books of the
“Western” type prolifically, and was one
of the most successful cultivators of that
field. On a visit to Australia’s Barrier
Reef he made a film, “White Death,” in
which he himself played a part. A
stockily-built, quiet-mannered man, Zane
Grey grew to love Australia, and was
liked by all the Australians who met him.
A heart attack carried him off. He had
a bad one at Honolulu a year or two
ago, and was advised to go back home.
His reply was that he had promised to
visit Bermagui (N.S.W.), and he did.
Vernon Ashton Sturdee, recently pro-
moted in two jumps from a lieutenant-
colonelcy to lieutenant-general in com-
mand of the N.S.W. military division, is
the same military breed as Monash. Born
at Frankston, educated at Melbourne
Grammar, he was first commissioned in
the Engineers. A lean, strong-jawed,
GENERAL STURDEE.
incisive soldier, with no frills or side,
he went out with the first A.I.F. and
served for the duration in Egypt,
on Gallipoli, in France and Belgium,
and won the D.S.O. After the war
Sturdee passed the Staff College at
Quetta, came back as instructor in mili-
tary engineering at Duntroon, was sec-
onded to the War Office as a staff officer,
second grade, passed the Imperial De-
fence College, acted as military represen-
tative at Australia House, and became
director of military operations and in-
telligence in the C.M.F. He is in his
late forties.
Had an 80th birthday, Daisy Bates,
long a friend of the natives at far-back
Ooldea, still living the simple life in
her old tent, but now at Pyap (S.A.) on
the bank of the Murray. She is pre-
paring a second book ; the first was the
story of her life among the
abos., and this one will con-
tain their legends. The birth-
day was celebrated in Adel-
aide, where everyone from
Government House onwards
paid honor to the wonderful
little woman.
Peter Feldt, that fine adopted
Australian who has died in
Brisbane at 86 after 60 years’
association with the sugar in-
dustry, came from Sweden in
1878 and was one of the
earliest settlers on the Herbert
River (N.Q.). With his plucky
wife he weathered cyclones,
floods and fires in the true
pioneer spirit and made the
property one of the finest and
most successful in the district.
A son is Lieut.-Commander
Feldt, R.A.N.R., who gradu-
ated from the Australian Naval
College at Jervis Bay in 1915
and saw four years of active
service in North Sea destroyers.
“N.M.”: There was irony in
the fate of Maorilander Cap-
tain A. H. Maclver, killed by
a motor-van whilst returning
to Burnham camp and
accorded the first military
funeral of the war period in
Wellington (M.L.). He wasn’t
a professional soldier, being
on the staff of the State Advances
office, but for years he had given
of his best to the territorials. He
got his sergeant’s stripes in the old
days of compulsory training, and all
through the volunteer days he carried on
with parades containing as many officers
as men. He made himself a machine-gun
expert and attained ■commissioned rank.
Then, just as he was given a real oppor-
tunity to prove his usefulness, Fate
stepped in.
Dr. Halliday Gibson Sutherland, who
in a Sydney lecture made The- Bulletin
blush by quoting a par. from “that won-
derful paper,” is best known to the world
1 through his autobiographical works,
The Arches of the Years and A Time
to Keep, which have run into many
editions and have been translated into
many languages. He has also written
some admirable travel books, the latest
of these, recording Hebridean wander-
ings, being published this year. He’s 57,
Glasgow-born, and a graduate of Edin-
burgh and Aberdeen universities. A
recital of important medical posts he has
held occupies half a column in Who’s
Who, and he’s one of the leading authori-
ties on t.b. Married, with five sons and
a daughter.
“S.T.S.”: John Langdon Bonython,
whose death at 91 was recorded last week,
had some claims to fame not mentioned
on that occasion. He was the
oldest journalist in Australia, his
connection with the “ ’Tiser”
reaching back to 1864, and the
veteran among the knights. He
was proud to recall that his
grandmother had been a per-
sonal friend of John Wesley.
His favorite reminiscence in the
office (often trotted out for the benefit of
young reporters) was that when he was
news-gathering a friend said to him,
“John, you work as if the paper belonged
to you.” “And,” Bonython would add,
“by the time I was 50 it did.”
Edward Joseph Tait, whose well-
known smile has been here captured
by the plastic art of Frith, is one of the
deities presiding over what is left of the
Stage in Australia. His connection with
J. C. Williamson, Ltd. (“The Firm”)
dates back for close on 40 years, and
he is now the concern’s Sydney managing
director. He was born 61 years ago at
Castlemaine, Vic., one of four brothers
all of whom became entrepreneurs. As'a
member, coincidentally with his William-
E. J. TAIT.
(Modelled by Frith.)
son connection, of J. and N. Tait (which
consisted of John Henry Tait, James
Nevin Tait, Frank Samuel Tait and
E.J.), he had a part in bringing to Aus-
tralia a whole raft of famous singers and
other musicians, as well as musical
comedy cos. In 1920 all the brothers
were members of the J. C. Williamson
directorate, and E.J. and J.A. remain
as managing directors. E.J. is an enthu-
siastic golfer and a member of the A.J.C.
Pegged his last claim at Orange, John
Reeve Attenborough, prospector and fos-
sicker—aged 93. He was probably the
last of the old Ophir crowd. He tried
every gully from Hill End to Euchareena.
On the goldfields he was known mostly as
John Reeve, his explanation being that his
full name was too pretentious. He and
his mate, John Kemp, broke up 3in. of
“bottom” in a deserted shaft at Ophir
and took out £3OO worth of gold, a tub
of dirt for 80oz. The two Johns kept
order among 20,000 Chinese on Ophir in
the ’seventies. Every dispute was arbi-
trated by them. Attenborough spent his
latter days farming.
Frith has drawn Fred Davison, author
of Duck Williams and His Cobbers,
FRED DAVISON.
armed with a catapult, but Fred hasn’t
had his fingers on a shanghai since the
’seventies —he was born in 1867, the same
year as Henry Lawson. However, he is
still able to aim straight verbally in his
capacity as a Vaucluse (Sydney) aider-
man, and with his pen as a battler for
everything that is dinkum Australian.
Born at Mount Buninyong, near Bal-
larat, he spent his childhood days at
Bendigo, also the scene of Duck Wil-
liams’s escapades. When the 1914-18 war
broke out he joined up with the Ist Bat-
talion, A.1.F., though he was close on
the half-century mark—his son, Frank
Dalby Davison, novelist and critic, who
was out of Australia at the time, en-
listed in the British Army. After the
war the senior Davison served for a long
stretch as N.S.W. State president of the
R.5.5.1.L.A., and was the first custodian
of the Martin-place, Sydney, Cenotaph.
He had a great deal to do with getting
the N.S.W. Government of the day to
finance the Kingsford Smith and Ulm
Pacific flight. Nowadays he runs an estate
agency at Vaucluse. He has written two
other books, and has given a lot of prac-
tical help to Australian writers.
Some November birthdays:
Justice Edwards (N.S.W.), 53, Prof. John
Anderson (Syd.), 46, Bishop Frewer (W.A.),
56, Bishop McCarthy (Sandhurst), 81, and Prof.
Skeats (Melb.), 64, on Ist; Justice Douglas
(Q.), 62, and S.A. Senator A. J. McLachlan,
67, on 2nd; Prof. Bailey (Melb.), 41, on 3rd;
T. A. White (Diggers Abroad), 53, on 4th;
E. W. P. Chinnery (N.T.), 52, on sth ; ex-N.S.W.
Senator Massy-Greene, 65, and Keith McKeown
(Aus. Museum, Syd.), 47, on 6th; novelist
J. J. Hardie, 45, on Bth; J. A. Beasley,
M.H.R. (West Sydney), 44, and A. E. Heath
(former N.S.W. Agent-Gen.), 52, on 9th;
knight James Elder (Melb.), 70, on 10th;
Prof. Lee Cotton (Syd.), 56, knight
Hugh Denison (Syd.), 74, and former W.A.
Min. for Justice and Railways F. C. L. Smith,
56, on 11th; W.A. Senator Collett, 62, on 12th;
knight Mark Sheldon (Syd.), 68, on 13th; Dr.
J, S. Battye (Perth Public Library), 68, on 14th;
flautist John Amadio, 53, and novelist Leonard
Mann, 44, on 15th; Dr. Catalan (Abbot of
New Norcia), 61, and Monsignor Hayden
(Syd.), 75, on 16th; Maurice Duffy (C’wealth
Bank Board), 53, author William Gosse Hay,
64, Justice Long Innes (N.S.W.), 70, and knight
Arthur Rickard (N.S.W.), 71, on 17th; war his-
torian Dr. C. E. W. Bean, 60, Justice Davidson
(N.S.W.), 61, and pastoralist knight Norman
Kater (N.S.W.), 65, on 18th; Maurice Black-
burn, M.H.R. (Bourke), 59, knight Donald
Cameron (former M.H.R. for Lilley), 60, and
Prof. Sadler (Syd.), 57, on 19th; W.A. Chief
Sec. W. H. Kitson, 53, and Thos. Paterson,
M.H.R. (Gippsland), 57, on 20th; J. M.
Baddeley, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), 58, A. M. Blain,
M.H.R. (N.T.), 45, and Justice Owen
(N.S.W.), 41, on 21st; Willie Watt (formerly
Federal Treasurer), 68, on 23rd; Bishop Ashton
(Grafton), 73, Vic. Min. of Water Supply
F. E. Old, 64, author Con Drew, 64, and
poetess Dora Wilcox, on 24th; N.S.W. Min.
for Health H. P. FitzSimons, 41, and Flynn of
the Inland, 59, on 25th; Bishop Cranswick
(Gippsland), 57, and poet Roderic Quinn, 70,
on 26th; astronomer Walter Gale (N.S.W.), 74,
and Prof. Windeyer (Syd.), 64, on 27th; Ken-
neth Binns (Federal Parliamentary Librarian),
57, Federal Speaker George Bell, 67, H. E.
Guy (C’wealth Tariff Board), 56, and Prof.
Giblin (C’wealth Bank Board), 67, on 29th.


Stamina Counts
in the Long Run
m
i
m
i
l
G.L
i
•yl %
MODERN life is only a hard, long race in which the unfit drop
out early, leaving the stayers to thrash out the finish. Absolute
fitness of mind and body is so essential to success that the
adoption of sane measures that will ensure increased staying
powers is absolutely necessary. The moderate use of Wolfe’s
Schnapps is one such measure, for Wolfe’s is both a stimulant
of the highest order and a medicinal beverage with pronounced
benefits to the system. Wolfe’s stands pre-eminent as a diuretic,
assisting the kidneys to function more thoroughly and easily in
their task of cleansing the system. Thus Wolfe’s is directly
responsible for bringing about a greater resistance to disease,
greater powers of endurance.
Always keep a bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps in your home. As
well as a general tonic, it is a safe, pure stimulant for emergencies.
OLFE
OF HOLLAND
~ - THIS
SBBKEiTIC ALCOHOLIC BEVERAQ
& exclusively in Holland, ar
fF Worrmfted not only pure from every injQ
tot-prcperty and ingredient, but it is also <
dssible quality* ***••
attention of Agsats«and Purch
w invited to the Signa Pore* aid address
ttlß latH»K=and to the Title or this Aroma
■Wrnlwltc Cordial. embofsejl* ftp the sides
am-Houle as protection against inferior a
prrmnotut—imitations.
Rotterdam
iJdttmu every Attompt at infringement will
wewrmndyiorutwiaod and tho inf ringers vigorou
ET: 1 PINT 8 Ft. OZS.
Wolfe’s Schnapps is obtain-
able at all Racecourse Booths,
or in large, half and quarter
size hbttles at all hotels.
\
rjh-cmilic SJmfm
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH b bA*v
WS. 141. B


ABORIGINALITIES
“Darken”: Where I work we are
undergoing another of those periodical
speed-up campaigns, calling for increased
sweat and efficiency. At the moment our
harassed foreman’s stock phrase is:
“Every man must pull his weight now.”
Old Gus, who works on the wharf, is
more or less impervious to these plagues.
Line in hand, he was moving a coke-
lighter along the wharf when the “pan-
nikin” bustled up with his usual line of
patter. Gus eyed him a while. “Listen,”
he said. “That’s a seventy-ton punt I’m
pullin’, and the last time I weighed I
went ten-stone-four. Work it out, son,
work it out.”
* * * *
“Caledonicus”: A recent discovery in
New Caledonia is a kauri pine forest
growing at over 5000 ft. above sea level.
“Sniffter’s got his gas mask on already.”
Some timber authorities claim that the
kauri only grows between 600 ft. and
1200 ft. elevations; I have seen it
growing densely at up to 3000 ft. But the
N.C. discovery must be about a world’s
record as regards altitude for this species
of pine.
* * * *
“Bungham”: October is the month
when the great cattle trek starts to the
Dargo High Plains, Victoria, and until
the end of November mobs of from
500 to 700 will be driven round the sides
of dizzy gorges, ’way up past the snow-
gums, until they pass through the high
wooden gate that marks the entrance to
the High Plains, 5000 ft. above sea level.
When the great drive is complete there
will be between 5000 and 6000 Herefords
running on the plateau. There they will
stay for the next seven months, waxing
fat on the luscious pastures, tended by
three or four cattlemen. Mustering such
a mob in that country sounds a tough
job for a small party ; but the liberal use
of coarse salt facilitates matters. At the
cattlemen’s first cry salt-hungry cattle
thunder in from all directions, and in a
short time hundreds of them are licking
the salt off the ground. Next May, at
the first sign of snow, the cattle and their
calves will be driven down to the low-
lands.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: The other day I listened to
a lyrebird giving imitations of familiar
bush sounds. Bird-calls were given with
unfailing verisimilitude until it tackled
the kookaburra’s ; but feeble indeed were
its efforts to recapture the raucous
cachinnations of that cynical fowl. Which
reminds me that all similar efforts
to get Jacky’s laugh off have ended in
ignominious defeat for every other lyre-
bird I’ve ever heard.
* * * *
“Verri”: “B. A. Ker” on whistling
lizards made my mind easy on a
point that has puzzled me for years.
After a week of heavy rain I came on
a frilled lizard so caked in mud he seemed
doomed. It took me half an hour to
gently dig him out. I moved away in
the midst of my good work to pick up a
stick some distance off, and turned in
astonishment at a sudden whistle, so loud
that I looked down on the Goulburn
plain to see if a train was passing. None
was, and I gazed incredulously at the
only other possible source of the whistle
—the lizard. I dismissed the idea as
fantastic ; but if blue-tongues can whistle
I am prepared to swear frillies also have
this accomplishment.
* * * *
“E.W.H.”: Most of us have picked
up the bush tricks we know from old
bushmen. The mulga-whacker who first
initiated me into the “dropped hat”
method of distracting a snake’s attention
while its owner looks for the necessary
waddy was an ancient whose habitat was
the Northern Territory. He swore that
the “hat trick” had failed him only once
in his experience. “And that,” he said,
“was because the ‘man scent’ ’ad gorn
out of me ’at. Yer see, in them days I
useter ride a ’orse what was fond of beer,
and when I gets to Pine Creek the cow
wouldn’t pass the pub without ’is drink.
So 1 goes in and fills me ’at with beer
a couple of times for ’im. Nex’ day I
spots a big brown snake on the road and
I tries the old hat trick on him, but it
don’t work. Then I wakes up to what
it was—the ’ops is more powerful than
the sweat-band, and that there reptile
didn’t reckernise it as a man’s cady!”
* * * *
“Mulga”: One of our best botanical
flytraps is the oleander. Unfortunately
ir won’t grow away from cultivated con-
ditions. If only it would roll its swag
and go bush it would end our sheepfly
troubles in short order, for when in
“ Ave a look ’long ’ere, boays. I been find back of a lode.”
flower —which is nearly all the time—
the odor of its blossoms seems to have
a weird attraction for the blowfly. As
soon as the fly puts its tongue out to
lap up the nectar in the flower-cup a rat-
trap device closes on it.
* * * *
“Horseface”: Touching these wild horses
and their taming (B. 4/10/’39). Are there
any Aboliars in a position to give an expert
opinion on the nature, ingredients and
effect of certain mixtures said to be used
by some shrewdies who have tired of
having their back teeth jarred every time
the stiff-legged cyclone lands and their
inner works disorganised each time he
starts turning Catherine-wheels under
them? I once had a prescription handed
me by a redoubtable brumby-runner and
Station manager of a bygone day which he
said was infallible for quietening a dan-
gerous horse ; another, as capable, laughed
the roof off at the idea that anything of
the kind would work; a professional
brumby-runner and horsebreaker allowed
me as a special favor to sniff a concoc-
tion which included the parings of a
wart from the inside of a foal’s forelegs
and the scrapings from the gums of an-
other foal. He guaranteed it would
quieten the breast of the fiercest man-
eater, but only temporarily.
* * * *
“Timothy Tywire”: I’ve occasionally
come across two rams with their horns
interlocked —and a nice job it was sepa-
rating them! —or a ram hooked up by
his horn to a wire fence ; but the queer-
est predicament in which I ever found
one was on the Winton road a few miles
out of Hughenden (n.-w. Q.). Coming
to a cross fence I saw some strange ob-
struction on the by-pass grid. Investiga-
tion revealed a ram, its four legs hanging
down between the bars, held prisoner in
the centre of the grid. Evidently it had
thought itself a better hurdler than it
proved to be.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “Waranbini” (B.
11 /10/’39) reminds me of our camp cook
Jimmy Ah Quong. When we had Jimmy
and his old muzzle-loader with us we
were never short of a succulent game-pie
or stew. Wild duck, magpie-goose, cor-
morant, young swan and brolga, coot,
blue crane, spoonbill, ibis, plover, cur-
lew, cockatoo, galah, bronzewing and
grey magpie—all went into his steamer
with a pint or so of water, a liberal allow-
ance of dripping, onions and seasoning,
and cooked until the flesh came away
from the bones. But, unlike “W.’s”
poisoner, Jimmy had no time for the crow
as a table bird: he had another use for
the scavenger. “You savee, boss,” said
he, “eatem clow no goo’ fashion. Mo’
bettah makem clow medsin. S’pose you
mallied long time you’ missee no
catchem littee fella. You shootem clow,
puttem longa fiah, burnem up all sem
charco’. You’ missee puttem charco’
longa clockelly basin, glindem up, nuxem
cup wattah, glass bean, any ing. -
day dlinkem two-tlee time-bimeby welly
soon catchem littee fella. By cip , »
clow medsin allogedder numbah wan nrs
chop.” # #
* „ * •„ctarlins
. N crasher
as birdland’s champ on
Whether it he feed mg pounds or
nesting places, ,JL weieht of
muscle in and by
numbers compel . ,
t 0 vacate. And effective
reluctant minorities is just as effective
as Adolfs, ven •,
defender of the avian home site wilts
before their maddening loquacity. Re-
cently I saw a flock of the chatty fliers
foraging among the powdered spume on
the seashore. A number of gulls watched
the interlopers with unfriendly eyes. T!he>
made no move to dispute their encroach-
ment; but I’m tipping a decent little
scrap in that sector one of these days.
* * * *
“Atrax”: What is the height of the
tallest living tree in Australia to-day?
The chairman of the Vic. Forestry Com-
mission has described one of 310 ft. as
having survived the last bushfires, and
considers that taller ones still probably
exist in the State. Fifty years ago, Fer-
dinand von Mueller recorded a Eucalyp-
tus amygdalina of 471 ft. measured by a
surveyor at the foot of Mt. Baw-fiaw
(Vic.). Another in the Cape Otway
ranges was 415 ft. He also described the
karri ( E. diversicolor ) as “a colossal tree,
exceptionally reaching the height of 400 ft.
.... Mr. Muir measured stems nearly
300 ft. long without a branch.” The manna
gum ( E. viminalis), grey ironbark (E,
raverstiana) and messmate (E. obliqua )
are credited by him with observed heights
up to 300 ft., and the bluegum ( E.
globulus ) with 350 ft.
“Mulgo”: A tank-sinker’s camp on the
Paroo at which I called boasted “mod.
cons.” The family lived in a two-roomed
hessian house—a cool summer residence
in that part. All the* woodwork was bolted
together, so that it could be erected and
dismantled easily. Water was “laid on” ;
the supply had to be obtained from a
creek about three miles away, and was
carted in a square iron tank. The dray
stood under a bough shed beside the back
wall of the living-room. An iron pipe was
passed through the wall, and was screwed
on to a straight tap in the tank. An
ordinary tap was secured to the other
end of the pipe. Another convenience
was a showerbath rigged to the limb of a
tree in the open. The container was a
kerosene-tin with a perforated bottom ;
a false bottom of wood was tacked in-
side, with a valve in the centre worked
with a cord.
* * * #
“Laetitia”: “Mulgo’s” publican’s ac-
counting (B. 11/10/’39) reminds me of a
wheelwright in W.Q. who scorned the
niceties of double-entry in his book-
keeping. His smithy itself constituted a
ledger, one wall being the debit side on
which all his own unpaid bills were
spiked on a row of nails; on the other
wall, representing the credit side, each
account was skewered on to another
row of nails as it was paid. He habitu-
ally recorded his customer’s indebtedness
on any handy piece of timber lying about,
after which it was stacked in a corner
till required. One day I heard a selector
ask for his account. This called for a
lot of timber-shifting until light dawned
on the blacksmith, and I heard him call
to his assistant: “Hey, Tom! Run down
town and see if you can pick up
Moloney’s grocer’s cart. It’ll either be at
Grogan’s or the Royal Exchange. I used
Mr. Wiregrass’s ledger account to make
a tailboard for it.”
“THERE’S ONLY TWO OF US
HERE.”
I camped one night in an empty hut on the
side of a lonely hill;
I didn’t go much on empty huts, but the night
was awful chill.
So I boiled me billy and had me tea, and seen
that the door was shut,
Then I went to bed in an empty bunk by the
side of the old slab hut.
It must have been about twelve o’clock —I was
feeling cosy and warm—
When at the foot of me bunk I sees a horrible
ghostly form.
It seemed in shape to be half an ape with a
head like a chimpanzee;
But wot the ’ell was it doin’ there, and wot
did it want with me?
You may say if you please that I had d.ts.
or call me a crimson liar,
But I wish you had seen it as plain as me
with its eyes like coals of fire.
Then it gave a moan and a horrible groan that
curdled me blood with fear,
And, “There’s only two of us here,” it ses,
“there’s only two of us here!”
I kept one eye on the old hut door and one
on the awful brute;
I only wanted to dress meself and get to the
door and scoot.
But I couldn’t find where I’d left me boots
so I hadn’t a chance to clear;
And, “There’s only two of us here,” it moans,
“there’s only two of us here!”
I hadn’t a thing to defend meself, not even a
stick or stone;
And, “There’s only two of us here! ” it ses
again with a horrible groan.
I thought I’d better make some reply, though
I reckoned me end was near:
“By the holy smoke, when I finds me boots
there’ll be only one of us here!”
I gets me hands on me number tens and out
through the door I scoots,
And I lit the whole of the hillside up with
the sparks from me blucher boots.
So I’ve never slept in a hut since then, and
I tremble and shake with fear
When I think of that horrible form wot
moaned, “There’s only two of us here! ”
VICTORIA.
Edward Harrington.


“Wang”: The choral society was prac-
tising glees and part-songs at Dad Grey-
box’s place in preparation for the church
concert. Amongst the choristers was
Joe, the Greybox farm-hand, who stut-
tered badly in conversation. He seemed
unpossessed of any vocal affliction, how-
ever, as he stood there with his head
back, giving it lip. Dad watched him for
a while, and then something about the
hand’s performance made him say to
Mum, “Dunno what they’ve got Joe in
it fer. He alius seems to be a coupla
notes, or whatever you call ’em, behind
the others.” “He’s all right,” replied
Mum, smiling. “That’s what his part in
the song i§, you know. He’s singin’ what
they call ‘seconds.’ ” Dad pondered over
this for a minute or so, then he said
brightly, “Oh! I see. These ’ere sorta
songs is made up so that blokes like
Joe can take part in ’em, an’ he’s gotter
sing a bit behind the others! A jolly
good idea too. They couldn’t expect a
bloke like Joe to keep up with ’em if
they all started together orf scratch.”
* * * =i=
“B. A. Ker”: Can’t say I’ve seen that
bush ritual of alien origin “bedding-
down the fire” (B. 11/10/’39), but
“Kelly’s Rule” is often applied. When a
mob of fellows camped together are
“tuckering” themselves, a common prac-
tice is to take day about at being bab.
and bottle-washer. This arrangement,
satisfactory during the day, sometimes
gets the acting babbler a bit restive when
the diners sit overlong at tea, thereby
holding up the washing-up. Hence the
application of Kelly’s Rule —that the last
man to finish his tea washes up and
lights the fire in the morning. It’s a grand
institution for the speedy eaters, but
mighty bad for the digestion.
* * * *
“Quareef”: Owing to the unusual suc-
cession of rainstorms which visited far-
western N.S.W. during autumn, a super-
abundance of plant-growth —for this dry
locality—has resulted. Following prece-
dent, a crop of wiseacre naturalists have
“I just thought I'd patch the tube up for you.”
arisen overnight, and, vying with each
other, spend week-ends touring outback
areas searching for what they term
“freak growths.” In most cases their
freaks are merely a rare species of some
common plant tribe or wildflower. The
Sturt pea, for instance. Its bloom is red
with black eyes. Yet in times of luxuriant
growth, as now, other colors can be
found. Some display white flowers,
others pink- or red-streaked white flowers,
ornamented with eye-tonings in shades
of red, white or black. The western
slopes of Scopes Range probably harbor
the most extensive assortment of these
rare species. Again, our common wild
lilac has flowers usually of a purplish
hue. Nevertheless, the bright orange or
red lilac is often seen, and this year, for
the first time, I’ve located white lilacs.
Two such plants grow near Quartz Reef
homestead. During five weeks of close
observation they have bloomed and
formed seed-pods. Definitely they are
not freaks —just a rare variety.
* * * *
“Padflogger”: Any wayfarer able to
use a saddle as a pillow (B. 13/9/’39) is
really sleeping de luxe. Try the good old
pioneer pillow, a pair of boots, bluchers
for preference, wrapped in a coat. My
old man gave me the recipe when start-
ing me on my travels. (“That’s how we
slept tramping from Melbourne to Bal-
larat,” or from Sydney to Hill End, or on
some similar gold-seeking pilgrimage.)
And a hundred, perhaps a thousand,
times, while struggling to obtain even the
minimum of comfort from such an
arrangement, I have heartily cursed that
parental advice. For no matter how dex-
terously one may wrap the trotter-cases
in the coat they will persist in slipping,
the stiffening of an upper jagging one in
the cheek, while the heelplate of the other
bores into the base of one’s skull. And
the tragedy is that boots and a coat are
about the only articles available for
pillow-building to the padflogger with
Matilda up. I have known seekers after
luxury carry a sugarbag, which every
night they stuffed with grass —if avail-
able. But grass wasn’t always avail-
able. Never try stuffing such a bag with
twigs—worse, far, than the boots-and-
coat combination. Recently I struck an
aristocrat with an air cushion.
£ c n
“Lyndo” : Mention in The Bulletin
of the tomato (B. 11/10/’39) recalls that
that elusive whatsthis has at last been
classified. Long argument about it and
about had the vegetable and fruit schools
at loggerheads for donkey’s years, but
authority has at last made the final pro-
nouncement —it is a berry.
':s r r B
“Dominic”: In an umbrageous tree in
our W.A. suburban street two tiny white-
eyes made a marriage contract and set up
housekeeping. Before long two eggs were
laid and the lady partner commenced to
sit. Even the kids in the street were
taken by this tender episode and sedu-
lously left the nest alone. Hatching-time
drew near. Then came a magpie. With
javelin beak the pied scoundrel put the
prospective mother to flight. With the
same beak he next speared an egg, and
with gusto gobbled down the unhatched
inmate. But the second egg he simply
dropped 20ft. to the ground. Then, as
virtuous-looking as a churchwarden, he
flew away, leaving the white-eye home
and hearth desolate.
* * •* *
“Fellaheen”: “Shorus” needn’t snort
too loud at that English lady who thought
the Maoriland kowhai-tree was a native
of China (B. 27/9/’39). Arrived on the
W.A, goldfields, one of the first things
that took my eye was half a dozen shad-,
offs standing on the dry expanse of Han-
nan’s lake. To the initiated a shadoff
is a water-raising device consisting of a
long pole unequally pivoted over the
mouth of a shallow well, the short side
of the leverage carrying the rope and
bucket, the long side extending outwards,
with a sizable stone fastened to the far
end. A forked sapling usually serves as
a fulcrum. Straddling the well the water-
hauler exerts effort in sending the empty
bucket downwards. But it requires only
about the same effort to raise the full
bucket, the long end of the lever, with
its balance-weight, doing most of the lift-
“ If you don't come back, Steve, can I finish your lunch ?”
ing—a labor-saving device used by Father
Abraham. Kids of 50 years ago, study-
ing Kitchener’s relief of Khartoum, knew
the shadoff from pictures of the Nile in
illustrated papers. “What yer callin’ a
shadoff?” snorted almost the first bloke
I met. “That’s a mickery. We had them
in West Queensland. Kidman, the cattle
king, invented them.” And I nearly
collected a “clip over the ear” as a cheeky
kid who denied to bearded Bananalanders
that the shadoff was an invention of their
home State. Mickery they called it; shad-
off they rejected with scorn.
* * * *
“Naturala”: The ability to smell water
from long distances is enjoyed by most
animals. Smell, after all, is only the sen-
sation caused by the impact of flying
radio-active particles on the living
diaphragm, the blood-filled vessels inside
the nose ; and water is radio-active. We
humans usually have such a plenty of it
around that we have long lost its savour.
But should one be doing a severe perish
and suddenly come on a pool, there is no
question then but that the fluid of life
has a subtle, elusive perfume. Probably
everything on this earth has its scent,
since everything is more or less radio-
active. Organic matter undergoing de-
composition is extremely so. And so
that we shall not eat such dangerous
stuff Nature makes its radio-activity an
offence to our noses, whilst the blowfly,
useful in promoting decomposition, finds
it a delight. To entice the bee Nature
gives the flower a scent, also attractive to
humans. When the flower dies its radio-
activity diminishes, its scent disappears.
Metals have scent. The dingo can smell
the iron of a trap. Blood, the actual life
stream, is very radio-active ; note how
cattle come running, half-frantic, when
a beast has been slaughtered. And how
the sharks come around when blood is
spilt in the sea!
* * * *
“P.G.K.”: Visited a dairyman where
new milking-machines had just been in-
stalled, and was told that the cows didn’t
even need stripping. I remonstrated, add-
ing that the last few drops in the cow
were pretty well pure cream. Mrs.
Farmer looked at me in undisguised pity.
“Oh, you can’t tell me that the cows
separate their own milk!” she said.
* * * *
“A.H.”: When Bill came back from
the city with Lucille, who coyly played
with the gold band round her finger, it
was discussed with more interest than
the prospective fate of the Melbourne
Cup. It was incomprehensible that Bill,
whose views on the weaker sex were
usually prefaced with the great Aus-
tralian adjective, should have renounced
his gods. We were wondering how long
it would be before Bill started bending
the elbow in an effort to forget. Time
moved on, and there was still no evidence
of dissatisfaction with his lot. Bill was
looking better and getting fatter. It
seemed as though he had found a pearl.
Then came the fly in the tanglefoot. He
had come from the city and stayed at the
pub. He was tall, dark and his hair was
shiny with grease. I saw him talking to
Lucille one day while Bill was away.
Two weeks later I saw Lucille in his
car, and there were a couple of suitcases
on the back seat. I wondered what would
happen when Bill found out. We were
talking it over in the pub when Bill
walked in. “She’s left me,” said Bill.
We duly sympathised, talking about the
unreliability of women. It was Steven-
son who brought up the matter of
divorce. Bill looked thoughtful. “Stevo,”
he said, “I wish I could get a divorce.
It’d save me shattered pride.” Stevo
pointed out that a divorce should be easy.
The evidence was all in Bill’s favor. But
Bill scotched that possibility once and
for all. “Stevo,” he said, “you know the
bloke she run away with?” Stevo shook
his head. “Well,” said Bill, “that was
Lucille’s husband. She’s gorn back to
him, an’ if you know any way I can git
a divorce you tell me.”
* * * *
“Dominic”: I wish I could endorse
those encomiums regarding the chivalry
of the equine given by recent Aboliars.
But I have vivid memories of a tiny
corpse lying on a vacant block in a Perth
suburb. Just a couple of kids thinking
it a bit of fun to drive away a mob of
straying horses. One brute lashed out,
and his aim was accurate. Take no
tickets on equine chivalry, but warn your
child to keep away from the heels of any
horse, and especially never to chase or
drive away strange nags.
* * * *
“Skull Creek”: As a mob of hill-bred
Herefords were being driven to the
saleyards of a Victorian township a boy
on a bike came out from a side street
right in front of the cattle. One of the
leaders charged, and finished up with the
cycle wedged firmly on his horns, while
a badly scared but unhurt lad managed
to gain the safety of a fence. The com-
bination of bullock and bike started the
most spectacular stampede ever seen in
those parts. Half a dozen of the baldies
dashed in to the pub yard, and after
colliding with a stack of crated empties
emerged in a shower of broken glass to
sweep away a clothesline and contents
and upset a baby car standing in the
entrance. Another party of the hill
visitors smashed through in to the pig-
yards and released a squealing crowd of
porkers, whose owners spent a blas-
phemous afternoon rounding them up
from hotel parlors and other places of
refuge. The main body of the cattle
swept down the main street, taking with
them a number of saddlehorses trailing
broken reins and every able-bodied dog
in the township. Strangely enough,
little damage was done, except to the
nervous systems of certain portly citizens,
and the bullocks were rounded up with-
out much trouble —probably owing to
their unfamiliar surroundings.
THE GREAT VIRTUE.
In camp or shed or on the track,
Where all types freely fraternise —
From coves who can’t avoid the sack
To cranks who preach and moralise —
One quality they’ll emphasise:
And proud is he of whom they say
(And thereby greatly eulogise)
“He’d never crawfish, anyway!”
His morals may, perhaps, be slack,
And rumors follow him like flies;
His character be painted black
By deeds too murky to disguise;
But still he’s jake in bushmen’s eyes
If he can boast one shining trait,
That’s mostly summed up in this wise:
“He’d never crawfish, anyway!”
The chap who in a pinch will crack;
Who backs and fills with his replies,
Or yields to any mug’s attack '
Has weaknesses which all despise.
And so he never qualifies
For that most precious verbal bay,
For which each dinkum Aussie tries:
“He’d never crawfish, anyway!”
Envoi.
Prince, even you could scarce devise
A better epitaph, I’ll lay,
Than this, for all that it implies:
“He never crawfished, anyway!”
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


£i
KING THE ROAD”
ITfil
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths Heuse, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane..
South Australia: Claridge House, 52—56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Yarra Falls, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 96,117 10 p.c. = 76,500 19,617 165,057
1930.. 77,003 8 „ „ 70,500 6,503 171,560
1931.. 61,272 5 „ „ 45,000 6,272 177,832
1932.. 66,625 6 „ ~ 54,000 12,625 190,457
Stock appreciation, £20,000 .. .. 210,457
1933.. 98,693 9 p.c. = 81,000 17,693 228,150
1934.. 105,279 10 „ „ 90,000 15,279 243,429
Flood loss, £64,088 179,341
1935.. 102,185 8 p.c. = 72,000 30,185 209,526
1936.. 107,124 10 „ „ 90,000 17,124 226,650
1937.. 109,466 10 „ „ 90,000 19,466 246,116
Share premiums, £49,168 ■ . .. 295,284
1938.. 105,271 10 p.c. = 96,146 9,125 304,409
1939.. 115,433 10 ~ „ 99,834 15,599 320,008
This co., whose own mills are at
Abbotsford (Vic.), together with its
almost equally large subsidiary, Globe
Worsted Mills, at Marrickville (N.S.W.),
is the largest yarn-spinning and woollen
. and worsted manufacturing business in
the Commonwealth. It used to be part
of the A.K.M.-Yarra Falls textile group,
but about three years ago a policy of
isolation was decided upon and there
was a shake-out of interlocking share
interests. Yarra Falls didn’t suffer any
loss in respect of earning power. Indeed,
to finance all-round expansion of busi-
ness, it put out 98,336 new £1 shares at a
premium of 10s. each shortly before the
close of accounts in 1937, and went
outside for more besides.
During the 12 months covered by
the lastest accounts, all the co.’s
mills worked to capacity, thus en-
abling the new plant, etc., to make
a more substantial contribution to the
pool. Also, the low price of wool helped
to partly offset the continued rise in
cost of production and distribution —
wages alone show a 20 p.c. increase since
1937. Including a div. of £33,750 (up
£751) from the subsidiary, equal to 7.5
p.c. on its capital, the spring in Yarra’s
gross earnings (£145,359) was £15,310.
Exes. (£29,926) took only £5148 of the
increase, leaving the net result (£115,433)
£10,162 stronger at 11.5 p.c. on capital
as against 10.9, 12.2, 11.9, 11.3, 11.6,
10.9 and 7.4 p.c. back to 1932. The
combined net earnings of Yarra and its
subsidiary were £117,946, or 11.8 p.c.
on Yarra’s capital; so practically the
whole of the subsidiary’s declared net
earnings were passed on. The div. was
kept at 10 p.c.
Adjustment of the national economy
from a peace- to a war-time footing is
proceeding smoothly, and is accom-
panied by an extensive scheme of price
control and increases in taxation and
other costs. Also, though there will
be more money about, the Govern-
ment will mop up much of the extra
cash in loans and taxes of one kind and
another. Still, well-handled and stoutly-
ribbed concerns like Yarra Falls, which
can expect to reap some direct benefit
from defence expenditure, should give a
satisfactory account of themselves.
Balance-sheet figures compare as fol-
lows :
1934. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. .. £900,000 £998,336 £998,336
Creditors and deposits* 96,413 101,317 140,358
Freeholds . . . . 129,716 188,586 187,819
Plant, etc 205,156 248,411 244,145
Stocks 221,102 318,104 375,186
Sundry debtors.. .. 98,100 114,097 104,652
Advances, etc. .. .. 16.899 58.300 57,745
Cash, etc 114,068 38,545 33,934
Shares in other cos. . . 521,169' 509,305 510,168
* Including tax provision.
The year’s growth of £57,082 in stocks
is a heartening feature, considering that
the average price of wool (lOjrd. per
pound last season) has been fixed at
134 d. for the current clip. The amount
coming to outsiders, which includes an
unspecified provision for taxation, in-
creased by £39,071. The more or less
liquid surplus (£431,129) was £3400
stronger than at the previous balance.
The combined figures of the parent and
its subsidiary show a more or less liquid
surplus of £572,811.
The market prices the pound shares
at 425. as against 365. 6d. a year ago.
At the higher figure the return is 4.7
p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. On the com-
bined figures, the backing is 275. 3d. in
net tangibles.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
, Dividends
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1929.. 34,030 2100 4200 22,901 4,829 25,574
1930.. 7,156 2100 4200 Nil 856 26,430
Loss.
1931.. 25,203 Nil Nil Nil 1,227
Deficit.
1932.. 17,757 Nil Nil Nil 16,530
Profit. 18.1 p.c.*
1933.. 7,711 5434 4200 Nil 18,453
5.4 18.9 2*
p.c. p.c.* p.c.
1934.. 23,787 1627 9923 9,542 2,695 15,758
6.2 p.c. 4 p.c.
1935.. 27,944 1627 3255 15,268 7,794 7,964
5 p.c.
1936.. 31,713 1627 3255 19,084 7,747 217
6 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 39,030 1800 3255 22,901 11,074 10,857
5.4 p.c. 5 p.c.
1938.. 26,850 1627 3255 19,084 2,884 1.3,741
1939.. 31,969 1627 3255 19,084 8,003 21,744
* Including arrears..
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, trading conditions —the
co. is in the high-grade furniture, fur-
nishing drapery and china business! —
became more difficult, and costs con-
tinued to climb. The spring of £5119 in
net earnings was due to the writing down
of certain imported stocks at the pre-
vious balance, when there was a sharp
contraction of £12,180 in net earnings.
The £31,969 of profit claimed was 6.8
p.c. on capital (pref. and ord. combined)
compared with 5.7, 8.4, 6.8 and 6 p.c.
back to 1935.
The £464,187 of share capital is in
30,000 first 7 p.c. and 52,500 second 8
p.c. cum. prefs. and 381,687 ords. Under
the N. S. Wales Interest Reduction Act,
which has outlived the purpose for which
it was created, the pref. divs. are subject
to a 22j p.c. cut, reducing them to 5.4
p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respectively, with the right
to advance with the ords. beyond these
points to their original contract rates.
Following a four-year drought, the ords.
got back into the picture with 2} p.c. in
1934, followed by 4, 5 and then 6 p.c. in
’37. The rate dropped to 5 p.c. again in
’3B, when payment to the first prefs.
automatically fell from 6 p.c. to the
minimum 5.4 p.c.; the seconds continued
to receive their minimum 6.2 p.c. The
ord. div. was kept at 5 p.c. for the last
term, though the profit claimed was suf-
ficient to have paid the prefs. their full
contract rates, together with 5 p.c. to
the ords., and leave £6585 for reserves,
which, at £21,744, are none too stout a
prop for capital—goodwill (£67,660) is
not treated as an asset herein.
Balance-sheet movements are encour-
aging :
1930. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Capital . . £464,187 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Liabilities* . . 141,131 131,810 133,903 99,981
Freeholds, etc. 190.876 272,252 272,252 272,252
Machinery, plant,
etc. .. 47,521 36,573 31,272 26,586
Stocks . . 304,992 207.890 222,748 181,718
Book debts . . 85,462 84,446 91,339 112,191
Cash, etc. .. 6,047 8,511 6,203 5,147
* Including provision for taxation.
The most heartening feature last term
was a reduction of £41,030 in stocks,
which are the most vulnerable point in the
co.’s armour.* The reduction of £33,922
in outside liabilities and growth of
£20,852 in debtors’ balances are pleasing
movements, too. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£199,075) was £12,688. Improvements
now being made to premises should
make the shop still more attractive to
customers.
As for the current term, appearances
are that there will be some slackening in
the rate of activity in flat-construction
and home-building and the furnishing
that goes with them, while costs and
taxes remain on the up-grade. Still, there
was a comfortable margin between last
year’s earnings and and
balance-sheet movements suggest that the
management is alive to its problems.
On the market the ords. fetch 11s. 3d.
and the firsts and seconds 18s. each, com-
pared with 17s. 9d., 21s. 6d. and 21s. re-
spectively a year ago. At current prices
the return is 8.8 p.c., 6 p.c. and 6.9 p.c.
respectively at last term’s rates of distri-
bution. The net tangible cover is 21s. Id.
ords., £l6 3s. lid. firsts and £8 13s. Bd.
seconds.
Melbourne Steamship Co., Ltd.
Nominal
, To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 41,455 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 25,360 16,095 411,632
1930.. 65,409 6 „ 9 „ 32,160 33,249 444,881
Written off, £30,026 414,855
1931.. 9,127 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 18,560 405,422
1932.. 33,922 6 „ 5 „ 18,560 15,362 420,784
1933.. 46,320 6 „ 6 „ 21,960 24,360 445,144
1934.. 46,150 6 „ 6 „ 21,960 24,190 469,334
Unexplained additions, £28.731* .. 498,065
1935.. 35,732 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 13,772 511,837
Net unexplained reduction, £27,008.. 484,829
1936.. 20,244 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 21,960 483,113
To staff fund, £24,260 . . . . 458,853
Unexplained additions, £47,903 .. 506, 156
1937.. 34,180 -6 p.c. 6* p.c. 23,660 10,520 517,276
Unexplained additions, £30,598 .. 547,874
1938.. 33,037 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 25,360 7,677 555,551
Unexplained additions, £49,208 . . 604,759
1939.. 34,320 6 p.c. 8 p.c. 28,760 5,560 610,319
*lncludes profit on sale of Consols.
The fleet consists of the Duntroon —a
10,000-ton passenger-and-cargo motor
vessel, which took up the inter-State run
in 1935 —four cargo vessels and a couple
of tugs, the lot aggregating 22,981 tons
gross.
Earnings of the fleet are supplemented
by takings from lighters, etc., by re-
turns from the coal and coke distribut-
ing section of the business, and by in-
come from outside investments. During
the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts earnings were unaffected by
anything of an abnormal character.
Despite increased operating, overhaul
and repair costs, net earnings were £1283
better at £34,320, or enough to pay the
pref. div. (£1560) and show 9.6 p.c. on
the £340,000 of ord. capital as against
9.2, 9.6, 5.5, 10 and 8.8 p.c. back to
1934. The div. was lifted from 7 p.c.
to 8 p.c.
The profit, which included a div. of
£4OOO (19.8 p.c. on book value of hold-
ing) from the subsidiary, Hobson’s Bay
Dock and Engineering Co., and £4905
from other investments, was written
after £49,208 (£30,598 in the previous
term) dropped from somewhere into
reserves, mainly in respect of deprecia-
tion, for which last year’s allowance was
£41,834, equal to 4.8 p.c. of the book
value of fixed assets, making total pro-
vision under this heading £343,493.
The war isn’t likely to cause shrink-
age in the volume of inter-State cargoes,
and the action of the navy in taking
over some coastal craft has increased
the volume of business available for the
remainder. Although no ships have yet
been lost to the enemy in Australian
waters, premium rates on inter-State
marine risks went up with a rush fol-
lowing the declaration of war. These
rates have been substantially reduced
since, to the benefit of shippers as
well as shipowners. Unless something
unexpected happens, prospects of the 8
p.c. div. being repeated for the current
term seem bright enough, despite the
lift in taxes and other costs, both of
which can be expected to increase
further.
There is nothing to worry about in
the finances:
1931. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £366,000 £366,000 £366,000 £366,000
Liabilities . . 44,760 71,948 95,451 92,740
Steamers, etc. 414,525 727,831 800,386 801,247
Freehold, plant 51,698 54,229 54,238 55,300
Stores, etc. . . 8,031 17,133 26,199 34,520
Book debts . . 57,874 57,565 63,840 78,205
I lives tinents,
cash .. 291,633 104,007 85,019 146,890
Chief movements last term were the
addition of £61,871 to investments and
cash, £14,365 to book debts and £8321
to stores, etc. Allowing for payment of
the final divs. (£16,080), the year’s im-
provement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£150,795) was £83,868.
At 30s. 6d. (28s. a year ago) the
pound ords. return 5.2 p.c. on'an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The net tangible cover is
555. lid., of which 20s. 3d. is represented
by the depreciation reserve. The well-
protected prefs. seldom come on to the
market,
Standard Insurance Co. (Maoriland).
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 55,570 124 p.c -25,000 )
Provident fund, £3500 1,1 d 74 ’ 02,i
1930. . 41,798 124 p.c.= 25,000 (~ qqo oqq Q9l
Provident fund, £lBOO .. J 14,yj8
Written off premises, £6286 .. 382,735
1931.. 16,490 12-J p.c.= 25,0001 _ .07979 =
Provident fund, £l5OO .. ) ’ “
1932.. 34,949 12$ p.c.= 25,000 t ORI n 7.
Provident fund, £l6OO .. 5 ’
1933. . 41,080 124 p.c.== 25,000 t u 4go 395 554
Provident fund, £l6OO .. j ’
1934. . 41,997 12* p.c.= 25,000 (~ 4q7 4U 051
Provident fund, £l5OO ’
1935.. 34.884 12* p.c.= 25,000 1 SMI 41043'-,
Provident fund. £l5OO .. j 8(384 419(430
1936.. 38,312 12* p.e.= 25,000 1 „ Sl , 401947
Provident fund, £l5OO .. f 11(812
1937.. 41,838 12* p.e.= 25,000 16,838 448,085
1938.. 51,221 12* „ „ 25,000 26,221 474,306
1939.. 49,082 12* „,, 25,000 24,082 498,388
Shareholders in this 65-year-old
Dunedin-controlled fire and marine
office are in a very snug position. At
June 30 the £200,000 of paid capital,
of which £125,000 was transferred from
reserves during the eight years to the
close of accounts in 1927, had the sup-
port and assistance of £498,388 of re-
serves. So the two combined, invested
mainly in Government securities in
Maoriland and Australia, had to turn
in only 3.5 p.c. in order to pay p.c.
on capital alone. Actually, interest and
rents brought in a trifle more than that —
£25,885 (up £495), or 12.9 p.c. on capi-
tal-leaving the whole of the under-
writing surplus available to swell invest-
ments and the returns therefrom.
Early in its career the co. singed its
fingers in a scramble to write American
and Russian business; but it soon
abandoned foreign fields, and has since
confined activities to Maoriland and Aus-
tralia. As the volume of premium in-
come swelled —it reached its peak in
1929 —the loss rate rose and the expense
rate fell, but on the whole the manage-
ment succeeded in squeezing a bit more


CENTRE OF AUSTBAIIA'j Utg(n _
4*
O
pe»>.
! wn
*55
PUN
INVEST IN ELECTRICITY!
Electricity Supply is the Industry behind ALL Industry.
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
Controlling Sydney's Electricity Supply-offers
Interest payable half-
yearly, free of exchange,
commencing from date
of payment to the Bank.
o
o
Principal repayable on
15 th November, 1949,
free of exchange.
FOR THE FIRST PUBLIC LOAN OF £600,000
Currency ------- -- - 10 Years. PRICE OF ISSUE ------- -- - P AR.
Debentures or Inscribed Stock may be applied for.
SECURITY WHICH CANNOT BE CHALLENGED
The Loan is secured upon the income of the Council from whatever source arising.
A Cumulative Sinking Fund of 17/8 per cent, per annum will be provided towards redemption of the Loan.
REVENUE AND LOAN INTEREST.
The revenue of the Council in 1938 was
£2,982,000. Loan interest in the same year
was £648,000.
RATING POWER.
The Council is empowered to levy any rate
on the whole of the County District to meet
its Loan commitments. Since, however,
revenue from other sources covers interest on
existing loans five times, no rate has yet
been levied.
AREA SUPPLIED.
The Council, constituted by Act of
Parliament, supplies electricity to an
area of 897 square miles, with a popu-
lation of 1,053,350. It has over
250,000 customers.
No competitive body for the supply of
electricity can be set up without the
approval of the State Government of
New South Wales.
APPLICATIONS FOR LOAN.
Investors may apply for as
little as £5O of Debentures
or Inscribed Stock or for any
larger amount in multiples
of £5O.
SPECIALLY COMMENDED
for Non-taxable Funds,
such as Provident and
Superannuation Funds,
Friendly Societies and
Religious and Charit-
able Organisations.
APPLY NOW
to
THE COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
Head Office or any Branch throughout Australia
or
The Head Office of the Sydney County Council, Sydney,
or
Any Member of a Recognised Stock Exchange.
CONSULT YOUR
BROKER REGARDING
EXCHANGES FROM
LOWER-YIELDING IN-
VESTMENTS INTO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY
COUNCIL LOAN.
LOAN UNDERWRITTEN BY J. B. WERE & SON, Melbourne, Sydney, London, Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
There are no safer Australian investments than Public Body loans. No investor in semi-Governmental loans in
Australia has ever failed to receive his interest and repayment of principal on the due dates.
SUBSCRIPTIONS ARE PAYABLE BY INSTALMENTS IF
DESIRED


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria .)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, 1v.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
KITCHING’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER GOODS.
Leather
Portfolios with
Zipper Fastener.
Sizes:
15in. x lOin.
and 16in. x 11 in.
Prices from:
16/6 to 32/6.
sqm
WWW
Ideal for
Documents,
Catalogues,
Music,
Reports.
C. E. KITCHING
Pty., Ltd.,
319 George Street,
Sydney.
Tel.: BWU33.
(A 'ear Wynyard
Station .)
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and genera] engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts- and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
sadf
ENDURA
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
AND PENCILS
are
Colour Combinations of
unique artistic character in the
modern modes. Smooth, easy-
writing quality. Day by day
dependability. All future re-
quirements provided by the
famous Conklin Endura un-
conditional and perpetual
service guarantee.
A pen for any time . . .
... a pen for all time
Imperishable beauty, unending
utility. The Gift of exquisite
propriety, Conklin Endura
Pen and Pencil Sets are avail-
able in beautiful Presentation
Cases, affording ultra-modern
distinction and style to the Set
which is bestowed as a Gift.
Pens are priced at 30/-
and 40/-, with Pencils to
match 25/-. Complete
Sets in Presentation Case
55/- and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen
Ink—the best for every
Pen 4oz. bottles in all
colours, 1/- per bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores.
if Iff
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
out of the business by way of under-
writing surplus. When premium in-
come fell—it touched its lowest point
in 1934 things were the other way
about, as the following table shows:
Pre- • Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1595.. £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66.5 p.c. 30.7 p.c.
1905.. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54.2 „ 33.2 „
1915.. 127,081 56,947 43,675 44.8 „ 34.3 „
1925.. 210,926 96,978 82,934 45.9 „ 39.3 „
1929.. 335,472 211,692 94,079 63.1 „ 28.0 „
1934.. 149,105 55,192 73,501 37.0 „ 49.2 „
1935.. 152,933 61,416 74,847 40.1 ~ 48.9 „
1936.. 159,309 65,688 76.007 41.2 „ 47.7 „
1937.. 171,848 82,468 71,878 48.0 „ 41.8.,
1938.. 184,880 82,058 75,758 44.3 „ 40.9 „
1939.. 196,882 95,208 75,112 48.3 „ 38.1 „
The spring in last net premiums
was £12,002. The larger business was
written at £646 less cost, but losses made
off with an extra £13,150, leaving the
underwriting surplus £502 lighter at 13.2
p.c. on capital. After taking into the
reckoning £5865 (up £4632) written off
securities and an unexplained addition of
£2500 to reserves, the net result from all
sources was £2139 lighter at 24.5 p.c. on
capital as against 25.6, 20.9, 19.1, 17.4
and 20.9 p.c. back to 1934. The cautious
board kept the div. at p.c.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the solid
financial structure:
1923. 1933 1938 1939
Paid capital. £lOO,OOO £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 32,189 36,108 55,904* 61,984*
Premises .. 13,960 125,239 107,040 105,190
Mortgages .. 41.080 31,280 20,590 20,550
Debentures, etc. 63,205 23,136 32,744 40,664
Consols . . 246,284 385.450 517,100 537,600
Cash, etc. . . 86,440 79,056 65,235 68,866
* Including contingency funds.
Last term most of the spare cash again
went into Government securities (up
£20,500), which accounted for 69.5 p.c. of
the balance-sheet total when the books
closed. Policy-holders could then see net
tangibles equal to 354 p.c. of the year’s
net premiums, whereas 150 p.c. is usually
considered adequate.
Provided the co. continues to confine
its activities to. Australia and the
Dominion, and subject to unexpected
happenings, the outlook for shareholders
should continue to grow more rosy.
At 545. 6d. the £5 shares paid to 20s.
return 4.6 p.c. on a 12i p.c. div. basis,
The coyer is 695. lOd. in net tangibles.
County Council Loan
The Sydney County Council, which
controls the big undertaking that supplies
most of Greater Sydney with electric
light and power, has come on to the local
market for the first time with £600,000
of 4| p.c. 10-year stock or debentures at
par.
It should have no difficulty in get-
ting the money, which is wanted to
finance extensions to the Bunnerong
powerhouse, made necessary by actual
and prospective growth in the demand
for industrial current on account of war
and other contracts. The return com-
pares favorably with that obtainable from
comparable securities in the market, and
the issue, underwritten by J. B. Were
and Son, is secured upon the revenue of
the undertaking. A cumulative sinking
fund, equal to 17s. Bd. p.c. p.a. (£5320),
compounded at not less than 3 p.c. p.a.,
will be provided toward redemption. At
3 p.c. p.a. about would thus be
available at maturity of the loan. In
addition the Council is empowered to
impose a levy, if need be, to meet its loan
comrpitments. Last year’s gross revenue
amounted to £2,982,021. After meeting
administrative, interest, depreciation*and
sinking fund charges, a net surplus of
£93,369 remained.
The loan has a special appeal to insti-
tutional investors, especially those hand-
ling non-taxable funds such as provident
and superannuation money, etc. An
early and sharp rise in interest rates is
not to be expected.
Placer Development, Ltd.
This big gold investor in New Guinea,
S. America, Australia and elsewhere at
present pays $1.20 Canadian annually,
and better appears to be on the way.
Chief producers of the group at the
moment and Placer’s interests therein
are:
Issued Held by
Company. Capital. Placer.
Bulolo Dredging . . $,'5,000,000 30.0 p.c.
Pato Consolidated . . 3,200,000 35.9 ~
Asnazu Dredging .. 1,500,000 41.0 „
Rutherglen G.D. .. £50,000 64!0 ~
Gold Dumps Pty. . . 72,000 83.3 ~
Interests are also held in Clutha Develop-
ment, Placer Management, Canadian Ex-
ploration (all 100 p.c.), Nechi Consoli-
dated (50 p.c.), Golden Queen Mining
Co., Pan-American Engineering and
Universal Placer. The embargo on
trading in overseas scrip without per-
mission of the Federal Treasurer has
been lifted in the case of cos. with capital
in Canadian currency registered in Aus-
tralia.
In the year to May last Bulolo operated
six dredges, with these results:
Year, Treated, Gold, Silver,
May. C.y. - Oz. Oz. Profit.*
1938.. 11,222,000 134,715 58,891 $3,453,463
1939.. 14,688,000 157,725 f 3,874,085
•Before depreciation, etc. ($322,634, 1938).
f Not stated.
Gold recoveries at 2.lgr. compared with
2.4 gr. in ’3B, but increased turnover en-
abled $420,622 more profit to be shown.
No. 7 dredge has been started up since
the close of accounts, and an eighth unit
is scheduled to set in this month. Dredg-
ing reserves are set down at 182,000,000
c.y. (down 10,000,000 c.y.), with a further
20,000,000 c.y. to be handled hydrauli-
cally. Present div. rate is 60 p.c.
The sharp spring of $608,927 in Pato’s
result reflects starting-up of three new
dredges, making five in all:
Year, Treated, Cents,
April, C.y. Value. C.y. Profit.*
1938.. 4,282,000 $636,218 14.8 $244,775
1939.. 14,935,000 2,060,887 13.8 853,702
* After Colombian income taxes, but before depreci-
ation and depletion ($223,440, 1938)
A number of hydraulicking units are
also operated. The co. is now on the div.
list, and payments at the rate of 20 p.c.
р. are expected. At 556,000,000 c.y.,
averaging 14 cents a yard, gravel re-
serves indicate a life of around 37 years
with existing equipment.
At Asnazu dredging reserves have gone
up from 53,500,000 c.y. to 98,000,000 c.y.,
of which 29,000,000 c.y. is estimated to
average 32 cents and 69,000,000 c.y. 13
cents. Last term the co. was in a low-
grade area which had to be handled or
permanently abandoned, and profit was
$364,211 down:
Year, Treated, Cents,
April, C.y. Value. C.y. Profit.*
1938.. 1,508,700 $850,053 56.3 $436,276
1939.. 1,658,700 356,870 21.5 72,065
* After Colombian income taxes, but before depreci-
ation, etc. ($55,490, 1938).
At present only one dredge is being
operated, but construction has com-
menced of a second unit, to dig 4,000,000
с. yearly.
Of the Victorian re-treatment concerns,
Rutherglen Gold Dumps in the year to
April 30 netted £34,718 (up £6955), or
69.4 p.c. on capital, and handed out 50
p.c. The co. treated 188,683 tons of
slum; recoveries averaged o.74dwt. and
all-in costs 3s. as against o.7ldwt.
and 3s. respectively in the preceding
term. Some 715,000 tons, or 3\ years’
work, remains. At balance date more
or less liquids exceeded the outside debt
by £22,190.
After providing £9765 for amortisation,
Gold Dumps Pty. for the same period
cleared £9803 and paid 10 p.c. The co.
is re-treating the old Carisbrook, Jubilee
and Llanberris dumps (Vic.). All told,
175,925 tons was handled for 5918 fine
ounces gold, worth £53,930. The co. is
also manager of Maryborough Gold,
N.L., in which it holds 30,000 6 p.c.
cumulative participating prefs. of 10s.
each paid to 7s. At Carisbrook 367,000
tons remains to be treated, or 2\ years’
work, 98,600 (2f years) Jubilee, 341,000
(2j years) Llanberris, and 439,000
years) Maryborough.
Broken Hill is to sell 13,875 tons of
lead a month to Britain at £lB 16s. 7d.
Aust. a ton, f.o.b. Port Pirie. Elec-
trolytic Zinc will sell 3000 tons of
spelter a month at £lB 15s. Aust. a ton,
f.o.b. Risdon. Prices are subject to
adjustment each half-year in accordance
with production costs. Contract is for
the duration and three months after,
with a British Government option to
terminate after buying 166,000 tons of
lead and 36,000 tons of spelter. Electro-
lytic, Associated Smelters and Mt. Lyell
have agreed to supply refined zinc, lead
and electrolytic copper respectively to
the Commonwealth Government at re-
duced rates.
* * * *
The Blue Peter, on the Charters Towers
field (B. 27/9/’39), has put up a rather
outstanding performance, the last 127
tons treated yielding 2540 z. fine gold. In
No. 2 hole the diamond drill located the
lode channel around the 300 ft. mark. It
still leaves the proving of the ore-shoot
below the 160 ft. level a matter to be
decided. Stoping of high-grade ore is
being carried above 160 ft., and at
present the show is turning out between
60 and 90 tons a month. The Gov-
ernment is assisting in testing the deeper
ground with the drill.
* * * *
Prospectors are opening up the wol-
fram leaders on Mt. Perseverance (N.Q.),
which is a neighbor of Mt. Carbine, and
runs to a similar type of deposit. Fair
results are being obtained. One show
has just produced 10 bags of concen-
trates, which means a good rise to the
owners at present prices. Speaking gener-
ally, prospects are encouraging.
* * * *
A new mill and cyanide plant have
been installed on the Kingston gold-
mine (S.Q.), and the last reported
monthly throughput of 187 tons yielded
51oz. bullion. As most of this was
cyanide bullion, and no values were
given, the average of sdwt. will probably
be nearer 3dwt. standard gold. Kingston
has been worked for many years as a
low-grade opencut proposition.
* * * *
The old Stanhills tinfield, neighbor to
Croydon up in Queensland’s Guff coun-
try, was looked over recently by parties
of the North Australian Geophysical
Survey. It has come into production
again with a parcel of 48 tons for just
under three tons of tin concentrates. The
Just-in-Time lode is reported to be 4ft.
wide to a depth of 70ft., and bulks 5 p.c.
to 6 p.c
* * *
British Board of Trade’s report on the
affairs of Commonwealth Mining and
Finance is expected shortly. Chairman
Campion recently told shareholders that
the board was confident no exception
could be taken by the Government inves-
tigator to the activities of the co. Claude
de Bernales declared he would be very
disappointed if a dividend was not paid
in the near future.
* * * *
“On the Spot”: K. R. Miles (B.
18/10/’39) is knee-deep in lore about the
Gladiator, but he is not up to date. The
property has been rejuvenated during the
last three months. At June 30 it seemed
to be on its last legs. Then Leo Gibbons
took a hand, and losses have since been
succeeded by profits. Also, vigorous
developments below the 500 ft. level ex-
posed some rich ore. Having revived the
Gladiator, Gibbons, who recently joined
the De Bernales group as chief mining
engineer, has now turned his attention to
the Emu and Comet.
* * * *
For the September quarter Wiluna
(W.A.) extracted 22,650 fine ounces gold
from 150,612 tons ore. Based on an
approximate average price of 1925. Bd. a
fine ounce, and deducting Commonwealth
excise duty, the output was worth
£A218,230. Including development and
exploration, costs totalled £127,889. The
working surplus was £A90,331. Assay
values varied considerably ; in some parts
of the mine they averaged about 4dwt.,
in others they were unpayable. The best
was one of B.ldwt. over 21ft. exposed by
a crosscut at the 600 ft. level of the Happy
Jack lease in the north of the co.’s large
holding.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant (W.A.) announces
(1) that the managing director estimates
that approximately 6000 tons has been
blocked in the co.’s Wiluna East gold-
mine, (2) that an additional 20,000 tons
has been partly developed and (3) that
a grinding-pan is to be added to the
treatment plant to ensure better extrac-
tion and to increase the monthly through-
put from 450 tons to 700 tons. Accounts
for year to July 31 show a balance of
£9783 on the wrong side. Shareholders
have not been called together for 2\
years, “because there has been no justi-
fication for doing so, and because the
expense entailed didn’t seem justified.”
There is talk about payment of a first
dividend being in sight.
* * * *
Shareholders of Perth-controlled Han-
nan’s Hill Amalgamated have endorsed
the directors’ proposal to appeal against
the High Court’s majority decision in
favor of Barbican Corporation. Han-
nan’s Hill claimed that Barbican was in
wrongful possession of the Hannan’s
Reward-Mt. Charlotte gold blocks, Kal-
goorlie. The warden decided against
the claim, and the Westralian Supreme
Court and the High Court upheld his
decision.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
•M*
nm
Bill
ill
hi
iimn
111
r %
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
"METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“Snake seen on golf course.”
Slithered out of the nineteenth hole?
•h •h
“People who have cold baths in winter
never have colds,” says a doctor.
Perhaps, but they have cold baths.
•h -h 'l*
“A wise woman employs fairy stories to
quieten her children.” —Psychology lecturer.
A wise husband employs them to
quieten her.
•h 4* •£■
No politician is a gentleman when it
comes to giving up his seat to a lady.
•b
“Long engagements take the gilt off the
gingerbread of romance.” — Women’s paper.
And too often show up the gilt in the
engagement ring.
•!* *l* *h
“Not only were his father and grandfather
bootmakers, but his three sons were also in
the trade with him.”— “Sun.”
All hands to the pumps.
•b <b b 4*
Not For Sale.
He had called the bottle-oh into the
squalid backyard to dispose of the dead.
One by one he watched the beer quarts
and plonk flagons placed in the sack,
counting them with bleary caution.
Standing slightly apart, like a haughty
aristocrat trying to avoid the contaminat-
ing touch of the vulgar rabble, was a
bottle whose ornate label bore testimony
to the class of whisky it had contained.
As the bottle-oh reached for it the other
snatched it up.
“Not thish one! ”he said. “We’re goin’
ter keep that for a flamin’ ornament.’!.
T. W. N.
“A mosquito is probably the most misunder-
stood insect on earth.” — “Sunday Sun.”
It only has to make one stinging
remark and we take pleasure in squash-
ing it.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Witness in Sydney court, asked to describe
the words used by a woman charged with using
indecent language, said they were ‘gems.’ ”
Rich and rare were the gems she swore
as the old song goes.
4 1 4* 4* 4 1
“The A.B.C. has quite an imposing library
of recorded sounds and everyday remarks.”
—Wireless magazine.
Including, we hope, those made b}
bored listeners as they snap the thing off.
“ Gerald, Wake up! I think there's a man under the bed.”
“He could have easily escaped from the gaol
if he had not acted in such feverish haste.”
—Crime story.
“Chess champions married.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
Let’s hope that move was well thought
out.
4* 4 1 4* 4*
“Are picture hats increasing in popularity?”
— Women’s paper.
Yes, except with the people who sit
behind them.
Sauce.
My Mary is a modern lamb,
And, though / hate to stint,
The way she makes my money fly
She must think I’m the mint.
Paton.
4* +
“At this meeting Hitler appeared white-
faced.” — “S. M. Herald.’’
He’s beyond the pale now, anyway.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“During his air tours in Europe, Lindbergh
was frequently the flattered guest of the Fiihrer
and of the Field-Marshal.
“The herbal mixture ‘Muti,’ put into the
bath water, will restore a straying husband’s
love for his wife, and he will never chase
other girls again.”— Sydney “Sun.”
So saying, he swallowed a nutmeg and
gave himself up.
•4* 4* 4* 4*
“Do you value your civil liberties?”
—Sydney weekly.
Married men get no liberty whether
they’re civil or not.
4* 4* 4*
“The evening of October 16 will be lucky
for surveyors.”— Astrological forecast.
And perhaps it was if they kept on the
level.
4* 4 1 4* 4 1
“The editor’s wife was a mountain of a
woman.” — Extract from short story.
Trust him to go in for the large type.
4* 4* 4* 4*
A woman depends on intuition to tell
her when she’s wrong. A man just leaves
it to his wife.
“How can we solve the problem caused by
the machine that does the work of 10 men?”
— Lecturer.
We could replace it with ten civil ser-
vants that do the work of one man.
The Drawback.
“Having one’s hair cut will often cure a
headache.” —Medical note.
There’s something in the sound of
scissors snipping,
The feel of them demolishing your
locks,
The comb that parts your fibre, and the
clipping
That’s guaranteed to give a headache
socks.
The ointment round the fly, though, is
the wagging
Tongue of the barber as he trims your
mane.
It’s his incessant, vapid, maddening
magging
That brings the blasted headache back
again !
BO.
Consistency.
“One cannibal chief in the JLoyalty Islands
even ate his wife.” — “World’s News.”
Fed up with all her flagging ways,, he
shoved her in the pot.
A thirteen-stoner, she, he thought,
would make a fair repast.
She proved too rich. A nasty gastric
turn was what he got,
Which showed she disagreed with him
right to the very last.
ZAKE.
No wonder that his haste was hot —
A devotee of crime,
When breaking out, would clearly not
Desire to take his time !
T. W. N.
The Purge.
(A Russian Propaganda Play.)
Dramatis Persons.
Ivan Orfelkoff ... A Collectivist Farmer
Scratchuss Iymitchi His Suicide-
complexed Grandfather
Nickoff Karntya .. A Trotskyist Wrecker
[Readers will doubtless be intrigued by the
mysterious disappearance of two characters
from the play. This is not uncommon in
Soviet propaganda plays—even the characters
themselves can be purged half-way through
an act or scene. It has a salutary effect on
the remaining members of the dramatis per-
sonae.]
Act 11.
Scene 2. —Kitchen of Ivan’s Farm.
(Nickoff and Ivan are discovered seated.
Nickoff has one boot off and is pruning
his bunion with a scythe. Ivan is busy
husking mangelwurzels.)
Ivan: Well, comrade, the ground is all
prepared, but I don’t know yet whether
the crop I’ve to put in is to be wheat
or watermelons. I haven’t got the seed
yet from the collectivist seed depot,
though I had a letter from the Com-
missar’s department saying it left
Murmansk four months ago.
Nickoff: That means it’s coming by rail.
It ought to be here any month now.
Solo: Ivan.
Timetables have the bourgeois touch
And, anyway, they’re double-Dutch
To us. Our railway heads all work by
guess. A
Train may leave Omsk or Tobolskob
And six months later it will lob
In either Vladivostok or Odessa.
Ivan: Anyway, I’ve got my fertiliser all
dug in.
Nickoff: Yes, you’re set all right, com-
rade. (. Aside ) And so will your fertiliser
be when the rain gets to the cement I
mixed through it. {Aloud) But collec-
tivist farming isn’t all vodka and
skittles.
Duet: Nickoff and Ivan.
Ivan :
You first get a block of collectivised land ;
Its layout by blacksmiths or cooks may
be planned.
The Commissar sells you some seed and
a plough
And, if you’re in luck, a collectivist cow.
Nickoff:
Should it come up you reap the collec-
tivised crop.
If it doesn’t, a bullet you’re likely to cop.
You mustn’t use Daisy’s collectivised
juice —•
If you do, then your neck will be soon
in a noose.
Both :
You get no collectivised profits or screw
From any collectivised crops that you
grew;
And if of your harvest you snavel one
peck,
You’ll gather some lead in the back of
your neck !
(Scratchuss, who has been listening
behind a door, comes in and, seeing
Nickoff wielding the scythe, throws him-
self in the path of the blade. Nickoff
kicks him on the chin, and he sprawls out
of the way.)
Nickoff: Get out, you old goatski, and
see who is outside. I hear someone
approaching.
(Exit Scratchuss, muttering.)
Ivan: I wonder who it can be at this
hour.
(Enter Scratchuss, “Liquidators” and
Bodyburners.)
Chief Liquidator : Is this the collectivist
farm of Ivan Orfelkoff? Are you him?
Nickoff: Are you he? you mean.
C.L.: Silence, dog! (To Ivan) Are you?
Ivan: Yes, he’s him. I mean, I’m who.
C.L.: Well, we’ve come to conduct an
examination. This other comrade’s in
it, too.
Chorus.
Joe Stalin, Russia’s great dictator,
Of bourgeois ways the champion hater
(Oh, what a pal! Oh, what a pal!),
Has now decreed another purge
From which few comrades will emerge.
The victims will be those who fail
To quote (yes, well ye two may quail!)
The first ten lines (perhaps some more) oj
That Communistic gem Chap. IV of
“Das Kapital,” “Das Kapital.”
Ivan and Nickoff (together): But
neither of us can read!
C.L. (to Liquidators): Well, you know
your work, comrades.
(Exeunt Nickoff and Ivan between
armed chorus.)
Scratchuss (in quavering voice): Ha!
ha! They didn’t know I was a secret
O.G.P.U. agent, and that I’m exempt
from the purge!
(A volley is heard backstage, followed by
a double thud. Curtain falls as Scratchuss
pounces on a large tin of cyanide and
proceeds joyfully to scoff it.)
[ln the actual production of this play in
the “conquered” areas of Poland an unfor-
tunate contretemps occurred. On resuming
after the interval following the first act the
leading actor, Dmitri Pryzoxtlzsk, full of vodka,
absentmindedly burst into the lines of “The
Brute Beast of the Reich,” in which he had
been starring in Moscow continuously for six
years. He got only as far as “And if these
square-headed swine ever poke their pig-snouts
into the fair garden of our Ukraine we’ll chop
them off with the sickle aijd flatten their heads
with the hammer” when a horrified Com-
missar in the audience held up a clenched
fist. In t\ro minutes the unhappy Dmitri was
purged.]
S.W. K.


TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL..
Follow the hundreds who have
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of, the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.PXX, SYDNEy
TELEPHONE: B 5294
DIGEST OF WAR LEGISLATION
A DIGEST in clear and concise language of all emergency and
legislative measures, including Statutes, Rules* Regulations,
Proclamations, Orders., Notices, Bills, and incorporating amendments
with original measures—issued frequently. Quick and sure reference
through cumulative index.
ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTION: 31/6 (post free)
LOOSE-LEAF BINDER FREE postage extra
From the Publishers,
BUTTER WORTH & COMPANY (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
8 O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; and at Melbourne.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN. General Manager.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. V. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up .. .. •• £1,250,000
Reserve Fund,.. .. ... ■. 1,000,000
(Used, partly in business and partly
in Government - and approved
securities.) i ’ ;
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
, Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E. 0.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Budinrdd,Rollery,Ete.
“On the Cheap”— at £60,000,000!
Some of our State Premiers are de-
manding more loans for their “works
programmes.” Mr. Forgan Smith, for
his part, is disappointed because Mr.
Menzies, according to the authority on
sugar bananas, is “running this war on
the cheap.”
Mr. Menzies was stung into a reply.
Had he not made his most emphatic
utterances on this question? Had he not
drummed into taxpayers’ ears until
their heads ached that the Federal
Government intended to spend four
times as much during the first year of
this war as was spent during 1914-15?
Mr. Menzies repeated that it was intended
to spend £60,000,000 this year, com-
pared with £15,000,000 in 1914-15. And,
seemingly pleased with his ability thus
to spend, Mr. Menzies wound up with,
“If this is what Mr. Forgan Smith calls
running a war ‘on the cheap,’ I wonder
what his idea of full-blooded expendi-
ture is? Perhaps I will find out at the
meeting of the Loan Council.”
The Loan Council has already
been in session and has approved a
borrowing programme of £41,000,000.
Also, “the Government has been ex-
ploring possible new fields of taxation.
Tentative decisions have already been
made, but they are being kept secret.”
It also appears that*the Defence Depart-
ment has completely upset the equanimity
of the township of Rutherford (N.S.W.)
by resuming improved properties, cot-
tages and shops, though there must be
thousands of acres of suitable un-
improved land kicking round that
already belongs to the Crown or which
could be resumed at a fraction of the
cost of the Rutherford turnout.
So hoots, Mr. Forgan Smith! If
you’re still not satisfied, just run your
eye over some of the salaried appoint-
ments to the hardy growth of new boards
and commissions that have sprung up to
save woolgrowers, wheat-farmers, etc.,
from —they knOw not what.
It would be entirely wrong to judge
the rate of expenditure by the results
being shown. Infinitely more will be
spent than will ever be represented by
a gun or anything that can be shot out
of it. There will be plenty of waste,-
especially when State Premiers are hang-
ing round with “defence” ideas that are
calculated to relieve State “financial
stringency” more than to increase .the
fighting strength or equipment Of the
A.I.F. or the R.A.N. or the R.A.A.F.
Only politicians would really feel hurt
if this war was to be run “on the cheap.”
The Australian people have never had
any service “cheap” from their Govern-
ments. • In many things, such as trans-
port, they pay twice over —in fares,
freights, taxes and motor-transport re-
strictions.
In Britain, right from the outset, the
necessity for keeping expenditure down
was acknowledged. There will be any
amount of forced outlay if this war goes
on, and there will be no lack of oppor-
tunities for employment if men are .sent
overseas. Inflation will be the thing to
guard against during the war, and
deflation after it. So the less money
that is spent now in the process of obtain-
ing the aimed-at efficiency for the defence
forces the better it will be for everyone
afterwards.
From the outbreak of war onwards
Britain has had maximum prices for
raw materials in force, minimum prices
for public securities (thus checking a
rise in the cost of borrowing), and
efforts have been made to restrain rises
in the cost of living. And unless Mr.
Forgan Smith has a monetary system
that is as miraculous as the death-ray
that has been visualised by some for
wiping out aeroplane attacks, he had
better lend his ear to what is being done
in Britain, because it is only by keeping
costs, prices and employment in a stable
and reproductive state that the future
can* be looked to with any confidence.
It is a tragedy of Australian politics
that the average .State Premier thinks
in terms of votes and jobs mainly. The
problem of unemployment is certainly
the greatest one in times of peace, but
the mere bringing of money, raised by
loans or taxes, into contact With unem-
ployed will not solve it. Millions of
pounds have been absolutely squandered
in Australia during recent years in the
name of “unemployed relief.” The ex-
penditure of money unwisely does only
a temporary job ; laid out wisely, some-
thing reproducing employment is almost
certain to follow.
But it is rare to see a politician exer-
cising what he pleases to call his mind
along these lines. The organisation of
finance, trade and industry these days
is so complicated that it is much easier
to think in terms of taxing, borrowing
and spending than it is to worry about
the actions and reactions of those things
on actual trade and industry, which are
really the backbone of our existence.
Perhaps a large proportion of the people,
too, have been encouraged to think lazily
in terms of what is going to be spent
on them rather than what permanent
benefits they are going to get; but that
is because politicians have led their
thoughts that way.
It has been refreshing to hear Mr.
Spender, Assistant Federal Treasurer, on
the subject of war finance. He has in-
dicated that borrowing and inflation
should be the least-resorted-to founts
of finance, and that taxation should
provide most of the sinews of war. It
was an illusion, he said, to think that
the- burden could be passed on to pos-
terity. By seeking the easy way out
the burden would be passed on to the
present generation in greatly increased
measure.
That largely expresses the truth of
the matter. If spend we must —and
undoubtedly we must —then let us get
full value from our spending, and let
us pay as soon as we can. The more
we can afford to pay by means of
taxation now, the harder we shall look
at the results obtained for us, and the
less likelihood there is of waste eating
away our stamina. We shall have waste
enough from actual warfare without
creating an economic war inside our
own system.
Publication of Electrolytic Zinc’s
accounts last week was followed by a
firmer market for the ord. shares. Then
Colin Fraser announced that the directors
had no thought, of making a bonus issue,
and the market for a time was uncertain.
Output of metal was about the same as for
the two preceding years, but because of
lower prices net earnings dropped from
£536,600 in 1937 to £408,500 during the
term to June 30 last. The co.’s contracts
with the Barrier mines help to some
extent, and last term only £lOO,OOO was
allowed for amortisation, depreciation,
etc. (down £45,000). More than half the
cost of all fixed and intangible assets has
now been provided for. Net earnings
for 1938-39, as finally arrived at, covered
the all-round 15 p.c. div. with about
£16,000 to spare. Unless production
costs rise steeply 1939-40 should be more
profitable. In 1938-39 spelter averaged
£l3 18s. sterling. Since war broke out
it has been fixed at an average price of
£l5 ex ship—the buyer having to pay
duty. Now E.Z. has entered into a con-
tract to sell 3000 tons of spelter per month
to Britain at £lB 15s. Aust. a ton, f.o.b.
Risdon. The co.’s output last year aver-
aged nearly 6000 tons a month.
* * * *
Mr. Mair, Premier of N. S. Wales,
last week stated that he did not “favor
rigid adherence to orthodox methods of
finance in times like the present.” But
would Mr. Mair, who was formerly a
member of Mr. Stevens’s Government,
be able to recognise an “orthodox”
method of finance if he saw it?
* * * *
Associated Pulp and Paper, the mills
of which are at Burnie (Tas.), reports
that “with the exception of resins and
dyes, also a relatively small quantity of
imported sulphite pulp for blending in
a certain type of paper, the whole of
our raw material is supplied from Aus-
tralian sources.” Obviously manufac-
turing is becoming more successful with
experience, and eucalyptus pulp is
making the paper all right, only
costs seem to be higher than origi-
nally budgeted for. In its first manu-
facturing period the co. showed a trading
loss of £40,885, and a duty was applied
for. After a certain amount of mind-
changing on the part of the Federal Gov-
ernment a duty was granted, and since
war broke out the co. looks as though
it ought to make money. Overseas paper
prices have risen very sharply, partly as
a result of the difficulty of getting pulp
from Scandinavia. If Associated is able,
while making profits, to show its appre-
ciation of Protection to the extent of
letting Australians have paper at a price
near world parity so long as these ex-
traordinary conditions continue, it will
have more than a theoretical right to its
tariff when peace and normal shipping
services (with lower world prices) prevail
once more.
* * * *
There was continued activity in shares
of the A.P.M. holding cos. last week.
The proposal to eliminate the holding
cos. and give shareholders in Australasian
Paper and Cumberland a direct interest
in A.P.M. should take concrete shape
within a month, taxation difficulties
having been, almost overcome. Other
developments are being looked on
hopefully by the sharemarket. Some
supplies are now coming forward
from the eucalyptus pulp mill in
Gippsland, and overseas competition
has been restricted by the outbreak of
war. A.P.M. makes wrapping paper and
cardboard, and for most of its products
it has a steady, all-weather demand.
Some of its' board is used in the motor
trade, but turnover generally should
stand up well to adverse conditions. Aus-
tralasian Paper ords. at 335. 6d. return
slightly under 5. p.c. on an 8 p.c. div.
basis ;• Cumberland ords. at 315., ex div.,
return 5,2 p.c. •
* * * *
Holeproof Hosiery, Melbourne, which
announced that its year is progressing
favorably (the term closes on Dec. 31),
was well stocked with raw materials
bought at reasonable prices last balance
day. So far it is not feeling the pinch
of higher silk and rayon costs. The co.
is the largest manufacturer of men’s
socks (mostly woollen) in the Common-
wealth, and this branch of its activity
will represent a handy source of profit
should margins in the women’s hosiery
section contract. The 10 p.c. div. was
well covered by 1938 earnings. At
21s. 6d. last week the shares returned
9.3 p.c.
* * * *
A sharp rise of Is. 6d. carried Brad-
ford Cotton shares up to 455. last week.
This represents the highest quotation
for more than a year. A new issue of
capital is proposed, and unless the A.I.F.
is prepared to go tentless —officialdom
says it can’t buy enough canvas and
duck —the Treasury had better O.K. the
proposal. The co. is one of Australia’s
few cotton-spinning and -weaving con-
cerns —only about 5 p.c. of our cotton
piecegoods requirements is turned out
in this country—and it has been highly
enterprising as well as successful.
Finances have been given careful
attention right from the beginning, and
the management is Bradford-trained.
Before it became a public concern Brad-
ford Cotton had a good div. record, and
since then ord. shareholders have done
well. Ord. divs. have averaged \2\ p.c.,
and in Feb.* 1938, 53,750 £1 ords. were
put out at par following the issue of
£21,500 of bonus scrip; in April this
year £20,000 of pref. money was offered.
Recently the co. formed a subsidiary,
C. and D. Mills, to turn out canvas and
ducks two items which Australia is
very short of at the present time,
especially for military purposes. It has
acquired the Australian rights to the
sanforising process for pre-shrinking
cotton goods, and plant has been in-
stalled in Sydney, a subsidiary co.
handling this section of the business.
Control of Austral Silk and Cotton
Mills, Melbourne, has been acquired
(for 93,167 6 p.c. prefs. and 43,000
ords.), a successful deal from Bradford’s
point of view, though Austral Silk had
been doing little good on its. own.
The spinning section of its factory
was what Bradford most urgently re-
quired, there being a particular shortage
of spindles in Australia in relation to
weaving and knitting plant. Though,
following ..acquisition of the Victorian
show, Bradford’s capital lifted to
£356,909, it is obvious that there
is no overcapitalisation in Bradford
Cotton itself, and those in the industry
have only scratched the market for
cotton goods in Australia. There is
much more profit in woven denims,
dungarees, duck, etc., in which the co.
specialises, than there is in knitted cotton
products. '
* * * *
Butterworth and Co. (Aust.), Ltd., has
had several years of experience in Aus-
tralian law and commercial publishing,
and it is now early in the field with a
Digest of War Legislation in Australia,
a service that comes out promptly in
monthly parts and deals with all important
developments of a legal nature that have
their genesis in Australia’s war activity.
The service goes rather beyond a simple
condensation of the National Security
Act and its many subsidiary enactments ;
regulations announced in “Common-
wealth Gazette,” the constitution of the
various boards which threaten to outvie
the A.I.F. in strength, and important
alterations to prices, freight rates, etc.,
made on the initiative of private enter-
price all find a place in the first month’s
service. Official decisions in regard to
prices are also fully recorded. An ample
index is carried forward from month to
month, and a binder for the monthly
parts is included for the annual sub-
scription of 31s. 6d. The service is
just the thing required to keep business-
men in touch with the complexities of
war-time commerce.


Meetings.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Notice of Meeting.
The Fifty-second Ordinary General Meeting
of Members will be held at the Company’s
Offices, 23 and 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
on Tuesday, 7th November, 1939, at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS:
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet to 30th September, 1939.
To elect Two Directors in place of Mr.
Frank Nelson Yarwood and Mr. Owen Esmond
Friend, who retire under Clause 81 of the
Articles of Association and who offer them-
selves for re-election.
To elect One Director in place of Mr.
Francis William Hixson (appointed to fill the
vacancy caused by the death of Mr. William
George Hull), who offers himself for re-election
(in terms of Clause 81).
To elect Auditors in place of Messrs. Robert
W. Nelson and Co., Chartered Accountants
(Aust.), who retire under Clause 124 of the
Articles of Association and who are eligible
for re-election, and to fix the amount of their
remuneration.
To consider any other business of which
due notice shall have been given in accord-
ance with the Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board,
E. V. T. WHITTLE, Manager.
Permanent Trustee Building,
23 and 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
25th October, 1939.
" QUALCAST "
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MOTOR
MOWER
saf
33
Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
Hundreds
have now
been sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qua!cast" Lawnmowers
MODEL. “II”: 10in.12in.14in.16in.
Bronze Bearing .. 38/- 41/- 44/-
Ball Bearing 44/- 47/- 50/- 53/-
Super “7” Ball B. 56/- 60/- 64/-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY
ALL READING HARDWARE STORES
ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
m
i Vd
m
ML
Head Ollice
Sydney, N.S.W.
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . .£4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL. . .. 4,739,012 10 0
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
General Manager: C. Darvall,
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd.,
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices Throughout' New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
mm
m
H
■I
LSMI
m
mm
PI
m
a
&
' -
\
Eh
11
1
I
\\
■■■
■S.: v '
m
m ;
m
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from Pure
Australian Wool.
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer cool through-
@ out the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more “twist” in its
Q fine worsted yarn than other cloths, will not
crease or crush.
SOLTINE
RE6D.
CLOTH
BORN
SHORN
WOVEN AND WORN IN AUSTRALIA.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Last week the Australian sharemarket
was mostly firm. And this war has
undoubtedly shown the truth of the ad-
vice offered in these pages for years —•
that shares should be bought on merit,
not on market behavior. Bradford
Cotton, Australasian Paper, Cumberland
Paper, 8.H.P., A.C.1., Yarra Falls, Davies
Coop, North Coast Steam, Adelaide
Steam, Melbourne Steam, Drug Houses
and Henry Jones are now at or near
their best prices for a couple of years
at least, though the general level of the
market is still substantially below the
highest levels of 1938. Stocks frequently
mentioned here but which are now at
low levels are Castlemaine Perkins and
Gordon and Gotch. The former at
21s. 6d. looks one of the best buys in
the present market, in spite of the
qyietness in breweries, and Gordon and
Gotch is recovering. Arthur Cocks ords.
are also poorly supported, but when
some of the initial uncertainties of the
war are cleared away this concern should
do well enough. It paid good divs. in
the Great War.
B.H.P. shares, cum rights to the bonus
issue announced as to size but not as
to time, rose to just under 70s. in a
market that saw Henry Jones lift to
545. and Huddart Parker to 58s. 6d.
G. J. Coles ords. kept very quiet at
695. 6d., while Woolworths shares, in
spite of rumors of another bonus issue,
were steady but not buoyant at under
235. Nearly all retail stocks are very
slow, and where a concern is in any
way dependent on overseas supplies
there is often weakness. British Tobacco
ords. at 475. 6d. are not particularly
bright in comparison with most other
manufacturing stocks, newspaper shares
have been decidedly weak, and motor-
importing concerns have slumped.
Breweries and banks are very stale.
Concerns dependent on the construction
trades, such as cement cos., Wunderlich,
Australian Gypsum, General Industries,
furniture cos., etc., are mostly depressed ;
one exception is Johns and Way good,
of Melbourne, which is making a bonus
issue. Tyre cos. are inactive. The in-
dustrial sharemarket in some respects
seems to be at odds with itself, and high
and low prices may tend to come closer
to each other before long, having due
regard to the nature of each type of
business.
* * * *
In August there were sales of Davies,
Coop ords. at 235., and subsequently
market quotes drifted below that figure.
Publication of accounts in mid-September
created no life in the market, though the
net profit of £63,198 was up £5174 on the
previous showing—the larger amount of
shareholders’ funds at work reduced the
ratio of profit to ord. capital from 15.8
p.c. to 14.8 p.c. The div. was kept at
1\ p.c., the expansion of the business
during the year calling for every penny
of the undistributed earnings, £147,125
of new capital (total now £550,000), and
£90,000 of outside assistance. On fac-
tory buildings and plant £208,900 was
laid out during the year, and £71,000
was added to stocks. The co. also sub-
scribed recently for 100,000 £1 ords. in
an Adelaide subsidiary. The last week or
two sudden interest in the concern, which
spins and weaves cotton goods of the
denim, dungaree and cotton-tweed order,
carried prices for the ord. shares up to
295. A merger with Stirling Henry,
a Sydney cotton mill, was proposed some
time back, but negotiations have been in
abeyance.
The finances of Davies, Coop and the
general shortage of cotton manufactures
in Australia at the moment have war-
ranted expectations of a new cash issue.
The co.’s capital has lately expanded by
the following issues:
June, 1935: 69,004 £1 6 p.c. prefs. at par.
Sept., 1938 : 70,000 £1 bonus ords.
Oct., 1938: 50,000 £1 6 p.c. prefs. at par.
Net earnings have responded thus:
Net Ord. | Net Ord.
Profit. Div. | Profit. Div.
1935 .. £9,931 6 p.c. I 1938 .. £58,024 7± p.c.
1936 .. 21,443 5 „ | 1939 .. 63,198 7± „
1937 .. 35,898 6 „ |
Introduction of deferred cotton duties
two or three years ago has been a great
help to cos. in the business. Now the war
and disturbance to imports should lay a
broader foundation on which to build
the industry. Davies, Coop contem-
plates establishing branches in Sydney
and Brisbane, and the Adelaide subsidiary
has already been floated, the public sub-
scribing £50,000.


Franco Clemency.
If Australian newspapers which carried on
a violent anti-Franco campaign all through
Spain’s civil war had this London “Times” item
cabled, they kept its details very dark:—
General Franco, on the occasion of the
Festival of St. Francis, gratrted a wide measure
of clemency to both war and civilian prisoners
who have been judged in Spain or who are
awaiting trial, a number estimated at about
250,000.
Those condemned to less than 10 years
and one day are pardoned; and longer sen-
tences will be subject to revision. Clemency is
promised with regard to numerous death penal-
ties, and those who are not guilty of voluntary
homicide will be liberated under supervision.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
DISCUSSION OF WAR AIMS.
[The discussion of war aims here presented, chiefly
from letters to the “Times” and Manchester “Guardian,”
includes views that could nqt be more opposite to each
other. They are here given, without endorsement,
purely as the views of a variety of minds on a most
important topic.]
This war will be won, sooner or later, by the
surrender of the common people of Germany to the
dictates of reason, and in stating our war aims it is
vital to put forward only such objects as are likely
to appeal to the better German mind.
We have no other aim than to destroy Hitlerism,
and no elaboration of that simple purpose should be
permitted. We must refrain, for instance, from talk-
ing of dictators, for the German knows that we tried
to make a bargain with the worst of dictators and
that our Polish allies were living under a form of
dictatorship themselves. Equally useless is it to empha-
sise the virtues of democratic government, for the
Germans are not desirous of adopting our system.
Freedom cannot be delivered to order or called up
at will, least of all can it be imported from abroad.
Liberty is a very slow growth; ours was planted at
Runnymede in 1215, and 724 years have proved insuffi-
cient to give the flower full “sweetness and perfume.”
Liberty is, in fact, much more a matter of breed and
experience than of systems.
Similarly the better German mind is quite unlikely
to surrender to the idea of any sort of League of
Nations. The Germans know that, apart from a few
bad loans, Hitler is the only tangible product of 15
years of international wirepulling at Geneva. To win
this war, and to make another war less likely, we
need to say quite simply to the German people: Give
us a Government which accepts the principle of nego-
tiation as a substitute for force and which is com-
posed of people whose bond is worth having.— Ernest
J. P. Benn; “Times” letter.
*****
A nation’s form of government is its own con-
cern With what consistency can we make a stand
for “liberty” and deny to any people the most elemen-
tary of rights—the right to decide under what form
of government it prefers to live?
I detest the present regime in Germany, and
sincerely hope the German people will put an end to
it. But I shrink from denouncing as incompatible
with civilisation the principle of dictatorship or refus-
ing to make peace, or maintain friendship, with any
people who prefer that form of government. After
all we ourselves accepted, temporarily, the military
dictatorship of Cromwell. And dictators are not all
of one type: Kemal Atatiirk and Oliver Cromwell
were examples of one type; their rule was educative:
Herr Hitler belongs to another type.— J. A. R.
Marriott; “Times” letter.
# # # ♦ *
To talk of ridding the world of Hitlerism and
banishing Nazism from the earth may be wise: cer-
tainly the same sort of talk about Kaiserism and Prus-
sianism and Junker ism was unwise, and, along with
the use of victory to assert Germany’s moral respon-
sibility for the war and moral unfitness for empire,
this sort of talk was largely responsible for producing
Hitlerism. We are fighting to make the German
Government relinquish and reverse aggression. We
need not seek any higher or harder task ; we may
hope for help in our task from an increasing convic-
tion among Germans that their Government ought to
be changed, but we should not assume that we
strengthen that hope by telling them that a change of
their Government is one of our war aims.— Kenneth
Pickthorn, M.P.; “Times” letter.
*****
More than one participant in this discussion im-
ply that our quarrel is as much with the German
people as their Government —which, if true, would
hardly dispose the German people to lay down their
arms. Another would have us proclaim that a totali-
tarian State, an autocracy, “can have no place in a
civilised world,” proclaim that, once more, we fight
to make the world safe for democracy—an embarrass-
ing proclamation when the State for whose defence
we entered the war is Poland, when our allies, or
potential allies, include Turkey, Greece and Rumania,
and when a neutral, whose friendship may be im-
portant, is Italy.
The Government is right in attaching the import-
ance it does to widespread knowledge and understand-
ing of what we fight for (and not merely what we
fight against), because upon such understanding de-
pends the future attitude and policy of those at present
neutral, notably of the United States, and the degree
of resistance of the German people. We believe, in
the words of the King’s message, that we are fighting
for the world’s order and peace, “security of justice
and liberty among nations,” including justice and
liberty for the German nation. If the German nation
and the world as a whole come really to believe this,
then the war will be a short one. But i'f Hitler can
continue to persuade his people that our victory
would be even worse for them than —they have come
to believe —our last victory has been, bringing upon
them another and worse Versailles, then their resist-
ance is likely to be correspondingly long and bitter.
The world is aware that the things we fight against
are very evil. But it is also aware that our victory will
not necessarily end those evils (though they cannot be
ended without our victory), for it is faced by the un-
deniable fact that our previous victory over Ger-
many did not end the similar evils which the last war
was waged to destroy ; did not produce a world order
in which the kind of aggression we are now witness-
ing should become impossible.
We shall best predispose the world to aid our
cause, and the Germans to accept it, by making clear
that we are honestly attempting to discover, in the
light of experience, how our victory may this time
truly be made the instrument of a nucleus international
order in which all nations prepared to accept justice
may find peace.— Norman Angell; “Times” letter.
*****
It is difficult to avoid the conclusion that the
present war will prove as void of good as the last
war unless it ends in a peace very different from that
of Versailles. The best safeguard against such a
repetition is to announce here and now, before the
bombs begin to drop and to let loose a wave of hatred
and a lust for vengeance, the terms upon which we
should be prepared to make peace. The negative terms
are, I suggest, obvious. They are no annexations,
no indemnities, and no reparations, and the restora-
tion of some part at least of the territory torn- from
Germany in the settlement of 1918.
On the positive side the time has come to super-
sede the absolute sovereignty of the nation-State and
to transfer some part of its functions to a Federal
Government. Unless we can succeed in achieving
this result the war will be fought in vain, if only
because by leaving the existing European anarchy un-
controlled with each nation-State as arbiter of its own
interests and judge and jury in its own cause
it will pave the way for a series of future wars,
each more destructive than the last, until our civili-
sation goes the way of its predecessors, through its
failure to adapt its political institutions to meet the
challenge of its new-won technical powers. We should
fight the war in the hope of forming a federal union
when it is over and we should tell the German people
so now.
Meanwhile there are two incidental advantages
of federation as an immediate war aim: (1) It will serve
to emphasise the distinction between the Nazi Gov-
ernment and the German people. We propose to enter
into union with the German people provided that
they take the indispensable step of getting rid of a
Government which embodies the very opposite of all
that union implies. (2) It will offer to the Germans
an alternative to the Communism which so many dread
as the inevitable sequel to the fall of the Nazi regime.
— C. E. M. Joad ; Manchester “Guardian” letter.
*****
It is all very well to say that our quarrel is with
Hitler and Hitlerism, not with the German people, but
the experience of 1914 and 1939 has shown that the
German people, whatever may be their virtues —and
I would be the last to undervalue them—have shown
themselves prone to allow themselves to be dominated
by leaders who have made them impossible neighbors
to other peoples who desire to live their own lives,
and no settlement which merely eliminates a parti-
cular individual (or a particular political creed if poli-
tical creeds are capable of elimination by international
contracts) is going to prevent the rising of another
noxious individual or another equally damnable poli-
tical creed.
The terms of settlement, therefore, ought to be
based on two guiding principles:
(1) Nothing should be done to prevent Germany from
taking her proper place as a member of a peaceful
family of European nations — i.e., there should be no
attempt to levy a crushing war indemnity or fantastic
“reparations,” to hamper her future economic intercourse
with the rest of the world, or, subject only to (2),
to interfere with her liberty to model her own internal
political institutions on her own lines.
(2) Everything should be done to prevent her from
again acquiring lethal weapons and the trained per-
sonnel to make use of them, and she should be
required to submit to a comprehensive system of inter-
national supervision to secure this.
If it be contended that it is unfair that Great
Britain and France should remain armed while Ger-
many is left defenceless, my reply would be that
Great Britain and France have demonstrated their
ability to be good neighbors to countries weaker than
themselves, while Germany has demonstrated her in-
ability. The time may come when the armed forces
of all nations can be placed undex some form of
international control, or, better still, can be abolished
altogether, but that is an ultimate Utopia. Our imme-
diate war aim should be to restore the victims of past
aggression, and to make future aggressions by the
aggressor nation impossible. Beyond this it seems
impossible to go at the moment. — Lord Bradbury;
“Times” letter.
*****
There is no doubt in any quarter, irrespective of
party, that this country had no choice but to accept
the challenge of Hitler’s aggression against one country
in Europe after another. If Hitler is right when he
claims that the whole of the German nation is with
him in his cruelties and treacheries, both within Ger-
many and without, then this war must be fought to
the bitter end.
But I believe that the moment the menace of
aggression and bad faith has been removed, war
against Germany becomes wrong and meaningless.
This generation is conscious that injustices were done
to the German people in the era after the last war.
There must be no repetition of that. To seek anything
but a just and comprehensive peace to lay at rest the
fears and discords in Europe would be a betrayal of
our fallen.
I look forward to the day when a trusted Ger-
many will again come into her own, and believe that
there is such a Germany, which would be loth to
inflict wrongs on other natiqns such as she would not
like to suffer herself. That day may be far off, but
when it comes, then hostilities could, and should,
cease, and all efforts be concentrated on righting the
wrongs in Europe by free negotiations between the
disputing parties, all parties binding themselves to
submit their disputes to an impartial equity tribunal
in case they cannot reach agreement.
We do not grudge Germany Lebensraum, pro-
vided that Lebensraum is not made the grave of other
nations. We should be ready to search for and find
a just colonial settlement, just to all peoples con-
cerned, as soon as there exist effective guarantees that
no race will be exposed to being treated as
treated the Jews on November 9of last year. We s ,
1 trust, live to see the day when such a healing pea
is negotiated between honorable men, and the bit e
memories of the 25 years of unhappy tension between
Germany and the Western democracies are wipe
away in their responsible co-operation for building a
better Europe.— Marquess of Clydesdale, M.r.,
“Times” letter.
* * * * . * „ f
Setting aside for a moment the “moral issues or
this war, these three curious but quite indisputable
propositions come into view:
(1) Official Germany wants to stop it: witness the
whole trend of their official radio propaganda, their
general solicitude, so far, on the subject of air-attack
to France and Britain, their amiability to trawler
captains, and so on.
(2) The ordinary people of this country want to
stop it: witness any man on any bus who sooner or
later remarks: “If you ask me, it’s all nobbut a
bloody nuisance!” or words to that effect.
(3) The only sort of people who are going to get
any advantage whatever out of it are the few very big
financial interests: oil, aircraft, chemicals and what
not.
In the light of these three interesting propositions
we can now return to the “moral issues” earlier set
aside, and reflect how thankful we should be in pos-
sessing statesmen so inflexibly aware of the difference
between good and evil. Perhaps one day they may
even find a moment to tell us what it is ; even Jo out-
line their proposals for “destroying Hitlerism” with-
out first destroying millions of the German people
that they love so well —to say nothing of millions of
our own. — Marchand Bishop ; “New Statesman” letter.
* * * * *
The problem is how to make sure that the
75,000,000 or 80,000,000 of Germans now included
in the Third Reich shall no longer be a perennial
threat to the peace and freedom of other peoples.
No lasting solution is likely to be found by external
force alone. Reasonable and enlightened Germans —
there are still such —might help to find it within a
European, or even a wider, framework which the foes
of Hitlerism (not of Germany) could and should pro-
vide. But it must be a framework so firm and well-
knit that no future Hitler would be able to mislead
the German people into trying to break it.
As the war goes on our own people and the people
of France may need an ideal more positive and sus-
taining than “the destruction of Hitlerism.” To-dav
we and the French are not so much allied as united.
In this union lies our strength, for Great Britain is
now, irrevocably, part of Europe. The “Oslo”
neutrals are striving towards closer co-operation if
not actual union. Is it “Utopian” to see in these
things the beginnings of a movement towards a greater
unity in which unlimited national sovereignties will
be subordinated to common needs? If not, this war
should help to foster the international solidarity in
withstanding war and creating peace that may, one
day, give the German people a chance to enter, as
equals, a union of nations democratically self-governed
and banded together not only against lawless violence
but for the mutual helpfulness which is peace.
British policy should aim at these things. To
frame and to proclaim such a policy would be the
most powerful propaganda. True though it be that
no propaganda can be expected decisively to sway
German minds until the prospect of defeat in war
has made them receptive, knowledge that there might
be a not unhopeful morrow beyond defeat would help
to hasten the overthrow of Hitlerism. — Wickham
Steed; “Times” letter.
* * * * *
The destruction of Hitlerism is too negative an
objective and the defence of democracy too worn and
weary a watchword. We must make it clear to our
people that we are fighting, not merely for our pos-
sessions, but for our lives. We must tell them in all
frankness what would happen to us if Hitler won.
But we must also tell, them that our victory will secure
not merely a new Europe but a new world. This
country, when the time comes, will be prepared to
make great sacrifices for a stable peace. There must,
on both sides, be sacrifices of sovereignty, sacrifices of
power, sacrifices of resources. From this war there
must emerge, in place of existing nation-States, some
form of world federation. Failing that, we shall enter,
within 30 years, upon another cycle of destruction. —
Harold Nicolson, in the “Spectator.”
*****
The Prime Minister has stated our purpose com-
prehensively. “It is to redeem Europe from the per-
petual and recurring fear of German aggression and
to enable the peoples of Europe to preserve their in-
dependence and their liberties.” Some elaboration of


this will be possible and inevitable one day. But there
are reasons plain to any reflecting mind why it would
be premature as yet to demand any detailed formula-
tion of peace terms from the Allied Governments.
Until Allied arms have triumphed, the voice of
Germany is the voice of Hitler. There can be no
intercourse of minds” with Hitler, no parley with
violence and perjury. The more specious his “peace
terms, the more reason should we have to repel
them. The day may come when Germans will be
convinced of the wisdom of granting permanently to
other nations the liberty and security which they claim
lor themselves. But, thanks to Hitler, the way to
reason now lies through force. Civilisation has roused
itself—slowly and reluctantly, but relentlessly— to
shatter Hitlerism for all time. That is the first condi-
tion of peace, and dreams of a world which shall
have returned to law, liberty, and the reorganisation
ot its boundless resources for the well-being of man-
kmd will be dreams only until it is accomplished.—
limes ’ leading article. [Judged by one of last week’s
cables the “Times” would seem to have somewhat
modified these aims. The cable reported the “Times”
as declaring that both Britain and France “will con-
tinue on the course that they have set themselves
until the German Government’s attitude undergoes a
change.”]
German People’s Responsibility.
R f l / 1 th< r foregoing discussion of war aims Lord
nrad bury h . olds the German people responsible as well
as their rulers; so do many other contributors to the
voluminous newspaper letter-writing the war has evoked,
aome ot the views here expressed are typical of what
JNorman Angell and other contributors deprecate.]
Those who hold the view that the German people
are the innocent victims of Hitler’s regime, that we
have no quarrel with them, and that, as Lady Oxford
puts it, “We are very sorry for them,” would seem
to have forgotten that, three times in the short period
of under a century, the German people have chosen
as their rulers men whose flagrant dishonesty and
senseless ambitions have inflicted war, with all its ter-
e^ COnsequences ’ on neighbors. Not only are
the Germans prone to choose and to submit to such
rulers, but the majority of them have accepted unques-
tiomngly their doctrine that might is right.
Inevitably there must be something very wrong
with the mentality of the Germans themselves, and
"If. nest that can be said for them is as stated by the
Times” Paris correspondent when he writes that “the
French think it is surprising that a race of men who
have shown themselves such lions in the field should
have proved themselves such sheep as citizens.”
As a woman, French by birth, but one who has
lived most of her life in Britain, I cannot help feeling
that most women in Great Britain and France would
like to think that this war is being fought, not only for
the high ideals and principles that the King and the
Prime Minister have set before us, but also to make
it quite certain that we shall not be called upon, at
frequently recurring periods, to offer a generation of
our husbands, sons and brothers as a sacrifice upon
the altar of the ambition of yet another German ruler
of the German people.— Marie Bohn; “Times” letter.
* * * * *
Probably a large part of the German people
to-day hates the Hitler regime. And if, after this war,
we are to have a stable condition of things in Europe,
it can only be by our freeing those elements from the
present tyranny and enabling them once more to take
control.
If we censure them to-day for not being brave
enough to come out into active opposition, it is fair
to remember that, with modern scientific means of
destruction, detection and communication, a gang
which has once possessed itself of the central Gov-
ernment and has a sufficient body of police can crush
opposition before it can organise. Perhaps they are
not heroes, the many decent-minded Germans ; but
I do not know which of us would be a hero if it might
mean, as it may to-day in Germany, undergoing actual
torture at the hands of bestial ruffians. — Edwyn Bevan ;
“Times” letter.
* * * * . *
No one would accuse the German nation as a
whole of initiating aggression. But that nation has,
for a generation or more, acquiesced—and voted for
an aggressive Government. During the past 50 years
much has been written and spoken by leading German
teachers, thinkers and statesmen frankly endorsing
Frederick the Great’s saying that “Any war is good
that benefits Prussia,” and the great Fichte’s dictum
“Between States there is neither law nor right save
the right of the strongest.” Even in the days of free
speech in Germany little was openly said against
these doctrines. No permanent peace can be achieved
until belief in these doctrines is eradicated.- —T. H.
Minshall; “Times” letter.
* * * $ $
The cliche that we have no quarrel with the
German people may be good propaganda, but it is
bad logic unless we assume that Germans are a race
of cowards, and this we all frankly admit they are
not. It follows, then, that they have the Government
they want; otherwise, not lacking in courage, they
would not tolerate it. We cannot continue, genera-
tion after generation, to have our best killed in their
tens of thousands because Germans are too weak to
control their Governments.—/. G. Haddow; Man-
chester “Guardian” letter.
The Reds in Poland.
[The “Mighty Soviet” is still getting a soft-pedalling
press in Australia compared with what could be
reported. Compare cable reports of the same news
with this London “Times” report.]
M. Kfirusheff, secretary of the Ukrainian Com-
munist party and a member of the Politbureau, made
known in a speech at Lwow that the Polish territory
occupied by the Soviets will be relentlessly and com-
pletely Bolshevised.
The Red Army sowed revolution as it marched
into Poland. Peasants were encouraged to seize and
divide estates among themselves ; workmen were in-
stalled in the chairs of factory directors, and the
working population were incited to hunt down and ex-
terminate Polish officers, as representatives of the
capitalist order.
M. Khrusheff, addressing the Ukrainians, said
that they must organise their lives under the leader-
ship of the Bolshevist party.
He knew that in Lwow (he continued) they had
so many political parties that they could hardly re-
member their names. He declared war with all pos-
sible means against all opponents of the .Communist
party. “I summon you not to peace but to a merci-
less struggle against all enemies.”
Madame Pilsudski’s Story
(From an “Evening Standard” interview with the wife
of the former Polish President, Marshal Pilsudski, on
her recent arrival as a refugee in London.)
“If it had not been for the Russian stab in the
back, we could have held the Germans. We were the
smaller country, but I am sure we could have held
them. Not one of us thought that Russia would attack
in the rear. The Russian advance took us totally un-
prepared. We had no army in the east. The peace of
the Russians’ arrival in Poland is a myth. It was
they, not the Germans, who drove us out.
“I remember the Bolsheviks in 1920. They
hanged and shot people simply because they were
bourgeoisie. Ownership of property of any size was
the first step to execution. No one who held any
sort of position was safe. Priests they particularly
“Marianne,” Paris.
HERE’S THE WHOLE DIFFERENCE.
hunted down. All members of the intelligentsia were
in danger.
“I would rather fall into the hands of the
Germans than the Russians any day. I have been in
prison in both countries and I know. As the Ger-
mans advanced in 1915 they imprisoned people, many
for reasons which they considered sufficient. They
did at least give them some sort of trial. The Rus-
sians just hunted us down like witches.”
Communists and the War.
{From a “New Statesman” letter by Freda Utley.)
It is a mistake to assume that Communists may
be expected to withdraw their support of the war. The
policy of the Comintern is to urge the working class
to continue fighting in spite of the fact that Berlin
and Moscow are now acting in concert. The Com-
munist idea is that the war will lead to the aggrandise-
ment of the U.S.S.R. and the weakening of everyone
else. Stalin s primary motive in making his pact with
Hitler was his fear of Germany and the belief that
the Pact would ensure a war between Germany and
ourselves. Peace now between Germany, France and
England would probably mean that Germany would
turn on Russia and take from her not only the terri-
tories she is now occupying but much besides. Hence
the fierce abuse of pacifists and of all those who show
an awareness of the true situation.
The Communists outside Russia are being told
that a long war is now the only road to world revolu-
tion, and some “intellectuals” manage to convince
themselves by jesuitical arguments that a destructive
war, in which millions will be killed and millions more
reduced to famine conditions, will defeat Fascism and
bring the world to Socialism. It is their inability to
perceive the similarity between the Fascist and
Communist States which now leads them to become
what Lenin called social patriots. They do not realise
that the thing they fight against is the same as the
thing they fight for. The belief that the U.S.S.R. is the
antithesis of Nazi Germany, the belief that concentra-
tion camps, executions and imprisonment without trial,
terror and the secret police, and the destruction of
all civil liberties are good in the U.S.S.R. and only
horrible in Nazi Germany, blinds the “Left” to the
fact that conquest by the U.S.S.R. is no more desirable
than conquest by Nazi Germany.
The strangest phenomenon is that so few people
perceive the similarity not only in the political sys-
tems, but also in the social and political structure of
Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia. In Germany the
State controls land and capital; in Russia the State
owns land and capital. The thin dividing line between
control and ownership is fast disappearing in Ger-
many, and soon the capitalists will have ceased to
exist as a class. In Russia, where the revolution started
from below, the capitalists were liquidated and the
bureaucracy is of a different social origin to the
German. The only difference this makes is that the
Russian bureaucracy is less efficient than the German.
In both countries a bureaucracy headed by an auto-
cratic leader owns the State, and through the State has
absolute control (ownership) of land and capital and
of the lives and thoughts of men. In both countries
the workers’ organisations are State organisations, and
the workers have no means to defend themselves
against excessive exploitation.
The degree to which democratic rights and liber-
ties, and all those values which we call civilisation,
can be preserved will depend upon how and in what
circumstances the transition from our outworn social
system to a national planned economy is made. It
seems certain that if we do not withdraw from this
war against the combined forces of Hitlerism and
Stalinism the new power arising from misery and
chaos will be that of brute force exercised by a ruth-
less minority as in Russia and Germany.
“Face This War’s Facts.”
(From a London “Evening Standard” article by
Peter Howard .)
Before war broke out there were many who said:
“Hitler is bluffing. He does not intend to fight us.
When he sees that France and Britain mean to defend
Poland he will withdraw from the situation.”
Mere optimistic bluff.
Hitler did his non-aggression deal with Stalin.
He disregarded the threats of Britain and France. He
stormed into Poland. Said the citizens here: “Russia
is only luring him to destruction. She does not
mean to help him. She will send arms into Poland
to help that country to resist the aggressor. Russia
must maintain a buffer State between herself and
Germany. Poland will resist for at least three months.”
Mere optimistic bluff.
Hitler and Stalin carved up Poland between them.
Said the citizens here: “Aha, see how far west Stalin
has advanced. That is an unpleasant surprise for
Hitler. Russia is really fighting our war for us.”
Mere optimistic bluff.
Ribbentrop flew to Russia a second time. “Look
at him,” jeered the citizens here. “He has to go off
to Moscow cap in hand. He will get nothing there
except a kick and a curse.”
Mere optimistic bluff.
The Nazi and the Soviet dictators issue a joint
proclamation saying that we must stop the war or
else we shall be regarded as aggressors. In that event
the Germans and Russians will take council together
and Russia will help the Germans by supplying them
with materials of war. So the citizens here tell each
other: “Stalin does not mean it. He cannot afford
to let Hitler win. And, anyway, he cannot give him
any substantial material assistance. Besides, America
is bound to come to our help in the end. And, of
course, the war will be short because there will be
an internal revolution in Germany.”
Mere optimistic bluff.
The time has arrived to stop telling each other
these fairy tales. They may come true. But they
may not. God knows we are resolute enough and
strong enough and sure enough of ultimate victory
to face up to facts.
There is no sign at all of internal revolt in Ger-
many. Even the ten-minute sabotage of the Czechs,
so absurdly exaggerated here by eyewitnesses from
Copenhagen, has utterly folded up. The citizens of
the Reich, elated by their swift win over Poland,
delighted with the Russia deal which has removed
from them the danger of a major war on two fronts,
and with the British blockade not yet showing the
effect of its relentless pressure, are, perhaps, as much
united behind their Fiihrer as ever before.
America shows every intention of remaining out
of this war if she can, whatever the result may be.
Russia does not like Britain. There is far more
in common between the political systems of Russia
and Germany than there is between the political sys-
tems of Moscow and London. Stalin talks the same
language as Hitler. Neither of them speaks in terms
understood by Mr. Chamberlain. Stalin would not
burst out crying if either Germany or Britain went
down in this conflict. At the end of a hard-fought
and exhausting struggle the collapse of Britain would
actually suit him better, for the pickings in Asia would
be colossal, and easier to garner.
It is the height of folly to say that Russian assist-
ance to Germany in the shape of materials of war
makes no difference to the situation. True, Russia’s
transport system is bad. But German engineers can
reorganise it, if not very quickly. The fact that Russia
means to send oil and wheat and machinery into the
Nazi Reich undoubtedly makes our task harder and
lengthens our toils. Let us admit that proposition.
The quicker we face up to it, the sooner we bend
our backs to the load and begin to carry it forward,
instead of indulging in cheer-up bluff, the more swiftly
shall we reach our goal. With Russia supplying Ger-
many with goods our blockade must be more widely
flung even than in 1914-18. That is the position. Face
it, for it can be faced and overcome.
But Britain has another weapon, just as deadly
and equally effective as the blockade, which 1 am con-
vinced will win this war for the Allies. Britain is the
most efficient industrial unit in the world. Our capa-
city for industrial output is infinitely greater than that
of Germany and Russia combined. We must now
concentrate all our energies on bringing our industry
to full output in the shortest space of time. Within
a year or so we can reach a position where for every
gun that points from Germany towards the West five
guns shall point from the Allied lines towards the East.
For every shell fired by a German gun ten shells shall
be turned out from the factories of Britain. Each
bombing airplane that leaves the Nazi airports shall
be met by a host of Allied fighters and answered by
a score of British and French bombers sailing the skies
above the Reich.
That is the way to win this war. Let us here and
now direct all our energies to that end instead of
chattering about the intentions, good or bad, of the
Italians and the Turks and the Bulgars and the Greeks
and the Rumanians.


GRACE BBOS
i
W
Wmmsm .•&*
f?™* V ..1
*T—^***\
•\ s . , s . ’
'*•»'<' -•"»* '■*»«»«* *?.
-' «**"
m
Without Exception!
THE WHOLE OF THE HUGE RANGE
OF ENGLISH CRAFTSMAN TAILORED
CLOTHING IS SUBJECT TO THE
10% DISCOUNT. THIS INCLUDES:
ENGLISH DRESS WEAR, TOPCOATS,
RAINCOATS, AND LOUNGE SUITS,
WHICH ARE AVAILABLE IN THE
FAMOUS 131 FITTING RANGE.
sadf
NOVEMBER
/£) SHOP-EARLY
[yawt/ba/gM
sdf
DEDUCTED
FROM
YOUR BILL
cy
%
G\
G
m
m
USUAL PRICE £B/8/-
LESS 10%
£7112
CRAFTSMAN
TAILORED
IN
LONDON
Take advantage of
this unique offer,
which includes
Greys, Fawns and
Navy English
Worsted in a large
number of fittings,
and each garment
is in perfect con-
dition.
GRACE BROS. PTY., LTD., BROADWAY, SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 6506


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
When a horse tricks even his trainer,
what hope is there for the average
backer? Randwick trainer J. H. Abbs
did not put a penny on Mosaic in
the W. S. Cox Plate at Moonee Valley on
Saturday, sharing the general opinion that
the distance, 9j furlongs, was too .short
for his horse. The Sydney Cup winner,
starting at 50 to 1, upset his calculations
and cut quarter of a second off the course
record for the distance. It was one of the
greatest weight-for-age upsets for years.
Although Abbs missed a golden oppor-
tunity of a large win for a small outlay,
first prize of £750, inclusive of a cup
valued at £lOO, was a nice consolation.
He has the added satisfaction of
knowing that his horse is probably better
than ever before, with a first-class chance
of winning the Melbourne Cup.
Soon after Mosaic’s arrival in Mel-
bourne rumors circulated to the effect
that all was not well with him.
He has always been a dainty feeder
whose diet has to be studied carefully,
and it took him a couple of days to re-
cover from the train trip. He picked up
quickly, and racegoers who saw him on
Saturday for the first time were impressed
by his appearance. He has developed
into a magnificent horse, and he advanced
to Melbourne Cup favoritism again im-
mediately after his stylish W. S. Cox
Plate success. Mosaic had occupied that
position until Rivette and Respirator had
shown such impressive form in the Caul-
field Cup a week earlier, but bookmakers
who then took risks with him are now
regretting their generosity. They have
reason to, for pre-post operators who laid
substantial sums against the Rivette-
Mosaic double will not find it easy to
finance the second leg. Mosaic looks
like winning the L. K. S. Mackinnon
Stakes at Flemington on Saturday, in
which case he will become an even firmer
favorite for the Melbourne Cup.
On Saturday Mosaic met his rivals on
better than Cup terms, and at Fleming-
ton he will meet Gold Salute (second)
131 b. and Reading (third) 41b. worse.
Mosaic, however, was having his first ex-
perience of the reverse way of going,
was running right away at the finish, is
a proved two-miler, and seems certain
to improve.
Gold Salute’s defeat meant the early
downfall of owner Alan Cooper’s
treble bet of £lOO,OOO to £lOOO about his
colt winning the Cox Plate, the Victoria
Derby and the Melbourne Cup. Nor
was there any excuse for Gold Salute’s
failure. When he streaked to the front
rounding the turn he looked to have the
race in his keeping, but he could not cope
with Mosaic’s finishing run. Cooper
was naturally disappointed, but, as Gold
Salute finished well ahead of the other
leading three-year-olds in the field, he
is hopeful that his colt will beat them
again in the Victoria Derby.
Many keen judges doubt whether
Gold Salute is a stayer. Facts back
them up, for he failed at the business
end of the A.J.C. Derby, and his weak
finish on Saturday was not the perform-
ance of a likely Cup winner. Derbies
have been won before by brilliant horses
which could not get a mile and a half
in handicap company, but, although Gold
Salute’s brilliancy will take him a long
way in the Victoria Derby, his Mel-
bourne Cup stocks have slumped consid-
erably. Even from a Derby viewpoint,
his Cox Plate performance might not
have been so attractive had Beau Vite
not stumbled badly on the bend and
caused serious interference to High Caste.
High Caste might not have won the
Cox Plate in any circumstances, for
he is a massive colt and was not suited
by the Moonee Valley track. The bends
upset him, he was never stretching out
in his customary style, and a check near
the half-mile cost him a couple of lengths.
But whatever chance he may have had
was settled completely when Beau Vite
appeared to get on the heels of Reading,
went down on his knees, and catapulted
W. Cook out of the saddle. Bartle had
to pull High Caste almost to a standstill
and slew him round to avoid trampling
on Cook. Thrown completely off his bal-
ance at such a critical stage of the race,
High Caste’s lack of dash in the straight
can be overlooked. In fifth position at
the finish, he was seven or eight lengths
behind Mosaic, but he will be an infinitely
better proposition over the longer
stretches at Flemington. Bartle stated
subsequently that his mount could not
handle the track, so intending backers of
High Caste in the Victoria Derby should
not let Saturday’s failure deter them.
By the same token, the Derby has
assumed a much more open appearance,
and Sydney trainer J. T. Cush is not only
hopeful but confident that Reading will
add the Flemington classic to his A.J.C.
Derby win.
Reading led to the half-mile in the Cox
Plate, and battled on well to finish third.
There was more merit in his perform-
ance than such a bare statement might
suggest. An injury to a foot necessitated
his withdrawal from the Caulfield Cup,
and at the same time interrupted his
preparation. In the circumstances he was
not fully wound up for Saturday’s race,
and Cush did not hide his satisfaction
with the colt’s performance. “He’s just
coming right,” declared Cush after the
race. “He has had a poisoned foot, and
has been racing on only three legs, but
now he is using all four, and I am look-
ing forward to his winning the Derby.”
Maoriland trainer T. R. George con-
sidered that Beau Vite would have had
a say in the finish but for the mishap,
but he consoled himself with the know-
ledge that the colt escaped injury. Beau
Vite appeared as well as ever when in-
spected in his stall subsequently, and, all
going well, his programme will proceed
as planned. He will be a runner for the
Derby and Melbourne Cup. Jockey W.
Cook was not so fortunate. He was re-
ported after the race to have escaped in-
jury, but he suffered a relapse a little
later, was sent to hospital for observa-
tion and admitted. At latest, he was
doing well.
A noisy demonstration coincided with
the semaphoring of Gilltown as winner
of the Moonee Valley Gold Cup. Hun-
dreds of spectators, being of opinion
that another Sydney horse, L’Aiglon, had
won, hooted vigorously, and the demon-
stration was renewed when correct weight
was announced. Arguments concerning
the correctness of the judge’s decision
continued for the remainder of the after-
noon, but the fact remains that the
majority of the dissentients watched the
race from an angle that favored the
outside horse, which was L’Aiglon.
L’Aiglon did look to have Gilltown’s
measure towards the finish, but his
jockey, D. Munro, admitted that he weak-
ened right on the post, and the fact of
his veering out under pressure heightened
the impression from the grandstand that
he had just won.
Munro, at the same time, thought that
L’Aiglon had just beaten Gilltown, but
the latter’s jockey, H. Hughes, would
have received the shock of his life had the
decision gone against him, Hughes con-
sidered that Gilltown won by even more
than the judge’s declaration of half a
head. When jockeys are fighting out a
close finish, however, they are seldom in
a position to tell with any real accuracy
which has won. They are too busy con-
centrating on getting the last ounce out of
their mounts.
Perhaps a dead-heat would have satis-
fied everybody, but The Bulletin’s rep-
resentative watched the finish from a posi-
tion close to the judge’s box and had no
doubt that Gilltown was entitled to the
verdict. After all, the judge is the only
man in a position to give a correct de-
cision. He is in a direct line with the
winning-post, whereas a position even one
yard either side of him creates a decep-
tive angle. Demonstrations are futile
affairs; they are not in the best in-
terests of the game, and the installation
of some form of electrical photographic
check would satisfy the public and put
an end to all disputes. The cost would
be well worth while, for modern camera-
eyes in America are giving complete satis-
faction. That the camera-eye as an aid to
the judge will eventually be adopted by
Australian racing clubs is the opinion
of V.A.T.C. chairman Clive Leonard,
who recently returned from abroad.
Gilltown has been a splendid invest-
ment for his owner, Oliver Triggs, who
bought him about 18 months ago. Pre-
viously Gilltown had been trained by
B. R. Payten for Mrs. P. H. Osborne, but
now he is under the care of L. J. O’Sulli-
van, who had a lot to do with Heroic
when the latter was trained by C. T.
Godby. The first horse raced by Oliver
Triggs was Gay Chou, whose wins in-
cluded a Doomben Newmarket, and his
few ventures into racehorse ownership
have yielded two or three nice prizes.
Gilltown’s win on Saturday was worth
£2200, including a cup valued at £lOO,
and his form, incidentally, was an im-
provement on his showing in the Werri-
bee Cup three days earlier, when he had
been narrowly defeated by Sir Grey. The
hot pace set by the tearaway Gay Prince,
plus Hughes’s desire to keep within
measurable distance of the leader and
the waiting tactics adopted by many
other riders, helped considerably in Gill-
town’s win. Gay Prince was also respon-
sible for Gilltown clipping a second and
a half off the Moonee Valley record for
a mile and five furlongs, and getting
within a quarter of a second of Young
Crusader’s Australasian record. Gilltown
carried 21b. more than his Melbourne
Cup weight, and the handicapper has not
put him up for his win.
No horse has won the Caulfield Cup
and Moonee Valley Cup in the same year,
but Rivette was decidedly unlucky not
to have done so. She was squeezed out
and lost two or three lengths at the start
of the Moonee Valley race, was last at
the end of a furlong, and in front of
only five horses in a strung-out field at
the six furlongs. She flattered her backers
when she made a dash coming to the
home turn, but was forced to go to the
outside, and right at the finish she was
not making much impression on the first
and second horses. With ordinary luck,
however, she would have won, and a
drop of 141 b. will help her to see out the
two miles of the Melbourne Cup.
One of the most improved horses in
Melbourne is Crojick, a four-year-old
entire by Wotan’s sire, Siegfried. Trained
by Lou Robertson for Mrs. F. J. Nathan,
he took his winning sequence to three
when he won the Phoenix Handicap on
Saturday, and the merit of his perform-
ance lay in the fact that he carried 9.0,
or 131 b. more than his Cantala Stakes
weight. Three starts back he beat Hilton
and Manrico when meeting them respec-
tively 231 b. and 251 b. better than Cantala
terms, but he has gone on improving
meantime, and there would not be nearly
that much between them now. The Can-
tala Stakes next Saturday will reveal the
full extent of his improvement, but he
has the job ahead to defeat Manrico.
Partoer (Portofino-Trench) and Stylish
(Chatham-Chaptrel), winners of the divi-
sions of the Moonee Valley St. Albans
Handicap, were yearling bargains. Par-
toer cost only 100 guineas, and Stylish
110 guineas. Taking time as a guide,
Partoer is the better of the pair, for she
won her heat in a second and a quarter
faster time than that recorded by Stylish,
who is a stablemate of Reading. Par-
toer has raced four times for two wins
and a third, but, although she seems to
be improving with every race, she will
have her work cut out to beat the Sydney
filly Trueness in the Maribyrnong Plate.
Moonee Valley was a day of course
records. In addition to Mosaic and Gill-
town recording new figures, Sea King
lopped a second and three-quarters off
the previous best when he won the Broad-
meadows Steeplechase. Only six of the
10 runners completed the course,' and
Sea King almost crashed in the straight
shortly before beginning the last round.
He took off too far, knuckled over on
landing, but made a splendid recovery.
Gold Salute’s new owner was right in
his opinion that that colt would beat
High Caste in the W. S. Cox Plate, but
the latter’s form was so far below his
previous best that it would be inadvis-
able to accept it as correct. While Beau
Vite baulked High Caste to some
extent, the latter was so decisively beaten
that it seems improbable he would have
finished ahead of Gold Salute if the race
had been run without mishap.
As a rule, it does not pay to indulge
in excuses for beaten horses, but, for
some reason or other, High Caste’s form
was not within coo-ee of that shown
by him in the Craven Plate, Caulfield
Guineas or Caulfield Stakes. The course
may not have suited him, and that idea
is upheld by the fact that he was always
some distance from the leaders.
At worst High Caste should have been
up with Reading at the finish, but he was
some lengths behind the latter, which
must be regarded as further evidence that
his showing was quite wrong. There is
of course the possibility that High Caste
is going off, but, in view of his Caulfield
Stakes win the previous week, such
sudden loss of form would be unaccount-
able. I (“Pilot”) prefer to think the track
was not to his liking, and still look to
him to win the Victoria Derby.
There is no telling how Beau Vite
would have fared if he had stood up.
He was travelling well at the time of his
mishap, and is one of those handy cus-
tomers to whom no course comes amiss.
Perhaps he may be at his best for the
Victoria Derby, but he will need to be
much better than at his last two starts in
Sydney to beat either Reading or High
Caste.
Reading must be quite himself again,
and as winner of the A J.C. Derby he is
actually better credentialled as a stayer
than any of his probable opponents.
However, I look to High Caste to wait
on him and Gold Salute, and beat them.
Wilson may stay, but he strikes me as
being a colt that would be better suited
by a lower scale of weights than that
for the Derby. Dashing Cavalier does
not read like a Derby winner, and my
opinion is that the places will go to High
Caste, Reading and Gold Salute in that
order. It is a long time since the three
placed horses in a Victoria Derby were
filled by N.S.W.-trained representatives,
but it is on the cards this time.
There could not have been much in the
reports that Mosaic scarcely did as well
as his trainer could have wished for some
days after his arrival' in Melbourne.
Mosaic was seen at his best in the W. S.
Cox Plate, and, unless defeated in the
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(By “SENTRY.”)
FIRST DAY.
Wakeful Stakes: Zonda, 1 ;
Dreamsome, 2 ; Snow White, 3.
Maribyrnong Plate: Trueness, 1 ;
Procyon, 2 ; Partoer, 3.
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes:
Mosaic, 1 ; Respirator, 2; Femi-
nist, 3.
Victoria Derby: High Caste, 1 ;
Reading, 2 ; Gold Salute, 3.
Cantala Stakes: Manrico, 1 ;
Hilton, 2 ;.Crojick, 3.
Hotham Handicap: Donor’s Hill,
1 ; Maikai, 2 ; Landlaw, 3.
SECOND DAY.
MELBOURNE CUP.
Rivette 1
Mosaic 2
Pantler or Respirator 3
Cup Hurdle Race: Cheery Jack,
1 ; Pooley Bridge, 2 ; Glenlonan, 3.
Cup Steeplechase: Lome, 1 ;
Green Cape, 2 ; Sea King, 3.
MELBOURNE CUP.
(By “PILOT.”)
Mosaic 1
Respirator 2
Cooranga or Rivette 3
FOR CANTERBURY PARK.
(To be held at Moorefield.)
(By “PILOT.”)
Progressive Stakes: Tusculum, 1 ;
Magic Ring, 2 ; Galtheon, 3.
Flying Handicap: Sigh, 1 ; Rival
Chief, 2 ; Blue Baron, 3.
Two-year-old Handicap: Dark
Elegance, 1 ; Sans Ame, 2; All
Agog, 3.
Canterbury Handicap: After Six,
1 ; Buzzal, 2 ; Unafraid, 3.
Highweight Handicap: Rex, 1 ;
Samurai, 2 ; Rival Chief, 3.
Welter Handicap: Toy Time, 1 ;
Breeze, 2 ; Fiddler, 3.


"AND EVERY DOG HIS DAY”— Kingsley
85SSfi:«W
IM
AUSTRALIA IN PICTURE,
STORY AND VERSE
Your country in picture, story, and verse—portrayed on beautiful art
paper. You will want this excellent Annual to keep, or send to friends.
52 pages of Australian Pictorial Treasure Trove. 4 Colour Art Covers.
Country Life Annual
1939
i/-
On Sale at All Newsagents.
Or Country Life Newspaper —60a Pitt Street, Sydney, 1/2 (Postage included).
1 /-
Make sure of a Winner
by using
‘BOSCA’ SADDLERY
sadf
“Bosca” Saddles and Gear have proved
superior to other saddlery in quality and
long wear throughout the World.
Be sure it’s a “BOSCA.
Large range in all styles of Race,
Exercise, Polo and Stock Saddles kept m
stock, or made to order.
Send for free illustrated catalogue.
FRANK ARNOLD,
122 Bathurst Street (near Elizabeth St.),
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
L. K. S. Mackinnon Plate, will continue
at the top of the Melbourne Cup quota-
tions. Failure in Saturday’s weight-for-
age race seems improbable, but even if
that should happen the longer distance
is going to help him in the Cup.
• . * ' . ‘ * *
He will be meeting Gold Salute 131 b.
worse than at Moonee Valley 71b. worse
if the latter should win the Derby but
while it is certain Mosaic can get two
miles doubt still attaches to Gold Salute
as a stayer. In the A.J.C. Derby he did
well for a mile and a quarter, but in
the W. S. Cox Plate he found nine and
a half furlongs a shade far. A decisive
win in the Victoria Derby would, of
course, improve his Cup prospects, but
would not make his chance read better
than that of Mosaic.
* T xr o A/r i • “c* i ' (C
Tke fc K. Mada™ Stofce. (for-
merly the Melbourne Stakes) has not
always been a good Cup guide I saw
Spearfelt miss a place in it prior to win-
mng the Cup with 9.3, but of more recent
years Peter Pan twice brought off that
double, and two years ago The Trump
was successful in both races.
While Mosaic’s* form’last S*aturday was
impressive, so was that of Rivette in the
Moonee Valley Cup. With 141 b. more
than her Melbourne Cup weight she was
scarcely a length away from Gilltown
and L Aiglon, whom she will meet on
very much better terms. She appears
to hold those two, as well as Ortelle s Star
and Son of Aurous. The longer journey
may assist Son of Aurous, but as he will
be 121 b. worse off by comparison with
Rivette it is difficult to see how he is
going to beat her. It is stated Rivette is
to be one of the Cantala Stakes field, but,
while the mare’s trainer must be credited
with knowing more about her than any
outsider, one can be excused for querying
whether that run is quite necessary in
winding her up. .
The Cantala will be a severe rare and
Ihe Cantata will be-a severe race, and
Rivette is so forward m condition that
hard racing for her cannot be a necessity.
t orv,
I am writing the day prior to acceptance,
and it will not surprise me if her owner
decides to change his present plans,
especially as a win seems too muth to
expect, with Manrico, Hilton and Crojick
standing in the way.
. . . . .
Respirator continues to do satisfactory
work, and, on 81b. better than Caulfield
Cup terms, his chance of downing Rivette
should be really good if he had as much
bad luck at their last meeting as reported,
There is, as I have written previously,
just a doubt as to whether Respirator is a
two-miler. It is said he was really
weakening when the winning-post was
reached at Caulfield, but that would be
excusable after making a very long run.
There will not be quite the same early
bustling for positions at Flemington, and
that should be in Respirator’s favor.
. • •
Feminist will have to improve upon
her Caulfield form to beat Rivette,
Maikai or Respirator, and though light-
weights in David Spear and Pantler are
entitled to consideration the Melbourne
Cup is a difficult race for any young-
ster who can go to scale at 7st. or less,
They rarely have the experience neces-
sary for such a long race, and the im-
portance of a Cup occasionally worries
eve n experienced riders. A prominent
j oc k ey once said to me, after an unsuc-
cessful ride on a well-backed horse in the
Gup: “The occasion was too great for
j-j-jg • j j-ode a shocking race ”
Catalogue was a runner for the W. S.
Cox Plate, but his showing did not sug-
gest another Melbourne Cup win with
101 b. more than he carried last year. The
distance at Moonee Valley should have
suited him well enough to enable him to
show up at some part or other, but he
entirely failed. Buzalong did better than
most the rough divis f on in the w s
£ ox pj ate buk though last week he was
supported to some extent for the Cup I
sdd question whether he will see out two
mde g
'......
Gilltown may not be suited by that dis-
tance t and though when the weights were
I had a fancy for Bourbon i
see ™ a ? he Wlll ackle the Cu P f n a
[ ather ll f h 1 t Preparation, consequent on
kls recent trouble.
Cooranga ran in Saturday’s w.f.a. race,
but both the distance and terms wer e
aga j nst ber> j t j s improbable her trainer
regarded her as even a possibility for a
place and was probably satisfied when
she beat a few home .
.
Derby running may put a different
complexion on affairs, but at present
there does not seem much likelihood of
this being a three-year-old’s Cup. Gold
Salute’s run on Saturday was not that of
a stayer, even though he beat the others
of his age. Beau Vite was going well
when he t> lundered so badly that his rider
ff but though he was reported
, - ’
? s be “« quite riglit subsequently there
is a chance yet of his fall affecting him
, , Wikon is searcelv comine un
adversely. Wilson is scarcely com ng p
“Pf! ons ; and th ° u 8 h L ™ ls , *
hopeful Btllposter may do well under his
hght weight he has> no yet accomplished
anything genuinely suggestive of Cup
form. Reading will have to win the
Derby to put him in line for success in
the Cup, and if he fails to beat the
others of his age on Saturday I cannot
see there is much hope for any three-
year-old in the Cup.
' * * * , * . * !
Last week I selected Mosaic, Respirator,
tte, Cooranga and O r t e Jl e s . Star as a
hkely collection, giving Mosaic prefer-
ence - There is no reason to depart from
fj l ? opinion that the last-named will be
m ls y ear s winner. * *
„ , * , , e . .* .
S y dne y s Cantala Stakes winners are
Violoncello, Claro, Amounts (twice),
Vaals, Dermid, Denis Boy, Care Free,
Mohican and St. Constant, a good
record for 20 years. This time there is
little likelihood of anything from N.S.W.
being successful. Phoenix Handicap run-
ning at Moonee Valley last week seem-
ingly disposed of any chance of Mil-
dura’s success. He was in receipt of
41b. from the winner, Crojick, who is
getting 31b. from him in the Cantala.
Backers will ask for scarcely anything
outside Manrico, Crojick and Hilton on
Saturday. Last year St. Constant won
at 12 to 1, and the previous year Mohi-
can at sto 2. Amounis, with 9.12 in
1929 holds the record for weight sue-
cessfully carried, and Mohican’s 1.35* is
the time record for the race. The last
two winnefs were ridden by W. Cook,
* * * *
L’Aiglon is an unlucky Sydney horse,
his win at the recent A.J.C. spring meet-
ing being his first since his Sydney Cup
of last year. Melbourne-trained Beech-
“Bet you a bob THIS puts im out.”
wood has been even more unfortunate.
He won the Bronte and Rous Handicaps
at the same meeting that L’Aiglon took
the Sydney Cup, and has been out of
the winning list ever since. Last season
Beechwood started eight times for three
seconds and two thirds, and in Mel-
bourne during the past fortnight he added
a second and a third to his minor
placings. Seconds and thirds pay train-
ing expenses, but are aggravating and
costly for any owner who bets. Beech-
wood’s good run may cause him to get
sufficient additional weight to still keep
him out of the winning list.
* * * *
Melbourne has some smart two-year-
olds, Partoer, who easily beat St.
Andrew in the St. Albans Handicap at
Moonee Valley being one. However,
she, like the remainder of the southern
division, will find it hard to keep out of
the way of Trueness in the Maribyrnong
Plate, despite the latter’s penalty. Pro-
cyon, Florin, Mormon and Securities
are good, but the odds are in favor of
N.S.W. doing better than last year, when
Merry Smile was favorite at 9 to 4, with
Beau Mari next at 11 to 2. Neither got
a place, the winner being Aurania, a
33-to-l chance. Sydney’s last Maribyr-
nong Plate winner was the Constant Son
filly Fidelity, ridden by D. Munro. The
time record is still Rampion’s 59| in
1925. It is remarkable that, though
more horses are now bred in Australia,
the largest Maribyrnong field was the
30 of Segenhoe’s year, 1881. Commenc-
ing with 1873, and continuing to 1884,
the smallest field was 18. Runners have
twice got down to seven, that being the
number in the respective years of New-
haven and Bee Bee.
* * * **
Gilltown did little * good for Mrs.
P. H. Osborne, his only win for her being
a £llO Maiden Handicap at Rosehill.
He mended his ways when he changed
ownership, and for Triggs he has won
three races at Randwick totalling £1420
and a gold cup of £lOO, one of £2BO at
Moorefield, another of £l9O at War-
wick Farm, and now the Moonee Valley
Cup of £2200, including a trophy. In
addition Gilltown has given a return in
minor place-money. I do not know
what Gilltown cost, but it is safe to say
he has returned his purchase-money
several times over. In the Cup he is
bound to be prominent for a long way,
but, as the handicapper evidently reckons,
the distance is likely to bother him.
* * * *
The absence in Melbourne of a large
number of Sydney racing men affected
the attendance at Rosehill to some extent,
but the secretary, R. Rowe, said it was
satisfactory, and he can speak with
authority on that score. Most of the
races were won by well-backed horses,
the only real grain of comfort for the
bookmakers during the afternoon being
the success of Woolooga.
• *. • • * *
Form pointed to Sans Ame for the
Macarthur Stakes, but he missed the
jump out, and was never among the lead-
ing division. The winner turned up in
Sobersides, who disposed of the oppo-
sition so comfortably that another win
for him should not be long in coming,
He is by Tippler from No Belle, and
therefore a brother to well-known win-
ners in Silenus, Havaspot, Dermid and
Falstaff. Bred by Hunter White, he is
trained by G. P. Nailon for F. P. Hylana,
who gave 350 guineas for him as a
yearling.
• • • * *
Although All Agog was always promi-
nent, and ran up to his previous best, he
had no chance against the winner. Patn-
cian, who was third, is the Iliad-Courtesy
colt who cost Dr. C. Nigel Smith 900
guineas in Maoriland in January, and
is in Pay ten’s stable. Martheus (Pen-
theus-Marcella) and Hydra (Bullhead-
Eager Air) ran well enough to make them
worth noting, but Royal Chief’s high-
priced half-brother, Parnassus, did not
show up.
Gimcrack Stakes running made the
Lady Fitzroy Stakes look a certainty for
Dark Elegance, and so it proved. She
was fourth when the field settled down,
led in company with Status entering the
straight, and was too good for the latter
over the last bit. Still, Status acquitted
herself well, and as she is by Hall Mark
from Brown Sugar (Cooltrim-Eulita) she
should be able to gallop. Brown Sugar
has thrown four winners. Dark Elegance
is by El Cacique from Deferential. Many
Ways, who ran third, is a smart-looking
daughter of Spearhead and Lady Jane
(Grosvenor-Humility), whose sister, Gen-
tility, won races in Sydney. Contestor
was nearest the place-getters, the first
four badly beating the remainder of the
field. The time was a half-second faster
than Sobersides recorded in the colts’
and geldings’ division.
Delmestor was a very strong order for
the Spring Flying Handicap, but it was
only in the last couple of strides she dis-
posed of Merry Smiles, who, in company
with Brazandt, did most of the pace-
making. I thought Rival Chief and
Berani would have something to say m
the decision of the race, but they could
not go the pace set by Brazandt and
Merry Smile, the time for the race being
only three-quarters of a second behind
the Rosehill record. Beau Ercil was
fourth, and may not be long in striking
winning form.


BEST GIFTS
FOR MEN IN KHAKI
FOR MEN IN BLUE
FOR MEN IN MUFTI
FOR WOMEN TOO
INDISPENSABLE
AT HOME OR IN CAMP
To Keep the Lines of
Communication Open
Are all British Made
And all British Owned
(There’s a difference)
I
/
THE PEN THAT LASTS
/
O'
THERE are many reasons why you choose
a Swan. Here are just three :— LARGE
14=ct. GOLD NlB —the Swan nib is first
and foremost for smooth writing and long
life. And there is a nib to suit your hand
exactly. A SWAN CANNOT LEAK —the nib is
c sealed ’ by a double safety cap—you can
carry the pen in any position. STARTS WRIT-
ING INSTANTLY —the ink begins to flow
directly nib touches paper.
So don’t be satisfied with anything less than,
a Swan. See one demonstrated.
dfs
OBTAINABLE OF ALL
STATIONERS AND DEALERS
PRICES: The Visofil (“Biff-fUl”)
Swan, 37/6. The Heverless (“Quick-
till”) Swan from 21/-. Other
Swans from 15/-. All in black or
colours.
Made in England by Mabie,
Todd & Co., Ltd., London, W.l.
dfs
—and remember,
SWAN INK
makes ALL
pens write
better I
W-IBJE, xopp & CO. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., 255 a George St., Sydney,
and 383 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
The Blizzard was disappointing m a
mile race at Victoria Park last Thurs-
day, but in the Cumberland Handicap
the extra quarter-mile was to his liking.
Never further back than fourth, he
seemed inclined to hang a bit at the turn,
but worried Cherry Bar down in the
last hundred yards. The Blizzard is a
Jong way from the standard of his
brother, Marauder, but will win more
middle-distance races.
Red Sails shaped well considering he
was carrying only two pounds less than
9st., and did not have the best of luck
in the run home. Pen Name scarcely
ran as well as at Randwick. The French-
man made the pace very solid for a mile
and then tired. His owner must now be
somewhat puzzled how to place him in
order to win another race.
Woolooga, another failure at Victoria
Park a couple of days earlier, fairly out-
stayed Brave Bird in the first division of
the Maiden after they had made a match
of it from the half-mile. Brave Bird ran
about a lot after turning for home, but,
even if she had kept straight, the result
would not have been different. Woolooga
is by Melfort, Brave Bird by Heroic, and
Gundagai (third) by Pantheon from
Ilatait, winner of numerous races at the
A.R. C. courses, as well as elsewhere, and
dam of Constant and Ilatheon. Of the
remainder only Billy Moon and Denis
Boy ran respectably.
Good-looking Tyrannus had no diffi-
culty in winning the second division of
the Maiden Handicap, leading practically
all the way. He boasts an excellent pedi-
gree, being by Pantheon from Etoru,
sister to Thrice, Three, Volpi and Trey,
the last-named being the dam of Trivalve.
Bred at Kia-Ora, Tyrannus was sold as
a yearling for 425 guineas. The minor
places in Tyrannus’s race went to Grace
Woods and Aldabra, but Conundrum,
who came home well in fourth position,
may score a win before either.
In the Parramatta Mile Binnia Hero,
who is now racing as honestly as could
be wished, was much too good for Ath-
boy at the finish. The latter was first
into the straight, but nearly a furlong
from home it was apparent Binnia Hero
would win. He did not commence
smartly, but from the half-mile had a
lucky run on the rails. It is probable he
will be useful over a distance before the
close of the season. Lockray, in third
place, ran fairly, and High Dividend,
though not a place-getter, shaped better
rhun when recently heavily backed at
Randwick. Lord Valentine, though well
in the market, did not give his supporters
a look-in.
* * * *
Canterbury Park holds its meeting at
Moorefield on Saturday. There are
growls as to the non-liberality of clubs in
prize-money, but the entrants for the
Canterbury Park Handicap of £3OO are
proof that when big spring meetings are
being held in Melbourne clubs are justi-
fied in cutting things fine, if possible.
With so many owners and trainers
absent from Sydney the horses compet-
ing are sure to be of indifferent class.
* * * *
There are not a great many owners
who do not regard racing more as a
business than a sport. Recently I heard
an owner express himself opposed, in
principle, to any of his horses not doing
their best. “But,” he continued, “busi-
ness exigencies occasionally make it
necessary. You do not knowingly buy
any article at more than its value, and
if a prize is on the small side and the
books’ prices are cramped ‘business ex-
igencies,’ as I have already remarked,
make it necessary for you to do things
of which you do not approve. Particularly
so when you have backed a non-trier,
owned by someone else.”
* * * it
Training horses at suburban tracks has
its drawbacks, one being the difficulty
of getting boys to ride work. It is com-
plained by trainers that while jockeys do
turn up they pierely ride gallops for
a favored few, leaving the bulk to be
done by a few boys who do not do much
race riding. Official supervision is said
to be necessary, but trainers do not com-
plain for fear of being victimised in
some way. No jockey can be thoroughly
fit unless he rides a full share of work,
and many races have been lost by fit
horses because of unfit jockeys.
* * * *
There were six starters for last year’s
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes, and the field
is unlikely to be any larger on Saturday
unless the owners of some Melbourne
Cup candidates reckon they need a wind-
ing-up race. The Trump, El Golea and
Donaster are among those engaged, but
a win at nine and a half furlongs at
Moonee Valley points to Mosaic being
favored by an extra half furlong at Flem-
ington. A year ago Ajax won at 5 to 2
on, the minor places going to Royal Chief
and Silenus. Mosaic may not be such a
hot favorite as Ajax, but it seems as if
he will also start at odds on.
* * * *
Of last year’s 22 runners for the Mel-
bourne Cup eight started inside of 20
to 1. Royal Chief was favorite at 5 to 1,
followed by Nuffield (11 to 2), then St.
Constant (6 to 1), Marauder (8 to 1),
L’Aiglon and Bourbon (9 to 1), Plectrum
(14 to 1) and Spear Chief (15 to 1). Of
that lot Bourbon did best, finishing
second, and Royal Chief was fifth. Cata-
logue (winner) was at 25 to 1, and
Ortelle’s Star 40 to 1. The penalised
runners were Ortelle’s Star 61b., Royal
Chief 51b. and St. Constant 91b.
* * * *
The fact of Mosaic having weight-for-
age in the Melbourne Cup is a reminder
that other three-year-old winners of the
Sydney Cup made a good showing in
the Flemington big two-miler when less
favorably handicapped. At three years
San Fran won the Sydney Cup with 6.12,
and the following season, with 9.7, was
second to Revenue (7.10) in the Mel-
bourne Cup. Later Lord Cardigan was
first in the Sydney Cup at three years
with 8.7, and the following November
ran second with 9.6 in the Melbourne
Cup, won by Acrasia (7.6). L’Aiglon
won the Sydney Cup with 6.8, but was
unequal to making a good bid for last
year’s Melbourne Cup with 8.5. Still,
his three-year-old Cup win fell consider-
ably short of Mosaic’s form in that race,
and the latter’s chance of success in - the
Melbourne Cup with 9.0 reads much
better than did that of Digby’s horse at
the same age with 91b. less.
* * * *
Phaleron Bay had a winner—his first
in Maoriland —at the recent Wellington
meeting. It was a colt named Cetewayo,
who gave nothing a chance in the Taita
Handicap, a two-year-old race. Cete-
wayo is out of Chelae, a sister to Hero-
winkie, dam of Hall Mark. This is the
first season Phaleron Bay’s progeny have
raced, and at the Randwick yearling sales
last autumn his son from Modiste 11.
(dam of Royal Chief) realised 1300gns.
J. Scobie’s Son Norman was having
a profitable time in England with Sir
Charles Hyde’s horses when the war in-
terfered with racing in England. Tall-
boy, a three-year-old by Apron, had won
six races in succession up to the begin-
ning of September. In the fortnight
prior to September 4 Scobie had eight
winners. Evidently he imbibed his
father’s ideas in respect of training
horses, and they hold as good in England
as in Australia. Scobie’s team is noted
for the number of greys it includes.
* * * *
Opponents of the early racing of two-
year-olds can point out that Aurania,
winner of the last Maribyrnong Plate, has
not since done anything of account, and
that it was the same with Royal Sceptre
and Beaucaire, who dead-heated for the
A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate. If some racing men
had their way there would be no two-
year-old racing until December, but that
would be scarcely fair to yearling-buyers
lucky enough to get hold of ready-made
gallopers. It would give the owners of
slower-developing youngsters consider-
able advantage, and the man who gives
a high price for a yearling in the belief
that it is likely to give a quick return is
entitled to consideration. Early racing
may not be for the ultimate good of
horses, as a whole, but winners of many
important handicaps made an early start;
while others that did very little racing
until they were three, never became gal-
lopers, notwithstanding they had the
necessary breeding on their side. They
might not have done any better if they
had been trained as two-year-olds.
Some years ago a syndicate reserved a few
of its purchases until they were three
before trying them. They did not turn
out nearly as well as other youngsters
the syndicate raced in the spring as two-
year-olds. A lot can be said for and
against on both sides, but in racing
nothing is certain, and, whichever course
he may decide upon, it may eventually
be forced upon an owner that he erred
in not doing the reverse. Anything in
the way of a set rule is a mistake.
* * * *
J. J. Leahy had reason to be pleased
with the result of the Initial Stakes at
the W.A.T.C. (Perth) meeting this month.
It was run in three divisions, and of these
one was won by the filly Sansovan, and
another by the colt Superfine, both being
by Sansofine, who was bought by the
breeder named when sent from W.A. to
N.S.W. Sansofine has a first-class pedi-
gree, being by the English Derby winner
Sansovino (son of Swynford) from Fifine,
by Sunstar (Derby winner) from Fifi-
nella (Derby and Oaks winner). Sar-
cherie, placed in three Melbourne Cups,
foaled a colt to Leighton this season, and
has been mated with Sansofine. The
owner of the two is justified in antici-
pating a good result.
American clubs greatly favor special
races for cracks, and one of note is to
be run at Pimlico (Baltimore, Maryland)
to-day, unless something has occurred to
cause it to be called off. The early
entrants included five of America’s best
of this season —Challedon, Kayak 11.,
Johnstown, Eight Thirty and Cravat. One
thing the race was expected to decide was
whether Challedon or Johnstown was the
better three-year-old. Johnstown had
been off the scene for some time prior
to the departure of the last American
mail for Australia, but at Hawthorne
(Chicago) on September 16 Challedon
added the Gold Cup and £A2725 to his
record. Second money was £750, third
£375, fourth £lB7, and fifth £125. The
race was a handicap, and Challedon
(8.8) beat seven other runners in 2.3 1-5
for the mile and a quarter.
* * * ■ *
The declaration of war played havoc
with English sporting publications. On
September 5 the “Sporting Chronicle”
announced that from that date it would
be suspended as a daily publication, and
would only be issued each Saturday. Its
other publications, “Racing Up to Date”
and “Handicap Book,” were to be sus-
pended until racing was resumed. The
“Sporting Life” also became a weekly
instead of a daily. The Jockey Club’s
official publication, the “Racing Calen-
dar,” announced the definite abandon-
ment of several meetings, but others were
to be held, though not on the dates origi-
nally arranged. For the first week after
the announcement of the war there was
no racing anywhere in England. In the
previous war there was none for three
weeks.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia .)
Regarded by the leading golfers as
being the most important part of the
game, good putting is the stroke-saver
in successful championship golf. An
analysis of this season’s major events


-THANKS MUM
Wsmmi
Stropped in a few seconds
Cleaned in a few seconds
A few strokes on the strop
keeps the Valet blade in tip-
top condition. Changing
blades is simple and rarely
necessary. Cleaning the Valet
is even simpler ! Nothing to
take apart or put together
a rinse and a wipe and
Valet is ready for next day’s
perfect shave.
•
OF ALL DEALERS
BRITISH MADE
The young man who starts his
shaving career with a Yalet Razor
is fortunate. He will avoid much
fuss and bother and form a life-
time habit of shaving with speed
and comfort.
This combined Razor and Strop-
ping machine is simple to use and
most effective. Valet leaves no
stubborn hairs uncut and gives
the same brisk shave day after
day. One blade lasts for weeks.
No. 55 Nickel Case Set. Contains razor,
strop and three blades .. .. price 12/-
Other sets from, 4/6 to 45/-
AUTOSTROP SAFETY RAZOR
Managing Agents for Australia:
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
reveals that most of them were won on
the greens. Appearing to be the simplest
department of golf, it has caused the
downfall of the greatest players at some
time or other. Some say good putters
are born, not made ; but I disagree. I
have seen poor putters become deadly
on the greens after overcoming a small
fault.
Good putting comes from first obtain-
ing a sound style and, second and all-
important, regular and thoughtful prac-
tice. There is really no excuse for bad
putting. No matter how inferior a player
may be with his shot-making, he should
at least be able to get down in two putts
when he reaches the green. A little con-
centration upon the right lines will work
wonders with the worst of putters. While
not claiming to be able to make any
golfer hole 20ft. putts regularly, I am
convinced that no player should take
three putts.
The excellence of the modern greens
is an aid to good, sound putting.
The holing of long putts should be left
to the scratch golfer; the handicap
player should concentrate upon laying
the ball as close to the hole as
possible. The putter has always been
my favorite club; it has been in-
strumental in saving me in numerous
tight corners. I have followed the
rule that, above all, relaxation
plays a major part in improving one’s
putting. Too many golfers are apt to
forget that a putt is a smooth piece of
stroking rather than a definite hit. This,
combined with lack of courage, is re-
sponsible for more putting failures than
anything I know of.
A player can never be a good putter
if he is timid. Since golf was first started
many methods, some weird and amusing,
have been advocated ; but any method
that allows the club-head to be taken
straight back and through the ball must
be successful.
My own style, which I arrived at some
years ago as being the most suitable for
me, is similar to that- used by many
players. With my feet about 18in. apart
and square on to the line of putt, the
right foot is 2in. in front of the left
foot. This stance puts most of my weight
on the left leg. The grip is the same as
I use for all shots, with the slight excep-
tion that the vees formed by the thumb
and forefinger are both running down
the shaft, while the thumb of the right
hand is on top of the shaft.
If the thumb is placed over the shaft,
meeting the first finger, it has the ten-
dency to pull the club off the line to the
left coming through. By having both
hands running down the shaft in the same
manner they are in an ideal position to
work against one another evenly and
produce a smooth stroke. As to the
actual playing of the stroke, I use the
right hand throughout, the thumb and
forefinger doing most of the work. By
taking the club back with the right hand
it finds the left acting as guide. In com-
ing down, the right hand thus pushes the
blade through, opening it slightly after
the ball has been struck and eventually
finishes well open, pointing along the line
of putt. With this style of putting I
rarely miss a flat putt on the right side
of the hole, as the right hand tends to
add topspin to the ball as well as slightly
drawing it to the left of the hole.
Bad putters miss the hole on both
sides, while lack of touch is another fault
which can ruin a player’s putting. Dur-
ing the entire backswing the face of my
club is kept shut or closed. The ideal
combination is a relaxed grip, with the
forearm and shoulders keeping entirely
out of the stroke until after the ball is
on its way. The putter blade should be
kept as close to the ground as possible
during the putt.
While it is comparatively easy to
describe one’s stance, grip and methods,
the secret of good putting, confidence,
is the most elusive factor to acquire. Put-
ting depends greatly on confidence and
right mental outlook. These can be gained
only by playing on various types of
greens, and as a member of several clubs
1 find the different classes of greens at
my disposal of great assistance. Although
possessing nearly a dozen putters, which
all get tried during the off season, I
usually finish up using an old favorite
that has a rusty and bent shaft.
Given practice and concentration upon
keeping the putter blade on the line to
the hole, both going back and coming
through, the average player would find
his putting must improve. Too many
make the mistake of trying to hole long
putts instead of putting safely to the hole
and trying to sink the smaller ones. A
missed putt counts as a stroke just the
same as a bad fairway shot.
Ins and Outs
Bradman, looking robust and fit, made
188 in a bit under 150 minutes for Ken-
sington v. Port Adelaide on Saturday,
and Kensington won by .456 (9 wickets)
to 222. Don has swiftly regained the
form in which a year ago he turned on
his ■centuries, six in a row in represen-
tative matches —118, 143, 225, 107, 186
and 135 not out. With one more wanted
for a world’s record, he fell to spin-
bowler F. Thorn for 5. Don is 31.
* * * *
Jack Chegwyn, who hit up three cen-
turies and two 80’s for Randwick club
and a century against the Victorian Second
Eleven last season, is going strong again
in Sydney grade matches —162 for once
out. A right-hander, short and stocky,
Chegwyn is a Sydney Grammar School
cricket graduate. Not many star cricketers
have come from Sydney Grammar since
George Pitty Barbour left to become
headmaster of Toowoomba Grammar
School many years ago.
* * * *
Bill O’Reilly, skipper of St. George,
has business partner Stan McCabe in
trouble. Stan captains Mosman, the Syd-
ney premiers. Mosman lost five wickets
for 13 runs against St. George (232 ;
O’Reilly 41). H. Stapleton got four of
the five for 9—he is the Lismore left-
hander, The McCabe-O’Reilly duel this
week may lead to a new “gate” record at
Hurstville, where Board of Control
treasurer Frank M. Cush is in control.
Frank is St. George’s secretary.
* * * *
Northern Districts (Sydney) has an
attractive young right-hand batsman in
W. Morris. Has already made 340 runs
for twice out in current premiership
games, scores being 5, 22 n. 0., 32 n. 0.,
143 and 138 n.o. Standing well up to
the bowling, Morris is a full-blooded
driver, a type the crowds like. Chipper-
field, who plays for the same N.D. team,
has so far made only 98 runs. Neverthe-
less, “Chips” has never shown better form
than he is unfolding at the S.C.G. nets
this season.
* * * *
“D.J.”: A “Sunday Sun” item:
“Cheetham is the best medium-pace
bowler we have.” “We” presumably
means New South Wales. Last season
Cheetham got eight wickets for 505
runs, averaging 63.12, in the Sheffield
Shield games. In the last three
matches for Balmain he secured
two wickets for 177. At present he
is bowling “all over the shop.” If he
is the “best,” heaven help O’Reilly-
Inter-State umpires George Borwick and
W. French no-balled Cheetham ten
times or more at the S.C.G. last Satur-
day for going over the bowling crease as
much as a foot. The young man can do
better than that.
* * * *
Leslie O’Brien Fleetwood-Smith, the
“somewhat different” left-hand bowler,
struck a length and got 5 for 38 for
Melbourne v. the Colts last Saturday.
“Fleetwood” struck some bad patches last
summer. On the home ground in Mel-
bourne his toil brought him no wickets
for 152 runs in South Australia’s first
innings. At Brisbane he finished with
1 for 146 against Queensland. Never-
theless, on his day Fleetwood-Smith is
still a match-winner. He has taken a
greater number of wickets in the Sheffield
Shield than any other Victorian, 229, at
22.50. Clarrie Grimmett has the greatest
number of wickets—464, at 25.21.
* * * *
With Rigg, Ross Gregory and Sides
unavailable for the South Australian
match, Victoria brings in Beames, the
punishing right-hander who hit up 226
and 169, both not out, against Tasmania
last season, Miller, who made 181
against Tasmania in 1938, and Tamlyn.
Very good batsmen, but the men they
supplant were outstanding. Ben Barnett
is the new Victorian captain. He scored
50, 54 and 51 against Grimmett and co.
in 1938-39. In 15 matches against South
Australia he has caught 29 and stumped
10. Victoria is relying on the battery of a
year back with McCormick, Barry-Scott,
fast; Sievers, medium, and Fleetwood-
Smith and Ring, slower spin bowlers.
* * * *
Victorian administrators are worried
at the propensity of home-grown cricket-
ers for giving up the game when still in
their prime. The example of Woodfull,
Ponsford and Darling has now been fol-
lowed by Rigg, a player never quite ap-
preciated at his full worth. He had style,
a rather rare quality nowadays. The
four mentioned were, of course, bats-
men. In Sydney the young man for whom
representative cricket ceases to have
attractions is nearly always a bowler,
and generally a fast bowler. Sydney
writers on the game have eyes only for
batsmen —a fact of which O’Reilly has
repeatedly and pointedly complained. It
is only human for the young express to
desire a bit of praise occasionally; but
that, of course, is not his only grievance.
Much too often the willing colt is over-
worked. Rocking in fast stuff is no joke
in midsummer, and the youthful trier is
expected to do it for long periods without
a spell. So after a season or two he is
apt to prefer tennis, surfing or golf.
* * * *
Hammond’s Air Force commission is no
mere compliment to the English skipper.
He is a competent flying man, having
qualified years ago. Like Bradman, he
is a versatile fellow, and everything he
touches he does pretty well.
$ $ $ $
Bill Whitty, Australia’s left-hand
bowler of 30 years back, is now a leading
patron of all sport, and himself a more
than useful golfer, at Mount Gambier
(S.A.). He has just won the local “south-
eastern” championship on the links.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: A Brisbane batsman has
undergone an experience which puts Lar-
wood’s worst bodyline efforts into the
shade except for the fact that he did it
all himself. The bat turned in his hands,
the ball ran up it, got him on the point
and knocked him out. As he went down
for the count the bat struck his wicket
but did not dislodge the bails. That part
of the job was successfully carried out
by his cap as it tumbled from his head
an instant later.
Miscellaneous
An attempt is to be made in South
Melbourne to restore the old glories of
the local League football club. A corre-
sponding effort was successful in the case
of St. Kilda, a team without proud tradi-
tions, save only that it was “hard to beat
it on its own ground.” In the days of
its celebrity “Sowth” despised the Saints
and took a morbid delight in inflicting
fearful lickings on them. New blood is
needed among the players; but that
means money, so a search is being made
for a patron like Skinner or Monteath.
* * * *
Poaching is one of the pastimes of the
Sydney Rugby League. The Union game
having been established on firm founda-
tions in Parramatta, the League has
designs on that old town. Manly being
a stronghold of the amateur code, the
League has visions of gaining control of
the Manly Oval and delighting the Vil-
lagers with the exhibitions of hulking
youth, paid a few bob a match. It is
unlikely to succeed. Manly prides itself
on being a stronghold of amateur sport.


OUJ-TV.
Twice. Daily -2'15-6
TIVOLI
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-Q
THE WORLD-FAMOUS MILES BROS.,
4 Boys and a Guitar.
New Oversea Stars.
NICK liUCAS,
The Singing Troubador.
SCOTT SANDERS, Famous Comedian,
and New Stars.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
“Stanley and' Livingstone”
{With two —make it fow —ladles of salt.)
In case this Sydney Century offering
leads to yet another outcry against
mucking about with history, the view
of present writer is that that doesn’t
matter a hoot: if a film is entertaining
on its own account —and this one is—
well and good ; if there are people who
are prepared to take their history from
Mr. Zanuck, that’s their pigeon. To
get hot under the collar about it is to
credit Mr. Zanuck’s fabricating with a
power to alter the historical facts.
Against that let-’em-rip view, the
pundits, of course, can advance a whole
battery of arguments. But surely by now
film history is a joke to all but the most
solemn owls and halfwits. If it isn’t,
there could be no better recipe for mak-
ing it so than to give Mr. Zanuck a
free hand. After all, the spectacle of
Mr. Zanuck in the role of Head Clown
to Clio has its own merit as entertain-
ment.
The methods of this eminent historian,
at all events, have novelty. As in this
remarkable opus, he telescopes time to
suit his own book, takes just so much
historical fact as suits his immediate
purpose, and, where that isn’t enough,
exercises his considerable talent of pure
invention. His version of the Stanley-
Livingstone story is that Bennett, of
the N’Yark “Herald,” sent Stanley direct
from the U.S.A. to scoop the London
“Globe” by finding Livingstone. In
darkest Africa Stanley finds Livingstone
in a Salvarmy cap leading a choir of
tamed savages in spirited renderings of
“Onward, Christian Soldiers.” Stanley
returns to London and lays Livingstone’s
maps and other documentary evidence
before the Royal Geographical Society,
which votes him bogus, but has to
reverse its decision before he leaves the
building because of news which, by a
truly Zanuckian coincidence, has just
come to hand, to the effect that the dead
Livingstone had been brought out to the
coast from the African interior by his
faithful natives. A love affair contracted
in the meantime having gone astray,
Stanley returns to Africa to carry on
Livingstone’s job.
Regarded strictly as screen entertain-
ment, Mr. Zanuck’s opus easily passes
muster. It tells the story it has to tell
in a straight-flowing action narrative,
with Spencer Tracy’s accomplished film
acting pleasing to witness and Sir Cedric
Hardwicke making a fine job of Mr.
Zanuck’s misconception of Livingstone.
Splendid photography of interesting
African scenes, lions, giraffes, vultures,
natives looking for fight and suchlike
local color all help to keep it moving.
The scene, too, is novel —not the usual
jungle at all, but clear, open country.
There’s one extraordinary shot of a herd
of hippos, breaking simultaneously, with
a startling crack, the surface of water
in which they have been isubmerged,
and there’s a beauty, too, of flamingos
rising in a cloud from the edge of a
lake.
How well done it all is—taken strictly
as film entertainment —may be gathered
from the fact that Tracy even gets away
with “Dr. Livingstone, I presume!”
without raising a titter. He says it “Dr.
Livingstone” gulp “I presume,” and
the darned thing sounds natural!
* * * *
“Abus de Confiance”
If “Abus de Confiance,” the Savoy’s
latest French film, hasn’t the epic
breadth or naturalistic pattern of its
forerunner, “Grand Illusion,” it has its
own compelling qualities, including the
depth of dramatic feeling and sincerity
of purpose which distinguish the slightest
of these Continental screenings from
most Hollywood products;
Despite an excusable resort to co-
incidence to give vigor to the plot and
point to the theme, it has merit purely
as a story. The central idea of a girl
law student in Paris who, left penniless,
driven by force of circumstances and
prompted by a girl companion, tricks a
famous and wealthy writer into accept-
ing her as his daughter of an early love
affair, and then, later, is able, because
of that personal experience, to plead
eloquently in court in defence of an-
other girl caught out at the same sort
of trick, is a short-story plot that would
have been no discredit to the author of
“The Necklace.” The Maupassant touch
is further evident in the denouement, in
which the present wife of the writer,
instead of exposing the impostor, after
confirming suspicions by inquiries, pro-
vides that now repentant young person
with a sound moral justification for stay-
ing on as the accepted daughter of the
house.
The framework of the story, however,
becomes of minor importance ; suspense
is sustained through interest and sym-
pathy centred in the characters, through
whom a wide range of human emotions
is given expression, none the less telling
for being presented on a detached plane
with a faintly fatalistic note of comedy.
The leading lady, who had been seen
as only yet another pretty face in Holly-
wood films, is a different artist acting
in these accustomed surroundings, in her
native tongue and for directors who ask
for dramatic sincerity. She is alive and
vital. There is other finely sincere acting
“DR. LIVINGSTONE”—GULP—“I PRESUME!”
Sir Cedric Hardwicke (the Doc.), Spencer Tracy (Stanley), in “Stanley and Living-
stone” at Sydney Century.
in it, too. Not a film on the grand scale,
but within its structural and dramatic
dimensions a well-cut gem.
* * * *
“Sixty Glorious Years”
Introducing itself with a string of split
infinitives, this main Sydney Mayfair
offering runs on that broken vein for a
couple of hours. Like its predecessor —
“Victoria the Great” —it makes the same
sad error of attempting to represent the
life of Queen Victoria by picturing odd
extracts from it, selecting about the most
irrelevant and unimportant one imagin-
able into the bargain.
The staple of the film is made up of
pretty, but meaningless, domestic scenes
portraying various and trivial facets on
the relationship between Albert and yic-
toria. They are, in the main, negligible
incidents and sufficiently disjointed to
be worthless in building up any charac-
terisation. Brief and garbled depictions
of Sebastapol, Balaclava and the death
of Gordon at Khartoum tend, if any-
thing, to destroy further what continuity
the film may possess.
The roles of Victoria and Albert seem
to hang most ungracefully on Anna
Neagle and Anton Walbrook, and
Aubrey C. Smith labors through a sen-
timentalised version of the Duke of
Wellington.
Film is in technicolor and at times
quite attractive, though not consistently
enough to hold interest throughout.
* * * *
“Thunder Afloat”
If times were normal odds would be
1000 to 1 on the latest Sydney St. James
main offering being headed straight for
the Capitol, where they like ’em full of
action, he-men, biff and other forms of
whacko. At the St. James, where they
like ’em classy, it should dumbfound
audiences with a wild surprise.
Its main business is to show how Uncle
Sam dished the U-boats, and Wallace
Beery has the part of a rough tug-skipper
who gets a personal derry on Fritz when
a U-boat wastes a torpedo on his scrubby
old craft. That drives Wallace into
Uncle’s nav-ee, and before • it’s all over
he’s inside a German sub., has locked
himself in a compartment and is tapping
on the sub.’s side with a spanner so that
Uncle’s destroyers can locate its where-
abouts and send down depth charges to
blow it, and brave Mr. Beery, to Davy
Jones’s scrapheap. Of course, Mr. B.
has a beauteous daughter who carries
on a scrap-and-run love affair with the
youthful, tight-lipped guy in charge of
the flotilla, and naturally said guy has
to have her pop court-martialled for in-
subordination when Pop breaks from
the flotilla. Clinch for tight-lipped guy
and gal; medal the size of a soup-plate
for Pop.
* * *
Two choice items redeem the St.
James bill. Best is a Pete Smith de-
bunking of sentimentalising over nature,
as much a little masterpiece of humor
as the Beery opus is of the unconscious
variety. The other bright item is a
color cartoon, in which the more belliger-
ent of book-characters, such as the Light
Brigade, charge out of their covers in
a library at night, looking for stoush.
STAGE AND CONCERT
In its zeal for public entertainment
Melbourne City Council opened Garden
City in the Treasury Gardens last week.
Until councillors started their fell work
of beautification the Gardens were a
pleasant place to wander in or sit and
contemplate. Now, at night, flood-
lights turn up the toes of the wil-
low trees, and floodlighted fountains
spout red, green and purple ink on to
the surface of the lake, and more flood-
lights cause surprising transformations
in the surrounding shrubberies. And
florists have turned embankments into
shopwindows for their arboreal goods,
complete with ads. Acrobats perform
in an enclosure, and exotic fish disport
themselves in a marquee, and there are
other divertissements.
At time of writing a full moon is look-
ing down on the proceedings. It looks
all right. The city councillors couldn’t
reach it.
* * * *
Sydney had two operas to listen to
on Saturday night. At the Town Hall
Sydney Phil, put on a concert recital of
Gounod’s “Faust” under its new con-
ductor, Vern Barnett (the previous con-
ductor considered Gounod’s music to be
“bilge,” and said so publicly). Mildred
Walker’s singing of the “Jewel Song,”
Raymond Beatty’s Mephistopheles and
Godfrey Stirling’s Faust were highlights.
Chorus was fair ; orchestra weak.
* * # *
At Sydney Con. Hall the Con. Opera
School students showed their paces in an
abridged version of “William Tell,” with
costumes and scenery very cleverly de-
vised. Much of Rossini’s music in this
opera has escaped the 110 years of barrel-
organing given to the overture and its
march, and the less familiar numbers
were particularly successful.
Sydney de Vries sang the name-part
with dignity, Reginald Willoughby, vastly
improved in recent months, scored a per-
sonal triumph as Arnold, and Isolde Hill,
though she went through the motions of
Matilda lifelessly, sang Matilda’s music
vividly. Chorus was good ; orchestra
good as far as it went —it was far too
sparse for heavy opera. Florent Hoog-
stoel conducted with good judgment.
* * * *
The amateur musical comedy co. in
Adelaide, which performs once a year
for charities, is having a bright fortnight
at the Royal with “The Arcadians”;
Chapman as usual pro-
ducing and Sellick con-
ducting. Mary Demp-
ster as the Arcadian
and Joy Parsons as the
Irish girl sing charm-
ingly. John Duncan, a
born comedian, has
Tom Walls’s old part
of Doody, the jockey,
Gwen Coffey and
Ronald Beck laying on
riotous humor with a
broader brush. Chorus
singing and dancing
tiptop.
* * *
The Greatest Show
on Earth is this year
under canvas in Bat-
man-avenue, hard by
the Yarra. It’s the same
domestic enterprise :
Mrs. Wirth and her
daughters drinking
gingerbeer outside the
main entrance, the
menagerie waking up
to roar when dinner-
time approaches, Phillip
Wirth inside directing a
bill as replete with
familiar items for the
habitue as ever but full
of novelties for the
youngsters; and the
smell of the sawdust,
if anything, a bit more potent.
The performing elephants are more
spectacular than the City Council’s pro-
duction of “Hiawatha,” and for thrill,
grace and skill the aerobatics of the Fly-
ing De Vards could not be bettered. The
girls who play basketball on bicycles in
matches between N.S.W. and Victoria
arouse more excitement than a Cup
finish.
Arthur sts.
Paul Haefliger’s show at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, comprises oils, water-
colors and a couple of woodblock
prints. Subjects include large figure
compositions, nude studies, portraits,
still-lifes, landscapes and “abstractions.”
One or two of the landscapes exhibit
some suavity ; the woodblock prints are
more pleasing than any of the other
exhibits.
* * * *
Mabel Barling, who stages an exhibi-
tion of pottery and drawings in water-
color at her studio in the Victoria
Arcade, Sydney, is, as her drawings and
models testify, a close and intelligent
student of animal anatomy; Australian
fauna and the denizens of Taronga Park
Zoo provide the greater part of the sub-
jects for her decorative pottery, and ex-
periments with the variously-colored
clays to be found in N. S. Wales have
added to the effectiveness of her color
schemes. Figures such as Mephistopheles
and Pierrot and masks in gfeat variety
are features of her show. General stand-
ard of design and execution of the pot-
tery is high.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
....
m
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
Personal and Missing Friends.
IN THE ESTATE OF THOMAS BERRY, late
of Southgate, Clarence River, Farmer, deceased.
Will anyone knowing the whereabouts of
EMMA WHITE, daughter of the above, or her
children, Maud Ellen White, George Reginald
White and James White, communicate with
FOOTT, LAW AND CO., Solicitors, Grafton,
N.S.W.?
IN THE ESTATE of WILLIAM ALLSE-
BROOK, late of Hobart in Tasmania,
painter and paperhanger, deceased.
WILL BINGHAM CHARLES ALLSE-
BROOK, a son of the abovenamed deceased,
who was last heard of in Queensland about 16
or 18 years ago, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE OF TASMANIA, Hobart?
Legal Notices.
TO SIDNEY HUNGERFORD LUTTRELL
formerly of Marradong in the State of
Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia D. No. 10 of 1939 by
Dalgety and Company Limited of William
Street Perth in which the plaintiff’s claim is
for £760 4s. 4d. for moneys lent the price of
goods sold and delivered moneys paid for
you at your request and interest particulars
of which have been rendered by the plaintiff
to you And that it has been ordered that ser-
vice of the writ in the said action on you be
effected by this advertisement If you desire
to defend the said action you must within 45
days from and inclusive of the Bth day of Novem-
ber 1939 enter an appearance at the Central
Office Supreme Court Perth In default of such
appearance judgment may be entered against
you Your appearance to the said writ must
give an address at some place within five miles
of the Central Office of the Supreme Court of
Western Australia at Perth at which address
proceedings and notices for you may be left.
DATED the 2nd day of October, 1939.
PARKER & PARKER, 21 Howard Street,
Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
William Morgan, Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania dated the 15th day of Sep-
tember 1939 in the matter of the Estate
of WILLIAM MORGAN late of Boobyalla
in Tasmania Pastoralist deceased who died on
or about the sth day of January 1938 and in
the action The Equity. Trustees Company of
Tasmania Limited against Rosa Maria Mar-
garet Riddle and Others whereby the following
Enquiry was directed that is to say: An En-
quiry who was or were the person or persons
entitled by virtue of or according to the Statute
of Distribution or otherwise to the estate of the
said William Morgan deceased intestate living
at his death and whether any of them are since
dead and if so who is or who are their legal
personal representatives NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all persons claiming to be entitled
under the said Enquiry are on or before the
Ist day of December 1939 to send by post
prepaid to the Registrar of the Supreme Court
of Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart Tasmania
Australia their full Christian and surnames
addresses and descriptions and full particulars
of their claim or in default thereof they will
be excluded from the benefit of the said Order
unless the Court or Judge on application other-
wise orders. Claimants are to attend person-
ally or by their solicitor before his Honor the
Judge at his Chambers Franklin Square Hobart
on Thursday the 14th day of December 1939
at 10.30 of the clock in the. forenoon being
the time appointed for adjudicating upon the
claims. A claimant not residing in the State
of Tasmania must send with the particulars m
his claim the name and address of a person in
Tasmania to whom notices for the claimant can
be sent. „ „ ,
DATED this 23rd day of October, 1939.
(L.s.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
MURDOCH, CUTHBERT & CLARKE,,I3S
Macquarie Street, Hobart, Agents for MESSRS.
CLARKE & GEE, Solicitors for the Equity
Trustees Company of Tasmania Limited.
Divorce Notice.
THE
NEW
SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1517 of 1939.
iETWEEN CECIL HENRY RICE Petitioner
And AGNES FERGUSON formerly Agnes
Mischke (falsely called and known as Amy
Stella Kirby).
O AGNES FERGUSON.
TAKE NOTICE that the said CECIL
TFNRY RICE has commenced a suit against
ou in this Honorable Court and is applying
or a dissolution of marriage on the ground
hat the ceremony performed between you and
timself on the Fourth December One thousand
line hundred and thirty-seven was nuU and
oid and of no effect AND TAKE tNOIiLC
hat you are required to enter an ea f ran h c .
o the said suit at the proper office of this
Jonorable Court on or before the ninth day
»f January One thousand nine hundred and
orty and in the event of your not doing s
vithm the time limited or obtaining further fim
he Petitioner will proceed and the suit
ieard and determined your absence notwith-
tanding A copy of the petition filed herein
nay be S had on application to the undersigne
re DATEE> ar fhe Tenth day of October One
housand nine hundred thmty-nme.Y^
Registrar.
J CLOUSTON DIVE & SHORT, Solicitors
'or Petitioner, 74 Pitt Street, Sydney.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
The staircase and entrance to the
Minerva were simmering with excitement
half an hour before the curtain went up
on the “Dinner at Eight” matinee for
the C.W.A. patriotic fund. The Cumber-
land branch had arranged the afternoon,
which will also give a lift to the associa-
tion’s Emergency Hospital. This is a
very special service to the outback
mother. President Mrs. F. Barber made
an inspiring speech.
Lady Wakehurst, dark blue her frock
and hat, deep red her roses, watched
the play from one of the boxes. With
her were Mrs. Hubert Fairfax and Mrs.
Lance Smith, group president of the
Middle West and one of Orange’s most
popular. Secretary Mrs. H. J. Brady,
with a companion, made joyous tour at
the back of the stage, meeting old Mel-
bournite Alec Pratt, of the booming
voice, and lan Keith, of the meticulous
make-up. Very smart was her frock of
white, with its front panel all cyclamen
stripes. Mayoress Nock was in the audi-
ence ; so were Mrs. Colin Venn, Mrs.
Arthur James and Mrs. W. Giblin, of
New Guinea. Groups of girls looking
like a song of spring in their summery
frocks and hats sold programmes.
Your proudest decoration on Novem-
ber 10 will be a poppy. Armistice Day
will be observed with the usual service
in Sydney, and already the great wreaths
which the Governor and the State
Premier will place on the Cenotaph are
nearing completion. They are the work
of a soldier’s widow. The poppies sold
in this State are made by disabled sol-
diers and the dependants of soldiers.
Throughout the Empire the emblem gives
employment to this brave and distressed
brotherhood. Last year the sale of pop-
pies was increased by 10,000. This year
the workers hope for even better results.
The place to meet all the people you
know or had ever heard of last week was
Ella O’Shea’s room at St. Vincent’s Hos-
pital. Incidentally, crossing from door to
bedside was like doing some intricate
floral dance. Baskets of roses to the
right of you, baskets of lilies to the left.
Here a table with two vases of sweet-
peas and carnations and still paper-
enwrapped bouquets. There, lurking
behind some books, a bowl of water-lilies.
A raft of red roses at the end of the bed
stared at a posy on the top of an easy-
chair. Miss O’Shea, sitting up, held
sprightly court, in spite of bandaged head
and right eye. Nan Garvan, straight from
the Blake Pelly heir’s christening at St.
Andrew’s, Queenslander Mrs. E. J. Watt,
the Barraclough lady, Mrs. Rogers and
Mrs. Pope, of Manly, were a few of the
callers. Banker Davidson’s wife sent a
bunch of home-grown flowers. One
young mother brought a son. He, like
the young Frenchman he is, kissed Miss
O’Shea’s hand, and presented a posy.
Then he sat very still, his eyes intently
on her bandaged head. But when
mother and he were taking their de-
parture his eager voice drifted backwards.
“Mother, who hit her?”
The wealth of orchids and the brilli-
ance of daughter Patricia’s new engage-
ment ring evoked the note of exclama-
tion among the guests at the Salenger
home last Thursday afternoon. Killara
neighbors were there in numbers, and
from all the North Shore line and town
friends of the Crown-street Women’s
Hospital came to enjoy the afternoon’s
music. Mrs. Salenger was handsome and
hospitable. Her long afternoon frock
was black. Mrs. Harold Bott, who
organised the party, wore the trigness of
navy, and sister Betty Brown trailed
chiffons in the new chartreuse green.
Mrs. Robert Dixson, Mrs. Frank Mc-
Dowell and Miss Rose Merivale were
a few of those who went home laden
with strawberries and cream. Mrs.
Salenger had donated a cargo of these
and then sold them for the cause.
Probably the happiest guest was the
winner of the tall doll dressed in crisp
white organdie. She has three small girls,
so for once Mistress Chance sent her
favor in the right direction. Phyllis
Arnott, in an ankle-length sheath of
black velvet, sang French and English
songs. Virginia Bassetti lifted her rich
contralto. Dulcie Blair’s violin had
haunting sweetness.
You were lucky if you had money
enough to pay your tram fare home on
Saturday after you had been to the
Springtime Fair in aid of the Anti-
Tuberculosis Association. It was held at
Fairwater, the home of the Fairfax lady,
and from eleven in the morning until six
at night the grounds were a scene of
animation and color. Just beyond the
terraces and lawns roses, stocks and
snapdragons bloomed in profusion. Very
gay were the stalls with their striped
awnings. They were arranged on the
lower lawn, while tea was served on
the terrace above. Very blue in the
sunshine was the uniform of the Aus-
tralian Royal Air Force band. Trouba-
dours played and sang as they strolled
down the garden paths. At the foot of
the garden parents stood at the low grey
stone wall and watched their children
race their ponies up and down the sands.
Small boys enjoyed directing, through
megaphones, the way to stalls and the
many astrologers. Business was brisk on
all fronts.
Lady Wakehurst came at three o’clock
and declared the fair open. Cool and
summery was her frock of blue and whilst
crepes ; her white sailor hat had a quill
on each side of its crown. The Hon.
Henrietta Loder’s navy frock had a
white embroidered linen panel running
from neck to hem. The plea of W. G.
Layton, president of the association,
that the sick among us be not forgotten
in this time of stress was endorsed by
W. J. Cleary. Other importants of the
afternoon were Mayoress Nock, presi-
dent of the fete committee, and Mrs.
W. J. Cleary.
Having made Sydney her friend,
violinist Jeanne Gautier is now enrich-
ing Perth with herself and her music.
During Cup festivities she will be
heard in the ballroom of Melbourne’s
Government House. She is booked to
play with the Symphony Orchestra when
Dr. Malcolm Sargent gives a de-luxe
audience a taste of his mettle. Miss
Gautier will be in Australia for the next
two or three months. Already her Syd-
ney friends and admirers are innumerable.
Last Thursday cars of many horse-
power pranced up Church Hill to the
Wentworth, and dozens of ladies climbed
it blithely under their own power. All
told, over 400 bridge-players settled down
to an absorbing afternoon. They were
in the Palm Court, and here, as the day
wore on, mannequins strolled with ease
and elegance before they stepped into
the ballroom, where further applause
greeted them. Round-faced, smiling
young nurses from the Hospice for the
Dying sold packets of sweets, all of which
were numbered, the lucky number wed-
ding a pair of silk stockings and the legs
of the purchaser.
Josephine Marks was the organising
secretary. The Fire Brigade Band played
in spirited style. Beach belles displayed
bathing suits and wraps in the new floral
effects. One of Jane Austen’s young
ladies might have worn the forget-me-
not blue tulle, with its off-the-shoulder
lace-edged bodice. Almost every evening
frock swirled to great fullness. One blue
taffeta was tucked from shoulder to
spreading hem. Boleros by day and night
seem to be fashion’s decree. All in
all, from the flower in the hat to the
button on the glove, the fashion display
was complete. President of the com-
mittee Mrs. M. J. Slattery and president
of the Fire Board T. J. Smith pulled
lucky numbers so happily they might
have been crackers at Christmas.
Dr. Halliday Sutherland, having rushed
off to Melbourne to get a front seat for
the Cup, Jesse Collings shone the lone
bright, particular star of the P.E.N. Club
dinner last week. This English writer
was touched to the quick when somebody
extolled Gloucester as the finest county
in England. “Well, I come from Devon
myself,” he demurred. He says he likes
Australians and the land we live in, and
he was debating whether to take his tall,
lean figure down to Melbourne for the
Cup. Sydney editors were guests, too.
Sydney Ure Smith, whose new maga-
zine “Australia” is drawing close to its
third issue, was very interesting on the
collection of modern art brought from
France by Keith Murdoch, of Melbourne
“Herald,” and now on its way to Sydney.
It will be shown in David Jones’s George-
street gallery, which is being lent in the
cause of culture. Winifred Moore, from
Queensland, was interested in poetess
Ella McFadyen’s work, and told her so.
Harry Green, of the Fisher Library,
brought his pretty daughter Nora. Mar-
jorie Quinn’s taffetas were rose-red.
Jeanie Ranken, Dora Payter and John
Preece saw to the circulation of guests.
Professor Sadler kept his surroundings in
a simmer of amusement. Novelists Vera
Dwyer and Winifred Birkett were there ;
so was Ethel Turner Curlewis, the ever-
popular.
The Sam Walder lady’s smile is radiant
these days, for the Red Cross concert
promises every day to be brighter and
bigger. The number of guinea seats
for this big public effort for the Red
Cross has had to be increased. That’s
the sort of thing that’s positive vitamins
to the president of any committee. The
attractive subject of this photograph is
an untiring worker, and to every one of
her helpers she gives 100 per cent, for
efficiency. For organiser Marie Burke
she has nothing but eulogy. Jim David-
son’s A.B.C. band, Marie Le Varre,
Lionel Lawson, the Sydney Male Choir,
the Comedy Harmonists, Lindley Evans,
Frank Hutchens and other stars will turn
the Town Hall into a place of laughter
and good cheer on November 17.
The produce stall alone took over
£lOO at the Gipsy Fair in aid of Gray-
thwaite, the Red Cross home for soldiers.
This fair is always held at the home, and
those of its inmates who are well enough
are wheeled out to enjoy the comings
and goings and the lively scenes that
are always a part of such money-spinners.
Voluntary aids formed the guard of
honor, and very cool and attractive they
looked as they waited for W. M. Hughes
to arrive and make the opening speech.
Over 1200 turned up to this fete, and
soon the recreation room was so filled
with eager money-spenders that late-
comers found it impossible to get near
the stalls. So they stepped out on to
the lawns, looked over at Cockatoo
Island and admired the view generally,
including the gaily-dressed young things
who were kept busy taking sixpences in
exchange for lucky numbers. Among
the notables of the afternoon were Dame
Mary Hughes, Mrs. Cecil Hordern and
Mrs. I. Bissendon. Miss Nellie Dibbs,
daughter of knight Thomas Dibbs, who
gave the home to the Red Cross, had
with her her three great-nieces, Moira
and Nancy Dunlop and Dawn Dibbs.
Sydney is the poorer by the death
of Mrs. James Ashton —widow of James
Ashton, and mother of the four
famous polo-playing brothers. It is for
her kindliness and friendly manner that
she will be remembered by her friepds.
From its earliest beginnings Mrs. Ashton
was a keen worker for the C.W.A., or
which she was one of the 11 honorary
life members, and the first president of
the metropolitan branch. Mrs. Ashton
had the imagination of the true or-
ganiser and the gift of being able to
carry through to a success any scheme
she undertook. The C.W.A. chukka
ball, now a permanent part of the polo
week festivities, owes its origin to her.
The first of these, held in 1924, brought
in £1260, which went a long way to-
wards buying Keera House, the C.W.A.
rest home.
Women journalists throughout Aus-
tralia grieve over the death of Brisbane
sister Mrs. W. Young. For many years
Mrs. Young was editress of the social
pages of the “Courier” and “Queens-
lander,” and resigned in order to take
up the position of Superintendent of the
Brisbane Domestic Science School. When
she reached the retiring age she still
wielded a facile pen', and wrote articles
for various newspapers. When women
journalists from other States visited Bris-
bane they always found a warm welcome
from Mrs. Young, who entertained them
at her pretty home, Riverview, Gallo-
way’s Hill.


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO MARGARET PAULINA VERLANDER
formerly of Bairnsdale Footscray and Wil-
liamstown.
TAKE NOTICE that your husband has in-
stituted proceedings against you for divorce
on the ground of your desertion of him for
three years and upwards. Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before
the Tenth day of November One thousand nine
hundred and thirty-nine and file your answer in
such office on or before the Seventeenth day
of November aforesaid the case may proceed
in your absence.
PAVEY, WILSON & COHEN, Collins
House, Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for
the Petitioner.
ESTATE BERTHA ESTELLA CAMPBELL.—
Would the children of the marriage of
GEORGE JOHN BURGESS and ELIZABETH
JANE STAINES, or anyone knowing their
whereabouts, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney?
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO ALPHONSUS ALFRED OWEN O’SHEA
formerly of Brisbane in the State of
Queensland but whose present whereabouts
are unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been
commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane by Writ of Sum-
mons No. 21 of 1939 by Dorothy O’Shea your
wife in which she claims a dissolution of her
marriage with you and by her petition filed
therein she alleges that on or about the third
day of March 1933 you without cause de-
serted her and have ever since continuously so
deserted her AND it has been ordered that
publication of this notice in each of the follow-
ing papers namely once in the Sydney “Bulletin”
published in Sydney in the State of New South
Wales and thrice in each of the following
newspapers namely the “Courier-Mail” and
the “Telegraph” both published in Brisbane
aforesaid and service of a copy of this notice
on John Patrick O’Shea of Seventh Avenue
Little Kedron Brisbane aforesaid shall be good
and sufficient service of the petition and the
writ of summons herein on you If you desire
to defend this action you must within thirty
days from the date of the performance of the
last act done in pursuance of the said order
as aforesaid enter an appearance at the Registry
of the said Court at Brisbane aforesaid AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that in default
of your so doing the plaintiff may by leave
of the Court or a Judge thereof proceed in
the action and judgment may be given against
you in your absence.
DATED this Twentieth day of October, 1939.
(1.5.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
Divorce.
TO LOYAL JOHN HANKIN formerly of
Roseberry in Tasmania Labourer.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife GWEN-
DOLYN HANKIN of Hurstville in the State of
New South Wales has filed a petition for
divorce in this Court against you on the ground
of desertion If you wish to defend the matter
you must enter an appearance at the Supreme
Court Registry Macquarie Street Hobart in
the State of Tasmania by December 4, 1939.
(L.s.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA.
Divorce.
BETWEEN HENRIETTA VIOLET COOPER
Petitioner
And CLARENCE ALFRED COOPER
Respondent.
TO CLARENCE ALFRED COOPER whose
last known address was Launceston in the
State of Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife has filed a
petition for divorce against you on the ground
of desertion AND TAKE NOTICE that
should you wish to defend the said petition you
must enter an appearance at the Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie
Street Hobart within thirty days after the
publication hereof.
(L.s.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
-Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 471 of 1939.
BETWEEN VIOLET MAY JOHNSQN (for-
merly Violet May Marshall) Petitioner
And VERREL HAZAR JOHNSON Re-
spondent.
TO VERREL HAZAR JOHNSON late of
Rockvale Road Armidale.
TAKE NOTICE that the said VIOLET
MAY JOHNSON has commenced a suit in
this Court and is applying for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-fourth day of January next
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-sixth day of October,
1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
MACKENZIE & BIDDULPH, Solicitors for
the Petitioner, Bradley Street, Guyra; by their
Agents, BIDDULPH & SALENGER, Solicitors,
174 Phillip Street, Sydney.
1 THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1230 of 1939.
ETWEEN ELIZABETH ANN McCULLOCH
Petitioner
And ROBERT McCULLOCH Respondent.
3 ROBERT McCULLOCH late of New-
cystic
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH
NN McCULLOCH has commenced a suit
jainst you in this Court and has applied for
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
:sertion for three years and upwards without
st cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
at you are required to enter an appearance
the said suit at the proper office of this
aurt on or before the Sixteenth day of Janu-
y next and in the event of your not doing
• within the time limited or obtaining further
ne the Petitioner will proceed and the suit
! heard and determined your absence notwith-
mding. Copy of the petition filed herein
ay be had on application to the undersigned
ee of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fifth day of October,
>39.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
ilicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Street,
ewcastle: by their Agents, N. CHERR i
TLLIS AND CORCORAN, Solicitors,
ssembly Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
Melboutnr
Chatter
Women are carrying their knitting
with them everywhere. At the Caulfield
Cup at least one foursome of steel
needles clicked in the members’ stand.
At meetings socks grow inch by inch.
At the Travellers’ Aid general meeting
in the Town Hall council chamber bails
of wool were escaping under the chairs
and civic couches ; and at the morning tea
at Menzies for discussion about the ice-
skating carnival to be held at San Moritz
on November 22 Mrs. A. R. Stewart
kept her needles twinkling while she
made a donation to start the lucky dip
off on its gallivanting, and Vi Tivey
progressed anklewards on a grey sock
while she put forward an original sug-
gestion or two.
The day on the ice will be in aid of
the M.D.N.S. and the After-Care Hos-
pital, also the society’s War Comforts
Fund. Mrs. Mortimer Robb, who had
a hand in pulling it off (clasped on the
way by Harry Kleiner, of San Moritz,
and his wife, who is on the carnival
committee), had some worries lifted from
her shoulders when she saw plans at the
meeting materialising satisfactorily. Mr.
Kleiner is arranging a programme to
interest skaters, good and bad, and spec-
tators who demand a spectacle’s worth
for their entrance money.
Moonee Valley Racing Club had all
the luck in the world with the weather
for the running of the Gold Cup. It was
hot enough for swimming, there was no
wind, and everybody raved over the
flowerbeds. Secretary B. S. Cox had no
doubt invoked the club’s joss in his most
persuasive manner. On the sloping lawn
Mrs. Alan Cooper was a noticeably well-
turned-out figure in her alliance of ice-
blue bolero and blouse to a slim black
skirt accompanied by a severe coiffure
and black sailor hat with blue attach-
ments. The Horsfall girls brought along
their usual contribution of color, Lorna
in a big red hat like a bonnet with embel-
lishments, Margaret in a palette print
and a black hat with a width of ribbon
as staple diet for the crown. Phyllis
Timmins’s frock was also of colors, mixed
to gladden the eye, and Mrs. Roy
Chambers repeated with her lilac gloves
the predominating shades in her figured
gown.
Among the men General Johnston
did his best with the greenest green hat
he has ever been game to buy. Mrs.
Goring O’Connell’s black and yellow
printed silk frock ran towards futuristic
designs, echoed in the yellow appliques
round the crown of her black hat. Mrs.
Ivor Manton brought along a souvenir
from Mexico (or perhaps just the South-
ern Seas) in her plaited straw hat and
matching satchel worn over the shoulder.
Win Kellow had a day of burgundy and
oatmeal,, spotted skirt on a burgundy
ground, plain off-white tunic and a large
straw hat to tone with the skirt. Nancy
Alderton’s ensemble of black and white
sheer included a full-length coat and pip-
ings of scarlet here and there. Mrs. J.
Rattey was the cause of a stir wherever
she went with her considerable slice of
luck on Mosaic at 50 to 1.
Garden City opened in pouring rain,
and the poor Lord Mayor got wetter than
he has ever been before on any civic
duty. Doggedly he proceeded with his
speech, the rain trickling down his neck
and making a soggy mess of his typed
notes. A couple of City Council pals
waggled an umbrella more or less over
his head, but nothing but a solid and im-
mobile roof would have been adequate
to the occasion. At the end of the longest
quarter of an hour in his memory he was
addressing damp and uninhabited open
spaces, nobody but one umbrella-holder
being then within earshot. Thus Cr.
Coles kept faith with his 15-minute audi-
ence over the air—but not with his tea
party. He made a getaway to change
his clothes, and left the cup-and-saucer
date to the rest of his civic brethren, by
then marooned with their friends in the
marquee. Towards the week-end the
weather improved, and a visit to the
transformed Treasury Gardens was no
longer a damp and dismal project.
The Red Cross will benefit consider-
ably from the gala night at the Princess
organised with much skill and prepara-
tion by Mrs. Barry Thomson and Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell. Bookings were excel-
lent, especially for the higher-priced seats,
and the drive after raffles, selling pro-
grammes and flowers was such that
everyone contributed. The liquid refresh-
ments were a useful source of revenue.
Downstairs it was a squeeze to get a
drink, but upstairs, with the bottle-neck
of the doorway, the job was all one with
getting money on in the ring five minutes
before the running of the Melbourne
Cup.
The final curtain came down at ten
past twelve, which by a few minutes beat
the long-distance record of “The Val-
kyrie” in the season of opera in English,
when Brunnhilde was still suspended on
her rock at midnight. The exhausted
gala-night audience, having missed its last
trams anyway, did the thing properly,
and cashed in on its drink tickets for an-
other hour into the morning, which, after
all, was a good thing for the charity con-
cerned.
The programme was varied, with some
very good and other very bad numbers.
Difficulties of organisation included ad-
justing several stars from the Tivoli
between Bourke-street and Spring-street.
John Brownlee had a broadcasting en-
gagement on the same evening, and
Strella Wilson also had a two-date night,
for it was her turn to play Nakomis in
“Hiawatha.” Feverishly removing her
Indian-squaw make-up at the Exhibition,
she must have wondered how she could
arrive on time, but as it happened the
encores had drawn out the Princess pro-
gramme. The Fire Brigade Band didn’t
get a look in with “Land of Hope and
Glory” until after midnight.
One of the busiest and calmest people
at the gala show was Miss E. Fraser,
who knew the box plan in her sleep and
who had charge of the programmes sold
by the usual bevy of beauty. Lord and
Lady Dugan brought their guests from
England, Lady Armitage and her
daughter Joy. Both tall and siim, and
obviously interested in their surround-
ings, these visitors suggest rather the
relationship of sisters than of mother
and daughter.
On Saturday Dr. and Mrs. T. J. K.
Whittam gave a coming-out dance for
their daughters Yvonne and Patricia at
their home Synagh (Yvonne’s portrait is
by Antoine), The young debutantes wore
similar frocks of ivory taffeta made in an
old-world style of boned corsages and
very full skirts. For the party they
received their first orchids, gifts from
their grandmother, Mrs. J. P. Ryan.
Dancing took place in two large recep-
tion-rooms and outside on the lawn,
where no one seemed to mind if the dew
damaged new silver slippers. The garden
was right in the party spirit with lanterns,
fairy lights and the glow of a full moon.
Lady Dugan paid a compliment to the
Travellers’ Aid at the society’s annua!
meeting when she said that its report
had drawn her away from an interesting
book on a Sunday afternoon for at least
one hour. The report is certainly a docu-
ment with human interest, and contains
much material that would be useful to
novelists and all fiction writers.
At the meeting Trevor Oldham was
in the chair, and W. H. Edgar,
a rosebud in his buttonhole, pro-
duced the balance sheet. A second
balance sheet dealing with the build-
ing fund of the new hostel was ex-
plained by a second treasurer, H. A.
Pitts (Miss K. H. G. Pearce is the fairy
godmother of the hostel). Among other
voices heard were those belonging to
Prof. Marshall Allan, Miss Byron Moore
and Rabbi Freedman. The learned rabbi
mentioned the society’s knack of solving
problems. Without getting flurried, it
finds anything for anybody —lost fiances,
husbands, babies, money, jobs, the night
trains at Spencer-street station, and, for
brides, the minister, the ring and the
cake. It hasn’t yet been asked to provide
the bridegroom, but no doubt it could
also manage that request.
In the Dickinson-Monteath portrait is
Rosemary Wright, who recently returned
from abroad with her parents, Lieut. -
Colonel and Mrs. F. H. Wright and
younger sister Patricia; her brother
Heathcote also shared in six months of
travel and is now in the U.S.A. On
the other side of the world the family
also linked up with the honeymooning
Marriotts (Mrs. Ron was Margaret
Wright, yet another attractive daughter),
who are expected back in Melbourne
early in November.
The Big Top is back again. Wirth’s
is in town, as it always is for the spring
racing, but for the first time since 1902
it is in Melbourne under canvas, the Gov-
ernment having commandeered Wirth’s
Olympia. For this season the circus is
in Batman-avenue, within coo-ee of the
Yarra and the railway yards. For an
evening of varied entertainment the
present programme can be recom-
mended. There are thrills in plenty up
among the rooftop trapezes of the Fly-
ing De Vards, a rare turn of comedy
as put over by the French Clowns, some
appropriate race-time fun when monkey
jockeys ride ponies over hurdles.
The barracking becomes fast and furi-
ous when four girls play basketball on
bicycles, a voice on the microphone
dividing them into two sides, N.S.W.
and Vic. Among the three Italian acro-
bats is one who waggles his muscles like
some people do their ears. In the pro-
cess his aesthetic attributes are nil, but
in action he would no doubt be a good
working model for med. students.
Already he has demonstrated for St.
John’s Ambulance classes. On the pro-
gramme also there are jumping dogs
who would give old man kangaroo a
good run for his money. Trick jockey
riding is “off” except as performed by
a young Melbourne lad, Ron Clarke,
but the lions still loom large on the
bill of fare. So do the elephants, garbed
in the grand procession in their mag-
nificent cloth of gold and velvet trap-
pings. Peanuts are still the favored food
of audiences.
Anyone who has a gift to put in an
airman’s- locker may leave it at the
R.A.A.F. Locker Fund Depot, estab-
lished this week at the Government Her-
barium in the Domain. There on ail
week days between 11.30 and 4 voluntary
helpers are in attendance to give infor-
mation, to issue knitting patterns and to
receive goods. Thus the Herbarium,
sacred to the germination of plant life, to
records of growth, to pictures of the pests
which thrive upon flora young and tender,
has yet another destiny shining through
its glass windows for the duration. The
Locker Fund city depot at Marchant’s,
156 Collins-street, still carries on.
Adelaide keeps its builders busy these
times. Having completed its enormous
Parliament House, it is about to alter
the sky-line with a new State Savings
Bank, opposite the Commonwealth
Bank, and a new Bank of N.S.W. on
the old site—-arguably the best in the
city. Also an Olympic swimming-pool,
on the most up-to-date lines, is well
under way nearly opposite Government
House. Also two very large though
quiet structures, in the deep red brick
now commonly accepted for that kind
of work, are going up on the flat behind
the Jubilee Exhibition, a new wing for
the School of Mines, and a new Botany
and Zoology building for the Univer-
sity. And there are two new theatres
in Hindley-street and a new stadium
in Grenfell-street.


With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality and
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONIC
TABLETS contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/0. Write
NOW for this amazing new
treatment.
T. JONES &, CO,,
CHEMISTS.
319 George St., Sydney.
sdf
Don't Suffer
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
II
lli
THE SERVICE MAN
Mars in the Mud.
“Ente Marid”: Winter is throwing its
cloak over Europe. In English squares
the sweepers are taking up the first matted
fall of leaves from the plane-trees. Among
the Surrey hills, not so long ago dry and
springy underfoot and filled with blue-
bells, the bracken is yellow and sodden,
the ground slushy, the beech woods
empty of their usual contingents of
walkers. The nights have closed in ; in
the north it is dark at four in the after-
noon.
Towns and villages along the Rhine
resound to the steady patter of seasonal
rain. In the mornings the rain is turned
to steamy mist thickened by the gases of
dozens of industrial towns. Imagine the
plain of the Nepean, near Sydney—the
French Champagne on the Sydney side,
the hills of Kurrajong on the German
side and a wide, deep river like the Bris-
bane between. Soak the landscape,
smooth it into an age-old
wornness, cultivate every
inch of the plain, fill both
plain and hills with spired
towns and villages and a
teeming population, drench
them for centuries with
blood and carve out two
great seams of fortresses,
one on each side of the
river, hundreds of feet
deep, labyrinthine in con-
volutions, and you have
something like a picture of
the scene of the Western
Front war of 1939.
Every inch of this coun-
try has seen war at least
a couple of times in every
century since time im-
memorial. Chalons - sur-
Marne, clustered round
its cathedral and its five
churches and its ancient
palace of the Counts of Artois, heard the
victorious yells of the Catalauni 1500
years ago as they put Attila’s legions to
rout. Its citizenry drove Henry iv.’s
English troops from the walls ; it saw the
Prussians sweep across the river, which
looks like a Darling Downs creek, in
1814, in 1870. It was a medley of the
soldiery of every nation on earth in the
Great War.
Verdun is 80 miles nearer Germany
on the great switchback road that goes
up and down across the French country-
side. St. Mihiel is a little further to the
south, and Rheims to the north. Bar-le-
Duc and many more old battlegrounds
crowd to the Rhine and beyond it. Some
of the French towns are no further from
German towns than North Brisbane is
from South Brisbane—Strasbourg sepa-
rated by its lange Briick’ from the Ger-
man post of Kehl. For generations the
Rhineland has sung:
In Strasbourg, in Strasbourg,
My son is lying dead.
But neither Germany nor France has
ever before seen a war like this. Its
manifestation is like the slow awakening
of a prehistoric monster. The earlier
armies that swept across here chose their
seasons, came with banners and renowned
leaders, moving away or lying dormant
when the rains came and the December
and January snow followed. In Christian
times, foes were often given safe con-
ducts to their homes at Christmas time.
This is a wallowing war, carried on by
troglodytes with giant machines, which
inch forward smashing and crushing,
dwarfing the human element. There are
no cherished leaders wedded to great
causes and movements; merely man-
agers, almost anonymous, of a mighty
business of slaughter. Even the breath-
less gallantry of the airmen and the
trench raiders has been buried under
official camouflage as thoroughly as the
snouts of the long-range guns which poke
their noses out of the foliage.
The flying squadron which raided Wil-
helmshaven is nameless. So thick is the
murk which surrounds the conduct of
battle in these days that the average man
does not even know what that squadron
looked like or how it went about its
business.
War, in fact, has become so mechan-
ised, so efficient, that it has almost de-
feated itself. It has become a contest
between the mightiness of man-made
things and the immense forces of Nature
and dynamics.
Given 50 rounds of ball and a
bayonet, the soldiers of Marlborough and
Napoleon could move forward even in
the rains. Sometimes they paused a day or
two to bake. Sometimes they pillaged their
rations from towns and fields. They took
their shelter in barns. They were so
unencumbered that they brought their
“Wot with 'Iiler, Stalin and the missus We'll lose this flamin' War!"
families, sometimes their household be-
longings. But in this war the armies in
their millions must hide from giant artil-
lery in the reinforced earth like super-
moles. They must be fed by immense
convoys.
A 12in. railway gun with its carriage
weighs over 200 tons. Its shell, without
the charge which drives it, weighs as
much as six men. A 15in. gun, with its
metal foundations, weighs 350 tons. It
fires a projectile as big as a man, weigh-
ing as much as 12 men, which strikes
with the impact of a large case-hardened
express train travelling at 80 miles an
hour. Even a machine-gun firing rifle
ammunition can let off up to six pounds’
weight of bullets in a minute.
Tanks have risen from lorry size to
Brobdingnagian affairs weighing up to 70
tons. With these immense machines mud
and rain and slough are the enemies of
movement. The aeroplane which can
power-dive at up to 44,000 feet a minute
—from Sydney Harbor Bridge to Parra-
matta in two minutes —is blind in fog
and mist. Only five hundred feet from
earth it is within less than one second
of obliteration.
Man himself, if he shows his nose out-
side a caisson, is ploughed into the earth
with the violence of an ant being smashed
by an elephant.
So the name of war on the surface of
the earth is stalemate. Aeroplanes in
battle areas, even in fine weather, move
warily, and are conserved against the
time when the beast may move. Ammu-
nition is husbanded like gold against some
day when a hurricane may break and the
product of months be spent in a few
hours.
Outside the fortress region ’planes may
still have their day—a day so terrible that
combatants hesitate to initiate it. When
it dawns there will be two kinds of war
in operation—the war of the pachyderms
on terra firma, the war of the snake
against the defenceless from the air and
under the sea. The latter seems to be
the only kind of war left in which for
the moment there can be any swift, sus-
tained movement. The wastage of full-
scale mechanical war is so terrific that it
can only be an affair of long lulls broken
by brief, isolated bursts of Blitzkrieg.
The War on the Seas.
“X.T.”: During the last fortnight
U-boats have been more active and de-
structive, and some of their commanders
have been up to the old fiendish 1915-18
tricks. Even passenger ships have been
sunk without warning, victims being left
to die horribly.
All the same U-boats are not going to
have the sort of run they had in the
last war unless Germany can build
a good deal faster than most naval
authorities expect. It may be possible
to turn the pests out in four months,
though the enemy’s recent ones have
normally taken six to eight months. In
the last war the first year’s operations
cleaned the seas of 24 U-boats, 25 were
accounted for in 1916 and 66 in 1917.
Their bag for four years was 11,189,000
gross tons, including ships lost by
neutrals. During the war Germany built
about 300 U-boats. So far, U-boat
losses in this war are reckoned at 20—
almost as many as in any Great War
year save 1917. Last week a sub. full
of German dead was washed up on the
Goodwin Sands.
It seems to be taken for granted that
two German pocket battleships, Deutsch-
land and Admiral von Scheer, are loose,
the Deutschland in the North Atlantic
on the old route of the Mowe and other
raiders in the last war. Mr. Chamberlain
has confirmed unofficial reports that it
was the Deutschland that sank the British
steamer Stonegate, and the same vessel
captured the U.S.A. freighter City of
Flint and convoyed her to Murmansk—
the Russkis gave the German prize crew
marching orders when Washington ob-
jected. And it is thought in London that
the Admiral von Scheer may be in the
Pacific or Indian Ocean. In that case,
we shall need something bigger than a
cruiser to deal with her.
The Admiral von Scheer’s main broad-
side weighs 48201 b. (1001 b. shells and
upwards), against 20481 b. in our largest
cruisers in the Pacific. Her war com-
plement is 300 more than the biggest
British or Australian cruisers ordinarily
on this side of the world. In speed the
Australia and the Canberra have an
advantage.
It is obviously a case for a repetition of
the Fisher-Sturdee manoeuvre, so mag-
nificently successful in the South Atlantic
25 years ago.
“T.”: Broken Hill is one place that
has taken the war seriously. It lost no
time in enlisting the special-service-force
quota assigned to it, and when the boys
left the Barrier for their S.A. camp the
whole town turned out to see them off.
Roads leading to the railway station were
blocked with traffic, flags flapped on the
station building, and the Citizens’ Band
played all the old spirit-stirring airs of
1914-18. The platform was tumultuous
with warriors embracing and being em-
braced, and as the train sped towards
the border volley after volley of cheers
pursued them into the night. And
this in a town which Sydney flappe *
papers are fond of picturing as a hopeie
haunt of Reds whose favorite recreation
is going on strike. Other country towns
soon had their specified number or
recruits, and showed them by every sign
that they were proud of them.
* * * *
“Private F'itzguzzlepipe”: What chance
have we coves in camp of getting decent
hand-knitted socks when the poor mis-
guided wenches who knit them for us
are led astray by Frith, of The Bulle-
tin? The damsel pictured by that artist
at her knitting marathon in B. 25/10/’39
is finishing off her sock at the top and
using long needles with heads on them.
If Frith had consulted his great-aunt, or
mine for that matter, she would have
told him what an ass he was not to
know that socks should be finished off
at the toe and knitted with short steel
needles pointed at both ends.
* * * *
“Zedo”: W. M. Hughes is enjoying a
sort of Indian summer as a visitor to mili-
tary camps. In Sydney veterans of 1914-
1918 decorated him once more with a
Digger hat, and the parades showed their
old-time informality with him. “What
about the wet canteen?” they asked him.
“Make a noise, boys, make a noise,”
croaked Little Billy. “Make as much
noise as you’ve just been making and
you’ll get your wet canteen.” And in
the cookhouses, to his yell of “How are
you all?” the answer came back in
chorus: “Broke, Billy broke but
honest.” Hats were a great asset to Billy
in the last war. I don’t know how many
were presented to him, but he always
used them to advantage. Once in a coun-
try town somebody presented him with a
cady about size which looked as if it
had been through Messines. As Billy
began to speak, half obscured by it, a
youngster interrupted proceedings with a
yowl like an air-raid siren. “What does
he want?” shouted Billy. “Doesn’t he
want to listen to me?” “No, he’s a
Digger’s kid. He wants your lid,” shouted
somebody. “Here, for God’s sake, fill
it with lollies and give it to him,” said
the P.M., swirling the trophy into the
crowd. That was worth more than any
speech.
* * * *
“Rastus II.”: No other naval vessels
have endured so much surgery as Aus-
tralia’s two old battle-cruiser friends
Renown and Repulse. They were laid
down in 1914 as modified Royal Sover-
eign battleships, but before they were
finished battle-cruisers were needed, so
the two ships were cut in halves and
lengthened by 170 ft. —to 794 ft. their
tonnage was put up to 26,500 and their
speed to 31.5 knots. They were launched
in 1916. While Renown was away in
Australian waters in 1920 Repulse was
shoved into dock to be given an extra
steel overcoat and new bulges at a cost
of £860,000. In the process she was
widened from 90ft. to 103 ft. In 1932
she went in again for another three
years’ overhauling on which £1,378,000
was spent. She got new propelling
machinery, a hangar for four aircraft
and enough extra armor to bring her
displacement to 32,000 tons. Then Re-
nown, which in the meantime had
brought the present George VI. to in-
augurate Canberra, went into Ports-
mouth Dock. She has been recommis-
sioned now with her superstructures re-
placed by modem tower bridges, re-
armored and rebulged, and with new
hangars and new funnels. Her speed
remains round 31.5 knots, and to all in-
tents and purposes she is a completely
modern ship. The job ran away with
£3,088,000, almost as much as she cost
to build.


There’s no “breaking-in” period with the
Packard. From the first time you use it, you
will always be smoothly, closely shaved —with-
out soap, water, blades or brushes! The
Packard saves its initial cost many times over
a period of a year or two.
• INSTANTLY ADAPTABLE—operates from
6- or 12-volt ear batteries or house-lighting
plants; also from 240-volt A.C. mains through
specially approved step-down transformer.
• SAFE AS A TELEPHONE—Electrically
approved.
• SMOOTH, ROUND CUTTING HEAD gives
close shaves.
O 1,000,000 HAPPY USERS vote Packard the
best shave at any price.
• Price, £4/19/6, including step-down trans-
former.
JOHN MARTIN"!
RADIO £' ELECTRICAL
SUPPLIES
116-118 Clarence Street., Sydney.
Telegrams: “Jonmar,” Sydney.
Telephone: 8W3109 (2 lines).
S'JJjM
Put the
“second”
hand on the
clock of communication
In the space of a split second,
the latest news flashes across
the world to you with clarity
and brilliance—when your
radio is re-valved with
m
z
Sealed for your protection
THE FLYING COLUMN
Convoys v. Aeroplanes.
“Auld Snootie’s Pilot”: The experi-
ence of the first German squadron to
attack a British convoy seems completely
to justify Admiralty policy in regard to
aircraft attack. Once air-raiders succeed
in getting at the merchantmen they
might do serious damage. But under
the convoy system they must first either
effectively bomb the escorting warships
or brave their fire.
The largest battleships are roughly
only 100ft. wide, and a destroyer of the
deadly Tribal class has a beam of only
34ft. To aim at that from the air while
travelling at 200 m.p.h. is like trying
to drop something on a knife edge. It
must be done under heavy shell and
machine-gun fire from ships and while
being harassed by defending aircraft
which, if they are of the Spitfire or
Hurricane types, are capable of deliver-
ing a stream of about 8000 shots a minute
with all guns going. The Kent class
cruisers carry eight 4in. AA guns—semi-
automatics which among them can de-
liver each minute 144 shells each weigh-
ing 311 b. and giving a wide area of
burst —four two-pounder pompoms—Boo
exploding shots a minute —and nests of
machine-guns each firing 500 or 600
bullets a minute.
The German squadron of 12 machines
which last week attacked a convoy in
the North Sea dive-bombed in flights of
three from behind the clouds. The con-
voy guns opened fire at intervals of
half an hour. The raiders made three
swoops. After the first they had to
contend with British air-fighters sent out
hurriedly from the English coast. Four
German ’planes were brought down and
survivors from three others were landed
in England and Denmark.
Attacks from the air against warships
proved ineffective even with large ships
lying at anchor at Rosyth.
Air Services.
“Aileron”: Air services have been dis-
located by the war. Dozens of British
civil machines have been commandeered
for troop transport and other war pur-
poses.
The Imperial lid. mail went by the
board at the outbreak of war. On war
routes, foreign civil companies have suf-
fered as severely as the British, but, out-
side routes across Europe, foreign ser-
vices have developed a strong advan-
tage which they are not slow to capi-
talise, especially in the Pacific.
Japan celebrated the outbreak of war
by the purchase of the first of the Doug-
“ Henry — you're NOT going without me!"
las D.C.4’s to leave the U.S.A. These
machines carry 42 passengers and would
be suitable for long routes anywhere in
Asia or Australia.
Uncle Sam, for his part, has increased
his Pan-Pacific air service subsidy—to
the Philippines. This must influence the
operations of the branch line to Auck-
land, since the two routes both take the
first 2000-mile step from San Fran-
cisco to Honolulu. The old rate, for 50
trips a year, was worth £412,000 Austra-
lian p.a. to Pan-American Airways ; the
new, £722,000 on direct subsidy. Under
the old scheme all payments received by
the company from Australian and other
“foreign” Governments were deductible
from the subsidy; under the new, the
company keeps the amounts.
Meanwhile, though machines will be
short at our end, surveys of the Maori-
land-Fiji route are proceeding. Recently,
Aotearoa made a flight to Tongatabu. It
would be a good thing if the Common-
wealth, M.L. and Canadian Govern-
ments put their heads together and began
to map out arrangements for a future
all-Red service from Sydney to Canada.
It might come in useful before long.
“C.A.R.”: Eight Canadian - made
bombers have been flown to England
from their homeland. A fine achieve-
ment, and an excellent advertisement for
the training scheme which is likely to
see the expenditure of about £400,000,000
Australian in the northern Dominion and
the turning out of about 50,000 trained
men, Canadian, Australian and British.
About £216,000,000 is to be spent in
Canada on aerodromes and equipment
alone, of which Britain is expected to
find half, Canada one quarter and Aus-
tralia and M.L. one quarter. With its
superior climate, lack of blizzard winters
and magnificent human material, Aus-
tralia should have had a lion’s share of
that business. Mr. Fairbairn, who is to
represent us at the Montreal conference,
which will settle the details, should be
told to press Australian claims. The
idea of this continent spending some
tens of millions building up another
Dominion’s air facilities isn’t palatable.
There is still considerable shortage of
ground men in the R.A.A.F. and volun-
teers for service at home or abroad have
been called for. About 540 are needed by
November 26 —fitters, transport drivers,
cooks, stewards, messmen, clerks and
storemen. On October 30, 60 men were
sent for training to Richmond (N.S.W.),
and the plan is to put a similar quota
into camp every Monday. Fitters and
ground technicians in general are most in
demand. They need not necessarily have
ground engineers’ licenses. Men who
have served apprenticeships or done nine
or ten years’ work on petrol engines will
fill the bill.
# • *
“Zedo”: Two young Yankees have set
a light-plane record of 495 i hours’ non-
stop —over three weeks in the air with-
out a break. Impressive in the same way
that roller-skating, pole-sitting and other
such records are impressive, but not
otherwise. Given fine weather and effi-
cient fuelling, the job depends not so
much on skill as on the staying power of
man and engine. The long-distance
records which count are not those made
by machines whirling round on a beaten
track through the clouds, but those that
stay up long distances from point to
point. And, bar a new type of engine
and a new type of fuel, the chances of
much improving that sort of record for
light machines are not rosy.
* * * *
“Marija”: The new design for an
R.A.A.F. badge is a neat adaptation of
the R.A.F. example. The crown is on
top of a circle bearing the words “Royal
Australian Air Force,” a sprig of wattle
replacing the laurel. The eagle is a
wedgetail. Below in a scroll is the motto
Per ardua ad astra.
“Propeller”: “Aldis” (B. 25/10/’39) was
in a flat spin when he wrote that “during
the last war the observer might be air-
gunner in the back seat of D.H.9’s, 9As
or Bristol Fighters, in control of Morse
communication for artillery shoots and
in contact patrol work for attacking
troops on the ground.” It was the pilot
who carried out the duties of wireless
operator, with a half-inch gap to his
sending key to prevent engine vibration
throwing in an odd dot or dash. The
observer was solely an air-gunner; a
good one was fully occupied watching
for enemy aircraft and in particular for
their favorite pastime a dive attack
on the tail. I had an observer who
went to sleep on the job one afternoon
when I was doing a shoot over Henen-
court. He woke up to see a Fokker
“tripe” sliding down on our tail. First
I knew of Fritz’s visit was when Spandau
slugs tore the altimeter out of the in-
strument panel. Slow S-turns got us
out, and from that time onwards my
observer was a good air-gunner. Too,
I’ve yet to meet the observer who put
in 2000 hours of active-service flying.
A good average log for pilot or observer
in the 1914-18 scrap was 350 hours a
year.
* * * *
“Aileron”: British ’planes seem to be
proving themselves decidedly superior in
this war. German machines have been
something of a mystery, and their repu-
tation has depended hitherto largely on
propaganda. However, one of the
vaunted Messerschmitts, which have been
bogeys to all European air forces, came
down in France and proved to have only
four guns against the eight carried by
Hawker Hurricanes, and Spitfires. In
combat, there has so far been no indica-
tion that the Germans have anything on
us in speed. But too much cannot be
taken for granted. A secret fighter which
falls down in enemy territory only a few
miles from its own lines through “fuel
shortage” has a suspicious smell about it.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Seven of the German
bombers that tackled a British convoy
in the North Sea on October 21 failed
to return. Apropos, in an address de-
livered to the Engineering Section of
the British Association shortly before
the outbreak of war, H. E. Wimperis,
sometime president of the Royal Aero-
nautical Society, and technical adviser
to the Commonwealth Government,
quoted a German, S. T. Possony, as
forecasting a monthly loss of 25 p.c.
to 30 p.c. of aeroplanes. Possony sug-
gested that Germany should budget for
“complete replacement of its air force
three or four times in the year.” He
estimated a yearly requirement of 70,000
bombers and 130,000 fighting ’planes.
The German admitted that, because of
the exceptional types of men required
and the heavy losses, air forces cannot
be greatly increased “no State could
man at one time more than 20,000 aero-
planes and tanks.”
* * * *
“Aileron”; The Yankee “March of
Time” movie devotes its current yell to
aerial defence, chiefly of the U.S.A. The
impression conveyed from casual pictures
of British and French ’planes is that
these effete nations have some sort of
a ramshackle flying service, while Uncle
Sam’s fa.ir land fairly whizzes with
mighty aerial engines of devastation. The
25-ton flying fortresses of which Uncle
Sam has a round dozen are solemnly
held up as the world’s greatest—there are
a few machines in Europe that could
more than give them a run for their
money—and otherwise it seems that Uncle
invented the whole science of aerial de-
fence. In all this, there are some good
laughs for those who know their history.
Nobody thought of flying fortresses till
Britain produced the Perth type a decade
or so ago. But the best joke is a solemn
assurance that Gahd’s Own Country has
the world’s finest stock of pursuit ’planes,
which provide “the greatest and best
method of defence” against attack on in-
dustrial and crowded areas. Until a
couple of years ago, every Yankee jour-
nal roared with laughter whenever pur-
suit ’planes were mentioned. Pursuit
’planes were held up in Yankeeland as
the great British joke of the air. Then
some popeyed U.S.A. pilot in authority
saw some British manoeuvres. Within
a few months the world was being lec-
tured on a new technique which aces had
discovered all by themselves at Buffalo
or somewhere.


REVOLUTION IN THE KITCHEN!
AGA makes a
"Declaration of Independence
■ WM
HI
-
n
r%
‘‘Mummy, who told you about AG A?”
7 told Daddy, honey.”
•
/■'•OOKING tyranny is a thing of the past—a new era is established
' an AGA Cooker enters the kitchen.
once
AGA, the independent cooker, cuts out gas and power
bills and makes cooking a pleasure. AGA works day
and night at a cost guaranteed not to exceed £3 per
year (with coke at 30/- a ton) The AGA fire never
goes out —you can have meals at any hour —even baked
breakfast dishes, because oven temperatures are always
maintained; and meals can be kept hot indefinitely.
It is truly a cooker that you can “fill and forget.”
AGA, the ever-ready, money-saving cooker, is used in
thousands of homes, hospitals and institutions through-
out the World. You can own an AGA, too. Send, with-
out obligation, for a copy of the AGA booklet R.ll.
No increase in price while present stocks last.
LEVIN & CO. LTD
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
JkOrigind^katStmm
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
(Estab. 1852), Inc. in N.Z. 45 King Street, Sydney;
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Wellington, N.Z.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . SOO watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts |
St. George’s Hue., St. George’s Tee., Perth
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Fife Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE Al
MINIMUM COST"
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Black Brother in Queensland
“X.T.”: Queensland has the sanest
native control in the Commonwealth.
Veteran J. W. Bleakley, a long, thin Corn-
stalk, has now 12,200 full-bloods for
wards, of whom 5399 are female and
1650 nomadic. About 3700 are in regular
employment, 5760 in supervised camps
and 1060 dependent on employees. Added
to these are 6461 half-castes. Church
missions care for 4500 natives, Govern-
ment settlements for 3000. There was
an actual increase in both full-bloods
and half-castes last year.
No aboriginal in Queensland ever
wants for a job. In the Gulf country
there is always a keen demand for boys
of 14 or 15, because at that stage they
can be trained to become capable and
steady stockmen. Thursday Island fleets,
apart from native seamen, give work to
2200. The department watches carefully
the payment of wages, and patrols all
pastoral districts in which large numbers
of Binghis are employed. There is also
a system of country protectorates with
local protectors.
Abos. in Queensland are not only paid
when employed—they are covered by
workers’ compensation, and there is
always a fair annual bill for medical
attention. Earnings are controlled, and
all those in work have savings-bank
accounts —about a third of all blacks and
half-castes under departmental control
own bankbooks, and their average sav-
ings are £l5 a head. The trust accounts
held on behalf of abo. settlements and
protectorates which take care of indivi-
dual welfare, including savings, were in
credit £242,000 on December 31.
Crime scarcely exists. Out of 63 con-
victions last year 54 were for drunken-
ness. Health generally is good. Mass
dosage for hookworm is carried out twice
a year. Malaria incidence is light, and
there was “little to report” last year
regarding venereal disease.
The natural-increase rate is low, but
so it always has been in primitive life.
The three model settlements of Cher-
bourg, Palm Island and Woorabinda
score best. Their birthrate —34.4 per
1000 of population —is considerably
above white level, but their deathrate
is heavy—3o per 1000. In mission com-
pounds the birthrate last year was 31
and the deathrate 45. There was a severe
epidemic of whooping-cough.
Cherbourg, in Central Queensland, is
the best of the settlements. Natives \here
are not faced with the distractions of the
tourist trade as at Palm Island. Recently,
having finished their school, the Cher-
bourg boys have built and equipped their
own workshop, and about 30 youngsters
receive technical instruction in metal- and
leather-work. Palm Island goes in for
beekeeping, forestry and vegetable
gardening. The beekeepers make their
own hives and changing cabinets.
In Torres Strait islands, abo. indus-
tries had a turnover of £28,000 in 1938.
At Badu they have a boatbuilding and
tinsmithing department, under a native
foreman, which repaired 16 luggers, built
21 new dinghies and repaired 35 last year.
They make their own stretcher beds and
school furniture, have their own plumbers
and do extensive sanitation work, and a
women’s section makes everything from
clothing to mattresses and dinghy sails.
Cherbourg natives have water laid on
to all their houses, and have built a vil-
lage bathhouse with 12
showers for men and 12 for
women, together with wash-
houses and a sewerage sys-
tem. They run their own
sawmill and blacksmith’s
shop.
All Government settlements
own stock, in which Jacky
Jacky takes great pride. Cher-
bourg had 370 calves for
branding this season —they
run to Herefords.
Only the school is fully run
by whites except for native
monitors and monitresses.
At Woorabinda, where
sports are encouraged and
Friday afternoon is given
over to cricket and football
the natives hold the pennant
from the local white State
school at both games. There,
only one white teacher rules,
assisted by colored monitors.
Palm Island Scouts sent a
native assistant Scoutmaster
to Sydney in 1938.
Altogether, the department
has a record unequalled else-
where in Australia. It has its
difficulties and makes mis-
takes, but its policy is sound.
“Zedo”: Our Director of
Native Affairs in the North-
ern Territory has 17,000 abos.
to care for, and the bulk
of them are bush blacks.
In New Guinea he had the
care of half a million natives.
He proved himself a very good man in
that territory, but he has had no experi-
ence with Australian abos., and is too
old to master aboriginal tongues —
those strange languages are for
youth to learn. In India a district officer
—always a university man, a scholar
in at least one Oriental language and
an authority on intricate local law and
lore, having had many years’ experience
—is considered lucky if he earns a
thousand a year for managing a million
people or so. Our man gets £l2OO. The
salary of the chief medical officer is
£1067. He acted &s Protector, besides
carrying out his medical duties.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The Kennedy Regiment, which
flourishes in N.Q. and which was about
the first in the Empire outside Britain to
be sent on active service in the last war,
must have strong claims to be the pioneer
white volunteer corps of battalion
strength raised in the tropics. Its genesis
goes back to the Russian scare of ’B5,
when Townsville’s defences consisted of
a single ancient muzzle-loader and a very
whiskery battery of Garrison Artillery.
Lt.-Colonel Blaxland’s call to a meeting
to form the regiment brought large
crowds of volunteers. Within a few days
they were drilling. Companies were
formed in Charters Towers and Ravens-
wood, and in next to no time the force
was off to camp armed with ancient
Sniders. It is a good job they did not
have to fire them seriously in anger. After
five volleys with the old Snider shoulder
casualties on the firing side were about
100 per cent. They kicked like Brisbane
ratepayers.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Apart from Antarctica,
where lies the most desolate area on the
earth’s surface? Most citizens would
vote the Sahara. But really the much
publicised Sahara is populous and well
watered compared with parts of Aus-
tralia. Others might tip the Simpson
Desert. But the comparatively small
Simpson is suburban lawn when set
against the vast area that extends north-
wards up the W.A.-S.A. border from the
Rawlinson Ranges nearly to Hall’s Creek.
Crossed only twice by Warburton near
its northern edge in 1873, then right up
through the centre by Carnegie in ’96,
this utter desert was glimpsed by writer
and others early in this century. Its
weirdest mystery is the immensity and
“Them subs . Wont take ME by surprise
regularity of its sand ridges. Hundreds
of miles of them, all running east and
west. Averaging four to the mile and
ranging up to 100 ft. at the crests, they
would look from an aeroplane like some
mammoth field ploughed by a race of
giants. On and on their furrows range
endlessly. From aloft, too, they might
appear green and inviting, for Nature has
performed the miracle of clothing them
—in tinder-dry, seemingly-lifeless spini-
fex. Ants, flies, an occasional lizard and
perhaps an odd tiny kangaroo-rat —such
is their fauna. Yet there are humans there,
perhaps one inhabitant to the 1000 sq.
miles. Gaunt, hungry, ever-thirsty
blacks. Driven into the wilderness ages
ago by more warlike tribes, they exist
where sand in the summer heat cripples
the camel, tortures through the leather
sole of a boot. How do they find water?
* * * *
“Murlonga” says farewell:
A good old cattleman crossed the range when
Walter Rose went west from Brisbane. He
had led a hard life, working his way out to
the furthest edges, and he knew the back
country as few men did, handling ’em big in
all classes of horse and cattle work. Though
hard of hearing always, on a cattle camp, in
a yard, among the stock he loved, the old
boy could pick up a whisper or tell by the tone
of a lowing beast just what was doing. His
last few years, unfortunately, were clouded
by failing vision.
Station manager, big-gun drover, large buyer
for the meatworks, old Walter shone at all of
them. His pet property was Roxbrough, on
the Georgina, which he managed about 40
years ago. His big droving feat was about
’O7, when he brought in 1500 Lissadale bul-
locks. For the Q.M.E. he bought upwards of
16,000 cattle from one group of stations on the
Barkly Tableland one year. As a horse-lover
and -breeder old Walter’s name was known
from one end of the State to the other.
Somewhat self-centred, through his deafness,
when encouraged to talk he was entertaining to
a degree, with a wealth of outback knowledge
possessed by few. And game! I was with him
one day when the mare he was riding dealt
a pretty fair hand. Walter rode her for a
bit; then she reared over on top of him.
When the mare rose to her feet Walter mounted
her again. Work was his hobby; horses were
his love; and The Bullenteen (as he would
persist in pronouncing it) was his Bible.


asdf
York Minster.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
don to Edinburgh, 393
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to —
BURNS, PHILP AND CO.jtLTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Aset. Gen. Manager.
WALTHER & STEVEMSOM E«:|
395 CEORCE ST SYDNEY I
SPECIALISTS
IN
COWBOY SADDLERY
£l3/10/-
DOUBLE RIGGED.
Three-quarter rigged, with one cord
cincha, 15/- less. This is a very
popular line, quite equal to saddles of
the same class made in U.S.A. It is
made of brown leather, without fancy
stamping, and the seat and cantle are
in one piece of heavy leather.
Weight, about 281 b.
Freight paid in N.S.W. for cash with order.
Cowboy Bits, Spurs, Bridles,
Chaparajos, Tapaderos, etc.
ds
Who
pays
them
? after
youre
yone?
Should you die suddenly,
would your wife and family
be able to settle the numerous
monthly bills and balance the
budget?
YOU CAN SECURE THEIR
FUTURE
• . . , whatever happens
Assure your life with the
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Dead Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane.
Wingello House. Angel Place. Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
It. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England , travel
one Way via “The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAYILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply L.ocal Agents any capita] city.
J=z <EE-
m
dcin^z:
v
k.
iS
V Jfe-^
T f
%
3&
NATIONAL SECURITY (MONETARY CONTROL)
NATIONAL SECURITY (SECURITIES)
CUSTOMS (OVERSEAS EXCHANGE)
EMERGENCY
REGULATIONS
The Bank of New South Wales is an agent authorized
to arrange the transaction of all oversea business
controlled under the above regulations.
The general public as well as clients of the Bank
of New South Wales are invited to ask for the
Bank's pamphlet which reviews and explains the
provisions of these regulations. Copies of the
pamphlet are available at all branches.
BANK
OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
517 A. 1939
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
G.T.: You strike a wistful note, but don’t
strike it hard enough P.C.W.: A frail frag-
ment... .P.P.: Keep singing... .L.M.: “Going
South” goes west... .P.F.: Try a women’s
paper... .D.F.: “The balmy air is everywhere.”
Have you ever known it not to be? T.G.M.:
Flat... .G.G.: We don’t reprint J.S.: “Ani-
mation” is just what it lacks... .P.D.M.: It
may be good advice but it’s dreadful verse....
F.W.8.: Can’t assist... .C.A.: “The Place
Where the Old Horse Died” is wet with our
tears C.K.P.: Leave it to Yeats... .E. 1.:
Their only novelty is their jerkiness E.K.:
Elsewhere, perhaps A.A.8.: No J.S.L.:
Pleasant; that’s all J.E.J.: Just misses
K.H.H.: All thin J.C.G.: Something there.
... .N.D.H., W.A.M., C.MacL., J.A.8.,
W.J.G.: The war’s a large subject... .G.8.L.:
You should be able to put 6000 words to much
better use... .G.F.R.: Neat, but slight
J.S.F.: Dry “Desert”... .R.C.8.: Poor tinder
for “the spark of inspiration” 8.T.R.:
Dorothy Dix could offer a better solution
V.T.: Fitful... .C.T.J.: Basketed with other
such stale eggs... .L.T.D.: The people are all
right, but they don’t move C.T.N.: Try
again with a new finish L.D.T.: Half our
time is taken up with “Interludes” 8.G.T.:
The title booked it a return passage
H.T.S.: A glimmer; come again... .L.P.Y.:
Just a yarn H.F.F.: “The Good Oil” won’t
grease our palms L.L.: “As so much smoke
’e faded,” and as so much smoke ’e goed
N.T.E.: Why?... .C.8.R.: He should see print
some day, P.T.C.: Missed... .C.8.E.: Heard
that one with our fairy tales.... L.H.W.: Half
our acquaintances seem to have had exactly
the same “Experience with the Supernatural.”
B.F.E.: “Gunner Jones” hasn’t got our
range... .P.E.W.: Your idea of the trial-and-
error system seems to be to try us with your
errors... .C.R.L.: Just doesn’t click F.N.:
A wearisome love story S.A.C.: Dodged
“the onward rushing force of circumstance”
and! went out for a schooner T.H.: Faltering.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.M.: We fed the swimmer to our tame shark.
W.J.L.: Ideas got within a few yards of
acceptance but the drawings lagged miles be-
hind... .8.5.: Gent, who wanted a milk shake
was given the bird... .P. 8.: It might have
caused a riot in the nursery but it got a chilly
reception here... .R.8.H.: Sent to the concen-
tration camp for hackneyed war cartoons
8.Y.: The riding master’s nightmare was mild
compared with the one we suffered... .P.W.:
The turn of events made that effort out of date
before it reached us... .8.J.: No sparkle to the
idea and the sketch is drab A.A.: We’ve
seen its twin previously F.W.C.: The centen-
arian is only twice as old as the gag J.M.:
Figures appear to have been made out of
fluted candles, then left in front of a fire....
P.H.: The hour-by-hour adventures of the
married couple do not lend themselves to
illustration... .J.E.8.: You should do better.
....P.A.C.: Nothing like Roosevelt and
nothing like Adolf A.M.S.: Not in the
market for head studies of that kind D. 8.:
You proved a false prophet F.C.N.: We’re
still counting the mistakes... .A.S.H.: You’ve
been visiting too many waxworks.... T.T.: Get
more punch into your drawings... .N. 8.:
What you think is a short-cut will more
likely turn out to be a dead-end G.R.: The
soapbox was not so bad but the orator left
a lot to be desired N.J.: Why must you
draw hands that look like meat h00k5?....
H.M.A.: Misfits, every one of them
R.W.H.: They found a resting place in the
w.p.b P. 8.: A mangled and grimy effort.
BOBBY KNOPWOOD
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
y~| LMOST if not quite the most
f \ picturesque of Tasmanian pioneers
I was the Rev. Robert Knopwood,
Van Diemen’s Land’s first chap-
lain and most famous cleric.
His quaint journals are in the Mitchell
Library at Sydney, and Mabel Hookey’s
biography of him is there also, and is
one of the best of the modern records
of old colonial worthies. “Against the
background of the half-forgotten days
of early Tasmanian history,” she says,
“the vivid personality of ‘Bobby’ Knop-
wood stands with peculiar clearness.
Genial, hospitable and kindly, with a
ready hand for those who needed help
and a ready oath for those who angered
him, he typifies a class now passed away
—the hard-riding, sport-loving parson of
the eighteenth century those jovial
‘three-bottle’ days, when cockfighting
was a fashionable sport, duelling was in
vogue and the phrase ran ‘To swear like
a lord.’ ”
The Rev. Bobby was the last of an old
Suffolk family. He went to Cambridge,
graduated and became a parson and then
the heir to an estate of £90,000. He made
the money fly, and received every assist-
ance in doing so from the Prince Regent
and his circle. Having cleaned him out
at the card-tables, they were considerate
enough of their victim to get him a Royal
Naval chaplaincy—no very great prize in
those days.
Knopwood served in various men-
o’-war, and, when Lieut.-Colonel David
Collins set out for this country to found
a colony on Port Phillip or in V.D.L.,
accompanied the expedition as its
spiritual shepherd. The rest of his life
is told in his diaries for such as have
patience enough to decipher them.
Tasmania still tells stories of Bobby
Knopwood. Once he was delivering a
sermon in the village schoolhouse at
Rokeby, and his white pony, nearly as
celebrated as its owner —and his dog
Pincher —was visible to the preacher
through an open window. In the middle
of the discourse the sleepy congregation
was suddenly awakened by a howl of
rage from the pulpit: “Damn that pony
of mine; he’s loose again!”
Another time, on a wet Sunday, he
found no one in the church but three
co . n Y lctS} whom he flatly refused to
mmister. I have preached, he said,, to
Governors and to —enumerating various
dignitaries _- but rve never yet preached
three convict sto nebreakers, and I’m
damned if r m going to begin now!"
Like his NS s w contemporary Sam
Marsd Bobby was pret t/handy with
he cat .i'. nine / tai i s h j s magisterial
capacity; but he Was „. t a hard-hearted
man even jj be d j d on occasion tell a
pria J ner ‘ whom he had undeservedly
flogged that the punishment would “do
for “ ext time ... ft, diary reveals this
-Thursday, 25th.-This morning very
me j ancbo ] y having very little rest
on acco n n t of wha f was takc lace
The execution o£ the thre<i> P W m.
Stephens, Thos. Smith and George
K irby. j was with them early in the
mor n, and with his Honour the Lt.-Gov.
Came home. Mr. Mitchell breakfasted
wdb me. j then waited on his Honour
the Lt.-Gov. with a petition from the
officers and inhabitants of the settlement
to have the lives of the two young men
saved .
“j then went to the prisoners and
administered the sacrament to them, and
Morley the murderer attended. At half
past 11 they were taken to Hunter’s
Island, where all the military and people
of the colony attended. After praying
some time I took my leave of them, and
when Major Mackenzie read the warrant
f or execution, the two boys were re-
prieved and Stephens left for execution,
“I returned home, where the two boys,
Thos. Smith and George Kirby, were, and
all the prisoners. I had them all in the
room, and had them return thanks to
Almighty God for His goodness in spar-
ing their lives, and likewise all the people
prayed. I received the thanks of every-
body for my attention to the prisoners.”


CORNS .
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all vou need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors—James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ;
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A.
With offices at London, rJSS
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction “
OurServiceDepartment
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The serviceTs entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand. .
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Experienced Bulletin contributor will type
MSS., check quotations and English, give
advice, etc. Prompt replies.—slo7.
Words of verses “How the Sailor Rode the
Brumby” and “A Bushman’s Farewell to
Queensland.” —5067.
Words of parody on “Dangerous Dan Mc-
Grew” and words of nonsense verse “The
11.69 Express.”—slo6.
Books or magazines giving accounts of
Batieff’s “Chauvre Souris.” —4944.
To buy or borrow photographs of sailing
ships Damascus, Aiolus, Glen Osmond, Darra
and Abercarne. Every care taken. —5102.
Information Sought.
(1) When was payment of members of the
N.S.W. Legislative Assembly first introduced?
(2) Amount? (3) Subsequent changes? (4)
What stamp allowance does each member re-
ceive ? (5) Salary of the (a) Speaker, (b) the
Chairman of Committees, (c) the Leader of
the Opposition ? —5091.
(1) September 21, 1889. (2) £3OO p.a. (3)
September, 1912, £5OO p.a.; November, 1920,
£B7O p.a.; July, 1922, £6OO p.a.; July, 1925,
£875 p.a.; April, 1930, £744 p.a,.; August, 1931,
£706 p.a.; December, 1932, £670 p.a.; July,
1938, £875 p,a. (4) £3O p.a. (5) (a) £1675 p.a.,
(b) £lll5 p.a., (c) he receives an annual allow-
ance of £250 in addition to his allowance as
member.
* * # *
(1) Meaning of Parramatta? (2) When was
Parramatta first settled? (3) When was it given
its present name? —5105.
(1) It is usually said to be an aboriginal
word meaning “eels sit down,” and eels are
still to be found in the river there. Elizabeth
Macarthur, however, writing in 1795, said the
name meant “head of a river.” (2) Phillip
opened a settlement in the district on Novem-
ber 2, 1788, which he named Rose Hill, after
George Rose, a secretary of the British Trea-
sury and friend of William Pitt the younger.
(3) June 4, 1791.
* * * ' *
Can crocodiles be profitably caught for their
hides by (1) nets, (2) shooting, (3) trapping, (4)
poisoning? (5) What size crocodiles have the
best hides, and are skinning and curing difficult ?
(6) Prices and prospects of making a living at
the game? —sl22.
(1) Nets have been used, but their heavy
cost and time and labor involved in shifting
them to fresh positions would spoil all hope of
a beginner making a living at the game. (2)
Shooting is best —quickest, least laborious and
least expensive. But a man must be a dead
shot; he will get very few targets per day.
(3) Crocodiles are trapped when an occasional
order comes in for a zoo, but a man needs
to be an expert to make a living that way.
(4) By poisoning the skin is often' lost. (5)
Crocodiles up to 7ft. in length have the m<pst
suitable hides for commercial purposes. Skin-
ning is slow work and the hides are difficult
to cure. (6) The price of skins depends entirely
on fashion. At present it would be difficult
for any but the most experienced man, who
already has a market, to make a living.
* * * *
(1) What opportunities are there for a youth
with a leaning towards map-drawing? (2)
What training is necessary to enter the profes-
sion, and what subjects should he concentrate
upon? (3) Who are the principal employers
of map-draughtsmen? —5129.
(1) Rather better than in the average of
skilled occupations. (2) The only practicable
sort of training is to serve as a cadet to a
Government department employing geographical
or survey draughtsmen, or an apprentice to
one of the private map-publishing firms. (3)
Government departments.
* * * *
(1) Where to apply for a position as light-
house-keeper in N.S.W. ? (2) Qualifications.
(3) Is preference given to returned soldiers or
sailors provided they are qualified? —5126.
(1) Deputy-Director, Navigation and Light-
houses, Customs House, Circular Quay, Sydney.
(2) Knowledge of flag-signalling and of Morse
code for night signalling, and of boating experi-
ence; applicants must have served at sea as
A. 8., or have previously been employed on
lighthouse duties. (3) Yes.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning Gandhi?—
5165. , , .
Born October 2, 1869, he was educated at
Rajkot, Bhavnagar, and London, and practised
law in Bombay, Kathiawar and South Africa.
During the Boer War and the Zulu revolt in
Natal he was in charge of an Indian ambulance
corps, and during the Great War of 1914-18
he raised an ambulance corps and conducted
a recruiting campaign in Kaira district. He
started and led the Satyagraha movement (1918-
19) and the non-co-operation campaign (1920)
in addition to associating himself with the
Khilafat agitation (1919-21), and has cham-
' pioned the cause of Indians abroad, notably
those in South and East Africa. Sentenced to
six years’ imprisonment in March, 1922, he
was released two years later. He was president
of the Indian National Congress in 1925.
In 1930 he inaugurated a campaign for breach
of the salt laws, was interned in May of that
year and released the following January. In
1931 he was delegate to the Round Table
Conference. The next year he again served
two short terms in prison and began his cam-
paign on behalf of the untouchables. In. 1934
he retired from active leadership of Congress,
but his influence is no less powerful in Indian
affairs.
* * * *
Figures showing foreign trade between Russia
and those countries which sell her most of her
imported goods ? —5147.
Latest figures are for 1937 and were as fol-
lows (in thousands of. roubles) :• Great Britain,
imports from 191,922, exports to 566,145;
Germany, 200,501 and 107,658; United States,
244,305 and 134,412; Belgium-Luxemburg,
67,320 and 129,756; Netherlands, 105,290 and
111,888; Iran, 84,780 and 91,730; Japan, 54,375
and 11,743; Turkey, 28.630 and 33,809; Mon-
golia, 33,694 and 65,822; Spain, 22,728 and
92,444; France, 28,311 and 87,255; China,
40,732 and 35,276; Canada, 54,936 and 4240.
* * * *
I intend writing a thesis on “The Bulletin
and the Australian ' Short Story, 1880-1940.”
How should I set about the work, and could
you supply me with a list of the 50 most im-
portant Bulletin story-writers? —sloo.
You have a long job ahead of you, since it
is advisable that you should read a repre-
sentative selection of stories, most of which
are buried in the files of The Bulletin, by each
of a- large number of' writers. • For a start
read The Bulletin Story Book, edited by
Stephens, Australian Short -Stories, edited by
Mackaness, and An Australian Story Book,
edited by Nettie Palmer; also Green’s An Out-
line of Australian Literature and Barnard Elder-
shaw’s Essays in Australian Fiction for critical
references. Since. several hundred writers have
contributed stories to The, Bulletin the task of
selecting the “50 most important” is one that
cannot be undertaken. The following names do
not necessarily represent the “best 50,” but are
merely offered as a tentative working list for
your benefit: William Astley, Ernest Favenc,
Edward Dyson, Randolph Bedford, Victor
Daley, Henry Lawson, Louis Becke, Dowell
O’Reilly, Alex. Montgomery, Steele Rudd,
“Banjo” Paterson, Albert Dorrington, E. S.
Sorenson, Barbara Baynton, “Smiler” Hales,
James Edmond, J. H. M. Abbott, Arthur H.
Adams, Tom Collins, Roderic Quinn, Louis
Esson, WilLLawson, Gilbert M. Turnbull, Wil-
liam Hatfield, Katharine Susannah Prichard,
Frank Dalby Davison, Velia Ercole, Ernest
O’Ferrall, C. A. Jeffries, David McKee Wright,
Mary Simpson, H. E. Riemann, M. G. Skipper,
J. B. Dailey, Harold Mercer- N-. F. Spielvogel,
J. , A. Barry,. Lopis • Stone, Hilary Lofting,
Bernard Cronin, Myra Morris, Frank Middle-
miss, Cecil Mann, Vance Palmer, Zora Cross,
Gavin S. Casey, Henrietta Drake-Brockman,
Don H. Edwards, A. C. Headley and G. B.
Lancaster.
* DC * DC
(1) Area of land held by the several missions
in the Mandated Territory of New Guinea as
at June 30, 1938 ?' (2) r What missions ■ have
qualified medical practitioners on their staffs ?
—5152.
(1) Catholic Mission of the Most Sacred
Heart of Jesus, 13,622 hectares; Catholic Mis-
sion of the Holy Ghost, Eastern New Guinea,
9328; Catholic Mission of the Holy i Gjhost,
Central New Guinea, 6662; Marist Mission
Society, 2158; Lutheran Mission, Finschhafen,
4762; Liebenzell Mission, 83 ; Methodist Mis-
sionary Society of A’asia, 3362; Methodist.
Missionary Society of N.Z.,-244; Melanesian
Mission, 55; Seventh Day Adventist Mission,
2286; Lutheran Mission, Madang, 1797. (2)
Catholic Mission of the Most Sacred Heart of
Jesus, 1; Marist Mission Society, 4; Lutheran •
Mission, Finschhafen, 2; and Lutheran Mission,
Madang, 2.
D= Dc D 1 Dc -
Is the koala a tree-dweller, and is he a good
climber? Does he get about much during the
day? Upon what does he feed? How many
are born at a birth, and are the young carried
in a pouch? —5161.
The koala is essentially an arboreal animal,
and its movements when it descends to the
ground are awkward and clumsy. The grasp-
ing-power of its hands and feet, with their '
strong and pointed claws, enables it to climb
with great sureness; even when severely
wounded it will not readily relax its hold.
Mainly nocturnal, it may sometimes be seen
moving about in the daytime, but usually'
passes the hours of daylight asleep in a fork ■
or in the interior of a hollow trunk. Its food
consists almost exclusively of eucalyptus leaves,
but it descends occasionally in search of other
vegetation or to dig for certain roots; cheek-
pouches serve for the temporary storage of
food. Koalas usually live in pairs. Only one.
is produced at a birth; as in other marsupials,
this is very small -at first,, and is retained in
the pouch; when it becomes able to leave this
shelter, it is carried for some time clinging
to its mother’s back or shoulder.
Dc D= D= D=
(1) Since when have the tides been recorded
in Sydney Harbor? (2) What is the tidal datum
adopted? (3) Lowest and highest tides
recorded? (4) Greatest tidal range recorded?
—5173.
(1) A self-recording tide-gauge has been in
operation at Fort Denison, in Port Jackson,
since 1867. (2) Low water, ordinary spring
tide, is taken as zero; the mean sea-level is
2.52 ft.; ordinary low water, 0.78 ft.; ordinary
high water, 4.20 ft.; and the mean daily range
is 3ft. sin. (3) The lowest tide was recorded
on July 16, 1916, when the gauge fell Ift. 3in.
below datum. The highest tide was recorded
on May 26, 1880, viz., 7ft. 6|in.; on June 22,
1876, the gauge recorded 7ft. 44in. and on
July 21, 1876, 7ft. 3in. (4) On August 3, 1921,
the gauge .registered 7ft. 2in. and on that day
occurred the greatest tidal range on record —
6ft. 94in.
* * * *
In what cases can a convicted person appeal
to the N.S.W. Court of Criminal Appeal ? Can
the Crown appeal to the Court against a
sentence ? Does the Court order a new trial,
alter the sentence or dismiss or quash the con-
viction? —5176. '
Any . person convicted on indictment may
appeal to; the Court agajnst his conviction (1)
on any ground which involves a question of
law alone, or. (2), with the leave of the Court
or upon the certificate of the Judge of the Court
of-'-trial, on any ground which involves a
question of fact - alone,- or of mixed law and
fact/or-any other ground which appears to
the Court to, be-sufficient. With the leave of
the Court, a convicted person may appeal also
against the sentence passed on conviction. In
such appeal the Appeal Court may quash sen-
tence and substitute, another either more or less
severe.- The. Attorney-General may appeal to
the Court against a sentence pronounced by
the Supreme Court or any Court of Quarter
Sessions. The Appeal Court has power, in special
cases,' to record a verdict and pass a sentence
.in substitution for the verdict and sentence of
the Court of trial. It also may grant a new
trial, either on its own motion or on applica-
tion of the appellant.,
* * * *
A, few biographical details concerning Ernst
Toller, the German dramatist, who committed
suicide in New York this year? —so9s.
Born in Samatschin, Germany, in 1893, he
was educated at the Universities of Heidelberg,
Munich and Grenoble. He enlisted voluntarily
in the. German Army in 1914, and served in
France until 1917, when he was invalided. The
same year he turned pacifist, , joined the
student movement against the war in Heidel-
berg and was interned in a fortress for. his
activities. In 1918 and 1919, under the German
republic, he was president of the Central
Council of Workers and Soldiers in. Bavaria
and-leader of the republican army. After
Hitler came to power Toller was exiled and
deprived of'his citizenship, and lived in London
from 1933 to 1936, when he went to New York.
He wrote-three books of prose, a book of
verse and about 12 plays.
* * * <■
Where can I obtain a detailed list of the (1)
lakes, (2) rivers, (3) islands off the coast, and
(4) mountain systems of A ustralia ? The ordi-
nary .geography-books, while helpful, are not
sufficiently comprehensive. —5180.
Special articles and lists printed in the Cora-
monwealth Official Year , Book, which is
available at all public libraries, will give the
required information. For (1) see Year Book
No. IV, page -59, (2) Year Book No. 11, page
67,, (3) Year Book No. V, page 51, and (4)
Year Book No. 111, page 59. , <, . ; ■
* * * *
Names of newspapers in the following N.S.W.
towns: (1) Newcastle, (2) Broken Hill, (3)
Gdulburn, (4) Cessnock, (5) Wollongong, (6)
Lithgow, (7) .' Lismore', (8) Maitland, (9) Wagga
Wagga, (10) Albury, (11) Bathurst, (12) Tam-
wdrt.h, (13) Orange, and (14), Dubbo? —5158.
(1) “Morning Herald,” “Sun.” ' (2) “Barrier
Miner,”. “Barrier Daily Truth.” (3) '‘Evening
Penny Post,” : “Banner.” (4). “Eagle.” (5)
“Illawarra : Mercury,” “South Coast Times.”
(6) “Mercury,” “Clarion.” (7) .“Northern
Star.” . (8) “Mercury.” (9) “Express,” “Adver-
tiser.” *"(10) “Banner,” “Border Morning Mail.”
(11) “National Advocate,” “Western Times.”
(12) “Northern Daily Leader.” (13) “Leader.”
(14), “Dispatch,” “Liberal and Macquarie Advo-
cate.”
* * * *
Testing a water-soluble pine oil for free alkali
with phenolphthalein testing paper with a pH
range of 8.3-10 : gives a negative result; and
with a Brilliant Yellow test paper with a pH
range of 6-8 a positive result. Reason and
explanation of pH range? —-4921.
The pH range is a scale denoting the acidity
of a solution: Neutral point is seven, and the
pH value decreases with increasing acidity and
increases . with increasing alkalinity. The pH
of the oil mentioned is less than 8.3, as shown
by the phenolphthalein, but is at the alkaline
end of the Brilliant Yellow range, showing
that its pH is greater than seven. The oil,
therefore, is very faintly ,
* * * *
(1) How are roads classified in N. S. Wales ?
(2) Mileage of each particular type ?— 5053.
(1) (a) State highways —the'main avenues of
communicatian between the coast and the in-
terior or. throughout the State and'connecting
with such avenues in other States, (b) trunk
road's —secondary avenues of communication
which / form, with State highways and other
trunk roads, a framework of a general system
of communication throughout the State, (c)
ordinary main roads—used mainly by through
traffic, between towns or important centres of
population, and which, with State highways
and, trunk roads, form part of the general
system of road communication throughout the
State, (d) secondary roads —roads in the metro-
politan area of Sydney which carry a substan-
tial amount of through traffic and relieve neigh-
boring main roads of traffic which they would
otherwise have to bear, and (e) developmental
roads —which serve to improve a district or
area by providing access to a railway station
or a shipping wharf or to a road leading to a
station or Wharf. (2) Eastern Division, June
30 1937: State highways 3844 miles, trunk
roads 2424, ordinary main roads 9197, secondary
roads 102, developmental roads 2419, minor
roads (December 31, 1936) 103,207. Western
Division, June 30, 1936: 7282. Total, 128,475
miles.
Does Anybody Know?
Quotation to the effect that the three most
beautiful things in the world are the color
blue, a certain musical chord and the curve
of a woman’s breast? —4963.
* * * *
Name of Australian collector said to own
Van Gogh’s landscape “Orchard in Bloom,
painted at Arles in 1888, and whether painting
can be inspected?-—4976.'
Brief Answers.
R.H.F. Confine questions to one subject with
each coupon sent. You ask seven different
questions on as many different subjects, and
since each question has to be submitted to a
different authority delay in replying is .unavoid-
able 8.J.8.: Get-in touch with the secre-
tary, N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association, Edge-
cliff,'Sydney E.A.8.: See article- ‘'Naming
of Australia” in the Australian Encyclopedia.
vol. 1, page 97:.. . .L.S.: .It was Voltaire who
described the English nation as “Froth at top,
dregs at bottom, but the middle excellent”
F. 8.: The following German place-names were
changed in N.S.W. and Vic. during the Great
War of 1914-18: N.S.W., Germanton to Hol-
brook, German’s Hill to Lidster, German Creek
to Empire Vale; Vic., Germantown to Grove-
dale, Hochkirch to Tarrington, Mt. Bismarck
to Mt. Kitchener... .G.P.: Melbourne Cup
winners ’ for the years’ mentioned were:
1913, Posinatus; 1914, Kingsburgh; 1915,
Patrobas; -1916, Sasanoff; 1917,.Westcourt; 1918,
Night Watch; 1919, Artilleryman ; 1920,Poitrel.
H.W.: “Not lost but gone before” was
the title of a song published in Smith’s Edin-
burgh Harmony - (1829). - It was. probably
derived from the Latin phrase “Non amittun-
tur sed prcemittuntur,” by Seneca, meaning
“They are not .lost, but sent before”
A.G.D.: The “Australian Journal” (monthly,
6d.), 350 ’Swanston-street, Melbourne..-. H.T.:
From Will Andrade, -Central Chambers, 173
Pitt-street, ’ Sydney.L:B;: Get in touch with
Dr. J. H. L. Cumpston,; Director-General of
Health, C’wealth Department of Health, Can-
berra.. . .F.T.F.: The Mair Ministry took office
in N. S. Wales on August 5, 1939, and was re-
constructed bn August 16, 19391.. .P.T.: An
account of the life of James Hardy Vaux will
be found in the Australian • Encyclopedia,
vol. 2,.page 611. Mitchell Library, Sydney,
may be able to supply further references
C.C.: The ' wirrah (Acanthistius serratus) has
remarkable powers of intensifying and sub-
duing its color-markings. It is generally spotted
with blue on. a greenish-brown ground-color. -
It lives among rocks, and is recorded from
both the eastern and western coasts of Aus-
tralia. Though reaching a length of 18in.,
it is of little value as an edible species, being
tough and coarse... .C.H.8.: The Loch
Lomond, a 1200-ton iron clipper ship, was built
in 1870,' and continued in the Australian trade
till 1908, when she was sold to the Union S.S.
Co. She loaded at Newcastle for Lyttelton,
left July, 1908, and was not heard of again.
Seventeen lives were lost M.G.: Silky oak
is the popular name of Grevillea robusta,
which extends from the brushes of the Clarence
River (N.S.W.) up to northern Queensland.
Other plants (especially Orites excelsa) are
known in particular localities as silky oak,
but G. robusta is * the original owner of the
name.... V.C.E.: Bathurst“National Advo-
cate” and the “Western Times”.. ..J.8.N.:
Kohukohu is . 190 .miles north from Auckland
(M.L.) and has a population of 400. It is in
an agricultural and pastdral district ... .H S.:
Snapdragon plants may either be raised from
seed or propagated from cuttings, but the
former will be found the more satisfactory.
It gives best results when treated as an annual,
the seed being sown every year... .P.T.P.:
Durrant’s. Press Cuttings, St. Andrew s House,
32 Holborn Viaduct, E.C.I ; General Press-
Cutting Association, 13 Farringdon-avenue,
E.C.4; International Press-Cutting Bureau,
110 Fleet-street, E.C.4; Woolgar and Roberts,
1 Dorset Buildings, Salisbury-square, Fleet-
street, E.C.4 —all London A.W.: The
phrase is by Epictetus and translated reads.
“Education is a possession which cannot be
taken away from any man”... .S.T.C. '• Esch-
scholtzias are difficult to transplant, and it is
advisable to sow the seed where the plants are
to remain, thinning out any excess seedlings when
the plants are large enough to handle, and allow-
ing from Bin. to lOin. between each specimen.
They are quite hardy, and are not affected by
frosts.. . .W. 8.: You apparently have in mind
the case of John Lee, a footman, who was
convicted of the murder of his Emma
Keyse, at Babbicombe, near Torquay, England,
in 1885. When about to be hanged at Exeter,
the drop ‘ failed three times and Lee was re-
prieved... .T.T.: W. M. Hughes was born in
Wales on September 25, 1864, and arrived m
Australia in 1884... .R.D.: Consult Valentine s
Jewish Encyclopedia D.J.W.: Trait is pro-
nounced “tray.” Americans pronounce it
“trate,” the “a” being long as in ale... G.C.H..
Tannenberg, a village in East Prussia, has given
its name to two battles of great importance
in German- history, the battle of July 15, 1410,
in which the Poles and Lithuanians destroyed
the forces of the Teutonic Order, and that of
August 26-31, 1914, in which the German
Eighth Army under Hmdenburg destroyed the
Russian Second Army commanded by General
Samsonov....Pelican: There were two battles
in the Teutoburger Wald.. The first was m
a.d. 9, when Arminius wiped out the army
of the Roman Governor Quintilius Varus, and
in a d. 15, when Arminius narrowly escaped the
fate of Varus, his-opponent being Germamcus
Czesar - There is an immense literature on
the subject....K.O.B.: Write to any of the
following: Moreland Metal Co., 3 Market-
street, Sydney; David Cohen, 5 Egan-street,
Newtown (N.S.W); Brown and Dureau
Fountain-street, Alexandria (N.S.W.), and
Gearin O’Riordan, Old Botany-road, Mascot
(NSW.) R.Y.: See the Statesmans Year-
Book, 1939, or Whitaker’s Almanack, 1939
WHS - Names and addresses of contributors
are not furnished without their permission. A
letter addressed to the writer care of this
office will be forwarded E.M.L.: The
word is not listed in any of the dictionaries
consulted. Write to the contributor... .R.C.:
There are several methods of fixing shells,
such as paste of white-lead and plaster of
Paris, composition of plaster and isinglass,
dough of finely-powdered whiting and thin
due, and sealing-wax J.S.A.: He did not
ferve in the Great War of 1914-18.. . .G.C.H.:
The quotation is from “Macbeth, Act 1, Scene
2 R.D.M-: Programmes are printed in
“Wireless Weekly,” published in Sydney.


NTS
LYS
pßoor.
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
B* 5 •„
■ * . *■ . ■
- / -'.' ' . .n ■ - ix.v.„ .. • vjmH*
m.
&2S
-4 W_
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY
"LYSAGHT'S
” WIRE
WIRE NETTING, ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
" DON'T WORRY. IM SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
The Queensland Wool Report.
“Ghanam”: Before war broke out, the
Queensland Government appointed W. L.
Payne, president of the Land Court, to
consider the condition of the Queensland
wool industry.
His report says that the purchase of all
wool by the British Government has im-
proved the prospects for the immediate
future, but he echoes The Bulletin's
warning that post-war conditions must be
prepared for. The difficulties of last season,
when the gross return was the lowest for
four years, may recur and increase. The
greatest menace to the industry is fluctuat-
ing prices, but Payne admits that fixation
of prices would merely drive buyers away,
and that in the normal state of world
trade fixed prices are impossible. He
favors, after the war, the reinstatement
of the Bawra system, under which there
was limited control under an auction
system, and he thinks that the scheme
might, with advantage, be incorporated
in the regular wool-selling procedure.
To revert to the open unrestricted market
method for all wool in a topsy-turvy world
might be to invite economic disaster.
Payne further thinks that the British
Government might be persuaded to co-
operate. When Britain no longer requires
the whole of our wool, he scents the pos-
sibility of barter agreements, which have
worked out well for S’Africa.
The number of sheep in Queensland
is placed at 22,000,000-odd, capital in-
vestment at £40,000,000 and total profit
last season at £1,000,000, or 2\ p.c. on
depreciated capital value. If losses as
well as profits were averaged over the
whole industry, the profit would actually
be nil.
The trend of the last few years has
been to add to the growers’ costs and re-
duce their returns. Payne places average
costs (1938) as: Working costs, 5.98 d.;
drought costs, 0.85 d.; marketing costs,
1.1 Id. ; depreciation, Id.; and interest on
capital, 2.16 d. Total, ll.lOd. Under
favorable circumstances, charges are
lower, but in drought districts they are
considerably higher.
He remarks on the heavy burden of
interest, and says that financial institu-
tions will need to clean up accounts to
give each grower a reasonable chance of
working his way out. He thinks this
should be done concurrently with Gov-
ernment action in the matter of railway
freights, rents and income-tax reform, in
the form of remissions of interest and
writing-off of principal.
The average debt per sheep is not less
than 21s. and the usual interest rate is
5| p.c. He quotes a n.-w. property, pro-
ducing 700 bales in 1938, on which costs
last year were 16d. and in 1936 25d. per
pound. Interest last year absorbed 6.3 d.
per pound.
Where smaller selections have been
overcapitalised by the erection of netting
and other facilities which protect the
whole industry of the district against
pests and have been granted Land Board
loans for the purpose, he recommends
that the Land Board be empowered to
write down capital charges as a return
for the community service rendered by
the borrowers.
He suggests the resumption of lands
needed to make the holdings of small
settlers payable, and says there should be
no intensification of settlement in the
west of the State until normal prosperous
times return. Short-tenure leases, he
believes, should be extended where neces-
sary to allow present holders to recoup
the heavy losses of recent years, and he
wishes to see the priority clauses in re-
gard to the homestead blocks of indi-
viduals whose properties are resumed ex-
tended to companies.
There is a good deal about taxation in
the report. Payne proposes that both
“ What have you got your boots off for?”
“Frightened I might kick back at her, boss.”
State and Commonwealth should allow
graziers to carry their losses forward for
five years to be utilised as a deduction
from profits. In his opinion, considering
the heavy fluctuations in wool prices, the
averaging of incomes for five years is a
matter of simple taxation justice.
He believes that, to encourage provi-
sion against drought, drought reserve ex-
penditure should be allowed as a deduc-
tion for the year in which it is incurred
irrespective of the year in which the
fodder is used. He suggests an imme-
diate 20 p.c. reduction in railway freights
in districts which do not already enjoy
concessional rates and a new system of
low freight carriage of fodder to .the west,
irrespective of the season. If it were
found necessary for the Railway Depart-
ment to recoup its concessions, this
should be done by increasing rates on
other goods. Lastly, he wishes to make
carriage of drought sheep at concession
rates a matter of course needing no
special notification.
The Queensland United Graziers’ Asso-
ciation and the Selectors’ Association
both applaud the report. The president
of the former body declares it “fearless
and fruitful”:
The report is an indictment of the
present system of making wool pay high
railway freight charges irrespective of pre-
vailing wool prices. Last year, with wool
at 10.56 d. per pound, numerous graziers
showed deficits, but the Railway Depart-
ment collected between £600,000 and
£700,000 from the industry, the whole
profit from which was approximately only
£1,000,000. Dealing with taxation, the
Commissioner’s report virtually endorses
all that the association desired.
Mr. Humphreys, of the Selectors’ Asso-
tion, says that the report carries a warn-
ing that the Imperial price of 13|d. does
not allow for any increase in production
costs.
Prevention of Tetanus.
“J.R.D.”: The Commonwealth Serum
Laboratories have been experimenting
with methods of preventing tetanus.
Methods used previously were: Injec-
tion of anti-toxin, which gave immediate
protection for a few weeks; and inocu-
lation with tetanus toxoid (alum precipi-
tate), which takes two or three weeks to
gtve protection, but thereafter confers
practically lifelong immunity.
The serum was used on injured ani-
mals or on sheep immediately prior to
shearing or castration where tetanus
spores might be picked up. Toxoid is
used to immunise valuable animals or
flocks and herds in districts where tetanus
is rife and where there is no immediate
danger.
The latest tests have been directed
towards finding a method of incorpora-
ting the two—mixed in a test tube the
vaccines neutralise each other.
Three groups of lambs were used,
Group A received a standard dose of
tetanus anti-toxin, Group B tetanus
toxoid ; Group C was inoculated in
opposite thighs with anti-toxin and
toxoid.
Group A developed an almost imme-
diate resistance to the disease, but resist-
ance thereafter faded until, 24 days after
the inoculation, its benefits had completely
disappeared. Group B derived no benefit
until eight days after inoculation, and
full protection was not attained until
the fourteenth day. Immunity remained
at practically the same high level there-
after.
Group C acquired almost immediate
immunity, which waned slightly for about
a fortnight till the toxoid then took up
the work, and a steady rate of protec-
tion, not quite so high as Group B, was
retained.
Three months after inoculation the
respective degrees of protection of
the groups were put to a practical
test. One lamb from each group was
given a small number of tetanus spores.
A week later the Group A lamb had died,
B and C being unaffected. A similar
experiment on two lambs from each
group a month later killed one lamb
from Group A; then a double dose of
spores administered to each group re-
sulted in a further death in Group A.
In the final test all the remaining lambs
were given a huge dose of tetanus spores.
This wiped out all the survivors of Group
A, but no ill effects were suffered by
either Group B or Group C.
Young lambs may now be treated at
marking time, thus minimising risk at
the periods of greatest danger.
Reclassing Wools,
“Ghanam”:Onefactwhichtheappraise-
has already illustrated is the
, , , . 3 , . , „
haphazard manner in which some small
s are classed. A Sydney reclassing
irm f° un d up to 16 types m a single
bale of western wool. It is not uncom-
mon for small men to lump crossbred
and merino wool together in the same
bale.
Separating them is a huge job. It must
be done one bale, at a time. The wool
is weighed in grower’s lots, then the types
are divided into separate bundles. Each
lot must be weighed again and the
weights tallied with each grower’s total
weight. Separate types go to separate
bins covering particular districts; care-
ful check is kept of every parcel which
goes into a bin. Contents of each bin
are baled for appraisement. Afterwards
there is the intricate accountancy job of
dividing the proceeds of the sales,
Some bales have been found to con-
tain sheepskins or rabbitskins. One of
( Continued on next page.)


'll ' ' *=l
808.
There’s a great satisfaction in really knowing that you are getting value for
your money.
We are certain that we can satisfy you with this working Cossack.
Heavy double soles, full and half sizes, in Black or Brown. Price .... 27/6
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: "ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
STOCKOWNERS! ATTENTION.
SOLIDIFIED MOLASSES
MOLASCOLIC
PRODUCED BY NORTH QUEENSLAND SUGAR MILLS.
PRICE £6/17/6 PER TON, F.0.R., TULLY.
Order from Wholesale Distributors.
Enquiries to MOLASSES PRODUCTS PTY., LTD.,
BOX 56, BABINDA, N.Q. ____
BUILD FARM STRUCTURES
IN CONCRETE
V
. •• X
&' -x
wmmmrnm
mmmm
m
lltel
mm
litfll
. x-x .
FOR FREE BOOKLETS AND INFORMATION ON
SPECIALISED SUBJECTS, WRITE TO
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT MANUFACTURERS
ASSOCIATION
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON STREET, SYDNEY.
77ie'^xjIIeS/rt
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
E
£0
s
LOTIO
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H J A ; Rose > &jDo ; JPt^ l^td; j ii Kin2 a St ;l>^dne^
The Man on the Land I — Continued
the biggest reclassers will this year handle
30,000 bales of mixed wools, much of
which would not need touching if
growers knew the elements of the job or
stuck to a single type of sheep.
The amount of wool which must be
sold at under value in ordinary years be-
cause auction buyers bid on the safe side
for museum collections of wool must be
enormous.
Jetting Precautions.
“Sheepo”: Jetting will give sheep a
few weeks’ immunity from flystrike pro-
vided it is carried out thoroughly.
The fluid must thoroughly saturate the
wool about the breech, so a high-level
race gives the better results. Jetting
should be carried out at a pressure of
from 1001 b. to 1301 b. to the square inch,
dependent on the growth of wool. The
nozzle should be kept about 12in. from
the sheep, the crutch being jetted first,
then backwards and forwards over the
tail, then inside and outside the hind
legs. With rams, heads also should be
treated. It is useless to jet before there
is enough wool to absorb the fluid, and,
with arsenical poisoning possible, it is
risky to jet before shearing cuts have
healed. Not less than six weeks after
shearing or crutching is the safest time.
Any badly-struck sheep should be
drafted off and not jetted ; they require
special treatment. Both before and after
jetting, sheep should be given time to
cool down. The best plan is to yard
overnight. If possible, allow sheep to
dry in the shade.
Remember jetting fluid is poisonous.
Wear gloves and wash hands often.
Lambing Troubles.
“B-gar”: Pasture growth has been
heavy in N.S.W., and in-lamb ewes are
carrying a lot of condition. There may
be losses from toxaemia of pregnancy or
twin-lamb disease. With plenty of feed
and water available close handy, ewes
when heavy in lamb will not walk far.
Through lack of exercise they become
too fat and a prey to disease. Once
in-lamb ewes become affected it’s too late
for treatment. Precautionary measures
should be adopted in plenty of time.
Where conditions permit, in-lamb ewes
should be mustered and travelled a couple
of miles every second day at least three
weeks before lambing. Yarding a couple
of nights weekly will tend to reduce
excess condition. If permanent yards are
not handy, temporary ones should be
erected in the paddocks and the ewes
yarded without dogs.
Woolly ewes should be crutched not
less than a month before lambing ; care-
ful handling is important. Blowflies will
be troublesome, but if in-lamb ewes are
crutched at the correct time there should
be little need to knock the ewes about
treating strike until lambing has finished.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: Don’t-breed from sows
that have fewer than 12 teats. Best are
those with 12 to 14 teats, and very long-
bodied sows capable of rearing large
litters will have up to 16. See that the
teats are prominent, evenly spaced and
set well towards the front of the belly.
“X.N.”: Many a good graft is spoilt
by lack of care after it has taken.
Grafts should be watched in their early
stages, and when the growth is 9in. long
string and wax should be carefully cut
through. Cut both cloth and string but
remove the string only—if it is left it
acts as a tourniquet. The cloth remains
as protection to the scion, which will
presently ease it off. Be careful to check
sprout growth, which may usurp the food
supply of the scion.
“Nap”: How far does altitude affect
the sheep tick? At a shed near Bathurst
(N.S.W.) this year father and son shore
together. Father’s sheep came from sur-
rounding paddocks and were tick-infected
despite dipping; son’s sheep travelled
four miles to the shed, downhill all the
way, and were free of ticks, although they
had never seen a dip. Father’s country
is clean, Son’s scrubby. Difference in
height would be about 800 ft.
“Ovis”: The Queensland Agricultural
Department issues a warning against
Darling pea as a sheep-sickener. Pea
is to sheep what metho. is to an abo.;
once it has tasted pea the animal wants
it always. The result is a sick sheep. No
medicine helps. The only thing to do is
to remove the sheep to a clean paddock.
“A.A.D.”: There has been a notice-
able decline in fluke infestation of sheep
in N.S.W., though dry seasons have not
helped appreciably. Protective drenching
with carbon tetrachloride and the appli-
cation of bluestone to the water supplies
in affected areas provide effective control
measures. The next step may be action
directed at the ultimate clean-up of “fluke
areas.” The veterinary view is that fluke
should be made a notifiable disease, and
everyone concerned should deal with his
property and his sheep under regulations.
“Observer”: Drastic reduction in
N.S.W. works estimates has called a halt
in the construction of further dips in
the tick quarantine areas. The contem-
plated 1939-40 programme has been cut
out. Minister for Agriculture A. D. Reid
suggests that stockowners should help
themselves by building co-operative or
community dips. These would be main-
tained by the department and medicament
supplied free.
“Downs”: Queensland’s wheat crop is
estimated as at least three million bushels
less than last year’s record production of
8,448,000 bushels. As it will be neces-
sary to draw upon N.S.W. for about a
million bushels, exemption has been re-
ceived from the Australian acquisition
scheme. The Queensland Wheat Market-
ing Board will control supplies indepen-
dently.
“Yarrunga”: L. G. Burke, of Durrie,
Birriwa (N.S.W.), district winner in the
inland section of the champion farmer
competition, has cut his cultivation costs
in wheatgrowing 50 p.c. by attaching
a producer gas unit to his farm tractor.
On a mixed-farming property of 1504
acres he has 520 acres of wheat and 400
acres of oats, the latter having been
grazed in winter. After adjustments to
the gas attachment, an earlier power loss
of 30 to 40 p.c. was remedied, and the
expectation is that harvesting cost can
also be halved. Locally-burned charcoal
is obtained at Is. a bag.
“X.T.”: Dairymen from the Atherton
were able to see a sample of solidified
molasses at the recent Cairns (N.Q.)
show. Three large sugar mills—Mul-
grave, Babinda and Tully—are co-
operating in manufacture, and the Tully
unit already is in production. The new
product should have a good market in
drought districts, since in solid form it
retains its full nutritive qualities, is easy
to pack, cheap to freight and doesn’t
promote gorging by stock.
“Granova”: At the Regional Fodder
Conservation Conference held at Temora
(N.S.W.), the case for silage was ably
stated by Graham Waddell. He grows
Mulga oats for silage, and grazes them
heavily in order to be able to pit a short,
fine growth with a large proportion of
head. As every foot of material is placed
in position, he sprinkles it with molasses
and water, and continues the stack above
the ground at the same slope as the side
of the pit for several feet in order to
ensure compaction at the sides. As the
stack rises above the ground, he scoops
earth along the sides. In this way he
can stack material Bft. above ground
level. Waddell has no trouble in getting
sheep to eat the silage. During the last
drought his ewes reared 73 p.c. of lambs,
and his losses were below those of aver-
age years. He estimated the cost of grow-
ing and pitting the material at 10s. per
ton.
“Hick”: Growing Prussian blue peas
for the troops was found profitable by
many Tasmanian farmers. during the
Great War. Up to £1 a bushel was
realised. A fair average crop returned
20 to 30 bushels per acre, and up to
50 and 60 bushels per acre have been
harvested off suitable land. Farmers are
greatly increasing their areas this year,
but during the last decade a fungoid
disease has affected many crops. It
appears to be a collar rot, and the C.S.
and I.R. has so far failed to find a
remedy.
“Mungle”: The proposal to export
1000 wild-pig carcasses from North
Queensland (B. 18/10/’39) is all right
provided they can make the weight and
quality standard required. In N.S.W.
scrub pigs from Moree and the Lower
Macquarie have been trucked to Flem-
ington, but, conformation and finish lack-
ing, the pork reached consumers in
sausage skins.
“Coaster”: Can’t agree that the Cape
gooseberry hasn’t been “acclimatised
south of the Queensland border” (B.
27/9/’39). For the last 40 years or so it
has grown wild and fruited freely at
many points along the N.S.W. coast,
from the Hawkesbury to the Tweed, but
never in cultivation on a commercial
scale. Off and on I have grown it for
home use nearer Sydney, and found it
germinate freely from fallen berries. The
fruit has not been popular in the Sydney
market, simply because supplies have
been scanty and spasmodic. Golden
Nugget, a large-fruited variety, also grows
readily, but is not nearly so prolific as
the common type, and is not edible in the
raw state.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4£d. per line;
all others at per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published are not disqualified.
The N.S.W. Digger’s indictment placed first this week may be too sweeping,
but it is telling and touched with humor.
“Babbling Brooks”
No more demoralising piece of propa-
ganda could be showered over Germany
than the announcement that we were
having men specially trained to cook for
our soldiers, for Hitler must know the
Germans had no stouter allies in 1914-18
than so-called cooks. Those who sus-
tained knocks from German and Turk in
the last scrap will testify that, while the
thrusts of Johnny and Fritz have long
ceased to be other than proud and pain-
less memories, the undignified internal
wounds inflicted from the cookhouse
torment us without surcease to this day.
And how simple was the recruiting of
this fatal Fifth Column! Cooks wanted?
Very well, call for volunteers. No con-
ditions as to knowledge, experience, fit-
ness or other qualification laid down for
this most vital service. Just volunteers.
And what a monstrous regiment stepped
forward! Stars of the stokehold, heroes
of the blast furnace, trimmers and hewers
of coal, puddlers of iron, mixers of con-
crete: all these to be drafted into galley
or cookhouse and left to prepare at
leisure their decimating assaults on the
basis of all military efficiency—the health
and high spirits of the soldiery.
Some were so ignorant and careless
that, in camp in the green heart of
England, surrounded by the world’s most
succulent vegetables and fruit, they
achieved their work so completely that
scurvy broke out among their victims.
In Basra they didn’t know how to make
tea, and within a few days hundreds of
men were in hospital with tea-poisoning,
which made them more ghastly to look
at than the worst forms of jaundice.
Apparently 25 years’ progress in food
research have taught the military no-
thing, and the preparation of food is
still regarded as a joke. Couldn’t women
be enlisted for this work? Not “cookery
experts,” but women with sound experi-
ence in providing clean, simple food on a
large scale. — James Henry (N.S.W.).
Sixteen Days in Camp
I did mine. If the proposed instruc-
tion syllabus had been completed the
camp would have been successful in
producing a reasonably well-trained force
in a short time. However, the onerous
guard duties, now performed by the gar-
rison Diggers, rendered it impossible of
fulfilment.
As many in my infantry company were
practically raw recruits, they found
guarding all night (two hours on, four
off) and drilling or digging trenches the
following day excessively arduous. On
two occasions I did 12 hours’ night guard,
drilled and dug all day, and was then
allotted a 24 hours’ guard, commencing
from 6 o’clock the same evening. And I
was not the only one.
The food was very poor, the fault
lying largely with the cooking and hap-
hazard method of distribution. The
hardships imposed on the men had their
repercussions in the disappointing militia
response to recruiting for the A.I.F.
Nevertheless, the camp was not en-
tirely without merit. An exceptionally
high standard of marksmanship with
rifle, pistol and Lewis automatic was
reached, and the militiamen emerged a
hardy lot with military enthusiasm un-
dimmed. It is to be hoped that the good
work will not be undone by a long delay
before the next camp commences. —
Crusader (N.S.W.).
Camp Libraries
Camping militiamen, finding it impos-
sible to read by the dull light of their
tent’s solitary hurricane-lamp, resort to
yarning or playing cards before “Lights
out” is sounded, except when occasion-
ally entertained by a concert party. A
decent library would be much appreciated
by most of them.
The Salvation Army is doing good work
in this respect by providing free stationery
and an illuminated marquee in which one
can write or read periodicals, but such
facilities are really inadequate.
There are plenty of travelling libraries
which, if granted permission, would be
glad to supply camps with good reading,
and I see no reason why the Defence
authorities themselves could not supply
one. Stirring books like Idriess’s The
Desert Column or even military instruc-
tion books would be lapped up, and would
serve the purpose of maintaining a good
morale among the confined troops. —
Petermac (N.S.W.).
The First Step
The amount of criticism hurled at our
Federal Government is colossal, and
maybe it deserves it, but by the same
token a really worth-while act calls for
approval. By the reintroduction of com-
pulsory military training that act has
been performed. For years The Bulle-
tin has decried the fact that training was
ever abolished, and fairly begged that we
cease our suicidal spendthrift stupidity.
Now the Menzies Government has at
least introduced partial compulsory mili-
tary training. And public finance and
State Parliaments may be under the spot-
light before long. — Pip (Vic.).
Women and the War
It seems to me that the main factors
which awaken women’s interests in war
work (B. 11/10/’39) are a desire for
power and prestige, together with the
frothy publicity of the flapper press. The
peace-time jobs that cry out for workers
require no noisy publicity, press cameras
or dressy uniforms. Women will form
powerful societies for the protection of
stray mongs, but the rescue of human
strays is relegated to the Salvation Army
lassie. There is more prestige attached
to patronage of lost dogs than warm
human interest and kindness to one’s
kind.
Yet war, because it gives a sense of
power to all sorts of busybodies and an
acceptable excuse for evasion of imme-
diate obligations in the home and else-
where, can attract scores of women who
in peace-time have been cruelly apathetic
and without a vestige of co-operative
spirit. I note that most of the volunteers
come from social groups which never did
a useful tap of housework in their lives.
Whole groups of women volunteers are
attracted to the work merely because they
are trying to compensate for the futility
of their existence. There is an amazing
number of childless married women with-
out an interest in the world beyond the
time-killing occupations of erotic novel-
reading, party-going and projecting them-
selves into the latest fashion creations.
War comes as a way out for them. It
provides an interest, even it is merely
lending a hand to the Women’s After-
noon-tea-for-soldiers Brigade.
Hundreds of women are suddenly de-
veloping an interest in first aid, when
mothers should already know the subject
inside out, without the urge of war to
awaken interest.
Women are being fawned over, puffed,
made heroic during the war days by a
silly flapper press—a press that has been
silent on interests which a few courageous
women have carried out during the
quieter days.—E. K. (S.A.).
Keeping Volunteers’ Jobs
Don’t misunderstand me; I am not
saying that the State should not protect
military volunteers’ financial and econo-
mic interests—good luck to them for all
that they can get, say I! That does not
stop me from visualising the top-heavy
edifice on a flimsy base which acceptance
and application of the principle involve.
First we have State guarantee against
salary and promotional loss for public
servants (N.S.W. in particular), a lead
which has been followed by some em-
ployers, notably (I understand) the asso-
ciated banks. Then we have Common-
wealth enforcement of preservation of
employment of volunteers on their return
from service—and some nice little com-
plications that will produce in due course.
Now the State proposes, per medium of
local committees and departmental offi-
cers, to carry on properties for farmers
who enlist; the dental and legal profes-
sions have made somewhat similar
arrangements, but these of course are of
a private nature.
Now what about the thousand and one
other businesses and avenues of employ-
ment? Take the carpenter and the brick-
layer. True, their work is of a casual
nature, but hundreds of them work for
one employer only, going from job to
job without loss of time; some other
“casual” will be permanently in that job
very soon after it is vacant. Take, too,
their employer ; is his business of builder
and contractor, and the goodwill which he
has established with architects and the
public, to be preserved, and, if so, how?
What of the small shopkeeper, the
accountant, the land and estate agent, the
radio, machinery and motor-car dealer
and distributor and their employees,
mostly commission men? There is no
good reason, in principle, why their finan-
cial and economic interests should not be
preserved by the State just as much as
those of the farmer or the public servant.
It seems to me that, if the principle is
admitted at all, we must in fairness apply
that principle universally. If the State
is using public funds for the protection
of the economic and financial interests
of military volunteers, then all military
volunteers, and not only those of a par-
ticular class, should get the benefit. When
that is done, however, we will have built
up a house of cards which the first breath
of the chill wind of the financial liability
involved will demolish.
So let us be honest to start with. If
we face up to facts at once we may be
able to promise something to these volun-
teers that is capable of being carried out
with fairness to all. — Nisio (N.S.W.).
A War Party?
What on earth is this country coming
to when, in the second month of a life-
and-death struggle, an appeal has to be
made through Sydney’s Lud Mayor for
sufficient blankets for the militia —
“shivering with cold at night”?
Why can’t some forward individuals
start a War party to seek election in
the Federal Parliament? We need a
really vigorous Government in power,
strong enough to sweep all State Parlia-
ments into oblivion.
This war will never be won by the
la-di-da tactics now being observed, and
it’s time Australians woke up to the
fact. If we are to go on with the war
then let’s get the country on a real war
footing.— Kant Berra (N.S.W.).
Rank in the Militia
A feature of our present-day defence
system which does not receive the pub-
licity it deserves is the practice of con-
ferring commissions on certain young
men whose military service has been
either non-existent or is confined to the
period undergone in the days when the
community grudgingly submitted to uni-
versal training.
The qualification for these coveted
positions is apparently the social or
financial standing of the applicant.
The deference thus displayed to
affluence rather than ability may have
rather unfortunate repercussions should
our forces be called upon to play their
part in the defence of the Empire.
In days gone by the expensive social
position was undoubtedly of some ac-
count as a prerequisite to commissioned
rank. The extremely limited appropria-
tions for military purposes make this
occupation, for better or worse, one ren-
dered gratuitously or on a stipend so
miserly that it would hardly maintain the
expense of the field sports in which these
gentlemen were obliged to indulge.
To-day, however, the practice, which
operates more frequently than is generally
realised, is an anachronism. There would
also appear to be no real reason entitling
these gentlemen to the position in prefer-
ence to the fellows who have worked for
years with this ambition, only to find that
military experience is not sufficient to
justify its attainment. —E. J. Thwaites
(Vic.).
Propaganda
Propaganda is not, as “E.D.M.” (B.
18/10/’39) suggests, an instrument for
lashing the nation into a frenzy of war
zeal, or any other kind of zeal; nor is it
the repugnant measure that Arthur Falk
(B. 16/8/’39) denounces.
I said (B. 19/7/’39): “We should set
up a Ministry of Propaganda to enlighten
our peoples politically and educate them
to believe that democracy rule (when we
get it) is the best. A pamphlet may save
more lives than a bomb can take.” That
was before the declaration of war, and
now the pamphlet-dropping campaign of
the R.A.F. has proved an excellent
example of the potential value of propa-
ganda as an anti-war measure. That’s
my point!
Propaganda is not “boasting, exag-
geration and artificiality”—the German
brand is merely an effective weapon being
wrongly used. Properly used, propa-
ganda could become the most powerful
force for good that the world has ever
known.
Imagine a vast organisation consisting
of the press, radio, the stage, the movie-
house, backed by intelligent, able men,
all hammering incessantly at the idea that
war is primitive and retrogressive. We
have seen what a tremendous influence
for evil badly-directed propaganda can
be. Isn’t it reasonable to suppose that
a corresponding amount of intellectual
progress might be made by the same
machinery, correctly disposed?— Ell
(N.S.W.).
Bullets of Gold
To me, an old soldier, this war differs
from other wars in that it is being fought
on the “come-and-get-it” system.
Both sides seem to agree with Liddell
Hart when he says “defence is the best
form of attack against modern weapons
of war.” Whether generals will be con-
tent to allow their forces to fight un-
spectacular engagements, casemate versus
casemate, instead of the (to them) more
spectacular open attack in force, I know
not; but it seems to me that this war
will be won by brainy men using gold
“bullets” instead of by brawny men using
nickel-coated lead bullets. It will be
won by statesmen and diplomats the
men who declare wars and arrange terms
of peace—who play their cards in the
game of international affairs in war-time.
To play the game effectively they must
have a plentiful supply of gold to out-
bid their opponents. Have we that gold?
Figures published in the press show
that Britain and France have more gold
than their enemy, or enemies, in the
present state of the war. Australia has
but a small gold reserve in its banks ;
but it cannot be said truthfully that
Australia has not very large gold
reserves in its mines.
Years ago the chairman of the C.S. and
I.R. advised the Federal Government to
dig Australia’s debts out of the goldmines.
Since then much gold has been mined,
but the debts remain unpaid. I suggest,
in the interests of my fellowmen who
are unemployed and my country in its
need for gold, that prospecting for
gold should be systematised; parties
of prospectors should be equipped and
sent to goldbearing centres with the
leadership of practical miners under the
control of officers of the States’ Mines
Departments.
Years of experience on mining fields
prompt me to offer this suggestion.
I believe we could make use of
many old goldfields that were aban-
doned as uneconomical in days when
gold was at the standard price and
methods of mining and treating gold-
bearing ores were somewhat primitive
compared with to-day, when scientific
methods have made gold extraction
greater and the price of gold has reached
more than double its former value. I
hold that one day’s practical experience
at mining under a competent leader
would be of more benefit to a potential
mineowner than a year’s theoretical in-
struction. —ASQ (N.Q.).
Married Men and Youths
“Arev’s” plea for youth in war-time
(B. 11/10/ ’39) will not bear close investi-
gation. It’s not a question of whether
married men or bachelors should bear
the brunt of battle, but one of winning
the war with the greatest possible dis-
patch and with the least possible loss of
man-power. It means, in other words,
that the most able men, whether married
or single, should be the first to take the
field.
What of the respective fighting quali-
ties of married men and single? Who
will agree with “Arev” that a married
man is better fitted to withstand the
perils and temptations that go with war,
or that the fact of marriage makes the
slightest difference to a man’s ability to
shoot a gun straight? “The country that
sends all its single young men to war
is bound to degenerate,” says “Arev” ;
and what would happen to a country that
refused to send any single young men
to war?
In the dim past it was common prac-
tice to have one army of men to popu-
late the country while professional sol-
diers kept the invader away. Then, the
civil population could stand round and
watch the battle’s progress without danger
to themselves. But modem warfare is
a case of all-in, and even women and


children will be expected to pull their
weight.
There is this to be said for “Arev’s”
argument —if married men had their way
there wouldn’t be a war. Nellyn
(N.S.W.).
Knuckleduster in the Glove
The other fellow has had quite a lot
to say about The Bulletin’s style of writ-
ing, and one said that The Bulletin
demands a certain style and refuses to
publish a story not possessing that style.
Unfortunately this is true, and because
certain authors have been able to adapt
themselves to The Bulletin's fixed
demands week after week the fic-
tion pages of my favorite paper dish
out the trials of a boardinghouse-keeper,
the absurdities of an illiterate ratcatcher,
a string of all-the-same “Reacher-Outer-
Bringer-Backer” impossibilities, or some-
thing about a bearded lady who is really
a man.
Here’s hoping that when the S. H.
Prior prize-winner is serialised lovers of
good authorship will once more get some
of the 4H That Swagger excitement and
literary quality, and that the spinners of
stale yarns will be given a long-needed
holiday. Perhaps they’ll come up fresh
again.— Austin McCallum (Vic.).
Do Our Authors Really Fail?
Before condemning Australian authors
for their inability to attract a larger
public or, alternatively, the Australian
public for failing to support its authors,
it might be well to examine the compari-
sons usually made.
To compare Australian conditions with
those of England or America is futile —
not only are their populations greater,
but through the world-wide organisation
of London and New York publishing
houses a market is found abroad for their
authors wherever English is spoken or
understood. The local appeal of the Aus-
tralian author is limited to the compara-
tively small public of Australia and M.L.
Some of the Scandinavian countries
would therefore form a fairer basis of
comparison, and, though I cannot quote
figures, I understand that, except for a
few at the top, authorship in smaller
European countries is anything but profit-
able —almost as unprofitable, in fact, as
in Australia. Yet these countries are in-
tensely conscious of their national litera-
ture.
Strange as it may seem to some recent
O.F.M. contributors, this lack of financial
reward does not deter authors there or
here from writing. Dr. Johnson may
have said that no one but a fool would
write except for money ; but unless some
of the best in literature has been the
work of fools his statement does not bear
examination. Although a writer may
hope to profit incidentally from his efforts
it is something more than the profit
motive that actuates him.
The Australian author, knowing he
has little chance of financial reward what-
ever he turns out, writes largely to please
himself. He will not pretend, for in-
stance, that this is the best of all possible
worlds where each human episode has a
happy-ever-after ending if his experience
has taught him otherwise.
To attempt to assess an author’s worth
from the size of his income is like
trying.to measure heat with a footrule.
Most Australians who read—and their
number is increasing—read the better-
known Australian authors. It is, of
course, deplorable that financial rewards
are inadequate, but these will no doubt
improve as we come of age culturally.—
T. E. P. (N.S.W.).
A.B.C. Cheques
Rates paid for talks delivered through
the national stations require some official
overhaul. At the moment the Commis-
sion can pay as low as £1 12s. 6d. for a
14-minute talk which would be composed
of at least 1500 words, and by the latest
rules talkers must provide a typescript
of the talk in triplicate, and possibly re-
hearse the talk before delivery.
All that involves production of a 4500-
word script and half an hour’s talking (in-
cluding rehearsal), and all for payment
which is far below the A.J.A. award rates
for contributed press matter.
Another inconsistency is an occasional
evening session called “Men Talking,” in
which three men discuss some topical
subject in an informal manner. For this
no script has to be prepared, but each
of the participants to the discussion,
which lasts 14 minutes, is rewarded with
a cheque for three guineas.
Some folk get much higher rates
of pay. For instance, if you come from
the other end of the world and give a
talk in the evening for 14 minutes, the
cheque will be for at least ten guineas.
But if you are a local they keep you
down to the three-guinea level, even for
an evening talk.
If you are a professor, of course,
earning a thousand or so at a univer-
sity and a few hundred on the side from
freelance journalism, they’d probably slip
you a cheque for five guineas or even
more, in spite of the fact that the profes-
sor is a local. It’s time that some of
these folk at A.B.C. headquarters woke
up—N. O. (N.S.W.).
Reorganise the Universities
There’s no doubt about it, univer-
sities love the limelight. Their professors
air their opinions on subjects both within
and without their particular spheres of
knowledge; they believe they can set the
country to rights if only the country
would let them ; and they encourage the
same delusion in students. So, when
students, puffed up with the pride of
their newly-won degrees, emerge from
their academic retreat and try to show
how things should be done, they make
an unholy mess of it.
The whole trouble is that the universities
hold themselves grandly aloof from the
outside world. The professors are mostly
elderly gentlemen who in their youth
followed up a “first” with a lectureship
and have reached middle-age unspotted
by worldly taint. Is it any wonder that
the curricula are crowded with irrelevant,
dry-as-dust trivialities? Even the more
practical subjects—engineering and the
sciences do not fit students to play
their part in the nation’s progress. And
students with little or no knowledge
of life, learning masses of facts without
rhyme or reason, become hopelessly aca-
demic, lacking both in imagination and
the ability to apply their knowledge to
existing conditions.
There is an urgent need of well-trained
men. If the universities are to make
good their claim to be the brains behind
the nation’s progress, drastic changes are
needed. Professors should be required
to have at least ten years’ practical experi-
ence of their subject; no student should
be allowed to begin his studies until he
has had two years’ experience of work-
ing for a living. As long as the univer-
sities are divorced from the outside world
higher education can be of little use. —
Saki (Q.).
Legal Costs
On what basis (if any) are legal ex-
penses calculated? An acquaintance of
mine bought a petrol station for £650,
and the legal expenses incurred in the
transaction, to finance which he was
obliged to mortgage his house, amounted
to £20 —a fee attributed to the trouble
which the solicitors had in tracing the
title to the land on which his house stood.
This year he sold the petrol station
and bought a mixed business, and, of
course, the mortgage still had to stand,
although his finances were in a healthier
position. On that occasion the lawyers
got £43.
This is only an isolated example of
what is going on all over Australia. Since
the Government has so much money to
expend on royal commissions, an inquiry
into legal charges might not be amiss.— ■
N.J.G. (N.S.W.). ■
Our Wasteful, Lavish Land
I was writing a par. on our very obvi-
ous lack of economy, especially now that
the war is on, when I saw in B. 11/10/”39
that “Jayem” had forestalled me.
I think the paper wastage should be
stressed. With a timber shortage likely
and a paper shortage now with us, I was
astonished on a visit to the city to see that
hundreds of papers in hundreds of hotel
and guest-houses were merely used once,
folded and poked into the garbage-tins.
I expected that they would have been
gathered up and sold to some pulping
plant.
Surely there is no other country in the
world as wasteful as Australia. It is
notorious for its extravagant Parliaments
and wastage of public money, for neglect
of the resources that can be found in the
ocean which laps its shore, but the out-
side world would gasp were it fully
acquainted with the facts regarding the
thousands of pounds’ worth of usable
goods annually thrown into the garbage-
tins. — Thugine (N.S.W.).
After the Great War the League of
Nations organised a world-wide investi-
gation of problems of ill-health, and the
findings of experts from all countries
were in agreement to a remarkable
degree. With one voice they declared
that whole populations were in a state
of semi-starvation, not because of actual
scarcity, but because of wrong choice of
foods and unscientific cookery.
Facts and figures proved that some of
the poorest communities were the
healthiest —unable to afford “refined”
dainties, they had been compelled to eat
rough stuff and had benefited by so
doing.
British medical authorities gave the
same opinion, and blamed the low stand-
ard of physique throughout England, not
on war conditions, but on the wrong
menu and on the wrong use of frying-
pan and rolling-pin.
The elaborate international report,
boiled down, states that civilised people
extract and eat only the most useless
parts of their cereals, giving the “offal”
or nutritious parts to the cattle. Citizens
starve in the midst of plenty, and must
eat a lot to obtain a little nourishment.
Now that the question of food is again
so important, it is interesting to note that
it takes two pounds of wholesome wheat
to make one pound of white flour, and
that it costs 3d. per pound to bleach
good sugar and render it comparatively
useless as food.
During the Russo-Japanese war it was
decided to give the little brown soldiers
polished rice as a luxury fit for heroes
to fight on. The dainty dish lowered the
vitality of the warriors and had to be
replaced by the usual unpolished rice to
save the army from slow starvation. In
modern warfare the whole nation is en-
listed in some form of service and still
marches on its stomach, but in spite of
the teachings of history, and against the
advice of the most highly qualified health
experts, we persist in polishing, bleach-
ing and refining almost everything we eat.
Statistics prove that one person in
every three is suffering from some ail-
ment due to malnutrition. A plethora
of patent medicine advertisements prove
the same thing quite unofficially. The
cause is known ; the cure will perhaps
only come when poverty or some other
form of necessity compels us to go back
to nature and commonsense tucker. —
Too Much Starch (S.A.).
“Profiteering”
Take an example:
August 31: Importer holds normal stock-
-1000 packages costing £lO each .. £lO,OOO
Working capital in bank .. .. 2,000
.Normal selling price •• •• 11,000
The importer must not increase normal
selling price, so sells for £ll,OOO. He
now has no goods and £13,000 in bank.
He must replace normal stock or go
out of business. It now costs £l5 per
package to do this. Result: 1000 pack-
ages of goods identical with that held
at August 31, but now has an overdraft
at bank for £2OOO. (Has also to borrow
the money to pay wages and other ex-
penses.)
Later, upon return to normal con-
ditions, when these goods again cost
£lO,OOO, will there be legislation to enable
importer to sell these goods for £16,000?
There won’t, so he will be obliged to sell
them for £ll,OOO —the market value.
This was abundantly proved after the
last war.
All right. He sells for £ll,OOO, so
after meeting his £2OOO overdraft he has
£9OOO in the bank. He replaces his 1000
packages for £lO,OOO, and is back where
he started from, but now owes his bank
£lOOO where he previously had £2OOO
working capital at his credit.
Net result —a loss of £3OOO, plus his
wages and other costs of selling both
lots of goods.—H. L. (N.Q.).
One Man, One Job
Much of the trouble and unemploy-
ment in this country is due, not only to
the unequal distribution of wealth, but
also to the unequal distribution of work.
When there are so many men out of
work it is hard to understand why any
Government allows one man to hold
more than one position in any sphere
over which the Government can exercise
any control.
Yet to-day we find civil servants hold-
ing two, three and even more well-paid
positions and drawing a salary for each,
any one of which would be sufficient to
keep a man and his family. The same
thing is seen in private and semi-Govern-
ment concerns.
For instance, a professorship at a uni-
versity carries with it a salary large
enough to satisfy the needs of most men,
even for luxurious living, but to-day we
find well-paid university professors writ-
ing lengthy articles for the press and fill-
ing in their spare time broadcasting talks
over the radio, and thus getting paid for
three jobs.
Of course, it is not only university pro-
fessors who are doing this sort of thing.
It is going on all round us, and is not only
unfair to many men who could and
would take some of these jobs and do
them efficiently, but it indicates that the
quality of at least some of the individual’s
work must suffer. A man who holds a
public or even a semi-public position
should give of his best in that particular
sphere, and to do that he cannot devote a
large part of his time to other pursuits.
—Eureka (N.S.W.).
The Wool Price
Growers have been absolutely dis-
gusted with the Menzies hush-hush policy
in connection with the wool price. And
propaganda has made the public, which
knows what a good wool price means to
business generally, believe that the price
is quite good.
The Commonwealth Wool Inquiry
Committee, which assessed the cost ot
growing wool for the season 1930-31,
made it 13.97 d. per pound. This cost in-
cludes interest on capital at 5 p.c. Capital
is arrived at by basing value of a sheep
area at £3, which to me appears low, as
the Federal land tax valuers say the
unimproved capital value of a sheep area
is between 255. and 325. 6d., and in most
instances improvements cost well over
£2. But let us accept the £3. After 1931
costs were reduced until 1933, when they
again rose.
The N.S.W. Graziers’ Association has
put cost of production, worked on the
same basis, at 13.587 d. per pound on
June 30, 1939, figures, or 0.15 d. more
than estimated price under appraisement.
This means that the grower will make a
smaller return on capital, actually 4.8 p.c.
on £3 per sheep area, provided the costs
remain the same.
Much the same return that could be
obtained by investing money in the safest
shares, such as banks and breweries.
Banks and breweries, however, are not
directly subject to the risks of the grazing
industry, such as drought, fire, flood and
flies. Actually, the woolgrower is asked
to carry on for a return that the pro-
prietor of a suburban grocery shop would
laugh at. In addition, the growers have
just come through a season of drought in
which the wool clip was lighter than for
many years and the price averaged
10.39 d. per pound.
Further, according to bank returns and
information from concerns that finance
growers, there is now more money lent
to the industry than even in the depths
of the depression.
Prices of food (tea, for instance) and
clothing have already risen. This means
not only a rise in station-hands’ wages—
they have to live—but a rise in wages all
round. This means that, as The Bulle-
tin forecasts, all costs will rise. Inexcus-
able State taxation will further increase
costs, so that already it begins to look
as if in the first year of appraisement the
grower will make very little, if any,
return on the capital invested. — Vernon
(N.S.W.).
Respect the Farmer
A tendency in Australia to deprecate
the man on the land finds expression in
such terms as “cocky,” “wirewhiskers” and
“Dad and Dave.” The rural people are
regarded as simple people who, when
they visit the city, must be warned by and
against their cleverer town cousins.
There is no need for the farmer to have
an inferiority complex, and there should
be no social disparity between those en-
gaged in rural pursuits and those engaged
in other industries. Agriculture is fast
becoming a science, and there are few
farmers who don’t take advantage of soil
analysis, herd-testing and study of finer
points of breeding.
Most farmers’ sons, if they do not
attend public schools, at least go on to
High School, and some to an agricultural
college and some to a university.
The average farmer is a highly efficient
man with extensive knowledge of culti-
vation and production, and also scien-
tific knowledge of soil values, fertiliser,
breeding, pasture improvement, finance
and economic problems governing the
laws of supply and demand. He has, in
fact, a comprehensive knowledge and
judgment surpassed by few in any walk
of life. —R. McL (T. 1.).
A Newspaper Competition
An Adelaide newspaper recently ran a
“springtime photographic competition”
that brought forth a record bag of nearly
a thousand entries. Being a newcomer
to this State, and full of hope, I sent in
my half-dozen entries. No prize came
my way, but that is beside the point, as
the competition was judged by Adelaide’s
leading art expert, who undoubtedly
knows his job.
However, one of my entries having
been published on the back page, I wrote
to the accountant, having waited two
months for payment, and received the
astounding reply that the paper never
paid for competition entries which it pub-
lished. Also, my prints were ruined by
being returned with a permanent wave
across their middles, thus preventing my
sending them out again—this despite the
fact that with each entry a piece of thin
cardboard, plus sufficient stamps, had
been enclosed for return. Is there no
photographic award or law in Australia
to prevent such happenings?—Selma
Whittaker (S.A.).


d
SOLDIER’S WATCH
ď
DUSTPROOF
WATERPROOF
SHOCKPROOF
Ideal for Out-
doors. Essentially
a man’s watch.
Not affected by
tropical climes.
Guaranteed., and
13 months’ free
service.
Usually 75/-. Special to
“Bulletin” Readers, Post Free.
67/6
Send for free illustrated watch and
diamond ring* catalogue.
diamond
S- WATCH
SPECIALISTS
đ
112 MARKET ST.
i SYDNEY,
OPR DAVIPJONES
The GREAT WESTERN SADDLE
75/- BARE
{Mounts 10/ extra .)
A splendidly - mad<
saddle into which the
best workmanship and
materials have gone.
Note the deep channel
illustrated in the sec-
tional drawing. This
enables a cool draught
of air to pass along
the horse’s back.
Freight Free in N.S.W.
Write for FREE
Saddlery Catalogue.
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
18-20 WILSON ST., NEWTOWN, N.S.W.
fg
“FRIG-ETTE” PORTABLE
ICE CHESTS
m'
(CORK INSULATED)
Ideal for picnics, motor
tours, sporting and all
outdoor uses. Available
in two sizes.
SENIOR Model, capacity
4 bottles and food box
or 8 bottles without food
box, PRICE 39/6.
JUNIOR Model, capacity
6 bottles (without food
box), PRICE 39/6.
Senior Model All Stores or direct from
J. HICKMER & SONS PTY. LTD.,
150—152 Brighton Street, Richmond, El, Vic.
ĝ
a
Crushes ice, fine]'
medium and coarse.
Working parts of
Stainless Steel.
Ideal for Hotels,
Hospitals, Caf 6 s,
Modern Homes.
Price (post free),
49/6 J
AMPL/O/V (ASIA) PTY.ITD.,
382 KENT STREET SYDNEY
DEAF!
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing,
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW I
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. * G. Building, Park St.. SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
tsg;*2
STOPvo Uß ßupture
d
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/'3B
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
comfort. To prove this we offer
-14 DAYS FREE TRIAL-
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Musical Instruments
ga
for 57/6
We will send you a BANJO-
MANDOLIN Complete Outfit
with Case, Correspondence
Course and Extra Strings for
57/6.
We guarantee you will be able
to play tunes within 7 days,
otherwise .your full money will
be returned. Goods can be
sent C.O.D.
THE TALKERIES
Ml Castlereagh St., Sydney.
mm
€mmri
&
KS
r V>\[
m
STOP*
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single wire fence
ma d e absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 In use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street, Sydney.
& m
17/6
EA small deposit now
will secure for you a
d
PIPE
Beautifully
Packed.,
Honestly
worth 30/-.
Special Price
to “Bulletin”
readers, 17/6.
Goods Sent C.O.D. if desired.
Send 6d. in stamps for Liberal Sample of
“leyysown” Quality Tobacco in Fine Cut
or Pipe at 7/- per lb., worth 10/- per lb.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 lvs. pkt., 2/4 per doz. pkts.
SOL
Established 39 Years.
713 George St., Sydney.
THE
WOMAN’S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
CHARCOAL GAS
The Minister for Defence has notified the
public that plans have been made for the
substitution in “an emergency” of Charcoal
Gas units on Military Transport equipment
in Australia. WHY WAIT FOR THIS
“EMERGENCY”?
Any handy man can make his own efficient gas
plant—from the crude oil drum type to the
latest design— to operate tractors, cars, trucks,
or any type of spark plug engine.
No alterations to the engine are necessary, and
you can run on petrol or charcoal gas at will.
My simple plans and instructions, which can be
purchased for £l, show you how to do the job
cheaply and save 90 p.c. on Fuel Costs.
F, MAHER, 178 O’Connell St., Sydney.
I*l
LLkJLk
m
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing l aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible—
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Write for Booklet Snite 60 1 K, City Mutual
Building, cnr. Hunter & Bligh Sts.., Sydney ;
and at 116 Collins Street. Melbourne.
PRGF
STOVES
Famous throughout Victoria since 1907.
i The patent adjustable grate in “PAGE”
stoves may be adjusted into three posi—
tions for (1) baking, (2) grilling, or (8)
1 boiling and frying.
| Write to-day for a free illustrated cata-
| logue of these wonder cookers to
Page Manufacturing Co.,
Gheringhnp Street, Geelong, Victoria.
USE LESS FUEL
Bargains in Military Surplus Stocks
FIREMAN’S BOOTS. N.S.W. Fireman’s best quality
Leather Wellington Boots. Genuine issue. Part
worn, only 9/6 per pair.
RIFLES. Genuine B.S.A. MILITARY 310 Rifles,
in brand-new condition; original cost, £7/10/-.
NOW ONLY 21/-, complete with Sights, Protector,
Distance Gauge, 600 yards. A Genuine Bargain.
200 Pairs Military PACK SADDLE BAGS, brand-
new, made of the best English leather; size 27in.
x l7in. Worth £7/10/-. TO CLEAR, ONLY
| £2/5/- per pair.
200 Military ROPE TRACES, leather-bound. Also
suitable Car Tow Ropes, Bft. 6in. long, 5/6 each;
10/- per pair, NEW.
300 Military TORCH LAMPS, can also be used for
Morse signalling, 3/6 each.
Military SHEATH KNIVES, 7/6 each.
HARRY MITCHELL,
Dept. B, 246 George Street, Sydney.
(Licensed Govt. Dealer for over 25 years.)
TARZAN’S GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
and parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
g
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tarzan’6 Grip Manufacturing
Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Willoughby ltoad,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES, 1/-
OIL HEAT
BATH HEATER
Burning- Fuel
Oil, the Cheapest
Fuel known.
A Hot Bath for
a third of a
penny.
Catalogue Free*
Sands’ “Handi”
Fumpless Iron.
Lamps .of All
Kinds.
a
T. W. SANDS
387 LONSDALE ST., MELBOURNE
d
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are'
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 Minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
‘ 54 Common
Errors in English”
The lip-perfect method
of correction by imitation,
repetition and reasoning.
The training corrects the errors so
definitely and conclusively that the
pupil speaks correctly without thought
and without self-consciousness. The
chapter “Easy Speaking” shows how to
find the proper pitch and how to im-
prove intonation, resonance and accent.
The Course is taught by post. Particu-
lars from E. H. Welford, 396 Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.
JfINCHESTIR
ga
TWIN-SERVICE
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-CeII, 1500 ft.
Range
3-cell, 350ft. nr/
Range ....
Complete with Batteries,
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KING ST., SYDNEY.
NEVER LOSE A FISH.
THE BULL DOG
FISH HOOK
A SURE GRIPPER.
A nibble sets it off and hooks the
fish safely. The hook springs
wide open directly the bait is
taken. Strong, simple, nothing to
go out of order.
Sold in three sizes.
Price 1/3 each, post free.
Obtainable only from
THE UNION MFG. CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb., C.l.
d
UlLi
7^
7=^
:T-
This MODERN DESIGN 15-jewel Swiss
TITUS Gent’s (or Rady's) Wristlet Watch.
It has RADIUM dial, polished chrome and
stainless steel case and carries written
guarantee. DON’T SEND MONEY —pay
only 60/- on delivery (in Gold-filled Case,
80/-). Write for particulars of other models.
EENNOX ADVERTISING SERVICE,
Grace Building, 77 York Street, SYDNEY.
The DUNLEAVY DIAGRAM
(BEG.)
A framework
to simplify
and improve
boxing, with
directions. Acts
as a self-
instructor.
JACK
i DONLEAVY,
| Box 1791 K,
1g.P.0., Sydney.
Write
for
FREE
ROOK
) Writ© (
for I
FREE
BOOK
MEMOR's^thEASE
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Make your brain accurate, creative,
dynamic. Handle men and affairs.
Reconstruct yourself for efficiency
with the Leeds Method.
Booklet Free. Write—-
Rev. W. Rowlands, 12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
POST THIS SLIP NOW
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of .The Bulletin every week
for one year so that I do not miss a single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular annual
supbscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
0 Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
IN ORDER TO AVOID
MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK’S ISSUE OF
YOUR FAVORITE
WEEKLY
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
1/10/’39 (See Page 38)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


WELL PAID JOBS
FOR DIESEL
OPERATORS
vm
BIG CHANGE
OVER TO DIESEL
MORE OPERATORS WANTED
To-day is the Diesel Age!
There has been a pronounced swing to Diesel
engines during the past few years.
With many truck manufacturers the bulk of
their output is now Diesel, while more and
more Diesel-powered buses are being placed
in service every month.. Because of its greater
economy, moreover, a large number of mines
and power plants are changing over to Diesel.
As a result of the overseas position it is
expected that the number of power users
changing to Diesel will be greatly increased
in the immediate future because Diesel fuel
is safer, easier to transport in time of war
and more economical.
Instruction in Diesel for
mechanised military units
In war-time as in peace-time it’s the skilled men
who get the best pay. Specialists in the army get
far more pay and enjoy far better conditions than
unskilled men. The fact that Diesel engines play a
big part in the mechanised armies of to-day is just
another reason why you should qualify as a Diesel
operator.
.. Trained by the Diesel Engineering College
Read These Typical Examples: —
FILE No. 34a. OBTAINED POSITION 28/3/’39. WAGES £7 PER WEEK.
Formerly earning £4/5/- per week. Commenced training June, 1938. Received Diesel Engineering
College Diploma February, 1939. Obtained above position 2S/3/’39.
FILE No. 35a. OBTAINED POSITION 5/6/’39. SALARY £3O PER MONTH
AND KEEP. Completely trained by the Diesel Engineering College. Appointed Diesel 2nd
Engineer, Island Vessel, 5/6/’39.
FILE No. 36a. OBTAINED POSITION 29/6/’39. SALARY £9 PER WEEK.
As Diesel salesman. Had no former engineering knowledge. Completely trained by the Diesel
Engineering College.
asdf
Can Qualify As a
Diesel Operator In Your
Spare Time At Home
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering and you don’t need any high educational
standard. The Diesel Engineering College course teaches you the whole subject, covering both
transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel (mining and other power plants).
The course has been prepared with the co- operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the
Diploma awarded you on completion is recognised by employers all over Australia. Post the
coupon below and full details will be sent you by return.
The Diesel Engineering College MAKES
LEARNING EASY— NO TEXTBOOKS
This College does not sell you a pile of textbooks and leave you- to wade through them, nor does it
fill you up with a lot of complicated mathematics. It teaches you just what you need to know to
operate and service Diesel engines efficiently. As soon as you enrol, practical coaches take
you in hand. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-followed instruction papers and
diagrams. Everything is made clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel. Many students have qualified for positions in as short a period
as four months. The fees are low and payments easy.
THE D.E.C. TEACHES DIESEL ONLY
All the Efforts of the Diesel Engineering College are devoted to Diesel Students
A wonderful future lies ahead in Diesel engineering for ambitious men who get in early with the proper training.
But you must be properly trained. The success of Diesel Engineering College students at Government examinations
tells its own story of the thoroughness of training at this College. As the Diesel Engineering College rtiaintains
branches at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth students are assured that they will obtain individual attention
wherever they live.
sadfsdf
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. l/11/’3».
sdaf
Those who get in early reach
the top first. Tear off and post
this coupon now for the free
booklet describing the Diesel
Engineering College course. There is no obli-
gation, so don’t- put it off! The best intentions
in the world are useless if you don’t ACT!
DIESEL ENGINEERING
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE
PERTH
