

E THAT YOU
BEFORE
** ' v ' *■
mm
as
;11*
m
mm
iigllgg
im
m
Ml
W'J&l
£ &
I'#
■
:
m
i
ifll
M
MODELS 61 AND
62
Milliard Models 61 &62
Tone that will delight you; overseas reception
that will amaze you; beauty of design that will
give you a joy of ownership never before experi-
enced. Everywhere Radio Engineers agree that
these new Mullard additions to an already out-
standing range are the finest from every point
of view.
AS GOOD IN THE COUNTRY AS
IN TOWN
Hundreds of these Mullard Sets have been sold
since their release a short time ago. Country
listeners are as enthusiastic over their Battery-
operated Radio as the townsmen with their All-
electric Sets. They agree they’re the best sets
yet. Every new and worthwhile improvement is
incorporated. The dial—Vertiscale markings
with horizontal pointer—is a revelation in
tuning-in simplicity.
Equipped with Volume, Tone and Tuning
Controls, Wave Change Switch, Dynamic
Speaker, etc.
Prices: Mullard 61 (A.C. Mains) .... 21 Gns.
Mullard 62 (Battery-operation) 24 Gns.
Mullard Model 62 (Vibrator
Power) 29 Gns.
DON KNOCK
of
“THE BULLETIN”
gives these goods
his highest
recommendation
Warranty: All Sets are covered
by the comprehensive Mullard
Guarantee for a period of
twelve months.
Mallard
Still More Radio to the £
The New—Amazing
MULLARDETTE COMPACT RADIO
Model 42.—You wouldn’t credit how such BIG
performance could come from such a little Radio
—it is only 1 Oin. long, high and sin. deep,
but how it will entertain you is AMAZING.
The Cabinet is of moulded Zonite, designed to
please the most fastidious taste. Burr walnut is
the standard colour, but it is also obtainable in
Ivory and Jade Green (1 Gn. extra). The dial
includes Station Callsigns separated into State
Zones. Operates on 200/260 volts A.C. Equipped
latest type Octal-base Mullard Master Valves.
Price, 12 Gns.
A Model to Suit Every Family Requirement
SNOW QUEEN ELECTRIC REFRIGERATORS
These Emmco products embody every improvement in modern refrigeration.
Compare them for price, efficiency and storage capacity, and you will be satisfied
that SNOW QUEEN offer you, the best values in Refrigerators available.
Prices range from £52/15/-; easy terms available.
PRINCESS ELECTRIC WASHERS
The advanced designs, beauty and finish, and sturdy mechanical qualities of the
Princess range have made them first favourites among thousands of Australian users.
Prices of these efficient washers are definitely within reach of the most modest' home
budget, Full details on request. Also available with Ironing Attachment.
WELDON HOUSEHOLD ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES
t$T
rmi *s#pS ■ s.
MULLARD MODEL 43A. ■■““Graceful, modern to the
moment, moulded one-piece Cabinet in a new style and design.
Extended wave-bands conform with 1940 standards. Clear vision
Vertiscale with straightline Condenser gives equal separation of
all Stations. Equipped with the latest types Mullard Master Radio-
valves. Glorious tonal quality, superb selectivity and sensitivity,
plus fully compensating A.V.C. Dimensions: x 9-|in. x 7in.
A full range for selection. EASY TERMS AVAILABLE. Price (A.C. Mains), 14 Gns.
Wholesale Distributors for N.S.W.:
BLOCH & GERBER LTD.
WITH WHICH IS ASSOCIATED
THE WELDON ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO.
46-48 YORK STREET. SYDNEY - - - - - - 'Phones: MA 6291 (10 lines)
The Bulletin
The New A.I.F.
Vol. 60.—N0. 3121.
Wednesday, December 6, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


aim
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please «( ud, without obligation, your New Tree
Itipp. Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
your Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised m the Sydney Btn.umx.
My Name
My A ddress
S.B. 139
DYMOCK’S CHRISTMAS CATALOGUE
—Packed with the best books of the day.
Also gift stationery. Post free anywhere.
Write for one now!
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
"The Block, 424-426 George St., Sydney.
The Red Page
SCARECROW DICTATOR.
Two more novelists having a potshot at
Hitler, and in both cases the marksman-
ship excellent: Ethel Vance in Escape
(Collins; Angus and Robertson) writes
a powerful concentration camp story;
Clemence Dane in The Arrogant History
of White Ben (Heinemann ; F. W. Preece,
Ltd.), bringing a scarecrow to life and
setting him up as dictator of England,
bitterly attacks both the leader and the
mob that swallows his catchcries.
White Ben is a brilliant conception.
England is supposed to be at the end of a
long war, exhausted, desperately in need
of leadership. White Ben, the giant scare-
crow who stands upon his hilltop flap-
ping his arms in impotent anger at the
crows, comes miraculously to life and,
like Frankenstein’s monster, begins to
stalk through the countryside. He is never
to lose the memory of country peace, but
he feels that he is a man of destiny.
The crows must be destroyed, the
rookeries burned. When he meets people
and tells them with savage conviction,
“There must be no crows in our skies!”
they think he is talking in parables, speak-
ing of enemy aeroplanes, of the Govern-
ment, of the financiers, of anything or
anyone on whom they choose to focus
their hatred. They begin to follow him.
Intuitions from the borrowed clothes
he wears, the voices of the dead in a
graveyard, the conversation of his first
supporters, lead him gradually to the
knowledge that there are human crows,
and his mission of destruction is diverted
from birds to men. But he never has any
clear idea of what a human crow looks
like ; he supposes that, like the birds, they
wear black, and so he and his followers,
wearing white uniforms, murder everyone
who dares to wear dark clothes.
The book moves on two planes—fan-
tasy and actuality—without any uneasi-
ness. Ben, though the parallel with Hitler
gives him a remote connection with
reality, is always a creature of fantasy.
On that level he is a perfectly acceptable
figure, reminding one both of Franken-
stein’s monster and of Steinbeck’s gigan-
tic idiot in Of Mice and Men. After a
march on London, accompanied by fire
and terror, he takes up residence in West-
minster Abbey, sometimes overcome with
remorse for his crimes, sometimes weep-
ing in self-pity at his loneliness, some-
times glorying in his power among the
dead kings, haunted always by the
memory of his hilltop. In the end, when
he has murdered his friends through fear,
he goes back to the country, becomes a
scarecrow again and is torn to pieces by
children.
His associates —the businessmen, poli-
ticians and adventurers who use him as
a stepping-stone to power—are as satis-
factory in life as he is in fantasy. There
are both comedy and tragedy in their rela-
tions with Ben and with one another. In
spite of its horrors, the general effect of
the book is pleasant, partly because Miss
Dane writes charmingly of the country-
side, partly because every writer who
creates a Caliban seems to grow fond of
him.
Escape is a much more conventional
anti-Hitler book and a much more
sombre one. Its mechanics are of the
simplest: Emmy Ritter, who has indulged
in anti-Nazi propaganda from America,
has come to Germany, fallen into the
hands of the Gestapo, and lies danger-
ously ill in a concentration camp await-
ing execution ; her son, arriving in search
of her, has (1) to find out where she is,
(2) get her out of the camp and (3) get
her out of the country. All of which
he does: but it’s an extremely difficult
and exciting task, guaranteed to keep any
reader in a state of suspense until the
last chapter of a long book.
On the debit side Escape has innumer-
able long conversations in which every-
body talks about Life, but on the credit
side it has a queer love affair between
a stiff-necked, secretly-suffering general
and a countess who loves
his suffering soul, but would
like to wring his stiff neck.
When the general discovers
that the lady has aided the
escape, the love-or-duty
scene is written with remarkable power.
More Murdoch.
Professor Murdoch offers his new book
of essays On the Spur of the Moment
(Angus and Robertson) with the warning
that it was written in a time of crisis and
has a touch of gloom. A more accurate
apology—for even when he is serious he
writes too pleasantly to be called
“gloomy”—would have said that there’s
a bit too much sermonising and that the
sermonising is of a familiar kind.
The necessity for Australianism rather
than imported “isms” ; the necessity for
democracy to exert itself if it is to sur-
vive ; the tragedy of poverty in the midst
of plenty; the weakness of the education
system; the sin of swank and the crime
of crooning: these are some of the essay-
ist’s subjects. It is all worth saying and
it is well said —but it has been said
before.
Several of the essays escape from
current politics: a comparison of the
characters of Shakspeare and Milton;
a plea for the republication of a for-
gotten novel of Trollope; an account
of heroism in a mine in Westralia; a
study of Judas ; “David Copperfield Re-
visited” ; an appreciation of F. Anstey,
who wrote Vice Versa.
Professor Murdoch is completely at
home in the essay form, and each of
these, from the humorous opening para-
graph to the final witticism, is a delight-
ful piece of writing. When he takes
liberties with the form he is invariably
successful: you get about half-way
through “Beasts in the Basement” before
you realise that the donkey, the jaguar,
the porcupine and the cobra are" the
forces of the unconscious mind ; and “One-
legged Island,” a fantasy in the Gulliver
tradition, is a little gem of satire.
Artist's Portraits.
Jacques-Emile Blanche’s More Portraits
of a Lifetime (Dent) includes among its
illustrations some of the artist’s paintings
of British literary celebrities—particularly
good ones of Virginia Woolf, whom he
enormously admires, and James Joyce,
whom he somewhat despises.
He writes almost as well, though not
so clearly and constructively, as he has
painted. This book isn’t as good as his
earlier Portraits of a Lifetime, but is
nevertheless interesting. It outlines the
artist’s life among other artists and
writers in France and England from 1918
to 1938, darting about from person to
person and topic to topic. Some of the
people are worth writing about, but most
of them haven’t the picturesque quality
of Beardsley and the rest of the crew
depicted in the first book.
Though more disjointed here, comment
is as sharp as ever; sometimes devas-
tating. Some gleanings:—-
Woodrow Wilson.— lndescribable, his
expression of cunning, artificial majesty
and scorn.
Arnold Bennett. —ln spite of his
charm and apparent optimism, Bennett,
whose dreadful stammer seemed to rob
him of breath, made those who were not
familiar with his painful affliction fear that
he might choke. I felt drawn towards
him, notwithstanding his somewhat
common humor and his self-satisfaction.
Galsworthy.— His haughty attitude to-
wards his country neighbors made him
somewhat ridiculous. One morning I
passed him on the road to Arundel
dressed as if he were going to ride in
Rotten Row. In France we should have
called him gros bourgeois de province, a
parvenu who affected the airs and graces
of a grand seigneur of bygone times.
George Moore. —Money! Everyone
knew that it was the eternal and urgent
preoccupation of this prosperous gentle-
man from Edbury-street.
James Joyce and “Ulysses.” — l am
not ashamed to confess that on the various
occasions when I have attempted to read
the English text of Ulysses without skip-
ping, I have found it a most wearing occu-
pation. Andre Gide asserted that he,
Joyce, was a sham great writer and that
Ulysses was a sham masterpiece.
Joyce sat for the very good painting
Blanche did of him; Blanche’s pen-
portrait based on those sittings suggests
Public Poseur No. 1. For good measure
he adds that Joyce’s “conversation con-
sisted of ill-natured comments.” As with
his brush, so, too, with his nib he can
serve them up in groups:
The delicately adjusted sensibility of Vir-
ginia Woolf is beyond the range of such
as Joyce, or of Aldous Huxley, the
novelist of the peace or despair.
There is a very sympathetic descrip-
tion of Katherine Mansfield, more de-
tailed than most of the nib-portraits in
the book. There is a French chivalry
in his descriptions of most of the women
characters compared with those of the
men. He is particularly severe on George
Moore, though Moore appears to have
deserved it. He allows that Moore
wrote beautiful English prose. He keeps
reverting to Virginia Woolf: his paint-
ing of her is the frontispiece ; he ac-
knowledges her influence on his literary
method: “.... her constant leaping to
and fro in time accords with the impres-
sions I wish to convey in my own recol-
lections.”
Leaping is right. A hungry honeyeater
could learn a lot from M. Blanche.
Lady with Humor .
Nancy Johnstone has written a capital
sequel to her Hotel in Spain. The
new one — Hotel in Flight (Faber and
Faber ; Angus and Robertson) —describes
how the hotel she and her husband —a
Fleet-street couple—built at Tossa, near
Barcelona, fared while Franco’s side
was approaching ; how meanwhile it was
turned into a refuge for Spanish children
under her care ; and how, when Bar-
celona fell, they all fled to France.
Between times she had gone back to
England and had written a book which
her publishers declined to publish. She
agrees that they were right; it was a
bad book, and they would have been
woolly-headed to publish it. She would
so agree; she is a woman of nous.
Very ardent supporters of Franco will
disagree with her slight political out-
bursts. She gets as near to being nasty
as she could get over Mr. Chamberlain.
She was placed on the anti-Franco
side, lived among its people and was and
is very fond of them. They—as human
beings—are her main interest. The most
cutting portrait in her book is of an im-
ported Communist commissar. All the
people she likes, viewing them,
and the war as well, humorously.
Only one thing she can’t be for long,
and that is solemn. Her humor is so
insistent that nothing else matters, except
her charming portraits of Spaniards,
which her humor greatly enhances. She
writes of the guardias : —
They sometimes arrived in large cars
with POLICIA written neatly on them: then
we knew they were not being secret police
that day. But when the same men arrived
casually by bus, one knew they were on
business and it was tactless to greet them
as old friends....A secret policeman was
instantly recognisable because he invari-
ably wore a very Barcelona suit with a
black trilby pulled well over one eye.
She says it was quite impossible to
explain to the good-natured Catalans “the
difference between a Nazi and a German
Jewish refugee. Tossa had had both.
Both had run away at the first signs of
danger and neither had paid their debts.”
Portrait of a scribe, “a young man
called Stevens,” who “had hardly a word
of Spanish” ;
Archie [her husband] had met him in the
early days in Barcelona. He had come
to Spain to fight for the Right and/or
write, for the press. He decided that
writing for the press was easier, but it
seemed he was not popular among his col-
leagues... .Archie showed him a story in
“Vanguardia” about some Barcelona
celebrity who had died from appendicitis
(“victima de un atac apendicular”) and
told him, “That’s a real flowery Spanish
way of describing someone getting a direct
hit from a bomb. Rather absurd when
you think that bombs never drop perpen-
dicularly.”
Stevens cabled the story. At least, he
handed it in and paid for the cable, but
the censors stopped it.
Is Mrs. Johnstone sure about that?
We seem to have read that one—-or, at
all events, much better ones—from Bar-
celona. What nobody read at the time
was a genuine, human story, with the
stamp of truth on it, such as her own.
Maxwell Anderson, the Yankee play-
wright whose “Elizabeth the Queen” has
been produced at Sydney Minerva, is
trying to prove he’s a reincarnation of
Shakspeare. But it’s doubtful if he’ll make
the same reputation as a poet, for the
blank verse in which “The Masque of
Kings,” “Winterset” and the present play
are written is curiously thin for all its
competence ; his most telling lines, such
as Elizabeth’s lament that when Essex
died an empty sun would set on an empty
earth and she’d be “queen of emptiness,”
are negative images, lacking the positive
richness of the Shakspearean imagery.
Nevertheless, he’s an exceptionally good
playwright, and he has the courage to
write straight, stageable plays in contrast
to the rather “arty” symbolical dramas
that have come from Auden and other
young English poets. In “Winterset” he
relied on the gunmen’s names and a
carefully selected vocabulary to give the
Shakspearean touch; “Elizabeth the
Queen” is a more obvious attempt to
invoke the ghost of the Bard —the play
resembles Shakspeare’s historical pieces,
it is set in Shakspeare’s own period, and
a scene from “Henry IV.” is included.
Mrs. E. Marie Irvine calls her Certain
Worthy Women (New Century Press) a
“gallery of vignette portraits.” The
“worthy women” left no sense in this
reader’s mind of his having met any
living person, as a vignette should do. To
present the compressed life histories of
23 white and two black women of the
early days, Mrs. Irvine went to enormous
trouble in research, was obviously moved
deeply by her own conceptions of what
they did, wrote a competent preface and
then: “She does not seem to have been
well dowered with this world s goods.
Indeed, her people appear to have been
of very modest means, and she probably
enjoyed nothing more than an elemen-
tary education” —of Mrs. W. C. Went-
worth. “In point of fact, Martha was
not by any means the most pious of the
Marsden sisters, and at one time there
was some uneasiness as to her religious
views.’''
Jacques-Emile Blanche, in More Por-
traits of a Lifetime (he seems to have
been writing in about 1936-37): “The
‘lnternationale,’ whose verses have in
France taken the place of the ‘Marseil-
laise’ and to which the masses listen with
arms raised and closed fists (a gesture
of hatred), dates from the Commune of
1871. It was written by a certain work-
man called Pottier, a poet and musician.
The level of his production is on a par
with his bloodthirsty and sadistic in-
spiration.”
Under London : F. L. Stevens (Dent).
Here’s a posy of subterranean passages—
tunnels, crypts, wine-catacombs, on to
air-raid shelters. Finsbury is sinking one
of these last 34ft. under ground level.
Costs £263,000; holds 12,000 humans.
The Sea Tower: Hugh Walpole (Mac-
Millan). Beautiful girl marries dark,
handsome young man who brings her
to his ancestral home and his monu-
mental mother; mother has already de-
voured her husband, her two sons, the
servants and a spell-bound seafarer; be-
gins to subdue daughter-in-law; daugh-
ter-in-law doesn’t like it, so one stormy
night the old lady attacks her with a
red-hot poker.
Trance by Appointment: G. E.
Trevelyan (Harrap). Novel about a
medium called Jean whose “control” was
a che-ild called Daisy. The pathos and
the squalor of petty seances. Well done,
but it’s written in a feminine baby-talk
that makes you want to chop down a tree
or talk bluntly to a bullock.
The Two Wives: Frank Swinnerton
(Hutchinson). The marital and extra-
marital complications of Sam Barnabas,
a middle-aged actor. Good “domestic”
novel.
Vengeance Of?, by John Wallace
(Crime Book Co., Melbourne; George
Batchelor), and The Last Thug, by Louis
de Wohl (Methuen). Passable thrillers.
The first, by “the Australian successor
to the famous Edgar,” has a neat enough
mystery which the average reader should
unravel a long way ahead of the detec-
tive ; the other relies for its thrills on a
Yogi who makes a fleeting but sensational
appearance in Paris. In each the heroine
is named Diana, whatever that may
signify. Wallace is fast making a name
for himself with this sort of thing.
There’s a new one by him already on
the stocks. "2
The Lessons and Gospels for Lent.
From the Roman Missal; introduction
by Fr. Conrad Pepler, 0.P.; beautifully
printed by Hague and Gill and published
for them by Dent and Sons. “Here,”
says Fr. Pepler, “we have the best of all
reading ; the Scriptures selected accord-
ing to a definite plan” ; which plan his
nicely-written introduction explains.
From Hector Dinning’s Australian
Scene;
The normal speech of the Australian has
three unquestionable characteristics: it has a
general nasal quality; it is slovenly in the
detail of enunciation; and it is without rhythm.
There are other minor variable characteristics,
but these three in conjunction will mark down
the Australian anywhere. No one at the war,
hearing a typical Englishman speaking in a
pitch-black trench, could have failed to identify
him; and no one could conceivably have con-
fused an English Tommy with a Digger in
the same circumstances Australians drawl;
there is no English precision in their speech.
It gives an impression of chronic tiredness
The slovenly speech of Australians is no doubt
bound up also with the physical lassitude in-
duced by their climate.
The demands of warfare gave scope for the
peculiar native qualities in which Australians
excel —physical prowess, initiative, cunning,
subtlety and resource. These qualities are by
no means all that make up the ideal citizen —
though they may go far towards making a
success of life in Australia.
It’s deplorable, but it’s true, that the Aus-
tralian undergraduate has pretty often a keen
eye to the main chance —as expressed in the
degree; that he lacks much of the spirit that
makes for browsing and soaking himself in
the atmosphere of learning.
Our cocksureness has sprung from our isola-
tion —from that and from our struggle for
existence in a virgin country, where our per-
sonal initiative and judgment alone have saved
us from extinction. From the same sources we
have derived our narrowness of outlook.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”—-in all sincerity.
“THE SENIOR STORE’'
162D1
jSpP;
162D1—Silver Plated Cake Dish. AI quality. Plain oblong
shape with Black handle. Length 11 ins., width in. At
Anthony Horderns', Price 20/-
162D3
jjp:
ilk.'
<***
162D7
KSmimmmmmi
■ ■ •'■'
162D8
162D4
i
162D10
• :
m
Hi
:
O
. ;
lil#»ll§!
162D3 Silver-plated
Cake or Fruit Dish in
A 1 quality. Round
shape. B£in. diam.
Anthony Horderns'
Price, each ... 25/-
162D7 Silver-plated
Fruit or Cake Dish in
A 1 quality. Unusual
shape with neat
pierced sides and
Black end handles.
Length width
7fin. At Anthony
Horderns' Price, 307-
Similar design on
ball feet. Price, 22/6
162D8—Bread Platter
or Sandwich Tray.
A 1 quality silver-
plated oblong shape
with Black handles.
Inside of dish is pol-
ished. Size of board,
9£ x siin. Anthony
Horderns' Price, 25/-
162D4 Silver-plated
Sandwich or Cake
Dish in A 1 quality.
Length lliin., width
s|in. Complete with
Fork. At Anthony
Horderns' Price, 12/6
162D10—Silver-plated
Sweet Dish, A 1 qual-
ity. Round shape,
6fin. diameter, 3in.
high. At Anthony
Horderns' Price, 17/6
Gft/iac&oe. cuiclDuui&e, Gl FTS
s
&
k
%
162D15
C*ao»i
162D16
m
i
162D15 Salt and Pepper
Shakers. Mustard Pot and
Spoon in A 1 quality silver-
plated plain octagonal shape,
height 4in. Salt and Pepper
Shakers. Price, pair .. 12/6
Mustard Pot and Spoon, 10/6
162D14 Silver Plated
Salt and Pepper Shak-
ers. A 1 quality. Plain
octagon shape. Height
siins. Pair .. 13/6
162D16 Salt and Pepper
Shakers, Mustard Pot and
Spoon in A 1 quality silver-
plated plain design. Salt and
Pepper Shakers. Pair .. 87-
Mustard Pot and Spoon . 7/6
162D23
mi
162D23—Sauce Bottle
Holder in A 1 quality
silver-plated. Height
including handle, 4|
inches; diameter, 21-
inches. Price 7/6
162D2
162D2—Silver Plated Cake or Sandwich
Tray. A 1 quality. Plain with neat em-
bossed sides, Black handles. Length
122-ins., width sins.
Anthony Horderns' Price, each .. 10/6
162D17—Cruet, Salt and Pepper
Shakers, Mustard Pot and Spoon,
silver plated on Black ebonite
stand and handle. Price .... 17/6
162D9—Entree Dish. A 1 quality. Silver
plated, oval shape. Length 12ins. f
width 6iins. Neat plain design. At
Anthony Horderns', Price 32/6
162D19
s
162Dr^'
162D20
51
m
162D19 Silver-plated Sugar
Basin and Ladle, A 1 quality,
bright silver polished inside.
At Anthony Horderns', Pricp,
each 10/
162D20 Sugar Basin and
Ladle, in AI quality silver-
platedl, neat design, gold in-
side finish. At Anthony
Horderns', Price, each .. 9/6
162D22 Sugar Basin and
Ladle, in A 1 quality silver-
plated, gilt finish inside, neat
plain design. At Anthony
Horderns', Price, each, 13/6
162D18
162D28
162D25
162D6
ps'
162D11 English China Cake
Tier Stands, assorted designs
with silver plated centre handle.
At Anthony Horderns', 10/6,12/6
162D18—Toast Rack made to
hold six pieces. quality-
silver-plated on nickel silver.
At Anthony Horderns', Price,
each . 13/6
162D28 Sugar Basin and
Ladle, in A 1 quality -silver-
plated, gilt finish inside.
At Anthony Horderns', Price,
each ............... 10/6
162D25—Butter Dish & Knife,
silver-plated on nickel silver,
hexagon or round shape with
neat embossed edge, glass
inset. Price, each ...... 10/6
162D6 Silver-plated Com-
port in A 1 quality. Round
shape, diameter Bin., height
sin. Price, each ....... 157-
Height 7in. Price .... 17/6.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
Postal Address: Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
HORDERNS
LOW PRICES
'Phone: M 2401. Day and Night


CAREER
BY A. C. HEADLEY.
THE pawnshop was on a corner. In the mornings
the sun, pressing on the window, lanterned “£1
lent for 6d.” against a background of second-
hand clothing. Watches, dull from lack of
attention and polish, hung on a wire stretched across
the. front. A million and one things. Field-glasses,
a violin, a set of golf clubs, tennis racquets, and in the
background the close ranks of clothing—an English
tweed suit, a resplendent suit of tails . . .
The door at the side was a promise of privacy, a
promise carried further by the smooth wood of the
cubicles. Thin women pledged blankets in the summer ;
men pledged a suit, a pair of shoes. Something to
get a few shillings and to-morrow can go hang ; there
are races to-day and the horse that has to fall over
to lose.
The suit of tails is old-fashioned. The lapels are
long and without points. The legs of the trousers are
tapered and too narrow. It is the kind of suit that
A CROBATICS and step dancing; Miss Florrie
** Raynor’s class. The room is over one of the shops
in the main street. The floor is polished, and there
are decorations —long strands of colored streamers. A
piano is being thumped lustily. Children are shuffling
their feet to its rhythm. In the centre of the room,
walking between the lines of dancing children, is the
ponderous bulk of Miss Florrie. She claps her hands.
The music stops. With her skirt lifted to the knee
she demonstrates the step. She claps her hands. The
music starts again, and the children take up the dance.
Mothers seated on the bench along the wall look on
with an appreciative eye, thinking how marvellous it
is how quickly young Elsie or Mabel picked up the
steps. There is a look about the children of smart-
ness, the ugly smartness of knowing too much.
There is the Christmas pantomime, and the class-
room is a land of tremendous excitements. Tickets
one and six and a shilling, and people to watch you
dance and sing. The girl third from the left in the
front row is happy ; her mother, sitting with folded
arms on the bench, is happy. Elsie is to be the prin-
cipal boy. She will sing ; she will dance. There is a
future that can be thought of pleasantly. She is as
good as some of those professionals. All that is
needed is the chance. She’d be a success in no time.
Miss Raynor said she was one of the best pupils she
had ever had. She ought to know what she was
talking about.
OLSIE was twelve when her mother brought her
' —' along to Miss Florrie Raynor’s School of Theatri-
cal Dancing. She had no desire to dance, but because
her mother ordered it she went. That was all. But
by the time she was fourteen she had captured enough
of the smart confidence to agree with her mother.
There was a future, a glamorous future where people
clapped, and entertainers were paid tremendous sums
of money. It made her look ’way past the mean house
in which she lived. Her voice was deep and pleasant
and she danced well.
When she was sixteen she landed a job in the
chorus of a suburban vaudeville show. It was hard
work, harder than being the principal boy in one of
Miss Raynor’s Christmas pantomimes. A new show
each week and hours of rehearsals. In the hot weather
her clothes were wet through. But it was good money,
and a beginning.
She was a long time in the chorus before she met
Barney Grey. Barney did a turn on his own, patter
and dance. One night he took her home and kissed
her before he said good night. It wasn’t the first time
a boy had kissed her, but this was different. Barney
with his hair plastered shinily on his thin head, his
sharply handsome face and his dainty patent-leather
shoes. It was the beginning of something.
“Listen, Else, you don’t want to stay in the chorus
all your life, do you?”
What answer to that?
“I’ve got an idea. How about a double turn with
me. We could practise it up.”
It was something new and thrilling. They came
to the theatre early to rehearse. Each night Barney
took her home and kissed her good night. On Sun-
days they sometimes went for a picnic, and she thought
he looked smarter than any man she had ever seen.
She was proud of him and a little bit in love. The
turn was coming along well.
A girl in the chorus named Dot disliked Barney.
She was always saying things against him. Like the
time when Elsie had brought up the matter of the
tour. It was Barney’s idea ; the two of them doing
a round of the country picture shows. Dot said:
“Don’t let him tell you that a double room is cheaper
than two singles. I’ll bet that ring he takes with him
is nearly worn out.”
But it wasn’t like that. She knew Barney, knew
him better than any of them. There was nothing like
that. This was a job for both of them. But she was
relieved when he ordered two rooms at the first hotel.
The act was all right, and it was good to see the
names outside the theatres “Grey and Corrigan.” They
were a week on the road before Barney said it. He
talked about fares and expenses, and then: “Listen,
Else, I’ve got an idea. We shouldn’ be living in two
rooms. Where’s the sense in it when it costs nearly
twice as much as for a double room. I’ll tell you
what I’ll do. In the morning I’ll buy a wedding-ring,
and then we can pretend to be a married couple. We
can have a room with two beds. It’ll save us a lot of
money, Else, and you know you can trust me. It’s
just a business arrangement, that’s all.”
Business arrangement! And when they came
back from the tour: “We’re going to be married,
Barney and I.”
That girl Dot: “Sure, you’re gonna get married!
But what’s he gonna do with the wife he’s got now?”
It was impossible, unbelievable, but there was
no doubt about its truth when she taxed him with it.
For him it was as good an end as any. He was sorry,
he said.
SHE went back into the chorus. A new show each
week and the grind of rehearsals. That earlier
envisioned success had faded from her mind. She
“Blime, if it ain't Charlie! 'Ow's
tricks , ole sport?"
was content now dancing, showing her eg ,
fixing her face with that automatic smile.
She was twenty-seven, still in the chorus,
the talkies came. It was the end of vaudeville. It
took them a long time to believe it. She saw a
picture called “The Jazz Singer,” and it made ner
think of losing her job. There were long queues at
every session of the picture, and everyone talked about
it. Suburban picture shows were being wired for
sound. It was the novelty of the thing. They kept
telling themselves that it couldn’t last. But the nove ty
did not wear off. The vaudeville show struggled for
a while and gave up the ghost.
She was out of work. It was harder for her
now. She was nearly thirty. The years in the chorus
had done something to her. Her face, from constant
powdering, was rough and coarse. Lines were begin-
ning to creep into it. She could dance; she could
sing. There were a hundred girls who could dance
and sing, but there was none to watch or listen.
That was when she conceived the idea of becom-
ing a male impersonator. It was easy, easier than
the chorus. She had her hair cut short, and bought
a second-hand dress suit. There were plenty of
engagements at five shillings a time, a show before
interval at one theatre, linking up with one after
interval at another. Three pounds a week, and prac-
tically no rehearsals. Her voice, naturally deep,
suited the part. She sang a song, told a couple of
jokes, sang another song, and beckoned the audience
with her into the chorus. Most times the audience
was shy and laughed, not at her, but at itself. A
few voices would commence to sing, and presently
they were all singing.
“Come on. Everybody sing.” The audience
wanted to sing, felt tickled with itself for singing. It
was prepared to’render its wholehearted sanction to
the performance. She was popular, and on the posters
“Miss Elsie Corrigan, male impersonator,” became
an “added attraction.” It suited her. There was no
need to worry about the lines in her face.
There was a job for her in a Christmas pantomime
as the principal boy. Ten pounds a week for five
weeks. But she was beginning to get nervy with
living. She started to drink.
With the pantomime over she went back to the
picture shows. On the strength of her success she
raised her fees. They paid them, but they were begin-
ning to realise that she wasn’t bringing extra custom.
People came to see the pictures. They were pre-
pared to accept anything else offering, but it was
unnecessary.
She began to find it more difficult to get jobs.
She brought her price back to the original five shillings.
It made no difference. Sometimes she came to the
theatre smelling of drink. It did not affect her per-
formance but it did something to the people respon-
sible for her engagement. Jobs became fewer and
fewer. The only thing she wanted money for now was
drink. It made her forget the cheap shabbiness of her
room. Came the week when she earned only five
shillings.
'T'HE pawnshop was on a corner. In the mornings
* the sun, pressing on the window, lanterned “£1
lent for 6d.” against a background of second-hand
clothing. Watches, dull from lack of attention and
polish, hung on a wire stretched across the front.
A million and one things. Field-glasses, a violin, a set
of golf clubs, tennis racquets, and in the background
the close ranks of clothing—an English tweed suit,
a resplendent suit of tails . . .
It was a temporary measure. The flesh-and-blood
shows were coming back again and she would have
need of it. For a long time she paid the sixpence a
month interest, and then suddenly it didn’t matter.
A CROBATICS and tap-dancing. Miss Elsie Corri-
** gan’s class. Miss Elsie Corrigan, male imper-
sonator, late of Grey and Corrigan. The room is over
one of the shops in the main street. The
floor is polished, and there are decora-
tions —long strands of colored streamers.
A piano is being thumped lustily. Chil-
dren are shuffling their feet to its rhythm.
In the centre of the room, walking be-
tween the lines of dancing children, is
the ponderous bulk of Miss Elsie. She
claps her hands. The music stops. With
her skirt lifted to the knee she demon-
strates the step. She claps her hands.
The music starts again and the children
take up the dance. Mothers seated on
the bench along the wall look on with
appreciative eyes, thinking how marvel-
lous it is how quickly young Marina or
Valda picked up the steps. There is a
look about the children of smartness, the ugly smart-
ness of knowing too much.
There is the Christmas pantomime, and the class-
room is a land of tremendous excitements. Tickets
one and six and a shilling, and people to watch you
dance and sing. The girl third from the left in the
front row is happy ; her mother is happy. Valda is to
be the principal boy. She will sing ; she will dance.
There is a future that can be thought of pleasantly.
She is as good as some of those professionals. All
that is needed is the chance. She’d be a success in
no time. Miss Corrigan said she was one of the
best pupils she had ever had. Miss Corrigan ought
to know what she was talking about. . .


PEARLS
BEFORE
SWINE
BY OLAF RUHEN.
EVEN though he never enjoyed any more popu-
larity than the late lamented O’Shaughnessy,
all the village, and all beyond the village who
had ever heard of him, came to celebrate on the
day Eirik married O’Shaughnessy’s widow. Nor was
this surprising, in a way, although there were those
who declared that they would sooner hear the Last
Trump than hear Eirik out once he got started talk-
ing. Bygones were bygones, though, when he married
the widow —and the pub.
It wasn’t so much of a pub at that. It stood in
the swamp, in the first place, although that could
hardly be laid down as a disadvantage. Pretty well
all the village stood in the swamp, unless you count
Galligan’s, which was four miles out on the Five
and Nine track on top of the hill, and Peter the
Finn’s, which stood on the beach. The pub didn’t
attract visitors much. There were plenty who
signed on the book, but quite a lot of them used
to make back for Littlereach after supper, and that
was close on twenty miles off.
People just didn’t understand the place. I was
there one night myself, helping two of the boys to
keep O’Shaughnessy’s mind on poker, when a
tourist came down the stairs with two pieces of five
by two, and wanted to know why they had been put
under the edge of the mattress. O’Shaughnessy tried
to explain about the foundations being in the swamp
except at one side, and how the sticks made it easier
to sleep on the bed without rolling off, but the
tourist didn’t wait to the finish. One of these knowall
city fellows, we took it, but he learnt.
The deal hadn’t come round more than five or
six times when we heard the third bump on the ceil-
ing, and the tourist came limping down the stairs
again asking for his bits of wood, but somebody had
put the ends in the fire when the old man wasn’t
looking. O’Shaughnessy was not the most liberal
with his firewood, having to haul it pretty nearly a
mile from the reserve, with one of the dairy cows at
that.
That was all a while ago, and the house hadn’t
improved much, except for a bit of patching here
and there and the building of a new pig-pen that
Eirik had done out of w r hat he said was kindness of
heart. Now that the wedding was coming off there
were some that got wrong notions of the meaning of
the phrase, but there were others who maintained
that it was still kindness of heart, nevertheless,
O’Shaughnessy’s widow not being the type that most
men would weave schemes around.
She was a silent sort of woman, although you
always had the idea, somehow, that if she did start
to speak you wouldn’t wait around to hear what it
was. She was very handy with an axe, however,
splitting up the wood O’Shaughnessy used to haul
from the reserve for the fire in the kitchen and
the copper which all the fishermen used for .tanning
their gear and sails, when it wasn’t washing day or
wintertime —when they boiled up the mush for the
pigs.
She was a good businesswoman, too. Some of
the boys thought she was too good, after they found
they had to pay for their drinks at O’Shaughnessy’s
wake. More than one reckoned at the time that
they wouldn’t be back, but, as I was saying, the
wedding brought them for miles.
Even Whispering Neddy came in from the Flap-
jack, bringing in the saddle and haunches of a Captain
Cooker that was about a hundred years old.
Greasy Pete reckoned there were Maori spear-marks
in his hide. They might have been haxpoons, be-
cause the whalers had been there since. Whispering
Neddy went red, but didn’t say anything; he can't
speak above a whisper, anyway, and until he has
a skinful he’s usually too dry to whisper. By that
time the boys are making too much noise to hear
him, anyway; not that it matters,
because he hasn’t got much to whis-
per about in any case, living where
he does.
Eirik was a bit easier about
the drinks than the widow had been
at the wake. He was putting down
quite a few himself, and some of
the boys were offering condolences,
thinking it was still last month. It
didn’t make any difference to Eirik,
only that he got a bit moister about
the eye and drier about the throat,
but when they found- it paid, and
the thing became popular, the
widow retired to the kitchen to cut
the cheese for the supper.
Peter the Finn rolled up about
half-way through the celebrations
carrying half a dozen of his own
beer by the necks. He had never
been known to buy “pub drinks,”
and though he had a weakness for
whisky, which he never bought, he
would accept it only in return for
his own hospitality. Home-made
beer and home-made wine he
turned out by the gallon. Eirik
eyed him a moment a bit balefully.
Somehow the two of them had
never been exactly friendly, and
some of the boys were inclined to
agree that Peter could have left his
beer at the edge of the swamp. For
my part I liked the old scoundrel.
Peter parked the bottles on
the bar counter and offered his con-
gratulations, tendering a mitt like
the hoof of a five-toed hippopo-
tamus. Eirik took it, with his bronze
reddening—turning to purple when
Peter bit the neck off one of his bottles, splashed half
of it into Eirik’s empty glass and, spitting out the
corked neck, placed the broken edges of the bottle
in his mouth and emptied it, swaying with a
ponderous rhythm. Peter could do that in a rough
sea, steering with the seat of his pants on the tiller,
hanging on to the stern-sheets and sliding up and
down in a greasy cockpit, while I, in my own boat —
and I was bred on a boat —needed all my energy
to stop my aching jaw from chattering and steer my
course.
“And you will build new pub, eh,” Peter
suggested, “just so much like pig-pen?”
Eirik muttered darkly and threw his untasted
beer in the swill. Pig-pens were a ticklish subject.
“So dey have new house for pigs; dis for us,”
continued Peter, addressing the world at large. “And
dere is”
“I build new pub!” shouted Eirik. Then his
voice dropped. “Next year perhaps I build a new
pub. Maybe sooner. You wait and see.” He
winked expressively.
“The insurance company even won’t touch this
one,” someone else put in.
Eirik stuck out his jaw and waggled his finger
over the counter, knocking over two of Peter’s
bottles with his other elbow. “That’s just where you
wrong,” he said. “Mebbe they drop the money a
leetle. A hundred and fifty pounds I can get now, no
more. Once it was two hundred.”
“Mebbe we shift pigs in here,” mumbled Peter.
Eirik took a very strong hold of himself and
walked out to see if his wife had found the cheese.
A COUPLE of months later I was putting the
launch out on the moorings when I saw the first
flames. It didn’t take me more than a couple of dol-
phin flips to reach the burning pub. Houses on fire
were common in those parts, but mostly they all
went up at once with the bush, and a man was too
busy to enjoy them. This was different, and half the
neighborhood beat me to it. The building was
kahikatea, milled out of the swamp in the early days,
and as dry as tinder. It was getting dark. Peter the
Finn, moving quicker than anyone I ever saw,
waved his arms and disappeared in a side door. I
got his drift, and I swear I wasn’t ten seconds after
him, but he wasn’t there when I got in.
Half the boys went in with me, and we salvaged
quite a bit of the furniture. There was a whole lot
of the usual stuff that wasn’t in place though, and I
wondered a bit to myself. We all got out the back
window when the fire drove our way, having saved
pretty well all the movable stuff.
As we came out Peter came running down from
the outbuildings. I thought he had probably been
stowing stuff in the cowsheds. I saw Eirik, too. He
was shifting firewood —of all things—and re-stack-
ing it away from the house. Then Peter danced up.
“Well see who wins this jackpot and then We'll raid 'em!"
“Dot copper! ” he yelled, and, thinking of our nets,
all of us fishermen made a wild dive for the lean-to
wash-house. Peter came last. In fact, thinking of it
afterwards, I seem to remember he didn’t get there.
We hauled out the copper and one or two bundles
of lines that someone had there hanging from the
rafters. I went over and joined Eirik. He had a grin
on his face from ear to ear. Thinking of the new
pub, I suppose. He’d get his new timber out of it,
and with a working bee on the part of the boys he
could see himself set up as a landed proprietor. He
didn’t say much, just stood there in silence, enjoying
it.
Somebody asked “Don’t suppose you saved any
beer?”
Eirik shook his head solemnly. “The fire, she
started in the bar. Sorry, boys.” He swung round
to face me, and all of a sudden stood transfixed,
staring up the hill. Then he gave a low moan and
set out, running like a broaching ’couta. “My pig-
sty! My sty!”
Sure enough it was on fire. Funny thing, too,
because the wind wasn’t that way. Eirik stopped
dead in his tracks, and a pig came bolting past him,
and another one. The whole four.
Peter came down the hill again. “I let him out,
sailor; dey all right.”
Eirik gave him one look of deadly suspicion
and walked back to us.
NEXT morning a stiff sou’-wester stopped me at
the harbor mouth and I sailed home quietly,
cursing myself for trying to steal a march on Peter.
That Finn always knew the weather. It was useless
trying to fish when his dinghy was high up on the
boulders with the killick thrown in the branches of
the rata- tree by the landing. Back on the moorings I
worked till about eleven o’clock on the boat. A car
pulled up at the burnt pub and a couple of men got
out and poked about among the ruins. I climbed
into my dinghy and sculled ashore. Peter met me
on the landing.
“No goot,” he said. “More better you stayed at
home.”
“I’ll know better next time,” I answered, and
changed the subject. “Inspectors busy already?”
“Ho, yes. But dey won’t find no visky.”
“Not after all that fire, Peter. It started in the
bar, you know.”
He grunted. “Not before fire, neither. You
come in here.” He led me to the door of his hut
and shoved a mug in my hand. He stepped inside
and in a moment returned with a brand-new bottle.
The grin in his eyes went well with the flourish as he
bit off the neck. “You like visky, eh?”
“What made you think of the pig-pen, Peter?”
I asked him.
He nodded his head sagely. “Veil yesterday, ven
he brings the new hay in from the reserve, he stows
it in the bar and he carries it out to the pigs mit
sacks !”


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jfoolt 'Mneofta'ie mellow'ncJSandloaquet
In close proximity to the Port of
London Authority building and the
Royal Mint on Tower Hill is situated the
headquarters, in an official sense, of the
maritime industry of Great Britain and,
indirectly, the Empire Trinity House.
It is in the eternal fitness of things that
an essentially seagoing race, such as the
British, whose dominion has been so
largely “builded on the ocean,” and
whose future is absolutely dependent
upon the same element, should be repre-
sented in this form on a site so closely
bound up with its political and com-
mercial growth. Trinity House is the
“home” of a society, the “Guild,
Fraternity or Brotherhood of the Most
Glorious and Undivided Trinity.” Its
present location is of comparatively re-
cent date (1795), when the structure
illustrated was erected from plans by
William Wyatt. The society was founded
at Deptford in 1515 by Sir Thomas
Spert, commander of the then great ship
Henry Grace de Dieu, and Comptroller
of the Navy to Henry VIII., who incor-
porated it. The grant was made to the
institute to the “honour of the Blessed
Trinity and St. Clement, a guild or
brotherhood concerning the cunning and
craft of mariners, and for the increase
and augmentation of the ships thereof.”
It is interesting parenthetically to recall
that at Deptford Dockyard, where the
society had its birth, ships fitted out in-
cluded those of Captain Cook. Trinity
House, in the words of the old chronicler,
still deals with “the regulation of seamen
and the convenience of ships and
mariners” (lighthouses, navigation, pilot-
age and so forth). The visitor will find
an inspection of Trinity House of interest,
especially as relates to much lodged there,
including a flag taken from the Spaniards
by Drake; pen-and-ink drawings of
naval engagements in the reign of Charles
II.; two very large globes, curiosities to
the student; portraits of eminent com-
manders ; models of old lighthouses,
beacons and other primitive aids to navi-
gation. This corporation is governed by
a master, wardens, assistants and elder
brethren, the last selected from members
of the royal family and distinguished
officers of the Navy and mercantile
marine. “Inferior members” may be
said to be of an unlimited number, for
every “master and mate expert in navi-
gation” may be admitted as such, and
thus provide what may. be regarded as
a continual nursery to fill vacancies
among the elder brethren when removed
by death or otherwise.
TRINITY HOUSE, TOWER HILL.


HANDED OVER.
“The Sixth Division, 2nd A.I.F., is to go abroad, probably early in the New Year, and will enter a theatre of war in the European spring.”—Mr. Menzies.
“The traditions of the old A.I.F. will be safe in their hands.” —Mr. L. A. Robb, R.S.S.I.L.A.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OJFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
SOVIET AND OTHER FRAUDS.
Nobody would have been surprised by the “peaceful
Soviet’s” latest performance if there had been any-
thing like frank reporting of world affairs over
the past five or six years. Granny “Herald” would
not have had to reinstate the awful swearword “Bol-
shevik” in her vocabulary to express her personal con-
vulsions and contortions over the invasion of Finland,
the bombing of towns —called “airports” in tortured
comment —and the rest of the “great Stalin’s” attack
on a microscopic State.
Though its leading part in getting the steadily
broadening war started is beyond question, Soviet
Russia was still being let off lightly in cables and com-
ment on them up to the invasion of Finland. The
agreement with Germany—the launching point of the
war —was the natural corollary of the attempt to get
a world war started over Spain, after the Comin-
tern’s agents had succeeded in starting civil war there.
The rest of the Soviet’s recent performance is strictly
in keeping with the fact that, with scarcely an excep-
tion, there has been no fighting in any corner of the
world for years past in which the Soviet has not had
a hand.
The Soviet’s active part in starting the war in Spain
is now being belatedly admitted in English newspapers
that never mentioned it at the time. It is yet to be ad-
mitted by Australian dailies which helped in building
up the idealised picture of the Soviet now in process
of being exposed as a fraud. This fake was so assidu-
ously hawked that, Poland notwithstanding—it was
Hitler, not the “great” Stalin, who got the pick of the
loot there —some still cling to a pathetic faith in the
Soviet as representing a check to Hitler’s ambitions.
With honest reporting all along, instead of “ideo-
logical” representation of Soviet performance,
there would not be the slightest doubt that the only
Germany the Soviet would be at all likely to inter-
fere with would be a beaten and ruined Germany,
and even then not by direct attack. Minute Finland,
broken Poland, yes ; but no powerful nation. It would
be by the usual Comintern procedure of helping to
provoke internal disaffection, revolution and civil war.
That is the present Comintern hope—to see both Ger-
many and the Allies so ruined and exhausted by their
war that conditions will be favorable to the spread of
the Communist cult through Germany and France,
and even over the Channel.
Past misinformation concerning the Soviet is only
one example of public opinion being widely misled by
views served up as news. The decline and fall of the
League of Nations similarly surprised all those who
had taken for gospel the inflated opinions about it
served up in lieu of frank reporting. Many other
instances should leap to mind. What many decry as
a sorry reversal on Uncle Sam’s part in the present
war would have surprised nobody if dailies which
have boasted of giving Australia “leadership” had
been able merely to give authentic United States news,
or had even been able to interpret news correctly.
The list is endless. Hitherto it has not had any
serious outcome, though it has always been dangerous;
with a war on —to be fought out to a very bitter end,
if Mr. Chamberlain’s latest pronouncement of aims is
the last word—continued trust in blatant oracles might
turn out disastrous. They were wildly wrong in ideal-
ising the “mighty Soviet,” in counting on it and the
U.S.A. as certain allies, in assessing the strength of
Poland, in regard to immediate lightning war on Eng-
land. In every forecast regarding this war so far put
to the test they have been proved wrong. There is
no ground for believing they might ever be right, but
they are as loud and oracular as ever, views and
picturesque speculations are still being served up in the
guise of “news,” and wishful faith evidently dies hard.
A number of especially dangerous notions are
thus being assiduously cultivated. One is the “defen-
sive war” tactics sponsored by Liddell Hart and school.
The notion is that this war can be won by sitting down
on the Maginot Line and letting blockade do the rest.
So-called “defensive” warfare rests on the notion that
the offensive has no hope against modern defences.
Yet not only past wars but all recent wars have
gone against the side on the defensive. In China,
Abyssinia, Spain and Poland the fighting favored
the side taking the offensive, in the last three coun-
tries conclusively and comparatively quickly.
Lavishly garnished helpings of the effects of
propaganda on the German people and the effects of
blockade on the German war machine are also being
served up. Too much altogether has been made of
the effects of both these subsidiary instruments in the
last war. They played their part, but at the most it
was no more than a complementary part. The notion
persistently dished out —on Sundays with American
comics and on week-days with form guides—that the
blockade will favor Britain with an ending to the war
“similar to that of 1918, when the German Army was
unbeaten, but the nation could no longer support it,”
calls for ladles of salt. With the implication that it
will do so quickly, it is grotesque.
Propaganda was effective in the last war only
when the German Army was well defeated in the
field. Germany collapsed internally only when —after
four years of desperate fighting, with the loss of hun-
dreds of thousands of lives and the permanent blind-
ing and maiming of many more on both sides —the
German Army was beaten and on the retreat, and
Ludendorff had to admit regarding it that “no one
knows what tomorrow may bring.” Then and then
only did propaganda help the collapse inside Germany.
Naturally, the propaganda fable suited that country,
helping to bolster and revive national pride in an
“army that has never been defeated.” Hitler has
bragged as much, and the oracles—part of whose
achievement has been to belittle the deciding part
played by the Allied fighting forces —are still hawking
the fable.
Hence the pathetic faith of many in the “confetti
war.” This is an age of synthetic products, but a war
won by synthetic fighting is a sadly unlikely addition
to the list.
The effects of blockade have been almost as
greatly overrated. Here the truth is the same as that
regarding propaganda. The effects of the blockade
operated when the German Army had suffered defeat.
It helped—much more materially than propaganda
ever did—but it did not decide the issue. The notion
now being propagated is that it did decide the issue,
hence that it alone can now quickly decide the issue
again. There could not be a more misleading fallacy.
In time it will play its part; but it took a long time
before, and no trustworthy evidence has so far been
produced that Germany is not to-day better placed
for supplies than in the last war. The weight of
evidence is that Germany is a lot better placed.
The same founts of wisdom which assured Aus-
tralia that the U.S.A. was hogging for “action,” that
the U.S.S.R. was anti-fascist, anti-aggression and first
and foremost for peace, are the ones now hawking
blockade, not as a contributing factor —which would
be correct —but as a decisive factor on its own, which
is nonsense. The “Times” has summed the position
up in a sentence:
The need for real economic warfare is more urgent
now than in the last war, because Germany now has
access to more neutral countries —for instance, to all
Europe east of France, and a great part of Asia —while
Britain’s reserve of foreign credits is considerably lower.
That is the truth on a subject that has been wildly
misstated.
There is real danger in the misleading twaddle.
It cultivates the notion that this war can be won with-
out very strenuous military effort. Along with the
more subtly propagated notion that an early peace
will be arranged, it will be disastrous if it leads —as
well it might—to a slowing down of the national
effort; to half-hearted measures. Apparently some
sort of peace dealings have been going on, but Mr.
Chamberlain’s latest definition of what the war is for
is not encouraging to too-wishful thinking. He has
boiled it down to one aim:
Our war aim is to defeat the enemy, not merely
militarily, but also to defeat the aggressive bullying
mentality.
That is not an impossible order if an all-in, hard-
hitting national effort backs it up ; but there will be
surprises and shocks outdoing all thus far experienced
if what that simple sentence involves is not fully
realised. This much is certain. It is not going to be
achieved by means of any of the popular, glibly-
spouted substitutes for fighting.
The New A.I.F.
Australia’s war effort has suddenly taken definite
shape. The new A.I.F. is billed to go abroad, “prob-
ably early in the New Year, to enter a theatre of war
in the European spring.” Agreed—on the very
important condition that the line-up of neutrals, over
which not only Mr. Curtin but Mr. Menzies and Mr.
Chamberlain have expressed concern, has by then
been so settled as to leave no shadow of doubt.
Announced also that Australia proposes to train
26,000 flying men over a term of years. Some will be
trained in Canada, but, sensibly, the great bulk of
them will do their training in Australia.
Tradition —one of the most valuable adjuncts to
a fighting force —has wisely been revived. The new
A.I.F. carries on where the first Diggers left off. It
is as the Sixth Division, Second A.1.F., that the new
Diggers will go abroad. Fancy costumes that have
hidden the fact that the old A.I.F. uniform was itself
a battle honor have been discarded. There are differ-
ences and improvements in uniform, but when the
new A.I.F. is fully clothed and equipped, it will be
near enough to a repeat parade of the original Dig-
gers. The quality of what is in the uniform will be
right up to standard.
Dr. Earle Page, after inspecting troops in camp
a day or two before the new programme was an-
nounced, opened fire on the Defence Department over
a couple of typical grounds for criticism. . .
Himself of the old A.1.F., Dr. Page voiced feel-
ings of Diggers old and new in slating the system
imposed on the new A.I.F. of officers’ and sergeants
messes with beer, whisky, etc., on tap, but dry can-
teens for other ranks. The system leads to grog
smuggling and suchlike army “crimes”; “the trade
in ‘sly grog,’ it is generally realised, is taking place
at most camps.” But that is not the worst
of it. It leads also to disaffection and bad
discipline; provokes feeling more serious than
traditional army grouching. Australian troops will
put up with anything except injustice ; and there is
no other name for this. Maoriland is a jump ahead
in more sensible treatment of its troops, as in other
salients of its war effort.
Dr. Page would know more than the next man,
and at least as much as the next doctor, about the
other matter that raised his wrath. He criticised the
camp sanitary arrangements. Mr. Street disagreed,
more promptly than effectively. As a medical man,
he said, Dr. Page was “no doubt well qualified to
speak on sanitary arrangements, but we have medical
officers in the camps equally well qualified.” This
could be true without being satisfactory. It might
even be that both Dr. Page and Mr. Street’s medical
officers are not completely up to the minute regarding
modern sanitation for large bodies of men in camps.
There have been exceptional opportunities to
secure such essential military knowledge—none of them
taken. One was Italy’s war with Abyssinia, when, under
approximately similar conditions, the sanitary care
on the Italian side achieved notable results in keeping
the troops free from disease. A detailed medical
report of it is now available in Australia, if Mr. Street
is not finally convinced that his m.o’s. have nothing
to learn. From the military point of view—the
preservation of man-power—it was an outstanding
achievement of that campaign. The opportunity prob-
ably was not even discussed. A string of
members of Parliament —among them Mr. Menzies
—had trips abroad at that time, but the idea
that something of great value to Australia was
to be secured by having one or two medical and other
army officers getting practical experience on the spot
occurred to nobody. As a result, the probability is
that Dr. Page is a good deal nearer right than Mr.
Street.
Further activity on the home front was a furious
barrage aimed at the same department by Mr. Eric
Wren, a captain of the Ist Brigade of the old A.I.F.
As some responsible Ministers with more hardihood
than wisdom had done, he compared present perform-
ance with that of 1914. Unlike them, he failed to see
that the present had anything to crow about over the
past. Against the present war effort he debited
Hundreds of men without even one pair of socks.
Hundreds with only one singlet. Handkerchiefs a
luxury. Men, without proper uniform, having to wear
heavy overcoats —in soaring temperatures—when they
visit the city, to hide the motley collection of clothes
they wear.
He was speaking of one unit in particular, but
declared that “conditions were similar in other units.”
On the credit side, past tense: “It is three months
since the war started. But in 1914 we were on our
way abroad, trained and fully equipped by October.”
On the credit side, present tense: “The men of the
2nd A.I.F. are great material. Ninety-nine per cent,
of them are Australian-born.”
There is no doubt that they are great material.
Seen in full uniform, those that have had the train-
ing to lick them into shape are right up to the best
A.I.F. pattern. No doubt there will now be urgent
effort to rectify the state of things criticised.
Neither the Defence Department nor the Ministers in
charge of Australia’s war effort deserve all the blame.
Casting back to 1914 for comparisons is fashionable,
but none of those resorting to it has so far noted the
one great difference between then and the present.
When the 1914 war broke out Australia had com-
pulsory national training. That provided the bulk of
the officers for the Ist A.I.F. and a great many trained
other ranks as well. That is an important difference,
but there was one more important still. Compulsory
national training being in force meant that the neces-
sary organisation for getting an army together rapidly
and efficiently was there already established. Without
it not even the great driving ability of Bridges wouid
have availed to get the Ist A.I.F. together, shaped as a
fair fighting force, inside a month.
If that organisation had been allowed to con-
tinue Dr. Page’s wrath might not have been provoked,
and Mr. Wren’s almost certainly not. It had been
destroyed in the meantime by a temporary set of poli-
ticians, the best that can be said for whom is that
they were bemused by a then fashionable notion that
the safety of Australia could be left to a rabble of
assorted gasbags at Geneva. That is more than can
be said for the inheritors of their mantle, who, with
their country at war, and themselves opposed to send-
ing the 2nd A.I.F. anywhere outside Australia because
of their professed fear of invasion, still oppose com-
pulsory national service as a measure of home defence.
The Menzies Government has at least shown itself
capable of taking something more like a realistic view.
Most of the criticism levelled at its war effort properly
hits back to 1929 and the politicians who then shame-
fully failed their country. With a patchwork voluntary
system operating since then, and a measure of com-
pulsory training now necessarily imposed on it over-
night, naturally the machine creaks in some of its
joints.
It should not be allowed to happen again. There
might be no slow-motion beginning next time. The
organisation in being which only compulsory national
service can ensure should always be there, ready. To
make sure, it should now be established beyond the
reach of all such freakish phenomena as passing sets
of temporary politicians given to legislating with one
ear to the ground and both eyes on their own political
gunyahs. It should be untouchable except by
referendum.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
A.B.C. Publication.
Last year A.B.C. revenue increased by £78,052 to
£720,133, listeners’ fees providing £658,736, after the
P M.G. had taken a rake-off of £530,000. A.B.C. s
year’s profit, £ 106,000-odd; accumulated profits,
£250,000.
The people thus bled by a palpably excessive tax
have been at war for three months, with taxes for
war effort steeply risen already, and certain to become
much heavier for financing the war programme-
liabilities to date, £62,500,000. This could not restrain
A.B.C. from publishing its unwanted “weekly.” In
its 1939 annual report to Parliament it excuses the
gamble:
It was felt desirable to establish closer contact with
listeners, not only to secure more detailed publicity
for, and to secure a better understanding of, the
Commission’s programmes and objectives, but also
to enable listeners to make their desires more readily
known to the Commission.
With 26 broadcasting stations, broadcasting for
up to 15 hours a day, every day in the year to a total
of 1,131,800 holders of listeners’ licenses, A.B.C. has to
fall back on the printed word to establish contact with
listeners, and to advertise its wares to them. Pretence
that the “weekly” is justified to “enable listeners to
make their desires more readily known to the Com-
mission” than could be done per the means of com-
munication that will still have to be used would be
rated childish in a children’s session.
On the opening policy page of its first number,
A.8.C., through its editorial department, encroached
on the preserves of astrological prophets: —•
There need be no fear that the “A.B.C. Weekly”
will be a sink for listeners’ money, despite some wishful
forecasts.
A.B.C.’s “weekly” bore the date line December 2
(Saturday), but was issued for sale on the Wednesday.
It was supplied to agents in avalanche proportions on
a sale-or-return basis — i.e., agents to return and be
credited for unsold copies. Since the outbreak of
war, with the consequent necessity to conserve paper,
with no huge funds provided by excessive taxation to
draw on, private enterprise publishers have had to cut
returns out altogether. They can afford neither to
waste the paper nor risk the gamble of doubtful sales.
The following table, provided by inquiries at a few
Sydney city newsagencies at the week-end, is a case
history of A.B.C.’s avalanche methods, with the sink
yawning wide open for the splash of excessive-
taxmoney:
Weekly Sale of Copies
Best-selling Weekly Copies of A.B.C. of A.B.C.
Publication Handled “Weekly” Supplied “Weekly” Sold
Agent. by Agent. to Agent. by Agent.
A .. 360 250 50
B .. 170 200 *
C .. 180 200 35
D .. 150 250 30
E .. 420 250 50
F .. 200 200 20
G .. 250 72
* Sales by this agent unknown, but 75 copies of the
excess supply had been picked up and taken away.
Purchasers of the first issue found contents as
remarkable as agents found that avalanche. The main
feature article was a boost for Stalin.
He once had to walk between two rows of Czarist
soldiers who wielded whips. It is said that he read a
book as he strolled under their stinging lashes.
A page of that sort of twaddle to boost the man who,
by way of justifying this A.B.C. adoration, in the same
week invaded Finland. A.B.C. should take another
pick of heroes.
It is not enough for this national Australian insti-
tution to appear as apologist for the head of Com-
munism ; in an extremely delicate war situation it
permits provocative insult to a neighboring nation
which has never been anything but friendly to Aus-
tralia —description of that nation as “the cruellest of
invaders.”
A.B.C. cannot evade responsibility by signatures
on articles of this sort in its “weekly.” It operates, and
its “weekly” is published, under provisions of the
Australian Broadcasting Commission Act, 1932. It
stands by Commonwealth appointment, and has to
return an annual account of its stewardship to the
Commonwealth Parliament. It is under the (remote)
control of the Australian people through their national
Parliament. It is a public institution. Therefore the
country on which it publishes provocative insults can
regard these as official —made on behalf of the Aus-
tralian people with Parliamentary approval.
There are luxuries Australia just now cannot
afford. One of them is thus giving to insults directed
at a neighboring neutral country the authority of a
public-owned national publication. Another is the
foolish publication itself.
Slaughter in Finland.
Early in the day on November 30 the Red Army
crossed the frontier into Finland, launching the Soviet-
provoked war with every circumstance of brutality.
Red ’planes rained down incendiary and high-
explosive bombs on industrial quarters of open, de-
fenceless towns, killing civilians and women and
children ; burying mutilated bodies in the debris of
shattered buildings. Cables—in dailies hitherto Soviet
admirers —told that “at Esno bombs struck a hospital
and a school, and many were killed.”
An Australian on the spot witnessed “six Soviet
’planes bombing the industrial suburb of Soanas.”
Bombs “went right through buildings and exploded in
cellars.” Helsinki’s inhabitants “had not realised
before the horrors of air-bombing.” The city was
“thrice visited by Red bombers during the day” and
“many civilians were slaughtered.”
Against odds that are best grasped by a glance
at a map, the Finns were fighting a desperate defence.
People were going out into the near-by frozen hill
country to avoid night raids. With the ruthless bomb-
ing aimed at terrorising the population, and the burn-
ing of towns, the country occupied presented an
aspect of devastation.
Stalin—glorified for years past as the humane
leader of a peaceful people—was conducting the first
stages of his war. Parlor Pinks should be feeling proud.
Australia in the Air.
Details of the new air-training scheme show an
improvement on the original plan, which had Canada
as centre of training. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment stuck to its guns in favor of home training.
The plan now is to provide 26,000 trained Aus-
tralian flying men over three years, divided into 10,400
pilots and 15,600 observers, navigators and gunners.
The basic figure gives little idea of the extensive
organisation necessary to carry the idea out.
It needs 20 men on the ground to keep one man
in the air under war conditions, and it will need at
least 10 under a training scheme, apart from sub-
sidiary civil and manufacturing services. Personnel
of over 100,000, military and civil, is likely to be in-
volved when the plan is in full working order. Out of
the 26,000 who are to be qualified, 6000 will do their
training in Canada.
The Wirraway factory in Melbourne is reaching
the point at which six machines a day can be pro-
duced. Factories are in course of preparation which
in a year or so should be able to deliver a good many
squadrons of Beauforts and Lockheeds. The Com-
monwealth Government has ordered 100 Lockheed
Hudsons already, and intends to order another 100.
Tiger Moths are being made in numbers for pre-
liminary training.
But all the manufacture in sight is a fleabite beside
the necessities of the new undertaking, which a few
years ago would have been looked on as Utopian if
conceived by Britain, the United States or Germany.
The bill will be heavy, but the scheme, carried through,
would leave Australia at the end of the war a great
air power with up-to-date aerodromes, adequate for
the needs of decades to come ; with a huge, highly-
trained personnel, self-contained as regards manufac-
ture of machines for every kind of purpose—aerially
safe.
Organisation will need to be better and more
expeditious than aerial organisation has been. The
R.A.A.F. is at the moment pleading for a mere 250
technicians to bring ground staff up to strength, and
is having difficulty in getting them. The new scheme
should provide a stimulus.
The Sea War.
In the last war British and German navies were about
on a parity all round. In this war Britain has had the
advantage of a continuous naval policy, a continuity
of employment and training of naval officers and men.
At the beginning of this year Germany had two
heavy capital ships building, against Britain’s 15 built
and seven building ; six cruisers built and seven build-
ing, against Britain’s 62 and 21 building ; two aircraft
carriers building, against Britain’s 14 and five building ;
about 70 submarines against about the same number
of British. This takes no account of destroyers, in
which Britain has at least a five-to-one superiority, or
of the French Navy, which is stronger than the
German.
Yet things are happening in this war which never
happened in the last. Virtually all the most dangerous
German raiders had been cleaned up by the first week
in December, 1914. The Emden was sunk in the
Indian Ocean on Nov. 10. The Scharnhorst,
Gneisenau, Leipzig and Nurnberg went to the bottom
off the Falklands on Dec. B—this,8 —this, though wireless and
communications were very imperfect. And though
some British cruisers—Hogue, Cressy, Aboukir, Hawke
and others —and the 24,000-ton Audacious, were
destroyed at sea, no German ship of any size suc-
ceeded in running the gauntlet of the R.N. in the
North Sea for more than a few hours before Beatty
and his Lions and Tigers caught them or chased them
off. The Goeben and her escort cruiser were com-
pelled in short order to perpetual internment in Turk-
ish waters.
In the first months of the present war the battle-
ship Royal Oak was torpedoed in Britain’s principal
naval harbor at Scapa Flow. The Admiralty attributed
the loss to overconfidence. Late in September, the
two pocket battleships Deutschland and Admiral von
Scheer, carrying 11 in. gun batteries, with at least one
other cruiser, the Emden, as heavily armed as the
Sydney class, succeeded in running the blockade and
have been at large ever since.
On Nov. 27 it was reported by the American press
that the Deutschland had been sunk by a 15in. gun
battle-cruiser, but the Admiralty did not confirm the
news. Next day it was announced that nearly a week
before, on Nov. 23, the German vessel had appeared
between Britain and Iceland —only 500-odd miles from
Scapa Flow —and battered to pieces the converted
P. and O. liner Rawalpindi, which, armed with 6in.
guns, was helping to keep the Arctic patrol. The
Deutschland afterwards escaped from a British light
cruiser in the mist.
Up to the end of last month German submarines
and mines had sunk just on 550,000 tons of merchant
shipping, including 320,000 tons of British ships, beside
destroying 70,000 tons of naval tonnage and damaging
more than one other warship, including one of the
latest heavy cruisers, H.M.S. Belfast.
Against this, German mercantile marine has been
pushed off the seas, and it is estimated that 30 U-boats
have been sunk, though there is no official figure.
Also, the losses are a tithe of British and neutral
shipping available —Britain’s alone totals about
10,553,000 tons net.
Outburst by a Nark.
On its way to work on Friday morning Sydney found
itself bailed up at strategic points by Lud Mayor
Nock and his cohorts (Amazonian) and requested to
disgorge for a patriotic fund. The citizenry rapidly
developed a rash of buttons with flags on them. All
but one —a nark, who held forth at the corner of King
and Hunter streets in the manner of narks:
“Buttons, eh! I pay Federal income tax and State
income tax, and then the State taxes my wages on top of
that. I pay a thumping motor tax which is likely to go up
any day. I have to pay a tax every time I buy anything
or go to the pictures; they’ve cut down my beer, tea costs
me threepence a pound extra. There is a lottery supposed
to help the hospitals, but I have to pay a couple of
bob a week into a hospital fund.
“It costs me Is. 6d. a day for fares for myself and the
two kids who go to school. I’m up for a lot of money
to help finance the wheatgrowers and meet Federal and State
debts that have accumulated in the past. I still owe a good
bit on the last war. It costs me heavily for insurance on
my family and self, my furniture and my car, my union
fees, fuel and lighting.
“I have to pay for politicians to make tours abroad.
I’m paying for a lot of public works that will never
be any good. I’m paying for the defence of the country
and the money’s being thrown about like water on elaborate
buildings and unnecessary departments, boards, commissions
and God knows what else.
“If there was one Government instead of seven, and that
Government did its own work instead of creating a lot of
expensive boards to do it, and all unnecessary expenditure
was cut out, the country could equip its soldiers splendidly
and carry on efficiently and still reduce taxation. And you
stick me up and try to sell me a button All right, I’ll
take one. Make it two.”
At nightfall the victorious cohorts retired to gloat
over their well-earned gains for the good cause —
£12,000. The haul was a typical expression of general
Australian sentiment that day, with the war effort just
given a fresh impetus by the new A.I.F. announcement,
and with the “mighty Soviet” wading into mitey
Finland.
No Show in December.
The League was to have forgathered again at Geneva
this month, but the meetings have been called off. A
pity, for the world is desperately in need of something
to laugh at, and there would have been rich comedy
in the spectacle of Comrade Maisky, of Moscow,
creeping into the chair and arguing with the repre-
sentatives of Poland and Finland about the precise
significance of five articles of the Covenant.
X. The Members of the League undertake to
respect and preserve as against external aggression the
territorial integrity and existing political independence
of all Members of the League.
XII. The Members of the League agree that if there
should arise between them any dispute likely to lead to
rupture, they will submit the matter either to arbitration
or to inquiry by the Council, and they agree in no
case to resort to war until three months after the
award by the arbitrators or the report by the Council.
XIII. The Members of the League agree that when-
ever any dispute shall arise between them which they
recognise to be suitable for submission to arbitration,
and which cannot be satisfactorily settled by diplomacy,
they will submit the whole subject matter to arbitration.
XV. If there should arise between Members of the
League any dispute likely to lead to a rupture which
is not submitted to arbitration, the Members of the
League agree that they will submit the matter to the
Council.
XVI. Should any Member of the League resort to
war in disregard of its covenants under Articles XII,
XIII or XV, it shall, ipso facto, be deemed to have
committed an act of war against all other Members of the
League, which hereby undertake immediately to subject it
to the severance of all trade or financial arrangements,
the prohibition of all intercourse between their nationals
and the nationals of the covenant-breaking Member of the
League, and the prevention of all financial, commercial
or personal intercourse between the nationals of the
covenant-breaking Member of the League and the
nationals of any other State, whether a Member of the
League or not. It shall be the duty of the Council
in such case to recommend to the several Governments
concerned what effective military or naval aid they
* shall severally contribute.
Poland and Finland are original members of the
League. Soviet Russia joined in 1934.
Ivan Enlists.
And “El V.” looks on by courtesy of “Moscow
News”:
None of your roughnecked Diggers in the Red Army,
blokes who sit waiting for their turn heading ’em against the
fence. “Annual Army Draft is nation-wide celebration.” The
lads turn up with their mothers and fathers. They bring their
accordions and guitars and sit in the waiting-room playing
“chess, checkers and dominoes.”
Then they wander before the draft commission, a set
of beaming, kindly men. Enter—l am quoting the details
exactly from my favorite Moscow journal—enter Tovarisch
Konstantin Pilipenko, a Stakhanovite machine operator.
“Ah,” says the chairman of the commission, “an old
friend. And how is your rupture?”
“Not a trace left,” says Hero Pilipenko proudly. “It is
healed up perfectly.” The commission waits breathless while
the doctors go over Konstantin. “He is perfectly well,” cry
the doctors. “We recommend him for the tanks.” So into
the tanks goes Konstantin. And into the Border Guards goes
Eugen Ivanov, “a member of the Young Communist League,
the possessor of four badges for defence training, a young
actor with secondary-school education.” Also, M. Staborin-
sky, M. Kruschinsky and M- Morozov, all hearty and noble
Comrades, with heads shaven as clean as the back of a
turtle.
Do they make for the nearest pub and have one? Not
in the land of culture. They “hurry to share their joy with
their friends and families,” particularly with their old
foreman. And then they are photographed with the 0.f., each
with a large bunch of chrysanthemums in his fist!
And so to Poland. True, according to the six com-
muniques which the commanders of the Red Army issued
during the first five days, their advance was into a country
“abandoned to its fate and left defenceless.” But in these
desperate circumstances it is good to hear, on the authority
of the Russian General Staff and “Izvestia,” that “the
warriors of the Soviet State carried out their emancipatory
task with dignity, honor and heroism.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
brass-hats bursting with Olympian fury,
to go to hell, almost daily, would hardly
pay much attention to what any un-
known three-pip son of a whatnot was
trying to make them do, or not do.”
* * * *
“Craiser”: Some of the ladies em-
ployed to conduct broadcasting interviews
seem to be singularly ill-equipped with
general knowledge. Lately a cinema was
on the air publicising a projected revival
of “Damaged Goods,” the film version of
Brieux’s play about syphilis which Shaw
said placed the author in the same cate-
gory as the great Greek tragic writers.
After a few vague preliminary remarks
interspersed with superlatives had been
made by the advertiser, the interviewer’s
dulcet tones were heard exclaiming:
“And what is the name of this wonderful
film, Mr. Snoops?” “ ‘Damaged Goods,’ ”
madam.” “I hope you don’t think I’m
damaged goods, Mr. Snoops,” cooed the
voice archly. “Oh, no, no, madam!”
stuttered the embarrassed entrepreneur.
“Nothing like that, I assure you! ”
* * * *
“S. Piel”: A wearer of my old school
tie, Ned the Goat, was given six months
by a Sydney Beak for playing a sweat-
wheel outside a racecourse. The demon
“X.S.”: The gales which have lately
swept over Melbourne laid low the mili-
tary camp at Mount Martha, but Wirths’
big tent in Batman-avenue never turned
a hair, metaphorically speaking. Stimu-
lated by an unfortunate experience in
Perth, when sundry members of the audi-
ence nearly got drowned in billows of
collapsed canvas, the management has
evolved an almost cyclone-proof system.
The king-poles are not buried in the
ground, but rest on steel plates. Another
lOft.-square plate is buried directly
underneath, and from this go steel
hawsers, to which the top stays are con-
nected. Hence the tent is tied down by
its own weight, plus the weight of the
earth bearing down on the submerged
plate. All assurances to the contrary,
however, for a test to the nerves I can
recommend an evening under the same
roof with Wirths’ stock-in-trade roaring
and bellowing and a 60-mile gale kicking
up a row like the beginning, the end and
the middle of Armageddon.
* * * *
From London: Wyndham Lewis offers
the Diggers an unsolicited testimonial
when reviving the memory of the
Koepenick incident of some years back,
where a little cobbler, putting on a mili-
tary uniform, was accepted by regular
German troops as a commander. But
this, Lewis says, might happen “to any
armed force whatsoever, always barring
the Australians, who, accustomed as they
are, or were, to telling high-up British
“ That’s the plan of the Town Hall , Mr. Mayor. Its half scale."
“Well, it's no flamin' good t' me. Where s the other arf."
who pinched him gave Ned a good refer-
ence saying that there was no suggestion
that the wheel could be manipulated. The
master under whom I served my articles
always impressed on me the value of the
square game. “There will always come
a time,” he would say, “when the opera-
tor of a crook wheel will be found out.
Then, unless his legs are fast or his
cohorts strong, the duped will work their
will on him in a manner most painful.”
When I graduated he presented me with
a wheel made so that a glass marble in
the hub revolved on another fixed to
carry it. Any disgruntled loser was free
to lift wheel from base in vain search
for hidden springs or brakes. Case-
hardened though I was, I wept when an
officious john at Jeparit (Vic.) broke the
masterpiece in two halves across a handy
post. I knew I would never get another
so delicately balanced that by varying
the pressure of my elbow on the table I
could stop it where I wished. That cow
of a john drove me to hard work.
* * * *
“Wooden Betty”: Succession to titles
tangles (B. 25/10/’39 and 15/11/’39)
must have established their record in
England’s most spectacular divorce case
of the century and its sequel in the House
of Lords. The heir to a proud and
ancient title was granted a divorce from
his young wife on the ground that her
son could not possibly be his. A few
years later an attempt by the family to
clarify the succession question was dis-
allowed by the House of Lords on the
ground that it was “against the public
interest” that the evidence that backed
up the petition in divorce should be pub-
lished. The father had to accept as his
legitimate heir the boy whose very exist-
ence had been enough to establish the
wife’s infidelity. To add insult to injury,
the evidence which the Lords considered
must not be published had already jacked
up the sales of the Sunday papers for a
couple of months or more.
* * * *
“Paton”: “Harold Hardupp” (B.
22/11/ ’39) gives point to his par. about
drinkers who don’t know the name of
their favorite pub. when he says the
legend “The Bridge Hotel” is inscribed
on the masonry of Young and Jackson’s,
in Melbourne. If he takes a second
peep he’ll find it is “Prince’s Bridge
Hotel.”
* * * *
“Buck P.”: A casual cove dropped into
a Melbourne (Vic.) recruiting depot last
week and invited a clerk to keep an eye
on his horse and lorry and its load of
poultry. After filling in the form, the
recruit drove away. Later he showed up
again, handed the officer in charge a
bundle of notes, said he’d sold the poul-
try well, asked the o.i.c. to hold the cash
for him and again drifted away. Next
morning he blew in with more money,
which he handed over, having sold his
horse and lorry. Time passed. Then
he floated back again, this time with a
donah under his wing, collected his ''ash
and went off to announce his engage-
ment. Who said the spirit of the old
A.I.F. was dead?
* * * *
“J.H.M.A.”: The writer has a peculiar
interest in the lamented demolition of
Macquarie’s old Commissariat Stores
(1812) in Lower George-street, Syd-
ney. They were added by Mac-
quarie to the recently destroyed
storehouse on the west side of Sydney
Cove built in 1809 by Lieut.-Col.
Foveaux. and it was there that Mr.
Arthur Moorfield Pilkington was sup-
posed to earn his pay as a Deputy-
Assistant-Commissary-General when not
engaged in private diversions with Ensign
Calder, of H.M. 46th Regiment, and
Lieutenant Gregory Wicks, R.N. It is
something of a disgrace to Sydney that
this fine old building is being destroyed,
since it is the last memorial to a line of
Commissary-Generals, beginning with
Andrew Miller in Governor Phillip’s
time, who were by far the most important
and useful of the early civil officials of
N.S.W. Sometimes it was only owing
to their efforts that absolute famine was
averted in the young settlement. Mr.
Pilkington, of course, was an imagi-
nary “silvertail,” but there were other
subordinate officers of the department-
such as Mr. James Hardy Vaux, the
thrice-transported London thief who
wrote a delightful volume of memoirs —
who were real enough. It is sad to see
their former haunts going the way of all
old things in soulless Sydney.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The complacent belief of
motorists that anyone in a car was safe
from a thunderstorm because the rubber
tyres provided insulation has had a rude
jolt. Goondiwindi (Q.) has reported
that a motor-truck carrying cricketers
home from a match was stnrck by light-
ning, two of the party being killed in-
stantly and four severely shocked.
* * * *
“Malvern”: A scheme adopted by the
shopkeepers of Glenferrie-road Malvern
(one of Melbourne’s busy suburban shop-
ping centres), last Yuletide is to e re-
peated this year. In the window of
every shop connected with the scheme
is placed some article which is normally
“foreign” to that particular kind of shop.
For instance, a grocer might display a
book, a bookseller a bottle of sauce, a
jeweller an item n f mercery. Prizes
are given to the persons who can
out and send in a list containing the
largest number of these oddities.
* * * *
“O. Squared”: According to “S.M.H.
N.S.W. teachers condemn as too difficult
algebraic problems set intermediate certi-
ficate candidates. Two questions were
claimed to be severe tests for experienced
scholars. We sprang one of them on the
Junior Juggler:
A ball is thrown vertically upwards with
such velocity that its height (h feet) after
t seconds is given by the forrnla,
h =49— (7 4t) squared, so that the greatest
height attained is 49ft. Find the time
taken to reach this height, also the time
taken by the ball to reach a height of 481 t.,
and explain the reason for two answers.
“Simplest form of algebra,” declared the
young genius loftily, “could be done
mentally in five seconds.” And he did it.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The gamble of the Law.
A builder was fined £2O in a country
court of S.A. for holding galvanised-iron
“reasonably suspected of being unlaw-
fully obtained.” He appealed to the
Supreme Court, and it met him so far
as to refer the complaint to a city S.M.
to be tried again. But there the con-
viction was reaffirmed, and the penalty
was pushed up to £3O.
* * * *
“Jachris”: My desk calendar most
mornings excites me to diligence with
exhortations after the manner of “The
past is Death’s ; the future is thine own.”
Till on Melbourne Cup day, when I
discovered it chuckling slyly: “Book-
makers and vegetarians have this in
common —they both live on green stuff,”
I had not suspected it of any real in-
terest in current happenings save in the
performance of its duty of numbering
the day. But recently it has been sitting
up and taking notice. Of Thurs., Nov.
30, it says:
St. Andrew’s Day. Birthday
of Duchess of Kent (1906).
With what a gentle grace, with what
serene
Unconsciousness, ye wear the triple crown
Of youth and beauty and the fair renown
Of a great name, that ne’er hath tarnished
been!
A fine tribute, and I like the calendar
for it. But what a pity that so many
long-dead historians will smile and nudge
each other in Valhalla over that “ne’er
hath tarnished been!”
* * * *
“Chevroford”: The Victorian Gov-
ernment now has a brand new,
ultra-fashionable tourist bureau in
Collins-street where the clerks draw air-
conditioned breath and dispense travel
information in an atmosphere of fluores-
cent light and Holly wooden surround-
ings. A gigantic mural painting depicts
all the various methods of seeing
Australia, from Captain Cook’s En-
deavour and the four-wheeled cab
to the aeroplane and the glider.
On the floor is an immense rubber
carpet decorated with alleged fac-
similes of aboriginal drawings culled
from the caves of the Centre. The
parallel rows of inquiry desks and win-
dows nearly reach the length of the
bar of the Working Men’s Club at
Mildura. The Cabbage State s revenue
from the tourist traffic has risen in the
last eight years from a quarter to half
a million and is still on the upgrade.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: An unromantic insti-
tution, the law. Sydney owns—or did
own —an Italian singer who used to make
the lanes and byways melodious with
Italian opera. Heads would come out
of windows when he appeared, pennies
would rattle on the pavement. The lane
beside The Bulletin office was often
made a more cheerful place by his pres-
ence, and his most ardent client in recent
weeks has been “Pilot,” who described
him as a better troubadour than any
bookie who ever shouted the odds, and
who was always ready to lay him six-
pence to nothing that he could not render
“Una furtiva lagrima” or some other
choice morsel. But, as a minstrel, the
visitor has ceased to be. A constable
found him in Bent-street with his modern
version of the lyre, “listened to three
songs, smiled and arrested him.” It
appears that he “disturbs doctors, dentists
and others at work with his singing, ’
and a magistrate told him that he was
liable to six months’ gaol, and bound
him over to be “of good behavior.” I
trust the singer has a sense of humor.
To bind a man over for singing tuneful
opera in a mechanically noisy city where
police cars parade up and down the main
streets bawling “Keep to the left” and
four spruikers are allowed to destroy the
peace of my street every Friday night
seems to call for a hearty laugh.
DRESS REFORMERS.
“A number of Sydney Uni. medical students have
defied conventions and challenged authority by attend-
ing lectures in shorts.”
Stout fellows! Disregarding old and mossy
Traditions, flouting academic rules,
Galens and /Esculapii in posse,
Bare-legged, bare-armed they marched into
the schools.
Some startled dons grew hot beneath their
collars,
Others, I’ll bet, emitted angry snorts;
It touched them on the raw to think of
scholars
Toeing the line in shorts.
Had it occurred beside the Cam or Isis,
A garb like this upon a lecture floor
Would have precipitated such a crisis,
I’ll venture, as was never known before.
But where they’re less inclined to sweat than
shiver
In old-world educational resorts,
Except in running grounds and on the river
What should they want with shorts?
Do you suppose, when wit and wisdom bubbled
From Plato’s lips in Grecian groves of yore,
That immemorial professor troubled
Or cared a deener what his pupils wore?
I seem to see them, thrilling at the gestures
And words wherewith his hearers he exhorts,
Youthful disciples in all kinds of vestures,
From flowing robes to shorts.
Here’s to you, medicos still in the making,
And wishing your sartorial coup success,
First of your clan, exotic modes forsaking,
To strike a blow for seasonable dress!
And, take a bard’s assurance in addition,
Whatever frown official brows distorts,
That none of you will be a worse physician
For soaking up profesional tuition
In sleeveless shirts and shorts.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Minto”: Why shouldn’t psychologists
and psychiatrists charge for their advice
(B. 22/11 /*39)? Even newspapers have
been known to do the same thing. Lon-
don “Tit Bits” for years offered to give
any recipe for Is. A Scotch friend of
mine now living in Sydney sent in his
bob and inquired how to cure his red
nose. The reply came back: “Drink
till it goes blue.” He’s never forgiven
nor forgotten.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: According to a Camberwell
(Vic.) councillor, the world doesn’t yet
know Hitler’s secret weapon. Three
weeks before the outbreak of Armaged-
don the Camberwell man was touring
in Germany, and he heard on all sides
about a death-ray which was tucked up
the sleeve of the Fiihrer. As concrete
evidence of its existence, his car and six
others were stopped outside Stuttgart
without any visible agency. A Nazi
guard explained that they had run against
a “hidden ray” which in due course would
be used against the tanks of the Allies.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Education has its diffi-
culties. A Melbourne woman who has
a horror of militarism and of most
modern tendencies wished to bring up
her child in a more favored atmo-
sphere. She kept her from school, care-
fully supervised her reading, never took
her to the talkies, banned newspapers
from the household and discouraged the
reading of all but the most uplifting
literature. Then the mother was de-
lighted to discover a private school whose
teachers seemed to be completely im-
bued with her own principles, and sent
her child there. With the approach
of Christmas mamma took the child to
the toy department of the Myer store.
“You can have anything you like,” she
said. “What would you like, darling?”
“A gun and a pair of handcuffs,” was
the prompt reply.
* * * *
“Ming”: A voice floated into the street
from a side entrance of the terrace. “Bill,”
it yelled, “tell y’ father t’ git up an’ come
down here quick and fix up me Sieg-
fried. It’s broke an’ let all the clothes
down in the dirt.
* * * *
“Jonni”: “S. M. Herald” of Nov. 23
printed a picture of the Knapsack Gully
bridge, on Lapstone Hill, at
the eastern foot of the Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.), and
cheerfully announced that it
was “built by convict labor
in 1867 for railway traffic.”
By ’67 convict labor outside
her Majesty’s prisons had
been unheard of for over 20
years in N.S.W.; apart from
that, the tendency to describe
any old building or public
work surviving from the
penal era as “convict built”
is absurd. Most of the more
notable early-day erections
still in existence were
constructed under private
contract. Stonemasons, bricklayers, car-
penters and joiners employed on
them may have been lagged and
done time, but the contractors had
to get their labor, and especially
their skilled labor, where they could,
and never troubled about a good trades-
man’s personal record. Most of Francis
Howard Greenway’s churches St.
James’s in Sydney and St. Matthew’s at
Windsor (N.S.W.), for instance —were
built by contractors, and so was The
King’s School at Parramatta, though the
boys there have always had a legend that
the century-old schoolhouse was put up
by chain-gangs, who even left a ghost
or two behind them.
* * * *
“Fashion P.”: Consider the progress
of Australia’s R. G. Casey, hailed in
London as the “best dressed and most
handsome Australian.” Reporters and
cameramen followed him to Savile Row
when he went to be fitted for a uniform,
noted him dining with the King, attend-
ing the Commons, going to Aldershot,
inspecting munition works and shipyards
and broadcasting from the 8.8. C. Then
to France to give the Maginot the once-
over, an inspection of the front and, as
a climax, a nine-course dinner in the
line. Yes, it’s a lovely war.
* * * *
“J.G.”: I saw my first Bulletin a
good many years before “Mat’s Mate”
(B. 15/11/’39) —before it donned its red
overcoat, in fact. As a boy at Buninyong
(Vic.) in the early ’eighties my family
lived next door to a parson. The parson
had a boy about my own age. And
"But really, Prendergast, I only JUST touched it!”
“I ain't takin' no chances—l lost meself once.”
someone in Sydney sent this lad a Bul-
letin each week. The parson cast a
horrified eye over the first one, and then
sternly ordered his son not to read or
even open the iniquitous journal, but
told him he could, if he liked, give the
paper to me unopened when it arrived
each week. Apparently it didn’t matter
to the parson whether I went to hell or
not. Every Sunday afternoon the boy
next door and I and a couple of other
youngsters on the way to Sunday school
would make a detour to a shady tree, and
under this we went through the outlawed
paper from cover to cover, often clean
forgetting to go to Sunday school at all.
* * * *
“Pitt-street”: A Sydney sassiety crowd
proposes to usher in the New Year with
a golf match in which the players will
wear evening dress—just another silly im-
portation from the land of wooden nut-
megs, glamor-goils and gangsters. Ameri-
cans call it “going ga-ga.” Australians
will put it more bluntly.
* * * *
“F.S.”: I talked to a woman at the
Sydney Exhibition of Modern Art and
she loved everything. I talked to another
and she detested it. I heard the official
announcers descanting on the superlative
merits of this picture and of that, and I
read the contrary opinions of critics of
the rival sheets. And I wondered how
much all the excitement was due to what
was in the pictures and how much was
due to the advertising ballyhoo that
heralded the show. I also wondered just
how much all these diverse opinions were
worth in view of the fact that Van Gogh
adored Meissonier and hated Ingres and
Gauguin detested Meissonier and adored
Ingres; yet Van Gogh and Gauguin
admired each other’s work. In short, can
any argument over aesthetics make sense?
* V * *
“Wymac”: For six months my old
friend Creaker, a victim of arthritis in
the knees, had been congratulating him-
self on securing a flat where an elevator
was a feature. Yesterday he was charter-
ing a furniture remover, and to my query
regarding his sudden change of residence
he said “I had to move ; some blasted
refugees have bought the building and
turned the passenger lift into a kitchen-
ette.”
* * * *
“Nswgr”: Sydney suburbanites who
travel to the city by rail will welcome
the new dispensation, commencing with
1940, under which classes will be
abolished. The second-classers (vastly in
the majority) will have a better chance
of a seat at peak hours ; the first-classers
will no longer be irked by the conviction
that the privilege for which they paid
was being shared by thousands of
scalers. And all hands will be glad that
the silly system of sticking fresh paper
labels on carriages, changing their class,
every few miles is to be dropped. Under
the present system it is quite possible
to enter a second-class carriage in a
waiting train at a terminus, become
immersed in the morning’s newspaper,
and to be aroused when the journey has
commenced by a demand for sixpence
because a porter has been round changing
the pasted labels and raising the class
to first.
* * * *
“K.P.”: The other day a Brisbane
couple had to seek help to ensure the
present and future security of their nine
healthy normal children, aged from 14
years to seven months, eight of them Aus-
tralian-born. A Canadian ex-soldier, the
father came to Australia with his English
wife in 1926. Their only application for
Government assistance was in July, 1939,
when his health broke down. The re-
sponse was three blankets and some
clothes for the kids. Child sustenance
weekly allowance is 3s. 9d. each—that
allowed for State child-wards is 10s.
weekly. It speaks well for the warm-
heartedness of Brisbane people that 49
citizens offered to adopt one or more,
either permanently or till the father got
work, and many others sent gifts of
food or clothing. It also casts light on
the reasons why most working-class
families follow the example of the better-
off and indulge in one or two home-
blessings only.
* * * *
“N.M.”: In Maoriland a man of 65
lately applied for leave to go to school
with a grandchild. He insisted that he
should start in Primer I. Applicant was
a Maori, totally illiterate, who wished
to remedy the defects of his early life.
The District Education Board turned the
proposal down.
* * * *
“C.H.”: I’m glad the Turks are on our
side in the current international rumpus.
In the last one two of them, the Mullah
Abdulla and Gool Mahomed, started war
in Australia under the Turkish flag at
Broken Hill at 10 o’clock on the morn-
ing of New Year’s Day, 1915. They fired
on the trucks of a picnic train, killing
three people and wounding six others.
The train returned to Broken Hill, and
armed police and militia set out to repel
the Turkish forces. Before the pursuers
could get to close quarters the Turks
added another victim to their list by
shooting a man dead on his verandah.
Having done this, they took cover
amongst some quartz rocks a few hun-
dred yards west of the Cable Hotel. A
mounted constable was struck by two
bullets at the outset, and then firing com-
menced on both sides. The attacking
party spread out on the adjoining hills
and kept up a vigorous fire. At the end
of the battle one Turk was lying dead
and the other was dying of wounds. A
small red flag with a white crescent and
star was sticking in a crevice of a boulder
above the bodies. The Mullah was a
butcher ; Gool sold ice-creams.
* * * *
“Tano Fama”: Bert Royle would
have been interested in the success of
the film “The Wizard of Oz” in its cur-
rent Australian showings. When the
stage play of the same name had its first
performance in New York, Royle and
J. C. Williamson booked seats. To their
amazement the curtain went up on
“Djin-Djin,” written by Royle, and
stolen complete from the Australian-com-
posed overture to the tag line. Even
the scarecrow dance made famous here
by Johnny Collins was reproduced by
Fred Stone, now foremost American
comedian, who, incidentally, made his
reputation with this novelty. Nothing
could be done about it. The American
copyright laws gave and still give out-
side composers and authors practically
no protection. The stage version of this
musical show is now a perennial in the
U.S.A.
TONGUE-TWISTERS OR THE WORD
DEGREE.
“He repeated the words ‘lrish _ Constabulary,
‘idiosyncrasies’ and ‘British Constitution reasonably
well.” — Police-court evidence in a charge oj drunken-
ness against a motorist.
Quaint uses, verily, for words to show,
Queer indicators to determine such
Perplexing problems as to whether or no
A chap has had what’s called “a drop too
much.”
“Irish Constabulary” failed to tell
Upon his suspect powers of elocution;
“Idiosyncrasies” he weathered well
And finished up on “British Constitution.
Three lingual hurdles in his course they set,
Traps warranted to trip a tiddleyed tongue,
The sort of obstacles past which to get
Might baffle anyone who’s fairly “sprung.”
He hopped th’ official title for the lads
Who made to Erin’s woes their contribution,
Skimmed the pedantic synonym for fads
And fought his way through “British Con-
stitution.”
Was he just mellow, would you say, or shot?
Ah, only Beaks may solve such points as
these.
“Irish Constabulary” floored him not,
He never jibbed at “idiosyncrasies.”
And should you ever feel a qualm about
Your own sobriety, here’s one solution:
Try these authenticated fav’rites out,
And, should there still persist a haunting doubt,
Essay your luck at “British Constitution”!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


Cioeutttfui
(/** CRAVEN A
& 3190
MADE SPECIALLY
PREVENT SORE THROATS
POLITICAL POINTS
A first-class row at Canberra over
soldiers’ pay, with election in the
balance, was still to be settled when this
Bulletin went to the printer. Cabinet
proposed a reduction from the Bs. a day
originally mentioned to the old Digger
rate of ss. The answer to that is sup-
plied by the Commonwealth statistician:
£1 today buys only 58 p.c. of what it
bought in 1914. Pay must be as fair to
the men as the country can afford ; and
there should not be an election. Labor
wants one, as it would on this sort of
issue. Curtin shrewdly pointed out that
“the proposition that any militiaman
who feels he cannot carry on at ss. a
day may obtain a discharge places de-
cent young men in the position of
becoming official deserters or mercen-
aries.” Only a Government clean off its
head could fall into an election on this
issue.
Maintaining faith in the “mighty
Soviet” and the “great Stalin” to the
last, Granny “Herald,” on the very day
Soviet ’planes started raining death and
destruction on open Finnish towns, came
out with this:
Unlike Hitler, Stalin has hitherto con-
fined his gains at the expense of his weaker
neighbors to strategic objectives, without
seeking territorial aggrandisement. While
employing the Nazi method of intimida-
tion he has carefully abstained from the
direct use of armed force. The latest form
of pressure upon Finland may well be
directed, therefore, not to invasion, but
to breaking the sturdy Finnish nerve
through diplomatic and financial attrition.
Next day the shocking old lady was
swearing like a trooper.
As the only country to pay its war
debts, Finland in its trouble touches
Uncle Sam in a tender spot. The war-debt
payments have been glorified in films and
innumerable publications, which have
also shown Uncle Sam benevolently help-
ing Finnish trade expansion. As a result,
Uncle Sam finds himself suddenly smitten
by a conscience, without seeing his way
clear to do anything practical about it,
or justify his doing nothing. A “moral
embargo” has been put on supplying the
Soviet with ’planes; Roosevelt has ex-
pressed the “profound shock” the in-
vasion has caused, and New York “Herald-
Tribune” has declared that “the United
States owes a duty to decent opinion to
express horror and detestation at this
latest totalitarian crime.” But that
doesn’t go far towards laying a well-
nurtured conscience.
Maoriland Minister Semple, flourish-
ing before railway worshop employees
an Auckland Communist manifesto incit-
ing workers not to pay their debts, mort-
gage liabilities or house rents: “Those
who printed this document have the in-
stincts of burglars and the souls of vipers.
They are cowardly, dishonest and not fit
to live in this or any other free country.
They are white-livered, dishonest curs.”
Semple must be in need of a holiday ;
he isn’t usually given to flattering.
Pearce has been found a job on the
“Defence Board of Business Adminis-
tration.” The board is needed. Chair-
man is Essington Lewis, of 8.H.P.; he
keeps a controlling eye on suppliers of
equipment, stores and munitions. Nor-
man Myer, of the Melbourne Myer firm,
watches clothing, textile requirements,
foodstuffs and feeding arrangements.
Both have been in their jobs for some
time. Pearce is added to look after,
of course, “general administrative
matters.”
The one sound point in A.L.P. oppo-
sition to another A.I.F. going abroad is
the uncertainty over countries at present
neutral. Menzies as well was alarming
on the same doubt only a week or two
back. If there is still a doubt “early in
the new year,” when the Second A.I.F.
is to leave “for a theatre of war,” send-
ing it beyond Australian territory will
have more opposition than Curtin repre-
sents.
Total amount spent on getting Yarra-
lumla, Canberra, ready as a ducal resi-
dence is stated by Minister Perkins as
£126,169—£108,719 on the building and
£17,450 for furnishings. An entirely new
castle could not have cost more, and a
IN BROTHERLY LOVE.
“The tasks of the Communist party in the sphere of foreign policy are to continue
the policy of peace and to strengthen the international bonds, of friendship with the working
people of all countries who are interested in peace and friendship among nations."
Stalin, to the 18th Congress of the party this year.
squadron of fighting ’planes would have
cost less. On the Sydney residence,
Admiralty House, the amount expended
is given as £68,839. That this sum has
been spent is not questioned for a
moment; how it possibly could have been
there spent is a baffling mystery.
Foil’s “There are no ‘wet’ canteens for
either officers or men in military camps”
was last week’s thinnest dispensing oi
eyewash. But, he explained, officers
and sergeants’ messes are permitted to
stock intoxicating liquor.” Officers in no
circumstances have canteens; the supply
in the mess is the equivalent. That is
“wet,” and Foil’s “There are no ‘wet’ can-
teens in any camp” was shallow, evasion.
For exposing ignorance in question form
Ashley deserved no better; but the Dig-
gers do.
The Menzies Government has man-
aged to squeeze out another lid. a bushel
for wheat, now 2s. 10|d. for bagged and
2s. B|d. for bulk at ports. Canberra
doesn’t like the marketing outlook, and
expects to lose money. It does not expect
to get back more than about £8,500,000
from home sales, and must depend on
overseas markets for the £ 14,000,000-odd
it will need to balance the transaction.
Menzies warned growers that they could
not expect this sort of thing to go on if
large stocks failed to find buyers abroad,
and repeated an earlier statement that
restriction of acreage would have to oe
discussed.
Queensland’s Legislative Assembly
went into recess for seven months from
November 23 after sitting for 51 days
and passing 37 measures, five days and
four measures more than the previous
session. Chief result: 1850 dreary and
useless pages of “Hansard,” nine less
than last year, with the bad grammar
corrected and the bad language omitted
as usual. A Provincial Council of six
under a Federal Government of the kind
Australia in the late 1890’s expected to
get and didn’t would have done many
times the real work at a small fraction
of the expense.
Platform of the Abolition of State
Parliaments League, launched in Sydney:
(1) To maintain loyalty to the Throne
and to strengthen the economic unity
of the Empire. (2) To secure abolition
of State Parliaments and to vest all
legislative power in the Federal Parlia-
ment. (3) To institute, support and en-
courage similar movements throughout
the Commonwealth and its dependencies.
C. J. A. Moses, g.m. of A.8.C., men-
tioned (B. 1/11/’39) “a building plan
for all States, involving an expenditure
of £700,000, drawn up in 1938 and
approved by the Government ” and a
credit balance of £50,021 from last year,
“which was transferred to the building
fund.” “In view of the urgent necessity
of new buildings” that balance could
“hardly be regarded as unduly large.
The Bulletin repeated that the Govern-
ment should not tolerate grandiose build-
ing in wartime, and that the building
fund,” being a result of excessive taxation,
belongs to the nation and should be
transferred to the war fund. Harrison,
P.M.G. has now instructed the Com-
mission that “no capital works are to
be undertaken by it during the war.
Accumulated profits of £250,000 are to
go into war loans.
Tas. Labor isn’t enamored of the pro-
posal that its Premier, Dwyer-Gray,
should be Governor, believing that it
would find holding the Denison seat diffi-
cult without the personal vote for Gray.
The Speck, like all the mainland States,
doesn’t need a Governor, and Tas. Labor
now has a great chance to set a good
example.
Minister Stewart, continuing his attack
on prices quoted for military boots,
repeated at Canberra that there had been
“a deliberate attempt at war profiteering.”
He “named” 10 firms, four from Mel-
bourne and six from Sydney. On one
line he alleged an advance of 4s. 7£d.
on the lowest quotation received
several weeks previously. Threatened
Government production would, when the
bills came in, make the most extravagant
profiteering seem cheap. The Govern-
ment should get hold of a pattern boot,
settle on an economic price, and insist
on delivery of the specified article in
required quantity as an urgent war
measure.
Melbourne city councillors, backed by
daily papers, have been defending Fawk-
ner Park from the Defence Department,
which required 20 acres for adminis-
trative buildings. Councillors and press
bellowed that there were lots of other
places; defence authorities retorted that
barracks and administration must be
cheek-by-jowl and not separated by a
river or a string of suburbs. Headlines
like “The Fawkner Park Grab” in daily
sheets carried the inference that dailies
are self-sacrificing defenders of Australian
liberties and the Defence Department is
engaged in doing something else. The
Commonwealth can silence these con-
troversialists whenever it likes by exer-
cising its national emergency powers and
taking the park. There is an emergency.
From Molongloside:
The supplementary Federal Budget was pre-
sented by Acting Treasurer P. C. Spender on
Nov. 30. The Government has “decided not
to increase further the burden of taxation for
Defence this financial year” because fresh im-
posts would “merely delay the recovery of our
economy and interfere with the full prosecu-
tion of our war programme.” It will be the
policy of the Government to “draw for war
purposes on the savings of the whole com-
munity and to ask the nation to content itself
with a slower rate of civil development than in
the past, in the interests of Defence.” Hence
there is to be control of capital flow to direct
private accumulations, “firstly into Government
war loans, secondly into enterprises indirectly
necessary for war activity.” Savings certificates
are to be issued for the benefit of small loan
investors, but the rate of interest on all war
loans will be “low.” The new taxation already
decided on represents an increase of £8,000,000
this year and the revised estimates bring the
original Budget provision of £33,000 000 for
Defence un to £62,000,000, of which £46,181,000
will be found from loans—total loans for all
purposes, £48,931,000. Departments other than
Defence are to be asked to economise to the
extent of £1,617,000, but there will be offset
war increases in many civil branches. Total
revenue is estimated at £101,490,000, and ex-
penditure at £101,452,000, leaving a surplus of
£38,000. It is obvious that we are in for a
hard time —especially if State Governments are
allowed to continue in squandermania.


The Old Ge.ey [v\a^£
SUE HHXT
x SHE USTA BE / * 41
* AmdTHevve
MADE YOU CnO DRY
-[DO
FELLOW FEELING.
“‘Permission to administer stimulants to horses racing in Sydney would not be granted under any circumstances,’ declared the chairman of the A.J.C. stipendiary stewards.”


«W»: @ I
,’S SCISSORS OUT.EIT ;g. a
m
if . W.-INO ,8.A1.<
rs
601—FOUR-PAIR SCISSOR CAS~. Case
liand-made, of fancy leather, velvet
lined. Size about 81in. x 3in. when
folded. Fitted with 4 best-quality
Sheffield-made Scissors—l 7in. Cutting-
out, 1 Sin. Household, 1 Embroidery and
I Nail, 37/6 Complete.
Jt'* 1 ? Flower
Scissors. Cuts
and holds the
stem of flower.
6 inches. Nickel-
plated, 13/s
each.
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
POST
FREE
FOR
CASH
TV.' ■
C3 —Two Razors in Flat Case. Best Quality
Hollow-ground, with Xylonite Handles, in
Leatherette-covered Case. Price, 33/6
C4—Fitted with 2 Medium Quality Black
Handle Razors, 23/6
m
The Ideal Lifelong Gift for
The Allegro Hones and Strops
pattern Blades. 25/-
a Man.
Gillette-
W. JNO. BAKER
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PTY.,
Li D.,
W PERSONAL ITEMS
Prof. Laby, of Melbourne University,
suggests as a defence against magnetic
mines a fleet of wooden ships which
would drag electro-magnets over the
minefield and explode the things harm-
lessly. Laby, who is Professor of Natural
Philosophy and won world-wide dis-
tinction for research work under Prof.
Sir Joseph Thomson, Nobel Laureate, in
London, co-operated in designing one of
the first gas-masks during the 1914-18
war.
R. C. Addison, chairman of the M.L.
Associated Banks, has been managing for
the ’Wales in Maoriland for the past 11
years. He is the thirteenth child of G. W.
F. Addison, a Sydney magistrate of the
’eighties and ’nineties. After matricu-
R. C. ADDISON.
lation, R.C. jackerooed on a station out
Condobolin way, and on returning to the
city entered the ’Wales’s Sydney office
some 38 years ago. He was an early
graduate, and twice Essay Prize winner
of the Bankers’ Institute, became staff
inspector in 1921, and later acted in
charge of metropolitan (N.S.W.) division.
He plays golf.
General Tom Bridges, who passed on
in England the other day, had to make an
odd request on coming to S.A. as Gover-
nor in 1922. At the start of the last war
he found two British battalions on the re-
treat from Mons, too weary even to move.
Hastily buying some children’s musical
instruments, he gave a tin whistle to his
trumpeter, played the toy drum himself
and somehow encouraged all hands to
march down the road into safety. An
English poet turned this into verse, and
the hero of it became so sick of the
sound of it that he made a firm stipu-
lation that it should never be recited or
sung in Adelaide in his presence.
After months of alarums and excur-
sions, Victorian National Gallery trustees
have given the job of drawing-master to
Albert Ernest Newbury. He was bora
in Melbourne, educated at Geelong Col-
lege, has won once or twice most of the
art prizes offered in Victoria, and is a
foundation member of the Australian
Academy. He has a penchant for put-
ting Corotesque ladies in his Australian
landscapes, and is a sound draughtsman.
He married a daughter of E. J. Trumble.
When two old-timers met in a Brisbane
hotel recently there was an “anvil
chorus.” Both were blacksmiths in Bar-
caldine in the ’eighties and both now
own stations. Ben Dickson, who’d come
in from his 50,000-acre Lake run, near
Hughenden, carried the knot up from
Victoria in ’B3, drove for Cobb and Co.
and then turned to the forge. Sam
Clemesha, who owns Zara and Bervock,
Muttaburra way, hit Barcaldine from the
south a year later. After being cobbers
of the smithy for some years they drifted
apart, and neither saw the other for 30
years until, one 80 and the other 74,
they met in the Brisbane pub.
Dead in Adelaide (S.A.) at 64, the man
after whom the Simpson Desert in Cen-
tralia was named. A. A. Simpson was
always a great worker for the public
welfare and gave much financial help
for interior exploration, his most recent
effort being to finance the Madigan ex-
pedition, in which his son, Robert, was
wireless operator. Born at Kent Town,
A. A. Simpson was educated at Prince
Alfred College and Adelaide Uni. He
was elected to the City Council in 1901,
and was mayor from 1913 to 1915. He
did a lot of war work in 1914-18, and
reported to the Government on things
such as old-age pensions in Europe and
the introduction of new industries. His
chairmanships included the Military Hos-
pitals Committee, Metropolitan County
Board, S.A. Soldiers’ and Patriotic Funds,
Royal Geographical Society, as well as
presidencies and vice-
dittos of Adelaide and
Associated Chambers
of Commerce. His
honors included
C.M.G., C.8.E., the
Medaille du Roi
Albert, and a Knight-
hood of Grace in the
Order of St. John of
Jerusalem.
When and if the rail-
way is ever extended
from Bourke to
Cunnamulla, at least
one siding should be
named Elliottown to
mark the long-sustained
advocacy of A. W. E.
Elliott, of Eulolo. With
40 years’ knowledge of
the country out there,
he is satisfied that such
a line would be
strategic and develop-
mental, and would tap
the country right out
to Longreach. Eulolo,
by the way, should be
visited by people who
imagine western home-
steads to be arid spots
—it grows oranges,
lemons, peaches, apri-
cots, grapes and mul-
berries of a quality
seldom seen in fruit-
shops. Its owner paid his annual Cup
visit to Melbourne this year and backed
the first four.
Commonwealth Literary Fund Fellow-
ships have been awarded to four authors,
another is to receive a straight-out grant,
and the six Australian universities will
get £lOO each for a lectureship in Aus-
tralian literature. Frank Dalby Davison,
a story by whom will appear in next
week’s Bulletin, has been given a twelve
month’s fellowship (£250) to enable him
to complete short stories on pioneering
life in middle-western Queensland and a
novel on contemporary city and country
life. Xavier Herbert, whose novel, Capri-
cornia, won the £250 Commonwealth
prize for fiction last year, gets a similar
subsidy to allow him to finish a novel
on the half-caste problem. A six months’
fellowship (£125) goes to Stella Miles
Franklin, who won the S. H. Prior Mem-
orial Prize in 1936 and 1939. Miss Frank-
lin is to complete a biography of Joseph
Furphy, who as “Tom Collins,” wrote
Such Is Life. A six months’ fellowship has
also been given to Doris Boake Kerr, a
niece of Barcroft Boake. In 1917, as
“Capel Boake,” she burst into the lime-
light with a novel, Painted Clay, and
has followed up her success with others,
including The Romany Mark and The
Dark Thread. A £lOO grant goes to
William Hatfield, author of six fine out-
back novels, several travel books and
many excellent Bulletin short stories.
James Chittick reached the Grand
Old Man class in Seymour (Vic.). He
was 48 years a shire councillor, was a
member of the water trust, and deputy
coroner. He was on the executives of the
Municipal and Water Trusts Associations,
a Senior Grand Deacon of the Grand
Lodge of Victoria, and a Past Grand-
master of the M.U.1.0.0.F. Seventy-one
at the end.
J. B. Cramsie is the Commonwealth’s
best-known meat man and, despite several
attempts to take him overseas, he has
remained an Australian. Swifts offered
him one of the biggest meat jobs in the
world at four times his then current
salary. He refused it, as he refused
David Graaf’s offer to go to S. Africa
at a princely salary. Cramsie came of a
pastoral family at Balranald (N.S.W.),
and after a few years at Queen’s College,
Melbourne, went to Central Queensland.
At 21 he managed one of the biggest
J. B. CRAMSIE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
stations there. He managed the first
meatworks at Longreach, and became
chairman and general manager of
Homebush Metropolitan Meatworks in
Sydney after the war. In his day L. F.
Swift said the plant was the best run in
the world. Cramsie was first chairman
of the Australian Meat Council, and
represented Australian producers before
the British Royal Commission on Food-
stuffs and the Imperial Economic Com-
mittee in 1925. He is a councillor of the
Royal Agricultural Society. The magni-
ficent annual meat exhibit at Sydney
Show which he founded was the first
show-meat exhibit in the world.
COLONEL LENNOX, A.A.Q.M.G., 1st
Div., Sydney, who has been transferred
to the same post in Westralia.
“Oxmead”: The “S.M.H.’s” Canberra
contributor (27/II /’39) describes Harry
Gregory, M.H.R., as “the G.O.M. of the
Country Party” and “an ex-Premier of
Westralia.” He may be well entitled to
the former distinction as an octogenarian
whose Parliamentary career began in 1897
and has continued ever since—except for
a few months’ spell after he lost his
State seat and before he gained his
Federal one —but Gregory was never
Premier in Perth. He held the Mines
portfolio as often as his party was in
office, but the nearest he ever got to the
topmost place was when he and Frank
Wilson looked to be both in the running,
and Newton Moore was accepted by the
party as an alternative to either. Since
1912 the Country party has kept Gregory
in a safe Parliamentary niche, though he
joined it none too willingly.
Knight John Evans, who has been on
the Hobart Marine Board since 1891,
will retire this month. He has been off
the board only six of the 48 years, from
’O3 to ’O9, when he had a job as Premier,
coupled with Minister for Education,
Treasurer, and Chief Secretary respec-
tively. He was Speaker in 1913-14, 19lb-
-25 and 1928-34, and became Lieut.-
Governor in 1937.
Billy Brown, Queensland and Austra-
lian Test cricketer, has broken through
the ban imposed by the cricket heads
on wives travelling with their playing
husbands. Brown hasn’t a wife yet, but
he intends to appoint Miss Barbara Hart
to that position on the day before the
Queensland team sets out for the south,
and he has obtained permission for her
to accompany him. Queensland Associa-
tion executive, though admitting that the
future Mrs. Brown will establish a record
that can never be broken in that she
will be the first wife to travel with a
Queensland side, has intimated coldly that
its action is not to be taken as a
precedent.


on.
“XIOAS AS USUAL
/tJiat means
WHITE HORSE
n
A.
mi
A o;\
\
\v
>
X
iiitl
'Av
A\'\'
V' v
\\\ »
\\\
AY
' \W
Wx\
\\ \Ww
\ x \
' \\
\\
' , <
v\\
'Vv
\\\\
W
\
W'l
Hg» The Old Bleivd
” Whisky
of ike
r*p4i» to ih* WHITE HORSE CELLAR.
inEOINBURCR u whxh pine* tiny m*t be
m • STAGE COACH •wry Mo»o*»
«*d f uo»t which perform* .he whole jotinwy
u' eighi <Ujn id God nnd •#«
WHITE HOjjSf OISTIIUHB gDj
"U'AiW.I’USSU/"
y.s'.w
p
•\\\V
\\\\v
'l\\
\\\
vV>M
'WV-'
W'li
•'■'MY
I
i\\ v\\
aV Al
\W\
*3
\V
AM
\\ v
\\ \
M \V
\4
Av
\A
M\ \M
. \ ' 'Vo
wV t /.\\
■\V\
\\ A\ \
\i
\>\ \ i
\
'W'.'.'.i’i
ri\\‘'
’ ’ i \ \'
u
V'V'M'A
i MM
\'M. M.\
\\V \ I
' ■ l
MV
M \'
M\\
Give your friends at home or "on
Service” a bottle of this REAL OLD
SCOTCH specially packed in an
attractive gift carton at no extra
cost —a gift in the right spirit and
a practical message of goodwill
and good cheer to all who
partake of it.
White Horse
Equal to a fine liqueur


ABORIGINALITIES
“Gryllus”: Repeated attempts by a
porcupine to gain admission to a Method-
ist Tabernacle in Brisbane should not be
regarded hastily as evidence of any reli-
gious tendencies on the part of Australia’s
spikiest inhabitant. In springtime even
the porcupine is subject to strange psychic
stirrings which impel it to wander forth
on moonlit nights and otherwise depart
from the dull routine of life’s perpetual
round. The same phenomenon is notice-
able amongst other mammals who regard
themselves as far superior to porcupines.
But the church authorities were wise to
eject their unusual visitor. Had it gone
to sleep unnoticed in a pew it might
easily have been mistaken for a hassock,
and even the most restrained of wor-
shippers would find it hard to avoid un-
seemly outcry were he to kneel unex-
pectedly upon Echidna aculeata.
* * * *
“Gumblegubbin”: Two Italians at Mt.
Isa (Q.) built a 10ft. by 20ft. hut, of
which they were immensely proud. But
after enjoying the happy home for a
while they had a row, and life together
became insufferable. Each wanted to
buy the other out for peace sake, but
stubbornly neither would sell. Eventu-
ally, to settle the argument, they decided
to divide the hut; the sheets of iron in
the middle were removed, and the build-
ing sawn in two. Then Spaghetti hauled
his 10 by 10 share to another part of the
field, right away from the bletty Maca-
roni what make alia da disagree, while
Macaroni boarded up the open end of
his half and heaped maledictions on the
peeg that spoila da house.
* * * *
“Double Dee”: Two young Westralians
made a big rake-off when a farmer let
them a contract to clear 200 acres of
heavy stump country. Left behind by
timber-cutters years before, the stumps
were as dry as tinder. Boring holes into
them, the clearers poured in kerosene,
and on a windy night went around with
a fire-stick. Every stump burnt right out,
roots and all.
v * * *
“Lespy”: “When me kelpie ’ad a litter
o’ pups one time,” said old Ben the
handyman, “I picks out the best pup and
gives ’im to a bloke wot I do jobs fer. I
bumps ’im a few weeks later and asks
’im ’ow the pup’s doin’. ‘Good-oh,’ ’e
sez, ‘but I thought I’d ’ave to get rid of
’im ’cause of ’is ’habit of gettin’ under the
sofa an’ chewin’ the bottom out of it. I
simply couldn’t stop the mischievous
young cow, an’ the missus started to go
lemony about it. But I stopped ’is game
in the end,’ ’e says. ‘ ’Ow did you do it,’ I
asks, ‘smear it with mustard?’ ‘No, I
never thought o’ that,’ ’e says. ‘I sawed
the legs off the sofa! ’ ”
# * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has seen two fine cases
of courage in loneliness and pain. A
farmer loading wood had three ribs
broken by a dray-wheel going over him.
He got home (not forgetting to unharness
the horse from the capsized dray) and
lay there for over two days till found.
The other case, about the same time, was
even more striking. A middle-aged
farmer had his leg broken above the
knee by a kick from a horse. He
dragged himself along the hundred yards
to the house, set the leg, as he said, “as
well as possible with some board and a
rope,” and lived on apples and water
for four days before someone came
along.
* * * *
“Booraby”: To the abo. the bush is
an everlasting school. His method of driv-
ing fish into the shallows for a big haul
was learnt from the pelicans. The frog
chorus after rain is imitated in the frog
dance, and the brolga dance is adapted
from the quadrille parties of the native
companions on the plains. The common
call, “coo-ee,” was learnt from the bush
curlew and the koel. The corroboree
designs painted on the bodies are largely
copied from butterflies and caterpillars,
many of which are beautifully marked
with spots and stripes. There is a
legend among northern tribes that the
secret of making fire by friction
was revealed by two crossed dead-
limbs rubbing together in a hot
wind till they smoked. Hiding in
water, with just the nose above the sur-
face among weeds or lily leaves, was
learnt from ducks and was adapted for
catching the birds. Their fishing nets and
string games were suggested by spiders’
webs ; and in many other ways they have
benefited by close observation of the
things about them.
* * * *
“Toheroa”: If “Jesmon d” (B.
15/11/’39), who comments on the calm
weather that appears to precede an earth
tremor, lived in Maoriland he would find
this peculiarity so well recognised that
the denizens describe it as “earthquake
weather.” Many a time on a still grey
morning I’ve known housewives of fore-
“ Dinku m, cap., I ain't carrying any contraband !”
sight remove the jams and pickles from
the pantry shelves to the floor, and their
action was usually justified by about ten
o’clock, when a series of earth tremors
shook the countryside. These tremors
were supposed to be not of volcanic
origin but due to displacement of air
somewhere in underground regions, as
presumably “J.’s” quakes were. They
occurred mainly in spring, and that there
was some mysterious connection between
atmospheric stillness and underground
movement was never doubted by those
who became familiar with them.
* sfc * *
“L.A.S.”: A queer accident happened
to a horse that had won five bush races
in N.Q. He was scratching his throat
with his offside hind hoof when he
somehow got it jammed in his mouth, the
toe of the shoe fast under his front teeth.
He fell down like that, and it took two
of us all we could to free him. But it
had so strained his mechanism that he
never faced a starter again.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: When Charters Towers
(N.Q.) was in its roaring heyday a young
western station-owner was yarning with
a friend in the Metropolitan’s crowded
bar. Entered a heavyweight pug of more
than local repute for whom bystanders
made respectful way. “Bet you £lOO
you’re not game to kick that chap in the
stern,” said the friend. “Got the money
on you?” asked the other. “Yes,” was
the reply. “It’s a bet,” said Charley, who
forthwith walked across and planted a
perfect goalie on the pugilist’s counter.
The astonished and enraged victim
whirled with both hands ready for action,
but his assailant spoke quickly: “Forget
it and you’re on fifty quid—dinkum, I
mean it. Shake hands.” The pug stared,
relaxed and offered a paw like a grubbed
stump. Charley collected the bet, handed
half of it to the thoroughly mollified
man of stoush and thereby gained a life-
long friend and admirer of his quick wits
—in addition to fifty quid.
* * * *
“Keira”: During one open season Dan
and Ned, each owning a good possum
dog, took them down to Ned’s river pad-
dock on a moonlit night to settle a bet,
the one whose dog found the first possum
being the winner. For an hour not a
sound was heard from either dog. Then
Dan’s dog suddenly tore down to the
creek bank and started barking furiously
right where Ned had some fishing-lines
set. So persistent was Bluey that Ned
tried his lines ; strangely enough the 701 b.
groper he hauled in had a possum’s tail
sticking out of its mouth. Dan had won.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: I liked Scorfield’s sketch
of the polled merino ram getting it in the
pants from a horned bloke (B.
15/11/ ’39); but I liked best the champion
weightlifter who carried the ram to the
truck. I’ve juggled rams and have seen
some hefty fellows juggle ’em, too, but
I’ve yet to meet the bloke who could
pick one up in his arms and waltz off
with it. Test your strength with one of
’em, Ted, and see what a couple of hun-
dredweight of live ram feels like if you
can manage to get it on the hip ; it’ll
weigh a bit more than the Christmas
turkey.
“Nagheer”: Calliope (northern N.S.W.)
holds the season’s championship so far
for queer snakebite cases. A 14-year-old
boy was riding on a scuffler working
through a corn crop when the machine
cut a black snake in two. The head half
was thrown up on to the lad’s bare foot
and promptly sank its fangs. First-aid
with a plough-rein tourniquet and a sharp
knife, followed by medical attention,
averted further consequences. The local
Joe Blake seems to have a knack of get-
ting mixed up with farm machinery. Two
years ago a neighbor who was stooking
the output of a reaper-and-binder as it
worked through a crop picked up a sheaf
and managed to throw it away just in
time to avoid a savage strike from a 3ft.
brown snake well and truly bound by
the tail.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: “Wippegong’s” luritja
death-bone (B. 8/11/’39) probably served
many times. Popular belief has it that
the mere knowledge that he had been
marked as a victim caused the pointee
to wilt away and die. In many cases this
was the reaction, but occasionally the
intended victim refused to die. Then, so
that prestige should not be lost, the
kurditcha men were sent out. Ambush-
ing the victim-who-refused-to-die, the
kurditcha men spreadeagled him, the
while the chief medicine man deftly
slipped that long, delicately tapered bone
dagger up under the lower rib on the
left side and felt for the heart. With-
drawn, the dagger left an almost in-
visible wound that oozed only a tiny
drop of blood, wiped off the moment it
appeared. # So the corpse was left with-
out sign of violence, an object lesson to
other members of the tribe that no one
could ever hope to cheat the sentence ot
the pointed bone.
* * * *
“E.O’D.” (Papua): Description of the
wedding of Fai and Hahani as per-
formed by my laundry boy, Hasu, and
told by himself:
Fai he come along me he say he wantem
woman belong wife. I say he all right, plenty
woman stop along village. All right, I findem
woman. I say, “Fai, you takem this woman
belong your wife?” Fai he say “Yes.” I say,
“Woman, you takem Fai belong your husband?”
Woman he say, “Yes.” I say, “All right, shake
hands, all fix O.K. now, you go along Fai
place, have good time.”
They go along Fai place, by-bye Fai say,
“Woman, you work along my garden.” Woman
he say, “1 no want work along your garden.”
Fai he come along me, he say, “Woman he
no good, want be wife, no want work along
garden.” I say, “All right, woman he no work
along your garden, he no good. You come
we go along village get you ’nother woman,
make him ’nother wife.”
* * * *
“Old Camp”: That N.T. romance of
lost saddlebags full of gold (B. 8/11/ ’39)
can be matched by a long-standing legend
of prospectors blowing into Coolgardie
with a yarn of having, miles out past
Kurnalpi, come on a corpse in the desert,
naked and obviously dead of thirst. Fol-
lowing the tracks in the hope of
finding clothes that might give some
clue to his identity, they came on
a dead horse, still saddled, and
with full saddlebags. These contained
specimens of the highest grade, but no
clue whatever as to where they might
have come from. Miles further back the
horse tracks were traced, until finally, on
a sand plain where recently a gale had
blown, they were lost. But direction
enough was uncovered to indicate that
the dead man had probably come from
the Warburton Ranges. Many believed
this story ; some even asserted that they
had seen and handled the specimens. But
scores of expeditions have made out to
the Warburtons in the years since, and
though gold has been discovered there
no Eldorado has yet come to light. But
there the yarn stands. It may be true;
old Coolgardie knew things as strange,
and stranger.
* * * *
“Septus”: Knocked over a few ant-
hills recently, and inside several found
some queer flat-shaped eggs which, when
broken, disclosed small goannas in an
advanced stage of incubation. What has
me wondering is, if mother go. placed
them there purposely, how was it
achieved, and how do the young gos.
open the door. Some of the nests were
hard as wood.
* * * *
“R.McL.”: The choice of Rev. John
Flynn as Presbyterian Moderator-
General recalls that his Bushman’s Com-
panion, published about 30 years ago, is
still a treasured guide, materially and
spiritually, in thousands of homesteads,
mining camps and boundary-riders’ huts
throughout Central and Northern Aus-
tralia. First-aid notes, directions for treat-
ing sicknesses, thoughts on ideals, a
selection of popular hymns, favorite pas-
sages of scripture, a service for burial of
the dead, directions for making a will,
postal information —these are only a few
of the good things that are packed into
that handy-sized volume that has un-
doubtedly been the means of saving many
lives and assuaging mental and physical
pain over nearly two generations.
EASY MONEY.
“Half an hour before the Premier’s ear reached
the scene a large tree was blown down in a storm
across the Hulahdelahr-Nugramudgee road. Mr. Mail',
assisted by other Ministers and Ms.L.A. had no
trouble in shifting the log to the side of the road.’’
~“S. M. Herald.”
Stout conqueror of many a raging storm,
Your roots, white-anted and rain-rotted,
crumbled
At last, until perforce your lengthy form
Swayed by the lashing cyclone, cracked and
tumbled.
You pitched across the road. If there had been
Some human passing he’d have been a
“goner.”
But, still, you hit the headlines, as we’ve seen—
You blocked a Premier’s car—a signal honor.
Was this your own sardonic, final joke
Conceived while in your death-throes, that
by falling
Thus you would cause a Most Important Bloke
While in pursuit of his exalted calling
His business to delay? You deemed that you
Would gain o’er him a triumph rather pretty;
That just a tree could show him who was
who—
This big-shot and his party from the city.
You slipped a cog, my large, umbrageous friend,
If such was your design. You finished second
In this keen duel. The reason I perpend:
Without one vital factor you had reckoned.
The cove you thought to baffle lent his weight—
A factor of some moment —in addition
To that of other servants of the State;
This simple fact you couldn’t calculate:
Log-rolling’s easy to a politician!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


“Wang”: “I wus humpin’ me drum
once,” said Dan, “an’ struck a little one-
horse town decked with flags an’ every-
one dressed up in their Sunday best. A
bloke tells me the Minister of Eddica-
tion’s cornin’ along to open the new
school. They’re a bit worried, though,
’count of the local member, who’s the
on’y one who knows the Minister, havin’
sent word his missus is crook an’ he
can’t get along till later. Well, about an
hour after a rather scraggy-lookin’ coot,
badly in need of a shave an’ haircut, but
well-dressed, lobs on foot. He explains
he’s the Minister, an’ that his car broke
down a coupla miles out. But knowin’
that Parliament blokes run t’ all sorts
nobody worried. He pulls out a card t’
show he’s dinkum, an’ the boss rooster
of the place starts fussin’ over him. The
Minister suggests a drink or two before
startin’ the openin’ bizness, an’ leads the
way into the pub. All the grown-up
males, includin’ meself, tramp after him,
an’ he turns it on for the crowd, pullin'
out a big roll of notes. He’s a sport, all
right, an’ after about a dozen rounds —
all his shouts nobody gives a damn
if the openin’ ceremony ain’t ever done.
After a few more we hears a commotion
outside. The john, who’s the soberest,
goes out to find a flash car with a frowsy-
dressed cove sittin’ in it, roarin’ that he’s
the Minister. The john’s just about to
run him up fer an impostor when the
member drives up an’ yells at the bloke
in the car what’s he doin’ in that rigout.
‘I went in fer a swim in the creek five
miles from here,’ yells the bloke, ‘it bein’
a hot day, an’ when I came out me duds
wus gone, an’ these wus left! ’ But nobody
wus worryin’ about him, his deputy was
dead drunk, an’ so wus everybody else.”
# * * *
“The 0.D.”: The Council has fre-
quently hazarded guesses as to the speed
of various birds. In Turin (Italy) re-
cently some curious coves took a mother
swallow from the nest, marked her legs,
carried her 79 miles away in a direct line,
and let her go. She was back at the
nest in 43£ minutes. It works out at
roughly 109 m.p.h.!
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Big Mat got a job
spreading metal for a Gippsland road
contractor. The wages were good, but
when the boss saw what a good toiler
Mat was he put on a couple more drays
to cart stone. Mat resigned. “Why?”
asked the boss. “Ain’t the money good
enough?” “Aw, the money’s all right,”
came back Mat, “but I’m worried about
the two other blokes.” “What two
blokes? ” demand the puzzled boss. “The
two I’m doin’ out of a job,” said Mat.
* # *
“Shanghai Bill”: While the wheel-
barrow is under review: John China-
man’s beats both the navvy’s tray and the
Cousin Jack, is certainly an earlier in-
vention than the product of Cornwall,
and can take a load quadruple that of
the best of its rivals with less exertion
on the part of the pusher. The secret
is in the position of the wheel, kept well
back so that part of the load lies ahead
of the axle, thus balancing the portion
that rests on the handles. Practically all
the barrowman has to do is balance and
push. Round Chinese treaty-ports I have
seen bevies of females going to and
from work de luxe: six on the
one wheelbarrow, three on each side,
back to back after the style of the Irish
jaunting-car. And the pile of mer-
chandise that the same barrow would
take —well, the mere sight would make
an Australian lumper reel with fatigue.
But it is odd that the Chinaman never
brought his barrow to Australia. In my
kid days the vegetable-John carried his
produce in a couple of deep baskets
suspended from a bamboo pole balanced
across his shoulders. The fancy-goods
merchant favored the same means of
transport, as also did the rag-and-bone
gatherer. Higher up the prosperity scale
the vegetable merchant favored a two-
wheeled handcart.
A * * *
“Gumsucker”: My most hilarious
railway-opening happened in Ballarat.
More than half a century ago the
Phoenix Foundry, having got one of the
first contracts for
Victorian locomotives,
was putting its initial
effort on the rails,
which were laid from
the foundry door, in
Armstrong-street, right
through the city to the
railway yards. Great
was the joy; great,
too, the display of silk
hats and fine raiment
—even the workers of
those days were able
to sport an occasional
belltopper. Politicians,
city councillors and
industrial heads were
there. And, of course,
all the foundry em-
ployees. Great, too, was the spouting.
Not the drivelling stuff one hears nowa-
days, but elocution. Ballarat in those
days was the home of voice culture;
every second bloke one met in Sturt-
street spouted like a minor George Rig-
nold or an Alfred Dampier. Duncan
Gillies was there. And all the minor cits.,
spreading in a vast crowd. It was truly
the day of days. Steam was up, and
standing on the footplate Gillies pro-
nounced a final benediction and ordered
a start. But steam must have been just
a bit too high, for as the wheels began
to turn the forced draught gave one ter-
rific snort. Up went a geyser of steam
and soot, and down it came. Silk hats,
dress suits, immaculate shirt fronts, all
tried to dodge, but the descending spout
neatly gathered in the lot.
* # * *
“W.H.J.”: I watched a squadron of
beetles scramble out of their winter dug-
outs one bright, sunny day. Soon there
was great activity and noise as they tuned
up before taking off. One big bomber,
with his throttle wide open, was swiftly
skimming the Siegfried Line when the
poor cow suddenly disappeared. I could
hardly believe my eyes, but sapper trap-
door spider, listening in his dugout, had
picked up his bearings and collected him
in a flash. In a few seconds I had the
lid up, and my worst fears were con-
firmed by a noise like a politicians’ war
council coming from the bowels of the
earth.
* * * »
“Philp”: To save the feet of his
favorite black kelpie the boss had taught
him to ride before him on the saddle
across the miles of gravel roads and stony
ridges to where the mustering of the
day would begin. One day the home
paddocks were to be mustered, this pre-
senting a good chance for a promising
pup to be tried out. First came the
riding lesson. The old dog, fresh from
the chain, went bounding away ahead ;
the pup was slung protestingly across
the pommel, where his struggles were
watched from the comer of the eye of
the old prad as he jogged towards the
homestead gate. Here the old dog re-
turned to the boss and begged for his
accustomed ride. One jealous glance
told -him that he had been dethroned.
“Sorry, sir, my mistake."
“ That's all right, who Were you expecting?”
With drooping head and tail at half-mast
he beat it for home, leaving the boss to
muster the sheep on his own and carry
the pup as a penalty.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: For fierceness I’ll back
the domestic cat gone bush against all
comers. Recently caught one in a trap,
and before I could release him Puss had
crippled two dogs, torn the side out of
my riding-boot, jerked the trap-peg loose,
sprang at my hack and stampeded it
homewards, and then chased me for 200
yards before throwing in the towel. I
released him from the trap with the aid
of a 9ft. pole, and when I left the cat
was reducing said pole to splinters.
* * * *
“Bluegum”: Apparently sense of
direction and sense of location don’t
mean the same thing. A Norwegian
sailor who missed his boat at a Westralian
port made his way inland and got a job
on a sawmill. One Sunday he joined
a party of other young fellows on a ’roo-
hunting expedition. Bad weather came
up, and night found the hunters ten miles
from camp and drenched to the skin.
The rest admitted they were bushed, but
“Dutchy” declared he could find the way
back —and he did. Later he graduated
from the millyard to swamping for one
of the horse-teams. One day they loaded
a big log. and when only a couple of
hundred yards from the stump it went
aground in a sandhole. The driver told
“Dutchy” to hop back to where they had
loaded and get his spoon to dig the tail
of the log clear. Twenty minutes passed
before he returned and blandly reported
that he couldn’t find the implement.
“Bosh!” snorted the irate horse-pug, “I
saw you put it on the stump after we
loaded.” “Yes,” answered “Dutchy” with
“Hey, fat’ead, take your bayonet off”
a puzzled expression, “I know I did —
but the stump is not there either!”
♦ * * *
“Yarri”: Binghi loves his bark gunyah
better than any dwelling he can be put
into ; and in a good many N.S.W. tribes
he is accommodated with one —under-
ground—when he dies. The grave, which
is 6ft. to Bft. deep and nearly square, is
dug on a low hilltop, in sandy ground
for preference, and the bottom is covered
with a sheet of bark. On that the dead
warrior is seated, with his doubled legs
lashed to his body and his arms folded
around them. A roast possum is put in
beside him. Then a strong sheet of bark
is leaned over the corpse, from above the
head to below the feet, so that when the
grave is filled in the occupied angle is
hollow —the last gunyah, where he sits,
as if meditating, as long as his bones
hold together.
* * * *
“Wandi”: Since the fox invaded its
haunts, the lyrebird builds its nest higher
from the ground. The site is usually a
slope, where there is a good getaway by
a downward flight from the front. Narran
is a poor flyer, and requires that help
when suddenly surprised on the nest. She
also faces the front, which commands a
clear view. The huge structure, built of
sticks, is camouflaged at the back to re-
semble the surroundings. A platform at
the entrance is a convenience for taking
off and landing; and across the front
awning the cast skin of a large snake is
artfully twined to scare off egg-stealers.
This skin is often carried a considerable
distance. But whereas the nest was once
often placed among rocks or other acces-
sible places, it is now commonly seen
fairly high in the fork of a tree.
* * * *
“Double Dee”: Toughest of present-
day bushwhackers would find it hard to
parallel the feat of one Westralian old-
timer, now retired. Before the days of
machine-shearing and harvesters, he
wagered a fiver he could shear 100 sheep
and reap an acre of hay in eight hours.
He finished with 20 minutes to spare.
* * * *
“Tutta”: Hair-magic runs bone-point-
ing a close second as a speller
of evil magic among most abo.
tribes. One peculiar feature of
this is that a lubra will give a
lock of her hair to her be-
trothed as a sign of her confi-
dence in him ; should she prove
unfaithful, however, the tress
he holds vests in the buck
the power of doing her evil, or even of
causing her death. An abo. in districts
where the magic operates lives in a state
of fear if he knows that an enemy is in
possession of a lock of his hair. Conse-
quently, all hair that is cut off is care-
fully burned by its owner. One of the
tribes from which hair-magic is notably
absent is the Arunta, in which every
member habitually carries with him or
her some of the hair of another, given
as a sign of friendship—possibly a
growth from the exchange of hair be-
tween a girl and her betrothed.
CHARLIE BERGAN’S PUB.
When the mercury is soaring
Like the score with Bradman m,
And the sweat is slowly pouring
From my eyebrows to my chin,
When my dog hunts up a rabbit
And they walk towards the scrub,
Sweet visions rise before my eyes
Of Charlie Bergan’s Pub.
It’s a place of milk and honey —
Or, I should say, beer and skite,
Where the prospect’s always sunny
For a bloke to make a “bite”;
Where the rouseabout and squatter
Fraternal shoulders rub,
And drinks for one, well, just am t done
At Charlie Bergan’s Pub.
It’s queer the way truth suffers
When the drinks have gone the rounds,
And the stoney-broke old buffers
Start to “bet yer twenty pounds,
And the only way to stop ’em
Is to drop a half-smoked stub,
Then stand aside while heads collide
At Charlie Bergan’s Pub.
The bloke who ran the s.p. book
Has turned the business up:
He thought Galoot was running crook,
And then it won the Cup;
All the mob was right behind him,
Still, he beat ’em to the scrub:
That’s why I’m here, with the thoughts
of beer,
And Charlie Bergan’s Pub.
N.S.W.
B. A. KER.


Who Is Your Trustee?
Does he nossess the knowledge and experience which the acceptance of that office
demands?
Permanent Trustee Co.
OF N.S.W., LTD
Incorporated 1888 to act as Executors and Trustees.
This Company offers unexcelled trust service, combining security and experience
with efficient administration.
Write for explanatory Booklet, sent free, on request
0. E. FRIEND
CECIL H. DOYLE
E. V. T. WHITTLE,
Directors'.
F. N. YARWOOD (Chairman) SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND
A. E. BOND W. G. HULL
Manager. N. L. SHAW, Assistant Manager.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday. 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,’’ 26/1/ 38.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
1929 ... 388,997 22.5p.c.= 180,000 1,528,242
1930 .. 316,936 32.5„ „ 260,000 1,585,178
1931 .. 80,421 7.5„ „ 60,000 1,605,599
1932 . . 152,803 10 „ ~ 80,000 1,678,402
1933 . . 276,199 15 ~ „ 120,000 1,834,601
1934 . . 260,884 25 „ „ 200,000 1,895,485
1935 .. 355,302 30 „ „ 2 40,000, 2,010,787
1936 .. 519,903 62.5,, „ 500,000 2,030,690
1937 .. 803,278 70 „ ~ 560,000 2,273,968
1938 . . 437,432 80 ~ „ 640,000 2,071,400
1939 .. 383,138 40 „ ~ 320,000 2,134,538
Chief factors affecting profits are metal
prices, grade of ore treated, recoveries
and costs —the cost factors are numerous
and cover a wide field. The contraction
(£54,294) in last year’s net earnings was
due to the fall in prices of metals, aver-
age London quotes for which compare
as follows: —•
Silver
Average— Lead. (Fine), Zinc.
5 years, June, 1929 ..£2O/8/- 2/6.9 £3O/7/1
5 years, June, 1934 ..£l4/6/- 1/7.3 £l5/11/-
12 months, June. 1935.. £ll/6/- 2/3.8 £l2/16/7
12 months, June, 1936.. £l6/4/5 2/2.4 £l5/3/11
12 months, June, 1937. . £23/2/8 1/9.9 £2O/2/1
12 months, June, 1938.. £l7/10/- 1/9.1 £l6/15/1
12 months, June, 1939.. £l4/19/6 1/9.4 £l4/0/3
Actually the drop in last year’s prices
meant a reduction of approximately
£114,000 in the co.’s profit from metals.
But about £86,000 of this was offset by
the higher grade of ore treated, lower
mining and milling costs, and reduced
smelting and realisation charges. No
revenue, however, was received from
realisation of accumulated stocks of lead
and silver, sales of which helped to swell
takings for several years previously.
After making another donation of
£12,500 towards the new hospital at the
Barrier and providing for taxes and
royalty, the profit from mining was
£52,078 lighter at 28 p.c. on capital.
There, was little change in the hand-
some contribution from investments,
which was another 15.7 p.c. on capital:
Net profit— 1937. 1938. 1939'.
Mining .. .. £664,803 £276,159 £224.081
Investments . . . . 103,513 126,342 125,926
£768,316 £402,501 £350,007
The difference between the £350,007
(down £52,494) of profit claimed and the
£383,138 shown in the introductory table
represents allowance for depreciation
(£33,000), a loss of £4431 sustained on
investments and minor reserve adjust-
ments. The £383,138 was 47.9 p.c. on
capital, compared with 54.6, 100.4, 64.9,
44.4 and 32.6 p.c. back to 1934. The div.
was reduced from 80 p.c. to 40 p.c.,
and two quarterly distributions since the
close of accounts have been at the lower
rate.
Although 5215 fewer tons of sulphides
was treated, they contained a bit more
lead, silver and zinc:
Crudes • Assay *
Treated, f Lead. Silver. Zinc.
1937.. 369,790 tons 13.8 p.c. 5.10 z. 11.1 p.c.
1938.. 382,465 tons 14.5 ~ 6.00 z. 12.2 „
1939.. 377,250 tons 15 ~ 6.20 z. 12.6 ~
t Sulphides.
Over 60 p.c. of last year’s tonnage came
from below the 1170 ft. level. In
addition, 5869 tons of crude oxides
(33.2 p.c. lead) was sent direct to the
smelters at Pirie.
The next table shows the metal con-
tents of the lead and zinc concentrates
and the percentage of recovery:—-
Lead. Silver. Zinc,
j 31,063 tons. 1,015,6940 z. 34,176 tons.
iyzo 87.1 p.c. 78.5 p.c. 75.4 p.c.
1935 1 53,465 tons. 2,297,9690 z. 41,840 tons.
I 95.4 p.c. 90.6 p.c. 87.7 p.c.
iQ,. j 50,296 tons. 1,899,3320 z. 37,524 tons.
iydL> 1 94.9 p.c. 89.2 p.c. 86.5 p.c.
_ ) 48,678 tons. 1.693,1150 z. 35,587 tons.
1 95.3 p.c. 89.2 p.c. 86.6 p.c.
, qqo j 53,071 tons. 2,053,7480 z. 41,074 tons.
° ) 95.5 p.c. 90.1 p.c. 88.0 p.c.
iqoq ( 54,007 tons. 2,125,4350 z. 41,890 tons.
1 95.6 p.c. 91.0 p.c. 88.3 p.c.
The continued improvement in re-
coveries—they are the best yet and very
marked compared with 1925 figures—is
a feather in the cap of the metallurgical
staff.
The richer ore, better recoveries, lower
smelting costs and smaller lead bonus
(average for the year was approximately
Bs. as against about 18s. for the previous
term) are reflected in lower mining and
treatment costs:
1925. 1938. 1939.
Crudes raised). .257,879 tons 382,926 tons 376,856 tons
Extraction . . 275. 6.5 d. 225. 5.6 d. 21s. 4.8 d.
Development . . 2s. 5-Od. 3s. 3.5 d. 3s. 4.8 d.
Treatment . . 13s. 11.5 d. ss. 11. Id. ss. 3.7 d.
Cost per ton 435. 11.Od. 31s. 8.2 d. 30s. 1.3 d.
t Sulphides.
The reduction in total costs was Is. 6.9 d.
per ton. A strengthening of the figure
can be looked for during the current
term, owing to the upward trend of wages
and of the price of mining stores and
materials.
Developed ore reserves are conserva-
tively estimated at 2,600,000 tons. There
is thus about seven years’ work measured
up, but the estimate excludes ore dis-
closed by diamond drilling only, ore
incompletely developed and all ore below
the 1480 ft. level. The main shaft (No.
7) is down 2065 ft., and is still being
deepened. The South mine may pos-
sibly live for 20 years, but if it does it
will be due to discovery of ore as yet
unknown, the chairman says.
When the books closed the mine
figured at £83,694, and plant, etc.,
£1,282,042. More or less liquids, includ-
ing shares in other cos., exceeded out-
side liabilities and provision therefor by
£1,568,804, equal to 9s. 9d. per share.
Shareholdings include an interest in Com-
monwealth Aircraft Corp., which will
presently be turning out six planes—
Wirraways—per week. The Wirraway
is a second-line combat machine which,
in its class, ranks with the world’s best.
The smelters at Pirie have contracted
to sell to the British Government for
the duration of the war and three months
thereafter 13,875 tons of lead per calen-
dar month, f.o.b. Pirie, at £AIB 16s. 7d.
per ton, or a couple of shillings above
last year’s average market price. The
contract price is subject to adjustments
at half-yearly intervals, according to
specified rises or falls in production costs.
The buyer has the option to terminate
the contract when deliveries aggregate
166,000 tons, which is equal to 12
months’ deliveries at the agreed monthly
rate. With 2000 tons of lead per month
being sold to Australian consumers, the
agreement means that full normal pro-
duction at the Barrier will be marketed
at a profitable price. Sale of zinc con-
centrates is also assured, thanks to the
Electrolytic Co.’s somewhat similar con-
tract with the Imperial Government —
most of the zinc concentrates from the
Barrier are bought by the Electrolytic
Co. As for the long-term view of lead-
zinc mining, world production and con-
sumption of these metals are now about
50 p.c. greater than in 1913, and few
discoveries of fresh deposits have been
made.
Since the beginning of 1939 the co.’s
ss. shares have fluctuated between
31s. 3d. and 235. 6d. on the market.
At the current quote of 275. 3d., the
return is 7.3 p.c. on a 40 p.c. div. basis.
Allowing for surplus liquids at June 30
last, the investor at 275. 3d. who looks
for his money back plus 6 p.c. p.a.
counts on divs. averaging 50 p.c. over
the next 20 years.
Felt and Textiles of Australia
, Divs. , Towards
Net Pref. Re- De-
June, Profit.* 6 p.c. Ord. serves, flcit.f
1937 54,894 2400 10 p.c. =- 21,410 \ 24 286 28)50 5
Underwriting exes., £6799 .. j
Added goodwill, etc., £11,954 .. .. 40,459
Reserves new subsidiaries, £3301 .. 37,1.18
Unexplained addition, £1419 .. 35,739
1938.. 60,376 2400 10 p.c. = 47,464 10,512 25,227
Added goodwill, £1205 .. .. •• 26,432
Net additions reserves, £6616 .. • • 19,816
Reserves.
1939. . 94,184 5983 10 p.c. = 57,899 ( 9 o r, 91 q - )0 5
Share-fissue exes., £6981 .. f 2 3,jU °
* After deducting outside shareholders’ interest,
f After deducting goodwill, now £212,711.
Formed in 1921, this co. is the centre
of a group of self-supporting and com-
plementary industries in Australia, Maori-
land and S. Africa. Its three main spheres
of activity are felt piece-goods and carpet
manufacture, the wool subsidiaries and he
footwear factories. All phases of pro-
duction, from treatment of raw materials
to output of the finished article, are
undertaken, and, judged on the figures,
there appears to be nothing wrong with
either the quality of the products or the
control. The public became interested
in 1937, and the business has expanded
very rapidly since, by absorptions and
otherwise. From the end of 1936 to
June 30 last paid capital advanced from
£119,930 to £831,914. Of the increase
of £711,984, the public put up £488,927,
bonus scrip accounted for £135,500, and
the balance was issued mainly in connec-
tion with the purchase of subsidiary
interests.
Here are the combined balance-sheet
figures of the parent, its subsidiaries and
sub-subsidiaries:
1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. .. £119,930 £600,035 £831,914
Outside interests . . 1,000 3,100 175
Overdraft . . . . 110,984 295,182 226,063
Sundry creditors, etc. . . 194,396 171,141 219,373
Freeholds . . . . 82,017 171,273 234,384
Plant 149,068 288,102 344,428
Shares other cos. .. —8,849 21,599 18,852
Stock 133,269 400,106 480,508
Debtors 124,846 171,358 205,336
Cash, etc 3,649 19,528 30,440
Last term paid capital increased by
£231,879, of which £200,000 was fresh
pref. money, carrying a cumulative 6 p.c.,
10,663 f.-p. ords. were issued in exchange
for outside interests in some of the pups,
and the other £21,216 represented the
balance on a new issue made in the
previous term. The new capital, together
with surplus earnings, including the
allowance for depreciation (£29,647), and
£48,232 added to the amount coming to
sundry creditors, enabled £63,111 to be
added to freeholds, £56,326 to plant,
£80,402 to stocks, £33,978 to debtors’
balances and £10,912 to cash, etc. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£270,848) was £146,179.
There has thus been all-round expan-
sion of the business, and profitable em-
ployment was quickly found for the neAV
money, too. Declared net earnings of the
group were £33,808 better at £94,184,
which was enough to meet pref. require-
ments and show 15.2 p.c. on average ord.
capital, as against 12.2 p.c. for the previ-
ous term. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing the cost of the new share-issue (£6981),
an unexplained addition of £6616 net
to reserves and £1205 added to goodvvi 1,
etc. (£212,712), not treated as an asset
herein. The div. was kept at 10 p.c., and
the £23,321 that remained the tan-
gible support for capital to £3505. Halt
the ord. div. came from sources outside
Australia, and is therefore exempt from
Commonwealth and State income tax.
But it will probably not always be pos-
sible to pay half the ord. div. from ex-
Australian sources, the chairman says.
Economic and fiscal developments and
war have provided the co. with fresh
opportunities in Maoriland, where a lot
of new plant for manufacture of addi-
tional lines, including all types of felt and
plain and stippled-body carpets, has been
installed. Here is a list of the parent’s
subsidiaries: —
| | Parent’s
Company. I Activities. I Intel est.
Federal Felters I Woollen- a n d
(Melbourne) I hair-felt 100 p.c.
N.Z. Slippers I Slippers, shoes,
(Wellington) I hair products 100' p.c.
S. African Slippers I S'lippers and
(Durban) I shoes 100 p.c.
Botany Wools i AVool carbon—
(Sydney) I isers, etc. 100 p.c.
Pacific Wools ! AVool carbon—
(Melbourne) I isers, etc. | 100 p.c.t
Felt Industries I Slippers and
(S. Africa) | shoes ! 100 p.cft
Jas. Seymour and Co. I
(Melbourne) AVool tops | 100 p.c.t
Baldwin and Grant 1
(Melbourne) Carpets, etc. | 100 p.c.t
Australian Hair Treaters o f
(Syd., Melb., Bris.) . hair 50 p.c.
J. Grant and Co. Flock and
(Maoriland) I AVaddings, etc. 100 p.c.
Cotton Dressings 1 Cotton-w o o 1
(Melbourne) and waddings 25 p.c.t
People’s Slipper
(Sydney) Slippers 100 p.c.
tola lithe Slipper
(Sydney) Slippers 100 p.c.
Myrl Shoe Co.
(Melbourne) Slippers 100 p.c.
Australian Slippers
(Sydney) Slippers 100 p.c.
Dalcer Slipper Co.
(Melbourne) Slippers 100 p.c.
AVellington Slipper Co. Shoes and
(AVellington) slippers 100 p.c.
Myrl Shoe Co. Slippers and
(Auckland) | leather goods 100 p.c.
* All the ords. and therefore control. f Held by
S. African Slippers, t Held by Federal Felters.
Taken together, the wool subsidiaries are
the largest consumer of the staple in Aus-
tralia. The S. African offshoot has a
growing market, especially for absorbent
cotton-wool, and exchange is in the
nature of a windfall for the parent. All
other sections of the organisation are re-
ported to be doing well.
What the future holds for the business
nobody can say definitely. The Great
War of 1914-18 provided Australian in-
dustries with many opportunities for ex-
pansion. If the present war should be
prolonged history might repeat itself, but
to a lesser degree in Australia than in
Maoriland, and with less opportunity for
making luscious profits.
At 23s. 6d. and 21s. 4d. the first and
second prefs. return 5.1 p.c. and 5.6 p.c.
respectively. The ords. at 36s. yield
5.5 p.c. The net tangible backing is
£20 17s. 8d. firsts, £3 19s. 4d. seconds
and 20s. Id. ords.
J. Fielding and Co. (Sydney)
Towards
Net Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.-41,050 15 p.c. = 22,425 18,625 122,362
AVritten off investments, etc., £14,000.. 108,362
1930.. 15 p.c.= 22,425 599 108,961
AVritten off investments, £5000 .. 103,961
1931.. 16.180 10 p.c.=14,950 1,230 105,191
1932.. 39.684 15 ,,,, 22,600 17,084 122,275
1933.. 32.496 15 ,,,,27,000 5,496 127,771
1934.. 46.153 15 ,,,,27,000 19,153 146,924
Reserves capitalised, £18,000 .. 128,924
1935.. 49.425 15 p.c. = 30,000 19,425 148,349
1936.. 48.269 15 „ ,,30,000 18,269 166,618
Reserves disappear. £1000 .. .. 165,618
1937. 18J p.c.=37,968 15,012 180,630
Assets revalued, £75,000 .. .. 255,630
Reserves capitalised, 29,214 .. .. 226,416
1938. 15 p.c. = 35,057 19,644 246,060
1939.. 56.136 15 „ ,,35,222 20,914 266,974
The table explains why the market has
always had a high opinion of the scrip


sdf
■
ENDURA
Pens-Pencils-Sets
A Gift which Sustains
Admiration Beyond
the First Week
All Christmas Gifts are
appreciated, though, in the
inevitable order of things,
some are more highly
prized than others. Conk-
lin “Endura” Fountain
Pens and Pencils are in
the latter category.
To the gladness which its
first appearance brings is
added a respect which be-
comes more and more
deep-rooted with the pass-
ing years.
“Endura” Pens and Pencils
will prove steadfast, and
their colours are in-
triguingly beautiful not
just showy. Last, but
most important, every
Conklin “Endura” Pen or
Pencil is unconditionally
and perpetually guaranteed
against breakages and acci-
dents of any kind.
The Pens are priced at
30/- and 40/-. Pencils
to match, 25/-. Com-
plete Sets in Presentation
Cases, 55/- and 65/-.
Available from all Stationers,
Jewellers and Departmental
Stores everywhere.
The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
lIEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney.
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 362-66 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Life Assurance, including:
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Frobate,
Non-Profit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write jor full particulars to
A. L. HARRIS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
//AA
'W/M.
'A
f
,
! ®
pqi Suijq suibjj *ji aas noX qaiqM
qjiM ijojuioo puB asB9 aqi Aq pajqnop
si aas noX jm[m jo ajussajd aqj 4 sXbm
qiBJ ujapoui-Bjjjn s 4 Boijaray oj squsqj^
•saiji|Bajt §uiuqaqM.iaAO
‘Boijaray ui jnq ‘sp.ioM XpuBq Xjajaiu jou
9jb XiapBA ‘jojoo -uBSiqoxjy
jo spMaf aqsj aqj pus aapunqi
01 jjads SuiqjBajq b mq ajB suibjj
aqj puy - j[0|oo jo ssXqB ub
aqi jo aqj • • * aauBipBJ Suoain
■raiqs si qBjjq ui auojq£ 1 B9J 0 8 HX
•sqidap dijsb jub j o j qj.iB9 aq j sqjds ‘ujiu ui
aqi • • • ajiUBaS paaBj-jaaqs
jo jsruqj qSiq-apui b qjtAi jib aqj sjqds
ajiruasoy at aiuoQ jjbjj 'SjapuoAV aiuaas
s t Baijaray pauoiqsBj aqs uaqM — apiSB
luapaoajd passoi pub —aiiaied isantii
‘ssuvf —puojSug oj sn[i fo sjwjap jjnj
•avojjoj jBqj sjajdsqo Xb§ aqj oj xapui
8lIIJUBq9U9 UB • • • IIBMBJJ ‘BOUIBg ‘iflj
‘puBjBaz ’BDuaray oj uoijonpojjut
Suiqijqj inoX si ‘Jldj.anioffl jo
aqj ‘jauq uosjBjy jjtavs b uo
oj SB9g qjnog jqSijq aqj qSnojqj 9§b2oa
B P"8I Jtlo A aqj puB ‘Suijsa
-jajui isoui aqj ‘paijBA jsotn aqj si jj
•puBjSug oj ajnoj-jnouiBjS jnoX si siqj[
•ajBjapora jsoui ajB "qsiAV jnoA
oj Xpjijua [9abjj pjoui oj noX ajqBua
sajnoj jo aoioqo pus saSajtAtid jaAodojs
•sjiBJ-uo-aiuoq Jnoi jo Xuora
-jBq qjoouis aqj oj sauojjaAO snoijnxrq
puaj sjuarnjuxoddB ssapqriBj pus aaiAjas
aAljuajjB XpjBins ‘auisma ssajqajBui * • *
daajs jnjjsaj ojui noX j[iq sqjjaq uBuqjnj
• • ■ pawotjipi/oo-JM) si *qoB9i
XsB9 IIllIJIAi UOIJDBJJJB Xj9A9 9DBjd * * *
A *h
E
A
If n '»s
Hut,
s ’> 4th
x \a>
; Vl
T,
(In
<>n
*V, ll'
Mi
atti.
'» Pi
■'l.
L>»
Co?
* : -*v
Mp,
9oe,
s yd u
\]\y
ey
//, bj
of this energetic and now stoutly-ribbed
manufacturer of cardboard boxes,
cartons and corrugated-fibre containers,
etc. Further, investors have not been
disappointed in their expectations, though
conditions at the moment suggest that
they may have to wait for future
benefits. Since the beginning of 1939
the pound shares have fluctuated be-
tween 83s. 6d. and 735. on the market.
Around 83s. 6d. present return is 3.6
p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis. Visibly
the cover is 425. 7d. in net
tangibles. The investor at 83s. 6d. who
looks for between 5 p.c. and 4J p.c. on
his money counts on a 20 p.c. distri-
bution or a one-for-three gift issue and
maintenance of the div. at 15 p.c., which
would then still call for £8954 less profit
than was shown last term.
It was the Great War of 1914-18, which
gave the co. the protection that the
politicians failed to provide, that enabled
the business to get both its feet firmly
on the ground. Before that it was largely
a struggle against prejudice ; since, the
story has been one of continued progress,
and recent experience in the U.S.A. and
Britain suggests that there is still ample
room for further expansion of the in-
dustry here. And again war might give
the industry much-needed protection;
this time against the dumping of wood
shooks from overseas. These shooks are
really waste timber, largely from
Canadian mills, cut to sizes for assembly
into cases, and they come into the
country under a by-law which provides
for refund of duty when re-exported.
Only once in the last dozen years has
the dividend rate fallen below 15 p.c.
p.a.; that was in 1931, when 10 p.c.
was distributed. Also, over half the
capital is bonus scrip—the last gift, one
for seven, was handed out a couple of
years ago —thus making dividends worth
more than twice the declared rate on
old holdings. Much of the co.’s success
has been due to the fact that plant, the
chief earning asset, has been kept
abreast of every modern development,
which has meant much so far as costs
are concerned. Further, substantial
allowance has been made for deprecia-
tion, enabling a lot of equipment to be
paid for out of earnings, and then from
the same source severely written down
The allowance for depreciation last term
(£20,409, down £8721) was equal to 80
p.c. of the book value of plant, etc.,
at the end of Sept., or over 11 p.c. on
the book value of freeholds and plant
combined. At that rate the two items
would be entirely written out of the
accounts in less than 10 years.
The year’s declared net earnings were
£1435 stronger at 23.9 p.c. on capital
as against 23.4 p.c. for the previous
term. The div. was kept at 15 p.c., and,
despite rising costs, looks like remaining
there.
More than half the co.’s funds is
represented by well-selected share-
holdings, worth more than their book
value, and by well-let Sydney freeholds,
bought when property prices were low.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1919. 1930. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £40,000 £149,500 £233,714 £235,913
Creditors .. 51,982 17,531 35,161* 63,643*
Freeholds .. 31,324 42,046 128,934 163,639
Plant, etc. .. 21,230 33,606 25,976 25,532
Stocks .. 42,416 26,434 33,524 33,070
Book debts, cash ~,
and investm’ts 19,778 185,119 335,265 352,630
* Including provision for taxation.
Outstanding features last term were the
additions of £24,705 to freeholds and
£17,370 to book debts, cash and invest-
ments (an untidy entry). Owing to the
outlay on property, there was a shrink-
age of £1066 in the very comfortable
more or less liquid surplus (£332,562).
Investments include a subsidiary in Mel-
bourne, which set up in 1923, and a
factory in Tasmania, which began about
11 years ago.
Brisbane Permanent Building
Dividends and To Re-
Ausr Profit Dividend Tax. serves. Reserves.
£’£ £ £
1929 47 720 10 p.c. = 39,909 7,811 122,435
1930*.’. 49’,737 10 „ „ 40,000 9,737 132,172
1931.. 35,383 7„ „ 28,000 | 4 383 136 555
Contingency reserve, £3OOO )
Q’land Deposit Bank absorbed on share-
for-share basis; reserves written off.
Loss on Govt, stocks, £17,300 .. 119,255
1932.. 30,083 5 p.c. - 27,359 2,724 121,979
1933.. 35,890 4„ „ 27,042 ? Q g 4B 127,827
Contingency reserve, £3OOO )
Surplus on sale property, £16,250.. 144,077
From tax reserve, £lO,OOO .. .. 154,077
1934.. 38,799 4 p.c. = 27,304 11,495 165,572
Unexplained reduction, £5713 . . 159,859
1935.. 48,079 44 p.c. = 30,717 17,362 177,221
1936.. 48,998 5„ „ 34,457 14,541 191,762
1937.. 51,916 5„ „ 37,345 14,571 206,333
1938.. 54,823 5„ „ 37,500 17,323 223,656
To contingencies, £7500 .. • • 216,156
1939.. 52,426 5 p.c. = 37,500 14,926 231,082
“There is nothing in the internal posi-
tion of the co. to justify the recent fall in
the price of its shares,” said the chairman
at the last annual roll-up of shareholders.
A year ago the market priced the pound
shares, covered by net tangibles with a
(Continued on next page.)


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
M438 - 86371.
ARE YOU GETTING CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
AUSTRALIAN ABBOT
GUTHRID6E
GEORGE ST
CAMPEROOWN
Cylinder
F I
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of all descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, Ice Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
6i\
KING THE ROAD”
BrnTBRIH
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith. Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
ORES—Try 0. T. LEMPRIERE & CO. PTY.,
LTD., Collins House, Melbourne, when selling Ores,
Metals, Scrap, or buying Refined Tin, Antimony,
Solders. Type Metals, Bearing Metals and other
Alloys.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collisnn and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
"Lift me over,
please, Daddyl”
|T may be only a three-rail fence now,
1 but when the boy comes to 17 the
problem may be one of money to send
him to the University. Later it may be
money to set himself up in business or
to pay a deposit on a home. Lift him
over! Start building up a Fund for him
now. You will never miss the few
shillings a month in premiums.
An A.M.P. policy for £250, payable when
the boy is 16, or 21, or 25, is within the
means of most fathers.
Ask that a copy of a new book, “Peace
of Mind,” be sent to you. It may help
you to a peace of. mind you have never
known. Write for it today.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
. in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
TO BE CAREFREE
ABOUT CAPITAL. .
Follow the hundreds who have
invested small and large sums in
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
Custodian Trustees for investors:
U nion Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SyDNEy
TELEPHONE: B 5294
book value of 265. 2d., at 21s. 3d. In
September last the figure had fallen to
20s. 6d. ; it is now 195., at which the
return is 5.2 p.c. on a 5 p.c. div. basis.
The doubt is not so much as to whether
assets will ultimately turn out to be worth
20s. in the pound, but whether the co.’s
earning capacity will be able to keep pace
with rising costs and hardening interest
rates.
Originally incorporated in 1874 as the
first building society in Queensland, the
co. now does a large general banking
business as well. For the seven years to
the close of accounts in 1930 shareholders
averaged a shade under 10 p.c. Then
came the big change in conditions, and
the co. absorbed the Queensland Deposit
Bank and took over portion of the assets
of the suspended Federal, and the div.
dropped to 4-p.c. in 1933. The rate was
lifted to 5 p.c. for the last half of the
1935 term, and has remained steady since,
the average over the last nine years being
a shade under 5 p.c.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, there was a slight shrink-
age of £95 in gross earnings (£132,975).
Exes. (£60,549) were up £2302, owing to
the lift in wages and other charges.
After allowing an unchanged £20,000 for
taxation, the net result (down £2397)
was 7 p.c. on capital as against
7.3, 6.9, 7.1, 7.1, 5.6, 5.3, 5.4, 8.8 and
12.4 p.c. back to 1930.
Last term the co. put out £306,093 on
building-society terms, besides making
considerable advances under other terms.
But repayments reduced the net growth in
advances to £2994, while deposits, etc.,
mostly interest-bearing, increased by
£61,348 and public securities and cash by
£80,239. When the books closed liquids
amounted to 45.6 p.c. of liabilities to the
public as against 36.6 p.c. three years
earlier, and the co. was holding 30s. Bd.
of the public’s money for every pound
of its own:
„ . 1931. 1935. 1938. 1939.
Paid
capital £400,000 £,682,600 £750,000 £750,000
Deposits 901,842 ]
Sundry r 1,541,940 1,443,931 1,505,279
creditors 9,093 j
Premises,
etc. .. 26,500 52,260 56,659 50.862
Advances 1,092,323 1,755,147 1,790,901 1,793,895
Public
securities
and cash 354,467 634,846 606,571 686,810
It is a strong position, but it means low
earning power until employment can be
found for more of the funds. A revalua-
tion of properties in possession is said to
have disclosed inner reserves more than
adequate to cover any likely losses on
realisation. The co. confines its lending
mainly to the metropolitan area.
Bulolo, the big New Guinea concern
30p.c.-owned by Placer Development,
shows net earnings $420,622 higher at
$3,551,452 for the 12 months to May 31 ;
that was after allowing the usual
$322,634 for depreciation and amortisa-
tion. Div. is maintained at 60 p.c.
($3,000,000), and interim for the current,
term is at the same rate; with a seventh
(deep-digging) unit contributing to earn-
ings since the close of accounts and an
eighth plant to set in at an early date,
better may not be far off. The table
shows the rapid spread of the organisa-
tion since the beginning:
Gold, Costs,
Year, Treated, Gold, Silver, Gr., Cents,
May, C.y. Oz. Oz. C.y.* C.y.J
1932 f .. 558,800 6,891 3,541 5.95
1935 .. 9,920,700 127,901 56,653 6.23 10.87
1938 . . 11,222,000 134,715 58,891 5.79' 12.03
1939 .. 14,688,000 158,970 67,939 5.22 11.72
silver values converted into gold.
t Two months. t Including gold royalty.
Altogether 69,728,100 c.y. had been dug
to May 31 ; there was then a further
182,000,000 c.y. (down 10,000,000 c.y.)
awaiting dredging and 20,000,000 c.y. to
be hydraulicked. Treatment of the latter
has been deferred until a new 2800-h.p.
hydro-electric plant is on the job.
Accounts show fixed assets at
$13,305,171 ; more or less liquids figured
at $4,873,559, or $3,817,595 more than
the amount coming to outsiders.
* * * *
Sunshine Gold Development, New
Guinea, has bought from Bulolo
Dredging 40 acres of “payable” wash
adjoining its main workings; the ac-
quisition adds a million c.y. to sluicing
reserves, and will involve no capital out-
lay to handle. For the year to Sept. 30
the co. shows net earnings £1969 lower
at £11,142 (Is. Id. per share); share-
holders got 6d. a share, and £7OOO appro-
priated for depreciation went mainly in:o
additional plant, etc., on the Consolidated
claims, where a long-range development
policy has been put into operation to
increase output and reduce working costs
—7.72 d. a yard last term, as against
11.63 d. in’3B. Of the 309,087 c.y. treated,
130,758 c.y. was overburden. A new
pipeline across the Watut will facilitate
treatment of the Terrace ground and
provide an alternative pressure line when
the Reidy Creek race is completed. Last
year’s development is reflected in in-
creased monthly gold yields for the
current term; further improvement is
expected, with an early return to the
div. list. At Sept. 30 more or less liquids
covered a debt of £4Bll with £604 to
spare.
* * * *
The Swedenborg, at Charters Towers
(N.Q.), mentioned on this page last week,
is withdrawing rails and pipes from the
workings. It looks like its swan-song.
* * * *
Values from the Grasstree mine, Sarina
(C.Q.), have fallen to 16dwt. a ton. At
a total value of £8 10s. a ton, minus
treatment costs at Chillagoe—the co. has
not yet built its own plant—there doesn’t
seem much likelihood of further divs. at
present. A year ago the mine had one
of the best records in Queensland,
good-sized, regular crushings ranging
from 25dwt. to 2oz. per ton. Sarina is
the seat of the power-alcohol industry in
Queensland, and some enthusiasts have
been seeing in the Grasstree, which is
big, a pup out of Mt. Morgan.
* * * *
Progress of the baby gold industry in
the Cloncurry copper region (N.Q.) will
not gladden the hearts of geophysicists
yet awhile. There is ore aplenty—of a
type —in the Soldiers’ Cap area, but the
last 46 tons of Freda ore returned only
2£dwt. per ton, and the tails aren’t likely
to add greatly to values. In the Gilded
Rose area prospectors’ crushings over the
last month or two have been under
lOdwt. per ton. It will be hard to man
the claims at these figures, more especi-
ally while there are enticing copper
shows near by. Some of the latter are
yielding 10 p.c. to 25 p.c. ore, and with
electrolytic at £63 Australian are doing
well.
* * * *
It looks as if the Mary River at Gympie
(Q.) will at last be dredged during
1940 or later. There has been much
speculation and tentative efforts at re-
covery of the gold that is supposed to
have been washed in from the rich
Monkland area. A grab-bucket dredge is
being constructed, and other preliminary
work is well advanced.
* * * «
A proposal to test the gold reefs on
the Etheridge (N.Q.) by diamond-drilling
has been turned down flat by the Govern-
ment. It suggests a new technique for
proving ore in narrow reefs below the
oxidised ore, most of which has already
been taken out. It involved no financial
risk to the proposers, but is hardly one
that private cos. would face equably, hav-
ing regard to the type of deposit con-
cerned. For all that, Georgetown and
Forsayth have had many good individual
performers, some of which still pay toll
to Chillagoe because the ore is hard to
treat in an ordinary battery.
* * * *
Proposed liquidation of Lake View
South (G.M.K.), Ltd., formed March,
1935, comes as a shock. Six months ago
it was said that proved and probable ore
was equal to nearly three years’ mill-
feed, and that the output was being
steadily pushed up. Now it is announced
that development and exploration indi-
cate little probability of any further con-
siderable extension of pay-ore. Ore in
sight, however, is to be taken out Lon-
don-controlled Gold Mines or Kal-
goorlie, Ltd., holds all but 80,000 (issued
to the vendors) of the 240,000 ss. shares
out.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
A.J.E.: An average investment only; you
could do a lot better. (2) Wouldn’t care to
say what might happen in the long run, but
immediate prospects are far from bright....
JJ.: First-named appears the better buying,
though the immediate yield is 6.1 p.c. as
against 7.7 p.c. Both issues are fully paid.
Queensland Insurance and W. R. Carpenter
are worth consideration.


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from 11/
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water:
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Managpr.
Telephone: 8W1531.
Telegrams:
‘Grancentral,” Sydney.
Tf g
r -l
nr
1
M
e:
SMOKE-OH!
“Four ways to beat your wife.” — “D.T.”
None of them verbal.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Jockey croons to his mount during race.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Clearly a case for the R.S.P.C.A.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“What is it that makes a man suddenly want
to kiss a girl?”— Women’s mag.
The girl.
•J* *!•
“Goat farm latest outback industry. It
will supply kid skin to glove manufacturers.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
“Australia to lose N.Z. chewing-gum trade.”
—Melbourne “Sun.”
Wouldn’t it be better for the Dominions
to stick together?
“Melbourne man has recited ‘The Shanty
on the Rise’ 1300 times.”
—Melbourne Herald.
It’s about time some of his audience
took the hint and shouted him a drink.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Lubricating oil for national broadcasting
service.” — “S.M.H.” ad. for P.M.G. tenders.
To stop fed-up listeners from squeak-
ing?
•X* A A A
“There are women in Hollywood
who can condense a 100,000-word
novel into half a dozen sheets of
script.” — Film mag.
And there are those here who
can sum up half an hour’s dis-
cussion in one word: “No!”
4* 4* 4* 4*
Then there was the newly-married
mechanic who spent a quarter of an hour
each morning scraping the carbon off
the toast.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Dresses from Cow’s Milk. — Heading.
But would they be water-proot?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Every girl who stays married in Hollywood
is smart.” — Film guff.
Yet, paradoxically, old-fashioned.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“London’s black-outs have originated a new
series of dances that are performed in the dark.
They are sure to be popular with everyone.”
—Dance news.
What about the electric-light com-
panies?
Lumber.
“Canberra is tree-conscious.”— Article.
Nothing strange in that, seeing that
the politicians are never out of the woods,
and that all Government departments
have branches there. Taxpayers are a
lot of poor saps if they don’t twig the
real root of their troubles, which is that
politicians refuse to lop anything off their
salaries, despite that when they are on
the stump they bark a lot about “cutting
down expenses” being a plank in their
party’s platform.
4* HE* 4* 4*
“When I got home and mother came running
out of the house, she cried. I cried. Dad
cried. We all cried, neighbors and everybody.
I felt like the Prodigal Son.” — “D.T.”
Sure, a big calf and plenty of bellow-
ing.
"Where'll I put 'im , boss?"
Cinder—a Hot Number.
Said Cinderella to the Witch, “Lay off
that pumpkin stuff,
And just forget that coach of glass—
the springs are too damn’ rough.
A Super Straight Eight’s what l want,
with cocktail-bar and all;
And Paris will supply the frock I’m wear-
ing to the ball.
This kitchen I’ll not leave for any ball-
room, that I swear,
Unless the gossip-hounds with candid
cameras are there.
“Prince Charming and the slipper ! Why,
that bunkum makes me squirm —
I want a swing-band leader, and his hair
must have a perm.
Now beat it! I must ring the Fitsu Shoe
Store mob and say
I’ll do their session on the air for twenty
quid a day.”
D. McM.
She was a frisky city kid,
With every chance to gloat.
And of her brand-new gloves she said,
“These came from some young goat!”
ELM.
Powerful Acting.
“The Sydney City Council players possess
considerable dramatic talent.” — “Telegraph.”
A play of current interest will be
eagerly awaited by thousands of elec-
tricity fans. If the players are as highly
rated as city properties, they’re not bad.
How about a heroine named Diana Mo
“But there's no strings in your racquet.”
“ What strings?”
sitting in her garden surrounded by beau-
tiful power plants? Diana Mo is swiftly
revolving in her mind a scheme to out-
wit her cruel guardian, old Judge Mo,
who is away on short circuit.
The Construction Branch could furnish
the villain, Con Duit. What fun he could
have upsetting the plans of a hero from
the Architect’s Office. This chap, of
course, would be very upright in strict
accordance with electric-light standards.
A surprise ending could be introduced
by having Diano Mo swept off her feet
by the polished manners of the boss of
the Cleaning Department. It would be
no trouble for him to throw dust in the
eyes of old Judge Mo and his rivals.
What a grand finale! As the happy
couple leave the church beneath an arch
of brooms held up by council employees
at overtime rates, the Chairman of
County Council could rush in ana
dramatically announce a reduction in
electric-light charges. Of course, he
would be only acting.
D. McM.
The Inconceivable.
You may be huge or stunted like a
midget,
Wise as a sage or silly as a rabbit.
You may shut up or yap, sit still or fidget,
Of violent argument may make a habit.
You may be meek Or valiant or craven,
Excessive vanity mayhap you harbor.
But this, I’ll bet: when you get shorn
or shaven
You cannot hold your head to suit your
barber !
P. O. M. C.
Around the Army.
IV.
The Sergeant-Major.
‘‘More in sorrow than in anger”
Won’t apply to this haranguer
As he contemplates the troops he’s
trying to drill.
Any sorrow he expresses
(Of course later in the mess) is
For himself. No lah-di-dah or fancy
frill
His parade-ground speeches garnish ;
Aussie, plain and lacking varnish
Is hurled abroad so all may hear and
heed.
And when he’s finished toiling
And his vocal chords need oiling,
Well —the sergeants’ mess is there against
the need.
Before a man may attain the exalted
rank of sergeant-major he must possess
several qualifications. The most im-
portant is a minimum chest expansion of
seven inches. This is so that when he
winds himself up and lets himself go
in earnest he can in one breath cover
something like this:
“Para-a-a-ade, halt! Didn’t you hear
me say halt you swivel-eyed quarter-
wit you I’m talking to that ape second
from the end in the front rank whad-
dayer think you’re doing taking your tart
for a walk or something snap into it
or you’ll find yourself doing fatigue on
the end of a banjo and what are all you
other idiots grinning for you’re little better
yourselves I could get a crowd of school-
kids to drill a damn’ sight better than
you bunch of awkward slop-chested nin-
compoops now then qui-i-ick march pick
’em up pick ’em up!”
Sergeant-majors are born, not made,
though why they are born is often a
profound mystery to the troops. The
brassy voice, however, is usually a
gradual acquisition, and the blare that
reverberates deafeningly around the
parade . g round is the result of long ap-
prentjcesbjp. They start off by getting
ractice talking to each other when they
can t c j ose tQ a riveting-machine in
action . later they round t hi s off by trying
tQ t a word in edgeways w hen they are
at home
-phe r s.M. of a unit that is already
full tra i ned ' holds down the army’s
cushiest j ob . Provided the guard doesn’t
g£t sbot _if j t does he confiscates the
bottles—or too many fail to turn up for
morning jerks, he leads a placid exist-
ence, the only things likely to bring a
wrinl*. to his brow being a
puttee or an unshaven mug When the
O.C.’s inspection is due. He has one
abiding fear—that comparative disuse
may so atrophy his voice that Tie. won’t
be able to make it heard more than three-
quarters of a mile away.
It is when handling raw recruits that
the sar’-major becomes a headache on
two legs. Let us tune in to him as he
tries to lick some “marmalades” into
shape.
“Now, men, pay close attention to
what I have to say and you’ll have no
trouble at all. When I give the order
‘Atten-shun! ’ you wait for the ‘shun!
before bringing the heels together smartly,
toes out, chin up, chest out, eyes looking
straight ahead and ab-so-lootly no move-
ment until”
“Who’re y’ shovin’, Nobby?”
“Silence! Now when I give the order
‘Sil-awp arms, one,’ you wait for the
‘one!’ then throw the rifle straight up,
catching it so, at the same time bringing
the left arm across the chest to grasp it
like this. I don’t want you to drag the
rifle up —sling it around as if it were a
hot potato.”
“Git along, Splinter, an’ give us some
more room, can’t y’?”
Silence, there! On the command
‘Two!’ bring the rifle across to your left
shoulder, fingers grasped round the butt,
so, thumb touching the side lightly and
easily. On the command ‘Three’ ”
“Eh, Blue, how would you like a pup
out of his nibs’ mo!”
“SILENCE! Now, on the command
‘Three!’ bring the right arm smartly
down, fingers touching seam of trousers.
Now, have you got that? Well, then,
‘Squa-a-ad, Cha-her-r-rn! ’ Well, why
aren’t you springing to it, you lot of
numbskulls? Don’t you know a simple
order when you hear one? Let’s have it
again. ‘Squa-a-ad, Cha-her-r-rn!’
Well, if I ever met a bigger bunch of
boneheads I’ll hop to hell on stilts! I
ought to crime the lot of you. You in
the front there with the silly 100k —why
don’t you obey that order?”
“What order, sarge?”
“Don’t call me sarge! Address me
correctly as sargeant-major. The order
I just gave you.”
“Aw, sarge, I didn’t know what ‘cha-
her-r-r-m’ meant!”
If it weren’t that long practice has
made his blood vessels case-hardened no
S.M. could stand up to it. As it is,
officers seeing a squad summarily dis-
missed and a purple-visaged figure leap-
ing up and down always look the other
way. They know that his next move will
be in the direction of the Q.M.S.’s store,
where a few quick rums supplied by his
sympathetic fellow-n.c.o. will slowly
bring him back to sanity.
S. W. K-


ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
M
ft >4 *
!S
5 as *
H
lloatl Oftiee
Sydney, N.S.W.
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP .. ..£4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND . . . . 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL. . .. 4,739,012 10 0
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
General Manager: C. Darvall.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS-.
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd.,
Barclay’s Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices Throughout' New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ENOUGH TO BUILD A
2 ft. FENCE AROUND
AUSTRALIA
‘PCm
,«£A2saaa
tew
Of Auc^ reai ’ Cn a i- fer, Ct
USe * in r ll tan Steei nent!
I’d** J’Protfljnd
-°n lzed y°u fo* e "** Intf”
ren, a n «,
s^ggS
••fps
LYSAGHT
OR 8
tnV;
AUSTRALIA
i?r
Business, Robbery, Etc.
We All Pay For Waste
In these times of “new” methods of
finance one often hears that money
badly spent “does the rounds” just the same
as money well spent and that it is not
wasted, because it passes into someone
else’s hanas vvho able to spend it, and
so on. It is a comfortable, lazy thought
to have in mind when contemplating ill-
advised or extravagant Government out-
lay which might otherwise worry us, pro-
viding always that we have anything
remotely resembling a stake in the coun-
try to worry about.
But, like most comfortable, lazy
thoughts, it is fallacious. The money
may “do the rounds” after it is spent —
for a time—but the first waste remains
waste just the same. And waste is an
economic sin that always finds us out.
Let us assume that a Government raises
£10,000,000 at 4 p.c. and spends it on the
development of a new industrial suburb.
Assume also that private enterprise could
have done the same development on
the basis of competitive tenders for
£6,000,000. Again, assume that the whole
scheme itself is badly judged ; that twice
as much development as was necessary
to satisfy all the people who can be
coaxed into the suburb has been carried
out. Here we have a position where
industrial workers have the use of public
development costing £10,000,000, worth
£6,000,000 at ordinary labor and material
costs (at which labor rates the indus-
trial workers themselves would be paid),
but of which only £3,000,000-worth is of
use to these citizens—the enterprise being
twice as big as necessary.
The Government has to find interest
of 4 p.c. on £10,000,000 —£400,000 a year.
Since, from previous assumptions, we
reckon £3,000,000 is all that the citizens
regard the expenditure to be worth, they
will feel badly treated if rated or taxed
on the scale of much more than £120,000
a year. They will probably feel badly
treated in any case. But the tendency to
pack up and leave the district, or else
to go groaning in despair to the Arbi-
tration Court for an increase in wages
to “cover the cost of living,” will be
greatly aggravated if, directly or through
their landlords, they are charged with the
full £400,000 of interest, plus mainten-
ance, administration, sinking-fund, etc.
The community generally cannot
escape the effect of public waste and
extravagance of this kind. A sum of
£10,000,000 has been borrowed at 4 p.c.,
and the bondholders must be paid their
4 p.c. regularly and guaranteed their prin-
cipal, otherwise the Government would
be unable to borrow on such favorable
terms again. So, to raise the wherewithal
for paying such interest, levies have
to be made directly on those using the
public development work in question, or
on the community as a whole. And
taxes, whether levied on businesses or on
individuals, find their way into the cost
of living.
It can be seen that if public waste
of the kind exemplified is indulged in
repeatedly the burden in the shape of
taxes and other costs tha;t don’t increase
the amount of food a family may eat, the
amount of clothing it may wear, or that
don’t improve the housing or living con-
ditions of the family generally becomes
so heavy that something unpleasant has
to happen. The cost of living figures are
faithfully recorded by statisticians in
Australia, and, if they rise, a correspond-
ing lift in wage rates takes place almost
automatically. But these wages, nomi-
nally higher, buy no more, while they
* penalise industries that have to sell over-
seas in competition with countries that
haven’t been so wasteful of public money.
What usually happens then is that some
industries close down and put off hands.
Unemployment increases, and instead of
the unemployed getting a living wage
they are given the dole —for which addi-
tional taxes are levied on those still in
work. The cost of living goes higher,
with a tendency for the standard of living
to fall, with unemployment increasing
until readjustment takes place in the
shape of financial revolution —that is,
slump and tedious recovery —with bank-
ruptcies galore, perhaps a cutting-down of
interest rates on the Government’s bor-
rowings in order to help balance the
Budget, a depreciation of the exchange
rate to a point where the inflation caused
by waste is “written-out” of our cur-
rency, and with sacrifices by the people
all round, the unemployed included.
Some will say that the whole cause of
financial breakdowns such as the one
pictured is the result of “capitalistic
usury” ; that if interest had not to be
paid on Government borrowings to start
with this cycle of trouble that follows
excessive and wasteful expenditure would
never arise.
Certainly if bondholders cared to give
their money to the Government, theirs
would be the loss to start with, and the
ensuing train of troubles need never occur.
But people don’t rush about giving money
away. And if a Government attempts
to “raise credit” by expanding the note
issue or other fanciful means, even assum-
ing that the “credit” achieves its purpose
of carrying out some constructional work,
someone still has to pay for any waste
that takes place. Money is but a token,
and credit is only as good as the value to
human beings of the assets on which
credit is raised. When overvalued assets
form part of a nation’s credit, the
tendency is for all credit to lose value —
to inflate, in other words.
Conditions in the Australian share-
markets were quieter last week, though
the index for industrial shares in Sydney
kept above 130, thus almost maintaining
the level established in the buoyancy
that became evident a month ago.
B.H.P. was outstandingly firm at 755.,
and Australian Consolidated Industries
ords. were kept at the high level of
365. 6d., %x all recent benefits. Aus-
tralasian Paper ords. are selling at just
under 355. as the time for announce-
ment of the capital reorganisation de-
tails draws nearer, Cumberland ords.
being rather weaker than previously at
31s. 6d. Castlemaine Perkins fully-paids,
going begging at 18s. 9d. a short time
ago, changed hands at 20s. lid. last
week. Though Tooth and Toohey’s
shares were almost lifeless, Carlton, the
big Melbourne concern, was in demand at
the higher price of 665. Associated Pulp
ords., cum duty and war-time trade pro-
tection, were sought after at 255. Felt
and Textiles ords. at 365. were near
their recent highest, and Yarra Falls,
Sydney Cotton, Davies Coop and H. B.
Dickie were of the same order. Brad-
ford Cotton subsided to 48s. after a spec-
tacular rise to 51s. 3d.
There was further demand for scrip
in A. Goninan and Co., the Newcastle
steelworking concern mentioned last
week. Mort’s Dock scrip changed hands
at the high price of 17s. 3d., but General
Industries scrip was still quiet at 18s.
Retailer shares were better, Myer ords.
selling at 30s. 3d.
Electro. Zinc ords. went to 575., then
slackened ; but Barrier stocks were dull—
Norths under 455., Souths at 275., Zinc
Corps at 80s. 6d. New B.H. Consolidated
(195.) was the chief silver-lead stock of
interest. Mt. Lyell was steady to the point
of staleness at 28s. 3d. It perhaps seems
odd, but base-metal stocks in Australia,
with the possible exception of tin, are
the dullest shares on the list since war
broke out.
* * * *
Russia’s invasion of Finland had little
effect on the Australian sharemarket,
which is becoming more insular in its
outlook than of yore. That outlook, if
maintained within reasonable bounds,
should be all to the good in the long run.
New York had a fit of the blues that
grew worse as last week went on, but
the influence of Dow-Jones on Austra-
lian share prices was nil. Steadiness, with
small turnover, described the condition
of things in the Commonwealth. But a
weakening seems indicated for latei on.
The full burden of war-time taxation and
financial strain has not yet been telt.
There will be compensations for some
concerns, especially those which aren t
overcapitalised and which manufacture
essential goods, and one effect of financ-
ing the war will be inflation to a great
or small degree, thus giving commodities,
some classes of shares, etc., a greater
value in terms of money. But a good
deal of discretion is required when back-
ing theoretical forecasts by the invest-
ment or speculation of money. It is still
a good idea to sum up a concern accord-
ing to its normal trading position, to
consider the price of its shares, and then
to look for any extraordinary disadvan-
tages that may result from the war. The
extraordinary advantages that may come
should be paid for only at a substantial
discount. There is bound to be a wax-
ing and waning in the sharemarket’s esti-
mate of them as time goes on.
* * * *
The auctioneer who put Woolcott-
Forbes’s mansion at Gordon, on Syd-
ney’s North Shore line, under the ham-
mer on Nov. 24, said the residence cost
£25,000 and was set in five acres of
land that cost £14,500. That makes a
total of £39,500—n0t £50,000, £60,000
or £BO,OOO, figures that were mentioned
in the days when “The Bullfighter” was
abroad in the land —before he was
wanted by the police on a conspiracy
charge connected with the P. and G.
Finance in Sydney, and before he
absconded from bail at Bombay. The
only bid for the house that belonged
to Forbes, otherwise Brandi, who was
formerly a N.Z. Perpetual Forests bond-
salesman, was £20,000, and it wasn’t
accepted. A syndicate made the offer ;
its idea was to convert the place into
a “high-class guest-house and social
centre.”
* * * *
Holeproof Hosiery ords. were sought
after in Melbourne last week at 225. 6d.,
sellers holding aloof. The yield (last
sales were at 225. 6d.) was nearly 9 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Though the cost
of imported silk and rayon has gone
up, and increased prices for women’s
hosiery are forecast, Holeproof has a
strong second string in its men’s (woollen)
hosiery section.
Steel output by B.H.P.’s Newcastle
works for the four weeks to Nov. 19
reached the high figure of 77,268 tons,
up 7000 tons on the preceding month
and well above the average of any full
financial year so far. The 77,000-odd
tons was at the rate of 1,060,000 tons
a year, working a full 52 weeks; the
capacity of the plant is reckoned to be
in the vicinity of 1,000,000 tons a year,
so it would seem that all the blast-
furnaces are active the full round of the
clock just now.


wm
stiver
AUSTRALIA* ITALIA
SWIM© ©SWAO® 7 ELTHDo
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
ft
mm
mmm
wmmm
mm.
FORD
“My
L pulls better
and runs
smoother
' on
Insulated
Oil ?? says
Mr. D. A. Browne
13 Murchison Street, East St. Kilda
who drove his ’3B Ford in the
SEC RETOIL TEST
“During the 1,000 mile test 01
Insulated Oil, my Ford ran cooler
and pulled better,” said Mr.
Browne after his long drive.
“The engine was more flexible
and its all-round performance
was remarkably improved.”
Mr. Browne and 130 other drivers
all tested the New Insulated
Motor Oil before it was put on
the market. They proved that
it protects the engine from heat
and prevents harmful varnish
from forming. They found that
their engines ran easier and
smoother on Insulated Oil.
WHY DID TEXACO INSULATE THIS NEW OIL?
Closer fitting pistons and tighter
moving parts make modern en-
gines run hotter. Old style oil
breaks down through this heat
and forms gummy varnish on
cylinders, valves and pistons.
Engines become sluggish and
stiff; pistons may even seize.
Insulated Oil withstands heat and
prevents this varnish from form-
ing. It gives smoother, easier
running and improves engine
performance. Insulated oil is
essential for new model engines
—it gives new life to all cars.
NEW INSULATED OIL WAS TESTED IN
131 CARS Read what the drivers say:
fsd
1937 CHEVROLET
My engine gave entire
satisfaction for the
whole of the 1,000 mile
test on Insulated Oil.
I confidently recom-
mend Texaco to all
Chev. owners.
Mr. F. Fieldsend, 8 Young
St., E. MAITLAND, N.S.W.
f
1938 STANDARD
I was particularly im-
pressed. The engine ran
beautifully on Texaco
Insulated Oil. The
smoothness of its ope-
ration indicated perfect
lubrication.
Mr. H. J. Allison, 131 Buck-
ley St., ESSEN DON, V.
m
1936 VAUXHALL
I experienced an all-
round improvement in
engine operation dur-
ing my 1,000 test run
on Texaco. I am
pleased with the flexi-
bility of the engine.
Mr. W. E. Hawken, 2 Lobb
St., COBURG, VIC.
mm
1937 MORRIS
There is no sign of
drag whatever on In-
sulated Oil. I am
convinced that Texaco
is best for Morris cars
after my hard-driving
test of 1,151 miles.
Mr. A. May, 73 O’Connor
St. f HABERFIELD, N.S.W.
«2g
mf
1937 AUSTIN
“The engine in my Aus-
tin 10 was more flexible
with Insulated Oil and
pulled better. Starting
on cold mornings was
noticeably improved.”
Mr. W. Brice, 5 Salisbury
St., COBURG, VIC .
m.
PLYMOUTH
I drive at fast speeds
which require an oil
that stands up to heat.
Texaco Oil has all the
lubricating qualities to
suit the Plymouth.
Mr. V. A. Targett, 148 Bris-
bane St., LAUNCESTON, T.
sdf
1938 OLDSMOBILE
My Olds, runs smoother
and cooler and livelier
on Texaco Insulated
Oil. Oil consumption
was very small on the
1,000 mile test.
Mr. L. Hancock, c/o Jones
& Joseph Ltd., Edward St.,
BRISBANE.
sdf
1938 VAUXHALL
My Vauxhall engine
gave a much improved
performance on Insul-
ated Oil. There was a
more even surge of
power on my test run.
Mr. R. E. Perrin , 90 Grand
Parade , MAYLANDS.
Drain and refill with
NEW TEXACO
INSULATED
MOTOR OIL
The Huge Cost of War
In the Commons last week Sir John
Simon said that from Sept, to June 30
next spending would be at the rate
£2,400,000,000 a year—which is about
the total accumulated national debt ot
Australia, without taking the 25 p.c. ex-
change into account. About £1,000,000
a year is to come from taxation, the
rest from borrowing. “The present
annual expenditure is already half the
total income of the community,” Sir
John said, adding that “future require-
ments will be considerably greater.”
Also, “There are 10,000-odd people whose
aggregate income is £180,000,000. From
that I will take £120,000,000 in income
tax and surtax. If I took all it would
be 5 p.c. of the amount I need to borrow
this year, and it would keep the country
going for between seven and ten days.
Moreover, we take an additional
£40,000,000 a year from this group in
death duties, making a total of
£160,000,000 a year.”
These details were a preliminary to the
announcement of further sacrifices to be
asked of the British people generally.
“The only way for democracy to meet
the terrible burdens is by sacrifices
throughout the whole of the population.
I do not suggest that we should follow
Germany’s example, but it is impossible
to maintain peace-time living standards.
Australia will find out also, if war
drags on, that employers and the em-
ployed will have to make sacrifices to
pay for our part in this war. If our
arbitration system continues to add extras
to the basic wage as the cost of living
rises it will be inevitable later on that
these wages will have to bear additional
taxes. And, while the welfare of wage-
earners is thus being taxed to finance the
war, it becomes more and more neces-
sary that every penny spent on defence
be wisely spent. The customary poli-
tician’s idea of “sound finance” won’t
do now.
Broken Hill Prop, scrip, cum rights
to the 64-for-100 bonus issue from
premium capital, has been one of the
most solidly supported issues since the
outbreak of war. On announcement of
the bonus on August 25 the shares rose
from 555. to 655. between morning and
afternoon; there were fluctuations in
the uncertain period afterwards, but in
the buoyant stretch early in November
765. was paid for the scrip. Later on
quotes came down to 725. 3d., but last
week they were near to 755., ex div. The
date of the bonus issue is yet to be
announced, though, coming from the
proceeds of share premiums, there should
be no special difficulties about it. B.H.P.
should be very active during this war,
and its affiliated cos., chief of which are
Australian Iron and Steel, Lysaghts,
Rylands, Commonwealth Rolling Mills
and Stewarts and Lloyds, should also be
kept busy. In any case, that is the way
the market views the position, and buys
the scrip on the basis of an immediate
return of £3 7s. per cent. The scrip is
worth that price only as a holding
proposition, and before a higher income
in the shape of increased aggregate divs.
on the old and the bonus scrip come
to light, it is likely that prices lower
than 755. will have been offered and
accepted.
* * * *
Amalgamated Textiles, which owns
two country woollen mills in N. b.
Wales, has made a definite recovery
from the mess it fell into prior to the
death of a former manager, following
which stock values had to be revised,
largely as a result of which a loss ol
£125,652 was shown for the 14 months
to Nov. 30, 1938. After the reorgani-
sation stock values were shown at
£ll7 619, compared with £187,183 14
months earlier. For the 10 months
to Sept. 30 last a net trading profit ot
£6367 has been disclosed after valuing
stocks at £98,555, and a refund of £4574
from the Taxation Department, plus
£1405 brought back from tax reserve,
enabled a total of £12,346 to be written
off accumulated losses, etc., reducing
them from £67,732 to £55,386. Intan-
gible assets now amount to 2s. 6d. per
13s. 4d. share, against which there is
sd. a share in forfeited shares reseive.
For net tangibles of 11s. 3d. a share
the market pays ss. 9d. More economical
manufacturing and better profit-margins
are mentioned by the directors, and an
improvement on the profit just announced
is exp?~ted in 1939-40. Defence equip-
ment may also help the co., which last
year reduced its outside debt (£104,764)
by £12,229. Debtors rose £24,026, to
£50,267. Even if losses are wiped out
of the accounts by writing off capital
or by applying profits to that end, earn-
ings at last year’s rate would permit
only a small dividend and would scarcely
justify the present market of ss. 9d.
(6s. 6d. before the accounts came out) for
the scrip. The future trend of support for
the shares will therefore depend on
whether the directors’ anticipations of
higher profits for the current year are
realised.
* * - * *
H. B. Dickie, a well-established Aus-
tralian towel - manufacturing concern
turning out a good article, saw 325. 6d.
paid for its ord. shares last week in
Melbourne. This is far and away the
highest quote yet recorded. Stocks of
imported towels are being used up
rapidly, and, like all other cotton-goods,
threaten to become scarce. Even if
Dickie’s don’t increase prices beyond the
extra cost of importing cotton, etc. —in
other words, if their margin of profit
doesn’t increase—the wider market for
their products should give the business
a chance of greater expansion. There is
a special shortage of dowlas (tea-towels)
in the Commonwealth, and this line
may eventually be manufactured here.
H. B. Dickie in 1938-39 earned a profit
equal to 12.6 p.c. on ord. capital and
declared an 8 p.c. div. Only two-thirds
of the profits were distributed, and re-
serves now stand at £13,195, subject to
goodwill (£27,000). Paid capital is
£115,000 (the odd £15,000 in 6 p.c. prefs.),
and fixed assets total £74,290, plant
figuring at no more than £36,440. Out-
siders were owed £38,384 last balance
day.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
RUSSIA AND FINLAND.
[This (condensed) survey of the Russo-Finnish situa-
tion appeared in London “Economist” before Finland
was invaded.]
Beyond Finland stand the other Scandinavian
States ; beyond them again runs a chain of interests
from London to New York.
For the sake of world opinion the Soviet Gov-
ernment would doubtless have preferred to leave Fin-
land alone. But in the circumstances that was impos-
sible. Half a victory in the Baltic would be worse
than no victory at all, for with half a victory every-
thing might once again be lost.
The Soviet Government needs to establish itself
on the Finnish coast and on islands in the Gulf of
Finland (though much more doubtfully at Petsamo on
the Arctic coast) as a necessary precaution against
German military action in the future. The only way
to protect the newly-acquired Estonian, Latvian and
Lithuanian bases —and, indeed, the only way to obtain
full value from their acquisition—is by securing a
foothold on the opposite coastline. As an appendix
to this the Soviet Government must also provide for
the contingency of a German attempt, later on, to
seize the Aaland Islands, placed in a position of great
strategic value in the mouth of the Gulf of Bothnia
astride the iron-ore route from Lulea to the Kiel
Canal. M. Molotov’s indignant denial that the Aaland
Islands were in question will misguide no one who
realises what a multitude of meanings diplomatic
phraseology can cover.
For the Finns to accede to everything asked would
re-create something like pre-1917 conditions, when
Finland was administered as a Grand Duchy of the
Tsarist Empire. The military aspect of their resistance
can be passed over in a few sentences. Round a
nucleus of 30,000 regular soldiers Finland can count
on at least 300,000 men of excellent morale, led by
generals who have already had experience of fighting
the Russians. Finnish artillery and small arms factories
have been working in collaboration with the Bofors
unit in Sweden, just as British engines have been sup-
plied to the aircraft works at Tammerfors. The terrain
is unusually difficult for an invader, especially if he
relies on mechanised arms, for Finland has 70,000 lakes
measuring more than 200 yards in length. From the
direction of Leningrad the invaders would have to pass
the narrow neck between Lake Ladoga and the sea, no
easy matter even without having to reckon with a
determined defence.
While the landing of men on the Finnish coast is
considered to be of great difficulty, the capital of Fin-
land lies only 10 to 15 minutes’ flying from the
Estonian coast. Air bombardment on the scale prac-
tised by the Germans in Poland would meet with even
less resistance than the Polish air force was able to
provide.
While the Bolshevists have spread their poison
westwards the honest Aryan has sat by with an expres-
sion on his face of imbecilic satisfaction. He has re-
called from the affected lands those settlers of
mediaeval Germany who first set up their homesteads
along the eastern Baltic so many centuries ago. He
has done nothing to protect what is so patently his
vital interest. It would therefore be quite safe to
assume that he would not send again to Finland the
military help which was the instrument of her emanci-
pation 22 years ago.
In the same way it could be expected that the
Scandinavian States would withhold military help
from a beleaguered Finland. Norway and Denmark
have neither the opportunity nor the inclination to
assist. The only conceivable circumstances in which
Sweden could consent to take up arms in defence of
Finland would be at Germany’s instigation, and on the
most sanguine forecast the time for that is not yet.
And if Sweden were to embroil herself with Russia
at this stage, no matter with what reservations, she
might find herself obliged to provide the Germans
with guarantees that their iron ore supply would not
be tampered with or delayed, and that, in short, would
entail a partial occupation.
If the improbable were to happen after all, and
Sweden found herself unable to stand by while Fin-
nish independence was destroyed, then events would
be likely to reach the outside world. With Scandi-
navians at war with Russia—an extremely unlikely con-
tingency, while it is quite unthinkable that they should
be at war with Germany —then Britain and France
might possibly conceive their interest in an attempt at
military intervention. Even so, the Baltic is a difficult
sea for naval manoeuvre ; Germany commands the only
way in ; and beyond that there is scope only for an
attack from the Arctic coastline, a chill and perhaps
fruitless business at the best of times.
But so long as Finland was alone, Britain and
France could not consider antagonising Russia in a
venture that would be even more desperate than the
defence of Poland, any more than Germany, whose
interests far more strongly dictate an independent
Finland, would consider opposing Russia’s present
demands. Britain and France are doing what they can
to restore a more orderly world ; that is the only assist-
ance they can give to small States on the other side of
Germany.
Militarised points on the Finnish coast might
improve Russia’s strategic strength against Baltic
attack ; but the Soviet Government knows that seizure
from a free people is justified on none but imperialist
grounds involving the final destruction of their claim
to be the upholders of decency in international affairs,
the hardening of democratic opinion against them, the
secret hostility of Germany, the direct comparison
with Hitler and Poland.
Balkan Anxiety
{Condensed from an article by Victor Gordon Lennox
in London “Daily Telegraph.”)
Although, at first sight, there is no obvious asso-
ciation between the Russo-Finnish situation and that
which is slowly taking shape in the Mediterranean
and Balkan areas, they are, in fact, closely related.
The feeling grows that Stalin aims at rebuilding
the Russian Empire of Alexander I. If that is true,
the menace to Finland and Sweden is balanced by a
similar threat to the Balkans.
Since her freedom from Russian rule was restored
after the last war, Finland has always insisted on her
historical association with the Scandinavian group.
The rapes of Scandinavia by Russian legions and ships
have been too frequent during past centuries for the
fear of Russia ever to lie far below the surface of
Scandinavian consciousness. Consequently the threat
to Finland is felt acutely throughout Scandinavia.
A Sweden that had abandoned neutrality might
at the same moment become a victim of the predatory
instincts of Germany. Apart from any other con-
siderations, her abundance of iron-ore would make
her a tempting morsel.
The course of events will be under the most
anxious scrutiny in the Balkans. It is probably true
“Daily Mirror,” London.
“NEW OUTRAGE BY BRUTAL FLY!”
that the future course of Rumanian policy will be
strongly influenced by the outcome of the Russo-
Finnish affair.
Observers returning from the Balkans confirm
the view which prevails in Rome that the darkest
shadow now hanging over that area is a Russian rather
than a German one. There is an impression strongly
prevalent there that Turkey would not shrink from
fighting to resist any attempt to destroy the peace in
the Balkans from whichever quarter it might come.
There seems little doubt that Russian policy is
extremely active in Bulgaria, where there is a conflict
of feelings between affection for the Slav Power and
fear of its domination. Fear is perhaps the more
potent of the two forces at work. This historical
affinity leads to an ingrained mistrust of Bulgaria’s
motives in the Turkish mind.
Turkey has maintained friendly relations with
Russia in the dual belief that Russia sought no further
expansion and would refrain from attempting to com-
munise Turkey. An unrestrained growth of Com-
munism in Bulgaria, encouraged by a newly imperial-
istic Russia, would create a situation wholly inimical
to the Turkish conception of a unified Balkin bloc.
In this attitude Turkey would find herself at one with
Italy.
Seven Kinds of Air-raids.
(Condensed from an article by Capt. H. S. Broad,
A.F.C., in London “Daily Sketch”)
Ignoring purely military operations by bombers,
there are seven different types of raid which the Eng-
lishman may have to face on the home front. It is
reassuring to know that, from the raiders point of
view, there are objections to each type.
In the last war the Germans carried out raids at
a high altitude in good weather. They are hardly
likely to do so again on a big scale, for the past 21
years have seen enormous strides in anti-aircraft de-
vices. This kind of raid would allow the use of the
latest guns and incomparable interceptor fighters
to the best advantage. The enemy would be kept at
a height which would be too great for accurate bomb-
ing, and his losses would almost certainly be too
heavy to make the venture worth while.
As an alternative, they might fly entirely in the
clear air usually found at a great height above the
clouds. They would have to rely solely on navigation
either by radio, by the heavenly bodies or by a com-
bination of both. That might not be an insuperable
obstacle, for a recent authoritative writer reckons that
three or four expert navigators, taking their readings at
high speed, can get an aircraft to within a mile of
any given objective. He argues that such a raid could
“blot out” any given four square miles —given enough
aircraft. But the interceptors, specially designed for
high altitude work, would be among the enemy, exact-
ing a terrible toll. The chief danger would be on a
cloudy night, for the clouds would shut out the search-
lights.
Thirdly, we have what I shall call the “dead-
reckoning raid,” in which the bombers select a night
of bad weather, climb up into cloud, fly through it
purely by blind-flying methods and carry on until
they think they are over their destination. Here they
loose their bombs, and go home with no idea of what
havoc they have caused.
In the last war blind flying was unknown. Now
for some years the Germans have been sending over
relays of pilots on commercial work, so that they
possess hundreds of men who know certain routes
blindfold. Their big disadvantage is going to be the
absence of weather and wind reports from the British
end.
Those three are all night raids. Number four
might easily take place in daylight, for it consists of
flying over in cloud by dead-reckoning, and then
coming out low down for the bombing, with an imme-
diate return to clouds for the escape back.
The fifth type is a development of the previous
one, and is known as the low-bombing raid. It is the
only sure way of putting a bomb where you want it,
and has been brought to a fine art by the Nazi air
force. It consists of coming right down over an objec-
tive and practically placing your bomb as required by
the High Command. That is where the balloon
barrage comes in. The Germans’ favorite method is
rendered impossible, or almost impossible.
Closely allied to this type of raid, but a distinct
technique nevertheless, is the one in which not only the
bombing but the approach is carried out at a very
low altitude. It may be tried against objectives on or
near the coasts. The enemy comes out of the cloud
when well over the sea or open country and sweeps
along at a few hundred feet, so low that the A.A. guns
can’t be aimed rapidly enough to get him. Big centres
of population, with their balloons, are, of course,
immune from this technique.
The last kind of raid is peculiarly hard to combat.
During November and February Britain gets a lot of
early mornings when a ground mist keeps the inter-
ceptors on the ground, or, rather, prevents them from
landing once they are in the air. In consequence, owing
to their relatively short range, they cannot indulge in
unrestricted flying. On the other hand, the sky at
these times is often quite clear at two or three thou-
sand feet, and the trip to England would present no
difficulties to a raiding squadron.
The Blockade.
{Condensed from an article by Adam Bothwell in
London “Sunday Express.”)
How many miles of sea have to be patrolled by
the British Fleet in order to enforce blockade upon the
whole continent of Europe?
The answer is—a meagre 226. From the east
coast of Scotland to Stavanger in Norway—2oo miles.
The English Channel—lB miles. Straights of Gib-
raltar —eight miles. Suez —you can throw a cricket
ball across that canal.
With strong squadrons of cruisers based on a
battle fleet patrolling the three sea spaces and with
our guns guarding Suez, Britain can have the whole of
Europe by the throat.
At the beginning of the last war the British Gov-
ernment was afraid of offending neutral countries.
So the Foreign Office announced that prize courts
should no longer decide contraband disputes accord-
ing to the principles of established prize law. Under
the international law of blockade, which is as exact
and detailed as criminal law, the country which com-
mands the sea is entitled to remove from neutral ship-
ping all contraband of war —that is, any material
which may assist or succor the enemy. If the neutral
disputes the fact that the seized material is contraband,
the matter is referred to a prize court.
Instead of this, the British Foreign Office set
itself up as judge on contraband seizures, basing
its judgments not on whether the goods seized were
in fact contraband, but on whether neutral countries
would be offended if the Foreign Office said they were
contraband.
In attempting to avoid giving offence to neutrals,
the Foreign Office allowed them to increase their
imports of essential commodities. And these increases
found their way into Germany.
Britain allowed Norway, Sweden, Denmark and
Holland to increase their imports of essential com-
modities by more than 200 per cent, above normal
requirements. During the first three years of the last
war, these countries were enabled by Britain’s for-
bearance to export to Germany iron, metal, horses,


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
ds
Trinity Grammar School
SUMMER HILL
A CHURCH OF ENGLAND
DAY AND BOARDING SCHOOL FOR BOYS
(One of the Associated Schools of New South Wales.)
The School Buildings, comprising Boarding House, New Block
of Classrooms, Science Block, etc., are surrounded by 1 5 acres
of ground including the main School Oval, two other football
and cricket grounds, tennis courts, swimming pool, etc.
PREPARATORY SCHOOL AT STRATHFIELD
Illustrated Prospectus will be forwarded on application to the Bursar.
HEADMASTER:
V. S. MURPHY, M.A. (Oxon.)
The Richardson Chain Hotel
MM
a
vrr-.rr
.
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street, Melbourne
(Opposite Kailway Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from. . 12/6
’Phone: M 4 14 1 (10 lines).
copper, petroleum, oil, foodstuffs and fertilisers of
every kind. , ~ .
It was not until the end of 1915 that any attempt
was made by England to limit the sending even o
her own coal to Sweden. In 1916 over 1,500,000 tons
of British coal arrived in Swedish ports, more than
twice its normal requirements. Most of it was sent
straight on from Sweden to Germany.
Cotton, an invaluable ingredient for explosives,
was sent into Scandinavian countries during 1915 in
quantities four times as great as in the year before the
war. More than half this cotton went to Germany.
Ten thousand tons of imported lard was allowed
to enter Scandinavian ports in 1915, where before the
war the annual requirement had been only 800 tons.
Danish agricultural products, fish and fats, were
sent into Germany in vast quantities from 1914 to
1917. The Danes could only do this because Britain
allowed them to import through its blockade fodder
to feed their cattle, fertilisers to grow their food and
gear to catch their fish. By its own folly it per-
mitted Denmark to convert itself into a gigantic
German farm.
By 1917 the Foreign Office had realised that its
illegal suppression of the prize-court system was pro-
longing the war. There was a reversal of policy. Once
more prize courts were set up.
Today, prize courts and not the Foreign Office
are deciding and the blockade is infinitely more
effective.
Some people believe that Russia will render
Britain’s blockade ineffective. Not so. Assume that
Russia is going to send Germany on credit all the sur-
plus material it can spare. Imagine that transport
difficulties between the two countries will be speedily
surmounted.
Germany, in peace-time, requires to import
63,000,000 tons of material each year. Suppose that
Britain’s blockade cuts off only half the imports:
Germany will be short of 320,000 tons of fruit,
almost 5,000,000 tons of cereals. Russia does not
export any fruit at all and her total annual export of
cereals is only 1,000,000 tons.
Fertilisers. —German shortage will amount to
1,200,000 tons. Russia’s total export is 600,000 tons.
Metals. —German deficiency will be 1,340,000
tons. Total Russian export, 300,000 tons.
Iron ore. —German deficiency, 9,000,000 tons.
Russia’s total annual production of iron ore is
15,000,000 tons, and it requires almost the whole of
this for its own use.
Copper ore. —German shortage, 360,000 tons.
Total Russian output 70,000 tons.
No foolish scruples about the feelings of neutral
nations which sit at the ringside puffing cigars and
watching the blood flow should deter Britain from
rigidly enforcing the blockade.
The Revolution of Nihilism.
[Once president of the Danzig Senate and a member
of the Nazi party, Dr. Hermann Rauschning became
disgusted with the rule of violence and went into exile.
In The Revolution of Nihilism, a book published as
“a warning to the West,” he sees Nazism as a blind
force, a revolution of destruction, which Hitler has set
in motion but is unable to control. Extracts from a
condensation of the book in “Readers’ Digest” are
given here. The passage referring to the “German-
Russian world revolution” was a prophecy published
some months before Hitler’s deal with Stalin was
made public.]
In 1933, immediately after Germany’s withdrawal
from the League of Nations, I attended a “leader’s
conference” in the Prussian Herrenhaus or House of
Lords. Never, Hitler declared, should Germany return
to the corrupt company of the democracies, doomed
as they were to death and destruction. Germany was
preparing the way for a gigantic revolution, and the
world would have to make up its mind to follow it.
I had misunderstood the nature of the National
Socialist movement when I joined it. My purpose now
is to reveal that this ostensibly national movement is
a continuing process of revolution, whose subversive
course involves the total destruction of all past values,
of all spiritual standards, utter nihilism.
An open mind and no programme at all —that is
what has enabled National Socialism to win its own
way. Its strength has lain in incessant activity and in
embarking on anything so long as it kept things mov-
ing. National Socialism is action pure and simple,
dynamics in vacuo, revolution at a variable tempo.
The actual goal of National Socialist dynamism is
simply action, whether conceived as a German social
revolution or as a world revolution or, finally, as the
“eternal war” which many men in high places in the
movement consider to be the future condition of
human society.
That war, however, has no other purpose than to
destroy all traditional order. In its limitless “dyna-
mism,” the nihilist revolution of National Socialism
sets out to destroy everything that it cannot convert
to its own pattern. The new social order will consist
of universal and equal servitude, a general, permanent
mobilisation. There will be a progressive destruction
of the middle class amid an all-pervading atmosphere
of barracks and prison.
Those who know Germany know that the nation
no longer credits itself with a will of its own. If war
comes the nation will fight, and at the outset, perhaps,
even magnificently. It will yield to every appeal to its
passions. But of one thing, in its degradation, it seems
to be no longer capable —action on its own initiative.
What Germany is aiming at is not the restoration
of the frontiers of 1914 but “total revision,” a com-
pletely different order, or, in Goebbels’s candid phrase,
“a redistribution of the world.” And this fact will
not be altered by any treaty agreements or by any of
Hitler’s proclamations.
But, asks the ordinary citizen, can there be in the
field of practical policy such a thing as a will to un-
limited revolution? To ask this is to be deceived by
Hitler’s realism. This man, who can calculate with
such icy clarity, surely cannot at the same time be a
faniast simply out to overturn, everything! Yet it is so.
There is no degree of saturation in the political aims
of National Socialism: in its very nature, there can
be none.
The new German dynamism is not merely a nine-
teenth-century style imperialism, based on economic
exploitation. The coming order will be arf upheaval of
dimensions at present inconceivable. It contemplates
an entirely new world order, disciplined under the rigid
leadership of the one chosen nation. The will now
bent on achieving this manifests a harshness in its ends
and its means that Europe has not seen for centuries.
A German-Russian alliance means simply the con-
fluence of two streams which run toward the same sea.
It will be no ordinary coalition between two Powers
for normal purposes. Germany and Russia will come
together to promote world revolution. That alliance
is to be Hitler’s greatest stroke.
The plan behind his policy is universal political
unsettlement. Friendships, pacts, even enmities are
only of tactical importance. Power is the one aim of
the movement, and the maximum power is attained
by interference in every problem of the world.
No order, no balance, no neighborliness between
nations is aimed at, but fundamental disharmony. No
new equilibrium can be attained, no matter what con-
cessions are made by other nations. The essential aim
is preparedness, and unscrupulous, doctrineless deter-
mination to seize anything and to be ready to do any-
thing that serves the increase of power. It is a con-
quistador policy. National Socialists in high places
declare that this is one of those periods that come only
at intervals of centuries, a period of revolutionary
change in the world, in which, amid the general in-
security, every resolute stroke has good prospects of
success.
Such ideas make it intelligible that one of the main
concerns of National Socialism must be to keep the
world in an eternal state of crisis.
I predict that none of Hitler’s long-range aims
has been given up. The wresting from France of her
northern territories is still envisaged. Holland, Bel-
gium, Denmark may suffer occupation, and may be
forced into a close alliance with Germany.
It seems to be no longer in the power of the
National Socialist leaders to decide whether they shall
return to a policy of peace and economic co-opera-
tion, even if the Western Powers were to come half-
way to meet them. The National Socialist regime is
now the prisoner of its own system of domination. It
can no more dispense with its pursuit of world hege-
mony than with its Government by violence at home.
It is following the law of its existence, and cannot
be diverted from its path either by threats or goodwill.
The only chance to re-establish peace in the world
lies in the removal of the National Socialist regime.
Masters of Duplicity.
(From an article by Wickham Steed in “Picture Post.”)
In the 12 years between the Berlin Congress of
1878 and Bismarck’s fall in 1890 the duplicity of his
policy baffles description. He concluded an alliance
with Austria against Russia in 1879—and kept it
secret. In 1881 he arranged with the Russian Ambas-
sador, Saburov, a League of Three Emperors (Ger-
many, Austria and Russia) which was meant to keep
Russia and Austria neutral if Bismarck should make
war on France. In 1884 this League was renewed
while Russia was still ignorant of the Austro-German
alliance against her. Then, in 1887, Bismarck made
his secret “reinsurance” treaty with Russia behind the
back of Austria. Having done this he persuaded
Austria to join him in 1888 in telling Russia of the
Austro-German alliance against her. Bismarck would
not have had much to learn from Adolf Hitler in
diplomatic rascality.
But in March, 1890, Nemesis overtook Bismarck.
At the very moment when Russia was about to renew
with him the secret reinsurance treaty, an official of
the German Foreign Office brought the treaty to the
knowledge of the young German Emperor, who had
known nothing of it. The Emperor dismissed Bis-
marck and the treaty lapsed.
Within a year Russia began to negotiate an alli-
ance with France, and Europe was divided into two
camps. German policy then took another direction.
It worked to prevent agreement between Great Britain
and France and urged Russia to expand in the Far
East against Japan. Its object was to keep Russia out
of Europe and deprive the Franco-Russian alliance
of half its strength.
One result of this policy was to bring about the
Anglo-French Entente of 1904. After Russia had
been defeated by Japan in the Far East she turned
towards Great Britain and concluded the Anglo-
Russian Entente of 1907. In 1909 Germany made
a cardinal blunder by forcing Russia to yield to a
German ultimatum in the European crisis which fol-
lowed the Austrian annexation of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Since it was clear that Russia would not yield to
another German threat, the peace of Europe was at
the mercy of any quarrel that might arise between
Austria and Russia over the Balkans.
In the summer of 1914 their quarrel about Serbia
—sedulously fostered by Germany—plunged Europe
into war. The war ended with the overthrow of the
Russian, German and Austrian Empires and the resur-
rection of Poland. But in Russia Bolshevism had
replaced Tsardom, while in Germany the Weimar
“Republic” succeeded to Bismarck’s Empire. Between
“Red” Russia and “Republican” Germany a treaty
was concluded in April, 1922, with the object, on
the German side, of securing Russian help for the
secret rearmament of Germany. This treaty remained
in force even after the advent of Hitler’s “Third
Reich.”
Then, for his own reasons, Hitler began to
inveigh against Bolshevism. He sought—not unsuc-
cessfully—to persuade Western nations that he was
the safeguard of Europe against Red revolution, so
that the rearmament of Germany might be overlooked
and her violations of treaties which, like that of
Locarno, he had voluntarily accepted might be con-
doned. Not until Hitler’s destruction of Czecho-
slovakia last March did Western Governments begin
to open their eyes.
Then Hitler turned against Poland in the hope
of reviving the old tradition that Russo-German agree-
ment might again be based on a partition of Polish
territory. He had long carried on secret negotiations
with the Bolsheviks while he was denouncing them
publicly. The Russo-German pact of last August was
the result. What Hitler has gained by it cannot yet
be guessed. It has thwarted his ambitions in the east
and south-east of Europe. It has left him at grips
with the indestructible spirit of the Polish people. In
his Reichstag speech on October 6 he declared that
Poland will never rise again. This prophecy might
have been uttered at any time since the end of the
eighteenth century by Russian, Austrian or Prussian
statesmen. In 1918 it was proved false. The future
will prove Hitler’s prophecy to be equally false.


NOW FOR
aK.b:i
i:
&
C'VZ
K
s
a;
§=
9;
X
M
'K
f
m
%
S/f.2,
m
V
UK
*6
m
w
v
#
P
i
I
jr
i
4
m
I
%
m
A
•rSl®
WM
m
WMW
ALAN » * ©Aise
y.<- :
11l
mm
&x-: &x?y <•&
WHEN you’ve finished being kind to every-
one else this Christmas, be kind to yourself.
Have a well - earned u K. 8.” to welcome the
festive season, and keep a good supply of this
refreshing lager in the house-
’PHONE YOUR NEAREST HOTEL FOR HOME
DELIVERY
Bottles 1/2 Half Bottles Bdi
(Sydney and suburbs)
TOOTH'S
%
LAGER
IN BOTTLES AND HALF BOTTLES
K. 174 B


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Melbourne’s most consistent galloper
is Ronwin, winner of the Fund Handi-
cap at Moonee Valley on Saturday.
Backed to favoritism, she led throughout
to win from Stoic and Bankshaw, and,
judging by the manner in which she ran
on at the finish, a distance beyond 10
furlongs should not trouble her. Like
the dual Cup winner, Rivette, she is a
daughter of Ronsard. Recovering from
two serious attacks of laryngitis early in
her career, Ronwin, now five years old,
has since hung up a record of consistency
that is hard to beat. She has started in 27
races, and has finished out of a place
only five times. She is almost sure to
be hard to beat in the Ballarat Cup,
to be run to-morrow (Thursday). A
penalty of 61b. takes her weight to 8.2.
Trainer Lou Robertson was fined £2
for using wrong colors on Our Boy in
the Benevolent Highweight Handicap,
but as Our Boy landed the stake of £175,
and, judging by the market, some nice
bets into the bargain, the fine was paid
with a smile. Evidently the all-white
colors of the club induced Our Boy to
put his best leg forward, for his form
was a big improvement on his showing
at Williamstown a fortnight earlier. On
the latter occasion he was among the tail-
enders at the finish of the seven furlongs
race won by Chaldean. With an addi-
tional furlong to be covered on Satur-
day, he made a dash from the three fur-
longs as if he had just joined in the race,
and, gathering in the leaders at the top
of the straight, wop as he liked from
Winterset and Swettenham. Our Boy,
a five-year-old by Beau Fils-Full Court,
is a versatile gelding, able to mix hurdle
and flat racing with success. Four starts
back he won over hurdles at Mentone.
Many buyers of yearlings are preju-
diced against bidding for the stock of
old mares, but Stagegirl was 22 years of
age when she produced Stage Law,
winner of the Juvenile Handicap at
Moonee Valley. Hispania was 23 years
old when she foaled Lerida, who finished
third in the same race.
Course withdrawals of Linkboy and
Sun Valley made the way easier for Stage
Law, who, however, justified the heavy
backing for him by winning stylishly
from Son of Legend, whose sire, Great
Legend, is still racing. Stage Law, by
Law Maker, is not a big colt, but he
stands over a fair amount of ground,
and Saturday’s win repaid £175 of the
400 guineas he cost E. Y. Sheil as a year-
ling. Sheil has raced many good horses
over a long period, and has always
had a fondness for jumpers. Eight years
ago Rakwool won for him the Grand
National Steeplechase, a race Shed’s
daughter won the following year with
Precocious. Stage Law was broken in by
Victoria’s leading woman rider, Mrs. Ken
Moore.
Well-known Sydney owner J. J. Leahy,
whose colors have been carried by
Sarcherie, Speciality and other prominent
performers, may have been entertaining
a champion hurdler unawares when he
raced Ken on lease from T. F. Dangar,
of Coonamble (N.S.W.). Ken raced
with little success on the flat in N.S.W.,
the lease was surrendered, and last
Easter he was purchased by P. T. Hey-
wood for hurdle racing in Melbourne.
Ken has been an immediate success in
his new sphere, wins at Geelong and
Bendigo having preceded his success in
the Appeal Hurdle Race at Moonee
Valley on Saturday. Strongly supported
in one of the most open betting hurdle
races in months, he dropped a long way
out of his ground early, but responded
immediately rider J. Sewell moved on
him, and, moving up second to Cosgard
entering the straight, won easily from
Little Slam and Cosgard.
Good races are easy to ride from the
grandstand, so apprentice R. Healey
should not be discouraged by the criti-
cism following his narrow defeat on
warm favorite Kanuri in the Benefit
Handicap at Moonee Valley. Healey,
who is apprenticed to , Ka nun s trainer
R. Webster, had recorded his first win
on the same gelding at Ascot three days
earlier, and, although he was not quite
as vigorous as another apprentice, vy.
Williamson, on Magic Circ ,
finish of Saturday s race, he will improve
when more opportunities come his way.
Kanuri went down by half a head alter
looking all over a winner when he moved
up second at the turn. Third to Li
and Aurie’s Star in this year s N
market, Kanuri is a good aavertisemept
for the inclusion of milk in a horse s aiei.
His liking for milk was discovei y
accident—he stole a supply infenaea
for a poddy calf while spelling at the
property of his part-owners—and since
then he has had the best part of a bucKei
of milk every day.
Magic Circle’s success in the Benefit
Handicap surprised most backers, not to
mention bookmakers, who laid as much
as 20 to 1 against her. She had not
raced since July, had been back from
owner Ned O’Dwyer’s property at
Wagga only five or six weeks, had not
done much in the way of fast work,
and, on past form, required a distance
a bit beyond six furlongs. Magic Circle,
however, thrives on a light preparation,
and her freshness enabled her to occupy
a forward position from the start of
Saturday’s race, lead into the straight,
and battle out the finish in game style.
Stable connections apparently anticipated
a good showing, for there was sufficient
money to force Magic Circle’s price down
to 10 to 1. A six-year-old by the Don-
caster winner Simeon’s Fort from Crow
Call, she is trained by the owner’s son,
W. O’Dwyer.
Companion, winner of the Relief Trial
Handicap at Moonee Valley, was one
of the first horses “specked” for the
Melbourne Cup. His form did not
warrant his contesting that race and he
was scratched, but he has always given
the impression that he would develop
into a good stayer, and now, perhaps,
he will act up to earlier expectations.
He disorganised the field somewhat when
he hung in suddenly immediately he hit
the front in the straight, and his rider,
ex-Queenslander W. Beresford, was sub-
sequently reprimanded by the stewards,
but the incident made no difference to
the result as far as first place was con-
cerned. Companion was leaving his rivals
at the end of the mile and a quarter to
win decisively fipm Windlelon and Burne
Vale. A four-year-old by Night Raid-
Graciosa, he is trained and part-owned
by R. P. Trihey, who experienced so
much success with Regular Bachelor.
4c * * *
Recording his first win on Tinamba in
April, 1914, and his last on Atticus at
Mentone in June this year, Frank Demp-
sey, one of Australia’s greatest jockeys,
has announced his retirement. During the
25 years separating his first and last wins,
Dempsey not only rode a winner of
almost every important race in Australia
—the Melbourne Cup was one of the few
which escaped him —but experienced con-
siderable success in England in 1925 and
1926. He piloted 41 winners in the latter
year, and would have continued to com-
mand some of the best riding in England
had he remained in that country. Climate,
however, was not to his liking.
Dempsey declares that Manfred was
the best horse he ever rode; that, although
he may not have been a genuine two-
miler, it is doubtful whether Australia has
seen many greater gallopers up to a mile
and a half. Manfred had a will of his
own, and was of an entirely different
temperament to Eurythmic, whom Demp-
sey declares was the perfect horse to
ride, a horse who could adapt himself
to any pace. Whittier and Frances Tres-
sady were other noted horses with whom
Dempsey was associated, Dempsey being
of opinion that he was never astride a
greater staying mare than Frances Tres-
sady. Although he has made no definite
plans for the future, Dempsey does not
intend to become a trainer.
* * * *
The Canterbury Park meeting, held at
Moorefield last Saturday, attracted a good
crowd, and once again backers got the
better of bookmakers. Five favorites
won in a programme of seven races, and
there was a heavy pay-out on the other
two winners, Novice (6 to 1) and Gam-
bier (4 to 1). Backers have shown re-
markable judgment in recent weeks, but
when the bookmakers have their turn
of luck punters will give back in one day
more than they have won at four meet-
ings.
Belvoir could not run more than seven
furlongs in Sydney before he was put
to hurdling, but he had no trouble in
winning the Jumpers’ Flat Race, over a
mile and a quarter, at Moorefield. The
ease of his win suggested three things—
the weakness of his opponents, the ease
with which sprinters can run a mile and
a quarter at Moorefield and the value of
hurdling as a stamina-builder for flat
racing. For the first seven furlongs J.
Gollop had to restrain Belvoir to keep
him behind Kaleon. When he gave the
horse his head he shot to the front in
a couple of strides, and that was the end
of it. Belvoir is only a four-year-old, and
is so solid now that it might be worth
while trying him in a mile and a quarter
race in open company.
Talking of hurdlers, it is worth men-
tioning that two other Moorefield win-
ners, Masterpiece and Postman, have been
over the jumps. Masterpiece has won
hurdling events, and Postman has done
some “schooling” at Randwick. For the
time being the connections of Master-
piece will forget all about the jumping
game. His win in the main race on
Saturday was his fourth consecutive suc-
cess on the flat, and he will now be
trained for Tattersall’s Cup at Randwick
on Jan. 1. His win in the Canterbury
Handicap on Saturday was made easier
by the idling tactics of other riders. While
Masterpiece was bowling along in the
lead and increasing his advantage all the
while, the apprentice boys on the rest
of the horses seemed to be half-asleep.
Half a mile from home it was apparent
that Masterpiece had the race well won,
and he was not pushed out to defeat
Santa by two lengths.
Postman, winner of the second divi-
sion of the Progressive Stakes, was
always favorite, but towards the close of
betting the bookmakers took a set against
him, and extended the price from 6 to 4
to 9 to 4. Postman won so easily that
McMenamin did not have to move on
him in the straight, but some keen judges
are still wondering if he has improved
considerably, or whether he will “squib”
it again when something races with him
in the early part. Personally, I think that
his recent racing has made him so solid
that he will win in open company during
the next few weeks.
Winning favorites in two-year-old races
have become somewhat monotonous for
bookmakers. It happened again on
Saturday when Shem won at Moorefield,
but as the best price was 5 to 4 on, and
he closed at 7 to 4 on, there was not
much profit for stable connections.
Actually the win did not place Shem in
the light of a really good colt, as D.
Munro had to ride him hard all the way
to beat an ordinary field. Still, it is hard
to judge the value of form shown in some
of the early juvenile events, and if given
time to develop Shem might make a
stayer rather than a sprinter. Sunlit,
second favorite for the race, was in a
cranky mood before the start, and dashed
away from the barrier on several occa-
sions. She showed speed in the early
part, but was a poor third at the finish.
E. E. Byrnes, whose racing activities
have alternated between bookmaking,
training and driving of trotters and the
preparation of gallopers, had his first
metropolitan win with Gambier in the
Ashbury Handicap. After a brilliant
sprint on race-morning Byrnes was con-
fident of success, but his hopes were
dampened when M. McCarten told him
that on Hawkesbury form he did not
think the gelding could win. Byrnes tried
an experiment that proved successful. He
told McCarten to get Gambier to the
front as soon as possible, instead of
allowing him to follow the leaders.
Gambier and Magic Ring were togethei
for the greater part of the race, but the
former slipped away approaching the
home turn, and won easily from the
favorite, Grey Derby.
An unplaced runner in the Ashbury
Handicap that is worth following is
Lucullus Lad, who was sent from Maori-
land by W. Devon to be trained at Rand-
wick by M. Poison. He lost a lot of
ground at the start, but was close to the
leaders at the end of two furlongs. As
he was in need of a race it was not sur-
prising that he stopped at the end, but
there was merit in his fourth.
Backers are becoming heartily sick of
supporting Benburb, who runs well
enough at every start to encourage back-
ing at his next appearance. On Saturday
he had the run of the race behind Novice
in the first division of the Progressive
Stakes, but when a finishing run was ex-
pected he just plodded on in second
place. Novice was a two-year-old winner
at Randwick last season when trained
by R. Skelton, but a couple of months
ago she was sold privately, and is now
trained by C. Rudd. There was not a
great deal of money for her on the
course, but starting-price bookmakers
reported that a commission had been
placed for her “in town.”
* * * *
Some horses can give a 71b. better per-
formance at one course than on another.
June is among these, as she proved by
her win in the Flying Handicap at
Moorefield on Saturday. It was her sixth
start on the track and her fifth win there.
Her only defeat at Moorefield was in a
mile race, when the distance was too far
for her, but judged on her finishing per-
formance at the end of six furlongs on
Saturday she might not be troubled by
a longer distance in the near future. With
a little more than two furlongs to go she
seemed to be in a hopeless position in
sixth place. Royal Ensign was a length
in front of her, and was galloping more
freely, but June seemed to catch the
leaders in a couple of strides, and had
plenty in hand at the finish.
* * * *
Backers are now able to get to work
on the “little double” of Villiers Stakes
and Summer Cup. Sedunum has earned
the 9.4 he has in the mile, and Delmestor
is not badly treated with a pound less,
though she would be better suited by a
furlong shorter. Fakenham has only 21b.
more than when he won last year, and is
likely to be at his best. Vergure is not
overweighted with 8.6, nor is Mildura
with 8.3, despite his spring failures.
Korimako has 7.13, against the 7.7 she
carried when second in the last Don-
caster, and, as she is a fair weight-carrier,
the additional 61b. should not seriously
trouble her. High Caste has 101 b. over
weight-for-age, and even with that would
run well, though I do not suppose any
certainty attaches to his being a starter.
Rodborough has 41b. less than allotted
him in the last Epsom Handicap, and
Binnia Hero, Valhalla, Baveon and
Diamond Wedding are worth noting.
Early Bird is doing well, but with 8.12
she is weighted up to her best. At this
stage my preference is for Korimako,
Fakenham and Mildura.
Respirator’s 9.9 should be enough to
cause him to drop out of the Summer
Cup. J. T. Jamieson’s stable has other
representatives in Round Up and Mala-
gigi, and the latter may be best worth
support, with 101 b. more than when third
in the Sydney Cup. Bristol must be given
a chance with 8.9, which is 51b. more than
FOR WARWICK FARM
(To be held at RANDWICK)
(By "PILOT.”)
Trial Hurdle Race: Belvoir, 1 ;
Exning, 2 ; Glaucus, 3.
Maiden Nursery Handicap (colts
and geldings), first division: The
Elk, 1 ; Columbus, 2; Welcome
News, 3.
Maiden Nursery (colts and geld-
ings), second division: Haran, 1 ;
Peruke, 2 ; Beauregard, 3.
Maiden Nursery Handicap (for
two-year-old fillies): Haridelle, 1 ;
Salmanna, 2 ; Many Ways, 3.
Flying Handicap: Denis, 1 ; June,
2 ; Disalto, 3.
Milperra Handicap: Breeze, 1 ;
Binnia Hero, 2 ; Boyfred, 3.
Encourage Handicap: John Peel;
1 ; Volpato, 2 ; High Dividend, 3.
Farm Welter Handicap: Post-
man, 1 ; Valhalla, 2; Fernacre, 3.
FOR EPSOM.
(To be run at Mentone.)
(By “SENTRY.”)
Cheltenham Hurdle Race: Atti-
cus, 1 ; Little Slam, 2; Dark
David, 3.
Murray Handicap: Sun Valley,
1 ; Paramon, 2; County, 3.
Epsom Cup: Fort Belvedere, 1 ;
Our Boy, 2 ; El Bruno, 3.
Tanti Handicap: Lord Wind-
burra, 1 ; Kanuri, 2 ; Magic Circle,
3.
Manumbar Handicap: Sir
Romeo, 1 ; El Reo, 2 ; Muraille, 3.
Parkdale Welter: Silver Collar,
1 ; Winterset, 2 ; My Boy, 3.


SAVE MONEY
fm si's
THRIFTY
1 i|nlto install
l l3i NEW
■
CHAMPIONS/
MS
SSg
Iff
m
An Empire product—made in Windsor, Canada
CHAMPIONS
Bring BETTER
HILL CLIMBING
Good hot sparks from Champion
spark plugs will give your ear the
kind of ignition it needs for a
smooth, even pull up a hill.
{ Champions allow less carbon to
form, so you get more speed,
more power, more economy.
Champions save you money!
F
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways of
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train —Lon-
don to Edinburgh. 39?
miles, in six hours.
York Minster.
TOUR BY THE BONBON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to—
BURNS. PHILP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street. Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
LIONEL IHliliY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
Hallistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the sport of shooting should avail themselvts to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
fsd
No. 43—COOEY ACE No. 1,
.22 calibre, bolt action, single
shot, for short, long or long-rifle.
Walnut stock; safety feature,
17in. barrel. Weight, ~, i-r
3£ib £l/7/6
Postage, 2/-; Other States, 37C.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD
S.S. RIFLE, MODEL 83, 22-cal.,
bolt action, 24in. round barrel,
gold bead front and ladder rear
|ig h,: weigt "; ' b ““ t £2/12/6
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action,
.22 calibre, rim-fire, 27in.
round blued steel barrel;
ladder rear sight; /< r- /
weight, s*lb.
Postage, 2/3; Other States. 4/-.
No. 10 STEVENS’
AUTOMATIC
REPEATING RIFLE,
MODEL 87, 22-cal.,
24in. round barrel, gold
bead front and ladder
rear sight, may be used
as automatic, repeater
or single shot. /rj ir*
Weight, 61b.
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. 3— HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
0.8.8. L. Gun, 12G., top lever bar
action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke,
rebounding locks, crossbolt, snap fore-
ind, half-pistol grip, walnut £■* c.ltC.l
stock * lb / lb /“
Carriage Paid.
No. 27—8.5. A. D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
SHOT GUN, Wildfowling Model, 12G.,
30in. barrels, both choke; nitro-
proof automatic safety chambered for
3in. cartridges; weight, / 1n /
Blb. X4L/IV/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 —FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip, 1/11/
nitro proof; weight, about 71b. **
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 A—FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
similar to No. 14, but very high-grade,
with ejector; weight, /.<«/,«/
about 71b IW/10/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges.
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
he successfully carried in Tattersall’s Cup.
Yours Truly, who recently won the New
Zealand Cup, is not badly treated with
8.0, but the chances are he will be re-
served until later in the season.
Young Crusader, second last year with
8.11, is down to 7.7, and a return to form
would make him a winner. On recent
running he cannot be recommended. Own
Folk, Kurrawid and Vestal are sure of
support, and Edible, Will Rogers and
Bringa have shown fair staying form. John
Peel, a promising three-year-old, has only
6.10, and Volpato is a staying possibility.
This week’s Randwick results may
cause an alteration of ideas, but those im-
pressing me at present are Bristol, Mala-
gigi, Own Folk, John Peel and Kurrawid.
A few years ago it seemed as if the
1000 mark in yearlings catalogued for
Sydney sales was a possibility. Breeding
was taken up by some people who did
not realise that it was not a business of
which everyone could make a success.
This was brought home to them when
they received considerably less for their
yearlings than it cost to put them in the
salering. They wisely dropped out. How-
ever, numbers are again on the up-grade,
and for the coming Easter sales William
Inglis and Son have catalogued 613 year-
lings against 519 last season. As usual,
P. Miller heads the list, his contribution
being 100. At that he is not far ahead
of H. S. Thompson, who is offering 73 on
his own account, and shares partnership
with P. C. Basche in 25 others. Numeri-
cally, the St. Aubins stud has stronger
representation than last year, its total hav-
ing gone up to 21. The F. W. Hughes
Pty. stud has advanced from one to
thirteen.
* * * *
It was thought the historic Newmarket
Town Plate, founded by King Charles 11.
in 1666, and run since without a break,
might not be decided this year, but it
duly took place in October. There were
nine runners, eight being ridden by
women, one of whom, Lady Mary
Fitzroy, traces back to Charles 11. Odds
of 5 to 4 were laid on Contrevent, last
year’s Cesarewitch winner. Suited by
the four miles he won, but by merely a
head, from Lord Derby’s Roanoke. The
only man who rode finished last. Con-
trevent was ridden by Miss Vera Bul-
lock, daughter of a well-known trainer,
Bert Bullock. Miss Bullock is a member
of the Women’s Auxiliary Air Force, and
had to get leave to get away in order to
ride in the race. Her uncle, W. Bullock,
won the Derby and Oaks on Signorinetta
in 1908, and rode winners in England this
season.
# * * *
At latest the French crack, Pharis 11.,
was still in England in charge of Steve
Donoghue. Whether he remained there
depended upon the class of races to be
run in that country next year. If it is
decided to retire Pharis 11. he will go
to M. Boussac’s stud in France. Eng-
land’s three-year-old champion, Blue
Peter, goes to the stud during the com-
ing season, his fee being 400gns. His
list, inclusive of some of his owner’s
mares, is restricted to 20, and all avail-
able subscriptions to him were quickly
snapped up. Rockfel, England’s best
three-year-old filly of 1938, also com-
mences at the stud next year. Unplaced
in a selling race at her first start at two
years, she won £22,094 at three.
* * * *
Several English teams were sent to
Ireland early in October. They were
welcomed as sure to increase interest in
racing in the latter country. It was
thought possible, however, that the
visitors might overwhelm the Irish horses,
and, to combat that, the Irish Turf Club
decided that two races a day at all meet-
ings under its rules should be restricted
to horses premanently trained in Ireland.
* * * *
Last year the Kirkham Stakes was
won by a filly, Waireka, who, starting at
5 to 4 on, beat Esperanto a neck. This
year’s race also looks like going to a
filly, Dark Elegance, who has not in-
curred a penalty for her three wins, and
therefore has a decided pull over most
of her probable opponents. Without
further stressing the fortunate position
of Dark Elegance, perhaps a slight
alteration of Kirkham Stakes conditions
would be a good idea. As they now
stand the winner of one race of the value
of £4OO incurs 51b. extra, but, providing
that sum is not reached in any, a
youngster can win three or four races,
totalling considerably over that amount,
without being penalised. It seems to
me that, as in some other races, the
aggregate value of wins should be taken
into account.
* * * *
Spring racing further emphasised what
a great part luck plays in the purchase of
yearlings. Of the hundreds sold in Syd-
ney and Melbourne in the autumn of
1938 only Reading has pretensions to be
a first-class three-year-old. Dashing
Cavalier (700gns.), though a Victoria
Derby placegetter, is far from a top-
notcher, but there is likelihood of Spear
Chief’s brother, Spearvale, who was sold
in Brisbane for 750gns., being above the
average. Turning to Maoriland-bred
three-year-olds neither Beaulivre nor
High Caste was offered at auction, and,
though winner of three races in Mel-
bourne last season, Wilson (1050gns) has
not come up to expectations at three
years. Beau Vite, despite his failures in
some races in Sydney and Melbourne,
has not been a bad investment at 900gns.
Ajax, the best of Australia’s older
horses, did not go into the sale ring as a
yearling, and Defaulter made only
170gns. at that age. Royal Chief, an-
other of the best, realised 160gns. as a
yearling. Good horses are most desirable
property, but the odds are against even
the best judge of bloodstock selecting a
yearling that is sure to prove one.
•1’
The war is playing havoc with breeders,
big and little, in England. Some of the
smaller ones are likely to be put out of
business, and those more prominent are
reducing the fees of their stallions. For
the coming season Lord Glanely has cut
his St. Leger winners, Singapore and
Chulmleigh, down to £9B from the £l4B
at which they were originally advertised
for next year.
* * * *
Last year Fakenham, second favorite
for the Villiers Stakes, defeated the favor-
ite, Bradford, after a great finish. Faken-
ham was out of the winning list from
then until he scored at Hawkesbury last
week. Some horses race better at certain
periods of the year than at others, and
the summer may suit Fakenham. Now
that he has again shown form he is likely
to be in demand for the coming Villiers.
On the whole, the Villiers Stakes has
not been a bad race for the books over
the last 15 years, winners and their prices
being as follows:
1924 Balbus, 7.5, 25 to 1.
1925 Hemisphere, 8.0, 7 to 2.
1926 Queen Alwyne, 6.10, 25 to 1.
1927 Zuleika, 7.3, 8 to 1.
1928 — Reonui, 8.11, 8 to 1.
1929 Habashon, 7.9, 14 to 1.
1930 Pavilion, 7.10, 5 to 2.
1931 High Disdain, 8.9, 12 to 1.
1932 — Magnetic, 8.2, 9 to 4.
1933 Closing Time, 9.5, 12 to 1.
1934 Bachian, 7.9, 16 to 1.
1935 Golden Chance, 7.2, 8 to 1.
1936 King's Head, 8.10, 8 to 1.
1937 Ramdin, 7.12, 10 to 1.
1938 Fakenham, 8.3, 7 to 2.
Beaten favorites during the period covered
were: Lovesign, 4 to 1 ; Vaals, 6 to 4 ;
Don Moon, 5 to 2 ; Karuma, 2 to 1 ;
Ruffler, 4 to 1 ; Cathmar, 4 to 1 ; Bill
Wedgewood, 4 to 1 ; Turbine, 9 to 2 ;
Windbird, 6to 4; Mananui, 3 to 1 ; Sal
Volatile, 7 to 1 ; and Bradford, 6 to 4.
m * * *
Exportation of Australian racehorses
has fallen off so much since the outbreak
of war that a Sydney agent, who usually
sends upwards of 300 horses a year to
Eastern ports, has shipped only one in
the last month. Curtailment of racing,
coupled with increased freight and
scarcity of shipping space, has been the
trouble. Freight to Singapore has risen
from £l5 to £26. Another source of
trade that has been cut off is the ship-
ment of horses abroad on the chance of
selling them on arrival at their destina-
tion. No horse can leave Australia now
unless it has been bought and paid for
by an importer.
* * * *
It was announced shortly after the
outbreak of war that the Aga Khan pur-
posed selling his breeding-farms in France
and Ireland, and the horses he had in
training. It is therefore certain he was
keeping possible American buyers in
mind when, at the end of October, he
entered his two-year-olds Stardust, Bashur
and Moradabad for the American Derby
to be run at Washington Park (Chicago)
next year. It will be remembered that
the Aga Khan sold his Derby winner
Blenheim to an American syndicate at
a high price. His son, Prince Aly Khan,
has also nominated Tant Mieux and
Turkhan for the American Derby, which
carries £A 10,000 added money. The
Aga Khan has also made entries for next
season’s £A4OOO Washington Park Futur-
ity, a two-year-old race. In America it
was anticipated that several English
owners would send horses to that country
next year, but that is unlikely now that
racing in England is not to be cut down
to the extent at first anticipated.
* * * *
It is easy to be in agreement with a
writer who, in a contemporary, pointed
out that the prohibition of the issue of
betting charts on important races was
carrying the law a little too far. Still,
it is the law, and must be observed.
Double charts do greatly help in creat-
ing interest in Australia’s biggest handi-
caps. It may be very wrong, but there
is no' getting away from the fact that,
without betting, racing, which is one of
this country’s sizable industries, would
quickly languish, and the employment of
many thousands who are directly and in-
directly connected with it would neces-
sarily be affected.
In the matter of gambling all Govern-
mpnts are somewhat inconsistent. In
N.S.W. the Government gets a great
revenue from betting, but before a race
the price at which a horse is quoted must
not be mentioned. On the other hand,
the papers give full Stock Exchange
quotations of stocks and shares. Of
course, it can be stressed that people in-
vesting in those are helping the country’s
industries. Perhaps so, but it seems to
me that most investors are betting on the
rise or fall of shares, without being actu-
ally interested in the industries concerned.
Then, again, while the issue of a betting
chart is an offence, the Government lot-
tery office is open six days a week for the
sale of tickets. Anyhow, the suppres-
sion of gambling of all kinds is impos-
sible. A bet, either on a horse race or


Made by
“BERNARD -
MOTEURS”
SURESNES-SEINE
FRANCE
f
electric lighting
end POWER PLANTS
6-volt, 150 watts. 12-volt, 300 watts. 32-volt, 1000 watts.
(Air-cooled) (Air-cooled) (Radiator-cooled)
Enjoy the Luxury of dependable Eight and
I ower at a surprisingly low cost.
Steady, flickerless, trouble free, economical
service to make your home and business life
more pleasant and profitable. We have
over 100 small Lighting Plants in stock;
no delay in delivery. Trade inquiries
solicited.
Shouting 2 h.p. French “Bernard”
Engine Coupled to 32-volt 1000-
ui<i,tt D.C. Generator.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS Pfy., Limited
53 North George Street, Sydney.
You can’t go wrong
if you give him
GILLETTE
A
i>MiB
%
m
m
>:2
*
Me
8
t :-5 v>>.
* n
mm
m#
m
HP*
& e
sy
in
mi
<&■ >:
&
<xi&-
When you give a man a Gillette Shaving Set you give
him something he will be really grateful for . . .
luxurious, efficient shaving every day of his life. The time
was never more opportune to give him a new razor.
Choose one of the many Gillette sets which, for Christmas,
are packed in gay cartons. Prices range from 1/9 to 45/-.
No. 45 SET. Contains the new
Gillette 'one-piece’ Razor (Pop-
til ar Model) —no loose parts,
no separate pieces to assemble
complete in blue hygienic
moulded case with three Blue
Gillette Blades .. Price 8/6.
Managing Agents:
PHIPSON & COMPANY
(PTY) LTD.
181 Clarence Street, Sydney.
■O5
Gut
nte
l
MEN OF SELF-RESPECT SHAVE WITH GILLETTE
the Stock Exchange, or an interest in
a lottery ticket adds spice to the life
of a great proportion of our population.
* * * *
The stain on Maikai’s character is
removed. His trainer says he does not
drink spirituous liquors. If his inclina-
tion- did run that way there are many
who backed him for the Williamstown
Cup and Eclipse Stakes who would not
mind giving him a Christmas treat in
the way of a barrel of beer or a case
of whisky. A Sydney stipendiary steward
points out that the A.J.C. debars the
administration of drugs or stimulants
either on or off a racecourse, but surely
he does not believe that all trainers abso-
lutely observe that rule in treatment of
horses.
It reminds me there have been trainers
with a weakness for “tonics,” one in
gredient being specially favored. One
day a lad was complaining that sparrows
were a pest at the stable where he
worked, and was surprised when another
lad remarked “There’s none at our
place.” “How do you manage it?”
queried lad No. 1. “Well,” was the
reply, “my boss is strong on ‘tonics,’
and when the sparrows peck at our
horses’ droppings they roll over and die.'
* * * *
Challedon continues to prove himself
America’s outstanding three-year-old of
this season. At Keeneland (Lexington)
in October he added the Tranter Purse,
9j furlongs, to his wins, and made a
world’s record of 1.54 3-5. As he carried
8.8, and was easing up when he passed
the winning-post four lengths ahead of
the second horse, it was a remarkable
performance from a time standpoint.
First money was £A1075,- and made his
three-year-old earnings approximately
£A42,000, and for the Whole of his
career £59,000. He has won 11 of the
19 races in which he has started. Accord-
ing to the “Thoroughbred Record,”
Challedon is a tall colt, being nearly
16.2, with great shoulders, but is not
heavily built.
M.Q. and Rafferty
With the annual winter baboon in-
vasion at last over, stoush comes more
into its own. Last week it was plentiful,
of the hard and willing variety. About
the neatest scrap was the meeting of
Liam Wilson and J. Crisafi at Rush-
cutter Bay for the N. S. Wales amateur
bantam title, Liam winning by topnotch
boxing over the three rounds. Crisafi
a fearless little cove—put up a dogged
show. At the close of the night’s hos-
tilities these were the title-holders: Scrap-
pers: L. Feighan (flyweight), L. Wilson
(bantam), S. Smellie (feather), W. Davis
(light), A. Kell (welter), F. David
(middle), B. J. Brown (light-heavy), R.
Norval (heavy). Grapplers: A. N. Buck
(flyweight), J. Hansen (bantam), K. Scan-
lon (feather), A. P. Jones (light), L. Turn-
bull (welter), G. Erickson (middle), J.
Reilly (light-heavy), J. Knight (heavy).
* * * *
At North Sydney Hockey Bennell
(10.3), the Australian welter champion,
took a decision over Bluey Davis (10.7)
from a foul in the fourth round.
* * * *
At Carlton Bobby Clarke (10.1 IF) met
Ern Clingan (10.13 F) for the “junior
middleweight championship,” and they
turned on a sterling 12-rounder. Per-
haps on the principle that both merited
honor for putting up such a rattling
good fight, Joe Wallis called it a draw,
though Clarke appeared to win it.
* * * *
At Leichhardt George Elliott (9.2) put
Ray Haddigan (9.1) through a torrid 12
rounds, George winning easily
* * * *
At Sydney Arena Hughie Dwyer, who’s
as well up in fight showmanship as he
formerly was in the more active part
of the game, opened a promised season
with a match between Allan Westbury
(10.7 J) and Jimmy Purcell (10.9) —
Purcell looked more. Westbury lived up
to his Newcastle repute, winning well.
Purcell failed to get going. Still, a good
hard fight.
* * * *
Kui Kong Young (8.6 f), well rested
from the doing Jackie Wilson gave him
in Sydney, took a points decision over
A 1 Brown (8.9) at West Melbourne.
Nineteenth Hole
(By JIM FERRIER .)
o Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
To become reasonably good at the
game a golfer is called upon frequently
to use his No. 2, 3 and 4 irons, and if
he is at all doubtful as to the result
the stroke is rarely successful. Some
golfers are not at all comfortable with
the No. 2 iron in their hands. Given a
long shot to the green, they are often
worried into making a mishit.
It has been truly said that the sound
shot is the greatest shot in golf. With
the driver the ball is teed up and may
land safely on any part of the fairway ;
but with the greens well trapped and on
the small side it is a difficult task to
reach them with a long iron shot. Long
iron play calls for two vital features —
power and accuracy. Generally speak-
ing, one has to lose accuracy to gain
power, and vice versa, but with the
stronger iron clubs power and accuracy
have to be blended together.
It is surprising how few good players
ever really master their long irons. In
modern golf, with most of the par-four
holes well over 400 yards in length, the
leading players are forced to concentrate
on their iron shots to be reasonably sure
of putting for their birdies at such holes.
There have been remarkably few out-
standing iron players in the last few years.
The late R. K. Lee-Brown, who was a
member of the Australian Club in Syd-
ney, was, to my mind, the best iron player
among Australian golfers. Slight in
build and short in stature, Lee-Brown
was just as deadly with his No. 2 and 3
irons as the average good golfer with
short iron shots.
Iron play needs much practice. The
margin of error with a straight-faced
iron is much greater than with lofted
clubs. The smallest error is magnified
immensely when the shot is played with
a No. 2 iron. After much experimenting
during the past few years I have dis-
covered that to play successfully with
long irons I must use practically the
same swing as for the wooden clubs. The
grip is the same, but I alter my stance
slightly, opening it a little more, and
the ball is taken an inch further back
toward the right foot. It is always a
sound idea to remember that with iron
shots the club should hit down on to the
ball. The divot should be taken from the
spot where the ball lay, and not before
the ball is reached. If the divot be
taken too early the result will be either
a topped or duffed shot.
Before I went abroad about three
years ago I was not as accurate with my
iron clubs as I wanted to be, and during
the tour I closely watched the overseas
professionals and learnt one point from
them that helped me greatly. In my
swing then I used to pay little attention
as to how I started my club on the back-
swing, and usually it left the back of the
ball fairly suddenly and was pulled away
immediately in towards the body. Here
lay my trouble. I noticed that the pros,
always took the clubhead away straight
back from the ball for about seven or
eight inches in a deliberate manner before
swinging it away into the backswing.
This movement, together with a more
upright swing—which meant I had to
stand closer to the ball —made a big dif-
ference. It turned my round-the-body
swing into a much more compact and
powerful stroke, capable of applying the
punch necessary to iron shots.
By swinging in this way long iron
shots ceased to trouble me. When I
swung down and through the ball the
clubhead was kept on the line of flight
for a longer period, both going back and
coming through, thus reducing the chance
of error. By standing in closer to the
ball there is less body turn, or pivot,
than with the wooden clubs. As the
swing is not a sweeping one, care should
be taken to keep the wrists firm always
so as to stop the clubhead from turning
when striking the ball.
One must always remember that the
head should be kept steady, and the hit
downwards. Many golfers are unable to
get the ball up with the straighter-faced
irons because they develop a sway in
their shots —traceable to the head mov-
ing during the backswing. Handicap
golfers are nearly all weak iron players,
especially with the long irons, and many
prefer to use a spoon rather than the
No. 2 iron. This state of mind arises
mainly from lack of confidence. To
regain confidence, there is nothing better
than to get half a dozen balls and prac-
tise the No. 2 iron, concentrating upon
swinging straight back from the ball and
following powerfully through the stroke.
* * * *
Harry Williams, the left-handed Vic-
torian, left on Saturday to tour the Philip-
pine Islands with N. Von Nida, and the
experience gained should be invaluable
to him. Many thought Williams would
take the opportunity to turn professional
during the trip, but he’s sticking to his
amateur status. Von Nida has an ex-
cellent chance of doing the hat-trick in
the P.I. open championship; it has
brought him £5OO in each of the last
two years.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee.”)
South Australia is not likely to make
any changes in the winning eleven against
Victoria for the meeting with New South
Wales. The new man, T. Klose, came
to light with a top score of 80 when
runs were needed in the first innings, and
all the other batsmen are seasoned, and,
therefore, none can be discarded for a
single failure. F. W. Ward needs only
one wicket to complete his hundred in
the Sheffield Shield. His wickets have
been more costly than those of his
henchman, C. V. Grimmett, who has
taken 472, and who rarely misses a good
haul against New South Wales. The
Sheffield Shield holders have a sound
team, though the attack needs balance.
If they could only unearth some young
one with the George Giffen stamp of
all-round excellence ; the Australian team
needs, some one of the kind also.
Bradman has already notched over the
1000 runs against Victoria for both N. S.
Wales and South Australia. For the one
he averaged 144, for the other 77; for
N.S.W. he was seven times not out.
C. L. Badcock rattled together 143
against the Colts in Adelaide on Satur-
day. .He’s gradually getting into trim.
In New South Wales two or three
changes from the winning eleven at Bris-
bane were anticipated. Two new bowlers,
A. Roper and J. Walsh, are in. V. Jack-
son and J. G. Lush nearly made it.
(Continued on next page.)


WHEREVER YOU GO THIS SUMMER
✓
• ■
Camping, motoring, yachting, picnicking, wherever you go
or whatever you do outdoors this summer, take a 1.4 volt
Portable radio along! The ideal companion tor outdoor
days. You can carry and use it anywhere because it needs no
outside aerial, no power point or plug. Just put it down, switch
it on, and tune in to your favourite station. You don't even
have to worry about accumulators because models are
equipped with dependable Eveready dry batteries, the
smoothest and most economical source of power for both
portable and country radio receivers ... k
Most set manufacturers have produced special
1.4 volt portable models, lighter, more convenient
and more compact than anything you have ever
seen. A few are shown below. Others can be
seen at almost any radio dealer s showrooms.
Ak mt
mm
1. FISK RADIOLA “Portable
Five.” 5-valve Broadcast. 18
gns. (1 gn. higher in W.A.)
mm
L. TASMAPORT. Model 676;
valve Broadcast Portable. 17 gns.
(1 guinea higher in W.A.)
3. HOTPOINT BANDMASTER.
Model A7SMB ; 5-valve Broadcast
Portable. Price .... 18 guineas.
(1 guinea higher in. 1&.A.)
i- * l
■
j»yygi
Sit
mmm&M
mmmm
mm
#
7. AIRZONE. Model
457; 4-valve Broad-
cast ... 16 guineas
(£l7/10/- In W.A.)
6. STROMBERG-
CARLSON. Model
PD4O; 4-valve Broad*
cast . Price y 16 gns.
(1 guinea higher in
W.A.)
im
i
- <
4. S.T.C. Model 510} 5*
valve Broadcast •
5. BREVILLE. Modells6}
4-valve Broadcast , 16 gns*
(1 guinea higher in Q’ld. t
S.A. and W.A.I
P 38-1203
ed
eVEREADy
trade - MARK
sdf
EVEREADY (AVST.) PTY . LTD., SYDNEY ,
Roper, the Petersham fast bowler, is
a powerful young fellow, a six-footer,
very thick in build. He astonished the
trial-match crowds by the character of
his batting, putting together 42 not out
in first-class style with one long lusty leg-
on hit for six, to show that there is kick
in his bat. With the ball he was steady
and fast, but found it difficult to keep
on the right side of the crease. He
bowled four no-balls that were not
scored from.
In the trial match Jackson made an
attractive 66 and bowled slow to medium
shrewdly and accurately, with an occa-
sional surprising break-back from the off.
Besides, he was among the best of a sur-
prisingly good lot of fieldsmen.
Ginty Lush has filled out slightly.
There’s no suggestion of halt in his run
now, and he’s improved in direction and
length ; further, he’s a neat free-moving
batsman. It was Lush who flashed into
the limelight three years back by break-
ing up the English batting with 6 for
43 and 7 for 72 from his fast stuff, besides
he top-scored with 49 in the first innings.
It was a whirlwind effort not given to
many, even the greatest, to link with
their names.
Left-hander Walsh turned the ball
quite well either way, but at the start he
ran into McCabe in scoring mood. Later,
slower-footed batsmen found him
troublesome. In M.L. with Cahn Walsh
took 50 wickets at 14 runs apiece.
* * * *
Stan McCabe has completed his
thousand runs against Queensland, at 66
per innings. The feat has been long
delayed, but from 1933 to 1937 McCabe
stood out of six consecutive matches
with Queensland. His centuries are 161,
229 and 119. He also stood out of
seven matches with South Australia and
six of the last eight with Victoria.
* * * *
If one or two Victorians who were
unavailable at Adelaide come into the
team Queensland will run up against a
strong, well-knit combination. R. G.
Gregory would add even more solidity
to a team that earned well-merited praise
for its sustained fight against South Aus-
tralia. New men G. Tamlyn and I. John-
son got runs in both innings, and Sievers
now may continue forcing the pace with
his hefty driving.
* * * *
G. Dennis captured 8 for 4 on a bad
wicket for Melbourne Colts v. Haw-
thorn-East Melbourne on Saturday.
Hawthorn totalled 16, the lowest ever
in pennant games. In Sydney premier-
ship the lowest total was 10 by Alberts
against Carlton in 1887 on the Associa-
tion Ground. Under the present district
club system North Sydney made 14
against Petersham many years ago;
fast bowler Jack Scott, better known
these times as Test umpire, secured 6
for 7 and Tom Andrews, the batting
stylist, 3 for 6.
* * * * *
With J. Ellis sound again Queensland
will have strengthened attack to meet
Victoria. In the view of Brisbane men
the loss of his bowling cost the side the
New South Wales match. It looked so.
But in coming matches the batsmen will
need to do better Brown can tca ry
more than his share, S , '
Against Victoria he has scored close on
80 per innings for Q Rrisbane
South Wales. Last seaso nntcb ed
he ran to 215, and in Sydney he notched
205.
. . ctcirc
In Melbourne now the tennis stars are
still working hard showing oft the Davis
Cup and their strokes There were mter-
State matches before the Victorian cham-
pionships, N.S.W. against “.. vie.
against S.A. and N.S.W. against Victoria,
N. S. Wales won both its matches, losing
only two rubbers, both to Victoria. Vic-
toria didn’t lose a rubber to S.A. .
It was rum ored—and quickly denied—
the LT A bat j CO me down with a
ban on players appearing in possible ex-
hibitions for the Red Cross or the like.
Overwork was given as the reason. The
position is somewhat obscure, though it
appears players are to be allowed six
more exhibition matches m addition to
the normal dozen each year , that to meet
all contingencies.


STi
THE.
AT
wwwmn.m
SAEICUS PARISIAN PUPPETS.
Amazing-—Unbelievable.
NEW OVERSEA VARIETY STxVRS.
THE WOKID-FAMOUB MIEES BROS.,
4 Bo.vs and a Guitar.
GEO. WAEEACE & NEW VARIETY
STARS.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
Hollywood and “The Wizard
Aldous Huxley once wrote a learned
essay attacking “the cultured infantilism
of this age.” He suggested that Swnt,
the savage satirist, and Barrie, the whim-
sical escapist, were actuated by funda-
mentally the same detestation of ordi-
nary existence, and that Swifts direct,
attack was both morally and artistically
the better reaction. Seeing himself as
a sort of watchdog of the intellect, Hux-
ley was horrified at the spectacle of adult
minds seeking refuge from reality by a
return to childhood.
If the talkies start to flood the theatres
with full-length “Snow Whites and
“Wizards of Ozzes” Huxley will have
another chance for agitation. From the
sociological viewpoint, though it alt
sounds very highbrow, Huxley may be
right. In Sydney at the moment theatre-
goers have the choice of a perfect escape
from reality in “The Wizard of Oz” or
a direct statement of the contemporary
situation in “The Lion Has Wings.
Facts have to be faced in war-time, so
that Huxley (an odd situation for a paci-
fist) is probably very wise when he says,
in effect, skip the wizard and see what
the R.A.F. has to offer.
Even in peace the advice would be
sound if the talkies overworked the
escapes into infancy. With brows sen-
sibly lower than Huxley’s, the public
could approve of one Peter Pan panto-
mime, one Christopher Robin book, an
occasional “Snow White” or ‘ Wizard.
Too many of them would be boring, and
if they weren’t boring they’d mean a
lowering of intellectual standards. Ad-
mitting that a little childishness is good,
there’s a pretty generous supply of it
already in the “shorts”—“Our Gang”
comedies and Disney’s delightful quarter-
hours. . .
Apart from the Huxley side of it,
Hollywood’s branching out into fantasy
has been the most pleasant of surprises.
There are no discernible “trends” as yet.
“Snow White” and “The Wizard” are a
movement towards infantilism ; but the
Gilsullivan “Mikado” was a fantasy
based on satire of which Swift what-
ever he thought of the crooner —could
not have disapproved ; “Ferdinand,” the
strangest production of them all, was at
once a fairytale for children, a satire and
a variation of the music-halls’ oldest joke
—the effeminate male.
After seeing “The Wizard” you realise
how much of “Snow White” was decora-
tion. Disney and Hollywood were out
to show how charming the films could
be, and every one of those little birds
and animals bore an invisible label, See
how charming I am.” “The Wizard” is
an improvement; in the scenic effects
and in the materialisations of the good
and bad witches there is just as much
decoration, but it is more relevant to the
story ; the mass scenes are decoration of
a type accepted in all pantomimes and
musicomedies. It scores heavily over
“Snow White,” too, in the use of living
figures, ingeniously made-up, instead of
drawings ; it is just as fantastically beau-
tiful, but there is none of that appalling
flatness and occasional stiffness of move-
ment that reduced “Snow White” from
the level of a new art form to a pleas-
ing curiosity.
All the talkies have to do now, to
please both Swift and Barrie, the adult
mind and the child, is to produce Gulli-
ver’s Travels. The idea is said to be
under consideration.
* * * *
“The Lion Has Wings”
Though it shows England to strong
advantage and attacks Hitler with vigor,
this length of war-time propaganda,
showing at Sydney Embassy, is a pretty
poor reflection on the ingenuity of British
film studios. . ,
It’s most unlikely that it will help
create any wave of enthusiastic patriot-
ism. Propaganda that is recognisable as
such defeats its own object—the public
has had and heard so much of it that
it is immediately suspicious of any form
of advertising.
The main object of war-time propa-
ganda is, or should be, to encourage the
martial spirit until the war is won. In
that respect such films as “Beau Geste,
“The Four Feathers,” “The Drum” and
others were much better propaganda than
“The Lion Has Wings.”
A few bits of the film —the actual raid
by British ’planes on Wilhelmshaven and
Brunsbuttel in particular—are good. The
air raid scenes are entertaining and,
therefore, better propaganda; nothing is
more likely to bring in air force recruits
than pictures of some of the R.A.F. per-
sonnel bombing enemy ships and shoot-
ing down enemy ’planes with, apparently,
the greatest of ease and enjoyment. There
is an interesting explanation of air-raid
precautions on the British coast and of
the wonderfully organised system that
controls them.
If the film had been confined within
these limits, instead of being decorated
with long rapturings over the English
countryside and with the unnecessary
presence of Merle Oberon and Ralph
Richardson, it would have been more
satisfactory from every point of view.
As it stands it might be a collection of
Study in stances at Sydney Royal. Marjorie Gordon and Edwin Styles (with
whiskers ) stand up like pukka sahibs under the inspection, of international spy
Paul Vernon, in “Under Your Hat.”
poorly-connected newsreels littered with
such inaccuracies as Germans raiding
England in English ’planes, and, what is
more, apparently changing ’planes several
times during their crossing of the North
Sea.
If films are to play a part in the war
they would do much better by provid-
ing good entertainment instead of too
obvious propaganda.
sjc * *
“The Underpup”
Hollywood’s habit of crediting
juveniles with the mentality and hab.ts
of adults is painfully emphasised in th.s
current Sydney State offering. There’s
a horde of youngsters who, being mil-
lionaires’ daughters, can do whatever
they please and do it by providing them-
selves with a luxurious holiday resort
where they can display the utmost in-
solence towards their servants and make
themselves as generally objectionable as
could be imagined. The poor dears, it
is explained, have been neglected by
their parents, or, in other words, haven't
had the seats of their pants thumped
often enough.
Into this objectionable collection
comes a slum cheild who, brought theie
on charity, is at first browbeaten by her
superiahs until she patches a million-
aire’s domestic troubles, arranges
romance for both the angular spinster
and her young offsider who conduct the
resort, administers corrective beltings and
like treatments to neglected heiresses,
and performs sundry other miracles
about the place. After that she is ad-
mitted to the Purple Order of Painted
Penguins or something and taken to the
collective bosom of the wealthy brats.
Gloria Jean as the slum cheild is
heralded as a new Deanna Durbin, but
has neither the vivacity, voice nor
the small histrionic ability of the latter.
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Yes, My Darling Daughter”
“Elizabeth the Queen” had a brief
reign at Sydney Minerva. She was suc-
ceeded by a determinedly modern
maiden, troubled about her parents’
reactions to a week-end she proposes
to spend with her fiance.
Mother, having carried the banner of
women’s rights in her youth, can’t object
much. Father, banker and a model of
convention, learns the awful truth too
late to do anything but rage ineffectively.
Daughter’s earnest young man is the
only one seriously troubled.
Seen recently as a film, the story had
some highly diverting passages. The
scenarists introduced an extra character,
mother’s mother, to give point to the
dilemma which now faces her daughter,
and they relied on her, as portrayed by
May Robson, to provide most of the
laughs. And the dialogue, apart from
that given the grandmother, was polished
all round.
On the stage it is a comedy of situa-
tion rather than of dialogue, and the
situation once stated shortly ceases to
be amusing. It would need quick-moving
brittle dialogue to carry it along, and
it contains little that is new of its kind.
The week-end which forms the crux
of the whole trouble is passed over dur-
ing an interval between acts.
Jane Conolly makes daughter’s prob-
lems very real, and Marie Burke does a
neat job as the harassed mother. She
doesn’t come to life as a person, but
that’s not necessary. The others have
been badly treated by the playwright.
They’ve little to do, and they do it dis-
interestedly. lan Keith is an author-
publisher, once Mother’s lover, a visitor
over the fateful week-end. In the filmed
version, and with infinitely better
material, Roland Young relished the
possibilities for humor in the part. Doris
Packer, a vital and tragic Elizabeth for
a fortnight, is a divorcee with the ex-
perience of three marriages, yet still
searching for true romance one of
dozens of stage divorcees. Lloyd Lamble
is the embarrassed young man, and
Harvey Adams the would-be heavy
father.
* * V
J. C. Williamson’s brought “The
Arcadians” out of their stable for a brief
run at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, on
Saturday before a packed pavilion. The
ancient bromide proved a surprisingly
entertaining stayer considering that it
is a quarter of a century old, i.e., 24
years past the prime for musical comedy.
Tommy Jay, as the jockey Peter Doody,
shook some laughs out of his audience
but tended to flog his mount a trifle.
Rex Simplicitas Dawe was consistently
funny, and Albert Chappell and Joy
Parsons contributed two pairs of light
feet to the proceedings. Mary Dempster,
as Sombra, evoked frequent plaudits for
her singing but lacked the requisite
abandon for a musicomedy leading lady.
With Fred Quintrell conducting and Alan
Chapman directing, a good show re-
sulted, and the choruses were well up
to the J.C.W. standards.
* * * *
Quite the best means of musical edu-
cation ever used in Australia are
A.B.C.’s “young people’s concerts.”
There was one in Sydney Town Hall on
an afternoon last week. Prof. Bernard
Heinze, who obviously enjoys the dual
role, was compere and conductor. With
a fair-sized orchestra under his control
he took an audience of school children
and other youngsters through Schubert’s
“Unfinished,” giving an admirably clear
analysis of instrumentation and thematic
material.
The first movement from Mozart’s D
Minor Pianoforte Concerto (K. 466) had
as soloist young Kathleen Herbert, who
shaped very well. An orchestration of
Weber’s “Invitation to the Waltz” was a
good introducton to music of the pro-
grammatic sort, and a setting of Alfred
Hill’s most popular song “Waiata Poi”
was enlivened with castanet effects a little
more vigorous than the “gentle tapping”
mentioned in the ditty.
In the rest of the programme the
audience was allowed to participate by
singing, and did so with zeal. “Hark
the Herald Angels Sing,” “The Marseil-
laise” and “Land of Hope and Glory”
(as introduced in No. 1 of Elgar’s “Pomp
and Circumstance” march suite) were
the well-chosen vocal exercises.
* * * *
The first of the annual series of
memorial concerts donated to Melbourne
by the late Sidney Myer
produced a good attendance
and an excellent perform-
ance at the Town Hall last
week. But it is an unfor-
tunate characteristic of sub-
sidised art that it tends to
become conservative, and
the programme presided
over by Prof. Bernard
Heinze was as stereotyped
as most of the programmes
were last year. Dvorak’s
“New World” Symphony,
Vaughan Williams’s “A
Norfolk Rhapsody,” Elgar’s
“Pomp and Circumstance”
and the “Barber of Seville”
overture are all admirable
music, but there is no appar-
ent reason why the com-
mittee which has the fund at
its disposal could not be
more adventurous. Sidney
Myer was adventurous in
business or he would never
have run anything bigger
than a little second-hand
business in Bendigo. Why
can’t musicians be as ven-
turesome in music? Nance
Osborne sang “Solveig’s
Song” by Grieg, the “Bell
“Song” of Delibes and an aria from
“The Marriage of Figaro” brilliantly.
* * * *
Pianist Ethel Parnham, whom war has
stayed from continuing her studies
abroad, gave a recital at Melbourne
Assembly Hall. There was sensi-
tiveness in her playing of the Bach
Chromatic Fantasia and Fugue and in
the Schumann Sonata in G Minor, and
she showed more than ordinary qualities
in her attack on a mixed panel that in-
cluded works by Brahms and Cesar
Franck. Aria prize-winner Frances
Forbes assisted with her contralto notes.
Artbursts.
George Bell, the high priest of the
modern movement in Melbourne, has
closed his school and decided to give
up teaching. As a valedictory tribute
the pupils he has let loose on the com-
munity are showing the results of his
tutelage in a crowded exhibition at the
Athenaeum. “The visitor will have an
opportunity to see how varied is the
expression of these painters,’ says a
foreword to the catalogue. What struck
this commentator, on the contrary, was
that many of the exhibitors paint ex-
traordinarily like one another. Some of
the canvases look pleasant enough.
* * * *
The year’s final show at Adelaide
Society of Arts gallery is by Lisette
Kohlhagen. She is remarkably versatile ;
better in black-and-white than in color;
better perhaps in portrait than in land-
scape ; and possibly best in architecture.
Her wood and lino cuts have a wide
appeal.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL, SPRINGWOOD.
i jSB
v. M
I
Hsfe
feC •*sLiifrr r .^/^l
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S’pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
drantutar
ifnus?
The School has a Boarding Side, established in 1927,
conducted under the direction of the Trustees by
a School House Board. Early application for 1940
is essential. Apply for Prospectus to: —
THE HEADMASTER
COLLEGE STREET ,
SYDNEY.
BRANDAIIERrS
Sfe
m
o''
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BRA.NDA.UKR * CO. Ltd. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
W.V
PENS
Personal and Missing Friends.
IN THE ESTATE OF WILLIAM ALLSE-
BROOK, late of Hobart in Tasmania,
painter and paperhanger, deceased.
WILL BINGHAM CHARLES ALLSE-
BROOK, a son of the abovenamed deceased,
who was last heard of in Queensland about 16
or 18 years ago, please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE OF TASMANIA, Hobart?
A WOMANS
LETTER
Lord Mayor’s Day got off to a flying
start with the march of the Second A.I.F.
through the city. How splendidly these
2,000 swung down the noble length of
Bridge-street from Macquarie-street! In
the last war a poet named Masefield
hymned the praises of the Anzacs. What
writer will immortalise himself and this
Second A.I.F. ? Spirited bands and the
gallant bearing of the soldiers gave a zest
to spending, and the girls in the city
swapped their badges, their gardenias
and their raffle tickets for a small moun-
tain of silver. Money poured in. There
was a merry-go-round in Martin-place
and a ferris wheel stood up among the
skyscrapers near Elizabeth-street.
Everywhere were stalls under whose
bright awnings all manner of arts and
crafts, fancy goods and useful things
for the pantry were stacked. You could
have your fortune told, have a fling at
housie-housie, or lose a fortune on the
chocolate wheels ; and the hand of the
law didn’t pounce. But prosperous citi-
zens were arrested and brought before
Judge George Wallace (you know George
Wallace, the man of fun). Their captors,
pretty girls sworn in, apparently, as
special constabulary, stood by without a
tear while they were fined anything from
10s. to £5 on laugh-raising charges.
Mayor Nock was fined £5 for making
too good a job of the day.
Liked all the strings of gay pennants
that fluttered over the Druitt-street
entrance to the Town Hall. They sug-
gested a flight of bright little birds
against a granite cliff. Here the Hon.
Henrietta Loder and Morna Mackenzie’s
flower-stall bloomed with lily and rose,
gardenia and sweet peas, and all the
flowers between. Pretty Mrs. A. E.
Grace sold coat-hangers and cloud-soft
knitteds, near by Mrs. Joe Coen and
Miss McMahon seemed to be entirely
surrounded by peanuts and plums.
Flocks of small Air League boys were
insistent in the ear as the traders of
Port Said. Mayoress Nock was busy at
the heart of things.
It was a day when everybody was out,
from Lord Wakehurst, who took the
salute of the troops at the Town Hall,
to the just-beginning office boy, very
proud of his button with its flag of Aus-
tralia. Special reference must be made
to the trig navy-and-white smartness of
Mrs. Alice Brenac, to the friendly smile
of Mrs. Jacques Playoust, to Mrs. F. J.
Davy’s irresistible way at the chocolate
wheel, to Beatrice McGirr. Nightfall
brought a different turn to the fun, for
there was dancing near Phillip-street to
Jim Davidson’s band—
The moon’s a silver dollar,
Shining up in the sky.
Let’s spend it in laughter
And let it not be forgotten that Mr.
E. K. White, of Kurraba Point, paid
£lOOO for a £1 button.
Annette Kellerman, with the sun tan
of the Barrier Reef as evenly upon her
as if it had been smoothed by a golden
trowel, was chief spokeswoman at the
Prince Alfred Hospital meeting the
other morning. The meeting was the
prelude to the entertainment of fun and
fantasy at the Olympic Pool which
Annette is producing for Prince Alfred’s.
Annette of the inimitable dive and the
svelte waistline will play an important
part in the programme which will be
gemmed with more than 150 stars and
starfish. Miss Kellerman, who has
brought hundreds of costumes suitable
for naiads, Neptune’s daughters, mer-
maids and so on, will lend these freely
as far as they go (most of them not too
far), and otherwise, if you are the age
and the figure, you can doll yourself
up in lame and seaweed at prices ranging
from 2s. 6d. to 10s. 6d.
Mrs. Ben Edye, who presided, looked
cool as hydrangea in pale blue linen.
Annette’s own headgear was gaze-arrest-
ing. Its brim was a red felt eyeshade,
its crown of red printed cotton. The
two ingredients were whipped into an
attractive bonnet. Jimmy Sullivan,
Annette’s husband, was at the back of
the room in the Australia where the
meeting was held. Later he stepped to
the front and was introduced as the good
cause for which Annette gladly had her
fingerprints taken on entering Australia.
There must be as many swimming pools
around Sydney as there are at Holly-
wood. Offers of pools for rehearsal
came from all quarters of the room —
Mrs. Patrick and Mrs. A. C. Godhard
are among the lenders.
The Papal flag and a two-tiered cake,
all cream and blue icing with a small
statue of St. Aloysius on top, were
features of the St. Aloysius Diamond
Jubilee garden fete held on Saturday.
This is the first time a bazaar has been
held in the college grounds, and hun-
dreds of former pupils, three generations
of them, came along. Money was spent
freely, and the afternoon and evening,
when Shiela Whytock’s pupils gave a
display of modern ballet, finally turned
into an old boys’ reunion. The Apos-
tolic Delegate, Dr. Panico, declared the
fete open, and Federal Treasurer P. C.
Spender was another of the afternoon’s
importants.
Many of the stalls were outlined in
flowers. The fancy stall, run by Mrs.
Greg McGirr and Mrs. Flipo, was bor-
dered with peach-blossom, while the
sweet stall, run by Madame Leman, was
gay with tulips. The prizes were un-
usually attractive. Probably every woman
there cast a covetous eye on the Royal
Doulton teaset; also there were an opal
brooch, the fine craftsmanship of the
setting adding to the beauty of the stone,
some exquisitely embroidered table linen
and a Christmas stocking that any woman
would be pleased to find hanging on the
foot of her bed on Christmas morning.
This was filled with silk stockings, powder
and other articles, any one of which
would make an acceptable gift. There
was a toy stall where anyone who wanted
to do a Santa Claus act could buy a toy
or doll, and leave it for dispatch to an
orphanage.
Barbara Salenger, of the cameo-like
features, will be busy at the Forum Club
Fete today. This will be held on the
premises for the club’s Soldier Comforts
Fund, and will be manned by Forum
members, their daughters and friends.
Lady Wakehurst will declare it open.
Barbara is a daughter of the E. H.
Salengers, of Killara. She loves the
theatre and is always a first-nighter. As
well as good looks Barbara has a cargo
of brain. She was one of Sydney Uni-
versity’s last year’s B.As., graduating with
honors in Latin. Photograph from Dayne.
Passy, one of Hunter’s Hill’s old houses,
was bright w'ith lights and massed with
hydrangea, November lilies and mag-
nolias when the Martin-Hunter’s Hill
Music Club gave its before-Christmas
programme. Mrs. John Holmes ("she is
known as singer Joan Mackaness) and
her mother, Mrs. George Mackaness,
were joint hostesses. Mrs. Holmes’s off-
the-shoulder frock of magnolia satin and
her piled-up curls chimed in with the
atmosphere of the mellow old house. Mrs.
Mackaness wore silver-patterned ice-blue
crepes. The night’s artists were Doreen
Price, Joan Mackaness, Roy Agnew,
Charles Benson and Mrs. Pilkington.
Among other works, Roy played a pas-
torale by Hazel Kelso-King.
The guests of honor were Mrs. Walter
Swinson, who was squired by son Ryder,
the Lawrence Godfrey Smiths and
Thelma Houston. Roland Foster, so
soon to be Thelma’s husband, was to
have been honored with her, but laryn-
gitis had laid its hand on him. Anyway,
the company gave Thelma the wedding
present. It was a petit point backed
dressing-table outfit. Thelma was grace-
ful in flowered chiffons.
The last English mail brought the news
of the engagement of Margaret Shaw,
elder daughter of Commander Shaw
(R.N.) and Mrs. Shaw, of Mingay, Bed-
hampton, England, to Lieutenant An-
thony Carey, only son of Colonel Carey,
of Jersey. Lieutenant Carey is with his
regiment “somewhere in France.” Mar-
garet’s grandparents were the P. J.
O’Donnells, of Mingay station, Gun-
dagai. This is her 1 latest picture.
The olive green lounging suit brought
up the tints of Jane Conolly’s auburn
tresses in the opening act of “Yes, My
Darling Daughter.” Indeed, Jane was
particularly pleasing all through this new
Minerva offering. The management
chose the unusual night of Tuesday to
ring up the curtain, and the audience
seemed just as large as those on nights
nearer the week-end. In the first inter-
val the people sipped cool drinks and
wondered if the second act was going
to be as hot as they hoped it might be.
Princess Radziwill brought a large party.
In spots the frocking was glossy to the
last button. In other spots it was tailored
suits or tub frocks.
Among the handsomely frocked were
Mrs. Jimmie Dickson, her black lace
frock very full as to skirt and
appliqued in white leaves; Mrs. E.
H. Salenger, . also in black; Pat
and Barbara Salenger, the former in
crepes the shade of a freshly-plucked
clover, the latter in petal pink.
If anyone thought they could get away
with the ice-cream loaves from Hilda
Mulligan’s party they were mistaken.
Every round cut had Hilda’s monogram
carved on it.
There was probably more ice-cream at
this party than any Boy Scout jamboree
has ever dreamed of. The star course
of the supper was a monster ice-cream
cake that might have been an inspiration
for a Swinburne poem, so twined with
grapes was it. That was not the only
touch of the grape at the party. The
last-minute toast was drunk in cham-
pagne.
All these good things were served in
one of the small halls at the Conser-
vatorium at the Christmas party arranged
by Hilda Mulligan, of Operatic School
fame, who hostessed in hydrangea-blue
taffetas. Sister Louise wore black and
silver lame. The party, to which there
was a great roll-up of students, was set
on the stage of the Conservatorium. and
for a change these vocal and instrumen-
tal artists gave hands and voice a rest
and exercised their feet.
Director of the Con., Dr. Bainton, was
there with Mrs. Bainton. Daughter
Guenda brought her young man, Harold
Abbott. Hilda’s brothers, J.J. and H.P.,
helped to carve the ice-creams. Mrs.
Drummond came with her Minister of
Education. Daughter Edna wore pale-
pink lace. Isolde Hill came. Mrs. Henri
was among the strollers on the lawn
outside the Con. who looked down on
the moon-splashed harbor.
This writer liked the quiet grace with
which Marianne Mathy stood to sing
the works of Gluck, Schubert, Pergolesi,
Charpentier and others of like charm.
Marianne’s concert, which was to aid
the Polish Relief Fund, had Poland’s
Consular de Noskowskis and America’s
Consul-General Wilson in the front row.
But Archbishop Mowll was of all front
seaters literally the big man (he over-
topped all others in the audience). On
his left was seated Mrs. de Noskowski
and on his right Dame Constance
D’Arcy. These afternoon concerts are
becoming very popular. Here came Dr.
Marie Hamilton, Mrs. Hubert Fairfax
and Mrs. H. R. Evans. Against the white
of the Australia ballroom the singer's
flowing frock of thick satin, deep blue
with red stripes, stood out vividly. Mrs.
Lorenz’s white linen suit with its inset
of Irish crochet on lapel and sleeves was
notable. Mrs. Walter Burfitt, tenor
Charles Benson and his wife were others
who enjoyed the singing, the ’cellist,
Nelson Cooke, and the violinist, Donald
Blair. H. P. Tinkler was the accompanist.
An ivory house basking in the sunset,
Florida, at Rose Bay, was a place of
cheerfulness and grace last Thursday
afternoon. Hundreds who came from
the city and the northern suburbs
sounded the prolonged note of admira-
tion when they stepped into its spacious
hall and glimpsed the staircase of mosaic.
This sherry-coffee-before-nightfall party
was to sponge out some of the expenses
of the play to be produced for Scarba,
the Benevolent Society’s home at Bondi.
The play, which will be housed at the
Minerva, has been written by C. T.
Lorenz, so Mrs. Lorenz was naturally an
important person at the party. She’s a
slim and pretty creature, dressed as a
sort of super Romany lass, her long skirt
of velvet black as night, her bolero a
dazzle of sequins.
After the sherry there was a concert
in the ballroom. Here were songs and
instrumental music and recitations. Bar-
bara McDonnell was seen in Indian
dances. Graceful Jocelyn Targett was a
performer and deserves special mention
both for artistry and for her long, dull
gold earrings of antique design. Girls in
peasant and gipsy costume sold sweets
and lucky numbers. Mrs. Carlton Kelly’s
jaunty hat with its red, white and blue
posy was as blithe as the day. She, her
husband and Commander Griffith Bowen
and Mrs. Targett had as their back-
ground the Latvian flag. The Union Jack,
from its place at the back of the stage,
dominated the scene.
Among charming books for children
this Christmas is Garden of Edens by
Judy Brown —a book for young Austra-
lians by an Australian.


BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tired Kidneys How to Get
Happy Relief.
If backache and leg pains are making you
miserable, don’t just complain and do nothing
about them. Nature may be warning you «iat
your kidneys need flushing out.
The kidneys are the great filters of the
blood. All day long the blood is passing
through the 15 miles of kidney tubes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy per-
30ns should pass 3 pints a day and so get
rid of more than 3 pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become clogged,
bladder passages are scanty, burning and
smarting. The acids and wastes that should
be passed out of the body, stay in the blood
and become poisonous. This condition causes
nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. x
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist for DOAN S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . .. . used suc-
cessfully the world over by millions of people
suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will
help flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes.
So be sure you get DOAN S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS.
PET'I
HOPEWOOD HOUSE
HOMECRAFT AND FINISHING SCHOOL . . .
. . . Darling Point, SYDNEY
Hopewood House, in beautiful surroundings overlooking the Harbour,
is the only school of its kind in Australasia. It offers expert tuition
and training in all cultural subjects and accomplishments, under
ideal conditions, on the lines of the leading finishing schools abroad.
There are three complete Special Courses:
FINISHING—HOMECRAFT (with special
fully-equipped Practice Flat) —and SECRE-
TARIAL.
All subjects are taught by specialists, and
foreign languages by experts in their own
tongue.
A special course of general education on
non-examination lines has been arranged
for pupils of fourteen years or over.
School reopens FEBRUARY 14, 1940.
Illustrated brochure and full particulars
may be obtained from the Principal . . .
MISS NANCY JOBSON, M.A. (Melb.).
Legal Notice.
TO JOHN LIPSETT and
THOMAS LORNE JAMES LIPSETT,
brothers of PHYLLIS JANE LIPSETT,
who died in New Zealand on the 17th
May, 1939, and to any child or children
of the said Hamilton John Lipsett and
Thomas Lome James Lipsett or either of
them, and to all persons claiming by,
through or under them.
PURSUANT to an order made by the
Supreme Court of New Zealand you are hereby
callea upon to send in to the undersigned on
or before the 31st March, 1940, your claims
to the estate of the abovenamed Phyllis Jane
Lipsett deceased, failing which the said estate
will be distributed amongst those entitled
thereto disregarding your claims.
DATED at Wellington this 13 th day of
November, 1939.
The Solicitor,
Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Divorce Notices.
IN IHE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1880 of 1939.
BETWEEN MONA AMY MAY MUNRO
Petitioner
And SYDNEY HUGH MUNRO Re-
spondent.
TO SYDNEY HUGH MUNRO late of Rabaul
New Guinea.
TAKE NOTICE that the said MONA AMY
MAY MUNRO has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a disso-
tuion of her marriage on the grounds that
you have without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted her and without any such cause or
excuse left her continuously so deserted during
three years and upwards AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an
appearance to the said suit at the proper office
of this Court on or before the 22nd day of
February 1940 and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding. A copy of the petition filed
herein may be had on application to the under-
signed free of charge.
DATED this 27th day of November, 1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
S. H. SIMBLIST, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
74 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes jurisdiction.
No. 1792 of 1939.
BETWEEN KENNETH WALTER POLLARD
Petitioner
And IRIS VIVIENNE. POLLARD for-
merly Iris Vivienne Finch Respondent.
TO IRIS VIVIENNE POLLARD late of
Coolabah.
TAKE NOTICE that the said KENNETH
WALTER POLLARD has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying for
a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE
that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this
Court on or before the Twenty-eighth day of
February One thousand nine hundred and forty
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free
of charge.
DATED this Thirtieth day of November,
1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
P. G. TRUMAN, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Challis House, 10 Martin Place, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
* No. 1718 of 1939.
BETWEEN SARAH BUXTON MARSH Peti-
tioner
And CYRIL HAMILTON CLYDE
MARSH Respondent.
TO CYRIL HAMILTON CLYDE MARSH
late of Granville.
TAKE NOTICE that the said SARAH
BUXTON MARSH has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a decree of dissolution of mar-
riage on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or excuse
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twentieth day of February One
thousand nine hundred and forty and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit will be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this Twenty-fourth day of Novem-
ber, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
FREDERICK McGUREN, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
The 400 strong who had dates for
bridge in aid of the Comforts Fund a
the Sacrd Coeur Convent got into their
fur coats and rubber booties to brave
the wintry winds on an official summer
day last week. Once indoors their spirits
rose, the rooms were cheery with flowers,
heaters and an atmosphere of goodwill.
Marjorie Curr was president of the com-
mittee. Other members included Mrs.
E. Macgillicuddy, Mrs. Roly Barlee and
Joan Kelly, collectors and assessors of
ticket money, Mrs. H. Van Assche and
Ita Arthur, who occupied a table of
ledgers, and Mrs. J. McCauley and Clare
Lennon, who organised the commissariat
pertaining to tea, Clare Graham and
Kathleen Wright, distributors of sweets,
and Mrs. Fred Sanders and Mrs. D.
Oliphant, who spent the morning
arranging flowers and the afternoon
selling them.
Sheila Taylor sold cigarettes and Mrs.
J. H. McGee stage-managed the
bridge rooms (in the junior and
senior studies and in the library).
For those who preferred a spot of aural
entertainment Mrs. W. C. J. Kelly and
Mrs. T. J. K. Whittam organised a
musical programme in the front drawing-
room. Tea was served at buffets in the
school hall and the children’s dining-
room. Round about £l3O was raised
for materials for the Comforts Fund
workers who meet every Friday at the
school in the vicinity of sewing machines
and cutting-out tables.
Saturday evening stood up to revivals
of early vintage, “The Arcadians” at His
Majesty’s, and “Gipsy Love,” an amateur
show at the King’s, produced by Paul
Plunkett. Those who knew little or no-
thing of the principal characters billed
to move in and out of Arcady suspected
the worst and were pleasantly surprised.
The all-Australian cast did very well, and
showed signs of thorough rehearsing as
well as interesting talent.
Those people who foretold apathy and
an empty house and didn’t bother to
dress slipped badly. The audience came
along in full force of numbers and deco-
rative apparel. In the circle were the
Atholl Flemings. Mrs. Fleming, slim
and fair as in the days when she was
Phyllis Best, wore over a geranium-red
frock a black coat with big white lapels.
Mrs. Trevor Oldham chose a white wrap
over a chalk-white gown. Mrs. Douglas
Carnegie’s cloak was of silver brocade,
and Mrs. Officer Brown’s wrap, cut on
flowing lines, was of a deep shade of
burgundy. One or two men wore then-
tropical evening wear, and a number
were noticed in soft-shirt accompani-
ments for their black ties.
There’s no doubt about the popularity
of the Comedy Harmonists; houses as
large and as faithful as ever. Loudspeakers
were an innovation at the Town Hall and
the dressing-up of the stage was a great
improvement on the habitual aspidistras ;
slender birches and poplars climbed in-
stead over platform and organ loft. The
“popular concert” audiences wore day-
time clothes, with a few exceptions in
uniforms and evening attire, among these
being Commander and Mrs. Eardley Wil-
mot, she wearing a swingback coat in
pastel-pink taffeta and a distinctive coif-
fure with emphasis on all-over parting, a
swathe across the back and a few curls
aloft. Major and Mrs. Bill Boyes, re-
cently transferred from Newcastle to
Melbourne, were also present, Mrs. Boyes
wearing black and her husband his warm-
est great coal (for it was a winter night
in the middle of summer) over his
uniform.
George Bell’s pupils past and present
paid their popular teacher the compli-
ment of an exhibition of their pictures
in the Athenaeum to bid him farewell.
Mr. Bell has relinquished his flourishing
school, goodwill and all. He says it’s
time for him to sit back and paint for
himself ; his students, having been trained
in individuality and independence, can
carry on learning by experience. He
expects to miss his students (they were
always a happy family), but he feels he
has earned a span of years to himself.
James Quinn opened the show with a
speech of some length. In spite of the
unpleasant afternoon, rain one moment
and sunshine the next, and a gale to
whisk off hats around the corners, the
gallery was crowded on the first after-
noon. A loudspeaker was a useful tem-
porary addition. Many of the 37 ex-
hibitors were present, including Grace
Gardiner, Colin McGowan, Jessie
Mackintosh, Ina Morris, Marjorie North,
Marjorie Rankin and Marjorie Wool-
cock. Russell Drysdale was there with
his better half, her navy hat swished
around with much mauve tulle.
Other exhibitors included Mary Alice
Evatt, who when she hasn’t a palette bal-
anced upon her wrist is Mrs. H. V. Evatt,
wife of the High Court Judge. Marie
Casey of the catalogue was present in the
person of Mrs. Dick Casey, wife of the
Federal Minister at present on the move
in Canada. She wore a navy suit and
something modern arty in hats. Dr.
Clive Stephen, who exhibited four pieces
of sculpture, couldn’t manage to put in
an appearance, but his wife was there,
in teal-blue hat and tweedy coat. Dr.
Guy Reynolds called in, and Jack
Courier was at the management’s desk
placidly puffing at his companionable
pipe.
Herewith Athol Shmith pictures Win
Moran, who was married in Wesley
Church, Lonsdale-street, one afternoon
last week to Kenneth Whitehead. She is
the fourth daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Leslie Moran, who gave a party for felici-
tations after the ceremony at their home,
Little Milton. The ’groom, who is the
youngest son of the G. H. Whiteheads, of
Goodwood, Minhamite, has built a house
for his bride on this well-known family
property in the Western District.
Four members of the E. L. Kiernan
family are glad to be back in Melbourne
after the tail-end of blackouts which
concluded their 19 months’ abroad. John
has remained at Cambridge doing law,
but Mrs. Kiernan, Marjorie, Mary and
Peter are once more united to their hus-
band-and-father. Peter has to go back
to school, for the hand of fate plucked
him from his work in England just as he
was ready to sit for his school certificate
examination (otherwise matriculation).
The girls had taken up music in earnest,
Mary the piano at the Royal Academy
and Marjorie the flute under the tuition
of John Amadio.
The Kiernans had the experience of
London in darkness, of a visit on the day
war was declared from the janitor, who
brought into their flat a bucket of sand
“to throw on the bomb” if it arrived.
They evacuated themselves to the Cots-
wolds and later to a charming old Mill
Hotel in Berkshire. Mrs. Kiernan was
her own chauffeur back to London to
stand in the queue at shipping offices,
wind up the lease of the flat, etc. When
she returned the car the garage manager
was profuse in his thanks, not for the
car, but for the odd gallon of petrol still
in the tank. Regarding shopping, Mrs.
Kiernan said that every smart hat in
London seemed to disappear overnight.
Only a few drab objects that seemed to
be made from last year’s scraps were on
show in milliners’ windows. All prices,
particularly of shoes, soared upwards
alarmingly. Marjorie and Mary, who
feel they missed an orgy of shopping
before coming home, bought devastating
beach hats in Gibraltar and let their
heads go in Aden among the underwear
shops.
In Jack Cato’s photograph is Marie
Balfour, who will play the Duchess of
Cleveland in Gregan McMahon’s pro-
duction of “In Good King Charles’s
Golden Days” commencing at the
Comedy on 9th. Marie’s last appearance
behind the footlights was in McMahon’s
Melbourne production of “Dinner at
Eight,” since which event she has been
holidaying with her sister Jean among
the tropical scenery of Singapore and
Java.
The Max Cooch couple faced the altar
, again last week in the capacity of matron-
of-honor and best man for the marriage
of Alice Mclntosh and Gordon 'Tait. The
bride is the younger daughter of the
George Mclntoshes, of Camberwell, and
the ’groom the only son of the John Tait
couple of Kooyong-road, Caulfield.
Further support for the leading couple
at the ceremony performed at the Toorak
kirk was provided by Betty Mitchell and
Wilfred Wallace. The rejoicing took the
form of an afternoon party at Grosvenor.
Golf clubs were included in the luggage
for the motoring honeymoon of the
newly-wedded couple, who will settle
down on their return in a flat in Williams-
road.
To have attended the teeth of the
closely-guarded Dionne quintuplets and
of Eskimos in the Arctic are among the
varied experiences of Dr. Alan McCay,
who returned to Melbourne a few weeks
ago. He can also compare the tropics
with the frigid zones, for he practised
in New Guinea for seven years before
setting forth for America and Canada
early in 1938.
Dr. McCay’s unique opportunities
came to him through his association with
the University of Toronto, where he
acquired his doctor’s degree in dentistry.
The Dean of the Faculty, who inspects
the mouths of the Quins at regular in-
tervals, chose Dr. McCay as an assistant
for one of his regular visits. The job,
one of taking impressions of the chil-
dren’s mouths, took two hours, for they
were lively and inquisitive young
patients with minds as bright .as their
twinkling brown eyes. Dr. McCay fell
heavily for the youngsters, though at the
end of the work session he couldn’t tell
one from another.
His experience in the Arctic was a
three months’ appointment to the clinic
_ Aklavik maintained by an Anglican
Mission. The Eskimos were docile, if
unwashed, patients, whose teeth are not
as good as they used to be in the days
when frozen seal meat was stable diet,
and it was part of woman’s job to chew
the tough skins to be used for her hus-
band’s boots. These primitive inhabitants
of the Arctic Circle are gradually coming
m contact with mail-order catalogues
containing pictures of modern leather
boots, silk stockings, etc. Such is human
nature and the art of pictorial advertising
that they buy these goods and wear them
with pride if not comfort.


Give
MACMILLAN BOOKS
f@r Christmas Presents
Prices advertised are those at which the books are
published in London. Prices outside the Britisli
Isles must be fixed by the importing bookseller.
New Novels
(Overseas Library.)
HUGH WALPOLE
The Sea Tower
E. M. DELAFIELD
Love Has No Resurrection
NAOMI ROYDE SMITH
Urchin Moor
MAZO DE LA ROCHE
The Sacred Bullock
A. G. MACDONELL
Flight from a Lady
HUGH WALPOLE
The Herries Chronicle—
Rogue Herries, Judith Paris,
The Fortress, Vanessa.
Complete in One Volume, 1504 pp.
RUDYARD KIPLING
More Selected Stories,
3s. 6d. and ss.
LORD BADEN-POWELL
Paddle Your Own Canoe,
2s. 6d.
GERALD BULLETT
The Jackdaw’s Nest
1000 pp. 10s. 6d.
Ask any bookseller for fuller particu-
lars of these and other recent books.
MACMILLAN & Co. Ltd.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2.
THE SERVICE MAN
War in the Mud.
“Ente Marid”: Winter has arrived
properly now in northern Europe, bring-
ing conditions which are unimaginable
to any Australian who has not seen them.
The Rhine is running the normal banker
which follows the November rains, and
calls the citizens of Cologne to the
bridges to watch its rising yellow flow.
In the North Sea all the little pilot boats
which serve Dunkirk and Antwerp are
tossing round like corks, and between
mist and downpour it is difficult any-
where to see a hundred yards despite the
whistling north-westerly. It is a season
which used to send hundreds of ships
scuttling for safety in the estuaries in
the days of sail, the season when the
normal four-day voyage from Edinburgh
to Gravesend used to be turned into a
fortnight’s journey.
In peace-time, every peasant would be
preparing his farmyard economy as for
a three-months’ siege—cattle stalled
under tfre best bedrooms in the village
inns, fodder piled ready, sledges out in
the Black Forest being greased for the
coming snow, everything shipshape in the
fields till agriculture can begin again.
With their deep lines of entrenchment
armies are drier than civilians, but on
a 50-mile-wide belt, some of it populated
normally with 400 people to the square
mile, it must be a terrible time—roads
and fields ploughed up by huge cater-
pillars, trailing guns and wagons which
leave a sunken quagmire road behind
them when they cross the fields. The
war, in fact, has ceased to bear any
semblance to Blitzkrieg. It is now, as the
Germans would say, in der Patsche —
“deep in the mire.” A war of isolated
aerial chasings, of occasional bursts of
shellfire, of raids feeling out the enemy,
of submarinings and—a new horror —
ghastly minings of ships at sea.
German armies are still piled up on
the plain between the fortress centre of
Aix and the point where the Rhine
crosses the Dutch border. The Maginot
and Siegfried Lines are still filling with
fresh troops, while work goes feverishly
on to complete frontal fortifications.
There is an essential difference be-
tween the French and German defences.
The Maginot Line is a true line, run-
ning 300 miles largely according to the
contour of the Rhine, half a dozen
storeys deep ; whole levels given over to
transport so that troops can be moved
quickly and mechanically from one end
to the other, the bottom positions out of
reach of any shell ever made or likely to
be made, the surface studded by concrete
and steel turrets with big guns which can
revolve round almost the whole circle, the
approaches peppered with minefields,
“asparagus” and pillboxes.
The Siegfried Line, on the other hand,
is in reality not a line at all. Much
of it is constructed among little hills ;
some, especially toward the south where
the back country breaks, along steep
gorges. Generally, its defences are 30
miles deep in three zones —frontal recon-
naissance and observation sections, a
midway forest of mines, guns and traps
for advancing troops, and a rear series
of complicated heavy fortresses, whose
guns not merely control the whole of the
frontal portions, but can be swung to
lay duplicate barrages on gaps between
themselves. Behind, again, are railways
and 80-mile-an-hour concrete roads as
straight as an arrow, from one end of
Germany to the other.
No attacking force could reach the
Rhine and cross it and climb the natural
barrier of the German ranges without
being under a terrific hurricane of shells.
It is no wonder that both sides defer
the moment of onslaught, and that Ger-
many, for her part, should cast longing
eyes on the flat lands of the Low Coun-
tries, through which would lie her best
plan of attack according to the old pincer
strategy, or through the Balkans to the
Black Sea —collecting oil and grain on the
way—and across Asia Minor. By this
route she might transfer the campaign
to the Middle East, where the Allies
would find it hardest to fight, and where
the integrity of British interests is so im-
portant to the whole British Com-
monwealth.
Deutschland v. Rawalpindi.
“Ek Dum”: It couldn’t have been a
“fight” in any sense. The Rawalpindi
was a typical 17,000-ton P. and O.
steamer which had been converted into
an auxiliary cruiser for the Arctic patrol;
she was less than 500 miles from Scapa
Flow, s.-e. of Iceland. She and her type
are favorites for this kind of patrol work,
which makes life on a warship hell, as
was learnt very early in the last war.
The Rawalpindi was armed with 6in.
guns. Her starboard broadside con-
sisted of four of them. To any large-
calibre naval gun her hull would have
been little better than paper. She was
seven or eight knots slower than the
enemy.
The Deutschland’s heavy-gun positions
would be impervious to 6in. weapons at
10,000 yards her turrets have about
7in. armor. Her war crew numbers 965,
or about three times that of the Rawal-
pindi. And her two llin. batteries are
mounted in threes fore and aft and re-
inforced by eight 5.9 in. guns.
Thus the Rawalpindi and her Captain
Kennedy —he was R.N.R. and 60 —faced
a forlorn hope. The gallantry of her
commander was in the tradition of Gren-
ville and the “one and the fifty-three.”
They could throw a 4001 b. broadside from
their four guns. The Deutschland,
using only her six big guns, could toss
in a 40201 b. broadside, carrying as much
explosive as six torpedoes. The wonder
is that the Rawalpindi, her bridge blasted
away, lasted half an hour of bombard-
ment. Thirty survivors are believed to
have been picked up by German ships.
Eleven were picked up by a sister-British
auxiliary cruiser. The captain was killed
early in the battle, which went on till the
liner’s guns could fire no more.
The survivors should not need much
luck to live long enough to hear that the
40001 b. broadside of the Deutschland
has been stilled by the 12,0001 b. broad-
side of 15in. guns of a battle-cruiser of
the R.N.
Russia's "Mighty Navy."
“Tovarish”: The Finnish crisis raises
the question of the strength of Baltic
navies. Any British battle squadron could
take on the lot, despite the fact that
Comrade Tevosyan, Soviet Commissar
for Construction, announces that last
year the U.S.S.R. filled sixth place in
naval construction, and “will take in 1942-
43 one of the first places in the world in
number and construction of vessels built
annually.”
At present British building equals that
of all other European countries together,
and any six months’ construction would
produce a surface unit of the British
Navy considerably stronger than the
whole U.S.S.R. force. Virtually, all Rus-
sian ships put together in the last three
years have been designed—and some of
them, such as the Taskend, laid down in
Leghorn in 1937, built —by the Italians,
who, contemporaneously, were being
branded “Fascist vultures.”
According to Admiral Kusnietsov,
People’s Naval Commissar, the Russian
Navy consists of four fleets. More than
50 warships took part in the last Baltic
Fleet cruise—“the most recent unit is
the cruiser Kirov, a powerful floating
fortress which is our Soviet navy’s fairest
jewel.” The Kirov is an 8500-ton cruiser
designed by Ansaldo, the Italian firm
which is building Italy’s 35,000-ton battle-
ships. She is equipped with Italian
machinery, and is a modification of
Italy’s Attendolo class. She carries 7.1 in.
guns, and could not stand up against
H.M.A.S. Australia or Canberra for half
an hour. Three other ships of the same
class are being built.
There are a couple of 23,000-ton Rus-
sian battleships in the Baltic. They have
speeds of round 22 knots and have less
than two-thirds the horsepower of our
7000-ton cruisers. There are a couple more
of the same type in the Black Sea, sent
there 10 years ago.
Altogether Russia in her four fleets has
these four old crocks of battleships (three
of them done over in the early years
of the present decade to make them sea-
worthy) and nine or ten cruisers of vary-
ing ages, the older ones dating back to
1900 and a few more on the way to
completion, with a few modern destroyers
and what the Admiral calls “the most
powerful submarine fleet in the world.”
Sweden has 10 cruisers, most of them
old and none above 7100 tons, but mainly
carrying llin. and Bin. guns, Norway
four very old cruisers, Denmark two.
Finland has only half a dozen boats,
minelayers and training ships and six
small submarines.
Mines.
“Nobby II ” remembers:
In the last brawl the British laid mine-
fields all across the North Sea, the Germans
wherever they could get them down.
British and American mines were laid down
in accordance with conventions and were
so highly sensitive that it was no uncommon
thing for one mine to explode several others.
It is recorded that in September, 1918, while
the Second Battle Squadron was protecting
minelayers off the Orkneys, the men of
“Wait till this black-out lifts an I'll
punch you on the-nose!”
H.M.A.S. Australia in 11 hours counted 300
mines which blew up as soon as they were laid.
The Inflexible tallied 388.
The Germans had several fields at various
times round the Dogger, off the Firth of Forth,
and in the Channel, where, among other ships,
they sank the Australian transport Port Nichol-
son.
Usually German minelayers were backed by
battle squadrons. It was like a game of hide
and seek. On May 17, 1915, for example, the
German High Seas Fleet came out to support
the laying of a field round Dogger. The
British Grand Fleet rushed out to find it had
gone home. Later Von Scheer came out again,
laid another minefield and scuttled for home
in front of the Grand Fleet.
In September the British took a turn, and the
Orvieto, protected by the Third Battle Cruiser
Squadron, laid fields across the channels usually
used by the German High Seas Fleet. And at
that very moment the German layers, escorted
by the High Seas Fleet, were sneaking across
the North Sea to lay eggs on the Swarte Bank.
Coming home, they ran into the Orvieto’s little
hatching. One destroyer went down, but the
mines used had mostly come to the surface
and that was the only casualty.
New Year, 1916, was celebrated by the
raider Moewe laying a field off Pentland Firth,
and decorating the French coastal waters
before setting out to see the world. February
saw the British Grand Fleet again searching
for minelayers. In March, submarines mined
the entrances to all British ports. No damage
was done to British Navy or mercantile marine.
The U 7 laid 34 mines in the Forth, and early
in May British minelayers and submarines did
a good day’s pilldropping off the German coasts
while the British Grand Fleet looked on.
Thus the days of Jutland aproached.
“Goodna”: Canberra estimates the
probable daily war expenditure for this
year at £160,000. I don’t wonder. Red-
bank (Q.) camp is seeing the summer
through without refrigeration. Milk
doesn’t go bad. Redbank is within a few
miles of one of the richest dairying
districts in the Commonwealth, but
powdered milk is being served out; it is,
of course, dearer than the natural pro-
duct.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Here’s my suggestion for
a counter to the magnetic minefield
problem. These mines are operated
apparently by delicate magnetic relay
which swings when influenced by a bulk
of iron or steel. Why not try aerial
sweeping? Flying-boats operating at
a safe height could trail induction coils
a few feet over the surface of the water
—fair-sized permanent magnets might
suffice. If the mines are as sensitive as
is claimed they could be speedily and
safely exploded by systematic coverage
of large areas.
* * * *
“Pip II”: Railway Departments finance
holiday leave passes for employees and,
in some States, for their families, and
every set of estimates makes provision for
free railway travel for Ms.P., ex-Ms.P.
and other sorts of politician. But there
are no free passes for men of the A.I.F.
Queensland Diggers are charged excur-
sion fares —single fare and a third—when
they go on home leave ; N.S.W. troops
pay single fare for the return journey.
A Digger in Redbank Camp (Q.), who
gets the customary five days’ leave to see
his family in Rockhampton (C.Q.), 400
miles away, finds himself salted down for
£2 19s. 6d.—just on 12 days’ pay—for
the journey.
* * * *
“Pip II”: The new A.I.F. uniform is
more sensible as a fighting uniform than
the old. It is lighter and freer and quicker
to put on. Mechanical transport relieves
the soldier of a lot of junk which he used
to carry, and with swords in the dustbin
officers are also relieved of a lot of har-
ness. Their Sam Brownes are to be
replaced on service by a cloth belt, like
that worn by the R.A.A.F. The short
puttee and the gaiter replace the long
puttee. The new uniforms will be more
comfortable and less liable to wear and
tear.
* * * *
“N.T.”: On Nov. 30 a proclamation
was issued calling up all single men and
widowers without children who reach 21
during the year ending June 30, 1940, to
serve in the militia. There will be 11
weeks’ training, the first camps opening
in January, 1940, and organised accord-
ing to district and seasonal needs through-
out the year. Men who are at least sft.
4in. high and 33in. round the chest and
who pass the medical examination will
be taken into the active-service class.
Men over sft. 2in. fit for field duties other
than active service with field formations
will also be enrolled. The recruits will
train with established militia units. The
only exemptions are the statutory ones
provided for by the Defence Act, and
these are likely to affect few youngsters
just reaching their majority. It is a pity
that the age is not advanced and the
youngsters exempted. A man of 26 who
is established in employment can better
afford a period in camp than a young-
ster who is still at the university or in
business as a cadet. The latter, especially
those engaged in professions and trades
of use for defence purposes, would be
more useful war-time citizens if they were
allowed to mature their experience un-
interruptedly. And the set man of 26 is
likely to be the better rank-and-file
fighter.


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlcreagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £28,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,200,000.
Arthur Eedy, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM
6AM
6KG
St. George’s
Perth .. . 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
Kalgoorlie 500 watts
Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
-Decide to
f" SliffWA
Visofil
w
/\
Q.
Cs
THIS year, take no
chances with your
Christmas presents! Give
a Swan Pen (or a Fyne-
Poynt Pencil) and make
absolutely sure of giving
lasting pleasure. Both
the Visofil (‘Big-fill’) and
the Leverless (‘Quick-fill’)
are thoroughly up-to-
the-minute and'both are
guaranteed for a lifetime
against defects in material
and workmanship
And, of course, all Swan
Pens have the well-known
special features which have
made the Swan famous all
the world over
as the best pen
money can buy!
/XDi>l
, Z
LWtfS
rrttnnrmnurn
pm
Leverless
Lcver-Tining
tv
sl° sun rQ uVcU.ft'VV
.o{ PR' CtS „ TV>=^ v<Sr 'tucU<.^
, lC ot A* 6 37/®* , A.\' itvbl , W«
M V -)S^ n ’ 3 ' n l6/- A ud..^ 00 -
svra« * fsAade ,n V y^SSi^SE
ners ond )e^ e, ’ trS . 7 s IIJ
of 0,1 stot 7
'
On Sale Everywhere in Australia.
MABIE, TODD & CO. (Aust.) Pty., Limited,
255 a George Street, Sydney, and
323 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
THE FLYING COLUMN
Bombs Over Finland.
“Aileron”: As in Poland, air fighting
has met the expectations of the flapper
press in Finland, but under even more
favorable conditions.
In Poland a vast air force over-
whelming the small Polish one made
Germany’s Blitzkrieg possible. It meant
the possession of a deadly screen of skir-
mishers who could mow down unprotec-
ted and unentrenched cavalry and march-
ing troops and tear to pieces slow-moving
supply trains. It also meant that a num-
ber of bodies of German troops could
move forward independently, certain of
continuous contact with each other.
The Poles, their aerodromes early de-
stroyed and their air force crushed, were
virtually blind as an army, while the
Germans could observe and direct and
supplement long-range artillery lire at
will.
In Finland the story is being enacted
in a different way. The Poles, despite
the advice of the British and French
General Staffs, refused to entrench. The
Finns had built a “Maginot Line” 20
miles back from the Russian border,
necessarily lightly garrisoned in com-
parison with the forces which Russia —
42 times as strong in man-power —can
send against it.
The Finnish Air Force had not more
than 300 ’planes, some of them obsoles-
cent. How many thousands the U.S.S.R.
has nobody knows —apparently not even
Defence Commissar Voroshilov, who
differs with himself every time he talks
about it. But he boasts that his force
can carry “a bomb load of several thou-
sand tons, greater than any Imperialist
air force in the world.”
There are Finnish cities within half an
hour’s flight of the great naval and mili-
tary aerodromes of Leningrad. Warships
can approach these coastal towns and
bombard them from the sea. At the same
time, masses of unopposed aircraft can
blast them from the air, and have done
so ruthlessly.
On the first day of the war 300 Rus-
sian bombers tackled Finnish open towns.
They soon killed 110 and wounded 200
in the streets and houses of Helsinki
alone. Other towns were set on fire.
At the first approach of the Brothers
of Mankind to Helsinki from the clouds
women threw themselves over their
children on the pavements to protect
them. A bomb dropped on a crowded
bus in a main street. Thermit bombs
blasted buildings. Imagine an attack by
the blast of a huge oxy-acetylene-welding
plant, followed by a devastating ex-
plosion, and it gives some idea of what
happens in a house crowded with women
and children which is hit by a thermit
bomb.
But in a war between a little country
like Finland and an overwhelming
tyranny like Russia, in which human life
is worth no more than a used match,
thermit bombs are the seed of quick vic-
tory. If Finland collapses quickly it will
not be because of the military prowess
of the U.S.S.R. and its Red Army. It
will represent the will and ability of Rus-
sian air force to burn and blow thousands
of women and babies and civilians out
of existence like withered leaves caught
in a bushfire. Brave men, who would not
surrender to save themselves, might well
do so to save their wives and babies from
wholesale and horrible slaughter.
Naval Aircraft.
“T.T.E.”: The notion that ’planes
could master warships has not been
borne out; nevertheless, aircraft are
essential for control of the sea. ’Planes
have largely countered attacks made on
British shipping.
For a long time the biplane was most
favored for that job because it could
give reasonably high wing loading with
small wing span. Also, the wings could
easily be folded for storage below decks.
Sea-borne aircraft, too, must be able to
take off and land slowly. More recently
the Blackburn Skua, a monoplane fighter-
dive-bomber, has been found suitable.
A small ’plane fitted with an 830-h.p.
sleeve-valve engine, it has landing flaps,
retractable undercarriage and variable
pitch airscrew. In service it has proved
an exceptionally fine machine for deck
flying.
Some of the biplanes in use for the
Fleet Air Arm show performance figures
not far below the later types of mono-
plane in use at land stations. The Sea
Gladiator, for instance, is a biplane with
high manoeuvrability and rate of climb.
It is well suited for opposing bomb
attacks on convoys.
“McGinty”: Dublin one-third the
size of Sydney and with less heavy ’plane
traffic —is constructing a new aerodrome
with landing area of 300 acres, reserve
for future expansion of 700 acres, and a
mile of contact lights let into the ground
for use in fog landings. Also, one of
the new Chance robot wind indicators
which records definite wind direction and
relays it by repeater to the control
officer. The outlay on the new ground,
which will be ready for service in March,
1940, will be £400,000.
* * * *
“Don”: Claimed that “flaming
onions” are the latest German anti-
aircraft device. The R.F.C. ran across
these gadgets as early as 1916, when on
night raids over German territory. They
consist of vari-colored flares released
from an A.A. shell. Strung together by
flexible steel wire, they drift for some
minutes at high altitude; the idea being
that raiders might inadvertently fly into
them. It is doubtful if there were ever
any casualties from “flaming onions.”
* * * *
“Ailo”: Since - German parachutists
dropped behind the Polish lines in
Silesia were quickly captured, nothing
further had been heard of this much-
advertised form of air attack till reports
of its use in Finland. The Nazis
have a parachute regiment of volun-
teers between the ages of 17 and 23
who agree to go anywhere and do any-
thing for the Nazi cause. Russia claims
to be able to land a brigade behind enemy
lines, complete with cars, motor-cycles,
machine-guns, light artillery and signals
equipment, but Soviet claims were always
on the big side.
* * * *
“X.T.”: The Allied air command is to be
unified, like the command of the armies,
under a c.-in-c. who will be British. His
name has not yet been announced, but
the present chief of the R.A.F. staff is
Air-Chief-Marshal Cyril Newall, who
used to be with the Warwickshires and
afterwards with the Gurkhas before he
was transferred to the R.A.F. in 1919
as Deputy-Director of Personnel. He is
53, learned to fly before the last war, and
has held all the more important terri-
torial air commands. He reached his
present rank in 1937. Next to him on the
staff before the outbreak of war ranked
Air-Marshal William Mitchell, K.C.8..
Sydney-born, who joined the R.F.C. from
a Highland regiment in 1913, and has
been Director of Training, Commandant
of the Air College at Cranwell and Air
Commandant in Irak. His last job was
Air Member for Personnel. Other pos-
sibilities include Marshal of the Royal
Air Force Ellington, Inspector-General,
who was lately in Australia; Hugh Dowd-
ing, A.0.C.-in-C. of the Fighter Com-
mand ; E. R. Ludlow-Hewitt and Arthur
Longmore, another Australian. The
longest-standing flier among officers of
the R.A.F., Longmore’s pilot’s certificate
is No. 72.
V * * *
“Aileron”: Pictures arriving from
London by air-mail show that it is not a
pleasant thing for a German bomber to
be caught from above by British fighters.
One Helll K, which was shot down by
Spitfires at Lammermoor Hill during the
Scottish raid, is a mess from nose to
stern. The marks of eight separate bursts
are shown as if one Spitfire had got her
with all its guns. The wings are pep-
pered from side to side and the fuselage
from end to end. The top-gunner was
killed, the lower-gunner wounded and
his neck broken in the crash. One notice-
able feature about the German machines
is that camouflage has been abandoned.
“Zedo”: The reliable British “Aero-
plane” kills the canards about the faults
of the Messerschmitts which were circu-
lated widely not only by American corre-
spondents but by a 8.8. C. commentator
at the front a few weeks ago. The 8.8. C.
gent, committed himself to the statement
that the wings of the Me 109 fighter “do
curious things when the machine is flown
over 250 m.p.h. and may even come off.”
“Aeroplane” says that steep figure-of-
eight turns can be made by the Messer-
schmitt within the confines of an aero-
drome at over 300 m.p.h. and the wings
are orthodox. The only trouble in the
machine is with the tail when pulling out
of fast and violent dives. However, the
fact that the Me 109 has been flown
faster than any other machine on earth
on the level is its best reference.


T R.A V E 1... on a
PASS
BOOK
*3l
m
Magic Carpet is just an Arabian Night's tale, of
course, but who hasn't dallied with the fascinating idea of
effortless travel at will. And there are Magic Carpets still
almost magic, anyway.
A Savings Bank passbook, for instance.
If you have a Savings Account (and it costs you nothing to
open one) you can make arrangements to draw money
wherever you go, within Australia.
Don't take the risk of carrying large sums with you: travel
light and travel safe —on a passbook.
co mm on (MALTA snuinGS un
•• Of AUSTRALIA • •
for Boys Stanmore, N.S.W.
Recognised for three-quarters of a century as one of the leading educational
institutions of New South \^ales.
A Great Public School with a distinguished record in the realm of education
and the field of sport.
Newington aims to produce Citizens—to inspire boys with ideals of public
service and to equip them to realise those ideals. The careers of old boys,
eminent in the community, attest the soundness of this educational objective.
Newington is ideal for situation and possesses unexampled recreational
facilities in its own grounds. Its domestic equipment is complete and takes
care of boys of all ages, from preparatory school to university.
Wyvern House, the most modern Preparatory School in Australia (opened
in 1938), offers home comforts to young boys, with fullest opportunity for
entrance to the senior classes.
New Term commences 6th February, 1940.
All particulars may be had from P. R. LE COUTEUR, M.A. (Melb. et Oxon.).
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Flying Doctor Services
“X.T.”: The Australian Aerial Medi-
cal Services developed from John
Flynn’s A.I.M. is having a pretty tough
time financially despite Federal and
State subsidies totalling £5OOO, of which
N. S. Wales gets £1540 for the Broken
Hill centre.
The N. S. Wales service covers 400,000
sq. miles, its operations linking with those
of Cloncurry (Q.), which, in turn, link
with Wyndham’s Area. There are also
bases at Port Hedland.and Kalgoorlie, so
that virtually all sparsely-inhabited Aus-
tralia has not only flying doctors but
pedal-set radio at its disposal.
N. S. Wales has come to the stage
at which it may have to cease or seri-
ously reduce activities unless there is
some increase in public
subscriptions. Hitherto the
£3OOO-odd needed above
subsidy has been found by
subscription. Victoria runs
the Wyndham (W.A.) Base
on under £3OOO a year.
Considering the vital necessity for the
work which is being done and the
peculiar adaptability of the organisation
for doing it, all the State Governments
involved might easily pool in a few
hundred pounds more a year to assure
continuance of operations, more especi-
ally as the concern shows a truly Scot-
tish caution in handling the bawbees.
“Daru”: All the civilised war pre-
cautions are being operated in Moresby,
among them some ordinances to guide
approaching aeroplanes. Seaplanes, it
was decreed, must alight at a mooring
“approximately 900 yards east of the
head of the jetty.” The local paper's
reporter made a hasty survey and came
to the conclusion that the spot indicated
was somewhere about the centre of the
golf links.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: Queensland Government
and Shell Oil are making another survey
of s.-w. Queensland for oil in commer-
cial quantities. Years of work have
gone into the testing of the Miles-Roma
area, but investigations will be outside
this district. Perhaps the far-western area
nearer to the Centralian Lakes is about
as good a bet as there is. Years ago I
discussed the possibilities with Cunning-
ham Craig, the Anglo-Persian chief
expert, in London. He was against the
chances. He outlined the pre-requisites.
A break in a high mountain range on
one of the two great Tertiary period con-
tinental folds which run the length of
the American continents and from the
Pyrenees to Maoriland via New Guinea ;
the presence at the break of land below
sea-level or a river estuary or lake, as
in Rumania —end of the Carpathians and
“Take that knife outa y'r mouth , Ma—it ain't lady-like .”
Black Sea ; at Baku, end of Caucasus and
Caspian Sea,; in Iran, the Alvand Range
break, and Mespot. estuaries. These, he
said, combined with well-squeezed
cretaceous deposits —old shellfish and
sea veg.—produced oil. “Now,” he
asked, “where in Australia can you find
those conditions?” I suggested the point
where the Flinders Range (S.A.). falls
down to Lake Frome. “Ah,” said C.C.,
“I know about that. The trouble is that
the country is just 600,000,000 years too
old. Your oil will have dried up there.”
* * * *
“X.T.”: Visiting the south, Mrs.
Christina Gordon, whose name was in
the birthday honors not long ago. She
is one of the grand old women of the
Never Never. Born near North Pine,
just outside Brisbane, she married an
adventurer to whom horizons meant
nothing. She was at Coolgardie when
it was still Hannan’s find. She helped
her husband build the W.A. rabbit-proof
fence. She was the first white woman
on Tanami ’field. She came overland
to Darwin when no motor-tyre had
touched the tracks and when it was so
dry that the party’s dogs had to be
killed. In later years she has kept vari-
ous hotels at Pine Creek and in Darwin,
where she kept the Victoria. She has
known everybody in Darwin since the
beginning of the century, and no swaggie
ever passed her pub. hungry —or thirsty
if he looked as if it would do him no
harm. The only time I ever saw her
inclined to be angry was when I arrived
at the Playford pub. at Pine Creek after
a hectic voyage over the mailman’s track
from Borroloola. I had whiskers a yard
long and hadn’t had a real feed for a
week. Mrs. G. did the honors. A large
lump of cold beef was set in front of
me and a glass of beer, after I had been
given soap and warm water in the yard.
When it was over I fished a bob or two
out of my pocket. “No, no. It’s all
right. You’ll need that to get to Dar-
win,” said my hostess a little testily.
“I’ll mark it up.” It was only when I
dug out a roll of notes that I was allowed
to pay.
* * * *
“Out-backer”: A woman died of
thirst on the second day after the car
carrying herself, her husband and another
man broke down beyond Camooweal
(Q.) on the road to the Tennant Creek
(N.T.). In great heat, and in unknown
country, they set off to look for water,
knocking themselves out and tremen-
dously increasing their thirst. Had they
waited on the road by their stranded
car, as an experienced bushman would
probably have done, all might have been
alive when the inevitable traveller (this
time a hawker) came along.
* * * *
“Motu”: Consecration ceremony of
Papua’s new native-built Anglican
Cathedral at Dogura (B. 22/11 /’39) was
a great success. The Lieut.-Governor was
in the congregation at the main service,
the Bishop of New Guinea led the pro-
cession and the Archbishop of Brisbane
preached the sermon, while 2500 brown
brothers from tribes which once used the
site of the edifice as a battleground
listened as Papuan priests translated into
Papuan, Mukawuan, Übir
and Benadere and a native
choir provided the music.
* * *
“Motu”: Papua petty
sessions court had three
illuminating cases recently.
First was a lady discovered
with a fork and two spoons
suspected of being stolen in
her handbag. She was fined £3. In Mac-
Gregor’s day the idea of having a hand-
bag would have been completely foreign
to any native belle, and at the thought
of having £3 she would have dropped
dead with apoplexy. Second defendant
was a bright lad employed by B.P.
Somebody noticed him putting a shirt
and a strap into a parcel on the wharf
and the parcel into a motor-lorry. He
had pinched them out of a bag on the
Malaita. He has retired to what Papua
is pleased to call a native goal for two
months —a fine holiday from which he
will emerge fat; a free vacation with
kai kai thrown in. A boy charged with
wilfully damaging a motor-car had been
handling cases of meat on a steamer when
some interfering overseer objected to
his technique. So he picked up a case
and shied it down a hatch where it
smashed the mudguard of a new motor-
lorry. When the police came to arrest
him other natives formed a ring round
him and he was taken with difficulty.
Sentence, one month. Some official will
be deeply shocked one day when native
insolence gives way to native violence.


accompanied by an
ASSURANCE POLICY
Act wisely young man l
Assure yourself with the
Equitable Probate and Gen-
eral Insurance Co., Ltd., and
you’ll be fulfilling your ob-
ligations for all time.
EQUITABLE
PROBATE
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office—37l-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wlngello House. Angel Place. Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PEItKiJNiS, General Manager.
GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA » a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England, travel
one Way via “The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAVILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
IllflMlii
Will ;
i , i ■«'/
s*
'lilli!
11
I
Ml
rr 8 -
“wifw
Willi I
i
1
Earning £36 Per Day
tr.
m
:■ ft H
m
\
Fuel Cost
of 8M
• • •
Pictured above is one of Mr. J. Bickets’ (Gunnedah) "Caterpillar” D4’s with header
harvesting two bags of lucerne seed per day, worth £lB per bag. Fuel consumption
was 10 gallons of fuel per day, which at lOd. per gallon would cost only 8/4d.
This is one of the singularly difficult jobs which a "Caterpillar” does at low cost.
Recent rains had promoted new growth, resulting in new plants growing over the
ripe seed. The header had to pick the seed almost off the ground under the new
growth. The "Caterpillar” D4’s light track-type tread did not damage the new plants,
whereas a wheel job would have cut up the paddock, mulshed the plants and re-
tarded growth.
There isn’t a job on your farm which a "Caterpillar” tractor will not do better and
at a lower fuel cost.
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
TRACK-TYPE
TRACTORS
DISTRI BUTORS
Victoria tr Tasmania:
Wm. Adams & Co Ltd.
521-523 Collins Street, Melbourne
Queensland:
Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd.
102-124 Melbourne St., Brisbane
New South Wales:
Waugh & Joseohson Pty. Ltd.
Unwin's Bridqe Road
St. Peters, Sydney
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company
231-239 Flinders St., Adelaide.
West Australia:
Wigmores Limited
613 Wellington St., Perth.
Mail this
coupon to-day!
Address to your nearest State Distributor as above.
Please send me, without obligation, literature showing how I can cut my
costs with a "Caterpillar" Diesel.
NAME
ADDRESS
8.4.39
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unicss stamps accompany-
R.K.L.: Try elsewhere... .E.C.: Gramo-
phone needs a new needle... .E.M.: The
triolet's a difficult form... .I.M.: Tut!....
V.C.D.: Doggerel D.V.R.: Try a women’s
paper... .L.C.D.: Very, very blank W.J.W.:
Carry it on J.K.E.: No sting in that....
T.O.T.: Admirable sentiments... .T.E.McC.:
Pleased to meet the typewriter... .N.F.: Light-
weights. .. .F.C.F.: She should love it....
S.E.S.: Heavy J.L.S.: Very nice for the
horse, but not for publication C.F.S.:
Flat.... .C.P.: Perhaps a daily that publishes
gardening notes would be interested in waggish
poem about caterpillars W.S.E. and I.R.S.:
Not up....S.M.: Not this time L.M.: Why
add to the woes of the wheat-farmer?....
D.B.: A touch of it M.E.T.: It’s a “plea”
all right, but it’s not a poem M.C.:
“Apostrophe to the Australian Eucalypt” is
highfalutin... .O.B.H.: Too long an arm
F.M.R.: Get away from bellerdrammer....
C.D.F.: “I don’t intend to write anything else.”
You have good ideas G.P.W.: “Ye Olde
Automobile” won’t get you anywhere
R.P.S.: Neat, but why the gloomy ending?
H.E.P.: Read for a while, then try again.
... .D.C.L.: Experience is the best teacher....
B.R.: Those prospectors’ ghosts have haunted
us for years H.R.L.: Yes, it’s remarkable.
. ...C.F.P.: It’s not what you’ve written but
what you write that concerns us G.B.H.:
What the wild waves said to you had best
remain a closely-guarded secret G.S.C.:
Where did you hear an abo. talk like that?
... .F.C.T.: “A Criticism of Criticisms of
Criticisms” is too involved for us....
B.F.B.: You need more than a pen, ink and
paper to write a yarn C.S.C.: Can’t
accommodate Farmer Wirewhiskers and his
mortgage... .H.R.P.: A fair effort; pay more
attention to characters J.T.: Bright but
slight.. . .F.R.B.: You forgot to provide the
villain with a long black moustache K.FI.N.:
You’re in A. C. Headley’s alley... .B.G.E.:
We are not amused C.B.C.: “The Last
Crushing” assayed very low I.T.D.: True,
but doubt if you’d place it D.R.R.: Aim
it at Smoke-oh F.G.L.: The ornithological
editor was confounded by “the jackass laughing
cuckoo-wise” P.P.E.: It needs a tonic
A.W.L.: An improvement; steer clear of
“ghostly wailings” and “bloody spectacles”....
F.N.C.: The illustrations frightened us....
J.D.: Much better writers have fallen down on
that theme... .F.D.L.: We left at the eleventh
corpse... .C.G., H.T.E., B.E.W., L.T.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.D.: More like a geometrical problem than
a humorous drawing W.K.: Not interested
in what Bobby saw through the keyhole
TJ.R.: Same old gum-tree and same old sun-
downer camped beneath it G.G.: You’re
three months behind time with that Hitler-
Stalin cartoon... .RJ.: Depressing wheeze
poorly illustrated S.B.B.: The He-She gag
has done its dash E.R.M.: That field be-
longs to Oswald Pryor N.J.: The Red Cross
nurse looks like a left-over from the last war.
A.B.J.: Try working with a broader nib
on a smoother surface H.S.: We suspect
that those masses of black are there to hide
deficiencies... .E.L.L.: In your case ambition
has outstripped talent H.G.: No better
than the last batch received N.T.: When-
ever the weather begins to get warm
that old battler always puts in an appear-
ance. .. .P.B.: Lily and the cow cocky’s son
have strolled across our pages before... .N.E.:
It didn’t pass the sentry stationed at our front
door... .T.E.: Not treating our readers to pic-
ture of battle between cattle-dog and
dachshund...-B.H.: Promising, but there are
too many rough patches A.A.: Picture of
small-town blackout was a washout A.M.S.:
Time-worn chestnuts G.R.D.: Not in the
market for colored Christmas cards J.M.M.:
The plight of the gent, at the bottom of the
well left us unmoved C.M.: You would
do better if you worked to some plan L.A.:
The old fellow passed out in the w.p.b
J.P.: The barmaid is shapely enough, but she
is no wit N.C.: It’s no use presenting them
in that smudged and grimy state.
A Melbourne theatrical reporter goes
to the wrestling:—-
To my way of thinking there is a funda-
mental fallacy about it which explains the
difficulty promoters have in maintaining the
public interest. On the stage, with which
I am most acquainted, actors don’t act their
parts—they live them. Not so Mr. Leo Jansen.
Although he roared like a bull, spat what
looked to be his teeth out, then buried them
in the arm of his opponent without leaving a
single mark upon it, turned a terror-stricken
face to the crowd as if imploring its assist-
ance, and when he was hurled outside the
ring ran around it as if torn between a desire
to return and masticate his enemy and a desire
to seek immediate retirement, Mr. Jansen never
conveyed to me for a moment that he was
in as much danger from Prince Bhu Pinder as
Polonius was from Allan Wilkie, Prince of
Denmark. Although the boards shook when 16
stone flung 16 stone odd on to the arena and
then dropped from a great height on top of it,
I felt that 16 stone odd, by the look of his
shaggy torso, could have stood ten times as
much punishment and come up smiling.
I also observed that when 16 stone was
wrapped round his enemy in two half-hitches
and a reef knot, and was throttling the enemy
at one end and torturing him at the other, the
referee didn’t look as if he feared the worst
to come out of the encounter. When he was
swept into the beefy maelstrom himself I
noticed that he continued to keep one calm
and watchful eye on the proceedings. Cer-
tainly the crowd bellowed its approval, but its
verbal opinion was sarcastic, and what it was
obviously admiring was the way the champions
observed the conventions.
The battle of muscles wasn’t half as exciting
as the love battles of the talkies. Aesthetically,
of course, it was magnificent, and Rodin would
have swooned with delight at the sculptural
beauty of the wrestlers’ postures when they were
torturing one another. The flappers cheered
when the referee accorded the palm to Prince
Bhu Pinder, but they were applauding him as a
turbanned charmer, not as a hero. He accepted
the applause, not like a hero, but self-con-
sciously like a charmer, and waddled off to his
dressing-room.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence.
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn __it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Win. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORBES.
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the \v orld, this
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
BANISH PREMATURE
OLD ACE
When certain glands fail, you
suffer early old age.and loss
of vigour. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine
glandular Extract and will
restore your man-
hood. Price 10/6.
WRITE
TO-DAY
sd
CHEMIST,
319 George Street, Sydney.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin t<? hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Young man, Sydney (23) seeks position as
assistant proof-reader, country or city—s4Bo.
Position as companion wanted by lady
(N.S.W)., competent car-driver, exp. house-
keeper. Free to commence duties when and
where required.—s 462.
To buy old Australian coins, including holey
dollars and dumps.—s 464.
To buy Pig Breeding, by H. W. Potts.—s43B.
To buy correspondence lessons complete course
accountancy, any recognised course. —5476.
To buy correspondence lessons for building
quantity surveyor.—s4Bl.
To exchange copy of The World’s Best
Mystery Stories for copy of Kimino, by John
Paris. —5431.
Whereabouts of Harry Bamber, who was
in Victoria about 20 years ag0. —5441.
Words of poem entitled “Brannigan.”—s4s9.
Words of poem “If I Were King.”—s449.
Words of poem “Tell’s Address to His
Native Mountains,” beginning “Ye crags and
peaks, I’m with you once again.” —5477.
Information Sought.
(1) Sources of iron ore in Australia other
than Iron Knob («S./4.) and Yampi Sound
(W.A.)? (2) Tonnage of ore used annually
in Australia ? (3) Is any ore exported; if so,
where to? (4) Average assay value of Aus-
tralian ore in chemical terms ? (5) Price of
pig iron per ton? (6) Quantity manufactured
annually in Australia, quantity used here and
quantity exported? —s2ss.
(1) Cadia in N. S. Wales, Mt. Philp in the
Cloncurry district and Iron Range, near Port-
land Roads, in Q’land and Blythe River in Tas.
Very large tonnages exist also in the interior
of W.A. (2) During the year ended June, 1938,
1.536.493 tons. (3) During the year ended
June, 1938, 167,918 tons, of which 218 tons
were shipped to the U.K., 147 tons to Belgium,
87,601 tons to Japan, 79,882 tons to the U.S.A.
and 70 tons to other countries. S.A. was the
source of these exports. (4) Not available.
(5) and (6) Particulars of the price, produc-
tion, exports and consumption of pig iron are
as follows: ( a) Average price per ton: 1934,
£4 15s. 7d.; 1935, £4 11s. Bd.; 1936 and 1937,
£4 10s.; 1938. £4 15s. ( b) 1933-34, production
487,259 tons, exports 1610 tons, apparent con-
sumption 485,649 tons; 1934-35, production
698.493 tons, exports 23,440 tons, consump-
tion 675,053 tons; 1935-36, production 783,233
tons, exports 2885 tons, consumption 780,348
tons; 1936-37, production 913,406 tons, ex-
ports 6174 tons, consumption 907,232 tons;
1937-38, production 929,676 tons, exports 5834
tons, consumption 923,842 tons.
* * *■ *
What is the black widow spider, referred to as
having been destroyed with the poisonous snakes
at the London Zoo ? —5387.
The black widow or hour-glass spider (Latro-
dectus mactans) occurs in the southern States
of the U.S.A., and has habits very similar to
those of the Australian red spot spider (L.
hasseltii). The red spot present on the back
of the Australian species is lacking in the
American form, though a red mark shaped like
an hour-glass is present on the under surface
of the abdomen. The effects of the bite of
the black widow are similar to that of the
red spot, and severe pain and suffering may
ensue, though deaths seem to be of rare
occurrence. Owing to the female eating the
male the spider derives its popular name.
* * * *
(1) Total mileage of privately-owned railways
in Australia? (2) How many private railways
are there? (3) What are the lines mainly
used for? (4) Where can information about
each of the cos. be found ?— 5227.
(1) Route mileage at December 31, 1938, was
787.01 miles. (2) Eighteen owned and controlled
by private cos., and five privately owned but
under Government control. (3) For hauling
timber, sugar-cane, coal and various minerals.
Mostly the lines are practically unballasted and
are easily removable. (4) Particulars will be
found in the Transport and Communication
Bulletin No. 29, issued by the Commonwealth
Bureau of Census and Statistics, Canberra.
* * * *
(1) What is the regulation age for N.S.W.
hospital trainees? (2) Are women of 35 years
or over accepted as trainees at any of the
N.S.W. training hospitals? (3) Would certifi-
cates for St. John’s First Aid and Home Nurs-
ing be recognised in any way towards a nurse’s
training ?■ —5366.
(1) and (2) Under the Nurses’ Registration
Act a person desirous of becoming a trainee
in a hospital must be not less than 18. Some
of the metropolitan hospitals decline to accept
anyone for training who has reached her
thirtieth birthday, but this is a domestic rule
and not general. Country hospitals will
usually accept applicants even though they
have turned 30. (3) No.
* * * *
(1) In writing minutes of a meeting, in what
order should the council members’ names be
written? There are president, vice-presidents,
hon. sec., asst. hon. sec., hon. treas. and asst,
hon. treas. and council members married and
unmarried. (2) Should office-holders— president,
secretary and treasurer —have their offices indi-
cated or merely marked present by name ?
For instance, should the minutes start, “There
were Miss AB, president, in the chair, presid-
ing,” or simply Miss AB ? (3) Who writes
and who reads the minutes? (4) Any other in-
formation concerning the writing of minutes.
The correct order of agenda? —s439.
(1) and (2) Indicate who presides, and office
held by that person; other members present
by name only, any order, secretaries last. (3)
The secretary or, in the secretary’s absence,
the assistant secretary. . (4) The presiding
member should read the notice convening the
meeting, and the secretary or her assistant the
minutes of the last meeting, which should be
confirmed by vote and signed by the presiding
member. The secretary may then report any
action, authorised at the previous meeting,
she r may have taken and any correspondence
she has received; any accounts due and present
them for authority; to pay; any report from
the finance committee may be presented, also
correspondence received and action thereon, if
any, to be authorised, date of next meeting.
Chairwoman declares meeting closed.
■ * * * *
What are the duties of the auditor of the
books of a society? —s472.
As auditor your duties would be to check
the income of the society (seeing that all
income has been properly accounted for), its
expenditure, and verify the existence of the
assets claimed in the balance-sheet. As to your
report, try to get hold of annual accounts of
similar society in another town and study
the report attached to it. Honorary auditors
who are not profesional men may find such
jobs worrying and thankless.
* * *
(1) What income might a man expect to earn
buffalo-shooting in the Northern Territory? (2)
Much experience and equipment needed ? (3)
Names of any buffalo-shooters in the Northern
Territory to whom I,could write? (4) When
is the buffalo-hunting season ? —5484.
(1) Would depend on the hides procured.
Hides average about 721 b. in weight, and prices
range from 4d. to 7d. per pound. (2) Experi-
ence is essential, both in hunting and the
proper treatment of hides in preparation for
market. An efficiently-equipped camp requires
at least 30 horses for riding and packing,
together with lorries for transport of salt,
supplies and hides. Proper treatment of the
hides is essential, and treatment lasts for
several days. (3) J. Stott, c/o Northern
Agency, Darwin; W. Wyatt, Mt. Bundy Home-
stead, Adelaide River; Tom Cole, Mary River;
and T. Hardie, Burrundie. (4) Hunting is
confined to the dry season, April to October.
* * * *
(1) Does the Hesselman attachment for Diesel
engines improve efficiency? (2) Is it as eco-
nomical to run as a Diesel; and will it run on as
heavy a grade of oil? (3) Would an engine
fitted with Hesselman be as satisfactory as a
benzine engine for a pleasure launch ? (4) Is
the Hesselman engine hard to handle? —4Bs3.
(1) Cannot say, as the number in use up to
the present is comparatively few, and sufficient
results of actual tests are not available for
comparison. (2) It is just as economical to
run, and will run on any compression ratio
from, say, 6 to 1 to 12 to 1. It will actually
run on heavier grades of oil than the ordinary
Diesel engine. (3) Yes, but on account of the
extra cost a petrol motor or, better still, a
Diesel engine of the Gardner type might be
better business. (4) Some who have employed
Hesselman engines in this country have experi-
enced difficulties such as starting, but most of
this seems to have been due to lack of
familiarity with the type.
* * * *
(1) What laws govern the protection of birds,
animals and fish in the Federal Government
Territory? (2) What birds and animals are
protected? (3) When is the close season for
fishing ? ■ (4) Does the Federal Government
breed fish?— sl9l.
(1) The Animals and Birds’ Protection Ordi-
nance, 1918-37, and the Fish Protection Ordi-
nance, 1929-36. (2) All animals, birds and the
eggs of birds are protected in the Australian
Capital Territory, except rabbits, native cats,
native dogs, flying foxes, foxes, venomous
snakes, tiger-cats, all domestic pets and para-
sites, sparrows, crows, starlings, silver-eyes,
lorikeets (including all fruit-eating parakeets)
and cormorants. (3) A license is required for
permission to fish in the streams of the A.C.T.
The close season for trout ( Salmo fario and
Salmo irideus) is from May 1 until September
30 inclusive in each year. The close season
for Murray or trout cod ( Maccullochella mac-
quariensis), golden perch ( Plectroplites mac-
quariensis), silver perch ( Terapon bidyanus),
Macquarie perch ( Macquarie australasica),
fresh-water catfish ( Tandanus tandanus) and
river blackfish ( Gadopsis marmoratus ) com-
mences on May 1 and ends on November 30
in each year. The close season for Australian
bass in Jervis Bay commences on May 1 and
ends on September 30 in each year. (4) Yes;
memorandum posted.
* * * *
I am the owner of a small cottage in Sydney
built some 40 years ago for which 1 re-
ceive a few shillings rent. The local council
has served me with an order to put in a bath-
room and bath and make a lot of repairs.
Must I comply? —s3sl.
Yes, the N.S.W. Local Government Act pro-
vides that if the dwelling is situated in a
sewered area it must be provided with a suit-
able bath and washtubs, and the Board of
Health may go much further.
* * * *
(1) Is there a substance that could be
smeared on rare birds’ eggs to preserve them ?
(2) What is the scientific name for a collector
of birds’ eggs? (3) Where could 1 procure a
book on taxidermy? —s267.»‘
(1) There is no known chemical substance
that can be used in the manner desired; the
only satisfactory method of treating birds’
eggs for the preservation of the shells is by
blowing. Shells will keep indefinitely. (2)
Oologist. (3) Jonas Bros., Denver, Colorado,
U.S.A., publish books on the subject.
* * * *
(1) Is taxidermy a difficult or costly process?
(2) Could an amateur make a reasonable suc-
cess of it ? (3) Could it -be learnt by postal
course ? —5265.
(1) The process is very difficult. Tuition is
essential; this, together with the equipment,
would be costly. (2) Yes. (3) No. Elemen-
tary textbooks are not available in this country.
Apply to Jonas Bros, taxidermists, Denver,
Colorado, U.S.A.
* * * *
(1) Rail fare between Adelaide and Alice
Springs ? (2) How often do trains run ? (3)
Distance ? (4) Accommodation in Alice
Springs? (5) Any accessible “tourist” sights in
the near district ? —5230.
(1) Single, first-class, £6 17s. 6d. (sleeping
berths, if required, £1 55.); second-class,
£4 14s. sd. (sleeping berths, if required, 165.).
Return, first-class, £l3 4s. sd. (sleeping berths,
£2 10s.); second-class, £9 os. sd. (sleeping
berths, £1 125.). A dining car runs between
Quorn and Alice Springs; meals, 3s. and 3s. 6d.
(2) Train leaves Adelaide on alternate Thursdays
at 9.10 a.m., arriving Alice Springs 2.15 p.m.
following Saturdays. Trains leave Alice Springs
on alternate Tuesdays. (3) Adelaide to Alice
Springs,'9s3 miles. (4) Two hotels and two
guest-houses. (5), Many places of interest
Motor tours ranging from 20 miles the round
trip to trips occupying four days may be
arranged. Further particulars may be obtained
from the S.A. Government Tourist Bureaux
at Adelaide, Melbourne or Sydney.
* * * *
(1) How to distinguish the male from the
female tick ? (2) On what animals are they
found? (3) What scientific institution is at
present making a study of the tick? —sll9.
(1) In the male dog tick the scutum or
shield envelops the whole body, but in the
female the area behind the scutum increases
greatly in size as the female engorges and the
scutum comes to occupy a relatively small
part at the anterior end of the body. The
mouth parts of the male are short and blunt,
those of the female long, sharp arid barbed.
The female alone is the cause of paralysis in
dogs, etc. (2) Ticks have been found on a
number of hosts. The natural host for the
common bush or dog tick is the bandicoot. (3)
Experimental work with dog ticks has been car-
ried out in the past at the McMaster Labora-
tory, Veterinary School, Sydney Uni.
* * * *
A few particulars concerning play competi-
tion being conducted by W.A. Drama Festi-
vals (Inc.)? —5333.
Authors are invited to submit manuscripts
of full-length plays for production in 1940.
At least one play will be produced and a fee
of £25 paid to the author. If a second play is
considered sufficiently worthy of production
a royalty of £25 will be paid for this play
also. Any other plays presented will be paid
for at the current rates of £5 ss. per night.
All persons who have been bona fide residents
in Australia for at least 12 months prior to
April 15, 1940, are eligible to submit plays.
Any play submitted shall be the original work
of the author. If the play has been performed,
published or broadcast, full particulars must
be given. MSS. must be in the hands of the
secretary before April 15, 1940. All manu-
scripts must be typed or printed. Full details
and application forms are obtainable from the
hon. sec., W.A. Drama Festivals (Inc.), City
Mutual Building, St. George’s-terrace, Perth.
* * * *
Method of preserving the juice of pine-
apples and grapes? —4751.
Pineapple juice should be pressed from ripe
fruit which has been grated or cut up. A rack
and doth hydraulic press is most suitable. After
pressing, the juice is pasteurised by heating
rapidly to a temperature of 195 deg. F. and
immediately cooling rapidly. It is then filled into
sterilised bottles and sealed with sterilised caps.
Alternatively, the juice may be filled hot into
lacquered cans, sealed under vacuum and then
cooled rapidly. In the case of grapes, the best
method is also one of pasteurisation. If red
juice is preferred, the grapes may be heated
before extraction to bring the red color from
the skins out into the juice. Grapes for red
juice should be stemmed before pressing, but
those for white juice need not. Excess cream
of tartar has to be removed by heating the
juice after straining to about 160 deg. F., .filling
hot into previously steamed, clean five-gallon
carboys. These are then sealed and stored
under refrigeration or in a cool place for
several months. During storage the cream of
tartar separates out and the clear juice is
afterwards racked off. If a brilliantly clear juice
is required, it must be filtered through an
approved type of filter, otherwise the cloudy
juice may be pasteurised as for pineapples and
filled into containers.
* * * *
(1) Length of parallel gymnasium bars, thick-
ness and distance between them ? (2) Height
of uprights for normal person ? (3) Suitable
timber for uprights? —s22s.
(1) Bars should be Bft. 6in. long, lfin. wide
and 2in. deep, rounded off to suit the grip.
The distance between bars is 15in. or not
more than 15Lin.; this seems,to be most suited
to groups of all ages. (2) Can range from
4ft. 3in. to sft., according to the type of work
to be done. (3) Jarrah set in concrete to a
depth of about 12in.
Does Anybody Know?
Native name for Stockton (N.S.W.).? —5449.
Brief Answers.
A.A.: It has been held that in the case of
a marriage by license (as it is assumed was
the case in this instance) the fraudulent sup-
pression or alteration of a name does not
invalidate a marriage. It was otherwise in the
old form of marriage where the publication of
banns was required... .N.N.M.: If the club has
its headquarters in a hotel a license would prob-
ably be required. If it meets-in a private
house for “legitimate recreation or self im-
provement” it would not require a license
A.M.S.: The only method of treatment of
chronic fistulus wither which could be adopted
is to provide adequate ’drainage by an incision
at the lowest part of the swelling. It is not
likely, however, that a permanent cure would
be effected by these means, in which case a
radical operation involving the complete re-
moval of all. infected tissue would be neces-
sary. This can only be carried out by a vet.
employing complete.anaesthesia.. . .E.J.S.: Write
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Agriculture, Bridge-
street, . Sydney.: . .H.G.8.: Cannot trace the
book mentioned. Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney, will furnish on application a long list
of suitable works.. . .J.M.: See the Statesman’s
Year-Book or . Whitaker’s Almanack, any
recent issues N.N.: (1) The average price
of greasy wool was 10;39d. a pound and of
scoured wool 17:48d. a pound at the 1938-39
wool sales. (2) Average f.o.r. prices a bushel
for wheat for period Dec. 1, 1938, to Aug.
31, 1939, at ports mentioned were: Williams-
town 2s. s|d., Port Adelaide 2s. Id., Fre-
mantle (on a 4d. freight basis) Is. 7|d
R. : The Willcock Ministry, reconstructed
after the last W.A. general election, com-
prises J. C. Willcock (Premier, Treasurer and
Forests), H. Millington (Works, Water Sup-
plies and-Employment), F. J, S. Wise (Lands
and Agriculture),' A. R. G. Hawke (Labor and
Industrial Development), A. H. Panton (Mines
and Health), W. H. Kitson (Chief Secretary,
Educ. and Police), Emil Nulsen (Justice and
Railways), A. A. M. Coverley (North-West), and
E. H. Gray (Honorary Minister)... .A.M.8.:
Write Royal Numismatic Society, 121 Bedford-
square, London M.M.: The Imperial Policy
Group is an organisation headed by influential
Englishmen with well-informed contacts all over
Europe, which makes monthly reports to its
members- on international developments. The
group’s address is 13 Old Queen-street, London,
S. ... .H.T.: The Royal Red Cross
(R.R.C.), founded 1883, is a distinction con-
ferred upon ladies of any rank or nation who
may be brought to the Sovereign’s notice for
acts of mercy in attending to the sick or
wounded in time of war J.B:: Chiefs and
landowners in Scotland are entitled to add to
their surnames, patronymical or territorial
designations, derived from their clan or estate.
When so used, these titles are legally regarded
as part of the surname, and in address “Esq.”
is omitted, being inferred. Such titles are ad-
missible in official documents and registers;
are also borne by wife, heir and daughters,
and when derived from actual land-ownership
or by descent, are.assumable without further for-
mality... .C.M.: At the last British general
election Neville Chamberlain was opposed by
a Labor candidate (J. Adshead) for the Edg-
baston (Birmingham) seat. Figures: Cham-
berlain 28,243, Adshead 6381... .R. 8.: Feilding
(M.L.) is a pastoral, farming and dairying
district, with meat-freezing works, 30 dairy
factories, dried-milk factory and flourmill. It
has a population of about 4550 M.R.:
Gippsland “Mercury” and Gippsland “Times,”
Sale; “Advertiser,” “News” and Goulburn
Valley “Stock and Property Journal,” Shep-
parton; “Mail,” Castlemaine ; “Herald,” “Re-
former” and “Stock and Station Journal,”
Colac; “News” and “Times and Wimmera
Advertiser,” ; Stawell; “Chronicle-Despatch,”
Wangaratta; Gippsland “Standard,” Yarram.
. ...G.L.T.: Section 38 of the Vic. Factories
and Shops Act,- 1938, provides that no male
under 16 years of age and no female of any
age may be employed in a factory later than
nine o’clock in the evening. As regards males
over 16 years of age there is no restriction on
night work... .E.F.8.: It is understood that
the sale of South African wool to the British
Government is optional among growers. The
price at which it is sold to the British Govern-
ment is on the same parity as the Australian
transaction. The only report available from
South Africa states that “In September 23,000
bales were sold at an average of £9 11s. 3d.,
South African currency,” but those would all
be short wools. The average value per pound
greasy was l\d. South Africa sold portion
of its clip to the British Government during
the last war on the same terms as Australia.
At times auction values were above the British
Government price, but at other periods below
that figure. No average price is available for
the wool sold at auction during the currency
of the last-war... .J.K.P.: All entrants to the
teaching service of the N.S.W. Education De-
partment must first undergo a course of training
at a teachers’ college. Scholarships for entry
to the teachers’ colleges are awarded on the
aggregate marks secured by candidates in their
seven best papers at the leaving certificate
exam. Further details can be obtained by
application to the Department of Education,
Sydney P.S.: The stamps inscribed in
either form are not of great value, and that
showing the word “Wakitpu” is catalogued at
Is. 3d. used and the “Wakatipu” variety at
Is. 6d. This represents dealers’ maximum
selling price... .M.N.: The approximate price
of a set consisting of four wooden blades for
a 56in. fan would be 15s. net, plus sales tax.
It would be necessary to send a sample of
the original blades, and in turn the blades
would need to be supplied in sets of four,
since they are balanced. The present import
duty on ceiling fans of this type is 57| p.c. ad
valorem, plus 10 p.c. primage. The present
list price of the nearest standard G.E. ceiling
fan is £lB 12s. 6d. This is a 52in. fan.


Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
&
sf
m
o
Heals , soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils an
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stam fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, QXAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
i:-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
WHEN FEED IS DRY USE
qJ B(
.o*-
BONE FLOUR
TO MAKE THE MOST OF THE
POOR COARSE FODDERS
Stock can do quite well on the feeding stuffs available
in dry season provided they are given a liberal supply
of TRI-CAL-OS and salt . . . This good phosphate
mixture provides the essential minerals which the
poor, coarse fodders lack . . . TRI-CAL-OS will help
to maintain stock in good all-round condition.
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Wool-marketing Points.
“Murrawong”: Under the peace-time
system of selling wool by auction growers
could follow each lot in their clip through
showfloor and saleroom, gaining many
useful hints. Under the appraisement
scheme, the grower has merely to accept
appraisement prices without appeal.
It has been suggested that the new
table of limits defining the types of wool
and price bases should be made public
to enable growers to have their wool
prepared accordingly. This would be
almost impossible in the average wool-
shed which has to deal with many more
types than there are bins. Further, to
get wool up strictly in accordance with
appraisement types, sorting would have
to replace classing, and it would be im-
possible to get an adequate number of
competent sorters. Still, if a clip is care-
fully classed into lines even in length,
quality and condition, the appraisers’
task of typing and valuing is simplified
and the wool will bring maximum prices.
There is need for additional care in
keeping all outsorts —broader or finer
fleeces, heavy-conditioned, discolored,
run-out or doggy wools —out of main
lines. Market the oddments and any
small lots of pieces through some com-
pany with a classing and pooling system.
Small clips could be marketed in the
same way. Don’t sell your wool in the
shed or to a country buyer. Both buyer
and seller are now liable to a heavy
penalty.
State Wool Committees have stressed
the importance of thorough classing for
appraisement, and strongly advised
growers not to send mixed bales for sale.
Mixed bales and badly-classed lots are
appraised in the rough, except where the
broker takes the responsibility of send-
ing those lots for reclassing first. The
result is that the grower gets the low,
roughly-estimated price of the first ap-
praisement. Then the wool has to be
sent for sorting and pooling. The com-
mittees have appointed several repacking
firms in each centre to carry out this
work. Some day Australian woolgrowers
will want to know why this reclassing
was not done before appraisement. If all
mixed wools, butts, bags and badly-
classed lines that cannot be accurately
typed and valued were reclassed first and
incorporated in a pool if necessary, it
would need one appraisement only and
ensure full value to the grower.
Blowfly Technique.
“B-gar”: Jetting or crutching will each
give immunity about the breech for a
short period, but during abnormal fly
waves sheep are apt to get struck any-
where. Then sheep should be carefully
gone through every second day at least;
strike spreads rapidly. Where rams are
running with the breeders they should
be inspected closely, particularly about
the heads. With lambing ewes take
special notice of the backs of the udders.
When treating struck sheep, the wool
should be clipped close and well back
from the affected parts, the maggots
knocked off and the dressing applied both
to the wounds and a little away from
them. Remember, you won’t cure a sheep
with one treatment.
Grass-seeds in sheep’s eyes cause
watery matter to run and wet the wool;
strikes are likely near the muzzle. Re-
move any grass-seeds from the eyes, treat
any adjacent strike and put a little dry
boracic powder in the eyes.
Wherever possible, burn all carcasses
and spray the residue with a strong dis-
infectant.
A National Matter.
“Ben C.”: N. S. Wales has set up a
Soil Conservation Service. It is an
addition to the excessive number of State
departments, and has a will of its own,
though why it should have been removed
from the Department of Agriculture is
"Not today, thanks, it doesn't keep this hot Weather .”
a mystery. E. S. Clayton is head of the
Service There is little hope of his
achieving anything of lasting value until
he has the power, as have shire councils
and Pastures Protection Boards oyer
rabbits and noxious weeds, of compelling
private landholders to stop practices
known to contribute to erosion.
Erosion and its control are tied up with
pasture improvement, fodder conserva-
tion, wise stocking, retention of fertility,
cropping technique and weed eradication.
Every drought increases erosion because
there is always somebody caught heavily
stocked and without fodder reserves or
the credit to acquire them. The stock
flog the paddocks out, the surface be-
comes dust, and the first heavy downpour
washes off what surface soil the wind has
not already blown away. If stocking
were strictly supervised and the land-
holder compelled to carry adequate
fodder reserves, erosion would be con-
siderably reduced.
Nearly every cultivation paddock has
at least one slope. How is the Conser-
vation Service going to make a farmer
put in contour furrows instead of work-
ing the ground in the old way with the
risk of gullying? How make him realise
that he has a duty to keep the land intact
for those who will follow him? How
make those who control unused land get
rid of rabbits and weeds and plant pas-
tures to bind the soil?
In the “better-rainfall areas” erosion
is just as severe as in the outback. The
cause has been denudation of timber and
(again) overgrazing of the native grasses.
Replacement of timber is a matter of
years, with erosion going on all the time.
Plant the timber, yes, but as an imme-
diate corrective strong pasture plants
must be grown, and not grazed until
they have firmly established themselves.
This, together with contour banking.
Erosion is a national, not a State
matter, and its prevention and control
should be one of the most important
functions of the Federal Government.
When the great blow began in America
about six years ago, and parts of
Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Okla-
homa and Texas were turned into a “dust
bowl,” the U.S. Government placed its
Department of Agriculture in control.
Today farmers are taking 20-bushel wheat
crops as well as crops of sorghum, maize
and cotton from the area. Terracing, con-
tour-tillage, strip-cropping, rough tillage,
use of crop residues for restoring fertility
and regulated grazing were the most im-
portant means adopted. Farmers were
taught to work their paddocks so that
every drop of water was held in the soil.
The contour system was introduced on
grazing lands. Much of the cultivation
land was sown with pasture grasses and
allowed to revert to grazing. More than
50,000,000 trees were planted in belts.
Their part will come in breaking the wind
and precipitating rain, and their leaves
will have a function in restoring soil fer-
tility.
America conquered its dust bowl, but
landowners have been warned that any
slackening of the soil and water-conser-
vation practices will ruin all the good
work. Soil conservation in Australia gets
little publicity. It is of grave national
urgency. For a minor State department
to mess about with it is little short of a
tragedy.
No Restriction.
“B. Cubbin”: Priminister Menzies has
given it out that restriction of wheat
acreage is on the cards for next year.
There should be no thought of it.
If export markets should fail Australia
could absorb very much more grain.
Apart from expansion of pig-production
on wheat-farms, there is wide scope for
wheat usage in sheep country, and for
fattening cattle in coastal districts.
Our sheep country is never free from
dry spells. Almost annually there is
serious loss of sheep in some part of
Australia because of feed shortage. In
a proper system of fodder storage wheat
would play an important part. It should
be possible to establish storage plants in
the drier areas of the sheep country.
Initial cost would be heavy, perhaps, but
the saving of sheep life over subsequent
years would more than compensate for it.
Efficiently stored, the wheat does not
need much attention to keep it in good
order, and a store once established would
be easily maintained from year to year.
A bushel of wheat can keep a sheep for
a month, provided there is some rough-
age to be had, and at the ruling home
price for the grain the grazier would do
well. Cost of transport from silo to
station could be made reasonable under
existing drought-concession freight rates
on railways.
Apart from the possibilities of using
wheat other than as flour, there is no
telling what next season might bring
forth. Crops may fail in other lands;
the war may develop to such an extent
that the world will want all the wheat
it can get. Mr. Menzies
should not mention restric-
tion again until every pos-
sible field for the utilisa-
tion of wheat has been
thoroughly examined.
Turnips and Carrots.
“Z e d o”: Australian
farmers have a lot to
learn about root crops —
mangolds, swedes, carrots,
artichokes and sweet pota-
toes. Save for artichokes,
all make good rotational
crops, and in all European
countries they are im-
portant in cattle-raising.
The Aberdeenshire Short-
horn man would as soon
lose his grass as his
“neaps.”
Swedes, mangolds, car-
rots and turnips are suit-
able for planting in most
N.S.W., S. Queensland
and Victorian farming dis-
tricts from January to March and again
throughout the spring to October.
Carrots, in tableland districts, may be
sown in November and December.
Ordinary turnips do not keep as well
as swedes, which make good winter
grazing and are favorites with sheep ', but
they are early maturing and help to widen
the period during which root supplies
are available. Swedes and turnips will
not affect the milk from dairy cattle if
they are fed directly after milking. Arti-
chokes make specially good pig feed.
Dennis loves rooting them out.
For sheep, it is best to graze the tops
with natural pasture, cultivation gradually
exposing the roots as the sheep eat down
below the surface. When handfed to
cattle, roots should be chopped small.
A lot of the failure with root crops and
particularly with carrots comes from lack
of soil preparation. The best soil is
moist fallow thoroughly tilled. An early
ploughing in spring or winter is needed
with several workings to follow, and the
seed may finally be sown in drills
a couple of feet apart or broadcast, with
or without fertiliser. Where hand-feed-
ing is intended, row sowing is better,
since it is thus easier to keep down weeds.
In wet districts use up to 21b. seed per


BE COOLTHIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS
IBn
PER PATR
fds
Suit your footwear to the weather. Do away with tired feet in the
Summertime by wearing Sandals. They’re serviceable and comfortable;
just the things to wear for coolness and ease. And as they are Abbey
Sandals they will give long-time wear.
"If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.’’
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.’’
A SELF-CONTAINED SANITARY SYSTEM—AFFRoVED BY BOARD OF HEALTH
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It—Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold —Shell Co., 64 Repeat Orders: Bank of N.S.W., 15.
ailfs
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
S>j
' v\
R . ''"Wm
//
Whai a Ch
arming Fireplace!
(
m
!
■■■
li, < V
■
1
m
■
-
Mmmmm
THE “ALLUSTRE”
@ Is the latest in English Room Furnishing.
£ It is made of fine iron handsomely enamelled with vitreous
enamel.
£ It will not fade, bloom, or chip and will last for generations.
Q The “Allustre” harmonises with furniture and furnishings
and creates an atmosphere of comfort and dignity; the
slow-burning grate provides a beautiful open fire.
Call and Inspect, there are Various Designs, also Building Supplies.
If Building, Write for Our Catalogue of “Modern Home Fittings.”
'PHONE: M 6505 (18 LINES).
LATE SHOPPING FRIDAY 8.30 P.M.
JOHN DANKS AND SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED i incorporated in victoria )
324-330 PITT STREET SYDNEY. ’PHONE: M 6505.
391-403 BOURKE STREET MELBOURNE. ’PHONE: M 2381.
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
acre, but on the tablelands lib. should
be enough. Add Hcwt. super.
Some N S.W. tableland farmers have
had great success with turnips. A. E.
Bigg, Armidale, grazed 2400 lambs for
a month and 2200 for another month on
13 acres of Purple Top swedes. Then
the roots were raised by cultivation and
1420 ewes were fed on the residue for
17 days. The sheep as well had natural
pasture and a bag of wheaten chaff per
100 sheep.
Land Clearing in Maoriland.
“Kiwi”: While the Commonwealth
Government is talking about war-time
restriction of some farm products, Maori-
land has 3800 men at work—another
1500 are shortly to be diverted from
public works schemes clearing and
draining private land to put it under
crops or stock. The Government is con-
tributing 75 per cent, of the wages cost,
the work being done on contract. The
balance is in many cases being provided
by financial institutions holding mort-
gages over the properties.
Bulldozers are used for the work, with
two shifts per day between sunrise and
sunset, two men per shift to each
machine. One block of 20 acres of
scrub, broom and blackberry was cleared
between Friday morning and Saturday
midday, disked and planted with grass
and root crops on Monday. It is claimed
that 10,000 men may soon be employed
on the work.
Some of the Australian State Govern-
ments might well copy the M.L. idea.
Land clearing and planting for beef fat-
tening in North Queensland would cer-
tainly pay. Queensland has an advantage,
too—most of its uncleared area is Crown
land.
Hints for the Farm.
“Lam”: It’s the season for Darling
pea. Root it out wherever it’s found.
When it pods it is a sure sheep poisoner,
and there is no known treatment save
removing animals early to a paddock
vvhere the pest does not exist. Give the
sick sheep shade and access to cool
water and they usually will get well.
“T’bah”: Hoary cress, one of the
worst weed pests of southern wheat lands,
has appeared on the Downs (Q.). Unless
checked it may cause enormous loss.
Isolated plants can be cut off below
ground, but for large patches an arsenical
spray is recommended.
. “Fiah”: If you have to use explosives
to blow out postholes in stony ground,
make sure to count the charges carefully
and check by the number of explosions.
A handy method is to have a tally stick
to drop for each shot. And don’t let off
too many plugs at one firing.
“0.D.”: A neighbor who employed a
number of men for the wheat harvest
took extra precautions against fire by
allowing the men regular brief smoking
periods. All had to get together in an
open space, have their smoke, then hand
butts, pipes and matches to the boss. He
put pipes and matches in a tin box till
they were wanted again, and buried all
butts.
“Theo”: It’s a good idea to fit a water
gauge on an elevated tank fed by a
mechanical pump. Mark off a piece of
straight timber and fix it to the tank
side. Then get a piece of flat iron for
a marker, attach it to some window cord
with a sealed bottle at the other end, first
running the cord through a small pulley
at the top of the board. Make sure the
marker and the bottle float counter-
balance each other so that the marker
will move up and down the board as the
float rises or falls in the tank. To keep
the marker in position strips of timber
can be used to make free grooves down
each side of the board. The gadget will
show at a glance any need for shutting
off the windmill or engine.
“S.H.C.”: Leather is likely to be scarce
and dearer as the war goes on. Save all
scraps, broken straps, old boots, etc.
They’ll be handy for washers, patches and
the hundred other things leather is
wanted for on the farm.
“Clyde”: Often a good deal of time
is lost yarding the working horses on
mornings when they feel a bit skittish.
From the yard down one side of the
horse paddock, parallel and about a chain
from the existing fence, run a lightning
fence, leaving it open at the far end.
Then run your nags along the paddock
fence, and they will be in the lane and
under your control before they know it.
Curiously enough, horses never seem to
wake up to this trap.
“Mulyan”: Any rough hay shed can
be made mice-proof when building.
Split rails, free of splinters, and 9in.
apart, will make the sides, with an iron
roof projecting well over them. The
sides may be completely open if not
accessible to stock; but rails save the
trouble of trimming the hay. The floor
should be about 18in. off the ground.
Split slabs are suitable, but they must fit
closely together, leaving no holes where
wisps of hay would poke through and
provide ladders for mice to climb.
Don’t allow straws to hang down on the
outside, nor weeds nor tussock grass to
grow near by. All blocks and bottoms
of uprights must be covered with tin.
A kerosene tin or oil drum dropped on
like a hood does for each block. If you
want to stop mice or snakes from
getting under the stack, instead of sheath-
ing the blocks and posts tack galvanised
iron horizontally all round the outside,
tarring the bottom edge and sinking
about 6in. in the ground. This is the
best protection for open stacks in the
paddock.
“Yeno Ham”: If wooden troughs have
to be used in a piggery discard them as
soon as they crack. Pigs carry infection
on their feet, and cracked troughs pro-
vide a harbor and breeding-ground for
germs. Best troughs are made of con-
crete or seamless steel: have a concrete
feeding platform at least 6in. above the
level of the yard and 2ft. around the
troughs. Wash the troughs out with boil-
ing water and washing soda, and wash
the feeding platform daily.
“Zedo”: Corriedales are putting up
good performances in this year’s shear-
ing. Matthews and Crawford, Nar-
romine (N.S.W.), recently shore 50 four-
tooth Dulla Dulla flock rams for an aver-
age of 211 b. wool. R. C. Hopkins, of
Errowanbang, Carcoar, cut 12 months’
wool, weighing 251 b., off another Dulla
Dulla ram, and a ewe produced 191 b.
from a year’s growth.
“Dermat”: If mycotic dermatitis was
highly infectious whole flocks would soon
become affected (B. 22/11 / ’39). Both the
casual organism of m.d. and the blowfly
thrive in a wet summer, and yarding and
handling to dress struck sheep should aid
the spread of any infectious skin disease.
I find the percentage of infection no
greater among frequently yarded mobs
than lots seldom yarded. That in drier
years only an odd sheep is affected sug-
gests that the wog is present in or on the
skin all the time waiting for favorable
breeding conditions. Long, dense-woolled
sheep are most susceptible.
“Wester”: Bordan wheat took first and
second places in the R.A.S. contest on
the N.S.W. central slopes this year. The
19 districts represented had among them
seven crops of Bencubbin, five of Ford,
three of Dundee, three of Bordan and
one of the old Yandilla King. The cham-
pion Bordan crop, grown by Billy O’Neil
at Cowra, may exceed 50 bushels an
acre, that grown by Chris Lodge at Mul-
yandry may beat 45. Bordan is strong-
strawed, grows tall, resists flag smut, is
fairly resistant to stem rust, matures in
mid-season and is a bag-filler when con-
ditions are right.
“Brolga”: The tobacco-grower will
bless the import licensing system, if, as
is likely, tobacco is to be among the
restricted items. In 1938-39 Australia
bought about £1,750,000 worth of tobacco
from the United States. Increased
demand for the homegrown product
should result not only in a rise in price
but also in a sadly-needed stabilisation of
the industry and in a more concerted
effort to improve on curing and methods
of cultivation and to tackle the diseases
which still hamper production.
“B-gar”: Tell “Goulburn” (B.
18 /11/ ’39) we don’t poison cockspur out
this way, south-west Riverina: it’s too
valuable as stock feed. Even when dry
both horses and cattle relish cockspur;
during the drought period of last year
it was a great standby for working horses,
The trouble with the law relating to
noxious weeds is that in some districts
they’re an admitted pest, whereas in
others some may be of value in lean
periods.
QUESTIONS ANSWERED.
(Transferred from Service Department.)
(1) What prices are paid to landowners for
the right to gather grass seeds —perennial rye
and sub. clover? (2) What is a good yield of
sub. clover and per. rye seeds? (3) What
alterations are needed to a header to take off
rye seed, and type of thresher used for sub.
clover ? —5399.
(1) Depends on district, quality and quantity
of seed. Suggest if you have large quantity
you call tenders. (2) A good crop of perennial
rye is 20 bushels per acre and of sub. clover
3501 b. per acre. (3) In adjusting a header for
rye grass the comb should be set well open to
permit the straw to come back to the knife.
The minimum of blast is needed on the
riddles, and blast cut-offs should be fitted on
both sides of the fan openings. This may still
allow too much wind and a board should be
arranged to cover the opening from the fan
case except lin. at the bottom. Slots should be
cut for the steel vertical deflectors. The board
should be made so that it can readily be re-
moved, as chaff may block up behind it. With
the Sunshine machine, the following riddles
should be used: bottom 15-16 in. x 3-32 in. slot
punched, top iin. round hole extended riddle.
A strong wind will adversely affect the riddle
box, and a canvas screen should be fiUed. The
thresher most commonly used for sub. clover
is the Keisler, obtainable from Keisler Bros.,
Ambleside, S.A. The price is about £275, plus
freight, about £4O.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4 id. per line;
all others at 2|d. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published are not disqualified.
Double rates go to J. Mahoney (N.S.W.) for his interesting record of a “straw
vote” on an issue that has taken hold on the Australian imagination.
A Straw Vote
A few weeks ago The Bulletin pub-
lished for me a request that I would like
to hear from people who favored the
abolition of State Parliaments. The result
was astonishing, even to one who knew
of the strong feeling throughout the Com-
monwealth that unnecessary and expen-
sive Parliaments should be scrapped. The
only two States from which I have not
received replies were Tasmania and
Westralia.
Prospectors, laborers, a merchant sea-
man, civil servants, business people,
journalists, men of independent means
and old-age pensioners were among those
who wrote, but the strongest feelings were
expressed by farmers and graziers in
N. S. Wales and Queensland. The man
on the land, evidently, is heartily sick of
paying for Governments which he regards
as useless luxuries. I did not get one
letter opposing abolition —all were un-
compromisingly in favor.
One Victorian asked for help in getting
a job so that he could devote time and
money to the campaign. “I feel that any
schoolteacher would be prepared to sup-
port a movement designed to place edu-
cation under Federal control. We labor
under severe difficulties, which, we feel
sure, would be largely removed by
Federal control of Education,” wrote a
southern N. S. Wales teacher. A Queens-
land fruitgrower declared that the
amount of money wasted by State Gov-
ernments was scandalous.
“Good for you, State Parliaments are
a damn’ curse,” wrote another Banana-
lander. “I am an old ’un. I voted against
Federation as I wanted unification, and
I have advocated unification ever since,”
stated a N. S. Wales dairy farmer. “As
one who earns his salary, and is accord-
ingly taxed, in halt a dozen States, any
suggestion you have for abolishing State
Parliaments will be supported by me.
One hundred per cent, of the inter-State
mercantile marine personnel is with you,”
wrote a coastal seaman.
A Sydney man warned of opposition
by saying that “Politicians will make the
excuse that, while war is on, existing con-
ditions should not be dislocated. They’ll
try to ride this stalking horse to safety.”
Without exception, the writers promised
to support any movement having the
abolition of State Parliaments for its ob-
jective. Some promised finance, and
others forwarded names of friends who
are in favor. I am doing my best to link
my unknown friends up with an organi-
sation which is devoting its efforts to the
scrapping of the unpopular encum-
brances. — James Mahoney (N.S.W.).
Winners address is 35 James Street,
West Ryde.
Pneumonic Plague
One lesson of the last war which ap-
pears to have left no impression is the
pneumonic plague which swept the whole
world. There were the usual fantastic
explanations for it. The Germans, of
course, were blamed, also sinister winds
from Africa, and doctors traced it to be
a “virus” for which they had no atom of
evidence.
Well, everybody is entitled to a guess,
and mine is that it was due to diet defi-
ciency. In the last 20 years great strides
have been made in the investigation of
this subject, conclusively proving that
lack of vitamins in an otherwise ample
diet robs the body of its natural ability
to kill germs before they get a foothold.
This country is wasting untold money
through ill-health when a tenth of that
sum spent in educating the public would
enable most of the hospitals to be closed
down. More people died from pneu-
monic plague during and after the war
than were killed in it. Now is the time
to prepare our defences —not when it is
too late.—X. Ray (N.S.W.).
The School Exam. System
Some 18 months ago the school-exami-
nation system was assailed on all sides
by savants who recognised its inade-
quacies and injustices, but failed to sug-
gest a practical alternative to intermediate
and leaving-certificate exams. All agreed,
however, that exams, should be modified
prior to ultimate abolition. The authori-
ties replied by making the intermediate
optional, but worldly-wise third-year stu-
dents, urged by the fact that employers
demand tangible evidence of scholarship,
are unanimous in their desire to sit for it.
The authorities have now gone a step
further by instituting an additional exam.
—the lower leaving certificate at the end
of fourth year —while still retaining the
fifth year (higher) leaving for those wish-
ing to enter professions via the Uni.
Apart from the fact that a stronger spate
of semi-educated youths will be pre-
maturely released to swell the ranks of
juvenile unemployed, there seems nothing
in the scheme.
Most likely it will die of inanition, as
few will waste the extra year and thus
handicap themselves in the keen competi-
tion for positions with their contempor-
aries who leave immediately after the
intermediate is over. —B.Ec. (N.S.W.).
Light Wines for the Troops
The Australian’s passion for tea —
which we buy from countries with whom
we have a very adverse trade balance —
is now costing him a lot of money since
the price has risen appreciably.
Our A.I.F. and militiamen drink
gallons of exceptionally strong tea and
howl for a “wet” canteen, so, as an ex-
periment, why not issue some with Aus-
tralian light wines instead of tea. If the
experiment proved only partly successful
it would retain thousands of pounds nor-
mally expended on tea within Australia
besides giving our wine industry a much-
needed boost.
And, incidentally, the aperient powers
of wines render them especially suitable
for camping men whose livers are often
inclined to become sluggish.— Petermac
(N.S.W.).
Compensatory Effort
Criticising the facile ability of some
politicians, an O.F.M. contributor re-
cently cited the case of a man who got
into financial difficulties yet considered
himself capable of administering the
affairs of State. Why shouldn’t he? Such
a man has great possibilities, because of
his very personal shortcomings.
Marx was always “broke,” and the
family furniture was in and out of pawn
when the generous loans from his friend
and collaborator Engels were not forth-
coming. But here is the point. Marx
could not run his own affairs effi-
ciently, yet, by magnificent overcompen-
sation, he developed a complete economic
science.
Lord Kelvin is alleged to have been
incapable of remembering simple multi-
plication tables. He was a mathematical
genius who cOuld devise and do wonders
with the calculus. Sigmund Freud admits
his inability to get on with some of his
near relations. Freud, however, developed
a method of resolving emotional conflict
in others similarly placed.
These are examples of what compen-
sation does do for the apparent misfits.
It is a simple axiom of modern psycho-
logy that the inferior often become the
effectively superior. Take topical in-
stances like Hitler and Musso. Fiihrer
was a misfit for years. His very inferior-
ity made him strive for power and per-
sonal efficiency. He is a classic example
of inferiority feelings supplying the will
to compensatory effort.
The Duce’s early years were not re-
markable. But his apparent incapacity
to stick at any job, even schoolteaching
and offsiding to bricklayers, later brought
him to a situation where he would either
have to develop guts or stay in his own
rut. Even to-day his very megalomaniac
boasting betrays the goad of inferiority
that drove him on.
Sport and athletics are rich in examples
of apparent misfits who reach the top
through compensation for earlier physi-
cal disability. Have you noticed how
many short-sighted people are literary or
widely read, how many cripples are ex-
cellent billiard-players or adroit with
their hands? Superiority springs first
from a sense of inadequacy. — Halbert
(Vic.).
A.B.C. News
The A.8.C., much as its bureaucratic
controllers delight in presuming to the
contrary, is the property of the nation. It
derives its revenue from license fees paid
by individual Australians of every shade
of religious and political opinion. It
has no mandate to be an apologist for any
particular cause, and it has no authority
to pursue a one-sided policy which is not
subscribed to by many of its listeners—
who pay through the nose to keep it
alive.
The least one may demand of the
Commission is that news be accurate and
presented without bias or prejudice. List-
eners, however, are compelled to suffer
the outpourings of skilled commentators
who use the news to build up their
own fanciful theories. Let the daily
press abuse its freedom if it will, but the
national service should be like Caesar’s
wife.
The profits of A.B.C. are such that it
should be able to acquire the 8.8. C.
copyright. There should be sufficient
left over to introduce its own overseas
news service and set up its own local
reporting branch. Provided that its
eminent commentators were debarred
from seeking positions on the reporting
staff, the Australian people might secure
a service capable of placing the true
facts before them. — Idiotes (N.S.W.).
W.A. Grievances
Elements that might start another
secession stream flowing in W.A. are (1)
manufacture of military requirements
in Eastern States’ factories which might
well be entrusted to W.A. factories, in-
cluding lorries, drays, etc.; (2) hold-
up of wheat because growers are re-
sentful of the price offered by the Federal
Government; (3) wool appraisement
at Fremantle only and not also at Albany
and Geraldton; and (4) increased
freights on W.A. products to Eastern
States.
There are other grievances, but these
would make a solid block for the dis-
senters if any sign of depression comes in
the wake of the war. Already old seces-
sionists have ticked these items off for
forensic attention. The Federal Govern-
ment by a little warmth in its professed
sympathies could do much to destroy the
causes for discontent. — Bill Ding (W.A.).
The Prohibition Farce
Prohibition is the most discredited of
all social reforms. The public mind links
it with the wowser element, which wishes
to ban nearly all forms of amusement,
recreation and jollification. In America
it spawned the worst wave of crime and
the biggest gangs of criminals the world
has ever known; in Australia the pro-
hibitionists have wasted huge sums of
money, not only their own funds, but
those of the public, by calling for
referendums which are always heavily
defeated at the polls.
Prohibitionists aim at total elimination
of manufacture and sale of drinks con-
taining alcohol. They go for this goal
bullheaded and will not be content with
gradual reforms. Naturally, like all
extremists, they defeat their object by
stirring up popular antagonism towards
them and their cause.
If I had anything to do with leading
this fight the first step I would take
would be the provision of substitutes. We
have a hot and thirsty summer climate,
and the popularity of the milk and orange
bars shows that the people will rush a
good non-intoxicating drink. I would do
my utmost to get legislation introduced
to make it compulsory for cordial-makers
to use only the juice of the fruit named
on the label of their drink. Many drinks
are the product of the chemical labora-
tory.
The next step would be to buy hotels
as they come on the market. All but
one in each suburb, district or country
town would be closed and the remaining
one would, in future, be run on the Trust
House lines which have proved so suc-
cessful at Renmark and other River
Murray towns. The people of Renmark
own their fine hotel; it is the only one
in the town, and the way in which it is
run is an object lesson to the trade in
general. Its profits, which have been as
high as £BOOO a year, are divided among
the district hospital, civic improvements
and local charities. The hotel retains
sufficient to keep its premises up to date
and to make any necessary additions.
If prohibitionists worked on those
lines part of the profits from their hotels
could be paid into a fund to be devoted
to buying others and the remaining
money could be devoted to deserving
causes. Every reasonable man or woman
would support such a scheme, and it
would bring to the cause of liquor reform
thousands of people who now spurn the
prohibitionist and all his works.
Lastly, I would insist that every wow-
ser activity be disassociated from the
work of liquor-trade reform. Every
cause with which this element associates
itself is doomed, for it is against nearly
everything which makes life worth living.
It has ranted against mixed bathing, sen-
sible bathing costumes and dances, and,
if wowsers had their way, our Sunday
would be a day of gloom instead of
being, as at present, the one free day in
the week and the happiest of the seven.
—Tompion (S.A.).
“Positions Vacant”
When are all these new industries to
have any material effect on the unem-
ployment problem, and what effect will
they have? I have been watching the
papers for a long time now for a job, and
I reckon I know all the perpetual vacan-
cies in Sydney, including those wonder-
ful eight to twenty pounds a week jobs
advertised every Wednesday and Satur-
day and open to any man, woman or
child who can afford to wear out shoe
leather to give a free advertisement to
certain goods.
I have been taking a rough sort of
census over the past couple of months
and find there are 1400 to 1500 positions
on the card each Wednesday. My census
reveals: Commission jobs, 84 ; adult male
(many could be junior), 187 ; boys, 384 ;
adult female (as with male), 397 ; girls,
449. There you have 846 females wanted
against 571 males, of whom not more
than 1C7 could be normal family bread-
winners. From another angle 584 pos-
sible adults can get jobs, while 833 juniors
are wanted. If you care to include the
situations vacant column, the propor-
tion goes up with a rush. There 126
females are wanted against 33 males,
most of whom are boys or old-age pen-
sioners.
Mr. Dole is due for a lot more rela-
tions in the very near future unless some-
thing drastic is done to rectify the posi-
tion.—Nisio (N.S.W.).
Tipping Contests
Twelve months ago the N.S.W. Gov-
ernment set out on a much-needed
crusade to clean up s.p. betting. This on-
slaught has been but mildly successful,
but at least it has done no harm. There
is one feature of the Act, however, which
tends to encourage s.p. rather than curb
it. I refer to the ban on tipping con-
tests, formerly promoted by newspapers
with a view to boosting sales. Down on
the Yarra these contests have become an
institution, and also enjoy wide popu-
larity in the neighboring States where
the Melbourne sporting papers circulate.
Entry is free, and so one is provided
with an interest in every race on the
programme without risking a penny,
while there is always the chance, albeit
small, of winning a decent prize. De-
prived of this amusement, it is only
natural the small-wage earner will seek
to gratify his desire to be interested in
several races by putting a shilling or
two on his fancies —shillings which he
may not be able to afford.
Even the cast-iron model legislation of
Forgan Smith retained this safety valve ;
these harmless competitions were not sup-
pressed. The N.S.W. Government would
be wise to relax its prohibition also. —
Ricardo (N.S.W.).
Wanted, a “Bulletin” Omnibus
One of the most pleasing features of
Australian school life is the frequency
with which individual citizens present
prizes for one thing or another. That is
the reason my daughter, aged 15, came
home with a prize recently. I have no-
thing but admiration for the generous
citizen who sees fit to award a prize for
sport or any other school attainment. At
the same time, why cannot more suitable
books be selected for these prizes—pref-
erably good Australian books?
The “omnibus” books, consisting of
English and American stories, so popular
for prizes just now, are unsuitable on
two scores. First, they are not nearly
well enough written for boys and girls
of secondary-school standard ; and, sec-
ondly, they deal with events and places
the pupils cannot fully enjoy. “What is
baseball?” one lad asked when he re-
ceived as prize a book of baseball
stories. “And why can’t we 'have a
Bulletin Omnibus Book?” my daughter
suggested. Which prompted me to pass
on the idea, for it is a good one. That
children do support Australian writers is
obvious from the well-worn condition of
school library copies of Mary Grant


Bruce, Ethel Turner, Idriess and other
Australian authors I have seen from time
to time. Prizes are books meant to be
kept and cherished, and the youngsters
can stand good books. They can appre-
ciate G. B. Lancaster, Miles Franklin,
Henry Lawson, Victor Daley, Randolph
Bedford, Dal Stivens, John Dailey and
a score of other Bulletin story-writers
whose work had given their parents
pleasure. It may need careful selection,
but such a volume is long overdue. —W.
(N.S.W.).
United from the First Shot
Britons have entered this war far
more united than was the case in 1914.
The Great War came as a profound
shock to most people in British countries.
Not only were they unprepared for its
outbreak, but they found themselves
fighting a people who for generations had
been their allies, whom they had been
taught to look on as the greatest in
Europe, and whom they personally liked.
Many English intellectuals, particularly
on the Liberal side, regarded Germany
as their spiritual home, and socialists
also tended to look to that country for
inspiration. Quite a number of the pro-
Germans did their best, so far as cir-
cumstances permitted, to hinder the
British war effort by pacifist and defeat-
ist propaganda. Such propaganda led to
considerable industrial unrest, and there
were several large-scale strikes in Eng-
land—and in Australia as well.
Nothing of the sort is likely to happen
this time, for Hitler’s Germany has no
deadlier enemies in England than the
Liberals and Laborites, while it has never
been able to count on any great measure
of support among other sections of poli-
tical thought. Its sympathisers in Eng-
land have been few in number and have
lacked a press to state their case.
From the day Hitler took office prac-
tically the whole press of the British
Empire has been consistent in hostility
to him. As a result, those whose ideas
on foreign affairs are moulded by their
daily paper—the great majority—had
come to regard him as a menace to the
well-being of the world long before he
had been guilty of any action calculated
to make an unbiased observer form that
opinion.—D. Aitch (N.S.W.).
New Coins
This country could do worse than
follow the example of Maoriland in de-
signing a new set of coins. Of course
we have a new set, but the designs mean
little when they should be a great adver-
tisement for the country.
I would suggest a wombat for the
ha’penny, a kangaroo for the penny (the
present one would do), an emu for three-
pence, a koala for sixpence, a platypus
for the shilling, a lyrebird for the florin,
a waratah for the crown, and for the
sovereign (if they are ever minted again)
nothing could be better than a King
Billy throwing a boomerang.—W. P. T.
(N.S.W.).
Clanny
I wrote to an old cobber who is sub-
editing on a large paper in the North of
England and asked the prospects of plac-
ing topical Australian articles and
sketches with his paper. A pregnant
extract from his reply is: “To be honest,
old man, it has never been a policy of
ours to purchase material submitted by
Empire or foreign writers. They’re a
devilish clanny lot in this neighborhood,”
etc.
I’ve decided to send a copy of Sydney’s
new “Sunday Telegraph” to this old mate
of mine, and I’ll await his reply in glee-
ful anticipation. He’s a dinki-di Northum-
brian. — Zend-Avesta (Q.).
Getting Together
Several times recently I have heard
Cabinet Ministers tell the people through
the A.B.C. how anxious they were to
get pally with the masses. One went so
far as to suggest that nothing would
please him better than to be able to dis-
cuss personally the grievances of each
individual.
Safely ensconced in the A.B.C.’s broad-
casting studio, it is a fairly simple matter
to tell the people how much you love
them, and what you would do to make
their lives happier if only it could be
arranged. But try to see the same Cabi-
net Minister in his office during legiti-
mate interviewing hours and you’ll be
lucky if you get past his third or fourth
secretary. Or address a letter on behalf
of a representative body and see how
anxious he is personally to discuss these
grievances.
Whenever a politician comes to the
microphone to tell me what a good fellow
I am, and how anxiously he needs my
co-operation, I am always tempted to
work out on my calendar how long it
will be to the next elections, and to check
my grocery list for those commodities
which haven’t already been taxed to the
limit—experience shows that either elec-
tions or fresh taxation is related to the
microphone habit.
The cause of Australia’s bureaucratic
muddle is already too well known to be
mentioned here, but if you doubt its
existence try to put through some com-
plicated company business at the State
Registrar-General’s Department without
the costly aid of a solicitor. Then you’ll
see departmental overlapping, sidestep-
ping and the official apathy and discour-
tesy which are possible only in a country
where the public-service vote is sufficient
to make every puny official a would-be
dictator in his department.
As for getting pally with a Cabinet
Minister, the nearest I ever got to one
was on November 11, when he was lay-
ing a wreath on the Cenotaph and I was
on the other side of a rail barrier and
kept there by a line of burly constables.
—Celt (N.S.W.).
Key Men
If the Munich bombing was a genuine
attempt to assassinate Hitler, those re-
sponsible were misdirecting their energies.
To kill the Fiihrer now would merely
make a martyr of the man in the eyes
of his people.
During the last war the L70, Ger-
many’s best and latest dirigible, was de-
stroyed by British airmen, but her loss
was not a major disaster, for other diri-
gibles were being built. But Germany
could not replace Captain Strasser, the
commander of the wrecked airship,
who carried on airship designing from
where Count Zeppelin left off. He also
organised many air raids on Britain, one
of his greatest gifts being outstanding
ability as a meteorologist, which enabled
him to select the best weather conditions
for air raids.
If there really are people who are
trying to destroy Hitlerism from within
they should leave the figureheads alone
and try to get the “men behind the men
behind the guns” who work in draught-
ing offices, in dockyards, munition plants
and aircraft factories.
To become a dictator you need only
determination, ruthlessness and the
power to sway a mob, and there are
always plenty of men able and willing
to step into a dead tyrant’s shoes, but
the genius who designs better weapons
than those of the enemy is irreplaceable.
—Carrick, A.B. (S.A.).
Superstitions
A few years ago our ideas regarding
the spilling of salt, walking beneath lad-
ders, etc., were silly enough but quite
harmless. But fashions in superstition,
like fashions in dress, demand change
and variety, so some blunderer exhumed
the old zodiacal cult.
This creed may have worked satis-
factorily enough for the ancient
Babylonians, Greeks and Egyptians, who
agreed that each person born during a
certain period or beneath a particular
star should be endowed with certain
qualities and be deficient in others.
But the old superstition is being ac-
cepted by moderns. Believers will refuse
propositions because they are received on
“bad days” ; business must be postponed
to conform with the prescribed time of
the stars, and unsuspecting persons are
regarded suspiciously because they hap-
pened to have been born beneath a par-
ticular sign.
And astrologers make money. News-
papers employ them and broadcasting
stations encourage them. C. Eastern
(Vic.).
Yes, Local Color
Answering “D.’s” “Local Color?”
(B. 11/10/’39), I hasten to state that my
par. was not to explain genius but to
state a difficulty. An author who has
no intimate knowledge of scenes he writes
about can succeed in painting only a copy
and not an original.
At any rate, Kingsley came from a
West Indian family, was an enthusiastic
student of natural history and geology,
and was born in the fens of Devon, which
country approximates in natural features
the South American territory of which
he wrote. And I would take a bit of
convincing that the North Devon descrip-
tions in Two Years Ago are not far more
realistic than the American descriptions
in Westward Ho! W. H. G. Kingston
did have a practical knowledge of the
sea, otherwise he couldn’t have written
sea stories so convincingly. His life was
bound up with seamen and their activi-
ties —he spent his youth in Oporto, Por-
tugal, and, presumably, he didn’t get there
by rail.
Of R. M. Ballantyne it is said that “his
rule in every case was to write as far as
possible from personal knowledge of the
scenes he described.” None of his books,
including The Coral Island, is quite so
convincing as Ungava : A Tale of Eskimo
Land, written round scenes familiar to
him. Henry Handel Richardson knew
Australia, its customs and its ideals as
it has been the privilege of few women
to know it and them. — Jannell (N.S.W.).
Childless Couples
There must be many childless couples
in Australia who could easily afford to
adopt one or two children, and it is un-
fair to contemplate taxing the bachelor
when other members of the community
are also evading their responsibilities.
In orphanages there are hundreds of
kiddies whose hearts yearn for the affec-
tion of foster-parents who often prefer to
lavish it on Pekinese. If we tax the
bachelor why not tax those who refuse
to sacrifice a little comfort and ease in
favor of having or adopting children? —
Petermac (N.S.W.).
Books for Youngsters
A. A. Milne has a lot to answer for.
Ever since the appearance of his poems
When We Were Very Young children
have been stuffed with poems or near-
poems about dear little Agatha Annes or
Henry Johns hopping, jumping or per-
forming some other “pretty” trick.
It is taking too much for granted to
assume that natural children take a con-
suming interest in the doings of other
children if they are just being children
like themselves. When left alone what
are they at their games? Christopher
Robins, Shirley Temples, Bobby Breens?
No! Tramguards, aviators, Florence
Nightingales, Marco Polos, pirates, lions
or God, according to age and tempera-
ment.
When We Were Very Young implies
a looking backward which no normal
child does for a moment. He has his
eyes fixed on the day after to-morrow.
Most of the “pretty-pretty” poems and
stories written for children should be
kept for wistful grown-ups —it is they
who play the “do you remember” games.
Children on the whole are free from
the adult vice of sentimentality. They
are robust little savages with imagina-
tions. Of course we hopped as children,
and of course we walked on stones all
the way to school when we had time, but
we’d have been amazed if anyone had
asked us to learn a poem about it. No,
children need stronger fare, stories and
poems full of zest and speed—
But hark, the cry is Astur!
And lo! the ranks divide!
And the great Lord of Luna
Comes with his stately stride.
To children poetry is mostly high-
sounding or lovely words to which the
meaning is secondary. And what could
be more satisfying than the chant
And in his hand he shakes the brand
Which none but he can wield.
The reader is Astur for a while, perhaps,
and Horatius most of the time, and I
doubt if the dramatisation of self saying
prayers can safely take its place—
Little boy kneels at the foot of his bed,
Droops on the little hands little gold head.
Hush! Hush! Whisper who dares!
Christopher Robin is saying his prayers.
Not that he shouldn’t say his prayers,
but he shouldn’t be encouraged to see
himself as a dear little boy with little
gold head while saying them.
I have noticed children always have an
unforced interest in tales of semi-human
animals, and Norman Lindsay’s Magic
Pudding, with its robust, gusty humor, is
surely the daddy of the lot —for Austra-
lian children, anyway. But Mr. Lindsay
would be asked to rewrite it, correcting
all the bad grammar and leaving out the
slang, and then it wouldn’t be a magic
pudding, but, perhaps, just a bread cus-
tard. —M. Kempster (N.S.W.).
Politics Without Tears
In these times when almost every poli-
tical “ism” lies hidden in a cloud of
dogma, I pass on the following political
formulas for those who like their politics
in the raw.
Socialism: You have two cows; you
give one to your neighbor. Communism:
You have two cows; you give both to
the Government and it gives you some
of the milk. Fascism: You have two
cows; you keep both, give the milk
to the Government and the Government
sells the milk to you. Nazism: You have
two cows; the Government shoots you
and takes the cows. New Deal: You
have two cows ; the Government shoots
one, milks the other and pours the milk
down the drain. Capitalism: You have
two cows; you sell one and buy a bull.
Douglas Credit: You have two cows, but
you don’t bother to milk them because
the Government gives you £5 per week.
And, with Democracy in Australia, my
cobber Bill says you have over 600 of
the cows who milk you dry. Wm.
Lynch (N.S.W.).
Youth and War
“Matalon” (B. 15/11/’39) won’t get us
in by beating the big drum or parading
publicity men or providing girls with
whole bolsters of white feathers. We
were brought up in post-war years to
believe that Germany as a natural enemy
was beaten. We were taught by impli-
cation there was no need for hate, and
so, like other unused faculties, hate in
us atrophied.
Then, too, the world revolted at the
idea of war as an instrument of national
policy. It was outlawed, by the Kellogg
Pact, and that had an incalculable effect
upon us.
We realised that man had something
of a common purpose. We found there
was more to be done in the world by
pulling together internationally than by
pulling asunder nationally. We learned
to be tolerant, and, being tolerant, our
dictionary didn’t define patriotism in the
same way as “Matalon’s.” We took it to
mean something in the nature of inter-
national service through national effort.
This age group, of course, is limited.
At a rough guess I should say it em-
braces those between 25 and 35. Under
that age you will get plenty of volun-
teers if you dress war up in pretty gar-v
ments, and over 35 you will find plenty
of volunteers to help in a jingo campaign.
All these reasons, of course, do not
override the convictions held by many
of us that Hitler will need to be crushed.
Many of us will go into this war because
we have intellectually persuaded our-
selves that we should do so. Those who
do will, perhaps, make better soldiers.
Others will not go into the war because
they are intellectually convinced that they
cannot believe in it. And white feathers
won’t budge them. —25 (Q.).
Misplaced' Charity
Most recent reply to our “populate-or-
perish” crusaders comes from Oxley (Q.).
The father of a family of nine was out
of work, because when he tried to work
he could not. Fear of starvation and
disease induced the parents to make some
effort to have the youngsters, all of tender
years, placed in homes “where they would
have some chance in the world.” The
sole means of subsistence of the family
was two pounds and some odd shillings
weekly.
The immediate and generous response
of Brisbane people shows that no Aus-
tralian community objects to a contri-
bution to relieve such distress as this.
What they do object to is having their
money grabbed from them to provide
showy and useless “works” somewhere
about election time to provide votes for
weak-minded and squander-mad State
members.
Now more than ever it is necessary to
conserve our youth and children. It
is not cant and claptrap they want, it’s
food.—V. P. B. (Q.).
Australian Writers
“Celt” has made an excellent sugges-
tion (B. 15/11 /’39) that “every daily
newspaper publish an Australian short
story in each issue,” but as long as the
syndicate rules the Inky Way he will
never see his suggestion put into practice.
It is against all the canons of big busi-
ness, as represented by Great Dailies,
to purchase home-grown stories at a
guinea a thousand words when they can
use syndicated material at microscopic
cost.
The dailies are not the only papers
at fault in this regard—weekly and
monthly periodicals carry two, three and
even more short stories written by non-
Australians and previously published
overseas. One flapper weekly which has
the effrontery to incorporate in its official
title the word “Australian” is at present
featuring a serial which ran in the
“Saturday Evening Post” as long ago as
January, 1938.
Assuming that the Government is
really serious about its policy of giving
the local writer a hand, the best way to
show it would be to prohibit the use of
syndicated material in the fiction section
of each daily, weekly and monthly in
the Commonwealth. If this were done
there would be no need for reluctant
grants, and the Australian writer would
have a reasonably wide market for his
produce.
There are few short-story writers to-
day who can better the work of such as
A. C. Headley, Osmar E. White, Murray
Tonkin, Freeman Sandom or John Guth-
rie, to name but a few of the regulars.
The work of these writers is featured
by only two or three Australian papers,
but it may be noted with pride that
these are not members of Octopus Press
Inc., but are pure-bred Australian pub-
lications of a standard seldom attained
by “chain newspapers.”-
NAIRB
(Vic.).


am
Xiady Keeble.
(Miss Lillah McCarthy.)
“Pelmanism makes
you do yoii/r best, and,
moreover, makes your
best better than you
thought it possible
to be.”
m
<yy
m
Mr. Compton
Mackenzie.
“Pelrnanism defi-
nitely cultivates the
imagination, and I do
not hesitate to say that
there is nobody who
would not benefit by a
Course
1
Canon Hannay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is valu-
able to all men and
women ... the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
I
HI
» m
li
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelman
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak 100
highly of it,”
3?
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
King Edward VII.
Professor of English
Literature at the Uni-
versity of Cambridge,
England, writes —
‘‘The Pelman Course
gave me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in youth,
would have saved me
more time and labor
than I can reckon.’ 1
Pelmanism develops tl
Self-Confidence
Concentration
Decisiveness
Self-Control
Judgment
Will-Power
Tact
Initiative
Social Ease
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments,
prices and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality
’4O
We know nothing yet about 1940 except that, like any
other span of time, it will have its depths and its shallows.
It is likely, however, that many of us will have our power
of self-management taxed to the utmost. Pelmanists are
advised to read Lessons 3, 4 and 10 so as to maintain the right attitude
of mind, keep their purposes clear and fortify their judgment.
The Usefulness of Pelmanism
Pelmanism is useful in all the affairs of life. That is its outstanding
recommendation to those who wish to make the best of themselves in
their occupations, in all their recreations, and in their social and cultural
relations.
Every line written in the Pelman Course is directly applicable to
some aspect of human life and conduct. The intention of every word
in the Course is to make clear to men and women the means by which
they can develop their powers to the fullest extent so that they can live
more happily and be more successful—so that, on the one hand, they
will make and use occasions for profit and advantage and, on the other
hand, be at ease in any company. Both conditions are necessary to
complete self-respect and a full life.
The student is not left to make the applications himself. An
experienced and sympathetic instructional staff shows him, in exact
detail, how to apply the principles of Pelmanism to his own circumstances
and aspirations. Thus every Pelman Course is an individual course.
Over and over again our correspondents say, in effect, “I feel that this
Course was prepared for me, and me only.” Substantially this is so, for
the instructional notes and letters of advice are entirely personal to the
individual; they are for him, and him only.
In ‘‘The Efficient Mind” this characteristic of the Pelman Course
is mentioned in most of the letters published. Valuable as the opinions
of prominent people are —and Pelmanism has the enthusiastic approval
of an extraordinarily large number of noted men and women—the
strongest recommendation that the readers of “The Bulletin” have is
this frequent reference by men and women of all classes and all occupa-
tions to the knowledge and experience of the Pelman Instructors.
Everyone who has read this far should get a copy of “The;
Efficient Mind” and give earnest consideration to using the Pelman
training as a means of equipping themselves to meet successfully their
responsibilities and their opportunities.
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
There are over half a million
Pelinanists, of whom more than
40,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne.
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to the Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 1933.
Nancy- - 1932. Paris - - - 1933.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
We shall be glad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
m
“Pelmanism gives a
mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them, rightly.'’
■
tj' ■ m
%
!**L ws
wwmmt
Dr. F. W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelmcmism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the hey
to his own career
m
lord Baden Powell.
‘‘No man—no matter
hout educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession—who seri-
ously takes up the
Course, can go through
it without improving
himself. :>
f
sdf
The Baroness Orczy.
“Pelmanism, h a s
meant to m.any just
the difference between
a life of mediocrity
a n'd disappointmen t
and one of prosperity
and triumph.”
To the Peluian Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
3!lf> Flinders Pane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
105
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
L JJ&
J
4m
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do riot miss a
single issue.
I enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30 /j
iV c® v
c°;
.
tA'"
xS-
.*' A 'S'WiC A \-r
\ 4>&f*
jr<->«y wv^
ot »» Q 'f:’"'‘
NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
Banjo Paterson s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra) .
‘


//'
R - V,^>'°'e^„eSe r '’ ,C 8
ft C
1lV»
-ts*
Set
v\c©
®e
ate
y^\te\ eSS c, etV \ce »- e , v \ce
te\eP
bone
VO
Sb'P s
V/tte
He*
f\V'
&t
\ess
Gtt»t* ca
V/\te
03
<sca s
>N\te
\ e ss
V\n9
,\css
S etv
S®t v '
\ce
,ce s
At*
eta
tv
SeW
\ce
s*
p\C
VUt
9*
Set v
ce
V/\te
V/\t<
\ess
Ae sS
hAantt
fie
se
ta
at
evot
ch*
Bf° a
Ibe
dcas
V\n9
S'®' 1
on s
ft
sf
fa
d'to
\a
/?
— * (K* X^ %V
wireless £ %%*
*ArioNAL
