

proof proof
TONIC
CAN MAKE YOU WELL
AND KEEP YOU WELL
w
e
Dear Sirs,
After war service I was crippled with RHEUMATISM, and, in fact, I
despaired ever of evert being healthy. My nerves were affected and I began
to lose weighty My wife often had to spend evenings helping me to get to
bed, and I didn t know what it was to enjoy a good night’s rest or sleep, so bad
was the pain,
A friend of mine was good enough to advise me to try Hutuwai.
Everything else failed me, but eventually, against my will, I began to drink
Hutuwai Tonic, fhe result was amazing; I began to sleep better, my nerves
improved. The pain vanished. I began to enjoy life again. Now, after only
a few bottles of Hutuwai I am completely restored to the best of health.
There are no signs of any of my former aches and pains. I sleep well, my
weight has improved,
All the benefit has come from your Hutuwai, and I cannot find words
to express my very sincere gratitude.
Yours faithfully,
ROBERT HUMPHREYS.
n
:
■ ■
S-X.:-,->-
MY NERVES
BEGAN
TO GET
QUIET AFTER
THE FIRST
FEW DOSES"
PRONOUNCE
HOO-TOO-WY
LARGE BOTTLE 4/6
Also in 3/- size. (Including
Valuable DIET CHART FREE.)
Sold and recommended by CHEMISTS and
STORKS throughout Australia. If unob-
tainable locally, direct from Hutuwai
Distributing Co., 210 George St., Sydney.
Postage !/-. extra per bottle.
Scientists have discovered that Herbal Plant Juices and human blood are
closely related; and when taken by human beings Plant Juices change
easily into valuable Hormones. Hutuwai Tonic contains Herbal Plant
Juices. Since the introduction of Hutuwai thousands of reports have
been received from grateful Australians from all over the Common-
wealth, which provide remarkable, genuine proof of the health-restoring
qualities of Hutuwai Tonic for Arthritis, Rheumatism, Neuritis, Nerves,
Kidney Trouble, Blood Pressure and Skin Disorders.
$
Q>
mb
ST. PETERS, ADELAIDE, S.A.
April 21, 1939.
Dear Sirs,
For over two years I was completely run-down, was nervous and irritable,
suffered from loss of sleep and with indigestion. My health generally was very
poor. I was recommended your Hutuwai Tonic, and after taking two bottles my
health was considerably improved. With this encouragement I continued taking
Hutuwai, and after taking it for i 0 weeks my health is completely restored and I
am feeling very fit.
Yours faithfully,
M. B. WILSON.
HURSTVILLE, N.S.W., July 21, 1939.
Dear Sirs,
I want to add,my testimony to the already numerous
ones that have been received by your company.
Last year I was suffering badly from NERVES and
could not sleep. I saw Hutuwai advertised so I pur-
chased a bottle. My nerves began to get quiet after
the first few doses, and I ate and slept splendidly. I
took four bottles altogether and I haven’t suffered from
nerves since.
I can thoroughly recommend Hutuwai to anyone
suffering as I did.
Yours truly, (Mrs.) G.T.
HUTUWAI Contains the Juice
of HERBAL Plants.
Hutuwai helps the system to expel the injurious acids
and poisons and to eradicate aches and pains. Hutuwai
can give you steady nerves and an excellent appetite,
and you will sleep well. Headaches soon disappear.
Color is restored to the cheeks. Your friends will tell
you how Well you look, and you will take a renewed
interest in life. Hutuwai is prepared under the super-
vision of a skilled chemist and under ideal hygienic
conditions. Hutuwai is different ... it is genuine.
The Tonic Which Contains Herbal Plant Juices
The Bulletin
A Life Assurance Supplement
Vol. 60.—N0. 3104.
Wednesday, August 9, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY#
tram
sJjiitl
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL -
Please send, without, obligation, pour New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
lly Address *•*
Sj.B, 239
The Red Page
KENNETH SLESSOR'S POETRY.
It is a handicap to the fame of a magician that
his finest effects seem merely natural; the superb
strokes of the poet lack the applause-awakening
flourish of the conjuror pulling the rabbit out of the
hat; when they are said, they seem the only fit words.
The best of Kenneth Slessor’s poems suffer from this
desirable disease; no one can unmask the magic
which joins simple words, simple images and quiet
rhythms into such profoundly moving utterance:
The old orchard, full of smoking air,
Full of sour marsh and broken boughs, is there,
But kept no more by vanished Mulligans,
Or Hartigans, long drowned in earth themselves,
Who gave this bitter fruit their care....
“The quality of pure magic” has been claimed by
Randolph Hughes for two lines by C. J. Brennan:
Trophies and glories whence a trouble streams
Of lamentable valor in old dreams....
“The greater glory of poetry,” Mr. Hughes says, “all
the romance of the world, all its vast processional
vision, seems contained in this solitary couplet.” Now,
if these lines are magic, they are imitation magic;
their “monumental bigness” is the monumental big-
ness of a pyramid built of ready-cut asbestos sheets ;
it is impressive, but hollow and unsatisfactory. Or his
words gain their magic from having been bricks in
other people’s buildings ; Brennan’s language is not
the living language of poetry, where words work on
each other in perpetual movement, as they do in
Slessor’s work, sometimes to the point of virtuosity.
And cells that under tents of horn had slept
Rose dancing at the black and faceless bale
Of gallows-flesh
means that his finger-ends tingled in horror; and
yawning Fares
With bumping flap-dark spatulas of cards....
means, as Hugh McCrae has pointed out, that, as the
fares played cards in the stagecoach, the wheel-spokes,
passing the light of the outer lamps, threw rapid
shadows on the cards, blotting them out one second,
and bringing them back the next. If those two are
conjuring, this is magic:
And who are we to argue with our lutes?
where the most complex of musical instruments, a
product of years and years of traditional modifications,
becomes a symbol of a civilisation which defeats re-
organisers with its slowly built-up complexities. When
Slessor’s work is conjuring, it still provides a brilliant
picture, full of life and design; when it is magical, it
has the “receding avenues of suggestion” which Mr.
Hughes claims for C. J. Brennan; and Slessor’s
avenues recede farther because he provides more lively
images to travel along them.
For anything like Slessor’s earlier work, for such
a poem as “Thief of the Moon,” there is no parallel in
English ; you have to go to France, to Verlaine, and
to the Verlaine of “Clair de Lune.”
Cold, cold are the birds that, bubbling out of night
Cried once to my ears their unremembered tune
has the same'singing quality as the untranslatable
Qui fait river les oiseaux dans les arbres,
and in such lines as
Break, break thy strings, thou lutenists of earth,
and
No orange’s gold is globed like moonrise there,
there is the same variation and laxity of the traditional
beat to bring off marvels of powerful expression.
And the development of his poetry is not in the
English tradition. “Rather it is as though forms had
been melted down to their component colors, and the
pool of iridescent loveliness thus created fixed by a
touch of the master’s magic—lightly frozen over by an
enchanting frost. Only ice is cold. At any rate, what
happens to the spectator is that first he perceives a
tangle of hot and apparently inharmonious tones;
gradually he becomes aware of a subtle astonishing
and unlooked-for harmony ; finally from this harmony
emerge completely realised and exquisitely related
forms.”
That is Clive Bell writing about Renoir; it is also
the best introduction to such poetry as this:
Nothing grows on the stone trees
But lanterns, frosty gourds of color,
Melting their bloody drops in water
Over the dark seas.
These peaks of stucco, smoking light,
These Venice-roads, the pools and channels,
Tunnel the night with a thousand planets,
Daubing their glaze of white,
Where belfries glitter, spire on spire,
Shining on men with paper faces,
And boats, in the glass billow fading,
Beetles of cloudy fire.
Faintly the dripping, crystal strings
Unlock their Spanish airs, their festival,
Which, far away, resolves to emptiness,
Echoes of bitter things,
Far away music, cold and small,
Which, like a child’s delight remembered,
Falls to mocked effigy forever,
Melancholy to recall.
Slessor is like his own Sam Pepys:
One fiery paintbox of the body’s w0r1d....
There is hardly a poem in his books that does not sug-
gest color, and color “lightly frozen over by an en-
chanting frost.” His frosts arc mostly window-panes ;
few poets have shown such delight in looking out of
windows. The first line of his London book, Earth
Visitors (1926):
At five I wake, rise, rub on the smoking pane,
A port to see —
In Cuckooz Contrey (Sydney, 1932) Captain Dobbin
(retired):
Now sails the street in a brick villa, Laburnum Villa,
In whose blank windows the harbor hangs
Like a fog against the glass—
and in “The Atlas” suite, a Dutch seacoast:
No wind of life may strike within
This little country’s crystal bin,
Nor calendar compute the days
Tubed in their capsule of soft glaze.
Naked and rinsed the bubble-clear
Canals of Amsterdam appear....
the picture-maker’s instinct to frame, to tube life into
a capsule of soft glaze, could hardly be better demon-
strated. There results also a curious remoteness from
this habit of mind, as though the reader were seeing
everything from isolation behind glass.
Picture-making with words has proved often
enough a barren exercise for poets without feeling for
music; but it. would be hard to say of Slessor’s
work whether its success depends more on its pictures
or its music. His command of rhythm and cadence
is amazingly various; whether it is presto, as in the
“Petroushka” section of the suite “To Music”:
In and out the countryfolk, the carriages and carnival,
Pastrycooks in all directions push to barter their confections.
Trays of little gilded cakes, caramels in painted flakes,
Marzipan of various makes and macaroons of all com-
plexions.
Riding on a tide of country faces....
or vivace, as in “Country Towns”:
Country towns, with your willows and squares,
And farmers bouncing on barrel mares
To public-houses of yellow wood
With “1860” over their doors,
And that mysterious race of Hogans
Which always keeps General Stores
or tempo di can-can, as in “Mermaids” from “The
Atlas” suite, where words dance:
Those well-known and respected Harpies
Dance no more on the shore to and fro
Nor do they tumble in the sponges of the moon
For the benefit of tourists in the First Saloon,
Nor fork their foaming lily-fins below the side
On the ranges of the ale-clear tide
the technique is always adequate, and there is only
one possible reading; or, with the exquisite art of a
Borgioli, he can poise his song, phrase by phrase, in
air:
Darkness comes down. The Harbor shakes its mane,
Glazed like a leaf of amber; lights appear
Like thieves too early, dropping their swag by night,
Red, gold and green, down trapdoors glassy-clear,
And lanterns over Pinchgut float with light
Where they so long have lain.
All this will last, but I who gaze must go
On water stranger and less clear, and melt
With flesh away; and stars that I have felt,
And loved, shall shine for eyes I do not know.
One thinks of the remorseless grace of an andante by
Mozart, curve after curve, phrase on impeccable
phrase:
In the sharp sky, the frosty deepnesses,
There are still birds to barb the silences,
There are still fields to meet the morning on,
But those who made them beautiful have gone.
The windows through which Slessor sees his pic-
tures are not of plate-glass ; they join with music to
transmute landscape and experience into a very per-
sonal fantasy. The 1926 book was a deliberate
fantasy of pirates, gods, goddesses, Watteau Cytheras
and ballets of Norman Lindsay water-colors; the
1932 book is an artist’s vision of experience; in it he
becomes his own most severe critic ; he looks back
on the Pegasus which he and Jack Lindsay rode in
their “Vision” press days:
Who could have called that soft, adhesive nag
We bounced our lives on, a wild horse?
and this is not good criticism. In those days he pro-
duced the “Thief of the Moon” and “Mangroves”
sonnets, the suite “To Music,” “Thieves’ Kitchen”:
Good roaring pistol-boys, brave lads of gold,
Good roistering easy maids, blown cock-a-hoop
On floods of tavern-steam, I greet you! Drunk
With wild Canary, drowned in wines of old,
I’ll swear your round, red faces dive and swim
Like clouds of fire-fish in a waxen tide
which he winces nowadays to hear mentioned, “Secret
Pastures” and “The Man of Sentiment,” two dialogues
in blank verse about Lawrence Sterne which have a
fine speaking quality, and are as full of interest as of
insight. But for the 1932 Slessor, all these are vanities ;
he questions, even, whether the compilation of poetry
is a suitable occupation for a gentleman (and with
Slessor we are always dealing with an incipient
eighteenth-century man-of-the-world):
Have you not played Hamlet’s father in the wings
Long enough, listening to poets groan,
Seeking a false catharsis
In flesh not yours ?
he asks himself, and contrasts:
Your uncle, the Great Harry, left after him
The memory of a cravat, a taste in cheese,
And a way of saying “I am honored.”
Such things, when men and beasts have gone,
Smell sweetly to the seraphim.
Believe me, fool, there are worse gifts than these.
and it is with this feeling of the unworthiness of his
earlier enthusiasms that he writes:
This is really a Complete Life and Works,
The memorial of a great man
Who was born with Excalibur in his fist
And finished by asking questions.
Woken by a star falling on his tiles,
He rushed out, defying devils —•
“Come forth, yc Monster!” Only neighbors peeped
Fish-eyed at this ferocity
At last, regrettable lo slate, he stopped.
Why honor a coward with pursuit?
So he began to use Excalibur in the kitchen,
Or on occasion as a hay-rake....
However, a disciple of Uncle Harry may still admire
material beauty, and his evocations of the most force-
ful form of material beauty are certainly lovely ; e.g.,
a Rubens Venus:
Warm flesh of gods, by light embayed,
And drifting daemon-bones within
That swpep like music up and down
To pouts and cups of ivory skin,
Firm-valleyed croup, and swagging arm
In whose embankments bracelets drown....
But in spite of these, in spite of the games Captain
Dobbin plays in “a ledger sticky with ink”:
Entries of time and weather, state of the moon,
Nature of cargo and captain’s name,
For some mysterious and awful purpose
Never divulged,
in spite of the historical studies which produced the
“Five Visions of Captain Cook”:
For Cook he worshipped, that captain with the sad
And fine white face, who never lost a man
Or flinched a peril
he finds life fairly flat and dull. Firstly, because it
is Australian life ; next, because it is contemporary
life; and last, because it is human life. In “The Old
Play” suite, the audience is selected gods from dead
religions. They are bored, and Slessor sympathises
with them, although he hardly knows what to do
about it:
And who are we to argue with our lutes,
Flow should we change the play?
Are we Lucifers with hell in our boots?
There are no Lucifers to-day.
By no means. It is never like .this,
Never like this. One does not fall.
How should we find, like Lucifer, an abyss ?
He is content to leave it at that, until “Beli, yawning
in the pit,” remarks: —
“The song was stale five acts ago;
Besides, it isn’t Life, you know.”
Then Slessor forgets all about Uncle Harry, and
answers like one of these mad poets:
But life we know, but life we know,
Is full of visions and vertigo,
Full of God’s blowpipes belching rubies forth,
And God’s ambiguous grapeshot maiming saints,
Full of emancipations and restraints —
Thou poor, bewildered earth!
The just protest of an outraged magician.
Slessor’s work is full of memorable, summarising
lines. He can fix a special meaning to a commonplace
phrase ; in an address to the moon:
Moonlight’s a viand sucked by the world’s lovers,
Captains and peasants, all that are young and have luck,.
They take the moon. Nobody asked them to.
Let the musicians lout to thee for favors;
Personally, I have other things to do.
Or he can sketch an unforgettable swan ; when he
returns to the gardens in autumn, “Where spring had
used me better”:
Where we had kissed so awkwardly,
Noted by swans with damp, accusing eyes....
Slessor’s accomplishment is all the more im-
pressive for his having perfected a personal style in
poetry.
Ronald McCuaig.
[Slessor’s Five Bells was not out when this article was
written; it will be criticised later.]
A Package of One-acters.
A volume of one-acters usually produces the re-
flection that the form is inherently trivial. There is
far less scope in a one-acter than in a short story. It
is a small tight frame forced down on life. It holds
so little; it insists on episode, and episode without
background; its forerunners and its consequences are
invariably thin. Sometimes there is a miracle, a
“Riders to the Sea” or a “Twelve Pound Look,” but
not often.
There wasn’t apparently last year when J. W. Mar-
riott compiled his annual selection of The Best One-act
Plays of 1938 for Harrap. It. isn’t fair to expect the
one-acter to rise above itself as a matter of course. The
thing to look for in it is texture, the feeling of ease, life,
fluency in the dialogue, the natural fold in the plot.
That is something, like a good complexion, that is
there or isn’t there. The play that has it is a success,
the one that hasn’t is thin and artificial no matter how
cleverly devised.
One play in this book has it, the last in the list,
“Nicodemus,” by Joe Corrie. It is an unpretentious
village comedy. It is Nicodemus Greenwell’s wedding
day, and what with the cow being sick and Nicodemus
having to put on new clothes he decides he is not in
the mood to get married. He baulks. His mother per-
suades, his father urges, the vicar exhorts, the bride’s
aunt upbraids, but Nicodemus sinks deeper into his
obstinacy as into a bog.
He has reached the limit of mulishness when his
grandfather appears, the wily old romantic, and begins
to work on his imagination. The bovine Nicodemus
takes fire, all hands help him to dress. He is just ready
when news comes that the bride has run off with the
best man.
There is an Irish play that is fairly persuasive, but
for the rest they are rather a worn collection —a cock-
tail comedy of the future called “After the Tempest,”
by Geoffrey Trease ; a topical hit, “The Funk Hole,”
by Harold Brighouse; three historical pieces dealing
with Jack Sheppard, Cleopatra and a Biblical theme ;
a Mexican comedy, “Sunday Costs Five Pesos,” in
which women fight over a man —not that Mexico
makes that story any fresher ; some very romantic
morsels, and the usual trick scene, Vera Arlett’s
“Nocturne,” in which a down-and-out dying on a
park bench relives his life.
It is remarkable how many English plays feature
persons of title and how many one-acters seek to add
{"Red Page” continued on page 8.)


ANTHONY HORDERNS
BETTER &CLE
WE WILL GIVI
SSS2S
TICKING
PURE FELTED
COTTON
CURLED HAIR
~ STOUT CANVAS
SPIRAL SPRINGS
SPRINGS SEPARATELY
CASED
lull
IQ
IQ
m
:
& u
*
♦
WHAT WE DO AND WHAT YOU DO:
I.—YOU select your fresh bedding from our unrivalled
assortment, the prices being as always at Anthony Horderns'
the lowest possible, quality considered. BUT—note this!
Off our "Famous Low Prices" you receive a generous rebate
on your old bedding.
WE WILL ALLOW YOU £1 FOR YOUR OLD MATTRESS IF
YOU PURCHASE A NEW FULL SIZE ONE. If you decide on
a mattress smaller than 4ft. 6in. wide, WE WILL ALLOW
YOU 10/- off the price of a new one. This, of course, is off
our standard prices as quoted in our regular price list. We
do not include Flock or Fibre bedding in this offer, as we do
not recommend them as "Better Bedding".
WE WILL deliver your new Bedding without charge (if you
live in the Metropolitan Area), and special vans will pick up
your old Mattresses and remove them. COUNTRY
CUSTOMERS write for further particulars.
In exchange for your old Feather or Down Quilts, we will
allow you £1 off our marked prices on any Quilt from £5
upwards, and on Quilts from £3 to £5 we will allow you 10/-.
Take advantage of this splendid offer. It will remain open
during our Better Bedding Campaign only, and all old Quilts
sent in will be burnt.
HYGIENE CAMPAIGN:
In instituting this Campaign, Anthony Horderns' are mindful
of the immensely important bearing that Bedding has on
health—they know how easily bedding might become un-
hygienic. It is this fact that prompted the Government
practically to forbid the re-making of bedding (Kapok)
under the Public Health (Amendment) Act, 1921. In many
cases the old Mattresses which you have are not in any
sense an asset—they may be actually a liability and a
danger. You cannot have them re-made; you cannot sell
them; you would probably have to pay for them to be
removed. Take advantage of Anthony Horderns' Hygiene
Campaign to secure "Better and Cleaner" Bedding.
KAPOK EXHIBITION:
Kapok is so perfect as it comes from the hands of Nature that,
beyond being exposed to air and sun, and being freed of
the seeds it contains in the ripe pod, it is subjected to no
manufacturing process whatever. And to illustrate this, we
have arranged with the kind permission and with the co-
operation of the Consul for the Netherland Indies a very fine
Exhibition of Kapok in each of its various stages. You will
find this remarkably interesting Exhibition on the Third Floor,
adjacent to the Furnishing Drapery Department.
"HORDERNIAN" MATTRESS Illustrated at Top
This mattress represents the last word in modern mattress construction. Each
spring is encased in a separate pocket. Layers of fleecy felted cotton and
hair are placed on each side of the springs, thereby ensuring perfect comfort
and complete relaxation. The covering is of Belgian Ticking in various
colours and stripes. 2ft.6in. 3ft. 3ft.6in. 4ft. 4ft.6in.
Mattresses £5/19/6 £6/17/6 £7/17/6 £B/15/- £9/5/-
® Bedding—Third Floor. Delivered free only within our delivery area ,
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LTD., SYDNEY.
'Phone M 2401
Box 2712 C, G.P.O.


The FORGOTTEN MAN
BY
Jed Mayman.
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
FOR twenty-odd years Lucius Jones
was the Forgotten Man ; rather dif-
ficult to conceive when it is realised
that this is the same L.s.d. Jones about
whom the press has been completely mis-
informing its public over the last few
months, and whose slightest activity nowa-
days competes in headline value with the
latest war scares. An odd myth and legend
has suddenly grown up about Jones, mak-
ing him unreal even to the few old-timers
on Stone’s Find who thought they knew him
so well. To the general public, of course,
he is known as the new power in the bank-
ing and mining circles of the State, a veri-
table Napoleon in his sphere, whose un-
canny acumen and shrewd judgment have
given him a chair between old Lewis, the
banker, and Bull Barnard, the mining mag-
nate.
Old Lewis insists that he had his eye
on Jones years ago when he first joined the
Colonial Bank, but the fact remains that
for twenty years he was, most of all to
Lewis, the Forgotten Man.
COME time before the war there was a
big gold rush up north. Just about then
the Colonial Bank was seeking a footing in
the State, and, carrying out a big expansion
policy dictated by Lewis, it followed the
gold-seekers. Wherever a couple of men
pegged a lease the Colonial Bank pitched a
tent, hung out its sign, and later built prem-
ises. In a couple of years there was hardly
a mining camp in the north that did not
boast a branch of the bank.
To the branch at Stone’s Find was sent Lucius
Jones, a small, timid young fellow, with the interests
of the bank at heart and a burning loyalty to his
employers. He was alone at the branch, for the
Colonial was rather short of clerks to staff its
numerous offices. It was Lewis who was responsible
for the transfer. Jones, to him, was merely a name on
the staff records, and immediately after signing the
letter confirming the appointment he completely for-
got that such a person ever existed.
The northern goldfields boomed for a few years,
then, the way booms do, subsided. It was gradually
realised that the hopes of discovering another Rand,
Klondyke or even another Golden Mile were rather
remote. Town Councils stopped laying asphalt foot-
paths, concrete cycle tracks and lofty Municipal
Chambers, contractors refrained from putting up more
brick hotels, and the Colonial Bank from expending
money on lavish premises for its local branches.
In fact, about this time Lewis was noticed to be
losing weight. He began arriving early at the bank’s
head office and leaving late. The Colonial Bank had
rather overdone its policy of expansion in the mining
areas. It was apparent that its many branches in the
fast-decaying mining townships were a heavy liability.
After considerable discussion it was decided that its
chief duty to the nation was to give to the agricultural
areas its unexcelled banking facilities and organisation.
It retreated from the mining areas and advanced into
the wheatbelt.
One by one, in the many tiny mining camps scat-
tered over the northern goldfields, the branches of the
Colonial Bank were silently closed and their staffs
withdrawn. But at Stone’s Find Lucius Jones managed
his branch with quiet efficiency. He had taken up
his duties with the resolve to work hard, to obey
orders without question, write neatly, and never to
speak out of place. His philosophical creed was
“Learn to labor and to wait.” He was a solemn,
serious young man, and he realised that if he planned
his conduct along these lines reward must ultimately
come to him.
In due course Jones received advice from the
general manager that the Stone’s Find branch was to
be closed in the near future and, until further instruc-
tions came, to carry on. He sent in his final monthly
returns and waited.
It would be a simple job to close the branch, for
by this time he had no customers. As the alluvial and
the few rich leads worked out the population closed
its accounts, drifted away and left the scarred red
earth to a score or so of goats. Now and then a couple
of old prospectors came in to walk up the silent
streets and sit about the empty pubs and yarn about
the good old days, but generally Lucius Jones and
Dinny Ryan, who Kept the small store, nad tne town-
ship to themselves.
The months passed by, and then a year, and still
Jones had not received instructions to close his
branch.
Each morning at ten o’clock he opened the doors
of the bank and, so strong was his sense of duty,
strolled round to Dinny’s store to inquire for mail. At
Christmas and Easter time he hung holiday notice
cards in the windows and shut up the office.
Occasionally passing travellers would leave papers
with Dinny, and Jones would note with quiet pride
the strides the Colonial Bank was making. Lewis was
once again putting on weight. The bank was now
firmly established in the State, and his name was
revered in financial circles. The northern goldfields
were merely a bad memory.
Considering the worry and strain through which
Lewis passed during those grim days he can hardly
be blamed for overlooking the continued existence of
the branch at Stone’s Find, and its manager, Lucius
Jones. Jones, brought up in stern banking traditions,
always unswervingly loyal to the institution he served,
never questioned the decision of his superior in keep-
ing him there. Now and again he had fleeting moments
of doubt, and debated whether or not he should write
to Lewis for further instructions, but such unworthy
thoughts were always followed by periods of bitter
self-criticism for even contemplating anything so in-
discreet as querying the orders of his general manager
to carry on.
After the fifth year Jones thought of applying
for leave, but decided against it. He had no relations
he desired to see, no friends in the city to visit, he was
not suffering from overwork, he was in good health ;
in fact, he had no real reason for ever wanting to leave
Stone’s Find.
Frequently, after closing the bank at three o’clock,
he would borrow Dinny’s bicycle and potter about the
old workings and pass the time of the day with the
few grey-haired prospectors who remained in the scrub
about the Find. From them he picked up odd infor-
mation about the fields, the lines along which the
wide low-grade lodes ran, and what shows had a
“chance.” He carried a notebook in which he jotted
down such gleanings, and later on, when he took a
more practical interest in his hobby, he included
sketches of the workings, with much data such as
assay values and the estimated size of their lodes and
their history.
About the tenth year, after some weeks sitting in
the office trying to discover a mathematical formula to
prove two and two make five, he thought a little out-
of-doors work would do him good, so he obtained a
prospecting pick from Dinny and systemati-
cally sampled the district for miles around
Stone's Find. He found his hobby all-
absorbing, and in time he was able to con-
verse familiarly about “footwalls” and
“hanging-walls” and “shear planes and
“white blows” and “the dolorite” and ‘ con-
glomerate” and “the oxides ’ and the sul-
phides.”
It was in the twenty-third year of Lucius
Jones’s stay in Stone’s Find that he realised
the district was undergoing marked changes.
At odd times rumors had seeped through
that the price of gold was rising rapidly, but
.Jones had not yet worked out what that
meant to Stone’s Find.
First he noticed strangers in the town,
one or two for a start, who liked to yarn
to him about the derelict shows. Then
someone reopened the pub. The thin trickle
of newcomers widened to a full stream. Soon
Jones felt himself a stranger in Stone’s Find.
To them, of course, he was just an eccen-
tric old bloke who wore peg-topped trousers
and collars which went out of fashion twenty
years ago and told people he was the bank
manager, when, as everyone knew, the
Colonial Bank was not represented on the
northern goldfields.
It was about this time that once again
Lewis, now getting on in years, began losing
weight and staying late at head office. What
with the low price of wheat and a dismal
outlook for wool the agricultural branches
were becoming a liability to the bank. If
only Bull Barnard, the mining magnate, who
was returning from abroad with capital from
South Africa and London and America behind his
Empire Mining Corporation and its innumerable
subsidiary companies, chose the Colonial for its
bankers
SO Lewis was one of the first to greet Barnard as
he stepped off the boat. During the next few days
the public learned that Barnard was undertaking a
tour of the northern goldfields, mainly to investigate
the huge low-grade propositions around Stone’s Find.
Lewis, the State’s most prominent banker, would
accompany him.
Things were not going too well with Lewis at
this stage. Barnard had discovered the Colonial Bank
had no branches in the north. “How the hell,” asked
Barnard irritably, “did Lewis expect the Empire Cor-
poration to bank with him if they had no branches
in the places they were most wanted?”
One morning about ten o’clock, as Jones opened
the door of the bank before the amused crowd who
now always gathered to watch him, a long, luxurious
car swept down the busy main street of Stone’s Find
and pulled up at the hotel.
Glancing idly across the street Lewis noticed the
sign “Colonial Bank, Stone’s Find Branch,” above a
small brick building. His brows met in a puzzled
frown as from the doorway emerged someone dressed
in the fashions of a remote and almost forgotten
period, who hurried across the road to greet him.
“How do you do, Mr. Lewis?” said Lucius Jones.
“This is indeed a pleasure. It is good of you to make
a personal visit. Lucius Jones is the name. You can
go over the branch whenever you are ready, sir. As
requested in your letter I have carried on pending
further instructions as to the closing of the branch.
Lewis reeled. Some one was drunk. All these
branches had been closed for twenty years. But
“God,” faltered old Lewis, “I forgot to close this
branch.”
Throughout his long career Lewis had never re-
ceived such a shock as this, but he was not general
manager of a bank for nothing. By the time Barnard
had lumbered out of the car Lewis s features had
regained their usual immobility.
“Oh, by the way,” he said casually, “I want you
to meet our manager here, Mr. Jones.”
“Thought you didn’t have a branch here?” said
Barnard.
“Oh,” smiled Lewis easily, “just my little joke.
We’ve had a branch here over twenty years, haven’t
we, Jones? My dear Barnard, I always knew some
(i Continued on next page.)


day our faith in Stone’s Find would be justified. A
branch here is just what your corporation needs. Er,
let’s have a drink.”
Lucius Jones followed humbly in their wake,
rather flattered at having been included in the invita-
tion. He listened respectfully to the conversation, but
was disturbed at the importance with which the Black
Swan group of leases was held by them both. It
appeared that Barnard intended taking over the Black
Swan for the Empire Mining Corporation.
“With all due respect, sir,” he said carefully, “the
Black Swan has been played out for years. I think
you would find the leases to the north of the Swan a
more profitable investment for your company.” Here
he produced his large worn notebook and consulted
its contents.
“Yes,” he went bn, “I think my records are fairly
complete. Perhaps it will be in the interests of the
bank, Mr. Lewis, if I hand my notes on the possibili-
ties of the Stone’s Find district over to you. During
my stay here I’ve had a unique opportunity of inves-
tigating this field.”
That was how the Colonial Bank came to get the
business of the Empire Mining Corporation.
Lucius Jones, of course, no longer manages the
branch at Stone’s Find. Though he is unaware of it,
he exercises a sort of moral blackmail, a sort of
tyranny of the weak, over both Lewis and Barnard.
They have put him on all their boards. In fact, they
seldom let him out of their sight. At the present time
they both agree it is not in their common interest to
have his true history made public. They have even
gone to considerable lengths to aid the press build up
a new and mysterious personality for Jones, now
popularly known as L.s.d. Jones.
Lewis feels that the story of a forgotten branch
would have an adverse effect upon the respect in which
the Colonial Bank is held among the mass of the
people. And Barnard feels that his mining reputation
would be damaged if it were known that the success
of the Empire Mining Corporation’s venture at Stone’s
Find was really due to an outback bank clerk.
Lucius Jones takes his change of fortune modestly.
He feels that the humble precepts which he followed
when he first went to Stone’s Find have at last
rewarded him.
INSOMNIA
BY LES ROBINSON.
WHENEVER —owing entirely, of course, to cir-
cumstances over which, unfortunately, I never
have any control —I am obliged to be up very
early in the morning, I can’t sleep all night.
I have a clock, of course, on a table at the bed-
side, and a watch as well (though sometimes 1 forget
to wind them), a glass of water, a packet of aspirin
tablets, a visage lotion that is guaranteed anathema
to mosquitoes, a pair of black cloth blinkers —as a
protection, on nights that are cloudless, against the
moon when full —and a mousetrap. The preliminary
preparations or arrangements, in fact, that should obvi-
ate the need for getting out of bed before morning
and likely to ensure—or, at any rate, to aid in produc-
es sound slumber seem to me to be flawless. They
succeed, nevertheless, I often notice, in being more of
a hindrance than anything else.
Nothing, for instance, is more helpful in keeping
me wide awake than a clock. If, like mine, it is a
cheap one, I feel compelled to keep my eye on it in
case it should stop, and if, like mine, the watch is
a two-and-elevenpenny one, I feel compelled to keep
an eye on that, too. So every now and then through-
out the night I strike a match and glance at one or
the other, and, if the match lasts long enough, com-
pare the two.
Sometimes I am plagued by the uneasy suspicion
that I have been asleep for a few minutes and only
dreamt that I struck a match and glanced at the
time. In a panic I then strike another, and usually
find that this is exactly what has happened, and that
I must make haste if I am to get any sound and con-
tinuous sleep while it is safe for me to do so.
The heat, perhaps, is stifling, the night thunderful
and dank, and I have left the bedroom window and
door open on purpose, which is, according to some
people (mere theorists who have never lived in a noisy
suburb), helpful in promoting slumber. No sooner,
then, do I decide to make a determined effort to enter
the land of dreams than a boisterous breeze, having
travelled towards my abode for hours very likely,
suddenly reaches or swoops upon it. Crash, bang go
window and door, and I am only just in time, by
leaping out of bed hurriedly, to prevent pictures from
being blown off the walls, clothes, newspapers and
other belongings from being strewn about the floor.
If the breeze, gale or whirlwind is, as so often
happens, short-lived, the heat again becomes stifling
and the night more thunderful and dank, and I’m
bound to find that I’ll have to get up and open the
door and window again. Whilst, wilfully imagining
that I’m almost as good as a mopoke at poking about
without a light at night, or merely because I can’t find
the matches, I blunder hither and thither, nothing ever
seems to deter my biggest toe —it is much too large—
from striking the bedpost. Nor does anything soft
intervene to prevent one of my shins at least from
being bruised by the boot and junk receptacle—home-
made furniture always seems to have more sharp edges
and inconvenient projections than even the worst sold
in second-hand shops.
Bare feet, there is no doubt whatever, have a pro-
nounced and exasperating aptitude for finding things
in the dark. If detectives could find criminals as easily
as those feet of mine can find drawing-pins, gramo-
phone needles, boot-protectors, tacks, broken studs,
jagged fragments of glass or crockery and all sorts
of other sharp or abrasive odds and ends which,
somehow or other, have managed to fall off brackets,
shelves, the mantelpiece and windowsills on to the
floor, these crime-waves we hear so much about would
soon cease to provide us with the “makings” for
nightmares.
And now to try some of those devices for inducing
sleep, I say to myself when, having made the bed
again, which, because of my ceaseless contortions,
was in a devil of a mess, I get back into it and, as I
think, am settled comfortably for the remainder of
the night. Someone told me that the best thing to do
is to compel the eyeballs, by means of will-power, to
keep on looking downwards, whether they seem to
prefer the ceiling or not. And somebody else that
deep, tranquil and beneficent slumber would be the
reward of those who rolled their eyeballs in the one
direction, if they did so long enough, while, at the
same time, repeating a certain word or number.
I decide, perhaps, to try the first method, but no
sooner are my eyeballs groaning because of the amount
of pressure will-power is ruthlessly applying than a
horrible thought strikes me. Suppose, if forced too
far down, they turned turtle or inside out and re-
mained so stuck hard and fast!
I perspire with apprehension and immediately
chain up will-power. Then, after a while, when re-
assured, by testing them, that both eyeballs are just
as mobile as ever, I unchain will-power and try the
second method.
It is not long, however, while thus engaged, before
another horrible thought strikes me. Suppose that this
sort of thing became a habit! Suppose I rolled my
eyeballs in the office, the street or the tram, kept on
rolling them and muttering to myself whilst doing so.
What would people think? What would they say?
I immediately see myself bolting through the
scrub pursued by agile receivers from the Reception
House, some of whom are on horseback and have
lassos, while others, on footback, brandish nets like
those used by butterfly-hunters, and I hear the baying
of bloodhounds. I decide to abstain from further
rolling of eyeballs and to abstain as well from moving
my eyebrows up and down, whilst breathing deeply,
a method also advocated by its inventor and sent to
the sleepless, with other hints, in a sealed envelope,
for sixpence, but found by one of them (me) to be
utterly useless.
Having, as I fondly imagine, hours and hours
more of darkness to while or fritter away, I remove
a large moth which I suspect of trying to build a nest
in my hair, also several feathers out of the pillow
which have become entangled in my whiskers, then,
after taking more deep breaths, I lie as still as though
petrified or stunned, for, being nothing if not opti-
mistic and credulous, I am now about to adopt an air-
minded person’s suggestion which was to imagine that
I am watching and counting from an aeroplane the
clouds scudding by. He assured me, and I thought
was sober at the time, too, that he could always put
himself to sleep that way. This experiment is ruined,
however —at least it was when I last tried it —by a
grass-seed, the sharp-pointed, javelin kind, finding its
way into my pyjamas.
The strain and fatigue combined of trying by
these and perhaps other similar methods to put myself
to sleep seems almost about to succeed where the
methods themselves were failures, when, suddenly, the
alarm, set for daylight but not in the least deterred
by that, functions at the top of its gimcrick mechan-
ism, in the most outrageous and dictatorial fashion,
as though, indeed, it had bought me for three and
eleven and thought I wasn’t worth anything really,
instead of my having wasted that sum on a crazy and
infuriating time-wrecker.
Not long afterwards, the bedclothes, which have
slowly but surely, all this time, been moving sideways,
reach their objective—the edge of the bedstead—and
fall off. Remaking and re-entering the bed, after tying
the clothes on with rope, I again nearly become
drowsy, when kookaburras in one of the gum-trees
that are intent upon undermining my domicile, and,
in windy weather, battering it to pieces with their
branches, wake and at once try to rouse the whole
neighborhood.
These annoying birds, that, like so many inhuman
beings addicted to early rising, do next to nothing all
day long except wander aimlessly hither and thither
making a noise and, in other ways, nuisances of
themselves, appear to be obsessed with the idea that
the imminence of daybreak is eagerly awaited by
everybody and such a universal source of satisfaction
that, sensing it from afar, they feel in duty bound to
announce the discovery at the top of their discordant
voices. Though I can see no sign of dawn whatsoever
myself, this clamor of theirs is the signal evidently
for roosters, sparrows, starlings, pet magpies, pigeons,
doves, crows, parrots, cockatoos, milkmen and dogs,
all of whom are soon doing their utmost to amplify it.
Feeling as though I had done the work of several
days already, I hastily prepare to do that of yet
another.
JENSEN IS HERE
BY WILLIAM LYNCH.
è
(Continued on page 7.)


Skinny Hazlitt Takes to Beard and Skirts Again
£100 REWARD
By A. C. HEADLEY.
DRAWINGS BY LUSBY.
AFTER our last little affair with Bill, Madame
Thora, you might say, had gone up in smoke.
It is a wonder to me that Skinny’s beard did
not start smouldering the speed he shaved it off.
The only thing you could have used the razor for
after he’d finished was to keep a chiropodist out of
a job. Maybe Bill might have had greater love than
no man for Madame Thora, but there has to be an
exception to make the rule, and we had an idea that
Bill would not be making exceptions when he realised
that his dough was gone and he owed a matter of
twenty quid to a wrestler who could eat him.
There were rumors that Bill had been seen walk-
ing round town looking for Madame Thora and I
and wearing horn-rim glasses. It was Snowy Fallon
who cleared the matter up.
“ ’Orn-rim glasses, me eye,” he said. “The glasses
Bill’s got didn’ come from no optician. They’re the
kind that come from bumping your nose on a bunch
of fives, and they ain’t tortoiseshell—they’re black
an’ purple.”
It looked as though the matter of the twenty quid
had been settled.
“Scut,” said Skinny, “I’ve got an idea that this
is the right time for welcoming flying-boats at
Darwin.”
“I’m in favor,” said I. “The time has come for
us to devote ourselves to the entertainment of the rural
industries.”
“The future that we told the yokels,” said Skinny,
“is now the past. The tall, dark and handsome men
have come into their lives. It is time we informed
them about their second husbands and taking a jour-
ney. I was thinking of palm-reading —Professor Veero,
the Mohammedan Mystic.”
“Professor,” said I, “you’ve taken the words right
out of my tonsils.”
r VERYTHING might have been all right except for
*— one thing—Bill! There have been times when I’ve
enjoyed seeing Bill, but Central Station half an hour
before our train was due to leave was not one of them.
Besides there was the matter of Bill’s black eyes and
the packet of dough. Skinny saw him first, but it was
too late to do anything. Bill had lumbered across
and surrounded us before I had time to pick out the
nearest exit in case of fire.
“Scut,” he boomed, “I been lookin’ all over town
for you. Where you been?”
I just stood gaping at him. Skinny found his
voice first.
“Bill,” he said, with his voice a bit strained, “ ’ow
are you?”
Bill swivelled round and his eyes propped open.
“Why,” he said, “if it ain’t Thora’s brother Bert.”
“I didn’ think you’d reco’nise me,” said Skinny.
“I couldn’ ’elp it,” said Bill, “you’re so much
like Thora. If on’y you ’ad a beard you’d be the dead
ring of ’er.”
Skinny tilted his hat on the back of his head.
“Bill,” he said, “it was the only way our dear mother
could tell us apart.”
“Scut,” said Bill, turning to me, “where’s Thora?”
But I was still opening and shutting my mouth
without any words coming, and wondering when Bill
was going to hold out his hand for the money. Skinny
did the answer for me.
“Bill,” he said, “I got bad news for you. Thora’s
disappeared. Me dear sister as vanished.
That was one way of putting it and
I wondered how Bill was going to take
it.
“Disappeared,” he said in a hollow
voice.
“She’s been gone,” said Skinny,
“ever since the wrestling match. She
came outa the stadium an’ it was just
like the ground opened up and swal-
lowed her. She ain’t been seen since.”
“Yes,” said I, grabbing the oppor-
tunity, ”an’ all the money we won with
her. Everything vanished.”
“Gee,” said Bill, “an’ that was
what I wanted to see you about.”
“We been searchin’ for ’er ’igh an
low,” said Skinny. “I’m real worried
about it. She’s me sister, me own flesh
an’ blood.”
“Gee,” said Bill, “she might’ve
been kidnapped with all that money
on ’er. ’Ave you tol’ the p’lice?” He
started to look pale. “She might even be murdered.
“It would be better,” said Skinny, “if the p’lice
was not informed.” He took a furtive look around.
“ ’Ave you ever ’eard of Gentleman Gus?
“Gentleman Gus!” said Bill.
“Yes,” said Skinny. “An’ if you want to see
Thora coming back an ear at a time the best thing you
can do is inform the p’lice.”
“Sometimes,” said I, “he only cuts off a fingei.
Bill nearly swallowed his bottom lip.
“Bill,” said Skinny, “Scut an’ me are just orf to
search for me dear sister. We got information that
she was seen in a big sedan car with four strange
men.”
Bill wiped the agony of the vision off his face.
“Bert,” he said, “I’m cornin’ with youse.”
I saw Skinny turn pale, and he swallowed a couple
of times with a sound like an engine shunting.
“Bill,” he said, “we’d be glad to ’ave you with
us, but I got a better idea. ’Ow about you stayin’ in
the city an’ tryin’ to pick up information? It’d be
better. You could be our ’eadquarters. You might
find out somethin’ that would put us on the right
track.”
“Gee,” said Bill, “jist like the secret service.
Maybe youse is right.” He paused and put his hand
on his brow. “Dear, but me ’eart is ’eavy for poor
dear Thora.”
“Bill,” said Skinny, “I won’t rest ’appy till I ’ave
’er back safe an’ sound. And now Scut an’ me have
got to catch a train to search for ’er.”
“I’ll give youse me address,” said Bill, “so youse
can keep in touch with me. An’ me prayers will go
with youse.”
And so we started off on our entertainment of
the rural industries. It wasn’t till the train was pulling
out of the station that I started to breathe regularly
again, and for five minutes I just lay back on the
cushions and waited for my heart to stop beating like
a Salvation Army drum.
BUT apparently the last visit of Professor Veero
had not lived up to expectations. The tall, dark,
handsome stranger had brought no light and laughter
into the hearts of the yokels. In fact, he hadn’t even
appeared in most cases, and the only customers we
were getting were women who wanted their money
back from Professor Veero’s last visit.
We were getting pretty fed up with it at the end
of the second week, and Skinny was talking about
going back to the city to help Bill with his search
for information. But the kind of information that
Skinny wanted was the kind that deals with horses.
“Listen,” I suggested, “what’s wrong with growing
a beard and doing a month or so of Thora? There s
no need to worry about Bill. At any rate, I could
send him a letter telling him that we were following
a strong clue, and not at any cost to leave the city.
Madame Thora is always popular with the yokels,
and we’ve got to do something to tear the coin oft
them.”
“Scut,” said Skinny, “you can pack me razor.’
The only trouble was that we had to wait for the
beard to grow. I filled in some of the time writing
letters to Bill and reading the despairing notes he
sent back. Bill, it seemed, could not pick up any in-
formation, and wanted to come up and help us with
our search.
“You better tell him,” said Skinny, “that our
clues ran into a dead end and that very soon well
be back in the city. That oughter keep ’im there.
So I sat down and wrote to Bill telling him that
the bearded lady who had been seen in the car with
four strange men had turned out to be an Irish
terrier.
It was the answer to that letter that knocked me
for a row of bookmakers’ stands. I gave a strangled
yelp when I read it. Skinny stopped combing his
beard and looked at me.
“What is it?” he said.
“Nothing,” said I, “except that in a couple of
days you will be worth a hundred quid, dead or alive.
It’s Bill. He’s offering a hundred quid for informa-
tion that will lead to your whereabouts..
Skinny gave a whistle. “Scut,’ he said, some-
thing seems to tell me that there seems to be a profit
in this for a deserving charity.”
“Which is us,” said I.
“All we gotter do,” said Skinny, “is wait for the
beard to grow a bit longer, an’ then you can take
me back to Bill an’ collect the reward. Maybe 1
could disappear again after that an you an me
brother Bert could search for me again. It’s the
easiest ’undred quid I ever eard of. How s e gonnei
offer the reward anyway?”
“His letter,” said I, “says that he’s going to
advertise it in the morning papers. It was written
yesterday, so that means that it ought to be in to-
day’s paper.”
It was there sure enough.
Anybody knowing the whereabouts of Madame
Thora, the bearded lady, is asked to get in touch
with, etc.
And then in big letters: £lOO Reward.
Skinny grinned. “Scut,” he said, we can give
the beard another week and then you can turn me in.
We can make up a story about me bein kidnapped
an’ robbed of all me money, which belonged to Bill,
an’ ’ow you rescued me at the risk of your life.
“Skinny,” said I, “has it occurred to you that for
me to save Madame Thora from a fate worse than
death would be reward enough? It’d be better if
we had someone else to rescue you. Bill might be
inclined to be suspicious if it was me. What we want
is a stranger to Bill.”
“Maybe,” said Skinny, “you’re right. Anyway,
we can talk it over while me beard is growin’.”
BY the end of the week we had it all fixed up.
We’d fixed on Bertie Tomlin to do the dirty work,
and I came back to the city to talk it over with him.
I’d also joined up with Bill.
“Scut,” he said, “I am in despair, and I think that
we oughter go to the p’lice about it. It smy opinion
that Thora’s been done away with.”
“Bill,” I said, “I wouldn’t give up yet. I’ve got
a feeling that she’ll be brought back to us very soon.
I dreamt about it last night, and I’ve got an idea
that very soon we will hear good news.
“I do ’ope so,” said Bill.
“I wouldn’t go out too much,” said I, “if I was
you. I’ve got an idea that someone will come in
answer to your advertisement.”
“I won’t shift a foot,” said Bill.
Later on I gave Bertie Tomlin a ring, and I was
with Bill when he turned up.
“I came,” said Bertie, “in answer to your adver-
tisement. I can give you some information about
this ’ere Madame Thora, the bearded lady.”
Bill gave a yelp.
. “Yeah,” said Bertie, winking at me behind Bill’s
back, “I know where she is if it’s the same one you
mean. Wot’s she look like, this Madame Thora?”
“She’s got a beard,” said Bill.
“Then it’s the same one,” said Bertie. “And
there was talk of a ’underd quid if she was to be
brung back safe an’ sound.”
“All I ask,” said Bill, “is that she be brought
back safe.”
“All I ask,” said Bertie, “is a ’underd quid.”
“You’ll have it,” said I, “when you bring back
Madame Thora.”
Bertie grinned. “You better ’ave the dough ready
to-morrer night. An’ don’t breathe a word to no
one.” . . ,
“There you are, Bill,” I said when Bertie had
departed, “I told you everything would come out all
right. To-morrow night Madame Thora will be back
with her loved ones.”
“Do you think we oughter foller ’im,” said Bill,
“an’ track ’im to ’is lair?” He started to reach for
his hat.


Judgin’ by the excited chatter it was plain that 1 had
got Buena all worked up. Presently Sport dashed
round to tell me that the hall was full up an’ what
would he do with the overflow. 1 tol’ him to take their
coin, an’ stan’ them in the aisles. After a while he
hands me forty-two quid, an’ started to say somethin’
about what happened next, but I cut him off short as
I wanted to have a close-up at the result of my graft.
I took a quiz at the crowd through a crack in
the curtain, an’ it’s just like Sport intimates. All the
seats are taken, an’ there’s very little standin’ room
left in the aisles. All the female population of Buena
must have been there. And there was the thing that
might almost be called a phenomenon. The audience
is all women. Women an’ kids. Not a trouser in the
lot. I’ve come across some queer happenin’s, but I
think that this about tops the lot. It is queer, but
time’s runnin’ short for the entertainment, so I post-
poned the solution of the mystery to some other time
and place.
I had Sport fetch the town clerk to pay him
the balance of the hire of the hallj just to keep the
records clean, then I gave a kid five bob to ring up
the curtain at the end of half an hour. Behind it I’d
arranged a screen with the words “Jensen is Gone”
painted on it in green letters.
Sport an’ me got goin’.
“Funny. They was all skirts,” I said after a
while, but the news didn’t seem to impress Sport.
“Sure they was,” he says. “Sure.”
“Don’t it make you think?” I asked him, an’ he
said no, he wasn’t surprised at that.
We had gone about an
hour, an’ was doin’ a nice level
fifty when Sport sees a P.D.
in the drivin’ mirror.
“It’s a P.D.,” he says.
“We’d better step on it.”
But I told him to stop. The
way I looked at it, we falsely
pretended nothin’. We’d held out
no coercion or promises of
reward to the town of Buena.
We said we was cornin’ and we
came. We said we was here,
an’ there we was, right on time.
Then we said we was gone.
“Moreover,” I adds, “we have a
drivin’ license.”
“Jus’ the same,” says Sport,
“we ain’t stoppin’,” an’ he sets
his foot down on the accelerator.
I tells him that if there was anythin’ on his mind
I was entitled to know about it.
“Well,” he says, an’ the needle is hoverin’ roun’
seventy, “I tol’ you I didn’t like your idea in the first
place. It lacked finesse.” He handed me a fistful of
pamphlets. “I distributed about five hundred of ’em
while you was asleep to-day.”
I took up a dodger an’ read where Professor
Jensen, the world authority, would this night address
the citizens of Buena on the vital question of baby
culture.
“I forgot to tell you about it,” explains Sport.
The needle was now flutterin’ round eighty. I told
Sport to keep it there.
“Bill,” I said, “it’d be just like signing Thora’s
death warrant. I recognised that feller, an’ he’s one
of Sydney’s worst gunmen. He’d murder his mother
for two bob. The best thing we can do is let matters
take their course. You’ve got the hundred quid, 1
suppose.”
“Yeah,” said Bill, “I got that orright. I wrote
’ome for it.”
O KINNY was coming in by the next day’s train,
K and at eleven o’clock Bertie Tomlin and I were
both down at the train to meet him. The beard had
grown pretty well, and I nearly called him Thora
when Jie stepped off the train. We said hello and
then went into the nearest pub to talk over our plans.
Bertie passed the test as far as his share of it was
concerned.
“Skinny,” he said, “I dunno ’ow I can thank you
fer lettin’ me in on it. It’s the easiest tenner I ever
earned.”
When he had gone 1 started telling Skinny some-
thing that had been on my mind for the last couple
of days.
“What would happen,” said I, “if Bertie was to
take the hundred quid reward and vanish?”
“I thought of that,” said Skinny, “and that is
where you come in. When Bill passes over the re-
ward you are gonner offer to see Bertie safely back
to his house. When you’re out in the street you can
take the dough an’ give Bertie ’is tenner. Maybe e
won’t want no escort, but you ain’t takin’ no for
an answer. We ain’t takin’ no risks.”
At eight o’clock that night Bill and 1 were wait-
ing for them to show up.
“I ’ope nothin’ ’as gorn wrong,” said Bill.
And just at that moment there was a knock
on the door. Bertie couldn’t have lifted his hand off
the door before Bill had it open. There stood Bertie
Tomlin and Madame Thora.
“Thora,” yelped Bill.
“Bill,” said Skinny.
“Reward,” said Bertie.
“Are you safe an’ sound?” said Bill.
Skinny dabbed a handkerchief at his eyes. “Bill/ 1
he said, “I’ve ’ad a very tryin’ time. It’s a wonder
I’m alive to tell the tale. In fact, if it ’adn’t been for
this good man ’ere” —he threw out his arms —“who
knows?”
“At the peril of me own life,” said Bertie, “I
rescued ’er from the toils of Gentleman Gus. And
it was the pitcher of ’er sufferin’ beauty that decided
me to turn over a new leaf an’ with the reward money
to start a new life.”
“’Ave they been cruel to y’, Thora?” said Bill.
“Somethin’ dreadful,” said Skinny. “It’ll take
me a long time to get over it.”
“Did they take all the money?” said Bill.
“Every bit,” said Skinny, “an’ on’y for this dear
feller that stood up for me I mighter lorst me life.
He’s earned this reward which you so generously
offered for me safe return, an’ now ’is life must be
in grave danger.”
“I’ll give it to ’im now,” said Bill, diving into
his pocket. “There you are.”
Bertie took the ten ten-quid notes.
“Thanks,” he said. “It’ll mean me new start in
life. I better leave youse now because I gotter git
away from the city before Gentleman Gus finds out
wot I done.”
This was where I came in.
“It’d be better,” said I, “if one of us went with
you. You’ve got a lot of money in your pocket, and
there’s no knowing what could happen. I’ll see you
to your train. After all you’ve done for Madame
Thora it’s the least I could offer in return.”
Bertie looked Startled and I began to think that
it was just as well that we had decided that he needed
an escort.
“I wouldn’ think,” he said, “of troublin’ y’.”
“It’s no trouble,” said I; “it’s on my way.”
Bertie looked like a rabbit in a circle of grey-
hounds that hadn’t eaten for a week.
“I can look after meself,” he said dismally.
“You mus’n’ think of it,” said Skinny, “not after
all you done for me. Scut will see you safe to the
train an > you ’]i a bl e to start y OUI - n ew life in
e >.
H « TW , C riaUt ” Rill “von can’t be too
care f u i ” ’ ’
_ * . _ . ~ , . . „ tAr „
. Suddenly Bertie brightened up. Mister, he
Said ’ “ you ’ re r T lght ' X? U J e . me f ™ ends ’ } a J, S
wot you are. I jist realised it, an I d like you to do
snm< ,* h : n » fnr me ”
tor m '’ , „ ~
... , A .. r , a the apptness you brought me, said
BlU ’ We . d ° anymin • .
“Orright,” said Bertie, I on y been sayin that
1 didn ’ Want Mister Scdt tG g ° wi ? me be D CaUS£ J
thought it might be runnm 1m into danger. But now
, kn^w vmi .® me true friends it’s different No I
, ow you . '., ’
don t want Mister Scut to come to the tram with me.
I want youse all to come. I’m a lonely man an’ it
would make me very ’appy for me long journey.
Besides there’d be no danger at all if youse was all
to come. It’s me last wish an’ it’ll mean me ’appiness.”
ltT , , , , „ ~ , , ...
“It’s the least we can do, said Bill, and he picked
up his hat.
I could have wrung Bertie s neckbut there was
nothing we could do about it with Bill around. All
the way to the station Berne didn t move more than
six inches away from Bill. He even took Bill with
There have been times when I’ve
enjoyed seeing Bill, but Central
station half an hour before our
train was due to leave was not one
of them.
him when he went to buy his ticket. There was only
one bright spot in it, and that was just before the
train pulled out when Bill suggested that Thora ought
to give her rescuer a sisterly kiss. Skinny showed
me the piece of Bertie’s ear afterwards.
“I feel,” said Bill, when the train was pulling
out of the station, “that if ever a man deserved a
’undred quid it was ’im, don’t you, Thora?”
But Skinny was sobbing into one of Madame
Thora’s handkerchiefs.
Bill took a swallow. “She’s took it to ’eart, Scut.
She’s took it to ’eart.”
“I think,” said I, “it’s on account of all that
money it cost you to make her free.”
Suddenly Bill opened his mouth and started to
laugh.
“That,” he said, “that ain’t nothin’.”
“It ain’t my idea,” said I, “of what nothin’ should
be.”
“Gee,” said Bill, “it was funny. While you was
away a bloke kidded me into letting him back a
'orse for me. Twenty quid I give ’im and it won.”
“What you won,” said I, “still ain’t my idea of
nothing. Did you get paid your winnings?”
Bill laughed again. “I was pretty careful about
that,” he said, “I stood near ’im all the time. ’E
didn’ ’ave no chance of running away. That was the
funny part about it. ’E didn’t seem to want to get
away. ’E paid me right after the race out of ’is
own pocket.”
“And you’re still happy to give it away?” said I.
“Sure,” said Bill, “it was dud money. I near
got run in tryin’ to pass it. I’m real glad to get rid
of it.”
The handkerchief came away from Skinny’s eyes.
“Bill,” he said, “you’ve made me ’appy again.”
WANTED:
New Story Writers
Each month “The Bulletin” is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in “The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short—lsoo to 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates —
£2 2s. for each 1 100 words.
Closing date for the third monthly com-
petition is September 7. The sooner entries are
sent in the sooner they can be read and the
judging completed.


to their stature by novelty devices and exotic settings.
Brighouse’s contribution brings in the September
crisis during which a man and his wife bolt for the
safety of a country cottage, but after being swarmed
over by other intending refugees, including a crook
who would have robbed them all but for the sagacious
charwoman, and learning that 14 children from Ber-
mondsey are going to be billeted on them, they decide
to return to London and stick the bombs.
The Dream World.
Ever since Freud, writers on dreams have had to
treat the subject with deadly seriousness. R. L. Megroz
in The Dream World (Bodley Head) commits the
double heresies of bringing his sense of humor with
him and of doubting the purely materialistic interpre-
tations of the psycho-analysts. The key to his book
is his quotation from the Chinese: “Last night I
dreamed that I was a butterfly; and now I do not
know whether I am a man dreaming that he was a
butterfly or a butterfly dreaming that it is a man.” It
is amusing, mildly provocative and rather unsatisfac-
tory, partly because of the elusive nature of his sub-
ject, partly because —however attractive the theory
may be —Chinamen aren’t butterflies.
As a “survey of the history and mystery of dreams
from the earliest ages up to our own day” it is sketchy,
leaping from Artemidorus to Burton, Sir Thomas
Browne, Hobbes, Shelley and Freud in a single chapter,
and dismissing the ancient Greeks, Mexicans,
Egyptians, Chinese, Indians and Norsemen in another.
His intention is to show that all primitive nations
regarded the interpretation of dreams as of great im-
portance and that, among trickery and nonsense, there
was “scientific” thinking when Petronius, for example,
recognised that dreams were wish-fulfilments or when
Artemidorus discovered the importance of the asso-
ciation of ideas in dream imagery. The Egyptians,
he says, had “some recognition of the possibility of
telepathic communication.” From their nostrum for
producing dreams it looks as if they’re still in tele-
pathic communication with James Joyce:
Take a cat, black all over, and which has been
killed; prepare a writing tablet, and write the follow-
ing with a solution of myrrh, and the dream which
thou desirest to be sent, and put it into the mouth of
the cat. (The text to be transcribed runs) Keimi, Keimi,
I am the Great One in whose mouth rests Mommom,
Thoth, Namunbre, Karikha, Kenyro, Paarmiathon, the
sacred lan iee ien aeoi who is above the heaven,
Amekheumen, Nennana, Sennana, Ablanathanalba,
Akramm khamaria brasina lampsor eieeieiei aoeeo
theuris O
Megroz quotes both ancient and modern dreams
in an attempt to prove to the Freudians that
dreams may be caused by telepathy and that the
dreamer can travel in time, both into the past and
into the future. His best example of travelling into
the past is not a dream, but what was recorded as a
waking experience—the story of the two English-
women who visited the gardens of Versailles in 1901
and “saw” them as they were in 1789. Megroz says
“the essentials of the story have not yet been dis-
credited.”
On dreaming the future he has a couple of those
irresistible accounts of people dreaming the winner of
the two-thirty: Gerald Thesiger is supposed to have
dreamed, “A man was sentenced at the Old Bailey by
Justice Swift for stabbing. On being given five years
he said, ‘Thank you, my Lord, Solario for the Leger.’ ”
And Solario won. Megroz gives many examples of
premonitory dreams, including that of President Lin-
coln before his assassination.
Most of the stories are documented as far as is
possible, but Megroz slips very badly at times. No
doubt it is true that Osbert Sitwell dreams often about
a one-legged raven, and there’s a lunacy that rings true
about the poem J. C. Squire dreamed and thought was
marvellous until he woke up:
There was a boy grew twenty inch, yes,
Twenty inch a year,
It might have made his mother flinch, but
She was quite a dear;
Yes, she was excellent,
And she was well content
To watch her offspring forge ahead in his
Peculiar sphere.
But something more than the imagination of the
dreamer has been at work on the dream of the actress
Nancy Price, which he appears to accept without
question:
“Yew must have yan o’ t’latest,” said Mrs. Marks-
and-Spencer, and, opening a little blue bag, she took
from it a skein of “tarry woo’,” dozens of bottles of
ink, a packet of forked lightning, a factory chimney,
a twopenny tram-ticket and a bunch of Belisha bubbles.
Seven Years in Mexico.
R. H. K. Marett spent seven years in Mexico,
working at jobs connected with the railways and
newspapers, and married a Spanish girl, a circum-
stance that enabled him to penetrate social layers of
the country usually closed to foreigners. An Eye-
witness of Mexico (Oxford University Press) is a
quiet book, but interesting, packed with information
and illustrated with very fine photographs.
It goes into the past and present of Mexico very
thoroughly. The countryside, with its few bold pat-
terns in vivid colors, its violent changes of tempera-
ture from torrid heat to biting cold, its spareness, its
dryness, its haunting blue skies, has known many con-
querors, arid one civilisation is laid on top of another
like the writings in a palimpsest, some of them already
illegible in time.
The history of this not very rich country has
always run to extremes, possibly because it is a land
to prey on the imagination. It raises the emotional
temperature, and revolution comes naturally. It has
been the scene of the almost legendary Maya civilisa-
tions, the Toltec invasions, the Aztec decadence
with its streams of sacrificial blood, the one-man
miracle of the Spanish conquest, the story of mingled
barbarity and saintliness that is the record of the
Spanish occupation, and all the kaleidoscopic changes
down to the latest revolution.
But through it all, unchanged or very little
changed in the centuries, the Indian has survived. He
represents continuity in Mexico. Amid change he
has been preserved partly because his conquerors
made their own fun and partly because the Spanish
Fathers who converted him to Christianity grafted
the new faith on the old and preserved as many of
the old customs and crafts as possible. The Indians
are to-day one of the few living primitive peoples with
their own arts and crafts in full bloom. But civilisa-
tion is moving in upon them. They are too interesting
to be left in peace.
The Indian, I came to realise, is the “problem
child” of the Mexican family. While he himself seems
quite content to drowse away the day sitting in the
shade of the plaza, he has the faculty of rousing in all
those with whom he comes in contact the feeling that
something should be done about him. Tourists gush
over him and take his photograph; artists paint his
portrait and adopt his picturesque dress; anthropolo-
gists take the measurements of his head and pry into
the most intimate details of his private life; missionaries
try to convert him from his pagan ways; politicians rant
about him in their speeches; while the wicked capital-
ists, as far as they get a chance to do so in these days
of revolution, exploit him ruthlessly. The Indian seems
to be quite unmoved by all this attention, and would
probably much rather be left alone in all his primitive
squalor.
The exploitation of the Indian by the “wicked
capitalist” seems to Marett to be a good standing joke.
British capital had built the harbor at Vera Cruz, the
railways and the hydro-electric plant at Orizaba, and
installed sanitary systems in the cities; but none of
these enterprises ever paid more than 3 per cent., and
have now ceased to pay anything. “If anyone has
been exploited, I could not but reflect, it was that
involuntary philanthropist the British investor.”
Kindness rather than unscrupulousness is under-
mining the Indian. The cinema and the wireless set
are worming their way into his life and subtly chang-
ing his values—though one woman, asked if she had
a radio set, indicated that it wasn’t necessary as she
lived on the main road and the traffic made plenty of
noise. Since there is no prejudice against inter-
marriage, the white and Indian stocks are slowly and
painlessly blending. The current revolution represents
the mestizo or half-caste, and is bureaucratic in its
outlook.
Revolution, which is gradually seeping down to
the Indian, is twisted somewhat strangely from the
world pattern. The stable Government in Mexico
to-day calls itself the Revolution, and endeavors to
combine nationalism and Communism, the first to
provide the motive power and the second the prin-
ciples. The avowed intention of the Revolution is to
reinstate the Indian —the peasant —on the land by an
agrarian policy which is absorbing and redistributing
the big haciendas. The Indian, however, refuses with
the tacit obstinacy of his kind to change his ways,
and, as the land falls into his hands, continues his
immemorial custom of producing just enough beans
and maize for his own consumption, with the result
that the country is rapidly going back and producing
no surplus. The Revolution is also anti-clerical, while
the Indian remains intensely devout. The result is a
quiet sort of impasse.
Despite a sanguinary history, Marett found the
Mexicans a pleasant, happy and peaceable people in
their daily lives, and dismisses much of the revolu-
tionary talk as “good theatre.” One of his interesting
contacts was with the famous artist Diego Rivera, who
is one of the most uncompromising revolutionaries in
the country, and dresses the part in a wide-brimmed
black beaver hat, flowing cloak with purple lining, and
pistols—which he hands in at cloakrooms with his
hat and cloak to the occasional horror of the atten-
dant.
A New Stevenson Biography.
Latest addition to Macmillan’s admirable “Eng-
lish Men of Letters” is Stephen Gwynn’s Robert
Louis Stevenson. Holding a fair balance between
appreciation and criticism it follows a method hitherto
mostly confined to musical biographies—that of de-
tailed analysis of style and thematic material. In this
way Mr. Gwynn traces in such Highland stories as
Kidnapped, Catriona and The Master of Ballantrae
the influence of one of Stevenson’s earliest precentors,
his old nurse, Alison Cunningham (“Cummie” to the
children for ever), both in matter and manner of
narration.
Tt was the nurse who infected his mind with her own
delight in words. She thought plays the invention of
the devil, but her declamation was dramatic —“reading
the works of others as a poet would scarcely dare to
read his own; gloating.on the rhythm, dwelling with
delight on assonances and alliterations ” She read
selections from Presbyterian sermons, and, above all,
stories of the Covenanters and how they suffered for
their faith.
Stevenson’s reading of great Scottish trials, the
most palatable part (to him) of the law studies he
undertook when it became clear he would not follow
in his father’s footsteps as a civil engineer and erector
of lighthouses, also fed his vein as a maker of Scottish
historical novels. Of course he read, and admired,
Scott. A similar affection for Dumas, whom he placed
on a much higher pinnacle than most French critics
do, supplemented by some Bohemianising in Paris in
early manhood, paved the way for Prince Otto and
some period short stories.
The unfinished Weir of Hermiston, Mr. Gwynn
considers, had as its principal inspiration Raeburns
painting of Braxfield, the hanging Judge. It could
never be suggested that R.L.S.’s terrible literary por-
trait of the formidable Weir had much autobiographi-
cal connection with the writer’s own father, Thomas
Stevenson. They quarrelled, it is true, but with deep
regret on both sides. And when Stevenson, exiled in
California, telegraphed the news of his marriage to
divorced Mrs. Osbourne, the old man’s was
terse and to the point: “Count on £250 annually.”
Of course a great deal of Stevenson’s work was
not derivative. Treasure Island is the pure gold ot
romantic invention ; so, in a vastly different field, is
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. There is a gentle reproach
for Hollywood, which heaped such lashings of sex into
the latter, in Mr. Gwynn’s commentary on the
original’s sexlessness:
Nowadays, when in psychological studies so much
attention is given to repressed sexual impulses, it may be
doubtful whether any author handling such a theme
would have been so reticent. It may even be doubted
whether Balzac would have been. Yet Stevenson would
never paint anything which he would not paint out-
right. .. .Working as he worked under Victorian restric-
tions, he avoided as far as possible all scenes of love-
making, except the most virginal. But in this instance
I think a sure instinct guided him. Insistence on the
sexual would have brought colors into the story alien .
to its pattern.
Stevenson’s own account of his attitude in this
matter is explicit:
“With all my romance I am a realist and a
prosaist and a most fanatical lover of plain physical
sensations plainly and expressly rendered; hence my
perils. To do love in the same spirit as I did (for
instance) D. Balfour’s fatigue in the heather; my dear
sir, that were grossness—ready made.”
Mr. Gwynn covers adequately Stevenson’s two
sojourns in the U.S.A., with their main result in
the final chapters of The Master, and sketches briefly
the closing scenes in Samoa, not forgetting the cir-
cumstances that inspired the fierce defence of Father
Damien, and R.L.S.’s successful tussles with bureau-
crats who troubled his beloved Samoans. Stevenson,
even if “a Scot only in sentiment,” found ready to his
hand the “chieftain and clan” system when he settled
at Vailima, and put his dusky retainers in kilts. He
died very suddenly and painlessly while helping his wife
to prepare a salad. Lloyd Osbourne, his stepson and
collaborator, records that when he stooped to unlace
the boots from the dead body, memory was with him
of Stevenson’s many times expressed wish “that I may
die in my boots.” Mr. Gwynn sums up: “Novelist in
many kinds, essayist, poet and admirable critic, he
was beyond doubt a craftsman who not only gave
immense pleasure to readers but rendered high service
to his art.”
Detective Novels by Women.
Of five new detective novels, four —all good—
are from women writers.
Murder Is Easy (Collins ; Angus and Robertson),
from the experienced pen of Agatha Christie, shows
that her narrative powers haven’t slackened. The
“surprise ending” is worked up to with great skill.
It is a tale of curious happenings in an English .
village, developing speedily into the tragic. The main
characters, including one of the victims, one of the
investigators of the crimes and the perpetrator of
them, are women. Hercule Poiret, sad to say, makes
no appearance.
The Frightened Sailor, by David Sharp (Herbert
Jenkins ; Dymbck’s), is also a good story, although
not quite up to Agatha Christie’s. It has a Captain
Dolby, dope-running and strange adventures, several
bodies and some excellently written passages descrip-
tive of West of England scenery.
There is more than a little humor. Professor
Fielding and his smart friend, Sheridan Orford, the
amateur sleuth to whose Holmes the professor plays the
Watson, are pleasantly and naturally drawn people.
The book is free from “love-interest.”
Georgette Heyer has a new thriller in No Wind
of Blame (Hodder and Stoughton ; Angus and Robert-
son), and well sustains her reputation in this genre. It
will be popular for its characterisation rather than for
its thrills, however. For, although there is an interest-
ing murder, it is neither the corpse nor the criminal
that “makes” the story, but the eccentricities and what
Artemus Ward once referred to as “the little idiot s
syncracies” of the corpse’s wife and stepdaughter.
One of the women is a fatuous eccentric and the
other a poseuse; and, combined, their methods, or
lack of them, succeed in bewildering the detective.
The woolgathering Ermyntrude Carter manages to hit
on the identity of the criminal by “intuition,” while
the stepdaughter almost succeeds in convicting herself
of the crime by her affection for the limelight. A
rather incredible little love affair runs through the story.
Apparently the tale with the curious title of Dead
Men Sing No Songs (Hodder and Stoughton ;
Dymock’s) is a first novel. Miranda Stuart has written
an unusual thriller, both in the plot and in the ease
and competence of the style. Its events occupy the
guests at a country residence for a little over a week,
and each chapter is devoted to the incidents of the
one day.
The death of a musician is accepted prima facie
as a suicide, but events throw doubt on the verdict.
The death of a second musician at the home of the
first one’s widow —clearly a murder —leads to both
fatalities receiving the attention of Scotland Yard.
Nearly every member of the house party is suspected
in turn. Suspense is well sustained, and the identity
of the criminal comes as a surprise.
Nine Green Bottles, by Joan A. Cowdray, is a
capital thriller published by Hutchinson’s (Dymock’s),
with a plot based upon the old jingle which gives its
title to the book. A wealthy but crotchety old man,
having decided to make things as uncomfortable as he
can for his relatives after his death, leaves all his
money on a tontine system whereby the last survivor
of a number of beneficiaries mentioned in the will gets
the w’hole lot.
The incentive for each of the interested parties to
make sure of his or her ultimate survivorship by re-
moving all other possible claimants makes the sudden
deaths of three or four of them highly suspicious; and
the trustees find it necessary to call in both official
and private sleuths. The story is most ingeniously
worked out, and in the end the money goes to one who
has no knowledge of the tontine or of the fact that he
has any interest whatever under the will.


ALWAYS AS SMART AS A HAT CAN BE
U
é
“The Leader ” Another fine
Failsworth production , in a
full range of new season’s
shades , shapes , textures.
A high-grade hat that will
stand any amount of hard
wear and still retain
its appearance
30'
There’s one sure way to be certain that your hat is correct and
authentic to the last detail—whether you buy it in a city shop
or a country store —in the far North of Queensland or the tip of
Tasmania. Look for the brand—and be sure it’s an English
“Failsworth” ! They’re always the smartest hats you can buy !
They’re made by the largest manufacturers of fine hats in
England, at Failsworth, near Manchester . . . styled by English
experts . . . finished to ensure long life and lasting smartness.
They re as famous on the Continent and in America as in England
—and there’s every shape and shade and style to choose from !
Be sure it’s an English “Failsworth”!
Wholesale distributors for Australia :
Wallace, Buck & Goodes Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth
35'
HOMBURGS • MIXTURES • SMOOTH FELTS • FORMAL HATS • COUNTRY HATS


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
/Jffblt c Hfiie cflate mellcmieJSxmcUmiq/ud
THE OLD CURIOSITY' SHOP.
Whether or not the quaint building depicted in Portsmouth-street, a none-too-delectable thoroughfare in Central London, is “The Old
Curiosity Shop” Dickens immortalised when in 1840 he gave to the world that, beautiful story bearing this somewhat curious title, few if
any visitors to London will fail to see it. Here, if but make-believe, one is drawn closer to that beautiful and pathetic figure Little Nell,
whose “history” has stirred the deepest and most tender emotions of which the human heart is capable, and will continue to do so while
sympathy remains implanted in the bosoms of mankind. Then there are those wonderful characters Codiin and Shoit, who add,
as it were, such a touch of “the realities of everyday life” to the marvellous romance the master genius evolved. The Dickens Fellowship
is wide as the lands wherein the English tongue is spoken, hence it is no matter for surprise, even admitting thequestion of “topographical
inaccuracy” of the building depicted, that members of that fellowship are drawn to a centre by a title which conjures up so many, so
pleasant yet so sad memories.


IT’S HARVEST-TIME IN EUROPE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Bos
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia : Gordon & Gotch ( Aus .), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £l 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
OFF TO MOSCOW.
It was known in Paris on July 29 that British and
French military staff officers were to go to Moscow
for talks with the Soviet military chiefs, whoever the
latter may be since the last purge. The information
was given at a Cabinet meeting by Foreign Minister
Bonnet, the gentleman who prefaced the Congress
debate on Neutrality Act revision with a declaration
that France expected a definite pledge from the Ameri-
cans that they would side with it in the event of war ;
and it was conveyed to a “semi-official” newsagency.
From this source, by way of London, it reached Aus-
tralia on July 31. That afternoon it was repeated in
the House of Commons by Mr. Chamberlain, his
statement being published in Dominion newspapers
on August 1.
The incident indicates —startlingly to those who can
remember Fashoda —the extent to which French poli-
ticians are influencing British policy. Dominion influ-
ence seems infinitesimal by comparison, though aftei
all the Dominions do belong to the Empire and then-
fate is bound up with it. And there are in the
Dominions at least half as many white men capable
of bearing arms as there are in France, and more than
there are in Poland or Rumania less their very doubt-
ful minorities.
The military mission may, and may not, hasten
the conclusion of the Russian alliance, negotiations
for which have been dragging on for nearly five
months. A disconcerting sequel to its appointment was
a meeting of the Japanese ambassadors from Rome
and Berlin at Cernobbio, the place where the Italo-
German alliance was arrived at, “to conclude prepara-
tions for a military alliance with the Axis.”
Australians have been led to believe that all
sections of British opinion, divided as they are on
other subjects, are in favor of an arrangement with
Moscow. This is very far from being the case.
There is in England an Imperial Policy Group,
which, among other things, has its own in-
vestigators in different parts of Europe, Asia and
Africa and publishes the substance of their reports in
a monthly Memorandum, issued to members and to
non-members who have held high posts in Britain
and the Dominions. The June Memorandum —for a
copy of which The Bulletin is indebted to a distin-
guished Australian —deals with the situation in Gei-
many, the Balkans (“most unsatisfactory”), Egypt,
Asia Minor and the Near East, and devotes a special
study to the Mighty Soviet War Machine, of flapper-
press fancy.
The Memorandum begins with a warning:
From every source of information in Europe we
have received reports which compel us to issue a warn-
ing against the belief, so strongly propagated by the
majority of the press, that a military alliance with the
Soviet is a complete panacea for the disorders of Europe.
A large proportion of the dispatches and correspondence
in the British press are, in our opinion, optimistically
misleading.
It goes on to set out, very soberly, the arguments
for and against being tied to Moscow. Australians
are familiar with the contentions of the pro-alliance
crowd that “Poland and Rumania could not be saved
without the assistance of the Soviet,” and that if the
U.S.S.R. is not “brought into full alliance the whole
British defensive system must break in pieces”;
familiar also with cabled references to “the obstacles”
that have divided London and Moscow. They have
been told that Latvia, Estonia and Finland are “ob-
stacles,” since they resolutely refuse to be guaranteed
by a seditious Power from which they broke away
in the first place, and which for 20 years they have
kept at arm’s length. But they will be rather aston-
ished to learn, on the authority of the editor of the
Memorandum, Mr. Kenneth De Courcy, that Poland
and Rumania are “obstacles” as great or greater.
Both countries are disinclined to be saved if the
price required of them is full military collaboration
with the U.S.S.R. If Britain and France persist in a
determination to create such an alliance, they will
come up against a body of Polish and Rumanian
opinion so powerful that the whole laboriously-erected
structure of “non-aggression States” will in any event
be overturned. That is the view of experts who
know these countries extremely well. If, therefore, the
Russian alliance is pressed, Britain must be prepared
for the possible defection of both Poland and Rumania.
Poland, of course, had to cope with a Bolshevik
invasion in 1920, and it reveres Pilsudski, who hurled
the Russians back to their steppes, as its liberator.
Rumania holds Bessarabia, which was Russian until
Tsarist Russia collapsed. The Memorandum notes that
“Bessarabia is still marked on Russian maps as the
Moldavian Republic of the U.S.S.R.”
There are other countries which, rather than give
Red armies and commissars the right to career over
their territories, would come to terms with Berlin:
“a considerable number of countries, the friendship
of which is important to Britain.”
The conclusion of an alliance with the Soviet will
therefore achieve fpr Germany almost all that she
desires at this stage, without the firing of a shot or
even an international crisis. It will also provide Herr
Hitler with his much-needed propaganda at home.
Evidence of this is to be found in the non-aggression
agreements made with the Germans by Estonia, Latvia
and Denmark, and in the indignant refusal of Holland
to be dragged into any Anglo-Russian guarantee.
Switzerland, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, Sweden and
Norway are other countries which would resent a Biit-
ish alliance with the U.S.S.R.- The Finns, friendly not
only with Sweden, Norway and Denmark, but with
.Germany also, are hostile to Russia, so hostile that in
Finland Communism is under a legal ban.
But if the Little Countries turned away from
Britain, and Poland and Rumania with them, there
would still remain “an alliance with a nation alleged
to possess great military force.” Does the party to the
proposed alliance really possess great military force,
and would —or could —it fight? The Memorandum
expresses doubt on both points.
Man-power is certainly great. “The peace-time
strength of the army is 1,800,000 ; its strength within
a month would probably be anything between four
or five million men ; its final strength in a general
war might be as high as 11 millions.” And with light
and heavy machine-guns, light cannon and tanks, the
army is pretty well supplied. Moreover, “the small-
arms equipment is fairly good, and there is a fair
reserve of ammunition of all types.” But “Russia s
capacity to manufacture munitions in time of war is
not commensurate with the size of its army” and “the
supply of heavy artillery is inadequate.”
As for the Red Air Force, it has “about 5000
aircraft,” but “production is rather slow.”
The pursuit machines put up a good performance;
the reconnaisance machines are rather poor; the heavy
bombers are slow and out of date.
The personnel is much the same ; good in spots.
Soviet pilots are believed to have done fairly well in
Spain; they have courage, but perhaps they lack the
team spirit; as a force they lack initiative and sound
judgment. Ground personnel is unsatisfactory. Russians
make poor mechanics and take very little pride in their
mechanical work. The Russian has an extraordinary-
desire to play about with his machine rather than to
treat it seriously. Nothing gives him greater pleasure
than to pick an engine to pieces, and nothing is harder
for him than to put it together again. In fact, if he
can possibly avoid it, he rarely does so.
Of the navy, “accurate estimates are impossible.
Russia possesses about 145 submarines, many of which
are modern,” and “a good number of light torpedo
craft. Not many ships in the higher-tonnage classes
have been built since 1918.”
If war came the army would be handicapped by
bad rail and road communications. The railway sys-
tem in particular is so poor that “not more than 150
divisions could be deployed on the western front,”
and the quality of the officers is doubtful because of
defective education. “A large proportion were illiterate
when they entered the military schools and the
majority had only primary education.”
The last report of Marshal Tukhachevsky to the
Congress of the Soviets showed that only 15 per cent,
of the colonels and about half the senior officers had
passed through military academies. This was, of course,
before the purge.
In the purge “three marshals, 68 senior generals
and 312 junior generals and brigadiers were shot.’
Tukhachevsky himself received a bullet in the back
of the head; “of the eight generals who condemned
him, six themselves received the same punishment in
due time.” Probably 60 per cent, of the staff was
“liquidated.” Civil officers likewise suffered, and as a
result “the morale of the U.S.S.R., both military and
civilian, has been greatly undermined.”
The purges started in 1937 and lasted till 1938,
and recent accounts suggest that there have been the
beginnings of another.
We have to ask ourselves what political strife was
brewing under the surface which made such wholesale
executions possible. According to the best information,
there was a widespread pro-German party in the armed
forces, and if, under such rigid government, a plot could
go so far when the risks were so terrible, then indeed
there must be deep-seated ill-feeling somewhere, and
the situation must be a very doubtful one.
Many experts hold the view that Russia could not
stand the strain of war and that if Stalin ever dared
to order complete mobilisation the armed forces would
be occupied not so much in dealing with Germany as
with setting up a new regime in Russia. Others believe
that in any event chaos would result.
Chaos resulted in every major war which Russia,
Tsarist or Communist, has waged during the past cen-
tury. It was the result in the Crimea in 1854, in
Manchuria in 1904, in East Prussia in 1914, on all
the fronts from Riga to Kermanshah in 1917 and in
Poland in 1920. It seems to be in the nature of this
blend of races, Asiatic and European, to crack up in
. desperate emergencies.
For that reason, for the other reasons given in the
De Courcy Memorandum, and because the credit and
safety of the Empire and, above all, the future of
Australia and Maoriland are involved, The Bulletin
hopes, with the members of the Imperial Policy Group,
that the humiliating negotiations at Moscow will fail.
If the rulers of Germany and Italy are mad and bad
enough to start a war, with or without the help of
Japan, let us take the war without a rotten alliance
that would divide the Empire and cost it the moral
support of the decent nations that hate and despise
the other party. The British Commonwealth of
Nations can protect itself by its own exertions, and in
their own interests the Americans could not stand
aside if it seemed in danger of going down. It cannot
protect, and should not guarantee, the Oriental Gov-
ernment and the immense territories of Muscovites
who have a bad record in war and a worse record
in peace.
"This War of Words."
On the twenty-fifth anniversary of the beginning of
the Great War, Mr. Chamberlain said “Britain is now
ready for any emergency,” and thereupon moved that
the House of Commons adjourn till October
3. A Labor amendment, supported by Mr. Churchill,
drew from the Prime Minister the statement that “we
have no information at the present time which leads
us to suppose it will be necessary to call the House
together at any particular moment in a fortnight or
three weeks,” though he promised that it should be
summoned if it became “necessary to pass new legis-
lation not at present contemplated,” or to take
measures “to meet an unexpected situation.” He asked
the House to make its vote one of confidence in the
Government, and the House did —by 245 to 139. Mr.
Amery, Mr. Eden, Mr. Churchill and the Glamor
Boys absented themselves from the division.
In a previous statement on the general situation
in Europe and East Asia, Mr. Chamberlain suggested
that it could be improved “if only we could halt this
war of words.”
Unhappily, bad feeling between nations is fomented
daily by poisonous propaganda in the press and by
other means.
“Poisonous propaganda” is the right term for much
of the stuff that has come by the cable, mail and
ether routes even to these distant and peaceful
Dominions; and bad as the Axis contribution to the
war of words may be —very little of it reaches these
countries—it could scarcely be worse, in manner and
matter, than the Left Wing poison from which there
is no escape. But without publishing what Mr. Cham-
berlain actually said, the Sydney “Daily Telegraph
took him to task. “To halt ‘the war of words’ in
what he claims as the interests of peace,” it sneered,
“is a desire he shares with Hitler; happily neither is
likely to achieve such a desire.” This in an article
headed “Hush-Hush Policy Would Not Help Peace.”
The “Daily Telegraph’s” part in the war of words
is sufficiently notorious. One of the fairy-tales to
which it has given prominence was that Germany
and Italy would take advantage of the British people’s
preoccupation with loyal ceremonies and processions
to invade Spain “during Coronation Week.” It is not
above resorting to a “hush-hush policy” of its own, as
witness its “report” of the Budget-faking charge,
blurted out by young Mr. Robson, which led to the
resignation of Minister Spooner and the defeat of the
Stevens Government on ex-Minister Spooner s
motion—“ Mr. Robson added.. . .after certain strong
criticism of State finances which Mr. Spooner had
made to him.” On the same occasion it was revealed
that the “Telegraph’s” senior contemporary, which
has so often challenged the Axis world, can descend
to “hush-hush” in the service of political friends. Wit-
ness its second-edition report (“A statement by Mr.
Robson that Mr. Spooner had expressed a critical
opinion regarding the misleading nature of the last
Budget caused a sensation”), its first-edition account
having begun with the words, “Mr. Murray Robson
said that Mr. Spooner had informed him that the last
Budget had been faked and that the finances of the
State had been manipulated.”
The “Sunday Sun” is another Sydney paper that
sets itself on a pedestal. In a letter addressed to “lead-
ing publications,” and here printed last week, the
Federal Council of the Chambers of Automotive
Industries protested against “the continuance of war-
scare talk in certain quarters and its overemphasis,
whether by exaggerated headlines or by unwarranted
interpretations,” and suggested that all statements,
whether from local or overseas sources, should be
“carefully weighed, with a view to the prevention of
any news appearing that will unnecessarily reduce con-
fidence.” A very proper remonstrance, for, as every
newspaperman knows, the Australian public has for
years been fed with plain and fancy lies, half-lies, base-
less suggestions and sensational headlines on the sub-
ject of foreign affairs. Itself a wild scaremonger before
it suddenly changed its policy, the Sunday Sun,
after publishing part of the letter, had the face to
assert that “all Australia deprecates ‘war scare.’ ”
With equal effrontery it added, “Australia would not
tolerate for one instant deliberate mutilation of news
for the sake of ‘confidence’; the council in its mani-
festo suggests a censorship, suggests suppression of
news when it is bad. Gentlemen, you are committing
a grave error in thinking thus.”
In point of fact, the council itself struck a cen-
sorship. Its letter was ignored by most of the news-
papers to which it was sent. Rightly taken, its com-
munication merely asked conductors of newspapers
to extend to the reporting of foreign affairs the stand-
ards which, for the protection of their pockets as
well as their reputation, they apply in the reporting
of local affairs. No responsible newspaper would dare
to publish alarmist or provocative articles containing
slanderous matter on the strength of information from
dubious or tainted sources, but this has been done
times out of number in the domain of foreign affairs.
The “Sunday Sun” itself came out with the “whopper ’
about the Black Box in which Mussolini concealed his
plot for sinking the Royal Navy, and which he con-
signed to an aeroplane bound for Abyssinia.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Mr. Spooner and Mr. Stevens.
Long ago it was said there were too many accountants
in and about the Stevens Government, and account-
ants had leading parts at its decease, burial and resur-
rection under another name.
Accountant Stevens had to resign in consequence
of a resolution in the name of accountant Spooner—
his colleague for seven years and deputy-leader of the
party of which accountant Stevens was leader —
accepted as a censure motion. Accountant Hartigan
had contributed to accountant Stevens’s downfall by
predicting a Railway Department surplus—accountant
Hartigan is head of the department—of £5OOO,
whereas, as accountant Stevens gloomily mentioned on
his political deathbed, “the railways will show a deficit
of £1,355,000” —which means £2,355,000 at least.
Accountant Stevens fell because he had been
Premier too long and had made too many domestic
enemies. He was useful to N. S. Wales and to Aus-
tralia in 1932 and two or three subsequent years —
more perhaps because of negative than positive virtues
—but he went the way that nearly all Sydney poli-
ticians who reach high office go: borrowed and spent
vastly without giving a thought to the morrow. The
domestic enemies he made, not by careering on this
rake's progress—they thoroughly approved of it —
but by chucking some gentlemen out of his Ministry,
and refusing to chuck others in. Also by contriving to
keep on good terms with the Country party, a thing
necessary to the existence of his Administration but
unpardonable in the eyes of U.A.P. members and of
Sydney papers like the “Daily Telegraph,” to which
the Country party, decent as its personnel is and
thoroughly representative of such great parts of the
Commonwealth as the Riverina and the N.S.W. North
Coast, is “the Standover party,” a term applied to
the lowest denizens of the Sydney underworld.
Mr. Stevens is down and out —of office, anyway.
This generation and other generations will have to
pay for his long loan drunk. But it is due to him to
say that he suffered his totally unexpected crash
without losing his temper or making reproaches that
he was entitled to make. He comes out of the business
far better than Mr. Spooner, whom he raised to the
Cabinet immediately Mr. Spooner became a politician,
and who did not turn against him —was, on the con-
trary, willing to remain in the Cabinet and go on
spending easy money “to relieve unemployment,”
which, as a result, has become a lot worse —until a
young member had taxed him with saying that the
Budget was faked.
On the censure motion Mr. Spooner was sup-
ported by nine U.A.P. members, who, as politicians,
are a poor lot. Some of these worthies were seen
wringing the hands of Labor members. The day will
come when they will be wringing their own hands. T wo
days after the division they walked out of a party meet-
ing, which was a Donnybrook without the blackthorns,
and some of them had the gall to ask the Governor
to commission their Spooner—who “squibbed” it
again— to form a Ministry instead of Mr. Mair, who
was elected party leader and sworn in as Premier.
The Country party adopted the right attitude. It
kept together, and gazed on the spectacle of the U.A.P.
tearing itself to pieces without saying a word. In
spite of what the Stunt Press may say, it is the one
non-Labor party —in N.S.W. and Victoria anyway —
with a future. If it comes out for abolition of State
Parliaments and the substitution in N.S.W. of three
county or provincial councils, it will get strong support
in Sydney itself.
Reporting on the 1937-38 N.S.W. accounts, which
were alleged to show a surplus of £53,800, the Audi-
tor-General wrote that there had been instead a defi-
ciency of £418,500, an accumulated deficiency since
1928-29 of £30,643,900, and since 1931 an increase of
£66,058,500 in “the loan liability to the Common-
wealth.” All this apart from the operations of “semi-
Government authorities” like the Sydney Water Board
(that concern alone is spending loan money at the rate
of £3,000,000 a year) and local bodies which have been
stuffed with loans. What the A.-G. will make of the
admitted 1938-39 deficit of £2,750,000 —the latest of
several guesses —can be imagined. After all the
squandering not only are there many thousands more
unemployed, but rates have gone up and taxes are
going up again.
The truth is that the seven-Parliament system is
doomed. It is breaking down under the weight of the
politicians’ own crazy extravagance and follies.
A Visitor Goes Home.
At the end of this month, Mr. K. Takahashi, wool-
buyer for the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, returns to his
native land. He is one of the best-known figures in
the wool trade. A fine tennis-player and golfer, as
well as a splendid judge of wool, he became so well
established in Australia that the trade solemnly con-
ferred on him the title of “The Dinkum Aussie ’ —
always a source of pride to him. His children were
born in Australia and partly educated here.
During the 21 years Mr. Takahashi lived in the
Commonwealth, he bought over 1,600,000 bales of
Australian wool, valued at somewhere round
£30,000,000. He is to become manager of the tech-
nical branch of a special wool investigation depart-
ment established by his firm, which is one of the larg-
est concerns —in half a dozen industrial avenues —rin
Japan. He is of opinion that, despite past fluctuations,
Japanese and Chinese woollen mills are bound to
start working at high pressure so soon as the war is
over; and he has insisted at more than one farewell
gathering that when conditions become normal Japan-
ese buying of Australian wool may well reach
1,000,000 bales per annum.
Mr. Chamberlain has made a speech which, in
some quarters, has been construed to mean that
Britain might have to send part of the battle-fleet to
the China Seas. It might be better to send a party of
Australians in the wool trade to talk things over with
Japanese as friendly as Mr. Takahashi.
Men Without a Country.
Mr. Foll, the umpteenth Minister for the Interior
since the war, is about to make the usual pilgrimage
to the Northern Territory.
The Northern Territory is looked on in Can-
berra as a poor relation. It is kept in complete
subjection to bureaucracies. In Papua and New
Guinea, there are Legislative Councils; but care is
taken to see that these bodies are dominated by
official majorities who take their instructions from
headquarters. The Northern Territory lacks even a
Council. Territorians have no voice in the making of
their own laws, save that their member is permitted
to move disallowance of Ordinances, if Parliament
can find time to hear him.
On the eve of Mr. Foil’s departure for the North,
there has been a bout of lawmaking for the Terri-
tory in Canberra. The first mines inspection Ordi-
nance in the history of 68 years of N.T. mining has
been issued. It will shut out foreigners who have
become Australian miners without learning English.
In other respects, it is a useful measure, badly needed.
However, it is imposed not by will of the Terri-
torian voters, but by that of the Administrator, who
is created a complete autocrat in mining matters:
The Administrator may make regulations, not incon-
sistent with this Ordinance prescribing... .all other
matters relating to the regulation and working of
mines not expressly provided for by the Ordinance.
Regulations under this Ordinance may be made applic-
able to all mines in the Territory, or mines within any
particular district of the Territory, or to any mine or
mines within any particular district.
Also, the Executive Council has created a Native
Affairs Department in a measure of two sections, and
without any public discussion it has framed an
Ordinance “to amend ‘The Criminal Law Consolida-
tion Act 1876’ of the State of South Australia, in
its application to the Northern Territory and for
Other Purposes.” What “other purposes” it would
be interesting to know. The Crimes Ordinance of
1928-34 is repealed with one shot. The whole range
of sentences to which convicted persons are liable
has been revised —56 types of sentence are affected.
The law has been altered to provide that where
an abo. is convicted of murder the Court shall not
be obliged to pronounce sentence of death, but may
impose any penalty which appears just and propej*.
A Judge may now hear specific evidence relative to
native law and custom before passing sentence on a
native murderer. It is a salutary change, but the idea
that a Minister in Canberra by a sweep of the pen
can change the criminal law as it affects 6000 Aus-
tralians and several thousand natives does not fit in
with Australian ideas of democracy.
Twenty years ago it was necessary to govern the
Territory as a remote dependency. Even after the
war the journey from Sydney to Darwin overland was
likely to occupy six weeks or more. But to-day
Ministers hurtle to Darwin from Canberra by ’plane
one day and can be back in southern capitals within
48 hours. Every N.T. centre of population has its
aerodrome. This sixth of the continent, which holds
the aerial gateway to it and one of the most vital
defensive points, should at least have a Provincial
Council if not a member with full voting power.
Explaining Hitler.
“L.L.”: A scientist has given the British Social
Hygiene Summer School at Oxford a new theory about
Hitler: he is suffering from an overdeveloped thyroid,
and hence excessive vitality and excitability. That
this should have been thought worth cabling to Aus-
tralia shows how little Hitler is understood, especially
by university professors.
Possibly Hitler is a hyperthyroidic sort of person
whose glands are working overtime ; but what does
that tell us? Probably there are millions of hyper-
thyroids in Germany, but they are not Hitlers. Some
of them, no doubt, are lunatics. Rembrandt may have
been a hyperthyroid, from all we know to the con-
trary, and so may Plato and Shakspeare. They were
certainly extraordinarily active and excited individuals,
but the important thing is what excited them and
made them active?
The problem of the one and the many excited
Plato so much that he spent his whole life thinking
about it and cognate problems. Consequently he made
himself into the greatest philosopher in Greece and
possibly of all time. Certain problems of tone and
color excited Rembrandt. Other painters were ex-
cited by them, but when the problems became
too difficult they could divert themselves with beer
or girls. Rembrandt couldn’t. Some little associa-
tional thing made painting seem of extraordinary
importance to him. So Rembrandt still influences
us and his contemporaries are forgotten.
The Rembrandts and the Platos are the great
above-par men we call geniuses. Hitler is possibly a
great below-par man ; an extraordinary ordinary man.
Certainly no reasoning citizen of the world can believe
some of the things he believes—such as his ridiculous
racial theory or his notion that the Jews are the cause
of all our troubles. But he is like the great above-
par men in one thing— : he believes in what he believes
completely and all the time, and is ready to sacrifice
everything for.it. He conveys his belief to his fellow-
Germans, and they believe in him. Consequently he
influences people in a way that amazes university
professors.
The Rembrandts and Platos continue to influence
people because their beliefs have great survival-value.
Hitler .won’t be an influence at all in fifty years, or
possibly in ten years, because his beliefs have no
universal application and have only a temporary
survival-value, even for the German nation. But that
does not alter the fact that he does influence people,
and that without the aid of policemen.
The theories that Hitler is a maniac, a hyper-
thyroid or that he takes his marching orders from a
committee of astrologers lead to some quaint errors
such as that he is a megalomaniac. Far from being a
megalomaniac, he is probably the most modest man m
Germany. He is not trying to make a hit, but he
succeeds in making one because he is more interested
in what he believes than in himself. Since the democ-
racies have to deal with him they need to know what
he is like. They don’t get any help in that direction
from the scientist at Oxford.
Australians Last.
With the surplus cash which is the most conclu-
sive evidence that Australian listeners are being in-
excusably bled by the license-fee charge, A.B.C. found
itself with two musical celebrities on its hands. Not
Peter Dawson and Marjorie Lawrence, mere Austra-
lians, but two gentlemen from Central Europe. There
was no doubt about their being celebrities. A.B.C.
was able to say so in its free advertising over the
national stations, which advertising the public pays
for, in cash and boredom both. It was also able to
advertise its offerings in newspapers, the public still
footing the bill.
Then A.B.C. made its appeal to the popular
fancy for bargain rates. It put on its two celebrities
together. And after its double-barrel Szell and
Schnabel Town Hall bargains, Sydney stayed away
from Miss Lawrence. The attendance at the Australian
girl’s Saturday-night concert at Sydney Town Hall
during A.B.C. Bargain Week was given out as 600.
She was due to sing at the Town Hall on
the Monday night. All through the preceding week
—A.B.C. Bargain Week —A.B.C. had been advertising
at full blast that another of its imports was to take up
its running at the Town Hall on the Tuesday night.
Miss Lawrence cancelled her Monday night concert.
Another night had been booked for her —Thurs-
day. There would have had to be a change in the Aus-
tralian nature if that night also had been a washout.
Widespread sympathy had been aroused ; if thei 3 is
one thing the Australian nature can’t stand it is the
idea of anyone being given an unfair spin.
However, the great success of her Thursday night
concert was not a result of A.B.C. lessening the freeze..
That was intensified. A.B.C. had its imported M.
Dupre on Tuesday night, Friday night and Saturday
night. To complete the freeze, it had a symphony
orchestra concert on the Wednesday night.
It will be a sorry day for concert entertainment
in Australia when A.B.C. methods have driven all
rivals from the field, and its monopolistic grip is com-
plete. Then will happen what always happens with
monopolies—a falling off in standard ; Australia get-
ting just what A.B.C. thinks it should have, or thinks
its public wants, and no more.
At the present successful rate of A.B.C. freeze-
out methods, that day is not so far distant. Every
time he pays his license fee of £1 Is. every Australian
listener contributes at least 6s. in excess towards that
consummation.
Kingsley Fairbridge's Monument.
Few men who have died young have left so fine a
monument as Kingsley Fairbridge. A South African
Rhodes scholar inspired by the memory of Rhodes, he
dreamed his dream at Oxford, and saw it come true.
Fairbridge’s idea was a farm school in a white
man’s country where children from British slums and
tenements almost as ghastly might be taught the art of
living on the land. His choice fell on Australia, and
he took the responsibility of initial organisation on
his own shoulders. He and his wife sailed from
London in 1912, and founded the first farm school near
Pinjarra, a pleasant place in South Westralia. Follow-
ing them came 33 children. On the farm, of 160 acres,
were one horse, one cow, two pigs, 70 fowls and a
four-roomed cottage with a scrap-iron kitchen. For
staff Fairbridge had one man and two boys ; he was
himself superintendent and teacher.
Then the war came. Fairbridge tried to enlist,
but his constitution was already undermined by
malaria. Funds were low; cei'ain local politicians
were hostile; but he carried on* He died ; but his
work went on.
To-day there is a Fairbridge farm with a dairy
herd of 127, 1100 sheep, an irrigation system, an
orchard, a tree-planting scheme and a poultry farm
which averages 380 eggs a day. In the farm school there
are 130 girls and 230 boys. The demand from em-
ployers for youngsters from the school far exceeds
the supply; it is round 1200 applications per annum.
Fairbridge scholars —past and present —now represent
one in 400 of the Westralian population.
There are other Fairbridge farm schools ; one at
Molong (N.S.W.), another near Bacchus Marsh (Vic.),
a third in British Columbia. Youngsters, taken between
six years and 12 years, remain wards of the society
that manages the schools until they are 21.
There is an association of Old Fairbridgeans to keep
an eye on their affairs when they go out into the
world. They were recruited originally from centres
such as the Tyneside, South Wales and depressed
areas in Scotland.
All the schools are now worked profitably. There
are assets of over £303,000, and the organisation will
be a large beneficiary from estates in process of
realisation. Annual income is over £40,000.. There
have been few failures and—-what is important— most
of the youngsters, boys and girls, stay on the land.
The Fairbridge plan should be extended to Aus-
tralian cities. There are thousands of city-bred
youngsters with poor prospects in our huge wens who,
trained in farm schools of the Fairbridge type, would
make good as farmers.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“ Wasn't it the brisket you recommended, Chief?"
“El V.”: Every time I look at Sydney
“D.T.’s” growing column of advertising
for “personal and friends sought” it
makes my heart bleed for the loneliness
there seems to be in this hard world.
And it doesn’t seem to affect the poor
the lonely ones seem to have everything
there is. In one recent issue alone there
were a “large property owner, etc.,
own car,” seeking a “cheerful lady” ; a
country gent., 25, property, wanting a
“sincere young lady” ; “a petite lady, 32,
prosperous business,” hunting for a re-
fined gent.; an “attractive young widow
with her own sheep station” looking for
another refined gent., and a country gent,
with means who wants to meet “small,
slim girl, must be young, bright and
modern, snap appreciated, no agents.”
But the best catch seems to be a “wealthy
gent., home, car, speedboat,” who
doesn’t yet apparently know a refined
lady. I wish I were a refined lady.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: A Good Films League
has asked Customs Minister Lawson to
allow its members to preview films so that
they can guide Protestants and the public
generally as to what films they should
see. The very use of the word “good”
in its title gives the league away, If it
called itself the What We Think Good
League it would show more humility. But
it obviously thinks that what is good to
it is good, and if Mr. Lawson gives the
precious committee facilities denied to
ordinary citizens for airing its prejudices
in public he will prove himself an ass in
the first degree. Not that such unofficial
censorship is likely to affect the flicker
interests. As every showman knows, an
adverse report from professional moral-
ists is a darned good advertisement for
any show.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Quill, a Sydney pressman,
lives at Gordon, eight miles from the city
on the North Shore line. When after a
festive day he tried to get home by train
he woke up at Hornsby, the line’s ter-
minal station. Hurriedly he boarded a
train about to start in the reverse direc-
tion, and in his next fit of wakefulness
found he was at Sydney Central station.
He felt the need for some fortification
and had it, and then restarted his efforts.
His determined effort to keep awake
petered out at Chatswood, when another
ten minutes’ wakefulness might have
saved him ; how he got back to Wyn-
yard remains a mystery. Setting out
determinedly once more he was shocked
to find himself at Lindfield, on the way
back to the city. Next, Quill found himself
at North Sydney, and, realising that the
time must be past midnight, he became
desperate. Staggering sleepily out of the
train and the station, he sighted a taxi
and fell into it with a quick “Backshders-
road, Gordon,” to the driver. This time
the morning sun shining into the taxi dis-
turbed his slumbers. A driver newly
arrived on the job was wanting to know
where he wished to go. Quill had over-
looked the fact that the parked taxi he
had entered had no driver to receive his
instructions.
* * * *
“Henry”: My friend Jobson was ex-
patiating on the merits of his new 12-
valve Universe-Ranger wireless set.
Among its many unusual features, he
mentioned that all the 12-valve bases
were standardised —all six-pin, not some
three, some five, some four. “Awkward,”
said I, “if you took the valves out and
didn’t mark their positions. You and have
a job getting them back in the right
order.” “Oh, I don’t think so,” asserted
Jobson breezily. “There’s only 12 of
them after all, and there can’t be many
possible arrangements.” When I told
him that there were a good many pos-
sible arrangements (479,001,600 to be
precise) and that if he could change one
valve a second it would take him over
53 years, working eight hours a day,
six days a week, to work through the
series, he decided to label those valves
according to their base numbers.
“Mac Hoots”: I wish someone would
tell these celebrities who allow them-
selves to be exploited by advertisers that
they’re rapidly making existence impos-
sible for me. Asa protest, gallant if
futile, against the vulgarisation of a fine
effort, I gave up drinking somebody’s
tea and reading my favorite flapper mag.
when Jean Batten boomed them after
her last flight from England ; Tauber and
Tibbett, leering at me from every hoard-
ing, forced me to give up cigarettes;
and now Marjorie Lawrence —driven to
a commercial station, I suppose, by the
stubbornness of the A.B.C. —has neces-
sitated sanctions on chocolate. If any
notability dares to come out here and
burble about beer this camel’s back will
break.
* * * *
“Dick Tafone”: An interesting de-
parture from ordinary official routine
has been instituted at Canberra. Two
Vic. League football teams arrived to
give the Molongloside village its first
look at their game as played by experts.
It was on a weekday, but, sports to a
clerk, the departments attended in full
strength. Even the 1800 manual
workers of the Dept, of the Interior got
time off on full pay, conditionally upon
the attachment of their entrance tickets
to their next time-sheets to show that
they had not spent the half-day in some
less uplifting fashion, such as planting
vegetables or minding the baby for the
missus. Precedent being the very soul of
clerkly routine, half-holidays on full pay
may now be expected to become the
rule whenever any interesting show can
be attracted to that chilly clime. Cost
to the taxpayer can be worked out from
official data by any nark who cares to
take the trouble, but it won’t worry
Canberra.
* * * *
“Astron”: The near approach of Mars
to the earth recently has‘revived interest
in inter-space navigation. An interplane-
tary society is already in being in Britain
which is working out the shortest and
cheapest routes to Venus, Mars and
the moon. The main difficulty is cost,
but anyone prepared to spend £20,000,000
(it is reckoned) could even now go to
the moon in a 40,000-ton four-step
rocket, shedding each segment as the
fuel (liquid oxygen combined with petrol)
was used. For the trip to Venus and
back, however, a 21,000,000-ton seven-
step rocket ship would be necessary; as
the gravity on Venus is as strong as on
the earth, the difficulty would be taking
off against such a pull. The cost of the
Venus rocket ship would be £700,000,000,
so I don’t suppose they’ll do anything
about it in England until the war-clouds
disperse.
“Ente Marid”: Next month marks an-
other centenary —that of the bicycle.
Like steam engines, the telephone, haggis,
the dudelsack and other great inventions,
it came out of Scotland, where it was
invented by Kirkpatrick Macmillan, a
blacksmith of Dumfries, a shire in
which, fortunately, they do not wear the
kilt. There are now 61,000,000 bikes in
the world, which seems about 60,999,999
too many; but, curiously enough, Scot-
land is the country in which they are
seen least, which may be due to the facts
that they cost money and cannot leap
from glen to glen. I suppose Denmark
and Holland are the biggest supporters
of the bicycle trade. It is nothing to see
40,000 hardy Hollanders going to work
awheel, and in Copenhagen even the
King rides a bike. The last time I visited
Elsinore there was a family there of
nine, all on one bike, which had nearly
as many wheels as a centipede has legs.
* * * *
“Ploto”: I ordered some loads of buck-
shot gravel from a neighbor who shovels
gravel all day for a construction com-
pany. He delivered the loads on succes-
sive days at 7 p.m. in lots of four cubic
yards. I asked him where his mate was
on the second day, and he said that he
had dropped him at his home because
he had to go to technical school. Then
I asked if he wasn’t tired himself, doing
this extra work after he had been at it
all day. “Just a bit,” he replied. “But
then I was dancing until 3 a.m.” That
knocked me back a bit, but I went on
with the inquisition. “Well, you will be
ready for bed no\y?” He stopped shovel-
ling for a moment. “Bed! I have to be
at the drill hall until ten o’clock with the
P. 8.1., and then I am going on to an-
other dance.” His age is 41. It set me
pondering on these “casual Australians.”
* * * *
“F.S.” is for abolition:
The resignation of W. B. Mclnnes has
thrown the job of painting-master at the Vic-
torian National Gallery into the melting-pot,
and art circles are agog about it. Numerous
stodgy suggestions have been made with regard
to a successor, but orthodoxy has been alarmed
by the announcement that there is a rift
amongst the trustees, some of whom want an
Australian painter of the modernist persuasion
appointed, and others another importation from
England. What harm could accrue if a
modernist were appointed? At least he would
be a change from the stodge which has been the
hallmark of the institution ever since it was
established. He would liven up things by
introducing the note of controversy, and art
has never progressed unless there was somebody
to ask questions, even if they were the wrong
kind of questions. But my idea is that the
National Gallery school, for all its prestige and
its cost to the public, should be abolished. To
close it down would mean putting a hundred
or so students into circulation looking for
new teachers; but there are plenty of studios
and teachers in Melbourne, so the students
wouldn’t be worse off and they might be ad-
vantaged. Moreover, the school is in a shock-
ing state of disrepair, and its dilapidated archi-
tecture ruins the appearance of the gallery
facade, recently revealed to the public by the
removal of the fence.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Blackburn, outside Mel-
bourne, was the scene the other day of
what may have been an inverted version
of suttee. A man of 62 was missed from
his home. His charred body was subse-
quently found on a smoking pyre of gum-
leaves 300 yards away. Post-mortem
examination revealed that the man must
have been alive while on the fire; there
were no marks of violence, nor evidence
of poison having been taken; and the
position of the body did not suggest that
the victim had accidentally collapsed on
to the fire. There was no motive for
making a fire unless for self-immolation,
but if the case was one of suicide it was
probably the most agonising method that
could have been devised and an indi-
vidual would have to be a stoic to carry
it through. A remarkable feature was
that at least two neighbors were aroused
by the blaze but, as soon as they saw
there was no danger of the fire spread-
ing, went indoors without observing the
tragedy that was going on behind the
smoke barrage.
* * •-? *
“X.S.”: At Royal Park, Melbourne,
the other day, thieves adopted a method
of breaking open a safe hitherto unex-
ploited in Victoria. Having dislodged the
safe from the wall in the booking office ot
the railway station, they apparently found
it too solid for them, so they placed it on
the line some time in the early morning.
The first train to Melbourne knocked it
sideways, burst it open and scattered
coin in all directions. But the thieves
hadn’t time to profit by their inventive-
ness before railwaymen arrived with
lanterns.
s*. * ' *
“S.”: Franco has struck one blow for
civilisation of which even his enemies
should approve. Children born during
the war are not to be saddled with
“political” names, so there won’t be any
equivalents of Aboukir Brown and
Armistice MacGregor. One may be sac
that all the little “Pasionarias” are to be
struck from the register as exotic anc
extravagant,” but for the children’s sake
no one could regret the cancellation ol
“Unification,” “Harmony” and the
rather ambiguous “War Flower.”
SPOONER ON BEARDS.
“The modern man is handsomer than his bearded
predecessors, but he makes a lesser appeal to the
ladies, who held those beards in great admiration.”
i— Mr. Spooner.
When men were bearded like the paid,
They weren't as handsome, truth to tell,
As nowadays—that would be hard,
If not indeed impossible.
But women found a charm therein
That’s lacking in a shaven skin.
Gone is the trim Imperial,
The neat Vandyke is seen no more,
hi fact, of all the facial
Upholstery our grand-dads wore,
There's precious little left to show,
Save here and there a skimpy mo.
For whiskers one may look in vain,
The “weepers” and the “mutton-chops''
That gallants of Victoria’s reign
Found such invaluable props,
Bringing the necessary lure
To many an affaire d’amour.
When men were bearded like the goat
(Or Oswald Pryor’s Cousin Jack),
At least you hadn't got to note
Such tiresome sameness in the pack;
Variety, there’s no denial,
Was furnished to the human dial.
When men were bearded like the pard,
Did bushiness inspire somehow
A warmer feminine regard
Than smoothness can engender now?
So Spooner tells us anyway—
Though how he knows he doesn't say.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


e
"Say, Spike, d’you remember how they fix these things ?”
“Oh, thank you, pilot —I HAD switched the iron off after all !”
Henry Highup comes on board asking
for me just bring him down, too.” Sir
Henry arrived a few moments later, and
a bewildered steward escorted him below
muttering “Cripes, you never can tell.”
* * * * #
“Betul”: It isn’t safe to show pique on
the stage. George Robey, now in Aus-
tralia, has a deep hatred for late-comers,
and on one occasion paused in the middle
of a turn and gravely addressed himself
to a man who was just making his way
to a seat. Said George: “Had I known
you were coming I would not have started
until you were seated.” The reply was
disconcerting. “Had I known you were
on, George, I wouldn’t have come at all.”
* * * *
“D.F.”: The island that was scratched
off the globe in the Adelaide Public
Library (B. 2/8/’39) was Emerald
Island. The record of its discovery is
very precise. At 11 a.m. on December
13, 1821, the lookout on the ship
Atlantic reported sighting at a distance
of 25 miles very high land, running up
to a peaked mountain. As the ship
sailed on the land appeared as 30 miles
long, running from north-west to south-
east. Charles Wilkes, the U.S. explorer,
fixed Emerald Island as a rendezvous
for the vessels of his squadron in
January, 1841. But they could not find
it. Some maps still show to the south
of Tasmania Royal Company Island,
said to have been sighted by a Spanish
vessel from Manila in 1772. Many navi-
gators, from Captain Beveridge, sealing
out of Sydney in 1820, to J. K. Davis
(now Commonwealth Director of Navi-
gation) in 1913, have hunted for it in
vain. In 1932 a Commonwealth seafeh
expedition was suggested. The project
was vetoed for the Geographical Society
of N.S.W. by Captain Bayldon, who went
into the evidence and reported that it
would be a waste of time.
* * * #
“Ex-Mister”: The fast cargo-ship is
beginning to worry regular passenger lines.
Most middle-aged and elderly travellers
don’t want spacious swimming pools,
dancing floors, orchestras and decks
crowded with noisy game-players. A
comfortable, roomy cabin, good plain
food and service, quiet and speedy travel
(by new routes if possible) are what they
really desire, and they get them all on
cargo vessels at a much lower rate than
any liner can offer. What with lounges,
bars, dance-halls and the rest, an average
liner passenger requires ten tons space, of
100 cubic feet each, and that has to be
paid for in dues, whether occupied or not,
year in and year out. Vessels carrying
not more than 12 passengers are exempt
from heavy Suez charges and other
special dues, depreciation costs are less,
and they do not suffer from the seasonal
rush which jams 70 p.c. of the England-
to-Australia passenger traffic between
September and January.
* * * *
“C.R. ’ : Anybody who looked in at
Melb. Town Hall the other afternoon
would have seen Marcel Dupre, the
French organist, performing to a smaller
audience even than Marjorie Lawrence’s
in Sydney. It consisted of one solitary
Melbourne solicitor, and it was not a
rehearsal—it was an actual request per-
formance. The Gent. One has a passion
for the organ, and when in Paris used
habitually to visit Saint Sulpice, the
beautiful old church of which Dupre is
organist, to listen to the famous man.
Meeting him again in Melbourne he
happened to mention that there was a
particular Bach toccata and fugue he
especially liked and would like to hear
Dupre perform. Unable to fit it into his
programme, Dupre offered to play it at
a special session for the enthusiast alone.
* * * *
“Oran”: A quiet morning in aMa State
township. Youth of about 14 carrying kit
runs into small store and asks for a tin
of cigarettes. Puts tin in kit, produces
change from pocket, pauses and says,
“Gosh! I haven’t got enough money.
You keep the cigs., mister, till I go along
and get some more money from Dad.
The tin’s for him and he’s just along at
the corner.” Goes off and does not come
back. Tin is replaced on shelf. The
bootmaker from next door comes in an
hour later for a tin of cigarettes, and
decides to have one or* the spot, Gets
lid off and finds tin full of dead wooden
matches. Inquiries elicit that the youth
who last handled the tin was seen leaving
town with woman in ancient car. Store-
keeper decides “Dad” was Mum, who,
from the excellent make-up of the faked
tin, should have no difficulty in securing
free smokes.
* * * *
“Runa”: Maoriland, always versatile
in the matter of climate, has put up some
records this year that will take a lot of
beating. Dunedin, in the south, began
with a snowfall that disorganised traffic,
stopped supplies of fuel, meat, bread and
milk to householders, closed schools,
kept hundreds away from work, and in-
duced citizens to use skis in the main
streets. Christchurch, farther north, fol-
lowed with tremendous snowfalls and
great loss of stock in the Canterbury
sheep country, but when Wellington
joined in with a circle of snowy hills and
a frozen sea near by, with seabirds'walk-
ing about on the ice, the wonder grew,
Then New Plymouth, the Dominion’s
most westerly town in the North Island,
just below the always snow-capped Mt.
Egmont, had snow for the first time in
history, and Auckland, much higher up,
followed suit. But the big surprise came
when what M.L. likes to call the “'sub-
tropical North” advised snowfalls even
to Cape Maria van Diemen, the lone cape
in the farthest top-corner that Abel
Tasman named. After that anything
may happen.
* * *
“Clio”: It was at a Sydney tram-
stop. Three women were waiting, a
dowdy little creature in a green coat, a
tall, handsome woman in an opulent-
looking fur cape, and a plainly-dressed
girl of about twenty. A tall young man
in a shabby overcoat, with a hat well
pulled down over his eyes, came slouch-
ing along. As he passed he deftly seized
the expensive bag carried by the fur-
coated woman, dashed to a car waiting
on the other side of the road, and was
off almost before the waiting trio re-
covered. There was an indignant out-
burst from the two witnesses of the theft.
“Oh, never mind,” said the victim, recov-
ering. “It was a good purse once, but
I’ve had it six years. And there’s no
money in it; I’m just on my way to the
bank.” “Well, I’m glad he didn’t snatch
my bag,” said the dowdy little woman ;
“we’ve just sold our cottage, and I’ve got
the deposit, seventy-five pounds in notes,
in here.” “Yes,” chimed in the girl, “and
I’ve got nearly twenty pounds in mine.
I’m going to the bank with it,”
THE EVE OF PROHIBITION.
ŵ
ẁ
IFORD.


e
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
m
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
M A DE SPECIALLY
POLITICAL POINTS
“Seven years of savage political bluff,
dictatorship and misgovemment were
avenged when the leader, Mr. J. T. Lang,
led the Labor party across the floor of
the Legislative Assembly to end the in-
glorious political career of ex-Premier
B. S. B. Stevens.” That’s how Lang put it
in his “Century.” R-r-r-revenge is sweet,
and all the sweeter for being so long de-
layed. The instrument of retributive
justice is rising 62.
But Lang’s revenge was incomplete.
When Spooner’s censure motion was car-
ried by 43 to 41 (it would have been lost
had Stevens been able to muster five
absent Ministerialists), both Spooner and
Lang expected to be invited to Govern-
ment House. Neither was, though a pre-
posterous petition asking the Governor
to send for Spooner was deposited with
the Governor’s secretary by young Rob-
son and the Kogarah Ross. Having been
advised by Stevens that Mair had been
named leader of the largest party in the
House and should be given a commission,
Lord Wakehurst very properly gave him
one, and Mair formed a Ministry—the
same as before, except that it is without
Stevens, who stood down from everything
except his seat, and the globetrotting Fitz-
Simons. “Fascism!” Lang roared, “and
the recall of the Governor must be a
major issue at the election” that nobody
wants.
The fall of Stevens was a stunning
shock to “S. M. Herald,” which has
always supported him, and a sore em-
barrassment as well to the “D.T.” In
the process of “giving Australia leader-
ship” the “D.T.” decided last year that,
even as an M.L.A., Spooner Must Go.
The day after Spooner’s censure
motion was carried, Sydney “D.T.”
pronounced Eric “a sound admini-
strator” with a “keen financial
brain.” Sixteen months ago he was “a
dangerous man who treats public opinion
with contempt; obstinate in defeat and
querulous under criticism, ineffectual”
and “destined soon” to see the end of
a “period in politics unduly prolonged.”
And all because the dangerous man had
tried to make the “D.T.’s” flapper readers
wear a bit more on their thighs and bris-
kets when parading the beaches.
Mair, who was Stevens’s Treasurer
and has succeeded him as Premier,
says Spooner spent £1,400,000 in his elec-
torate of Ryde. To anyone who has
gone about that rather run-to-seed dis-
trict and marvelled at the evidence of
reckless squandering in an alleged
national park on the outskirts, this would
seem a queer underestimate. In any case,
it amounts to nearly £7 per head of Ryde
voters. Yes, Spooner poses as a finan-
cial reformer.
One of Stevens’s ways of raising the
wind was to borrow from the Superannu-
ation Board at 4 p.c., the board selling
Commonwealth securities to accommo-
date him. Colonel Beardsmore, who was
chief accountant in the Lands Depart-
ment in Lang’s time, is a member of the
Superannuation Board, and Clarrie
Martin (Heffron Labor) seized the oppor-
tunity to make a bitter attack on him,
saying “he refused to obey orders of the
[Lang] Government,” and “tried to assist
a revolution in this country.” What
Beardsmore really did was to order his
subordinates to pay money into the Com-
monwealth Bank in strict observance of
the law that Lang was defying. Lang
sacked him for it, but his action led to
Governor Game writing to Lang that “it
is impossible for me to put the Crown
in the position of being a party to an
illegal action.”
The great Clarrie Martin forgot him-
self when he attacked Beardsmore, “late
of the A.1.F.” Other people remembered
that Martin and Heffron, both now so
bold, were among Lang’s most obse-
quious supporters when Lang was
Wrbng.
The cool head and sage counsel of
James Ashton would have been invalu-
able to the U.A.P. when it was passing
through the crisis which has left it shaken.
It found him on his deathbed, too far
gone to be told that Stevens had abdi-
cated and Mair—like himself a Vic-
torian who settled in the Riverina—was
Premier. Ashton was M.L.A. for 10
years (1894-1904), M.L.C. for 27 (1907-
34) and Minister for nearly five (1904-09).
THE ORDHAN OF THE STORM
a. few months ago he wrote to The
Bulletin expressing, in the pithy English
0 f which he was a master, his apprecia-
don 0 f j ts attitude to foreign affairs,
Coming from an old newspaperman
wbose style was admired by all N.S.W.
newspapermen, that tribute is treasured,
, rm
To the indignation of the en
ist army, the British Parliament has ad-
journed for two months. Before going
on his holidays Chamberlain said some
of the things done by Japanese had made
his “blood boil.” Millions of people feel
like that without being philosophical
enough to “recognise,” as the old P.M.
does, that “behind these outrageous things
there may be some genuine suspicion on
tbe part 0 f Japanese in China of our
treatment of them.” “The outrageous
tb ings” began when the Japanese saw
their old a ]] y ma king overtures to their
deadly enemy, and flamed up again, with
political accompaniments, when the
m ffj ta ry mission to Moscow was decided
upon
' x „
Menzies never liked the standing-army
plan of General Squires, who never saw
Australians fight, and whose military life
has been spent for the most part in India,
and last week the P.M. had it dished.
Unfortunately “Cabinet also decided
against the introduction of universal mili-
tary training at present,” and “will take
steps to intensify voluntary militia train-
ing instead.” Anything short of national
military training and service, such as the
SWiss and the Afrikanders accept with
pride, is a substitute or an intrigue.
C. H. A. Eager, the Victorian Leg.
Council’s unofficial leader, spoke approv-
ingly of the Dunstan Government’s,
Pawnbrokers Act Amendment. Under
the old measure, a constable could search
Uncle’s pledge book for evidence of
stolen property without warrant; under
the new one, only a police sergeant or
one of higher rank will have this right.
The bill was passed in quick time. Eager
thinks it will help to arrest the tendency
of Governments to go Fascist.
Westralian State members earn their
money easily. They are back at “work”
again after resting for eight months, less
a week or so. Sitting for three days a
week, they expect to be kept going till
December. Sittings begin at 4.30 p.m.,
and, with an hour and a quarter for
dinner, Councillors are generally home
by 10 p.m. and Assemblymen by 10.30.
For these exhausting exertions all hands
are paid £6OO p.a., with a lot more for
Ministers and officers and free passes
over all the Government railways of the
Commonwealth and Maoriland.
“O to be in Maoriland now that
Labor’s in!” Income tax is up again, the
“basic” rate having been increased to 2s.
in the £, rising to 7s. lid. on companies
and Bs. sd. on individuals. Petrol tax,
previously lOd. a gallon, soars to Is. 2d.,
and 6d. a gallon has been added to the
beer duty, making it Is. 9d. Labor bless-
ings have to be paid for, even by those
who enjoy them.
Hobart Assembly’s debate on the vote
of £250 a year to Premier Ogilvie’s
widow makes queer reading. Dwyer-
Grey was understood to say that he
would be sorry for any businessman who
gave £lOOO for the equity in his prede-
cessor’s estate. This being questioned,
he explained that £2OOO was the figure
he had mentioned. Baker protested that
Mrs. Ogilvie had a separate estate which
would provide her with “a substantial
income.” In the other shop, Lillico de-
clared that probate would have to be
paid on “£9OOO net,” though a lot de-
pended on the value placed on Ogilvie s
interest in the Bridge Co., in which he
contracted to buy 5000 £1 shares, paid
to ss. In the Assembly the matter was
decided by a party vote. In the Council
old cricketers Charlie Eady and Joe Dar-
ling did what they’ve seldom been known
to do —voted with Labor.
A few days in the legislative life of
young Mr. Robson (U.A.P., Vaucluse):
“That man [Spooner] told me and other
members of the U.A.P. that the Budget
was faked.” ,
“I immediately went to see the Premier
[Stevens], and gave him the sum and sub-
stance of my interview with Mr. Spooner.
“Labor principles and politics to me are
complete anathema, and I would never
support a motion of censure moved by the
leader or a member of the Labor party.
“To keep quiet for the moment and take
the blows is the brave thing to do, and
that is what the member for Ryde
[Spooner] did this afternoon. I admire him
for his courage.” „ L .
Mr. Robson and Mr. Spooner voted
with the Premier against Mr. Lang’s cen-
sure motion. .
Mr. Spooner: “Mr. Man, the Treasurer,
does not know his own department.”
Mr. Robson: “He Wouldn’t know the
time if he looked at it.”
Mr. Robson votes for Mr. Spooner s
censure motion —with the Labor party.
Mr. Robson presents a petition to the
Governor asking him to make Mr. Spooner
Premier.
Mr. Robson was to have been Minister
of Justice in the Spooner Government
that is not to be.
“S. M. Herald’s” very “Own Corre-
spondent” goes into the Englishman s
home:
The chances of war and not the problem
of where to spend the holidays is the domi-
nating question in the majority of house-
holds The public believes that the
chances are even. Tiny sections....
assert that the chances favor war by as
much as three to one.
A “Special Representative” of Asso-
ciated Press, same day:
Most Britons are not worrying about
the international situation, but pleasantly
anticipate the August sunshine. The general
cheerfulness has been increased by the
record circulation of money.
Perhaps the optimist backed the winner
of the 3.30 and the pessimist did his
money.
It pays to be a Dismal Jeremiah these
times, "provided you’re a professor.
Roberts, who writes so copiously for
Granny “Herald” and other papers, is
reported to be getting £1 a minute from
A.B.C. for his dull variations on the
theme that Hitler and Musso must fight
because they’re broke. The insolvent
Sydney Government employs him, too,
besides contributing £lOO,OOO or so p.a.
to the University where he hangs out.
In 1937-38 it paid him £l5O, “honorarium
in connection with economic investiga-
tions” (he is a professor of modern his-
tory), and a similar “honorarium” was
placed on the Estimates for the year that
closed with a deficit of £2,750,000,
£2,800,000, £2,804,000, £3,750,000 or
£4,350,000—-those estimates differ, though
the “honorarium” didn’t.
The Condobolin-Broken Hill railway,
which was built to steal trade from South
Australia, cost £2,279,200, and loses any-
thing from £lOO,OOO a year upwards.
It is reckoned in the department that
wonders have been performed when earn-
ings equal working expenses, leaving in-
terest to be met by the taxpayer. Since
the western fettlers went on strike a
month or so ago, S.A. has got back
nearly all the trade which was “diverted”
from it, and Adelaide’s grins are expan-
sive. And separating Adelaide from what
it has regained will be no easy matter.


CHOICE OF WEAPONS.
“Unsportsmanlike tactics in duelling were not so uncommon as romantic novelists pretend.”


O. S. K.
DE LUXE
To AFRICA and SOUTH AMERICA
By FAST, NEW MOTOR SHIPS.
Ultra Modern
M.S. “ARGENTINA MARU”
and “BRASIL MARU.”
Designed for Tropical Travel. Appoint-
ments include De Luxe Suites, Indoor and
Outdoor Swimming Pools, Ballroom, etc.
Regular monthly sailings from Kobe via
Hongkong, Singapore, Colombo, Durban,
Capetown to South America.
Other New Motor Ships to East and West
African and South American ports.
For particulars apply:
Managing Agents in Australasia,
BIRT & COMPANY (PTY.), LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
HAMPTON COURT
KING’S C R O S S, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
• Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
m
HI
BEE
EBE
r*
i®
EBti
EElfci
PE
EEE
;
m
J 3.
Ft
trr
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
• The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates: Single Room
with private bath
from 10/6 per
night. Suites from
£l/1/- per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARLINGHURST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
I neorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
. £1,250,000
. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund .. • • • • ; •
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Farewell to a strong man:
James Ashton, dead in Sydney at 75,
did not look as if he had come up from the
ranks—he looked as if he had been bom in
prosperous pastoral luxury. Actually, he began
work as a half-crown-a-week office boy, and
worked himself to the Bar, thence to the point
at which he could buy the prosperous Nar-
randera “Argus” and make it a power in the
Riverina, as well as the Riverina “Gazette,” in
which he already was a partner. He became
State member for Hay in the ’nineties, biff re-
fused the portfolio which George Reid offered
him. In 1904 he took a portfolio from Car-
ruthers as Lands Minister. He held the job
for three years, and was once Deputy-Premier.
N.S.W. owes much of its saner land legislation
to him. He left the Ministry in 1909, the
year in which Will Dyson drew the caricature
on this page. During the war he gave most
of his time to the Red Cross, and sat as chair-
man of a Federal Taxation Inquiry in 1920.
He remained in politics till 1934 v as an M.L.C.
He was chairman of the Commercial of Syd-
ney, and on the board of several other com-
panies. Ashton had a constant interest in land
matters and, in later years, in the north. The
last time The Bulletin saw him he paused to
remark that its policy on N.T. settlement was
“an island of sanity” in chaos; and he was a
great admirer of the late S. H. Prior, whose
financial journalism, in particular, he approved.
A fine figure of a man, he was in the Sheffield
JAMES ASHTON, as Will Dyson
saw him in 1909.
class as a runner in his youth, and he was
probably the only man in history to be the
father of a complete polo team. Geoff, Phil,
Robert and James Ashton are one of the world's
least vulnerable combinations with stick and
pony.
A familiar figure will be missed from
Melbourne, now that James Alexander
Smith has been taken to hospital. Born
in Collins-place, he has lived in its vicin-
ity throughout a life of unusual activity.
He was one; of the pioneers of the Vic-
torian railways, and. was Speight's curly-
headed boy in the days of Victoria's most-
discussed Railway Commissioner. His
forebears, an uncle and his father, were
railway engineers likewise, and were asso-
ciated in the construction of the State's
first engine. Smith, who is now 77, was
responsible for the layout of the Newport
workshops and the yards at Spencer-
street and.Flinders-street, and was one of
the adjudicators in the Canberra com-
petition. He fought for the Burley
Griffen plan against departmental oppo-
sition, and has ever since been confiden-
tial adviser to the Federal and State Gov-
ernments in matters of engineering. He
tutored many a youth who is now a dis-
tinguished engineer, and the fact that his
name is scarcely known to the present
generation is largely because his schemes
have always been far ahead of day-to-day
political manoeuvring. His most notable
recent achievement is his plan for roof-
ing over the Jolimont yards, to provide
80 acres of fresh territory almost in the
middle of the city.
Ex-Judge Alfred Paxton Backhouse,
dead at 88, looked every inch a Judge.
Tall, genial, full of interest in everything
round him even in extreme old age,
he had become a sort of legal monument
in N. S. Wales. He was one of the oldest
living graduates and Senators of Sydney
University, having taken his arts degree
in ’72. He had been at the Bar only two
years when he was appointed a Crown
Prosecutor 61 years ago, and he sat on
the District Court Bench for 37 years,
retiring in 1921. He was prominent in
charity organisation and in aquatic sport,
and for over half a century no Sydney
Anniversary Regatta was complete with-
out him.
When this issue went to press, M. J.
Savage, Maoriland’s Prime Minister, lay
critically ill after an operation for an
internal complaint, but he was making
good progress. He is one of the best-
loved men in politics in Maoriland, and
he stood to his job till the last moment,
delaying the operation to present his
Budget. He is putting up a great fight,
and though at 67 a major operation is a
severe strain on the constitution of any
man, it is still hoped by all sides that he
will be able to remain in politics.
Dead in Melbourne, Captain A. W. Cull,
who used to be known as the “Hotspur
of the 23rd.” He had finished his Dun-
troon course at 19 when war broke out,
and was acting as an instructor at Broad-
meadows. As the staff thought him too
young to command, he resigned his com-
mission and enlisted as a private in the
2Jrd, but in Egypt he was immediately
commissioned. General Brand wrote of
him later that he “won the M.C. over and
over again, but his luck was always out.”
Eventually he was captured at Butte de
Warlincourt, spent a year in Germany,
and returned an invalid with every part
of him apparently injured but his heart,
which was as strong as ever. For a time
he was on the Repat. Commission, and
latterly had edited the Shepparton “Ad-
vertiser” till ill-health drove him out of
the job. He was only 44 when he col-
lapsed as he rose to propose a toast to
his 80-year-old mother at a family
gathering.
The Rajah of Sandur, who arrived in
Sydney last week on a short holiday trip,
is the fountainhead of all authority in
the 167 square miles of his State, which
adjoins Mysore, in Southern India. The
State was conquered in the early
eighteenth century by an ancestor of the
present ruler, who draws a revenue of
lj lakhs of rupees from his 13,000 sub-
jects. The Rajah is not entitled to a salute
of guns, but he has several front names
—Shrimant Yeshwantrao Hindurao
Ghorpade Mamlakatmadar Senapathi.
He is 31, and has been ruling Sandur
since 1930.
The Westralian University has lost its
Vice-Chancellor, Hubert Edwin Whit-
feld. Sydney-born and -educated (Syd-
ney Grammar and Uni.), Whitfeld was
a mining engineer on the goldfields for
ten years, 1902-12. He was named
Professor of Mining and Engineering at
Perth when the University was housed
in a jarrah building, and, with “Wee
Ahlec” Ross, Walter Murdoch, Shann
(who died young), Dakin and other first-
class men, he gave it a great start. Lent
to the British Government for munitions
work in 1916-19, he returned to become
Professor Emeritus and Vice-Chancellor
again. He was 64 at the end.
John McCracken, who succeeds J. D.
Story as Queensland’s Public Service
Commissioner —in acting capacity only
until the Forgan Smith policy is decided
—is a Scot of 43 with 27 years of experi-
ence in State public service administra-
tion. Appointed to the old public service
office in 1912, he became assistant secre-
tary to the Commissioner 12 years later,
public service inspector in
1930, senior inspector in
1935, and Deputy Commis-
sioner and secretary in 1936.
He is a qualified account-
ant, possesses experience in
industrial matters, and has
visited practically every
corner of the State in which
public servants are located
in the course of his duties.
Banker Thomas Buck-
land, G.O.M. of the ’Wales,
turned 91 on August 1. He
is still active enough, not
only to attend to his many
interests, but to go cruising
(he has been revisiting
North Queensland, the
home of his youth), golfing
and motoring—he drives
his own car. Coming down
from the Blue Mountains
the car broke down, and
word carried by a passing
motorist brought a young
man out from the nearest
garage. The youth repaired
the damage, which was
trifling. “What’s the charge?”
asked the veteran, who
these last few years has
spent at least £150,000 in
good works. “Aw, two
bob,” said the young man
benevolently. He explained
afterwards that it was “reely
worth a dollar, but the old
bloke didn’t look as if he could pay any
more than a coupla deeners.”
lan Westbrook, who has started out
from Brisbane to go round Australia on
horseback in emulation of Tschiffley’s
2\ years’ ride from Buenos Ayres to
Washington, used to do conjuring tricks
at Sydney Church of England Grammar
School fetes. Later he became a pro-
fessional conjuror and escapologist. He
expects to do the 10,000 miles in 31-
years. The distance is much the same
as that of Tschiffley's ride.
William Gordon Young, N.S.W.’s
Director of Physical Culture, first saw
the light in Ontario, Canada, 35 years
ago. Was educated at Springfield Col-
lege, Massachusetts, earning a science
W. G. YOUNG.
degree, and studied physical-training
methods there and in England and
France. He was for a while physical in-
structor of the Montreal Y.M.C.A. In
preparation for his present position he
toured the U.S.A. and Canada to get in
touch with latest physical-culture develop-
ments. Is keen on flying, and holds a
commercial pilot’s license, and also uses a
lot of 16mm. film in his cinema camera.
Maurice McCarten, here modelled by
Frith, headed the Sydney winning jockeys
list this year. He’d twice topped the list
early in his career in his native Main-
land, where, 20 years back, he had
a retainer from George Price, who
this year headed Sydney’s winning
trainers’ list. He also had his
first Sydney ride for the P r * ce
stable at Randwick when he dumped his
kit for keeps hereabouts 22 years ago-
It wasn’t a winner; but he brought oft
a treble for Fred Jones at his next rneet-
MAURICE McCARTEN.
(Modelled by Frith.)
ing (Canterbury); and, of course, the
Price-McCarten combination has had
plenty of success since then. Born at
Hawera (M.L.) 36 years ago, Maurice
has been getting legged up since he was
14; and it’s a high tribute to his fine
horsemanship that he has long been
recognised as a pastmaster on two-year-
olds. While there are always plenty of
floggers and roughriders, he stands out
as a stylish rider—one who can hold a
sprawling youngster together or get the
last ounce out of a game horse in a
finish. He has not yet piloted a Mel-
bourne Cup winner, but he has won six
Derbies (two in M.L.), two Epsoms, two
Doncasters, Sydney Cup, Metrop. and
most of the main w.f.a. races.
“Have a glass of Howie’s milk or a
glass of champagne; they both cost the
same” is a saying amongst the friends
of Archibald Howie, former Lord
Mayor of Sydney. But Australia’s
butter output would be multiplied by
two and a half if all dairy cows gave
as much butter as Howie’s prize Jerseys
on his Grose River farm, which took 25
awards for 23 entries at the last Sydney
Royal Show. They turn out 4101 b. a
year each, while the average for N.S.W.
is 1601 b. The farm was granted in
Hunter’s time, 140 years ago, to Mrs.
Pitt, a sister-in-law. of Prime Minister
Pitt, and stayed in the family for 120
years. When knight. Archibald bought
it he had the place gazetted as a bird
sanctuary. One of his oldest friends is
a one-legged magpie.
T. J. Richards, dead in Adelaide at
89, was a coachbuilder who had the fore-
sight to turn early to motor-body build-
ing, and the co. that he built up (man-
aged by his sons for the past 20 years)
has always given General Motors-
Holden’s a good run.


m
Are you sure
it's White Horse?”
Of course ! I could
tell it blindfold.
msSSSSSessssmsM B
§€ /*«r;
4^. "If gjj
fi
m,
it* ••
! |MI B
I u
There’s no mistaking its distinct-
ive fragrance, its smoothness and
mellowness. This whisky is like a fine liqueur. Of
" , ; ■ ' ‘ ' \ . y v ' '
course it’s White Horse, I recognised it at once.”
Screw-cap
flasks of
convenient
sizes on sale
everywhere
WHITE HORSE
WHISKY
The millions of gallons of finest Scotch whisky
matured and maturing ensure that the quality of White Horse never varies
R8948M.


ABORIGINALITIES
“He has to give a show at Guvverment House to-night. How about sprucing him up a bit?
“Dungeness”: Even a brief first-
acquaintance with the outback Queens-
land abo. has convinced the young wife
of a cattleman friend that there is no-
thing backward about them when it
comes to tactful extrication from an em-
barrassing situation. Lucy, her capable
housemaid, has three small boys, the two
younger as sooty as herself and Peter,
her husband. Sammy, the eldest, is an
obvious half-caste. One day, as Sammy
departed after presenting a bunch of
flowers with a charming grin, feminine
curiosity impelled her to inquire what
had become of an apparent first husband.
“No more ’usban’, missie,” smiled Lucy,
looking her frankly in the eyes. “Peter
only ’usban’ b’long me all time. Jimmy
an’ Paddy them bin born night time,
Sammy ’im bin born daytime.”
* * * *
“Jimbalunga”: The hot-water method
of discouraging reptiles, as advocated by
one of the Council recently, is certainly
effective, but keep out of Joe’s way im-
mediately following the application. Our
chap—a 6ft. brown —called when we
were marooned in a hut, and the only
things within reach were the tea-billy
and an empty rifle. I let him have the
boiling contents of the billy, and if ever
I saw a streak of raging fury it was
then! Joe reared, plunged, pigrooted
and tore round, cannoning into the
walls several times, each time endeavor-
ing to take hold of the slabs. Remain-
ing stock-still for a few seconds, this
Skuthorpe-Malcolm Campbell combina-
tion made a record spurt across the hut,
where he encountered the stock of the
rifle, to which he fastened, stiffening his
whole body to enforce the grip. There
he remained for about a minute, and
then, slowly releasing his hold, he turned
a complete back ’un. It was then that two
courageous females ceased screaming
and slowly crept down from the bush
table.
e * * *
“Cam Cove”: At Lake Tyers abo.
station (Vic.) every man, full-blood or
mixed, can play tunes on thd leaf, and
their proficiency is good enough for
public concerts. As far as my knowledge
goes, Black Brother has not been able
to teach any white pfeller the mystery of
sounding a note. You may imitate every
detail of the instructions given, and yet,
except for the noise of your own breath,
you will never disturb the natural dumb-
ness of the leaf. Abos. and half-castes
can play tunes on any leaf at all, pro-
vided it is green, and apparently a leaf
has a useful life equal to that of an ordi-
nary mouth-organ. Frequent use, the
warmth and moisture of the breath keeps
the leaf in good fettle, so that an abo.
possessed of a particular favorite will
hold on to it.
* * * *
“Atrax”: The Colin Mackenzie sanctu-
ary at Healesville (Vic.) claims to have
acquired the grandfather of all goannas.
Caught in the Mt. Monda district, he was
wheelbarrowed home by a man holding
his tail and secured with an “enormous
chain” until he could be transported to
the sanctuary. A 6ft. go. may surprise
the simple Victorian soul as quite a fear-
some beast, but it would scarcely be more
than a decent feed for some N.Q. patri-
archs of the race. Varanus giganteus of
those parts is recorded by Lucas and Le
Souef up to 7ft. from museum specimens,
but there is sound bush testimony con-
cerning specimens measuring 10ft. or
more shot in the great rain jungles of
the Far North. And V.g. is even more
gluttonously enterprising than its slimmer
and smaller cousins from further south.
* * * *
“Arev”: Barney came slowly along
the road to where the farmer was
ploughing. “Good-day, boss,” said
Barney. “Any chance of a job?”
“What can you do?” asked the farmer.
“Anythin’, boss, except ploughin’.” The
cocky pondered. “I’ve a stack of wood
I want chopped. You can put your
swag in that shed and doss there while
you’re here. I’m knocking off now for
tea, so you can come along.” Barney
ate so heartily that he was ready for a
sleep as soon as he had finished eating.
Next morning he wakened to tragic
thoughts of the hard work in store.
After putting away an outsize in break-
fasts he said to Mrs. Cocky: “I’ll soon
have that wood cut, missus. I like the
open-air jobs'. When I left the hospital
after me typhoid the doctor told me ter
keep in the open, on account of me bein’
a carrier. Y’ see, mum, the quack said
that though I was cured myself I’d al-
ways- have the tendency to pass on the
germs to others.” As Barney went
slowly towards the wood-heap, he saw
that the missus was hurrying towards
the spot where her husband was feed-
ing the horses. A moment later the
farmer came to Barney. “I’ve decided
to have that wood sawn,” he said.
“You needn’t bother with it. Here’s
five bob fer your trouble, and you can
go up to the house and get your bags
filled.” “Thank you kindly,” said
Barney, and grinned behind his whiskers.
*** . *
“Marsh”: It beats me why Binghi’s
“half-caste yarraman” the mule isn’t used
more than it has been in this country.
Given a fair go during breaking-in, mules
are as tractable as any horse. The
Queensland Government is engaged in
breeding “loppies” with a view to supple-
menting horse-shortage of the future in
the sugarcane areas of the north.
Giuseppe and co. have long since real-
ised that tractors and fuel are too expen-
sive for their work. The mule, able to
keep in nick on less than half the feed
required by any farm horse, proved its
worth 1 during the Sinai-Palestine cam-
paign: teams of them got through when
heavy horses drawing loads similar to the
mules couldn’t. And they were not too
dusty as saddle-hacks. I’d rather tackle
a long dry stage with a mule than with
most of the mongrel horses stations breed
these days ; the only fault I found was
the need to keep spurs and a persuader
going most of the time. A mule becomes
more or less immune to both.
* * * *
“Son Downer”: What’s all this argu-
ment about getting a fire going when
there’s a drop of wet falling? No need
for petrol or kauri gum either when
there’s a hollow tree around; and where
there have been bushfires there’ll be hol-
low trees. You’ll soon strike one with its
hollow facing away from wind and rain,
and in that dry leaves, twigs, bark,
blown there by the summer breezes. But
don’t carry this lightable stuff out to the
open and think to get it going there.
Start your fire right in your hollow tree
—there you have it sheltered from wind
and rain. The hollow will burn readily ;
toss in any loose wood you can find, a
good solid log, stood on end for prefer-
ence, and you have a fire for the night.
And no trouble to boil the billy for
breakfast.
* * * *
“Biceps”: I’d love to meet that wood-
cutter (B. 12/7/’39) who always wears
dazzlingly white trotter cases so that he
can keep an eye on his feet. I’ve swung
axes and hammers, more cautiously
handled an adze, belted a drill which
a mate deftly turned, used a hammer
and cold chisel on iron, and through all
these performances I have striven to be
as unaware as possible of feet, and even
hands. On one awful occasion, whilst
using an adze, my eyes strayed to my
left foot —next moment the adze was
half-way through it. In swinging any
of the tools named, one becomes auto-
matic in action, and it is practically im-
possible to miss—unless! Thus, in using
a hammer and cold chisel, fix the eye on
the cutting end and the hammer wilt
automatically find the end to be strucK.
But give a thought to the hand holding
the chisel —and the hammer will follow
the thought. The same when flogging
a drill —give a thought to your mate s
hands, or even his head, and a casualty
will inevitably follow. That’s why I am
certain that if I wore white shoes when
swinging an axe it wouldn’t be long be-
fore I put the blade through just one of
those white-shod feet.
* H: * *
Fish”: The dog that the
Spaniards found in the Solomons m
1568 was apparently a dingo. Mendana s
men noted that it did not bark but
howled. The dogs which the first
Europeans found in Tahiti and Maori-
land seem to have been smaller beasts
and presumably not related to the dingo.
From the fact that the Maoris called a
dog pero (Spanish perro) it has been
concluded that they got the name from
some Spanish navigators of whose visit
no record remains. It is more likely to
be a coincidence. Yet the double coinci-
dence of calling a pig poaka (Spanish
puerco) seems almost too good to be
true. Unless, of course, poaka really
comes from the English porker.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: “Opalite’s” par. (B.
12/7 / ’39) bespeaks the practical man,
but different localities, different
methods. Shaft-sinking on W.A. deep-
leads our ambition was to hoist dirt,
not men. Therefore we used a 6in. or
over windlass barrel, and mostly a hemp
rope. With medium loads, even less than
1001 b., this gave quick haulage and a
quick descent of the empty bucket. Thus
we “bottomed” with celerity, a matter of
some importance when a storekeeper s
account hovered spectre-like over the
works. A hemp hauling-rope likewise
eliminated “Opalite’s’’ hemp rope dang-
ling down one corner of the shaft by
using the hauling-rope any active man
could walk up or down our narrow
shafts. The size of the windlass barrel
was governed largely by expediency.
Six-inch salmon gum grew wild, beauti-
fully round and practically parallel along
any six feet of its length. Four-inch ones
were also available, but we wouldn t
have used them, anyway, for fear of
splitting when the square tang of the
handle was driven in. I’ve known even
a 6in. barrel to split and drop the entire
works on to the bloke below.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: If “Mandurah” (B.
26/7/’39) spends some time on the
Murray and its tributaries he’ll revise his
views on the rapacity of shags, both the
black and the pied kind. I’ve seen a
drove of the former light on a billabong,
drive the small fish cut off in it into a
corner and then gorge until they found
it hard to get off the water. Knocked a
pied shag over for bait one day —it had
a cod exactly 31b. 2oz. inside, and was
far from full. And old Murray net
fishermen who’ve had their cages raided
will give “M.” all sorts of profane assur-
ance as to whether the black varmints
could get away with 71b. of fish a day
or not.
* * * *
“Ugar”: In hunting the dugong the
Torres Strait islander uses a heavy 12ft.
shaft made from a special variety of
timber, nicely shaped and balanced and
decorated with cassowary feathers. In
the heavier end of this “wap” is inserted
a many-barbed harpoon, nowadays
f&shioned from old three-cornered files,
but formerly also of wood, called a
“kuiur.” The whole outfit is very effec-
tive. Native tradition is that many years
ago a couple of Frenchmen came ashore
at Badu (Mulgrave) Island from a wreck.
Contrary to usual custom they were not
killed, but lived with the islanders, travel-
ling the Strait with them in their big
canoes and assisting in the foraging ex-
peditions upon ships cast away in those
parts. It was from them that the native
learnt how to make the “kuiur” harpoon,
according to legend.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: This is how Jimmy Susu
warns his Torres Strait friends to exer-
cise discretion when they come to church.
It is customary to see a row of pipes or
the half-smoked portions of home-made
cigarettes parked in the palm-leaf with
which the building is covered, hence the
native churchwarden’s tactful reminder:
“Coconut Island Church. Caution. Who-
ever persons come to the service with
smoking pipe and cigar, you should be
carefullness from the fire that blew from
you smoking, and don’t put you pipe and
cigar on the side of the church with the
fire within when you go inside. The
order of the Churchwarden.”
SEMI-SURREALIST SYMPHONY.
The bone is pointed, and the myall falls;
His head rolls sideways on the earthen floor.
A mongrel howls and droops a mangy tail,
Then sniffs an empty meat-tin by the door.
A pungent odor lingers on the air
And rum is mingled with a lubra’s tears.
Black billycans and pots are overturned,
The golden-syrup tin drops heavy spheres,
And small black ants in long battalions swarm
Like thirsty sheep beside a running creek;
The boldest one explores the myall’s ear,
But, backing out, it nips him on the cheek.
Ants, ants (black ants, I mean, not aunts!).
The lubra clasps the bottle eagerly
And liquidly she gurgles as she sips,
Then swigs, ah! ah! the nectar of those dregs.
She softly sighs and smacks her sagging lips——
Spears or boomerangs or a stone axe, bah!
A rusty petrol-tin, a broken dish,
Worn-out tennis shoes ■ and gaudy rags
Lie with the head and gullet of a fish,
And busy flies in many millions buzz
As in and out and round about they go,
And myriads of blowflies droning seek
In vain for meat of any kind to blow.
Flies, flies (for time’s not all that flies!)
Now comes a lonely shepherd from afar;
Full many miles he came by hill and dale,
His red-rimmed eyelids and his palsied hand
And years of beef and damper tell their tale.
No more he hero-worships Deadwood Dick —
The sirens of the fillums took his place.
His lagging pulse throbs with a rhythmic beat
While gazing on each flattened shadow-face.
Yet he has joy and succor in his hand,
A grimy bottle squat and square and black;
Home-brewed, it was, and bottled scarce a week
At some crude pub or shanty by the track.
The myall shouts aloud in ecstasy
Seeing him fill a battered pannikin,
But, clenching hard and fast a palsied fist,
The shepherd swings and socks him on the
chin.
Socks, socks (not wool or cotton socks!).
N.S.W.
J. W. G.


“Old-timer”: “The Blazin’ Stump,”
recovering from a jag at the Gol Gol
pub, was in that mood that needs a
little blood-letting to get rid of the ac-
cumulated evil of alcohol fumes, no
food and too much tobacco. He ranged
round the tiny settlement, looking for
someone to pick, but was having no
luck until he spotted a couple of
boundary-riders from Mallee Cliffs who
were yarning. They eyed him warily as
he approached. “You coves arguin’
■ erbout me!” he demanded belligerently.
“By cripes, I’ll” “Keep y’ shirt on,”
said one amicably; “we never men-
tioned y’ name.” “The Stump’s” red
hair subsided disappointedly. “Aw,
well,” he said, disgustedly turning away.
Suddenly he whirled and came at them,
unholy joy on his dial. “So,” he roared,
“y’ flamin’ stuck-up-never-come-down-
agains! Y’ don’t think I’m worth
talkin’ about, don’t y’!” Thus did ap-
peasement fail, even in those days.
**. . # *
“Bufo”: Three years ago Bill Jones
excavated a dam in his lower paddock,
180 miles from the S.Q. coast, two miles
from the nearest creek and 1300 ft. above
sea level. A year later his boys caught
the first eel in it, and stewed eel has since
figured often on the Jones menu. Bill
reckons that the dam suits ’em for breed-
ing. He listened with a derisive grin to
my statement that they had all come
from the depths of the Pacific Ocean,
hundreds of miles from Australia, and
that they must retrace the same amazing
journey to breed. There the females will
lay their eggs, the little “glass eels” will
hatch out, grow into “elvers,” make for
the distant shore, pass up tidal creeks to
fresh streams and tributaries; the more
adventurous, like Bill’s tenants, will
swarm up the wet sides of waterfalls,
cross a mountain range and do a couple
of final miles across dew-damped grass
at night. All plain, observed scientific
fact. But—how did they find Bill’s new
dam?
“Darken”: Joe and Ted are coke-
carters for the gasworks. “Where
d’you want these thirteen bags, lady?”
asked Joe at a suburban home. “Under
(he house,” she said. “My husband would
have the grounds disfigured.” Joe
baulked. The house was a bare 30in.
off the ground. “Blime, a man’d have
t’ be a cross between a goanna and a
billygoat to butt his
way under there,”
he said. “Sh-h,”
said Ted. “We’ll try
one, anyway. Drag
it in after you.” Joe
grumbled all the
way. “Of all the
stupid places to
store fuel I —cripes!
what’s this?” Half-
way in, standing on
a box, were two
bottles of lager,
complete with
opener. Beyond was
an array of liquid
refreshment that
made their eyes
goggle. “The sly old
cow!” said Joe,
wiping the froth
from his mouth.
“Wants it awkward
so he’s the only one
who’ll fill the scuttle
Fancy trickin’ his
strife like that!”
“Cooramin”: A farmer friend sold some
sheep to a selector and lent him a dog
to help with the droving on the under-
standing that the buyer was to give the
animal a feed at the journey’s end and
tell it to go home. The selector took
a fancy to the dog and, wishing it to
stay with him, tied it up so that it would
get used to the place, but Rover sulked
and refused to eat. Eventually it was
released, but instead of going straight
back it rounded up all the sheep, took
them across an unfenced creek that
formed part of the selection boundary
and drove the lot home again. The
chagrined selector had to track and re-
cover the flock unaided.
* * * *
“Wang”: Dad, leaning across the bar
of Ryan’s pub with a half-emptied pot
in front of him, felt himself clapped
heartily on the back, and heard a husky
voice saying, “Well, well, if it ain’t me
ole cobber Jim Dobbs!” He half-turned
to see a red-faced, whiskered party bur-
dened with a swag looking avidly at the
pot on the counter. Hastily emptying it,
Dad turned his attention to the back-
slapper. “Who the devil are you?” he
asked angrily. “I’m Sam Splitts,” replied
the other, and continued, with what might
have been either real or assumed dis-
appointment in his voice: “I’m sorry,
boss, I thought yer wus me ole friend
Jim Dobbs ; y’ look just like him from the
back.” Dad grinned, and with a wink at
Ryan on the stranger’s blind side said,
with affected heartiness, “Well, ain’t that
whatcher might call coincerdence! On’y
a coupla days ago I wus in here, an’ a
bloke came in an’ clapped me on the
back thinkin’ I wus you. Sed his name
“Make this the last!"
“But l cant clean it off, Sergeant. Forgot me india-rubber .”
wus Jim Dobbs. But he had bad luck ;
the John here’s a terror on strangers, an’
run him in on the vag. He’s” . But
the other had vanished through the door-
way. “Cripes!” said Ryan, “yer shifted
him all right. But yer a champeen liar,
Greybox—y’ know we ain’t got any John
here.” “No,” said Dad, grinning, “an’
we never had any Jim Dobbs, either. But
it wasn’t mention of the John what sent
that bloke orf so quick. It was his perfes-
sional pride as a beer bot wus sorta
humbled. He’d found he’d met a bigger
liar than he is.”
- * - . - H= * *
“Golden Mile”: It isn’t always the
pore working man that suffers the wicked
duplicity of the capitalist. Forty years
ago most of the diorite-punching on the
W.A. mines Was let, as now, by contract.
Measuring-up day was an event. Quite
often the managah was an import with
an old-school-tie accent. To mark the
end of each fortnight’s footage a small
hole would be hand-drilled into the foot-
wall. This then served as a starting-
mark for the next fortnight’s measuring-
up. But, alack! I’ve known down-
trodden workers to carry a handful of
cement below, mix it with stone-dust and
use it to plug up the mark hole, then
wickedly drill a false mark-hole several
feet farther back. And as each foot was
worth considerable pounds sterling this
represented what the “boys” called a
fairly decent win. But worse was the
gang sinking a shaft from the surface
under the supervision of a Johnny man-
agah not game to go down on the kibble.
His method of measuring was to drop
the tape from the surface. This was all
right until the bottom at 100 ft. faded
into darkness. After that the blokes
below simply pulled the tape a few extra
feet. It was a surprised managing direc-
tor, arrived one day from ’Ome, who
found, instead of a 500 ft. shaft, one of
a mere 250 ft.
* * * *
“First Blue”: The new school-
teacher, an ardent trout angler, was fly-
fishing in the creek when Fiddleback
Joe passed by. Joe eyed his antics
curiously for a while; then, snapping
shut his pocket-knife and scratching at
his bewiskered chin, he strolled over and
proffered a word of friendly advice.
“ ’Tain’t nunna my business, mate,” he
drawled, “but if yer tryin’ ter catch fish
there yer wastin’ yer time. That there
crick useter be wunna the best trout
streams in the State, but there ain’t bin
a fish in it since the big ’ailstorm a
coupla years back. You talk about ’ail
—big as cricket balls they were, an’ the
noise they made ’ittin’ the water was
like ’undreds of glass winders bein’
broke. Well, yer know what stickybeaks
trout is. Soon as they ’ears the com-
motion on top uv the water they sticks
their heads out to have a squint what’s
goin’ on an’ they all gits knocked
rotten.”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: “Myzomela” (B.
26/7/’39) has a way with him, all right.
Any other bush naturalist who poked a
torch into a tree at night would scare the
birds off wildly to the outer darkness.
Besides, one application of the torch
would only reveal how the birds sleep at
that season of the year. To gain reliable
information we should have to make
many prying expeditions. For instance,
mosquitoes, heat and cold often deter-
mine the sleeping attitude. Birds know
by instinct that they must protect their
eyes from stings, so on summer nights,
they burrow under the feathers until the
head is covered and the beak exposed ;
if they were to breathe on their own
bodies they would be too hot. On cold
nights they tuck their feet in and bury
their noses so that the expelled warm
air will heat their bodies. Domestic
fowls haven’t the intelligence of bush
birds. In the winter they sleep with their
heads under the wings—this is central
heating—but on hot nights they perch
with heads uncovered and provide
the mosquitoes with poultry for supper.
Canaries and many cross-breeds have no
art of self-protection, and they have to
be pampered with warmth in the winter
and mosquito-nets in the summer.
THE BELLS.
Once long, long ago
When I, a buoyant boy,
Blithely giving tongue
To a song of joy,
Light of foot swung
Over trackless ways—
All the earth seemed young,
Young and very young.
One was I with all
That around me smiled.
One with Youth that dwells
In the Ageless Wild:
Charmed by Nature’s spells
There, as lone I strode,
(n my blood pealed bells,
Bells, sweet-sounding bells.
Not from belfries grey
Over churchyards old
Did their music chime;
But, with promise bold
And with hope sublime,
From my veins they pealed
A challenge unto Time.
Time, defeatless Time.
Now that of my youth
And the dreams it sought
Age has taken hold —
Turning all to naught,
Greying green and gold.
Silencing those bells —
All the earth seems old,
Old . . . and very old.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


w
The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
( Incorporated, in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived: —
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman.); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.: James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET.)
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life,
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
! .; ' m "
YOUR SAVINGS
MAY BE SMALL,. .
But even with approx, £2O you
can have a stake to-day in
Australian industry . . .
Custodian Trustees Union
Insurance Society of Canton Ltd.
A Free Booklet is yours on
request to the Managers of
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
I TELEPHONE: B 5294
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1928.. 355,019 15 p.c. =185,937 30,000 1,690,486
Premiums on new shares, £250,212.. 1,940,698
1929.. 391,624 15 p.c. =223,438 30,000 1,994,190
Premiums on new shares, £237,149.. 2,231,339
1930.. 389,841 15 p.c. =260,937 20,000 2,255,549
Premiums on new shares, £76,600.. 2,332,149
1931.. 308,450 11} p.c.=220,569 20,000 2,315,336
1932.. 199,670 5 ~ ~100,000 10,000 2,320,312
1933.. 213,634 5 ~,, 100,000 20,000 2,329,252
1934.. 209,154 5 ~ ~100,000 20,000 2,333,712
1935.. 228,458 5.8„ „ 116,667 20,000 2,340,809
1936.. 234,481 5.8„ „ 116,667 25,000 2,348,929
1937.. 247,435 6.6„ „ 133,333 25,000 2,353,337
1938.. 262,384 7.1.. ~ 141,667 30,000 2,359.360
1939.. 262,910 7.1„ ~141,667 30,000 2,365,909
* Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84.694) each year.
There has been a steady drift in the
market for bank scrip over the last couple
of years. Excluding the two Maoriland
banks, the average return from the nine
trading banks in Australia was 3.2 p.c.
for June, 1937, a shade over 4 p.c. for
June, 1938, and a shade over 4.6 p.c.
for June, 1939.
Owing to the solid nature of the Aus-
tralian banking system and the part it
played in cushioning the shock of the de-
pression, the market for some years took
the view that these institutions were mak-
ing substantial additions -to inner
reserves in order to repair damage done
to these shock-absorbers during the
slump. But profits, which have been
slow to respond to the improvement in
conditions generally, are still only about
two-thirds of what they were in 1929.
Also, prices for wool and wheat are low,
the tendency of trade generally is to
mark time, stinging increases in taxation
are in prospect, international develop-
ments continue to cast their shadows
upon trade activity the world over, and
prospective Federal legislation concern-
ing deposits with the central bank, etc.,
is in the background. So the local share-
market has revised its estimate of bank
scrip on the assumption that, apart from
reasonable provision for contingencies,
bank earnings are, for the most part,
now fully disclosed.
The C.B.A.’s £4,117,350 of capital is
in 211,735 £lO prefs. and 4,000,000 10s.
ords. The prefs. are entitled to 4 p.c.
cumulative to 3 p.c.—a reminder of the
’nineties —they participate in all new
share-issues, carry one vote per share,
enjoy priority as to capital, and, in the
event of a wind-up, participate in any
surplus assets on a share-for-share basis
after the ords. have received £6 per
share. The prefs. at £8 14s. 6d.
return 4.6 p.c. on a 4 p.c. div. basis.
They are secured over three times as to
capital and dividend. The ords. at
15s. 3d. yield 4.6 p.c. on a 7.1 p.c. div.
basis. They are covered by 21s. lOd.
in net tangibles. The market obviously
considers the co. isn’t earning a reason-
able return on its total funds.
The co. gathers about 92 p.c. of its
deposits throughout the Commonwealth
and the other 8 p.c. in Maoriland ; it is
strongest in Victoria, where about half
its total business is done. During the 12
months to June 30, Australian exports
including gold) were
£14,262,000 lighter, owing mainly to the
fall in wheat and wool prices, and im-
ports (£102,232,000) were got back
£11,743,000, making the shrinkage in the
volume of total trade (£213,808,000)
£26,005,000, which meant lighter earn-
ings in the exchange market. But local
trade continued to expand till about the
last quarter of the year, and whatever
the co. missed on the swings it picked
up on the roundabouts, gross earnings
being £41,787 better at £1,095,327.
Salaries, etc. (£675,366), took £40,843 of
the increase, and rents, etc. (£157,051),
were up £4lB, thus reducing the net gain
to £526. The £262,910 of profit claimed
was enough to pay the prefs. their 4 p.c.
and show 8.9 p.c. on ord. capital as
against 8.8, 8.1, 7.4, 7.1, 6.2, 6.4, 5.7,
11.4 and 16.9 p.c. back to 1930. On
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) the year’s profit was only a
shade over 4 p.c., so the pref. money is
little more than earning its keep.
The div., which had been steady at
15 p.c. for the decade to the close of
accounts in 1930, remained at 7.1 p.c.
It needs to be remembered, however, that
of the £3,808,682 subscribed by share-
holders since 1920 only one half was
called capital, the other half being share
premiums, which explains most of the
visible reserves and makes divs. worth
no more than half the declared rhte on
all but £95,659 of the ord. capital.
A growth of £1,035,455 in interest-
bearing deposits was accompanied by an
expansion of £621,223 in advances,
£182,828 in liquids, £64,180 in premises,
and a contraction of £90,814 in current
accounts and of £92,098 in bills payable,
etc.: —
Liabilities.
1936. 1938. 1939.
Notes .. .. £14,981 £6.188 £6,18G
Bills, etc. . . 1,306,628 1,602.530 1,510,432
Free deposits.. 11,583,116 13,390,860 13,300,046
Fixed deposits 14,280,550 16,662,014 17,697,469
Assets.
Liquid assets.. 10,370,658 -12,374,631 12,557,459
Advances . . 22,211,474 24,684,517 25.305,740
Premises . . 1,178,436 1,196*504 1,260,684
When the books closed the proportion
Of fixed to total deposits was 57.1 p.c. as
against 55.4 p.c. at the previous balance.
Liquids amounted to 38.6 p.c. of liabili-
ties to the public, and advances were
81.6 p.c. of deposits as against 82.1 p.c.
and 75.5 p.c. at the two preceding
balances. The co. was holding a shade
over £5 of the public’s money for every
pound of its own.
Meggitt, Ltd.
, Dividends
Pref.*
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
& £* £ £
1929.. 37,385 4000 U p.c. = 24,552 95,385
1930. . 31,628 4000 6l „ „ 22,506 90,263
1931.. 617 4000 li „ „ 6,138 99,784
1932.. 7,623 3400 2} „ „ 8,184 103,745
1933.. 25,968 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 97,245
1934.. 29,078 3100 5 „ „ 16,368 87,635
1935.. 30,354 3100 5 ~ „ 16,368 76,749
1936.. 43,479 3400 81 „ ~ 27,826 64,496
1937.. 45,020 4000 10 „ ~ 32,737 56,213
1938.. 46,464 4000 10 „ ~ 32,737 46,486
1939.. 45,907 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 37,316
* Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, 1931.
With factories at Sydney, Melbourne and
Port Adelaide, Meggitts is the biggest
manufacturer of linseed cake and oil in
Australia. Moreover, the co. further con-
tributed to the economic development of
the Commonwealth by inducing Michael
Nairn and Co., the Scottish lino, people,
to set up here. The idea was to create a
market for the oil, which had threatened
to hamper development of the business —
a ton of oil resulted from every two tons
of cake produced. It was with the same
idea that arrangements were made with
Blundell, Spence, of Hull (Eng.), to use
that co.’s trade-marks.
Although slump and exchange difficul-
ties —the co. buys most of its chief raw
material (linseed) from India and S.
America—intervened before the new ar-
rangements could become effective, the
co. pulled through without showing a loss
or failing to pay a div. Meanwhile,
attention, which had previously been
concentrated upon pastoral areas, to
the benefit of the growers’ wool,
mutton and beef production, was
turned to the dairying districts, where
the demand for linseed cake, which
increases the supply of milk and en-
riches the butterfats, expanded rapidly.
As prices and exchange settled down,
and conditions improved in the pastoral,
dairying, paint and lino, industries,
Meggitts’ figures advanced, and have con-
tinued to do so, enabling the co. to
reduce its selling prices and lift its div.
to 10 p.c., which is the best rate paid for
the last 18 yeans. From a shareholder’s
point of view the business has never
looked better.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, demand in both the cake
and oil sections of the business con-
tinued to improve. After paying bigger
wages and tax bills, providing £10,848 (up
£743) for depreciation and sending £3OOO
(nothing in the previous term) to the
staff fund, the board wrote net earnings
only £557 short of the previous year’s at
£45,907. That was enough to give the
10 p.c. prefs. their full contract rate —
for five years to the close of accounts
in 1936 they suffered a p.c. cut under
the N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act —and
show 12.8 p.c. on ord. capital as against
13 p.c. and 12.5 p.c. for the two pre-
ceding terms. The div. was kept at 10
p.c., and the £9170 that remained reduced
the amount of capital unrepresented by
tangibles in the books to £37,316 —good-
will (£115,478) is not treated as an asset
herein. That leaves out of the reckon-
ing depreciation reserve, now £64,639.
Here is a bird’s-eye view of the finan-
cial structure:
1931. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital.. £367.369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Liabilities .. 61,113 142,076 109,512 78,022
Premises and
plant . . 162,717 165.744 195.893 215,878
Stocks .. 113,066 140,558 155,726 134,546
Book debts . . 43,178 62,251 50,530 57,300
Cash, etc. . . 17,875 132,626 101,238 ■ 83,356
The year’s reduction of £31,490 in out-
side liabilities and of £21,180 in stocks
is largely connected with linseed ship-
ments. The addition of £19,985 to fixed
assets was mainly on account of extra
plant to enable the co. to further in-
crease its output when necessary. When
the books closed, more or less liquids
exceeded outside liabilities by £197,180
(down £802).
The £367,369 of capital is in 20,000
first and a like number of second 10 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 369,182 ords., of which
313,431 are fully paid and the balance
paid to ss. each. There is nothing to
suggest that the contribs. are likely to
be asked for more at an early date. The
market prices the f.-p. ords. at 305., the
contribs. at Bs., the first prefs. at 325. 6d.
and the seconds at 31s. On an all-round
10 p.c. div. basis the returns at the
prices stated are 6.6, 6.2, 6.1 and 6.4 p.c.
respectively. The net tangible cover per
pound of paid capital is £l6 10s. firsts,
£l5 10s. seconds and 17s. 9d. ords.
Equity Trustees Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 24.224 18 p.c. = 13,500 10,724 71,231
1930.. 17,964 18 „ „ 13,500 4,464 75,695
Share premiums, £15,000 .. •• 90,695
1931.. 12,277 16 p.c. = 14,099 88,873
1932.. 10,072 12 ~ „ 10,800 88,140
1933.. 11,760 12 ~ ~ 10,800 960 89,105
1934.. 14,951 12 ~ ~ 10,800 4,151 93,256
1935.. 11,973 12 ~ ~ 10,800 1,173 94,429
Staff fund, £844 93,585
1936.. 12,875 12 p.c. = 10,800 2,075 95,660
Staff fund, £1339 . . . . ]
1937.. 15,925 12 p.c. = 10,800}- 1,255 90,915
Written off premises, £2531 J
Staff fund, £1499 .. .. 1
1938.. 16,259' 12 p.c. = 10,800 } 1,185 98,100
Written off premises, £2775 J
S'taff fund, £1625 .. . . }
1939.. 15,614 12 p.c. = 10,800 } 919 99,019
Written off premises, £2270 j
There is £90,000 of capital to feed in
180,000 50s. shares paid to 10s.' each ;
the other 40s. is callable only in the
event of liquidation, thus enhancing the
protection for clients. At the end of
June, the capital, reserves and £25,089
(down £6523) of mortgage money—the
co. went outside for assistance to finance
erection of its Bourke-street premises—
were represented by freehold, etc.,
£137,673 (down £2574), public securities
£19,974 (up £4937), debtors’ balances
£63,131 (down £8502) and cash £lOOl
(up £3l).
What the lot turns in is not disclosed
to outsiders, nor is the volume of trusts
on the books. There is, however, a
steadily growing recognition of the ad-
vantages of the corporate over the
private trustee —considering the advan-
tages the recognition ought to be more
general than it is—and complications as-
sociated with the administration of
estates is driving more business into the
expert care of the cos., too.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts, the Equity’s gross earn-
ings fell away £134:
Gross Exes. p.c.
June, Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910 .. £17,131 £11,328 66.1
1920 . . 26,673 14,775 55.3
1930 . . 52,328 34,304 65.6
1931 . . 47,338 35,061 73.6
1932 . . 43,454 ' 33,382 76.9
1933 .. 45,244 33,484 74.0
1934 . . 49,857 34,906 70.0
1935 .. 50,300 38,327 76.1
1936 . . 51,527 38,652 75.4
1937 . . 54,961 39,036 71.0
1938 . . 57,415 41,156 71.6
1939 . . 57,281 41,607 72.7
The growth in exes, was £5ll, leaving
the net result'(down £645) at 17.3 p.c.
on capital as against 18, 17.7, 14.3, 13.3,
16.6 and 13 p.c. back to 1933. That
disregards £1625 sent to the staff fund
and £2270 struck off the book value of
premises. After deducting these two
items enough remained to show 13 p.c.
on capital. The div. was kept steady at
12 p.c., making the average rate of
distribution over the last 30 years 15 p.c.,
sweetened with £50,000 of gift capital.
Over the same period shareholders put
up an extra £30,000 in cash (one half
capital and the other half share


ADAMS' (TATTERSALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites "available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
G
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
e
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
Registered Office: 472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
SIR EDWARD P. MITCHELL, K.C.M.G., K.C., Chairman.
SIR STEPHEN MORELL, K. 8., Vice-chairman.
SIR ALAN CURRIE, K. 8., M.L.C.
E. P HERRING, Esq., ICC. ALLAN SPOWERS. Esq.
REPORT OP THE DIRECTORS:
Por presentation to the Eighty-fourth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on
Thursday, the 10th day of August, 1939.
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Eighty-fourth Report, and to state that the business
continues to progress satisfactorily, and has not been affected by any abnormal events.
Tire accompanying balance sheet shows a net profit for the year of . . . . . . £13,989 3 1
Add amount carried forward from last year . . • • • • .. . • .. • . 18,101 2 11
£26,090 6 0
On behalf of the board,
E. P. MITCHELL, Chairman.
“Companies Act 1988.”
BALANCE SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1939.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-200,000 shares of
£2/10/- each ..£500,000 0 0
Less unissued . . 50,000 0 0
£450,000 0 0
Less uncalled .. £360,000 0 0
Capital paid up in money .. . . £90,000 0 0
Mortgage of Company’s freehold and
accrued interest .. .. .. 25,088 10 10
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 80,000 0 0
Profit and Loss Account .. . . 26,690 6 0
£221,778 16 10
Overdrawn Trust Accounts with
Bankers, secured by the assets of
the respective trusts (see
contra) .. •• •• •• £132,022 2 0
ASSETS.
Guarantee Fund held by the
Treasurer of Victoria, at cost ..
Commonwealth Government £5150
3J per cent. 1954 Stock, at cost..
Commonwealth Government £5OOO
3 per cent. 1944 Stock, at cost ..
Real Estate, Bourke Street property,
at cost, less depreciation
Cash in hand and at bankers
Sundry Debtors for' Commissions,
etc. (after providing for bad and
doubtful debts)
Fixtures, Fittings, Office Furniture,
and Chattels, at cost, less
depreciation ..
£221,778 16 10
Moneys advanced to Trust Estates
for which Assets of the Trusts
are held by the Company (see
contra) .. .. .. ..£132,022 2 0
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1939.
£1,200 0 0
To Directors’ Fees
To Salaries, Auditors’ Fees, Advertis-
' ing, Stationery, Office and other
Expenses
To Rates and Taxes, including
Federal and State Income and
Land Taxes . .
To Mortgage Interest, etc.
To Staff Provident Fund
To Balance, Net Profit for year
carried down ,
35,545 5 3
3,744 17 9
1,177 12 1
1,624 11 1
13,989 3 1
£57,281 9 3
1939 —Ist February.
To Interim Dividend of 6 per cent. £5,400 0 0
1939—30th June.
To Balance .. # . . . . 26,690 6 0
£32,090 6 0
w
The Certificate by Directs and the Auditors’ Report and Certificate, required bv the Consumes Act 1935,
accompany the Official Report and Balance Sheet.
premiums), and when the books closed
reserves were heaped £9019 higher than
paid capital.
At 255. the shares, covered by 21s.
in net tangibles, yield 4.8 p.c. on a 12 p.c.
div. basis. It is a very satisfactory re-
turn from a sound trustee stock.
Allen Taylor and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1928.. 1,843 Nil 1843 50,875
1929.. 3,145 Nil 3145 54,020
1930.. 409 Nil 409 54,429
Loss.
1931.. 29,990 Nil 24,439
1932.. 19,508 Nil 4,931
Deficit.
Assets written down, £72,431 .. 67,500
Reserves.
Capital written off, £75,000 .. 7,500
1933.. 2,324 Nil 5,176
Profit.
1934.. 2,662 3 p.c. = 2,250 412 5,588
1935.. 3,022 3 ~ „ 2,250 772 6,360
1936.. 3,238 4 „ „ 3,000 238 6,598
1937.. 4,720 5 „ „ 3,750 970 7,568
1938.. 4,335 5 „ ~ 3,750 585 8,153
1939.. 4,520 5 „ „ 3,750 770 8,923
The board sums up the year’s opera-
tions in this way:
We have been able to transact a larger
volume of business, although the margin
of profit has been affected by keen com-
petition. We have some good orders in
hand for local trade which will keep us
busy for some time, but the export trade
is not likely to improve until overseas con-
ditions become more settled.
Taylor’s mills are efficient and situated
in good forest areas along the N. S. Wales
north coast, there is nothing uncom-
fortable about the finances, and there
is only half the capital there used to be
to feed. Still, owing to competition from
steel and concrete and from survivors in
the trade, earnings have derived but little
benefit from the marked revival in build-
ing activity of recent years.
Including £5OO dropped into the con-
tingency reserve, last term’s £4520 (up
£185) of profit was 6 p.c. on capital as
against 5.7, 6.2, 4.3, 4 and 3.5 p.c. back
to 1934, when a six-year drought for
shareholders was broken with a 3 p.c.
div., the rate being lifted to 4 p.c. in 1936
and then to 5 p.c. for each of the last
three years. Since activity in the building
trade appears to be at, or near, its peak,
and with costs still on the up-grade, no-
thing better than 5 p.c. need be looked
for —for the present, at any rate.
Here is the position as balance-sheet
figures show it :
1932. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. .. £150,000 £75,000 £75,000
Liabilities . . . . 40,482 49,542 42,555
Country mills, etc. . . 68,0161
City wharves, freeholds, j- 26,950 26,450
mills, plant, etc. . . 13,531 J
Vessels 12,940 11,050 10,550
Hook debts, etc. . . 34,912 38,442 37,243
Stocks 22,321 37,460 34,726
Cash, investments, etc... 43,093 22,543 21,260
On fixed assets, which are reported in
good order and condition, £lOOO more
was written off than was spent. Together
with a reduction of £1199 in debtors’
balances, £2734 in stocks and £1283 in
cash, etc., this enabled £6987 to be
snipped off the outside debt. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£50,674) was £1771.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the f.-p. 10s. shares at 6s. 3d., at which
figure the return is 8 p.c. so long as
the 5 p.c. div. continues. The backing is
11s. 2d. in net tangibles.
Arahura Gold’s dredge has started up,
and, working day shift only, is reported
running “very satisfactorily.” Under the
Sydney Prattens’ control, the co. is a
sister-float of the successful Kanieri Gold
Dredging, its property lying in the Ara-
hura Valley, three to four miles north-
east of the Kanieri leases, on the west
coast of Maoriland’s South Island. Rated
capacity of each venture’s plant is 400,000
c.y. a month —Kanieri’s best monthly
effort to date, however, has been 269,000
c.y.—and there are other points of simi-
larity :
Shares Gold, Av.
Issued. C.y. Proved. C.y. Depth.
Arahura .. 300,000 48.500,000 3.lgr. 81ft.
Kanieri .. 300,000 55,000,000 3.lgr. 73ft.
J. R. Sturkey did the boring in each in-
stance. In the sharemarket Kanieri £1
ords. are priced at 31s. and Arahura’s at
265. 6d. Kanieri, however, has got its
values; Arahura has yet to get its, but
if results go as expected it hopes to net
£85,000 p.a. over 10 years. There is
a substantial yardage of lower-grade
wash which may also prove payable.
Both cos. had to go outside for approx.
£30,000 to complete their construction
programmes.
* * * *
Mt. Morgan (Q.) production for July
was down 15 p.c. on tonnage compared
with recent four-weekly periods. The re-
turns of 50360 z. gold and 254 tons copper
were also the lowest for a long time. Staff
work was rather disrupted by the prevail-
ing influenza epidemic ; consequently less
ore was treated, and this reduction un-
fortunately synchronised with one of the
lowest-grade faces removed for some
time.
* * * *
Grasstree Gold Mine at Sarina (C.Q.),
the power-alcohol centre, is proving one
of the best new developments in Queens-
land. From the main tunnel to a depth
of 75ft. production is approaching the
2000 oz. mark, the average return being
over 30dwt. per ton. A pipe of ore at
the 75ft. level averages 30ft. by 20ft.,
and looks like going down, though values
have dropped to 14dwt. over a battery
run of 190 tons. Sinking has been
stopped. For a local-syndicate show it
has an imposing record, and some of the
heads of southern gold groups have been
tentatively looking that way. ‘Alex. Innes,
big chief of power-alcohol, is a holder.
**, * *
Geophysicists have steadily encour-
aged the view that the Cloncurry district
ought to produce gold as well as copper.
Perhaps because of this a 10-head battery
is under erection at Mount Freda, as
being possibly the best of a mediocre
bunch. The old-time prospector, who
never went to Cloncurry except for
copper, could always get an ounce or
two of gold when copper crashed.
* * * *
L’Aiglon Gold and Tin Syndicate, born
in Melbourne about a year ago, is re-
ported to have come to an agreement
with Burma Malay for formation of a
co. to further develop and work a gold-
bearing area at Batlow (N.S.W.). Details
concerning the property have not yet
been announced, but the new operation
co. is to be registered at Sydney with a
capital of £lOO,OOO, of which L’Aiglon
takes £20,000 in f.-p. shares, together
with the right to subscribe for £15,000
worth, plus a cash consideration of
£ll5O on sealing of the agreement, £lOO
toward legal exes, and £5OOO payable at
the rate of not less than 25 p.c. of each
half-year’s profit. Burma Malay will
take the balance of the contributing capi-
tal, and with it control.
* * 4= *
London-domiciled Gold Exploration
and Finance Co. of Aust., which dropped
something like £290,000 at Bendigo (Vic.)
a year or two back, is improving its
position. Income from divs. and interest
for the year to March 31 lifted from
£24,272 to £71,936 stg. "At March 31,
1938, the co.’s major shareholdings com-
prised :
P.c.
Shares G.E.’s Capi-
Issued. Holding, tal.
Western Mining Corp. .. 649,066 621,366 95.6
G.M. of Kalgoorlie . . 1,220,000 369,400 30.3
Triton Gold Mines . . 960,000 139,720 14.5
Western Gold Mines .. 100,000 31,600 31.6
Victoria Gold Dredging. . 250,000 182,625 73.0
G.M. of Australia . . 417,750 260,500 62.3
Minor interests included Mt. Coolon
(Q.), which has since worked out its prop-
erty, and Morning Star (Vic.), which
should shortly be in production again
after extensive bushfire damage. The


(Enmttmrial Hattkuui (fimtipatty
nf §>yiuu'y ICtmttek
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Board of Deputy chairman.
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman. vtwrs rRF ORWELL PHILLIPS.
OWEN E. FRIEND. SIR WILLIAM VICARS, C.B.E. uuv
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1939.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting
to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George Street, Sydney,
on Friday, 11th August, 1939.
The Directors submit to the Shareholders the Balance on 30th June 1939, with a
copy of the Auditors’ Report thereon. A copy of the Profit and Loss Account
P The profit for the year after payment of all expenses of
management and taxes, and provision for rebate on
current bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits,
and for bad and doubtful debts and other con- £377 454 3 0
tingencies, amounts to •••• ■ ■ • • • • - ‘
To which is added the amount brought forward from 30th 118 475 is 9
June, 1938 1
£495,930 1 9
making a total of
from which the Directors have made the following appro-
priations :
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st
December, 1938, at the rate of 7 per cent. Per
annum paid on 27th January, 1939 £160,86a 8 9
„ Reduction of Bank Premises Account amount 200,865 8 9
written off for depreciation 3o,uuu
£295,064 13 0
leaving a balance of
and now recommend — ....
Payment of a dividend for the half-year ended 30tli „ „
June, 1939, at the rate.of 7^ per-cent, per annum £l|a, 860 8 9 13 0
leaving the amount to be earned forward * .
The Directors desire to express their regret tat the deafh on 10th a tte£
Creswick, who served for many J’earsas a Director of The Ban retirement in 1937 ; and
H. Massie, who w.a
ATnnntrpr of the Bank and who retired in March, 19*-o. «
given the requisite notice that he is a candidate. ..
It rests also with the Meeting to appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration.
The Auditors Messrs Cecil Howe Doyle and Harmgton Burrough Cowper, now retire,
Mr Cowper being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. Notice of intention to nominate
Mr' Francis William Hixson, a former Auditor of the Company, to the office of Auditor has
been Aven by a member to the Company, pursuant to Section 113 of the Companies Act 1936
During the year a branch of the Bank has been established at the University, Sydney, in
the State of New South Wales. JAMES ASHTON,
BALANCE SHEET, 30th JUNE, 1939.
ŵ
ASSETS
£ s. d.
Coin, Bullion, Australian Notes _
and Cash at Bankers a
Money at Short Call 700,000 0 0
Short dated Treasury Bills of
the Commonwealth of Aus-
tra li a 5,800,000 0 0
British and Australian Gov-
ernment Stocks and other
Securities at or below market
value (including £4,000
lodged as security with
Public Authorities) 4,162, 1 88 1- 6
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit ... 2,541,198 18 8
Notes and Bills of other Banks 577,572 12 8
20,895,574 3 3
Bills Discounted and other
Debts due to the Bank-
after provision for ascer-
tained Bad and Doubtful
Debts 42,114,245 10 11
Bank Premises —at cost, less
amounts written off ...... 1,206,620 0 0
£64,216,439 14 2
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman of Directors.
I C. DARVALL, General Manager.
■ TtTUTORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OP THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
AUDuUKs KJirunx x QF SYDNEY LIMITED.
ov . minP( , +v,p above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at the Head
n h* returns Dom fife Branches. We have verified the Bills and counted the
cfsh at the Head Office. We have obtained all the information and explanations we have
Cash at tne nea . . the Balance Sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true
ahd correct view of the stite of the Company’s affairs according to the best of our information
and ?he explanations given to us, and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company Is required
to keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept.
Sydney, 17th July, 1939.
ẁ
ẃ
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
8 9
To Interim Dividend for the
half-year ended 31st Decem-
ber, 1938, at the rate of 7
per cent, per annum, paid
on 27th January, 1939 £160,865
„ Deduction of Bank Premises
Account 30,000 0 0
Balance proposed to be dealt
with as follows: —
To Dividend for
the half-year
ended 30th
June, 1939, at
the rate of 7
per cent, per
annum £165,865 8 9
~ Amount car-
ried forward . 129,199 4 8 2gg
£495,930 1 9
£. R. KXOX.
WILLIAM VICARS.
Directors.
By Amount brought forward
from 30th June, 1938 £118,475 18 9
„ Profit for the year ended
30th June, 1939, after pay-
ment of all expenses of man-
agement (including Directors’
Fees, £3,000) and taxes and.
provision for rebate on cur-
rent bills and accrued in-
terest on fixed deposits, and
for bad and doubtful debts
and other contingencies
377,454 3 0
£495,930 1 9
JAMES ASHTON, Chairman of. Directors.
C. DABVALL, General Manager.
“PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street,' Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and'Co. (Melb.). —Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14. Martin Place, Sydney.—Advt.
* * * *
ALUMINOFERRIC is one of the most effective
preparations known to science for purifying and
clarifying water stored in dams, reservoirs, tanks,
etc. For further particulars, write to William
Adams & Company, Ltd., 175 Clarence Street,
Sydney.—Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phor.e: >11787 (3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
&
m
mv\
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South A'is. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
THE EASY-
SHAVING
RAZOR
■
M
n
For perfect ease and comfort, shave
with a hollow-ground Plum Razor—nmy
guaranteed and kept in order for two years
free of charge. . -12/6
Selected steel, black handle ••••/ 15 /B
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle - 2|/ _
Superfine steel, ivory harnlle
Guard to b&df^
CRAIG & AIT KEN
654 GEORGE STREET,
SYI»EY.
lot, plus advances, then stood in the
books at £1,000,154. When the board
can see more clearly where it stands, re-
construction of the £913,016 (10s. shares)
capital account is to be embarked upon,
Last term the board bought £94,084 of its
£5OO 000 of issued registered convertible
notes at £l5 916 below par value plus a
saving of £28,000 in maturity premium,
and a further £37 000 (face value) has
since been acquired. Issued in 1936, the
notes were non-interest-bearing, but re-
payable at a 30 p.c. premium in 1942, or
at the option of the co. at a premium of
2i p.c. for each half-year of currency.
In addition, part of the shareholding in
Victoria Gold Dredging (Vic.), which has
already paid divs. equal to approx.
half its paid capital, was disposed
of at a profit of £59,903. Western
Mining Corp., 81 p.c. owner of
Central Norseman and 75 p.c. of the
rich Cox’s Find, Erlistoun, is the
chief Westralian investment. Central
Norseman has yet to declare a div., but
performances so far and results at depth
elsewhere on the Norseman field make
the directors confident, and treatment
has lately been pushed up to 8500 tons
monthly. G.M. of Kalgoorlie is also
expanding plant capacity—to 12,000 tons
a month. Triton has been off the div. list
for a while, owing to a heavy develop-
ment programme on both its own and the
adjoining Western Gold leases, but hopes
shortly to commence regular four-
monthly distributions. Gold Mines of
Aust. is another holding concern, pnnci-
pally interested in the Triton Victoria
Dredging, Morning Star and Mt. Coolon
cos.
* * * *
From re-treatment of Great Boulder’s
No. 1 dump, recent monthly surpluses of
Golden Horse Shoe (W.A.) have been
averaging £A 14,500 on joint account. The
current term has another three months
to run, but a working surplus of
£A120,745 has so far been shown, as
against £A 102,865 for the preceding 12
months. Subject to the demands of the
English taxgatherer, some improvement on
last term’s 6d. (stg.) distribution may be
a possibility. Local market for the 35.-
paid shares is around 3s. lid., of which
3s. 6d. was represented by surplus liquids
at last balance. The co. has some four
years’ work ahead.
$ * * *
Basic-wage and industry-allowance
lifts have added something like £B4OO p.a.
(Is. 9d. per ton of ore mined) to South
Kalgurli’s pay bill, and continuance of
the upward trend is expected to render
the labor problem, should operations be
extended to the Hainault block, “a
matters for serious consideration.” It is
in these leases, now being tested by
diamond-drilling and otherwise, that
‘'main hopes” for the future are con-
sidered to lie. Grade of ore in the main
mine has been recording persistent annual
decrease with depth for some years now.
* * * *
Emu Gold Mining Co., N.L. —not to
be confused with Emu Gold Mines, Ltd.,
a subsidiary of one of De Bernales’s West-
ralian group—has pegged an auriferous
area some distance from Kalgoorlie
(W.A.) on which “four distinct leaders,
one rich,” are reported. A previously
paralysed market bucked up a little
in consequence. Emu was formed in
Adelaide towards the end of 1934, and
a little later sent several parties to pros-
pect in the West. Later still it acquired
and subsequently abandoned an option
on the Waroonga, at Lawlers, which the
other Emu is now working, and which
is producing a fair quantity of gold each
month.
* * * *
A year ago Swan Bitter (W.A.) with
a loud whoop and £4OOO cash transferred
its goldmining activities from Jonesville
to Mt. Magnet. Since then £lOOO worth
of equipment has been added to the
transported and re-erected plant, and
£6OOO, less £lOOO handed back to the co.
as a loan, has been paid off the purchase
price of the Mt. Magnet property. Cash
in hand at April 30 was £lO4 ; a work-
ing surplus of £3899 has been cleared in
the three months since. Blocked
ore reserves are figured at 4000 tons of
joz. average values, and the manager
reckons that there is 10,000 tons of prob-
able ore averaging 7dwt. He adds that
the lode appears to be stronger and wider
in the bottom than in the top levels. To
the day of the annual meeting (Aug. 4)
indebtedness to the vendors was estimated
to be about £6OOO, and shareholders were
to be asked to authorise the board to
borrow to meet the payment. The
management hopes to double the out-
put before long.
* * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie, Ltd., did
well last year. Revenue from gold
at £221,473 advanced 59 p.c. com-
pared with the figure for the previous 12
months, profit at £89,663 jumped nearly
60 p.c., while the div. at 10|d. improved
75 p.c. Speaking about the year’s results,
chairman P. E. Marmion said that de-
velopments were fully up to expectations
in quantity and quality of ore revealed,
and that increased throughput, reduced
operating costs and metallurgical effi-
ciency improved. A programme of ex-
pansion had been embarked upon. Ore
reserves at 670,000 tons were 332,000 tons
more than at the beginning of the year.
The grade was s.6dwt. compared with
6.6dwt. a year previously.
East Kimberley, the scene o
ralia’s 1882 wild gold rush, is in the news
aga j n y b j s t j me some wealth has been
dug ‘ at Ruby Creek and at Willy
Willy, and more is said to be awaiting
extraction. Several other shows arouna
Hall’s Creek, the centre of the field, are
mentioned as coming producers. Since
discovery, East Kimberley has been
cre dited with production of about
20,0000 z. reefing and 5000 oz. alluvial
go ] d . and j t j s believed that more alluvial
go ] d ’ was une arthed than was reported
f ar tbe quartz reefs at Ruby Creek
have been the best yielders.
„ * * *
.... ( x\r \ \ b as re-
Golden Mile Block 45 ••)
ceived payment in full from ,
its Kalgoorlie leases, and P. R- Middle-
(on has recommended that the co^ s
option over the Empire at Norseman be
abandoned—intrusion of hard diorite
S pHt the reef, making development of
enough pay-ore remote.
* » * *
Western Minin" Corp. has bought
the Mistletoej nea r Bullfinch (W.A.), for
£B qqq casb Several satisfactory crush-
jnas Q - per ton have lately
be “ n obta j nec i f rom the property, of
wb j cb Q eorge Foley, formerly M.H.R.
for a i goor ii e? j s the manager. The
c hag a]so ta^en over the Albatross
jn sam£ distrjct
BRIEF ANSWERS.
S.V.: See ‘“Wild Cat’ Monthly” for June,
1939 h,M.: Write secretary, Stock Ex-
change,’ Pitt-street, Sydney, who will furnish
complete |ist ot s'Jers
reC Q m b^ end individual brokers. Secretary, Stock
Exchange, Adelaide, will furnish you with a
complete list.


in less than a minute . . . without
folding or crushing ... in a
lightweight Glpbite Aeroplane
Case. One and two suit sizes.
GLOBITE
i;IQ j
WHAT IS TERRA-COTTA?
The majority of people see Terra-
Cotta daily on the facades of well-
known buildings, such as the
Commonwealth Bank, Castlereagh
Street; the Railway Administration
Building and Shell Building, both in
Wynyard Square; the A.P.A.
Building, Martin Place; the Grace
Building, York and King Streets;
the B.M.A. Building, Macquarie
Street; and many others.
Terra - Cotta is a product of
selected clays, obtained in N.S.W.
and Victoria, and its manufacture
for building use employs skilled
ceramists designers, modellers,
and highly trained workmen. The
clays used are milled into a plastic
mass, then pressed to predeter-
mined shapes, following which the
pressed units are air-dried. The
blocks, usually 4in thick, are then
sprayed with a ceramic medium to
impart colour and glaze, then burnt
(baked) in kilns to a temperature of
1,250 deg. centigrade. When
burnt hard, the Terra-Cotta units
are dressed, fitted, and numbered
ready for erection.
AS OLD AS HISTORY
Terra-Cotta manufacture, in com-
mon with other ceramics, is as old
as history itself. Modern Terra-
Cotta for facing buildings is being
increasingly specified because its
outstanding characteristics are
permanence and colour.
The application of the glaze im-
parts the desired colours as well as
giving the material a glass surface
impervious to weather, and to the
destructive elements in the atmos-
phere, such as soot, dust, and
grime. The vitreous surface of the
Terra-Cotta is cleansed by every
rainfall, and its colourful, architec-
tural beauty maintained, unim-
paired by fading, discolouration,
or disintegration.
An improved method of manufac-
turing Terra-Cotta has now been
developed in Melbourne under the
name of
CERAMIC FACING
which possesses all the attributes
of hand-pressed Terra-Cotta in
respect to colour, finish, and per-
manence, but is more economically
produced by machinery. More-
over, Ceramic Facing has a thick-
ness ranging from I fin to 2in, as
against the 4in thickness of hand-
pressed Terra-Cotta, thus resulting
in a saving in wall thickness, with-
out sacrificing stability and func-
tional perfection.
The modern trend of design in
architecture, calling for plain and
simple treatments, can be admir-
ably conceived in Ceramic Facing.
w
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Trade—and Finance
Australia’s overseas trade figures for
the full year to June 30 became available
a few days ago. On trade alone we were
£9,344,000 sterling to the good during
1938-39 ; on balance of payments (includ-
ing overseas interest) we shall be
upwards of £12,000,000 to the bad. In
1937-38, when the trade balance was
£2,519,000 sterling greater than in the
latest term, London funds were drawn
on by a sum in excess of £10,000,000. It
would be safe to say that something like
£25,000,000 has been taken out of our
sterling balances these past two years in
order to service our external debt and
to provide for withdrawals of capital and
payment of dividends to absentee share-
holders.
By reason of the lower revenue re-
ceived by farmers for their exports and
the fact that shrinking London funds in
any case suggest caution, the poor trad-
ing year has burdened the Australian
economy in several directions. This table
shows how both export and import values
fell away last year:
1937-38. 1938-39. Movement.
„ £stg. 1000. £stg. 1000. £stg. 1000.
exports —
Merchandise .. 112,282 96,407 -15,875
Go]d •• .. 13,556 15,169 +1,613
Total .. .. 125,838 111,576 -14,262
Imports —
Merchandise .. 111,733 99,388 -12,345
G °ld •• •• 2,242 2,844 +602
Total .. .. 113,975 102,232 -11,743
Balance .. .. +11,863 +9,344 -2,519
Exports of merchandise dropped
£15,875,000 sterling, a rise of £1,613,000
in gold production toning the net fall
down to £14,262,000. Imports were not
reduced to the same extent as exports—
they were £11,743,000 lower than in
1937-38.
We have had over two years of falling
export prices—the break came in April,
1937, when Roosevelt threatened to de-
flate the dollar in order to curb soaring
prices. The fall in 1938-39 was 16.6
p.c. on 1937-38. The following table
shows how lower prices (in few cases
lower yields) affected the export revenue
of various Australian industries: — :
Exports—
-1937-38. 1938-39. Movement.
£A. £A. £A.
Butter .. 10,781,124 12,228,074 +1,446,950
Meats—
Beef .. 4,367,064 4,323,841 -43,223
Lamb .. 4,645,624 4,393,917 -251,707
Raisins .. 1,968,450 1,958,178 -10,27!2
Preserved
fruit .. 1,288,363 1,273,316 -15,047
Wheat .. 20,906,601 8,757,269 -12,149,332
Flour .. 6,032,488 4,541,072 -1,491,416
Sugar .. 4,026,993 4,026,920 -73
Skins—
Hides .. 1,294,479 1,056,455 -238,024
Rabbit.. 1,052,709 429,281 -623,428
Sheep .. 3,460,941 2,370,357 -1,090,584
Wool-
Greasy .. 41,221,850 37,398,538 -3,823,312
Scoured 5,761,711 5,330,192 -431,519
Metals —
Zinc .. 2,069,697 1,713,162 -356,535
Lead .. 4,913,762 4,276,091 -637,671
Iron and
steel.. 1,219,610 2,318,994 +1,099,384
Timber, etc. 1,411,309 1,109,554 -301,755
Gold .. 15,912,343 17,953,439 +2,041,096
Those figures are in Australian currency.
The fall in wheat export values was no
less than £12,149,000, with £1,491,000 in
flour. Wool came next with a drop of
£4,255,000 Australian. Lead and zinc
exports were lower by about £1,000,000,
skins and hides by £1,950,000. It should
be remembered, too, that the 1937-38
figures in most cases represent a reduc-
tion on 1936-37.
Butter exports were worth £1,446,950
more, gold rose £2,041,096, while iron
and steel shipments increased £1,099,384,
nearly doubling. In the last month of
the year they totalled £351,056, compared
with £79,089 in the same month of the
previous year. Orders from Britain in
comparatively -recent months have been
responsible for most of the lift in steel
exports, and in 1939-40 a further increase
should occur—provided the Maoriland
market isn’t closed. This growth in
B.H.P.’s selling activities is an important
development.
It is interesting to study next the way
in which we spend our money overseas.
Most of it goes paying for cotton textiles,
metal manufactures, machinery and
motor-cars, petrol, paper and chemicals.
Tea is a big single item:
1937-38. 1938-39. Movement.
£stg. £stg. £stg.
Imports —
Fish .. 868,451 946,218 +77,767
Tea .. 2,394,335 2,482,883 +88,548
Spirits and
liquors .. 727,220 720,078 -7,142
Vegeta b 1 e
raw ma-
terials .. 3,194,512 2,607,970 -586,542
Tob a c c o,
etc. .. 2,011,004 1,855,251 -155,753
Yarns and
manufac-
tured
fibres .. 3,396,755 2,747,620 -649,135
Apparel .. 1,996,283 1,865,314 -130,969
Textiles (not
apparel) 15,623,907 13,144,032 -2,479,875
Oils, tats
and waxes 9,429,257 8,692,954 -736,303
Petrol* .. 6,106,301 5,675,949 -430,352
Machinery 15,290,635 13,775,603 -1,515,032
Other
metal
manufac-
tures ..21,989,373 17,521,807 -4,467,566
M o.t o r
c h a ssis,
etc. f .. 8,316,057 7,218,787 -1,097,270
Rubber,etc. 1,786,441 1,545,421 -241,020
Timber .. 2,759,081 2,080,032 -679,049
Paper, etc. 6,609,609 6,191,256 -418,353
Scientific in-
struments 1,558,483 1,600,725 +42,242
Chemica Is
and fertil-
isers .. 5,304,092 5,594,596 +290,504
M i s c e 1-
laneous.. 7,112,733 6,840,226 -272,507
* Included in oils, fats and waxes, f Included
with metals and metal manufactures.
Largest among reductions that were
almost general were those in metal manu-
factures (including motor chassis) at
£4,467,000, and in textiles (£2,479,000).
Having examined the effect of the fall
in world prices on the country’s export
position, it is less easy to ascertain the
effect on the internal, situation. Inter-
nally we have factories acting as a sort
of balance-wheel in our economy, while
butter, sugar, dried fruits, etc., are stabi-
lised at a “home-consumption” price.
Then there is the wheat bounty. But it
is clear that costs are still rising at a
time when the national income is falling.
As a result unemployment is increasing,
credit is tightening, and the cost of public
and private borrowing is going up.
This table shows how the nine prin-
cipal trading banks operating in the Com-
monwealth have been forced to stretch
their resources over the past 12 months
in order to meet the call for assistance:
Quarterly Banking Aggregates.
June 30, Mar. 31, June 30,
1938. 1939. 1939.
£ £ £
Deposits —
Bearing in-
terest .. 198,866,220 199,084,134 201,213,858
Non-
interest 120,407,999 122,547,643 120,112,181
s sets —
Coin .. 1,838,580 2,168,056 1,953,483
Bullion .. 743,730 818,783 1,053,054
Aus. notes 30,938,327 33,157,326 27,448,817
Govt. se-
curities 30,070,023 20,330,466 22,256,759
Commonwealth
Treasury
Bills .. 19,395,000 25,418,075 25,041,154
Landed
prop. .. 9,120,700 9,382,325 9,557,785
Due from
banks .. 1,563,337 1,890,394 1,631,356
Bills of
banks .. 2,205,039 2,042,161 2,183,675
Advances 284,100,517 284,928,571 290,776,157
Ratio per cent. —
Cash to
deposits 10.50 11.23 9.47
Advances to
deposits 89.00 88.58 90.49
Over the 12 months deposits have in-
creased by £2,000,000, while as much as
£6,600,000 extra has been advanced to
customers. A large part of that extra
assistance must have gone to the primary
industries, since it is well known that of
late the banks haven’t been encouraging
city building and the like.
The Commercial Banking Co. of Syd-
ney has shown net profits of £377,454 for
the year to June 30, compared with
£365,975 for the preceding twelve months.
Latest result was equal to a shade under
8 p.c. on paid capital, and an unchanged
div. of 7 p.c. goes out. The same amount
(£35,000) is being written off bank
premises. Though deposits fell by nearly
£1,000,000 during the year, advances in-
creased by about £300,000.
A profit almost unchanged at £262,910
was shown by the Commercial Bank of
Australia over the 12 months to June 30.
The result represented 8.9 p.c. on ord.
capital, and the div. was kept at the rate
of 7.1 p.c. A sum of £30,000 is written
off bank premises. The C.8.A., which
operates largely in Victoria, increased its
deposits by £945,000 during the term,
and made additional advances to the tune
of £620,000.
* * * US
For longish holding the shares in New
Broken Hill Consolidated look attrac-
tive buying. Production may not be
reached quite in accord with anticipa-
tions (first half of 1940), but the mine is
likely to open up better than at present
expected by the sharemarket. There are
2,026,911 ss. shares issued (fewer than
in the case of either South or North), and
last week they were priced at 15s. 6d.
each.
* * * *
Last week a start was made on the fac-
tory of the Australian Aluminium Co.
Pty., situated near the Duck River, Gran-
ville (N.S.W.). Electrolytic Zinc is inter-
ested. The rolling mill and extrusion
departments will cover 15 acres.


BALANCE SHEET OF
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
( Incorporated in Victoria)
AT 30th JUNE, 1939.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL, £5,000,000 (Divided into 300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each and 4,000,000 Ordinary Shares of 10s. each).
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Issued Capital—
-211,735 Preference Shares paid in cash to £lO per share
4,000,000 Ordinary Shares paid in cash to 10s. per share
4,211,735
Reserve (used .in the business of the Bank)
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in the business of
the Bank)
Profit and Loss Account
Notes in circulation
Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including provisions
Contingencies
Government Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest (and Interest accrued)
Other Deposits—
Not Bearing Interest
Bearing Interest (and Interest accrued)
Balances Due to Other Banks
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to obligations of Customers and
others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc.)
£6,600,607 1 3
6,186 0 0
1,510,431 16 5
’ 9,142 14 6
1,293,336 19 2
£40,417,219 15 __3
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Notes, Cash at Bankers and at Short Call in
London
Short-dated Commonwealth and New Zealand Treasury
Bills .. .. ..
British, Australian and New Zealand Government, Muni-
cipal and Other Public Stocks and Debentures (at or
under market value) .. ..
Bills Receivable in London and Balance of Remittances and
Drafts in- Transit .. :. : . . .
Notes and Bills of'Other Banks .. .. •• „ ••
Balances Due from Other Banks ..
Stamps .. .. ••
£3,292,379 10 6
2,065,000 0 0
5,061,219 19 0
1,912,304 2 10
175,423 6 6
32,638 3 3
18,493 15
-£12,557,458 17
Bills' Discounted and Other Advances -{less provision for Bad or Doubtful
Debts) .. .. .. • • ■ • • • '• • • ■ • • • • • • 25,305,739 18 8
Bank Premises, Fixtures, Fittings and Furniture (at cost, less amounts
written off) .. .. •• •• •• •• 1,257,209 0 0
Other interest in Land (at cost, less amounts written off) 3,475 0 0
Contingent Assets, comprising Liability of Customers and Others on Letters
of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees, etc., as per contra .. .. .. .. 1,293,336 19 2
£40,417,219 15 3
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency.)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries and Allowances —Head Office and 558 Branches and Agencies
(including Directors’ Fees, .£2247/7/8) ..
„ Rent and Other Charges ..
„ Net Profit for the year
To Reduce Bank Premises .. • • • • • • • •
„ Interim Dividend at 4 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares paid
February, 1939 .. .. .. .. •• ••
„ Interim Dividend at 6 2-3 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares paid
February, 1939
„ Balance
£372,270 14 7
Bv Amount of Profits, after deducting Interest Accrued on Deposits and Rebate
on Bills Current, and after making a transfer to Provismns for
Contingencies, out of which account an amount has been provided for
Bad and Doubtful Debts, fluctuations in investments, and other contin-
gencies, and after making provisions for Income, Land and other taxes £1,095,327 9 2
By Balance from last Year
„ Net Profit for the Year
By Balance
£233,257 1 3
I, Percy Frederick Graham Gordon, General Manager of the Commercial Bank Australia, Limited, do solemnly and declare g^| k th | 1 tbe best D f my knowledge
Reserve, and accumulated profits are used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and Statement of Piofit and Loss ot me name ,
and belief, true in every particular. , t nv at u IP dntp of the Statement- John Langley Webb, Shipowner, Melbourne; Achalen
Names, addresses and occupations of the persons who are the Directors of the Company at the dateof the btatem • Melbourne; William James Byrne, Solicitor,
Woolliscroft Palfreyman, Manufacturer, Melbourne; William Howell Swanton, Merchant, Melbourne, Arthur Sydney Baillieu, lnvestoi, ivieioou
Melbourne. „ tril . anf i u v v : rtlie n f the nrovisions of an Act of the Parliament of Victoria rendering persons
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be tiue, y P.
making a false declaration punishable for wilful and corrupt perjury. , ■ „ nr i t i-,j r tv-ninp
Declared at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 25th day of July, One thousand nine hundred and thirty nine. p p G GORDON.
Before me —R. L. G. McCOY,
A Commisioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.”
We, John Langley Webb, William Howell Swanton and William James Byrne, ot
that in our opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet and Statement of Profit and .Loss aie true
Company's affairs.
Dated at Melbourne this 25th day of July, 1939
Melbourne, being Directors of The Commercial Bank of Australia, Limited, do hereby certify
”d correct, and are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct »>ew of the state of the
On behalf of the W£BB
W. H. SWANTON,
Paltriness was the chief feature of the
row in the Sydney Government last week.
With the N. S. Wales Budget off balance,
unemployment on the increase, an un-
pleasant situation overseas and wheat
down to near the lowest price it has ever
brought at Darling Harbor, Mr. Stevens
and Mr. Spooner could not settle their
differences and for a change try to “save
the country” in real earnest. The Stevens
Government came into power at the turn
of the economic tide in 1932. It had its
difficulties to start with, but it was helped
immeasurably by a self-sacrificing people.
It had about two years of depression to
cope with at the beginning, and. then five
years of recovery, culminating in a spell
of prosperity the like of which indus-
trialised Australia had never before seen.
This prosperity was fathered by a re-
covery in world prices and mothered by
sacrifices on the part of the people, re-
sulting in lowered costs of production.
Just as soon as the effect of lower world
prices and the dissipation of the benefits
conferred on Governments by the reduc-
tion of costs began to squeeze the public
revenue, the Stevens crowd cracked up.
The lack of resourcefulness displayed in
dealing with the economic problems of
the State has been pitiable. Its imagi-
nation has never run beyond the formula
of “borrow what you can’t raise by taxa-
tion and then blew the lot.” What a
smoke-screen war scares have been to
bodies like the Sydney Government!
* * * *
The way rising costs swindle people of
their money’s worth is well demonstrated
by figures issued in Canberra last week.
Though sa.vings-bank deposits on June
30 represented a record, their buying
power was 1.5 p.c. less than that of the
smaller deposits total of a year ago.
When annual interest was added at
June 30, savings-bank deposits through-
out the Commonwealth aggregated
£245,538,000, up £5,106,000 in 12 months,
and they represented £35 6s. a head of
the population.
* * * *
The burden of increased costs, low
export prices and high (with the prob-
ability of higher) taxation which the
Australian sharemarkets are carrying
had added to it last Thursday the uncer-
tainty created by the defeat of the Stevens
Government. To a visitor from Mars
who had been on earth for a period no
longer than the duration of the beaten
Government, the event might have
seemed to be in the nature of a blessing,
with rejoicing and jubilation the next
item on the programme. But before
Stevens we had Lang, and after Stevens
we are to have —whom? That was
the attitude the sharemarkets tookj and
they expressed their disgust by further
marking down quotations on Friday
morning, especially in the case of stocks
having interests in Stevens’s State. B.H.P.
weakened ; so did Tooth, British Tobacco
and other shares. A.C.1., after a slack-
ening following' announcement of terms
of the new share issue, had a sharp re-
lapse on Friday. Appointment of Mr.
Mair as a stop-gap Premier happened
after ’Change closed on Saturday.
Tone in the Australian sharemarkets,
firm enough at the week’s beginning,
quickly . became more uncertain as the
week went on. New York was steady
most of the time, with London only
slightly less confident, but Australian in-
vestors, taking stock of their own national
problems, decided that they had a pecu-
liar row of their own to hoe, and marked
down share prices accordingly.
* * * *
The announcement of a new cash issue
of ord. shares by Australian Consolidated
Industries was what the market has been
dwelling on the past couple of weeks,
during which time the price of the co.’s
•ords. lifted from 345. 6d. to 38s. When
details were given out last week the first
reaction was one of disappointment, the
scrip dropping immediately to 375. 3d.
It ' later faded to 355. 6d.. Share-
holders are to be offered 996,941
ords., two for seven, at a premium of
55.. a share.; On the basis of 365. for the
old ords., the:value of the fights to this
issue works out at about 2s: sd. per old
share, or 335. 7d. for the old scrip ex
rights. So whatever div. was anticipated
on the old scrip before news of the new
issue got into the wind the market seems
to expect on the new shares as well.
When paying 38s. for the scrip investors
apparently didn’t expect a premium to
be charged. Otherwise the position was
judged almost to a nicety, assuming that
the shares were worth 345. 6d. before the
big rise took place. A Tariff Board
inquiry is still pending.
The proposal of the Dunlop Perdriau
Rubber Co. to shift its Melbourne factory
from Montague to Beaumaris and to
establish a township for its employees
there was followed by a weakened market
for the scrip, which declined from 19s.
9d. on Monday of last week to 18s. 7d.
on Saturday.
Dunlop Perdriau recently took over the
manufacturing and distributing activities
of the Barnet Glass Co.,’ in which it
owns most of the ord. shares. A propo-
sition is likely to be made to the pref.
shareholders in Barnet 'Glass at that co.’s
annual meeting, and chairman W. A.
Watt believes it should be acceptable.
An offer of repayment or conversion is
feared by these pref. shareholders, and
the market price of the 8-10 p.c. scrip
has fallen from 335. ini May to 28s. last
week.
* * # *
Melbourne City Council’s £430,000
loan', 10 years at 41 p.c., was fully sub-
scribed. The National Bank handled it.
* * * *
In the par. (B. 2/8/’39) dealing with
the loss made by Westinghouse Rose-
bery, Ltd., in its last financial year it was
stated that Westinghouse Rosebery
owned Wormald Bros., Ltd. (of •Sydney).
This has been pointed out on behalf of
Wormald Bros, to be an error. The
Bulletin’s mistake arose through the
misinterpretation of a paragraph in the
June, 1936, prospectus of Westinghouse
Rosebery, in which it was stated that the
“commercial refrigeration activity of
Wormald Bros.” had been bought in
1932. Wormald Bros, has activities other
than those disposed of, however, and it
remained an independent company.
* * * *
There was sustained activity in Aus-
tralasian Paper ords. early last week.
Several hundred shares changed hands
over the week, and the price lifted
from the low level of 275. 6d.
touched a short while back to 295. The
operating co., Australian Paper Manu-
facturers, closed its books on June 30,
and a div. should be announced shortly.
Australasian Paper’s final ord. is due in
October. The working co. should have
had its usual satisfactory year, with 8
p.c. from the holding cos. assured to the
investors. How the new Gippsland pulp
mill is behaving hasn’t been broadcast
yet, though it was scheduled to start
commercial production at the beginning
of last month. The new Botany (N.S.W.)
mill is turning out 150 tons of papei-
board a day, working at full capacity.
The old Broadford (Vic.) straw-board
mill,'which closed on August 5, may later
on be used as the site for a transparent-
wrappings plant. ,•
* * * *
Base metals were particularly firm last
week, the higher prices on London Metal
Exchange being sustained in a greater
degree than share quotations on London
Stock Exchange. Lead rose to some-
where near its highest price this year,
spelter was at its 1939 “top,” while copper
also firmed to near its best price since
Nov., 1938. Tin was kept steady at
Is. 3d. under £230 a ton. The following
table gives a lengthy comparison of metai
quotations:
Electro. . _ , ,
Copper, Lead, Spelter, Tin, Gold,
Ton. Ton. Ton. Ton. Fine Oz.
June ..£39.8 £14.0 £12.9 £177.6 140 s. 9d.
July . . 44.8 14.9 14.1 192.7 141 s. 3d.
Aug. .. 46.3 14.8 13.5 193.1 1425. 6d.
Sept. . . 47.6 15.2 14.0 ,193.9 1445. 6d.
Oct. .. 51.7 16.2 15.1 207.1 1455. 9d.
Nov. .. 51.5 16.1 14.4 214.0 147 s 7d.
.Dec. ..49.4 15.1 13.7 214.6 148 s. lOd.
Jan. ..48.9 14.5 13.7 215.6 148 s. lid.
Feb. . . 47.8 14.3 13.5 214.0 148 s. 4d.
Mar. . . 48.6 14.7 13.7 215.5 148 s. sd.
Apr. . . 48.2 14.3 13.4 218.5 148 s. 6d.
May .. 47.9 14.5 13.7 225.7 148 s. 6d.
June . . 47.9 14.6 14.0 227.6 148 s. sd.
July .. 49.1 15.0 14.2 229.9 148 s. 6d.
Aug. 4.. 50.7 16.1 14.5 229.9 148 s. 6d.
Last week’s better prices followed on a
firmness that was evident throughout
July, as shown by a comparison with
quotes for-June and May. Recovery in the
world price of any class of commodities
is something to attract interest from
all classes of producers and industrialists.
I: may. even happen that the improved
market for metals will give a fillip to the
opening of the Australian wool sales
about the beginning of September. Some-
thing of the kind has been forecast by
members of the wool trade.
* * * *
In Melbourne last week:
Myer ordinaries dropped back to the low
level of 28s. 3d. Support for this leading
retailer has been lifeless for months.
Milano, Mt. Monger (W.A.), was the gold
gamble of the week. There were dealings at
prices up to £6 10s., following reports of the
rich shoot being longer than anticipated. The
co. has been working in some 3oz. stuff.
Johns and Waygood, a structural steel con-
cern, announced a profit of £48,770 — almost
unchanged when compared with 1937-38.


v
W&W&M'
ber tha [ a l°lier Ready ele ‘ tr £ er Ready
aii °lr«dh fac‘orri' esh **
X
Ml
Mil
Aa
Keep one handy. Keep it loaded
Wherever you go—whatever you plan to do to-night—remember to take a
torch along. It may prove worth its weight in gold.
Slipped into the side pocket of the car, or in the pocket of your coat, it takes
up but little room, yet is always there ready for emergencies, to save stumbling
and fumbling in the dark. In the camper’s haversack or the fisherman’s bag,
its weight is hardly noticed, yet its friendly beam has helped many a wanderer to
safety, saved many a fisherman from a cold night on a lonely rock. Even along-
side the bed its dazzling brilliance is comforting, to say the least . . . and around
the house it has a million and one uses.
If you haven’t already got a torch, BUY ONE TO-MORROW. You can get
a genuine Ever Ready model anywhere for a few shillings.
TORCHESandREFILLS
TlO-950


CITY MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1879.
DIRECTORS.
GEORGE E. BRYANT, Chairman.
The Hon. FRANK E. WALL, M.D., M.L.C.
m. j. o’neill o. j. McDermott
WM. BENNETT, Managing Director.
FUNDS - - ■ £9,330,027
Reserve for Contingencies - - - - £452,950
Reserve for equalisation of Bonuses- £lOO,OOO
Percentage of Reserves to Funds - - - - 5.9%
mm
mm
m m
■
l iS
i B
m a
Head Office Sydney.
Funds and Reserves are invested thus:
TOTAL ASSETS .. £10,027,149
STATE OFFICES:
NEW SOUTH WALES: Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney; J. P. Mahony, Manager.
VICTORIA: 459 Collins Street, Melbourne; C. A. Ralph, Manager.
QUEENSLAND: 313-315 Adelaide Street, Brisbane; J. M. Hannan, Manager.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; B. J. Dolin, Manager.
WEST AUSTRALIA: 62 St. George’s Terrace, Perth; A. Wansbrough, Manager,
TASMANIA: 105 Macquarie Street, Hobart; L. H. Williams, Agency Manager.
HEAD OFFICE:
Mutual Building, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney
H. V. NAPIER, A.1.A.,
Assistant Actuary.
G. F. DIAMOND, A.1.A., F.F.1.A.,
Actuary and General Accountant.
J. G. TAYLOR, A.F.1.A., A.A.1.5.,
General Secretary.
WM. . BEN'NETT,
General Manager.
M. L’ESTRANGE,
Property Manager.
J. A. THOMSON,
Assistant General Manager.
AGENTS
WAN T E D—A PP L Y S TATE MANAGER.
LIFE ASSURANCE SUPPLEMENT
The Young Man's Heritage
The present (younger) generation of
Australians have been handed a national
debt of nearly £1,300,000,000 by their
forebears (some of it, of course, repre-
sents our share of the wastage of the
Great War), they have inherited heavy
taxes and amazingly complicated forms
of government, and among the assets
that are left to them as a compensation
for these burdens there are a number
that Young Australia would be gladly
rid of.
But in spite of such handed-down dis-
abilities, Australia is a great country.
Away from the white elephants that seem
to figure overlargely in the Australian
landscape may be found a number of
fine industries and institutions that more
than make up for the unpleasant things.
The founders of the wool industry were
far-seeing men, and the B.H.P. steelworks
at Newcastle were built on very solid
foundations. Our banks render a service
to the nation that is not bettered in any
other country of the world. And the
same may be said, with emphasis, of our
leading life-assurance offices.
One of the more hopeful signs of the
times is the fact that young men are be-
coming more and more interested in life
assurance, and particularly in that type of
assurance (called Ordinary Department
assurance) where the premiums are paid
yearly, half-yearly or quarterly. This is
the most remunerative form of assur-
ance. It is the younger man who makes
the best bargain in life assurance, and
the young man who takes out an assur-
ance policy and keeps his payments up
becomes immediately a more substantial
asset in his community.
Although Australians have on occa-
sion in the past been labelled “spend-
thrift” and other similar designations,
they have been good supporters of life
assurance. Their staunchness has repaid
them well, because in mutual life assur-
ance collective support generally means
collective prosperity. The more mem-
bers a life office has, the cheaper the
cost of looking after each member’s in-
terest should be —and .the greater the
bonuses. It is, of course, from low-
expense rates and other things of similar
nature that a life office is built up in its
services to policy-holders.
The lesson of life assurance became
well known to the last generation of
Australians when they had reached
middle life. About the beginning of this
century the assurance business was not
nearly so stable, generally speaking, as it
is to-day. But now the young man can
be shown facts and figures relating to
what has actually been done in the case
of life assurance over the past 40 years;
some of those figures look very well.
Thus life assurance is looming bigger
and bigger before the eyes of the younger
man. And it is the younger man who
can really afford life assurance. It costs
him least when he can spare the money
most.
The Principal Service
A policy of life assurance is primarily
a guarantee to pay a sum of money to
dependants of the assured in the event
of his death, however early or however
late. That is the original idea on which
life assurance was founded, and it is
something which should be never over-
looked by a person who is considering
life assurance. The prime cover obtained
under an ordinary life assurance policy
is that in relation to the death risk.
True, a very large number of endowment
assurance policies are taken out these
days, and it may be that the person so
taking out a policy is principally in-
terested in the endowment payable on
the attainment of a certain specified
age ; but whether that happens to be the
case or not, the life office has no choice
but to pay out the sum assured in the
event of the death of the assured person
so long as the policy has been kept in
force by the regular payment of pre-
miums, or by virtue of the application
of its surrender value to the payment
of overdue premiums.
Thus it happens that the assured has
to pay for the death risk whether he
really wants death cover or not. It is
something which the life office offers as
“I think Well call it a day, Bert.”


e
part of its endowment assurance con-
tracts, and the fact should be properly
understood by intending assurers, lne
life office has to carry, and therefore has
to charge for, the death risk.
Very often a young man, when he
takes out an endowment assurance policy,
may regard it as purely a savings in-
vestment. Indeed, for a young man not
contemplating marriage, an endowment
is the ideal form of life assurance. And
if the young man lives to the endowment
age he will generally find that, regarded
purely as an investment, his capital has
been preserved secure for him and he has
been credited satisfactory interest as well.
But whatever a young man’s views on
life are in his teens or early twenties, it
is certain that they will undergo some
change before he reaches middle age.
Ten years after he took out an endow-
ment policy he may decide (or the de-
cision may be made for him by some
member of the opposite sex) to get
married. In that case he begins imme-
diately to appreciate the fact that he has
assurance against death as well as against
his own old age. Endowment assurance
for a young man is really a very fine
thing.
The only time that a person is likely
to regret having taken out an endowment
assurance policy is when he or she,
through some cause or other, decides to
discontinue the assurance by paying no
further premiums. In such a case the
surrender value, in the case of a policy
only a few years in force, is very small
in relation to the premiums paid in. In
other words, the cash value of the policy
brought to a premature finish may seem
unsatisfactory. But a policy once taken
out should be continued until maturity ;
that is one of the essential principles of
life assurance. And so, in the case of
pre-maturity payments, the surrender
value has to bear the charge estimated
to cover the death risk that the office
has run since the policy was taken out.
Thus it is usually much more profit-
able for the assured, if he wishes to
discontinue paying premiums, to ask for
a policy of reduced amount, payable
at the same time and on the same terms
as the original, participating also in
bonuses, but free of further premiums.
In fact, if all its possibilities and advan-
tages are availed of, it is hard to make
a bad investment in life assurance, pro-
vided it has been taken out in a reputable
office.
"Mutual and Equitable"
Present-day life assurance has as its
basis nearly all the principles of equity.
The idea is to be fair to all members;
hence the term “mutual” appearing in
the names of most Australian and
English offices, and “equitable” in those
formed in the U.S.A. Sometimes,
especially upon the point of surrender
values, etc., an assured person may not
think he is getting the fair deal he
appears to be entitled to. But he
probably is in most good offices, and if
he isn’t, and the surrender value favors
the office, then the members who keep
their policies going ultimately get the
benefit of what he may have lost in
surrendering his policy. And, after all,
life assurance is designed for members
who keep their policies going. Surrender
values are really an extension of the
mutual principle rather than an inherent
part of it.
Assurance has been described as the
“balance-wheel” of life. A policy-
holder may live long and pay many
premiums; but with a participating
policy in a sound office he should lose
no capital over his transaction. And
when he took out the policy neither he
nor his dependants could be sure that a
long life was ahead, of him. He might
have died within a year, when his policy
would have become a claim. Thus the
lucky ones who live pay for the unlucky
ones who die. But in a well-managed
office no one really loses from a
monetary point of view.
One of the principles of mutual or
semi-mutual assurance is that all profits
after providing for claims and probable
claims, expenses, dividends (if any) and
reserves shall be distributed among
policy-holders in the form of reversionary
bonuses. The competition which exists
among leading offices in Australia tends
towards keeping exes, and other outgo
as low as possible, and increasing the
surplus for* policy-holders by way of
bonuses.
The basic idea behind life assurance
is that those who live contribute to-
wards the dependants of those who die.
Though the contributor himself is
assured of the same treatment to his
dependants when he dies, even if he lives
beyond the allotted span he should lose
no capital in his venture provided he
holds a participating policy in a solid
bonus-paying office.
And so all types of life assurance
can be regarded as an investment by one
who assures in a good office. The gamble
as regards the capital of the assurance
is wholly on the part of the office. The
speculation as far as the policy-holder
is concerned is practically limited to the
question of bonuses. He can almost al-
ways be certain of his premiums back ;
and often he receives excellent interest,
as well as death-cover for his dependants.
After a life office has established itself,
it should begin to pay bonuses, and then
improved bonuses, subject to financial
depressions such as we saw in 1930-33.
Rarely does an office reduce its
premium rates ; if results improve and
the office is able to run its business with
lower expenses and claims than it first
planned, and if investment income
is better than expected, the assurer gets
the benefit not in cuts in the payments
he makes to the society, but in bonuses.
He originally contracted to make cer-
tain periodical payments in return for a
lump sum at a certain age or at death ;
in the end he gets a considerably greater
sum. That is the theory ; and in practice
results have usually been better than
anticipations.
The value of an assurance policy
largely depends on the bonus-paying
capacity, present and future, of the
office. Sometimes, also, an office is more
liberal on the point of surrender and
loan values than others.
In choosing an office, therefore, atten-
tion should be given to expense rates,
mortality experience, investment income,
reserves set aside for policy liabilities,
and the nature of investment of the
funds.
It is by not fully distributing surplus
profits, and adding part of them to re-
serves, that a life office increases its
future bonus-paying ability. Thus we
hear of terms like “the basis of valua-
tion.” This often means the basis of
anticipating the future. If an office, for
example, up to the present expecting a
4 p.c. return on its investments, is able,
by increasing its reserves, to count on
only a 34- p.c. return and still pay the
same bonuses, its bonuses are obviously
going to be higher if it actually nets
4 p.c. on the strengthened funds.
Likewise if an office budgets for high
expenses and high mortality, and both
those forms of outgo are below expecta-
tions, another source of profit accrues.
A life office is a continuing entity, and
old policy-holders benefit by new ones
coming in. To make it attractive for
new members to join up, prospects must
be made appealing v by strengthening
bonus-paying possibilities. It is by reten-
tion of part of the profits that the future
is made more secure.
Which Kind Do You Want ?
Although a book could be written
about the refinements and adaptations of
the original types of life assurance, there
are still only three basic types of busi-
ness transacted by life offices. The
offices offer to provide (a) a sum of
money at death of the assured in return
for payment of periodical premiums,
(b) a sum of money at death of the
assured or upon his reaching a certain
age (whichever event happens first) in
return for premiums, and (c) they offer
regular income until death in return for
a lump sum. Type c is called an annuity,
and by itself it is the least frequent
type of business appearing in a life
office’s books. But by coupling it with
types a and b it has become very popu-
lar.
A man, for instance, may take out
what is commonly called a “death”
policy (otherwise “whole-of-life”), pay-
ing his premiums until death; when
that happens he may have contracted
that the lump sum he has assured for
shall be retained by the life office, but
his dependants instead shall receive a
regular periodical income until the death
of the chief dependant, usually the wife,
on which event the annuity terminates.
Thus it is that, by combining the prin-
ciple of the whole-life policy with an
annuity, the “family-income” contract
has been evolved. This type of policy,
very popular in recent years, has been
elaborated on in many ways. Some
policies, in return for payment by the
assured of a higher premium (or
acceptance by the dependants of a
smaller annuity), provide for a lump-sum
payment to dependants at death of the
assured, and a life income to the
principal dependant, and a lump sum at
death of the dependant, thus providing
in a measure for possible children of
minor age.
Further adaptations have taken place
in recent years. Endowment assurance
policies (type b in the foregoing) have
been combined with the annuity


w
principle to provide income for de-
pendants at the assured’s death before
his reaching a certain age, or an income
to the assured himself and dependants
after attaining a certain age. This may
be described as a type of self-selected
pension scheme, with provision for de-
pendants in the event of early death.
It will be seen that “income policies’
have particular attraction for an assurer
who does not trust his own or his de-
pendants’ judgment in the matter of in-
vesting proceeds of an endowment or
whole-life policy when age or death
matures such policies.
As with any other important venture,
a good deal of thought is required on
the part of the husband and wife when
an assurance policy of the income type
is contemplated. It is a somewhat in-
volved kind of a contract, difficult of
comparison with other types of income
policies, and therefore it is most desirable
that it be taken out with a first-class,
reputable office. And it is always wise
to consider whether a straightout en-
dowment or whole-life policy wouldn’t
do better. Such policies are more
adaptable to changing circumstances.
Very often young men take out en-
dowment policies with the object of
collecting a lump sum to help them dur-
ing the early part of their business lives.
The same young men, when they marry,
probably will take out a substantial
whole-life policy purely for the sake of
their wives and possible children. Then,
having established an estate against the
contingency of premature death, they
may consider their own old age and that
of their wives, and take out any
additional assurance cover in the form
of endowments, payable at a time when
they calculate that their working lives
will be over, and when a lump sum
will make “retiring” a pleasure and not
a tragedy.
Types of policies should always be
picked to suit the particular circum-
stances. Merely to be assured isn’t
enough ; to get value for money, the type
of policy selected should be appropriate
to the necessity. For the purpose of
collecting a lump sum at a certain age
before death, endowment assurance is
more economical than the taking out of
a whole-life policy and cashing it for its
surrender value when the money is re-
quired.
An endowment assurance policy is
designed to provide the greatest possible
endowment, with a corresponding re-
duction in the death cover; a whole-
life policy is meant to give the greatest
practicable death covef, and it is not
specially designed to provide payments
to the assured except at death. That is
not to say that surrender values of
whole-life policies are not liberal. In a
good office, as a matter of fact, surrender
values, after a policy has been a good
many years in force, are surprisingly
high. .
Almost without exception single
women can be advised to take out an
endowment assurance policy. With no
dependants, as a rule, they will find an
endowment policy an excellent form of
compulsory saving—compulsory inas-
much as the policy is liable to lapse if
they don’t keep their payments up. Their
aim is to provide for themselves —for a
trip, for a home, for an investment, for
capital or income in their old-age. A
widow with children, of course, may,
as a breadwinner, want to provide for
her family in the event of untimely death
by taking out a whole-life policy, the
same as in the case of a husband.
As regards children, assurances can be
taken out on the lives of the youngsters
themselves when they are over a certain
age. This is a sound practice where the
idea is to obtain a low premium for a
boy or girl on a policy which they are
expected to keep in force after they
come of age.
On the other hand, where the' idea is to
provide an endowment for the child at
the age of education, marriage or enter-
ing business it is advisable to consider
taking out the policy on the life of the
parent; if the parent’s life is lost, the
endowment matures when it is wanted
most, and if the parent survives to the
endowment date the policy is paid as
originally intended.
Policies
Australia’s oldest and largest life
assurance office is the A.M.P. It has
pioneered many types of life assurance
in this country, and it has a great
variety of policies to offer. All life
policies, however, have this in common:
apart from annuities, they aim to pro-
vide a sum or sums of money after the
death of the assured or upon his reach-
ing a certain age. Most variations of
policies arise round the point of how
premiums are paid to the life office and
how the sum assured is paid by the
society.
The whole-life contract provides the
greatest amount of assurance at death
in return for the policy-holder’s outlay.
If taken out early in life for a reasonably
large amount it represents an excellent
purchase in life assurance. And should
it be found, at some later date, that
continuity of protection isn’t required
(through death or independence of
former dependants, for instance), the
existing policy may generally be con-
verted into an endowment assurance on
favorable terms, without medical ex-
amination.
In addition to general family protec-
tion, whole-life assurance is also suitable
for providing for probate, estate and
succession duties. The policy gives the
most effective and economical means for
meeting this liability—a charge that can-
not be avoided. Business and partnership
assurance may also be arranged with a
whole-life policy.
The A.M.P. explains its group assur-
ance scheme as follows:
A number of individuals, men or women or
both, employed by the same person or firm
may become a “group” for life assurance pur-
poses. The group is a means of obtaining life
assurance on terms within the easy reach of
anyone.
The form of policy is selected by each group
member to suit himself or herself.
Premiums are usually calculated on a yearly
basis, but are payable in easy fortnightly, semi-
monthly or monthly instalments, as may be
arranged.
The instalments are deducted from the
periodical “pay,” and remitted in bulk to the
A.M.P. Society.
Advantages: — . . .
1. the premiums are paid in easy instal-
ments, the group member can effect a larger
assurance without feeling the outlay. He
saves and invests in the easiest possible way,
yet with complete security.
2. Dependants have protection, to the full face
value of the policy, as soon as the assurance
■ is completed. ... •.
3. A separate policy is issued to each indi-
vidual group member.
4. For assurances up to £5OO on the one life
(not over 50 years of age) a personal state-
ment of health is usually sufficient. (A medi-
' cal examination may be required in special
cases.)
5. Same privileges, options and rights apply as
other Ordinary Department policies.
6. Bonuses are allotted on the same scale
as to other Ordinary Department policies
effected under the same table.
7. Holders of existing policies may arrange to
take advantage of the system and pay future
premiums in easy instalments through the
group.
8. Should a member leave one group he (or
she) may transfer the policy to another
A.M.P. group (if there be one) in the new
employ; or may continue the assurance as
an ordinary policy-holder at the usual annual,
half-yearly or quarterly premiums.
Group assurance, which may be de-
scribed as buying assurance on a weekly
ticket at a yearly rate, is truly one of
the worth-while recent developments in
life assurance. Generally its advantages
have been restricted to the cities or large
country towns ; now the A.M.P. is en-
deavoring to push the system into the
rural areas —through the medium of dairy
factories. In the society’s own words,
addressed to the dairy-farmer:
Your wife and children would have a hard
struggle if you were to die suddenly. Without
your help, your knowledge, your practical
experience, they would be heavily handicapped.
That handicap would be still more heavy if
the farm were mortgaged. Whether you live
or die interest must be met, and day by day
the time draws nearer when the principal must
be repaid. The hazarding of family and farm
on the probability of living and keeping in
health until the mortgage is paid off is the
biggest gamble in farming.
Yet this risk can be offset through life assur-
ance. Life assurance establishes at once an
estate payable (and payable in cash) on the
death of the assured, whenever that may happen.
It thus provides for the redemption of a mort-
gage or the support of a family, or both.
The A.M.P. Society is arranging with dairy
factories throughout Australia and Maoriland
to establish group schemes to give dairy-farmers
life assurance on specially advantageous terms.
Under these methods a farmer can have the
premiums on his life assurance deducted
monthly from his cream cheque and remitted to
the society. This saves the farmer time and
trouble and secures that the assurance is kept
in force. ■ , ,
The premium is charged at the yearly rate,
though payable in monthly instalments; thus
the farmer obtains the greatest amount ot hte
assurance protection for a given outlay.
The full advantages of A.M.P. policy con-
ditions and annual bonuses attach to policies
so effected. The usual benefits of cash sur-
render, loan and paid-up policy values and the
protection of the automatic operation ot the
non-forfeiture principle also apply.
Not only does the A.M.P. write whole-
life business through these groups, but
it will also transact endowment assur-
ances, children’s assurances, etc.
•F *F *F
A London insurance (and assurance)
magazine last year made the following
comment:
Young bachelors are frequently reluctant to
effect life assurance until they are contemplat-
ing marriage as they realise that the policy
most attractive to a single man will not give
the most suitable protection for a married man.
For instance, to a young man of 22 years or
age a 20-year with-profit endowment assur-
ance is a desirable proposition as an invest-
ment. When he marries at, perhaps, age 30
however, the investment angle is unimportant!
and his main idea is, or ought to be, to secure


YESTERDAY
TO-DAY
TO-MORROW
Sound, Safe and Substantial Life
Assurance Service was, is, and
always will be given by
THE COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED
Branches in all States, and in New Zealand, South Africa
and Great Britain.
C. B. Hearn, F.C.1.5., General Manager.
e
adequate protection for his wife and any chil-
dren with which they may subsequently be
blessed. Yet, the sooner life assurance is
effected the better bargain does it prove to be,
and, moreover, no man knows when he will
cease to be an insurable “life.”
To solve these problems, the National
Mutual Life of Australasia has designed
its new “unique option” policy for the
single man. Under this scheme a young
man of 22 takes out his 20-year endow-
ment assurance, paying £lO per annum
for a sum assured of £216, plus bonuses.
At age 30, say, he marries ; then, with-
out medical examination or other evi-
dence of health, he has the choice of a
longer-term endowment assurance or a
whole-life policy, continuing to pay the
same premium but securing a larger sum
assured by the change-over.
Possibly he will select a whole-life
policy, with premiums ceasing at age 60,
in which case the sum assured would be
£472, plus bonuses. Another important
point is that on exercising an option the
existing bonus additions are increased to
an extent at least in proportion to the
increase in the amount assured. If, of
course, the young man does not marry,
his 20-year endowment is probably just
the policy he wants, and the option privi-
lege has cost him nothing, as he is merely
paying the normal rate of premium.
“Unique option” policies are issued to
single men between the ages of 15 and 35,
and the options may be exercised within
the period of three months following mar-
riage before age 40. Although the pros-
pectus is based on an initial 20-year en-
dowment assurance, figures will be sup-
plied by the association for any other
term. The scheme is undoubtedly attrac-
tive, and it is proving to be one of the
association’s “best-sellers.”
4* 4* *
One of the most progressive and at
the same time one of the most conser-
vative offices in Australia is the Mutual
Life and Citizens’. It has been doing
an increasing amount of business each
year in both its Ordinary and Industrial
branches, and in writing that business it
has found the chief demand still in the
shape of whole-life and endowment as-
surances.
But the office isn’t hidebound by any
means. Few are more alert in the search
for forms and adaptations of life policies
that may meet a potential or actual
demand. For this purpose the M.L.C.
has a very competent actuarial staff, and
actuaries are the gentlemen who can tell
life-assurance salesmen what types of
policies can be safely and confidently
offered to the public. Few offices have so
much actuarial knowledge at their dis-
posal as the M.L.C.
Two policies that the M.L.C. has
pioneered in Australia are termed its
“BA” and “BY” contracts. Taking the
“BA” policy first, the office has estimated
that with bonuses accumulating at recent
rates a man of 30 next birthday, by pay-
ing £4O 13s. 3d. a year (15s. Bd. weekly),
may obtain £5 a week for life at age 65
onwards.
Actually, bonuses may be greater or
less over the period, but they promise to
be satisfactory, in spite of the periodical
uncertainties that arise during a man’s
lifetime. If the assured prefers a lump
sum instead of income, he may take
£1431, plus bonuses, estimated on the
basis mentioned to bring it up to £2766 ;
he has the third option of taking the
income for a definite number of years
instead of a life annuity—£ll Bs. 9d. a
week for five years, £6 2s. lOd. for 10
years, or £3 10s. 2d. for 20 years. In
the event of this third option being exer-
cised, the income is paid for the full
period chosen, irrespective of whether
the assured dies or lives for the stipu-
lated time covered by the payments. The
sum assured and accumulated bonuses
are paid in full if the assured dies before
the endowment age is reached.
Should the assured survive to 65 he
has the annuity, lump-sum or stipulated-
instalment options mentioned ; and if he
elects to take the annuity he is guaran-
teed £9 Bs, a year (payable quarterly) for
every £lOO of the maturity value (sum
assured, plus bonuses).
The “BA” is a type of policy that
should appeal particularly to young men,
and is a very adaptable type.
Under the M.L.C.’s “BY” plan a sum
is payable at death before reaching a
selected age, and double the sum if the
assured survives to the selected age.
Bonuses are paid in full in either event.
It is a double-endowment type.
The M.L.C. by the end of 1938 had
paid policy-holders or their beneficiaries
nearly £37,000,000. Its assets have grown
to £28,225,000. In the words of the
chairman:
A greater proportion of the assets than usual
is held in first-class mortgages. This section
of our investing has been on the increase in
recent years, and so carefully have we selected
our loans that the outstanding interest at
balancing time was £3421 only—a figure substan-
tially less than it was a year ago. We have
written off the whole of this amount, even
though we expect to recover it in full. Advances
have been made extensively to home-purchasers
and home-builders, so helping all trades, and
to those engaged in our primary industries, to
Governments and to municipalities. Our
advances to co-operative building societies under
Government guarantees, which we began to
make last year, reached a total of £1,216,937
at the close of accounts. This is a form of
lending which is very pleasing, inasmuch as it
is not only valuable as an outlet for our funds,
but helps to settle people in their own homes.
We estimate that by the end of the year we
had helped about 1500 people to acquire their
own homes, and our commitments are such
that, by the time all the money already allocated
for the purpose has been spent, the number
will be increased to 3000.
These lending operations illustrate the im-
portance to the community of the accumulation
of the comparatively small payments of life
assurance premiums. They form a reservoir
which is immediately put to use in financing
development in various directions. The funds
of the company are largely utilised by being
safely lent to those who can employ them well
and return them in due course for a repetition
of the same form of usefulness. Only the
cash that is needed for everyday transactions
remains uninvested in this way.
The everyday outflow of moneys applied in
settlement of claims under policies which have
become due for payment is, of course, the
principal way in which the resources of the
company serve the community. Prompt pay-
ment of claims has been the company’s practice
from its earliest days. There is no form of
property which is so peculiarly adapted to the
emergency when the breadwinner dies as that
provided by life assurance. It is realisable
at once and for its full face value. It serves
many purposes because of this feature, and in
particular is on call for the payment of death
duties. It can also, of course, be utilised for
the provision of retirement incomes.
Certainly, many and varied are the ser-
vices of life offices to the community.
They are being called on to an increasing
extent to compulsorily subscribe to Gov-
ernment loans.
*i* •J 4
The T. and G. (Australasian Temper-
ance and General), now 63 years old,
has had a lot to do with the making of
Australians and Maorilanders “assurance-
minded.” With a large business in both
its Ordinary and Industrial sections, it
has adopted new tables of popularity
and usefulness. There are over 1,000,000
policies on the books, and the sum
assured, with bonus additions, is nearly
£100,000,000 —representing a great varia-
tion of life and endowment assurances
and annuities. Policy-holders’ security is


Of , e 'i tAe
MILLION
MARK
★ 1,000,000
m
1,041,646
T&G Policies are Providing
£85,092,107 of Life Assurance
YOUR SECURITY FOR THE FUTURE
1 & U
P 0 11 0 Y
the T&G Mutual Life Society
(Incorporated in Victoria)
Representatives Throughout Australia and New Zealand,
represented by a long record of Austra-
lian assurance experience and a policy
of conservative investment.
The T. and G. has made greatest pro-
gress in the last 25 years. New types of
adaptable assurance policies have helped
to popularise life assurance in that period,
and to-day a life policy is the most
common type of investment in Austra-
lasia, except, perhaps, savings bank de-
posits.
The T. and G.’s family income policy,
a popular table, combines life assurance
with a guaranteed income to the bene-
ficiary if death occurs in a selected
period. This form of policy provides, if
death occurs in the selected period:
(1) An immediate cash payment with
all accumulated bonuses.
(2) An income increased by a share of
the interest earned by the society in ex-
cess of a certain percentage, payable by
equal monthly instalments for the unex-
pired portion of the selected term.
(3) The capital sum assured when the
monthly income ceases.
The payment of a small additional pre-
mium doubles the death benefit in event
of death by accident, and on satisfac-
tory proof of total disablement before
age 65 all future premiums will be
waived.
Educational policies that provide the
necessary school fees at the most useful
ages, with the proviso that all future pre-
miums cease at the death of the parent,
are another feature of the T. and G.’s
policy-writing.
It has been able, through the co-opera-
tion of employers, to give employees of
firms assurance by small instalments at
economical rates.
To help its policy-holders secure their
own homes by instalments practically
equivalent to a rental, and at the same
time protect the family by assurance
covering the balance due on the property
in event of the death of the head of the
family, the T. and G. has a home-pur-
chase scheme that is meeting with
popularity, and which is of benefit to the
society’s interest earnings.
The T. and G. has always placed great
publicity and income value on its up-
to-date office premises. Extensions to
the head office building in Melbourne,
over the whole of the site until two
years ago occupied by Anzac House, have
now been completed.
The new work commenced on June
21, 1938, and in less than 13 months the
new building, dimensions of which are
60ft. by 147 ft. deep, has been rounded
off from a depth of two storeys below
the pavement to the signal light on the
top of the flagpole, which is 245 ft. above
the corner of Russell and Collins streets.
The work not only included the build-
ing of this new structure, but also
the extraordinarily difficult work of con-
necting the new building to the old. Air-
conditioning is one of the many features
of this modern structure.
Externally, the building has a finely-
chiselled granite ground storey, and above
that point the design conforms to the
building of which it forms an addition,
and is finisfied in cream-colored paint
on cement mortar dressings.
The main entrance walls are of Aus-
tralian marble, and in the entrance hall
the mural panel expressing “Thrift” has
been re-hung. The new tower will be
completely floodlit at night time, as will
also be the extended fa?ade of the build-
ing.
4* 4* 4 1
The constitution of the City Mutual,
formed in 1879, is the purely mutual one
under which the policy-holders elect the
directors, and under which all surplus
or profits, after making provision for
liabilities and contingencies, is handed
back to the policy-holders in the form of
annual bonus additions to their policies.
The sixtieth balance sheet of the
society records that last year £203,033
was paid in death claims, but the original
sum assured under the policies which be-
came death claims was only £148,330, so
to the dependants of deceased members
City Mutual bonuses meant an addi-
tional £54,703.
Similar additions were made to the
amounts payable to policy-holders whose
endowment policies fell due; here the
original sums assured were £157,860, but
bonuses of £70,248 brought the amount
actuallv paid up to £228,108.
Some of the City Mutual members
whose policies matured by death or
effluxion of time had previously drawn
portion of their bonuses, so the cash
benefits of City Mutual bonuses were
greater than the final payment on this
account, and, as the bonuses increase sur-
render values, loan values and paid-up-
policy values, the members have reason
to be pleased with the investment policy
which has contributed largely to the big
bonus record of the City Mutual.
That investment policy has shown
some changes in recent years, and a
review of the assets of the society indi-
cates that the aim of the manage-
ment is to spread its investments °y er
the full range of first-class securities.
With the necessity of supporting Aus-
tralia’s defence programme, the propor-
tion of the funds invested in Government
securities will tend to increase, but the
preponderance of high-interest-bearing
securities is marked, so the return on in-
vestments, and concomitantly the amount
available for bonuses, should remain
satisfactory.
City Mutual policies contain all the
liberal conditions usually given to the
members of Australian mutual life offices,
and carry certain accident benefits with-
out extra premium ; but it is noticeable
that City Mutual policies omit any refer-
ence to aviation ; in other words, its poli-
cies grant cover to death in any type of
aeroplane. Thus the City Mutual regards
air travel as a normal part of modern life,
and for that reason this society must
make a strong appeal to those who be-
lieve that aviation is very important in
the development and defence of Aus-
tralia.
For educational purposes most parents
would like to be able to look far enough
ahead and be certain that they will have
a fund to provide the fees necessary for
a finishing course for a son or a daugh-
ter, or for a university course to fit either
or both of them for a career in life.
By an endowment contract payable at
the end of a selected term of years the
Australian Metropolitan Life makes the
creation of sudh a fund possible.
It can best be described as saving for
a definite purpose —a purpose that is near
to the heart of most parents.
These contracts are issued to parents
of from 25 to 50 years of age, and the
annual saving necessary varies slightly
with the age of the parent.
A father, aged between 25 and 29, by
the payment of £6 13s. a year, secures
for his child the sum of £lOO, plus a
guaranteed bonus of £1 p.c. per annum
at the end of 15 years —with the valuable
provision that, should the parent die
within the 15 years, no further premium
payments will be required, but the
original amount of the endowment will
still be payable in the event of the child’s
survival to the maturity date.
Should the child die within the 15-
year period all premiums paid will be
refunded without any deduction. Endow-
ments for longer or shorter terms can
be selected.
If it is so desired by the parent, the
payment of the endowment could be
spread over a term of four or five years,
and any amount remaining in the hands
of the company during those years would
be increased by interest at the rate
assumed by the Metropolitan Life in its
actuarial valuation.
•i* "i* *i*
Life Offices Reviewed
The A.M.P. —With beginnings as far
back as 1848, the Australian Mutual
Provident Society ranks not only as the
oldest life office in the Commonwealth,
but also as the largest wholly-mutual in-
stitution in the Empire. Results achieved
for and sympathetic treatment of policy-
holders have deservedly brought the office
a world-wide reputation—fine testimony
to the calibre of the management
throughout its 90 years’ life and to the
solidness of the structure on which Aus-
tralian assurance has been built.
Despite international tension and
lower export prices and a dry spell in
the Commonwealth, new business put on
the books last year at £29,104,683 was
the second-largest in the society’s history,
and only £2,623,017 short of the previous
term’s record; it increased business
in force, including bonus additions, at
the end of 1938 to £356,218,289—ab0ut
a quarter of the size of the Common-
wealth and States public debt. The
year’s income reached the huge figure
of £14,849,791, which is approximately
the combined paid-up capitals of the
C.S.R., A.C.I. and United Insurance.
In total, bonus additions to policies,
the testing-stone of a life office, attained
a new high level: —*
BONUSES DECLARED.
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1920 . £1,324,193 £39,834 £1,364,027
1929 . 2,941,005 211,584 3,152,589
1931 2,468,817 233,998 2,702,815
1933 2,566,322 276,776 2,843,098
1934' . 2,674,409 288,312 2,962,721
1935 2,746,567 297,574 3,044,141
1936 . 2,837,798 310.646 3,148,444
1937 2,944,883 327,885 3,272,768
1938!.' 3,094,348 350,516 3,444,864
Including £34,727 paid in interim
bonuses, the O.D. distribution works out
at 43.5 p.c. of premiums received on


THE
MUTUAL LIFE
AND CITIZENS’
ASSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
Founded 1886.
The M.L.C. declared increased rates
of Bonuses to Ordinary Branch
Policies for the year 1934, further
increased rates for 1935, and main-
tained the latter rates for 1936, 1937
and 1938.
'•f' : i !
EXAMPLES: Whole-of-life policy, age 25 at entry:
Reversionary Bonus for first year £2/5/-
p.c., increasing to £4/2/- p.c. for the 30th
vear.
Endowment Assurance maturing at age 60,
age 25 at entry: Reversionary Bonus for
first year £l/18/- p.c., increasing to £3/2/-
p.c. for the 30th year.
REASONS
why these results are achieved:
1. The Company’s powerful reserves and the assets
covering them are unsurpassed for strength
in Australia. 70 p.c. of the assets of over
£28,000,000 consists of Government, Muni-
cipal and Local Body Loans and Loans on
Policies.
2. The mortality experienced, due to careful selec-
tion of risks, is extraordinary light.
3. The Company is managed efficiently, and always
has been. Last year the Ordinary Branch
expense rate was 10 p.c. of the total
income.
4. The rate of interest earned on the Ordinary
Branch funds and reserves is 5 p.c. As the
rate assumed in valuing the liabilities is
2f p.c., there is a margin of 2$ p.c. for
profit.
Annual Income exceeds £4,300,000
Payments to Policyholders exceed
£37,000,000
ARTHUR M. EEDY, C.8.E.,
Managing Director .
A. G. COPELAND,
General Secretary .
HEAD OFFICE:
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
participating policies, as against 42.5 p.c.
in the preceding term. Impressive figures.
Actual rates were: On whole-life con-
tracts one year old, 40s. p.c., increasing
to 725. p.c. on those 30 years in force,
and on endowments (same age at entry
and duration) maturing age 60, from 345.
to 625. p.c. Source of the attractive rates
is seen in the economical expense rate
(deducting taxes, now 13.5 p.c. of net
premiums), a mortality experience lately
only 52 p.c. of expectation, and the solid
interest return —£4 9s. 6d. net on the
mean fund, as against the 3 p.c.
budgeted for by the actuary.
Seven months ago policy-holders could
see visibly £117,009,000 of protection:
1937. ip.c. 1938. p.c.
Public securities. £05,285,147 58.3 £68,623,307 58.6
Mortgages . . 20,228,904 23.4 27,997,864 23.9
Loans on policies 16,309,061 14.6 16,234,626 13.9
Premises .. .. 2,002,939 1.8 2,095,872 1.8
Other assets .. 2,211,096 1.9 2,057,588 1.8
The important part the office plays in
national finance is obvious from those
figures, the office being the largest in-
dividual bondholder in the Common-
wealth.
4* •5 1
National Mutual Life. —Ranking in
the Commonwealth only after the big
A.M.P. in point of size, the National,
also an entirely mutual office, claims the
enterprise of having been the first life
office in the world to introduce the non-
forfeiture principle into policy-writing.
Only Ordinary business, the most profit-
able type of cover to assurer, is trans-
acted, policy-holders being spread
throughout Australasia, Gt. Britain,
Canada and other red-shaded portions
of the globe as well.
The office enjoys a reputation for low
premium rates combined with very satis-
factory bonuses. Contracts popularly
appreciated are its group, family-income
and house-purchase policies, and a re-
cent innovation, the “unique option”
clause in endowments, whereby a young
fellow taking out cover and subsequently
marrying before the age of 40 is enabled
to increase the amount and duration of
his policy without any increase in annual
premiums, represents a serviceable addi-
tion to the association’s offering.
Ten months ago there were policies
current assuring £111,027,800, while
annual income had reached £5,944,000.
There were then £4 6\ millions of funds
belonging to policy-holders:
1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
Freeholds .. ..£1,759,048 4.0 £1,780,142 3.8
Public securities .. 21,532,651 48.3 23,324,590 50.4
Mortgages .. .. 9,024,383 21.6 10,018,212 21.7
Foreclosures .. 404,208 0.9 325,034 0.7
Loans on policies.. 5,470,994 12.3 5,387,818 11.6
Other assets .. 5,748,825 12.9 5,438,753 11.8
Greater part of last term’s additions to
public securities comprised purchases on
the London market, where the board is
obviously doing good work in supporting
Australian credit. The mortgage item
largely represents home-purchase loans
protected by life assurance.
Whereas the office assumes a rate of
interest-earning on its Life fund of 3
p.c., last term’s net return ran out at
£4 3s. 3d. p.c., so there is a comfortable
margin here of 235. 3d. p.c. for bonuses,
etc.
And, talking of bonuses, this is how
total distributions have behaved over the
last half-dozen triennial valuations by
the actuary:
Assurance Net Triennial Bonuses
S'ept., Fund, Liability. Surplus. Declared.
1922 £16,557,695 £14,882,160 £1,705,499 £1,455,499
1925 22,607,250 21,021,102 2,509,493 2,118,974
1928 29,147,330 28,011,304 3,431,655 3,013,518
1931 34,558,434 32,898,077 4,160,430 3,577,833
1934 37,851,007 36,409,354 3,423,419 3,053,074
1937 42,794,134 41,441,898 3,631,835 3,362,423
For 1937 distributions on whole-life
assurances five years in force ranged
from 445. p.c. to 625. p.c. on those 30
years old or more. There has been some
slight reduction in the rates with the
“easy-money” conditions of recent years,
but any further fall is unlikely. Indeed,
with the strengthening of interest rates
now apparent, an opposite trend is prob-
able.
Other bright spots in the outlook are
continued efficient handling of the busi-
ness—excluding taxes, exes, cost only
14.3 p.c. of net premiums last year—and
a death-claim experience averaging only
53 p.c. of expectation.
4* •!■ *£•
Mutual Life and Citizens’. The
M.L.C. is one of our most enterprising
and progressive semi-mutual offices.
Share capital is now a round £1,000,000,
of which £BOO,OOO has recently been
transferred from shareholders’ (as distinct
from policy-holders’) reserves, which
have been built up over a long period
of years.
By anchoring the £BOO,OOO as additional
capital, thus preventing any possibility
of the money going out of the business
by way of cash dividends, the capitalisa-
tions strengthen the protection for policy
contracts without giving shareholders any
bigger proportionate equity in profits.
The co. assumes the reserves it has
set up against policy liabilities will turn
in only 2\ p.c. in the O.D. and 2\ p.c.
in the 1.D., the most stringent bases of
valuation yet adopted in the Common-
wealth. The effective rates earned in
1938 were £4 15s. Id. p.c. and £4 13s. 6d.
p.c. Combined with the expense rate —
14.25 p.c. as against 14.82 p.c. in ’37,
notwithstanding that the co. was one of
the few life offices in the Empire to
record increased new business figures—
it gives the long view a healthy look.
These things and the favorable mor-
tality experience show up in the follow-
ing comparison of annual actuarial sur-
pluses : —-
1 Q9O IQS S * 1Q37 IQOO
Ordinary .. £692,946 £671,296 £789,433 £849,680
Industrial .. 76,730 96,203 102,594 115,459
Total .. £769,676 £767,499 £892,027 £965,139
On whole-life O.D. contracts the latest
surplus enabled disbursement of bonus
additions of £2 ss. p.c. on policies one
year in force, rising to a highly attractive
£5 4s. p.c. on those 45 years old.
The high interest return, considering
that 63.8 p.c. of the assets is represented
by public securities, suggests that book
value can stand considerable stretching:
1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
Public securities. £19,308,763 71.8 £18,001,380 63.8
Mortgages . . 4,399,456 16.4 6,541,585 23.2
Loans on policies 1,793,750 6.7 1,824,606 6.4
Cash, book debts,
etc 510,561 1.9 592,389 2.1
Property .. . . 275,610 1.0 >698,976 2.5
Other assets . . 586,806 2.2 566,068 2.0
£26,874,946 £28,225,004
Liabilities* .. 1,649,578 1,119,576
Net assets ..£25,225,368 £27,105,428
* Other than under policies.
It’ is the existence of these inner reserves
that has made the strong bases of
actuarial valuation possible. Growth in
the freehold item reflects completion of
fine new premises with plenty of letting
space at Sydney head office, and in Mel-
bourne and Wellington (M.L.). The ex-
tra attention being given to mortgages
is largely by advances to building
societies under Government guarantee,
and so practically “gilt-edged.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
The T. and G. — Those are the initials
by which the Australasian Temperance
and General is more popularly known
in Australia and Maoriland, where it has
been writing policies for the last 62
years or so. Approximately half the
business written consists of Industrial
risks. There is also a vigorous Accident
section, and, being a purely mutual
office, any profits from this source are
available for the benefit of policy-
holders in the Life departments.
Well to the fore with the latest in
policies, the society has recorded stout
headway of recent years. Particularly
encouraging is the wary eye being kept
upon expenses. The ratio to net premium
income last term showed a heartening
fall from 18.2 p.c. to 16.5 p.c. in the
0.D., after allowing for the taxgatherer’s
whack; corresponding I.D. figure ran
out at 33.6 p.c., as against 34.3 p.c. in ’37.
These figures partly account for the
sharp spring of £97,993 last term in the
net actuarial surplus:—■
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Net surplus:—•
Ordinary .. £437,176 £465,129 £469,895£535,511
Industrial .. 317,199 344,972 378,174 410,551
Total .. £754,375 £BlO,lOl £848,069 £946,062
After earmarking £25,000 in each depart-
ment for contingencies and providing for
interim bonuses, etc., the balance was to
be distributed in reversionary bonuses.
In 1936 the O.D. rate on whole-life poli-
cies, temperance section, ranged from
465. p.c. on one-year-old contracts to 745.
p.c. on those 25 years old or more.
The society can now show £30,321,757
of solid revenue-producing assets to back
policy contracts:
Public 1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
securities ..£17,387,605 62.2 £17,882,793 59.0
Loans .. .. 7,809,523 27.9 9,430,332 31.1
Freeholds . . 2,322,203 8.3 2,547,028 8.4
Cash, book debts,
etc 451,656 1.6 461,604 1.5
The lift in loans partly reflects advances
under Government guarantee to co-opera-
tive building societies. The office has long
realised the advertising value—and profit,
too, in ordinary times—of attractive
premises in all capital cities, a conclusion
most of the society’s competitors have
lately arrived at.
On its Life funds the office looks for a
uniform 3 p.c. return. On all funds last
year £4 6s. p.c. was netted, suggesting
there is considerable undisclosed muscle
in the book value of the assets.
4*
City Mutual Life. — This is the
youngest of Australia’s five big purely
mutual offices, having had merely a bare
60 years’ experience catering for assur-
ance needs. At the 30-year mark in 1909
premium income was a modest £72,182;
last term the figure was over 12 times
greater at £866,603 ; and progress in all
matters making for strength in a life
office has accompanied the expansion in
policy-writing.
Like the National Mutual, the City
Mutual conducts no Industrial branch,


w
MAKE THE
ADMINISTRATION
OF YOUR ESTATE
OUR
RESPONSIBILITY,
NOT YOUR
FRIENDS’.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Edward F. Mitchell, K.C.M.G.,
K.C., Chairman.
Sir Stephen Morell, K. 8., Vice-
Chairman.
Sir Alan Currie, K. 8., M.L.C.
E. F. Herring, Esq., K.C.
Allan Spowers, Esq.
F. R. WOOD, Manager.
ROBERT MONEY, Asst. Manager.
The EQUITY TRUSTEES
COMPANY
t lncorporated in Victoria .)
472 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE
MI&OMA-
PAY TO THE ACCOUNT OF
It may be to some person or corporation in England,
America, Egypt almost any country, and, within
a strictly limited time. Because of its world-wide
organization and facilities, its reliability and experience
in these matters, the National Bank is in a position to
render real and definite assistance to anyone wishing
to expedite the transfer of money by cable or mail.
In addition, the Bank will arrange for drafts —payable
in sterling or in foreign currencies, payable at any
town of commercial importance in the world. A
cordial invitation to discuss these matters with the
Bank’s Officers is extended to everyone.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited ( Incorporated, in Victoria)
63-16-39.
specialising in simply-worded, straight-
forward whole-life and endowment con-
tracts, the most profitable types of cover
for the assurer. Unlike the National and
some other Australian institutions, the
society confines its activities to the Com-
monwealth. Young men’s business is
especially sought; and life assurance is
one thing where a young man, if he would
realise it, can drive a much harder bar-
gain than an old.
The office has cause for pride in its
bonus rates, which at present start at
£2 10s. p.c., rising to £4 ss. p.c. after 45
years, on whole-life contracts and range
from £1 17s. 6d. to £3 12s. p.c. over the
same period on endowments.
Source of the attractive rates is seen
partly in the high interest return —5.08
p.c. net on the mean life fund last term,
as against 4.94 p.c. in ’37. Assumed
basis of interest-expectation is only 3.25
p.c. Income from property has long been
a scoring-point, though, following the ex-
perience of the slump, when moratorium
legislation rendered some of the mort-
gage investments nugatory —for a while,
at any rate —Government securities,
which guarantee more regularity of in-
come, now figure more largely in the
investment portfolio.
Thus, in 1928, 57.7 p.c. of the protec-
tion for policy-holders was represented
by mortgages and 16.1 p.c. by Consols.
The proportions had changed to 33.9
p.c. and 22.7 p.c. respectively at last
balance:
1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
Govt, securities.. £2,188,110 23.2 £2,278,602 22.7
Mortgages, etc... 3,127,466 33.1 3,402,139 33.9
Loans on policies 1,223,502 12.9 1,193,670 11.9
Properties.. .. 1,970,400 20.9' 2,116,504 21.1
Shares and
debentures, etc. 764,890 8.1 855,350 8.6
Cash and sundries 168,734 1.8 180,884 1.8
Besides giving a net yield well in keeping
with the rest of the funds, the co.’s attrac-
tive new Sydney head office is proving a
sound advertising medium to boot.
Economical management is seen in the
expense rate —deducting taxes, etc., 16.4
p.c. of net premiums in 1938, and the
figure is being gradually hauled back.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Colonial Mutual. The 75-year-old
Colonial is another purely mutual in-
stitution, writing both Ordinary and In-
dustrial assurances and garnering its
premiums throughout the Common-
wealth, Maoriland, South Africa and the
United Kingdom.
Welcome features of the society’s pros-
pectus are its group (a line which the
office pioneered) and house-purchase con-
tracts. In the 1.D., nursing welfare has
proved a much-appreciated service to
policy-holders, and there is a growing
and prosperous Accident department,
profits from which are available to
strengthen policy-holders’ protection in
the Life sections.
Marked expansion of business-writing
has characterised recent operations, and
total income last term reached a new high
of £4,673,227. The bigger business has
been handled at reduced proportionate
cost, too, O.D. exes., less taxes, in 1938
absorbing 17 p.c. of the year’s net pre-
miums, as against 22.7 p.c. three years
earlier. On the same basis, tbe I.D.
expense rate was also down at 31.6 p.c.
Savings following recent overhaul of the
business have been partly responsible.
The margin between funds and policy
liabilities) continues to show heartening
expansion:
1936. 1937. 1938.
Ordinary .. .. £400,416 £539,648 £628,630
Industrial .. .. 95,971 122,270 146,783
Accident • ■ • • 33,214 41,873 35,848
Total £579,601 £703,791 £811,261
Of the £628,630 available in the 0.D.,
£518,924 was distributed for 1938 in re-
versionary bonuses on a slightly-increased
scale, while in the I.D. £93,860 was so
disbursed. A scoring-point with the
office has been its low mortality experi-
ence.
The investment portfolio totals
£23,781,000-odd, spread as follows:
Public securities 1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
and debentures. £11,029,301 50.8 £12,211,008 51.3
Morto-affes .. 5,482,865 25.2 5,912,512 24.9
Freeholds, etc... 2,685,371 12.3 2,826,081 11.9
Loans on policies 1,619,163 7.4 1,706,034 7.2
Premiums and in- „
terest outstanding 272,883 1.2 290,842 1.2
Cash and deposits 438,759 2.2 622,642 2.6
Other assets .. 193,864 0.9 211,898 0.9
There has been little change in the in-
vestment policy for some years now. On
the assurance funds alone a net 3 p.c.
return is looked for; actual rate cleared
on all funds combined last year was 4.2
p.c. Obviously there is a comfortable
margin here for bonuses, etc.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Metropolitan Life. —The co-opera-
tive Metropolitan, a sound, regular
bonus-paying institution of 43 years’
standing, gathers its premiums in the
three Eastern States of the Common-
wealth and in South Aus., writing both
Ordinary and Industrial business.
Outstanding feature over the last de-
cade has been rigid control of outgoings,
the Ordinary expense rate (less dividends
and taxes) having been cut from 25.7
p.c. of net premiums in 1929 to 18.7 p.c.
last term. With the strengthening of the
basis of actuarial valuation to 3 p.c.,
bringing it in line with most of the bigger
life offices, it all augurs well for future
bonus-paying capacity, particularly as
the margin of interest actually earned-7
4.58 p.c. on the mean assurance funds in
1938—over the rate assumed has lately
tended to widen a trifle.
In the O.D. 90 p.c. of divisible actuarial
surpluses belong to policy-holders, whose
interests are thus well preserved, and 10
p.c. to shareholders. Total surpluses at
the last three triennial valuations have
grown this way:
Ordinary. Industrial. Total.
1931 .. .. £25,779 £19,700 £45,479
1934 .. .. 28,543 19,747 48,290
1937 .. .. 36,910 13,242 50,102
Out of *37 Ordinary surplus, bonus addi-
tions to policies ranged from 30s. p.c. to
40s. p.c. on both whole-life and endow-
ments. Reduction of the amount avail-
able in the I.D. reflects stiffening of
the rate of assumed interest-earning here
to 3i p.c., thus widening the protection
for policy-holders.
The funds, a solid lot —and conserva-
tively valued, too, if the high interest
return is any indication —were in this
form at last accounting:
1937. p.c. 1938. p.c.
Freeholds, etc. .. £253,415 14.3 £252,881 13.1
Govt, securities.. 1,041,736 58.9 1,189,735 61.9
Shares other cos. 21,345 1.2 24,764 1.3
Mortgages .. 282,445 16.0 271,959 14.1
Loans on policies 111,423 6.3 118,448 6.2
Book debts .. 50,608 2.9 52,604 2.7
Cash .. .. 6,189 0.4 13,187 0.7
The Life funds, at £1,759,528, are in
themselves more than sufficient for the
purpose created ; in addition, there are
also £97,290 of specific reserves and
£50,000 of shajt’e capital to back liabili-
ties under policies.
*l*
Australasian Catholic. Each year
has added to the strength and stature of
this robust young office, and preliminary
figures for the term just closed indicate
further marked progress.
Formed in 1921, the co. is the only one
of the cluster of life offices that sprang
up after the war to pay regular (and
growing) bonuses to policy-holders and
divs. to shareholders, and that within a
decade of writing its first policy. It’s a
highly creditable performance, and fine
testimony to the long-sighted control of
managing director E. J. Mooney and the
discrimination exercised in the selection
of risks.
The actuary’s quinquennial overhaul
of the business to be presented this year
will be awaited with interest. Only then
are O.D. and I.D. figures publicly sepa-
rated. Allowing for taxes, overall ex-
pense rate for 1938 was 34.7 p.c. of pre-
mium income, which is distinctly prom-
ising, considering approximately three-
fourths of the business on the books com-
prises Industrial contracts.
From a bonus-paying viewpoint more
significant still is the manner in which the
cost figure is being progressively shaved
down. For 1938 the bonus distribution
was at the very satisfactory rate of
£2 15s. p.c. on whole of life (payable
in the first year) and £1 17s. p.c. on
endowments.
Interest is the office’s chief scoring-
point, a fine wad of investments, mainly
well-let premises (46 p.c.) and first
mortgages (41.4 p.c.), turning in 4.9 p.c.
net on the mean Life funds in 1938:
1935. 1936. 1937. 1938.
Capital .. £14,610 £14,610 £14,610 £14,610
Liabilities* .. 14,999 24,368 26,955 27,705
Mortgages .. 309,891 301,450 368,961 488,607
Govt, securities 131,408 67,544 67,544 67,544
Cash, etc. .. 13,506 8,036 9,894 2,921
Debtors ■■ 2,008 2,931 3,899 3,840
Loans policies 31,042 39,345 49,454 59,239
Equipment . . 4,668 5,526 8,050 9,882
Shares .. 3,388 3,437 3,437 3,407
Freeholds . . 206,488 402,162 476,765 542,899
* Other than under policies.
That was 1.4 p.c. up on the (for such a
young office) stringent 3i p.c. policy-
liability valuation adopted by the actuary.
The margin here, combined with what
look like a satisfactory expense rate and
a favorable mortality experience, spells
well for the future.
Third-party Car Policies
There are a hundred and one ways in
which an unsuspecting person may find
himself liable to pay damages because
of an accidental infringement of the
rights or welfare of some other person,
or because of damage done without in-
tent to person or property. In a number
of cases the possibility of liability is so
remote that insurance companies as a
whole haven’t bothered to offer to carry
such risks themselves in return for the
payment of a small premium. Thus we
never hear of a citizen insuring himself
against the possibility of his falling
against a shop window some day and


AN AUSTRALIAN OFFICE.
THE
i^sgyUNSi/fe
Company Limited
■ ' '.*oOot- '
Established 1849
(Incut punned in Victoria .)
FIRE
MARINE
ACCIDENT
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
HEAD OFFICE;
44-46 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE
<2
thJ
WIT H
f
h
£
€£3Sm2EM3MSII
Victorian Branch: Trustees Chambers, 401-3 Collins St., Melbourne, C.l.
Phone: M 3851 (3 lines). Incorporated in New South Wales.
You Must Face Life's Realities
Burglaries, Fires, Losses are within the
bounds of possibility. With a new home
and furnishings, gifts, jewellery, clothes on
your hands, you will find a “Transport
and General” Householders’ Comprehen-
sive Policy a gilt-edged protection. It
covers risks on both houses and contents,
and includes Compensation for death, too.
This Company, backed by efficient
resources, is known and respected for its
attractive premiums and extra value.
N. McLeod Johnston, Manager
THE trifling cost of coverage is nothing to be compared with the heavy
expenses that loss through Burglary, Fire, Third Party Claims, etc.,
could cause you.
Become a V.A.C.C. Policy-holder! First-rate propositions, include:
Householders’ Comprehensive; FULL COMPREHENSIVE FOR MOTORS
AND TRUCKS; Special Low Premium for Motorists, etc.
DETAILS GLADLY SUPPLIED.
Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce
Insurance Company, Limited.
357 Elizabeth St., Melbourne, C.l. ’Phone; MU6511 (5 lines).
T. C. Hague, Manager.
INSURE
Pn
& QtA
WITH
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY—
Established 1878
FIRE,
ACCIDENT, MOTOR CAR
PLUVIUS (Rainfall) INSURANCES
HOUSEHOLDERS & HOUSEOWNERS'
COMPREHENSIVE (Combined)
INSURANCE
CROPS, STACKS and OTHER AGRI-
CULTURAL INSURANCE
BE - PATRIOTIC. INSURE AUSTRALIAN
PROPERTY IN AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE
COMPANY.
Head Office:
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
KELSO KING, Managing Director.
causing so much breakage as to make
him liable for considerable damages.
But, on the other hand, we do hear,
' quite often, of people or firms around
whom risks of claim for damages, or
risks of actual damage, are so concen-
trated that they have approached insur-
ance offices and sought a policy to cover
risks of either kind. Thus a shopkeeper
may insure his plate-glass window against
the possibility of its being broken in the
wee, sma’ hours of morning when neither
he nor police may be about to appre-
hend the breaker and ask him what he’s
going to do about it. The same shop-
keeper may insure himself against the
possibility of one of his customers trip-
ping on a stairway, injuring him- (more
likely her-) self, and claiming damages
against the shopkeeper. This risk of
accident in premises open to the'public
is called “public risk.”
The public risk liability has grown
with the expansion of civilisation and the
development of inventions. In no place
is it so apparent as on the highways.
A motor-car owner needs not only
to insure his vehicle against the possi-
bility of damage to it, but he should
also indemnify himself against claims for
damages in the event of his causing
damage to persons or property while
driving a car. Anyone who has ever
driven a car in any metropolitan area
in Australia must have at once realised
the possibilities of such claims some day
arising. In country areas the danger is
very little less, because there is always
a tendency for human beings to be no
more careful than the occasion seems
to demand.
So a person who owns a motor-car,
if he is married, doesn’t fully protect
his family merely by taking out a life-
assurance policy. The effect of a law-
suit following a car accident is some-
thing that also should be provided
against. So many people are alive to
this necessity nowadays that what is
known as “third-party” motor-car insur-
ance has become a big feature in acci-
dent assurance.
You don’t go to a life Assurance office
to take out third-party cover. This type
of insurance is conducted by the fire and
accident offices. Third-party cover on
the part of car-owners isn’t compulsory
in every Australian State, but it should
be, for the protection of the injured as
well as the insured. The cover is often
—but not always—included in policies
covering damage to the owner’s car.
The cover granted in relation to the
third-party risk is not uniform in every
policy issued by the numerous insurance
offices. Therefore particular care should
be taken in choosing an office and in
selecting the form of policy.
The modern comprehensive motor-car
policy usually covers loss or accidental
or malicious (by other parties) damage
of any kind whatsoever to a vehicle, in-
cluding theft of it or any of its acces-
sories ; unlimited legal third-party
liability to persons or property ; the lia-
bility of other persons driving the car,
and the insured’s liability when driving
other people’s cars; an allowance for
medical expenses in respect of bodily
injuries, and personal accident benefits
for the insured or other occupants of the
car. Cover, of course, can be taken out
independently against one or more of
these contingencies, but such policies are
relatively more expensive than the fully
comprehensive type.
A motor-owner who doesn’t carry
third-party cover is a danger to pedes-
trians and other car-owners unless he
happens to be personally well-olf. And
if he is well-off, he isn’t fair to him-
self in carrying the liability which may
accrue if he accidentally injures or kills
someone. Damages resulting from acci-
dents involving injury or death may be
assessed by a jury at thousands of
pounds.
A well-known Australian office, in its
comprehensive policy, indemnifies the
insured against loss, damage or liability
resulting from the driving of the vehicle
by a licensed driver. The loss or damage
in respect of the actual vehicle, of course,
is limited to the amount insured against.
“Damage” includes cost of removal of
the vehicle to the nearest “repairer or
place of safety.”
This particular policy is very simple in
its terms relating to third-party risk. The
third-party cover is unlimited:
The company will indemnify the in-
sured against any liability at law for com-
pensation for death or bodily injury to
persons caused by the use of such vehicle.
“Persons” shall not include: —
(1) Any relative or friend of the in-
sured ordinarily residing with the
insured. •
(2) Any person engaged in and upon the
service of the insured at the time of
such death or bodily injury.
Liability at law for damage to property
(excluding property of the insured) caused
by the use of such vehicle.
Law costs which are incurred with the
written consent of the co. or which the
insured may be ordered to pay in any
action which he defends with the written
consent of the co.
The principal exclusion of the opera-
tion of the insurance is where the driver
incurs the loss, damage or liability while
under the influence of liquor. This ex-
clusion does not apply when the car is
being driven by some unauthorised
person.
Sometimes a limit is placed on' the in-
suring office’s indemnity as regards
public risk; often, as mentioned before,
the indemnity is unlimited. As sug-
gested previously, the position should be
ascertained by the insurer before taking
out his policy. He will find that terms
usually vary, inasmuch as the cover may
extend from himself to his relatives,
employees, employer, etc., as drivers.
One big advantage of third-party in-
surance, apart from the obvious ones,
is that the onus of disproving ground-
less claims, sometimes resulting in heavy
litigation costs, is transferred from his
own shoulders to those of the insuring
company.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
WHAT CHANCE PEACE?
[Readers of cable columns —particularly those of the
“S. M. Herald” —must gather the impression that there
is no possibility of peace whatever. Worth keeping in
mind in cable reading is the fact that it is only the
possibility of war that is being canvassed. With such
factors as Danzig, the ever-increasing violence of wordy
abuse, the colossal massing of armaments and the per-
sistent efforts of warmongers, the chances of peace
prevailing would certainly appear to be small, and it
would require exceptional optimism to be com-
pletely convinced by the statements here given from
, London “Daily Express.” The “Sunday Times” article,
however, merits attention as an attempt to explore the
chances of peace. Its writer may be wrong, but so
may the scaremongers, and the information he gives
is of a kind evidently at present taboo in cables.]
(From “Daily Express ” leaders.)
We are told there is to be a European war on
account of Danzig, a conflict over the inclusion of
this German city of 408,000 inhabitants in the Reich.
The British public will not believe it. The world
is far too wary of war. It knows the consequences
of war, and the final destruction of those who take
part in it.
There are those who say that it doesn’t really
matter, because war must come in any case. They
maintain that the occasion of the war is a secondary
affair.
The British public will not accept that opinion.
To believe that war is inevitable would be a denial
of all. the hopes treasured by the human race, and a
denial of Christianity itself.
If the dictators talk too much and too loudly,
boast and loose vain tongues, immediately rumors of
imminent war spread over the world. If the dictators
lie low and say nothing, the rumors spread among
some people with equal force. They imagine that if
Hitler and Mussolini are not crowing over past ex-
ploits they must be hatching fresh plots.
Last year the “Daily Express” declared: “There
will be no European war involving Britain this year or
next year either.” There was no war last year, and
there will be no European war involving Britain this
year either. Every day that passes without war gives
hope that we are nearer to the dawn of a lasting and
enduring peace.
Factors Favoring Peace
[ln this calmly-made survey of the European situa-
tion, Norman Crump, financial editor of London
“Sunday Times,” disregards for a moment the freely-
publicised factors favoring war and examines some of
those that give peace a chance.]
During a recent visit to the Continent I had con-
versations with bankers and economists representing
some six or eight countries, including both the totali-
tarians and the democracies. I gained the following
impressions of present Continental economic condi-
tions as affecting the chances of war or peace this year.
France has achieved a genuine recovery. It is,
however, a recovery partly based on rearmament. A
more important factor is that the recent repatriation
of capital, which is the mainspring of recovery, was
inspired by feelings of patriotism. Were peace to
become assured, this motive might cease, and so
France might experience new difficulties. Meanwhile,
she has a chance to put her house in order. Her
economic progress since a year ago is a powerful
factor for peace.
Holland is stable and on the whole prosperous.
Belgium is dependent upon her export trade in capital
goods, and so has suffered from the 1938 recession,
from the low prices still current in the primary pro-
ducing countries, and from the general diversion of
capital investment from normal activities to rearma-
ment. Sweden is prosperous. There is a boom in
timber. The Swiss watch trade is good, and is bene-
fiting from the increase in purchasing power that is
due in part to rearmament on both sides of the Rhine.
In Germany the enigma, of course, is Hitler. I
was led to believe that he is at last beginning to realise
that Great Britain means business. The importance of
this lies in the fact that Herr Hitler’s method has
always been to feel his way, going at times to the brink
of war, but never to the actual point of war. His
real passion is said to be the desire to rebuild Berlin.
I found some disposition among these knowledge-
able Europeans to minimise the German desire for
Danzig. From the economic standpoint, I was told,
“Danzig needs Poland, but Poland does not need
Danzig. In any case, Danzig is a dying port.” The
emphasis was laid more on the desire of Germany to
bring back the Germans now in Poland. Here 1 dis-
covered an interesting fact. The occupation of Czecho-
slovakia last March was just as big a shock to the
educated German as it was to British public opinion.
The educated German suddenly found ithat Herr
Hitler was expanding beyond the racial boundaries
of Germany, and he had considerable difficulty in
adjusting his ideas.
One interesting suggestion made to me was that
Herr Hitler may abandon his designs on Poland and
rapidly turn to Hungary. The Hungarians are feeling
nervous lest they should suddenly become a German
protectorate ; while, in accordance with his normal
procedure, Herr Hitler may regard Hungary as the
next “soft spot,” where he can move without fear of
interference.
According to some authorities, Germany is not in
a position economically to wage war for more than a
few months ; and all Germans in a position of re-
sponsibility, whether army, civil service, finance or
industry, know it. Economic activity depends on men,
money and machines, and in Germany all three are
already working at full capacity. There is no easy
scope for that enormous and sustained extra effort
which war requires. Fresh incentives would have to
be found, and these might have to include the incen-
live of higher profits. The provision of this incentive
would quickly lead to unconcealed inflation.
Now, Germany has already been dodging inflation
for the past two years with indifferent success. Her
latest device, introduced last spring, was that of tax
certificates, which Government contractors had to
accept in part payment. These certificates constitute
a limited form of currency, and the first of them will
reach maturity next October. Even if peace is main-
tained, their maturity will create a serious financial
problem for the Reich. Germany still remembers
painfully the inflation of the early twenties. That
inflation destroyed the existing German middle-classes ;
and the new middle-class, which has since grown up,
does not want to go the same way.
There is also the attitude of the contiguous
neutrals. In 1914 they still believed that the mark
would remain the mark, and this made it easier for
Germany to buy from them. In a future war they
would insist upon immediate payment in their own
currencies for all goods supplied to Germany, for
they would no longer have faith in the mark or in
Germany’s future ability to pay. This fact would put
Germany in an impossible position, and indeed would
constitute the first line in any blockade. This line
hardly existed in 1914.
Another factor is the growing international
character of German industry. Companies such as
Unilever and General Motors have long had German
interests. Of recent years the profits of those interests
have been blocked in Germany, and so have had to
-“L’CEuvre,” Paris.
THE LATEST TIP.
"You know the coup for September 30? Well, it’s
for August 24.”
be reinvested in German undertakings of all kinds.
As a result, international industry has to-day a con-
siderable stake in Germany, and is working in close
and friendly collaboration with influential German
businessmen. Should war break out, these inter-
nationally-owned interests would at once be expro-
priated. Knowledge of this fact means that the weight
of the business world is thrown on the side of peace.
Herr Hitler is incalculable, but he is capable of
accepting an economic argument if he can be con-
vinced that it has a political application. In a sense,
rearmament sprang from the Nazi desire to create fuil
employment, and it may be thought that the Third
Reich is driven to maintain rearmament and the
present atmosphere of political tension simply to
maintain employment. This is not true. For one
thing there is already too much employment. Herr
Hitler could switch over from rearmament to public
works. He could fulfil his desire to rebuild Berlin and
he could rehabilitate the German railways, which
to-day have deteriorated to a degree that makes them
a serious economic and military weakness.
For these reasons alone, my banking and econo-
mist friends were agreed that Germany is in no con-
dition to stand a war of more than a few months, and
that Herr Hitler’s economic advisers know it. It is
mainly because of this that the odds to-day are in
favor of peace.
Relief Over a “Peace Message”
[Though cables gave various versions of the German
“peace message” of July 21, declaring that Germany did
not intend to precipitate a crisis over Danzig and did
not expect an “August crisis,” there was nothing of the
German people’s reaction to it, which, according to the
Berlin correspondent’s report here condensed from
London “Daily Telegraph,” was one of considerable
relief, itself a favorable factor.]
The news has spread through the country like
wildfire that “There will be no war.” There is a wave
of relief throughout the nation. It would almost seem
that life has taken on a new aspect for them.
It came as a first-class sensation to an anxious
people, who have been saying, but not believing, that
the Fiihrer would never lead them into a war. How
the Danzig problem will be solved is still a mystery,
but the people are saying that, if Herr Hitler is con-
fident that it will be solved peacefully, then they are
confident, too.
The attitude of the German man in the street,
apart from tremendous relief and renewal of confi-
dence, is that once again England is being looked on
to keep the peace. Germans are saying that the
Luhrer never meant to involve his country in a wai,
and that his demand for Danzig is so justifiable that
every honest European will some day sympathise
with it.
The fact that Herr Hitler has told the world
to-day that he at any rate has no intention of causing
a war this autumn and that he does not believe that
there will be any disturbance from any side indicates
to the average citizen that the Danzig plans have been
postponed. They argue that, if the Fiihrer really in-
tended to challenge the world to a war in the hope of
conquest, he would do it this autumn or never.
“Scare” in London
[The Bulletin’s representative in London writes
(21/7/’39) that there, “with every person you talk to
to-day, without any exception, the one topic is the
Crisis, or Will It Be War in August?” Yet the
general feeling seems to be that there will not be war
over Danzig.” How London is being affected by the
scare is indicated by the letter here condensed from
London “Daily Telegraph” (writer, Charles E. Wiles).]
The Bank of England’s monthly returns of retail
trading indicate once more how severely London s
West End shops are suffering from the “war or
nerves.” The public is not buying.
This is the result of groundless and unreasoning,
but contagious, fear. Yet war has not come—and may
not come —and meanwhile Britain still strides from
strength to strength. Despite terrific expenditure and
high taxation, wages are high and rising, employment
is broadening, the standard of living has never been
better. Our defence is more formidable than ever, li
not impregnable, it is fast becoming so. Our Navy is
unbeatable. Our Air Force is in many respects the
finest in the world. Our Army, already strong, grows
hourly stronger.
Is this then the time for our noblest and richest
city, and indeed the richest quarter of it, to lose heart,
to skimp its buying, withhold its investing, forego its
holidays? That is precisely what the dictators are
aiming at.
“The Shadow of the Navy”
[Perhaps this item, too —from “Great Britain and the
East” —can be included here as a factor making for
peace ... in the final considerations.]
The Navy will be mobilised early in August and
will remain mobilised until near the end of September
—that is, until the Nuremburg Rally of the German
Nazis and what is commonly regarded as the season
when trouble is likely to take place, if it occurs at all,
is well over.
The Reserve Fleet, consisting of some 130 ships
of all kinds, from battleships to small craft, is being
called up and some 12,000 officers and men on reserve
and pensioners notified to join the ships. Having
been reviewed by the King the Reserve Fleet joins the
Home Fleet.
Thus the shadow of the British Navy, a navy
much stronger than it was even in 1914, will lie across
the seas, a reminder to any potential trouble-maker
of the might of the British Empire and of the nation’s
resolve that freedom shall not be trampled upon by
force. The great ships, stark in their strength, grey
and grim, will be on their silent and unobtrusive mis-
sion for some seven weeks, at the end of which time,
it is hoped (and, indeed, believed with confidence)
they will return as peacefully as they have left.
Stalin Faces East.
[ln the article here condensed from the “Saturday
Evening Post” Demaree Bess contends that the Soviet
reluctance to join the “Peace Front” and also other
matters of recent Soviet history can be explained as all
part of Stalin’s policy of turning away from Europe
and concentrating upon Asiatic Russia, with its vast
area of more than 7,000,000 sq. miles, considerably
greater than the area of all Europe.]
Josef Stalin likes to consider himself an Asiatic.
Technically, he is not Asiatic, because his native
Georgia lies just within the borders of Europe. But
the Georgians are really Oriental people. Also, Stalin's
years of exile were spent, not in Europe, like those of
so many Russian revolutionaries, but in Asiatic Russia.
When he gave his first interview in 1925 to a Japanese
newspaperman, he greeted him with the words: “I,
too, am an Asiatic.”
This all-powerful ruler has no sentimental or in-
tellectual ties with Europe. From the moment he got
affairs into his own hands in Russia, the relationship
between Russia and Europe gradually changed. He
has deliberately inculcated in his people, young and
old, his own indifference to European problems.
The October revolution in 1917 marked the end
of the first European period in Russian history, dur-
ing which ties with the West had been steadily strength-
ened, with the ruling classes thinking in terms of
Europe. And in May, 1939, the end of Russia’s second
European period was symbolised in the abrupt resig-
nation of Maxim Litvinov, the cosmopolitan Polish
Jew who had served for a decade as the Soviet Com-
missar for Foreign Affairs.
Litvinov, like so many of his revolutionary asso-
ciates, is a European at heart. During the three years
following the summer of 1936, he watched the “dis-
appearance” of most of his old friends in the revolu-
tionary movement, including almost all of those who
knew and liked Europe best. Litvinov had to look on
in silence while Bukharin and Kamenev and Zinoviev
and hundreds of other old Bolsheviks were shot oi
shut away in concentration camps in Siberia. He saw
that men who understood Europe, like himself, were
being replaced by men who knew little or nothing
about Europe at first hand, and who thought exclu-
sively in terms of Russia. For the second time in a
generation, a Europeanised ruling class was being
violently scrapped in Russia. . .
To-day the people of Soviet Russia, though it is
Europe’s largest country, have only the haziest ideas


concerning their European neighbors. They have be-
come infinitely more remote in spirit from Europe
than Americans. While millions of Americans hang
on their radios during Europe’s perpetual crises, as if
their lives depend upon the outcome, the Russian
people, as a rule, haven’t even been informed that such
crises exist.
The new Soviet Foreign Commissar, V. M. Molo-
tov, often repeats the phrase: “Our country is altogether
another world.” That phrase expresses the literal'
truth. All totalitarian dictatorships try to keep their
people from knowing anything except what they
want them to know. But Germany and Italy find it
difficult, because their countries are wedged in among
20-odd nations of Europe.
During my last two years in Russia, in 1936 and
1937, the process of detaching the Russian people
from Europe was proceeding apace, and it has been
accelerated in 1938 and 1939. The Soviet Government
directly controls every Soviet newspaper, magazine,
radio-broadcasting station, movie theatre and publish-
ing house ; it is the employer of every public speaker
of any kind. After the Munich conference, it ordered
its vast army of propagandists either to ignore Europe
altogether, or to picture events in Europe as a messy
series of betrayals in which Russian interests were not
seriously involved.
The Russian people have been systematically iso-
lated from Europe ever since the revolution, but their
isolation became far more pronounced after the latest
series of purges started in 1936. The police rounded
up almost all resident foreigners, including . foreign
Communists, and expelled them. They refused resi-
dence permits to foreign professors, research workers
and students who had previously been welcomed.
They cut down the admission even of tourists to a
trickle. They confiscated practically all foreign news-
papers and magazines. The only radio sets for sale in
Russia are those made by the Soviet Government,
not strong enough to pick up most European stations.
After 1936 the authorities closed down most
foreign Consulates outside Moscow, and policemen
watched those in Moscow day and night, to discour-
age Soviet citizens from visiting them. Russians learned
by experience, in these years, that they serve their own
best interests by avoiding the few foreign residents
and tourists still tolerated.
To-day, Stalin controls, in a more absolute
manner than any one man ever before controlled, one-
seventh of the earth’s surface, a region more than
twice the size of the whole of Europe. He controls,
as closely as any Pharaoh ever controlled, the labor
of 170,000,000 people. And he has almost succeeded
—more nearly than any Pharaoh ever did—in con-
trolling the thoughts of his people as well as their
labor. And for 11 years Stalin and his associates have
been persistently drilling into the minds of Soviet men
and women, especially young people, the belief that
Russia’s future lies to the east, in Asia.
In the earlier years of his rule, Stalin seems to
have combined in his slow but keen mind, in a curious
sort of intermingling, his own Asiatic notions of
empire building with Marxian notions of world revo-
lution and a world Soviet republic. These two con-
ceptions, not altogether contradictory, have gradually
merged into a unified conception of a concrete new
empire, predominantly Asiatic.
It is perfectly clear, in advance of formal agree-
ments, just how far Stalin will go in Europe. He will
go just so far, and no farther than he believes may be
necessary to protect his European borders.
Uncle Sam’s Neutrality Law.
(From an article by “Scrutator” in London “Sunday
Times")
It was once said of a man that he was so upright
that he leaned over backwards; and, without dis-
respect, one wonders whether the same might not be
said of the American Neutrality Law. Broadly—■
for there are loopholes and exceptions—the effect of
the law is to forbid American citizens to trade in
munitions with nations that are at war.
So long as America is neutral the law rules out as
irrelevant all considerations of moral right and wrong.
Unless America is prepared to join in the war herself
she must gather her skirts tightly about her and avoid
the risk of contamination.
Whether such a policy would, in fact, be more
likely to keep America at peace is open to argument;
conceivably a rule of neutrality that prevented her
from helping the side on which her sympathies lay
might force her earlier into the war.
It must be remembered that the trade in muni-
tions with a belligerent Power is not a breach of the
established rules of neutrality. It was made a breach
in the Spanish war, but that was by special agreement
only possible because it was a civil war, and we, at
any rate, were genuinely anxious to avoid taking sides
in Spain's internal affairs.
But in a war between independent belligerents
America could, by the ordinary rules of neutrality,
supply munitions to either without losing her neutral
status. If the trade helped our side more than the
other, it would only be because our command of the
sea enabled us to import American munitions which
could never reach the enemy.
The detailed provisions of the law exaggerate
rather than cure its lack of a consistent logic. If it
be the trade in arms as distinguished from the use to
which they are put that is morally wrong, the embargo
on it need not wait until war has actually broken
out, but might reasonably be applied earlier in the
hope of preventing war through lack of the materials
with which it is Avaged. In political as in other medi-
cine prevention is better than cure.
Again, the application of
the embargo can be capri-
cious and bear no relation to
reason or to morals. No em-
bargo has been declared on
the trade in munitions for the
war between China and
Japan, and though the real
reason for this is that the
President, who would have
to make the declaration, does
not believe in an embargo,
he would have no alternative
but to impose it save for a
technical reason. The reason
is that Japan has never de-
clared war on China. The
President must declare the
embargo if he finds that a
state of war exists.
It would seem to follow
that, if neither side declared
war in another great war, all
this neutrality legislation
might become a dead letter.
Another hole in the law is
the so-called “cash-and-carry
provision,” which is indefensible if the object of the
legislation is to stop good Americans from making a
profit out of the evil business of war. This is a provi-
sion that allows Americans to sell munitions to a bel-
ligerent who will fetch them and pay cash before he
takes them away. There is yet another loophole in the
distinction between munitions that have only a war-
like use and those which have a peaceful use as well
to which the embargo does not apply. Thus, while
guns may not be sold, aeroplanes may.
German Surpluses and Shortages.
(.From an article written by a correspondent in Germany
for London “Times” Trade and Engineering supplement .)
The tremendous efforts which are being made to
increase production in Germany are well illustrated
by official figures for 1938. Output of iron ore in-
creased by two-thirds between 1936 and 1938 —in
Central and South Germany it was doubled. Coal
output increased slightly. Production of aluminium
was 160,000 tons in 1938, against 19,000 tons in 1932.
The use of waste material —rags, etc., shows sub-
stantial progress —namely, 103,000 tons in 1938, com-
pared with 60,000 tons in 1934. Production of Zell-
wolle (staple fibre) reached 155,000 tons in 1938 and
rayon 65,000 tons. That of Zellwolle is expected to
increase to 200,000 tons this year. One firm, the
Siiddeutsche Zellwolle A.-G., whose balance sheet has
just been published, states that it raised its daily out-
put from 40,000 kg. in 1937 to 60,000 kg. in 1938.
Large increases in production and registration of
motor-cars and cycles are recorded. The total number
of motor vehicles registered and in use on July 1,
1938, is given as 1,305,234 cars,' 381,096 lorries and
3,269,202 cycles, compared with 495,238 cars, 152,420
lorries and 1,457,426 cycles in 1932. The large number
of motor-cycles in use is remarkable. The export
figures of the Auto-Union A.-G., in spite of world
political unrest, rose from 27,600,000 Rm. in 1937 to
37,700,000 Rm. in 1938, or 37 per cent. With a paid-
up capital of 14,500,000 Rm. it has declared a 6 per
cent, dividend after writing off nearly 12,000,000 Rm.
for depreciation. It employs over 22,000 people.
While manufacturers generally are satisfied with
their earnings, although grumbling at the. many re-
strictions they have to put up with, many small shop-
keepers dealing in foodstuffs are hardly able to make
both ends meet owing to scarcity, and therefore less-
ened turnover. Many are having to close down and,
when they complain, are told by the authorities that
the best thing for them to do is to take jobs, as there
is a shortage of workers in nearly every branch of
trade owing to the large numbers of men who have
had to go to the West Front and elsewhere to build
fortifications.
The system of control is apparently so compli-
cated that although there is not a shortage all round
there are continual stoppages of one thing or another.
For some days a butcher may not be able to supply
veal, but he has beef and pork or vice versa. Every-
where coffee, butter and honey are scarce, and the
two former are rationed, Hb. of coffee and Of
butter being the usual limit. The sale of tea, which
is little used in Germany, is unrestricted, but queues
at butchers’ and coffee shops are general, and apples
are very scarce and often not to be had for days.
The big shipping companies also are not pleased
with freight and passenger traffic. The North Ger-
man Lloyd, stated in its balance sheet a short time ago
that the number of passengers carried on its boats last
year totalled only 113,826, compared with 137,516 in
1937, and complained that traffic between Bremen
and' New York, more especially, fell substantially
owing to political and economic difficulties. On the
other hand, traffic with Canada remained satisfac-
tory. With a capital of 46,660,000 Rm. it shows a
profit, after allowing for depreciation, of only
25,377 Rm. for 1938, and is therefore unable to pay a
dividend. The trading results of the Hamburg-Ameri-
can line have been correspondingly poor.
Nippon and Nippon’s War.
[ln a sentence which deserves to become a journal-
istic classic, Manchester “Guardian” sums up the
position in China: “At present Japan holds the coast,
the chief cities of the interior, the Yangtze Valley, and
the principal roads and railways, but that is all.” The
items here condensed from various acknowledged sources
supplement information and views presented in
“Uncabled Additions” during July. The first item is a
general survey of the growth of the Japanese Empire
over 60 years.]
Nippon’s Empire Grows
(From Manchester “Guardian.”)
The Japanese Empire has all been acquired within
the last 65 years, and all, with a few minor excep-
tions, at the expense of China. Fear of Russia, how-
—“Daily Herald," London.
AN INTRUDER AT THE TOKIO TALKS.
SIR ROBERT CRAIGIE : "E r—would you mind sending your scaly pet outside?"
ever, has played a large part in directing its growth,
and until recently Japan’s chief opponent on the main-
land of Asia was Russia rather than China.
Japan’s first objective was to secure the scattered
groups of islands near her shores, many of which were
inhabited by Japanee-speaking people. She annexed
the Liuchiu, Bonin and Ryukuyu islands, which had
previously belonged to the Chinese Empire, and secuied
the Kurile Islands by agreement with Russia. This
stage was completed between 1871 and 1879. Her
first act of aggression proper was the annexation of
the island of Taiwan (Formosa), which, together with
the Pescadores Islands, was ceded by China after her
defeat in the Sino-Japanese War of 1894-95.
Before that date Japan had begun to interest her-
self in Korea, on the mainland, with a view to making
it a “buffer State” against Russian expansion, though
Korea was then part of the Chinese Empire. In 1876
Japan recognised Korea as an independent State, ob-
taining certain concessions ; in 1882 she sent troops
there to “restore order” after a revolt; and in 1884
another revolt resulted in a clash between Chinese and
Japanese troops which led to the Sino-Japanese War.
After the war China was also forced to recognise
Korea’s “independence.” A long period followed dur-
ing which Japan sought to obtain absolute control over
Korea, an aim she was unable to achieve until she had
also defeated Russia in 1905. After that the process
was swift, and in 1910 Korea became part of the
Japanese Empire.
The next objective was Manchuria. After the
Sino-Japanese War China had ceded the Liaotung
Peninsula to Japan with certain concessions in South
Manchuria, but Japan was forced by Russia, Ger-
many and Frarice to restore it. Once again Japan’s
chief opponent was not China but Russia, and, as m
Korea, she could make little headway until she had
defeated Russia in the Russo-Japanese War of 1904-05.
After that date Japan consolidated her position in
South Manchuria, while Russia was content with the
north. Russia also ceded to Japan Karafuto, the
southern half of the island of Sakhalin.
At the outbreak of the World War in 1914 Japan
declared war on Germany and seized the German-
leased territory of Kiaochow with its port Tsingtao in
the province of Shantung, in North China. She also
demanded and obtained concessions in Manchuria and
China proper. Taking advantage of the Bolshevik
revolution in Russia, she then turned, northwards and
invaded Siberia. However, all these ventures came to
nothing after the war was over, and she was forced
to restore Tsingtao to China by the insistence of the
other Powers at the Washington Conference. As
recompense she was given a mandate over the
Mariana, Caroline and Marshall Islands, in the Pacific,
which had previously belonged to Germany.
A period of quiescence followed under more
Liberal statesmen, while the National Government of
China extended its • influence northward. When the
tide reached Manchuria, Japan, in 1931, invaded the
north-eastern provinces. Manchukuo was established
in 1932, Jehol added in 1933, and Japanese troops
crossed the Great Wall into North China. Frorq 1933
to 1937 Japan endeavored to secure control of North
China by “peaceful penetration” and to detach Inner
Mongolia as yet another “buffer” against Russia.
When that failed, Japan began the present war.
War Supplies for Nippon
[Manchester “Guardian,” in leader comment on the
letter written by H. J. Timperley here condensed from
its columns, states that those who seek confirmation of
the figures “will find it abundantly in a survey cf Japan’s
Japan Moves South.
w


economic position published by the American F„ r eg
Policv Association. It adds: In 193 s alone tne unnea
States exports of aircraft and parts to Japan amounted
to $13,553,000.1
During 1938 the United States and the Philip-
pines, the British Empire and the Netherlands, induct-
ing the Dutch East Indies (all of them countries witn
vital interests in the Fast East), furnished Japan with
more than 86 per cent, of the materials which are
essential for war purposes and for the supply of which
Japan must place her dependence, in whole or in part,
on foreign sources. TT . ,
Amongst these countries the United States ranks
first, supplying 56 p.c. The British Empue comes
second with 20.69 p.c., and the Netherlands and Dutch
East Indies third with 8.62 p.c. #
During 1938 the countries mentioned furnished
Japan with 64.80 p.c. of her requirements in the way
of automobiles, parts and accessories, 71.25 p.c. of her
metal-working machinery, 77.03 p.c. of her aircraft,
99.09 p.c. of her petroleum supplies, 99.21 p.c. of her
ores 99.23 p.c. of her scrap iron, 99.95 p.c. of her
copper, 99.86 p.c. of her lead and 100 p.c. of her
nickel, mica and asbestos requirements.
The British Empire’s share was distributed as
follows:
Per Cenl.
of Grand Total.
United Kingdom 1-0?
British Malaya .. .. • • • ■
Canada .. ■ ■ • ■ • • • • " AH . )
British India
Australia .. .. •• •• *— B
20.69
Canada provided Japan, with 45.97 p.c. of her re-
quirements in the way of aluminium, 91.29 p.c. ol her
nickel, which is essential to the manufacture of heavv
guns, armor-plates, casings for machine-gun
bullets and for rotating and driving bands in
shells, and 100 p.c. of her asbestos. British
Malaya furnished 67.55 p.c. of Japan’s rubber
supplies and 91.68 p.c. of her tin. British
India supplied 97.26 p.c, of Japan’s mica
requirements.
Element of Desperation
{From an article by the “Times’ Peking
correspondent.)
Japan is now facing enormous difficul-
ties in North China, and is searching desper
ately and a little blindly for their cause. The
endless battle for Shansi Province goes on.
Chinese guerrillas remain a menace, steadily,
if slowly, reducing Japanese man-power. The
plan to conquer the centre of Hopei Province
this summer and get a big cotton-planting
scheme under way was a dismal failure, the
large guerrilla forces inflicting heavy casual-
ties and losing only a few unimportant towns
and none of the rich cotton land. The North
China railways are in a bad plight and do not
pay. There is a desperate shortage of rolling
stock, and Japan has failed to secure credits
in America for new stock, while orders placed
in Germany cannot be filled for months to
come. The new Japanese currency in North
China has failed in its purpose.
All this has added a touch of desperation
to the acts of the Japanese Army in North
China. The Army now looks for an enemy other than
the Chinese. To focus attention on one point, propa-
ganda centres on Britain, which is handy, just because
she is so far away and her hands are full in Europe.
But after several days of blockade in Tientsin the
Japanese appear to be gaining little or nothing and
losing much by this adventure. In the Japanese Con-
cession half the shops are closed and the streets are
empty; the blockade has brought trade to a standstill
for every one, and Japanese trade in Tientsin was big.
This is the second blockade. The first, late last
winter, was similar, but not attended by the outrages
on British subjects that have characterised this one.
It gradually faded away until it ceased to be even a
local news story ; and then everyone suddenly realised
it was all over. If the Japanese Army does not run
amuck completely, this second blockade may end the
same way. But the army may yet run amuck. From
an organisation which committed the Nanking out-
rages in cold blood anything may be expected. Bushido,
if not dead, is fast asleep. .
Why the blockade was started is clearly shown by
its results. Business has been brought to a standstill.
The British and French Concessions are the business
heart of North China. Banks, wharves, warehouses,
cotton mills, Customs House —all are there, as well as
Japanese banks and business houses. The Chinese
may be said to be the lifeblood flowing through this
business heart, and their flow has been stopped, and
business with it.
These Concessions represent what the Japanese
particularly wish to control in this region. As one
commentator has said, while the British and French
Concessions remain in Tientsin North China cannot be
added to the Japanese Empire. While they remain
Japan cannot monopolise North China’s trade, indus-
try and finance.
China’s New Lifelines
{From a London “Daily Telegraph” article by Alan
Houghton Broderick, recently returned from the scenes
he describes.)
The struggle which is going on in China can be
described as a struggle of currencies. The Japanese
are pursuing a financial and economic policy of great
daring and astuteness.
They have created new currencies, and it is a
serious crime in occupied China even to possess dollars
of the National Government. With phantom moneys
the Japanese are buying up occupied China, lock, stock,
and barrel. A gigantic war indemnity is being paid
by the Chinese people without its being very clearly
realised what is happening.
If the Japanese can hold on long enough and it
the Government of Chiang Kai-shek cannot export
easily and import essential war material, the work of
the Chinese people in occupied China and the revival
of old and the creation of new industries will infuse
blood into the “yuans” (which are exchangeable at
par for Japanese yen). Then the Japanese will have
solved the most serious of their problems —the financ-
ing of the war and their own economic revival. They
will have laid the financial foundations of the formid-
able empire they intend tQ try to establish in the Far
East. . .
Therefore, the maintenance of her lines of com-
munication and the creation, if possible, of new ones
is for Nationalist China a matter of life or of death.
Her lifelines are few.
There is, first of all, that which communicates
with Soviet Russia. The journey is long, little is ex-
—“Le Canard Enchaine," Paris.
THE TOKIO TALKS—PARISIAN VIEW.
“And if I give you my miserable banknotes?”
“Then I should return your honorable underpants.”
ported by this route and, although material still reaches
China from the Soviets, the amounts are probably not
increasing. ’
All the other lines pass through the south-west,
the most mountainous district. The Burmese road will
be, from now on for some months, practically useless
owing to the torrential rains.
There remain the roads through French Indo-
china, a country which has taken on, in the last few
months, a new importance. Hanoi, the capital, and
Haiphong, the principal port, swarm with Chinese of
all sorts and of all political opinions. Adventurers
from every country under the sun are to be met with
in every street, buying, selling and bargaining.
Routes open from Indo-China to China include
the Yunnan railway. Until recently the French main-
tained an embargo on war material for China. Now
war supplies are being rushed up to the high plateaux
of south-western China, and the stuff which had been
piling up in the godowns of’ Hong Kong or on the
quayside at Haiphong is entering China at the rate of
about 300 tons a day, which it is hoped to
increase to 500 tons by August. It is remarkable
that so much gets through on the narrow-gauge,
single - track line constructed by the French in
1901 - 1910 after incredible engineering difficulties.
The track climbs to over 6000 ft. in less than
40 miles and passes through 160 tunnels in about
300 miles. ,
If China can maintain her lifelines through and
to her Western stronghold she may yet baffle the
Japanese and cause their well-laid plans to miscarry,
but the- struggle is not yet over.
Germany’s “Western Wall.”
(From a report by London “Daily Telegraph’s’’ Berlin
correspondent .)
Lieut.-General Jacob, of the German Corps of
Engineers, in a retrospective article on the western
line of fortifications in the “Militaer-Wochenblatff a
leading German military weekly, declares that Gei-
many’s “Western Wall” is “finished and unconquer-
able.” . . ~ .
A third of all the cement-mixing machines in the
Reich were employed. They mixed approximately
6,000,000 tons of cement, or more than a third of the
total German output. Nearly 25,000,000 cubic feet
of wood were used in building emplacements.
The railways delivered 8000 truckloads of ma-
terials daily during the construction period, while
canal traffic also accounted for the transport of large
quantities of material. Considerably more than 15,000
lorries, commandeered from all over Germany, were
in use.
Infantry entanglements required the employment
of 3,000,000 rolls of barbed wire. Tank-traps weie
constructed partly by the use of excavating machines,
also brought together from all parts of the Reich, an
partly by the laying down of rows of concrete teeth.
On and after Oct, 6, 1938, more than 532,000 me
were working on the fortifications. Of these, 9u,uu
were army engineers and 100.000 members of the
labor corps.
The World’s Wheat.
(From a London “Daily Mail” cuticle by Entry* Jones^
With so much of Nazi Germany’s manhood under
arms, the harvest provides a labor problem, so near y
100,000 workers from what was Czechoslovakia are
drafted into the fields of the Reich to cut and store
the wheat growing on the 5,037,000 acres that Uei-
many devotes to producing her daily bread.
From those acres she gets 5,490,000 tons of whea
a year. A good yield, yet not enough to feed hei
80,000,000 people, so she must import another
1,248,000 tons. That is a grave war problem tor
Hitler, for most of this wheat must come .from over
the seas —from Canada, Australia, the United States,
the Argentine. mn
Into Germany’s granaries last year went 113,uuu
tons of wheat from Canada ; 37,000 tons fro™ Aus-
tralia ; 240,000 tons from the United States; 15_,uuu
tons from the Argentine, and 186,000 tons from India.
All brought to Germany by vulnerable sea routes.
More content, therefore, are the Nazi leaders to
hear that in South-east Europe, on their doorstep, this
year bumper crops are expected in Rumania and Hun-
gary Germany does very well down in those parts.
Last year she took 207,000 tons of wheat from
Rumania, 112,000 tons from Hungary. This year the
Nazis are going to take 60 per cent, of Hun-
gary’s wheat.
Wheat is a worry also to the other Axis
partner. While most of the world looks
forward to record crops, this year’s Italian
harvest is going to produce no more than last
year’s, though 4 per cent, more land has been
put under wheat by Mussolini’s industrious
peasants.
They seed 12,426,000 acres, and get from
it 7,964,000 tons of wheat a year, whicn
means that they must import another 285,001)
tons to keep themselves above the starvation
level. So Mussolini orders 3000 tons from
Canada ; 109,000 tons from Australia ; 15,000
tons from the United States ; 7000 tons from
the Argentine; another 15,000 tons from
Rumania; 50,000 tons from Hungary and
50,000 tons from Bulgaria.
Those, the chief supplies, are on vul-
nerable trade routes, or, from Bulgaria,
dominated by Turkey, long-standing enemy
of Italy.
France has no vital wheat problem. Her
area under wheat is little more than Italy s
—12,502,000 acres—but she gets a far greater
return from her rich 50i1— 9,251,000 tons a
year, though Germany yields more. Nor-
mally, France can feed herself, though last
year she imported 160,000 tons from Canada,
apart from her supplies from the colonies in
North Africa. She took 101,000 tons from Algeria,
91,000 tons from French Morocco and 74,000 tons
from Tunisia.
France’s great problem is labor at the harvest
time. In the past she has relied on 500,000 laborers
from Belgium, Poland and Czechoslovakia. Now,
with the Poles under arms, the Czechs and Slovaks m
the fields of Germany, there are only the Belgians left,
and Germany is tempting them into her wheatfields.
As for Britain, in the United Kingdom there are
only 1,928,000 acres under wheat, and that means
1,965,000 tons a year, so with her crowded population
it’s no surprise that Britain is the greatest wheat im-
porting nation in the world, towering far above any
other country.
Britain’s total imports of wheat come to 5,082,000
tons a year, and we must have it or starve, so we must
retain our mastery of the seas. The route to Aus-
tralia must be kept free, for we take from there
1,550,000 tons a year. So must the submarine be de-
feated in the Atlantic, because Canada sends us
1,443,000 tons and the United States 789,000 tons.
Then from the Argentine we want 291,000 tons, from
the Soviet Upion 477,000 tons, from India 220,000
tons and from Rumania 180,000 tons, and a few thou-
sand tons from Yugoslavia and Bulgaria.
Those loaded grain ships mean daily bread to the
45,000,000 people in these islands, and we pay for it
not only in cash and trade, but also in the upkeep ot
the world’s greatest navy to see that we get it. For-
tunate is Great Britain in that her supplies come from
other members of the Commonwealth or from friendly
nations.
Wheatgrowers to a vast part of the world are
Canada, India and Australia. India puts 36,134,000
acres under wheat, producing 10,950,000 tons a year,
though only 340,000 tons of it are exported. Canada's
wheatlands cover 25,931,000 acres; they yield
9 375,000 tons a year, and of that she sends
tons across the seas. Australia has a wheat acreage
of 14,,068,000, produces 4,045,000 tons a year and
exports 2,527,000 tons. So as long as Britain can
command the seas the British are sitting pretty.
Meanwhile, the nations in the war danger zones
are piling up the wheat in their granaries After last
August there were plentiful supplies of cheap wheat,
and to the world’s farmers the political tension that
followed the September crisis was a. godsend, because
the nations bought and stored. Now they will store
again, for there is a bumper crop—but whether for
place or war is not Nature's business. Men will
decide.
Not for Uncle.
w


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Cheery Jack shaped ingloriously in the
Australian Hurdle at Caulfield. His
schooling displays had captivated the
Caulfield touts, who labelled him a top-
notcher, and the market was of the same
opinion.
But the Cheery Jack who raced on
.Saturday wouldn't have beaten an out-
back brumby. He nearly crashed at the
first obstacle. After that, according to
the jockey, Windle, he sulked, and re-
fused to do his best.
For more than two-thirds of the 2\
miles’ journey, Cheery Jack was 15
lengths, occasionally 25 lengths, behind
his nearest rival. He merely plodded
along. He finished fourth, 15 lengths
behind Terka, who was a similar dis-
tance away from Bridge of Dee.
Green Cape, • always travelling like a
winner, beat Bridge of Dee by 3± lengths.
The stewards held an inquiry, and cen-
sured Windle for having “ridden an ill-
judged race.” This seems unfair to the
jockey, who manifestly had a moody
mount. Even in the V.R.C. Doutta Galla
Hurdle, lost to Green Cape on a protest,
Cheery Jack played the sluggard early.
There had been rumors that Cheery
Jack was off his feed, but Sydney owner
J. M. C. Forsayth regarded him as next
to a certainty. Luck of this Sydney
sportsman has been most exasperating.
Cheery .Jack fell at Moonee Valley, lost
at Flemington on a protest, and then
ran like a “hairy dog” at Caulfield.
The backing of Restford from sixes
to 7 to 2 caused both Cheery Jack and
Green Cape to recede. The former ended
up at 5 to 2 and Green Cape half a point
longer. Restford couldn’t handle the
heavy going. After being forced along
he knocked up, as also did Wongawill.
Green Cape carried 11.2 to victory in
heroic style. Moving to the front six
furlongs from home, he showed superb
condition, and, cleverly recovering from
a blunder at the final flight of battens,
added further to Bill Burke’s triumphs
as a trainer of jumpers.
Burke hopes to complete the tally of
four “Nationals” this winter by annex-
ing the Australian Steeple with Giant
Killer, but that horse will have a hard
task to dispose of Mustella, who has a
pull of 181 b. in weight.
Mustella (3 to 1, favorite) was tailed
off in the Wilgah Steeplechasers’ Flat on
Saturday, but came home like a true
stayer to get within two lengths of King’s
Warden (fives). That outing on the flat
ought to do Mustella a world of good.
Jack Holt landed a division of the
Crimea Trial with Hall Mark’s brother,
Pure Gold, an even-money pop. If this
colt trains on he will be taken over for
the Derby at Randwick. But as yet Pure
Gold isn’t comparable with Hall Mark.
Manrico, also trained by Holt, was
freighted with 9.10 in the Moondah Plate.
Starting at twos, he made a courageous
effort, but in the heavy going he lost to
Hilton (fours) by a head. El Golea,
winner of the last Newmarket, was a
highly creditable third with 9.1. He is
on the way to cherry-ripe condition.
Pat Quinlan won the second division
of the Crimea Trial with Khamseen (11
to 2), a much-improved mare. Two
other members of that sex, Rivette (6 to
1) and Cackle (11 to 2), dead-heated in
the Balaclava Stakes. Honors rested with
Rivette, who conceded Cackle 181 b. De-
spite fier lack of stature, Rivette should
have a Caulfield Cup chance.
* * * *
Sydney stipendiaries won’t allow a
horse to race in bandages unless such
bandages are securely seWn. In Mel-
bourne on Wednesday last, Rhymster,
favorite for the Yarra Glen and Lilydale
Hunt Cup, cleared fences opposite the
stand with yards of material unfurling
from a foreleg. His jockey, an amateur,
pulled Rhymster up half a mile from
home, all hope of winning having van-
ished. F. W. Hoysted, the trainer, was
fined £lO for carelessness in bandaging
and not having obtained permission to
use bandages.
Hoysted is a man of ripe experience,
particularly with jumpers. He won
Grand Nationals with Rakwool and Red-
ditch, and last autumn he captured the
Australian Cup with Pageant. If the
sewing of bandages had been compul-
sory on Melbourne courses Fred would
have been saved from an annoying ex-
perience.
Bob Inkson, who rode Rakwool and
Redditch with such success for Hoysted,
contemplates applying for another cross-
country license. He has been schooling
horses lately. As the result of a fall
off Redditch, this master horseman was
out of the saddle for a long while. Two
or three years ago Inkson won a down-
the-line steeplechase, but much of the
former artistry was lacking. Bob’s next
role was that of a garage proprietor.
Now the riding “bug” has attacked him
afresh.
Stables of “S. A. Rawdon,” at Dande-
nong, where he has a private track, do
not contain a galloper worthy of men-
tion in the same breath as Blague, Broad-
sword and Waterline, who did him such
credit when trained by the late Adam
Skirving. The Melbourne newspaper
magnate, however, does possess a good
line of jumpers. With a stand-up, Deck-
ard probably would have credited “Raw-
don” with the Grand National Steeple
at Flemington. Atonement may be made
in the Australian Steeple.
Three of the runners in the Yarra Glen
and Lilydale Hunt Steeplechase at
Moonee Valley on Wednesday carried
the “grey, cardinal stripe, sleeves and
cap” that Waterline once bore to victory
in advance of Phar Lap. Niello, Collier
and Tifone —weighted in that order —were
the “Rawdon” horses. Whereas his stable-
mates commanded solid support, Tifone
was allowed to go out at 25 to 1. After
an exciting finish he scored by half a
’head from Bold Brat; Collier was a mod-
erate third, and Niello wasn’t sighted.
Sixteen started in the Trial Hurdle at
the Moonee Valley mid-week fixture, won
with a lot in hand by the Gippsland mare
Sweet Lullaby. She has an interesting
pedigree, being by Wanrua, a son of Gold
Brew. In his day Gold Brew had few
superiors up to a mile. He was by
Maltster from the 1899 Sydney Cup
winner, Diffidence. Latter measured only
14 hands 2in., and Gold Brew took after
her in size. Yet he lumped 9.13, and
ran King Marco (postage stamp impost)
to a head over six furlongs. Lou Robert-
son reckoned that King Marco would
have won a Sydney Cup but for breaking
down on the eve of the race. An Eng-
lish horse, King Marco went to the stud
in Queensland.
* * * *
Sydney (Heroic-Fair Rosaleen) won
another race for Frank McGrath at Ken-
sington, Sydney, on Wednesday—the
Encourage. Stakes. He was a 5-to-4
favorite, and the track was so bad, as a
result of heavy morning rain, that it took
him 2.193- to run 10 furlongs. In other
races well-fancied horses made miserable
showings in the wet, and horses for which
there was scarcely any money came
home—Bandillo (25 to 1) in the Three-
year-old Handicap and Silver Coat (20
to 1) in a division of the Flying Welter.
Bandillo’s dividend for ss. (one of three)
was £lO 2s. 6d.
In the Kensington Handicap, Mc-
Carten, McMenamin and Lappin had
their Moorefield struggle over again. Mc-
Carten’s mount, Rosante, was a 5-to-4
favorite in a field of five ; McMenamin’s,
Bianconi, was at fives, and Lappin’s, Fox
Foote, was the outsider of the party,
sevens being laid —a rather astonishing
price, for his recent form had been pretty
good. Fox Foote had 4 the easiest win of
the day. He won by ten lengths from
Pearl Verde and Bianconi, Rosante finish-
ing last. It was a mile race, run in 1.47 k
* * * *
Racing on his home track, Rod-
borough, an Epsom candidate, did the
bookmakers a good turn when he won
the Flying Handicap at Rosehill. It took
him all his time to beat Speardale, but
he did beat that good horse, who, to-
gether with Royal Prince and Bonny
Loch, was favorite at fours. Bonny Loch
was third.
Rod borough is raced by the Sydney
sportsmen J. R. and J. K. Hardie. He
had the box seat behind Brazandt until
the Leger was in sight. Speardale made
a game effort, and so did Bonny Loch,
who strikingly resembles his sire
Rampion.
This Page fancied Rodborough, with
Bonny Loch next. The Veilmond gelding
went out at twelves, Speardale
coming from tens. Rodborough has 8.2
in the Epsom and Speardale 8.6. With
the 31b. allowance to which the winner's
apprentice jockey, N. Watterson, was
entitled, there was 121 b. between them on
Saturday.
Legion Bird, trained by the Rylstone
miner H. J. Holt, gave that versatile
worthy another first prize in the August
Handicap. Clever riding on the part of
O’Sullivan was the decisive factor in a
close finish ; Sydney would have scored
with a stronger boy on top. Smith, the
apprentice who had the mount, is no
slouch, but a few strides from the judge’s
box the stronger O’Sullivan drove Legion
Bird ahead, and the country nag won by
half a neck from Sydney, Gimme being
another half-length back third.
Legion Bird was solidly backed at 4 to
L He improved considerably on his pre-
vious effort at Moorefield, where he went
out at tens. Edible, though favorite,
looked big. Fourth all the way, he merely
plodded along in the straight'.
Owen, a stablemate of Speardale, com-
pensated R. R. Smart in the Three- and
Four-year-old Handicap, but had to be
ridden right out to beat Red Eagle
(9 to 2), ridden by McCarten. Vol-
pato was a close third. Owen is a four-
year-old gelding by Constant Son-
Tenebra. This was his best performance
to date, although he had previously scored
three times at Menangle, where he is
trained. Bestop’s running interested the
stewards, and they scolded Mills for his
riding. The Bullhead gelding doesn’t
seem a genuine miler, although he had
been running on at the end of six fur-
longs.
Enatic made it a good day for the
Ring by winning the Parramatta Mile at
tens in a field of seven. He showed
plenty of pluck in beating Braidwood
Boy and Silver Joan, and in a tight finish
with McCarten little Fell was not at all
flurried. A protest was very properly
dismissed. Morning Gift was. made
favorite, but the mare did not jump out
cleanly and had to be hurried to get to
the front. She had had enough at the
top of the straight.
Veteran Dick Wootton landed a double
with My Dear (Granville Novice) and
Windbrook (Maiden Handicap), and with
an ounce of luck would have completed
the hat trick, a performance which
Wootton horses have accomplished at
Randwick, Canterbury, Moorefield and
Gosford. My Dear was favorite at 5 to 2.
She was clear of Galtheon at the finish,
but Macduff (third) had almost put Gal-
theon over the fence near the five fur-
longs.
Paddy Nolan’s apprentice Darke scored
on My Dear and Windbrook. As a year-
ling that Windbag gelding had a crooked
leg and did not race until he was a three-
year-old. Backed from 15 to 1 to sixes,
he romped home from Glorious and
Response.
The second-division finish brought
congratulations to handicapper Jim
Tanner. Toy Time (9 to 4) and Elson
(10 to 1) could not be separated, and
Wootton’s Elastic was only half a head
away third. Elastic’s owner had £lOO
to £5. Commencing the last furlong the
mare got a lucky run on the rails, but
near the finish she was squeezed slightly.
That cost her the race.
* * * *
A moderate field of hurdlers and others
went to the post for the opening event
of the Warwick Farm Bank Holiday
meeting, and Tower Hill, a Doric geld-
ing—was untroubled to lead all the way.
Top-weight Jack Mac had yet another
jockey—the fifth—to try yet other tactics
with him. He finished third.
The scratching pen—freely employed
during the afternoon—left nine to con-
test the fillies’ division of the Tellers’
Handicap; but it was no contest.
Her top-weight of 9st. reduced a couple
of pounds for apprentice Ashmore,
Castalia took charge and ran home an
easy winner from Deanna, with Aldabra
third. The colts and geldings’ division
was won well by Penthides (Pentheus—
Bonnie Marjorie). Fourth at the turn,
Penthides came home particularly fast to
beat El Valor by a neck, with the early
leader, Jazbeau, a close third.
Biggest field of the day—l4—con-
tested the Accountants’ Handicap over six
furlongs. Never further back than third,
Denita, hard-ridden all the way by W.
Cook, wrested the lead from Search
when they’d covered half the distance,
and in the end won comfortably, with
lengths to spare, from Moaveil and Solo-
gram. Denita (Rusden-Berlita), who had
done most of his racing about Newcastle,
has been consistency itself on his present
visit to metropolitan tracks.
••••••
Only five came out for the principal
event, the Bank Holiday Handicap, of 1-j
miles. It proved the softest of soft snaps
for Own Folk (The Buzzard-Merle’s
Robe). Taking the lead from Silver Joan
with three furlongs to go, Own Folk won
in hollow style by some seven or eight
lengths, Hamurah beating Silver Joan for
second money, and Cid tailing the pro-
cession.
* * * *
Geebung has become a Caulfield Cup
fancy in Melbourne because Clem Hill
has let him in with 6.10, whereas the
son of Bold and Bad-Western Lass has
7.10 in the Epsom and 7.8 in the Metro-
politan and the Melbourne Cup. Hitherto
risks taken by Hill with horses he has
handicapped have been justified, and he
may have the same gratifying experience
in this instance. Geebung has given no
evidence of being a stayer. He failed in
the last Epsom and was third in the Vil-
liers —with 7.7. However, he is trained
by Frank McGrath, and Melbourne rac-
ing people have great respect for the
Randwick veteran’s judgment and his
knowledge of what is required of a Caul-
field Cup candidate.
* * * *
Feminist is back on the Randwick
tracks, in appearance a much improved
mare since the autumn, when she proved
herself a real stayer. If she trains on, she
will have to be reckoned with in whatever
spring handicap may be chosen for her —
she has 7.11 in the Metropolitan, 7.13 in
the Caulfield Cup and 7.9 in the Mel-
bourne Cup. The Caulfield Cup should
suit her, for she has a knack of leaving
the barrier smartly and settling down in
a good position—decided recommenda-
tions for such a race. But the stable may
be influenced by the fact that 10 years
ago her dam, Loquacious, won the
Metrop.—with 8.11 —at the same age—
four years. Loquacious was a sister to
Windbag, one of the greatest horses ever
seen on an Australian racecourse, and
Feminist was sired by Pantheon, a
splendid stayer who was unlucky not to
win a Melbourne Cup. Between the
autumn and spring of 1939, Loquacious
came on rapidly, and the impression
exists that her daughter will turn out
quite as good.
* * * $
The Duke of Kent is to race two horses
in Australia, and Jack Holt will train
them at Mordialloc (Vic.). The animals.
Dhoti and Moon Ray, were presented
to the Duke by the Aga Khan, and have
pretty good English records. Moonray
is credited with a mile in 1.35, and if
he can do that in Australia he may win
the Cantala Stakes or the Doncaster. Yet
Dhoti is reputed to be the better of the
pair.
* * * *
Dick Wootton’s son Stanley is men-
tioned by the London “Times” in a notice
of the death of Crouch, the King’s jockey,
whose passing was so sudden that his
friends received invitations to his wed-
ding, that never happened, on the day
that he weighed in for the last time.
Stanley Wootton is referred to as “that
great teacher of riders.” Crouch was one
of his pupils.
(“Sporting Notions” continued on
next page)
FOR CAULFIELD.
Australian Steeple: Giant Killer ;
next, Mustella.
Malakoff Stakes: Diaphane;
next, Old Serpent or Judean.
St. Aubin Welter: Footmark;
next, Tetreen or Old Serpent.
FOR ROSEBERY.
Lakes Welter: Casicasado ; next,
Bristol.
Cape Solander Handicap: Pen-
thides; next, El Valor.
Sir Joseph Banks Handicap:
Own Folk or Cherry Bar; next,
Sydney.
Kingsford Handicap: Fox Foote
or Cherry Bar; next, Hope.


IF YOU ROLL YOUR OWN
CIGARETTES
USE THE BEST ,
PAPERS
YOU CAN BUY
e
WAX
i TIPPED
3 D AND 6“
PACKET
SAVE MONEY
w
ITS
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
ll newJD
CHAMPIONS
B
Mew
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
Bring
GREATER POWER
Worn-out spark plugs are the
thief of power. Install new
Champions and see the dif-
ference in speed, acceleration
and power.They soon pay for
themselves, too, in the fuel
they save.
An Empire Product —made in Windsor, Can.
“I cant take it now , 'Erb. Must be gettin' punch-drunk or somethin'."
M.Q. and Rafferty
Wilson Outclasses Young
The return encounter of Jackie Wilson
(Bst. 13j1b.) and Kui Kong Young (Bst.
81b.) at the Rushcutter Bay Stadium was
no race. Jackie won it in a common
canter. He took so many of the dozen
rounds that judgment can afford to be
wildly generous and allow that Kui may
have won the third, and may have cut
even in the fourth and seventh.
That allowed, the comedic little negro
completely outclassed him. To many—
by the sound of them —it was a disap-
pointing scrap ; but that must have been
a matter of false expectations, based on
goodness knows what grounds. For in
the pair’s previous encounter Jackie was
winning easily when Kui fouled him.
The only possible hope there could be
for Kui was to get home his hearty left
rip to the tummy. It’s his only punch,
and watching it and guarding against it
was child’s play to Jackie.
The disappointment couldn’t have
been over Wilson’s performance. The
little negro gave a dandy display, none
the worse for his having mercifully
clowned the last couple of rounds,
smilingly toying with Kui when he could
have massacred him. Nothing more effec-
tive in the points-scoring punching line has
been seen since Jack Carroll turned the
game in. Wilson wasn’t awkward to get
at, as Carroll used to be, though, save
for a while in the second, fourth and
seventh, Kui found him quite a hope-
less proposition in that regard. Where
Jackie was reminiscent of Jack was in his
ability to get home a scoring punch from
wherever his glove happened to be. He
hit successfully from all ranges and all
angles, and most unexpectedly. Mostly—
as Carroll’s used to do—it looked like
mere flicking, but it was really waspish
and, as Kui’s dial in time recorded, very
punishing. When it was over Kui must
have thought he’d been fighting a nest
of bull-ants with his phiz.
Kui’s left cheekbone was slightly cut
in the fourth round —the first sign of
damage seen on him since he invaded
these parts. By the end of hostilities
there wasn’t a pore on his whole dial
that hadn’t been damaged. From the
opening bell Kui looked somewhat non-
plussed. Jackie declined to let him get
set for a second. Moving to his left
hand, and so keeping the southpaw off
his balance, he kept peppering away with
flicking left leads to the face, with
solid rights now and then, and occasional
heavy right rips to the solar which, more
than anything else, took the ginger out
of Kui. Most of the bout Kui was stay-
ing there in the clinches, having to be
dragged off by Mr. Wallis. Kui at times
tried hard enough, but, wilting under
Jackie’s incessant attack, he was not
much more than a target over the last
half of the fight, though he did shake
Jackie up a bit with a sitting shot that
got home under the ribs in the seventh.
From there on Jackie just scored as he
pleased, and what happened to Kui’s ap-
pearance was almost sinful.
Jim Starr was unwise enough to go up
against the Alabama Kid again at West
Melbourne Stadium last week. With a
left to the body and a right to the point,
the black knocked him out in the fifth
round. Starr had led on points for three
rounds, but he was not in good shape,
and seemed deadbeat in the fourth. On
the same night Harry Fields, the Vic-
torian featherweight, went 12 rounds with
the Mexican Moreno, giving him two
pounds. Moreno is no champion, and
Fields may never reach that class, but
he boxed pretty well, and took his pun-
ishment like a man.
* * * *
Fred Henneberry has had a setback in
England. Boxing the Welsh middleweight
Dai Jones in London, he was disquali-
fied in the third round for butting. He
himself Was butted in the first round,
coming in head-down and receiving a
bump which opened that old eye-wound.
Jones boxed on the defensive, and, being
clever that way, suffered no damage until
the third, when the Australian got home
with solid body blows, the Welshman
retaliating with two punches on the bad
eye. Ducking under a swing, Henneberry
brought his head against Jones’s ribs, and
the referee said he had seen enough.
Report says that the decision surprised
as well as disappointed the crowd.
* * * *
“Snow”: I have vivid recollections of
my first meeting with Billy Murphy in
Auckland. It was after he had re-
turned to his native town from the
U.S.A. Half a dozen of us were in-
vited by a hairdresser to meet Billy at
his place of business, and as he sat in
one of the chairs without entering into
the conversation Murphy didn’t measure
up to my ideas of a champion. Presently
our host addressed him, saying, “What a
wonderful fight it must have been, Billy,
that scrap for the championship with the
Belfast Spider!” With a bound the thin
man was out of the chair, and for ten
minutes or more we dodged, ducked and
side-stepped as the fedder shadow-
sparred and flung punches from every
angle at a wholly imaginary Weir. We
were a very relieved crowd when he sub-
sided into his chair, again without having
uttered a word.
Footbrawl
Melbourne, Collingwood, Richmond
and St. Kilda are still “the four” in
V.F.L. football, but Carlton is pressing
St. Kilda hard. The others are out of it.
Against Footscray on Saturday Carlton
went all out to improve its percentage,
and goals came along plentifully. At the
finish Carlton had 24.15 to 9.17. That
trip must have agreed with it.
Melbourne played good soiid football
against North—l4.lB to 9.6. But St. Kilda
slipped a couple of notches, letting Col-
lingwood up into second place. ’Wood
always had the edge on Saints, finishing
with 18.8 to 13,11. Richmond wasn’t
worried by “Sowth’s” spotting tactics —
18.15 to 12.6.
Of the rest, Essendon did best, jumping
up a couple of places by handing Gee-
long a thorough hiding, 15.17 to 6.11.
Behinds gave Hawthorn a win over Fitz-
roy, but it was the nearest of near things,
10.20 to 12.7.
* * * *
“S.T.C.”: Vic. Richardson, who, be-
sides being a Test cricketer, was for years
captain of the S.A. XVIII, has been
appointed coach to football umpires in
Adelaide. He has announced his inten-
tion of getting a fair trial for the “new
rule” that is so generally unpopular. In
the Australian code, to ensure fast play,
a man has to get rid of the ball immedi-
ately on being collared. Naturally he
would wish to kick (of hit) it on ; if
unable to do either, he had to drop it.
The new rule now says that he must kick
or hit it, and umpires have been taking
this too literally, so that a man who is
thrown to the ground, with the ball flying
out of his grasp, may find a free kick
given to his assailant. Richardson will,
apparently, just enforce the common-
sensible view of reading the words i
anyway possible” into the rule.
* * * * ,
Gordon leads again in Sydney’s Rugby
Union competition, thanks in part t
University. The Students are striking
top form at last; but they’ll need a couple
of wins to make the semi-finals. L>n
Saturday they came from behind to draw
with Northern Suburbs, 14-14. North *
now shares second place with RandwicK.
West and East drew also, 21-21, West
rapidly making up a leeway of ten points
after it seemed all over. East missed its
chances with penalties, but managed five
tries to three. Gordon will need to play
better than against Manly. The Villagers
put in a scratch team —four of its lads
had appeared in the second-grade game
against the leaders, but notched three
tries to the highlanders’ one. Goals won
for Gordon, 15-9.
Parramatta early tackled the Randwick
backs before they got a chance to move,
and came off at lemons 14-6 ahead. Then
the ’Mattans lost their outside centre,
Jones, and they went to pieces: 'Wick
20-14. Drummoyne v. St. George was
dismal for Saints and spectators: Drum-
moyne 23-nil.
“Q.C.R.”: Amid the welter of inter-
national affairs the flapper press seems
to have missed the deadly combat in
progress between the two small States oi
Longreach and Winton (C.Q.), It is
being fought on the League Rugby foot-
ball field, but every resident of each
town is heart and soul in the fray.
Winton won the battle of Longreach by
11 to 9. It was conducted amid shouts
of rage. Once the Longreach captain led
his men from the field saying that the
referee had lost control. They came
back, and Longreach frothed at the
mouth as one man when Winton kicked
a penalty goal. The invaders went home
to Winton covered with bruises, after
having challenged the Longreach men to
play another game for £lOO a side under
a new referee.
* * * *
By a convincing 19-5 win over South
Sydney, Balmain joins St. George at the
top of the Sydney Rugby League class.
South has been a peculiarly in-and-out
team this season. Right through some
matches and through portions of others
it has played splendid football, only to
lapse unaccountably. This chink in its
armor proved expensive in Saturday’s
game. Backs and forwards combined
well to hold the big Balmain pack in the
first half, and a little luck with a dis-
puted try would have given South a
slender lead at the interval. But there-
after the black-and-golds did as they
liked.
Eastern Suburbs played well to defeat
by 13 to 5 the well-balanced St. George
side. The tricolored back line hammered
home the advantage of a preponderance
of ball from the scrums. Newtown,
thanks in a great measure to its skipper’s


THE BEST TIP
FOR TO-DAY
DAN) L
CRAWFORDS
GENUINE OLD SCOTCH
WHISKY
Makes OL®
dental
CLEAN as new
BEFORE
Fill the cap of the tin
with 'Steradent’ and'
pour the powder into a
glass containing sufficient'
warm water (not hot) to
cover the dentures—Stir )
well —Put in your dentures
and leave them while you
dress or overnight and take
them out and rinse thoroughly
under the tap. Stains vanish.
Discoloured plates and 'gums’ regain their
natural-looking colour. Dull, yellow-tinged
teeth become clean—lustrous, like 'live’ teeth.
'Steradent’ is sold by all Chemists. Price 2/-,
double size 3/6.
IMPORTANT: Be sure you get 'Steradent'.
Dentists recommend it.
RECKITTS (OVER SEA) LIMITED
(Pharmaceutical Dept.), SYDNEY
AFTER
Steradent
R£CD. TRADE MARK
THE
lIMITCIVNsurance
U 11 1 I CII COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. O. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
I
;
K-
r. -
lookjatß^
3-TON, 133" W.B. CHASSIS (Dual Rear)
with 7.00 x2O tyres - - £332/10/0
with 32 x6x 10 tyres - £340/ 0/0
3-TOW, 158 r W.B. CHASSIS (Dual Rear)
with 7.00 x2O tyres - - £341/10/0
with 32 x6x 10 tyres - £349/ 0/0
Chevrolet also offers a complete range of
low-priced Utilities, Commercials and
Trucks. Full particulars and prices from
your local dealer.
Utility 10-12 cwt. Chassis from - - £2SS
Commercial IS cwt. Chassis from - £247
Truck Chassis from ....... £267
Heavy-Duty “Maple Leaf”
3J ton Chassis from ...... £342
Heavy-Duty “Maple Leaf”
4-ton Chassis from ...... £3Bl
Easy Terms Available Under Confidential
G.M.A.C. Plan.
Australia’s Greatest 3-ton Truck Value
For sheer value for money, the new 1939 Chevrolet 3-tonner is a winner !
It gives you the finest 3-ton truck engineering and design, at the most
amazingly economical price, and is available in 133! and in.
wheelbases.
Powered with the famous Chevrolet Overhead Valve slow-revving
truck engine (which never needs replacing), this great new Chevrolet
is built to stay on the job day in and day out —to give the dependable,
economical service for which Chevrolet Trucks are world famous.
Compare features and prices with those for any other 3-ton truck, and
you’ll find that this new Chevrolet is the greatest 3-ton truck proposition
ever offered on the Australian market. See your nearest Chevrolet
dealer and arrange for a test on your own job 1
The Best Features For Profitable 3-ton Haulage—
6-cyl. Overhead Valve Truck Engine with Torque (pulling power) of
170 ft. lbs. at 850 r.p.m.—equal to 2 m.p.h. in low gear; “Full Contact”
Hydraulic Brakes (16 in. x 2 in. linings rear—14 in. x 2 in. linings
front); Cast Iron Pistons ; Four Speed Transmission ; Full Floating
Rear Axle with Straddle-mounted Pinion (gives first gear lift of 46-1);
Sturdy one-piece Axle Housing; Extra-strength Frame, springs and
rear wheel equipment; New All-steel Holden Cab.
w
TRUCKS,MIMS
and COMMERCIALS
A GENERAL MOTORS VALUE
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia. GENERAL MOTORS HOLDEN'S LIMITED C6BI-27
fine kicking, shaded Western Suburbs
14-13, and Canterbury-Bankstown beat
North Sydney 22-10 in a ragged game.
* * * *
Goodyear, by defeating the strong St.
George side 2-o,.rolled away to a six-point
lead in the N.S.W. State Soccer League.
The tyremakers have the premiership in
the bag, as only the football miracle of
a leading team suffering five defeats in
a row can rob them of the honor—it will
be their third in succession. On Satur-
day Saints’ forwards threw all they had
into it, but the opposing rearguard had
an answer for everything. On the day’s
’Year could have beaten the Pales-
tine side. Wallsend, in second place,
drew 2-all with Weston in a cracker-paced
match, and Metters kept up the pressure
to beat Granville 7-2. Leichhardt ran all
over Newcastle, 5-1 ; Woonona-Bulli de-
feated Cessnock, 7-4, and Adamstown
downed Gladesville-Ryde, 4-2.
* * :jc jfc
Although Australia had already won
the rubber, there were more vigor and
skill thrown into the fifth Soccer Test
in Melbourne than in most of the earlier
ones. On a heavy ground the Pales-
tinians flashed a well-controlled ball from
wing to wing to cut through opposition
that was giving nothing away, and at the
breather they had a brace of goals to
spare.
Immediately on the resumption the
Australian forwards, led by George Smith,
who replaced Quill in the centre, surged
into Palestinian territory, and plied head
and boot to such purpose that the leeway
was made up. A dour struggle followed
to the long whistle, when it was called
a day at 4-all—the only draw of the
series. Power, the Victorian custodian,
acquitted himself well.
Nineteenth Hole
Without saying that woman’s place is
in the home or anything like that, Royal
Melbourne’s match committee rejected
Babe Didrikson’s nomination for the Aus-
tralian Open, to be played on the club’s
west course on August 24, 25 and 26.
The lady was hurt, but her wrestler-hus-
band seemed rather relieved. He said
she had been playing too much competi-
tive golf, and was tired out.
In Queensland Miss Didrikson had
four matches with professionals of the
other sex and won three. One of her
victims was Walker, the State profes-
sional champion last year; going round
Yeerongpilly in 76, she defeated him
4 and 2. Southerners summed her up as
a great driver, but a very so-so putter.
Her putting must have improved in
Queensland.
Still more aggrieved than the lady from
America was the Queensland Golf
Council, which had arranged to send a
team of seven to Melbourne. Royal
Melbourne received 185 nominations and
rejected 50 on the ground that the origi-
nal number was too many for the course
and the time of the year. Its ban fell on
entrants with handicaps over two from
standard scratch and five from par. That
ruled out five of the seven Queenslanders,
Westralians as well. Only a few clubs
in three States are privileged to stage
open championships, and they make their
own rules. The A.G.U. will now have
to deal with protests from all under-
privileged golfers.
* * * *
Adelaide has been entertaining women
golfers from all the States, and pro-
nounced superiority has been shown by
the Victorians. Playing at Kooyonga for
the Gladys Hay Memorial Cup, the Vic-
torian girls beat Queensland four
matches to one. In the final they over-
came the Westraliennes, who had im-
pressed all hands by defeating N.S.W.
three matches to two.
In the foursomes championship of Aus-
tralia, Victorians finished first and
second and tied for third. Miss Joan
Lewis and her sister won with a score
of 163, a stroke better than Mrs.
Smithett and Miss Kernot, Mrs.
Smithett very nearly making a draw of it.
Miss MacLeod and Miss Cheney (Vic.)
and Miss Rankin (N.S.W.) and Mrs.
Gardiner (Q.) divided third place with
cards of 170. Then, in the qualifying
rounds of the Australian championship,
Miss Joan Lewis led the field with 80
and 72—the lowest score on record in
play for an Australian women’s
championship. The young N.S.W. girl,
Miss Crago, who had lost to Mrs.
McKissock (W.A.) in the Memorial
Cup matches, finished second with 156 ;
she had previously cut the course record
to 76.
Miscellaneous
“Stumps”: R. J. A. Massie has become
one of the vice-presidents of the
N.S.W.C.A. in place of N. Blue. He was
a very fine left-hand bowler before a war
wound put him among the lookers-on.
In first-class cricket he had taken 53
wickets at 21.18. Jack is a son of the
Massie who, 57 years ago, playing in the
greatest of all Test matches, hit up 55
(top score) in the second innings, and
helped Australia to win by seven runs.
* * * *
“Joanne”: Sydney University cricket
club, though formed in ’66, hadn’t had
a patron until the other night when, at
the annual meeting, A. B. S. White was
appointed. He is the father of Ted
White, a member of the last Australian
XI, and he himself plays with the Uni-
versity Veterans. Ted is a triple Blue —
cricket, football and hockey.
* * * *
“Fitzjay”: “M.C.C.’s” statement (B.
26/7/’39) that there is no instance of a
father and son having played for Aus-
tralia in Test cricket is not correct. Ned
Gregory played in the first Test match
against England in 1877, and his son
Syd, starting in 1890, played in many
Tests. Another son, Charlie, probably
would have been a Test-player, tod, but
for a breakdown in health. Seven of the
Gregory clan played for N.S.W.
Viv McGrath, product of Sydney’s
Eastern Suburbs hardcourts, came to light
with his best tennis for two years to
notch the national hardcourt singles
title at Toowoomba, beating Gilchrist
3-6, 7-5, 7-5, 6-0. Trailing 2-5 in the
vital third set, the two-handed player let
fly everything in his locker to take 11
games in a row and the match. Thelma
Coyne, after eliminating Nancye Wynne,
who played erratically, was beaten in the
final of the women’s singles by the greatly-
improved May Hardcastle. The Queens-
lander, heartened by a solid victory over
national grass- and hardcourt titles-
holder Mrs. Westacott, drove off both
hands with delightful freedom, to win
6- 6-4. McGrath and Bennett won the
men’s doubles from Gilchrist and Lindo
7- 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. The women’s doubles
went to a new N.S.W. combination,
Misses Hayes and Farrell, who van-
quished Misses Wynne and Coyne, the
national grasscourt champions, 6-4, 1-6,
7-5, and Mrs. Westacott and Miss Hard-
castle, the hardcourt title-holders, 4-6,
6-2, 6-2.
* * * *
By beating Germany, three matches to
two, in the European-zone final, the Yugo-
slavs qualified to meet the winners of
the Australia-Cuba match for the right
to enter the Davis Cup challenge
round. Fearing that he was in the
sere and yellow, the Teutons dropped
Menzel from the singles. The replace-
ment, Goepfert, was a flop, being beaten
hollow by both Mitic and Puncec.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: The promoters of Mel-
bourne’s Spring Carnival had great ideas
of arranging rowing races between gals
from the various States as a special at-
traction at Henley-on-the-Yarra. Unfor-
tunately, there is an ancient rule which
says that women cannot compete in races
on the same programme as men. This is
a matter for subdued rejoicings among
rowing men.


w
Twice. Daily -2iS~&
AT THE
SYDNEY
Twice Daily 230-3
The Empire’s Most Famous Jester,
GEORGE ROBEY,
and His Biff New Company of Variety.
“HIGHLIGHTS FROM HOLLYWOOD.’
ANNA MAT WONG,
the Famous Stage and Screen Star,
and Big New Company Stars.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“The Story of Vernon and
Irene Castle.”
Fred Astaire, Ginger Rogers.
Let it be said first of all, and with bells
on, that this Sydney Regent opus is a
rattling good film.
Fred-p/ns-Ginger addicts will surely
rave over it, for this dazzling pair of
hoofers —in partnership again after many
months of unsatisfying lone-hand hoofing
—are in the spotlight throughout, splen-
didly dancing dozens of dances, and in
the brief moments between dances enact-
ing the private and public life of the once-
famed dancing couple of the title.
That story, as presented, is a romantic
variation on the theme of artistic struggle
—unappreciated talent striving for recog-
nition, winning it through a sheer stroke
of luck, then enjoying for a while un-
bounded and magnificent success, before
the adage concerning the way of the gods
with those they love is applied to them.
Whether the pretty romantic version
presented is true in all details or not, no
better medium could have been chosen to
enable Fred and Ginger to display their
considerable talents. As the story of the
Castles. is related, Vernon was a young
Englishman acting as stooge in a comedy
turn in an American theatre when he met
Irene through both of them trying to save
a doggie from the water at a seaside
resort Admitting to being on the stage,
he was taken home to see Irene do a
dancing turn, she being famous in local
amateur theatricals. Subsequently she
saw him in his turn, was disgusted at his
low-comedy part, put it to him that he
was prostituting the sparkling genius resi-
dent in his tootsies, and, after some
earnest effort, dragged him along to the
altar.
Hitched, they headed out on the rocky
road to recognition. Soon they were in
Paris and down to their last cent; then
an eccentric old girl in the person of Edna
May Oliver helped them get their shining
tootsies on to the silver ladder, and be-
fore long they were the rage of a couple
of continents. Meanwhile, they were
idealistic lovers offstage; then the war,
with Vernon in the Canadian Flying
Corps ; separation, with occasional meet-
ings (and dance); at last, tragedy.
Altogether a much better story than
usually goes with such films, and the
opportunities it offers Fred and Ginger
are obvious. If anything, they have both
improved since they were last out to-
gether. Their dancing is so extraordi-
narily fine that, good as the story is, the
real suspense in the film is in the waiting
for them to be dancing yet once more.
Some of the dance arrangements are per-
haps the best they have ever appeared in.
In that respect the film-makers have done
as good a job as the principals do. There
are engagingly novel effects, as, for
example, in a dance in which Fred and
Ginger hoof over a map of the U.S.A.,
and as they float on from one State to
another a dark blur on each spot they
vacate quickly grows to be a swarm of
Lilliputian humans doing their dances.
As a romantic story, with dance, it’s
a most attractive opus.
It occurs as a curious sidelight on the
narrative art that a narrator with an out-
look different from the romantic Holly-
wood brand could have made a telling
story —and a mighty poor film —out of
the same material. “Stooge,” of course,
is a Yank term for the butt in comedy
turns; the term by now enlarged to have
a much wider application. Vernon, when
Irene sets eyes on him on stage, is stooge
to one Fields in a comedy barber turn.
This, as explained, fills Irene with dis-
gust. So she gets him away from it; and
what—the realist would suggest —does
Vernon become but the stooge of Irene
as her dancing partner! The war comes,
and Vernon goes to it —allegedly at the
pull of patriotism. In the elegant argot
lrene’s countrymen, Oh, yeah! The
realist would say he went because he was
damn’ well fed up with being a mere
stooge. The war offered the opportunity
for individual expression of his male ego.
The realist might go on to suggest that
therein lies one of the factors that make
enlistments for wars possible ; that there
are hundreds of thousands of men enact-
ing the role of stooge in life —not neces-
sarily to a woman —who’d spring to it for
that reason and that reason alone.
Maybe. Anyway, that isn’t the Holly-
wooden version. Hollywood makes of
it all a very pretty story unfolded in a
very pretty film.
“Man of Conquest.”
Richard Dix, Gail Patrick.
It’s a knock in the optic for producers
of the million-dahlar opus that this inex-
pensively made offering at Sydney
Lyceum licks to a frazzle any recently-
shown, cahlahssal, spectacular film on a
similar theme. Cut free of spectacle and
James Stewart (in disguise) and Claudette Colbert trying to escape from the
eagle eye of Nat Pendleton in "lt’s a Wonderful World,” at Sydney Liberty.
lavish decoration the yarn goes ahead
at a rattling good pace, and is much more
direct and coherent than if it had been
burdened down with a few thousand feet
of filmic scenery.
According to its depiction of the life
of Samuel Houston, Mr. Houston spent
his youth turning down clerking jobs to
go bush with the Injuns. Later he took
to politics until an unsatisfactory mar-
riage and the gossip aroused thereby
drove him from the public eye and back
to the Injuns again. He returned to take
up their case with the Government, and
then shifted camp to Texas, which State
was then trying to free itself from Mexi-
can rule. Under Houston the Texan
army routed the Mexican, and a few
years later Texas joined the United States.
With capable direction and tip-top
characterisation by Dix the rugged char-
acter of Houston emerges pretty thor-
oughly, keeping the film on an even keel
and maintaining a strong, consistent
thread of interest throughout. Edward
Ellis turns in some neat work as “Stone-
wall” Jackson, and Gail Patrick, as
Houston’s second wife, is an appreciable
spot of feminine decoration.
“It’s a Wonderful World.”
Claudette Colbert, James Stewart.
Though both Miss Colbert and Mr.
Stewart have had more and better oppor-
tunities than those offered in this main
current item at Sydney Liberty, they
manage to whip the proceedings up to a
fair pitch of damnfoolishness and keep
’em moving at an appropriate pace from
start to fadeout.
He’s a private sleuth trying to outwit
the police long enough to prove his em-
ployer is not guilty of a murder charge,
and she’s a poetess or something; he
first kidnaps her to get her away from
the police, and then she kidnaps him to
keep him away from anyone else. What
with being nearly killed, kiboshed or cap-
tured and experiencing sundry other
pother, the pair of them manage to fill
in the running time without any effort
for themselves or the audience.
“The Kid from Texas,” support at the
Liberty, is in similar vein to the main
feature, and has Mr. Denis O’Keefe as
cowpuncher-cwm-polo-player offending
“all four thousand of America’s first four
hundred” and gradually bringing Miss
Florence Rice round to his way of think-
ing.
“Rose of Washington Square.”
Alice Faye, Tyrone Power.
Sydney Plaza nourishes this somewhat
faded bloom with its ladles of lurv-
interest and its sentimental ditties. It’s a
fair enough stretch for those who like
such fare; present film-taster must own
to a strong aversion to the syrupy, senti-
mental vaudeville of early post-war years.
Sweet Alice yawps her heart out across
the footlights for Mr. Power, who is a
crook, and who marries her and tries to
reform but doesn’t and then goes up for
a stretch and promises he’ll be reformed
when he returns. Mr. Power manages to
appear a little indecisive at times, but he
isn’t very villainous —except, perhaps, as
an actor.
A 1 Jolson, possibly because he’s still
exactly the same A 1 Jolson as he was 10
years ago and is still blackening his face
and still yawping the same negro ditties
as he did then, is the most entertaining
customer in the film.
“Libel”
“Libel,” the play by Edward Wooll
introduced professionally to Melbourne
at the Comedy last week, concerns Mark
Loddon, heir to an English estate and
title, who goes to the Great War, is cap-
tured and interned and makes his escape
with two Canadian fellow-prisoners. A
man calling himself Mark subsequently
turns up in Mark’s native county, and
claims the title and estate and the girl
to whom Mark Loddon was formerly
affianced. They marry, have a baby and
settle down to married felicity.
Then Sir Mark goes in for Parliament,
and, having been elected, attracts the
attention of the “Daily Gazette,” a
paper with a million circulation which
belongs to the opposite political party.
It publishes a statement that Sir Mark
is not Sir Mark, but an impostor, and
therefore Lady Loddon is not married to
Sir Mark and Sir Mark is not the father
of her child.
At this point the matter is taken to
court as a case for libel, and at this
point also it arrived on the stage at the
Comedy with the audience impanelled as
the jury.
The libel gradually develops into a pos-
sible case for a charge of murder, there
being strong suspicions that Sir Mark,
if he is not Sir Mark, murdered the real
Sir Mark in order to attain to the in-
heritance, a necessary adjunct to which
is Sir Mark’s fiancee. To make matters
worse a Belgian doctor produces in court
a mindless man who may be Sir Mark,
supposedly left for dead by his would-be
murderer but resuscitated later in hospital.
Sir Mark, if he is Sir Mark is thus con-
fronted with a piece of living evidence
which, if he can prove that it is not him-
self but some other individual, perhaps
a German soldier, will show him to be
no impostor. If he is not Sir Mark, but
the impersonator, and the mindless man
is Sir Mark, then he stands accused of a
particularly atrocious attempted murder.
Lady Loddon, who is present in court,
is in an even more painful position than
her husband, inasmuch as they are very
much in love with each other. If her
husband is an impostor she is married
to the man who murdered or tried to
murder the man she thinks she married.
This is an improbable, but not im-
possible, human situation with emotional
possibilities that, described by a Tolstoy,
would freeze the marrow in the bones
of even the dullest first-night audience.
As told at the Comedy it was a first-rate
thrill for the student of dramatic cross-
word puzzles, ending in a breathless rush
of coincidences about which this paper
is obliged to remain silent, under promise
to the management. The court proceed-
ings were precise and particular down to
the last detail, rehearsals having been
supervised by eminent local counsel.
lan Keith, an imported actor, restrain-
fully conveyed the plaintiff’s agitation in
a series of difficult situations, and Doris
Packer made a fairly good struggle with
the part of Lady Loddon, but was in-
clined to be affected. Ben Lewin was
the unusually fatheaded Judge of the
King’s Bench Division, and Harvey
Adams was the admirably suave counsel
for defendants. Reginald Newsome was
the most convincing witness, and Hori
Thomas, as the resurrected victim, would
have been unendurably horrible if the
play had been more living. But the out'
standing performance was that of Alec
Pratt, the tall, big-voiced “Age” journal-
ist who has been making a name for him-
self in amateur productions. In his first
professional appearance he gave an out-
standing rendering of the hectoring
counsel for the plaintiff.
“The Women” Again.
Members of the cast praised Sydney
Minerva highly when “The Women”
came to that address, but the settings,
though they’d been perfectly satisfactory
at the Royal, didn’t suit the new theatre.
Looking into the stage was too much like
looking into a box.
Debby Dare replaced Irene Purcell as
the injured Mary Haines and held the
play together very capably. Aileen
Britton was a welcome newcomer, and
Minnie Love, portraying the much-mar-
ried Countess de Lage, was —if not very
credible —very amusing.
Watching from a box on the first night
was Joy Howarth, who, having been the
Bad Blonde in the Wodehouse play that
had just finished its season, was able to
study Mary Dees in exactly the same sort
of role in “The Women.” Playwrights
seem to have a gentlemanly preference
for blondes, and Miss Dees, as Miss
Howarth had, put plenty of life into the
convention of unconventionality.
Comedy Harmonists.
Melbourne Town Hall was crammed
for the return of the Comedy Harmonists
on Saturday. The quintet of cosmo-
politan gentlemen are physically as diver-
sified in shape as the instruments they
simulate.
The long thin one, for instance, looks
like one of those perkakases which extend
and contract while making sympathetic
noises.
The simulation of instruments formed
a large part of the programme, too large,
possibly, for some people, who would
have preferred to hear more of the Har-
monists’ skill in Schubert and Brahms,
whom they can sing beautifully. But the
bulk of the audience showed a fine catho-
licity of taste and applauded the screwy
items as vigorously as it did the “Liebes-
lied” of Kreisler, a heavenly number.


The Smallest, Lightest and Most Complete
Portable in the World
"The Baby ’
EMPIRE
No other typewriter at this price
can give you all these features.
Completely standard keyboard
Interlineator
Paper support
Right and Left Margins and release
English STEEL typebars
Card holder and paper bail
FULL length cylinder
FULL length ribbon
Automatic ribbon reverse
Weigh
BJib. Made in England, and it’s
RUST resisting.
Price
£1212/-
Cash or Easy Terms.
Bunco Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
ii , „. 21 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Jackson & 0 Sullivan,
. , „ Queen Street, Brisbane.
John Withers & Son Pty., Ltd.,
t v ii «_ „ Q ue en Street, Melbourne
L. Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd.,
tt n ~ , „ 43 Creek Street, Brisbane.
Holdsworth & Co., Ltd.,
r AvP'P: Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
J. Walsh & Sons Pty., Ltd.,
l3O Macquarie Street, Hobart.
\
m
sBs
GET OVERSEAS HEWS
as clearly as local Broadcasts
on the ultimate !
Never has European history been stepped
up to such a high tempo. News to-day
is entirely changed to-morrow. Keep in
direct touch with overseas situations,
with 'ULTIMATE' Champion Radio.
'Ultimate' Champion Radio is custom-
built to give matchless performance. Every
ultra-modern radio luxury is incorporated.
Overseas stations can be perfectly tuned,
even by a child. Overseas reception
strength is equal to that obtained in
ordinary sets from local stations.
There is no 'surge' .... just crystal-clear
reception, whether it's Moscow or Mel-
bourne, Berlin or Adelaide.
Models are available for either A.C. or
battery operation, and a cabinet choice
of either a full console or handsome
mantel model. 'Ultimate' Champion radio
costs nothing to test!
did W* ?
KNOW
.. ~ ha‘ rtz
bro “ d n a J in Eng IW'
sessions Listen
every the
wo 10 p»*
“"ill 12 19 P 74 me ,res
Djß mid 12 p.»n*
-10 p.w** antt 1
Clip this
Coupon
To-day.
e
Log Chart giving positive identification
oi over 400 overseas stations, and details
oi 'Ultimate' Champion Radio.
Name—
Addressu
GO
GEORGE BROWN & CO. PTY. LTD., 267 Clarence St., Sydney.
Dupre Organ Recitals.
Marcel Dupre, organist, opened his
Sydney season at the Town Hall last
week under A.B.C. auspices.
Claims have been made that Mr.
Dupre is the world’s greatest organist
but as there are in the world at least
6000 highly-qualified musicians in this
field, and as they very rarely travel far
and opportunities of comparison are not
numerous, superlative claims mean little.
Present critic, in 30 years of concert-
going, has heard only three organists
who by reason of their migrations had
acquired some sort of international
lame, and memories of them are not par-
ticularly vivid.
That Mr. Dupre •is an excellent
organist and an accomplished musician
goes without saying, and his facility in
extemporisation is remarkable. But it
is probable that most of the tens of
thousands of broadcast listeners at the
first recital (who didn’t hear the im-
provisation) and of the thousand or so
of people who paid for admittance to the
Town Hall would have noticed no dif-
ference had Mr. Dupre been taken ill
and Mr. Truman had deputised for
him.
The programme consisted of one of
the minor Bach “sinfonias,” Liszt’s
variations and fugue on the notes
B.A.C.H. (in German B flat, A natural,
C natural and B natural), Cesar Franck’s
A major fantasie and Widor’s “Gothic
Symphony”—grandiose but not particu-
larly important works. Variations on a
theme handed up by Mr. Frank
Hutchens concluded the recital, an extra-
ordinary feature of which was a spot-
light directed on-the organist’s legs.
For his Friday-night’s recital, M.
Dupre provided more robust fare—two
first-class works of Bach and an arrange-
ment of Handel’s Third Organ Concerto.
Some variations of his own on an old
air and improvisations on a theme sup-
plied by Dr. Edgar Bainton concluded
the proceedings.
At Saturday night’s recital, in addition
to playing some great works of Bach and
Handel, the organist improvised a whole
symphony from four themes supplied re-
spectively by Roy Agnew, Dr. Edgar
Bainton, Lindley Evans and Frank Hut-
chens. It sounded well, and had balance
and conviction.
A free recital on Sunday afternoon
brought such a crowd that hundreds had
to be turned away—among them M.
Dupre, who was not admitted till a search
party found him among a mob round a
side door. He had been told to go and
wait at the end of the queue.
Marjorie Lawrence.
Sydney felt it hadn’t done the fair
thing by letting a Marjorie Lawrence
recital get squeezed off the map, and
took steps to make amends. Result was
a bumper house at the Town Hall on
Thursday night, a radiant Lawrence, and
so much applause that the singers had to
sort of wedge their offerings in be-
tween it.
The young Australian diva went
through the whole gamut of her talents,
opening with the Valkyrie battle-cry of
Brunnhilde, which electrified the house,
subsiding into the calmer waters of
Schubert, Hugo Wolf and Richard
Strauss, and winding up with “My Ain
Folk,” which she sang with very deep
feeling, having just called the audience
“darlings.”
The movement for appeasement has
even caught the A.B.C. in its aura. Part
of Marjorie’s Thursday night’s recital
was broadcast by 2FC, and for this week
the Commission decided to give the singer
the backing up of its excellent orchestral
resources.
A.B.C. Orchestra.
Prof. Bernard Heinze, of Melbourne,
was conductor of the A.B.C.’s orchestra
at Sydney Town Hall one night last week,
and led the band through a very judicious
performance of Rachmaninoff’s Second
Symphony. The beauty of the orchestra-
tion and the suave grace of the melodic
theme were well brought out.
For the “Introduction and Allegro for
Strings” of Elgar, the orchestra was aug-
mented by the Sydney String Quartet, and
this vigorous and original work was given
in spirited style. The “Don Giovanni”
overture, which opened the programme,
was prettily interpreted.
At the end of the evening came a per-
formance of Handel’s Organ Concerto in
F (No. 4 of its group), in which the solo-
ist was Marcel Dupre. The work is typi-
cally Handelian, with the usual mingling
of gaiety and grandeur, and the organ
blended very well with the band. Mr.
Dupre’s own composition for orchestra
and organ, “Cortege and Litany,” con-
cluded the programme.
Lord Lurgan Sings.
Lurgan, the Irishman making his first
Australian appearance at Adelaide Town
Hall, has the unusual distinction for a
platform singer of being a British peer,
with Eton and Oxford behind him.
He has a special fondness for songs
from Shakspeare and music by the
modern British composers, such as Delius
and Quilter, and the Australian, Arthur
Benjamin. But he sings also in Spanish
and French. His voice is a light but cul-
tured baritone, and Adelaide makes him
very welcome.
Society of Artists 9 Show.
The Society of Artists’ annual exhibi-
tion at the Education Department’s Gal-
lery (Sydney) comprises close on 300
items, representing practically every
school of thought in Australian painting,
a sprinkling of pictures by celebrated
English painters, and an unusually strong
sculpture section.
In oils Norman Lindsay’s big
canvas, “Amazons,” represents the
pinnacle of technique. Two one-
figure studies, “Suspense” and “Threat,”
are more universal in appeal. “Sus-
pense” goes to the N. S. Wales
Gallery. Norman Carter, J. Muir Auld,
Lloyd Rees, Will Ashton, John Rowell;
Douglas Dundas, Elioth Griiner and
Arthur J. Murch show work which bears
their characteristic imprint, but carries
with it no surprises. “Modernists”
Arnold Shore, Roland Wakelin and
George Bell express their ideas in the
customary rugged manner, though there
is a queer charm about Bell’s “Seaside,”
and John D. Moore exhibits Nature in
various explosive moods.
Striking and distinctive are the por-
traits and figure studies of William
Dobell. J. Noel Kilgour’s “The Old
Waiter” and “Bayswater Balcony” are
both very well done. Dattilo Rubbo
proves his versatility with a vigorous
piece, “Long Reef, Collaroy.” Joshua
Smith is to the fore with yet another ver-
sion of his mother and some good still-
lifes and figure-compositions. Nora Hey-
sen’s offerings are uneven. John Elder-
shaw’s oils are full-blooded in color but
still a bit flat. Fred Leist’s portrait of a
Chinese lady is graceful, and E. A.
Harvey has an unusual color scheme in
a figure-study, “Rock Pool.”
In water-colors Maud Sherwood gives
the usual pageant of gorgeous coloring
in various styles of work. Kenneth Mac-
queen gets some wonderful water into
“Off Hayman Island, Afternoon,” John
Eldershaw has some strong landscapes,
and S. U. Smith, Gladys Owen, Lionel
Lindsay, Albert Collins, Harold Herbert
and John C. Goodchild show drawings
which neither add to nor detract from
their laurels.
Among borrowed plumes an Augustus
John head and a striking portrait of
Irene Vanbrugh, by Gerald Brockhurst.
deserve mention. Arthur Fleischmann’s
sculptures in terra-cotta and carvings in
wood are uniformly admirable.
In the yery strong section devoted to
drawings in pencil, crayon and tint, the
work of Douglas Pratt, F. H. Coventry,
Daryl Lindsay (some excellent ballet
sketches), Unk White and Lloyd Rees
commands attention. Romney, Michel-
angelo, Muirhead Bone and J. M. W.
Turner lend respectability to this section,
and there’s a pencil sketch by Rodin.
ARTBURSTS.
Melbourne
W. A. Dargie, P. G. Moore and Kath-
leen Howitt, the three exhibitors jointly
occupying Melb. Athenaeum at the
moment, appear to be oscillating between
impressionism and something else.
Moore, in his landscapes, gives more
of the natural quality of things, and his
“Theatre” and “Conversation Piece” are
sketches in which he does not attempt too
much.
Dargie also invades the theatre with
his brush and endeavors to catch the
ballet on the wing, but his large picture
of Baronova and Petroff in “Les Syl-
phides” is more a compilation than a
note, and to make more than a note of
Baronova and Petroff on the move would
require an eye like a camera. In
Dargie’s portrait of a girl against a diffi-
cult background there is a hardness which
is absent from most of his confrere’s
work.
Miss Howitt appears to present
viewer to be patterning her style on the
Right-wing modernists.
Hanging Committees.
“N.L.”: To certain rejected exhibi-
tors to the Soc. of Artists—or any other
Art Soc.: A picture rejected is not neces-
sarily a rejection by all members of a
judging committee. When an artist re-
ceives a picture back from an exhibition
he is apt to assume that its rejection is a
unanimous statement of opinion by the
whole judging committee. This is not
the case. Opinion is often divided on the
subject of its merits. One vote may de-
cide its rejection. In every exhibition of
pictures by a society of artists a percen-
tage of pictures go out against a strong
opposition from one section of the com-
mittee, and an equal number of pictures
are accepted against an equally vigorous
opposition. A committee is made up of
seven judges. There may be three for a
picture and three against it and one who
doesn’t care either way. The procedure
is really not an unjust one or an insin-
cere one. There can be two sides to the
merits or demerits of any work of art.
With so many debatable outlooks on
plastic art to-day, and so many shifting
standards of value, it is inevitable that
there will be an equally legitimate con-
flict of opinion on both sides. I think
that much consolation should be offered
to those whose works aroused a good
deal of active debate on this vexed
question.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
•N
0
mm*#*
a s
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
*
:
:
KITCHING’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER GOODS.
LADIES’ KIT BAGS IN ALL COLOURS
Morocco and Calf Leathers.
Fitted with Secure Lock.
lOin. and 12in. Price 37/6
C. E. KITCHING PTY., LTD.,
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Station).
Tel.: 8^7133.
Relieve Eczema
and Itching Skin
|F you suffer from Eczema or other
1 itching skin complaints, don't delay
proper treatment another day. When
care is not taken, there is a tendency
for the continued irritations and un-
sightly eruptions of the skin to spread
and become chronic. Doan’s Oint-
ment will give you quick relief, for it
penetrates to the true skin where the
inflammation lies. It is antiseptic!
healing and quickly allays the irrita-
tion. Be sure you get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
IMIHINIO SHVO
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Things do happen in Sydney. Last
week we had Marjorie Lawrence flinging
down a gauntlet, a political upheaval and
a policeman inspecting the nudes in the
Society of Artists’ show. Who said a
policeman’s life is not a happy one?
Quite a crowd as well as the sergeant went
to look not only at the undressed ladies
in the exhibition, but at the dressed ones,
too. There seem to be more portraits of
women this year than ever before. Strik-
ing among them is Violet Vanbrugh,
painted by Gerald Brockhurst. Daughter
Mrs. Jimmy Dickson lent this. Fred
Leist’s picture of Mrs. Charles Ma
makes appeal with its delicate coloring.
Among the groups pausing before the
different pictures surely moved the gentle
ghosts of John Lane Mullins and Judge
Backhouse, those art-lovers who never
missed an exhibition. '
Was the political tension the reason for
the absence of many usual private
viewers? Anyway, Anna May Wong
was an early caller, and in the afternoon
the wife of China’s Consul-General was
one of the smart. With Mrs. Pao came
Mrs. Malcolm Mackellar, nut-brown her
attire. A dominant note was struck by
the small but cerise turban worn by
Bubbles Bell. Elizabeth Crace was there ;
so were Mrs. Lang, Susan Spencer and
Mrs. Gwynneth Paul. A highlight was
Mrs. Larnach’s patent-leather bag—
nearly big enough for a week-end. New
York was its home. Coralie Jagelman
and Brian Cannell kept her com-
pany. Elioth Griiner held a sort of levee
with country visitors, Deuchar Gordon
among them. Howard Hinton, tall Jack
Salvana, Mary Gilmore, Grace Scobie (a
pink camellia in her coat), Helen Souter,
Mrs. George Duncan and Mrs. Ellis
Fielding Jones (sapphire blues and silver-
fox clothed her) were other catalogue-
graspers.
Lord Wakehurst opened the Society
of Artists’ show from a dais at the
bottom of the long gallery instead of one
at the top. The old custom had seemed
as unalterable as the laws of the Medes
and the Persians (and who remembers
what they were, anyway?), but the change
shows that we move with the times. In-
stead of having to climb on to the little
platform to see the pictures on the wall
at the back, the pictures at the top of
the room are now on ground level. Seen
standing before the work of William
Dobell were the Charles Lloyd Jones
couple. Mrs. Charles wore cyclamen
lipstick to match her small straight-
brimmed hat. That was new in New
York when the family passed through.
Further on Hera Roberts had a cycla-
men hat to match her cyclamen blouse.
Mrs. Charles Regan, a coy blue feather
in her hat, was with daughter Mrs. Mc-
Evilly Jordan, admiring John Moore’s
“Mt. Wilson.” This Letter went back
three times to Syd Ure Smith’s “Eliza-
beth Bay from Potts Point.” Nevill Smith
was another who lingered before it. The
Galleries were seething. Noreen Dangar
and the Gordon lady were there. Nor-
man Lindsay, looking about as material
as a “cloud that floats on high o’er vale
and hill,” drifted about. Smartest hat on
a woman artist was worn by Dora
Jarret. The Dahl Collings pair were
there ; so was “Joe” Collins. Norman
Carter was both seen and heard. He had
to say “Thank you” to the Governor.
On Thursday night an absolutely elec-
tric Marjorie Lawrence drew all listeners
to her as irresistibly as spark springs from
flint and steel. After the cancelling of
the soprano’s Monday-night concert Syd-
ney shook off its apathy and simply
rushed the booking office. The result was
a Town Hall seething with excitement, a
radiant prima donna, and a feeling of
warmth reaching from the singer to the
audience; from the audience to the
singer. From the first stirring number,
Brunnhilde’s “Battle Cry,” Marjorie had
the house in the hollow of her hand. Her
singing was dazzling and radiant. She
stood there, five foot two or maybe three,
in a flowing white marquisette frock with
a narrow front panel of black, vibrant
from shoe tip to the topmost curl of her
fair head, and you realised why she goes
back again and again a headliner to the
Metropolitan Opera.
The Governor and Mrs. Stevens were
absent for the same reason —Premier
trouble. Around in the artist’s room after
the concert, Marjorie signed programmes
by the million, and blushing young
singers congratulated her, and Roland
Foster, 25 years a teacher, presented a
pupil or two. Manager Archie Longden,
a spark or two of battle still in his eye,
looked for one moment as though he
were coming up as a flower. He was in
the middle of baskets and sheaves of
roses, carnations, daffodils and such
sweetness. Alfredo Luizzi not only signed
programmes, but provided his own foun-
tain pen. The Ernest Lashmars were
there with Mrs. Crooks and many com-
pliments. Mrs. Ben Edye and daughter
Stephanie were visitors ; so were Jessica
Chard, Mrs. Vaughan with Joan Preston
Stanley. Mrs. Harold Bott, Mrs. Norman
McLeod, Mrs. Rex Bennett, Carrie
Lanceley, Thelma Houston, all singers,
were among the ardent applauders.
Florence Taylor, who had helped the
concert’s success, wore a cape of pink
ostrich plumes with her black frock.
If you had been out at the Ice Palais
last week watching the dancing trials and
other feats of skill you would have
noticed Barbara Long Innes following the
events closely. Barbara, the youngest
daughter of Justice Long Innes, is one
of Sydney’s keenest skaters. She admits
to a liking for frivolities, but still finds
time to work on the junior committee
of the Kindergarten Union. Their chief
job is to raise the funds to keep the holi-
day home at Thirroul going. Photograph
from Peter Pan.
From the cloud of scarlet balloons
ornamented with the white cross that
soared from the handrail at the foot of
the stairs. there was a blitheness about
Switzerland’s party. This was the cele-
bration of the 648th anniversary of the
pact by the men of the Three Forest Can-
tons to stand shoulder to shoulder against
aggression. Pacts in those days were
made for keeps. Consul for Switzerland
Hans Hedinger said in his address that
the spirit that prompted the pact then
still burned bright. So airy with balloons
was the room at Cahill’s that it might
have been wafted, reception and all, at
any moment to the top of Mount Blanc.
This Letter tried to recall all the things
she had ever known about the land of
lovely lake and mountain while its
national airs were being played on a
wooden Swiss instrument against a
background of ’cello, violin and
piano. From William Tell and the
dynasty of the St. Bernard, every-
thing was good, not forgetting the
view across the Lake of Geneva
from Ouchy-Lausanne when the chest-
nuts are in flower. Mrs. Hedinger, who
helped her husband to receive compat-
riots and friends of Switzerland, looked
both smart and pretty in her black en-
semble. Chancellor of the Swiss Consu-
late-General G. Falquier, the Alfred
Wunderlichs, the L. Staehelin couple, the
president of the Swiss Club and his wife
were others.
Bob Lyon, the new band leader at the
Trocadero, told this writer of some
alterations that are about to happen at
the George-street home of dance. The
big change will be the stage. For looks
Bob seems to have Robert Taylor beaten.
His long, dark eyelashes fan the glade,
and in the hot days should be a ;great help
in cooling the temperature. He’s a Cana-
dian, and though his band plays swing it’s
not of the tornado type. Bob’s parents
came from Glamis in Scotland, and he
and his band played for the King and
Queen when the royalties were touring
Canada. The management of the Troc.
gave a party in honor of Bob and Rupert
Dumbrell, who arranges all his music.
Bob invented a cocktail for the occasion,
“Serenade in Blue.” When you drank
one you had the effect of being in a nice
rosy cloud. But even two did not make
you forget to catch the 6.30 ferry.
Cameras worked overtime, and radia-
tors in the foyer were in demand for
drying-off damp shoes before the A.B.C.
concert last Wednesday. Heavens, how
it rained just as the cars were unloading
their cargoes! Mrs. Georg Szell was sen-
sible, and slung a rubber cape over her
black frock. Mrs. Bernard Heinze, whose
husband conducted the orchestra, wore
her black moires full and flowing, and
had camellias in her hair. Lord Wake-
hurst was there completely surrounded
by the alphabet. Mrs. Dupre, whose hus-
band was the night’s soloist, was also
in the vice-regal aura. France s
Consul-General was there. Mrs. Hugh
Poate came with daughter Marcelle.
Excitement in that family at the moment
is the dance at Elizabeth Bay House.
Another nice girl was Rada Penfold
Hyland. Mrs. Peter Moore had not had
as much as one spot of rain to dull the
lustre of her gold satin dress.
Cranbrook’s twenty-first birthday fin-
ished up with a dance run by the junior
group, an offshoot of the Parents and
Friends’ Association. Fairlie Anderson
was the president of that success. Ihe
Rose Bay girl is popular in tennis and
University circles. She is now in her
second-year Arts. Photograph from
Montgomery Dunn.
A note from David Smythe from the
Empire flying-boat Coriolanus tells that
that craft is very comfortable, and that
the passengers are able to move about
with ease. Letters indited at 12,000 ft.
have to be typed ; the ink in fountain-
pens runs out and blots the_ paper.
David reported Townsville delightfully
warm and a blaze of color with
bougainvillaea.
“The Women” holds the stage of the
Minerva. Saturday was the first night
of the revival, and judging by the audi-
ence quite a number of Sydney people
had not seen the play before, m were
paying it a second visit. “Bunny
(Frances) Ellis was the governess, and
Aileen Britton the mischief-making
Sylvia. Jean Fergusson was the secre-
tary. All did a good job. Mrs. Ellis
was in the audience ; so was Mrs. Regan,
Aileen’s aunt. Joy Howarth was an on-
looker ; also Jocelyn Poynter and
Marjorie Crossland.
Lance Fallaw’s new book of poems,
Hostage and Survival „ was the reason
for 'a group of friends downing cock-
tails at the Carlton. The book, its
author, his wife, were all toasted. Ivy
Moore made a speech, Elliott Napier,
still another poet, seconded it, and then
Mr. Fallaw had his bright say. Quite
a lot of fun ; and, whet’s more, quite a
lot of men were netted, P. E. Tighe, o
Ballina, among them. Tall Harol
Court, Aubrey Halloran, and Malcolm
Cook were others. Charlton Fallaw, son
of the house, who has just returned from
Cambridge with his M.A. and first-class
honors in law, has settled into a
job with Stephen, Jaques and Stephen.
Charlton was an honorary exhibitioner
of Clare College, Cambridge, and, what s
more, he was captain of boats there as
he had been at Geelong College.
Five hundred-odd Lambeth Walkers
and others flocked to the fifth Authors
Ball, staged by the Fellowship of Aus-
tralian Writers at the Wentworth last
Friday evening—within a stone s throw
of where poets Rod Quinn and E. J.
Brady attended school together at St.
Patrick’s Church School, Harrington-
street. Either the Australian author is
becoming a rarer bird or else he is spend-
ing these late-winter evenings polishing
up the Great Australian Novel. Auto-
graph-hunters —there were a flock of
them, some armed with de luxe albums
and others with sixpenny note-
books —ran a few to earth, but reported
a lean evening. Dulcie Deamer was one
of the few writers to appear in fancy
costume —she was Nefert, an early Egyp-
tian goddess.
Secretary Catherine Lindsay, dressed
in black lace, spent an anxious evening.
Mrs. R. J. Cassidy’s tablb was judged the
best-decorated. Place-cards were illus-
trated with quotations from the works
of Henry Lawson. Artist Joe Wolinski
contributed a touching - study of Arvie
Aspinall, and Joe Morrison’s impression
of Henrv’s “Past Carin’ ” was a deserv-
ing contribution. Bulletin artist Unk
White, who appeared at the ball in a
Spanish costume, and Cyril Dubois also
contributed sketches to Mrs. Cas-
sidy’s table. On the official table,
the Fellowship symbol of crossed
pens occupied a conspicuous place.
Organising secretary Josephine Marks
was responsible for the pageant, which
had an international flavor. Miss Marks’s
Napoleonic set (she was the Empress
Josephine) won a prize, and judges Will
Ashton and Aubrey Halloran also
awarded prizes to a Viennese set, a group
of characters from Gone With the Wind
and a set representing What Butterfly Is
That ?
A giant R on one side of the cur-
tain and an equally large F in silver on
the other caught the gaze at the Con.
on the night of Roland Foster’s silver
jubilee as a teacher. On the curtain
at the back of the stage were the
numerals 25 in silver. These were sur-
mounted by a horseshoe of silvered
grape leaves, and pendent from each end
of the shoe were bunches of silver
grapes. In all, more than 12 dozen
palm leaves and bunches of a graceful
frond-like grass had become platinum
blondes for the occasion. The result
was extremely decorative. The yellow
of poppies ran a golden note through
the theme.
Thelma Houston confessed to having
schemed the whole. Then, her hand being
in and a bit of paint left over, she
had silvered a handbag. This went with
her turquoise velvet frock and the
tulips in her coat. Roland lifted his
voice with others in the “Rigoletto’’
quartet, and Marjorie Lawrence made an
appearance, lovely in a grey coat col-
lared deep and soft in grey Arctic fox.
She arrived while little Marie Ryan was
singing the “Shadow Song” from
“Dinorah,” and stood quiet as a mouse,
just within the doorway, till the last note
had died away. It was a grand night.
Gladys Verona, one of Roland’s good
pupils, in her rose-red crinoline adding
to the color.


Missing Friends.
ARTHUR, Reginald, nephew of George
Shannon Arthur, or anyone knowing where-
abouts, please communicate with PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39
Hunter Street, Sydney.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1107 of 1939.
BETWEEN GORDON PATRICK WILLIAM
LUTHJE Petitioner.
And DORIS EDNA LUTHJE Respondent.
FREDERICK STEPHEN BARR Co-re-
spondent.
TO FREDERICK STEPHEN BARR of West
Cowra.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GORDON
PATRICK WILLIAM LUTHJE has com-
menced a suit against his wife DORIS EDNA
LUTHJE in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of adul-
tery wherein the said Gordon Patrick William
Luthje alleges that you have been guilty of
adultery with the abovenamed Doris Edna
Luthje AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-sixth day of October One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in
the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit will be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of July,
1939.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
L. R. WHITELEY, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner, Kendall Street, .Cowra; by his Town
Agent, MAURICE J. McGRATH, 56 Hunter
Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1319 of 1939.
BETWEEN DOROTHY ANN GORTON Peti-
tioner
And ALEXANDER GEORGE GORTON
Respondent.
TO ALEXANDER GEORGE GORTON late
of Woolgoolga.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DOROTHY
ANN GORTON has commenced a suit against
you in this Court and is applying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage on the ground of non-com-
pliance with a Decree of Restitution of Con-
jugal Rights AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Thirty-first day of October One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in
the event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Second day of August One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
N. J. BELL, PHILLIPS & CO., Solicitors,
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 580 of 1939.
BETWEEN WILLIAM GEORGE HENRY
DINE Petitioner
And PHYLLIS WINIFRED DINE Re-
spondent.
TO PHYLLIS WINIFRED DINE late of
“Thanet” Warrangi Street Turramurra.
TAKE NOTICE that the said WILLIAM
GEORGE HENRY DINE has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds of desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE ' that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Twenty-seventh day of October One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine AND
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit will be
heard and determined your absence notwith-
standing. A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
DATED this Fourth day of August, 1939.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
JOHN J. LYONS, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Central Chambers, Peel Street, Tam worth.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 557 of 1939.
BETWEEN HARRIETT TAYLOR Petitioner
And FREDERICK WILLIAM TAYLOR
Respondent.
TO FREDERICK WILLIAM TAYLOR for-
merly of Tuncurry.
TAKE NOTICE that the said HARRIETT
TAYLOR has commenced a suit against you
in this Honorable Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are re-
quired to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the First day of November
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be
had on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this Fourth day of August, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
GEORGE R. VINCENT, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
An unusual event in the August
calendar was the Lord Mayor’s Ball,
held last week (three months earlier
than usual). City Council elections on
August 24 were a possible reason-
tor the change, for, although Lord
Mayor Coles is popular, elections seem
to be like games of golf, wherein any-
thing might happen. The Mayor con-
siders he was lucky to get his Town
Hall for his ball, for so great has been
our spate of music that most of its dates
were booked up months ago. On this
occasion the decorators were at work
for three days beforehand, and on the
day following the ball the big doors
were opened at sixpence per head in aid
of charity.
The crowd was immense. The guest
list was largely civic, and it also bristled
with commissions, committees, boards
and welfare-workers. Stage and organ
loft were transformed into a garden and
a forest glade, which by exercise of a
gardener’s license (which, like a poet’s,
permits liberties with fundamental rules)
presented various zones and seasons
with flaming poinsettias and languorous,
long stemmed orchids, pink carnations
of magnificent size, roses, begonias,
primulas and cinerarias, and beds of
yellow pansies whose quaint little faces
seemed to express astonishment at such t
botanical abundance. Above the ball-
room was a canopy of green lights, and
around the balcony a facade of flowers
and leaves. There were three main
supper-rooms, one under the roof that
shelters the Health Dept, and similar
offices, a second in the Lower Town
Hall, and a third in the basement
garage, disguised with lattice screens
and wall radiators, and breathing the
air, not of petrol, but of golden daffodils.
This year the queueing-up and filing
past the dais was omitted at Sir Win-
ston Dugan’s request, on account of a
recent injury to his arm. Results were
that proceedings were less formal.
There was more dancing, and glasses
were being filled in various bars while
the night was still very young. Lady
Dugan’s white fox cape excited admira-
tion. Mrs. M. Langslow was another
possessor of white foxes of superb
quality, and Dr. Lorna Bray wore the
same aristocratic animals for the collar
of her coat of white boucle. Gold
mesh gloves were the complement of
Mrs. H. R. Troedel’s gold lame gown.
Black had a word to say for itself with
Valerie Purves’s velvet frock and Mrs.
Harry Furnell’s stiffened mousseline
covered with a midnight sky of golden
comets and shooting stars. Mrs.
Norman Jeffries, also in black, intro-
duced something unusual in the line of
headwear, a hat of the genus Little
80-Peep.
Last week the Australian Institute of
Agricultural Science had the wool in-
dustry yarded up at a meeting held in
the University Union Theatre to discuss
“Can Wool Hold Its Place in the Textile
World?” The meeting coincided with
the Sheep Show, but as well as sheep-
farmers there were also present a number
of economists and several scientists of
special note. The evening’s speakers
were the chairman of the Australian
Wool Board, Dalziel Kelly, who without
consulting a note spoke with his usual
fluency mainly of costs and the economic
position, and M. R. Freney, who viewed
wool fibre and its artificial competitors
from a scientific angle.
Conclusions of both speakers were that
wool will hold its own, but only if special
efforts, scientific and otherwise, are made
to keep it in a foremost place. The
chairman of the Wool Board took the
opportunity of wearing his red carnation
made of wool, and a good imitation of
the real thing, and he murmured that if
he hadn’t had a date with a boiled shirt
he’d have shown those assembled his
synthetic suit (tailored in England of
artificial materials manufactured in
Germany). Knight David Rivett and
Professor Copland were among those
who took part in the succeeding dis-
cussion.
Among the week’s brides were Mary
Boyd, Prudence Fairbairn and Pauline
Due. Mary was all for being informal
in nut-brown coat and hat with duck-
egg green frock of featherweight woollen
Angora for her midday exchange of
vows with Pat Loader in Melbourne
Grammar School chapel.
Prudence Fairbairn was a picture of
dewy youth and charm as in ivory satin
and great-grandmother’s Brussels lace
and carrying a trail of white orchids
she was escorted up the aisle of St.
John’s by father Clive Fairbairn, of
Woomargama, Albury, to marry John
Guest. Four ’maids, Diana ana Jua.tn
Daniels, Barbara Stephens and Fay
Stoddart, carried out their duties in
frocks of ecru lace with wisps of brown
tulle veils pinned behind the curls aloft
of their heads. The subsequent recep-
tion was given by the bride’s mother,
Mrs. M. R. Fairbairn, at her home in
Kooyong-road. The newly-married pair
will soon be enjoying the warm sunshine
of Queensland and arriving, rods in hand,
upon the Barrier Reef islets, particu-
larly the palmy shores of Dunk Island,
in search of the big fish that are said to
lurk up in those regions just asking to
be caught.
When Pauline Due and John Clive
Robertson were married in the Little-
john Chapel of Scotch College an* old
family friendship was cemented with
much rejoicing, for the Lief Dues
(Pauline is their youngest daughter) and
the James Robertsons, of Barwon Heads
(the ’groom is their only son), have been
friends for a number of years. Pauline,
an all-wbite bride, borrowed for the oc-
casion the tulle veil worn by her sister,
Mrs. Marshal Renou, at her wedding.
One of this week’s brides is Jessica
Rodda (Ronald Esler photograph),
who to-morrow evening in Melbourne
Grammar School chapel will marry
James Wilson, younger son of the late
James Wilson and of Mrs. Wilson, of
Murdeduke, Winchelsea. The bride is
an old girl of St. Catherine’s. Her sister
Elisabeth is to be bridesmaid, and the
’groom’s brother Jack is responsible for
producing the ring at the right moment.
Felicitations will be offered at the home
of the bride’s mother, Mrs. Stanley
Rodda, Kooyong-road, Armadale. After
a honeymoon in M.L., whither they sail
in the Monterey, the newly-wedded pair
will live on the ’groom’s property at
Winchelsea.
Victorian skiers rave over Buller,
Hotham, Feathertop, etc., those from
N. S. Wales are faithful to Kosciusko,
but those Tasmanians who are proficient
upon snowslopes wish for nothing more
magnificent than their beloved Ben
Lomond. It is expected that a Tas-
manian team will compete in the Aus-
tralian championships held this month
at Mt. Buller, when Alan Dumaresq,
Bill Mitchell, Ernest Mills, Heine Von
See and Peter Canning hope to pull off
something for the honor of Tasmania
and “Old Ben.” The first three skiers
mentioned are the triumvirate known as
the “Demithemills,” who spent every
week-end last summer 5000 ft. up Ben
Lomond, building with local stone the
Demithemills’ hut, their own exclusive
property, above the snowline. There is
a well near by, and a useful seam of coal
(too inaccessible to be commercialised)
will provide winter fuel, the mountain
having no vegetation so near its summit.
Entries for the R.A.S. Show are
coming along so satisfactorily that those
in charge are expecting a particularly
successful show. An innovation will be
night polo, which has been played with
success for some time in America. An
addition to the grounds will be another
grandstand on the western side near the
result board. In its basement there are
quarters for horses waiting their turn in
the ring—who probably won’t know
themselves in the luxury of a roof over
their heads.
The Latham lady has a very soft spot
in her heart for Ray Parkinson’s water-
colors. Declaring his exhibition open at
the Sedon Galleries she mentioned the
fact that her husband had performed
the same office for the same artist about
10 years ago, since which time two
Parkinson have adorned the
walls of Flete and given a lot of pleasure
to its occupants. Ray Parkinson with
his wife (who is well known to Bris-
bane’s amateur dramatic audiences) and
his parents, made a long motor journey
last summer from Queensland to Vic-
toria which included deviations on the
whim of the moment to inaccessible
beaches and fishing inlets tucked away
among rocky cliffs. They grilled
chops by the wayside, and Ray painted
where and when he felt the urge upon
him. Representing the Brisbane family,
the B. J. Parkinsons, of Melbourne,
uncle and aunt of the artist, were present
on the opening day of the exhibition.
Mrs. W. A. Morrison has returned to
Melbourne after three years spent abroad
with her clever and successful sisters
Ann Neville and Margot Goyder, whose
collaborated pen-name is Margot Neville.
This pair have never looked back since
their first play, “Once a Husband,” had
a prosperous run at the Haymarket.
“Heroes Don’t Care” was a record-
breaker, and as the couple have secured
the services of the priceless pair Basil
Radford and Naunton Wayne (Test
cricket fans of the film “The Lady Van-
ishes”) . for their new play, “Giving the
Bride Away,” this too looks like being a
winner. Gerald Kirby has collaborated
with the sisters for “Giving the Bride
Away,” which is an adaptation of a
Margot Neville book.
Mrs. Morrison and her eldest son
Alistair, who returned from England
with his mother, are planning to live in
Sydney. Mrs. Morrison hopes to do
some broadcasting—she has an excellent
voice for a microphone, and had a good
deal of stage experience in the old days
of Melbourne “Rep.” Alistair, a success-
ful commercial artist, returned to Aus-
tralia on account of his non-compati-
bility with London winters. He shared
a studio off the Strand with two Sydney
commercial artists, Dahl and Geoffrey
Codings. A recent honor paid him was
from the Victoria and Albert Museum in
the form of a request for examples of
his work for the museum’s permanent
collection of design.
On August 30, Jean Ogilvie (Spencer
Shier portrait), only daughter of the H.
P. Ogilvie couple, will marry Major
George Redvers Dunbar, Royal Artillery,
who arrived in Melbourne recently in the
Strathallan. The couple first met on
board ship about 18 months ago while
Major Dunbar was doing the round trip
on leave from India and Jean was cruis-
ing to Noumea and back again. Jean,
who has decided to “be a bride” and wear
traditional gown and veil, will have as
her ’maids Pat Eckersley (a pal of school-
days at Fintona) and Gwen Williams.
The bride and ’groom leave on October
3 for India, where their home will be at
Nowshera, N.W.F.P., not very far from
the wilds of the Khyber Pass. In a year’s
time they expect to go to England.
Major Dunbar is the second son of the
late James Dunbar and of Mrs. Dun-
bar, of West Worthing, Sussex.
The first thing the four women
members of the M.L. badminton team
did when they arrived in Melbourne
was to sniff their way to a flower
barrow and buy bunches of the violets
they had heard so much about. Included
in the team of eight players plus the
manager, padre C. W. Austin, are Mr.
and Mrs. P. Hawksworth, who last year
won the doubles championship of the
Dominion, singles champion Nancy
Fleming and Mavis Kerr, an all-
rounder who is doing Home Science
(the only such course at any university
in the Southern Hemisphere) at Otago
University. Miss Kerr plays hockey,
is full-blue for tennis and is inter-uni-
versity tennis champion of the Dominion.
The Comedy Harmonists scored a big
success at their first concert in the Town
Hall. It was a “popular” house, seats
were reasonably priced, and the audience
was appreciative enough to stamp upon
the floor. The programme contained, if
anything, too much comedy, for buffoon-
ing, appreciated in small doses, is apt to
cause impatience, when there are so many
real works of art upon the Harmonists’
repertoire. The singers and their pianist
are as artistip as ever, and they look the
same as they did on their visit here two
years ago. The tall, thin basso still has
the same sinister-humorous arch to his
eyebrows and the same way of producing
an expressive personality with his cheek-
bones.


THE NEW ZEALAND
INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED
(Incorporated in New Zealand),
Established 1859.
Capital £1,500,000.
Funds invested in Australia,
£1,620,976.
All Classes of FIRE, MARINE
and
ACCIDENT INSURANCES
effected at Lowest Current
Rates.
Head Office for New South Wales:
79-81 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
J. HARRISON, Manager.
Tel: 8W1931.
YOU’RE INDEPENDENT
if your cooler is an
AGA
' m
%
to ... y Ss 111 -.
V • --c -«// - - yw'
' * *
I
;J~Y,
v/tt T. n
(mm* ~
fcvS
5/#
© i
5 JwgMwk
ot&l
Or *
'V *'«
# •«
V «r
W*
w
i
THE AGA heat storage cooker
ensures a means of continuous
cooking, completely independent of
outside power supplies. It is self
contained. Burning night and day,
the model illustrated cannot burn
more than 2 tons of coke in a
whole yearl
The AGA cooker makes for
independence in other ways, too.
It is always instantly ready for any
cooking need—no waiting for a
hot oven, no watching, no basting
or turning of joints. You can, in
fact, leave a whole dinner to cook
by itself, without fear of spoiling
even if you do not arrive home
as early as intended. The AGA
has dozens of amazing features: —
you can’t imagine how truly won-
derful it is. To country folk it is
a boon; to city folk a blessing.
Not only will it save you money,
but also time, temper and diges-
tion. For the AGA is the most
efficient and carefree cooker ever
invented. There are over 40,000
AGA Cookers in daily use through-
out the world.
Permit us to send you full particu-
lars —ask for booklet R 8; no
obligation on your part.
AGA
(R£GD. TRADE MARK)
7hongml^eatStom t
COOKER
MADE ! N BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO., LTD. Estab (Inc. in N.Z.) 1852, 45 King St., Sydney.
And 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
Milk and Honey in Queensland
“X.T.”: Queensland has no cause to
complain about the season. There were
good summer rains over most of the
State, and there have been good winter
rains, except around Longreach and in
a few areas along the Townsville-Clon-
curry railway. Pasture growth over
much of Queensland has been con-
tinuous.
The coastal cattle districts have bene-
fited, and there are few areas in which
cattle are not in first-class condition.
Conditions in the butter districts are
better than they have been for years.
Production for June was up 38 p.c. com-
pared with the same month last year.
Rains interfered with cane-planting in
Mackay and other northern districts, and
first reports from the sugar-mills to the
Bureau of Industry show that sugar con-
tent will not be high in the season’s cane,
but returns from the industry should go
at least £11,000,000.
The cotton yield will be 12,000 bales
of lint; the average is 10,500 bales. The
Stanthorpe fruit and vegetable industry
sold 20,000 tons during the year. And the
State does not suffer from the burden of
a heavy wheat output on a low world
price as do other States. The sowing con-
ditions were as right as they could be
after June rain, and the same applies
to all other field crops.
Also, it is recorded that the “full-time
equivalent of men on relief-work” is
only 490, and, including these, unemploy-
ment for May was reckoned at only
4.5 p.c. of salary- and wage-earners, with
189,920 employed, against 10.1 p.c. in
1929, when only 148,430 were employed.
With a good wool season and little
political disturbance looming, the State
should have another prosperous year.
Then some of the 154,000 contributors
to unemployment relief —24,000 more
than in 1936—-should have their burdens
lightened.
“Mataranka”: Darwin’s ancient wharf,
subject of curses, commissions and in-
quiries since the year One, is at last
doomed. The contraption was so shaped
that goods had to be loaded and un-
loaded at its angle before they could
be shipped or landed. A Public Works
Committee, of which one of the guiding
geniuses was the present Minister for the
Interior, Senator Foil, once wrote a
report which ran into 130,000 pages
about Darwin wharf. It is to be replaced
by a concrete pier at Fort Hill.
* * * *
“J.E.8.” reports an invasion:
Not since Communists marched in procession
to the Brisbane Domain in 1919 and battered
policemen with sticks outside Parliament House
has that gloomy pile seen such a sensation as
the invasion of the Government party-room by
a band of 37 men on Friday last. The House
is the largest in Australia. Out of session it
holds only a few messengers widely scattered,
apart from the Librarian and a clerk or two.
The invaders arrived in cars. They wore
numbered badges with blue, red and green
ribbons attached. Their hands were cased in
rubber gloves, and they had batons. They had
also in their cars rolls of barbed-wire,
hammers, staples and files.
They entered the House in sections by
various doors —there are eight separate en-
trances, all easily accessible —and compelled a
messenger to escort them upstairs to where
the Labor party was engaged at its pre-sessional
meeting in choosing a new Minister to replace
Mr. Dash as Minister for Transport.
A leader ordered his followers to take up
positions round the room, and when this was
done mentioned a petition to discuss griev-
ances. , „ ,
Premier Forgan Smith behaved well and
coolly. He walked up to the leader and said
he refused to permit such an outrage; there
was a constitutional way by which grievances
could be redressed.
Meanwhile, Mr. Hanlon, the Home Secretary,
slipped out of the room and telephoned police
headquarters. Police arrived and arrested all
the visitors on warrant. They had apparently
come from farming districts, some as much as
200 miles away, and purported to represent a
body called the League of Social Justice.
Earlier in the day, they had distributed a
pamphlet demanding a 40-hour week, control
by farmers of all primary industries and
stabilised prices for farm produce, full time
work for the unemployed, removal of road and
bridge tolls, reduction in taxation and rates
and public finance without debt.
Such an incident is enough to show the
dangers inherent in crank movements with
which country as well as city is plagued.
* * * *
“J. Want”; Public bodies can be busi-
nesslike and solvent sometimes. Wyn-
num, a seaside Brisbane suburb, has an
ambulance centre. At the annual meet-
ing chairman W. R. Howard mentioned
that it had assets of £4469 and a credit
balance of £BO6. Yet cars had travelled
41,000 miles and 3275 cases had been
treated —at an average cost of Bs. 2d. per
case. The Wynnum women raised nearly
£lOOO during the year to help the work.
* * * *
“Ek Durn”: The death of R. J. Archi-
bald will leave a gap in Brisbane public
life which it will not be easy to fill. A
son of an old-time Queensland P.M. and
mining warden, John Archibald, M.L.C.,
he went to school in North Queensland
and won a scholarship to Brisbane
Grammar School. When his father
formed a partnership with G. P. Barnes
—later M.L.A. for Warwick—to enter the
milling business, R.J. joined as a clerk,
and at 28 was appointed general manager
of the Dominion Milling Co. In 1924
three concerns were blended into the
White Rose Milling Co., with Archibald
as managing director; he was also later
chairman of Queensland Trustees, of
Finney Isles, of Carricks, the timber
people, and a local director of the A.M.P.
Also, for long he sat on the board of
Brisbane Newspaper Co., Foggitt Jones
and a number of other concerns. A
level-headed, kindly, well-read man, with
all his commercial interests he found
time for 38 years to act as organist and
choirmaster at a Methodist church, to
preside for some time over the affairs of
the Austral Choir, and to take an active
part in Masonry and Rotary. His sons
will carry on his work.
* * * *
“Red Hill”: The man who once in-
sulted the patriotism of Brisbane by call-
ing it a “quiet little country town”
should see it now. Last week a gather-
ing of progress-association delegates was
demanding subways in the streets and a
new type of traffic control, while casual-
ties rose as thick as in any border war.
Street accidents have numbered over 200
in a fortnight. In one week there were
87 motor accidents out of a total of 126
of all classes.
* * * *
“North”: They do things on a grand
scale up beyond the Berserkers. Proser-
pine (N.Q.) is to have an aerodrome—and
no pocket-handkerchief plot like Mascot
and Essendon for Proserpine. The bur-
gesses have secured the resumption of
200 acres on which to carve out their
aerial future.
* * * *
“J.W.”: Exit, in Bowen (N.Q.), Matron
Amelia Field, who a generation ago
opened The Palms, one of Queensland’s
best-known private hospitals. There
2000 young North Queenslanders were
born. Bowen has a family of 11, and
all had their first smack from Nurse
Field.
* * * *
“Mookau”: Brice Henry, who has de-
veloped the Tully coastal fattening
scheme, doesn’t do things by halves. He
arranged for Fox Films to make a 6000-
foot movie of the project. First, pic-
tures were taken of the 3000 cattle being
groomed for the meatworks'at Tully;
then the photographers were carried by
aeroplane to Abingdon Downs, Cape
York Peninsula, where 4000 cattle were
mustered.
* * * *
“Clayfield”: How rapidly the face of
Brisbane is changing is shown by the
shift of the banks. Two years ago, the
Commonwealth bought a corner of
Adelaide and Albert streets for a savings-
bank site. Last month the ’Wales secured
an Adelaide-street site near Edward-
street, and the National has followed suit.
Its site is ! one which any thirsty
northerner might envy. It lies between
the bar of Lennon’s and the Daniel.
There is pub on three sides of it.
“Somerset Sam”: Nether Cape York,
the earliest part of Australia discovered
by white men, is acquiring its first road,
which will link the Batavia River gold-
fields and Portland Roads. It will be
50 miles long when finished, and the
construction job is tough. Creeks, thick
scrub, mosquitoes and fever are normal
obstacles, and the rainfall makes Assam
seem like a drought-stricken desert.
Around Batavia they don’t remark that
it is “beginning to spit” till die first 18in.
have fallen and the river is running a
banker.
* * *
“Gain”: It isn’t only in New Guinea
that there is indiscipline among natives.
Papua suffers, too. A customs man dis-
covered one Beata smoking on the whait
and* told him to put out his cigarette.
Beata remarked loftily that plenty of
other people were smoking, and took an-
other puff. He presently found himseil
in court, and said he did not know that
the white man who had ordered him was
a customs officer. The Court fined him
10s. Beata has reason to be glad that
he did not live 30 years earlier. In those
halcyon days he would have found him-
self at Government labor. And it would
not have mattered who ordered him not
to smoke.
£ * * *
“Yin Kwok”: Strikes me a lot of old
northerners are going to lose their jobs
through the new N.T. Mining Inspec-
tion Ordinance. It describes a mine as
“a place where any operation for the
purpose of obtaining any metal or
mineral has been or is being carried on,
or where the products of such a place aie
being treated.” Then it sets out that no
person who cannot speak English reach v
and intelligibly and read it when
written or printed shall hold a crucial
job on top, and nobody who cannot
speak it readily and intelligibly may
yakka underground. The Chinese
swearing which that is likely to breed
among Asiatic prospectors will be
worth hearing; but there are points
about the precaution, apart from its
White Australian angle, as my old
friend Mangrove Mike would agree.
Mike lived by a river off the Gulf. A
broken arm reducing him to a fish diet,
and dynamite being the only known
method of fishing, he roped in Ah Hop
the gardener to act as his bowler. They
adjourned to the river bank. Mike
tenderly clamped a fuse into a detonator
with his teeth, loaded the plug with his
left claw, handed the lot to Ah Hop and
said: “Now, you savee —along me
talkee ‘Fire,’, you lightee him, throwee
him, faitee faitee.” He stood back to
give Ah Hop room. Ah Hop grinned as
if he liked the game, struck a vesta on
his pants, lit the fuse. “Fire!” shouted
Mike ; “throw him.” Ah Hop fortunately
took careful aim before he “threw him ’
—to Mike. But by the time the missile
had arrived, Mike wasn’t there —he had
won the lightning-dive record of Car-
pentaria, and was where the dynamite
should have been.
* * * *
“X.T.”: One of the Royal Humane
Society’s six silver medals issued this
year went to James Texas Bennett, a
miner of Hatches Creek (N.T.), for the
rescue of a mate during an accident.
Queenslanders received 16 awards.
-it * * *
“Ethnos”: “Colbun” (B. 26/7/’39) in-
sists that the Murray Islanders never
practised human sacrifice, and that the
accounts of the Torres Strait god of
fertility, Waiet, on exhibition in the
Queensland Museum, have been exagger-
ated ; but his dogmatism is evidently based
on limited knowledge. Dr. Haddon, the
anthropologist, who carefully studied the
islanders and their customs, has published
definite accounts of actual sacrifices in
the Waiet cult. The fact that the Murray
Islanders are supposed to have been good
Christians for the last 60 years is quite
irrelevant. Some of our own ancestors
have probably been cannibals if we go
back far enough.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: There’s a sequel to the
story of 68-year old Bill Symonds (B.
19/7/ ’39) and his eight-day foodless
perish with a broken leg. As he dozed
in hospital a strange wailing cry re-
sounded from far off. “What’s that
noise?” he asked. “It’s the new whistle
at the powerhouse, Bill,” a patient told
him ; “only put in last week.” “That’s
good to know,” said the old hero. “I was
cooeeing back to it out there every few
hours until I got too weak, thinking it
was some poor chap bushed and worse
off than me. Just reminded me that I’d
forgotten to mention it, not feeling too
good when I got here!” Kindness in
another’s trouble, courage in your own,
all right!


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
■
II Jft
I him
ill ti
iilil
HHi
I
m
m
m
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates—unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra. N
Rooms only from 6/6 per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE,” Sydney .
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“The giraffe depends on the leaves and the
young shoots for its living.” —Wireless talk.
But not, we hope, at its parents.
“Robbed While in Dentist Chair.”— “Sun.”
Anyone’s likely to lose his nerve there.
v 'l* *3* *3*
“An Eskimo woos his intended with a club.”
—Sydney weekly.
That hits the problem right on the head.
•3* -I- *3* *3-
“New fashion powder compacts are made in
the shape of telephone dials.”
Girls hope, by their use, to get the en-
gaged signal.
*3* *3* *3* *3-
Some squatters are more concerned
about their stations in society.
“There is no hell.”— wills.
Then what is it that henpecked hus- (
bands get? <
*3- *1- -I- -I-
“There’s absolutely no thrill in landing a
thousand-pound ' swordfish.” —Sporting gossip.
The real thrill lies in describing the
two-thousand-pound one that got away.
“She did her utmost to conceal with make-
up the large bruise where he had punched her
in the face.” —Short story.
Made the best of a bad job, as it were.
•J* *i* ❖
Some men will stand anything— except
a round of drinks.
•i* •i-
-“ Most modern girls are ignorant of the
culinary arts.”— Cookery book.
Nevertheless, they have no trouble
cooking up a scheme to get a man with
dough.
❖
“Radio-announcer to write his autobio-
graphy.”—“Listener In.”
Compressed-air ?
•J* •!>
There are two kinds of pedestrians, the
quick and the dead.
•b v
“Would you believe that engineers can bore
a hole five miles deep I”—Scientific magazine.
Yes, we’ve just had a couple of teeth
filled.
“What happens when old favorites are ren-
dered over the wireless?” —Wireless paper.
They cease to be favorites.
•3* 4*
“Our Airminded Politicians.” — Daily.
Most of them seem to be up in the
clouds.
•3* *3* *3* *3*
Even the boxer who knows his onions
is liable to get cauliflower ears.
•3* *3* *3* *3*
“Explain briefly the difference between a
statesman and a politician.”— Children’s exam,
paper.
A statesman is one who does some-
thing for his country; a politician one
who does his country for something.
“You can take him when you finish that skein, and not before!"
"Are you getting on in years?” — Advt.
Most women would rather dye than say
yes.
•3* *3* *3* *3*
The Japanese Diet doesn’t seem to
agree with the Chinese Constitution.
“Even in a crowded bus, a keen student of
human nature can invariably recognise a poli-
tician.” — Article.
By the way they hang on to their seats?
•i*
Many a man has exchanged single
bliss for a matrimonial blister.
+ ❖
“A husband should set an example to his
wife.”— “Sun.”
She is usually ready to take a leaf
from his book—provided it’s a cheque-
book.
‘Men expect women to be the proverbial
‘little angels.’ ” — Women’s paper
And if they’re not their husbands rave
like the devil.
+ 4" 4* 4*
“Judge sends man to gaol on his birthday.”
That will be all for the present.
*l* *i*
“The principle of ‘pump priming to pro-
mote prosperity’ has a fateful fascination for
politicians. As a political panacea it is per-
petually popular on any pretext. But much
less pleasant is the parallel principle oi
‘piping down’ when the priming has achieved
its purpose.”— -“Tilley’s Quarterly
Pass this pearl of precision on to those
Parliamentarians.
4 1 4* ♦
Even when a man marries an angel
he occasionally wants her to fly away.
“A cheap, appetising dish is ‘colonial goose.’
First you bone a leg of mutton....”
—Newspaper recipe.
But what if you’re seen by the butcher?
The Stickler.
As I was strolling down the street
A man on whom Dame Luck had
smiled
In years agone I chanced to meet.
His eyes were meek, his mien was mild.
His pants were patched, his coat was
torn,
His shirt a frayed and black disgrace.
Hit hat was stained, his shoes were worn,
And care was written on his face.
His cardigan, a size too small,
Was far too thin to keep him warm.
And when I asked, “What caused your
fall?”
My friend replied, “I followed form.”
P. O. M. C.
Love Lyric.
e
Driving with Difficulties.
1 A N.Z. Court found that a Maori was too
corpulent to drive his car in safety.”
—“Sunday Sun.”
My Aunt Susie was similarly afflicted.
Developing into a first-class gunboat in
her late forties, she encountered great
difficulties with her car.
She had to use a specially shortened
steering wheel, and always keep the side
door partly open. Even then a deep
breath often made her blow the horn un-
expectedly, and her avoirdupois com-
pletely obscured the brakes and gear-
handle. This involved her in countless
accidents, but she still made gallant
efforts to adjust herself to the situation.
She tried taking out the front seat and
driving from the back. This brought
the brakes, etc., into visibility, but as she
had to wear stilts to reach the accelera-
tor pedal she couldn’t get the “feel” of it
properly.
She then tried taking the back off the
front seat, sitting back to front, and driv-
ing in reverse. This proved fairly com-
fortable, but had the disadvantage of
making her steer from memory.
One day Auntie sneezed in heavy traffic.
Not only did she force the sides out of
the car, but the reverberation shook loose
the rear-vision mirror by which she was
steering, and she piled into a P.D. car.
That was the end of Auntie’s license.
T. N. NATHAN.
The Most Terrible Task.
“Pull yourself together, Speed Gor-
don ! ” said Dale. “Why, you are
trembling like a leafoon! You, the in-
trepid conqueror of Mongo!”
“I know, Dale, I know.”
“Look how fearlessly you faced lion-
men, tigroons, leopardodons and even
twitodons.”
“Well, Dale, you see, we have come
back to earth now, and”
“Surely after the way you bested Ming
the Merciless”
“Aw, this is different, Dale.”
“Is that the bold Speed talking? What
are you frightened of? Why, they know
all about you. Your deeds have rung
round the world. They know the dangers
we have shared.”
“That’s just it, Dale! They know we
have been together through all those ad-
ventures, and they may want”
“Pluck up, Speed Gordon, before I
despise you! Here, I have mixed you
a stiff whiskytododon. Drink it! And
come on!”
Fortified, Speed followed Dale as she
pulled him along to meet her parents
and explain to them how it happened
that he and Dale had gone wandering
about another planet for so long in
strange situations without getting married.
H. M.
“Even in these modern days the first year
of marriage is still a trial.”— Women’s paper.
The youthful husband looked as sad
As only modern husbands look.
He threw his apron off and cried:
“l feel I’ll never learn to cook !”
ELM.
How to Become a Handyman.
A Complete Guide.
XVII.
A shower having brought pounds of
soot into the dining-room it is clear that
the chimney needs sweeping.
Make a preliminary test by getting in-
side the chimney from the room (your
head and shoulders will do), and scrape
a double handful of soot from the sides.
Throw this as far up the chimney as
you can, and carefully note its passage.
If it is drawn up and out at the top the
draught is strong enough to allow you
to attack the problem from the roof,
using the suction method. If, on the
other hand, the soot falls back on your
face, tackle it from the room end.
In the former case, take the vacuum-
cleaner up on the roof. If the flex
is found to be insufficiently long to
reach from the power point out through
the back door and up the ladder to the
chimney-top, try a more direct route up
through the bathroom manhole and out
through one of the tiles. Should it stil!
be short, you will need more wire.
If you have any spare covered twin-
flex wire available, just sever the cord
on the vacuum anywhere along its length,
and to its bared ends solder the ends of
the piece you are inserting. If, however,
you have none, and you happen to be
doing the job on a week-end and cannot
buy any, press any bared wire into ser-
vice. Don’t use barbed wire unless you
have nothing else. If you do use it, you
will have to snip the barbs off, as these
would probably cause a short circuit.
One single strand of bared wire is no
good. Take two and plait them neatly.
Now solder the ends of this makeshift
flex on to the vacuum cord. But when
you take this elongated flex up on to the
roof don’t forget to put plenty of non-
conducting material, such as rubber over-
coats, goloshes or the baby’s waterproof-
sheet, between any bared wire and the
skillion roof or other parts where con-
tact may mean danger. Safety first!
When you are astride the chimney with
everything in position, get the wife to
turn on the juice at the power point.
Insert the roving nozzle of the vacuum
cleaner into the chimney, working gradu-
ally down from the top, then throw down
the switch on the handle. When you
calculate that the bag is about full switch
off, * detach the bag and shake the soot
out. Most of the soot will get away,
but, in deference to your neighbors, don’t
shake it if a strong wind is blowing.
Repeat the process until the chimney
is quite clear.
If as you approach the base of the
chimney the soot becomes too thick to
get off by suction alone, get a long stick
and poke down, taking care to keep the
nozzle alongside where you are remov-
ing the soot. In this way the soot will
immediately be sucked into the bag.
The job cannot be considered prop-
erly finished until you have nailed the
scrubbing-brush on to a long piece of
wood, and with a strong solution of
’caustic soda scrubbed the inside of the
chimney thoroughly. You can rebristle
the brush afterwards in your spare time.
I: only remains then to hose down roof,
walls, paths and self, and job is done.
Doing the work from the inside is
quicker, though perhaps slightly messier.
Just drag the carpet over until it is flush
beneath the chimney face. Place two
wide boards at right angles to the chim-
ney so as to prevent the soot from
spreading out on the felt surround or
the polished boards. Then tie the spade
to a sajpling and run the blade (see first
that it is sharp) up each .side of the chim-
ney right to the top. Do this on all four
sides until every bit of soot is dislodged.
Better wear glasses. Also, get a close
haircut before you start, and after it is
finished don’t forget to turn down the
cuffs of your trousers.
When all the soot is on the carpet
gather up the four ends and carry it
carefully out to the garden. Tip the
soot on the patch where you propose
putting the spuds in, throw the carpet
over the clothesline and hose it down.
In any case, the soot should not harm
the carpet. Everyone knows that cigar
ash is beneficial to carpets, and, after all,
the only difference between that and soot
is that the latter is the ash from coal.
With some cigars very little difference
can be detected.
S. W. K.


AUSTRALIAN
BARKERS
BITERS
&ND
Robert
256 Pages
(illustrated).
The Australian Cattle-dog,
the Kelpie, the Barb,
Bush Greyhounds, Fox-
terriers and many
others in this
splendid book
on Dogs.
Now reduced
to 2/2
(post
free).
e
/
/ .\\ e $
/
x rt
/>o*
/ o°
/ -e **>
»"W
;^ e €f 0 '
TRANSMITTER DIALS.
1
Individually spun,
heavy solid nickel
dials with engraved
divisions and
handsome knob.
Diarn. 4in.
Price, retail, 12/9.
Write for leaflet
o n RAYMART
Transmitting Con-
densers. Everything
radio and electrical
at the Lowest
Prices in the State.
“The Friendly Wholesale House.”
Telephone: BWSIO9 {2 lines).
Telegrams: “J'onmar” 'Sydney.
116-118 Clarence Street.
Sydney.
“SELL”
WITH METROPOLITAN, PRIMARY
PRODUCING & GOLDFIELDS
—COVERAGE—
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGES.
Low Voltage "B Batteryless"
Receiver.
In B. 26/7/’39 reference was made to
a promised description in “Radio-Craft”
(U.S.A.) of something new in the way of
dry-cell-powered receivers, wherein fila-
ment and plate power should be derived
from a single 1.5-volt dry cell. Details
are now given in the American publi-
cation, and, as surmised, the plate volt-
age is obtained by the use of a vibratory
power unit. It is the first time that refer-
ence has been made anywhere to a vibra-
tor working from only 14 volts, the unit
used for the receiver being a special job,
commercially produced in U.S.A. The
idea- is interesting from an experimental
point of view, and details are given of
the receiver for the benefit of advanced
constructors who might like to try their
hand at the making of such a vibrator.
Units of the kind specified are not on the
Australian market.
The receiver, as can be seen from the
circuit diagram, is a simple tuned R.F.
type, using a IHSG as R.F. amplifier,
IHSG detector and IQSG beam-power
audio stage. The valves indicated in the
diagram are of the bantam series, shown
by the addition of the letter T, but the
usual 1.4-volt valves as available here are
readily applicable. The T.R.F. circuit
was selected in preference to the super-
het because of its greater simplicity, and
as the receiver stands it is nothing more
nor less than a straight T.R.F. 1.4 volt-
type job for 90 volts of plate power. -That
can .be obtained directly from light-duty
B batteries, and the receiver could be
made up very compactly. It could, by
the use of very small components and
Fig. I. —Circuit of the three-valve T.R.F. dry cell receiver
used with special vibrator unit for plate voltage.
specially small B battery, be made into
a handy little pocket type set. capable o£
pulling in all local stations with ease.
Because it was desirable to keep the
current consumption as low as possible
when using the vibrator unit (c.rcu,
diagram of which is given here), grid bias
for the audio stage is obtained by bias
cells. These can consist of very small
1-L-volt cells in series for the required
bias voltage. As the circuit of the vibra-
tor shows, it is of the synchronous self-
rectifying type, and from the 1.5-volt
“doorbell” filament cell delivers 90 volts
at about nine milliamperes, just about
sufficient for the receiver.
The vibrator load is about 500 milli- ■
amneres It is evident from the refer-
ences to the original vibrator unit that
; t is a very delicately adjusted apparatus,
working from the initially low voltage of
14. Vibrators approach an efficiency of
60 per cent., and that efficiency is much
less at sub-normal A cell voltage. The
vibrator unit applied to this receiver is
complete with all filter components and
step-up transformer, and is quite free of
mechanical and electrical hum.
It was taken into consideration by the
designers of the receiver that a single
dry cell for total power supply is a big
advantage, being quickly replaceable. In
Australia every country town has at least
one store with both A and B dry cells
available, and fresh B batteries seem to be
available almost anywhere.
Another point the American writer
stresses in favor of the vibrator unit is
that there are only two battery leads to
Fig. 2.—Schematic circuit of the vibrator B unit. Condenser C is .smfd.
connect to the receiver, so that it is im-
possible accidentally to put a B battery
across the filaments. The Australian 1.4
volt-type receiver manufacturer has taken
care to provide foolproof connectors for
the batteries.
The special vibrator B unit would
naturally cost more than would an indi-
vidual 90-volt B battery, but, provided
that the vibrator seldom requires replace-
ment, the upkeep should be practically
nil.
Whatever the
future application,
the idea of using a
highly perfected
and “A” driven B
supply unit (such
as the synchronous
vibrator in a noise-
proofed housing
and delivering per-
fectly noise- and
hum - free power
output sufficient for
several valves, yet
operating from a
single dry cell
source of power) to
deliver a com-
pletely uniform
current output at
a specified terminal
voltage seems to
be an original and
widely applicable
development. With
the vibrator unit
produced for the
original receiver and a current drain
of about 500 ma., cut-off at 1.1 volts
and operating four hours per day,
engineers of the leading Amei ican
dry-cell manufacturing co. have esti-
mated that different types of 1.5-volt dry
cells will give services ranging between
32 and 300 hours. If an Air Cell is ap-
plied, 600 hours can be expected.
D. B. K.
Radio Comment.
A new ISO-kilowalt transm.tter has
just been opened and taken over by tn<e
German Minister of-Posts. J*
at Herzberg, 56 miles south of Berlin,
The mast is the radiator, and is moie
than 1000 ft. high. It is surrounded at the
top by a capacity ring 80ft. in diameter.
Further masts will shortly be used in
phase to overcome fading, and the power
will be increased very considerably.
* * * *
During an eastward journey on the
Yankee Clipper, Pan American Airways’
transatlantic flying-boat, an official of
that company had a radiotelephone con-
versation with a passenger on Cunard-
White Star’s Queen Mary. The ship was
34 days out from New York and the
aircraft 15 hours out.
* * * *
“Querex”: Radio development in
Australia has in the last four years
gone so American that everything
is based on radio valves of U.S.A.
origin. Beyond one or two special
types used in two makes of commercial
receivers produced by one Continental
valve manufacturer, the many European
valve types of a few years ago have dis-
appeared. Perusal of English radio pub-
lications reveals that the radio engineer
and experimenter are missing a great deal
through not having ready access to re-
cently-designed types of European valves.
The valve people probably consider that
radio design has become “stabilised” in
Australia on American types, and that in
any case radio factories are not inclined
to depart from accepted practice. That
may be so, but there are certain types of
English and Continental valves with out-
standing characteristics, as there are also
many American types that never
reach the Australian market. The Eng-
lish valve manufacturer has a dead
market these days in this country, and
radio engineers and those who like to
experiment along progressive lines are
losers thereby.
Considerations for
Constructors.
e
ing-type tuning condensers in transmit-
ters some relief from arcing may be had
by reducing the L in the tank and bring-
ing the circuit back to resonance by in-
creasing capacity. Low-C means smaller
circulating R.F. currents and appropri-
ately higher R.F. voltages ; the opposite
applies to high-Q, and therefore the
strain across the condenser plates is less.
* * * *
“p. A. Work”: To avoid wrong con-
nections of field and voice leads on
speakers either “valve-base” types of
plugs or standard power-point connectors
may be used. The latter score where
a neat job at the speaker end is needed
and where baseboard mounting valve
sockets are unobtainable. Two- and
three-pin outlets mount neatly on switch
blocks on the back of the baffle, and it
the two-pin one is of the polarised type
there can be no upset of phasing.
Television Topics.
Sixty London theatres are to be
equipped with Scophony large-screen in-
stallations. That done, 300 others in the
provinces will be attended to.
A newspaper publishing co. in an
American city has applied to the F.C.C.
for permission to inaugurate an experi-
mental television service to the public.
This is the first application in U.S.A. for
the establishment of an experimental pro-
gramme service for reception in the home
as distinct from fundamental research or
technical experiment. Licenses have been
issued previously for technical experi-
ment only.
At Hurst House School, Staplehurst,
Kent (Eng.), scholars are given lessons
with the assistance of a television re-
ceiver. News reels and the televising of
such events as the “trooping of the color”
provide the subject-matter for general
teaching.
Contrary to the theory that television
programmes can only be received at a
limited distance from the transmitter,
G.E.C. engineers in Schenectady (U.S.A.)
using a standard console receiver picked
up the complete two-hour programme
from the Empire State Building, New
York. Both picture and sound were re-
ceived exceptionally well despite the fact
that the distance from the transmitter was
130 miles and the receiver was located
approximately 8000 ft. below “line of
sight.” In England distances consider-
ably in excess of 130 miles have been
spanned. The test was made on 26/5/’39,
and a group of engineers erected a tem-
porary diamond directive aerial array.
It was suspended from four masts, with
the plane of a diamond parallel to and
about 40ft. above the ground. The aerial
occupied a space on ground of about
300 ft. by 600 ft. Tests were conducted
close to the location chosen for the new
high-power G.E. television station,
which is being put up in the Helderberg
mountains, 12 miles from Schenectady.
New Radio Valve.
A new ultra-short-wave radio valve
employing the principle of velocity modu-
lation has been announced by engineers
of the G.E.C., U.S.A.
Application of the new valve to aero-
plane altimeters would enable pilots to
judge distances in blind landings up to
the instant of contact with the ground.
The same instrument equipped with the
new valve could be pointed in front of
a ’plane flying in heavy weather to warn
of mountains or other obstacles in its
path to a distance of several miles.
The valve generates an ultra-short wave
which may be directed like the beam of
a searchlight. This beam makes it pos-
sible to measure distances by reflection.
Directed at the ground, or any other
obstacle, the beam would bounce back
to the ’plane. The altimeter would im-
mediately record and translate into a
measure of distance the time required for
reflection of the beam.
Highly accurate measurements are pos-
sible with the new valve, which generates
a wave but 14 centimetres long (about
five and one-half inches). It is expected
that the principle involved should permit


SKY- RAIDER
COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVER
8-125 METRES
Broadcast Range
Available.
• ELECTRIC
BAND SPREAD
•IRON CORE
I.F.’s
• AIRTIGHT
PERMEABILITY
TUNED COILS
• A.V.C. WITH
SWITCH
• 8.F.0. (Variable)
• BEAM POWER
AUDIO.
Reliance, builders of Aus-
tralia’s Idrgest receiver, the
20-valve Y ork-Royal, now supplies
a long-felt need in DX reception.
Call and see this new Sky-Raider at
Reliance House, or write for full details
of its features and amazing performance.
It’s a set of which Australia can be justly
proud!
SUPER
DX9
* .»■
EASY
TERMS ! 1
■
w
RELIANCE RADIO
PTY.
LTD.
RELIANCE HOUSE,
14 BARRACK ST., SYDNEY
With New Gland Treatment.
Loss of youthful vigor and vitality an
premature old age are due to deficient
gland functioning. 821 GLAND TONI(
TABLETS contain genuine glandula
extract. Will definitely re-
juvenate you and banish weak-
ness. Price 10/6. Call or
write to-day for particulars of
this amazing new treatment.
T. JONES CO.,
CHEMISTS,
319 George St., Sydnev
e
generation of waves down to one centi-
metre or less.
By means of previously available
valves, waves less than a centimetre in
length have been produced in various
research laboratories. The new velocity
modulated valve, however, represents a
distinct advance in that it is more flexible
and has a more efficient power output
than anything heretofore known.
While fully developed and tested in the
laboratory, the new valve will not be
available for commercial distribution for
some time.
Beams produced by the new valve
would have a wide application in navi-
gation as well as flying. Ships could
steer a safe course through heavy fog by
using the beam to measure the distance
to land or to other vessels.
RADGEST.
"Radio" (U.S.A.) for July.
Current issue of “Radio” has some
useful technical articles for the DX man,
two examples being “Simplicity in an
Electron-coupled Exciter,” by W6CEM,
and “The Overgrown Lazy H Array,”
by W6BCX. The first will appeal to
those who seek continually to park a
signal 20 metres somewhere in, the
clear,” and the other to those who must
use fixed aerial arrays for directional
communication. Other articles in this
issue are “A Portable Frequency Stand-
ard,” by WIAY; “1852 Converter for
Fixed Station Use,” by W9BNX and
W9QDA; ‘,‘Filament Valves in the
Mobile Transmitter,” by W6DHG ; and
Phone Break-in with Loudspeaker
Operation,” by W2BFD. Subscription to
“Radio” is 18s. 6d. per year, payable at
The Bulletin office, 252 George-street,
Sydney. Copies are mailed direct from
the publishers and not from the Sydney
office.
Amateur Chatter.
During Saturday nights’ 56mc. trans-
missions in Sydney by VK2IQ for the
u.-h.-f. section of W.1.A., N.S.W. Divi-
sion, the quality of the musical reproduc-
tion from recordings is noteworthy.
Transmission commences at 8 p.m.
An endeavor to contact ZLs on 80
metres by a 56mc. link was made on
30/7/’39, when VK2LZ, located in Went-
worth Falls, 60 miles from Sydney, trans-
mitted on 80 metres, relaying the 56mc.
transmissions from VK2NO. No con-
tacts were established, conditions being
very noisy owing to static on the lower
frequency, and because the only receiver
available at the time for 56mc. was a
transceiver. The test is to be repeated
with output from the 56mc. superhet
receiver at VK2LZ. Several stations are
active on 56mc. in Sydney, improvement
in signal strength being noted from VKs
2AJO, 2ACR and 2YE.
Most nights on 80 metres several ZLs
are extremely strong, those outstanding
being ZL3IF in Greymouth and ZL2BE
in Hastings. VK2VU, Singleton (N.S.W.),
was heard on 80-metre ’phone at VK2NO
at R 8 at 4 p.m. on 30/7/’39. But for
the.BCL QRM problem, that band would
be infinitely preferable for daylight work-
ing up to 400 miles or so than 40 metres,
and it is remarkable that it is not used
more in daylight hours.
A.W.A.’s seven-metre station, VK2MA,
located in Sydney, and active with relays
of VK2ME at week-ends, has been heard
in New York, U.S.A., according to advice
from an American source. There is a
big difference between seven and five
metres, but such reports are encouraging
to experimenters on the higher frequency.
The third contact between England and
Italy took place on 56mc. during June,
when GBGQ worked with Italian IIKM.
Distance between the two countries ap-
proximates that between VK and ZL, but
so far the only reports of signals between
Australia and Maoriland have been of
VKs being heard in ZL.
The best band for up-and-down-the-
country communication at present is un-
doubtedly 80 metres. Many of the old
hands have reopened on 80—VKs 2HC,
2NS, 2XQ, 2ZC, 2HZ, 2LZ, 2VN, 2CI
A fine example of modern commercially-designed high-
powered u.-h.-f. transmitting equipment-the Philips six-
metre transmitter, using two air-cooled transmitting valves in
push-pull, delivering six kilowatts output power. The carbon
filament lamps, upper left, form an artificial aerial load to
which the power is supplied during adjustment. The air-
cooled valves are a recent development for high-power u.-h.-f.
transmission.
and 2NO are all there. Outstanding sig-
nals are from VKs 2KQ and 3WE, two
faithful adherents to this very useful
band. On some nights the signal strength
of many ZLs on ’phone is astonishing,
one ZL3 on the night of 25/7/’39 holding
the R meter needle hard over on the pin
on the DX-9 Sky-Raider. VK2CI, Mere-
wether (N.S.W.), is well known for the
quality of his 7mc. ’phone; on 3.5mc. it
is even better. A portable at VK2CI
has been heard at R 6 at VK2NO with
a fraction of a watt input power, indi-
cating what can be done on this band.
Tests with a 56mc. coaxial aerial at
VK2ZH revealed interesting results on
the S metre of the receiver at VK2IQ,
14 miles distant. The coaxial was sus-
pected of not taking the load properly,
and comparison was made with a twisted-
pair doublet which showed more R.F.
when checked by the absorption meter.
The coaxial gave a gain of Bdb over
the plain doublet on the S meter. A most
important point was discovered in con-
nection v/ith the concentric cable. If
such cable is used with a portion coiled,
considerable loss of R.F. to the aerial
results. In one case a coiled section of
10ft. was proved to behave similarly to
an R.F. choke at 56mc., effectively pre-
venting most of the R.F. from reaching
the aerial. Either that or the coiling con-
siderably altered the initial impedance
of 64 ohms. Use concentric cable with-
out any complete loops, and use only
the length needed to feed the aerial.
Eric Trebilcock, ex-BERSI9S and now
VKSTK, outstanding listener on amateur
bands, has left his Powell Creek, N.T.,
location for a job in aviation radio. He
has eight weeks’ leave in Adelaide, and
will be later at an
instructional school
in Sydney. Others
selected by C.A.D.
for aeradio training
are VKs 4WH and
SGA. .
As in U.S.A.,
56mc. DX shows up
at intervals in Eng-
land, and early in
June this year sev-
eral provincial sta-
tions in Nottingham-
shire were able to
work with Lon-
doners. The dis-
tances are in excess
of 100 miles. On
May 31 and June 1
exceptionally strong
telephony signals
were picked up in
London from G6CW
and GBJV, th e
former working at
the time with G2MV
in Coulsdon, Surrey.
On this occasion the
signal from the
northern station was
as clear and strong
in London as those
usually heard from
stations five miles
away. On June 1, at
around 10.15 p.m.
8.5. T., marked fad-
ing and flutter were
noticed, signals peak-
ing to R 8 and later
fading. Later in the
month there was
slow and deep fad-
ing. These abnor-
mal conditions occur
from time to time, and do not seem to be
related in any way with the seasons. Until
the band is used more consistently and
by a greater number of stations, oppor-
tunities for unusual 56mc. communica-
tion in Australia will be lost.
Some useful advice for ’phone men
from N.Z.A.R.T.L.’s “Break-In”:
“When you speak into the microphone
the meter in the modulated Class C stage
should remain steady. The downward
wobbling which frequently does occur
is caused by the non-linearity of the Class
C stage ; on positive peaks of modulation
the current does not rise as much as it
falls on negative peaks. A ’phone trans-
mitter is not a code-adjusted transmitter
with a modulator connected in. If exci-
tation is sufficient, bias obtained from
leak and fixed supply, and modulator of
suitable power, then the downward kick
is due to the impedance of the final
tank circuit being too low to permit the
Class C stage to be linear. Cures are (a)
more inductance and less capacity in final
tank circuit, ( b) higher Q coil —more suit-
able conductor or coil shape, (c) in most
cases (a) and ( b ) are reasonably well satis-
fied, but either the antenna coupling is
left as for code, or the usual directions
for coupling the antenna until correct
match to the modulators is obtained have
been followed. Reduce antenna coup-
ling until the plate meter can just be
made to kick upward on peaks. Then
increase plate voltage until correct power
input to match the modulator is obtained.
Lastly alter the matching of the modu-
lator transformer to suit the load offered
by the Class C stage under the new con-
ditions. The only kick obtainable should
be upwards on peak modulation. Try it
and cut out side-band splatter and BCL
QRM on 3.5mc.”
Peter Adams, ZL2JX, editor of “Break-
In and previously VK2IX, is radio engi-
neer with Radio Corporation of N.Z. He
is looking around for a good location
to establish his DX gear, at present tem-
porarily established at ZL2VM’s shack.
A remarkably good ’phone signal is
heard at night on 3.5mc. from VK2ALD,
who is Rev. R. B. Dransfield, of Bungen"
dore (N.S.W.). Input power is but five
watts further proof that much more
than that is not essential for fairly local
communication generally. The other end
of the scale in power is shown in some
of the outstanding ZLs. On the night
of 31/9/’39, ZL2IB, who mentioned
something about a pair of IOOTH’s in the
final, was QSO W6DON and W7AQX
on this band at 11 p.m. Sydney time.
The two Americans were clear at
VK2NO at R6/7, the W 7 being some-
what better than the W 6. ZLs must go
to a great deal of trouble in suppressing
BCL QRM, as there are about 10 Maori-
landers on the band to one VK, and the
band is seldom without its trans-Tasman
’phones.
Authorities in England seem reluctant
to make use of amateurs for A.R.P.
work, referring those who offer their ser-
vices and stations to the civilian wireless
reserve. One A.R.P. warden in Sheffield,
Yorks, however, makes good use of
u.-h.-fs. With a transceiver in his car he
patrols streets over an area of two miles,
and maintains communication with local
A. headquarters.
VK2VU, Singleton (N.S.W.), finds 3.5
even better than 7mc. for daylight com-
munication. His first venture on the
band brought -an R 8 two-way ’phone
QSO at 3 p.m. from VK4HA in Bris-
bane. That was followed by VK2NY in
Grafton and a Victorian. More use
could be made of 3.5mc. for daylight
QSOs, and if the B.C.L. problem is a
deterrent to ’phone men it certainly isn’t
to the key-handlers. The nightmare of
B. QRM on 80 metres is rather over-
rated, as a little application to detail
in transmitter design, with due regard to
harmonic suppression and balanced feed-
lines will work wonders.
VK2NO.


w
NOCK & KIRBY LTD.
“AUTOCHAIN” WIRE STRAINER
When
Ordering
Please Add
FREIGHT
“Autochain” Automatic Wive
Strainer does a quicker, better
job on longer lengths of wire-
one man can strain any length
of fence. Securely grips all
sizes, classes and quantities of
wire, including Steel—does not
in any way damage, mark or
ill till J _
kink the wire, and incorporates the best and gnp set
discovered. Specially suitable for wne. fitted with
long handle, permitting greater pull. l
13/6
e
“Buffalo”
POST
DRILL
Light Duty Post
Dril —h and an d
automatic fee d —
non-slip chuck is
accurately machined
and holds regular
Blacksmith Drills with
iin. shank in perfect
alignment. Drills to centre
of Tin. circle.
PRICE
47/6
m
*
“Joplin” British-made Semi Steel Vise
—new type gun met al nut—front jaw
and slide are one piece.
Jaws 2tin. oin. 3-tin. 4in. Sin.
1* KICKS: 13/6 16/6 3!J/6 30/6 41/6
“Weston”
Differential
Chain Pulley
BLOCK
Self-sustaining, will
hold their load at any
point—malleable iron
frames and crossheads
—heavy drop-forged
heat-treated swivel
hooks —supplied with
40ft. tested steel chain
giving a 1 Oft', lift. New
Departure Ball - Bear-
ings—-finest : English
Manufacture.
I ton . . 47/6
1 Ton . 57/6
w
TOOL CATALOGUE
You will find our profusely .illustrated
CO-page Tool Catalogue an invaluable
guide when ordering by Mail—Write
to-day for your I'TtEE Copy.
Nock & Kirby’s Stores are no further than your nearest Post Office.
Mail Orders receive prompt attention by expert Assistants, who are
thoroughly conversant with Country Requirements.
MOCKS KIRBY LTII
Postal Address. ..BOX 4250 Y G.P.O. SYDNEY
CAsS€Aj\i*£
w
A
YOUR*^
Commercial
Illustrating embraces Caricaturing
Cartooning, Drawing for Magazines,
and all aspects of Advertising Art..
WONDERFUL OPPORTUNITIES
exist in this Profession for people
with drawing ability, who are will-
ing to be trained by first-class
tutors.
The A.T.I. is the only school which
can provide correspondence train-
ing of sufficiently high calibre to
GUARANTEE SUCCESS!
FREE TESTS!
e
If YOU can
draw, write for
Our 32-page
booklet—
“ Art Ability
Tests!”
Absolutely no
cost or obliga-
tion if you
ment i o n
“The Bulletin.”
ART TRAINING
INSTITUTE
80 Swanston St., Melbpurne, Vic.
w
e
MENDANA’S MISTAKE
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
WHEN Lope Garcia de Castro,
Viceroy of Peru, sent his nephew
Alvarez de Mendana to sea with
his blessing in 1567 he very nearly
became responsible for the continent of
Australia becoming Spanish instead ot
British.
The thing might easily have happened
if Mendana hadn’t made some sort
of mistake and Francis Drake had
kept out of the Pacific. Pedro Sarmiento,
one of the leading spirits of South
America at - this time, had urged; the
Viceroy to equip the expedition and
accompanied it. himself, and there isn t
much doubt that if his advice had been
followed' it might have reached the
eastern coasts of Australia. But there was
a difference of opinion between him and
Hernando Gallego, the squadron navi-
gating officer, who insisted upon steering
a course that brought it to the Solomon
Islands at the beginning of 1658.
The Spaniards thought they had come
to the legendary southern continent
itself, but were not long in realising that
they hadn’t. Lopez Val, the historian of
Spanish exploration from Peru in the
South Seas, accounts for the curious
name Mendana gave the group. "The
discoverer of these islands named them
the Isles of Solomon, to the end that the
Spaniards, supposing them to be those
isles whence Solomon fetched gold
to adorn the temple at Jerusalem, might
be the more desirous to go and inhabit
the same.”
But Mendana found no gold or jewels
in the Solomons, which turned out to
be only a series of isolated tropical
islands inhabited by warlike savages who
had no welcome for the explorers save
in a culinary and cannibalistic sense.
The results of the voyage were of no
practical use to Spain and valuable only
to geographers. Nevertheless, this enthusi-
astic pioneer was immensely keen on
establishing a South Sea colonial empire
for his country, and it is almost in-
explicable why he-did not immediately
follow up the discoveries he had made.
Lopez Val says that the Spaniards were
scared of Drake, but as the latter did
not sail round the Horn until 1578 this
hardly holds water. Possibly Mendana
may not have been able to finance an-
other expedition, or the Viceroy may not
have been favorable. However, almost a
score of years after his first venture.
Mendana set out once more —this time
to found a settlement, for we are told
that there was “a goodly company of
married couples” distributed through the
squadron. He sailed from Callao with
four ships in April, 1595.
' For over three months the ships went
westward until they came to the Mar-
quesas, which Mendana named in honor
of the Viceroy of the day, the Marquis
de Mendoza. But he was hundreds of
miles out of his course to the Solomons
and was never able to find them again.
On and on they sailed “into blue
immensity,” the people weary and dis-
pirited, discontented and mutinous, until
they came, five months after leaving
Callao, to Graciosa Bay in Santa Cruz.
The night before they reached there one
of the ships the Santa Ysabel dis-
appeared, and was no more heard of.
When they landed mutiny broke out.
Mendana was a very , sick man, but he
quelled the outbreak and hanged the
ringleader. A few days later he died,
leaving his colony in a slate of hopeless
disorganisation and sickness to the care
of his widow.
Donna Mendana was a brave and
resolute woman. On her husband’s death
she assumed the title of “Governess,”
and induced the crews of the remaining
ships to continue to look for the
Solomons. But they were worn out, and
the quest seemed so hopeless that it was
decided to abandon it and try to reach
the Philippines. Another ship went miss-
ing, and after much hardship the sur-
vivors reached Manila at the beginning
of 1596. The indomitable widow vowed
that she would yet found Mendana’s
colony, but she had no chance to try
again. So the Isles of Solomon became
lost for over 200 years and white Aus-
tralians did not make a beginning as
Spaniards.
Added up his last sum in Melbourne,
Charles Henry Wickens, who was Com-
monwealth Statistician from 1922 to 1932,
hence one of the most-quoted authorities
during the depression. He was born near
Bendigo in 1872, and started calculating
for the Westralian Government in 1897.
He was shifted to Melbourne and the
Commonwealth statistical branch as a
reward for winning a prize of the London
Institute of Actuaries in 1906. He was
Australian rep. abroad at many Empire
conferences.
* * * *
Tom Tunnecliffe, Speaker of Victorian
Leg. Assembly, had an awkward experi-
ence the other day when he became un-
conscious while driving and piled his car
up against a lorry. The G.O.M. of Vic-
torian-Labor is tough, however, and he
was back in his place next day. A boot-
maker by trade, he entered Victorian poli-
tics as Labor member for Eaglehawk in
1903, and was various sorts of Minister
in successive Labor Cabinets. A prolific
Labor journalist, he is the author of
numerous publications with such stirring
titles as The Great Land Robbery and
Successful Socialism. He turned 70
recently.
!*1 * * *
Sydney Trades Hall was a little build-
ing in Dixorf-street when young George
Rfitter,- of the'Stonemasons’ Union, be-
came' secretary he died the other day
at 80,-.still working’ at a job which he
had held for all ; but 50 years. George,
who had represented his union in every-
thing before he got the long-lasting job,
was, of course, officially a stonemason
to! the end of the chapter. He worked
upon some of the biggest of Sydney’s
old buildings in his younger days.
■ * * *
St. John Philby has found that it is
easier to cross the southern deserts of
Arabia than to find a way into the House
of Commons. At the Hythe by-election
for the late Sir Philip Sassoon’s seat he
polled 576 votes and lost his deposit.
Philby, a bearded, brown, weatherbeaten
little man, was an Indian civil servant
seconded for duty in Iraq and Arabia.
He left the service, was the confidential
adviser of King Ibn Saud, and became
a Mussulman. He still has business in-
terests in Saudi Arabia. Philby has some
remarkable desert journeys to his credit,
including a traverse from Mecca to the
south coast of Arabia and back.


n
_v\ 'ill,
U
n*'
42 A
972
If It’s for Hard Work, It’s the “Stockman
Made with a double sole and genuine Scotch Zug Upper.
Leather-lined throughout with best quality Calf Skin.
Reinforced Elastic-sides and ankle strap.
PRICE 42/-
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe it’s a good Shoe.”
Write for a Catalogue.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED,
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . .._ £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND .. .. 4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL 4,739,012 10 0
Directors:
James Ashton (Chairman), Edward R. Knox, Owen E. Friend,
Sir Wm. Vicars, C.8.E., Orwell Phillips.
General Manager: C. Darvall.
HEAD OFFICE: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout:
New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and at Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Corriedales Overseas.
“Ghanam”: The experience of F. W.
Bulcock, Queensland’s Agricultural Min-
ister, who has been touring the world,
confirms the arguments against the ex-,
portation of Australian stud sheep of any
type.
In the Argentine, which has had a
number of sheep from Australian and
Maoriland Corriedale studs, he found the
breed making remarkable progress. In
a country with boundless lucerne and the
most modern ideas regarding farming and
breeding methods, this was bound to
happen. At the same time the Minister
came to the conclusion that, though the
S. American merino industry was not
extensive and the quality of S. Ameri-
ca’s wools did not compare with ours,
the merino business there was bound to
grow.
It is not possible for a wool industry
to grow without a stud industry also
growing. If S. Americans and S. Afri-
cans had been allowed to continue to
pick the eyes out of Commonwealth
studs they might now have been impos-
ing embargoes against us instead of our
imposing embargoes against them.
Quantity Without Quality.
“Mookau”: The annual market report
from Smithfield has much to say about
Australian and Dominion meat.
Last year Australian beef exports to
the U.K. increased by 5.3 p.c. to 58,732
tons. The Argentine sent a little less
than normally. However, according to
Smithfield:
Quantity without quality is not helpful
to the meat trade and constitutes a poor
advertisement for Empire produce.
At the same time, the Australian Meat
Board weighs in with the remark that
the raising of the quality of meat is one
of the main problems, facing the indus-
try:— ' •„ , ........... )
In the principal market, the U.K., each
class of our meat realises a lower price
than the same class from some other sup-
plying country. Thus, our beef produces
lower prices than the Argentine, our lamb
than N.Z., our pig meat than Danish.
This is hard fact—Australian chilled
hinds during 1938 on Smithfield averaged
5.19 d. per pound, Argentine hinds 6.25 d.
Our best mutton brought an average of
4.02 d. per pound; the best Maoriland
5.48 d., and Australian lamb was 7.05 d.
per pound against Maoriland’s 7.73 d.,
while Danish bacon sold at 995. per cwt.,
10s. per cwt. more than Australian.
While the best of our production is
equal to the best from other countries,
growers fail consistently even under
favorable conditions to live up to foreign
standards. The Argentine accepts British
standards in beef and buys every avail-
able British bull' so as to give the British
butcher what he needs.
Anthony Hordern tried to persuade
Australian cattlemen to buy decent bulls.
He imported the best and most expensive
sires, and he offered their progeny at
sacrifice prices. But even when he gave
up his stud a little while ago his whole
great herd of males and females was auc-
tioned for less than an Argentine buyer
had given for a single bull. Many stud
breeders complain that they cannot nearly
meet expenses. Turanville (N.S.W.),
which has been fed with British bulls
costing 3000 guineas and upwards, is the
latest stud to be broken up.
Meanwhile, as the English continue to
buy Shorthorn, Hereford and Angus beef
fed on improved grazing, matured young
and killed in standard runs of uniform
weight and type, various “authorities”
urge that we should turn over to the
zebu cross instead of demanding that we
should gradually shoot out scrub bulls
“Fetch the tarpot, Ma, in case of accidents .”
and keep up the general quality of export
beef herds by continual introductions of
pure blood.
The Australian society which looks
after British breed interests in the lamb
trade is appealing to stock agents to help
prevent the sale of unregistered rams,
and the Commonwealth Government has
been asked to pass, legislation to compel
the registration of all entires. The agents
are being asked to finance purchases only
of those rams which are registered in
flock books. But an army would be
needed to police the scheme, and even if it
succeeds it will not get over the fact that
tens of thousands of lambs of far from
ideal export type are bred from pure
British rams. What is needed again is
standardisation —to Downs types as far
as possible—and pasture, feeding and
handling improvement. Only 40 p.c. of
our export lambs are first-grade.
With pigs, the same applies. Denmark
has a standard pig which suits the mar-
ket. It concentrates on improving that
pig, instead of telling the market that
Tamworths or Berkshire crosses on some-
thing or another are preferable to the
pig the market is accustomed to.
Judging Beef.
“Hubback II”: One of the strongest
points in successful judging of fat cattle
is simplicity and consistency of method.
Move off to one side of the beast and
note squareness fore and aft —body
should be a deep rectangle. Move directly
in front, then directly behind, and note
squareness and deepness of flesh from
those angles. See that there is a firm
covering of flesh over the pin bones, using
fingers well spread. Move forward, meas-
ure the width of the loin and handle to
test thickness of flesh both over and under
the loin.
Test thickness and condition of skin
on ribs with fingers, and use palm to esti-
mate the depth of flesh on ribs. Examine
backbone, which should be “a tabletop
without sag anywhere,” and note width
of chine. Don’t trust to the eye to esti-
mate the conformation of the back.
Next, check the fullness of the neck
and the width of breast and chest. Step
backwards and handle the flank, which
should be thickly fleshed. Take a last
look at the twist and thigh development
for weight, and note purse, which, if full,
indicates plenty of fat inside the carcass.
In judging stud cattle, much the same
procedure applies. Walk the beast to
show style and carriage, and note leading
breeding-points fore and aft while the
animals are stationary and moving.
Usually in any class it should be pos-
sible to reduce numbers appreciably, per-
haps to the potential three or four prize-
winners, by means of detailed body hand-
ling.
Sand in Horses.
“H.A.L.”: A neighbor’s only grazing
for his horse team is sandy soil upon
which a 25in. rainfall and topdressing
grows a good pasture. His protection
against sanded horses is stiff yellow clay.
“I put it in a box for the horses to help
themselves,” he told me. “They swallow
a little clay every day ; it mixes with the
sand inside them, and carries it out of
their system.
“You only get sand trouble when
horses can’t get to a clay patch. They
know by instinct what to do when the
sand begins to trouble them. It was
seeing my horses eating the clay where
a strainer-post hole had been filled which
gave me the idea of putting it out for
them.”
As sanding causes such trouble with
horse teams in districts like the Mallee,
where the soil is all sand, the matter
seems worth further consideration.
N.S.W. Quality Wheat.
“A.A.D.”: The rust-immune Fedweb I,
a cross raised by Dr. W. L. Waterhouse
at Sydney University; has behaved well
in a series of milling and baking tests in
the N. S. Wales Agricultural Depart-
ment’s laboratory.
Derived from Farrer’s Federation and
Webster, an American rust-resistant
variety, it has been grown on a commer-
cial scale at Gunnedah in the last two
seasons, and has been extensively sown
in the north-west for the current crop.
Of medium-strong-flour class, it is nearly
equal to Gular, a premium wheat, for
quality, with the added advantage that
the grain fills better. Fedweb mills easily,


w
e
33
MMMHm
■Hi
n
■lll
H
m®
\l^
For the interior construction of its new Diesel Rail Cars, the
Tasmanian Government required a steel-strong, non-warping
material which could be moulded to any desired contour, finished
in any desired mariner, yet capable of withstanding hard wear,
knocks and bumps. The logical choice of the builders was Mason-
ite Tempered Presdwood . . . strongest member of the "family
of four Masonite Boards now manufactured in Australia for every
building requirement in which amazing durability must be com-
bined with adaptability, ease of working, modernity and beauty
of finish. Masonite —"the wonder boards of 1000 uses" are the
inexpensive and ideal solution to every problem of home con-
struction and home modernisation.
ŵ
Cane-ite, the cane fibre Insulating Board gives protection from cold heat
and noise—and decorates at the same time. Send tor full details.
PRESD WOOD TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE QUARTRBPARD DE-LUXE
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. (Building Materials
Sydney . . . Melbourne . . • Br.sbane ■ . ■ Adelaice ■ . . Perth
Division)
MA42-9.
jfie'fyxJleforL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
and compares with the best of the popu-
lar varieties in flour yield. The flour
ranks high in water absorption and bak-
ing quality. It is adaptable to a wide
range of climates.
Although a very late-maturing variety
requiring early planting, it has a higher
gluten content than Ford —which is un-
usual in a late-maturer. A Wagga sample
yielded 14.9 p.c. dry gluten. For the
miller and the baker N.S.W. has not pro-
duced a better wheat.
Control of Weeds.
“J. Want”: K. G. Cam, weeds officer
of the N. S. Wales Agricultural Depart-
merit, has produced a pamphlet, “Con-
trol of Weeds,” one of the best essays on
the subject yet printed in N. S. Wales.
Color plates make identification of
weeds easy.
The writer describes dozens of pests
which have reduced land values and de-
pleted grasses over most of N. S. Wales.
Many weeds, he says, are associated with
particular crops. Rotation is a definite
check on weed spread ; but the greatest
emphasis is laid on the fact that in recent
years lucerne has shown itself the enemy
of all weeds, and even in dry areas is
sufficiently vigorous to clean large areas
of hoary cress, skeleton weed, burrs and
thistles.
Lucerne has been a valuable saver
of land in the wheat areas, and even on
the well-watered and fertile coast lands
it is being used successfully in the war
against nut grass. Also, it has the ad-
vantage as a cover crop that even where
it does not eradicate the pests weeds have
little effect on its own growth.
Next to cover crops the modem mower
and the rotary hoe are powerful weapons,
and in some skeleton-weed areas stubble
burning is giving way to mowing im-
mediately after the wheat harvest.
Mowing and hoeing aim at seed pre-
vention, and this seems to be the final
method of protection against all weeds.
Subsidiary to these expedients, but indis-
pensable in dealing with waste growth
on an intensive scale, is spraying.
Carn deals with all these phases in
respect of all individual weeds which are
a nuisance. And, if for nothing else, his
booklet would be valuable in showing
disheartened farmers what has actually
been done on a large scale by landowners
who have tackled the weed problem seri-
ously.
Bunny’s Decline in N.S.W.
“Virus”: From the latest reports of
the N. S. Wales Stock Branch it looks
as if the day of the rabbit is over. No
fewer than 23 districts this season re-
ported that there had been no increase in
numbers —in some cases a decrease. It’s
chiefly due to careful digging-out and
fencing. Where the Sydney skin market
used to handle 100 tons a week, it now
gets only 50 tons.
Past experience has shown that, so soon
as bunnies cease to be a serious nuisance,
landowners and P.P. Boards slacken up ;
and there is soon a wave of breeding and
the work has to be done all over again.
It’s a pity—another few years of progress
and there would scarcely be a warren in
the State.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mookau”: Central Queensland is
suffering a plague of cattle-lice of both
long- and short-nosed varieties. These
turn up in winter and become a thorough
nuisance in spring. They cause cattle to
rub themselves against fences and timber
until they lose most of the hair on their
shoulders and rumps. Best treatment is
an arsenic and soda dip with a gallon
of crude cresyllic acid to every 400 gal-
lons of dipping fluid. For spraying, try
loz. of nicotine sulphate, 40 p.c. solution
to six gallons of water. Treatment should
be repeated at 14-day intervals till the
insects disappear.
“Ghanam”: Facial eczema in both
sheep and cattle has been attributed in
Maoriland to stock eating the first flush
of grass in warm weather following
drought and excessive heat. In seasons
likely to produce the disease stock should
be kept off grass until it is mature. This,
of course, involves supplementary feed-
ing and the building-up of hay and silage
reserves. Rye grass and clover lands are
most likely to develop a quick flush and
cause eczema. Paspalum, however, is a
safe grass, and cocksfoot and red clover
are fairly so.
“Ovis”: Flemington (N.S.W.) saw the
biggest sheep which have been offered
there for a decade when three pens which
averaged well over 1001 b. each, with some
individual sheep not much below 2001 b.,
were put up. They were evidence of
what Romney Marsh and Leicester blood
will do on good western fcountry when
allowed to live too long. Southdown
suckers a quarter their size were worth
almost as much in the market as the
monsters.
“Ghanam”: Aubrey Campbell, of
Springwood, Gravesend (N.S.W.), has put
up some remarkable wool records with
his Border Leicesters. Ewes gave a full
wool cut of up to 171 b. The wool, though
dusty and burry, averaged Bid. per
pound all in at Sydney sales, which is
pretty good going. ..
“Jumbuck”: S. Africa has bought 300
rams of British breeds in S. Australia
this season. The Union Government,
the latest purchaser, has bought 100
flock rams, comprising 40 Southdown,
40 Romney Marsh and 20 Border
Leicester.
“Ghanam”: Though there has been
no change in the wool-tops market 70 s
at 28d. —it has been strong, and the Lon-
don sales a few days ago showed a simi-
lar tendency. Types for uniforms—
medium coarse crossbreds —are still in
heavy demand, and rose by from 10 P-c-
-to 15 p.c. during the auction. Ordinary
merinos improved 5 p.c., and fines and
superfines from p.c. to 10 p.c.
“S.T.”: Last year the world’s wheat
crop totalled 4,555,000,000 bushels, but
it will be much less this year- official
estimates suggest a fall of about
75,000,000 bushels in the Southern Hemi-
sphere and 500,000,000 bushels in the
Northern. That will largely be the result
of acreage reduction in U.S.A. and
smaller yields per acre through weather
conditions in Europe. But there will be
a carryover equal to more than double
the deficiency.
“Porcine”:- While N. S. Wales coastal
bacon factories record steadily-decreasing
killings, inland manufacturers who draw
supplies from the south-western slopes
and Riverina are maintaining full output.
Farmers in those areas have taken ad-
vantage of cheap wheat to raise more
pigs. At current prices—equal to syd.
per pound dressed at the factory
baconers are returning well up to 3s. 6d.
a bushel for wheat.
“Gumblegubbin”: Free-growing
Mitchell grass was recently discovered in
the Lachlan Shire (N.S.W.) area. The
boosting of imported grasses has blinded
settlers in some districts to the virtues of
their own indigenous plants. Lack of
knowledge in these matters is the reason
for the low carrying capacity of numer-
ous areas, of runs fading out quickly in
bad spells. Drought-resisting, root-
binding plants are, too, the best way of
preventing erosion.
“Hortus”: Tests at the New England
experimental farm have shown the value
of clover in the rotation. Maize-spring
oats-autumn oats gave a maize yield of
40 bushels. After clover the following
maize crop yielded 54 bushels. In a two-
course rotation the corresponding in-
crease in maize yield following clover
was 57 per cent. Of course, it means
fewer marketable crops, but in 12 years
six crops of maize on one plot yielded
200 bushels. A similar plot, with clover
in the rotation, returned 210 bushels from
four maize crops.
“Ek Dum”: In Victoria 7700 farmers
have milking machines, and they are fast
being electrified. The other day, near
Mirboo South, 42 farms were connected
to the power mains in one bunch. The
same sort of expansion is going on in
parts of the N.S.W. North Coast, and
the electricity development schemes which
Queensland has in hand will further de-
plete the teat-twisters’ union. Electricity-
on the farm means electric stoves,
toasters, hair-curlers, radio and razors
and horse-clippers. If any black-and-
white artist who thinks he knows his
country sneers at that, let me tell him
I know a bloke who has fitted his cow-
ranch with every power facility—down
to an electric boot-polisher.
“Berry”: Molbec Wattle 11, 16-yeai-
old Guernsey cow, in the Bangalow
(N.S.W.) stud of C. Abernethy, recently
dropped her sixteenth calf since 1925.
Her sire was Anthony Hordern’s Milton
Raymond.
“Bundalinga”: H. Boyle, of Nimbin
(N.S.W.), has controlled paspalum and
bracken fern with improved pastures in
a four-acre paddock, which, five weeks
after sowing, was fit to graze. It pro-
vided grass for 37 cows an hour a. day
for five weeks, and increased milk yields.
After a crop of maize and Italian rye
grass had been taken from the paddock,
Boyle ploughed the land, disk-harrowed
it and applied Bcwt. of lime per acre.
Two months later 2cwt. of super, per
acre was applied, and the plot was sown
with 101 b. of N.Z. perennial rye grass,
41b. of Italian rye, 41b. of red clover,
21b. of white clover, lib. of sub. clover
and 31b. of cocksfoot per acre. Light
dressings of sulphate of ammonia after
grazing soon brought the pasture back.
The heavy sward choked out the pas-
palum and bracken, with which adjoining
land is covered.


e
DO WOMEN’S GLANCES
ADMIRE YOU ?
A S THEY PASS YOU in the street or op the beach?
“ Do people remark on what a splendid build you present?
Or are you one of those undersized, half-developed, shrinking
chaps whom people only look upon with ridicule? Take yourself
aside, and ask yourself that question!
I BUILD STRONG, HANDSOME
BODIES
Alfred j. briton,
Founder of Health and Physical Culture Magazine.
J. M. CHAPMAN
(K., S.A.).
This fellow was a
thin stripling three
months ago. Look
at him to-day.
Note those powerful
muscles.
J. ROSENBERG
(Vic.).
Now strong - man
wrestler and
weight - lifter, an-
other example of
the thousands that
ONLY course.
H. H. LEE (K., Q.).
When this pupil started -he
weighed only seven stone.
To-day he weighs thirteen
stone* and is as strong as a
lion.
m*
5k DAN NOONAN (S., N.S.W.).
|| Who has acquired a powerful
W muscular physique. When .he
started he, was a weakling. He
gained seven inches around the
chest.
w
J. P. GILES (M., Q.).
This hefty, muscular speci-
men breaks horseshoes
and tears packs of cards.
"he result of getting- the
amazing FREE book you
should get to-day!
C. W. J. I'KKECK
(G.j N.S.W.).
Look at those great
broad shoulders, that
deep chest; this chap
bends iron bars and lifts
marvellous weights.
THIS GREAT BOOK IS
FOR MEN ONLY!
Is the greatest book ever published on the subject.
Lrammed full of amazing photos, it will show you
he short-cut to great strength and development.
You dont want to remain in the ORDINARY class
now. Get this book and be a superman! For a
limited time you may get this wonder book free, if
you act quickly. Its message and its many illustra-
tions will amaze you. It contains matter of vital
intormation that you should know at once. Rip the
coupon out and post TO-DAY!
aiP THIS OUT AND MAIL NOW
I
ALFRED J. BRITON.
Dept. L, 107 Pitt St., Sydney.
Dear Sir,—Send me, FREE, and
under plain wrapper, your latest
book, The Secrets of Muscular
mw
Strength.”
| NAME
ADDRESS
pEOPLE call me the Musclemaker.
I make men’s bodies strong and
healthy. My list of over 30,000
wonderful successes includes doctors
and lawyers, bookkeepers and clerks,
grandfathers and grandsons, fat men
and skinny men, weaklings and
nervous wrecks. By a method of
scientific body-building I go all over
your body, strengthening your
internal organs, broadening your
shoulders, cutting off fat and gener-
ally turning you inside out until
you’re a healthy, handsome fighting
he-man any woman will be proud of.
| WILL add one whole inch of live,
flexible, steely muscle to each of
your arms, and two full inches of
rippling muscular strength across
your chest. Your legs will become
straight and strong, your head snap
back erect, and large lumps of red-
blooded muscle will begin to stand
out on your broadening shoulders.
What a hit you are going to make
with that girl of yours! How proud
and happy she will be!
IT TAKES JUST 95 DAYS
OUT I’m not through with you yet. I
don’t make men by halves. Give me
just 95 days, and then look yourself over.
Now you sure are somebody. The path-
way to happiness and success is easy I
People will ask to meet you. Successful
business men will realise that here is
another man to accept as one of their
own group. Your boss will treat you with
a new respect, and that girl of yours will
have that look of love and affection in
her eyes that in itself will more than
repay you.
I DO MORE THAN PROMISE
I GUARANTEE
YVyiTH a body like that, the thrill of
’ * living is as great as the thrill
you get when you fall in love. It’s
wonderful! Just check off on your
fingers what such a body gives you
pep, vitality, health, strength, love,
affection—everything a man desires.
What a picture you’ll be in a bathing
suit! What a sight in a gymnasium!
You 11 be a magnet for all women’s
eyes. That healthy, aggressive, erect
stride of the man who knows what he
wants, and is going to get it, just com-
mands attention.
Read This Positive
Proof!
CHEST INCREASED THREE
INCHES IN TWO WEEKS.
“In only a fortnight, my chest
has expanded three inches. I
think your system is marvellous.”
—D. LEAHY, M.J., W.A.
NOTHING BUT PRAISE
FOR IT!
“I would like to thank you for
the amount of good it has done
me. I have improved wonder-
fully since. I became acquainted
with your Excel ding system, and
have nothing but praise for it.”
—W. EDTON, Trans. Line, W.A.
SYSTEM EASY TO FOLLOW.
“1 must say I am delighted
with my measurements. There
is nothing that I can’t understand
about the system, as it is all very
plain and easy to follow.”
—D.J.K., IL, N.Z.
EAR SUPERIOR TO OTHER
SYSTEMS!
“I am convinced your system
is the pick of them all.”
—J. T. HALL, T., N.S.W.
GAINED SEVEN INCHES
ROUND THE CHEST.
“Before I started the course,
my chest, normal, was 27 inches,
but now it is 34 inches, and 30
expanded ; truly a marvellous dif-
ference.”—J. MILNER, C., Nor-
folk Island.
PUT ON FIVE INCHES ON
CHEST!
“I have put on five inches
around the chest and one inch
oil the upper aims. I am very
fit and well also, and thank you
for the interest taken in me.”
—F. WOOD, W.
COURSE MARVEUDOUS!
“I don’t think there is a more
pleased man in this State than
myself, and I am more than
proud of my body every time I
see its reflection in the mirror. I
can only say it is marvellous.”
—W. TIMBLETT, P., W.A.
GAINS ONE STONE!
“I am writing you these few
lines to congratulate you and your
wonderful system on the way it
has developed my body. My
weight has increased nearly a
stone, and my height nearly an
inch.”—G. SWAINSON, M. 'Est.,
N.S'.W.
GAINED 3 INCHES ON
CHEST.
“I have just completed two
months of Exeelding, and am glad
to say that I have already made
a marked development, both in
muscles and appetite. Since I
have started I have gained 3 inches
on the chest, and my thighs and
calves are each one inch bigger.”
—JOHN WOLF, T., South Africa.
ALFRED J. BRITON
Dept. L, 107 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
D. DAVIES (A., Tasmania).
Throughout the length and
breadth of Australia and
New Zealand are pupils
who have developed won-
derful physiques. Now it is
your chance!
4 %
p.v»
m
mm
SHKgSSSo
:
V. R. LUCAS
(N., N.S.W.).
Wh o acquired
a splendid
physique
through first
reading this
Free Book.
H. WILLIAMS
(B. TAS.).
Just look at
that chest.'
SEND FOR
YOUR
FREE
BOOK
NOW!
mw m mmm
mm
m
* **■>**#■ **»** # >«*.<**>***&* ***>«**{ « j#* *Y
******** *><*• «aa>v.-v ■'>'•.-.•» oc. vw
********* x* '**>^**Y.i**
tf****** toti^*****^*
r


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A'CORN SILK is applied.
. . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out. The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Dieectors— James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq. ;M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
Genehal Masaqeii— D. 8. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receiving
iffiees throughout Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa •
-■on through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
;n,s Bank gffe?s the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
More than
a toothpaste!
c -IN-ONE
ll DENTAL CREAM
A beauty treatment for teeth
A health treatment for gums
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
w
bank balance is allowed to be held by an old-
age pensioner? —39o6.
(1) No, not if you live in the cottage. (2)
and (3) No. (4) He can have up to £SO in
bank without the pension being affected. For
every £lO over £SO, a deduction of £1 per
annum is made from the maximum pension.
¥ ¥ * ¥ v
Population of principal towns in N.S.W. and
Vic. other than capital cities? —4052.
Figures as at the census of June 30, 1933,
are as follows: N. S. Wales —Newcastle 104,485,
Broken Hill 26,925, Goulburn 14,849, Cessnock
14,385, Lithgow 13,444, Lismore 11,762, Wagga
Wagga 11,631, Wollongong 11,403, Albury
10,543, Bathurst 10,413, Tamworth 9913, Orange
9634, Fairfield 8709, Dubbo 8344 and West
Maitland 8191; Vic. —Geelong 39,223, Ballarat
37,411, Bendigo 29,131, Warrnambool 8906,
Mildura 6617, Hamilton 5786, Shepparton
5698, Maryborough 5631, Wonthaggi 5593,
Horsham 5273, Castlemaine 5221.
¥ * i= *
(1) Has the echidna a pouch in which it in-
cubates its eggs ? (2) Does it suckle its young ?
(3) Does it hibernate? (4) What is its call?
(5) Any other particulars? —37B7.
(1) Yes, it develops a temporary pouch in
the breeding season. In this the egg is hatched
and the young carried for some time. (2) Yes.
(3) It is believed that it does so in the colder
regions. (4) It has no call. (5) Echidnas are
most at home in rough, rocky country, and
are mainly nocturnal in habit. Their food
consists of insects of various kinds, grubs and
worms, but chiefly ants, which it captures by
means of its long, flexible, sticky tongue. It
does not make a burrow but can quickly sink
a shaft even in hard ground.
¥ ¥ * *
A few details about the Australian whistling
moth (Haliastur sphenurus)? —4155.
The Australian whistling moth is Hecatesia
fenestrata. Haliastur sphenurus is the Austra-
lian whistling eagle. The male of the moth has
a strong chitinous projection of the costa of
the forewing, with a large, ribbed, hyaline sub-
costal area. When the moth first emerges,
the hyaline area is thickly covered with scales.
About sunset, when the moth appears, it pro-
duces its whistling sound while performing its
curious circling flight. The females are devoid
of the sound-producing apparatus. The larva
of the moth, which is a member of the family
Noctuidce (cutworms, etc.), feeds on the dodder
( Cassytha ).
* * * ¥
Area and population of Pitcairn Island?
Also, brief history of the place ? —4238.
Pitcairn Island is two square miles in area
and is situated in the Pacific Ocean, nearly
equidistant from Australia and America —25deg.
3min. south latitude, 130 deg. Bmin. east longi-
tude. It was discovered by Cartaret in 1767,
but remained uninhabited until 1790, when it
was occupied by the mutineers of the Bounty,
with some women from Otaheite. Nothing was
known of their existence until the island was
visited in 1808. No regular Government was
established, but assistance of various kinds was
given on the subsequent visits of English vessels.
In 1856, the population having become too
large for the island’s resources, the inhabi-
tants (192 in number) were at their own request
removed, with all their possessions, to Nor-
folk Island, but 40 of them soon returned. In
1879 these had increased to 90. Population
at June 30, 1936, was 209. It is a British
colony by settlement, and was brought within
the jurisdiction of the High Commissioner for
the Western Pacific in 1898.
* * * *
How to glaze photographic prints without
their adhering to the glass? —4l46.
Soak the prints in glazing solution, following
instructions accompanying same. The glass
should be thoroughly cleaned with methylated
spirits and then dried. If the print does not
peel off readily when perfectly dry slip a pen-
knife under the edge at one corner and, using
the corner as a handle, peel the print slowly
off the glass. Should it show signs of sticking
heat it in front of a fire for some time. If it
still sticks, the glass is not perfectly clean.
The solution may be purchased from leading
photographers, the cost being 2s.
¥ ¥ ¥ *
How are daphne shrubs struck, and when
should it be done? —4216.
Fill 6in. flowerpots with a mixture of sandy
loam, peat moss and coal breeze or small
screened coke and insert in each pot a short,
sturdy daphne lateral or pieces of wood which
have flowered. Water thoroughly, then place
the pots in a shallow box and cover with glass.
Lift the covering once a week only long enough
to water the pots. It will take at least three
months for the roots to form, and the shrubs
should not be planted until at least 12 months
old. When shifting the shrubs into the open
garden, break the pots and set crocks with
the soil.
¥ ¥ ¥ ¥
How can an area of clayey soil be made suit-
able for a flower and vegetable garden ? —4210.
Break up the land to a depth of at least
2ft. and leave it in a rough state for frosts to
purify it. After two weeks apply a heavy dress-
ing of lime; a week later (if the weather is fine)
dig and pulverise it, and then mix horse
manure, rotted leaves and clean river sand into
it. Another digging a fortnight later will make
it ready for use. For this type of soil the
gardens should be raised, with the edges sup-
ported by logs or concrete or brick borders.
What quick-growing climbing plant is most
suitable to cover a small building on a Tas-
manian beach ? Soil varies from sandy-loam
to sand. —4192.
The kudzu vine (Pueraria thunbergiana), com-
monly known as “Jack and the Beanstalk,”
is most suitable and a rapid grower. After
sowing the seed in September (6d. a packet at
florists), cover the soil to keep it warm; train
the young plants in the early stages on strings
or wire. It is a perennial, the foliage is large
and the blooms purple and pea-shaped. An-
other strong climber is Bignonia cherere, with
scarlet flowers in spring and summer; plants
are stocked by nurserymen at Is. 9d.
* * * *
During the American Civil War a British
vessel captured by the Federalists was recaptured
by the captain of the British ship and two
others and brought safely home to England.
Can you give particulars '/ —4283.
The Emily St. Pierre, a British merchantman,
sailing from Calcutta to New Brunswick, while
attempting to inquire whether a blockade
existed, was captured off Charleston bar by a
Federal ship of war on March 14, 1862. Her
captain (Capt. Wilson) and his cook and
steward were permitted to remain on board on
her voyage to Philadelphia. On March 21,
Wilson, with his two associates, succeeded by
stratagem and courage in recovering the com-
mand of the vessel, overcoming two U.S. officers
and 13 sailors, and brought her into Liverpool.
The owners of the ship gave Wilson 2000
guineas, and Liverpool merchants presented
him with a testimonial of their admiration of
his gallantry. The British Government refused
to restore the vessel when claimed by the
Americans.
* * *
Method of treating linen so as to prepare
it for painting with water-colors? —4136.
Stretch the linen on a board or table with
drawing-pins, and paint on a sizing of starch
and water; the solution is made of one-fourth
starch to three-fourths water and mixed
smoothly. Allow to dry before using the linen
for painting. Or paint with a weak solution
of gum arabic and water, one teaspoon gum
to one breakfastcup of water. Try these
methods before starting a piece of work, as
these fine sizes may vary on linens of differing
textures and finishes.
* * * *
Number of broadcast listeners' licenses in
force in each of the Australian States and
territories at June 30, 1938? —4257.
N. S. Wales, 402,315; Vic., 315,406; Queens-
land, 117,487; South Aust., 111,622; West
Aust., 71,324; Tasmania, 36,013; Northern
Territory, 165;. Aust. Capital Territory, 1663 ;
Papua and New Guinea, 9. Total, 1,056,004.
* * * *
Native population in each of the administra-
tive districts of the Mandated Territory of New
Guinea ? Is the population increasing or
decreasing ? —4265.
Asa large portion of the Territory is not
under Government influence, it is not possible
to obtain reliable figures in regard to the
number of the natives. The number enumerated
as at June 30, 1937, was as follows: Kieta
44,934, Madang 72,814, Manus 14,917, Morobe
140.904, New Britain 97,605, New Ireland
41,861, Sepik 124,310; total 542,394. The
total population, however, is estimated roughly
at about 666,000. Whether the number is in-
creasing or decreasing cannot be ascertained.
* * * Si:
/ have an old painting by an artist named
George Adolphus Storey. Can you tell me
something about him ? —4269.
He was born in London in 1834 and was
partly educated in Paris, but in 1850 returned
to England and commenced studying in London
at J. M. Leigh’s school, subsequently entering
the Royal Academy schools. His first picture
was hung in 1852. He was in early life a
follower of the Pre-Raphaelite school, but
gradually changed his style, becoming well
known both as a subject painter and for his
excellent portraits. Elected A.R.A. in 1876
and R.A. in 1914, he became a teacher of
perspective at the Royal Academy in 1900.
Among his best-known pictures are “The Old
Soldier” (1869), “Christmas Visitors” (1874),
“Mischief” (1897) and “The Love Letter”
(1901). Storey published several books, the
most important being Meissonier (1886) and
Theory and Practice of Perspective (1910). He
died at Hampstead in 1919.
(1) Number of Commonwealth and State
employees in Australia ? (2) Cost of Parlia-
mentary government, Commonwealth and
States ? —4274.
(i) Commonwealth, 72,804; N. S. Wales,
114,253; Victoria, 80,274; Queensland, 35,750;
South Aust., 21,390; West Aust., 24,841;
Tasmania, 6788. Figures are as at June 30,
1937. (2) Commonwealth, £553,537; N.S.W.,
£198,961; Victoria, £139,162; Queensland,
£108,808; South Aust., £86,756; West Aust.,
£102,817; Tasmania, £49,709. Figures are as
at June 30, 1937, and they give only direct
costs. Indirect costs are vast.
# * * *
(1) What were-the results of the international
matches of the first tour of the All Blacks
( M.L .) R.U. team in England in 1905-06, and
the second Springbok (S. African ) team in
England in 1912-13, and where played? (2)
Who were the captains of the teams? —4202.
All Blacks defeated Scotland at Edinburgh
(Nov. 18) by 12-7; Ireland at Dublin (Nov. 25),
15-0; England at Crystal Palace (Dec. 2),
15- France at Paris (Jan. 1), 38-8; lost to
Wales at Cardiff (Dec. 16), 3-0. Springboks
defeated Scotland at Edinburgh (Nov. 23),
16- Ireland at Dublin (Nov. 30), 38-0; Wales
at Cardiff (Dec. 14), 3-0; England at Twicken-
ham (Jan. 4), 9-3; France at Paris (Jan. 11),
38-5. (2) D. Gallaher (Auckland) captained
the All Blacks; W. A. Millar led the Spring-
boks.
* * * *
Did Martin Denny fight four draws
with Young Griffo ? If so, where did the con-
tests take place? —4277.
Griffo fought five draws with Joe Pluto —
over eight, six, 23, 13 and 70 rounds respec-
tively, but he met Martin Denny only twice.
Both contests took place in Sydney, and were
declared draws—the first over 20 rounds in
1889, and the second over 25 rounds in 1892.
Does Anybody Know?
J.T.J.: A big scheme for conveying water
from the Murray to Whyalla (S.A.) some hun-
dreds of miles has been worked out by the
S.A. Engineer-in-Chief and a report presented
to the S.A. Public Works Standing Committee.
It was based on a detailed survey and has
been publicly discussed in S.A. for the past
few months. Full reports of the discussions
and the scheme have appeared in the Adelaide
“Advertiser” during the last four months
C.M.N.: Before being used the inside of the
forms should be greased with either soft soap,
linseed oil or lard mixed with kerosene or
crude oil —petroleum—to prevent particles of
concrete from sticking to the forms when re-
moved, and giving the surface of the concrete
an unnecessarily rough face S.S.: The
orange glory creeper ( Thunbergia gibsonu)
is a fast-growing evergreen twiner of five to
six feet. It requires a well-drained situation
open to the full rays of the sun. It makes a
fine subject for trailing on banks or rockeries.
C.N.J.: W. H. Auden was born in 1907,
and was educated at Gresham School and
Oxford. C. W. lsherwood was born in 1904,
and was educated at Repton School and Cam-
bridge T.S.: According to the census ot
June 16, 1933, there were in Germany
40,865,258 Protestants (62.7 p.c. of the total
population), 21,171,991 Catholics (32.5 p.c.),
34,927 other Christians (0.1 p.c.), 499,682 Jews
(0.7 p.c.) and 2,646,603 adherents of other
religions (4 p.c.) H.D.: The Swedish
krona, of 100 ore, is of the value of Is. Iyd.,
or about 18 kronor 16 ore to the pound sterling.
....V.M.: George Robey made his first
appearance on the professional stage at the old
Aquarium Theatre, London, in 1891, at the
age of 22. He first appeared on the music-
hall stage proper at the Oxford, London, on
June 6, 1891... .R.W.: The President of the
United States receives a salary of 75,000 dollars
per year, plus 25,000 dollars for travelling ex-
penses and official entertainment R.G.G.:
No information indicating that wheat was
burned in the U.S.A. in order to maintain a
certain wheat price. Endeavors have been made
to prevent overproduction of certain crops,
but so far as can be traced the burning <?f
wheat was not resorted- t0....E.C.: A solid
substance would affect visibility and be quite
useless. Wiping the glass with a cloth dampened
with glycerine and lightly polishing afterwards
usually gives good results. A trade formula is
as follows: Mix olein-potash soap with about
3 p.c. of glycerine and a little oil of turpentine,
apply lightly with a cloth and wipe over to
polish. Dimming of glasses is unavoidable at
certain temperatures, and most remedies are
more trouble than benefit R.G.H.: In the
triangular series of Tests at Manchester (Eng.)
on May 27 and 28, 1912, T. J. Matthews
(Victoria) got the hat-trick in each innings for
Australia v. S. Africa; the batsmen were Beau-
mont, Pegler and Ward in the first innings, and
Taylor, Schwarz and Ward in the second
F.J.: Roses grafted on briars by nurserymen
give the best results; they can be safely planted
up to the end of August C.0.W.: (1) No
protection would be given by this procedure.
(2) Provisional applications may be lodged in
Australia and England, but not U.S.A. or
Canada. (3) No, only in British Empire
countries other than Canada. Approximate
cost through patent attorneys averages six or
seven guineas per country. (4) Yes, within 12
months of filing the first application. (5) No,
an investigation as to novelty is not made on
provisional applications... .K. 8.: Full particu-
lars of the course are obtainable from the
Chief Librarian, Public Library of N. S. Wales,
Bent and Macquarie-streets, Sydney... .E.V.H.:
It was Benjamin Franklin who said, in a
letter to Quincey, dated September 11, 1773,
“There never was a good war or a bad peace.’
B.L.: The line is from George Moore’s
essay “Mummer-worship,” and the correct ver-
sion is “Acting is therefore the lowest of the
arts, if it is an art at all” T.T.: Tally-
garoopna is a Vic. abo. place-name meaning
“a large tree” J.S.: Write any of the fol-
lowing: Macdonald, Hamilton and Cos., 247
George-street; Gilchrist, Watt and Sanderson,
5 O’Connell-street; Dalgety and Cos., corner
O'Connell and Bent streets; Gibbs, Bright and
Cos , 37 Pitt-street; Aberdeen and Common-
wealth Line, 17 O’Connell-street; Orient S.N.
Cos., 9 O’Connell-street-—all Sydney A.N.:
Peter Airey wrote under the pen-name of
“P. Luftig” and Will Lawson under “Quilp N.”
R.H.A.: (1) S. Hoffnung and Cos. was
sole concessionaire for the Gramophone Cos.
in the Commonwealth up to 1933. (2) Yes,
for gramophone goods in N. S. Wales, S.A.
and Q’land. The Gramophone Cos., of Home-
bush, Sydney distributes all radio and gramo-
phone goods for other States through approved
firms. (3) N 0... .R.F.O’N.: “Dominion’
(Wellington), “Herald” (Auckland), “Press'
(Christchurch), “Otago Daily Times” (Dunedin)
—all M.L.; “Northern Standard” (Darwin)....
W.G.: The collision between the Greycliffe
and Tahiti occurred in Sydney Harbor on
November 3, 1927, and the Tahiti was lost be-
tween Wellington and Raratonga on August 17,
1930 K.R.: Detailed accounts of Hie
mutiny in the Lady Shore (not Lady Jdfie
Shore) are to be found in the Historical
Records of N. S. Wales, Vol. 3, which should
be available to you at the Vic. Public Library,
Melbourne....L.D.: Apply to the Principal
Librarian, Public Library of N.S.W., Sydney,
for particulars of the only course for the train-
ing of librarians in Australia that is in the
Library School at the Public Library of N.S.W.
There are over 6000 books <m library work.
The point is what kind of library work and
what field G.H.: Modern Roses in Aus-
tralia, by B. V. Rossi (price 65.) L.A.:
Cannot give a valuation of the two volumes
of Cook’s Voyages without seeing the particu-
lar copies. There were many editions published
in the nineteenth century G.C.: Hugos
L’lnglese in Tre Mesi (price 55.) is at present
out of stock, but Angus and Robertson have
supplies arriving in Sydney in September.. . .
R W : Education in the U.S.A. is under the
control of the State and local governments.
The school-leaving age is not uniform, but
usually is 14.


e
No. 163
TUMBA
"PRIDE
OF THE
ROAD"
£lO/15/-
(MOUNTED)
A High-grade
Saddle with
narrowest pos-
sible grip and com-
- , fortable non-chafing
seat. First-class materials used
throughout. N.S.W. Rail on Saddles
Paid for Cash with Order.
Write for New Saddlery Catalog.
WALTHER u STEVENSON!
Z3S CIORCE ST. SYDHEY
ajii
Aid
Hunting is symbolic of England’s finest traditions. Traditional
too is the standard set by the Canadian Australasian Line
on its Trans-Pacific service.
Regular monthly sailings between Australia and Canada, with calls
en route at New Zealand, Fiji and Hawaii.
A!1 information from:
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD,
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George
Street,
Sydney.
Canadian QiidialoAian
Jme
39 William
Street,
Melbourne.
“lift going up madam"
m
~j\
m
m
mam
o
* 77?is illustration was drawn in the Victoria Entrance Hall
Uniformed, trained lift attendants and silent
safe lifts that take you to your home-like comfortable
room, are symbols of the luxuries and services that are
yours at the Victoria.
The special guest service is always at your elbow ... to
help you select a theatre; to advise you about sales and
shopping; to inform you about trains and trams and to
tell you all that is on in Melbourne.
In Melbourne, there is no comfort and service equal to the
Victoria’s. So, in Melbourne, STAY at the Victoria.
UICTORM PALACE
215 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
ROOM ONLY, DAILY
TARIFFS
Doubles, 8'- to 16/-
Singles, 4'- to ?l6
Sidney D. Horne, Manager
(Next Town Hall)
Write l for illustrated Booklet
“ MELBOURNE HOLIDAY ”
to Room 136, Victoria Palace.
Send 2d. in stamps to cover postage.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally.
J.E.W.: The ending outs it....R.C.: Nearly
had something for “The Empty Truck”....
Z.V.W.: No, no, n 0... .G.E.M.: Neither of
those W.T.S.: Not up... .W.J.H.: Came
close... .M.V.: Too slight... .L.M.: Descrip-
tions good, plot hopeless J.M.W.: Worth
trying elsewhere H.A.L.: Doesn’t liven up.
. ...T.E.P.: And that’s a dull question....
H.S.: Don’t like the young lady whose “lips
curled back from her teeth tigerishly”....
W.J.H.: Not for u5....8.5.: First story too
slight. Second better, but as yet only a col-
lection, of notes H.S.H. (England): Thanks.
But it’s not much use “messing about with
lines”.... D.O’C.: Cheer up... .H.K.W.: If
the lady is “rather sensitive” you’d better not
show her that p0em....A.P.: Just sonnets....
C.H.: Your pines are poor conversationalists.
R.E.R.: Object to “rude” winds....
. ...D.M.F.: “Tramping” doesn’t get there.
G.G.D.: There’s something vaguely familiar
about that title, “Sunrise”... .F.MacD.:
“Drama” lacks it E.W.: Flimsy R.C.F.:
The moo-cow’s not going to lift her head and
bellow “00-00-oo” in these pages... .J.H.:
Laborious... .P.F.: Longwinded... .G.8.D.:
Sad about the cove who “trod roughshod over
the tender blooms of romance”... .V.T.L.:
Duds, all of ’em.... J.T.8.: You should have
begun with “once upon a time” L.R.C.:
“Forgive” forgiven, but only this once....
N.8.R.: You’re making a lot of trouble about
something that isn’t worth it K.T.N.: Not
up, but come again B.L’M.: You’re a long
way off our beat A.B.McD.: Doesn’t get
there, but we wouldn’t mind inspecting some
more... .P.T.C.: No desire to associate with
“Fleas I Have Known” J.P.: Australian
interest, please F.T.E.: “Let’s Play Bur-
glars.” No! ... .L.F.8.: You’re still in the
wrong paddock. .. .N.R.S.: Idea passable, hand-
ling dreadful N.C.L.: You’d do better if
you paid more attention to dialogue L.R.R.:
It's a mighty “long arm of coincidence”....
L.J.M.: That con. man has been unemployed
for years 8.5. C.: No 8.E.: The yarns
are old stuff, but the sketch might get through
after severe cutting S.T.C.: Try a medical
or scientific journal S.M.D.: “Earthquake”
just a tremor... .G.L.C.: O. Henry beat you
to it... .L.R.C.: Your sleuth needs a few
elementary lessons in crime detection 8.1. N.:
Sentimentalism C.K.E.: Moved by “The
Trials of a Flat-hunter”... .C.N.L.: You’re
wasting a good deal of time, energy and ink.
C.B.C.: That’s about the sixth time you ve
altered it, and now it’s worse than the original.
....N.G.D.: Whatever point you are trying
to make would be much clearer if you wrote
legibly and on one side of the paper 0n1y.... •
T.C.D.: Not here, but you’re almost certain
to place it elsewhere... .G.N.G.: Twenty-five
pages of horrible melancholy... .N.G., L.T.C.,
D.P.L.: Missed.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.M.: You might earn a crust one of these
days as a tattoo artist... .F.C.: That weary
deadbeat has been here countless times, and is
always turned away.... W.A.: Dull, and heavy
gag proved too big a handicap for the drawing
to carry B.B.: Crooked blacktracker with
clubfeet is finding his way home E.P.P.:
An old-timer... .M.K.: Jokes too feeble....
R.L.D.: So far as we are concerned, Susan
can remain locked in the bathroom... .C.P.:
Gag is about as humorous as a prescription
foi baldness....M.F.: You have a steady hand
and a sense of layout, but little idea of humor.
M.N.: Picture of bull —we presumed it was
a bull—in china shop not the class of drawing
we want 0.H.: Flapper too streamlined
even for this age, while the gag belongs to
a past generation... .W.J.: Seeing that it is
your first offence we shall let you off with a
caution P.A.: Sending back old lady who
thought lifebelt was a new kind of brassiere.
G.B. : The camouflaged horse was a non-
starter T.N.: A temperance journal might
swap you a couple of pounds of tea for that
effort J.S.M.: Not in the market for ex-
change of riddles between Grandpa and little
Tommy E.S.: You’ll find it a long, long trail
to a “corner in The Bulletin” T.R.M.:
Comical enough, but more suited for the Christ-
mas number of an English magazine
A.E.8.: Attempt to make drawing composed
entirely of swastikas was heroic but unsuccess-
ful J.S.A.: Nothing to crow about....
1.F.M.: The subject was too big for you to
handle C. 8.: Sorry, but we’ll have to go
to print without caricature of your favorite bar-
man S.F.: A schoolboy howler dreadfully
illustrated.
FROM CHINA TO PERU
“Bo”: Madame Two-Blues, “Pertinax”
and that great (unnamed) host of “autho-
rities”who tear around so furiously in
diplomatic circles have played ducks
and drakes with the allegiance of various
Spanish generals. The latest is Quilpo
de Llano, Governor of Andalusia. A
few months back he was Madame and
co.’s special bugbear ; in the cables that
scorched the Great Dailies he was so pug-
naciously pro-totalitarian that, but for
a restraining hand, he would have
dragged Britain, France and Russia on
single-handed. Now he has been
“arrested for trying to shear the pow'er
of the pro-Axis Senor Suner, Franco’s
brother-in-law.” He is also known to
“strongly favor friendship with the de-
mocracies.” It only needs a sneaking
suspicion that he is in the pay of Stalin,
and “authorities” will vigorously take up
his cause.
* ... „.
“Old Kent”: Re London’s pre-motor
traffic roundabout (B. 12/7/’39), there
were traffic signals as far back as 1868.
One was in Westminster, and showed a
green light in ordinary circumstances
and a red one when a member of Par-
liament was crossing on his way to the
House, or when any other important
occasion rendered a traffic halt necessary.
The thing had semaphore arms which
carried the colored lights into position,
The lighting was done by gas. A
gas escape coming in contact with the
lantern on this “handsome iron pillar”
nearly blew the operating police constable
to bits, so the apparatus was removed,
and London had to wait for 60 years for
the thing to come back.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Judging by the succession
of flops in the Australian theatre lately,
entrepreneurs are at their wit s end to
find suitable dramatic material or per-
haps they dont recognise it when they
see it. Shaw wa9 told that his first plays
were too intellectual for the theatregoing
nnhlir At he ic the nlowprf un.l
public. At 84 he is the most-played and
best-paid dramatist living, and possibly
the most affluent in all history. Passing
through India on one occasion, Gregan
i , r° i,
McMahon, who has first refusal of all
new Shaw plays in Melbourne, found
“You Never Can Tell” being played up
a hack lano tn a native nnHienee In Win
a back lane to a native audience in Hin-
dustam. Shaw charges an invariable
15 p.c. on gross takings, and does not
let off the least little amateur company
in the m net remnio villas
, . ® ipost remote village. He is prob-
ably being played at the present moment
in a couple of hundred places in a score
ol different languages, so the story that
he draws £20,000 a week in royalties may
° e true -
“D. Fish”: Following the draining of
the Pontine Marshes and the reclamation
of the deserts of Libya, Mussolini’s latest
work, as reported in an exclusive mes-
sage from Rome to the “5.M.H.,” means
a real addition to the Italian Empire.
Headed “More Farms for Sicily,” it states
that II Duce has decided to cut up imme-
diately big feudal estates in Sicily cover-
ing 1,250,000,000 acres. That works out
at 1,953,125 sq. miles, and the area of
Sicily used to be 9934. The increase
won’t leave any room for the Mediter-
ranean.
Jje sj: * $
From a pamphlet in which the Dean
of Canterbury appeals to the mind and
heart of Britain to “act now” and “intro-
duce socialism”:
Russia works her lands, mines and fac-
tories to give maximum safety and well-
being to all. Material benefits show a
steep up-grade. Moral benefits steeper still.
This should be no cause for wonder, for
the Russian principle at least is Christian
and civilised, and the mode scientific.
There’s no mode of dealing with hunger
and unemployment (the Dean’s themes)
more “scientific” than a few good purges ;
but whether they are Christian and civil-
ised is another matter.
* * * *
Washington is denouncing Uncle Sam's
1911 commercial treaty with Japan. Six
months’ notice was necessary, and,
although addressed to Tokio, it is meant
also for Congress, which, in respect of the
Neutrality Act amendments, took control
of foreign policy out of the President’s
hands. But the Republicans are sure to
say that Roosevelt is seeking another
foreign distraction from the domestic
difficulties in which his New Deal has
landed the nation.
* * * *
“El V.” on a resignation:
The resignation of C. G. Grey from the
editorship of the British “Aeroplane,” which
he founded in 1911, will make a sensation in
flying circles. One of the earliest of aviation
journalists, he was the “Autocar’s” flying man
as far back as 1908. He is an engineer, and he
writes with a pungency and independence unex-
celled in any class of English journalism.
Cables describe him as “pro-Nazi.” He is not
“pro”-anything, except pro-British; but he
holds the totalitarian Powers in respect because
of their efficiency, and Russia in great disre-
spect. His sources of information are vast —
he often beats the Australian daily press with
news of aerial happenings in Australia, and
since 1916 he has compiled the monumental
annual World's Aircraft. When Grey goes
abroad in Europe he is treated like an ambassa-
dor. Only a few weeks ago he described to
an Australian friend how Mussolini in person
flew him in a multi-engined Italian bomber.
* * * *
“Tp”; j r j se tQ p ro t est that the folk-
dance of my native county, “near Eng-
land,” isn’t the “Floral Dance” but is the
“Furry Dance.” The theory that it goes
back to the Roman feast of “Floralia” is
an insult to us Cousin Jacks, who, on the
old Romans trying to conquer us, sum-
marily scatterned un all abrooard, and
never adopted a single one of they Eye-
talian customs. “Furry” comes from
Middle-English “Ferier.” So we have the
word “Fair” (Furry).
* * * *
An Australian dines with royal dukes:
Real Australian gumleaves were mounted on
the menu-cards at the banquet given in honor
of the Duke of Kent by the Australian Club
at the Dorchester Hotel. Frosts had done
much mischief with the eucalyptus-trees in
England, but Lord Anglesey came to the rescue.
He is a keen horticulturist, and has many
species of eucalypt on his Welsh estate Plas
Newydd. Plas Newydd is one of the finest
estates in Wales, and it is in the parish of
(now hold your breath) Llanfairpwllgwyngvll-
gogerychwypndrobwllllantisiliogogogoch, called
for short Llanfair P.G. It means “The church
of St. Mary near the hollow of the white
hazel wood and near the swift red Tysilio whirl-
pool.” Stanley Bruce told the Duke of Kent
all over again how pleased Australia would be
to have him and his wife and family. Police
Chief Sir Philip Game, Viscount Stonehaven
and Sir Archibald Weigall, the usual red
carnation in buttonhole, were some who “hear-
heared.” At eleven the band played, not
“Show Me the Way to Go Home,” but softly,
tenderly, “Good Night, Sweetheart, Wrap Your
Arms Around me.” The two royal brothers
Gloucester and Kent were among those who
smiled.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
A Maorilander gets the prize this week for a very human little essay on a
tragic consequence of the war, too-often seen, but never recorded in statistics.
A Burnt-out Soldier
To-day I saw a man rushed off to the
hospital in a state of complete physical
collapse. He was one of the thousands
of burnt-out soldiers that are cracking
up almost every day. He spent four
years at the Western Front; four years
that took more out of his system than
twenty years of peace could have done.
Though supposedly fit when dis-
charged from the army, now, in his late
forties, his heart and lungs have long
since been certified “cronk.” His
physical condition is inferior to that of
the average man of 65. But unlike the
latter, who can draw the old-age pension
and take it easy, he has been obliged to
work to keep his wife and young family.
Prematurely aged, he has had to main-
tain a pace set by younger workers,
as have most of his kind, with the in-
evitable disastrous results. Now, if he
is fortunate, he will get a war pension.
But what compensation can it be now?
Almost every “civilised” country has
hospitals, sanatoria and asylums full
of similar wrecks that once were the
pick of its manhood. And this is
only one instance of the countless
horrors of war. Yet, in spite of them
all, war-clouds are, seemingly, looming
over the horizon . again. Hasn't
humanity learnt anything in the past 20
years? Is this lunacy going to be re-
peated all over again? If so, why? In
God’s name, why?— Post-war Youth
(M.L.).
“Post-war Youth” is J. R. Cole, 29
Kingswood-street, Palmerston North,
Maoriland. He wins the £3 35., plus space
rates.
Civility
Sometimes I hardly wonder that the
thoughts of some men turn towards
Communism or something of the kind.
I met one of the kind we like to term
typically Australian —tall, spare, quiet
spoken, unassuming ; Diggers say he was
a dinkum soldier. He keeps off the
rations with a few head of poultry while
he seeks a job.
I sent him to a man who, I thought,
might possibly put something in his way.
He returned quite pleased. No, there
was nothing doing at present, “but it
was good to be spoken to as a man.”
There was no bitterness in his tone ; a
little weariness perhaps. Maybe it is
well that there is nothing aggressive
about him ; otherwise some of those ill-
bred fellows who look upon a job-
hunter as so much dirt might get a rude
shock.
I know that industry cannot employ
every man that asks, but I do suggest
that the least one might expect for fel-
low-Australians trying to earn a crust
is civility.
Humaneness apart, it seems to me that
in these troublous times no enlightened
democracy can afford to drive home the
steel of bitterness into the souls of fel-
low-countrymen. There’s propaganda
enough to upset the existing order
without its being added to in this manner.
And captains of industry and commerce
might well check up on the type of man
to whom they delegate authority.— Jae
(S.A.).
Absorbing the Alien
One of the most recurring complaints
against immigrants from Southern
Europe is that they are difficult to as-
similate. They are charged with herd-
ing together in certain defined districts
of Australia ; with refusal to adopt our
customs; with, in short, remaining
aliens in their new country.
Well, I’d like to know what Aus-
tralians are doing to encourage assimi-
lation ! How many of us do not regard
these people contemptuously as
“dagoes”? How many of us invite
them to join our social life? Show me
an Australian who has invited a stranger
from Southern Europe into his home on
the same terms as he would invite an
Australian cobber? Is there an Aus-
tralian lad game to brave the ridicule of
his crowd and love and marry a girl
from Southern European parents?
Could he be sure of retaining his Aus-
tralian friends if he did so?
None of us try to help them. It they
have land our common growl is that
they are doing good Australians out ot
it. If they are in business we refer
slightingly to their “living on the smell
of an oil rag.” The local larrikin re-
gards their restaurants as somewhere to
go when he is half-drunk and make a
row that he wouldn’t be game to make
in an Aussie’s shop. What is our reac-
tion to the sight of a well-dressed ‘ dago
family in a “flash” car?
I’m far from one to support the idea
of immigration from Southern Europe,
but I do say that we are as guilty as
they in this matter of racial assimilation.
You can’t expect a man to become an
Australian while you continue to treat
him as an alien. If their continued
arrival in this country is to create a
serious problem in the future, as many
believe, then the fault is partly ours.
There will be no problem if we learn to
suppress this supercilious racial atti-
tude.
Southern Europeans in this country
are a race apart because the average
Australian himself draws the line of de-
marcation. — Ha-ha Pigeon (N.S.W.).
Alien Colonies in Cities
Immigration of Southern European
races into Australia threatens to present
a very serious problem. These migrants,
presumably with the necessary entrance
money, are landing here with commu-
nistic ideals and congregating with
fellow-countrymen in one quarter of a
city.
One sets up as a fruiterer, another as
a butcher, a third as a fish merchant,
and more as bakers, drapers, store-
men. Thus each deals off the other, as
do all their countrymen, making their
businesses as safe as the Bank of Eng-
land. Then come foreign gardeners, sup-
plying the shops with fruit and vege-
tables, then manufacturers of groceries,
hardware and clothing materials —each
only with a backyard factory but
all employing their own race at wages
on which no Australian could live.
All their existence depends upon is
supplying their countrymen’s shops, so
that further countrymen can buy them,
keeping the money in their own
community. If outsiders choose to
buy from them well and good, but they
are by no means dependent on outside
money.
These communities are in every city, of
no great consequence as yet, but thriv-
ing all the while. As more immigrants
arrive, so the colonies grow larger. What
will be the outcome of this? No Aus-
tralian manufacturer or businessman
could hope to compete against them as
regards wages and costs. No Australian
could live as cheaply as they do, and no
Australian would reside in the hovels in
which some of them live.
No doubt their social system is admir-
able, but not to the welfare of this coun-
try. Factory laws and arbitration rulings
mean but little to them. Action is needed
before the problem grows into a very
serious menace. — Robert Ewing (S.A.).
Australians Need Not Apply
Recently a Melbourne daily completed
publication of a lengthy series of short
stories, fully 98 p.c. the work of over-
seas authors. Surely a melancholy reflec-
tion, not on our fiction-writers, but on
a journal habitually posing as a cham-
pion of things Australian.
Nor, unhappily, is this paper isolated
in its policy of neglecting craftsmen in
the community from which it derives its
wealth in favor of cheap syndicated
work. Dailies and periodicals are almost
unanimous in thus putting the boot into
the scribe guilty of being Australian-
born. The Bulletin is traditionally not-
able among the exceptions.
If, on the grounds of sound commer-
cial practice and a healthy anxiety to
avert artistic insularity, a reasonable pro-
portion of imported fiction were used
say even 50 p.c. —few would complain.
The almost total exclusion of the native
practitioner by these prosperous publish-
ing houses, however, renders suspect the
sincerity of their vaunted Australianism.
—A. W. S. (Vic.).
The Pioneer
People revere the pioneer and point to
him as an example for the younger gen-
erations. The idea is all bunk ; the days
of pioneering are past, and we must
admit it.
Pioneers endured hardships enough,
but they were not insurmountable.
Against them they had the pick of the
land, no taxation to speak of and none
of the restrictions that now hinder the
landowner. The man who couldn’t make
a do then was an out-and-out mug.
Imagine Kidman rising to be a cattle
king under present conditions! —P. G. K.
(Q.).
A Soldier Prophet
The other day I took up Donald Han-
key’s A Student in Anns to glance
through it again, and came at once on
this striking passage: —•
I should not be surprised if, when we
are old, we see a repetition of this war.
I say “when we are old” because I have
little doubt that it will take most of our
lifetime for the belligerent nations to re-
cover their strength. But I have little
doubt that if, as seems likely, we beat
the Hun badly, he will start the moment
peace is signed to prepare for his revenge.
Also, 1 doubt if we shall have such a
horror of war as lots of people think. The
rising generation won't know what we
know, and we shall forget much that is
bad
Donald Hankey was a brother of Sir
Maurice Hankey, and he wrote that in the
trenches. He was killed on the Somme.
“We shall forget much that is bad.”
We have already done so. The real
danger to-day, however, is that those
keenest for war (on our own side) are
professors, politicians and journalists
who did not —or could not —attend
the last war, and who will probably have
succumbed to senile decay before the
next one is over.' —D. (N.S.W.).
Sympathy Grants
Some years ago the Federal Parliament
set the pace in salary grabs, and the State
Parliaments lost no time in following
such a profitable lead, despite the fact
that when elected the then current rate
of payment for members was expected
by the electors to continue and not to be
increased by members themselves.
Recently, when the Federal Parliament
granted handsome annuities to Dame
Enid Lyons and her family, they set an
example which the Tasmanian Govern-
ment has been quick to follow, and on
a population basis the Tasmanian grant
to Mrs. Ogilvie is even more generous
than the Federal one to Dame Enid.
Now, when anyone needs an old-age
or invalid pension, that person has to
put all his financial cards on the table,
so, before being so cheerfully generous
with the taxpayers’ money, the Govern-
ment should make public the actual in-
comes of the proposed pensioners. Many,
if not most, of the taxpayers have not
nearly the income of Dame Enid, and
possibly, in the case of Tasmania, not of
Mrs. Ogilvie. The new Tasmanian
Premier says it is really a “memorial” to
the late Mr. Ogilvie, but memorials
should be from voluntary subscriptions
and not from forced payments.
The very slow response in Tasmania
to the Lyons Memorial Fund for bur-
saries shows, I think, that the compul-
sory payment by taxpayers of a large
pension to the widow and family has
not the approval of the general public,
which feels that it cannot pay both ways.
Both the deceased gentlemen entered
the political arena by their own wish,
and when one accepts a high position
with good pay one must expect to work
for it. Many men not weighed down by
political cares die at 60 and under, and
no special provision is made for their
dependants. One wonders where this sort
of thing will end—perhaps all members
of Parliament will soon be granted special
pensions should their electors refuse to
re-elect them, and their dependants will
get pensions should they die in harness.
By all means let their fellow-members
show sympathy, but let them dig their
hands into their own pockets and not into
the taxpayers’. The thin end of the wedge
is the dangerous end. — John Hop (Tas.).
Technical Education
If the N.S.W. Government intends
grappling seriously with youth unemploy-
ment, it will have to vastly improve its
present facilities for obtaining technical
education.
Leaving school during the depression,
I took a dead-end factory job requiring
a certain amount of mechanical skill.
Desiring to further my knowledge of
engineering, I applied for entrance to the
Sydney Technical College, which was re-
fused because I was not an indentured
or trainee apprentice, and they were
already overcrowded. Workless youths,
of course, met with the same rebuff.
Isn’t it then only natural that the pro-
portion of unskilled workers continues
to steadily increase, and that the Defence
authorities are alarmed at the dearth of
highly-skilled men? Why not set aside
a portion of the enormous Defence ex-
penditure to rehabilitate technical educa-
tion in all the States? Should occasion
arise, we will need the men to make the
guns as well as those to man them.
There ought not to be any necessity
to impress our State Governments with
the urgency of providing adequate oppor-
tunities for youths desirous of being tech-
nically trained, and of providing free
technical education for those unemployed
and unable to afford payment for it. —
Petermac (N.S.W.).
The Australian Accent
I agree with “Sam Johnson” (B.
12/7 / ’39) that there is an Australian
accent, but I disagree with his “eo” for
“o” (as in “cow”). Although I have lec-
tured and broadcast both here and in
England and have been complimented on
my English, it remained for a young miss
of about 12 to correct me in my pronun-
ciation of “cow.”
The incident occurred a few years ago
when I was taking a niece for a walk in
Devon. In a very narrow lane with high
banks on each side we suddenly met a
very square-horned beast of the Devon
breed pawing up the ground and behav-
ing in a most unpleasant manner. I had
a thick stick in my hand, and, having
the youngster with me, I decided that
valor would have to be the better part
of discretion. I told the child to keep
out of the way, and I stepped forward
to teach the animal manners with a hard
rap on the end of a horn. To my relief,
without waiting for me to hit, the beast
turned and trotted off, making its way
through a broken gate into a paddock
where it stood and watched us go past.
As we passed I said, “You see, there
was nothing to be frightened of; it was
only an old cow.” My niece wasn’t im-
pressed. “What a funny way you have
of saying ‘cow,’ uncle,” was what she had
to say. “Do all Australians put an “a”
into ‘cow’ and call it ‘caow’? Anyhow,
uncle,” she continued, “that wasn’t a
‘ca-ow,’ as you call it. That was a bull.”
—Jalak (W.A.).
The Size of a Sleuth
The N.S.W. police and C. 1.8. are at
present being subjected to strong criti-
cism on the count of this State’s long
list of unsolved crimes.
As far as detectives are concerned
there is one absurd qualification de-
manded before a budding sleuth has any
chance of realising his ambitions in any
of our State police forces —he must pos-
sess the same physique as that required
for an ordinary policeman.
Does this mean that only big men
make good detectives? It means that
even if you had, or exhibited signs of
having, the genius and aptitude of a
modern Sherlock Holmes, but were an
inch below the standard height, you
would be rejected as unsuitable.
Because they have exceptional stature
and build, these detectives would prob-
ably be more easily distinguished by
malefactors. Granted that a uniformed
policeman should be physically outstand-
ing, but police departments should waive
physical standards as far as possible, and
use discretion in selecting those who are
supposed to specialise in the scientific
study and detection of crime.— Peter
Piper (N.S.W.).
“Businessmen” in the Government
We hear a lot nowadays about the
need of “businessmen” in the Govern-
ment, but to judge by what is happening
in this country they will take a lot of
finding.
The most essential qualification needed
to run any business is the ability to take
a long view—to ensure steady future
prosperity, and not to grab immediate
increased profits at the expense of the
future.
Presumably the people in control of
daily newspapers and commercial radio
stations, which rely almost entirely on
advertising revenue for their existence,
consider that their businesses are run on
sound lines. Actually their pages,
political talks and news sessions, by-
giving the impression that war is likely
at any moment, have created a feeling
of insecurity everywhere, with the result
that, though immediate sales of papers
increase and people listen-in to the
stations which peddle the most sensa-
tional stories, a “fear psychosis’ has


now been firmly established; people
everywhere are marking time, customers
are refusing to spend, manufacturers are
not planning further expansion—and
naturally newspaper sales and adver-
tising revenue will drop.
But what about the other “business-
men,” those who supply this advertising
revenue? The whole of the country's
enterprises are represented there.
Haven’t they yet realised what is hap-
pening? If so, they could stop it over-
night with a few well-chosen words, with
beneficial results to everybody.
As it is we are playing into the hands
of the totalitarian countries; their
economy can’t be affected by “jitters” ;
ours can. That’s the result they are
aiming at, judging by the ill-concealed
joy when they mention it nearly every
day on their radio.
Businessmen’s Government! I plump
for a small Cabinet composed entirely of
Australian women who have brought
up a dozen kids apiece ; we’d get action
then. —J. N. Rookledge (N.S.W.).
Why Didn’t They Fight?
There is something puzzling my mind
for which I have looked in vain for a
real solution. Before and after “Munich”
papers and magazines were full of
articles giving particulars of the great
military strength of Czechoslovakia and
of its resolve to defend her independence.
In the event it submitted to the German
demands without firing a shot.
Now we have always been taught to
admire small countries which have fought
for their freedom and independence in
the past, even against overwhelming odds.
The Spartans at Thermopylce, the Dutch
against Spain, the Boers against Britain,
Belgium against Germany, and the
Chinese against the armed strength of
Japan are all held up to our admira-
tion, because they preferred to fight and
die for their liberty, even if they knew
they would be defeated.
, Why didn’t the Czechs do the same?
They are now praised. Why? Are we
no more to admire a nation which de-
fends itself and its liberties against a
more powerful aggressor? The Dean of
St. Paul’s, Dr. W. R. Matthews, has
actually said that a nation should not
fight unless it is sure of winning. Were
our former ideas all wrong?
Was there some treachery in high
places in Czechoslovakia? While quite
willing for Britain, France, Russia and
any other country to fight for them, the
Czechs did nothing to defend themselves.
Can anyone clear up the doubts in my
mind?—L. E. (M.L.).
No Australian-made Tools
Am I the only man in the country to
note the missing link in the chain of Aus-
tralia’s industrial progress?
It should have been the first to be
forged, yet it has been utterly neglected.
I refer to the manufacture of tools —
particularly the humble tools of trade,
such as hammers, in their many varieties,
saws, axes, braces and bits and a host
of others essential to constructive work
of any kind.
We are making almost everything but
tools. All those I have used—and they
are many—have been branded “Made in
Germany” or “U.S.A.” or “England.” In
the event of a blockade what would
happen?
It would be a sorry spectacle to see
Tom, Dick and Harry waiting for Bill’s
hammer or saw to get on with their jobs.
In fact, progress in many directions could
be completely held up for the want of
tools.
We have our small-arms factories;
why not small-tools factories, the latter
being just as if not more important
than the former in defence work?
We have the men, the materials and
the money. Who will have the initiative
to give us tools made in Australia? —•
Jack Beattie (Q.).
The Insiders
A keener point was given to Norman
Lindsay’s cartoon “The Outsider” by the
coincident publication (B. 26/7/’39) of the
State Statistician’s figures of unemploy-
ment in N.S.W. These showed the per-
centage of unemployment in June,
1939, as 7.4 compared with 4.9 in June,
1938. The number of persons employed,
exclusive of relief-workers, had fallen
from 839,511 to 831,555. In the face of
this, surely the gayness of Sydney’s night
life, so worshippingly recorded in the
dailies, shows the stern self-sacrifice with
which the Sassiety sets grit their teeth
and see it through. Dream Faces
(N.S.W.).
Christian Science
In B. 12/7/’39 “F.G.K.8.” suggests
that the term “Christian Science” is a
misnomer, and says that the term science
should be “applied only to the exact
studies so named in our schools and uni-
versities.”
Christian Science teaches that the mar-
vellous works of healing, including the
raising of the dead, performed by the
Master, and afterwards carried on by His
disciples and the church established by
them for at least three centuries, were
“Go astern a bit, 'Any !"
based on an understanding faith in a
spiritual law. The belief that material
methods and systems are the be-all and
end-all of life and constitute the only
thing entitled to be called science is
being seriously challenged to-day, for men
are beginning to recognise more and
more that it is in the moral and spiritual
realm that the real solutions of our prob-
lems lie.
The growth of the Christian Science
Church is due to the fact that its adher-
ents have had indisputable proof that the
application of the spiritual laws dis-
covered by Mrs. Eddy to their physical as
well as their mental and moral problems
has brought freedom and release from
ills that were in many cases incapable
of solution by other methods. —J. F.
Turner, Christian Science Committee on
Publication for N.S.W.
Bread and Butter
It is the boast of politicians that Aus-
tralia is one of the greatest primary-
producing countries in the British Empire.
Although the average man (particularly
the man on the basic wage) may acknow-
ledge that tribute to his country, he is
prone to consider how it affects him per-
sonally. It is a standing joke that Aus-
tralian butter is sold in London at a
retail price cheaper than in any State in
the Commonwealth.
The price of bread in Brisbane is now
a loaf, and attempts are being
made to increase the price to 6d. It
is amazing that in a primary-producing
country the retail prices of both the
domestic commodities referred to are
at such a high figure. Bread and
butter have always been regarded as the
necessities of life; it is disgraceful that
these necessities should thus be made
luxuries as far as the working man is
concerned. It was even noticed that on
one occasion when the flour tax was
reduced the price of bread in Queensland
was increased. A pound of butter at
Is. 7d. and a loaf of bread at may
feed a few hungry mouths, but to the
man on a very small salary such prices
for these essentials of life are tragic.—
D C. M. (Q.).
The Pyjama Girl
Before the police break out into an-
other frenzied effort to determine the
identity and the murderer of the Albury
“Pyjama Girl,” would they please for-
get all about it? Martin Brady
(N.S.W.).
Business Letters
How much more interesting work
would be for the dictator of the letter,
the typist and the receiver if business
communications occasionally broke away
from their stereotyped form. The frills
and flounces which usually adorn letters
only help to confuse the writer’s mean-
ing and waste good paper and time.
“We wish to express our appreciation
of your assistance in connection with
this matter” doesn’t ring true, whereas
“Thanks for helping us” is likely to bring
a beam of satisfaction into the manager’s
face. Then it would be a pleasant change
to read a letter which began, not with
“We have to acknowledge receipt of your
letter of the xth instant,” but with “We
were pleased when the postman brought
your letter round this morning.”
Such ponderous sentences as “We
would be pleased if you would communi-
cate with us by telephone should you
require any further information in con-
nection with this matter” could and
should be shortened to “If you want to
know anything else, just give us a ring.”
Also an ending like “Cheerio for the
present” sounds much more sincere than
“Assuring you of our best efforts on
your behalf at all times. We are, yours
faithfully.”— Wilhelmina (S.A.).
Science and Culture
The Greeks expounded the principles
upon which the happier parts of our
present social structure are built.
If Diogenes had difficulty in finding an
honest man we have at least the benefit
of his experience in that direction. And
Aristotle must rest content in the know-
ledge that his country was never guilty
of a war of aggression.
If modern science claims to have pro-
longed our span of life, the claim, when
summed up, merely amounts to the fact
that we have an extra few years in which
to subsist on the old-age pension. What-
ever science may say, the fact remains
that to-day we are experiencing a state
of misery, unemployment, massacre and
nervous tension such as the world has
never before witnessed.
True, the Greeks didn’t discover the
radio, the motor-car, the talking picture
or the telephone, probably for the reason
that they were an enlightened and a cul-
tured people; but they gave us some-
thing more substantial —a system of
living based on human needs and calcu-
lated to add to the sum-total of human
happiness.— Sappho (N.S.W.).
Are We?
The question has been raised (B.
28/6/ 39): “Are we just colonials ?” Are
we just an infant country ready to follow
the lead of the Motherland unquestion-
ingly, or, on the other hand, have we a
mind of our own and an attitude towards
the everyday problems of life of which
we can be justly proud?
In support of this latter view, might I
instance the case of an Australian woman
recently in London? Having explored
the great city, she then wished to see
something of English rural life. Accord-
ingly an advertisement for a companion
to an elderly couple in the country was
answered, and she quickly became accus-
tomed to her new position. The menage
consisted of the elderly couple aforesaid,
a cook, a housemaid and a chauffeur-
gardener-“all-round-man.”
It so fell out that before our fellow-
countrywoman had been ensconced a
fortnight the cook scalded her foot. Of
course, it was quite out of the question
for an English housemaid to cook the
meals. Consternation of elderly couple.
Our friend steps swiftly into the breach:
“Couldn’t I do the cooking for you until
cook’s hand is better?” Astonished relief
of elderly couple.
Not so long after this episode the
housemaid slipped on the stairs and
sprained her ankle badly. There was
nothing for it but to rest the leg. Impos-
sible, of course, for cook to attempt the
housemaid’s job. It simply wasn’t done
—according to English practice. Con-
sternation once more. Again our friend
suggests : “Let me see to it until Lizzie’s
foot has recovered. Nonsense! I don’t
mind.” Amazed gratification of elderly
couple.
The climax came when the chauffeur
caught the ’flu and was obliged to keep
his bed for a week. Consternation more
marked than ever. For how now were
elderly couple to take that pleasant little
afternoon jaunt precisely at three sharp in
the lovely Daimler? Again our friend
suggests a remedy and acts as chauffeur
for the rest of the week.
Elderly couple almost prostrate with
surprise and gratitude. Never before had
they heard of such a competent and ver-
satile woman. “These Australians are
astounding people! ” — Gwen Burling-
ton (S.A.).
Experience v. Learning
“Scribbler’s” remarks (B. 12/7/’39)
about graduates of the university who
rush away through lack of opportunity is
typical of the class he defends.
If he were to check up on the in-
stances he quotes of young men holding
the reins in big concerns he would find
that the majority rise from some minor
position, such as office-boy or stamp-
licker.
From my own observations there are
a great number of young men, and
women, too, who dash off to the univer-
sity, cram their heads with book-learning,
collect a few diplomas, then stand around
waiting for the plums of a successful
career to be showered upon them.
The brain which easily assimilates
knowledge is not always capable of
applying it in a practical way. An ounce
“Bulletin” Style
Don’t agree with Joyce Martin
Skinner (B. 19/17/’39), though she cites
my work in this paper to prove her point.
For years and years, ever since Archibald
began to invite and pay for contribu-
tions, the paper’s peculiar and character-
istic “style” has been almost its most
noticeable feature, and no regular con-
tributor has escaped its influence. It
might best be realised by imagining a
large sign over the entrance to the
editorial part of the office displaying in
big block letters some such legend as
“Don’t Dump Waste Words Here.” That
was Archie’s first principle as an editor,
and it has never been abandoned. If it
ever should be, then Bulletin “style”
will have departed.
I have had experience of the editorial
ways of Archibald, Edmond, Prior and
the present editor, and in 40 years’ prac-
tice have learned that it is far more diffi-
cult to write a Bulletin story than one
for any other paper I’ve ever exploited
—simply because of this insistence upon
the observance of the above warning.
But it is a wise insistence, and nothing
has done more to make the paper what
it is. De Maupassant, Balzac, O. Henry
—they all found the Bulletin “style”
for themselves, but those for whom it has
been found have gained immeasurably by
it. May it continue always!
(N.S.W.).
J. H. M. A.


of experience is worth a pound of
opinions learned parrot fashion from a
book.
The sooner some of our graduates
throw off that air of superiority acquired
with their diplomas, the sooner they will
find people ready to give them an oppor-
tunity for proving that their book-learn-
ing is backed up by sound commonsense
and a practical business head. — Nurse
(N.S.W.).
Unemployment and Taxation
The biggest evil in Australia is un-
employment, with all its far-reaching
ramifications. There are ramifications
that we are unable to see, but they are
deplorably there nevertheless. To
remedy unemployment many members
of the public think and breathe taxation,
which suits Parliaments. Just a small
sum like £2,000,000 is wanted to stave
off the evil unemployment day for a few
months, so we get a “special shortly-
removable unemployment tax.” In the
first case it is not special, and it certainly
is not removable, because, once on, it
stays.
The £2,000,000 is collected, and in its
collection a number of small firms, small
employers, etc., shut up shop and their
employees join the lost legions, the
legions damned to unemployment. The
additional tax, with its additional offi-
cials, is more than offset by the
loss to the public and the workers in
cash, and in the loss of employment
from the original channels. Put in other
words, “numerical employment resultant
from taxation has already been lost at
the other end of the scale.” So we are
no further forward.
In Britain lately it was decided to
spend £280,000,000 per annum on ad-
ditional armaments, and some of the
papers acclaimed the “fact” —they called
it a “fact” —that unemployment would
be reduced almost to negligibility.
Exactly what happened? The unemploy-
ment in the nation remained practically
the same, some millions of men still
being unemployed because the money
spent in one place was merely taken
from another. Just a balancing of the
scale, and not an altogether good
balancing either.
It is admitted that certain people
benefit by taxation, but the workers who
are supposed to get the benefit would be
better off if it came through different
channels. The assistance wouldn’t have
to bear the costs that are used up in the
collection and distribution of the tax.
And industry would be encouraged to
employ still more people.— Extension
(W.A.).
“Time for Your Medicine”
I used to hear that growl about hospi-
tal working conditions from friends
training at Melbourne hospitals, and I
used to think that the life must be un-
bearable. But isn’t there another side
to the question?
For instance, in one hospital the
trainee does a nine months’ course, dur-
ing which she is paid ss. a week and her
keep, but if she has ordinary intelligence
she comes out of it with a midwifery
certificate that will enable her to earn
an excellent living.
Nurses who growl seem to forget that
their hospital training, with free food,
clothing and pocket money, is only the
apprenticeship to a money-making pro-
fession. Any young woman in good
health and with a fair education can
qualify. A “merit” certificate is the edu-
cational standard. When she has passed
her hospital training the young nurse can
earn £4 4s. a week with keep under excel-
lent working conditions. The pay is
certain, as her services are not requisi-
tioned unless the patient has the cash.
For those who like hospital work £3 3s.
and keep is usual. There are also open-
ings for those with special knowledge or
with a flair for administration.
It seems that discipline is the greatest
hardship. When May E. Wooley (B.
5/7/’39) says that “if men were nurses
things would be different,” she does not
realise that men in barracks have to put
up with more difficult working condi-
tions.
Let me say that I admire my friends
in the nursing profession. I also admire
the handsome sedans that they drive as
they go about their duties in the streets
of this country town. — Ploto (N.S.W.).
A Favorite Page
Which part of The Bulletin do other
readers turn to first? I can’t get the
pages over quickly enough in a joyous
search for Jolliffe’s weekly backblocks
picture. We are still laughing over some
that appeared months ago, and it’s good
to get a laugh these shadowed days.
We live in the wheatbelt. —F. U. F.
(W.A.).
Danzig and the Tyrol
Danzig is the main international crisis
centre at the moment. Geographically,
it is a Polish city—situated at the mouth
of Poland’s river, the Vistula, and vital
to her overseas trade —while racially it is
German.
The Germans themselves are pointing
the way to a possible solution by their
treatment of the German population of
South Tyrol (formerly Austrian, now
Italian). These Germans have received
notice to move either into Germany or
into Italy proper, thus forcing them to
make a choice of nationality. The popu-
lation of Danzig is about 400,000, and
it should not be a matter of great diffi-
culty to move those who prefer to live
under the Reich and to compensate them
adequately. The cost would be con-
siderable-running into several millions
of pounds, perhaps—-but it would be a
small item compared with the cost of a
war to which Britain and France are
committed in the event of a German
coup.
Germany may of course refuse such a
solution, but in that case the hollowness
of the pretence that the German leaders’
only concern is to receive Germans into
the Reich would be exposed. —A. P. D.
(Vic.).
Grandiloquent Words
When we are told that a film is “colos-
sal” or “stupendous” our first reaction is
to say, “Yes, of course, but is it any
good?” We are no longer led up the
marble steps by words alone. The people
we deal with daily can get our money
away from us only by giving us good
service ; what they call themselves doesn’t
matter. It may be taken as an axiom
that when the polysyllable comes in the
man in the street should look out.
But there are two natural events that
happen so seldom that we are taken un-
awares, and we pay because we have
no standard to judge by. There is the
cost of being born and being buried.
When the once-despised confinement be-
comes an accouchement then you are
going to get it in the neck. When at the
other end of life the undertaker becomes
a mortician, his morgue a funeral parlor,
the coffin a casket and the burial an in-
terment —well, wait until the bill —
er—account comes! — Spare Me Days
(N.S.W.).
Married Women Workers
The problem of the unemployed, is
it? Here is an angle on it. A married
woman employed in an Adelaide shop
tendered her resignation. The reason
she gave was that her husband had been
selected by the Government to go to
England for special experience. He had
previously been transferred from a key
position in one of S.A.’s largest industrial
concerns. Asked why she was working
while her husband had a good job, she
said that they had always desired to travel
abroad and thought that they could save
more quickly if both earned wages.
Two minutes before a widow, left
suddenly with three young children, was
refused a position because there were no
vacancies.— Kyamba (S.A.).
There is among men a general and
most unjust tendency to blame the
woman worker for unemployment in
Australia and elsewhere. Whatever the
causes are, it seems that this is not one of
them. It is generally understood that
there is no unemployment in Germany,
and it is suggested that this is due to the
home.
That is as may be, but the figures
here quoted from a pamphlet on “The
Position of the Working Woman in Ger-
many” (issued by the Anglo-German In-
formation Service of London) do not
support that contention. There are, so
the pamphlet states, 11.5 million women
in employment in Germany, of whom
4.7 million are married. In the clothing
trade 66.5 p.c. of the workers are women,
in the textile industry 53.5 p.c., in trade
and commerce 38.4 p.c., in food and
luxury trades 37.3 p.c., and in the iron
and metal industry 14.3 p.c. Women, in
short, amounted in 1937 to 30.9 p.c. of
all workers in industry and business. It
is pointed out that until 1934 the number
of employed women was to a certain
extent on the decline, but that the number
has increased steadily in the last few
years. And this despite the fact that
where men and women do the same work
they receive the same wages, a piece of
simple justice that seems beyond the
democracies.
The shortage of workers in Germany
is probably due to the removal of large
numbers from the labor market by com-
pulsory labor service and military train-
ing, and to unorthodox Government
finance which, according to the rules,
should have bankrupted the country
years ago. But don’t quote Germany to
me as evidence that women in industry
mean men on the d01e.—217 (Tas.).
The Workless Youth
The cartoon by Norman Lindsay in
The Bulletin (July 26) gives food for
thought. We are often told that Aus-
tralia is the Land of Opportunity, yet a
youth blows out his brains because he
is workless, homeless and friendless.
In the event of war, the nation would
be offering clothing, food and shelter
to such as that youth. Should peace
offer him less?
If war broke out the newspapers would
devote columns to donations to Red
Cross funds. Could not an appeal be
made for subscriptions to provide a
camp for unemployed, friendless youths?
If the subscribers want a return for
their money, the young men could re-
ceive military training as a slight hint
that Australia can show a force of
trained men able to protect their
country.
One does not suggest that all friend-
less youths be regarded as cannon
fodder, but training would benefit them
physically and give them the feeling
that their time was not being wasted.
It would be better for Australia and
for the boys concerned to have them
trained as potential soldiers rather than
have them cast adrift. as unwanted in
the land of their birth. — Arev (Vic.).
“Cushy” Jobs
So glad A. Daly (B. 26/7/’39) placed
his adjective between quotation marks
when, referring to the “work-shy” young
Australians who “hanker” after the
“white-collar” jobs. I’d hate to think
he really imagines such jobs are.“cushy.”
Has A.D. ever put in a hectic stretch
in an office surrounded by a dozen clack-
ing typewriters, handling obstreperous
clients who’d rather accept the ruling of
the woman next door than that of a man
seven years in his job, and keeping track
of the score and more of routine matters
which must be kept in mind by the poor
cow in the “cushy” office chair?
It looks easy enough from the right
side of the counter, but I’ll guarantee
A.D., or any other “where-men-are-men”
wallah, will lose as much good honest
sweat in a busy morning at our office as
the manly specimens I’ve seen leaning
on their spades in this State. And, if
there’s anything snobbish about good
honest sweat, then I’m the Grand Duke
of Whitecollarcomplex!
To say that the average boy to-day
regards manual labor with derision is
shooting in the dark. Most lads realise
that manual labor offers little scope for
advancement, hence the laudable desire
to land a “cushy” job which offers them
an even chance of ending up with a
position commensurate with their edu-
cation and ability. Believe me, A.D.,
there’s precious little “cushiness” about
work in a modern office. Try it some
time. — Shiny-seat (Vic.).
Practice for Fire-fighters
Since the terrible fires of last summer
nearly every country district has formed
a fire-fighting organisation and has in-
vested in equipment. Without training
and practice, however, the men in many
of these organisations are like an army
which has never been trained or drilled.
A start should be made at once. The
first step could be to announce that a
test call will be sent out during the fol-
lowing week at some unspecified time,
and the response to that call is sure to
reveal hitherto unsuspected flaws in
equipment and arrangements. These
should be put right and another test
made until it is sure that nothing should
prevent a swift and efficient muster of
men and equipment at a threatened
spot.
In spring a lot of scrub is burned
off. I suggest that, wherever pos-
sible, all fire-fighting organisations take
advantage of this fact to stage a field
test of their men and material by trying
to stop one of these fires, just as if it
was later on in the season and the fire
a real menace. That would put the
worth of all organisations beyond all
doubt, one way or the other.
In order not to make practice calls a
total waste of time, a fine day with a
drying wind should be chosen for the
test, and when the call is answered those
who answer it should be set stacking and
burning all the fallen boughs and hol-
low logs along the near-by roads, thus
making the roads better as far as a
firebreak is concerned and doing the
work while the grass is still green.—H.
A. Lindsay (S.A.).
Pioneers
“Young ’Un’s” self-made-man’s lament
(B. 21/6/’39) that the young men of
Australia to-day are not the pioneering
men their grandfathers were reminds me
that this is just as it should be. Pioneers
are seldom born in the country which
they pioneer. Consider it. Who pioneered
Australia? Was it not strange men from
a strange country —Englishmen, Scotch- -
men, Irishmen, Welshmen?
These “emigrants” came here and went
out into the unknown and carved farms
and towns out of the virgin wilderness.
They took their wives and families with
them and founded a new nation out of
vast nothingness. But with the second
generation the pioneering spirit had prac-
tically disappeared—it was unnecessary
because the descendants of these “emi-
grants” were too busy consolidating what
their fathers had won to bother about
further pioneering—and naturally so.
We have now, however, arrived at a
point where everything won by the early
pioneers has been consolidated almost —
shall we say?—to the full. Before this
country can advance further we must
have new pioneers. Where shall we find
them? Certainly not in Australia, be-
cause we native-born Australians do not
possess the urge of necessity our fore-
fathers did. Therefore, we must natu-
rally go back to the fount whence our
forefathers sprang.
There has been much talk of the dam-
age wholesale immigration of refugees
would do to our standards of living in
this country. I don’t believe they would
worsen the existing situation one jot or
tittle. We should take the obvious
example of the U.S. and throw open our
gates to the entire white race —let them
come in as fast as they like, provided
they are morally and physically fit. Other-
wise Australia is doomed to stagnation
and, perhaps, extermination. This fresh
influx would supply the new pioneers so
necessary to the advancement of this
country, beside broadening our culture
and narrow outlook. — Donal (W.A.).
Music for All.
Since it seems that the A.B.C. is now
established as Public Entrepreneur No. 1,
it seems a pity that ample provision could
not be made for those whose radio fees
make possible the concerts of great artists
like Artur Schnabel at Sydney Town
Hall.
The broadcast (of half the programme)
is at best a poor substitute for the real
thing, since broadcast music, unless it is
first recorded, cannot satisfactorily segre-
gate itself from that booming noise
caused by acoustics. Atmosphere, too,
is a factor.
The Sydney Town Hall holds about
1200, of which (this year, anyway) over
900 seats were “booked” for the series
of Schnabel recitals by “subscribers.”
The average man cannot afford to pay
in advance for. four or six concerts, even
if he wanted to hear that many. Since
it is now “fashionable” to attend sym-
phony orchestra recitals, it is practically
impossible for the working man to get
a seat. Only the “A” subscribers at
present have a chance of getting a decent
pew; “B” and “C” subscribers’ seats are
not guaranteed, so they must take their
chance in the queue and with a well-
picked-at bbx-plan.
And why not invite Mr. Georg Szell
to conduct the Sydney Symphony Orches-
tra permanently? At present a conduc-
tor arrives, gets the orchestra up to con-
cert pitch, and after he has departed the
rot sets in until another conductor arrives
whose interpretation may be entirely dif-
ferent. This capable Czechoslovakian
would prove a sound, cultural invest-
ment.—Job (N.S.W.).
City Girls as Wives and Mothers
The superiority of country girls as
wives and mothers has been asserted so
aggressively and persistently that it
has become almost an accepted fact.
The assertion is usually made only by
country people who show an unyielding
bias on the point.
Because country girls spend more time
at home and do not train for a business
career, it is taken for granted they will
be more fitted for housekeeping. But
how many hundreds of city girls have to
rush through several hours of intense
housekeeping before and after their work-
ing hours? And has anyone estimated
the value of a business training in hand-
ling the affairs of the home? Economic
shopping is a big factor in the successful
running of even a country home, and
the city girl’s resourcefulness in bargain-
hunting leaves her country cousin miles
behind.
As for motherhood, that is a deep-
rooted instinct, whether in a city or
country girl, and is untouched by the
veneer of city gaiety, the painting of toe-
nails or the smoking of a few cigarettes.
—E. M. B. (N.S.W.).


Mainly Mail-
w
VtINCttMSrHR
TWIN-SERVICE
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-Cell,
Range
1500 ft.
35/-
.‘-cell, 350 ft. OC/
Range .... «3 "
Complete with Batteries.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KINO ST., SYDNEY.
FOR
TYPE
BLADE
25 1-
’OWT I'KKE
FOK CASH.
STROPS
AND
HONES.
W.JNO. BAKER"'
.ltd..
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
i) £)
e
w
e
w
e
BRIGGS&STRATTON
AIR-COOEEI)
4-CYCEE
SIN GEE-C YJLINDER
PETROL MOTORS.
Mo 5 HORSEPOWER
From £l7/10/-
Agents all States.
Price Eist gladly
forwarded.
aMPUOh (A/SIA) PTY LIMITED
382 Kent St.
BLANKET BALE
See what Salvage Stores now offer:—
Blanket Bale comprising: 2
Cream Double-bed Blankets.
2 Heavy-quality Linen-finish ?d
Double-bed Sheets, size 90 x
80. Guaranteed 5 years of
wear. 1 Continental-designed
Silk Interwoven Bedspread,
Double-bed size. 2 Handy-size
Coloured Bath Towels. 1 Large-
size Admiralty Bath Towel. 2
Super-quality Linen-finished
Pillow Cases (large size).
Forward Postal Notes, Money
Orders or Cheques to the value
of ONLY 35/-
to secure this Super Bargain Bale.
MAIL ORDER DEPARTMENT,
SALVAGE STORES, 36 s S. T ST "
g SALVAGE STOWES
SYDNEY
NEW INVENTIONS.
No. I—Re-Nu Wonder Farmers’ Garden Tool. Only
weighs 31bs. Does over 10 different jobs. One
man can do 5 men’s work daily. Hoes, rakes,
shovels, furrows, scarifies, slashes, drills, levels,
cultivates, pulverises, cuts, trims lawns, hedges,
•picks weeds, nettles, clears undergrowth from trees,
posts, .shrubs, mallee roots, suckers, fences, black-
berries, bushes, corners, rows, prunes trees. Per-
forms hundreds other jobs; easier, faster, better.
Retail price, 15/-. No. 2—Re-Nu Liquid Electro-
Plater. Just rub or brush on. Replates like new
nickel, silver, copper, gold, zinc, tin, every class
metal, 2031 other articles without dismantling.
25/ outfit. No. 3- —Re-Nu Battery Welder, brazes,
solders all metals to metals, 43/6. No. 4—Nu-Metal.
Pour in plug holes, reconditions while-U-drive.
Saves rebore, ends piston slap, oil, petrol waste,
etc., 6/6 tube. No. s—Re—Nu Plastic Leather
Rubber. Does 1001 repairs, 2/6. Free trials offer.
RE-KU CO., 72 Swan St., Richmond (Vic.).
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman System develops personal
attributes and qualities such as:
Self-confidence
Concentration
Judgment
Decision
Will Power
Social Ease
and a Reliable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, describ -
ing Pelmanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Cr.
Market St., Melbourne. Telephone MU2355.
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
188 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY
QJhe Challenger
KEROSENE Bath-heater
Simple to work— cheap to
run. Merely turn on water
& light the burner for a hot
shower or bath. Write for
descriptive pamphlet—
The GREAT WESTERN SADDLE
75/- BARE
(Mounts 10/- extra.')
A splendidly - made
saddle into which the
best workmanship and
materials have gone.
Note the deep channel
illustrated in the sec-
tional drawing. This
enables a cool draught
of air to pass along
the horse's back.
f reight Free in -N.B. IK.
Write for FREE
Saddlery , Catalogue.
w
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
18-20 WILSON ST., .NEWTOWN, N.S.W.
“SUPER BARLING,”
22/6 Value for 14/11.
m
This “Super Barling” contains a self-
cleansing: and cooling system. Special Price
to “Bulletin” Readers 14/11
Genuine Vienna Meerschaum Pipe. Beauti-
fully packed. Honestly worth 30/-.
Special Price to “Bulletin” Readers, 17/0.
Goods Sent C.O.D. Rail or Tost.
Good Tobacco Cheap.
Send 6d. stamps for Liberal Sample of
“Levysown” Quality Tobacco in Pine Cut
or Pipe at 7/- lb. Honestly worth 10/- lb.
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 lvs. pkt., 3/4 doz. pkts.
Zig-Zag Cigarette-making Machine, 1/-.
I PVY Tobacconist, fist. 38 Years.
****•“* * * * 713 George St.', Sydney.
SOL
A REAL '
VEST POCKET TELESCOPE
3 BRASS slides
NieELY NICKELED PLATED AND FINISHED
Ifl , . GOOD LENSES. WELL FITTED
I*- Inches in circumference. H inch diameter, 2 inches
... t. I 0 0? ? osed - and * inches extended.
We have had this Telescope made for us with the ex-
intention of producing a glass with the
greatest possible magnifying power and the small-
possible' compass. It can be as
'•lonk carried as a P en or pencil and
useful for. is a genuine Telescope,
!° r many purposes to
many persons a 5 ex-
tremely lowjmce within t h e reach
0 everybody. Only One Shdltne
and Threepence, post paid. ®
UNjON MFC. & AGENCY CO., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb.j
STOPyour Rupture
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says:—
“I order your appliances lor rn.v
patients because 1 consider tliein
preferable to any. other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli -
ance you get greater security and
comfort. To prove this we offer
-14 DAYS FREE TRIAL-
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27). 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
e
w
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are'
still going sirong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
MARKER CO..
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
THE HANOMAG DIESEL
TRACTOR
zrm
Uses cheap
fuel.
The most
e c onomical
tractor o n
the market.
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. Pty., Ltd.,
343 Cleveland St., 355 William St.
Kedfern, N.S.W. West Melbourne, Vic.
“BIG SIX”
0399
© © Q
BATTERY
ELECTRIC
FENCE
Charger
Most economical and efficient;
governs 25 miles of fencing,
works from a safe 6-volt Bat-
tery, and has several features
not found in any other make.
Start with the best, it costs no
more than the other kind.
Write for descriptive leaflet.
Single Wire Fence Co.,
189 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
TARZANS GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ' ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
and parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tarzan’s Grip Manufacturing
Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Willoughby Road,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES. 1/.
e
deaf:
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—-head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive-
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. ?< G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
HAWAIIAN GUITAR
Complete, 35/- only
These beautiful instruments are mar-
vellous value, and are offered you,
delivered free to your nearest post
office, for only 35/-. COMPLETE
CORRESPONDENCE COURSE IS
GIVEN FREE, and we guarantee that
you will be able to play within seven
days, otherwise we will refund your
money in full. This offer cannot be
repeated. Goods can be sent C.O.D.
if you wish.
TALKERIES,
Itil CASTLEREABH STREET, SVDMii
LU
A
<\
u
X
H
(/)
5
o
X
LU
Z
Memorise With Ease.
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Command Men and Affairs.
The Stott Centre, 100 Russell Street,
Melbourne. Please forward free book
re the Leeds-Rowlands Method.
Name
Address
S.I>.
12
LLLU
m
'j
Write for Booklet
Building,
and
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrieal
—Practically invisible—
No wires—No batter : es
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting rooms.
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Suite 601 K, City Mutual
, cur. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney ;
at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
T*f
THIS ONE WIRE
ELECTRIC FENCE
Parmak Electric Eencer
cuts fencing costs by 80%
. . . holds horses, cattle,
pigs, sheep with one wire.
Harmless. Hundreds in
use. Money back if not
satisfied. Write for detaiis.
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY.LTD.
IGBGEORGE STREET..SYDNEY. N.S.W.
IEd£S!I|STQVES
i IEOR
■Y/W/f//. W/////A YS/,V. S.V.V// •/',■/////,,,
SINGLE .OVEN! OM
GEELONGIVICII
PAGEIMFGtCIM
GZJiEQO
CHARCOAL GAS
The Minister for Defence has notified the
public that plans have been made for the
substitution in “an emergency” of Charcoal
Oas units on Military Transport equipment
in Australia. WHY WAIT FOR THIS
“EMERGENCY”?
Any handy man can make his own efficient gas
plant from the crude oil drum type to the
latest design—to operate tractors, cars, trucks,
or any type of spark plug engine.
Xo alterations to the engine are necessary, and
you can run on petrol or charcoal gas at will.
.M.v simple plans and instructions, which can be
purchased for £l, show you how to do the job
and sal e 9'o p.c, on Fuel Costs.
F. MAHER, 268 O’Connell St., Sydney.
LEICA SALON
50 GUINEAS IN PRIZES.
Entries Close Sept. 15, 1939.
For entry forms apply to your photo-
graphic dealer or write to the Sole Aus-
tralian Leica Agent.
HERMANN JUNGE,
Kyle House,
31 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
13 MACQUARIE PLACE, SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
BALDNESS
Can Be
CURED!
Tears of •'specialise!]
training and ex-
perience in treating
all types of bald-
ness have made
Edwin Holland one
of the most famous
858
Hair Specialists in Australia. Write him
to-day with your hair problems.
34!) Little Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
G.15.1.
MOUTH ORGANS
Chromatic.
As used and played by all
Professionals and Leading Players.
40-reed Chromatic 7/6
48-reed Chromatic 10/-
64-reed Chromatic 20/-
Made in Germany.”
D. J. MACARTNEY & CO.
14 Basement, Kembla Building,
58 Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
w
ABOVE:
The Climbing
Tomato Vine
Kro w n by
HCWT.
TOMATOES
FROM ONE VINE!
Mr. E. W. Sawyer, of Broomc-
hill, W.A., writes: “Enclosed
is a snap of a CLIMBING
TOMATO grown from one of
your seeds. 124 feet. JUST
OVER THE GUTTERING OF
THE HOUSE. The yield of
the plant lias already been
OVER 1151 b.. and there is
still ANOTHER 601 b. on the
vine. Some of the tomatoes
weighed 140 z.“
Sow Now. 2/6 packet, posted.
N'.S.W. SEED CO.,
17n I’llt Street, Sydney.
For “Service” Coupon see page 48.


Costs less to
cure that
COUGH
with
w
the famous money-saving
3 in ONE family remedy for
INFLUENZA
COUGHS—COLDS
ŵ
BRONCHiTIS
.
SORE THROATS
\\
o
///1 \ \ '
is all
you pay for
ONE PINT
of this world’s best
remedy for
CHEST—NOSE
I
"
TWINS THRIVED
thanks to
HEENZO
ALL PARENTS SHOULD READ THIS
LETTER FROM THE MOTHER OF THESE
BEAUTIFUL TWINS
22 James Crescent,
Gladesville, N.S.W.
The Manager, “Heenzo
Dear Sir,—
Enclosed please find a photograph of niy twin son and daughter.
Since earliest infancy, whenever they showed signs of a cold, I
have used your “Heenzo” with extraordinary beneficial results.
They are now two years old, and are bonnie babies, thanks to
the help of freedom from colds, etc.,- due■ to the use of Heenzo
regularly. —Yours in all sincerity,
(Mrs.) Geo. Winch.
(
Save lots of money hf simply, in your own home, adding
a two-shilling bottle of concentrated HEENZO to
sweetened water, thus making ONE PINT of the world s
best family remedy, equally good and safe for children
and adults, as a speedy and pleasant cure for chest, nose
and throat ailments.
By taking made-up HEENZO internally you quickly
soothe and banish COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP,
BRONCHITIS and INFLUENZA. Experiments
have proved that the most effective and economical treat-
ment for CATARRH and COLDS IN THE HEAD
is placing a few drops of made-up HEENZO up each
nostril, night and morning. To gain instant relief from
SORE and SMOKERS’ THROATS, gargle with
made-up HEENZO whenever the irritation is felt.
HEENZO, being pure and free from poisons or harsh
drugs, cannot upset the digestion of even the youngest
baby You can also rely on HEENZO as a safeguard
against catching the ills of winter chills by taking a dose
before venturing out into crowds, or cold, wet and windy
weather.
and THROAT
AILMENTS
9
ẁ
costs less
