

v% ox V Mg»
s s
*
««.R- *, \\s®*» ,c *
A*'* 1 \tj iie\® s cervix®
*'»®' CS f S erv>®® *° *•„,
*;; e V *;f
& *•;;?*
%\U *•?*•"'*'.
p\ctur e 9 ra^ anU U c ' ur
V/\re\e sS so »tcK*
V/\re\e sS Sta*» on
Broad c C sk V^°' 3 + *
The *' sK
/
WH! '- Wjw // / '// / ///
Tireless
At a a>. _
The Bulletin
Women and War
Vol. 60.—N0. 3118.
Wednesday, November* 15, 1939.
nmimi TnP rice 6d.|
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
tm!
UJJM
This Book .FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
___ __ CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
/lint) Illustrated Penmanship Prospectus explaining
,hr Muscular Movement System of Writing, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 139 • -
The Red Page
AUSTRALIA FOR EXPORT.
M. Barnard Eldershaw’s My Australia
(Jarrolds) is written for an overseas
audience, but anyone here who buys it
to send away will be tempted to sub-
stitute a Christmas card and keep the
book. England is welcome to the
familiar convicts, rum, wool, bush-
rangers, gold sequence; the Kisch
chapter could happily be sent off to the
South Pole to bore the penguins; but
the bulk of it, the splendid natural de-
scriptions, the packed information about
birds, beasts and fishes, the vivid
accounts of abo. ceremonies, the sound
prose with its occasional brilliant phrases,
are all too good to part with.
Here is “the long lovely stretch of the
lllawarra”:
Green hill follows green hill in smooth
and gentle shape, old fences with the wood
gone silvery and rough brown stone walls;
cabbage-tree palms dot the landscape like
notes in music, the slashed earth is a
bright, harsh red, the cows more often
than not are red. The farms are neigh-
borly, there is always the butter factory
somewhere about. The range stands over it
all, and long valleys into which the morn-
ing sun flows run towards it.
The Riverina;
In the paddocks there are all the tones
of sunburnt yellow, brown, sage-green;
an undercurrent of purple and mauve in
the soil, in dead bushes and timber.
Distant scrub and shadows are blue. Fal-
lowed land and lucerne crops make patches
of rich dark color and vivid green. The
wheat stands green and bronze. Sheets
of water in the dams shine like galvanised
iron, iron roofs look like water among
the trees.
Broken Hill caught in two sentences:
To-day a city like a metal plant, cosmo-
politan and isolated, hot, dry and rich,
has grown up on the range. It is tethered
to the world by two railway lines, one to
Sydney and one to Port Augusta, it lives
by engineering alone.
Sydney in one sentence:
A few fragments of its past tucked away
still in the shadow of concrete and steel,
the narrow, crooked streets of the first
settlement turned to canyons; one dramatic
crowded hill, King’s Cross, from which
a river of colored light flows down into the
city; its semicircle of crowded suburbs
fringing out into red brick and tiled villas
in quiet streets, and beyond again white
mansions among trees.
Into the 100 pages of the “Sun Across
Australia” section, the authors seem
to have crammed everything that is
beautiful or dramatic or curious in the
natural scene. Their geological survey
goes back 1,600,000,000 years; they
speak of the Ice Age, and then of the
herds of diprodotons and giant emus
that pastured beside the chain of lakes
that flowed into Spencer’s Gulf. There
is a list of trees, lifted by a few judicious
adjectives to something more like a poem
than a botanical catalogue.
A full account of the fauna, from the
kangaroo to the long-snouted honey
mouse; they might have found a better
phrase than “of a retiring disposition”
for the wombat —it’s a tag sacred in
journalism to distinguished old ladies
who collect pottery or stamps. All the
birds, down to the yellow-rumped tit
who builds a domed nest with two com-
partments, one for the eggs and the
other as a sleeping place for the cock.
The reptiles ; the insects “of which a
volume might be written but most of it
would be unprintable”; the earthworm
seven feet long who greases his burrow.
The fish; with a reference to the trout
in Tasmania followed, appropriately,
by a description of the bunyip—convey-
ing the impression that 25-pounders are
nothing uncommon.
And what about these “wolf spiders
that hunt in packs a thousand strong”
up at Cape York? The present com-
mentator, not knowing anything about
spiders except that they have long, hairy
legs and that it’s a nerve-racking thing
to hear them baying at the moon, re-
ferred them to the editor of “Aborigi-
nalities,” who said, “Of course you have
to shoot the leader, and then the others
will all stop and devour him while you
make your escape.” Anyhow, the authors
make one realise what a fascinating,
improbable continent this is ; and there
are spiders that bark.
The “Sun Across Australia” chapters
are so well done that they make the
rest of the book seem somewhat sketchy.
The facts are all there, neatly sum-
marised: but there is no life in either
the convicts or the goldseekers. Whaling
is barely mentioned. Both
art and politics are simi-
larly treated: competently,
but briefly.
In the political section
events such as the
attempt to prevent Kisch from landing,
the refusal to load the Dalfram
and the banning of 2KY, because
they are local and contemporary, have
been given a significance far greater
than they deserve. Moreover, it shouldn't
have been said that Kisch was not
wanted because of his ‘‘strongly anti-
fascist views.” He was not wanted be-
cause he was a Communist, and against
the vast background of Australia he’s
really of less importance than the yellow-
rumped tit. The Dalfram incident is
considered as an interference with liberty
of conscience: it might, however, have
been explained to an. overseas audience
that friendship with Japan is a prime
necessity for the security of Australia.
Generally speaking, the political tone
is Australian rather than “Left.” Gov-
ernment, they say with justice, “is con-
ceived as a means to an end and not
as an art.” They conclude: “The habit
of violence has never been formed. Pos-
sibly Australia’s greatest contribution to
civilisation has been the discovery and
use of constitutional means of settling
disputes and in carrying forward what
was in face of the world a prolonged
revolution.”
One last criticism of a good book is
that it ends with one of those fashion-
able exhortations, merely repeating
naively what is implicit in the vital,
imaginative picture of the continent the
authors have given: “We can live from
our own soil, we are one people. The
flourishing of our arts is the barometer
of self-realisation. We have our full
share of the essential things. Let us
go on.” That makes the third in the
last six months: Miles Franklin and
Dymphna Cusack in Pioneers on Parade,
D. P. McGuire in Australian Journey
and M. Barnard Eldershaw in My Aus-
tralia.
Short Stories.
Mazo de la Roche, the Canadian writer
who chronicled the doings of the White-
oak family, has a following that requires
to be supplied with crown edition, pocket
edition, cloth edition, leatherette edition
and set of her novels in a cardboard box.
Maybe her latest work, a collection
of stories about animals entitled The
Sacred Bullock (Macmillan), will appeal
to her readers. It can also be recom-
mended for the library of any loyal mem-
ber of the Tail-waggers’ Club or Cat-
lovers’ Society. It won’t appeal so
strongly to the Grand United Order of
Bullock Worshippers, because the bullock
of the title story, though otherwise an
admirable beast, is one of the book’s
few villains, goring to death in a Druidish
“abbey” a romantic young yokel who
had hung a chaplet of flowers round the
ungrateful animal’s head. One story
about an old maid and cats in a house
during a night thunderstorm has some
quality in it.
To Step Aside (Heinemann) is Noel
Coward’s first venture into fiction; also
short stories, of a kind absolutely certain
not to appeal to Miss de la Roche’s mul-
titudinous following. They’re as sophis-
ticated, as cutting, vigorous, vital and
realistic as the Canadian lady’s are un-
sophisticated, gentle, sentimental and
unreal.
There are seven stories in Coward’s lot,
mostly longish, sprawling and all giving
a savage depiction of well-chosen victims.
Perhaps the best in short-story crafts-
manship as well as in character depiction
and the breadth of its criticism —is an
extensive account of American week-end
house-party swilling and squabbling with
its theme implicit in the title, “What Mad
Pursuit?” Another rattling good one is
“Aunt Tittie” ; as craftsmanship an ex-
cellent job of first-person-singular nar-
ration ; a meandering but otherwise
sharply presented account of shabby
living in cheap French and other Con-
tinental music-halls and night-life res-
taurants, seen through the eyes of a boy
who does small vaudeville turns with
his immoral, gin-swiping Aunt Titania.
“The Kindness of Mrs. Radcliffe,” a
merciless study of a cruelly stupid,
domineering woman, is another good
enough to stir the hope that Coward
hasn’t merely stepped aside from theatre
to show that short-story writing comes
as easy to him as anything else. The
other four stories, without being up to
those, are still better than most that
get between covers.
Coward resorts to one easy but handy
trick for striking a note of reality—that
is, using the names of actual people and
institutions. An author has a serial run-
ning in the “Evening Standard,” some-
body has been to dinner with Marcel
Proust, somebody else has been with the
Prince of Wales. Under the mocking
veneer that overlays all his writing he can
get away with having a budding play-
wright referred to as “a second Noel
Coward.” Only a trick, but an effective
one, and surely as legitimate as the com-
moner one of sprinkling fiction with
foreign words —say, French, Spanish or
abo. —to the same end. Coward hasn’t
to do that: he conjures up local color as
easily as he stage-manages his char-
acters.
Among his strongest qualities is a wit
of word and thought with a beautiful
cutting edge to it. A tyro author making
notes in a train:
“Man in dining car with elderly woman,
obviously German.” He had later to
cross out German and put Scotch, as he
happened to hear them talking in the
corridor.
Or a Major Cartwright, who exudes
heartiness “chemically as a horse exudes
horsiness ; as a matter of fact, he exuded
a certain amount of horsiness as well.”
Or, “Once upon a time in a small fish-
ing village in Cornwall there lived a
devout and angry clergyman named
Clement Shore. He was an ex-missionary
and had a face almost entirely encircled
by whiskers, like a frilled ham.” Such
phrases as “a strenuously literary cock-
tail pafty” are so obtrusive as to give
an impression of writing cleverly lit up
with electric points.
Churchill's Three Years.
Winston Churchill seems to have pub-
lished his Step by Step (Thornton Butter-
worth ; F. W. Preece, Ltd.) mainly to
prove how right he imagines himself to
have been in everything he has prophesied
or advocated since the invasion of the
Rhineland in 1936. “It is a gratification
to me,” he says, “that his Majesty’s
Government have at length by leisurely
progress along their own paths of
thought adopted even in detail the policy
and theme set forth.”
The book is a collection of articles
reprinted from newspapers. In May,
1936, there was his “Stop it now!” de-
mand :
I can see only one thing. I see it sharper
and harsher day by day. Germany is
arming more strenuously, more scientifi-
cally and upon a larger scale than any
nation has ever armed before. I give my
warnings, I do not deal in vague state-
ments. I declared several months ago that
Germany spent upwards of £800,000,000
sterling oh warlike preparations in the year
1935 alone.
But his thinking, the articles show,
was as vague as his policy of immediate
war with Germany was precise. He
believed throughout that “the world”
would go crusading with him. In 1936,
after the Abyssinian affair had proved
the inefficacy of the League, it was still
Geneva that was to go to war with
Germany: “This is no task for Britain ;
no task for France; no task for the
Locarno Powers or any group of
Powers; it is a task for all. There must
be farsighted unselfishness sustained by
inexorable resolve.”
By the time of the Czechoslovakian
crisis the League was as dead as the
dodo, but “the world” was still going
to help Britain and France fight Hitler.
Considering the possibility of Czecho-
slovakia being invaded, he said, “I do
not believe that such a spectacle could
be witnessed impassively by the civilised
world.” Even in May this year the full
co-operation of Russia was to be
“accepted,” and the three “warlike
peoples” of Lithuania, Latvia and
Estonia were to join his grand alliance.
The book is chiefly effective as a
record of the tremendous events of the
past three years —the Rhineland, Austria,
Czechoslovakia, Poland.
One of Mr. Churchill’s various policies
hasn’t been adopted by his Majesty’s
leisurely Government. In October, 1937,
without mentioning Australia, he invited
America to join him in “taking risks” in
intervening in China.
A Mitey Traveller.
Mr. Edward (Ed) Streeter is a traveller
of some distinction. Since 1921 he has
travelled 216,000 miles, more than nine
times round the world. He has done it,
as he records in Daily Except Sundays
(Allen and Unwin; Angus and Robert-
son), going to work by train.
It has had its perils: the horror of
meeting an acquaintance and having to
talk to him all the way; the large man
who hogs three-quarters of the seat; the
woman who wants the window open ;
the man who sits behind him with a
newspaper and knocks his hat off; the
man who sits behind and wants to talk,
breathing on the back of his neck ; the
drunk who makes loud remarks about
him and then sits on him and goes to
sleep; there is the long fight against
impossible odds to recover a suitcase
from the Lost Property office ; there is
the protracted agony of having to stand
all the way home with half a dozen
parcels under his arm.
Mr. Streeter says he knew one com-
muter in whom the habit of carrying
something under his arm was so fixed
that always, when dining out, he would
shake hands with his hostess and then
look down quickly to see if he had
dropped anything.
Can America Prevent Frightfulness
from the Air?: J. M. Spaight (Bodley
Head). Pamphlet-size discourse on that
theme, suggesting that Uncle Sam should
issue a Warning. Your move, Sam.
Russia —Friend or Foe ?: Pat Sloan
(Muller, Ltd.). Britain should link up
with Russia and down Fascism. Thanks,
Pat; here’s your hat!
Eat and Grow Beautiful: Gayelord
Hauser (Faber and Faber). From the
publishers’ circular:
Dr. Hauser is America’s Diet Expert
Number One, and it looks very much as
though he would soon have equal power
in Europe; for Dr. Hauser visited England
and France recently and now reports that
the Duke and Duchess of Windsor have
adopted a special diet as prescribed by
him, which includes garlic, juices of
spinach, carrots and celery. “The Duke
and Duchess,” he says, “are probably the
most slender and healthiest couple in the
world.”
Dr. Hauser has for 15 years been expert
adviser on diet to the most famous stars
of Hollywood, as well as to many of New
York’s Four Hundred. His system of
Cosmetic Diet, based on long study of
chemistry and of the effects of various
foods and liquids, has been adopted en-
thusiastically in America and in many
countries of Europe. In addition to his
discoveries about solid foods he has in-
vented such famous beverages as “vitality
broth,” “anaemia chaser” and the “com-
plexion cocktail.”
The doc. appears to know his onions.
From Best-Sellers —Are They Born or
Made?, by George Stevens and Stanley
Unwin (Allen and Unwin):
Lytton Strachey’s Elizabeth and Essex
sold 76,000 copies in 21 days between pub-
lication date, at the beginning of Decem-
ber, 1928, and Christmas. The author’s
reputation, from Queen Victoria, was of
course one element in the situation, but
not the only one. Elizabeth and Essex had
been adroitly sampled by serialisation of
28,000 words in the “Ladies’ Home
Journal.” When the publishers submitted
the MS. to the editors of the magazine
a phrase popped up in the conversation :
“The love of the Virgin Queen.” This
motif helped to put the sale over, and,
wrapped in delicate suggestive phrases,
became the “angle” on the book.
Which is one way of making a best-
seller. In Gahd’s Own Country “all
books on Lincoln sell, all books about
dogs sell, and all books by doctors sell.”
Also: “There are plenty of books the
booksellers don’t like. Often a book goes
out in advance [to the booksellers] and
commits suicide.” Intending authors of
best-sellers should perhaps be warned
that this isn’t a book on how to write
such things, though they might get in-
spiration from gazing on record sales
listed —watching Anthony Adverse, for
instance, soar to 700,000-odd in 1934-37.
Its main interest is for publishers, so
unless it sells —as some books do —on its
title alone its sales in Australia should
establish a record low.
Speaking of best-sellers, they’ve had a
couple of extraordinary ones in England
recently. The official Blue Book—other-
wise entitled Miscellaneous No. 9 (1939):
Documents Concerning German-Polish
Relations and the Outbreak of Hostili-
ties Between Great Britain and Germany
on September 3, 1939, presented by the
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to
Parliament by command of his Majesty
—sold 20.000 copies inside three hours!
Total sales were expected to be anything
up to 100,000. Another fast-seller has
been the Hitler Calendar pamphlet pub-
lished by the “Times”—Hitler condemned
out ot' his own mouth per extracts from
his speeches (see “Uncabled Additions,”
B. 25/10/’39), with a “Times” leader
thrown in to drive the moral home.
Figures haven’t so far been given, but it
went through “four large printings” in a
week or so.


“THE SENIOR STORE.”
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”— business sincerity.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Telegraphic Address:
"Hordernia," Sydney.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address:
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
Flyproof Gauze Doors and Screens, constructed of best grade redwood timber. Ready to erect.
made to order in any required size. Fittings extra.
1
1
- • v -' . 5 ■ ~+
No. 7
ft. in. ft. in.
2 6x66
2 Bx 6 8
2 10 x 6 10
3 ox7o
Galv. Br'ze
18/9 25/9
19/6 27/-
20/3 28/6
21/- 30/6
No. 12
ft. in. ft. in.
2 6x66
2 Bx6B
2 10 x 6 10
3 ox7o
Galv. Br'ze
30/6 38/-
31/9 39/-
32/3 40/3
33/3 41/3
No. 14
Galv. Br'ze
ft. in. ft. in.
2 6x6 6
2 Bx 6 8
2 10 x 6 10
3 ox7o
27/3 33/9
28/3 35/~
29/3 36/3
30/6 37/6
m
No. 1
ft. in. ft. in.
2 6x6 6
2 Bx 6 8
2 10 x 6 10
3 ox7o
Galv. Br'ze
13/9 19/-
14/3 20/-
14/9 21/-
15/3 22/9
(}
it
1
t
'~Oka:
No. 2
ft. in. ft. in.
2 6x6 6
2 Bx6B
2 10 x 6 10
3 ox7o
Galv. Br'ze
16/- 24/6
16/9 26/6
17/6 28/6
18/3 31/-
ny 7
wi
■I
im.
■cj
Q
V
m
No. 6
ft. in. ft. in.
2 6x6 6
2 Bx6B
2 10 x 6 10
3 ox7o
Galv. Br'ze
21/- 25/6
21/9 26/6
22/6 27/6
23/3 29/-
r
ST’*'-
w
% ?•• #
. •/ «r*-*' $.
»\%.m
m
*mm
Beautify Your Home with BLINDS
We specialise in all styles of Verandah Blinds and Awnings. Choose from our comprehensive range of
multi-colored linens or ducks. Smart, crisp tones in the fastest dyes Shades of Orange,
Green, Fawn, Brown, Gold and Red, 72" wide. Anthony Horderns' Prices, yard .. 8/11, 9/11, 11/9, 15/9.
Block or broken stripe Ducks in Brown, Green, Red or Blue. 72in. wide. 14oz. Price, yard 7/11
Block or broken stripe Linen, extra heavyweight in Blue, Green, Red, Brown. 72" wide. Price, yard .. 9/11
White English Duck. Widths, ins. 36 54 72 White English Duck. Widths, ins. 36 54 72
12-ounce quality. Prices, yard .. 4/6 6/6 18-ounce quality. Prices, yard .. >5/11 8/6
15-ounce quality. Prices, yard .. 3/6 5/-- 7/6 21-punce quality. Prices, yard .. 6/6 9/6
Best long flax Navy Canvas. 72 inches wide. Price, yard 11/6
Heavyweight Flax Canvas. Width, inches 18 24 36 72
Prices, yard 2/3 3/3 4/3 8/6
All blinds are made in our own factory under expert supervision. Write for samples. Estimates Free!
FREIGHT NOT PAID ON BLINDS AND WIRE DOORS.
DELIVERED FREE ONLY WITHIN OUR DELIVERY AREA.
' 7
•ri&'sbJ.~*r*r*rr*Tf'r fr ?. , -?'--'::j:
- I ' l 0"f,
--- | y
rr'n'T'v •T/T.*^ , .''. , .~.-.- '.V .7•"•.• .7ft.- -" ;
r~rf^Tf.
| t~-
..,-,.. r A---
l^~
r -
-
T’tf
Wms l
V/
f""
sx
v,
\ ?
Made from faultless pine laths Jin. x |in. and linked with the famous "Aerolax"
Lock-link of 18-gauge galvanised mild steel. For all general purposes of
verandah protection this blind is ideal. It gives good privacy and the careful
regulation of air and light spaces between laths makes it the best for
general verandah use.
Widths, feet 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
4ft. 6in. drop. Prices 18/9 22/10 27/9 32/3 36/8 41/4 45/8
sft. 3in. drop. Prices 21/8 26/9 32/3 37/6 42/9 47/11 53/6
6ft. 9in, drop. Prices 23/11 30/6 35/10 42/6 47/11 54/6 59/10
7ft. 6in. drop. Prices 26/8 33/6 39/10 46/8 52/11 59/8 66/6
"LOOVALAX" LOCK-LINK BLINDS
The "Loovalax" Lock-links Blinds. Sturdy %in. x Vfein. pine laths linked in
louvre fashion and made for use on verandahs facing west and for sleep-out
only. Light-proof, wind-proof, rain-proof, and practically air-proof. These
features make this blind unsuitable for any uses other than those special
uses for which it is made —westerly verandahs and sleep-outs.
Widths, feet 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
4ft. 6in. drop. Prices 21/9 26/10 32/8 37/8 42/11 48/9 53/9
sft. 3in. drop, Prices 25/7 31/6 37/9 43/9 49/10 56/7 62/10
6ft. 9in. drop. Prices 28/11 36/7 43/8 50/8 57/10 65/6 72/9
7ft. 6in. drop. Prices 32/4 40/5 48/7 56/6 64/7 72/6 79/10
These prices are for Blinds painted Green or Brown, complete with cords,
pulleys, wire, brackets, screws and screw-eyes, for securely hanging and
staying blinds
SPECIAL NOTE. —A new and effective staying system (the "Aerolax" Rattle-
proof Blind Stays) is now supplied with each Blind.
Interior and Exterior
Venetian Blinds
INTERIOR ASPECT.—AII Venetian Blinds are
manufactured in our own factory from well
seasoned timber, painted any desired colour with
three coats of paint. Fitted with best quality
Carr's ladder tape and cord.
FOR INSIDE USE
Constructed of 2Vfe-in. laths at 1/9 per sq. ft.
Minimum charqe, 14 square feet 24/6
Constructed of 2-in. laths at 2/- per sq. ft.
Minimum charge, 14 square feet 28/-
Constructed of 13/4-in. laths at 2/1 per sq. ft.
Minimum charge, 14 square feet 29/2
Constructed of 1 1/2-in. laths at 2/4 per sq. ft.
Minimum charge, 14 square feet 32/8
FOR OUTSIDE USE
Constructed of 3-in. laths and supplied with iron
guide rods at 2/4 per sq. ft. Minimum charge
16 square feet 32/8
Or fitted with chain ladder tape at 2/8 per sq. ft.
Minimum charge, 16 square feet 37/4
Cover laths, 6d. per foot. Brackets, pair ... 9d.
V- -
law :
■
ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS LTD., SYDNEY
m
Drop-out Blinds
As illustrated. Width 6ft. over all
the brackets by 4ft. 6in. drop, to
project 2ft., made in multi-striped
Duck, finished with scallop. Price,
from £2/12/6
Other prices, together with samples
of materials, will be forwarded upon
receipt of sizes. Please give over-
all width, and also state the drop
required. It will be noted the
material will finish slightly less than
the overall width between brackets.


REBELLION
AT THE
BEANSTALK
BY FRANK MIDDLEMISS.
I SUPPOSE I am one of the oldest customers at
the Beanstalk. I can remember it when there
were prunes and things where now they have the
cash desk—long before they painted the furniture
primrose, when there were only Mr. Twemlow and
Miss Clack.
I lunched there first with Henry Settle, and some-
how kept on going, more as a matter of principle than
because I liked the food. Even now lam not in any
strict sense a vegetarian. I do not deny myself a fish-
ball on occasion ; nor does Louisa. I have never really
cared for their unfermented grape-juice or nut coffee.
My friends at the Beanstalk have always been among
the moderates —Henry Settle and Edwin Gentle,
Basil Pewkleigh and Leonard Sweeting, Arthur
Whinny, Alfred Polkinghorne, Walter Leamish and
Ernest Suckle; tp which, I suppose, as merpbers of
that circle, one must add George Pocock and Fred
Musk.
In particular Henry Settle. We have a common
interest, of course, inasmuch as he is in the Mutual
and I in the Polynesian ; but I have always liked Henry
—his buoyancy, his patent genuineness, his fund of
original idea. True, not all his projects have been
successful: take his Rational Dress League scheme,
for instance. I, for one, came to rue his inspiration.
That I can write without rancor of its outcome says
something for the character of our relations, the
quality of his charm.
How well I remember its launching—that
sizzling day in November when Henry turned up in
his topee. It was before the vogue of such headgear,
and there was a lull in the conversation as he picked
himself a peg and ordered a haricot roll.
“O.K. on the plantation?” rallied Musk.
But you could see that Henry was in no mood
for joking. With such earnestness, indeed, did he
enlarge upon the subject that by the time we reached
our sweets what had seemed a theme for jest had
engendered very serious debate.
We were certainly slaves to convention, con-
ceded Suckle.
Like sheep, agreed Gentle.
And somebody, possibly Pewkleigh, muttered
something about “guts”—not the nicest word, perhaps,
to use in Miss Clack's hearing, but significant of the
temper of our talk.
“That’s all it wants,” said Henry. “Guts. A
few fellows with enough courage to rebel against this
get-up. A nucleus who refuse any longer to swelter
in the styles their grandfathers dictated. Just a dozen
or so fellows of our way of thinking, determined on
something concrete.”
I think we were all a little startled at the swift-
ness of our enlistment, but Henry has a forcefulness
at times —a fanaticism almost, a fervor strangely in-
fectious. By the time we left the Beanstalk the thing
had taken shape.
A shape quite rudimentary compared with that
it afterwards assumed, but to my notion sufficiently
ambitious. Nobody, I hope, could charge me with
being pretentious in my dress. I have always been a
great one for my blazer or alpaca, but to present
myself at the Polly garbed as if for gardening or
tennis was not a prospect I regarded with any zest.
As it happened, tonsillitis temporarily prohibited any
such performance, and for the best part of a week
I never stirred beyond The Pines. Indeed, I had
almost forgotten our discussion when I arrived again
at the Beanstalk for lunch.
Suckle was sufficient to recall it: I had never
realised how unfurnished a man can look without
his neckwear, how oddly fowl-like is the structure of
the throat. Nor was he alone in his decollete —
Pocock, not content with discarding his jacket, had
slipped his suspenders from his shoulders, quite care-
less of the expressions of Miss Quibble and Miss
Clack. It was on my tongue to tax him on the sub-
ject, but something deterred me. Despite the ease of
their apparel, one was struck by their air of purpose.
Clearly Henry had not dallied with his scheme.
I caught only the tail of his remarks.
“Better leave it to the committee,” suggested
Sweeting. “What we’re after, I take it, is some
standard costume—something sensible, yet smart. It
seems to me we could safely leave it to the committee
—unless, of course, you had anything in mind.”
“As a matter of fact,” said Henry, taking a paper
from his pocket, “I’ve run out a bit of a sketch. Sort
of a jerkin, I was thinking.”
Sweeting was obviously startled and Gentle
mumbled something about his position as a florist to
consider. For my own part, I said nothing—l was far
too taken aback.
It’s just an idea,” said Henry: “it can be modi-
fied, of course. Anyway, the committee can consider
it—it might serve as the basis for a design.”
I don’t know in just what lies Henry’s fascina-
tion. In the glow of his fervor, things quite out-
rageous seem not unreasonable. Their first shyness
over, it was remarkable how quickly both Sweeting
and Gentle were disarmed. Even Polkinghorne was
presently enlarging on the foolishness of “just
fumbling with the thing.” For myself, I could only
picture Louisa’s protest: it was high time, I realised,
for a statement of my position. I spoke quite frankly.
I confessed that, whilst I was in sympathy with the
principles of the League, I was scarcely prepared to
attest them in the manner now proposed.
There was silence for a moment. With a sneering
expression, Pocock passed some remark to Musk.
Some remark about “squib” and “tonsils.” I eyed
him levelly. But for Henry’s intervention, I would
have retorted pretty sharply. Such questions, said
Henry quietly, were for one’s own decision. But
his tone, it seemed to me, was rather wistful, and
he ordered, I noticed, another portion of rhubarb
compote, so contriving that he and I were last to
leave.
“Such questions,” he repeated, his hand lightly
on my shoulder, “are matters for one’s conscience.
Heaven forbid that I should try to sway you, in any
way meddle with your scruples. None the less, Nor-
well, I should have liked to have you with us.”
Both words and manner touched me: it was the
first time that he had called me by my Christian
name. I don’t know, I say, in just what Henry’s like-
ableness reposes, but suddenly I knew that it was
not in me to refuse him—that I would indeed be with
them, be it for good or ill.
A S modified by the committee, the design was not
** unpleasing—a sort of blouse affair, not unlike a
sleeveless Norfolk jacket, to be worn with shirt and
shorts. The hat, of matching material, was no less
distinctive, partaking a little of what once was called
a trilby and a little of the type that people wear for
bowls. The stuff we had in mind was an oatmeal-
colored drill.
“Or even crash or linen,” suggested Henry as we
explained to the man at Farquhar’s just for what we
wished a quote.
The fellow looked dubious. The fact was, he
said, they scarcely catered for the fancy-dress
business —they mostly left it to the costumiers.
Henry gave him fuller details. The man
assumed a sort of smirk. He doubted if it was a
project with which Farquhar’s would quite wish to be
identified, he answered superciliously. He could put
it to Mr. Hubble if we cared.
“Don’t trouble,” said Henry curtly. “We’ll find
a firm more anxious for our trade.”
But in this he was mistaken. In only one case
were they positively uncivil, but the thing grew
tedious —the constant explaining, the abortive bobbing
up and down in lifts. Even the small shops seemed
quite unenamored of the contract. It was at one
next to a herbalist’s in George-street that we finally
put a period to our quest. A place so unpretentious,
one might have imagined, would have welcomed the
prospect of business, but in no case were we rebuffed
in terms so unequivocal and rude. What we wanted,
said the owner, was a dressmaker, not a tailor.
It was pretty galling, agreed Henry, but we might,
perhaps, do worse than follow the chap’s suggestion.
Which seemed at least debatable. It is not for me to
belittle the abilities of dressmakers in general—l can
only speak of our experience with Miss Pilk.
Certainly she was willing, and no doubt, as
Henry said, deserving; but, as Pewkleigh very perti-
nently argued, it was one thing to run up some night-
shirts for old Mr. Settle and quite another to turn
out a suit with some pretension to style and fit.
Nobody, as I say, could have been more willing
or agreeable. I can see her now, surveying what she
could never break herself off referring to as the
bodice—a sandy little woman, rather vivacious,
rather pinched as to the nose. I’m afraid she must
have thought me unresponsive, but her trick of talk-
ing with her mouth half-full of pins quite made my
blood run cold. Nor could I forget that, in a manner
of speaking, our relations were illicit. I would have
done better, I realise now, to have confided frankly
in Louisa. It would have saved me from shifts for
which I had little stomach, that I recall with anything
but pride. It was a relief to have done with the
fittings, to tuck the parcel safely in my lowboy be-
hind my winter vests.
Such a feeling was quite illogical, of course—
presently, I knew, when Miss Pilk’s Christmas rush
was over and the suits of the others were finished,
I must face the implications of my act. One evening,
when Louisa was at the pictures, I took the garments
from their tissue, put on the whole ensemble. The
spectacle left me sick and shaken. It was all I could
do to re-knot the string about their wrapping. In
that moment I saw it plainly—a wild and foolish
enterprise, upon which only the sheerest quixotry had
induced me to embark.
I was not the only one to be critical of the
abilities of Miss Pilk. As Suckle some days later
pointed out, it was a pity she could not have freed
herself from some of her fashion-book conventions—
he cared for neither the puffedness at the shoulders
nor the pinchedness at the waist.
The badge on the pocket, too, was the subject
of adverse comment. The flambeau, symbolic of pro-
gress, was another of Henry’s notions, but Miss Pilk
had had some trouble with the torches—they were
more like flaming radishes than torches, said Musk
in his forthright way. I was not the only one, i
patent, whom the sight of our livery had so er •
Polkinghorne seemed thoughtful and detached ,
Whinny plainly nursed a growing disaffection ; Pewlc-
leigh’s very volubility betrayed his ill-assurance.
There was a palpable cooling to the scheme: it ha
clearly reached a crisis from which it might no
recover. Even Henry for the moment seemed less
exuberant and sanguine.
It was not until the next morning that he was
to learn of his good fortune in the sweep.
I T was only fifty pounds, but, as Suckle very shrewdly
* put it, there were a lot of things you could do with
fifty pounds.
He’d say there were, said Leamish.
There certainly were, said Henry, and toyed for
a moment with his prune stones. “A lot of things,
he repeated. “For instance, you could fit out anothei
twenty members of the League.”
That his words were not facetious he very
quickly made apparent. Again he was all aglow
so fired with his purpose that all his resources could
have but one application. There is a largeness about
Henry at such times, a something somehow uplifting.
Polkinghorne had pushed away his sweets, was
nervously polishing his glasses. Whinny plainly
awaited an outlet for his feelings. Even Pocock was
getting obviously worked up.
“They needn’t even be members,” bubbled
Henry. “Hire them—-be worth it if only for a day.
Advertise. Local chaps—each of us a few in his
district. Pick ’em of one size—easier for Miss Pilk,
no fitting necessary, just serve them with their uni-
forms. Sort of army, just waiting for the signal.
Then one morning— bang ! ”
You almost heard them marching, converging on
the city. It was remarkable, quite irrational —I only
know that a thing which the day before had seemed
as good as finished was again in the fullness of its
vigor. Pewkleigh was already going into figures.
Suckle was trying to say something about “cells,” but
what with Gentle’s booming and Pocock’s stupid rap-
ping on the table I could get the merest smattering
of his sense.
Only Polkinghorne had not as yet spoken, and
suddenly his silence, the sight of him just polishing his
glasses, put a sort of snuffer on our noise. It was a
relief at last to have him find his tongue: “I can only
say, Settle,” and there was no mistaking his emotion —
“I can only say your gesture’s devilish sporting.”
And, signalling Miss Quibble, he bade her bring
fruit cup and tumblers. People were staring—you
could hear Mrs. Gumble in the kitchen in the hush.
Nobody ordinarily could call Polkinghorne imposing,
but there was something about him as he rose and
raised his glass to the ceiling. Instinctively we
shuffled to our feet.
“I give you, gentlemen,” said Polkinghorne,
“Henry Settle and the League.”
K yf INE was the Lane Cove sector. I was to meet
*VI m y party at the Quay—round toward Miller’s
Point, to be exact, outside the Crown and Bottle,
where I would see that they were properly apparelled
and pay them the balance of their fee.
I had passed a restless night. I awoke with a
vague foreboding, which quickly crystallised to a con-
sciousness of what the day portended. How desolate,
I reflected, was the place without Louisa, providential
as had seemed her sudden popping off to Scone. How
ordinary, after all, was this projected business of her
sister’s compared with other things impending —of
moment, no doubt, to Maud and Ewart Soper, but
with precedent even in the experience of the Sopers,
with certain calculable risks. How carefree seemed
all my previous awakings. The sun itself this morn-
ing seemed to lack its customary lustre. As well it
might, I perceived as I drew the curtain from the
window. A leaden pall enveloped the horizon. Al-
ready there had been a sprinkling of rain.
Just a sprinkle, but it presented me with a
question which it certainly behoved me to consider,
an aspect it were foolish to pooh-pooh. It was just
by such pooh-poohings that people found themselves
with quinsy. There was a loyalty due to Henry, but
I also had a duty to Louisa. Suppose I got pneumonia
—would the League compensate me for my sickness?
Would it make provision for my widow?
And almost immediately I was seized by the un-
worthiness of these communings: I seemed to hear
again Henry’s “I should have liked to have you
with us, Norwell.” And so he should, I determined ;
but I would take all reasonable precautions—l would
slip a mackintosh over my rig.
It was an uncomfortable crossing on the ferry. I
was glad to hear the clatter of the gang-plank, to get
out of range of the gogglings and sisslings, to be
jostling through the turnstile. It warmed me to a
purpose from which there was now no retreating.
Already my party might be awaiting the signal to
advance.
But I needn’t have hurried, I saw as I approached
the Crown and Bottle: the only signs of life in its
vicinity were some children playing hopscotch and
two council employees in chin-on-broom debate. How
placid, I reflected, was this backwater of the city’s
traffic. How somnolent: the most active figure was
that of a woman polishing the knocker of a neighbor-
ing residential; the only sounds were the rumble of
the bridge, the thin note of a trumpet in the distance,
of a person on a tricycle calling attention to his wares.
Fish, no doubt, or suchlike. A leisurely way of pro-
secuting business, oddly in character with that part.
But of Henry’s mercenaries, of the not very pre-
possessing product of my appeal in the “Lane Cove


Sentinel and Shopper,” I discerned as yet no vestige
And time was passing: the lady opposite had finishec
both knocker and doorknob; the person with the
tricycle, revealed now as a man of rather fei ret-
like appearance in a coat that might have been white
at some period of its existence, was parking his con-
traption on the kerb—deliberating, apparently, a call
at the Crown and Bottle, from the careful tally he
was taking of the contents of his pockets. An un-
savory sort of man, as I recall him, extremely brusque
and bloodshot in his speech. A man of the crudest
diction. If I wasn’t doing nothing for a minute, he
suggested, I might keep a so-and-so peeper on his
so-and-so bike.
And this I engaged to, perfunctorily as
the favor was preferred.
After all, I told myself, it would cost
me nothing to see that nobody filched the
fellow’s fish or whatnot. Or saveloys, pos-
sibly—or eggs and dairy produce? How
persistently sometimes a trivial question
piques one. There was some lettering on
the body of the arrangement, a symbol
doubtless pertaining to the character of its
contents. One might as well know the nature
of one’s commitment, I argued as I undid
my mackintosh and felt in my jerkin pocket
for my pince-nez.
It was a treat to throw open the folds
of gutta-percha, feel the play of air upon
my person. With some amusement I perused
the superscription—“ The Frozen Dewdrop,
Bert Buckley, Prop.,” surmounted by the
portrayal of what presumably purported to be a cone-
ful of ice-cream.
I would have been wise to have contented myself
with these inquiries—only an idle officiousness, some
talk of Pewkleigh’s of how the people’s food was
handled, moved me to peep at the stuff itself. A
stupid impulse—l had hardly got the lid off when I
was conscious of an audience at my elbow ; of a
snuffling, red-haired girl, with a smaller child in what
I think are called pilchers, who demanded an orange
sucker and a cup.
Not without a momentary confusion, I explained
that Mr. Buckley had been called away on business,
that she would have to keep her pennies for a while.
She eyed me critically—she was not a child I
took to, fond as I am of children in their place.
Clean, biddable children, with a modicum of wits. I
might as well not have spoken. She wanted, she re-
peated, an orange sucker and a cup.
She would have to wait a little longer, I in-
formed her with some sharpness—Mr. Buckley had
gone to buy a lemonade.
But the child was patently deficient, a parroting
little idiot; and in sudden exasperation, quite beyond
me to dissemble, I bade her hold her tongue and blow
her nose.
It was a stupid outburst, at once repented—no
purpose was to be gained by such browbeating of the
child. Nevertheless, I was in no humor to welcome
intervention, and especially in the manner of the
individual with the broom. The larger of the sanitary
persons—a great bullock of a fellow, of the utmost
uncouthness. His opening observation was offensive:
“Wot’s crawlin’ on yer, brother —pickin’ on a kid?”
Nothing, I hoped, I retorted; nor was I picking,
as he termed it, though I scarcely saw that the matter
was his concern. And with a displeasure I saw no
reason for disguising, I disclaimed again any con-
nection with the Dewdrop, explained the falseness of
a position of which I had more than had a fill.
He regarded me suspiciously.
“Plenty o’ mag,” he remarked in his uncouth
way.
“Reg’ler grammerphone reckid,” put in the other.
If it came to talk, I came back tartly, they could
ill set up as critics. Instead of gossiping on racing it
would suit them better to get on with the duties on
which they were ostensibly employed—for which, as
a ratepayer, I subscribed.
No doubt the shaft struck home. I didn’t quite
catch the smaller fellow’s comment —something about
“something to mag fer” and “fix the little squirt.”
The bullocky one, too, was plainly nettled, for all
his comic pose ; “Hoh, no, Hi don’t sell ice-cream—
that’s Mr. Buckley’s business,” he simpered, in what
I took it he conceived as my way of speaking. “Don’t
take no notice of me ice-cream clobber. Hi’m jus’
mindin’ Mr. Buckley’s tricycle.” And with a sudden
savage change to his normal manner: “A man oughter
dong yer! If youse don’t sell ice-cream, wot’s the
pitcher fer on yer pocket? Get ter Buckley out
of it, youse an’ yer bike!”
“ What's the idea , commodore?”
“One can’t be too careful with these pocket
battleships snooping around”
But even more disturbing than his words was
the menace, of his aspect, the sort of circling move-
ment of the man. As I said to Henry afterwards, it
would have been madness to argue. Goodness knows
how I managed to gain the saddle, make contact with
the pedals. It seemed an age before I got the thing
fairly moving. There was a ghastly moment when I
must have had it wedged against the gutter, when I
thought the wheels were locked.
WITHIN the limits of such a means of locomotion,
I suppose I must have developed a fairish turn of
speed. My most constant mental picture is of a little
chipped enamel basin and the bit of cigarette that
floated in its stoppings, and the two places on the
handle-bar where the nickel had been worn down to
the brass: two yellow patches a bit wider than my
knuckles —I seemed to have been looking at them for
years. And yet in a way it surprised me to find my-
self so suddenly at King-street—unquestionably
King-street, with the trams trundling up to Darling-
hurst, and Miss Whatshername’s at the corner where
Louisa gets her corsets, and —slap at my elbow, its
windows all plastered “Birthday Bargains” and
“January Savings”—Farquhar’s itself.
In the nearest window a girl was draping a silver
pyramid with scarves, and in the one beyond there
were rows of trousers on rails. Trousers, of all colors
and materials, with a card on a silver easel with some-
thing about “Playwear and Poise.” I remember
noticing them, and then elapsed a period of which I
simply have no record. I have no recollection of get-
ting from the bicycle—l just found myself in the shop.
The thing was the more remarkable in that I
seemed to have no legs. But for this momentary
numbness I might have picked my way less clumsily
past the vacuum-cleaner demonstration ; been more
conscious of the flex. It was to recover my equilibrium
that I clutched at one of the figures in the swimming-
suit exhibit. It was unfortunate that it should have
been situated in such proximity to the crystal. You
couldn’t blame the girl —she did well, in my opinion,
to save the lamp and rosebowl —but the clock was
just on inch or so beyond her. It made one feel quite
sick to see it tilt, then sort of totter and spill its entrails
on the floor.
It was an ugly situation. A woman near me
had fainted. “Good God! Miss Goodenough!” I
heard somebody saying. A largish man in a double-
breasted jacket was making purposefully toward me.
“One moment, sir,” I heard him saying; but I had
started for the door. “One moment, sir!” he re-
peated ; he was moving now at a tangent, and his voice
had a nasty note. Involuntarily my pace quickened.
There was coming over me again that feeling I had
felt about the sanitary person —another minute and he
would have had me running.
And then I saw the lift.
Quite empty, apparently. It was not a time to
be deterred by the sign “Staff Only”—I had barely
banged the door when I saw him round a pile of
blanket specials. But already the picture had dwindled.
The mere closing of the door had set the thing on
the move.
That is what I dislike about automatic lifts —
the way they sort of take things on themselves. At
the best of times I find them disconcerting. The little
disk affairs confuse me —I seem to lose all power of
decision. The way they sort of twitter. There were
several of them twittering, but we went to the top
floor first.
Not without some black looks on the way—at
the fourth especially (I got to know the fellow pres-
ently, in a composite sort of a fashion: a rather
pouch-eyed man, as I remember him, whom one
would think twice about provoking), but we pro-
ceeded to the top floor for a start. A matronlike
woman was there —she seemed surprised to see me but
annoyed when I disappeared. The pouch-eyed fellow,
probably, or maybe some interference at the third —
the mechanics of the business I confess are quite
beyond me. Whatever it was the matron had it
countered ; and then of a sudden we were again de-
scending. The pouch-eyed fellow! But now we were
almost at the first. The chap in the double-breasted
jacket! It was a pretty frightful sensation, getting
lower and lower. I could picture him waiting, he and
Miss Goodenough—gloating. It was at this point that
I decided to press some buttons for myself.
Goodness knows how long the nightmare business
lasted, when I became aware of some collusion
between the floors. An air of expectancy —phrases:
“Better get Mr. Fitch” . . . “bring him to his senses”
. . . “Fitch’ll fix ’im” . . . and then the whole ghastly
purport from the matron to a freckled girl in glasses:
“They're fetching Mr. Fitch —he’s going to turn off
the power.”
Instinctively, I suppose, I had kept to the higher
levels —I don’t know wnat inspired me to press the
basement button now. I don’t know why the base-
ment should have been outside the scope of the com-
motion. Or might it be just an ambush? But it w r as
no time for dawdling, for weak-kneed vacillation.
In a flash I had the door open, in a flash I had it shut.
For a second I stood irresolute. Not a soul —just
packing cases and suchlike, and the sound of someone
hammering in the distance, and a smell of straw and
hessian and linoleum —linoleum, some as big as drain-
pipes ; one big enough to admit a man of smallish
habit.
They came down presently, made a rather cursory
inspection ; the double-breasted fellow seemed inclined
to prowl about and linger. I pushed the sacking from
the opening when he went; it made things a little
easier. I think I must have dozed: it seemed much
later when I became conscious again of the hammer-
ing, and presently of its cessation and a rather foul-
mouthed youth commenting on the nature of his
lunch. From this point I seemed to lose all time sense.
I suppose it could have been only a matter of some
five hours before there came a final period to the
hammering and sounds indicative of closing—splash-
ing, skylarking and suchlike, and all the unedifying
trivia with which packers relax from their labors, and
at long last the banging of a door.
* It was in one of the packers’ suits of dungarees
that I gained the precincts of The Pines. I love The
Pines by moonlight, but there had never quite so
flowed through me the quiet beauty of the place.
There was a Vienna on the doorstep, and on the mat
inside a wire from Louisa: “Two boys—all three
splendid.” It was hard to realise —everything the same,
just jogging on as usual. I stood for a moment
by the hallstand examining my reflection. Should I take
a tot of Louisa’s horehound? But I simply tumbled
into bed—l didn’t even bother with my teeth.
I F it weren’t for Henry I would probably give up
l the Beanstalk. I have always liked Henry —his
patent honesty, his utter lack of petty subterfuge and
sham.
It was disappointing, he confessed next day at
lunchtime, that only one of his hired party should
have kept to his appointment and he in such a con-
dition as to bring no credit on his clothes. Nor had he
himself been too successful —Mr. Chuffy, his chief, had
shown himself both narrow and officious, prohibiting
quite flatly the attendance at the Mutual of any person
in what he had designated comic-opera dress. For the
rest, said Henry—the extraordinary incidence of acci-
dent and sickness that had kept at home all other
members but myself, it was just bad luck.
It was certainly extraordinary, 1 observed —in fact,
almost past belief. That on a single day, and on that
day of all days, Musk should have had malaria, the
Pewkleigh boy a mishap with his scooter, old Mrs.
Suckle one of her seizures, the child Leamish the symp-
toms of diphtheria, Sweeting (or was it Whinny?) ’flu,
Pocock synovitis
I suppose it was rather childish, but I was feeling
pretty bitter —certainly not in a mood to take much
mag from Pocock. As I said to Henry afterwards, for
two pins I could have donged the little squirt.
Peripeteia.
I that made you of dreams and dust,
Surrendering, because men must,
All that life can call his own
To ease the fury of the bone,
To bend and school the wanton will
That hankers after stars, until
Man’s being cries for agony
At banishment below the sky:
I have but found myself a new
Star to hitch my fancies to,
And now my dreams will not be stayed
From worshipping the thing I made.
N.S.W.
S. MUSOROVE.


*
ROYAL
PURPLE.
P.AR^k
•*
j
p ..:.v. ...■ :
' ■ ■
H
nBBSBBBSSKtmSmKBKt
:
ISJ'k-.-?* j?§!r. ' ' "' '<■-■■■ *' ' P>,
' P '
lip ; &&g ifel fMItJSf w~ 4 j
:
Sp'P;
v
...
ms
mm
v-:
&,„' 'h v*
'
~: ... .■..:■ ■ • .;.
iiMßf
5*
m
WM
, i
mrngmamk
iiMu
i kk mmsMM
n
. IL#
I,s fl^Bili»itiigli
n
■
- V ; .:- : : -
i •
* ;
Photograph by “Antoine’"
RIVETTE
By RONSARD —RIV. Bay Mare, 6 Years
WINNER OF THE MELBOURNE CUP, 1939
MR. H. BAMBER, Owner-trainer
Jockey, E. PRESTON
Wnr.MT. 7st. 91b.
Timf 3min. 27scc«


SLOGANS WHILE YOU WAIT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane■.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Ams.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques .)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas ( Foreign ):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
WOMEN AND WAR.
The enfranchisement of women will be tested in this
war as never before.
In the last war women had the vote in some of
the Dominions and in the United States, but not in
Britain. The defeat of conscription in Australia was
ascribed to the women’s vote, and two facts were
adduced as evidence: (1) Conscription was carried by
substantial majorities (53,185 in 1916 and 37,594 in
1917) only in the State (Westralia) with the greatest
relative preponderance of males, and (2) it was de-
feated by majorites still more substantial (117,739 and
146,518) in the State (N. S. Wales) responsible for the
production and circulation of “The Blood Vote”
verses. A copy of those verses, adorned with a draw-
ing of a conscience-stricken matron poising a “Yes”
paper on top of a Conscription Ballot-box, a foul fiend
lurking in the shadows, was placed in the hands of
every N.S.W. female voter, and the agony was piled
on in this fashion:
But the case was never determined by the examination
of ballot-papers, and it remains unproven.
In the United States the song “I Never Raised
My Boy to Be a Soldier” had a great vogue among
feminine electors in 1915 and afterwards, and Wood-
row Wilson may have had this in mind when he said
“There is such a thing as being too proud to fight.”
The first woman member of the House of Representa-
tives voted against the war resolution in 1917, conclud-
ing her speech in a flood of tears. However, the
nation had then become hot for war, and pacifist
feminism retired to obscurity.
In Britain women voted for the first time at the
post-Armistice election of 1918, which resulted in the
return of a “Hang-the-Kaiser” party, composed in the
main, as a cynic said, of “hard-faced men who looked
as if they had done very well out of the war.” Only
ladies who owned to being 30 and upwards then had
the suffrage. Not till 1929 was it conceded to women
of 21. In that year crusty old gentlemen augured the
worst from “the flapper franchise.!’ Certainly a Labor
Government arrived immediately, with a pacifist Prime
Minister who loved to figure in newsreels “presenting”
Briand and Scheidemann shaking hands, and with a
programme of naval economies—two 10,000-ton
cruisers, four destroyers and four submarines were
struck off the naval programme for that year—and the
League of Nations Union at once became a power in
the land. Women were the principal supporters of its
“sanctions” policy and its Peace Ballot, and their delight
was boundless when “the covenant of the League”
became “the cornerstone of British foreign policy.”
In England, Wales and Scotland alike, women
greatly outnumber the fighting sex. In England and
Wales there were in 1937 27,948,139 names on the
Parliamentary Register: 14,772,288 belonged to
women and 13,175,851 to men. Figures for Scotland
—rather more remote—were 1,669,240 women and
1,498,614 men. In the United Kingdom there are
615 electorates, and in only about 60—among them
12 university divisions—are men in the majority. The
Prime Minister, the Secretary for War, the First Lord
of the Admiralty, the Chancellor of the Exchequer and
practically all their colleagues in the House of
Commons sit for predominantly feminine con-
stituencies.
For Englishwomen this war began with an experi-
ence such as their sex had not to endure in 1914-18,
trying for all and tragic for many as other experiences
were. In London and other cities exposed to the peril
of bombardment from the air, hundreds of thousands
of mothers were straightway separated from their
children. In four days, as the Minister of Health has
put it, “750,000 unaccompanied children, 542,000
mothers with young children, 12,000 expectant mothers
and 77,000 other persons were entrained and moved 50
to 100 miles without a casualty.” A wonderful feat
of organisation, but dreadfully hard on the mothers
left behind.
No doubt Hitler will try to prolong such separa-
tions —pitiable to all but the enemy—by every means
in his power. Very possibly—being a German wowser
who fancies himself another Cromwell —he has de-
rived false impressions of British womanhood from a
study of the pictorial press, with its staple illustration
—a brazen minx posing in the nearly-nude—and its
exaltation of the film actress as the noblest work
of God. Very probably he hopes that fear and
war-weariness working in the mind of the woman
elector may do more for his cause, such as it is, than
the power of arms. This may explain his uncanny
delay in launching a land campaign and his apparent
intention of concentrating his attacks on Britain —
hitherto aimed to a large extent at the British breakfast-
table —to the exclusion of France, where women can-
not bring pressure to bear on members of the Chamber
of Deputies, since they are without the vote. If so, his
reading of the British character is at fault once more.
Whatever the faults of British foreign policy
in the past, the nation in a grave hour deliberately
chose the heroic part, relying on the fortitude of both
sexes. And whatever hardships and sufferings it may
be called upon to endure, there is not the slightest
ground for fearing that the women will weaken.
“Why is your face so white, Mother?
Why do you choke for breath?”
“O I have dreamt in the night, my son,
That I doomed a man to death.”
“Why do you hide your hand, Mother,
And crouch above it in dread?”
“It beareth a dreadful brand, my son;
With the dead man’s blood ’tis red.
“They gave me the ballot paper,
The grim death-warrant of doom.
And I smugly sentenced a man to death
In that dreadful little room.
“I put it inside the Box of Blood,
Nor thought of the man I’d slain,
Till at midnight came like a whelming flood
God’s word—and the Brand of Cain.
“O little son! O my little son!
Pray God for your Mother’s soul
That the scarlet stain may be white again
In God’s great Judgment Roll.”
Diplomacy in Berlin.
Two official documents of extraordinary interest
touching on this extraordinary war have been
issued by the Britism Government in the form of a
Blue Book and a White Paper. They describe the
diplomatic game as played in Berlin, with war —and
now the lives of who knows how many million men,
and women and children, too —as the stake.
It is a strange story that these documents together
bring into the light. There is little of the coolness
and detachment commonly associated with the diplo-
matic game. The play is often angry, hot-tempered,
acrimonious. The players come out as all too human.
There is one rocklike figure—the British Ambassador.
Twenty thousand copies of the Blue Book were
sold in London within three hours of publication. It
has passages that might cynically be considered to
assist it as a best-seller. One conjures before the
reader a voluptuous display of naked ladies, with an
improving moral. Others may be regarded by polite
minds as exceedingly coarse.
The ladies were shown to Sir Nevile Henderson
by Field-Marshal Goring as anti-climax to an angry
discussion. The business of diplomacy done with, the
Field-Marshal insisted on showing off the “great struc-
tural alterations” to his house. These included
a new dining-room to hold an incredible number of
guests and to be all of marble and hung with tapestries.
He also produced with pride drawings of the tapestries,
mostly representing naked ladies labelled with the
names of various virtues, such as Goodness, Mercy,
Purity, etc. I told him that they looked at least pacific,
but that I failed to see Patience among them.
The correspondence is from Sir Nevile Hender-
son to Lord Halifax; already in that fragment of it
the characters of two figures in this curious story
fairly clearly emerge. The meeting described took
place on May 27, when the deterioration towards war,
begun by Hitler’s grabbing of Czechoslovakia on
March 15, was gathering momentum. Three times in
this one letter to Lord Halifax the British Ambassador
refers to the “wild men” of the Nazi party. He told
Goring that, “by yielding to the advice of his ‘wild
men’ and deliberately annexing Bohemia and Moravia,
Herr Hitler had not only broken his word to Mr.
Chamberlain, but had infringed the whole principle
on which the Munich Agreement rested.”
Goring’s reply was
an attempt to prove that circumstances in 1939 were
different from those in 1914, that no Power could over-
come Germany in Europe, that a blockade this time *
would prove unavailing, that France would not stand
a long war, that Germany could do more harm to Great
Britain than the latter to her, that the history of
Germany was one of ups and downs, and that this
was one of the “up” periods, that the Poles had no
military experience, that they were not and never had
been a really united nation, and that, since France and
ourselves could not, and Russia out of self-interest
would not, give them any effective military assistance,
they would be taught a terrible lesson.
That was in May. As far back as that the game
of diplomacy as played in Berlin had become one of
butting heads against brick walls. No resilience is to
be noted in either the walls or the heads.
One of the most widely accepted legends of the
1914-18 war is that Germany would never have
attacked Belgium and France if Britain’s position in
regard to such action had been made perfectly clear
in advance. That has always had a hollow ring to
it; but, anyway, Britain was determined that there
should be no such excuse this time. While Mr.
Chamberlain and Lord Halifax were declaring that
Britain would unhesitatingly fight if Germany em-
ployed force against Poland, Sir Nevile Henderson was
impressing the same determination on “wild men” and
others.
He told Baron von Weizsacker, State Secretary
at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, that
It was solely because they [Lord Halifax and Mr.
Chamberlain] doubted whether Herr Hitler was cor-
rectly informed on this point that they continued to
reiterate their determination to resist force with force
in future. If Herr Hitler wanted war, it was quite
simple. He had only to tell the Danzigers to proclaim
the reattachment of the Free City to Germany.
Patience appears here to be getting on tiptoe ready
for flight. The Baron, after an outburst, replied:
Why did his Majesty’s Government insist all the
time upon these public utterances? If something had
to be said to Herr Hitler, why could it not be said
privately without all the world being kept informed ?
That had been the mistake last year during the Czech
crisis. Public warnings only made it more dimcult ior
Herr Hitler to heed them- ,
On points such as those can hang the lives oi
millions! Sir Nevile: “I confined myself to replying
that one of our main causes for anxiety in England was
our belief that disagreeable facts were withheld from
Herr Hitler by those who were responsible for mak-
ing them known to him.” In August the Ambassador
was to overcome this particular difficulty, though with
no favorable outcome.
Obstacles were at first put in the way of his seeing
Hitler and delivering to him a letter from the Prime
Minister, the main points of which were:
(1) That his Majesty’s Government were determined
to fulfil their obligations to Poland; (2) that they were
prepared, provided a peace atmosphere was created, to
discuss all problems affecting our two countries; and
(3) that during the period of truce they would welcome
direct discussions between Poland and Germany in
regard to minorities. _ .
On the way to Berchtesgaden Sir Nevile “derived
the impression that the atmosphere was likely to be
most unfriendly and that the probability was that the
interview would be exceedingly brief.” “In order to
forestall this,” he began the conversation by stating
that he wished to make some preliminary remarks.
We had guaranteed Poland against attack and we
would keep our word. Throughout the centuries of his-
tory we had never, so far as I knew, broken our word.
We could not do so now and remain Britain.
He records that Point 2 “was not referred to and
apparently did not interest” Hitler, who was “excitable
and uncompromising.”
He violently attacked the Poles, talked of 100,000
German refugees from Poland, excesses against Ger-
mans, closing of German institutions and Polish sys-
tematic persecution of German nationals generally. He
said that he was receiving hundreds of telegrams daily
from his persecuted compatriots. He would stand it
no longer, etc. I interrupted by remarking that while
I did not wish to try to deny that persecutions occurred
(to Poles also in Germany) the German press accounts
were highly exaggerated. He had mentioned the castra-
tion of Germans. I happened to be aware of one case.
The German in question was a sex-maniac, who had
been treated as he deserved. Herr Hitler’s retort was
that there had not been one case but six.
Next came tirades against “British support of Czechs
and Poles” and against “England, whose friendship
he had sought for 20 years only to see every offer
turned down with contempt.” “I contested every point
and kept calling his statements inaccurate, but the
only effect was to launch him on some fresh tirade.”
“Most of the conversation was recrimination.”
Herr Hitler observed, in reply to my repeated warn-
ings that direct action by Germany would mean war,
that Germany had nothing to lose and Great Britain
much; that he did not desire war but would not shrink
from it if necessary; and that his people were much
more behind him than last September.
That was August 22 ; next day it was on again. This
time “Herr Hitler was quite calm and never raised his
voice once.” He mentioned, however, that “he was 50
years old: he preferred war now to when he would
be 55 or 60.”
In referring to the Russian non-aggression pact he
observed that it was England which had forced him into
agreement with Russia. He did not seem enthusiastic
over it, but added that once he made agreement it
would be for a long period.
At a subsequent meeting at which Ribbentrop was
present Sir Nevile Henderson “made the entirely per-
sonal suggestion that M. Beck and Herr von Ribben-
trop should meet somewhere and discuss the way out
which alone might save Europe from war.”
Herr Hitler’s reply was that he had invited M. Beck
to come and talk the matter over last March, only to
have his invitation flatly refused. The only intervention
by Herr von Ribbentrop in the discussion was to con-
firm this and to say that M. Lipski, who had had to
convey this message, was obliged to put it in other
words in order to soften the abruptness of it.
That statement was quickly capped by Hitler:
He mentioned that Herr von Ribbentrop on his
return to Germany from Russia had had to fly from
Konigsberg over the sea to avoid being shot at by the
Poles, who fired at every German aeroplane that flew
over normal routes across Polish territory. He also
said there had been another case of castration.
“Various other points mentioned by Herr Hitler”:
That the only winner of another European war
would be Japan; that he was by nature an artist, not
a politician, and that once the Polish question was
settled he would end his life as an artist and not as
a warmonger; that he did not want to turn Germany
into nothing but a military barracks, and he would only
do so if forced to do so; that once the Polish question
was settled he himself would settle down; that he had
no interest in making Britain break her word to Poland;
that he had no wish to be small-minded in any settle-
ment with Poland, and that all he required for an
agreement with her was a gesture from Britain to indi-
cate that she would not be unreasonable.
All this was getting nowhere, and meanwhile
relations all round and tempers on the spot were
rapidly deteriorating. On the evening of August 28
Sir Nevile Henderson was again threshing the straw
with the German leader. Sir Nevile declaimed that
Our word was our word, and we had never and
would never break it. In the old days Germany’s word
had the same value. I quoted Bliicher’s exhortation to
his troops: “Forward, my children. I have given my
word to my brother Wellington, and you cannot wish
me to break it.”
Herr Hitler at once intervened to observe that things
were different 125 years ago. I said not so far as Eng-
land was concerned. He wanted, I said, Britain’s friend-
ship. What value would he place on our friendship if
we began it by disloyalty to a friend?
Sir Nevile insisted that “it was now or never, and
it rested with Herr Hitler.”
Herr Hitler said that he had to satisfy the demands
of his people, his army was ready and eager for battle,
his people were united behind him, and he could not
tolerate further ill-treatment of Germans in Poland, etc.
Again next evening, the interview this time “of a
stormy character and Hitler far less reasonable.”
Result, worse than nil. Next day, Ribbentrop ; assur-
ing that “wild man”—wildest of all—that “his
Majesty’s Government had constantly warned the
Polish Government that all provocative action should
be vigorously discouraged.
Herr von Ribbentrop replied that his Majesty’s. Gov-
ernment’s advice had had cursed (“ verflucht ”) little effect.
I mildly retorted that I was surprised to hear such
language from a Minister for Foreign Affairs.
This was the interview in which Ribbentrop, “in
the most viodlent terms, said that he would never ask


the Polish Ambassador to visit him” and hinted that
if the Polish Ambassador asked him for interview
it might be different.” Ribbentrop s ™ hol * d ™™™ r r
during an unpleasant interview was aping Herr H
at his worst.” It was the occasion on which he pro-
duced “a lengthy document which he read out in
German aloud at top speed, and which the British
Ambassador gathered was in the nature of.an ulti-
matum to Poland. That Ribbentrop denied, saying
that “the idea of an ultimatum was a figment of my
imagination.” Ribbentrop became otherwise abusive,
and declined to hand over a copy of the document;
a Pole had not flown from Warsaw to receive it, and
it was now too late.
There was a sequel to that at another interview,
when it tragically was too late. Sir Nevile reported:
As I was leaving Herr von Ribbentrop gave me a
long explanation of why he had been unable to give me
the text of the German proposals two nights ago. I told
him his attitude had been, most unhelpful, and had
prevented me from making a last effort for peace.
The foregoing is all from or based on the Blue
Book. In the White Paper Sir Nevile refers repeatedly
to the heat in the discussions. A suggestion of his “was
strenuously and heatedly denied by Herr Hitler ; a
“gratuitous impugnment of the humanity of his
Majesty’s Government and of myself provoked a
heated retort on my part,” and “the remainder of the
interview was of a somewhat stormy character ; Rib-
bentrop
kept leaping from his chair in a state of great
excitement, and asking if I had anything more to say.
I kept replying that I had, and, if my own attitude was
no less unfriendly than his own, I can but say in all
sincerity that I had every justification for it.
In plain Australian, they did their blocks.
In all these meetings the personal element was
clearly a deciding factor. They were clashes of in-
compatible characters, temperaments and purposes. It
is poor consolation to know that, when this violent,
vainglorious game of diplomacy as played in Berlin
was over, the last fatal move made and all the damage
done, Herr von Ribbentrop was “courteous and polite”
to his Majesty’s Ambassador.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Munich Bomb.
Before he started the war, Hitler nominated as suc-
cessors (1) Goring and (2) Hess. The precarious job
nearly became Goring’s on Wednesday night, when
a time-bomb, secreted in an empty attic over the
Munich beer-hall which is a holy place to Nazis,
exploded, bringing down the rafters on the audience
of hand-picked Nazis and killing nine and injuring 61.
Hitler was to have been among the victims. He
had left the hall only a few minutes previously, after
delivering a frenzied speech against England. He cut
it short and departed before the arranged time.
Nazi newspapers blame England for the outrage,
as did Napoleon when a bomb was thrown at the
then First Consul’s cavalcade in the Rue Saint Nicaise,
Paris, in December, 1800, as it was on its way to the
theatre. But only professed Nazis could have got ad-
mission to premises, jealously guarded always, on such
an occasion —the annual celebration of the Hitler
putsch in 1923. It is as plain as a pikestaff that the plot
was a German plot against the German leader, and the
plotters must have been privy to all his movements
and intentions, save only the curtailment of his
harangue. An alternative theory, and it seems fan-
tastic as well as horrible, is that the bombing was the
work of Hitlerites, and that friends and secret foes
alike were foully murdered by way of consolidating
Hitler’s power and putting the nation in the mood for
accepting the long-delayed lightning-war.
According to Famous (and infamous) Correspon-
dents, the lightning war was to have been launched
at the week-end by way of Holland. Something must
have gone wrong.
“If the diatribe had been prolonged for another
30 minutes, the author of the war might well have
lost his life.” Thus “S. M. Herald” in an article which
must have staggered the Union Club. The Wild
Woman of Hunter-street proceeded in the same strain:
Hundreds of millions of people will dwell with no
uncertain feelings upon that contemplation. Assassina-
tion is an ugly political weapon, but it is one that
Hitler and the highest Nazi officials have not scrupled
to use.
That sort of writing cannot possibly advance a good
cause. Assassination is a political weapon which the
people of the British Commonwealth disdain to em-
ploy. They abandoned it centuries ago, and this is one
of the things on which they can fairly pride them-
selves, and which have won for them the enduring
respect of other peoples. In the abolition of assas-
sination, slavery and private war they led the world,
and it may be their proud destiny to deliver the world
from the recurrent disaster of war itself.
Six Superfluities at Canberra.
The superfluous Premiers went to Canberra for more
Loan Council palavers in their familiar belligerent
mood. They had stated their “loan requirements,”
£28,000,000 for the current year, and they were not
going to accept a pound less. If investors were reluc-
tant (as investors are) the national Government and
the Commonwealth Bank Board would have find
some other way of meeting the “requirements.”
The Commonwealth Government had “failed to
maintain effective liaison with them on matters of
mutual interest.” It hadn’t consulted them about
“Commonwealth actions that overlap State functions.”
They were ready with “a barrage of criticism” that
would cause it to shiver and go at the knees. All this
before the superfluous Premiers seated themselves at
the Council table. „
Mr Dwyer-Gray, the Tasmanian Premier with-
out portfolio,” was the most belligerent of all. Mr.
Dwyer-Gray demanded “an extension of community
credit through the Commonwealth Bank of at least
£3O 000 000.” Craven souls might object that it would
mean inflation. “Absurd,” said the Premier without
portfolio. “Merely psychological fear. We need a con-
structive finance policy, not a constricting one. And
“other Premiers,” among them Mr. Mair, ot Sycl-
ney, also a Premier without portfolio, “took quite as
definite a stand” —or so they said.
But the belligerence was already oozing out of
the gentlemen, and as the week wore on they became
quite tame. The Prime Minister humored them to
the extent of promising that they would not be asked
to cut authorised loan expenditure for the rest of the
financial year, but told them that there must be a
substantial reduction next year, and that they would
have to make their arrangements accordingly. Mean-
while there would be an immediate increase of defence
works on which unskilled labor would be employed,
and the services of their Works Departments would be
availed of.
As for public loans, there would be no more in
1939, it having been decided to wait until the time for
going on the market was more propitious—early next
year perhaps. The Commonwealth and associated
banks would meanwhile provide a short-term loan of
£10,000,000 at 3± per cent, for defence and other works.
The superfluous Premiers by this time were
strangely submissive. Perhaps they had become sud-
denly conscious of the rising tide of public indignation
at their provincial arrogance, their headlong rush
towards bankruptcy and the proceedings of their tame
and tired “Parliaments,” which, in N. S. Wales at
least, have reached the point of sanctioning robbery
of the taxpayers under forms of law. They must have
learned that the Victorian Taxpayers’ Association had
taken a straw vote of businessmen which showed a 75
per cent, majority for abolition of State Parliaments.
One of the Premiers “without portfolio” was aware
that abolition organisations are active in Sydney, that
abolition is to be put to the vote at the annual con-
ference of the N.S.W. Local Government Association
and that the representatives of the Bourke, Coota-
mundra, Armidale, Bulli, Sutherland, Mascot and
Shellharbor councils will be for it. And all the super-
fluities know too well that the one-Parliament move-
ment will grow.
The Maoriland Way.
Members of Maoriland Governments are expected to
work for their salaries, and they do. The Savage
Administration has been angrily criticised on the score
of its financial and industrial measures, but it has never
lacked energy. Australians, cumbered with seven
Governments, have had cause to admire its proceed-
ings since the outbreak of war, which have been far
in advance of anything seen on this side of the Tasman.
And Britons who remember how the Minister of
Finance was cold-shouldered in London while “credits”
were being lavished on questionable foreign friends
may observe them with some compunction.
Before Mr. Savage fell ill he was Minister of
External Affairs, Native Minister, Minister for the
Cook Islands and Minister in Charge of the Broad-
casting, Native Trust, Legislative, Electoral, Audit
and High Commissioner’s departments. Mr. Fraser,
his chief lieutenant, was Minister of Education,
Minister of Health, Minister of Marine and Minister
in Charge of Mental Hospitals, the Inspection of
Machinery Department and the Police Department.
As acting Prime Minister, Mr. Fraser’s duties were
greatly increased. When he was summoned to
London last month to attend the conference of British
Commonwealth Ministers, his portfolios were tem-
porarily distributed among four of his colleagues,
Messrs. Mason, Armstrong, Parry and Webb.
So Mr. Mason is now Attorney-General, Minister
of Justice and Minister in Charge of the Public Trust,
Patents, Designs, Trade-marks and Copyright offices,
of the Prisons and Registrar-General’s departments
and of the Department of Education. Mr. Armstrong
is Minister of Immigration and Minister in Charge of
Housing, State Advances, Health and Mental Hos-
pitals. Mr. Parry is Minister of Internal Affairs,
Minister of Marine and Minister in Charge of Pensions,
the National Art Gallery and Museum and Govern-
ment Advertising. Mr. Webb is Minister of Labor,
Minister of Mines and Minister in Charge of the
Printing and Stationery Department and of the Police.
Very different from the position in Tasmania
(population 240,000) and in New South Wales, each
of which States has to support a Premier without port-
folio for merely provincial matters. Tasmania has
seven salaried Ministers as well. New South Wales
has a Treasurer, an Attorney-General, a Minister of
Justice, a Minister of Health, a Minister of Lands, a
Minster of Agriculture, a Minister of Education, a
“Colonial” Secretary and a Minister of Mines and
Forests. And all salaries were raised in October, 1938,
being dated back to the first of July, as also were the
salaries of 90 members ; and that during a year of an
enormous deficit (enormously understated), the salary
grab having immediately followed the promise of a
surplus.
On the face of it, Mr. Nash does three times as
much as any N.S.W. State Minister. Mr. Nash is
Minister of Finance, Minister of Customs, Minister
of Stamp Duties, Minister of Marketing, Minister of
Socal Security and Minister in Charge of Land and
Income Tax, Public Service Superannuation, Govern-
ment. Life Insurance, State Fire Insurance and of the
Census apd Statistics Department. The average Aus-
tralian State Minister doesn’t know what work is.
"A Splendid Big Surprise,"
Sydney “D.T.” says its “Sunday Telegraph” will con-
tain “a splendid big surprise for readers”—l6 pages
of comic cuts in color. It won’t be much of a surprise
to readers to learn that the “D.T.” is importing more
Yankee stuff for the edification of child minds on the
Sabbath, but it will be a splendid big surprise to the
black-and-white artists who are scratching for a living
in Sydney if “this great new venture produced with
a deep sense of responsibility” ever gives Australian
talent a chance.
For a start the 16 pages are even to be printed
in America. Printers have been assured that as soon
as the machinery can be installed the supplement will
be produced in Australia. But by that time the Yankee
strips may be an established feature.
There are roughly 250 black-and-white artists try-
ing to make a living in Sydney; there are a dozen
reputable art schools; Sydney Technical College turns
out about a thousand art students a year. Artists
have already to contend with syndicated features from
America ; papers whose sense of responsibility ex-
tended to Australian art—the Sydney “Mail,” for
example —have gone out of existence; other papers
have had to curtail their expenditure, and the war’s
had a bad effect on commercial advertising. How-
ever, the 16 sparkling pages from the land of noo-
trality will be “bright in color and bright in spirit.”
Australian artists don’t ask, as they might, that
the Yankee strips should be shut out altogether because
they undermine the Australian culture. But they do
ask that wealthy newspapers should allow Australians
to compete with foreigners ; and that can only be
done by the imposition of a protective tariff on
syndicated matter.
"Information"?
Following Britain, as usual, the Menzies Government
decided to establish a “Ministry of Information” headed
by Mr. Gullett. Mr. Gullett chose the Curator of
the War Museum as his departmental head, and then
went in search of “a man with ideas. Judging by
the length of time it took to find one, such men are
as rare and wary as the purple-spotted okapi of
Africa. Mr. Gullett eventually found a good one in
Charles Smith, managing editor of the “West Aus-
tralian,” who was lent for three months by his com-
pany, which is paying his salary.
There followed a series of meetings to which
large numbers of city people were bidden by letter and
telegram, the object being “to assemble the various
activities represented into groups, with headquarters
in Melbourne.
Each group to form a small committee, each com-
mittee to be a point of contact with the State’s executive
officer and make known to him the type of information
in the widest sense it would be prepared to distribute
through its publications or in the form of leaflets,
pamphlets, films, etc. The department will undertake to
supply the material.
Speaking at the Sydney meeting, Mr. Gullett inti-
mated that Information would collect and present
“the truth and nothing but the truth.” Dr. Bean,
supporting Mr. Gullett, said that truth was a greater
weapon than bombs or shells and the day would come
when Information might be the real Defence Depart-
ment. The president of the friendly societies men-
tioned that working men found it hard to believe what
they read in the press. Thereupon representatives of
Great Newspapers were noticed leaving the hall in a
hurry.
At the end nobody knew what kind of intelli-
gence Mr. Gullett intends to issue or what exactly
he proposes to do. If his idea is to make Information
the sole channel for the dissemination of Government
news, neither Ministers nor press nor public are likely
to tolerate such an arrangement. The Prime Minister
broadcasts every few days, the military have their own
liaison officers and departments and boards spout
propaganda by the yard —most of it destined for the
dustbin.
Parliament should not vote the money for this
new department until it is satisfied that the thing will
be really useful and not just another costly encum-
brance.
The Brisbane Council Controversy.
The writer of the article that started it (B. 1/11/’39)
replies to Lud Mayor Jones (B. 8/11 /’39):
Mr. Jones is “surprised that a journal of your standing
should have read one side of the Brisbane City Council question
only and perpetrated the gross misstatements made by our
opponents.” The only “opponent” quoted was Mr. Hanlon,
the Labor Minister of Local Government, speaking on the
City of Brisbane Financial Emergency Bill on October 24.
According to Mr. Jones, his council’s “difficulties” are
traceable “almost entirely” to the fact that it has been
unable to borrow £700,000 of the £1,000,000 for which approval
was given by the Loan Council in July, and his City Fund
deficit was “mainly caused by the war.” And it is not his
fault that when he took office the council already owed
£17,410,000 and had to pay 6 p.c. interest on American loans
“borrowed by our predecessors.”
A naive statement the last when it is remembered that
a Ministry of which Mr. Jones was a member initiated
American borrowing in Australia —after failing to get m
London what The Bulletin then termed “the biggest peace
loan ever asked for in one lump by any Australasian State,
even the most populous.” Financial misfortune seems to dog
Mr. Jones through his public career.
The City Fund was blasted, not by the war, but by
general extravagance; and the failure to get “accommodation
was due, not to Commonwealth hostility, but to the distrust bred
by that extravagance. Melbourne City, Melbourne Tramways,
the Victorian Grain Elevator Board, the Sydney Water Board
(whose borrowing and spending have frequently been criticised
in The Bulletin) and the Sydney County Council have all
raised money while Brisbane’s Lord Mayor has been enact-
ing the part of Japhet in search of a Kind Uncle. At the
sight of the wandering Lord Mayor underwriters put on their
running-shoes. .
An “opponent” could be quoted—Nimmo, M.L.A. He
says that the council’s loan indebtedness exceeds the unim-
proved value of city land, and that it has been trying to dodge
the inevitable with overdrafts and temporary Government
advances. But Mr. Hanlon’s testimony is sufficient. t That
Labor stalwart closed his speech with these remarks: ‘ Since
the council seems incapable of doing the organisation which
is necessary... .the Government will see that it is done.
The only pity is that it was not done many years ago.”


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Bo”: I heartily endorse General
Blarney’s retort to critics who poke fun
at recruits’ uniforms. Tom’s contention
is that with good food and exercise
recruits will fill out parts that now hang
loosely. My tailor has long trained me
in this method of fitting. I remember
the last 12-guinea suit he made me ; the
waistcoat wrapped round me one and
a half times, and I had to button it up
the back. I pointed this out to him.
“Thash all ri’, ole boy,” he said ; “don’t
let li’l’ thing like thatsh worry y\ Jush
tear into porterhoush an’ oystersh an’
stout every day for few years an’ it’ll fit
y’ like glovesh!” No doubt there are
cranks who fear that 20-mile route
marches with full pack up and other such
exercises will tend to make recruits
stringy, but I have great faith that good
old army stew and plum-and-apple jam
will do their work so well that very soon
recruits will look as if they’ve been
poured into their tunics and allowed to
set.
“Tich”: These complaints about the
fit of army uniforms leave me cold.
When in 1915 I hit Casula (N.S.W.) camp
along with other raw recruits to the wel-
coming chant of “You’ll Miss Your
Mother!” we paraded and were handed
out our clobber. I went sft. 3£in. ;
weight 7st. 121 b. The uniform the Q.m!
tossed me would have hung loosely on
Jack Johnson. I asked him for a
change. He gave a swift appraising look
and hurled another at me. This time it
would only have fitted Les Darcy; still,
it was improving. Two more tries and
the best I could get would have had
Tivoli audiences in shrieks had I wan-
dered on to the stage in it. Desperate, I
made the necessary tailoring changes
with the cook’s tomahawk and went on
parade. One glance at the frayed edges,
and the black-browed S.M. nearly passed
away. Paraded before the 0.C., I had
visions of the death penalty, or, worse
still, discharge from camp. But the
twinkle in his eye belied the roaring up
he gave me, and I breathed again. A
note to the regimental tailor fixed things.
But if any 1939 recruit adopts these
measures, don’t blame me if he gets 14
days’ C.B.
* * * *
“H.”: There have been political
aspirants in N.S.W. who were re-
garded as scornfully as the Leg.
Council candidates referred to (B.
8/11/’39). “The Only Jones” (a para-
phrase of his self-description as “the only
independent candidate”), who put his oar
into every election for 20 years, ran the
gamut from 74 votes down to three—
that at Glebe. But poor Pulsford, who
scored one vote when he put up for
Waverley, was one of the tragedies of
politics. He may have been a joke to
the 12 electors who signed his nomination
paper and failed to vote for him, but
he was a law student of more than usual
“Go an ask the Thompsons if they'd join us for cocktails at five.”
ability and a good logical speaker. His
mistake was in allowing himself to be
nominated for an electorate that was
practically a “pocket borough” for
“Tomato” Jessop. Pulsford couldn’t get
over the shock of his contemptuous rejec-
tion, and died three months after the
election.
* # * »
“Ente Marid”: Something of the
family air of simplicity which prevails in
British diplomacy peeped through in
Nevile Henderson’s dispatch describing
the departure of the British Embassy staff
from Berlin:
The whole party consisted of 30 men,
seven women and two dogs.
I well remember my first contact with
British diplomacy abroad. I arrived at
one of the smaller legations in pouring
rain and was promptly asked to lunch by
the Minister, whose wife at that moment
stepped into the room. “My dear, our
friend is coming to lunch,” said his Ex.
‘Well, don’t forget to bring any socks
you need darning,” said her ladyship.
You won’t get any darning done other-
wise in this city, and my daughters are
very good at it. And you’d better send
your laundry to us. We are the only
people who know how to wash clothes
in Ruritania.”
* * * *
“B.d’A.”: “Dash o’ Bitter” may still
blow the froth off a pint at one of his
old early Sydney pubs (B. 18/10/’39).
The Agincourt, on the Harris-George-
streets corner, still carries its old name,
Turon, in cement letters on the parapet
—not the only pubbery in Sydney that
has had two or more monikers. Henry
Goodwin, who built and owned it, also
had a coachbuildery at the back, and in
the early ’nineties, along with some of
his handicraft, he sent an outsize photo-
graph of the pub and adjacent shops to
the Chicago World’s Fair with the title
“The largest coachbuilding works in the
Southern Hemisphere.” Tom and Dan
Fitzgerald, for whom Harry Goodwin
was building circus wagons at about that
time, gave him the notion.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A.’s latest official marriage
statistics show a distinct maturity in wed-
dings, the average being fairly constant at
just under 30 years for men and 26 for
women. On the other hand, there were
last year three bridegrooms of 16, and
eight brides under that age. The average
was pulled up by eight men over 75 (one
of them 85) and six women over 70.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland’s Centennial Ex-
hibition at Rongotai, a Wellington suburb,
is miles an’d away the most impressive
show of the kind the Dominion has
staged, and the Fernlanders’ experience
with exhibitions is extensive. On April
27 last year the first peg was driven on
a site that consisted of a playing-ground,
a rubbish dump and some acres of sand
dunes. It took eight months and cost
£60,000 to level the land. Then came
the erection of 14 acres of buildings.
This consumed 8,000,000 feet of timber
among other materials, and cost the best
part of a million and a half. Like all
public works in Maoriland these days, it
was a rush job, completed in 88 days.
Rest of the time has been, spent in
decorating and furnishing. The big
features —after the Dominion Court, of
course —are the Australian, Canadian and
British courts, and supplementing these
and lesser national exhibits are all the
world’s latest in side-shows and switch-
backs. Visitors speak highly of the
enormous murals in the Australian Court,
the work of William Dobell and Douglas
Annand, of Sydney.
* * * *
“D.E.”: On at least one day in the
year wireless broadcasting completely
justifies itself, and for the time being
obliterates unlovely memories of Russian-
alliance professors, strident commentators
on the “news behind the news,” blood-
curdling serials, screeching sopranos, hill-
billy ballads and “swing.” Melbourne
Cup Day, of course. Before wireless
came along the only part of the nation
that didn’t have to wait more or less
tediously for the result was the part for-
tunate enough to be at Flemington. For
the rest it was a matter of hanging round
pubs, newspaper officers or barbers’ shops
until a telegraph boy brought the 1-2-3
wire. For outback punters, the lines
being chock-a-block with messages, it
often meant a waste of hours, and days,
weeks, even months might elapse before
a paper containing “a full account of the
race” reached the village or station.
Nowadays the full account is brought to
millions within reach or hearing of a
receiving set, and they know how their
wagers have fared before the riders have
weighed in. Cup afternoon has become
a great social occasion, and even the
Law is sensible of the changes that the
innovation has wrought: in Sydney a
Police Court hearing was adjourned while
the race was on and a Quarter Sessions
case for the rest of the afternoon. And
the spoken descriptions are very well
done very much better than by the
8.8. C. gentlemen who attend to the
Epsom Derby and the Liverpool Grand
National. Naturally little oversights
occur. Last year one vocal reporter
omitted Bourbon from his placings ; in
at least one account this year there was
no mention of Ortelle’s Star after she
parted company with her jockey. The
knowing mare kept going without a rider,
sneaked up on the rails and beat the
winner by a neck —a performance which
doubtless satisfied the intelligent animal
and which, made the subject of a slick
bit of word-painting, would have given
an additional thrill to every listening
bushman.
* * * ♦
“Tramp”: Charge your glasses and
drink to the merchant sailor, real hero
of this war. Airmen go forth to battle
like eagles, with the song of the engines
to inspire them and the adulation of the
public ringing in their ears. The soldier
fights with an equal chance of beating
his enemy. Men of the Royal Navy
sweep the seas in armored craft possessed
of great offensive power. The merchant
sailor goes forth knowing that his enemy
is hidden and sly, that the blow may
come anywhere and any time. He has
little or no chance of hitting back, there
are few cheers for him, there is no aura
of gallantry round his rusty old tub. His
is a very essential job, performed with-
out display or color, as dangerous as any
other job in war-time, but with few
rewards. Let there be no heel-taps.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: Gazing on some of
this season’s flapper bathing suits it
occurred to me that manufacturers are
losing big chances. The standard de-
signs will provide all too little variety
in tattoo. Some of the maidens will
come out brown to the shoulders,
white in front for a few inches,
then brown merging into another
white band, with brown understandings
at the lower terminals. The extreme trans-
parent net affairs should give a freckled
effect as if the damsels were recovering
from measles. Why not a few with stencils
in A.I.F. badge or air-force designs or
cut-outs to provide leaf camouflage,
Union Jacks across the spine or eat-more-
butter signs across the frontispiece? Mr.
Gullett should certainly have a bathing-
suit department which would attend to
beach propaganda. There would be no
better way of getting the slogan “To Hell
with Adolf” over than by painting it
across an enticing female midriff.
* * * *
“Mayo”: Besides representatives of
two old Trafalgar families at the Nelson
celebrations in Sydney there might easily
have been actual possessors of Nelsonian
blood. History records that when the
family of his daughter Horatia, who
married a clergyman named Ward, was
grown, two of the sons migrated to Aus-
tralia.
* * * *
“Astra”: The rather uncommon sight
of a line-up of the five planets visible to
the naked eye may be seen at dusk these
November evenings. When, as it will
in a week or so, Mercury drops below
Venus, they will be seen in their order
of distance from the sun —a sight rare
as a blue moon. At the moment Venus
is low in the west, Mercury a little above
her, Mars is almost overhead, with
Jupiter and Saturn tailing off to the east.
Antares, the giant red star (so called to
distinguish him from Ares or Mars), is
also in the line-up, a little above Mer-
cury in the west. All the bodies are
above first magnitude, and cannot be mis-
taken as they span back from the west
along the apparent path of the sun.
* * * *
“T.T.”: Another possible complication
over succession to a title (B. 25/10/ ’39)
was brought up in the House of
Lords. It arose out of a claim by Lord
Sinha, son of the first Indian made a
peer, to a seat in the Lords. The Lord
Chancellor, in announcing the decision
of the Committee of Privileges, pointed
out that, while the present Lord Sinha
is the legal heir of his father, who had
only one wife, Hindu law permits
plurality of wives. Thus in the case of
an Indian being a member of the British
peerage and having several wives, his
son by a second or even a third wife
might be his eldest and claim the right
of succession to the title —a contingency
for which the English law of heirship
makes no provision.
COMPULSION.
Plans for determinedly opposing the reintroduc-
tion of compulsory military training have been
made by the Federal Labor Advisory Committee.”
There’s something in that little word “com-
pulsion”
That gives us sturdy souls unpleasant shocks,
Fills us with uncontrollable revulsion
And sees us do our blocks.
It’s true we don’t consistently eschew it
Or find it something to condemn and spurn;
Up to a certain point we’re apt to view it
Without the least concern.
We never get in what are known as waxes,
Or register annoyance at the rule
That people should be made to pay their taxes
And send their kids to school.
And when the Legislatures are elected
Objections from our side you’ll never note
At any pains and penalties directed
To making persons vote.
We do not tolerate in our communion
Blacklegs or dissidents. A worker’s pot
Is on if he neglects to join a union,
Whether he likes or not.
But, oh! to force a youth to some tuition
In what may fit him to defend his land,
That’s an inequitable imposition
For which we’ll never stand.
The bare suggestion of it sets us yelling
Dissent intensive and defiance flat:
Whatever other species of compelling
We readily accept without rebelling,
We draw the line at that!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Like me to explain ’ow she Works , Dig.?”
“Nagheer”: A recent public statement
by a Brisbane Communist orator leaves
me with misgivings as to whether the
revolution is going to be all it’s cracked
up as in the freedom line. “Comes ther
reverlushun, cumrads,” he announced,
“an’ yer’ll all be stoppin’ at the best ’otels
an’ the flamin’ kapitterlist publicans
won’t be grabbin’ yer ’ard-earned wages
fer yer tucker an’ yer drop o’ beer.
Comes ther reverlushun an’ yer’ll all
’ave feather beds ter sleep on like the
rich ’as now.” A voice spoke up from
the small audience. “Not me—’ate
feather beds. Makesh me shneeze all
night.” The orator gazed at him scorn-
fully. “Comes ther reverlushun, cum-
rad,” he said menacingly, “you’ll flamin’
well ’aveter like feather beds —or else
keep yer flamin’ trap shut about wot yer
likes an’ wot yer don’t.”
* * * *
“S.”: Even the art of picking the
bumper from the pavement has its re-
finements. Watched a ragged gent., eyes
to the ground, shuffling along George-
street, Sydney, and saw him quiver as he
sighted his quarry. But there was no
vulgar swoop at it; he walked on a step,
his handkerchief fluttered to the pave-
ment, covering the cigarette-end; and
when he gathered it up again the fragrant
object went with it into his pocket.
* * * *
“Politesse”: There was a smile in a
Sydney courtroom one day last week
when an elderly and shortsighted com-
plainant in an assault case, asked to
identify his assailant, peered all round the
court and finally came to rest at the
person in the dock, remarking “Ah, that’s
the gentleman.”. Characteristically Eng-
lish, though it happened in Australia.
Recalls the legend, oft-recited in Devon,
that when Drake, at bowls and about to
trundle one down, was hailed by a
spurred and dusty messenger with the
breath-taking news that the Armada was
in sight, he didn’t even take his eye off
the kitty, but remarked equably: “Well,
even so, the good souls must wait their
turn.” Whereupon he let go and scored
a toucher. Hate-propaganda seems to be
wasted on such a breed.
* * * *
“T.”: Sydney is to have another Sun-
day paper. The enterprise is a sequel
to, though not inspired by, the one-round
fight between eminent newspaper pro-
prietors which enlivened Derby Day at
Randwick, and publication seems to have
been accelerated by the shindy. The
young gentleman behind it has also an
old crow to pluck with the managing
director of another Sunday sheet, with
whom he had a brisk public controversy
touching the circumstances in which the
other party paid him and an associated
ex-politician enormous compensation for
not going on with a penny paper. It
is proudly announced that Famous
American Correspondents and Eminent
British Politicians and Novelists will
spread themselves over the new expres-
sion of Australian sentiment and that
there will be “sixteen pages of comics.”
Thus the New Journalism marches on.
* * * *
“Pardon Me”: “Jake” (B. 1/11/ ’39)
is certainly not of Australian origin. The
Oxford Dictionary says it is U.S. slang,
probably from the name Jacob (abbrev.
Jake), meaning a rustic lout. Presumably
a rustic lout is a very self-satisfied sort of
cove, and hence “jake” comes to mean
“couldn’t be bettered.” Mark Twain, in
Huckleberry Finn, uses the term “these
country jakes.”
He * * *
“Dick Tafone”: Canberra will need
all its superiority-complex to avoid hear-
ing the low-brow guffaws
over its mathematical
break in a recent Public
Service exam, paper. Its
pundits required candi-
dates to find three con-
secutive numbers whose
product was 21,914. As
no such mathematical
animiles exist, they hand-
somely withdrew the ques-
tion, explaining that the
figure really should have
been 21,924, and the
answer required 7307,
7308 and 7309. Now they
are faced with an accusa-
tion of not knowing the
difference between multiplication and
addition because if it really was a
product that they were asking for, and
not a sum, the answer should have been
27, 28 and 29. But why prospective
clerks should be required to perform
such useless parlor tricks in figures, only
Canberra in its wisdom knows unless
they are looking for new blood in the
Puzzle branch of the Taxation Depart-
ment.
* * * *
“Ala”: It’s going to be difficult, but
the general Australian notion that Maori-
land is a far-distant sister-Dominion only
to be reached by a more or less painful
voyage across the world’s stormiest
ocean —a voyage lasting anything up to
five days —has got
to be scrapped.
Thanks to Tasman
Empire Airways
Auckland and Syd-
ney have been
brought within
eight hours’ travel
of each other —just
about half the time
that is taken on the
rail journey from
Sydney to Mel-
bourne. The eight
passengers who
booked for the
first regular flight
(Acting P.M.
Fraser among
them) embarked at
Auckland in the
early morning, had
an excellent break-
fast and lunch
aboard, and landed
at Rose Bay early
in the afternoon.
Those who were
week-ending had
Friday afternoon
and evening and all
Saturday in Syd-
ney, re-embarked
at 4 a.m. on Sun-
day, and were back in Auckland in time
for lunch, actual flying time being 7hr.
56min. The clipper flew as steadily as
a rock, the noise of her four great engines
was described by passengers as a “muffled
monotone,” the standard of travelling
comfort was higher than that given by
any railway.
* * * *
“Cambridge Gulf”: There was an
infant-food SOS episode (hitherto un-
disclosed) in the adventurous career of
Kingsford Smith. Wyndham in 1929
depended for fresh milk on the lacteal
gland of the goat, dairy cows being non-
existent. The wife of a local Common-
wealth official was rearing her first baby
when supplies of tinned infant-food cut
out, with no boat in from Fremantle
for a couple of weeks. And to compli-
cate matters further the lusty young Aus-
tralian resolutely declined to be fobbed
off with the juice of the goat. The father
appealed to an official of an oil co. He
wired to Mascot asking Smithy, who
with Ulm and others was just about to
start a flight to England, Wyndham first
stop, to bring a good-sized tin of that
particular infant-fodder. Obligingly
Smithy consented. But the infant went
hungry—for that was the flight that ended
with the Southern Cross down in a
swamp in the West Kimberley.
* * * *
“Atrax”: Australia’s crude birthrate
for 1938-39 was, at 17.6 per 1000 of
population, slightly the highest since
1931 and well above that, on last avail-
able figures, of Great Britain, France,
Norway, Sweden, Belgium or Switzer-
land. Births outnumbered deaths by
53,964, but even with the 120,415 new-
comers to the national cradle we are
still short of actual parent-replacement
numbers by many thousands of Aus-
tralia’s Best Immigrants. Nine sets of
triplets, 1239 of twins, and 5094 ex-
“By heavens , Prendergast , I think you're right!”
nuptial infants were amongst those
present. One birth was a twentieth child,
another the eighteenth of the family.
Average age of brides in the 62,411 mar-
riages was 25.9 years, of ’grooms 29.5,
but brides of 82 and 12 and happy young
husbands of 14 and 88 are included. The
66,451 deaths averaged 9.65 per 1000 of
mean population, the highest since 1921.
Heart disease accounted for 23.3 p.c. of
the total, cancer for 11.9 p.c. Twenty-
eight were centenarians, the oldest a
Victorian of 105.
* * * *
“Kerys”: Mention of the Billy Book
and the effect its humor had on the
countryside (B. 8/11/ ’39) recalls a
Bulletin of years ago that contained a
Norman Lindsay page entitled “A Farm-
yard Scandal,” in which the social lapses
of a “fast young pullet” were limned.
In a Maoriland country hospital one
quiet morning the air was suddenly rent
by yells of mirth. Matron listened atten-
tively. The uproar came from the opera-
tion ward, and she rushed out to demand
what was afoot. There she discovered
two agitated young nurses trying to sepa-
rate a patient from a pink-clad magazine,
to which he grimly hung while 'nearly
helpless with hilarity. Other patients
seemed in even worse condition, and the
horrified matron realised that some of
them required actual surgical attention.
Two of the worst cases were immedi-
ately hauled off to the theatre to have
rent stitches reinserted. The Bulletin
was confiscated and suppressed.
* * * *
“S. Pieler”: In Sydney’s Glebe the
other day a pretty little free-for-all de-
veloped between rival s.p. merchants and
their offsiders. In no time 30 or 40
combatants were mixing it in good old
Aussie style boots, bricks and dooks.
Then some nark had to shoot off a gun
and down came the Law. The fighters
became runners, and within a few minutes
you couldn’t have backed Mosaic for
love or money.
* * * *.
“Efexo”: The organisation of a Mili-
tary Pay Corps by the Defence Depart-
ment recalls the formation of a similar
corps in 1914. The final selection of each
member of the corps was the duty and
responsibility of the former chief
accountant. This gentleman undoubtedly
had some strong prejudices, which he in-
dulged in making his selections, but only
on one occasion did he give any hint as
to their nature. Several young men pos-
sessing excellent accountancy qualifica-
tions and of good general education were
turned down. The only clue I could
suggest to applicants was that the old
gent, had been recently gazetted an
honorary colonel, and it might be as well
to stand to attention all the time they
were in his presence and say “sir” on
every possible occasion. One particularly
well-qualified man presented himself,
stood rigidly to attention, said “sir” at
almost every second word. But when
he had left the room the chief snapped:
“I won’t have that chap: he’s got a lasci-
vious mouth!”
* * * *
“Exdig”: Billy Hughes’s popularity
with the Diggers had its genesis in a
stroke of political genius. When in 1918
Australian troops who were out of the
line were paraded in square to listen to
a few words from the P.M., they counted
him out. Billy was surprised and shocked.
He must have thought very quickly as
he held up his hand appealing for silence
until cries of “Give him a chance, Dig-
gers!” brought a lull. He opened with
“I know you men have grievances, and
I am here to have them remedied.” Then
he outlined a scheme: soldiers were to
write to him about their grievances, the
letters were to be allowed to go to him
sealed and uncensored ; if grievances
were legitimate, and could be remedied,
they would be remedied. The Diggers
who had counted Hughes out finished by
cheering him ; letters poured in—4o,ooo
were dealt with ; and when the Diggers,
by rectifications of little matters every-
where, realised that Hughes was fulfilling
his promise Billy became “the little
Digger.”
POLITICIANS.
When I was young I nursed a vague ambition,
Given the opportunity, to try
To serve my country as a politician
(And possibly a statesman by-and-bye).
But each succeeding year I get the impression,
However indispensable they seem,
That those in this particular profession
Are held in less esteem.
A cushy job, with no examination
Or any sort of test to pass before
You’re qualified—and the remuneration
Becoming regularly more and more,
A pleasant trade that youthful fancy shapens
Into a glam’rous game, these politics!
But now, you can’t but note, the more the
ha’pence,
The deadlier the kicks.
Time was a certain aura hung about them,
Stout souls with leather lungs and iron jaws.
We didn’t know what we should do without
them
Sitting in solemn state to frame our laws.
The common herd was ever trained to view
them
With deep respect and even awe intense;
How few, how precious few, now rise to do
them
The old-time reverence!
Why has their status slumped, their stock grown
cheaper?
Ah, here’s a problem for analysis.
But I suggest the answer goes no deeper,
In our Australia, anyhow, than this.
When there were few M.Ps. to put our hope
with,
Distinction from their rarity they got,
They’ve lost it now there’s such a horde to
cope with,
A devil of a lot!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


m
10 for 9d...20 for I'6
E 1869
CRAVEN
IfcuM appuciaU tkm
M
0*
:
iMlMtfUiltlltMl
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
The Queen of the Netherlands and
the King of the Belgians had “a surprise
meeting” at The Hague last week —“to
discuss a Nazi ultimatum,” it was asserted,
and “co-operation in the event of a
German attack.” The outcome was an
offer, “as heads of neutral States having
excellent relations with all our neighbors,
to do our utmost to try to find a basis
for a lasting peace.” And it will be
to the lasting honor of their Majesties if
they bring it off, though at present the
odds are against them.
Foreign reporters who infest Holland
had that country all but inundated and
invaded last week. The Dutch were so
wild that they threatened to expel the
worst offenders in a body. It would be
a good tking if all the Famous American
Correspondents were sent back to New
York and advised to stage a war of their
own outside some representative syna-
gogue.
At the moment Menzies is Prime Min-
ister, Treasurer and Minister for Co-
ordination of Defence, having appointed
himself to the third post after arguing
with the State Premiers’ Union (two are
“without portfolio”) about its financial
claims. Street, who had too much to do,
is now called Minister for the
Army ; Stewart Minister for the Navy,
and Fairbairn Minister for Air. It is
expected that Spender will soon be named
full Treasurer. Besides the War Cabinet
there is to be an Economic Cabinet, with
a Treasury Finance Committee, headed
by Massy-Greene, to help.
Last week Cameron invited Fadden,
Corser, Collins and Badman to return
to the old home, and, as a preliminary,
the gentlemen agreed to meet him yester-
day. Since April there have been three
groups of Agrarians. One is plenty, and
with the vigorous leadership that
Cameron can give one group would grow.
On two points The Bulletin agrees
with Lord Mayor Jones, of Brisbane.
One is that “our great trouble to-day is
overgovernment” ; the other that “some
day there will be a greater Common-
wealth, absorbing the States.” And that
day is not far distant.
Mr. Holmes, of the private travel asso-
ciation which draws a steady £20,000
from the Commonwealth Treasury,
though there are public travel associations
all over the place, believes that there will
be a great war-time rush of American
trippers to this continent. Travel-asso-
ciation gents are daisies at believing what
they want to believe.
Opening the Australian pavilion at
Maoriland’s Centennial Exhibition, Sulli-
van, the Minister of Commerce, men-
tioned that half the members of Savage’s
Cabinet are Australians. And the electors
seem to approve of them ; anyway, the
half-Australian Cabinet was given a great
majority on going to the country after
its first term. Perhaps it is the system
that brings out of these Australians the
best they have to give. In a one-Parlia-
ment country there are no such meddling,
indecision and waste as seven Parlia-
ments and seven Governments breed.
Among the real perils to democracy
are raids on the exchequer by pressure
groups. In the U.S.A. they have taken
the form of demands for fantastic pay-
ments to the aged and unemployed, re-
ferred to the electors by faint-hearted
politicians as constitutional amendments,
and thus sure of substantial support, for
the proposed beneficiaries are all voters.
The craze was started in California by
Upton Sinclair, who is full of words and
unwisdom, and last week the Californians
had to vote on an utterly mad plan for
paying “unemployed persons over 50”
$l3O a month. They rejected it by two
to one.
The Constitution of California permits
“any amendment or amendments to be
proposed in the Senate or Assembly,”
and “if two-thirds of all the members
elected to each of the two Houses shall
vote in favor thereof it shall be the duty
of the Legislature to submit such proposed
amendment or amendments to the
people.” Hence the vogue of “ham-and-
eggs schemes,” and they will never be
squelched until those after the ham-and-
eggs are disqualified from voting. In-
cidentally, the Constitution contains a
section which has baffled Australian lot-
tery promoters seeking a wider field. It
forbids “lotteries or gift enterprises for
any purpose,” and ordains the passage
of “laws to prohibit the sale in this State
“The English talk of adopting Australian political methods of raising money.”
“Do you find that comfortable, J.B.?”
of tickets in any scheme in the nature of
a lottery.”
The Ministry of Information has been
delivered of its first-born. It released for
publication on Friday night a statement
concerning the Munich bomb episode.
Only a day and a half after the news-
papers had the story.
One legislator to another in the Bris-
bane Parliament:
No. 1 (to No. 2): You are a hypocrite.
No. 2: I say the Government is dis-
honest and he calls me a hypocrite.
No. 1: You are a humbug.
No. 2: You must have been drinking.
No. 1: Not at your expense.
The words were uttered at a time when
Forgan Smith was in Canberra trying to
adduce reasons why the Commonwealth
should find more easy money for State
Governments to squander.
Sydney “Sun” expressed the hope that
“the fight by the Premiers” at Canberra
would be “carried out with intelligence
and determination.” “The fight” was
for loans and/or inflation.
Darwin has had another strike, of Gov-
ernment railwaymen this time. Fears of
a food-shortage were allayed by soldiers,
who unloaded supplies from trucks into
army lorries, meanwhile improvising a
sandbag road on the jetty. One of the
signs of the times is the rapidly dimm-
ishing importance of railways bn so far
the lesson has been lost on politicians,
managements and staffs.
as T : k ”e B x. h s.^so e „ r e a s S M re L P °C r :
made some very rough remarks on Vic-
torian Government finance in a debate
on Supply. He pointed out that “our
loan liability” had jumped from
£84,839,000 in 1920 to £178,000,000 in
1939, and-conversions, enforced and
voluntary, notwithstanding-annual in-
terest from £3,253,000 to £7,344,620. In
1920 £681,000 of interest came out of
the taxes; last year £3,813,000 was
required. And Dunstan is fond of tell-
ing the other sturdy borrowers that he
is quite a frugal chap.
In its mad rush to recess the Sydney
Government put through a Fair Rents
Bill which limits a builder s return from
new homes, flats and shops to a whole
H per cent, above the current overdraft
rate. An immediate result was that plans
for new construction were pigeonholed
at a great rate. They were already half
on the way to the pigeonholes as a con-
sequence of the Government’s additions
to its two income taxes and its stamp
duties, which hit home-buyers savagely.
On £lOOO of N.S.W. income from rents,
State and Commonwealth Governments
will take £l5B 16s. lOd. this year, whereas
their taxes on £lOOO of company divi-
dends amount to £42 ss. 10d., and on
£lOOO of Commonwealth loan interest to
£59 19s. 3d.
The ignoble business of “validating”
bad laws, to which State Parliaments are
especially prone, has suffered a check
at last. When Justice Lowe ruled that
the Victorian Egg Board had no right
to issue its many fiats, not being legally
constituted, the Government rushed in
with a validating Act. Thereupon, a
poultry-farmer was prosecuted at Gee-
long for “having failed to send the
board a return of the number of eggs”
he had on a particular date and of “the
manner of their disposal”—this when it
had no legal standing. “There is no case
to answer,” the magistrate said. It
would be wrong to punish a man for
something he did which was quite lawful
when he did it.” Case dismissed, with
costs against the board.
Melbourne “Age” has had to admit
that there are factions in the United
Country party (Dunstan’s) and it warns
“the anti-Dunstan clique” that they will
get “a rough handling at annual con-
ference and from the rank and file” if
they don’t let its idol alone. The trouble
has arisen partly because Dunstan put
Hocking, the central-council joss, on the
State Savings Bank Board. Legal com-
plications have arisen, and another
“validating” Act is threatened.
Messages from “the organisations of
the people in all the countries of the
world, enthusiastically endorsing the
policy outlined in Molotov’s speech, are
pouring into Moscow.” Thus a Com-
munist paper published in Sydney. Three
months ago, according to the same
authority, the organisations of the people,
in Britain and Australia especially, were
demanding that Chamberlain should
stop intriguing with the Fascist fiends,
and sign an alliance with Molotov’s push
against Germany and Japan.
Communists are declaring that Brennan
and Holloway, the Victorian Ms.H.R.,
and “other leading Federal and State
members” are in favor of “an early end
to the war.” By that the comrades mean
a Nazi-Bolshie peace, by Force out of
Fear. Before Brennan commits himself
he should remember what happened to
his party after “the Allies can’t beat the
Central Powers” campaign in June, 1918.
Holloway, for his part, should read a
recent article on that shivering mass of
jelly Stalin by his former idol, Trotsky.
“Russia won’t fight. We can’t be
dragged into war,” Molotov’s latest to
British Liberal and Labor politicians,
Churchill, Eden, League simpletons,
newspaper editors, novelists, professors,
radio commentators and Feminist
Leaders. It coincided with an instruc-
tion issued by “the Central Executive of
the Communist party of Australia” to
“every Communist-party member and
every Australian worker”: —•
Rally to the side of the Soviet Union,
the fatherland of all workers, the bulwark
of Peace, Freedom and Socialism.
Ten weeks ago the same crowd was
urging “every Australian worker” to sup-
port Poland’s struggle against the
“festered body of German Fascism”
and to banish from his mind the libels
on the Poles published by “drug-addict
Goring, the Fascist beast of prey.”
Sydney newspapers are busy sending
Ambassadors to Washington. Their first
choice was Justice Evatt (though one
print allowed that his Honor might
choose instead to stand for a Federal
seat and step into Curtin’s shoes); then
Stevens was named. Stevens is indig-
nant, and certainly his qualifications
would baffle detection with the aid
of the most powerful microscope ever
made. However, he is known to be a
fervent admirer of Roosevelt, and only
a reluctant Commonwealth Government
and a churlish Commonwealth Bank
Board prevented him from rivalling the
President’s performance of doubling the
national debt.
“0.T.”: Somebody named Stevens,
who keeps getting into print, says the
Commonwealth should assume complete
responsibility for employment. This can
mean nothing else but national control
of trade, commerce, industry, transport,
marketing, education, health, agriculture,
mines, forests, finance —everything, and
the end of State Parliaments. Surely this
isn’t the Stevens who was once a Premier
or something.


HOME DEFENCE.
“Merino breeders are discussing the development of polled rams.”


The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised .. ..£1,250,000
Capital Issued .. .. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up £1,250,000
Reserve Fund 1,000,000
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. 1,250,000
Head Office: ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
107 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING AND
EXCHANGE BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
Do You Get 5 per cent, a
Year on Your Savings?
SnR SECURrry
Hundreds of men and women throughout Australia enjoy
a better income since they bought FIRST AUSTRALIAN
UNIT TRUST CERTIFICATES. Their savings, often as
low as £2O-£25, are spread securely over the shares of
20 first-class companies, with the Union Insurance Society
of Canton, Ltd., as Custodian Trustees. Income distri-
buted twice yearly, and Certificates realisable at any time.
Write for Booklet No. 2 to the Managers of the Trust:
AUSTRALIAN FIXED TRUSTS PTY., LTD.,
8-14 BOND STREET, SYDNEY.
Box 4028 V.V., G.P.O.
Telephone: 85294.
GBEATEST
BOTEI
Stay ftt
5/- to
train*.
ginglcSj
16/-
,15 Lit ti e
Town
PERSONAL ITEM
Short of £2500 worth of jewels pinched
from his cabin, the Maharajah of Tri-
pura, lately a visitor to Sydney, told the
newspapers that he wasn’t worrying
about their monetary value. He
shouldn’t, with an income of £500,000
a year. Manikya Bir Bikram Kishore
Deb Barman Bahadur rules nearly
400,000 people. A Kshatriya by caste,
he is head of a State with a military
reputation going back to the fifteenth
century. Domestic wars have been inter-
spersed with attacks by the Kukis, a
mercenary lot of fighters, most of the
trouble being over rights of succession.
Rice, cotton, tin, tea and timber products
are main sources of revenue, the Maha-
rajah having full administrative powers.
He has been married twice, is 31 and
entitled to a 13-gun salute.
A, F. (Andy) Gray, head of the newly-
created pig branch of N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, has a home at
Manly, but spends most of his life travel-
ling about the pig ranches of Australia.
Sydney-born in 1887, he put in three
years at Hawkesbury Agricultural Col-
lege, then spent about ten on the land,
returning to H.A.C. as piggery instructor
in 1918. Ten years later he became senior
instructor with the department, and a
year later went to England and bought
stud Berks and Tamworths which have
greatly improved Australasian breeds.
His new appointment was hailed with
pleasure wherever Dennis is the subject
of conversation.
C. A. Moody, a young English medico
lately arrived in S.A., after medical-
mission work, first with Britain’s North
Sea fishing fleet and then in the Belgian
Congo, has started with some good work.
He was relieving Dr. Moody, of Broken
Hill, now in camp, when three urgent
night calls came. At daybreak, he was
flown by pilot Dunn to Wilcannia for an
elderly man, and on to Ivanhoe (N.S.W.)
for a married woman, each run being
over 100 miles ; both were tended, and
delivered at Broken Hill Hospital; then
Moody and Dunn picked up an even
more serious local case and delivered it
in Adelaide, including an injection in
mid-air. The whole job was done by
3 p.m.
William Beckwith Mclnnes, dead in
Melbourne at 50, was a portrait painter
W. B. McINNES, as
Tom Glover saw
him.
by profession, a
landscape painter
by personal pref-
erence. He was
a graduate of the
Melbourne
National Gallery
Art School, which
he entered at 14,
studying under
Fred McCubbin
and Bernard Hall.
His reputation as
a portraitist was
so solidly estab-
lished by his Archi-
bald Prize suc-
cesses—he won it
seven times—that
commissions were
numerous. From
1917 to July last
Mclnnes was an
instructor at the
Melbourne Gal-
lery School.
Several of his
works have been
exhibited at the
Royal Academy. He was a fine draughts-
man, an admirable colorist and a genial
soul withal—Bill to everybody who knew
him.
Few Australians who have lived in, or
visited, Sydney or Melbourne have failed
to pause and glance over the display of
novelties, tricks, books, masks, etc., in
the windows of Will Andrade, who was
known for his particular type of mer-
chandise throughout the Commonwealth.
He opened in Melbourne in 1898, and
later blossomed forth in Sydney, even-
tually making his home there. A keen
surfer, he scarcely missed a morning dip
at Manly, and there he died —killed by
a dumper which threw him to the sand.
He was 75, active and popular.
Few men know more about the British
Dominions and their economics than
R. E. Dalton, Senior British Trade Com-
missioner in the Commonwealth. A
son of the church—his father was a
HIS MAJESTY’S TRADE COMMISSIONER.
(Modelled by Frith.)
Leeds doctor of divinity—he joined the
British Board of Trade service at 18 after
leaving Leeds Grammar School. His rise
was rapid. At 34 he became Trade Com-
missioner to Maoriland, made a success
of the job and was chosen after the war
as secretary to the commission which in-
quired into the affairs of the Wembley
British Empire Exhibition. He went to
Canada for a year as Trade Commis-
sioner there, came to Australia as Senior
Trade Commissioner in 1924 and has
since become an institution. His annual
reports on economic and commercial
conditions are written with fearless de-
tachment and might well be textbooks
on Commonwealth development. Per-
sonally he is tactful, ready to see the
Australian viewpoint, a firm believer in
the greatness of the Commonwealth as
a Dominion and one of our strongest
advocates overseas. In 1937 he was
knighted.
A Brisbane man about to go on a
month’s holiday announced that he didn’t
care whether it rained, hailed, stormed or
was fine. He expressed himself as willing
to undergo tidal waves, earthquakes, cata-
clysms and the collision of heavenly
spheres without complaint so long as no-
body said to him in the course of his
holidays “Do you think it will be fine
to day?” or “Do you think it will
rain?” In fact, the weather could do
entirely as it liked so far as he was con-
cerned. And naturally enough, too —he
is A. S. Richards, Divisional Meteorolo-
gist for Queensland.
Dr. Bradfield, whose £3,000,000 Story
Bridge across the Brisbane River has
been joined, said at a smoke-concert
celebration that his Queensland central-
western water-conservation scheme
would, if sanctioned, knock Franklin
Roosevelt’s Coulee Dam into a cocked
hat. He estimates the cost at £30,000,000,
but as the west is outside the range of
Big Cities Roosevelt may hold the palm
for some time yet. Our politicians like
to do their jobs where there are most
electorates and voters. The little bridge-
builder will have a birthday on Boxing
Day—his 72nd, Sandgate claims him
as a son, but he had his first schooling
at Ipswich.
Melbourne book-lovers will miss A. A.
Firman, who has retired after 52 active
years of publishing, bookselling and
library management. His first job was
in 1888, with Sam Mullen, and in later
years he was chief librarian of Mullen’s
Library. For the last three years he has
been manager of the
Robertson and Mullen
Readwell Libraries.
He and Leonard
Slade, who retired last
month, are the only
surviving original em-
ployees of Melville
and Mullen, which
amalgamated in 1921
with Geo. Robertson
and Co., now known
as Robertson and
Mullen.
N. S. Wales Scots
lost ane of their ain
when George Morice
passed out at 79. As
hon. sec. of the High-
land Society he did
much to keep alive
the Caledonian tradi-
tions, and was known
wherever Scots for-
gathered in Australia.
A native of Kincar-
dineshire, he came to
Sydney over 50 years
ago, intending to prac-
tise law, but became
associated with the
Equitable Insurance
Co. In 1908 he joined
the “Farmer and
Settler,” that agricul-
tural weekly being
then in swaddling clothes, and later as
managing-editor steered it through good
times and bad until his retirement a few
years ago. He was keenly interested in
rural affairs until the end.
Sixty-five years is a long spell in one
district, and Donald McLarty, whose
merinos and Polled Shorthorns are well
known throughout rural Australia, used
that time on Bundure and Lone Pine,
near Jerilderie (N.S.W.), to build up a
fine reputation as a breeder. He went
with his father to Bundure in 1874, and
was manager from 1889 to 1927, when he
acquired Lone Pine. Member of the
A.J.C. and Australian Club, he passed
out the other day at 78.
One of Australia’s minor but useful
explorers has had a centennial in S.A.
John Horrocks, who, starting from Pen-
wortham (near to the better-known Clare,
and itself named after his old home in
Lancashire), found a way through the
Flinders Range to the head of Spencer’s
Gulf —near Port Augusta. It is to-day a
bitumen road of easy gradients, still
called Horrocks Pass. Later, he was acci-
dentally shot while exploring still further
north, and he returned home only to die.
Henry Stephen Dunks, Chairman of
Committees in the S.A. Parliament, is
English-born, but came to Australia in
infancy. Was educated at Dookie (Vic.),
and went into his father’s bakery busi-
ness. Has been in S.A. for 33 years, is
H. S. DUNKS.
a partner in the C. Turner firm of bakers,
and a director of Waltons (biscuit and
confectionery) and several other con-
cerns. He has been in Parliament for
six years, first as member for Sturt, then
for Mitcham. He goes in for elocution,
has helped to win several debating com-
petitions at South-street, Ballarat, and
is an alderman of Unley C.C. He’s 56,
plays tennis and golf, and is president of
the Sturt Cricket Club.
A.B.C. announcer D’Arcy Edward
Sullivan, so christened by his Irish father
in Virginia (U.S.A.), but known as Ben,
has been called up for service with the
British Naval Reserve. The young man
was formerly a 8.8. C. announcer and
assistant producer of drama. Educated
in England and at Heidelberg University
(Germany), he was intended for the diplo-
matic service, and was stationed as inter-
preter with the British East Indies squad-
ron. He left that to become A.D.C. to
the Governor of Zanzibar, and was later
secretary to the sultan there. He speaks
many languages.
“E.V.”: That Lapstone (N.S.W.)
conference on International Relations
(B. 8/11/ ’39) provided a good stepping-
stone to higher things. The president,
Lord Lothian, has gone to Washington
as British Ambassador, and one of the
leading members of the Canadian dele-
gation, C. J. Burchall, comes to Australia
as first Canadian High Commissioner.
A man for whom the blessing of the
big new cathedral at Dogura (New
Guinea) on October 29 was a happy day
is Dr. Henry Newton, Bishop of New
Guinea from 1915 until he resigned four
years ago. He went out on the New
Guinea mission staff in 1899, and after
serving for 16 years was elected Bishop
of Carpentaria (North Australia), return-
ing to New Guinea as bishop of that
diocese when Bishop Sharp was trans-
lated to Brisbane. He is now living in
retirement in New Guinea, and spends
his time relieving missionaries at various
stations, filling in odd moments coaching
native clergy, of whom there are now a
number on the staff. He is beloved of
native and European alike.


foVfjRY
U TO Wo* COUNTRY
PACKARD
LE K TJR O * SHA YEP
The shaving habits of the world have
been revolutionised by the electric shaver
—no longer is it necessary to endure the
cutting and scraping of the skin, so long considered
an essential part of shaving. The Packard Lektro-
shaver, because of its many special features, will
shave any type beard, no matter how coarse, smoothly,
closely and without cutting or nicking the skin.
A
s
if
a
a**' s'
fm
f mm
i
Ss&
as^
„ v >V°
V V
**&&s£&■
%?£*&£?&s£'
k
V 9 XS*fe, <*s&
vcp. \s <y &
V c 0
V^ * c
ELECTRICALLY SAFE !
The use of low-voltage models with the
specially-approved step-down transformer
ensures absolute safety at all times.
It is important to note that the
transformer has been approved
by the Standards Associa-
tion of Australia, and
the low-v olta g e
shavers do not
require such
approval.
INO SOAP •NO LATHER
# NO BRUSH *NO CUTS
INSTANTLY ADAPTABLE
"SAFE AS A TELEPHONE.”
PATENTED SMOOTH ROUND
HEAD.
1,000,000 PACKARDS NOW
IN USE.
«... £4/19/6
Complete with specially
approved transformer or with
new 6-volt portable Vesta
Battery—specially adapted for
travellers, soldiers, sailors,
campers, etc.
INSTANTLY
ADAPTABLE!
There’s no electric shaver so well
suited to the needs of city man or the
“Man on the Land” as the Packard.
For 240-volt operation, a specially-
approved step-down transformer is sup-
plied free with the shaver, while for
6- or 12-volt operation the Packard
plugs direct into the power supply.
PACKARD'S
SMOOTH ROUND
CUTTING HEAD:
ELECTRICALLY SAFE:
The patented cutting head of the Packard marks the
greatest advance ever made in electric-shaver design.
There are no sharp corners to irritate the skin, and the
exclusive “4-way shearing action” of the Packard ensures
that every man has a perfect shave always. Over
£50,000 was spent in developing this feature—obviously
the most important part of any electric shaver.
SPECIAL PORTABLE 6-VOLT BATTERIES.
Instead of the step-down transformer generally supplied, there is now avail-
able a specially-constructed “Vesta” 6-volt Battery, for men who are not
always able to reach a standard system or electricity supply. Soldiers,
yachtsmen, campers, travellers, have all found the portable 6—volt battery
the last word in convenient electric shaving, at all times. No matter where
you may go, it is always possible to enjoy the comfort of a Packard shave.
In every Battery there are 400 shaves —enough for more than a
at the end of that period the Battery can be re-charged for a further 400
electric shaves at cost of a few pence.
FOR WOMEN, TOO: Women have found the Packard Lektro-
shaver the only really satisfactory way of removing hair from
the legs, the neck and under the arms. The
smooth round head of the Packard makes it
impossible to cut the shin, arid the use of the
Packard does not encourage the
growth of hair or coarsen the texture
of the skin.
£
■
*
?'■ %
vV J:
m
*A
M •:.M
l£
sssass
*S,v %
Mi
m
■~*\r
y*f**k.
POST NOW For Details!
ERS
COO
NT Rl
There’s no gift a man would be
so glad to receive as a Packard
Lektro-shaver. He’ll thank you
—• and mean it. Post the
coupon NOW for illustrated
folder describing
more fully the
a d v a ntages of
Packard Lektro
shaving.
JOHN MARTIN PTY. LTD.
116-118 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me illustrated folder on the Packard and further details of special gift offer.
Standard source of supply is:
240-volt A.C., .
6- or 12-volt car battery or house-lighting plant,
I am specially interested in Portable Battery model.
Cross out whichever does trot apply.
NAME
ADDRESS


ABORIGINALITIES
“Arev”: “Yairs,” said old Dan Mulli-
gan, “my son Bill is spoilin’ his kids.
When my youngsters was small they had
ter work. They was up at daybreak an’
milked their share of cows, fed the fowls
an’ did a few other jobs about the place
before they set off fer school. An’ when
they came home there was more yakka.
But now, look at Bill’s kids. They go all
dressed up to High School soon as they’ve
had breakfast. When they finish lessons
like as not there’s sports practice, an’ they
get home in time for dinner. As soon as
the dishes are off the table out comes
their books. There’s no time for ’em
to do any work on the farm.” Dan’s
neighbor shook his head. “Your Bill
shouldn’t send his kids ter High School.
He oughter give ’em a bit o’ work ter do
an’ let ’em get the same schoolin’ as he
got. Anyhow, I don’t know how he can
afford the High School expenses.” Dan
Mulligan’s chin went out until his whis-
kers were almost horizontal. “I pay ’em,”
he roared. “Aren’t my grandchildren as
good as any other kids? Why shouldn’t
they go ter High School, same as the
rest?”
* * * *
“Felix”: “Gryllus’s” cat and its habit
of bringing home creatures of the bush
(B. 18/10/’39) remind me of a big black
puss I once owned which selected
the floor beneath my bed for its lair.
Thereto, at nightly intervals, it delivered
half the wild-life from the surrounding
countryside. Sometimes I’d wake and
find a heap of feathers and bones under
my bed, sometimes a stiffened go. and,
occasionally, the corpse of a rabbit,
though I never could fathom why Tom
refused to eat the bunnies. It may have
been some sense of feline chivalry that
prompted him to escort one of his lady-
loves home, but one morning he wakened
me by sitting on the foot of my bed
while underneath six kittens fumbled
about their mother and feebly proclaimed
their arrival into the world. I ticked Tom
off for that escapade, and later barred
him from the bedroom altogether when
I woke one morning to find him playing
with three feet of live brown snake.
“Roebuck Bay”: Old pearlers who em-
ployed skin divers along the W.A. coast
had a theory regarding shark attacks
on Mack men that fits in with “Nor’-
west’s” contention that such attacks do
occur, though mostly near the surface
(B. 18/10/’39). The black man is sel-
dom black all over ; with many races the
soles of the feet are white, or at least
much lighter colored. And with their
owner engaged in diving they are clean
and bright from frequent immersion.
Thus it is when the diver is flitting up-
wards from the depths he is attacked, the
sea-tiger being attracted by the flash of
the soles of his feet. Old hands will tell
that it was always a leg that was taken.
* * * *
“Erua”: I’d like to tell “Dominic”
(B. 1/11/’39) that I am one who has
survived by reason of the equine chivalry
he disbelieves in. My father had a black
stallion, Thunder, a handsome, dangerous
animal that only he could handle. He
left the horse one day tethered outside
the circular fence that ringed the garden
round the homestead, and I, aged three,
seized the opportunity to slip out and
have a game with Thunder. I was
swinging happily round his legs, taking
each in turn, when the family noticed
me from the house. They looked on
in silent horror —a nervous aunt fainted
—as to call out or approach might mean
startling the horse and seeing me lashed
to death. When I finally glanced their
way I beheld an array of cakes, toys and
other enticements on the verandah, rail,
“ Don't you know you're not supposed to read these magazines?”
“ What's Wrong Wi' them? Are they censored?”
and a crowd silently beckoning me to
come and enjoy them. I went at full
speed. But though the horse tolerated
me as a small child he did not relish
my company, and much head-tossing,
by-play with ears and impatient stamp-
ing bore witness to his growing annoy-
ance.
* * * *
“B. Comber”: The Barrier Reef prawn
isn’t the only crustacean that can inflict
a nasty wound with its tail (B. 18/10/’39).
Beware the clawless and apparently de-
fenceless cray! Fresh from the sea and
still full of pep, a big cray with a quick
snap of its tail can cut fingers to the
bone. Watch experts handle such a
catch: they always go for the long whis-
kers. Nature armed the cray thus for
a purpose. One of its chief undersea
enemies is the octopus. But even the
octo. must do some hard thinking and
more than occasionally leave go when
that armored tail snaps up a few times
on enveloping tentacles.
sH - * * *
“Wippegong”: Have you ever met a
butcher who went his rounds, not to
deliver meat, but to collect it? Knew
one once ; he was an expert tradesman,
had a glorious singing voice—and wore
feathers. In the pines around the home-
stead sparrows’ nests were a penny a
dozen, and in the spring the squeaking
of the youngsters lasted from dawn till
dark. Jack the butcher-bird, having
belted all other intruders, had pegged
the claim for his own and made his calls
daily. He’d hop to the entrance of a
nest, poke his head in, then skim across
to the next nest. Abused from branch
to branch, he took it all with the casual-
ness of an old pug; sometimes even
pausing for a second inspection and pre-
tending to think it over, oblivious of the
cursing spags around his ears. When
Jack did decide to kill, the victim was
briskly picked from the nest, clouted a
couple of times against a limb, then
taken away and jammed into one of the
favorite forks used for that purpose.
Never knew the carnivorous cuss to finish
one of these meals straight off. Usually
the fledgling was left for an hour or two,
then its innards were ripped out, and
bit by bit the flesh torn off and eaten.
Between times Jack expressed his content
in notes of golden beauty, though, as
C. J. Dennis said of him, “I wonder
that he has the heart to sing.”
* * * *
“Quareef”: Fifty years ago two
Afghan pals parted at Fremantle. One,
Muscha Mustan, elected to seek his for-
tune in Westralia; the other, Khan
Zadda, continued his journey to Adel-
aide and later drifted into N.S.W. On
October 7 last the flying doctor landed
Muscha Mustan at the Broken Hill Hos-
pital. He had badly lacerated his foot
while working as overseer on Cordilla
Downs station, far north S.A. Immedi-
ately the hospital staff had made him
comfortable, he sent for Khan Zadda.
The two had corresponded but hadn't
met since they parted at Fremantle.
Khan, now a respected citizen of Broken
Hill —famous for noteworthy exploits
performed during the years he trekked
long strings of provision-laden camels
into the Dry Heart of Australia before
the trundling motor-lorry usurped his
trade —rushed to the hospital, where, amid
excited ’Ghan gibberish, laughter and
tears, two lean, brown hands met again
after half a century. Presently Muscha
said: “I have a telegram from the wife.
She wants to know if she will come
across with our two sons and nurse me.
You must write and tell her not to worry ;
say I’m all right, doing fine and being
well looked after by my good friend
Khan.” Khan promptly wired the mes-
sage. Has any white man experienced
such genuine affection from a mate he
had not seen for 50 years?
* * * *
“Solitude”: Shearing records? A pass-
ing drover dropped in the other morning
declaring that he had a woolly in his
mob. Asking permission to use our
yards, he borrowed some blades and set
to work to shear her. A couple of hours
later, as he was still there, I went up to
investigate. There he was, dripping per-
spiration and puffing laboriously over his
task. He informed me that he was no
shearer, a remark which seemed redun-
dant. But could that old ewe kick! The
drover was going up the neck when I
arrived, and he’d get in one “blow” and
then stop to struggle with the sheep. It
being then lunchtime, I invited him to
join us, and he was jolly glad of the
spell. Afterwards he asked for the loan
of a hammer. Wondering why he wanted
it, I followed him back to the yards.
Walking over to his half-shorn tornado,
he neatly tapped her on the head, and
then calmly finished his job before she
recovered.
* * * *
“Mulgo”: Every abo. tribe that I have
had any acquaintance with believed in a
Supreme Being. To the Yucumbilla tribe,
whose territory reached from south of
the Clarence River (N.S.W.) to the Mac-
pherson Range, and from the sea to the
New England tablelands, God was Yulu-
tahna, maker of all things, Who dwelt in
the sky. There went the spirits of all
good blackfellows, to the happy hunting-
grounds, where everything was beautiful
and there was abundance of all good
things for eternity. With Yulutahna in
the great towri up above dwelt his wife,
Ululu, the red-headed goddess who
watched over women. Binghi could not
imagine that even a spirit could abide
without a wife. His conceptions showed
his belief that he was the image of God,
and that the after-life was a glorious
replica of the earthly life where care and
sorrow never entered. The belief in the
goddess Ululu seems to have been wide-
spread. No white man with red hair
was ever harmed by wild blacks.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Christmas, 1893, saw
Jack Reidy, well known at The Cross and
Parker’s Range, in Coolgardie selling
gold and buying stores. February, ’94,
saw him in again—with more gold.
Watched day, and night, and by scouts
on every surrounding hilltop, he finally
set off towards the south-west. Astute
diggers scouted to the north-east look-
ing for his tracks. With four camels
Massey and party set off for Giles Pin-
nacles, the only
known place in that
direction. When 120
miles out, with the
nearest known water
80 miles away, they
cached supplies and
started on a life-or-
death race back. Still
40 miles from Cool-
gardie, the camels,
ten days without a
drink, lay down.
Leaving each of his
mates half a pint of
water, Massey with
one pint set off to
bring relief. Of the
several hundred who
on foot tried to
track Reidy, Jones
and Clements suc-
ceeded. Locating his
diggings at Kurnalpi,
they pegged a claim
and won three
ounces. With empty
waterbags they
started back.
Clements reached
Coolgardie, crawl-
ing, naked. Spoon-
fed with water for
48 hours, he recov-
ered sufficiently to
tell of Jones, left
somewhere in the
bush. In the mean-
time Massey had
reached the big camp and organised relief
for his mates. The police with trackers
and volunteers set out to look for Jones.
They found him, still alive. Crawling,
naked, on his last mile, Jones, with all
Westralia around him, had stumbled on
a billy of water left under a bush by
Massey’s relief party!
* * * *
“Judy B.”: Highlander, an Australian
Waler, General “Bull” Ryrie’s mount
in the Palestine campaign, has died at
Ivybridge, England. The old chap—he
was 32 —once saved the life of the old
Brig., who clung to his tail when he
became unseated when crossing a flooded
river. Highlander’s days were made easy
by a Plymouth horsetrainer who bought
him after the war.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Me an’ the big fellow
have often talked with other blokes about
how they first met The B. Mat’s version
is that, as a kid, he found a heap of old
copies behind a barber’s shop in Mt.
Gambier (S.A.), and spent the best part
of a week cutting out and pasting on
cardboard Billy Bluegum, the native bear
then frequently featured. I was ten when
a flood hit Warracknabeal (Vic.), and
several families took refuge on the hos-
pital hill. Among flotsam washed up
was a wooden box containing a dead
kitten, a saucer, some bullets and a Bul-
letin. I had a toothache, and was given
the paper to keep me quiet. It’s always
been able to do so ever since. Next,
please!
A FITTING END.
It happened out at Murrawong,
A place of which you’ve heard;
The babbler stole the boss’s wife —
They left without a word.
The boss, of course, went on the spree,
And drowned his grief in beer.
He swore he’d find that blanky cook
And sought him far and near.
Well, years went by, and though you might
Have thought the wound would heal,
The ravaged husband ne’er forgot
That babbler and his steal.
He never let a chance go by
Of picking up their track;
And often he’d be gone for months
To trace some rumor back.
He’d get a word from distant mates,
See something in the press,
And catch a train or take his car
To some unknown address.
He must have hunted high and low
From Camooweal to Yea,
While on the marching seasons trod
Until his hair was grey.
And then, when twenty years had passed,
A bagman in from Rand
Described a couple on a farm
He’d struck near Gunningbland.
Unholy blazes in his eyes,
The boss snatched up his gun,
And vanished in a cloud of dust
Towards the setting sun.
He reached the place at dead o’ night,
When all was hushed and dim.
With trigger cocked and fingers ripe
To take a vengeance grim,
He paused awhile with bated breath
As, from the guilty room,
He heard the erring woman’s voice
Come through the pregnant gloom.
He listened with a beating heart
To those once charming tones,
And felt his purpose melt away
Like ice on burning stones.
He left them there and, full of joy
That no hot blast of lead
Had stilled the voice that once he loved,
He homeward swiftly fled.
“You know,” he said in after days,
“I feel a sense of shame
To think of what those twenty years
For that poor cook became.
I’d often planned a ghastly end
For that wife-stealing knave,
But better far the way it is—
She’ll talk him to his grave!”
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Wang”: Some blokes has got an
answer fer ev’ry argyment,” observed
Dan. “What I mean is, no matter how
yer can put a thing to suit yer own point
of view, they’ve got one to meet yours
an’ beat it with, too, gen’rally. I wus
trampin’ one time with a long-faced,
herrin’-gutted slab of misery. One day
he started pickin’ at me ’bout smokin’.
‘You must’ve spent hundreds of quids on
terbaccer,’ he ses, ‘an’ how much better
orf you’d have been if y’ hadn’t.’ ‘Oh,
I dunno,’ I ses; ‘I get pleasure out of it,
an’ a bloke has to pay fer his pleasure,
y’ know.’ ‘That’s right ernough,’ he
ses, ‘but I don’t reckon I’m losin’ any
pleasure, becos I ain’t never smoked in
me life, an’ wot y’ never ’ad y’ never miss.’
‘Well,’ I snaps, shirty, ‘y’ ain’t any better
orf than me ’s far’s yer pocket’s con-
cerned ’s far as I can see. An’ if y’
smoked a bit y’ wouldn’t be such a
grizzly, mis’rable object that yer are.’
That didn’t hurt him. He jest gives
his face a twist what was the nearest to
a smile he cud get, an’ ses, ‘That’s where
y’ wrong. I’ve noticed that when y’
run out of terbaccer yer as grumpy an’
mis’rable as a bandicoot. Ain’t that so?’
I admits it’s true. ‘Well,’ he goes on,
twistin’ his dial some more, ‘l’m always
wotcher pleased to call mis’rable, an’
ain’t never no diff’rent, so I’m sorta
satisfied with life; but you, when y’
ain’t got no terbaccer, is mis’rable an’
dissatisfied with life, see. So, in the end,
who’s the happiest of the two of us?’
But I reckon the cow took a mean ad-
vantage of me —he knew I’d near run
outa terbaccer.”
“Bufo”: Queensland is apt to pride
itself in places concerning the number of
genuine snakes which it can produce to
the acre, but Chappie Island, in the Fur-
neaux Group, Bass Strait, seems to have
held something like the 1938 Australian
record. Joe was so much in evidence
there during last mutton-bird season that
he got a large share of the eggs and also
bit several eggers. The Tas. Fauna Board
agreed to pay 3d. a head, and a five-week
“ Here —try this one!”
“Quick, Bill —breathe deep or you'll never get through.”
collection set them back £l2 Bs. for 992
of him. Continued attention has made
a slump in the Blake family probable
when the birds come in again from the
ocean at the end of November.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: A bird observer in N.Q.
has noted a curious apparent effect of
wireless waves on flighting birds. Some
ten miles south of the 4AY station at
Ayr (N.Q.) a mob of brolgas has a
breeding-ground in the Burdekin delta.
Each morning about 7 o’clock they fly
north to their feeding grounds near Giru,
returning about 5 p.m. The two wireless
masts are in the direct line of route, and
when the station is off the air they pass
overhead, coming or going, in the direct
line of the masts. If a broadcast is being
made, however, the mob divides as. it
approaches the station and only unites
again after it has been passed. The
sound from the transmitting wires is too
slight to provide a reasonable explanation
of the manoeuvre, but it has been checked
repeatedly and occurs invariably and
only when the station is in action.
* * * *
“Bungham”: We still fall for the old
tricks. I was swinging through the scrub
when the sight of an injured tomtit
fluttering with difficulty across the sand
set me in pursuit. Squeaking piteously,
it managed to elude me for a good 50
yards. Then, with a triumphant “cheep,”
it flew into the air, its wings in perfect
order. Recognising that it was just
a ruse to lure me away from its nest,
I crept through the scrub conscious of
my intellectual inferiority.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: The Argentine red ant
that is pestering Yarrasiders has been
described as the world’s worst insect pest.
It may be in its home country, but if
it’s any worse than the little black ants
of our back-country I’ll shout. These
ebony mites will penetrate anywhere.
Men camped out have to suspend their
bunks on wires insulated with kerosene-
soaked rags—and the ants drop from
the handiest branch. Householders stand
their tables, safes, etc., in tins of water
—and the ants find a thread, a straw, a
carelessly-placed chair, and swarm in. In
dry summers they become abnormally
voracious and will tackle live creatures,
human and animal, with maddening
gusto. They destroy young birds in the
nest, bees in the hive and domestic
chickens. Possessed of astonishing speed
and courage, they are profanely and
rightly branded the curse of the back-
country. The Argentinian ants wouldn’t
have a hope against them.
*** - *
“B. A. Ker” : In this symposium on
the wheelbarrow, I nominate the brick-
dragger’s barrow as the most awkward and
yet most efficient means of manual trans-
port. Built with the wheel at the centre of
balance, it throws very little weight on
the hands, but is harder to balance than
a State Premier’s Budget. Experienced
draggers, however, can even release both
handles at once and catch them again
without causing a fall in bricks. The
normal load is 50 bricks—-a trifle of
about 4cwt., or more if the bricks are
“green”—but I once saw a fellow take
on a bet to wheel 333 (about 27cwt.),
the only conditions being that he should
have a downhill “run” and assistance
to raise the handles to start. The load-
ing was a revelation in counterbalance
and equilibrium; and it took four men
with a pole under the barrow to lift the
legs off the ground. Once up, however,
the bettor staggered 15 or so paces before
the overburdened vehicle collapsed.
* * * *
“Alligator Rock”: Though it’s nigh on
three years since I fished off those reefs
about 100 yards off the beach at Cottes-
loe (W.A.), I saw a good deal of Sam
the Seal (B. 18/10/’39) right up to the
time I left. Many’s the time I’ve cursed
him for appearing when the fish were
biting well and scaring them out of sight
and out of reach, and many’s the time
he’s scared the wits out of me by bob-
bing up from nowhere and heralding
himself with his gusty cough. Was
perched on a rock about 3ft. beneath the
surface and 100 yards from the shore
when I felt the rush of water as some-
thing swirled close to the backs of my
legs, and I turned just in time to see a
streamlined shadow twisting to return my
way. I was half-way to shore before I
realised it was Sam. But Sam wasn’t the
only seal who frequented that stretch of
coastline; there were at least three
youngsters almost as familiar as the old-
timer, though they were less inclined to
sport themselves on the seaweed as Sam
was wont to do.
* * * *
“Yarri”: A north-western (N.S.W.)
squatter set out for Wilcannia with a
heavy buggy and four horses, taking his
dog with him in the back of the vehicle
to fetch up the horses in the morning.
Barker had been trained to that job at
the homestead. That night Woolbale
camped at a creek 40 miles from the
station. In the morning the dog, which
had never been away from home before,
was missing. So were the horses. The
squatter followed the tracks back along
the road: he followed them the whole
40 miles to the station. There were
several gates on the way, and the exas-
perated woolgrower presumed that the
dog had opened them.
“Gin and Two”: Wish I’d met “C.R.’s”
neighbor (B. 25/10/’39) before she filed
the bills of her ducks to a point to make
them compete on an equal basis with
the fowls in food-foraging. I have con-
quered the same difficulty in a much more
efficient manner. My idea was to drill
a hole in the quack’s bottom lip ; then,
as soon as the duck grabs a mouthful,
half of it spills out through the hole
to be snaffled by the waiting chooks. An
added advantage of this method is the
psychological effect on the quacks. Mine
haven’t yet found out that they are on
half rations, and they still seem to thrive.
As a matter of fact I’m thinking of
enlarging the holes.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: I rise to move that the
soldier-bird be no longer regarded a
member of the honeyeaters’ guild, his
preference for tinned jam being, next to
his cursed habit of betraying the hunter,
his most marked characteristic. If you’re
camped in his country, leave a spot of
jam in the tin and he’ll beat the ants to
it. Along the Murray have frequently
had the cheeky little fellow as table com-
pany —provided the jam is placed handy
and no sudden movements are made.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The controversy anent
polled merino rams hit the station just
after this year’s lot of two-tooths was
classed, and there was some pretty acrid
discussion in the hut that night. The old
boss paid us one of his rare visits, but
strangely enough had little to say on a
subject we thought might have touched
him closely, as he’s always been a merino
man. When somebody pointed out that
even the Boonoke crowd were experi-
menting with poleys, and that Otway
Falkiner had confessed that, though ad-
mitting to a prejudice against them, he
really didn’t see what good horns were,
the boss got up. “Well,” he said, “Ottie
Falkiner can say what he likes, but t’ me
a merino without horns just ain’t a
merino, that’s all. Maybe the horns ain’t
any good, but then the foam on a pot
o’ beer ain’t any good either. Just the
same, a beer ain’t a beer without the
foam!” There was a very thoughtful
silence after that.
* * * *
“M 8”: When that German owl in
Maoriland attacked two pet magpies (B.
1/11 /’39) it is just as well the owner of
the birds drove it off —for the owl. Un-
less M.L. maggies are a lot different from
their Aussie fellows, any owl taking on
one of them, let alone two, would be in
for trouble. I know of nothing in
feathers gamer or of better fighting
ability than the Aussie magpie, which
will tackle anything from a crow to a
man. Owls, like most birds of prey (in-
cluding the human kind), pick their
marks, and whoever picks a maggie picks
a fight.
* * * *
“J.R.M.”: Old Bill, who used to hump
Matilda on the Gundagai-Cargellico-
Lachlan-Whitton-Grong-Grong-Gundagai
beat, became reminiscent over a pot. “On
me larst trip I broke orf me usual run
at Whitton an’ went to the Darlin’ton
Point races, but I did no flamin’ good.
I never looked like makin’ a do o’ things.
The trouble was, I made the mistake o'
waitin’ till the drunks laid down before
I went through ’em, but I was too late.
The other cows’d ratted ’em while they
was still standin’ up. Blime, I must be
gettin’ be’ind the times!”
GRAND EVENT.
“When the Queanbeyan (N.S.W.) Band visited
naDtain’s Flat, members of the audience said that it
was the first time a band had played at Captain-3
Flat for 35 years.”—“ S.M.H
Not since the days of mutton-sleeves and
bustles, .
Antimacassars and the sideboard zitl,
When skintight coats revealed a he-man s
muscles
And heroes’toiled in collars high and stiff;
Not since the infancy of motor traction,
When this our century was still a pup,
And Lib. and Lab. were locked in furious
faction,
Had Captain’s Flattites heard a band in action:
No doubt they lapped it up.
How was the muse Euterpe represented
O’er five-and-thirty years of bandless drought?
Perhaps the civic ear was sore tormented
By concertinas pushed and pulled about;
Or every tranquil evening gave an airing
To ancient banjos twanged by calloused
thumbs.
Perhaps at dusk, when other cows were blaring,
The “experts” blew beyond all human bearing
On leaves they took from gums.
Many will deem that it was devilish hard on
Those townsfolk who at middle-age had ne’er
Before seen bandsman blowing a bombardon
Or from some trombone conjuring an air.
Still, thinking of some bands whose weird
renditions
Converted marches into bogs of din,
And others with unauthorised ambitions
To play between the notes of compositions—
We think their luck was in!
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


UNDOUBTED SECURITY FOl
THE PERFORMANCE OE
rog
The Trustees Executors & Agency Company
Ltd. is the oldest Trustee Company in Aus-
tralia, having had over 61 years experience in
all matters relating to the duties of Executor
and Trustee.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves and
Undivided Profits total £961,115. £20,000 has
heen deposited with the Colonial Ireasurer of
New South Wales and £lO,OOO with the Treas-
urer of Victoria as security for the performance
of its duties.
The Company offers a personal and sympath-
etic service, undoubted security, impartiality,
continuity and other advantages at a moderate
and fixed fee.
Full information will he afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
and Agency Company Ltd,
1-5 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
and at
401 & 403 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman)
Lieut.-Gen. Sir Brudenell White, K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
„ „ „ K.C.V.0., D.S.O.
R. O. Blackwood D. Stuart Murray John Fordyce
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G, Sir Lennon Raws, C.B.E.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman)
W. D. Stewart R. t. Hilder
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French
Gen. Manager: W. Sydney Jones. Manager: K. M. Hughes.
ADAMS' (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Bunch from 12 noon (Sunday. 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by Phone M 4601.
The
WILD CAL
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
r Dividends s Written
June, Profit. All Sliares. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 513,660 12 p.c. = 312,000 138,828 291,252
Charged to development, £lB4l .. 289,411
Pref. Ord.
p.c. p.c.
1930.. 428,156 10 10 260,000 137,532 320,035
1931.. 158,239 Nil Nil 142,768 336,506
Charged to development, £4l .. 336,465
1932.. 234,903 8 Nil 120,000 151,000 300,368
1933.. 373,095 12 Nil 180,000 151,371 342,092
1934.. 350,161 12 4 224,000 117,016 351,237
1935.. 402,956 8 5 175,000 148,008 431,185
1936.. 497,247 10 10 260,000 175,544 492,888
1937.. 691,344 17$ 174 455,000 154,521 574,711
1938.. 604,802 15 15 390,000 144,774 644,739
1939.. 503,532 15 15 390,000 96,577 661,694
The figures are a testimony to the skill
of the management and support, finan-
cial and otherwise, of the Barrier cos. in
building up an industry which in the days
before the Great War was in the hands
of Germany and German-controlled
plants in Belgium. High prices encour-
aged production, and quality—the zinc is
99.9 p.c. pure—ensured ready sales at a
premium in competition with zinc from
other producing countries.
The £2,600,000 of share capital is in
1,500,000 8 p.c. cum. prefs., which
advance with the ords. beyond that rate,
and 1,100,000 ords. An all-round 12 p.c.
was paid for the five years to the close
of accounts in 1930; then, owing to
slump, the pref. div. got behind for a
while. But new markets were found, and
earnings and divs. have since kept in
step with output and metal prices.
The contraction of £101,270 in last
year’s profit was due mainly to lower
prices for metals, average sterling quotes
for which compare as follows:
-ear Zinc, Lead, Silver, Gold,
J me, Ton. Ton. Oz Oz
1936.. £l5/3/11 £l6/4/6 2/2.4
1937.. £2O/2/1 £23/2/8 1/9.9 £7/0/9
1938.. £l6/15/1 £l7/10/- 1/9.1 £7
1939'.. £l4/0/3 £l4/19/6 1/9.4 £7/8/5
The drop in zinc and lead was
£2 14s. lOd. and £2 10s. 6d. a ton
respectively. Gold was up Bs. 5d
an ounce, and there was no change
worth mentioning in silver. The blow
was softened by realisation of stocks at
better than 1938 valuation figures, and
by taking increased stocks when the
books last closed into account at figures
more in accord with replacement values
After allowing £112,612 (down £12,805)
axa ti° n > declared net earnings were
£53,768 lighter at £405,756. This is recon-
ciled with profit in the table in this way :
Profit and loss balance .. .. . . £405 756
I'et addition depreciation reserve, etc. . . 96 577
Unexplained addition sinking fund . . 1,199
Net profit as per table .. . . .. £503,532
The allowance for depreciation, etc., was
£48,197 lighter, which suggests that this
reserve (now £2,528,467, equal to 57.2 p.c.
of the book value of fixed assets) is
something more than is actually required
for ordinary wear and tear. However,
after deducting the allowance (it is in-
cluded with profit and then shown as
written off in the table) enough remained
to show 15.6 p.c. on capital (pref. and
ord. combined) as against 17.7, 20.6, 12.4,
9.8 and 8.9 p.c. back to 1934. The div.
was kept at an all-round 15 p.c.
Metal output compares as follows:—•
. Cad- Cop-
Zinc, Silver, Lead, miuin, per, Gold,
Tons. Oz.* Tons. Tons. Tons. Oz.*
1925 46,929 929,500 7030 168 256
1930 54,150 669,800 5466 218 179
1934 53,464 197,800 2024 166 85
1935 58,889 207,400 1983 175 97
1936 72,122 247,500 2403 253 140 __
1937 70,082 389,480 2266 216 248 3780
1938 69,718 360,450 2772 193 230 4132
1939 69,825 437,550 2873 172 233 4070
* Excludes residues from cadmium plant.
About 40 p.c. of the year’s zinc output
was sold locally as against 50 p.c. and
36 p.c. for the two preceding terms. The
output of sulphuric acid was 92,238 (up
1318) tons, and sales of super, were 2244
tons better at 28,786 tons.
The West Coast mill treated 159,970
(up 6626) tons of slightly richer ore,
which assayed 21.02 p.c. zinc, 6.37 p.c.
lead, 0.58 p.c. copper, 7.070 z. silver and
2.l2dwt. gold, with the following result:
t— 1 -Assay .
Sil-
„ . Zinc, Lead, ver, Gold,
West Coast— Tons. p.c. p.c. Oz. Dwt.
Zinc concentrates . . 55,108 54.30 3.60 6.15 140
Lead concentrates.. 13,268 15.00 54.35 47.48 11 34
Residue .. .. 91,594 1.87 1.09 1.78 1.10
In addition 134,019 (down 16,375) tons
zinc concentrates, assaying 52.64 p.c. zinc,
1.46 p.c. lead and 1.510 z. silver, were
bought from the Barrier cos. About
42,000 tons of the co.’s stock of zinc
concentrates at Broken Hill was released
as a national emergency shipment to the
U.K., and a further 13,000 tons was
similarly released after the close of
accounts. There was a slight reduction
in costs both at Risdon and the West
Coast mines and mill.
Ore blocked in the West Coast mines
is:—•
, Assay N
Zinc, Lead, Silver, Gold,
_ , Tons. p.c. p.c. Oz. Dwt.
Rosebery . . 627,459 21.0 6.0 7.0 1.8
Hercules . . 446,075 24.8 6.4 6.7 1.9
Reserves of known and probable pay-
ore in the two mines combined remain
unchanged at 1,500,000 tons, and develop-
ments at the north end of the Rosebery
suggest that more will ultimately be
available.
The liquid position further improved:
, 1935. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Debentures . . £401,697 £401,600 £401,949 £400,000
Sundry creditors 138,140 309,718 197,332 191,916
Deposits and
interest .. 87,354 59,585 256,127 203,432
Overdraft . . 8,460 8,296 17,923 62,393
Mt. R e a d-
Rosebery
mines . . 457,524 457,524 457,524 457,524
Properties,plant
etc. . . 3,787,542 3,835,137 3,893,808 3,959,003
Book debts .. 161,315 287,916 197,624 194,916
Shares other
cos. .. 246.733 353,781 459,614 500,468
Stocks . . 368,869 439,148 494,391 613,744
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 775,407 1,286,105 1,403,860 1,271,578
To meet the year’s reduction of £52,695
in deposits, add £65,195 to plant, etc.,
£40,854 to shares in other cos. and
£119,353 to stocks, cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £132,282 and the co. went to
its bankers for an extra £44,470. Includ-
ing shareholdings, the improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,722,965) was £40,807.
Since the outbreak of war, increased
demand for zinc both in the U.K. and
Australia has necessitated withdrawal
from the co.’s usual markets in India and
Japan. The co. will sell about 3000 tons
of spelter a month to the U.K. at
£AIB 15s. per ton {plus the usual
premium refined E.L. zinc commands
over the g.o.b. variety), or approximately
255. per ton better than last term’s aver-
age market quote. Sales to the Common-
wealth Government will be at reduced
rates. The contract is for the duration
and three months thereafter, with the
British Government’s option to terminate
after buying 36,000 tons of spelter. To
the co. it also means assured realisation
of production, irrespective of shipment
and the vagaries of the freighting and
insurance markets. Since the close of
accounts, however, a new wage award
for Risdon employees has reduced shift
workers’ hours from 44 to 40 per week,
and has provided a five-day week of 44
hours for day workers, with increased
margins in certain cases.
War has meant further delay in deli-
very of plant for the aluminium factory,
and production of magnesium is to be
delayed while the co. watches results
from a new plant in England.
The ords. at 575. (as against 455. 9d. in
July) return 5.2 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div.
basis. On the same basis the prefs. yield
a trifle less at 575. 9d.
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
, —Dividends! —,
_ , Pref. Ord. To Re-
July, Profit. 9'p.c. p.c. Reserves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1929 . . 265,535 236,159 29,376 58,960
Share premiums, etc., £95,000 .. 153,960
9 p.c. 8 p.c.
1930 .. 244,505 192,382 52,123 206,083
9' p.c. 5 p.c.
1931 . . 154,296 152,550 1,746 207,829
9 p.c. 6 p.c.
1932 . . 206,275 167,069 39.206 247 035
1933 .. 217,724 167,705 50,019 297,’054
1934 .. 226,460 168,083 1 „„ „ ’
Tax reserve, £46,000 f 12,377 309.431
Unexplained addition, £16,251 .. 325,682
9 p.c. 7\ p.c.
1935 . . 261,402 194,237 67,165 392,847
9 p.c. 8J p.c.
1936 . . 289,664 211.582 1
Staff fund, £3OOO f 75 > 082 467 » 929
9 p.c. 9 p.c.
1937 .. 321,011 220,210 f q 7 sm 56-730
Staff fund, £3OOO f 97,801 560,730
193 S .. 319,369 220,210 1
Written off, £20,000 f 74,159 639,889
Staff fund, £5OOO
1939 .. 305,080 220.210 f
Written off, £20,000 !- 59.870 699,759
Staff fund, £5OOO J
t Including- employees’ shares.
In little over quarter of a century this
co. has grown to be Australia’s largest
department store. Including the two sub-
sidiaries —Myer Emporium (S. Aus.) and
Myer Woollen Mills there was
£5,855,072 invested in the organisation
according to latest balance sheets ; and
that was after eliminating inter-co. share-
holdings and balances. The whole enter-
prise has been planned on a system of
decentralised co-operative control, with
trained understudies for every important
job. Large-scale buying, manufacture of
much of its own requirements (in addi-
tion to its own woollen mills the co. has
some 33 workrooms in Melbourne), the
position of the store (it is in the centre
of the shopping area in Bourke-street),
a tight hold upon outgoings and forceful
selling methods, which mean extensive
and informative advertising, are some of
the other factors which have contributed
to the success of the business.
Last term drought, bushfires, lower
prices for primary products, the upward
trend of costs and disturbed international
situation all helped to make trading con-
ditions increasingly difficult. Still, sales
were “satisfactorily maintained,” and the
percentage of gross profit and of exes,
to turnover was “held to budgeted levels,”
despite wage-lifts, etc. The contraction
of £14,289 in the year’s net earnings was
due to heavier allowance for taxation
(£75,000, up £15,000). The allowance for
depreciation was disclosed for the first
time at £87,344. The £305,080 netted was
enough to pay the pref. and staff-partner-
ship divs. (together £64,960) and show
13.9 p.c. on ord. capital, compared with
14.7, 14.7, 13, 11.3, 9, 8.9, 8.2, 5.1 and
10.9 p.c. back to 1930. The div. was kept
at 6 p.c., and a 3 p.c. bonus was again
added, making 9 p.c. for the year. Of the
£84,870 that remained, £20,000 was
written off premises, £5OOO was sent to
the staff fund and £59,870 was added to
the visible lay-by, raising it £699,759 in
excess of goodwill (£250,000), not treated
as an asset herein.
Here are balance-sheet figures:—•
1936. 1938. , 1939.
Paid capital . . £2,479,950 £2,479,950 £2,479,950
Mortgages.. .. 662,150' 516,650 441,500
S’undry creditors. . 578,230 778,441 677,474
Freeholds, lease-
holds, etc. . . 2,046,098 2,105,195 2,079,899
Plant, vehicles, etc. 256,666 269,786 259,920
Shares in other cos. 447,247 441,309 441,309
Stocks . . . . 1,045,363 1,093,863 1,061,453
Debtors .. ... 543,414 706,997 681,341
Cash, etc 30,504 25,314 23,306
To lop £176,117 off the amount coming
to outsiders the book value of fixed assets
was reduced by £35,162 net, stocks by
£32,410, debtors’ balances by £25,656
and cash, etc., by £2OOB. Including
shares in other cos., the more or less
liquid surplus improved by £116,043,
reaching £1,088,435.
As for the current term, the big prob-
lem promises to be expanding operating
and other costs, including taxation. There
will be more money about, owing to
British purchase of our chief exports at
satisfactory figures and to our own de-
fence expenditure. But much of the extra
money will be mopped up by the Gov-
ernment in loans and taxes. Also, de-
partment stores are likely to replace some
of their imports by local manufactures,
because of the rise in the cost of import-
ing. However, since the close of ac-
counts and before the outbreak of war,
the co., which imports only about one-
quarter of its total requirements, substan-
tially increased both its local and overseas
purchases, and the stock position at the
moment is reported “well covered.”
At 295., same as a year ago and
345. 12 months before that, the f.-p.
pound ords. return 6.3 p.c. on a 9 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. at 31s. 6d.
yield 5.7 p.c. On the basis of consoli-
dated balance-sheet figures, the net tan-
gible cover is £5 17s. prefs. and 355. 9d.
ords. -•
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
bept., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 15,541 10 p.c. = 11,000 4541 46,289
1930.. 15,441 10 „ „ 11,000 4441 50,730
1931.. 11,675 7 „ „ 7,700 3975 54,705
1932.. 9,168 6 „ „ 6,600 2568 57,273
1933.. 8,712 6 „ „ 6,600 2112 59,385
1934.. 8,962 6 „ „ 6,600 2362 61,747
1935.. 9,109 6 „ „ 6,600 2509 64,256
1936.. 11,030 7 „ „ 7,700 3930 68,186
1937.. 12,762 10 „ „ 11,000 1762 69.948
1938.. 12,180 10 ~ ~ IT.OOO 1180 71,128
1939.. 12,232 10 „ „ 11,000 1232 72,360
Trustee cos. in N. S. Wales have had
a very big worry on their hands of late.
The Mair Government brought down a
Stamp Duties Amendment Bill that
sought to impose succession duties (for
the first time in the State) in a very hap-
hazard and unfair way, and to tax settle-
ments in the hands of a beneficiary ac
the rate appropriate to an entire estate.
It was a hotchpotch sort of bill, and,
among other things, it threatened to
drive business away from N. S. Wales
trustee cos., to further swell the civil
service, and to worry private executors
to death. The worst feature of the bill
was that its provisions were mostly
retroactive.
The succession-duties measure was
eventually modified and the settlement


BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 87 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
rari«F
¥
¥
83 veabs in BATHURST
On February 12. 1851, Edward Hargreaves went prospecting tor gold
and found it on a tributary of the Macquarie River at what is now Ophir,
not far from Bathurst. By the end of April Sydney was ringing with the
news, and the first Australian gold-rush started.
The Bank of New South Wales opened a branch at Bathurst on September
8, 1856. A large proportion of the gold taken from the Sofala, Hill End,
and Sunny Corner gold-fields was deposited with this Bank, from where it
was carried to Sydney by coach under the old gold escorts.
The Bank of New South Wales, from the early gold-rush days, has been
closely associated with the development of Bathurst, which is now the
centre of a district famous for the wealth of its pastoral and agricultural
produce.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
491 A. 1939
Jnouedt
CHEtfBOLETS BEST IffILUE
AT TODAYS PRICE/"
888888
i
■
Wf
i
OPEN MODELS from - - £312
CLOSED MODELS from - £332
Easy Term* Available Under Confidential
G.M.A.C. Plan
EVERY comparison, every test of low-priced cars proves
Chevrolet’s amazing value. There’s at least £5O extra
value in this beautiful, completely modern Chevrolet and
at today’s price it is definitely the soundest motor car
investment in Australia. And because it is the most
popular car on the market, it will command the highest
resale value. With Chevrolet too, you are assured of the
future availability of service facilities and spare parts, a
big percentage of which are made in Australia. Take
advantage of current prices see your local dealer now
and arrange to road-test this thrillingly beautiful Chevrolet.
Remember: Now’s the time to buy!
SeeiheTtew ,£uklnijiCstbnubu
FEATURES INCLUDE:
Six-cylinder Overhead Valve
Engine
Pilot-Seat Driving Vision
Holden All-steel Body
Perfected Independent Front
Wheel Springing (Master de Luxe)
Pullman Ride (Standard Models)
Perfected Hydraulic Brakes
Vacuum-assisted Gearshift
(Master de Luxe)
"AIR CHIEF" CAR RADIO -There's a model
specially designed for Chevrolet at prices from
15 Guineas. Ask for a demonstration.
CHEVROLET
CONSULT YOUR LOCAL
AUTHORISED CHEVROLET DEALER
Sold and Serviced by Chevrolet Dealers throughout Australia. GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN'S LIMITED. rfi9B-27
duty eliminated. The measure, which is
still clumsy, obscure and as full of pricks
as a porcupine, has now become law.
It provides that settled property not
included in the dutiable estate of a
settlor should be brought into the duti-
able estate of the life tenant without
aggregation and death duty paid thereon
at the full rate. With regard to
succession duties, instead of duty being
paid at the death of a testator and again
on the full estate at the death of a life
tenant, the succession duty must be paid
only on the value as at date of death of
the life tenant ascertained on a 3 p.c.
basis for the period of the enjoyment of
the life interest. But the provision is
still retroactive, and the “3 p.c. basis”
is something nine out of ten Parliamen-
tarians who voted on the measure could
not possibly understand.
Up to the end of September the Per-
manent’s business was not, of course, in
any way affected by this legislation.
Private executorships are becoming less
frequent than ever, and corporate
trustees are having more and more estates
passed into their keeping. Of recent
years, too, realisation of properties, etc.,
has been facilitated by fairly prosperous
times, enabling trustees to benefit from
commissions on realisation.
This tabulation shows how the funds
in the Permanent’s care have expanded
over a lengthy period:
Exes. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings.
1910.. £3,029,970 £11,743 £4,930 42.0 p.c.
1920.. 6,349,568 24,948 15,689 62.9 „
1925.. 9,895,117 42,950 27,771 64.7 „
1930.. 15,975,572 61,899 45,858 74.0 „
1931.. 16,777,007 61,944 49,669 80.2 „
1932.. 17,909,175 57,881 48,114 83.1 „
1933.. 18,150,645 54,663 45,350 82.9 „
1934.. 19,048,865 54,142 44,580 82.3 „
1935.. 19,613,027 54,410 44,700 82.1 „
1936.. 20,191,487 60,662 48,431 79.8 „
1937.. 20,612,149 65,875 52,513 79.7 ~
1938.. 21.117,323 70,121 57,341 81.7 „
1939.. 21,890,250 72,998 60,166 82.4 „
The co.’s income in the way of com-
missions, etc., expanded £2877 last term,
but exes., which have been steadily in-
creasing in rate since the depression
(largely owing to additional taxes, etc.,
being loaded on to these cos.), also in-
creased by £2825, so that net (£12,232)
benefited by only £52. The result repre-
sented 11.1 p.c. on capital, compared with
11, 11.6, 10.5, 8.2 and 8.1 p.c. back to
1934. The 10 p.c. div. was repeated,
and reserves, now £72,360, benefited by
£1232.
The co.’s own funds, besides £8692
owing to outsiders, were invested in
satisfactory securities last balance day.
Mortgages totalled £81,055, premises
£54,921, Government deposit £20,000,
Consols £15,474, and cash, etc., £26,804.
Capital is £llO,OO0 —£50,000 represents
bonus scrip—in 200,000 £5 shares paid
to 11s. each. At 19s. 9d. the scrip shows
no fluctuation in the market compared
with a year ago, and yields 5.6 p.c. Net
tangible backing amounts to 18s. 2d. per
share.
Burma Malay Tin, Ltd.
At £15,664 stg., of which £7500 was
paid away in a shilling div., this prospect-
ing, finance and holding co.’s profit for
the 12 months to March 31 compares
with £57,913 in the preceding term. That
was after capitalising 1938-39 develop-
ment expenditure, £17,607. The ’3B
figure, however, included a surplus of
£38,267 on disposal of the Sydney-Siam
property to Siamese Tin. Simpli-
fied, the latest accounts show sharehold-
ings under market value at £116,905, de-
bentures and advances £55,273, Consols
and cash £44,092, prospecting account
£17,607 ; creditors were owed £32,366 (all
sterling currency).
The co. was formed in 1925 to prospect
for tin in Siam. After launching of the
Renong and Katu cos., prohibition of
prospecting caused attention to be turned
to Australasia, where Briseis Tin (Derby,
Tas.) and Mataki Junction Gold Dredg-
ing (M.L.) have been brought to pro-
duction. Following lifting of the pros-
pecting ban, operations have lately again
been re-directed towards Asia.
Shareholdings, and divs. received there-
from in the period covered by B.M.’s
accounts, now comprise:
Issued B.M.’s r~ — Divs. \
Capital. Holding. P.c. 1938. 1939.
Renong .. £160,000 £39,140 24.4 35 p.c. 12* p.c.
Katu . . 150,000 38,290 25.5 20 „ 10 „
Ratrut .. 121,287 7,000* 5.7
Briseis . . 150,000 31,463 20.9 10 p.c.
Mataki June. 50,000 5,500 11.0 10 „
Sesame Gold 100,000 22,000 22.0
Puket
Alluvials 10,000 10,000 100.0
Sangka Dua $22,000
*lO p.c. Ist prefs. Australian interests m
Australian currency.
Burma Malay manages the bunch.
Other interests include a lode-tin pro-
position in process of development at
Ottery, 15 miles from Deepwater
(N.S.W.), where prospects have become
clouded following faulting of the ore-
body, and Mitchell River Gold, Ltd.
(now sluicing at Amosfield, S.Q.), to
which B.M. has advanced £A12,688. An
option has also been obtained from
Bundi Dredging over 600 acres of gold-
bearing wash on the New River (M.L.).
Renong and Katu have long been the
backbone of investment revenue. Katu
is handicapped by a comparatively
small assessment, but has some 19 years’
work ahead in even (approx. fib.) ground.
On a full quota Renong’s life is put at
seven years, or 11 years on a 70 p.c.
quota, mainly in tailings averaging
around half a pound oxide. Puket
Alluvials, however, is offering the co.
a 15,000,000 c.y. block averaging fib.
t.o. near Katu’s property at Chelong.
Terms aren’t stated.
Ratrut Basin’s property at Sichon is
being worked by Burma Malay under
tribute agreement —profits to be split
equitably between the two cos. The
wash has been bored to go a pound a
yard, but is hard and bouldery, making
dredging difficult and costs high. A small
profit was shown last term, and the re-
conditioned dredge is now showing im-
proved recoveries. Burma Malay has an


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL, STREET - SYDNEY
ACTS AS
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is always available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
£; E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddom K.8.E., M.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY BOOKLET .)
fgjh
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD
Financial Brokers and Underwriters.
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasrnania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
1 8 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PATENTS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists.
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
LET
r ATLAS )
CARRY THE
BURDEN i
W
M
10.
Established 1808.
Every Kind of
FIRE
ACCIDENT
MARINE
Insurance Business Transacted.
Write or Call upon the Agent in your district
for particulars. Prompt attention assured.
Or apply—
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. Y. ELDER, Asst. Manager.
Queensland Branch: Eagle Street, Brisbane.
South Aus. Branch: Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
Western Aus. Branch: Esplanade, Perth.
Victorian Branch: 406 Collins St., Melbourne.
D. NORMAN TRENERY,
Manager for Australia and New Zealand.
fj
g
ENDURA
Pens-Pencils-Sets
The world knows
its Conklin
It is, perhaps, too much to
say that every Conklin
“Endura” Pen knows the
world, but it is no exag-
geration to say that the
world knows Conklin
“Endura” Pens. Individu-
ally, they are not gad-
abouts they stick re-
ligiously to their owners.
But, taken collectively, they
are the most cosmopolitan
things in the world —they
are seen, and are at work,
in every country. They
are not linguists in the
sense that they can speak
every tongue, but they can
and do write every lan-
guage. No bubble repu-
tation this, bestowed in
secret conclave, but fame
as deep and lasting as the
unconditional, g u a r a n tee
which is inseparably associ-
ated with the creation of
every “Endura” Pen or
Pencil.
The Pens are priced at
30/- and 40/-. Pencils
to match 25/-. Com-
plete Sets in Presentation
Cases, 55/- and 65/-.
From all Stationers,
Jewellers and Departmental
Stores everywhere.
" QUALCAST 11
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MOTOR
MOWER
ĝ
33
Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
Hundreds
have now
been sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qualcast" Lawnmowers
MODEL “II”: 10in.12in.14in.16in.
Bronze Bearing .. 38/- 41/- 44/-
Ball Bearing .... 44/- 47/- 50/- 53/-
Super “7” Ball B. 56/- 60/- 64/-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY
all leading hardware stores
option over a further 12,094 10 p.c. first
prefs. till 1941.
Sesame Gold, N.L., working what J.
Atkinson considers a promising gold
reef at Batlow (N.S.W.), is an addition
io the list since the close of accounts.
It has an issued capital of £lOO,OOO in
ss. shares, of which half were handed out
as fully paid- 88,000 to Burma Malay,
80,000 to L Aiglon Gold and Tin and
32,000 to the original vendor—-and half
were subscribed for cash. Production at
the rate of 800-1000 tons monthly with
15-head of stamps is scheduled for late-
March or early-April. The main shaft
is down 125 ft., with the reef in the shaft,
and driving north and south for 100 ft.
has indicated 16.3dwt. values over an
average width of 24in.
Of the other interests, the Maoriland
gold venture, which is receiving the
“closest attention,” continues to be a dis-
appointment, but Briseis Tin will show
a better return this term, Sangka Dua
Development has optioned its tin lode
near Kuala Lumpur (F.M.S.) to a large
mining group on “favorable” terms, while
Puket Alluvials has bored two areas in
Asia and scoutbored another, and is ne-
gotiating for their sale.
Burma Malay has 150,000 shares out,
fully paid to £l. They have moved from
245. to 295. 3d. in the sharemarket since
the beginning of September.
The Bank of England’s buying price
for gold is £8 Bs. sterling per fine ounce.
In the U.S.A. gold sells at 35 dollars the
ounce. At the “carded” rate of exchange
(4.03 dollars to the £) between London
and New York, gold is worth the equiva-
lent of £8 13s. 6d. sterling in U.S.A. At
the open market rate of 3.85 dollars to
the £ touched on Nov. 9 an ounce of
fine gold could have been exchanged for
£9 Is. lOd. sterling in New York.
* * * *
Great Boulder (W.A.) has been pushing
the ore through its plant these last four
months, the average being un about
6500 tons a month at 38,500. July, the
first month of increased milling opera-
tions, apparently dealt with a large pro-
portion of low-grade ore, and returns
were comparatively low ; but since then
recoveries have been more in keeping
with previous experience, though the in-
creased price of gold has helped to swell
the money value of the yields. During
the first nine months of 1938-39 the
mine’s recoveries averaged 465. 7d. (Aust.)
a ton. For the three months to Sept. 30
last the average was 455. 2d., but relative
costs were 295. lOd. and 27,5. 3d. respec-
tively. The enlarged plant, assisted by the
highei gold price, is therefore already to
the good on a per-ton basis, and as it
becomes more efficient the margin should
improve. The later months, in fact,
have been better than the earlier —in
Sept, returns were 475. 6d.,' costs 275. If
recovered values and costs were no better
than for the Sept, quarter in the future,
a mine profit of £414,000 (Aust.) a year
could be looked for, against £286,333 in
1938. It would call for £235,000 (Aust.)
to pay Is. 6d. (stg.) a year in divs. Capi-
tal outlay on plant, etc., is now falling
off; shareholders have been yelling that
it should.
* * *
Westralian Arbitration Court was asked
this the other day: When the price of
fine gold in Australian currency is fixed
at, say, £lO 11s. per ounce, and an excess
duty of 15s. 6d. per ounce is levied at
the source, leaving a net price of £9
15s. 6d., ,on what price is the industry
allowance determinable? The Court said
it would give a reply later. Westralian
goldmining workers at present receive a
bonus of 12s. a week on the basis of gold
at £8 10s. per ounce, and with every 10s.
rise or fall the allowance is increased or
decreased 2s. a week, adjustments
quarterly.
* * * *
Ora Banda Mines, N.L. (W.A.), which
first made money out of some Ora Banda
blocks and now reckons that it will do
likewise at Marie’s Find, on the Yilgarn
field, shows last year’s profit at £4210-
costs were 695. 2d., including develop-
ment, and recoveries were 10.7dwt.
Manager estimates ore reserves at 7000
tons, averaging 14.1dwt., equivalent to
two years’ life at the present rate of out-
put. A profit of 575. a ton is hoped for
with costs at 60s. and recoveries of 13dwt.
With cash and bullion in course of
realisation amounting to £4789, addi-
tional power equipment is being in-
stalled and the purchase of a cyanide
plant is under consideration.
* * * *
Yellowdine Gold Areas (W.A.) has
bought a five-head mill, rock-breaker,
engine, etc., for £lOOO. Manager’s reports
continue optimistic. The latest states
that of 63 tons of ore recently hauled 30
tons assayed over 2oz. a ton, with values
of the rest still to come.
* * * *
Consolidated Gold Areas (W.A.) is
issuing 300,000 of the 500,000 2s. shares
of its subsidiary, Blue Spec, at Nullagine.
Of the balance, 50,000 are to remain
under option to the original vendor and
150,000 are earmarked for application by
Consolidated Gold Areas at par. There
is a treatment plant on the Blue Spec,
but no water for crushing.
a $ a
Mt. Morgan (Q.) can see its water
supply safe for at least another year.
Wells have brought in fresh reserves, but
an inch and a half of rain, falling in
under an hour last Thursday, filled the
lower dam and made an impression on
the big one. The smelter is now run-
ning smoothly and has overtaken all
arrears of concentrates stacked during
the recent holdup in that section. An
improved return for the next four-weekly
period is looming up already.
New Gympie (Gympie, Q.) is still in
poor slate with plenty of quartzy spurs.
The reefs continue to provide free colors
of gold, but they are very fine, and the
quality is reflected in the last crushing—-
60 tons for approximately lldwt. stan-
dard gold per ton. The old hands reckon
that the coarse gold will not come in till
a good black slate crosses the reef. They
pin their faith on the plumbago “break,”
but are reluctantly coming to the opinion
that plumbago is “light on” over the
northern section of the Gympie field.
Colin Fraser considered this end of the
field very exhaustively about eight years
ago, and then turned it down. Perhaps
he had an inkling of this oossibilitv then.
S! >5 S O
A considerable length of the Granite
Castle reef at Mt. Emu (N.Q.) has been
taken up and regular ore shipments are
going to the Chillagoe smelters. Those
concerned are therefore trying to raise
interest in a battery for the field. The
Castle had a good tryout 30 years ago,
and proved to be a reef up to sft. wide.
It was then anything but an easy ore for
battery treatment on account of lead
carbonates. Ore was fairly good quality,
monthly assays ranging from sdwt. to
2oz. a ton. It might be a good proposi-
tion to have a practical battery test of a
trial lot before sinking cold cash in a
local battery.
$ % if
A couple of prospectors —Owens and
Cottar —are reported to have struck rich
bagging ore near the surface of the
Three Star claim, Herberton (N.Q.). A
pipe of ore was worked here to between
300 ft. and 400 ft. The new find prospects
to 30 p.c. tin oxide, and may yet make
into something similar.
* * O Ci
Australian gold production for 1939
looks like pipping the ’3B figure of
1,590,406 fine ounces (worth £A 14,012,414)
by around 35,000 fine ounces. For the
eight months to August outturn was
1,036,116 fine ounces, valued at
£A9,513,410, up £A699,115, owing partly
to the rise in the price of the metal in
terms of sterling. Individual State con-
tributions have been: —
, 1938 >, , —1939-
Fine Fine
State. Ounces. Value. Ounces. Value.
£A. £A.
S.W. . . 58,069 503,830 53,765 493,523
Victoria .. 86,767 752,643 90,594 831,906
w iai.u . . 90,124 833,510 93,645 859,593
W. Aust. . . 749,755 6,500,040 775,330 7,119.234
Other States .25,860 224,272 22,782 209,154
Total . . 1,016,575 8,814,295 1,036,116 9,513,410
Contraction of the N.S.W. and Queens-
land figures has been more than com-
pensated for by better returns from West-
ralia and Victoria, the latter of which,
thanks largely to Newstead and Bendigo,
promises to again oust Queensland for
second place when the year’s final figures
go up.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
Investor: Shares should prove sound holding.
Apparent sharp decline in market quotes is
due to the scrip now being ex rights to a
one-for-five new issue at par J.C.: Don’t
like the proposition; suggest you cut your
losses... .A.V.: Associated Pulp and Paper
Mills (Burnie, Tas.) turns out fine writing and
printing papers. The board comprises knights
Walter Massy-Greene, Colin Fraser and Gerald
Mussen, and M. L. Baillieu, Hon. Harold E.
Cohen, M.L.C., and H. St. John Somerset.
Australian Paper Manufacturers, of Sydney
and Melbourne, is the concern producing Kraft
wrapping paper and paper board S.W.: In-
vestigating.


SMOKE-OH!
“Husbands frequently spend too much on
their recreations.” — Women’s paper.
Yes, many a man’s pastime is a little
dear!
4 4 4 4
“Fully 55 p.c. of the world’s inhabitants live
under some form of dictatorship.”
— “World’s News.
This is made up of all Germans, Rus-
sians, Italians and married men of other
races.
4 4 4 4
“Do you know what goes on behind the
footlights? ”
We were under the impression that
almost everything went off there.
•i*
Woman’s ambition once was to be
ladylike; now it is to be laddie-like.
4 4 4 4
“Statistics prove that one person in three is
suffering from some ailment due to malnu-
trition.”—O.F.M. contributor.
We had no idea there were so many
people boarding.
•I* *l*
“What is Australia’s National Anthem?”
asks correspondent.
“They’re Off!”
4 4 4 4
“Several Royal Academy artists have offered
their services to the War Office.” — News item.
To draw the enemy’s fire?
•fr & & ,
“Most people with really big salaries don t
talk about them.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
Especially when income-tax 'officials
are about.
44 4 4
“Wear the new telescopic bathing suits.”
— Advt.
For telescopic read microscopic.
4 4 4 4
People who live in glass houses
shouldn’t throw parties.
•J*
“People born between the 24th and 31st
of December are usually unlucky.”
—Radio astrologer.
Particularly as to birthday presents.
“Portrait painter ruined through gambling.”
Apparently he couldn’t head them
successfully.
4* 4 4* 4*
“These statements must be treated with a
grain of salt.”— Prof. S. Roberts.
He’s telling us!
4 4 4 4
“Sydney men should this year appear in an
outfit of shorts, open-neck shirt, shoes and
golf socks, or sandals.”
— “Telegraph” correspondent.
Khaki outfits are available, too.
“What ribbon is that? I don't seem to know it.”
“ It's a bit I cut off me sheilah's 'at , sir.”
“No award for firemen.” — “S. M. Herald.”
They’re hot under the collar about
their log going to blazes.
44 4 4
“How to turn editors’ regrets into congratu-
lations.” — Literary course.
Stop writing.
4* 4* 4* 4
“People who own motor-cars usually haven’t
a book in their house.” — Librarian.
Except the time-payment one on the
car.
4 4* 4* 4*
Some punters are so unlucky that even
when they back their cars in the city
they don’t get a place.
Research.
“It has been suggested that women should
use a liquid substitute for stockings.”
—“Daily News.”
With an air of dithered solemnity he
poured a quantity of his wife’s stocking
mixture into a tumbler. He added a
liberal supply of whisky, shook the con-
coction, then held it up to the light.
“Thish ish experimentsh! ” he ex-
claimed. “Whisky always makes me see
shnakesh. Wanna find out if thish cock-
tail —hie—makesh me see shnakesh and
laddersh! ”
T. W. N.
Soft Memories.
“Military canteens now carry large ( stocks of
fruit juices, cordials and ice-cream.”
—Sydney paper.
Amidst a sacred, solemn hush
His comrades sipped their orange-crush,
In memory of one who’d been
The victim of a dry canteen.
Poor Private Buggins was, alas!
So full of ginger-pop and gas
He floated through the air with ease,
Just like the man on the trapeze.
But foemen’s bullets zipped and sang,
And Buggins went off with a bang —
A hero who no doubt has made
This country safe for lemonade!
D. McM.
Gesture.
The final race had just been run,
The punter bowed his head;
He did so out of deep respect —
He knew his horse was “dead.”
PATON.
A New Book.
Though it may not be read from cover
to cover, few booklovers will fail to
browse, at some time or other, through
Names and Numbers, a new work by
E. J. Harrison, P.M.G., G.P.0., from the
publishing house of Messrs. Harrison
and Co. Fittingly enough, the publishers
have chosen the prevailing khaki color
for their binding.
Though the preface, with its reference
to mysterious code numbers, suggests a
spy story, the work remains its old fas-
cinating self, and there should be many
happy hours hunting for the solutions to
the various problems it presents.
Though the author has a serious
purpose, the work is not without humor,
as the following extract will show:
Assuming the number is “JW9615.”
Place your finger in the opening over
the letter J.
Move the dial clockwise until you strike
the finger stop. [Right here is where this
reviewer encountered some difficulty.
Trying to move his dial clockwise, he got
a bad crick in the neck, and found that,
owing to the queer position of his eyes,
he was unable to strike the finger stop.]
Remove your finger and allow the dial to
return unaided to its former position.
Removing the finger was easy enough,
but the services of a masseuse, two
wheatlumpers and an amateur sculptor
had to be called in to make the dial
return to normal. Even now there
appears to be a slight squint, and one ear
is distinctly out of perspective.
Generally, however, the book should
make a genuine appeal, at all events
to Sydney readers, who will find much
of interest from “A. and A. Foundry
at the beginning to “Zyp” at the end.
Illustrations are of the usual standard.
One on p. 79 of Little Boy Blue suck-
ing ice-cream through the bottom of
a cone while riding a champion Clydes-
dale stallion with smooth fetlocks is very
typical of the Post Telegraphist school.
Though far from being the “great Aus-
tralian novel,” Mr. Harrison’s latest book
should find a place in our national life.
No doubt we shall hear from him again.
M8.
Love and Gastronomy.
“An inmate of Fremantle prison who had
swallowed pieces of metal, nails, pins and razor-
blades said he had done it for the love of a
girl.”
That reminds me of the days when
Maria and I were first married, and very
much in love.
When she asked me how the roast
lamb was I would tell her that the gravy
was very tender, so as not to hurt her
feelings.
“What would you like for breakfast,
darling?” Maria would ask.
“Whatever you like, sweetest,” I would
reply. “A little bit of the kitchen table,
fried, with gas-stove-varnish gravy and
burnt onions.”
And I would get it, or something like
it. What meals those were! One of
Maria’s masterpieces was an Irish stew
made of leather and scrap-iron with old
tennis-ball dumplings—at least, it tasted
like that.
One day I congratulated her on her
cleverness in cooking an old feather
mattress.
“I’m afraid, sweetheart,” Maria
faltered, “I didn’t realise you had to
pluck a fowl before you cooked it.”
“Not at all, darling,” I assured her.
“The feathers were the best part of it.”
Maria says that my habit of being
sarcastic spoiled our life; but in spite
of what she says I like to remember
the times when we lived on a variety of
stuff that looked and tasted like burnt
metal scraps. It is different to-day when
I come home and inquire about dinner.
“Of course it’s ready,” snaps Maria.
“I’m going over to Bertha’s for tea my-
self. You’ll find the tin of salmon in
the cupboard.”
I sigh sometimes for a nice bit of
fricasseed sewing-machine served up with
cotton-snips sauce.
H. M.
Novel Situations.
“Literary ambitions crop up in unlikely
places. In Sydney a bus conductor and a
postman are trying their hand at writing
romances during their spare time.”
—Sydney paper.
The bus conductor, of course, will
write his novel in sections. If he runs
true to form, he’ll cram as many charac-
ters as he can into an omnibus volume.
The villain will have tickets on himself
and play havoc with fare maidens. Title,
For Wheel or for Whoa.
The postman will be able to lick his
yarn into shape with people of the right
stamp. The bad man will be well posted
about the hero’s movements. The heroine
will foil him and herself by addressing
her letters with invisible ink. Title,
Letter Rip.
But suppose this novel writing be-
comes an ocupational disease!
Listen to Sergeant Bugwhisker, inter-
rupted by the ’phone just as he was
manoeuvring his villain into an awkward
fix.
“ ’Ullo! What the ’ell do you mean
by What’s that? A bloke murdering
’is tabby? With a crosscut saw!
Hooray! What a snifter idea for my
thriller, The Blood-stained Bushmanl
Buy a copy, lad. I’m only putting out
one edition, to be sold at seven and a
zack. Get in early! What’s that? The
murderer? Aw, ring up Number Three ;
those lazy cows down there only write
short stories. Tooraloo!”
D. McM.
Apparent Error.
“The doctor declared that the worker’s stiff
knee joint was not due to the injury but was
the result of chronic alcoholism.”
— Workers’ compensation case.
My views may need defending;
But, still „ I’m doubtful if
Continued elbow-bending
Could make a knee-joint stiff.
NAT.
Around the Army.
I.
THE GENERAL.
Next to the cook and that amicus
humani generis who presides over the
rum jar, the most important man in the
army is the general.
Generals are of various calibres,
ranging from the humble brig, to the
full general who wields a whole army.
This juggling with astronomical numbers
of men gives rise to a contemptuous
regard for what laymen would consider
colossal figures. Thus, the G.5.0.l may
come in as the general is poring over a
map.
“I’ve been in touch with G.H.Q., sir.
They say they can spare only 80,000 for
our local operation.”
“What! Only a measly 80,000!” ex-
plodes the general. “Dammit! Do they
think I’m still running a lousy little one-
horse show against a Boer commando?
Tell them if they want this salient
straightened out I must have at least
150,000 men. No, Smithers, you’d better
make it 250,000 and be on the safe side.
They’ll have to get ’em.”
Having got used to dealing with men
in such large numbers, generals when they
return to civvy life find it difficult to
adjust their ideas to the changed condi-
tions. When, by virtue of his ability to
lay down an accurate barrage, a general
is elected to the board of, say, a lolly
manufacturing co., he immediately brings
up the question of the number of em-
ployees in his new command.
“How many have
we got on our
strength?” he’ll ask
the secretary.
“We have ap-
proximately forty
employees.”
“Bah! Not even
a platoon! We’ll
have to put on a
couple of hundred
more and bring it up
to full company
strength.”
That’s why gen-
erals are always
shifting from the
board of one co. to
another.
It is axiomatic in
the army that, the
more grandiose a
general’s title, the
greater is the degree
of familiarity with
which his name ; s
bandied about
among his troops.
Thus, Major-General
Sir Bloodwing Blis-
ter er, K.C.V.0.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., V.D., will probably be
referred to by the swaddies as “Lolly-
Legs” or “Gravy-Eyes.” If he is extremely
popular he might even qualify for “the old
blankard,” an affectionate title which will
always bring a gleam of pride to the eyes
of any general who happens to overhear
his troops thus refer to him.
Although a general’s frown may set
the whole of his staff trembling, there is
one man in his entourage who has him
properly bluffed —his dingbat. _ Any
general’s dingbat will vouch for this.
Let us listen-in to the general’s tent of
a morning.
“Robinson! Is this the only pair of
socks I’ve got? Hang it, I’ve worn them
for a week now.”
“Ar, they’re all right. Wear ’em for
another week an’ the soles’ll be wore out
of ’em. Then you can pull ’em up an’
use ’em as underpants.”
“Dammit, man, you haven’t cleaned
my Sam Browne yet!”
“Square up! D’you think a man stops
up all night polishin’ yer gear?”
And not only does he take no back-
slack from his brasshat boss, but he also
freely criticises his tactics, which the
general, of course, always discusses with
him.
“Well, I’ve decided to deploy against
the Bosche to-morrow, Robinson.”
“Yair? Well, you’ll come a gutser.
Wot about yer left flank? An’ call me
Robbo. The rest o’ the mob do.”
“All right, Robbo. What do you sug-
gest then?”
“Frontal attack. Go ’im scone-’ot. Our
blokes can clean them square-’eaded cows
up. Give it a burl.”
“Yes, I think you’re right, Robbo. I’ll
try it.”
S. W. K.


cr=a
U|
nl
C. D. MACLURCAN: Managing Director
SYDNEY
Wm,
Stay at the Wentworth, and enjoy the REAL hospitality for which
this hotel is famed. The Wentworth is close to business and social
centres yet free from traffic noises. Modern appointments include
new bedrooms with telephones, private bathrooms and toilets.
TARIFF: Room and Breakfast from 13/6, inclusive from 20/-. Our
tariff remains constant the year round; we do NOT follow the
policy of increasing tariff during Christmas, Easter or any other
season.
STAY AT THE WENTWORTH
Are You About to Travel?
TF you are going abroad and require expert management of your affairs during your
-1 absence, you cannot do better than appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited,
to act as Attorney or Agent. The Company offers the services of a staff highly
qualified to manage all details of your affairs. It can arrange to make regular
payments to you in any part of the world. You are invited to make an appointment
with a senior officer of the Company to discuss its methods and charge. You might
prefer to write for an explanatory booklet?
Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited
DIRECTORS;
T. H. Kelly (Chairman), Lieut.-Col. the Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R. Knox,
K. de L. Cudmore, H. Norman Pope, Allen C. Lewis.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. P. Cureton, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds Under Administration Exceed £54,000,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St. John’s
College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees,
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £45 per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the Will of the late
James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their
sons to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at
the University of Sydney, or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the
case may be.
Forms of application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the sth January,
1940, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later
than the 9th February 19'40, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and
’further particulars may be obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Hey-ho! Away We Go!
In the midst of the cares and worries
of this war—anxieties that are not less-
ened by the wishy-washy front presented
by our Governments to anything that
remotely resembles a problem—things
are happening that promise to change the
financial fortunes of a number of persons
and industries. In the name of defence
millions of pounds—£6l,ooo,ooo in 1939-
40 alone—are to be borrowed, levied and
spent.
There has already been a noticeable
amount of sliding in and out of jobs with
regard to new or expanded boards, de-
partments, commissions and what-not,
and the hangers-on waiting for “some-
thing to turn up” must be legion. When
money is being spent quickly and lavishly,
especially by professional politicians,
waste becomes an insidious national
enemy.
The chopping and changing and mis-
takes that have taken place in the poli-
tical and official defence programme may
have cost us the price of a squadron of
aircraft already. We don’t know the
amount for certain, but taking a look at
the visible bungling we can make a guess
at the invisible. The great trouble is
that with a matter like defence the obvi-
ous need for secrecy is also a cloak for
inefficiency, muddle, etc. But there are
other matters which don’t represent offi-
cial secrets that have a very important
bearing on national affairs during this
trouble in which we are involved.
We have contracted to sell much of our
surplus production to Britain at prices
better than those prevailing before the
outbreak of war. Prices for the most
part are fixed in that now-rather-
volatile currency, sterling. Considering
the possibility of inflation in sterling—it
may be great, small or almost unnotice-
able, according to the progress of the war
—we have not driven a hard bargain with
Britain ; and that is entirely as it should
be. Considering the probability of inflat-
ing costs within the Commonwealth, our
land men cannot look forward to the
future without some honest doubts.
But the probability of a rise in the
monetary value of our exports for 1939-
40 at least, the possibility that the dis-
organisation of Britain’s manufacturing
and shipping activities will give an im-
pulse to new and existing Australian
secondary industries, and the chances of
money and credit being inflated by the
waste of war and the waste of Govern-
ments have combined to produce a bois-
terous atmosphere of optimism in some
sections of our community. It was par-
ticularly noticeable in the sharemarkets
last week.
So far as good properties, industries,
commodities, etc., and equities therein
represent real wealth, and so far as
money in the bank is but a token, the
idea of acquiring interests in such things
now, within reason and within the limits
of one’s purse, is sound enough. Aus-
tralia, a growing country, must have
growing industries, and the past proves
that it is in times like the present that
new industries become established. But
anyone gambling on the future will find
the outlook, if he studies it, decidedly
mixed.
Authorities have estimated that Aus-
tralia’s wool cheque for the current finan-
cial year may run to £56,000,000. In
addition, there is fd. a pound handling
charges allowed at the Australian end of
Britain’s deal, which should mean an
extra £3,000,000 to be spent in this coun-
try, bringing in altogether something not
much short of £59,000,000 (Australian
currency) for the product of the sheep’s
back. Allowing for Australian consump-
tion of the staple, our wool income from
overseas should be not less than
£52,000,000 for 1939-40, compared with
£42,000,000 in 1938-39 and £46,000,000
in 1937-38. In 1936-37, when our wool
cheque rose to the record figure of
£66,000,000, export values were about
£62,000,000, though recorded export
values always include some addition to
the ordinary greasy price because of the
shipment of 9 p.c., or 10 p.c. of the clip
in the shape of scoured wool, tops, noils,
etc.
Butter, usually occupying fourth place
among our exports (wheat and gold
second and third respectively), has been
sold to Britain at 1365, Australian a cwt.
for choicest, f.o.b. Australian ports. That
is a good price, something better than
the average of recent years. And so long
as shipping between Britain and Scandi-
navia and Denmark is carried on pre-
cariously, the demand for Australian
butter in London should be keen. Our
meat has been disposed of at approxi-
mately 1938 prices, a better income is
assured for the export surplus of sugar,
and returns for lead and spelter will be
substantially higher, though not so high
as for 1937-38.
Gold, of which we turn out about
1,600,000 fine ounces annually, has risen
by over 225. 6d. (Aust.) per ounce (to
£lO 10s.) since shortly before the out-
break of war. The Federal Gov-
ernment takes portion of the in-
creased price (50 p.c. of the excess over
£9 an ounce), but the entire proceeds are
distributable in Australia or available for
the payment of our overseas debts.
Whichever way they are applied, they
benefit our finances.
The position of wheat is not satisfac-
tory. The grain is being pooled and an
advance made by the Commonwealth
Government, but the price is still very
low, and in many cases is quite unpay-
able. The industry is one of the coun-
try’s financial embarrassments at the
present time, though without it we should
feel the loss sharply in our export in-
come —in the past two seasons it has
brought an average of £20,000,000 a year
(Aust.) into this country.
The position up to date is that Aus-
tralia has agreed to sell the export sur-
plus of its excellent produce for a certain
return expressed in money. It is reason-
ably sure of that. What it can’t be sure
of is what it will be able to buy with that
money, internally or externally, any
length of time ahead.
We are already paying more for the
things we import. Attempts are being
made at price-fixing, but, though of some
value, such efforts are clumsy and only
partly effective. The blessed influence ot
the Reddaway award is still evident in
our production costs, and the increased
prices of imported goods, the extra taxes
on industry, etc., cannot be brought into
the basic wage without further inflating
these costs.
We shall soon have to shape up to the
question of how the burden imposed by
this war is going to be met. Are we to
shirk our responsibility and, by inflating
our economy and dissipating our credit,
defer the day of reckoning for a very
few years, at most, when collapse must
bring disorganisation and unemploy-
ment? Or are we to keep calm and
sensible, acknowledge that We have a
bill to meet, and pay as soon as we can?
If we follow the second course we
minimise the subsequent reaction. It
is in times like the present that a little
forbearance by all parties may do a
wealth of good. A trade-union that does
not press for a shilling rise in the basic
wage following a lift in the cost of living
may do its bit towards preventing further
costs rises. A manufacturer who forgoes
a fraction of his profit in order not to
pass on inflating costs is doing the same
service. And so on. No one but boom-
and-bust parasites stand to make any-
thing out of inflation in the long run.
Increased taxes have been imposed
since war broke out, though in 1938-39
a record sum of £124,565,000 was levied,
£l7 19s. 7d. a head, as against
£118,741,000, £l7 6s. a head, in the previ-
ous term. This year all records should
be left behind. Some authorities sug-
gest that imports—and, consequently,
Customs duties —may fall. With re-
duced imports our overseas credit
might improve, with easier internal
conditions following. Taxable capa-
city outside of Customs would very
likely increase in that event. But this
whole argument about falling Customs
revenue will depend on whether we do
import less. Chances are that the U.S.A.
will get a greater proportion of our
orders, on which duties will be higher
than the British preferential rate.
The increased rate and scope of taxa-
tion generally may help to balance rickety
State Budgets, but the position here must
be acknowledged as shocking. There is
little sign yet of penitence for what has
been done, or a commonsense view of
what must be done in the future.
The economic outlook is truly very
mixed. Again the greatest bogey is
costs inflation. For the moment, as said
before, there is evidence of some boister-
ous optimism. But unless costs inflation
is supported by price inflation the boom
will burst before it starts. What we
should be trying our utmost to do is to
avoid costs inflation like the plague. And
we don’t want booms, because they rep-
resent the first stage of a slump.
The Commonwealth Bank, with the
assistance of the trading banks, is to
grant the Loan Council £10,000,000 at 3i
p.c., repayable in sums of £3,333,333 at
the end of the third, fourth and fifth
years. The States are not to be asked to
cut down their “works” expenditure until
1940-41. The Commonwealth Bank
assistance is hoped to smooth the way
for the big defence public loan early in
1940, for the success of which efforts are
being made to stiffen the price of Consols
now. Public bodies are to become more
discreet with the rate of interest
offered also, and the increased wool
cheque may help. Federal defence
expenditure rose from £1,700,000 in
September to £4,300,000 in October, and
from the end of November the schedule
provides for an outlay of £6,000,000 a
month.
* * * *
The worse-than-useless N. S. Wales
Government has put its Stamp Duties
Amendment Bill into effect. The Com-
missioner last week pointed out to the
multitude whose job it is to pay taxes so
as to keep politicians and others in non-
productive “work” that rates of duty on
deceased estates had been increased, duty
on promissory notes had been increased
by 100 p.c., on sales of land by
33 1-3 p.c., and by varying amounts on
insurance policies (including a new duty
on third-party) and renewals. “The Com-
missioner was particularly anxious to
draw attention,” it is reported, “to the
provisions of the Act relating to the regis-
tration of any documents which created
an estate or interest for the life of any
person.” Thus the nucleus of a new
department of the bureaucracy Comes
into being as a result of the imposition
of inequitable and obscure “succession
duties” in N. S. Wales. This devastating
and clumsily conceived introduction to
the State’s Statute Book promises to chase
further capital out of N. S. Wales into
Victoria. Perhaps Premier Mair, mem-
ber for Albury, lives so close to Victoria
that he has forgotten such things as State
boundaries exist. In which case he should
be the ideal man to start a campaign for
the abolition of excrescences such as his
own Government.
* * * *
On Nov. 3 Australian Consolidated
Industries (formerly Aust. Glass) an-
nounced an increase of 8 p.c. in the price
of window glass.
* * * *
What is left of the Government that
pursued the James case to the Privy
Council (and lost) is threatened with hos-
tility over its gold excise. It is claimed
by the general body of producers opposed
to the excise that “the form and method
of collecting the tax conflicts with the
general constitutional provision relating
to taxation.” Miners in the Mandated
Territory claim that the excise “consti-
tutes a contravention of the terms of the
mandate upon which New Guinea is
administered by Australia.” The terms
provide that any taxation collected in the
Territory must be used for its services
exclusively. The largest dredging and
sluicing concerns are in the mandated
areas, not in Papua.


Tenders for Patent.
TENDERS are invited for the Patent Rights
of Patent No. 101859 within the Common-
wealth, held by J. W. W. Campbell (Deceased),
relating to an improved tool for driving fenc-
ing and like posts. Tenders marked “Tender,
J. W. Campbell, Deceased,” close 23rd Decem-
ber, 1939, with MOODIE, COLE & CO.,
Solicitors, Moree, where any further informa-
tion may be obtained.
WA
■m,
m
1
“Thel,ooomile
test proved the
new Texaco
Insulated Oil
best for my
CHEV.
99
says
i
Mr. F. K. Stanford, 4 Garland Avenue, Epping,
who drove his 1938 Chevrolet in the 1,000 mile
SECRET OIL TEST
NEW INSULATED OIL WAS TESTED IN 131 CARS-
Read what the drivers say: —
TEST repo* l
. nnn mile l
i nnft mile Test-
The lUa t the
proved to Tpsuloted
Sew Texaco for
Motor oxl ‘ting was »n-
Chev.—^p. r unninS
finitely bette ther e
was sm ®ntire absence of
was an e ?\ ffg i s firiess. The
SJa&Wsi.
Three months before the public
knew about Texaco’s New Insul-
ated vsfl, Mr. F. K. Stanford gave
it a 1,000 mile test in his 1938
Chev. First the sump was drained
of old style oil, then flushed and
filled with Texaco’s New Insul-
ated Oil.
Then Mr. Stanford made the test
that proved that the New Texaco
Oil gives better performance be-
cause it insulates the engine
against heat.
IS YOUR CAR A NEW MODEL? The
tighter, hotter-running engines of
late models need this new kind
of motor oil that stands up
under greater heat Texaco
Insulated Motor Oil stops the for-
mation of Varnish that clogs up
the engine and may even cause
pistons to seize. You can’t get
top performance unless you use
Insulated Oil.
IS YOUR CAR AN OLDER MODEL? These
tests prove that the new Texaco
Insulated Oil gives new life and
sparkle to old engines and reduces
running costs.
Drain & refill with
gj
1935 FORD V 8
“I have noted consider-
able improvement in
starting, a cooler and
smoother motor and en-
tire freedom from any
sluggishness. My Ford
used less oil too.”
Mr. F. C. Hamilton Smith ,
Edgecliffe Esp., SEAFORTH.
tu
1939 AUSTIN
“My Austin pulled eas-
ily over hills in top
gear where previously
it was necessary to
change down. I was
surprised at the added
life and liveliness.”
Mr. P. Harris, 12 Greenbank
St., HURSTVILLE, H.S.W.
tu
1937 BUICK 8
I’m delighted with
Insulated Oil. My
starting trouble was
corrected with Texaco.
I have no hesitation in
recommending Texaco
Oil to Buick owners.
Mr. L. Lloyd , .14 Owen
St., GOODWOOD , S.A.
m
1938 HILLMAN
“My car showed great
improvement in starting
and general running. I
thoroughly recommend
Texaco Insulated Oil to
all Hillman owners:”
Mr.) J. Leslie, Lang Street,
ANNERLEY, QLD.
gj
1937 DODGE
“Acceleration showed
an improvement the
motor ran very smooth-
ly on the new Texaco
Oil. I am recommending
it to all my friends.”
Mr. W. H. Walmsley, 71
Balmain Road, LEICH-
HARDT, N.S.W.
Wmw
1935 CHEVROLET
“My Chevrolet showed
marked improvement in
starting from cold—oil
consumption was ma-
terially reduced, engine
performance improved
all round on Texaco.”
Mr. L. G. Johnson , 11 Chat-
ham St.,FLEMINGTON , VIC.
m
1938 PLYMOUTH
“Insulated Oil certainly
suits the Plymouth en-
gine. It gave me defin-
itely better performance
during the 1,000 mile
test run.”
Mr. M. L. Unger, 466 George
St., BRISBANE, QLD.
m
1937 VAUXHALL
I was agreeably sur-
prised at the immedi-
ately improved perform-
ance of my Vaux. on
the 1,000 mile test.
Insulated Oil certainly
suits Vaux. engines.
Mr. J. M. Arcus, A her*
deen St., PERTH, W.A .
gj
1939 WILLYS
“My Willys ran cooler
—consumption was very
small. The oil drained
out in excellent con-
dition without any sign
of sludge whatever.”
Mr. F. O. Hui\ter, Woniora
Rd.,BLAKEHURST, N.S.JP.
gj
1936 MORRIS
“The motor was gener-
ally livelier—l noticed
improvement in start-
ing, the engine ran
cooler and used less oil.
I recommend Texaco
for the Morris.”
Mr. A. Attwater, 2 O’Con-
nel St., KOGARAH, N.S.W.
TEXACO
INSULATED
MOTOR OIL
Shares rose boisterously last Wednes-
day. B.H.P. touched 765., later coming
back to 735. 6d. A.C.I. notched 375. 3d.,
British Tobacco 48s. 3d., Felt and Tex-
tiles 365. 3d., Henry Jones 575. 6d.,
Howard Smith 245. 6d., Kandos Cement
30s. 6d., Australasian Paper 345., Electro.
Zinc 575. 3d. and G. J. Coles 71s.
There was reaction from peak prices
before ’Change closed on Wednesday,
and Thursday saw a further slight decline
in the case of market leaders. The Syd-
ney index of industrial share prices,
which had been down to 120.1 a week
before the outbreak of war, touched
130.5 last Wednesday. On Thursday it
stood at 131, though the market gen-
erally was steadier. The impetus
to share prices this time has not
come from New York, though it coin-
cided, more or less, with the lifting of
the U.S. arms embargo, following which
the London Stock Exchange showed
further improvement in tone. The Aus-
tralian share boomlet is said by some
to be partly due to a changeover by
trustee estates from Consols, etc., to
better-class ord. shares. So far .as such
a factor may have been an influence, it
is interesting to note that silver-lead,
zinc and copper stocks were almost
entirely excluded from last week’s
buoyancy; these are not customarily of
interest to trustees. New Broken Hill
Consolidated, a recent Bulletin choice
at 15s. 6d., was the only buoyant Barrier
stock ; it rose to 19s. 6d. on Wednesday,
and is highly interesting as a longish-term
silver-lead investment.
* * * *
London reports say that Australian
credit balances there are already increas-
ing as a result of better export values
and smaller imports. It is also stated
that Australian gold is now going
direct to New York to pay for defence
equipment. In this regard it may be
noted that, though the Bank of Eng-
land is paying £8 Bs. an ounce for gold,
the New York price, at 4.03 dollars to
the pound sterling, is £8 13s. 6d. (35
dollars).
* * * *
The Wheat Pool is muddling along.
The pool’s financial arrangements are a
headache to agents having dealings
with it.
* * * *
Latest development in the affairs of
Bradford Cotton (B. 1/11/’39) is the an-
nouncement of the projected purchase of
the land and factory buildings of Barnet
Glass Rubber at Footscray (Vic.). Dun-
lop Perdriau Rubber is to acquire,
directly or through its Barnet Glass sub-
sidiary, a “substantial interest in both
the old and new capitalisation of Brad-
ford Cotton.” Barnet Glass’s manufac-
turing activities were transferred this
year to the Dunlop plant. Plant “for the
designed purpose” of the Bradford
Cotton enterprise is on order, and
manufacturing is expected to start
soon. It is not stated whether “the
designed purpose” has anything to
do with the manufacture of tyre cord.
Bradford Cotton ords. soared to 495. last
Thursday.
* * * * *
Cam and Sons, Sydney trawlers, aim
to spend £150,000 on a factory at Pyr-
mont to can tuna and other fish and to
produce fish-meal and -oil. Another body
of Sydney businessmen has been con-
sidering for some time the idea of purse-
seining non-edible surface fish and pro-
cessing them at a factory somewhere on
the N. S. Wales coast. Walsh Island was
under consideration at one stage.
* * * *
Castlemaine Perkins shares, after
changing hands at 18s. could not
be bought at the buyer’s price of 19s. 3d.
last week. Rights to the new issue
changed hands at 7s. 2d. on Thursday,
suggesting a price of over 20s. for the
paids. The scrip had been going -too
cheaply for some weeks.
* * * *
On Sept. 30 the British Government
fixed the price of South Seas copra at
£l2 sterling a ton, against £9 7s. 6d. at
the outbreak of war. On Oct. 13 the
price was reduced by 7s. 6d. a ton. Ship-
ping freights and insurance costs are tak-
ing away some of the advantage of the
increase, but growers should be 30s. a ton
more in pocket, in the view of the Morris
Hedstrom management. This co. expects
profits amounting to not less than those
of the preceding year. W. R. Carpenter
should especially benefit from the higher
copra prices, as it will reap profit from
the higher freight rates as well, even if
insurance charges are now heavier.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
TROUBLE BREWING IN INDIA
[Though some signs of the trouble mounting up
in India have been appearing lately in brief cables
it is probably true to say that they have received nothing
like the same attention in Australia as in England,
where, for example, Manchester “Guardian” just
recently dealt with the subject in four leading articles
in one week. Briefly, an attempt is being made to
win sweeping political advantages in return for sup-
porting Great Britain in the war. In an effort of con-
ciliation the Viceroy, Lord Linlithgow, conveyed in a
declaration what Britain was prepared to do in regard
to India’s constitutional future. This has failed to satisfy
the claimants for concessions, as shown in last week’s
report that Congress Ministers had resigned in protest
and with the object of forcing Britain to more suitable
concessions to win their support. The information and
views here given from various sources throw light on a
problem which is as thorny as it is involved.]
(The Marquess of Zetland, Secretary of State for India,
explains to the House of Lords.)
“On the outbreak of war one thing was imme-
diately made plain—that the overwhelming feeling of
the Indian people from one end of the country to
the other was one of violent protest against the out-
rage which had been committed by the Nazi Govern-
ment, and of deep detestation of all that the inter-
national methods associated with the name of Hitler
stand for. That feeling found expression in spon-
taneous offers of support from men and women of
all creeds, all communities and all classes.
“Yet, while this was so, it was also the fact that
the most numerous and most powerful political party
in India, the Indian National Congress, had com-
mitted itself to a specific attitude in the event of a
war breaking out in which Great Britain was involved.
Their attitude was further defined when early in
August certain precautionary measures were taken
by the British Government and the Government
of India to secure the safety of India.
“The particular measure to which exception
was taken by the Congress party was the dispatch
of the external defence troops from India to
Egypt, Aden and Singapore. This action was
taken on the urgent advice of the highest naval
and military authorities. The situation at that
time was such that a threat to the safety of India
both from the west and from the east could not
be excluded, and from the military point of view
it was essential that both the western and the
eastern approaches to India should be adequately
defended.
“Immediately on the outbreak of war the
Viceroy invited Mr. Gandhi to take counsel with
him. The outcome is known, for Mr. Gandhi
stated publicly that, speaking in a purely personal
capacity, for he was not authorised to speak for
Congress, his view was that in the struggle upon
which Britain had entered India should give to
Britain unconditional support. Thereafter the
Working Committee of Congress met at Wardha
and invited to its councils other prominent Con-
gress leaders, including Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru
and Mr. Subhas Bose. Subsequently a statement
was issued, the effect of which was, while con-
demning unequivocally the action of the German
Government, to make it clear that, before they as
a party could give Britain their support in the
conduct of the war, they would wish to be in-
formed of our war aims, and, in particular, how
those aims would apply to India.
“Meanwhile the Working Committee of the next
most numerous and powerful political party in India
—the All-India Moslem League, whose president, Mr.
Jinnah, had also been invited to consultation with the
Viceroy—issued a statement. While the Moslems
equally with the Congress unhesitatingly condemned
the aggression of which the Nazi Government had
been guilty, there is between their view and the view
of the Congress, so far as the internal political situa-
tion in India is concerned, a substantial divergence.
Then there are the Princes, who from the very start
have thrown the whole of their weight into the scale
against aggression. There is also the National Liberal
Federation of India, who declared that they intended
to give unconditional support to Great Britain. Over
and above these main parties, there were the leaders
of other communities and sections, the Hindu Maha-
sabha, the Scheduled Castes, the Sikhs and the Parsees,
to mention only some of them, who instantly made
it clear that they would desire that their views and
interests should not be left out of account in the dis-
cussions that were in progress.
“There, then, you have the background of the
Indian picture; what of the main features of the
picture itself? They are, in the first place, a desire
on the part of all communities to see the overthrow
of the menace which overshadows Europe in particular
and the world in general, and, in the second place,
a desire for self-expression, which, in the domain of
politics, takes the form of a desire for self-government,
broadly speaking, on a democratic basis. But here
I am bound to point out that there are qualifications,
for there is an insistent demand on the part of the
minorities for safeguards against what they consider
might be the consequences of the unfettered domi-
nation of the majority. Herein, of course, is the root
cause of our difficulties.
“Briefly stated, what we have in mind for the
present is a broadly-based consultative body whose
personnel would be drawn by the Viceroy from panels
of individuals nominated by the various political
parties and interests. From this main body the Vice-
roy, who would himself preside over its deliberations,
would summon members to attend particular meetings
in accordance with the subjects to come under dis-
cussion. Such a body would serve as a liaison between
the Government and the people, since it would have
imparted to it the views and the proposals of the
Government, and in its turn it would be in a position
to discuss freely and frankly all matters submitted
to it. As must be obvious, these might well include
in a time of war subjects which it would clearly be
inconvenient to discuss in a more public manner.
“Such a scheme would have this further advan-
tage: that those concerned, representing the various
parties, communities and interests in India, would
not only be in close touch with the Viceroy but in
close touch with one another, and I hope that asso-
ciation and collaboration in so great an enterprise
as the conduct of the war would tend gradually to
lessen the differences and emphasise the extent of
the common interest of all those taking part in it, and,
of course, also of those whom they represent.
“Responsible self-government for India is the
goal which has been set forth by Parliament, with even-
tually the attainment of Dominion status. From that
objective we never have had, nor do we now intend,
to depart.”
India and the War
[From a London “Times” leader, which, incidentally,
makes the important—-and, it would seem, amended—
pronouncement on war aims that “The Allied Govern-
ments are not at war to impose a system of govern-
ment upon enemies or neutrals.”]
In September the Working Committee of the
Indian Congress party passed a resolution calling
upon the British Government to declare its war aims
and give some indication of its future policy in India.
This appeal was backed by a statement that the Con-
gress party was eager to help in a struggle for a new
— St. Louis “Post-Dispatch,” U.S.A.
“As I was saying, it’s a strange war, Hans,”
world order, but could not co-operate in a war con-
ducted on Imperialist lines to consolidate Imperialism.
The Working Committee seems to assume, as
some British publicists and politicians have done and
with no more warrant, that the purposes of the British
Government and Jheir Allies include some sort of
forcible extension of the frontiers of democracy. No
responsible British statesman has committed himself
to that. The Allied Governments are not at war to
impose a system of government upon enemies or
neutrals. They are fighting to save themselves and
other nations of the Old World (and ultimately of
the New) from the constant fear and danger of
aggression.
The leaders of the Congress party, including Mr.
Gandhi, have advanced its claims to be an “all-
inclusive” body representing all the communities and
parties of British India and of the Indian States.
This claim is indignantly opposed by other groups,
which protest that to fight for democracy abroad
and to insist that the Congress party shall
alone represent India is a contradiction in terms.
In these circumstances, it is clear that nothing
whatever could have been gained by accepting the
Congress party’s almost totalitarian claim, or by yield-
ing to its demands that India should here and now
be declared an independent nation. The Government
has wisely taken the views of other elements into
account, and made it plain that it is not intended to
sacrifice the interests of the numerous Indian
minorities and to endanger Indian unity by
deferring solely to the views of one party. This
attitude appears to be fully justified by the fact that
most of the Congress leaders were originally in favor
of giving unconditional support to the Government
during the war and only modified their attitude under
pressure from Mr. Bose and the Left Wing.
(From London “Times”)
“The Viceroy’s long statement simply shows tnat
the old policy to divide and rule is to continue,” said
Gandhi on October 18. “So far as I can see, Con-
gress will be no party to it, nor can the India of
Congress conception be a partner with Britain in hei
war with Hitler. The Indian declaration shows clearly
that there will be no democracy for India if Britain
can prevent it.
“Another round-table conference is promised at
the end of the war. Like its predecessor, it is bound
to fail. Congress, in asking for bread, has got a
stone. What the future has in store for India I dare
not foretell.”
(From the “New Statesman.”)
For many in Britain and the Empire, India is the
test that decides the meaning of this war; so it will
be for the world at large. If Indians revolt and we
coerce them, in the eyes of civilised mankind we are
merely one Empire that fights another. The effect in
America, always keenly interested in India, will be
calamitous. She has never had any sympathy with
British Imperialism; her sympathy for Britain is
directed to different and more noble aspects of our
joint inheritance. This tragic stupidity may be a
worse disaster than the sinking of many battleships.
(From a Manchester “Guardian” leader.)
Since the free consent of India’s political leaders
is essential if the country is to make its full contri-
bution to the cause for which we are engaged in war,
the failure of what was beyond question an honest
effort to conciliate them is a matter for grave con-
cern. Without the co-operation of Congress the
administration in the provinces, which covers most
of the day-to-day business of government, would have
to be carried on under conditions which all had hoped
were a thing of the past.
No doubt the knowledge that in spite of a domes-
tic quarrel every hope and aspiration of India is bound
up with the defeat of aggression in Europe would
bring some restraint to bear on the responsible leaders.
But there are our own hopes and aspirations also to
be considered. India is the touchstone of Britain’s
success or failure in creating from the nucleus of the
Commonwealth . a new standard of international
relationship. Both sides, looking at the perils that lie
ahead, should hold their tempers and see what can
be done.
(Lord Salisbury; “Times” letter.)
If it be asked how the present position has come
about, the answer is that the India Act did not con-
stitute as it should have done a cautious and gradual
advance, but was an example of “abrupt and revolu-
tionary transition” camouflaged as an experiment. It
was, in effect, a concession to the pressure of violence
which Parliament did not venture or did not think it
politic to resist. It belonged therefore to that series
of efforts at the appeasement of resolute opponents
under which conservative principles in Britain have
been abandoned, the settlement in Southern Ireland
has failed to make a friend, and we have witnessed
a main cause of the disastrous chaos in Europe with
which we are now confronted. There was no reason
why reform in India should not have been approached
on the gradual lines which had been promised and
which by giving confidence in the unshaken and un-
shakable purpose of Britain would have prevented
the present political dislocation.
The U.S.A. Keeping Well Out.
C From an article by Don lddon, London “Daily Mail’s”
United States correspondent.)
The hatred of Americans for Hitlerism, though
still venomous, has now taken second place to the
nation’s apparently 100 per cent, intention to stay out
of the war. This much is glaringly obvious to any-
one living in this country; and although it may pos-
sibly make you blink when you recall the tidal wave
of anti-Nazi sentiment, fierce speeches about putting
the dictators in quarantine, and the indignant mass-
meetings denouncing Germany, you have to admit it
is a sensible, if selfish, intention from America’s point
of view. Blinking cannot alter the facts. America sits
comfortably ensconced in her ringside seat and, apart
from a natural and spontaneous urge to cheer on the
democracies and render some assistance to the seconds
in the ring (via the repeal of the arms embargo), she
shows no signs of budging. She is very determined
to stay just where she is—right out of it all.
This is brought home unmistakably to anyone
who is back from Europe, as I am. Cars now have
large paper shields on their windscreens, “Be Neutral.
Keep America Out of War” —tens of thousands of
these are being distributed by the Hearst Press. And
the grocer and the barman, the soda-jerker at the drug-
store, the housewife, the clerk, the typist, the sales-
man and the purchaser say “It’s no concern of ours.”
They say it, as I see it, with a sort of uncomfortable
defiance, remembering perhaps that just a few weeks
ago they were demanding drastic action and asking
why Britain didn’t do something—and so on. They
put in a sentence or two expressing a fervent wish
that Britain and France give Germany a thorough
going-over, but without any immediate offer to assist
in that extremely desirable process.
The editorials in the newspapers, not merely in
New York, but those in Middle West and Pacific Coast
papers, express similar sentiments. The columnists,
that group of highly-paid men and women who mould
America’s opinions, follow the editorial writers’ lead.
Some of them are a little blunt and offensive, though
no doubt they mean well.
General Hugh Johnson, who has a tremendous
following, says, for instance, in a paper in front of
me, “Perhaps we have learned that we can’t settle
these treacherous wrangles among savage European


tr jb es Britons, Franks, Latins, Teutons and Slavs.
They have been going on since the beginning of re-
corded history. The wrapping of the package is always
different —religious differences, differences of political
ideas —but the contents are always the same —racial
hatreds, jealousies, or suspicion and a constant quest
for power. We have no interest in the contents of
that package and we will be the world’s worst suckers
if we are fooled again by the current container in
which it is offered for sale.”
This is fairly representative of what is now being
written by the columnists.
Frankly, it perturbed me at first quite a bit. I
remembered when the second World War was merely
a dreaded possibility there were all sorts of brave
articles and speeches here, with the slogan “Stop Hitler”
marching boldly across them. There were orations
and sermons and warnings and resolutions. To-day,
with the war a reality and Hitler’s hands covered with
the blood of hundreds of Polish women and children,
the clamor against him has been drowned by a louder
and more urgent cry —“Keep America Out.”
Now, although this, if not a somersault, may be
a gymnastic feat, the reasons for it are many, and
they all make good sense —as the United States sees it.
For one thing, many Americans thought Hitler was
bluffing, that he wouldn’t fight, and that a fine show
of resistance and determination on the part of Britain
and France would deter him from further aggression.
Well, as we all know now, Hitler wasn’t bluffing by a
long chalk, and the resultant war has brought the
United States up short with anything but an “I-told-
you-so” expression.
So now America, finding herself three thousand .
miles away from the battle, says, very rationally from
her point of view, that it’s just too bad, but it’s not
our war.
Case for a Conference.
(From an article in the “New Statesman.”)
No two great Powers care to begin bombing.
Germany, Moscow, London and Paris all know that,
once the slaughter begins, the situation will pass
beyond their control —a war to reduce the cities of
Europe to ashes and to prove in every country the
astonishing capacity for endurance among the popu-
lation, but to end no one knows how or when. In
these days power belongs to those who own the aero-
planes. All hesitate to mix the devil’s brew.
Therefore, unless Hitler is much less calculating
and more mad than we believe, there may still be
weeks or months for diplomacy. We may spend the
winter in this curious limbo, a nightmare world of
suspense, with massed troops confronting huge for-
tresses, airmen skirmishing at 20,000 feet, ships sunk,
cargoes confiscated and civilised life at a standstill.
That is the picture in West Europe. In East
Europe vast changes are taking place. A few years
ago we could play a decisive part in East and Central
Europe. That opportunity could only recur after a
victorious war followed by revolutions both in Ger-
many and Russia, and even then our physical capacity
to redraw the map according to our old Liberal con-
ceptions of self-determination is highly dubious. We
hoped to save Poland by our guarantee. We failed.
To-day Stalin, profiting by Hitler’s war in the West, is
advancing the frontiers of Russia, threatening his
smaller neighbors, exacting, as his price for co-operat-
ing economically with Hitler, a free hand to extend
the Bolshevik regime—extending it incidentally inside
the Third Reich itself to the dismay of some elements
in Germany and to the gratification of others. No
one can prophesy the upshot. All we know is that a
gigantic social revolution is taking place, ruthless and,
in the first instance at least, destructive: we know
that it means a change in social forces as momentous
as the change in the map and that, whatever happens
in the West, the day of the small sovereign State in
Eastern Europe has disappeared as surely as the day
of the small private capitalist.
We should do well to ask ourselves what, at
home, in the part of the world still under our con-
trol, we want to maintain and how, since we cannot
maintain anything by standing still, we can adjust our-
selves to new conditions, while holding fast to the
things we value.
We have a mode of life, a tradition of culture
and freedom which flows from the central stream of
civilisation. We declare our determination to maintain
it if necessary by dying for it. But we need more
than the courage to die. We need the brains to cope
with the unprecedented and a capacity to meet a novel
challenge to which courage alone is no adequate
response.
Hitler’s recent speech was a test of this capacity.
M. Daladier and of some of our own political leaders
and publicists were content to reply that they must
end Hitlerism. What, when it is analysed, does that
mean? It may mean nothing except a long war to
substitute Stalin for Hitler. It means, when we under-
stand ourselves, a determination in the minds of
almost every Englishman and Frenchman to live out
of the shadow of the perpetual threat of war. Hence
it is no use asking people, as Mr. Bernard Shaw did,
simply to call the boys back from the front and hope
that Hitler will not begin again. Mr. Shaw was not
fair or realistic about the situation when he said that
our motive was only that of pugnacity. There are
a few pugnacious fools among us ; a few politicians
and journalists either too young or too old to remem-
ber the last war or imagine the next. But they are
only a few. We all know, now we have determined
to resist, that we must somehow win a period of
reasonable security, but that is not all. We should be
equally sure that shouting back abusive words at
Hitler is utterly futile. We have to appraise the situa-
tion and use all our brains to prevent the war turning
into a war of extermination.
Hitler may be in a weaker position than he seems ;
for the first time in his life he might even be com-
pelled to come to a conference in which he would
not get his own way. If it should break down our
position would be stronger. Hitler is not omnipotent
even in Germany. In battle at the head of his vast
war machine he is certainly strong. But does he or his
general staff wish to test this machine against the
Maginot Line and the anti-aircraft guns of Britain, and
does he wish to see the Ruhr and the Rhineland in
ruins, and does he so trust his own population and,
above all, his new and incalculable ally Stalin that he
desires to hazard all on a desperate throw of the dice?
We doubt it, but if we reply in blank negations what
alternative do we leave him?
Surely there should be discussion of the new
frontiers of Poland and the new ethnographical plans
Hitler has in mind. We
should discuss these matters
in a blunter way than he may
expect. He talks of inter-
national economic reconstruc-
tion. Our reply should be
that we not only desire it,
but intend it; that we are
going to set about establish-
ing saner economic relations
with all the neighbors who
will co-operate with us —in-
cluding Germany, if Hitler’s
totalitarianism will permit it.
We have talked about inter-
nationalising our colonial sys-
tem ; we should ask for no-
thing better than to share the
responsibility of administer-
ing our colonies with any
States that will help in de-
veloping them for the com-
mon good.
We can never succeed
against the dynamic of Nazis
and Bolsheviks or maintain
the sympathy of neutral
States by desperately clinging
to the skirts of a vanishing
world in which we once
were comfortable. The re-
sults of suggesting a confer-
ence would be incalculable.
It might even lead to a con-
“Daily Mirror,” London.
“Whadda we do now, boss?”
ference at which neutral Powers, above all, the U.S.A.,
would take part. Sooner or later the attitude of the
United States will be decisive in this struggle. Her in-
fluence may yet be used to avert the worst catastrophe.
Hitler has never yet attended a conference of equals
with neutral Powers present; if he did, the results in
Germany might do more to end Hitlerism than all the
guns in France. If it is too much to hope, we should
at least be no losers. We should rally forces all over
Europe that now succumb to German propaganda ;
we should certainly compel Hitler to answer with
unknown effects in Germany ; we should see growing
on our side a wave of sentiment throughout the
Empire, and in the United States and in other neutral
countries which would surprise us and astonish Hitler.
Our conference should be one open to Hitler and to
all who come. Our terms and our protocols should
be on the table. That would be sincere ; if it failed,
the world would know what we fight for. But it might
not fail: it might succeed.
The Weapon of Hunger.
[Condensed from the first of two articles by W. Arnold-
Forster in the Manchester “Guardian.”]
Hitler said in his speech of October 6 that
it must be possible to define the use of gas, of sub-
marines, and also the nature of contraband in such a
manner that the war will be deprived of its horrible
character of a fight against women, children and non-
combatants in general.
In his reference to submarines Hitler was perhaps for-
getting the agreement of 1936 which he accepted and
which Germany is now violating. In his reference
to contraband he was certainly remembering the
weapon of hunger which both sides used in the last
war and which both are using now.
No memory of the earlier struggle is more bitter
than the memory of the great hunger. It extended
eventually not only to Germany and Austria but from
Northern France to Russia and from Finland to
Armenia ; in Britain it would have been mortal if
the German submarines had been able to go on
destroying ships on the scale which they achieved in
April, 1917. The British people did not realise then
how near they were to famine, and they never have
realised what Europe’s hunger was like.
When the last war began the rules of maritime
war had lately been codified in the Declaration of
London (1909). This code drastically restricted the
law of “contraband,” so much so that if we had
accepted it as a whole we should have been precluded
from making effective use of our chief weapon —com-
merce prevention—against Germany. Our patrols in
the North Sea would have been debarred from stop-
ping any of the raw materials for Germany’s war
industry.
However, only the United States had ratified the
declaration. On August 20, 1914, we declared that our
acceptance was subject to certain changes of the code.
And these changes were drastic. In particular, we
threw over the rule that “conditional contraband,”
such as food, might never be stopped if consigned to
a neutral port.
In October, 1914, we learned that four cargoes of
meat and lard, which we had reason to believe were
for the German authorities, were being sent to Copen-
hagen. We decided to stop these, and in due course
the bulk of them were condemned as prize in the
famous “Kim” judgment. The lard would have
covered the normal imports of Denmark for 13 years.
At this point our treatment of food changed
completely. The American Government had repeatedly
urged us to accept the declaration in its original form.
Sir Edward Grey refused to do this, but he recognised
—rightly, of course —the cardinal importance of main-
taining good relations with the United States. Eventu-
ally he produced a new Order in Council which
restricted our right to stop conditional contraband to
three cases only. The main point was that we claimed
the right to stop conditional contraband if consigned
“to order” at a neutral port —that is, without showing
a specific addressee on the ship’s papers.
This had the effect of an enormous concession to
the Americans, and therewith to the Germans, for it
was interpreted at the time as meaning that all con-
ditional contraband consigned to a named consignee
must be allowed to pass: any consignee would do.
The result was that during the winter months of
1914-15 only one small consignment of food was
stopped. Scores of thousands of tons passed through
the blockade to Dutch and Scandinavian ports,
although we possessed evidence (unsorted at that time)
to show that the bulk of these were destined for the
enemy authorities. We were deliberately treating food,
whether for civilians or soldiers, as if it were immune
from capture.
The Germans, on the other hand, had been
destroying food consigned to civilians in Britain as if
there were no distinction to be drawn. And, in truth,
the distinction had ceased to be real or practicable in
a war between organised modern States: the German
Government and the British had to organise pur-
chases and control imports not only for the armed
forces but for the whole community. As Ludendorff
wrote, “Army and people were one.” In effect, then,
we had to choose between stopping no food or stop-
ping all. Germany helped us to decide.
On February 2, 1915, Germany announced her
intention of destroying indiscriminately all hostile mer-
chant ships in the waters around the United Kingdom
after February 18, claiming justification for this as
a reprisal against the British blockade measures. We
decided, as a reprisal, to stop all goods of “enemy
origin, ownership or destination,” including all food
for Germany. And so the great hunger-blockade and
counter-blockade began.
Poland Hits Some Pockets.
(From an article by the Manchester “Guardian’s”
financial editor .)
It must be taken for granted that holders of
Polish bonds abroad will not see any part of their
money back and that the assets of Allied nations in
Poland are a dead loss. Some idea of the amounts
involved can be gained from a survey of Poland’s
foreign indebtedness just published by the German
Institute of Banking at the request of the Reich
Ministry of Economics.
According to this compilation, the public debt of
Poland to foreign countries at the end of 1937
amounted to about £100,000,000. Private obligations
to foreign creditors amounted to about £90,000,000,
in addition to £60,000,000 of foreign capital invested
in Polish limited companies. Such investments were
chiefly in the oil and electrical industries, which were
almost entirely controlled by foreign interests. Con-
siderable amounts of foreign capital were invested also
in the heavy industries of Upper Silesia.
The bulk of both public and private indebtedness
was owed to French creditors. French capital ac-
counted for more than one-third of the foreign capital
invested in Polish industry, while United States and
German creditors held about one-fifth each, and Bel-
gian and Swiss investors also had substantial shares.
British investments in Polish industry were £30,000,000-


m
xp.
%
P
■
mmmm.
mu m
m
m
mmmm
wm
■am**'
l
4/'
m
mm
831
lUi!
BMPi
WOMEN.
AVERAGE WEIGHT
St. Lb
Ft. In.
4 10 7
4 11 7
1 7 12
6 9 13
7 10 8
11
mmm
fill!!
*< 1
IHIII
wHS’JTMiimI
Bill | *3l ii,if; 1 |
u Keep you fit art
um
FOR ECONOMY’S
SAKE BUY WHOLE
TINS.
A prominent Sydney physician
explains their effective slimming
quality by pointing out that the
slight increase of carbohydrate
content due to sweetening is an
increase of fuel analogous to that
made by adding kindling wood to
a coal fire, it merely accelerates
the burning. . . .Instead of being
stored up as fat, the reduction of
fat is stimulated, thus adding
further effectiveness to the slim-
ming action of the whole wheat
content.
WILLIAM ARNOTT PTY., LIMITED, HOMEBUSH.
CLmottls
FAMOUS
SHREDDED WHEATMEAL
BISCUITS
B 35.
ALWAYS ASK YOUR GROCER FOR ARNOTT’S THEY ARE BETTER THAN EVER


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Not until the concluding day of
V.R.C. spring meeting did Maurice Mc-
Carten register a win in the saddle.
«•••**
McCarten’s solitary victory was on
Tranquil Star (Gay Lothario-Lone Star)
in the Ottawa Stakes, a set-weight event
for maiden two-year-old fillies. At fives
Tranquil Star was in two points less de-
mand than Peter Riddle’s filly Applause.
These rivals had finished second in their
respective divisions of the Mona Nursery
on Caulfield Cup day, each having the
services of McCarten as jockey.
Apparently the form of Tranquil Star
impressed McCarten more than that of
Applause, for he accepted the mount on
the former, Darby Munro weighing-out
for Applause. When the tapes lifted
Applause became involved in a bumping
bout with Madame Coue and Deirdre.
This affected her chance to some extent,
but with over a furlong to go she was
palpably beaten.
Tranquil Star scored one of the easiest
juvenile wins at the carnival, reaching
the judge 3f lengths in advance of
Savaterie, who also claims Gay Lothario
as sire. Ron Cameron, trainer of Tran-
quil Star, piloted The Parisian to victory
in the Melbourne Cup of 1911 for
Charley Wheeler, who was present on
Saturday to give Ron a pat on the back.
Cameron, whose most important suc-
cess to date as a trainer was in the Aus-
tralian Hurdle of 1925 with Mediter-
ranean, has got hold of a very smart
youngster in Tranquil Star. She cost
600gns. as a yearling. The dam is by
Great Star from Saucy Sue, by Magpie
from Sue, an A.J.C. Gimcrack Stakes
winner. Sue’s dam, Formula, was a half-
sister to the dam of Soorak, who de-
feated Whittier in the Caulfield Guineas
of 1922 a week before Whittier’s first
Caulfield Cup triumph.
Encouraged by his having “broken the
ice,” McCarten’s followers went for a
plunge on Mildura in the Final Handi-
cap. Best odds eventually on offer
against George Price’s candidate were
7 to 2, Historian being next in request
at sevens. Against the Epsom hero,
Geebung, 100 to 5 actually was laid.
He started at 14 to 1 and paid £4 11s.
for ss. on the tote.
Figures certainly pointed to Mildura
having a big pull over Geebung. Con-
ceding 131 b., he ran the latter to half a
head in the Camellia Stakes at Rosehill
on September 16. J. H. Davis, the
V.R.C. weight-adjuster, made Geebung
give Mildura 31b. on Saturday. This
amounted to George Price’s represen-
tative meeting Frank McGrath’s banner-
bearer on 101 b. better terms than in the
Epsom, wherein Mildura carried 8.3 and
Geebung 7.10.
McCarten gave Mildura every chance
of redeeming his reputation in the Final
Handicap. He took up a good position
when the field settled do w n, but did not
force matters. Fourth into the straight,
Mildura was in line with three other
leaders inside the two-furlongs post,
but shot his bolt soon afterwards and
finished sixth only.
Harold Badger did not ask Geebung
for a real effort until they faced
for the judge. Geebung wrested con-
trol from Carpentier and, ridden
right out, scored by a neck from
the fast-finishing Anpapejo, with Car-
pentier half a length off. The time,
2min. 3fsec., was only 1-fsec. slower than
Manolive’s Flemington and Australasian
record for If mile, established at the 1938
Melbourne Cup meeting.
Absence of Ajax lent considerable in-
terest to weight-for-age contests at the
carnival, but did not operate to the ad-
vantage of punters. High Caste came to
thefight in the Caulfield Stakes, but failed
badly in the W. S. Cox Plate, which
Mosaic captured so miraculously at 50
to 1. Then came Ortelle’s Star’s 25-to-l
victory in the Mackinnon Stakes, with
Mosaic unplaced at 10 to 9 on.
The C. B. Fisher Plate on Saturday
found punters in a quandary. In a field
of five it seemed a match between High
Caste and Mosaic. They started at 7 to 4
and 5 to 2 respectively; but Ortelle’s
Star received strong support at fives,
while Catalogue and Landlaw were far
from neglected.
Both Bartle (High Caste) and Darby
Munro (Mosaic) were determined that the
race should be soundly run. High Caste
led out of the straight, but was eased
back when Mosaic joined him. Mosaic
had Ortelle’s Star as assistant pacemaker
to the turn, where the mare began to tire.
The race was all over as soon as Bartle
moved on High Caste, who won hand-
somely by more than a length from Land-
law, with Mosaic 2\ lengths farther off.
The If mile was covered in 2min.
30fsec., which has been bettered twice
only in the long history of the race.
Gothic set 2min. 29fsec. in 1928 and
Queen of Song 2min. 30fsec. three years
ago. High Caste has stood up splendidly
to racing, having faced the starter 13
times since towards the end of August.
It is regrettable that he did not have Ajax
as an opponent on Saturday. Frank Mus-
grave’s champion probably would have
been obliged to break another record to
beat him.
Landlaw, the French-bred stallion that
put up such a great race against High
Caste —to whom he also was runner-up
in the Caulfield Stakes —should be a gal-
loping star in the autumn. He races in
the same interests as Prairie Flower
(Seascape Boy-Comedy Wind), winner
of the Batman Stakes, for three-year-olds,
on Saturday.
Prairie Flower, trained by Lou Robert-
son, went out at the remunerative odds
of 16 to 1. She was followed home by
two other outsiders in Harmonic Law, a
Chatham gelding, and James Scobie’s
Madagascar colt Muscari. The 5-to-4
favorite, Dashing Cavalier, never flat-
tered his backers.
Bookmakers did not have much reason
for satisfaction over the downfall of
Dashing Cavalier, as in the succeeding
event Halifax, by Christopher Robin
from Bareena, the dam of Baryta, justi-
fied his 5-to-4 favoritism and Respirator
(twos) cleverly accounted for the unlucky
Maikai in the V.R.C. Handicap. This
made the fourth occasion at the carnival
on which Maikai had been relegated into
second place. Those races included the
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
Moorefield was not exactly crowded
on Saturday, and a tote turnover of £BOO
was exceeded in only one race. Four
races were won by heavily-backed horses,
but Glaucus’s win in the second division
of the Flying Welter gave the books a
better result than they have experienced
for a long time at a suburban meeting.
Harley won the Brush Hurdle Race so
easily that further success for him over
the jumps should not be long in coming.
Exning, though second, did not have the
slightest chance against him, and Belvoir
is a better proposition for future events.
In the lead early, he was green at some
of the hurdles, but, though Harley had
him beaten a long way from home, it
was a satisfactory initial effort. Of the
remainder nothing impressed me more
than the country horse Berrima, a solid-
looking son of Farr.
Dark Elegance won the Juvenile Stakes
as decisively as generally expected.
Although McMenamin eased her up in
the straight her time was only a quarter-
second outside the course record for five
furlongs. If Dark Elegance runs at
Randwick on Saturday next she will have
101 b. penalty, and that should try her
out in a field stronger than she met last
week. The minor place-getters were All
Agog and Many Ways, but, though they
beat the other runners a long way, new-
comers in Gold Earth (Fox-earth-Delhi
Queen) and Cape Amber (Madagascar-
Nom-de-Plume) look as if they may
prove gallopers.
Backers were not in doubt as to what
should be favorite for the first division of
the Three-year-old Handicap. The Kaiser
was never at better than 2 to 1, and,
waiting on Melrose until the straight was
entered, went on to win comfortably
from First Movement, who, though he
has recently shown improvement, has still
a long way to go to justify the 1150
guineas he cost as a yearling. Grand
Billy was a moderate third, succeeded
by Magic Ring, who was too slow in
finding her legs ever to be dangerous,
and is evidently better suited by a mile
than anything shorter. Although Mel-
rose died away at the end she retains her
two-year-old pace, and an addition to
her winning record should not be long
in coming.
Nimble was supposed to be a good
thing for the second division of the
Three-year-old Handicap, but was never
able to head Sir Regal, and the latter,
slipping away at the straight entrance,
eventually beat him a neck in time a
second slower than The Kaiser put up
in his division. Brunswick Joy, though
third, again failed to prove herself as
good as supposed, and of the remainder
Red Sash did best. He is a Wallace
Mortlake colt trained by S. Lamond. Sir
Regal was a 140-guinea yearling, and is
by Pantheon from Chatelet, who on the
maternal side runs back to the same
family as Desert Gold.
Jocular jumped away smartly in the
Carlton Mile and led throughout. He
came home so strongly that at Moore-
field a mile and a quarter win should not
be beyond him. No excuse was possible
for Rex this time, and he is not improv-
ing, nor is Light Dragoon, judged by his
showing in this race. He looked well
enough, but stopped badly in the straight.
Highborn is worth following. He is evi-
dently coming on again, and, when quite
himself, a middle distance suits him better
than a mile.
• # t • O *
Kurrawid won the Moorefield Handi-
cap, thanks to Harvey being stronger at
the finish than the lad who was on Miss
Linbul. The latter was also disadvan-
taged by having to go wide at the turn.
Salazar’s third was just good enough to
keep him up in the weights, and neither
Val William nor Tony did well enough
to justify backing for anything during
the next week or two.
Beau Ercil was a disappointing favo-
rite for the first division of the Flying
Welter. He was never in a position that
gave him a good winning chance, but,
as he finished fourth, may again be worth
backing when he next runs. Goldspur
and Royal Ensign were the early leaders,
and the latter was a winner from the top
of the straight, though he had nothing
in reserve when the judge’s box was
reached. Flaring, who had a clear run on
the rails, looked dangerous inside the
last hundred yards, but, though ridden
right out, was beaten a head for third
by Aladdin, who was prominent through-
out. Bestop scarcely ran as well as the
previous week, and, though Glorious
was a strong order in the betting market
at the last moment, she was not a pos-
sible winner from the home turn. Earlier
in the day she lost her rider at barrier-
rise in the Carlton Mile, owing to another
runner colliding with her.
A 33-to-l winner from R. Skelton’s
stable is something unusual, but Glaucus
landed the second division of the Flying
Welter at that price. There was not
much between Bradley, Braeman and
Glaucus to the turn. Then Braeman
gained a slight advantage, but was settled
half-way down the straight by Glaucus.
The latter hung on long enough to win
from Bel Oiseau, who spoilt his chance
when he ran off the course entering the
straight. Last season Bel Oiseau won
a two-year-old handicap at Randwick
with 8.6, and at his next start in a
suburban welter field the books will not
be as liberal as last week. It did not
say much for the field, however, when
the ancient pony Majorca was not more
than half a neck away from the winner.
Bradley, who had not raced for nearly
six months, will be all the better for his
run. The rider of Bel Oiseau thought
he won, but not much importance
attaches to a jockey’s opinion in a very
close finish.
* * * *
The finish of the Melbourne Cup was
as nearly as possible a repetition of the
Caulfield Cup, the principal difference
being that in the latter Rivette passed
Maikai at the end, while at Flemington
it was Maikai who put in the closing
challenge. Respirator, third at Caulfield,
was narrowly beaten for that position by
Pantler, who was sixth in the Caulfield
Cup. If form always worked out as
correctly, bookmaking would soon be a
decaying business. In a list issued by
Sydney’s principal double-layer on July
1 the combination of “two Rivettes” was
quoted at 5000 to 1. On the same sheet
Rivette and Maikai were at 2500 to 1,
and Rivette and Pantler at 5000 to 1.
Rivette did not have more than her
share of luck in running in the Mel-
bourne Cup, and her win was one of
absolute merit. Respirator, as in the
Caulfield Cup, was almost hopelessly
placed five furlongs from home, and in
finishing a close fourth proved himself
a better two-miler than previously sup-
posed by many followers of racing.
Rivette is easily the best stayer sired
by Ronsard (Son-in-Law-Joie-de-Vivre,
by Gallinule). Her dam, Riv, was bought
by H. and E. Bamber for 200 guineas,
and is by Cyklon (son of Spearmint) from
White River, by The White Knight. As
Riv won several races, and Rivette has
put together over £14,700, it was a won-
derfully lucky purchase.
Mosaic completely disappointed me.
His form was about the same as that
shown by him in the Melbourne Stakes.
He raced without any dash, and, though
the soft going may have been against
him, it is not much use making excuses
for beaten horses. Comparatively, how-
ever, he was not as good as when he won
the Sydney Cup. His run in the C. B.
Fisher Plate further discredited him, but,
as it will entitle him to more favorable
treatment, possibly improved his autumn
handicap prospects.
L’Aiglon and Gilltown gave good
accounts of themselves, being the leaders
at the turn. The former’s weight stopped
him at the finish. As a photograph shows
Beau Vite as the actual leader when the
field straightened up for home, he must
have run an excellent race. His next
engagement of importance is the Great
Northern Derby at Ellerslie (Auckland)
in January. In that he will have a tough
opponent in Beaulivre. Feminist never
gave her supporters a look-in, and pos-
sibly is not up to weight over a distance.
The totalisator turnover on the Mel-
bourne Cup was £35,844, and Rivette
returned only a fraction over 4 to 1
against the bookmakers’ closing price of
5 to 1. On the place machine Rivette
paid slightly better than 6 to 4.
This year the first mile of the Mel-
bourne Cup was run in against
1.44 a year ago. The final mile, how-
ever, was cut out in 1.41 y, against Cata-
logue’s 1.42|. The concluding half-mile
in the latter’s race took 50i, while last
week it was run in 50. When The Trump
won in 1937 the last mile was run in 1.39,
and the last half in 48-J-.
* * * *
Double-layers got an unusual amount
of “dead money” out of the two Cups.
FOR WILLIAMSTOWN.
(By “SENTRY.”)
Hurdle Race: Keewong, 1 ;
Whernside, 2 ; Frisco, 3.
Rawdon Stakes: Earl Marshall,
1 ; Clarify, 2 ; Goldsmith, 3.
Williamstown Cup: Maikai, 1 ;
Cooranga, 2 ; Donor’s Hill, 3.
Steeplechase: Grantley, 1 ; Sea
King, 2; Keewong, 3.
Seddon Handicap: Sir Romeo, 1 ;
The Progeny, 2 ; Considerate, 3.
Ozone Highweight: Creditor, 1 ;
Rex Felt, 2 ; Destiny Bay, 3.
FOR WARWICK FARM
to be held at RANDWICK.
(By “PILOT.”)
Maiden Handicap: Cronus, 1 ;
Sunstreak, 2 ; Sir Ruff, 3.
Juvenile Stakes: Peruke, 1 ;
Sobersides, 2 ; Dark Elegance, 3.
Horsley Handicap: Denis, 1 ;
Sigh, 2 ; Beaucaire, 3.
Warwick November Handicap:
Red Sails, 1 ; Osculum, 2 ; Braid-
wood Boy, 3.
Farm Novice: Tyrannus, 1 ;
Woolooga, 2 ; Prince Ariel, 3.
Leumeah Handicap: Perimond,
1 ; Breeze, 2 ; Binnia Hero, 3.


YOU CAN
BE SURE
OF
SHELL
mi DR AC -FREE
SHELL motor OIL
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED (Incorporated In Great Britain)
OS 39.3
As late as the end of August Millie’s
Hope and Tempest were the Caulfield
Cup topliners, succeeded by Reading and
Tel Asur, while at that time Defaulter
headed the Melbourne Cup list, with
High Caste second in demand. Of the
half-dozen mentioned, Millie’s Hope was
the only runner, and his starting price for
the Caulfield Cup was 40 to 1.
The Bulletin’s Melbourne correspon-
dent, “Sentry,” selected Rivette to win
both Cups. For the minor positions in
the Melbourne Cup he placed Mosaic 2
and Pantier or Respirator 3. As the
last-mentioned two respectively ran third
and fourth, he was well on the mark.
Last year The Bulletin narrowly missed
the double, giving Buzalong (first) for
the Caulfield Cup and Bourbon (second)
for the Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
It is unusual for Melbourne horses to
visit Sydney for the A.J.C. Anniversary
meeting, though on occasions there have
been southern candidates for the Adrian
Knox Stakes. There may be another this
season, as the V.R.C. Oaks winner
Triode is in that race, and while she can
stay there are few* promising milers
among the Sydney fillies. First money
is £750, so the trip is worth considering.
Triode is by Marconigram from Kaftan,
whose dam, Mufti, won the Oaks. Erato,
another of last week’s Oaks runners, is
also in the Adrian Knox Stakes.
Of the Randwick-trained division
engaged in that race Waireka is the best
sprinter, and as last season she won up
to seven furlongs in two-year-old races,
and also ran well at six furlongs in open
company, a mile against fillies of her
own age should not be beyond her.
* * * *
The general idea that this season’s
three-year-olds did not include any up
to Melbourne Cup standard was correct.
Their form in the Cup was not without
surprises. There seemed little likelihood
of either Wilson or Beau Vite finishing
ahead of Reading, and that they did
pointed to both being better suited by
lighter weights than the 8.10 they carried
in the Derby. As Wilson was reported
to be affected by soreness before the
commencement of the V.R.C. spring
meeting a fairly long spell may now be
necessary for him. If so, he may not be
prepared for autumn racing, but should
be worth keeping in mind for one of
the big handicaps next spring.
Despite Reading’s moderate display it
is too early to jump to the conclusion
that he is never likely to be a two-
miler. Conditions may not have been to
his liking in the Cup, and the autumn
may prove him a much better stayer
than suggested by his form of last week.
As he is by Marconigram, and related
to David on the maternal side, distance
should not come amiss to him. Any-
how, as he has won nearly £12,000 for
G. S. Luscombe and F. P. J. Manasu,
he has given a great return for the
400gns. paid for him as a yearling. Even
if the autumn should not see him equal
to winning weight-for-age races, he
appears to have bright prospects in the
V.R.C. and A.J.C. St. Legers, which
jointly carry £2lOO first money.
* * * *
Few mares have started favorite for
the Melbourne Cup, Solution, in 1906,
being the last prior to Rivette. Solution
won the Metropolitan, but, though
backed down to 7 to 2 for the Cup,
missed a place. Previous to Solution
another mare, Melita, was favorite at
4 to 1 in 1873, but got no closer than
twelfth. In starting favorite, and winning,
Rivette put up a record for a mare that
is unlikely to be equalled for many years.
This spring has given unusually good
results for mares, their score including
the two Cups, Metropolitan and L. K. S.
Mackinnon Stakes.
* * * r
H. Badger, the regular rider of Ajax,
who has been on Manrico in his races,
recently expressed the > opinion that,
though Manrico might pace it with Ajax
for a few furlongs, it would be “all
Ajax” over the concluding portion of a
mile. That idea was borne out by Lin-
lithgow Stakes running. High Caste gave
Manrico two lengths’ start commencing
the last quarter-mile, and dead-heated
him. The former would have little hope
of putting up a similar performance
against Ajax.
If all Bulandshar’s progeny prove as
tough as High Caste that stallion will
make a great name for himself in Maori-
land. As a rule such big-bodied three-
years-olds as High Caste do not stand a
lot of hard racing in a short period, but
thirteen races in two and a half months,
at distances ranging from seven furlongs
to a mile and a half, find him better than
when he led off this season with a win
in the Hobartville Stakes. High Caste’s
two defeats by Reading at a mile and
a half do not put him in the light of a
stayer, but he won the C. B. Fisher
Plate at that distance in fast time.
Next season, with Ajax out of the
way, he will have a great opportunity
of adding to his record in w.f.a. races,
though such probable visitors as De-
faulter and Beaulivre will be trouble-
some opponents. Beau Vite may also
come over again, but he does not strike
me as likely to be as well suited as
High Caste by the 9st. four-year-olds
have to carry in weight-for-age races.
* * * *
When Fred Jones left Sydney after the
A.J.C. spring meeting he was hopeful that
Royal Chief would, at least, win a weight-
for-age race at the New Zealand Cup
meeting. The bay had an easy win in the
Canterbury Cup, in which he was beaten
by Cuddle two years ago, and as he ran
the mile and a half in 2.31 he acted up
to his best form. Beaupartir finished
second, but was three lengths away, and,
though a little while ago he was talked
of as a worthy rival for Defaulter, his
latest effort did not put him up with the
latter. In the Epsom Beaupartir was
weighted 31b. above weight-for-age, and
in the Metropolitan 21b., but, taking a
line through his showing against Royal
Chief, he would have had little chance
in the longer race, no matter how he may
have fared in the shorter one. ' It was
thought Beaupartir might have come to
Sydney in the autumn, but his Canterbury
Cup running did not offer encourage-
ment, unless Australian handicappers
modify their opinion of him. He was
also in the Cantala Stakes with 9.2, and
the Melbourne Cup with 8.13.
* * * *
Montessa, winner of the New Zealand
Oaks at Riccarton (Christchurch) last
week, was bred in N.S.W. by A. W.
Thompson and Co. Pty., and sold at the
Rand wick yearling sales for 140gns. She
is by Brazen from Irolene (Linacre-Lady
Egale), who was also the dam of a high-
class sprinter in Ibrani, whose wins in-
cluded an Oakleigh Plate. Early last
season Montessa won a two-year-old ha
dicap at Dunedin, but her
form was of little account. C Jf s^
second in the Oaks, is by Inflation, and
Amita Foe (third) by Defoe.
# * * *
Some time ago I heard an owner ma kf
ing a fuss because a horse had run mucn
better one day than another. Therefore
I was somewhat amused when, a little
later, a horse in which he was interested
ran so much worse than at its previous
efforts that the stewards were invited to
“rub it out.” The horse, however, was
out to win, if possible, and the difference
in its form was one of those things for
which it is difficult to put forward an
explanation. Still, the occurrence should
have impressed it upon the owner con-
cerned that it is inadvisable to condemn
anyone where the running of horses is
concerned.
It recalled an argument I had some
years ago with an owner, who was also
a prominent member of the A.J.C., con-
cerning “reversal of form.” After he
had enumerated the alleged misdeeds of
some owners, I said: “But most of those
things have also happened with your
own horses, and everything was in order,
I suppose.” “Yes,” was the reply. “And
yet you contend that similar occurrences
with horses in other ownership are due to
crookedness.” “Yes,” was again the
answer. After that it was no use con-
tinuing the argument.
if * * *
In the Victoria Derby Beau Vite did
not shine with 8.10, but with 7.4 he
made a much better showing in the Mel-
bourne Cup than the Derby winner,
Reading, who was giving him only 31b.
As a rule, the Derby winner is better
worth backing for the Cup than any
horse beaten by him in the classic, but
there have been exceptions. Alawa won
the 1908 Derby in such easy fashion
that there seemed little likelihood of any-
thing he beat finishing ahead of him in
the Cup. There did not seem much hope
for the Derby third, Lord Nolan, not-
withstanding he was meeting Alawa 101 b.
better, but the drop from 8.10 to 6.10
made such a difference to the former —a
rather light-framed colt—that he won,
while Alawa, a 9-to-4 favorite with 7.6,
finished only fifth. The following year
Alawa was second with 9.2.
* * * *
Melbourne Cup crowd did not reach
100,000 and, at 95,000, fell 2000 short
of last year. The day’s totalisator turn-
over was £119,006 10s., and, as that
would be light by comparison with what
the books held, over £700,000 for the
day’s course betting—books and tote —
would be far from an exaggerated esti-
mate.
*i*
The announcement that the English
Jockey Club contemplates the customary
list of fixtures next year must have made
pleasant reading for people directly asso-
ciated with racing. If the war had held
up racing next season the depreciation in
the value of bloodstock would have been
tremendous, and it might have taken Eng-
land some years to regain its present high
place throughout the world in respect of
breeding. Another pleasing feature is
that the Jockey Club’s step points to
people in high places having no fears
concerning the outcome of the war.
* * * *
Rivette’s owner is showing wisdom in
retiring her from racing. As she is six
years old, further improvement in her is
improbable, and that would be necessary
in order to add to her winning account.
The other day I read a harmlessly amus-
ing explanation of why so many horses
had done little good after winning a Mel-
bourne Cup. The mental strain on the
trainer in winding up the horse for its big
task was, in a measure, credited with
affecting its subsequent career. A Mel-
bourne Cup preparation is exacting for
a horse and trainer, but a sounder ex-
planation is that a win in that race gener-
ally means that in subsequent handicaps
a horse is likely to be weighted beyond
its capacity, and it may also be short of
weight-for-age form. Heavily-weighted
winners of the Melbourne Cup in Poitrel,
Windbag, Spearfelt, Phar Lap and Peter
Pan subsequently won races because they
were genuinely up to weight-for-age
form. They were not affected by the
mental reaction of their trainers.
* * * *
Jockey Bartle had a good innings in
Melbourne, but, unluckily for patrons of
J. T. Jamieson’s stable, was unable to
score in the races that would have meant
the greater substantial benefit to them—
the Derby and Caulfield and Melbourne
Cups. The result of the V.R.C. Handicap
proved that the statements concerning
Respirator’s bad luck in the two Cups
were well founded. On Saturday, when
meeting Maikai only 31b. better than Mel-
bourne Cup terms, Respirator was too
good for him over a soundly-run mile
and three-quarters, drawing away from


tC Every stitch a hand stitch”
-IL. Mms
Ml
m
z>
No. 136,
"TUMBA"
CATTLE
POLEY
£l2/10/-
(Complete)
Every stitch
in the panel
is put in by
hand, a rare
practice, the
flaps are long
and the panel has
leather points down
sides and wide facings
at back.
11 the dees are lined with metal.
• S.W. Rail Freight on Saddles Paid
for Cash with Order.
WALTHER * STEVEMSOM C 7?:
595 CEORCE ST. SYPHEY
y
i
i
Help Britain
by keeping Australia
Busy and Prosperous
The British Prime Minister has in-
dicated that the best way in which
we can assist is by maintaining our
own industrial stability and con-
serving our own resources within
Australia. When you buy Tyres,
you can make a definite contribution
to Australian prosperity, and get the
greatest possible value for yourself,
by specifying Olympic, the all-
Australian Tyre.
OLYMPIC Tyres are made by
Australians in Australia,
and not one penny of wages
or dividends goes overseas
CHOOSE
Olympic*
TYRES
Olympic Tyre Distributors
PTY. LTD.
Corner Crown & Stanley Streets, SYDNEY.
$385
KITCHING’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER GOODS.
LADIES’ KIT BAGS IN ALL COLOURS
Morocco and Calf Leathers.
Fitted with Secure Lock.
lOin. and 12in. Price 37/6
C. E. KITCHING PTY., LTD.,
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wymjard Station ).
Tel.: 8AV7133.
A
The Worlds Best
BATTERIES
FOR. CARS. 8c TRUCKS
C.A.V. Battery Agents.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarf e & Sandovers, Ltd., Hay Street,
PERTH.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Smith & Dove, 125 Pine Street, ADELAIDE.
VICTORIA: E. A. Machin & Co. Pty., Ltd., 535 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
NEW SOUTH WALES: Bennett & Wood, Ltd., Pitt and Bathurst Streets,
SYDNEY.
Service Station: 15 Wentworth Avenue.
the W.A. horse right at the finish.
Respirator may now receive sufficient
weight to keep him quiet in handicaps
for some time, and in the autumn w.f.a.
opposition will be a little too strong for
him.
* * * *
It rarely happens that a maiden wins
a race of the importance of the Queens-
land Cup, but Spear Vale did so in no
uncertain fashion in Brisbane on Satur-
day. He easily defeated Spearace in 3.23
for the two miles, and it seems as if he
is going to prove up to the class of his
brother Spear Chief. In Sydney many
years ago San Fran was a maiden prior
to his success in the Sydney Cup with
6.12, and he was possibly a shade lucky
to beat Australian Colors (second), who
was saddled up again after winning the
Maiden Stakes earlier that day. Austra-
lian Colors lost ground at the start of
the Cup. As Spear Vale is in the V.R.C.
and A.J.C. St. Legers his latest form is
now likely to mean a southern trip for
him in the autumn. The risk is worth
taking, as though Reading and High
Caste have won at a mile and a half
they are still under suspicion as real
stayers.
* * * *
Christopher Robin has sired a good
colt in Halifax, who in winning the Flem-
ington Stakes acted up to his Maribyr-
nong Plate form. He is now cheap at his
yearling price of 400 guineas. Halifax
should be a staying possibility, as his sire,
a son of Phalaris, did well up to a mile
and a quarter in England, and is out of
Dutch Mary (William the Third-Pretty
Polly). Halifax’s dam, Bareena, is by
Woorak from Queen Battery, a sister to
the Melbourne Cup winner Artilleryman.
Halifax’s pedigree consequently takes in
lines embracing speed and staying ability.
* * * *
Broadcaster and Trueness have each
incurred 71b. penalty for the December
Stakes, but that may not prevent either
running. It means 8.12 for Broadcaster
and 8.7 for Trueness, weights that should
not seriously trouble either. Perhaps
there is a possibility of a let-up for True-
ness, but the odds are in favor of Broad-
caster being a runner. When Pandava
won in 1937 he had 71b. extra, and last
year’s winner, Esperanto, was penalised
51b. At such a short distance as five fur-
longs a few additional pounds is rarely
a serious matter. One of the unpenalised
runners, however, will be the speedy
Dark Elegance.
* * * *
Geebung was out of his distance in the
Melbourne Cup, but an additional 131 b.
did not stand in the way of his success
with the distance six furlongs shorter in
the Final Handicap at Flemington. Owner
D. U. Seaton does not race many horses,
but Geebung’s success may cause him to
put more of his own breeding into work.
He is optimistic concerning Theo’s pro-
geny. Geebung, with £3025 for three
wins, is well ahead of expenses for the
current season.
* * * *
A reminder to owners and trainers
that entries for the A.J.C. Villiers Stakes,
of £l3OO, and Summer Cup, of £l5OO,
close on Monday next is not out of place.
The Villiers Stakes winner is liable to
be rehandicapped up to 101 b. for the
Summer Cup. That is the only penalty
attached to the race. Last year Faken-
ham won the Villiers Stakes with 8.3,
and Red Sails the Summer Cup with
6.11. Probabilities favor the two again
being runners for those races.
V * *
In number of winning representatives
Marconigram did better than any other
sire at the Melbourne Cup meeting. Wins
in the Derby, Oaks and Maribyrnong
Plate at the same meeting are unusual,
but Reading, Triode and Broadcaster
respectively credited those races to the
son of Abbot’s Trace, who has been a
versatile sire—of, among others, suc-
cessful two-year-olds, three-year-olds
and Sydney Cup (Contact) and Mel-
bourne Cup (Marabou) winners. In
stakes he was beaten by Ronsard, whose
daughter Rivette, with £7OOO and a £2OO
trophy from the Melbourne Cup, placed
him well in front.
Snow White and Tranquil Star each
gave Gay Lothario a win, and High Caste
credited Bulandshar with a win and a
half, as did Manrico for Manfred. Other
sires with a winner each were Harinero
(Trueness), Spearfelt (Rex Felt), Great
Star (Orteile’s Star), Lord Quex (Cata-
logue), Heroic (Parodier), Grand Knight
(Whernside), David (Cheery Jack), Gilt
Edge (Securities), Caledon (Fearless),
Beau Fils (The Progeny), Paving Away
(Grantley), Christopher Robin (Halifax),
Windbag (Respirator), Sailing Home
(Collier), Bold and Bad (Geebung) and
Seascape Boy (Prairie Flower).
* * * *
All trainers and jockeys strike bad
luck at times, and, though G. Price’s
prospects appeared so bright before the
commencement of the A.J.C. meeting,
Fortune did not favor him at Randwick
or in Melbourne. Mildura was a failure
down south, and cannot be nearly as
good as most of us supposed. The mile
and a quarter was beyond him in the
Final Handicap at Flemington on Satur-
day, but he worked so well prior to that
race that he should return to Sydney in
good trim, and may pick up a handicap
at the summer meetings at Randwick.
* * * *
Graceful Mover (Corban-E’en Step)
greatly impressed some Sydneyites who
saw him in Brisbane, but his win in the
Flying Handicap at the Q.T.C. meeting
on Saturday did not suggest he was out
of the ordinary. He won by only
a short head from Thurles Lad, who was
conceding him 181 b. On his visits to
Sydney Thurles Lad showed himself
smart, but not sufficiently so to be equal
to conceding 181 b. to any sprinter with
pretensions to class. A surprise at the
Brisbane meeting was the defeat of the
7-to-4-on favorite, Chatting, in the C. E.
McDougall Stakes. She was easily
downed by Valparella, who is by Heb-
rus, a half-brother to Heroic.
* * * *
Birthday Boy, winner of the King
George Handicap at the Avondale (M.L.)
meeting last Saturday, is a brother to
Limarch, being by Limond from Queen
March. Birthday Boy raced in Sydney
at two and three years, and his last
placing here was second to Bristol in
the 1937 Canterbury Guineas. He won
twice at Randwick at two years, carry-
ing 9.0 in one race. Now that he has
again developed form perhaps another
Australian trip for him is a possibility.
* * * *
H. E. Tancred has no cause to regret
giving £7OOO for High Caste last autumn.
In his ownership High Caste’s wins and
places have been as under:
Two Years.
First, V.R.C. Sires’ Produce .. .. £2,555
First, Ascotvale Stakes .. .. .. 1,050
Second, A.J.C. Sires’ Produce .. .. 600
First, A.J.C. Champagne .. .. 1,900
Three Years.
First, Hobartville Stakes 600
First, Rosehill Guineas 630
Third, Clarendon Stakes 30
Second, A.J.C. Derby 800
First, Craven Plate 1,125
First, Clibborn Stakes 520
First, Caulfield Guineas .. .. .. 2,100
First, Caulfield Stakes 700
Second, Victoria Derby .. .. .. 1,000
Dead-heat, Linlithgow Stakes .. .. 450
First, C. B. Fisher Plate 700
Total £14,760
And there is more to come. At various
times high prices have been paid for
Maoriland horses that had proved them-
selves gallopers in their own country.
One Sydney man found such purchases
costly, and, though some horses did fairly.
High Caste stands out as a profitable
investment.
* * * *
The V.R.C. meeting did not definitely
decide the question of two-year-old
superiority. Broadcaster won the Mari-
byrnong, but, as compared with Halifax,
the luck of the draw favored him, and if
they were to meet again it is probable
the latter would be given preference by
Melbournites. In winning the Flemington
Stakes Halifax put up a good perform-
ance, as after being the leader from the
start he stalled off Clarify, to whom he
was conceding 131 b.
The run definitely placed Halifax ahead
of the Hall Mark colt Goldsmith, to
whom he gave 31b. Securities, who car-
ried 31b. more than Halifax, was well
beaten, as was Florin. Earl Marshall (by
Lord Paramount) is another good colt,
even if not quite up to the standard of
Broadcaster and Halifax. He was getting
only 51b. from Securities when he ran
the latter to a head in the Byron Moore
Stakes.
Trueness was the best filly at the meet-
ing, but, admitting she had 71b. penalty,
she was too far behind Securities and
Earl Marshall in the Byron Moore
Stakes to be regarded as equal to the
best of the colts. In a handicap Broad-
caster and Halifax would now be on top,
with very little between them. It is to
be hoped they train on better than
Aurania and Aspire, who were the best
colts in Melbourne last spring, but were
failures in the autumn. In addition to
those mentioned N.S.W. has a good colt
in Flying Knight.
* * * #
There are evidently some very smart
two-year-olds in Maoriland. In winning
the Pioneer Handicap at the New Zea-
land Cup meeting at Riccarton (Christ-
church) on Saturday Enrich cut out five
furlongs in 58, and defeated Atreus only
a head. Enrich now shares the record
with Machine Gun and Amigo. The
Australian record is 58j, put up by Pan-
dava at Randwick in December, 1937.
* * *
Bookmakers are now the only medium
of betting on racecourses in the State
of New York, but the legalisation of
the totalisator next year has been ratified
by referendum. The following from the
New York “Times” of Oct. 8 points to
an Australian machine being favored at
New York’s principal course:
John J. Coakley, secretary and trea-
surer of the Westchester Racing Associa-
tion, showed the big plant at Belmont to
L. L. Raymond, general manager of the
Australian Totalisator Company. Nine
years ago Raymond superintended the in-
stallation of the tote at Hialeah Park,
Miami. He was making a survey of con-
ditions at Belmont.
* * * *
An American record for a mile and a
half was made at Belmont Park (New
York) at the end of September, but Pal-
fresco’s Australian time of 2.27| for that
distance was not equalled. In winning the
Manhattan Handicap with 8.0, Sorteado
recorded 2.28 2-5, the other places going
to two of America’s best stayers, Cravat
(8.8) and Isolater (8.6). Sorteado was
bred in the Argentine, and his sire,
Tresiete, is by Alan Breck, a half-brother
to Ronsard, sire of the Caulfield and Mel-
bourne Cups winner Rivette. Tresiete is
out of Trentona, who is by Torpoint, a
Trenton horse. A fortnight after being
beaten by Sorteado, Cravat and Isolate;
met at level weights—B.l2—in the Jockey
Club Gold Cup, two miles, at Belmont
Park. There were only three runners,


and Cravat beat Isolater a length and a
half in 3.23, the record for the race being
the 3.22 3-5 put up by Mad Hatter in
1921. Cravat’s win carried £AI3BO and
a gold cup, while second received £250
and third £125.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
o Open and Amateur Champion of Australia .)
There is nothing more spectacular in
golf than the ball that is pitched high into
the air and lands close to the flag, biting
into the green with little run. This stroke,
more commonly known as the pitch-shot,
is not popular among the general run of
golfers because it is difficult to master.
Used when a bunker or any obstruc-
tion bars the way to the green, it varies
from 15yds. from the flag to 50yds.
Owing to its being harder to learn, there
is always the “mental hazard” factor.
Anxiety about the stroke is reflected in
the player, who is often apt to worry
more about the result of the shot than
about the making of the actual hit.
The pitch-shot is invaluable to the
good golfer. It is a stroke to be used
when bunkers, rough and other pitfalls
have to be faced. Once mastered, it is
a wonderful asset to a player, and a
necessity in consistently low scoring.
The fault most common in mak-
ing pitch-shots is the failure to remember
that the loft of the club is sufficient to
get the ball over the bunkers and mounds.
I recall, many years ago, being unable
to play this shot, as I couldn’t rid myself
of the idea that I had to help the ball
over the obstacles by using my wrists and
arms. Such a method may get the ball
on to the green, but it is far too risky,
and usually ends in disaster. Concen-
tration upon hitting the ball is the most
vital essential in pitch-shots, and any
thought as to “helping” it into the
air should be forgotten. In my stance
the ball is taken midway between the
feet, while the left foot is open and fac-
ing slightly toward the line of flight. This
stance should be thoroughly relaxed, with
both knees comfortably bent, giving an
“armchair” feeling to the stroke. In
this shot, perhaps more than in any other,
one should remember the golden rule —
“watch the ball.” It is imperative that
the head be kept still.
There are comparatively few golfers in
the world capable of playing this shot
well. Of the few I have seen, Joe Kirk-
wood was outstanding. This former
Manly caddie was an expert in stopping
the ball quickly from a short distance.
He was a first-class example, and I learnt
much by watching him in 1930, when he
and Walter Hagen toured this country.
On the other hand, Gene Sarazen was
unable to stop the ball smartly, and,
although he tried to learn this shot, he
never really was comfortable when play-
ing it.
The backswing in the pitch-shot is an
important feature. Freedom is needed,
and no restriction should be placed on
the backswing. Care must be taken,
however, that the ball be firmly struck.
There should be no suggestion of floppi-
ness about the stroke. When the club-
head strikes with the ball the wrists
should be speeded up to give an extra
bit of crispness. I advocate, in making
this shot, slightly cutting across the ball.
By swinging the clubhead outside the line
going back, using the right hand more
than the left, and cutting across the line
to the hole coming down, the ball is sent
away with backspin on it. The amount
of backspin thus imparted is governed
by the manner in which the clubhead
cuts across the ball and the crisp way in
which the shot is played.
At Carnoustie, in Scotland, I saw Jack
McLean, who has since turned profes-
sional, bring a ball back nearly eight feet
to the hole after it had landed well past
the flag. While much depends upon the
lie of the ball, for such a testing shot re-
quires a reasonable lie, the correct club
to play the shot with is a heavy exploder
or niblick. This weighty club has a much
better chance to cut through the grass
under the ball, and will get the ball up
easier from a tight lie. I also find a
heavy club assists in giving greater
rhythm, as it eliminates any tendency to
jerkiness in the swing.
The properly-played pitch-shot is not
easily learnt. The handicap golfer finds
great difficulty in trying to stop the ball
quickly. It is advisable to study and
practise the shot correctly before any
attempt is made to bring it off during u
round. Be content to get the ball on'
the green for a start, and then, when
confidence has been gained, try to get
the ball nearer the hole. It is simple
enough to describe how to play this dif-
ficult shot, but it calls for such accurate
play that I still have to practise it regu-
larly during the year to maintain my
touch. I would advise the average player
always to play for the green in similar
circumstances till he is sure of being able
to stop the ball near the hole. But by
mastering this stroke it simplifies the
easier shots and gives any golfer a feel-
ing of knowledge which will assist his
game greatly.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee.”)
Cricketers have unobtrusively attuned
themselves for the Sheffield Shield
matches to start on Friday in Adelaide
and Brisbane. In Sydney they have put
spirit into efforts to work up to their
best. They are keen and diligent at
practice. The S.C.G. nets on Tuesday
and Thursday afternoons after four
o’clock have been so busy, so bright
and merry, that any hard-boiled pessimist
looking on would get an uplift.
In addition some players do training
runs to strengthen condition, and also
practise catching and fielding in the
open. The regulars include McCabe,
Fingleton, Barnes, Chipperfield, Solomon,
Cheetham, Easton, Saggers, Chegwyn,
R. James, Carmody and D. James.
“’Owzat?”
The N. S. Wales party which left for
Brisbane yesterday should be in sound
match form, notably in batting and
fielding. The bowling also may be more
reliable than it was last season. It will
get a fitting testing by the Bill Brown
army on the beautiful wicket at Wool-
loongabba.
Carmody, who takes the vacated
place of Crossan, is worth a position
in the actual eleven. A club-mate of
McCabe, he bats right hand, has a
pleasing stance and shows freedom and
power.
Queensland is relying on the men who
performed so efficiently against Victoria
and South Australia in the last Brisbane
engagements. Through match experience
they had then they will start a more
dangerous lot than they were at the
same period a year back. They are
Brown, Cook, Allen, Rogers, D. Tallon,
W. Tallon, Baker, Stibe, Dixon, Ellis
and Christ, with Guttormsen twelfth.
Stibe played for the Queensland colts
in Sydney last season, and got into the
Shield team in the last two matches, to
score 58 and 23 against South Aus-
tralia. If rugged and unorthodox, he
is confident and aggressive, and carries
a business air with him to the wickets.
An unusual type, he might upset bowlers
who subdue rule-of-thumb batsmen.
Chipperfield will be available for later
Shield matches. First of these take
place ip Adelaide (N.S.W.) and Mel-
bourne (Queensland) a month hence.
The Victorian and New South Wales
elevens by that time may reveal
tightening-up changes, those of Victoria
material ones if some of the present un-
availables be free to play. These include
Rigg, Gregory, Ledward, Sides, Beames,
McCormick and Thorn.
Victoria, at the moment, is under a
serious handicap against such a well-
balanced winning team as the South Aus-
tralians, all (save the new man, Klose,
in place of P. Ridings) having been salted
by success last summer.
South Australia turned out an im-
pressive batting side to win the Shield
in 1938-39. Bradman, of course, gave
it a tremendous lift, as he must give
any team with which he plays. But
others swung into line to such purpose
that they were not dismissed for fewer
than 462 runs in any innings. Their
totals were 600 for 7 wickets, 557, 488,
462, 349 for 4 and 207 for 7. In con-
sistency these are exceptional for South
Australia.
Bradman is moving along to the thou-
sand runs for South Australia against
Victoria. With his insatiable appetite for
centuries, he may reach the objective this
week. In eight matches he has made 878
runs. The centuries in this little com-
pilation, added to those piled up as a
New South Welshman, give him 11
hundreds against Victoria! Neverthe-
less, Victorian bowlers have not had a
barren period against the “robot of the
bat.” In his last eight efforts he ran
to three figures only once against them.
Run-getting by Bradman against
Queensland throws into the deep back-
ground his exploits against other States.
Here he has been a veritable Walter Lin-
drum of the willow. One fine day at
Brisbane he was outed for a duck, caught
at short-stop by Waterson off an extra-
fast ball from aboriginal Eddie Gilbert.
Many imaginative stories have since been
told of the stumps flying all over the
ground at Woolloongabba when Bradman
netted that duck. The truth is that Don’s
wicket was not hit at all; the stumps
were erect when the exultant “ ’Owzat?”
heralded his exit.
How Bradman got even with the
Queenslanders for that entertaining little
episode is shown in the consecutive out-
ings he has had since against them —200,
253, 233, 31, 123, 246, 39 not out, 107,
113, 225 and 186. More like the breaks
of a billiards champion in top form or
the dream of a scoring-book genius such
as Bill Ferguson. As a South Australian
Bradman becomes more and more the
flagellant of Queensland bowlers. In
seven matches, seven centuries in nine
innings are his response.
The other side of this quaint chapter
has its glimmer of light for the Queens-
land bowlers. They are the only Shef-
field Shield people who brought Don
down for two ducks. Time for a third.
• • • • • •
Tamlyn, a new batsman in the Vic-
torian eleven for Adelaide, made an even
100 against Westralia in Perth last
season. lan Johnson, also chosen, is a
son of Test-selector W. Johnson, and
ranks as a colt of considerable promise
all round.
It is ten years since C. W. Walker first
appeared as wicket-keeper for South Aus-
tralia. In the matter of injuries he has
been most unlucky, the fingers on his
left hand having been severely hurt,
especially when gathering in erratic leg-
side bowling. In 51 matches for the
Sheffield Shield, he has taken 151 wickets
as ’keeper, 82 caught and 69 stumped
He has figured in 17 matches against
each State. The big relative proportion
of stumpings is due to the , se^ / uct l v^ l f r °
bowling of Grimmett and Ward lurin 0
batsmen out.
The average follower of cricket regards
Don Tallon as a colt in the Test sense.
And, of course, he is, notwithstanding
that he has already had 53 innings in the
Sheffield Shield, scored 1665 runs and
taken 85 wickets as ’keeper. Tallon has
made his runs at an average of 33,
Barnett at 27 and Walker at 14. Of
the three Tallon has greatest possibilities
for batting improvement.
The oldest representative cricketer in
Australia, John A. Tooher, celebrates
his ninety-third birthday on Saturday.
He played against Victoria on the Mel-
bourne ground in 1875, when W. L. Mur-
doch, making his first appearance, kept
wickets, and N. S. Wales won by an
innings and one run. Not one of the
other 21 players has survived. One of
the umpires was Edmund Barton, who
became first Prime Minister of Australia.
Tooher saw some Sheffield Shield
cricket in Sydney last season. He
thinks Trumper the most beautiful bats-
man he ever saw, Bradman the greatest,
Murdoch one of the best three or four
and Charlie Bannerman unsurpassed
among the hard-hitting off-drivers. The
veteran lives in a suburb overlook-
ing Sydney Harbor, enjoys good health
and watches his cricket without the
aid of glasses. After retiring from
active cricket he became a noted ama-
teur umpire. He officiated in two of the
three Tests between Lord Sheffield’s team
and Australia in 1891-92.
* * * *
With inter-State men standing out Syd-
ney premiership last Saturday was shorn
of a little sheen. Batting had some high-
lights. M. Cohen (160) and C. De Saxe
(104) found Gordon bowling and the
Chatswood oval to their taste, putting on
213 for the second wicket of Paddington
in a trifle over two hours. Cohen
reached the century in about an hour and
a half. Secretary to his club and dele-
gate to the Cricket Association, he is also
the most consistent bowler. An un-
assuming laborer in the vineyard of
cricket. De Saxe is from second grade.
Promise shown at Sydney Grammar
School is being fulfilled. A right-hander
of taking style he scored 24 and 59 not
out in the first match ; then the century
last week.
Petersham was in danger of collapse
against Cumberland when captain D.
Seddon followed up his 88 against Rand-
wick with a timely 120 not out, after five
wickets had fallen for 75. Seddon is one
of the few who have won representative
honors in cricket and Rugby football for
New South Wales.
H. Stapleton supplemented his match-
winning bowling against Mosman by hit-
ting up 117 against Balmain; 82 from
boundaries —three sixes and 16 fours.
Stapleton bats and bowls left hand.
J. Human, the busy Middlesex bats-
man, rescued Waverley from an awk-
ward position against University. His
85 was characterised by punishing off-
driving. A lively cricketer, Human bats
and fields as though it gives him endless
pleasure. He has notched 50, 31, 13 and
88 for Waverley.
Two Randwick bowlers gave the bat-
ting a big lift against Western Suburbs.
K. Lee (70 not out) and C. McLaughlin
72 put on over 100 runs very fast for
the ninth wicket: total, 9 for 320.


tu
Twice. Daih/ -Z'-tS-Q
AT THE.
ILi
;#2R
SAIiICI’S PARISIAN PUPPETS.
Amazing—Unbelievable.
NEW OVERSEA VARIETY STARS.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS MILES BROS.,
4 Boys and a Guitar.
GEO. WALLACE & NEW VARIETY
STARS,
SUNDRY
SHOWS
STAGE AND CONCERT
“Elizabeth the Queen”
Sydney Minerva has a winner this time,
easily the best play that’s yet been seen
at that distinguished address. Maxwell
Anderson, who wrote “Winterset,” is one
of the most interesting of contemporary
playwrights, and this study of the
relations between Elizabeth and Essex
is a drama both credible and powerful.
The settings and costumes are splendid
in themselves, but the play is anything
but a piece of period furniture. it is a
subtle analysis of the power complex.
Elizabeth is in love with Essex with the
desperate and suspicious passion of an
ageing woman; and she is in love with
her throne, and knows Essex covets it.
Essex is portrayed as sincerely in love
with Elizabeth; but he is proud and hot-
headed, and to his natural objection to
being dominated by a woman, even if she
is the queen, there is added a restless
ambition that crystallises into a determi-
nation to become ruler of England.
Each of them is torn by inner conflict,
and when they meet they clash. There
is no possible solution except Essex s
death, and that is a disaster for Elizabeth,
who sees herself as “queen of emptiness
once he is executed.
Around this core of tragedy the body
of the play is rich and colorful: the
queen in council with Raleigh, Burghley,
Cecil and Bacon; the minor drama of
Penelope Gray (finely portrayed by Jane
Conellv), who is in love with Essex, and
who is* loved by Elizabeth’s Fool (Clif-
ford Cowley); intrigues at the Court
and Essex’s armed rebellion; a scene in-
troduced from Shakspeare’s “Henry IV.,”
with Reg Newson as Falstaff and Nor-
man Lee as Prince Henry. The only
serious flaw in it was the opening scene,
in which Elizabeth’s guards were joking
about something or other, and all ope
could hear was a sort of bearded burb-
ling. Lloyd Lamble’s Raleigh was too
stiff at the beginning, but improved at
the council table.
Doris Packer, too, seemed uncertain at
the start. Afterwards she made the
queen an intensely living character, play-
ing the big scene prior to Essex s execu-
tion with rare emotional force. Both
she and Ian Keith were remarkable for
the depth of understanding they brought
to their parts. It was Keith’s night; the
strength and subtlety with which he por-
trayed the stormy personality of Essex
showed that he has a talent which could
make a success of Hamlet.
* * * *
Remembrance Concert
“House Full” signs were up outside
Sydney Town Hall by 7.30 last Saturday
night, and many were turned away from
the festival of remembrance and patriotic
concert staged by the United Returned
Soldiers’ Fund. Lord and Lady Wake-
hurst, the Lud Mayor’s lady, Federal and
State Ministers and many prominent cits,
turned out for it.
Most impressive was the fall of pop-
pies—“a petal for every dead Australian
soldier.” As the bugles died the lights
dimmed, and, with the silvery soprano
of young Robert Stevens piercing the
silence, the petals showered down. Then,
as still the leaves of memory fl utt ®[ e “>
Binyon’s “They Shall Not Grow Old
was recited by J. Brunton Gibbs. A
response by the audience, a of
light and the bugles sounded reveille.
Proceedings opened with the bugles
welcoming the vice-regalities, then the
pipe band of the N.S.W. Scottish—well,
every Austral-Scot can imagine the
effect!
Pleasant memories, 20 years old, were
revived by many of the items. There was
nothing highbrow about the proceedings
—Mr. Gibbs even recited “Gunga Din.
Peter Dawson, though suffering from a
cold, Peggy Dunbar, pleasantest of
sopranos, Raymond Beatty, most sonor-
ous of bass-baritones, and Noho Toki,
Maori tenor, did the warbling. Brown
and Harrow gave a spot of humor. A
choir of boys’ voices was conducted by
H. F. Treherne. The great organ was
heard, and Lionel Lawson fiddled. A
chummy affair, thoroughly Australian in
atmosphere, and deserving of the sup-
port it received.
* * * *
“China’s Night” was the only event of
theatrical importance in Melbourne last
week. It was staged at Olympia, and, as
with “Hiawatha,” the stage was too vast
and the actors too remote to make the
spectacle convincing.
A dragon 140 ft. long and lighted inside
deployed around the arena, but the beast
that causes earthquakes, epidemics,
droughts, floods and other evils in the
Flowery Kingdom failed to strike a
ha’p’orth of terror into the breasts of
the assembled Australian infants, who
were more entranced by that ancient
Celestial institution the fireworks, which
were magnificent, incredibly ingenious,
and all made by White Australians in
Sydney.
A wedding all according to “010
custom” was celebrated in the centre of
the ground, but gave the audience a feel-
ing of remoteness until it learnt per the
announcer that a real Chinese couple
were actually being indissolubly linked in
the bonds of holy matrimony.
“He's gettin' more like his father every day.”
Gregan McMahon’s production of
Shaw’s “In Good King Charles’s Golden
Days” at Melbourne Comedy next month
will be the first in any country outside
England. This right or privilege used to
go to Warsaw, Poland.
* * * *
Adelaide Repertory moved into its big
new home, the Tivoli, for its final effort
of the year, three performances of the
already-familiar “I Killed the Count.”
The death-struggles all over the furniture
were so realistic that a new count had
to be procured after the first night, the
original one having gone out with broken
ribs. The acting was good all round, but
the humorists McCarron and Florence
Brown got the biggest applause.
* * * *
Chamber music, save when some im-
ported “celebrity” makes it momentarily
fashionable, is neglected and unappreci-
ated by Sydney’s concert-goers. Sydney
Con.’s subscription concerts of this genre
are listened to by but sparse audiences,
though the performers are first-rankers
and the musical fare exhibits the greatest
of composers at the zenith of their in-
spirational powers. One night last week
eight Con. instrumentalists presented, in
various instrumental groupings, the
Mozart G Minor String Quartet, the
Cesar Franck F Minor Pianoforte
Quintet (Frank Hutchens, soloist) and the
Sonata in D for Violin and Pianoforte
of Jongen, all very sound performances.
But the attendance was small and the
dailies ignored the concert.
AT THE TALKIES.
“The Women”
The dialogue’s a bit less obstetrical
than it was in the play at Sydney Royal,
but it’s still a frank enough satire on
the way women are alleged to talk when
they’re alone to have had the bloke in
the seat in front at the St. James guffaw-
ing like a dyspeptic bullock. In the
sentimental middle of the film the guffaws
gave way to the enthusiastic sobbing of
the woman two seats behind —so that,
take it either way, it’s a howling success.
The talkie differs very little from the
play: there’s the central theme of Mary
Haines losing her husband to a wild-
woman, getting her divorce at Reno, and
then recapturing a husband who realises
that he’s made a fool of himself; and
there’s the general impression of 2,000,000
women (a count of the cast shows 21,
without a solitary male) all talking hus-
bands, babies and scandal as hard as
they can go.
The comedy and the cynical, polished
dialogue when the women meet at tea-
parties, at the manicurist’s and at the
gymnasium go at such a pace that the
audience can’t help being about ten
laughs behind. Rosalind Russell as the
leader of the gossips and Mary Boland
as the Countess de Lave, with her four
divorces and her inextinguishable faith in
“Vamourl' are in fine form; every one
of the lesser ladies, right down to a
female hillbilly on a ranch at Reno —
when she sings cowboy ballads it sounds
like an ambulance tearing down George-
street—adds her quota of comedy.
Joan Crawford, looking about as
glamorous as a horse, gets away with
the wild-woman part by emphasising her
toughness; Norma Shearer is perfectly
cast for the long-suffering Mary Haines.
There’s a bit too much of her tears and
troubles for this commentator’s taste, but
the situation justifies it, and she does it
excellently. Virginia Weidler, her little
che-ild, should have been dropped into
the Pacific on the way over.
It’s curious that, in a talkie that’s re-
markable for its speed, the director
should have thrown in a mannequin
parade lasting for about ten minutes.
It’s as much of a break in the story as
if you’d gone outside for a cigarette.
Since the fashions displayed are gor-
geous or ravishing or something, a
feminine audience may forgive it, but
it’s a bad piece of picture-making.
* * * *
“Nurse Edith Cavell”
When she was shot by a German
firing squad on the morning of October
11, 1915, Nurse Edith Cavell was 50. In
this Sydney Regent offering she’s an
attractive, if somewhat chilly, young lady
of possibly 25 summers. Otherwise the
film holds fairly well to incident, if less
fairly to character.
The filmsmiths —English—have deco-
rated their account of the tragedy with
a measure of sentimentalism, but alto-
gether they have extracted the main de-
tails of the case and built a direct and
moving story. It makes a remarkably
good yarn—rescuing wounded from the
battlefields, hiding them in the cellars of
a hospital and then providing them with
faked papers and money, and passage on
a barge across the Dutch border.
Accepting the discrepancy in years,
Anna Neagle makes quite a good fist
of Nurse Cavell; a trifle remote at times,
but a fair representation of a woman
carrying out her dangerous work under
the noses of German authorities. Edna
May Oliver, Zazu Pitts and May Robson
give more than able support; George
Sanders, H. B. Warner and Robert Coote
head a good male cast.
* * * *
“These Glamor Girls”
Maybe flappers and their boy friends
will like this Sydney Liberty offering.
It’s yet another U.S.A. cahlege-dance
concoction, a mixture of booze and
starch, undergrads, and lasses drawn,
with one exception, from the N’Yark
Social Register. The moral for morons
is that the maid beerily invited along
from the Joyland Dancehall is the best
of the lot of them.
If Hollywood could be credited with
any serious purpose apart from the box-
office, the film could be taken as a savage
criticism of Uncle Sam’s university
education. Every now and then the pic-
ture-makers halt proceedings to assure
the audience that the film is dealing only
with a celebration night; that for the
rest of the year it’s hard swatting for
these semi-sozzled sons of U.S.A. aris-
tocracy. But if the swatting or any other
part of the system has anything of a
cultural nature the film doesn’t notice it.
Artbursts.
Frank Hurley’s Photos
Captain Frank Hurley, whose show
“My Twenty-five Years in Photography”
fills David Jones’s gallery in Sydney to
overflowing, is a Sydneysider who is
best known to Australians, as to the rest
of the world, as the producer (and
photographer) of the best wild-life films
ever seen on the screen. Geographical
societies know him as the photographer
with Shackleton and with Mawson in the
Antarctic and as an explorer of Centralia
and New Guinea on his own account.
Also, he was an official photographer
with the A.I.F.
Souvenirs of all these experiences figure
in the current show. The quality of the
work, technically considered, is very high.
Though there is no record that he ever
drew pay from a newspaper, Hurley is
the press photographer in excelsis. He
combines coolness, an unerring eye for
an effective picture, and a positive genius
for snatching a perfect negative out of
the jaws of bad light, an atmosphere of
panic and the maximum of personal dis-
comfort.
The best of his war pictures, such as
“Dawn at Passchendaele” and a marvel-
lous reproduction of troops in action with
’planes overhead and shells bursting in all
directions, show war just as the public
imagination pictures it. He achieves the
same result with an Antarctic blizzard.
His pictures of the Endeavor, in the pro-
cess of being caught and crushed by
Antarctic ice, are classics not only of
news photography but of technical ‘
achievement.
In quieter scenes, such as those that
exhibit the beauties of Tasmania, he is
equally effective. “Derwent, near New
Norfolk,” is the sort of achievement most
photographers expect to attain to only
once in a lifetime. The Australian
beaches, the South Sea Islands, the
crocodiles of Capricornia, the rugged
coasts of South Georgia, the great foun-
dries of B.H.P. are ingredients of a great
panorama.
* * * *
The latest show at S.A. Society of
Arts is by Albert Namatjira, the Arunta
tribesman who learned the painter’s art
from Rex Battarbee. His independent
development is wonderful. Sometimes
he suggests his master in coloring, but the
cliffs of Centralia force heavy color on
any truthful recorder. Nor is there any-
thing of the abo. in his work, except on
the rare occasions when he introduces
animal or man. His fidelity to nature
was vouched for by Dr. C. Duguid and
Dr. C. T. Madigan, who both know
Centralia well, at the opening, which was
unique in having more men present than
women.
The National Gallery setting an ex-
ample by buying a picture, half of those
on the walls were booked before the
gathering broke up, and nearly all the
rest on the following day, so that more
were sent for from Hermannsburg.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ino-s and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 Spring-wood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
Public Notice.
I, ALEXANDER NUSSBAUM, of Swiss
nationality, born at Thun, Switzerland, and
resident 17 years in Australia, now residing at
130 Victoria-street, King’s Cross, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
Act 1920-36.
Personal and Missing Friends.
Robert William Crooks.
BELIEVED to have come to Australia about
39 years ago from Northern Ireland. Anyone
knowing his whereabouts please communicate
with the PERPETUAL EXECUTORS, TRUS-
TEES & AGENCY CO (W.A.), LTD., 93 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth.
Re Estate of Matilda O’Connor, Deceased.
WILL the widow or daughter of the late
FRANCIS JENKINS, who died at Durham
Towers. Queensland, in 1887, or anyone know-
ing of their death or whereabouts, kindly com-
municate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 14
Castlereagh Street, Sydney, New South Wales?
IF MOSES WILLIAM WILLIAMS, at one
time of Cottonvale, Queensland, will communi-
cate with the UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Brisbane, he
will hear something to his advantage.
FLUSH OUT
15 MILES OF
KIDNEY TUBES
Win Back Pep . . . Vigor . . . Vim
Medical authorities agree that your kidneys
contain 15 MILES of tiny tubes or filters
which help to purify the blood and keep you
healthy.
If you have trouble with too frequent blad-
der passages with scanty amount causing
burning and discomfort, the 15 MILES of
kidney tubes need flushing out. This danger
signal may be the beginning of nagging back-
aches, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, get-
ting up nights, lumbago, swollen feet and
ankles, puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
get rid of more than 3 pounds of waste
matter, your body will take up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait. Ask
your chemist for DOAN’S BACKACHE KID-
NEY PILLS . . . used successfully the world
over by millions of people. They give quick
relief and will help to flush out the 15 MILES
of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
For two minutes on Saturday a silence
that could be felt enveloped the city—a
people’s homage to the dead of the “war
to end war.” The flags at the Cenotaph
were lowered ; four sentinels representing
the navy, the infantry, the artillery and
the air force stood on guard, their heads
bowed over reversed rifles.
Long before 11 o’clock 10,000 had
gathered in Martin-place for the Remem-
brance Commemoration. This year
women wept and men stood grim-eyed.
Came the silence —to be shattered by the
sounding of the Last Post. “O God, Our
Help in Ages Past,” a paean of praise
and a prayer for help, rose from 10,000
voices. With the reveille the flags flut-
tered to full mast.
The Governor was the first to place a
wreath on the Cenotaph. Soon it was a
blaze of color, for the Flanders poppy
glowed in every tribute. All day long
there was a constant stream of visitors
to the Cenotaph. In the evening girls
and boys on their way to party and
theatre slipped through Martin-place to
pause for a moment of remembrance.
Everybody bought a poppy on Friday.
Lady Wakehurst wore hers again on
Saturday at the Armistice Day com-
memoration ; so did almost every one of
the 10,000 who gathered there—the sale
this year was phenomenal. The sellers
worked hard; many of them started at
6 a.m. and did not leave off until 10 p.m.
For the fifth time Nurse Audrey Lewis
won the special Red Cross award for sell-
ing the greatest number of poppies.
“Cup fever” had Sydney in its grip
last week. There was a wireless in every
shop and in every restaurant. Courts
adjourned to allow the jury, to say
nothing of the Judge and lawyers, to
listen in to the Cup broadcast. Very
little work was done in office or shop
in the morning except in the making up
and drawing of sweeps. None was done
in the afternoon, and as time wore on
more intense grew the air. Every club had
its Cup party and its sweeps. For the
first time the Legacy Club held one,
such a success that it is going to hold
one every year. The Women’s Pioneer
Club always makes a big celebration on
this day, and, as usual, the flowers for
the decorations came from the home of
one of the members’ gardens.
The cabaret for the Dalwood Homes
was a great success ; 400 women found
their way to the new Romano’s for this.
A feature was a parade of beachwear,
sportswear, day and evening frocks.
Princess Radziwill (who when she was
Mrs. Stewart Dawson had been president
of the Dalwood Homes for years) was
an honored guest. Mrs. Akiyama, the
wife of the Consul-General for Japan,
and Mrs. Ichikawa, the wife of the Vice-
Consul, found the party entertaining' even
if they couldn’t understand what some
of the excitement was about.
Maxwell Anderson’s “Elizabeth the
Queen” was the magnet that drew a full
house to the Minerva on Saturday.
Against a setting of crimson velvet
Elizabeth’s costumes were magnificent.
They were of velvet and brocade, and
three of them looked as though they
might have been built around steel
girders. In contrast was the black velvet
worn by her in her final scene with
Essex. This was a straight hanging frock,
its only adornment knee-length ropes of
pearls.
More men than usual were in the audi-
ence. Frocking was sleek and expensive ;
furs got a final airing before being put
into cold storage. Mrs. lan Keith (her
husband is the Essex of the play) wore
copper satin under a hyacinth blue satin
coat. With her were Mrs. A. A. Hall
and the Sidney Garretts. American
visitors to Sydney, the G. S. Backus
couple, were there, she very thrilled to
be seeing Doris Packer as Elizabeth. She
and Doris are graduates of California
University. Noted in the crowd Dorothy
Dunkley’s black laces ; Dorothy and Kate
Towers were the centre of a group in
each interval. Playwrights Phillip Lewis
and Sumner Locke Elliott were early
arrivals. Madame Bodenweiser, a tiny
figure in black velvet, was a notable.
Liked Marie Burke’s oyster-grey geor-
gettes and the gold-and-enamel locket
that caught the eye as Mrs. Charles
Chauvel passed.
Here is a Norton Trevaire photograph
of Mrs. V. A. H. Sturdee, who with her
husband, Lieut.-General Sturdee, and
daughter Margaret is now in residence
at Victoria Barracks. They are all in
love with the old grey stone house with
its Moreton Bay figs, its shrubs and fruit-
trees. A son, Kenneth, lives in Melbourne.
He is engaged to Patricia Scott, daughter
of the Arthur Scotts, of Malvern, and
the family hope to go down to the
southern city in February for the wed-
ding.
Three unusual hats were worn by
Captan Frank Hurley’s daughters at the
opening of his exhibition “My Twenty-
five Years in Photography” last week.
Adelie’s (she is Mrs. Clifford Edwards)
was of natural straw very wide of brim,
and had a high funnel crown. It might
have been brought by her father from
one of his island trips. Yvonne’s and
Toni’s were of the beret family, but while
the former’s was of the pancake variety,
with a topknot of white ribbons on its
crown, Toni’s was like a turban. The
tiny painted scenes on Mrs. Hurley’s
long ebony earrings were the only spots
of color on her all-black rigout.
Old, young and middle-aged found
their way to this show. Two starry-eyed
girls voiced their preference for the
photographs of the ice-bound Endurance,
hastily adding, “How he could have taken
those war pictures with bombs falling
at his feet and machine-guns spitting fire,
we don’t know.” Consul-General for
France Tremoulet was there talking with
Mrs. C. L. Jones. A silver fox on her
shoulder and another as a muff gave a
luxurious touch to her black frock. Mrs.
Claude Plowman came. Mrs. H. Cary’s
blue hat had cornflowers sprouting from
its inverted crown. Mrs. John Parry-
Edwards, passing through Sydney on her
way from Fiji to Singapore, liked “The
Lagoon, Norfolk Island.” Mrs. L. A.
Hooke dropped in ; so did Myrtle Salter,
one of her favorites “Summer Along the
Sydney Coast.” Two young things,
Heather and Valerie Finlayson, who
think no one could have nicer neighbors
than the Hurleys, were enthusiasts. They
live next door, and exchange cuttings and
gardening notes with the Hurleys over
the back fence.
All the pictures have their titles printed
below or above them, so there is no need
of catalogues. Somebody having noted
that Mrs. Edwards’s name is Adelie, a
moniker also appearing on pictures of
penguins, she explained that the penguin
family is separated into two groups, the
Emperor and the Adelie, the former the
larger. Yes, she had been named after
the Adelie. This afternoon and on
Friday Captain Hurley gives talks on
his adventures with a camera.
Another of the gifted Macks, the
widow of Prof. Launcelot Harrison, who
had been Amy Eleanor Mack, has died,
leaving the writing world of Australia
the poorer. She was a sister to writer
and lecturer Louise and to Sid Mack,
K.C. Amy Mack in her early writing
days wrote many striking short stories.
In later years she devoted her energies
mostly to nature studies. Articles from
her pen were marked by sensitive fancy
and grace of style. Life these last few
years, with husband and sister Louise
gone, must have been lonely for her, even
though, she had the Mack gift of making
and retaining friendships. She will be
missed at many a function where writers
meet. Amy and Louise Mack were pupils
of the Girls’ High School in the
days when Ethel Turner and other brn-
liant ones, inspired by their beloved head-
mistress, Mrs. Garvin, blossomed behind
the tall brick walls of the old school, then
in Castlereagh-street, near Market-street,
on the spot where David Jones’s store
now stands. Another sister (Gertrude) is
still in London.
The French-Australian League of Help
that did so much for the French cause
in 1914-18 has been revived. Its rooms
in Malcolm House, Majcolm-lane, are
already a hive of industry, but more
workers are needed, so much is there to
be done for the French soldier in the
line and in hospital, and for the widow
and the orphan. The League has £5OO
already in hand. It is working overtime
for the success of the ballet matinee that
will take place on December 11. Mrs.
T. H. Kelly is organising this, and 200
of Frances Scully’s pupils will take part.
The Danish Consul’s wife, Madame Erik
Fischer (Helene Kirsova), is training four
of these in the Pas de Quatre from “Swan
Lake.” Williamsons are giving the
Theatre Royal, and conductor Andrew
McCunn and producer Felix Lewis are
giving their services. An enjoyable after-
noon is predicted. Tennis at the home
of Mrs. C. L. Jones and music at the
home of the Jordan lady are two other
moneyspinners to take place shortly.
Mesdames Auffray and Brenac are the
League secretaries ; offers of help will be
gratefully received by Madame Jacques
Playoust, president of the sewing and
knitting committee.
The C.W.A. war comforts fund and
the benevolent fund will benefit from the
matinees on November 28 and 30 of
“Follow the Major,” a three-act comedy
by C. T. Lorenz. The pretty girl pic-
tured here is Gwen Plumb. She will take
the part of Flo, the Major’s overzealous
secretary, whose anxiety to be helpful
brings about many amusing situations in
the play. Gwen took the part of Binnie
Barrie in “Wives Have Their Uses.” On
Saturday at the finals of the British
Drama League Festival, her playing
of Pearl in the one-act “Derelict” was
judged the best individual performance ;
so she is the first holder of the Harry
Tighe Cup. Brian Weekes photograph.
The David Maughans, of Bellevue Hill,
had a wedding in the family last week,
when daughter Jennifer became Mrs.
Keith Storey at All Saints’, Woollahra.
Jennifer’s father is the well-known K.C.,
and her grandfather was statesman
Edmund Barton. Keith is a son of the
H. S. P. Storeys, of Strathfield. The
bride’s white frock, an exquisite affair
of Chantilly lace and marquisette, had
long, slim, pointed sleeves ; her veil was
a froth of tulle, her flowers lily-of-the-
valley. Sister Joan and Marie Christoe
’maided in frocks of jacaranda-blue mar-
quisette. Toasts at Nyrangle, the home
of the bride’s parents, where Mrs.
Maughan received in a frock of mist-
blue sheer.
The original orange used by Nellie
Stewart as Sweet Nell and the frock worn
by Florence Young in “The Duchess of
Danzig” (a long, green, princess-robe-
looking affair with gold trimmings) were
some of the items of interest in the
Theatrical Exhibition held by the British
Drama League last week. There were
old playbills and model stages. From his
Japanese collection Professor Saddler
lent fans and prints of the traditional
scenes of the No plays. Harry Tighe’s
contribution was a photograph of Nancy
Price with and without make-up, to
show the difference, and one of Esme
Berrenger as Hamlet, one of the few
women who have played the part. The
programme of the original production of
“The Mikado,” with Nellie Stewart as
Yum-Yum, is a decorative piece of work
on Japanese paper. No Australian theat-
rical collection would be complete with-
out a photograph of J. C. Williamson
and Maggie Moore. You have guessed
it —he was taken with his arm very
carefully resting on a pedestal! The
Isaacs lady declared the exhibition open
in a speech that pleased every theatre-
lover present.
Madame Gertrude Bodenweiser, of
Vienna, director of the Modern Inter-
pretive Ballet, and Zelia Raye, of Lon-
don (a vice-president of the stage branch
of the Imperial Society of Teachers of
Dancing), were the guests of the Poly-
nesian Club on a recent Sunday evening.
The guests, who were presented with lei,
were delighted with the posture dances
of Polynesia and different forms of the
Maori poi dance. Another highlight of
the evening was the “sasa” of Samoa,
which is performed seated, the back-
ground an intricately designed tapa cloth,
the gift of Ratu Thakombau, royal chief
of Fiji.
Miss Raye brought Penelope and
Patience Cay, and Madame Bodenweiser
two members of her ballet, Emmy Taus-
sig and Natacha Grigorievna. Madame
Bodenweiser was so charmed with the
dancing that she has asked permission
to come again and bring all the members
of her ballet with her.
Mrs. P. J. Manley, just back from Bris-
bane, brings news of the illness of Mrs.
Lorenzo, wife of Colonel Lorenzo. Mrs.
Manley and Mrs. Lorenzo left about a
fortnight ago for a holiday in Queens-
land. They went by flying-boat and came
to the conclusion that this was the ideal
way to travel. On Cup day, instead of
being joint hostess with Mrs. Manley to
a big party, Mrs. Lorenzo was lying seri-
ously ill in hospital. The attack came
on suddenly, and the doctors said the
only hope was an immediate operation.
An" SOS brought Colonel Lorenzo up
immediately. Latest news is that the
patient is well on the road to recovery.
Commodore’s Day at the Royal Motor
Yacht Club is always a friendly affair.
The grounds and the clubroom.are early
filled with men spick-and-span from the
tips of their yachting caps to the toes of
their white shoes, and with girls in
colored linens or nautical-looking and
workmanlike in slacks. On Saturday the
sun shone, the waters sparkled—interest
in the cruiser and speedboat races was
great. The windows of the pennant-hung
clubhouse were filled with cheering spec-
tators. Commodore A. S. McDonald and
Mrs. McDonald were pleased that so
many turned up to their party. General
Sturdee and Brig.-General Stantke were
among the wearers of the King’s uniform.
Postmaster-General E. Harrison and Mrs.
Harrison were among the guests; so were
the S. Stuarts —they are pillars of the
Broken Bay Yacht Club.


Divorce Notices.
TO BASIL HARRY FLEMING formerly of
Wellington in New Zealand but now of
parts unknown Showman.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife PHOEBE
FLEMING of Wellington in New Zealand
claiming to be domiciled in New Zealand has
filed in the Supreme Court of New Zealand
at Wellington a petition in divorce against
you claiming dissolution of her marriage on
the grounds of wilful desertion without just
cause continued for more than three years
namely from May 1933 to the present time.
You are therefore notified that unless you enter
an appearance and file an answer in the said
Court at Wellington within Forty days after
the date of the publication of this advertisement
the said petition will be heard and determined
in your absence. A copy of the citation and
petition will be supplied to you on your applying
for the same to the Supreme Court Office at
Wellington.
DATED at Wellington this Third day of
November, 1939.
(L.s.) G. E. POLLOCK,
Deputy Registrar.
Friends of the respondent are particularly re-
quested to forward to him the foregoing ad-
vertisement.
REGINALD MANIFOLD MORGAN is the
Solicitor for the Petitioner, whose address for
service is at the offices of MESSRS. MELLISH
& MORGAN, Solicitors, 212 Lambton Quay,
Wellington, New Zealand.
TO PERCY HUBERT SUTTON HEWER of
Hokitika New Zealand Dredge Hand.
TAKE NOTICE that a citation has been
issued out of the Supreme Court of New Zea-
land at Westport citing you to appear and answer
the petition of EVELYN REBECCA HEWER
of Corbyvale New Zealand wherein she prays
for a dissolution of her marriage with you on
the ground that you have been separated from
her for a period of three years and upwards
and such citation intimates that in default -of
your so doing the Court will proceed to hear
the said petition and to pronounce sentence
therein notwithstanding your absence NOW
THEREFORE take notice that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within Ninety days after
the date of this publication to attend in
person or by your Solicitor at the Supreme
Court Office at Westport New Zealand and
there to enter an appearance without which
you will not be allowed to address the Court
at any stage of the proceedings. A copy of
the said citation and petition will be supplied
to you on your applying for the same at the
Supreme Court Office at Westport aforesaid.
DATED this Second day of November,
1939.
(L.s.) W. J. BLACKLER,
Registrar.
Friends of the Respondent are particularly
requested to forward to him the foregoing
advertisement.
MESSRS. A. A. WILSON & SON are the
Solicitors for the Petitioner, whose address
for service is at the office of the said A. A.
WILSON & SON, Kawatiri Buildings,
Brougham Street, in the Town of Westport,
New Zealand.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Divorce.
BETWEEN EILEEN MYRTLE GOODLUCK
Petitioner
And LEONARD CLIVE GOODLUCK
Respondent.
TO LEONARD CLIVE GOODLUCK last
heard of at Hobart in Tasmania Carpenter.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife has filed
a petition for divorce against you on the
ground of desertion If you wish to defend
the matter you must enter an appearance at the
Supreme Court Hobart within Fourteen days
of the date of publication of this notice.
(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Registrar.
F. C. MITCHELL, Solicitor, T. and G.
Building, Hobart, Tasmania.
Melabourne
Chatter
The war seemed to make little differ-
ence to Cup Week, although, several
major functions were off the map. The
hotels were full and the spirit of hos-
pitality was booming, not so much at
private festivities, for most people who
regularly turn on parties seem to be
playing a waiting game, but at im-
promptu round-ups on race nights. This
Cup Week devoid of traditional formali-
ties was certainly a success, and for the
socially ambitious more of a rest than
usual; for with the Government House
and the Australian Club balls out of
the programme there was no heady ex-
citement about who would be invited and
who wouldn’t.
On the last day of the spring meetings
at Flemington the green lawns showed
little sign of their four sessions’ endur-
ance-test under hundreds of thousands of
spiked heels. The flowers bloomed in
lavish abundance in the sunshine, but a
wintry wind swept the vast spaces of the
upper stands, and there were far more fur
capes present than there were summer
frocks unprotected by woollen coats.
These lightweight coats received as much
backing as the day’s favorites. Mrs.
Widge Grey wore hers in Pacific-green,
cut according to sway-back maxim;
Lynette Dickenson chose hers in navy-
blue and matched it up in the neck-caress-
ing scarf attached to her honey-colored
straw hat.
Mrs. Basil Fitchett’s corn-yellow
coat was echoed in the shade of her
hat with its two-storeyed doll’s crown.
Mrs. A. V. Kewney wore black and
furs and a tall, peaked hat. Nancy Heath,
of Adelaide, was also in black, with
emerald-green as an accessory for her
hat. Two girls who enjoyed themselves,
no matter how wide their punting guesses
were off the mark, were Phyllis and
Yvonne Wearne, who seldom go to the
races; Phyllis wore a powder-pink suit
and Yvonne’s suit was a partnership of
plain grey skirt and grey coat diagonally
striped with thin hairlines in red and
beige.
Among racegoers were noticed Paddy
Wilkinson, in black, with her hat smoth-
ered in pale-blue ostrich feathers; her
sister, Mrs. Edric Henty, who wore her
feathers upon her gloves; Valerie
Downes, in navy-blue with scarf drap-
eries dangling from her hat; and Mrs.
Maurice Nicholas, wearing navy and
white and a snood. Margaret Cox, just
returned from abroad, was in a sky-
blue coat with padded pockets and a fluff
of white veil over a white hat. Beatrice
Mollard chose a pastel-blue coat and a
white hat-cwra-snood.
At the Oaks summer hats were given
their heads, but the picture-brim was no-
where to be seen, for width has been
usurped by rakish dips and twiddly
crowns and trimmings in flora and fauna
that have to be either alluring or amus-
ing. Lightweight frocks also were present
in quantities, though their wearers
showed a tendency to stand on the lawns
in the sun rather than to rest their legs
in the stand. Mrs. J. T. Thompson
played safe in navy blue, and daughter
Enid chose a fondant-pink hat to reflect
the predominating pastel shade in her
black-and-pink-figured dress. Shirley
MacGregor went in for lilac in a big
way with her halo hat, woollen coat with
its flippant bow at the back and even
lilac shoes (and she wore an anklet be-
neath her sheer stocking).
Mrs. Alan McGregor and Mrs. Hans
Robertson were all for black and white
and sleek coiffures. Mrs. Robertson
wore hers with an all-over parting. Mrs.
Ronald Nott was severity itself in the
matter of black frock and style of closely-
shorn hair, but her imagination knew no
bounds in the matter of an ice-blue satin
sash with a lowered hipline silhouette
balanced by a couple of blue roses as a
visor over the forehead. Jean Wallace
Mitchell, in black and silver foxes, and
Sonia Parrish, in the yellow of a canary,
still found plenty to talk about, although
they have just been round the world in
each other’s company.
In the hotels at night all last week all
the lounges were packed, and the noise
increased as the cigarette smoke
thickened. Through the haze men in
uniform were visible, some in the odd
mixtures they had worn to Flemington
in the afternoon —khaki breeches with
tweed coats and vice versa, or military
boots and caps with ordinary civilian
suits. Exceptions included Tom Guest,
who made a grand entry to Menzies in
brand-new, expensively-tailored khaki.
General Rankin called in at Scott’s in
the scarlet trappings of undress uniform.
Menzies on Oaks night was in fine
“Boomps-a-Daisy” fettle, old and young,
the slim and the plump letting themselves
go at the call of a few bars of swingy
rhythm. A few people drifting in among
the dinner-dancers from the concert at
Government House entered into the party
spirit in no time. And so they should have,
after the genuine thing in imported cham-
pagne that the vice-regal couple had
turned on for supper. But those who
had chosen Wirth’s Circus and a diet of
peanuts and ice-cream for the beginning
of their night out were much slower to
make merry. Noticed among the dancers
in the crowded ballroom were Colonel
and Mrs. Dave Blake, Captain and Mrs.
Fred Haig with some Adelaide visitors,
Dr. and Mrs. Garnet Leary, Mrs. lan
Macdonald and Gerry Miley, and Jayne
Harper with several of her admiring
young men.
Antoine’s photograph is of Ethel
Parnham (known to her friends as
“Bunny”), who will give a recital in the
Assembly Hall on November 22. Miss
Parnham is a young pianist who has
graduated from the Albert-street Conser-
vatorium, and who hopes to go abroad
as soon as the world is in a more settled
state. Her programme will include Bach,
Schumann, Brahms and, in the latter half,
a group of French modernists. Contralto
Frances Forbes will assist.
Those people who always do what’s
done even if the cost is several hours of
solid music turned up at one or both
of the G.-H. concerts in aid of the Red
Cross. Highly-priced tickets sold easily,
for, while the non-musical swallowed the
bait of entry to the doors of the vice-
regal mansion, the musical-minded made
the most of the opportunity of again
hearing and seeing Malcolm Sargent in
action and of listening to John Brownlee
on the first night and to Jeanne Gautier
on the second.
Sir Winston and Lady Dugan’s hos-
pitality at the two orchestral concerts for
the Red Cross did not stop at the lend-
ing of their ballroom —there followed a
general invitation to supper served in
both the ballroom buffet and the State
dining-room, mellow in the flickering
glow of candles. And the supper was
not limited to coffee, cakes and ice-cream.
The pop of champagne corks was as
music to the ears, even those saturated
with the magnificence of “Finlandia” and
Beethoven’s Eighth. The Governor and
Lady Dugan made their way informally
around the tables, chatting to those they
knew and those they didn’t, appearing
unexpectedly at somebody’s elbow with
“Have you everything you want?” or
“I can see you have some champagne,
but how about something to eat?”
Knighthood was in flower at these con-
certs ; decorations were worn on numbers
of bosoms, but so resplendent was the
Chief Justice of the High Court of Aus-
tralia, John Latham, that lesser be-
ribboned gentlemen were twopence a
bunch. Mile. Jeanne Gautier, the soloist
at the second concert, wore a coral-pink
sash upon a white chiffon gown, of diffi-
cult cut for a violinist, for bare shoulders
and low decolletage emphasised muscular
movement. Mile. Jeanne possesses
cleanly-cut features, and she does her
hair beautifully, with emphasis upon the
ears and an upward lift.
The audience was requested to be
seated by eight, so there was plenty of
time for the formal entry of the official
guests, who took the side aisle before
mounting the balcony, and the impres-
sive entrance to a roll of drums of Lord
and Lady Dugan, who with measured
tread took the centre pathway, bound
also for the balcony. Among the pro-
gramme-sellers were Pat and Margaret
Rutledge, Valerie Sloane and Rosemary
Lyon. Rosemary looked well in slimly-
fitting gown and tunic of unadorned off-
white crepe. When Peggy Fraser wears
her white foxes they could never pass
unnoticed, and when Mrs. Rupert
Downes arrays herself in pastels with an
angel’s halo in her hair the effect calls for
superlatives.
One of the few traditional Cup Week
fixtures which took place as usual was
St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball, the commit-
tee for which is handing over part of the
proceeds to the Red Cross. The organi-
sation for this function is such that every
detail is considered and nothing is left
to chance. The large committee always
holds itself responsible for the sales of
tickets, cheques come in, and so do
donations, so that the expenses are cut
down as much as possible and the profits
are considerable.
As the vice-regal couple were absent
(Sir Winston and Lady Dugan kept only
three Cup-week engagements ; the Cup
informally and the two G.-H. concerts
formally and officially), the Lord Mayor
and Mrs. Coles, escorted to the dais by
the Len Buxtons, received the 16 debs.
These young girls timed their steps per-
fectly, having been well rehearsed by
Mrs. J. J. Daly. Among them were three
trainees from St. Vincent’s Hospital,
Stella Keenan, Mary Cahill and Aileen
Hunt.
For the local lads and lasses Jayne
Harper’s dinner dance was one of the high
spots of the week. Jayne sent out her
keep-the-date invitations, printed like tele-
graph forms, several weeks ago, and she
sent out further come-hithers when she
had adjusted her couple of hundred
guests to the space of the Australia’s
ballroom. The party was a Hawaiian ex-
travaganza, with palm-trees and luscious
fruits, canoes and paper leis, and two
orchestras, one for swing and another
which twanged its guitars in the accepted
hula-hula manner.
White dinner jackets were worn by
lads who owned them, including Tom
Power, Birger Bjornebye, Theo Scales,
Tim McKellar, Lindsay Cust, Ken Robin-
son, Peter Tronson and Athol Wilson.
The last-named, a new recruit to the
A.1.F., had to be up at crack of dawn
next day to go into camp. An accele-
rator for the evening’s fun was a sooth-
sayer—each guest was given a card
which entitled him or her to a future
populated with fair men and dark
women or vice versa. Original interludes
were the handing round to the girls of
please-give-me-a-dance telegrams, each
from a man at the party, and an off-
slipper dance where the men did the
hunting in the manner of Cinderella’s
prince. Jayne’s shed slipper revealed in
their full sparkle the jewels in the toes
of her sheer stockings.
Athol Shmith’s camera made this por-
trait of Shirley Sleight, who is on the
committee for the Tyros’ bridge party to
be held at the Palais on November 16.
Shirley was a decorative figure at recent
race meetings, and on Cup Day was the
envy of her friends when, as heavy rain
fell after the last race, she made of her-
self and her hat a Christmas package
within a layer of translucent green water-
proof.
The David Robertsons’ Cup Week
cocktail party was a welcome-home to
Mrs. George Saenger, who missed visit-
ing her own country, the U.S.A., during
her last trip. Guests were invited to drop
some silver coins into an upturned beach
umbrella in the lounge for war charities.
Mrs. Robertson’s daughter, Mrs. Laing-
Hay, came home in time for the party.
She had been away just previously re-
cuperating after her recent illness, so
Mary Saenger and Edith Hoare offered
to help with the invitations. They tele-
phoned their friends, who in turn tele-
phoned theirs, so that contacts were made
far afield —which was all to the good of
the charity concerned.
The men and girls who haven’t much
money to spend, but who are quite as
war-minded as the leisured and the
wealthy, had a good time at the “five-
bob” Gaiety Ball in the Town Hall.
Everybody wore a mask, and these semi-
disguises were available with ears and
noses if preferred at a penny a pop in
the foyer. Such a trifle is civic fame
among the city’s workers that the Lord
Mayor, who had offered a prize to the
first person who spotted him, danced with
12 pretty girls in a change-partners
“Boomps-a-Daisy” before he was recog-
nised. Lady Angliss, who was president
of the committee, got into the toils of
the same energetic dance, and although
she didn’t seem to be enjoying herself
kept going with sporting fortitude until
the music ceased.
Mrs. I. A. Green, who was the
honorary organiser of the festivity, looked
particularly well in ice-blue and petunia,
a scheme of color which suits perfectly
her attributes of white hair and smooth
complexion. Her young daughter Lois
wore peach-pink chiffon. Proceeds were
for the Lord Mayor’s Red Cross Fund,
his Comforts Fund by now being well
under way. The decorations of young
poplars and a joyous array of flowers
banked upon the stage served two pur-
poses, for they were part of the pro-
gramme for a luncheon to businessmen
held upon that date, the luncheon being
Cr. Coles’s first bit of propaganda for
his appeal.
The cocktail cabaret party at the Aus-
tralia went off with a bang, with every-
body buying drinks for everybody else,
all for the cause of the Woorigoleen Red
Cross. The organisers had a knotty nut
to crack oyer the numbers expected, for
as people sip their cocktails on the move
no tables were reserved. Hence the fact
that the committee people stood by hop-
ing they had guessed within a hundred
or so in relation to the food problem.
All was well, and 600 hungry and thirsty
gaiety seekers demanded admission from
a majestic flunkey who guarded the door
dressed up to kill in cherub-blue and
silver.


*
fOR W£AK M£N AND WOM£N
toss of vitality and premature feeling
of old age are due to failure of certain
glands.
821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS contain
genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely revitalise you, banishing pre-
mature old age and weakness. Price
10/6. Write for this amazing new
treatment TO-DAY.
T. JONES & CO.,
Chemists,
319 George St., Sydney
m
GLAND
TONIC
TABLfTS
Radio
Technical Digest’
The new and different monthly from
the publishers of “RADIO” ( U.S.A. ).
''‘RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST” has beer,
produced to fill a long-felt need. Few people
can afford to purchase every important over-
seas radio journal, but “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST” provides a regular condensation of
the world’s most important radio publications.
There is a wealth of interesting technical and
topical material bi-monthly such as is only
possible in a publication of the nature of
/“RADIO TECHNICAL DIGEST.” It brings
to you in condensed form the most important
developments in radio from the world’s lead-
ing radio laboratories. Apart from the valu-
able technical nature of “RADIO TECHNICAL
DIGEST,” it contains a large amount of
topical material, making interesting reading.
You can subscribe direct to “RADIO
TECHNICAL DIGEST” now by remitting the
Australian equivalent of 3 American dollars
through “The miller in’’ Office. 252 George
Street, S'ydney.
PETROL RATIONING
The Minister for Defence has notified the
public that plans have been made for the
substitution in an “emergency” of Charcoal
Gas units on Military Transport equipment
in Australia.
WHY WAIT FOR THIS
“EMERGENCY”?
Any handy man can now make his own effi-
cient gas plant to operate Tractors, Trucks,
Cars or any kind of spark plug stationary
engine—from the crude oil drum type to the
latest design.
A good gas plant can be made out of odds
and ends for a few shillings so simple is
the principle. Our set of easily understood
drawings and complete instructions, which
cost £l, shows you how to do the job in a
practical way, and the engine is not altered.
You can drive on petrol or charcoal at will, and
SAVE 90% IN FUEL COSTS.
Send now.
F. MAHER
178 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY.
THE SERVICE MAN
The U-boat Campaign.
In two months, September 3 to
November 4 U-boats, with some help
from surface craft and mines, sank
94 British, French and neutral ships,
totalling 380,549 tons, of which 56
ships, totalling 238,793 tons, were
British. Not many, compared with the
losses in April, 1917, the worst Great
War year: 354 ships, totalling 834,000
tons; and only two subs. sunk. In that
grim year enemy underwater, surface
craft and mines sent 2673 ships, totalling
6,184,000 tons, to the bottom, subs,
accounting for 2439. At the outbreak
of the present war Britain had 18,500,000
tons afloat, and the sinkings are reckoned
at li p.c. In 1914-18 the Old Man
built ships at the rate of about 1,250,000
tons p.a., a performance that could now
be improved upon, if necessary.
So far British shipping has kept pace
with losses. In the second month of
the war 72,000 tons went down, 52,000
tons of German shipping was captured,
and 27,000 tons bought from foreign
countries. Another 57,000 tons of new
ships came off the stocks. In the first month
of the last war there was scarcely any
submarine activity, but on September 5
the cruiser Pathfinder was torpedoed
off the English coast. No British mer-
chant ship was scuppered until the 860-
ton Ghitra was torpedoed by Ul7 off
Norway on October 20, 11 weeks after
war broke out. In November two
more British steamers were sunk. Others
followed in January, 1915. -The general
U-boat blockade did not start till Feb-
ruary 18, 1915, when the Kaiser signed
a decree that every merchant vessel in
seas surrounding the British Isles should
be liable to submarine attack. In those
days torpedoes were rarely used. Out-
side submarine sinkings there were losses
through raiders —the Emden got 17
vessels, totalling 74,000 tons.
Exit the Firing Squad.
“Two Pip”: Abolition of the death
penalty in the British Army for desertion,
cowardice and sleeping on sentry duty is
a big step towards British adoption of
A.I.F. traditions. Under the Defence
Act, A.I.F. men in the last war were
liable to the death penalty only for de-
sertion to the enemy, treachery and
traitorously delivering up posts or vessels.
Even then, sentence needed confirmation
by the Governor-General before execu-
tion ; and sentence was never inflicted.
In the British Army, major insubordina-
tion and all forms of desertion were
liable to get the culprit shot almost out
of hand. German penal discipline was
not nearly so severe.
In 1916, on the recommendation of
Birdwood and Haig, a strong attempt
was made by the British Government to
have A.I.F. men brought under the Army
Act. Birdwood wrote after Pozieres that
discipline was likely to suffer when the
Anzacs realised that they were not on
the same footing as other soldiers.
Rawlinson and Haig strongly backed
him, the former saying that he could not
be responsible for discipline unless the
law was altered forthwith. The Army
Council declared the matter of “the
utmost gravity for the discipline of the
whole army.”
After Bullecourt some of our own
generals were in favor of a change. The
fight went on through 1917, Birdwood,
who was never harsh, suggesting a com-
promise —• death for desertion only.
Hughes and Pearce firmly refused. Any-
way, a change would have meant trouble
—Anzacs saw the death-sentence parades
of the B.E.F. with what the War History
describes as a “sullen sympathy.” To
the end of the war it was the pride of
Australians that their force was the only
one among those of the Allies in which
disgrace was the supreme penalty.
British public opinion changed towards
the end of the war —Horatio Bottomley
campaigned vigorously. The change has
come now. Only murder, treachery and
mutiny can henceforward bring a British
Tommy before a firing squad.
New Quarters for the Boys.
“Ek Dum”: Ingleburn Camp, 28 miles
from Sydney, became the largest military
base in N. S. Wales on November 7,
when 5000 members of the second A.I.F.
went into camp there. It is within sight
of the farm of St. Andrews, once occu-
pied by Andrew Thompson, at whose
house, near Windsor, the first gathering
in Australia to make local volunteer-
defence arrangements was held when
“I thought un might come in ’andy deown in they dugouts, mister.”
there was fear of a rising in the days of
Governor Bligh.
Ingleburn used to be a quiet little
township, but 600 huts have been run
up in the last month or two, with post
office, telephone exchange, hospital and
workshops. About £170,000 has been
spent on building. The wooden huts are
laid out along a high-timbered ridge, and
all have electric light and running water.
Each battalion has three kitchens and
five mess huts —80ft. by 18ft.—and well-
equipped shower-rooms. There are
Y.M.C.A. and Salvation Army marquees,
such as were familiar during the last war.
The recruits had a few weeks’ pre-
liminary training at Liverpool, and made
their first route march of 6| miles to
their new quarters.
In all the States the lads of the new
A.I.F. are a fine lot, the country boys
especially. For physique and intelligence
there can be few troops in the world to
equal therm
“Z.N.”: Winston Churchill’s review of
naval warfare given to the Commons
suggests that Germany must have greater
facilities for building submarines than
naval authorities had imagined. By all
accounts the enemy had 70 or so when
the war started, about 50 p.c. 250-
tonners designed for short-range coastal
work. About half the number have gone
already, and the First Lord reckons that
a fair estimate of future losses is from
two to four a week. He thinks that re-
placements will be two a week and that
we shall have to face 100 by January—
less sinkings. A submarine is not a small
craft —the German seagoing ones are over
200 ft. long—and interior equipment is
intricate. Few countries have been able
to produce them under a year each, but
the German programme just before the
outbreak of war showed that they were
being turned out in seven months.
* * * *
“Young Salt”: Admiral Lord Chat-
field has had to admit that none of the
seven entrances of Scapa Flow was suf-
ficiently defended when the U-boat which.
sank the Royal Oak entered. He de-
clared that the long-familiar immunity of
Scapa Flow had led to a too-easy
valuation of its dangers. When the first
torpedo struck it was thought to be an
air attack, and many men who rushed
to quarters behind armor were trapped
when the second salvo sent the ship to
the bottom. It seems, however, that “the
Admiralty, on whom the responsibility
broadly rests, has learned a bitter lesson
and will take nothing for granted.” And
the relatives of the 800 lost have also had
their bitter lesson, and the bitterness will
endure.
* * * *
“X.T.”: Following British Army prac-
tice, the Australian forces are adopting
the threes formation for drill. The old
command “form fours” will be heard no
more. Announcing that change, the
Minister said that in future there will
be three sections in rifle platoons and
an extra issue of machine-guns —Brens
when they are available; “the light
machine-gun now becomes the infantry's
primary weapon.” It seems only a step
from that point to a multi-barrelled
machine-gun front pouring a long series
of bullet streams over a parapet like an
irrigation spray and operated by re-
motely-controlled photo-electric cells.
Backed by heavy machine-guns of the
Madsen type firing explosive shells with
out flash from the front lines and a
heavy barrage operated from 200 ft.-deep
forts, this system should make the need
for man-power in the front lines entirely
unnecessary and war itself purposeless.
*
“N.D.”: Two detectives “familiar with
s.p. bettors and women of questionable
character” have been stationed at the
Ingleburn camp to keep undesirables
away. There is no pub within five miles
and no wet canteen. When the recruit
hies to the milk bar clutching his copy
of Eric, or Little by Little everyone will
be happy.
sc * * *
“Ek Dum”: One who should know
takes his oath on the Red Page that when
supplies of clobber for the N.T. force
were assembled in Melbourne recently
it was discovered that the kit included
only shorts for outside wear and woollen
ankle-length pants for under-covering.
* * * *
“McSporran”: After all the trouble
members of the Scottish-Australian regi-
ments have had to fit themselves out
with kilts, they are being compelled to
hand them back because kilts will not
be worn on active service. Even Scot-
tish regiments have long since given up
the little skirts in tropic climes. The
Black Watch, which has had a battalion
in India since the year one, has for years
decked itself in khaki shorts. However,
they are wider in the leg than the
ordinary article and have a kiltlike
swing. They are considerably more com-
fortable than the Sassenach type and are
apparently manufactured by the frugal
redshanks out of woven cast-iron. I have
a pair which have seen rough wear for
13 years, and time has scarcely left a
mark on them.
* * * *
“Koura”: Anything at all may make
ammunition for the propaganda war. The
German radio which sank Britain’s
H.M.S. Kestrel —the inland naval station
—has reported a serious loss to Maori-
land’s naval strength. A shore battery,
it stated, had for some mysterious reason
sank one of M.L.’s own warships, H.M.S.
Dolphin. Even before it was sunk there
was no such ship: but the fishing
launch that copped a shell in Lyttelton
Harbor was called the Dolphin.
# * * *
“Sig. 6233”: We paraded for our first
army pay, a grinning mob, and each
man’s grin broadened as he stepped to
the desk, held out his left hand for his
portion and saluted. Came the turn of
a hard-bitten youngster just ahead of me.
He paced forward smartly ; then, his left
closing on the two notes, he threw his
right arm upwards with a loud “Heil
Hitler!” “What’s the meaning of this,
my man?” the paymaster snorted. “Well,”
the youngster said, “I’ve been humping a
swag for six years, and no other bloke
ever got me a job that panned out a
coupla quid first go.”
* * * *
“D.E.”: Already lack of wet canteens
in military camps has contributed to the
loss of two young lives in N.S.W. In
one case a poor devil of a country lad
was run through by a boy on guard duty
whose bayonet he had seized in a mad
frolic, and who judged that in his fight-
ing-drunk condition he was capable of
anything. In the second, an R.A.F. wire-
less operator who had been drinking at
night “in a hotel adjoining the aero-
drome” fell out of a train and was
picked up dead. Both were splendid
types, and in the second affair the
coroner pointed the moral in cogent sen-
tences : “If refreshment in moderation
could be obtained in their quarters these
young men would not be found in such
numbers drinking to excess.”
* * * *
“Cartaret de Cartaret”: Good job
there isn’t a Labor party in Guernsey or
something spectacular would happen the
first time its leaders voiced their oppo-
sition to compulsory training. The
Guernsey militia, the oldest military unit
in the Empire, is known to have existed
in a.d. 896, perhaps long before, and
compulsion was in force in the year
900. In 1146 some local Andy Fisher
exempted trainees from conscription
for service outside the island, but when
the last war was on all eligibles as one
man waived their privilege and joined
the Royal Guernsey Light Infantry Bat-
talion. Guernsey lads have made history
with the rifle, winning the Kolapore Cup
in ’9B and the Queen’s Prize at Bisley the
next year. They were served out with
muskets and ball for the first time in
1695, when every man from 16 to 60
was on the panel, and there were no
reserved trades. Conscription still rules
in Guernsey, and about 200 rank and file
arq kept up in peace-time. None of them
has to be conscripted. Somebody nearly
gets pushed under a cow in the scramble
every time there is a vacancy.
* * * *
“Lobo”: Those white canvas tents
stand out too conspicuously in militia
camps. Maybe there is no practical need
for camouflage in Australia, but war con-
ditions should be aimed at, and a little
shadow painting could be easily effec-
tive. A method adopted in the.R.N.A.S.,
where supplies of paint were not readily
to hand, was to heave buckets of water
over the tents and to scatter them with
mud. That method merged tent lines
into the background at anything over
2000 ft.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
6PM Perth .. . 500 watts
6AM Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George's Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
“second”
hand on the
clock of communication
In the space of a split second,
the latest news flashes across
the world to you with clarity
and brilliance when your
radio is re-valved with
Sealed for your protection
THE FLYING COLUMN
The War's First Dogfights.
“Aileron”: Last week saw the first real
dogfight of the new war on the Western
Front. According to reports, nine
Frenchmen in American Curtiss Hawks,
of models three or four years old,
tackled 27 German Messerschmitt
fighters and, after diving, zooming and
tumbling among the foe, brought nine of
them down in full sight of watching thou-
sands along the Maginot Line. The
“skill and speed of the French pilots got
them out of many tight corners.”
If it is true that the French fighters
were old Hawks, the Messerschmitts
must be the most overrated machines in
the world. The old Hawk had only an
800-h.p. engine, and only two guns against
the four which the Messerschmitts are
known to carry. Their cruising speed is
around 240 m.p.h., while a Messerschmitt
held a world record for level flight re-
“So THAT’S what this lever does!”
cently at 389 m.p.h. It is more likely
that the French were using the up-to-date
P-36A Curtiss pursuit ’planes, which are
engined with an 1100-h.p., 14-cylinder
radial Pratt and Whitney or P-75 As. No
details have been released of these
machines, but they are credited with level
flying speeds round 400 m.p.h. and with
a power dive at 589 m.p.h.
At any rate, the experience of the Ger-
mans seems to have been a repetition of
that of the Russians against the Japanese
in Mongolia recently. Eighteen Japs
dived on a mass of 150 Russians and got
49 of them against a loss of five of their
own, demonstrating the advantage of
small, free fighter forces against concen-
trated flying masses. The centres of big
formations are shielded by their own
outer flights and more or less immobil-
ised, and conditions are ideal for the
attackers. They can dive through the
larger enemy formations with targets on
both sides, while the foemen have their
own ’planes on either side to think of.
The fighting has not been confined to
the French and Germans. A flight of
German Heinkel bombers caught by Brit-
ish reconnaissance ’planes off the English
East Coast lost two machines, brought
down at point-blank range in a fierce
climb-and-dive fight.
There was an even more exciting nose-
to-tail combat over French territory be-
tween a 21-year-old Maorilander in a
single-seat fighter and a three-engined
Dornier —speed and manoeuvre against
weight of concentrated gunfire.
The Dornier was seen from a ’drome.
The Maorilander, from an unblooded
squadron, went into the air, rushed the
enemy from the rear, braving his tail
gun, held his own fire till he was a few
yards away, and put the Dormer’s port
engine out of commission with a single
burst. The Dornier rocketed towards the
stratosphere, pulling up at 27,000 feet,
which would be about its own ceiling ;
the British fighter, following, would have
another 5000 feet. Then the German
reopened fire with tracer bullets. The
R.A.F. man closed in to 250 yards, let
go with all he had, and continued to
within 50 yards of the Dornier, almost
ramming it. His superior speed and
climbing power at that altitude took him
above the Dornier, which was quickly
forced down to 24,000 feet. There the
end came. The German machine went
into a lurching fall five miles down into
a village street.
Little has been said about the speed
and power-diving capacity of the more
modern British ’planes, though Hurri-
canes and Spitfires must be able to dive
at up to 600 miles an hour. Hurricanes
a year ago flew from Edinburgh to
the south of England, about 400 miles,
at an average speed of 428 miles an hour
with a following wind. Which means
that at some points they must have come
close to 500 m.p.h. on the level, without
the benefit of gravity.
U.S. Fighting 'Planes.
“8-48”: The United States was among
the first countries to add aeroplanes to
their fighting forces —the first, a Wright
pusher biplane with a four-cylinder,
water-cooled Wright engine, was bought
on August 2, 1909. Curiously, the major-
ity of the small group which gave the
movement motive power—Alexander'
Graham Bell, inventor of the telephone;
Baldwin, the Canadian pioneer; and
J. A. D. McCurdy—were British subjects.
Bell and Baldwin came to Australia the
following year to try to buy the Har-
graves models.
In 1916, the U.S. Army had 55
machines, all converted civilians and
mostly out of date, with 65 officers to
fly them. The early engines were failures,
and when this was realised it was decided
to build the British DH4, Bristol Fighters
and Handley Page bombers in U.S.A.
None of them, nor any Yankee-made
’plane, reached the firing line. With an
air service of 11,000 officers and 120,000
men at the end of the last war, Uncle
Sam had only 757 pilots and 481
observers, with 740 aeroplanes at the
front. Every ’plane used was British or
French.
In this war the position is to be re-
versed, and Uncle Sam will be supplying
the Allies with machines. Since 1918
much fuss has been made of new Ameri-
can developments—in most cases long
after British, French and German pilots
have tested them. Whether U.S.A.
machines are so far advanced as “Slime
Marches On” and various other patriotic
agencies would have the world believe
remains to be seen. At all events, it is
a pity that under the Canadian training
scheme some means has not been found
of building British machines in Canada
and Australia.
Casualty lists continue to tell the proud
part which Australians and Maorilanders
are playing in the war in the air. Recent
additions to the roll included Pilot
Officer W. E. Lockley, Collaroy (N.S.W.),
and A. G. Whitehead, Hastings (M.L.).
Altogether, there have so far been 15
Maorilanders in the R.A.F. honor rolls.
* * * *
“Aileron”: lan Junner, of Brisbane,
offspring of an old seafaring family and
the second man to exceed 100 m.p.h. on
a motor-bike in Queensland, has set a
new record for flying novices by taking
his “A” license in nine days—hours’
dual and 3>\ hours’ solo. Usually the
job occupies anything up to a couple of
months —sometimes more.
# * * *
“Auld Snootie’s Pilot”: Herren Kadetz
and Kroath, who were discovered weed-
ing lettuces near Sydney, having re-
signed their commissions in the Austrian
Air Force and left the country because
they objected to the German invasion,
have been giving the dailies plenty of
copy. One declares that he has flown
the Messerschmitt
fighters, and says
they are ex-
tremely manoeu-
vrable at round
330 m.p.h. In
effect, Goring’s
show allowed a
disaffected Aus-
trian to fly a
machine so much
on the secret list
that its record
does not appear
in the world’s
st a n d a r d air
annuals. Its in-
telligence service
must be rotten.
And the new-
comer had never
seen cannon on
German aircraft;
moreover, ammu-
nition of all
aerial guns in
Germany was the
same as rifle
ammunition — Let.,
in the 7mm. or
.303 range. The two-engined Messer-
schmitt 110 is now known to carry
a 23mm. —nearly lin. —shell-firing gun,
and if Germany has armed her heavy
bombers with nothing better than
rifle-calibre machine-guns she must be
most hopelessly out of date. It is a
decade since Britain put lin. guns on
to her first flying battleships of the
Perth class, and the schedules of Vickers
aerial guns published in such well-known
annuals as Brassey have told the Ger-
mans openly for years that 37 and 40
millimetre —1.575 in firing 100 two-
pounder shells a minute were being manu-
factured for aircraft mounting in Britain.
* * * *
“QNI”: War has meant the return of
many veterans to capital-city air routes.
One of the five original DHB6’s, the Syd-
ney, has been leased by Qantas to Air-
lines of Australia to help maintain the
Sydney-Brisbane service. The five old
eagles began their career in February,
1935, and when they were "taken off the
Singapore route in July last year to make
way for flying-boats had done 2,800,000
miles without mishap. To-day DHB6’s
have over 3,000,000 miles to their credit
under the aegis of Qantas, and some of
them have flown more than 700,000 miles
each.
* * * *
“R.E.B”: It’s “Aldis” (B. 8/11 /’39)
who has lost control. Pilots in France
in 1918 were trained in W/T trans-
mitting, and had to carry out the artillery
“shoots” as well as driving the ’plane.
It was the best arrangement. The pilot
flew a figure eight between battery and
target, and knew exactly when to make
turns to correspond with his signals so
as to get an uninterrupted view of both
gun-flash and shell-burst. The observer
did, however, have one important job—
winding in the aerial which trailed out
behind with a lead weight on the end. I
remember the irate remarks of a battery
commander on my five-minute display
over his battery on the way home —the
“O.” had forgotten his job!
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: Sneaking into Pt. Cook
(Vic.) aerial school grounds, which were
surrounded by armed sentries and full of
sleeping officers and hefty trainees, “visi-
tors” the other night piled mailbags round
the safe of the camp post-office, let off a
bit of gelignite and made off with £6l,
leaving the building on fire. Courage
and resource like that are worthy of a
better cause.
* * * *
“Zedo”: One of the world’s oldest
aerial photographers, W. H. Hansom,
nephew of the inventor of the hansom
cab, has passed over in Melbourne at
77. He was an expert on aerial survey
work and had held many a commission
from the Commonwealth Government.
* * * *
A Russian gentleman, Comrade Y. M.
Solodovnik, has broken the world’s para-
chute-jumping record by landing safely
after a leap from six miles up. It took
him 22 minutes to come down.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Rose Bay flying-boat hangar
has been completed at last. It has ser-
vicing workshops, offices, space for two
flying-boats and an instrument room with
equipment for overhauling the finest
gadgets in a flying-boat’s interior.
* * * *
“E.V.”: A Sydney flying pupil set out
from Mascot the other day for Camden
Park, 25 miles to the south-west. He
was next seen almost 25 miles due north
at Richmond. There he was put on the
right compass course for Camden, but
turned north again and landed 100 miles
or more beyond Newcastle at Raymond
Terrace, having flown blind without in-
struments through thick rain and fog
over one of the worst bits of flying
country in N.S.W. Easy to laugh at it—
almost as easy as it is for a novice in the
air to do it. But it takes a flier to appre-
ciate the grit and coolness of the young-
ster, who came out of the adventure with
himself and his machine unscathed.
“Scotty”: Will “Omadhaun” (B.
25/10/’39) please say what kind of water
the rocks roll into in Lochaber? Is it
fresh, salt, hot or cold or —like Loch-
nagar—neither?
Let “Scotty” come southward into the
Stewartry of Kirkcudbright, which even the
Romans couldn’t conquer, and where Maxwell-
town braes are bonny, and he will find a real
Lochaber with rocks rolling into it and water
that is deep and cold and slightly flavored
with usquebaugh, the emanation of visiting
northerners who fell into it when Alpin King
of the Scots poked his nose into Strathclyde
and was murthered for his trouble. In the
land of the Baliols, Bruces and Douglases, the
county where they forged Mons Meg, they
would say “Foosh!” to “Scotty” if he asked
such a silly question.


Tff 7
THE PERFECT
XMAS GIFT
Start paying 5/- week now
Take Delivery for Xmas
Pay balance in 1940
ENGLISH PORTABLE Typewriters
are still available from
£l2 12-
WHY PAY MORE TO BUY A FOREIGN TYPEWRITER?
Telephone or write your nearest BRITISH TYPEWRITER DISTRIBUTOR
L. Dobell & Co. Pty., Ltd., 47 Creek Street, BRISBANE; Jackson & O’Sullivan, Queen Street, BRISBANE.
Dobell Pty., Ltd., 107 Pitt Street, SYDNEY ; Roneo Co., Ltd., 21 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. Johnson and
Hey, 37 Hunter Street, NEWCASTLE. Geo. Raitt &. Co., Ltd., 467 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
John Withers & Sons, 210 Queen Street, MELBOURNE. Holdsworth & Co., Ltd., 51 Grenfell Street.
ADELAIDE. Burridge & Warren, Ltd, 69 King Street, PERTH. J. Walch & Son, Ltd., 130 Macquarie
Street, HOBART; J. C. McPhee Pty., Ltd., 99 Collins Street, HOBART.
TO-DAY—Buy the Typewriter made in England.
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
No Beer or Bread at Darwin
“D.”: Another strike —railway em-
ployees this time —caught Darwin when
a ship carrying 5400 tons of groceries,
flour, general merchandise, building
materials, tobacco and beer had just
arrived in port. Within a few days the
town had run out of milk, flour, fruit,
baby foods, southern vegetables, sugar,
rice, cheese, bacon, tea, tinned fruit,
petrol, tobacco and, of course, beer.
The Territory’s Industrial Board of
Reference formed after the successful
strike of builders’ employees for £5 10s.
per week —had recommended that the
basic rate for railwaymen be increased
from £4 13s. 9d. to £5 3s. 9d. The men
struck for £5 10s. As Darwin’s jetty
is a right-angled affair strewn with rails,
goods can be taken off only by railway
truck, so when the men downed tools
the wharf laborers had to knock off as
soon as congestion of trucks prevented
further unloading.
When the strike started military guards
were doubled at the jetty and railway
sheds. Later, 100 members of the Mobile
Force collected military supplies from the
wharf and delivered them under the pro-
tection of armed guards.
Shipping agents offered to pay the ex-
tra 16s. 3d. asked for, but Common-
wealth Railways Commissioner Gahan
and Minister Foil declined the offer.
Then the secretary of the N.A.W.U., after
flying to Melbourne to talk with Mr.
Foil and Mr. Gahan, agreed to tell the
men to return to work while their case
was submitted to the Arbitration Court
in Sydney. Return to work they did.
There was no bread that day, but beer
deliveries were resumed in time for the
town to slake its thirst by nightfall.
A basic wage of £4 13s. 9d. is very
low for Darwin—the Brisbane award is
£4 4s. and the extra 9s. 9d. would hardly
make up the difference between rents in
Brisbane and in Darwin. But the Arbi-
tration Court will now decide the matter.
“Lid”: The latest strike in Darwin
revealed that the town has to rely on
southern States for, among other things,
milk, fruit, vegetables, cheese and bacon.
Stations a few miles from Darwin pro-
vide themselves with all the milk, fruit
and vegetables they can use. Why Dar-
win can’t do the same is beyond me.
Market-gardeners and dairymen should
do well there.
• • • • • *
“Dip”: At the end of the strike
of Darwin railwaymen Administrator
Abbott revealed that he had established
a secret food reserve. In 1918 “an accu-
mulation of grievances, real and fancied,
led to a turbulent gathering outside Gov-
ernment House at Darwin which forced
the Administrator and the Judge to quit
the country hurriedly.” Maybe Mr.
Abbott was contemplating a long siege
or a gallant stand on the Darwin front
or something.
* * * *
“Rankine”: I don’t hold with these
plans for gathering up northern Binghis
and enrolling them in a battalion as
Bob’s Own or something. Binghi would
be like all Dravidians, including some of
those who were Cornwallis’s allies in the
Indian wars against Tippoo. That lot of
lads asked to be excused from the largest
battle fought in the most important cam-
paign because an aide-de-camp had been
caught with somebody else’s wife and the
army must needs retire to the river Tapti
to purify. Binghi has the same habits.
He would be likely to fall out on the way
to Berlin and go on walkabout. What
would be worth while, however, would
be the gathering together of a small unit
of half-caste and black snipers and horse-
breakers from the North. And as a bat-
talion runner Jacky would have them all
licked.
* * * *
“Lam”: N.T. scored some records in
vital statistics last year. It had the high-
est marriage rate —11.7 per 1000, against
6.74 per 1000 in Canberra —and the high-
est percentage of twins, and its female
birthrate dwarfed that of every other
part of the Commonwealth —the propor-
tion was 26 girls to 14 boys. On the
other hand, it had the largest proportion
of deaths of children under one year:
the rate per 1000 was 83.33 for girls,
37.04 for boys. In Victoria the combined
rate was 34.21. The crude general death-
rate of the N.T. is 12 per 1000, against
9.638 for the rest of Australia.
* * * #
“Creswell”: Commonwealth Estimates
show that five typists in the “accounts,
correspondence and records” branch of
“A good fit me eye! They're too short in the legs, I tell y'!”
the Administration offices at Darwin
share £1472 p.a.; a couple more in the
Law Department whack up £614 p.a.,
and another in the Mines Department
gets £283 p.a. The Administration re-
cently spent nearly £lO,OOO to provide
furnished quarters for 10 young ladies
on its staff at a nominal rent of 4s. lOd.
each, and provided a couple of half-caste
maids to look after the place. Southern
typists get £2 10s. to £3 a week, so
their sisters in Darwin enjoy a cool
£2 10s. to £3 a week extra. Basic-
wage earners in Darwin must wince when
they realise that their cut is only 9s. 9d.
above Brisbane rates and that, when last
heard of, a workers’-homes scheme for
the N.T. was “still under consideration.”
* * * *
“Clayfield”: The Queensland Govern-
ment doesn’t quite know what to do with
the Brisbane City Council. Its first idea
was that a city manager should be ap-
pointed. A second plan is to turn the
incompetent show into something like a
provincial Assembly, with a Lord Mayor
elected by the aldermen, a chairman for
council meetings, executive aldermen as
Ministers in a small way, departmental
managers with the powers of under-
secretaries, and no town clerk. It’s a
sign of the times. If two or three more
bodies like this were created for the rest
of Queensland there would be no need
for the State Parliament, and all national
functions could be transferred to the
Commonwealth.
* * * *
“D.T.”: Queensland’s State Service
Union is gravely perturbed because public
servants are violating the five-day week
by doing unauthorised work in their
offices on Saturday mornings. Accord-
ing to the official journal, only two
explanations are possible—either the
offending officers are inefficient and
require more than the statutory time to
perform their ordinary duties, or
there is need for additional staff. “For-
tunately,” it concludes, “our metropoli-
tan members are ceasing the practice, but
many country members continue it.” The
existence of a war in which even Reggy
Redtape and Freddy Files are liable to
be called up as citizen soldiers seems to
have been overlooked. Reggy and Freddy
may yet be putting in their Saturday
mornings at drill under rude sergeant-
majors who’ve never heard of overtime.
* * * *
“Q.C.R.”: T. G. Pengelly was carried
off at 86 the other day by the dreadful
northern climate —about the last survival
of the days when there were no railways
in the North and the few sparse ports
were .served by small iron steamers. Pen-
gelly went to Cooktown in ’73 in the
Annie, a 40-tonner, the second steam-
ship to enter the Endeavour port. Then
he joined the old A.S.N. Co.’s Bunyip,
also 40 tons, and made the voyage to
Sydney via Cairns, now a city of 13,000
people, where there was then not even a
hut. He worked for James Burns when the
latter introduced a young man named
Bob Philp to the staff. The old Cornish-
man’s adventures would have filled a
couple of books. He retired from the
sea about 15 years ago, but until he was
nearly 80 was watchman on the A.U.S.N.
jetty wharf at Townsville.
* * * *
“Hardaport”: “Nor’-west” talks of the
tide-rips of Escape Passage, at one
entrance to King Sound (B. 4/10/’39).
But has he ever tried an entrance at the
opposite northern mouth of the
Sound? Unmarked on the map but
known to pearlers and others as Whirl-
pool Pass, it makes the other passage
look like a millstream. Four miles long,
half a mile wide, shaped like a boomer-
ang, it divides Hidden Island (another
pearlers’ name) from the mainland. And
how the 35ft. tide races through! Be-
cause of the congestion it banks up sft.
higher than out on the big Sound —swirl-
ing whirlpools, great holes momentarily
left in the water just as though someone
had opened an enormous bath plug and
the sea was going gurgling down. Then
the great swirl of the tide-rip comes
rushing along, catching up the lugger just
as if it were half a walnut shell. Then
whirlpools again, forty, fifty feet across
in their first formation. Deep water ex-
plains the tremendous suction, 20 fathoms
the shallowest sounding. Safe enough to
competent sailors, who take whatever risk
there is for the short cut to Yampi Sound.
The scenery is unforgettable. Both sides
are flanked by highly mineralised hills,
really eroded cliffs 300 ft. to 400 ft. high.
Vegetation is in patches. Brilliant rock
coloring, especially when the westein sun
flashes on a million crystalline facets.
It is one of Australia’s future show-places.
“Zedo”: There is a strong move in
Queensland to combat the reported in-
tention of the Defence Department to
transfer Sixth Division men from Red-
bank Camp to the southern States for
training. Why the change is necessary
in the early stages it is difficult to under-
stand, more especially as some thousands
of pounds have been spent in fitting the
camp up. The pay bill is £5250 a week,
too.
* * * *
“A.D.T.”: Horse wizards, eh? At
Austral Downs, Barkly Tableland (Q.),
the team was loaded with a 27ft. mill
to take out to a bore for erection. There
were a dozen or so horses yoked. The
regular driver could get no action-
cracks, curses and other stimulants merely
evoked jerks and shuffling feet. Four-
tons-odd for a dozen horses wasn’t out
of the way, though the roads were heavy.
When the game was to a bubble, Billy
Boggs strolled over. Billy had been on
the station only a couple of days; he
hadn’t handled those horses previously.
He commenced by locking both back
wheels of the wagon, thereby approxi-
mately doubling the load. He took the
whip in his hand, straightened up the
team, coughed once and every horse
leaned eagerly into the collar. They went
away as one horse, with the locked
wheels skidding and throwing sparks
from the flint boulders that crunched be-
neath them.
* * * *
“Mataranka”: An old black gin must
be wondering about the curious changes
which civilisation has wrought in the
North. She was climbing a tree looking
for a “sugarbag” on Groote Eylandt
when she fell and broke both legs. The
tribe bundled her into a canoe and landed
her five miles from the mission. The
mission staff cut a track through the bush
and put her on a motor-lorry. Radio
brought Dr. Fenton from Darwin with
his ’plane. When they tried to put the
lady into the ’plane she resisted like a
centre-forward on Ilkley Moor, and
screamed like a banshee, but she ended
up as a convalescent in Darwin hospital
all the same. In the old days her buck
would probably have administered a per-
manent anaesthetic with a waddy or else
have placed her under a shady bush,
there to end a life of pain overnight by
sheer willpower. No doubt the tribe are
now shaking heads about all the fuss.
Life means nothing to a myall.
“Philp”: A Darwin copper has de-
cided that the half-caste problem is too
much for him. Sent to find out why
Mary Mary’s latest piccaninny was
creamy-white instead of dusky black, he
cross-questioned the young lady at the
door of her humpy. “What name father
longa piccaninny, Mary?” Mary Mary
rolled her eyes and indicated her all-
black husband. “Jackie, boss; Jackie,
’im father,” she said. “Come on now,
Mary,” said the copper. “Piccaninny
’im creamy fella; Jackie ’im black
man. What name father?” Mary Mary
mustered all of her black dignity. “My
word, boss,” she said, “Jackie ’im black-
pfeller all right, but ’im clever alia
same.”
* * * *
“Stultus”: For excellence of vision I
nominate the youthful N.Q. Binghi.
Recently I saw one missionary youngster
reading aloud from his Bible at 10 p.m.
without aid of any artificial light. I’ve
seen Torres Strait island boys spearing
fish out on the reefs with no other light
than the moon, and the same natives can
pick out reefs at night-time by the varia-
tions in the tint of the water, which are
barely discernible to a white man in day-
light.


"S
Information obtainable from all offices of
DALGETY AND COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
Agents for South African Railways throughout Australia and New Zealand
SA-539
Zslie 'Ini tt zin a
Co n tr as ti of
SOUTH
AFRICA
Acclaimed as “the most interesting country in
the world", South Africa stirs the imagination
of every tourist. The vast game reserve of
Kruger National Park, the primitive villages
of Zululand, Victoria Falls, the Kimberley
diamond mines, the great gold mines at
Johannesburg, the modern cities; these are
but few of the colourful contrasts of absorb-
ing interest.
And, when you want to relax, there are
charming resorts and sport aplenty. Only
ten days from Fremantle by the luxury liner
"Dominion Monarch" or slightly longer by
vessels of the Blue Funnel Shaw Savill
Joint Service. South Africa, with its delight-
ful climate, offers the incomparable vacation.
-
:
■ ■
1
■
i
I!
■n
m
1
WmmM
m
m
SOLTINE CLOTH is made only from Pure
Australian Wool.
SOLTINE CLOTH keeps the wearer cool through-
out the Summer.
SOLTINE CLOTH, having more “twist” in its
fine worsted yarn than other cloths, will not
crease or crush.
SOLTINE
«E6D.
CLOTH
at fcficjJi
BORN
SHORN
WOVEN AND WORN IN AUSTRALIA.
OBTAINABLE IN ALL LEADING
STORES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Answers to Correspondents
No notice (except of a hostile character) will
be taken of communications insufficiently
stamped. Name and address must appear on
the MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and no MS.
will be returned unless stamps accompany.
K.MacL.: Those “Silent Ones” must re-
main voiceless 5.H.8.: Very nearly
C.J.R.: Closer than you’ve been for some time.
E.B.: Not up D.G.: Nor was yours,
but keep at it G. 8.: Lightweight
G.L.K.: It’s got feeling, but it would need
better handling A.E.Y.: Not that one
E. 0.5.: You’re knocking at the d00r... .T.M.:
Blew out “Brains” M.S.: “Came Spring.”
Went poem J. 8.: Two words of it then, be-
cause we don’t want to be unpatriotic—
“ Courage, Britannia!” John H.: “Have
these verses any definite merit?” They’re not
pretty-pretty. Condense, and cut out the
archaisms N.P.C.: “It was a woman’s
social party.” A good time seems to have been
had by all, unless any of them had an ear for
rhyme M.H.W.: Try her on a woman’s
paper L. 8.: Close A.E.8.: Couldn’t
face “Nancy’s Christmas Cake”... .P.D.F.:
... .G.P.: “Life” is deadly... .M.M.: Far too
thin W.H.R.: You can’t rhyme “tunic” and
“unique” M.L.8.: Featherweights P.K.:
“Give me a musket and I’ll away!” To Water-
loo?... .G.8.D.: Blow!... .T.N.S.: Spoiled
by the sticky finish 8.A.: “Out in the Cold”
still there L.P.8.: Only “A Whisper”
J.8.P.: Handsome young bachelor adopts poor
bedraggled orphan who eventually cures hirft
of his wayward habits. Out! M.D.: “Not
So Fast” not so g00d... .L.N.R.: They all
start well, but they all wither at the finish
C.S.: Sketchiest of sketches P.C.W.: A
thought there, but that’s all C.NJ.: Did
you really mean to call it “The Milkmaid’s
F011y”?....H.D.M.: It’s “A Fell Deed” all
right H.L.D.: Can’t promise what might
happen if you deliver one personally T.A.T.:
Chaucer used that “new theme” P.T.: Your
“entry for The Bulletin Stakes” fell at the
barrier K.J.: “Mr. Cassar” came, saw and
went T.L.D.: Its only merit is its brevity.
C.B.C.: Your idea of the goldfields would
start a goldrush at any time H.8.W.: It’s
not worth arguing about T.K.: A keen
sketch, but off our beat C.J.L.: Both your
imagination and your vocabulary seem to have
bolted... .8.N.M.: Mark Twain beat you to
it... .G.W.H.: “The Fountain of Youth” needs
more kick... .M.C., H.8.F., C.L.Y., M.K.S.,
S.J. and 8.L.T.: Not for us.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.M.: That walking skeleton is hoofing his
way back home... .F.T.: Cup drawing arrived
after the race was run 8.L.: Well com-
posed and decorative, but hardly funny
E.J.W.: Bruce Bairnsfather thought of it first.
A.M.L.: Has its good points, but they are
outnumbered by the bad ones V.R.: That
freakish style won’t carry you far W.H.H.:
Try to cultivate a less antiquated sense of
humor... .H.P.H.: Improving, but you still
have a long way to go E.N.S.: Jacky looks
as if he had just walked out of an African
kraal S.A.: Fisherman who mistook a sub-
marine for a whale has passed our way before.
S.E.: We left your bathing beauty to the
mercy of the shark K.J.: It ended among
the also-rans... .H.S.: Not enough humor....
N. 8.: Barmaid seems part of the furniture
8.M.: Thinking of offering a prize for a solu-
tion of the meaning of that cartoon C.D.:
The office sentry stopped that atrocity at the
door S.F.: Washwork is too muddy and
streaky A.P.L.: What the pelican said to
the penguin wouldn’t bear reprinting W. 8.:
Ten were received and 10 went back... .A.A.:
It’s no use attempting that class of work with
a mapping-pen.
Mine is no song of love—
No prattling eulogy.
I hate
I loathe
A passionate and
Exquisite
Hatred.
This is
Merely bad
Prose.
Tribute to Australia.
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
ON a London winter evening over
30 years ago the writer was walk-
ing homeward from Fleet-street
to Westminster, by way of the
Strand, when it was his good fortune to
be paid a compliment as an Australian
that has never been forgotten.
It was dark and cloudy, and snow
was falling softly and lightly, so that the
roofs and cornices of the sombre build-
ings along the famous thoroughfare were
picked out in pure white, whilst the road-
way was a greasy bog of brown and im-
pure slush. Close to the Savoy writer ran
into a detective-inspector he knew from
Scotland Yard, who was also strolling
westward on his lawful occasions in the
pursuit of the unlawful.
“Hullo! ” he said. “Glad to see you.
You look cold, and so am I. Come along
into the Coal Hole, and we’ll have some-
thing hot.”
This seemed a seasonable and accept-
able suggestion, so we turned round and
walked towards the door of an ornate
bar which was somewhere about the site
of the dingy dive known to Dickens and
Thackeray, but about as like it as West-
minster Abbey is like Sydney G.P.O. Near
the entrance we encountered a smart-look-
ing little man whom the inspector greeted
with respectful joy and much enthusiasm.
“M’sieu’ Lepine! ” he exclaimed. “This
is indeed a pleasure. This is Mr. Abbott.
Abbott, this is M’sieu’ Lepine, head ot
the Bureau de Surete in Paris. We’re
going to drink something hot, with lemon
in it, M’sieu’ —won’t you join us? Come
on in here.”
M. Lepine bowed, and I bowed less
gracefully, and we went in and drank
cheering hot whiskies at a small table in
a bright and rather flamboyant marble
saloon, where many other winter-afflicted
and overcoated wayfarers from the
gloomy Strand were doing likewise. And
we did it a couple of times again during
the course of an hour or so of agreeable
conversation. A very famous personage
was this small French policeman, bright-
eyed and humorous, who spoke better
English than we did and was cleverly
reminiscent and entertaining.
Presently the inspector mentioned that
I was an Australian, and immediately I
became aware that a sudden access of
interest in me possessed the celebrated
Frenchman. He reached across the table
and shook my hand heartily. It was at
once evident that he regarded Australians
with some respect, and in a minute or
two he explained why.
“Ah,” he remarked in his easy Eng-
lish, “I know the Australians. They are
incomparable. The very best. I admire
them beyond measure. They are the
most skilful, the most distinguished of
what you term confidence men whom
we have in Paris. They are marvellous ! I
am more than delighted to meet you, sir.”
It was indeed a compliment, even though
some might foolishly regard it as a back-
handed one. For to have it credited to me
as being worthy of respect because I be-
longed to a race so intelligent, resourceful
and quick-witted as to be capable of pro-
ducing the very best confidence men prac-
tising their profession in Paris, and that
by a connoisseur, was no small or trivial
thing. His say-so was not to be questioned.
It made me feel proud of being an Aus-
tralian. And nobody on earth was a better
judge of the quality of confidence men,
the inspector assured me later, than M.
Lepine, of the Bureau de Surete.


Corns Sentenced to Death.
Corns have worried you —now worry them;
although “worry” is hardly the word, for A’CORN
SILK does not trifle with corns, 'but ruthlessly kills
them. How comfortable your feet feel after A’COliN
SILK has removed all your soft or hard corns—
a 6d. packet will do this for you without pain or
inconvenience. Corns are killed while you sleep—
a matter of a few hours. Chemists sell A’CORN
SILK at 6(1. per packet. Packed by FELTON,
GKIMWADE & DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman); W. H. Hart, Esq.; M. J. Ryan, Esq.;
F. E. Loxton, Esq. ; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General ManaOer —D. S. FORBES. . .
With offices at London, Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 145 Branches and Receiving
Offices in Queensland and Northern Rivers, New South \Yales, also representation
through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,, tms
Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
Our Service Department
Wants.
Young lady, Sydney, typist, own machine,
seeks work.—5305.
Black-and-white artist, Sydney, seeks work,
advertisements, showcards, etc. —5269.
Gentleman, Sydney, journalistic, publicity,
organising and theatrical exp., seeks position.—
5285.
Trained infant teacher, Q’land Education
Dept., seeks position as governess on station
or wheat-farm next year. Refs.—5296.
To buy copy of Zora Cross’s An Introduc-
tion to the Study of Australian Literature.
—5271.
Words of “The Village Schoolmaster.’’—5277.
To buy Tommy Cornstalk, by J. H. M.
Abbott.—5276.
To buy cinema Kodak, 16 m/m. —5251.
To buy Our Flat, The Cruise of the Mock
Turtle or any other novels by R. Andorii. —
5303. !
Information Sought.
(1) When did the first printed or written
references to the word “coo-ee” appear? (2)
Origin of the word? —5274.
(1) It was first referred to in print by
Governor Hunter in his Journal (1793), though
he spelt it “cow-ee.” Hunter stated that it
meafnt “to come.” It also appears in the
diafy of Francis Barrallier, an ensign in the
New South Wales Corps, who in 1802 made
an unsuccessful attempt to cross the Blue
Mountains. Cunningham in his New South
Wales (1827) said that the word was then in
general use by the white population of the
, colony. (2) From the aboriginals, who uttered
it to attract attention. It was quickly adopted
by the early settlers.
. * * * *
(1) In what year and where did Samuel Pepys
die? (2) What is the best edition of his diary?
(3) By whom was the diary deciphered, and
when was it first published? (4) In whose
custody was it kept between Pepys’s death and
publication, and where is it now ? (5) What
was the nature of the secret script Pepys used ?
-5222.
(1) He died at Clapham, London, on May
25, 1703. (2) The standard edition of the
diary is that edited by H. B. Wheatley, in
nine volumes, published in London from 1893
to 1899. (3) The MS. was deciphered by
John Smith between 1819 and 1822, and the
first and partial edition, edited by Richard
Neville Griffen, appeared in 1825 in two
volumes. (4) Magdalene College, Cambridge,
where it is preserved. (5) He wrote it in
Shelton’s system of tachygraphy, published in
1641, which he complicated by using foreign
languages or by a code of his own invention
whenever he had to record passages he wished
to screen from the vulgar gaze.
* * * *
(1) Is Rev. William Ridley’s “Kamilaroi and
Other Australian Languages” regarded as re-
liable by authorities? (2) Biographical details
of the author ? —5220.
(1) Yes. (2) Born at Hartford End in Sussex,
1819; educated at King’s College, London.
Studied law for a while but became interested
in missionary work. In 1849 he met Dr. Lang
in London and accompanied him to N.S.W.,
where Ridley became a Presbyterian minister.
He travelled among the aboriginal tribes of
the region between Liverpool Plains (N.S.W.)
and the Darling Downs and made a close study
of their languages. He was at one time editor
of the “Evening News,” Sydney. He died in
1878.
* * * *
l intend making a comprehensive collection
of books of Australian poetry. 1 am told that
many important works which are out of print
are very hard to procure. Can you indicate
such rarities ? —5178.
While many that are out of print may be
obtained fairly easily through the second-hand
booksellers at reasonable prices, there are a
number, deserving inclusion in a “compre-
hensive” collection, which are very scarce and
difficult to procure. Among such volumes
are Brennan’s Poems, David Burn’s Plays and
Fugitive Pieces in Verse, Barron Field’s First
Fruits of Australian Poetry, Ada Cambridge’s
Unspoken Thoughts, Harpur’s The Bushrangers
and Thoughts, Edward Reeve’s Raymond Lord
of Milan, C. Tompson’s Wild Notes from the
Lyre of a Native Minstrel, Wentworth’s Aus-
tralasia, Dr. Lang’s Aurora Australis, Kendall’s
Poems and Songs, Farrell’s Ephemera,
Gordon’s The Feud, some volumes issued in
editions of 100 or less such as Brereton’s
Oithona and O’Dowd’s Downward (first,
edition), some of the volumes by William
Blocksidge, and some recent volumes issued in
limited editions in an expensive form.
* * * *
Biographical details concerning the Australian
poets Kenneth Slessor and Robert D. Fitz-.
Gerald ? —4994.
Kenneth Slessor was born at Orange
(N.S.W.) in 1901, and was educated at Sydney
C. of E. Grammar School. He was a reporter
on the Sydney “Sun,” 1920-24; chief sub-editor
Melbourne “Punch,” 1924-25; special writer
Melbourne “Herald,” 1926; special writer
Sydney “Sun,” 1926-27; and joined the staff
of “Smith’s Weekly” in 1927. He edited
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
Wanted to Sell or ‘To Let” notices are not admissible.
Smith’s Weekly” for a period until recently.
Publications include Thief of the Moon (1924),
L a /th Visitors (1926), Darlinghurst Nights
(1931), Trio (1931), Cuckooz Contrey (1932)
and Five Bells (1939). Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald was born at Hunter’s Hill (N.S.W.) in
1902, and was educated at the Sydney Grammar
School. He studied science at Sydney Uni.,
but left after two years without completing the
course, qualified as a surveyor in 1925, and
practised his profession for a few years in
Sydney, then went to Fiji as a native lands
surveyor. On completion-of Fiji native lands
surveys in 1936 he returned to Sydney, and
has since been engaged in surveys. At present
he is an employee of Ryde (N.S.W.) Muni-
cipal Council. Publications include The Greater
Apollo (1927), To Meet the Sun (1929) and
Moonlight Acre (1939).
* * * *
The order in which to serve wines with the
various courses of a dinner, and temperature
at which the wines should be served? —5257.
It varies according to taste, but the follow-
ing is the generally accepted order: Hors
d’oeuvres, dry sherry (50deg.); oysters, hock
(45deg.); soup, sherry (50deg.); fish, hock
(45deg.), chablis (45deg.), sauternes (40deg.);
entree, claret at room temperature if there is
red meat, hock or chablis at 45deg. if the
meat be white; poultry (red flesh), claret. or
burgundy at room temperature or sparkling
burgundy iced; poultry (white flesh), chablis
or hock at 45deg. or sparkling, hock iced;
joints, as for poultry according to dark or
white flesh; dessert, port wine at room tem-
perature ; coffee, brandy at room temperature.
* * * *
Is a man who deserts his wife and leaves
her without support entitled to the old-age
pension ? —5238.
In certain cases he might be—for a time
at least. He would have to show that “he has
not for 12 months or upwards during five
years immediately preceding” the date of appli-
cation, “without just cause deserted-his wife,
or without just cause failed to provide her with
adequate means of maintenance or neglected
to maintain any of his children under the age
of 14 years.”
* * r m
What is the Immelmann turn in aviation ?—•
—5272.
A manoeuvre named after the German
fighting-pilot who first devised it. Suppose one
machine at high speed meeting another from
an opposite direction. The control-stick is
pulled straight back and the rudder kicked
hard on. This movement is partly a loop;
at its close, the machine, after a banking turn,
comes into a dive and travels in the same
direction as the opposing machine; if the time
and the distance are rightly judged, it will be
close on the tail of its adversary. It was by
this manoeuvre that Immelmann accounted for
many opponents.
* * * *
Are private employment agencies in Sydney
subject to Government control?— s27B.
Private employment agencies are subject to
supervision by the State authorities in terms of
the Industrial Arbitration Act, Such agencies
may be conducted by licensed persons only,
and they are required to keep registers of
persons applying for labor or employment,
and of engagements made. The scale of fees
chargeable is fixed by regulation, and if an
applicant does not obtain labor or employment
within 14 days the fee must be repaid, less
out-of-pocket expenses. Licensees are prohibited
from sharing fees with employers, and from
keeping as lodgers persons seeking employment;
* * * *
How much tea and coffee does the average
person in N.S.W. consume in a year? From
what countries does N.S.W. obtain the bulk
of its tea and coffee ? —5226.
The average annual consumption of tea in
N.S.W. is about 71b. per head, and of coffee
about half a pound per head. The tea con-
sumed in N.S.W. is imported mainly from
Netherlands East Indies and Ceylon. During
the three years ended June 30, 1938, the
Netherlands East Indies supplied 62 p.c. of
the total importations; 29 p.c. was imported
from Ceylon, 4 p.c. from India, 3 p.c. from
China,, and 2 p.c. from Japan. About a third
of the supply of coffee is obtained from
Netherlands East Indies, but the proportion
from this country has- diminished in recent
years, and substantial quantities have been , im-
ported from British East Africa, India, Papua
and Central America.
*** ” • *
What is the rule covering the spelling of
words ending in “our” and “or.” - Am I Cor-
rect in saying that, although the. Americans
use “or,” it is correct English to use “our”?
—5231.
There is no rule, and no discoverable prin-
ciple governs the division between -our and. -or
words. As Fowler says in Modern English
Usage we have “favour” and “horror,”
‘ardour ’ and “pallor,” “odour” and “tremor,”
“saviour” and “governor.” It cannot be said,
therefore, that “our” is English and “or”
American. The. American disposition undoubt-
edly is to knock out the u; but there is a
pronounced English disposition the same way.
* * * *
Has it been proved that fish have fallen
from aloft during rain? If so, how do they
get into the air and why are they not injured
in falling ? —5234.
There is abundance of evidence that small
fresh-water fish have descended to earth during
heavy rain. Such fish have never been observed
to be. sucked up into the air in a water-
spout or by very heavy wind, but their presence
in the air seemingly • cannot be accounted for
on any other' assumption. 'They could not
live for any length of time in the air; obvi-
ously, therefore,, they must ; have been re-
moved by some agency, and it •is difficult, to
conceive any other than a, waterspout or a
very strong wind. In view of the fact that
these fish come down only during heavy rain,
they fall not on hard; ground, but into a layer
of water, which serves to break their fall.
Doubtless numbers are killed.
WQS C a lyP so in Greek mythology ?—-
Daughter; of Atlas (or .Oceanus or Nereus),
queen of the mythical island of Ogygia. When
Ulysses ‘was shipwrecked on her' shores Calypso
entertained the hero with, great hospitality, and
prevailed on him to remain- with - her seven
years. Ulysses was .then seized ,with a longing
to return to his wife and home; -Calypso’s
promise of eternal 'youth 'failed to induce him
to stay, and Hermes was sent by Zeus to bid
her release him. When he set sail, Calypso died
of grief.
* * * *
(1) Did the-Germans interned at Liverpool
and Trial' Bay during the Great War of
1914-18 run their own theatres at those places,
and what plays were produced ? (2) Did the
prisoners publish camp newspapers? If'so,
where could I see copies ?— 5294.
(1) There were theatres at both Liverpool
and Trial Bay, .equipped and maintained by
the prisoners. From the commencement of
the Liverpool camp in, 1916 to March, 1918,
no fewer than 100 plays were produced. They
included representative pieces by Schnitzler,
Gogol, Bernstein, Shaw, Sudermann, Pinero
and Ibsen, as well as specimens of German
classical drama and a number of light comedies
and farces, including “Charley’s Aunt.” (2)
Newspapers were regularly published at Liver-
pool: and Trial Bay. The Mitchell Library,
Sydney, possesses complete sets of the Liverpool
“Kamp Spiegel” and the Trial Bay “Welt urn
Montag.”
* * *
What was the Potato War ?— 5204.
The name given by the Prussians to the war
of the Bavarian Succession in 1778-79. The
Prussians and a Saxon contingent, commanded
by Frederick the Great and his brother Prince
Henry, were opposed to two Austrian armies
under Loudon and Lacy. The operations con-
sisted largely of manoeuvres in which each
aimed at stopping the other’s food supplies.
The war thus acquired the name of Kartoffel-
kreig (potato war). It lasted nine months. Its
cost to the participants was £4,300,000 and
20,000 men, .
* * * *
Figures showing number of steam- and
motor-ships owned by the different countries
of the world, also the amount owned by each
in gross tons? —5159.
Great Britain and Ireland, 6843 ships,
17,675,404 tons; British Dominions, 2218,
3,043,686; Denmark, 694, 1,129,556; France,
1246, 2,880,783; Germany, 3231, 4,231,657;
Greece, 638, 1,889,269; Holland, 1473,
2,852,012; Italy, 1156, 3,258,992; Japan, 2187,
5,006,712; Norway, 1963, 4,613,175; Spain,
793, 947,963; Sweden, 1239, 1,571,054; United
States (sea), 2338, 8,936,465 ; United States
(lakes, etc.), 519, 2,467,430; other countries,
3781, 6,365,993. Figures are as at June 30,
1938.
* * * *
What was the fate of the following vessels
engaged in the Australian trade * during the
Great War of 1914-18: (1) Berrima, (2)
- Matunga and (3) Otaki? —5188.
(1) Torpedoed on February 18, 1917, when
50 miles west of Portland Bill. Being seriously
damaged and sinking, she was taken in tow by
H.M. destroyer Forester and safely beached
in Portland Harbor, Devonshire. (2) Cap-
tured by the German raider Wolf when north
of Woodlark Island, south-eastern New Guinea,
on August 5, 1917. She was taken to north-
western New Guinea, pillaged and sunk. Pas-
sengers and crew, were taken prisoners to Ger-
many. (3) While bound from England to M.L.
she encountered, on March 10, 1917, in the
mid-Atlantic, the German raider Moewe, whom
she severely damaged after a gallant fight before
being sunk herself. Thirteen of her crew were
killed and wounded. The German casualties
were 15.
* * * *
What are the dimensions of a large surf-
board like those seen on Sydney beaches, from
what wood are they made and where obtain-
able 3—5229.
Surfboards are'made from 3in. American
. redwood, 9ft. long, by 2ft. wide. The board is
.tapered from lin. thick at the nose to 3in. at
3ft'. 6in. from the nose, and from lfin. at the
back to 3'in. at 2ft. 6in. from the back, leaving
a section in the middle 3ft. long, 3in. thick.
The dimensions and Yhickness of the board may
be adjusted according to the weight of the user.
They cost about £5 or £6. Secretary, Surf Life
Saving Association of Australia, Sports Club,
10 Hunter-street, Sydney, will give further par-
ticulars.
, * * * *
Why is Australia comparatively immune from
earthquakes ? —5216.
Earthquakes invariably occur along recog-
nised belts, unstable portions of the earth’s
crust known as seismic faults. Australia at
present does not come within the influence
of one of the greater of these faults, hence its
comparative freedom from earthquakes. At the
same time there are weak belts where small
disturbances occasionally occur —for instance,
along the Gulf coast, south of Adelaide.
* * * *
What does “sentenced until the rising of the
.Court” mean? —5210.
It is a sentence imposed by Courts of sum-
mary jurisdiction in causes where the offence
is trivial. The convicted person is sentenced
to imprisonment “until the rising of the Court,”
which means that he is to be detained in
custody until the Court adjourns for lunch or,
if the sentence is imposed in the afternoon,
till the end of the Court’s day.
Brief Answers.
E.C.R.: (i) So far as can be asper-tained,
the use .of aluminium for cooking utensiL is
not prohibited in any country in the world.
(2) An inquiry into the effects of aluminium
cooking utensils was made by the Ministry
of Health, England, in 1935. The Chief Medi-
cal Officer of the Ministry reported' that
“while aluminium salts' are undesirable as in-
gredients- of baking-powders, there is. no con-
vincing evidence that aluminium cooking.vessels
are harmful”..M.M.L.L.Write to the
Postal Department of the’. Government of
South Africa, giving the full name of the person
and ask if his address can be furnished. En-
close, postage for reply:. . .L.M.: In; the case
of money believed to be' dormant, ip -Chancery
(England) application for information,should be
made in writing 'to the Accountant General,
Royal Co,urts of Justice, London. The appli-
cation should quote the . correct. title of the
matter or suit and be! signed by. the applicant,
who should state the ground upon which he
claims to be beneficially interested in-the fund.
Application should ■be accompanied by a money
order for-2s. 6d. drawn in favor of-the Com-
missioner of Inland Revenue. In view of your
uncertainty as to where the person died you
would probably require- the services of an
inquiry agency in the U.S.A., and that would
be a costly matter W.H.V.: . Cannot under-
take to value pictures. Can trace only two of
the artists you mention. George Oyston was
a landscape painter', and exhibited in 1891.
J. Calcott, also a landscape painter, exhibited
1861-62:...L.WJ.: (1) Jr. A. Turner is.not
mentioned in William Moore’s Story of Aus-
tralian Art, but it is believed .he, was a Mel-
bourne artist. (2) Cannot give values of works
of art.- Get in.touch with, an art. .dealer....
F.S. : It is apparent .that' the feathers of the
birds are being eaten ■ by. one . another. This
trouble is usually due to some deficiency in the
ration or to too close confinement. Absence
of suitable . green feed is probably a main
factor, and if no . meatmeal or "salt is being
used this would accentuate the trouble. Meat-
meal should be added to the morning mash
at the rate of about 6 p.c. to 7 p.c., and salt in
the proportion of loz. to each 51b. of dry matter
used for the morning mash, but. if.the mash
is fed dry not more than loz. to 61b. should
be.used.. The only cure for the trouble is to
remove the. cause, and give the birds plenty
of range... .V.M.A.: Numerous firms have
occasion to supply the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment with goods, and it is suggested that
before you use the words “Suppliers to the
Commonwealth Government’: on your .stationery
you should communicate with ,the departments
to which you have supplied or are supplying
goods S.M.N.: The estimate of the national
income of Australia in 1937-38 at. £814,000,000
was compiled by Messrs. Colin; Clark, and Craw-
ford, and has since been revised by them.
Details are obtainable from Colin Clark,
Queensland Government Statistician, The
Bureau of Industry, Brisbane.../.A.D.D.:
There is no medical school at the Uni. of
W.A., and students who desire to take a
medical course usually complete • their first
year there and then proceed to one of the
other unis, in the Eastern States for the
remainder of their course J.G.D.: Funda-
mentals of Live-stock Judging and . Selection,
by Robert S. Curtis, 215., and Live-stock
Judging Handbook, by Julius E. Nordby and
W. Malcolm Beeson, 235. 6d. ~.. .H.K.W.:
Special Report on Diseases of the [Horse, pub-
lished by the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
95., The Perfect Hunter and Saddle Horse, by
J. Mcßryde, 225. 6d., Veterinary .Notes ,for
Horse Owners, by Capt. M. H.‘ Hayes, 325. 6d.,
How to Train a Racehorse, by William Mug-
gridge, 25 s. First-aid Hints, for. the Horse
Owner, by Major W. E. Lyon, 135., and The
Breed of the Racehorse, by Friedrich Becker,
50s M.S. : Not necessarily, though it would
be expedient' to do so. Mere entry by the
cattle on your unenclosed land would not be
a criminal offence, biit an action for trespass
would lie and compensation for damage done
by the cattle could be recovered .. . ."P.S.: There
is a popular impression to that effect, but the
Jury Act (1912, N.S.W.) does not contain any
such prohibition. Persons excluded from ser-
vice are’ lunatics j imbeciles or those suffering
from permanent deafness,.blindness or infirmity.
W.E.: You' would' be wise to serve the
mortgagor from time to time with- an account
of the interest due and overdue and accept a
nominal sum in part-payment, thus keeping
your claim alive. The Statute of .Limitations
fixes a term of 12 years from the last written
acknowledgment or • part-payment of the
principal or interest.. . .A.C.L.: It is quite
within' the rights 'of the Customs ' Department
to require a husband contemplating travel
abroad and seeking a passport to produce a
letter from his -wife satisfying it that he has
made proper provision for her maintenance
whilst he is abroad S.M.P.: If the young
man is not yet 21 his will would be invalid.
. ...W.8.H.: A license is not required.
Printers, ■ but not booksellers, are required to
be registered. You would, however, be sub-
ject to the general restriction of censorship of
books not deemed fit for public sale and
circulation... .D.L.S.: Yes, where the council
constructs or paves any footway it may recover
from the owner, for the time being, half the
cost of “so much of the work as is opposite
and adjacent to the land,” irrespective of
whether there is an “entrance or convenience
of any kind leading on to the land”... .G.E.:
Before a marriage could be celebrated the girl,
being under 21 would have to obtain the written
consent of her father. Marriages may be cele-
brated only by authorised ministers of religion
or Government District Registrars. You could
not be married at sea in any other circum-
stances. .. .R.U.: (1) To the Station Com-
mander, R.A.A.F. H.Q., Richmond, N.S.W.
(2) Richmond, N.S.W M.R.: Gravestone
memorials are classifiable under Tariff Item
262 (E), the rates of duty being, if of United
Kingdom origin, ad val. 50 p.c., less an ex-
change adjustment of 25 p.c. of the amount of
duty or 124 p.c. of the value for duty (which-
ever the less), plus primage duty of 5 p.c.;
otherwise, ad val. 65 p.c., plus primage duty
of 10 p.c E.J.D.: (1) The exportation of
merino rams and ewes was prohibited as from
November 11, 1929. (2) Information not avail-
able... .E.R.M.: The statistical records of the
Customs Department do not show the quantity
and value of kerosene hurricane lamps imported
into Australia... .W.V.0.: Depends upon what
use you intend to make of the engine
J.F.T.: Original not available... .W.H.T.:
Cannot say without inspection. Send a sample
of your work to the editor.


100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
mm
w- ■ / ..; ■ v
-—-
,-•.—>
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
Australian Wool in U.S.A.
“Murrawong”: Australia figured
prominently in the list of awards at the
Golden Gate (U.S.A.) International Ex-
position Wool Show.
The schedule, covering every well-
known breed of sheep, was divided into
three sections. First came displays from
eight foreign countries, the Australian
section won by Grazcos, Sydney, with
J. E. Tomlinson, Kelvington, Boomi,
N.S.W., second.
Breeds classes formed the second sec-
tion—2s different breeds were represented,
although four of these were merino
under the sub-headings of (1) American
or Delaine merino, (2) Australian, (3) S.
American, (4) American or Canadian
Rambouillet. Australian awards went to
J. E. Tomlinson (first, third, sixth,
seventh), W. J. Clarke, Baroona, Ryl-
stone, N.S.W. (second), E. Cavanagh,
Gininderra, A.C.T. (fourth), and F. B.
Fleming, Yumoo, Wee Waa, N.S.W.
(fifth).
Maoriland took second place for
Southdowns against Canadian and U.S.
competition. English and Scottish
breeders were heavy scorers in certain
breed classes, but M.L. scooped all
Romney awards.
Corriedales produced an interesting
tussle between N.S.W. and American
breeders. M. Carroll and Sons, Red-
bank, Molong, took first and second
prizes and T. B. Macfarlane, of Cutlin-
gral, sixth.
All seven Polwarth awards went to
Victorian entries, Dowling Gumming, of
Jellalabad, taking first, second and third ;
A. Dennis and Sons, Terang, fourth and
fifth; A. W. Dennis, Warncoort, sixth;
and Denis Larigan, of Warncoort,
seventh. Dowling Cumming and Co. won
the silver plaque for the best display of
three or more fleeces in any one breed.
Third section comprised market class
fleeces. There was a class for each spin-
ning quality from 80’s to carpet wools,
and international competition was very
keen. Australia was represented in most
of the classes by fleeces selected from a
display arranged by Grazcos, and M.L.
by A. Ramsden, of Hawke’s Bay.
Placings were:
80’s—Grazcos, fifth ; 70’s —Grazcos,
fourth and fifth; 64’s —Grazcos, fourth ;
58’s or 60’s —Grazcos, seventh ; 50’s —A.
Ramsden, fifth ; 46’s —A. Ramsden, fourth;
44’s —Grazcos, second ; 40’s —Grazcos,
first (this fleece came from Sydney Tech-
nical College).
The silver trophy for the best market
wools from a foreign country was won
by Grazcos, and the reserve bronze
trophy by J. E. Tomlinson, Boomi,
N.S.W.
Considering that news of the exposition
was not received in Australia until after
the bulk of the 1938 clip had been shorn
and passed out of owners’ hands, the
results are creditable. On account of
the lateness of the season Grazcos was
asked to organise the exhibit which was
successful. Grazcos also helped to select
and prepare several individual owners’
fleeces. Still, such things should not be left
to the voluntary efforts of private owners.
The R.A.S. and the various graziers’
and sheepbreeders’ associations should
organise to maintain a collection of
fleeces which might be used as a nucleus
for exhibition and publicity purposes —
it would be well worth while.
Such a collection, too, would have
historical value. Students and breeders
would find great interest in typical fleeces,
dating from Macarthur’s early merinos,
through the Saxon importations, the
Peppin sheep and Vermont period, had
they been kept.
Further Hints on Small Clips.
“Ghanam”: There must be attention
to detail. Dust is an enemy of high
prices. Apart from reducing yield, it
produces stain, makes the wool harsh to
handle, causes wear on cutters and
combs and generally makes for harder
shearing. Much dust cannot be avoided.
But some of that from dusty yards and
driving over dusty roads is preventible.
Dirty sheds made a lot of work. Where
sheep can be held in a clean, fairly bare
“Look at ’ Erb . ’E don't think of nothin' but eatin'.”
paddock for a few hours before shearing
it helps to cut out stain and droppings
in the shed. Sheep should be dagged
where possible before being taken into
the shed.
Fleece-picking needs care. There
should be only one fleece on the table
at a time, and it must be thrown flat and
level for good skirting. Not only should
stained pieces, seedy knots and fribby
leg wool be taken off with the coarse
britch wool, but tender and dirty wool
from the back should go with it. It
should be a first job after the fleece has
been shorn.
There is a right way and a wrong way
of rolling wool. If wool is to be un-
rolled in the store, fold the fleece in
three along its own length and roll in
from both ends. Otherwise it should be
rolled to show to the best advantage.
A good way is to fold the fleece along
the length line for nearly half-way. Then
keep on folding in the direction of the
roll to the end, thus placing the whole
strip of back wool along the top. Then
fold from britch to shoulder.
Faulty branding costs woolgrowers a
lot of money. Bales should have clear
figures of uniform thickness and at least
3in. high. The branding ink should not
contain oil, which may seep through into
the wool, and it should be clear black and
not likely to run. Numbers should run
in full sequence from the first bale to
the last. Don’t use any number or sign
which is not on a typewriter keyboard.
Brand on one end and one side of the
bale only, leaving the rest clear for
store marks.
Put on the grade—AA, etc.; sex —E
or W —and indicate lambs and hoggets.
Make marks standard BLS, bellies ;
PCS, pieces; LKS, locks; CTG, crutch-
ings, etc.
But before that be especially careful
about marking materials and raddles.
Don’t put anything sticky or turpentine
or linseed oil on wool. Use ordinary
petrol for a thinner and see that the
mixture is well stirred.
Liver Fluke.
“Sheepo”: The second egg-hatching of
the fluke snail in N.S.W. is due about
December. The egg masses are not
affected by bluestone, but the slightest
trace will kill snails. Destroy them before
they start to lay their eggs.
For broadcasting in the pastures, mix
one part powdered bluestone to four
parts fine sand, 1251 b. of the mixture
being enough to treat one acre. If scat-
tered about the edges of pools, swamps,
etc., a hundredweight of bluestone will
go a long way. Place small bags of blue-
stone in all waters where stock come to
drink. Repeated dosings with bluestone
will destroy millions of snails.
Carbon tet. will destroy fluke in in-
fested sheep, the dose for grown sheep
being 5 c.c. —four parts of liquid paraffin
mixed with one part carbon tet. Mixture
should be kept well corked. The dose
can also be given in capsules stocked by
most chemists, but the liquid method
gives less trouble.
Where fluke snails exist destroy the
snails themselves with bluestone, and dose
sheep with c.t. One without the other
won’t give much lasting result.
Bencubbin and Other Wheats.
“Norther”: Bencubbin, for which the
industry is indebted to Westralia, con-
tinues to make headway. In N.S.W. it
has become one of the leading varieties.
It emerged as a winner of competitions
in the central-west about 1935, and
has since had its share of wins in
the south-west, Riverina and southern
slopes. This year a 40-bushel Bencubbin
crop from W. E. Tonkin, of Myee, Palla-
mallawa, topped the Moree contest.
Highly resistant to flag smut, and with
a moderate resistance to stem rust, Ben-
cubbin should suit the N.S.W. nor’-west
wheatbelt when there is not too much
rain. The grain bleaches fairly readily,
but if it gets through comes out bright
and of moderately good flour strength.
No hard-and-fast rule can be laid
down about wheat varieties, the grower’s
chief concern being to produce wheat
that will fill his bags quickly with an f.a.q.
sample. At the same time, any departure
from proven varieties should not be
rushed —new wheats should be given
small field trials until there is reasonable
ground for assuming they will do well
in the particular district.
Out at Yetman, which is nearly on
the Queensland border, Aussie won a
prize. Very short-strawed and liable
to lodge, with soft grain and an easy prey
to flag smut, it is first on the N.S.W.
Agricultural Department’s list of banned
wheats.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jayem”: Sheep often eat the heads
and leave the straw when silage is fed.
This can be overcome by growing oats
(like Mulga) which go more to head
than straw for silage; by sprinkling
molasses (one part to five parts of water)
liberally over the silage ; by putting the
silage through a chaffcutter. Run a trail
of oats and place the silage on the trail.
“L.E.R.”: After a day treating fly-
blown sheep wash the hands thoroughly
in a disinfectant solution. All sorts of
germs hang round an animal wound, and
small scratches and
cuts on the hands
let them in.
“Rom Ney”:
Southdown - merino
cross lambs are
usually earlier than
those from cross-
bred mothers, and
the merino ewe is
thus able to fatten
her lamb before
grass-seed becomes
bad. Some claim
that more suckers
can be marketed
from the S.-M. cross
than from crosses in
which crossbred
ewes are used.
“Valerin”: Scabby mouth, prevalent
among lambs in N.S.W. this season, is
due to the abnormal growth of thistles.
The prickles penetrate the skin of mouth
and nose and the wounds become in-
fected. Contrary to general opinion s.m.
is infectious and can be transmitted by
sucking lambs to the ewes’ udders. Treat
with bluestone —loz. to a pint of warm
water. Immerse the nose and mouth for
a couple of minutes. Later dressing with
diluted stock tar will heal the sore.
“B. Rider”: Turnips, where they can
be grown, provide heavy and good graz-
ing, and give the landowner a chance to
spell some paddocks during winter, when
it is necessary, especially in colder parts,
to provide the sheep with good tucker.
It is a good plan to have a self-feeder
with chaff in the paddock. The sheep will
then balance the ration of their own
accord.
“leve”: It’s too late to look for beaters
when the grass fire breaks out. Make a
few now, and keep them in a handy place.
A handy implement is the long-handled
shovel.
“Bull-ant Bill”: A time-saving dodge
for marking off such mortise-and-tenon
( The Man on the Land continued on
page 40.)


BE COOL THIS SUMMER
IN SANDALS
Suit your footwear to the
weather. Do away with tired
feet in the Summertime by
wearing SANDALS.
They’re serviceable and com-
fortable, just the things for
coolness and ease. And as they
are ABBEY SANDALS they
will give long-time wear.
18'm
BLACK
OR BROWN.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY
m
f
m
m*
m
Real Economy
True economy does not always mean saving
the pence. It may be more important to save
time, to avoid risks, to conserve energy or
to avoid discomfort. That is why the opening
of a current account in this bank represents
real economy. You may draw cheques in
payment of accounts, conserve money not
immediately required and become entitled to
all the facilities the Bank provides for its
customers. Obtain the free booklet “Services
and Facilities” from our nearest Branch.
THE NATIONAL BANK
of Australasia Limited (Incorporated in Victoria)
50/16/38
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H. A. Rose & Co. Ptv. Ltd., King St., Sydney
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
FROM FACTORY
Fresk • Fragranf
TOBACCO
.AT NEW LOW PRICES/
Smokers /
Enjoy the World's Best
Empire-grown Tobaccos
These beautiful smoking blends give that extra
satisfaction and coolness which makes all the
difference. Made from the finest Empire-grown
leaf. , .
We Make It Good—Smokers Make It
Popular.
At practically half the price you are paying
elsewhere. ORDER NOW! Direct from the
manufacturer to you. .
With orders over £1 in all lines, a Briar or
Cherrywood Pipe, Tobacco Pouch, Cigarette
Lighter or Holder is included.
PIPE TOBACCO & FINE
First crop, mild . .
All British, mild
Riverhead Gold, medium
Old Peter, medium
Cavendish, strong
Beech Nut, medium
Africa, mellow and mil*
Soldiers’ Own, mild
Normandie, medium
Winning Post, medium .
Three Bells, strong
Bird’s Eye, medium
Latakia, in pipe only .
White Lodge, medium .
White Lodge, light
Barlock Flake, light and
Cahills, medium
Union Leader, medium .
Tender Leaf, medium .
Nigeroid, Black, pipe only
Special Heavy Extra, pipe only
d>»“k
CUT.
Per lb
6/9
6/9
6/9
6/9
6/9
7/3
7/3
7/3
7/9
8/-
8/
8/
10/3
10/-
11/
8/6
10/9
11/-
11/-
8/-
6/-
PLUG TOBACCO
“Clinker,” mild
“Skipper,” medium
“Big Hit,” strong
“Three Sailors”
“Royal Navy Nuggets
Irish Twist, 26 or 13 sticks
“Trade” Tobacco, 26 sticks
“P.M.” Dark Plug . .
Zig Zags . . . . 5 for 1/-
Postage Free in N.S.W. and Queensland.
6d. per pound extra to other States.
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
7/6
6/6
7/-
COMBINED GROWERS ;
12 COMMERCIAL RD„ VALLEY, BRISBANE.
repeat jobs as studs and wall-plates is
the use of home-made gauges. For, say,
7ft. studs of 3in. by 2in. cut a batten of,
say, 7ft. 6in. and nail a lin. stop across
one end to fit against the squared end of
the timber. Drive a nail through to make
a good scratching point 2in. from the
stop, another 7ft. from the stop, and a
third 2in. short of that. Make a width-
mortising gauge on similar lines from a
bit of 2in. by lin. stuff with cross stop
and nails spaced to suit. One rub of the
long gadget marks off tenon butts and
top end ; repeat on the other side. Saw
off according to timber length and repeat
as necessary. Mark tenons on sides and
ends with the short one, also mortises on
the wall-plate, putting a pencil-squiggle
on the side from which you use it in
both cases, and see that they match when
you fit them together.
“Canbelego”: Since 1927 wool pro-
duction on Chatsworth, Binda (N.S.W.),
owned by R. O. Williams, has been more
than doubled. Pasture improvement is
the reason. Up to 1927 yearly production
averaged 31,5961 b. of wool from the 4113
acres. Production for the 1937-38 year
was 67,6231 b. In the 12 years average
wool yield per sheep has increased by 21b.
Losses of lambs in 1920-27 was 7.3 p.c.—
it is now 2.04 p.c. Williams tried top-
dressing with super, to stimulate legumes
in the natural pasture. In the first year
the response of native grasses and clovers
was remarkable. He then broadcast sub.
clover and harrowed it in, and increased
the subdivision from 10 to 39 paddocks
for rotational grazing. Practically the
whole of the property has now been
sown with sub. clover —with no previous
cultivation. Until the clover becomes
well established, generally in two years,
super, is applied annually. From then on
pastures are topdressed every second year.
Cost is approximately 2s. Id. per acre
annually. Mineral deficiency has been
restored by topdressing, as the cost of
licks has been reduced from £3OO a year
to less than £l5O in a decade.
“Rom Ney”: I should like to know more
about the C.S. and I.R. tests with blow-
fly at Gilruth Plains (B. 8/11/’39). On
lucerne or any lush feed the longer tail
might prove a disadvantage because of
the softer and more frequent excretions.
Personal experience with sheep on soft
feed was that the longer the tail the more
frequent and severe the strike. Many
years ago the writer used Stockholm tar
and kerosene as a fly-dressing, and,
though all sorts of specifics have been
recommended since, it seems that mixture
is still as good as any other. My old
mixture of tar and kero, carried a small
proportion of fish oil, and, though not
absolutely efficient, considerably reduced
the amount of strike.
“X.T.”: Cattle figures for the past year
show an increase in Queensland of only
2.31 p.c.—to 6,097,089—and gains are
mostly in dairy districts. Government
meat schemes do not seem to have given
much impetus to the development of the
beef industry. Despite recurrent droughts,
however, sheep numbers reached a record
23,158,000, or nearly 5,000,000 more than
in 1928. The greatest increases were in
the north-west—between Hughenden and
Cloncurry owners were 399,000 better
off than the previous year —but some of
the best of the Central District country
suffered heavily through the drought.
Longreach numbers declined by 248,000,
from Isis to Windorah the decline was
331,000, or 38 p.c., and in the southern
part of Maranoa along the border fence
numbers were depleted by 158,000. With
the almost generally good season another
record should be made this year. Only
once before did Queensland sheep
number 23,000,000 —in 1915 —and a
drought in the next year cured that.
Queensland now easily holds its place as
the second sheep State.
“Norther”: North Coast Steam has
given much monetary assistance to pas-
ture improvement and similar schemes in
the cow country of the N.S.W. Northern
Rivers. Its latest contribution is an ad-
vance, free of interest, to Grafton dairy-
men who need new silos or haysheds
for fodder conservation.
“Canbelego”: W. G. Cains and J. S.
Liebius, Boonoo Boonoo, Douglas Park
(N.S.W.), are breeding porkers for the
Sydney trade from first-cross Tamworth-
Berkshire sows. They run 65 brood sbws,
and have a pedigreed Tamworth boar.
The ration comprises sjlb. of porridge
made from gristed wheatmeal, 2gal. of
liquid buttermilk, plus meatmeal and
cod liver oil, per pig daily in three feeds.
Green oats and barley are fed as supple-
ments, other crops including maize,
amber cane, saccaline, sugar beet, arti-
chokes, tares and rape. Mixed crops for
grazing are grown in the pens when they
are being spelled. Pigs are topped off in
small yards in which showers are turned
on for two hours daily. The showers
keep the pigs cool in hot weather, and
the washing down improves their appear-
ance when they go to market. Ample
space is provided for exercise in the
breeding section. Each pen has its own
water trough, and all pens are washed
out daily. Water is pumped from the
Nepean River at a cost of Is. per 1500 gal.
“Mt. Boppy”: Schlunke Bros., Reefton,
Temora (N.S.W.), fenced off a badly-
eroded patch of land that would grow
nothing, and sowed it with Wimmera rye,
lucerne, oats and wheat. Growth was
excellent, and the plot was restored to
pasture. Poplars, pencil pines, white
cedars and flowering gums were planted
to help anchor the soil. Two creeks on
the same property were fenced off and
the natural pastures stimulated with
super. The resultant growth was heavy
enough to prevent further erosion of the
creeks.
“B. Cubbin”: Malcolm Campbell,
who has been bothered by the spread of
galvanised burr on Myall Downs, Coon-
amble (N.S.W.), is trying to wipe it out
with wheat. About 4000 of his 7500 acres
have been infested. The dead timber has
been cleared and 1750 acres sown with
wheat. After two crops, the land will be
sown with lucerne. The crop is showing
up well at present. Annual average rain-
fall is about 20 inches, and the soil is
fairly light, approximating that of the
Pilliga scrub which it adjoins. Although
there was no thought of it at the time, the
war and the British wheat purchase will
help the experiment to pay for itself. Ulti-
mate success depends, of course, on the
cover of lucerne or other pasture that
can be established following the wheat.
“Valerin”: Police should be given dis-
cretionary power to enforce the regula-
tion forbidding burning in open country
after November 1. On heavily-grassed
areas ploughing breaks is hopeless. By
using roads, these could be safely burnt
under police supervision and with the
co-operation of shires and bushfire bri-
gades. It is the only chance of localising
outbreaks.
“Yarrunga”: A revolutionary type of
circular sheep dip is in use on W. H.
Kendall and Sons’ Miarb property at The
Rock (N.S.W.). The sheep are carried
into the dip on a revolving table by the
impetus of their own weight. The possi-
bility of too many sheep being propelled
into the dip at the one time is checked
by a brake. The trouble usually experi-
enced with sheep that have passed
through a dip two or three times is over-
come in the revolving carriage. The con-
trivance is simple in construction and
apparently is foolproof.
“Yanco”: : Soy bean is being estab-
lished on the Murrumbidgee (N.S.W.)
irrigation areas as a commercial crop. In
two years of field trials, yields up to 25
bushels an acre and oil content of as
much as 22 p.c. have been obtained.
These results are regarded as satisfactory,
but they can be enhanced by the use of
improved American varieties which are
being tested. This season several irriga-
tion farmers have planted areas ranging
up to 12 acres —in all cases to the limit
of the seed obtainable. The production
of seed to extend the acreage next sowing
is the present objective.


THE OTHER
FELLOWS
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4£d. per line;
all others at 2£d. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published are not disqualified.
For suggesting that the Commonwealth should tax lottery tickets and prizes, as
well as personal earnings and income from property, for the nation’s service in war-
time, a Sydney writer is awarded double rates. It was done when there was no war.
Why Not?
I have been informed that approxi-
mately £50,000 is distributed in Aus-
tralia each week in lottery winnings
via various “investments.” This sum,
of course, represents prize-money and
not the amount that gullible Australians
donate to the lottery “to assist the
hospitals.”
Why can’t the Commonwealth impose
(d) a war tax of 3d. in the shilling on
the value of every lottery ticket sold, and
( b ) a war gift tax of 20 p.c. on every
prize? The yield would represent a battle-
ship if the war is prolonged. In one
State it would mean that lottery tickets
would cost 6s. 6d. and the effective value
of the first prize would be £4OOO ; in
another, tickets would cost 6s. 10d., and
the first prize would be £4750.
If Australian gamblers are not willing
to make that contribution to the nation’s
defence the country should still benefit
because the purchasing value of the basic
wage would be increased by the amount
saved on lottery tickets. — Logar (N.S.W.).
“Logar” is Gareth Lloyd, Box 2213 LL,
G.P.0., Sydney.
The Soldier and His Beer
Why deprive the soldier of his beer?
Search me. But why should the soldier
claim the right to have beer laid on to
his residence, so to speak? If beer is
so very essential for the troops, why not
also have wet canteens in shearing sheds,
on country relief-work jobs, on ships of
the R.A.N. and in the universities?
I’m an old soldier myself and recog-
nise all this pro-beer propaganda for
what it is. Give the soldier enough beer,
say those who might otherwise be taxed
more heavily to pay him a decent wage,
and that will keep him quiet.—lnnis-
killing Dragoon (N.S.W.).
Camp Cooks
Women for camp cooking (B.
1/11 /’39) has a sound precedent. The
Women’s Legion (first of several bodies
of uniformed women recruited for work
with the British armed forces in the Great
War) were at the outset mainly camp
cooks, and a good job they did. Lady
Londonderry’s camp cooks were the
pioneers of the labors that won for
British women long before the war ended
the vote they had fought for bitterly and
in vain for a couple of generations.
But what about casting a reformatory
eye over that mile-long list of reserved
occupations in Australia? An eager
young acquaintance of mine was recently
turned down at the recruiting office be-
cause he was engaged in the catering
business?— Wooden Betty (S.A.).
Keeping Volunteers’ Jobs
What about the unemployed who
volunteer? Is there any guarantee that
the dole will be kept open for them so
that they will have something to fall
back on when it’s all over and we’re
down to our last figleaf?
That’s what’s holding me back.—
Adolf Boneypart (N.S.W.).
Who Speaks for Democracy?
In conversation with an Australian
Communist leader last week, I asked a
series of questions about the aims of the
party and received a number of very
plausible answers and a pamphlet written
by a church dignitary. Two hours later I
met one of the rank and file, and, repeat-
ing my questions, received identical
answers and the same pamphlet. Becom-
ing interested, I waylaid another “com-
rade,” repeated the experiment and
obtained exactly the same results.
These three admirers of Stalin, and
thousands of others, pull together as one
team. They have the courage of their
convictions, and are always ready to
render a reason for their faith. And they
find plenty of good listeners among the
unemployed.
If democratic citizens showed the same
interest in politics and politicians all the
year round there would be no need to
make voting compulsory. Elections
would be less casual, and our Parlia-
mentary representatives would not find
it so easy to play the role of feudal
barons.
We are told that Germany is run by
a minority of Nazis, and that Russia is
ruled by a minority of Communists; but
it is equally true that Australia is run —
or held up—by a privileged class of
place-seekers without much intellectual
help from the average free and enlight-
ened elector.
Of the thousands now willing to fight
for our democratic institutions, how
many are willing to spend even a frac-
tion of their leisure on reading, thinking
or talking about our allegedly ideal sys-
tem of “government by the people”?—■
What’s the Score (S.A.).
South African Disunity
The nigger in the South African wood-
pile is not the black man, but the Jew.
In the Union they number about 10 p.c.
of the white population, and hundreds
more have been coming in every month
for a long time. They nearly all live in
towns, and constitute about 25 p.c. of
the white people in the larger urban
centres. They own or have a controlling
interest in nearly 80 p.c. of the profitable
trade. They all speak English or near-
English, all want war with Germany, and
most despise the Afrikaans-speaking
people. There are hardly any poor S.
African Jews ; many of them are osten-
tatiously wealthy.
The Dutch or Afrikaans-speaking
people amount to about 60 p.c. of the
whites, and are mostly poor as compared
with the Jews. About one in four is
destitute and living below the breadline.
The average Dutchman does not believe
that Hitler threatens him as much as the
Jew does, and he sees in the destruction
of Hitlerism only another leg-up for the
international Jew, who already owns or
controls most of the wealth in S. Africa.
In the Parliamentary split that divided
Smuts and Hertzog on the war question
all the 11 Jews in the South African
Parliament voted for war along with the
English-speaking members. For this and
other reasons the Dutch South Africans
identify the Jew with the English, and
firmly believe that the war is as much
for Jewry as for England or for the Brit-
ish Empire. That’s why they are against
the war, and the feeling will be inten-
sified now that Jewish enlistments in some
Jo’burg military units are almost half the
personnel.
To serve in a regiment shoulder to
shoulder with Jews and to make com-
mon cause with his economic enemies
against a hypothetical foe is unthinkable
for the Dutch nationalist. — Springbok
(Tas.).
Camouflage
Though in some countries it is a crime
to supply information of military value
to the enemy, the rule does not seem to
apply to the press of England or Aus-
tralia.
For camouflage, now recognised as one
of the arts of war, tons of paint are used
to make houses look like trees and busy
haunts of men like empty paddocks. But
newspapers publish photos, of fakes for
all, including the foe, to see and admire.
The German High Command must
have been very much interested in two
pictures of a large London gasworks,
taken before and after artistic treatment.
Another illustration showed in minute
detail how a huge factory had been made
to resemble a peaceful wayside village,
with a dummy church steeple to lend an
air of innocence to the scene.
Not even a master spy could think of
a better way of directing bombers to
their objectives. Thousands of Germans
know the topography of England better
than do the English, and such clues to
the position of vulnerable points are little
short of suicidal.
They are good journalism, however,
and I suppose press photographs of the
same places after a few direct hits from
incendiary bombs would still be good
journalism.
I wonder what the owners of the
premises think about it. Newsboy
(S.A.). _
City and Country
“It must be terribly dull living on a
farm all the year round,” our city flapper
visitor asserted, and she was so divinely
right that it was unthinkable to contra-
dict her. According to her, living on a
farm (except for a short holiday, which
was great fun and quite different) was
just impossible. Any member of her
“crowd” would just “expire” at the
thought of it.
I didn’t tell her that I knew people
who would “expire” at the thought of
living in the city; that to many people
farming was not only their first choice
as a means of making a living, but also
their most absorbing hobby; that some
people liked to be alone sometimes, or
that they preferred a few friends of many
years’ standing to her constantly chang-
ing “crowd” —I had already learned from
her that all that sort of thing was too,
too old-fashioned for words.
She was one of a “crowd.” She needed
to be entertained all the time, and the
entertainment had to be “snappy.”
(“Snappy,” I gathered, was superficially
bright and up to the minute.) She had
to see every new show at least during
the first week, and refused to see a talkie
with us because it had been in Sydney
months ago. She hadn’t seen it, but her
“crowd” had, and she’d be ashamed to
tell them she had seen it so late.
To “waste*’ an evening over a book or
listening to a radio play was unthinkable.
But there was one thing in which they
hadn’t made so much progress in the city.
I gathered that even the Smartest Set
hadn’t been able to think of any sub-
stitutes for the old-fashioned vices. They
were still popular.—E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
Radio Serials
In his book Cobbers, Thomas Wood
mentions that he marvelled at the enthu-
siasm of Australian adults when they
discover, now and then, the obvious. As
an import of only 25 years’ residence in
Queensland, I am still marvelling at it.
When I walk up the street at 7.15 on
almost any night of the week, the radios
I hear proclaim the fact that eight out of
ten families are away on that undis-
criminating journey into the obvious
which is provided by “Dad and Dave”
and one or two other radio serials. And
this on four nights a week, too! I’d like
to see them compressed, if we must have
them, into a short session once a week
called “Half-hour for Half-wits.”
In my private capacity of Domestic
Tyrant, I long ago issued a ukase that
“Dad and Dave” was not to be switched
on in any circumstances. In my alterna-
tive capacity of Statistician and Social
Analyst, I have found that no demand
exists in the home circle for it or any
other radio serial, and also that a child
of 10 can listen to Shaw’s “Saint Joan”
with interest, understanding and profit.
I should also like to indict, condemn
and vilify those pseudo-historical dramas
which pretend to portray the private
lives of successive royalties, and the
crime thrillers of innumerable episodes
littered over with ghosts and gore.
The educational authorities in every
State are trying, with the assistance of
wireless, talkies and demonstrations, to
extend the interest of school-children to
include cultural subjects and to foster
appreciation of what is good in litera-
ture, music and art. The success of their
efforts would be speedier and greater
if they abolished these wretched radio
serials. — Anither (Q.).
License
In 1846 Charlotte Bronte published
Jane Eyre, and barely a century later
some American playwright dishes up a
mere skeleton of the original garnished
with such succulent titbits as he thinks
fit for his “public.”
The real Jane fades before a quick-
tempered, “rather pretty” damsel who
shrieks emotionally and slams doors in
the accepted modern fashion. And, not
content with dismembering the main
character, the playwright muddles and
changes the story when it would have
been so easy to retain the tone and dig-
nity of the era.
This is but one instance of the license
allowed these times, when the classics are
better known in their metamorphosed
state, full of Americanisms and notions
of men who care only for commercial
gain. Let them dally with their own
country’s contributions, but let us keep
close to us a little longer the works which
help to form our national literature
Margaret (Q.).
Freetrade
I join issue with “Benn” (B. 25/10/’39)
on his essential No. 3 for peace terms —
“plans for freer trading between nations
and the abolition of restrictive tariff
walls.” There is nothing more surely
provocative of a future scrap than un-
restrained international freetrade.
A necessary corollary to such trade
is an international standard of living, and
that means the lowest standard which an
industrially organised—and maybe, when
competitive pressure is on, industrially
conscripted—nation chooses to impose
on the world.
It means “dumping” and consequent
ruination of home industries. It would
mean that partially-developed industrial
countries, such as Australia, would be
forced to resort to primary production as
a sole means of existence, and to primary
production at world prices, unsupported
by any higher home-consumption price
or bonus or bounty.— Nisio (N.S.W.).
Library Books and Disease
Does it ever occur to people that
library books are a potential grave danger
to public health. Anyone who frequents
public libraries must be horrified by the
dangers incident to the indiscriminate
exchange of books among all classes of
the community. I have seen and handled
books that bore all the signs of being first-
rate carriers of germs of any of half a
dozen well-known diseases.
The very least to be expected is that
libraries should be compelled to adopt
some system of decontamination by
fumigation or other suitable means. No
doubt, as usual, everybody is waiting for
a really first-class epidemic to be traced
to this field before action is taken. —Ex
Libris (N.S.W.).
Sydney Municipal Library
Some of the cash borrowed and squan-
dered by N.S.W. Government and “semi-
Government” institutions could be well
spent in administering a drastic face-lift-
ing to the Sydney Municipal Library.
The entrance itself is disgraceful. The
gloomy vestibule has a rank odor remi-
niscent of subterranean chambers and
stale beer; the steps are dirty and aged,
and dimness renders descent and ascent
of the staircase a risky business. Perhaps
when somebody loses life or limb by
falling officialdom will spend a few pence
on a light bulb and some flex.
There is a lift, admittedly, but only
those with time to spare can use it. It’s
an antiquated crate that drags itself
gradually upward with alarming jerks
and hesitations.
Searching for a book is like prospect-
ing for gold, only worse. Much solici-
tation, wandering up and down aisles and
consulting of the index system generally
result in an exhaustive session of refer-
ence and cross-reference. That much
accomplished, the rightful lair of the
Australian Authorship
“T.E.P.” (B. 1/11/ ’39) got very near
the bone when he blamed the limited
reading public and not the Australian
author for the deplorable condition of
our literature.
I could count on the fingers of my
hands the Australian writers who are
eking out a living as freelance writers.
As Scott remarked, writing is an excel-
lent stick but an unreliable crutch, and
most freelance writers I know have part-
time jobs in the most unexpected trades,
that arrangement providing the rent and
enough tucker to render a rejection slip
a document deserving only mild con-
tempt.
So, upon this basis, the Australian
writer continues to hammer out his stuff
in the hope that (a) the Government will
introduce a bill prohibiting the importa-
tion of cheap foreign literature, or that
(b) he will manage to hit upon the Great
Australian (unwritten) Classic.
I have seen rejected Australian MSS.
immeasurably superior in every way to
the imported rubbish printed by so-called
Australian journals. If every daily news-
paper put its patriotic principles into
practice and published an Australian
short story in each issue, the few quid
thus outlaid would not only come back
tenfold, but would provide a much-
needed fillip to our literature.
Instead of preaching claptrap about
Australian scribes who have “made good”
in England, let us see something about
those who have made good in their own
country, “owing to the policy of this news-
paper to publish only the work of Aus-
tralians.”
Enough brilliant writers have already
given Australia a rejection slip.-
CELT
(N.S.W)


book is found, and then it’s ten to one
that there’s a cuckoo in the nest. I’ve
spent six months searching for a book
and then given up the chase as hopeless.
In the reading-room you can stand on
alternate legs for half an hour or so wait-
ing to get at a certain paper. The ten
minutes’ reading limit is rarely, if ever,
enforced. Why not file several copies of
a paper separately to obviate this
trouble?
The building itself is like some mon-
strous antique—an incongruity among
the modern structures that surround it.
It’s cramped and inadequate, and situated
and constructed in such a way that it
seems to admit the maximum of the city’s
din. The municipal library of the largest
white city but one in the British Empire
is worthy of much better housing.—
D. N. (N.S.W.).
State Jealousies
Although it is nearly 40 years since
Australia became a Commonwealth, State
jealousies and prejudices are still ram-
pant, and disgruntled politicians are
mainly to blame. Immediately they see
their own ambitions being thwarted and
their importance declining, they raise the
old bogey that we are being dominated
by a neighboring State.
When the Federal Cabinet met in Mel-
bourne recently and announced that
much of the nation’s business would be
carried on there during the war, Sydney
had convulsions. From the talk of “Mel-
bourne domination” the Cabinet might
well have been sitting in Berlin under the
watchful eye of Adolf himself.
As a sop to wounded vanity, the fol-
lowing week found Menzies and com-
pany stopping for a meeting in Sydney.
And leading the wailing brigade were
several prominent N. S. Wales politicians
who should have been first to acknow-
ledge that Melbourne is now the more
suitable centre of administration. The
only growl should have been Australian-
wide —why did we pay for Canberra if
it is to be abandoned with the first signs
of emergency?
Defence contracts, naval docks and all
large public works allocations produce
similar discontent among the unfavored
States, a discontent which the local mem-
bers play on in the hope of securing a
few extra parish-pump votes at the next
elections. The only way to banish inter-
state jealousies is to abolish State Par-
liaments. — Ricardo (N.S.W.).
The Writing on the Wall
At a recent meeting in St. James Hall,
Phillip-street, Sydney, 400 people pro-
tested against the drastic increases in taxa-
tion imposed by the N. S. Wales State
Government. Little significance can be
attached to what transpired, but the meet-
ing may yet prove the beginning of one
of the most urgent and important reforms
in our history—the abolition of State
Parliaments.
When that happens, Mair and his
spendthrift predecessor, by their econo-
mics, will deserve a central position in a
group of lead statuary erected on the
ruins of every State House. Six hundred
and nine politicians taxing us a hundred
and twenty millions a year have materi-
ally assisted in the gradual deterioration
of the country’s financial position —only
a small fraction of Governmental and
departmental salaries would be necessary
to solve all Mair’s “urgent necessities.”
The movement for the abolition of
State Parliaments deserves all the pub-
licity it can get, for that is the way
reforms are effected. Such a reform can
only come from outside Parliament, as
nobody can expect State Parliaments to
fashion their own guillotine, but what
we may demand and expect is that an
independent tribunal be set up to examine
our chaotic Parliamentary system. Only
thus can such a drastic measure be in-
troduced, and no taxpayer would be-
grudge the cost of this tribunal. —Wm.
Lynch (N.S.W.).
Home-made Wines
If “Ente” (B. 11/10/’39) toured the
east coast of Tasmania he could sample
many a cask of wine made from local
fruit, cherries and gooseberries. And if
his head could stand the mixture he
could include a few glasses of home-
made cider, too. —F. U. F. (W.A.).
Filth
i How is one to discriminate between
good and bad magazines? In an Ameri-
can publication I read recently the first
article dealt with social diseases so tem-
perately, sensibly and plainly, that one
could do nothing but admire it. It was
an article that any mother would gladly
pass on to her children.
The next item in the magazine was a
story, written so humorously that one
could overlook the broadness of it. Two
excellent cartoons followed, dealing, of
course, with wine and women, but they
also were good in drawing and in jest.
Then came page after page of sheer,
unadulterated filth and rottenness, both
in picture and in prose.
That book at first was good, and had
I not read it through I might have left
it for family reading. Must a parent read
through every page of a publication be-
fore she can let her family look at
it, or is there no way of checking this
flow of garbage?— Mater (N.T.).
Australian Canning Industry
If this war lasts for the predicted three
years there will be great scope in Aus-
tralia for the canning and drying of
fruits and vegetables. Civilians in the
Allied countries, as well as the fighting
forces, will have to be fed, and supplies
of fresh fruits and vegetables will be
scarce.
Canned products retain most of their
nourishment, are easy to transport and
store, and keep for indefinite periods.
The same applies to those which can be
dried.
Canning and drying plants in Australia
will be working overtime within a year
if the war does not end before then, and
there will be a great demand for materials
to can and dry. There is scope here for
relief of unemployment. It does not take
much experience to grow vegetables, and
the area need not be great. The Govern-
ments should make land available to
selected unemployed, provide them with
tents, tools and seeds, and set them off
in a self-supporting industry. The first
crops would be harvested and ready for
treatment within a few months.
Home vegetable plots will become
more important than ever, and in addi-
tion to relieving the housekeeping ex-
penses and maintaining the health of the
family they will lighten the pressure on
canned and dried goods needed to feed
defence forces and overseas countries.
Everyone who has the land can do a.
national duty by starting a garden.—
Sam Square (N.S.W.).
Practical Education
The average girl, who spends 10 to 12
years of her life swotting material of no
earthly use to her, should be made to
study social developments as they affect
life generally and absorb a knowledge
of biology, art and such literature as will
broaden and develop the mind.
Domestic subjects should also be in-
cluded in the curriculum, and at the end
of her school years the girl should spend
at least 12 months at home with her
mother. She would thus absorb a prac-
tical knowledge of home life and gain
practice in entertaining and social arts
which dignify the home and make life
worth while.
Then if she still desires to enter busi-
ness or explore the mysteries of higher
education, let her. The break at home
will not spoil her cultural or professional
ambitions —if she is genuinely interested
in science, law, medicine, business or the
arts her 12 months will be the testing
time of her interest. If she is a poor
girl it should give her a chance to find
herself before entering the hurly-burly of
factory life.
The snobbery which spoils home life
would be eliminated, and girls would
realise that the best contribution a woman
can make to every side of life is her
distinctive femininity. We need more of
it these days.— Femina (N.S.W.).
Articled Clerks
An inquiry into legal costs (B.
1/11 /’39) might well include investiga-
tion of the standing of articled clerks in
the legal profession.
To become a solicitor in N. S. Wales
it is necessary to serve five years’ articles
with a practising solicitor as well as tak-
ing the degree or sitting for solicitor’s
examinations. An articled clerk does
anything, from delivering letters and act-
ing as general office boy to interviewing
and advising clients and taking full re-
sponsibility for important lawsuits. For
this he often receives ten shillings per
week, with a slight rise after two or three
years.
The system was, no doubt, introduced
in the distant past with the idea that a
law student should gain a good ground-
ing in practice under the watchful eye nf
managing clerk or master solicitor, but
in those days articled clerks had an easy
life, and spent most of their day smoking,
gambling or idling their time away in
the nearest coffee house.
It is a very different story now, and
the articled clerk does a great deal of
responsible work in the office, but still
for the same paltry sum. It means that
only the sons of wealthy parents can
study law, unless the student is lucky
enough to find a solicitor who treats his
clerks with some consideration.
Why not an award rate for articled
clerks?— A. C. (N.S.W.).
Dead-end Jobs
I am 16 and have been at a com-
mercial college studying shorthand, typing
and bookkeeping for about eight months.
I will soon be qualified to start in life
as a reporter —an interesting occupation
with good prospects. Before going to
the commercial college I attended a high
school for three years and obtained an
intermediate certificate with six Bs and
two As. Yet if I had taken up a position
on leaving school it would probably have
been in one of the many dead-end jobs.
At the high school a course of short-
hand and typing was recently introduced,
and my father decided that my young
brother should take it. On inter-
viewing the headmaster, however, he
was told that a pupil would learn more
in three months at a commercial college
than in three years at the high school.
It seems to me, then, that one way of
overcoming the problem of dead-end
jobs would be to make the technical
courses at our high schools much more
comprehensive, so that on leaving school
a boy would be fully qualified for a
position with good prospects. — Sixteen
(N.S.W.).
Another Red Play
Neither The Bulletin’s current propa-
ganda play nor the patriotic anthems of
the U.S.S.R. (B. 18/10/’39) can show
such concentrated dramatic effect as a
play printed in a pink publication. It
opens with Mary (irresponsible young
thing) being reproved by Anne (con-
scientious comrade) for buying a pair of
silk stockings:
Anne: Do you know where silk comes
from?
Mary:....Oh, shut up; I don’t want
any of your propaganda talk about
Japanese and Chinese so shut up and
go to hell.
Anne: It’s the Chinese who’ll go to hell,
not me.
After which Mary asserts that a girl has
no chance of “grabbing a man” with
lisle-clad legs like Anne’s, and then sleeps.
Enter Japanese Fascist, whose speech
goes something like this:
J.F.:
I’m a Fascist from Japan,
I kill the Chinese all I can,
I love to fill my bombing ’plane
With lovely bombs that I can rain
Upon the children in the road,
What fun to see the bombs explode!
A flash, a crash, a sickening thud,
And arms and legs and brains and blood!
Mary:
Stop, stop, this is terrible.
J.F.:
But that’s the way we civilise
By dropping murder from the skies,
And when we’ve conquered China, ah!
Then we will turn our gaze afar,
For we must see our flag unfurled
O’er every country in the world,
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, too,
We’ll pour our bombs right down on you.
Follows cold logic in which Japanese
Fascist conclusively proves that Mary’s
silk stockings are the equivalent of one
bomb on the Chinese or even on her,
with which Mary wakes up, discovers it
all only a “horrible dream,” and resolves
thenceforth to be a reformed character.
Mary: Where are those silk stockings?
There [throwing them into the fire], into
the fire you go.
Anne: Mary! Why? .
Mary: That’s the last pair of silk stock-
ings I’ll ever buy.
The play seems to be most appreciated
by those whose political views are
opposed to the author’s. — Taurus (Vic.).
“Age of Bewilderment”
“C.L.D.” (B. 18/10/’39) appears to
have got the pip. Assuming for the
sake of argument that “the present
generation” do live only for the present,
there is really nothing reprehensible in
that.
To live on the pin-point of a moment
is an accomplishment for which many
philosophers would have given both their
eyes and ears to achieve. Nor is there
anything more to bewilder anyone now
than there has been at any period in the
history of Homo sapiens. Life itself, in
every age, has been a bewilderment to
those who have lacked mental and moral
stability. Man does not gain inner cer-
tainty by being able to save money for
a “secure” future nor by deriving com-
fort from the thought of an after-life.
Man builds his own citadel, independent
of the world, past, present or future. The
secret of security is locked within his
own being, and it is for him to find the
key.
My own quarrel with the present
generation is not that they live for the
present, but that they can hardly be
said to live at all. They are really
parasites who exist in a. position of com-
plete dependence on triviality. In them-
selves they have no real or separate exist-
ence from the froth and bubble created
by their own illusions. There is no
“age of bewilderment” for those who
are really alive.— Propagandum (N.S.W.).
I sympathise with “C.L.D.’s” lament
m 18/10/’39) that the future promises
little better than guns and destruction,
but I see no cause for his pure pessimism.
More than a century ago, when
Napoleon was playing the devil m
Europe, statesmen feared civilisation to
be on the verge of ruin and the British
Empire likely to fall at any moment.
Each successive world crisis appears more
terrible and decisive than those preced-
ing it. , .
Faith and sense of perspective are what
we need even more than material encour-
agement to build for the future. We
should have confidence in the ability of
man to survive the bloodshed he brings
upon himself and to construct a better
society.
And we should view the present up-
heaval as a passing ordeal on the long
road to a nobler life, and not as the end
of all hope. If we lose faith we lose
everything.— Arthur Falk (Vic.).
A Young Man’s Game
War is a young man’s game. In 1914,
when Sir lohn French went across the
Channel with his team to play the game
around Mons, he was about 63 ; young
Joffre was so sprightly (in his sixties then)
that he was known affectionately as
“Papa” ; and on the other side they had
young Hindenburg, rising 60, and young
Ludendorff, about 55. Foch, who rose
to prominence later, was also hitting the
sixties.
Don’t these children who write to The
Bully realise that there are thousands of
n.c.os. and commissioned officers in the
British army in Lorraine to-day who are
well over 45? It’s only in Australia that
men become unfit at 40 or 35. Every
other nation in the world uses human
war material up to at least 55—even
more so to-day, when troops are carried
here, there and everywhere in lorries,
’planes, etc.
The soldier’s pack has been lightened
like everything else. The only thing that
has not changed is that when a bomb
falls on a soldier or a bullet or a bayonet
pierces him in the heart it does not stop
to ask his age.
N.B. Napoleon crashed at 46.
General de Rangement (N.S.W.).
University Election
The quinquennial election of the
Fellows of the Sydney University has
taken place, and for a month gradu-
ates were inundated with letters drawing
their attention to the superior claims of
Gallstones, M. 8., or MacHinery, M.E.,
to election.
This doubtful method of canvassing,
savoring of the share-pushing methods of
go-getting salesmen, is indulged in most
frequently by the medical and engineer-
ing professions and, in most letters, the
case history of the candidate is minutely
covered, with special emphasis on war
service. What influence a war record,
worthy though it is, would have on capa-
city for administration of University
affairs is decidedly obscure, and the ques-
tion arises as to how the B.M.A. recon-
ciles the practice with its ban on adver-
tising and publicity generally.
The latest in the field with a party
“ticket” was the Teachers’ Federation,
which endeavored by similar means
to whip up the enthusiasm of blase
teacher graduates.
All candidates have a long way to go
before the sliding panel, multiple voting
and the ward boss arrive to lend the elec-
tion a modern touch, but they may be
on the way.—B.Ec. (N.S.W.).
A Chance Has Come
Now the Australian National Travel
Association can really do something to
justify its existence and the enormous
grants it collects from the taxpayers. The
war has put a stop to Australians gadding
about Europe, America, Asia and Africa
on sightseeing tours, and they can well
be persuaded to have a look at their own
country, of which most of them know
very little.
The A.N.T.A. could get busy right
away publicising the Queensland coast
and Barrier Reef, Victorian forests, Tas-
mania, Riverina, N.S.W. mountains and
coast, Central Australia and the N.T.,
S.A.’s Mt. Lofty and Mt. Gambier
regions, and W.A.’s unknown beauties.
Properly handled, these tourists, once
having developed the habit, can be per-
suaded into going almost anywhere, and
if the A.N.T.A. gets busy it might even
become a praiseworthy thing in a land
suddenly made known to its moneyed
people.
This country is so full of interesting
things, both natural and man-made, that
a traveller doing nothing else could not
see it all inside 10 years. — Straight Wirh
(N.S.W-)*


Mainly Mail-Order
The Ideal SOLDIER’S WATCH
1
vjr^.
DUSTPROOF
WATERPROOF
SHOCKPROOF
Ideal for Out-
doors. Essentially
a man’s watch.
Not affected by
tropical climes.
Guaranteed, and
12 months’ free
service.
Usually 75/-. Special to
“Bulletin” Readers, Post Free.
67/6
for free illustrated watch
diamond ring catalogue.
and
DIAMOND
& WATCH
SPECIALISTS
tut
112 MARKETS!
> SYDNEY,
OPR DAVIDJONES
“FRIG-ETTE” PORTABLE
ICE CHESTS
ţ
(CORK INSULATED)
Ideal lor picnics, motor
1 tours, sporting and all
outdoor uses. Available
in two sizes. .
SENIOR Model, capacity
4 bottles and food box
or 8 bottles without food
box, PRICE 39/6.
JUNIOR Model, capacity
6 bottles (without food
box), PRICE 29/6.
Senior Model All Stores or direct from
J. HICKMER & SONS PTY. LTD.,
150-152 Brighton .Street, Richmond, El, Vic.
teMfatlMotOk
IPS
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible—
No wires—No batteries
—-No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting- rooms,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Write for Booklet Suite 60 1 K, city Mutual
Building, cnr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Musical Instruments
tu
for 57/6
We will send you a BANJO-
MANDOLIN (as illustrated)
and Complete Outfit with Case,
Correspondence Course and
Extra Strings for 57/6.
We guarantee you will be able
to play tunes within 7 days,
otherwise your full money will
be returned. Goods can be
sent C.O.D.
THE TALKERIES
161 Castlereagh St., Sydney,
PHGE'
STOVES
USE LESS FUEL
Famous throughout Victoria since 1907.
The patent adjustable grate in “PAGE”
stoves may be adjusted into three posi-
tions for (1) baking, (2) grilling, or (3)
boiling and frying.
Write to-day for a free illustrated cata-
logue of these wonder cookers to
Page Manufacturing Co.,
Gheringhap Street, Geelong, Victoria.
tu
comfort
•14 DAYS FREE TRIAL*
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where -you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AN AMAZING ADVANCE takes place
in the Gardening World in the form of
SOILLESS GARDENS'
Elimination of Plant Diseases; Earlier Planting;
Increased Yields; Much Higher Prices Obtained;
Exceptional Profits from Out-of-Season Crops;
100 per cent. Germination of S'eeds ; Less Labour;
No Digging, Weeding or Hoeing; Increased Colour,
Size and Perfume of Flowers; Larger and Better
Flavoured Vegetables.
The Chemical Garden grows EVERYTHING to
perfection from Potatoes to Choicest Bulbs!
We supply the latest American FORMULAS and
PROCESSES for the Soilless Growth of Plants,
including exhaustive details as to preparation of
Tanks, Planting, Supports, Complete Chemical
Formulas and a wealth of invaluable information
dealing with every aspect of this revolutionary
new money-making method.
Price 5/- Complete (Post Free), N.S.W. SEED
CO., 17a Pitt Street. Sydney,
MEMQR ,s Uh EASE
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Make your brain accurate, creative,
dynamic. Handle men and affairs.
Reconstruct yourself for efficiency
with the Leeds Method.
Booklet Free. Write—
Rev. W. Rowlands, 12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Melbourne.
G?55l
r 5
C=3
This MODERN DESIGN 15-jewel Swiss
TITUS Gent’s (or Eady’s) Wristlet Wateh.
It has RADIUM dial, polished chrome and
stainless steel case and carries written
guarantee. DON’T SEND MONEY —pay
only 50/- on delivery (in Gold-filled Case,
SO/-). Write for particulars of other models.
LENNOX ADVERTISING SERVICE,
Grace Building, 77 York Street, SYDNEY'.
c
"Winchester
TWIN-SERVICE
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-Cell, 1500 ft.
Range
35/-
3-cell, 350 ft. or /
Range ....
Complete with Batteries.
COWLES & DUNN,
n KING ST., SYDNEY.
Good, #
Sent
C.O.D
desired.
The “Ideal” Cigarette-making: Machine and
Combination Tobacco Box. Usual Price, 6/6.
“Bulletin” Readers 3/9
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal sample of
“Uevysown” Quality Tobacco at 7/- lb.—
worth 10/- lb.—for Cigarette or Pipe.
“Zig-Zag” Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 doz.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for 17/6 Honest Value, 30/-
Sol Levy, Tobacconist. Est. 39 Years.
713 George Street, Sydney.
ss
A NEW WOODEN LOCK
PUZZLE
Al «»ys Popular. Ingeniously Constructed!
and fitted. These Wooden Puzzles make!
good entertainment and patience
1 nduding solution.
Price, only One~shilling. post free. \
{UNION MANUFACTURING lie AGENCY COMPANY!
1 299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Cl. )
fhe Utnaco Cigarette Roller
Obtainable omy from
makes three in one minute,
large or small, hard or softs
S, You can make 100 just as you
like them, with just the to-
bacco you prefer, at the cost
of 50 machine-made. Roller
takes no more room than a
pencil in your pocket. Price
SEVEN PENCE, posted any*
where, with full directions.
Two for One Shilling.
The Union Co., 299 Elizabeth St., Melb
OIL HEAT
BATH HEATER
Burning .F ue 1
Oil, the Cheapest
Fuel known.
A Hot Bath tor
a third of a
penny.
Catalogue Free.,
Sands’ “Handi”
Bumpless Iron.
Lamps of All
Kinds.
a
T. W. SANDS
387 LONSDALE ST., MELBOURNE
Here’s a Novel
Xmas Gift
A Flower Secateur which cuts
and holds stem of any flower,
13/6 each.
Posted Free for Cash.
Post one to your friend.
W.JNO. BAKER
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
PTW
gp! ■mlm
wi
M<:
k«|
STOP!
Your worst fence-
breakers cured of
the habit in a few
minutes and a
single Wire fence
made absolutely
stockproof with a
BIG SIX
Electric Fence Charger
Over 40,000 in use. Saves 80% on fencing costs
and will last a lifetime.
Illustrated descriptive leaflet FREE.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE COMPANY,
189 Clarence Street. Sydney.
DEAF?
New Invention—The NATURTON
—for natural hearing.
Excellent results—head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries.
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW !
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. He G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Building's, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
The Great western saddle
75/- BARE
{Mounts 10/- extra.)
A splendidly - made
saddle into which the
best workmanship and
materials have gone.
Note the deep channel
illustrated in the sec-
tional drawing. This
enables a cool draught
of air to pass along
the horse’s back.
Freight Free in N.S.W.
Write for FREE
Saddlery Catalogue.
tu
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
18-20 WILSON ST., NEWTOWN, N.S.VV.
TARZAN’S GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
and parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
£
a?
yin
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tarzan’s Grip Manufacturing
Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Willoughby Road,
Willoughby, Sydney.
ALL STORES, 1/-
THE IMPROVED
TREASURE COT
keep your baby
in the fresh air,
always free from
mosquitoes, flies,
etc. Pays for it-
self in peace of
mind every week.
Constructed of
steel tubing and
is everlasting.
of
TREASURE COTS,
3 Jabez Street, Marrickville, N.S.W.
’Phone: LM4794.
w
m
Crushes ice,
medium and coarse.
Working parts of
Stainless Steel.
Ideal for Hotels,
Hospitals, Cafes,
Modern Homes.
Price (post free),
49/6
AMPL/ON(ASIA) PTY. LTD,
362 KENT STREET SYDNEY
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEK'S ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
\l.
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
1 enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
address
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterson.
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra). '
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers. q
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the (TV
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage .ri "
sd. extra). -
&
'6 1
c#
G°
*.o e ,
,»s®V
ill' 4f^ 9
0
a?
••' 4)o^
.**
, < v cV v 0
"M >
•• ..••• 0 f WS'fV'


««8§!1
* 1
MuUaSi
Models 61 and 62
Two new Models of the Milliard Series Model 61
(A.C. Electric Mains) and Model 62 (Battery-operated).
They give you Australian Broadcast and Oversea
Short Wave with surprising clarity and beauty o
tone. The Cabinet is of rich and beautiful design in
figured walnut Bakelite one-piece mould. Dimensions,
20|in. x 13iin. x Sin. The Dial has large-size Verti-
scale with horizontal pointer, introducing a new vogue
in Station markings. This novel Milliard Dial gives
you the actual place-names from which the Austra-
lasian broadcasts emanate, together with extra large
Callsigns for all the principal Stations.
Equipped with Volume, Tone and Tuning Controls,
Wave-change Switch, Rola Dynamic Speaker, etc.
Prices —*
Mullard Luxury Model 61 (A.C. Mains) 21 Gns.
Mullard Luxury Model 62 (B att e r y « »
Operation) • • • • • •
Mullard Luxury Model 62 (Vibrator .
Powered) ' jns *
Still more Radio to the £
Milliard
now offers these Outstanding Models
The public expect more value for money . . . Mullard gives it to them.
The public demand first-class performance, power and beauty from
low-priced sets that were once possible only with radio twice the price
. . . MULLARD GIVES IT TO THEM.
You only want to see and hear Mullard Radio to appreciate the
sterling qualities of Broadcast and Short-wave performance at its
highest. Mullards bring you the world’s best programmes, crystal clear
in tone, with ample power and amazing selectivity. Their range offers a
choice of models of exquisite exterior beauty and internal reliability. In
short, Mullard gives you still more Radio to the £.
MULLARD MODEL 43A
Graceful, modern to the moment, moulded one-piece Cabinet in a new style and
design. Extended wave-bands conform with 1940 standards. Clear vision Verti-
scale with straight-line Condenser gives equal separation of all Stations. Equipped
with the latest types Mullard Master Radiovalves. Glorious tonal quality, superb
selectivity and sensitivity, plus fully compensating A.V.C. Dimensions: 15|in. x
9|in. x 7in.
Price 14 gns.
The New ... Amazing
MULLARDETTE COMPACT RADIO
Model 42.—You wouldn’t credit how such BIG performance could come from such
a little Radio ... It is only 1 Oin. long, 6-|in. high, and sin. deep, but how it will
entertain you is AMAZING.
The Cabinet is of moulded Zonite, designed to please the most fastidious taste. Burr
walnut is the standard colour, but it is also obtainable in Ivory and Jade Green
(£1 extra). The dial includes Station Callsigns separated into State Zones.
Operates on 200/260 volts A.C. Equipped latest type Octal base Mullard Master
Valves Price 12 gns.
A model to suit every family requirement.
SNOW QUEEN Elect. Refrigerators
These Emmco products embody every improvement in modern refrigeration. Com-
pare them for price, efficiency and storage capacity, and you will be convinced
that SNOW QUEEN offer you the best values in Refrigerators available.
Prices range from £52/10/-. Easy terms available.
PRINCESS ELECTRIC WASHERS
The advanced designs, beauty and finish, and sturdy mechanical qualities of the
Princess range have made them first favourites among thousands of Australian users.
Prices of these efficient washers are definitely within reach of the most modest
home budget. Full details on request.
Wholesale Distributors for N.S.W.
LLARD MODEL 43A
MuD<urii
■
■
LS:
Mullardette Model 42
EASY TERMS AVAILABLE.
Warranty: All Sets are covered by the comprehensive
Milliard Guarantee for a period of twelve months.
BLOCH & GERBER LTD
WITH WHICH IS ASSOCIATED
THE WELDON ELECTRIC SUPPLY CO.
46-48 YORK STREET, SYDNEY -phones: masz?! mo lines)
