

✓
Si
!MM :
K''c4'
•SET
Rsau
lAS?§|§
EKG
WO
es .... SO® 1
WMM
mfillnh.** ftt%!
«• ;• ■«.>a&jsfw •>"*“■"“
TM o
.EA&
m\s
S&» ce ‘
° x *
fe? ett ft» v °
i e a&■ * VYv e
, eS y»VtV V e^' ve - tA
d> ft Y dt°^
« VVe luO°-
A '® S UC^ &
&u
l e <o*° tv© e^
W* *W** e
tVve t voo, w
10 \ l c** Vc *k
\V\xVe*
w
The Bulletin
In 1929 and 1939
Vol. 60.—N0. 3117.
Wednesday, November 8, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY
CATALOGUE is now ready and
will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story
Writing
at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 339
The Red Page
CITY OF REVOLUTIONS.
In Finnegan’s Wake James Joyce tried
to present the turbulent history of Dublin
as an image of the vast tragi-comedy of
mankind. Without Joyce’s depth, but
without his obscurity and with power and
humor, Henry Bidou in his Paris (Cape ;
Angus and Robertson) has almost
achieved what Joyce failed to do. Paris
is purely a history, but Bidou’s imagina-
tion is the imagination of an epic poet;
the city is an entity to him, and its
story, a mingling of the Homeric and the
Rabelaisian, is magnificent.
He has avoided topical allusions,
though the temptation must have been
strong: there were Germanic invasions
in a.d. 258, 273 and 275, and Attila the
Hun, skirting the city in the middle of
the fifth century, threw it into panic.
There was Napoleon’s statement, so
strikingly reminiscent of Hitler’s passion
for rebuilding Berlin: “If I were master
of France I would make Paris not only
the loveliest city that is, or that ever
had been, but the loveliest that ever
could be.” There was the Franco-
Prussian war, a starving Paris under
siege, and then the Parisians hooting and
jeering at the German troops as they
marched up the Rue de Rivoli.
Towards the end of the story, merely
an episode in the long record of violence,
he recalls the shelling of Paris during
the Great War: “Nor have we forgot-
ten the terrible disaster caused by that
long-range gun. It was Good Friday,
and a crowded congregation in St. Ger-
vais were listening to a concert of Pales-
trina’s music when a shell hit ope of the
pillars, bringing the roof down on the
people’s heads. The deathroll numbered
165.” His picture of a 1914 “blackout”
would serve to-day:
But this darkened Paris had some beauties
hitherto unsuspected. On a fine moonlight
night the Champs-Elysees, flooded with blue-
grey sheen, seemed like a hallowed wood.
The Seine, a silvery flood, gliding between its
shadowy quays, took on a strange beauty.
Into the sky the searchlights stretched out
their feelers, now chasing one another,
now coming together, balancing a luminous
cloud on their golden spears.
Bidou’s first sentence is “A floor of
chalk; that is what Paris stands upon.”
He goes to the Ice Age and the subsequent
battles between sea and land to give the
geological drama that preceded the animal
and human. Then the gazelle-like Xipho-
don grazes over the pastures. Historical
times, and the Xiphodon gives place to
Julius Ctesar. Bidou must have trans-
lated this section very literally from the
Latin: here’s exactly the schoolboy’s
version of Ccesar’s Gallic War: “Camulo-
genus, having got wind of what was afoot,
went and awaited the Romans in the
Plain de Grenelle. A skilful manoeuvre
on the part of the legionaries, however,
decided the battle, which ended in the
wholesale massacre of the Gauls.”
In the fourteenth century Paris is
Paris; a murderer takes refuge in a
church, the Dauphin orders the doors to
be broken open, drags him to the scene
of the crime to have his hand cut off
and thence to the gallows ; then there’s
a revolution, somewhat complicated by
the war with the English. From then
right until 1934, when there is a riot that
leads Bidou to comment “It is sheer folly
for the Government to allow demonstra-
tions in the Place de la Concorde at all,”
Paris is never at rest.
A taxgatherer killed in 1382, an anti-
Jewish riot; the massacre of the Arrnag-
nacs as a reproof for losing Agincourt
—“there was not a street in which you
did not come across a corpse every
hundred paces” ; the Chambre Ardente
and" the burning of heretics in 1549 ; St.
Bartholomew’s Eve and “Paris like a city
that had been taken by storm”; rumors
of cannibalism when Henri IV. besieged
the city; Anne of Austria shrieking that
revolution was impossible when the mob
was stoning her guards in 1648; theatre
riots in Moliere’s day—the members of the
King’s household, deprived of their free
passes, held up by the theatre doorkeeper
until “mad with rage, infuriated at his
resistance, they ran him through again
and again, each of them giving him a
sword thrust as he went in” ; 1789, and
the mob working in shifts to demolish the
Bastille ; the Terror, and the horror of the
decent citizens at the sinister procession
of the tumbrils; Napoleon, the Second
Empire, qnd ten years of constant turmoil.
Each scene of this long drama is pre-
sented as it affected the citi-
zens ; the book is packed
with anecdotes. Moliere,
Casanova, Victor Hugo,
Balzac and Zola appear in
their turn, and Bidou quotes
from their writings to depict the changing
city. It is the whole life-story of Paris;
“the trumpet blare of history and the
ceaseless tide of everyday affairs,” as
Bidou sums it up, in a city where the
trumpets have blared louder and the tides
run stronger than anywhere else in the
world.
Woodrow Wilson's Wife.
The Memoirs of Mrs. Woodrow Wilson
(Putnam) is so good as a human
document, the story of a woman who
married the President of the United
States and found herself the wife
of one of the most important figures
on a European stage that was a
galaxy of notabilities, that it is a pity
to approach it from the political view-
point. Because it’s impossible not to do
so, the book is disappointing: but any-
one looking for flowers, jewels, royalties
and a judicious account of the President
at home will be delighted with it.
First item of domestic interest is that
when they married, with many misgivings
on her part, she was a widow and he a
widower ; he was in his first year of office
and the courtship was somewhat ham-
pered by the fact that wherever he went
he was followed by half a dozen secret
service men. When he called on her
her colored maid used to announce
proudly, “The President and his Silver
Service.”
The anecdote is typical. Henry Ford
comes to lunch, and “with the naivete of
a little boy” turns out his pockets to
show them his collection of very thin
watches. She and the President, on a
yachting holiday, call at an island where
the simple inhabitants hide in their cot-
tages, imagining that it is a German in-
vasion. A mayor at a public function
apologises for the absence of his wife, ex-
plaining that he had heard the platform
was to be blown up with a bomb and
didn’t care to risk her life.
In Europe after the war the Princess
Royal and Queen Maud of Norway, in-
troduced to her as Victoria and Maud,
beseech her for her autograph while her
husband does his best to conduct a con-
versation with Queen Alexandra, then
very deaf. They are to dine at Bucking-
ham Palace, and she wonders whether
or not to wear gloves; Sir Charles Cust,
the King’s equerry, dashes off to inquire
and comes back with the information,
“Her Majesty will not wear gloves, but
she and Princess Mary will carry a new
pair with the string still keeping them
together, held with fingers up, in their
left hands.” Margot Asquith, “smoking
one cigarette after another, striking the
matches on her own anatomy,” sniffs at
her. The deaf Duke of Genoa, when
an American woman at a dinner in Rome
tells him she is glad to have the oppor-
tunity of meeting Marconi, replies, “Yes,
there are more tunnels in it than any
other in the world, eighteen between here
and Paris, I am told.”
Mrs. Wilson sees the Peace Conference
through the same very feminine eyes,
though her snapshots of Wilson and the
fragments of his conversation she records
are not without value. She is bitter
against Colonel House, who, she says,
during Wilson’s temporary absence in
America, gave away ground that he had
won. Lloyd George and Clemenceau, she
alleges, took advantage of Wilson’s ill-
ness in Paris to shape the negotiations
the way they wanted them. Nevertheless,
when it was all over, she records Wilson
as saying to her, “Well, little girl, it is
finished, and, as no one is satisfied, it
makes me hope we have made a just
peace; but it is all on the lap of the
gods.”
Wilson’s deep sincerity is obvious from
her portrait of him. His tour of the
States to whip up popular opinion to
force the Legislature to approve the Ver-
sailles Treaty broke him in health.
Equally obvious is the President’s remote-
ness ; if his conversations with her are
correctly reported, and there is every
reason for believing they are, he was a
man lost among ideals and phrases.
Australian Naturalist.
“A rambling chronicle you will say,”
Charles Barrett pauses in mid-flight to
comment in his very rambling chronicle,
Koonwarra (Oxford University Press).
He brings out his license: “But have I
not a rambler’s freedom to go anywhere ;
to leave the highway and follow any track
that lures?” And away he goes again.
He is turning over his diaries, letters
and recollections of 30 years or- more
of his naturalist wanderings and adven-
tures in the coastal bush, out on the
Nullarbor, across the Centre and the
North, and in boats round Bass Strait
and Barrier islands.
The title is Victorian abo. for the
black swan, but the book is only briefly
about black swans. The author hasn’t
been talking about them long before he
switches off to enjoy the spectacle of a
Harvard University professor being stung
by bull-ants. On the opposite page he
watches poaching fishermen going after
Murray cod and golden perch with for-
bidden drum-nets. He makes even more
remarkable leaps; by way of example,
one chapter, entitled “To the Tropics”:
First sentence, Tumbulgum, Tweed
River (N.S.W.); before the chapter is
done places leapt on to include Papua
and N.Q., for talk of white-tailed king-
fishers, parrots and termites’ nests ; Wallis
Lake (N.S.W.), the orange and black
plumage of the regent bower-bird seen
as he breakfasts on wild raspberries,
“no lovelier bird in New South Wales”;
also at Wallis Lake, snakes, orchids and
sea-eagles; the Murray; Egypt, Sinai
and Palestine as a Digger; Dunk Island ;
Canberra, rambling through the gum-tree
paddocks with the Commonwealth his-
torian, out to Duntroon, and into the
Institute of Anatomy for a close in-
spection of Burrell’s platypus collection ;
Gippsland (Vic.), platypus; a thought
for gipsies, who are “fond of roast
hedgehogs”; Bulahdelah (N.S.W.),
orchids and echidna ; Sydney and Mel-
bourne ; Tasmania and N.Z.; Tom
Ugly’s Point (N.S.W.), with reference to
the ancient parrot who used to reside
there ; Melbourne Town Hall, to judge
a talking-birds contest, “A corella should
have been arrested for using bad language
in a public place: he belonged to a
seaman once, they said, but I fancy it
was a publican”; Adelaide, for a cockatoo
that played football; Dargo (Vic.), for
lizards, one of them presented to Dr. F.
Wood Jones, “who was pleased to have
such ‘a remarkable beast.’ ”
The fact that in this chapter entitled
“To the Tropics” the author doesn’t get
anywhere near the tropics except for the
one or two incidental references is of
no other importance except that it’s
typical. He gets to the tropics all right
later on. Meanwhile, the chapter, with
the book as a whole, is as engaging as
the range of the author’s interests sug-
gests. His guide in his preference to
“follow any track that lures” is associa-
tion of ideas: Cherry Kearton, the nature
photographer, leads to Sherbrooke (Vic.),
which leads to the lyrebird, which leads
to Lotte Lehmann but also to the platy-
pus, which leads to Victorian forest
giants, and all these lead to hunting salt-
lake tiger-beetles, and, naturally, tiger-
snakes, death adders, koalas, the giant
earthworm, and countless other remark-
able beasties.
His human specimens include such
assorted items (from first-hand observa-
tion) as Shackleton, Amundsen, E. J.
Banfield, C. J. Dennis, lon Idriess, Frank
Bullen, H. C. Dannevig, and many more,
including numerous Australians at large
encountered on his wanderings, among
them:
Joe the cook met so many friends at the
bar he became jolly; then morose and
quarrelsome. Towards midnight he re-
turned to camp, got out a pocket torch,
and fumbled at the tucker-box. Suddenly
a yell and a crash of tins. His eyes spark-
ling wrath, Joe stumbled to where I was
sitting on an upturned box.
“I’ll tell the mob!” he roared, with a
string of strange oaths. “You bug-
hunter. Did you put that blanky snake
in the tea-tin, or didn’t you? I’ll tell the
whole blinking mob!”
The author’s entire Australian scene is as
authentic as that bit of Australian idiom.
Dissected Actor.
The leading character in March Cost’s
The Dark Star (Collins) has points in
common with the actor portrayed by lan
Keith in the Ferber-Kaufman play at
Sydney Minerva. He is a foremost actor
who has had his career ruined and has
taken to the bottle. But this author is
above the easy business of having a fling
at futility. Part of his novel’s nicely-
constructed pattern is the showing of
strong character at grips with testing
circumstances- success and adversity
both. His Eden Loring is no conven-
tional fafade, like the F.-K. conception,
but a keenly portrayed significant figure.
When the story opens the bout with
the bottle is, in fact, over. By drastic
measures Loring has cured himself; he
is aboard ship on the way from Aus-
tralia to London after a year’s wandering.
An accomplished craftsman and vigorous
writer, the author from this point uses
the flashback method of narration so
smoothly that it seems the inevitable one
for his purpose. The first half of the
novel is Loring’s life from childhood up
to 42, vividly recalled to him by news
that the woman who has been his dual
star through most of it has been seriously
hurt in an accident.
He had found her in an old-rag shop,
a violent, impulsive, odd little creature;
his mother had part-adopted her; he
had trained her; they had been dual stars
on the London stage in Shakspearean
plays; the war, for which he had
enlisted, had ruined his career and just
about ruined himself personally; then,
giving him the choice of a dipsomaniac's
suicide or a powerful effort of will, his
uncle had left him a fortune. He had
taken his choice, had cured himself, pro-
posed to establish a dramatic theatre in
London, was now on his way there, with
the article of faith that had sustained him
throughout at last clearly formulated.
As a dark and powerful undercurrent
runs the theme of the steadily increasing
mutual attraction of the dual stars.
The second half of the novel has the
other party to that duality as central
figure. Through the illness after her
accident, which included injury to her
head, she also remembers, but in her
case the thought current is rather a flow-
ing out towards him than a flowing back
through self. Like his remembering, her
delirium leads up to the same point—
their eventual meeting, with the distrac-
tions that have hitherto come in the way
of their complete mutual accord at last
finally subdued. She steals out of the
hospital and is waiting on the wharf in
the morning-dark when his ship berths
at Liverpool.
The first half of the novel is easily its
strongest part. Away from the vital
character of Loring the author weakens.
Nevertheless he sees it through, main-
taining his tensely compressed narrative
on a plane of creative effort that lifts
it out of the ordinary fiction rut. The
dialogue all has an odd effect of being
bad-tempered, when what the author is
trying to convey is something entirely
different the frank, direct, critical
honesty of the characters towards one
another. Through Loring’s mostly fierce
tutoring of his dual star in the dramatic
art the author works up an all-pervading
authentic atmosphere of theatre, and also
works in a fair amount of good Shaks-
pearean criticism.
Genetics .
About half-way through last century
that shrewd Augustinian monk Gregor
Mendel, while pottering about in his
garden near Briinn, discovered the basic
laws of heredity. The thing was achieved
by the breeding and cross-breeding of
yellow and green peas, tall-stemmed and
short. He sent copies of his paper on
the matter to all the scientific bigwigs
of the time. If they had read it, or
thought about it, the facts of heredity
would have become common knowledge
in 1866. But Mendel was forgotten until
the year 1900.
Then, very oddly, three men redis-
covered him. The experiments on peas
could be repeated with certainty on
animals; do this or that in crossing black
rabbits with white, and in mating the
offspring, and you get black or white
rabbits with the precision of a conjuring
trick. From these beginnings arose the
whole body of knowledge on which
modern stockbreeding and the produc-
tion of new and useful plants depend.
All these later developments are fully
described by C. H. Waddington, Fellow
of Christ’s College, Cambridge, in his
An Introduction to Modern Genetics
(Allen and Unwin). The author leaves
nothing to be said about the modern
concepts of the wonderful and compli-
cated mechanisms of cell-division, with
its nuclei, genes and chromosomes ; and
discusses the bearing of genetics upon
the future of our race.
It is no book for the amateur reader,
anxious to learn a little of the subject
for the first time. It presupposes a sound
knowledge of biology; it has a new
vocabulary of its own (consider such
terms as “plus-minus variations,” “mul-
tiple allelomorphs” and “phenotypic sex
determination”). Apart from that, the
student of the subject requires no small
mathematical equipment. Some of
Waddington’s pages read like an inter-
change of chatty letters between Einstein
and the late Lord Rutherford.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” and in every act.
'THE SENIOR STORE
A
\
PORT
it
$6
>
1
m
&
' j
-
W •
7
/>A V '
X
9
\
W
: X;. .
WWm
IV l >.A
Jg.
3
/%
* \
lt
A
X-
«
1111
m
s :■
m
-
m
mm
Z
a
0
y
W
\
/
£
1
rt
w
ROYAL ENFIELD CYCLES
The Royal Enfield is one of the finest cycles
on the road (made like a gun). Frame of best
quality Weldless Steel Tubing. 28 x If
English Dunlop Tyres. Eadie Coaster Hub
which includes free wheel and back pedalling
brake. All bright parts and rims chromium
plated. Complete with tools, tool bag, infla-
tor, reflector and bell.
At Anthony Horderns' £B/10/-
Lady's Model Royal Enfield, as at top, with
Eadie Coaster. At Anthony Horderns', £B/19/6
Lady's special Royal Enfield Sports Model
fitted with free wheel clutch and two side
pull brakes, or Eadie Coaster £9/15/-
Rope Quoits, steam tarred, steel wire centres. Set
of six complete with board and peg. At Anthony
Horderns', set 6/6
With extra strong wire bound quoits, board and
peg. At Anthony Horderns', set 7/9
O Sports Materials —Lower Ground Floor—Pitt Street. Delivered free only within
our delivery area.
CONGENIAL INDOOR PASTIME
BILLIARD TABLE TOPS
7ft.x3ft.6in. Frame strongly built
and braced to take composition
base. Polished brass pocket
frames with leather buffers, green
cloth. Complete with two Ash
Cues, set of composition Balls,
and Score Board. Price, £B/10/-
Smaller size, 6ft.x3ft. £7/19/6
Batinton Outdoor Games
Compendium of six games, com-
prising Batinton Floor or Ground
Tennis, Quoit Tennis, Wobble
Ball, Volley Ball, and Dodgem.
Complete with poles, etc. Illus-
trated instructions in box. Price,
per set £2/9/6
ENGLISH AIR BEDS
The famous English Sportabed
Air Bed made of light waterproof
fabric. Folds to small flat parcel.
Easy to inflate. Luxurious com-
fort on land or water, in camp,
on lawn or verandah.
English Air Bed, 7ft 35/-
English Air Bed, 6ft. 29/6
Australian extra tough material,
with detachable pillow. 7ft. 42/6
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
BOX 2172 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY FAMOUS LOW PRICES 'PHONE M 2401—DAY AND NIGHT


WEIGHTS RIGHT
By A.E. HEADLEY
ILLUSTRATED BY SHELLEY.
I REMEMBER, when Bucksy first came to Sturr’s
stables. We had just floated a couple of the
horses back from one of the mid-week meetings,
and Sturr was not particularly amiable. There was
a short head that had stopped him from winning a
packet, and to cap it a thing he was getting set for a
certain race had struck itself and looked like having
to go out for a spell. It was one of those things that
can happen in racing, and it happened the day Bucksy
stood there twisting his cap and telling Sturr that he
would like to be apprenticed to be a jockey.
You couldn’t blame Sturr when he told him to
go to hell. After all there are hundreds of kids snoop-
ing around with the idea that it is only a matter of
weight, and because they go only six stone three
they’re all set to sit on a horse and count their income
in thousands.
But somehow Bucksy seemed different. I liked the
clean look of him. It’s funny how so many of the
kids that want to be jockeys look as though they have
been sired by a rat. They look the kind that have
stunted their growth by smoking too many cigarettes.
But Bucksy wasn’t like that. His face was wide and
a little flat and it had flesh to it. He stood there a
moment after Sturr had told him, and you could see
his bottom lip take a dive towards his shoes.
“Listen, Sturr,” I said, “why don’t you give the
kid a chance? He might be another Jimmy Pike.”
“I wouldn’t give a damn,” said Sturr, “if he was
half a dozen Jimmy Pikes. I’m just about fed up
with all the two-foot-four infants who want to get their
pictures in the papers.” He looked at me. “And I’m
getting sick of urgers hanging around the stables.”
I took a look round for Bucksy ; he was half-
way to the way out, and I caught him up.
“Listen, son,” I said, “can you ride?”
Bucksy looked a little startled. “I’ve ridden five
winners and two seconds out of ten rides at picnic
meetings, and they didn’t all start favorite.”
He was proud of that; you could see it staring
out of him, and the way he said they didn’t all start
favorite.
“Listen, son,” I said, “I know a few people in the
game, and if you’ll give me your address I might be
able to do something for you.”
He started to say something, and then he stopped.
“I wouldn’t like you to go to no trouble, mister,”
he said ; “couldn’t I come and see you instead? I
could come and see you any time you said, and you
wouldn’t have to waste money on stamps, and I might
be moving soon.” It poured out of him in a rush.
“Which park are you sleeping in?” I asked.
He told me then. He had come down to the citv
with a tenner and an ambition. The tenner was gone,
and the ambition was becoming a trifle dented from
meeting people like Sturr. I pulled ten bob out of my
pocket, thinking that I could just as easily have lost it
on the favorite in the last race, and told him to come
round and see me in the morning.
“I still got money,” he said, “and I’ve been used
to sleeping out, but I’ll be there in the morning.”
AFTER I let Jim Crow take a look at him it wasn’t
long before Bucksy was riding races. I’ll never
forget his first winner, and I’ll bet Sturr didn't forget
it for a long while, either.
Sturr had a thing entered. I’d got the office, and
was going in pounds, shillings and pence. I had
ways of finding out about Sturr’s horses that didn’t
have anything to do with Sturr. But when I told
Bucksy about it he grinned.
“Smacker,” he said, “this is the first race I’ve
rode in against any of Sturr’s horses. 1 m riding a
thing called Geranium. Geranium will win.”
“But he’s had this thing bottled up for the race.”
“It might run second,” said Bucksy.
So against my better judgment I backed
Geranium. It was a mile and a quarter trial, and
Geranium had never won over a mile.
They were slapping it on Sturr’s candidate, and at
the close of the betting they were calling sevens bar one.
Now if there’s one kind of horse I don’t like
carrying my money it’s a front-runner, and at the
mile Bucksy had Geranium out six lengths. I was
wishing that my money was on Sturr’s horse, who was
moving along nicely in third place. At the half-mile
they were starting to catch Geranium, and he was
clear only four lengths. At the two Sturr’s fancy had
moved into second place two lengths away, and I
was just waiting for it to draw level. Then suddenly
I was yelling for Geranium. At the turn Bucksy gave
her a kick, and she started to move as though the
race had just started. In a few strides she was six
lengths in front, and when she went past the post the
judge said it was ten lengths. Through the glasses I
could see the grin all over Bucksy’s face.
THAT was Bucksy’s first win, but it wasn’t his last.
In three years he was riding so well that the
sports writers were remembering that they’d said he
was going to be a champion three years before. He
had a seat and hands, and a way of nursing a horse
to the top of the straight. You could tell how good
he was by the poor totes his horses paid. The women
were toting Bucksy, and that’s as close to popularity
as any jockey ever gets.
You’d think that that kind of thing was enough
to put Bucksy right on top of the world. He was
making good dough, and everything should have been
rosy, but one day I came on him sitting on a box
behind the stables and looking as though he had just
landed a six months’ suspension.
“Smacker,” he said when I asked him about it,
“I’ve got big feet, and big feet in a jockey is a sign of
going to weight. I’ve put on three pound in a month.”
“You’ve got nothing to worry about,” I told Bucksy,
“No,” said Bucksy, “I’ve got nothing to worry
about. I’ve been doing roadwork, dieting and taking
the baths, and I’ve put on three pound in a month.
I’m training to be a heavyweight boxer.”
“Forget it,” I said. “What have you got to
worry about? You’ve got the ride on Toboggan in the
Epsom, and the way I see it is that the numbers are
up already.”
Bucksy brightened a little. “Don’t be off it,
Smacker. At those weights it’s a certainty. It’s money
in the bank.”
EVEN when you’ve been with horses all your life
you’ll find something different about Randwick
on Epsom day. There’s the colors and the crowd,
and people who’ll never see a racetrack for another
year. It’s like all the excitement in the world being
penned into those stands and lawns. On the flat
you can see them ten deep around the fence. And
down there on the track are the few horses that all
the excitement is about.
I started the day well by having got the drum
about one that had been bottled up for the second
race, and you could write your own ticket about it
before the money came. There was an inquiry into its
running, but the stewards didn’t find anything except
that it had been genuinely backed at its other starts,
and they couldn’t say anything about bets with strings
on them because it was too hard to get any proof.
Not that it worried me. I had a roll of notes
in my pocket that Mosstrooper couldn’t have jumped
over. It was the kind of stake I wanted for Toboggan,
and all that was needed now was for Bucksy to kick
it home. I had my mind on a filly that I could pick
up for a hundred guineas.
After the Derby I went to have a look at the
board. Bucksy’s name was up against Toboggan, and
on the board it was written that he had declared two
pounds overweight. I began thinking that maybe
he did have something to worry about, but I was
too busy placing my bets to think much about it then.
I got sixes for my money in most places, and an
occasional seven, but all I could seem to hear when
the horses were moving round to the post was that
Toboggan was laid.
By the time I fought my way to the top of the
Leger stand the horses were lining up at the barrier,
and I fixed my glasses on Bucksy. He looked smart
and clean in his silks. Then suddenly the barrier
skipped up, and Bucksy was scrubbing Toboggan along
to stay with the front bunch.
He is sticking to the rails, just in behind, and
not covering any more ground than he can help. At
the four-furlong post there are only two horses in
front of him, and turning for home he shoots Toboggan
up on the inside of them. I can see the three horses
all working together for a few strides, and then I
can see the extra little bit as Toboggan edges up past
them. In front of the Leger it doesn’t look as though
anything can catch him. On the outside I was watch-
ing the finishers. They were picking up ground, but
the post was so close that I didn’t have to look for
the numbers. I grabbed my tickets and started
shoving my way down to the ring, and all the time
I was thinking about the yearling filly.
BUT the next time I saw Bucksy he still had the
miseries. “I’m up a pound,” he said, “and I’ve
been engaged to ride Handbook in all his engage-
ments. But I can’t make the seven-seven he’s got in
the Summer Cup.”
Later I read in the papers that Andy Storey
was on Handbook and Bucksy had the mount
on one of the highweight plodders. But I had other
things to worry me now. I had a one-horse stable
and I had taken out a license to train. I had named
the little filly Sugar, and I had it looking
iike the best horse in any maiden field I could think
of. But I did notice that the rides were thinning out
for Bucksy, and that he was not winning his share of
them. Handbook won the Summer Cup and Bucksy.
had a bus-ride on a plodder about half a furlong back.
It seemed to be the season for the lightweights.
Then I had some trouble with Sugar’s near front
leg, and it was four months or so before I saw
Bucksy again.
I met him in the paddock at Rosebery looking
as prosperous as ever. He had his hands full of
betting tickets, and it was the first time I had ever
seen him take this kind of interest in a horserace.
“Bugle Blast,” he said. “Don’t be off it.”
I took fifty pounds to ten, and came back to
Bucksy.
“Bucksy,” I said, “there are horses out there and
they need jockeys, and I was wondering”
“Weight,” said Bucksy. “I’m eight stone three,
and I don’t like riding in hurdle events. I’m doing
a little punting, and I’m doing it right.”
We went down to the fence to see the race, and
Bugle Blast was beaten half a head. All Bucksy did
was tear up his tickets and tell me he had one in the
next. It looked like he was developing into one of
those mug punters with a bet in every race. I felt sorry
for Bucksy.
It was two or three years before I saw him again
to speak to. Things had been coming pretty good for
me. I had three horses, and that was chiefly owing to
Sugar racing so well. I was walking her around the
yard till she cooled off when Bucksy lifted the gate
open enough to squeeze in. He walked round Sugar
before he said anything.
“She’s got the looks, Smacker,” he said.
“Bucksy,” I said, “I’ve been wondering what’s
happened to you.”
“I’ve been wondering the same thing myself,
said Bucksy. “I think the answer is I’m broke.”
“If it’s a few quid,” I said.
“In the first place,” said Bucksy, “it is. In the
second I’d like to get back into the game. I
haven’t done any riding since I came out of my time,
and if you’ve got anything racing about eight-six I’d
like it.”
“I haven’t got any champions,” I said, “and I
don’t often let the handicapper see enough form to
give them weight, but I’ve got Sugar entered in the
Hundred with eight stone, and if you can make it the
ride is yours.”
Bucksy flattened his lips. “I couldn’t make within
coo-ee of it. I can hardly take off a couple of pounds.”
At the back of my mind I was thinking of the
midden heap. I knew it was tough, but there isn t
anything better for taking off weight. It was the way
the old-timers used, and if Bucksy wanted to stay in
the game he couldn’t stay at eight-six.
“Midden!” said. Bucksy when I mentioned it;
“you’re mad. No one’s been doing that for years.
It’s a killer.”
It’s a killer all right. A little while in the heap
with sweating manure piled around you, and you feel
like it is tearing your guts out. There’s nothing in
it with the midden for heat, but it’s a sure way of
tearing off weight.
“Maybe,” I said, “it’s not nice and pleasant like
sitting around in a towel, but it’s the thing that counts
when you come to scale.” . ■ ,
“Remember Jimmy Carr, said Bucksy ; he used
to leave his weight in the midden, and now he’s in a
sanatorium because he can’t get it back. I’d sooner
ride a hurdler than a hospital bed. I think we’ll
forget it and, talk about the ten quid I’m going to
borrow from you.”
I gave him the tenner, and we started talking
about old times. When I mentioned Toboggan’s Epsom
I could see that he still had the thrill of it in his veins.


“Smacker,” he said, when he was going, “if you
ever need an assistant strapper remember that I’m it.”
“They tell me that Footpad will win a race,” I said.
AS it happened Footpad did win the race and I
didn’t see Bucksy for a long time. I wasn’t
worried about the tenner. I knew that was safe.
But when I did see Bucksy I was surprised at his
appearance. He looked as though he hadn’t had a
good feed in weeks. His cheeks were trying to get
inside the bones of his face, and you had to look
a long way past his nose to see his eyes. It was a
wet day, and he walked into the yard as though it was
an effort to lift the mud on his feet.
“Smacker,” he said, “you can take that tenner out
of my riding fees. I’m down low enough to ride
those candidates for the lion’s den that you call
horses. I’m down to seven-seven.”
He was only a kid and it looked funny to see
the loose, wrinkled flesh on his face. But he was
down to a good riding weight and there were a few
mounts I could give him.
“I’ll be along in the morning to ride work,” he
said, “so that I can get the feel of what it’s like to
have a horse underneath me.”
The next morning he was out on the track, and I
gave him a leg-up on Sugar. I wanted her to do a
smart four, and I told him. It was nice to see how
well she worked for Bucksy. She showed me the
best gallop she had ever done. I mentioned it to
Bucksy when he trotted her back.
“I wish I didn’t have big feet,” said Bucksy; “I’d
be riding something a lot better still.”
“You don’t look as if you’ll have to worry about
your weight for a long time yet,” I said. “And
Sugar isn’t lion’s food, because she ran it in 49.”
He had the ride on Sugar at a Wednesday meeting
and she walked it in. He picked up another ride
on the course and scrubbed home a double. It looked
as though he hadn’t forgotten how to ride, and I was
thinking that he might be on his way back to the top.
It looked as though he had solved the weight problem,
and that seemed to be all that mattered. After that
day he was riding for a while and beginning to pick
up some good mounts. There was hardly a day when
he didn’t kick home a winner. You’d be surprised
how quick it was that the ladies got him back as a
tote favorite, and his name posted against a horse
was enough to drop its price. He was getting in
the money again, and I didn’t see him so often.
I was getting Sugar ready for a fair kind of race,
and with the weight she had been given she had a
fair kind of chance. She was coming along nicely,
and I had the idea that it might be good to have
Bucksy for the ride.
Bucksy was glad to see me, and he was glad to
do the favor. The race was three weeks oif, and
once or twice he came down to the track to give
Sugar a chance of getting properly acquainted. It
began to look as if the race was a set-up. Sugar
did everything right. But I didn’t like the way Bucksy
was looking. He was looking as though bed was the
place for him and not a horse’s back. He was
still riding light, but it was taking the good flesh
off him. I spoke to him about it.
“Smacker,” he said, “it’s weight trouble. I take
it off and it comes back again, and I have to take it
off again. The skin is wearing out on my bones
through rubbing in and out.”
“The baths shouldn’t make you look like that,”
I said.
“The baths don’t,” said Bucksy. “It’s not the
baths. They don’t do me any good. Remember you
told me the way to take weight off. That’s the way
I’m doing it—the midden heap: it’s like drawing a
boil with a bottle.”
I didn’t like to hear Bucksy talking about it. I
know the kind of thing that the midden can do ; it’s
as bad as being a punch-drunk fighter. I had only
been joking when I had mentioned it to Bucksy. I
started thinking about Jimmy Carr in the sanatorium.
Jimmy kept trying to make the weight till the day
an ambulance picked him up in the street. I didn’t
like to think of Bucksy that way.
“Why don’t you give it up?” I said. “It’s not
doing you any good. Why don’t you come in with
me? I could do with a partner. You’ve got some
dough, and we could pick up a couple more horses.
Maybe we won’t make a fortune, but you won’t have
to look like an undernourished skeleton.”
Bucksy scratched his head and grinned. “You’re
a good feller, Smacker. I’d sooner ride your horses
than a tens-on pop in the Melbourne Cup. But I
have my own ideas about retiring from the turf, and
they’ve got nothing to do with nursemaiding horses.
In another six months I’ll have enough dough to call
the odds. And, Smacker, that’s the only reason that
I m back in the saddle except that I like it and that
I’m thinking of getting married.”
T" HE day Bucksy was to ride Sugar we went down
to the course together. I noticed that he was
looking skinnier than ever and as though he wanted
to fall asleep. When I was talking to him he hardly
seemed to be taking any interest. He was like a
sick man. His hands were shaking and his eyes
blinking. I was a bit worried.
I m tired,” said Bucksy ; “I didn’t seem to be
able to get any sleep last night. But you needn’t
worry ; I’ll be all right to kick Sugar past the post
for you, and you’ll be able to clear the mortgage on
the homestead.”
“You’ll be a sick man,” I said, “if you don’t
quit this wasting.”
I m all right. It’s just that I can’t get my sleep.”
“You’ve got a touch,” I said, “of keeping your
weight lower than it should be. Why don’t you think
over that matter of a partnership?”
“Thanks all the same,” said Bucksy, “but I’m
still determined to spend my spare time playing
snooker, and to drive around in a Rolls Royce that a
lot of punters will pay for.”
We didn’t talk about it any more.
I had my glasses on Bucksy at the barrier. He
was leaning over patting Sugar on the neck. She
was standing quiet for him, but you could see that all
she wanted was a chance to show him how good she
was. She was kind of toed up and ready to jump.
There was a bit of trouble with one of the horses on
the outside, but soon they were right and the barrier
snapped up.
Bucksy has Sugar moving with the leaders and
going well. At the six he has her a length in front
and going comfortably, and just before the turn into
the straight there is six lengths of daylight between
her and the next horse. I’m down by the fence and
I’m riding harder than Bucksy, and he’s scrubbing the
ears off her. But they are finishing behind her, and
at the Leger there are three horses flying a length
back. They are coming so fast that Sugar doesn’t
look as though she is moving. But she is; and the
post is getting closer. With fifty yards to go there
are heads in it, and I’m as excited as a lady with a
tote ticket. I can see Bucksy flailing Sugar, and she
is still with them. “Sugar!” I’m yelling at the top of
my voice, and then they are past the post, and I’m
not breathing while I wait for the numbers to go up.
Just then there’s a yell from the crowd ; it wasn’t
the numbers, and I looked back at the track. Then I
saw it . . . Sugar without a rider. The ambulance
was there, and they were putting Bucksy on a stretcher.
There was another roar, and I saw that Sugar’s
number was in the frame.
When I saw him in the casualty room he had his
arm in a sling and a grin on his face.
“I kicked her home, Smacker,” he said.
“What happened?” I asked.
Bucksy looked suddenly serious. “It’s the weight
trouble. I’ve taken off so much that it’s made me
weak. I don’t remember anything that happened
after I passed the Leger, so maybe I’ll be thinking
about that partnership after all. One thing, I’ll be glad
to say good-bye to the midden.”
IT took a bit over the month for Bucksy’s arm
1 to patch up, and during that time we bought
another couple of horses. Already I was thinking of
our establishment growing into a big thing. I hadn’t
offered Bucksy the partnership out of charity, either.
Bucksy was good with horses, and he knew all about
getting them right. It was doing him a lot of good,
too. In a couple of months he was looking better than
ever. His face was getting fat, and his eyes had come
up to the surface. He could look at the manure in
the boxes without thinking of taking off weight.
But somehow it seemed that Bucksy was a
Jonah. We got a horse set for a race, and it was all
sewn up, but it missed the jump and didn’t even run
into a place. We dropped a packet on that. Then
Sugar went wrong on us, and the vet. said it was
doubtful whether she’d ever run again. We won a
race and, had it taken off us by a protest.
I could see that Bucksy was getting pretty
miserable about it. All the time we were losing more
money, and Bucksy was doing more than me because
he wanted to win more. I wasn’t surprised when he
mentioned about selling his horses and getting out.
“I shouldn’t have anything to do with horses,”
he said. “I’m bad luck.”
He didn’t even listen to all I told him about it
just being a bad trot.
“Smacker,” he said, “I’m finding something to do
that isn’t horses.”
Then I didn’t see Bucksy any more on the race-
tracks. I didn’t see him again for nearly two years,
and then one day I bumped him in the street. He
looked changed but prosperous. His face looked
flatter, and I asked him if he’d had an accident.
He grinned. “I did it on purpose,” he said.
I was pleased that he was looking so well, and
from his clothes I could see that he was a long way
from the dole.
“I could do with your secret of easy wealth,”
I said.
Bucksy grinned. “Ever heard of Jimmy Malloy?”
“The fighter?” I said.
“He’s me,” said Bucksy.
We were talking about ten minutes before he
mentioned weight. “Smacker,” he said, “I wish to
goodness I could put on some weight. I’d be feather
champ., and there’s more money. In this game the
bigger you are the bigger the purses. I’ve been eight-
five for nearly a year, and I can’t make it any better.”
It was comical. I was thinking of Bucksy
miserable about the size of his feet. I was thinking
about the two pounds overweight in the Epsom. I
was thinking about the midden heap. Weight. It
was always weight. Bucksy stared at me when I
started to laugh.
You couldn’t blame Stun. After
all there are hundreds of kids
snooping around with the idea that
because they go only six stone three
they’re all set to sit on a horse and
count their income in thousands.


ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
Jftfcrt "Mne ofWw mellcimcMandlwiqtid
ST. ETHELDREDA, ELY PLACE.
London is a city of contrasts. The same is equally true of all cities, though not in so marked a degree as the Empire s capital presents.
The very violence, or suddenness, of the contrasts impress, even startle. One might almost say with old Omar, a hair perhaps divides.
There are few thoroughfares in London where through traffic rages all the livelong day with more noisy insistency than that sma 1
section of Holborn between Grey’s Inn Road and Holborn Circus. Some half-way betwixt these two “points” is a turning on the northern
side of the thoroughfare, “closely guarded, a preserve,” called Ely Place. The transition from the roar of the main artery to this cul-de-sac
is almost uncanny in its suddenness. One feels the noise and bustle belongs to almost another world, not that of the peace and quiet
entered upon. From twentieth-century commercial conditions a rapid passage is made down the vista of six hundred years which brings
thoughts of a placid existence such as London could display in the fourteenth century. In this sequestered Ely Place, small though it be,
is a place of worship at once the delight of the artist and architect, no less than the purely religiously-minded. It is Ely Chapel,
or to P give it the name of the moment, the Church of St. Etheldreda, that Anglo-Saxon Saint, daughter of the King of the East English
(630-679) who founded an Abbey, now the Cathedral, to whom it is also dedicated, in the Isle of Ely. It originally belonged to the
splendid’palatial town residence of the Bishops of Ely. The palace connected with the church, or such as remained of the former,
was purchased by a Mr. Charles Cole, a distinguished architect, who built Ely Place, of which he was the proprietortill he died in 1802
The palace was once let by the Bishop as a town house to John of Gaunt, “Time-honoured Lancaster, who died here in 1 399. In 1874
Cardinal Manning acquired the property of the chapel, which thus reverted to pre-Reformation religious services, one of the few pre-
Srfo™lul chlchT“now used as budded” in England. The exquisite tracery of the east window and other [ ™d°ws ' »°< -en »n
the illustration is fourteenth-century work. St. Etheldreda’s is a unique ecclesiastical and architectural gem, facts of which the citizens
of London are fully conscious.


ELASTIC SIDES.
“The Soviet is striving for peace.”— Communist paper.
He picks his marks, does Comrade Joe,
Who rules the far-flung Russian land.
While Gaul and Briton fight the foe,
He aims at peace—on either hand.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors: *
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch ( Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0. ).
Wellington.
London : / Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. ( Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas (Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
IN 1929 AND 1939.
The first of November was the tenth anniversary of the
stupidest thing ever done by an Australian Govern-
ment: the scrapping of compulsory military training.
It was the first proceeding of the Scullin Administra-
tion, Ministers, their heads full of no-more-war and
brotherhood-of-man notions, having been sworn in on
October 22. The only thing that can be said for it 10
years after is that the system was only “suspended,”
not abolished. The Government did not dare to go that
far; in fact the Official Year-Book of the Common-
wealth says:—-
The suspension of all compulsory obligations in time
of peace (under Part XII of the Defence Act) and the
reconstitution of the forces on a basis of voluntary
enlistment were brought into operation as from
November 1, 1929.
The extract is recommended for careful reading by
Mr. Curtin and his candid friends of the A.C.T.U.
who are trying to work up an agitation against the
compulsory training of youths born in 1919. They
should read along with it another passage from
the Year-Book : “By the Defence Acts of 1903 and
1904 all male inhabitants between the ages of 18 and
60 years were made liable to serve in Australia with
the defence forces in time of war.” Those Acts are
still in force.
“Mr. Scullin’s aversion to military training is due
to his belief that if fate calls the cards for another
bloody war it will be fought mainly in the air, and
that land armaments, as they are known to-day, will
play a small part in the hostilities.” Thus the ukase
was “explained” by a Labor paper. Mr. Scullin him-
self said with the cocksureness of ignorance that “the
experience of the war proves that, provided there is
a highly-skilled nucleus of officers, it is possible to
train large bodies of volunteers within a compara-
tively short period.” To this General “Pompey”
Elliott, then a Senator and now a proud and sad A.I.F.
memory, replied out of his “experience of the war”:
It took the United States 15 months to put a trained
force in the field, and then American soldiers showed
an ignorance of the rudiments of military knowledge
that was pitiful and appalling.
A Bulletin writer who had served in the A.I.F. gave
his testimony:
“The A.1.F.,” we are told, “showed how quickly
untrained men could be turned into first-class battle
troops.” The A.I.F. showed nothing of the sort.
The First Division contained an overwhelming majority
of trainees and C.M.F. men, and it probably did not
include a single officer without experience. Yet this
force, after four months of the most intensive training,
landed in Gallipoli not nearly equipped for its exacting
task. More training followed in Egypt after the Evacua-
tion, and still more in Britain and France. By the time
the Fifth Division was launched against the Germans
at Fleurbaix they were still short of the standard they
were later to attain, a standard dearly bought in the
firing line at the cost of countless wasted lives.
Melbourne “Age,” defending the Government, pleaded
that “compulsory training gives rise to difficulties in
making arrangements with other countries for mutual
disarmament and for participation in peace confer-
ences.” Mr. Brennan, the Attorney-General, asked
the people “to envisage a higher conception of defence
than that involved in teaching childhood the way to
kill.” Other Labor members took up the parable
when Parliament met.
Mr. Long (Lang, N.S.W.): The policy of this Gov-
ernment in abolishing compulsory training will tend to
abolish war.
Mr. Lewis (Corio, Vic.): My ideal is the complete
disarmament of all nations and I am prepared to show
my sincerity by advocating the complete disarming of
this country. . , ~ ,
Mr. Crouch (Corangamite, Vic.).: We should place
our trust in the justice and honor of the world. Do
I think it wrong to make any provision for the defence
of this country? I do.
In May, 1921, as the Year-Book has it, “a war
organisation evolved from the A.1.F.” had been
“applied to peace conditions. Numbers of units and
formations were altered to correspond with those of
the A.1.F., and every effort was made to maintain
the traditions established by those units in the Great
War.” In 1922 “the divisional organisation was re-
duced to a nucleus force.” The Scullin Government’s
orders were that the divisional organisation might be
retained but the nucleus must be reduced from “48,000
Citizen Forces and 16,000 Senior Cadets to 35,000
Militia Forces and 7000 Senior Cadets.” But it is one
thing to issue orders and another thing to induce
trainees recruited by compulsion to re-enlist as volun-
teers. That job was left to devoted bands of officers
and of warrant and non-commissioned officers.
Ministers gave no help, and the pacifist section of the
predominant party railed and sneered.
On February 1, 1929, the A.M.F. had a training
strength of 47,931. At the end of February, 1930, the
new militia consisted of 2561 officers, 4441 warrant
and non-commissioned officers and 10,670 other ranks.
In April, nine infantry battalions and two Light Horse
regiments were struck off the already “revised” army
list. In the meantime, however, the number of enrol-
ments had risen to 27,454, thanks to the devoted bands
aforesaid.
Those in the permanent force were ill requited
for their exertions. In June, 1930, “to avert wholesale
dismissals,” they were all ordered to take in the en-
suing twelvemonth leave without pay ranging from
five weeks and four days to eight weeks ; and 351
officers and 567 warrant officers had to do their eight
weeks, the pay of most of the warrant officers for that
year being reduced below the basic wage. The Secre-
tary of the Defence Department, who received £5OO
p.a. more than the highest-paid army officer (£l5OO
p.a., less salary for eight weeks), continued to draw his
£2OOO p.a., nor was rationing applied to the depart-
mental clerks.
“Treat ’em shabby! ” was the administrative slogan
for soldiers. Chauvel, retiring full of years and honors,
was officially granted “the use of a horse from the
remount depot while he remains in Melbourne, pro-
vided horses are available and no additional expenses
are involved.” Non-coms, put off for eight weeks
without pay and dreading the sack were told that the
Government would see what it could do for them in
India. Duntroon was closed, staff and cadets being
transferred to Victoria Barracks, Sydney. In an
expansive moment the Government did away with
preference to returned soldiers in the Works and
Railways Department. The moment it found that
this wouldn’t be tolerated, it revoked the instruction,
which had been printed on tender forms.
The “peace nucleus” of 35,000 was not reached till
1936. In 1935 the total was 28,080 (on March 1, 1900,
three months after the proclamation of the Common-
wealthi the training strength was 28,886, the population
being then 3,700,000); and 1935 was the first “sanc-
tions” year! Though storms were beating up
in Europe and Asia, politicians never worried about
the state of the army, and the Lyons Government was
as hostile to the reintroduction of national training as
Labor itself. With the Japanese in Manchuria, the
Italians in Abyssinia, the Germans in the Rhineland
and Austria, and civil war in Spain, recruiting for the
militia went on in a casual fashion, men (18 to 40)
being enlisted for three years and training limited to
16 days a year.
All through the years that have elapsed since that
disastrous November day there has been a tragic waste
of young manhood. Wild young fellows who might
have been saved by the example and influence of the
A.1.F., preserved in the A.M.F. by men of fine charac-
ter, have gone to the pack. Splendid military
material for which useful employment could have been
found in the defence forces, particularly in estab-
lishing military posts at exposed points round which
settlement would have grown, has been condemned by
the thousand to the precarious lot and hopeless out-
look of the relief worker. For relief works money has
been poured out like water, and among the results in
all the States are interest bills which soar every year.
Now, in the war which was to have been “fought
mainly in the air” (and precious little aerial prepara-
tion the Scullin and Lyons Governments made for it!),
we see 80 French and British divisions in position on
the Maginot Line and perhaps as many German divi-
sions in position on the Siegfried Line. We see the
citizen soldiers of democratic Switzerland guarding
their frontiers ready for all-comers, and the citizen
soldiers of democratic Finland standing up to the
Mighty Soviet. And in Australia, with nearly
3,000,000 more people than Switzerland and nearly
twice as many as Finland, we have seen another 35,000
men enrolled in the militia and 10,000 or
sive of militiamen—in a special-service force, in each
case by spectacular, costly and dilatory methods,
when we might have been able to call up half a mil-
lion men who had borne arms, and could thus have
dispensed with the rudimentary instruction that half
the militiamen are receiving and most of the special-
servicemen will have to receive, and would have fur-
nished a sufficient fighting force, with ample reserves,
if invasion came.
In the perilous age on which we have entered
(and the peril will not cease with the present war), we
shall have to go right back to the spirit and practice
of the years (1909-11) in which, by the vote of all
parties, ratified by the nation, “the principle of uni-
versal liability to training was made law for the first
time in any English-speaking community,” and a
national army came into being. If Mr. Curtin and
his friends throw themselves in the path of this inevit-
able movement, so much the worse for them.
U.S.A.. L.S.D.
That the U.S.A. should keep out of this war is wholly
that country’s affair. It is the first job of statesmen
of any country to keep their people out of war unless
war is forced on them. Out of this war Uncle Sam s
statesmen are emphatically determined to keep their
country. And nothing has been heard from Uncle
Sam’s citizens regarding that except loud and pro-
longed hear-hears. The strongest argument P"‘
forward for repeal in the embargo debates was tnat
repeal would help to keep the United States out ot
the war; that the embargo was a form of interven-
tion, and that in maintaining it Uncle Sam was not
maintaining the strict neutrality which is now pre-
ferred by all, from those in the highest places down.
That all this is very different from what shallow
thinkers had been led to expect by United States
contributions to the war of words over the past few
years—contributions by leading American statesmen
in office, to say nothing of the fire-eating belligerence
and crusade campaigning of New York newspapers—
was pointed out with chapter-and-verse quotations in
a recent Bulletin article. This paper is not dis-
appointed with the climbing down of Uncle Sam from
his high moral perch, any more than it has been with
the Soviet twist. It never had any trust in the “Mighty
Soviet,” and it did not accept hot-gospellers or New
York newspapers as representative of what the U.S.A.
was really thinking or what it would do when it came
to the pinch.
What Uncle Sam has done is what any people
in his circumstances not led by crusading lunatics
would have done. His moral lectures might hence-
forth be worth two-a-penny, but they should never
have been worth more. Meanwhile, to business.
’Plane building has not been interrupted by the
debate. With the issue still being discussed ’planes
already on order for Britain were reported as finished
and under guard at the quayside waiting for the word
go. Britain had ordered 500; Australia 50 (now
raised to 100); they work out at about £30,000 each.
This is only a cat’s breakfast to the good business
ahead.
In the Empire Air Force scheme —which, among
other things, will make Canada far and away the most
powerfully defended, as it is easily the most happily
placed, of the Dominions; Australia contributing
heavily, while itself remaining open, isolated and
vulnerable —some 1500 further ’planes are mentioned
as the likely first order to be placed with Uncle Sam.
That is only a beginning in the good business for
Uncle Sam in this department alone. His aircraft
industry can turn out ’planes for export at the rate
of 1000 a month without increasing capacity. With
increased capacity introduced to meet the war demand
the rate of production would be staggering. There
is no questioning the fact that this would be of tremen-
dous importance to Britain and France, which coun-
tries are apparently to hear and heed the cry of
tortured civilisation alone. Perhaps nobody should
be worried by the thought that, as ’planes are capable
of travelling without the assistance of a ship’s hold,
there should be nothing to prevent countries opposed
to Britain and France from also buying Uncle Sam’s
’planes and flying them to where they would be of
most use. The proposal is to fly the Canadian pro-
ducts to Britain and France.
In other departments the advantages in a no-
embargo policy are entirely with Britain and France,
provided they can come and get it and pay on the nail.
The advantages to Uncle Sam in the pocket depart-
ment should also be enormous. In the last war his
production of war requirements rose to a total greater
than that of Britain, France and Germany together.
In 1918 he was digging out 615,000,000 tons of coal
to their 418,000,000; 71,000,000 tons of iron ore to
their 39,000,000; producing 40,000,000 tons of pig-
iron to their 22,000.000; 45,000,000 tons of steel
ingots to their 24,000,000. (“Their” in each case is
Britain, France and Germany together.)
Now that armies are mechanised to an exten.
hardly dreamt of in 1918, those production figures
have increased significance. Britain’s first consignment
of troops to France —158,000 men —was accompanied
by 25,000 vehicles, including tanks, some of them
weighing 15 tons apiece or more; the 148,000 in 1914
had only 800 mechanised vehicles in all. Nearly
60 p.c. of the fighting troops in 1914 were infantry-
men, with rifles and bayonets and with two machine-
guns per battalion. Now only 20 p.c. are infantry-
men, with 50 Bren guns, 22 anti-tank rifles and other
weapons as well per battalion. The enormous busi-
ness pending for Uncle Sam, and how important being
able to do that business must be to Britain and France,
is clear enough.
It is made even clearer by a comparison of recent
United States and German production. In 1937 Uncle
Sam produced 37,200,000 tons of pig-iron to Germany’s
15,088,000; 50,300,000 tons of steel ingots to Ger-
many’s 20,280,000. In no war-supplies department
has Uncle Sam’s capacity been anything like fully
reached. Under pressure of the war, and with the
means of selling, his business could expand to fabu-
lous figures, the importance of that business to Britain
and France being proportionately enormous. Cer-
tainly it would more than offset anything that Ger-
many can obtain from its Soviet partner.
Our Glorious Press —some organs of it previously
among the most deluded about Uncle Sam’s intentions
—would have been slipping if it hadn’t improved on
the embargo debates by reporting Hitler as “infuri-
ated” by the prospect of repeal. As recently as last
year the editor of the “Frankfurter Zeitung” toured
the U.S.A. on a special mission to provide Germany
with first-hand information. On his return he reported
that “the United States had not the slightest intention
of pursuing any policy of open alliances,” but he
summed up:
Whether the present Neutrality Law continues to
exist or not, if a European war came Great Britain
would have not only American sympathy but very soon
American help. It would be given in profusion.
Whatever else may be said of them —and a great
deal can be —they have believed all along in Germany
in seeing things clearly as they actually are. Some
of the same sort of realism would have prevented
any disappointment over Uncle Sam’s present prefer-
ence for minding his own business, which, with the
embargo lilted, would increasingly become a very
good line of business indeed.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Still Scared Stiff.
In March “Pravda,” Stalin’s official daily newspaper,
commented on the manoeuvres which led to the sign-
ing of the German pacts with Latvia and Estonia: —•
The Berlin wolf at one time demanded of the
Estonian sheep, and even of the Latvian sheep, “Tell
the world, darling, that you are not afraid of me!”
And the sheep, with chattering teeth, said it was not a
bit afraid.
With the Berlin wolfs permission the Bear has itself
applied to Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania the very
methods for which it condemned the wolf six months
ago. With the wolf’s permission also it grabbed
“196,000 square kilometres” of Poland when the wolf
had done the work.
With every speech of Mr. Molotov, “the People’s
Commissar for Foreign Affairs,” the chattering of his
teeth becomes louder. In his last effort, delivered at
Moscow, he threw over every principle which might
offend Germany and swallowed every offensive anti-
Nazi epithet which has issued from the Moscow
propaganda machine. He denounced Britain and
France as “aggressors,” exulted over the downfall of
the Poles (his brother-Slavs), threatened Finland, railed
at the U.S.A. for its friendly interest in the little
Republic and its Neutrality Act amendments and
promised Hitler “practical co-operation and political
support in Germany’s efforts for peace.”
The gospel from which the Communist parties of
the world drew their inspiration during the late
months of 1938 and the early months of this year was
a booklet written by Dmitrov, “hero” of the Reich-
stag-fire trials and secretary of the Communist Inter-
national. Dmitrov is now Commissar-Governor
of “Western Byelorussia and the Western Ukraine,”
admitted to the Mighty Soviet Republic by “popular
vote” —details withheld.
To Dmitrov it was “the fascist brigands,” not
Britain and France, who were plotting aggression.
Poland would be the object of German plunder in the
autumn of 1939 ; there would be an attack on Yugo-
slavia in the spring of 1940 ; attacks on Rumania and
Bulgaria in the autumn of that year; more attacks on
France, Belgium, Holland, Denmark and Switzerland
in the spring of 1941, and a final attack on the Mighty
Soviet Republic in the autumn of 1941. He
warned the “democratic peoples” that they must “wipe
out their capitulators, their appeasement-mongers,”
since “the defence of the peoples against armed fascist
aggression” could not be “achieved by wordy pacifist
declarations and invocations.”
What is needed is active struggle, resolute resistance.
The onslaught of armed fascism must be countered by
the mailed fist of the peoples against... .fascism,
the worst enemy of mankind.
In the struggle against “the worst enemy of mankind”
Russia was to be “the vanguard.”
And three months after it was preached from
Moscow that “the fascist aggressors are beating the
drums regarding their Munich victory and making
furious preparations for new bandit conspiracies and
crimes,” Moscow presents the spectacle of the shiver-
ing Molotov, with a shaking Stalin by his side, declar-
ing that “Germany is now for peace” and that Britain
and France are “seeking excuses to prolong the war
by attempting to appear as the champions of the
rights of democracy against Hitlerism.”
What Molotov now says will have little effect on
the course of events in Europe. At the same time,
he and his agents should not be allowed to conduct
a defeatist campaign in Australia. That campaign
has been launched by twisters and quitters, just as a
defeatist campaign was launched from the same
quarter in the middle of 1918. Communism is a queer
bird and a very frightened one, fluttering to any bough
where the leaves seem thickest. But its propaganda
has an appeal to the addled-headed, especially when
it is camouflaged as somebody else’s propaganda.
Communism is the bitter enemy of every British ideal,
the active friend of .Australia’s enemies. And its de-
featism has a nuisance value, if nothing else.
Another Defence Programme.
The new one will add £26,250,000 to the expenditure
for 1939-40 and bring the war appropriation up
to £59,500,000. Of the £59,500,000 £14,500,000 is for
the R.A.N., £28,200,000 for the land forces and
£11,900,000 for the R.A.A.F. It would have been
better if a lot of this had been spread over several
years before the war broke out, and, unless it is a long
war, a great deal of the equipment may never be
blooded. At the same time, it will be all to the good
as a contribution to permanent defence, especially if,
as promised, only £7,700,000 of the money will be spent
overseas.
Mr. Menzies points out once more that in 1914-15
only £19,600,000 was spent. Apart from the difference
in the value of money in 1914-15 there was then no air
force to be expanded, motor transport was in its in-
fancy and the helping of quickfiring weapons was a
meagre one by present standards.
The Navy is to have three Tribal class destroyers
instead of two, all to be built in Australia. These are
vessels of 1950 tons, outside the ordinary destroyer
range. The latest British models carry eight 4.7 in.
guns and seven smaller ones, so that they are to all
intents and purposes swift knots) and heavily-
armed light cruisers, ideal for work among the
passages of the Barrier Reef and along other parts of
the northern coast. A few more of them would be
welcome assets and help Australian naval shipbuilding
along, more particularly as they are the newest things
in types.
Instead of the 50 Lockheed Hudsons ordered
from U.S.A., 100 will be bought. Speedy delivery is
now anticipated. The R.A.F. has disclosed particulars
of performance of the ones in use in Britain loaded
weight, 17,5001 b. ; speed at 6500 ft., 246 m.p.h.; cruis-
ing speed at 10,000 ft., 175 m.p.h.; range, 1700 miles.
About 500 light training ’planes will be acquired in
Australia, and it has been announced that production
of Wirraways will soon be up to six per week.
Then —doubtless to the consternation of State
Government Railways Departments —4000 new motor
vehicles are to be bought and there will be four new
armament factories. Mechanisation of the land forces
will be extended. And, apart from the Sixth Division,
75,000 militia will be kept in camp.
It is a programme which, among other things,
should give a good fillip to the metal and fuel indus-
tries and provide a basis for civil expansion in many
directions when the war is over.
Sooner—or Later?
The wife of our war-wise Governor-General said the
other day that “peace may come sooner than many of
us think.” The same day brought cabled extracts
from a British White Paper on atrocities committed
in German concentration camps and a comment from
the London “Daily Express”:
Now we know the full horror of the tyranny we
are fighting. Now we see the full cunning and cruelty
of Hitler and his ruffians. Never can the British Gov-
ernment or the British people make peace with Germany
until the regime of the present rulers is ended.
That was not the policy of the British Government as
outlined by Mr. Chamberlain last month, nor is it the
policy of the British Government as presented by the
Foreign Secretary last week.
Some of the atrocities are vouched for by British
Consuls. In the mass they are abominable, but things
as bad or worse have been done in Russia to a far
greater number of people without anyone ever suggest-
ing that Britain should fight Russia on that account
and wage war “until the regime of the present rulers
is ended.” When Mr. Winston Churchill wanted to
make war on the Bolsheviks in 1919-20 the whole
British nation rejected him.
If there is a case for avenging the Jewish victims
of concentration-camp thugs, so thoroughly that what
happened to them can never happen again, the duty
rests not on the people of the British Empire but on
their own race. In New York City alone there are
more Jews than there are British Australians in Vic-
toria or British and Boers in South Africa, and their
financial strength and influence are immense. They
control newspapers, newsagencies, magazines, films,
theatres and radio stations. The Mayor of New York
is a Jewish mother’s son ; the Governor of New York
is a Jew ; the Secretary to the Federal Treasury and
the latest U.S. Supreme Court Judge are Jews, and the
President has Jewish advisers.
As an ally in the struggle against Nazi Germany,
New York Jewry could be of the utmost service in
the domains of propaganda and finance, if not in the
field ; but no such alliance has been offered. On the
contrary some of the bitterest comments on and some
of the most flagrant misrepresentations of British
policy have come from New York Jews.
Australians accepted the war in the spirit of
loyalty to the Crown and the race which they have
always shown, but their one war aim is guaranteed
security for the Commonwealth and the Empire.
Guaranteed security accomplished (and the sooner the
better), their share of the work will be done. Crusad-
ing wars and wars of vengeance they leave to others.
Another Sorry Chapter Closes.
“With the end of the session apparently only two
days off, Parliament went at a gallop, division-bells
ringing a merry accompaniment.” Thus a U.A.P.
afternoon paper began a report of the proceedings of
an alleged deliberative assembly that hangs out in
Sydney.
One bill was pushed through with hardly a word of
debate. Many bills still wait decision before the House
can rise; about eight are on the agenda for to-day.
“Bring on your bills and gag them through,” Mr. Ross
called out; “this is not a Parliament at all!”
And when the stampede was over another U.A.P.
paper reported:
The Assembly adjourned yesterday till February 28.
The gag was freely used to save time and to enable
the Government to get into recess long before the
usual time. In four sitting days 16 bills were passed
through all stages, and four other bills were carried to
the second reading stage.
During the previous week the alleged Treasurer
had moved, as “a matter of urgent necessity,” “that the
Racing Taxation Bill, the Income-tax Management
(Amendment) Bill, the Income-tax Bill and the Stamp
Duties (Amendment) Bill (No. 2) be brought in and
passed through all their stages in one day.” These
measures, drafted in a hurry for a hurried passage,
had, with one already shoved through, been designed
to bring in “additional revenue approximating
£3,900,000 during the current financial year,” now in
its fifth month ; and not a penny is for the war. The
alleged Treasurer, whose words are quoted, had
blithely explained that “last year a surplus of £7785
was forecast, the actual result being a deficit of
£2,448,674,” and that, in spite of the additional
£3,900,000, there would be another deficit, estimated
at £1,512,300. He did not Explain that a few weeks
“after the surplus of £7785 was forecast” the salaries
of Ministers, members and officers of Parliament had
been raised by £25,000 p.a., members voting themselves
another £205 p.a. (to £875), nor did he hint at any
reduction to the old figures, much less restoration of
the ill-gotten gains.
The demand that Stamp Duties Amendment (No.
2) should be passed in half an hour or so was es-
pecially daring, since the bill was a substitute for a
legislative atrocity which combined the maximum of
clumsiness with the maximum of attempted robbery
by statute. As the Government’s principal press sup-
porter put it in anguished sentences, it sought to
impose “heavy duties on property never enjoyed by
a testator and even on property of which he had never
heard,” and the best the paper could say of the sub-
stitute was that, besides containing clauses that were as
clear as mud, it imposed “phenomenal duties on both
small and large estates,” and set up the Commissioner
of Stamp Duties as a dictator, that official being “dis-
putant and judge.”
On estates with a net value of £lOOO or under,
testators having been domiciled in N.S.W., the duties
are 3 p.c. for a widow or children, 5 p.c. for a widower,
brother, sister or parent and 8 p.c. for legatees with no
blood ties ; and they rise to 27 p.c., 29 p.c. and 32 p.c.
respectively on estates valued at £lOO,OOO or upwards.
Where “diseased persons” (quotation from “Hansard”)
were domiciled outside N.S.W. the duties are 3 p.c. to
8 p.c. on £5OO and under and 25 p.c. to 32 p.c. on
£75,000 and upwards. There are additional Com-
monwealth duties, rising from 1 p.c. to 15 p.c., with
a one-third rebate in the cases of widows, children
and grandchildren, and the Commonwealth duties are
pretty certain to be increased. So between them State
and Commonwealth Governments may take almost
half the value of an estate which might consist almost
wholly of a going concern, and the dual exaction
might conceivably wreck the going concern.
When the plunder-by-statute programme reached
the other shop, pastoralist Norman Kater said it was
“time unification was considered seriously.”
I feel certain that if a plebiscite were taken here the
vote would be overwhelming in its favor.
And many other people are equally certain, but the
Commonwealth Parliament will have to take the initia-
tive. There is as little chance of getting an abolition
referendum from the Sydney libel on representative in-
stitutions as there is of getting members to disgorge
the extra £4 a week they voted themselves when the
State was going to the bad at the rate of nearly £1
per head per annum admitted and nearly £2 a head
per annum actual; and that on revenue account
only. To the Americans annual loans are deficits, and
if American practice were N.S.W. practice it would
have to be acknowledged that the State is going to
the bad at the rate of £5 per head per annum.
Brisbane Council Defended.
Lord Mayor Jones writes:
Adapting the old proverb that one should first cast the
beam from one’s own eye before searching f r the mote in
the other fellow’s, why not do a little criticism of one of your
own local-governing bodies—the Sydney Water Board, which,
because of the Commonwealth Government’s restriction of
loan funds, had to dismiss 4000 workers and is continuing
the unhappy task at the rate of 150 or so a week until the
New Year?
I am surprised that a journal of your standing should
have read one side of the Brisbane City Council question only
and perpetrated in your last issue the gross misstatements
made by our opponents.
Our difficulties are traceable almost entirely to the fact
that we have been unable to borrow £700,000 of the
£1,000,000 for which approval was given by the Loan Council
in July. “Business as usual” was urged by the Prime
Minister, who almost at the same time communicated with the
financial institutions of Australia and the big insurance com-
panies and instructed them that only a limited amount of
finance must be made available to the semi-Governmental
bodies. There could only be one result: retrenchment of a
large number of employees throughout Australia and dislo-
cation of the “business as usual” slogan.
Our problem in the City Council is not singular to Bris-
bane; if you are in doubt about it, ask the Sydney Water
Board, where the Commonwealth Government, as a special
favor, has come to its assistance directly by a loan of
£350,000.
Our City Fund deficit was mainly caused by the war:
£lB,OOO for A.R.P. work; £23,000 for increased loan commit-
ments to America, caused by the adverse exchange, as well
as £28,000 through an increase in the State basic wage (given
after we had adopted our budget), and an advance of £12,000
in the £lOO,OOO we had already allotted for hospital upkeep.
Probably you overlook the fact that the Brisbane City
Council’s activities are far more numerous than those of
Sydney, for here, in addition to the ordinary local-authority
tasks of road-making, drainage and the like, we have control
of tramways, electricity and water and sewerage. Brisbane
is a city of distances, where the minimum area allowed for
home-building is 24 perches, and consequently our duties are
much heavier than those of older-established cities where
development in a restricted area has already taken place.
It was not our fault that when the Labor Administration
took office in 1934 the loan indebtedness of the city was
£17,410,718, or that we have had to pay interest at 6 per cent,
on American loans borrowed by our predecessors.
Only a biased person would not admit that we have
transformed Brisbane in our six years of office. We have
accelerated sewerage at a rate undreamed of' by our prede-
cessors, and as a result we have swept away a reason which
caused visiting comedians and others to suggest that in
sanitary measures we were—well, not up to date. We have
laid more than 200 miles of concrete footpaths, biiilt miles
and miles of first-class roads —there is a road mileage of 2000
in Brisbane —and we have laid down hundreds of miles of con-
crete channelling. Although as a southerner you may not
agree that our tramway service is the most up to date in
Australia, we say it is, and our fares are the cheapest in the
Commonwealth. In six years we have built HO of the most
modern tramcars. Our electricity, produced at the municipal
powerhouse, has provided current which is as cheap as most
other capital cities.
We have planned ahead in Brisbane, and had it not been
for the restriction of loan money through the war we would
have completed this year more reservoirs and pipelines to
augment our water supply, which, unlike those of the southern
capitals, has to be pumped from the river, filtered and aerated
before it starts on its 25-mile journey to Brisbane.
Our critics may assail us on our financing, but we have
been able to borrow £4,921,000 in 54 years, and hard-headed
businessmen at the head of the financial institutions would
not lend us money if our financial position had not been
sound. The fact that we have been able to keep 2500 more
men in employment during nearly six years’ occupancy of the
administrative benches of the City Hall —this represented
£lO,OOO in purchasing power extra to the business houses of
the city each week —is something that Brisbane will not readily
forget.
The Commonwealth Bank, too, has reason to remember
Labor’s term of office in the City Council, for, although we
have borrowed nearly £s,ooo,ooo—and spent it wisely—we kept
the rates lower than our predecessors, and not only appreci-
ably reduced our overdraft to the bank but have also brought
down the loan indebtedness by nearly £200,000.
Mr. Jones’s letter arrived when this page was
about to go to press. It would have been unfair to
delay publication for a week, but the right of com-
ment is reserved.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T ”; Though candidates for . the 15
N.S.W. Leg. Council vacancies had to
be nominated and seconded by members
of what some people are pleased to
call a Parliament, members being the
electors, five received one (1) vote apiece
and four one less than that number. It
brought back a kindly memory of an
old Kalgoorlie pal. Secretary of a
trade-union in good standing, he de-
veloped political ambitions, and after
profound consultation with myself (I
was a veteran cub-reporter, aged 18)
he decided to gratify them by starting
in a modest way and working up. Con-
ciliation committees were being estab-
lished and it was thought that they were
going to become important, which they
never did ; anyway, he ran for a con-
ciliation-committee election. But, sure
that we were on a stone moral, we
neglected to canvass; and my poor old
pal bottomed a small poll .without even
the vote that he could have given him-
self. I proffered consolation in as many
of the 30 pubs that then adorned Han-
nan-street as my twenty-five bob a week
would run to ; but he said it was no
good: public life and he were thence-
forth strangers. I daresay the four Syd-
ney aspirants outed for ducks are made
of sterner stuff.
* * * *
“Hacksaw”: Hitler’s acquisitive tech-
nique has imitators. An affable fellow
came into the office of a Melbourne
businessman, a friend, and asked him
for the loan of a quid. “Sorry, old man,”
said the man of affairs, “but five bob is
all I’ve got at the moment.” “That’s all
right,” said the borrower cheerfully,
pocketing the money. “I’ll come back
for the other 15 to-morrow.” He did,
and got it.
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: My friend Mac Lettuce,
who lives in a respectable and reprehen-
sibly expensive block of flats at King’s
Cross, records a week of dark and
dramatic events. It began very late on
a Saturday night when he awoke to hear
somebody trying to open his door with
the wrong key; either a drunk or a
burglar. Before he opened the door
Mac Lettuce took the precaution of mak-
ing menacing noises, and the visitor fled.
A few nights of calm, and then from the
flat beneath came the awful sounds of
the wronged wife calling the Other
Woman everything. There was a
crowded hour of screaming, sobbing and
language that would make a bullock
blush ; then a sinister quiet again, broken
only by the sporadic roaring cjf the
Americans having their nightly nootrality
celebration in the next building. The
climax came when the “Morning Herald,”
creeping in under the door as usual,
bore a small typewritten slip attached
to the front page with the stirring call,
“WORKERS REVOLT!” Mac Lettuce
decided at first that Hunter-street must
have gone completely off its rocker. But
the note concluded, “MISS BLANK IS
UNFAIR TO JACKIE.” Miss Blank is
the landlady. The identity of Jackie
and the weight of the sense of injustice
that impelled him to type out his mani-
festo and attach it to the “Herald” of all
things are still matters of mystery.
* * * *
“Hilary C.”: “Courier-Mail” (Bris-
bane) of October 24, 1939, reports that
the Queensland Patriotic Fund amounts
to nearly £7OO. In the same issue under
the heading “To-day in the war of 25
years ago” we find that on October 24,
1914, the Queensland Patriotic Fund had
reached £95,767 and the “Courier” Fund
£26,462. Of course, they had one more
month in 1914, but that doesn’t explain
away a ratio of 174 to 1.
* * * *
“Shorus”: A recruiting incident in
M.L. before conscription came along in
1915 leturns to me as one of the last
war’s lighter incidents. Young Sandy
Macpherson wanted to enlist, but his
stern widowed mother refused her per-
mission. Sandy brooded deeply over the
matter, and when a bunch of his cronies
went up for examination he was among
them. Mrs. Mac heard of it next day
and descended on Sandy. “Well,” said
that youth, “y’ needn’t get wild about it.
They won’t take me.” Mrs. Mac was
”Drop another depth charge, Prendergast; We must be right in the
thick of 'em!”
petrified. “Won’t take ye?” she gasped
at last. “And why not, I’d like to know.”
“Dr. Blank says I’m not good enough,”
Sandy reported. “I’m too thin or light
or something.” Mrs. Mac made no
further comment, but next morning she
was observed in her well-worn best
clothes getting briskly off to town. “It’s
that old Blank I’m going to see,” she
advised a neighbor. “The nerve of him
turning down my Sandy and saying he’s
not good enough. I’m going to know
what for.” What came in between is
wrapped in mystery, but Sandy not only
went to the war, but returned in 1919
with the D.C.M.
* * * *
“El V.”: Two old Trafalgar families
were represented at this year’s celebra-
tions in Sydney of Nelson’s victory-
one a Snellgrove, and the other a
Pascoe (spelt Pasco in Nelson’s day).
Pasco was the man who hoisted Nelson’s
signal before the battle. Four years later,
as captain of the Hindostan, he escorted
the Dromedary, in which Macquarie came
to Australia. His main interest during
the journey seemed to be to chase every
sail in the hope that it might be a prize.
By the time he reached Australia his ship
was out of everything, from beeswax
to beer. Even trunks were being broken
up for firewood, while the Dromedary,
headed by a bluff old master mariner
instead of a full-blown captain, rolled in
comparative abundance. Leaving Aus-
tralia. Pasco took Bligh home, and there
were more want and swearing on the way
round the Horn. Pasco’s son was with
Owen Stanley in H.M.S. Britomart when
she sailed to found Port Essington in
1838, and afterwards transferred to the
Beagle. The younger Pasco came per-
manently to Australia in the Chusan, the
first P. and O. steamer to realise his pro-
ject of an extension to this continent of
the Anglo-Asian steamer mail. He died
in 1898.
* * * *
“M 8”: Denizens of the Sydney water-
front must be the most law-abiding
as well as the most monotonous
crowd in the world. The biggest port
south of the Line, with ships of all
nations entering and leaving, with hun-
dreds of pleasure craft, tugs, coasters,
colliers, barges, scows on the move
day and night in its innumerable inlets
and bays, it scarcely ever attains a line
in the press. ’Frisco, London, Marseilles,
Kobe, Turin, Hamburg, Rio, Antofagasta
and many others have given reporters,
story-writers and poets ceaseless inspira-
tion. Yet Port Jackson, as beautiful and
colorful as any of them, escapes notice.
Why?
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: When we humans
arrive at the sensible habit of breeding
our men for efficient living, in the same
way that we breed cattle and sheep, I
think I know what the cardinal recipe
will be: “Make ’em either very big or
very little or red-headed.” Lincoln,
Henry VIII. and Charles 11. were 6ft.
4in., and Henry had a scarlet poll.
Napoleon was sft. 2in. and a bit by old
French measure (sft. 6in. English); Mus-
solini is about the same; Gamelin and
Franco are small men ; Roberts, Foch
and T. E. Lawrence were very short.
The red-headed include William the
Conqueror, Mahomet, Julius Caesar,
Ben Jonson, Swinburne, Henley, Lenin,
Palmerston, Washington, Jefferson and
Hamilton Hume. W. M. Hughes should
have had a double issue—small and pink
r —but had to be content with smallness.
The late Ted Millen once said to him
after a hurricane session: “My word,
Billy, you should be red-headed.” “I
am,” said Billy, “but they camouflaged
me at birth.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: The Maoriland eccentric
who calls himself Geoffrey Wladislas Vaile
Potocki de Montalk, Count Potocki of
Montalk, Heir-General to the Kings of
Poland, the Grand Dukes of Lithuania
and the Dukes of Silesia and Hospodas
of Moldavia, has been in trouble in Eng-
land. Same old trouble, failure to pay
his debts. Geoff has not found in Eng-
land what he anticipated. In a case in
Christchurch years ago, prior to his de-
parture “to take the golden road to
Samarkand,” he said he was going to
Merrie England, where poets “are feted,
laurelled and crowned,” in contrast to
the bad treatment they were accorded in
“the land of White Savages and All
Blacks.” About ten years ago Montalk
visited Poland and came away disgusted.
He said the peasants there were lower in
the scale of culture than the Maoris
before the white occupation, and that
“the nobles are the only civilised people.”
Possibly this prompted the poet, clothed
in a long red coat and white blouse, with
hair reaching to his waist, to say to the
English Judge: “I sincerely hope Hitler
wins the war, your Honor.”
* * * *
“Jachris”: Halliday Sutherland (B.
1/11/’39) tells a story against himself.
At a London gathering he overheard one
old gentleman ask a friend “Who is this
fellow Sutherland?” The answer came
quickly and sincerely as something which
everybody should know, “Oh, he’s the
husband of Marie Stopes.”
* * * *
“Greasy”: The earnest dears of the
women’s auxiliary of the National De-
fence League, who have been dabbling
with the idea of replacing men on farms
and stations, were told the blunt truth
by E. E. Martin, of N.S.W. Graziers’
Association. He advised them that
juggling crossbred wethers, crutching
ewes, lumping wheat, sitting on a rock-
ing, roaring tractor from dawn to dark,
and similar pastimes were not for them,
but they could help in the homesteads,
where help is notoriously lacking. The
ladies, whose visions of themselves riding
picturesquely round the country in
jodhpurs merged into the less attractive
picture of scrubbing floors, changed the
subject. Their spokeswoman rather tartly
declared, “It is not our objective to
supplant men in industry.”
* * * *
“Derrot”: We walked through Rush-
cutter Bay Park, Sydney, about midnight,
and, with a stiff cold
harbor wind feeling
the trees and scurry-
ing papers across the
reserve, it needed
our thick tweeds and
brisk pace to keep
the blood flowing.
In the shadows we
came upon a couple
huddled on a park
bench. The man had
his arm tightly
around the woman
to keep her warm
while the wind flut-
tered the ribbons of
their tattered clothes.
As we passed they
asked the time, and,
though we didn’t
realise it then, they
were probably won-
dering how long it
would be before the
sun came up and
warmed their frozen,
wasted bodies. I
read next day in the
paper that the
woman, 44 and
blind, had to be
helped into court
with her husband, 54
and partly blind, to
be charged with hav-
ing no visible means
of support. They
had, they said, slept
in the park for
three nights and had not eaten for
three days. When the magistrate sug-
gested that she be sent to a home, the
woman asked, “But what happens to my
husband?” “I’ll go there, too,” he said.
“We’ll get cleaned up and be respectable
again.” I wonder if the patrons of high-
class joints where the press photographs
them guzzling champagne ever find time
to ponder on such cases.
* * * *
“Wester”: Big prize cups (B. 1 /11 / ’39)!
A western N.S.W. branch of the Buffaloes
Lodge announced a cricket match for a
cup donated by the branch. That evening
the astounded populace gasped to see a
motor-lorry groaning along the street
under the weight of an enormous con-
crete bowl moulded in the accepted form
of the sporting trophy. It must have
weighed a ton, and the Buffs, joyfully
claimed that it would hold enough to
ensure plenty for players and spectators
alike. The match drew a record crowd.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Sydney alderman E. S.
Marks’s move to see that all the city s
waste is treated for commercial residues,
with “Don’t waste the waste” as a slogan,
recalls “Professor” Bustard, who 45 years
a°o put forward plans for a destructor
which would sort out the rubbish poured
into its chutes, and segregate metal and
material suitable for paper-making and
various other uses. The old chap made a
modest fortune out of various inventions.
He built himself the first electrically-
equipped house in Sydney (at Randwick),
and put in it many appliances not yet in
general use.
FALSE FRIENDS.
“Count of primary votes revealed that four candi-
dates for the N.S.W. Leg. Council had not received
a single vote, even their nominators and seconders
having failed to support them.”
Their sponsors smacked them on the back, one
fancies,
After they filled the needful papers in,
Discoursed encouragingly on their chances
And bade them heartily “Go in and win!”
They gave them what amounts to moral
backing,
With all that this elastic phrase denotes;
Only material support was lacking—
They wouldn’t give them votes.
They certified their men with airy freedom
As speakers competent to wag their jaws
And exercise the right of M.L.C.-dom
To pass or block Assembly-fashioned laws.
They guaranteed them persons fit and proper
Blows for this faction or for that to strike,
To carry out its aims and put a stopper
On bills it didn’t like.
They sent them forth (no doubt) with cheery
wishes
Their entries might successfully compete
With chaps less favored for the loaves and
fishes
Ever awaiting in Macquarie-street.
They pushed them out into the fray and friction
Parliamentarians are always at
With (possibly) a gentle benediction —
But nothing more than that.
The blokes they’d backed on paper were, they
reckoned —
Albeit it seems a little bit unkind—
Quite suitable to nominate and second
But not the sort to put their weight behind.
To warrant them O.K. they’d no objection,
But when the sheep were yarded from the
goats
By the expedient of an election
They couldn’t spare them votes.
N.S.W,
IFORD.


“Bo”: . I rejoice to observe that the
science of detection, though the “who-
dunit” fictionists have done their worst,
is not yet dead, even in the offices of
daily newspapers. Sydney “Sun’s” war-
cable man let it through that a German
airman whose body had been washed
up on the English coast from the North
Sea had obviously committed suicide to
save himself from dying of exposure in
that chill expanse of water, the supposi-
tion being based on a bullet wound in his
temple and an empty revolver in its
holster. After that had been published
in the first edition the “Sun’s” sleuths
must have reconsidered the matter,
arriving at the profound deduction, that
a man, after he had suicided, could not
re-holster the weapon. So in the “final
extra” edition, “an empty revolver
holster” was given as the clue to the
alleged felo-de-se.
* H* *
“Avon”: The sinking of a fishing
launch in Lyttelton Harbor (M.L.) and
the death of its master and owner, 64-
year-old James Brassell, was shown at
the inquest to be the outcome of a
tragedy of errors. Brassell’s assistant,
who had previously denied that any signal
was given from the fort whence the
shot was fired, admitted that a signal
was given, but it was not understood.
Evidence for the military was to the
effect that the intention had been to fire
a shot “at least 20 yards ahead” of the
launch’s bows, but either the gun-layer
made an error or the deflection scale was
at fault. Verdict was merely a recital
of the evidence as bearing on
the cause of death. Brassell’s
funeral was one of the biggest
ever seen in the port, and the
list of folk who sent wreaths was
headed by Defence Minister
Jones.
“K.P.”: Most people know that insulin
controls diabetes, few how, when or
why it got its name. In 1922 a young
Canadian doctor named F. G. Banting
got thinking oyer three facts. One was
that if a dog’s pancreas is removed it
dies rapidly of diabetes. The second was
that if you merely diverted the pan-
creatic duct outside the dog, so to speak,
it doesn’t get diabetes. The third was
that if you tie the pancreatic duct the
pancreas shrivels up except for certain
cellular masses which do not communi-
cate with the duct, and again there is
no diabetes. He reasoned that if you
could inject an extract of those particular
cells into a dog after removing its pan-
creas there should be no diabetes. After
months of work at the Toronto Univer-
sity he found that it worked for dogs.
Then a Dr. Gilchrist, dying of diabetes,
volunteered as a human test. He re-
covered. The cellular masses are called
by physiologists Islands of Langerhans,
insula is Latin for an island hence
insulin. Banting refused to patent his
discovery, though it would have made
him a multi-millionaire.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide City Council has
decided not to move the statue of Queen
Victoria which stands in the middle of
the roadway in the square that bears her
name. It was not a memorial, but the
gift of a private citizen during her life-
time, and for nearly half a century it
has been an island, London fashion,
dividing four streams of vehicles in the
exact centre of the city. The City Coun-
cil’s traffic committee now calls it a
“menace,” and reports a lot of accidents
as happening there yearly ; but the coun-
cil itself pointed out that the roads there
are particularly wide, and that there are
far more accidents at other King William-
street corners that have no island refuge
(or obstruction). Decided by a 2-to-l
vote to leave the old Queen where she is.
“Cet a Wriggle on, lady; I'm droppin' of at the next stop."
“Hamer”: A few details that might be
added to the note re murderer Frank
Butler (B. 1/11/’39): There is a men-
tion of him in George Black’s History
of the Australian Labor Party; he was
a “very obliging” caretaker at the old
Sydney Protestant Hall, where the Labor
party in its early days held its regular
rallies. It was while he was in that job
that he inserted the advertisements for a
partner which lured Lee Weller to his
death. Poet Bernard Ingleby, lost in the
snow at Stromlo, was succored by a man
who proved an entertaining companion,
full of anecdotes of world travel. When
the Butler murders made a sensation
Ingleby realised that his companion was
Butler, probably on his way from another
of his partner-killing exploits.
* * * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”: According to
recent advices received by the Common-
“Fit you like a glove, lad! Now try this topcoat on for size .”
wealth Government, our childhood’s
friends the Siamese Twins no longer
exist. In future Siam is to be known as
Thai. Visitors to pleasant L.V.A. picnics
will regret the change when the hilarious
sprint contests between pairs of portly
gentlemen tied together at knee and ankle
are degraded to Thai races. Probably
the next move will be to rechristen the
picturesque river capital of Bangkok as
Muddville or Slush City. Dammit, aren’t
we to be left any of our fine old names?
“Spare Corp”: I wonder whether people
in Britain are facing the war with that
sturdy confidence I struck in an old iden-
tity in a village three miles from Larkhill
Camp. Sitting in a corner sipping his
beer, Gaffer was asked how he would
like to see the smiling fields there-
abouts cut up like those in the fight-
ing areas in France, criss-crossed with
trenches and filled with shell holes. “That
yere cudden be,” he asserted smugly.
“They Gairments cudden coom here.”
He was pressed for reasons, and told the
Germans might arrive any time. “Naw!”
he said triumphantly. “They cudden
coom here. The squoire, he don’ allow
naw foightin’ on his laand.”
* * * *
“A.J.8.”: The Cup reminds me of the
grandeur of The Bulletin’s performance
in 1888, when it left the job of tipping
the winner to a poet, Edmund Fisher.
Fisher produced a 13-stanza parody on
Poe’s “Raven,” with the title “More
Ravin’.” The poem describes how, while
a citizen was “sitting sadly musing on
the wagers he’d been losing, seeking com-
fort brief in boozing,” there came to him
a derelict in fantastic pants. The refrain
of each verse but the last is “Quoth the
loafer, ‘Back Mentor,’ ” and of the last:
“His words of mystic meaning it were
madness to ignore ; for the Cup I’ll back
Mentor.” And Mentor won! The poet
recorded afterwards that he “laid out the
better part of his landed properties at 7 to
1, and afterwards wondered how there
could be any poverty and suffering in the
world while such tips were obtainable
for 6d.”
H= H= H= H:
“Bohemian”: The German air raids
on Scotland may be regarded as evidence
that the Germans haven’t forgotten what
happened at Scapa Flow. But there’s an
earlier outrage that rankles. Shortly after
the Franco-Prussian War Bismarck paid
a visit to Dundee in his yacht. On a
cold, frosty Sunday morning Bis. walked
briskly up and down the wharf loudly
whistling. A Scotch policeman went up
to him and, abruptly tapping him on the
shoulder, said: “Ye must nae whustle on
the Sawbath.” If a Teutonic glare could
kill a Scot the copper must have died
then and there, but he survived. Bis.
stamped his way up the gangway of his
ship and roared to the captain to get up
steam and depart, and he never visited
Scotland again.
* H= * *
“Pitt-street”: Wonder if this war
will produce anything like the Billy
Book, a hilarious pictorial record of
Billy Hughes’s invasion
of Europe, drawn by
Low? It struck south-
west Riverina’s risible
faculties with such
force that the old mul-
berry tree at Tapalin
was bent by the gale of
joy that swept the river.
Grim old hatters who
hadn’t grinned for years
came out of their bends
with aching ribs and
dislocated jaws, and
down at Wentworth the
meanest skipper on the
river gave his crew a
whole hour’s holiday on
full pay! Unfortunately
this time the centre of
the political stage isn’t occupied by any-
thing nearly as picturesque as the Billy
of 1914-1918.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide Court has regis-
tered a new bit of legally “offensive”
language. A jockey at a trotting meeting,
being annoyed with the official vet., called
him, among other things, a “guts-
runner.” The P.M., asking for the mean-
ing, if any, was informed that it is a
butcher’s term for a “bowel-dresser, ’
which had to be still further translated
as “one who cleans parts of animals’
bowels to make skins for sausages.” Two
pound and costs.
* * * *
“C.Q.”:
On Saturday, 26th October, will be in-
augurated The First Beauty Carnival Ever
Held Beneath the Sunny Skies of the Aus-
tralias —The Women of our glorious
summer land have ever been noted for
their Wondrous Charms of Face and
Figure, and the directors of the Carnival
of Beauty have determined to gratify the
admiring eyes of The Great Public of Mel-
bourne with the contemplation of a
Galaxy of Beauties Selected from the Peer-
less Damsels of This Marvellous Metropolis.
There will be distributed amongst the
Fairest of the Fair Two Hundred
Sovereigns in Prizes. Open to ladies of
17 upwards.
No, that isn’t the announcement of a
beauty contest in connection with Mel-
bourne’s Spring Carnival. It was a pub-
lican’s ad. published in 1889, regarded
as the bleakest period of wowserism in
Melbourne’s history.
* * *
From “Jack Propagander”:
In Sydney last week faith in the elevating
influences of good company suffered two
shocks. One came when - “Mr. Romano
Orlando Azzalin, of Romano’s restaurant,” as
my favorite fiapper-papgr put it, was fined
£5OO for having “knowingly and wilfully under-
stated his income” for the twelvemonth to June
30, 1936, which income, returned by Mr.
Romano, etc., at £l9BB, had been reckoned
by the Commonwealth Taxation Department at
£11,959. The “monkey” is only part of
what Mr. Romano, etc., will have to separate
himself from: he is liable for double tax, and
for the 1936 year Commonwealth tax on in-
comes exceeding £6900 soared to 6s. 4Jd. in
the £ on the excess. His laps© is all the more
extraordinary since one of his close associates
is a Boss Cop and another is a Senator, now
a member of the Ministry—though he wasn’t
in 1936. In this improving society Mr.
Romano, etc., must many a time and oft been
impelled to sing:
I know not, I care not, where Eden may be.
But I know I’m in ex-cellent cuh-huh-
huhm-panee!
Yet quite evidently the high legislative and
administrative association was wasted on him
as a taxpayer.
The second shock was furnished during the
long-drawn-out hearing of the criminal charges
relating to the affairs of the Scottish Loan Co.,
so called possibly because ancestors of worthies
copiously mentioned—only one on the charge-
sheet-reached Scotland by the craft that car-
ried Jonah. The private cashbooks of Wool-
cott-Forbes, alias Louis Brandei, were pro-
duced. One entry was “Dinner to B. S. B.
Stevens, September 7, 1937, £1 Is.”—a public
dinner, it seems. Another was “U.A.P., Feb. 10,
1937, £1000.” Splendid! Unhappily the moral
exaltation exhibited by these entries must have
been as transient as a socialite’s complexion.
There followed a long list of payments to
bookmakers and other “sports,” of losses on
untrustworthy steeds and bad settlings (Warwick
Farm, £lOO, £4OO and £590: Moorefield and
Victoria Park, £729; Rosehill, £315, £BO and
£1580; Randwick, £3OO, £7OO, £350, and so on),
all set down during the period when Forbes,
alias Brandei, was known as “The Bullfighter,”
and figured in sporting prints as a Dashing
Punter whose onslaughts on the Ring were
shaking it to its foundations. t
Forbes, alias Brandei, was the big fish that
got away.
“SUMER IS ICUMEN IN.”
As often as November lobs along
I find my memory will backward stray
To that old monk who wrote the “Cuckoo
Song”
A world and seven centuries away,
Though in his case ’twas obviously May
Incited him to grab his quill and spin
That light and immemorial roundelay
Announcing “Sumer is icumen in.”
Into his list’ning ear the telltale bird
Trilled out its message from the woodland
bough;
The ewe a-bleating for her lamb he heard
And, lowing for her new-born calf, the cow;
Indubitable tokens, then as now,
On which a rural bard his faith could pin
And indicate precisely why and how
He knew that “Sumer is icumen in.”
Here in these city and suburban streets
We may not look to Nature for a sign
In avian melodies or ovine bleats
To warn us of the merry spring’s decline,
But bar-room calls bespeaking “Beer foi
mine,”
In preference to whisky, rum or gin,
And dainty “Spooners” drying on the line
Suggest that “Sumer is icumen in.”
The radiator’s occupation’s gone,
Or will be soon. In office and in store
Invigorating fans will whirl anon.
Discarded are the furs Milady wore.
The flapper’s nose gets powdered more and
more,
Ever more lightly garbed the mannequin.
And —dash it!—here’s the iceman at the
door,
Last proof that “Sumer is icumen in.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


9iL J °J 001
9/1 "1 0Z
01
JOl
a 6
OS
JOl
■
W*
m
W'
For greater
smoking enjoyment
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
% m
.
281?
POLITICAL POINTS
“The Allies can’t beat Germany. We
demand an immediate peace.” That cry
was heard in Australia in June, 1918 ;
and the same cry is coming from the
same quarter to-day. Quitters never
change.
Minister Foil has been quoted as say-
ing there will be a “tremendous boom”
in Australia after the war. Let us have
planned industrial progress by all means
(with, of course, adoption of a one-
Parliament system and redistribution of
population), but tremendous boom—no.
Tremendous booms always burst tremen-
dously.
Litvinov and Dmitrov sat behind
Molotov when that clumsy quitter gassed
their whole policy away at Moscow, and
it is recorded that the two unhappy
rejects cheered. In imagination each
must have felt the muzzle of Stalin’s
pistol at the back of his neck.
The coalminers have been awarded
their 40-hour week, but the engineers are
expected to work longer. Hence another
coal stoppage. It is a very poor adver-
tisement for industrial arbitration of the
long-drawn-out legal variety.
“S. M. Herald” admits that “the un-
popularity of the” Sydney “Government’s
taxation proposals” and the wild way in
which they were slammed on the Statute-
book have “fanned to fresh life an old
and hardly helpful suggestion that State
Parliaments should be abolished.”
- “Hardly helpful” is significant, since the
old paper has all its days been a fervent
champion of the encumbrance in Mac-
quarie-street. On its own showing “we
have a new despotism of the Executive,”
and “the new despotism” is below the
intellectual standard of a ratcatcher.
Sir Nevile Henderson On what the
Stunt Press and its Famous American
Correspondents still at times refer to as
“the betrayal of Munich.”
Hitler was no more bluffing in Septem-
ber, 1938, than he was bluffing in August,
1939. There was no Eastern front to give
him cause for hesitation in 1938, and he
could have counted then on Hungarian as
well as Polish support in his nefarious
plans for the dismemberment of Czecho-
slovakia. But for Munich he would
without a shadow of doubt have invaded
that country on September 29 last year,
and the war would have come 11 months
earlier.
So Chamberlain was right, and the gain
of 11 months was precious. A war to
“prevent the dismemberment of Czecho-
slovakia” couldn’t have been won.
American Reds and Parlor Pinks must
be having a worse time than ever since
Molotov attacked the U.S. Government
on the score of its efforts for Finland,
and Congress on its Neutrality Act
amendments —still under discussion when
the unspeakable ass yapped, but now
through both Houses and signed by the
President. Unless the Commonwealth
Government interdicts immigration of all
doubtful aliens for the duration and 20
years after, some of Uncle’s unwanted
Reds may head this way.
Lang’s paper the “Century” has been
declared “black” by the Reds. It seems to
have done him more good than harm ;
anyway, the Lang ticket scored at the
Leg. Council election, whereas Left-
Wingers fared very badly. With the
“Daily News” behind him (he is manag-
ing director) a Sunday paper trumpeting
his praises and coalminer members
ordered to vote for him, Nelson, the
Miners’ Federation president, was ex-
pected to gain one of the 15 seats. But he
collected only four primary votes, and
couldn’t muster sufficient preferences.
And Hughes, president of the Labor
Council, named third on the “industrial-
ist” ticket, got one primary vote.
Just before the N.S.W. “Parliament”
closed down for four months, Mair, the
stopgap Premier, mumbled something
about there having been 141 sitting days.
“And what have you achieved in the
141 days?” asked the member for Hurst-
ville. A deficit approaching £5,000,000,
another (estimate, £1,500,000) on the way,
a litter of incomprehensible bills, a lot
more legalised robbery designed to bring
in another £4,000,000 in nine months,
and an electorate reduced to a state of
speechless indignation.
“Italy is turning farther away from
Germany, and the twilight of the Axis
era in Fascist policy is at hand.” Thus
“S. M. Herald,” swallowing hard, there
being four years of invective to swallow.
And now perhaps Granny will give up
sneering at “Hitler’s Axis partner.”
Mr. Brown, of the Post Office, has
been succeeded by Mr. McVey, of the
Supply Department. Mr. McVey may be
succeeded by Mr. Brigden, “Economic
“The Prime Minister has been hinting that he is ready for an election if leaders of
the other parties do not stop nagging about his war policy.”
“Archie, will you please stop shoving!”
Adviser to the Supply Department an,d
recently head of the National Insurance
Commission.” Mr. McVey himself, until
appointed to Supply, was on the National
Insurance Commission under Mr. Brig-
den. National Insurance is certainly
having a spectacular funeral.
All the time-expired members who
nominated for re-electjon to the N.S.W.
Leg. Council got in again. Five (Pratten,
Howie, Allen Taylor, Holden and Binksj
are U.A.P., two (Bassett and Henley)
C.P. and two (Mullins and Tannock)
Labor; Coates, though Federal Labor
once', is now no-party. New members are
Dickson and Downing (Labor), Thompson
(U.A.P.), Eggins (C.P.) and Parry, un-
labelled but chairman of the Sydney
County Council. Members of both
Houses are the electors, and 145 voted.
One ballot-paper was invalid, a distinct
improvement on past performances.
Canberra’s way of making high ap-
pointments in and out of the Post Office
has legitimately ambitious employees of
that concern baffled and resentful. One of
Mr. Brown’s lieutenants was placed in
charge of Civil Aviation. Another was
sent to London as Australia House secre-
tary. Into the vacancy left by Mr. Brown
goes a gentleman who, though trained
as a P.M.G. man, has of recent years
been on the Public Service Board and the
National Insurance Commission and in
the Supply Department. He is a returned
soldier ; but there were other returned
soldiers with unexceptionable qualifica-
tions who were kept in the department.
Sydney “D.T.” asks itself a question:
What’s Our Pacific Policy?
What it is now no man knows, but the
“D.T.” should know what it was. In
1937 and 1938 it was Positive Action
Against Japan, under American leader-
ship, and in 1939 Alliance with the
Mighty Soviet Republic against Germany
and Japan. Then the war obliged the
“D.T.” to start whatting.
The great Clarrie Martin, chairman of
the “new” Sydney Parliamentary Labor
party, speaking from the same Domain
platform as Communists:
Conscription means placing the iron heel
of a military caste on the necks of the
people. Compulsory training, for which
the Menzies Government has no mandate,
Is the first step towards conscription.
Menzies can claim a very good man-
date for compulsory training in time of
war. It is to be found in the Defence
Acts. Anyway, without bothering about
mandates, Russia has compulsory train-
ing and conscription. And presumably
Russia is still holy to the Left Book Club,
of which Martin is still presumably
a shining light.
Mr. Knickahbockah, the Famous
American Correspondent, has tracked
down a new German plan—“to send the
existing French population partly to
North Africa and partly to French and
Belgian Congo, thus enabling 20,000,000
or 30,000,000 Germans comfortably to
settle in France.” It would need only the
destruction of the French and British
armies, navies and air forces (the Belgian
army and air force could be taken in a
stride), the herding of 35,000,000 sur-
viving French to the coast and shipping
to carry them to Africa. Mere trifles to
a Famous American Correspondent.
Income tax, probate duties and rail-,
way rates are up in Westralia, and “motor
license fees collected in the metropolitan
area” are to be “transferred to consoli-
dated revenue.” Premier Willcock ex-
plains that his Government is “following
the canons of taxation.” He means that
it is firing the cannons of taxation, and
those are cannons that never cease.
Westralian Labor accepts the Leg.
Council to the extent of paying its mem-
bers £6OO p.a. out of the Commonwealth
grant (more for President and Chair-
man) and giving them passes over the
Government railways and tramways.
But when the Council tried to block
the rise in railway freight-rates the Gov-
ernment reimposed them “under another
section of the Railways Act which per-
mits freight-rates to be varied without
Parliamentary sanction.” Thus the
State Parliamentary system marches on
—to the scrapheap.
“Co-ordination of road, rail and tram
transport” has been recommended to
the Melbourne Ministry, which is with-
out a Melbourne representative, by one
of those committees which spring up
like capeweed—“the State Economic
Committee,” in this instance. The
“Argus” praises it as “a commonsense
reform which should have been carried
through years ago.” It looks all right
on paper, but in practice it is apt to
mean the stifling of commercial road
transport in the interests of Government
railways which have a giant appetite for
tax-money. That is the N.S.W. ex-
perience.
Four armored cars have been driven
from Melbourne to Sydney, and more
are coming. Not only a dreadful in-
vasion of State Railway Department
“rights” but a felon blow at the claim
that bankrupt Government railways with
a break of gauge at the border are of
priceless military value. Railways were
a washout during the Polish campaign,
and one of the British army corps in
France made the whole journey from
the coast to the front, carrying every-
thing required, by road.
Our Mr. Casey, arrived in London,
explained what he had coihe for in
the first instance:
My job is to build up in the minds of
the Australian Government exactly what
is happening here.
Sounds as if Mr. Casey were a worker
in brick or stone. Do “the minds of
the Australian Government” really re-
quire the slow laying of one slab of
information on another, and will Mr.
Casey have to finish off his work with
a trowel?
There should be glorious trips in
store for Australian Ministers of Health
when the war is over; and, like Words-
worth’s infant, the gentlemen could
sing “We are seven.” FitzSimons, the
'Sydney Minister of Health, back —with
the usual retinue —from a bobbydazzler
of a wander-year, modestly observes that
“if I had gone abroad three or four
years ago costly mistakes in this State
could have been avoided.”
Why health has always been a Cinderella
in this part of the world, Heaven only
knows.
Very likely it is because there has been
a superfluity of Ministers and depart-
ments. In the country where Fitz-
Simons made most of his “investiga-
tions” there is one Minister with one
department whose functions are de-
centralised.
Sydney land-agents and house-agents
are railing at “the Commonwealth’s be-
nighted financial policy,” the finanshul
institooshuns being no longer keen on
financing Stevens’s co-operative building
societies, even though the Sydney Gov-
ernment guarantees principal and interest.
Land values and building costs rose
briskly with the Government guarantees,
and at present rates the 100,000 new
houses alleged to be needed in Sydney
would, if built in brick areas, cost
£80,000,000. The demand is that the
Commonwealth Bank should find the
money somehow, the theory being it is
the natural destiny of huge wens to
grow huger than ever.
In New York a five-cent fare has been
the means of effecting a transfer of popu-
lation to outer suburbs. In Sydney the
farther people move out to places where
land is comparatively cheap the more
they are stung by Government transport
commissions.


DECORATION.


Tlie Richardson Chain Hotel
m
n
r i !
H
'.l 3l v I V'
V 1 < 11
i-i 1 » 1 ■:.. , : •
13.31
ri
MELBOURNE’S
MOST
MODERN
HOTEL
200
ROOMS
200
BATHS
THE HOTEL ALEXANDER
122-132 Spencer Street. Melbourne
(Opposite Kail way Station).
Rates Per Day:
Room and Meals from .... 22/6
Room and Breakfast from.. 12/6
’Phone: M 4 I 4 ! flO lines).
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
INVESTMENT IN WAR-TIME
THE ECONOMIC FRONT
MONTH’S BALANCE SHEETS REVIEWED
MINES AND METALS
November Issue Now on Sale.
PRICE 21- PER COPY, or £l/216 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Pnbli.hed bv The Bulletin Nevy.pnper Co. Pty.. Ltd.. 252 Geor-e St.eeb Sydney, and .11 Staten
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The N.S.W. Leg. Council poll was
topped by Graham Pratten. Pratten is
one of the few legislators who have come
back; elected for Federal Martin
(N.S.W.) in 1928 after the death of that
good Protectionist Herbert Pratten,
Minister of Customs, who was his
uncle, the young man lost the seat in
1929. He looks after the family’s ex-
tensive mining interests.
Though he left Labor when Lang
started his performances and has never
joined any other party, Joe Coates had
a comfortable win at the N.S.W. Upper
House election, and it is alleged that
“many members of both Houses were
surprised.” Perhaps they were ; but, be-
sides being a well-informed speaker with
unshakable convictions, Coates is very
good company ; and “many members of
both Houses” like to have that sort of
man about the place. As a mimic Coates
rivals Harold Millington, the Westralian
Minister of Works, who is expected to
give a turn whenever inter-State poli-
ticians forgather for a conference and
Millington is of the party. Joseph’s best
performance is an imitation of Willie
Kelly (from Eton) and The Bulletin’s
John Dailey (from Oxford) addressing
the free and unwashed of Wentworth
(N.S.W.) in 1903, followed by a word
picture of the free and unwashed biting
each candidate’s ear when he issued
from the hall.
Among the delegates to a conference
on international affairs held in Sydney
last year was a genial Canadian lawyer,
Charles J. Burchall, K.C., of Halifax,
who left with a promise that he would
return to see a lot more of Australia.
He will return in a few months’ time as
Canadian High Commissioner to Aus-
tralia. He is 63, a leading authority on
shipping law, and a mighty Rotarian. He
has represented Canada at shipping con-
ferences in London.
Commander George Davies Williams,
Controller of Shipping now we’re at war,
is, as might be guessed, a Welshman, born
at St. Dogmaels 60 years ago. A sue-
COMMANDER G. D. WILLIAMS.
cessful career in the mercantile marine
was diverted in 1914 by naval war ser-
vice that included the Zeebrugge show
and spells in the Australia and Sydney.
Latterly he has occupied important
maritime jobs in Australia (Acting-
Superintendent of Navigation was one
of them), and for the last six years he
has been vice-president of the Maritime
Services Board of N. S. Wales. He’s a
keen yachtsman.
Dead in Perth, at 75, John Tucker had
presided over the welfare of school-
children for 50 years—27 of them with
the Westralian Education
Department. From 1904
until he retired in 1928 he
ruled over Thomas-street
school, as much an educa-
tional institution as Perth
Modern School, the Gov-
ernment secondary college
which it faces across the
street. Tucker worked hard
to establish Australian foot-
ball in State schools, and in
1906, with J. J. Simons and
the late R. H. Hocking,
founded the Young Aus-
tralia Football League,
which later gave birth to
the Y.A.L., of which Tucker
was first president. Since
1928 he had given most of
his time to the Y.A.L.
John Cullen (for years
Maoriland’s Commissioner
of Police, but long ago re-
tired) has passed over at 89.
A native of Leitrim and a
member of the Royal Irish
Constabulary, he migrated
to Maoriland, and linked up
with the Permanent Artil-
lery. When this was dis-
solved he joined the police,
his first station being Blen-
heim. In the early days of
the King Country he earned
promotion by trapping sly-
grog sellers. When ad-
vanced to Commissioner he had to deal
with the Waihi strike, which he handled
with tact. In the watersiders’ strike he
was fired on in Wellington—the bullet
narrowly missing. His last important job
was quelling turbulent Ngapuhis in the
Bay of Islands. They were interfering
with the sittings of the Native Land
Court. Cullen, by a cunning ruse, was
able to arrest all the native leaders.
Like his predecessor, H. P. Brown,
Daniel McVey, the new Director-General
of Posts and Telegraphs, hails from
Britain, having been bom
at Falkirk 47 years ago. He
started as a junior in the
Postal Department, served
in the 1914-18 war for four
years as an officer in the
45th Battery, A.F.A., and
was for a while metropoli-
tan postal engineer in Bris-
bane. From 1930 to 1933
he was Assistant Superin-
tendent of Mails, and from
1933 to 1937 Superinten-
dent at Sydney. McVey is
married, and plays golf.
Devon-born Stephen
Bartlett, who has died in
Brisbane at 95, was in the
Black Sea as boy on a Brit-
ish trading ship during the
Crimean War. Arriving in Queens-
land 73 years ago he grew sugar
near Brisbane, went to the Palmer River
(N.Q.) gold rush, and then joined the
Harbors and Rivers Department. As a
warrant officer in the old Queensland
Defence Force, he had ships’-husband
care of the entire Queensland fleet —
Gayundah (washed up into the Botani-
cal Gardens by a flood), Paluma
(she took Queensland troops to China in
the Pekin campaign), Midge and Mos-
quito.
T. B. W. (“Jimmy”) James, news of
whose death is cabled from England,
was adjutant under Bridges at Duntroon
when it started in 1911. In the war he
earned a D.S.O. and the rank of colonel.
He was never quite the same man after
1918, though for a little while he com-
manded a battery at Maribyrnong
barracks.
Harold Malcolm Watts Sargent, better
known to Australians as Dr. Sargent, is
one of the world’s hardest-working and
most versatile conductors. Bom at Stam-
ford, Lincolnshire, 44 years ago, he won
MALCOLM SARGENT.
(Modelled by Frith.)
the Sawyer Prize of the Royal College of
Organists, and became an Associate in
1910. He graduated Mus.B. in 1914. His
term as organist at Melton Mowbray was
interrupted by the 1914-18 war, in which
he saw service with the 27th Durham
Light Infantry. He got his doctorate in
1919, studied pianoforte under Benno
Moiseiwitsch,and made his first important
appearance as a conductor in 1921. He’s
conductor of orchestral classes and a
professor at the R.C.M., conductor for
a whole raft of English choral festivals,
orchestras and the like, has conducted
London Gilsullivan seasons since 1926,
steered Diaghilef’s Ballet through a three
years’ season, is the musical director for
British International Films, and has, with
orchestra, made a lot of H.M.V. records.
He’s a composer, too. Australia first
made his acquaintance three years ago,
and both orchestras and audiences have
found him very likeable. Dr. Sargent is
married, with a son and daughter, and
likes riding, theatregoing and zoos.
“Tiny” Freyberg, V.C., the Maori-
lander who won distinction at Gallipoli
by his ruse in deceiving the Turks that a
landing was to be made at the Bui air
lines by swimming ashore and lighting
flares, retired from the British Army a
couple of years ago with rank as Major-
General Freyberg. Not 50 yet he has
sniffed the air of battle again, and has
been given a command. “Tiny” married
a sister of Mrs. Reginald McKenna, and
had the intention of entering politics. In
his youth he did dentistry work in Syd-
ney. He got his V.C. at 26 and was in
charge of a brigade at 27.
Jack Sorensen, a Bulletin bard from
Westralia, who blew into 252 George-
street one day last week, fits in with the
general idea of a rhymester whose verses
have seen print in the “Aboriginalities
page. Jack, a healthy-looking lad with
the physique of a middleweight boxer—
he had about 30 fights in the ring in
the West during his early days —was born
at Kalgoorlie, where his father was a
mine manager. As a young fellow he
worked on various stations in the nor -
west, and entered the newspaper game
about eight years ago—he is with the
United Press. Inspired by the works
of “Dryblower” Murphy and “Bluebush
Bourke, he began stringing rhymes to-
gether, and is now, to borrow a phrase
from A. G. Stephens, one of the “manly
poets of the West.” His “Southbound
’Plane,” printed in The Bulletin, made
quite a hit, and his first book of poems,
The Lost Shanty, published early this
year, collected a sheaf of fine reviews.
Sorensen is on the committee of the W.A.
section of the Fellowship of Australian
Writers, whose leading lights, Gavin
Casey, Henrietta Drake - Brockman,
Katharine Prichard, Ted Mayman and
John K. Ewers, are fellow Bulletin
scribes.
Captain Reg Sheppard, youngest of
Qantas Empire Airways flying-boat com-
manders, dead in Sydney at 33, joined the
R.A.A.F. as a wireless operator in 1927
and three years later graduated sergeant-
pilot. In four years of service flying he
piloted every type of landplane, seaplane
and amphibian used by the R.A.A.F.
Sheppard joined Q.E.A. as first officer on
the D.H.86 Brisbane-Singapore service,
and in May, 1937, was promoted to com-
mand. With the changeover from land
’planes to Empire flying-boats on the
England-Australia service in July, 1938,
he was promoted commander on the
Sydney-Singapore section. He left behind
the proud record of 5600 hours of pilot-
ing without having strained a wire.
Colonel Samuel Roy Burston, ap-
pointed Deputy-Director of Medical Ser-
vices with the 2nd A.1.F., comes of a
family with fine military traditions, his
father being Major-General James Burs-
ton, who commanded an infantry brigade
on Gallipoli. Col. Burston, who is 51,
graduated M.B. and B.S. at Melbourne
Uni. in 1910, served throughout the 1914-
18 war as a medical officer (Gallipoli,
COL. ROY BURSTON.
France, Egypt), winning the D.S.O. and
military C.8.E., and wound up as Deputy
Director of Medical Services, 4th District
Base. He’s an M.R.C.P. (Edin.), and has
been lecturer in clinical medicine at Adel-
aide Uni. since 1931. For the last two
years he has been on the board of the
8.M.A., and has maintained his military
connection since 1920 as Deputy Director
of Medical Services for the 4th Aus-
tralian District. Plays tennis and golf,
and is married, with a family.


CUUXhCxjjA
MELBOURNE
Twice. Daily -2.15-6
THE WORLD-FAMOUS MILES BKOS
4 Hoys and a Guitar.
New Oversea Stars.
EAST DAYS.
NICK LUCAS,
The Singing Troubatlor.
SCOTT SANDERS, Famous Comedian
and. New Stars.
SUNDRY
SHOWS
AT THE TALKIES.
A pity that Hitler has practically stopped
production in England. They began
there a long way behind Hollywood in
technique, but were steadily bridging the
gap, and had shown that, in a certain
kind of film, they could beat Hollywood
hollow. Now they’ll be pushed back to
scratch again, and Hollywood will tighten
its grip on the markets here and else-
where. The English product, like the
Australian, until recently had a tough
job getting even a hearing. It’ll be poor
business if that has to be gone through
again a bit later on, just because Britain’s
at war and Hollywood isn’t.
* * * *
Meanwhile, there’s now a fair supply of
good entertainment to pick from round
Sydney film houses. “Bachelor Mother,”
warranted to make almost any woman
crack the rib pinched for her benefit
some years ago, is going great guns at
the Plaza, where it’s been making them
bellow for a month. “Four Feathers,”
one of the best technicolor action films
ever turned out, is packing them into
the Regent. Of the rest, “Stanley and
Livingstone” at the Century, and a neat
little French modern film, “Abus de Con-
fiance,” at the Savoy. Also last week’s
two new releases, adding Charles Laugh-
ton and Gary Cooper to the list, respec-
tively in “The Beachcomber” and “Beau
Geste.” Both the St. James (where they’d
astonishingly had two duds in succession)
and the Liberty turn on more new stuff
to-day (Wednesday), the St. James’s a
film version of “The Women.”
* * * *
“The Beachcomber”
This Page had an early view of
Charles Laughton in “The Beach-
comber” now at Sydney State and
reported approvingly on it at the time,
(B.' 27/9/’39). It can be recommended
out of hand to Laughton addicts and
any who like to be sure beforehand that
their film entertainment’s going to be
cheerfully diverting.
It’s that pretty well the whole way ;
even when Laughton and Elsa Lanchester
(Mrs. Laughton) have to go to a
junglesome isle and persuade the tom-
tom walloping savages to line up for
typhoid inoculation, it’s made as agree-
able as possible. For the rest, it’s excel-
lent comedy, worth inspecting if for
no other reason than to see Laughton
add with ease a straight comedy role
to his expanding repertoire. He’s Ginger
Ted, remittance-man beachcombah in a
jollay old boatah on a ballay old tropic
outpost of the Dutch Empiah, ruled ovah
by a Dutch johnnie always more or less
torn between tossing vriend Ted in der
booby hatch or having ’eem in for visky-
sodah.
To the island medico-missionary and
that worthy man’s sister Ted’s an incor-
rigible lump of scum, and the main
business of the film is showing
propinquity at work humanising the very
starchy female to be a fit and proper
mate for a Ted who’s steadily reforming
under the same benign influence. The
ending’s just a bit too neat to be at all
convincing, but the rest’s extra good
by virtue of topnotch acting, brisk
action and the humor of the Somerset
Maugham dialogue.
Hi * ❖ *
The first Laughton film to be shown
in Sydney, “Payment Deferred,” had its
airing at the State, as support to an
atrocious American film. After a week
Laughton was promoted to head place
on the bill, and the Hollywood effort
relegated to second place. The same
procedure won’t occur with the present
bill, the support —“Jane Steps Out,” an
English product —being as appalling as
“The Beachcomber” —also English is
topnotch.
H: * * *
“Beau Geste”
P. C. Wren's yarn of derring-do in the
Furrun Legion was done as a film some
years ago and, by standards then, made
a lusty stretch of entertainment. As
seen in the latest version at Sydney Prince
Edward there’s great improvement in
acting, photography and presentation,
but the yarn about the young cove who
lifted the fake sapphire and lit out to
join the Legion so that nobody would
discover that his aunt had popped the
genuine article has in the meantime been
served up in 973,284 supports and as
many comic strips.
Asking Gary Cooper to play the main
role is equivalent to asking him to play
Red Riding Hood or Speed Gordon, and
he’d make just as entertaining a job of
either as he does here. Anything he
does seems completely natural. In this
film he careers downstairs and grasps a
halberd from a suit of armor to execute
a mouse, but when the beastie emerges
beside his number nines and washes be-
hind its ears he comes out in a sweat
and makes a mental note to bring it a
bit of cheese that evening ; and it’s the
best bit of acting in the film.
Possibly because he isn’t much in-
volved in the jewel-pinching business
Charles Laughton, roused from a bender on the beach by Elsa Lanchester, appeal-
ing to his finer feelings with a brolly, in “The Beachcomber, at Sydney State.
Brian Donlevy is able to build up his
role as the fire-eatin’ sergeant until it
dominates even Cooper’s performance.
Donlevy, like Cooper, has never in this
commentator’s recollection turned on a
dud performance, and his latest effort
should cause Beery, McLaglen and co.
to look to their talents. Others heading
a strong supporting cast are J. Carrol
Naish—one of the most able character
actors on the screen Robert Preston,
Ray Milland and James Stephenson.
Incidentally, Mr. Wren’s villains, who
originally were mainly French, have
all switched to German and Russian
monikers.
* * * *
“The Gang’s AH Here”
It’s an all-English bill at Sydney
Lyceum —light, pleasant, diverting, with-
out for a minute threatening to set the
Harbor alight.
Main item is Jack Buchanan cashing
in more completely than ever on re-
semblance to the Duke of Windsor.
There are times when an onlooker might
be prepared to swear it’s the former
Prince Teddy doing the job. The fact
that these times are when Jack, as part
of his role of humorous sleuth, is mas-
querading as a trigger-man is mentioned
with no other thought than to be
veracious: he makes a very handsome
and uncriminal gunman, so much so
that if the whole thing wasn’t farce it’d
be shockingly bad work.
As it is, the effort to keep up the
appearance -while talking and acting as
a crack gunman is almost too much even
for farce. That isn’t helped by a good
deal of wooden acting by others, among
’em the big-gun gangster and a repre-
sentative of the Yard. The British film-
smith can do better than this when he
wants to, but there are still a lot of
wooden actors that want weeding out.
Buchanan gives a typical performance,
gets the best of support from Ed. Everett
Horton, and it’s all very bright and
lively.
Support’s a spy melodrama set at a
’plane-testing h.q. on Salisbury Plains,
done with some comedy.
* * * *
“Damaged Goods”
Eugene Brieux’s old propaganda
piece, given a new suit of clothes and
some modern chromium furniture, is
played fairly well at Sydney’s Victory
Theatre by a not-very-distinguished cast.
Its lesson is as urgent now as when pre-
sented here on the legit, a score or so
of years ago, for v.d. is still under-
mining national health.
Actually a series of lectures cleverly
joined together and illustrated by the
action of the story, the picture preaches
solidly against ignorance, the mock
modesty that suppresses the truth, and
the quacks who batten on the stricken.
Both opening and ending are rather
unconvincing, but the message is there,
and, in propaganda, that’s about all
that matters.
* * * *
“Winter Carnival”
It is announced ip an introduction that
this Sydney Embassy item is dedicated
to someone or other who founded a
cahledge somewhere in Gahd’s Own with
“a Bible and a drum and five hundred
gallons of good New England rum.”
According to the film, those praiseworthy
foundations now support a cahledge sus-
piciously like a cluster of night-clubs,
where, every year, gather representatives
from cahledges all over Amurrica and
Yurrup to compete in ice sports and elect
the fairest wench as “snow queen” or
something.
It might be further deduced from the
film that the wench thus acclaimed is a
moral to fall for a slimy bit of goods in
the team from Yurrup, wed him and
so become the main headline in every
yellow tabloid journal in Gahd’s Own.
Later, if brought up according to Holly-
wood rules, she will tumble to the error
of her ways, realising that her best bet
is the hahnest professor back at cahledge
who still loves her trewly. Whereupon
she’ll dump her duke and light out for
cahledge again, returning just in time
to save her little sister from the wiles of
another batch of slimy work from
Yurrup and, etc.
Background’s a disjointed depiction of
ice and snow sports. Ann Sheridan, as
the wench, seems to have put on more
upholstery than Alice Faye and chucks
everything she has at the camera; John
Carlson, who might figure to better ad-
vantage with more suitable material,
occasionally drags the professor up to
f.a.q. rating.
STAGE AND CONCERT
Friday night’s A.B.C. concert at Syd-
ney Town Hall in aid of the Red Cross
funds drew a crowded and fashionable
audience. The crush was so great that
getting access even to reserved seats was
a lengthy process, and it was close on
20 to 9 before the first item on the pro-
gramme was commenced.
Dr. Malcolm Sargent, conducting the
A.B.C. Orchestra, had as his associate
in patriotic endeavor Australian baritone
John Brownlee. Programme was dis-
creetly selected. Orchestral contributions
were Elgar’s “Cockaigne” overture and
“Enigma” Variations, both splendidly
played, and Sibelius’s “Finlandia,” most
tuneful and most popular of the Finnish
composer’s works, which was worked up
to an almost overwhelming pitch of dig-
nity and grandeur.
Brownlee, in the highest of good spirits
and the best of voice, demonstrated why
he has won the world’s favor in Mozar-
tian operatic roles by lively renderings
of “Non piu Andrai” and the “Cham-
pagne Aria,” and a grandly sentimental
outpouring of “Deh vieni.” The “Credo”
from Verdi’s old-age opera “Otello” and
“Star of Eve,” from Tannhauser,” were
other offerings. The concert concluded
Sargent’s Sydney season in a blaze of
glory.
$ * * *
War or no war, the Digger Festival
of Remembrance show goes on at Syd-
ney Town Hall on Armistice Night.
Features are to include the 30th Batt.
band, combined schools choir, the
customary remembrance ritual, and such
soloists and other artists as Peter Daw-
son, J. Brunton Gibb, Lionel Lawson,
Raymond Beatty and Peggy Dunbar.
* * * *
A lady singer and guitarist from
Brazil, Madame Coelho, gave a series
of recitals in Sydney’s Assembly Hall
last week. She is an excellent musician
(she transcribes and harmonises all her
song accompaniments), has a pleasing
and sympathetic voice, and brings to
her guitar technique and to her treatment
of Spanish-American rhythms the touch
of the adept. Anybody can strum a
simple guitar accompaniment; it is only
to a comparative few that the instrument
opens up a new world of music—a world
which reveres such names as Ferdinand
Sor and Luigi Mozzani in the place of
Beethoven and Paderewski, and which
recalls with pride that Stradivarius also
made guitars.
Madame Coelho belongs to the few.
She is beautiful and graceful, sings be-
witchingly, and gives a little explanatory
foreword before each number. She was
ill when she gave her first Sydney recital,
and her voice had but small volume.
* * * *
The Young Australians’ Musical
Comedy and Revue Company has been
cashing in on the Cup-week craving for
theatrical relaxation at Melbourne King’s
with a varied show. Adolescent per-
formers range from an exponent of the
xylophone to a film star impersonator.
In these fell deeds 14 years has nothing
to learn from 42.
* * * *
Stanley McKay burst upon Melbourne
Apollo last week with a strangely old-
fashioned show which included a hunting
chorus, a girl who played popular airs
nicely upon the violin, Stan Foley, the
evergreen Sadie Gale and the everblue
Mo. The most popular item of the show
was the Three Diggers in harmony, circa
1914-18 a.d. Excellent attendance on
the opening night suggested a hitherto
unsuspected demand for old-time vaude-
ville.
Artbursts.
Absolutely unheralded —no pun in-
tended —an exhibition of twentieth
century British art covering 40 years
which opened at the Melbourne National
Gallery last week is attracting slight
attention from the general public and
none from the intelligentsia. Yet if any-
body can show present commentator in
what way it is one whit better or worse
than the much-vaunted “Herald” show
of moderns at the Town Hall, which was
attended by tens of thousands, he will
be much obliged.
Patrons can take their choice of
academicians of the Slade school, pseudo-
impressionists, surrealist illustrators of
Freudian dreams and exponents of the
framed pavement picture school. A small
drawing of a nude by Sickert shines like
an ordered deed in a chaotic world, but
the main impression given by the col-
lection is that contemporary London is
an offshoot of Paris, which is the home
of the laziest and stodgiest art in the
world.
If the “Herald” and the National
Gallery exhibitions were lumped together
they would represent current art fashions
excellently, but there are at least a score
of painters in Australia who have more
real artistic skill.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Ringer”: Bluey was annoyed by the
attention of the boss of the board, who
stood opposite his stand while he shore
sheep after sheep. It was affecting Bluey’s
nerves: as he nicked ewe after ewe his
language was red as the blood that ran.
The boss didn’t mind the language, but
he did lift an eyebrow when a long cut
appeared dangerously close to the hock.
Ginger, Bluey’s mate, shearing indus-
triously, wondered if he could shove in
three before smoke-oh. “What’s the time,
Blue?” he asked, without looking Up.
“Dunno,” replied the harassed one. Then,
with a side-glance at the boss of the
board, “My watch won’t go.”
* * * #
“0.W.W.”: A cobber of mine who
teaches at an outback M.L. school asked
his class “What would you call a lady
who has lost her husband?” “A widow,
sir,” replied a young pakeha promptly.
“And what do you call a man who loses
his wife?” the teacher then asked. Up
shot young Henare’s hand. “A wizard,
sir,” he said brightly.
» * * *
“Atrax”: One of Australia’s queerest,
rarest and worst-tempered animals is the
spotted cuscus of the furthest-north
Queensland rain jungles. A solidly-built
creature weighing up to 301 b., it has a
long prehensile tail, formidable claws
which it is always willing to use, and
so thick and beautiful a fur coat that it
would have been exterminated long ago
could the skin be taken off without tear-
ing it. It is a marsupial, nocturnal in
habit, and sleeps clinging to a branch
back down with its large round eyes
wide open. Most of the very few speci-
mens in captivity are at the St. John’s
Mount zoo near Townsville. It occurs also
in New Guinea and the Moluccas, and
was formerly regarded by the Torres
Strait islanders as a valuable and charm-
ing pet in spite of its beastly temper
and dangerous claws and teeth. There
is a snow-white species in New Guinea
even more snake-headed by nature than
the spotted brute.
# * * *
“E.S.S.”: Phegan, teacher of a little
bush school on the Richmond (N.S.W.),
was a stern disciplinarian, but the form
of the punishment depended upon the
current requirements of his home. One
day as school was going out Mrs. Phegan
appeared with a complaint that the water-
butt was empty. “Halt!” cried Phegan
instantly. He went along the line till
he came to a short, chubby lump of a
youth with red hair and brown legs.
“I caught you copyin’ to-day, Jack
Thompson ; it escaped my memory till
this minute,” said Phegan. “Copyin’ is
stealin’, Thompson, and stealin' must be
punished. So go you now with Mrs.
Phegan and carry 10 buckets of water
from the river.” “There’s no wood cut
either,” added Mrs. Phegan. “Ah!” said
the old chap, glancing along the line
again. “That reminds me that your
spelling this morning was atrocious, Curly
Spencer. Spell ‘wood-heap.’ ” “W-double
o-d-h-double e-p,” said Curly. “You
dunce! ” said Phegan severely. “W-o-o-d-
-h-e-a-p. Now go and cut a stack for
the stove to impress it on your mind.”
* * * *
“Ring Four”: I’ll grant “Cam Cove”
that the Cousin-Jack wheelbarrow is a
pretty stable affair with any load (B.
25/10/’39), but I won’t be convinced that
it’s a better or handier vehicle than what
he calls the “navvy barrow”—“a shallow
iron tray perched on a wheel and two
legs.” The latter design permits greater
speed, lightness and general ease of
handling and tipping, besides being much
easier to negotiate over awkward
stretches. The secret for handling any
barrow is the same as for riding a
bicycle or turning an ore-truck on a
flat-sheet —it must be kept moving, and
the faster the better. On a plankway up
the side of a sandpit or across the uneven
floor of a stope I’ll take the “navvy
“Were not on the blinkin' map!”
barrow” and give “Cam Cove” his Cousin
Jack and an hour’s start at any time,
even though the former utensil carries
only half the load of its more cumber-
some relative. A Cousin Jack against
the “navvy barrow” is comparable with
a modern motor tip-truck beside a Ger-
man wagon.
* * *
“Wrangler”: I’ve known three illiter-
ate men who could do quite in-
tricate figuring. One, a selector who
barely knew the value of a farthing,
would work out the value of his wool
clip to the ha’penny—and not only would
he be correct, but he’d do it in his own
way speedily. The other two were tank-
sinkers, fencers and general contractors.
One used three stones on the ground to
do his calculations. He’d shift them
about, concentrating earnestly, and never
a mark would appear on paper or the
ground till he’d straighten himself and
announce: “She’s just sixteen thousand
four hun’red and eighteen yards. At ten-
pence a yard that’s six hun’red an’ eighty-
four quid one an’ eight.”
* * * ■ *
“Widgemooltha”: I’ve heard a lot
about the queer doings of the bush pub-
lican, but for the philosophic acceptance
of life’s realities I nominate a pair of
hop-juice dispensers who one time kept
a pub well out from Coolgardie. One
summer the “old woman” went down
with typhoid. “ ’Tis little chance she
has,” sighed Daniel. “And wid the
weather so hot and the flies so bad!
Mick” —this to the coachdriver—“ye’d
better be bringing her out a coffin from
the Big Camp on your next trip. Then,
if the worst does happen, which God for-
bid, we can put her away decently with-
out any worry and waitin’.” Duly the
coffin arrived and was stowed away down
the cellar. But through the weeks that
dragged by Mag held on to life. Finally,
by what seemed a miracle, she recovered.
One day, entering the cellar to tap a
fresh cask during Daniel’s absence, she
found her coffin. “ ’Twould be buryin’
me before 1 was properly dead?” she
quizzed her abashed spouse. “Give me
the thing and I’ll chop it up for fire-
wood,” retorted Daniel. “Ye’ll not be
needin’ a coffin now for another fifty
years.” “But I will,” its owner coun-
tered. “With a board across the middle
it’ll be makin’ an illigant pair of wash-
troughs—a thing I’ve been wantin’ this
many a year.” And wash-trough it be-
came, the only set, Mag often boasted,
between the Old Camp and Norseman.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: In his description cl
the W.A. “flycatcher” (B. 11/10/’39)
“Gravelsnatcher” omits the flower’s most
pungent feature —its lure. Or, at least,
the ones I met had it. Entering a small
valley in the Darling Ranges, outside
Perth, I thought momentarily that I had
stumbled on an abandoned slaughter-
yard or something similar. The reek was
that of putrefying flesh. Then my nose
led me to clusters of blood-red flowers,
leafless and barely emerging from the
soil, shaped not unlike the blooms of the
common bulb. One close-up sniff, and
a man needed to grip his stomach tight
to avoid catastrophe. But how the
“blowies” loved it! They were buzzing
around like swarms of bees, while each
bloom was for their kind a sort of living
sarcophagus. Selecting a bloom just
about to open, I kept it in water for days,
Its stench filled the room, dying onlv
when the flower died. Withered, the
petals were odorless. And there was no-
thing inside them to explain how Nature’s
alchemy had conjured up an appalling
stench instead of the sweetness with which
she customarily endows most other
blooms. *
, ’ .
Mat s Mate : Big Mat had got into
a brawl with a bloke as big as himself.
They made it pretty willing, and both
stopped a fair share of punches. My
big cobber prevailed in the end, and in
the subsequent rejoicing in the bar the
usual beery sycophant sidled up and said,
“Cripes, boy, y’r pretty handy with y’
dooks. An’ y’r guard! ’Struth, he never
laid a fist on y’.” Mat gingerly fingered
a swollen nose and a setting eye. “Was
you watching closely?” he asked. “Yair,”
replied the pest. “Then perhaps you’ll
tell me who the blazes did hit me! ” Mat.
roared. “These ain’t the marks o’
kisses.”
* * * *
“Wingella”: When mining boomed at
its noisiest in the N.T., prospectors work-
ing at Union Reefs some 10 miles from
Pine Creek, crushed seven tons of stone
for 700 oz. The gold was placed in
the saddlebags of a young mare for trans-
port to Darwin, and the miners cele-
bra ted before it departed. In the midst
of their beano the mare got away. They
recovered her a fortnight, later with
every ounce of gold intact in the bags.
This story went the round of the mining
camps for many years as an illustration
of cood luck. Fifty years later a press-
man wrote it up, but, according to his
story, the mare never returned, and the
gold still is hidden in the N.T. jungle
awaiting a finder. And ever since then
newchums in the North have gone out
hunting for that non-existent fortune and
a skeleton that never can be found. So
do legends grow.
* * * *
“Jesmond”: In my Victorian district
the demand for green roofing paint has
gone up 1000 p.c. Red roofs are being
repainted green, and most of the un-
painted ones are getting a slapdash coat
of green, while one man who recently
built a house with variegated tiles is
seriously thinking of painting them.
Feeling against the few with unpainted
roofs is running high, and there is talk
of the Shire Council passing a by-law
making green roofs compulsory. It’s
A.R.P. jitters, of course, and in a town-
ship miles from any city and with less
than 200 population!
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Old Mac’s eldest son
brought his girl out to the place for a
family inspection. The family donned
its best clobber and turned out in force,
but was rather knocked back when a
veritable fashion-plate got out of young
Fred’s sulky and tripped daintily forward
on stilt heels. Old Mac, uncomfortable
in tight coat, new boots, collar and tie,
eyed her warily and withdrew slightly,
silently observing the maiden’s gushing
and the attempts of his missus to ascer-
tain her ability to cook, milk, etc. Later,
having returned his love to the town, Fred
came home and sought the old man’s
opinion ,of his choice. “Hasn’t she a
bonzer face, Dad?” he enthused. “There’s
good stuff in her, all right.” “Well, I
dunno,” opined old Mac thoughtfully ;
“it’s pretty poor land that needs so much
topdressin’! ”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: After all, we’d better
forgive Lock for drawing such a hefty
bone (B. 18/10/’39), as the genuine
article, drawn to scale, would hardly be
visible in a sketch of that size. The
Luritja death-
bone which sits
down longa my
bookcase (no ill
effects to date) is
a splinter of kan-
garoo bone ex-
actly a foot long
and three-eighths
across at its
widest part. The
butt carries a ball
of pitch into
which is fastened
the end of a yard
of human - hair
string; while
from half-way it
is gouged to a
tip, even more
slender and beau-
tifully tapered
than Prender-
gast’s nose. But
the actual point-
ing is only a pre-
liminary to stick-
ing the bone
point down in the ground in a place
where the victim is sure to see and
comprehend it; so really Lock’s abo.
should also be equipped with a shovel
and bar, otherwise he’ll have the devil
of a job planting that weapon in the
approved manner.
* * * *
“Mundowie”: During the Great War,
when substitutes were hastily sought, the
tendons of both kangaroos and wallabies
were found to be greatly useful in
surgery, and there was a big demand for
them. Drawn from the hind legs, neck
and tail of the marsupial, it required
the product of 15 animals to make a
pound weight. Long ago this primitive
industry was of some importance to the
pioneer settlers, who used the material
for mending harness, among other pur-
poses. The tendons formed the chief
thread of the abos. in making their ’pos-
sum rugs and skin waterbags. The
longest were also employed by them for
binding purposes, as in securing handles,
with the addition of gum, to the heads
of their stone tomahawks, for tying the
hook on the wommera, and fastening
stone or glass heads to their fighting
spears.
* * * *
“Togo”: He was a town bumpkin in
his ways, though he had lived several
years in the bush. We kidded him on a
rabbiting expedition and put him to mind
one outlet from a burrow while we
excavated at the other. He poked a
stick in and then went into his usual
trance. But the rabbit knew its man.
It took a run up the stick, up the holder’s
arm and made a flying leap for liberty
from the sentry’s shoulder. In spite of
a light bag and an easy chase we hadn’t
the heart to pursue that rabbit further.
“SAY WHAT Y’ LIKE!”
“Say what y’ Ike. ue hatter said,
“Of Nero burnin’ Rome,
The Klondyke rush in ’ninety-six,
An’ others nearer home;
Most pleasin’ fire I ever saw,
Accomp’nied by a spree,
Was when the sawdust heap caught fire
In the pub at Old Junee.
“Y’ know how sawdust, burnin’ slow,
Sends smoke clouds rollin’ high;
We saw the sign f’r miles around—
’Twas summertime, an’ dry.
We raced on horseback, foot an’ bike,
Or piled in motors —free —
That day the sawdust heap caught fire
In the pub at Old Junee.
“From ev’ry farm an’ roadside camp
The willin’ helpers came;
We charged the pub in mass array
T’ fight the rav’nin’ flame!
We swept aside the publican,
Nor hearkened to his plea,
The day the sawdust heap caught fire
In the pub at Old Junee.
“ ‘Who’ll save me stock?’ old Bung,
despaired
As barrels rolled abroad.
The mob got busy in the smoke
An’ roared with one accord:
‘Don’t fret y’rself, y’r stock’s all right;
We’ll save the lot, you see!’
An’ still the heap was burnin’ slow
In the pub at Old Junee.
“Say what y’ like,” the hatter said,
“The boys were game that day,
For as the salvage work went on
We washed our fears away.
An’ each new lot of rescued stock
Was rolled well clear with glee;
While still the heap was burnin’ slow
In the pub at Old Junee.
“An’ when at last the sun went down,
The smoke wreaths died away,
The gallant fighters lay around
The scene of their affray.
Fair dink., the line of empty kegs
Stood one t’ ev’ry tree,
The day the sawdust heap caught fire
In the pub at Old Junee!”
n.s.w.
OLD-TIMER.


“All clear!”
“Wang”: “Some bush blokes is terrible
proud of their whiskers,” remarked Dan.
“The bushier they grow the prouder they
are of ’em. So wus I one time ; but —
well, I’ll tell yer. I useter have a bonzer
beard ; near down to me waist it wus.
Well, one day I’m out in the bush on
me own splittin’ posts. I’d got a straight-
grained log, an’ had opened her about
three inches an’ wus bendin’ over the
crack ready t’ drive in another wedge
when somehow or other the wedge
already in slips out an’ the edges of the
crack clamp together with six inches of
me whiskers caught in it. I’m in a lovely
mess, an’ no error. I had nothin’ t’ saw
me ziff orf with, an’ short of tearin’ ’em
out be the roots I wus held a prisoner
there. Me only hope wus for someone
t’ come along when they found I hadn’t
turned up at night-time. I decides t’
make the best of it, an’ lay there quiet.
After a while I hears a rustle, an’ there’s
a six-foot snake slitherin’ towards me.
He comes right up t’ the log, an’ is about
t' lift hisself up into me face when I
give the log a roll forward an’ pins him
be the head. The strain on me whiskers
is awful; but I keep him there. He flails
hisself about like mad, an’ in one of his
swoops gets his tail round the handle of
me axe that had been lyin’ just out o’
me reach an’ lifts it in the air. The
handle lands right into me hand, an’—
well, them whiskers is sawed through in
less time than it takes t’ tell. Since then
two days’ growth is me limit.”
* * * *
“Breaker”: Though I’ve seen it used
but rarely, there’s one cure for “jibs”
(B. 25/10/’39) that I’ve never known
to fail. A silly habit common to all
neddies of my acquaintance is to clap
their tails down hard on any article
touched against their rump. A rough
stick or small prickly twig placed under
the base of Dobbin’s tail is generally
enough to bring it down hard and set
him going like the wind. But I wouldn’t
recommend the tactics of one owner of
a particularly obstinate jib. Evidently
thinking that a twig or stick wasn’t
enough for the job, he visited the cook-
house and lifted a steaming hot potato.
Dobbin went all right—he chucked his
boss and everything else out of the cart
and disappeared until nightfall, when he
was led back to a camp by an exceedingly
footsore owner.
* * * *
“Lespy”: “I bin workin’ on a job in
the city,” said old Ben the handyman,
“and Ned the Nark, the foreman car-
penter, is a fair cow. ’E’s mad on the
army, and ’e treats us like a lot o’ raw
recruits. Any’ow, when they calls for
men for the new A.I.F. we reckon ’e’ll
be one of the first ter enlist. We’re
looking forward to it at any rate, but
one dinnertime Mick, the ’od-carrier, is
reading out the list of trades wot’s not
allowed ter enlist. ‘Blime,’ ’e sez, ‘they
must be keepin’ Ned just ter breed
from.’ ”
«: * * *
“Samuel Suburb”: If it’s timberivorous
tykes we’re talking about (B. 25/10/’39),
I’ll stake my ordinary domestic Heinz
terrier against all comers. Left him locked
up in the house one afternoon to his
evident disgust because, returning a
couple of hours later, I found that, apart
from demolishing a couple of towels, a
floor rug, several square feet of linoleum
and an odd slipper or two, he had prac-
tically chewed a panel out of the back
door and would have had it right out if
he’d had the intelligence to persevere with
the job instead of knocking off to do
likewise to the front door. Now, even
a diet of the hardest bones the butcher
can supply won’t correct his appetite
for chair and table legs.
* * * *
“Kooragai”: At a shearing shed on
the Castlereagh, where several squabbles
had occurred over wet sheep, the man-
ager used to put a mob in the shed over-
night so that they would not be even
dew-wet for the morning run. One night
there was a sharp shower, and the con-
clave of the hut prejudged
the outside lot wet. An-
ticipating trouble, the boss
and the jackeroo went
down early, let the dry
sheep out of the pens and
refilled them with a draft
from the yard. The men
shore the “wet” lot with-
out a murmur. Then the
dry mob was put back
in the catch-pens. A
couple apiece were shorn,
then the team left off, de-
claring the sheep fo be
wet. “I thought so,” was
all the boss was heard to
say as he left to return
the sheep to the paddock.
Two days afterwards the
shed “rep.” inquired about
making another start.
“Sheep too wet yet,” said
the owner. “Heavy dew
last night.” Two more
days passed, and he was
approached again. “Not
safe yet,” was the reply.
“Dark cloud in the sky
last night.” Those shearers, who were
paid by the hundred sheep, and had
wanted half a day’s spell, had a week’s
idleness before the woollies were penned
again.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: “Consider the lilies how
they grow.” The Kimberley abo. does.
To him the water-lily is the never-failing
staple, good season or bad. At the end
of the wet season its flowers —red, blue,
white —cover every swamp, lagoon and
billabong with a mantle of beauty, red
being the least common. The large, flat
green leaves float, supporting the seed-
pod, which when the flower dies forms
and ripens beneath the
surface. This pod be-
comes packed with large
brown-and-white seeds,
very palatable even when
still uncooked. Roasted
they form a nutritious
food which the industrious
gins mostly grind into
flour. For an oven a
hearth of flat stones is
laid and heated to a
nicety. The lily stalk,
eaten raw, is both vege-
table and salad. Again,
as it’s porous, the thirsty
nig. breaks it off long, and
so can suck a drink from
the cool depth of the
lagoon instead of having
to lap up the sickly-warm
surface water. When the
swamps dry up lily tubers
are dug. Roasted and
ground, as was done with
the seeds, these tubers
also make flour, bitter but
very nutritious. Even long
before the swamps com-
pletely dry up the gins are
busy at this tuber-digging,
groping with hands and
digging sticks sometimes thigh-deep in
the muddy water.
❖ * * *
“Laetitia”: Those anthropologists who
claim that the Torres Strait islanders
have no kindred biological origin with
the mainlanders of Cape York Penin-
sula, only a dozen miles distant, have a
strong argument in the respective Binghi
armories. The spear of the mainlander
is unknown to the islander either as a
hunting or martial weapon, although the
mainlander employs it extensively in fish-
ing. The boomerang also is unknown to
the islanders of present or past generations.
The islander’s circular-headed or disk
stone club mounted on a stock of tulu
wood was never adopted by the main-
lander, although his cannibalistic neigh-
bor often used it against him. Nor was
the mainlander familiar with the bows
and arrows which the islander used for
fighting, hunting and even fishing.
* * * *
“Bushy Park”: Nowadays, most bush
folk appear to be too busy sampling
what the radio has to offer in the way of
crooners and imported serials to spare a
night for the old-fashioned pastime of
eel-fishing—a sport which, in its way,
provided as much excitement as any
Zane Gray deep-sea expedition. It
needed an expert to bait a hook and
cast a line in the darkness without strik-
ing some overhanging tree branch and
“Shall us Heil un, Tummas?”
diverting the hook into some part
(generally the ear) of the fisherman s
anatomy, while an occasional splash
and outburst of smothered swearing as
an overanxious angler slid off a slippery
tussock into the dark waters of the
lagoon was regarded as part of the pro-
ceedings. Then there was the excitement
when someone hooked a big ’un and
everybody rushed with waddies to try
to k.o. the squirmer before he twisted
himself off the hook; when the hurri-
cane lamp was kicked over, and in the
subsequent blackout there was much
indiscriminate smacking and bashing
and invariably someone was accidentally
walloped instead of the eel, which, in
the general excitement, managed to
slither back into the water. In addition,
there would be some member of the
party whose idea of fishing would be to
give a wild jerk at his rod as soon as
he felt a bite and probably send his
catch whizzing through the air to wind
its slimy length round the nearest avail-
able neck and start another scene of en-
joyable confusion. Eeling was certainly
no game for sissies.
*S*
“Copley”: Why is it that it is almost
disastrous to some plants to be bitten by
cattle? Have repeatedly seen flourishing
young fig-trees put back for years
through having only once had their green
tips chewed off by a cow. Have noticed
the same, too, with such a hardy battler
as the wild briar rose. Introduced into
central Victoria nearly a century ago by
a sentimental Englishman, the briar
threatened to become a pest. Given a
protected spot it soon became almost as
aggressive as the blackberry. But where
it was exposed to cattle it never did much
good, seldom rising a foot from the soil.
Have arrived at the conclusion that in
cattle saliva there must be something
toxic to such species of plants.
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: “I’m out on the
ridges back o’ Wantadeerinka trappin’
goanners fer their skins an’ ile,” said
Dan the dog stiffener, “an’ things is jake
’cept fer the ’eat an’ the water, w’ich
is mostly mud an’ the spawn o’ mus-
keeters an’ frawgs an’ suchlike. One
day I gets a queer viberation in me
pantry, an’ sornethink wot sounds like
‘cor-r-r-ronk, cor-ror-ronk’ comes frum
me gizzard an’ keeps on fer a coupla
’ours. I’m so scared that nex’ day I
beats it fer town an’ tells the quack that
I got some kinda animal livin’ in me
innards. ’E runs the rule over me an’
sez: ‘ ’Magination, indooced be exces-
sive consumption o’ alcolic lickers.’ I
’adn’t tasted ’ard stuff fer a dawg’s age,
an’ I told ’im so. ’E gives me a queer
kinda look an’ sez, ‘Sez you!’ So I
lights out back ter me goanners. A
couple o’ days later I’m in me bunk
feelin’ dead crook, with me inkybus
cor-r-ronkin’ like ’ell; so I takes ’arf a
spoonful o’ kyann pepper, with the idear
o’ pluggin’ ’is ’ooter. Immejitly there’s
a ’ell of a corruption, an’ up comes a
pale yaller frawg as big as a noo-’atched
chick. ’E seems kinda dazed fer a bit,
then ’e ’ops onter me w’iskers an’ makes
fer ’ome agen. I ’eaves ’im outa the tent,
an’ a larfin’ Jack wot’s roostin’ on the
ridge-pole grabs ’im an’ downs ’im like
you would a beer. W’en I tells the doc.
about it later ’e goes dead crook, an’
sez it’s a dam’ lie, it bein’ quite un-
possible fer a frawg ter be ingenderated
in the body of a yuman bein’; but no
dam’ quack can’t tell me as that frawg
wasn’t ’atched outa some o’ the spawn
wot I’d bin drinkin’ fer weeks.”
AN OUTING.
What a night it is we ve chosen
For our outing, you and I?
Surely privileged are we
Such rare loveliness to see,
As our oars we dip and feather,
Rowing on and on together,
With a rounded moon on high.
As by little cape and island,
Far away from town and home,
On the Harbor’s breast we float,
Like a live thing seems our boat,
With her bow bright ripples clearing,
And afar behind her leaving
Pearls agleam on silver foam.
Since, with cloudless skies above us,
Wind and weather we may trust,
Let us on and onward row,
Thinking, thinking as we go —
Never viewing aught so splendid,
By a hapless fate attended,
Many die and turn to dust.
Who knows what amazing vision
One may glimpse on such a night?
Fit this scene is for a god
Or a goddess, wreathed and shod—
Shod with silver, wreathed with roses —
Mingling, while mankind reposes,
Light divine with earthly light.
What a night it is we’ve chosen
For our outing—what a scene!
Surely favored folk we are
Here, from toil and town afar,
To be rowing on the Harbor —
Mile and mile by lawn and arbor,
Gardened slope and isle of green.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


ESTABLISHED 1834.
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
CAPITAL PAID UP . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
RESERVE FUND £4,300,000 0 0
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL . . . . £4,739,012 10 0
Head Office: 343 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS:
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd., Barclay’s
Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Agents throughout the world.
Branches and Receiving Offices throughout New South
Wales, Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
ADAMS 1 (TATTERS ALL'S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 4M GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
Safe and Profitable —
A CATHOLIC POLICY
• Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With a Catholic whole-life or endowment contract you can t go wrong.
Your premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out a Catholic policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
office directs attention to “The Bulletins criticism (26/1/ 38). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian
CATHOLIC
Assurance
CO., LTD.,
Head Office: Comer King and York Streets, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director.
P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria- A.C.A Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Paringa Building, 13 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. Georges Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Amalgamated Wireless
Writ- To Re- De-
June. Profit. Dividends. ten Off. serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1929. .108,326 8 p.c. = 59,54328,73120,052 4,268
Written off establishment exes., £ll .. 4,257
To Re- Nominal
Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1930.. 84,283 8 p.c. = 59,543 24,740 20,483
1931.. 59,196 6 „ „ 44,657 14,539 35,022
1932.. 77,159 71 „ „ 55,821 21,338 56.300
1933.. 82,172 8 „ „ 59,543 22,629 78,989
1934.. 137,934 10 „ „ 74,428 63,506 142,495
Staff fund. £5OOO 137,495
1935.. 119,824 10 p.c. = 74,428 ) o Qfi SOl
Staff fund, £15,000 .. j J0,3J6 167,891
1936.. 109,701 11 p.c. = 81,870 27,831 195,721
1937.. 125,794 12 „ „ 89,313 36,481 232,202
1938.. 130,198 12 „ ~ 89,525 40,673 272,875
1939.. 132,578 10 „ „ 89,035 43,543 316,418
From the beginning of the term the
new reduced rates for inter-Empire
communication became fully effective.
In December the overseas telephone
service was extended by a new Beam
radio connection between Sydney and
San Francisco, the whole telephone
network of the U.S.A. and Canada now
being linked to Commonwealth telephone
subscribers. The same sort of service
has been in operation between this coun-
try and Great Britain for some years,
The co. also transmits photograms, and
its newest activity is in connection with
direction-finding equipment for air ser-
vices.
The Beam telegraph service was opened
in 1927, and it paid divs. almost immedi-
ately. The co. also gathers an income from
patent rights. Manufacturing activities
of the parent co., in which the Comrrion-
wealth Government holds a controlling
interest, and its subsidiaries include
the turning-out of wireless sets, radio
valves and all other equipment for
wireless transmission and reception.
Hand-set telephones for the P.M.G. and
automatic traffic-control gear are also
manufactured. A.W.A. soundproof and
acoustical equipment are of interest to
builders.
Marine wireless equipment has been
made by the co. for a number of years,
and 12 vessels were equipped in over-
seas ports (including the U.K.) last year
with A.W.A. sets. The co.’s coastal radio
service comprises 19 stations round Aus-
tralia, which communicate with ships on
all seas.
Station 2CH also belongs to the co.,
among other wireless outfits. The co.
specialises in equipment and technical
operation of other stations, and in the
production and distribution of recorded
programmes.
During the term to June 30 last
revenue was not so buoyant as in the
two or three years before. For this
knight Ernest Fisk, whose name is almost
synonymous with A.W.A., blames “the
incipient business decline which was
noticeable prior to the outbreak of war.”
But trade in most sections held reason-
ably well, all things considered, and on
the enlarged capital (up £118,700 during
the year) gross revenue (£732,116) was
£ll9B better. Expenses, which included
a provision of £73,860 for depreciation
(down £23,173), were £llB2 lighter, and
the net result (£132,578) was £2380 better
at 14.9 p.c. on average capital at work,
compared with 17.4, 16.9, 14.7, 16.1, 18.5
and 11 p.c. back to 1933. A 10 p.c. div.
on the increased capital called for only
slightly less than 12 p.c. did in the two
preceding terms; after shareholders had
accepted this cut of 2 p.c. in their in-
come, £43,543 of profit remained for
reserves. These now stand at £316,418,
subject to patents, £85,811, and in addi-
tion there is £511,927 of specific pro-
vision against the book value of fixed
assets, Beam service, investments, etc.
Chief changes in the financial position
of A.W.A. last year were due to the erec-
tion of an imposing new head office in
Sydney. Because of the outlay involved
a call of 3s. a share was made on the
804,118 contribs., bringing them up to
18s. paid:
1033 IQ3fi IQ3R IQ3Q
Paid capital. . £744,283 £744,283 £786306 £905,106
Sundry creditors 259,143 240,287 440,850 366,398
Freeholds . . 297,677 377.243 436,106 538,195
Plant, etc. f , fi q 049 f 509.485 522,190
Stocks 1 Z9o,2jJ 503,949 j 330 5e7 32 8,778
Beam service. . 159,647 171.495 178,761 178,615
Book debts . . 139,636 259,058 402,139 342,901
Cash, etc. . . 282,080 137,362 83,654 148,013
The £118,700 that came in enabled an
addition of £102,089 to be made to the
book value (cost) of freeholds and
£12,705 to wireless stations. Also, the
amount owing to outsiders was reduced
by £74,452. A drop of £59,238 in debtors
helped the co. in financing these move-
ments and in accumulating an extra
£64,959 in cash, investments, etc.
(£148,613, including £62,894 in subsidiary
and other cos.).
The more or less liquid surplus
(£391,000, including stocks and Consols,
but not shares in other cos.) improved
£72,134 during the term, indicating that
the additional capital took full care of
outlay on fixed assets. The co. would
now like to establish its own communi-
cation channels with India, the F.M.S.
and near-by countries, and the U.S.A.,
but cable services are already in exist-
ence. Chairman Fisk therefore urges
that the Beam and cables be merged at
the Australian end on a basis that would
preserve the cables but also allow the
Beam to be fully developed.
The co.’s current term has opened with
conditions very mixed. There may be a
stimulus to news transmission following
the war, and official communications may
increase, but censorship and a falling-
off in overseas commerce may adversely
affect the Beam service. It is likely that
there will be an increased demand for
world-range wireless receivers for a period,
but a buttoning-up on “luxury” spending
has been noticeable for some time.
The market for A.W.A. shares has
frozen up for some weeks. In 1938 the
fully-paids changed hands at a highest
price of 665. and a lowest of 635. Last
sale was at 555., the scrip yielding £3 13s.
per cent, on the reduced div. basis. The
contribs. last sold at 525.
West Australian Newspapers, Ltd.
Nominal
Net f— —Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 97,946 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 64,550 ( „„ a7t ...
Written off prelim, exes., £10.525 \ 00,.b0
1930.. 86,739 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 64,550 \ ...
Written off prelim, exes., £10,525 } 11 >064 77,449
Loss sale Government bonds, £5125 .. 72,324
Special depreciation, £17,000 .. .. 55,324
1931.. 57,196 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 38,160 19,036 74,360
Specific reserves written back, £13',636.. 87,996
1932.. 61,369 8 p.c. 8 p.c. 38,160 23,209 111,205
1933.. 47,515 8 „ 8 „ 38,160 9,355 120,560
1934.. 52,979 8 „ 8 „ 38,160 14,819 135,379
1935.. 68,616 8 „ 104 „ 47,585 21,031 156,410
1936.. 69,884 8 „ 10J „ 47,585 \ lg m fi „ o
Prelim, exes, written off, £4019 ] 1<4,0J0
1937.. 74,177 8 p.c. 10J p.c. 57,387 16,790 191,480
1938.. 74,439 8 ~ 104 „ 63,419 11,020 202,500
1939.. 71,565 8 „ 9-| „ 56,821 14,744 217,244
The 2j p.c. bonus that has accom-
panied the 8 p.c. div. for four years was
halved last term, and “continuance of
even this bonus cannot be relied on in
view of increased taxation for defence
and the depressed condition of the staple
industries of the State,” the board
cautions. However, there was a com-
fortable margin between last term’s
earnings and distributions, gold output
continues to forge upward under the
stimulus of a higher price, purchase of
our wool, metals, meat, etc., by Britain
has since changed the outlook for
primary producers, and Nature has been
kind in the southern portion of the State.
Profits will be largely governed by the
course of costs, including newsprint, of
which the co. consumes 5000 tons
annually, and taxation. Newspaper pro-
prietors did well enough in 1914-1918 ;
rivalry from broadcasters has to be
taken into account in the present
struggle.
The present co., which has a monopoly
of Perth’s daily news field, took over
from the trustee of knight Winthrop
Hackett’s estate in 1926. From the be-
ginning the ords. have averaged 10.5 p.c.
—highest 15 p.c., lowest 8 p.c. At the
same time £46,119 of intangibles has
been cleared from the accounts and un-
distributed earnings £81,687 short of the
£298,931 paid for goodwill accumulated.
Chief moneyspinner is the “West Aus-
tralian,” a morning daily born in the
thirties of last century; the evening
broadsheet is the “News,” acquired along
with the issued capital of Perth News-
papers in 1935, and now on a profitable
basis after long being a straggler. Two
weeklies, the “Broadcaster” and “Western
Mail,” are also published, a half-interest
in W.A. Broadcasters, controlling three
B-class stations, has helped take some of
the sting out of radio competition, and,
with other metropolitan dailies, the co.
is a party to the Australian newsprint
venture at New Norfolk (Tas.).
Last term “satisfactory progress,”
with all-round increases in circulations,
was achieved by all publications, but
there was no benefit to profits—down
£2874 at £71,565, allowing for a minor
reserve adjustment. Allowing for the
prefs.’ £BOOO, that showed a shade over
12 p.c. on ord. capital, as against 12.5,
14.6, 16.4 and 16.1 p.c. back to 1935
and 23.9 p.c. in 1929.
Finances are in good shape:
Paid capital— 1935. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Prof. .. £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Ord. .. 377,000 377,000 527,800 527,800
Debentures, etc. 152,251 152,251
Overdraft . . 71,002
Other liabilities 5,845 7,385 32,300 28,333
Freeholds . . 299,033 299,033 296,087 309,538
Plant, etc... 97,861 107,385 80,084 70,917
Stock . . 25,549 27,159 41,991 58,543
Shares .. 5,253 96,754 99,804 101,192
Sundry debtors 40,001 42,004 46,207 48,683
Consols, cash, etc. 74,216 60,125 60,807 40,580
The growth of £16,552 in stocks was in
anticipation of newsprint price-rises.
Freeholds (up £13,451) comprise News-
paper House, St. George’s-terrace, the
old headquarters building, now let as
offices, and a bulk store in Fremantle
acquired last term to provide for more
economical handling of paper. Leaving
shareholdings (mainly “News” scrip)
out of the reckoning, the surplus of
more or less liquids over the moderate
debt was £2774 more at £119,479.
Subject to goodwill, etc., in the
accounts of subsidiaries, backing for the
£1 ords. is 16s. lid. in net tangibles.
At 36s. —40s. 12 months ago and 455.
a year before that—they return 5.1 p.c.
on the basis of last term’s distribution,
or 4.4 p.c. should the bonus be dropped.
Covered almost 5F times as to capital
and nine times as to div., the prefs. yield
5.5 p.c. at a buyer’s offer of 295. 3d.
Austin Distributors, Ltd. (Melb.)
To Re— Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 15,151 27.5 p.c. = 13,750 1,401 2,816
1930.. 7,917 15 „ „ 7,500 417 3,223
1931.. 125 Nil 125 3,358
1932.. 1,783 3 p.c. = 1.500 283 3,641
1933.. 3,292 5 „ „ 2,500 792 4,433
1934.. 7,536 10 „ „ 5,000 2,536 6,969
1935.. 7,828 10 „ „ 5,000 2,828 9,797
1936.. 10,719 10 „ ~ 5,625 5,094 14,891
1937.. 17,413 15 „ ~ 9,375 8,038 22,929
1938.. 24,119 15 „ „ 11,250 12,869 35,79 S
Pref.,
6 p.c. Old.
1939.. 28,249 1875 15 ip.e. =11,250 15,124 50,922
The Austin agency in Victoria has
been very successfully handled by this
co. to date, but the whole future of Eng-
lish car distributors has begun to look
hazy since war broke out. Appar-
ently exports can now be made without
a license, though for some weeks all
shipments were rigidly controlled; a
point, however, that is worrying the trade
now is whether the “shadow” scheme of
aircraft production will interfere with
actual output of English cars. Opinion
has it both ways, but much obviously
depends just on how the war goes, and
on that point the average person knows
almost nothing.
In the term to June 30 last Austin
Distributors delivered 1359 new cars, an
increase of 178, though the general trend
among car cos. was to find stocks harder
to shift than in 1937-38. This co.’s net
profit lifted by £4130, to £28,249, repre-
senting 35.2 p.c. on ord. capital, after
allowing for the div. on the new prefs.,
compared with 32.2 p.c. in the preceding
year. A 15 p.c. ord. div. was paid for
the third term in succession, and more
than was distributed was carried to re-
serves, which now stand at £50,922.
Paid capital has grown from £50,000
(in ords.) in 1935 to £112,500 (£37,500 in
6 p.c. prefs.) last balance day. Fixed
assets figure at only £21,811 in the
accounts, and apparently represent a con-
servative valuation ; amounts owing on
term sales are the principal item in
balance-sheet figures:
1935. 1936. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital .. £50,000 £62,500 £75,000 £112,500
Liabilities . . 40,623 36,737 98,835 48,043
Freeholds, etc. .. 7,086 4,898 14,529 17,603
Plant, etc. . . 1.051 1,468 4.668 4,208
Stocks .. .. 34.362 31.473 66,818 50,611
Book debts . . 61,830 79,891 131,103 150,868
Investments and 1
cash .. .. 2,961 2,976 3,621 3,478
These debtors increased £19,765 last term
(to £150,868), while stock values dropped
£16,207. The new capital that came in,
plus undistributed earnings, enabled a
reduction of £50,792 to be made in the
outside debt, which now stands at
£48,043. There is £2922 invested in
Ausdis Used Cars, a pup whose assets
are mostly in cash.
At 335; 6d. the ord. scrip yields 9 p.c.
on a 15 p.c. div. basis, or 6 p.c. should
the rate, through importing difficulties or
business slackness, fall to 10 p.c. The
co. is in a strong financial position, and
net tangibles amount to 335. 7d. per ord.
share.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929. .528,646 421 jp.c.= 297,500 231,146 2,138,992
1930. .275,663 50 „ ~350,000 2,064,655
1931. .103,571 8| „ „ 61,250 42,321 2,106,976.
1932. .205,752 25 „ „ 175,000 30,752 2,137,728
1933. 15 „ ~105.000 91,565 2,229,293
1934. .303,355 271 „ ~192,500 110,855 2,340,148
1935. .420,683 40 „ ~280,000 140,683 2,480,831
1936. 70 ~ „ 490,000 176,940 2,658.771
1937 . .940,628 105 ~ „ 735,000 205,628 2,863,399
1938. .505,153 90 ~ ~ 630,000 2,738,552
1939. 40 „ ~280,000 76,841 2,815,393
The new concentrating plant, gravity-
enm-flotation, started up on April 11 —
11 working weeks before the accounts


SECURITY FOR
YOUR SAVINGS. . .
Careful investors will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
shares of 20 Companies.
Custodian Trustees for investors:
Union Insurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
Write for a Free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: 8 5294
The Mutual Life and Citizens'
Assurance Company, Limited
Castlereagh Street and Martin Place,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £28,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£4,200,000.
Arthur Eeay, C.8.E.,
Managing Director.
/ o • •
4 vj
% .fl
twaKpv:' V «S
vyl
t.- •"
V^
/
Streamlined trains devouring distance at
100 miles an hour ... lifts carrying whole
cities of people up the pinnacled heights
of amazing skyscrapers ... brokers wildly
bidding on the Stock Exchange floor . . .
factories pouring out cars by the thou-
sands daily . . . packing plants and steel
foundries pulsing with incredible ma-
chinery ... radio broadcasts from a tower
in the clouds ... dancing on a roof-garden
above the lights of Broadway . . . sports
in endless profusion . . . the pulse of in-
dustry and the lighter rhythm of pleasure
... all in the thrilling tempo of America!
You’ll find this spirit of America riding
with you on her trains that course to every
part of the continent. You’ll see it in the
almost deceptive speed at which you ride
... in the gay atmosphere of club and
observation cars ... in the wide variety
of services that cater to your pleasure.
Nothing in travel quite so exhilarating as
these smooth-running flyers, nothing so
completely adapted to your comfort. Air
conditioning makes the weather serve
your wishes . . . radio, library, games —-
even a cocktail bar—provide diversion.
Generous stopover privileges and a choice
of routes enable you to see as much of
America as you wish, in as short a time as
your schedule requires. And nowhere is
travel quite so considerate of your budget.
America . . . then the Atlantic . . . and
England, by the world’s most exciting
travel way! But first,your voyage through
the South Seas aboard a Matson luxury
liner, Mariposa or Monterey . . . with
stops at New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa and
Hawaii, arriving in California in 18
swiftly passing, pleasure filled days!
Full details of this glamour-route to England are provided in our illustrated booklet, “England
Across America.” Things to do . . . things to see . . . and what it costs. Free on request.
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION RUREAIJ
Matson Line
\aat
The Oceanic Steamship Company
(Incorporated in U.S. A. • Limited Liability)
PRUDENTIAL BUILDING
4th Floor, 39 Martin Place, Sydney
closed. The old mill operated for 38
weeks, and, though the new plant didnt
get into its stride till after the close ot
accounts, it was a year of record produc-
tion for the North mine. With Zinc
Corp.’s new all-flotation plant swallowing
ore at a rate only slightly lower than
North’s, the Barrier lode is being bur-
rowed into in unprecedented style.
North last year milled an extra 54,526
tons of ore. Because of some low-grade
stuff from the British section it assayed
lower: lead 14.1 p.c. (against 14.5 p.c.),
silver 8.30 z. (8.70 z.) and zinc 10.9 p.c.
(10.85 p.c.). Lead is the most profitable
metal. Concentration produced the fol-
lowing results:
Ore ( Concentrates — \
Treated, , Lead r Zinc ,
Tons. Tons. Assay. Tons. Assay.
1931.. 293,069 59,990 72.5 p.c. 13,730 51.6 p.c.
1933.. 313,782 60,130 74.6 „ 57,746 52.8 „
1935.. 396,175 79,060 73.5 „ 74,370 53.3 „
1936.. 402,097 79,330 73.6 „ 77,070 53.0 „
1937.. 434,865 80,310 73.9 „ 74,740 52.3 „
1938.. 468,150 86,640 74.0 „ 81,950 52.4 „
1939.. 522,676 94,814 73.7 91,462 51.8 „
Metal recoveries were 94.6 p.c. lead
(against 94.4 p.c.), 87.4 p.c. silver (87.1
p.c.) and 83.2 p.c. zinc (84.6 p.c.). The
drop in zinc recovery was due to the
adoption of an alkaline circuit in the
new zinc flotation section, as against an
acid circuit in the old, and the new tech-
nique had not been perfected at the end
of the year.
Still dealing with factors over which
the management has some control or
foreknowledge, we come to costs. On
this score the plant has been entirely
successful:
1930. 1938. 1939.
Grades raised, tons. . 450,157 471,170 524,476
Mining' . . . . 245. 8.2 d. 235. 8.9 d. 245. 2.5 d.
Development . . 2s. 2.7 d. 3s. 11.4 d. 4s. 2.7 d.
Milling .. .. 10s. 9.3 d. 7s. 2.8 d. 6s. 10.7 d.
375. 8.2 d. 345. 11. Id. 355. 3.Sd.
The cut in milling exes, was 4.1 d. per
ton of ore. But mining and development
costs were, taken together, up 8.9 d. The
reduction in the lead bonus payable dur-
ing the year was more than offset by the
increase in cost and consumption of
mining timber, cost of extra development
and diamond-drilling, higher wages based
on rising cost of living and increased
power costs as a result of a strike.
The management has no control over
world prices, and during the year it had
to sell its lead and spelter, through the
Associated Spelters and Electrolytic Zinc,
at world parity. The prices it received
are here compared with other years:
Silver
Average— Lead. (Fine). Zinc.
5 years June, 1929.. £2O/8/- 2/6.9 £3O/7/1
12 months June, 1932.. £l2/16/7 1/6.4 £l2/18/9
12 months June, 1935.. £ll/6/- 2,3.8 £l2/16/7
12 months June, 1936.. £l6/4/5 2/2.3 £l5/3/11
12 months June, 1937.. £23/2/8 1/9.9 £2O/2/1
12 months June, 1938.. £l7/10/- 1/9.1 £l6/15/1
12 months, June, 1939.. £l4/9/5 1/9.4 £l4/0/2
Those are average London prices ex-
pressed in sterling. The drop was
sharpest in lead (£3 os. 7d.), spelter fall-
ing £2 14s. lid., while silver was a little
firmer.
North’s income from sales of products
and its unsold production of lead and
silver in concentrate (taken in at £l2 10s.
a ton and Is. Bd. an ounce, Australian
currency, respectively) are represented by
“mine production, £1,276,919,” in this
table of revenue and expenditure:
Revenue:— ' 1933. 1938. 1939.
Mine production. . £619,822 £1,282,200 £1,276,919
Investments .. 111,584 173,958 133,361
£731,406 £1,456,158 £1,410,280
Expenditure:—
Mine . . • - £493,157 £855,832 £966,484
P. and 1. items. . 71,684 125,173 113,609
Loss investments. . 3,346
£564,841 £981,005 £1,083,439
Net profit .. .. 166,565 475,153 326,841
The lli p.c. increase in mine output
failed by £5281 to offset the effect of lower
metal prices. The drop of £40,597 in in-
vestment income appears to be more the
result of uneven distributions from the
cos. in which North is interested —B.H.P.
Smelters, Electro. Zinc, Electro. Refining,
Western N.S.W. Power, etc. —than of
notable fluctuations in their earnings.
Mine expenditure, administration exes,
and staff fund appropriation were to-
gether £104,706 higher at £99/,911 ;
£41,000, against £57,800, was set aside
for taxes and royalty, while £11,182 was
contributed towards the new Broken Hill
Hospital. There was a small loss on the
sale of some investments during the year.
Each year an allowance of £30,000 is
made for depreciation, treated as profit
in the introductory table.
The £330,187 of net profit (down
£144,966) actually claimed by the accounts
was equal to 47.1 p.c. on capital
(£700,000) compared with 67.8, 130, 90.9,
54.3, 39 and 23.7 p.c. back to 1933. Divs.
paid during the year totalled 40 p.c., as
against 90 p.c. and 105 p.c. in the two
preceding years.
Since the close of accounts B.H. Asso-
ciated Smelters has contracted to sell
13,875 tons of lead per calendar month
to the British Government at £lB 16s. 7d.
Aust. a ton, f.o.b. Port Pirie. That works
out at 166,500 tons a year. The smelters
turned out 182,000 tons in 1938. Britain
has also contracted to take 3000 tons of
spelter per month from Electro. Zinc at
£lB 15s. Aust., f.o.b. Risdon. About
70,000 tons, of spelter was produced by
E.Z. last term. Prices are subject to half-
yearly adjustment with regard to produc-
tion costs, and Britain may terminate on
taking a year’s supply. For any surplus
over and above British Government re-
quirements the London maximum prices
are £l6 12s. 6d. sterling for lead and £l5
for spelter, duty on buyer’s account in
each case, but in respect of which freight,
insurance, etc., from Australia would
have to be deducted.
Development, which has been pushed
ahead rapidly since the larger milling pro-
gramme was planned, has been satisfac-
tory, though last year proved ore reserves


THE ELECTROLYTIC REFINING & SMELTING COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED
WORKS: PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
Purchasers of all Copper and Gold-bearing Materials
25 O’Connell Street, SYDNEY.
86371.
360 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
M 4383.
ARE YOU GETTING CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES
AUSWMUIAN ABBOT
jGUTHRIDGE,
georgest ’
IiMjifefrBCfIHPEROQWN.
■ cvnNFv
I !-(Tl'i Hi Iv M ! R1 1 *
SYDNEY,
E Ft
If you are having trouble with
your water supply, either for
household or industrial purposes,
we can help you. We manufac-
ture water filters of all descrip-
tions. Our ABBOT pressure and
drip type filters used throughout
the Commonwealth and the East.
Our pressure filters used for Butter
Factories, Ice Works, Cordial
Factories, Hospitals and wherever
pure water is required.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
GUARANTEED!
FOR TWO YEARS^^^d
mm setting—
w
The keen, hollow-
ground Plum
Razor gives a
velvety - smooth,
extra comfortable
shave. The blade
is perfectly
tempered. All
Plum Razors are
fully guaranteed
and kept in order
for two years
free of charge.
Selected steel, black handle 12/0
Extra quality steel, xylo. handle 15/0
Superfine steel, ivory handle 217-
ALL POST FREE.
Plum Razor Guards, to fit S and J blades, 3/6 extra.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George «t., Sydney
ŵ
m
m
She has had him
assured in the
A.M.P.
5/- a week invested should give
him £250 when he is 16
m ore and more young mothers are making
sure that their babies will be able to
go to the University when they grow up.
For a yearly premium of £l2/15/- (roughly
five shillings a week), a father aged 28, with
a boy not yet a year old, can arrange with
the nearest A.M.P. office, or agent, that the
boy shall have £2OO when he is 16. Past
experience suggests that that £2OO will prob-
ably have grown, with bonuses, to about
£.258 by the time the boy is that age.
If the father be older than 28, the premium
will be a little more, hut not so 'much more
as to bother any man in work.
The father being the person assured, it can
be arranged that if lie should die before the
boy is 16, the money will he available for
the boy at his father’s death, either in a
lump sum or spread over three or four years.
This is the ideal plan for the man and
woman who want to ensure that their boy
(or girl) shall not be deprived of his (or
her) opportunity because something has
happened to Dad.
If you have a young son or daughter, don’t
delay a day. See the nearest A.M.P. office
and make the arrangement at once.
A.M.P.
SOCIETY
The Largest Mutual Life Office
in the Empire.
Sir Samuel Hordern, K.8.E., Chairman of the
Principal Board.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and
Actuary.
C. M. Martin, Chief Inspector and Secretary.
A. E. Webb, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE:
87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Branch Offices at Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
District Offices throughout all States.
New Zealand Office: Customhouse
Quay, Wellington.
" QUALCAST "
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
2?
MOTOR
MOWER
33
Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
have now
been sold
and are
giving every
satisfaction.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qucalcesst"
MODEL. “II”:
Bronze Bearing ..
Ball Bearing
Super “7” Ball B.
Lawnmowers
10in. 12in. 14in. ICin.
38/- 41/- 44/-
44/- 47/- 50/- 53/-
56/- 60/- 64/-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY
\LL LEADING HARDWARE STORES
did little more than keep ahead of the
mill:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Tons. Tons. Tons.
North .. .. 4,046,000 4,128,000 4,235,000
British .. .. 775.000 747.000 649.000
Junction . . .. 200,000 200.000 200,000
Total . . . . 5,021,000 5,075,000 5,084,000
But diamond-drilling at 2300 ft. in the
North mine has disclosed some excep-
tionally rich ore, and from a mining view-
point the outlook is decidedly promising.
The big outlay on plant has eaten into
North’s cash resources, and it now owes
the bank more than it has on deposit.
The position should soon improve. The
contract price of metals, f.o.b. Australian
ports, to be received for the remainder
of 1939-40 is something better than the
London price (freight, insurance and duty
payable) was in 1938-39. The improve-
ment, taking the effect of f.o.b. prices
into account, should represent a worth-
while amount spread over North’s entire
output.
The sharemarket, however, was not
pleased with the deal, and North ss. scrip
has been weaker at 465. On last year’s div.
basis it would take 23 years to have the
present market price returned. But last
year’s market for metals was particularly
depressed, and North had to pay out
heavily on plant and development, all ot
which should help rather than hinder
divs. in the future. Since the close of
accounts mining costs have been reduced
to ss. 3d. a ton, and recoveries have been
95.2 p.c. lead, 87.4 p.c. silver and 86.7 p.c.
zinc. Plant capacity is 750,000 tons for
50 working weeks, against 600,000 tons
originally aimed at.
Satupulo, N.L.
E. T. Miles, founder in 1906 of Tong-
kah Harbor, first Australian-controlled
tin-dredger in Asia, is chairman of this
co., which, with 47,000,000 c.y. of 9oz.
wash to be dug at March 31, has a pros-
pective life of 34 years at last term’s rate
of turnover.
Formed in Melbourne in 1926 to work
a property at Takuapa (Siam), the co.’s
early years were heavy going, owing to
buried timber, heavy sands and the hard
clay bottom. Pref. arrears of 16s. a
share were cleared in 1934, however, and
the ords. have had a total of 18s. per
share since.
With a minimum international quota
of 18,500 tons annually, Siam feels the
pinch of restriction much less than
Malayan producers. Thus Satupulo last
term earned enough to hand 4s. to its
prefs. and 2s. to its ords. with £2565 to
spare:—
, Dividends ■,
, —Per Share— N
Mar., Revenue. Exes.* Surplus. Pref. Old. Amt.
£ £ £ £
iQQ,a 1 55,269 34,328 20,941 6/- 3/- 25,470
ITo suspense accounts, £3200.
64,413 27,470 36,943 5/- 3/- 24,945
Written off development account, £9OOO.
84,313 33,497 50,810 6/- 4/- 32,910
Written off development account, £7293.
52,051 32,506 19,545 4/- 2/- 16,980
Written off development account, £4OOO.
* Including depreciation: £2325, 1935; £5074,
1936 ; £3279, 1937; £3502, 1938; £3412, 1939.
That was after writing off £3412 for de-
preciation and taking in the buffer-pool
contribution of 31 tons tin metal at cost.
A further £4OOO was struck off develop-
ment account, reducing the item to £2OOO.
Though lower-grade ground was dug to
keep the dredge working maximum time,
recoveries were again above the average
for the property:
1937. 1938. 1939.
Cubic yards dug.. 1,230,000 1,312,000 1,393,732
T. 0., tons.. .. 481.6 517.2 387.8
Average c.y., 1b... 0.87 0.88 0.62
Assay, p.c. .. 73.9 74.3
All-in costs, c.V... 4.54 d. 5.29 d. 5.34 d.
Net ore real’n, ton £149/1/7 £l3o/7/11
The dredge is reported in fair order, but
consideration is being given to the re-
placement of the old steam plant and
pumps with Diesel equipment. It should
mean much with regard to costs, now on
the high side.
For the first half of the current term
the co. has dug 809,000 c.y. for 0.671 b.
recoveries and a working profit of
£24,000-odd. Nominal assessment is 589
tons t.o. p.a. Current Siamese domestic
quota has been raised from 48 p.c. to
62.4 p.c. ( plus whatever bonuses may be
allotted), but little notice can be taken
of that figure owing to further juggling
of the international quota lifting it from
70 p.c. to 100 p.c. for the last quarter
of ’39.
Capital* is in 10,500 10 p.c. cum. prefs.
and 148,800 ords, all of £1 each. The
ords. have spurted to 325. in the market.
The prefs., which are seldom quoted,
enjoy first call on profits for a minimum
10 p.c. div., and participate share-for-
share with the ords. in any balance of
earnings. At March 31 £61,434 of the
balance-sheet total comprised more or
less liquids; outsiders were owed only
£2149.
A firming in the price of Consols has
been a feature of the stronger market for
Stock Exchange securities this last week
or two. With a big war-loan operation
in the offing it looks as though something
less than 4 p.c. will be the rate next time
the Loan Council authorises an issue.
Meantime the Sydney County Council’s
4L p.c. loan is going off smoothly. The
security is particularly attractive in com-
parison with other public-body deben-
tures.
* * * *
The Gordon tinmine at Irvinebank
(N.Q.) is developing nicely, and crushings
of the Chlorite lodestuff have been run-
ning from £l4 to £lB a ton. The last 84
tons of ore produced 11 tons black tin.
Recent profits have provided a large
Ingersoll compressor, a dam and sundry
renovations. Its monthly returns dress
up the grade of the Irvinebark State plant
to a reasonable figure, for some of the
shows are turning in under \ p.c. muck.
Such tin ore couldn’t pay coolie wages
in North Queensland.
* * *
Tin concentrates are stabilised at
around £l7O per ton at Herberton (N.Q.).
This price has been a standby to the old
field, which goes steadily on without pro-
ducing anything brilliant. The Canberra
was the last outstanding discovery, and it
put a pretty penny in Gilbert Petter’s
pockets. He deserved it as a loyal backer
of many Herberton shows that hit the
stars temporarily only to fade on a
barren head. The Canberra put out 44
tons, worth £3O a ton, the other day, but
it is becoming increasingly hard to main-
tain the grade. The Cornishman is the
other mainstay of the field, and its last
crushing of 86 tons gave 14 tons of con-
centrates. But another Irishman is badly
wanted to revive this field, which stood
for years as the best tin centre north of
Capricorn.
* H= * *
Golden Gate reef, on Croydon (N.Q.),
was the first thing that put men on the
pad in a rush to the Gulf country. Many
a prospector’s heart was gladdened by its
gold at the very grass-roots. It is re-
ported that one of the old school has hit
the real thing on this line and that 20
tons of 3oz. ore has been grassed. It
sounds like the Golden Gate grade of
ore, but the “Wild Cat” is waiting to see
the report confirmed by the returns from
the battery. Bill Irvine is the lucky man ;
he has been on the field for many years,
and has known its ups and downs.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Enterprise Mines, on the
Golden Mile, is stepping along in good
style. The Is. 6d. payable Nov. 15
makes 2s. 6d. a share (£34,375) to date in
the current term, as against 6d. in the
initial operating period April-Dee.,
1938. Boulder Perseverance shares in the
distribution by reason of its 65.2 p.c.
interest (through Kalgoorlie Enterprise
Gold Mines, the holding co.) in the
operating concern, which handled 43,000
tons in the nine months to September
for a working surplus, after charging de-
velopment, of £A58,320; production was
worth £127,250.
* * * *
All Edna May Amalg.’s £17,529 profit
for the year ended June went back into
the mine in development (£6692) and new
shaft, etc. (£11,210). Though head
values were a half-’weight down, re-
coveries were better, battery extraction
improving from 76.4 p.c. to 83.8 p.c.
Two years’ results:
Head Av.
Year, Treated, Value, Gold, Yield,
June, Tons. Dwt. Oz. Dwt. Profit.
1938.. 11,713 8.28 3709 6.33 £593
1839.. 18,137 7.78 5910- .6.52 17,529
In addition, 9600 tons of tailings cyanided
yielded 5240 z. gold, an average of
I.o9dwt. —a 75 p.c. extraction ; capacity
has since been lifted to 1500 tons
monthly. Wage increases amounted to
13s. 4d. per man weekly, but all-in costs,
not comparable, as they include re-treat-
ment exes, last term, were got back from
555. 6d. to 465. 2d. per ton of ore
milled. Sufficient ore is said to be avail-
able above 385 ft. to keep the mill going
till ore-production on the 426 ft. level in
the Central commences. More or less
liquids amounted to £15,718 at June 30 ;
the debt was then £2960.
* =K *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) pays a shilling
interim div. on Dec. 4 to shareholders
registered on Nov. 13. Future divs. will
go out half-yearly—an interim in Dec. and
a final at the annual meeting, usually in
June. By the time the next meeting is
held co.’s No. 2 treatment plant on the
Croesus Proprietary block is expected to
be in full operation. No. 1 plant is
operated jointly by North Kalgurli and
Boulder Perseverance and is on the
latter’s mine.
BRIEF ANSWERS.
E.H.N.: Little to choose; Yarra Falls may
prove solider in the long run C.E.: Informa-
tion posted... .J.T.K.: Scrip not listed, but the
ords. have an unofficial market around 4s. 6d.
Production commenced at the end of March.
... .E.H.: (1) £lOO sterling = £125 Australian.
(2) Yes. (3) No. Rate is fixed by the Com-
monwealth Bank. Appreciation of the Aus-
tralian pound in terms of sterling may possibly
occur, however, owing to Britain’s resort to
credit-expansion to meet her great war commit-
ments W.C.: No information of co., but
scrip quotations have been sent... .F.A.L.:
“‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” posted G.H.J.:
One of the better-type forestry concerns,
but still a gamble at long odds. Last review
posted. Long-run outlook shows little change
since. No open market for the shares....
Oxo: Very fair prospects, provided you are
prepared to wait awhile for dividends....
A.K.8.: Don’t recommend... .W.E.0.: You
are a shareholder in N.Z. Forest Products,
which is bringing the forests to the realisa-
tion stage as originally contracted... .G.W.D.:
Depends on provisions of the co.’s Articles.
If no Articles registered, Table F of the N.S.W.
Act provides that, in a no-liability mining co.,
every member shall have one vote for each
share held up to 10, an additional vote for
every five shares to 100, and one further vote
for every 15 shares over 100.


SMOKE-OH!
“Hey, you ain't knockin' of till you punch the bundy."
“Women spend approximately two-thirds
of the country’s wealth.” — Weekly.
And men spend the rest on women.
•h *!•
“After the Czechs secretly put eggs in their
petrol, the German tanks were known as
‘Hitler’s Omelets.’ ” — Article.
It is to be hoped that the Allies have
them on toast.
•I* *i*
You can tell a horse’s age by its teeth
and a politician’s by his jaw.
-<• 4 1
“It’s amazing what an egg will do for your
face.” —Beauty hint.
Particularly if it’s thrown from the
gallery.
4" ■i*
“Film stars rush to the colors.”
—Talkie blurb.
Perhaps they don’t photograph so well
in black and white.
"J*
“The British Navy has perfected anew
listening device.” — News.
Manned, no doubt, by men who in
peace-time were flat-dwellers.
<s• 4* A? *l*
“Rhine Still Rising.”— Heading.
Like petrol, tea and taxes.
ẃ
“Women ambulance drivers.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
That’s one way of running patients to
earth.
►l*
“He told the Court that he was a journalist.”
—Libel case.
He was then asked to state what he did
for a living.
4* 4*
“Fire in broom factory.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Firemen bristled when even the fire
swept through.
•I* 4* 4* 4 1
“Poets and authors have been inspired by
dreams.” — Women’s paper.
After they marry them the nightmare
starts, and they wake up.
4* 4* *i*
“Publication of the journal of the British
Astrological Society has been suspended in-
definitely. The reason given is that the
immediate future is too uncertain astro-
logical predictions.” —‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
Yet a close study of the aspects of
Uranus in the 55th house reveals clearly
that it will be unlucky to walk under
a moving train on Boxing Day, and
that if things don’t alter when Mars
aspects Venus then they’ll stop as they
are.
4 1 4* 4* 4*
“Temperance workers offer to instal milk
bars at military camps.”
Wouldn’t the sergeant-major’s language
curdle the milk?
•P 4*
“You can’t make a decent film for less than
£50,000.” —Film blurb.
This supports our contention that an
economy campaign has been in operation
in Hollywood.
4* 4* 4*
“War makes it hard for a spinster.”
— Women’s paper.
Man Ahoy!
“Cruise ships swarm with women. Luscious
sirens who wouldn’t even give him a second
glance on shore roll their eyes languishingly at
the little runt with the sparse hair , and the
watermelon tummy.” —“Sunday Sun.”
These cruising girls grow savage when
At sea they start to hunt their men.
Knobs on their knees, thin, fat or
tough —
A man’s a man, and that’s enough.
Even the one who looks so rummy
And sports a watermelon tummy
Feels, when he’s stalked by flirts so
greedy,
He’s more than usually seedy !
MC.
The Impossible.
“An astronomer says that the solar system
will soon be travelling at 11 miles per second
straight towards a fixed star.”
The celestial combat, as described by
a radio sporting commentator:
“Well, listeners, here’s your favorite
sporting snooper with his optic glued to
the lens of a two-hundred-inch tele-
scope. I’m right on the box seat, getting
a close-up of old Sol, who is looking a
bit hot from the effort of the terrific
burst of speed he’s putting up. He’s got
the poor old fixed star ab-so-lootly para-
lysed. It just can’t get out of the way
of the big fellow. You should see his
satellites, too, tearing along with him,
simply curdling the Milky Way with a
searing, dizzy pace that is nothing short
of colossal.
“Well, the Solar System is still after his
man. Here he is, crashing through limit-
less space, and the shock as he hurtles
against his stellar opponent must rock our
universe to its very foundations. Closer
and closer it comes, carrying weight that
nothing off the earth can possibly with-
stand. He simply can’t miss the fixed star.
“Hold on to your seats now, and brace
yourselves for the inevitable crash! Here
it is. There must be an explosion that
will shatter the star, the pieces of which
will fly in a meteoric shower into the
illimitable, around which they will rush
headlong through a million eternities.
“Now" here it is! The Solar System
simply can’t miss it. No, he can’t. He...
yes, he’s missed it!”
BO.
Hints for the Home.
What should one do on spotting a cobra
Knotting himself round the candelabra ?
Attach his tail to the nearest tap
And use the brute for a hose, old chap.
MACHOOTS.
ẅ
PERCIBAL.
A Question of Caste.
“According to a Sydney police official, many
of the burglaries that have been committed in
the suburbs lately are obviously the work of
amateurs.”
This indiscriminate incursion by lily-
whites into what is, after all, one of our
oldest, and has been up till now one of
our most exclusive, vocations will be
deeply resented by those professionals
who have selflessly devoted their lives
to it, and by none, I know, more than
by my Uncle Claude.
Uncle is proud of his professionalism.
He makes no bones about it. As he says,
he is not in the game for his health, or
for any honor and glory, or even for
that stimulating excitement which attracts
so many • amateurs, but, as he rather
crudely puts it, “for the Oscar.”
Moreover, he has ever been a stickler
for the ethics of the game. Whilst he
would display no marked objection, on
occasions, to an amateur burglar crack-
ing the same crib with him, invariabtv
before the job was finished he would
make sure that the other had not in-
fringed his amateur status by taking any
remuneration.
One incident I recall tested his convic-
tions on this point. Uncle Claude had
bored his way into a bank just before
dawn, only to find when he got to the
vault door an amateur —and a rank one
at that —searching with a torch for the
top of his finger that carelessly placed
“jelly” had blown off. Uncle helped him
recover it, and even bound it on again
for him, after which he proceeded to open
the door. He gave an exhibition of speed
and precision which had the amateur’s
ears flapping, and added a running ex-
planation as he worked, for to give a
helping hand to those who aspired to
win honors in his beloved profession was
with Uncle an obsession.
When they got inside the vault Uncle
Claude naturally concentrated on the col-
lection of that specie that was the object
of his visit. Chancing to glance up after
a while, he was surprised to find that he
was alone. Tiptoeing outside, he saw a
light in the manager’s office. There was
the amateur, busily writing. Creeping
up and taking a look over his shoulder,
Uncle was horrified to see that he was
making out an order on a sporting firm for
£lO, which amount he must have pocketed
while in the vault. Justifiably incensed
at this despicable attempt to circumvent
the restrictions his amateur status im-
posed on him, Uncle unhesitatingly shot
his companion. Three through the giz-
zard, I think he let him have. Uncle
also took the tenner, which, after all, was
rightly his.
There were other differences between
the two branches that Uncle insisted
should be rigidly adhered to. Were an
amateur to be sharing the same job with
him, he would always follow the best
Marylebone and Lord’s traditions and
see that the amateur went out by one
door (or window, according to neces-
sity) and he by another. If the door
(or window) by which the lilywhite de-
parted happened to be one at which a
caretaker or flatfoot was likely to be
snooping—a likelihood which my avun-
cular relative’s vast experience would
lead him to anticipate—he would regard
it merely as added proof of the
superiority of professionalism over
amateurism (“traps for young players’’
he would laughingly designate such
thuds).
After many years of successful prac-
tice my uncle, long recognised as the
doyen of the city’s cracksmen, was
elected president of the Breakers-and-
Enterers’ Association. His presidency
was marked by a decision touching
amateurism which is now regarded
almost as case-law on the subject.
It arose from the application of a
professional burglar* Joe Slorkins, to be
readmitted into the amateur ranks, from
which he had graduated to professional
status after some years of steady climb-
ing.
In the course of his duties Joe had
one night broken into the home of an
exceedingly plain but wealthy spinster,
who, waking suddenly when Joe sneezed,
trapped him under the bed. She gave
him the option of jail or marriage. Joe,
taking one good look at her under the
strong light, unhesitatingly plumped for
jail. Then, recalling, that his next time
“up” he was to be “declared,” he gamely
reversed his decision.
Whilst Joe had no longer any need
for the professional benefits of burglary,
nevertheless he wished to keep his hand
in as an amateur, the game having got
into his blood. Uncle decided after
grave consideration that he could be
“whitewashed,” quoting other spheres in
which this was the general practice. This
aroused a storm of protest from the
diehard lilywhites of the association, and
only Uncle’s diplomacy in imposing a
probationary period of three months on
the applicant, during which time he had
to give the proceeds of h ; s b’ I " rrl ' :,, ' i es
to charity—a euphemism for Uncle —
prevented an irremeaiaoie spin among
the members.
S. W. K.
“Stay there while I go into reverse !”


& SWS3Q®a
OF QUALITY
SINCE 1857
* ii
>
ORB
Away back in 1857 John Lysaght manufactured the first
"ORB” brand Galvanized Iron. To-day, this famous
brand is a world-wide symbol of quality. The yearly
output from the Newcastle and Port Kembla worts is
over 12,000,000 sheets, and more than £500,000 per
annum are paid directly in wages to Australian workmen.
Hundreds of thousands of tons of Australian coal, steel
and zinc are also used in this great national industry.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Sydney Brisbane Melbourne Adelaide Fremantle
EVERY SHEET
GUARANTEED
è
B
m
a
SI
m
11
i
i
■m
■
H
H
K
.
&
famm
mm
■■■■
I
V v
Hi
mmm.
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
■
H
I
■
, y :
; 1
m
n
Hi:.
■
a
■Hi
K
AUSTRALIA- ITALIA
SHOPM© gm
249 GEORGE ST, SYDNEY
Business, Robbery, Etc.
Our Managed Finances
This war is still a great source of
speculation to those so inclined. “Remote
control” of finance and increasing Gov-
ernment supervision of prices and con-
duct of operations have given prophecy
a different basis to work on compared
with the Great War. In the days before
the vogue of paper currency gold coin
was always a valuable and reliable thing
to have, and consequently prices ex-
pressed in gold coin might vary pretty
much in accordance with supply of,
and demand for, commodities and ser-
vices.
Nowadays the position isn’t so simple
or definite. In an intermediate position
we had paper notes backed wholly or
largely by gold. At present our note
issue is principally backed by sterling
and other securities, and it has an
additional backing that is valuable but
invisible —experience. In certain circum-
stances the note issue might be sub-
stantially increased in order to facili-
tate some phase of economic activity—
such as extraordinary business activity
resulting from rising prices, the rising
prices being perhaps due in the first in-
stance to inflation in costs. And the
inflation in costs might be due in part
to waste caused by war, or to waste of
public money.
Our money, in Australia, has moved
from the point where it was largely a
metallic currency to a point where it is
largely a “scientific” or managed cur-
rency. We are endeavoring in our man-
agement to put a reasonable value, in
terms of our money, on land, goods,
services, etc., and to keep those prices
(in terms of our currency) stable where
the intrinsic worth of the thing priced
neither rises nor falls. In other words,
the buying-power of our money should
remain free from sharp fluctuations.
Where, through the continuing work of
nearly 7,000,000 people, the value of our
country as a habitable portion of the
globe increases, it is not only natural but
inevitable that the credit of the country
should expand also. And where there is
a sound basis for such credit expansion,
which is only partly indicated through a
growth in the note issue, most of it being
noticeable in the expansion of trading-
bank figures and in the national debt,
it will be observed that the cost of the
ordinary simple things of life—the cost
of living, in other words —neither rises
nor falls sharply.
* But where the work of our 7,000,000
people is partly represented by waste—
waste that has to be paid for—the ex-
pansion in our credit is not equalled by
the growth in the value of our assets.
A. warship that cost £2,000,000 is, when
sunk in the sea, worth nothing to us. We
have a debt of £2,000,000 but no warship.
We may spend £5,000,000 on a Govern-
ment job which, when finished, is at the
most worth £3,000,000. Here we have
another £2,000,000 of debt unrepresented
by value. Unless we make good the un-
represented portion of these . debts by
paying extra taxes (assuming that the
taxes are applied in repayment of those
debts and not to build other white
elephants) our credit begins to suffer
from inflation. The buying-power of
our pound shrinks. All costs start to
rise, and then prices. We have lost that
aimed-at stability which is the essential
idea in all currency management.
When war breaks out the national
waste may be on a colossal scale, accord-
ing to the size of the
war. Unless we
pay for this wastage
largely in taxation,
inflation is inevit-
able. If we pay
largely in taxation to
begin with we feel
almost the full bur-
den of the onslaught
immediately, and we
know the reason
why ; but we should
be able to see that
our credit has been
kept more or less in
order. If, by finan-
cial juggling, we
defer the day of
reckoning, we may
not feel the full
weight of the' wast-'
age of war until ten
years later, when the
“capitalistic system”
or something else
will be popularly
blamed rather than
the war. This hap-
pened to almost the whole world
in 1930. The Great War was primarily,
but not wholly, responsible for the
depression. “Remote control” of finance
in post-war years was largely an experi-
ment, and in this experimental form it
went mad. This time we want no such
insanity.
Petrol rose another penny a gallon last
week. First-grade is now 25., of which
Byd. represents tax, a penny having been
added to the duty in September, follow-
ing the outbreak of war. In N. S. Wales
there was a lift of a penny in January ;
it brought prices into line with other
States. The latest lift is due to increased
importing costs ; exchange on neutrals is
up about 14 p.c., and shipping, insur-
ance, etc., rates are higher. Possibly old
stocks brought into the Commonwealth
before war was declared are still avail-
able to the oil cos., but the price in-
crease has the sanction of the comm is-
sioner. It is now said to be costing 3|d.
a gallon more to import petrol, and it
is inferred that by charging an extra
penny on old stocks the rise in price
when new shipments have to be drawn
on won’t be so steep because of the
present “averaging.”
* * * *
It is interesting to note that Britain is
paying 13yd. a pound, plus half profits
on any resales, for Australian wool this
war, as against 15yd. during the Great
War. The cost of living now is about a
third higher than in 1914, though not so
high as in 1920. At first sight there seems
to be something wrong with such an
arrangement. But we have to admit that
what we are to get is 3d. a pound better
than last season, and if no inflation in
costs occurs most growers will do reason-
ably well. This not overgenerous price
“ Orright , then — let's toss for 'em!"
seems to signal something to Australia,
however, and it is just this: Don’t let us
be lured into the habit of adding a little
extra on to costs here and a little extra
on to prices there, because the price we
are getting for our staple products won’t
stand it. If internal costs and prices
make the export of wool at 13|d. un-
profitable, then everyone had better look
out. Profiteers themselves will be boiled
in an oil of their own concoction if the
credit position loses its balance.
* * # *
. A
Announcement of a furthei rise of £4
a ton in the cost of newsprint brought
further grogginess to the market for
newspaper shares last week. Associated
ords. slipped to below 165., sellers offered
“Truth” ords. at par after sales at the
already-lowered figure of 215., and sellers
of Consolidated prefs. asked a reduced
quote, but buyers were all out of sight.
“Herald” (Melb.) shares changed hands
at 575. 6d. ; they dropped to that figure
(from 605.) at the outbreak of war.
* * * *
The Tariff Board has recommended
the granting of a British preferential
tariff of £3 10s. a ton (£7 10s. a ton
general) on printing, writing and type-
writing papers (not mill-glazed) “the
furnish of which includes up to 25 p.c.
mechanical pulp.” A general tariff of £4
a ton (British free) on some special and
fancy papers is recommended, and on all
papers containing more than 25 p.c.
mechanical pulp. The board points out
that evidence was taken before the out-
break of war, and says that the recom-
mendations might not apply under exist-
ing conditions. Associated Pulp and
Paper, the Burnie (Tas.) co. making paper
out of gum-trees, etc., asked for the duty,
* * * *
The price Australia will receive for
butter sold to Britain during the next 12
months will be 1365. 4yd. Aust. per cwt.,
f.0.b., for choicest. Cheese will be sold
at something like 725. per cwt., f.o.b. Up
substantially on the net returns received
prior to the outbreak of war, butter sold
overseas will now bring in to the pro-
ducer something near" the price of that
disposed locally at 160 s. wholesale per
cwt.
* * * *
Australia’s meat exports have been
S °H to Britain for 12 months from Oct.
1 at prices approximating the averages
for 1938.
T *„* * _ *
the first three weeks of appraise-
which began on 9 ct - 9, 350,000
bales of wool had been dealt with. By
the end of this month it is expected that
840,000 bales will have been appraised,
That will represent 27 p.c. of the clip,
Growers are to receive 90 n.c. of the pro-
ceeds within 14 days.


Auction Sale.
Under Instructions from
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED},
Executor of the Will of the late William Macleod.
CITY,
Nos. 212 and 214 GEORGE STREET.
On the east side, a few doors north of Bridge
Street, adjoining the George Parking Station, and
formerly the Home of the “Bulletin” Newspaper.
The Building is of brick, with iron roof, and
C ° BASEMENT, GROUND, and 5 UPPER FLOORS.
The Property is Let to the Bulletin Newspaper
Co., Ltd., on Lease, expiring Ist December, 1939.
THE LAND has a frontage of about
30 FEET 2J INCHES' TO GEORGE STREET,
by depth of 75 feet 6 inches and‘73 feet 11 inches,
with a rear measurement of 25 feet 9 inches.
NOTE- —Included in the sale.is all the. Estate’s
Torrens Title Rights, and' Interests in, the right-of-
way which runs at the back of the property, and
opens into Underwood Street .....
Full Particulars on Application.
TORRENS TITLE. ’ ; •} f
Terms: Cash, or''one-third' cash, the balance on
Mortgage for 3 years at 5 per cent, per annum.
Solicitor: J. G. O’Brien, Esq., 129 Pitt Street,
HAR.DIE & GORMAN; PROPRIETARY, ’LIMITED,
in conjunction with A. Ei GRAY, Old South
Head Road, Rose ; Bay, will 'Offer the above ut
Auction, in the Sale Rooms, Ocean House, 36 Martin
Plnne ‘it 11 a.m. Oil
WEDNESDAY. 29th NOVEMBER, 1939.
IS YOUR MONEY
LYING IDLE OR
EARNING LITTLE
INTEREST ?
You can obtain
4%%
WITH UNCHALLENGEABLE SECURITY
by investing in
THE SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
LOAN OF £600,000.
Issued at Par .... 10 years’ Currency
SIMPLE
TO BUY
- i
o
H
fJtfNT
PESiV
<P®*'
SAFE
TO HOLD
AN AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT IN N.S.W.
EQUALLY SUITABLE FOR
THE £5O or £50,000 INVESTOR
The Loan is an ideal investment for Provident and Superannuation
Funds, Friendly Societies, Trade Unions, Public Institutions, Religious,
Charitable, Educational and Scientific Organisations and also for private
individuals and trustees of wills and estates.
GREAT FINANCIAL INTERESTS IN
LONDON, NEW YORK AND AUSTRALIA
v
have already provided over £14,000,000 for the development of
Sydney’s electric power scheme, conducted by The Sydney County
Council, thus establishing the high credit standing of the Council.
HELP TO SPEED UP THE WHEELS
OF INDUSTRY IN THE NATIONAL
INTEREST.
The Loan Money will be used to extend Sydney’s electrical supply,
which is vital to Australia’s wartime programme of industrial
expansion.
INVEST NOW AT 4*%
as no more attractive investment
with equivalent security is obtainable.
INTEREST ON YOUR MONEY BEGINS IMMEDIATELY
YOUR APPLICATION REACHES THE COMMON-
WEALTH BANK OR THE COUNCIL.
APPLY TO
Any Branch of the COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA,
or through the Head Office of The Sydney County Council, or any
Recognised Stock Broker.
EARLY APPLICATION IS ESSENTIAL
AS ALLOTMENTS ARE MADE DAILY
Loan Underwritten by
J. B. WERE & SON,
Members of The Stock ExchangeJ of Melbourne, 375 Collins Street, Melbourne;
44 Martin Place, Sydney.
If you cannot call for a Prospectus, a copy will be posted
to you on application to the Council or any Branch of
the Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
The sharemarket displayed mixed be-
havior in Australia last week. New York
was uncertain, though London was
mostly steady. B.H.P. shares were very
strong, but Electro.-Zincs were quiet at
565. Aust. Consolidated Industries re-
mained firm, Fairymead Sugar lifted to
385., Felt and Textiles was strong on
publication of increased profits, and
other concerns that had been given
only casual support of late showed in-
creased strength ; but many of the more
active issues, including the Aust. Paper
Mfrs. group, lost ground. Pastorals
weren’t quite as buoyant as when the
wool appraisement scheme was first an-
nounced, and some of the woollen textile
cos. were a shade easier; but Bradford
Cotton was buoyant, though Davies, Coop
weakened slightly. Hosiery stocks, with
perhaps the exception of Holeproof, were
dull. Shares in H. B. Dickie, the Vic-
torian towel manufacturer, went to a
record price of 295. 9d., with buyers still
interested. Henry Jones shares were
keenly sought after announcement of the
increased div., but sellers were hard to
find. There was a rise in Tooth scrip to
over 505., but Carlton remained dull, and
Castlemaine Perkins was still obtainable
at a bargain price.
* H= * *
The small dredge of Tableland Tin,
operating at Mt. Garnet (Q.), is now
working satisfactorily at full capacity.
Recoveries of tin concentrate from
66,000 c.y. (Oct. 6-31) totalled tons,
worth £4150 and showing a net profit
of £2OOO.
* * tK *
The inflating nature of the taxation
burden is shown up in the latest
accounts of the Myer Emporium, Mel-
bourne. After allowing ordinary trading
exes, net profit was a few hundred
pounds higher at £380,080. After pro-
vision for taxation had been attended
to the amount available for distribution
was £14,289 lower at £300,080. The
amount available for ord. shareholders
dropped to-13.6 p.c., against 14.5 p.c.,
but the 9 p.c. div. was still covered
amply. At 295. the yield is £6 4s. per
cent.
» * * *
The drop in earnings by the subsidiaries
of United Provisions (from £68,496 to
£57,490) disappointed the sharemarket. A
3 p.c. div. had been declared prior to
announcement of the profit, and it had
encouraged supporters to believe that
earning-power had at least been main-
tained. Actually the rate fell from
3.4 p.c. on ord. capital to 2.1 p.c. The
organisation’s finances, however, remain
in good condition, with adequate depre-
ciation allowance made each year, and
chances are that the current term will be
more favorable to the marketing of pre-
served foods and bacon than the one
under review. The ord. .shares fell from
9s. 2d. to Bs. 7d. following publication
of the accounts, then steadied at Bs. lid.
They have been as low as 6s. lOd. and
as high as 9s. lid. this year.
* * * *
Ex rights, Castlemaine Perkins 12s. 6d.
shares sold at 18s. lid. in Sydney last
week, giving a yield of 6.4 p.c. should
the current 10 p.c. distribution be main-
tained. If, because of the larger capital
calling for divs. or for any other reason,
the rate drops back to 8 p.c. (which would
call for slightly less profit than was distri-
buted last term), the yield would be
5.1 p.c.
* * * *
Younghusband, Ltd., the Victorian
woolbroking concern, has already indi-
cated anticipations of a better year dur-
ing 1939-40. Interim div. for the current
term, declared last week, is at the rate
of 8 p.c. p.a. against 6 p.c. p.a. last term,
when a higher final made. 1\ p.c. for the
year. In July this year the co. made a
new issue of 100,000 shares (bringing
paid capital to £500,000), and the in-
terim declared last week is also payable
on this scrip pro rata. Something more
than 10 p.c. of the wool clip has now
been appraised, and by early December
nearly a third of the cheque should be
in growers’ hands.
* * * *
Following announcement by the Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange that Australasian
Paper 8 p.c. prefs. had equal participat-
ing rights with the ords., and would there-
fore be entitled to share in the distri-
bution of scrip in the operating co. if
a merger is decided on, the prefs. in Cum-
berland Paper, the other arm in the con-
trol of A.P.M., have jumped into the
market eye. Last week the first and
second issues were priced more highly
than the ords. Which, according to the
opinion given here long before any
merger scheme was formulated, is en-
tirely as it should be. Except that they
have a less active market than the ords.,
they have all the advantages of the ords.,
plus pref. rights as to div. and capital.
* * * *
The Bank of England’s discount rate
having returned to its peace-time rate of
2 p.c., apparently the financial authori-
ties believe that the increased price placed
on gold will take care of the flight from
sterling. Taken in conjunction with the
minimum prices fixed for Government
stocks, it looks as though the cost of
money in Britain will be kept at a mod-
erate figure.
* ■ *
Henry Jones, the big fruit-canning con-
cern that started in Tasmania and. has
since spread its activities throughout Aus-
tralia and to some overseas countries,
has been one of the stocks to appreciate
in price since war broke out. A div. at
the rate of 11| p.c. has just been
declared for the year. Supplying the
forces with jam, preserves, etc., appar-
ently is a job that the IXL people can
be expected to participate in in Europe
as well as Australia. H. Jones shares, of
which there are 1,430,173 issued, sold
steadily at 555. last week, yielding a
shade over 4 p.c. on an \\\ p.c.
div. basis. They have been as low
as 475. 6d. this year, and have aver-
aged 50s. most of the time. The co.
is a holding concern —its balance sheet
is most uninformative —and what the
scrip is really worth represents a problem
to set one’s native cunning. But it is
undoubtedly a good stock, though the
immediate yield to the investor is not
high.
* * * *
The following figures represent Ger-
many’s retained imports of certain* raw
materials during 1937 and 1938 compared
with figures for 1933:
In Metric Tons.
1933. 1937. 1938.
Crude oil .. 280,600 1,197,900 1,326,400
Refined oil .. 1,826,000 3.109,400 3,640,600
Rubber .. 54,000 122,900 108,200
Cotton.. .. 401,300 347,500 351,100
Wool .. .. 174,600 126,600 164,800
Iron ore .. 4,527,500 20,414,900 21,922,200
Manganese ore 129,600 553,400 425,000
Copper ore .. 229,900 551,000 648,300
Lead ore .. 105,200 126,800 141,000
Zinc ore .. *22,400 101,300 137,100
Chrome ore .. 47,400 132,200 176,400
Nickel ore .. 34,500 20,000 34,200
Bauxite .. 239,100 1,313,200 1,184,600
Pyrites .. 811,100 1,437,000 1,405,800
Aluminium .. *4OO 5,600 15,900
Copper .. 164,200 252,800 356,200
Tin .. 11,500 10,200 11,800
Lead .. 21,700 72,900 74,800
Spelter .. 80,600 70,500 68,000
Nickel .. 2,000 3,200 3,900
* Net exports.
The year 1933 was one of depression, so
that the huge increase in imports four
or five years later cahnot all be ascribed
to war preparation. It will be noticed,
however, how, even in comparison with
1933, the Reich’s imports of both wool
and cotton fell away during 1937 and
1938 owing to expansion in the staple
fibre industry. The figures, taken all
round, indicate vast construction activity
in Germany during recent years.
*>'* • * *
There was recovery in Gordon and
Gotch ords., 475. being paid at one stage
—up 4s. on the lowest quote since war
commenced. Then 465. was again
accepted by sellers. The price repre-
sented 11s: 6d. below the highest
quote of this year. It will be in-
teresting to see how this periodical-
importing and paper-merchandising busi-
ness eventually fares. Apparently a fear
that shipping difficulties will arise and
disturb supplies has been responsible for
most of the fall in the shares. At the
lower price, however, the ord. shares
have had more activity than for several
years past. The co.’s distribution of Aus-
tralian periodicals represents a substan-
tial part of. its. business, though papers
from overseas are a very big item.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
COMMUNIST CONTORTIONS.
[ln the first of these items, which deal generally
with Communists and the war, George Malcolm
Thomson describes how Britain’s Reds, like their Aus-
tralian comrades, have had to make clowns of them-
selves at the command of Moscow. But though
discredited now, and professing themselves against the
war they once furiously urged, they remain alive to
the fact that a long war would be their greatest, if
not their only, chance of revival. In another of these
items Ward Price supports that view and gives some
first-hand information on former Communist activities
in Germany.]
The Great Somersault Act
(George Malcolm Thomson, in the “Daily Express.'')
Will nobody shed a tear for the unfortunate Com-
munist party of Great Britain, now apparently in pro-
cess of disintegration? Their plight is pitiable. Like
the bedraggled clowns of a bankrupt travelling circus,
the poor, bamboozled comrades stagger along, whining
the “Internationale” to the tune of the “Horst Wessel
Song.”
Once they were dazed by the hope of a better
day, in which the Kremlin would preside benignly
over a world from which the last “Fascist bandit,” the
last “Nazi bully,” had been extirpated. They are still
dizzy, but now it is with the endless spinning and
wheeling which the master in Moscow demands.
Every time they look at that photograph of Stalin
shaking hands with the Fascist bandit Ribbentrop, “ex-
champagne salesman, friend of Mayfair” (official
“Daily Worker” description), it gives them a new
turn. No kulak was ever treated so badly. Even
Trotsky, the arch-wrecker, the Fascist agent, was only
sent to Mexico. He wasn’t made to swallow his prin-
ciples, deny in public his own publicly proclaimed
utterances and reduce to abject, naked absurdity his
daily declarations in an all-time record of quick-time
recantation and ignominy.
That is what has happened to the comrades.
They are up to their necks in the ridicule into which
Joe the Unkind has plunged them. They look about
them, and whose hands do they see outstretched? None
but those of Mosley’s heroes hawking “Action” in
the next gutter. Also those of the Pacifists, to whom
the “Daily Worker” addressed stern words on August
12: “Pacifists have become valuable allies of the
Nazi conquerors. May they realise this before it is
too late.”
Early in September, Harry Pollitt’s pamphlet,
“How to Win the War,” declared: “The Communist
party supports the war, believing it to be a just war
which should be supported by the whole working class
and all friends of democracy in Britain.” The Com-
munists were urging the embattled workers to sell
these stirring sentiments in every factory, to “buy
extra copies and pass them on to your mates.”
In the same pamphlet there appeared a Com-
munist party manifesto, dated September 2: “We are
in support of all necessary measures to secure the vic-
tory of democracy over Fascism.”
But what did the local Kremlin say on October 6?
It screamed for peace. “Stop the war,” it shouted.
And why? Because “this war is not a war for democ-
racy against Fascism. It is not a war for the liberty
of small nations. It is not a war for the defence of
peace against aggression.”
In September last year the “Daily Worker” was
pouring out the fiery flood and not choking over it.
Old readers of the newspaper remember when, day
after day, the cry went up, “Stop bullying the Czechs,”
“Stop Hitler,” “No concessions to Hitler.”
The Prime Minister met Hitler, as Stalin has
since met Ribbentrop. And what did the “Daily
Worker” say? “Never has a Prime Minister stooped
so low in the service of war dictators as Chamberlain.”
Those were the days before the fire of the Communist
party had become its porridge!
In March this year, when Hitler took Prague,
the comrades’ volcano had another spurt. Almost
every day they detected hints of a new sell-out, “an
unmistakable stench of Munichism.” “Now,” screamed
the “Daily Worker,” “while Hitler’s barbaric legions
march like the plague across Europe, is the time for
the Labor party to reach out and, in alliance with the
huge forces of British democracy and patriotism in all
parties, to go in and win.”
How shrill the warlike clamor of the “Daily
Worker” in the days of peace, when it was confident
that the “reactionary pro-Fascist” Chamberlain would
make a deal with Hitler! When August brought the
Polish crisis, it sombrely announced: “The British
people are looking for the double-cross.”
Well, they certainly got it.
$ $ $
[Last week’s “Uncabled Additions” included a letter
on Communist war policy by Freda Utley, who, in a
Manchester “Guardian” article, further discusses
possible Communist policy.]
A change is likely to come in the policy of the
Comintern and hence in the tactics and propaganda of
the British and French Communist parties. It can
with some confidence be prophesied that the docile
and subservient members of the Communist parties
will now be instructed to return to the pre-1934 line —
that is, to denouncing the Labor and Socialist parties as
“Social Fascist,” exposing the “sham of bourgeois
democracy,” and, most important of all, to anti-
imperialist agitation in India, Algiers, Morocco, Egypt
and the British and French colonies in other parts of
the world. Here we are vulnerable. Here there is a
fertile field for propaganda and agitation. The native
peoples of Africa, the West Indies and India are ex-
ploited, and few would have the hardihood to main-
tain that these peoples enjoy democratic rights and
liberties. Nationalist sentiment in India and among
the Arab peoples is strong, and if the Communists
and the U.S.S.R. are not too much discredited by
their many changes from Left to Right and vice versa
they can help to fan the flames. Russia’s national
interest will be their guiding principle as heretofore;
there will not be any concern with the emancipation
of the colonial peoples, but this need not make them
weaker.
* * * * *
(Maurice Webb in the “Daily Herald.”)
The quick-fire change has proved too much even
for some of the most unquestioning followers of the
shifts and somersaults of the British Communists.
Some of them are talking about setting up an inde-
pendent party.
The rebels are not complaining about the moral
aspects of the change of policy. Consistency of moral
principle never yet troubled the true Communist. Their
complaint is that the demand to stop the war against
Hitler is not in the long-term interests of Russia or
Communism. They argue—and their case seems crystal
clear —that the removal of the challenge in the west
will leave Hitler free to untangle himself from his
eastern embarrassments. But if we continue to fight,
it will be easier for Russian and Communist influence
to expand.
The orthodox will not accept this thesis. Their
answer is a short one. “What Moscow says is right,
and stop arguing.”
» * * ♦ *
Round-up in France
[Very little has come out regarding the official
swoop on the Communists in France, except that 40
Communist Deputies had been arrested. The Man-
chester “Guardian” put the number at 43, while the
London Communist “Daily Worker” (Oct. 12) reported
2000 arrests up to October 1. The same Communist
paper also reported that the Paris Communist h.q. had
been raided, its money and equipment taken and its
building commandeered. It further put the member-
ship of the Communist party in France at 300,000,
“representing a million and a half French people who
have supported it in the elections.” The item here
given is from reports by the Manchester “Guardian”
Paris correspondent.]
The French Communists have embarked upon a
peace move in loyal support of Stalinite —and Hit-
“Die Welt Woche,” Zurich.
STALIN GOES WEST
lerian—policy. They have tried to reconstitute the
party as the French Workers and Peasants’ party and
have sent a letter to M. Herriot, President of the
Chamber, demanding a public session of Parliament
to discuss the problems of peace. The letter is declared
by the Socialist “Populaire” to be a “monument of
indecency.” The paper adds:-
It exalts all that Stalin has done and guarantees
in advance all that he is preparing to do. Nothing
could be more servile. Because he signed a pact with
Hitler Stalin was right. And, for the same reason
that it was the Moscow chief who did it, Stalin was
right to take his part in starting the war, in helping
Hitler to murder Poland, and in taking his share of
the booty, and now because Stalin is the accomplice of
Hitler in the “peace offensive” Stalin is right.
The conservative “Intransigeant,” in a strong
leader condemning the letter, says: “Thus to defend
ourselves against Hitler we must become the accom-
plice of Hitler. This is incredible. It cannot be said
that the Communist deputies do not understand the
folly of their arguments: They are not simply misled.
They are traitors pure and simple who are playing the
enemy’s game.
“It is understandable that Hitler wants peace for
a few months. After having had time to organise
Poland for his purposes and increase his war potential
and precipitate himself upon Rumania he would be
able to offer battle under much more favorable condi-
tions. Stalin is aiming at world revolution after a
world war. The Communist deputies want to lead us
into a double trap.”
The municipalities under the control of Commu-
nist councils have been dissolved in the Seine and Seine-
et-Oise department. The same measure will be taken
in other parts of France. The number of Communist
municipalities was large; in the Seine alone there are
nearly 30.
* * ❖ * *
(Daladier sums them up.)
“These new Jacobins who yesterday had no words
harsh enough nor sufficient insults to besmirch the
Government’s peaceful efforts, who offered to lead
themselves the fight against Hitler —until the Moscow
order came to make an apology for a peace
of treason.”
* * * * *
Ward Price’s View
[This programme, of course, would eventually call
for yet another change of front from what they are
now professing, but no one doubts the Communists
would be equal to it.]
It is the Bolsheviks’ hope to see the nations of
Western Europe fight themselves to a standstill while
conserving their own forces intact, so that they may
ultimately be used to spread Red revolution over an
exhausted Continent. Not 12 months have passed
since Marshal Goring told me that this was certainly
the Russian aim.
Its realisation would suit the Nazi regime even
less than that of any other country. The Soviet forces
have been carrying on a pogrom of landowners, officers
and other “bourgeois” in the parts of Poland that they
occupy. If they once got into Germany, millions of
unsuspected Communists would rise and create a
common cause with them against the Nazi despotism.
The factor that first swung rank-and-file Ger-
mans into the Nazi camp was the dread of Com-
munism. To understand that dread, one needs to
have seen what the Communist peril was in Germany
and how eagerly the pacific mass of the population
rallied to the strong regime that crushed it.
I caught glimpses of it myself in the early years
after the war, and heard much of the outrages that
the German Reds committed. During the Spartacist
rebellion I saw lorryloads of toughs, each with a gun
slung on his shoulder or a spiked club in his hand,
setting out to loot for food the villages and market-
gardens round the big towns. I have known Unter
den Linden as full of barbed wire entanglements as a
front-line sector, and heard machine-guns spluttering
in the streets as part of the grim process of suppressing
German Bolshevism.
In Saxony the Communist leader, Max Holtz,
conducted for weeks a sort of Jacquerie, touring the
province with armed bands and setting fire to country
houses. There is hardly any part of Germany that
did not have its experience of civil war. The night-
mare memory of those days remains.
It may be easy for Hitler to discard his anti-
Bolshevist principles, but what can Nazi-trained
officers, landowners, industrialists, middle classes and
church-people think of a regime which, in repudia-
tion of its own fiercely proclaimed tenets, fraternises
with the powers of evil, welcomes the Red Army into
conquered Poland —where the “liquidation” of the cor-
responding classes in the area under Russian control
is immediately begun—and opens the door for a
greater spread of Bolshevist influence in the direction
of Germany than has taken place since the the Soviet
Government came into existence?
From all the neutral neighbor-States with which
Germans have contact comes the same cry of alarm.
Hitler, with a recklessness that looks like despair, has
loosed the Red beast of prey on Europe. The fear
must be forming in the minds of the German people
that they may be the first to be devoured.
A Commissar Reports Progress.
[So capable of wonders are the “Mighty Soviet’s”
mechanics that cables recently had them converting the
Polish railway gauge to the Soviet size at the rate of
50 miles a day! A somewhat different picture is
presented, from official Soviet sources, in the article
by A. Masloff here condensed from Manchester
“Guardian.”]
Can the Soviet Union supply Germany with
manufactured war material? Some indication of the
answer may be obtained from data drawn from official
Soviet publications—the publications generally made
use of in “demonstrating” the successes of the “plans”
of the Stalinist regime. It is well known that the
means of transport are Russia’s weakest point, but it
is not generally known that, according to Malysheff,
the Commissar for the Construction of Heavy
Machinery, the plan of production has not been kept
to either during 1938 or since.
In regard to locomotive production the Com-
missar finds (1) almost incredible waste of raw ma-
terial and of construction machinery ; (2) entirely in-
adequate quality of turnout, which is technically below
the minimum standard for modern engines. Maly-
sheff states that during the past year 1500 modern
lathes in the principal works remained idle: they
were too modern, and there were no specialist workers
who could use them. The lathes used were worked
only to 44.9 per cent, of capacity ; the automatic and
quasi-automatic lathes were frequently out of action.
Malysheff states that in the “model” Kiroff works
work to the value of 20,000,000 roubles was spoilt
during the production year 1938-39. He finds that
the clerical work connected with orders usually takes
longer than the actual construction of the locomotives.
The scrap metal lying about in the workshops at the
Kiroff works totals, he says, 85,000 tons; the loss
caused by incapacity to make proper use of the equip-
ment he puts at 23,000,000 roubles. “To remove the
scrap from the works yard would require 18 trains.”
He estimates the value of this scrap at 20,000,000
roubles.
The tale is much the same at Kolomna. The
metallurgical workshops spoilt output to the total
value of 900,000 roubles, and 300,000 hours’ work of
the modern lathes was wasted, “equivalent to
16,000,000 roubles, or 80 locomotives of the ‘SU’
type.” Lathes were out of action for 62,000 working
hours —“50 ‘SU’ locomotives,” comments Malysheff.
Sometimes, he reports, the technical standard of
work is ridiculous. At Kolomna “there are 1867
engine-builders at work, and about a thousand of them
are occupied entirely on repairing defective work
from the lathes.” In all the world outside Russia we
might search in vain for a works at which parts are


turned at the lathe and subsequently adjusted by hand
by the engine-builders. This, however, according to
Malysheff, is the regular procedure in the Soviet loco-
motive works.
The constructors and designers at these works
have not yet grasped the possibility of assembling
mouldings ; consequently they build gigantic moulds
in which these are cast whole, with the result that the
percentage of condemned castings is enormous. All
this accounts for the poor or bad quality, as a rule, of
the engines produced by this commissariat. As for
the finish, it is the poorest imaginable.
Rails as a rule are so bad that 20 per cent, are
useless. The commissariat for “black metals” itself
calls its output of rails “third quality.”
These illustrations are sufficient to show that in
Russia, where the roads are unusable, the principal
means of transport correspond neither in quantity
nor in quality to the needs of a modern war and are
incapable of dealing rapidly with large consignments
of goods to a foreign country.
Stalin’s Counterfeiting Swindle.
[Here condensed is another “Saturday Evening
Post” article by W. G. Krivitsky, the former Red Army
general and Soviet foreign agent, throwing further
light on the ingenuous gentry of the Kremlin. The
detail which has had to be omitted in this digest makes
up an extraordinary account of swindling and Communist
scheming, all the dealings in Stalin’s counterfeit money
being there traced out step by step. It can be read in
full in the “Post” of September 30.]
The years 1928-32 were those of Soviet Russia’s
first Five-Year Plan and its heaviest purchases abroad
of machinery and materials for the drive to indus-
trialise Russia, leading to an acute shortage of foreign
exchange in Moscow. This in turn led to what may
be called Stalin’s Five-Year Counterfeiting Plan,
launched with a printing of about $10,000,000 in bogus
United States currency.
In the course of these years the globe was circled
by a trail of spurious $lOO Federal Reserve bank-
notes. They first trickled and later flowed into the
United States Treasury from Shanghai and San Fran-
cisco, from Flouston and New York, from Montreal
and Havana, from Warsaw and Geneva and
Bucharest, from Berlin and Vienna, from Bulgaria and
Y ugoslavia.
Stalin’s counterfeiting experiment betrayed in’full
his primitive nature as a political boss. When faced by
major difficulties in his industrialisation campaign,
Stalin frequently sought escape in methods of com-
mon crime. Acclaimed by his adherents as the great
leader of a great Government, Stalin’s adventure in
counterfeiting shows the real man in the Kremlin.
It was no mere whim of a bureaucratic mind
which invented the counterfeiting enterprise. Dire
economic necessity was its mother.
In the Federal Penitentiary of Lewisburg, Penn-
sylvania, there is a prisoner now serving a 15-year
sentence for victimising several Chicago banks to the
extent of $25,500 in the counterfeit $lOO bills. He is
Dr. Valentine Gregory Burtan, New York physician, a
prominent Communist. But Doctor Burtan took his
punishment stoically ; at no time, during his trial in
1934, did he reveal-the higher-ups in Moscow whose
agent he was.
Three years before the discovery of the transac-
tions in Chicago, a serious failure had occurred in
Berlin, where the private banking firm of Sass and
Martini had been acquired by the Soviet Government
for the express purpose of exchanging in bulk the
spurious $lOO bills. The collapse of that venture and
the flight of its promoter caused an international sen-
sation at the time, but did not prevent Moscow from
eventually renewing its effort to trade in the counter-
feit currency.
The $lOO notes were printed on special stock im-
ported from the United States, and so sure were the
makers that their product would defy detection that
they offered the bogus currency in quantity for ex-
change to leading American financial institutions. The
pivotal agents for the “counterfeiting ring” did not
engage in the illicit business for motives of profit. Both
the man involved in the Berlin scandal and the prisoner
convicted in Chicago were found to be zealots in-
spired by their own brand of idealism.
The various police probes exposed a strange alli-
ance between Stalin’s agents and the criminal under-
world. In the case of the Berlin episode, the Soviet
representatives were linked with American racketeers
operating in Western Europe. In the case of the
Chicago conspiracy, there was a similar pooling of
forces of Soviet agents with known gangsters.
My own introduction to Stalin’s counterfeiting
plan occurred early in 1930, while I was on a special
mission for the Soviet military intelligence in Austria
and Italy. The news of the collapse of the Sass and
Martini Bank in Berlin broke at that time, and I
was given the assignment to liquidate the embarrass-
ing affair as quietly as possible. In the course of this
liquidation I discovered that the counterfeit industry
had been planned in Moscow, that the printing had
been done by the Soviet Government itself.
I wondered how long it would be before the
authorities in their search turned their eyes toward
Moscow, and I feared grave consequences to all of us.
The overshadowing aspect of the case seemed to me
to be the sheer stupidity of the crime. “Surely the
United State's Government will now discover that this
is an affair of Soviet origin,” I thought. The more I
pondered over the affair, the more fantastic it appeared
that the Government of a great State should engage
in such business in this modern age of international
trade and exchange.
A bulletin from Geneva proclaimed on January
23, 1930: “American Treasury officials warned the
Federal Police Department at Berne that $lOO false
notes are circulating in Switzerland.” The following
day, word came from Berlin that “about $40,000 in
forged $lOO bills w,as discovered to date.” On
Japuary 26, the Associated Press carried a dispatch
from Havana, Cuba, stating that police had revealed
the existence of an international counterfeiting ring in
Havana, said to have circulated in a week between
$75,000 and $lOO,OOO in bogus United States Federal
Reserve $lOO bills. On February 6, news came
from Warsaw of the arrest of a Communist leader
found in possession of counterfeit American cur-
rency, and of the discovery of “large quantities of
forged United States $lOO notes in a bank in Lwow
(Lemberg).” It was followed by similar reports from
Antwerp, Belgium. On March 3, large quantities of
the counterfeit currency were encountered in Mexico
City. On March 7, seven smugglers of the false $lOO
bills were seized at Teschen, on the Polish-Czech
frontier.
Two years passed. The counterfeit banknotes
ceased appearing. The press reported nothing more
about the matter. I had good reason to think the
American and European police had dropped the quest.
Moscow had come out unscathed.
In April, 1932, a new warning was suddenly
sounded from Geneva to all European banks to be on
the lookout for the same old $lOO notes. On April
“Haagsche Post,” The Hague.
DYING POLAND.
29, the Berlin “Borsen-Zeitung” reported that counter-
feit $lOO bills had appeared once more in Vienna and
Budapest. In the United States Stalin s Five-Year
Counterfeiting Plan burst like a bombshell in New
York and Chicago in January, 1933. The reverbera-
tions of the explosion were heard in Moscow, where
I was at that time, and caused some uneasiness in the
Kremlin.
[Th e writer here gives a detailed account from the
records of the discoveries, arrests and trials m the
U.S.A., including the trial of Dr. Burtan.]
Although the prosecuting attorneys expressed
their belief that Doctor Burtan had been acting for
Moscow in the adventure, no proof of it was offered,
Stalin came out of his great counterfeiting enterprise
with flying colors.
Doctor Burtan proved a staunch Communist.
He knew how not to talk. He was given a sentence
of 15 years, and fined $5OOO. Doctor Burtan has
kept his secret ever since. I learned that the Soviet
Government allocated a substantial fund for his
defence.
Ireland’s Uneasy Neutrality.
(From an article by the Manchester “Guardian’s”
Irish correspondent.)
Admiration for Hitlerism is at least as rare in
Ireland as in any country of the globe. There is, of
course, sympathy—on top—-for Poles and Czechs, but
to translate sympathy into help seems out of the ques-
tion. It is not that the subjugation of the small
nations of Eastern Europe is felt to be no concern of
Ireland. The trouble is the old distrust of England,
a too powerful neighbor, and the separation of the
Six Counties. The fact that England’s war aims have
not been defined except on the negative and destructive
side makes it easier for the Irish politician to justify
his neutrality, but even if the objectives to be fought
for were clearer and more attractive it would scarcely
be safe for Mr. De Valera onany Irish leader to bring
Ireland into the war.
For there is a tough nucleus (mostly organised in
the 1.R.A.) determined to use England’s difficulty to
secure the abolition of partition. Its members recog-
nise that they would need (what they have not yet
got) the sympathy of the Irish majority. Their aim is
to secure that, and they stand ready to seize any
opportunity to rekindle Ireland’s ancient hostility to
England. They are convinced that De Valera is now
working hand in glove with England, and that they
must therefore get rid of him by weakening his hold
on the confidence of the poorer classes in Ireland. For
this end nothing is so effective as the suggestion that
De Valera has gone over to the English side. There-
fore all Mr. De Valera’s political lieutenants are con-
cerned to avoid any manifestation of excessive friend-
liness, and Mr. De Valera himself has shown his
usual skill in shrouding his real thoughts in ambiguities.
The press, too, thoroughly understanding the situa-
tion, is careful to follow De Valera’s cue. There
never was a time at which the Irish dailies were more
anxious to say nothing or less helpful in reflecting
the real feelings of their readers. They insist on the
wisdom of neutrality and say nothing of the Allies’
need for anti-submarine bases farther west than Ply-
mouth and Belfast. They very properly give much
attention to the economic difficulties resulting in
Ireland from the war. Luckily, these do not seem
likely to be distressingly great, and Mr. De Valera’s
Government is well able to deal with them.
It is true that the farmers are disappointed and
discontented because there is no sign of a return of
the golden age of 1914-18. The English Govern-
ment seems to have imposed an unpleasantly effective
control on import prices, and no fortunes are in
sight. There is also the fact that some unemployment
must be expected if the emigration of able-bodied
men to England is stopped by the
working of the English military sys-
tem and if certain Irish factories
have to close for lack of raw ma-
terial which cannot now be im-
ported. But Ireland has cause to
be grateful for the increased pro-
duction of wheat, sugar and cement
which has resulted from Mr. De
Valera’s policy, and unemployment
can be checked if a resumption of
the house-building policy proves
practicable.
The first nervousness, the
fancy that the Germans might send
aeroplanes to bomb Dublin in spite
of De Valera’s declaration of neu-
trality, has now passed away, and
men begin to see'that it is scarcely
possible to imagine circumstances
in which it would not be folly for
the Germans to annoy Ireland —so
long as England is still undefeated.
Ireland is therefore settling down
to the old comfortable life. Yet no
one is quite at ease or happy. All
feel that here is a great crisis in
human history and we are standing
aside and taking no part. Young
and old alike are restless. The
young (some of them) are slipping
away to find work worth doing
abroad. Others in the I.R.A. are
staying at home and are not likely
to remain for long inactive. No
wonder that Mr. De Valera
preaches that vigilance and dis-
cipline are needed for the success
of the “neutral” policy.
Dutch Viewpoint.
(From an article in the Manchester “Guardian” by
S. F. van Oss, editor of the ‘‘Haagsche Post,” The
Hague.)
Not forgetting that the Germans call it “encircle-
ment,” and the peoples of the autocracies “pluto-
democracy” or imperialism, the average Dutch citizen
simply calls the present problem “Hitlerism.” That
may not be altogether accurate, but it is, or looks,
plain and simple. And as to the attitude of our public
towards “Hitlerism” there cannot be a moment’s doubt.
A thoroughly democratic nation like the Dutch is
bound to be against all totalitarian movements. In
1914-18 sympathies were divided. A considerable part
of this nation felt for Germany. To-day only a small
proportion of our population do so, in spite of many
contacts with the people who live across our eastern
frontier. Ties of blood or personal friendship with
Germans are numerous, and by the accident of
geography Germany is important to us as economic
“hinterland.” The Dutch have no grudge against the
German people, with whom they have never been at
war. The existing feeling confines itself entirely to
the form of regime.
The Dutch carry democracy so far as to say that
Germans, like any other people, must know for them-
selves what sort of government they choose to have.
But if that form, along with its manifestations, runs
counter to our fundamental conceptions or inclina-
tions, and carries in its wake dreadful consequences
for other free peoples, then no one can wonder that
the Dutch feel no sympathy whatever for it.
There is, however, a strong undercurrent of poli-
tical opinion which considerably affects our personal
political feelings. We Dutch believe in minding our
own business. We are not directly concerned in this
deplorable quarrel, however vastly our moral and
spiritual interests may be affected. We abhor war,
that bloody and clumsy way of settling international
matters. Germany has, so far, never done us any
wrong, has, in fact, allowing for the usual xeno-
phobe instincts, been a pretty good neighbor to
Holland —better, in fact, taking a long view of history,
than France and England were in the days of Louis
XIV. or Elizabeth. In spite of our great liking for
the English and the French, we do not forget this.
Neither do we overlook that until after 1870 Germany
lacked both motives and power to be a danger to us.
Moreover, we are a small country, in these days
of ruthless armaments of little military strength. Cer-
tain things conflicting with deep traits in our national
soul might conceivably make us overlook this; in
spite of the smallness of their country the Dutch would
unquestionably fight like lions for fundamentals. They
have proved that before. But the considerations just
enumerated all work together to keep us neutral. And
hence, whatever our feelings may be against one side
or for another, we are, as a State, perfectly neutral.
We are likely to remain so until our neutrality is
violated.


AMAZING NEW ENGLISH DISCOVERY
DEFINITELY BANISHES EVERY FORM OF
RHEUMATISM
ARTHRITIS, SYNOVITIS, LUMBAGO, SCIATICA, NEURITIS
BY REMOVING THE CAUSE
Mr. Douglas Curzon offers Free
Instant Relief and Guaranteed
Freedom from Rheumatism to all
who send the form at the foot of
this announcement.
FT will come as a pleasant surprise
to the thousands of people who
are suffering unnecessarily from the
pain, swelling and stiffness usually
associated with Rheumatism that
the true basic cause of this distressing
ailment has been discovered, and an
entirely new, different, harmless
and remarkably effective treatment
formulated by Mr. Douglas Curzon,
an English chemist, which perma-
nently banishes every form of Rheu-
matism by removing the cause.
Mr. Curzon found, as a result of
careful investigation, that, although
there are many forms of Rheuma-
tism, with differing symptoms, the
fundamental cause is the same, and
now that this important discovery
has been made, Rheumatism, Arth-
ritis, Neuritis, Synovitis, Lumbago,
Sciatica and associated ailments will
soon be a thing of the past.
THE TRUTH ABOUT
RHEUMATISM.
Mr. Curzon states that although
uric acid is present in the body it is
not responsible for Rheumatism;
that the real cause is the presence in
the blood of toxins which cause the
stiffening of the muscles and the
hardening and enlargement of the
joints by becoming localised at cer-
tain parts of the body, and there
producing exactly the same sort of
inflammatory thickening of the
tissues as the results from a boil,
ulcer or any similar localised in-
flamed condition.
The pain is generally increased by
exposure to cold, dampness or wet,
because temperature changes cause
a contraction of the blood vessels,
which in turn gives rise to capillary
congestion. This makes the circula-
tion erratic, resulting in coldness of
the hands and feet, numbness and
a prickling sensation. It is the irri-
tating effect of these toxins on the
nerves or set of nerves and their
distribution that is reponsible for the
shifting pains so familiar to rheuma-
tic sufferers.
“URIC ACID HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE
PAIN, SWELLING AND STIFFNESS ASSOCIATED
WITH RHEUMATISM ” DECLARES DOUGLAS
CURZON.
OFFERS FREE INSTANT RELIEF
AND GUARANTEED FREEDOM FROM RHEUMATISM
TO EVERY READER WHO SENDS FORM BELOW
To remove the cause of Rheuma-
tism, it is necessary to (1) relieve
the pain; (2) eliminate the poisons
from the blood, and (3) to build
up the nervous system.
Mr. Douglas Curzon’s new devel-
opment scientifically combines and
provides these essentials, and by its
speedy, safe and certain action not
only definitely banishes the pain,
swelling and stiffness, but by
ENDING THE RHEUMATIC
TENDENCY assures immunity from
future attacks.
Under the beneficent influence of
this new method swelling subsides,
pain ceases, stiffness disappears, and
Rheumatism, whether in the head,
neck, shoulders, arms, back or legs,
is soon forgotten.
Genuine Free Trial.
Arrangements have been made
with Anglo-Australian Laboratories
of Sydney to make this wonderful
medicinal combination available for
Australian sufferers. Mr. Curzon,
therefore, invites every reader of this
journal who suffers from Rheu-
matism to send the form at the foot
of this announcement and immedi-
ately receive free of charge and
obligation:—
(1) A trial supply of Analgesic Tablets
to give instant relief in every case of
muscular, nerve, or arthritic Rheumatism.
These tablets are guaranteed! to be abso-
lutely harmless, yet remarkably efficacious
in relieving Rheumatic pains, wherever
situated.
(2) A trial supply of Rheumatoxin
Eliminant. This scientific combination
tones up the liver, stomach and digestive
organs. By its direct action on the blood
it quickly and safely reduces swelling and
stiffness.
(3) An interesting Health Handbook
entitled “THE ONLY WAY TO END
RHEUMATISM,” with offer to completely
banish your Rheumatism under a genuine
guarantee of speedy, satisfactory results
or the complete method will cost you
nothing.
If you desire to say good-bye to
distressing and heart-weakening
Rheumatism, with interrupted sleep
and constant suffering, you simply
must not allow past disappointment,
discouragement, prejudice, or lack
of faith to stop you from forthwith
taking the first step on the road to
permanent freedom from Rheuma-
tism.
Send the form now.
TYPICAL REPORTS FROM FORMER SUFFERERS.
“Your treatment in my case has accomplished all you claim for it. I had
Rheumatism in my right elbow with very severe pain. Improvement was
noticed*from the first day in taking your remedy, and now the symptoms
have entirely disappeared. The general health is also improved. I will
recommend the treatment to my friends who suffer from this most painful
malady.”— R.J.R., Woodville, S.A.
d* d* d* d*
“1 am completely cured of the Insular Rheumatism in my thigh and legs,
the twisted toes and enlarged joints of my fingers are gradually becoming
normal, since taking your course, and I have not had a recurrence of
nerve storms where my arm wa3 amputated (1 am a limbless soldier)
which I had suffered since 1917. Your treatment is a wonderful blessing
to all who suffer from Rheumatism in any form, and I intend to recom-
mend your Treatment wherever possible. Please accept my heartfelt
thanks.” Robt. C. S., Guildford, N.S.W.
•I*
“I have now completed your Treatment and am writing to let you know
that I have improved 100%. The results of your treatment have been
amazing. ” — Alf. B. R., Burra, S.A.
* *•> 4*
“The result of the Treatment is very satisfactory. All aches and pains
have gone and feeling very well. lam sure it is the best treatment yet,
and I have recommended it to several others and wish you every success.”
—C.H., Strathfield, Sydney.
"After suffering for ten years from Rheumatoid
Arthritis, not being able to use my hands or even
hold a pen, and the pain in my hip so great that 1
couldn’t walk from one room to another, I am
most grateful for your wonder-
ful treatment, which I con-
sider surpasses all I have heard
of and tried, as it not only
relieves but permanently re-
moves the trouble if given a
fair trial."— Mrs. A.E.D.,
Albert Park, Melbourne.
•h *S* d*
“I must say how very grate-
ful I am for the great benefit
I have obtained from the
Douglas Curzon Treatment. I
feel a different woman and
for the last five weeks I have
done my own washing and
sewing, a thing I haven’t done
for some years. So you may
know how thankful I am.
—Mrs. A.S., Petersham,
Sydney.
'
w
◄
WHERE RHEUMATISM BEGINS
Rheumatic toxins are
first produced in the
deep veins of the legs
and are then carried
by the blood to every
part of the body, re-
sulting in (1) slug-
gish circulation, (2)
congestion, and (3)
pain and swelling.
FREE INSTANT RELIEF
FOR RHEUMATIC SUFFERERS.
Mr. Douglas Curzon,
Anglo-Australian Laboratories,
62 Margaret Street (Box 4242 XX), Sydney.
Please send me the Free Instant Relief supply promised, comprising
Analgesic Tablets and Rheumatoxin Eliminant, together with Health
Handbook, free of charge and obligation.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Please print name and address in Block Letters and enclose^ 2d. in
stamps for return postage.)


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPRUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELIESS THAT DAZZLES!
RACING REVIEW
(Conducted by "PILOT")
Judgment of pace is an essential factor
in the make-up of a first-class jockey,
but some of our leading riders either
were entirely lacking in this respect or
were hampered by instructions at Flem-
ington on Saturday.
Every apprentice is taught that it is
necessary to be within reasonable dis-
tance of the leader when the pace is slow
early in a middle-distance or distance
race. By so doing his mount is not left
stranded when the pace is clapped on
and the race develops into a sprint home.
Fully-fledged jockeys overlooked this car-
dinal point to a pronounced degree in
the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes, and to
a lesser degree in the Hotham Handicap.
Their lapses were inexcusable, for they
adopted “waiting” tactics while Ortelle’s
Star and Catalogue dawdled along in
front, and played right into the hands of
F. de Valle and E. McMenamin, respec-
tive riders of those horses.
De Valle and McMenamin were en-
titled to bouquets for their initiative in
sensing what was going on behind, and
playing up to it; other jockeys were en-
titled to the brickbats “thrown” at them
by disgruntled backers.
Few more farcical weight-for-age races
than the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes have
been seen in Melbourne for years. Ortelle’s
Star ambled along at a steeplechasers’
pace of 55 seconds for the first half-
mile, and 1.20 y for the first six furlongs.
A little later the riders of some of the
other runners awakened to the fact that
they were in a race, and not a trance, but
Ortelle’s Star had gained a break, and,
without ever looking like losing in the
straight, she won easily from Feminist,
Respirator and the odds-on favorite,
Mosaic. The time, 2.9, was seven seconds
outside Manolive’s Flemington and Aus-
tralasian record for a mile and a quarter.
As a Melbourne Cup guide the race was
generally considered useless.
Ortelle’s Star, who is trained by Cecil
Godby for H. H. Krohn, has been a
decidedly useful mare. Her perform-
ances include a win in last year’s Moonee
Valley Cup and thirds in the Melbourne
and Australian Cups, but she had never
previously shown herself equal to weight-
for-age form. Her starting price of 25
to 1 on Saturday was a reasonable reflec-
tion of her chance had the race been
truly run, but apparently this is going to
be a spring of w.f.a. surprises. It has
begun that way, for Mosaic was a 50-to-l
chance when he won the W. S. Cox Plate
at Moonee Valley a week earlier. Backers
are wondering whether the Linlithgow
Stakes, to be run to-morrow (Thursday),
will be another benefit for bookmakers.
Jockey Fred Shean can well ponder
over fortune’s whims. This time last year
he almost scooped the pool in respect of
important races, his wins including the
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups on Buza-
long and Catalogue. He arrived in Mel-
bourne this spring with several good
mounts in view, but a clash with the
stewards resulted in his being stood down
for two months. Suspension has already
proved costly for him, for in the ordinary
course of events he would have ridden
Catalogue in the Hotham Handicap. An-
other Sydney jockey, E. McMenamin,
was substituted on the Maorilander, and,
slowing the field down in the early stages,
he landed Catalogue a winner all the way.
Even allowing that heavy rain towards
the end of the afternoon affected the
track somewhat, Catalogue’s time of
2.38* for the mile and a half reflected
the manner in which McMenamin was
permitted to steal the race. Flemington
record for the distance is Elanage’s 2.29*.
Catalogue is an old marvel. A year
ago, at the age of eight, he could finish
only third in the Hotham Handicap with
121 b. less on his back. Age is treating
him lightly, but, by the same token, his
ability to carry .9.2 and lead throughout
12 furlongs did not say a great deal for
the Cup candidates which finished
behind him on Saturday. As in every
muddling-run race, however, it was pos-
sible to make excuses for most beaten
runners.
Sydney jockeys have learned from ex-
perience that, in the matter of alleged
careless riding, they receive less latitude
in Melbourne than on their home
courses. V.R.C. stewards are determined
to stamp out race interference which, in
their opinion, is avoidable. All jockeys
must observe the “safety-first” slogan,
but, although most leading Sydney riders
have had this fact drummed into them
forcibly at one time or another, almost
every important Melbourne round sees
one or two of their number stood down
for a period. Fred Shean has a com-
panion in misfortune this spring. After
J. O’Sullivan had piloted Pantler into
second place, in the Hotham Handicap
on Saturday, stewards announced that
they had suspended him for one month
for allegedly having caused interference
in the first race of the day, the Wake-
ful Stakes. O’Sullivan was to have ridden
Cooranga in the Melbourne Cup, and A.
Breasley was substituted.
All doubts concerning the best stay-
ing three-year-old of the season were
removed when Reading outstayed High
Caste in the Victoria Derby. Reading
had done likewise in the A.J.C. Derby,
but Victoria Derby betting reflected the
improvement which High Caste was sup-
posed to have made meantime. He
started at 11 to 8, whereas Reading was
an 11-to-2 chance. Reading justified the
confidence of his trainer, Jack Cush,
whose piquant remark “he has been
racing on only three legs, but now he is
using all four,” was published in The
Bulletin last week.
Cush was a happy man after the
Derby, and gave all credit to Darby
Munro for the latter’s handling of his
colt. Munro had planned to steal the
race in the event of the pace being slow
early, and things worked out according
to schedule. He was in front before the
end of two furlongs, gradually increased
the pace, and was not headed subse-
quently to win from High Caste and
Dashing Cavalier. Munro had previously
won the Victoria Derby on Hall Mark
and Nuffield.
E. Bartle did not escape criticism for
his handling of High Caste, some people
being of opinion that he let the colt drop
too far out of his ground early, and made
it up in too much of a hurry between
the six and four furlongs. Bartle did
sool High Caste along between those
points, but his critics apparently did not
notice that he gave him a breather from
the half-mile to the turn. High Caste
had his chance in the straight, and for a
stride or two looked like troubling Read-
ing, but the latter simply outstayed him
and was doing the better of the two right
on the post.
Place-getters in the Derby were all
representatives of Sydney stables, Dash-
ing Cavalier’s forward showing at 33 to 1
being the surprise of the race. Form said
little for his chance, and it appeared a
waste of time and money bringing him
to Melbourne. His Derby third, how-
ever, was worth £5OO, and there might
be more “pickings” before he returns
home. On the other side of the picture
was the poor showing by the £lO,OOO
colt Gold Salute. The latter’s chance
was prejudiced at the start, as he was
standing side-on at barrier rise, but he
showed no dash at all during the race,
rider E. McMenamin stating subse-
quently that he hung badly and was
never travelling kindly. Thus crashed
another of owner Alan Cooper’s tilts at
the Ring. He had backed Gold Salute
for £50,000 to win the Victoria Derby
and Melbourne Cup.
Reading is a splendid advertisement for
his imported sire Marconigram, a noted
sire of stayers, and it is within the bounds
of possibility that another of Marconi-
gram’s sons, Broadcaster, will win the
Derbies next year. Broadcaster won the
Maribyrnong Plate in the style of a pros-
pective stayer, getting a rails run towards
the finish and dashing through to win im-
pressively from Halifax (Christopher
Robin-Bareena) and Goldsmith (Hall
Mark-Trasina). Broadcaster’s form, in-
cidentally, was an improvement on his
effort in a division of the Gwyn Nursery
on Caulfield Cup day. Starting at odds-
on on that occasion, he finished fourth
to Mormon, and was three lengths behind
the second horse, Goldsmith. Good
track work meantime, combined with an
idea that Broadcaster would be better
suited by a straight course, prompted
further heavy support for him on Satur-
day, and from tens his price firmed to
favoritism at 4 to 1.
Owner of Kia-Ora Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), Percy Miller is Australia’s larg-
est breeder of thoroughbreds, but he
took a fancy to Broadcaster (Marconi-
gram-Lady Canberra) as a yearling, and
purchased him for 450 guineas. Satur-
day’s win was worth £lO5O in prize-
money.
Halifax’s ability to start from the out-
side of a field of 17 and finish a close
second in the Maribyrnong Plate might
tend to shatter the general belief that
horses drawn wide in races up the Flem-
ington straight might just as well stay
home for all the chance they have.
Actually, Halifax did not keep a straight
course up the slow side of the track. He
gradually crossed towards the inside, but,
as he necessarily lost some ground in
doing so, he may have been unlucky in
defeat. Halifax, who is trained by T. J.
Hayes for V. J. Plumb, is one of the
most promising youngsters in training.
Form and figures worked out cor-
rectly with Rivette in the Caulfield Cup,
and they did likewise with Manrico in the
Cantala Stakes. Some backers who in-
spected Manrico before the race were
rather perturbed to see his off knee
obviously swollen, but they had no real
reason for concern. Manrico has a “soft”
knee, and, although it causes soreness at
times, it has not troubled him in his races.
He was a “handicapping certainty” with
8.5 in the Cantala, having developed out-
standing form after the publication of
weights, and naturally he was a hot favor-
ite, starting at 5 to 4 on. Streaking to
the front before the end of a furlong, he
was out six or seven lengths at the half-
mile, and, although flat out at the finish,
he still had a length and a quarter to
spare from the French-bred grey Land-
law.
Until comparatively recently Manrico
was regarded as a weak six-furlongs
horse, but his record of eight wins, two
at a mile, from his last 12 starts is ample
testimony of his improvement. His de-
velopment was not brought about by a
change of diet or training methods. Jack
Holt, who trains the gelding for
J. M. Niall, is of the opinion that increas-
ing age has improved his stamina. Man-
rico is a five-years-old by Manfred-
Lucina, and probably he will have an-
other opportunity to improve his record
in the Linlithgow Stakes, a mile weight-
for-age race to be run at Flemington
to-morrow, Thursday.
Trainer R. F. Baldwin was in the
happy position of having two horses
capable of winning the Wakeful Stakes,
a mile race for' three-vear-old fillies.
Border Lass would have been favorite
had she started, and probably would have
won, but her owner, N. Jarvie,
elected to have a cut-in for the Derby.
Snow White, owned by her breeders,
H. G. Raymond and H. B. Ranken,
was left to deputise in the Wake-
ful. Snow White, who is by Gay
Lothario-Heliostar, proved a good sub-
stitute, even though she won only nar-
rowly, but Border Lass was outclassed
in the Derby.
* * * *
Canterbury Park did not get a par-
ticularly good return for the £1368 it
distributed over seven races at Moore-
field on Saturday. The runners were of
ordinary class, and totalled only 57.
Naturally the small fields affected the
totalisator turnover, and the most specu-
lated on any race was £845, while in
the last, with only four runners, £lOO
was not reached. It must be added that
the minimum ticket in the paddock was
10s. against ss. at Canterbury’s own
course. That would naturally make a
difference.
It is probable Vergure will improve,
but a little while ago, when his admirers
became very enthusiastic concerning him,
and mentioned him in connection with
the Oakleigh Plate and Newmarket Han-
dicap, I wrote that it might be as well
to see how he would fare in a suburban
Flying Handicap before jumping at the
conclusion that he was up to the standard
necessary for Australia’s principal sprint
handicaps. His reputation was somewhat
discounted in the Flying Handicap at
Moorefield as, though he had a clear
lead into the straight, he was outstayed
by Grey Derby, who, having his first
run for some time, gave him 41b. and a
start of several lengths from the top of
the straight. Scarcely Oakleigh Plate or
Newmarket form, even though he was
somewhat hampered at the start.
Postmaster was supported, but backers
will not want him again at a short price.
The time for the race was only a quarter-
second faster than June, with 9.9, put up
in the first division of the Highweight
Handicap. Grey Derby carried 8.8 and
Vergure 8.4.
F. W. Hughes has put so much money
into racing that he cannot be begrudged
any wins that come his way. He had
two at Saturday’s meeting, Magic Ring
scoring one and All Agog the other. Tus-
culum did not have the best of runs in
Magic Ring’s race, but even if more
favored in that respect he could not have
beaten the filly, who, costing 550 guineas
as a yearling, has recorded four firsts and
a similar number of seconds lor £361 in
prize-money. Three of her wins were at
provincial meetings, and carried a total
of £9l.
All Agog, though behind Phalaran
entering the straight in the Two-year-old
Stakes, had the race won some distance
from home, and is sure to score again.
He is a half-brother, by Excitement, to
Mettara, who was a little unlucky to
be beaten at Kensington on Wednesday
last. Their dam, Whakatara, is by
Romeo from Saucy Lass, whose half-
brother Gasbag was a good performer
in Maoriland. Sans Ame is not as good
as was believed, and Hammond (Chat-
ham-Haughmond) may be as well worth
following as any of the unplaced division.
June, despite a penalty, had no diffi-
culty in winning the first division of the
Canterbury Highweight Welter, in which
the slowness of the favorite, Rex, in
finding his legs in the early half left
him with too much ground to make up
over the last three furlongs. Überous
came from a long way back to run third,
and Aladdin is coming on again. As
a stayer Samurai is not improving. First
round the turn he got very tired in the
run home.
When Goldspur scored at Ascot re-
cently his win was regarded as somewhat
of a fluke, but two successive wins since
then have proved that idea incorrect.
After setting up a useful lead at one
stage of the first division of the High-
weight Handicap at Canterbury he was
all out to beat Bestop, but the latter,
who is useful, was in receipt of 61b. Rival
Chief was one of the well-beaten lot,
and though he won a mid-week handicap
a few weeks ago he will have to strike
a poor field to add further to his winning
account.
After Six, favorite for the Canterbury
Handicap, made a fast forward move
FOR FLEMINGTON.
(By “SENTRY.”)
THURSDAY.
Byron Moore Stakes: Broad-
caster, 1 ; Mormon, 2 ; Earl Mar-
shal, 3.
Linlithgow Stakes: Manrico, 1 ;
High Caste, 2 ; Pamelus, 3.
Oaks Stakes: Zonda, 1 ; Border
Lass, 2 ; Snow White, 3.
SATURDAY.
Batman Stakes: Gold Salute, 1 ;
Dashing Cavalier, 2 ; Historian, 3.
C. B. Fisher Plate: Mosaic, 1 ;
Reading, 2 ; High Caste, 3.
FOR MOOREFIELD.
(By “PILOT.”)
Brush Hurdle Race: British, 1 ;
Exning, 2 ; Harley, 3.
Juvenile Stakes: Sobersides, 1 ;
Status, 2 ; All Agog, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: The
Kaiser, 1 ; Beaucaire, 2; Magic
Ring, 3.
Carlton Mile: Highborn, 1 ;
Hash, 2 ; High Dividend, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Gold
Spark, 1 ; Enatic, 2 ; Linbul, 3.
Flying Welter Handicap: Flaring,
1 ; Glorious, 2 ; Bestop, 3.


SAVE MONEY
THRIFTY
TO INSTALL
NEW
CHAMPIONS
SMS
mm
m
CHAMPIOIW
Bring SMOOTH MOTORING
If your engine is not pulling
smoothly and evenly be sure
to check the spark plugs. Fouled
and worn spark plugs may be
robbing you of the economy
and pleasure of a smooth-
running engine. Install new
Champions for greatest speed
and power, and for the real
economy that only these su-
perior spark plugs can give.
An Empire Product —made in Windsor, Can.
Mick Simmons’
Exclusive Service to
SHOOTERS
■LIONEL isilillY, famous Rifle and Revolver Shot,
and acknowledged authority on Firearms and
llullistics, is attached to the staff of the Mick
Simmons Sports organisation. Those interested in
the spen t of shooting should avail themselves to the
fullest extent of his expert guidance and advice.
Unrivalled Stocks of
SPORTING RIFLES
é
No. 43—COOEY ACE No. 1,
.22 calibre, bolt action, single
shot, for short, long or long-rifle
Walnut stock; safety feature,
1 7in. barrel. Weight,
3 Jib
£l/7/6
Postage, 2/-; Other States. 3/6.
No. B—STEVENS’ SPRINGFIELD
S.S. RIFLE, MODEL 83, 22-cal.,
bolt action, 24in. round barrel,
gold bead front and ladder rear
sight; weight, about £2/12/6
Postage, 2/-; Other Spates, 3/6.
No. 25— REMINGTON RIFLE,
No. 41A MODEL, bolt action, j
.22 calibre, rim-fire, 27in.
round blued steel barrel;
ladder rear sight; 1 1 £ /
weight, sjib.
Postage, 2/3; Other States, 4/-.
No. 32 BROWNING
“TROMBONE” HAM-
MERLESS REPEATING
RIFLE, 22in. round steel
barrel; handles 22 short,
long or long-rifle cart-
ridges; screw rear and
open front sights;
length overall, 39in.;
weight over- /«
all, 4 Jib.. . . tb/O/b
Carriage Paid.
Famous D.B.
SHOT GUNS
No. 3—HOLLIS’ “THE RELIABLE”
D.8.8.L. Gun, 12G., top lever bar
action, 32in. steel barrels, both choke,
rebounding locks, crossbolt, snap fore-
and, half-pistol grip, walnut £1 C /I C /
stock xlb/10/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 27—8.5. A. D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS
SHOT GUN, Wildfowling Model, 12G.,
30in. barrels, both choke; nitro-
proof automatic safety chambered for
3in. cartridges; weight, £Ol /I nf
31b. XZI/IU/-
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 —FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
30in. steel barrels, both choke, top lever,
walnut stock, pistol grip, 1/11/
nitro proof; weight, about 71b. Xll /1 1 / *
Carriage Paid.
No. 14 A—FABRIQUE NATIONALE
D.8.8.L. HAMMERLESS GUN, 12G.,
similar to No. 14, but very high-grade,
with ejector; weight, £lO/10/
about 7lb XL3/13/-
Carriage Paid.
Write for Mick Simmons’ Comprehensive
Shooting Catalogue. Free and Post Free!
SHOOTING REPAIRS
Every repair, however small, handled by a
skilled craftsman. Lowest charges .
MICK SIMMONS
LTD.,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
And all Branches.
approaching the bend, but, though it
looked as if he might come on and win,
he had no chance in the run home against
Kurrawid, who was second to Aussie B.
at the home turn. There was little be-
tween Buzzal, Tapestry and Tony for
third, and, though Tapestry is now well
up in years, another win or two for him
is possible. Salazar was not suggestive
of danger at any part, and now has a
weight that is likely to keep him quiet
for some time, even in ordinary com-
pany.
Masterpiece is back to his best form.
Coming to the turn in the Welter Handi-
cap he fairly flew past Pen Name and
Linklet. Highborn made a game effort
to make a race of it in the straight but
had no chance, though he did well
enough to indicate that he is again
coming on. The demonstration against
the favorite, Pen Name, was amusing,
if nothing else. In a field of four the
jockey on a favorite, even if it were
not doing its best —the stewards said
Pen Name was —would certainly try to
avoid nearly a 20-lengths beating. How-
ever, one does not always look for
reasonableness on the part of those who
have backed a beaten hot favorite.
* * * *
Result of the Q.T.C. Derby on Satur-
day gave many Brisbane punters a shock.
Lord Buzzard, a 10-to-9 favorite, did not
even get a place, the Spearfelt colts
Spearace and Spear Vale having the
finish to themselves. The former won,
but there was only a head in it. Spear
Vale, who is a brother to Spear Chief,
and is still a maiden, is engaged in the
A.J.C. St. Leger, but the idea of tackling
Reading may not appeal to W. A. Tucker,
who brought Spear Vale for 750gns. as a
yearling. The time for the Derby was
2.32, which was only a half-second out-
side the record for the race.
* * * *
Beaulivre continues on his winning
way in Maoriland, and his runaway win
with 8.10 in 1.11 in the Stewards’ Handi-
cap at Riccarton (Christchurch) on Satur-
day was a particularly good performance.
As he is bound to get a lot of weight in
handicaps in his own land, the chances
are he will be given an opportunity of
distinguishing himself in Australia in the
autumn. He is brilliant enough to prove
a worthy opponent for Ajax in such mile
races as the C. M. Lloyd Stakes at Flem-
ington and All-Aged Plate at Randwick.
* * * *
The New Zealand Cup winner Yours
Truly adds to Siegfried’s stayers, and his
success, in conjunction with that of Beau-
livre, would give Maoriland’s numerous
double-layers a bad time. Siegfried ran
the two miles in the Cup in 3.22 2-5. The
record for the race is Palantua’s 3.22 1-5.
Last season, when a three-year-old, Yours
Truly’s wins included the Champion
Hack Cup, of £315 and a gold cup, at
Wellington, and as the distance was 11
furlongs that effort indicated he was likely
to prove a stayer. Royal Chief was one
of the most popular fancies for the Cup,
but 9.6 in such a fast-run race proved
too much for him. He did well to get
fourth.
* * * *
P. Riddle has not recently been in
luck’s way, nor has his patron, P. Miller,
and in Sydney gratification was generally
expressed when Broadcaster won the
Maribyrnong Plate. Riddle could not
understand the colt’s failure to do better
at his previous start in Melbourne, and
last week advised some Sydney friends
not to let that failure count against him,
as he had done particularly well since.
It is not often that a Sydney horse is
at a long price here for a race in Mel-
bourne, but at Moorefield on Saturday
there was plenty 10 to I—even1 —even longer—
on offer against Broadcaster. At Fleming-
ton he was so strongly supported that he
shortened from tens to fours.
Although he won he evidently had his
work cut out to beat Halifax, who started
from the extreme outside, a position that
is generally regarded as disposing of
any horse’s chance down the straight at
Flemington. Broadcaster, who was a
450gns. yearling, is by Marconigram
from Lady Canberra (Claro-Buckwheat),
and therefore half-brother to Mohican.
Later he may get a distance, as his
pedigree on the maternal side includes
stayers as well as sprinters. Halifax, who
was bred at Kia-Ora by Broadcaster’s
owner, was sold for 400gns., and is by
Christopher Robin from Bareena, by
Woorak from Queen Battery, sister to
that good horse Artilleryman. Gold-
smith (Hall Mark-Trasina) was also bred
in N.S.W., and C. B. Kellow gave 600gns.
for him.
* * sit *
Mosaic, Reading, Feminist, Maikai,
Rivette, Ortelle’s Star and L’Aiglon are
among the horses in the C. B. Fisher
Plate on Saturday, but how many of
that lot will run may depend greatly
upon the extent to which they are affected
by the Melbourne Cup. High Caste is
engaged, and, with 7.9, he must be
counted among the possibilities, despite
his Derby defeat. Two years ago The
Trump, consequent on his success in
the L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes and Mel-
bourne Cup, was reckoned a certainty
for the C. B. Fisher Plate. He was
favorite at 10 to 9, but was last in a
field of five, the 10-to-l chance Black
Mac winning from Sarcherie, who was
third in that year’s Melbourne Cup.
Last year Ajax, at 6 to 1 on, comfort-
ably defeated Royal Chief, the other
runners being Aitchengee and Allunga,
whose chances were truly represented
by their starting price of 33 to 1.
H* H* H* H*
Sydney winners at last year’s Mel-
bourne Cup meeting were Early Bird (2),
St. Constant, Spear Chief, Adios, El
Senorita and Bourbon. Prior to last
Saturday Sydney horses had not opened
the Cup meeting with wins in the Mari-
byrnong Plate and Derby since Bellambi
and Furious were respectively successful
in 1921. Since then, omitting those of
Saturday, the Derby has been won by
N.S.W. representatives in Rampion,
Phar Lap, Balloon King, Johnnie Jason,
Theo and Talking, and the Maribyrnong
by Rampion, Pasha and Fidelity.
H= * * *
The track was on the dead side at
Flemington on Saturday, but though the
pace in the Derby was easy for the
first half-mile, the race was run in 2.33.
While that was a second and three-
quarters slower than Phar Lap and Hall
Mark did in their respective years, the
Victoria Derby record was 2.33 - by
Frances Tressidy until Manfred ran
2.31| two years later. Theo’s 2.35| is
the slowest in the last 19 years. When
Nuffield won last year the time was 2.34 J.
In the way of big things Melbourne
has given J. T. Cush a better return than
Sydney, his wins including a Caulfield
Cup, Victoria Derby and half a Toorak
Handicap. A strong point in Cush’s
make-up is his geniality. It has never
deserted him even when things have not
been running his way. He takes a turn
of bad luck as part of the game, and,
unlike some trainers when they strike
their patch of “outs,” does not growl
about allegedly shocking treatment by
handicappers, bad rides by jockeys, in-
terference in races, etc. Consequently
he gets much more joy out of life than
individuals who invariably have a griev-
ance of some kind.
* * * *
J. T. Cush was as correct in his antici-
pation of the Victoria Derby result as
A. E. Cooper was astray in his. In the
A.J.C. Derby Reading outstayed High
Caste after the latter, for a few strides,
appeared to have his measure. Reading
was the winner of the Victoria Derby all
down the straight, coming home too
strongly for High Caste. Gold Salute lost
ground at the start, but his subsequent
running did not suggest it made much dif-
ference. Although £lO,OOO was reported
to have been Gold Salute’s price, that
possibly included contingencies. It might
be safe to say, though, that collectively
Talking, Mala and Gold Salute cost
Cooper over £32,000. The return given
by Talking and Mala was small by com-
parison with what was paid for them,
and unless a big betting coup can be
brought off with Gold Salute in a handi-
cap his prospects of giving his owner a
deserved return for his pluck are not
bright. On Derby running he certainly
falls short of first-class three-year-old
form.
* * * *
Reading gave D. Munro his third Vic-
toria Derby win, and Broadcaster was
also his third Maribyrnong Plate winner.
The King’s Cup, Caulfield Guineas,
V. Oaks, four A.J.C. Derbies, Gim-
crack Stakes, two A.J.C. Sires’ Produce
Stakes, Carrington Stakes, Tattersall’s
Cup, A.J.C. Champagne Stakes and a
Melbourne Cup (Peter Pan) are among
the big races credited Munro. I am writ-
ing before the decision of this year’s
Melbourne Cup. If Munro should ever
go to England there is one thing in which
jockeys in that country will not leave
him behind —vigor. Over the last 50
years it would be difficult for me to recall
a more vigorous horseman. The late
W. H. Smith was remarkable in that re-
spect for a lightweight. He made terrific
use of the whip. It was not unusual for
him to ply it from the straight entrance
to the winning post at Randwick and
Flemington.
* * *
On Saturday week there will again be
racing at Randwick, and, with the prize-
money for the day £2OOO, it will be inter-
esting to note how owners respond. In
the two-year-old race, the Hoxton Park
Juvenile Stakes, there are penalties up
to 141 b., the winner of any race carry-
ing 71b. extra. This will give a chance
to those youngsters that have run into
minor places, and even at this stage it
would not be difficult to select a couple
likely to head the quotations. Last year
the corresponding race was run in divi-
sions at Warwick Farm, the respective
winners being Bonny Loch and Sun Call.
* * * *
There was seemingly less money for
tote betting at the recent A.J.C. spring
meeting than a year ago, though some of
the fields were not conducive to specula-
tion. The decrease was a little over
£18,500, and there was also a falling-off
at City Tatt.’s meeting, though insuffi-
cient to count. The Warwick Farm meet-
ing held at Randwick put the figures
ahead of those for the same period the
corresponding year, and so far this
season the Randwick turnover is £283,383
55., made up as follows:
Tattersall’s meeting—one day .. £35,722 15 0
A.J.C. meeting—four days .. 181,057 10 0
City Tatt.’s meeting—one day .. 38,255 15 0
Warwick Farm (held at Rand-
wick) —one day .. . . 28,347 5 0
Total £283,383 5 0
Figures for the six days of last season
up to the commencement of November
were:
1938.
Tatt.’s meeting—one day .. £32,400 15 0
A.J.C. spring meeting—four days 199,571 0 0
City Tatt.’s meeting —one day .. 38,081 10 0
Total £270,053 5 0
For the six days in the spring of 1937
the total was £223,973 15s.
>R * * *
A. W. Mcßeath was recently appointed
secretary to the New Zealand Racing
Conference. He acted as secretary after
the death a few months ago of H. R.
Sellars.
* * * *
Breeder R. C. Allen has lost another
of his stallions. El Cacique died recently,
and French-bred Rionscup (Teddy-Prim-
rose Lane) broke a leg at Wambo a


"TMCF ffip worA,
at aJbouf a Tf//#D ffip cost/'
Say Dring Bros. & Allen of Carnamah, West Australia
\
........
m
m ' m
it:
IlllilllS
mmm
mm
jHH
XC<
m
OUR ‘Caterpillar’ D 4, driven with reins and pulling two 10 ft. Harvesters,
operates at a fuel cost of just over 2%d. per acre. It covers 4 acres to the
gallon on fuel costing 10%d. per gallon. In twelve months it has cultivated 1,900
acres with Sundercut and scrub plough cutting 14 ft.; drilled 900 acres with 2
Disc Drills width 28 ft.; harrowed 420 acres; fallowed 1,290 acres; harvested
1,400 acres with two 10 ft. harvesters total 5,910 acres. With our ‘Caterpillar’
Tractor we do twice the work at about one third the cost.
“We have used ‘ Caterpillar ’ Tractors for 10 years and would not consider any
other tractor.”
You, too, will find that in any agricultural job the “Caterpillar” Diesel Tractor
will cover greater acreage at a fraction of the cost.
CATERPILLAR
Reg. U.S. Pat. Off.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS
DISTRIBUTORS:
South Australia:
The S.A. Tractor Company
531-239 Flinders St Adelaide
West Australia:
Wigmore's Limited
613 Wellington St., Perth
ê
Victoria & Tasmania:
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd.
521-523 Collins St., Melbourne
w
Mail this
coupon to-day l
Address to your nearest State Distributor as above.
Please send me, without obligation, literature showing how I can cut my
costs with a "Caterpillar" Diesel.
NAME
ADDRESS
B 3.39
fortnight ago, and was destroyed. Rions-
cup won races in Sydney, and, though he
was not greatly patronised at the stud,
had a high percentage of winners. His
owner states that up to the conclusion
of last season Rionscup’s runners totalled
37, and of these 28 were winners. Rions-
cup was imported in 1927.
* * * *
At racing it is always possible to fly a
little too high, and I have often heard
trainers growl about owners whose de-
sire to win at Randwick has spoilt their
chances of paying expenses at suburban
meetings. If a horse runs a fair race at
Randwick, even without winning, it is
bound to go up in the weights, and the
books are sure to keep it on their side
to some extent. Well placed at suburban
meetings a win would be unlikely to cause
any undue booming, and success at
Randwick might be possible at a fair
price.
-f *
Old Rowley, after doing two months’
road work, is again one of J. Scully’s
workers at Randwick. He is moving in
a fashion that suggests his year’s retire-
ment gives him a reasonable chance of
standing another preparation, though
once a horse has to be put aside owing to
leg trouble no certainty attaches to how
he will fare when he is given some really
fast work. Old Rowley made rapid ad-
vance as a five-year-old. Unplaced with
7.7 in the 1937 Moonee Valley Cup, he
won the Cumberland Plate and A.J.C.
Plate at weight-for-age at Randwick six
months later, and in each defeated
Allunga, who a few months earlier was
fourth in the Melbourne Cup with 9.1.
* * * *
It was announced in English papers at
the commencement of September that the
Caesarewitch was among the important
races abandoned, but later it was decided
it should be run, though at a later date
and at a shorter distance than in previ-
ous years. It took place last week, and
the heavily-backed Cantatrice 11. (7 to 2),
who carried 7.3, won from 34 other
starters. Cheerful Star and Black Star,
20-to-l chances, were respectively second
and third. Cantatrice 11. is owned by
Sir A. Butt and trained by Frank Butters.
* * * #
A schooling accident at Flemington
last week caused Bridge of Mar, a world’s
record-holder over hurdles, to be de-
stroyed. He was being schooled for
steeplechasing, and broke a bone in his
leg. In November, 1937, Bridge of Mar
(11.4) won a two-miles hurdle race at
Flemington in 3.34|. At one period
that would have been considered good
on the flat. The first dozen Sydney Cups
were run in slower time.
* h= * *
The absence in Melbourne at this time
of the year of most of Sydney’s leading
jockeys gives the minor lights opportuni-
ties. In the past a few brought them-
selves sufficiently into notice to assure
their services being in demand for the
next few months. Some continued to go
ahead, but others, spoilt to some extent
by newspaper boosting, developed ex-
aggerated ideas as to their ability and
were quickly dropped by owners and
trainers.
* * * *
Richest two-year-old race.in the world
is the Futurity, run at Belmont Park
(New York). It took place on the seventh
of last month, and first money was of
the net value of £A14,427, second £1450,
third £B5O and fourth £250, making a
total of £16,977, of which £A6250 was
added money. There were seven starters,
and the winner was the 2-to-l-on favorite
Bimelech, raced by his veteran breeder,
Col. E. R. Bradley, now in his late
seventies.
Bimelech, who was penalised 71b. and
carried 9st., ran the six and a half fur-
longs in 1.16 4-5. Attended by a nurse,
Col. Bradley saw the race, which he won
for the first time. It has always been his
ambition to win the Futurity, but this
was his first success in it, though he has
had four Kentucky Derby winners. It
was Bimelech’s fifth successive win, his
earnings totalling £A25,465. So far a
winner of the Futurity has not been suc-
cessful in the Kentucky Derby, but it
is certain Bimelech will be the winter
favorite for the latter. There certainly is
money in owning a good two- or three-
year-old in America. Shortly before the
latest papers to hand left America three-
year-old Challendon won another race,
making his earnings this year £A41,000.
* H= # sjs
Kentucky Derby winner Johnstown has
finished racing. Early this season he
was proclaimed one of the greatest three-
year-olds ever seen in America, but a
couple of defeats caused modification of
that opinion. Then things did not go
altogether right with him in his train-
ing, and though he was expected to run
in the Lawrence Realisation, 1 mile 5 fur-
longs, at Belmont Park (New York) on
Sept. 30, he was scratched because the
track was muddy. In withdrawing him,
William Woodward said he was never to
race again. During his career, Johnstown
ran in 21 races for 14 wins, three seconds
and a little over £A42,300.
* * * *
No matter what may be said or written
to the contrary, there are times of the
year when even liberal prize-money by
Sydney clubs would not attract horses of
class. After spring racing at Randwick
some horses are rested, while others that
have reasonable chances of success in
good company are sent to Melbourne.
There, apart from the principal races,
prize-money is much greater than it
would be possible for Sydney suburban
clubs to distribute with any reasonable
chance of making some profit, and they
could scarcely be expected to be so
liberal as to make loss certain.
* * * *
English trainer Frank Hartigan has a
great record in respect of winners and
prize-money. His first year as a trainer
was 1905, and he had only one winner,
that being a jumper. Two years later
he had 32 wins under Jockey Club
rules, and 78 under National Hunt
rules. After 34 years his flat-race
wins total 1215, and those at jumping
meetings 775. Under Jockey Club rules
horses trained by Hartigan have won
£341,215, and it is reckoned that, with
the addition of National Hunt win-
nings, his total is over £500,000. Capt.
C. Boyd-Rochfort, another of England’s
leading trainers, had his first winner in
1923, the value of the race being £l6B.
When the war temporarily stopped rac-
ing at the beginning of September horses
in his care had won slightly less than
£430,000 in first money, and £50,000 for
places. Nearly half a million in a little
over sixteen years is decidedly good
going.
* * * *
It seems a strange position for Eng-
lish sporting papers and bookmakers to
be greatly dependent upon Irish racing
for business. But in the middle of
September the London sporting papers
were publishing all Irish programmes
and results, and some prominent book-
makers, in advertising they were betting
on them, announced their willingness to
accept as low as one shilling. Some
Randwick men who treat even 10s. bets
somewhat scornfully should get together
and promote a fund for indigent Eng-
lish bookmakers. Truly shocking that
they should be forced into the position
of taking “bob” bets.
* * * *
Facts to the contrary, many admirers
of old-time champions maintain they
could have galloped just as fast as to-day’s
best if it had been asked of them. “Rid-
ing tactics are different and tracks are
better” is invariably put forward to
uphold their contention. Carbine was
undeniably a great horse, but even he
had never to show the pace now usually
necessary to win weight-for-age races or
handicaps. He might have been able to,
but that can be debated.
In the days of flag-starting, a long
delay was not unusual because of the
desire of riders to get a break, and, if
any did so, the advantage was not nulli-
fied by a jockey easing his mount.
Despite that, times recorded in six-fur-
long or mile races were slow by com-
parison with to-day. Tracks have im-
proved, though not to the extent of
accounting for the difference in time.
For that matter, there are old-time
trainers who hold that Randwick is no
better now than in the days of caretaker
Bill Woodburn, to whom a tuft of
Parramatta grass was an eyesore and
something to be immediately removed.
Furthermore, the “Tod Sloan” style of
horsemanship was in full swing when
Apologue won the Melbourne Cup of 1907
in 3.27y5ec., equalling the record for the
race. It is now 3.21}. Even as recently
as 1914 the record was Kingsburgh’s 3.26.
The horses of between 40 and 50 years
ago may have been tougher all round
and more dependable than those of the
present, but those who press the claims
of those of the last ten years have figures
on their side, and on the training track
and in races time counts.
* * * *
Up to the time the war halted racing
in England on September 4, G. Richards
had ridden in 659 races, and won 150.
Those nearest him were: W. Nevett, 457
mounts, 68 wins; M. Beary, 532 mounts,
58 wins ; and E. Smith, 568 mounts, 55
wins. After visiting England last year
some Sydneyites expressed opinions ad-
verse to Richards’s horsemanship. Well,
if Richards is “just a rider,” what about
the remainder of England’s best? Results,
however, put Richards in the light of a
high-class jockey.
Admittedly Richards rides a number
of “certainties,” but, like all other


INVLXCIBLI'
since
1906.
o
INVINCIBLE Marine Motors
18 Improved 1939 Models: 3 to 160 Horsepower. 1,2, 4,
6, 8 and l'J cylinder sizes: all 4-cycle types. Prompt
Deliveries: 300 Engines always in stock. Five Years'
Guarantee. All Spares Available.
Write for Illustrated Catalogues To-day.
Thousands of Invincible Marine Engines are in satisfac-
tory dally use all over the world, many of them tor over
30 years. Invincible Marine Engines hold a record for
Economy, Durability and Reliability; they are, size for
size and quality for quality, the lowest-priced Engines on
the world’s market to-day.
Before you decide on a new Engine for your Boat, investi-
gate the “Invincible”; you will never regret having
selected one.
INVINCIBLE MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
53 North George St., Sydney; and at Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Fftiihli-ljerl w I'm
j/jM A lill
Changed conditions may alter a man’s whole outlook on
life, yet in one essential his ideas remain firmly fixed; he
never underestimates the importance of that clean, freshly-
shaved look. That’s why most men will still shave with
Gillette —the world’s fastest, most satisfactory shaving
system and, in the long run, the most economical.
“POCKET EDITION” SET
No. 44. Comprises a Gillette razor,
three Blue Gillette blades in plated
sheath, the whole contained in colour-
ful leatherette-covered metal case, of
the handy pocket edition type.
Price .... 4/6
GILLETTE SETS 1/9 TO 45/-
• BLUE GILLETTE BLADES
5 FOR 1/6 • STAINLESS
GILLETTE BLADES 5 FOR 2/-
O'*
Managing Agents ;
PHIPSON & COMPANY (PTY) LTD., 181 Clarence Street, Sydney
jockeys, he has his off days, and occa-
sionally gives his followers a bad time.
At Brighton, a few days prior to the war
temporarily putting an end to racing in
England, he had a particularly unlucky
afternoon. In his first race his mount,
Burytown, a 9-to-4 favorite, ran second,
but there was worse to come. He was
then beaten on favorites that respectively
started at 7 to 4 on, 4 to 1 on and 11
to 4 on, each getting second. A flat stake
of £1 on each of Richards’s mounts from
the commencement of the season entailed
a loss of a little over £6l.
» * * *
It was reckoned in England that the
abandonment of the St. Leger meeting
meant a loss to ratepayers and trades-
people of Doncaster of £500,000. The
meeting is run by a race committee of
the Doncaster Corporation, and the
revenue yielded to the rates is, as a rule,
very large. This year that is lost to the
ratepayers, and they will have more to
pay themselves. Then, in the way of
wages, there was a tremendous loss to
people employed in various capacities at
the meeting.
The yearling sales at Doncaster, which
might have produced a turnover of nearly
a quarter of a million, were indefinitely
postponed. The non-running of the St.
Leger cost owners £12,395 in prize-
money. Of that amount £10,435 15s.
(inclusive of £5OO breeder’s premium)
would have gone to first, £1239 10s. to
second and £619 15s. to third. The fact
of the added money being only £4OOO
shows the extent to which owners con-
tribute to English classic races in the
way of forfeits and sweepstakes.
* * * *
Grey racehorses are comparatively few
in Australia, but they are numerous in
England. At Manchester on Sept. 1 four
of the six winners during the afternoon
were of that color, their respective sires
being Tetratema (2), Fairway and Trim-
don. Three of the winners were prepared
by G. Lambton, so he is a trainer with-
out prejudice against greys.
* * * *
It is often said present-day horses are
not nearly as hardy as those of an earlier
period. It may be so in most cases, but
there are always exceptions. In Sydney
these include many horses that do most of
their racing at mid-week meetings. Some
Boy, who has been racing since 1933, and
is now 10 years old, started 24 times last
season, and over 20 times the previous
one. In winning at Kensington last week
he got within a quarter-second of the
track record for five and a half furlongs.
Some Boy is not a very robust-looking
customer, but there is no doubt as to his
hardiness.
* * * *
Lord Rosebery purposed keeping Blue
Peter in training with a view to com-
peting for the next Ascot Gold Cup.
However, uncertainty as to what the com-
ing year would bring forth has caused
him to change his plans, and English
papers announce that the Derby winner
is to commence at the stud during the
coming season. It is anticipated that his
fee will, at least, be 500 guineas. He
won £31,964 stg., and only for the war
intervening he might, between this season
and next, have reached the English record
of £57,455, held by Isinglass.
* * * *
In response to King Leopold’s broad-
cast appeal for Belgium to carry on its
normal activities, the racecourse man-
agements asked the Belgian lockey Club
to continue race meetings. It was agreed
that the profits from the first “crisis”
meeting of each club should be devoted
to the special fund for supplying comforts
for the soldiers called up for the Belgian
Defence Force.
W * *
At the commencement of the war Lord
Rosebery was the most successful owner
and breeder in England with £37,832 for
the former, and £37,125 for the other.
J. Jarvis led the trainers in stakes, his
total being £54,446. He had 15 winners
of 24 races. In number of wins, F.
Templeman was on top with 46 by 20
different horses. Fairway was an easy
first among the sires, his record being
19 winners of 33 races, and £53.318 in
Stakes. Hyperion was next, with £35,440.
Nineteenth Hole
By JIM FERRIER.
(Open and Amateur Champion of Australia.)
Championships are won on and around
the greens. With so many good players
the equal of one another on tee and fair-
way it is the short game that counts most
when a stroke one way or the other may
decide a match. Following on last week’s
article on putting, I propose this time to
discuss chip-shots, which are such vital
stroke-savers.
For many years I have considered chip-
ping an art, for this simple-looking part
of the game contains a great deal more
than meets the eye. While touch plays
an important part, there is much to be
learnt in the selection of the right club
to use. In my bag of 14 clubs there is a
special chipper; I may use four of the
other clubs also in certain circumstances.
Modern golf-course architecture calls for
a wide variety of chip-shots when a ball
has missed the green.
While one needs to have experience
to handle these various shots, a few points
kept in one’s mind will assist greatly
towards improved chipping. As in putt-
ing, relaxation plays an important part.
Any tautness in either the body or
arms spoils a smooth stroke. For
these shots I use the same grip as
I do in putting; that is, with both
vees made by the thumbs and forefingers
pointing down the shaft. This gives a re-
laxed grip and a feeling of freedom with
the hands and wrists.
For the stance, I usually play the ball
midway between the feet, as there is a
slight downward hit in the swing. For
the majority of chips I use the chipper,
a short-shafted club with the loft of about
a No. 4 iron. This club is ideal for the
straightforward chips which don’t have to
carry over any obstacles, as it turns the
stroke into a big putt, with added top-
spin on the ball. By concentrating upon
keeping the blade of the club fairly close
to the ground, both going back and com-
ing through, the ball is struck more accu-
rately and possesses a maximum of top-
spin.
*•••♦•
Walter Hagen was regarded as the
world’s best chipper in his heyday, owing
to his uncanny accuracy and selection of
the correct type of club to suit the parti-
cular shot. There is a real “kick” to be
gained by consistently getting down in
two shots from 50 yards or so from the
flag. In stroke play the deadly approach
will often get birdies, while in match
play there is nothing more disconcerting
than to see an opponent frequently get-
ting his halves in this manner
When called upon to loft the ball over
bunkers, rough or mounds a more lofted
club is necessary. Although the ball has
only to be raised a couple of feet off the
ground for a short distance I use the No.
7 and No. 8 irons frequently for a chip
into the hole. The pace of the green
for these chips needs careful study. One
has to note the condition of the green
and the run to the hole, as the grain of
the grass and similar minute points have
to be considered. Sometimes on wet days,
when greens are saturated, a pitch rather
than a chip is a wiser shot. But it is these
problems that make the game so fascinat-
ing.
In using the more lofted irons I slightly
close the face of the club, regulating its
closure by the height the ball is to be
lofted. By doing this added control is
assured, and the ball runs evenly after
finding the green. When in heavy grass
the No. 8 iron can be used to play some
handy chips with. Its weight and loft
can make a chip-shot much easier to play
than attempting to hack the ball up into
the air.
In playing all chips it is a sound policy
to keep one’s wrists fairly firm. This
stops any floppiness creeping into the
shot. A crisp, clean chip is by far the
safer shot. With a restricted backswing
the club should be brought down to the
ball, striking it and. taking a tiny divot.
There is little or no body movement, but
as in all shots it is advisable to feel com-
fortable so as to make the execution as
natural as possible. The shot must be
played deliberately, not hurried or jerked.
When a player understands the funda-
mentals of chipping there is nothing
better than to take a dozen balls and
spend half an hour round the practice
green. It is by playing these shots over
and over again that one learns how to
master them. Also, by using other clubs
and chipping over the corner of a bunker
or some rough, any jgolfer can become
reasonably accurate and save many
strokes. Practice is needed in all golf
strokes, and in chipping it can make
poor chippers improve rapidly.
#■* * *
“D.A.”: The fine point as to how far
a golfer might be expected to hit with a
No. 3 wood decided an action for dam-
ages in a Melbourne court last week. A
woman claimed that she was putting out
the ninth hole on the Brighton municipal
links when she was knocked unconscious
by a ball hit by a male golfer and
suffered injuries for which she claimed
£249 damages. The defendant said
he played “a phenomenally good shot,”
and hadn’t expected the ball to travel
so far. The Judge found that he had been
negligent in driving with a No. 3 wood
when within 200 yards of the green and
awarded £lOO.
Von Nida was beaten, 5 and 4, by Billy
Bolger in the N.S.W. Professional Cham-
pionship. Bolger never played better,
as witness his rounds of 69 and 68 on a
course like Concord.
M.Q. and Rafferty
Stormy Stoush
A Golden Gloves tournament —parti-
cipants to be paid at space rates, ultimate
winner in each division to get a gold
glove to put on the mantelpiece or use
as a doorstop ; restricted to Darcys under
21 who’d never been over more than six
rounds —was launched at Sydney Arena
last Thursday night, and so was a
thunderstorm.
Nobody got into the ring who looked
like donning Les’s mantle, but, thanks to
the setting and the assistance from out-
side, the general effect was a striking suc-
cess.
The Arena’s a part-roofed-over board-
cycle-track ; a vast place inside, gaunt
and cavernous with sparse lighting;
rafters holding up the high tin roof like
the ribs of a prehistoric nightmare. The
canvas square white under arclights
down in the mid-gloom; huddled on rows
of chairs drawn up close to the edge of
light the few hundred raucous devotees,
looking more like a couple of dozen in
that spacious hollow. In the ring the


stripped bodies of the fighters in trunks
slugging into each other ; the young ref.
in white shirt, bow tie, black trousers and
pumps. Outside, above and all around
hell gone mad, bombarding and tearing
at the tin roof, sending blue lightning in
through the roofless end and spaces round
the sides; thunderclaps threatening to
split the place open ; rain dinning down
on the roof; a maniac wind shrieking in
and howling round the cavern, driving
the rain with it, making the scrappers’
name-boards above the corners do a
hangman’s dance at the end of their
ropes.
There were 10 fights, and hell outside,
and some of it inside, accompanied the
lot of them. One of the scrappers got
into the ring in trunks so short that they
could have been regarded as a collar.
After three rounds of it, an attendant
came to the corner and shouted some-
thing in a shocked whisper about there
being ladies present. What with innova-
tions of that sort and the elemental ac-
companiments, it was appropriate enough
that one of the best performances was
put up by a rugged little bloke by the
name of Rash. For his other handle he’d
pinched the name they give anti-aircraft
guns, Archie. Also, Billy Cook, Len
Rowley, Fred Manuel, Jack Ballan and
Dick Sheppard each put up a good show-
ing against Old Snootie’s counter-
attractions.
* * * *
Kui Kong Young, conceding nearly
61b. to “Young” Gildo at Newcastle,
held him to a draw—infighting points
went to the Filipino, outfighting points
to the Chinese. “Young” Gildo must be
at least 35, and he keeps his form mar-
vellously.
Ins and Outs
By “NOT OUT.”
(Formerly of the “Referee.”)
If war had not ruptured international
sport, the Sheffield Shield campaign,
opening in Brisbane and Adelaide next
week, would have aroused very wide in-
terest —not alone in Australia. English-
men were much concerned with the
quality of rising Australian bowlers to
support O’Reilly in the next Test series.
This season is expected to develop
two or three who would have become
strong Test candidates in 1940. The
original international programme may
be carried out if the war terminates in
time, but prospects are not good. More-
over the Australian tour of Maoriland,
to have started three months hence, has
been abandoned. Maorilanders are un-
fortunate never to have seen Bradman,
McCabe and O’Reilly.
New bowlers who emerged from the
gloom a year ago will be seen in action
next week alongside seasoned Test men.
They include Barry Scott, the virile
Victorian of speed, who dazzled everyone
when he obliterated New South Wales
in Sydney, to gather in 12 for 79, and
Ellis, Queensland’s speedy colt, who was
so impressive match after match in his
first season of big cricket.
These bowlers, with Christ, Queens-
land’s flighty left-hander, and one or
two from South Australia, would have
provided a spicy leavening of youth and
variety to entertain batsmen on the other
side of the Tasman. The Dominion tour
would have been of marked value in
giving the right sort of experience to
new bowlers and in stabilising the attack
against Hammond, Hutton and company.
* * * *
McCabe’s 127 in four minutes over
the hour at Hurstville gave St. George
patrons many thrills while he was hitting
17 fours and a six in an effort to force
outright victory for Mosman, 136 behind
on the first innings. Stan gave the
bowling slops, including that of O’Reilly,
who nevertheless had him caught in each
innings. With colt Carmody Stan put
on 178 for the first wicket in the follow-
on. Closure at 4 for 238 gave St. George
just under the hour to make 103. Losing
7 for 75, they held on to first-innings
points, pleased to emerge from an
awkward position without losing their
feathers. Over £9O was taken in three-
pences and sixpences at this match in two
days.
Ray Little, who came out of his shell
at Waitara, rattled up 113 for Western
Suburbs (9 for 343) in chasing Northern
Suburbs’s 288, made the first day. In a
winning hand, Little hit 14 fours. A
fascinating batsman, he scores all round
the wicket when form is right.
Virtue of good length in bowling was
exemplified by Arthur Callaway, Waver-
ley’s left-hander, who secured 5 for 7 in
seven overs on a perfect S.C.G. pitch
against Balmain. It had Hedley Verity
touches, with the flight of the ball a
little lower and the pace a little faster.
sf * * *
Cecil Pepper, the 14st. Petersham all-
rounder chosen for N.S.W. against
Queensland, has it in him to make a
topnotcher. His preference for hitting
sixes instead of fours and for lifting
rather than daisy-cutting drives brings
him down for smaller scores than he is
worth. As a slow leg-break bowler with
nip, he has already taken 31 wickets this
season —eight in an innings twice. His
capacious hands can hold anything catch-
able. Pepper hails from Parkes. Playipg
lawn tennis like a champion, he is as
quick on his feet as a ballet-dancer and
pings the ball with Budge-like speed.
* * * *
Bill Stuart, curator of the Sydney
Cricket Ground, retires at the end of
the year. After 51 years of zealous labors
wrapped up in his job, Bill has surely
not an enemy in the world. He graduated
under Ned Gregory, and Bill took Ned
for pattern. He rivals his master in
robust character and as a silent member.
In the right company, however, Bill
turns on the river of reminiscence, for
his cricket memory is long.
There have been only three curators
of the S.C.G. Ned Gregory was first
(had he lived he would be just a hundred
years old), and was succeeded by Jack
Jennings. Bill Stuart, diffident but highly
competent, has been an ever-modest
figure in the panorama of years from the
Old Hoss and his etceteras (including
the broom) to the modern electric roller.
Ike Wales, who also retires from the
S.C.G. ground staff at the end of the
year, kept wickets for N.S.W. against
Victoria 50 years ago next month. In
his first match against South Australia
in 1890 he caught five batsmen in the
second innings. A wiry little man, Ike
still moves with the short quick steps of
his youth. As he flits across the field on
some official errand at cricket or foot-
ball no one would imagine him to have
been Aunt Sally in the N.S.W. XI half
a century back.
* * * *
Melbourne cricketers struck bad
wickets and rain on Derby Day. Among
inter-State batsmen, Beames topped the
scores with 27 for Melbourne against
St. Kilda. Fast bowler McCormick got
3 for 28 against Ben Barnett’s team (4
for 96). He hit Ben’s sticks.
Arthur Liddicut, the former Sheffield
Shield all-rounder, captured 9 for 16 in
the second eleven’s match for Fitzroy v.
Carlton. Liddicut these days is a very
efficient cricket broadcaster.
* * * *
E. La Frantz was the only Brisbane
man to get a century last Saturday: 104
not out for Toombul v. University. For
the colts in Sydney last season he shaped
well for 57. Bill Brown scored 40 for
Colts v. Valley. Brown’s form is good.
Last season he was the only Australian
to reach the thousand runs in first-class
cricket —1057 in ten finished innings.
Even Don B. with his succession of cen-
turies missed the 1000.
Fast-bowler Ellis got five East Brisbane
wickets for 47 runs in a total of 158 —
very good. Ellis headed both State and
club bowling for the Q.C.A. last season.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Cricket Association
president is Charlie Eady, M.L.C.
Charlie was the first to make two cen-
turies in a first-class match in Australia
—ll6 and 112 not out for Tasmania v.
Victoria in 1895. A fast bowler, he was
the third Tasmanian to win Australian
Eleven honors (in 1896). The “giant”
was also one of the two or three greatest
footballers ever turned out by Tasmania.
* * * *
Arthur Christian, former Victorian left-
hander, hard-hitter and bowler, is chair-
man of the W.A. Association. Arthur’s
enthusiasm does not cool. A few years
ago he published an admirable brochure
entitled “Hints to Cricketers.” In first
with Tommy Warne for Victoria against
N. S. Wales in 1905, Arthur made 98
out of 144 for the opening stand, and
that against Tibbie Cotter and M. A.
Noble. In one match against South Aus-
tralia in Perth he got 5 for 67 and 6
for 56. His best all-round effort was
against the same team; he scored 73 and
57, and took 7 for 144 and 4 for 56.
it is a good thing for cricket when
players of the Arthur Christian stamp
become keen administrators.
The Davis Cup boys returned to Svd-
ney °n Thmsday, bringing their sheaves
with them—otherwise the solid silver
trophy—also Norman Brookes, now a
belted knight. Bromwich and Crawford
straightway learned that they were ex-
pected to make appearances here, there
and everywhere “for the good of the
game” until they drop in their tracks.
“The movements of Quist and Hopman
are unce rtain,” but, if a similar pro-
”en M, £ £ %
for safety.
IRISH SOD
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
THERE used to be a tale that Captain
Cook named* Sydney Harbor after
the man at the Endeavour’s mast-
head who saw its entrance, and
even shrewd old John Dunmore Lang
swallowed and passed it on. And there
has always been the yarn in Sydney of
the mad Irishman who ringed Vaucluse
House with turf imported from the Green
Isle and played the local snakes a dirty
trick. Since some vandal was ill-natured
“ Boomps-a-daisy !”
enough to point out that there was
nobody named Jackson aboard the En-
deavour, it has sometimes been doubted
whether any Irish soil ever came to Vau-
cluse, and if this wasn’t the same sort
of fairy-tale as the older one. But the
story of the Irish soil is true, whatever
Dr. Lang wrote about Cook’s little ship.
After turning him loose in these
columns more than once, I don’t propose
to say anything biographical of the quaint
Henry Browne Hayes, assuming that
most of The Bulletin’s readers know-
all about his transportation for abduct-
ing a Quaker heiress, but here is his title-
deed to the Vaucluse estate, which isn’t
very well known.
“This is to certify that at the sale by
auction of the Estate, Farms and Houses
of the late Captain Thomas Dennett,
authorised by Edward Hanmer Palmer,
Esq., Captain of the Honorable East
India Company’s extra ship Bridgewater,
by letter of Attorney from Messrs. Prin-
ceps and Saunders, the executors of the
will of the said Captain Thomas Den-
nett, deceased, certain farms situate near
South Head, in this territory, were pur-
chased by Sir Henry Browne Hayes,
who was duly declared the best bidder
at the price or sum of one hundred
pounds, and the said Sir Henry Browne
Hayes, having given a set of Bills on his
agent for the sum of £93 stg., being the
net balance, after deducting the charge
for commission, etc., on Condition of his
said agent receiving from the said Messrs.
Princeps and Saunders a regular and due
conveyance of the said Farms according
to Law. The interest of the said Farms
is therefore vested in the said Sir Henry
Browne Hayes, and by virtue thereof
he is entitled to remain in quiet and
undisturbed possession of the same.
Given under my hand this 22nd day of
August, 1803.
“S. Lord,
“Licensed Auctioneer.”
“Signed in the presence of: —
“Robt. Rhodes,
“Saml. Breakwell.”
The present Vaucluse House, much in
the condition in which W. C. Wentworth
owned it, undoubtedly incorporates part
of the cottage Sir Henry erected as a
dwelling for himself. It was a roomy
and well-equipped building, and he was
very comfortable in it, but the surround-
ing bush was infested by all sorts of
snakes, which invaded the house and
even made themselves at home in the
owner’s bed. Well, he was just the boy
to put a stop to that sort of thing.
He had plenty of money, so he got
into touch with a friend in Ireland and
arranged for regular shipments of barrels
of Irish soil from Cork to Sydney. In
the course of a year or so he had some
500 barrels of it stored at Vaucluse. So
he caused a trench six feet wide and two
feet deep to be dug right round the house,
and on St. Patrick’s Day a gang of con-
victs, Irish to a man, shovelled the blessed
soil into it. From that day it has always
been asserted not a snake was seen in-
side the ring of Irish sod.
The curious thing about the whole
story is that, so far as the shipments of
earth from Ireland are concerned, it is
perfectly true. A letter is still in exist-
ence, dated July 29, 1898, from J. G.
Barron, then of 18 Bridge-street, Sydney,
to G. B. Barton, in which he Writes:
“Dear Sir, —Your note to hand yester-
day, and in reply may I state that I
remember distinctly the late John Bar-
low showing my then partner, Captain
Austen, and myself the B/L [bill of
lading] of Irish turf you speak of as a
great curiosity. I do not remember the
name of the vessel.”
So there would hardly seem to be any
question that the popular story about
the Irish sod round Vaucluse House is
quite credible, and that the good story
cannot be blasted by truth as was that
of the naming of Port Jackson.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
63
Snecially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms. Ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 12S Springwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
HEED HELP
Flush Out Your 15 Miles of Kidney Tubes
Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching
back well and strong again—if the trouble is
caused by tired kidneys. .
All the blood in your body circulates
through your kidneys every 15 minutes to be
strained of acids and wastes. Healthy persons
pass about 3 pints a day and so get rid of
over 3 pounds of waste matter. When the
kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of
being-filtered out, wastes and acids get back-
washed into the blood and may become pois-
onous This is often the beginning of nag-
ging backaches, leg pains, loss of pep and
energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait, for serious trouble to lay you
un Ask your chemist for DOAN S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY DILLS and get the same
quick relief they have been giving millions
for many years. If backache is bothering
vou due to tired kidneys, try DOAN S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY DILLS to-day.
A WOMANS
LETTER
Malcolm Sargent couldn’t have had a
more brilliant ending to his Sydney
season than the celebrity orchestral con-
cert in support of Lady Gowrie’s appeal
for Red Cross funds. Before eight o’clock
crowds had gathered on the pavement
and on the steps leading to the Town
Hall to watch the occupants of car and
taxi arrive, and in the foyer and cor-
ridors the flower-sellers were already
doing a brisk trade. The sale of lucky
numbers —the prize Dr. Sargent’s baton
—brought in £lOO. On every side the eye
rested on the Red Cross. The flower-
sellers wore one on their white frocks ;
they were emblazoned on the white ban-
nerettes that hung at intervals over the
balconies. The most arresting of all was
the huge cross that, suspended from the
ceiling, hung high above the heads of the
orchestra.
The cause had appealed to Sydney’s
imagination, and the Town Hall could
not accommodate all that clamored for
tickets. As it was, the chairs were moved
so close to the platform that those sit-
ting in the front row had to crane their
heads to get a view of the orchestra.
People sat high up on the organ loft,
behind the orchestra, amidst the
masses of arum-lilies, hippeastrums and
orange-blossom. Every woman in the
audience wore or carried lily-of-the-valley
(bought as she entered the foyer). The
girls in the orchestra had sprays pinned
on their black frocks. Men wore red
carnations. Sargent, Brownlee and Lionel
Lawson wore white ones.
Lord and Lady Gowrie brought a large
party; so did Lord and Lady Wakehursl.
Amethyst chiffon over silver lame formed
Lady Gowrie’s frock. She carried lily-
of-the-valley: Lady Wakehurst wore
white; so did daughter the Hon. Hen-
rietta Loder. The Princess of Baria,
who with her brother, the Maharajah of
Tripura, was with the Admiralty House
group, was a most attractive visitor.
Mayoress Nock’s black taffetas had a
deep hem of turquoise blue. The
women’s committee (Alexander Gordon’s
lady, Mrs. Walter Swinson, Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax, Mrs. Robert Dixson and Mrs.
Hope Gibson), organisers of the concert,
felt proud of its success. Ivor Newton
for once heard John Brownlee from the
audience side of the platform.
It was a night of excitement. Malcolm
Sargent was in great fettle, the orchestra
got caught up in his enthusiasm, and
John Brownlee of the friendly smile and
the gorgeous voice got a warm reception.
There were dinner parties before and
supper parties after the concert. Dr.
Sargent, John Brownlee, Ivor Newton,
the C. L. Joneses, Mrs. Mick Dalton, of
Orange, and the A.B.C. Charles Moses
couple went on to the home of the T. H.
Kellys. The George Pattersons gave a
party ; so did the Robert Dixson couple.
Mrs. Hope Gibson went on, after help-
ing to count the takings, which amounted
to £l2OO, to Mrs. Harold Bott’s party
at the Australia.
Members of the first expeditionary
force Australia sent to the war of 1914-
18 will remember the Japanese warship
Ibuki as part of the troopships’ convoy.
They will also remember that it re-
mained on escort duty, at the request
of the flagship Melbourne, while the
Sydney was detailed to engage the
Emden. A painting of this scene, show-
ing the exact position of the convoy
when the Emden was located, has been
done by Rokuo Arai, Japan’s leading
artist. This was formally handed over
to Prime Minister Menzies by knight
Thomas Gordon on behalf of Mr. Shozo
Murata, president of the O.S.K. shipping
line, at the Wentworth Hotel one after-
noon last week. Mr. Nomura, the personal
representative of Mr. Murata in Sydney,
was among the notables.
Wednesday’s function was probably
of historic interest, but the tea party
on Thursday, given by the Gordon lady
and Mrs. Nomura, was more colorful.
Centre of interest was the picture, which
measures lift, by Bft. and is valued at
£2OOO. It was draped with the Union
Jack, Australia’s flag and Japan’s flag
—the rising sun very vivid against its
white background. On balcony rail and
on table the three flags mingled in
harmony. The small battleships, com-
plete with guns, flew them ; so did the
lighthouses and the small ornamental
bridges that were part of the decora-
tions. The highest standing bridge had
three pylons, the centre one rising above
the others. On each side of this was
the word “welcome” in letters that
looked as though they were cut out of
the stonework. All the decorations
looked as though they were made from
bread baked a gold brown —the pylons
might have been long rolls stood on edge.
The wives of many Japanese business
and shipping men came in the dress of
their country, so that soon the room
was filled with color mauves, blues,
purples, greens, yellows and plum blue.
All the dresses were beautifully em-
broidered. Mrs. Murata, who with the
Gordon lady received the guests, wore
plum blue; her schoolgirl daughter was
all rosy pink and silver. Mrs. Akiyama,
wife of the Japanese Consul-General,
was in delicate mist blues richly em-
broidered.
Vicky and Helen Gordon did their
bit in making people known to each
other. Mrs. H. McLerie, from America
(her husband, the high serang of the
Swift International, is over here on
business), was an interesting visitor.
Mrs. Ray Emmerich and Mrs. Felton
were there. Professor Sadler’s wife
wore a white panama hat with her navy-
and-white-striped frock. Edith Haynes
brought a message of regret from her
aunt, Dame Mary Hughes ; Mrs. L. Nos-
kowski, Archdale Parkhill’s lady, Mrs.
George Maitland, the Maitland lady and
Mrs. J. B. Williams were others who
found the afternoon enjoyable.
One of the pretty brides of last week
was Irene Williams, who became Lady
Poynter at St. Mary’s Basilica. The bride,
who is the elder daughter of the C. E.
Williamses, of McMahon’s Point, wore a
frock of summer-sky-blue crepes, and
carried mother-of-pearl rosary beads
and blue-bound prayer-book. Sister Edna
’maided in rosy georgettes. Her hat was
a small pillbox affair in the same shade,
her flowers pink carnations. A family
dinner at Usher’s followed the ceremony.
Rene Pardon made this photograph a
few months before the wedding.
There were goldfish and water-lilies in
the basin of the playing fountain that
stood near the entrance of Mayoress
Nock’s room when she held a reception
in honor of Lady Gowrie. The day was
wiltingly hot, so the plash of water, the
grassy garden plot and the miniature trees
at the top of the stairway put new life into
the hundreds that filed through the corri-
dors to be presented.
Lady Gowrie wore orchids and a small
black Breton sailor hat with her dusty-
pink crepe frock, which was patterned
in black, while Mayoress Nock bright-
ened up her navy sheers with sprays of
lily-of-the-valley. Mrs. V. A. H. Sturdee
(her husband is the recently appointed
C.O. of the Eastern Command) brought
daughter Margaret. Madame Noskowski,
wife of the Polish Consul, came on from
the lunch given to her and her husband
by the League of Nations Union. With
her was the Consul for Latvia’s wife,
Mrs. Norman McLeod. Mrs. O Malley
Wood’s black hat was wide of brim ; so
was Mrs. E. H. Salenger’s black hat.
Dame Constance D’Arcy talked with
Mrs. Bernard Muscio. The largest hat in
the room was worn by Mrs. McKerihan,
wife of the Rural Bank chieftain. . It
was of black velvet, of the Bieton sailor
family, and had a slim, green bird
perched on its shallow crown. Mrs. J.
Falkner Blaxland’s navy hat and cameo-
pink frock made a happy combination.
Mrs. Toby Brown was with Mrs. Aki-
yama, the wife of the Japanese Consul;
Josephine Marks was there. Mrs. Hubert
Fairfax brought daughter-in-law Mrs.
Vincent Fairfax. Mrs. C. J. Pao was
smart in blue and white spotted sheer.
By the time you read this Melbourne
will have discovered how much Olga
Coelho is adding to the gaiety of Cup
Week. This dark-haired, sparkling-eyed
Brazilian captured Sydney’s heart last
week when she gave her recitals at the
Assembly Hall. Before each item she
tells you something of the song that she
is going to sing, and she creates such an
atmosphere of intimacy that there is
always one or more in the audience to
supply a word when she gets stuck.
In addition to her artistry, women will
admire her clothes. For her first num-
bers she wore a jacket frock of opalescent
sequins that gleamed rosily. Liked
particularly the black velvet, hooped of
skirt, she wore for her South American,
Spanish and Portuguese love-songs. Of
course, there was a shawl —this was of
camellia-pink deeply fringed and draped
so that it didn’t interfere with her guitar.
Add diamond earrings, an antique brace-
let and a slender chain from which hung
a gold cross sparkling with jewels. When
she came out to sing the folk-songs she
put her two hands on the piano, gave a
little, hop, and there she sat, her peasant
frock, gay with flowers, spreading out
gracefully. Her gaiety was catching.
Soon the audience was humming the
refrain of the Spanish numbers.
Memories of the Russian Ballet were
stirred by the title “Boutique” given by
Royal Prince Alfred’s Lord High Chris-
tener to the institution’s new shop. The
shop (its merchandise will not break into
animation like that in the enchanted ballet)
is on the corner of Missenden-road and
Prince Alfred-lane. It stands a trifle
back from the dust of the highway, from
which it is protected by a fringe of trees.
If you are visiting a sick friend and
have forgotten the small gift, the bunch
of flowers, the Boutique is where you
make your first call. Here an assortment
of treasures (more varied than those of
the barber’s shop on an ocean-going
vessel) greets the gaze. There’s a touch
of the Continental city in the attention
to detail. Behind the ground-lerfgth
panels of plate glass all goods take on
added fascination. The nurses are going
to bless the little shop when in a hurry
to keep a date they discover the best silk
stockings have run a ladder or two.
Morning and afternoon teas will be
served. The hospital’s auxiliary workers
will man the bright new premises.
Violinist Marjorie Hambridge, who
spent four weeks in St. Luke’s Hospital,
is home again, recovered and anxious to
start work once more.
The diamond ring that Eleanore Dalton
is wearing was slipped on to her finger
by Lionel James Bridge. Eleanore is a
daughter of the E. B. Daltons, of Rose
Bay, and one time of Ammerdown,
Orange. Lionel, who deals in law, is
a son of the Alan Bridges, of Meudon
Flats, Elizabeth Bay. At the dinner party
given last night by Mrs. Dalton at Prince s
to announce the engagement, Eleanore
wore a black moire frock, very much
ruched and gathered, its neckline
bordered in black and yellow flowers.
The Bertie Kellys are smiling happily
over the news that daughter Patricia,
with her husband Gualtiero Volterra
and small daughter Tatia, will be with
them for Christmas. This is a long-
looked-forward-to visit. Mr. Volterra’s
fame as a pianist has reached Australia.
Mrs. Volterra is a clever linguist, and
that she translated Axel Munthe’s San
Michele into Italian has already been
mentioned in this page.
Priscilla (Sue) Other Gee, only daugh-
ter of Mr. and Mrs. Alban Other Gee,
of Wentworth-street, Point Piper, has
announced her engagement. The man
in the case is Lord Adam Granville
Gordon, heir-presumptive to his brother,
the Marquess of Huntly, the premier
marquess of Scotland.
The new pre-school wing at Black-
friars Demonstration School was a
cheery, sunny place on the official open-
ing day. There is a shining bathroom
where hands and teeth are made impec-
cable and, if necessary, more thorough
ablutions can be undertaken. Windows
form one side of the main classroom,
and these are curtained in primrose
muslin. As the tots average two years
old, it was useless to put their names
on the compartments in which their little
sheet and blanket are kept for the after-
lunch nap. So hand-painted cards of
Australian birds and flowers were affixed,
and unerringly the smallest one will take
you to the compartment with the lyre-
bird or waratah behind which are its
belongings.
The children took no notice of the visi-
tors —all their attention was for their
blocks or picture books, or for the
teacher who was telling them stories ; and
while Dr. Machin was making the open-
ing speech these little Australians were
happily eating their midday meal of
baked mincemeat, mashed potatoes, cab-
bage and bread and honey (milk and
rusks are served in the morning, and milk
again in the afternoon). Among the im-
portants of the day were Miss Simpson,
the pioneer of kindergarten schools in
N.S.W., and Miss Stevens, the school’s
headmistress, who very proudly showed
the guests over the building.
E. Kilburn Scott, of London, a con-
fessed admirer of this page, has sent a
paragraph about the opening of the new
“Edwin Drood” room at the Dickens
House in Doughty-street. This was
opened bv Compton Mackenzie, presi-
dent-elect 'of the Dickens Fellowship, and
it contains every known volume, and
there are hundreds of them, written about
the mystery that Dickens left unsolved.
The collection has been presented by the
president of the Dickens Fellowship of
New York, Dr. Howard Duffield. Bound
copies of the American paper “Punch-
inello,” which published a burlesque of
the story, are in the collection.
This Letter decided that Swiss humor
is as dry as the Scots, after hearing
Switzerland’s Consul Hedinger open Paul
Haefliger’s show. The Consul was in
great form, and after cracking his joke
got to the kernel of his speech, which
was a clever resume of Swiss art, ancient
and modern. Everybody came to this
show, from veterans like Julian Ashton
to beginners like Lesbia Thorpe. Lesbia,
incidentally, is working just now on a
portrait of The Bulletin’s David Mc-
Kee Wright, Mrs, Hedinger, Jean Bellette
(Mrs. Paul Haefliger and an artist in her
own right) and Mrs. Bellette were kept
busy with many greetings.
Paul is of Swiss birth, but has lived in
Australia since his boyhood. His wife is
an Australian. In this show there are
glimpses of France, Yugoslavia, Italy and
even Tokio. A woodcut of a Buddhist
temple in Kyoto admired by many, in-
cluding interior-decorator Margaret Jaye
and artist Ruth Pascoe, had been ex-
hibited at the Royal Academy in 1934.
An American tea (bring a gift and
buy a gift) will be held at the Royal
Sydney Yacht Squadron’s clubhouse on
Saturday, November 18. This is being
organised by the squadron’s women’s
auxiliary, which has combined forces
with the naval war auxiliary group.
Object, to supply comforts for the men
of the navy.


Personal and Missing Friends.
Robert William Crooks.
BELIEVED to have come to Australia about
39 years ago from Northern Ireland. Anyone
knowing his whereabouts please communicate
with the PERPETUAL EXECUTORS, TRUS-
TEES & AGENCY CO (W.A.), LTD., 93 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth.
WOULD any person knowing the whereabouts
or able to supply any particulars of WILLIAM
JAMES BRYDON, who was born at Kingston
on Thames, England, in 1860, and was for-
merly a butter-maker at Sale but was last
heard of at Newcastle, New South Wales, about
1914, please communicate with WILLIAM S.
COOK & McCALLUM, Solicitors, Temple
Court, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne?
EDWARD HAROLD DINGLE, a son of
Edward Helson Dingle, late of Wollongong,
deceased, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with COX & WISEMAN,
Solicitors, Wollongong.
TO JAMES ALEXANDER LADD formerly
of Yallourn in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown Labourer.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife RUBY
GRACE LADD has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of de-
sertion Unless you enter an appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme Court
in Melbourne on or before the 18th day of
November 1939 and file your answer herein
on or before the 29th day of November 1939
the case may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to pay costs.
JAS. RICHARDS, 317 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Legal Notices.
IN the estate of CHARLES AUGUST DUHR
also known as Charles Albert Gouch late
of Aitape in the Territory of New Guinea
deceased intestate.
Place and date of death: Leihinga in the
Sepik District on 31st August 1936.
The Curator of Intestate Estates of Rabaul
in the said Territory as administrator of the
above estate intends if no adverse claim is re-
ceived before 30th November 1939 to distribute
the said estate between the deceased’s widow
Elsie Elizabeth Duhr and his two sons Charles
George Duhr and Albert John Duhr.
J. L. STREET,
Curator of Intestate Estates.
Rabaul, 26th October, 1939.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
No. 3648 of 1939.
BETWEEN THOMAS KIERAN McEVOY
Plaintiff
And REUBEN THOMAS HALFPENNY
Defendant.
TO REUBEN THOMAS HALFPENNY late
of Engonnia in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said THOMAS
KIERAN McEVOY has issued a specially en-
dorsed writ against you in this Honorable
Court claiming the sum of £ll7 9s. being
moneys paid on your behalf at your request
to General Motors Acceptance Corporation
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required
to enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the Eighteenth day of December next
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Plaintiff will proceed to judgment and execu-
tion. A copy of the said writ may be obtained
from the undersigned Solicitor free of charge.
DATED this 3rd day of November One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) E. L- DICKSON,
Deputy Prothonotary.
JOHN J. AUSTIN, Solicitor for the Plain-
tiff, 83 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TO SIDNEY HUNGERFORD LUTTRELL
formerly of Marradong in the State of
Western Australia.
TAKE NOTICE that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia D. No. 10 of 1939 by
Dalgety and Company Limited of William
Street Perth in which the plaintiff’s claim is
for £760 4s. 4d. for moneys lent the price of
goods sold and delivered moneys paid for
you at your request and interest particulars
of which have been rendered by the plaintiff
to you And that it has been ordered that ser-
vice of the writ in the said action on you be
effected by this advertisement If you desire
to defend the said action you must within 45
days from and inclusive of the Bth day of Novem-
ber 1939 enter an appearance at the Central
Office Supreme Court Perth In default of such
appearance judgment may be entered against
you Your appearance to the said writ must
give an address at some place within five miles
of the Central Office of the Supreme Court of
Western Australia at Perth at which address
proceedings and notices for you may be left.
DATED the 2nd day of October, 1939.
PARKER & PARKER, 21 Howard Street,
Perth, Solicitors for the Plaintiff.
Melbourne
Chatter
The weather played a low-down trick
on Derby Day. In the morning and
early afternoon it dangled the bait of
new race-day apparel so temptingly that
it was swallowed by nearly everybody;
then just after the big race had been run
it turned around and stabbed the venture-
some in the back, or, worse still, upon
the crowns of their perishable hats. From
that hour onwards umbrellas and rain-
coats were precious as winning tickets.
Mrs. Leigh Falkiner looked right for
any season in navy blue with a sugges-
tion of diagonal white stripes upon her
lapels. Mrs. Alan Tully also fitted into
a two-season picture with her butter-
scotch-tan coat, lined back of its cravat
with jade, echoed also in her handbag,
gloves and hat ribbons. Katie Weir’s
cream coat had black velvet lapels and
pipings. Phyllis Fuller’s grey ensemble
ran to a Robin Redbreast-red bag and
glove accessories and a scarf adangling
down the back of her chimneypot hat.
The chimney headwear of Sheila Martin,
of Wagga, was even taller and thinner —
a real factory smokestack in navy straw'
worn with a lilac woollen coat. Among
those who went forth with confidence in
grey tailored suits were Lorraine Cum-
ming and Mrs. Fred Gilder, but the
saddling paddock saw little from teatime
onwards of Valerie Palmer, in blue linen
frock and peasant embroidered white
coat; of Dr. Lorna Bray, in a powder-
pink sheer coat patterned with black
roses ; of Sue Gullett, in her black-and-
white crepe frock and hat that was all
wide-eyed brim and crown open to the
coiffure ; or of Mrs. Bryan Page, in a
white linen suit and a big white hat with
a realistic rosy-cheeked apple as its
frontispiece.
In spite of grim forebodings the Carry-
on Ball carried on in St. Kilda Town
Hall with much success. The tickets
didn’t go off well early in the piece, but
the Carry-on-ers are not the sort of
returned Diggers to hoist the white flag
of surrender. They roped in extra help,
attached themselves like limpets to tele-
phones, and so put the hard word on
“prospects.” Among those who helped
in the round-up for 600-odd dancers were
the Lady Mayoress, who made herself
responsible for a share of telephoning,
W. L. Sinclair, K. C. Bainbridge, Robert
Curthbertson and G. A. Winwood. Mr.
Winwood also got out his hammer and
nails to run up sentry-boxes where sat
the sellers of bar tickets.
The bar, of course, was a very popular
mixing ground right through the even-
ing. Other committee people who got on
with the job included the Kelly and Best
ladies, Mrs. Clive Steele, Mrs. E. F.
Herring and Mrs. George Stevenson, who
were at the hall from dawn till dusk
arranging flowers. The popular lucky-
dip ran out of its contents round about
10.30. Among the dancers was a visitor
from California, Marion Hogan, who was
looked after for the evening by Gilbert
Dyett.
Joan Purnell won approbation for the
air with which she wore her uncommon
choice of apparel; in two shades of grey
the gown had a cowl attachment worn
over the hair and a sash of scarlet suede.
Peggy Tronson came forth in the green
and silver gauze frock in which st’e was
painted in Paris by Doumergue. With her
slinky black-and-white-striped gown Mrs.
Goring O’Connell wore an eye visor of
black tulle attached to the top of her dark
head. Orchids had a night off and red
roses one on with Mrs. Hamilton Sleigh
and Mrs. Eric Mcllwraith, who both
otherwise wore pastel £)ink, Mrs. Sleigh’s
frock shimmering with crystal beads and
Mrs. Mcllwraith’s a-glitter with larger
sequins.
Nancy Bird, auburn-headed, very much
alive and endowed with self-possession
in inverse ratio to her size and weight,
is running her Wings Over the World
Exhibition at Myer’s. She supervised
the opening ceremony, signalled the
moment when the music should com-
mence, entered into the speeches with
spirit and led a tour of inspection among
her exhibits of posters, models of ’planes
and of aerodromes. Among the listeners
was Cyril Power, who has been flying
for fun for many years. He hopes soon
to get his instructor’s certificate.
The exhibition was opened by Wing-
Commander Cobby, who stated a few
facts of comparison between the old
days and the present era of flying.
“Cob,” who is president of the Caul-
field Returned Soldiers’ Club, organised
a leaflet raid last week on the city of
Caulfield. Notwithstanding the fact that
rain drowned many of the leaflets and
others landed on inaccessible roofs the
pilots of the five Aero Club ’planes con-
cerned were satisfied that they had got
over good propaganda for a patriotic
rally in the Caulfield Town Hall.
An unenviable task has been that of
the selection committee for the Antique
Exhibition to be opened by Lady Dugan
in the Lower Town Hall on November
15 at a private view which is the com-
mencement of a fortnight’s season. Prop-
erties and possessions of ancient lineage
are being lent by their owners to aid the
Red Cross and St.. Mary’s Mission. The
selectors had to use tact in plenty in
keeping up the standard and warding off
owners of hideosities. A kind of insu-
lator-in-chief upon the executive com-
mittee is George Ewing, who has kept
the powers that abide therewith from ex-
ploding during the weeks of preparations.
George’s legal mind is a help ; so is his
philosophy, one induced by the contem-
plation and the enjoyment of ancient
Chinese art. Among his treasures which
he is lending to the exhibition is a
Chinese urn of the Tang period. Dated
700, its original destiny was to hold the
ashes of most revered ancestors of yet
earlier lineage.
George’s father. Dr. S. A. Ewing (who
presented the University with its picture
gallery), is lending the exhibition some
silver and French enamel. Mrs. W. E.
Agar has promised a collection of
eighteenth and early nineteenth century
lace. Mrs. A. M. Treacy will lend Eng-
lish furniture and porcelain, also a
Hepplewhite knife urn 2ft. high, in satin-
wood. Mrs. Tom Grantham will con-
tribute some porcelain of the seventeenth
century, also flower paintings on vellum.
The Gengoult Smiths are lending one of
Marie Antoinette’s Sevres caskets, and Dr.
Deborah Buller Murphy has promised
many things, including some early
Georgian glass in colors of green, ruby,
amber and amethyst. From Mrs. Geof-
frey Syme’s home will come three rare
Jacobean chairs dated 1620.
In the Broothorn portrait is Mrs. Garnet
Leary, whose marriage took place in
London recently and who arrived in
Australia with her husband three weeks
ago. She is nossessed of the brogue and
of a soft and charming voice ; like her
well-known medico husband she hails
from the north of Ireland. Mrs. Leary
belongs to a hunting family, and her
other outdoor interests include golf and
tennis.
Dr. Leary’s most recent journey round
the world was made by way of Africa,
with a look from the air at the Zambesi
and the Victoria Falls, across the Atlantic
to Rio de Janeiro, the West Indies and
North America (where he attended the
International Military Medical Congress
in Washington), over to Ireland and the
heaths of Donegal and the Dublin Horse
Show. The war caught him between
Berlin and Moscow, for he had an
appointment to let the Soviet brethren
hear how the brogue sounds upon the
subject of stammering spoken through
the instruments of radio. But even an
Irishman thinks twice about getting mixed
up with the comrades’ hammers and
sickles when the world goes to war. His
exit to England and eventually home
to Sandringham was made with speed.
The audience which found its way to
the King’s Theatre for the Young Aus-
tralians’ musical comedy and revue last
week had an entertaining night. The
lads, originally a Y.A.L. offshoot, ex-
panded so much histrionically that they
slipped the bridle of this society and have
been for some time all-out professionals.
Among them are three Victorians, boy
soprano Len Bottomley, pianist George
Shilling and Ballarat cornetist Neil Webb.
Sixteen-year-old George Nichols parodied
movie stars, burlesqued a magician, etc.,
with great success. Ron Morris, a long-
legged young spider of 6ft. sin., is also
a comedian and dancer who gets over
with no trouble. Colin Croft is the lad
who does female impersonations so
cleverly. Off the stage he’s very much a
he-boy who looks embarrassed when
strangers ask him “Well, my lad, what
do you do in the show?”
Frances Bult, the former Olympic
swimmer, and Dr. Travis William Vor-
rath were married at St. Andrew’s,
Middle Brighton, and received felicita-
tions afterwards at a late-afternoon party
at Menzies. After their honeymoon, the
destination of which is a closely guarded
secret, they will live at Surrey Hills. The
friendship of this bride and ’groom dates
back to University days and even earlier.
Frances went to Melbourne Girls’ Gram-
mar School and afterwards studied mas-
sage. With her parents and younger
brother Bill she returned two months ago
from a holiday abroad, via U.S.A. both
going and coming home.
An engagement of some 18 months’
duration but a wedding all arranged in
a week was on the line of fate for
Eugenie La Gerche and Dr. Hugh John-
ston. Dickinson-Monteath’s picture is of
Eugenie, who wore bridal taffeta,
Limerick lace and tulle on the evening
of last Monday for her wedding in the
Melbourne Grammar School chapel. She
is the younger daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
A. R. La Gerche, and was attended by
her sister Marguerite and by Dorothea
Dixon, a pal of University days. The
’groom had the support of his brother
Desmond and of Dr. Neil Prescott, also
a confrere of the times when examina-
tions loomed over every horizon. Eugenie
is an Old Collegian of P.L.C. While
pursuing an arts course at the University,
which she completed last year, she trained
the ballet for several students’ revues.
The home of the newly-wedded couple
will be in East Melbourne.
“Credo,” a spectacular and colorful
pageant with an underlying spiritual
meaning, was performed on the M.C.C.
ground on Saturday night. Written by
a Belgian ecclesiastic, Joseph Boon, in
1936, it has been performed several times
in Belgium. The English version was
produced for the first time in Auckland
under the direction of G. D. Walton, who
also directed the Melbourne production
held in honor of the centenary of Roman
Catholicism in Victoria.
Mr. Walton has by now ceased to fur-
row his brow over weather. In Auck-
land it rained for days, but on the date
of the production it suddenly cleared. In
Melbourne it rained on Saturday, as the
crowd at the Derby well know, and it
went on raining with mournful persist-
ence into the evening right up to the hour
of eight, when it suddenly stopped and
the stars came out.
The M.C.C. is now roofed right around
except for the cement stand, which is
covered by the one-and-a-half-acre
“Credo” stage, but the damp outside
seats were packed also with the overflow
of the 60,000-odd spectators. Great
indeed was their faith that they should
have turned out on such a night. The
plot of “Credo” is simple allegory—a
prologue of a world of strength and
beauty, young builders and a fine law-
abiding city, Christianity and a proces-
sion of angels. Then come Satan and
his seven deadly sins ; religion and civili-
sation are threatened. The angel of
destruction appears, and is followed by
remorse and a train of lamentations and
penitents, but the evil forces are thwarted
and the young builders sing God’s
praises as they remake their world.
All the tricks of modem art were
drawn upon to gain the feeling of height
and distance upon the stage structure
(steel, painted wood and cardboard), built
in the form of a wide stairway, steep-
graded ramps that made the “hill,” tall
buildings that fell to destruction when
good triumphed over evil, a tower against
the sky that hid beneath it a chapel. A
very elaborate system of lighting was
used with hidden footlights, arcs in the
dark arena and spotlights from the top
of the roof. Spectacular contrasts were
obtained and the coloring was beautiful.
The sound was a different story. The
difficulty of amplifying music and dia-
logue over such a large ground was
noticeable on Saturday, but as the even-
ing progressed the tone of the organ and
the choir (partly hidden in the turrets of
the city) and of individual voices became
clearer. The conclusion of the pageant
was a procession of the Children of Mary'
round the edge of the arena (the centre
of the ground was not used), a blackout
of the whole concourse and the holding
on high by the girls of twinkling blue
lights. The hierarchy took part in the
final procession, which culminated with
a ceremony in the tower chapel.
Florence Mundy, a popular soprano
of old days in Melbourne, is dead in
Adelaide. As Mrs. Coffey she was
mother of a large family, and her last
request was a firm wish that her daugh-
ter Gwen, a star performer in the
amateur “Arcadians” then at the Royal,
should not damage the show by giving
up the part.


BRANDAUERrS
e
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
& BBANDAOJSR * CO- Ltd, BIRMINGHAM, IiNG
RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
Perth .. . 500 watts
Northam. . 2000 watts
6KG Kalgoorlie 500 watts
St. George’s Hse., St. George’s Tee., Perth
6PM
6AM
PETROL RATIONING
The Minister for Defence has notified the
public that plans have been made for the
substitution in ail “emergency” of Charcoal
Gas units on Military Transport equipment
in Australia.
WHY WAIT FOR THIS
“EMERGENCY”?
Any handy man can now make his own effi-
cient gas plant to operate Tractors, Trucks,
Cars or any kind -of spark plug stationary
engine—from the crude'oil drum type to the
latest design. , , ~
A good gas plant can be made out of oaas
and ends for a few. shillings so simple is
the principle. Our set of easily understood
drawings and complete instructions, which
cost £l, shows you how to (Jo the job in a
practical way, and the engine is not altered.
You can drive on petrol or charcoal at will, and
SAVE 90% IN FUEL COSTS.
' Send now.
F. MAHER
178 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY.
THE SERVICE MAN
November 9, 1914.
The ninth of November is a day
famous in Australian history. On that
day 25 years ago H.M.A.S. Sydney shot
the Emden to pieces.
Sydney was one of three cruisers guard-
ing 38 transports packed with Australian
and Maoriland soldiers. “At 6.24 that
morning,” as Charles Bean told the story
in graphic words, “the wireless operators
in many of the ships suddenly received
a short message, very loud and clear”:
“a strange warship” was “approaching
Cocos.”
The commander of H.M.A.S. Mel-
bourne “signalled to the Sydney to make
for Cocos.” At 10.45, Sydney wirelessed:
“Am briskly engaging enemy. At 11.10
she reported: “Emden beached and done
for.”
One of the three cruisers was the
Japanese Ibuki. When Sydney “faded
into the distance,” Melbourne and Ibuki
changed positions, and “someone said
‘look at the Ibuki.’ ”
The Japanese ship was moving across
the bows of a convoy to join the Mel-
bourne. Her decks were naked; her
upper works were neatly padded with
rolled hammocks; a few white figures
moved about her. Aloft at the peak,
planted fair against the black smoke-clouds,
flew one huge Japanese ensign When
she reached the Melbourne in the dis-
tance, she was seen once to turn and head
for the horizon in the direction of the
fight. She had signalled “I wish to go
and help Sydney,” but the captain of the
Melbourne refused the permission re-
quested.
This scene has been preserved in a
spirited picture, commissioned by Mr.
Shozo Murata, president of the Osaka
Shosen Kaisha co. and a member of the
Japanese House of Peers, and painted in
oils by a representative Japanese artist,
Mr. Arai, after the death of the com-
mander of the Ibuki early this year. In
Sydney last week, the painting was pre-
sented to the Commonwealth and accepted
for the nation by the Prime Minster.
The Japanese Consul-General, Mr.
Akiyama, made a speech, and Mr. Men-
zies replied in felicitous sentences. It is
the kind of thing he does uncommonly
well.
Butter, Bacon and Ships.
Britain is rationing butter and bacon—
4oz. of each per person per week. Jt
doesn’t mean that U-boat sinkings of
merchantmen have suddenly become
serious or that Berlin is to be believed
when it claims —as it claimed last week
—that only three tinfish have failed to
return to port; but it does mean that
the enemy has had some success in dis-
locating Denmark’s trade with Britain.
Normally Danish exports of bacon to
Britain are worth £15,000,000 or
£16,000,000 sterling p.a.; Danish exports
of butter about £12,000,000 p.a.
Australia and Maoriland have bacon
to spare, and lots of butter. Shipping is
the difficulty. Australia at least ought to
be building ships —not in any of the Big
Cities, but in safe and secluded ports,
hitherto neglected, which Queensland,
Westralia, S.A. and Tasmania could place
at the disposal of the authorities.
Ships built in Australia may be needed
before the war ends, and they will
assuredly be needed afterwards.
Why the Difference?
“Nobby”: By what process of reason-
ing were the rates of pay for our senior
service decided upon? R.A.N.R. men
were collared at once for the duration,
and their pay went on to a war basis
without the 30 days’ grace allowed the
militia.
Before the war a naval reservist was
considered to be worth as much as a
militiaman —both got eight bob a day.
But as soon as war broke out the new
scales were introduced. An A.I.F. private
gets ss. a day (another Is. after em-
barkation) and, if married, 3s. per day
for a wife and Is. for a child. A naval
man gets 4s. a day, plus 2s. for wife,
plus 9d. for each child, and Is. 3d. de-
ferred pay. Thus an A.I.F. private with
a wife and one child will receive 10s. per
day, including Is. deferred pay ; a sea-
man, Bs., including Is. 3d. deferred pay.
Perhaps it is Canberra’s gallant com-
pliment to the frugality of sailors’ wives.
“Plain Ben”: Commonwealth Minis-
ters have been looking over six-inchers,
multiple machine-guns and two-pounder
“ Coming , ready or not!”
pom-poms. These last two types of
armament should give them a fair idea
of why the U-boats are doing so little
damage to convoys. The pom-poms reel
off a couple of hundred explosive shells a
minute ; the multiple guns, a hedge of
spitting barrels, heap empty shells on the
deck like falling hail. And the heavier
weapons have an awkward range of
elevation, much steeper than of yore.
* * * *
In Australia merchantmen have been
converted into auxiliary cruisers, and
others are on the way to completion.
Fifty merchant ships have been fitted with
guns. Construction is going ahead at a
great pace. A boom defence vessel has
reached the launching stage, one of the
new Tribal class destroyers is about to
be laid down, a sloop will be ready for
the water in a few weeks’ time, and then
work will be begun on another Tribal.
Another boom defence vessel is also pro-
vided for. At present there are 1500 men
on naval construction in one yard, and
some are making round £l6 a week.
The Selection Board for Duntroon
College is having a busy time this year.
There are 40 vacancies and 250 candi-
dates.
* * * *
“Zedo”: Prime Minister Menzies’s
broadcast speech to all militia camps was
heard without enthusiasm. Speeches
are not much in the Australian soldiers’
line unless the speaker, like W. M.
Hughes, speaks their own language.
Apart from the cheering for the Little
Digger, the only remark I heard about
an orator in the last war was uttered by
a Queenslander about one of our loudest
legislators of the day: “What-oh! Ain’t
he a bosker? What about takin’ him
along to camouflage machine-gun fire?”
* * * *
“2315”: With the A.I.F. at Bullecourtl
saw discipline which could not have been
. bettered by the Spartans at Thermopylae.
Instead of being marched in battalions
into the front line for the take-off, men
of our division were merely lined up in
reserve and told to report independently
at their positions in the hop-off trench
under cover of the darkness. From the
artillery possies I watched them going
forward like a Saturday-afternoon crowd
at Flemington in time for the first
race; when the call came not a man
was missing. Then the tanks failed or
something, and the stunt was declared
off for the day. A fog hid our men from
the enemy, so they were told to get
to reserves in the way they had
come up. Waiting at an observation
post a few hundred yards from the front
line we saw them coming in thousands
through the fog, and thought they were
Germans. The obvious thing was to
buzz for the barrage, but my mate told
me to get the guns on the wire and wait
till he made sure. He ran forward,
recognised our men, streaked back to
me with the information, and thus saved
the lives of thousands. All he got out
of it was a broad grin when he told
the story. Such discipline was common
in France and Flanders.
* * * *
“F.A.M.”: With enlistments in Maori-
land’s National Reserve approaching
36,000, Defence Minister Jones an-
nounced that recruiting would cease.
Ex-Diggers, who were eligible for Class
II of the reserve, contributed the lion’s
share of the 36,000, and many are once
more in khaki doing guard duty. Most
of the senior officers for the new expedi-
tionary force also learnt the war game
in 1914-18.
* * * *
“Loralai”: First batch of the 2nd
A.I.F. entered camp at Liverpool
(N.S.W.) as raw recruits, practically
none having had previous training. But
officers had been carefully picked and the
progress made is remarkable. The men
hail from every corner of the State.
Within a few hours of arrival in camp the
donning of the sloppy drill working dress
puts them all on the same level, and iden-
tities become secrets that only the records
can disclose. The list of occupations
represented covers nearly everything.
From the country come graziers,
jackeroos, station hands, stock and sta-
tion agents, miners and horsebreakers.
There are accountants, bakers, butchers,
radio announcers, golf professionals and
laborers. A shrewd inspection of some of
the “laborers” suggests that, had the list
of “protected occupations” not been pub-
lished, the professions represented would
have been wider still.
* * * *
“T.” on the recruiting position:
As soon as recruiting commenced it was
seen that the State quotas suggested were un-
necessary for the raising of the first 20,000.
Enthusiasm spread to all parts of Australia
On the day the enrolment books were opened
in Sydney the Victoria Barracks were besieged
by an eager crowd of men. Over 3600 men
volunteered on the 11th in that city; by the
20th more than 10,000 men had enrolled in
Sydney. Enrolments at some of the capitals
were soon so far in excess of the number re-
quired that the official attitude became some-
what discouraging. Men were rejected because
they had not had any previous military training.
The Minister decreed that “only single men
need apply.” The medical inspection, too, was
most rigorous. A man had to be a perfect
specimen to pass the doctors. Very trifling
physical defects or slight doubts were a ground
for rejection.
But all that was in 1914, as recorded
by Ernest Scott in Australia During the
War. There has been nothing like it
this time in capital cities, though country
places have done nobly—in N. S. Wales,
Wollongong, Broken Hill, Bathurst, Lis-
more and Wagga, and also Parramatta.
* * * *
“101”: Officers required when the first
batch of lads comes up for compulsory
training next year will be drawn from
those already in the militia. There will
be no lack of talent. I took over a signal
section from a colleague now in the 2nd
A.I.F. It included a professor of econo-
mics, a K.C., a country-town solicitor and
several youngsters with uni. honors in
various subjects.
* * * *
“Captain Pintle”: The affair of the
U.S. freighter Captain Flint recalls an
unsolved mystery of the last war
-—the disappearance of the 19,000-ton
U.S. Navy collier Cyclops. On March
4, 1918, she left Barbados for an east-
coast U.S. port, due nine days later, with
a crew of 200 and 50 passengers. On
March 12 she radioed
the Navy Depart-
ment that engine
trouble would delay
arrival, and nothing
more was ever heard
of her. Weather was
perfect. A thorough
search was made,
and post-war infor-
mation showed that
no enemy U-boat or
mine could have
been anywhere near
her course. Yet on
March 29, 16 days
before her loss was
announced, a Portu-
guese newspaper at
Rio printed a notice
of a requiem mass for one of the pas-
sengers, “drowned when the U.S.S.
Cyclops was lost at sea.” The mass was
never said, the priest did not know the
passenger, and the editor could not recall
how the notice came to be inserted in
his paper.
* * * *
“Prop”: The idea of dropping leaflets
over Germany in war-time isn’t new to
the present war. General Swinton, who
originated the “caterpillar machine-gun
destroyers” (alias tanks), was instrumen-
tal in distributing propaganda from the
air in Oct., 1914. At that time the Ger-
mans were telling anybody interested that
they were fighting a defensive war. Swin-
ton drafted a leaflet in German to coun-
teract this idea. The Paris office of the
“Daily Mail” printed off 25,000 copies,
and these were dropped behind the Ger-
man lines by the R.F.C. These were
intended to be the first of a regular series
of bulletins, but when the time came for
the issue of the second lot official ap-
proval was withheld.


BE YOUNG
and VIGOROUS AGAIN
doctors say your virility and vig-
our depend greatly an your Hor-
mone Gland*. 821 Gland Tonic
Tablets contain genuine glandular
extract. Will definitely rejuve-
nate you and banish weakness.
Price 10/6. Write TO-DAT.
MEN!
5
w
T.JONES £ CO
CHJEMIST, 319 George Street, Sydney.
all
about
mo#
Be a Motor
Mechanic
LET OUR CHIEF ENCINEER
SHOW YOU THE WAY
& FREE m
Lf|fv IT TELLS YOU HOW VOU CAN
” LEARN MOTOR MECHANICS IN
YOUR SPARE TIME AT HOME . . .
Successful correspondence students from
all parts of Australia have written and
thanked us for what we have done for
them. One wrote: “I must thank you for
putting me where I am to-dav. My pay
is now £6/6/- a week.” Another: “Since
getting my Certificate my wages are over
£8 a week.” Another: “It was your
Diploma that placed me in a good posi
tion as motor mechanic.”
The Course is ESSENTIAL to every
OH NEK-DRIVER as well as to every
prospective motor mechanic and to every
man desiring to set up in a GARAGE
BUSINESS of his own.
We have placed hun
dreds of young men
on the road to success.
If you are mechanically inclined, and are
dissatisfied with your prospects in life—
DO NOT MISS THIS CHANCE.
Others have done it, and why not Vou V
Excellent openings exist for APPREN-
TICES, MECHANICS. MOTOR EI.EC-
TRICIANS. and Motor Repaid EXPERTS.
Good money can also be made working
privately on car repairs, and “tuning up."
But you must he equipped with the
proper training—you must be acquainted
with ATI, the parts—you must KNOW
your .job.
IMPORTANT
POST THIS COUPON FOR FREE BOOK
The Chief Engineer, AUSTRALIAN TECHNICAL SCHOOLS,
The Assembly Hall, Jamiesson St., Sydney.
Please send me (without obligation) your i'roe Book, “All About Motors,” and tell
me all about your special oiler of Home Study Training and how I can quality.
Marne
Occupation Age
Address
TV.M.II (Write Plainly)
THE FLYING COLUMN
Going with the Wind.
The aerial policy o£ this Common-
wealth Government is a gusty business.
Whatever wind blows from Britain, Mr.
Menzies seems to go with it.
Immediately after the outbreak of war
the Civil Aviation Department announced
a plan for enabling young pilots to
secure preliminary training which might
ultimately take them into the R.A.A.F.,
if needed. Almost at the same moment
it was decided to send a small aerial
expeditionary force to Britain —150 pilots,
250 gunners, observers and radio men
and an administrative staff of 150. It
was said vaguely that “if it were found
possible” ground staffs of 2500 might
be sent later.
Before the month was out it apparently
was found possible, because the size of
the force was suddenly increased to
3000-odd. Almost simultaneously, the
Government acquiesced in the British and
Canadian scheme for turning Canada into
a training ground for military fliers. Not
till Mr. Fairbairn, the Minister of Civil
Aviation—the only man with a competent
knowledge of war flying in the Ministry
—had arrived in America were the full
details announced.
Mr. Menzies then said that the pro-
posed expeditionary force would not be
sent abroad. The nine 21-ton Short
Sunderland flying battleships which were
to form our own first line of defence
are, however, to remain in England and
to be manned with Australian personnel.
In addition, 17 officers and 166 airmen
will be sent to form an Australian general
reconnaissance squadron.
For the rest, Australian plans have
been completely recast as a result of
conferences with the British Government.
They now run to “utilising our own
resources as fully as possible so as to
make the maximum contribution to the
big training scheme which is being dis-
cussed in Canada. As the Empire train-
ing scheme develops, recruits in Aus-
tralia will be brought to ine point where
they can be sent to Canada for advanced
training.”
While Commonwealth Aircraft will
continue to make the Wirraway advanced
trainers under United States makers’
licenses —and the scheme for building
Bristol Beauforts is gone ahead with,
a new factory will be established to make
American twin-row Whitney Pratt
engines. The reason for this is that
the factory will be able to supply re-
placement parts for the .Lockheed Hudsons
which the Government has ordered from
the United Staes, and which it now expects
to receive when the American Legislature
makes its decision on the Neutrality Act.
The engines are big sisters to the Wirra-
way engines. A factory to make re-
placements to 100 machines seems a
superfluity. But, anyway, its existence
seems to presage an expansion along
lines which will make the R.A.A.F.
equipment mostly American, instead of
entirely British-Australian as it should be.
It means not only that emergency but
future machines will be of United States
origin. According to Mr. Menzies: —■
This factory will form part of the huge
air-expansion programme of the Empire,
and provides further evidence of the great
part the Commonwealth is destined to
play—and indeed is expected to play —in
assisting the Empire to win the war.
Meanwhile, the conference for the
development of the Imperial scheme is
sitting in Canada. It has been announced
that this will probably begin with the
provision of £216,000,000 Australian to
provide Canada with aerodromes.
Further costs will probably double that
amount. Half the money will come
from Britain, a quarter from Canada and
a quarter from the Commonwealth and
Maoriland together.
Mr. Mackenzie King, Prime Minister
of Canada, remarked that the scheme
“might well mean that the final victory
would be shaped on Canadian soil.” It
certainly will mean that Canada will
emerge from the war a great air Power.
Mr. Menzies should pause before he
commits Australia finally to this arrange-
ment. Had it been suggested a couple
“Cock ’er up a bit , boys."
of months ago that Australia and
Maoriland should spend £50,000,000 in
providing aerodromes in Australia and
Maoriland and a few tens of millions
more in training fliers, somebody in the
Cabinet would have dropped down dead.
But at a whisper from London and with-
out any Parliamentary sanction, the thing
is done.
Most of the money will go to equip
Canada, to pay Canadian workmen and
to buy machines from Uncle Sam and
Canadian factories. The first order to
U.S.A. is to run to about 1500 aeroplanes,
costing round £45,000,000 Australian —if
eager manufacturers do not put up their
prices to meet war conditions. And that
they may do, since they are well outside
the range of British Empire anti-profiteer-
ing legislation and know that they have
war-time buyers by the short hairs.
A hundred millions spent on aerial
development in Australia and Maoriland
would make these Dominions safe from
invasion in the air and put them in the
way of becoming great air Powers. Par-
liament will no doubt point it out.
“Rip Cord”: Those “Planes of Yester-
year” (B. 4/10/’39j remind me. The
old 5.E.5 used for reconnaisance on the
Western Front had high cockpit walls
that needed a giraffe for an observer.
One was experimentally equipped with a
plate-glass floor up for’ard. Somewhere
over enemy lines the observer felt his feet
go from him. He found himself dangling
in space suspended on a half-inch thick
pine plank, while the “floor” went hurt-
ling earthward. Luckily the pilot had
turned for home, and no casualty was
sustained until landing, when the observer
slid off his seat. Only his breeches were
torn.
* % * #
“Rigger”: No doubt this war will pro-
duce as many curious experimental
designs of aircraft as did the last. One
outstanding job I recall was constructed
at Mudros in 1917 by the late Sir John
Alcock and a flight-sergeant. It was a
cross between a Sopwith Camel and a
Nieuport, and gave the pilot an un-
obstructed view ahead over the top wing.
More would have been heard about it,
but a crash wiped it off before the end
of 1918.
* * * *
“Aldis”: Technical arrangements for
W/T communication must have been
different in the squadrons “Propeller”
(B. 1/11/’39) knew. I saw both R.N.A.S.
and R.A.F. service in the Eastern Med.,
where our 9’s and 9 Acks always had
the Sterling |in. spark-gap outfit in the
rear cockpit. It was handled by W/T
operators (boys of 17 mostly), commis-
sioned observers, and non-commissioned
observers and gunners, never by pilots.
A wireless amateur of pre-war vintage, I
often wondered about that spark-gap ex-
posed to the petrol vapor fumes with
which those machines invariably reeked,
but I don’t remember an instance of fire
in the air from that source, although it
is more than likely there were some.
The difference in
installation must
have been that be-
tween R.N.A.S. and
R.F.C. practice.
* *
“Aren-As”: There
is much talk in the
U.S.A. of a four-
bladed propeller, the
makers claiming that
with constantly in-
creasing horse-power
it has become neces-
sary to increase the
effective blade area.
We had four-bladed
propellers made of
laminated wood
the new ones are
aluminium alloy—on
DH9’s, 9As and
sundry other craft in
the last war. They
were more than
troublesome if a few
Vickers shots
through the prop
field lagged owing to
damp cartridges. If
one blade lost a tip
there was terrific
vibration, which all
but unseated the
engine from the
bearers. I recall an
instance where that
did happen and the
engine heaved itself
from the fuselage,
the pilot getting the
engineless craft
down with the tail
bouncing about like
a cork.
“Don”: An English aviation magazine
illustrates a trailer, towed by a tractor
and used to replenish the racks of a
heavy bomber. In my job as armorer
in the last shindy we didn’t enjoy such
luxuries. Bombs were simply lugged
from the dump on the shoulders. Two
of us could handle the 230-pounder type,
and that fortunately was the largest size
used in the squadrons I served with.
Only time I had the use of a rubber-
tyred trailer was at my pass-out exam,
at the gunnery school. After a few
months’ class instruction with dummies
the time came for the real thing. The
scared pupil was sent out about 400yds.
to the middle of the ’drome with a 65-
pounder, exploders and detonator on a
small handcart. Out there he loaded
the bomb, and returned with it to the
instructor for examination. The idea was
that if he wrongly screwed in the pistol
with the striker he would wipe out only
himself and not the rest of the class. It
was a mighty relief to get back on that
initial test, but months after, when we
were handling the things on the real job
in the Eastern Med., familiarity had bred
contempt.
* * * *
“Howie Wing”: U.S. magazines carry
advertisements for a “pioneer low-cost
private airplane, now priced from only
$lO9B and giving 25 or more miles to
the gallon.” On the instalment plan the
’plane may be had for $366 deposit. And
free instruction by men with a Govern-
ment license is offered.
* * * *
“Ek D.”: Wonder if anybody remem-
bers the first Sydney attempt to put a
machine into the air—Boxing Day, 1895?
The machine was a gasbag-wing affair with
steam engine underneath ; the test was
made on the cliffs of Clifton Gardens,
then known as Chowder Bay. Ferries took
people there all day, till there were 15,000
spectators on the cliffs, and the harbor
was thick with boats. After waiting most
of the day, the onlookers saw the con-
traption skim down the tramrails from
which it was to take the air. Fire and
steam belched from it, but it appeared
to have nobody on board. And, so far
from wanting to fly, its main objective
seemed to be to get underground as
quickly as possible. It finished up on
the rocks in a few seconds.
* * * *
“8.J.C.”: The flying theorists are talk-
ing a lot these days—in between their
chatter of bomb-loadings and manoeu-
vrability of fighting ’planes—of the prob-
able advantages of “pusher airscrews”
over the common tractor propellers. They
jook to a problematical slight thrust re-
placing air drag over the wings at higher
speeds. One of the chief problems to be
overcome before pusher screws can be
adopted to any great extent is that of
cooling the engine. Tractor and pusher
screws in tandem have been suggested,
but even then six such pairs are supposed
to be the practicable limit. That would
need 12 engines. Fifteen pounds might
be carried per unit of horse-power, so that
such craft would have a flying weight
of about 250 tons and could carry 200
passengers. That, at present, seems the
largest heavier-than-air craft possible, but
there’s no telling in this flying game.


V\\V
SV.WW
COMBINING handsome appearance
with sturdy and durable construc-
tion, these Hardy "Service" watches
are the ideal for everyday use, yet
their modern style makes them suit-
able for any occasion. The beauti-
fully fashioned, imported cases are
highly finished, dustproof, and un-
tarnishable. Fitted with a fully
jewelled Swiss Lever movement from
a famous maker, each watch is a
meticulous timekeeper and will give
the enduring service for which Hardy
Watches are famed. Prices are sur-
prisingly moderate and each watch
carries Hardy Bros'. 12 months'
guarantee.
Men's Metal Case,
Stainless Steel Back,
e
Ladies' Stainless Steel
Case, with Silk Cord,
£5/10/-.
w
Write for fully
illustrated FREE
Catalogue
TH| l*M *l*6 610*01 *
HAR!>Y BROS. LTD.
338 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
TELEPHONE M 3461
"RADIO”
The world-wide technical
authority of amateur short-
wave and experimented radio.
The Annual Subscription is the Aus-
tralian equivalent of 3 dollars 50 cents
American, acceptable at “The Bulletin
Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
“Radio” is published monthly in Bps
Angeles (U.S.A.) under date as of the
following month; 10 issues yearly,
including special annual number; the
August and September issues (which
would normally appear in July and
August) are omitted.
Copies are mailed to subscribers direct
from T T .S.A.
Read “Radio regularly and lccep m
advance of the times. . „ „
“Radio” is the fastest selling of all
’•adio magazines—on the bookstall
to-day, sold out to-morrow.
Subscribe direct and be sure of
your copy 1
NORTH OF
TWENTY- EIGHT
The Not-so-wicked North
“X.T.”: Queensland, for its size and
openness and the variety of its popu-
lation, must be one of the most law-
abiding States in the world. Yet punish-
ment is mild ; there is no death penalty,
and at least one Judge follows the prac-
tice of remanding convicted defendants
under good behavior wherever possible.
Brisbane, with a population round
300,000, reported only three murders last
year, and Charleville, Cloncurry, Long-
reach and other western districts had
none. Around Longreach there were
only 22 thefts worth bringing before a
Court; Cloncurry dealt with 18 ; Ipswich,
a sizable city, hadn’t one arrest for theft
per week.
Western districts, over which sheep,
cattle and horses range, mostly had sheets
clean of stock-stealing.
But there is evidently a new type of
“criminal” growing up —the kind which
offends not so much against the indivi-
dual as against the bureaucracy. Out
of 35,000 cases brought before the Courts
last year, 9258 were for offences against
traffic and transport laws, 3322 for
offences against the railways, 290 for
fractures of local-authority regulations,
330 for gambling, 1762 for breaches of
industrial and factory laws, 234 for wire-
less derelictions —mainly not taking out
licenses —765 for revenue delinquencies.
Beating transport laws is almost as
popular as having one over the eight—
-10,700 drunks were brought up. But the
drunks enjoy an advantage. Half their
number jumped bail.
With equal voting rights, only 1500
ladies fell into the clutches of the police
in the whole State, and 1100 made their
bows in the metropolis—half for in-
dulgence in mother’s ruin. In some dis-
tricts, female crime is almost a thing of
the past. Charleville could find only nine
female “convicts” —six for miscellaneous
offences, three for liquor-law breaches.
Longreach had only 11 —six for not hav-
ing wireless licenses, two for breaches
of industrial laws, one for having a
neglected child, a single lass for “drunk
and disorderly.”
Among 1,000,000 people, the Supreme
Court sent only one male to imprison-
ment for life, and sentenced 66 other
men and three women to other terms of
imprisonment. About an equal number
were released on bond.
Darwin Has Its Troubles
“D.”: When I was in Darwin about a
year ago the town was stirring out of its
sleep. It was noised in the pubs that
the Government was about to start spend-
ing the best part of a million on civil
and defence works, and that “the front
door” was to become “the golden
gates.” And, for once, pub chatter and
mulga wires were correct.
Nearly a million to be spent in Dar-
win! That got them all—small
contractors, laborers and trades-
men, drifters and idlers. From
all over the N.T., as well as from
southern States, they began
heading for Darwin, drawn by
thoughts of good wages for the
year or two they intended to
stay, and of hours of ease drink-
ing cool beer under shady palms.
But Darwin doesn’t conform to
commonly-accepted notions of
a tropical town. It is barely
out of the pioneering stage, and
there’s white labor with an
active trade-union to support
it. And early enthusiasm has given
place to “industrial discontent,” which
has taken the familiar form. Labor
is growling about everything it can
find to growl about. Contractors
are yelling for more men and material.
One, who has gone to the expense of
arranging to fly 150 men from Sydney,
is raising the roof because he can’t get
half of them.
The president of the Master Builders
and Contractors protests that delivery of
building materials is delayed because
shipping is scarce ; because the old jetty
can’t “operate at even its meagre full
capacity,” and because “bad organisation
in the railway yards” leads to congestion
and careless dumping of goods. Also, suit-
able men can’t be got from the local
unemployed, and southern workers have
been officially advised not to come to
Darwin without the guarantee of jobs
and return fares.
The Administrator pleads that he is
afrajd of having to repatriate large num-
bers of workers when their jobs cut out.
The union secretary says he has 95 un-
employed on his books, and the Builders
and Contractors have never approached
him.
Meanwhile employed and unemployed
are living, eating and sleeping where they
can —on luggers, on beaches, in tents and
under trucks and trees. Strikes have be-
come frequent circumstances. Worst of
all, works may be further delayed while
a town-planner from Brisbane lays out.
the town—a job that should and could
have been done years ago.
“Zedo”: A. M. Blain, by profession
a surveyor, has during the five years he
has been an M.H.R. consistently fought
for the planning of Darwin on lines suit-
able for tropical living. For years he
has sought to secure the services of
R. A. Mclnnis to do the job. The
matter has now been arranged, and Mc-
lnnis will shortly spend some months
on the work. It should be fairly easy.
Darwin streets are wide and the terrain
is level. There is a long sweep of
esplanade, with Fort Hill for a
picturesque feature and numerous small
coves under moderately high cliffs abut-
ting the business centre. The one bar
to complete freedom in planning is
military and naval occupation.
* * * *
“Eungella”: The civic fathers of
Mackay (N.Q.) are still sitting about their
foreshores waiting for merchant ships to
come home to the million-pound harbor
which Mr. Forgan Smith secured for his
faithful constituency. The Sydney Star
made an official entrance on August 28,
when the Premier christened the new en-
closure, but since then there has been
little doing. The Steamship Owners’
Federation wrote that its members
would not consent to berth ships in the
millionaire dock until floating fenders
were placed alongside the berths. The
board hastened to comply. Next came
a letter from Overseas Steamship repre-
sentatives saying that they would not con-
sider the harbor safe till sea leads were
installed and a lighted buoy stuck off
Slade Island Reef. In no time the sea
approaches looked like the Champs
Elysees on a gala night. But asT write
30,000 tons of sugar has been lightered
out to Flat Top as of yore, and only
11,000 tons has been shipped from the
harbor. Interest is a hundred-odd a day.
* * * *
“L”: Among the horde of young-
sters who have come down from Alice
Springs to Adelaide or gone up to Dar-
win to enlist, there’s one very real Aus-
tralian, young Ben Nicker. Ben’s father
used to be one of the biggest hawkers in
Western Queensland, but, finding the
place becoming too noisy for him, he
moved out to the O.T. line. There young
Ben and other Nickers were born, and
“You keep your mind off politics, Alfie. Look where that Austrian 'ouse-
painter's landed ’ imself .”
fine physical advertisements they are for
the Centre. By habit Ben is almost as
much Arunta as white. He speaks the
local tongue as a second native language,
and any blackfellow who can teach him
anything about tracking, hunting or
general bushwork is in the champion
class. And I hope enemies who get in
front of his rifle-sights haven’t got too
many dependants.
* * * #
“Philp”: Recruits for the second
A.LF. are drifting in from as far south
as the Finke, from the Kimberleys
(W.A.) and from Alexandria in the east.
Among them are splendid horsemen, rifle-
men and others who can turn their hands
to almost any job. The Territory’s quota,
a field-artillery battery of four 18-
pounders, with five officers and 111 other
ranks, is to consist of half from the
militia or permanent forces and the re-
mainder from civilians and ex-service-
men.
* * * *
“Scat”: I heard that Fanny Haynes,
of Brocks Creek (N.T.), intended shutting
her pub. and retiring. She has changed
her mind and I’m pleased for two
reasons. If Fanny had closed down
there wouldn’t have been much of
Brocks left —her Federation Hotel, the
police station, a couple of houses and
the rusting machinery and dumps of the
old Zapopan and liowley mines com-
prise most of the settlement. Then,
Annie Fisher, of Mataranka, having passed
on, I think Fanny is the last of the
grand old ladies who clung through thick
and thin to their pubs in the small settle-
ments along the Darwin-Birdum rail-
way. She has spent most of her life
at Brocks, backing battlers with stores
and hoping against hope that one of the
shows in which she was interested would
come good. It was a big disappoint-
ment for her when the Howley was
turned down by the Mt. Isa concern.
She’s still game, however, and if you
drop in for a bottle on the run to Dar-
win she will give you the prospects
and history of the surrounding district
and its people. Her first husband was
T. G. Crush, one-time member for the
N.T. in the S.A. House, who said
prophetically that if the Darwin-Adelaide
railway were not completed “provincial-
ism would assert itself and each neigh-
boring State would make an effort to
have °the line diverge into its own
territory.”
“E.H.M.”: For many years it has been
known that bore-water supplies have
been diminishing in Western Queensland.
No attempt has been made at real con-
servation, but “a conservative estimate
has been prepared. According to Lands
Minister Pease, the wastage runs to
73,000,000,000 gallons a year.
It is not a question of giving more
water, but of taking care of what Nature
has given us. Anything you get ior nothing
you do not prize; so, people don’t attempt
to put in a pipe or drain....ln 23 years,
sufficient has been discharged from bores
to fill Sydney Harbor 23 times. To-night
it is flowing as well as during the last ZU
or 30 years —and going to waste.
He might have added that this is
happening on a domain over which the
Government has control, whose re-
sources belong to the people and which
depends for continued productiveness
on bore water.
* * * *
“Lid”: The North Westralian sheep
country used to be the most thriving part
of the State. As consequences of the long
drought, the number of sheep shorn dur-
ing the past five years has decreased by
3,000,000; there is “an alarming short-
age of young sheep” ; ewes are too old
to breed, and the result of 30 years’
breeding has been lost. The wool-clip
in 1937 was 57 p.c. below that of 1934,
and the pastoral industry is reckoned to
have lost £5,500,000, while State revenue
is down £150,000. The Minister of
Agriculture has made the estimates.
* * * *
“Dungeness”: A Buick car of 1925
vintage with a mileage of well over
100,000 carries Trooper Ted Heathcock,
of the N.T. mounted police, and his
missus on a little visiting during his
furlough. When they get back to their
Borroloola quarters from Melbourne
via Adelaide and Alice Springs another
8000 will have been added. They looked
in at Charters Towers (N.Q.) to see one
of Ted’s old Gallipoli pals. Mrs. Heath-
cock is the lady who received a mes-
sage per black boy that a man was
seriously ill in a camp 75 miles away.
Her husband was out on patrol, so she
left a note, set out with the abo, and
gave the sick man first-aid which kept
him alive. Her husband followed her
after sending a radio call to the Flying
Doctor at Darwin ; between them they
cleared a runway near the camp, and
Dr. Fenton landed in time to take the
patient back to hospital. But little jobs
like that are just part of the day’s work
for Mrs. Heathcock.


HOTEL
GRAND CENTRAL
151 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Top of Barrack Street.
Every comfort and detail assured guests.
Rates Per Day.
Single Room, from 5/6
Double Room, from 11/-
Room and Breakfast, from .. .. 7/6
Double Room and Breakfast, from 15/-
For rooms with Hot and Cold Water:
Single 1/- and Double 1/6 extra.
Modern a la carte Dining Room.
G. C. C. McKAY, Manager.
Telephone: BVVISSI.
Telegrams:
“Grancentral,” Sydney.
'll
r-1
r~
msf
£??
I
'
iLJj
ONGKONG
Wonderful holiday tour to this
port of mystery and charm, by
way of Salamaua, Rabaul, Cebu,
Manila and Hongkong—return-
| ing via the same ports, with
additional calls at Saigon and
Madang. The m.v. “NEP-
TUNA” sails regularly from
(Melbourne and Sydney. Excel-
lent cuisine and service—sports
1 deck, swimming pool, etc. . . .
t
1 Fares are free of exchange.
i
| At your request we shall be
pleased to forward folder No. 78.
BUMS,PHILP
& CD. LTD.
I 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: 87901
312 Collins Street, Melbourne.
128 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Prudential Building, Wellington, N.Z.
hw
I
1 /
. ... ..V
mm
9
£kw/n
f*s pp^S
-' '
'
: :
PWw
DANKS
y\Mmw*>
FOR EVERY TYPE Of FIAT t, DWELLING !
am
»*
m
m
HERE ARE FITTINGS
SUPPLIED TO
87 MACLEAY REGIS
MODERN FLATS,
} POTTS POINT, SYDNEY,
' and many similar blocks
of flats.
“Acme” Window Sprint/ Sash
balances dispense with box
frames and weights.
Hot Water
Supply
throughout
by “White
Rose” C.l.
Sectional
Boiler at ap-
proximate
cost of two
hot baths for
one penny.
mmmmm
■ill
,
* i •=
ft m£o
Rebated In-
terior plated
doer furniture
(above).
Antique Bronze
knocker com-
bination with
Etas Mortice
Right Latch
(left).
Jit.
n
■ n
z i
m I
ARCHITECTS:
Mr. E. C. Pitt (deceased)
and >lr. C. C. Phillips.
BUILDERS:
Messrs. Alex. Speers and
Sons Pty., Ltd.
flr
im
For Entrance 'Doors Brass
Chromium Plated Crash
Bars and heavy brass C.P.
Door Kicks.
■‘Neo-Chrome” streamlined
Kitchen Cocks for hot and
cold water.
■‘Eastfold” window openers
on large windows.
Crane (Eng.) “Pall Mall” Radiators
provide central heating with circulating
hot water from “White Rose” Boiler.
An average size room, is heated jor 24
hours for about twopence.
: '
* e
l c
,w* !
“Bush,” Silent Chrome
Plated Pedestal Pan
F lushers and “Neo-
Chrome” Bath Sets,
showing compactness
and absence of un-
necessary fittings.
Call and inspect or write for catalogue of “Modern Home Fittings.”
JOHN DAWKS AMD SON
PROPRIETARY LIMITED ( INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA I
324-330 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
391-403 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
’PHONE: M6SOS.
’PHONE: M 2381.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally
W.J.W.: Idea’s all right; but the last four
stanzas merely repeat the first L.H.: Tame.
L.M.: A church paper, perhaps V.T.:
Why bring Pluto into it?... Try
elsewhere' E.J.W.: The cat comes home
J. : Quite a pleasant “Little Thing”....
K. : “To the Editor” was painful to read.
M.W.: Both have their moments
J.D.G.: • Wild-eyed Jack will be developing
wild ears if you keep on rhyming him with
“fact”... .N.8.W,: Keep at it; but beware
(1) of bathos and (2) of “Euterpe” C.K.P.:
Patchy. And what’s it all about? ... .E.L.R.:
That wax model has whiskers... .N. 8.: A
lightweight... .J.A.C.: Can’t reprint P.R.:
Should interest a women’s paper... .M.W.:
It’s about time the R.S.P.C.A. put that
PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
broken-hearted dog out of its misery A.B. :
Just a vague, sad noise... .M.K.: Those plati-
tudes about “how epical the toil”, ruin it....
E.A.N.: Not here L.M.8.: It’s well said,
but it’s too long and its form’s against it....
J.T.N.: What gave you that impression?
8.N.T.: It needs better treatment.... G .N.T.:
“I’m not optimistic.” G00d.... V.G.R.: A
daily might consider it... .G.N.R.: Small con-
solation that you inflict it upon us with “the
deepest regret”... .8.F.R.: Loosely put to-
gether C.L.V.: Study your markets....
N.R.N.: F.a.q. descriptive writing, but there’s
no p10t... .T.H.R.: Piffle... .S.F.: Doesn’t hit
the mark... .8.G.R.: Another disappointment.
. ...8.T.R.: “When Murphy Comes to Mow-
galup” we lock our safe and bolt for cover.
.... D.E.W.: Suggest you move to a desert or
somewhere if that’s what you do on rainy days.
.... C.D.C.: That “slice from the human
pudding” was cut and went stale years ag0....
F.D.L.: “Christmas Cake” needs some ginger.
B.T.R.: They belong to America....
C.L.F.: “Ragchinpot Yes, an example of cubist
writing,” is comment enough in itself
C.L.R.: “What should a writer do to estab-
lish himself?” Write we 11... .H.F.T.: Neither
bark nor bite in “A Dog’s Diary”... .8.G.E.:
Fair, but most untimely... .F.W.: Idea all
right, but the characters don’t move with it
. ...C.R.: Improves as it goes, but it doesn’t
go far enough F.1.L.: Might interest a
motoring magazine F.D.: Our oldest
enemy H.H.8.: Interest too local and people
too sketchy T.N.R.: Even the marines
wouldn’t swallow that 0ne....8.T.: Elsewhere
perhaps.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
W.J.M.: Old gag N.S.: You’re just
scratching along in an aimless fashion C. 8.:
Sent back for repairs A.J.T.: You’ve a long
way to travel M. 8.: Takes this week’s booby
prize A.P.K.: Didn’t live up to the praise
you gave it in the covering letter R. 8.: A con-
fusing jungle of misplaced lines F.E.: Book
us up when you have finished your studies.
. ...T.R.: The heavyweights are now fighting
it out in the w.p.b R.L.: Low did the
same cartoon 25 years ago, except that the
Kaiser appeared in the picture instead of
Hitler... .G.H.: It never left the starting-post.
. ...E.J.: We wasted several precious minutes
trying to puzzle it 0ut....P.P.: Well enough
set out, but the linework is harsh and ugly.
J.R.C.: Our door has long been barred
and bolted against that bathroom joke
M.S.: Gave us the jimjams... .R.8.A.: Gags
need to be a lot brighter... .P.W.M.: Pictorial
plea for dry canteens should suit a cold-tea
rag G. 5.8.: The first of its kind, but a
feeble first D.D.: It never got a look-in. ...
E.M.A.: Don’t like the gents with the inscribed
balloons tied to their lips... .G.K.: A motley
collection of misfits J.A.J.: The lad should
be sent to an art school 1.H.: A good first
effort, though it was too stiff for publication.
G.S.: It might pass as an advertisement for
a hatter, but it’s of no use as a humorous
drawing A.D.E.: Horse looks like a cross
between a giraffe and a zebra.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
“Ek Dum”: A thing I like about the
English is the calmness with which they
blend the ages together. Just as war
broke out one of the dozens of ancient
dwellings advertised for sale was Chil-
ham Castle—built 1616, apparently to the
design of Inigo Jones, “five reception-
rooms, 12 main bedrooms, with 10
bathrooms, mainly in private suites.” The
rest of the amenities were “modern drain-
age, electric passenger lift, old Roman
keep, 700-year-old heronry, heavily-
timbered deer park of 300 acres and
ample garages.” And there was also for
sale a “twelfth-century gem of unusual
beauty” down in Surrey equipped with
“central heating, electric light and gas,
company’s water, modern drainage, swim-
ming pool and hard tennis court.” A
few paintings by Norman Lindsay, a
Frith model of Billy Hughes and a col-
lection of film-star autographs should
bring such places completely up to date.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Conquerors in modern wars
can’t replenish their countries’ art
treasures quite as easily as was the case
in former years. Recently reported from
Paris that the five miles of art in the
Louvre, including the Venus de Milo,
had been removed without a hitch to a
secret destination. All the other threat-
ened countries have taken equally strin-
gent precautions. This is the result of
air warfare, as much as anything. In
former wars generals like Napoleon justi-
fied their conquests largely on aesthetic
grounds, and the Napoleonic campaigns
in Egypt, Italy, Spain and other countries
helped to make Paris the world’s safe
deposit of old masters. Some of the great-
est of the Spanish section were obtained
through the Duke of Wellington’s Philis-
tinish prejudices. When told that there
were several cartloads of pictures in a
convoy proceeding from Madrid he
asked what they were used for. The
train of wagons fell behind, was snapped
up by one of Napoleon’s generals and dis-
patched to Paris with more care than
the wounded.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: “El V.” in “A Meeting
in Stockholm” (B. 25/10/’39) makes a
slight error in his statement that Gustav
V., Sweden’s octogenarian king, “mar-
ried Princess Margaret, daughter of the
Duke of Connaught, and, after she died,
a Battenberg princess.” It was his son,
the Crown Prince, who married the Prin-
cess Margaret (in 1905), and after her
death espoused Lady Louise Mount-
batten (in 1923). The present king’s
one and only consort was .Victoria,
daughter of the Grand Duke of Baden.
They were married in 1881 ; the Queen
died only nine years ago.
* * * *
“Ente Marid”: About the most shud-
dersome scheme produced by the war
seems to me to be the equipment of
London children with gaily-colored
Mickey Mouse gas masks. Still, the idea
has possibilities. If all our politicians
were to wear W. M. Hughes masks, plain
or colored, they would be sure of cheers
everywhere.
* * * *
“Ming”: Mention of the time factor
deciding the fortunes of twins (B.
25/10/’39) recalls a Maoriland case of
some years ago when a somewhat similar
contingency arose. A wealthy English-
woman in her will left her jewellery
to her first-born granddaughter. Two
years after her death daughters were
born to two of her sons on the same
date, one in London and the other in
M.L. The London youngster arrived
in the early morning and seemed the
winner, as the M.L. infant did not
arrive until much later in the day. Then
the matter of the difference in longitude
arose, and so close was the claim that
an expert in horology was called in. He
gave the verdict to young Maoriland ;
won by 27 minutes.
* * * *
“N.M.”: How the status of the
musician and poet has fallen since the
days of our ancestors! Clement Hosking,
of Sydney, recently went into details. Once
the minstrel was one of the most honored
members of the community; in fact, up
to the days of good Queen Bess a min-
strel of any importance always had ser-
vants to carry his instruments, and had
free entry to the royal palace at any
time. At any Court or church function
the minstrel (who was often also a. poet)
received higher payment than any other
official. And Pepys, at the time of the
Great Fire in London, wrote to a friend
about engaging a servant, stipulating that
he must have some knowledge of music
and be able to play at least one instru-
ment.


Foot Comfort for Sixpence .
Attach a piece of A’CORN SILK to your
corn _it will stick readily. Follow your usual
occupation. The corn won’t annoy you again;
in two days it will be DEAD. A sixpenny
packet of A’CORN SILK will remove every
corn whether big or little, hard or soft. All
chemists. Packed by FELTON, GRIMWADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors—James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, M. J Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly,.Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager—D. S. FOKiiLb. .
o< .11
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
I lie service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin t<? hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Motor mechanic, N.S.W., qualified, wants
job in garage.—slB4.
Queensland school-teacher wishes to corre-
spond with anyone with kindred interests.—
5212'.
To buy If 1 Were Your Father, by Seymour
Hicks.—sl4o.
Words of verse concerning the birth of the
first son of an outback couple, and contain-
ing the line “And there she lay, all thin and
pale and wan.” —5179.
Information Sought.
(1) Occupations of those who embarked dur-
ing the Great War of 1914-18 as members of
the A.I.F. and tho A.N. and M.E.F., includ-
ing nurses ? (2) Number of industrial dis-
putes in Australia in each of the years from
1914 to 1918, with the number of persons
directly affected, working days lost and esti-
mated loss of wages ? —5186.
(1) Professional 15,779, clerical 24,538, trades-
men 113,775, laborers 99,916, country callings
57,535, seafaring 6645, miscellaneous 14,229,
nurses 2074. (2) 1914: 337 disputes, 71,049
workers involved, 1,090,395 working days lost,
£551,228 loss of wages. 1915: 358 disputes,
81,292 workers involved, 583,225 working days
lost, £229,633 loss of wages. 1916: 508 dis-
putes, 170,683 workers involved, 1,678,930
working days lost, £967,604 loss of wages.
1917: 444 disputes, 173,970 workers involved,
4,599,658 working days lost, £2,594,808 loss
of wages. 1918: 298 disputes, 56,439 workers
involved, 580,853 working days lost, and
£372,334 loss of wages.
* * * *
(1) Area of Turkey? (2) Population ? (3)
What rights did Turkey obtain from the new
Straits Convention signed at Montreux in 1936 ?
(4) When did Kemdl Atatiirk die? (5) Are the
titles Pasha, Bey, Effendi and Hazretleri still
in use in Turkey? —sl96.
(1) Excluding marshes and lakes it is esti-
mated at 294,416 square miles, of which about
9257 square miles are in Europe. (2) At the
census of October 20, 1935, it was 16,158,018.
(3) The right of remilitarising the zone of
the Straits. This area was reoccupied by
troops on July 21, 1936. (4) November 9, 1938.
(5) No, they were abolished in 1934.
* * * *
(1) What is the area of Finland? *(2) Popu-
lation, males and females ? (3) Six largest
cities? (4) Chief religion? (5) Who is the
President of Finland, and when was he barn?
(6) When was Finland united to the Russian
Empire, as an autonomous Grand Duchy? 47)
When was it proclaimed am' independent and
sovereign State? —5141.
(1) 134,557 square miles,, excluding inland
water areas, which amount to an additional
13,254 square miles. (2) In 1937 there were
1,893,545 males and 1,941,117 females. (3)
Helsinki (Helsingfors) 293,237, Tampere (Tam-
merfors) 74,736, Viipuri (Viborg) 73,917, Turku
(Abo) 72,981, Vaasa (Vasa) 32,108, Oulu
(Uleaborg) 27,224. (4) Lutheran. (5) Kyosti
Kallio, born April 10, 1873. (6) 1809. (7)
On December 6, 1917. \
* * * *
Who was Malthas, and what was the doctrine
he expounded? —sll7.
Thomas Robert Malthus was an English
clergyman whose Essay on the Principle of
Population attracted great attention near the
end of the eighteenth century. He held that
population tends to multiply faster than the
means of subsistence, and that when this occurs
the lower or weaker classes must suffer from
lack of food. Therefore, unless the increase
of population is checked by prudential restraint,
poverty is inevitable; and the multiplying of
the population will be checked by poverty,
vice, or some other cause of suffering.
* * * *
Explanation of isobars and the part they play
in weather charts?- —5138.
An isobar is a line drawn through places
which have equal barometric pressure. All
stations shown on the weather chart furnish,
among other things, wind direction and baro-
meter reading at 9 a.m., the latter being cor-
rected to mean sea-level to bring it to the
common base. When these are plotted on the
chart, places with a barometer reading of 30
inches are joined by a line called the isobar,
and the same is done with those where the
reading is 30.1, 30.2, 30.3, etc., and 29.9, 29.8
and 29.7 inches, etc. The chart is thus covered
with concentric lines, similar to a contour map,
with the greatest readings in the centre of one
group and the lowest in the centre of another,
the former is called a “high” or high-pressure
system; the latter a “low” or low-pressure
system. It will be seen now that the winds
have conformed to the isobars, those about the
“high” pointing in an anti-clockwise direction
around the centre and conversely in regard
to the “low.” This is in obedience to a law
of nature, the respective directions being the
opposite in the Northern Hemisphere.
jjc ‘Jf, Vf. $
Production of staple fibre in the principal
wool-consuming countries of the world for
1937 and 1938 ?—5160.
Japan: 1937, 175,500,0001 b.; 1938,
366,000,0001 b. Germany: 1937,219,200,0001 b.;
1938,353,000,0001 b. Italy, 1937, 156,400,0001 b.;
1938, 177,500,0001 b. United Kingdom (figures
include rayon waste): 1937, 35,100,0001 b.;
1938, 33,900,0001 b. United States: 1937,
20,200,0001 b.; 1938, 29,800,0001 b. France:
1937, 11,300,0001 b.; 1938, 13,500,0001 b. Figures
for 1938 are provisional estimates.
* * * *
Figures showing convictions for drunkenness
per 10,000 inhabitants reveal the following:
NS.W. 113.5 convictions, Vic. 55.5, Q’land
105.8, S.A. 44.7, W.A. 63.3 and Tas. 16.6.
Are such figures a satisfactory test of the
relative sobriety of the inhabitants of each
State?— slB3.
The convictions for drunkenness taken by
themselves are not an altogether satisfactory
test, inasmuch as several important factors
must be taken into consideration.- The age and
sex constitution of the people, for example,
are by no means identical in all the States.
The ■ avocations of the people affect the result,
since persons engaged ,in strenuous callings
are, on the whole, more likely to indulge in
alcoholic stimulants than . those employed in
less arduous ones. The distribution of the
population is also a factor, the likelihood of
arrest or summons for drunkenness obviously
being greater in the more densely-populated
regions, while allowance must be made for the.
attitude of the magistracy, the police and the
public generally in regard to the offence. Due
account also must be taken of the effect of
legislation dealing with the limitation of hours
during which liquor may be sold in hotels.
* * * *
(1) When did the Third Fleet of convicts
sail from England to Australia? (2) When did
it arrive at Port Jackson? (3) What vessels
comprised the Third Fleet? (4) Number of
convicts embarked and landed? (5) What
vessels carried female convicts? (6) What
vessel carried the Irish convicts ? (7) Was the
Pitt one of the fleet? —5163.
(1) On various dates in February, March and
April, 1791. (2) On various dates from July 9,
1791, to October 16, 1791. (3) Mary Ann,
Matilda, Atlantic, Salamander, William and
Ann, Queen, Active, Albemarle, Britannia and
Admiral Barrington, with H.M.S. Gorgon,
which also carried 30 male convicts, as flagship.
(4) Figures are conflicting; and so far as can
be ascertained 1889 male and 172 female con-
victs were embarked in the 10 vessels of the
Third, Fleet, together with H.M.S. Gorgon, of 1
whom 194 men and four women died on the
way, and 1696 men and 168 women arrived in
Australia. (5) Mary Ann, Queen and Albe-
marle. (6) The Queen landed 126 male and
26 female Irish convicts. (7) No. It did not
sail until July 17, 1791, .and reached Port Jack-
son on February 14; 1792.
**. * *
Has any classification of depositors’ balances'
in savings banks with respect to Australia' as
a whole been carried out,? If so, where could
I procure a detailed analysis? —sl66.
No, the figures at present published by the
different savings banks do 'not- permit of a
fully-detailed analysis with respect to Australia \
as a whole, but information supplied to the
Royal Commission on Monetary and Banking
Systems for all savings banks except the Hobart
Trustee Sayings Bank shows that at June 30,
1936, the amount on deposit in accounts with
balances of less than £lOO represented 21 p.c.
of the total deposits; balances of over £lOO but
under £250, 21 p.c.; over £250 but under £5OO,
23 p.c.; over £5OO but under £lOOO, 25 p.c.;
while those of over £lOOO accounted for 10 p.c.
School, penny bank and small inoperative
accounts were excluded in determining these
percentages.
* jJc *
Is there any direct relationship , between the
shellfish known as toheroa in M.L. and the
pipi of the east coast of Australia ?— 5024.
The only direct relationship- between the
M.L. toheroa ( Amphidesma ventricosa) and
the eastern Australian pipi (Donax deltoides)
is that they are bivalves and sandy-beach-living
shellfish. Whereas the pipi shell .is about 2in.
long when fully grown, the toheroa in its adult,
stage reaches 6in. In composition, the animals
of the toheroa and pipi do not differ much
from each other, from the oyster or from other
shellfish, but the toheroa has been found to-
be rich in chlorophyll matter, which probably
accounts for its characteristic green color.
* * * *
(1) Where are appointments made to the
position of learner in the tea trade in Ceylon ?
(2) Would it be advisable for me to go to
Ceylon and look for such a position ? (3)
Prospects of obtaining such a position? —sl94.
(1) The majority of positions on Ceylon tea
estates are filled in London, where most of
the applicants have influential friends to further
their interests. (2) It would be inadvisable to
make the journey to Ceylon without first secur-
ing either a position or possessing favorable
recommendations. (3) On account of the war
there may possibly be a slight chance of securing
a position. Normally there would be little
hope. Write to the Ceylon Chamber of Com-
merce, Colombo.
* * * *
(1) Are nouns with a plural form, such as
scissors, shears, etc. followed by a plural or
singular verb? (2) I have read of two rules —
(a) to use “much” to qualify all participles,
present and past; (b) to use “very” for present
participles and “much” for past. Which is the
correct rule, or are both correct ? —4959.
(1) Scissors, shears and similar nouns have
only the plural form, and therefore require
a plural verb. (2) Neither rule is strictly correct.
“Very” and “much” can be used with some
past participles, but not with others. This
arises from the double nature of participles.
When a past participle is used in a compound-
verb form much or very much is required (“He
was much surprised by the news”); when a
participle is used like an ordinary adjective
it may be preceded by very alone (“His face
wore a very surprised expression”),.
* * * *
In what circumstances can an employer in
N.S.W. deduct money from the wages of his
employees 2—5109.
By the N. S. Wales Truck Act “the entire
amount of wages earned by any workman must
be paid to him in money” (notwithstanding
any contract to the contrary). Part payment
by the delivery of goods is illegal except in
certain cases, such as medical attendance, fuel,
tools, provender for horses, etc. This Act does
not apply to domestic servants or persons em-
ployed in connection with , agricultural or
pastoral pursuits.
* * * *
At what temperature is charcoal converted
into gas?— so36.
Charcoal reacts with air for the production
of producer gas at temperatures above lOOOdeg.
C. The temperature is kept as high as pos-
■ sible, subject to the necessity of avoiding
fusion of the ash. The most desirable operat-
ing temperature will thus vary somewhat in
accordance with the composition of the ash,
but will generally be something of the order
of 1200 deg. C.
* . * * *
(1) Qualifications, educational and physical,
for appointment to the N.S.W. Mounted
Police 2 (2) Are artificial teeth considered a
disability 2—5060.
(1) The maximum age for appointment is
27, preference being given to candidates be-
tween the ages of 20 and 24. Candidates for
• appointment to the, Mounted branch are re-
quired to be sft. lOin. in height and between
11 arid 12 stone in weight, with a minimum
chest measurement at full expansion.
The educational examination consists of writing
from : dictation from an , article, such. as the
leading article of a newspaper, and questions in
elementary arithmetic up to simple proportion
and simple practice. Candidates must be
competent to drive a motor-car and ride a
motor-cycle. (2) No.
t H* H*
Must permanent residents in Australia with
bank accounts outside Australia lodge a re-
turn under the National Security ( Securities )
Regulations 2—5200. ,
If you have any deposits, credits or balances
with banks overseas the Government reserves
the right to acquire them and pay you their
equivalent in Australian currency. Your .obliga-
tions depend at present on where your deposits
are situated. If they are with a bank or per-
son in sterling countries —United Kingdom or
any other part of the British dominions ex-
cept Canada, Newfoundland and Hong Kong
—you are at present exempted from the Aus-
tralian National' Security (Securities) Regula-
tions and do not require to render a return.
If they are • with a bank or person in non-
sterling countries—any place outside those pre-
viously mentioned and including Canada, New-
foundland'and Hdng Kong—you are required
to' rfender-a return. Forms for this return,
together i with directions for their completion,
are obtainable through" the banks or at the
chief offices of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia. ...
* * * *
(1) Can Angora rabbits be kept in Sydney 2
(2) Any market for their wool and how often
are the' rabbits clipped 2 (3) Are there any
books,on rearing Angora rabbits? —5185:
(I)Angora, rabbits can be kept only in the
• Counties of l Curnberland and Camden, and
then subject to a license being issued by the
Department; of Agriculture. A license is
granted provided- the- enclosures in which the
rabbits are - housed comply, with the regula-
tions laid down by the Agricultural Depart-
ment,- Sydney. ; . (2) T.here is no; open stable
market for Angora wool. Breeders usually
spin the wool and sell the. spun wool privately
or to some city' 1 drapery stores. The wool is
removed .with' scissors four times a year, an
average • yield being about 2oz. per clip. -(3)
The ,■ essential, points in housing, feeding and
general ca.re of Angora, rabbits are set out in
A. Sainsbury’s book Angora Wool Rabbits for
Profit in Australia' and New Zealand, from
Angus and Robertson, 7s. 6d.
' < sjc ■ sp
Was Thomas Davey, Lieutenant-Governor of
Tasmania from 1811. to 1817, ‘‘an uncouth
ruffian of’whom Tasmania was well rid when
he was recalled,”, as, some historian says? —
5189.
The actual value of Davey’s work in Tas-
mania is much disputed, but the quoted view;
of him is not altogether'a just one. His private 1
life was . indisputably beyond excuse, but his
administration of public affairs was on the
whole marked, by' commonsense. He threw
open the port of Hobart and encouraged farm-
ing, thus . providing, the . settlement with- twoi
wide avenues to prosperity. He did as much
building as Tiis limited-supply would allow, arid
his activities: against the ; bushranging gangs,
though at times illegal, proved an effective
check.
* • * * *
How to raise, cultivate and prune • the
waratah? I manage to raise the seedlings to
about an inch high and then they gradually die.
—5038.
The trouble experienced is fairly general
with young waratahs. They, as a rule, germi-
nate well, but damp off very easily. The
method usually adopted in raising them is to
sow the seed in pots filled with gritty wood-
ashes, which has had the dust removed from
it. This material will allow water to be given
fairly freely without keeping them too wet.
After germination, water should be given
sparingly. The young plants Should be allowed
to remain in the seed pots until they become
fairly hard, after which they can be carefully
taken out and potted up. Waratahs require
little pruning. Shorten back a branch or two
occasionally to keep them shapely.
Does Anybody Know?
Meaning of aboriginal name “Guyong”? —
5199.
Brief Answers.
K.G.S.: (1) Can’t say why, but this is the
stock remedy for soap that won’t harden: Make
over again. Put another, lot of tallow, caustic
and water on to boil. When it has boiled half
as long as is necessary to make soap, add the
first lot. When' all boils'again simmer till of
right consistency (probably .li hour). (2)
Proverbs xxx, 19 : “The way of an eagle'in. the
air; the way. of. a iserpentrupon a rock;, the
way of a ship in,the midst, of.the sea; and
the way of a man with a maid.” It answers :
“There be three things too wonderful
yea, four of which I ‘ know, n0t”.....
H.C.H.: Two cups sugar,'one cup water,, one
cup sweetened condensed milk, 3oz. melted un-
sweetened chocolate; one cup mixed nuts arid
raisins. Bring sugar and water to boil, add
condensed milk and boil slowly without stirring
till soft-ball stage is reached. Stir constantly,
add chocolate,' nuts, raisins, remove from stove
and beat till thick and creamy. Turn into but-
tered dish and cut when cold H.J.: Get m
touch with the marine superintendent of one
or more of the shipping cos. in Brisbane....
J.H.S.: In each tall glass put a sprig of fresh
mint, one lump of loaf sugar and a little
whisky. Crush with spoon. Set glasses on
tray in refrigerator and chill. Fill to the
brim with finely-shaved fee. Pour in whisky
according to taste. StiUgently with long-
handled spoon until glasses, are frosted, being
careful not to touch outside of glass with hands.
Put a tiny sprig of mint on each and serve.
. ...J.A.M.: Weight quoted is per ream....
A. (1) Pat O’Keefe .had four contests in.
Sydney. (2) He came to Australia as sparring-
partner to Tommy Burns in 1908, and acted as
such while here. Patsy Burke was Burns's
masseur; the then world’s heavyweight
champion supervised" his . own training.
(3) He went back to London in 1911,
and was still there when last heard .from
T.M.D.: (1) “Nonpareil” Jack Dempsey was
the first boxer to be recognised as middle-
weight champion of the world under Marquis
of Queensberry rules. He lost this title to Bob
Fitzsimmons at New Orleans on January 14,
1891. (2) Tunney’s last opponent was Torn
Heeney, whom he stopped in 11 rounds at New
York on July. 26, .1928,, .Tunney retired un-
defeated world’s heavyweight champion. He
lost only one decision during his whole career
—to Harry- Greb in 15 rounds at New York
on May 24, 1922... .T. 8.: This is due to
mildew probably. Remedies:' Moisten spots
with soap and salt and expose to sun. Bleach
with potassium permanganate W.H.A::
Ap'ply secretary Right Book Club, 343 Little
Collins-street, Melbourne S.C.: (1) Yes.
(2) No. ,The N. S. Wales Moratorium Act is
to be renewed for three years. This would not
affect your case, as you say the existing mort-
gage deed excludes the provisions of the Act.
. ~ .C.S.: Apparently the combined garage and
tool shed was a permanent building, the founda-
tions of which were built into the land. In
such circumstances it, technically, became part
of the land and you would have no claim on
the estate for the cost ‘ of' the - building..'..
F.D.: At least once a year in order to assert
your right of ownership. If you fail to do so
you may have trouble with unauthorised persons
claiming the right of public thoroughfare....
B, : No such address in Sydney or Mel-
bourne.- If • you can give the name of the
people you seek, further inquiries will be made.
J.D.B.W.: Consult Culpeper’s Complete
Herbal (Bs.), British Herbal and Family Phy-
sician (6s. 6d.), and Model Botanic Guide to
Health, 65. i.. R.A.S.: The English woman by
marriage-to an Italian became an Italian sub-
ject. If, however, her husband subsequently
became a naturalised British subject, she would
revert- to her British nationality K.F.: Get
in. touch with Taylors, Elliotts and Australian
Drug, Ltd., 154 Charlotte-street, Brisbane....
W.D.8.: A single-seater Folbot costs £l3 10s.,
a double-seater £l7 10s.; double-bladed paddles
are 17s. 6d.—obtainable from Paul and Gray,
82'Sussex-street, Sydney... .J.H.0.: The Timber
Workers” Union , has an award for sleeper-
cutters throughout N. S. Wales... .R.L-: 0)
After tossing-for choice of innings and through-
out the match the drying process shall be
carried out only on the instructions of the
umpires arid under their supervision; they are
to be. empowered to have the wicket dried,
without reference to the captains, at any time
they‘are,of the opinion that it is unfit for play.
(2). Since-it is embodied in the Laws of Cricket,
the. Australian Board of Control must adopt the
ruling... .K.F.: You would not find it pos-
sible to stretch a wire across the gorge without
sag. The.' suspension of the pipeline in the
manner suggested would be possible, and if a
sag of 90ft. were allowed a 1 in. diameter best
patent steel wire cable would be sufficiently
strong. ’ Owing to' the flexibility of such an
arrangement, the .use of ordinary down piping
soldered" together would probably not prqve
satisfactory. - A type of flexibly jointed pipe
would be preferable... .E.M.W.: Best Aus-
tralian One-act Plays, selected by Wm. Moore
and T. Inglis .Moore, price 3s. 6d.. .. .J.M.L.:
Botha and Burger’s Grammar of Afrikaans,
9s. 6d T.C.C.: (1) This investment would
be good provided yon knew the business and
were in a position to market the goods at the
proper time. If world conditions remain as
they are for long, prices are bound to rise.
(2) Brilliance, cut, color, cleanliness, size, and
many other factors. (3) With experience, this
defect can be seen easily. It takes years of
handling to know this trade. (4) Same as
yellow cold, except that it is alloyed in a
different'way. (5) Any first-class jeweller could
help G.W.S.: (1) The bulbul is insecti-
vorous, and eats fruit because enough insects
are not available. (2) It is doubtful whether
they would live in harmony with canaries,
which are of quite a different nature. The
bulbul is much more aggressive than the
canary. (3) Don’t think 50... . T.M.A.. Since
the declaration of war all postal articles
addressed to or received from overseas coun-
tries are subject to censorship...-R.W.: The
salaries of members of State Parliaments are
subject to both Federal and State income-tax.
Deductions are made in respect of election and
travelling expenses... .J.M.8.R.: Conan Doyle s
Round the Red Lamp, now out of print sepa-
rately, but many of the stories are m the
omnibus volume, 9s. 6d T.A.C.. The In-
stitute of Quantity Surveyors, New Zealand
Insurance Building,. 7? Pitt-street, Sydney...
TEW- On application the Superintendent,
Postal Services, G.P.0., Sydney, will forward
a form of registration. No vacancies at present
and prospect of appointment is rather remote.
Returned soldiers have preference.


BUILD UP MILK PRODUCTION WITH
o ~7JuL-CIaJL-Ch.
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
The most valuable mineral supplement for increased milk
production is Tri-cal-os Bone Flour, with its guaranteed
minimum content of over 32% phosphoric acid. Being bone,
Tri-cal-os is definitely palatable, and in its fine flour form
is easily digested and assimilated . . . Profitable milking can
be carried on for four or five months longer by giving
Tri-cal-os in the dry period
All particulars from Davis Gelatine, G.P.O. Box 35835, Sydney, N.S.W.
Repels the
Blowfly
Kills the
Maggot
O
£
Heals, soothes
the Wound
Does not form
a Scab
A preparation compounded exclusively from eucalyptus oils and
their by-products. Contains no mineral oil, no arsenic or coal tar
derivative. Neither washes nor dries out. Does not stain fleece.
PRICES: 1-gal. tins, 13/6; 4-gal. tins, 12/6 gal.
Write for free descriptive booklet.
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY., LTD.,
34-44 Jeffcott St., MELBOURNE, VIC.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL
SUPPLIES PTY., LTD.,
27 Bowen St., BRISBANE, Q’LAND.
W. K. BURNSIDE (N.S.W.) PTY.,
LTD.,
17-21 Myrtle St., CHIPPENDALE, N.S.W.
THE WESTRALIAN FARMERS, LTD.,
PERTH, WESTERN AUSTRALIA.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing for Reappraisement.
“Austral'’: Classing a small clip for
Government appraisement should not
necessarily be carried out on the same
principles as classing for auction. Unless
wool is offered for sale in reasonably
even lines, the grower stands to lose at
least fd. per pound and probably more.
Under appraisement, it is better to make
two four-bale lots that are even than one
eight-bale lot that is a wide blend. The
disadvantages that ordinarily attach to
star lots no longer exist, and conversely
the need for even lines without so much
regard for bulky lots cannot be over-
stressed.
Suppose a small clip has not been well
skirted in the shed, then there is scattered
burr and the fleece lines are mixed in
length and quality. If there were not
enough bellies for a bale, a couple of
baskets of locks may have been dumped
in. The balance of the locks may be
packed with the left-over pieces, and
there may be another mixed bale con-
taining crutchings, black and dead wool.
The appraisers list over 900 types. If
the fleece had been skirted free and the
stronger and shorter fleeces taken out,
it may have been put down as Type X—
free 64’s warp—worth, say, 34d. pet-
pound clean. Instead, it can be regarded
as only a topmaking type, and, because
of the doubtful percentage of other types
included, the value and yield must be
kept down to be safe.
The appraiser then looks at a mixed
bale. He may as an independent buyer
have specialised in spinners’ fleece types ;
now he has to decide what the unfamiliar
crutchings are worth, their yield and how
many pounds of them are in the bale.
There is the same process with black
wool. Finally he has to value dead wool,
which he has never handled in his life.
Working on the safe side, he puts down
an average price for the bale at 6d. per
pound.
The owner’s return is 6d. per pound,
less fd. per pound repacking charge and
the usual freight, insurance, commission
and other charges as well. That mixed
bale, after being appraised at 6d., is sent
to the committee’s repacking stores,
where it is sorted and each component
type added to similar wools. Eventually
the wool returns to the appraisement
floor, but this time in even types. Its
accurate value can be easily determined.
The grower does not share the profit.
Reciassing before sale would have cost
the grower to fd. per pound, but the'
contents of that one mixed bale alone
might have realised —locks dead 9d.
and black 13d.
Every woolgrower—whether he markets
one bag or 1000 bales—should realise
that if any or all of his wool is not in a
proper state for appraisement he will not
only get a lower nominal price per pound
but will have to pay for the repacking
of his wool so that it can be reappraised
at its true value.
Tails and Fly.
“Ghanam”: The C.S. and I.R. has
added to its range of blowfly experiments
a series of tests with 387 ewe lambs to
determine the influence of tail length on
fly strike.
The youngsters were divided into three
groups—very short tails, 2in. and 4in.
tails. The groups were run together from
November, 1938. During the first three
months there were no strikes in tailing
wounds. In the autumn of this year there
was a heavy fly wave. The lambs were
crutched in May. It was found that
49.2 p.c. of the short tails, 39.7 p.c. of
the medium tails and 26.2 p.c. of the
long tails had been struck. The incidence
of actual strikes was only 30.2 p.c. of
the long tails against 54.7 p.c. of medium
tails and 61.3 p.c. of short tails. The
variations were not only in tail strike
but in all strikes about the breech.
A further experiment was made with
various lamb-marking dressings. The
lambs were dressed and put over the rail
a couple of times during healing for
inspection. Among 172 untreated lambs
“ I'll run 'im dead in the first race, Ma; and give 'im 'is 'ead in the ’Andicap."
there were 44 strikes; out of 173 treated
with fish oil, 16 were struck, and there
were no strikes among 144 dabbed with
the old bush specific, tar and kerosene.
A third test was made with Dr. Watt’s
blue treatment, using 318 B- and C-type
four-tooth ewes. The treatment con-
sists in moistening the area to be dealt
with with boroglyceride in water, fol-
lowed by raddling with a special material.
The incidence of strikes in treated sheep
was heavier than in untreated —19.8 p.c.
against 12.3 p.c.
The results generally are valuable as
showing what can be done with a little
commonsense and hard work.
The Small Clip.
“A.L.”: The preparation of the clip
depends not so much on the number of
sheep as on the number of types of
wool in the flock. A mob of 800 merino
wethers of the same age and mark will
make bigger even lines than a mixed
flock of 2000 merinos, crossbreds, ewes,
lambs and wethers.
The sheep must be brought to the
shed in accordance with a plan. If they
are all merinos, start shearing the oldest
wethers, working down the ages to
hoggets, then young ewes and on to old
ewes and lambs. If flies are bad, start
on the ewes and shear in the reverse
order.
If the sheep are running together —
mixed ages and sexes—draft them into
fairly even lines before shearing. Draft
all crossbeds out of the merinos and
shear them last. Clean up all the merino
wool in the shed, locks and stains in-
cluded, before starting on the crossbreds.
Skirt fleeces thoroughly. If all the
burry skirts can be removed without
cutting too deeply into the fleece, it
should be attempted. If burr extends
high up towards the back, skirt lightly.
As a rule crossbred fleeces should have
only the dirty edges removed. Dry stains
in the sun before pressing and don’t mix
them with pieces.
Keep merino fleece lines even in
length, fineness and condition. If there
are only a few fleeces that won’t fit
in, don’t yield to the temptation to lose
them in the middle of a bale. The
appraisement committee can impose £1
per bale penalty, and there is no appeal.
If you can’t get a good piecepicker to
do the pieces, have them reclassed before
sale. Above all, don’t mix bellies with
pieces, or stains with bellies. Don’t mix
anything. Even if you have only a
chaffbag of bellies, send them separately.
Shear different types of crossbreds
separately, if possible, and don’t mix the
wool. You may have long and short
comeback, pure Romney or 8.L., or
either breed crossed with merino. Downs
breeds should be kept apart from them,
particularly those with black, brown or
grey points.
Press bales as tightly as possible—packs
will be dear and short in supply while
the war is on. If fleeces are being sent
for reclassing, roll and pack them care-
fully in the bales.
Where the Wool Goes.
“Ovis”: Graziers would have a better
idea of the importance of yield if their
knowledge of what happens to their wool
when it reaches the manufacturer was
greater.
W. L. Payne in his report on the
Queensland industry gives a few vital
facts. He points out that greasy merino
64’s loses about half its weight in scour-
ing. From clean wool to tops there is
another 14 per cent, loss in
of it regained in the shape of noil,
fettlings, etc. In the following processes
which turn wool into cloth losses total
33 p.c. It takes, therefore, 31b. of greasy
wool to make one yard of 16oz. cloth.
By the time wages, overhead and other
expenses have been paid the cost to
the manufacturer is 7s. sd. a yard or
thereabouts with greasy wool at 12d.
Every bit of rubbish in wool adds to
the amount needed to produce a pound
of cloth. And buyers in fixing their
prices make sure that they are on the
safe side as regards paying for dust and
burr.
The Ideal Pig.
“Mullengah”: Experiments at Cam-
bridge University (Eng.) under the super-
vision of Professor John Hammond and
Dr. C. P. McMeekan, of Massey Agri-
cultural College (M.L.) have shown that
a quick rate of growth in early life, when
frame and muscle are developing, gives
the best type of pig carcass —thick, well
developed muscles and a small propor-
tion of bone.
For bacon pigs the best type of carcass
is produced from a pig made to grow
well in early life —up to 16 weeks—but
which is afterwards rationed so that it
does not put on too much fat.
Much better grading results were
obtained by restricting the rations of
bacon pigs during the last part of the
feeding period. Increasing the weaning
weights of pigs by the improvement of
the sow’s milk supply, creep feeding and
management in the early stages of life
improve the quality and thickness of lean
meat in the carcass, whether the pig is
to be used for pork or bacon.
Young pigs which have been allowed
to go back in condition after weaning
and get stunted, and are then fattened
by being given as much as they can eat,
provide carcasses much too thick in fat
and poorly developed in lean meat to
meet modern demand.
(The Man on the Land continued on
page 40.)


3248
We don t wish to brag about our Footwear, but this Boot is really worth
mentioning. Double Soles, Water-resisting Ooze Calf Uppers, reinforced
Elastic in sides and Leather lining throughout.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in wide and extra-wide fittings.
Price 47/6 in Brown.
“lj it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.’’
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.”
&
MODERNISES A LIVING ROOM
"Here's another recent job of mine . . . carried out quickly, satisfactorily
and inexpensively, thanks to Cane-ite. I've reached the definite conclusion
that this easily-worked, strong and white-ant-proofed insulation is the most
versatile and practical interior board I've ever seen. With Cane-ite we
builders can insulate and decorate at one and the same time. We can
cut out noise, neutralise extremes in temperatures AND give you almost
any modern decorative effect you want . . . without big expenditure. To make
it modern . . . "make it Cane-ite". BUILDER BROWN
ft
K
m
V
&
If
lA
&
-
“Look at these old weatherboard walls.
They're depressing, shabby; and they
magnify every sound around the house." ,
In came Builder Brown's men with the
handy sized, durable Cane-ite boards—
sound deadening, temperature-resisting.
a
lots
i
The Cane-iie boards—in ivory finish—were applied over the old walls. Next--a
few items of furniture and—presto! a room as modern as any you see in the
society magazines! Builder Brown is now busy quoting for modernising the rest of
the house. No doubt about Cane-ite.
For beautiful tile effects in
kitchen and bathroom,
Masonite TEMPRTILE can be
easily and permanently applied
over existing walls. Temprtile
... made in sheets of handy
size . . . does not crack, warp
or buckle. Takes any finish
and is easily washable. Com-
pare the price of Temprtile!
c *sS'R rE
THE CANE FIBRE INSULATING BOARD
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY
LIMITED (Building Materials Division)*
Please send me sample and literature on
□ CANE-ITE □ MASONITE
NAME
ADDRESS ~
* Mail to your nearest branch — Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth. 8-6-11 CAB-9
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
SEI
RH
LOTI
For Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
HN <i A ; JRos6 i| & ii Co^Pty ;i< Ltd ;t> Kjn£_St ;: _Sydney
A self-contained sanitary system—approved by board of health
PROVIDES THE COMFORT OF CITY SEWERAGE
No Water Supply Required—Any Handyman Can Instal It —Automatic Overflow—Does Not
Require Emptying—Over 900 Sold —Shell Co., 64 Repeat Orders; Bank of N.S.W., IS.
n
NO SMELLS, FLIES OR GERMS
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
FULLY GUARANTEED.
PRICE £l6/10/- f.o.b. Sydney
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
28 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Write for Illustrated Pamphlet.
Agents all States.
.
The Man on the Land— Continued
Pasture Improvement in S.A.
“Mouton”: Rapid progress has been
made in pasture development in South
Australia during the last 10 years. In
the s.-e. district 45,000 tons of super,
was used for topdressing pastures this
season. Sub. clover and Wimmera rye
are the mainstays; in the richer and
better districts perennial rye, strawberry
clover and phalaris tuberosa have been
successful. Carrying capacity has often
been raised from half a sheep to four
sheep to the acre, while some of the
strawberry clover country carries up to
eight sheep.
Although improved carrying capacity
means big revenue increase, it brings
troubles which are not experienced when
grazing natural pastures. Footrot has
proved a serious menace ; in some parts
sheep had to be replaced with cattle.
Control is difficult and expensive. Entero-
toxaemia, which also threatened damage
on rich pastures, is now controlled by
inoculation.
Conservation of fodder becomes an
essential factor in the management of
highly-developed pastures. Both sub.
clover and Wimmera rye grass die off
in late spring, and unless ensilage or
meadow hay is made the stock could
not be carried through the late summer
and autumn.
A friend with 1500 acres, which carry
4500 sheep all the year round, has an
up-to-date plant for making meadow hay
—motor mower, sweep rakes, and baling
plant. From 300 to 500 tons is har-
vested each year, and during the lean
period the sheep are fed hay from special
feeders to prevent waste.
Hints for the Farm.
“K.”: Tetanus and malignant oedema
are amongst the commonest causes of
deaths after shearing. Animal droppings
are potent hosts for the germs. Both
diseases cause muscular spasms. With
tetanus, the head is forced back, ears
are cocked, legs stiffen and jaws become
clamped. A post-mortem shows no
abnormality. With malignant oedema
the head and ears hang listlessly, hind
legs move with stiff, dragging steps and
breathing is abrupt. Victims lie down,
become sleepy, and few survive more
than 48 hours after infection. The
action of the disease is swifter than
tetanus. A p.-m. will reveal gas in
swollen, black areas under the skin.
Inoculation will prevent tetanus, but not
m.o. Removing top soil from yards and
pens and covering them with fresh lime,
and disinfecting shearing boards, combs
and cutters with a strong antiseptic will
keep both diseases within bounds.
“Green F.”: Constant watchfulness is
the best means the small flockowner has
of combating fly. It is much better to
clean the sheep in the first stages of
attack than to wait until maggot wounds
and infection have reduced the health of
stricken animals and affected their wool
yield and quality. Look the flock over
carefully at least once a day during hot
and moist weather.
“Yeno Ham”: Best way of improving
a dairy herd is to use pure-bred bulls
whose pedigrees show dominant produc-
tion records. Choose a bull whose female
ancestors for four or five generations
back have produced 3001 b. or more of
butterfat in 273 days. For herd re-
placements keep only the heifers from
the highest-producing dams and by the
bull with production backing. By the
systematic recording of the cows for
production, groups of animals with yields
above the herd average are formed as
the nucleus of the breeding programme.
If the cows average 2501 b. of fat each,
get a bull whose dam yielded at least
3501 b. In this way the herd average will
be increased considerably in a few
generations.
“B. Cubbin”: Farmers needing new
seed should watch the current field-wheat
competitions, and keep an eye on the
performances of varieties suitable for
their districts. Pure seed is essential;
any variety which merits 18 points or
better for purity meets the requirements
of agricultural experts.
“Mt. Boppy”: To rid a horse of lice
apply at weekly intervals a dressing of
sulphur ointment (one part of sulphur
to eight parts of lard) or pot asset sul-
phurata (4oz. dissolved in lgal. of water).
Keep buildings, clothes, brushes, harness
and grooming kit clean to prevent further
infection.
“Clyde”: At the midday break take
all harness off horses used to pull the
machine and wipe them down. Little
time is lost and a better team faces the
afternoon’s work.
“No. 8”: Fix the stay for the strainer
post according to the height of the post.
Too highly placed, the stay will have a
tendency to lift the post from the ground
when the wires are strained, and a low-
placed strainer will act as a lever, caus-
ing the post to lean.
“Suit.”: Tying in sultana vines, a job
that will soon be faced in dried vine-
fruit areas, should be done with care. A
too-willing employee can do a lot of
harm unless coached. A short time spent
in teaching him how to take the green
canes in without pulling them from their
sockets will save fruit and a fair amount
of subsequent pruning trouble.
“Yarrunga”: Subject to confirmation
by the Wheat Advisory Committee, N. S.
Wales Department of Agriculture has
decided to discard Geeralying from the
recommended list, thus reducing the
number of approved bread wheats to
nine. A Westralian early-maturing variety,
highly resistant to flag smut and stem
rust, Geeralying had made great head-
way on the north-western and central
slopes. Its defects are weak flour strength
and a tendency to shed grain. Prefer-
ence is now given to Gular, which, though
susceptible to flag smut and stem rust, is
superior in all other respects, especially
in yield capacity. Gular was harvested
from 96,940 acres last year, compared
with 30,895 in 1937-38.
“A.A.D.”: Condobolin (N.S.WO ex-
periment farm, on the extreme western
fringe of the wheatbelt, has demon-
strated that in marginal areas oats are
capable of giving higher grain and hay
yields than wheat. J. T. Pridham evolved
early-maturing oats suitable for dry dis-
tricts. Over the past nine years Mulga
oats averaged 1 ton Bcwt. of hay per
acre, compared with 1 ton scwt., of
Baroota Wonder, the best hay wheat.
In grain, Mulga averaged 29 bushels 191 b.
over 11 years, as against 26 bushels 151 b.
from Bo bin and Bencubbin (leading grain
wheats). These results should be interest-
ing to western sheepmen, and offer added
security to fat-lamb raisers. Now Kurra-
jong oat threatens to oust Mulga. A
cross between Fulghum and Laggan, it
has superior grazing and recovery char-
acteristics.
“Sheepo”: In a Mackay (N.Q.) ex-
periment farm horses were fed 5011 b.
chaffed cane tops (chop-chop) with 61b.
heavy molasses and 31b. linseed meal per
day. The horses worked throughout the
season on this feed and were in good
condition when harvesting had finished.
Sheep and cattle won’t take too kindly
to molasses if used as a lick, but if a
quantity is placed in the drinking troughs
stock not only like their drink but re-
ceive as well a portion of food with their
water. In drought especially the latter
method of feeding molasses has much to
recommend it.
“Observer”: Narraburra Shire Coun-
cil, Temora (N.S.W.), has conducted a
soil-conservation competition—the first
in Australia. The work of the 10 con-
testants revealed impressive examples of
effective soil protection and restoration,
including erosion control by contour
banks on steeply undulating lands. The
winner, D. C. Nixon, Hazeldeen, Reef-
ton, had treated 1000 acres of his 4900
acres in this way. Narraburra Shire is
taking over a grader, which, in charge of
an experienced operator, will be made
available to district farmers at a nominal
cost.
Sydney R.A.S. will hold its show as
usual next year. That, apart from the
fact that farm industries will go on as
usual, means a month’s employment for
about 12,000 people.
“Porcine”: A. E. Swenney, of Inverell
(N.S.W.), who judged the pig section at
Perth Royal, found the Berkshires out-
standing and stronger than at Sydney,
Brisbane or Melbourne Royal. Breeders
in Westralia, he said, were on the right
type —a light, long-middle pig, to meet
requirements of the home and export
markets. The Tamworths, on the other
hand, were too short in body, and Large
Whites too heavy in shoulder and bone.
Color of hair and skin counts in the
quality of Tamworths. The dark-red
Tammy, besides being a slower grower
and less thrifty doer than the golden-red,
produces a side of bacon coarser in the
rind and flesh. Look for a combination
of pink skin and golden-red hair; avoid
the hard red with which is associated
bronze or copper-colored skin. The light
sandy type is equally undesirable.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
In future, the contributor placed first will be paid at the rate of 4Jd. per line;
all others at 2|d. per line.
For obvious reasons, letters bearing on international events are severely sub-
edited. Contributors who don’t want their names published are not disqualified.
Double rates go this week to a member of a country-town council (N.S.W.) who
writes on the relief-work business. To protect his right to a quiet life his name
and address are withheld.
The Right to Work
One cannot argue against the right to
work, but one can dispute the method
of providing that work.
The State collects huge sums for the
relief of unemployment. It then encour-
ages “semi-Government authorities” and
municipal councils to borrow for works
programmes. In some cases it bears the
full cost of so-called national works. All
these works are carried out under the
supervision of the State and subject to
rigid conditions laid down.
In practice the main consideration is
to provide work irrespective of the cost
of the undertaking or the degree of its
usefulness to the community. All
mechanical labor-saving devices are
heavily frowned on if not actually for-
bidden, and picks, shovels and wheel-
barrows are the order of the day.
As a member of a local council, I have
an intimate knowledge of one large (and
useful) works project. It will cost
£30,000, of which £7OOO represents
value of land and materials. Under
contract conditions £lO,OOO could have
been saved. As it is, one item of ditch-
building is costing £llOO. A contractor
tendered to do the same work for £386.
In fact, the whole business (it is really
a racket) is a shameless and inexcusable
waste of public funds.
It is not sufficient to give men work.
The project must be built on an economi-
cally sound basis. This type of relief
work can never be economically sound
by reason of the very conditions under
which it is carried out. Added to which
it is generally accepted that relief work
is on the average 40 p.c. inefficient. Relief
work differs only from straightout dole
in that a measure of physical energy is
extracted from the recipient. The com-
munity gains little, if anything—-and taxes
keep on mounting.
Why not give tax relief in a sum equal
to present relief taxation to employers
who enlarge their staffs and so help
absorb the unemployed into useful indus-
trial pursuits? Hitler tried this scheme,
and to give the devil his due he showed
it to be successful. High taxes breed
unemployment, and a breaking point
must eventually be reached.
Relief works have proved a costly
failure. Why not admit it and try some-
thing else? We should help industry to
absorb the genuine unemployed. We
should pay a pension to the genuine un-
employable.—ldiotes (N.S.W.).
When the War Is Won
The Allies should decide on a policy
of no annexations or reparations, with
self-determination for the peoples that
have been forcibly brought under Ger-
man rule. Germany would then have
no pretext on which to demand conces-
sions, and consequently any aggressive
action on her part could be instantly
checked by Britain and France.
The Treaty of Versailles, with its harsh,
unjust clauses, produced a genuine feel-
ing of grievance in Germany, and the
French occupation of the Ruhr so aggra-
vated this feeling that the people were
easy prey for Adolf Hitler with his
promises to restore the greatness of im-
perial Germany.
Any attempt to repeat the mistakes
of the last 20 years must result in more
mass slaughter, with the ultimate deci-
mation of the white races, followed by
the rise of the dark races.
God grant that the statesmen who
draw up the next Peace Treaty are far-
seeing enough to realise this, so that
instead of losing the flower of our youth
on the battlefield we may set about build-
ing a better and happier world! —N. N.
Middleton (N.S.W.).
War and Journalism
Notwithstanding the war, couldn’t the
press adopt a more reasonable tone in
the matter of reporting war news? This
isn’t 1914-18, when anything calculated
to stimulate war hate was considered
justifiable. Haven’t Mr. Chamberlain
and others repeatedly told us that we
are not fighting the German people, but
the Nazi Government?
It’s more than probable that most Aus-
tralians have the issue fairly straight in
their minds, and don’t need to have their
faith in England bolstered up by such
petty subterfuges as are to be found in
any daily newspaper columns —Germany
is on the eve of a revolution . . . Ger-
many is starving . . . Germany has little
petrol left . . . Goebbels is under arrest
. . . Hitler is raving mad and won’t shave
himself.
Worse than that is the inept juggling
with words in order to “preserve the
national morale.” When the Germans
bomb the French the latter are merely
bombed, when it is the other way about
the Siegfried Line is “battered”; the
French make an “orderly” or “pre-
arranged” retreat, the enemy retreats “in
confusion” or “frantically.”
After making due allowance for jour-
nalistic bias there seems no need for
such word-juggling, which deceives no-
body and creates only general suspicion
and distrust. — Celt (N.S.W.).
Recruiting; Apathy
Yes, there is a recruiting apathy (B.
25/10/’39), and the attitude' of the
general public is largely culpable.
When I first joined the militia I was
quite tolerant towards friends who con-
sidered me a damfool, and equally un-
perturbed by the sneers and audible gibes
I encountered when wearing the King’s
uniform. But since the war has started
I have noticed no complete reversal of
public attitude nor any tremendous surge
of admiration and respect for those who
are ready to defend us.
In camp recently a number of us
attended a local dance in uniform, and,
although we were sober and well
behaved, most of the fair sex present
refused to dance with us. What incom-
prehensible behavior compared with the
jingoistic female front of 1914-18.
To encourage recruiting give those in
uniform a cheer or a pat on the back
occasionally—they have sworn to lay
down their lives if necessary to protect
you and yours.— Crusader (N.S.W.).
Women
Half the tradition of women’s so-
called beauty has been assiduously culti-
vated by the flapper and sex press.
Half the value of reports of divorce
and other court cases would go if it were
stated in plain words that “Mrs. Smith,
an unattractive and annoyingly stupid
female with a high-pitched, irritating
voice, secured a divorce on the ground of
desertion.” Nobody would blame the
husband, and women would have nothing
on which to fasten their morbid curiosity.
The paper that honestly set out to
report in true perspective women and
their doings would rapidly go on the
rocks, or the reporter of the average rag
who did the same would soon be on the
street. — Reporter (Q.).
Taking advantage of powers given by
National Emergency legislation, let us
seize the excuse of war to put woman
back where she belongs—in the kitchen,
the nursery, the home and back into her
safe, voteless state.
For 20 years—since she was demobbed
from her necessary useful job of being
emergency-man during 1914-18—she has
had a generously-granted and tolerantly-
accepted run. But what has she done
with it?
Among other things, she has robbed
countless men of jobs, ambition and hope,
and driven the baby almost off the statis-
tics table. By doubling and trebling the
freak, crank and fear male vote she has
encouraged daffy things like the League
of Nations, one-sided, turn-the-other-
cheek disarmament, prohibition, censor-
ship, flapper-press control of politics
and the general schoolmarmishness of
things in general.
Put her away for 20 years, and the
world might have a chance to recover
virility and horsesense. —Now God Help
Me (N.S.W.).
I take up my pen to defend my sex
against the outpourings of “Leonardo da
Coogee” in B. 25/10/’39.
One has only to see Bondi Beach on
a Sunday with its swanking masses of
hairy males to discount the ancient
theory of Adam and Eve and favor that
of Charles Darwin. A pleasant Sunday
afternoon at the Zoo will convince those
who are inclined to doubt the evidence
of Bondi.
The female form may leave much to
be desired in the eyes of the average
male, but has the latter ever considered
women’s opinion of him? Most men
go through life in a blaze of self-glory;
to them flattery is the bread of life. They
lack individuality, and like to go about
in herds, if possible dressed alike.
As many of the stronger sex think of
themselves in terms of Clark Gable or
Lawrence Olivier, there is, of course, a
tendency to believe that they are attrac-
tive. Women who see them offstage dis-
agree.—Josephine Jolie (Vic.).
Are Times Hard?
For as long as I can remember I’ve
heard all types and ages of people bewail-
ing that times are hard and couldn’t be
worse. But are they really? Or is such
pessimism the result of an extravagant
outlook or a refusal to count blessings?
Those who talk loudest about the diffi-
culties of living conditions generally seem
to be those with least cause for com-
plaint.
Their trouble is that they have come
to regard luxuries as necessities and self-
indulgence as being of far greater value
and importance than self-denial and self-
lessness. Their idea of happiness and
prosperity seems to be the accumulation
of outward possessions and the endless
pursuit of expensive and, actually, un-
satisfying pleasures.
We hear that times are hard, yet people
keep getting jobs, being married and hav-
ing families. They grow rich or poor,
sick or well, sad or glad, contented or
dissatisfied just the same as people have
been doing for centuries. It makes you
think that the “times-are-hard” complaint
is a product of stagnant imaginations
like that overworked assertion that the
“good old days” were best.
“Times are hard” is a cry that intimi-
dates the fearful and undermines cour-
age and confidence. It should be re-
placed by a calm and widespread con-
viction that times are good and will soon
be even better. They shall be, too, if
everyone will work cheerfully to make
them so. —P. Rad won (Vic.).
Cheers for the Pioneers!
It’s about time the pioneers were put
back on their pedestal and left there for
admiring generations to respect and
honor. Everything good said about them
is true; everything detracting from their
heroism is untrue. Let no one question
this, for it is as it should be. Because
of it we believe that the pioneers’ spirit
is inherited and inspires us to greater
efforts in our tasks.
Our children should be taught these
things so that the future can build upon
heroically good beginnings. Austin
McCallum (Vic.).
Why blame the pioneers for destroy-
ing valuable timber when the present-day
generation is committing the same offence
with timber twice as valuable?
The mills on the Dorrigo are cutting
thousands of logs each day, and no
attempt is being made to reafforest. True,
the Forestry Department did plant a few
acres of pine at Eastern Dorrigo, but
most of it was destroyed by the bushfires
last Christmas.
My father pioneered a selection at
Eastern Dorrigo on land that the Gov-
ernment persisted in throwing open for
selection as dairy-farms despite opposition
from experts. A Government represen-
tative visited the selections annually, and
if he considered that the selectors hadn’t
cleared enough land during the year they
were reported and liable to a fine. To-
day the land is a mass of weeds, most of
the cockies having gone broke and
walked off.
My father can remember burning pine-
trees that were 90ft. high to the first
limb, and at least 10ft. in girth. To-
day the mills are cutting the same species
of timber, and the greater part of it is
no bigger than telephone poles. If this
practice is allowed to continue there will
be no pine at all for the next generation.
—Country Cousin (N.S.W.).
A.B.C. Again
The A.B.C. has again bowed to press
dictators and chopped the 8.8. C. news
rebroadcasts to ten minutes after a period
of unrestricted rebroadcasting. Press
lords are able to exercise this control
because the 8.8. C. news “copyright by
the Press Association, Central News,
Exchange Telegraph, Reuters and the
British United Press” is sold in Australia
to Associated Press.
I can pass over the patriotism of this
great newspaper group which is so deter-
mined that net sales should not suffer
at the expense of public enlightenment,
but I cannot pass over the parsimony o£
the A.8.C., which is equally a party to
the attempt to protect newspaper divi-
dends. Now is the time for it to spend
a fraction of the £700,000 earmarked for
air-conditioned palaces in providing the
public with the news it is entitled to
expect.
If the A.B.C. had the business sense to
go into partnership with the Canadian,
South African, Indian and Maoriland
broadcasting authorities it could pro-
vide an even better service for less
money, and the 8.8. C. could then an-
nounce regular bulletins “copyrighted by
the broadcasting organisations of the
British Commonwealth of Nations and
not available for republication in any
form whatever.”
Broadcast House, Sydney, seems to be
under the delusion that war communiques
and official bulletins are copyright. The
Commission has an outstanding jour-
nalist on its staff. Why on earth can’t it
give him the job of organising a decent
news service instead of producing a
weekly magazine?— Garetlod (N.S.W.).
“Hot Jazz”
How many people find pleasure in the
music known as hot jazz and swing
rhythm? Possibly five per cent. And
if anyone does enjoy this racket, should
such taste be encouraged by the A.8.C.?
Huge fees are paid to high-class artists
in an endeavor to raise the standard of
music, and special concerts are arranged
for children to cultivate their taste for
good music.
But what idea of music is the rising
generation likely to develop if this daily
blare of hot jazz continues? Our local
composers are turned down and given
neither help nor encouragement, yet we
are deluged with atrocious canned
“music” imported from overseas. Much
of the hullabaloo sounds as if it were
composed by lunatics and sung by drunks
—many a man has been arrested for
creating infinitely less disturbance.
Dance music can be beautiful —could
anything be more delightful than the
waltzes of Strauss? It’s about time we
danced to real music again. —F.U. F.
(W.A.).
Has the Negro Enslaved Us?
Latest manifestation of the negro con-
quest is the jitterbug. This product,
written about and pictured in all leading
American journals, is invading Australia,
its apostles being “cullud” pugs and
“vodeville artists.”
Parties to the jitterbug are young
men and women infected with the
madness and lasciviousness of the
jungle. By night they gather in
some dance hall or other, where they
leap and prance, press their bodies
together, rub noses, cheeks and foreheads,
clutch and clinch and cuddle, emitting
strange noises in response to tom-toms
and pipes blaring aphrodisiacal sounds.
For hours these excitements rage, while
bodies grow hot, cheeks glisten and
mouths fall slack. The howling climax
to any such “dance” is so symbolical as
to need no definition.
There is no place in Australia for this
noxious product of Harlem. Yet at
the moment, according to a Sydney
Sunday newspaper, we are afflicted by
two American negro dancers, the more
vocal of whom informed the paper that
“we started it in Melbourne,” and that
“during the excitement of war it ought
to spread.”
A Sydney “businessman” who ought to
have more sense tells the same paper that
“not to dance with faces or foreheads
touching is very ill-mannered,” and that*
he thinks Australians are “too inhibited”
to throw themselves into the new craze.
“Jitterbugs,” continues the paper,
“work themselves up to a high emotional
pitch which needs more than mere hands
and feet for its expression [my italics].
When the throbbing of the drums and
the sobbing of the saxophone reaches a
climax the female jitterbug throws a con-
vulsive back somersault over her partner.”
It is time these imports from the U.S.
were banned. Pride of race and that
austerity of conduct which distinguishes
white from black have made us what we
are. Surely we are intelligent enough to


find healthier forms of entertainment
than larking lasciviously to molten
music! —Not Forty (N.S.W.).
National Unity
I believe a referendum would give an
overwhelming majority for the abolition
of State Parliaments.
What a relief it would be to have one
taxing authority, one transport authority,
one arbitration authority and one Com-
panies Act instead of seven of each!
There would be no more overlapping of
administration and no more State boun-
daries to buttress up the multiplicity of
boards which supine State Governments
have allowed practically to strangle in-
dividual initiative.
An old Greek philosopher, Isocrates,
laid down as an axiom of political
economy that the acid test of a State’s
greatness was the fewness of its laws
coupled with the wisdom of their admin-
istration. His oration might be profit-
ably studied by budding politicians and
Parliamentary draughtsmen, some of
whom have a positive mania for lengthy
Acts and lengthier regulations. Sand-
patch (N.S.W.).
Politicians are as much use to Aus-
tralia as face-powder and. lipstick are to
a pig. Yet we’re burdened with 609, of
which number 150 plague N. S. Wales
taxpayers. Ninety of these political pests
each consume £875 of the State’s revenue
annually.
Now with a war and all its attendant
tribulations still further harrying us, they
propose going into limbo until after the
festive season. Not that we would
care a hoot if it were for the term of
their natural lives and 100 years longer.
The problem is. How are we to scrape
these blatherskiting barnacles off our
backs? Couldn’t we do with a Crom-
well at this blessed moment? The eyes
of even our sewing-needles would weep
with joy at the consummation of the wish
that is in citizens’ hearts —the abolition
of State Parliaments. — Aussie (N.S.W.).
Canterbury, N.S.W.
I noticed Canterbury in the list of muni-
cipalities which drank too freely of the
Spooner cup and became financially
blotto. This municipality—claimed to be
the largest in the Commonwealth —is hav-
ing its eleventh year of the party called
the Citizens’ Municipal Association.
In fixed loans outstanding (B.
18/10/’39) there is a trifling matter of
£445,500 to be squared up, but what
makes it more interesting is that the
municipality’s liabilities exceed its assets
by £218,000. If that were you or I
we’d soon be in the Bankruptcy Court.
But municipalities, when they cannot
meet their commitments, simply borrow
and borrow. An interesting stage should
be reached when the whole of the muni-
cipality’s revenue will be insufficient to
pay the interest on loans.
Ratepayers are not given financial figures
quite as bluntly as The Bulletin publi-
cises them, otherwise there may have
been a different tale to tell at the last
municipal poll. As it was, we got this
advertisement in the Canterbury news-
paper: “The monument of their labors
[the Citizens’ Municipal Association] is to
be found in the excellent condition of
roads and footpaths, the abundance of
public playgrounds, the reduction in rates
and the healthy position of the munici-
pality’s finances.” The party was duly
returned with an overwhelming majority,
and one of its first acts was to raise rates
to an unprecedented elevation. W. T.
(N.S.W.).
The Case for the Landlord
During every world upheaval the ques-
tion of rents is one of the first to receive
official consideration, and in this present
crisis South Australia has made laws to
protect the tenants —no advance in rent
is to be made by landlords for the dura-
tion of the war and for six months after.
Opposition to the measure asked in vain
that the law be reviewed at the end of
12 months so that, failing to give general
satisfaction, the bill could be repealed or
amendments added.
It seems a one-sided arrangement.
Granted that some check must be put on
landlords to prevent profiteering, they
also are entitled to a fair deal. In many
cases the landlord has all his savings
invested in his properties, and the rents,
are his income. If taxes are raised he
can do nothing, but must pay his rates
to time or be fined. Then, of course, he
must keep his properties in good repair
despite increased costs of material during
war.
I knew one widow who during the last
war had all her capital invested in houses,
and though many of her tenants paid no
rent at all it was well-nigh impossible
to have them evicted. They used door-
steps, flydoors and some floors for fire-
wood. Anyone that did vacate a house
generally left it in such a state of dis-
repair that it cost a year’s rent to restore
it.
There’s going to be a great shortage
of houses to rent if the present methods
are adhered to —who’s going to build
homes and pay rates and taxes for other
people to live in them rent-free? —
Wrent (S.A.).
The U.S.A. and Us
I think “F.HJ.” (B. 25/10/’39) was
rather hard on The Bulletin and its
attitude towards the U.S.A.
The Bulletin must have been aware
in September last year that there was one
country urging Britain to go to war with
Germany. U.S. papers and radio
stations were spreading the propaganda
everywhere. When there was no response
satisfactory to the parties responsible for
this yelping Britain and Mr. Chamber-
lain received some hot criticism. They
had funked it! The fact that Britain
was not prepared for any such conflict
was not then important.
Well, the war is now on, only this time
we are prepared for it. But what of the
country so anxious for that war last
year? It was noisy enough in its willing-
ness to urge calling a halt to Hitler’s
bluff—provided J. Bull spilt the blood.
This isn’t a war started by Britain. It’s
simply the line-up of democracy against
dictatorship, and the combination is
minus the very one mad for a European
scrap last year.—B. S. (Vic.).
Danger!
“Agony column” ads. should be sub-
ject to some sort of supervision, in order
to avoid this sort of advertisement, which
appeared in an evening paper the day
this par. was written:
Young man, 17, wd like meet young
lady 17/19, friendship, mat. Box
When youngsters for the cost of a few
pence can embark on such speculative
adventures, there is surely something
wrong somewhere. —Benn (Q.).
A Word for Cider
Yes, we do drink like cattle (B.
11/10/’39), and R. F. Fairbrother’s sup-
port of wine deserved its win ; but allow
me a word in favor of cider.
Australians grow the world’s best
apples, most of which have to be ex-
ported. We also drink a lot of the world’s
worst tea, all of which must be imported.
We are told that the war will make a
shortage of shipping space. The solution
is obvious.
Cider is the most healthful drink yet
known to man. It contains all those vita-
mins so dear to dietetians —and who’d
drink a cup of tea when there was a glass
of cider about?
Taken in moderate quantities cider is
refreshing without being intoxicating; in
larger amounts it produces elevation
without giving a “head” next day—which
can be said for no other drink except
champagne.
At present prices cider costs about
three times as much as beer and is about
nine times as enjoyable. If produced on
the same scale as beer it could probably
be turned out at a similar price. If used
as the national beverage it might be done
at a price to compete with tea. —How E.
(W.A.).
Library Readers
My objection to The Bulletin is that
too many people want to read it who
think it isn’t worth the sixpence.
I spend an unnecessarily large amount
of time listening to the librarian at the
Melbourne public newspaper-room tell-
ing me that I can’t have a look at the
one available copy because it’s out.
Maybe The Bulletin could afford to
give a big place like Melbourne an extra
copy. Maybe the library could afford to
buy another or to instal some improvement
on its antiquated system of one’s having
to ask the attendant for a copy which
isn’t in. The Hobart institution is bad
enough, too, but there one has only to
await some reader’s convenience. The
issue doesn’t pass in and out of an atten-
dant’s care between readers.
Launceston seems to give the only
decent service where one can be nearly
sure of the latest edition on Thursday
afternoon. The use of the reading-room
there costs a few shillings a quarter, but
the service is worth it. — Metax (Vic.).
Australian Tobacco
Tobacco production in Australia is an
economic headache to this smoker. After
a lifetime of using a well-known Ameri-
can brand and watching it creep up from
4s. to 16s. a pound, I was induced to try
Australian samples, and nearly lost my
faith in Australian industry as a result.
I went back to the American. But
when the price advanced still further I
consulted the advertisements in The Bul-
letin and discovered that I could obtain
one of the best tobaccos I have ever
smoked for less than half the price I had
been paying the Yanks. I was assured
it was made by an American firm.
Now, having adopted it permanently,
I am assured by an expert tobacconist
that the so-called American product is
Australian-made and -grown. As a final
jolt, I have discovered that the “Ameri-
can” tobacco I had been smoking for so
long is also Australian-made and -grown.
—O’Toole (N.S.W.).
A Labor Paradox
The Australian Labor party, which
favors compulsory trade-unionism and
enforces it whenever and wherever it has
the opportunity, sees nothing wrong in
prohibiting a man from obtaining em-
ployment unless he joins a trade-union —•
which is not an organ of State but a
purely private association. Yet the same
party declares it unjust for the same man
to be compelled to learn how to defend
his country. Why?—Tom (N.S.W.).
Arbitration Squealers
On the sporting field the Aussie has
been proved a gracious loser, ready to
congratulate his conqueror and admit, for
the time being at least, his superiority.
Why cannot a little of this admirable
spirit be manifested in the ceaseless
struggle between Labor and Capital in
the Arbitration Court?
In newspaper editorials we hear much
of the “spirit of arbitration.” It exists
only as a Utopian myth. Both worker
and boss approach this independent and
impartial tribunal of experts with com-
mon thoughts both hope to win the
Court’s award, and both have carefully
planned how to best circumvent it, should
the decision go against them.
Their attitude is akin to Hitler’s. They
will take all they can get by fair means,
then adopt foul if they can’t have it all
their own way. The word of neither side
can be implicitly trusted, as, at the first
convenient opportunity, it will be broken
and proved as worthless as a dud two-
bob.
The Court decides for the employer,
and immediately there is an outraged cry
from the camp of workers. Stop-work
meetings follow and strikes are de-
clared. In this instance there will be no
victor, but, as in war, two losers. Some-
times the “go-slow” policy is adopted and
the employer thus robbed.
On the other hand, should the Court
perceive the industry is flourishing and
decide the worker is entitled to increased
wages, what a howl! Capital clutches his
moneybags closer and screams that the
industry is ruined. Lockouts are out of
the question —that would cut off his pro-
fits altogether—so dismissals follow ;
foremen, acting under instructions, be-
come veritable slavedrivers, and, despite
the considered verdict of the Court, not
one halfpenny of his excessive gains will
Capital disgorge.
To the disgrace of all concerned, there
are no rules of fairplay in the arbitration
ring. Not until both sides learn to
give and take with the generosity and
aplomb of the sportsman can we expect
truly amicable relations between Labor
and Capital, and not until then will the
true fruits of arbitration be reaped.—
Ricardo (N.S.W.).
The Basis of Morals
A writer in a Maoriland newspaper
recently asserted that morality is gov-
erned by the social, political and eco-
nomic conditions at a given time and
place. This view was challenged by a
second person, who argued that in this
case morality would be no longer moral,
but would simply be expediency.
Is morality static, or is it governed by
changing social circumstances, by social
and economic conditions? Do or can
material changes affect morality? The
word “moral” is derived from the Latin
word mores, meaning custom; is
morality acting in accordance with the
prevailing customs and habits of society?
If I play golf in Australia on the course
of a club where Sunday play is usual I
am presumably not acting immorally. If
I play a round in a Scots village, and in
so doing shock and affront the inhabi-
tants, is not my action immoral? If so,
the morality of an action is affected by
place and circumstance. But is my play-
ing golf on Sunday more than a bad
breach of convention, is it really im-
moral? I do not regard it as immoral
does that affect the question?
A few years ago it was illegal, and
presumably immoral, for a man to marry
his deceased wife’s sister, but it is now
legal in many countries and presumably
not immoral. It is a crime to marry one’s
sister; in ancient Egypt the ruling
dynasty had to follow this custom ; it
was regarded as a heinous crime not to
do so. Is morality convention? —E. T.
Herington (M.L.).
Dead-end Jobs
There appears to be a great deal of
heartburning over what are termed
“dead-end” jobs for youth. Speakers
and writers shed metaphorical tears over
sundry youths compelled by an evil fate
(vaguely referred to as “our system”) to
perform an automatic task at a machine
week after week, for a fixed rate of pay,
until they die.
To judge by what is said, Australia is
a land, not of opportunity, but of
geniuses kept in chains by a soulless
Government or a bowelless system. The
fact is that the huge majority want
nothing better than a job which
demands no mental exertion —all they
seek is a place wherein, by standing for
a certain time each day and perform-
ing a few routine physical movements,
they can earn a wage sufficient to pay
their keep and leave a few bob over for
pleasure.
In any concern employing labor, how
many study the business, plan improve-
ments, evolve time-saving or efficiency
schemes? Watch how his fellow-
workers will treat the man who does
that! Note how every move to increase
production, improve quality or save ex-
pense is overtly or covertly resisted by
the body of employees. In this country
the individualist has no limit to what he
might achieve; the scope for his talents
is beyond imagination.
James Murdoch said, just before he
died, that the opportunities here were
greater now than when he started, and
that is true. Sixty years ago Australia was
a land of sheep runs, farms, mines and
little else. To-day it is an up-and-com-
ing young nation using aeroplanes,
radio, hydro-electricity, automobiles,
factories. It has leaders in science,
medicine, education, art, literature, etc.
“Dead-end” jobs exist only for those
who desire them. Any young man with
the ambition to get on, the sense to
know what he wants to do and the guts
to get out and do it will find Welcome
written on every mat he steps upon.
Opportunity is everywhere and waiting
to be grasped, but, as always, there will
be few to grasp it. But nobody ever
got home by being too lazy, too dense
or too apathetic to catch the last train
and then sitting down and blaming
everybody from the station-master to the
junior porter for it.
I know plenty of men who have been
a score of years in the one routine job
and never got out of it, but they’re
happy because it’s all they ever wanted,
though they’ve watched others rise
above them and go on to big things.
Any youngster in a “dead-end” job who
is genuinely anxious to get out of it
would be better on the track, for some-
where he’ll find his opportunitv. — Cee
Ess (N.S.W.).
A Vital Question
Elections may come quickly, and
electors should prepare to resist the drag
toward blind acceptance of party
promises. Australians have for too long
given credulous loyalty to vested poli-
tical organisations ; and the result is un-
employment and want where there
should be neither.
Instead of rallying to ready-made
catchcries, let electors make use of their
few brief days of power and demand
genuine answers to a plain proposition.
Make candidates answer the question,
“What do you propose to do so that men
(not girls) will be able to get work in this
country where there is so much work to
be done, and so that none may go ill-
clad and without proper food when there
is ample for all?”
Keep the candidates to that question
till a satisfactory pledge is extracted. Too
right, it’s a tough problem—but it goes
to the base of things, and members of
Parliament are paid well to find and
apply a solution.
Politicians who joy-trip and squabble
and intrigue while a generation of men is
growing up without knowing what a real
job is, and while families shiver and half-
starve through the winter, are inviting a
revolt which no thinking man wishes to
see.
Most Australian men have sound, re-
straining sense; but the best of them get
desperate when they are denied the
chance to work for a decent living for
their families. — Woodki (N.S.W.).


Bady Keeble.
(Miss Lillah McCarthy.)
“Pelmanism makes
you do your best, and,
moreover, makes your
best better than you
thought it possible
to be.”
m
Mr. Compton
Mackenzie.
“Pelmanism defi-
nitely cultivates the
imagination, and I do
not hesitate to say that
there is nobody who
would not benefit by a
Course.”
m
£
Canon Hap nay.
(G. A. Birmingham.)
“Pelmanism is valu-
able to all men and
women ... the re-
sults endure. Habits
of mind are formed
which are of the very
highest value in life.”
mmm
Sir Herbert Barker.
“Benefit beyond com-
putation can be se-
cured by all who will
follow the directions
given in the Pelm an
Course. It is impos-
sible to speak too
highly of it.”
mm
Sir Arthur Quiller-
Couch.
King Edward VII.
Professor of English
Literature at the Uni-
versity of Cambridge,
England, writes —
“ The Pelman Course
gave me practical hints
which, if they had
come my way in youth,
would have saved me
more time and labor
than I can reckon.”
Pelmanism
is the
Accepted Scientific Method
of Training Mind,
Memory and Personality
Pelmanism is the Science of Successful Living, It deals with fundamental
personal attributes and qualities which, when developed, establish mental
and physical health, increase resistance to the pressure of outside influ-
ences, and make possible adjustment to conditions that might otherwise
destroy happiness and success.
Fortunately the qualities are inherent in every normal man or woman.
The most important are
Self-Confidence
Concentration
Decisiveness
Self-Control
Judgment
Will-Power
Tact
Initiative
Social Ease
and a Good Memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices an*
useful data of every kind.
P ELMAN ISM is so universally success-
ful largely because it sets out to train
rather than to teach. It knows that,
according to the nature and the strength
of the individual’s habits of mind and
will, so are his personal efficiency and
his standing with his fellows. If these
habits are bad he will be ineffective
personally; if they are good he will be
strong.
A Doctor writes: “Pelmanism has shown
me how to observe instead of merely seeing.
That alone is worth the price of the course.”
A Clerk writes: “I have been able to get
a definite aim, and have abolished drifting.
I feel happier and better in myself. I can
concentrate much better. I am losing my
horrible self-consciousness.”
A Salesman reports: ‘‘Results, gained—a
healthier state of mind and body, more self-
con fide ice, a better memory, a feeling of
ability and keenness in business, a desire
always to employ my spare time to some use
and a systematic style of working.”
A Secretary writes: “I am forming
good habits and choking bad habits. I have
more self-control or self-reliance. I enjoy
life more. I feel better physically and men-
tally. 1 am easier to live with. I do not
brood.”
A Nurse writes: “Fits of depression are
far less frequent, and these are soon, over-
come. Certainly much happier.”
A Musician writes: “I have a brighter
outlook on life, and I am not as apt to
become easily depressed as formerly. I realise
my aim, and have more self-confidence in
my work ”
A Shorthand-Typist writes: “I have
energy enough for two, and the will to carry
out to the finish that which 1 pursue.”
A Draughtsman writes: “When I
started the course I was suffering from
severe worries. I have completely got over
these.”
A Motor Mechanic writes: “I now
gratefully realise that without a sound know-
ledge of the principles as set out by the
Pelman Institute we cannot hope to make the
best of ourselves. I myself have overcome
Shyness, Lack of Confidence, Mind-wander-
ing."
A Teacher writes: “Increase in my
powers of Concentration and Memory. In-
crease in Self-confidence. Great interest in
people and in my surroundings.”
A Bank Officer writes: “Self-conscious-
ness has given place to Self-confidence. I
am able to work harder and concentrate
more.”
A Builder writes: “I have developed
confidence in myself and a broader outlook
on life. My life has changed from a listless,
drifting one to one of purpose. I now have
a mental and bodily health I did not have
before.”
The Pelman Institute
For the scientific development of Mind, Memory and Personality.
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane (Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355.
There are over half a million
Pelmanists, of whom more than
40,000 have enrolled with the
Institute in Melbourne*
INTERNATIONAL AWARDS
to the Pelman Institute.
Liege - - 1930. Geneva - - 19i33.
Nancy- - 1932. Paris - - - 1933.
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
We shall be g-lad to send
readers of “The Bulletin” a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76
pages, post free. You can
write us fully, or you can make
just a bare application by using
or copying the form alongside.
Your inquiry will be regarded
as a confidential communica-
tion ; we have no outside repre-
sentatives.
Dame Sybil
Thorndike.
“Pelmanism gives a
mental clarity and
quality of alertness
that sees opportunities
and uses them, rightly.'’
Dr. F. W. Norwood,
D.D.
“Pelmanism is sound
psychology and an
admirable system of
mind - training. A
proper grasp of it
would save any life
from futility. It teaches
that man has the key
to his own can'eer.”
&
Lord Baden Powell.
“No man—no matter
how educated, or what
his age, or what his
profession—who seri-
ously takes up the
Course, can go through
it without improving
himself.”
IS
The Baroness Orczy.
“Pelmanism has
meant to many just
the difference between
a life of mediocrity
and disappointment
and one of prosperity
and triumph.”
To the Telman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Fane, Melbourne.
Please send me, free and post-free, a copy of
“The Efficient Mind.”
Name
Address
103
POST THIS SLIP NOW
IN ORDER TO AVOID MISSING EVEN ONE
WEEKS ISSUE OF YOUR FAVORITE WEEKLY
ft
- <"
TO “THE BULLETIN,”
252 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please post my copy of The Bulletin every
week for one year so that I do not miss a
single issue.
J enclose 24/- (plus exchange), the regular
annual subscription rate, in full payment.
NAME
ADDRESS
(Subscribers living outside Australia and New
Zealand should send 30/-.)
“THE ANIMALS NOAH FORGOT,” by A. B. Paterso
“Banjo” Paterson’s book of verses dealing mainly with the
unique and lovable Australian animals. Price 2/6 (postage
2d. extra).
“PAGEANT,” by G. B. Lancaster.
A delightful study of Tasmania’s early settlers.
407 pages. Price 6/6 (postage 4d. extra).
“LANDTAKERS,” by Brian
Penton.
The author faithfully depicts
the building up of the
Australian National
Character. 500
pages. Price 5/-
(postage
sd. extra).
iG*
><?y'
i 6^
V|G®, 4
&)
,IS® 6 '
‘•^.i\' e *'
f>< °'
nryLrt
.-•• >0 -V^S-i>«'
' c^»'b^


KEEP THE FLAG FLYING
-
-
m
mmmm
mm
v V
2&VS
i
SSSsSSfe
n
'■X
. -
m
v-m
Mfrmr
///.
s\V'
55?
2UX
11^
9 \
M
w/;
m
ms
fU4
mt
.WWWWWwJ
.aSSiiiisiSiiia
■
S\W'
tv,
%
(!!
'X-
Mu
o»
?W'
s'"
D
r -
p*
z
as
J * v>
o
N 5
Hi
rri
>
j2C
\ v»a
aM>y„?.
w
V
&
K
m i
SSii
M,
OOHEYS, LTD.,
VICTORIA:
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd,,
Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND:
B ’<rns, Philp & Co., Ltd., Brisbane.
Agents:
CENTRAL QUEENSLAND:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Dalgety & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
Milne & Co., Perth.
TASMANIA:
Ferguson & Co. Pty., Ltd., Hobart.
Northern Agencies Pty., Ltd., Laun-
ceston.
