

V
fcj
VI
T-V'c
Conceived with ambition and foresight nearly
25 years ago, The Broken Hill Proprietary Co.
Ltd. Newcastle Steel Works has developed
into the nation’s most vital industrial under-
taking. From widely separated parts of
Australia come the raw materials for con-
version into B.H.P. Steel, the masfer metal
which gives life to the nation's industrial
progress. More than 20,000 men,
whose wages total nearly £6,000,000
yearly are employed in the
Australian iron and steel
industry.
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD.
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street Melbourne
IRON and STEEL WORKS .... NEWCASTLE, NSW.
The Bulletin
The Riddle of Berchtesgaden
Vol. 60.—N0. 3108.
Wednesday, September 6, 1939.
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


DYMOCK’S NEW LIBRARY CATALOGUE
is now ready and will be sent free and post free to
any address on application to
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE, LTD.,
424-428 George Street, SYDNEY.
Learn
Story
Writmg
at HOME
This Book
FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free Booklet, explain-
ing how to Write for Profit, as advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
<3.8. 339
The Red Page
HUGH McCRAE AND HIS POETRY.
When Kenneth Slessor’s Cuckooz Contrey
appeared some years ago, Hugh McCrae wrote to
Slessor thanking him for a copy, and saying that he
couldn’t get Cuckooz Contrey out of his head. A
drawing, one of those mad and exquisite ones of his,
went with the letter: it showed McCrae with his head
neatly sliced open at the top, and a copy of Slessor’s
book sticking out. Now McCrae’s own latest publi-
cation, Poems (Angus and Robertson), appears in its
turn; and once again I wish I could draw like
McCrae, to depict these poems as the magic sword,
the Excalibur that is the only fitting symbol for their
glittering enchantment.
The work in this latest volume is a kind of sym-
bolised life-history, if you look deeply enough. You
can’t read it without having the man’s tall shadow
at your elbow. A word about the man himself, then.
He was born in Melbourne about 60 years ago,
second son of a family whose looks and manners made
it unnecessary to state that their lineage was noble.
Meeting the Lindsays—slim, inspired young Norman
in particular—in his late teens, he met men enchanted
like himself and men who had found ways of expres-
sion and exposition. He joined with them, shared the
good wild life of youth and those days, and in a flash"
was —not became—the writer of the earlier poems.
McCrae never learned this magic of jewels and flesh
and flowers. He knew it all from the beginning.
They all came from Melbourne to Sydney in time,
and here matured the famous McCrae-Lindsay asso-
ciation which revealed Australia as a ready and rich
new home for the Old World’s gods and symbols.
McCrae was using ancient symbols, words dripping
wine, honey and the good blood of sacrifice, words
that burned with a smell of incense and a very look
of flame ; he and Lindsay were like dynamite among
the Victorian literary and plastic-art conventions.
His bold and happy existence is more than hinted
at in Poems. The French mot has it that the style is
the man ; the man is also the style, and in poetry
that is particularly true, for more than any other
artist and his work the poet and his poems are com-
plementary. This is not to say that, if the writer is un-
known to a reader, the poetry loses its meaning ; but
it is to say that a profound contemplation of the
poems evokes the true mind of the man. In writing
of the man, you may hope to indicate the outside
forces and influences which helped, with forces inward
and more obscure, to shape that mind.
Most of the work in Poems has been published
already. It is a selection, designed to be properly
representative but not inclusive. He has included the
invariable choice of anthologists, “Never Again,” but
his own inclinations run to the following: the mad
King’s words on the dead hand of the Queen’s lover,
towards the end of “Joan of Arc,” which begin,
This flaggy hand loved fire and fur,
Worshipped young flesh of paramour—
Would itch, was rubbed, would itch again,
Fled into gloves from wind and rain
and from the same unfinished drama-poem Le Fol’s
Now would he give his princely ring
To go with me a-minstrelling . . .
King’s brother! Yet, so dresses Death
His creaking ribs, the painful breath
Flaskers with blood . . . and either hand
In agony walks through the sand....
and lines privately famous from the same —Orleans’
love-speech on page 182, beginning “Songs out of
tune ” and containing that amazing description of
the moon among the linden-leaves:
as though the night undresst
One young and yet untasted breast
To tempt her slow-eyed lover find
Its sister-beauty
Among the lyrics there are “Winter Night” and
“Unicorn.” Whoever has read the former will never
forget:—
The children in the chimney nook
Scarce speak each other’s name . . .
Their shadows like a reaping hook
Curve round the hearth, as if to stook
The shaking tasselled flame.
As lovely as the “Unicorn” —with its moral
at the end sprung like a deft surprise—is “Lament,”
which is also about a unicorn:
My unicorn ... my unicorn is dead;
He with the swift long flanks and kingly head,
The great tall spiring horn . . . the yellow-eyed
Fierce-bearded husband of the forest side
with its full freight of sorrowing beauty of image and
word.
It is words and images which will win the reader ;
often the subjects are capricious and tiny, subjects in
a private world with the writer as its king and its only
human, or subjects snatched wilfully from a Norman
Lindsay picture ; a stray thought caressed until it sings
with the voice of genius, or a jest that turns serious.
The imagery and the words are never less than excel-
lent, with that air of exact inevitability which strikes
a dozen harmonic overtones in the mind of the reader.
Its ease of manner makes the book able to be
read from cover to cover in a night, without cloying
the palate, with mental excitement and an increased
appetite, as if it were a good dream. Of the 111 poems,
another and another come to mind in retrospect;
another and another, having deeply impressed the
senses before, break like a new surprise at a re-
reading. The vast canvas and suggested detail of such
a work as “Bacchanalia,” for example, containing
effortless lines such as
An hundred women beautiful as bronze,
or
And every rock flung echoes of the race
Of cloven hooves along the black ravine,
or the sudden musical resolution of the concluding
couplet coming on the heels of such frenzied wildness:
When 10, the lark, with glad and open note,
Bade all the sky burn incense in the east.
There are the rich images and goodly argument of
“Red John of Haslingden,” in which a wild fawn calls
to Red John to stand out from the hunting party, and
Red John stepped out, a stalwart man,
Lips curled up from the bouzing-can,
the portrait done in a simple couplet, typical of more
than I can name, not standing out alone in the work,
but come on again and again.
Pleasure itself has so often been his theme,
pleasure and happiness, joy in simplicities secretly
known to be profound, that it is not strange to read
this flawless gem, “Spring”:
Now doth the devil, laughing, prance,
To feel his bride, the spring,
Become, with many a sidelong glance,
Again his own sweet thing.
And every man beyond his prime,
A day’s march off the grave,
Walks backward in this joyous time . . .
To look, and laugh, and wave,
written as though of himself: for ever since I’ve known
McCrae it’s been his fancy to represent himself as
“beyond his prime,” and merely walking backward to
look and laugh and wave —a strange misrepresentation
of himself, for, like his work, he lives in an eternity of
spring. This life, the life of “The Happy Man,” is here
for our sharing, in Poems.
KENNETH MACKENZIE.
S. H. PRIOR
MEMORIAL PRIZE
Closing Date, June 6, 1940.
£300
FOR AN AUSTRALIAN NOVEL,
BIOGRAPHY OR OTHER PROSE
WORK.
The S. H. Prior Memorial Prize is offered as
a practical encouragement of Australian writers
and Australian literature —“Australian being
adopted as a convenient term to include Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands. All
writers born in these parts are included, no
matter where now residing; so also are bona
fide resident's, no matter where born.
The prize is an annual award of £100,'which
may be withheld if no entry is considered
worthy. With accumulations from years when
no award was made the amount has built up
to £300, and an entry of sufficient merit in
the present competition, closing June 6 next
year, can qualify for the £200 accumulations in
addition to the ordinary award of £100.
This 1940 Competition is open to Novels,
Biographies, Autobiographies and all other kinds
of works in prose. Each MS. must be submitted
under a pen-name, with full name and address
in an accompanying sealed envelope.
The winner will be free to have his or her
winning work published in book form by any
publisher preferred. Serial rights will be a
matter for arrangement between “The Bulletin”
and the winner and the writers of any other
entries selected, payment for such rights being
in addition to the Prize. All other rights—-
book, stage, radio and the like—will belong to
the author.
Any further details required can be had on
application to the Secretary, S. H. Prior
Memorial Prize, Bulletin Office, Box 252 IBB,
G.P.O., Sydney.
The Duke of Popocatepetl.
W. J. Turner was born in Melbourne and has
lived most of his life in London, but his spiritual
habitat is the top of Popocatapetl. He wrote a poem
that became a stock anthology-piece about the volcano,
and now he has written an autobiography, novel,
fantasy or what-have-you called The Duchess of Popo-
catapetl (Dent). It has, naturally, nothing to do with
Popocatapetl —or Potocapapetl or Catopopapetl either,
for that matter.
“This book,” the publishers say, “cannot be put
into any category. Is it a novel, an autobiography,
a social satire, a poetic fantasy? The answer is ‘Yes
and No.’” Is it worth reading? The answer is No
and Yes, depending on whether the reader likes a
book to make good, plain sense or whether he will
allow a writer —as the author of Tristram Shandy
is permitted to do —to digress, to be fanciful, to be
mad as a hatter, to take a malicious delight in obscur-
ity, to write, in fact, to please himself instead. of his
audience. The Duchess of Pop. hasn’t the richness
of Sterne, but it’s amusing enough and comprehen-
sible enough to be worth attempting.
As Turner himself sums it up on the last page, it
is a picture of the post-war decade, 1918 to 1928.
Through those years, as they were lived in literary
London, float Turner’s two heroes, James Blow and
Henry Airbubble. Airbubble confesses that he lived at
a place called “La Rose” at Essendon, Melbourne.
Blow, whose grandfather lived on top of a tower in
Persia, is presented as Airbubble’s friend. They could
be considered as aspects of the same personality —Air-
bubble poetic, Blow more practical but tinged with
Airbubble’s fantasy—the composite character mock-
ing and elusive, a blend of fact and fiction. The first
quarter of the book is an account in the manner of the
Decameron of the adventures of Blow’s father and
grandfather in Persia. It is .slightly improper and
highly amusing, and portions of it, set in a lost Per-
fect City among the mountains, have the beauty and
enchantment of a dream.
When Blow is sent to Cambridge Turner comes
down to earth. The rest of the book, though Air-
bubble keeps slipping from his grasp, is mainly literary
gossip, fairly familiar material, but sometimes very
frankly malicious and always satirical:
For example, when invited through John Galsworthy
to join the P.E.N. Club, of which he was then president,
Blow said to Airbubble: “We cannot join this ridiculous
crowd. Galsworthy is so vain, and they have flattered
him to give his name to it, but it only exists to make
publicity for a lot of mediocrities,” with which Air-
bubble readily concurred, for he was guided absolutely
by Blow in such matters, recognising instinctively not
only Blow’s worldly acumen and scorn of log-rolling
but his impeccable literary taste.
The Duchess makes an appearance at last, not
perched on the top of Popocatapetl, but as the hostess
of an English country house where Blow and Air-
bubble meet some of the most brilliant figures of the
day: Mr. Asquith, Virginia Woolf, Lytton Strachey,
Siegfried Sassoon, Bertrand Russell, Aldous Huxley,
Mark Gertler, W. B. Yeats, Gogarty, Wyndham Lewis,
Desmond MacCarthy, H. W. Massingham, Julian
Huxley, Edmund Blunden, Clive Bell, Picasso and
D. H. Lawrence.
Discussions with or of these notabilities, the dia-
logues of Blow and Airbubble and the soliloquies of
both of them give Turner an opportunity for airing
his views on most subjects under the sun —and for
digressions such as his “private joke” about a Maori-
lander who turned Jew and built a synagogue because
he looked like Hitler. He has interesting things to
say about the “Leftist” movement in literature and
politics. Though Airbubble followed the fashion at
first, disgust with the brutalities of the Russian revolu-
tion and dislike of “sectarianism” in art caused him
to change his opinions. He, castigates the young
“Leftist” poets who went over to watch the war in
Spain as “vultures.” Truth, he says, is not political
but “aesthetic,” and, sooner than be labelled Fascist
or Communist, “Blow continued to describe himself
as a Zoroastrian, and Airbubble as a member of
the Church of England.”
At the end Blow has come to realise with Air-
bubble “the innate inevitability of all things,” and, as
there is not much sense in being a wise and practical
person in the face of that, he fades from the scene—
merging into Airbubble or going back to Persia,
whichever way you like to interpret it. In justice
to the author, who has done it to annoy everybody,
it should be said that his persistent spelling of “read”
as “redde” is quite successfully irritating.
Farmers Without Farms.
According to the story told in John Steinbeck's
latest novel, The Grapes of Wrath (Heinemann ;
Angus and Robertson), the American small farmer is
in much worse plight than his wheatgrowing cousin
in Australia. The book begins in the Oklahoma cotton
country and ends in the Californian orchard lands.
Between the two stretches National Highway 66,
along which a stream of migrating families in second-
hand cars re-enact in modern terms the story of the
covered wagon. A scattering of broken-down and
abandoned vehicles in the wayside ditches testify to
wrecked hopes.
Division of the cotton lands among the children of
the pioneers has reduced the separate holdings to less
than will provide a living except in good years. In
middling years the farmers go to the “land develop-
ment” companies for finance. In bad years the
farmers are reduced to doing a succession of hopeless
sums on the ground with a chip. It isn’t easy to dis-
possess men who refuse to be driven by the logic of
figures from the little plots on which they were born
and have raised a ragged family, but, according to
Steinbeck, the companies have an effective technique.
When circumstances necessitate taking over a group
of farms to be worked collectively the companies’
caterpillar tractor ploughs straight through the “door-
yard,” and gives the corner of the farmer’s flimsy
cottage a crumpling clout as it passes. It hits another
corner on the return trip, and presently brings the
structure down on the family’s head.
It’s no use rushing out with that typically Ameri-
can argument a gun, for the driver is mostly another
farmer dispossessed in an earlier year. “Watcha doin’
that fer, neighbor?” “Fer three dollars a day. My
kids ’a’ gotter eat.”
Neither is it of any use to go gunning round the
company office. The manager’s a nice fellow. He’s
sorry, but the company has its orders from the pro-
vincial bank. The bank, it appears, has its orders from
“back East.” “Back East” boils down to large cities
whose people have troubles of their own. There’s
nothing for an enraged man to kick, shoot or even
swear at.
Steinbeck takes a typical family, the Joads, old
American stock, and traces their adventures from the
{"Red Page” continued on page 8.)


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING” — always.
“THE SENIOR STORE”
Anthony Horderns
’Phone A 12401
Day or Night
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
Postal Address :
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney
38**
m
m
mmm s 3
pi
v* ...M
m
g&ett
■&wSi
w&
::■■■■■'•
■4T.
'•* *
|
P P
i <<
PI
£:•:*: Xvw>wx;v
.SKStS
i
&JafeX
mm
■I
$? ,/* s
\
r M >jr*^***ja
Ijt \ ' dfe* i
?.A *• V,. a , v— '' cdsliMfe>'fv •;
rfy'X
H
■
»*
■
r *
( Sr c Wa
&
W¥-
m
111
*>
§H
<sss»
. ? ? i* 4 n'V73
f-^7>
mA
! *' *
sE;*%Cji
$ 9:- X’*'"
?' >a _ , ________ ” .
Hi
>.%' \*js'
? i ? ,< &
’ ' 5 » V
r*
ds s
MS
: . ; :v
f ji i
V *'i-
*ss
i ,>» >** - .g
1* ' *
I . V. > 5;
il vi&V* * *s,■* s '
V* 1 ,* * - * j
!-yl v.4'' 'i^
l %
m
m m
mm
§4 % , ';
m®
m».
m:
ENGLISH STYLE SPORTS COATS
%
Where good fellows meet together you will find Blues, Browns and Greens. These
distinctive London tailored Sports Coats have a smart informal cut which will add to
your prestige. At Anthony Horderns', from 637-
Others 1 - - 70/-, 84/-, 90/-, 105/-
WOOL WORSTED SPORTS COATS
Ready for Spring . . . fine textured all wool lightweight worsted Sports Coats, tailored
by Anthony Horderns'. The colours and patterns surpass anything we have shown
previously: Fawns, Browns, Blues, Greens and Greys. Plain or action backs; plain or
pleated patch pockets. 52 different fittings for men 9to 17 stone.
At Anthony Horderns', from 59/6
Others 69/6, 75/-
Lightweight Suits
The Spring and Summer problem of the Business
Man is solved by these two-piece lightweight
wool suits. Darker shades, smartly patterned
Blue Tropical Worsteds,, tailored three button
model, self-supporting trousers —no belt or braces
required.
At Anthony Horderns' 79/6, 84/-, 90/-, 105/-
z
• Men’s Wear—Ground Floor—George Street. Freight paid to all railway stations in N.S.W. and seaports in the Commonwealth.
SMART HATS FOR MEN
☆ NEW SHAPES ☆ NEW COLOURS
FAILS WORTH
High-grade English Hat in
dressy snap brim style with
narrow or medium width
brim. Shades of Grey,
Fawn, Blue-Grey, Brown.
At Anthony Horderns', 35/-
BATTERSBY
Fine quality fur felt Hat, made
in England. Range of smart
styles with narrow or medium
width snap brims, satin lined.
Light, Medium or Dark Grey,
Fawn, Brown and Navy.
At Anthony Horderns' 30/-
AKUBRA
Pure fur felt, snap brim style,
featuring lower crown and nar-
rower band. Also available in
the more conservative styles.
Grey, Blue-Grey, Fawn and
Brown. Three qualities.
"Boomerang" 19/6
"High," silk lined 25/-
"Superfine," satin lined, 32/6


Chiefly About a Boat
MOIRA
By Olat Riihen
DRAWING BY JOHN MILLS.
SCUD sped across the grey sky, and the sou’-
west wind whistled in the trees on top of the
hill, but the tiny harbor in the river-mouth lay
placidly, like a grey field in a clearing. The roar
of heavy seas came intermittently and unbalanced
across the low hill, at the back of which the heavy
breakers crashed about the rocks like thunder in a
mountain defile.
Big Dinny Hazleton sat athwart the coamings of
the Moira’s forward cockpit as she lay keel-over on
the pebbles. This annual overhaul was going to be
costly. The anchor chain was done, and there were
no two ways about it. He passed the links through
his hand, heavy links that had nearly equalled his
little finger for thickness, but were worn now to a
shaving where link had interlocked with link. He
jumped down, and piled it all back on top of
the great wheel that had formed his moorings, but
lay now beneath the Moira’s bows, where she had
nosed it into the beach. He looked up at the sky
and grunted dubiously.
Later, when the tide was full enough to float
the schooner, he ran it round the corner of the next
headland up-river and pulled the dinghy ashore with
the anchor, dropping it carelessly in a foot of water
on a shellbank. He rowed back against the tide
to his lonely hut by the river-mouth. For fifteen
miles from the hut in any direction you would find no
one, unless it were the crew of the little coastal tub
bucking the southerlies on another day’s run at sea.
That was the rule. This night was an exception.
The lad had been walking down the road that
ran along the spur of the inshore hills when the noise
of Dinny starting up his engine halted him. He
crawled along a giant limb of broadleaf that stretched
out from the hill until he could see the river below
him. The Moira nosed round the point, and Dinny
launched the dinghy to carry the pick ashore.
The lad’s eyes brightened. He was twenty,
perhaps, tall and broad. Five days had passed since
he had run from the Borstal institution. Ten years
before he had run away the first time, from a virago
of a mother and the kindlier though drink-sodden
wreck she lived with. The Maoris had taken him in,
and he had fought his way in the world for the most
part on the decks of half a dozen crazy fishing craft.
Slipping through the bush, he gained the Moira
not ten minutes after Dinny had left her. He pulled
on the bankline until the keel grounded on the shell-
bank, then cast a half-hitch over the top fluke of
the anchor and waded out to the boat and clambered
aboard. He took up the slack of the line on the
bollard, and made a cautious survey of the vessel.
She was all of thirty foot, and beamy; double-
ended. She carried two tall sticks —Douglas fir, he
noted approvingly. The after-cockpit was small, and
the forward one practically the same size. A large
cabin and engine-room and a small forward locker
for the bankline took up the rest of the space. On
the bare boards of the bunk were a host of dans for
set-lines, and at the back of these he made a place
for himself and went instantly to sleep.
Though he did not turn, he was aware when the
schooner swung down-river with the changing tide.
He was aware and instantly awake when the light creak-
ing of the coir bankline ceased and the pick noise-
lessly released its now useless hold on the bottom.
He was on deck when he heard Dinny shout; flat on
his belly, in the gathering dusk, inching the bankline
over the bulwarks to prevent any accident loosing his
hitch and giving the pick hold on the sandbar which
would surely obstruct the entrance. Through the half-
inch scuppers he could see Dinny racing to the dinghy
on the grass. The next instant the Moira slewed as
the first sea struck her, rose magnificently and crashed
back into the next wave. The boy laughed as the
spray flew and a lip of
green water overhung
the rail a moment be-
fore it crashed. He left
the pick swinging, and
crawled back to the
cabin. He was safe
No dinghy could live in
that sea.
The moon rising
found him standing
into the cliffs far to the
south’ard, searching for
a harbor of which he
knew only the inshore appearance, the Moira’s
engine running quietly at half-speed as she
bucked the southerly. Drifts of spattered cloud hast-
ened across the face of the sky, but the illumination
was enough. Ahead of him a long white beach
showed, with the hills lost in the darkness inshore.
To port a white hell raged about one particular
spot, and he skipped nimbly up on the deckhouse,
clinging to the mast, with Dinny’s steering ropes in
his hand, feeling the ship’s way with a touch as sure
as that of any horseman. The Moira bucked and
plunged beneath him, while above the great cliffs rose
so close that she rocked in the backwash. No rocks
showed ahead ; only once he veered out to avoid a
shoulder of the underwater cliff no landsman could
have guessed at.
At an angle the cliffs turned inshore, and
he followed, hesitatingly slowing the engine
again, and cursing the necessity to duck in-
side. He had no knowledge of his petrol.
If she should stop He puckered up
his lips to whistle, then remembered the
superstition, and began to sing instead.
Ahead of him, the beach appeared
to meet the cliff. He glanced to *
the south’ard before driving the
Moira in again, almost to the outer
lip of the breakers, and the cliff
fell away again. Here was his
harbor.
As he had hoped, the long
beach was a river-spit. ,In
the channel the seas were
quieter, though the tide, still
running outward, lumped up
against the wind. Round
the corner of the spit he
shut off the engine and
nosed the Moira inshore.
Sea-lore had told
him the bank would
be steep there where
the tide ran. He
carried the anchor
, ashore and dropped
it amongst the marram
grass, leading it over the
port bow so that the Moira
would swing into the
channel.
Only two nights since
he had reconnoitred this
ground looking for stores.
He knew where to find the
sea chest in the outlying store-
house, though it was the work
of half an hour to move it
silently across • the road and
into a flat boat that bobbed, one
of a dozen, on the edge of the
water. Two more trips and some
W cautious crawling about the huts
I where the men slept secured him an
F axe, an adze and a half-drum of
prepared paint. He pushed off
’ silently into the night. Next morn-
ing the discovery of the missing flattie
and later the sea chest gave the town-
ship talking matter for a month.
f Two hundred and odd miles away
were the West Coast sounds. Here, by
a circuitous route, the Moira sailed,
petrol conserved, unneeded with the driv-
ing force of her huge mainsail. She was
schooner-rigged.


Hence six long weeks later she sailed again—
ketch-rigged this time.
The lad had been regretful over the masts, but
the good oregon lay hidden by the bush of Luncheon
Cove, and two sturdy saplings of kahikatea had taken
its place. Kahikatea and ironwood were the gaffs ;
ironwood was the not-so-graceful tiller. Gone were
the bulwarks, replaced by an inch and a half toe-rail.
Two feet of the cabin had gone to lengthen the cock-
pit ; the engine—a ’Frisco Standard, common enough
in most fishing waters —had lost its rust and grime,
and sundry filings and hammerings and the altered
position of batteries, tank, ignition switches and the
rest altered its appearance even more. In the absence
of sandpaper, a shark-skin and paint had effected
the final transformation, and bravely the little ketch
bore the name Wontegong and a northern fishing
number.
DIG Dinny hailed the lad as the Wontegong felt
' her way into the harbor she knew so well. “Hello,
sailor!” He came splashing into the water. “Staying
the night?”
“Thought I might try it here a spell,” was the
answer. “Where’s all the craft?”
“There ain’t any. Not now. You better not use
those moorings. That’s only a marker. Chain’s gone.”
The business of setting out anchors fore and aft
occupied them a spell.
“You’re young for the game—single-handed. What
do they call you?”
“Bud Johnson,” lied the boy easily. “Fisherman
yourself?”
The question was redundant, but the man answered
it as the boy hoped. “Sure, if I had a boat. Mine
went —those damned moorings, and some southerly
weather. Want a mate?”
“They’re hard to get,” said the boy, and nodded.
P\ INNY took to the Wontegong from the start.
“She’s much after the build of my Moira, but
safer.” The boy looked at him. “Moira was too quick
to roll; this Wontegong has a fine, easy motion. I’m
getting too old for a quick chop.”
Bud glanced involuntarily at the heavy masts
and thought gleefully of the ballast now lying deep
in Chalky Inlet. Old-timers knew too much —and too
little.
Fishing was good, and every night the battered
old truck in the shed made a long trip to the
township. With every day Bud grew more light-
hearted. Here he was safe. Remained only the visit
of the Inspector of Fisheries; but he did not antici-
pate danger. The original Wontegong that had rotted
away in a backwater of the island was near enough
to the specifications of the Moira, and the fishing
number was right. She would be on the books all
right—with no transfer of ownership though. He’d
struggle through.
Dinny hadn’t dropped to it. He’d been too thor-
ough. Even the fishing-lines, the whole twenty, were
different. New shafts of grass-tree instead of
bamboos for the flags ; new paint on the drums and
wooden stoppers for corks ; lines re-rigged with a
jamming-hitch to replace the splice for snoozings;
two lines ditched altogether, but that couldn’t be
helped. He’d been thorough, all right.
The end of the month came, and Dinny cashed a
cheque. He had taken that business in hand because
they were supplying his old clients. He waited until
they were home before he split the cash.
“What do you reckon is fair for boat rent?” he
asked.
“Half a dollar,” replied Bud promptly. It was
low, but he had a good mate. Boat rent came first
for the owner, before mates split. He picked up a
handful of lengths of old, unravelled line, and began
to “snooze” hooks, laying up the cord as a rope cable
is laid up.
The cheque was £46. Dinny handed over £2O
in notes, and fished in his pockets to produce a couple
of florins.
“Wait a mo, Dinny. You’re on the short end.”
Dinny shook his head slowly. “Not this time,”
he said. “Wait till you buy the Moira.”
Bud sat quiet a few seconds. “What do you
know?” he said.
Dinny laughed and grabbed some twine himself.
“Just this,” he said. “I’m left-handed. Look,” and
the twine became useless in his hands. “See, I have
to untwist it, to lay it up. I’ve always been a bit
shy of being left-handed, and I had time to put in.
Those snoozings on our lines are the only ones left-
handed on the coast.”
“I suppose” Bud began. Then, “Well, I sup-
pose I can clear out in the morning.”
“If you like.” Dinny raised his eyebrows. “What’s
wrong with this job?”
“You wouldn’t want a thief. I’m wanted for
other things, too.”
Dinny stared a minute. “That’s your lookout.
The man who can do what you did is too good to
lose. I needed a holiday, anyway.”
OVERALLS
BY G.C.B.
BEIN’ Alderman Pomfrey’s son-in-law, Mr. Quirk
always relieves the Town Clerk for ’olidays ;
and no sooner ’ad he took over this time than
he ’its on a idea wot he thought would improve
the council’s service.
“Quite true, Raggles,” he ses, ’aughty as usual,
when I asks ’im about it. “All the council’s outdoor
employees is goin’ to wear distinctive overalls in future.
It’ll look better, and p’r’aps it will remind ’em that
they’re on duty.”
“There might be one or two wot needs remindin’,
Mr. Quirk,” I ses thoughtful. “Of course, a ratcatcher’s
work is too important for ’im to need”
“Of course, you don’t need no remindin’,” he
agrees quick. “But them overalls might remind your
publican friend that you’re on duty when you’re
wearin’ ’em.”
“If ever I goes into the Shelterin’ Palm on duty,
Mr. Quirk,” I ses dignified, “it’s for professional pur-
poses only.”
“All right, Raggles,” he ses short. “We won’t
argue about it; you’ll wear ’em, that’s all.”
I tells ’im that if that’s the way he feels about it
I ain’t got no objections, but when I explains about
them overalls up at the Shelterin’ Palm some of the
other council blokes was ’ighly indignant. Bluey
Maloney, wot drives the water-truck, was terrible put
out, sayin’ it’s a stain on ’is character ; and when I
tries to smooth ’im over by tellin’ ’im that it’s doin’
some good by puttin’ a bit of business in the way of
Alderman Pomfrey’s friend, Mr. Vivian, wot runs the
gents’ outfitters, he near chokes over ’is pint and says
the ’ole thing is a bit of graft wot old Pomfrey ’as
put ’is precious son-in-law up to.
The others agrees with Bluey, and it dawns on
me that Mr. Pomfrey might be placed in a false posi-
tion, as the sayin’ is ; and bein’ anxious to save ’im
any trouble I warns ’im about it next mornin’.
“This is the first I’ve ’eard about overalls,
Raggles,” ses Mr. Pomfrey. “It’s got nothin’ to do
with me.”
“P’r’aps not, Mr. Pomfrey,” I ses quietly. “But
Mr. Quirk ’as got somethin’ to do with you, and you
know ’ow people talks about public men like yourself
every chance they gets. If I was you I’d persuade Mr.
Quirk to order them overalls in the city and save any
backbitin’.”
“It would give certain people a chance,” he ses
thoughtful. “Quirk me son-in-law, and Vivian me
friend. I’ll look into the matter, Raggles.”
As it ’appened I found meself inspectin’ Mr.
Vivian’s place for rats that day, and I tells ’im jokin’
that he soon won’t rekernise me in me nice new
overalls, and when he asks details I tells ’im all about
’em, addin’, just to save ’im any disappointment, that
they’re cornin’ from a shop in the city.
“Wot!” he ses. “With me ’ere, stockin’ a excel-
lent line of overalls. Ain’t the local ratepayers good
enough to supply the council?” he ses, thumpin’ ’is
counter savage. “I’ll ’ave somethin’ to say about this
at the Progress Association!”
He was still thumpin’ ’is counter and abusin’ the
council when I leaves ’im ; but he wasn’t no worse
than Mr. Pomfrey when I tells ’im about it.
“Blast the overalls!” shouts Mr. Pomfrey. “I
don’t want to ’ear no more about ’em. It’s a pity Quirk
ever thought of ’em. He can do wot he likes about
’em now. I washes me ’ands of the ’ole business.”
“Yes, Mr. Pomfrey,” I ses quietly ; “and then
you’ll be wringin’ ’em with sorrer and distress when
your good name’s mucked up. If you asks me, Mr.
Pomfrey, a good way out of it would be to give the job
of makin’ them overalls to some woman ’ere wot can
sew well. No one couldn’t complain then. Matter
of fact, everyone would be praisin’ you up for con-
siderin’ some deservin’ local woman.”
“My word, you’re right, Raggles,” he ses, quite
pleased. “I’ll get Quirk to make a few inquiries.”
I makes a few inquires meself when I’m on me
rounds again, and the results was amazin’. It was ’ard
to believe ’ow many expert tailoresses and dress-
makers was wastin’ their time with ordinary ’ouse-
work. I spent ’arf the day listenin’ to them wimmen
praisin’ up their sewin’ and lookin’ at things wot they
’ad made, although I kept tellin’ ’em that Mr. Quirk
was the one to see their sewin’ samples, not me.
You wouldn’t ’ave thought that that little remark
would ’ave caused trouble, and I didn’t meself until
I calls round to the council chambers the follerin’
evenin’ and finds a ’ole mob of wimmen in the pas-
sage. They was all complainin’ very loud to pore old
Conroy, the messenger, and wavin’ sewin’ samples at
’im, some in parcels wot was ’arf busted and some
wot should ’ave been in parcels. I manages to get
past and taps on Mr. Quirk’s office door and tells ’im
it’s me.
“Them wimmen! ” ses Mr. Quirk excited, after he
’ad unlocked ’is door very careful and let me in.
“They’ve been pesterin’ me all day. The place was
like a confounded junk shop till I ’ad ’em kept outside.”
“They’re still outside, Mr. Quirk,” I ses grave ;
“but from the way they’re be’avin’ they’ll all be inside
soon, unless you get the police to shift ’em.”
“Police!” he ses, shudderin’. “I can’t do that.
There’d be a terrible row in council.” He buries ’is
’ead in ’is ’ands and looks so miserable that I feels
miserable meself. And then it comes to me, sudden.
“Look ’ere, Mr. Quirk,” I ses. “ ’Ave I got your
permission to get them wimmen off the premises?”
“Permission !” he gulps.
“Right,” I ses brisk. I slips out, and after drag-
gin’ old Conroy away from Ma Parker, wot was
showin’ ’im a pair of rompers wot she ’ad made for
’er grandson, I gives ’im instructions in Mr. Quirk’s
name ; and two minutes later I was able to walk back
into the office and tell Mr. Quirk there wasn’t no need
to lock ’is door.
“ ’Ow on earth- did you manage it?” he ses.
“You’re a marvel, Raggles.”
“Not at all, Mr. Quirk,” I ses modest. “Strictly
speakin’, them wimmen ’ad no right cornin’ ’ere at
all.”
“I dunno ’ow they got to know about it,” he ses,
lookin’ bad-tempered again. “Mr. Pomfrey said he’d
leave it to me, and I ain’t mentioned it to” He stops
sudden, and jumps up. “You!” he ’owls. “It was
your idea. You’re the only other one wot knows, and
you’ve done this on purpose, you—you —schemin’
old”
“ ’Ow was I to know” I begins.
“Raggles,” he puts in in a queer shakin’ voice,
“you think this is goin’ to stop me from gettin’ them
overalls. Well, I’m goin’ to get ’em, and, wot’s more,
I’m goin’ to put you in a pair if it’s the last thing
I do!”
I tries to point out that I couldn’t be expected to
know that them wimmen would be’ave like they did,
but he wouldn’t listen. I argues for about twenty
minutes, tryin’ to prove me innercence, but it was no
good; and at last I turns to the door, ’opeless, just
as it was flung open, and Mr. Pomfrey comes ragin’
in, lookin’ as. though he’s goin’ to blow up, disastrous.
“Wot —wot’s the matter, sir?” ses Mr. Quirk.
“Matter!” yells Mr. Pomfrey. “Matter! Overalls,
that’s wot’s the matter. Them wimmen”
“Wimmen!” gasps Mr. Quirk, goin’ pale.
“Don’t try to look innercent,” shouts Mr. Pom-
frey. “Wot do you mean by sendin’ ’em round to me
with their —their sewin’ samples. Don’t deny it! They
told me they was sent round by your orders. They
mobbed me office —’arf wrecked the place!” He
walks over and shoves ’is face pretty near into Mr.
Quirk’s. “Look ’ere,” he ses, “if ever I ’ear of any
more of your fool ideas while you’re relievin’ Mr.
Wallis, I’ll see you never relieve ’im again as long as
I’m on the council. Understand? Overalls!” he
snorts. “You leave the men as they are. Overalls!
If ever I ’ear you mention that word again I’ll —I’ll
skin you alive, you lunatic!” And out he goes, and
out I goes after ’im, quick.
WANTED :
New Story Writers
Each month “The Bulletin” is offering a prize
of £5 for the best story by a new writer. Only
those who have not previously had stories
published in “The Bulletin” are eligible.
Stories must be short—lsoo to 3000 words.
Manuscripts must be marked “Short Story
Competition.”
In addition to the prize-money all stories
published will be paid for at the usual rates —
£2 2s. for each 1100 words.
Closing date for the fourth monthly com-
petition is October 7. The sooner entries are
sent in the sooner they can be read and judged.


Nine Lives May Be All Right, But This Was —
The PANTHON CAT
B Y HAROLD MERCER
DRAWINGS BY ARIA.
4 4 I T’S no wonder they call a cat a cat; I’m sure
I there isn’t another animal that is more like a
I woman than is a cat, besides the tomcat having
nine wives, which is scandalous,” said Mrs.
Parsley astonishingly. “I have had tenants who have
kept cats ; and experience does it, as is a well-known
classified saying.”
My landlady paused to enable me to consider
the truth of her outburst of unnatural history, but
her “conversational delibility” was in good working
order, and she went on almost immediately.
“Especially there was that black cat Tibby, that
belonged to Mr. and Mrs. Cuddlehop, which was
killed time and again and frightened the tenants by
coming back as a ghost each time. Which it was
enough to frighten anyone to see it sitting in the
sun washing its face, as cats do, when you knew it
was a thousand feathers deep, as the song says, lying
drowned in several feet of water in Rushcutters’ Bay.
“Never shall I forget the way the Major looked
when he told me. Not by the widest sketch of the
illumination could it be said that the Major had been
sober for two days; and he looked as if he had the
delirium with trimmings—he was shaking like an
aspirin, with his eyes all bleary and unshaven.
“ ‘Look at that animal; it’ll drive me mad, Mrs.
Parsley,’ he says. ‘1 drowned that cat, Mrs. Parsley —
three days ago! It’s driving me out of my mind to
see it there when I know it’s dead!’
“ ‘But if it’s alive it can’t be dead,’ I says.
“That only made him wilder; he said he was
not a supercilious man who believed in ghosts, but
that cat was a panthom if ever there was one, because,
after he had half emptied a bottle of whisky to get
over the shock of seeing it alive he had gone down
to where he had drowned it. When he dragged the
bag out of the water there was Tibby in it as dead as
a ninepin. The Major had to have another half-
bottle of whisky to recover from the shock of seeing
that, and he started drinking properly, especially every
time he saw that cat.
“There were cold bicycles running down my back
when he told me, for only half an hour earlier I had
nearly stroked that cat, which seemed more friendly
than usual. But people didn’t stroke Tibby much
because it used to scratch and bite without the least
invocation.
“Myself, I’m rather fond of cats, which is very
friendly animals as a rule, and like to be petted an’
make out they are very fond of you as long as you
feed them and let them do just what they like ; which
is like them women cats. But this Tibby wasn’t a
friendly one ; it was the most disagreeable cat you
ever saw.
“Directly them Cuddlehops came I thought there
seemed something sinecure about it, and about them,
too, which seemed very lazy people, and just like that
cat, especially about the eyes. I wouldn’t have let
them into the flats if I had known that that cat was
to be like one of them panthoms that haunt old
houses.
“But, there, if we could only read into the starry
past as we can into the futurity a lot of my tenants
would never have been my tenants only over my
dead body.
n ‘'"THAT cat,’ says Mr. Cuddlehop the first day,
* ‘is nineteen years old.’
“ ‘That’s a little over two years for each of its
nine wives,’ says Mr. Slompack, though I didn’t think
it was the kind of cat that had nine wives.
“ ‘That’s its age all the same,’ says Mr. Cuddlehop.
“Why it was with its aboriginal owner four years
before we took charge of it fifteen years ago. If I
caught anyone trying to injure Tibby I’d murder him.’
“That was a shock to hear him say the cat had
belonged to blacks, though they may have counted
for it being so savage ; and I didn’t like to hear Mr.
Cuddlehop talk about murder either. Which he must
have guessed that that cat wouldn’t be liked.
“It hadn’t been in the flats two days before every-
body hated it, and Mrs. Turner said it had a devil.
It had gone for me, ferocious as a tiger, when I
went to pat it. And Mr. Slompack and a lot of others
had been scratched and bitten. Mr. Wassail said it
* was probably being so old that made it disagreeable
until it scratched Mrs. Wassail, and she gave him
such a time about if he was a man he’d go and talk
to Mr. Cuddlehop. What a lot of people did have
words with Mr. Cuddlehop, especially them that had
birds. That Tibby wasn’t too lazy about going after
birds, which it seemed to believe a bird in the cage
was worth two in the bush.
“ ‘lt’s nat’ral for a cat to go for birds,’ says Mr.
Cuddlehop, sour-like. ‘lf people are silly enough to
keep birds. There ain’t no profit in keeping birds.’
“ ‘There isn’t any profit in keeping cats,’ says
Mr. Slompack.
“ ‘Oh, ain’t they?’ says Mr. Cuddlehop, cunning-
like. Which Mrs. Turner says that perhaps they was
a pair of witches and Tibby was their witch-cat, and
that was how they got their money. ‘There’s evil
spirits in this house since they came, anyway ; and
I should know because, being an invalid who might
die any day, I’m physic,’ she says.
“Seeing how nervy she was I was glad she didn’t
hear about Tibby being a dead cat alive about the
place. If she thought that a dog howling showed
she was going to die I don’t know what she would
have thought of that.
“It was Miss Perry who came downstairs scream-
ing one night, saying that the cat had been scratching
at her window, and she wasn’t going to have dead
cats coming into her flat. She had got to know about
the Major having killed it, so I got Mr. Slompack
and Mr. Wassail to help me lead her into my flat,
where she had histories.
“ ‘My good woman, you must be reasonable,’
says Mr. Slompack. ‘Tibby isn’t a dead cat.’
“ ‘Oh, yes it is! ’ said Mr. Wassail. ‘The thing’s
been giving me the creeps. To see that cat about the
place when I knew it was killed —it’s made me feel
queer.’
“ ‘Yes,’ I said, ‘the Major drowned it in Rush-
cutters’ Bay.’
“Mr. Wassail stared at me like a codfish out of
the water that passes under the bridge.
“ ‘No, he didn’t,’ he said. 7 shot it. I saw a
chance one night when it was in the yard. That was
a week ago. It was dead all right, and I carried it
away and put it in one of the garbage-boxes at the
end of the lane. You might remember; the next
day the Cuddlehops made all that fuss about Tibby
being missing. When it came back again next day
I was astoundered. It’s made me feel creepy ever
since.’
“Well, of all the blunders that never cease! I
didn’t know whether I was on my heads or my tails,
as the saying is. And they all were the same way
when I told them, only Miss Perry had histories worse,
and I’m sure she would have fainted if Mr. Slompack
hadn’t got round the other side of the table so that
he wouldn’t have to catch her if she fell. Which it
was enough to drive people extracted. According to
what he said, Mr. Wassail had shot that cat three days
before the Major had drowned it, and yet there was
that animal in the yard, which we could hear it
meowing below my window.
“Mr. Slompack said that about there being
stranger things than our foolish Sophies dream about,
and Miss Perry said she’d never be able to sleep in
a house where there was a cat which was only a pan-
thom of a cat. Which I said I wasn’t going to have
things like that in my flats, and I would give them
Cuddlehops notice; but Mr. Slompack didn’t see
how I could do that, and anyway if the cat was a
panthom it might stay behind. Which he said that
he didn’t believe in panthoms, and that the Major
and Mr. Wassail must have been mistook.
“We might have been talking about it until now
but that meowing in the yard suddenly ended in a cat
scream; there was a dreadful bumping sound, and
then there was quiet.
“Mr. Cuddlehop was coming down the stairs
when we all went out to see what was the matter.
‘Somebody’s been trying to hurt Tibby,’ he says. ‘lf
I find who it is I’ll half-murder him.’
“Downstairs he went; we could hear him calling
‘Tibby, Tibby’ out in the yard, which he kept on
doing for a long time while I was trying to get Miss
Perry to go up to her flat and not be historical and
the men were helping. And then up the stairs comes
Mr. Bootle, who has Number 21.
“ ‘Well, that’s the finish of Cuddleshop’s cat,’ he
says. ‘lt tripped me up on the stairs when I was
coming in last night, and scratched me. I said I’d
get the brute ; and I got it in the yard with a batten.
“ ‘You killed it?’ asked Mr. Slompack, which I
thought he was going to censor him.
“ ‘Too right I did,’ says Mr. Bootle. ‘Old Cuddle-
hop will have to do a lot of calling. I took the body
down the street and threw it down the drain.’
“ ‘You’d better not let Cuddlehop know ; he’ll be
ropable,’ said Mr. Slompack.
“‘I don’t care if he knows,’ says Mr. Bootle ;
‘but he won’t know unless you people put the show
away.’
“There was Mr. Cuddlehop wandering about the
yard and the lane all night calling Tibby ; and next
day, when there wasn’t any cat about the place, it
seemed that that was the last of it, even if it was a
panthom.
‘ ‘'THE day after that, as I was working in my
1 kitchen with the flat door open to hear anyone
coming up the stairs, I felt something rub against my
leg. It was like that pome says about the schooner
Haspirate: she shuddered and paws like a frightened
steed, then leaped a table’s length—only it was up in
the air I leaped. For it was that Tibby that had
rubbed against my leg! And it wasn’t only that I
knew that cat had been shot and drowned and bashed
on the head, but it was uncandy, as they call it, for
Tibby to be so friendly.
“I was that terrified that I was up at the Cuddle-
hops’ flat hammering at their door and telling them
to take their cat and get out before I knew where \
was.
“ ‘Why should your nerves be in this state of
k.os. because our cat came into your flat, Mrs.
Parsley?’ asked Mrs. Cuddlehop. ‘I hope you’re not
irresponsible for poor Tibby having disappeared once
or twice.’
“ ‘Me?’ I cries, flappergasted ; of course I didn’t
want to tell them about me knowing that Tibby had
been killed. And because of what Mr. Cuddlehop
said about murdering anyone who hurt Tibby, I didn’t
want to let on about the Major and Mr. Wassail and
Mr. Bootle.
“ ‘I don’t like cats that are a boney distension in
the place,’ I says, ‘and there’s something uncandy about
Tibby.’
“ ‘Well, Mrs. Parsley, we like our flat here,’ says
Mr. Cuddlehop, ‘and we intend to stay. If we go
we’ll want to know who tried to hurt Tibby first. Not
that, anybody could hurt that cat. Even if they killed
it, Tibby would still come back.’
“You talk about them witches that there Shak-
speare wrote about that were for ever blowing bubbles,
bubbles, toil and troubles! I felt as if I was standing
alongside their scald-can, in that flat with them people,
especially when the cat came in meowing just as if
it was a friendly animal; and glad was Ito get out,
all shaking as I was. And who should I meet on the
stairs but that Mr. Bootle, who looked as if he’d
seen a ghost.
“ ‘Mrs. Parsley,’ he says, ‘l’m sober, ain’t I?’
“ ‘For all I know,’ I says, sharp.
“ ‘I haven’t had a drink,’ he says, ‘but I could
have sworn I saw that cat Tibby running up the
stairs just now ; and yet I know that Tibby crossed
the Sticks. Which I took him to mean the backyard
fence.
“ ‘Look! There it is! ’he cries, grabbing my arm,
which upset me more than I was already, and point-
ing up the stairs. ‘I must be suffering from depressions.
I think I will go and have a drink.’
“From the noise he made when he came home
that night, he certaintly did.
ii IT was terrible having a panthom in the house,
1 especially when I was scared to tell the Cuddle-
hops that I knew the cat was dead. By this time
everybody had heard that that cat had been killed,
though not many knew how often ; and though every-
body was a bit ashamed of believing there could be
such a thing as a panthom cat everybody was uncom-
fortable.
“That cat seemed to have a devil in it, too ; now
that it knew that people knew it was dead, it pre-
tended to be friendly, and tried to come up to people
to be petted, or scratched at flat windows to be let
in. When some women gave a scream you knew it
was that, or if there was a hurry of footsteps and
the slam of a door it was someone getting away from
that Tibby, which was following them.
“As Mr. Slompack said, there was an estate of
tendon in the whole place; that’s what made it give
me quite a shock when some visitors came and asked
about them Cuddlehops and if they owned a cat,
especially when the elderly gentleman said he was an
executioner, which he didn’t look like. In fact, he
looked a very mild old gentleman. But the young
man who was with him seemed angry.
“ ‘There, you see, there is a cat, and it’s name is
Tibby,” said the old gentleman.
“‘But nineteen years old! It’s preprosperous!’
says the young man.


“ ‘This isn’t idol’s curios, Mrs. Parsley,’ says the
old gentleman, which very polite he was. ‘I am the
trusty executioner of a estate in which the Cuddle-
hops are disinterested —and so is this young man, Mr.
Hardy. We came to see the Cuddlehops, but as they
didn’t seem to be in their flat Ah, here they
are! ”
“Them Cuddlehops were coming up the stairs
puffing like them gramorpoises. They was very
polite to the old gentleman, which it seems his name
was Mr. Deedswell, although the way they looked at
young Mr. Hardy was like them daggers withdrawn,
as they say.
“‘Why, come to the flat, Mr. Deedswell,’ says
Mrs. Cuddlehop. ‘You know we’re always glad to
see you! And I suppose young Mr. Hardy will want
to come, too.’
“‘Yes, I’ll come,’ he says, and gives a laugh.
‘Just because I know I’m not wanted.’
“But just as he was following them there comes
that young Miss Taylor that shared an upstairs flat
with a friend, coming down the stairs. They both
stared at one another, flappergasted.
“‘Edna!’ he cries. Then he dashes up a few
stairs to meet her. Not being a peeping Tom that
hears no good of themselves, I don’t know what they
said ; but when I came out of my flat again there she
was sitting on the lounge at the top of the stairs.
“ ‘You know that young gentleman?’ I says.
“ ‘Yes,’ she says, with that telltale blush, as them
books say, which tells the way the last straw is blow-
ing. ‘l’ve known Mr. Hardy a long time, in fact
Well, Mrs. Parsley, I thought he was too wild, so I
moved from where I was staying. He didn’t know
1 was here ; and I was surprised to see him. I’m
waiting for him.’
“ ‘Not that I expect it will make any difference,’
she adds, ‘although he says he will stop being wild
and settle down if I’m —if I’m friends with him again.
He says he’s trying to get some money which will
help him make a fresh start.’
“My heart was all aflutter to think that there
was roomance, which I could see it was, on my very
stairs. That was something, I says to myself, to take
my mind off panthom cats. But it seemed it wasn’t,
because the first thing I hears them talking about when
I passed, casual-like, was cats.
<<"‘F HAT was after Mr. Deedswell and Mr. Hardy
' had come away from the Cuddlehops’ flat, Mr.
Hardy talking as angrily as the horns of the bull in
the pome ; but Mr. Deedswell was shaking his head.
“ ‘You’re a preduseed party, Ron,’ he says. ‘I
just take the facts as I find them.’
“ ‘But’ Mr. Hardy was beginning to say
something when "he saw Miss Taylor sitting on the
couch. He told Mr. Deedswell that he would see him
in the office, and went over to her.
“ ‘All you’ve got to do, Edna,’ is what I heard,
which it was after they’d been talking a long time,
‘is to get the cat into your flat. Then you can put
it into a basket and bring it down to me. Oh,’ he
says, when she says something, speaking very low, ‘the
cat won’t be hurt. I’ll send it to my cousin’s little
daughter up at Tamworth.’
“ ‘Oh, it’s stealing, Ron! ’ she says.
“ ‘They’re cheating, Edna,’ he says. * ‘lt’s for you
and me. I want you, darling ; and that wasting my
money as I did is a back number. When I get a
start again’
“I couldn’t take so long passing up the stairs that
I could hear any more; but having heard so much I
had an idea what was happening when I saw Miss
Taylor go down the stairs in the morning with a
dress-basket, and I thought I heard a ‘meow’ come
from it. A little later there was that Mr. Cuddlehop
going all over the place asking people if they had seen
the cat and calling ‘Tibby, Tibby.’ Very upset and
angry he seemed. But for my part I was glad if Miss
Taylor had got the thing away, which it seemed to me
if it wasn’t killed again it couldn’t have a ghost.
“The whole place seemed relieved at that pan-
thom cat being gone ; the tenants grinned when they
heard Mrs. Cuddlehop and, soon, Mr. Cuddlehop, too,
going about calling Tibby; and the Major nearly
kept sober.
“And then there was that Tibby back again!
“Which it didn’t seem possible to me after it had
been killed three times and then sent to Tamworth.
But there it was, giving me the creeps again.
“That Mr. Deedswell had returned, and Mr. Hardy,
looking like that corn-curing hero they wrote the
song about, with him, which it was him that called
out when they met Mr. Cuddlehop on the stairs,
‘Where’s that cat of yours now?’ Which it seemed
plain he knew it was over the hills and fade away, as
the saying goes, at Tamworth.
“ ‘Mr. Hardy insisted that I should come, Mr.
Cuddlehop,’ says Mr. Deedswell, almost apologetic.
“ ‘Oh, did he?’ sneers Mr. Cuddlehop. ‘lt’s about
the cat, is it? Well, what about that ?’
“There before my horridified eyes was that cat
coming along the corridor; and when Mrs. Cuddle-
hop calls ‘Tibby!’ it comes at a run. For a moment
I was putrified to the spot; but as it came nearer it
was too much for me. I just gave a yell and rushed
away to shut myself in my flat.
“When I could recollect my censers, as they say,
I heard-them men arguing there. ‘Oh, well, you win—
for the time being,’ I heard Mr. Hardy say at last;
and then there he was tapping at my door asking me
where Miss Taylor was. Which I told him she was
down in the yard drying her hair, she having told me
she would do that. He went down so quick that he
fell right over a case that was lying near the door.
I heard the clatter and what he said, which was hardly
the words of a gentleman.
“As the Bible says, little strings make great causes
spring in the air, and I didn’t know then that that
was to have a big result.
“But what I did know was that them Cuddlehops
was going to go. It was too much for me to have a
cat in the house which was there after it had been
killed and was in Tamworth and here at the same
time ; and I thought to myself that if that panthom
cat still stayed after the Cuddlehops was gone I would
have to get them Fistical Researchers to see what they
could do to get rid of it. Why, I was almost fright-
ened to go about my flats because of the shock of
seeing that Tibby that should have been dead. But go
up to the Cuddlehops and tell them to go I did, though
it was in fear and trembling I did it.
“ ‘lt’s that Ron Hardy put you up to this, Mrs.
Parsley,’ says Mrs. Cuddlehop. ‘All right; we’ll go—
but we will stay here till our week’s up. And you
may be sorry.’
“The way she said it made my blood all cordial.
I began to think they and that cat of theirs had some-
thing to do with the devil, as Mrs. Turner said ; what
they might do made me frightened. And when I woke
in the morning with the whole place seeming full of
yells and banging on doors, as if panderharmoniums
was let loose, it seemed to me that that Nemo’s Sis
had come home to roost, as the saying is. And the first
thing I saw was that Tibby sitting on one of my
chairs!
“That cat seemed to have a devil in it, too ;
now that it knew that pe-ople knew it was dead,
it pretended to be friendly, and tried to come
up to people to be petted, or scratched at flat
windows to be let in. As Mr. Slompack said,
there was an estate of tendon in the whole-
place.”
“How I got to the door I don’t remember, but
I was almost as historical myself as them women who
had been hammering at it, talking about panthom
cats being all over the place and having got into their
flats. And that was just as things was.
“T'HAT panthom cat seemed to have broken up
* into a dozen Tibbys; some of the men were
chasing them out, not liking them any more than we
wimmen did. But it seemed as if it could be nothing
but the devil’s work, a cat that was dead dividing itself
into a whole lot of cats which, when you looked at
them, was the same, and everyone of which, if any-
body said Tibby, looked as if it had been called.
“It was Bethlehem let loose, with us women all
grouped together, some screaming when more of them
cats rushed past; I’m sure if it hadn’t been for Mr.
Slompack some of us would have gone mad.
“But the darkest cloud is always before the silver
lining; and Mr. Slompack came down the stairs with
his hand on a young man’s coat collar which he was
pushing ahead of him. And Mr. Cuddlehop was fol-
lowing, saying the boy had a message for him and
he would deal with him.
“ ‘No,’ says Mr. Slompack, ‘this young man has
something to say which the people in this place ought
to hear. It’ll set their minds at rest. Out with it,
youngster; say why you brought all those cats.’
“It made them plantations in my heart not so
bad to hear them cats had been brought instead of
being Tibby split up into a crowd of ’em.
“ ‘Me father said Mr. Cuddle’op could keep ’is
own cats,’ says the young man, which it seemed he
was glad to speak. ‘There was us with black cats
all over the place, and all called Tibby, so that when-
ever Mr. Cuddle’op wanted a cat it was there fer
’im. Dad didn’t know why Mr. Cuddle’op wanted
the so-and-so cats, and why ’e always took the eldest;
but when Mr. ’Ardy told ’im that Mr. Cuddle’op ’ad
been makin’ over five quid a week out of it, an’
only payin’ ’im a few deeners, ’e got sore. ’E ses,
“Mr. Cuddle’op can keep ’is own blasted cats ’imself”;
an’ sent me in with them.’
“‘Well, who’s the winner, now, Cuddlehop?’
says a voice I reckernised ; and there, coming out of
the crowd what had gathered round the stairs, I saw
that Mr. Hardy there with Mr. Deedswell, as if they
was them solemnised twins, in spite of the difference
in their ages. And Mr. Deedswell did look a
an executioner, as he said he was, the way he looked
at Mr. Cuddlehop.
“ ‘I wouldn’t have found out about that farm
where you kept your cats for emerging agencies,’ says
Mr. Hardy in a jubilee tone of voice, ‘if you hadn’t
left a crate with the farm address on it, and your
name, lying in the yard where I fell over it.’
“ ‘So, Mr. Cuddlehop,’ says Mr. Deedswell slowly,
‘you rang the changes with those cats. You always
had a new one when one died. I was too easy as a
trusty executioner.’
“ ‘You cheated me, Cuddlehop,’ he says. ‘You
can be persecuted for fraud. It’s an interdictable
defence, Cuddlehop; and your game is up.’
“Which all that was said was Confucius worse,
confound it, as the saying is, to me ; only I was glad
to know them cats wasn’t ghosts, and it was Balaam
to my soul to see them Cuddlehops, who had made
such a lot of trouble, leave the place like conflicted
thieves, as if staying in the place where their probity
had been exposed was girls and wormwood to them.
It was Mr. Slompack who explained what it was all
about.
“ ‘Open profession is good for the sole, Mrs.
Parsley,’ Mr. Slompack, said (which that is why, I
daresay, you never hear of a policeman with corns on
his feet). ‘I must confess that those cats made me feel
creepy. It seems that Mr. Hardy’s grandmother was
very fond of a cat named Tibby, and when she made
her last willing testimonial she provided a trust fund
of five thousand in Collingwood bonds to provide for
the cat. As long as Tibby lived, the income was to
go to Mr. and Mrs. Cuddlehop, who were old ser-
vants, if they looked after Tibby. Those Cuddle-
hops were caretakers for a time, but after a while
they decided, being lazy people, that they might live
on Tibby for good by having cats looking like it
ready to take its place when it died.
“ ‘This Deedswell seems to have been an easy-
going executioner, and as long as he saw a cat
now and then he was satisfied. But young Hardy
found out about there being some more money to
come to him when the cat died. He was an orphan
from when he was four, and when he got his
money, when he became an adulterer, he was
mainly occupied in spending it. It was when he met
a girl who made him feel he wanted to settle down,
and he wanted some money to make a real start,
that he became curious and started to worry the
Cuddlehops. Well, he’s bowled them out, and
he’ll get the money now.
“T think I’d better wake ’em up,’ says Mr.
Slompack grinning. ‘They’ve been sitting in the
lounge all the morning close together, and they
seem full of oblivion that it’s long past lunchtime.’
“Which that course of true love did
certainly seem to be running to smoodge
with those two. And after all that pan-
thom cat, although it seems it wasn’t a
panthom after all, was the one that had
brought them together. Which so they
tell me they have a black cat in their
house now, and they call it Tibby.”


IMPERIAL PORTABLE
BABY EMPIRE PORTABLE
The ONLY completely BRITISH Portable Typewriters sold in
AUSTRALIA.
ż
INSPECT ONE AT OUR EXPENSE.
IT IS NOT SUGGESTED THAT
YOU BUY these typewriters
because they are made in
ENGLAND . . .
BUT They are LOWER in price.
They are BETTER MADE.
They are LIGHTER in
weight.
ž
See Your Tele-
phone Book for
Ag en t s All
States.
DOBELL PTY., LIMITED,
107 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
43 CREEK STREET, BRISBANE.
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
THE INVESTOR AND THE CRISIS.
HOW WARS ARE FINANCED.
STOCKS WORTH WATCHING.
MINING NEWS ALL FIELDS.
September Issue Now On Sale.
PRICE 2/- PER COPY, or £l/2/6 PER ANNUM POSTED.
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd., 252 George Street, Sydney, and all States.
moment of imminent dispossession to the end of the
family road, its dispersal in California. Grandpa Joad
stands for a lot. In him the two aspects of American
pioneering—migration and settlement —fight a battle.
Until the moment of departure he is all for the west-
ward trail. He is for leaving old troubles behind,
following new hopes across the horizons. In Cali-
fornia you “just put out your hand and take an orange
off the tree when you feel like it.” That is the homely
symbol of El Dorado.
But Grandpa helped his father clear the soil, and
at the last he has to be carried out, kicking and cry-
ing, and dumped in the loaded car. Ma Joad sits
between the driver and Grandma. As the car pulls
out she tries to have one last look back at the deserted
cottage, but the load cuts off her view. “She straight-
ened her head and peered straight ahead along the
road. And a great weariness was in her eyes.”
It is Ma who accepts the practical working out of
Grandpa’s dream of the westward trail. She holds the
family together, gathering in the few coins earned by
the men at occasional jobs, counting the pennies spent
for supplies along the road. Her financial problem is
one of nourishment for the family as against petrol
and repairs to the worn-out car. Along Route 66-
wolves in the eyes of the travellers, but in their own
eyes just people trying to make a living—are the more
or less temporary traders, out to mulct the stream of
migrants. Against these Ma wages a running fight.
She has also the troubles of the aged and the children
to carry, and anxiety for a grown daughter close to
having a baby. Ma is the American woman of the
covered wagon all over again, but in circumstances
less romantic than shabby.
In California the Joads run into the western vari-
ant of the Oklahoma difficulties, small orchardists
being devoured with greater or lesser willingness by
“land development” companies that are themselves but
the tools of blind impersonal forces. The Joads get
work fruit-picking, and find themselves being escorted
to the orchard camp by State police on motor-cycles
through angry ranks of families on strike against a
cut in rates for picking. Young Tom Joad gets into a
fight with pickhandles between strike pickets and
strike-breakers. Tom is no scab, but the family has
been living for days on “mush” ; the men’s systems
are craving meat, the children badly need clothes and
the sister with the new baby must have proper care.
Some men are killed in the fight and Tom has to bolt.
The book ends with Pa Joad on a night of storm try-
ing vainly to drain the floodwaters away from the
family camp while inside the young mother stints her
child in an attempt to save a dying man.
In The Grapes of Wrath Steinbeck is writing in
the same vein as in his earlier novel, Of Mice and
Men. Despite the tragic nature of the story there are
lyrical overtones that save it from drabness. He sings
the beauty of the earth and the courage of man set
against the inhuman progress of the machine. Inferen-
tially his book is a restatement of the idea that man
must master the machine or be devoured by it. For
him the machine is symbolised in the tractor. After
the departure of the Joads from their Oklahoma farm
he returns to the scene for a brief elegaic chapter:
The houses were left vacant on the land, and the
land was vacant because of this The tractors had
lights shining, for there is no day and night for a
tractor, and the disks turn the earth in the darkness
and they glitter in the light When the horse stops
work and goes into the barn there is a life and a vitality
left, there is a breathing and a warmth, and the feet
shift on the straw, and the jaws champ the hay, and
the ears and the eyes are alive. There is a warmth of
life in the barn. But when the motor of a tractor
stops it is as dead as the ore it came from The man
walking on the earth, turning his plough point for a
stone, dropping his handles to slide over an outcrop-
ping, knows the land But when the corrugated-iron
doors are shut the tractor man drives home to town,
perhaps 20 miles away, and his home is not the land.
Mr. Priestley Sees It Through.
Heinemann has just published J. B. Priestley’s
much-discussed play, Johnson Over Jordan, in book
form, complete with illustrations. ,The now inevitable
explanatory essay is there, but placed at the back
instead of the front. It is unnecessary, for the play
is a perfectly lucid piece of work.
Recently Priestley has shown a strong interest in
Time. In fact, he has pretty well adopted it as his
special territory, exploiting it in at least two recent
plays, Time and the Conways and / Have Been There
Before. Johnson Over Jordan juggles with time
sequence and represents the action as taking place in
Timelessness, the crack between two worlds, this and
the next. In each of the three plays his attitude to his
subject is different. He is not propounding a philosophy
of Time or even following up a scientific theory. He is
simply exploiting an interesting gadget for what novel
dramatic effect it yields. The approach is neither in-
tellectual nor scientific, but mechanistic, an attack on
the nerves rather than the intelligence of the audi-
ence, without trouble to put foundations under a very
showy superstructure.
Johnson Over Jordan begins when Robert Johnson
is newly dead and the funeral service is being read in
his home prior to the burial. He was a respectable
citizen of the middle-class, manager of a big firm, and
he leaves behind him a sorrowing wife and two
children. The mourners are blacked out and Johnson’s
post-mortem trail is followed through three inter-
mediate stages between life and the final passing on.
The first is a fantasia on his business life, a
turbid dream of a super office with a ballet of clerks,
all the harassing exaggerations of office torture that
the author can think of, and ending in an encounter
with a death’s-head, who, unmasked, proves to be
nothing more terrifying than a sensible and pleasant
young workman. (Tennyson, by the way, had a similar
idea in “Gareth and Lynette.”)
The second act shows the pilgrim in a fantastic
and sinister night club patronised by guests in animal
masks. He is purging his lower nature. In the grand
climax he tries to seduce a masked girl and kills the
youth who rushes to defend her, only to discover that
they are his son and daughter. When the death’s-
head appears again he prays that he may die.
He learns that this was only a shadow world sent
to try him, and in the third act passes on to the Inn
at the World’s End, where he meets again all the
people he has loved and admired, is able to iron out
all the creases of his daily life and taste once more
its brightest hours. Then he is led away by Death,
now in the guise of a young Apollo, into another and
better world. His little figure in bowler hat and carry-
ing an attache case is last seen walking into a starry
immensity. The scene offers great opportunities for
pawkiness, none of which the author misses.
Imagine a blend of Strindberg and Maeterlinck,
much solidified, into which has been thrust a little
man with his heart in the right place, whose
worst crime was to abstract two shillings’ worth
of stamps—replaced next day—from the office drawer,
who is touchingly in love with his wife after 30 years
of marriage, and you have a fair idea of Johnson
Over Jordan. Technically it is most elaborate and
guaranteed to give a producer brain fever, with its
ballet, masks, insets, dissolving scenes, changing lights,
etc. Practically every device of the stage is employed
in one vast complication. It cost a lot to put over and
had a chequered career.
In the essay, “All About It,” Priestley gives a
most illuminating explanation of his motives in writ-
ing the play. He had four main intentions. He wanted
to get away from the ordinary “rubber-stamp effects”
of the stage. He wanted to jolt the British Theatre,
gently withering of its own inertia, into new life with
a heroic experiment. He wanted to galvanise drama
by fully extending it on the rack of stage technique.
And: “Ever since last September the London public
had been living in a state of tension, taut with anxiety
in a darkening tragic world. It needed release, and
we hoped that if this production were successful it
would help people to obtain release. Yes, catharsis
was the word.” He wanted to give people “a great
experience.” The play, apparently, is the least of it.
Aside from its effect in having caused the dramatist
to take his eye off the ball, such conscious philanthropy
is a little overpowering.
A Woman's Personal Chronicle.
Keep Off Death /, by Elizabeth G. Echlin
(Hodge), is the personal chronicle of a woman’s con-
quest by sheer grit of a condition the doctors had de-
clared hopeless. Apparently robust as a child—
round-faced, with bright red cheeks, blue eyes and a
thick mop of black curly hair” —she had strange
attacks of pain which kept her from school and filled
her with anger and shame. It was diagnosed as indi-
gestion and/or nerves until an operation for appen-
dicitis revealed a tubercular condition which turned
in her teens to tubercular peritonitis.
For the next 20 years her life was a journey in
and out of hospitals, sanatoria, clinics and operating
theatres. To the struggle for life was added the
struggle to live, for from her twenties onward she
had no one to depend on but herself. Office work
was too much for her. She taught herself French,
Italian, German, to play the violin, to handle and
catalogue rare manuscripts, and a dozen other things.
She was never beaten and has an unconquerable zest
for life:
The curious thing is that agony can get me in every
nook and cranny—l can be desperate with the world’s
troubles, and with my own—and then I have the
immeasurable joy of looking out of my pit of misery,
and seeing a bird’s wings flashing against the blue mist
of spring, and feeling then, with a pang at my heart,
“Oh, Beauty abideth! Beauty abideth!” And then
back again to my pit of misery, where that misery is
less black under the flashing of that bright bird’s wing.
To-day she has found a way of living that is
normal, full and happy. She has conquered her disease
—she says—even if it kills her. There is in this book
something akin to the story of Helen Keller.
Keep Off —Death ! has some faults of style. It
begins very self-consciously and, though it becomes
more natural as it progresses and is pleasantly leav-
ened with humor, it never outgrows a tendency to
italics and exclamation marks. It is easy to see why
the various novels Elizabeth Echlin attempted were
not successes. This is possibly the one story she had
to tell. Its supreme importance to herself and her
natural sincerity enabled her to bring it off despite the
odds. In this it refers back to the pattern of her life.
Four Good Thrillers.
It is not often that from the spate of crime-detec-
tion yarns one can make such a catch as the four yarns
netted this week. Three are by writers new, or almost
new, to thriller fans. The exception is The Coun-
sellor (Hodder and Stoughton ; Dymock’s), from the
experienced pen of J. J. Conington.
Conington writes about Mark Brand, a wealthy
young man who wishes to find work along original
lines, takes up broadcasting and, under the title of
“The Counsellor,” holds a daily session in which he
answers requests for advice on every conceivable sub-
ject. He receives a letter asking him to trace the
whereabouts of a missing girl. The search for her
leads him to investigate various sidelines, from the
activities of a nudist camp to abduction, dope-running
and murder.
In Postscript to Poison, by Dorothy Bowers
(Hodder and Stoughton ; Dymock’s), the main charac-
ters are women. An old widow, ex-actress and
never any better than she should be, is murdered ;
two young girls and an elderly spinster devoted to the
art of anonymous letter-writing are suspects. A house-
maid is a further victim. The book is well-written, full
of movement and replete with good character-drawing.
Miss Bowers may yet rival Dorothy Sayers.
In Puzzle for Players (Gollancz; Angus and
Robertson) Patrick Quentin follows up his initial suc-
cess with Puzzle for Fools, and gives an ingenious and
carefully-worked-out story of stage life in New York.
Quentin evidently knows his New York theatre inside
out. He supplies a lengthy cast, but gives the characters
such variety and individuality that one never finds any
difficulty in following their adventures or in differen-
tiating between them. Peter Duluth, the producer of
a play which is to restore his fortunes, tells the story
in the first person. He introduces the author of the
play; his stage manager; Dr. Lenz, his financial
backer; Mirabelle Rue, his leading lady; Conrad
Wessler, who plays opposite her ; and twenty or more
others of the cast.
The story unfolds while the actors are rehearsing,
and their idiosyncrasies, jealousies and amours are the
background. The superstitions of theatreland play a
great part, with a welter of cats, broken mirrors, coffins
and rats. There is a hoodoo on the play. But despite
these melodramatic adjuncts, it is a plain, straight-
forward story, and the murders and mysteries take
their place logically. The ending comes as a complete
surprise.
The Mine of 111 Omen, by Hugh Lea (Hodder
and Stoughton; Dymock’s), is more an adventure
story than one of crime and its detection ; and it is
decidedly the least interesting of the four. The venue
is laid in Cornwall, and the action takes place among
the deserted tinmines, the quicksands and bogs which
lie near the southern coast of that county. Buried
treasure plays its part, and two murders at least are
introduced. “Lord Joe,” confidence man, “fence” and
philanthropist on occasion, is a particularly well-drawn
figure. The detective in charge of the case is both its
villain and its hero.


V 1
7,
s.
%
Dt»
\
X
m.
OLFE
PRODUCT OF HOLLAND
—» THIS
gjgWATIC ALCOHOLIC BEVERACI!
assfactured exclusively in Holland, ai
EmmTed not only pure from every injr
property and ingredient, but it is also
acxLpossible quality****** _____
attention of Acsets.and
if tnrited to the Signanjre*aBd address <st
Wy -and to the Title or this AromaUer _•
Ulrwlintier' Cordial. embo{sql* ftp the'sides 01
■*—Same as protection «*smst inferior ai
hinua imitations. ••••
_3Jt and every attempt at infringement will |
Tweewwlyeogutiniwdnnd the inf ringers v,‘
H*IT:IPIHT6FU)ZS.
C ’ S S t C att hotl i"
a t/ £*
jottles.
W olfe’s Schnapps is the ideal appetiser
Wolfe’s Schnapps—renowned for generations as an
appetiser of rare value —aids the digestive organs
to function properly. Its mild yet potent medicinal
action greatly assists the proper assimilation of food
and drink.
A glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps taken regularly before
meals rids the system of impurities and has lasting
beneficial effects. Wolfe’s Schnapps is a helpful tonic
beverage and contains medicinal properties not
found in any other spirit.
WOLFE’S
<zzsi*onidhjC Scfmdam
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S
SAKE
W. 5.144.8.


ROYAL
PURPLE- PARA
{Pcfd 'Him cfWie mellcumeuandlvuq/ueb
THE WAR OFFICE, WHITEHALL.
Of peculiar and increasing import-
ance to the Empire is this dignified
and beautiful building in White-
hall, wherein it has been truly said
“the Empire’s Brains of Defence
meet.” Erected between 1899 and
1906 from designs by the late Wil-
liam Young, at a cost of over
£1,000,000, it may be said to be
not unassociated with that “Empire
Awaking” for which the South
African War was responsible. It
is one of the largest departments
of State, containing 1000 rooms,
and the corridors, if placed end on,
would extend for more than two
and a half miles. Prior to 1899,
the War Office was housed in a
dreary, plain building in Pall Mall
on the site of which that vast and
super-luxurious establishment, the
Royal Automobile Club, now
stands, conveying the impression,
when the adjacent dignified and
classical structures housing many
of the great clubs are noted, of an
“interloper.” However, despite its
ultra-modernity and splendor of
internal arrangements, it is a most
definite improvement on the build-
ing it replaced. Passing along
Whitehall from Trafalgar Square,
the visitor’s attention cannot fail to
be drawn to this huge and archi-
tecturally pleasing structure, almost
facing the Horse Guards. The
work carried on here increases in
exact ratio with Empire develop-
ment and the continually growing
world responsibilities that develop-
ment brings in its train. The War
Office, howsoever regarded, is one
of the most important buildings in
London and, it might be added, this
Imperial realm.


ON HIS KNEES AGAIN.
“In those hours of August, 1914, I sank upon my knees and with an overflowing heart I thanked heaven for having accorded me the happiness of being alive at such a time."
—Hitler in “Mein Kampf.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man.”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney; Box
252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Gordon & Gotch (Aus.), Ltd.,
Adelaide.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp. G.P.0.),
Wellington.
London : l Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street, London,
E.C.4.
Terms to Subscribers in Advance.
Posted Free to any address in Australasia,
weekly: 12 months, £1 45.; 6 months, 12s. 6d.;
3 months, 7s. (Exchange must be added to Country
and inter-State cheques.)
Posted Free to any address Overseas (British
Empire): 12 months, £1 10s.; 6 months, 15s. 6d.;
3 months, Bs.
Posted Free to any address Overseas {Foreign):
12 months, £2 3s. 4d.; 6 months, £1 25.;
3 months, 11s.
Postage on the Paper.
Commonwealth, New Zealand, Papua, Fiji, New
Hebrides and other places within the British Empire,
2d. per copy. United Kingdom via France or
America, 2d. per copy. To all other places, 4d.
THE RIDDLE OF BERCHTESGADEN.
For the second time in five-and-twenty years Britain
and France are at war with Germany, and Australia
and Maoriland, as loyal partners in the British Com-
monwealth, are in it.
After the dismemberment of Czechoslovakia in
March, Britain gave Poland an assurance of “all the
support in its power in the event of any action
which clearly threatened Polish independence, and
which the Polish Government considered it vital to
resist.” France joined in this undertaking, employing
similar terms. The Dominion Governments had been
informed of what was intended, but were not asked
to become parties to it.
The treacherous Russo-German agreement having
placed the Poles in deadly danger, the March pledge
was embodied in an Anglo-Polish treaty. Each ally
bound itself to give the other at once “all the support
and assistance in its power”—
Should one become engaged in hostilities with a
European Power consequent upon {a) aggression by the
latter, (b) any action which clearly threatened, directly
or indirectly, the ally’s independence, (c) any action
which threatened the independence or neutrality of
another European State in such a way as to constitute
a clear menace to the ally’s security, and (d) any
attempt to undermine its independence by a process of
economic penetration or in any other way. No armis-
tice or treaty of peace except by mutual agreement.
France entered into a corresponding alliance with
Poland. Again the Dominion Governments were con-
sulted without being asked to sign.
Meanwhile neutral peacemakers were busy, and
parleys were proceeding among the parties. The
British Ambassador at Berlin flew to London with
notes for the Prime Minister and back with notes for
the Ftihrer.
In his last reply Hitler laid down his terms for
Poland. The first was the unconditional and imme-
diate return of Danzig—nominally a Free City under
the protection of the League of Nations, which
nominated the High Commissioner, but actually under
Nazi control. With other points (16 altogether) at
least two London newspapers were rather favorably
impressed: a plebiscite for the Corridor, with an
International Commission to “guarantee objective
voting” and meanwhile exercise sovereign rights;
railways and motor roads across it for Germany’s
exclusive use ; similar connections for the Poles if the
plebiscite went against them ; Gdynia to remain Polish
and, along with Danzig, to become an unfortified
trading centre; demobilisation of both armies on
mutual acceptance of the terms.
But it was all knavery. The programme was not
communicated officially to Poland, and, as given to
the world after the event, it was subject to one vital
condition. Like Hacha, the Czechoslovak, a Polish
“negotiator” was to signify acceptance at Berlin. A
two days’ limit, expiring at midnight on August 30,
was fixed. The Poles were not apprised of it; prob-
ably if they had been they would have regarded the
whole business as a tricky demand for surrender, plus
humiliation. No “negotiator” having arrived at Berlin,
they were held there to have rejected the terms..
Then came action, swift and ruthless. Forster,
the Nazi leader in Danzig, issued a proclamation “can-
celling” the Constitution of Danzig, and offering the
city to the Ftihrer. Hitler replied accepting the gift,
and a measure incorporating it in the Reich was
rushed through the Reichstag. To that “deliberative”
assembly in which there is only one party he said he
had “decided to give Poland no light lesson”; 454
German sentries had been shot on German territory,
and since 5.45 that morning (September 1) “we have
been shooting back.”
Every bomb will be answered with bombs. Who-
ever fights with poison gas will be fought with poison
gas. This fight, no matter against whom, will be
fought till we have secured our rights. We are all
determined that we shall never capitulate. This will
and our might shall prevail.
He had already put forth a proclamation to the
army, alleging that Poland had “appealed to arms”
and was persecuting Germans “with bloody terror,
and that “in order to end this lunacy I have no other
choice than to meet force with force.” Before night
fell German soldiers were attacking Poland from the
north, west and south, and German airmen were drop-
ping bombs on Polish cities and towns. Declaration
of war there was none.
The Nazi-Communist ramp had been ratified by
both gangs on the previous day. To the last moment
Russian-alliance editors and professors clung to the
hope that Moscow would not ratify, and even when
the news was in type in Sydney newspaper offices the
chairman of the Communist party was interpreting the
short delay in getting the job done in the Soviet “Par-
liament” as “the plainest of warnings to Hitler not
to begin war,” and as “an intimation that, in the event
of hostilities, the Soviet Union is free to take what
action it thinks fit.”
No sympathy need be wasted on the millions of
foreign Reds and Parlor Pinks whom Stalin sold.
Abject to Moscow, cocksure and arrogant in English-
speaking countries, and in Spain guilty of hideous
atrocities, they deserve everything that their betrayer
had in reserve for them; and they have only seen the
beginning yet. But for handing a Slav people over
to deadly enemies of another race with arms in their
hands —and this when his own denunciations of the
same enemy were echoing through Europe —Stalin
will be for ever execrated in the Slav world. In our
time it has been a tragically divided world ; and that
is one of the secrets of Nazi Germany’s immense
power for mischief. Serbs hate Croats, Slovaks hate
Czechs, Russians hate Poles, Poles hate Ukrainians ;
and this hatred is returned in full measure. But
there are still Pan-Slavs, and there always will be,
though the Pan-Slav movement was bloodily eclipsed
with the Tsars, who, with some warrant, called them-
selves Protectors of the Slavs; and among Pan-Slavs
Stalin’s name will go stinking down the ages.
It was from Slovakia that the Germans delivered
perhaps their most formidable attack. In two days
they were claiming the capture of Czestochowa, a
sacred city to Polish Catholics; of Teschen, seized by
the Poles when Czechoslovakia was carved up ; and of
Vilna, taken by them from Lithuania; claiming also
mastery in the air. The Poles are good fighters, but
they were outnumbered from the beginning, and had
all too much reason to be doubtful of their minorities.
Their position on Monday was plainly perilous in the
extreme.
On Friday they had invoked British and French
aid. That day Sir Nevile Henderson delivered a
British Note to the effect that “unless the German
Government are prepared to give his Majesty’s Gov-
ernment an assurance that they have suspended all
aggressive action against Poland, and are prepared
promptly to withdraw their forces from Polish terri-
tory, his Majesty’s Government in the United King-
dom will, without hesitation, fulfil their obligations to
Poland.” The words “in the United Kingdom” are
significant; each Dominion Government was left to
define its own attitude. A corresponding message was
delivered by the French Ambassador at Berlin. Sim-
ultaneously armies, navies and air forces were mobil-
ised and a beginning was made with a large-scale re-
moval of non-combatants, chiefly women and children,
from London and other exposed cities and ports.
Presently power was taken to conscript Britons in
the 18-41 age-groups.
No time limit was fixed in either ultimatum. At
9 o’clock on Sunday morning, however, “the British
Ambassador,” as Mr. Chamberlain announced in a
broadcast from 10 Downing-street, “handed to the
German Government a final Note that, unless we heard
from them by eleven o’clock that they were prepared
at once to withdraw their troops from Poland, a state
of war would exist between us. No such undertaking
has been received, and in consequence this country is
at war with Germany.”
This declaration was repeated in the House of
Commons that day. In the lobbies there must have
been whispered inquiries as to what " the French were
doing. There was a note of anxiety on this head in
the speech of Mr. Greenwood, the Labor leader.
However, evening brought the news that the French
time limit had expired at 5 p.m., and in the Chamber
of Deputies M. Daladier said “The French troops will
march with the British as soon as the word is given.”
He added “We will persist in our efforts for peace,
but we will not permit a hegemony over Europe.”
On Monday came the intimation that the French had
manned the Maginot Line.
The French Prime Minister closed his Sunday
speech with “a particularly warm tribute to Italy.”
The Duce was continuing his efforts for peace, in the
course of which he proposed a Five-Power Conference.
A new Government, composed for the most part oi
moderates, had been formed at Tokio after the
stunning intelligence from Moscow and Berlin. After
an “extraordinary meeting” it was given out that Japan,
under the new Government’s guidance, would hold a
watching brief; but two influential newspapers, the
“Asahi Shimbun” and “Nichi Nichi Shimbun,” ex-
plicitly declared that if a world war came Japan would
remain “strictly neutral.”
The Bulletin could repaper its walls with insult-
ing letters it received in the course of its campaign
against “sanctions” in 1935-36, active support for
Chiang Kai-shek and his Communist auxiliaries
against Japan, and intervention in Spain on the Stalin-
ist side. Intervention would have alienated Portugal
as well as bitterly antagonising Spain. Along with
the other forms of crusading mania, allowed full
play, it would have led, if the worst came, to complete
isolation of Australia and Maoriland at the very least.
Spain and Portugal, horrified at the Nazi-Communist
truce, have declared themselves neutral. So have
nearly all the other little nations: Switzerland, Hol-
land, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland,
Estonia and Lithuania.
Of our “allies” other than France and Poland
only Turkey can be treated with any respect. The
Turks have promised to be faithful to their eiigag -
ments to Britain and France ; it is improbable tna
those engagements will bring them into actual con-
flict with Germany. Rumania, trembling at the pros-
pect of being invaded and cut up by Bulgaria waq
Hungary, is selling much of its wheat and handing
over most of its shipping to Germany. Greece is
another non-starter; the Greeks will concentrate _on
keeping out of danger and raising the price of nsn
and chips. On these scared nations Mr. Churchill
confidently relied when he was improvising his Grand
Alliance. His last and silliest conception did an im-
mense amount of harm; nevertheless the elderly
author has been taken into the Cabinet as First Lord
of the Admiralty. And Mr. Anthony Eden becomes
Dominions Secretary without a seat in the Cabinet.
Yet no man did more to drive Italy out of the British
orbit. And until he was sure that Mussolini would
not send his legions across the Brenner, Hitler did
nothing and could do nothing.
It has been asserted in America, and repeated in
Australia, that President Roosevelt averted war. in
September, 1938, and again last March, by addressing
appeals to the parties concerned. This assertion was
ridiculed by the “Saturday Evening Post,” which in its
issue of July 8 warned Americans against cherishing
the “delusion, already too widespread” among them,
“that our spokesmen have influenced the course of
events in Europe or Asia by mere words, unsupported
by force or the threat of force.” The events of the
past fortnight have justified this warning. They have
shown also how baseless was the companion belief,
with which Australian minds have likewise been
stuffed, that the United States Government was anxious
to restrain the Japanese from going into Manchuria in
1931 and that a feckless British Government let it
down.
During a fortnight big with the fate of nations
nothing has been more astonishing than the impotence
of the United States. Mr. Roosevelt sent message
after message to Hitler, plaintively mentioning in the
first that a previous communication had not been
answered. Save for a belated acknowledgment written
in the third person to a subordinate, his Note issue was
ignored.
It was feared at the beginning of the week that
he might issue a proclamation forbidding the sale or
delivery of goods urgently needed by Britain, France
and some of the Dominions —aeroplanes, above all —
on the ground that they are belligerents and that the
Neutrality Act leaves him no alternative.
Mr. Roosevelt is heart and soul with the Democ-
racies, and he tried to get the Neutrality Act amended
so that his Government might side with them in time
of peril, within United States law. The amendments
he asked for were refused by a combination of mem-
bers of both parties. Some of these politicians have
made themselves notorious for killing Hitler with their
mouths, and denouncing John Bull as a white-livered
hound has been a favorite recreation of other
politicians. A horde of American novelists, magazine
writers and “special” correspondents have spread
themselves on the same congenial theme: the British
Lion and (by implication) his cubs are cowards because
they refused to back with their blood and treasure the
Abyssinians, Red Spaniards, Austrians, Czechs and
Chinese whom their distant detractors backed with
words for which they were well paid.
Now and then the ferocious contempt of these
writing men for British policy has betrayed some of
them into making vague promises that their own
nation will, in some unspecified way and at some un-
dated period, put things right. Mr. Vincent Shean,
for example. In his last book Mr. Shean sneer-
ingly allowed that Britain might have to fight; then
“interest and emotion alike will propel us into
action, and in all probability we shall save
them again, as we did in 1918, even though we know
very well they have deserved their fate to the fullest.”
“Last time” nearly four years elapsed before “we”
had a few divisions in the line ; and when it was
all over “we” set up synthetic republics and then with-
drew for 20 years, leaving craven Bull to defend them.
Mr. Shean will have to order things better “next time.”
The actual re-establishment of thrice-partitioned
Poland was the work of Britain, France and Italy. But
a United States President put the idea into the heads
of their representatives, and led them to believe that
hiS country would back, re-establishment to the limit.
This was Woodrow Wilson’s thirteenth Point, presented
to Congress on January 8, 1917, and in the following
year accepted by allies and enemies alike:
An independent Polish State should be erected t
which should include the territories inhabited by
indisputably Polish populations, which should
be assured a free and secure access to the sea,
and whose political and economic independence
and territorial integrity should be guaranteed
by international covenant.
Now that support for Poland has involved Britain in
war, Australia, Maoriland and Canada will not shirk
their share of the responsibility, whatever the English-
speaking republic that has twice the white population
of the British Commonwealth may choose to do.
The Riddle of Berchtesgaden is a Riddle no
longer. He stands revealed for what he is: not merely
a fanatic and a mystic, but the most unscrupulous and
most pitiless of politicians. Long ago it became evident
that he was bent on regaining for his Germany every
rood of ground that was under Prussian or Austrian
rule before the war. March made it plain that he was
not above lying and cheating to attain his ends. Now
the world realises with a shudder that to gratify his
territorial ambitions and his greed of glory, he is
capable of signing a truce with a man he has for years
denounced to his people as their most devilish enemy ;
of—himself brought up as a Catholic—ordering Ger-
man Catholics, of whom there are 28,000,000, to bomb
Catholic Poland ; of waging war in its most frightful
forms on a scale that may blast another generation
and bring the white race down.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Red Morning Comes to Europe.
A Sydneian hears Armageddon’s trumpets:
We heard the voice of London at half-past four on that
• t Svdnev afternoon. It had been announced in Berlin
‘L t at 540 am. Hitler had issued a proclamation to his
™ies- ‘‘The Poles are no longer willing to respect the
frontier....ln order to put an end to this lunacy
F no alternative but to meet force with force. The
I rtof Gdynia was already blockaded. There had been
lighting all along the Polish border. The German Air Force
in action.
In a few minutes, Berlin repeated hysterically in German
the proclamation of Forster: ‘‘Men and women of Danzig,
h* hour for which you have been waiting for 20 years has
Struck To-day Danzig returned to the Reich.... Our Fuhrer
has liberated us.” .
The air became a pandemonium. None of its constant
futures was there save Radio Moscow. Radio Moscow’s
feature is talk. Its human voice went on throughout the
a steady flow of words all in one key, repeating,
annarentlv, the “Hansard” details of the meeting of Moscow s
“Parliament.” The night before it had read, in the same
monotone, the full list of the thousand heroes and heroines
who had been decorated for supreme bravery on the Mongolian
front.
Every moment there was fresh news. American reporters
giving eyewitness descriptions in London, in Paris, in Berlin—
Berlin “scarcely realising what had fallen on it. Pans, halt-
empty but seeming full. All the normal life going on. There
are women bending over their knitting in the sunshine, an
old gentleman buying necktie fixings from a huckster, people
sitting in the cafds, gossiping, sipping, reading their news-
papers. And London —London was the same old London,
with workmen unconcernedly going on with the building of
a West-End apartment house, a garbage-man swearing lustily
because people would leave their blinking rubbish-bins m the
wfong places. ,
The noise reached its crescendo with the Reichstag speech.
A curt word or so introduced personalities as they reached the
tribune: Goring; Frick. Then Hitler himself. A shuffle of
opening sentences growing louder in a sudden rush of words.
Deep, guttural bass phrases hammered out like the thud ot
blows, a rise through the octave to a choked, passionate
falsetto. Pauses, as of a man weary to the bone; a final
sentence pattering off towards the corner. A round of
cheering and “Siegs” and “Heils.” .
Sometimes the man was obviously speaking extempore, and
his utterance stumbled. When he said “Early this morning my
soldiers were fired upon, and since 5.45 we have been shoot-
ing back” the cheering lasted for more than a minute. The
speech proper ended with a loud “Deutschland, sieg Heil!
A mumbled exposition of the improvised “law” achieving the
return of Danzig came as an anti-climax.
Afterwards, German stations broadcast what was called
a “recording” of the speech. It had been groomed and
changed both in words and delivery. It was the translation
of this revised effort which was rebroadcast in English.
Throughout the evening, German stations played martial
music—what a lot of martial music there must be in Ger-
many! 8.8. C. broadcast music, too (“So-and-so’s Dance
Band”; “ ‘Game as Ned Kelly,’ an Australian feature,”
its second appearance), interspersed with news of bombed
cities and of the thunder of artillery in Poland. On towards
II o’clock Sydney time an old military air came over:
The grand old Duke of York, he had ten thousand men;
He marched them up to the top of the hill and he
marched them down again.
“Without children and flowers London would grow old and
cold,” somebody wrote once. London is losing millions of its
children. At dingy old Waterloo a train is drawn up waiting
for a party of them, their lunches packed. They had kissed
their mothers good-bye on their way from school to the
railway station; the mothers had not been told where they
were going lest they should follow and “cause congestion.” _
Some of the tots are not five years old. Others are in
the 7-to-12 range. “They come from some of the poorest
parts of London. They are all excited. They think it is a
grand holiday. Many of them have never seen the country
before.”
A teacher from South London —“near the Elephant and
Cawstle”—thanks “those who have done so much for .us.”
A small boy is brought to the microphone and examined.
His large school letter is on his breast, his name tag on his
shoulder, his lunch in his little satchel, “his gas mask in his
little brown box.”
There is talk of “going hopping.” An excited murmur
as they climb into the carriages. A little girl says clearly
to a little boy: “Go on, take your coat off.” The station-
master comes out and watches from another platform m
the long black coat and the tall black hat in which he sees
the King and Queen off.” ,
Then “Now, children, what about a song? What about
giving us ‘The Lambeth Walk’?” A giggle. Childish trebles
raised with growing confidence: “Doo-een the Lambeth Walk
—Oi.”
It must be poignant to exiled Englishmen. They know
that this pathetic, cheerful contingent from the “Elephant
and Cawstle” district are next-door neighbors of dear, dirty
south-side Lambeth, with its slums and its age-old arch-
bishop’s palace which looks like a factory that has seen
better days. The singing recedes, to the asthmatic wheeze
of the departing Brilish railway engine.
We tune back to Berlin. The endless martial music
is still going on: “Morning red, morning red. Shall I
soon be lying dead? Soon the trumpet calls to strife. Then
must I lay down my life, I and many a comrade.” But as
an epitome of horrors to come, that was a pale thing beside
the exodus of those British children fleeing from German
bombers.
More "Leadership 11 for Australia.
Sydney “D.T.” discovered last week that “under the
shock of the Russo-German non-aggression pact”
Japan “has to review and revise her whole policy,” and
finds the reaction “amazing.” It is not half as amazing
as the change that has come over the “D.T.”
Until a scrap of paper was signed by Molotov
and Ribbentrop the “D.T.” was devoured with admira-
tion for Moscow. In August, 1937, it showered super-
latives on “the greatest fighting machine history has
ever known—the Russian Red Army.” The Mighty
Soviet War Machine had, it seemed, “at least 6000
modern tanks” and “more than 6000 aeroplanes,” and
shining over all was that risen star of democracy
Stalin.
Those who try to attack our country will receive
a stunning rebuff to teach them not to poke their pig’s
snout into the Soviet garden.
So thundered Stalin. “To what pig’s snout was
Stalin referring?” asked the “D.T.,” raising its own
snout from the ground. “Perhaps in Berlin and Tokio
Aryan and honorable ears burn.”
n Came October, 1937, and with it “The Roosevelt
Offer.” What did Mr. Roosevelt offer? “Positive
action against Japan,” the “D.T.” explained enthusi-
astically ; and “positive action” was designed (1) “to
paralyse Japan’s army and navy by cutting off their
vttal oil supplies,” and (2) “to paralyse Japan’s econ-
omy by closing the world market to her goods.” The
oil boycott was assigned to the Americans and the
Dutch, but in the other part of the paralysing operation
the Commonwealth was to bear its part —“We in
Australia must make it clear that we stand behind
America.” Happily there was no occasion for Aus-
tralia to “stand behind America,” for “positive action”
was lost in the Great American Desert.
The world has since seen Congress maintain the
cash-and-carry policy and let Japan profit by it. It has
seen Mr. Roosevelt address appeals to Hitler which
were not even answered, and it has read the Dutch
Queen’s declaration of “strict neutrality... .no parties
to hostilities would drag us into war.”
In the meantime the “D.T.” returned to its darling
plan. In July of this year it wrote:
Britain, the U.S.A., France and Holland buy more
than 80 per cent, of Japan’s total exports With
this market closed, and the supply of British, American
and Dutch oil cut off, Japan would soon be brought
to her senses.
A week later it was insisting on “the signing of the
Anglo-Russian pact” and the extension thereof to
“Eastern Asia,” pronouncing that “urgent.”
August brought the admission that “there have
been hints for the last two months” that “Japan
might welcome mediation in the war in China.” So
the “D.T.” must have averted its face from the “hints”
when it counselled a boycott of Japan and an anti-
Japanese agreement with Russia to cover the Far
East. But with August also came the pose of robust
friendship.
Japan did much for the Empire and for Australia
during the war. She has long been one of Australia’s
best customers. Her total imports from Australia
rose to a maximum of £17,661,232 in 1935-36, when
she was our second-best customer for wool. They fell
to £5,900,038 in 1937-38 [i.e., the “positive-action”
year].
Now the “D.T.” calls upon Mr. Menzies to frame
“a definite policy for the Pacific” that “will ensure
good relations” with Japan ; “the opportunity must not
be lost.” “The Russo-German” (not the Anglo-Rus-
sian) pact is “likely to relieve the Empire, and particu-
larly Australia, of a possible war in two hemispheres.”
This newspaper claims to have given Australia “leader-
ship.” Such “leadership,” blindly followed, would
have brought a war in two hemispheres on Australia.
Wheat Deadlock That Won't Last.
A further conference between the Commonwealth
and State Governments failed to achieve unity on the
question of wheat subsidies. The Canberra scheme
provided for stabilisation at 3s. 4d. per bushel at ports,
the Commonwealth Government to contribute
£2,000 000, plus the proceeds of the flour tax, and the
State Governments £1,500,000. A deadlock was soon
reached, and Mr. Dunstan and the Tasmanian Minister
of Agriculture, Mr. d’Alton, walked out. The other
gentlemen decided that no good purpose could be
served by bringing forward another scheme.
Five delegates from the Wheatgrowers’ Federation
had asked the conference for an equalisation plan on
a contributing and repayment basis, home-consumption
price to be stabilised and price of export wheat
fixed at 3s. lOd. f.o.r. ports. Their conference after-
wards passed a resolution to the effect that the federa-
tion “take the necessary action to displace any
Federal member not prepared to support its stabilisa-
tion plan”—a rotten way of tackling a most difficult
question.
Mass meetings in Victoria and N.S.W. have shown
that farmers are by no means unanimously behind the
federation. These meetings have approved the Rober-
ton scheme, devised by a Junee farmer. It provides
for stabilisation of part of the crop, averaged at
71,393,000 bushels, with a limit of 3000 bushels for
every grower. For that 3000 bushels he would get 4s. a
bushel at ports. This, according to Roberton’s calcu-
lations, would leave just on 20,000,000 bushels to be
sold at world parity. With world parity at 4s. 8.2 Id.
—the average over 31 years —the cost to the Govern-
ment, Roberton maintains, would be nothing ; with
wheat at 3s. it would be £3,569,000. His plan, he
contends, would check overproduction ; the average
grower would get a payable price and the large-
scale grower would know (the occasional grower also)
that the more he increased production on an unfavor-
able market the lower his price would go.
The N.S.W. Government has adopted a com-
promise scheme offering 3s. 6d. at country sidings up
to 3000 bushels. Premier Mair is against a flat rate
on total production. He proposes to find £558,000 to
supplement £698,000 which he expects to receive from
the Commonwealth. The Bulletin’s notion is that
the Commonwealth should guarantee 3s. a bushel and
the State Governments make themselves responsible
for carriage to ports at a flat rate of 4d. a bushel.
Since Tasmania grows little wheat Tasmania s contri-
bution would be negligible. Indeed, considering the
huge grants it is getting from the Commonwealth, the
attitude of its Government is amazing.
However, the war has changed the outlook and
recalcitrants will have to become reasonable. Obvi-
ously wheatgrowers must be looked after like all
other producers of vital commodities.
Gentlemen, the Press !
Ernest Scott, in his Australia During the War, the
eleventh volume of the Official History, mentions a
1914 incident that led to the tightening of the cen-
sorship, and was no doubt remembered by Mr. Hughes
when he issued his War Precautions Act regulations:
Permission was given to the Melbourne Argus by
a responsible military officer to print a photograph
of the embarkation of troops from Melbourne..• • •
The Naval Board was seriously perturbed. Publica-
tion of any account of the embarkation of troops,
whether by means of picture or in type, meant....
playing with the lives of the 30 000 men who were
afloat at that moment...-The fleet conveying these
troops covered eight to ten square miles of ocean,
the ships were crowded with men; they were not
armored vessels but merchantmen, which a few enemy
shells would crumple up as if they were paper.
The consequence was the issuing of an order that
no newspaper should be allowed to leave Australia for
a fortnight; the prevention for three weeks of the
publication of any other picture illustrating the embarka-
tion of troops, and the stoppage for a week of all
mails for Java, the East Indies, Singapore and the
Philippines. The indiscretion also resulted in the estab-
lishment of a separate naval censorship, which took
within its purview all matters relating to shipping.
To-day, 25 years afterwards, the responsible
authorities have palpably learned something from that
experience. Not so a section of the press.
When the situation in Europe became desperate,
one Sydney daily came out with a series of paragraphs
to the effect that certain aircraft had been commis-
sioned as troop-carriers. In one case the machine was
named; and time of departure, number of passengers
and destination were given. Another paper pub-
lished a large photograph of the “Australian Navy’s
Flagship in Peaceful Setting,” showing it lying at
anchor in a particular place on a specified day. All
this notwithstanding a War Book regulation forbid-
ding the publication of “any information relating to
the work, description, disposition, movement or con-
dition” of any of the King’s “vessels or aircraft.”
In his grave speech in the House of Commons
on August 29, Mr. Chamberlain, as reported in Syd-
ney dailies on August 30, “urged the press to exercise
the utmost restraint.” He said a lot more than that,
as anyone who listened to the wireless accounts can
testify. He said “a few thoughtless words in a paper
of no particular importance might wreck the whole
of the efforts being made by the Government to obtain
a satisfactory solution.” A published account of a
British Government communication to Hitler was an
invention from beginning to end.
Equally baseless and even more dangerous was
certain other matter that appeared in print at a most
difficult time. Seemingly, sensational newspapers have
no use for the old decencies of journalism even when
their country is in danger, and radio stations that
“dramatise” foreign “news” on bad American models
are worse offenders still.
Home, Ivan !
It was announced on Monday that a Russian military
mission had arrived in Berlin. This was denied in one
quarter, but all accounts agree that M. Merkalov, the
Soviet Ambassador, has been recalled.
Poor M. Merkalov. On his return trip to
Moscow he must have spent a gloomy time brood-
ing over what happened to previous representatives
of the U.S.S.R. An incomplete list:
England. —M. Rakovsky and Colonel Putna recalled
to Moscow and shot. Captain Tchikounsky, Lieut.
Sivkov and Captain Tchorny recalled to Moscow; dis-
appeared. MM. Osersky and Bron, trade mission officials,
arrested; disappeared. M. Sokolnikov, former Ambas-
sador, sentenced to 10 years’ penal servitude.
Poland.— MM. Davtian, Alexandrov, Postnikov,
Barabanov, Vinogradov, disappeared from the Embassy;
whereabouts unknown.
Germany. —Soviet Embassy casualties include MM.
Krestinsky (shot), Youreniev (recalled to Moscow and
disappeared), Nepomniachtchy (recalled to Moscow and
sent to Siberia).
Spain.— M. Rosenberg, Ambassador, recalled to
Moscow and arrested. M. Antonovsesnko, recalled to
Moscow and shot. M- Kogan, summoned to return
to Moscow, but preferred to commit suicide at once.
Estonia. —M. Oustinov, died mysteriously. M.
Petrovsky, disappeared. M. Stark, recalled to Moscow
and shot. ~ ,
Latvia. —M. Brodovsky, recalled to Moscow and
shot. M. Pokhvalinsky, recalled and disappeared.
Lithuania. —M. Podolsky, recalled and shot.
Finland. —M. Ivanov, arrested and disappeared.
M. Asmus, recalled to Moscow and shot. M. Briskine,
recalled and disappeared. ....
Italy.—M. Levine, recalled and died mysteriously.
Belgium— M. Rubinine, recalled and disappeared.
Hungary. — M. Beksadian, recalled and shot.
Greece. —M. Kobetzky, recalled and died mysteri-
OUS Turkey—M. Karsky, recalled and disappeared. M.
Karakhan, recalled and shot.
China. —M. Bogomolov, recalled and disappeared.
Japan. —M. Rink, recalled and shot.
Czechoslovakia. —M. Aronsef and his wife, recalled
and both shot. . , ,
France— General Semimonov, shot, and a dozen
other diplomats recalled and arrested. Also, General
Miller (White Russian), kidnapped; believed murdered.
The more that gets known about Red Russia the
better the adjective fits it.
Tall Tales from the Orient.
“E.V.”: Baron Munchausen seems to have been spend-
ing his holidays in the Orient, and his tales are largely
naval. A Sydney pictorial weekly published the first
of his yarns, complete with pictures.
Japan, it seems, has invented an 18ft. submarine,
7ft. 6in.. in beam, which carries three men, has a
range of 600 miles and—driven by a 100-h.p. Diesel
engine! —can travel 36 nautical miles per hour on
the surface. It can also dive to 1800 ft. and then rise
—pressure at 1800 ft. is about 7201 b. to the square
inch. If it is all true, the Japanese have discovered
and applied a new set of laws of physics and dyna-
mics and space. The fastest surface speed known
hitherto to submarines is about 22 knots ; their effec-
tive diving limit is about 200 ft., though a descent of
334 ft. was claimed recently for an Italian sub. of the
1938 vintage.
A daily took up the fearsome tale with an
article by a casual visitor to Japan, and illustrated
it with a picture of a “new Japanese submarine
credited with a cruising range of 12,000 miles” —about
as likely as a car capable of the same range without
refuelling. It also treated its readers to a view of
a “new Japanese 27,500-ton battle-cruiser under-
going speed trials.” On inspection, the inno-
vation is not a battle-cruiser but a battleship—proved
to be the Kongo, 29,300 tons. She was designed by
an Oriental named Sir George Thurston and com-
pleted in the Japanese shipbuilding town of Barrow
on November 21, 1912. The only new things about her
were her reorganised anti-aircraft and torpedo defences
and some alterations in superstructure made between
1935 and 1937.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“H.H.”: The scurry of vessels in
Australian waters to dodge capture if
they were anywhere about when war
arrived reminds me. In August, 1914,
the very considerable shipping of Ger-
many in Australian ports was caught
napping. The rush of one vessel to get out
of Port Phillip produced the first British
shot in the war fired by an Australian
gunner. In Sydney a German ship which
made a break for it got outside after
butting into Garden Island in its hurry;
but it was soon brought back. Most of
the other vessels quietly surrendered;
the most picturesque surrender was in
connection with one which had been
loading at Walsh Bay. War had broken
out, but everybody was.behaving as if it
didn’t make much difference, when a
tally clerk got annoyed at seeing the
German flag flying still at the stefn.
He jumped on board and hauled it down.
“Spokeshave”: Of the posters exhibited
in Melbourne during the last Crisis,
the most arresting was displayed #ot
in front of a newspaper office but at
a hairdresser’s in Bourke-street. It
read: “WAR IMPENDING! Join the
Razor Gang. Get your razor blades
sharpened here.” I wonder what con-
struction the Nazis would put upon
it if some local photographer photo-
graphed it and sent the picture to Berlin.
* * # *
“C.R.”: Maoriland has followed the
lead of France, which lately put the self-
portraijt of Cdzanne, the painter, on a
postage stamp, by using R. L. Stevenson’s
head for a new sevenpenny issue. The
picture looks remarkably like Henry
Lawson, and that fact might suggest
something to Australia’s Postmaster-
General. There are some excellent por-
traits of the Australian poet in existence.
* * * *
“C. Ma.”: At the Brownlee concerts
at Melbourne Town Hall the microphone
shaped like a map of Australia and the
dress-suited young announcer in the
gallery were conspicuous by their
absence. But this isn’t to say that A.B.C.
didn’t make the singer an offer. It did ;
and this is what he had to say about
it: “The terms offered were not worth
considering. I ask only for a fair deal,
but what the commission proposed to me
was anything but a fair deal. The fee
that I was paid for my first broadcast
in America was five times as much as
the commission offered me for a broad-
cast of one, or part of one, of my
concerts.” You see, Brownlee is not
Austrian but Australian.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: A Toorak (Melbourne)
hostess was giving a dinner to a sea-
farer with some reputation as an ex-
plorer. When the meal came to the
dessert he was served with a helping
of apple pie, and after he had taken a
couple of mouthfuls his face beneath its
beard went purple, a strange look came
into the eyes which had so often looked
death in the face without flinching, and
he began spitting on the floor. Consider-
ing that this was an idiosyncrasy of the
great, the hostess ignored his queer be-
havior, but another guest sitting opposite
leaned across and whispered: “You
needn’t be alarmed. They’re only cloves.”
“If they are cloves, madam,” snorted
the explorer, “they were grown in a nail
factory,” and he took an object from his
mouth and threw it on her plate, where
it landed with a metallic rattle. The
cook had mistaken the tack box for the
clove box.
* * * #
“Craiser”: A Sunday night concert
for a charitable purpose in a Victorian
provincial city noted for its zeal
for music had a sensational finale.
Admission was by silver coin, the concert
was a good one, the performers of first-
class quality and the attendance over-
flowing. The audience, well pleased and
feeling it had done it's duty to both its
charitable impulses and the Muses, was
just getting up to go home when the
chairman came out on the platform and
announced that the collection had been
counted, also the heads of those present,
and the response had been so meagre,
not to say disgracful, that another col-
lection would be taken up as the crowd
filed through the portals.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Photographs of British
attempts to use camouflage to render gas-
works invisible to aeroplanes don’t impress
this distant observer. Obviously some
modernist painter has been commissioned,
and he has painted trees standing up-
right. They don’t look like trees, but
like a bad painting of trees, and they
were evidently designed to be looked at
from a horizontal position. Viewed from
aircraft they would arouse intense sus-
picion. When the pilot swooped down
to get a closer look his suspicions would
be confirmed, especially if he had been
in the habit of attending modern art
exhibitions. Camouflage of that sort
needs to be done by an artist who knows
what Nature looks like, and that is the
function of the realistic painter. Even
so, the difficulties are tremendous. The
representation of an object on a flat
surface looks like the object only when
viewed from its appropriate focus point.
When viewed from an aeroplane with
the focusing point changing every
second, the most realistic bit of camou-
flage would undergo such extraordinary
changes that it would be more likely to
arouse curiosity than divert it.
* * * *
“Chacot”: That yogi who astonished
a young medico by stopping his pulse (B.
23 /8 / ’39) wasn’t so wonderful. J. C.
Cannell, in The Secrets of Houdini, gives
the recipe for the pulse miracle. It’s
simple. Concealed in each armpit is
a small rubber ball. The fakir applies
pressure to whichever arm he desires to
influence. The harder the pressure the
slower the pulse, which can be stopped
entirely for several seconds. The move-
ment of the arms, held close to the sides,
is absolutely indiscernible to the on-
looker unless he knows what to look for.
* * H *
“Pig Islander”: Allow me to arise
and refute a base slander on the Scottish
bagpipes perpetrated in an answer to a
Service Department query. Of course
the bagpipes can play “God Save the
King.” Timaru (M.L.) Highland Pipe
Band plays the anthem whenever occa-
sion arises, and also melts all hearts with
its version of “Abide With Me.”
* * * *
“Runa”: A Bulletin sketch of a line
of cars following an ancient bus that
blocks the way recalls a nightmare jour-
ney I took in Maoriland. An uplift
society had asked for cars to take their
members for a picnic to a rural retreat,
and at least 30 drivers responded. The
"No, I'm not much good with a shotgun, Thompson."
cars set off in line, and kept in a proce*
sion to the civic drive that runs alon'
the mountainous shores of Mamin
Harbor. We were all sailing along the
drive when, turning a bend, we beheld
before us an ancient springcart with Dad
and Mum in the front and the dog sit
ting in the back. They were doing a
steady seven miles an hour, taking up all
the road. Suddenly a safety bay in case
of the meeting of two vehicles, appeared
Thirty cars tooted delightedly. Dad
without turning his head, drove past the
bay. The commotion that arose behind
him might have unnerved a less stolid
driver or horse, but the springcart wen-
ruthlessly on, and we crept behind it for
20 miles until the crossroad appeared
and amid a hostile demonstration Dad
turned aside. We reached our destina-
tion an hour behind schedule full of recri-
minations. Our picnic host laughed de-
lightedly. “Too right the old cove
wouldn’t stop,” he said. “He daren’t.
He had no business on that drive at all.
Don’t you know it’s reserved for motor-
ists?”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. has been lamenting for
some years that its south-eastern district,
with all the chief towns, such as Mount
Gambier, close to the Vic. border, looked
to Melbourne rather than to Adelaide for
business purposes. The breach is now
becoming serious. Mount Gambier
Town Council has voted to discontinue
the annual subsidy to the Tourist Pro-
motion Association. “We have been
made the stalking-horse of S.A. tourist
activities,” said an alderman. “With a
natural outlet through Portland, Victoria
gives the Mount practically all its sup-
port, and Adelaide contributes only a
few distinguished visitors.” «
# * * *
“London”: The absolutely nude has
arrived on the London stage at last in a
revue at the Hippodrome. It is served
up as a series of poses copied from
famous pictures. The Velasquez Venus,
for instance, has its back modestly
turned towards the spectator; but
modern London taste has to be catered
for, and the attendant suggests that it
“should be a Turner.”
* * * *
“W.D.8.”: Two young fellows began
operating a new one in the go-getting
line in Melbourne t’other day. Women
passing through a shopping arcade near
Collins-street were stopped and a couple
of cellophane-wrapped green packets were
thrust at them, together with the invi-
tation to accept them as a gift. The
packets contained bath salts and hair
shampoo. Printed conspicuously on the
containers were figures indicating that the
total value was 4s. 6d. In every case the
women asked “Are you giving them
away?” and the reply came pat, “Yes,
but we will accept a donation.” A bob
usually passed over, and as low as 9d.
was accepted. But an offer of 6d. caused
the vendors to forget the prospective
donee’s existence and take their “gifts”
elsewhere.
* * * *
An ex-editor regrets:
MacCallum Smith, of the Perth “Sunday
Times,” cut up for about quarter of a million.
He left £lOOO a year for a chair of veterinary
science, £3OOO for a refugee dogs’ home, and
£lOO a year for a boys’ bagpipe band in Cale-
donia stem and wild; also £2OO to his publisher
—a nephew of Vosper’s widow, from whom ne
bought the paper—£loo each to his head printer
and his chauffeur, £5O to his first wile s
brother, who lived with him for many years,
and £5 apiece to 50 or 60 acquaintances, mostly
politicians and city chaps, to buy something to
remember hin. by. The list of bequests is a
long as your arm.
There is one striking omission. Testatoi re-
membered none of hi? editors, though hal
dozen are living and three are very old a
infirm. One of the six took charge of tn?
“Sunday Times” when, because of a dome
difference, he was the whole staff, ana c
trolled it for 15 years (when he left it was
years old), doing the work of two men. Uu S
; that period, according to the proprietor,
! “S.T.” became “the biggest Sunday P a P ..
the Empire.” During the same period Smitn
made the bulk of his fortune and i°j; . u
Parliament. There, being incapable ot P .
ing (or writing) half a dozen sentences wit.
out being floored, he cut no figure t,ll he
embraced the preposterous cause ot Se
It brought him a glorious free trip t
the petition to Westminster,” and on retun
ing he presented his oppressed Sta ,
desperately hard up, with a terrific
expenses.
The editor in question started at £6 a
and worked up to £l2. , ° rl , leaV, " g H handed
deprived of his last weeks a . t j-pj
instead a bill for £4, it being alleged that
he had drawn to go on an editorial tour
inspection of an industry with rami pers
four States on which many. Austra P ffajr
were represented was his P” . him to
Monthly accounts for the £4 folio
his new job. His successor who ™ S J IOU
on the same scale, toiled for .?. m vp „ rs When
sub. and reporter for nearly 40 y _ : 0 f a
past 80 he received a verbal He
pension and had to sue for .PfiL na rted from
lost the case. All his old editor P t h e
the late philanthropist in a ? g^ r ’ frjenc j s hip, he
feeling that, while professing
must have disliked them alway ;, ir j rY { J i o wer”
But stay—he d/d remember cheap
Murphy, whose sparkling pen n for
for more than 40 years. He s grave,
a stone to be placed over “Dryblowers s*
OPTIMISTS AND PESSIMISTS.
The optimist, when with his problems he copes,
Is over-inclined to believe what he hopes.
The pessimist, into the future who peers,
Is only too apt to expect what he tears.
Yet I know of no reason why one should be
loath;
While siding with neither, to borrow from both.
It’s an attitude surely that can’t be aspersed
To hope for the best —and prepare for the
worst.
Though the rain’s on the river, for instance,
there’s still
Sound comfort in noting the sun’s on the hill,
But he’s taking sad risks who feels therefore
assured
That all of a sudden it mayn’t be obscured.
We count him the wiser his course who can
steer
Between heartening trust and discomforting fear,
Who hopes for the best but who won’t be
coerced
Thereby from the prospect of facing the worst.
The optimist’s optics are trained, I suppose,
To see all that’s available couleur de rose:
The pessimist’s peepers are dark with the bias
Of gloomy Cassandras and dour Jeremiahs.
But what’s to prevent us from striking a mean
These irreconcilable viewpoints between?
While hope for the best is tenaciously nursed,
It’s well to get ready for meeting the worst.
Come, chirper and croaker, I’m telling you each
Has something to learn that the other can teach.
Let’s wish for all blessings the gods can purvey,
And pray for them, too, if we’re given that way,
For no one can tell us for certain a thing
The incomprehensible morrow may bring.
Let’s hope for the best, then, but foremost
and first
Be sure we’re prepared to encounter the worst.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


If I Was to ave a sixth I WOULD miss the pram on Washin' -day
“Cauboy”: I see that the new Aus-
tralian-born General of the Salvarmy
says he is going to make religion “hot.”
He was sergeant-major of the Training
Garrison at the Citadel in Bourke-street,
Melbourne. There used to be a win-
dow in the place where the Army dis-
played musical instruments for sale. One
afternoon I saw a familiar figure with
a head of waving yellow hair stop in
its rushing course and peer sharply in at
the window. It went on a few steps, and
then it came back and peered in again.
Again it proceeded on its way, only to
run back and have another look. This
time it darted inside, and presently re-
appeared triumphantly carrying a big
drum. It was Percy Grainger, who was
billed a few days later to conduct his
gigantic uproar, “March of Democracy,”
at the old Auditorium.
“Craiser”: It is an entirely different
Salvation Army that General Carpenter
has to rule from what it was in William
Booth’s spiritual prime. I got some
measure of the change in a little Sunday-
morning spectacle in Exhibition-street,
Melbourne, recently. The familiar strains
of the Blood and Fire band were heard,
and presently the detachment appeared.
It was followed by a hearse, which was
pursued by an undertaker in the custom-
ary top-hat and mourning habiliments.
Then succeeded a long line of cars full of
Army bonnets and uniforms. They were
all latest-model streamlined vehicles. It
is a long time since the Army really
depended for its maintenance on the
threepences collected at wind-swept cor-
ners by humble zealots of the cause. As
a property-owner, it can hold its own
with some of the longest-established
churches in the land. Its changed finan-
cial condition dates from the war, when
the earnest, cheerful, dead-game men it
sent with the Diggers removed for ail
time the prejudice against it.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Surely it was not absurd (as
suggested in B. 16/8/’39) for Barrie to call
Leonard Merrick “a novelist’s novelist.”
It was merely a summing-up—and a just
one. In fact, never was a verdict more
just; for Merrick’s fine craftsmanship
was so highly appreciated by his fellow-
novelists that they actually paid him the
unique compliment of anew edition of
his books, with a more famous man writ-
ing an introduction of glowing praise to
each. And yet, neither before nor after
had he the popularity with the public
that makes a best-seller. A “difficult”
man, perhaps, because disappointed. I
was a fellow-passenger on the ship by
which he left Australia after his visit in
1926-27. My wife, on introduction, took
an early chance to tell him the simple
fact that we had been consistent admirers
of his, and had read every book as it
appeared; to which he just replied cyni-
cally that probably she had only been
looking for any of his novels in the ship’s
library, so as to be able to talk to him
about them. The incident seemed to
throw a strong light on his character.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Reported that Marjorie
Lawrence will return to Australia next
year to take the part of her sister-song-
bird Melba in a Cinesound film, “The
Life of Melba.” The Dean’s Marsh girl
will have a difficult enough job fulfilling
expectations in the vocal line, let alone
the histrionic, and it is to be hoped the
librettists will gave her a decent oppor-
tunity. Whether Melba worshippers like
it or not, the best picture of Melba that
has been painted appears in Beverley
Nichols’s Evensong, but most people,
and especially Melba’s friends, thought
that he grossly libelled the diva. He
at least drew the portrait of an individual
who could have been a great artist; most
biographers paint great artists as indi-
viduals too colorless to be anything but
suburban grocers.
* * * *
“E.E.”: Memories are evoked by a
reference (B. 30/8/’39) to a Gisborne
(M.L.) Bulletin Club. M.L. was partial
to these clubs. There was one in Master-
ton more than 30 years ago. The late
Bert Toy, of well-loved memory, then
editing the Wairarapa “Age” and des-
tined later to become a member of the
Bulletin staff and editor of the
“Woman’s Mirror,” was president, and
Bulletin contributors Jack Cole and
George Yarr were members. Dean Mc-
Kenna sometimes shed the light of ecclesi-
astical approval upon us. Two members
now lie on lonely Gallipoli.
* * * *
“R. Volt”: There may be some signi-
ficance in the fact that a sudden and
mysterious interference with the 45-
metre emergency wave-length from the
Mascot radio station reduced that station
to complete silence for hours. When
radio first began to bulk large many
people thought the submarine cables were
finished and done for, but Defence ex-
perts didn’t. They thought that it might
be possible for countries to jam one an-
other in the air so completely in time of
war that Governments would have to
return to the old, barnacle-encrusted
channels of communication, so financial
arrangements were made to prevent the
cables being driven out of business. They
have been improved out of sight since,
and are now not far behind the wireless
in efficiency; and if the air did become
voiceless through all the different nations
shutting each other up, though they would
be unable to carry the whole burden of
the increased traffic the countries that
own them would be better off than the
countries that don’t. And Britain is still
the largest owner of cable mileage. More-
over, if a nation has command of the seas
it is almost impossible to cut its cables.
The Emden only succeeded in interrupt-
ing communication with Australia for 24
hours, and lost her life in the process.
It takes a cable ship with all the requisite
splice lists and equipment anything up
to a week to grapple and lift a deep-
sea cable, and if anybody merely carried
a cable to the surface, let alone tried to
cut it, the shore staff would know all
about it immediately, because the change
would upset the conditions in the office.
Moreover, as most cables are worked
duplex— i.e., there are messages going
both ways simultaneously, and they have
to be sorted out by elaborate and in-
genious shore apparatus what the
eavesdropper would find in the middle
of the cable would be incomprehensible.
* He * *
“Dick Tafone”: American journalism
seems to retain its pep. When the editor
of the “Ossego Press,” in the State of
Minnesota, recently drank floor polish in
mistake for health tonic, a reptile con-
temporary represented the accident as
attempted suicide. The convalescent
pressman thus expressed his outraged
feelings: “J. T. G. Roe, editor of the
‘Amoka Beacon,’ should be lynched, par-
boiled, vitriolised, quartered, and his
remains hung on a fence to dry....he
accuses us of attempted suicide in his
2 by 4 measly, mangy sheet. This long,
lean, lanky, lop-eared, lantern-jawed, lop-
sided, lop-faced, hollow-eyed, pot-bellied,
carping, whimpering wampus, this cross
between a jellyfish and a cur, will answer
to us not in a libel suit, but personally
... .to accuse us of self-destruction could
only originate in the mind of an im-
becile.” But, after all, it isn’t a century
since the “Times” referred to the “Morn-
ing Chronicle” as “that obscene squirt of
filthy water.”
* * * *
“Oxmead”: In an article on “The In-
dependence of Poland” the “S. M.
Herald’s” “Special Correspondent” (who
might be expected to know better) per-
petuates a chronic inaccuracy. “The first
President of the new Poland,” he tells
us, “was Paderewski. Pad. never was
President; he was Prime Minister. If the
Presidency had been merely a figurehead
job, he might possibly have occupied it
with credit; as it was, his excursion into
politics proved a disastrous venture, and
his period of power was brief and troub-
lous, The fact that he wished it for-
gotten may best be gathered from the
reference books, which —presumably at
his own wish —are almost unanimous in
ignoring this episode in his career.
“Any complaints?”
“Yessir — measles, sir.”
WAISTS.
“Waists are lower, resting right on top of the
hipbones.’’ —Fashion note from Paris.
Skirts are shorter, and hats are quainter
Freaks of fancy than ever they were,
With hues and tints that only a painter
Could featly fashion and feature there.
And, like' the frocks and the frills they show
her,
The female form into changes slips,
And the hourglass waists of our girls get lower
Till they’re only bounded by shapely hips.
They’ve had ups and downs in the past so crazy
That (save, perhaps, when on beaches viewed)
Their whereabouts was a trifle hazy, *
A bit uncertain their latitude.
They rose and fell without rhyme or reason,
Tried and discarded various zones,
Till once again there arrives the season
When they rest atop of the femur bones.
Waists are lower! And, friends, between us,
Pity they can’t be made to stay
Where such a lot of the charm of Venus
(Milo’s or Miletus’s) lay.
Why should they ever go twist-and-twirling
After the dress-designer’s taste?
We grow slick at “pegging” exchange and
sterling-
Can nobody “peg” the female waist?
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


CRAVENA
..aie so
sr
O
o
10 for 9°
20 for 1/6
m -
;
ms
m
SORE
THROATS
SPECIALLYTO
MADE
PREVENT
POLITICAL POINTS
Germans had to wait several hours
after Britain was at war to hear some-
thing about it. They had been forbidden
to hear the news direct under an edict
which made it a criminal offence to listen
to British or French radio. At 10.30 p.m.
on Sunday, the Berlin announcer, who
sounded weary and dispirited, an entirely
different fellow from the wight who a
week before had been calling various
“dear listeners” in Maoriland and Aus-
tralia by name, said that the results of
the deliberations of the British Cabinet
were not yet known. But a few minutes
afterwards a long statement by Hitler to
his troops was issued which made the
position clear. It was violent enough to
be an extract from a Granny “Herald”
leader.
When aerial attacks on London be-
came a dread possibility 3,000,000
women and children were shifted from
Cockaigne into the country. A lesson
for our Big-City politicians, and for in-
dustry, too, though few of the politicians
seem capable of profiting by it.
Unification may come about because
the burdens laid on the people by the
seven Parliaments and their bloated
establishments have reached the insup-
portable stage ; redistribution of popula-
tion — by spreading it about neglected
ports and into country towns —because
of military necessity. In an all-in war
such as fools in their blindness and
knaves in their anti-Australianism would
have brought upon the Commonwealth,
Sydney, with its 1,500,000 people and its
few exits, would be a death-trap.
Public opinion, expressed in suitable
terms by young Turner, of Gordon, who
is a one-Parliament man, forced the
Sydney Government to delay its plans for
levying huge additional taxes before it
introduces its precious Budget. It was
hoping to get formal sanction for taking
a lot more from wages and salaries this
week; but its hopes crashed on the rock
of war. There were two tax-bills, and
both have been dropped. Five non-Labor
members voted with Labor on a second-
reading division.
If Government employees could be
hurled, full armed and fighting fit, against
the foe —with 609 politicians for leaders
and departmental typists and bank girls
for nurses—Australia would be uncon-
querable. When the Commonwealth
statistician last counted them he found
356,100, of whom 325,877 were on full
time. That was over two years ago ;
and there are many more now. And
local-government men and employees
of boards and commissions—egg, milk,
pig, cattle, honey, chicory, butter,
banana, pineapple, canned-fruit, dried-
fruit, wine, potato, onion and A.B.C. —
would be an ample reserve.
For a month, Westralian “Hansard’s”
list of Assembly members has begun and
ended in this fashion:
Abbott, A.V.R North Perth
* Irwin-Moore
*Mr. C. O. Barker was elected member
for Irwin-Moore but resigned on August 2.
Mr. Barker has been mentioned in The
Bulletin in connection with the financial
house known as Litchfield’s (A/sia).
Chiefly by spouting over the wireless, he
unseated Ferguson, one of the Country
party chieftains. He was the first radio
spruiker to win a Parliamentary race in
these parts, but he failed to weigh in.
There are, or were, 82 Communist
deputies in the French Chamber —82 out
of 618. There will not be that many
ever again ; it seems much more likely
that the Communist organisations will
collapse altogether. To a fighting race
like the French, arrived at the most peril-
ous situation since the end of July, 1914,
Stalin’s twist was desertion in face of
the enemy. No use telling them that the
worst case of cold feet on record was
in reality lofty courage and magnanimity.
This pitiful pretence may go down with
a parcel of mugs in Australia, but Red
wool can’t be pulled over the startled
eyes of a logical nation in deadly peril.
Communists had their usual field day
on Sydney Domain last Sunday under
the red flag and a banner consisting of
the Australian blue ensign with, instead
of the Union Jack in the corner, the Rus-
sian flag. There was no protest when
“Hitler will take the field and lead his troops in person.”— Cable.
“FOR ME UND GOTT UND SCHTALIN, VORWARTS!”
one of their speakers referred to “the
deviltry of Chamberlain, Menzies and
Lyons in handing over Czechoslovakia
and Austria to the aggressors.” And
nobody fainted when the same speaker
in the exuberance of the moment ad-
mitted that Australia had “the highest
living standards in the world.” The basic
excuse for a Communist party always
professedly has been that we were a lot
of oppressed and starving wageplugs who
must be given full stomachs and become
free, like the tovarishes of Moscow.
As a rule A.B.C.’s one-eyed and
deadly humorless commentators all
say the same thing, but one night
last week Roberts, blithering about
the Stalin-Hitler ramp, was contradicted
a few minutes later by “The Watchman.”
Roberts’s utterances were so agitated that
he seemed about to burst into tears. Per-
haps some enemy had just reminded the
oracle of a pronouncement he made in
July, 1937: “The safety of the British
Empire depends upon the pacts between
Russia and Czechoslovakia and Russia
and France.”
Sydney “Workers’ Weekly” changed its
name to the “Tribune” last week and
increased its size to such an extent as to
suggest that at a crucial moment a
maiden aunt had remembered it in her
will. The “Trib.’s” first article on Sept. 1
embodied an interview with Comrade
Sharkey, the C.P.’s chairman, in which
he said Soviet postponement of the sign-
ing of the German pact was “the plainest
of warnings to Hitler not to begin war.”
It is an intimation that, in the event of
hostilities, the Soviet Union is free to take
what action it thinks fit.
The transformed paper came out in
time to be sold while newsboys were
calling “Soviet Parliament ratifies pact”
—the vote of the 1137 “democratic”
Deputies was, as always, “unanimous.”
The Lang group protests that at the
“unity” conference election of new
A.L.P. officers its ticket was beaten
by only a handful of votes, less,
indeed, than the number of ballot-
papers that went astray, though the
chairman of the conference, a West-
ralian, certifies that these were located
and counted. But Heffronites afterwards
elected 30 members of the new executive,
the Lang faction only two. As this was
written, the leadership of the Parliamen-
tary party was about to be put to the
vote. If Lang is licked again all hell will
roar once more.
Inter-State forests-authority chiefs met
in Melbourne and discussed Judge Stret-
ton’s bushfire report. They praised it
highly for its style, and recommended
that the introduction should be printed
and distributed to Australian schools as
“an inspiration to all persons to join in
combating our common enemy.” Then
they recommended a Ministry of Fire
Prevention and Defence. In other words,
the experts want the problem put more
than ever into political hands. Politics
is the only reason why it has not been
solved.
It would almost seem that Victorian
and N. S. Wales State politicians and
boards had deliberately decided to differ
on every subject that has cropped up
of late. The wheat-subsidy question
found Dunstan and Mair in opposition
camps. Mair tried to shove thumping
income- and relief-tax increases through
a Parliament grown scared and reluc-
tant ; Dunstan has not increased his relief
tax. Moratorium legislation is to be con-
tinued in N.S.W. and ended in Victoria.
And while Sydney’s Milk Board, which
has never been known to revise prices
downward, has put up the price of pas-
teurised milk of a certain grade, Mel-
bourne’s Milk Board has made one of its
periodical cuts.
Sydney “Worker,” which in the course
of 21 years must have smeared at least
10 square miles of paper with laudation
of the Great Workers’ Republic, was
knocked all of a heap by Stalin’s sur-
render to Hitler. Staggering up, it
emitted a few broken words about Cham-
berlain (“He never sincerely desired a
pact with Russia the Munich disaster
of mingled blunder and betrayal per-
verse preference... .extraordinary dila-
toriness and evasiveness”); but, the old
A.W.U. honesty asserting itself, it
acknowledged that “many people in
many lands who had faith in the Soviet
have been shocked and are lost in be-
wilderment and doubt at what has hap-
pened.” Poor old Frank Cotton, whose
idea seems to have been that Stalin was
the noblest work of Creation since the
dawn of time, relieved his feelings by
rocking it into a gas company.
Malcolm Brown, the C.P. member for
Upper Hunter (N.S.W.), is dead, and the
U.A.P., urged on by the Spooner group,
threatens to run a man for his seat.
There is no good reason why it shouldn’t,
but if it does the U.A.P. and the C.P.
may part company, as they have done
in Victoria. Along with the affair of
the wheat bounty, such a breach might
even lead to a Labor-C.P. understanding
in Commonwealth politics. In Europe
old enemies have suddenly become
friends, and that sort of thing is .catching.


" There’s mothing vne cam do about t— y JoHH y
SO VS/E. BETTER go to bed
SEPTEMBER NIGHT.


The Commonwealth General
Assurance Corporation Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Australia House,
Wynyard Square, Sydney,
BRANCHES at Newcastle and Lismore.
VICTORIA: 352-56 Collins Street, Melbourne,
and at Geelong.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Epworth Buildings,
Adelaide.
A modern, progressive and purely Aus-
tralian Corporation, transacting all
classes of Life Assurance, including
Eight Option, Cash Bonus, Probate,
Non-Frofit, Annuities, Personal Accident
and Sickness, etc.
WHY BUY BONUSES?
“MAXIMUM ASSURANCE AT
MINIMUM COST”
Write ror full particulars to
A. L. HARRJS, General Manager,
Box 140 CC. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
HAMPTON COURT
KING’S CROSS, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
• According unique
diversity in accom-
modation with
Completely Fur-
nished Flats, Suites
or Bedrooms with
Private Baths.
• Five Minutes
City.
•Spacious
Lounges.
• Complete Din-
ing-room Service.
[ft
m
a
m
FBF
m
n
FEE
EEE
m
err
The only Flats with
liquor license in
Sydney.
The full facilities
of the Saloon Bar
and Bottle Dept,
are available to
tenants and the
public.
Rates: Single Room
with private bath
from 10/6 per
night. Suites from
£l/1/- per day.
Write for Brochure to THE SECRETARY,
9 BAYSWATER ROAD, DARUNGHURST, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The Bank of Adelaide
ESTABLISHED 1865.
Incorporated in South Australia with Limited Liability.
Capital Authorised
Capital Issued
. £1,250,000
. 1,250,000
Capital Paid Up
Reserve Fund .. • • • • • •
(Used partly in business and partly
in Government and approved
securities.)
Reserve Liability of Shareholders ..
£1,250,000
1,000,000
1,250,000
Head Office: AML ADS, SOUTH AUSTRALIA*
BRISBANE OFFICE 305 Queen Street
MELBOURNE OFFICE 267 Collins Street
PERTH OFFICE St. George’s Terrace
Also FREMANTLE, W.A.
SYDNEY OFFICE 279 George Street
109 Branches and Agencies in South Australia.
LONDON OFFICE: 11 Leadenhall Street, E.C.3.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
all classes of banking and
exchange business transacted.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Charles Wheeler, D.C.M., who has been
recommended for the post of head of the
National Gallery art school in Mel-
bourne in succession to Mclnnes, has
been functioning as drawing instructor
there since 1927. He was born in
Dunedin, M.L., and studied at the Mel-
bourne Gallery and in Spain, Paris,
London and Holland, and was a fre-
quent exhibitor at R.As. and salons. For
a portrait of Ambrose Pratt he won the
Archibald Prize in 1934. He is locally
noted for his coldly-classical nudes, but
though he is an academician of the
academicians his appointment will be a
sensible solution of a problem that has
been agitating art circles. Wheeler is
extraordinarily well-liked by all the
students, who petitioned to have him
made their master.
Dr. William Bryden, who has resigned
from the wardenship of the Melbourne
Uni. Students’ Union to headmaster
Knox Grammar School, Wahroonga,
Sydney, has had long experience of
young scholars and knows the difficulties
of the impecunious student. During his
undergraduate days at Canterbury Col-
lege, M.L., he paid his fees by popular
science demonstrations and shearing. His
appointment coincided with the formation
of the Union in Melbourne in 1936, and
it has grown to the most vigorous body
of its kind in Australia. Bryden graduated
from Cambridge and Edinburgh Unis.
Dr. Utz, now on the A.J.C. committee,
is as well known in Macquarie-street as
in the racing world. Scion of an old-
established and prosperous Sydney family
which has contributed a good deal of
talent to commerce and the professions,
he belies his normal air of enjoying life
for life’s sake by his record. He is a
well-known research worker. His contri-
butions to the literature of Addison’s
DR. LESLIE UTZ.
disease following his investigations in
partnership with the late Dr. Keatinge
are known throughout the world.
According to a hoary old precedent
Councillor C. W. Coles was elected for
a second term as Lud Mayor of Mel-
bourne. A third term customarily carries
a birthday honors title with it. Another
precedent was violated. For nearly a
hundred years councillors have had to
sit on their decision while a candle, lit
at the opening of the ballot, gutters to
extinction, to enable horsemen to ride
in from the furthest bounds of the muni-
cipality and protest against the election.
A show of hands settled the matter in a
second, the ancient ceremony having been
abolished along with the aldermen. Lud
Mayor Coles is managing-director of the
“nothing over 2s. 6d.” stores which carry
his family’s name in Bourke-street. He
served in Gallipoli and in France and
got his commission. He is 48.
Just-dead Dr. Edward Ryan was a
leader in optical matters in Melbourne
for 30 years. His shingle in Collins-
street guided thousands of patients to his
consulting rooms from all parts of Aus-
tralia. He was a foundation member of
the Australasian College of Surgeons and
did much brilliant research work in other
branches of medicine. He was 75 at the
finish.
From London: “John o’ London’s
Weekly” gives a friendly boost to F. J.
Thwaites, now in Eng-
land, with the U.S.A.
to follow: “It is hard
enough to sell 1500
copies of a young
writer’s novel in Great
Britain, and a sale of
127,000 copies in Aus-
tra 1 i a (population
seven millions) of a
book written at the
age of 18 sounds
almost too good to be
true. And since The
Broken Melody ap-
peared in 1930 he has
written 12 other
books, one of which
has sold over 50,000
copies.”
Died in Sydney last
week, at 77, Robert
Gordon, eighth baro-
net of Afton and
Earlston. He was
born in Sydney, his
father, the seventh
baronet, having taken
up residence in N. S.
Wales in 1850. Robert
joined the N. S. Wales
Trigonometry Survey
in 1884, and after 50
years’ service, towards
the close of which he
was a Lands Depart-
ment inspector, he re-
tired. The title passes
to the late baronet’s
son, John Charles
Gordon, who is an assistant engineer in
the N. S. Wales railway service and lives
at Cremorne, Sydney. It is a Scottish
title.
Just-dead William Thomas Crofts had
more adventures with a camera than
many men have had with guns. A press
photographer before the war, he joined
up with the R.A.N. and afterwards went
back to his camera. Some of his pictures
taken as “Argus” photographer had an
international currency, notably one of a
parachute descent at Coode Island, Vic.
A couple of years ago he fell off the roof
of a wharf while snapping the departure
of Lord Nuffield, and during his sub-
sequent convalescence in hospital he gave
blood to a patient in a neighboring bed.
Several operations since preluded the end.
He was held in flying circles as one of
the best aerial photographers in Australia.
“El V.”: on Queensland Speakers:
Queensland Parliament had only three
Speakers in 24 years, and ill-luck dogged
each of them. They were all six-footers or
more —Bill McCormack, who changed over to
the Ministry, became Premier, and finished
broken in health; Bill Bertram, of slighter
frame, to whom illness also was unkind, and
George Pollock, who was found dead in his
room a few months ago. E. J. Hanson, the
new man, had a decade and a half as organiser
of the Plumbers’ Union and seven years as
Chairman of Committees. Pre-war Speakers
were John Leahy, of the rich Irish brogue and
rich scholarship; J. T. Bell, who had been
president of the Union at Cambridge; and
Colonel “Ocky” Armstrong, a cousin of Lord
Huntingfield, recently Governor of Victoria.
To the life, Armstrong was the Indian colonel
with puggaree and all trimmings. A fascinated
English visitor once remarked: “If the editor
of Tunch’ saw that old gentleman he’d go after
him with a butterfly net.” But a good Speaker
and a fine man.
Australia’s Defence Minister, Geoffrey
Street, knows war and hates it. He was
20 when the previous carnage began, a
youngster who had passed from Sydney
Grammar School to the Uni. with a great
sporting record. He played everything,
represented the University at cricket,
athletics and hockey, but cricket was his
game. He has one of the finest col-
lections of cricket literature in Australia.
He enlisted at once and served five years
THE MINISTER OF DEFENCE.
(Modelled by Frith.)
—in Gallipoli, in Egypt, France and Bel-
gium. He graduated from the Ist Bat-
talion to a staff job with the 14th Brigade,
finally became brigade major of the 15th
Brigade, was mentioned in dispatches
and won the M.C. He came home and
continued his military activities, and com-
manded the Corangamite Light Horse in
intervals of raising Polwarth sheep —a
distinctively Australian breed of which he
is one of the best-known improvers—
and playing cricket for Melbourne C.C.
He married into the Victorian Currie
family. The outbreak of the second great
war sees him a lean, pleasant-mannered,
crisp-speaking brigadier who has aged a
good deal in the last two or three years
since his entry into Federal Parliament
and his assumption of the Defence bur-
dens. He is a tireless worker, a good
man to get on with. He not only knows
his job but he knows his fighting material.
And he is still only 45.
When the Great War of 1914-18 broke
out E. A. Roberts, pensions advocate for
the R.S.S.I.L.A. in N. S. Wales, had not
long turned 21, and was a sugar workei
residing at Kogarah (N.S.W.). He en-
E. A. ROBERTS.
listed with the 2nd Battalion, A.1.F., be-
came a lance-corporal and was present
at the landing at Gallipoli. On the second
day he and Sergeant Carpenter, of the
same battalion, performed valiant service
as stretcher-bearers in bringing in
wounded men lying in front of Fisher-
man’s Hut under heavy enemy fire. For
this heroism Roberts was awarded the
Military Medal—the first Australian to
gain the decoration in the Great War.
Badly wounded at Pozieres in 1917 he
was invalided home, and was attached
to the Repatriation Department and War
Service Homes Commission until 10
years ago, when he was appointed to
his present position. He is a shrewd and
hard’ battler for the rights of the pen-
sioned Digger.
“Qwert Yuiop”: Brisbane has acquired
a place in international history as the
birthplace of Nelle Tritton, who recently
married Alexander Kerensky, ex-Premier
of Russia and its mildly pink dictator
unti! the Bolshevik revolution of 1917.
Daughter of the F. Trittons, of Clayfield,
she went to school at Somerville House,
and after a spell of journalism in Sydney
travelled widely in Europe, becoming an
accomplished linguist, and making a
study of international politics. She
divorced her first husband, M. Nadejine,
also a Russian and a fine baritone singer,
in 1936, and afterwards became secretary
to M. Kerensky. They were married in
New York, will live in Paris, and expect
to visit Brisbane and Australia next year.
“Bohemian”: Dead in London Iris
Wilkinson, Maoriland author, poet
and magazine writer. She was hampered
all her life by a crippled limb. A pro-
lific writer under the pen-name “Robin
Hyde,” her books included Passport to
Hell, Nor the Years Condemn, Jour-
nalese, Wednesday’s Children, The God-
wits Fly, Check to Your King and, last,
Dragon Rampant. She was more suc-
cessful in poetry than in prose. Against
the advice of her friends, she left Maori-
land in January of last year with the
intention of travelling, via Shanghai,
Kobe, Vladivostok and the Siberian
railway, to Russia. For several months
she was “lost” in the interior of China.
Eventually she was located, having taken
refuge with a Chinese family. The
privations she endured in the war zone
resulted in a nervous breakdown, and
she spent a long time recuperating in a
hospital in Hong Kong. Just prior to
her death she had contracted to write
two novels for her English publishers.


PETROL RATIONING?
CHARCOAL GAS
IS THE ONLY
SUBSTITUTE
IN ANTICIPATION OF EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS, THE WHOLE OF
AUSTRALIA’S PETROL SUPPLIES SHORTLY WILL COME UNDER THE CONTROL
OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
WHILST IT IS THE DUTY OF EVERY CITIZEN TO CARRY ON ESSENTIAL
SERVICES AND PRODUCTION, IT IS NECESSARY THAT EVERY EFFORT , SHALL
BE MADE TO CONSERVE SUPPLIES OF PETROL.
Cutting from Brisbane “Sunday Sun,” July 2, 1939.
CHARCOAL GAS AS
WARTIME FUEL
FOR MOTOR TRANSPORT
Scientists To Draft Australian
Emergency Plan
MELBOURNE, Saturday.
THE use of producer gas units on trucks, tractors, and
cars, as a means of conserving Australia’s liquid
fuel supplies in wartime, will be discussed at a confer-
ence on Monday between the Minister for Supply and
Development (Mr. Casey), the Director of Army
Mechanisation (Colonel T. R. Williams) and leading
scientists.
pROFESSOR A. F. BURSTALL,
Professor of Engineering at
Melbourne University, who has
conducted wide research into the
potential local use of producer
gas in internal combustion engines,
will arrive at the conference door
in a car converted to the use of
charcoal fuel.
NOTE! When your Charcoal Gas Plant
. is installed: —
• THE ENGINE IS NOT ALTERED.
• CHARCOAL GAS DOES NOT HARM THE
ENGINE.
• THERE IS NO “KNOCK.”
9 THERE IS NO OIL DILUTION.
• YOU CAN START ON EITHER PETROL OR
CHARCOAL GAS.
• YOU CAN RUN THE ENGINE ON CHARCOAL
GAS OR PETROL AT WILL.
A Ford Truck Converted to Charcoal Gas by the
Commonwealth of Australia Defence Department.
With proper instructions, you or any handyman about the place can quite easily build a Charcoal Gas Producer to
suit your own requirements no matter what type or H.P. your engine may be, and you do not need to have any special
mechanical ability or any special tools or plant.
We can supply you with complete instructions written clearly in non-technical language, together with working
drawings that are specially drawn so as to be easily understood by anybody who has had no special training in reading
technical drawings or blueprints.
The plans and instructions show you how to go about the job in a practical manner, and how, if you so desire, you
can utilise all sorts of odds and ends such as old oildrums, etc., and this without in any way affecting the efficiency of
the producer, but, of course, helping to keep the cost down to a minimum.
The total cost to you for a complete set of instructions and drawings is only one pound (£1), and we would like you to
appreciate the fact that the services and advice of our technical consulting staff are available to you either before or
after you purchase the plans and instructions.
CHARCOAL GAS
5/4 VES ,
90 p.c. of FUEL COST l
F. MAHER, 17 O’Connell-st., SYDNEY
■ FILL IN AND POST TO-DAY!
F. MAHER, 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
lam enclosing £l. Please forward at once your Plans and Full
Particulars for Making a Charcoal Gas Plant.
Name
Address


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Jimmy Beggs came into
the river town pushing his old handcart
just in time to provide a butt for the
mob idling about the pub. But if James
was “pixie-lated” the pixies were on the,
job that day. They gave him doped beer,
it had no effect; they talked him into a
“fixed” bob-in, and the counter fumbled
the numbers and James collected 19s. ;
finally they told him the prettiest girl in
town was keen on him, and when Jimmy
went to the girl’s house she smiled on
him and drew him beyond the astounded
gaze of the jokers. They retired discom-
fited, then dug out the girl’s boy friend
and cooked up another trap for the old
waler. When Jimmy came from the girl’s
house he encountered an apparently fierce
young man who wanted to have a bit of
him. Jimmy shaped up, his attacker
stepped back in pretended fear, caught
his foot in the open cellar flap of the
local store and disappeared. When they
got him out they had to pay for a car
to rush him down to Mildura hospital
with a broken arm. Interest in old Jimmy
died right out and stayed out.
* * * *
“Devil Fish”: The 97ft.-long whale
killed off Twofold Bay (N.S.W.) was not,
as claimed (B. 23/8/’39), a world’s record
if we accept the statement of Captain
Small, of the Henrietta, of Aberdeen,
about a whale found dead in the Green-
land Sea in 1820. His crew declared that
the whale was 24ft. longer than the vessel,
which would make it 114 ft. Its breadth
was given as 37ft., and the top of its
back was level with the Henrietta’s rail.
* * * *
“Yarn”: Despite a century of asso-
ciation with whites on the mid-eastern
rivers, Binghi sticks to many of his
primitive camp appliances, and some of
these are ingenious. The fire tongs, for
instance, are made of split cane, bent
double, and bound over a small piece of
corkwood, inserted near the loop, which
keeps the spatulated ends apart and gives
the necessary spring—very convenient for
picking up a coal and turning toasting
bardees. A curiosity is the colander or
sieve, which is neatly and strongly made
in basket fashion with carefully-prepared
strips of lawyer-cane. These strips criss-
cross like the cane bottom of a chair,
leaving small or large holes according to
the stuff that has to be strained or sifted.
It is used for both dry and wet foods.
Fire shovels and pokers are always there.
The first is made of very hard wood, and
is sometimes used for digging. Broken
spears are generally used as pokers. He
also has a wooden pick, a very useful
implement.
* * * *
“Cam Cove”: I have sat around camp-
fires and have had inflicted on me tales
told by hoary old-timers of intelligent
dogs. I had no story to contribute because
I had not met the giant Alsatian then. It
was not until yesterday that I saw him,
a monster almost as large as a lion. Look-
ing as innocent as you like, he was squat-
ting on his haunches watching his owner
making a front garden path. “Ten bricks
short,” the man snapped as though he
was going to bite the Alsatian’s head off.
“Isn’t that my luck!” Rex ambled off
and came back with a brick, held at
right angles in his mouth. Nine more
trips he made, after which he flopped
down and raked his temporarily dis-
placed muzzle back over his jaws. Then
he sat up looking quite witless, staring
the whole world in the face. So far no
one has bothered to question him about
the bricks.
$ -jf * *
“Valencia Creek”: “Had to give that
new bloke the sack,” Cowbails said. “He
wasn’t a bad sort of a cove in some ways,
but too full of them new-fangled notions.
Hang me if he hadn’t the nerve to ask for
time off on Sundee so’s he could ’ave a
bath. A bath, mind yer —an’ the cow ’ad
been out in the rain cuttin’ ferns for two
flamin’ weeks!”
* * * *
“Tom Willie”: When cattle are bred
in mountainous country there is always
at least one charger in the dairy herd. If
it happens to be a white cow it is more
ill-natured than any other kind. Color
has a lot to do with temper, and the
paler the beast the more untrustworthy.
The savage-looking dark-red fount of
milk is docile and co-operative—bad-
mannered, of course, and will hardly
move out of your way—but its eye is
melting-soft and sad. The white cow has
a flashing eye of anger. It burns for
revolt, and spells murder. A good stock
horse will call its bluff and stand still.
The horse that wheels off when the
charge begins soon becomes a cot-case,
but on foot you can’t take the risk and
must carry a good waddy. In coastal and
flat country the cow is just a cow, and has
no bitter revolutionary ideas. She ac-
cepts man as her equal and does not
assume airs of superiority.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: Strange how so many
cling to the belief that Australia is in-
capable of producing a decent axe
handle. I have at present in the old axe
an Australian handle, price Is. 6d., that
has been there for over six years—far
longer than any hickory handle that I’ve
had in a lifetime that has seen a good
many handles. Don’t know what sort of
wood it is, but it’ll stand up to anything.
Apart from already-exploited timbers,
W.A. has a handle wood that some day
will come into its own. It’s a sort of
cedar. Not common, for it grows only
in karri country, and there only beside
running streams. Wood is light brown
to yellow in color, fairly light in weight
and very tough. And how many know
that yate, a W.A. eucalypt, is the strong-
est timber in the world?
# * * *
“Rus”: It is a curiosity that the Torres
Strait islander never learned to build the
craft which he sails so well. This is a
closely-guarded prerogative of the natives
of the Upper Fly reaches of the Papuan
mainland, and periodically the island
Binghi makes up-river trips to buy these
craft from their builders. Even in head-
hunting days this traffic in canoes was the
normal order, even though the gentry
who bought and sold the craft knew that
these very vessels would, in the course of
a few months, figure in cannibalistic raid
and counter-raid by vendor and buyer.
V * * V
“Kali”: Nothing surprising in those
hermit crabs being over a quarter-mile
from the sea (B. 23 /8 / ’39). Writer has
seen them miles from the ocean and at
an altitude of 3000 ft. Hatched in the
sea, the crab remains there for three
months; for the next six months it
spends its time as a microscopic speck
on the patch of beach that lies between
high- and low-water marks, getting used
to a life in the open, yet still being
covered by saltwater for a few hours
each day. Then it leaves the beach and
enters the bush ; to protect its soft hind-
quarters from attack it looks around for
a suitable shell. Once inside, a hard,
well-armored front is presented to
enemies. Unfortunately for its security
the hermit moults half a dozen times dur-
ing its lifetime, necessitating a bigger shell
at each moult. The changeover is the
danger pe'riod, birds, larger crabs and a
host of other enemies being always on
the lookout. The hermit is not particular
in his choice of a home as long as it is
a safe one. Saw one in Darwin dragging
a .303 shell case around as a protection,
and over at Port Charles came across a
monster of the species with a pickle
bottle over its nether parts.
* * * *
“Granova”: The newchum was watch-
ing the old timber-getter setting a cross-
cut saw. “How do you know when it is
set properly?” he asked. “When 1 think
it’s 0.k.,” the old chap replied, “I hold
the saw upside-down and place a darn-
ing needle on the tips of the teeth and
blow it hard. If the needle slides down
the full length of the saw, passing over
every second tooth, I know the job is
done properly.”
* * * *
“C.C.8.”: Give me the blokes who
live in huts every time for bush hos-
pitality. Take old Sandy McPherson,
for example. I lobbed at his place about
tucker-time. He hadn’t seen anybody for
months, and he was hungry for company.
While he was asking me questions and
answering ’em himself, he set to work
on the tucker problem. First he up-ended
his sheet-o’-bark bunk and put it on four
posts in the middle of the hut. Before
he started to mix the dough he wiped
a patch down with his beard, then went
outside and shook out the fluff. Into the
boiling billy he slapped some eggs, put in
a handful of tea and had the pint-pots
filled in no time. While the googs were
cooking he dived into a pile of ashes
and backed out of the fireplace with a
walloping big damper, which he banged
down on the table. His bushmates must
have mistaken the noise for the dinner-
gong, for two fowls hopped up and put
in overtime on the crust, and the crumbs
that were flung on to the floor were
gobbled up by soldier-birds. The goannas
got away with the butter, so we hadn’t
any, but it wasn’t a bad feed for a
hungry man, considering the treacle was
moving about with stuck ants and
beetles. After dinner Mac took his
dirty washing out of a kerosene-tin and
put on a bit of corn-kangaroo for
supper. He wanted me to stay, but I had
to push on ; the cheque for child-endow-
ment was about due.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Cripes, boss, I saw the
biggest death-adder I ever seen in my life
just a while ago,” the new hand told Dad.
“Did you kill it?” Dad asked him. “No,”
Choom replied, “It didn’t belong to us.
It was on the next-door man’s property.”
* * * *
“Gryllus”: I wouldn’t really like to
be a bird in any of my future reincarna-
tions, but should matters be decided
otherwise I hope that my avian one will
be among the nectar-feeding clans. Pref-
erably the lorikeets, those brilliant, noisy,
active lads and lasses who spend their
lives following up the flowering of vari-
ous eucalypts and other trees, getting
pleasantly shikkered every day, and
sleeping it off without any next-morning
hangovers. They'must be about the only
living creatures who spend their lives in
a more or less lit-up condition and don’t
suffer for it. There are not even any
domestic reactions, for the ladies are just
as fond of a spot as their boy friends.
Even the cares of a family do not cramp
their style. They take good care to
choose a locality well provided with
flower-booze, and also feed the kids on
it. The rest of the year is a continual
pub-crawl, and free at that.
* * * *
“Floreat Poona”: Re that newchum
who failed to recognise a horse that was
apparently white as one described as
“grey” (B. 16/8/’39). Who is supposed to
be the fool in this case? White and grey
(which may be dappled, fleabitten or
iron) are two distinct colors in horses ;
and though it is true that grey horses may
become white with age, seeing that this
could not have happened overnight all
that is revealed is the horseowner’s own
ignorance.
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: If that Westralian
peculiarity the blackboy isn’t disqualified
on account of its being sometimes called
a grass- tree, I’d like to enter one of him
in the race with “Benn’s” macrozamia
palm (B. 16/8/’39) for the old-age stakes.
For the benefit of those who’ve never
met him, his average growth ranges from
4ft. to 20ft. high and about 9in. to 16in.
through. Round, and black as a poli-
tician’s heart, it is composed of thin,
woody “petals,” coated with a resinous
substance, about half an inch wide and a
couple of inches long, radiating from a
pithy core. Each layer of petals, which
go about ten to the inch, is supposed to
represent one growing season. Thus the
plant would grow a foot every 120 years,
and my entrant, still standing at North
Dandalup, is a 47-footer, or roughly
about 5000 years old.
THE PLEASAUNCE.
Far from Sydney lies a region
Green and fruitful, fair and wide,
Where one might reside contented,
Caring not for time or tide,
When gold summer makes a pleasaunce
Of the sunny countryside.
Through that pleasaunce, on an old road,
Gilded cars speed to and fro,
And at times a teamster’s wagon,
Timber laden, lumbers slow
On harsh wheels that tell the stranger
How life moved long, long ago.
If so be your idle fancy,
Sitting by that road, your eyes
Will behold a brown-armed legion
From its storied dust arise—
Rise and troop, brave men and women,
With undaunted hearts and eyes.
By that pleasaunce to the westward
Runs a rough and rocky range,
Where wild nature, iron-fortressed,
Ever fights the hands of Change;
And where waters, hidden waters,
Murmur stories sweet and strange.
Yours will be a wondrous vision
As you climb the upland ways;
"But, Sheik, I DON’T Want to see the pyramids .”
For you’ll come all on a sudden,
And with eyes that spellbound gaze,
On a scene of sylvan stillness
With red waratahs ablaze.
Far from Sydney lies that pleasaunce
That I’m thinking of to-day,
Where a man may bide contented,
Casting care and toil away,
Or with beauty and with music
Through green wilds of nature stray.
N.S.W.
BRIGALOW.


“One for the road , Henry?"
“Quartpot”: Was on the road with
1000 cows and calves. Our second-in-
charge had to leave us, so the boss sent
word to an agent in the town we were
approaching to engage a good stock-
man to take his place. We were on
dinner camp when he arrived, equipped
with a bicycle, on the agent’s utility truck.
I nearly fell over when I recognised him
as a blithe soul I’d camped with under
a bridge ; he scratched a crust mainly
with a set of barber’s tools and by doing
a little hawking. Getting me alone later,
he said, “Don’t crack a lay, but wake
us up to the points, will yer?” Although
he hadn’t been on a horse since he was
Jen (“an’ I’m fifty”), he’d manage some-
how. I agreed to help him. After the
cattle were on camp and the watches
had been rearranged for his inclusion, he
asked me, “What’s this watching busi-
ness?” I told him to keep riding round
ihe mob and sing, or else make a noise
approximating to it. Later, dead to the
world, I was wakened by a prod in the
n u .There, with the red glow of the fire
on him, was Tim holding the reins of
n ,j§ht horse standing behind him.
4 Hey, ’ he said in a hoarse whisper,
a jy?, enc * °f the mob do I start riding
* * * *
Tasma Jun.”: It is true, as “Gryllus”
s ays(B. 16/8/’39), that the cat is not men-
boned in the Old Testament. The Book
° Baruch, in the Apocrypha, however,
e ers to the cats which sit down with
nf s ’, SWa^ows and birds upon the bodies
u tem Pl e gods. And there may
rpfJ 1 a sly allusion to the cat in O.T.
f [ enc ® s to man’s dominion over the
havik the air - The Hebrews must
the am ßiar with Egyptian use of
a won 1 sport and chase. There is
a *l-painting in the British Museum
showing a Theban noble hunting; his
fowling-cat holds three birds in its mouth
and claws.
“Flight”: And if the cat isn’t nomi-
nated in the Old Testament, will “Gryl-
lus” or some other be good enough to
tell me where l can find any reference
to a parrot in the Book?
* H* * *
“Mistri Sahib”: After years of patient
study, research and investigation, I have
to admit defeat and call for outside
assistance. Can any Aboliar inform me
as to the location, uses, etc., of these
“seacocks” used by all the best sea-story
writers to scuttle their ships? Not that
I take any notice of novelists, but in the
Cruise of the Emden 1 find the author,
who should know better, using the ex-
pression in connection with the sinking of
the raider’s victims. Until I’m shown
otherwise, it’s my firm belief (a) that, as
it standsj no valve, cock or tap is avail-
able to sink a ship within a week ; ( b )
that while an engineer could do the job
in safety, the skipper, who usually does
the dirty work, would stand an excel-
lent chance of being drowned unless he
knew far more about the ship than most
I’ve sailed with.
* * * *
“Gee Aye”: I was telling Taylor, from
next door, how I had been knocked back
when I went to get rations at the police-
station because I owned a truck which
I could neither get work with nor eat. He
merely spat and said, “Same thing hap-
pened to my old man when 1 was a kid.”
I wasn’t in the mood for one of Taylor’s
stories, but escape was impossible. “Of
course, it was a horse-and-buggy with
us,” he said, “but we still couldn’t col-
lect relief. The old man and I didn’t like
the job ; still, it had to be done. The
mare was an old faithful and tough to
chew. There were eight of us kids and
we made the best of it. The sooner it
was gone the sooner we could get rations.
The horse wasn’t so bad, but that buggy
and harness took some digestin’. One
morning as I was picking a bit of spoke
from between me teeth the old man
came out from his room (we only saw
him between cramps in the stomach
those days) and said: That the last
spoke, eh? Well, grab the iron tyre—
we’ll want that as evidence that it’s all
gone.’ ” Taylor hit the paling fence
again in the same place. “Did you get the
rations then?” I asked. “No,” Taylor
said. “It was just as I thought. The
cows come out an’ found we still had a
wheelbarrer.”
* * * *
“Nasmyth”: Those who find fascina-
tion in watching a farrier-smith bending
a horseshoe have hardly seen the begin-
nings of the craft. Let them get along-
side an engine-smith. The uninitiated
seldom realise that most steel working
parts of locomotives and engines gener-
ally connecting-rods, link-and reverse
gear, etc. —are forged over the anvil or
under the steam-hammer. That’s the real
wizardry of plastic ironworking. Knew
one hammer genius who could do any-
thing with wrought iron except shoe a
horse. Saw him once for a bet forge
a claw-hammer, a tricky job, as any
tradesman will agree. And with a dozen
other laborers 1 once helped him to forge
a 6in. crankshaft with a 12in. throw, a
breakdown job from one of W.A.’s big
mines. Some job that, for the huge mass
that ultimately was machined into the
crank had to be built on to the shaft
weld by weld, each one perfect; 7 x 3
billets he used, and the job was a suc-
cess. But when complimented on his
craftsmanship Jimmy would shake his
head deprecatingly. “No, boy. A real
smith can go out to the hillside and
gather ore, build his own blast furnace,
burn his own charcoal and smelt his own
iron. Then he can take it and work it
into tools. Make his own steel even.
Blacks in Africa can do it —have been
doing it for a thousand years. Don’t call
any modern white man a real smith.”
* * * *
“Yarra Ben”: If it comes to thinking,
the bushman is far more busily employed
than his city double. Stockmen riding
their paddocks, drovers, road men and
cockies do not have to concentrate on
the work in hand. It is automatic and
intuitive. They pass the time in rumina-
tive thought, thinking out countless
problems. Meeting in twos am* threes
they discuss their ideas —the most satis-
fying experience of their lives being when
they can get away from the subject of
sheep or cows. Creation is the pet theme,
and this naturally leads to history. In-
terest always awakens to the phenomenon
of life. Creation to them is not one com-
plete and simultaneous effect. The strong-
est hypothesis I ever heard was that
black brother descended from the kan-
garoo. There was no better ground for
the belief than that Binghi looked like
the marsupial.
* * * *
“Jayem”: Long Harry held the floor
in the pub parlor, where he was telling
all and sundry of his great strength and
of some of the feats that he had per-
formed. Red Victor was fed up, and
when Harry paused for breath said, “I’ll
bet you a quid that 1 can wheel some-
thing in a barrow from the pub door to
the corner that you can’t wheel back
again.” Harry looked him over —and
there wasn’t much of Victor to inspect.
“Make it two quid and it’s a bet,” said
Harry, grinning. They borrowed the
barrow from the yardman, and with the
rest of the audience as witnesses ad-
journed to the front door. Victor removed
his coat, spat on his hands, looked up at
Harry, and said, “Hop into the barrow,
long ’un.”
“ Why , MaWther, you d ’ look like one o' they glamor girls."
THE ONE THAT NEVER FAILS.
If keen to start an argument, it’s useless to
remark.
However challenging your tone, that dingoes
never bark,
And vain alike to reckon, in the hope of
raising backs,
The file can make a “monkey” of the grind-
stone on the axe;
To set dissent a-flaming, see contention come
unyoked,
Say sticks across the billy stop the tea from
getting smoked!
Have platypuses poisoned spurs? Can wedge-
tails lift a lamb?
Will ducks at certain times mistake a rooftop
for a dam?
It’s odds that any bushman that you fire such
questions at
Will answer with a languid “Yairs,” and let
it go at that.
But always by one statement can a barney be
provoked:
“Sticks across the billy stop the tea from get-
ting smoked.”
None will contradict you if you state, with
mien profound,
Floods are sure when ant-battalions shift to
higher ground;
Not a soul will sneer or snort or reach for
verbal bricks
If you aver that cattle fed on saltbush can’t
get ticks;
But murmur one thing only, and a sleeping
fire you’ve poked:
“Sticks across the billy stop the tea from
getting smoked!”
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


The Union Trustee Company of Australia, Ltd.
(Incorporated in Victoria.)
2 O’CONNELL STREET
ACTS AS
SYDNEY
Executor, Trustee, Administrator, Attorney, Etc.
(Established 1885.)
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, BRISBANE AND TOWNSVILLE.
Amongst the advantages derived:—
The Company never dies, never leaves the State, and is alwr.ys available.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY, EXPERT & ECONOMICAL SERVICE.
' N.S.W. DIRECTORS:
F. E. Bryant (Chairman); Hon. Sir Henry Braddon K.8.E., U.L.C. (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Granam Waddell, K.8.E.; James Kidd; J. Beresford Grant; Colin A. Sinclair.
Manager: J. G. H. Shipway.
(WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE EXPLANATORY EOOKLET.)
GLADSTONE’S PTY. LTD.
Financial Brokers and Underwriters .
Head Office:
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret Street, Sydney.
Queensland: Griffiths House, 309 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Claridge House, 52-56 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
Tasmania: Colonial Mutual Life Building, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
ADAMS’ (TATTERS ALL’S) HOTEL
259 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, 454 GEORGE STREET.
Bedrooms, 6/- and 9/- per night; Breakfast, Table d’Hote or a la Carte.
Single and Double Rooms, Rooms with Bathrooms or Suites available.
Intercommunicating Bedrooms for Families.
FIVE PUBLIC DINING ROOMS
Lunch from 12 noon (Sunday, 12.45 p.m.), Dinner from 5.30 p.m. (Sunday, 5.45 p.m.).
Tables or Seats may be reserved by ’Phone M 4601.
“KING t°„ f e ROAD”
BATTER IK
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Net To Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1929. . 232,088 11.5 p.c.= 137,500 94,588 1,285,813
1930.. 259,488 11.9 „ ~143,750 115,738 1,401,551
Transferred to capital, £300,000 .. 1,101,551
1931.. 199,392 10 p.c. = 150,000 49,392 1,150,943
Written off, £20,748 1,130,195
1932.. 156,761 10 p.c. = 150,000 6.761 1,136,956
1933.. 174,975 10 „ „ 150,000 24,975 1,161,931
From inner reserves, £147,585 .. 1,309,516
1934.. 228,295 12.5 p.c. =187,500 1
To staff pension fund, £20,000 [ 10,795 1,320,311
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO J
1935.. 232,809 10 p.c. = l 72,809 1,393,120
To tax reserve, £lO.OOO S’
1936.. 249,165 10 p.c. = 150,000 99,165 1,492,285
1937.. 288,456 10 „ „ 150,000 138,456 1,630.741
1938.. 321,884 10 „ ~ 150,000 171,884 1,802,625
To tax reserve, £lO,OOO . . . . 1,792,625
1939.. 260,837 10 p.c. = 150,000 110,837 1,903,462
From the investor’s point of view, the
experience of this co. and most other
marine underwriters during the Great
War was a very heartening one, from
which shareholders are still reaping bene-
fits. A phenomenal leap in shipping
values had sent premium income up with
a rush —indeed, there was more business
offering than cautious underwriters cared
to accept —while the British Navy kept
the seas almost entirely free for allied
shippifig by its success in dealing with
the submarine menace. Thus the loss rate
for marine underwriters was kept down,
enabling them to win large profits.
Instead of distributing profits as they
viere made the N.Z. kept a substantial por-
tion in the business. Capital thus became
entrenched behind a high wall of protec-
tive reserves invested in sound securities.
Returns from these securities have for
many years followed close on the heels
of advancing dividend charges, thus leav-
ing the bulk of the annual underwriting
surplus available to swell investments and
the returns therefrom. Should current
international developments results in a
long war in which the British Empire
became involved, there is no reason to
suppose that the British Navy would be
unable to maintain freedom of the seas
for British, allied and neutral shipping,
though apparently the Mediterranean
would be closed at the start, at any rate.
The sharp drop of £61,047 in this co.’s
net earnings for the 12 months to the
close of last accounts was mainly the
result of an unfavorable loss experi-
ence. Here are underwriting perform-
ances oyer a long period:
Loss Expense
Net Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.e. p.c.
1910. . £605,509 £391,321 £172,593 64.5 28.5
1925.- 1,072,761 603,650 342,334 56.2 31.9
1930.. 1,199,382 737,719 362,277 61.4 30.2
1931.. 1,145,257 740,245 353,439 64.6 30.8
1932. . 1,050,351 670,714 349,331 63.8 33.2
1933. . 1,008,530 622,039 333,387 61.7 33.1
1934. . 1,001,328 553,886 336,849 55.3 33.6
1935. 596,778 348,938 56.7 33.2
1936. . 1,096.569 631,809 346,414 57.6 31.6
1937. . 1,185,636 705,955 351,903 59.5 29.6
1938. 823,852 363,337 60.5 26.7
1939. . 1,405,787 910,489 377.632 64.8 26.8
Last term an extra £45,793 of net pre-
miums was gathered. Losses (up £86,637)
took nearly double the gain in net
premiums ; exes, (up £14,295) were only
about 2s. p.c. heavier. Thus the under-
writing surplus was £55,139 lighter at
7.8 p.c. on capital. Interest, rents, divs.,
etc., turned in £137,012 (up £2143), equal
to 9.1 p.c. on capital. Including an un-
explained addition to reserves of £6159
(£14,210 in the previous term), the net
return from all sources was £260,837, or
17.3 p.c. on capital as against 21.4, 19.2,
16.6, 15.5, 15.2, 11.6 and 10.4 p.c. back
to 1932. The div. was kept at 10 p.c.
Both policy-holders and shareholders
are well protected, as the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures shows:
1930. 1935. 1938. 1939.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,200,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 360,203 225,940 364,793 369,722
Public securi-
ties .. 1,981.827 2.035,631 2,209,163 2,161,573
Mortgages. . 61,625 46,250 9,747 9,747
Shares, etc. 122,324 239,889 535,467 650.274
Freeholds . . 425,268 446,793 549,319 553,661
Agency bal-
ances and
cash . . 465,710 465,497 478,721 492,929
Most of the money that became avail-
able last term went into shares, etc., up
£144,807, and Government securities were
reduced by £47,590. When the books
closed policy-holders could see net
tangibles—and assets can be taken as
well worth their book value—equal to
242 p.c. of the year’s net premiums,
whereas 150 p.c. is usually considered
adequate.
Owing partly to political and economic
developments in Maoriland, and partly
to the general trend of the market and
the drop in earnings, the price of the
pound shares has fluctuated between 565.
3d. and 465. 3d. over the last 12 months.
Following publication of the accounts,
the price dropped from 475. 9d. to 465.
3d., and has remained steady at the lower
figure. At 465. 3d. th<? return is 4.3 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis, with possibilities,
subject to what happens in Maoriland.
The net tangible cover is 455. 6d.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
Towards Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1929.. 59,783 10 p.a = 49,986 9,797 127,062
1930.. 43,653 7 „ „ 35,000 8,653 135,715
1931.. 37,730 6 „ „ 30,000 7,730 143,445
1932.. 39,162 6 „ „ 30,000 9,162 152,607
1933.. 41,017 6 ~ „ 30,000 11,017 163,624
1934.. 48,638 7 „ „ 35,000 13,638 177,262
1935.. 46,034 7 „ ~ 35,000 11,034 188,296
1936.. 57,884 8 „ „ 40,000 17,884 206,180
1937.. 65,089 8 „ „ 40,000 25,089 231,269
1938.. 50,047 7i „ ~ 41,240 8,807 240,076
1939.. 47,910 7 „ ~ 38,500 9,410 249,486
This co. is in the pastoral, pastoral-
finance and agency business in N. S.Wales
and Queensland. The contraction of
£2137 in last term’s net earnings is less
than might have been expected, con-
sidering the fall in the price of wool
and lighter clip, following a dry spell
in N. S. Wales, especially during the last
half of the term ; in Queensland pastoral
conditions were less unfavorable. The
quantities of wool and livestock put under
the hammer compare as follows:
Wocl
(bales). Sheep. Cattle.
1914 .. 101,579 307,813 18,764
1920 .. 137,258 321,140 15,357
1925 .. 117,550 232,501 32,676
1930 .. 182,221 485,958 37,243
1932 . . 214,126 481,507 21,901
1934 . . 206,277 442,078 20,447
1935 .. 233,840 426,674 25,457
1936 . . 210,640 365,724 28,736
1937 . . 238,473 458,439 32,725
1938 . . 213,801 423,573 44,919
1939 .. 207,354 395,256 29,272
The contraction last term was 6447 bales
of wool, 28,317 sheep and 15,647 cattle.
The average price per bale for the staple
was £l3 3s. lOd. (down £2 18s.) in Syd-
ney and £l4 Is. 7d. (down £1 13s. lid.)
in Brisbane ; the figures for cattle and
sheep strengthened a little as the year
advanced.
After providing for taxation, deprecia-
tion, etc., the net result was 8.7 p.c. on
capital as against 9.1, 13, 11.5, 9.2, 9.7,
8.2 and 7.8 p.c. back to 1932. Another
half-point was knocked off the div., re-
ducing it to 7 p.c., and making the aver-
age for the last decade a wink under 7
p.c.
Balance-sheet figures reflect continued
expansion of the business:
1928. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Capital . . £414,018 £500,000 £550,000 £550,000
Liabilities .. 553,490 510,121* 369,925 528,308
Freeholds .. 199,965 200,624 200 624 200 624
Plant ( j 10,108 1 5,951 16.4 7 7
Stocks j d > OdD ( 37,474 36,910 33,387
Advances, etc. 899,365 1,001,552 903,857 1,046,789
Investments and
cash . . 21,865 11,321 11,351 11,351
Consignments 1,916 310 10,557 38,415
* Including £6190 share moneys in advance.
To carry an extra £142,932 of advances
and £27,858 of consignments the board
went outside for a further £158,383. No
harm would be done if the £50,000 still
uncalled on the 1937 new share issue
was got in. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£601,634)
was £BBB4.
Sales of the new season’s clip, which
is better grown than its predecessor,
were to have commenced at Sydney on
August 28, but were postponed to a date
to be decided by the selling brokers be-
cause of the European crisis. Until this
is out of the way and overseas manu-
facturers can see a little more clearly
where they stand, demand is likely to
lack strength and prices to fluctuate. If
the Empire became involved- in war the
British Government would probably buy
the entire Australian clip, as it did dur-
ing the Great War.
There was little change in the market
for the co.’s scrip during the crisis. At
265. sd. the f.-p. pound shares return 5.3
p.c. on a 7 p.c. div. basis. On the same
basis the lOs.-paid contribs. yield 5.5
p.c., or 6.1 p.c. when fully paid. The
net tangible cover is 295. per pound of
paid capital.
Queensland Brewery, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Dividends and Written
June, Profit. Dividend Tax. Off.t Reserves.
1928.. 41,145 10 p.e. = 29,885 2,760 82,000
1929.. 44,058 12* „ ~37,356 1,702 87,000
1930.. 39,674 10 „ „ 29,885 3,789 93,000
1931.. 31,167 8 „ ~ 23,908 7.259 93,000
Contingency reserve included, £40,973.. 133,973
To Re-
serves.
1932.. 21.365 7 p.c. = 20,920 445 134,418
1933.. 20,924 7 „ „ 20,920 4 134,422
1934.. 22,406 7 „ ~'20,920 1,486 135,908
Pref. Ord.
Bi p.c. 7 p.c.
1935.. 30,265 8,613 20,920 732 136.640
1936.. 33,326 10,957 20,920 1,449 138,089
1937.. 48,417 10,957 36,973 487 138,576
1938.. 53,889 10,957 41,309 1,623 140.199
1939.. 69,792 10,957 55,856 2,979 143,178
t Added to contingency reserve.
Outstanding feature of recent years has
been rapid expansion of the business.
Together with Castlemaine-Perkins, the
co. supplies most of the beer con-
sumed in Queensland, especially in the
thirsty west and southern portions of the
State. Since there is no price-cutting in
the trade, competition takes the form of
buying up hotels and so widening and
at the same time anchoring turnover.
Since 1932 no less than £1,141,657 net
has been added to the book value of
fixed assets, chiefly on account of hotel
properties and enlargement of the
brewery, etc. To meet the outlay
£698,432 of fresh capital was gathered
and £393,591 net was added to the out-
side debt:—
1932. 1937. 1938. 1939.
Paid capital. . £298,851 £747.700 £996,933 £997,283
Liabilities .. 97,379 514,478 376,986 490,970
Fixed assets. . 286,433 1,181,013 1,303.007 1,428,090
Stocks .. 77,055 104,567 112.704 116,628
Book debts . . 167.862 127,261 113,166 106,931
Cash, etc. . . 8,265 12,586 12,832 13,190
Last term the renovation and rebuilding
of several hotels, and purchase of the
property at the corner of Ann and Boun-
dary streets, Brisbane, adjoining the
National Hotel, which is to be extended,
added £125,083 to the book value of
fixed assets. The board went outside
for the money, increasing the debt by
£113,984. When the books closed the
debt exceeded more or less liquids, in-
cluding stocks, by £254,221, an increase
of £115,937 over the twelvemonth.
To lighten the debt and provide for
still further expansion, 249,333 new
shares are to be issued at an early date,
one for every four shares, prefs. or ords.,
now held. It has not yet been stated to
which class the shares to be issued will
belong. Subject to the rights and privi-
leges of existing pref. shares, they may be
put out “with such rights and privileges
attached thereto as the directors shall
determine.”
The spring of £15,903 in last year’s net
earnings was partly due to the fact that
the previous year’s takings were affected
by a month’s stoppage at the brewery,
owing to industrial trouble, and partly
to the fact that the new capital gathered
during the 1937 term got more of a chance
to show what it could do. The £69,792
of profit claimed was sufficient to pay
the pref. div. and show 7.3 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 7.5, 7, 7.4, 7.2, 7.4,
7 and 7.1 p.c. back to 1932. The div.
was kept at 7 p.c., and the remarkable
evenness with which profits have been
written over the last eight years suggests
that there might be more wheat in the
ear than the eye can see. On total share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), the year’s profit was 6.1 p.c.; so
the existing pref. capital is earning more
than its keep, and is therefore very help-
ful to the ords. at the moment. It is not
expected that a proposed 3d. lift in excise
will seriously affect the breweries, which
might pass the charge on, but a new
award has put an extra 3s. a week into
the pay-envelopes of adult employees as
from June 19.
Since the beginning of 1939 the f.-p.
pound shares have fluctuated between
275. 7d. and 255. on the market. Owing
to withdrawal of buyers, the figure
dropped from 275. 7d. to 265. 3d. during
the week ended August 25, and has re-
mained at the lower figure since. Subject
to the terms of the new issue, the imme-
diate return at 265. 3d. is 5.3 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 235. yield
4.8 p.c. The net tangible cover was
£5 14s 6d. prefs. and 235. 7d. ords.


Take one minute now to sign
an application for life assur-
ance with the Equitable Pro-
bate and General Insurance
Co., Ltd. You will save your
wife and family many years
of hardship should you be
taken from them.
BE PROTECTED
EQUITABLE
PROBATE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE CO.LTD.
Head Office —371-373 Queen St.. Brisbane.
Wingello House. Angel Place. Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. V. PEIiKIJNS, Ueuerai Manager.
" QUALCAST M
made in Australia.
ż
Hundreds
have now
been sold
and are
giving: every
satisfaction.
MOTOR
MOWER
33
Guineas
in Seaport
Capital Cities.
Carrier for same, 35/- extra.
"Qualcast" Lawnmowers
MODEL “H”: lOin. 12in. 14in. 16in.
Broaze Bearing .. 33/- 41/- 44/-
Ball Bearing .... 44/- 47/- 50/- 537-
Super “7” Ball B. 56/- 60/- 647-
Country Freight Extra.
SOLD AND RECOMMENDED BY
ALL LEADING HARDWARE STORES
T 7 *,
York Minster.
BRITAIN
MAKE YOUR TOUR
COMPLETE.
The Highways o!
Romance and the His-
torical Cathedral Cities
are all awaiting you.
The route is by the
L.N.E.R.
Up to Scotland by the
“Coronation,” the first
streamlined train—Lon-
don to Edinburgh, 392
miles, in six hours.
TOUR BY THE LONDON AND NORTH
EASTERN RAILWAY.
Apply for full particulars to —
BURNS, rHILP AND CO., LTD.,
7 Bridge Street, Sydney, and Branches.
Agents throughout Australia.
BALANCE-SHEET
OF THE
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralla
AT 30th JUNE, 1939.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Capital Account 4,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 2,702,476 18 9
Rural Credits Department—
Capital Account .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 319,366 5 1
Development Fund ... .. 21,628 4 1
Deposits, Accrued Interest and
Rebate 81,832,780 17 6
Bills Payable and Other Lia-
bilities 7,486,069 10 10
98,422,321 16 3
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding Credits per
Contra 703,171 10 7
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. 99,125,493 6 10
Note Issue Department .. .. 56,633,592 11 6
£155,759,085 18 4
ASSETS.
£ 8. d.
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances 1,453,316 0 3
Australian Notes 3,048,989 10 0
Money at Short Call in London 16,737,883 10 7
Investments —
British, Colonial and Govern-
ment Securities .. .. 15,887,987 5 4
Commonwealth Government
Securities (including
Treasury Bills) .. .. 38,592,434 17 6
Bills Receivable in London and
Remittances in Transit .. 2,767,528 14 6
Bills Discounted, Loans and
Advances to Customers,
and Other Assets .. .. 19,023,364 12 9
Bank Premises 910.817 5 4
98,422,321 -16 3
Liabilities of Customers and
others on Letters of Credit
per Contra 703,171 10 7
Total General Bank and Rural
Credits Departments .. 99,125,493 610
Note Issue Department .. .. 56,633,54)2 11 6
£155,759,085 18 4
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS, for Half-Year Ended 30th June, 1939. Cr.
S. (1.
£
General Banking Department—
To Keserve Fund .. .. 92,815 17 11
„ National Debt Sinking
Fund 92,815 17 11
Rural Credits Department—
To Reserve Fund .. .. 8,700 5 1
„ Development Fund .. 8,700 5 1
Note Issue Department—
To Commonwealth Treasury 343,599 9 11
£546,631 15 11
By Profits for Half-year ended
30th June, 1939
„ Banking Business
„ Rural Credits Department
„ Note Issue Department ..
£
s. d.
185,631 15 10
17,400 10 2
343,599 9 11
£546,631 15 11
Dr.
RESERVE FUND
To Balance
£ s. d.
2,762,476 18 9
£2,762,476 18 9
£ s. d.
By Balance 2,669,661 0 10
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-
half of the Net Profits
of Banking Business .. 92,815 17 11
£2,762,476 18 9
We certify that the above Balance-sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. P. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
H. J. SHEEHAN,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 16th August, 1939.
Note Issue Department.
LIABILITIES.
£ s. d.
Notes In Circulation .. .. 47,525,214 10 0
Reserve for Notes not Presented 28,212 0 0
Special Reserve —Premium on
Gold Sold 7,752,900 19 0
Other Liabilities 1,327,265 2 6
£56,633,592 11 6
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Gold and English Sterling
Reserve 16,029,603 17 3
Debentures and Other Securi-
ties 40,503,927 8 9
Other Assets 100,061 5 6
£56,633,592 11 6
Certified Correct.
BERTRAND LATHAM,
Secretary, Note Issue Department.
G. E. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
H. J. SHEEHAN,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 16th August, 1939.
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Bustralia
BALANCE-SHEET AT 30th JUNE, 1939.
LIABILITIES.
& s. d.
Reserve Fund 2,713,473 6 7
Depositors’ Balances .. ..146,880,497 13 9
Contingency Account and Other
Liabilities 7,091,437 10 9
£156,685,408 11 1
ASSETS.
£ s. d.
Coin -, Cash Balances and
Money at Short Call 11,1.44,342 14 8
Australian Notes 236,956 0 0
Government Securities .. ..108,429,857 8 8
Securities of Municipalities
and Other Public Authori-
ties 32,719,925 9 3
Other Assets 3,281,961 2 6
Bank Premises 872,365 16 0
£156,685,408 11 1
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS, for Half-Year Ended 30th June, 1939. Cr.
£
To Savings Bank Reserve Fund 80,470
* National Debt Sinking Fund 80,470
s. d.
0 10
0 10
£160,940 1 8
s. d.
By Profit for half-year ended
30th June, 1939, after
provision for payments
amounting to £110,603
11s. 9d. due to State
Authorities under Sav-
ings Bank Amalgama-
tion Agreements ..
£
160,940 1 8
£160,940 1 8
RESERVE FUND
£2,713,473 6 7
£ s. d.
By Balance 2,633,003 5 9
„ Transfer from Profit and
Loss Account of one-
half of the Net Profits 80,470 0 10
£2,713,473 6 7
tVe certify that the above Balance-sheet, com-
piled from Statements furnished by the several
offices of the Bank, Is true and correct.
E. B. RICHARDSON, Secretary.
G. F. DICKINSON, Chief Accountant.
For and on behalf of the Board,
H. J. SHEEHAN,
Governor.
SYDNEY, 16th August. 1939.
Tin- nsu J ( Vrtiliciitcs <>f i lie Amlitor-Gine rnl for the i'oiiiiuomvcalth as to tlie correct ness
of Sli<* atiovt- accounts have licqii given,
Sargents, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1929.. 40,007 15 p.c. = 39,375 032 78,055
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£9908 68,147
1930.. 26,766 10 p.c. = 26,697 69 68,216
Unexplained reductions in reserves,
£10,238 67,978
Loss.
1931.. 5,087 Nil 52,891
Unexplained reductions, £1582 .. 51,309
1932.. 1,293 Nil 50,016
Unexplained reductions. £21,083 .. 28,933
Profit.
1933.. 3,505 Nil 3,505 32,438
Written off, £13,396 .. .. .. 19,042
1934.. 9,319 21 p.c. = 7,292 2,027 21,069
Taxation, £5OOO .. .. .. 16,069
1935.. 18,100 5 p.c. = 14,583 3,517 19,586
Share premiums, £1403 .. .. 20,989
1936.. 30,019 84 p.c. = 25,213 4,806 25,795
1937.. 33,538 9 „ „ 26,881 6,657 32,452
1938.. 36,871 94 „ ~ 28.375 8.496 40 M 8
1939.. 37,121 10 „ ~ 29,868 7,253 48,201
Shareholders had a steady 15 p.c. for five
years to the close of accounts in 1929.
In the following term the rate dropped
to 10 p.c., and then, with the big change
in conditions, came a three-year drought,
broken in 1934 with 2\ p.c. Since then
the distribution has gone up by annual
steps to 10 p.c. for the 12 months to
June 30 last. “I think shareholders
should be content to stay on that rate
for some time to come,” the chairman
says.
Indeed, considering the none-too-stout
prop for capital, the size of the outside
debt, the nature of the business, the
margin between earnings and distribu-
tions and the fierceness of competition
in the tea-room and restaurant trade,
discerning shareholders might consider
10 p.c. a more liberal distribution than
circumstances warrant at the moment.
The board hopes that recent expansion
of business will bring a substantial in-
crease in net earnings. Four new links
were welded into the chain during the
year, making the total number of
branches in and around Sydney 42, a
five-year lease was obtained of the Bondi
Beach Pavilion, caf6, etc., and Holly-
wood Picnic Ground, Canley Vale, was
taken over on a 10-year lease —rental
not stated in either case. The co.’s suc-
cess or otherwise with these leases will
depend largely upon the accuracy of the
management’s estimates, especially as to
seasonal conditions and the trend of
costs.
Last term turnover continued to ex-
pand, but increased manufacturing and
distributing costs gobbled practically all
the gain—flour tax alone (it began on
Dec. 4, 1938) made off with £5lBl. To
cushion the shock the co. lifted its
charges, or some of them, and after pro-
viding for taxation and striking off
£12,651 (down £799) for depreciation,
the net result was £250 better at 12.4,
p.c. on capital as against 12.3, 11.2, 10,
6.2 and 3 p.c. back to 1934.
The market sums up the risks by
pricing the f.-p. pound shares they
dropped from 275. 9d. on Aug. 16 to
255. 9d. nine days later —at 265. 6d. last
week-end. The return at 265. 6d. is
7.5 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c. distribution
continues. The net tangible cover (book
value) is 235. 2d.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1929. 1935. 1938. 1939'.
Capital .. £272,050 £291,666 £298,682 £298,682
Mortgages .. 289,750 130,228 128,044 127,669
Overdraft .. 30,665 21,220 8,035 12,929
Sundry cred.* 51,278 49,358 49,071 50,107
Freeholds .. 576,428 297,426 293,620 292,584
Leaseholds .. 12,536 6,861 13,446 13,099
Plant, etc. .. 95,325 94,500 91,944 97,334
Stocks,. .. 29,431 5,788 6,638 12,780
Cash, debtors,
etc. .. 25,788 41,072 41,188 42,355
Shares in other
cos. .. 1,988 77,348 94,372 94,372
* Including provision for taxation.
Plant and equipment are reported well
maintained and in a high state of effi-
ciency; much depends upon that. When
the books closed, outside liabilities ex-
ceeded more or less liquids, including
shareholdings and stocks, by £41,198, an
improvement of £1754 over the term.
The board has “stood over for the time
being” the idea of putting up “a modern
and extensive building” on the co.’s
Market-street freehold.
War and Trade
When a country goes to war a lot of
its people are taken out of normal pro-
ductive employment and transferred to
the fighting, administrative and supply
services. Some idea of what has hap-
pened in this connection can be gathered
from the following table, showing esti-
mated male population between the ages
of 20 and 44 years inclusive in the coun-
tries mentioned:
Males 20—44 Date of
Country. Inclusive. Estimate.
England and Wales .. 7,715,000 30/6/’37
Scotland 902,000 30/6/’37
Total, Britain .. .. 8,617,<>00 30/6/’37
France .. .. .. 7,560,000 8/3/’36
Poland 6,518,000 . 31/12/’3B
Germany .. .. . . 14,617,000 31/12/’37
The figures make no allowance for unfits,
etc. In their new spheres mobilised per-
sonnel consume much the same quantity
of food and clothing as they did in their
old peace-time occupations. So the rest
of the population is called upon to pro-
duce more food, clothing, etc., than it
used to. It is, therefore, everybody’s duty
to put his shoulder to the wheel, what-
ever his job may be. Further, there is
a big increase in the demand for strictly
war goods, such as arms, munitions and
equipment, and all the raw materials and
paraphernalia connected therewith.
If the campaign against Germany is
protracted, it is unlikely that Britain and
France will be able to supply all their
own war and other requirements; which
means that they will have to make up
whatever shortages there might be by
importing. Here the self-governing
Dominions of the British Commonwealth
of Nations, including Australia and
Maoriland, can greatly increase the strik-
ing and staying power of the Empire and
its allies by ensuring a constant supply
of necessary raw materials, such as wool,
wheat, metals, butter, hides, tallow, etc.
Also, Australia is now in the happy posi-
tion -of being able to provide Britain
with large quantities of steel, supply
of which is an important factor in
the conduct of a campaign with
modern mechanised forces. All this is,
of course, apart from any assistance from
a Dominion by way of a voluntarily en-
listed expeditionary force.
Britain was able to import directly all
she required during the Great War of
1914-18 from the Dominions, colonies,
U.S.A. and elsewhere, because the British
Navy commanded the seas. It still has
command of the seas —a vital factor for
the Empire in war —and isn’t likely to
lose it. Germany, whose navy was bottled
up in Kiel and therefore powerless to
maintain its country’s overseas trade
routes, had to import through neutrals
during the Great War. This proved both
difficult and expensive ; it bumped up
war costs in a way that couldn’t be met
by internal manipulation of the currency.
Although the recent pact and trade
agreement with Russia appear to have
strengthened Germany’s capacity to wage
war, neither the Austrian Anschluss nor
the seizure of Czechoslovakia was of much
advantage to Germany so far as the
foreign trade and food situations are
concerned. The holdings of gold and
foreign exchange seized from both these
countries have been rapidly exhausted.
Austria was even more dependent upon
foreign sources of foodstuffs than Ger-
many, the former Reich being able to
supply approximately 82 p.c. of its own
requirements as against Austria’s 74 p.c.
Payment for imports is quite a different
matter from internal payments by a Gov-
ernment for purchases from its own
nationals. If income from exports and
from foreign investments isn’t enough to
meet the bill, then gold can be exported,
foreign investments can be sold, or
foreign borrowing can be resorted to.
That is to say, no country can spend
more than it can produce and borrow.
In these respects Britain, the rest of the
Empire and France are all well equipped
for a prolonged struggle. Furthermore,
the British currency system is more
elastic than it was in 1914, and the whole
technique of currency and exchange man-
agement is now more developed and
better understood than it used to be.
On the outbreak of war a lot of money
has to be found in a hurry. Still, it is a
national emergency in which the Gov-
ernment’s credit is good for any amount
at the central bank. Last week the British
Parliament guaranteed the Government’s
war account up to £500,000,000, and
more money will be found if and when
it is wanted; in France the Deputies
sanctioned war credits up to £400,000,000.
So the Government goes ahead, spending
whatever is necessary in defence of
national interests, the central bank


Mining Notice.
THREE MINING LEASES at Bamford, North
Queensland, and 21 acres, including the famous
Haymaker. This mine is now producing
wolfram, bismuth and molybdenite. Fully
equipped, winder drills, blacksmith shop, ore-
dressing plant. Better than any gold proposi-
tion. Sacrifice £l5OO or offer.—FßED
WINTERS, Petford, North Queensland.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Troubles of a technical nature are investigated by
A. W. DYE & COMPANY, T. & G. Building, Elizabeth
Street, Sydney, Analysts, Assayers and Metallurgists,
—Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne, successors of L. B. Davies,
M.Sc., and Collison and Co. (Melb.). — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888).
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * # #
STAYBRITE STAINLESS STEEL is modernising
Australia! For full information about this rustless,
untarnishable steel, write to the firm who are best
able to advise you—AVilliam Adams & Company,
Limited, 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.- Advt.
SAM B. BAGLEY & SON
Stock and Share Brokers,
Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
Normanby Chambers,
430 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne, C.l.
’Phone: M 1787 <3 lines).
Cable and Telegraphic Address:
“Yelgab,” Melbourne.
ž
ENDUR A
CONKLIN ENDURA PENS
AND PENCILS
are
Colour Combinations of
unique artistic character in the
modern modes. Smooth, easy-
writing quality. Day by day
dependability. All future re-
quirements provided by the
famous Conklin Endura un-
conditional and perpetual
service guarantee.
A pen for any time . . .
... a pen for all time
Imperishable beauty, unending
utility. The Gift of exquisite
propriety, Conklin Endura
Pen and Pencil Sets are avail-
able in beautiful Presentation
Cases, affording ultra-modern
distinction and style to the Set
which is bestowed as a Gift.
Pens are priced at 30/-
and 40/-, with Pencils to
match 25/-. Complete
Sets in Presentation Case
55/- and 65/-.
Use Conklin Fountain Pen
Ink the best for every
Pen—4oz. bottles in all
colours, 1/- per bottle.
From all Stationers, Jewel-
lers and Departmental
Stores.
z
THE
lINITCniNSURANCE
Ulll I EU COMPANY LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1862.
Head Office:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS. SYDNEY.
CAPITAL - - £1,000,000
All classes of Fire, Marine and
Accident Insurances effected at
Lowest Current Rates.
The United is an Australian Institution.
A. C. DAWSON, T. 0. REYNOLDS,
Gen. Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
honors the cheques, and the money finds
its way into the commercial banks
through the accounts of traders and
others. The effect upon trade, profits,
prices, wages, etc., is another story;
much depends upon the way the Govern-
ment and monetary authorities handle
the position in respect of taxes and loans.
It needs to be remembered, however, that
banknotes alone do not increase a
nation’s real wealth any more than in-
ternal paper debts will end a war. The
point at which national exhaustion is
reached is not when the paper debt rises
to any given amount, as is often sup-
posed, but when essential war require-
ments outrun the resources of produc-
tion and borrowing.
From the investor’s point of view, the
situation as it affects Australia presents
fewer disquieting features than confront
many other countries. To protect our
overseas funds, exchange control was in-
stituted early last week, without hamper-
ing legitimate trade. The navy, air force
and permanent army have all been placed
on a war footing, there has been partial
mobilisation of the militia, while field,
coast and anti-aircraft defences have
been manned and vital points have been
guarded; all precautionary measures.
The important thing is that our sea
routes to Britain are uninterrupted. The
public accounts are well under control—
though taxation activities in N. S. Wales
need to be severely restrained—the bank-
ing situation is sound, which means
much, our overseas funds provide a com-
fortable margin over immediate require-
ments, a good season is in prospect, local
manufacture was never more robust, and
GLOBE TRUST AND
FINANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED.
At the Annual General Meeting held
at the Company’s Offices on August 30 in
Sydney the Chairman of Directors, Mr.
D. G. Hayman, gave an outline of the
Company’s activities and the greatly im-
proved results during the year as a result
of the utilisation of increased capital re-
ceived through the Company’s Brokers,
Messrs. Lamplough and Wharton.
Particular attention was drawn to the
fact that during the year the Company’s
Executive Staff had been strengthened by
the appointment of men who had previ-
ously held high positions in the financial
world.
As a result of this it was felt that the
Company had greatly strengthened its
position in its branches.
The unsettled conditions generally had
influenced your Board in adopting a very
conservative attitude to business offered
generally, and particular attention had
been paid to reducing the Company’s
external liabilities. The amount owing to
the Bank and Creditors generally during
the period having been considerably re-
duced to an amount which it is antici-
pated would not occasion the Company
any great difficulties should conditions
generally make it necessary for a tighten-
ing up of Bank accommodation, etc.
The profits shown for the year
amounted to £6560, as compared with
a profit of £3854 in the previous year ;
after reserves had been considerably
strengthened by appropriation of £lOOO
for General Reserves and writing off
£lOOO from Establishment Branch Share
Issue Expenses, and further augmenting
the reserve for unearned income to £7690.
The Chairman pointed out that this Re-
serve for Unearned Income was equiva-
lent to 75 p.c. of the interest earned by
the Company during the financial year
under review.
The attention of the Meeting was
drawn to these very encouraging results,
which had been obtained by the Board
adopting a policy of advances in Indus-
trial Finance. In this way being between
the facilities offered by the Trading Banks
and that available to Industrial Concerns
by the ordinary borrowing sources, and
at the same time greatly increasing the
Company’s securities and reducing operat-
ing costs.
Prospects for the coming year are very
encouraging, and it is the Board’s opinion
that in adopting and pursuing the policy
which they have had that they are enter-
ing a field which is not subject to the
intense competition of other fields of
finance ; and that in addition their assets
are secured in a greater proportion than
is applicable to business conducted on
other classes of security, in view of the
present conditions.
The Meeting closed with a vote of
thanks to the Directors and the Staff for
their efforts during the past year, and
that the sympathies of shareholders be
extended to the relatives of the late Mr.
G. H. Goddard, who had been the Sec-
retary of the Company since its inception.
local buying demand isn’t supported by
a flow of borrowed funds from overseas,
so there is no jolt coming from that
quarter. Nor will stoppage of trade with
Germany cause any dislocation worth
mentioning, either. For the 12 months
to June 30, Germany took only 1.84 p.c.
of the total value of Australia’s exports,
and only 3.94 p.c. of our imports came
from Germany. Importers and dealers
in purely luxury lines are likely to be
affected by the present European conflict
more than most other traders.
As for prices, he is a bold man who
would predict probable levels at the
moment. Governments will, no doubt,
take action to prevent profiteering, or
any unwarranted lift in prices. It is too
early yet to say exactly what will happen
in connection with the marketing of pur
wool and other export commodities.
Much will depend upon what the British
Government decides to do. The “Wild
Cat’s” advice to shareholders generally is
to sit tight; consult your broker before
deciding to buy or sell. Members of all
Australian Stock Exchanges have been
asked to take action to deprecate bear
activities, and so prevent any heavy fall
in share prices due to the operations of
professionals.
Outside Russia, the world’s biggest
producer, Rumania has the largest man-
ganese deposits in Europe. These are
situated in the Eastern Carpathians.
Rumania is a comparatively small pro-
ducer (annual output about 50,000 tons),
but ore reserves are figured at around
9,000,000 tons. Its output of manganese
was secured to Germany by a commercial
treaty signed in March last. The Rus-
sian output, well in excess of 3,000,000
tons p.a., comes mostly from the Chiaturi
and Malopol mines in the Caucasus dis-
trict. After Russia, the world’s next big-
gest producer is British India, and then
S. Africa and the Gold Coast and Brazil.
Manganese is an important alloy of steel,
and with aluminium it produces the
alloys now widely favored in the manu-
facture of aircraft.
# * * *
Concentrates are accumulating at Mt.
Morgan, because the new plant is tem-
porarily out of commission. The new
smelter has not been an unqualified suc-
cess, but it is not correct to say that it is
being dismantled, fhis report has been
denied,, and a. shipment of 1400 tons of
concentrates had been arranged for late
September. The war position has altered
all that, and makes it more imperative
than ever that the smelter run smoothly.
The Mines Department figures for July
production were 5661 fine oz. gold.
Although no rain has fallen the water
supply position has not worsened during
the past month. Boring has retrieved
this to some extent.
* * * *
The newly electrified dredge of Table-
land Tin, Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), has been
working without a hitch, the ample water
supply being an unqualified blessing.
Test values of lib. oxide per yard are
being substantiated, 42,000 c.y. having
produced 18 tons of tin concentrate of
over 70 p.c. grade. While the time for
dividends is probably some distance
ahead, Malcolm Newman seems satis-
fied with the co.’s ultimate prospects.
* * * *
Chief interest in Wiluna’s latest report
centres in developments on the Happy
Jack lease, in the northern section of the
property, where several payable runs of
ore are reported. During the quarter,
drives were advanced 68ft. in ore aver-
aging 4|dwt. over sft.; and at 800 ft. a
diamond-drill stabbed 3ft. of ore averag-
ing lOdwt. At 1200 ft. a drive south from
the Bulletin lease into the Happy Jack
exposed ore averaging s.3dwt. over Bft.
.for a length of 100 ft. “on a strong
shear.” The face of the drive was still
in ore. A drive from a crosscut at 4944 ft.
north on the same level has since opened
up ore averaging 7.Bdwt. over an ex-
posed width of Bft. and a length of 70ft.
In the main workings on the East lode,
at the south end of the mine, a crosscut
at 875 ft. elevation exposed one make of
ore averaging 4.7dwt. over 16ft., and an-
other at an elevation of 915 ft. averaging
6dwt. over 10ft. At 2600 ft. level a
diamond-drill, put out to test tlje East
lode shear, penetrated a mineralised
zone at an elevation of 2900 ft. averaging
3.ldwt. over 9ft. Here are the operating
results for the quarter compared with the
previous three months (shown in paren-
theses): Milled 146,600 tons (146,067
tons), yield 21,6360 z. (25,4950 z.). Esti-
mated value of gold £S 198,932
(£5216,024). Working costs, excluding
development and exploration, £5127,602
(£S 161,392). Estimated working surplus
£571,330 (£554,632). Expenditure on de-
velopment and exploration £527,488
(£535,747), construction and equipment
£51327 (£58937). The new method of
treatment has resulted in a considerable
saving in costs, with a consequent in-
crease in working surplus.
* * * *
Lake View’s revenue in sterling for the
three months to June 30 last was
£318,703. Working exes, (including £12,637
on tailings re-treated) took £168,422 and
development £18,555, leaving a profit of
£131,726. Outlay on plant and machinery
is put at £14,023, and on special develop-
ment £12,836. In all 10,175 ft. (nearly
two miles) of development was done, of
which 6391 ft. represented driving, 2126 ft.
winzing and 1227 ft. crosscutting. Most
important developments were (1) exposure
by drive on No. 2 lode at 3260 ft. level
in Chaffers block of ore averaging 6.4dwt.
for a length of 213 ft. and width of 61in.,
and (2) exposure in other drives on the
same lode and in the same block at the
1000 ft. and 1200 ft. levels of ore averag-
ing 6.4dwt. for a length of 280 ft. and
width of 56in.
* >:•• * *
Figures for Youanmi (W.A.) for the
June quarter were: Revenue £39,735,
working costs £29,378, profit £10,357, de-
velopment and capital expenditure £6342
and £1896 respectively. Gold extraction
has improved following installation of
two additional flotation cells, and two
more have been ordered. Conversion of
the oxidised plant for treatment of sul-
phides, necessitated by continued short-
age of oxidised ore, is under considera-
tion. The management “confidently ex-
pects” that sufficient sulphide ore will be
opened up in the near future to justify
an increase in plant capacity from 6000
to 10,000 tons monthly.
* * * *
Norseman (W.A.) counts on being able
to maintain present quarterly distribu-
tions of Is. a share on its proposed
enlarged capital. The new shares, how-
ever, will not rank for dividend until fully
paid (April, 1940). In view of the 220
p.c. premium asked on the issue, .some
shareholders consider the company
should at least pay interest for the use
of their money meantime.
* * * *
Yellowdine Areas (W.A.) hopes to
extract £30,000 from visible ore in the
Mayfield mine, which it recently bought
for £16,000. This figure is arrived at on
a basis of 85 p.c. recovery from 7023 tons
(£56,982), with deductions for cost of
plant, mining, treatment, administration,
etc. Cash resources (£4844) are con-
sidered sufficient to finance expenditure
up to the milling stage. The chairman
said there had been no developments in
the old locality to justify expenditure on
further exploration.
* * * *
Shareholders in Hill 50 (W.A.) were
in generous mood at the annual meeting
in Perth the other day. The directors’
remuneration was lifted from £lOO to
£5OO a year, and the managing director’s
fee was fixed at £250 for the past year
and at £5OO for the ensuing one. The
chairman said the board’s intention was
to increase volume of mill feed by at least
1000 tons to a total of 3000 tons a month
early next year.
* * * *
Gt. Boulder will pay a second interim
of 3d. sterling per share, less English in-
come tax of 3s. 6d. in the pound, on
Sept. 30, which will call for £31,850. The
co.’s shares aren’t popular in the West,
notwithstanding that they appear to be
as well backed as any other stock on the
goldmining list over there.
* * * *
Following unsatisfactory developments,
Marvel Loch Development, near Southern
Cross (W.A.), went into voluntary liqui-
dation in April, 1938. Now the liqui-
dator is reopening the Great Victoria, in
the same locality. It is a large, low-grade
proposition, worked years ago by a local
co., and for a time was profitable.
* * * *
Prospects in the Hainault section of
South Kalgurli (W.A.) were given a
fillip when a diamond drill operating at
depth cut 4ft. of high-grade ore in new
ground. The workings are being ex-
tended to open up the find.
* * * *
Yellowdine, one of De Bernales’s West-
ralian group, reports that operations
below the No. 4 (300 ft.) level (deepest
in the mine) have been attended with
“notable” success. Diamond drills have
located values ranging from lOdwt. to
34dwt. over unstated widths. These dis-
closures are considered good enough to
warrant immediate resumption of work
on deepening the main shaft.
sfc * SfC *
Douglas Christopherson, a director
since 1935, has succeeded the late John
A. Agnew at the head of the board table
of Lake View and Star. He is also a
director of five other Australian mining
cos. —Wiluna, Mt. Elliott, Lake George,
Talbot Alluvials and Homebush—as well
as being on the boards of a number of
big South and West African concerns,
including New Consolidated Gold Fields
(it controls both Lake View and Wiluna),
Simmer and Jack, Robinson Deep, Sub
Nigel, Associated Tin of Nigeria and Gold
Fields Rhodesian Development.
* * * *
Something new in safeguarding under-
writers of goldmining issues against finan-
cial loss is reported from S. Africa.
There a recent agreement gave the
underwriters power to cancel the contract
if, prior to the date of closing of appli-
cations, war broke out between any of
the European States, or between one or
more of such States with some other
State. Inclusion of safeguards against
political contingencies have since been
made in other underwriting contracts
both in S. Africa and London.


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
H
m
m
ill
■
m
111
in
m
nil
■
ill.§*
Piii® i
*. j
■
H
■ i :
Modern high-class accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with and without private
Bathrooms available. Meals at
moderate rates —unexcelled cuisine
—Dining Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and Winter-
garden, together with a first-class
orchestra.
Rooms only from 6/6 per night.
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SMOKE-OH!
“To-day my mind is only half there, and
that part is probably negative,” declares man
in Sydney divorce court.
If his condition becomes any worse
he should take up politics.
4* 4* **■
“How can I start a circulating library?” asks
correspondent.
Buy half a dozen good novels and let
your friends know that you’ve got them.
4* 4* *i* 4*
“What does your car cost you per mile?”
—Motoring journal.
It depends largely upon how close the
pubs are to one another.
+ 4* 4* 4*
“Fingerprints Foretell Sickness.”
— “World’s News."
Certainly many crooks have been laid
low with them.
4" 4* 4* 4*
“In some parts of Africa the natives sit
opposite one another for hours and just grunt.”
—Travel notes.
So chess must be a favorite game
there, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Householder hits burglar with a golf club,
and drives him out.” —News item.
But it doesn’t state in how many.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A mouse which ran across the mayor’s
table at the last meeting of the council caused
great excitement.”- —Suburban rag.
Unaccustomed as it was to public
squeaking.
•J#
“Digging Up the Wrong Street.”— “Sun.”
The ganger, it seems, absentmindedly
started on one that really needed it.
“Economy wave in film studios.”
—Film gossip.
Several stars may have to make their
current husbands do for another season.
"A ’undred fivers, two ’undred singles, fifty ten-bobs, three 'undred two-bobs, six 'undred deeners—Wot's that
add up, Dill?"
These days, a man can consider him-
self lucky if both he and his cigarette-
lighter are working.
•J*
“Crooning was invented by accident.”
—Vaudeville star.
Unfortunately it wasn’t fatal.
4* ,
“She always made poisonous remarks over
cocktails.” — Extract from novel.
Gin with a dash of bitters.
4< 4 1 4* 4*
“Kissing not an offence.”
—Melbourne Argus.
Still, many a man gets life for it.
4* 4* 4*
Explanation.
“One rhymster has set down five reasons why
men drink.” —" S. M. Herald.”
He was apparently a bachelor.
Although there is never any rhyme or
reason in their answers, married men
can give you 500 reasons why they drink.
Of course, seeing that poets are well-
versed in this matter, and are prone to
remarking “Can you stanza drink!” we
are forced to accept them as authorities.
The five reasons adduced are: (1) Be-
cause they like it, (2) ditto, (3) ditto, (4)
ditto, (5) ditto, finishing on the sad note
of blotto. D< McM.
“The first few moments of a power-drive
impose a terrific strain on a man’s stomach.
—Flying journal.
Something like the first week in a
boarding-house.
4*
“He taught his employer to play billiards in
order to curry favor with him.” — “D.T.
In the hope that he would get a good
break.
Butcher’s Holiday.
“He had been a successful butcher until his
interest in horseracing made him neglect his
business. As a result he faced bankruptcy. ’
—Court item.
With heavy steaks, he left his shop
The bookies to defeat ;
But, being too wrapped-up to stop,
He failed to make ends meat.
His creditors (fat lot he cared!)
O’er lean times made a row.
“We won’t mince matters!” they
declared.
“We want our cut —right now!”
He muttered “Tripe!” then broke all
bounds:
Deciding on a hop,
He took the few remaining pounds,
And no one got his chop !
T. W. NATHAN.
With spring upon us, tra la la!
The lovebirds bliss pursue.
They build their nest, and sing—until
The first instalment’s due.
E.
Pioneering with a Difference.
Someday Australia is going to unveil
a statue of solid brass to Andrew Mc-
Grabbit, our pioneer high-pressure sales-
man.
Andrew was not the type of pioneer
who rushed about bashing the landscape
with an axe, notwithstanding he was
always eager to get in for his cut. The
yellowed pages of his journal reveal a
man of swift and decisive action, full of
go. He had to be at times.
When Andrew first landed in Sydney
he had the ball at his feet. That the
chain attached to it irked his restless soul
was natural.
When he did go into action he gave
the settlement a sample of his craft that
made it sit up and take notice. The man
who could make early Sydney sit up
during the regime of the Rum Corps was
no lead-swinger.
The red blankets in vogue at the time
gave him an idea, and he almost had John
Macarthur sold on the suggestion to feed
his sheep with red cabbage to produce
colored wool when our first flockmaster
woke up and reached for his horse-pistol.
Andrew’s cross-country record is still offi-
cially recognised.
He next organised all the Jews into a
Christmas Ham Club, started a Bush-
rangers’ Co-operative Society, and got
the agency for the Botany Bay hair-
restorer, sales of which soared until a
keg of the stuff blew the sides out of a
man-o’-war in the harbor.
During the peak period of his success,
Andrew’s four-in-hand caused a great
stir in the ranks of the gentry, until one
night a fifth ace dropped from his sleeve.
His brilliant career was jolted to a
sudden stop one day when Macquarie
found himself signing on the dotted line
for one of his own stone quarries.
Andrew finished chiselling the very stone
he tried to chisel Macquarie with.
Somewhere over the canyons of barter
in Sydney hovers the spirit of Andrew
McGrabbit weeping bitter, salt tears over
the company-promoters’ paradise he
missed by being born too soon!
D. McM.
Some Little-known Facts About
Arabia.
1.
General Knowledge.
This rectangular-shaped piece of hot
sand and rock is bounded on the s.-w. by
Yemen, and on all other sides by he-men
who ride around clad in gaily-striped tent
flies and spend their time looking for
beautiful English girls who want to be
romantically carried off.
Arabia boasts the world’s most efficient
meteorological service. The prediction
issued daily at the great observatory at
El Watalife that it will be either “much
hot,” “hotter still” or “greatly hot” has
not failed once in years to be borne out
by the facts. So important is this work
considered by the nation that the Gov-
ernment’s action during a depression in
putting the rain-gauge reader on part-time
led to tribal riots and had to be reversed.
The last shower fell in 1882, when the
panic-stricken inhabitants fled to the
shelter of a sirocco. Some of them
haven’t been sighted since.
Chief industries are mirage-watching,
tent-folding and passing on tales of
Arabian nights.
The Arab is simple, gloomy and opti-
mistic. The combination of these traits
is exemplified strikingly in his invariable
habit of taking his fishing-rod with him
on his desert excursions. On coming to
a likely-looking mirage he optimistically
does a spot of angling ; the gloom fol-
lows his failure to get a bite.
It was Longfellow who first discovered
the national pastime. After intensive re-
search he found that they steal away at
every opportunity, but only after having
neatly folded up their tents. A tent with
a knife-edge crease is to the Arab what
well-creased trousers are to a Mayfair
playboy. As there is no water to spare,
tents are dry-cleaned by leaving them out
in a simoom.
A scarcity of firewood doesn’t incon-
venience the Arabian housewife. The
only thing taken hot is coffee. Owing to
the terrific heat the beans are picked red-
hot off the shrubs. As water drawn from
oases is in the daytime almost boiling, it
only needs to be put in a pot with the
beans and left a few moments on the sand
to be cooked. Coffee can’t be obtained
hot at night.
Most Arabs become restless and get
the urge to lead a nomadic life. When
the Arab lights out into the open spaces
he is called a Bedouin and acquires a
steed —no Arab ever refers to his mount
as a horse —and makes a comfortable
living raiding salt caravans which are
bound for Mecca or Medina. It may be
wondered why salt is so much used, in
view of the scarcity of water and the
prohibition of strong drink imposed by
the Koran. Actually, salt as an article
of diet was popularised by the propa-
ganda of the vested coffee interests.
Botanists have met with outstanding
success in their hybridisation experi-
ments. It was Ali Mustav who crossed
the incense with the senna and thus
evolved an aromatic senna tea which has
become a rival of coffee as the national
beverage. And as with Western nations,
a lot of grafting goes on. Eez Gongoo
Fey did a fine job for the nation when
he succeeded in grafting the millet, the
grain of which furnishes a coarse type of
porridge, with the muscatel grape. By
this means he ensured the edibility of the
worn stumps of broom; the only draw-
back is that Arabs are now compelled
to spit the seeds out of their matutinal
burgoo.
Incidentally, the spitting-out of date-
seeds is one of the first things an Arab
teaches his Nejdee steed (Nejdee is a
corruption of the Australian “neddy”).
Failure to so train him from colthood
would mean that his mount might, after
his evening meal, go down with an at-
tack of appendicitis when far from any
vet.
On very long stages camels are used.
When the Bedouin wants to put his oont
into top gear he just reaches down and
pulls a handful of hair out. Enraged,
the brute lunges forward. But the pluck-
ing has a dual purpose. The Bedouin
carefully tucks the hair away in his
burnous. At the end of the day’s journey
he dips the end of each hair in gum
arabic and pushes it into a bit of cloth.
After a few journeys he has got a camel-
hair mat. When there isn’t a square inch
of hair left on the camel he says fare-
well to his steed and sells it to the zoo.
Smoking is universally indulged in,
social position being dictated by the
length of the pipe a man sucks at. Thus,
only the very poor puff at a sebeel, a very
short clay dab that doesn’t go beyond
their noses. A Croesus may have a
narghile with the tube so far away from
him that he has to get one of his slaves
to smoke it for him. Tobacco ranges
from mild to very strong, according to
the type and age of the camel.
S. W. K.


ESTABLISHED 1834
THE
COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY, LIMITED
mm
iV.V.-OT.
II
s:
Head Office
Syduey, N.S.W.
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA, LTD.
(Used wholly in the business)
RESERVE CAPITAL. . .. 4,739,012 10 0
HEAD OFFICE:
343 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
General Manager: C. Darvall.
LONDON OFFICE:
18 Birchin Lane, Lombard Street, E.C.3.
LONDON BANKERS;
The Bank of England, Westminster Bank, Ltd.,
Barclay s Bank, Ltd., National Provincial Bank, Ltd.
Branches and Receiving Offices Throughout New South
Wales, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia, and at
Canberra, A.C.T.
Agents throughout the world.
ALL CLASSES OF BANKING BUSINESS TRANSACTED.
PACK youp SUIT
in less than a minute . . . without
folding or crushing ... in a
lightweight Globite Aeroplane
Case. One and two suit sizes.
Iff#
CLOBITE
AEROPLANE
CASE
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD
ESTABLISHED 1872. ; " ; '
Head Office: Ocean House, 32 Martin Place, Sydney
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: Temple Court, 422-24 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Primary Building, Creek & Adelaide Sts., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. G. BROWN, General Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
On Our Resources
Australia now being at war, another
vast influence becomes operative in our
economic life. Before the 1914-18 con-
flagration this country fed itself, but
largely clothed itself by feeding others.
It imported nearly all its steel. Most
steel manufactures came from abroad,
as did almost anything calling for intri-
cacy of craftsmanship.
The Great War gave us the founda-
tions of our present extensive spinning,
weaving and knitting industry ; it coin-
cided with the establishment of the long-
planned Newcastle steelworks ; by forc-
ing us on to our own resources it gave
us a hundred-and-one new smaller sec-
ondary industries. It also loaded us with
a substantial debt, and the beginning
of Commonwealth income tax; it
started an inflation in our costs and prices
that eventually led to slump.
The depression of 1930-34, by restrict-
ing our overseas buying power, again
forced us to explore further avenues of
Australian manufacture ; this time enor-
mous additions were made to the list of
“Australian-made.” This time, also,
enormous additions were made to the
taxation burden. For the new industries
the country can be thankful; for much
of the taxation the people can hardly
feel decently or reasonably treated.
We enter the present war infinitely
stronger industrially and better equipped
than we did in 1914. In the realm of poli-
tical economy we are weaker, as are most
countries. From the outset we must
guard against waste in the political and
industrial fields, against inflating the civil
service, against allowing a corn-beef rush
for “nests” in the public offices and a
further overloading of the national hack.
But nothing can be gained by preci-
pitate action or panic. The employee
and the employer, the businessman and
the investor, will serve themselves and
their country best by keeping calm and
exercising commonsense and fairplay.
We may have war-time inflation creep-
ing into prices, wages and interest
costs before long, but it is in the
national interest that all employment-
giving business and investments should
be protected. So the people will expect
that some endeavor shall be made to
equalise all the sacrifices that must in-
evitably come. Equality of sacrifice
means the maintenance of order; and
if we manage to keep our affairs orderly
we shall lessen the danger of losing an
economic balance.
Gold and Sterling
Britain’s abandonment of the gold
standard in September, 1931, was forced
on it by the flight of capital at that period
taking place as a result of a political
crisis in Britain and a financial smash
in Germany (in which British interests
were . involved), the general effect of
slump being an influence behind the
other outward signs of trouble. Of
course, Britain’s return to gold in 1925
on an 855.-an-ounce basis had brought
deflation in its wake that has been blamed
by many for a number of the economic
difficulties that followed, including the
eventual abandonment of the standard.
The price of gold rose in sterling cur-
rency after 1931, and as Australia had
already abandoned gold, and eventually
fixed its exchange rate’at £125 Australian
to the £lOO sterling, the value of gold
in Australian money rose as its value in
sterling rose—in other words, as sterling
depreciated. Before the end of 1931
the sterling price of gold had lifted from
the old level of 85s. to 1265. lOd. ; in
1932 the average price was 118 s. Id. ;
1933, 1245. 9d. ; 1934 (the year in which
Roosevelt decided to devalue the U.S.
dollar), 1375. Bd. ; 1935, 1425. 2d.; 1936,
140 s. 4d. ; 1937, 140 s. 9d. ; 1938, 1425. 6d.
Over the last four of those years the
influence of the Exchange Equalisation
Fund in keeping the exchange rate
steady is evident. During 1935, ’36 and
’37 Britain experienced a period of great
industrial activity, and, by reason of
various factors, acquired a record hold-
ing of gold. For about twelve, months
it has been losing gold, in spite of the
fact that for nearly eight months of
1939 the price of the metal had been
kept steady at the higher level of 148 s.
6d. The consequent • additional revenue
from the metal, to which 25 p.c. is added
in Australian currency, has been an aid
to Australian goldmines in the problem
of combating the increasing costs that
have been' evident for nearly two years
throughout the whole of our economy.
Twelve days ago, on Friday, Aug. 25,
the British Exchange Equalisation Fund
let the foreign exchange rate go. The over-
valuation of sterling had induced many
people to change their sterling money into
gold and ship the proceeds to New York.
The control that had been exercised to
keep sterling stable during a period in
which funds were being rushed from
London to New York.,for protection gave
sterling, for exchange purposes, a. falsely
high value and gold a falsely low one.
Such stability was valuable while it lasted,
no doubt, and had the international dead-
lock passed quickly, as other crises on
other occasions had done, there might
have been no necessity for knocking
sterling down to a point where it
wouldn’t pay to send it abroad.
The maintenance of sterling at 148 s.
6d. for so long at least should have
enabled the Equalisation Fund to find
a ready market for its metal at a profit-
able price, and so reimburse itself for
any losses made hitherto. Though 148 s.
6d. was much lower than the highest
quote touched last week after “freeing,”
it was considerably higher than the aver-
age buying price in previous years.
Immediately after sterling was allowed
to drift gold went to £7 10s. 6d. per fine
ounce, then £7 15s. On Monday of last
week it soared to £8 Is., but on Tuesday,
when the international “situation” still
dragged on without war, it fell to £7 17s.
On Wednesday the quote was £7 18s. 6d.,
and just before Germany’s invasion of
Poland the price rose further. The price
of gold in the Commonwealth fluctuated
accordingly.
Base metals, too, rose in London,
partly because of sterling’s depreciation.
Commercial metals, however, haven’t
the same automatic response to currency
behavior as gold. At the moment many
influences are at work among base
metals, especially copper, the position
of which was dealt with in these pages
last week.
But apart from the statistical position
oi the various metals, it is interesting to
compare their London market prices with
quotes for gold. Here is a comparison
going back 14 months: — .
Electro.
Copper, Lead, Spelter, Tin, Gold,
Ton. Ton. Ton. Ton. Fine Oz.
June ..£39.8 £14.0 £12.9 £177.6 140 s. 9d.
July . . 44.8 14.9 14.1 192.7 141 s. 3d.
Aug. .. 46.3 14.8 13.5 193.1 1425. 6d.
Sept. .. 47.6 15.2 14.0 193.9 1445. 6d.
Oct. .. 51.7 16.2 15.1 207.1 1455. 9d.
Nov. .. 51.5 16.1 14.4 214.0 1475. 7d.
Dec. ..49.4 15.1 13.7 214.6 148 s. lOd.
Jan. ..48.9 14.5 13.7 215.6 148 s. lid.
Feb. .. 47.8 14.3 13.5 214.0 148 s. 4d.
Mar. .. 48.6 14.7 13.7 215.5 148 s. sd.
Apr. .. 48.2 14.3 13.4 218.5 148 s. 6d.
May .. 47.9 14.5 13.7 225.7 148 s. 6d.
June .. 47.9 14.6 14.0 227.6 148 s. sd.
July .. 49.1 15.0 14.2 229.9 148 s. 6d.
Aug. 21 51.0 16.2 14.4 229.9 148 s. 7d.
Aug. 28 53.5 16.7 15.3 229.9 161 s. Od.
Aug. 29 53.5 16.4 15.2 229.9 1575. Od.
The general tendency has been for prices
to firm with quotes for gold, but not
actually in proportion to gold’s move-
ment. Tin is subject to pool control,
and the spot price has been unchanged
for several weeks. A firming had taken
place in the forward price last week.
With sterling currency now organised
on an emergency basis, present land-
marks in the shape of average prices for
commodities may soon be lost to sight.
But a great deal will depend on the
extent to which credit and prices are
subjected to control. In the present
emergency. the pegging of currency, in-
terest rates and prices is likely to be a
more widespread operation than it has
been on any'other occasion.
The taking over,-of control of Aus-
tralian exchange transactions with over-
seas countries by the Commonwealth
Government last week (through its agent
the Commonwealth Bank, and trading
banks as sub-agents) followed an efflux
of capital from the country as a result of
war scares and a bad beginning, to the
trading year. Trading banks have been
allowed to exercise their discretion in
allocating exchange up to £5OOO per
person or firm per month for genuine
trading requirements. Larger sums have
to be approved by the Commonwealth
Bank. Overseas funds may be acquired
by the Government, any dispute as to
price, etc., to be referred to a Supreme
Court or the High Court; for the present
this power is not being exercised. New
gold production and coin in excess of
£25 must be sold to the Commonwealth
Bank or its agents within a month, the
price to be based on London quotes, plus
Australian exchange. People going
abroad will not be allowed more than
£250 sterling travelling exes, (apart from
fares) for each adult person. Persons
living abroad may be sent £lO sterling a
week. There is no restriction on the
payment of dividends or interest to
absentee shareholders, etc.
The adverse Australian balance of
trade for July was £1,336,000 sterling,
compared with £575,000 in 1938-39.
Exports of merchandise were down
£233,000 ; merchandise imports were up
£252,000. Net gold exports fell £276,000.
* * * *
Up to Thursday of last week Austra-
lian ’Change dealings were carried on in
a spirit of increasing optimism, though
there was a tendency for both buyer and
seller to finesse as prices regained the
level established before the Danzig dead-
lock. London and New York ’Changes
were much the same as Australian ; but
on Thursday afternoon in London and
on Friday morning in Australia uncer-
tainty again became paramount among
the feelings and emotions of share-
dealers, and B.H.P. scrip dropped from
665. 3d. to 635. overnight. Electro. Zinc
ords., ex Is. 9\d. div., fell from 51s. 6d. to
48s. British Tobacco ords. moved down
from 465. 3d. to 445., while Tooth’s
Brewery, a Sydney stock, dropped froiji
525. 3d. to 50s. There was some recovery
in B.H.P. and Electro. Zinc in the after-
noon ; following the outbreak of war
in Europe the ’Changes closed on Satur-
day morning.
* * S
Adelaide Steam, true to custom, has
shown little more profit than was neces-
sary to pay the 1\ p.c. div., though the
higher interim of 3| p.c. seemed to sug-
gest that the management had no doubt
about the co.’s ability to afford such a div.
half-way through the year. Profit
(£176,610) was arrived at after openly
adding £25,000 to insurance and renewals
reserves. In the preceding term, when
the profit claimed was £162,927, £20,000
was the sum added to these specific re-
serves, which largely represent undistri-
buted profit. In 1937 £lO,OOO was allo-
cated.
0: i‘\
The number of new motor-cars regis-
tered in N.S.W. during the first seven
months of 1939 was down 10.7 p.c. com-
pared with the same period of 1938, and
down 14.5 p.c. on 1937 figures. Average
weekly registrations (Jan.-July) during 1937
were 475 ; 1938, 455 ; 1939, 406. The
fall in registrations of new lorries and
vans has been much heavier ; from 186
weekly in 1938 to 144 in 1939—a slump
of 22.6 p.c. Between June, 1937, and June,
1938, there was an increase of 24,266 in
the total number of vehicles on N. S.
Wales roads ; the increase between June,
1938, and June, 1939, was 17,022.
* * * *
As a tentative figure that should be
pretty near the truth, 1,607,347 fine
ounces is the estimate of Australian gold
production for 1938-39—an increase of
128,CfScz. on 1937-38. The rate of in-
crease is tapering off. In ’37-38 a growth
of 178,3560 z. was shown; in ’36-37,
238,7250 z. Last year’s production was
worth £14,560,987 in Australian cur-
rency, up £1,776,000. Gold averaged
181 s. (Aust.) per ounce, as against 1735.


SECURITY FOR
YOUR SAVINGS...
Goreful investors will consider
FIRST AUSTRALIAN UNIT TRUST
which spreads funds over the
shares of 20 Companies.
Custodian Trustees for investors:
U nion 1 nsurance Society of Canton
Ltd.
for a free Booklet to
the Managers of the Trust:
BOX 4028 V.V, G.P.0., SYDNEY
TELEPHONE: B 5294
BE SURE AND INSURE
WITH THE
WESTERN
Assurance Company
15 Hamilton Street, Sydney.
(Established 8 7 years.)
Every class of Insurance Transacted
except Life.
Goldsbrough, Mort & Co., Ltd.,
General Agents in Australia.
Ski
i'**
>Vu
m *
j)<y iiin*
# &
r§Sg
«';/',/i'iA gg?
V'“
3WBfra^
p-1«
mhup.
(to::,'(i'
• stfWtMSr
! ,i,•*'• * VK,V '!^
‘‘/.u.S
<w
afr-
>»s« .
»
m erica i
© ©
provide the peak in pleasure!
Stirring sport . . .
majestic scenery...
and 20th Century
comfort make moun-
tain resorts of America
exciting playgrounds.
Sun Valley in Idaho —the
country’s foremost year ’round
sports center —is the new ski capital of
the world. At the smart Sun Valley
Lodge, or popular Challenger Inn, you
can enjoy every outdoor sport at its best,
in a magnificent mountain setting.
Wherever you travel...in California’s
Sierras ... in the sunny Southwest . . .
in the Rockies and the Black Hills,
you’ll find mountain playgrounds that
make thrilling interludes on your
American tour.
Speeding you from place to place, with
gaiety an open signal all the way, are
America’s crack trains. Sleek, smooth,
silent, they wind through mountain
fastnesses, across the desert and plains
with a kind of magic ease. They are
stalfed by attendants whose one inter-
est is your comfort. Smart cocktail
bars, radios, even a library, combine
with famed cuisine to make each hour
an episode in luxurious living. Flexible
routes enable you to indulge every
whim of travel . . . generous stopover
privileges and invitingly low fares
make all America “open house,” with
desirable economy.
All this is a prelude to the Atlantic
and England... the thrilling entr’acte
in the glamorous pageant of the New
World Route “home.” First come the
South Seas —New Zealand, Fiji, Samoa,
Hawaii. Over the Pacific you glide in
your palatial Matson liner, Mariposa
or Monterey, from Sydney to Cali-
fornia in just 18 days!
For full details of your land and sea route to England write us
for our free, illustrated booklet, “England Across America
AMERICAN RAILWAYS TRAVEL AND INFORMATION BUREAU
z
Matson Lino
The Oceanic Steamship Company
(Incorporated in U.S. A. • Limited Liability)
PRUDENTIAL BUILDING
4th Floor, 39 Martin Place, Sydney
Commonwealth Bank Report
The bank board, at the outset in its
report, remarks that the low level of
export prices which threatened the in-
ternal activity of Australia at the end
of 1938 has not yet gravely influenced
the position. The decline in export in-
come is now more evident than it was
(July trade figures were particularly bad),
but unemployment for the June quarter
was no higher than 9.7 p.c., compared
with 8.6 p.c. for the corresponding
portion of 1938. The position in N. S.
Wales seems worse than in other States.
Retail sales for January-June, 1939, were
much the same as in 1938, but manu-
facturing activity has slackened off
slightly.
The decline in economic activity, the
board has noted, is certainly small when
compared with the fall in external in-
come ; the level of export prices fell
38 p.c. between April, 1937, and May,
1939.
On this matter of prices the board re-
ports :
Over the last two years there has been a
fall in the prices of rural products at the
same time as the prices of manufactured
goods have shown a tendency to increase.
The Australian experience is the reflection
of a world-wide movement, (and affects
Australia not only through the difficulties
of rural industries but also because the
prices of Australian exports have fallen
much more heavily than import prices. In
Australia wholesale prices have shown
little, change during the past year, but there
has been a slight increase in retail prices.
Wages have risen, but have not yet reached
pre-depression levels.
The bank itself has endeavored to bear
with Governments in the difficulties of
the moment, hoping that the national in-
come in relation to forms of expenditure
will be in a happier position later on:
In the belief that the adverse influences
affecting economic activity are the result
of a disparity between export and import
prices, which is likely to be reduced, the
board has continued its policy of assist-
ing Governments to finance their loan pro-
grammes, and of avoiding any undue con-
traction of credit.
Although export prices may be about to
take a turn for the better, it is this page’s
belief that more than a tiding-over of
the present low-income period is neces-
sary to put us on a reasonably sound
financial basis. The rise in production
costs will have to be stopped—before it
crashes of its own accord. In Britain it
was checked many months ago. Here
there are obvious signs of continuing
inflation.
The bank board records the dismal
fact that the finances of Governments
“worsened during the year. With the
exception of the Commonwealth and
Queensland, all Governments have re-
corded deficits.” Also, it mentions jan
unvarnished fact that speaks louder than
any comment: “The estimates of the
States provided for net deficits of
£441,000, whereas the actual net deficits
were about £4,200,000.”
Sydney “Herald,” touching on the
board’s report, said “the directors would
add greatly to the usefulness of their
report.... were they also to comment on
the position as they see it from the
knowledge which the transactions of the
bank give them.” To do that, however,
and to give due space to the more im-
portant factors affecting our economy,
the board would need to reserve a large
area for commentary on the giant Gov-
ernmental tail that tries to wag the
national dog. Or does the tail try?
Government control has brought us a
crippling taxation burden, but its ex-
penditure is extravagant and wasteful. It
is the weakest feature in our economy.
Obviously, with a war on our hands now,
we want no weaknesses.
The programme for 1939-40 provides
for an increase in State borrowing for
“works,” the board'reports, and a sub-
stantial increase in Commonwealth bor-
rowing, particularly Tor" defence. It is
noted also that new semi-Government
bodies in some States hav'e brought about
“undesirable competition” with , the
Loan Council’s operations ; the result has
been higher interest rates and weakened
support for Consolidated loans.
Associated Pulp and Paper (Burnie,
Tas.) showed a loss of £51,823 during the
year to April 30. No. 1 paper machine
began commercial production on Aug.
27, 1938, and the pulp mill started in
December. No. 2 paper mill will
begin this month. It was a period of
running-in and market development, and
the making of paper from eucalyptus
pulp proved more difficult than the pros-
pectus suggested. Furthermore, the co.
has had to revise its opinion about costs
of production ; the prospectus reckoned
that no tariff protection would be neces-
sary, but lately the co. has been before
the Tariff Board asking for duties on a
wide range of papers, some of which it
does not manufacture. The Tariff Board
has not yet made its report on the appli-
cation. The co.’s board does not consider
last year’s loss to be indicative of future
results. Support for the co.’s shares has
dropped away sharply. But it would
seem to be mainly a matter of time
before the business will be operating on
a profitable basis.
* * * *
Bradford Cotton (Sydney) has shown
a net profit of £29,001 for 1938-39, up
£4130. By reason of the new capital
issued during the year, which had not
got fully to work, the rate of earning to
average ord. capital, after allowing for
pref. requirements, dropped to 16.1 p.c.,
against 16.5 p.c. in the preceding term.
The ord. div. stays at p.c. Three
important developments have occurred in
the co.’s affairs lately. It has formed
C. and D. Mills Pty. to turn out canvas
and ducks for military purposes, Sanfor-
ising Services of Australia for pre-shrink-
ing cotton cloths by a new process, and
it has acquired control of Austral Silk
and Cotton Mills, Melbourne.
* * * *
Merger negotiations between Davies,
Coop and Co. (Melb.) and Stirling Henry,
Ltd., Sydney, both in the cotton textile
business, are still alive. Something defi-
nite should be known in about a month’s
time.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
DANZIG.
[With one exception—an extract from “Der Angrift”—
the articles on Danzig on this page are letters from private
individuals to the editors of newspapers. By presenting
suggestions for a compromise that could be reached in
favorable circumstances, and by demonstrating the
apparently irreconcilable difference between the German
and British points of view, one trying to treat Danzig
as a local problem and the other regarding it as a
symbol of importance to the whole of Europe, the
letters give a complete picture of the issues involved.]
“The Nazi Fallacy.”
(Condensed from a letter to London “Times” by
Edwyn Bevan.)
Nazi arguments about Danzig are wide of the
mark. They exert themselves to prove that the popu-
lation of Danzig is preponderantly German, and that,
if the fate of Danzig were decided by the general will
of the Danzigers, it would be incorporated in the
Reich.
True; but, in order to base upon these facts the
Nazi contention, you have to bring in the principle
that the population of every area should have the
political status and connection which the majority
desire, the principle commonly described by the word
“self-determination.” We may call it principle A.
Up to last March Herr Hitler professed to make this
principle his rule, and his actions preserved a certain
appearance of according with it. Had he adhered to it
the German case regarding Danzig would be strong,
and there would be a considerable body of opinion in
this country, as there was before last March, favor-
able to it.
Last March Herr Hitler, by his seizure of Bohemia
and Moravia, brought into operation another prin-
ciple. We may call it principle B. Where the posses-
sion of a particular area forms part of the defensive
system of a neighboring State that State may occupy
the area, even if it is dead against the will of its inhabi-
tants. On this principle the Poles have a stronger
case regarding Danzig than the Germans have regard-
ing the Czech country.
It is no good now the Germans appealing to
principle A. The application of principle B to Danzig
is a far lesser violation of principle A than the Ger-
man application of it to the Czechs. In the first place,
the numbers affected are much smaller, some 500,000
Danzigers to 7,000,000 Czechs. In the second place
there is no question of the Danzigers being subjected
to the Poles, as the Czechs have been to the Germans.
The Poles do not try to make Danzig Polish, but only
to prevent its political union with Germany.
The fundamental fallacy in all this Nazi propa-
ganda is to ignore the profound difference made in the
world situation by what Herr Hitler did last March.
Power Politics
(Condensed from a letter by Chas. Sarolea in the
“Scotsman." A Belgian of great distinction, long domi-
ciled in Ediburgh, Dr. Sarolea is an accepted authority
on European affairs. He has written many books, some
on Poland and the U.S.S.R. (his “Impressions of
Russia," published in 1924, were translated into nine
languages), and with pen and voice he was active
for the Allies in 1914-18.
Although I have the deepest sympathy for the
Polish people and a profound admiration for their
patriotism, I do not feel bound to approve the amaz-
ing blunders recently committed by Polish politicians.
Since the Polish State regained its independence,
on at least five occasions it demonstrated its belief
in the legitimacy of power politics:
(1) When Poland thought itself threatened by
Bolshevik propaganda Marshal Pilsudski invaded
Southern Russia, and so strong was the indignation in
British Labor circles that the trade unions threatened
a general strike if British munitions were sent to
Danzig.
(2) Because Poland believed that it had not re-
ceived a fair deal in the partition of Silesia, a Polish
volunteer legion, under Korfanty, invaded Western
Silesia.
(3) Because Poland was convinced that Western
Lithuania was historically an integral part of Poland,
a Polish army occupied and annexed the province of
Wilno, although the League of Nations had allotted
that province to the Lithuanian Government.
(4) Because Lithuania persistently refused for 15
years to recognise the partition of her western
territory, the Polish Government, two years ago, sent
an ultimatum to compel the Government of Kovno
to restore diplomatic relations.
(5) Last October, Poland, believing that she had
a claim on Teschen, took advantage of the desperate
position of Czechoslovakia and sent an army to
occupy Teschen. Not even the ultimatum of Comrade
Stalin could stop the Poles from carrying through the
annexation of a territory which the League of Nations
had allotted to Czechoslovakia.
Nor can it be said that Poland has shown any
great inclination to abandon the use of power politics
in her domestic affairs. The Treaty of Versailles had
incorporated in Poland from 5,000,000 to 6,000,000
Ukrainians. Those Ukrainians were never asked
whether they agreed to this incorporation. Nor did
the Polish State ever agree to test, by plebiscite, the
wishes of the Ukrainian people. The League of
Nations held half a dozen plebiscites wherever
German minorities were concerned. But the Ukrainian
minorities were never given a chance to express their
aspirations, nor has the Polish Government ever con-
sented either to apply in any form the principle of
self-determination or to grant to her Ukrainian
minorities any large measure of self-government.
Herr Hitler’s two proposals, the incorporation of
Danzig and the building of an extra-territorial road or
“autostrasse” which would henceforth link Western
Prussia and Eastern Prussia, would have been looked
upon in normal times as a perfectly reasonable and
practicable compromise. If it be objected that to
agree to those two proposals might have encouraged
the Reich to make further demands, I can only reply
that to accept such an objection would mean that
Poland would have a moral right to declare a pre-
ventive war in the present simply because Germany
might possibly attack Poland in the future.
If we refuse to accept this sinister and un-
warranted assumption of the unavoidable necessity
of waging a preventive war against a possible danger
in the future there is no compelling reason why
Poland should not accept the German proposals as a
fair basis for negotiations.
The first proposal, the incorporation of Danzig
into the Reich, is in accordance with the principle of
self-determination. It is also in conformity with the
14 Points of President Wilson.
The argument that Poland needs an outlet to the
sea no longer applies to-day, because the deliberate
policy of the Polish Government has destroyed its
validity. For the new Polish State, shortly after the
war, built, with French capital, the enormous new
harbor of Gdynia, which gave Poland a second and
more convenient outlet to the Baltic. We are entitled
to ask why, if Poland considered Danzig indispensable
to give her access to the sea, she should have built
another port.
The Corridor constitutes a genuine grievance. Long
before the advent of Hitler that grievance was unani-
mously admitted by British public opinion, and the
creation of the Corridor was denounced by British
politicians of every party as one of the crowning
blunders of the Treaty of Versailles. The Corridor has
cut up the body politic of Prussia into two parts. It has
torn from the German Reich the territory of Eastern
Prussia, which is the cradle of modern Germany, and
which is sacred ground to every German patriot.
The permanent sacrifice of the Corridor is con-
ceivable only if Germany and Poland agree in the
future to live as friendly neighbors. But the mere
possibility that the problem might be reopened at
some future time is no reason why the two countries
should not make an honest attempt to try a com-
promise at present.
Czechoslovakia
(From a second letter by Chas. Sarolea in the
“Scotsman.”)
The Polish-German differences about Danzig have
been, ever since 1921, a hardy perennial in every
Assembly of the League. One of Hitler’s first acts
was to call a truce. He was the only man who was
strong enough to persuade his country to make so
unpopular an agreement as was the 1934 pact with
Poland. , ...
It is very unfortunate that, in considering the
German-Polish conflict, we are inevitably thinking of
Czechoslovakia. But the case of Czechoslovakia pro-
vides no analogy. The tragedy of Czechoslovakia
was one of incurable domestic dissensions between
Czechs, Germans, Hungarians and Slovaks, which
resulted in the alienation of all her national minorities,
and which therefore were bound to end in disruption
and suicide. It was also a tragedy of almost incredible
diplomatic blunders which made any lasting reconcilia-
tion between the Germans and the Czechs impossible.
For Czechoslovakia was called into existence as a
military bastion against Germany, and until the end
she was the prisoner of her alliance with France and
Soviet Russia.
The Polish-German conflict is fundamentally
different, at least in its international aspects. For not
only has Poland hitherto preserved her diplomatic
independence, but, so far from being a bastion against
Germany, she is to the German Reich an invaluable
buffer State. And a buffer State can be useful only
if it is strong.
A Danzig Citizen’s Views
(Under the above heading London “Times” published
this letter —here condensed —from H. R. Haferkorn,
Professor at the Technische Hochschule, Danzig. It
was a reply to a “Times” leader on Germany’s
“Familiar Tactics.”)
You suggest that the Danzigers “might well
prefer to be left with the status and the Consti-
tution allotted to and willingly adopted by themselves
after the war.” I recall the spontaneous mass demon-
strations by which practically the whole of the Danzig
population in 1920 protested passionately against the
severance of their city from the German Motherland.
Instead of “willingly” adopting their lot the Danzigers
have always—before 1933 and after—fostered one
ardent desire: to return to Germany.
During the last 20 years their cause has been
backed up by numerous English, French, American
and other writers, and it is most disconcerting for
them to see that the simple issue has recently been
drowned bv the backwash of political emotions whicn
made Danzig the “symbol of freedom and indepena-
ence” for which not only Poland but also England
is willing to fight. ,
You say “if (Danzig) were forcibly seized and
militarised by Germany it would place Poland first
economically and then politically at the mercy of the
Reich,” and a little later that, “fortified and in German
hands, it would tip the balance of sea-power in the
Baltic in favor of Germany, and on the land side
command the approach of Poland to her only sea-
board.” Years before Hitler came into power General
Weygand summed up the strategic problem of the
Polish Corridor in these words:' “Useless in times of
peace, it cannot be defended in war-time. This is
fundamentally true. If, therefore, Poland’s strategical
position on the Baltic is in no way aggravated by an
alteration of the status of Danzig, there seems no
reason why she should reject for ever a peaceful solu-
tion on the basis of an “unconditional return” of
Danzig to the Reich.
There can be no bartering over the German char-
acter of the Free City, and there need be no bartering
over Polish economic rights in Danzig. For, once
a settlement is reached, it is definitely in the interest
of Germany and particularly of Danzig that Poland
should have all trading facilities in Danzig which she
wants.
“Der Angriff” Speaks
(This truculent statement of the German attitude by a
Nazi newspaper is extracted from the recent book
“Beware of the English’’ (Hamisli Hamilton). Note the
reference of Soviet Russia —singularly tactless in the light
of recent events.)
“Will Poland avoid war and give up Danzig,
which is already virtually a part of Germany? Will
she agree to concede to Germany a free zone cut-
ting straight across the Polish Corridor? Will yet
further demands be made which will still more reduce
Poland’s status as a military Power? That is to-
morrow’s secret.” These words are taken from an
article by General Armengaud in the French news-
paper “Depeche de Toulouse.” Ihese are remarkable
questions which the General asks, remarkable not so
much because of their geographical significance as
because of the way in which they are put. “Will
confidence ? Will Poland ? Will the Reich ?
Will yet further..,..?”
The gallant soldier who asks these questions
speaks in the name of the democracies. What in-
genuousness! What helplessness! No one knows
what is going to happen. Even the numerous guaran-
tees about which England is painfully stuttering do
not relieve the hideous tension. The rich nations get
no rest. Poor rich countries ! _
General Armengaud ends his article with the
words: “That is to-morrow’s secret.” The policy of
the Western Powers is surrounded with question
marks and secrets. In England they are thunder-
struck at the reaction of the German people to the
British attitude. Does the British nation realise that
its politicians have, by their purposeless and peace-
disturbing ways, absolutely and irrevocably broken
any links that existed between the two peoples ? Does
the British nation really appreciate the extent of the
loss it has just suffered? Apparently not, for neither
press nor wireless mentions it.
So we may as well say quite plainly that with the
generation which at present controls England we no
longer seek to reach an agreement. We have no
interest in a policy of international conflicts such as
England is conducting. We have no confidence in a
diplomacy which is perpetually losing its nerve. And
we have no sympathy for a ruling class which forgets
all the ties of civilisation and of history, and forsakes
all reason, in order to have on its side Bolshevik and
semi-Bolshevik allies. Six months ago we gave Britain
the chance to escape without loss of prestige from a
situation into which she had been led by sheer vanity.
We will not give her a second chance. On the con-
trary, we await her final exposure with that perfect
composure with which the disinterested . onlooker
watches the denouement of a tragedy for which he has
been sent complimentary tickets by the dying hero.
One section of English public opinion no
longer responds to the policy of the Government;
the other section is overexcited, nervous, apprehensive.
And people are asking themselves in whispers, but
quite distinctly, why Britain’s frontier lies on the Vis-
tula and why British policy seeks alliance with the
lords of the Kremlin, the slaughterers of the Tsar,
the murderers of the near relatives of the British King.
And what is happening here? Compare our feel-
ing now with that in September. We are perfectly
calm and collected. Our men have a clear apprecia-
tion of what is necessary and a sure instinct for the
future without talking much about either. There is
no one who is obsessed by fear of war and not a soul
who changes long-settled plans in frantic haste. Our
women, too, take part in anti-aircraft precautions with-
out having bad dreams at night of raiding ’planes.
And, above all, there is no one who attaches any
real importance to a guarantee given by England. We
have all the calm of a man who keeps his hands in his
pockets because he has learned to wait for his chance.
And we can answer General Armengaud’s question
about to-morrow’s secret with the words: In the war
of nerves we are the victors. — “Der Angriff.”
Constructive Peace Policy.
(Digest of a letter by Arnold Wilson, M.P., in London
“New Statesman and Nation.’’)
Having held his Majesty’s commission since 1
was 19, and having served the Crown for 20 years, 1
hope that I may be acquitted of any lack of belief ir
the future of the nation to which I belong and whose
servant I still am. Having played my part from 1914
to 1918 as soldier and administrator, having seen many
Study in Blue.
A “London Times” man attended the Great
Moscow Parade in July:—
The performers numbered nearly 40,000 .....
There was endless glorification of Stalin, and
frequently, grouped around his übiquitous por-
trait, appeared the portraits of other leading
personalities.
There were many detachments carrying
rifles or representations of weapons of every
kind. Japan and Germany were the targets,
and the German “invaders," who goose-stepped
on to the Red Square in long field-grey over-
coats, were, not unexpectedly, routed by the
inhabitants of White Russia, who were simply
but suitably clad in blue silk pants.
That’s what the Mighty Soviet War Machine
amounted to. Blue silk pants in Moscow—and
in Australia “BOYCOTT THE NATIONAL
REGISTER!”


and experienced some of the miseries of a war in which
I lost two brothers and many dear friends, I hope I
may be pardoned both for advocating comprehensive
measures of conciliation, even if on a superficial view
they involve retreat from some untenable positions,
and war to the utmost limit if they are rejected.
The arguments of those who oppose any move
towards a settlement are overshadowed by the moun-
tainous mass of things as they are. If the mass is set
in motion a landslide must follow which would crush
the combatants on both sides. Encirclement, even if
it were effective, is not a policy: it is merely a
manoeuvre which may, or may not, be effective in sup-
porting a settled policy.
Such a policy must take into account many other
factors than Germany’s aims and present attitude, with
which alone I am here concerned. This in turn in-
volves three main problems:
They are (a) the Jewish problem, the ramifications
and repercussions of which taint the atmosphere neces-
sary for negotiation and concession.
( b ) Lebensraum, Germany’s need of a privileged
export-area comparable to those of the British and
French, Dutch and Belgian Empires or those of Japan,
the U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A. Without it they claim no
great manufacturing country can survive. Until Ger-
many gets it she is bound to be a disturbing factor.
This Lebensraum is already, and must continue to be,
in Eastern Europe.
(c) The inferiority complex, aggravated by the
Treaty of Versailles. This makes of the return of
some of her colonies a test, in German eyes, of Ger-
many’s equality of status among Great Powers.
Germany’s responsibility for each of these prob-
lems is very heavy, but it is not in every case hers
exclusively. Whether it is great or small, however,
these problems must be faced, remembering that the
consequence of failure to solve problems peacefully is
war. Once hostilities begin, the question of responsi-
bility interests no one but historians.
Britain and France say to Germany: “Prove by
deeds that we can trust you: then only can we nego-
tiate.” Germany and Italy reply, in effect, “Prove
by deeds that you will make room in the world for
us, newcomers with growing strength. You have both
reached a point of territorial expansion greater by far
than your needs, and beyond your strength to hold.
We obtained no redress when weak ; we will not risk
a conference unless we know in advance that we shall
get something by argument that you refuse to force.
We have less to lose in a conflict than you have.”
In a sane world, Germany should certainly take
the first step, but her leaders lack the courage to do
so: the inhibition is psychological: it is a sorry con-
fession for a nation, and for men who boast that their
system of government enables them to take the initia-
tive regardless of public opinion, but it exists.
Are we then to wait on events ; to arm until some
incident plunges peoples, pathetically eager for peace,
into war? Can nothing more constructive be done
than to show our rivals that we are more resolute,
better equipped, financially stronger, and more likely
to stand a long holocaust than they? We must not
allow the bad manners and threats of the plaintiff to
blind us, as judges in our own cause, to the element of
justice in his claims.
I suggest that the Government should publish a
formal Declaration of Policy, announcing that if Ger-
many and Italy will cease to rely solely on force,
which we will meet by the same methods, we are
prepared:
(a) In collaboration with Germany and other
Powers to initiate and sponsor a scheme for Jewish
settlement on a large scale, beginning in British
Guiana. (Even Dr. Weizmann does not claim that
Palestine can take over 100,000 more Jews.)
( b ) To recognise Germany’s and Italy’s special
economic position in the Danube Valley (more es-
pecially in Rumania, Hungary and Slovakia) and to
forego most-favored-nation or other treaty-rights in
this area, provided only that resultant advantages or
barter-agreements are not used against the indepen-
dence of the countries concerned. Germany and Italy
to recognise our vital need for and therefore our right
to unrestricted free passage through the Mediterranean,
and our consequential vital concern in the indepen-
dence of all countries south of the Danube.
(c) To offer as a solution of the colonial prob-
lem progressive internationalisation of the African
colonies.
Such an unequivocal statement, particularly if the
ground be prepared in advance, could not be rejected,
as was President Roosevelt’s call to a World Con-
ference, offering no concrete basis for negotiation. It
would prove that we were ready to act on our sense
of justice.
The first reaction might be unfavorable: that is
perhaps inevitable in the present tension, but if per-
sistently pressed upon Herr Hitler and Germany’s
leading statesmen, as a way out of the impasse into
which they have led the world, I believe that it will
gain acceptance.
Italy, too, has her claims, but they are mainly
against France and are not incapable of adjustment.
Party Politics and Foreign Affairs.
[Some history that has conveniently been forgotten,
and some sane thinking on the crusading fervor of the
British Labor and Liberal parties, condensed from an
article in London “Sunday Times” by J. A. Spender.]
How is it that, while the country is as unanimous
as it ever has been on all immediate steps in foreign
affairs, an apparently incurable quarrel continues
between the Government and the Oppositions? The
autumn campaigns projected by Liberal and Labor,
so far as can be judged from advance notices, are
largely plans for continuing the attack on the Govern-
ment and the Prime Minister.
The present generation hardly realises the breach
with the old tradition of party politics in regard to
foreign affairs which this state of things implies.
In 1896, shortly after I had become editor of the
“Westminster Gazette,” LoiW Rosebery, then leader
of the Liberal party, said he had one piece of advice
to give me, which was that an Opposition paper should
never press a Government to a warlike course which
it was reluctant to take. It might go all lengths in
protesting against what it thought would be an up-
righteous war, as Mr. Gladstone had done in his Mid-
lothian campaigns. But it should never reverse that
process and urge war on a Government which seemed
to be too pacific. Only a Government could know
whether the state of its armaments and the support it
could command from other countries would justify it
in going to war. The responsibility must remain
with the Government and the Government alone.
I have been told in after years that this is an im-
possibly virtuous attitude for an Opposition. It is
the business of an Opposition to oppose, and if it
keeps the gloves on in this forbearing and gentlemanly
manner it will get nowhere. If a Government has ex-
posed itself to attack by flinching or seeming to flinch
before a foreign Government, an Opposition should
make the most of the occasion and leave the Govern-
ment to look after itself.
I can recall many minor occasions on which both
Liberal and Conservative Oppositions made the most
of such opportunities, but on all the more serious
occasions Lord Rosebery’s rule prevailed. The
Liberal party in those days had its Imperialist and its
“little-Englander” groups. The latter went all lengths
in opposing the South African War, buf neither made
any protest against what many members of his own
party thought to be the too prudent foreign policy of
Lord Salisbury. In those years the idea of a con-
tinuity in foreign policy had a strong hold on both
parties. The Liberals consented to the Japanese alli-
ance and the Entente with France inaugurated by a
Conservative Government; the Conservatives agreed
to the Russian Entente and the general conduct of
foreign affairs by Grey and the Liberal Government.
This is by no means to say that there were not
abundant opportunities of making trouble if the
Opposition had desired to do so. Anti-German feel-
ing was running strongly, and the numerous efforts
made by the Liberal Government to come to terms
with Germany would have lent themselves formidably
to the cry of “appeasement” if it had been raised in
those days.
What would some of the modern critics of Gov-
ernment have said about the large concessions in the
Congo which wound up the Agadir crisis? What
about Grey’s unsleeping efforts to settle colonial ques-
tions with Germany? What, above all, about the in-
evitable but very uncomfortable necessity in which he
found himself of withdrawing in face of German and
Austrian threats after his protest against the annexa-
tion of Bosnia-Herzegovipa?
The history of that matter is worth examining, if
only for its rather uncanny resemblance to certain
recent events. Grey had protested against the annexa-
tion as a lawless unilateral violation of the Treaty of
Berlin, and everyone had said that his protest was
wise and just. But after five months of prolonged
crisis, it was discovered that he had no support in
Europe. Russia, still staggering under her defeat in
the Far East, was unable, and France was unwilling,
to fight; and Grey in the end had to accept the ac-
complished fact of the annexation.
It would have needed no ingenuity to denounce
this as a “betrayal” both of Russia and of the Serb
populations of Bosnia-Herzegovina, but responsible
men on both sides were agreed that he could do
nothing else, and refrained from argument.
In those days Opposition leaders, though out of
office, were very near to office. They knew from
actual and recent experience what were the limits of
British power and measured accurately the difficulty
of fighting a campaign in Eastern Europe without
powerful allies. They knew from their own experi-
ence that Great Britain could not expect to have her
own way everywhere, that, like other nations, she
would suffer diplomatic reverses as well as score suc-
cesses, and that, if every exercise of prudence in this
dangerous and intricate game were to be branded as
cowardice, the conduct of foreign affairs would
become impossible.
Why is it that so many modern critics of Gov-
ernment seem to be without this sense of the limits of
power and the need of discretion? May it not be
partly because so few have had actual experience of
the work of Government? Since Ramsay MacDonald,
Henderson and Snowden left the Labor party or
passed from the scene, the detachment of Labor from
this experience has been almost complete ; and now
that most of the distinguished Liberal seniors are in
“another place,” the Opposition Liberals in the House
of Commons are in very much the same condition.
The long exclusion from office of the two Oppo-
sitions has become a serious weakness in Parliamen-
tary government. It deprives Opposition leaders of the
sense that they are participating in Government and
tempts them to adopt the Ishmaelite tactics of perma-
nent minorities. The mischief becomes worse when
there are two Oppositions competing with, and even
outbidding, one another in their attacks on the Gov-
ernment. On the other hand, a Government which
has been long in power tends to regard the entire
sphere of administration as its prerogative and to
guard it jealously against incursions. These condi-
tions are not favorable to the sober criticism which
foreign affairs demand.
Ought there not to be a pool of knowledge on
the state of armaments, the attitude and capacity of
Governments with which we are in alliance, the ground
which is favorable and that which is unfavorable for
action?
Such knowledge would rule out the habit of hold-
ing the British Government and the British Prime
Minister alone responsible for everything that goes
wrong in the world, and thus putting Ministers in a
position in which they must either submit to this
charge or make explanations which are extremely un-
desirable. It would also help both parties to realise
that there are occasions when delaying tactics are a
necessary part of the conduct of foreign affairs which
ought not to be branded as disgraceful, and would not
be so branded except for the mistaken and dangerous
idea that we are under a moral duty to perform single-
handed the duties imposed on all the signatories of
covenants, treaties and pacts.
From Nazi Newspapers.
[Some samples of the inflammatory matter that has
appeared in Nazi newspapers, extracted from Beware
of the English (Hamish Hamilton), a compilation by
W. G. Knop.]
One of the main arguments advanced by the
British Opposition in its criticism of Chamberlain’s
policy was: “All this would not have happened, Ger-
many would not have gained her point so decisively,
if we had been stronger.” .... Conversely it was a
recognition of the fact that the German Government
won such a signal and uncompromising victory only
because behind it stood the people’s army, a weapon
ready to strike and in fdar of none. — “W estdeutscher
Beobachter,” October 23.
We have naturally no right to demand that other
nations alter their Constitutions. .1 have only the duty,
as leader of the Germans, to take account of these
Constitutions and the possibilities to which they give
rise. A few days ago the Deputy-leader of the Oppo-
sition in the House of Commons declared: “I desire
that Germany and Italy shall be destroyed.” [Mr.
Greenwood said, “I should like to see the destruction
of the dictatorships in Europe.”] Naturally I cannot
prevent the democratic game from bringing this man
into the Government in perhaps two years’ time, but
I can give him this assurance: 1 will prevent him
from destroying Germany.— Hitler at Weimar,
November 7.
Not long ago the question of civil aircraft 'was
being debated in the House of Commons. One parti-
cular new aeroplane was declared especially service-
able. Then an Opposition member shouted: “Let us
hope this aeroplane is also capable of carrying bombs
to Berlin!” We understand what that means! Per-
haps you will tell me: “But that was only a member
of the Opposition.” And I will retort that according
to the Constitution of the democracies the Opposition
of to-day can become the Government of to-morrow!
In fact, that is what usually happens.
And if a British Opposition leader declares: “We
do not wish to destroy the German people, only the
regime,” it amounts to exactly the same thing, since
no one can destroy the regime without destroying the
German people! If somebody declares that he wishes
to free the German people from the regime, I say
to him: “You are not qualified to speak for the Ger-
man people! But if there is a man qualified to speak
for the German people, then, my honorable British
member of Parliament, I am that man.” — Hitler at
Munich, November 10.
The English press has showered a hail of hostile
and schoolmasterish criticism on German Jewish
decrees, as well as on the measures we took for a real
racial isolation as a reply to the cowardly murder in
Paris. Jewry itself has taken the field! The relation,
or rather the bond, between the Empire and Jewry,
of which we are constantly reminded, becomes
apparent when we remember that it was a son of the
Madame’s Masterpiece.
“As regards the Moscow talks,” wrote
Madame Tabouis in London “Sunday Dispatch”
on August 13,
Hiller and Mussolini know that Stalin, Molo-
tov and Voroshilov are going to propose a text
for a political and military treaty.
The lady was not, as it might appear, talking
about Hitler's deal with Stalin; she was giving
exclusive information on the agreement the
Red Government was about to conclude with
France and Britain, Stalin's “personal attitude”
being that the negotiations should not be pro-
longed indefinitely. She offered the following
interesting details:—
The Russian plan comprises seven points:
1. The three partners ( Britain, France and
Russia) agree to go to war automatically if one
of them finds itself in conflict with the Axis.
2. The Democracies will maintain an attitude
of neutrality in case of a Russo-Japanese con-
flict, on condition that the neutrality of the Axis
is assured, and that it does not start a second
“Spanish war” in the Far East.
3. If the Axis does not remain neutral in case
of a Russo-Japanese conflict, the Democracies
will go to war immediately on the side of the
Soviets.
4. The plenipotentiaries of the three contracting
Powers are to draw up a precise plan of action,
envisaging all war possibilities.
5. The three contracting Powers must act with
complete frankness in their dealings with each
other.
6. Turkey must be fully informed of the situa-
tion by Russia, and Poland by France, and
Rumania by Britain.
7. The military attaches of the three contract-
ing Powers are to be specially consulted in all
cases, specially concerning their respective
countries.
“The German General Staff,” Madame Two-
Blues concluded, “consider that this proposed
treaty is exactly what they expected.”


“chosen people” who stood godfather at the birth of
the Empire—Disraeli.
It would, of course, be untrue to say that the
creation of the British Empire at the end of the last
century was the individual achievement of this Eng-
lish Prime Minister and statesman of Jewish descent.
It was created by Anglo-Saxon seamen, merchants,
planters and soldiers. But Disraeli was the champion
of conservative colonial policy, of British Imperialism,
and also of all those terrible and bloody methods
which England has continued to employ ever since as
part of her colonial policy, and which we are wit-
nessing to-day in Palestine in the form of “civilising
bomb attacks” launched on Arab settlements. — “West-
falische Landeszeitung,” November 22.
The English press, with typically puritanical
hypocrisy, remains silent on the subject of events in
the Holy Land. No words are wasted over the shoot-
ing of 20 Arabs in a single day and the passing of
death sentences on half a dozen more. But if in Ger-
many some Jewish undesirable is placed in a concen-
tration camp, then everyone is dutifully indignant. In
Palestine whole blocks of houses may be blown sky-
high and entire villages reduced to ruins, but it is con-
sidered far more terrible if a synagogue gets burnt and
a few Jewish window-panes broken in Germany. In
Akko an 82-year-old Arab,sheik was hanged with-
out mercy. And then they weep if a Jew gets his ears
boxed.
So silence, please, you democratic hypocrites.
Otherwise we shall be obliged to produce one example
after another. Turn your attention to your own door-
step, you paragons of virtue and guardians of the
world’s morals, and see that too much filth and refuse
does not collect there. — “Der Alemanne,” November 12.
Even the beginning of my short visit to London
was not exactly pleasant. After all, I had flown quite
a long way and had looked forward with pleasurable
expectancy to my first visit to “Merrie Old England.”
And then to receive this quite unexpected welcome!
I asked in German the first person I met, who looked
outwardly quite friendly enough, the best way from
the aerodrome to the town. He stared at me,
screwed up his face, made a wry mouth, spat at my
feet and instead of condescending to answer favored
me with the verdict, “Oh, a German.” That was the
end of my first conversation with an Englishman and
my curious welcome was over. —“ Danziger Vor-
posten,” December 19.
Some of the atrocities committed by the English
in Palestine are quite unbelievable. The activities of
the English troops are not limited to fighting against
armed' irregular forces, but consist mainly in the
savage persecutions of entirely peaceful civil popu-
lations. During an attack on the Arab village of
Attil five people were deliberately chosen and tor-
tured. They were beaten over the head. Then their
eyes were put out. After they had been mutilated in
this ghastly way they were finally given the coup de
grace. Robbery and plunder are also the order of the
day among the English in Palestine. Searches in
widely-different districts have all been marked by
robbery and rapine. In Hebron, before whole houses
were burnt down, shops were thoroughly plundered,
while in Attil money and valuables were seized from
the Arabs. A favorite means of coercing the inhabi-
tants of Palestine is the whip which almost every Eng-
lishman carries about with him. — “Westfalische Landes-
zeitung,” “Hakenkreuzbanner,” etc., December 23.
Certain English know-all, whalebone-collared
aunts would be better employed in turning their
lorgnettes on the far from idyllic conditions in India
than in prophesying that the lack of whipped cream
in Germany must lead to a horrible famine. — “West-
deutscher Beobachter,” February 27, 1939.
There is in London a newspaper which is pre-
eminently characteristic of the English mentality. This
journal is called the “Times.” For the most part it
deports itself in a sedate and gentlemanly fashion and
only under compulsion, so to speak, descends to con-
tumely and vituperation. It is extremely moral and
takes upon itself as its divinely ordained task the
doling out of political judgments and injunctions to
the whole world. As the supreme judicial authority it
presumes to interfere in everything that goes on under
the sun, and so is the incarnation of the typical British
conception of the divine order of the world. The
extraordinary thing is that it sometimes really looks as
if the English actually believed what they say.
Their press misrepresents things in so barefaced
and insolent a way that one’s breath is literally taken
away. And even when the press is given the lie, it
remains so beautifully obstinate in its misrepresenta-
tion that the humble layman who does not understand
that press’s mentality might well believe that it really
was the victim of its own swindle. But that is not at
all the case. That anyone could think so is only a proof
of that amazing national discipline which distinguishes
English journalism under the cloak of freedom of
opinion.—“ Volkischer Beobachter, March 23.
England’s former Foreign Secretary, Mr. Eden, in
a speech to representatives of the American press,
declared that in certain parts of Europe “the law of
the jungle” was the order of the day. From which we
assume that he was alluding to the Axis Powers.
The British Lion has grown old. He lies sated,
with greying whiskers, grasping his prey with all four
paws. He has long since forgotten the time when he
patrolled the jungle, glorying in his strength and full
of enterprise, striking down everything in his path
with a roar that struck terror into the hearts of all and
caused the powerless to beg for mercy. Yes, those
were the days....
To-day the lion has lost his fierceness from lack
of opportunity. His teeth are gradually growing loose,
while his paws —how embarrassing—show traces of
gout. Then, too, his hearing is no longer good, and a
film is spreading over his tired eyes.
He has developed typically senile habits. For
example, he must never be reminded of his youthful
days in the jungle. He has therefore shown visible dis-
pleasure when others, who were once powerless, have
joined in constantly shouting in his ear: “Don’t
forget your youth. Don’t forget the jungle!” How
would it be if Mr. Eden busied himself with this little
fable? Perhaps he would then be a little more
cautious in his choice of metaphors'.— “N. S. Kurier,”
March 29.
Japan in War-time.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post" article
by Hallett Abend.)
There are 193 military hospitals in Japan, aver-
aging a little more than 300 beds each, and all these
beds are filled with war-wounded men from China.
But the casual visitor to Japan would scarcely guess
that the country is engaged in a long-drawn war.
Passport officials and gendarmes are a little more
obtrusive than usual. Gasoline is strictly rationed to
12 gallons a month per car —not because of any dif-
ficulty in obtaining this fuel but because of the very
great difficulty of finding foreign exchange to pay
for it. Whisky is 24 yen a bottle, and higher for the
more choice grades. Foreign cigars, cigarettes and
pipe tobaccos are almost unobtainable, even at pro-
hibitive prices.
There is a strict ban on gaiety. Dance halls are
closed, and even private dances or charity balls are
forbidden. Gaiety is considered out of place in war-
time. Tokio, a city of 7,000,000 people, is dead by
ten o’clock at night.
The contrast with Shanghai is a shock. In Shang-
hai, particularly in the Little Tokio section north of
Soochow Creek, where about 42,000 Japanese civilians
now reside, money flows like water. On both sides of
North Szechuen-road and on many other streets, there
are Japanese cafes and cabarets and bars beyond count-
ing. In Shanghai, fashionably-clad Japanese dance
partners are busy from seven o’clock in the evening
until the curfew hour at one in th"e morning.
But in Tokio and in all other Japanese cities,
there is a contrasting sobriety. Japan is not bankrupt,
nor likely to become so at any early date. Taxes are
high and the stores lack many formerly popular
foreign commodities. The nation’s belt is being
steadily and relentlessly tightened, but so far a fic-
titious war-time prosperity prevails.
The war’s drain upon the nation’s man-power is
undeniably making itself felt. The fact that 1,000,000
Japanese soldiers are being maintained upon the
Asiatic mainland, and that casualties have been heavy,
is bound to show in a nation of fewer than 70,000,000
people. Women outnumber the men on the streets
nearly two to one —and most of the men are middle-
aged or old.
There is a labor shortage. Koreans are being im-
ported to work in the coalmines. Money wages are
sky-high. A workman in an automobile plant makes
as much as a Cabinet Minister.
That the nation is in dire straits for money and
foreign exchange is shown by the fact that Japan
which has always pleaded the necessity for expansion
because her rocky islands could not support her popu-
lation —is actually exporting foodstuffs. There are
only about 170,000 dairy and beef cattle in all of
Japan, but June saw the beginning of a State-inspired
plan to export butter and cheese. Eggs are being ex-
ported too, and have practically vanished from the
national dietary.
One of the most amazing things is the widespread
ignorance of conditions in China, of the real issues
between Japan and the other Powers, and of real con-
ditions in Europe.
Big Business in Japan knows the conditions in
China, and is not cheered by - indecisive victories, or
by the failure to bring a return of law and order to the
“occupied areas.” Business leaders are beginning to
voice discontent with the Government.
Japanese civilians have flocked to China by the
tens of thousands since the outbreak of hostilities. In
Tientsin, where there were formerly about 10,000
Japanese civilians, the number has now passed the
45,000 mark ; in Shanghai the increase has been from
30,000 to 42,000 ; in Canton there are upward of 4000
Japanese, an increase of 3600.
Meanwhile the fact that peasants are going from
the farms to the munitions factories in ever-increasing
numbers has created a dangerous labor shortage. The
authorities are organising labor corps of 50 men each,
and are sending them from village to village. The
co-operation of women in heavy farm work is being
sought, and higher-grade primary-school children and
students of secondary schools are to be pressed into
service. .
Owing to the control of iron, there is a shortage
of agricultural implements, while the shortage of nails
and wire has checked the making of boxes for fruit
packing. The gasoline shortage is hindering the dis-
tribution of fertilisers. Motors are idle because of the
lack of heavy oil. Drugs can no longer be obtained
for the extermination of insect pests.
In Tokio, 25,000 boy graduates from the primary
schools are being immediately drafted for work in
munition plants. An additional 10,000 similar gradu-
ates are being taken to Tokio from near-by country
districts. These measures all combine to make the
shortage of farm labor acute, and wages for farm
laborers are now higher than at any time in the last. 5
years. In some quarters there is discussion of bringing
Chinese coolies by the thousand to work in Japans
ricefields.
Refugee Village.
(Condensed from an article by Dudley Barker in
London “Evening Standard. )
There have been three great camps at Rich-
borough on the coastal flats of Kent. The Roman
army under Claudius built the first. The second arose
during the last war, when 25,000 Englishmen campe
there in secrecy, building barges and shipping stores
to the armies in France.
The third great camp has been built to shelter
refugees from Germany, Austria and Czechoslova ia.
England has offered them this temporary san^L ary -, U
is organised with the consent of the Home Ofp Y
a Jewish committee in London, and the cost of a ou
£BO,OOO a year is met by the Jews themselves.
There are now 2500 in the camp, and there will
soon be 3000.
There are few trades or professions not repre-
sented among them. To build a concrete load t ey
found one road engineer and a score of doctors,
artists, shopkeepers and clerks to make up his gang.
There was a professional gardener to lay out gardens
on each side of the road ; he recruited a dentist, an
orthopaedic surgeon and a shopkeeper to construct
them.
A young shoe-buyer has organised the storeroom.
A cobbler has trained another group to repair boots.
A builder is supervising structural alterations in the
huts with lawyers, merchants, a printer and an accoun-
tant as bricklayers. The camp receives and sends some
4000 letters a day, so an 18-year-old boy set up a
post office.
. One hut has been turned into a cinema. Another
is a concert-hall, where the orchestra is led by former
members of the Vienna Philharmonic. Several former
professors have started, in the evenings, a camp uni-
versity. Every day, too, each man has an English
lesson. Out of working hours the men live freely, and,
subject to a roll-call at night, wander into the neigh-
boring town.
Any small moneys which the men receive from
outside are paid into a camp bank for the good of
all, but each man gets 6d. pocket money and a 2id.
stamp each week. A few saved their sixpences care-
fully and started the only private enterprise in the
camp, a chicken farm.
It began with a f<?w chickens in a coop of scrap
wood, but by selling its produce within the camp it
prospered, and now it contains a good number of
chickens, some ducks and a white goat. Its owners
stand round it contentedly, happy to regard their own
property.
Reckless Pedestrians.
(Condensed from the “Reader’s Digest” and originally
published in the Washington “Post.”)
Pedestrians constituted 40 p.c. of all last year’s
traffic casualties in the U.S.A.; in large cities nearly
three-fourths of all traffic fatalities were pedestrians.
Traffic surveys show that, far from being wholly
innocent victims of the madcap motorist, pedestrians
are often to blame for their own death or injury.
It isn’t —as most people think —the heedless child
dashing into the street who is the commonest
casualty. School-children have learned safety-first,
and now account for only one-tenth of all pedestrian
deaths.
It’s the adult, who ought to know better, who
gets himself killed. About two-thirds of the fatalities
are middle-aged or over.
Aroused by such facts, 65 American cities have
passed laws compelling pedestrians to observe traffic
signals, while 38 have prohibited jaywalking and told
pedestrians otherwise to conduct themselves becom-
ingly. In Milwaukee, Dallas, Cleveland, Providence-
and Kansas City, legislation was followed up with
intensive safety programmes. As a result, pedestrian
accidents were reduced in these five cities by an aver-
age of 45 p.c. in a year’s time.
The campaign methods varied. In Denver 25
pedestrians were arrested and convicted. All came
to court nursing an injury, and the two who were hurt
the most drew the stiffest fines —$50. The city ex-
pected a blast of public protest, but none materialised,
and when pedestrian accidents dropped 25 p.c. in five
months Denver began to regard the scheme as a
sound means of pedestrian protection.
In Cleveland, police officers have orders to lock
up all drunks found wandering alone in the streets —
on the theory that an intoxicated pedestrian is an
“accident about to happen.” The measure, regarded
as simply protective arrest, was taken after the coroner
discovered 45 p.c. of those killed were intoxicated.
Studies in several cities show that three out of
four pedestrians ignore traffic signals entirely, while
98 p.c. of the motorists obey them to the letter.
More than seven times as many are killed walking
on the wrong side as on the other side. Because of
higher speeds, a country accident is seven times as
likely to be fatal as in the city.
One significant sidelight on the pedestrian prob-
lem is furnished by the study of 1000 pedestrian fatali-
ties in Connecticut and of 600 in the District of
Columbia. Respectively 95 p.c. and 89 p.c. of those
killed had never been licensed to drive, though old
enough to be eligible. In other words, while the
pedestrian’s fault may sometimes be negligence, it is
frequently plain ignorance of vehicle speeds and be-
havior and of driver reactions.
Hence, despite all that traffic engineers are doing
to make the pedestrian’s life safer, the biggest part of
the job is up to the pedestrian himself.


SPORTING
NOTIONS
SPORUSO
GIVES YOUR HAIR
A LOVELINESS THAT DAZZLES!
Under the Whip
Gold Rod is out of the Epsom. On
his showing at Warwick Farm, the big
chestnut couldn’t have won it with 8.10,
and he had 9.10. His owner, A.J.C.
committeeman Watt, still has Mildura
engaged, and his trainer, Price, is also
represented by Adios. The market sug-
gests that the stable prefers Adios, but
that horse has not shown himself a better
miler than Mildura, and, with 8.4, he
has a pound more.
* * * *
Two 100-to-3 chances came home at
Kensington on Wednesday, and when that
sort of thing happens on a Sydney Wed-
nesday meeting it means two “skinners”
for the Ring. Asa rule, prices at these
Wednesday meetings are appalling. There
were ten races at Kensington, and in
nine the odds offered about favorites were
9 to 4 on, 5 to 4 on, evens (twice), 5 to 4
(twice), 6 to 4, 7 to 4 and 5 to 2. Bris-
bane bookmakers must envy the facility
with which their Sydney brotherhood can
rake in the root of all evil with so little
risk.
One of the 33-to-l pops was Flaring,
a four-year-old gelding by Veilmond-
Sunbeams ; and thp 9-to-4-on favorite,
Royal Ensign, ran second. The race was
a division of the Flying Welter, run over
the absurd distance of 5j furlongs, which,
for “three-year-olds and upwards,” was
supposed to have., been outlawed long
ago. The other rank outsider was Puffed
Wheat in the Novice Handicap ; The
Frenchman (evens) failed to get a place.
Another successful outsider was Pat-a-
Cake, an old gelding by Salmagundi-
Yule Cake (12 to 1), in a division of the
Bunnerong Mile ; Litigation (5 to 4 on)
was third.
Taroo (Scarlet Square-Anina) keeps on
winning. Three to one for another division
of the Flying Welter, this trustworthy
animal got the best of a finish so close
that nobody would have been greatly sur-
prised had the judge declared a triple
dead-heat. As it was, he decided that
Taroo had beaten Salamyne by half a
head, with the same margin between
Salamyne and Search.
* * 4= *
Already it is evident that there are
some good three-year-olds about this
season. High Caste is reckoned the best
of them, but a danger to the A.J.C.
Derby favorite loomed up in the Canter-
bury Stakes at the course of that name
on Saturday.
The said danger is a brown colt, Beau
Vite, by Beau Pere-Dominant, trained
by T. R. George for R.'Stewart. Owner,
trainer and horse are from Maoriland ;
but the jockey, Billy Cook, is an Aus-
tralian.
The Canterbury Stakes was a six-
furlong race, “w.f.a. with allowances.”
There were six starters and Brazandt was
favorite, as he deserved to be after his
fine race in the Campbelltown Handicap
at Warwick Farm ; but Gold Rod, look-
ing better than at the Farm, challenged
him for that position (Brazandt was 6 to
4, Gold Rod 7 to 4). There was a bit of
money for Beau Vite at fives. Early
Bird, Royal Prince and Mosaic were
neglected ; and the Sydney Cup winner
finished a bad last.
For half a mile Brazandt looked the
winner. He came into the straight with
a two lengths’ lead of Gold Rod, Royal
Prince and Beau Vite cutting even for
third. The three-year-old had dwelt at
the barrier a bit. He came so fast in
the straight that at the end of the jour-
ney he was a length to the good of Gold
Rod, who had cut down Brazandt. That
horse finished four lengths behind Beau
Vite, and as Canterbury is Brazandt’s
favorite course the three-year-old’s per-
formance was exceptionally good,
especially as he ran the six in 1.12 J.
Cook was on another winner in the
Canterbury Guineas —Bonny Loch, 4 to 1.
Dashing Cavalier was favorite at 9 to 4,
and in a very restricted market Marengo
was 3 to 1 and Tel Asur 7to 2.
For a while Tel Asur figured as Caul-
field Cup favorite. At Canterbury, mak-
ing the running, he was done with at the
mile. When he faded Marengo and Dash-
ing Cavalier were battling it out, but
Bonny Loch beat them both for stamina,
and he won by a head from Marengo, who
was a neck in front of Dashing Cavalier.
Bonny Loch established a race record by
running the distance, nine furlongs, in
1.53. Still, Cook says he was more im-
pressed with Beau Vite’s performance.
Another three-year-old who brought
himself into notice was Tobasco (El
Cacique-Deferential), who is owned by the
wife of Jimmy Bancks, the caricaturist.
Tobasco’s race was the Flying Handicap,
and he was an outsider—l 2to 1. Tolerant
(5 to 2) led nearly all the way, but was
passed by Tobasco a few strides from
home and beaten by half a neck. As-
tounding was third.
Bianconi (5 to 1) beat a poor lot in
the September Handicap, and a plunge
on the Irish horse Vergure in a division
of the Progressive Stakes was landed. But
the Ring was exceedingly careful, “I’ll
take 6 to 4” being its often subdued cry,
Shaw, the ex-bookmaker, cleaned up on
Rathlin (3 to 1) in the Asquith Handicap
—he owns the Glenariff-Tibbie gelding,
with ex-trainer Clune as a partner.
* ** *
Ridden without a whip, Pure Gold,
brother to Hall Mark, scored comfort-
ably in the second division of the
Warriston Handicap at Caulfield on
Saturday and, as a consequence, firmed
in the Caulfield Cup market. Pure Gold
suffered defeat at Moonee Valley on
August 19 through making a dive for
the rails when Harold Badger flourished
the whip. Apprentice J. Gilmore, who
will be the colt’s Cup pilot, obtains
adequate results merely with hands and
heels.
But Gilmore almost met with disaster
on Saturday. From No. 1 berth Pure Gold
jumped away too eagerly, Gilmore tried
to slow him down at the five furlongs
post, but the chestnut threw his head up,
and, in a momentary loss of direction,
collided with the running rail. Gilmore’s
left foot was dislodged from the stirrup.
Pure Gold dropped back several horses,
but reasserted himself and pulled his
even-money backers through with a good
deal in hand.
Jack Holt will have Pure Gold cherry
ripe by Caulfield Cup day, but so far
the chestnut does not bear comparison
with his illustrious brother. Owner C. B.
Kellow stated later in the afternoon, ‘ I
don’t think we will be going to Sydney.”
James Scobie was not hopeful regard-
ing Muscari in the second division of
the Doona Trial. The Madagascar colt
showed up for a while, but faded into
fourth place. Scobie is setting Lusson for
the S.A.J.C. Derby, but fears Dream-
some, whom he tips to win the V.R.C.
Oaks.
Oaks rivals of Dreamsome may in-
clude Triode (Marconigram-Kaftan),
who started at 25 to 1 in the first division
of the Doona Trial and ran Historian (3
to 1) to half a length. Her trainer, Joe
Mulcahy, didn’t give Triode a donkey’s
chance from No. 17 berth; yet she
quickly hit the front and led into the
straight. Triode belongs to H. N. (“Bert”)
Leonard, who won the Grand National
of 1931 with Cockcrow, also trained by
Mulcahy. Her dam won a Debutante
Stakes and is out of Mufti, who ran
third in King Ingoda’s Melbourne Cup.
“Darcy” Eccles, of The Trump fame,
had a substantial win over Historian, who
is by Beau Fils (sire of Waltzing Lily)
and traces back to Instep. Another suc-
cessful stable plunge was ' that over
Minority in the second division of the
Doona Trial.
Lou Robertson and his followers sup-
ported Minority down to 9 to 4. Over-
coming difficulties, Minority reached the
judge half a length in advance of Grand
Tour, who was last of a strung-out field
six furlongs from home. M.L.-bred,
Grand Tour is a brother to Flood Tide.
Glenfino finished a very creditable
second to Skirl in the second division of
the Warriston Handicap, in which Cape
Sable, a stablemate of Historian, failed
badly. However, at the close of the after-
noon it was announced that Glenfino
would not take on his A.J.C. Derby
engagement.
For a mere exercise gallop in the
Memsie Stakes another easy £7OO was
earned by Ajax. El Golea (second) sac-
rificed two or three lengths at the start,
but showed improvement. Elanage
knocked up after being on terms with El
Golea near the straight entrance.
El wood Fisher saddled up Pibroch and
Carpentier for the Heatherlie Handicap.
They finished first and second respec-
tively, a neck dividing. Carpentier made
his run just too late. But Rivette (9 to 4,
favorite) would have beaten both with
an ounce of luck. She met with several
disappointments.
Eric Connolly supported the former
W.A. galloper Tetreen in the Whittier
Handicap ; 7 to 2 was the closing quote,
after sixes had been called. Short of a
run in public, Tetreen lost to Hilton (6
to 1) by a neck, but losses on Tetreen
should be recoverable in the near future.
Three years ago a Melbourne business-
man won a lot of money—it ran into
thousands —over Wotan in the Cup. He
had plunged on the strength of a dream.
However, the outlay wasn’t very con-
siderable, Wotan being at 100 to 1.
Recently this venturesome individual
made a spectacular wager that brought
him into the limelight again. For a
relatively trifling sum he supported
Lochlee and Ruckman for £IOO,OOO in
the two-Cups double. These horses are
stablemates, being trained at Mentone
by Wolters.
One of the part-owners of Lochlee
rang up the backer to inquire whether
there had been any dream in the back-
ground on this occasion. He received a
negative reply, and was further informed
that a share could be had in the double
if desired. But curiosity had been satis-
fied and the conversation ended.
* * * *
Mornington (Vic.) is installing a Julius
tote. The mechanism is portable and
will be requisitioned later on for Paken-
ham meetings. Other country clubs may
fall into line. Bookmakers are becoming
a vanishing race in Victoria.
* * * *
Regular Bachelor and Valiant Chief,
who finished first and second respectively
in the Newmarket Handicap of 1936,
have both gone to the stud. Regular
Bachelor is standing at Heidelberg, quite
close to Melbourne. His rival will do
duty in the Wangaratta district.
Archie Crofts, the chain-store pro-
prietor who owns Valiant Chief, has
leased him for three years to a member
of the Hoysted family. F. W. Hoysted
won several rich stakes for Crofts with
the Heroic stallion. At Werribee on
Wednesday last Crofts proudly exhibited
a photograph of Valiant Chief in stallion
condition.
* * * *
Steve Murphy was on the wave of suc-
cess in 1936 when he landed the rich
Cantala Stakes with Gay Lover after that
horse had lost the Epsom to Capris on
a protest. Murphy had a lean time last
season, but he js beginning to break
through the ice again.
At Werribee on Wednesday last
Murphy ran second in a division of the
Trial Handicap with King Arthur, won
the August Handicap with Good Boy
and finished third in the Welter Handi-
cap with Keeping Watch, who will be
remembered as having lost his rider in
a Randwick hurdle race for which he
was heavily backed.
Good Boy originally was trained by
Murphy for Percy Miller, the breeder,
but now carries Steve’s own colors. He
is by Constant Son from Flimsy, the
dam of Olympian, a Perth Derby winner.
Favorite at threes, it cost Good Boy little
real effort to score at Werribee.
Two races at Werribee resulted in a
dead-heat for first place. The judge could
not separate Aladdin’s Lamp and Bur-
bang in the second division of the Trial
Handicap, while Cortina and the rank
outsider Robeson finished on terms in the
Encourage Handicap.
Cortina (Limond-Curtain) is trained
by H. Wolters for G. J. Barton, the M.L.
sportsman, and started at 7 to 4. Carry-
ing 9st., and coming from third-last at
the half-mile, he did well to divide the
spoils. Harold Badger was on top.
* * * *
Whatever the effect on public finance,
the 40-hour week, with no reduction of
wages, and stacks of Public Works jobs
have given a fillip to racing in Maoriland.
Attendances have increased so much that
clubs sold just on £8,000,000 worth of
tote tickets last season. But, with one
eye on the patronage it has been the
means of bringing them and the other
on its own depleted exchequer, the Gov-
ernment is not letting them have rebate
on tote tax this year. The rebate is
usually 1 p.c. on gross takings, though
it was cut to i p.c. for three years,
1933-36.
“King’s Pawn”: A World’s Chess Con-
gress is now raging in the Argentine, and
the Government of that country is pay-
ing all exes., including fares and living
expenses of the competitors from far
lands, totalling about £30,000. Such a
happening would be unthinkable in Aus-
tralia. but the Argentine evidently thinks
it will get its money back from chess-
enthusiast tourists. Incidentally, a team
which was to go from Australia was un-
able to find a ship which would get its
members to the Argentine in time.
Once, when there was a vigorous local
trade with South America, boats crossing
the South Pacific could have been caught
nearly any day in any week.
o Continued on next page.)
FOR RANDWICK.
Chelmsford Stakes: Defaulter ;
next, High Caste or Feminist.
Tramway Handicap: Mildura ;
next, St. Constant.
Three- and Four-year-old Handi-
cap : Reading ; next, Geebung.
Spring Handicap: Feminist or
Red Sails ; next, Fearless.
Welter: Nebraska; next, Peri-
mond.
“PILOT" OF “THE BULLETIN”
“The Bulletin” says a regretful good-bye to the “Referee,” its
contemporary in Sydney for 53 years. It was the best sporting paper in
Australia and one of the best in the world.
It is no fault of the staff that the “Referee” has gone to press for the
last time. Early in its career it had such men as Nat Gould and A. G. Hales
writing for it. Cricket and football were ably covered for many years by
Editor J. C. Davis (“Not Out” and “The Cynic”), boxing by Corbett and
Lawless, and racing by “Pilot” (Jack Dexter).
“Pilot” will not be lost to sporting journalism. He is joining “The
Bulletin” staff, and will conduct an enlarged racing review, beginning next
week. He will also do the tips; and, year in and year out, he has been the
most successful tipster in Australia. Not that he has ever been under the
illusion that easy money can be made by punting. On this subject he has
always shared “The Bulletin’s” well-known views.
Mr. Dexter’s knowledge and character command the respect of the
Australian racing world. He will write under his own pen-name in short,
“Pilot” of the “Referee” will become “Pilot” of “The Bulletin.”
FOR MENTONE.
Tinamba Handicap: Manrico ;
next, Nightguard.
Powerscourt Handicap: Pure
Gold ; next, Pantoon.
Welter: Coronation Day; next,
Temple Coyn.


IF YOU ROLL YOUR OWN
CIGARETTES
USE THE BEST
PAPERS
YOU CAN BUY
z
WAX'
TIPPED
3 d and6
PACKET
SAVE MONEY
r its
I THRIFTY
■ TO INSTALL
w NEW
CHAMPIONS /
'°4
CHAMPION
SPARK
PLUGS
ore an aid to SAFETY
Good acceleration is a definite
aid to safety. Ability to dart
swiftly out of danger may save
your car from an accident.
Install Champion spark
plugs. They keep your car at
its peak performance. And
Champions save you money
in fuel economy. .
An Empire product—made in
Windsor, Canada
M.Q. and Rafferty
Richards Beats Stewart
In the third of their encounters hard-
fought over 12 rounds at Sydney Stadium,
Ron Richards (list. 7ilb.) left no shadow
of doubt about his ability to trounce
Ossie Stewart (list. 6|lb.). It was a
rugged, stiff-punching contest: Stewart,
his usual too-statuesque self, planted like
a piece of black marble, and nearly as
impervious to a consistent heavy batter-
ing ; Richards crouched, inching forward
all the time and leaping in with left rip
to body and right-cross aloft, carrying
the fight continually to the negro, using
his solid right uppercut close in, and tak-
ing all but four rounds most decisively.
It was hard to envisage the same two
scrappers hugging each other and getting
the crowd’s goat in Melbourne. Joe
Wallis only once put his hands out to
separate them, and that was in the
twelfth, when Stewart was worn out. The
negro was by then showing other signs
of wear. His right eye, which had
stopped a good left hook in the fourth,
was lumpy and just on closing time, and
that side of his dial bore corresponding
evidence of Ron’s busy left. Stewart did
well to get through the last three rounds
still on his feet. Ron then had the fight
in the bag, and was boxing at his top,
throwing punches from all ranges, and
driving the opposition in front of him,
Stewart solidly defending, but thoroughly
outfought.
Even so, Stewart made a better show-
ing than most American imports have
done in return engagements with the Aus-
tralian champion. With Lesnevich, Saba-
tino and others, Ron learnt all about
them in the first meeting and gave them
no hope whatever in the second. Stewart,
until he tired at the finish, was always
something of a menace. In willing rallies
in the sixth and ninth he shook Ron up
considerably, and there was nothing more
attractive in Ron’s performance than the
way he livened and fought back when
hurt. Stewart was most remarkable for
the quickness of his recovery when
nearly knocked. A heavy right to the
jaw very nearly got him in the first round.
He propped, partly dropped his hands
and nearly fell; then he was instantly
himself again. Another feature of the
negro’s display was the neatness with
which he slipped Ron’s right over his
shoulder every round —a complete course
in the art of diplomacy.
Richards, fighting fast and hitting
heavily from the start, took the first
round nicely, the second not so well, the
third again comfortably. At the end of
the fourth both showed signs of optic
damage, Ron with a mouse rising under
the left, Stewart’s right just about bunged
up. The fight was hard and continuous,
the huge crowd watching fairly quietly.
In the fifth the crowd had some use for
its lungs, Joe Wallis established a pre-
cedent in stoush—and a good one. While
the hitting was close and willing in mid-
ring, Stewart landed a low punch. It was
heavy enough for the blow on the guard
to be heard round the ringside, and,
though Richards appeared ready to carry
on, Joe waved them both back to their
corners. The round had only been in
progress for less than a minute, but it
was treated as finished; they sat in their
corners till the clock-hand had gone
round the full time of the round and the
extra spell-oh minute also, and it was
given out that full points for the round
had been awarded to Richards. It looked
a sensible arrangement; Richards had
plenty of time to recover from any pain
and the rattling a low one causes, and
thereafter, except for an accidental light
low hit later on, the fighting was im-
maculate.
Stewart fought better after that inci-
dent. In the sixth he shook Ron with a
nice right into the solar, and won that
round and either evened or had a bit the
better of things in the next three ; but
Ron was only a few times in any trouble,
and was evidently nursing reserves for his
hurricane finish. Stewart would prob-
ably have done a lot better if he hadn’t
gone into it with a plan of campaign.
He’d got close to winning their first en-
gagement, and had won their second, per
medium of bung-eye, and he concen-
trated throughout on getting another win
the same way—with a right to the bal-
cony of the left optic. It didn’t come
off. The plan, persisted in as it was, left
Ron with an open course of action which
he had the quick nous to take. All he
“ O.K.—I'll take this oner
had to do was keep the optic reasonably
well guarded, and he was otherwise free
to wade in and score as he wished. Box-
ing and fighting splendidly, he was too
fast for Stewart, was on top most of the
time and won easily.
An uncommonly good lot of prelims,
to the Richards-Stewart mill made it a
fine night of fight. The U.S.A. had a
turn in the main 10-rounder, in which
Dave Lefton (9st. s|lb.) knocked out Ray
Haddigan (9st. 6|lb.) with a left uppercut
in the ninth. Lefton is a very pretty
boxer —a good-looking youngster with
plenty of reach, a nice left, but not much
of a right, though it was a right rip that
made Haddigan drop his hands and come
forward open for the concluding upper-
cut.
An even more interesting appearance
was that of a Riverina lad by the name
of Rex Regan. Tipping the beam at
lOst. 51b., Rex won his first Stadium en-
gagement so well that the crowd pelted
him and the opposition—Jimmy Leonard
(lOst. 41b.) —with a useful amount of
coin of the realm. James is a tough lad,
and needed to be. For the first two
rounds the Riverina champ, fought with
what he had been taught, which included
better use of weaving than had been seen
for some time and other helpful boxing
attributes. The next four he just fought
natural style, slugging to match Jimmy’s
slugging, and that wasn’t so good. Still,
he won very well.
* * * *•
Osborne Again
The second scrap between Bert
Osborne and Joey Hutchinson at West
Melbourne was as thrilling as the first.
The Victorian thoroughly earned the
decision which Jack Carroll awarded him
at the end of the twelfth round: *he was
the stronger boy, his punching was more
effective, and he landed at least as often
as the black. But Hutchinson was always
determined and dangerous, and clever
withal. Full-throated cheers pursued the
boxers to their dressing-rooms, and a
generous measure of the applause was
for Hutchinson, who, at 9.5, was the
lighter by 31b.
Osborne claims the Australian light-
weight title. This claim is disputed by
Boxall, the Westralian, who outpointed
Morgan. A match is to be arranged, and
will take place as soon as Boxall is ready.
After whipping Morgan he said he would
like six months’ rest.
Nineteenth Hole
By repeating his last year’s double,
the national open and national amateur,
Jim Ferrier has performed a feat unique
in big golf. His consistency throughout
11 days of strenuous competitive play
was amazing.
In the amateur, Ferrier started with
an easy 10-and-9 win over F. H. Mitchell,
and followed this up by beating W. D.
Wishart 4 and 3, the Victorian offering
stout resistance At the end of the
quarter-finals he was the only surviving
New South Welshman.
In the semi-finals the Sydney man’s
first round of 68 gave him a lead of
7 over L. A. Duffy, who was defeated
6 and 4.
The final brought Williams and Ferrier
together once more. Williams had outed
A. N. Waterson (N.S.W.) after doing a
burst of nine holes in 31, and H. R. Payne
4 and 2. Six times he had beaten
Ferrier in other years, and only once had
Ferrier beaten him.
Royal Melbourne saw another scene.
From the first tee Ferrier had the measure
of the left-hander, who, though he
held his own with the wood, struck
trouble with his recovery and ap-
proach shots and on the greens. The
Victorian, 5 down at lunch, had to bow
to greater accuracy at the thirteenth in
the afternoon, when Ferrier had 6 to
spare and the title in his pocket.
In the professional championship the
final was fought out by the Naismith
cousins, Ted prevailing 7 and 5 over
his larger relative.
The ultimate winner’s closest call came
in the opening round, when he just
scrambled home 1 up on C. Snow
(W.A.). Thereafter he collared Von
Nida’s scalp, the ex-Bananalander thud-
ding 5 and 3 after play that never
rose above mediocrity, and in the semi-
finals swamped G. Cates (Vic.) 7 and
6. In the finals, which George also
entered with a push-over win from E.
Wood (Vic.), the cousins fought it out
evenly in the morning, but after lunch
Ted proceeded to annihilate Colonel
Bogey. Soon his morning margin of 1
up was far astern. George’s uphill fight
was unavailing against an opponent who
reeled off five of the 13 holes played
under fours.
* * * *
“El V.”: The sense of false values
which turns professional sportsmen into
millionaires appears at last to have in-
vaded British golf, where, despite Ameri-
can example, a professional has always
touched his hat to the squire, so to speak,
until recent years. Now, young Henry
Cotton has joined the roll of film stars
and foot-loose countesses among the
plutocracy of national idols. Henry is
professional at Ashridge, Herts, a bit
of land which would support several
British families if it were turned over to
farming. He has palatial quarters and
his own private secretary, and he has
just bought for £lO,OOO a 14-acre estate
with a manor house, fitted with an elabor-
ate cocktail bar and other civilised ameni-
ties. The breathless journal which de-
votes several illustrated pages to his
luxuries does not know what his income
is, but it is “several thousand pounds a
year.” Heads of great departments, such


• • •
»•• • • •
ANOTHER
MSSM
FROM
THE WORLD-FAMOUS BRITISH RACING DRIVER
. iiP^
m
..
' **w%
#}s&<■ ■
"It is good news/' says Sir Malcolm, "that
increasing numbers of British motor manufac-
turers are recommending the use of Ethyl petrol
in their instruction books. I have owned and
driven cars of many types and sizes, and I have
found that livelier acceleration and increased
power are obtained when Ethyl petrol is used.
This is due to the complete absence of knocking.”
Always use
SUPER
AUSTRAUAS BEST PETROL
ź
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in Australia)
P9tO
as the Home Office and Foreign Office,
of course, get £3OOO a year, the Director-
General of Munitions Production £2500
and the head of the British Museum
£1650 a year,
Racquet and Bawl
It has long been acknowledged that
America can always field a dangerous
team in Davis Cup singles. On its home
courts and before its home crowds par-
ticularly, it invariably gives a good
account of itself. This year’s Cup play
has been no exception.
Bromwich was hopelessly inferior to
Bobby Riggs in the opening singles of
the challenge round, and again showed
his weakness on a soft court. The Ameri-
can virtually did as he liked with him,
the Sydney man floundering before an
attack that was a shrewd admixture of
speed, cutting and slicing. The middle
set was a debacle, Riggs smashing and
volleying with accuracy and vigor. The
Australian started to make a game of it
in the third set, but Riggs applied the
pressure at the crucial points, 6-4, 6-0,
7-5. Bromwich fell down on the very
phase which is the foundation of his
game—patient and accurate returns ; he
had nine more outs and 10 more nets
than Riggs. The win doesn’t make Riggs
another Budge, but it revealed the Aus-
tralian’s glaring weakness.
Quist adapted himself better and gener-
ally gave a more creditable display
against Frank Parker, though he, too, was
beaten, 6-3, 2-6,'6-4, 1-6, 7-5. He proved
that the service of America’s No. 2 man
could be broken, and often, but the fore-
hand he hammered with a preconceived
strategy had a weakness more apparent
than real.
The doubles was all Australia, as ex-
pected. Against a combination which is
the best that we have produced for a
couple of decades Hunt and Kramer, a
pair new to Davis Cup tennis, could
make little impression. Bromwich was
still patchy in parts, but at vital times
he gave the necessary assistance to Quist,
who at the net cut sharply-angled volleys
to open country and buried smashes from
all over the court. It went only four sets
5-7, 6-2, 7-5, 6-2.
Footbrawl
The V.F.L. minor rounds finished with
Melbourne, Collingwood, Richmond and
St. Kilda “the four” in that order. Mel-
bourne will meet ’Wood, the loser to
have yet another chance—against the
better of the other two.
For the last round the leaders gave of
their best. Melbourne rattled up the points
to finish 11.13 to 4.11 ahead of Fitzroy,
Saints trounced “Sowth” very nearly as
badly (11.13 to 6.16), and Collingwood
turned on sterling football to safeguard
its second position on the list against a
determined challenge by Richmond. The
Tigers tried valiantly, but ’Wood was
easily the better on the day—l3.l3 to
8.11.
Yet an even better performance was
poor old Carlton’s. The Carltonites had
one chance of entering the semi-finals.
If Saints were beaten by “Sowth” and
if they themselves could maintain their
percentage against Essendon then they
were in. They went to it with vigor.
They gave the ’Dons never a chance to
settle down. Carlton kicked 16.22 to
Essendon’s 8.14, but it was unavailing—
St. Kilda won.
The other matches had no bearing on
the premiership, but both furnished sur-
prises. Footscray had its fourth win—
-11.17 to 6.7 over Hawthorn —and North
accounted for Geelong, 11.10 to 9.11.
* * * *
Port Adelaide, South, Norwood and
West Torrens are the Adelaide football
“four.” Norwood plays West Torrens on
Saturday, the loser to drop out. In the
last of the minor rounds Port over-
whelmed West Torrens 21.17 to 8.6.
“Sturt”: Ken Farmer, of North Adel-
aide, has brought off the astonishing feat
of kicking over 100 goals Australian
rules, of course—for the tenth consecutive
season. The average works out at a
shade over six goals for each match
played. It is the more creditable because
his team has seldom been quite at the top
of the list; in fact, this year it has not
even got into the final four.
* * * *
North was outed during Sydney’s
Rugby Union semi-finals, and now there
are three. Gordon plays University next
Saturday to decide which meets Rand-
wick the following week —that match to
determine the holder of the gaud.
The North-Uni. game was set down for
North Sydney, Randwick-Gordon for the
Gordonites’ home ground. Randwick
and ’Varsity both protested that they
should be allocated to “neutral” arenas,
and, though the students soon bowed
down to the will of the governing com-
mittee, ’Wick dispatched an ultimatum.
It held the right, even if beaten, to meet
the winner of the other match, so
its position looked secure. Then in face
of the invasion of Poland the Greens
decided that every man must do his duty!
They’d play.
Both protesting parties won their
matches, after both had been behind at
half-time. The ’Wick-Gordon encounter
began inauspiciously. Gordon pressed
from the kick-off. Shortly O’Brien missed
with a penalty kick; the ball touched
electric-light wires behind the try line and
dropped “in goal” ; a Gordon forward,
following fast, landed on it. A try;
Gordon, 3-nil. The ref. said afterwards
that the sun had prevented his seeing the
wires, and he could not reverse his deci-
sion. That try was converted, and a
penalty put Gordon 8-nil ahead when
they rested. The play had been rugged
in a strong wind. Afterwards Randwick
struck a few patches of brightness.
Miller, Towers’s partner in the centre,
notched three tries, another made the
tally 12 points, and two were converted—
-16-8, and Randwick goes direct to the
grand final.
At North Sydney ’Varsity was much
the stronger. North led 5-3 at lemons,
but the students finished it 14-5 in front
—three tries to one.
* * * *
“T.”: The Crisis —real at last —
found a Union Rugby team from Aus-
tralia and a League Rugby team from
Maoriland on their way to Britain, the
latter being first to arrive. Immediately
the situation became serious the English
Union suggested cancellation, but no hint
to that effect came from the League
quarter; a lot of good North of Eng-
land brass has been invested in the foot-
ballers-on-the-hoof from Maoriland.
Their manager, on reaching London, said
they would carry on, adding an expres-
sion of a fervent hope that “the tour
would not be cut short because of the
Crisis.” Presently he said his boys would
be available for a sterner game than
football, which is more like Maoriland.
Possibly Mr. Hitler could be persuaded
to call off his war until the Lancashire
laads get their brass back, plus 25 p.c.
* * * *
Balmain emerged from 15 years
in the shades to take the Sydney
Rugby League premiership with a 33-4
win over South Sydney. The S.C.G.
crowd was just on 27,000 —the largest for
some seasons. At the beginning of the
competition ’Main lacked cohesion and
“go,” but under the guidance of coach
Kelly and skipper Goodwin a remark-
able transformation was effected.
On Saturday ’Main played sound, at-
tractive football. South, on the other
hand, was ragged, especially towards the
finish, when, staggering round pass-
drunk, beaten men bewilderedly wondered
whether the women and children had
been saved from the wreck.
Early in the first half Fred Felsch and
his men held their own in some vigorous
exchanges, though at no time was the
new premiers’ citadel in much danger of
being crossed. Bischoff, behind the win-
ners’ pack, had a perfect understanding
with Quealey, who at five-eighth formed
the pivotal point of most of the attacks.
The half-back also put in some good
individual work, the first try coming from
his fast, swerving burst through from the
base of the scrum and his subsequent
sending over of the fast-following Hyde.
After lemons the rot set in properly;
tries were three a penny, and parked in
such handy positions that Day had no
trouble in converting five of them.
* * * *
Interest in the N.S.W. Soccer League
premiership has been heightened by the
defeat its fourth for the season —of
Goodyear, 4-2, by Wallsend. The Walls-
enders, thanks largely to the versatility
of the wing halves, repeatedly turned
defence into attack, in which Heaney and
Quill, who scored a brace each, gave the
tyremen a torrid time. Dellaway and
Conquest were evenly matched in all
phases of their work in the goal mouth.
In a game in which science bowed to
sheer vigor Western hoisted three goals to
St. George’s one. Wilkinson, the Geordies’
snappy inside right, was outstanding.
Adamstown beat Leichhardt by the same
margin in a dispirited affair; Granville
and Woonona-Bulli battled out a 2-all
draw in a game that was below standard ;
Metters downed Cessnock, 4-2, and New-
castle netted the only goal of the match
against Gladesville.
* * * *
“X.S.”: A friend employs an Albanian
fresh from Europe on odd jobs about his
place. On Saturday evening Mussolini’s
subject (or is he Zog’s?) returned from a
football match where the partisanship
had been more than usually enthusiastic
looking chastened and gloomy. It turned
out that he had seen some fighting and
that he objected to the Australian habit
of using fists. “You hurt one another,”
he said gently. “Don’t you ever fight
in Albania?” asked the householder.
“Oh, yes, often. Every day sometimes,”
said the handyman. “Then what do you
use?” “We use knives,” said the
Albanian simply, and as if that explained
everything.
The N.S.W. police have banned the
historic Goulburn-Sydney bike race,
alleging that it is dangerous to traffic.
This is preposterous, considering that the
French authorities, realising, among
other things, that the pushbike has some
military value, not only sanction but
encourage road races, in one of which,
as Opperman can testify, the competi-
tors ride round France. And the popu-
lation of their republic is about 15 times
that of N.S.W.


otmv-
z
AT THE.
iraw€iiLi
BH5]
NICK LUCAS, the Singrinjr Troubadour
and World Famous Guitarist.
NEW OVERSEA VARIETY STARS.
GEORGE ROBEY,
The Prime Minister of Mirth
And His All Star Company.
AMAZING VACUUM HELMET MACHINE
V i
BEFORE
FULLY
CUARANTFFD
AfrFfi
ź
SUNDRY
SHOWS
“Jamaica Inn”
Charles Laughton.
“Jamaica Inn,” at Sydney Prince
Edward, is remarkable for two things:
Charles Laughton’s acting and the fact
that the film’s trapdoor and secret passage
are missing. J. B. Priestley and Daphne Du
Maurier, who composed the story—pre-
sumably after an exhaustive study of
tenth-rate thrillers and first-rate books
for boys—have introduced all the other
props for a melodrama of smuggling in
Cornwall. The mad squire and the inno-
cent maid, the handsome smuggler who
was a revenue officer all the time, the
smugglers talking Cornish out of the
corners of their beards —they’re all there.
But except for Laughton they’re only
as much there as if they were painted on
a backdrop. Laughton, especially when
he is allowed to be villainous and
slightly insane, is a splendid figure for
melodrama, and if he had had adequate
support this film might have been as
good as “Mutiny on the Bounty.” The
photography, with smoky interiors and
storms on the Cornish coast, is almost
invariably good ; the episodes, properly
handled, should have been exciting ; the
dialogue has both power and humor, if
only it had been spoken with conviction.
When the camera has to deal with
one of the biggest scenes, a ship rushing
before a gale to a hairbreadth escape
from wreck on the rocks, it’s a failure.
It’s so obviously a toy ship on the film
company’s pond that there’s not the
slightest chance of anyone getting excited
about it. Similarly, the minor characters
always manage to be unconvincing just
when they should be convincing. The
first glimpse of the smugglers in the
back parlor of the Jamaica Inn shows
them sitting about naked to the waist.
They are meant to look tough; they
merely look cold. Leslie Banks, as the
leader of the gang, is so tough as to be
indigestible, and when he dies at the end
with an angelic smile on his face he is
far too seraphic. There is a boy
smuggler—the adventurous youngster
going to the bad —who is convincing
until he is arrested. Then, when he says
“I don’t want to be hanged ; I’m only a
boy,” he can’t rise to the occasion.
The innocent maiden is Maureen
O’Hara. She is a lass from Ireland who
has come to stay with smuggler-in-
chief and his sorrowing wife. Instead
of looking like someone acquainted with
the pig and the potato, she looks like an
actress from London forced to take part
in a melodrama and determined to look
pretty at whatever cost to the film.
Emlyn Williams makes the most satisfac-
tory smuggler, and Marie Ney, sorrow-
ing over Leslie Banks, takes the part
seriously and makes a very good job
of it.
If it weren’t for Laughton the film
would be feeble. With him it is humor-
ous, dramatic, subtle, entertaining from
beginning to end. As Squire Pengallon,
once the intimate of Beau Brummel, now
living at his country house, entertain-
ing the gentry, eyeing the portrait of the
ancestor who went mad, fingering the
delicate silks brought him by the
smugglers and secretly directing their
operations, he is a brilliant, fascinating
character.
To make him look the part of an
eighteenth-century gentleman the make-
up man has built him a nose like the
Duke of Wellington’s, and Laughton has
paid similar attention to every detail
of his performance until it glitters with
polish. As a study of advancing mad-
ness it could not be bettered ; Laughton
suggests the progress of mania by a
glance or a gesture, never once over-
acting but never failing to convey the
impression he intends. The portrait is
convincing without being horrible; even
when complete insanity overcomes the
squire, he remains a gentleman and a wit.
“One-third of a Nation ”
Sylvia Sidney, Leif Erikson.
President Roosevelt said that “one-
third of a nation [he was speaking of
the U.S.A.] is ill-fed, ill-clothed and ill-
housed.” Hence the title of this Sydney
Capitol attraction, which is concerned
ostensibly with housing problems in New
York. It is a well-meaning effort, reminis-
cent in parts of “Dead End,” but it
would carry more weight if it was not
The Law, the smuggler and Charles Laughton looking down the nose specially
modelled for Sir Humphrey Pengallon—“Jamaica Inn” at Sydney Prince Edward.
cluttered up with a stereotyped poor girl-
rich man plot.
Sylvia Sidney, as well-dressed as
ever, lives in an unhealthy,, dilapi-
dated and dangerous tenement which
is owned by a wealthy, handsome
young fellow played by Leif Erikson. A
fire causes the death of five people in
the tenement, and Miss Sidney’s small
brother, while leaping from a window,
is crippled for life. Erikson, who wit-
nessed the tragedy, is shocked into pay-
ing the child’s hospital expenses and at
the same time is smitten by the charms
of his lovely tenant.
Her response is to attack Erik-
son at an inquiry into the fire.
She later urges him to convert his
property into decent living abodes, but
he listens to his family, which advises
otherwise. It takes another fire, started
by the crippled youngster, who has been
conducting nocturnal dialogues with the
spirit of the house, to bring the landlord
to a proper realisation of his responsibili-
ties. The youngster is killed in a harrow-
ing scene, and Erikson hastens to raze
his warrens and erect habitable premises
in their place. His reward is the goil.
“Bulldog Drummond's Bride ”
John Howard , Heather Angel.
Heather Angel is the third star to por-
tray Phyllis Clavering, Bulldog’s repeat-
edly disappointed girl friend, and to her
belongs the honor of leading “Sapper’s”
sleuth to the altar. As might be expected
it was no easy performance, since John
Howard (Bulldog), as usual, is in pursuit
of public enemies.
On this occasion the evildoers
are a couple of bank robbers and
the loot substantial. At the end of
the first round the crooks are ahead on
points, the reason being that they are
merely up against a squad from Scotland
Yard led by H. B. Warner. When
Howard temporarily deserts his fiancee
and, aided by his old friends, Reginald
Denny and E. E. Clive, enters the fray
without permission, the crooks soon take
to their heels. The hunted and the
hunters cross the English Channel, and
a game of hide and seek, capture and
recapture is played out in traditional
style in a small French town.
A bearded French Mayor and a
ludicrous pair of gendarmes add humor
to the hue and cry. The wedding
ceremony takes place after a Donny-
brook on the rooftops of the town
and to the noise of exploding bombs.
At Sydney Capitol.
“/ Killed the Count ”
When this opus by the ex-Melburnian
Alec Coppel had concluded at Melbourne
King’s on Saturday some time after 11,
the Bulletin man had come to the
conclusion that either he had killed the
count himself or he hadn’t been killed
at all, or perhaps there was no count to
kill, and that the whole thing was phan-
tasmagoria. Four persons confessed to
having killed the wretched man, and, in
the bedroom of his flat in London, each
constructed the crime in a different and
more complicated fashion before the
astonished eyes of Divisional Inspector
Davidson (Harvey Adams) and Detective
Raines (John D’Arcy), who expressed
their bewilderment very feelingly, though
not half as feelingly as the audience, which
would have liked to kill the fiendish Mr.
Coppel for having displayed so much
misspent ingenuity in disposing of a dis-
solute nobleman in such a tortuous
manner.
Which isn’t to say that Mr. Coppel
hasn’t written an amusing play—though
a trifle long for all but the most enthusi-
astic amateurs of crime detection in the
modern theatre. The Melbourne play-
wright has genuine comedic talent, and
can draw comic characters admirably, as,
for example, Samuel Diamond, the Jew
who is engaged elsewhere in the build-
ing negotiating a deal with a French-
man, and who, in course of being cross-
questioned about the count, constructs
the offstage scene so expressively tha
the most living character in the play 1
the Frenchman who never makes an ap-
pearance. _
Clifford Cowley played this role witn
masterly verisimilitude. In fact, the local
players, who included Katie Towers,
Harvey Adams, John D’Arcy, Alec Pratt
and Leslie Victor, were so good that the
inclusion of a couple of imported leads
seemed a concession to the convention
that Australian actors are, ipso facto,
only wood and water joeys. Doris
Packer was funny as an American dancer,
but anybody could have taken the part
of lan Keith, as the man who conspires
with his father to kill his sister’s husband
because he is driving her crazy with his
dissolute habits.
“Lot’s Wife.”
Peter Blackmore’s “Lot’s Wife,” pre-
sented by the Sydney Players’ Club at
St. James Hall, is a brisk, themeless
comedy, peopled with stock types and
dependent upon a coincidence for its
climax. John Lot, middle-aged, peppery
and vain, is a typical light-comedy Eng-
lishman. His young wife has beauty
but is somewhat scatterbrained. He has
two daughters by a former marriage
one plain and a grumbler, the other a
good-looker, gay and uncomplaining.
The three young men who dodge in and
out of the piece are a conventional trio.
There are also a silly old aunt and an
even sillier widow. All reside in a dull
suburban fashion at a place called
Modos, somewhere in Asia Minor. They
bicker and squabble over trivial things
and naturally look down upon the native
population. A volcanic eruption wipes
out the town, and John Lot and his two
daughters find themselves isolated for a
year upon a plateau made practically in-
accessible by the upheaval. Two babies
put in an appearance and add to the
discomforts. The five are eventually
rescued, and are confronted with Mrs.
Lot, whom they thought destroyed, re-
married to the stodgiest of the three
young men. After some polite wrangling
she clears off With her latest husband.
Mr. Lot doesn’t greatly regret her de-
parture. Most of the laughs are con-
tained in the dialogue, and some of the
situations are amusing. The actors
tackled the play in a hearty manner.
None reached a high level in clowning,
but Clarence Street, Patricia Gilogley,
John Howard and Gwen Sherwood man-
aged their parts competently enough.
Noel E. Waterworth was producer.
“Switzerland.”
The thaw has set in at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, the ice show having de-
parted after an extraordinarily successful
season. Until the advent of “Switzer-
land,” if anybody had suggested that
there was anything theatrically entranc-
ing about a lot of individuals skating
about, while the leading comedian fell
on his bottom, he would have been re-
garded as crazy; but the J.C.W. show
has started a boom in the business, and
now every rink in the city and outside
it has taken on the aspect of a swift-
motion Russian ballet. The local per-
formers are little behind their overseas
exemplars. “Under Your Hat” will doff
its lid to the public on Saturday now that
the ice has melted at His Majesty’s.
Spain in Adelaide.
Adelaide Repertory has dipped into
the Spanish of Sierra; production by
Ronald Peterson.
This “Romantic Young Lady” is
modern enough to envy her brothers
their freedom to go out and look for
romance ; but it comes to her when a
hat blows in at the window and its
owner climbs after it. In conversation,
he gives her a letter of introduction to her
favorite novelist as secretary, and when
she goes for the situation the two men
(of course) turn out to be the same man.
Iris Hart and Frank Waters played
this light stuff with great effect. Humor
came with a particularly understanding
grandmother (Beryl Roberts) and her
old family retainer (Florence Brown,
richly funny).
Sargent and Goll.
Pianist Edward Goll was the soloist
at the second Sargent concert at the
Town Hall, Melbourne, last week. The


\Ntf
tv**
So\
CVtN"
to
With thousands
of fastidious people this is
a daily habit
Dental authorities agree that a dirty,
stained denture is a constant menace to
health as it provides ideal conditions for
dangerous bacteria. Why not clean your
false teeth, and keep them clean, by the
method dentists are now recommending?
This is the regular bath in ‘Steradent’
solution. ‘Steradent’ will make your
false teeth spotlessly clean, fresh and
natural-looking —and keep them that way.
Fill the cap of the tin with ‘Steradent’ and
pour the powder into a glass containing sufficient
warm water (not hot) to cover the dentures.
Stir well. Put in your dentures and leave them
while you dress or overnight. Take them out
and rinse thoroughly under the tap.
Stains disappear. Dull teeth gleam white
again. ‘Steradent’ penetrates into every crevice.
Your whole denture is purified. Your mohth
feels cool, smooth and refreshed. 'Steradent’
is superior to anything I know of,’
writes one dentist. '/ wish every-
one wearing dentures knew about
it,’ writes another.
‘Steradent’ is guaranteed harm-
less to dental materials. Sold by
all chemists. Price 2/-. Double
size 3/6.
TRIAL OFFER. Send 2d. in
stamps for trial supply to Reckitts
(Over Sea) Ltd., Box 2515 88,
G.P.0., Sydney, and mention the
name of this paper
ż
Steraderit
cleans and sterilizes false teeth
You can COOK OVERNIGHT
if your Cooker is an AGA
; wM&tM
wMmmmmmm
•"% :
m
jxm
m
\(Sj
« S ■
........ *5 n
<d
R- mmm
: ;
H
K
wamm
mmm
H
*
ia
THE AGA Cooker is unique in
many ways—not least of its virtues
being the ability to cook overnight at
no extra cost. With the AGA Cooker
real oatmeal comes back into its
own. There is no need to stir it —
just put it in the Cooking Oven over-
night and it will be perfectly cooked
and ready at breakfast time. Prunes,
apricots, etc., can be stewed in the
same way. In the morning they will
come out of the oven unbroken but
thoroughly cooked and bulging with
fruitiness. Stock and large hams
can be cooked also while you sleep.
In addition to banishing drudgery, an
AGA brings you undreamt-of
economy. The fuel consumption of
model “C” illustrated is guaranteed
not to exceed £3 worth of coke a
year (with coke at 30s. a ton).
Not until you install an AGA
Cooker will you realise what you
have been missing. To cook with
an AGA is to know true cooking
perfection. To explain it to your
friends is to feel a thrill of pride at
their unbounded enthusiasm.
If you would only see an AGA
Cooker in operation and have its
many unique features explained to
you we know you would begin to
realise why over 40,000 owners con-
sider their AGA Cooker the best
investment in happiness, economy
and good living they ever made.
We have an AGA Cooker in opera-
tion in our showrooms. See it to-day
or write for illustrated booklet R 9
entirely without obligation.
AGA
(REGD. TRADE HARK)
7k (MgmdTkatSimoe.
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN &. CO., LTD. (Ine. in N.Z.), Estab. 1852, 45 King St., Sydney.
And 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne; and Wellington, N.Z.
S.A. Agents: Colton, Palmer & Preston, Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
veteran Czech musician has such a large
following of past and present pupils and
such an army of admirers of his services
to local music that he was sure of a
cheerful reception. The concerto he
selected was the No. 1 in B flat minor
of Tschaikowsky, heard before in Mel-
bourne under the fingers of many
talented performers. Goll tackled the
sharp argument between the piano and
the orchestra in the first movement with
such strength and virility that there ought
to have been nothing left to say in the
final rpndo ; but he had plenty of re-
serves to bring to bear on the savage
rhythms of the Cossack dance, which
contrasted finely with the tenderness of
the andantino that preceded it. He had
to forge his way four or five times
through the ranks of the instrumentalists
to take the applause at the finish.
Sargent, as spry as ever, introduced
for the first time to Melbourne the excit-
ing buzzings of “The Wasps” of Vaughan
Williams in the overture the English
composer wrote to a performance of
the Aristophanes comedy at Cambridge,
and it was followed by a fragment full
of floating tone by Delius called “Song
Before Sunrise.” Rimsky-Korsakov’s sym-
phonic suite “Scheherazade” concluded
the proceedings. It sounded a much more
coherent story of the tortuous manoeuvres
of the sultana who put off her execution
by focusing her husband’s attention on
a succession of smoke-room stories than
the ballet which Michael Fokine intro-
duced to Melbourne at His Majesty’s
during the last visit of the Russians.
Moreover, the absence of the incidental
noises which the ballet dancers make
enabled the hearers to discover that there
were nuances of tone and color in the
opus that have to be taken for granted
in a theatre.
Sargent is nothing if not sudden and
electric, and he had the symphony
orchestra charged up to its full potential.
If the Town Hall were a little older some
of his climaxes would have shaken the
plaster off the ceiling. The love scene in
the second movement of “Scheherazade”
was as pretty as anything that has been
heard in Melbourne for a long time.
John Brownlee’s Recitals.
When last inspected at Melbourne
Town Hall, John Brownlee was still
forging his way through one of the most
varied and extensive repertoires that any
vocalist has brought to Australia, but
General Request was assuming com-
mand of his programmes. No singer has
exhibited such skill as a programme-
builder, and the singer from Geelong
kept his audiences agog for what was
coming without once lowering the quality
of his music. There are signs and portents
of the baritone appearing in an extra
extra celebrity concert with Sargent and
symphony orchestra.
Marcel Dupre.
Marcel Dupre said his farewells to
Australia in a series of four recitals at
Sydney Town Hall last week. Among
notable works performed were the Bach
Organ Toccata in F and Fantasy and
Fugue in G Minor, and the Cesar Franck
“Prelude, Fugue and Variations.” Even-
ing recitals were fairly well attended;
lunch-hour ones were not so popular.
As in a previous season, principal in-
terest centred in Mr. Dupre’s powers of
improvisation. Among themes treated in
masterly fashion last week were “Waltz-
ing Matilda,” “Last Rose of Summer,”
“Here’s a Health Unto His Majesty” and
“The British Grenadiers.” Impromptu
performances such as this are a high test
of musicianship. It is worth remembering
that Beethoven excelled in this art.
Chamber Music.
The Sydney String Quartet, which
played with Schnabel recently, gave a
concert at Sydney Con. on Wednesday
night. Programme included two Schon-
berg compositions with a vocal part
(soprano Ila Turnbull) and Pfitzner’s
Quintet in C (pianist Alexander Sverjen-
sky). The Schonberg “poems” explore, as
they progress, the outer realms of caco-
phony and discordance. The Pfitzner
work is heaviness without depth. Beet-
hoven’s F Minor Quintet (Op. 95), per-
formed in sterling style, was as wine to
the more modern composers’ ditch-water.
Comedy Harmonists.
The Town Hall cat and most other
highbrows were absent from the first
appearance of the Harmonists during
their second visit to Sydney last week,
but the little band of musical confec-
tioners had the compliment of a house
filled to overflowing with enthusiasm and
appreciation. There are evidently several
Townhallfuls of Harmonist addicts in
Sydney, and they rolled along in force
to stamp their feet and put their hands
together for more and more of that
peculiar brand of musical frothery dis-
pensed by the team of five vocalists, plus
pianist.
Like most other A.B.C. imports, they’re
much better on stage than heard over
the air. Their singing and harmonising
are very pretty and skilful at any time, but
on stage the team uses all sorts of man-
nerisms and antics to build themselves
up to a tiptop vaudeville turn and a com-
plete night’s entertainment.
Their singing of Schubert, Mozart and
Brahms is lovely, but more popular are
the extraordinary patterns of sound they
weave in imitating instruments in ren-
dering such pieces as the overture to “The
Barber of Seville” and “Poet and
Peasant” and “In a Persian Market.”
Pictures by School-teachers.
A surprising show is that of the
Teachers’ Federation Art Society at
Federation House, Sydney—surprising
because most of the pictures exhibited,
whatever their shortcomings considered
in the light of academic traditions, dis-
play an individual, original outlook. The
Teachers, if not too sure about form, are
confident about color, and the ensemble
effect of the show is one of gaiety and
freshness.
A typical example is Isabel McKenzie’s
“Corner of Summer-street, Orange,” a
little grotesque in drawing, but a vivid,
faithful and pleasing impression. Then
there is Walter Placing, who quite obvi-
ously cares nothing about drawing but
takes joy in color. His simple designs,
in water-color or tempora, posters in
essence, all please the eye. James Glee-
son’s art is evidently an escape from peda-
gogy. He paints such subjects as
“Sequence preceding the killing of the
lunatics,” “Neo-organic function describ-
ing the inclination of the entities” and
“Implement of our carbon heart.” These
peculiar designs (to describe them briefly
would be misleading) have a dream
quality. They are imagination tethered
to reality by the slenderest of cords.
“Asymptotic pain image” suggests quite
a lot of abstruse reflections concerning
the brain’s reactions to acute discomfort
and the pictorial character of subcon-
scious mental processes. Gleeson may
be just a jester, but his gibes lend them-
selves to many subtleties. Bernard
Smith’s designs, on the other hand, are
obscure, but also dull.
Rah Fizelle, who has a niche of his
own in the art world of Sydney, and
who has latterly been dabbling in
“abstractions,” prefers to show himself
in this company as a limner in pencil
of heads in the classic manner. One por-
trait in oils apes the crudity of the
moderns, but succeeds nevertheless in
being a quite well-painted impression.
Among the more conventional exhibitions
John Nickol catches the eye with
“Minnamurra Lower Falls,” a water-
color that has some of the queer quali-
ties of a Lloyd Rees and some of the
color-taste of a Tom Garrett. Gwen
Hole’s self-portrait in pencil is charm-
ing, and Blanche Brice’s “Oranges and
Lemons” is a gay, unstilted bit of
painting.
Gladys Owen’s Water-colors,
Gladys Owen (Mrs. John Moore nowa-
days) has a show of water-colors at the
Macquarie Galleries, Sydney, gleanings
of a tour through England and the Con-
tinent last year. This painter’s com-
petence was demonstrated long ago, and
her powers of expression are growing.
She is at her best, to this critic’s mind,
in subjects that allow her to demonstrate
the excellence of her drawing. In her
rural landscapes, such as the Scottish
series in the present show, there is little
that is individual or distinctive —her life-
partner paints just such heavy skies, for
instance —but set her in the garden of
the Tuileries or the Luxembourg amid
graceful architecture, trim lawns and
trees of formal cut, and she makes ex-
quisite pictures. “On the River,
Chartres,” is beautiful, and “The Gate,
Avalon,” and the sketches made at
Vezelay are also delectable. A portfolio
of wood-engravings shows advanced
proficiency and excellent taste in this
difficult art.
Modernist Art in Adelaide.
The contemporary art collection
(mainly French), financed patriotically by
Australian newspapers—the “Advertiser”
in Adelaide —has had its first showing
in that city. Discussion rages. As presi-
dent Talbot Smith said at the official
opening by the Governor, “Most of these
pictures come from the banks of the
Seine, or say the borders of the Seine,
and sometimes those borders seem to
have been overstepped.” The local ex-
perts, McCubbin, MacNally, Goodchild,
stand up stoutly for the vision and
honesty of purpose shown. Burdett, who
had a large part in selecting the pictures,
pleads that there is need to wean Aus-
tralia from its “inbreeding, constant
repetition and academic conservatism.”
One turns naturally to the great names.
Van Gogh has really masterly portraits,
but his landscape is less satisfying. Picasso
compels attention with his flowers and
still-life ; but unwillingly the eye centres
on a welter of blue and brown palm-
leaves (apparently), a good wallpaper, de-
sign, which the catalogue declares to be
three nudes. For the show of Matisse
one is grateful, also for the Gauguin,
ranging from Tahitian figures to his snow-
covered Breton village, as remembered
in exile by a dying man. His color has
hardly had justice done to it in the re-
productions that we know. Cezanne,
hard and formal, is yet obviously a
master.
Elsewhere the beautiful is not for-
gotten. Utrillo shows his familiar streets
of Paris. They may be no better than
Will Ashton’s, but this, evidently, is as
a Frenchman sees them. Bonnard and
Signac are distinct “finds.”
But there is too much of the eccentric
and of sheer distortion of the human
figure. Two odd Freudian dreams may
suffice. Violent streaks of rainbow
colors, seemingly under water; that is
the growth of a grain of wheat. The
“Flower-Man” ; a bust, bearded but also
breasted, and breaking out into rosebuds
at odd spots; this standing on a palette,
through the thumbholes of which are seen
glimpses of seascape ; at one corner (and
possibly pasted on) a batch of designs for
crest or seal.


THE BUCKLAND CONVALESCENT
HOSPITAL. SPRINGWOOD.
m
,-fd
Specially founded for convalescent women invalids.
Qualified matron and staff. Every possible comfort
and convenience. All single rooms, ideal surround-
ings and delightful atmosphere. Terms on application.
Telephone, 123 S’pringwood; or particulars from
Office of Trustees, 14 Spring Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 84771.
1
.
KUCHING’S
SPECIALISTS IN TRAVEL GOODS
AND FANCY LEATHER GOODS.
LADIES’ KIT BAGS IN ALL COLOURS
Morocco and Calf Leathers.
Fitted with Secure Lock.
lOin. and 12in. Price 37/6
C. E. KITCHING PTY., LTD.,
319 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Near Wynyard Station).
Tel.: 8W7133.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1446 of 1939.
BETWEEN EDITH MAUDE GIBSON Peti-
tioner
And WALTER RICHARD GIBSON Re-
spondent.
TO WALTER RICHARD GIBSON late of
Blacktown in the State of New South
Wa le S
TAKE NOTICE that the said EDITH
MAUDE GIBSON has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the
grounds that you have without just cause or
excuse wilfully deserted her and without any
such cause or excuse left her continuously so
deserted during three years and upwards AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-third day of November next AND
in the event of your not doing so within the
time limited or obtaining further time the Peti-
tioner will proceed and the suit be heard and
determined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge. „„„„
DATED this 25th day of August, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
STEPHEN HERFORD, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 104 Hunter Street, Sydney,
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Last week, with the rest of the world,
Sydney was tensed, like some macabre
ballet poised for the entrance of Fate.
Heralded by the bombing of Poland, Fate
entered. But with the first reverberation
the rigidity was shattered, and the ballet
sprang into action, supporting and guard-
ing the steps of Peace, to whom are
allotted the ultimate triumph, the trum-
pets and the crown.
Australia is not to welcome the Duke
and Duchess of Kent this year. The
Commonwealth hopes this is only a
delayed pleasure, and that with the return
of peace the Duke and his graceful
Duchess will go into residence in Yarra-
lumla. It has been cabled that the Duke
has . taken up a war appointment, and
that his departure from England has
been postponed indefinitely. Meanwhile
Lord and Lady Gowrie will carry on.
Quite the hero of this year’s Industrial
Arts show is John Dabron, whose “bache-
lor flat” is alone worth a visit to the
exhibition in the Education Gallery.
John’s bed-sitting apartment is most in-
genious. He made all the furniture him-
self, and wove the curtains, the day-bed
coverlet and the Mediterranean blue (cer-
tainly not blues) dressing-gown that hung
beside it. The benches drew the prolonged
“Oh!” of admiration from the house-
keeping sex. The upholstered seat of
each bench could be lifted, and, behold!
there was revealed a few-inches-deep
cavity in which table linen and
cutlery could be stored. One wondered
speculatively if some of John’s forebears
had cunningly contrived priest holes. The
sideboard, too, was fascinating with its
drawer and cupboard. All the woodwork
is fresh golden Australian pine. There
were two sets of curtains for the win-
dows. Thick cream hangings at the sides,
and the inner ones a riot of red, blue,
green and gold stripes. John’s job in life
is teaching at Sydney High.
Mary Soady’s mural “Australia Felix”
captivates the beholder from the wall at
the back of the platform. The dominant
figures are symbolic of the arts. These
rise above the figures engaged in athletics.
There’s a background of the Bridge and
the fruits of the earth, and a glimpse
of blue waters in the middle distance. It
is graceful and full of movement, and
held the gaze of many visitors, including
Will Ashton, of the National Gallery,
and novelist Harry Tighe. The cocktail-
glass towels struck a bright and merry
note. These are designed by M. A. Cad-
dell. The design is sent to Ireland, and
then the linen, towels come back pat-
terned with cocktail glasses, printed with
recipes for the aperitif —Martinis, side-
cars, etc. and their accompanying
savories are shown reposing on their
beds of toast or skewered on their tooth-
picks,
Betty Coller, many times mentioned in
this Letter, who was at once appealing
and forceful as the heroine, Mollie O’Dea,
in Nora McAuliffe’s “Sea Chest,” and
who has appeared in a long list of ama-
teur successes, has become a professional
actress. Last week she joined the com-
pany which will open next Saturday, Sep-
tember 9, in “A Kiss from Kiki” at the
Minerva. For the past two years Betty
has had a job as personality girl with the
County Council. She is pretty, vital, and
has a resonant speaking voice. She will
understudy Aileen Britton, who plays a
leading part.
At last the Independent Theatre group
has a theatre of its own. It has gone
quite a step from its studio in Pitt-street
to house its drama. The old Criterion in
Miller-street, North Sydney, has been
taken over, redecorated by architect
Alfred Brown, an Independent enthusiast,
and its opening production last Satur-
day night was Terence Rattigan’s “French
Without Tears.” It is strange to think
that the two flesh-and-blood theatres
which this year has brought to life are
right out of the old-time Poverty Point
orbit. The Minerva is at King’s Cross,
and now Independent followers will have
to journey to Miller-street (two doors
from Ridge-street and North Sydney
Park). Director Doris Fitton points out
that travellers from the city can get
trams at Wynyard that drop them at the
door of the new playhouse in 10 minutes
at a cost of threepence.
Lady Wakehurst will be back in time
for the White Ball. This will be the big
effort of 1939 for the Industrial Blind
Institution. Every year a committee of
splendid workers nets from the yearly
ball £lOOO or more. This year they are
determined, with Bea Meeks as untiring
secretary, to top all previous records.
This year’s White Ball will repeat in
every picturesque detail the original
one which was the talk of 1936. Date,
October 3 ; place, the Trocadero.
What would “Man and Superman”
have done without the Curry Club? You
know the Bryant Playhouse has been
indulging in a Shaw festival, and one
of its show pieces was “Man and Super-
man” (without cuts). Like Wagner and
Eugene O’Neill, G.B.S. sees no arbitrary
reason why a theatre presentment should
run a mere two and a half to three hours,
so this particular play takes hours and
hours. The Bryant Playhouse present-
ment started at five and finished round
about eleven. That’s where the Curry
Club did its scout deed. The club’s
members are Playhouse familiars. Once
a month they make and consume their
own stew while turning the ear to some
highbrow subject. For “Man and Super-
man” they slung their pots above the
crackling sticks, and served curry to the
audience during the long supper interval.
Mothers who are germ-conscious are
going to greet with delight the tub-skin
doll that is to be featured among the
Christmas toy displays in Sydney stores.
The fine top layer of Dolly’s epidermis
comes off from the crown of the head
to the soles of the feet, can be washed
and then drawn on again. The clever
inventor is Mrs. Elizabeth Gould-King,
whose photograph came from Peter Pan
studios only last week. Mrs. Gould-
King, who organised the cleverly-dis-
played Industrial Arts Exhibition in the
Education Galleries, is a graduate of the
New York School of Applied Design for
Women. This is a three years’ course,
and is very comprehensive.
Mrs. Gould-King’s mother was a
graduate of the same school, and is now
a well-known designer in U.S.A. who
specialises in the redecorating and reno-
vating of American antique furniture.
The wrought-iron railing which encloses
the platform in the Education Galleries
for the duration of the present exhibition
is Mrs. Gould-King’s work. It shows
a graceful lyrebird motif. A wallpaper
panel patterned with Australian bush
flowers is another of the show’s attrac-
tions.
Lawrence Campbell’s annual G.P.S.
competition for oratory attracted 10
entrants to Grammar’s assembly hall the
other evening. For the first time adjudi-
cators were forced to retire to consider a
verdict which was not unanimous. Their
consultation lasted 20 minutes. Grammar
won the prize for the first time, thanks to
Bowie’s cheery manner and personality,
with Burke (Riverview) and Jenkins
(Shore) second. Mr. Campbell said the
standard was far higher than in previous
years. Each entrant has 15 minutes to pre-
pare an impromptu speech of 15 minutes’
duration on one of three subjects previ-
ously unknown to him. This year the
choice lay among “Faint Heart Never
Won Fair Lady,” “Commerce as a
Career” and “Responsibilities of Citizen-
ship.”
Dagmar Roberts, young and clever
Sydney pianist, has something the look
of a cherub in an old Italian painting.
She has a memorised repertoire of 350
solos, apart from concertos and chamber
music. As a very young girl she toured
Queensland as solo pianist and accom-
panist with Molly de Gunst. In 1937
she did a tour of all the capital cities of
Australia under the A.B.C. banner with
contralto Eileen Boyd. Probably the
youngest adjudicator ever appointed, she
was judge of instrumental sections at the
St. George Eisteddfod in 1936. She gives
many radio recitals. One of the most
attractive entertainments Sydney has seen
as well as listened to was the Chopin re-
cital with costume and settings of the
period which Dagmar gave in associa-
tion with John Wyndham. John was one
of our best-known amateur actors, and is
now achieving a name in England with
the Harrogate Repertory. This clever
girl is looking towards further study in
Europe next year if things settle down.
In the meantime she will play in asso-
ciation with Oliver King at a concert next
month.
Although the noise of Mars pulling on
his gauntlets and coat-of-mail was thun-
derous last week, Gladys Owen simply
muttered “Business as usual,” and hung
the Macquarie Galleries with her water-
colors. Gladys’s recent journey was the
inspiration for these gracefully captured
old churches, old towns, bits of Paris,
reminders of a Luxembourg where the
stilly poplars were an invocation to
Peace, glimpses of Scotland and the Chil-
terns. Husband John D. Moore sup-
ported his artist wife.
Marie Bremner (Mrs. Ewart Chappie
matrimonially), whose husband, like
Gladys Owen Moore herself, is an A.B.C.
potentate, declared the show open. Marie,
who is as pretty as a Regency belle, was
pictorial in a cunning mingling of powder
and deep sapphire blues. Gladys wore
the hat and frock in which she had made
her bob to the Governor-General and
Lady Gowrie the previous day at the
Admiralty House party. Seven pictures
bore the sold seal before the end of the
afternoon. Marie Bremner went home,
her arms filled with spring flowers.
More rich and fluent Australian voices
were heard on the last night of the City
of Sydney Eisteddfod. Marie Ryan,
known to readers of this page, came first
in the women’s operatic section with the
“Mignon” aria. Marie is a sparkling
twenty-two or so. Raymond Nilsson, of
Cremorne, carried off the men’s first with
“II Mio Tesoro” from “Don Giovanni.”
Alfred Hill’s “Marriage Song” was
among the numbers which won the inter-
State choral championship for Richard
McClelland’s students’ choir. Mayor
Norman Nock and his lady, the Hugh
Denison couple, Thelma Houston, Aider-
man G. Parkes and his wife and Mrs. D.
G. McDougall were in the large audience.
While the newsboys were handing out
war specials on Friday night nearly 300
men and women among their customers
were making for Romano’s in York-
street, ironically enough, in the interests
of the newly-born-and the about-to-be-
born. This dance for the Crown-street
Women’s Hospital was a great success.
There was a friendly atmosphere, and at
half a guinea a ticket president Mrs.
Bertie Kelly could see a cosy pile of
shekels mounting up.
She and her husband were celebrating
the anniversary of their wedding, and
had given a dinner party previous to the
dance. The Australian Club was the
scene of this.
The Frederick Waley lady, a great
worker for the Crown-street institution,
held a bright bjrthday party. In the
middle of her table was a large ice-
cream cake sent by small Moya and
Maureen Bott. The hospital’s efficient
secretary, May Mitchell, was there. In
Mrs. Harold Bott’s party were the Hope
Gibsons, also celebrating their wedding
anniversary.
One proud little Scottie wore a tartan
coat to the R.S.P.C.A. gymkhana last
Saturday. He was accompanied by a
small girl owner who proudly swung a
skirt of the same tartan. The Weigall
grounds of Sydney Grammar at Rush-
cutter Bay were a joyous and spirited
scene, a flurry of barking and laughing
dogs, of wind and flying grass and sand,
of cockers and dogs that looked like
animated mats, and whose long and silky
hair simply caught every flying fragment
and had to be constantly brushed by
anxious owners. The grounds were
crowded with fashionables. The Fred
McMaster lady declared the show open,
and the Fairfax lady handed over prizes.
Dressing was mostly tweedy, and the
fun of the afternoon was the dog-and-
owner race and the ball-retrieving game.
Occasionally an interloper would streak
in between a dog and his expected catch,
and a few comments not according to
canine Vere de Vere standards were ex-
changed. A man was heard to say he
owned 15 Chows. Mrs. George Brookes,
Wendy and Pat Burge, Mrs. Harold
Weigall and Mrs. Bennett Bremner were
among the dog-lovers.
The family of Dr. Arnott, of Killara
had a nightmare experience last week.
The family were motoring down from
Goulburn, where they have a country
home. One of the girls was driving, and
Mrs. Arnott leaned over to adjust the
window. Instead of the window lever,
she twisted the door handle, and, the door
springing open, she was flung from the
car, which was travelling at a fast rate.
Mrs. Arnott, now in the Goulburn
district hospital, is suffering from scalp
wounds and shock. The members of
the family cancelled social engagements
last week. That was why Phyllis was
absent from the dance at Romano’s in
aid of the Crown-street Women’s Hos-
pital:
A special, vote of thanks to the Comedy
Harmonists for helping to put a smile
into last week-end. The mulberry velvet
cloak and the black and silver brocades
of musical-arranger Harry Frommer-
mann’s wife were admired. Baritone
Cycowski’s wife, too, and Mrs. Fritz
Kramer enjoyed the programmes. From
Melbourne was Jessie Brooks. Patience
and Penelope Cay, Dorothy Porter, Mrs.
Norris, Mrs. Searight, Miss N. Veitch
and Mrs. Nelson Cox were others caught
in the irresistible gale of laughter.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
Divorce.
TO JOHN HAY formerly of New Norfolk in
Tasmania and later of Major’s Creek New
South Wales Clerk.
TAKE NOTICE that your wife FRANCES
JANIE HAY has filed a petition for divorce
against you on the grounds of desertion If
you wish to defend the matter you must enter
an appearance at the Supreme Court Hobart
before 10th October next.
(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM, Registrar,
Supreme Court, Hobart.
OLDHAM, BEDDOME and MEREDITH.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 61 of 1939.
BETWEEN GLADYS ELLEN CHATMAN
Petitioner
And GORDON NEIL CHATMAN Re-
spondent.
TO GORDON NEIL CHATMAN late of
Dubbo in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said GLADYS
ELLEN CHATMAN has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is praying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years without just cause or
excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you are
required to enter an appearance to the said
suit at the proper office of this Court on or
before the Twenty-second day of November
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine
and in the event of your not doing so within
the time limited or obtaining further time the
Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this 23rd day of August, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
ERROL V. HICKEY, Solicitor for Petitioner,
11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 209 of 1939.
BETWEEN RONALD KEITH COOPER Peti-
tioner
And MARY LAWRENCE COOPER Re-
spondent
LANCE BOWHAY Co-respondent.
TO LANCE BOWHAY of Yeoval.
TAKE NOTICE that the said RONALD
KEITH COOPER has commenced a suit
against his wife MARY LAWRENCE
COOPER in this Court and is applying for a
dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
adultery wherein the said Ronald Keith Cooper
alleges that you have been guilty of adultery
with the within-named Mary Lawrence Cooper
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Court on or before the
Twenty-first day of November One thousand
nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited
or obtaining further time the Petitioner will
proceed and the suit will be heard and de-
termined your absence notwithstanding. A
copy of the petition filed herein may be had
on application to the undersigned free of
charge.
DATED this 28th day of August, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
P. B. KELLY, Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Wellington; by his Town Agent, MAURICE
J. McGRATH, 56 Hunter Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1207 of 1939.
BETWEEN GEORGE HENRY MATTHEWS
Petitioner
And HELENA MATTHEWS Respondent.
TO HELENA MATTHEWS formerly of
Moree in the said State.
TAKE NOTICE that said GEORGE
HENRY MATTHEWS has commenced a suit
against you in this Honorable Court and
has applied for a dissolution of marriage on
the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Honorable Court on or before
the Twenty-third day of November One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the
event of your not doing so within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on appli-
cation to the undersigned free of charge.
DATED this 28th day of August, 1939.
(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. ALISTER JOHNSON & McDONALD,
Solicitors for the Petitioner, 17 Bolton Street,
Newcastle; by their Agents, N. CHERRY
WILLIS & CORCORAN, Solicitors, Assembly
Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No. 1334 of 1939.
BETWEEN ALFRED ERNEST DOUGLASS
Petitioner
And MURIEL JEAN DOUGLASS Re-
spondent
And ALLAN DEANE Co-respondent.
TO ALLAN DEANE late of Narrabri.
TAKE NOTICE that the said ALFRED
ERNEST DOUGLASS has commenced a suit
against you in this Court and is applying
for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds of
your adultery with the Respondent AND
TTAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of this Court on or before the Twenty-
ninth day of November One thousand nine hun-
dred and thirty-nine and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtain-
ing further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your
absence notwithstanding. A copy of the peti-
tion filed herein may be obtained from the
undersigned free of charge.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of August
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
A. I. ORMSBY Solicitor for Petitioner, 17
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Melbourne
Chatter
Melbourne spent a good deal of its
Sunday listening to the radio for war
news, and the announcement of the
declaration of a “state of war” with Ger-
many, though not unexpected, doubtless
gave all listeners a thrill. Those citizens
old enough to remember the last Great
War can see ahead a vast amount of
home organisation, particularly if matters
grow so grave that Australian soldiers
may have to play their part once again.
Weather for the Caulfield meeting on
Saturday was in alternate layers of rain
and sunshine. The rain storms were so
sharp and sudden that numbers of people
tired of running for shelter after the first
half-dozen shower baths, and finished the
day wet but pleased with the fact that
five favorites had come home.
Bride and ’groom Major and Mrs.
Bruce Steer were there, Mrs. Steer wear-
ing a grey squirrel coat with a matching
grey hat. Among others in fur coats were
Marjorie Clarke, hers also grey squirrel ;
Mrs. Cecil Le Plastrier, in her square-
shouldeed three-quarter length cape ; and
Mrs. Laing-Hay, wearing her ermine coat
while letting her head go summery in
the matter of flowers atop of a small
black hat. Margaret MacLeod wore the
sort of check suit that comes up smiling
in any weather. With it went a navy blue
hat and jungle gloves of leopard-spotted
wool.
Palette prints will be doing the town
this summer. Their gay globules of color
have superseded the age of realism, of
pink cows, blue horses and yellow sea-
snakes. The palette colors in silk and
cotton materials are gorgeous, and their
shapes don’t matter one dab of paint
more or less. At Cann’s show several
palette frocks were shown, always hap-
pily wedded to coats —frivolous boleros,
short jackets, trim-waisted and snugly-
buttoned, or longer coats made in plain
material of some predominating color
used by the artist’s brush. Gored or
pleated skirts were features of these
suits. Frothy white lace blouses will also
have a place in summer wardrobes.
A Mainbocher model may be the
answer to the traveller’s prayer (that’s
if the lower stratum doesn’t crush). Pic-
ture One is of a navy suit with spotted-
in-white lapels and accessories. In Pic-
ture Two the mannequin has removed her
coat and walks the floor in a two-piece
ensemble with the spotted stuff as the
blouse. In Three off comes the flared
skirt; the young woman has changed
her few spots and is spotted all over in
a taffeta frock.
Elaborate “vestment” embroideries in
gold and silver thread were a feature
of the evening gowns, which also showed
metallic lace motifs across the back or
as an implication for grandeur at the
top of the sleeves. Cowls were a trait
in the character of wraps worn after
nightfall. A white crepe evening gown
had a scarf drapery from the right
shoulder with which the mannequin pro-
tected her hair from an imaginary breeze.
Contents of the vacation suitcase in-
cluded a sharkskin tennis frock with but-
tons down both sides of the flared skirt,
some cummerbunds in contrasting colors
to both slacks and jumpers and an ankle-
length Creole skirt which will be as pro-
tective as a tent to a tender skin basking
in the sun on a hot beach.
P.L.C. Old Collegians’ Dramatic Club,
combined with Old Scotch players and
stayers, have booked the University
Union Theatre for September 30 for
what will be the Victorian premiere of
“Dear Octopus.” Our local authoress
Jean Campbell will take the centre of
the stage as the mother whose tentacles
are tightly fastened round each member
of the family. Jack Osboldstone leads
the men as the octopus’s husband, and
Terence Crisp is producing. Alma Syl-
vester is the daughter with a past, and
Dr. Peggy Mackay (Mrs. John Ray since
her last am. dram, performance) is Belle
Schlesinger, no longer young, though she
refuses to believe it.
Last week the National Theatre delved
into the psychological with “The
Offence,” by Mordaunt Shairp, a problem
play of an obsession with an unsatis-
factory ending. Either a murder or a
sudden full stop without the “happy”
tail-off would have been more effective.
The difficulties of the play emphasised
the good work of the cast and of the
producer, Ruth Conabere. Frank Jenkin
did very well as Martin, displaying
emotions with a good sense of balance.
Careful study also was revealed by Ray
Edwards in his portrayal of the father
(a sadistic product of the dark ages).
Myrtle Schnaars, Mabel Harrison,
Dorothy Fox and two children were
among others who assisted. Little Ruth
Gaitskell was Rose, a poor mite in the
terrible black woollen stockings of 1900,
and lan Fairley was the young Martin
of the same period.
lan, who is also known as a
budding male ballet dancer, now
makes a bid for recognition in the
realm of drama. Another hobby, a new
one which his mother, Mrs. Keith Fairley,
does not encourage, is his magpie in-
stinct for hoarding broken china. As
the boy Martin he had to break a vase.
For rehearsals various people gave him
unwanted oddments to practise on. lan
has been saving the pieces, and particu-
larly cherishes handles, spouts and
jaggedy bits that he imagines might be
useful as knife blades.
The National Theatre progresses. An
insurance assessor on a recent visit valued
its possessions at a figure several hun-
dreds of pounds in advance of anything
most members would have guessed at
(but of course insurance assessors are
like that). Costumes alone are a con-
siderable asset; most of them are made
on the premises at St. Peter’s by mem-
bers with a ffair for that sort of thing
who make a present to the club of their
services. Coming productions of the
National Theatre, which seems to enjoy
getting its teeth into something of con-
siderable difficulty, are “Twelfth Night,”
“The Marriage of Figaro” and “Mignon.”
The John Brownlees and pianist Ivor
Newton w'ere in the large audience at
the Malcolm Sargent-Edward Goll con-
cert. Sargent, who wore a white carnation
in his buttonhole, went through the even-
ing with all his usual fire and vitality. If
he would pose for hair-oil ads. he’d make
a fortune. His locks never swoop over
his forehead ; in fact, there is never a
hair out of position on his glossy black
head. The David Rivetts were in the
house; also Adelaide visitor Mrs.
Vaughan Cutten. Mary Browne was a
picturesque young thing in sapphire
velvet from throat to toes. Green as of
emeralds was worn by Madelaine Orr
for her all-enveloping velvet wrap. Lyn-
ette Dickenson encased herself in the
downy softness of ermine in the snowy
season.
Jessie Brookes, only daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Herbert Brookes, recently be-
came engaged to Antony, elder son of
Frank Clarke and his lady. Last week
Jessie managed a few days’ respite from
her liaison work among refugees to visit
Sydney and her fiance. She has a social
service disploma as well as an arts de-
gree, and by nature is particularly well
endowed for jobs that mean contacts and
organisation. As a granddaughter of
Alfred Deakin she has her share of the
family brains, also a sense of humor
which has made her very popular with
all her friends. Athol Shmith photo-
graph.
Mrs. R. W. McKellar (secretary of the
Victorian Women Graduates’ Assoc.)
announces that September 15 is the
closing date for two scholarships. One
is the American Aurelia Henry Rein-
hardt Scholarship, worth 1500 dollars
and tenable in any country but the suc-
cessful candidate’s own. Applicants for
this bursary must be graduates in arts
or science and must send proofs of their
character and personality, a certificate of
health, a photograph taken without a hat
(no glamorising and no disguising!), also
.eight copies of each reference. Last year
before she sailed for Australia to take
charge of Melbourne University
Women’s College Dr. Greta Hort heard
that she had won this scholarship, but
the new country attracted her and she
passed it in.
The second scholarship for members
of the International Federation of Uni-
versity Women is a residential one for
Crosby Hall, Chelsea, a building with
an interesting history. Erected in the
days of Elizabeth at Bishopsgate, it was
moved brick by brick during the reign
of Edward VII. (who took a benevolent
interest in it, as did Queen Mary when
it became a women’s college). For the
four years of the war it was filled with
Belgian refugees. When the International
Federation of Women purchased it a
residential wing was added to house be-
tween 40 and 50 scholars. University
women from 37 countries have con-
tributed towards Crosby Hall. Aus-
tralia is included, and there is an Aus-
tralian room. Some time ago Italy and
Germany withdrew from responsibilities
by order of their Governments. In its
day Czechoslovakia showed a particular
interest, and Dr. Masaryk was a practical
friend of the college.
In the Broothorn photograph is Mar-
jorie Branfill Harrison, of Blackburn,
who recently returned home from her
first trip abroad. While in the British
Isles and Canada she made the acquaint-
ance of a number of her relatives, who
made her welcome to such an extent that
her holiday, originally planned for a few
months, extended to three and a half
years. Her travels embraced both the
Old and the New World. She visited
several European countries, and in Sep-
tember, 1938, toured Italy, where she
found the newspapers published practi-
cally nothing of the European tension
except the bare statement that Chamber-
lain had flown to Germany to meet
Hitler.
In England Miss Harrison had a close-
up of the aura of history when she visited
her uncle, C. H. Harrison, in Gloucester-
shire. His home is an old manor house
at Iron Acton, which was mentioned in
the Doomsday Book. In U.S.A. this
enterprising Australian travelled by Grey-
hound Bus, sitting up all night (she's one
of those lucky people who can sleep any-
where), and seeing the sights during the
day. She deviated to Canada, where she
enjoyed sailing on Lake Ontario. In
England, too, she did an amount of
yachting, usually with the Guards’ Yacht
Club, to which she was introduced by
her cousin, Captain J. E. Harrison, of
the Grenadier Guards, who successfully
skippers his own racing yacht.
Though their honeymoon plans went
awry, as also the prospect of a bungalow
up at Nowshera, N.W.F.P., Jean Ogilvie
and Major George Redvers Dunbar were
safely married at Scots Church and toasted
at a dinner-dance at No. 9 Darling-street.
Originally they had meant to have a
month’s motoring around the country,
for Jean wanted to show Redvers Can-
berra and some koala bears, but a recall
to India gives the couple only a few days
before they sail. Wedding presents, too,
will remain unpacked for an indefinite
period, for Jean expects to be a ‘‘grass
widow” for a few months while her hus-
band attends to the job of work in hand
on an inaccessible Indian frontier.
At the merry wedding reception, where
guests of two generations danced tire-
lessly till the early hours of the morn,
notable speeches were made by H. P.
Ogilvie and by old family friend Robert
Best. The ’groom’s henchmen, “bor-
rowed” from among the bride’s friends,
were Jim Parkes and Cliff Thompson.
Cliff was doing that kind of a job for
the,second time in three weeks, his ser-
vices having been requisitioned by uncle
W. R. Sedon for his wedding earlier in
the month.
A bride who had been much feted
before she trod the aisle of St. John’s
last week to become the central figure in
an all-white wedding group was Lawre
Falkiner. Her ’maids were Joyce Austin,
Pat Clarke and Rosemary Knox. Rose-
maty’s parents, the Robert Knoxes, lent
their home, Greenknowe, for the recep-
tion. The bridegroom, Major Bruce
Steer, of the 2nd Punjab Regiment, had
Colonel Wood, of Bombay, as his best
man. The newly-married pair propose to
leave for India when transport is avail-
able.


GLORIOUS SOUTH AFRICA
SOUTH AFRICA is a land of
perennial sunshine and abiding charm, where
countless delights await the visitor.
Although a country of vast distances, the
principal scenic, historic and industrial districts
can be speedily reached in the utmost comfort
by the renowned South African Railways.
On your next trip to England , travel
one way via “The Cape ” and spend a
short holiday in South Africa.
BLUE FUNNEL AND
SHAW SAVILL
JOINT SERVICE TO
SOUTH AFRICA & ENGLAND
For particulars apply Local Agents any capital city.
/
11“
A
4
m*-
I >N-~
:
TUI
THE
WOMAN'S MIRROR
On Sale Every Wednesday
Is the most popular 68-page woman’s
paper published in the Common-
wealth. It features everything a
woman ought to know. Once you
read it you will never be without it.
Every month six to nine patterns
are given away free for a penny
stamp for postage.
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George Street, Sydney.
Don’t Suffer
with Piles
NO need to suffer the tor-
menting irritation of itching
or bleeding piles when you can
get quick relief by beginning at
once to use Doan's Ointment.
This special pile prescription is
healing and soothing. Even stub-
born cases which have resisted
other treatment quickly yield to
this preparation. Let Doan's
Ointment give you the relief you
so sorely need. Refuse all sub-
stitutes. Get Doan's Ointment
to-day.
Doans Ointment
NORTH OF
TWENTY-EIGHT
The Bradfield Plan
“Q.C.R.”: Dr. Bradfield elaborated at
Townsville the water-supply scheme for
Queensland pastoral districts which he
mentioned some months ago at a Bris-
bane gathering.
He points out that 374,000 sq. miles
of Queensland is used for sheep graz-
ing, and that sheep losses through drought
in 11 years totalled 17,681,000-odd; in
terms of finance, about £8,840,000, or
£BOO,OOO per annum.
The State, he added, owns 95.5 p.c.
of all Q. land, and rental value and
leasehold returns depend largely on water
supply. Artesian bores are steadily
diminishing in flow, and a survey of
western rainfall promises little permanent
relief.
The Bradfield plan, therefore, is to
conserve the waters from the 17,000
square miles of country out of which the
Tully, Herbert, Burdekin and Clarke
rivers flow, join them with those of the
Flinders from a catchment area of 42,000
sq. miles in a series of reservoirs and
carry them across Central Queensland in
a permanent stream from Hughenden to
Windorah, via Longreach and Winton.
The country falls from 1087 ft. above sea-
level at Hughenden to 620 ft. at Long-
reach. The water which it is proposed
to use is floodwater from above the
1400 ft. level, which can be got through
the Divide to the west by gravity.
The bridge-builder estimates that water
could be provided to irrigate 3000 sq.
miles of western country with three or
four waterings p.a., each 6in. deep, fur-
nishing crop sufficient to put western
stations beyond fear of drought.
Dr. Bradfield’s estimate of cost is
£30,000,000, plus accumulation of interest
during construction of dams, canals, etc.,
which would bring the total to
£40,000,000. Interest, at 3| p.c., would
be £1,550,000. He places administration
costs at £75,000, and suggests that the
money be raised on a 60-year loan with
a sinking fund to recoup £175,000 p.a.
Maintenance and other routine charges
he fixes at another £175,000 p.a.
He estimates the water available —rain-
fall on the watersheds is as regular as
clockwork —as sufficient to cover 3200
sq. miles 2ft. deep ; and he proposes to
price water at 10s. per acre foot (272,000
gallons), which would mean £1 per acre
for rights to 2ft. of water per annum
per acre, giving a gross return from rights
of £2,000,000.
Assuming even that the irrigation area
itself were pasture-improved, at least
2,000,000 sheep could be carried on it
permanently, and on the basis of annual
losses it could certainly provide feed,
since the soil is fertile —like many soils
which are not used to their full capacity
because of lack of rainfall —for all the
sheep in Central Queensland in emer-
gency.
The weak point in all such schemes is
the unknown factor ; and there are plenty
of unknown factors to be discovered just
north of Capricorn. But on the figures
the whole thing is well worth investiga-
tion.
The Taylor Patrol
“Ramshackle”: So “Kaloa” main-
tains that it justified its cost (B.
19 /7 / ’39). The final expense-sheet has
not been published, but the Territory’s
surplus appears to have dropped by about
£30,000. Carriers, food and ’plane-
charters run away with a lot of money.
“Kaloa” asserts that the patrol
“knowledgeably and thoroughly” did the
“Any eggs in the nest , mister?”
work of 20 smaller expeditions with
their attendant loss of life, a loss which
he assumes without any grounds.
No qualified surveyor or geologist
accompanied the patrol, so that the
20,000 square miles of fertile plateau
must be the roughest conjecture. With-
out a surveyor or instruments to fix
latitude and longitude and frame the
whole area, discoveries of the source of
the Sepik and other things are of little
importance. How did the patrol know
when it was near the Dutch and Papuan
borders, which are unmarked in those
parts? Mountain peaks are misleading
landmarks. Witness the controversy
over the peaks in the photos, brought
back by the Houston-Clydesdale Everest
expedition.
The whole patrol seems rather
superfluous in view of the fact that the
Mount Hagen area, scene of an earlier
and much-publicised patrol, is still closed
to all but the mission and one miner,
who has prior squatter’s rights. It would
seem only reasonable to finish the “peace-
ful penetration” of one area before start-
ing on another.
The Administration, apparently panic-
stricken at the prospect of an unbalanced
Budget, is heavily retrenching the
outdoor staff of the Lands and Public
Works Departments, men engaged in
productive work, yet every boat brings
more and more cadets —potential patrol
officers. And the Administrator char-
tered a ’plane to fly from Lae to the
Sepik to greet the returning patrol, pre-
sumably at the usual charter rate of £6O
an hour.
“Q.C.R.”: To celebrate his twenty-
fifth anniversary as State member for
Mackay (N.Q.), residents have handed
Forgan Smith a cheque for £lOOO. He
turned it over to the University to pro-
vide an annual bursary for the children
of poor Mackay residents. Forgan’s
career has been singular. In his early
days he was about the least assertive man
in the House, but he had not been there
more than a term or so before he en-
joyed a special position with all parties.
Many a fight between Opposition and
Government he stopped by means of a
little well-timed private discussion. Still
a poor man, he gets credit on all sides
for honesty of purpose and disinterested-
ness.
rss * :? ❖
“Benn”: One of the best-known iden-
tities of the North is Jessie Taylor, one
of the few women shire clerks in Queens-
land. Shire-clerk Taylor was respon-
sible for one of the neatest rejoinders to
departmental red-tape ever recorded. The
Main Roads Commission wrote to her
regarding a certain workman. She re-
plied that he had died. Weeks went past.
Came another letter: “What about that
workman?” Wrote shire-clerk Taylor:
“Still dead and likely to remain so.”
The department didn’t write again.
“Clayfield”: Brisbane’s million-pound
bridge is well on its way to completion.
Its last panel will be in place in October
and ready for the laying of the road. It
is expected to be open for traffic in June,
1940.
* * * *
“Kaloa”: Destruction of Carpenters
building in Rabaul by fire is a loss to
history. The building was a survival
from the German time. It housed the
Expropriation Board. The E.B. took ovei
German properties, and all the irreplace-
able records of that time and many of
the German time have gone up in smoke.
Most of them should have been removed
to security in one of the national libraries
years ago.
* * * *
“Ross Creek”: The kind of fishing
they get off the N.Q. coast is enough
to make the biggest Sydney Harbor hook-
heaver leave by the next boat. One
party of 25 Townsvilleans came back
from Rib Reef with 343 fish, the heaviest
251 b. and total weight over 16001 b. Things
like that happen to southern fishermen
only in dreams.
“Wyndham Willie”: Dr. Isaac Stein-
berg has interested the Westralian Gov-
ernment in his plan for settling Jewish
refugees in the Kimberleys. He says Mr.
Willcock, the Premier, “has no objection to
tbe necessary approach being made to the
Commonwealth,” but wants direct repre-
sentation of his Government at points
where the colonists are recruited, the
officer to have power of veto. Also,
it wishes to station one or two Govern-
ment officers at the settlement to super-
vise “development,” all such officers to
be paid by the settlers. The Premier
further proposes that the refugees should
provide all their own public facilities for
the first three years, and that financial
responsibility should be guaranteed by
Westralian Jews. Group settlement of
foreigners of any sort in remote parts
of Australia should be discouraged.
There are enough strangers there already.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Probate Jurisdiction.
IN the matter of the estate of DANIEL PAT-
RICK RYAN (commonly known as Daniel
Joseph Ryan), late of Hurstville, in the State
of New South Wales, Company Manager,
deceased, intestate.
PURSUANT to the Wills Probate and
Administration Act 1898-1938, the Testator’s
Family Maintenance and Guardianship of In-
fants Ast 1916-1938, and the Trustee Act 1925-
1938. NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that
every creditor or other person having any
debt, claim or demand upon, against or affect-
ing the estate, or being otherwise interested in
the property or assets of the abovenamed de-
ceased, who died at Sydney on or about the
Second day of February, 1939, intestate, and
Letters of Administration of whose estate and
effects were duly granted by the Supreme Court
of New South Wales in its Probate Jurisdiction
on the Twenty-eighth day of July, 1939, to
THE UNION TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, of 2 O’Connell
Street, Sydney, is hereby required to send full
particulars in writing of such debt, claim or
demand upon the said estate or in respect of
the said property or assets or any part thereof
to the said Union Trustee Company of Aus-
tralia, Limited, on or before the Eighth day
of November, 1939, at the expiration of which
time the said Union Trustee Company of Aus-
tralia, Limited, as such Administrator of the
said estate, will proceed to administer the said
estate and to convey and distribute the said
property and assets of the said deceased to
or among the first cousins of the said deceased
of whose kinship the said company has notice
and whom it believes to be the only persons
entitled thereto, having regard only to the
debts, claims and demands of which the said
company then has notice. And further notice
is hereby given that the- said Union Trustee
Company of Australia, Limited, will not be
liable for the property and assets or any part
thereof so conveyed or distributed, to any
person of whose debt, claim or demand it
shall not have had notice at the time of such
conveyance or distribution.
DATED this Twenty-eighth day of August,
One thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
For the Union Trustee Company of Australia,
Limited,
J. G. H. SHIPWAY, Manager.
JOHNSON & SENDALL, Proctors, Goul-
burn; by their Agents, DUNCAN, BARRON
& CO., Solicitors, 81 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOIJTH WALES.
A. E. COLLINS PTY. LTD. Plaintiff
Against ROBERT FRANCIS PRICE De-
fendant.
TO ROBERT FRANCIS PRICE formerly of
Narrabri in the State of New South Wales
Storekeeper.
TAKE NOTICE that an order has been
made dispensing with personal service of the
writ of summons issued herein on the 11th
of A.ugust 1939 against you and ordering that
in lieu thereof service of the said writ be
effected by the publication in the Sydney
Morning Herald newspaper and the Bulletin
newspaper of this notice AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that unless you enter
an appearance to the said writ on or before
the 30th of September next the plaintiff will
be at liberty to proceed to judgment. A copy
of the said writ may be had on application at
the office of the undersigned.
DATED this Twenty-ninth day of August.
BRAUND & WATT, 5-7 O’Connell Street.
Sydney; Town Agents for MESSRS. HAROLD
.WHEELER & BRUCE, Solicitors, Narrabri.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
No.. 1452 of 1939.
BETWEEN AGNES GEORGINA DUNCAN
(formerly Agnes Georgina Richards) of
Lismore in the State of New South Wales
wife of Frederick David Stanley Duncan
of Ballina in the said State Labourer
And the said FREDERICK DAVID
STANLEY DUNCAN of Ballina in the
said State Labourer.
TO FREDERICK DAVID STANLEY
DUNCAN of Ballina in the State of New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the said AGNES
GEORGINA DUNCAN has commenced a
suit against you in this Honorable Court and
is applying for dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion by you for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the
proper office of this Honorable Court on or
before the First day ,of December One thou-
sand nine hundred and thirty-nine and in the
event of your not so doing within the time
limited or obtaining further time the Petitioner
will proceed and the suit be heard and deter-
mined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned Solicitor free
of charge.
DATED this First day of September, One
thousand nine hundred and thirty-nine.
(L.S.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
OAKES & OAKES, Solicitors for Petitioner,
Lismore; by their Agents, D. R. HALL & CO.,
91 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
MARY FIELD, wife of JAMES FIELD,
last known address Christchurch, New Zealand,
sister of ANN CONDON, of Corner of Peel
and Cambridge Streets, Collingwood, in the
State of Victoria. The said Mary Field or her
children are requested to communicate im*
mediately with P. J. RIDGEWAY, Solicitor.
379 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ESTATE PATRICK NEARY, late of Leaf-
month, Victoria, Australia, Farmer, deceased.—
INFORMATION is sought as to the where*
abouts of THOMAS ADAMS, who it ia
believed lived in Kalgoorlie, Western Aus*
tralia, MARGARET BEHN, of Sydney, New
South Wales, and ELIZABETH McDONALD,
of Christchurch, New Zealand, being children
of the late Margaret Adams.
CUTHBERT, MORROW, MUST & SHAW-
Solicitors, Ballarat, Victoria, Australia.
SECURITY MADE
SECURE
In uncertain times investors —and particularly small
investors who cannot afford any loss—seek to dis-
cover means of placing their savings in a secure
position
THE
to
2'o
LOAN
OF THE
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
MATURING '
Ist SEPTEMBER, 1952
NOW OPEN
OFFERS THESE FACILITIES
• IT GIVES A SECURITY SECOND TO NONE.
• IT IS BACKED BY THE WHOLE RATING RESOURCES
OF THE BOARD.
• IT CARRIES THE UNCONDITIONAL GUARANTEE OF
THE GOVERNMENT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
• SUBSCRIPTIONS MAY BE MADE BY INSTALMENTS UP
TO DECEMBER, 1939.
• INTEREST DATES IMMEDIATELY FROM THE TIME OF
LODGMENT OF ANY SUBSCRIPTION.
• Full particulars, Prospectuses and Application Forms ob-
tainable from any branch of the Commonwealth Bank of
Australia, Bank of New South Wales, or the Board's Head
Office, 45 Reservoir St., Sydney, and branches, and
Members of recognised Stock Exchanges.
• The Loan has been underwritten by J. B. Were & Son
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne), Melbourne,
Sydney, London.
EARLY APPLICATION IS ESSENTIAL
APPLY AT ONCE
A MIXED GRILL.
“Writing off capital,” i.e., charging up
the interest to taxpayers instead of
customers —was the politician’s sovereign
recipe for making insolvent Government
railways pay. It hasn’t worked in
Queensland, where £28,000,000 of capital
was written off in 1932. In Victoria
last year the Railway Department went
another £964,000 to the bad ; and a whole
£30,000,000 was written off there.
* * * *
The idea of one Parliament with
supreme and unchallengeable powers is
working in many minds. One of Vic-
toria’s Young Nationalists tells The Bul-
letin that “the views expressed in ‘One
Parliament One Destiny' (B. 16/8/’39)
“correspond entirely with the views ex-
pressed by” his organisation, and quotes
a plank of its platform:
Amendment of the Constitution of the
Commonwealth to give full legislative
powers to the Federal Parliament, which
should delegate to State or provincial
bodies control of matters of local import-
ance.
The same mail brought a report of a
speech by Bagot, the South Aus-
tralian M.L.C., on his proposal for a
convention to shape constitutional
amendments designed to clarify and
strengthen a sinfully out-of-date instru-
ment of government.
* * * *
A Newcastle milk-oh has been fined
for selling milk at 7d. a quart, maximum
local price, fixed by one of those boards,
being He pleaded that he couldn’t
charge 6Jd. because there are no farthings
and that if he sold at he would lose
money. He might have added that he
merely followed what has been general
practice in the bread trade since a very
expensive Commonwealth Wheat Com-
mission, taken over by a stupid Sydney
Government, recommended farthing
prices. Boards and commissions spin
words by the mile, but in these matters
they lack horse-sense.
“C.R.”: Can any Australian business-
man equal the record for air travel of
A. V. Hammens, of Adelaide? His last
trip between Melbourne and the City of
Churches completed his first 100,000
miles. They were all done over Aus-
tralian National Airlines.
* * * *
A thrill ran through the breasts of the
scientists assembled at the Physics Con-
gress at Melbourne Uni. when the deep
voice of Lord Rutherford rang through
the lecture hall. It came from a gramo-
phone record put on after a lecture by
Prof. Laby on the scientific work of the
deceased physicist. The speaker was
found to be pleading before a German
university for friendlier relations between
British and German scientists.
* * * *
“Bumpkin”: Some people in Mel-
bourne have conscientious objections to
the shooting of birds released from
traps, and some of the shooters have
unconscious ones apparently, as many
prefer to have their exploits recorded in
the press under pseudonyms. The former
got one in on the latter on a recent
Saturday by cutting a hole in an aviary
of 1000 starlings which a shooting club
had been collecting for a competition.
Twenty-pounds’ worth of birds fluttered
skyward, and the members had to con-
tent themselves with potting sparrows.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The decision to remove the
plaster statues from the Fitzroy Gardens
in Melbourne is stupid, but it will lead
to good if artistically better opes are
substituted, and there is an inexpensive
and easy way to do it. When the State
Theatre was inaugurated in Melbourne
Stuart Doyle imported plaster moulds of
some of the most famous Greek statues.
He made excellent use of them, and
patrons of the State can now let their
eyes drift from the pleasing contours
of Joan Crawford to the equally pleasing
lines of the Venus de Medici, the discus
thrower and Adonis —infinitely better dis-
played and lighted, incidentally, than the
sculpture in the National Gallery. The
moulds were sold to a Melbourne build-
ing contractor, and if they have not been
broken up fresh casts could be made
and set up in the Gardens, where they
should be a delight to the layman and
an inspiration to the student.
* * * *
Victorian gastronomes ought to be
grateful to William Angliss, the wholesale
butcher, who has celebrated his accession
to the knightage by presenting Melbourne
with its first University of Good Cook-
ing. The culinary academy will be ac-
commodated in buildings costing £21,986,
and another £lO,OOO will be spent on
pots and saucepans. There will be 250
undergraduate bakers, 100 pastrycooks
and 40 potential chefs, while several hun-
dred young tradesmen will be enabled to
undergo a refresher course in butcher-
ing and meat preparation. Altogether, the
roll-call will be close on a thousand.
* * * *
“Ze do”: N.S.W.’s Western Lands
Commission has installed a private tele-
phone line, outside P.M.G. control, for
free use by the men of the border patrol
along 350 miles of the rabbit fence.
There is no link with other telephone
systems, but the beneficiaries won’t worry
about that. The cost was £2OOO. Twenty
thousand was the estimate of the Federal
Public Works when a normal party-line
system was suggested should be given
the district.
* * * *
In 1892 a young Frenchman, Paul
Wenz, reached Australia in search of
adventure. He was from Rheims, where
his family was in the wool trade. As a
jackeroo he struck an 18 months’ drought
on the Murrumbidgee. He then went to
the Gulf Country, slipped across to South
America and returned to settle down on
a Lachlan run. He married an Australian
girl, tended his flocks, had an interest in
a Sydney wool firm, and paid several
visits to France, but was always pleased
to return to his adopted homeland. Paul
Wenz is dead at Nanima station in the
Forbes (N.S.W.) district, in his sixty-ninth
year. A good Australian by adoption,
he introduced Australia to readers in
the land of his birth. As “Paul War-
rego” he wrote many Australian stories
and articles for “Revue de Paris’’ and
other magazines, while French publishers
issued ten full-length books—novels and
collections of short stories —by him, all
Australian in subject matter. Apart from
these works, he translated a South Seas
novel by Jack London, and wrote a book
in English, Diary of a New Churn, pub-
lished in 1908. A fine figure of a man,
Paul Wenz frequently dropped into the
Bulletin office for a chat with old
friends.


etu
•i
[T
{Doctors say that it your Hormone Glands and
nerves function well you will be vigorous and
I virile. 821 GLAND TONIC TABLETS con-
tain genuine glandular extract. Will defi-
nitely rejuvenate you. A safe and sure remedy
for loss of vitality. The price of this won-
derful treatment is 10/6. Call or write
direct for particulars of this MODERN
TREATMENT.
CHEMISTS, 319 George Street, Sydney.
MACQUARIE GROVE
FLYING and GLIDER
SCHOOL PTY., LTD.
CAMDEN, N.S.W.—’Phone: Camden 13.
OFFICIAL OPENING.
The public is invited to attend the official
opening: of the new Hangars and Work-
shops by the Minister of Civil Aviation,
the Hon. J. V. Fairbairn, M.H.R., on
Saturday, September 30, in conjunction
with the Royal Aero Club Aerial Race
Day.
Dance in hangar at night, for which
tickets are available at 15/- each,
including drinks.
Receive flying instruction at the company’s own
ideally situated aerodrome at Camden.
Training ab initio to Commercial Pilot’s
Licence.
Write jor particulars.
E. MACARTHUR ONSLOW, Manager,
Box 4, Camden.
THE FLYING COLUMN
The Flying Doctors.
The first practical move to improve
conditions for the care of the sick in
inland Australia was made by Rev. John
Flynn, of the Australian Inland Mission.
He set about establishing nursing centres
staffed by two fully-trained nursing
sisters. However, there still remained
the problem of long and arduous trips
to hospital. Flynn conceived the idea
of a doctor at a central base and of aero-
planes bringing help to sick and injured,
with wireless as the means of maintain-
ing communication between base and
outposts.
The aeroplane offered very little diffi-
culty in its adaptation to the service, but
the wireless problem was more difficult.
Many years were spent before Alf
Traeger, a radio amateur whose services
had been enlisted, at last developed the
pedal transceiver in 1928.
In May, 1928, it was decided to estab-
lish a base at Cloncurry (Q.) on an ex-
perimental basis. It soon proved of
inestimable value to the people living in
this large territory.
The benefit and value to the outback
and the practicability of the aerial medi-
cal service were soon recognised in other
parts of Australia. For the purpose of
extending and firmly establishing the
work originally undertaken by the A.1.M.,
a new organisation, Australian Aerial
Medical Services, was formed in 1934.
The objects of this organisation are
to establish flying doctor bases at strategic
FLYING DOCTOR AMBULANCE SERVICE.
points—each State to be responsible for
the maintenance of its own base—to form
a chain around the “dead heart” of Aus-
tralia.
Bases have been established recently
at Wyndham, Port Hedland and Kal-
goorlie in W.A., Broken Hill in N.S.W.,
and at Alice Springs in Central Aus-
tralia. Each base has complete hos-
pital and nursing facilities, a qualified
medical practitioner, an ambulance ’plane
equipped with stretcher, and under the
care of a skilled pilot with wide know-
ledge of the outback, also the powerful
base radio transmitting and receiving
station, with a competent radio operator
in charge. The ingenious pedal radio sets
are installed at strategic points throughout
the doctor’s immense practice. To-day
the sets 1 include two-way telephony and
cover distances up to 500 miles.
In times of emergency medical advice
can be asked for and received from the
mother station. In some cases the doctor
may decide that the patient can be treated
by relatives or friends, who report pro-
gress and receive instructions by wire-
less. In cases such as this the expense
of hundreds of miles of flying may be
avoided.
Apart from the'medical calls that are
received'at the base, the radio equipment
is also used for commercial purposes.
Messages can be sent from any of the
outstations to any part of Australia or
the world.
Approximate maintenance cost of each
base is £4OOO per annum, and towards
the expense of the Broken Hill centre the
N.S.W. Government makes an annual
grant of £lOOO.
A. M. S.
The New Moth Minor.
The first Moth was born at Stag
Lane (England) in 1925, a biplane
with a 60-h.p. Cirrus. Geoff De Havil-
land did the air frame. In the next few
years London-Australia records were
broken with successive models—Hinkler
and Amy Johnson each flew one. The
R.A.F. and the R.A.A.F. adopted the
Moths as training machines, and most
of the later generations of flying men in
the services made their first hops in them.
The new D.H.94, the latest Moth
Minor, carries 90 h.p. in a very different
type of Gipsy power plant from the
original, though the original designers are
still responsible for both ’plane and
engine. No more is the Moth a biplane
—a change was vital since biplanes have
joined the dodo. In the new bus a low-
wing monoplane design has been adopted,
giving wonderful visibility.
The wings are built on box spars, ply-
wood covered. The 16 ribs of the Warren
girders in each outer plane are
glued. The wings are in three parts, built
for folding, trailing-edge flaps being
arranged to hinge upwards on the rear
spar. The flaps are spruce and fabric
with steel-tube trailing edges. Outer wings
are fixed to the centre section by a verti-
cal hinge at the after spar and two hold-
ing bolts on the front spar. The hand
bell-crank lever which withdraws the bolts
will not work till the folding flap is raised
and will not remain unlocked when the
flap is down. The position of the bolts
can be seen by a glance at the top of the
wings.
There is a split-flap air brake under
the fuselage in place of old-type flaps.
It works mechanically by lever and spring
from the front cockpit. The fuselage is
a clean-lined box job, with spruce skele-
ton and stern post. The wheels are 4 x 8
Dunlops with Girling cable-operated
double brakes.
The engine is a four-cylinder Gipsy,
cylinders inverted in line, air-cooled, with
vibration damped out by rubber-oh-shear
mounting. Its capacity is 3.759 litres.
There are two Am-al fuel pumps, and the
magneto is B.T.H. duplex with an impulse
unit. Fuel tank and oil tank are well
isolated with mild-steel, fireproof bulk-
heads. Everything is accessible car-
burettor (Zenith), tickler, and pump-
priming lever can be reached through
the cowling without raising it. All tanks
are welded aluminium. The petrol gauge
can be seen clearly from each cockpit,
and the petrol cock is in front.
There is seating for two —provision for
dual control in training models —with a
luggage rack behind the rear seat. Seats
are well shielded with single-piece screens.
They are aluminium pressings with
leather upholstery, constructed to allow
of the use of seat-type parachutes. The
folded width of the machine is only 12ft.
With a load up of 4501 b., including
luggage, the cruising range is about 300
miles at a speed of 100 m.p.h.
British testers say the machine can be
flown with hands and feet off almost
indefinitely, and the stall is without
danger to any pilot with the least ex-
perience.
A newer type with enclosed cabin and a
little more speed will shortly be on the
market, but the present open-cabin type
is selling at £575 in England. It is a pity
the machine has not a little more range.
Otherwise, with some slight modifications,
it would be excellent for Australian
private-owner conditions.
E. D.
“D.8.K.”: The principle of composite
aircraft such as the Short-Mayo Maia-
Mercury is by no means new. As long
ago as May, 1916, a similar combination
was tested at the R.N.A.S. experimental
seaplane station at Felixtowe, England.
A Bristol Bullet (80-h.p. Gnome engine)
was carried for the take-off by the Porte
“baby” flying-boat, designed by Squadron
Commander J. C. Porte. Pilot of the
Bullet was Flight-Lieut. M. J. Day,
and Porte himself handled the f.-b.,
engined with three Rolls-Royce Eagle
engines. The Bullet was secured on the
flying-boat by two crooks over the under-
carriage axle, the wheels resting in a
shallow trough, with a quick release hook
attached to the rear of the fuselage.
The tail release was slipped at a height
of 1000 ft. After a slight drop the little
Bristol Bullet climbed away and landed
at Martlesham Heath.
* * * *
“A.W.P.”: The radio compasses which
A.W.A. is installing in A.N.A., Airlines
of Australia, and Guinea Airways ’planes
serve a double purpose—position can be
determined without landmarks or the
gadget may be used as a homing device.
The carrier of any broadcasting station
within range can be used as a guide ;
any variation from the course is indicated
orally or visually.
* * * *
“Ek Dum”: The report of the British
Civil Aviation Department for 1938
shows little advance in the number of
registered civil aircraft during the year
—3197 to 3260, despite the fact that air-
craft miles flown increased from
10,773,000 to 13,556,000 for U.K. and
associated overseas lines alone. The
effect of the new mail rate is evident from
the increase of mail ton-miles from
3,873,000 to 9,335,000 in a single year.
Inside the U.K. 3,267,000 air miles were
flown by commercial lines. The internal
routes cover about 5300 miles, and the
passengers carried totalled 147,000. Com-
mercial pilots in the Empire numbered
2200, an increase of fewer than 300, and
private pilots increased from 7552 in
1937 to 8700 last year. Accidents were
halved, and were less than in any year
since 1933 —one killed to every 4,500,000
passenger miles flown on regular services,
and one fatal accident to every 3,400,000
air miles.
*** . *
“Zedo”: Imperial Airways and Air
France are combining their London-Paris
services. Hitherto Air France ’planes
have left throughout the day at hourly
intervals and LA. machines —much larger
—every two hours. The joint services
now will dispatch 20 ’planes per
day in summer and 14 in winter.
Tickets will be interchangeable, and
passengers able to take the first
vacant seat, English or French. Sixty
per cent, of receipts will go to Imperial
Airways and 40 p.c. to the French, who
will increase the size of their ’planes next
year.
sic * * *
“Duntroon”: Mysterious fellows, our
civil service heads! Although ’planes
zoom over Canberra every day, and their
bumping can be heard for miles as they
bound about amid the tussock-grass pad-
dock which officialdom is pleased to call
an aerodrome, the panjandrums have
not yet convinced themselves that flying
has arrived as a normal means of trans-
port. It takes little over an hour to
reach Sydney from Canberra in the
Douglas, and the Melbourne-Canberra
journey is just over two hours. The cost
is less by air, counting in sleeper, meals,
etc., than it is by train. But a civil ser-
vant who wishes to travel by air must
secure special permission from the head
of his department, and then dares the
journey at his own personal risk. No
compensation for his widow if the ’plane
hits a radio mast or breaks in two on
one of Civil Aviation’s ’dromes.
* * * *
“Nine-Ack”: The Curtiss-Wright Co.
of U.S.A. has developed electrically-
operated reversible-pitch propellers to
increase the manoeuvrability of large
flying-boats on water. A four-engined
flying-boat using these propellers is able
to turn in a very small space when the
propellers on one side are pulling for-
ward and those on the other side run-
ning in reverse pitch. It is possible that
Illustrating how the reversible-pitch pro-
peller can aid the manoeuvrability of
flying-boats on the water.
the principle may be developed in re-
ducing the landing run of large land
machines also, but care will be needed
to see that the machine is firmly on
ground before the pitch is reversed, be-
cause the absence of air flow over the
wings may cause trouble. Cooling of
air-cooled engines may also be some-
thing of a problem if manoeuvring for
any length of time on water, as with
reversed pitch the air will be blown
away from the cylinders instead of
through them.
* * * *
“Cash-on-hand”: New pay schedules
for Australian commercial pilots provide
for £l2 per week for captains and £6
per week for second officers, plus ss.
per hour for both classes when flying.
This should give a normal week’s earn-
ings of about £lB for captains and £l2
for second pilots on the basis of 25 hours’
flying. It sounds generous, but the rates
are half those paid to officers in charge
of similar machines for much shorter
hours under easier and less responsible
conditions in the United States, and it
must be remembered that a captain’s
working life is a short one —he can expect
to retire before he reaches 50 —and there
is no pension provision.
* * * *
“Aileron”: Aotearoa, the first of the
21-ton flying-boats for the Tasman ser-
vice, made a leisurely 12-day trip from
London to Auckland. She is much on
the lines of the Empire flying-boats on
the Sydney-Singapore run, and seems to
have the same easy handling qualities.
On her final lap, she broke the Sydney-
Auckland record of 9| hours made by
the Centaurus in 1937, cutting it to seven
hours 48 minutes.


RESULTS A CERTAINTY
Tell Them All Through
St. George’s Hue., St. George’s Tee., Perth
Half the
pleasure
of listening is lost when
valves are too weak to
drive out Tone Bogy
RE-VALVE WITH
i
Sealed for your protection
RADIO NEWS.
DON B. KNOCK'S PAGE
New Valves.
Among the new Radiotron valves
announced by A. W. Valve Co. in “Radio-
tronics,” No. 99, are several in the 1.4-
volt dry cell series. First in importance
is the IQS-GT, a Bantam beam power
tetrode having a 1.4-volt filament. Its
characteristics somewhat resemble those
of type ICS-G, but the IQS-GT oper-
ates with a considerably smaller grid
bias and is therefore more sensitive.
Type IQS-GT may also be operated
satisfactorily with overbiased conditions,
giving an appreciable reduction in B
battery drain without serious increase in
distortion. The characteristics are:
Filament voltage (D.C.)* .. ..1.4 volts
Filament current .. .. ..0.1 ampere
Maximum overall length .. ..3 5-16 in.
Maximum diameter .. .. .. 1 9-32 in.
Bulb T-9
Base .. .. Intermediate shell octal 7-pin
Power Amplifier—Class A.
Operating Conditions and Characteristics —
Plate voltage (max.) .. 90 volts
Screen voltage (max.) .. 90 volts
Grid voltage .. .. —4.5 volts
Plate current .. .. 9.5 milliamperes
Screen current .. .. 1.6 milliamperes
Transconductance .. .. 2100 micromhos
Load resistance .. .. 8000 ohms
Total harmonic distortion 7.5 per cent.
Power output .. .. 0.27 watt
Pin Connections —
Pin I—No connection.
Pin 2—Filament +
Pin 3 —Plate
Pin 4—Screen.
Pin s—Grid.5 —Grid.
Pin 6 —No connection.
Pin 7 —Filament
Pin B—No connection.
(Pin numbers are according to R.M.A. system.)
Operating Position —
Vertical or horizontal —no restrictions.
* The filament is designed for operation from
a dry battery of which the voltage on load
does not exceed 1.54 volts.
Other valves are IA7-GT, a Bantam equiva-
lent of type IA7-G, 1.4-volt pentagrid.; IDB-GT,
a Bantam diode-triode-power-output-pentode
with a 1.4-volt filament; IHS-GT, a Bantam
equivalent of type IHS-G, 1.4-volt diode-high-
mu-triode; INS-GT, a Bantam equivalent of
type INS-G, 1.4-volt R.F. pentode; 6AG7, a
video beam power amplifier for television re-
ceivers ; 50L6-GT, a Bantam beam power
tetrode with characteristics identical to those of
type 25L6-G, but having a 50-volt 0.15-ampere
heater for series-heater operation; 893, a water-
cooled triode having a plate dissipation of
20kw. and a filament suitable for three- or six-
phase operation; 1624, a transmitting beam
power amplifier with a fast-heating (2.5-volt
2-ampere) coated filament, and a maximum
plate dissipation of 25 watts, for use in mobile
equipment; 2050 and 2051, gas-filled tetrodes of
the indirectly-heated, hot cathode type, for grid-
controlled rectifier service.
Changes in ratings or operating data have
been made in the following types: IA7-G,
IG4-G, IG6-G, which may now be mounted
in any position.
The newly-released types, IA7-GT, IHS-GT,
INS-GT, IQS-GT, may also be mounted in
any position.
V. C.
What's What in Radio.
A new broadcasting station, 6TZ, at
Dardanup, near Bunbury, W.A., will
shortly be opening up. Nicholson’s, the
co. which operates 6PR, is responsible
and will relay programmes from the
Perth station. The new station, designed
by A.W.A., will open with power rated
at 500 watts in the aerial, with provision
for an increase to lkw. The radiating
system is a quarter-wave lattice steel
tower, 183 ft. high, coupled to the trans-
mitting house by a buried co-axial trans-
mission line, in conjunction with an
extensive symmetrically-laid earth system.
Modulation system is class B, ensuring
high fidelity, and a peak-limiting ampli-
fier is included.
* * * *
Radio licenses in force in Australia at
the end of July numbered 1,136,689.
There were 2103 experimental licenses.
* * * *
The radio-telephone service between
Australia and M.L. is now open between
10 a.m. and 8 p.m. E.S.T., Mondays to
Saturdays.
* * * *
The Carpenter motor vessel Rabaul
was recently fitted by A.W.A. with the
latest-type valve radio transmitter, re-
placing the older form of spark trans-
mitter. After September this year spark
transmission generally will be forbidden
under the 1938 Cairo International Con-
vention ruling.
Considerations for
Constructors.
In the course of experimental work
with radio and electrical apparatus
of all kinds, many economical and
time-saving ideas are unearthed. Con-
structional readers are invited to sub-
mit contributions for this section.
“D.8.K.”: Illustrated is a safe and
sure method of guying a radio mast. If
ordinary pegs are used in relatively soft
soil, sooner or later they will give as the
mast strains in windy weather. Better
way is to bury a length of 3in. by 3in.
hardwood about 3ft. deep as shown.
* * * *
“A.P.W.”: The constructor finds
plenty of use for old-type valve sockets,
those of the base-board mounting types
being particularly handy for experi-
mental set-ups. Where such sockets have
strip contacts locked through the mould-
ing by bolts, make sure before using the
sockets that the bolts are well tightened
up. Erratic behavior of many a re-
ceiver has been caused by loose contacts
because of slack bolts in valve sockets.
* * * *
“F.H.N.”: Aluminium is specially
favored by amateur constructors owing
to the ease with which it can be worked
and its screening efficiency. But although
it can be bent, drilled and adapted to any
design, by reason of its softness marks
and scratches on the surface often spoil
the appearance of the finished apparatus.
The following method is useful in
getting a frosted effect: all that is re-
quired is one pound of caustic soda and
a gallon of water. An earthenware con-
tainer is best for mixing the dip, as the
solution is very corrosive. The water
should be heated to about 120 deg. Fahr.
Add the soda to the water and stir
with a stick till it is dissolved. The
metal-work should first be thoroughly
cleaned and then dipped in the
solution for a few seconds, then re-
moved and washed immediately in warm
water. Rinsing with cold water after
this will remove all traces of the dip.
Dry off in warm air—over a gas-ring or
before a fire. If heavy frosting is needed,
add a pound of common salt to the
solution before dipping the aluminium.
Rubber gloves are an asset in the pro-
cess, or a pair of long-nosed pliers can
be used to hold the work while dipping.
The solution must not be allowed to
touch the skin. When disposing of the
dip, dilute it thoroughly with water, and
if the drainage system of the house is
used to pour it away, flush through with
more water to remove all traces of the
fluid.
* * * *
“VK6WZ”: Not all meters are suit-
able for mounting on metal panels.
Writer had the experience of an internal
short from the mechanism to a mount-
ing bolt (moulded into the case) which
nearly wrecked the instrument. For
transmitter work it is advisable to in-
sulate such metal from the panel or else
use meters in which mounting is by
means of bolts passed through the rim.
The metal then in contact with the
earthed panel is well away from live
parts.
Radio Comment.
“D.8.K.”: The Philips Valve Co. has
a word to say in connection with Euro-
pean valve types (B. 9/ 8 / ’39): “Although
we are not bringing into Australia the
large quantity of European valves we did
in the past, we have certainly not re-
stricted the entry or marketing of out-
standing European developments so far
as valves are concerned. As witness of
this we manufacture at Camperdown
(N.S.W.) such types as 6.3 v. steep slope
pentode type EL3N (both octal and P
base), quite a recent development from
overseas; battery octode type KK2,
available in both octal and P base; bat-
tery power output pentode type KL4,
available in both octal and P base ; and
6.3 v. A.C. octode type EK2, available in
octal and P base. Our plans are to manu-
facture the latest development of duo-
diode variable mu pentode under the
type designation of EBF2, as well as the
variable mu R.F. pentode EFB, in our
own Australian works, and as other out-
standing developments in receiving valves
are available from overseas laboratories
we will weigh the possibilities of intro-
ducing them to this market.”
* * * *
“R.G.H.”: At 8.31 p.m. on 13/8/’39
1 heard the aeradio station at Lord Howe
Island testing on 45.5 metres. Signal was
R 8 and Q 5, the speaker calling Sydney.
He mentioned that a 35.5-metre trans-
mitter had been completed and tested,
and a schedule was arranged for 10.10
p.m. the same night. The station closed
down at 8.34 p.m.
Amateur Chatter.
An American amateur made a 56mc.
spiral rod oscillator using two 35Ts in
push-pull. Different materials were in-
serted in the field of the spiral, and it
was found that ordinary bakelite boiled.
Hard rubber and ceramic reached the
same temperature, being warm to the
touch. From this it is deducted that hard
rubber should be as good as ceramic at
high frequencies so long as it is not sub-
jected to moisture. The material known
as WT/22 (loaded ebonite) is therefore
as good R.F. insulation as is needed for
general work, with the advantage that it
is easily tooled.
Frank Brandon, now located at Q.E.A.
flying-boat base, Karumba, N.Q., and
formerly VKSFB, has been allocated the
callsign VK4DZ and can be heard on
7015 kc. nightly. Daylight conditions in
his location are poor at present for
southern communication.
Proof that the lower frequencies are
rapidly returning to good DX conditions
is shown further by the reception of
European signals on 7mc. in the late
afternoons. On 16/8/’39, EA7BA in
Spain was heard on telephony at 6.45
p.m. E.A.T. through a heavy barrage of
static. VK7AB, Tasmania, was heard
calling the Spaniard. Static during the
last week has been very intense on 7mc.
and 3.5mc., rather unusual for the winter
season.
VK2LZ, Blue Mountains, got through
to VK2VU, Singleton, N.S.W., on 56mc.
’phone on 20/8/”39. Two-way communi-
cation on the u.-h.-f. channel was not
possible owing to rebuilding of the trans-
mitter at VK2VU, but a QSO was con-
ducted using 3.5mc. at the Singleton end.
The 56mc. signal from VK2LZ peaked at
RB, and was probably considerably
stronger, as reception at VK2VU is
limited because of high noise level from
high-voltage cables near by. On this
occasion, the two stations were put in
touch with each other by VK2NO, trans-
mitting two-way on 56mc. with VK2LZ
and receiving VK2VU on 3.5mc. The
microphone standing near the 3.5mc. re-
ceiver speaker passed on the signal from
Singleton to Wentworth Falls over the
60-mile path.
VK2JU spoke interestingly on amateur-
band superhet receiver design at the
August meeting of W.1.A., N.S.W. divi-
sion, held in Sydney on 17/8//39. This
was the largest Sydney meeting of ama-
teurs for some years.
VK6WZ, Harry Atkinson, Perth
(W.A.), says that he was the only West-
ralian on 3.5mc. during the VK-ZL con-
test, and heard VK2NO well, discussing
Bassett and Belling Lee cables with a
VK2VU has had two contacts with
VK6RW on that band, and VK2CI has
been heard strongly in Manjimup. It
seems that good signals can be heard on
3.5mc. in Westralia from most States and
ZL, but few VK6’s are interested. Un-
fortunate that 3.5mc. is essentially a
winter band, and for most of the year
is untenable for comfortable communi-
cation.
Some Gs found during the recent
56mc. DX period that identification of
signals was made more difficult through
the presence of harmonics from amateur
stations using the 7mc. and 14mc. bands.
That is a problem in Sydney also, as
some of the lower-frequency stations
radiate harmonics on 56mc. at more than
R 9 strength when three or four miles dis-
tant. Some stations on 14mc. C.W. can
be heard on their harmonics as far as
16 miles distant. The trouble usually lies
in aerial couplings. Handbooks contain
a wealth of information on harmonic-
suppression couplings.
The Question Box.
Full name and address must accompany all
queries; and write legibly to avoid con-
fusion in addresses. Queries are dealt with
by post where the matter may be urgent,
otherwise answers will appear in this column.
Where can I obtain a complete list of ex-
perimental transmitting stations in Australia?
—BO3.
From the Wireless Branch, P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment, Treasury Gardens, Melbourne, C 2; price
2s. 6d. The list also contains full particulars
of all Australian broadcasting stations.
New address of “Radio,” U.S.A., is
1300 Kenwood-road, Santa Barbara,
California.
* * * *
A.W.A. has published a ready-reckoner
in the form of a booklet showing the
charges for Beam wireless messages to
Various countries. The co. considers that
people occupy more time in preparation
of messages than is taken in the actual
dispatch.


OUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT.
This Australia
FOR about 200 years this country’s
name was New Holland. It was
not ' until the middle of the last
century that even Downing-street
took to calling it Australia—although,
curiously enough, the latter name was
coined just about three centuries ago,
when the vague southern continent had
got itself referred to in a Dutch geo-
graphical index produced in 1638 as
Australia Incognita Outdekt (Unknown
Australia Discovered).
When the Dutch first stumbled on the
nor’-western coasts of the continent they
referred .to it loosely as “Terra Australis,”
but by the middle of the seventeenth
century it was usually styled “New Hol-
land.” This merely denoted the land
west of 135°. E. —it supposed that beyond
that longitude there were only islands.
Captain Cook took it that his discoveries
of 1770 were on “the eastern coast of
New Holland,” but it wasn’t at all cer-
tain that the continent was not split into
two big islands by a sea passage through
its middle. . So when the British came
to settle here in 1788 Phillip’s instruc-
tions were to take possession of the east
coast and as far west as 135° E. —and
it became usual to call all the land west
of that line “New Holland” and what
was east of it “New South Wales.” The
early Governors ruled over a N.S.W.
stretching between Cape Otway and Cape
York which was considered only as a
subdivision of the continent of New
Holland.
The man who at length invented a
name for the present Commonwealth was
Matthew Flinders, who had been the
first accurately to define its geographical
position, and it is something for this
country to realise that the name it bears
now should have been bestowed by “one
of the foremost, bravest and ablest of
her maritime explorers.” Even in 1804
Flinders was using the name “Australia”
to include both New Holland and
N.S.W., and always tried to secure its
adoption by the official world of Great
Britain and geographers generally. But
the principal patron of Flinders, as of
early Australia, Sir Joseph Banks, did
not find it to his taste, and wouldn't
agree to “Australia” in the title of the
great work in which Flinders records
his discoveries. So the book had to be
called A Voyage to Terra Australis.
However, Flinders was well backed up
in this country by Governor Macquarie,
who enthusiastically adopted the name
suggested as soon as he heard of it.
After 1817 he always wrote of “Aus-
tralia,” and recommended it to the Home
authorities as preferable to New Holland.
But the Colonial Office wouldn’t agree,
and until 1850 Downing-street stuck to
the Dutchmen’s name —though it con-
ceded something by referring to the Aus-
tralian settlements as a whole (N.S.W.
and V.D.L.) as “Australia.” Long before
this time, however, ordinary people had
adopted the name urged by Flinders and
Macquarie, and this “Australia” of ours
was become almost universal.
But there had been some curious acci-
dental acceptances of the name. In 1788
a French journalist wrote of “New Hol-
land, which, under the name of Aus-
tralia, is becoming a powerful empire.”
This, of course, was merely the fancy
of an individual. Oddly, French writers
of a slightly earlier period often made
use of the adjective “Australien” with
reference to an unknown but probable
southern continent. It is noteworthy,
too, that there was published in London
in 1793 a Zoology and Botany of New
Holland which referred to the continent
of “Australia, Australasia, or New Hol-
land.”
Sad Mr. Johnson
OF all the officials who landed in
Port Jackson from the First Fleet
there was none who had a harder
time of it officially than young
Richard Johnson, who had been ap-
pointed by King George 111. “Chap-
lain to the settlement within our Terri-
tory of New South Wales” soon after he
was ordained a priest. That he did a
lot of good work has long been recog-
nised, but while he was doing it he re-
ceived the minimum of encouragement
from his immediate superiors, and seems
to have been regarded in the light of a
nuisance who might be tolerated if he
kept quiet, but was of very little import-
ance in such an arduous job as the estab-
lishment of a new province.
Johnson and the Governor didn’t hit
it off. As neither the latter nor any-
one else had made any move to provide
him with a church after five years of
waiting for it, Johnson resolved to build
one himself, and did so. It was a quaint
structure of wattle-and-dab and thatch
from Rushcutter Bay, and the first ser-
vice was held in it on August 25, 1793.
Captain Hunter, the second Governor,
was more sympathetic, and did what he
could for the chaplain, whom he refers
to as “a most dutiful son of the Church
of England,” but he couldn’t do much.
A letter he received from Johnson in
December, 1795, gives some idea of sad
Mr. Johnson’s sorrows.
“Sir,” it reads, “I beg leave to state
to you the following circumstances, viz.:
That, after having made repeated appli-
cations, first to Governor Phillip and
afterwards to Major Grose, the late
Lieutenant-Governor, for a place of wor-
ship to be erected, and there being no
prospect of my application being com-
plied with, I was at length (after being in
the Colony for about five years and a
half) induced and resolved to erect a
temporary place for the purpose. That
when I had completed this undertaking
I laid before the Lieutenant-Governor an
estimate of the expense, requesting that
he would transmit the same to the Honor-
able Mr. Dundas, not doubting but that
these expenses would be refunded. , But
from letters which I have lately received
from some respectable friends, some
doubts have arisen in my mind whether
the application and request which I
have made will be complied with. After
having declared that my sole intention in
undertaking and accomplishing this busi-
ness was for the good of the service, I
submit to you, sir, whether there could
be anything unreasonable or improper in
my making such request and application.
“Should my conduct in what I have done
meet with your approbation, I humbly
request, sir, that you make such a repre-
sentation of the affair to his Majesty’s
Ministers that those obstacles which have
unexpectedly arisen may be removed. I
have taken the liberty of inclosing to
yo,u, in brief, an estimate of the expenses
that I have been at in the above affair.”
They owed the poor parson £67 13s.
2|d., and before he got paid the church
was burnt down, supposedly by convicts
who objected to compulsory attendance
at the Sunday services. A fine tribute
was paid to him in a letter written home
by a young convict in 1790, when he
wrote: “On the same account I believe
few of the rich, would recover if it'were
not for the kindness of the Rev. Mr.
Johnson, whose assistance out of his own
stores make him the' physician both of
soul and body.” ,
The Curate of Hoole
IF anyone asks you what Englishman
of the seventeenth century had most
to do with the. settlement of Aus-
tralia in the eighteenth it is
ten to one you’ll pick on Will Dampier,
the man who came twice to the coasts of
the continent and wrote so convincingly
and charmingly about the little he saw
of its western side as to establish an
undying curiosity about it in the minds
of Englishmen. But when everything is
boiled down it was really another fellow
who brought James Cook to the further
side of the big island, and afterwards
Arthur Phillip to establish a colony ‘here
beside Cook’s “boat harbor” of Port
Jackson. A young parson addicted to
stargazing was the primary cause of
British dominion in the South Seas.
The Rev. Jeremiah Horrocks, 22 years
old and a brilliant mathematical gradu-
ate of Cambridge, was curate of a little
Lancashire village called Hoole. He
was most enthusiastically devoted to
astronomy, and when he woke up on
Sunday, November 24, 1639, his mind
was more fully occupied with the
material calculable heavens than with the
spiritual. With a telescope that had
cost him half a crown —a good bit out
of a weekly 15s. —he was going to tackle
a very big astronomical job in the next
few hours —to watch an event in space
that nobody else had consciously watched
since the world began. He had made
certain intricate calculations, and was
quite sure that on that day Venus would
pass between the earth and the sun, and
that he would see something hitherto quite
unrecorded—the shadow of the planet
creeping across the circle of light which
represented the sun’s image passing
through the lenses of his telescope
and exhibiting itself on a screen in his
darkened sitting-room. If he could
watch the passage of this shadow across
the disk of sunlight he would be able to
learn something about the sun and the
planets that nobody quite knew for
certain.
It was an exceptionally fine day for a
Lancashire November, and the Rev. Jere-
miah longed to watch the bright circle of
light in the dim room all through the
hours of sunshine, but his clerical job
claimed him until 3.15 in the afternoon.
When he got into his room at last he
enjoyed the highest reward of his short
life —he died next year—for actually
crawling over the sunlit circle was a black
spot! He gazed at it moving across until
the sun set at 3.45 p.m., and his joy was
complete. For he had found that the
earth and Venus moved round the sun
exactly in the way he had calculated.
From the young curate’s data it was
possible to predict exactly the day of the
year when the transit of Venus would
again occur. In 1716 Edmund Halley
(the comet man) realised that it was
going to happen again in 1761 and 1769.
Halley was becoming an old man then,
but he left a memorial to British astrono-
mers imploring them not to neglect these
occasions. In 1760 the Royal Society
with Government assistance organised
expeditions to St. Helena and Sumatra to
observe the transit. But it was cloudy
at St. Helena, on the great day, and the
Sumatra ship, never got to the East Indies
at all. So the Royal Society determined
to try again .in 1769, since another tran-
sit would not take place until 1874.
The Government was willing to foot
the bill, and Lieutenant James'Cook, with
Mr. Joseph Banks, sailed for Tahiti in
H.M.S. Endeavour, observed the transit,
and then, took his famous “look-see” in
the South -Pacific,- in the course of which
he found Australia again and spent a
week in Botany Bay. .
In effect, Jeremiali Hbrrocks, just 300
years ago in sleepy little Hoole, gave the
first impulse to a‘long series of human
actions that led Cook to Botany Bay and
Phillip into Port Jackson more than a
century after his death.
Sorrento
a r\ T 15 past 10,” writes the Rev.
“Bobby” Knopwood in his inimi-
I \ table and nearly illegible log,
which is in the Mitchell Library
at Sydney, “we anchored with the best
bower in 6 fathoms ; found lying here
the Ocean transport, which arrived on
Friday the 7 of October Capt. Wood-
riff and Lieut.-Governor Collins went on
shore on the south side of the island. At
6 they returned. Could not find any fresh
water. They reported the soil to be. very
bad, and the trees small, unfit for use of
H.M. Navy.” So arrived in; 1803 the
first white settlers —only they didn't
settle —in Victoria. For some reason of
his own the chaplain always refers to the
Nepean Peninsula as “the island.”
The present Melbourne watering place
of Sorrento lies behind the anchorage
they removed to on the 19th, and here
the tents were pitched and the work of
disembarkation begun. Four officers and
47 rank and file of the Royal Marines
furnished the garrison, and there were
330 convicts and a dozen free settlers in
the little colony. No female prisoners
had been brought out, and only 17 con-
victs’ wives had been permitted to ac-
company the expedition carried from
England in H.M.S. Calcutta and the
transport Ocean, whilst there were, only
five married marines, so that the new
settlement was essentially a bucks’ party.
Collins could hardly have chosen a
worse site in all the Port Phillip country.
A trickle of moisture had been found
near Arthur’s Seat, the high hill behind
the camp, but the only drinking water
was obtained by sinking perforated casks
in the sands by the shore. The prisoners
were landed on the 16th, but it was
thought necessary to send off an expedi-
tion to the northward, under the Cal-
cutta’s first lieutenant, to see whether a
better place was not available. It returned
in a week with a poor report of the
country, so Collins decided to remain
where he was, for the present at least.
The Lieutenant-Governor was a first-
rate historian but a tenth-rate pioneer.
He was convinced that; the settlement
should be near the entrance to the big
bay, but that hardly excuses his squatting
down in a position whence the slightest
drought would inevitably evict him. How-
ever, the truth seems to have been that
Collins himself was not enthusiastic
about making a success of the Port
Phillip venture. His instructions did not
positively restrict him to this part of the
south coast of the continent as a means
of forestalling French settlement, and
when he saw an opportunity of getting
out he took it. (
On January 26, 1804 —sixteen years
after a greater man than David Collins
had established his settlement at Port
Jackson —the colony was evacuated to the
Derwent River in Van Diemen’s Land.
It is almost certain that the final reason
for going was the Lieutenant-Governor’s
nervousness as to the blacks. The land
wasn’t much good, but he knew where
better was easily to be found at the head
of the bay, where the Yarra flows into it.
Jann Bonwick, the historian of early Vic-
toria, seems to hit the nail on the head
when he writes: “It was enough to do
to look after the convicts, with his small
army; the Governor therefore feared to
add to his anxieties and responsibilities by
establishing himself near so strong a band
of resolute savages. Some, think the fear
of a lonesome post, hundreds of miles
from other Europeans, exposed to the
attacks of warlike tribes over so exten-
sive a range of country, prevailed in the
mind of Colonel Collins as much as the
fear of wanting fresh water in prompting
.a removal from the mainland.”
So Victoria failed of its first founda-
tion, but it is interesting to record that
Mrs. Hopley, one of Collins’s few female
adventurers, didn’t think it should have.
“My pen,” she wrote home, “is not able
to describe half the beauties of that de-
lightful spot. We were four months
there. Much to my mortification, as well
as loss, we were obliged to abandon the
settlement, through the whim and caprice
of the Lieutenant-Governor. Additional
expense to Government and additional
loss of individuals were incurred by re-
moving to Van Diemen’s Land, which
can never be made to answer. Port
Phillip is my favorite, and has my warm-
est wishes. During the time we were
there, I never felt one ache or pain, and
I parted with it with more regret than I
did my native land.”


MTS
LYS
IS
pROor
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
Ef
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
■-:■- > "• ■
i ~****''*”***“ ”******,
■"■"""W'.iCTaCMSt
\:
WcZ
siH.*
S<H«
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
z
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sheep on Scrub Land.
“H.A.L.”: In the higher-rainfall parts
of southern Australia there are big areas
of scrub country used for grazing sheep.
It’s usual to burn off as often as possible
and then turn wethers loose to pick up a
living as best they can. If they are given
an occasional spell on grass between
periods of scrub grazing, the sheep will
keep in fair condition, but when forced
to live upon gum-tips and yacca shoots
for a whole year they become woefully
poor, and a high proportion die.
I have seen sheep come off scrub so
weak that they could not travel more
than a mile a day ; when they did arrive
at the shed the shearers refused to handle
them. The fact that this sort of thing
has been done since Australia was first
settled does not make it right, nor does
the argument that the stockowner has to
make a living carry weight.
Worked in conjunction with grassland,
scrub grazing is both useful and profit-
able, but the old rule of “one month on
the grass for every two in the scrub'’
should be adhered to, not only because
it is best for the sheep and most profit-
able for their owner, but on humane
grounds. «
The sheep is one of the hardiest of
domestic animals, but it cannot live all
the time on scrub shoots.
Polled Merino Rams.
“B-gar”: Can’t agree that horns are
essential to merino rams (B. 16/8/’39).
There are both horned and polled Pol-
warth£, seven-eighths merino, and the
hornless rams have just the same mascu-
linity and character. The same should
apply to the merino.
The suggestion that only merino rams
worthy of a knife give trouble about
the heads during blowfly periods is surely
ridiculous. I’ve often cursed unnecessary
headgear when trying to get to the root
of maggot trouble about the base of the
horns, and not only with rams whose
horns are “clamped to the jaws.”
There is no proof that an animal suffers
for the loss of a horn, and there is ample
proof that cattle benefit when dehorned.
I know of one instance where a couple
of hundred rams were relieved of their
horns during a drought period so as to
make it easier for them to stagger five
miles to water. They weathered the
drought. The weight of those horns con-
vinced me that man could improve on
Nature’s intention by evolving a polled
type. _______
Tetanus in Sheep.
“Bungaree”: Sheep losses from shear-
ing-time tetanus can become serious.
It is difficult to clean up some old
sheds, but losses can be reduced. The
tetanus germ usually enters through
shearing cuts. Shearers should be
cautioned against using scratchy combs,
and rough shearing should be dealt with
severely. Dress cuts with disinfectant —
don’t use arsenical dips which are not
antiseptic. Keep plenty of disinfectant
handy in the shed, and add plenty to the
water in shearers’ comb and cutter tins.
Start cleaning up long before shearing
by digging out the old droppings from
underneath and by taking at least 6in. of
top soil out of the counting-out pens.
Scatter lime plentifully under shed and in
pens. Keep dust down in yards.
Give the inside of the shed a thorough
clean-up. Never bring in dead wool, and
don’t leave heaps of old crutchings, stains
or dags lying about —burn them.
Overhaul the sweating pens thoroughly.
Don’t let old droppings accumulate. If
battens are too close or broken so that
droppings cannot pass through, relay or
renew battens. Wash down the board
with plenty of hot water, and get the old
grease off it. Disinfect board and chutes
and leave the disinfectant lying there.
Let plenty of light and ventilation into
the shed.
It is now possible to protect sheep
against tetanus by inoculation. Tetanus
anti-toxic serum may be given just prior
to shearing or even on the board. The
“S’ posin’ We trade in our old furniture ’ n' get some of this modern stuff.”
dose is only } c.c.—protection lasts only
for a couple of weeks.
The better plan is to inoculate at least
six weeks before shearing with tetanus
toxoid. The Sose is larger and more
easily handled. With a modern auto-
matic syringe the sheep may be vacci-
nated in a race in any sheepyard without
any more handling than is necessary in
drenching. The toxoid gives immunity
for a year. A second dose will give im-
munity for life. Its use is not confined
to sheep. Stud horses and cattle should
be inoculated where the disease is
prevalent. Cost is reasonable, and the job
can be done by the owner.
Cattle Lessons from Abroad.
“Mookau”: J. R. McLoughlin, secre-
tary of the S’African Meat Industries
Control Board, now in the Common-
wealth, details measures which the Union
Government has taken for beef improve-
ment and which might well be copied by
all the Australian States.
Any magisterial area in S’Africa may
have itself declared by poll a cattle-im-
provement area. If the poll is in favor
of the scheme it becomes illegal within
the area to use any bull not approved by
the Government inspector. Practically
the whole Union has come under the Act
—BO,OOO bulls have been replaced by
good-class herd bulls, towards the pur-
chase of which the Government gives a
subsidy of £l2 10s. per head.
S’African cattle are as far below the
standard of Australian cattle as the latter
are below Argentine average, but under
this system they should soon improve.
Argentina has long since passed the
point at which it needs to encourage the
use of good bulls —poor-grade stock for
export has no chance in the markets of
the Plate, and regulations are so rigid,
particularly in view of the diseases which
affect S. American cattle, that there is
not much chance of standards falling off.
So soon as a buyer takes delivery of
cattle he must notify the Agricultural
Ministry, whose vets, give a permit to
travel after inspection of the herd. When
the animals arrive at the freezing plant
they are weighed in the presence of Gov-
ernment officials and interested parties.
Stock are then given a shower bath
and placed in pens for a minimum of
48 hours to allow them to recuperate
after their journey. It has been found
that muscular fatigue produces increased
acidity in the live carcass which must
be adjusted before slaughter. The time
of slaughter is fixed by vets., who examine
the animals individually on the hoof for
parasitic and contagious diseases, and
with concentrated attention to the physi-
cal condition of the beast and of the
hide. Lips, eyes and other centres of
possible infection are all carefully exam-
ined.
With slaughtering permits granted, the
stock are then sent to anotner showei
bath and their hides thoroughly cleansed.
Then they are taken to the killing chutes,
stunned, bled and hitched to the con-
veyors, after which they undergo a further
expert examination —lymphoid glands
a*nd ganglions throughout the body are
gone over.
Carcasses are finally dressed, graded
and stamped with the place of origin,
number of the inspector in charge, grad-
ing voucher number and other details.
There isn’t much chance of uneven,
wrongly-graded meat slipping out of
Argentina, and those who send in bruised
and damaged cattle hear about it from
the department.
Veterinary Help for Graziers.
“J.R.D.”: The only trouble with
“Valerin’s” plea for more vets, in N.S.W.
districts (B. 23/ 8/ ’39) is that there aren’t
enough trained vets, to go round.
For some years, all new stock in-
spectors appointed to P.P. districts have
been qualified graduates* and there is
little chance of giving graduates field
experience before appointment. The
ideal scheme would give each graduate
four to six months in at least two different
districts as assistant stock inspector
before taking up a senior appointment.
The C.S. and I.R. has done excellent
work in investigating stock diseases and
the best means of combating them, but
its bulletins and reports rarely reach the
men on the land who could profit by
them, and, even if they did, are often so
technical as to defeat their purpose. The
average grazier is so fed up with the con-
tradictory advice on how to run his
property, drench his sheep, etc., that he
regards the lot with suspicion.
The M.O.L. needs educating in what
the C.S. and I.R. really is, and what it
is doing for him, so that he can look for
and depend on its advice. And on its
part the C.S. and I.R. should regularly
collate and publish its latest information
in simple language with plenty of illus-
trations, and make that information
available to all.
Electric Fences.
“Granova”: “Ghanam” (B. 2/ 8 /’39)
overlooked two important factors when
discussing electric fences. During very
dry spells there is not enough moisture in
the ground for the current to earth, con-
sequently stock pushing against the elec-
trified wire get no shock. Also, full-
woolled sheep, unless trained before-
hand in small lots in electrified yards, will
barge through the fence before they
realise where the shock is coming from.
The first difficulty can be overcome by
running a wire along the ground, held in
place by iron pegs driven into the moist
subsoil, and the second by increasing the


Keep your head above water !
It’s a comfortable feeling to know you have
tucked safely away a little nest egg of savings—
when sudden need comes your way. It is easy
to acquire the hahit, week by week—a few
shillings—you will marvel at their growth.
Interest helps, and you need never have that
“sink or swim” feeling—you need never fear
the future— you’re safe if you save!
Use a Savings Bank Passbook
for your Household Accounts.
i&mmonwealtf) savmas JBanf: of Hustralia
Over 4,000 Branches and Agencies
INCREASE YOUR PROPERTIES’
EARNING CAPACITY
V.
■
*»•
r-
USE CONCRETE
ELIMINATE RECURRING MAINTENANCE COSTS 1
METHOD OF MAKING CONCRETE LEAKING TANKS CONQUERED
CONCRETE FENCE POSTS WITH CONCRETE
CONCRETE SILOS CONCRETE FOR FARMS
WRITE TO US OR ANY CEMENT CO. FOR THE ABOVE BOOKLETS
THE AUSTRALIAN CEMENT MANUFACTURERS
ASSOCIATION
SHELL HOUSE, CARRINGTON STREET, SYDNEY.
82471.
ffuTfexilleforL
WOOL TYPE CARD
Nine standard Bradford types,
sorted by an expert, in a strong
folder.
Price 3/6, post free.
m
3248.
''HV
We don’t wish to brag about our Footwear, but this Boot is really worth
mentioning. Double Soles, Water-resisting Ooze Calf Uppers, reinforced
Elastic in sides and Leather lining throughout.
Stocked in full and half sizes and in wide and extra-wide fittings.
Price 47/6 in Brown.
“If it’s an Abbey Shoe, it’s a good Shoe.”
ABBEY SHOES
316 George Street, 224 Pitt Street, 53 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Telegraphic Address: “ABBEY BOOTS, SYDNEY.
number of wires. However, these extras
make the cost of an electric fence close to
that of a solid type.
For temporary fences in sheep pad-
docks I’ve found ring-lock netting and
steel posts the most satisfactory.
Pigs and Wheat.
“Pappamosca”: The latest prophet of
the wheat-for-pigs movement is T. E.
Barr Smith, chairman of Elder, Smiths,
who remarked the other day in his annual
report to shareholders that, if the slogan
“Breed more wheat-fed pigs” became uni-
versal among Australian growers, it
would go a long way towards improving
their financial position and at the same
time deal to some extent with surplus
wheat.
“Pig-rearing,” he said, “means more
work, but it looks as though we may all
have to work harder in the future if we
are going to maintain our present stand-
ard of living.”
He quoted W.A. figures which placed
the necessary grain to produce lib. of
pork at 41b., and with bacon carcasses
at 6d. per pound at abattoirs, he said,
wheat-fed 180-1901 b. pigs could be pro-
duced, returning ss. 4d. per bushel.
It sounds all right, but there are snags.
Mr. Barr Smith’s proposed carcasses are
too heavy for the export market, and
grain alone •is likely to produce too fat
a pig. A little organisation should over-
come those difficulties. If the States
were to agree to carry wheat free to
dairying districts conditionally on its
being used to develop the pig industry,
it would help. Conversely, supplements
might be carried to wheat districts where
pigs could be raised, in the same way
that drought fodder is carried.
It must be remembered that, at all
costs, export pig-meat must be kept lean,
and the Australian Meat Board has re-
cently expressed the opinion that overfat
carcasses are a burden on the trade. There
is, of course, a difference between pork
and bacon technique, but in each case
animals should be marketed at the point
at which they are just beginning to put
on their maturity fat —not when they are
fully fatted.
Concentrates and Pastures.
“Clover”: Feeding protein concen-
trates to stock running on lush pastures
is a waste of money. In the vegetative
stage pastures are rich in protein, and
also in minerals —phosphorus, ash, lime
and carotene, the constituent for vitamin
A. Phalaris tuberosa contains 33 per
cent, of crude protein in the early tiller-
ing stage, when minerals are also at their
highest content. As plants mature, the
content of essential elements declines,
and after the flowering stage concentrates
may be of benefit.
Animals have no storehouses for pro-
tein. Excess consumed is partly turned
into fat, but most of it merely passes
through the stomach and is wasted. An
excess protein diet predisposes sheep and
lambs to entero and the whole gamut of
toxoemia troubles. Chaff, fed through
self-feeders, will balance the ration.
Bronze Wilt in Tomatoes.
“Endor”: N. S. Wales tomato-growers
are despairing because of the incidence
of bronze or spotted wilt, which destroys
crops year after year.
The disease is to be found on numer-
ous garden plants, is spread by an insect
and there is no known preventive or cure
once a plant is infected. N.S.W. plant-
breeders are now trying to evolve a
tomato which will be resistant or perhaps
immune.
At Hawkesbury College (N.S.W.) it has
been noticed that the red-currant tomato
is not susceptible, and that the Peruvian
wild varieties are wilt-free. A number
of varieties have remained clean for years,
but none of them has yet been commer-
cialised.
There’s a fortune for the man who can
produce a breed which wilt won’t touch.
Hints for the Farm.
“Mullengah”: Give pigs ample green
feed, as well as skim-milk and maize, to
avoid paralysis. Rotational grazing of
good pastures is one of the best methods.
Mineral deficiency is a cause of paralysis,
and occurs particularly when a sow is
suckling a big litter. Give the sows bone-
meal, in a trough, with cross slats to pre-
vent rooting, fixed solidly to the ground.
Injuries sustained when pigs wallow and
bog in muddy yards lead to paralysis.
Well-drained pens, kept dry, and con-
Crete sections for feeding troughs are the
remedy. Wet, muddy conditions encour-
age worm infestation.
“Jayem”: The only real cure for bone
chewing (B. 2/8/’39) is to make good
the mineral deficiency of the soil by top-
dressing pastures with lcwt. to 2cwt. ot
super, per acre every year. Apply lOcwt.
of lime per acre every three years.
Mineral deficiency is the cause of bone-
chewing, and topdressed pastures the pre-
vention and cure. Topdressing, too, will
produce more feed from the pastures, and
will encourage growth of clovers, always
important in the care of stock. Until pas-
tures respond to topdressing, give the
stock sterilised bonemeal and salt. The
stock may want more bonemeal than salt,
or vice versa. Put salt and bonemeal out
in separate containers and let the cattle
take them as they want them. For a time,
consumption of bonemeal and salt will be
heavy, but the stock will show the bene-
fit and less will be required in a few
weeks.
“Yarrunga”: Jamberoo (N.S.W.) Co-
op. Dairy Society, which during 1938-39
treated 1,816,930 gallons of milk, set an
example in thoroughness to other depots
in the city milk zone. The factory re-
ceived all milk produced by its suppliers.
The larger proportion was treated for
Sydney supply, and, by special Milk
Board permit, portion was separated for
sweet cream. The society also concen-
trated and condensed 525,000 gallons, the
former for the ice-cream trade. Dried
skim-milk provided a product that was
unequal to the demand for calf-rearing.
“Porcine”: Kikuyu grass is gaining
recognition for its special value as pas-
ture for pigs. Its sphere, though, is con-
fined to friable volcanic soils in coastal
districts of good rainfall. This was
noticeable in the N.S.W. dairy-farm com-
petitions, its use largely in pig-grazing
runs providing quite a large bulk of
feed. Veterinarian T. G. Hungerford, who
judged the competitions, remarked that
the extensive rooting by the pigs in search
for the rhizomes in this plant benefited
the grass. Rooting, however, can easily
be overdone. Remember that pigs will
not root if provided with shade and if
they are kept off pasture while it is too
short to graze.
“Cooramin”: A dangerous weed pest
of the back country is bindi-eye, a creep-
ing plant whose seed pod has five strong,
sharp spikes. No matter how the pod is
placed, two of the spikes always stick
straight up. The bindi-eye occurs in
patches from the Darling to the centre of
Australia. In cool districts, frost kills the
plant, but does not affect the seed, which
matures before winter. The burrs are
dangerous to sheep in short wool, as they
stick into the skin when the animals lie
down. The spikes cause intense pain
and festering sores. Sheep-dogs won’t
work on infested areas without boots,
and you’ll never see a dingo’s track
where the bindi-eye grows.


MOUNTAIN
HOLIDAYS
g
3
&
s
iS 1
Situated in a Haven of
Beauty, and only an hour’s
drive from Sydney, is the
world-renowned Lapstone
Hotel . . . Australia’s gayest
rendezvous of tourists,
visitors and holiday makers
Here is service and cuisine
that compares with the
world’s best—with private
Crystal Pool, Golf, Tennis,
and a brilliant Ballroom,
together with a unique
feature . . . “The Million-
acre Panoramic View.”
PEACE & QUIETNESS
rv-
nv-s w
t
'Me
A
LAPSTONE
HOTEL
A NATIONAL
PLEASURE GROUND
SUPERB FOR A HOLIDAY
GOLF
f't
At)
£
MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS
NOW ... MODERATE RATES
LAPSTONE
LUXURY HOTEL
BLUE MOUNTAINS, N.S.W.
’Phone: Penrith 82, 85.
Rates from 17/6 per day, or
from £5/5/- per week inclusive.
When in Sydney inquire at Lapstone
Office, 12a Martin Place, Government
Tourist Bureau, or through any Tourist
Agency. Telegrams and Cables: “Lap-
stone,” Glenbrook. HERBERT J.
PARKER, Resident Manager.
ENTEROTOXAEMIA
ANATOX PULPY KIDNEY VACCINE
Anatox Vaccine has given universal satisfaction for
over five years and enjoys a unique reputation.
Price 25/«
per 500
doses,
1 dose per
season.
1111
seassa,
if I IS
Every dose
personally
prepared by
qualified
Bacteri-
ologists.
G. TEESDALE SMITH,
SCIENTIFIC UTILITIES PTYLTD
77 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
This little fellow carries
a 5 years’ guarantee
and takes care of
25 miles of
fencing.
I
© © ©
BATTERY
ITS MARVELLOUS
How a
“BIG SIX”
Controlled Single Wire Will Stop
the Most Persistent Fence-breaker
ELECTRIC fences have proved a great aid to profitable farming, easily
erected, positively stockproof, harmless to animals or humans.
The BIG SIX” Electric Fence Charger is not an experiment; over 40,000
in use in America, New Zealand and Australia. You’ll want one directly
you see a fence in operation. So why not now?
IT’S AN ABSOLUTE BOON TO PIG
AND DAIRY FARMERS.
SINGLE WIRE FENCE CO.
189 CLARENCE STREET,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
'Phone: MA1983.
Mail This Coupon To-day
Please send me Descriptive Literature and
full details of the “Big Six” Electric
Fence Chaiger.
Name *
Address
'
: ■ . :
WINNERS
all along the line
Made to stand up to
hard wear, smartly
cut and tailored,
thoroughly shrunk
by the patented
Ingotizing process.
Men want clothes they can depend on—not only the kind that
will stand up to tough conditions, but those that will wash and
iron, and look smart long after the life of ordinary trousers.
They want Ingot Trousers, made from Australian yarn, by
Australian experts—for customers who value values. INGOT
TWEED TROUSERS are tested in the factory for strength and
wear and they’re tested thoroughly, under every climatic and
working condition, by thousands of outdoor men in every
Australian State, who buy them again and again.
Get a pair yourself and prove their value.
If unobtainable, please write G.P.O. Box 3990 V, Sydney.
m
TWEE
@(DH
TROUSERS
AT ALL LEADING STORES
For Only 1/- Per Week
You Can Have Dependable
ELECTRIC LIGHT
FOR YOUR HOME
You can use 3 lights for Si hours every night «•
at a cost of only 1 /- per week with a
Johnson Iron Horse
GENERATOR
Lights 12-25 Watt Globes
• 300 Watts •12 Volts
ź
You no longer need be inconvenienced with old style lighting—the messy,
dangerous and old fashioned lamps—when ELECTRIC LIGHT, the boon of
to-day’s civilisation, is now available quickly and economically with the
JOHNSON IRON HORSE GENERATOR. Have the extra comfort and con-
venience of ELECTRIC LIGHT for your Home, Power for your Radio and
Power for Charging Batteries, by installing a JOHNSON GENERATOR
immediately.
Here Are a Few of the More Important Features
300 WATTS ... 12 VOLTS . . . Lights 12-25 Watt Globes . . . ELECTRIC
STARTING—just push a button . . . FULL RANGE CONTROL . . . Special
Built-in Generator Powered by a Johnson Iron Horse 4-Cycle Petrol Engine
. . . AUTOMATIC CUT-OUT disconnects when not
running . . . Quiet Operation . . . Minimum Vibration.
CASH PRICE
£34/10/-
(Batteries Extra.)
Special Terms From £lO Deposit.
Approved Country Residents may obtain immediate
possession by paying a deposit of £lO, and if
the balance is paid within 12
months there is no extra
charge for interest.
vco^'
tops o ®;
sS**,
tea
ay* 6ol
S'*
et»
&
ai’®
NO c^
tvve
o
e^sy
G°
<*>?>
yap
*2501
tIOB
U VaT=
to\ig a
vtac
BO*
t\lO^
iuU
liiC
v6Vo el
« o vv» a
atov
y\ea se
Ge» el
Vlovse
Ma^ as
B. «l? -
NOCKcKIRBY LTD
Postal Address.. BOX 4250 Y G.P.O. SYDNEY


CORNS.
Small things, but big worries; short heads
but long lives, unless A’CORN SILK is applied.
. . . A’CORN SILK clings to the corn like an
octopus, kills it and roots it out The treat-
ment requires no preparation, no mess, but is
easy, rapid and painless. A sixpenny packet
is all you need. Ask your chemist for A’CORN
SILK. Packed by FELTON, GRIM WADE
and DUERDINS, LTD., Melbourne.
QN
BANK
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK, LIMITED
Established 1872.
HEAD OFFICE, BRISBANE
Directors —James Love, Esq. (Chairman) ; W. H. Hart, Esq. ; M. J, Ryan, Esq.,
F. E. Loxton, Esq.; Wm. A. Jolly, Esq., C.M.G.
General Manager —D. S. FORTIES. .
With offices at London Canberra, Melbourne, Sydney and 144 Branches and Receivin 0
™sThroughout Seensland and Northern Rivers, New South Wales, also representa-
tion through the leading Banking Institutions covering Australasia and the World,
“nis Bank offers the fullest facilities for the transaction of all general banking business.
The Woman’s Mirror
It deals with every subject of
interest to women.
PRICE 3d.
On Sale Every Wednesday.
Our Service Department
This page is set apart for the service of Bulletin
readers.
The service is entirely free. All you have to do is to
attach the coupon from the inside back cover of last
Bulletin to hand.
To avoid confusion in filing and search, every inquiry
must be confined to one subject.
The right of selection and rejection is reserved.
“Wanted to Sell” or “To Let” notices are not admissible.
Wants.
Gentleman, middle-aged, Sydney, seeks
clerical position, or will act as caretaker, watch-
man or liftdriver. —4600. *
Lady, Sydney, organising and journalistic
exp., able to type, seeks position in city.—
4605.
To get in touch with good billiard player
in Melbourne willing to give visitor a few
lessons. —4547.
To buy copy of Pitt-Munn report on Aus-
tralian libraries.—46o9.
Copy of John Shaw Neilson’s Heart of
Spring, good condition. State price, or will ex-
change for Australian novels, shop condition. —
4562.
Words of old song beginning “Twilight is
stealing soft o’er the sea.” —4566.
Words of parody on “Dangerous Dan Mc-
Grew” and words of nonsense verse “The 11.69
Express.”—4s4l.
Whereabouts of Frank Julian ■ Allen, last
heard of at Fay’s boot shop, George-street,
Sydney, about 20 years ago. Aged about 60.
—4584.
Information Sought.
(1) Who comprised the Federal Ministry at
the outbreak of the Great War? (2) When did
Andrew Fisher become Prime Minister for the
third time ? (3) Who were members of his
Cabinet when he took over from Joseph Cook ?
—4608.
(1) Joseph Cook (Prime Minister and Home
Affairs), John Forrest (Treasurer), W. H. Irvine
(Attorney-General), E. D. Millen (Defence),
Patrick McMahon Glynn (External Affairs),
Littleton Groom (Trade and Customs), Agar
Wynne (Postmaster-General), J. H. McColl
(Vice-Pres., Executive Council), and J. S.
Clemons and W. H. Kelly (Ministers without
portfolio). (2) September 17, 1914. (3) Andrew
Fisher (Prime Minister and Treasurer), W. M.
Hughes (Attorney-General), George Pearce
(Defence), Frank Tudor (Trade and Customs),
J. A. Arthur (External Affairs), W. O. Archi-
bald (Home Affairs), W. G. Spence (Post-
master-General), Albert Gardiner (Vice-Pres.,
Executive Council), and Hugh Mahon, Jens
August Jensen and E. J. Russell (Assistant
Ministers).
* * * *
A few details concerning the seamen’s strike
about 60 years ago against the Australasian
Steam Navigation Company over the employ-
ment of Chinese crews ? —4606.
About the middle of 1878 the company
engaged Chinese on some of its vessels
trading with the islands; in November, intend-
ing to use them also on the Queensland run,
it brought about 100 to Sydney in the Ocean.
The union, alarmed at the prospect, declared a
strike against the company. Within a short
time 17 of the company’s vessels were tied up,
though some sailings were maintained, chiefly
by the help of Chinese crews. The strikers
received support from the general public as
well as other unions, and the Queensland Gov-
ernment announced that it would not continue
its mail-subsidy while colored labor was em-
ployed. In January, 1879, a settlement was
effected, the co. agreeing not to retain more
than 180 Chinese —to be reduced to 130 within
a period of three months. The last of the
Chinese crews was discharged on September 1,
1882.
>& * * *
What legal assistance is given to persons in
N. S. Wales by the Crown ? —4632.
Under the Poor Prisoners’ Defence Act, 1907,
a person committed for trial for an indictable
offence may apply for legal aid for his defence
before the jury is sworn. If the Judge or com-
mitting magistrate considers that the person is
without adequate means, and that such legal
aid should be supplied, the Attorney-General
may arrange for the defence of the accused and
for payment of expenses of all material wit-
nesses. The Poor Persons’ Legal Remedies Act,
1918, authorises Judges to make rules regulating
the practice and procedure and the costs and
fees payable in respect of proceedings to which
poor persons are parties. Such proceedings may
not be instituted without permission, and Judges
to whom applications for permission are maae
are authorised to act as conciliators. The rules
made under this Act do not apply to criminal
proceedings. Barristers and solicitors have en-
rolled under this Act to give their service free
of charge on being assigned in a proper case.
Out-of-pocket expenses are paid by the Crown.
* * * *
When were maternity allowances first paid in
Australia and what was the amount of the
allowance ? When was the amount changed
and what is it now ? —4641.
The Commonwealth Maternity Allowances
Act came into force on October 10, 1912, to
provide for the payment to mothers of a sum
of £5 in respect of each birth occurring in
Australia. The allowance was reduced to £4
in July, 1931, and payment was restricted to
cases where the income of the claimant and
her husband (or, in the case of a posthumous
or ex-nuptial child, the income of the claimant)
did not exceed £260 during the preceding 12
months. In October, 1932, the income limit
was fixed at £2OB. Since August, 1934, the
limit has been graded, within a range of £9l,
according to the number of the claimant’s
children, £l3 being added to the minimum for
each surviving child under 14 years of age
born prior to the birth in respect of which
the allowance is claimed. The income limits
were raised by £l3 in September, 1936, and by
£26 in January, 1938. The amount of allowance
now varies from £4 10s. to £7 10s. (provision
having been made for extra allowances in re-
spect of living children), and the income limit
ranges from £247 to £338 p.a.
* * * *
What is the position regarding payment of
pensions to old-age pensioners who are in-
mates of benevolent asylums or hospitals ?
4638.
If a pensioner is an inmate of a public
benevolent asylum, or remains in a public
hospital for over 28 days, he receives an allow-
ance of 6s. per week instead of a full pension.
If the pensioner had applied for a pension
before entering the institution, the Federal
Government also pays to the institution an
allowance up to 14s. per week for his main-
tenance, but such allowance is not made in
respect of a pensioner who was an inmate when
he applied for a pension.
# * * *
Can you tell me something about the Queens-
land Honey Board? —4617.
This board was established in 1929 and
employs a Brisbane agent who receives and
disposes of the product, except where producers
who observe the board’s conditions are allowed
to market directly. A levy is imposed of H
p.c. on proceeds, and also on the commission
allowed the agent, amounting to another H pc.,
on sales. The board endeavors to maintain
prices, to improve the quality of the product
and its preparation for market, and advertises
honey. As there are no exports there is no
necessity for a pool. In 1937-38, 3382 601 b.
tins were sold at from l|d. to sd. per pound
according to grade. Beeswax is included in the
board’s operations, 60951 b. being sold during
the year at from Is. 2d. to Is. Bd. per pound.
* :Js * *
What was the Koszta affair? —4621.
Martin Koszta was a Hungarian refugee who,
when in the United States in 1850, declared his
intention of becoming an American citizen, and
went through the preliminary forms. In 1853
he visited Smyrna, and on June 21 was seized
by a boat’s crew of the Austrian brig Huzzar.
By direction of the American minister at Con-
stantinople, Capt. Ingraham, of the American
sloop St. Louis, demanded his release; but,
having heard that the prisoner was to be clan-
destinely transported to Trieste, he demanded
his surrender by a certain time, and prepared
to attack the Austrian vessel on July 2. Koszta
was then given up. The Austrian Government
protested against these proceedings, but Koszta
eventually returned to the U.S.A.
* * * *
Some details about Bernard Cronin, Aus-
tralian author ? —4504.
Bernard Cronin was born at Ealing, England,
on March 18, 1884, and completed his educa-
tion at Dookie Agricultural College, Victoria,
where he was dux and gold medallist in 1901.
He was engaged in cattle raising and farming
until 1913. He founded the Derelicts’ Club,
Melbourne, in connection with Gertrude Hart;
from it later emerged the Society of Australian
Authors, of which he was president from 1927
to 1934. Publications include The Coastlanders
(1918), Timber Wolves (1920), Bluff Stakes
(1922), Salvage (1923), Red Dawson (1927),
White Gold (1927), Dragon Fly (1928), Bracken
(1929), and The Sow’s Ear (1933).
* * * *
(1) Inventor of the Gatling machine-gun ? (2)
When was it first used by the British army ?
(3) Particulars of its mechanism ? (4) Rate of
fire and type of ammunition used ? —4526.
(1) R. J. Gatling, born in North Carolina
(U.S.A.) 1818, died 1903. (2) It was first
considered by the Ordnance Select Committee
in 1867, and was first introduced in 1872 both
for naval and military use. It was employed
during the Ashanti War of 1874 and in the
Zulu War of 1879. (3) The gun consisted of
eight or ten barrels which were arranged round
a central axis. The cartridges were carried in
a hopper above the gun and fell by their own
weignt in front of the open breech of each
barrel as it came round. By turning a crank-
handle, barrels and bolts were revolved, each
barrel being fired in succession. (4) A rate of
fire of 600 rounds a minute was possible over
limited periods; .65in. cartridges were used for
coastal defence and ships, and a lighter pattern
of .45in. calibre for military purposes.
* * * *
(1) What hotel and restaurant accommoda-
tion is available at Darwin ? (2) Is it possible
to buy or lease a half-acre or acre block within
the township; if so, price? (3) Cost of build-
ing a six-roomed bungalow-type house, using
timber, asbestos and corrugated iron ? (4) Is
labor available for work on buildings ? (5)
Would it be possible to contract one of the
construction companies now in Darwin to build
a hostel ? (6) Can supplies of water, bread,
fresh meat and vegetables be obtained locally ?
How do prices compare with those in the
southern States ? (7) Name of the Darwin
newspaper ? (8) Any reason why a restaurant
or hostel in Darwin might not be successful
even if run on efficient lines? —443l.
(1) Three hotels, a new one in the course of
construction and a number of boarding-houses.
(2) Land in the proximity of the business sec-
tion of the town is difficult to obtain and
values are rising. Information could be ob-
tained from J. C. Buscall, land agent, Darwin.
(3) (4) and (5) Quotations and other informa-
tion could be obtained from local contractors,
one of whom is A. C. Weedon. (6) Water sup-
plies will be somewhat restricted until the in-
auguration of the new water scheme now in the
course of construction. Bread, fresh meat and
vegetables may be obtained locally, although
many of the latter and a certain amount of
meat are imported from the southern States.
(7) The “Northern Standard”; editor, D. Mc-
Kinnon. (8) Given a suitable site and building
there is possibly an opening for an additional
restaurant, but it would be most advisable to
make a personal investigation before spending
money.
* * * *
How to grow daffodils in pots? —444l.
Plant one, two or three bulbs .in a pot,
according to the size, but never overcrowd.
The best potting compost is a mixture of some
good garden loam, silver sand and a little well-
decayed cow or stable manure, these ingredients
all being well mixed together. Put a few
pieces of broken pot or some similar material
in at the bottom so as to ensure good drainage.
When the flowers are in bloom give them an
occasional application of weak liquid cow
manure.
* * * *
What height does the white cherry or crab
apple (Schizomeria ovata ) reach ? A jew of its
characteristics and uses ?—4629.
It is one of the largest brush trees endemic
in Australia, attaining a height of 70ft. to 80ft.,
with a diameter of two to three feet, supported
by buttress roots. In young trees the bark is
smooth, but becomes corky with age, and
acquires a sour odor. The timber is inferior
to that of the true coachwood, which it re-
sembles, and for which it is sometimes sub-
stituted. Having no odor, unlike the bark, it
is suitable for butter boxes and fruit cases. The
fruit is white and somewhat fleshy, with an
agreeable acidity like that of loquats, but it has
no claim to be considered an edible fruit.
* * * *
Hints on growing the yew tree ? Any special
treatment when placed in a cement vase ? —4065.
Any sort of cement container thoroughly
scrubbed and allowed to rest for about a month
is suitable for a yew tree. Holes must be left
to carry off surplus drainage. Make up the
soil to medium texture, in which mix a quantity
of small stones. If the shrub makes heavy root
growth those which come near the surface
should be trimmed off. Every year a top-
dressing of soil will help the shrub. It is not
advisable to grow a yew tree in exposed posi-
tions —either too hot or very cold is unsuitable.
Some supports are necessary to sustain the
growth until the tree is established.
* * * *
I have just bought a new home. The wall
on the southern side holds dampness after rain.
How can 1 treat it ? Also what flowers can be
grown there that would absorb the moisture?
4644.
Treating the wall at least 2ft. from the
ground on both sides with oil or transparent
Solpah will stop the moisture. Treatment will
be necessary every year. Do the work while
the bricks are dry. Moisture-seeking plants
which will help you are arum lilies, hydrangeas,
physostegia and any of the long list of iris
plants. A rubble trench put down before put-
ting in plants will make the job doubly suc-
cessful.
* * * *
Some particulars regarding shrike-tits ? —4614.
Shrike-tits are greenish-yellow above and
bright yellow below, and, like the crested bell-
bird, have black erectile , crests. One species
( Palcunculus frontatus) is found throughout
eastern Australia, a second (F. leucogaster)
occurs in the south-west, and the third (F. whitet)
inhabits the extreme north of the Kimberley
divisions of W.A. The genus thus affords
a striking instance of discontinuous distribution.
Shrike-tits usually keep high up in the trees,
clambering about the small twigs and often
hanging upside down to investigate the under-
surfaces of leaves. Their nests, beautiful cup-
shaped structures, are placed among slender
branches, and are usually inaccessible. They
have, in proportion to their size, extremely
stout and powerful bills.
* * * *
A few details concerning the tunny fish ?
4560.
The tunny ( Thunnus maccoyi) is a large fish,
reaching a length of 7ft., which periodically
appears in great schools on the southern Aus-
tralian coasts, and ranges north as far as More-
ton Bay. It is essentially an oceanic species,
moving through the water with great speed and
only occasionally entering coastal inlets in
search of the smaller, school-fish (such as
mackerel) which form its prey. Tunnies are
torpedo-shaped, the fins fitting compactly into
sheaths and hollows so as to offer as little
resistance as possible to their passage through
the water. The tail is deeply forked and forms
a powerful driving-organ; the hinder portion of
its peduncle bears a series of finlets both above
and below to add power to its movements. The
flesh is very red in color and oily, but good
food. Tunny are commonly captured by big-
game fishermen off the coast of N. S. Wales,
the bait being a garfish trolled upon a light
line from a stout rod.
* * * *
How should an athlete train for (I) 100
and 220 yards, (2) 440 and 880 yards, ( 3 )
broad jump and hop-step-and-jump, (4) high
jump, (5) shot putt 2—4574.
(1) and (2) For a month take long steady
exercise over a mile to condition the muscles,
then reduce the distance and increase the pace.
For the half-mile it is especially essential to
train to strengthen your wind. (3) and (4)
In these events a great deal of attention to
muscles must be given; concentrate on “land-
ing” to avoid ankle injury. Don’t overstrain
in the early training. (5) Strive to cultivate the
knack of propulsion, strength, and ability to
keep within the circle. You will have to adapt
your methods to suit your stature.
* * * *
Whom did Ambrose Palmer knock out other
than Jack Haines and Ron Richards? —4416.
The first year Palmer boxed professionally,
in 1929, he knocked out Rex Johnson (six
rounds), Benny Moss (two) and Pud Segar (10).
Haines was the only one defeated via the short-
cut route by Palmer in 1930, but he knocked out
Son Tealey (five rounds) and Alec Stanton (four)
in 1933. He then stopped Roy De Gans (seven
rounds) in 1935; Fred Henneberry (seven) and
Johnny Miler (eight) in 1936; and De Gans
again (five) in 1937. Before Palmer knocked
out Richards he stopped Frank Rowsey (six
rounds) and Leo Kelly (eight rounds) in 1938.
* * * *
Is it permissible to connect an electric charger
of standard pattern to an existing wire fence
in N.S.W. without first obtaining permission
from the owner of the adjoining property ?
4543.
Although the commercial chargers are not
dangerous to human beings or to stock, con-
sent should be obtained from the party whose
property adjoins the fence before installing the
charger.
Brief Answers.
J.W.P.: Practical Oxy-acetylene Welding, by
R. Granjon (55.), Electric Arc and Oxy-
acetylene Welding, by E. Arthur Atkins (11s.
6d.), Oxy-acetylene Welding and Cutting, by
Stuart Plumley (325. 6d.), and The Welding
Encyclopedia, edited by Stuart Plumley (355.)
—all obtainable from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney... .0.8.M.D.: The Rising Tide of
Color Against White World-supremacy, by
Lothrop Stoddard, is probably the book you
mean. It may be available in one of the
second-hand bookshops... .E.J.M.W.: The
sun rises due east and sets due west all over
the world at the time of the equinoxes—that
is, about March 22 and September 22. When
the sun is north of the Equator it rises and
sets north of east and west respectively all
over the world, and similarly when the sun is
south of the Equator in Australia’s summer
it rises and sets south of east and west
W.S.H.: Pure Shetland ponies can be pur-
chased from A. Howie, Navua Stud, North
Richmond (N.5.W.)... J. 8.: Write Secretary,
Forestry Commission, Sydney G.H.8.:
Write Secretary, Air Board, Defence Depart-
ment, Melbourne... .H.F.: A lead coating may
be applied by spraying in accordance with the
Schoop process. The following firms under-
take this work: Australian Oxygen and In-
dustrial Gases, Ltd., Melbourne; Metal Coat-
ings, Ltd., Stanmore (N.S.W.), Metal Sprayed
Surfaces Co., North Fitzroy (Vic.); Metal
Sprayers, Mile End (S.A.); and W. J. Mills,
Leichhardt (N.S.W.) R.C.H.: (1) There
are no suit precedences in poker. (2) Equal
hands divide the pool. (3) Holder ol a pair
of jacks or higher need not open a jackpot.
(4) Player to the left of dealer always retains
right of first bet; the blind, or a straddle on
the blind, raises the price of cards to all
players. (5) A misdeal calls for a fresh deal
of all hands. (6) Royalties are a rather doubt-
ful addition to poker. Usual practice is to
pay them on all winning hands where they
appear, whether called or not. (7) Jackpot
opener is the first to discard in most schools.
..Riverina: (1) A Nazi is a member of the
National Socialist party of Germany, the
ruling and only permitted party in the Reich of
to-day. (2) A Communist, broadly speaking,
is a member of any organisation affiliated with
the central Communist organisation—the Com-
intern. (3) A pacifist is a person who for
religious or other reasons declines to perform
military service... .E.H.: Write Sane Democ-
racy League, 12 Spring-street, Sydney... .A.A.:
Xavier Herbert is an Australian. He has
written only one book, Capricornia, which
won the £250 Commonwealth Prize Novel
Competition conducted in connection with Aus-
tralia’s 150th anniversary celebrations P.F.:
Permission to republish is always readily
granted provided that acknowledgment as to
source of original publication is made—
A. 8.: While typewritten manuscripts are pre-
ferred, no objection is taken to those written
in legible handwriting... .W.T.: Write Under-
secretary, Department of Labor, Hobart
M.K.: A letter addressed to him care of this
office will be forwarded M.A.C.: Manu-
facturers dislike divulging information of this
nature. Try Bentley Bros., 159 Penshurst-street,
Penshurst (N.S.W.); Elliott, Dunn and Co.,
Ada-lane, Erskineville (N.S.W.); or C. S.
Hughes, French-street, Kogarah (N.S.W.)
J.W.D.: (1) An application for a patent must
be accompanied by a specification, either pro-
visional or complete, and drawings. The appli-
cation is to be lodged in the Patents Office,
Canberra. (2) The cost through a firm of
attorneys is usually about £5 ss. for a pro-
visional application and £24 10s. for a com-
plete application, including services, normal
Government fees, drawings, etc. (3) Drawings
and a descriptive specification are to- be sub-
mitted with claims in the case of a complete
application. The article should not be lodged.
(4) The services of an attorney should be
50ught....8.C.5.: (1) Yes. (2) The net profit
of the State brickworks was £179,271 Bs. 9d.,
and the net profit of the State Monier pipe
and reinforced concrete works was £158,664
7s. 4d.... .P.A.T.: Sydney Nautical School,
Royal Exchange Building, Bridge-street, Syd-
ney A.Q.: An old plan of Bernma
(N.S.W.) Gaol has been viewed, but does not
show the existence of any particularly small cell.
Two of the cells are furnished with two doors
approximately 28in. apart, and tradition alleges
that the enclosure between the doors was used
for the restraint of unruly prisoners. It is
possible that this is the feature to which you
refer, but the statement, that it is “the smallest
cell in any prison anywhere” cannot be con-
firmed H.L.L.: The Victoria Bridge, Penrith
(N.S.W.), was constructed 75 years ago by
Brassey and Betts, of Birkenhead, England,
expressly for railway purposes. The bridge was
abandoned for railway use when the line was
duplicated J.S.: Can see no reason why
legal proceedings could not be taken in such
a case, but if successful you may find some
practical difficulties in enforcing the judgment.
. ..L.A.D.: Before taking any action in the
matter, you should have a clear understanding
with the finance company as to the allowance
of commission in the event of a sale being
effected by you. It is quite open to dispute.
8.E.8.: Figures given were those as at the
1933 census. The Victorian Year-Book, 1936-37.
gives the estimated population of Wonthaggi
as at December 31, 1937, as 6550... .G.L.:
Get in touch with Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, 314 Albert-street, East
Melbourne....C.L.l.: Write Under-Secretary,
Department of Agriculture, Hobart ...J.D.:
Neville Chamberlain married Annie Vere Cole,
daughter of the late Major W. V. Cole, in
19 if.


PICTURE OF ARTIST STILL
WAITING FOR AN IDEA.
7/6 will be paid for any bright and
original suggestions accepted.
ft
m
TO
■ if
THE
“LONG-
REACH”
STOCK
SADDLE
£l5/16/3
(Complete)
One of the
most com-
f o rtable
saddles we
make.
N.S. ll'. Rail Freight
Paid for Cash with
Order.
Write for Saddlery
Catalogue.
WALTHER &
STEVENSON,
PTY., LTD.,
395 George St., Sydney.
If any illustration in The Bulletin takes
your fancy, write to the manager, who will
quote you price tor the original.
“AWfITEJT
the Union Company’s
23-knot express liner maintains a regular
service between Sydney, Auckland and
Wellington.
Incorporating every modern feature, the
“Awatea” sets a new standard in Trans-
Tasman travel for both first and tourist
class passengers.
All information from
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD.
(Incorporated in N.Z.)
247 George Street, Sydney. 59 William Street, Melbourne.
mmm —
———
jr
TfWfeT
83 WARS IN BATHURST
On February 12, 1851, Edward Hargreaves went prospecting for gold
and found it on a tributary of the Macquarie River at what is now Ophir,
not far from Bathurst. By the end of April Sydney was ringing with the
news, and the first Australian gold-rush started.
The Bank of New South Wales opened o branch at Bathurst on September
8, 1856. A large proportion of the gold taken from the Sofala, Hill End,
and Sunny Corner goid-fields was deposited with this Bank, from where it
was carried to Sydney by coach under the old gold escorts.
The Bank of New South Wales, from the early gold-rush days, has been
closely associated with the development of Bathurst, which is now the
centre of a district famous tor the wealth of its pastoral and agricultural
produce.
BANK of NEW SOUTH WALES
THE OLDEST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
491 A. 1939
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany. MS. should
be addressed to the Editor, not to members of the staff personally
M.C.C.: Doubt if even an ode “To America ’
would melt the Senate H.W.: Let dying
stockmen die... .E.M.R.: “Dawn” was shot....
J.McC.: “When Sol pops out announcing
Spring” we pop him rapidly in the w.p.b
J.H.: Forget your “aching soul” and every-
body’s “wretched plight” E.1.M.: “My pen
will not write all my heart tries to say.” True.
....M.K.: Not a stayer... .R.E.R.: Slight....
A.M.: “2 A.M.” the nearest... .R.M.C.:
“Sonnet of Youth and War” misses fire....
H.McD.: “I spent a few months in the district
and was so charmed that I burst into song.”
We’re taking the risk of returning the explosive
matter through the post V.M.: “Perhaps
some day by ship or ’plane I’ll go to London
once again.” It sounds more probable than
your earlier suggestion of shooting there like
an arrow... .D.R. : Waters would never croon
an ageless rune if poets didn’t have endless
troubles with their rhymes T.V.T.: Wordy.
. ...A.C.: A lightweight... .8.P.: Remarkably
good for 14 1 but wait till you’re 84 before you
a l * l ** J ma 2' n * n § you’re a dying swagman....
M.A.T.: Try a women’s paper M.R.: Ditto
for When I was a little pigtailed girl”
J.H.S.: ‘‘l have noticed that poetry is occasion-
ally published.” Not poetry like ‘The Township
in the West”... .S.J.: “Friends, Australians,
countrymen, lend me your ears.” As a matter
of fact we forgot to get them back from Mark
Antony”... .L.J.M.: “Hail Oueen of the
seasons, glorious Spring!” For the 274th time
since the beginning of August, hail!... .F.J.8.:
Too involved this time... .5.C.8.:
So over I go to Central to board the north-west
mail
To speed me back to Boggabri to enjoy old history's
trail.
Take a ticket for your Muse, t 00... .G.8.Y.:
Any one of them would send you down
to the infants’ class... .G.M.P.: It might
be true, but we can’t believe it....T.5.:
You’re getting warmer... .H.N.D.: Has its
points, but it’s not for us... .L.G.E.: An-
tiques—all of them... .C.S.T.: “Drinking
Acquaintance” fraternising with others of his
ilk in the w.p.b F.T.R.: Flappers should
lap it up C.D.L.: You must have had a
wonderful time... .J.8.R.: Try the literary
supplement of a daily... .V.T.: “Springs
Chicken” will have to find another coop
G.T.A.: It might be passable, but it’s not pub-
lishable G.H.R.: “Insult” —to a reader’s
intelligence... .L.F.D., C.N.R., P.R.C., K.R.:
Try them elsewhere... .G.C.T.: No room here
for the Indian Army... .F.R.L.: Not bad, but
try your hand at something lighter C.R.L.:
Don’t leave it in public view G.T.N.: Too
slick... .V.R.N.: Detectives chewing their
pipes and crooks looking furtively under their
brows are twopence a dozen C.D.L.:
Borderline stuff G.8.R.: No need to say
“Beware” T.N.P.: Not even a crumb in
that “literary morsel” H.T.S.: You’re
writing too much and not paying enough atten-
tion to what you write... .L.F.R.; You’ll need
more oil than that to “launch into the literary
stream”... .C.8.T.: Too many words and not
enough meat... .G.8.D.: Nothing there.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
8.L.: Jest had whiskers long before Queen
Victoria sat on the throne H.A.: We’ve
seen that deadbeat much too often for our
liking... .J.8.G.: More like a picture of a heap
of fishhooks than anything else... .R. 8.:
Neither lasted the first round... .H.P.: A hope-
less array of blots, smudges and scratchy lines.
. ...F.W.W.: Wooden figures and under-
nourished gag... .H.S.C.: Looks like a close-
up of a battle between soldier crabs... . D.T.:
Hard to tell which is the cannibal chief and
which the cooking pot... .B.B.: Linework lacks
confidence, jokes devoid of humor... .C.N.N.:
Wash drawing is a pale and watery effort....
E.A.: Humor is much too juvenile for us
LJ.: We left Grandfather to his fireworks, and
the newchum is riding home on the bu 11....
L.R.M.: Not interested in colored sketches.
. ...A.8.A.: Gent, with arms sprouting from
the middle of his back calls for an urgent
operation... .N.C.: The drawing doesn’t illus-
trate the joke... .H.M.J.: Figures seem to be
built out of a stack of barbers’ p01e5....
W.C.8.: Venetian-blind gag is an old favorite
among schoolkids... .H.M.: Clubmen is snor-
ing off his jag in the w.p.b A.P.K.: You
might reach publication standard in the distant
future... .M.G.: Not wanting the bandy-
legged lifesaver 8.L.: If you turn up our
back files you’ll run across that jest G.S.:
Not so bad, but could be very much better.
FROM CHINA TO PERU.
When Castlereagh and Palmerston
were Foreign Secretaries, they were privy
to all the secrets of Europe. At Prussian
Tilsit in 1807 Napoleon and Alexander,
the mysterious Tsar, arranged to carve
up the continent and huge portions
adjacent. A Foreign Office man knew
all the terms of the treaty before they had
left the moored river boat on which the
interesting pair signed it. Britain needs
a few daring agents like that, as well as
a swift and final return to the “Empire-
First” policy.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Melbourne lent the Van
Eyck ‘Tnce Hall Madonna” for exhibi-
tion at New York’s World’s Fair. A
U.S. magazine says it’s one of the best
things in a show of 400 paintings repre-
sentative of every major movement in
European art up to 1800, and, tiny as it
is, the “Ince Hall Madonna”—an Bfin.
by 6in. painting on wood—is “in the
eyes of connoisseurs worth an exhibition
all by itself; it seems less a miniature
than a heroic picture seen through a
small window.”
* * * *
“Si Anu”: The film appeal committee
which guards the morals and nurses the
political opinions of the half-million poly-
glot inhabitants of Singapore first held
up and subsequently released “Confes-
sions of a Nazi Spy,” after a furious con-
troversy had raged in the island press.
Another film dealing with the escape of
five British officers from a German prison
camp was banned because it showed Ger-
mans being brutal, and was also let go.
The local press fought for the release of
the films on the ground that German
susceptibilities should not be considered
until German propagandists abandoned
hostility towards Britain. It is safe to
say that the vast majority of the native
populace of Singapore scarcely distin-
guish between an Englishman, a Ger-
man, a Dutchman, a Russian or a Dane.
A white man is a symbol for the ruling
race, and British prestige rests on the
prestige of the whole white race. No-
thing did more damage to British prestige
in China than the spectacle of German
civilians, under sentence of deportation
during the last war, being herded through
the streets of Shanghai by Chinese sol-
diers. Similar spectacles are continually
being confected by Hollywood, with the
boot now on one foot and now on an-
other.
* * * *
From London: Members of the Lon-
don Stock Exchange are dubious about
the Board of Trade inquiry into the
affairs of the De BernalesWestralian group
giving satisfaction to all concerned. As
regards the rejection of De Bernales’s
appeal against the Exchange committee’s
refusal to allow dealings in the shares
of his concerns, they point out that the
Exchange has rules and requirements of
its own not covered by the Companies
Act, and that it was non-compliance with
these which led the committee to take
drastic action. Capital reduction of Com-
monwealth Mining and Finance, Ltd.,
whose shares were the first to be banned
by the committee, was recently confirmed
by the Chancery Division of the High
Court. Such reduction of capital pro-
vides for the nominal value of the shares
coming down from ss. to 2s. 6d.
* * * *
On the credit side of the refugee ledger
in Victoria may be placed two recruits
to the Baker Institute for Medical Re-
search in Melbourne. They are Dr. Ernst
Singer, former Professor of Bacteriology
at the German University of Prague, and
Dr. Paul Fantl, former director of the
biological and chemical laboratory at the
Wilhelminen Hospital at Vienna. First-
named comes from London, and the
latter from Jamaica. Dr. Singer has made
basic researches into chemico-therapy,
and was recommended to the Melbourne
institution by the director of the Lister
Institute (Eng.).
* * * *
“Skinner”: If the young French artist
who pinched the Watteau from the
Louvre in order to save it from the re-
storer (B. 23/8/’39) goes to prison, he
may share a cell with another artist
whose offence was also claimed to have
done art a benefit—Millet’s grandson,
who was convicted of copying his illus-
trious ancestor’s pictures and forging his
signature to new ones. To do this he
had to be an exceptionally talented
artist. If his forging of his grandfather’s
pictures deserved punishment, so did the
inability of the experts to detect the
difference between his work and the
original Millet’s. A Melbourne artist
picked up a picture in Paris for 20 francs
which he is quite sure is an early Corot.
If it had a signature, an Australian Gal-
lery would give him several thousands
for it, but without the signature not one
of them would give him twopence.
* * * *
“El V.” on Australian diplomats:
With the appointment of Reg Leeper as
minister to Rumania, two Australians are
neighbors in the steering of British diplomacy
in turbulent Central Europe. Next door, at
Budapest, Sydneian Geoffrey Knox, who, as
Chairman of the Governing Commission,
steered the Saar through its last difficult days
under the League, has been Ambassador since
1935. Leeper is a son of Alexander Leeper,
who for 42 years was warden of Trinity College,
Melb. Uni. Exuberant Australian papers have
credited him with owing his appointment to
a knowledge of Middle East languages, admit-
tedly great. Actually he won his spurs as an
administrator. A job as minister will not be
new to him, for he has acted as charge
d’affaires in Warsaw, where he was stationed
for years, in Turkey, at Riga and in Albania.
When I met him in Constantinople in 1926 he
was full of the ability of S. M. Bruce, whom
he had followed as dux of Melbourne
Grammar. His brother Alex., a year older,
had an even more promising career in front
of him when he died a few years ago. Alex.,
also a fine linguist, had been Lord Curzon’s
private secretary, First Secretary to the Lega-
tion at Vienna and First Secretary of the
Foreign Office.


THE OTHER
FELLOW'S
MIND.
Every week there is a first prize of £3 35., and everything published is paid
for (the winning contribution included) at fair trade-union rates.
For the second time since this competition was launched the prize is awarded
to a valued contributor to all publications, Anon. The first case was that of a
Victorian militiaman; he divulged no official secret, but he might have been carpete
had the name been published. In the second instance “Triparens,” identified, might
strike domestic trouble in large quantities; and there is trouble enough in this world.
Compulsory Saving for Men
Not only girls need State help in
saving, as “Quadriparens” (B. 16/8/’39)
avers girls do. I, too, have daughters
who have earned, spent and then mar-
ried. Their husbands were 25, 33 and 34
years old at the time of marriage.
Under our system of regarding any
male earner aged 21 as a married man
with (according to basic-wage award
computation in different industrial juris-
dictions) wife and from 1J to three chil-
dren, those three had had respectively
four, 12 and 13 years on family wages,
guaranteed by a forethoughtfully grate-
ful tax- and price-paying community, in
which to provide for a wife and children
when those appendages were acquired.
I did not expect the 25-year-old to
have much of a bankroll, but neither
Thirty-three nor Thirty-four when he
became engaged had a bean stowed
away; all had every year spent their
surplus over living expenses on sport,
clothes, holidays, having a current good
time, and (I’ll be fair) on the girls they
had chosen.
Forced to it by their engagements, the
three bucked in to raise cash. The girl
who had selected the 25-year-old took
a chance with him in a furnished flat,
keeping her job till the baby came, and
he had a few pounds put by.
Thirty-three borrowed the means
wherewith to marry and keep house.
Thirty-four kept his mate waiting (and
still earning for herself and the two of
them) till he was ready—two years.
The net result was that two women
remained in employment nearly two
years longer than they should have done,
two babies were delayed for three years,
and Business had 11 and 12 years’
pickings out of money that should have
been accumulating at interest in the ser-
vice of those earlier marriages politicians
and statisticians say are so essential to
the common weal.
Business is, of course, as much for
the present system as is organised em-
ployeedom, but the experience of my
family yells for a system more economic
for the community. Triparens
(N.S.W.).
Goldmine or not, it is absolutely unfair
that girls have jobs and spend freely
whilst idle youths are gripped by despair.
And how can the furious squandering of
“Q.’s” four daughters possibly be termed
“enterprise”? Enterprise is shown by
the average youth who, saving steadily,
finally amasses enough to enable him to
settle down and have a family, facing
life with courage and hope. Handing
oneself over “virtually penniless” to a
hard-working male seems a pretty selfish
way to commence married life, doesn’t it?
Girls are certainly having the time of
their lives, but if it is at the expense of
the young man, the potential provider,
they’re going to suffer in the long run.
They regard their jobs as stopgaps until
the “right one” comes along, heedless of
the fact that they are displacing youths
at a vital time of their lives. Unless a
youth has learnt a trade or acquired a
steady job by the time he is 21 his future
it precarious.
Endeavoring to satisfy feminine tastes
is having a detrimental effect in many
spheres. For instance, our newspapers
have reduced the amount of sound read-
ing matter and introduced women’s
supplements, “society” blither and Holly-
wood “news.”
Personally, I believe that woman’s real
place is in the home, and it is high time
this pecuniary preference for women in
business and industrial jobs was elimi-
nated by the introduction of equal pay
for the sexes.— Crusader (N.S.W.).
The Casual Aussie
“Plain Bill” asks (B. 16/8/’39) why we
don’t “cheer good old John Bull as we
never cheered before.” The answer is
simple: Unnecessary displays of senti-
ment are foreign to our nature. This is
why the Australian sometimes fails to
acknowledge the National Anthem in as
marked a manner as he might. It’s not
through any lack of loyalty—his record
in the Empire’s wars is proof enough of
that. Being a simple, casual bloke, how-
ever, he’d sooner have a joke than take
things too seriously ; for, without doubt,
a joke does help things along. Shak-
speare, as usual, put the matter neatly
when he said: “A merry heart goes all
the day, A sad one tires in a mile.” —
W. B. D. (S.A.).
“Shopkeepers” ?
After strenuous Gallipoli and Western
Front experience, Napoleon’s thrust at
the “nation of shopkeepers” has, off and
on, annoyed me for 20-odd years. Now,
after reading in “S.M.H.” of 28/8/’39
of Germany’s “regardless-of-cost” pur-
chases of rubber and cotton from Britain
—commodities likely to be required any
moment by Thomas Atkins —I am en-
lightened.—Digger (N.S.W.).
The Japanese Fellow’s Mind
In a book published in Tokio and dedi-
cated to the friends of Japan in America
a Japanese deals with the ideals of
his countrymen as expressed in art,
literature, drama, architecture and land-
scape gardening.
The general impression left on the
reader’s mind is that the Nipponese, in-
dividually and as a race, are without
spot or blemish. They are cleanly in
their habits, honest in their dealings,
patriotic in their sentiments, supersensi-
tive to beauty in all its forms, and pro-
foundly religious.
History and legend are quoted to
prove that the hardest hearts of their
stoutest warriors can be melted to the
point of mercy and forgiveness by the
sound of music, the grace of a poetic
couplet, or the charming color and con-
tour of a tea-caddy. When they fall
from grace and are ashamed before their
fellows they act as their own judge and
executioner —in a highly moral, hygienic,
patriotic, artistic and religious manner.
Every citizen will almost casually lay
down his life for the Emperor and the
national cause.
The book is eminently truthful, but
it follows the best traditions of inter-
national propaganda by showing only
one side of the medal. It is not likely
to be a best seller in China for some
time, but it, is. useful in showing that
those who were once our allies are
not altogether as black as they are
painted by some of their enemies. It
proves that they possess at least some
of the virtues of which we proudly boast.
The vices, so carefully hidden from view
of the reader, are, alas, not-a Japanese
monopoly.— Aussie Fellow (S.A.).
A Christian Spirit
I viewed the proposed entry and subse-
quent influx of Jewish refugees into this
country with mixed feelings—mostly hos-
tile. Certainly I was never deluded into
thinking, as our Glorious Press would
have us believe, that these hereditarily
urban dwellers would become agricul-
turists.
However, now that we are faced with
a fait accompli we might as well become
resigned to it and be thankful that there
are some very talented people among
them. Time alone will accurately assess
the wisdom of the action.
At least, in receiving these exiles into
our midst to enjoy the same measure of
liberty as ourselves, we have shown a
truly Christian spirit. Let us, then, in
our future attitude towards them main-
tain this spirit. God knows, there has
never been a more urgent need for a uni-
versal Christian feeling among peoples
than at the present time.— Peter Piper
(N.S.W.).
Were the Pioneers Lucky?
They should be admired for their
“guts,” but the habit of fulsome, uncon-
ditional praise should be modified.
The officers of the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture have a term
for the reckless, exploiting type of
farming: “pioneering.” It sounds'
almost blasphemous, but isn’t it true?
The pioneers were pillagers. They
ruthlessly destroyed timber because burn-
ing was the easiest way to deal with it.
It didn’t worry them that their descen-
dants might need it (that they wouldn’t
even have enough for firewood, as has
happened frequently); that it would leave
the land vulnerable to erosion by wind
and water ; that it would result in rivers
being alternately flooded and dried up,
expensive dams silted, and irrigation and
hydro-electric schemes jeopardised.
They destroyed every native animal
either because it might eat a few blades
of grass or for “sport.” If they had a
good season their stock had plenty to
eat; if not, they let them starve.
The truth is they were gamblers. And
they could take risks because in those
days there was always a chance of mak-
ing a fresh start; not like to-day, when a
man who loses his capital is doomed to
the labor market and the fear of the dole.
Taking it all round, I think that
pioneering was great fun compared with
the grind of most modern occupations.
There was a thrill about grappling with
the primitive that must have been very
gratifying to the pioneers’ ego. They
knew that they were providing a secure
future for themselves and their families.
Who wouldn’t jump at a chance of doing
that now?—E. O. S. (N.S.W.).
Striking in Reverse
In the normal order of things, when
the working man goes out on strike he
does so because of something he dislikes.
But in Maoriland, where the most extra-
ordinary things can happen in the poli-
tical and industrial spheres, the customary
process has been put into reverse gear.
The waterside workers at Wellington and
Lyttleton are striking against something
they like very much —they are quarrel-
ling with their beer.
It came about in this way. Frantically
searching for new revenue to sustain the
top-heavy economic structure it has
created, the Government put more taxes
on petrol and beer. The petrol impost left
the watersiders cold, but when the hotels
raised the price of their national beverage
they promptly brought into play their
well-known technique of direct action.
Until the “handle,” the familiar symbol
and insignia of their leisure, was restored
to its historic price, these watersiders
“took the pledge” of total abstinence. In
a curious and mystical sense they became
active and militant crusaders of the White
Ribbon League.
In this novel and unaccustomed role,
they declared with single-minded resolu-
tion that they would no more visit hotels.
No more would the small beer of discus-
sion flow on how much cargo they would
load or unload, nor would the nobler
brew be drawn from its barrels until the
price of their “handles” was reduced. The
grimness of their determination has in it
a quality that is almost heroic. It in-
volves a supreme act of self-sacrifice, the
repudiation of something very dear to
the soul of the watersider. Inevitably it
calls to mind the self-immolation of the
martyrs.
But can the watersiders bring to this
new trial of strength the brave stubborn-
ness of glorious fights of the past? Can
their sober resolve endure against the
onslaught of a thirst unslaked? Perhaps
to-night and to-morrow night a valiant
forbearance may bring a sense of virtue
in loyalty to a noble cause. But what of
Saturday night when the long, long 40-
hour week has dragged to a perspiring
close? He would be a bold man who
did not say that in this struggle the hotels
were starting an easy favorite. For do
they not, in fact, hold all the winning
“handles’ ? ? — C. J. Macan (M.L.).
The New Anzacs
An original Anzac salutes the new
Anzacs, the men who to-day are training
to defend Australia against any comer!
Who was it said the Australians were
deteriorating? Tell them that over 300
of the members of the 26th Western
Queensland Battalion (infantry) are six-
footers, and well built. This fine unit
was started on June 28, 1939, recruits
being drawn from Longreach, Winton,
Hughenden, Richmond, Julia Creek and
Cloncurry districts. Station-owners,
station-managers, jackeroos, stockmen
and other station employees, as well as
young townies have joined ; all are men
who are used to work, and are in perfect
physical condition. Military training for
them will be “pie,” for they are fit physi-
cally and mentally—their brothers in the
Australian Light Horse regiments showed
the great benefits gained from being used
to thinking and acting for themselves.
With sufficient regiments such as the 26th
W.Q. Regiment prepared to defend her,
Australia need not fear enemies. . .
Colonel Harry Murray, V.C., etc., is in.
command of the 26th. Captain Towner,
V.C., etc. (Longreach), is a company
commander. —ASQ (N.Q.).
Shorter Hours and Leisure
The supporters of shorter working
hours are increasing. With the introduc-
tion of machinery into industry, the
working day was reduced by 30 p.c.
from twelve to eight hours. Mass pro-
duction is a new phase of the machine
age, and we are again doing the world’s
work without absorbing nearly all our
man-power. A further general reduction
of working hours seems indicated. But
the question of leisure, recently raised in
the O.F.M. columns, is a greater ques-
tion than at first appears.
Knight Frederick Stewart, commenting
on the decision of the Court on the 44-
hour week, hinted at an alternative to
a drastic reduction of the working week
in a system for a shorter working life.
This would go a long way toward solving
the leisure problem. Education may help
by training youth to make pleasant and
profitable use of leisure time ; but in the
meantime added leisure may become a
menace rather than a blessing. In facing
the problem of unemployment we might
well consider the advantages of a shorter
working life over the shorter working
week. A system of compulsory retire-
ment at a much earlier age, with adequate
provision for a comfortable pension,
would give youth a chance of work and
transfer the added leisure to the later
years of life, when character has steadied,
interests have deepened and physical
strength is on the wane. Leisure would
then become a wonderful boon before
old age had robbed life of its zest. —
G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
The Vice-regal Glad Rags
For months we have been deluged with
a mass of publicity regarding the activi-
ties of the Governor-General-elect and
his lady. We have suffered from details
of furnishings, uniforms, dresses, nursery
appointments, personal staff, etc., ad
nauseam.
Now we get choice items regarding the
vice-regal lodge:
The chief feature will be a minimum
of furniture and a maximum of space,
but a small fortune will be involved
The bedroom of the Duchess will be in a
fuss-free style It is understood that
the house linen cost £5000.... Sheets for
the bed of the Duchess will be of peach-
colored satin, the edges costing £5O a
pair.... The afternoon-tea cloths will be
decorated with dancing elephants.
Now, I am an Australian, an ex-service-
man and a loyal British subject, but this
tripe gets into my works. The ostenta-
tious flaunting of enormous expenditure
on super-luxury is a vulgarity that Aus-
tralians at least do not associate with or
expect from the British royal family.
If these reports are false in general, it
is time that some authority stepped in
and forced the offending press to pub-
lish denials and apologies in prominent
places. — Thomas S. Moore (Q.).
Thoughts of a Thirty-niner
Here I sit, perilously close to 40, a
husband and father. I’ve just been won-
dering what I shall be like when I’m 60,
if I last that long. What’s to become
of us all?
Europe is mad, the Orient seems to
be throwing off the shackles of the Occi-
dent, America is blowing hot and cold on
important international questions, arms
and still more arms are being made and
men and still more men being trained to
use them. What’s it all about? What
is Danzig to me that I may be called
upon to try to kill some man like
myself, whom I’ve never seen, because
this or that side wants it? Is it an
El Dorado that nations are ready to spill
their best blood for it? Surely it is some-
thing more than a rather obscure city on
the little-known Baltic Sea!
A great fuss has just been made about
an arrangement between Russia and Ger-
many, and I’ve been extremely diverted
by the frantic efforts of a broadcast-
ing professor to keep up with Slav
juggling. The papers, too, until to-day
constantly assuring me of a great ally in
Russia, seem to have gone bilious with
cables they can’t digest. Are there any
normal people in Europe who play
games, and dig in the garden, and love
their wives and kids, and buy their mates
a drink occasionally? Or is the place
full of tanks, bombers, troops, blood-
lusting dictators? The latter, if my
papers are correct.
I can’t raise a smile by looking nearer
home. My country can produce more


than it can eat and wear, it cries out for
shrewd development from Rabaul to the
Leeuwin, it has in its hands a destiny to
make older and (now) greater lands en-
vious, it has a race which has impressed
the world with its achievements in all
branches of human endeavor. Yet there
are people with not enough to eat and
wearing rags! There are thousands of
men seeking work for their hands and
brains in vain! Its destiny is being suf-
focated under a stupendous heap of over-
and misgovernment! Its sons and daugh-
ters must go to other lands to have their
talents appreciated and to reap rewards
denied them at home!
The trouble with me is I’m nearly 40.
The enthusiasm and optimism of youth
are fading. But I’ve still my love for
Australia ; I’m still ready to do what I
can for her. But what can I do? lam
no demagogue, no politician, no mover of
men. I know my limitations, as do thou-
sands and thousands of my fellows. Yet
there are things we would do, given the
lead and the chance. We know there is
nothing for us in Communism, nor in
Fascism. We are those who wish to
march along the Australian road. We
are mustered, we are ready. Who will
take the lead?—lo-8-1900 (N.S.W.).
“Hearse-tralia?”—A Resurrection
In Gerald Dillon’s first paragraph (B.
23/8/’39) we are assured that life in
Australia is gloomy, largely because of
the absence of night life, it appears. In
the last par. the native himself is pre-
sented as a cheerful cow. That’s one up
for the Aussie; he is cheerful in gloomy
surroundings!
History? We have 151 years (nearly),
all we can manage at present. In a thou-
sand years we’ll have more, and all the
backgrounds and traditions we need —•
perhaps too many. Have turned up a
book by Jose, perhaps wrongly called
History of Australasia. Here are some
of the headings: “Riot and Mutiny” ;
“The Crossing of the Blue Mountains” ;
“The Beginnings of Freedom”; “The
Coming of Self - government”; and
“Charles Sturt” —just the name, yet
enough. The man and his vision of an
inland sea have always stirred me more
than the tales of kings and pageantry,
of wars and intolerance, than all the
“old, unhappy, far-off things.”
If the Australian does not know where
he is going he only shares his bewilder-
ment with the rest of the world. But he
knows where he’ll be every 25 years any-
way—bogged in the quagmires of Europe.
We are not even suitable material for
the writer, says G.D. We are born, we
love, hate and die much the same as else-
where, and that is all the writer has ever
needed—backgrounds, histories and tradi-
tions are secondary.
It seems about time too that a small
bomb was placed under the whole theory
of gloom and Australian * literature.
Danny Delacy is a grand old optimist
to the last, and what of “The Quarter-
master”? Professor Murdoch’s essays are
far from morbid, Lawson even has a
smile in “The Drover’s Wife” ; and who
but an Australian could make figures of
fun out of Dad and Dave? —M. M.
(N.S.W.).
I agree with G.D. We have our humor-
ous writers, but does any of them pretend
to be giving us a picture of life as it occurs
around them? The Bulletin’s humor-
ous stories are mostly exaggerations, fan-
tasies or farces. The only popular
humorous Australian novels I can call
to mind at‘ the moment were about
characters who didn’t sober all the way
through.
Our writers appear to think that the
Australian is not funny until he is drunk ;
and aren’t they right? When you hear
about a party being “bright,” you don’t
conclude that the people were brilliant
and witty; you know that they were
drunk enough to think they were. Smell
the breath of any Australian who looks
happy ; it’s alcoholic. Nothing else will
make him cheery. Love, money, health,
leisure, sunshine—none of these can do
it; each produces some kind of melan-
choly or anxiety. Even the unemployed
are gloomy—because they can’t get
enough beer. —E. O. S (N.S.W.).
The Nazi-Red Alliance
People of a sceptical frame of mind
who jib at the articles “From Our
Special Representative” or “from reli-
able sources” appearing monotonously in
the dailies will smile in an “I-told-you-
so” attitude now that Russia’s Com-
munists have been exposed for the
double-dealers they are.
Their diabolically efficient propaganda
machine, so effective in Spain, has been
unable to gloss over the distasteful pic-
ture of the Red-Nazi agreement. If this
agreement has done nothing more it has
made people think, something they have
not done for a long time. Although used
to Red methods, this is one revolutionary
change that has left the local lads gasp-
ing.—Resnem (N.S.W.).
The Bulletin’s consistently antago-
nistic attitude to an alliance with Russia
was justified by the German-Soviet
pact; but after the first shock we
cannot help feeling rather glad that
Russia put over this double-cross before
the commencement of actual war, instead
of leaving betrayal of her allies until the
war was well advanced, as occurred in
the World War. — Oswald Sinnott (Tas.).
The Russian bear has preferred the
society of the German eagle to the British
lion. Very many Britishers rejoice. When
Ivan sits back at ease reading his de luxe
copy of Mein Kampf and absorbing the
endearments of the author, he cart appre-
ciate that he is in congenial company.
Whatever the outcome of the European
pell-mell, Great Britain has had a signal
victory in escaping a hug from the bear.
Our Great Dailies have had to chew the
“This meat's a bit 'igh !”
“Well, we ain't on the ground floor, you know."
leek, and found it rankly indigestible.
The Bulletin denounced the proposed
pact resolutely, fearlessly, emphatically.
The Bulletin was right.—Fitzjay
(N.S.W.).
The Nursing Career
A shortage of nurses (B. 16/8/’39) does
not mean that the lassies don’t take up
nursing. They do, but the weak ones fall
by the wayside, and the others, given
great chances of meeting people, marry
early. The young girl who looks to nurs-
ing for her future career must guard
against becoming hard and cruel with-
out giving any cause for gossips to
sniff. In no other profession is there so
much temptation, and she is a strong
character who comes through sweet-
natured, gentle and womanly. Jade
(Q-).
Bee v. Koala
By all means, “Bee-eater” (B.
23/8/’39), “eat more honey,” but not at
the expense of the koala, please! The
plaintive “monkey-bear” has won his
way into the hearts of visitors from all
over the world, but he is fast becoming
extinct, and I’m sure that “8.-e.” would
be the last to hasten his end, willingly.
While those versed in theoretical
“ologies” relating to our flora and fauna
may disagree, bushlore will back my con-
tention that the bee and the koala can-
not live long together in the same belt
of land, and it is always the koala who
goes to the wall. The bee is responsible
for the hybrid eucalyptus-trees which
dominate the forests of the mainland.
The koala’s food-tree must be the pure
species, but the bee carries, and inter-
mingles, the pollen of every species, so
that the advance of the bee means the
retreat of the koala bear.
Philip Island (Vic.) is a natural pres-
ervation park for the koala, but it
doesn’t seem to have dawned on any but
bushmen that the reason is simply that
Philip Island is an island. It should be
well known that bees find great difficulty
in crossing water. The proposed bridge
from San Remo to Philip Island, while
a boon to the motorist, will be just a
pain in the stomach to the koala, for
the entry of the bee into his domain will
result in the gradual disappearance of his
food-trees. Exit koala! It may well be
that, in drinking his “traditional beverage
of mead,” “8.-e.” will be draining the
lifeblood of a native Australian. — Nairb
(Vic.).
“Good Old John Bull!”
Under this heading in B. 16/8/’39,
“Plain Bill” suggested that we owe John
Bull a debt of gratitude for his efforts to
preserve the sanity of the world. John
Bull, in the form of his representative
Tommy Atkins, is also doing another job
which should be announced in huge head-
lines throughout Australia.
In a tiny cemetery at the village of
Leighterton in Gloucestershire (England)
are the graves of 23 Australians, members
of the Australian Flying Corps, who were
killed in aeroplane accidents or died of
illness in 1917, 1918 and 1919.
On the Sunday after Anzac Day each
year members of the British Legion and
the general public assemble for a parade
and service to do honor to our dead com-
rades. The Legion wreath is placed on
the commemoration stone in the centre of
the cemetery, and the children and Boy
Scouts place posies of primroses, gathered
from the woods, on each grave. The flags
of the various branches of the Legion are
lowered in salute, while the “Last Post”
is played.
On April 30 this year 20 branches of
the British Legion were represented, there
being 500 ex-servicemen and 1000
civilians in attendance—and, mark you,
on the wettest day of the year.
Can you picture it —a tiny cemetery
lined with eucalypts, 20 flags lowered in
salute, while 1500 English folk are pay-
ing homage to the memory of our boys?
This has been going on now for 10
years, and my correspondent informs me
that “while there is a British Legion the
parade will continue.”
Yes, “Plain Bill,” I think that John
Bull is doing more than his share, and
deserves our lasting gratitude. Such
actions as this should be given publicity
throughout Australia. Weickhardt,
Ex-A.F.C. (Vic.).
The Woman Smoker
Sydney daily papers recently gave
space to the criticism by a group of
women at their U.A.P. conference on our
bright young things 'smoking in
restaurants. No attack was made on the
menfolk, and, of course, middle-aged
women were exempt.
Being one of the offenders, and visiting
restaurants at least once a day, I can’t
help noticing the number of women be-
yond the 50 mark who smoke before and
after their meals. The pathetic part is
that the majority do not inhale the smoke,
but merely make the place stuffy because
they wish to be modern. It is pathetic,
as they believe they are creating the im-
pression of being broadminded, whereas
they are only losing respect in the eyes
of the younger generation.—J. M. Brown
(N.S.W.).
Medicine
Why do chemists always make up pre-
scriptions in large quantities? Many of
us have often paid shillings for some
medicine or ointment most of which goes
to waste. For the person on the basic
wage this is a big item. Medicines, etc.,
are an extra expense, one not catered
for by the officials who are so apt at
working out how easily a family can
live on the basic wage, and if one has
to have them it means that something
else has to be done without. Con-
sequently it is an added burden to have
to pay for double the quantity one needs.
In Great Britain chemists make up
small amounts of medicines. They don’t
supply an 8oz. bottle when probably only
a tablespoonful will be used from it.
Both doctors and chemists are to blame
for the present state of affairs and if
only the doctors would make a stand and
write prescriptions out for only the
amount they think will be actually needed
it would make things much easier for the
person on a small wage.—C. (Q.).
‘ ‘Produce! Produce!”
Supporters of Maoriland’s Labor Gov-
ernment claim that the big financial in-
terests are trying to embarrass it. That
is probably true. Opponents, however,
assert that Maoriland’s present difficulties
are due to an unsound financial policy.
That also is probably true. Owing to a
clash of ideas in the Labor party there is
a hesitancy which is clearly resulting in
a muddled mixture of orthodox and un-
orthodox finance.
But one of the greatest factors which
threaten to wreck the efforts of the Gov-
ernment is the attitude of many of the
workers it is trying to help. Too many
of them imagine that, with their own
party in power, they can look on the
Government as a benevolent Santa Claus
who can conjure from the air soft jobs
and good pay for everyone.
These workers do not understand, or
will not understand, that a country’s
wealth and standards of living are wholly
dependent on what the country can pro-
duce. It does not matter whether we
have a capitalist system or a socialist
system—if the volume of production drops
real wages must also drop.
Some of the workers seem to think
that the problem is so simple that it is
merely a case of taxing the rich and
giving to the poor. But under capitalism
the rich have no taxable wealth unless
the workers produce. And, even under
a completely socialised distribution of
wealth, the wealth will first have to be
produced.
Until every worker realises this there
can be no real and universal rise in the
standards of living.— Heretaunga (M.L.).
What the Other Fellow Reads
Some men can’t pass a pub. Others
can’t pass a second-hand bookshop.
When visiting a strange city the first
thing that attracts me is a display of cast-
off literature. Not only in Australia but
in Britain the windows are all much the
same in character. Are they an index
to the mind of the man in the street, or
only an index to his pocket? In either
case the impression is rather depressing.
A description of one window will do
for the lot. On the top shelf is a well-
bound multi-volume, History of the
Great War. Dirt cheap ; it has been there
a long time. It rubs shoulders with a
12-volume encyclopaedia. The wisdom of
the ages is offered for a few shillings.
Next shelf holds a selection of sombre
theological works, written by solemn
sages for the regeneration of the world.
You can have your pick for a bob each.
Then a range of classics in prose and
verse. Scott, Dickens, Cervantes, Long-
fellow, Carlyle, Whittier, Milton and the
rest of the mob of highbrow immortals
who have stirred the heart and moulded
the mind of mankind —almost given
away, but no buyers.
On a level with the eye is a good selec-
tion of oven-fresh publications, quasi-
medical and altogether sexological. These


are not priced. The frank titles sell them-
selves, and evidently they are best-sellers.
Below them, and on the ground-line, is
a whole library of the latest brand-new
manuals on card games, conjuring tricks,
dancing, boxing, slimming, hypnotism,
interpretation of dreams, crossword
puzzles, astrology and so on. These seem
to have a ready sale from sixpence up.
An optimist and a pessimist might
come to different conclusions after trying
to read the other fellow’s mind through
such a display. — Bookworm (S.A.).
Plain Dirt
Asa modem youth I have always been
quick to howl down the “wowser ’ who
suggests that there is a trend towards
moral deterioration among the present
generation, but sometimes I wonder. A
recent visit to a vaudeville show had me
gasping, blushing and wishing I was any-
where but beside the sweet damsel who
had accompanied me. There was a time
when broadminded people enjoyed a bit
of sparkling wit that edged on the blue
borderline, but nowadays nothing is left
to the imagination. Vaudeville producers
have sacrificed clever wit, and now de-
pend mainly upon unadulterated filth to
attract the crowds. What is more, the
mob seems to like it. So much so that
I went home that evening wondering
whether the show really could have been
so bad after all, or if I was just no longer
the broadminded young fellow I had
always thought myself.—G. H. A. (Q.).
“Please Add Exchange”
We certainly do have to pay for living
in the country, and, though it may seem
only a minor point, there is one thing
that irks me considerably. That is,
“Please add exchange to country
cheques.”
Whether we send for drapery, groceries
or hardware, whether we are paying in-
come or relief tax, thpre, affixed at the
bottom of the account, is the “please
add exchange” memo. However, if the
positions are reversed and someone is
sending us a cheque, no exchange is
added. “Please add exchange to country
cheques” should work both ways.— Coll
(Q-).
Currency and Cowrie Shells
The winning contributor to O.F.M. of
August 2 got a bit tangled in his com-
parison between No. 1 and 2 companies.
To start with, No. 1 has 25 p.c. more
capital than No. 2, and that mysterious
8 p.c. profit—in what currency is it made?
Mr. Lake also gibes at the cowrie
currency, but, apart from the better last-
ing and handling qualities of gold, cowries
are just as logical as a basis of exchange.
The trouble was that the “Cowrie Bloc”
was not so powerful as the “Gold Bloc,”
and so it could be exploited by the more
powerful interests, just as the silver cur-
rencies are, to a lesser degree, exploited
to-day. In primitive times harvests were
stored, and this is what the people had
to live upon. Then money was intro-
duced as a convenient means of exchang-
ing goods, and, in effect, storing them.
Then some enemy of the human race
became a usurer and found that if he
had enough goods “stored” in his money
he need do no more work —he could live
on the country and still keep his goods.
He was the bloke who turned a servant
into a master —in fact, into a dictator.
Actually, inflation has been going on
for many years. Protection introduced
the inflationary movement. Broadly, it
has continued in spite of booms and
slumps. Then an attempt was made to
return to the gold standard, with disas-
trous results, and so it has been decided
that a gentle inflation is the best anti-
dote to slumps (economics seems to be
more than 50 p.c. psychology). But in-
flation has doubled the costs of our ex-
portable primary produce, though for
many reasons, and obscure ones, too.
their money values have not kept pace
with overseas inflationary movements.
One sore point about even a gentle in-
flation is that the bloke who has his goods
“stored” finds, in spite of his comfort-
able rake-off each year, that the goods
themselves slightly depreciate in value —
the mice are at them!
But, anyhow, what are we going to
do when we all knock off spending thou-
sands of millions per annum on arma-
ments and the armies are disbanded in
their millions? — Hubert Rutter (W.A.).
Cheap at the Price
In the “0.F.M.” column at least three-
fourth of the letters are criticising some
subject or other in which Australian
government is blameworthy.
Do not these writers realise that blun-
dering is the price of democracy, and is
it not a cheap price? One writer finds
a terrific cause for complaint in the late
delivery of an air-mail letter (he appar-
ently wanted a special delivery for his
one letter!); another raises a loud yell
at the size of the humble brownie ; a
blocked drain causes another great
anguish; and a fourth requires a Mini-
ster for Propaganda ; and so go on their
troubles.
Does any one, do any ten, of these things
cause the writers to sleep any the less
soundly? Of course not. Let them turn
back to “Uncabled Additions” and other
reliable overseas news and say a silent
prayer of thanks for living in a democ-
racy. What of Russians, with their thou-
sands and thousands of executions and
their food shortage? Germany’s effi-
ciency! Do any of the grumblers want
to go there? Spain has over a million
dead. China is not news unless its
starving, homeless and dead do not run
to millions.
Blundering democracy, you’ll do me
even if “Seed Gawkins” be printed in
The Bulletin ! —Rex Roylance (Q.).
Sex Equality
Equality of the sexes is one of the
theories dearest to the modern woman’s
heart, yet, like all theories, it is difficult
to put into practice. For, no matter what
feminists say, the fact remains that men
and women never were and never can be
equal.
They are fundamentally different;
their nature is not the same and their
life’s destiny is definitely dissimilar. In
the first place men are physically stronger
than women, and this advantage
naturally affects their mental capabilities.
They have greater staying power, fore-
sight and method than women, and un-
doubtedly can do with ease many tasks
that are (only they won’t admit it) quite
an effort for women.
Yet women are very important in the
general scheme of things, and what they
want to realise is that, although their
work differs from men’s in type, quality
and quantity, its equality lies in its essen-
tial importance. Since the beginning of
time man has been unable to progress
far without woman’s aid, without her
inspiration, companionship, home-making
skill, sympathy, patience and belief in
male ability. It is these undeniable points
that make a woman’s job equal to man’s
in importance.
Wise mothers, eager for the future
happiness of their daughters, will refrain
from giving them too much education
along masculine lines but will stress the
feminine side of things—the side without
which men would flounder. By all means
should women’s work be regarded as
being equal to men’s, but let it be an
equality that is different and feminine.
If ardent but foolish feminists could
realise this there would be less dissatis-
faction and fewer unhappy marriages
among women who are discontented
with their domestic lot simply because
they have been reared with the stupid
idea that they are equal to men and as
such should be doing a man’s job.
The cry for equality is ignorant and
impossible. It should be replaced by a
calm realisation of the need for greater
understanding and appreciation between
the sexes. — P. Radwon (Vic.).
Workers’ Compensation in S.A.
There is a crying need in South Aus-
tralia for the Workmen’s Compensation
Act to be revised. Unless in a lodge or
benefit scheme, the workman meeting
with an accident has to pay all medical
expenses himself. Now this is plainly
the responsibility of the company with
which he is insured, and legislation
should be passed to force the company
to accept it.
Whilst away from work the injured
employee receives only half wages, and
is certainly in no position to meet a
heavy doctor’s-bill. Asa matter of fact,
numerous cases show that where an in-
jury should have been treated by a
specialist the workman has been unable
to procure such treatment because of the
cost involved.
Efforts have been made by interested
persons to persuade Parliament to pass a
bill to this effect, but so far they have
been unsuccessful. Here is an oppor-
tunity for some sufficiently wide-awake
politicians to earn the gratitude and sup-
port of every working man in South
Australia. —R. Ewing (S.A.).
Personalities
Peace is the most important word in
our vocabulary at present, but how rare
the thing itself is!
What do we find in any small town,
village or community? Do we find
people pulling their weight together to
further the interests of the community?
No, we do not. We find the personal
element creeping in all the way along the
line to the detriment of advancement.
For instance, J. Smith and B. Jones
are rival storekeepers who both belong
to the Chamber of Commerce and the
Progress Association. Whatever pro-
gressive movement Smith promotes
Jones is against, and vice versa —not be-
cause the progressive movement does not
appeal, but because of personalities. The
personal note is struck and sustained even
among so small a community. They are
willing to sacrifice individual and collec-
tive benefit for personal spite. If such
a state of affairs exists in such a minute
portion of the globe among people with
common interests, how can we expect a
general peace among nations whose
racial aims and objects are often discord-
ant and even hostile? If a few sup-
posedly right-minded citizens cannot be
taught how great a benefit it would be
to them and to their town if all clashing
claims and rivalry of ambition and all
divergent views were adjusted and modi-
fied, how can we expect any sort of a
brotherhood among nations? S. C. W.
(Q.)
Totalitarian America?
Australia’s interests are linked with no
other country in the world as closely as
with America. It is to the United States
that we look to police the Pacific should
England’s forces be required in Europe.
By a common tie of democracy, we are
bound together. A hostile America is
undreamed of by Australia.
No person has done so much in
strengthening this bond —if not by direct
action towards the Commonwealth, then
by indirect contact through England—as
President Roosevelt. At times we have
come to look upon him as the sole hope
of a peaceful solution to the world’s
troubles. With the reception of the news
that Congress has rejected the bill alter-
ing the Neutrality Act and thus denying
Roosevelt the powers to supply arms to
warring nations at his discretion, we are
apt to criticise Congress as a “responsi-
bility-shirking body.’’
However, by a closer examination of
the facts, and when one adds the rights
that have already been granted to Roose-
velt to this proposed legislation, one real-
ises that with such power he would have
been an unfledged dictator, and with a
few more “feathers” such as this he
might have been a complete dictator.
One does not doubt that Roosevelt’s
motive was excellent; one believes
him to be a sincere and honest man of
simple purpose, working for peace. But
his term in office has only a short while
before expiration, and if a more selfishly
ambitious and ruthless person were elected
in his stead these semi-dictatorial powers
would prove an excellent embarking
place for a totalitarian State —and then
what price Australia, democracy and
peace in the Pacific? —F. B. Oakey
(S.A.).
Keeping Faith
Promises are so easily made and
broken that, unless they are sure of ful-
filment, they should never be made.
Why should the unemployed be forced
to greet the announcement of any effort
to relieve their distress with derision?
The advocate of reforms is always sus-
pected of selfish motives, and advertising
has been exploited to such an extent that
the reactions of the would-be purchaser
are those of ridicule and disbelief.
Political promises are too obvious and
well known for discussion.
Our neighbors who borrow two shil-
lings, a lawnmower, a few nails or a drop
of paint are, in the main, tardy with their
repayments.
All these instances of broken faith are
building up a barrier of distrust that is
becoming harder to break down, and
the world is fast becoming a poorer place
as a result. —W. H. Webber (N.S.W.).
The Snooping Reporter
Rightly or wrongly, a certain species of
newspaper reporter has been described
as the lowest form of animal life.
The description is somewhat harsh,
but there is no denying that snooping
reporters, in the course of duty, are com-
pelled to transgress almost every social
convention dictated by the ethics of re-
finement. To them a confidence is out
of the question, private conversation is
merely an excuse for eavesdropping, and
gate-crashing is the natural thing to do.
They unblushingly exaggerate, miscon-
strue and sometimes entirely distort the
facts to suit the exigencies of the
moment, often causing untold mischief.
The “low-down” is never too low down
for them. What has been called the
freedom of the press is, to them, a liberty
which they exploit to an extent that is
making them increasingly unpopular.
Worst of all, they print their drivel in
the shelter of their newspaper’s policy,
confident in the knowledge that the vic-
tims of their refined form of slander are
quite helpless to retaliate.
It’s high time something was done to
restrain this nuisance.—Mac (N.S.W.).
Communists and Nazis
The Commonwealth Government is
considering the introduction of legislation
for the suppression of “subversive
societies.” Will it have the desired effect.
The Australian Nazis, if they really
exist, are a purely exclusive body, ana
as such their numbers must be limited.
They could not constitute any real
danger as long as they are properly
watched. . .
The Communist party, although it is
by no means exclusive, is not as strong
as its supporters claim it to be. It y e "
ceives most of its support from disillu-
sioned and unemployed youths, dis-
gruntled Laborites and the like. It has
never had an election success, and its
stocks have fallen rapidly since its rebuff
over the national register. It has, how-
ever, a fair following of borderline sup-
porters in decent, hard-working Austra-
lians whose association with it is acti-
vated more by good-humored tolerance
than by any real enthusiasm.
But suppress the Communists and what
would happen? Their borderline sup-
porters have a great sympathy for the
underdog, and the Reds could be relied
upon to play that role to perfection. The
attitude of the borderliners would change
from tolerance to active support, which,
by reason of the underground way in
which it would be forced to function,
would be doubly hard to suppress. The
Reds themselves, as an illegal organisa-
tion, would no longer have to worry
about such a fine point as legal methods
of approach ; they could excuse any use
of force by saying that force was used
on them. And that would not be illo-
gical.
It’s an old axiom that the best way to
popularise a book or a cause is to ban it.
The Government would do well to re-
member it. —Qu.es Tion (Q.).
Dad and Dave
Many'a ripple of amused laughter or
smile has been raised by the somewhat
exaggerated portrayal of the whimsicali-
ties of our more backward country folks.
Why not? Asa countryman who
comes into contact with numerous city
people I have never been given the im-
pression that they consider Dad and
Dave are typical of our rural popula-
tion any more than we imagine that the
products of the slums, often depicted as
“Bill Sikes” or “Pub-corner Joe,” are
realistic pictures of the average town-
dweller.
Steele Rudd did no more than give
publicity to a type that did —and does —
exist. One such mass of six-foot brawn
remarked recently, “This ’ere Bruce ain’t
got any brains.” I left it at that, but
thought of Dad and Dave. —G.B. A.
(N.S.W.).
About Our Wool
The troubles of the woolgrower have
been largely brought about by a blind
and unreasonable attitude towards the
person who really has the final say—the
wearer of woollen clothing. Up to quite
recently anyone with a sensitive skin
could not wear woollen underclothing
next to it on account of the maddening
itching and tickling it caused. Protests
on this ground went unheeded ; manu-
facturers went on turning out the same
old scratchy flannel, and many people
who would have liked to wear wool
were forced to use substitutes. If you
mentioned the subject to anyone in the
trade you were told that no other kind
of stuff could be made and sold cheaply.
To-day woollens are made which even
a baby can wear next to its skin without
discomfort; competition at last forced
the manufacturer to evolve non-irritating
woollen underwear, and at a price which
enables the average person to afford it.
And they wear splendidly ; I buy three
singlets at a time, and they last for
three years, but my wife deserves part
of the credit, for she washes them as
wool should be washed. Every maker
of woollen garments which have to stand
up to frequent washing should enclose
instructions for laundering with every
garment. More woollen underwear is
washed out of existence than ever wears
out.
One of our greatest needs, at present
is stout woollen working clothes in the
form of pants and shirts to replace the
present cotton stuff for outdoor work in
winter. Men in the trade can give no
logical reason why a stout and service-
able yet cheap woollen cloth cannot be
made for use in working clothing, yet
you can ask in vain for reasonably
priced woollen working pants in any
store. At the same; time, when the
Defence Department calls for tenders
for military uniforms the woollen mills
turn out a splendid article at a price
which makes one wonder what is wrong
with the ordinary avenues of distribution.
—Bogaduck (S.A.).


Mainly Mail-Order
Chosen for You by Experts
The R.J.A. LEVER 37/6
Warranted
by the
Federated
Jewellers
Association
of the
Common-
wealth.
710
Send for
free
illustrated
watch and
diamond
ring
catalogue.
DIAMOND
S, WATCH
SPECIALISTS
BjjJz£o*CXht
112 MARKETS!
SYDNEY.
OPR DAVIDJONES
IiCWT. TOMATOES
FROM ONE VINE!
m
AMAZINGLY
PRODUCTIVE!
NOTHING EVER LIKE IT
BEFORE ! In a growing period
of A WHOLE YEAR it climbs
to 20 feet on trellis, fence,
netting. Produces TWO
BUSHELS (FIVE CAS'ES)
choice large red Tomatoes PER
PLANT. 2/6 packet posted.
ALso AMAZING NEW 100 PER CENT. “NON-
ACID” PURE WHITE HEALTH TOMATO!
“White Beauty.” Disease and Drought-proof!
2/6 packet, posted. TIMBER KILLER! Kills
largest trees, ROOTS TO TOP, IN 15 DAYS.
No Ringbarking necessary. 5/6 tin, posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., 17a Pitt Street, Sydney.
DEAF!
New Invention —The NATURTON
—fop natural hearing.
Excellent results —head noises stopped.
The only instrument of its kind with two
separate patented non-electric chambers.
ALMOST INVISIBLE. Inexpensive—
No wires—no batteries. *
Special home trial offer and full par-
ticulars. Cut this out and post it with
your name and address NOW 1
R. A. NOEDL, L.1.8.5.T., Suite 805
T. * G. Building, Park St., SYDNEY
and T. & G. Buildings, Collins St.,
Melbourne.
Tur
HAND!
PUMPLESS
IRON,
Price, 35/-
DEMON
KEROSENE
STOVES.
KRONOS INCANDESCENT BURNERS
for Glass Bowl Lamps, Crude Oil Bath
Heaters. The latest invention. Write
for catalogue.
J. W. SANDS, 387 Lonsdale Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
ż
A Real
Comfort
to Smokers
The Genuine “Cavalier”
Silver-Mounted Briar Pipe
for 5/6. Honest Value, 8/6.
Send 6d. in Stamps for liberal
sample of “lievysown” Quality
Tobacco at 7/- lb. —worth 10/- lb.
—for Cigarette or Pipe.
z
Zig-Zag Papers, 60 leaves packet, 2/4 do*.
Genuine Meerschaum Pipe in its own case
for 17/6; Honest Value, 30/-.
SOL LEVY,
Tobacconist, Est. 38 Yrs.
713 George St., Sydney.
Goods sent C.O.D.
'j desired.
LAMBS SAVED
*-:v
By Using the
DAROUX (Bloodless)
EMASCULATOR
NO OPEN WOUNDS,
FLIES, OR INFECTION
One hand holds Cord—
other hand closes instru-
Brent. 100 p.c. efficient —
Humane —Safe —and as quick as the knife.
Lambs suffer no setback—fatten weeks
earlier. No risk of Infection —No losses.
Don’t judge this instrument by other
machines, TRY A DAROUX!
In Two Sizes: Small, £3/15/-; Large, £4/10/-
From all Agents oi —
DAROUX EMASCULATORS,
74 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
THIS ONE WIRE
/ELECTRIC FENCE
EVERYDAY PROD
188 GEORGE STREET.,SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Parmak Electric Pencer
cuts fencing costs by 80%
. . . holds horses, cattle,
pigs, sheep with one wire.
Harmless. Hundreds in
use. Money back if not
satisfied. Write for details.
elmanism
p
Scientific Training of Mind,
Memory and Personality.
The Pelman System develops personal
attributes and qualities such as:
Self-confld enee
Concentration
Judgment
Decision
Will Power
Social Ease
and a Keliable Memory.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, doscrib
ing Pelmanism, are posted free on request.
The Pelman Institute,
3a Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane, Cr.
Market St., Melbourne. Telephone MU2355.
ź
WINCHESTER
TWIN-SERVICE
HEADLIGHT
LANTERN,
5-CeII, 1500 ft.
Range
35/-
3-cell, 350 ft.
Range ....
Complete with Batteries.
COWLES & DUNN,
71 KINO ST., SYDNEY.
THE HANOMAG DIESEL
TRACTOR
V
The most
e c onomical
tractor o n
the market.
DEMCO MACHINERY CO. Pty., Ltd.,
243 Cleveland St., 355 William St.,
ltedfern, N.S.W. West Melbourne, Vic.
TeAt ftfi 1 Month
/,
■■ . .
mm
mm
Write for Booklet
and PROVE that
VIBRAPHONES defeat
DEAFNESS
A perfectly safe hear-
ing aid. Non-electrical
—Practically invisible—
No wires—No batteries
—No head-bands.
Obtainable direct from new
Sydney consulting room>,
NATHAN
HEARING AIDS
Suite 601 K, City Mutual
Building, cnr. Hunter & Bligh Sts., Sydney;
and at 115 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ItePAGEaWSTDVESL.
OVEN OR
iBUNCALPWShi
WAV'-
POSTED|FREE#i
w////M w///m w//////, '/a
IiPAGEIMFGICDMS;
Musical Instruments
for 37/6
We will send you a BANJO-
MANDOLIN Complete Outfit with
Case, Correspondence Course and
Extra Strings for 37/6.
We guarantee you will be able to
play tunes within 7 days, otherwise
your full money will be returned.
Goods can be sent C.O.D.
THE TALKERIES,
161 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY
BALDNESS
Can Be
CURED!
Years of specialised
training and ex-
perience in treating
all types of bald-
ness have made
Edwin Holland one
of the most famous
Hair Specialists in Australia. Write him
to-day with your hair problems.
S 5»
EDWIN HOLLAND
349 Little Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
G. 8.1.
FOR HARD FINGER and
TOE NAILS 6 6
POSTED FREE FOR CASH.
W.JNO. BAKER
PTY.,
LTD.,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The Cutlery Specialists
The NEO-BARKERE for
NO PADS, NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr. L. Barrere is
the result of 40 years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success of new method
of control.
NO SPRINGS—NO PADS.
The NEO-BARKERE acts like the hand
when placed fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without effort and in all move-
ments hold the intestine in its cavity.
Call or Write To-day for FREE TRIAL.
Barrere Distribution Co. (Dept. 27A)
35 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MAKE YOUR HAIR CURL
WITH
THE ELECTRIC COMB
VITALIZES
THE
mm
INVIGORATES
THE j
SCALP
Il makes the hair grow beautiful and healthy. Gives
that life, resilieance and color so attractive in a
well-groomed head of hair. Harmless and quite simple
to use. For waving hair, there is a Wavy Comb
and tor tonic purposes, a Straight Comb. Complete
with battery and full directions, the prices are as
follows:—WAVY COMB, 3/6 post free, STRAIGHT
COMB, 2/6 post free, extra batteries, ninepence each.
UNION MANUFACTURING & AGENCY CO.
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. C.l.
TARZAN’S GRIP
MENDS ANYTHING
An adhesive compound ready for
immediate use. For fixing and mend-
ing wood, iron, leather, car radiators
and parts, canvas, fabrics, etc. Re-
S 2--
sists moisture, acids,
alkalis, and extreme
heat.
Tarzan’s Grip Manufacturing
Co. Pty., Ltd.,
Willoughby Road,
Willoughby, Sidney.
ALL STORES. 1/-
LEADERS IN TRANSPORT.
JACKSON & JUCHAU
Tariff Advisers,
Customs, Forwarding, Shipping
and Insurance Agents,
13 MACQUARIE ST., SYDNEY.
’Phones: 81234, 87442, 87443.
Melbourne Office:
Gloucester House, Market Street.
Branches and Agencies throughout
Australasia and Abroad.
STOP™ Rupture
comfort
Worries/
One leading Doctor on 3/11/’3B
says:—
“I order your appliances for my
patients because I consider them
preferable to any other type.”
With the improved Roussel Appli-
ance you get greater security and
To prove this we offer
->l4 DAYS FREE TRIAL-
Send name and address for full details and
trial offer. If possible call. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter where you live.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dent. 27), 84 Pitt Street, Sydney.
h
9
Jhe Challenger
KEROSENE Rath-heater
Simple to work—*cheap to
run. Merely turn on water
Bi light the burner for a hot
shower or bath. Write for
descriptive pamphlet—
EVERYDAY PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
188 CEORCE STREET. SYDNEY
w
THE FOUNTAIN
COURT MARKER
Two machines to date have
marked 100,000 COURTS at
N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Associa-
tion Grounds. Machines are'
still going strong.
Has no equal
never will.
Marks a tennis court
in 3 minutes.
Sold at all good
sports stores or
FOUNTAIN COURT
3 Jabez St., Marrickville,
N.S.W. ’Phone: LM4794.
The King
Stockwhip
Hand-plaited with
ISest K a n g a r o o
Thong, S-plait, with
plaited handle to
match . . 19/6
Others from ... 10/6
Write for free illus-
trated catalogue.
ż
NEWMARKET SADDLERY
m emorise ea5E
Memorise With Ease.
Pass Examinations.
Grip Business Facts.
Speak Without Notes.
Master Lodge Ritual.
Command Men and Affairs.
The Stott Centre, 100 Russell Street,
Melbourne. Please forward free book
re the Leeds-Kowlands Method.
Name
Address
S.B.
LAMB
De-Tailer
(I)AROUX PAT.)
A Surgical Instrument for Docking
Lambs. Saves lot of blood by closing
blood _ vessels and glands. Lessens
Infection from Flies or Germs, Heals
Quickly, Reduces Mortality, and
Freezers say improves carcases.
Price, £3/5/-
Send for Pamphlets. Country Agents Wanted.
DAROUX EMASCULATORS,
74 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CHARCOAL GAS
The Minister for Defence has notified the
public that plans have been made for the
substitution in “an emergency” of Charcoal
Gas units on Military Transport equipment
in Australia. WHY WAIT FOB THIS
“E3IERGENCY”?
Any handy man can make his own efficient gas
plant—'from the crude oil drum type to the
latest design—to operate tractors, cars, trucks,
or any type of spark plug engine.
No alterations to the engine are necessary, and
you can run on petrol or charcoal gas at will.
My simple plans and instructions, which can be
purchased for £l, show you how to do the job
cheaply and save 90 p.c. on Fuel Costs.
F. MAHER, 178 O’Connell St., Sydney.
“BULLETIN” SERVICE COUPON
6/9/’39 (See Page 46)
Mr., Mrs. or Miss
Cut this out and send with your “Wants” to the Service Department, “The Bulletin
Office, Sydney or Melbourne.


WELL PAID JOBS
ž
FOR DIESEL
OPERATORS
.. . Trained by the Diesel Engineering College
Read These Typical Examples: —
BIG CHANGE
OVER TO DIESEL
MORE OPERATORS WANTED.
To-day is the Diesel Age!
All branches of industry report a swing to
Diesel engines due to the greater economy of
this modern power.
Many truck manufacturers report that the
bulk of their output is now Diesel, while more
and more Diesel-powered buses are being
placed in service every month. Because of its
greater economy, moreover, a large number
of factories, mines and power plants are
changing over to Diesel.
Trained Diesel men are needed everywhere
to operate and maintain these Diesel engines.
FILE No. 34a. OBTAINED POSITION 28/3/’39. WAGES £7 PER WEEK.
Formerly earning £4/5/- per week. Commenced training June, 1938. Received Diesel Engineering
College Diploma February, 1939. Obtained above position 28/3/’39.
FILE No. 35a. OBTAINED POSITION 5/6/’39. SALARY £3O PER MONTH
AND KEEP. Completely trained by the Diesel Engineering College. Appointed Diesel 2nd
Engineer, Island Vessel, 5/6/’39.
FILE No. 36a. OBTAINED POSITION 29/6/’39. SALARY £9 PER WEEK.
As Diesel salesman. Had no former engineering knowledge. Completely trained by the Diesel
Engineering College.
YOU
Can Qualify As a
Diesel Operator In Your
Spare Time At Home
You don’t need any previous knowledge of engineering and you don’t need any high educational
standard. The Diesel Engineering College course teaches you the whole subject, covering both
transport Diesel (tractors, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel (mining and other power plants).
The course has been prepared with the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the
Diploma awarded you on completion is recognised by employers all over Australia. Post the
coupon below and full details will be sent you by return.
I
This College does not sell you a pile of textbooks and leave you to wade
through them, nor does it fill you up with a lot of complicated mathematics.
It teaches you just what you need to know to operate and service Diesel
engines efficiently. As soon as you enrol, practical coaches take you in
hand. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-followed
instruction papers and diagrams. Everything is made clear. You’ll be
amazed to find how quickly you become familiar with the workings of
the Diesel. Many students have qualified for positions in as short a period
as four months. The fees are low and payments easy.
z
z
orts of the Diesel Engineering College are
A wonderful future lies ahead in Diesel engineering for ambitious men who get in early with the proper training.
But you must be properly trained. The success of Diesel Engineering College students at Government examinations
tells its own story of the thoroughness of training at this College.
ź
ż
ž
D !!i*«« CINKt
Those who get in early reach
the top first. Tear off and post
this coupon now for the free
booklet describing the Diesel
Engineering College course. There is no obli-
gation, so don’t put it off! The best intentions
in the world are useless if you don’t ACT!
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE
Dept 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the Diesel
Engineering College course.
NAME
ADDRESS
B. 6/9/’39.
DIESEL ENGINEERING C O Lj-j^G_E
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
IRISBAN!
PERTH
